
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 







x,JJ>yj^^ 



X 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC 
AND DYNAMO-ELECTRIC 

MACHINES: 



THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND PRACTICAL APPLICATION TO 
ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND THE TRANSMISSION 

pF POWER. 

. ■ <~ 

By Dr. H: SCHELLEN, 

DIKSOTOB OF THB BBAL-OTlDIAniTK AT OOIXMHB, XTO., ITO.; 

▲rTHOB OF "DEB BLEOTBO-MAammSGBB TXLBOBAFH ; " **DXB BFBOTBAL-AHAXiTBB ; '* 

*« DIB BOHUUI DBB BUHnEHTABrHXOHAKXK UND lUBOHUCBNLBHBB.*' 



Tbansulted from the Third German Edition, 

BY 

NATHANIEL S. KEITH and PERCY NEYMANN, Ph.D. 

WiTM Vest Laros ADDiTioNa and Notes 
Relating to American Machines, 



NATHANIEL S. KEITH, 

Secntary 0/ Tht Amtrican Itutitutt 0/ EUctrical Engineers: and EdiUr 0/ 
Scientific Department 0/ ** The Electrical Werld:^ 



Vol. I. 

WITH 868 ILLUSTRATIONS. 



NEW YORK: 

D. VAN NOSTRAND, PUBLISHER. 

28 MintBAT Ain> 37 Wabbbn Stb. 
1884. 



Copyright, 1884, by D, Van Nostrand. 



SMin * MCDOIWAL, EuMnOtTPSM, 

nBMkiiiM8t.,K.Y. 



Ii-'it>l. 




[^'\lX%o\ 



DR. SCHELLEN'S PREFACE. 



"TTTE believe we cannot introduce this new edition any 
^ ^ better than by referring to the preface of the second 
edition, in which we gave an historical account of the evo- 
lution of magneto and dynamo-electric machines. 

The enormous progress which the application of these 
machines to illimiinating purposes and transmission of 
power has made, was shown in the most elaborate manner 
at the electrical exhibitions of London, Paris, Munich, and 
Vienna. 

A large number of machines for the production of elec- 
tric light, and numerous electric lamps of all kinds, were 
shown to the wondering spectator; and proved that the 
electric light has now extensive application for the illumi- 
nation of public squares, of streets, railroad depots, dwell-* 
ings and factories. 

Besides the production of electric light, the electric 
transmission of power attracted the visitors' attention. 
The motors, affording the necessary driving power, i. e., 
the gas or steam engines, were, previous to this time, set 
up near the illuminating machine. The water power of the 
river Tsar at Munich was made use of by means of enor- 
mous turbines, originally built and employed for an entirely 
different purpose. This water power was caught at a long 
distance from where it was actually made use of, was 
transformed into electricity, and was then conducted by 
means of long wires to a distant point, where it was made 
use of for numerous illuminating and working purposes. 

With such great progress of electro-technical science in 



4 DR. schbllbn's prbfacb. 

the fields mentioned^ it not only becomes a pressing desire 
of the professional, but of the intelligent public in general, 
to become familiar with the application of electricity in the 
various technical branches, and to inform itself as to its 
progress and new inventions. 

Hence the desire for information on the part of profes- 
sional circles and the educated public must be supplied by 
books which start out in an easily imderstood manner from 
the fundamental principles of electricity, and thus enable a 
large circle to understand these matters. That this want is 
supplied by our work in a very satisfactory manner is 
proven by the rapid succession of the two first editions. 

When this edition was taken in hand, it was evident 
from the beginning that the material to be mastered in the 
time between the Munich and the Vienna exhibitions was 
too much of all kinds, and it became more so as the desires 
of mechanics and of the author were alike to abolish the 
popular character of the previous editions of the book, and, 
while retaining the simplicity of demonstration, to assume 
a more scientific and technical treatment of the material. 
This carrying of this proposition into effect in the new 
edition was materially aided by Dr, Victor Wietlisbachy 
lecturer on technical electricity at the Polytechnic of 
Zurich, who, by reason of his works for various electrical 
magazines, and as director of the Zurich Telephone Com- 
pany, seemed likely to be sufficiently experienced in the 
subject in general to assist and improve the present work. 

We can therefore mention as a material alteration and 
improvement which distinguishes this edition, that the 
units of measure, decided upon at the Paris Convention and 
now uniformly adopted, and also the various mechanical 
contrivances (FoK-meter, Ampire-meteT, Electro-dyna- 
mometer, measures of consumption of electricity) have 
been taken up, and their use in practical measurements 
fully discussed. 



DB. SCHELLEN*S PBBFACE. 5 

That all details of construction in regard to data about 
machines^ lamps and their perf ormances, have been given 
in the new electric units is self-evident. 

In the first editions of the work the novelty of the sub- 
ject and often as well the secrets retained by the inventors 
and constructors gave rise to irregularities of data and to 
incomplete illustrations. 

The author was, therefore, with the aid of his co-worker, 
bent upon removing all irregularities and doubts of this 
kind, by personal investigation and measurements, when- 
ever possible to collect exact data. The figures and measure- 
ments so obtained are f oimd in a series of most important 
tables, partly distributed through the book and partly at 
the end of the book in a separate appendix. 

The understanding of the various dynamo-electric ma- 
chines is materially aided by introducing a classification 
of the same and by referring to a few fundamental types, 
among which the now much employed compound machine, 
which created so much attention at the Vienna exhibition, 
has been considered. 

On account of the great importance of the so-called 
large machines (Grossmachinen), especial care has been 
bestowed upon their construction and working power in 
this new edition ; we mention in this respect only the large 
machines of Edison, Ferranti, Thomson, Oordon, Brush, 
Weston, and others. 

The arc light and also the incandescent light descrip- 
tions have been entirely revised ; the Edison system espe- 
cially has received an account corresponding to the latest 
communications of all details in theoretical and practical 
respects. 

The latest experiences in the way of the important ques- 
tions of canalization of electricity and the electrical transfer 
of power have received no less detailed consideration by 
publication of the theories of Dr.sFroelich bxl& Marcel Deprez. 



6 DB. SCHBLLEN'S PREFACE. 

It is cleax that it could only be possible to give the new- 
edition of this book the valuable contents and numerous 
illustrations (their number being almost doubled) if the 
author could coimt upon a large circle of scientists and 
mechanics who would concede to his wishes in the widest 
manner. 

We have not been disappointed in this respect, and 
therefore fulfill our pleasant duty of thanking all those 
most warmly who by their material aid have helped com- 
pile this work. Thanks are especially due to my co-worker 
Dr. V. Wietlishach, who with untiring zeal performed the 
work intrusted to him. 

We moreover express our thanks to those scientists and 
technical societies who have so materially aided us by com- 
municating the results of their labors — among which are 
in the first instance, the privy chancellor Dr. W . Siemens, 
Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, the German Edison Com- 
pany, the companies of th^ U. S. Electric Lighting Co., 
the Fuller Electrical Co., the Brush Electric Co., the 
Levett'Muller Electric Light Co., etc. These thanks are not 
less due to the publisher, who has watched the most careful 
typographical work with restless care. May the third 
edition find the same appreciation which was so richly 
bestowed upon the previous ones. 

THE AUTHOR. 

Cologne, Nov. 1888. 



EDITOR'S PREFACE. 



"TTXE need not apologize for translating Dr. Schellen's 
^ ^ work. The favor with which it has been received 
by those who read the Gterman language, and its plain and 
simple style of explanation, induced us to begin trans- 
lating it for the American readers and students in elec- 
tricity, while yet in its first edition. Owing to unavoidable 
delays we did not complete the translation until the an- 
nouncement of the third and last German edition. Mean- 
time we had accumulated data relating to American elec- 
tric machines, which we could with advantage add to the 
descriptions of Dr. Schellen. But he had likewise increased 
his fund of information, so that in issuing the third edition 
he was obliged to divide his book into two volumes. We 
have done the same ; making, as he has, the first volume 
treat only upon apparatus for generating electric currents, 
and for measuring the currents so generated, and their 
effects. 

We have added descriptions of many dynamos and allied 
apparatus made and extensively used in this country. Some 
of these machines were not mentioned in the German work ; 
but they demanded notice because of their novelty, eflS- 
ciency, or notoriety. We have also more fully set forth the 
features of construction, operation, and qualities of some of 
those described in the original. 

We acknowledge our indebtedness to Messrs. Thomas A. 
Edison, Edward Weston, Charles F. Brush, William Hoch- 
hausen, Leonard E. Curtis, C. O. Mailloux, James J. Wood, 



8 editor's preface. 

Prof. Henry Morton, Prof. Moses G. Farmer, and Prof. Elihu 
Thomson ; and to The Brush Electric Co., of Cleveland, 0.; 
the Excelsior Electric Co., of New York ; the Fuller Elec- 
trical Co., of New York; the Gramme Electrical Co., of 
New York; the Rend-rock Powder Co.> of New York ; the 
Thomson-Houston Electric Co., of Boston; the McTighe 
Electric Light and M'fg Co., of Pittsburgh; the United 
States Electric Lighting Co., of New York; and to The 
Electrical World, for information and assistance so cheer- 
fully furnished to us in our work. 

The object of our notes upon Dr. Schellen's text is to 
endeavor to make clear that which we could not agree 
with, and to supplement his descriptions for the possible 
advantage of the reader. This has not been done dog- 
matically, but with a sincere desire to help the reader. If 
we have made mistakes in these matters, they have come 
from the head and hand, not the heart. 

The reader may complain that we have not considered 
some particular ojie of the many machines which have been 
or are in use. If so, we answer in advance : To describe 
all of the dynamo-electric and magneto-electric machines 
which have taken name up to the present would require a 
book many times as large as this, and with a tiresome 
repetition of description having only slight variations. 

A change of a screw here, a shaft there, an alteration of 
field-magnets, a long or a short armature, in endless 
variety, does not make a new machine, though a new 
name may be given it. 

We have considered nearly all of the most prominent of 
the machines which have been, or are now made. They 
suffice to illustrate the subject. As others come to the 
front we shall be pleased to illustrate and describe them in 
future editions. 

The subject is a live and a growing one. New features 
are constantly being developed, and the morrow may bring 



editor's preface. 9 

forth that which may further astonish the world, judging 
by that which has been accomplished within the past five 
years. But, if our theories are correct, the only improve- 
ments likely to be made are those relating to details of con- 
struction on the road to perfection. 

With these few words of explanation, we commit our 
work to the kind indulgence of our readers. 

N. S. KEITH. 
New York, July, 1884. 



CONTENTS, 



PART I. 

PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 
ntyacoK PAoa 

1. The Electro-Magnet 15 

2. Action of a Magnet on Soft Iron 17 

8. Magnetic Field ; Lines of Magnetic Force. 19 

4. Ampere's Solenoid 28 

5. Reciprocal Action of Gkilyanic Currents on each other 26 

6. Qalvanic Induction 80 

7. Dynamic Induction 84 

8. Magnetic Induction 86 

9. Movement of a Magnet towards a Closed Wire Ring 87 

10. Rotation of a Ring haying a Continuous Coil of Wire on it between 

the Poles of a Magnet ; Gramme Ring. 88 

11. Rotation of an Armature oyer the Poles of a Magnet 51 

12. The Magnetic Field of Force 58 

PART II. 

THE METHODS OP ELECTRIC MEASUREMENTS AND MEAS- 
URING INSTRUMENTS. 

18. Electrical Energy 59 

14. Ayrton & Perry's Dynamometer 61 

15. Yon Hefoer-Alteneck's Dynamometer. 68 

16. The Brake Dynamometer 67 

17. The Kent Dynamometer 67 

18. The Bracket Dynamometer 71 

19. Register of Rotations 74 



12 CONTENTS. 

SICnON PAOK 

20. Ohm's Law and the Units of Electric Measurement 75 

21. Electro-Dynamometer made by Siemens & Halske 7& 

22. The Galvanometers (Ammeter and Voltmeter) of Ayrton & Perry 

and Deprez 79 

28. Siemens & Halske's Torsion Galvanometer 84 

24. Edison's Registering Apparatus. 85 

25. The Electric Dynamometer. 88 

26. Measurement of Light 90 

27. Division of Current 95- 



PART III. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

28. The Magneto-Electric Machines of Pixii, Saxton & Clarke 99^ 

29. Stohrer's M^rneto-Electric Machine 102- 

80. The large Magneto -Electric Machines of the Sod^t^ 1' Alliance and 

Holmes. 104 

81. The Siemens Armature 110 

82. Wilde's Magneto-Electric Machine 114 

88. Deprez's Magneto-Electric Machine 118 

84. The De Meritens Machine 120 

PART IV. 

DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

85. Siemens' Principle of Dynamo-Electric Machines, and the claims of 

others on that point • 129 

86. Siemens' Dynamo-Electric Machine 146 

87. Siemens & Halske's Dynamo-Electric Alarm and Mine Exploder 149 

88. Smith's Electric Blasting Machine 15^ 

89. Ladd's Two-Armature D3rnamo-Electric Machine 154 

40. Siemens & Halske's Two-Armature Dynamo-Electric Machine 159 

41. Hochhausen*s Dynamo-Electric Machine for Galvanoplastic Purposes 160 

42. Weston's Dynamo-Electric Machine for Galvanoplastic I^irposes. . . . 164 
48. Mohring and Baur's Dynamo-Electric Machine 167 

44. The Brush Light Machine 169 

45. The Thomson Spherical-Armature Dynamo-Electric Machine 189 



CONTENTS. 13 



PART V. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC AND DYNAMOuELECTRIC MACHINES FOR 
THE PRODUCTION OF CONTINUOUS CURRENTS. 

BSOTXOH PAOB 

46. Paciimoti-8 Ring Machine 204 

47. The Elias Machine and that of Worms de Romilly 219 

48. Constniction of the Gramme Annatare 221 

49. The Gramme Machine 225 

60. The Gramme Machine for Hand or Foot-Power 229 

51. The Gramme Laige Dynamo-Electric Machine for Galvanoplastic 

Purposes 281 

52. Gramme Large Dynamo-Electric Machines for Electric Light. . . 235 

58. The Fuller-Gramme Machine 244 

54. Machines for the Transmission of Power by Electricity 252 

55. The McTighe Machine 255 

56. The Edison-Gramme Machine 261 

57. Deficiencies of the Gramme Machine 264 

58. Fein's Dynamo-Electric Machine 269 

59. Schuckert's Dynamo-Electric Machine 271 

60. The Hochliausen Machines 279 

61. The Canallizcd-Ring Armature of Heinrich^s 298 

62. Fitzgerald's Machine. 299 

68. The Gulcher Machine 801 

64. Siemens & Halske's Magneto and Dynamo-Electric Cylinder Machines, 

System v. Hefber-Alteneck 808 

65. The Siemens-Halske Small Machines for Laboratory Purposes 806 

66. Siemens-Halske Dynamo-Electric Machines for Electric Illumination 

and Galvanic Deposition 811 

67. Siemens &Halske*s Dynamo-Electric Machines for Purifying Metals. 818 
Hochhausen's and Edison's Machines for the same uses. 821 

68. The Weston Electric Light Machines 821 

69. Maxim's Machine 846 

70. The Edison Dynamo-Electric Machines 848 

71. Juigensen's Machine 867 

72. Weston's Central-Magnet Machine 869 

78. Weston's Stationary-Armature Machine 875 

74. Niaudet's Magneto-Electric Machine 880 



14 CONTENTS. 

■BOTIOK PAGB 

75. The Wallace-Farmer Light Machine 882 

76. Lontin's Djnamo-Electric Machine 884 

77. Burgin*8 Dynamo-Electric Blachine 886 

78. Hefiier-Alteneck^s Latest Dynamo-Electric Machine 890 

79. Arago Disk-Armature Dynamo 896 

PART VI. 

LATER ALTERNATINO CURRENT MACHINES FOR THE PRO- 
DUCTION OF SEVERAL CURRENTS. 

80. Lontin*8 Alternating-Current Machines 401 

81. Qramme's Machine for Alternating Currents 405 

82. The Jablochkoff Machine for Alternating Currents 414 

88. Siemens & Halske's Alternating-Current Machine 416 

84. The Levett-Muller Machine 422 

85. The Lachaussde Machine 424 

86. Gordon's Alternating-Current Machine 426 

87. The Ferranti-Thomson Alternating-Current Machine 438 

88. Edison's Disk Machines 437 

89. Edison's Magneto-Electric Machine 445 

90. Hochhausen's Disk Machines 451 

91. The Elphinstone and Vincent Machine 454 

92. The Unipolar Machine 455 

PART VII. 

THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

98. Proportions for Dynamo-Electric Equilibrium 459 

94. Testing the Equation of Equilibrium 461 

95. Deduction from the Main Equation 464 

96. Dependence of the Effective Magnetism on Strength of Current 467 

97. Comparison of Dynamo-Electric with Magneto-Electric Machines . . 471 

98. Marcel Deprez's Characteristic Curve 475 

99. The Theory of Dynamo Machines 477 

100. Machines with Separated Currents 479 

101. Dynamo Machines of Constant Electromotive Force 481 

102. Combination, or Compound Machines 488 

108. Classification of Dynamo-Electric Machines ; 491 

104. Collectors 501 



PART I. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



FlG.l 




A B 

EUUro- Magnet, 



1 • rFhe Eleetro-magnet. A piece of soft iron, 
AB (Fig. 1) has the property of becoming a magnet when a 
galvanic current 
flows m a wire, 
' C, encircling it in 
a direction per- 
pendicular to its 
length. Gener- 
ally, in practice, 
this piece of soft 
iron is made to 
take somewhat 
the shape of a horseshoe, and 
is wound with insulated cop- 
per wire in spiral convolu- 
tions as nearly perpendicular 
as possible to the iron core, 
in such manner as to have 
the convolutions take the 
same direction on both limbs 
of the horseshoe, supposing 
it to be a straight piece. The EUctro-Magnet wm Armatur.. 

copper wires are insulated by being covered with threads 
of silk, cotton, or other fibrous, non-conducting material. 
If the ends of the wire coils be connected with the poles 
of a galvanic battery, the iron will become strongly mag* 




16 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

netic, and continue so during the continuanoe of the cur- 
rent. One end of the core will have north and the other 
south polarity. 

The core and coils AB (Fig. 2) constitute an electro 
magnet ; that piece of iron, D, which is attracted by the 
poles of the magnet is called an armature. 

The following rule serves for the determination of the 
respective polarities of the two limbs of the magnet. Con- 
sider the wire in which the current flows as pendant before 
the observer, the lower end connected with the positive pole 
of the battery, and the current flowing upward; then, if the 
core is at the left of the wire the end pointing to the observer 
is the north pole and the other the south pole. The reverse 
is the case if the core is at the right of the wire. 

Another rule : Consider the end of the electro-magnet 
turned toward the observer; if the wire proceeding from the 
positive pole of the battery has the direction of the hands of 
a clock, i. e,, over toward the right, that end is the south pole 
and the other the north. If the wire has the reverse direc- 
tion the ends of the core have the reverse polarities. 

The strength of the magnetism is dependent upon several 
conditions : such as the quantity of iron in the core, the 
number of convolutions of the wire, and the quantity of 
galvanic current flowing in the wire. The magnetism 
ceases almost entirely on discontinuing the current. 

By rapidly making and breaking the galvanic circuit, 
thus allowing a current to flow and cease, alternately, in 
the wire coil, the core is with the same rapidity magnetized 
and demagnetized. By changing the direction of the cur- 
rent, or in other words changing the ends of the wire coils 
from pole to pole of the battery, which can be done by hand, 
or in case of regular or rapid change by an instrument 
called a commutator, the poles will assume successively 
opposite polarities, depending upon the direction of tKe 
current from the positive pole of the battery, as before 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 17 

noted. The nearer pure and the softer the iron the 
stronger is the magnetism produced in it by the current ; 
and the more nearly completely does it lose it on stopping. 

Some time is always necessary, however short, before 
the magnetism can reach its maximum, and a correspond- 
ing time is taken in resuming its previous non-magnetic 
condition. This latter term, however, is merely relative, 
as experience has shown that iron which has once been 
magnetized does not, under ordinary circumstances, lose 
its magnetism completely. This remaining magnetism is 
called residual. 

2. Action of* a, IMCa^g-net on Soil Iron. 

[Magnetic Division, or Magnetic Induction.] If a piece of 
soft iron, s n, Fig. 3, be brought near the pole -^ of a 
magnet, it will become magnetic by the influence of the 
magnet S N. The end of the piece of soft iron nearest the 
magnetic pole will assume opposite polarity, while the 
other end will have the same polarity as the pole of the 
magnet. This pheno];nenon is called magnetic division.* 
The soft iron, however, only 
retains its polarity while un- 
der the influence, i. e., within 
the sphere of action of the 
influencing magnet. If it be 
removed from the field of 
magnetic force it loses the ,^ .,,... 

Magiuttc DtvutoM. 

induced magnetism ; and the 

more rapidly and completely the purer and softer the iron is. 
If the bar of iron, s n, be moved upward by the pole Ny of 
the magnet, the south pole s of the bar will be displaced 
and move along the bar as it is raised, so that when the 

*The expression "magnetic induction/' or '* magnet induction," we shall 
only use in the case where galvanic corrents are induced hj a magnet. 



18 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



lower end comes opposite the N pole of the magnet, it will 
have south polarity, and the end which formerly had south 
will have north polarity. If, as in Fig, 4, a soft iron ring 
be placed so that it may rotate on its axis between the 
poles N and S of a, horseshoe magnet, there will be gener- 
ated in the ring opposite poles, on a line joining the two 
poles of the magnet, passing across the ring as shown at 
n s; while at points on the ring 90° distant, O O', the two 
magnetic polarities neutralize each other. 

Fig. 4. 




Dis/^Jitcement of the Poles in a Rotating Ring. 

If the ring be rotated the poles n s retain their same po- 
sition between the poles of the influencing magnet, but 
move along the ring opposite to the direction of rotation, 
and at equal speed. So, in effect, the polarities of the ring^ 
move progressively in it, but the poles and neutral line 
00' always retain the same position in space. 

This matter is changed somewhat if the ring be rotated 
rapidly. The induced magnetism does not disappear im- 
mediately from the parts of the ring as they recede from 
the magnet poles N and S. Take a part of the ring 
approaching N ; it rapidly acquires magnetism as this part 
comes under N, but it does not as rapidly lose it in passing 
from 8 to O', by reason of the greater length of time re- 
quisite to discharge. From about the neutral point O' to 
the next pole S, a rapid increase in magnetism again takes 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 19 

place, which is somewhat retained as before, and then 
gradually decreases to zero at about O. It will be seen 
from this that the points of strongest magnetic intensity are 
not directly on the line from N to 8, but that the magnetism 
is somewhat spread in the direction of the circumference 
of the ring, and that from s to O', and from n to O, length- 
ened poles, so to speak, are formed. In consequence of 
this the line of neutrality O O' is not at 90"* exactly from 
the magnet poles N S, but somewhat in advance of that 
line in the direction of the rotation of the ring. 

Fig. 6. 




Magnetic Lints of Force. 

3. The TMCagrnetic Field; the X^ines of 
IMagnetie Force. The external action of a magnet 
depends upon many circumstances, but has an extent 
according to the strength of the magnetization and the 
form of the magnet, to an indefinite distance from the 
magnet in all directions, and with varying degrees of 
intensity. The area of magnetic activity of the poles of a 



20 



DYKAMO-RLECTRIC MACHINES. 



magnet is called the sphere of activity of the pole, or sim- 
ply the magnetic field; although strictly speaking the 



Fig. 6. 




Magnetic Lints of Force of both FoUs of a Bar Magtui, 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



21 



Fio.7. 



latter term conveys another meaning. [It is also called 
the field of force.— K.] 

The influence ex- 
plained in § 2 mani- 
fests itself only when 
the bar 5 n (Fig. 3) is 
in the magnetic field 
of the inducing mag- 
net S N. When the 
bar is within this field 
and the magnetic at- 
traction exceeds the 
weight of the bar s n, 
and it is free to move, 
then it will move to- 
ward the magnet S N. 
A second small bar of 
soft iron, if brought 
near the pole n, will 
also be influenced so 
powerfully that the 
magnetic attraction 
will become greater 
than the weight of 
the bar. In this man- 
ner one can proceed to 
attach more smaller 
bars. 

The magnetic influence is also exerted through neutral 
bodies, as, for instance, glass plates, pasteboard, etc. If a 
plate of such material is sprinkled with iron filings and it 
is approached by either pole of an ordinary bar magnet 
from below, imtil in contact, the filings will arrange them- 
selves as is represented in Fig. 5, According to this the 
individual particles of iron may be considered as easily 




Magnttic Lines of Force of two Parallel Magnets. 



22 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



Fig. 8. 






!■ 




movable magnetic bars which arrange themselves in reg- 
ular curves. As the 
line from pole to 
pole of each one of 
these minute bars 
assumes a position 
parallel to the mag- 
netic lines of force 
of the magnet, they 
may be said to map 
out or define those 
lines, and to repre- 
sent graphically the 
lines of force of the 
N and S poles of the 
magnet. 

In the illustra- 
tions (Fig. 5 and 6) 
the lines are bound- 
ed by the limits of 
the engraving, but 
all represent sec- 
tions of closed lines, 
some of which ex- 
tend indefinitely in 
space. When two 
or more magnetic 
bars are placed in 
neighborhood, the lines of force are modified in direction. 
When two bars are placed with their opposite poles near 
together under the plate, the lines of force shown by the 
arrangement of the filings are as shown in Fig. 7. A 
materially different picture is shown in Fig. 8, where like 
poles of two bar magnets are placed near together under 
the plate. The form of the curves in the illustrations is due 







Ma£Metic Lines of Force of two ParcUlel Magnets. 



PBELIMINABY PHYSICS. 



to obedience of the law under which magnetic attraction 
exists: — ''like poles repel, and unlike poles attract each 
other." Fig. 9 shows the lines due to one pole of a bar 
magnet when a smaller piece of iron is near it. 

[The method pursued in making and fixing such mag- 
netic spectra is explained in § 12, p. 55. —K.] 

Fig. 9. 




Magnetic Lints oj Force, liar Magput and Piece of Iron, 

4t. ^mp&i-e's Solenoid. The Steel Magnet as 
a System, or SerieSy of Oalvanic Currents. Two galvanic 
currents act like two magnets, attracting or repelling each 



u 



DTNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



IJTITTJTJTTTnmf 



Amph'f's Solenoid, 



FiQ. 10a. 



other according to their directions. A simple wire helix, 
(Fig. 10a), whose convolutions are perpendicular to its 
length, behaves like a steel magnet when a galvanic cur- 
rent passes through it. If such a 
Fig. 10. spiral of copper wire (Fig, 10) be sus- 

■r% pended by its upturned ends in two 

"nj cups containing mercury, so that 

J it can easily turn, and if the mer- 

. ^ Jl, ^ ^ cury of the cups be connected with 
the poles of a galvanic battery, so 
that a current passes through the 
wire spiral, the spiral will show all 
the properties of a common steel 
magnet ; it has north and south poles, and takes its posi- 
tion in the plane of the meridian, pointing very nearly 
north and south like a magnetic needle. 
If two such spirals are placed in proxim- 
ity, the like named poles repel, and the 
unlike poles attract each other ; the polar- 
ity of the ends is determined by the rules 
given in 1. Ampere, to whom we are in- 
debted for the main rules of electro- 
dynamics, termed such a spiral, through 
A Helical Current. wMch a galvaulc curreut passes, a sole- 
noid. 
The action of a galvanic current flowing in a wire 
wound spirally around a bar of iron, as is shown in Fig. 1, 
upon the iron, and the like properties shown by the sole- 
noid, led Ampere to a new idea as to the nature of a steel 
magnet. According to his theory every molecule of a 
magnet is regarded as being encircled by a galvanic cur- 
rent which returns to itself. All these elementary currents 
are infinitely small, infinitely close together, and all have 
the same direction, which is perpendicular to one line, the 
axis of the magnet. This idea is shown in Fig. 11, which 




PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



25 



Fni.U. 




MoUcular Current*. 



Fig. 1«. 




represents a section perpendicular to the 
axis of a magnetic core. The directions of 
these Amp^rean currents in every two ad- 
joining molecules are opposite at all tangent 
points, and hence neutralize each other. 
Therefore it will be seen that only the cur- 
rents of the exterior molecules are eflEective 
in producing magnetism. Instead of a 
single molecular current circulating in 
every part of the steel core, there is a cur- 
rent circulating in the exterior molecules which is the result 
of the action and reaction of the currents due to all the 
molecules. 

If we adopt Ampire^a idea 
of the nature of a magnet it is 
conclusive that it is a number 
of closed series of single gal- 
vanic currents parallel to one 
another, and flowing in the 

same direction ; which is that taken by the hands of a watch 
when the south pole is turned towards the observer. This is 
shown by Figs. 12 and 12a. If the north 
pole be turned toward the observer the 
currents will evidently circulate in a 
direction opposite that of the hands of a 
watch. 

Notwithstanding the similarity be- 
tween the solenoids and magnets, they 
differ in their action in so far that the 
poles of a solenoid are the extreme ends, while those of the 
magnets are somewhat distant from the ends towards the 
body of the magnet. This is due to the assistance which 
the small closed circuits afford one another. The more 
nearly the form of the magnet approaches that of a thread, 
thereby approximating the small, elementary, molecular 
2 



TA€ system of Gaivanic Currents in a 
Steel Magnet. 



Fie. 12a. 




^6 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

currents, the nearer the poles are to the ends. The later 
investigations of Oaugain have shown that other differ- 
ences exist between solenoids and magnets ; that in order 
to apply the theory of the action of the currents to that of 
solenoids the magnets must be considered as solenoids, or 
systems of currents, which are at equal distances from one 
another, but their intensities varying according to a fixed 
law. Or, they may be considered systems of currents all 
having the same intensity, combined in a single current, 
the convolutions of which are at unequal distances from 
one another, varying under a fixed law. 

S. Hecipr^ocal A-ction of G-alvanic 
Ciiirreiits on ea.cli other*. Attraction of an 
Iron Bar by a Solenoid. After it had been established that 
a magnet acts like a solenoid, and as two magnets or two 
solenoids have attraction or repulsion for each other, it was 
to be expected that two galvanic currents would attract or 
repel each other according to their relative directions. 
Ampere discovered the following laws governing electro- 
dynamic actions : 

1. Parallel currents having the same direction attract 
each other. 

2. Parallel currents having opposite directions repel 
each other. 

3. Currents not parallel (crossing each other) have the 
tendency to run parallel and in the same direction. 

That the two first laws correspond to the fundamental 
law of magnetism, *' opposite poles attract and like poles 
repel each other,'' is shown in the previous section, and 
graphically in Fig. 13. 

According to these same laws it follows that a solenoid 
must attract and draw into itself an iron bar, if the bar is 
freely movable along the axis of the solenoid, and if the 
attraction is greater than the resistance offered by the bar 



PRELIMINABY PHYSICS. 



27 



Fl«. 18. 




Sittl Magnets as Systems e/GeUvanic 
Currents. 



to motion, such as from gravity. That is to say, when 
brought sufficiently near to the solenoid the bar will be 
influenced by the same, and in consequence currents paral- 
lel to themselves will be in- 
duced in the bar, having the 
same direction as the current in 
the solenoid. If we consider 
this current in the solenoid as 
a system of currents parallel to 
themselves and of the same di- 
rection we will see the similarity 
between solenoid and magnet 
currents. The attraction be- 
tween the solenoid currents in 
wire and bar are exactly neutralized when the bar has 
assumed a central position within the solenoid, but at once 
becomes active if the bar be moved outward at either end. 
So the influence is exerted to keep the bar at the central 
position. For illustration, if we imagine a solenoid and a 
bar of nearly the same size, divided into, say, ten equal 
parts, and the bar within the solenoid, so that the several 
divisions of each are on the same planes, the mutual at- 
tractions are balanced. Now, if, for further consideration, 
we call the currents above the centre +, and those below 
the. center — , and designate the currents by fc, and their 
attractive forces by the nimibers shown opposite the divi- 
sions of bar and solenoid in Fig. 14, then we can construct 
the following table to show the magnitude of attraction 
at each of the 10 stages of movement of the bar toward 
and within the solenoid. See Fig. 14 and 14a for the 
graphic illustration. 



28 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

0. 5fc + 4fc + 3fc + 2fc + A: = 15k. 

1. 6k + 5k + 4k + Sk + 2k = 19k. ' 
II. {bk — k) + 5k + 5k + 4k + dk + 2k + k = Z4k. 

III. {5k - 2k) + {5k -k) + 5k + 5k + ik + Sk+2k+k=27k. 

IV. {5k - 3fc) + {5k - 2k) + {5k — k) + 5k + 5k + 4k + Sk 

+ 2k + k = 29k. 
V. {5k — 4k) + (5fc — 3fc) + (6fc-2fc) + (5fc-A:) + 6fc + 6& 

+ 4fc + 3fc + 2fc +fc = 30fc. 
VI. {4k — 6fc) + {5k - 4fc) + (5fc — 3A:) + {5k - 2fc) + (Sfc-A:) 

+ 6fc + 5& + 4ft + 3fc + 2fc = 28fc. 
VII. (3A: - 6Jfc) + (4fc - 5fc) + {5k - 4&) + (5fc-3fc) + (5fc-2fc) 
+ {5k-k) + 5k + 5k + 4k + Sk = 24k. 
VIIL (2fc - 5fc) + (3A: - 5k) + (4fc - 5k) + (5fc-4ft) + (6&-.3fc) 
+ {5k - 2fc) + (5fc - fc) + 5fc + 5A: + 4fc = ISfc. 
IX. {k - 6fc) + {2k - 5fc) + (3fc - 5k) + (4ft -5fc) + (5fc-4fc) 
+ {5k - 3fc) + (5fc — 2fc) + (5fc — ft) + 5ft + 5fc = lOfc. 
X. - 5ft + (ft - 5ft) + (2ft - 6ft) + (3ft - 5ft) + (4ft -5ft) + 
(5ft - 4ft) + (5ft - 3ft) + (5ft - 2ft) + (5ft -ft) +5ft=:0. 

Although this calculation was made for a special case 
and without taking into account the distance of a solenoid 
section from a section of the bar, still it shows the changes 
of the magnitude of the attractive force with the move- 
ment to or fro of either solenoid or bar. According to this 
if a cylindrical iron bar is brought in the direction of its 
axis, near to a helix of wire through which a current is 
flowing, the bar will be drawn into the coil until the centre 
of the bar is in a plane with the centre of the coil. The 
force with which the bar is drawn in reaches its maximum 
when one end of the bar is in a plane with the centre of the 
coil, and gradually diminishes as both centres approach 
each other until it comes to zero, when the centres come to 
the same plane. 

This law holds good only when the bar has a straight 
cylindrical form. If we imagine each of the bars in Fig. 15 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



29 



Fio. 14. 



Fie. 14a. 



to be composed of double coues with their bases together, so 
far as the mass is concerned, then 
the force exerted by a solenoid upon 
one or another will be uniform 
for any considerable movement 
along their lengths, in any of the 
cases. Fig. 15 shows a number 
of such bars, which, from their 
originator, are called Krizik's bars. 
These are susceptible of many ap- 
plications, such as in cases where 
their movements are desired to be of considerable length 
under small changes of magnetism. They may be used 





Attractitn/or an Iron Bar by 
a SoUnoid, 



Fig. 15. 



Fig. 16. 




D 

D 

D 




Potiiion* of a KrixiVs core in equili- 
brium between two Solenoids, 



Krisik's Bars. 

with one solenoid and a counter- 
acting spring, or weight ; or with 
two solenoids acting in opposi- 
tion, one at each end of a bar. 

Take for examples the cases 
shown in diagram in Fig. 16. 
S S S represent a solenoid in a main circuit of an electric 
lamp, and S' S' S' represent a solenoid of equal magnetic 
strength in a circuit shunted around the light. The cores 
in the three positions shown are equally attracted by the 
solenoids as long as their magnetic moments are equal, but 
the slightest preponderance of attraction in either solenoid 



30 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

causes the movement of the bar in the direction to the 
stronger. This action is under the law governing derived 
circuits, which will be considered in Section 27. 

O. Gralvanic Induction. A galvanic current 
in a wire can generate in an adjacent wire, which is a part 
of a circuit, another galvanic current. This phenomenon 
is called Induction. Faraday, who discovered in 1830 this 
method of generating currents, distinguished galvanic in- 
duction from dynamic, by referring the former to induction 
from the battery <5urrent in a wire at rest, and the latter to 
induction from the same source in a wire in motion. Gal- 
vanic induction takes place imder the following condi- 
tions : — If a wire closed upon itself, or, constituting part 
of a circuit of conducting material, be brought in the vicin- 
ity of another wire, or conductor, through which a current 
is passing, a current will be generated in the former named 
wire. Also a current will be generated in the wire if the 
current flowing in the latter named wire be stopped or 
started. This secondary current generated by the primary 

Pie. 17. 
0/ 




( "^ > 

C Mill )' 



-|l|l|l 



Galvanic Induction. 



current is called an induced, or induction, current. For an 
illustration of this phenomenon imagine in Fig. 17 a gal- 
vanic battery, B, and the continuous conducting wire, A C. 
In the vicinity of this arrangement the wire D E is situ- 
ated, having in its circuit the galvanometer G. As the 
wire D E is not in connection with the battery, there is^ 



PBBLIMINART PHYSICS. 31 

ordinarily, no current passing through it, and so the needle 
of the galvanometer rests at zero. If, however, the cur- 
rent from the battery be started, as it shoots through the 
conductor A C, an induction current is generated in D E, 
but in a direction opposite to the current in A C, as is 
shown by the deflection of the needle of the galvanometer. 
The induction current in D E has only a very short dura- 
tion; it only appears for a moment and then ceases, 
although the primary current from the battery B may con- 
tinue in the wire A C. Hence the needle of the galva- 
nometer Q, receives but one impulse to move it from zero, 
and vibrates to and fro as usual when disturbed, until it 
shortly comes to rest again at zero, notwithstanding the 
continuation of the primary current in A C. 

If, now, the current in A C be stopped, at the moment of 
stoppage a new induced current in D E is generated, 
which has the same direction as that which was flowing in 
A C, but also of extremely short duration. The summary, 
then, is, 

1st. That galvanic induced currents are of extremely 

short duration. 
2d. That on every closing of the primary circuit the in- 
duced current in the secondary circuit is opposite 
to the direction of the current in the primary ; and 
that on every opening of the primary circuit the in- 
duced current takes the same direction as the pri- 
mary current. 
If the battery circuit were opened and closed 500 times a 
minute there would be generated in a neighboring conduc- 
tor 1000 induced currents which would have alternately 
opposite directions. The strength of the induced current 
is proportional to the strength of the primary current ; it is 
also dependent upon the distance apart of the primary and 
secondary conductors, and upon the lengths of the parts of 
the conductors within the sphere of induction. The total 




32 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

inductive action between A C and D E is the sum of the 
small effects which the many elementary currents in A C 
have upon the many elementary circuits of the wire D E. 
The induced current, therefore, increases in D E in propor- 
tion to the number of effective elementary circuits (Am- 
pinEtE's) ; hence with the length of the two wires. 

These facts serve as a guide in the making of apparatus 
by which strong induced currents may be generated. An 

apparatus is shown in Fig, 18 
for the purpose, which consists 
of two wire circuits, brought 
as closely together as practi- 
cally possible, and parallel. 
For the purpose the wires are 
carefully insulated by being 
covered with a thin coating of 
silk, or other non-conducting 

Induction Coil. j • i i ^ i i ^^ 

material, and then wound to- 
gether as closely as possible on a spool of wood or paste- 
board. This system of two wires, one of which, R r, is of 
much greater diameter than the other, G g, for special 
reasons, constitutes an induction cylinder. The larger 
wire is called the primary ^ or main^ wire ; the thinner is 
called the induction wire. [There is no practical reason in 
this simple case for making the one wire smaller than the 
other, as they are wound together and are of the same 
length. The thinner wire is also called the secondary. — K.] 
Another apparatus may be made by winding the wires 
upon separate wooden or pasteboard tubes; the coarser 
wire on a smaller tube, so that when wound it may be 
placed inside the larger tube which is wound with the finer 
wire. The apparatus, which is illustrated in principle by 
diagram. Fig. 17, then will look as shown in Fig. 19. A is 
the induction coil of very fine, long wire ; B the inducing 
coil of comparative, short, thick wire ; E the galvanic bat- 



PBBLIMINABT PHYSICS. 



33 



tery, and M the galvanometer. The ends a 6 of the spool 
A are connected with the galvanometer ; the end d of the 
thick wire with the battery pole n, while the end c is con- 
nected with the capsule of mercury q. From the battery 
pole p a flexible wire is run and so connected that its free 
end may be dipped in the mercury capsule at will. 




K the battery circuit be closed by dipping the wire in 
the mercury, the needle of the galvanometer will be de- 
flected for a moment, showing that a current was started 



34 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in the secondary circuit. But as the needle soon comes to 
rest at zero, it is evident that that current does not con- 
tinue longer than the first impulse, even though the bat- 
tery circuit remains closed. The direction of the deflection 
of the galvanometer needle shows that the current is oppo- 
site to that of the battery current. When the battery cir- 
cuit is opened by removing the wire from the mercury cup, 
another impulse of current is sent through the secondary 
coil, and the galvanometer needle shows that it has a direc- 
tion opposite to the first impulse, and the same direction 
as the current which had been in the battery circuit. 

Another phenomenon to be noticed is that every sudden 
increase in the current circulating in the battery circuit, 
induces a current in the secondary circuit in opposite 
direction to the current in the primary ; and any sudden 
decrease of current in the battery circuit induces a current 
in the secondary in the same direction. 

T'. ^Dynamic Indiietion. Just as the closing 
or opening of the primary circuit, or an increase or de- 
crease in the strength of the current flowing in it, acts to 
induce currents, so does the rapid approach or withdrawal 
of a primary wire, in which a current is flowing, have a 
similar effect upon a secondary wire circuit. If the coil P, 
Fig. 20, be moved within the coil S, or be withdrawn or in- 
serted in it, currents will be generated as in the cases just 
considered. The currents generated may be called the 
"approaching" and "withdrawing." The former has the 
opposite, and the latter the same direction as the main cur- 
rent. Take for illustration Fig. 21 ; and from the premis'fes 
it is easy to determine the action exerted upon a conductor, 
R, by a current flowing in the solenoid from A to B. In 
passing R along A B, in direction of the arrow, the current 
in the convolutions from which it is receding induces the 
"withdrawing" current, and that in the convolutions in 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



36 



front induces the " approaching " current. Until the centre 
line M is reached the "approaching" is in excess, and the 



Fie. 90. 




Fie. 21. 



Dynamic Induction. 

excess is the measure of the eflfective current. From M to 
B the receding convolutions are in excess, so that the 

** receding" current 
preponderates, and 
is effective just in 
proportion to the 
differences between 
the numbers of con- 
volutions of each 
kind. Of course, at 
the centre line, M, 
the two currents 




Dynamic Induction. 



neutralize each other and are not effective. 

Gaugain correctly remarks, after his extended investi- 
gations, that the strength of the current in the ring does 
not alone depend upon the number of convolutions, but 



36 DYNAMO-KLECTBIC MACHINES. 

also upon the varying distances of the psurts of the appara- 
tus assumed under the conditions. Dynamic induction is 
governed by Ampere's laws given in Section 5. These may 
be again stated thus: — If the relative position of a con- 
ductor carrying a current, to that of a closed conductor not 
carrying a current, be changed in any manner, a current 
will be induced in the latter. 

The direction of this induced current is determined by 
the following law laid down by Lenz : — 

If the relative position of two conductors^ A and B, A 
carrying a current and B closed^ is changed, the motion wilt 
induce in B a current having a direction that would by its 
electrO'dynamic effect on the conductor A communicate to A 
a motion opposite to that by which the induction was caused. 
[In all cases the direction of the secondary (induced) cur- 
rent is such that the mechanical reaction between the two 
conductors is opposite to the direction of motion, being a 
repulsion when the wires are approaching, and an attrac- 
tion when they are receding. — K.] 

8. IMCa^gfnetie Induetion* According to Am- 
pere a magnet is a piece of iron having a series of galvanic 
currents encircling it at right angles to its axis (§ 4). Such 
being the case a magnet can be used in the place of the 
battery coil P, to show the same induced currents in the 
secondary coil S (Fig. 20). 

Referring to Fig. 22 the coil, galvanometer and connec- 
tions are the same as the same parts in Fig. 20. The bar 
magnet is substituted for the coil and connections. The 
same reversing induced currents arise from introducing 
and withdrawing the magnet. The directions of the in- 
duced currents depend upon the kind of motion (to or fro) 
given to the magnet, the direction of the convolutions of 
the wire, and the polarity of the end of the magnet which 
is nearest to the largest number of convolutions. The phe- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 37 

nomena are the same if the coil B (Fig. 20), or the magnet 
(Fig. 22), are stationary and the coil be moved. To deter- 




Magneiic Induction, 

mine the directions of the induced currents, consider the 
south pole of the magnet pointing to the observer, and the 
inducing Amp^rean currents will have the direction of the 
hands of a clock, and apply the rules which have been so 
fully set forth. 

O. ]W[ovemeiit of* a. IMCa^gnet to^war^ds a 
closed TV^ir^e Xt^ingf. In view of what has been 
written it is not difficult to determine previously what the 
currents will be in a closed wire ring if a magnetic bar, S N 
(Fig. 23), be moved toward and through the ring in such 
manner as to keep the plane of the ring perpendicular to 
the axis of the bar. Consider the magnet bar N S as a 
solenoid with a series of currents having the direction of 
the arrows ; as the bar is moved towards the ring all the 
currents exert their inductive effect, increasing imtil S 
reaches the plane of the ring, and then decreasing till 



38 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



m reaches the same position, where the inductive eflfects 
are equal and opposite on both sides, consequently at 



Fio.aa 



^wWsBf^wwwn^wyrif^^i^^f^ 



jL-o. 



t 




MevtmeMi of a Magnet tcmardt a Wire Ring, 

that point there is no current. Continue the move- 
ment of the magnet in the same direction through the 
ring, and the reverse effects will be observed. The phe- 
nomena are the same as those observed in § 5. The effects 
are the same if the ring be moved instead of the bar. The 
arrows 1 to 6 (Fig. 23), serve to show the comparative 
strength and direction of the induced currents. 



lO. Xt^otAtlon of* a. Xt^ing- lia^^ing- a. eon- 
tinuous coil of TVire upon it, toet^v^een 
the Foles of* a ^JCag-net.. Grramme Xt^ing-. 

For simplicity in studying the direction of currents in 
closed conductors enveloping a ring we will take instead 
of the whole spiral only a few convolutions, which we will 
pass over the iron annular core in the direction fromjp over 
r^ n, etc. We will also imagine the iron ring as provided 
with two double poles, n s, formed by cutting the ring in 
two and moving their poles a little apart, as is shown in 
Figs. 24 and 25. These form, in fact, two semi-circular 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



39 



magnets with like poles turned towards each other. We 
will imagine each of these magnetSi according to Ampire'a 



Fro. S4. 




Flew ofCurrtnt in Gramm4 Ring. 

theory, § 4, a system of parallel currents encircling the iron 
at equal distances, with the direction of the hands of a 
watch if the south pole be turned towards the observer y or 
the opposite in the case of the north pole, as is shown in 
Fig. 25. Now if we move the coil R, Fig. 24, over the semi- 
circular magnets there will be induced currents, such as we 
have considered in Section 7, generated in quantity and 

Fio.96. 




SeUnoid CurrtnU around Double Poles. 



force due to the movement towards and from the solenoid 
currents. These currents will take, in the successive posi- 
tions of the spiral, the direction due to the different in- 



40 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

ductive efficiencies of the solenoid currents from which the 
spiral is receding and of those which it is approaching. 

For purpose of consideration we need take only one-half 
of the semicircular magnets, as the reactions are the same 
in both, and divide that into four sections r^r^r^r*. The in- 
fluence of the solenoidal, or Amp^rean, currents upon the 
spiral varies with their distances from the poles. By any 
small movement of the coil from its resting-place an elec- 
tromotive force is set up and a current generated in the 
coil. We will designate the electromotive force in the coil 
over that section of the ring where the coil is shown by e, 
and that force in the coil during its movement over the 
section next it, by e\ etc. We designate the direction of 
the positive current in the coil R by the sign +, it having 
the direction from the exterior of the ring towards the cen- 
tre, in that part which is drawn full, and which is on the 
side towards the observer. To the negative current we 
give the sign — , it having the direction opposite to the 
positive, that is, from the centre toward the exterior. We 
also call to memory (§ 7) that the induced currents are op- 
posite to the inducing solenoidal, or Amperean, currents 
when the coil is approaching the greater number, or 
have the same direction when receding from the greater 
number. 

1. If the coil R be at the point of neutrality, p, half way 
between n and 5, and if it be moved a little in the direction 
spn, it will vecede from all solenoid currents between p 
and 5, and at the same time will approach the same number 
of solenoid currents, having the same direction between p 
and n. At the moment of starting, the electromotive forces 
are balanced, as seen by the signs, + e^ + e — e — e^ = o. 
Therefore the coil R receives no current while passing the 
neutral line p ; and the same is the case when passing the 
line_p^ 

2. If the coil be exactly over the double pole n, and then 



PRBLIMIKARY PHYSICS. 41 

receives a slight moyement towaxds the right it will recede 
from those solenoid currents at the left between n and p, 
and will approach the same niunber of solenoid currents, 
having a contrary direction, at the right, between n and p^. 
The electromotive forces of all the currents between pnp 
is therefore + e* + e + e + e* = 2 e + 2 e^ and the cur- 
rents induced in the coil is the sum of all these electromo- 
tive forces, and is as great as can be attained during the 
movement of the coil over the whole ring. The direction 
of this current is +, t. e., upon the part towards the ob- 
server it is from the exterior towards the centre of the ring, 
as is shown on the first convolution of the coil. 

3. If the coil be directly over the double pole «, and be 
moved a little in the direction as before, it will recede from 
all solenoid currents lying between a and pS and approach 
the same number of currents, having contrary direction, 
lying between s and p. The electromotive force of all 
these magnet currents is therefore — e^ — e — e — e* = 
— 2 e — 2 e^ The induction current produced by these 
electromotive forces has therefore the same intensity as 
that at the double pole n ; but the direction is opposite. 

4. If the coil be at the point r^ half way between the 
neutral line p and the pole n, a small movement of the 
spiral brings into action the magnetic currents between 
r* r* r*. The coil recedes from the solenoid currents lying 
between r* and r*, therefore the resulting electromotive 
force i& + e^ +e; but the coil also approaches all the mag- 
net currents between r* and r*, half of which have one 
direction and half another, so these electromotive forces 
are — e + e^ Therefore the entire electromotive forces 
acting on the coil, in this case are +e* +6 — 6 + e^ = 2 e*. 
During the passing of the coil over the point r\ therefore, 
it receives a current having the same direction as that 
which it had on passing n, but, however, of less intensity. 
By referring to the illustration it will be readily seen that 



42 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the magnitude of the electromotive forces, e and e\ is de- 
pendent upon the number of effective solenoid currents ; 
and that the induced current created by the electromotive 
force + 2 eUs the stronger the nearer the coil approaches 
the double pole n. 

6. If the coil R be at r^, which is half way between n 
and p\ the magnet currents between the points r*, r*, r^, 
are to be taken into consideration on its next move- 
ment towards pK The coil recedes from all solenoid cur- 
rents between r^ and r',. and approaches all those situated 
between i* and r^. The electromotive force of the next 
movement is then + e^ — e + e + e^ = 2 e^ The induc- 
tion current thereby created has, hence, the direction of 
that at the pole n ; as well, it has the same intensity as 
the current generated at r^ From the preceding state- 
ments it will be seen that if the coil R be moved from p 
over the points .rS n, r*, to p^ of the polarized ring, an elec- 
tric induction current is generated, uninterruptedly y which 
commences as it leaves p, and grows 'stronger as it ap- 
proaches n, is strongest at n, and then diminishes until at 
jp' it is again nil. This current retains its direction during 
the entire movement from p over n to pK That is, in the 
part of the spiral on the side toward the observer the direc- 
tion is toward the centre of the iron ring. 

6. If the coil has arrived at r^, the solenoid currents be- 
tween r^, r^, and r* wiU act at the next movement ; their 
electromotive force is — e^ — e + e — e* = — 2 e\ The 
induced current has the direction opposite to the one pre- 
viously considered; i. e., in the parts of the spiral on the 
side towards the observer the direction is away from the 
centre of the ring. The intensity of the current is the 
same as that at the points r^ and r^. 

7. If, finally, the coil is at the point r*, half way be- 
tween p and 5, the electromotive force is of course + e — e^ 
— e* — e = — 2 6*. The induced current retains its direc- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. ' 43 

tion, the same as it had at t*, s and r* ; and its intensity is 
the same as at the points r* r^ and rt 

Therefore, it is to be concluded that if the wire spiral R 
be moved from p* over the points r^, s, and r* top of the po- 
larized ring, an induction current is also produced uninter- 
ruptedly, beginning on leaving p*, grows stronger, is 
strongest at s, and again decreases till at p it is again nil. 
The current retains its direction during the entire move- 
ment from p* over s to p. If we sum up these results from 
the entire revolution of the wire spiral around the axis of 
the iron ring we will come to the following conclusion : — 

At the magnetically neutral line of the iron ring the 
spiral is without current ; but immediately thereafter the 
induced current appears; at first of little strength, but 
grows stronger until it reaches its maximum at the pole ; it 
then diminishes to nothing at the other end of the magnet- 
ically neutral line. During this time the, direction of the 
current remains unchanged. But further movement in- 
duces a current of opposite direction, which grows stronger 
as the coil approaches the second pole, and then weaker as 
it recedes from that pole and approaches the first neutral 
point from which the spiral was moved. 

"What we have said of the spiral wire R is equally true 
of every other spiral with which we could clothe the ring ; 
and now we are prepared to receive a clear idea of what 
happens when we encircle the iron ring with a continuous 
series of such spiral spools, or bobbins, and connect metal- 
licly their ends so that the circuit has no beginning and no 
end. The induction phenomena are the same, as far as the 
direction of the currents, whether the wire coils be moved 
over the stationary polarized ring, or the iron ring, with 
the coils fixed upon it, be revolved around its axis. In 
both cases the double poles of the ring retain their places 
in space, and the coils move through the polarized space. 
In the case of a single spiral, or coil, as first considered, the 



44 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

various changes and degrees of current appear succes- 
sively. But when the iron ring is covered by coils the 
changes are progressive in the several coils ; but in the 
whole, so considered, there is no rise and fall. In all the 
spools situated on one side of a diameter, which is the line 
midway between the poles, induction currents of different 
strengths in the different spools are generated, which sum 
up as one current of definite strength and direction. In all 
the spools on the other side of that line like currents of like 
strength are generated which all sum up into one current 
of equal strength to the total current on the one side, but of 
opposite direction. As these two currents are equal and 
opposed they balance each other, so no available current 
circulates in the convolutions when the ring is rotated 
on its axis. The direct action of the exterior stationary 
magnet poles upon the rotating wire spools remains, for 
the present, out of consideration, as also does the molecular 
change produced in the iron by displacement of the poles 
induced in the ring. 

Nevertheless, the electromotive forces of the solenoid 
currents in the wire convolutions constantly exist during 
the rotation of the ring. It is exactly as if the like (+) 
poles of two equally strong batteries, I and II (Fig. 26), 
were connected together. Notwithstanding that the elec- 
tromotive forces of the batteries exist, they being equal 
and opposed no current flows as there are no possible paths. 
So no current is to be noticed in + a 6 +. But by supply- 
ing a circuit these electromotive forces will generate a cur- 
rent which will flow in it. To accomplish this connect by 
a wire, L, the common jimction {+) ab with the common 
junction {--) cd, and a current formed by the union of the 
two currents from the batteries will flow in the direction 
designated by the arrows. This mode of connecting bat- 
teries is caUed " coupling for quantity." The mode of con- 
necting the single elements of a battery in succession is 



PBELIMIKARY PHYSICS. 



45 



Fie. 98. 



n. 




called "connecting in series/' or "connecting for inten- 
sity/' "tension/' or "electromotive force." Gramme does 
the same thing by conducting the 
two currents generated in the ring 
from the jimction points on one side 
to the junction point diametrically 
opposite. These points are the ex- 
tremities of the diameter coincident 
with the line of neutrality between 
the poles of the stationary inducing 
magnet. 

[The several spools, or bobbins, 
on each side may be, for illustra- 
tion, considered as an equal number 
of single cells of diflferent electro- 
motive values, coupled up for ten- 
sion, which is the sima of the sev- 
eral electromotive forces; and the 
two batteries thus formed coupled 
for quantity. — K.] 

This is plainly seen by examining Fig. 27. In this 
figure the ring is encircled by a continuous wire helix, the 
heavily drawn parts of which are facing the observer. The 
induced poles are at n and s, and the neutral points p and 
p\ Each single convolution represents a full spool, or bob- 
bin, placed in contiguity, and the beginning of each spool 
connected with the ending of the next in one direction, and 
so on, that the whole forms one complete electric circuit 
around the ring, in one direction. By inductive action of 
stationary magnet poles, not shown, in the immediate 
vicinity of n and s, during rotation of the ring, a current 
tends to flow in the direction shown by the arrow, on 
the wire above the line p p" ; and a like current also 
tends to flow in the wire below the line, in the opposite 
direction as shown by the arrows. But as the tendencies 



Two BatterieM Coupled /or Quaw 
tUy. 



46 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



are equal and opposite no current can flow until a circuit 
external to the ring is supplied. As these tendencies neu- 



FtO.37. 




Caurst of Currents in Gramme Ring, 

tralize each other at the neutral line, a wire L connecting 
the two points p and p^ allows the flow of the combined 
currents, as in the case of the batteries (Fig. 26). The 
strength of the current is not, as in the movement of a 
single coil, of different values in the different positions, but 
is of one strength in all parts, and is equal to the sum of all 
the currents generated in the several coils, as these are pro- 
duced simultaneously and constantly. The stability and 
constancy of this entire current is due to the fact that, 
by the rapid rotation of the ring, which may be 800 to 200Q 
per minute, each spool immediately enters the space just 
vacated by the one which preceded it, so that notwithstand- 



PBELIMINART PHYSICS. 47 

ing the changes which are constantly taking place in the 
individual spools^ the aggregate changes being progres- 
sively continuous, the total current does not suflFer change 
in constancy or strength. The entire wire convolutions of 
the ring will be traversed by a constant and continuous 
current if the speed of rotation remains constant. The 
greater the rapidity of rotation the greater the quantity of 
electricity that is produced in a unit of time. Experiments 
bave shown that the electromotive force is proportional to 
the rapidity of rotation. 

In the preceding we have only taken into consideration 
the effects produced by the polarized iron core of the ring. 
But we must also consider the effects produced by the 
direct action of the stationary magnet poles upon the wire 
coils alone. For this purpose we must consider the wire 
coils without the inclosed iron annular core as revolving 
around the axis in the direction heretofore assumed. 

Let S (Fig. 28) be the south pole of a stationary inducing 
magnet exterior to the wire coils, placed vertically and 
perpendicular to the plane of the paper. In such a case 
the outer and inner portions of the wire convolutions are in 
the vicinity of the pole ; but of course the outer portions 
are nearer the pole than the inner by the thickness of the 
removed iron ring. Consider the wires lying on the plane 
of the paper. The lines 1, 2 to 13 represent the outer por- 
tions of one or more of the coils, placed close together and 
facing the pole S. The inner portions of the coils are indi- 
cated only by the dotted lines connecting the fully drawn 
lines. The ends to the right and left are supposed to be 
connected with the adjacent coils as heretofore explained. 
We assume that the convolutions are equidistant from each 
other and that number 7 is over the centre of the pole, and 
that 6 and 8, 5 and 9, 4 and 10, 3 and 11, 2 and 12 are equally 
distant from this centre, as is the case during rotation of 
the coils. The arrow a gives the direction of the move- 



48 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



ment across the pole. The magnet we again consider a 
system of solenoid currents, according to Ampere, and that 



Fio.88. 




a 

Currents /rom Movement of Wire Coils over a Magnet Pole, 

they circulate in the direction of the hands of a clock, as i& 
shown by the arrows I and r. By movement of the coil 
across the end of the magnet pole the approaching convo- 
lutions 1, 2, 3, and 4 are most strongly influenced, as they 
are more nearly parallel to the solenoid currents ; whereas 6 
and 7 are scarcely, if at all, influenced, as the solenoid cur- 
rents cross them in two directions at nearly right angles, 
and therefore neutralize each other. In the same way 
there is little or no current induced in No. 8, but nearly all 
in 10, 11, 12, and 13 of the receding coils. 

If the spools, or coils, alone, without any interior iron, 
were moved before the magnet pole S there would also be 
currents induced in the farther portions of the coils from 
the pole, as well as in the nearer portions. But as they are 
less influenced, and in practice are protected from the in- 
ductive action of the magnet by the iron core of the ring, 
we need not consider this action only so far as to say that 
the direction of the induced current in them is in opposi- 
tion to that of the nearer portions. 

In the movement of the wires 1 to 4 the induced currents 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 49 

being those of approach, have a direction opposite to the 
Amp^rean currents, and are indicated by the arrow-heads 
at the bottom of the lines. These wires also approach the 
Amperean currents r as well as I ; but as r is farther than I 
the induced currents have a strength due to the different 
effective actions of I and r. The wires 10, 11, 12 and 13 all 
recede from the Amperean currents r and Z ; r of course 
being most effective, and consequently the currents in- 
duced are due to the difference in the effective actions of r 
and Z. As the wires are receding the currents have a direc- 
tion the same as the solenoid current r. 

The action upon the wires 6, 7 and 8 is somewhat differ- 
ent. Wire 6 recedes from I and approaches r ; but as I is 
nearer and so most effective, the current in 6 takes the 
same direction as h This is also the case with wire 8, only 
the greater effective force is with r, it being the nearer. 
The currents in these two wires serve to neutralize some- 
what the currents induced in the other wires. As the wires 
5 and 9 pass the edges of the magnet pole, the induced cur- 
rents in them change directions. Wire 7 in crossing the 
centre of the pole receives two impulses of current, with an 
intermediate cessation. All the wires over the face of the 
pole do not contribute to the effective current, but act to 
neutralize a part of the current generated in more favora- 
bly moved wires. 

In the preceding consideration the inductive effects of 
the currents which are parallel to the wires have only been 
taken into account ; but all other solenoid currents, except 
those perpendicular or at right angles to the wire coils, are 
effective, and in the proportion which they deviate from 
the right angle towards the line parallel to the wire coils. 

To stun up, the effective currents induced in the wire 1 
to 13 are all in one direction, and assist each other when the 
continuous connections are made which have been de- 
scribed. Of course it will be readily taken for granted that 
3 



50 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the north pole will exert a like action upon the coils of the 
ring. 

We have specially considered the wire coils without the 
iron ring, and without considering any effects upon the 
portions of the wire of the coils within the riug. The iron 
ring not only protects those portions from reverse action 
(the possibility of which was shown), but aids materially 
by inducing currents in inner wires by reason of the oppo- 
site polarity induced in it by induction from the stationary 
magnet. 

According to Chramme the iron ring otherwise greatly 
assists the efficiency of his machine, as by its presence the 
magnetism of the stationary magnet is more concentrated 
at the poles and so exerts a greater inductive effect upon 
the wires. 

Besides these simpler effects which we have described, 
there are others, such as the reactions of the currents upon 
each other, and various other phenomena. We avoid these 
unimportant investigations, because they would lead too 
far from the object of this treatise, and do not make any 
important change in the result of our investigation. 

[Dr. Schellen's theory of the action of the Oramme ma- 
chine is not altogether satisfactory. If his theory be cor- 
rect, then the poles of the stationary inducing magnets 
should be as small as practicable, so as to avoid the counter- 
currents induced in the wires directly facing the poles. In 
practice the machines have the pole-faces enlarged so that 
they almost completely encircle the rings. See the illustra- 
tions of Gramme machines. And, furthermore, in the most 
effective Gramme machines (see Figs. 136 and 136) the 
wires of the rings are moved at right-angles to the solenoid, 
or AmpSrean currents. The theory advanced by others 
that the induced currents are due to *^ cutting the lines of 
magnetic force" by the wires is, perhaps, a nearer ap- 
proach to the truth, but still not sufficient, as the "lines" 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 61 

can be **cut" by circuit wires without giving rise to cur- 
rents. A rise and fall in magnetic influence, say from ap- 
proach and recedence, seems to be necessary. We will not 
here advance a theory. —K.] 

11. [Rotation of an Armatrire over 

the Foles of a IMag-net. If a bar of soft iron 
A B (Fig. 29) be enveloped by the insulated wire coil C, or 
the bar of horse-shoe form C (Fig. 30) have two like wire 
coils, for the purpose of generating induced currents, either 
apparatus may be called an inductor y or, more commonly, 
an armature. 

FiOB. 99 and 80. 




Inductors or Armaiuret, 




The same induction effects which are produced in a wire 
coil by the movement of a magnet, as in Fig. 22, may be 
produced by moving a magnet to and from the soft iron 
cores of inductors. By division, the iron becomes magnetic 
(§2), its magnetism increases or diminishes by approach or 
recedence of the magnet, and the corresponding inductive 
effects are observed in the wire coils. 

If, therefore, a rotary motion be imparted to the induc- 
tor, so that the ends A B of the iron core pass close by the 
poles N S of the stationary magnet, there will be currents 
generated in the coils which have the directions due to 
approach and recedence, and which for greater clearness 
are illustrated in this special application by Fig. 31. 



52 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Pio. 81. 



The convolutions are drawn few and far apart, for ease 
of analysis. 

By bringing the magnet B towards the soft iron core A, 
there are generated in the latter magnetic poles of opposite 
polarity to those of the former, as is 
indicated by the letters N 5, n S. This 
movement generates a current in the 
wire which has a direction opposite (as 
shown by the arrows) to the Amp^rean 
currents of the iron molecules. If B be 
now withdrawn, A will lose its mag- 
netism, and in so doing will induce a 
current in the wire of the same direction 
as the Amp^rean currents. 

If either A or B be rotated, it will be 
seen that the currents will have the 
same direction during the time of move- 
ment of N from s to n, where they will 
be reversed. 

[A careful analysis of the movements 
and of the generated currents will show 
that the withdrawal of N from s towards 
n reduces the magnetism of A to nil at 
90° of the rotation, and there is a current of direction due to 
loss of magnetism, say over to the left. But, at that point, 
as both the poles of B have equal effect upon both ends of 
A, the current ceases. Continuing the rotation, what was 
N becomes S, and the generated current has the direction 
under to the left in space ; but in the wire, as it has reversed 
its direction in space, the current has the same direction as 
the previous one. 

The next half of the rotation reverses the current to the 
right, in the same manner. 

Thus it will be seen there are four impulses of current 
due to one rotation, the movement from one pole to the 




Direciijn of Currents in an 
Inductor. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 53 

opposite pole giving rise to two impulses having one direc- 
tion, and the other half of the rotation giving rise to two 
impulses in the opposite direction. 

It is well to call the attention of the reader to the fact 
that no currents are generated in induction coils, unless the 
two ends of the wire of the coils are connected, either 
directly together, or through some other conductor, so as to 
have a complete circuit through which the current may- 
flow. Also that the terms "current" and "flow of cur- 
rent" do not express the proper conception of electric 
motion ; but as the early investigators used these terms, 
and as they serve a good purpose in making practical 
descriptions, they are herein used. Electric current is but 
a mode of motion, as is heat, light, sound, etc. It seems 
probable that the motion is transferred from molecule to 
molecule in the circuit by molecular change of form. Its 
hypothetical consideration, however, is not within the scope 
of this work. — K.] 

IS. The IMag^netlc Field of Force. In 

the preceding observations we have always considered the 
effects of electric currents in the place of permanent mag- 
nets. In many cases, however, it is simpler and more con- 
venient to consider the direct effects of the electric currents 
themselves. As magnets induce electric currents, so do 
electric currents induce magnetism. If we take a stiff piece 
of paper, and pass a thick copper wire through a perforation 
near its centre, and, while the paper is supported horizon- 
tally, pass currents through the wire from a strong galvanic 
battery, and if the upper surface of the paper be covered 
with iron filings, these will arrange themselves in a peculiar 
order, somewhat as shown in Fig. 32. The filings form 
concentric circles around the copper wire, and are delinea- 
tions of the direction of the magnetic forces which are 
exerted by the electric current upon the minute particles of 



54 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



iron. These arrange themselves lengthwise and parallel 
with the lines of magnetic force. This direction coincides 
at every point with the tangent of the circle passing through 
that point and concentric to the wire. Fig. 33 shows a 
length of wire traversed by the galvanic current, and the 
magnetic lines of force are indicated by the helical lines 
encircling the wire. 

Fie. 8S. 







J'Atf Magnetic Field of Farce of a Galvanic Current. 



We can therefore speak of the magnetic field of a gal- 
vanic, or electric, current, and mean by the expression that 
during that particular observation the galvanic current pro- 
duces effects like those of properly arranged magnets. In 
this manner, investigation is often greatly simplified, by 
giving us the great advantage of producing at any time a 
visible picture, as it were,^of the properties of the magnetic 
fields of force of either magnets or electric currents. It is 
only necessary to introduce into the field a piece of paper 
strewn with iron filings, and then observe the curves pro- 
duced by them under the magnetic influence. The form of 



PBELIMINABY PHYSICS. 55 

i;he curves shows the direction of the magnetic forces ; but, 
more than this, the pictures also allow us to draw conclu- 
sions as to their intensity. Where the force is great, the 
curves are thick and sharply defined ; and where it is weak, 
the lines are thinner and less plain. 

When we desire to show graphically a field of force, we 
observe the following method : We characterize the direc- 
tion of the force at every point in the field by lines having 
that direction; and where the intensity of the force is 
increased, we represent the fact by an increased niunber of 
the lines in a given space, somewhat in proportion to the 
force in that space. A drawing made according to these 
principles shows everything necessary to enable us to deter- 
mine the inducing electric action of a magnetic field of 
force. 

[It is often desirable to fix the pictures or ^'magnetic 
spectra " made with iron filings. To do so, first take moder- 
ately thick, unsized paper, and saturate it with melted 
paraffine. Next sift some iron filings through a sieve of not 
larger than 70x70 mesh. Even finer is preferable. Use 
none other than those filings which have passed through 
the sieve. Next stretch the prepared paper on a rectangu- 
lar frame, like the frame of a school slate, and then support 
the frame horizontally a few inches above the work-table. 
Place under the paper, and almost in contact therewith, the 
magnet, electro-magnet, wire, conductor, or whatever else 
the field of force of which you may wish to observe, and 
tjien energize them ; if not already in such state, as in the 
case of a permanent magnet. While energized, sift on the 
paper some of the iron filings, and then gently tap the paper 
with a pencil, or the like, so that the filings may freely 
move to their places. Then a fiat mass of iron, previously 
heated to a temperature of 300 or 400 degrees Fahrenheit, 
must be held over the paper until the paraffine become 
liquid, when the iron must be removed and the paper be 



56 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



allowed to cool. The paraffine fixes the filings in place so 
that the "magnetic spectrum" thus formed may be pre- 
served for reference. Such spectra may be copied by 
photography, or by the **blue process."— K.] 

For the sake of simplicity, we will first consider a homo- 
geneous field of force. In this case, both the direction and 
intensity of the force is the same at all points ; therefore 
the lines are drawn parallel and at equal distances apart. 
Fig. 33 represents a field of this kind. 



Fio. 88. 




Fio. 34. 



Magnetic Lines of Force of an Electric Current, 

In Section 8 we have seen that induction currents are 
created when a wire coil is brought near a magnet or 
removed from it. Evidently the important action here is 
the carrying of the coil from a weak magnetic field into a 
stronger magnetic field, and then the reverse. 

Fig. 34 shows the lines due to this movement, such as 
take form from the movement of a simple copper ring in a 

non-homogeneous mag- 
netic field. In the upper 
part of the field the lines 
are drawn from right to 
left. The intensity is 
great at two points, and 
at the middle is naught. 
In the lower part of the 
field the lines pass from 
left to right. 

With the movement 
the intensity rapidly in- 

Movement of a Ring in a Non-homogeneotu j xi_ J 

Pi^i^^ creases and then de- 




PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



67 



creases. It is the same field of force shown in Fig. 7, 
and is produced by two bar-magnets, which are placed 
opposite each other, with opposite poles in the same direc- 
tion. If we move the copper ring from the first point, 
where the lines are close together, towards the middle, 
where the lines are less close together, a current is induced 
by the movement, as shown in the figure. If the ring is 
moved from the middle to the third position, where the lines 
of force are again closer, but of opposite direction, the effect 

F188. 85 and 96. 




Mcvtmtnt of a Ring in a HomogtnuDux Magnetic Field without Induction, 



is the same, the action still stronger. The three positions 
are materially different, inasmuch as the number of lines of 
force and their direction vary with every position. The 
essential condition of this observation is the movement of 
the ring, so that the number of lines of force it cuts, and 



58 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



their direction relatively to the ring, is changed. But if the 
ring be so moved that there be no change in the number or 
direction of the lines crossed, the inducting action is 
naught. Such cases are shown by Figs. 35 and 36. But we 
can also move the ring in a homogeneous field of force in 
such a manner that either, or both, the number and direc- 
tion of the bisected lines of force is changed, by turning it 
around an axis at right angles to the direction of the lines 
of force. 

This method of induction has of late become of much 
special importance. Fig. 37 is an endeavor to elucidate it. 



Pio. 87. 



rf /?^\ ^ 


J fn\^^^ 


I / \\ 


t ^- 


1 / 


c vV y 




•^ 


< \i^ 


^^^-^^is 




"^ 


' J) 


\ //- .<y/ 




\S*--^ 


>" 


^ * 


"^ 





Rotating Motion of a Ring in a Homogeneous Magnetic Field, 



PART II. 

THE METHODS OF ELECTRIC MEASUREMENTS 
AND MEASURING INSTRUMENTS. 

13. !EIlecti*ica.l Eneirg-y. In all branches of 
physics exact methods of measurement are based on the 
statement that the sum total of energy remains the same 
whatever may be the forms of its manifestation. 

By the term Energy we characterize all manifestations 
or expressions of elementary forces of nature whether they 
be called heat, light, electricity, chemical reaction, or des- 
ignated by other terms, no matter whether it be latent 
(energy of rest) or active (energy of motion). 

Electrical energy can be produced by a galvanic bat- 
tery, a thermopile, or by friction-electric, magneto-electric, 
or dynamo-electric machines which may be driven by 
hand, or by means of a gas-motor, or steam engine. 
Energy is communicated to all these machines in some 
form, and by them is converted into -electrical energy in 
either a good, bad, or indifferent manner. Zinc is oxidized 
in the galvanic battery ; heat is applied to the thermopile ; 
and mechanical power is applied to the other three kinds of 
machines in various ways. In order to determine whether 
one or the other arrangement for the conversion of a mode 
of energy into electricity is the most advantageous, the 
energy used and the electricity produced must be measured. 
The electrician's duty is, however, more than this. For 
him electricity serves but as a means for the accomplish- 
ment of a purpose. After he has constructed apparatus 

59 



60 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

which attains the nearest possible perfection in the way of 
transforming mechanical energy into electrical energy, it 
becomes his second duty to construct other apparatus by 
which it is possible to make use of this electrical energy 
for practical requirements ; whether it be in the transfor- 
mation of it into light for electric lighting, into mechani- 
cal labor for the transmission of power, into chemical 
energy for galvanoplastic purposes, into heat for heating 
apartments, or for other and various purposes. In these 
cases, again, it becomes necessary to know how much 
light, mechanical labor, chemical energy and heat can be 
obtained from a given amount of electrical energy by his 
apparatus. 

All these processes, to which nimierous others might be 
added, require for their understanding and control a sum 
of knowledge from all branches of physics, especially of 
phenomena in the fields of electricity, of magnetism, and 
of heat and light ; all of which, however, can be found in 
the text-books of physics. The various transformations 
of electrical energy into light and mechanical power, and 
vice versa, like all other processes of nature, take place in 
order of number and measure. And it is in consequence of 
the labors of recent investigators in the field of physics 
which covers principally the transformation of power, that 
we have new and convenient units of measurement. These 
units were only finally determined at the Paris Congress 
in 1881. This makes it necessary that the person who de- 
sires to make earnest study in the field of technical elec- 
tricity, must not alone become familiar with the older 
empirical units of measurement, but must also become con- 
versant with the C.G.8. (centimeter, gramme, second) units 
of measure (the so-called "absolute system of measure- 
ment"). On this system the physicists have made very 
complicated measuring instruments which the experi- 
mental and practical man must thoroughly understand if 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 61 

he desires to gain reliable data from his observations. 
This Part will therefore treat of the units of measurement, 
the latest and important instruments for measurement, 
and of their use for practical work. 

14. .A^yirton and Terry's I>yiia.inoine- 

tei*. Mechanical power is usually stated in the unit 
horse-power, which is 75 m.kg. (metre-kilogrammes) per 
second. A horse-power is that energy which is used in 
lifting one kilogramme seventy-five metres high in one sec- 
ond against the force of gravity. In case of the dynamo- 
electric machines it is of the greatest importance that its 
velocity of rotation and the power acting upon it should 
remain constant. Dynamometers have been made which 
allowed of the determination of these two factors of speed 
and power at any moment. The dynamometer of Profs. 
Ayrton and Perry (Fig. 38) measures the transmitted force 
by the tension imparted to a spring or springs. A strong 
hub F' with four radial arms, F, is keyed, or otherwise 
fastened, to the shaft A of the steam engine, or other mo- 
tor. Four spiral springs connect the ends of the arms with 
the rim of a loose-pulley B B' which runs on the shaft A. 
The loose-pulley serves as the driver for the dynamo-electric 
machine by means of a suitable belt. 

Or the loose-pulley may be replaced by the pulley of the 
machine, and the connections be made by the springs 
directly. If A be rotated, the power is communicated 
through the springs. So the tension of the springs is the 
measure of the grammes, or pounds, of power used. The 
greater the power applied the more the springs are ex- 
tended, and the more the arms are moved backwards rela- 
tively to the pulley. This tension and the distance are 
measured optically, somewhat after the following man- 
ner : — Upon the rim of the loose-pulley B a lever is pinned 
at one end C, and is movable thereon as its axis. This 



62 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

lever is connected with one of the arms F through the ex- 
tension L' and link L. The other end of the lever carries a 

Fio. 88. 




Ayrton &• Perry's Dynamomtter. 

bright metallic knob H. When in revolution around the 
axis A the bright knob appears to the eye as a bright circle 
whose radius is the distance between the centre of A and 
the centre of H. The greater the power expended the 
nearer the bright knob is drawn towards the axis A. The 
radius is read from a scale fastened near the apparatus 
with its highest mark on the line extending the axis. As 
the knob, or rather, the apparent circle, appears at one of 
the marks on the scale the force expended is readily read 
in horse-power. 

[The mode of grading iis this : — A piece of belting 
fastened to the pulley, say at B', is passed over the pulley 
in direction opposite to the arrows ; at B it leaves the pul- 
ley at a tangent, and is f astiened to the hook of a spring 
balance, which, in its turn, is fastened to some immovable 
object. A rod, for a scale, is then placed in any convenient 
position, either horizontcd or vertical, but near to and cross- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 63 

ing the central line of the axis and the position of knob H. 
If the axis A and arms F be now turned by hand, or lever, 
in direction of the arrows the knob will be forced towards 
the axis, and the pounds, or grammes, of strain put upon 
the belt may be read from the spring balance at any and 
all positions of the knob. These may be marked upon the 
rod or scale, and if the pulley is to be run at constant speed 
the horse-power may be calculated by the following equa- 
tion, and marked thereon at the several divisions of the 
scale. Let L equal the length in feet of the belting requisite 
to encircle the pulley once ; and I the same length in me- 
tres ; and N the number of rotations of the pulley per min- 
ute ; and n the number of rotations per second ; and P the 
pounds shown on the scale at the position of the knob or 
bright circle ; and p the number of kilogrammes shown at 
the same place ; 

then ^ . ^ = —~-= horse-power expended. 

The second formula is for French horse-power. Some 
correction is needed to compensate for the centrifugal force 
of the lever during rotation. — K.] 

ISm Von Hefkier-^^lteneck's liyiia- 
xnometer. The arrangement constituting the dyna- 
mometer we have just described was first suggested by 
General Morin. It is convenient for stationary use and 
where exactness is not specially desired. For accurate 
measurements the dynamometer devised by Von Hefner- 
Alteneck is exclusively used. [Not so in the United States. 
— K.] The principle is illustrated by Fig. 39. 

The apparatus consists of two pulleys, R^ and R^ 
strongly supported in bearings in a frame and with 
their axes parallel. The driving belt which passes around 
the two pulleys N* and N' is passed between the two pul- 



64 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



leys R^ and R^ so that the line of the belt forms a symmet- 
rical figure with equal parts on both sides of the line join- 



Fia.89. 




Fan H^/ner-Atttneck^ 9 Dynamomettr {old madei.) 

ing the two axes O* and O^ as long as the two parts of the 
belt have equal tension. If power be transmitted through 
the belt the pulleys together will be moved towards the 
part which has the stronger tension. 

The power necessary to bring the pulleys back to their 
intermediate position is proportionate to the power trans- 
mitted through the belt. This is measured by the spring 
g, which, by means of the screw v, is brought to the ten- 
sion needed to keep the pointer on the frame just over the 
mark m. The degree of tension can be read from the scale 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



65 



S^ and the divisions of the scale have predetermined 
values. 



Fio. 40. 




Diagram of Von Ht/ner'AUontck'^t Dynamometer, 



The apparatus as it is used in practice is shown in Figs. 
40, 41, and 42. Its main parts are seven pulleys arranged 
as shown in the diagram Fig. 40. Six of these, designated 



Fio. 41. 




Von He/ntr^Alteneck' s Dynamometer {front view). 

by numbers 1 to 6 have their arbor-bearings in a rectangu- 
lar iron frame, and all their arbors are parallel. The sev- 
enth pulley has its bearings in a lever-frame which is piv- 



66 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

oted on the axis of pulley 6, and can move either up or 
down. When the pulley 7 is moved either way from ita 




Von He/ner-Altentck't Dynamometer {to^ view), 

central position the pointer p moves correspondingly^ 
though in the opposite direction, from the point m ; but it 
can be made to assume its normal position by adjusting the 
tension of the spring g by the screw v. The belt is carried 
between the pulleys as shown in the diagram, so that its 
line forms a symmetrical figure with two like parts, one 
above and the other below the pulley 7, as long as the ten- 
sions on the two parts are equal. As soon as power is 
transmitted by the belt the pulley is moved by the tight- 
ened part of the belt in the direction of the slackened part, 
and the pointer p is correspondingly moved away from m. 
The tension requisite to bring the pulley and pointer back 
to their places is then applied to the spring g by the screw 
Vy and the values of the tension are read from the scale S. 
To prevent too rapid vibrations of the parts due to momen- 
tary variations in the power expended, a dash-pot is pro- 
vided at L, with its piston attached to the frame V. 

[The values of the scale S are determined by previously 
applying known values of weight to the rim of the driving 
pulley, as at N^, Fig. 39, and noting the xjorresponding 
movements of the pointer on the scale S, from which calcu- 
lations can be made after the formulas given on page 
63. — K.] 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 67 

lO. Tlie Bi^ake I>yiiaiiioxiieter. The 

dynamometers so far discussed permit of measuring power 
expended at the moment without loss. In special cases, 
however, such as in the electric transmission of power, the 
use of the brake dynamometer is desirable. This measures 
the labor actually performed by a motor in any given time 
by using the power expended during the time of the test 
in overcoming friction. The apparatus consists of a lever 
which is fastened to the axis of a motor, but which is pre- 
vented by a weight, or some definite force, from rotating 
with the shaft. The weight required to prevent the lever 
from moving with the shaft is the measure of the amount 
of transmitted power. This is greater as the lever is longer 
or the weight attached is heavier. 

[A brake is sometimes applied to devices resembling 
rig. 38, to determine the values of the deflection of the 
lever-pointer H, or its like, in place of the belt and attach- 
ments described in that connection. The brake is applied 
by clamping on the periphery of thet pulley, and weighing 
the pressure exerted by the end of the lever on a balance, 
or platform scales, requisite to bring the pointer to a given 
point. Then the following formula should be used : As the 
distance from the centre of the axis A to the periphery of 
the pulley is to the distance from the same centre to the 
end of the brake-lever, so is the pressure exerted on the 
scales to the tension of the belt.— K.] 

[XT'. The Itent I^ynamometei?, An ex- 
cellent construction of dynamometer is shown in Fig. 43. 
It was designed by Mr. William Kent, of Pittsburgh, Pa., 
and was built at the Stevens Institute of Technology by the 
graduating class of 1879. It is a modification and improve- 
ment upon the famous Batchelder dynamometer, a descrip- 
tion of which may be found in the Scientific American of 
August 31st, 1878. It was used in the tests made for the 



68 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



United States Lighthouse Board by Prof. Henry Morton, 
and is thus described by him : 

''The modification consists in providing a method of 
making an automatic record, and of indicating more minute 
variations of the power transmitted. The accompanying 
cut, Fig. 43, represents the dynamometer without the 

Fio. 48. 




Kent Dynamometer . 



recording attachment, and as it was used in the experi- 
ments. The construction of this apparatus and its mode of 
operation are as follows : 

"It consists, as shown, of two stout cast-iron frames, 
held together by bolts in bearings, in the top of which 
frames run two shafts, each carrying a pulley at its outer 
end and a bevel-gear wheel of 45° at its inner end. One of 
these shafts is the driving-shaft, connected by belt to the 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 69 

engine or other prime mover ; the other is the driven shaf t, 
connected by belt to the machine driven. The power is 
transmitted from one shaft to the other through two other 
bevel-wheels of 45° gearing with the first, the shaft common 
to them and on which they run freely being at right angles 
to the axis of the two shafts first mentioned, and carrying 
at one extremity a heavy pendulum. 

" The bevel- wheels being connected, as shown, and the 
power being applied to the driving-wheel, the two interme- 
diate wheels with their common shaft have a tendency to 
revolve around the driving-axis, which tendency is a mea45- 
ure of the force transmitted, and is resisted by the moment 
of the weight of the pendulum. In the Batchelder dyna- 
mometer, the four bevel-wheels and their shafts are used, 
but the shaft connecting the intermediate wheels is always 
held in a horizontal position, and its tendency to revolve is 
resisted by weights and a sliding poise applied to an exten- 
sion of one end of it, which is graduated like a scale-beam. 
In using the Batchelder dynamometer, the operator requires 
to keep the beam constantly balanced, by shifting the poise 
on the scale-beam or the weights in the scale-pan hung at 
its outer end, to correspond with the variations of the power 
transmitted, and a record of the power is obtained by noting 
the weight on the scale-beam at each instant, and the cor- 
responding number of revolutions of the driving-shaft. The 
horse-power is obtained by multiplying weight in pounds of 
weighting poise on the scale-beam by the distance in feet 
of its point of suspension from the driving axes, by the 
number of revolutions per minute, by 3.1416, and dividing 
by 33,000. 

"In the improved dynamometer, the horizontal scale- 
beam with its weights and sliding poise has been dispensed 
with, and the swinging pendulum substituted. The tend- 
ency of the shaft carrying the two intermediate bevel- 
wheels, the prolongation of which shaft is the pendulum 



70 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

arm, to revolve around the driving-axis, is measured by the 
weight of the pendulum and its arm multiplied by the dis- 
tance of their centre of gravity from the driving-axis and 
by the sine of the angle which the pendulum arm makes 
with the vertical. When the pendulum hangs in a vertical 
position, the force transmitted is zero, errors due to friction 
excepted, and when it is horizontal, the sine of the angle 
being equal to unity, the force is the maximum the appara- 
tus is capable of recording. The weight of pendulum and 
its position on the arm being constant, the only variables to 
be considered in measuring the horse-power transmitted are 
the number of revolutions per minute and the sine of the 
angle of the inclination of the arm. These variables may 
be caused to automatically record themselves on a sheet of 
cross-section paper by any one of a number of devices. 

"The dynamometer used in these experiments had a 
capacity for measuring 20 horse-power ; a method is pro- 
vided of measuring very small powers, which consists in 
lessening the moment of the pendulum and arm, first by 
shifting the sliding weight nearer the driving-axis ; second, 
if still lighter moment is desired, by removing the weight 
from the arm entirely ; or, third, if even still greater deli- 
cacy is desired, by counterbalancing the weight of the arm 
by adding weight to its upper end, above the upper inter- 
mediate bevel-wheel. 

"During the experiments, one person attended to the 
running of the engine, dynamometer, and machine, while 
another recorded the number of revolutions of the dyna- 
mometer and the inclination of the weighted pendulum ; 
the latter was read from a graduated arc fastened to the 
pendulum in such a manner as to be in the same plane with 
its axis ; this arc, by the deflection of the pendulum, swung 
by a pointer attached to a cross-bolt at back of machine and 
thus indicated the degrees of inclination of the pendulum. 
The friction of the dynamometer was obtained by loading 



PBBLIMINABY PHYSICS. 71 

its delivery shaft with a weight which produced the same 
pressure on the bearings as was brought on them when it 
was transmitting power to the light machines, and then 
noting the deflection of the pendulum to overcome the fric- 
tion produced." — K.] 

[18. The Bi*a,ekett Dynamometer. 

This dynamometer is the one best adapted to measuring 
the power applied to dynamo-electric machines. It was in- 
vented and has been patented by Prof. Cyrus F. Brackett, 
of the College of New Jersey, at Princeton, N. J. Prof. 
Brackett described it as follows, in The Electrical World, 
of Jan. 5, 1884 : 

" The principle involved will at once appear, when atten- 
tion is called to the mechanical interaction which takes 
place between the armature and the field magnets of a 
dynamo or a magneto machine. When the circuit is closed, 
the armature being in rotation, the field magnets tend to 
revolve with the armature ; and if free to do so, they would 
acquire a velocity of rotation equal to that of the armature. 
The current would be thereby reduced, in the limit when 
the velocities become equal, to zero. Now it is the mechan- 
ical couple which the armature exerts on the field-magnets 
which we desire to know in order to compute the energy, 
supposing we know the number of revolutions which the 
armature makes in a unit of time (say minute). We shall 
know this couple if we know the value of the equal couple 
which must be applied in order to hold the field-magnets in 
place. To secure this knowledge, we have only to balance 
the field-magnet system so that it can turn freely through 
a small arc, whose centre lies in the geometric axis of the 
armature, and apply a known force at some point on a 
graduated lever-arm which is attached to the field-magnet 
system so as to lie in a horizontal direction when the mag- 
nets are in equilibrium, as in the case of a common balance. 



72 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



The centre of gravity of the field-magnet system, together 
with the lever-arm, should be very slightly below the points 
of support, for the same reason that the centre of gravity 
in the balance is slightly below the knife-edges. 

" The number of revolutions being known, by means of 
a ^ speeder,' we have the force in terms of a known weight 
or spring, and the length of the lever-arm on which it is 
applied. Hence we know the moment of couple desired. 
The expression for the energy is then 

Energy = 2L x 3.141592 x W x N, 

where L is the length of the lever-arm, W is the weight, 
and N the number of revolutions in a unit of time. If we 
desire the result in * horse-power,' we shall take L in feet 
and W in pounds, the unit of time being one minute. 

"The accompanying figures will render this description 
clearer. They represent with substantial accuracy the con- 
struction of two small machines belonging to the Physical 
Laboratory at Princeton. Fig. 44 is the side elevation. 

« Fio. 44. 



pCt'rrr'n 




Side EUvtUion, 



Fig. 44a is a transverse section or vertical plan. It will be 
seen, from the description and from the figures, that the 
energy measured is exactly that which is effective in pro- 
ducing the current. No allowance whatever has to be made 



PBBLIMINART PHYSICS. 



73 



for loss in friction at the brushes^ bearings, or other parts 
of the machine. This is what we desire in a scientific 
research. The only waste which we need take account of, 
even in the most delicate and exact inquiry, is that which 
results from the friction of the air between the field-magnets 

FW. 440. 




Trantvtrse Section, 



and the armature whereby the field-magnets might be sub- 
ject to a slight force tending to make them revolve. Even 
this insignificant factor is perfectly eliminated by the use 
of a small weight just sufficient to balance this tendency. 

" In the application of the method here pointed out to 
measure the energy of a large commercial machine of any 
construction whatever, we have a different object in view. 
We desire to know what power must be expended on the 
machine, as a whole, in order to drive it under its load. 
We then have only to mount the machine on a rocking 
cradle so that the line passing through the points of support 
of the cradle shall be coincident with the geometrical axis 
of the armature. The cradle, together with the machine, is 
then to be balanced so as to bring the centre of gravity of 
the whole into near coincidence with the line passing 
through the points of support. The graduated lever-arm is 
to be attached to the cradle in a horizontal position, and 
weights or springs are to be applied, as in the case already 



74 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

explained. A cradle is easily contrived which shall have 
an adjustable platform, so that machines having different 
construction may be mounted on it for trial. The uprights 
on which the supports are fastened may be of wooden tim- 
ber, or in some cases, as, for instance, in the Gramme con- * 
struction, the uprights which carry the knife-edge supports 
may be attached directly to the machine itself. The ma- 
chine in this case needs only two uprights, on which the 
knife-edges may rest as they carry the machine. 

"The essential point to be secured is to have the whole 
machine, together with its immediate support, so balanced 
on knife-edges or their equivalents that it can turn through 
a small arc, suflBcient to allow of the application of a mo- 
ment of couple equal and opposite that exerted by the 
driving-belt, the equality being determined by securing, by 
means of a weight at some definite point on the lever-arm, 
a condition of equilibrium to the field-magnets." 

1 &• H^eg-ister of K.ota.tion^. The dyna- 
mometer measures the tension on the periphery of the pul- 
ley. In order to know the amount of transmitted power, it 

is necessary to know the 
diameter of the pulley 
and the number of rota- 
tions per minute, from 
which data we can cal- 
culate the circumference 
of the pulley and the dis- 
tance traveled by the belt 

Tachamtter mad* by Buss, Sombart &* Co, in a glveU timC. 

The exact determina- 
tion of number of rotations in a given time of dynamo- 
electric machines is of great importance, and special 
apparatus are constructed for the purpose. The tachometer 
made by Buss^ Sombart & Co., of Magdeburg, is much used. 




PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 75 

It is possible with it to read at any moment the rate of 
rotations per minute then going on, from a pointer moving 
on a scale. The position of this pointer is regulated by 
a spring which acts like a centrifugal pendulum. The 
spring is in a cylindrical iron case. The instrument may be 
attached directly to the rotating shaft, or be run by a belt 
therefrom. Other forms of instruments for this purpose are 
too well known to need description here. 

30. Ohm's La>v a.nd the Units of 
Electric jWCeasnrements. Electrical energy is 
determined by two factors. For example, the energy of a 
waterfall not alone depends upon the quantity of water 
falling, but also upon the height from which it falls. Like- 
wise, the knowledge of the quantity of electricity given by 
a machine is not suflBcient upon which to form a judgment 
as to its merits ; there must also be data as to its tension 
(what potential differences exist). In order to determine 
the electrical energy, we must measure two things : 1st, the 
quantity of electricity which passes through the wire during 
a given time, i. e., the intensity of the electric current, the 
current strength ; and 2d, the potential difference by reason 
of which the electricity traverses the wire from one part to 
another, i, e., its tension. It is convenient in measuring to 
introduce a third factor, the electrical resistance of the cir- 
cuit in which the current flows. The relation in which 
these three factors are connected with each other is ex- 
pressed by the following equation : 

E = C X R, 
or Tension = Strength of Current x Resistance. 
[Or, as is also expressed : 

Electro-motive Force = Current x Resistance. — K.] 



76 DYNAMO-BLECTKIC MACHINES. 

Formerly these three factors had other units of valua- 
tion^ but the Electrical Congress at Paris^ in 1881, fixed a 
system of measures which has since been adopted every- 
where, and will be exclusively used in the following pages. 
The unit of electrical resistance is termed an OAw, and is 
represented by the resistance of a column of mercury of one 
square millimetre section and 1047.55 millimetres length, or 
by that of a copper wire one millimetre diameter and 48 
metres length. The unit of tension, or electro-motive force, 
is termed a Volty and is 0.9 of the tension at the poles of a 
Daniell cell. The imit of strength of current i§ termed an 
Ampire. An electric current has the intensity of 1 ampere 
when with the tension of one volt it traverses a circuit 
having the resistance of one ohm. The theoretical founda- 
tion for the selection of these units is fully set forth in the 
proceedings of the Electrical Congress in Paris, in 1881. 

According to the experiments made by Joule and the 
investigations of HelmholtZy the following fimdamental 
relation exists between the electrical units of measure- 
ment : 

Electrical Energy = Tension x Strength of Current 

If the mechanical energy is measured in horse-power, 
the following equation expresses the mechanical and elec- 
trical energy. A represents horse-power ; then 

A — ^Q^^^ X Ampdrea 
"" 735.7 

Formerly the units of measurement used in Germany 
were, the Siemens mercury unit for resistance, a Daniell 
cell for tension, and the strength of current was expressed 
in Webers. The following relations exist between the new 
and old units : 

1 Ohm = 1.0486 Siemens. 

1 Volt = 0.927 Daniell. 

1 Ampere = 0.885 Weber. 



PRELIMINABY PHYSICS. 77 

And the reverse : 

1 Siemens = 0.9537 Ohm. 
1 Daniell = 1.079 Volt. 
1 Weber = 1.13 Ampdre. 

The value of the horse-power unit also varies in different 
countries. The generalizing equation may be stated thus : 

„ Volts X Ampdres 
Horse-power = j^ — -^ 

The value of C is shown in the following table : 



Germ ANT and France. 
1 horse-powers 75 eec mkg. 


Baden. 
= S0OMe.ft.lb. 


PRC88IA. 
= 'l80MCttlb. 


Enolasd. 
= «B0 eec ft. lb. 


Austria. 

= O0 8ec.lt. lb. 


1 

C = 736.7 


1 
736.7 


1.0043 

738.9 


1.0139 
746.9 


1.0149 
746.7 



[The American value of C ie the same as the EDglisb.— K.] 

Velocity of a falling body being in all 9.819 metres per 
second. 

In Schellen's handbook on the Electro-magnetic Tele- 
graph, various apparatus and methods are shown and given 
for electric measurement. Here we only describe apparatus 
and methods which are specially adapted to use with 
dynamo-electric machines. These facts must be borne in 
mind : the previous ordinary so-called galvanometers are 
nearly all magnetic deflection needles. They are nearly 
useless with dynamo-electric machines, on account of the 
strong magnetism of the machines, which in itself causes 
deflections of the needles of the galvanometers in their 
neighborhood. Apparatus has been devised, the readings 
of which are independent of external electric and magnetic 
forces, and are only governed by the intensity of the elec- 
tric current passed through them. This end is attained in 
two ways : one, by constructing the instrument so that it 



78 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



contains no magnetizable iron whatever, and the other by 
embodying in the instrument such intense permanent-mag- 
nets that no accidental exterior magnetic fields have any 
appreciable effect on the readings. 



Fio.46. 




Siemens &* Halske^s Electro-Dynamometer, 



SI. Electro-Dynamoineter made "by 
Siemens Sc Halske. This instrument is made 
under the former plan just named, and is used for measur- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 79 

ing strong electric currents. It is illustrated in Fig. 46. 
Its main parts are two coils which are traversed by the cur- 
rent to be measured. The interior coil is stationary and 
the exterior one is movable. The coils of the two are per- 
pendicular to each other at the points of crossing. The 
exterior coil has but one convolution, and its ends dip in 
mercury-cups through which it receives its current. It is 
suspended by a thread and a torsion spring. The upper 
end of the torsion spring has a button, or knob, shown at 
the top of the instrument, which button has a needle- 
pointer which rotates with the button over the circular 
scale. An index-finger, or pointer, is fastened on the 
movable coil, and extends upwards to the circular scale. 
When at rest the two pointers point alike to the zero of the 
scale. But when a current is made to traverse both coils 
in series they tend to assume a parallel position by reason 
of their mutual electro-magnetic attraction. But the tor- 
sion spring acts against this, and by means of the button 
the torsion force of the spring may be increased until the 
pointer on the coil is brought again to zero on the scale. 
As the angle of torsion A is proportional to the rotating 
power, and this latter is proportional to the square of the 
strength of the current I, t. 6., proportional to the product 
of the individual strengths of current passing through both 
coils ; then I = C V A, or proportional to the square root of 
the indicated angle of deflection. 

S3. The Gralvanometers (A-mmeter, 
"Voltmeter of Deprez and -A.jrrtoii & 

Perry). These are based upon the protection from ex- 
terior influences afforded by the use in the instruments of 
powerful permanent magnets. Deprez's galvanometer is 
shown in Figs. 47 and 48. The coil of insulated wire 
through which the current passes is placed between the 
poles of a strong permanent magnet. The armature con- 



80 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

sists of a thin blade of soft iron, with ten incisions which 
make it resemble a double comb. It takes the place of the 
needle of an ordinary galvanometer, and Deprez assmnes 
that its form insures a better polarization by induction of 
the iaagnet. This armature is nicely balanced on knife 
edges, and to make it lie horizontally when uninfluenced 
by a current in the coils, a balancing weight is put on the 
under side, and it is shown by the dotted lines in Fig. 48. 
A pulley is fastened on one of the axial extensions of the 
armature, and another pulley, one-fifth of the diameter of 
the first, is placed in line with it on the standard carrying 
the graduated scale shown in Fig. 47. This second pulley 

Fio. 47. 




Deprez's Galvanometer. 

has an index pointer fastened to its axis. By reason of the 
cord which connects the peripheries of these two pulleys 
the movement of the second is over an arc five times as 
long as the first. This construction is not above doubt as 
to the correctness of its readings. One advantage it has, 
however, is the almost immediate coming to rest of the 
pointer. The wire convolutions are formed into two cir- 
cuits. One, having four convolutions of very thick wire, 
serves for the measurement of strong currents ; and the 
other, having a great number of convolutions of fine wire, 
serves for the measurement of weak currents. The galva- 



PKELIMINARY PHYSICS. 
Fig. 48. 



81 




The Armature of Deprez^s Galvanometer, 

nometer constructed by Ayrton & Perry (Fig. 49) is a more 
convenient instrument. In this a very light needle swings 
in a very strong magnetic field. 

The needle is so carefully balanced that the readings 
are correct imder any position of the instrument. The 

FS9.49. 




Ayrton 6* Perry's Galvanometer, 



82 DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

deflections of the needle are directly proportional to the 
strength of the current. This perfection is attained by 
appropriate arrangement of the convolutions of the wire of 
the coils. The circuit is made up of ten divisions of equal 
resistances. The ten divisions may be, by the commutator 
at the top and back of Fig. 49, connected in parallel arc, or 
in series, by a simple movement. In the former case a cur- 
rent of 10 amperes causes a deflection of the needle of 5 de- 
grees ; while in the latter case a current of 1 ampere causes 
a like deflection. The divisions of the scale are as high as 
45° each side of zero, so that current strengths as high as 
90 amperes can be measured. Each instrument has with it 
an artiflcial resistance of one ohm, to be used for purposes 
of calibration and adjustment. A yoke-like armature is 
put over the poles of the magnet when the instrument is 
not in use, in order to preserve its magnetism as much as 
possible. 

The instruments we have described are used for measur- 
ing current strengths, and for that purpose their coils are 
put into the main circuit. On this account the convolu- 
tions are few and are of thick wire, so that their resist- 
ances are of no comparative account. Often the divisions 
of the scale are marked with their values in amperes. In 
order to measure tension, volts, these instruments must be 
modifled. The plan followed is in obedience to Ohm's 
law, E = RxC. Provision is made so that R can be con- 
stant, and then the tension E is proportional to the strength 
of the current C, measured by the instrument. Such in- 
stnmients are called Voltmeters. They have very many 
convolutions of flne wire in each coil, and with great elec- 
trical resistance (100 to 2000 ohms). 

[They are not put into the main circuit, but their bind- 
ing-posts are connected with the two points between which 
the diflEerence of potential, or tension, is to be determined. 
The diflEerence of potential between the two points is what 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



83 



determines the flow of current between the two points in 
the two circuits so provided, and the strength of current in 
each is in inverse proportion to its resistance. — K.] 

This measurement is not absolutely correct, because it is 
based upon the assumption that the resistance between the 
two points in the main circuit relatively disappears. 



Fio. 60. 




■'!«llti!E''il!l'r"'!' 

AyrtoH &* Perry s Spring Galvanometer. 



[Of course the measurement is more nearly correct, the 
greater the difference between the resistances of the circuits 
between the two points. Ayrton & Perry have also made a 
galvanometer to avoid the frequent calibrations which are 
necessary with those having permanent magnets which 
vary in magnetic strength. This one, illustrated in Fig. 
50, has the directive force of its needle determined by a 



84 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



spiral hair-spring located around the pivoting axis of the 
needle. By means of a button the tension of the spring 
may be adjusted so that the needle will not be deflected 
from zero until the deflecting force of the current has 
reached a predetermined value. So when the needle is 
slightly deflected that value is indicated. — K.] 

Fio. 51. 




Siemens and HaUkis Torsion Galvanometer. 



S3. Siemens a.nd Ha^lnke's rForslon 
Gralvanometer. For exact measurements of differ- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 85 

ences of tension/ this galvanometer is now almost exclu- 
sively used in Germany. It is illustrated in Fig. 51. The 
instrument contains a so-called bell-magnet, which is sus- 
pended from the cover by an unspun silk fibre and a fine 
spiral spring. The pointers play imder the engraved scale 
on the glass-top cover of the instrument. The torsion angle 
is measured as in the case of the electro-dynamometer 
described in Section 21. Over eax^h pole of the magnet is a 
coil of about 50 ohms resistance. Under the instrument, at 
the base-plate, is placed an artificial resistance of about 900 
ohms, which may be short-circuited by a plug. Without 
the artificial resistance in circuit, tensions varying from 
0.01 to 1 volt can be measured by the instrument. By 
removing the plug, the resistance of 900 ohms is introduced 
into the circuit, so that the sensitiveness of the instrument 
becomes only one-tenth of that before, and tensions up to 
10 volts may be then measured. For still greater potentials 
the sensitiveness must be still decreased. In order to meas- 
ure a potential of 100 volts, a resistance of 9900 ohms must 
be introduced. 

24.^ lESdison's Heg-istering- A.ppax*atn8. 

This must be considered xmder the measuring instruments. 
It is extensively used in his lighting system. It measures 
the amount of electricity flowing through the circuit during 
any desired length of time. It is based on Faraday's law of 
electrolysis, stated as follows : When an electric current 
traverses a solution, which is an electrolyte, of a salt of a 
metal, the solution is decomposed, and the quantity of 
metal deposited on the negative electrode of the vessel con- 
taining the solution is • proportional to the strength of the 
current, and also is proportional to the atomic weight of the 
metal. For the. salt in the solution, Edison formerly em- 
ployed copper sulphate ; but latterly he uses zinc sulphate. 
See Fig. 52. 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



[On account of the less degree of polarization of the lat- 
ter solution. — K.] 

The apparatus has two electrolytic or decomposition 
cells, of different resistances. The electrodes are zinc 
plates, which can be easily removed for exchange. Such 
an apparatus is put into a branch-circuit, and the resist- 
ances of the two circuits so provided between the points of 
connection are so arranged relative to each other that one 
per centum of the total current flows through the instru- 
ment. While current 

Pig 68. 

flows, the positive plate 
becomes continually 
lighter, and the negative 
heavier, and both in 
exact proportion to the 
strength of the current 
and the atomic electric 
equivalent of zinc. The 
plates are removed from 
time to time and accu- 
rately weighed, so that 
information is gained as 
to the exact increase and 
decrease in weight, and 
consequently of the 
quantity of electricity 
which has passed 
through the apparatus 
between the tim^s of 
weighing. We will give this apparatus a more extended 
description when we consider Edison's system of illumi- 
nation. 

[Edison has also made an automatically -registering 
measurement apparatus, or meter, which is shown in 
Fig. 53. Two cells are provided, which contain each an 




EdisotCs Registering A^aratus or Meter. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



87 



electrolytic solution, a stationary electrode of the metal to 
be electrolyzed, and two other electrodes, which are mova- 
ble up and down by the oscillations of the balance-arm to 



Fie. 58. 




Edison's A utomatically- Registering Apparatus* 



which they are attached. The electric connections are so 
made that whichever arm of the balance is uppermost, that 
electrode attached to it is a cathode and receives a deposit 



88 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



of metal, while the depressed arm of the balance carries an 
electrode which is the anode of its cell, and is losing metal. 
When the electrodes have received and lost enough metal, 
respectively, the heavy one tips the balance and in so doing 
switches the current, so that the one which was the anode 
becomes the cathode, and vice versa; the operation is 
repeated at intervals as long as current flows. The several 
tips are registered by movement of the pointers on the dial- 
plates. A certain number of tips has a predetermined value 
in amperes, or other units. — K.] 

SS. Tlie Electric I>ynamometer. This 
instrument, which is constructed by Ayrton & Perry, 
shown in Figs. 54 and 55, is somewhat like the electro- 

Fie. 54. 




Ayrton 6* Perry s Electrical Dynamometer, 



dynamometer described in Section 21, inasmuch as two coils 
are used, one stationary and the other movable, but the 
connections are different. The stationary coil B has but 
few convolutions of coarse wire, while the movable coil C 



PRELIMINART PHYSICS. 



89 



is formed of a great number of convolutions of fine wire. 
The stationary coil is inserted in the main circuit, for 
instance^ of an electric lamp ; the other coil is connected 
with the two binding-posts of the lamp, so forming a 
derived circuit around the light. The force with which the 
movable coil is deflected is proportional to the product of 
the strength of current flowing in both coils. 

The resistance of the fine wire coil may be 100 ohms, or 
multiples thereof. As we have seen in Section 20, the cur- 
rent in the fine wire coil is proportional to the potential E 

Fio. 5B. 




Diagram of Ayrton 6* Ptrry^s Electrical Dynamometer. 



at the binding-posts of the lamp. Nearly the entire current 

C traverses the coarse wire coils. Therefore, as we have 

seen in Section 20 that the electrical energy is ^ x C, 

. , , H (volts) X C (amperes) ^ ^ 

the horse-power = — ^ • J^ — Germany [or 

^^ United States.— K.] 

In order to adapt the instrument to use under varying 
circumstances, it is provided with a commutator, as aire the 
galvanometers made by the same people, shown in Sec- 
tion 22. 

The coarse wire is divided into ten equal parts, and by 



90 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINBS. 

the commutator these parts may be placed either in series^ 
or in multiple arc. 

20 • ]M[ea,siu*emeiit onLiigclit. It is as neces- 
sary to measure the quantity of light given by an electric 
current as to determine the power expended and its return 
of electrical energy. Measurements of light are much more 
difficult to make, on account of the difficulty attending the 
several standard light units and systems of measurement. 
The Electrical Congress of Paris did not adopt any unit of 
measurement of light. 

In all such measurements, distinction must be made 
between the strength or quantity of the emitted light, and 
its quality or brilliancy. All light measurements have 
heretofore been made by comparing two lights of different 
strengths or quantity. It is stated that two different lights, 
for example those from gas and petroleum, emit the same 
amount of light when they illuminate the same area to the 
same degree, at equal distances. As the degree of illumi- 
nation of an area by a light emitted from a point decreases 
in the proportion of the square of the distance between the 
point and area, it follows that in order to illuminate the 
area to a degree due to a distance of 1, the light must be 
increased in quantity in the proportion of the square of the 
distance to which the area may be moved from the point of 
light. 

In general terms, therefore, it may be said that the 
strengths or quantities of light from two different sources 
which illuminate a given area to the same degree, are to 
each other as the squares of their distances from the illumi- 
nated areas. The various arrangements for comparing two 
sources of light are called photometers, and are based upon 
the principle just stated. 

Electricians differ upon the units of measurement in 
photometry. In France, the unit of strength of light is a 



PRELIMINART PHY8ICS. 



91 



Carcel (Moderateur) lamp, largest size, 30 millimetres width 
of wicky which bums 42 grammes of Colza oil per hour. 
This quantity of light is called a Bee Carcel. The light of a 
gas flame consuming 140 litres of gas per hour is also used 
as a unit. In comparison, the latter is to the former 1 Bee 
de gaz = 1.1 Bee Carcel. In England the so-called Parlia- 
ment candle (London standard spermaceti candle) is used. 
It should burn with a height of flame of 45 millimetres, and 
consume 7.77 grammes of spermaceti per hour. 

In Germany, the Society of German Gas and Water 
Specialists has adopted as a unit a standard paraflSne can- 
dle of 20 millimetres diameter, and of exact construction of 
wick. This is made up of 24 cotton threads, and when dry 
weighs 0.668 grammes per metre. Six of these candles 
weigh 500 grammes, and each gives a flame 50 millimetres 
high. But this standard is generally disregarded ; and 
most of the cities, in making contracts with the gas compa- 
nies, have adopted special standards. Furthermore, these 
standard candles are only manufactured to order, and the 
long flame (50 mm.) is very unsteady. 

The flame of the Munich standard stearin candle con- 
sumes 10.2 to 10.6 grammes of stearin per hour. The candle 
is made from stearin having 76 to 76.6 per cent, of car- 
bon. The normal height of flame for a consumption of 10.4 
grammes of stearin per hour is 52 millimetres. 

Comparative measurements give the following table : 



Beo Caboex. 


Standard 
Spebu Candle. 


Oebman Stan- 
DABD Candle. 


Munich Candle. 


1. 

0.134 
0.132 
0.148 


7.435 
1. 

0.977 
1.102 


7.607 
1.023 
1. 
1.128 


6.743 
0.907 
0.887 
1. 



92 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

The various standard candles vary among themselves. 
Louis Schwendler says, "a candle, of whatever material it 
may be made, and whatever its size may be, will always be 
dependent on the composition of a compound body, the ex- 
act reproduction of which is always attended by great diffi- 
culty. The carcel burner is subject to the same troubles. 
And further, the quantity of light which these units pro- 
duce is dependent in a great degree upon exterior influ- 
ences which do not readily admit of control or measure- 
ment, and which therefore cause variations in the unit- 
light for which no corrections can be made. For instance, 
the rate and regularity with which a candle bums, and the 
quantity of light which it emits, depends not only upon the 
material but also upon the rapidity and regularity of the 
admission of oxygen. In a closed space, like the housing 
of a photometer, if the admission of fresh air is not reg- 
ular the same candle will emit quantities of light vary- 
ing 50 per cent, at different times. Another difficulty is 
the constant change in the length of wick, flame, and can- 
dle itself, so that the light changes its position in the pho- 
tometer, and in so doing alters its quantitative effect on 
a given point." 

In order to overcome these difficulties Schwendler in- 
vented a new unit, which he produced by the heating effect 
of a constant electric current on a platinum wire of a given 
length, diameter and weight. As the application of this 
unit to technical purposes has not come to our knowledge, 
we will not enter into a detailed description of it and its 
use. It is greatly to be regretted that we have not an 
easily prepared and imiform unit of light. The want of it 
is often the cause of disputes, and misjudgments have often 
been made on that account. 

Comparisons of lights of about equal intensity are 
usually made with a Bunsen photometer (Fig. 66). Its main 
part is a piece of white paper stretched on a rectangular 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



93 




^ 



Bunsen Photometer, 



frame. At its centre a drop of melted paraffine is plax^ed, 
as at m. If we put a light on each side of this paper the 
spot of parafiKne will appear 
translucent as long as one 
side is illuminated to a 
higher degree than the other. 
But if we move the lights or 
the paper till both sides are 
equally illuminated, the 
translucency disappears and 
the spot becomes invisible. 
Two mirrors, M N M' N', are 
set up as shown in the fig- 
ure, so that the mirror reflections of the paraffine spot may 
be seen on both sides of the paper by an observer standing 
in the plane of the paper. The light intensities are to each 
other as the squares of their respective distances from the 
paper A B are to each other. These distances are correct 
when the spot is invisible by reason of the equal illumina- 
tions of both sides of the paper. 

The form of photometer adopted by Edison is thus de- 
scribed. The photometer is set on a small carriage which 
runs on a track, or rail, on which small equal linear meas- 
urements are marked. The carriage carries a pointer 
which points to these divisions, so that the distances may 
be readily taken. The two light sources are placed one at 
each end of the rail ; say an electric incandescent lamp at 
one end, and the selected unit of light at the other end. 
This is either one or two normal candles, or a regulated 
gas-jet. The entire arrangement is inclosed in a large 
blackened box, or in a dark room. The divisions on the 
scale are so numbered that the relative intensities of the 
two lights are read at once at the division under the pointer 
on the carriage, when that has been placed so that the 
paraffine spot is invisible. 



94 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



If arc lights axe to be measured by this method it is 
necessary to have a room of at least 20 to 30 meters in 
length, on account of the intensity of such a light requir- 
ing its removal to a comparatively great distance from the 
photometer. As such long rooms are not always conven- 
iently at command, Messrs. Ayrton & Perry have invented 
an instrument which they call a Distributing Photometery 
which is based on the Rumf ord photometer. The principle 
is illustrated by placing lights to be compared so that both 



Fio. 97. 




Ayrion 6* Perry's Distributing Photometer, 



cast equally intense shadows of a bar on a white wall. The 
intensities of the lights are then to each other as the 
squares of the distances of the respective lights from the 
bar which casts the shadows. In the distributing photom- 
eter the rays of light from the electric lamp E do not fall 
directly on the receiver S (Fig. 57), but first pass a concave 
lens L, which distributes them over a much greater area, so 
that they throw a much less intense shadow of the bar R 
on the receiver. The shadow so thrown is compared with 
that thrown by the normal candle flame C. The candle is 



PRBLIMINART PHYSICS. 95 

placed in the position from which the resultant shadow 
equals the other shadow in intensity. Fronx simple optical 
laws the intensity of the light E is thus stated : — 

As it is very important in electric light determinations 
to make measurements of the light at various angles, the 
mirror M is provided, so that the rays may be reflected to 
the lens from the mirror. By means of the graduated disk 
D the mirror M can be rotated so as to reflect the rays pro- 
ceeding from the lamp when placed in varied positions. 
The angle of reflection may be read from the graduations 
xmder the pointer shown at the disk D. 

[The loss of light by absorption at the mirror and lens 
affects the reliability of this photometer. But possibly cor- 
rections may be provided. — K.] 

ST'. I>ivislon of the Cnn-ent. This sub- 
ject is of importance in considering the construction of the 
latest light regulators. If, as in Fig. 58, from any source of 
current, B, the circuit, S, be 
run, at the point, a, be di- 
vided into two, 5i and 5,, and 
joined at 6, the current which 
passes in the circuit will be 
divided between the two 
branches in inverse propor- 
tion to the electrical resist- 
ances of these two branches. 

If the resistances of the 
two branches are the same ; for example, if the wires are 
of the same diameter and length, the current will be equally 
divided between them. If, on the contrary, the resistances 
are unequal, the strength of current is smaller in that 



FiQbS8. 



B":r 




Divinon 0/ Currents^ 



98 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Therefore it follows that 

The total resistance, then, of both branches is equal to 

The last series of equations are then : 
E ^ C R -\- Cirj, 
^ = C JJ + c^r^ , 
O = Cjri — c^r^. — K.] 



PART III. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



SS« Tlie IMagneto-electrlc IMCaehines 
of nxil, Saxton A Clar-ke. The first person 
who put the principles considered in Part I into practice 
was probably Pixii. As ^^ 

early as 1833, he construct- 
ed the magneto-electric 
machine shown in Fig. 59. 

The crank is used to 
impart motion to the mag- 
net fastened to the top of 
the upright shaft, by 
means of the bevel-gear 
wheels, in obvious man- 
ner. The changes of mag- 
netism thereby produced 
in the core of the electro- 
magnet induce currents in 
the wire coils thereof, .^ 
which are conducted to 2 
the external arc of the cir- ^- 
cuit by the wires shown 
alongside of the standards 
of the frame. These currents have alternate, or to and fro, 
directions. But in the majority of cases it is desirable to 
have them flow in the external arc of the circuit in one 
direction. To effect this, an instrument called a Commuta- 
tor^ or Current-changer, is used. 




Pixits Magneto-electric Machine. 



100 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 




Commuiator. 



Commutators diflfer in construction, according to the 
number of current-changes due to each rotation. The sim- 
plest form is that for machines which make but two changes 
in direction of currents for each rotation, as is the case with 
Pixii's machine. 

Fig. 60 is a diagram which shows the electrical construc- 
tion of the Commutator. Two half -cylinders A B are placed 
opposite to each other, and are kept 
separate by a piece of ivory, hard- 
rubber, F G, or other insulating mate- 
rial. This arrangement is fastened to 
the shaft of the machine, so as to ro- 
tate with it. Springs C and D press 
upon the cylinder, and are fastened in 
such a position that the insulating 
piece F G comes under the springs at 
the moment of change in direction of 
the current. If one end of the wire of 
the armature coil be connected with A and the other with 
B, current will flow out of it through C H J and D into B, 
until such time as B comes to C, when the current having 
changed direction, flows out of B through the same course 
into A. So C becomes continually the positive and D the 
negative pole of the machine, analogous to like poles of a 
galvanic battery. 

[As Pixii rotated the magnet and the commutator to- 
gether, while the armature coil was at rest, the manner of 
utilizing the commutator is somewhat more complicated 
than if the coil and commutator were rotated. It will be 
noticed that four springs are used, and the commutator is 
made so that the two springs directly connected with the 
coils bear continually each upon one-half, while the two 
springs connected with the external portion of the circuit 
bear alternately upon the halves. In apparatus in which 
the induction-coil is rotated, each end of the wire may be 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



101 



connected directly with its appropriate half of the commu- 
tator. See Figs. 59 to 64.— K.] 

As at the point of change of direction of current a break 
in the circuit takes place, more or less intense electric 
sparks appear, according to the strength of current, which 
melts the metal of the commutators and brushes, so that 
they wear away very rapidly ; so much so that these ma- 
chines could not be utilized in industries. 

[It seems, in the light of more recent experience, that 
the excessive wear at the commutator is due to the want of 
sufficient knowledge of the best construction and materials 

Fio. 81. 




Clark/s Magneto-electric Machine, 



for commutator and springs, and that more sparks came 
from imperfect contact than from any other practical 
difficulty. Machines for alternate currents do not need a 
commutator. If the coil is fixed, the currents are taken 
direct. If the coil is moved, the currents are taken off by 



108 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



springs pressing upon two cylinders, which are each con* 
nected with its respective end of the wire. — K.] 

The next step was made by Saxton and by Clarke, each 
of whom rotated the armature instead of the magnet. 
Saxton gave them a horizontal position. Clarke rotated 
the inductor at the side of the magnet, which had a vertical 
position. 

[Modified forms of Pixii's and Clarke's machines are 
still used for medical purposes, both for currents of one, or 
for alternate, direction. Figures 62 and 63 show commuta- 
tors for Pixii's and for Clarke's machines. 



Pio. 62. 



Fie. 68. 





Commutator for Pixtft Machine. 



Commutator /or darkens Mackine. 



A is the shaft, C the halves of the commutator, B the 
body, which must be of some insulating material, such as 
wood, ivory, or hard-rubber. D D the springs or wires con- 
nected with the ends of the coils, and E E the springs which 
are connected with the external arc of the circuit. — K.] 



^i>. Stohx-er's jMag-ne to-electric ^Ma- 
eliiiie. Stohrer, of Leipzig, seems to have been the first 
to construct a large magneto-machine for electric light, by 
multiplying the number of both the magnet poles and coils* 
Fig. 64 represents Stohrer's machine with three magnets, 
having six poles at equal distances from each other in a cir- 
cle, and over these poles six electro-magnet coils forming 
the armature. The cores of these coils are fastened to an 



HAGNBTO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



103 



iron disk common to all, and that to the upright shaft which 
is made to rotate rapidly by means of the pulleys and belt. 

The convolutions of each coil are so arranged that the 
currents generated by approach in each case are in common 
direction, and so also that the currents generated by 
recedence are in reverse common direction. The machine, 
theref orCj yields with every rotation six currents in each 
direction. Each one of these consist of six elementary cur- 
rents generated in the coils simultaneously, and which, on 
account of like direction, imite to form one strong current. 

Fto.64. 




^ ^^£.m^s^^ ^ 



Siohrer's Magneto-electric Machine. 



The commutator a 6, c d, is placed on the axis above the 
iron plate, and the metal springs bearing upon it are held 
upon a block of insulating material. Wires connect the 
springs with the binding-screws e /, which are the positive 
and negative poles of the machine. 

[The coils are all wound in the same direction and 



104 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

mounted alike, but the beginning ends of the alternate coils 
are connected with the terminating ends of the intermediate 
ones, and have an insulated common connection to the part 
of the commutator ab; the terminating ends of the alter- 
nate coils are connected with the beginning ends of the 
intermediate ones, and have a like connection with the part 
of the commutator c d. The commutator is of the same 
kind as is shown in Fig, 63, but is of imnecessarily modified 
form. — K.] 

It is evident that the strength of the current generated 
by the machine is dependent upon the strength of the mag- 
nets, the distance from the armature-cores of the magnet- 
poles, the number of convolutions of wire around the cores, 
and upon the rapidity of rotation. 

30. Tlie larg-e l^Tag-neto-electric Mla- 
ohine of the Society 1' Alliance and of 
Holmes. The favorable results obtained by Stohrer 
and various English experimenters, led to further experi- 
menting in the way of enlarging the size and number of 
parts, with the expectation of obtaining currents of such 
strength and quantity as to make it practicable to decom- 
pose water on a large scale for the production of hydrogen 
in large quantity. A number of large machines were pro- 
duced, of which those of the Society I'AUiance and of 
Holmes are most known. 

The Alliance machine, which is represented in Figs. 65 
and 66, as it was modified by Vaii Malderen, was first con- 
structed by Nollet, professor of physics of the war school at 
Brussels. Upon the axis of the machine is fastened a num- 
ber of brass disks at equal distances apart. Each one of 
these plates carries sixteen electro-magnet cores and coils, 
at equal distances apart, circumferentially, and with their 
axes parallel to the axis of the machine. Eight bars are 
fastened to the cast-iron ends of the machine, arranged at 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES, 



105 



equal distances apart, parallel to the axis, and at equal dis- 
tances therefrom. To each of these bars either three or 



Fio. 66. 




Magtitto-eUciric Machine o/ik* Society F Alliance, 



five compound permanent magnets are fastened, so that 
they stand radially, and in such position that the magnet 
coils mentioned rotate with their ends between the poles of 
the magnets. The magnet poles are so arranged that al- 
ways two unlike-named poles are opposed to ea^ch other 
whether taken parallel with the axis or in the plane of rota- 
tion. As each brass disk has 16 electro-magnet coils, and 



106 



DYNAHO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



as each circular series of magnets has 16 poles^ all assume 
the same relative position at once. 



Fto.OS. 




Vrrtieetl Section of Alliance Machine. 



As a rule one of the machines has either 4 or 6 brass 
disks, and this implies either 64 coils and 33 magnets, or 96 
coils and 48 magnets. One end of the total length of wire 
is fastened to the axis and is thereby in electrical connec- 
tion with the iron frame of the machine. The other end 
terminates in a metallic ring placed in a concentric posi- 
tion around the shaft, but insulated therefrom by proper 
insulating material. A spring bearing upon this ring takes 
the current to the exterior arc of the circuit. At every 
passage of a wire spool past a pole the current changes its 
direction. Therefore there are 16 changes of the current to 



HAONBTO-ELECTBIC MACHINSS. 107 

each 8i>ool to each rotation, making a total, at 400 rotations 
per minute, of 6400 changes — more than 100 per second. 
The machine is ran by an engine of 5 horse-power, and 
with 4 disks of coils gives an electric light of 150, and with 
6 disks' one of 200 Carcel burners (each 7 normal paraffine 
candles). 

[A very low duty compared with more modern ma- 
chines. — K.] 

The first machines of this kind had commutators to ob- 
tain currents in one direction, but it was only after Van 
Malderen abandoned the commutator that these machines 
came to be of practical value for the production of electric 
light. The theory, construction and mode of action of 
the Alliance machines have been best treated by Lb Roux 
in papers which he read before the Soci^te d'Encourage- 
ment, etc. : — 

'^As the current changes its direction more than 100 
times a second, its strength must sink to zero with every 
change, the arc of electric light, between the two carbon 
points, must be thereby interrupted, and lose its light- 
giving power 100 times per second, notwithstanding which 
the light appears to be continuous.* This is partially due 
to the fact that an impression of light on the retina contin- 
ues for a short time after the light is extinguished, and 
partially that the real arc of flame constitutes only part of 
the light, the other part being due to the white heat of the 
carbon ends not ceasing between the interruptions of the 
light. If, however, it be taken into consideration, on the 
other hand, that the tension of the current is not suflBLcient 
to enable it to leap from one carbon point to the other, and 
that the voltaic arc of flame can be blown out and remain 



* If the current be interrupted onlj ^ of a second no diminution of the light 
i0 perceptible ; but if the interruption exceeds ^ of a second the light will be 
extinguished. 



108 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

extinguished until the carbon points again touch each 
other, it is somewhat astonishing that such a large number 
of interruptions does not extinguish the light. It is not easy 
to demonstrate the facts. It is true that the tension of the 
current is not strong enough to enable the spark to spring 
across the space between the cold carbons ; but it is proba- 
ble that when they once become white-hot their immediate 
vicinity has more conducting power in consequence of ele- 
vation of temperature, and the glowing particles of carbon 
travelling between the two carbon points form a sort of 
conducting bridge between them. As the time of inter- 
mission is very short, the layer of air between the points 
lacks time to affect them in any noticeable way, and the 
electric current can proceed immediately after the inter- 
ruption. And, furthermore, with the velocity given, and 
the assumption that during the change of current the coil 
describes a curve of one millimetre, the duration of the in- 
terruption is but one ten-thousandth part of a second." 

Machines giving alternating currents, as is the case 
with the Alliance, have this advantage over those giving 
currents of one direction, in the fact that the carbon points 
of the electric lamp burn more uniformly, and the light-arc 
remains in the same place ; and in the fact that the alter- 
nate currents passing through the electro-magnet of the 
lamp, continually change its polarity and does not allow it 
to retain permanent magnetism, a circumstance of great 
influence upon the working of such regulators. 

[The former of these supposititious advantages is only 
of value with lamps in which both carbons are moved 
equally towards each other ; the latter is not understood. 
-K.] 

On the other hand alternate currents have the disad- 
vantage of making the light-arc unsteady, as it continually 
moves around the carbon points, illuminating the field im^ 
equally and intermittently. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 109 

The Alliance machines are in use in the light-houses of 
Cape la Heve (near the port of Havre), of Cape Gris-Nez, 
near Calais, of Cronstadt, Odessa, and other places. At 
the first place four large machines are working, which 
require two engines of 6 horse-power, and are given a ve- 
locity of 400 rotations a minute. The illuminating power, 
when measured outside the lenses surrounding the light, is 
3600 Carcel burners, when four disks of coils are used in 
each machine, and 5000 Carcels when 6 disks are used. 
The light can be plainly seen at the distance of 27 nautical 
miles, or 50 kilometers. 

These machines have been used in the production of 
electric light on board of ocean vessels, for night work in 
the building of bridges at Paris and Kehl, in the building 
of the new Louvre, in working on large buildings, on 
wharfs, and to illuminate tower clocks. These machines 
were used in the siege of Paris in 1870-71. On Mont Vale- 
rian, as well as on the top of Mont Martre and other places, 
large machines of this kind were placed in order to watch 
the operations of the enemy by aid of the light produced. 

Notwithstanding the fact that the Alliance machines 
work quite well, require only a small -propelling power, and 
the patents of the company have expired, nobody but the 
company itself build the machines. It may be because 
later machines have much greater advantages. Their con- 
struction is complicated, and hence interruptions in work- 
ing are frequent on account of disarrangements. The 
magnets are numerous and costly, are liable to deteriorate 
in attractive force, and thus lessen the capacity of the ma- 
chine.. Often the coils are torn from their places by the 
loosening of a single one, making heavy expense for repairs 
and costly detentions. AU these things must be considered 
in counting comparative cost of different machines. 

While the Alliance machine was exclusively constructed 
in France, the English physicist Holmes constructed a 



110 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



number of large magneto-electric machines on the same 
principles and for the same purposes. We will oiily speak 
of the one to which his last patent (Jime 5, 1869) refers. 
He does not rotate the coils in which the current is gener- 
ated, but fastens them, twenty in number, on the circular 
iron frame of the machine, and places five Y-shaped electro- 
magnets on a brass disk which is fastened to the axis of 
rotation. By rotation the poles of the electro-magnets are 
carried past the free ends of the cores of the fixed coils. 
Part of the current generated is employed to magnetize the 
electro-magnets. The number of fixed coils and their con- 
nections are such that several independent currents can be 
taken from the machine at the same time and used for 
several electric lamps. This machine produces alternate 
currents and requires a commutator to turn them in one 
direction. 

Fio. eB. 



Fro. 67. 



<=1^-^ = 



Vn. QSa. 

1 




Siemens Armatun, 



31. Tlie f^iemens' A^nxiature. [The ro- 
tating electro-magnets of magneto-electric and dynamo- 
electric machines have received the technical name of 
Armatures. Dr, Schellen calls them Inductors. As con- 
tusion is likely to arise from the use of that name in the 



MAGNETO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



Ill 



consideration of machines hereinafter, we shall substitute 
the accepted term of Armature. — K.] 

A great step was taken in the construction of magneto- 
electric machines by Dr. W. Siemens of Berlin, in 1857. 
He gave to the armature a form and position between the 
poles of the fixed magnets, which increased the inductive 
effect of the magnets, and shortened the interruptions to a 
marked degree. 

In its simplest form this armature consists of a cylinder 
of iron E, F and G (Figs. 67 and 68), which has had grooves 
cut upon opposite sides, each of a depth of | and a width of 
i of its diameter, making its cross-section something the 
shape of a letter H (Fig. 68). 

The groove is filled by winding insulated copper wire 
longitudinally in it. One end of this wire is fastened to the 
axis yy and the other is carried to a copper ring x placed 
concentrically over the axis, but insulated from it by an 

Fig. 09. 



p:"" 


1 


^^ 




£) 


o . 




>/ 




' " .^■^'■■^^- ' 


- -^ --..,-^1 





Position o/SiemtHs* Armature in relation to Magnets. 



inner ring of insulating material. [The groove is extended 
across the ends of the bar, so that the two sides project 
sufficiently for fastening them endwise to the faces of two 
disks of brass H H, or other non-magnetic metal. These 
disks have axial extensions to nm in bearings, and to 
receive the pulley K and the ring x, or a commutator L L', 
if the currents are to be turned in one direction. — K.] 

Figs. 69 and 70 show the position which the armature E 
has between the poles of the permanent magnets, and the 



112 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



manner in which motion is imparted. The permanent mag- 
nets dre placed with like poles on the same side, and are 
fastened so as to remain parallel with spaces between them. 
The poles have a groove m m, within which the armature 
freely rotates, the faces of the grooves being concentric with 
the circle described by the armature. 

The magnets may be either bars with the cross-bar n 
(Fig, 69), or have the shape of an inverted U, or horseshoe, 
as in Fig. 70. 

The armature is rotated in obvious manner. Springs are 
provided, one of which presses upon the axis of the arma- 



FiG. 70. 




Magneto-Mackiney with Siemefu A rmature. 



ture and the other upon the copper ring on the axis. Wires 
X y serve to conduct the alternate currents produced. 

In cases where desirable to commutate the currents, a 
commutator like that shown in Fig. 63 is used. 

[It will be seen that the Siemens' Armature has a very 
short magnetic axis, and so changes its magnetic condition 
rapidly. Its axis of rotation is long, which gives it great 
carrying capacity for the wire coil. No currents are gener- 
ated in the coil during the passage of the poles of the 



HAQNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



113 




armature by the poles of the magnets, but only when the 
receding edges of the poles of the armature are leaving the 
magnet-poles, and the forward edges are approaching, — K.] 



114 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Siemens' ]\l!ag*iieto-Eleetr*ie AAsLfiiL 
IMCa^ebiiiie. Fig. 71 shows a modified form of the last 
described machine, which has been used to ring railroad 
alarms and signals. 

The description of the circuits and arrangements as 
given in the description of the previous machine, apply to 
this. 

. 33. AVilde's TMEagrnieto-Eleetirlc TMEa- 
cliiiie. A further advance was made by Henry Wilde, 
of Manchester, England. He used Siemens' Armature to 
carry out his idea. 

On the 13th of April, 1866, Wilde communicated to tho 
Royal Society in London a number of the experiments 
which he had performed with his new magneto-electric 
machine. The machine consisted of a combination of two 
Siemens' Armatures, one of which rotated between the 
poles of permanent magnets, and the other between the 
poles of larger electro-magnets. The current from the first 
armature was by a commutator conducted through the coils 
of the large electro-magnet, and the current from the second 
was used in making incandescent platinum or iron wires, 
for the electro-deposition of metals from their solutions, 
and for the production of electric light. 

Fig. 72 shows this magneto-electric machine in perspec- 
tive. The upper machine M M consists of 13 steel magnets 
and a Siemens' Armature, like the machine described in 
Section 31, and illustrated by Fig. 70. The lower machine 
has one very large electro-magnet E M, and a. correspond- 
ing Siemens' Armature. The limbs or cores of this magnet 
are of rolled iron 18 centimetres high, around which 1000 
metres of thick copper wire are wound, in a direction paral- 
lel with the armature, and so as to generate unlike poles at 
C C. The lower armature L is made to rotate 1700 to 1800 
times a minute. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



115 



The two ends of the wire of the large electro-magnet are 
fastened to the clamps c c, which are insulated on the upper 
iron plate. The wires attached to the springs bearing upon 
the commutator of the small armature are inserted into the 
same clamps. 

More or less rapid rotation of the upper armature, by the 
corresponding generation of current, makes the electro- 
magnet of the desired strength. Thus the large electro- 



Jha.n. 



KU 




WiUU^s Magntto-EUUric Mackme. 



magnet becomes very much stronger than the 13 steel 
magnets, and correspondingly the rotation of the lower 
armature gives rise to very much stronger currents. In one 



116 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

of the first of Wilde's machines, the 13 steel magnets had a 
sustaining strength of 160 kilogrammes, and by the influ- 
ence of the magneto-electric currents generated by rotating 
the upper armature the electro-magnet attained the sustain- 
ing strength of 5000 kilogrammes. It is evident that there 
was an enormous increase in the currents generated by the 
second armature. 

Wilde proceeded still farther, and made a machine in 
which the current generated in the second armature was 
conducted around a second still larger electro-magnet, and 
from the third still larger armature the current was utilized. 
This machine exceeded in capacity everything which had 
preceded it. 

On the 2d of March, 1867, a series of experiments was 
made in Burlington House, London, with this machine in 
the presence of Sabine and other scientific celebrities. This 
was reported by the " Athenaeum " as follows : 

'^ The machine was something imposing in size, as the 
electro-magnets had limbs four feet high and ten inches 
thick, with fourteen hundred |lounds of copper wire. [Ger- 
man weight and measure. — K.] The armature was rotated 
with the rapidity of fifteen hundred rotations per minute 
by an engine of fifteen horse-power, outside of the building. 
The armatures fiew round and round, every rotation send- 
ing new electric currents into the electro-magnets, when 
suddenly the free current from the machine was led with 
full force into an electric lamp at the other end of the room, 
and immediately produced an intense electric light before 
the eyes of the spectators, which blinded them as much as 
the luminosity of the mid-day sun, illuminating every cor- 
ner and angle of the large hall with a splendor which sur- 
passed the sunlight. In contrast, the gas fiames in the 
middle of the room looked brown. A lens, by condensing 
the rays of light, burned holes in paper, and the heat could 
plainly be felt at a distance of 150 feet by the outstretched 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 117 

hand. Then a long loop of iron wire was put in the circuit ; 
in a few moments it glowed, assumed a dark-red color, 
became white hot, and fell to the floor in glowing pieces. 
In the same way a short piece of iron, of the thickness of 
the small finger, was melted and burned. But all these 
experiments were exceeded by the melting of the most 
infusible metal, a bar of platinum one-quarter of an inch in 
diameter and two feet in length.'' [This no doubt was true, 
and the machine was the wonder of the day. But several 
other machines have since been made which have gener- 
ated greater currents. — K.] 

Wilde's machine soon was applied to industrial purposes, 
such as electroplating in the establishment of Elkinton in 
Birmingham, where it was extensively used. Another 
factory at Whitechapel employed the current from this 
machine for the production of ozone to be used for bleach- 
ing. In the extensive photographic galleries of Woodbury 
and of Saxon & Co.y a Wilder s machine served for the pro- 
duction of electric light, in order to facilitate the process of 
photographic printing ; for by its aid that could go on by 
night and in all weathers. In this establishment, the ma- 
chine is said to have worked day and night, so that the 
production of the sharpest photographic prints were guar- 
anteed within twenty-four hours after the taking of the 
negative. The Society I'Alliance acquired the right to 
make use of the apparatus for illumination of light-houses 
in France. 

Notwithstanding these enormous accomplishments, 
Wilde's machine has not come into extensive use. It is to 
be noticed that from the extraordinary rapidity of the rota- 
tion of the armatures, and the consequent rapid changes of 
polarity, they become highly heated, and then the intensity 
of the current weakens. It has not been possible to sustain 
an electric light for eight or ten hours without interruption. 



118 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

and this does not meet the requirements of light-houses and 
of the arts. 

[Wilde, in later machines, made the pieces of hrass 
(Fig. 72) which separate the poles C C of the large electro- 
magnet, and which also are close to the armature for nearly 
half its circumference, hollow for holding water, which was 
constantly renewed, and thus conducted away much of the 
heat. The pole-pieces of like machines have also been 
made hollow and used in the same manner. Ladd, in a 
like armature, contrived to nm a stream of water through 
it.— K.] 

It will easily be seen that the possibility of the magnetic 
growth in the electro-magnet is due to the slowness of 
magnetic molecular motion. In consequence of this, the 
magnetism acquired has not time to diminish between the 
successive currents delivered to it by the first armature, so 
the magnetism builds up, in spite of the intermittent char- 
acter of the currents ; and in its turn acts powerfully 
through the second armature to give rise to currents which 
are limited only by the mass of iron and copper used, and 
the power applied to the rotation of the armature. [The 
magnetic axis of the armatures being so much shorter, less 
time is required for magnetic changes, so we gain currents 
which would not be possible in the absence of this property 
of iron ; because magneto-electric currents are due entirely 
to magnetic changes, as we have seen. — K.] 

33. Deprez's IMag-neto-Electric ]Ma- 
eliiTie. Marcel Deprez endeavored to make an improve- 
ment in the previously described magneto-electric machines 
by further utilizing the magnetic field. He justly remarked 
that in the machines previously constructed only the induc- 
tive power of the ends of the poles had been utilized; 
probably because it had been assumed that the presence of 
magnetic masses, or of movable circuits that can be closed, 



KAGNBTO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 119 

at the poles considerably reduced the inductive power of 
the other parts of the magnet. 

This view is not correct, as is demonstrated by the results 
obtained with a small machine which he constructed This 
is shown in plan in Fig. 73. 

A B D is a permanent horse-shoe magnet, between the 
arms of which a Siemens' Armature F Q H C is placed, so 
as to be rotated on the 
axis F E. The commu- 
tator is at C, and the 
brushes at I and J. The 




Fie. 78. 

A 



conducting wires are con- I ^ t — pE <i ** q-^D^ 



nected electrically with 
these brushes. 

The length of the Sie- 
mens' Armature (§ 30) is 



J 



I 

B 



D*/rtM*s M»giut4hElgeirtc Mackint, 



nearly that of the inside straight parts of the arms of the 
magnet, so that the whole inductive power of the arms is 
utilized. The first model constructed had the following 
dimensions : 

Length of the horseshoe magnet measured from the end of 

the poles to the centre of the curve 145 millimetres. 

Width between the arms of magnet 88 " 

Thickness of the magnetic field 26 " 

Diameter of Siemens' Armature 82 " 

Length of core of Armature 60 " 

Weight of the magnet 1.70 kilogrammes. 

Weight of whole machine 2.85 

Deprez obtained with this small machine effects equal to 
those from three Bunsen cells. 

This machine is reversible, in the sense that it is an 
electric motor as well as a generator of electricity. The 
power developed when put into motion by connection with 
Bunsen cells was as follows : 

With 12 8 4 5 8 cells. 

was 0.04 0.20 0.45 0.75 1.10 1.80 kilogramme metres per second. 



120 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



[Mr. Edison has gained good results from a motor like 
this, only he used an electro-magnet in place of the perma- 
nent one. — K.] 

These results obtained by Deprez have been considered 
by others, as will be seen in the dynamo-electric machines 
constructed by Heinrich and Fitzgerald (see Part IV) in 
which the bobbins of the armatures are almost entirely 
enclosed by the poles of the electro-magnets. 

Fio. 74. 




L. 



De M^rit€ni Machine, 



34. The De Mleritens !M!a.elilne belongs 
to the class of magneto-electric like the Alliance, i. e., it 
produces currents of alternate, or to and fro direction. 



MAQNETO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 121 

Fn. 75. 




MainetO'EUctric Machine o/ Dt Mittens, 



Figures 74, 75, and 76 illustrate the machine quite well. 
!Eight horse-shoe, steel, compound magnets are fastened to 
the two massive bronze, ring-shaped frames, with their axes 
parallel to and concentric with the axis of rotation. 



Pio. 76. 




Details of De Mtriteni Machint, 

The armature consists of a wheel, fastened on the axis 
of rotation, having eight arms. Upon the rim of this wheel 
6 



122 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



are fajstened sixteen segment-shaped electro-magnets; as 
the wheel is rotated, they are carried close by the poles of 
the fixed magnets. 

For better comprehension of the manner in which the 
currents are generated, we may consider only two magnets 
with four poles (Fig. 77), instead of the full number. 

This corresponds to a ring consisting of four segments, 

Fia. 77. 




Diagram of De M/rittiu? Maekint. 



which are magnetically insulated from one another and 
wound with wire. Each of these iron cores consists of fifty 
or more pieces of sheet iron 1 millimetre thick, shaped 
somewhat like a letter I. In the hollow around this core 
the wire is wound, parallel to the axis of rotation. These 
segmental electro-magnets are fastened to the rim of the 
wheel, but with insulating copper pieces C D between their 
ends, to make a complete circle composed of sixteen electro- 
magnets. Fig. 76 shows the construction more in detail, 
but omits the copper insulations. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 123 

If we consider one of the segmental electro-magnets in 
Fig. 77 as rotating from left to right, as the iron head B 
approaches the magnetic south pole S, an induced current 
is generated in the segment A B in the reverse direction of 
the Ampere currents of the pole S ; and further, the S pole 
will generate a north pole in the iron core of the segment, 
which will traverse it from B to A, thereby generating a 
second induction current. These currents are assisted by a 
third, which is generated by the movement of the wire 
spool through the magnetic field. These currents are made 
as energetic as possible by making the least practicable 
distance between the wires and segmental core-heads and 
the permanent magnet-poles. As the head B leaves the 
pole S, currents of reverse direction to those due to the 
approach are generated, as in other cases of like character. 

The wires are wound in the same direction on all the 
spools. The beginning end of one spool is soldered to the 
beginning end of the next spool in one direction, say for- 
ward. The terminating end of the one spool is fastened to 
the terminating end of the next 
spool backward. The diagram. 
Fig. 78, shows the direction 
of winding and connecting. 
[Then alternate the direction 
of connection through the 

, - , .., ., , . Diagram of Dt MMitn^ Windmg, 

whole number, until the last — 

K.] The two ends of the wire may be regarded as the 
poles, and are carried to two copper rings fastened con- 
centrically on the axis, but insulated from it and from each 
other. Copper springs, one to each ring, take the alternate 
currents, and conduct them to two clamps, or binding-posts, 
from which the wires of the external portion of the circuit 
are run. 

An important advantage of the De M6ritens machine is 
in the fact that the coils, or bobbins, can be easily separated 




1^4 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

for repairs, and can be wound readily and in detail, whereas 
in Gramme's and Siemens' machines the winding of the 
rings, or cylinders, is accomplished with some diflSculty. 

Another advantage is in the fact that there is neither 
commutator nor current-collector needed. [The diflSculties 
mentioned about the Qramme and Siemens machines are 
more imaginary than real, and the advantages of those 
machines far outbalance any diflBculties by comparison 
with De Meritens' machine. — K.] 

According to many accounts, it appears that of all the 
magneto-electric machines having steel magnets, De Meri- 
tens gives the greatest light-effect for a given expenditure 
of power. 

One of these machines will sustain the light of three 
Jablochkoff candles continuously, without heating sensi- 
bly, at an expenditure of not exceeding one horse-power, at 
700 rotations per minute. The intensity of the light of 
these candles seems, however, to be less than with a 
Gramme or Siemens machine. 

With the largest light machines of these two kinds, De 
Meritens' machine cannot compare. But for small current 
effects, as for laboratory purposes, for physical cabinets, 
theatre effects, etc., it seems to have advantages. The 
alternate currents from this machine may be by a commu- 
tator turned in one constant direction. 

Gramme has constructed magneto-electric machines, but 
as their novel features are in their armatures, and as those 
are the ones principally used in dynamo-electric machines, 
they are thoroughly considered under that head. 

A large model of this machine has been adopted by the 
British government for use in light-houses. Such an one 
is shown by Fig. 79. It is made up of five single machines 
combined in one frame. The shaft carries five armatures. 
The permanent inducing magnets are each made up of 
eight lamin8B of steel, and they are arranged radially, at 



MAGNETO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



125 



equal distances around the circle, with their poles close to 
the periphery of the armature. 



Vna. 79. 




TAg nnu^ largt MotUl^ Dt Mcrit€ni Machine, 

The machine resembles in general appearance the Alli- 
ance machine, but its armature is essentially different, and 
much more eflBcient. It is capable of supplying two sepa- 
rate circuits of lamps. Four copper rings, insulated from 
each other and from the shaft, but fastened to it, serve to 



126 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



conduct the currents generated in the armature coils to the 
circuits through the springs which press on them. These 
are shown within the cylindrical space at the front end of 
the machine. (Fig. 79.) 

The ends of the armature coils can be connected with 
the contact rings in various ways, so as to vary the electro- 
motive force and current strength of the apparatus. The 
weight of the 40 magnets is 1080 kilogrammes, and their 
lifting power is 8000 kilogrammes. When run by eight- 
horse power and at a speed of 790 rotations per minute, it 
gives an electric arc light equal to 636 carcels from a Serrin 
lamp. When worked to its fullest capacity, it can feed 

Fw. 80. 




De Mirit€ns^ Machine /or Continuous Currents. 



thirty Jablochkoff candles. These machines are mainly 
used in light-houses of England and France, because they 
run with ease and simplicity. 



MAQNETO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 127 

De Meritens has constructed a magneto-electric machine 
for continuous currents. This is illustrated in Fig. 80. The 
number of field-magnet poles is reduced to four, as shown 
in the diagram, Fig. 77. The magnets have sixty-four 
laminaB of steel of 1 millimetre thickness, and are fastened 
in place parallel with the shaft by two bronze rings, which 
together form the stand or supports. The armature is 
rotated within the cylindrical space so formed by the mag- 
nets. Sixteen long cogs project radially from the periphery 
of the wheel which carries the armature coils. 

The coils are wound upon a form made up of thin plates 
of iron cut somewhat like a double comb, and of a length to 
fit between the long cogs. As these forms have each three 
teeth, four spaces are left between each of the sixteen long 
cogs, or sixty-four spaces in all. The coils fill these spaces. 
The ends of these sixty-four coils are connected together to 
form a series, but a loop to the commutator, or collector 
rather, is led off from between each two spools. The col- 
lector is made up of sixty-four segments insulated from 
each other, and held together as a cylindrical whole. Each 
segment is connected with a loop. 

From the remarks made about Fig. 77, it will be gathered 
that from every two diametrically opposite points of the 
armature circuit, currents of the same 
direction and strength may be taken. ^^ ^" 

Four systems of currents are formed, 
which have the maximum intensity 
at the points opposite the poles, and 
the minimum at the lines midway 
between the poles where they change '"^'^%'^;;ZTJZ^'' 
their direction, as indicated by the 

cross lines in Fig. 77. At these four points the brushes 
are placed as in the Gramme machines. Two continuous 
currents are obtained, which may be combined as desired, 
either in series, or parallel. Machines of this kind are 




128 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

specially recommended for charging accmnulators^ or stor- 
age batteries, and for electrolytic purposes, as the current 
remains very constant, and reversal of polarity is not possi- 
ble, as in case of the series dynamo machines. [The shunt- 
wound dynamos, considered hereinafter, are better suited 
for electrolytic work and the charging of electric reservoirs, 
accumulators, or storage batteries, as they are stronger, 
and their polarity as well caimot be reversed by return- 
currents.— K.] 



PART IV- 

DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

355. SiemeTis' Principle of DynAmo- 
electric IVIctcliiTies. Priority In fttvor of 
Siemens a.g-a.inst AfVlieAtstone. At the Paris 
Exposition, in 1867, a machine was exhibited in the English 
section of the machine gallery, which bore the sign "Dy- 
na^nO'MagnetO'Machine. New Principle of Conversion of 
Dynamic Force, by W. Ladd." The two armatures were 
moved by the general power in the gallery, and gave a 
blinding electric light, without the use of a galvanic bat- 
tery, and without perceptible magnetism when at rest. 
The machine attracted considerable attention, as the princi- 
ple was new to the public generally. 

The professional man understood the new principle of 
the conversion of mechanical to electrical energy, as that 
had been communicated by Dr. W. Siemens to the Berlin 
Academy in January, 1867 ; and a machine made on that 
principle, of small size, however, to be moved by hand, was 
then in the Prussian section of the gallery. 

The part that Ladd had taken in the development of 
dynamo-electriCy or dynamo-magnet machines, will be seen 
further on. But we must here explain that his claims in 
no way refer to the theoretical principles of the machine, 
but only to the arrangement of the parts. 

After Siemens had experimented with the new machine, 
built on this principle, in presence of several Berlin physi- 
cists, as early as December, 1866, he conmiunicated the 

129 



130 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

facts to the Berlin Academy of Sciences, and his communi- 
cation came before a meeting of the society the middle of 
January, 1867. 

As the contents of this communication are conclusive in 
establishing his priority in the discovery of the principles 
of dynamo-electric machines, and as the principles are 
clearly defined and expressed therein, we print the paper 
as it was in the February number of Poggendorflf's Anna- 
len (1867). 

" On the Conversion of Mechanical Force into the Elec- 
tric Current, without the use of Permanent Magnets. By 
W. Siemens. 

" If two parallel wires, each of which forms a part of 
separate galvanic circuits, are made to approach or recede 
from each other, changes in the strength of the currents in 
them are effected, and the character of these changes de- 
pends upon the relative directions of the two currents. 
The same phenomena occur, only in more marked degree, 
when the pole-ends of two electro-magnets, whose convolu- 
tions are parts of the same circuit, are made to approach or 
recede from each other. If the direction of the current in 
the wire be reversed at the moment of either the nearest 
approach or greatest withdrawal, as is mechanically done 
with the armatures of electro-magnetic machines^ a lasting 
decrease of the current of the circuit is noticed as soon as 
the machine is put in motion. This decrease in the cur- 
rent, which is due to opposing forces generated in the ap- 
paratus, prevents the successful use of electro-magnetic 
machines, or motors, driven by galvanic batteries. 

''But if one of these machines be moved by exterior 
power, mechanically applied, the current must be strength- 
ened by the induced currents which have the same direc- 
tion^ As this increase in the current strengthens the 
electro-magnets, and these again increase the current in 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 131 

such rapid progression, the battery may be omitted without 
noticing any diminution of the current. 

" If the rotation be interrupted the current disappears, 
and the stationary electro-magnets lose their magnetism. 
The minute quantity of magnetism which always remains, 
even in the softest iron, after being once magnetized, suffices 
to start the progressive growth of current anew when the 
armature is again rotated. Hence it only requires the cur- 
rent from a galvanic battery to be passed through the convo- 
lutions of the stationary electro-magnets for a short time to 
make the apparatus capable of action for all time. The 
direction of the current which the apparatus produces is 
dependent upon the polarity of the residual magnetism. If 
the same be changed by a current through the convolutions 
in the contrary direction, all subsequent movements of the 
armature give rise to reversed currents. 

" The action just described must occur in every electro- 
magnetic machine, based upon attraction and repulsion of 
electro-magnets, the convolutions of which form parts of 
one and the same closed circuit. 

" The stationary magnet encircled by commutated cur- 
rents in one direction must have sufficient magnetic lazi- 
ness to retain the greatest degree possible of magnetism 
without weakening during change of current. To effect 
this the pole-faces opposite each other must be so arranged 
that the magnetic circuit of the stationary electro-magnet 
remains closed by iron in their vicinity, while the movable 
electro-magnet rotates. These conditions are best met by 
the armature proposed by myself some time ago, and sub- 
sequently much used by myself and others. This arma- 
ture consists of an iron cylinder rotating upon its axis. 
The cylinder is provided with two opposite grooves parallel 
with the axis, which grooves carry the convolutions of the 
insulated wire. The pole-ends of the stationary electro- 
magnets encircle the circumference of this iron cylinder its 



132 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

whole len^h with the smallest possible intermediate space. 
(§ 31.) Currents of great strength can be generated by 
such a machine, if the proportions of the several parts have 
been correctly determined and the commutator correctly 
placed. Bapid rotation with closed circuits of small resist- 
ance generates so much heat from the current as to car- 
bonize the insulating material covering the wires. For 
continuous use this heat must be avoided by introduction 
of something resisting, or by decreasing the speed of 
rotation. 

"While the effects of the magneto-electric machines do 
not increase in proportion to increase in their dimensions, 
the contrary is the case with the machine described. The 
reason of this is in the fact that the strength of steel mag- 
nets does not increase in proportion with the mass of steel 
necessary for their production, and that the magnetic force 
of a large number of small steel magnets cannot be concen- 
trated on a small pole-surface without weakening the power 
of all the magnets to a marked degree, or of neutralizing 
some of them completely. Magnetic machines having steel 
magnets are therefore not adapted to the production of 
very strong continuous currents. Attempts have been 
made several times to produce strong magneto-electric ma- 
chines, and some have been made to give an intense elec- 
tric light; but they were necessarily made of enormous 
dimensions and consequently were very costly. (For in- 
stance the Alliance and Wilde machines.) The steel mag- . 
nets soon lost the greatest part of their magnetism, and 
therefore the machine its strength. 

"Of late the mechanic Wilde, of Birmingham, has 
enlarged the capabilities of action of magneto-electric ma- 
chines to a great degree, by combining two of my arma- 
tures just described to one machine. The larger armature 
is repeated between the poles of a large electro-magnet 
which is magnetized by the current generated in the 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 133 

smaller armature rotated between the poles of permanent 
magnets ; so that the large electro-magnet becomes much 
stronger than the steel magnets which it replaces can. 
Consequently the current must be proportionately stronger. 

" It is easily seen that Wilde has to a great extent obvi- 
ated the described disadvantages of steel-magnet machines 
by his combination. Independent of the inconvenience 
attending the use of two armatures for the generation of 
one useful current^ his apparatus remains dependent upon 
the unreliability of steel magnets. Means are now given to 
technology for the generation of electric currents of unlim- 
ited strength in a cheap and convenient manner^ in every 
place where mechanical power is available. This fact is of 
great importance in many respects." 

In this paper by W. Siemens not only are the principles 
clearly shown of the new machine, but also the conditions 
to be observed in perfecting its construction. By request 
of Dr. W. Siemens, of Berlin, his brother, William Siemens, 
of London, had a small dynamo-electric machine made, 
and announced an address to the Royal Society with the 
following title : *' On the conversion of Dynamical into 
Electrical Force without the aid of permanent magnetism^^ 
for the 14th of February, 1867. The announcement was 
made by circular two weeks in advance. 

After this announcement Prof, Wheatstone announced 
an address for the same meeting under the title, " On the 
augmentation of the power of a magnet by the reaction 
thereon of currents induced by the magnet itself, ^^ 

At the meeting of the royal society Wheatstone followed 
Siemens with his address, and it then appeared that both 
physicists treated on pretty much the same facts, princi- 
ples and conclusions in their addresses. 

[As nearly all the mechanical generators of electricity 
in practical use are of this class, which depends upon the 
so-called principle of " Mutual Accumulation," a verbatim 



134 DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

copy is here given of each of the papers read at that meet- 
ing by these gentlemen, from the "Proceedings'' of the 
society.— K.] 

[**0n the Conversion of Dynamical into Electrical Force, 
without the aid of Permanent Magnetism. By C. W. 
Siemens, F.RS. Received Feb'y 4, 1867. 

"Since the great discovery of magnetic electricity by 
Faraday, in 1830, electricians have had recourse to mechan- 
ical force for the production of their most powerful effects ; 
but the power of the magneto-electrical machine seems to 
depend in an equal measure upon the force expended on the 
one hand, and upon permanent magnetism on the other. 

" An experiment, however, has been lately suggested to 
me by my brother, Dr. Werner Siemens, of Berlin, which 
proves that permanent magnetism is not requisite in order 
to convert mechanical into electrical force, and the result 
obtained by this experiment is remarkable, not only be- 
cause it demonstrates this hitherto unrecognized fact, 
but also because it provides a simple means of producing 
very powerful electrical effects. 

"The apparatus employed in this experiment is an elec- 
tro-magnetic machine consisting of one or more horse-shoes 
of soft iron, surrounded with insulated wire in the usual 
manner, of a rotating keeper of soft iron surrounded also 
with an insulated wire, and of a commutator connecting 
the respective coils in the manner of a inagneto-electric 
machine. If a galvanic battery were connected with this 
arrangement, rotation of the keeper in a given direction 
would ensue. If the battery were excluded from the cir- 
cuit and rotation imparted to the keeper in the opposite 
direction to that resulting from the galvanic current, there 
would be no electrical effect produced. Supposing the 
electro-magnets were absolutely free of magnetism, but by 
inserting a battery of a single cell in the circuit, a certain 



DYNAMO-ELBGTRIG MACHINES. 135 

magnetic condition would be set up, causing similar mag- 
netic poles to be forcibly approached to each other, and 
dissimilar poles to be forcibly severed, alternately, the rota- 
tion being contrary in direction to that which would be 
produced by the exciting current. 

'^ Each forcible approach of similar poles must augment 
the magnetic tension and increase consequently the power 
of the circulating current ; the resistance of the keeper to 
the rotation must also increase at every step until it reaches 
a maximum, imposed by the available force and the con- 
ductivity of the wires employed. 

"The cooperation of the battery is only necessary for a 
moment of time after the rotation has commenced, in order 
to introduce the magnetic action, which will thereupon 
continue to accumulate without its aid. 

"With the rotation the current ceases; and if, upon 
restarting the machine, the battery is connelcted with the 
circuit tor a moment of time, with its poles reversed, then 
the direction of the continuous current produced by the 
machine will also be the reverse of what it was before. 

" Instead of employing a battery to commence the accu- 
mulative action of the machine, it suffices to touch the soft 
iron bars employed with a permanent magnet, or to dip the 
former into a position parallel to the magnetic axis of the 
earth, in order to produce the same phenomenon as before. 
Practically it is not even necessary to give any external 
impulse upon restarting the machine, the residuary mag- 
netism of the electro-magnetic arrangements employed be- 
ing found sufficient for that purpose. 

"The mechanical arrangement best suited for the pro- 
duction of these currents is that originally prepared by Dr. 
Werner Siemens, in 1857, consisting of a cylindrical keeper 
hollowed at two sides for the reception of insulated wire 
wound longitudinally, which is made to rotate between the 
poles of a series of permanent magnets, which latter are at 



136 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

present replaced by electro-magnets. On imparting rota- 
tion to the armature of such an arrangement, the mechan- 
ical resistance is found to increase rapidly, to such an ex- 
tent that either the driving-strap commences to slip, or the 
insulated wires constituting the coils are heated to the ex- 
tent of igniting their insulating silk covering. 

"It is thus possible to produce mechanically the most 
powerful electrical or calorific effects without the aid of 
steel magnets, which latter are open to the practical objec- 
tion of losing their permanent magnetism in use." 

" On the Augmentation of the Power of a Magnet by the 
reaction thereon of Currents induced by the Magnet 
itself. By Charles Wheatstone, F.R.S. Received 
Feb'y 14th, 1867. 

"The magneto-electric machines which have been hith- 
erto described are actuated either by a permanent magnet 
<jr by an electro-magnet deriving its power from a rheomo- 
tor placed in the circuit of its coil. In the present note I 
intend to show that an electro-magnet, if it possesses at the 
commencement the slightest polarity, may become a power- 
ful magnet by the gradually augmenting currents which 
itself originates. 

"The following is a description of the form and dimen- 
sions of the electro-magnet I have employed. The con- 
struction, it will be seen, is the same as that of Mr. Wilde's 
machine. The core of the electro-magnet is formed of a 
plate of soft iron 15 inches in length and i an inch in 
breadth [evidently thickness, breadth not given ; probably 
about 8 inches — K.], bent at the middle of its length into a 
horse-shoe form. Round it is coiled, in the direction of its 
breadth, 640 feet of insulated copper wire ^ of an inch in 
diameter. The armature, which is according to Siemens' 
ingenious construction, consists of a rotating cylinder of 
soft iron, 8^ inches in length, grooved at two opposite sides 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 137 

80 as to allow the wire to be coiled upon it longitudinally ; 
the length of the wire thus coiled is 80 feet, and the diame- 
ter is the same as that of the electro-magnet coil. 

" When this electro-magnet is excited by any rheomotor 
the current from which is in a constant direction, during 
the rotation of the armature, currents are generated in its 
coil during each semi-revolution, which are alternately in 
opposite directions ; the alternate currents may be trans- 
mitted imchanged to another part of the circuit, or by 
means of a rheotrope be converted to the same direction. 

"If, now, while the circuit of the armature remains 
completed, the rheomotor be removed from the electro- 
magnet, on causing the armature to revolve, however rap- 
idly, it will be found by interposition of a galvanometer, or 
any other test, that but very slight effects take place. 
Though these effects become stronger in proportion to the 
residual magnetism left in the electro-magnet from the pre- 
vious action of a current, they never attain any considera- 
ble amount. 

" But if the wires of the two circuits be so joined as to 
form a single circuit, in which the currents generated by 
the armature, after being changed to the same direction, 
act so as to increase the existing polarity of the electro- 
magnet, very different results will be obtained. The force 
required to move the machine will be far greater, showing 
a great increase of magnetic power in the horse-shoe ; and 
the existence of an energetic current in the wire is shown 
by its action on a galvanometer, by its heating 4 inches of 
platinum wire .0067 in diameter, by its making a powerful 
electro-magnet, by its decomposing water, and by other 
tests. 

"The explanation of these effects is as follows: — The 
electro-magnet always retains a slight residual magnetism, 
and is therefore in the condition of a weak permanent mag- 
net, the motion of the armature occasions feeble currents 



138 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in alternate directions in the coils thereof, which, after be- 
ing reduced to the same direction, pass into the coils of the 
electro-magnet in such a manner as to increase the mag- 
netism of the iron core ; the magnet having thus received 
an accession of strength, produces in its turn more ener- 
getic currents in the coils of the armature, and these alter- 
nate actions continue until the maximum is attained, 
depending on the rapidity of the motion and the capacity 
of the electro-magnet. 

"If the two coils be connected in such a manner that 
the rectified current from the coil of the armature passes 
into the coil of the electro-magnet in the direction which 
would impart a contrary magnetism to the iron core, no 
current is produced, and consequently there is no augmen- 
tation of magnetism. 

"It is easy to prove that the residual magnetism of the 
electro-magnet is the determining cause of these powerful 
effects. For this purpose it is suflScient to pass a current 
from a voltaic battery, a magneto-electric machine, or any 
other rheomotor, into the coil of the electro-magnet in 
either direction, and it will invariably be found that the 
direction of the current, however powerful it may eventu- 
ally become, is in accordance with the polarity of the mag- 
netism impressed on the iron core. 

"If, instead of the currents in the coil of the rotating 
armature being reduced to the same uniform direction, 
they retain their alternations, no effects, or, at most, very 
small differential ones, are produced, as no accumulation 
of magnetism then takes place. 

"I will now call attention to the fact that stronger 
effects are produced at the first moment of completing the 
combined circuit than afterwards. The machine having 
been put in motion, at the first moment of completing the 
circuit 4 inches of platina were made red-hot, but immedi- 
ately afterwards the glow disappeared and only about one 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 139 

inch of the wire could be kept at a red heat. This diminu- 
tion of effect was accompanied by a great increase of the 
resistance of the machine. The cause of the momentary 
strong effect was, that the machine, from its acquired mo- 
mentum, continued its motion for a few seconds, though it 
required a stronger force than could be applied to continue 
that motion. Each time the circuit is broken and recom- 
pleted the same effect occurs. 

"On bringing the primary coil of an induct orium 
(Ruhmkoff's coil) into the circuit formed by connecting the 
coils of the electro-magnet and rotating armature, no spark 
occurs in the secondary coil. On account of the great 
resistance of the circuit, which now also includes the 
primary coil of the inductorium, the current is not in 
sufficient quantity to produce any noticeable inductive 
effect. 

" A very remarkable increase of all of the effects, accom- 
panied by a diminution in the resistance of the machine, is 
observed when a cross-wire is placed so as to divert a great 
portion of the current from the electro-magnet. The four 
inches of platinum wire, instead of flashing into redness 
and then disappearing, remains permanently ignited. The 
inductorium, which before gave no spark, now gave one a 
quarter of an inch in length, water was more abundantly 
decomposed, and all the other effects were similarly in- 
creased. 

" I account for this augmentation in the following way : 
Though so much of the current is diverted from the electro- 
magnet by the cross-wire, the magnetic effect still continues 
to accumulate, though not to so high a degree ; but the cur- 
rent generated by the armature, passing through the short 
circuit formed by the armature branch and the short wire, 
experiences a far less resistance than if it had passed 
through the armature and electro-magnet branches, and 
though the electro-motive force is less, the resistance hav- 



140 DYNAMO-EL.ECTRIC MACHINES. 

ing been rendered less in much greater proportion, the 
resultant effect is greater. 

" I must observe that a certain amount of resistance in 
the cross-wire is necessary to produce the maximum effect. 
If the resistance be too small, the electro-magnet does not 
acquire suflBcient magnetism ; and if it be too great, though 
the magnetism becomes stronger, the increase of resistance 
more than counterbalances its effect. 

"But the effects already described are far inferior to 
those obtained by causing them to take place in the cross* 
wire itself. With the same application of force, 7 inches 
of platinum wire were made red-hot, and sparks were 
elicited in the inductorium 2i inches in length. 

** The force of two men was employed in these as well as 
in other experiments. When the interrupter of the primary 
coil was fixed, the machine was much easier to move than 
when it acted. For when the interrupter acted, at each 
moment of interruption the cross-wire being, as it were, 
removed, the whole current passed through the electro- 
magnet, and consequently a greater amount of magnetic 
energy was excited, while in the intervals during which the 
cross-wire was complete, the current passed mainly through 
the primary coil. 

" The effects are much less influenced by a resistance in 
the electro-magnet branch than in either of the other 
branches. 

"To reduce the length of the spark in the inductorium 
(the primary coil of which was placed in the cross-wire) to 
i of an inch, it required the resistance of 5f inches of the 
fine platinum wire in the cross-wire, 5 inches in the arma- 
ture branch, and 4 in the electro-magnet branch. 

" When there was no extra resistance in either of the 
branches, the length of the cross-wire being only about a 
few feet, the intensity of the current in the electro-magnet 
branch, compared with that in the cross-wire, was as 1 : 60 ; 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 141 

and when the resistance of the primary coil of the induc- 
torium was interposed in the cross-wire, the relative inten- 
sities were as 1 : 42. 

^' In conclusion, I will mention that there is an evident 
analogy between the augmentation of the power of a weak 
magnet by means of an inductive action produced by itself, 
and that accumulation of power shown in the static electric 
machines of Holtz and others, which have recently excited 
considerable attention, in which a very small quantity of 
electricity directly excited is, by a series of inductive ac- 
tions, augmented so as to equal, and even exceed, the effects 
of the most powerful machines of the ordinary copstruc- 
tion."— K.] 

A comparison of the two addresses shows that the 
dynamo-electric machines of Wheatstone does not differ 
materially from that of Siemens. But the address of 
Wheatstone only contains the facts which had been pub- 
lished by Siemens six weeks previously, ajxd piLblicly proven 
by experiment. The reason for Wheatstone's claimed nov- 
elty in increasing the incandescent effect by using a branch 
circuit was simply that he made the respective resistances 
very uneven. The maximum of effect is had when the 
resistances of the two coils are the same. 

[The discovery of this principle of ** mutual accumula- 
tion," as it is now sometimes called, is claimed by other 
parties. Prof. Moses Q. Farmer, of Massachusetts, I believe 
claims priority ; though he did not apply for a patent until 
1873, and a patent was granted to him in 1875. His claim 
on that point reads as follows : " A dynamo-electric ma- 
chine, constructed substantially as set forth, in which the 
electro-magnetic field is sustained solely by the magnetism 
produced by currents which, circulating in it, are evolved 
from the armature which rotates in this field." Clearly, 
then, his patent is anticipated by these descriptions made 
by Siemens and Wheatstone in 1867. 



142 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Furthermore, a patent granted to Lontin and D'lvemois 
in the United States in 1869, shows a machine in which the 
magnetism is sustained solely by the currents from the 
armature. Holmes in his machine also used part of the 
currents to sustain the magnetism. Gramme, in his U. S. 
patent of 1871, describes a machine in which the current 
evolved by the armature sustains the magnetism of the 
machine. 

The following letter from Prof. Moses G. Farmer explains 
his claims as to priority in discovery of the principle of 
mutual accumulation : 

"Ablh^gton Heights, Feb. 10th, 1883. 
"K S. Keith, Esq. : 

*' Dear Sir— I have not all my notes at hand, but from 
what I have, I gather the following : 

" Some time in the early part of the year 1860, a friend 
described to me an invention which he had made many 
years previous, and which he called a cascade or cataract 
magneto-electric machine. 

"It was to be constructed in the following manner: 
There was to be a magneto-electric machine of the ordinary 
type, having a field formed by a permanent steel magnet. 
In the field of this magnet was to revolve an armature 
which was to generate a current of electricity that should 
energize a large electrO-magnet, which should form the 
second field of the magnetic cascade. In the electro- 
magnetic field of this second machine was to revolve a 
larger armature, which should furnish a current to support 
and supply the electro-magnetic field of a third and still 
larger magneto-electric machine, and the current from the 
armature of this third magneto-electric machine was to be 
used either for the purpose of performing useful external 
work or for exciting and maintaining the field of a much 
larger machine. It is evident that this series could be con- 



DTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 143 

tinued indefinitely, limited only by the power required to 
drive the several machines. While thinking over the pos- 
sibilities of this combination, the thought occurred to me, 
why not divert a portion of the current from the second 
armature of the series to support its own (second) electro- 
magnetic field. This device seemed to me important, and I 
determined at some future time to develop the idea, but was 
at that time, and for some time subsequently, hindered 
from trying the experiment, and it was not until April, 
1865, that I found opportunity to try the experiment. I 
then took a magneto-electric machine of the kind generally 
in use, and prolonged or supplemented the poles of the per- 
manent field-magnet by the use of two (2) soft iron projec- 
tions, each having a coil or spool of wire placed upon it. 

" Beyond these was placed the usual revolving armature 
with its coils. This construction or combination virtually 
amounted to the insertion of two (2) straight electro- 
magnets between the armature and the poles of its exciting 
field. I then turned the current from the armature through 
the coils of these supplemental field-cores, and found that 
the work done was greater when the supplementary field- 
coils were used than when they were omitted and the 
armature revolved simply in the presence of the permanent 
magnetic field. I soon after that built a machine without 
any permanent magnet in it. This second machine very 
much resembled *Griscom's' electro-magnetic motor, re- 
cently patented in the United States, but, owing perhaps to 
the small amount of wire upon the electro-magnetic field, it 
did not succeed in solving the problem of mutual accumu- 
lation, and it was not until the following year that I built a 
third machine with a much larger magnetic field, and then 
I had the satisfaction of seeing the problem of mutual re- 
action and accumulation fairly solved. 

**This third machine had a cast-iron armature of the 
well-known Siemens type of 1856. This armature was 



144 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

about four (4) or five (5) inches in length, and perhaps one 
and a half (1^) inches in diameter. It had two (2) independ- 
ent circuits of number fourteen (14) copper wire, one circuit 
had two (3) layers and the other three (3) layers of wire. 
The machine had two (2) commutators, one for each arma- 
ture circuit. The field of force was produced by an electro- 
magnet, the coils of which had an external diameter of six 
(6) inches and a length of about eight (8) inches. The total 
weight of field wire was sixty (60) or seventy (70) pounds. 
The weight of armature wire was less than two (2) pounds. 
The cores of ^he field-magnet were two (2) inches in diam- 
eter and eight (8) or nine (9) inches in length. The distance 
apart of their centres was about six and one-half (6^) inches. 
Cubical blocks of cast iron about three and one-half (3^) 
inches on a side were used as prolongations of the field- 
cores and to abut against the cast-iron cheeks within which 
the armature revolved. In my first experiments, I excited 
the electro-magnetic field of this machine by the current 
from a powerful thermo-electric battery. In my next ex- 
periment, I conducted the current from one of the armature 
circuits through the electro-magnetic field, and used the 
current from the other armature circuit to do external work, 
and found that it would do as much work as two (2) Bimsen 
cells of a gallon-jar size. I next included the two (2) arma- 
ture circuits, also the field circuit and the external circuit, 
all in series, and found the work which the machine would 
perform was very greatly increased. Some time in October, 
1866, I think it was, I wrote some account of my experi- 
ments to Mr. Henry Wilde, of Manchester, England, and he 
read a portion of my letter at one of the meetings, at which 
the communications of Professor Wheatstone and Mr. C. W. 
Siemens were under discussion, and this portion of my 
letter was published in one of the Manchester philosophical 
magazines, but as I have not my notes with me I am unable 



DYNAHO-SLECTBIC MACHINES. 145 

to fix the date^ but think it was published some time in Feb- 
ruary, 1867. 

" Yours respectfully, 

"MOSES G. FAEMER." 



" Proceedings of the Manchester (England) Literary and 
Philosophical Society/' vol. 6, page 107 : 

" Mr. Wilde has also received a letter on the subject of 
his recent experiments in magnetism from Moses G. Far- 
mer, of Salem, Mass., U. S., dated Nov. 9th, 1866, in which 
he says that he had obtained an increase of 31 per cent, in 
the power of a magneto-electric machine by transmitting 
the current from the armature through coils of wire sur- 
rounding pieces of soft iron forming the prolonged extrem- 
ities of the permanent magnets of the machine. Mr. 
Farmer in the same letter adds : ^ I have built a small 
machine, in which a current from the thermo-battery ex- 
cites the electro-magnet of your machine to start it, and 
after the machine is in action a branch from the current of 
the magnets passes through its own electro-magnet, and 
this supplies the magnetisms required. It is not exactly 
like a person standing in a basket and trying to lift himself, 
because the electricity proceeds from the conversion of the 
mechanical energy, which must be continually supplied. 
Neither can it in any wise be likened to the various schemes 
for producing perpetual motion, but depends on the princi- 
ple that the actual energy of the mechanical force, con- 
jointly with the potential energy of the magnet, can dfevelop 
a greater amount of potential energy than is originally 
resident in the magnet, or, in other words, it is a method 
of converting part of the actual energy of the prime mover 
into the potential energy of magnetism.' " — K.] 
7 



146 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



30. Siemens' iDynamo-Electric Mia- 
cliiiie. The arrangement and action of the parts of 
the simplest dynamo-electric machine, built on the plan 
of SiemenSy can be seen in Fig. 82. B B are the limbs 



Fio.ffi 




Sumems* Dynamo-Electric Machine, 



of the electro-magnet. The cores are plates of soft iron 
about 60 centimetres long, 50 centimetres wide, and 10 cen- 
timetres thick. They are bolted to the cast-iron head-block 
in obvious manner. They are woimd each with 27 metres 
of a thick, well insulated copper wire. The pole ends are 
at C C, and they are cut out in the shape of a "circle- 
segment" to partially envelop the armature n. [The figure 
does not show the circular cut. — K.] The armature is of 
the Siemens type previously described. 

[Having such a commutator as is shown in Fig. 63, it is 
strange that the drawing and Dr. Schellen's description 
show the springs 1 and 2 bearing, one upon an insulated 
sleeve and the other on the axis, which latter is connected 
with one end of the wire of the armature, and the former 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



147 



with the other end, which arrangement has previously 
been described herein as that for collecting alternate cur- 
rents.— K.] 



Fig. 88. 




WhtaManit Dynamo. 

As the clamps a h are in connection with the ends d c of 
the wire convolutions of the electro-magnet B B, it is clear 
that the induced currents of the armature n have a course 
through 1, a, d, B, B, c, 6 and 2, and strengthen its mag- 
netism. The arrangement for rotating the armature is not 
shown, as that can be effected by any proper mechanical 
means. 

Before the machine will work it is necessary to mag- 
netize the electro-magnet by passing an electric current 
through its coils. [It may be magnetized by magnetic con- 



148 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

tact. — E.] The remanent magnetism, or as it is also called 
the residual magnetism, is sufficient then to generate a 
current in the armature for the start. 

As soon as the armature is rotated weak induced cur- 
rents arise in its coils, which, flowing through the coils B B, 
increase the magnetism of their cores, and therefore the 
induced currents of the armature, and so on, progressively, 
until the maxima of magnetism and electric current are 
reached, which are limited by the mass of iron and the 
speed of the armature rotation. 

Because the principle of this machine is based upon the 
conversion of mechanical energy into electrical and mag- 
netic force, it has received the name of dynamo^lectriCy or 
dynamo-magnetic machine. [Figure 83 illustrates one of 
Wheatstone's dynamos made at about the same time.] 
The history of the discovery of the principle of ^^ mutual 
accumulation" would be incomplete without reference to 
the claims made in behalf of Hjorthy Varley and an un- 
known inventor. 

In 1854 Hjorth set forth in certain British patents a com- 
bination of permanent magnets with electro-magnets, to- 
gether constituting the field of force magnets of a machine. 
The armature coils and electro-magnet coils are placed in 
series, on one circuit, as in the modem dynamos ; he did 
not trust to residual magnetism on which to build, but de- 
pended upon the permanent magnets to induce a current in 
the armature, which current raised the strength of the 
electro-magnetic field. 

In 1858 an unknown inventor secured provisional pro- 
tection under British laws in the name of J. H. Johnson, a 
patent agent, for a dynamo-electric machine. His specifi- 
cation contains the following words : "It is also proposed 
to employ the electro-magnets in obtaining induced elec- 
tricity, which supplies wholly or partially the electricity 
necessary for polarizing the electro-magnets, which elec- 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 149 

tricity would otherwise be required to be obtained from 
batteries or other known sources." It would seem that this 
inventor did not have faith enough in his proposition to 
cause him to complete his patent by further payments in 
order to get the Great Seal and the protection which ac- 
companies it. 

December 24th, 1866, Mr. S. Alfred Varley filed in the 
British patent o£Sce a provisional specification for a dy- 
namo-electric machine, but under the law this was not 
published until July, 1867. 

Like many other important discoveries this seems to 
have been made by various scientific men. Farmery Sie- 
menSy Wheatstoney and Varlei/y almost simultaneously. 
Their discovery was due to the advances in the science and 
art which made clear this next step. The machine of 
Bjorth was not a dynamo in the strict sense, and the un- 
known inventor was probably an impractical dreamer at 
that day, unwittingly far ahead of his time. — K.] 

ST'. Siemens-Halske's Oynamo-Elec- 
tric Jkla.1*!!! a,iid. Mline Exploder. If, with 
the previously described machines, after rotating tl^e arma- 
ture until the electro-magnets become quite strong, the 
circuit be broken, at that break a strong spark will be pro- 
duced at the moment of breaking, which is well adapted to 
the firing of explosives in mining. In somewhat a like 
way, when the magnetism has become suflftciently strong, 
the current may be suddenly turned into a branch circuit, 
where it may ring alarm-bells or work other signalling 
apparatus. 

It was for such a purpose the first one-armature dynamo- 
electric machine was built by Siemens. This was the 
machine with which he publicly experimented in Decem- 
ber, 1866, and exhibited at the Paris World's Pair in 1867 as 
a scientific novelty. 



loO 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Pig. 84 shows the machine in perspective, and Pig. 85 is 
a diagram showing the circuit arrangement. 



F». 84. 




Siemens- Halske^s DynamO'Electric Mine Exploder, 



E is the electro-magnet ; B B are the poles, which have 
faces concentric with the armature A in a gpreat part of its 
length and circmnf erence, and are as close to the armature 
as possible and allow it to freely rotate without touching 
them. In Pig. 85, the armature is shown in its real posi- 
tion, but for purposes of illustration it is also shown 
removed and enlarged, as the course of the entire circuit 
can be, in that way, better followed. 

By the crank the two cog-wheels R r' are put in motion. 
Rapid rotation is thus given to the armature A through the 
pinion t. C is the conmiutator of common construction, 
having springs pressing on it diametrically opposite. The 
wheel r' at the same time turns the wheel r upon which the 
circuit closing and opening disk F is fastened. This disk 
has a slot cut in its periphery, into which the projection o 
of the lever D falls at each two rotations of the crank. 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



151 



When the projection o is not in the slot it slides on the disk 
Fy keeping a spring on the lever D in contact with the con- 
tact-screw S; as shown more clearly in Fig. 85. 



Fis. 8B. 




L.W. 



Circuit of Mint Explodir, 

The operation of the machine is as follows : In starting 
at first, a current from a galvanic battery is caused to pass 
through the wire convolutions of the electro-magnet for a 
moment. Enough magnetism will remain for all time to 
start the current when the armature is rotated. 

By turning the crank, the armature will be rotated, cur- 
rents generated in its coils pass through commutator C C 
over X yy and traverse the convolutions of the electro- 
magnet in the course x, C, 1, 5, d, e'\ 2, E, 3, C, and y. The 
building up of the current and magnetism progresses as 
before described. 

The short circuit is closed during the time that the pro- 
jection o bears upon the disk F in its rotation, as d is in 
contact with s. But when the cut allows o to enter it and 
d to fall, that circuit is opened, and the current takes the 
long circuit through L, L W, etc. 



152 DYNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 

These last letters may represent the mines to be fired^ 
the alarm-bells rung, etc. 

The short circuit having small resistance, allows the 
flow of enough current to fully charge the magnet, but 
when the long circuit only comes momentarily into use, the 
magnetism is nearly all discharged with considerable ten- 
sion and a like current of electricity through it. 

When o again raises d in contact with s, current flows 
almost entirely again through the short circuit, recharges 
the magnet, and continued rotation repeats the discharge. 

Besides the small machine driven by hand, Siemens and 
Halske exhibited at the Paris exposition a larger four- 
armature machine of similar construction. 

3S. Smith's decti-ie Blasting IMCa,- 
ehine. Figures 86 and 87 show longitudinal and cross 
sections of the " Electric Blasting Machine " made by the 
Bend-rock Powder Co., New York City, and is the invention 
of H. J. Smith. The armature and fleld electro-magnet are 
of the kind last described. 

The rack-bar is flrst drawn upward as far as possible, 
but without rotating the armature, by reason of the ratchet- 
like engagement of the pinion C with the armature. On 
pushing the rack-bar rapidly downward, the ratchet-teeth 
of the pinion engage with like teeth fixed to the head of the 
armature, and the armature is rapidly rotated. The cur- 
rent generated in the armature is passed through the coils 
of the field-magnet to the spring D, and through E back to 
the armature through the commutator F. The wires pass- 
ing to and from D and E are connected each to a binding- 
post, one of which is shown at the left of Fig. 86. From 
these posts the circuit to the fuses to be ignited is led. The 
spring contacts D and E serve to open or close the circuit of 
low resistance of which they are a part. The circuit to the 
fuses is a derived one of much higher resistance. When 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



163 



the rack-bar is pushed downward, the greater part, by far, 
of the current flows through D and E, until the magnetic 



Fin* 88. 



Pio. 87. 





LcngUudimal and Vertical SicH^ ^f 
Smithes Blasting Machitu. 



Vertical OaU'Section 0/ 
Smith's Blasting Machine* 



strength of the field is raised to its highest. At that instant 
the lower end of the bar strikes the spring D and moves it 
away from E, breaking that circuit. 

A very intense current of high electro-motive force then 
flows in the circuit to the fuses, where it heats to incandes- 
cence bits of platinum wire, which in their turn ignite the 
fulminate enveloping them. Though the armature stops 
with the cessation of motion of the bar, the accumulated 
energy is discharged as a current of electricity in the only 
circuit left, — ^that through the fuses. 



154 DTNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

In the figures, **A is the field electro-magnet; B the 
armature ; C the loose pinion, its teeth engaging the rack- 
bar, and by clutching also engaging with the spindle of the 
armature on the downward stroke (only) of the rack-bar ; 
D the spring, which, when struck by the foot of the rack- 
bar, breaks the contact between two small platinum bear- 
ings, and this causes the whole current of electricity to pass 
through the outside circuit, the leading wire and fuses ; E, 
the two platinum bearings, one on the upper face of the 
spring, and the other on the under side of the yoke over the 
spring ; and P the commutator." 

The machine as made for the market weighs about six- 
teen pounds and occupies considerably less than one-half 
cubic foot of space. 

3Q. Lad-d-'s T^wo-jkraiatn.i*e I>yiia- 
mo-Electric IMachine. March 14th, 1867, Wil- 
liam Ladd, proprietor of a renowned mechanical and opti- 
cal workshop in London, made a communication to the 
Royal Society, under the title " Oi a Magneto-Electric Ma- 
chine" as follows : 

"In June, 1864, I obtained of Wilde a small magneto- 
electric machine, which consisted of six magnets and a 
Siemens armature. I endeavored to improve upon it, and 
to make a machine to light the Abel fuse. I attained this 
by making circular grooves in the magnet poles, in which 
grooves the armature was rotated. By the aid of this 
arrangement it was possible to give the electro-magnet 
great strength. 

"My assistant afterwards told me that it would be im- 
proved by winding the armature with two wires, one of 
which, by its current, could be used to sustain the mag- 
netism of the electro-magnet, and the other current could 
be employed for exterior work. Two armatures could also 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 155 

be used^ one for sustaining the magnetism and the other 
for firing mines^ or for other purposes. 

"For want of time I could not pursue these ideas any 
further at the time. But, after the interesting treatises of 
Siemens and Wheatstone, I brought the idea forward and 
gave it the following execution : 

**Two plates of soft iron, each 7i inches long, 2^ inches 
wide and i inch thick, were wound separately around their 
middles with about 30 yards of No. 10 insulated copper 
wir6, and provided at each end with shoes of soft iron in 
such a manner that when placed one over the other, spaces 
were left in which two Siemens armatures could rotate. 
Each of these armatures was wound with about ten yards 
of No. 14 insulated copper wire. The ends of the wire of 
one of the armatures were in continuous connection with 
the wire coils of the electro-magnet, while the current of 
the other armature was entirely free and could be employed 
for any purpose. Though the machine was roughly made 
on a small scale, and only intended to illustrate the princi- 
ple, a platinum wire 3 inches long was made to glow." 

Ladd took his exhibition machine to Paris in May, 1867. 
To him belongs, without doubt, the honor of having first 
perfected a dynamo-electric machine with two armatures. 
As his communication shows, he does not claim to have 
discovered the principle involved. 

Fig. 88 shows Ladd's exhibition machine. The two flat 
cores, B D, of soft iron are 60 centimeters long, 50 broad, 1 
thick, and placed parallel about 8 centimeters apart. Each of 
these is woimd with 27 metres of thick, well insulated copper 
wire. The four ends, A A, of these iron plates project on 
the sides of the wire coils, and are attached to four blocks, 
C C C C, which are curved to form the poles of two distinct 
electro-magnets, and partially surround the armatures. 
The coils are so connected that a current passing through 
them would magnetize the poles with opposite polarity. 



156 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



Between these four pole-faces two Siemens armatures, 
m n, are set in rapid rotation by a steam engine. Currents 
are generated in the manner hereinbefore described. The 
current from armature n is conducted through the coils of 
the two electro-magnets B D as shown. The current from 
the other armature is conducted through the commutator 
m, springs F' and spiral wires to the electric light H. 

Fig. 88. 




Ladd't Machitu. 



With this machine, as with others of its class, it is 
necessary to give the cores of the magnet some magnetic 
polarity before it will generate current. 

The armature at the right sustains the magnetism, and 
that at the left is free to be used for industrial purposes. 

In the machine at the Paris exposition the second arma- 
ture was almost double the diameter of the other, and its 
circuit included a Duhoscq lamp or regulator. It was stated 
that one horse-power applied to this machine gave a light 
equal to one produced by 40 Bunsen cells of medium size. 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



157 



The same current heated a platinum wire more than 1 metre 
long and | millimeter in diameter white-hot. The maximum 
number of rotations of the armatures was 1800 per minute. 



Fio.80. 




Ladd"* Machine. 



In the dynamo-electric machines built later by Ladd 
and by Ruhmkorffy who had obtained the right from Ladd to 
build machines after his English pattern, a return was 
made to the one-armature system, not only for the small 
machines made for experimental purposes in physical cab- 
inets and chemical laboratories, but also for the large ma- 
chines built for the production of electric light, 

Ladd's machine (Fig. 89) then consisted of an electro- 
magnet set in vertical position as in Wilde's machine (Fig. 
72), having a core of wrought iron, with shoes at the poles, 
cut out in segmental form for the reception of the ar- 
mature. 



158 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

In this way the apparatus had but one magnet with two 
poles, which were elongated along the axial direction of its 
armature. The armature was made up of two Siemens' 
armatures placed end to end^ but fastened together so that 
two axial extensions answered for both. These two divi- 
sions had their magnetic axes at right angles^ and each 
had its own independent wire-coil. One was about one- 
half the length of the other, and its wire-coils were con- 
nected through the usual commutator on the axial exten- 
sion and the springs and connections, with the coils of the 
electro-magnet, which it served to charge with magnetism. 
The ends of the other coil were carried to insulated rings 
on the other axial extension, and by springs to the outer 
circuit for cases in which alternate currents were desirable. 

In cases where currents of one direction were wanted 
the usual commutator was used. The principles and opera- 
tion hereinbefore described apply to this machine. They 
have been made of small size, to be worked by hand-power, 
of a strength of 4 or 5 Bunsen cells, as well as of large 
dimensions for the application of steam-power in the pro- 
duction of electric light. 

Experiments with the large machines showed that from 
various causes they became so strongly heated as often to 
bum, or char, the insulating materials to the extent of 
making the machine useless until repaired. 

This extraordinary heat is due to the strong resistance 
which the machine offers to the rotation of its armature by 
reason of the attraction of the electro-magnet for the arma- 
ture-core. The power employed is only partially converted 
into magnetism and electricity, while the rest is converted 
into heat, which is not only lost, but exerts a deleterious 
effect upon the machine as described. These phenomena 
account for the waste of mechanical power applied to such 
dynamo-electric machines. 

Ladd has endeavored to counteract to some extent the 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 159 

evils attending the production of heat in the machines, by 
causing a current of cold»water to run through the interior 
of the armature, in passages constructed for the purpose. 

[The explanation given by Dr. Schellen of the conserva- 
tion of the mechanical power applied to the machines is not 
a satisfactory one. The mechanical power, heat, magnetism, 
and electricity are merely the names of different manifesta- 
tions of one agent, energy. In the assemblage of materials 
which make up the machine and circuit no one of these 
manifestations is exhibited without all the others. A defi- 
nite amount of heat is due to a definite current of electricity 
in a given resistance, and so also to a defined dynamic 
action and to magnetism, interchangeably and interde- 
pendently. There are currents of electricity generated in 
value due to the heat exhibited, but as the assemblage of 
materials in this machine are not such as to allow of the 
complete utilization of them, exterior to the machine, they 
having only local, interior circuits in which to act, some 
physicists have erroneously given the explanation which 
implies that only heat is produced. Heat results from the 
local and amperean currents generated in the iron masses. 
-K.] 

4rO. SiemenH-H^lske T^^vo-A.iTxiiatTi.re 
I>j^naiiio-Electx'ic l\f]aehiiie was constructed 
so that various combinations could be made of varying 
lengths of wire to each armature and electro-magnet. The 
completed machine weighed 1000 kilogranmies. The weight 
of insulated copper wire on the two armatures and the elec- 
tro-magnets was 208 kilogrammes. The wire was ^ milli- 
metres in diameter on each armature, and weighed 30 
kilogrammes. The wire on each limb of the magnet 
weighed 60 kilogrammes, and was 3 millimetres in diam- 
eter. Each armature had about 200 convolutions and a 
resistance of 1.57 ohms. 



160 DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

Each magnet limb had about 400 convolutiona and a 
resistance of 0.28 ohms. The resistance of the wire of the 
whole machine was about 3.80 ohms. 

Under the common arrangement^ by which one armature 
charged the field electro-magnets and the other gave the 
working current, a motor of four or five horse-power was 
required, and the dynamic and light effects were uncom- 
monly strong and appropriate to the size of the machine. 
The decomposition of water gave 10 cubic centimetres of 
oxy-hydrogen gas per second. The electric light was ex- 
tremely intense and even blinding in daylight. 

[41. !H!och.ha.ri.g9eii's I>yiia,mo-!E]leeti:*io 
lMCa.ch.iiie foi* Gra,l\^aiiopla.stic Puirposes. 

This machine, the invention of William Hctchhausen, is 
illustrated in Figs. 90 and 91. The electro field-magnet 
resembles that of WildSy Fig. 72, as does its armature. It 
is inverted so that its poles are at the top. This is done for 
convenience, as it raises the working parts to a position 
that allows access to them without inconvenience. The 
armature has a section resembling that shown in Figs. 67 
and 68. Instead of having a uniform cross-section like 
that of Fig. 68, the segmental parts are decreased in section 
at their edges, near the centre of the length of the arma- 
ture, so that in their passage from the poles during rotation 
the change of magnetism is more gradual, or, in other 
words, less abrupt. This construction somewhat lessens 
the spark which is seen at the commutator when an arma- 
ture of the former construction is used. The machine 
shown in Fig. 91 is mounted upon a stand of cast-iron, 
which carries a countershaft with tight and loose pulley, 
and at the end a cone pulley for belting to the armature, 
for the purpose of changing the speed. The pulley on the 
armature is attached to a heavy disk of iron which acts as 
a fly-wheel, to insure steadiness of motion. The space 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



161 



between the poles of the field-magnet is covered by sections 
of non-magnetic metal, so as to enclose the armature space 
as in a water-tight cylinder. A small stream of water is 
admitted through the nozzle shown on the top of the 
machine, and is allowed to flow out below, through an out- 
let not shown, for the purpose of conducting away heat 

Fio. 90. 




Hockkausen's Dynamo- Electric Machine ifarg«)/or Galvanoplastic Work, 

which is generated in the armature during its working 
when heavy currents are produced. One end of the arma- 
ture coil of wire, or other conductor, is fastened to the iron 
core of the armature ; while the other end is, by an exten- 
sion, carried through the axis of the armature at the 
commutator end and connected with one division of the 
commutator. The other division of the commutator is 
connected directly to the metal of the armature. The 



163 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



brushes for collecting the current are carried upon a yoke, 
and are insulated on it from each other. One of the brushes 
is electrically connected directly with one of the binding- 



Fio. 91. 




HochkautenU Dynamo- EUdric Mackint {small) for Galvaw^lattic H^ork, 



posts shown on the front end, while the other brush is 
connected to one end of the coils of the field-magnet. In 
the machine illustrated the magnet conductors are made of 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



163 



sheet copper, and the separate coils are insulated from one 
another by sheet paper, or other insulating material. The 
final end of the coils is connected with the other binding- 
post. The device shown upon the right of the figure will be 
described in the section treating of regulation of currents. 
The lever shown upon the left of the machine is for the 
purpose of shifting the driving-belt from the tight to loose 
pulley, or the reverse, in obvious manner. 

The front of this machine carries an arrangement for 
preventing the change of polarity in cases when in galvano- 
plastic work polarization of the solution takes place. This 
will be described in a subsequent section. The following 
table shows the sizes and efficiencies of the machines man- 
ufactured of this class. Large numbers of them are in use 
in the United States, some having been in constant use for 
over five years with great satisfaction. 





WEIGHT. 


Dcpoi«iTioN Elkctrottpino. 
OF SiLTKR A Good Shkll 
FEB Hour. Obtftined in 8 honrs. 




PRICE. 


No. 1.... 
" 8.... 


900 pounds. 
600 •» 
1800 '' 


2S ounces. 10 square feet. 
75 " 1 30 '• " 
325 '* ; 100 " 


1-8 Horee-power. 
1 
8 


$312 60 
426 00 
776 00 



The large machines do not have the attached counter- 
sj;iaft and pulleys. One is shown in Fig. 90. All of the 
machines have a resistance wire connecting the extreme 
ends of the field-magnet coils, for the purpose of adjusting 
the intensity of the magnetic field. In the manufacture of 
the machines, more convolutions of the copper plates on the 
fi«ld magnets are made than are necessary for the desired 
strength of magnetism, and then under a running test this 
resistance helix (shown on the front of the machine, Fig. 
91, just at the top of the stand) is attached. The resistance 
of the helix is made of such value that just enough current 
flows through it, instead of through the field-magnet coils. 



164 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

to obtain the proper reduction of magnetism. This is done 
as the easiest way of compensating for the varying qualities 
of iron used in the magnet cores. 

43. TVestoxi's I>yxiaiiio-Electric ]Ma- 
ehine for* Gralvanoplastic Pixrposes is 

represented by Figs. 92 and 93. Fig. 92 shows the machine 
in perspective, and Fig. 93 opened, to illustrate the con- 

Fio.92. 




Ji'tsfon^s Machine. 



nections and internal arrangements. To the iron drum six 
cast-iron electro-magnets, B, are* fastened by means of 
screws. Sometimes these magnets are made hollow, so 
that water may be conducted through them for the purpose 
of cooling. 

Upon one side of these magnet cores, and enclosed by 
the coils, are placed permanently magnetized steel plates, 
which serve to keep up the magnetization, so that they may 
not easily be demagnetized by return currents due to polar- 
ization of the electrolyte. The wires forming the coils of 
these magnet-cores are connected together at one end, so as 
to form three derived circuits that follow the several mag- 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



165 



net poles in such a way that the ends pointing to the 
common centre are polarized alternately, that is to say, that 
each pole has upon either side poles of unlike name. 



Fio. fie. 




A./? 




Diagram of WesttnCs Machine. 

After the same plan, the six smaller electro-magnets, AB, 
Fig. 93a, have wire coiled about them parallel with the axis of 
rotation, in such a manner that if a current be passed through 
the coils the six arms will be magnetized in alternately 
opposite manner. This is the armature, and the faces A of 




Weston's Armature, 



it form the poles ; and when the armature is rotated, they 
receive magnetism consecutively of opposite name six times 
in each rotation of the axis. Consequently, the wire coils 



166 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

of the electro-magnets^ AB, will have currents induced in 
them in diflferent directions, but since the wires branch be- 
tween them, the currents meet at this junction and take one 
direction. We may therefore consider each two connected 
electro-magnets as a single horseshoe magnet, and say that 
the three wires of such a compound magnet have currents 
passing through them in the same direction. This direc- 
tion changes six times with each rotation of the shaft, so 
that the currents produced are alternating ones, which are 
diverted into uniform direction by means of the commuta- 
tor shown at F in Fig. 92, and at C, Fig. 93a. 

The part C is insulated from the shaft and from the 
other parts, except one set of ends of the coils of the arma- 
ture. It resembles a broad-faced cog-wheel with three cogs 
only. The second part is so made that its arms nearly 
fill the spaces between the cogs of the first, and it is con- 
nected with the other ends of the coils of the armature. 
These two parts are well insulated from each other. 
Brushes, I, Fig. 92, bear upon the commutator at diametri- 
cally opposite points, so that during rotation each presses 
upon one or the other of the divisions. They are so placed 
in relation to the commutator that at the moment of change 
of direction of the current during rotation, one part of the 
commutator passes from under the brush which was bear- 
ing upon it, and the other part passes into contact. Thus 
it is the currents having alternating direction are turned 
into one direction. 

The dynamo-electric principle is carried out by connect- 
ing one brush with one end of the conductor passing 
around the cores of the electro-magnets, while the other 
end of the conductor is connected by means of a binding- 
screw with the external circuit, and this again with the 
second brush through the other binding-screw. In this way 
the current produced in the armature passes through the 
conductor, thereby magnetizing the electro-magnets B, 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 167 

then through the external circuit (say an electro-plating 
bath) to the second brush, and through it and the commuta- 
tor back to the coils of the armature. 

In constructing this machine, the magnet-poles are made 
to pass as closely to each other as possible without contact. 
The armature electro-magnets are made of the finest and 
softest iron, so that they may readily and rapidly change 
their polarity. 

This machine is built for galvanoplastic purposes, but 
without a safety-switch is not adapted to the work, by rea- 
son of the liability to change of polarity and direction of the 
current by a return current from electrolytes which become 
polarized during electrolysis, when Jhe machine decreases 
in speed below a certain point. To prevent this taking 
place, Weston devised some ingenious contrivances, one of 
which is shown at B, Fig. 92, which will be considered in 
Vol. II. One advantage of this machine is that the parts 
subject to wear in all machines of like size are made inter- 
changeable, so that such parts can be replaced at short 
notice. 

It is claimed for this machine, that while it has only 
half the size and weight of other apparatus intended for the 
same purpose, it produces fully as powerful eflfects, even 
with a low number of rotations per minute (450 to 800). 

43. The I^^y-namo-Electric IMacliiiie 
of H. Gr. j^Iohringr, of Franklovt-on-tlie- 
IMiain^ and Grustav Baixr*, of Stuttg-art. 

Special approbation is due to the manufacturers of this 
machine, which seems to be an excellent one in every 
respect. It is illustrated in Fig. 94, and is distinguished by 
an advantageously compact arrangement of its several 
parts. Six stationary electro-magnets H are fixed to the 
head C of the dnmx A by means of the screws K. The 
armature is fastened upon the shaft D so as to be rotated 



168 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



by it, and so that the cores of the electro-magnets G have 
the same axial line as the electro-magnets H. These elec- 
tro-magnets are fastened to the cast-iron disk F. Motion 
is applied to the armature by the pulley E through the 
shaft D. The bearings for the shaft are in the heads of the 
cylinder, and the commutator M N resembles the commuta- 
tor of the Weston machine. 

The coils of the electro-magnets G are woimd in three 
parallel circuits, or, as is sometimes expressed, in "multi- 
ple arc," so that they have alternate polarity. From one of 
the brushes which press upon the commutator six wires are 
led, one to each of the coils of the electro-magnets H H, and 
the ends of these coils are either bunched together so as to 




DynamO'Electric Machine of Mohring &• Baur. 

conduct the combined current to one plating vat, or they 
may lead each to a separate vat. But after passing through 
the vat, the several circuits are joined together as one, and 
are electrically connected with the other brush. In this 
manner six several circuits can be supplied without weak- 
ening the main current. [This same division of the current 
has been made by Weston in one of his electric light ma- 
chines. — K.] 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



169 



By means of the adjusting-screw p and its attachments, 
the shaft D can be moved to or fro in the direction of its 
length, so as to change the distance between the poles of the 
electro-magnets G and H, to enable the strength of the cur- 
rent to be changed by reason of the varied inductive effects 
due to the change of distance of the parts of the inducing 
apparatus. This machine can be provided with an arrange- 
ment for avoiding return currents and change of polarity. 

44. Bimsh's Ligrht IMacliine. This is a 
machine in which alternate currents are produced and 
turned in one direction by means of a commutator. Some 
physicists consider this apparatus as a modification of the 
Qramme machine. 

[This is a Oramme machine in the sense that it follows 
the directions given by Granmae for winding an annular 



Fio. «s. 




Annular Cort of Brush Machine vntkaui iit BobMnt. 



armature, so as to give rise to alternate currents. Ordina- 
rily the Chramme machine is only considered as having an 
8 



170 



DYNAMO-BLBOTRIC MACHINBS. 

Pio 96. 




Brush Dynamo Machine, 



DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



171 



armature made up of a core of uniform cross-sections and 
bobbins of wire which cover completely this core. The 
core of the Brush armature resembles that of the Pacinotti 



FI0.9T. 




Armature of the Br us A Machine. 



machine, but the winding and electrical connections are 
different. So in speaking of the Oramme machine, that one 



172 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fio 06. 



/^ 



^:J^|ip> 



r 



Section of the A rmatun 
of the Brush Machine, 



is meant which is generally recognized by that name, and 
is illustrated so fully in Part V.— K.] 

The armature of the Brush machine reminds one of the 
construction of the Gramme ring, but dif- 
fers from it in essential points, as well 
as in its association with an ingeniously 
contrived commutator. The fact that the 
current generated is alternate in direc- 
tion, and is turned in one direction by 
means of the commutator, justifies the 
consideration of it in this place. Its sim- 
ilarity to the Gramme machine consists 
in the shape of the annular armature, but 
it differs in the arrangement of the wire 
convolutions and in the connections of 
the various divisions among themselves. 
The annular core of the Gramme arma- 
ture is entirely covered by its bobbins, which are electri- 
cally connected with one another so as to form one closed 
circuit. In the Brush machine the bobbins are separated 
by comparatively large sections of the core, which at those 
points are thickened purposely. Consequently when the 
armature is rotated the bobbins are passed by the poles of 
the field-magnet alternately with the iron sectors which, 
by reason of their large cross-section, are brought as nearly 
as possible to the poles. 

Furthermore, neighboring bobbins are not connected, 
but diametrically opposite ones are, so that currents gen- 
erated in a pair of bobbins so connected do not necessarily 
fiow in the other pairs. The construction of the annular 
core is seen in Figs. 95 and 97. It is provided with deep 
channels which prevent the generation of induced currents 
in the iron, and which also provide for ventilation in cool- 
ing by the currents of air produced by the rotation. 

Besides these channels there is provided a number, usu- 



DYN A MO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



173 



ally eight, of rectangular depressions into which the in« 
sulated copper wire-bobbins are wound. These bobbins 
completely fill the depressions, and the wires are all wound 
in one direction. 



Fio.09. 



Fie. Ma. 





Tk4 8 BobHn$ on tke Cort, 

The inner end of the wire of each bobbin is connected 
with the like end of its diametrically opposite bobbin (see 
Figs. 97, 99 and 99a), and the outer ends of all the bobbins 
are led through the hollow shaft of the machine to the com- 
mutator. This is materially diflferent from that used with 
any other dynamo. It is made up, really, of as many sep- 

Fie.lOO. 







1 




3 


3 


I' 










CommutaUr Ring 0/ Brush Machine. 



arate commutators as there are pairs of bobbins. The ma- 
chines usually made have each four pairs of bobbins, and 



174 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



their joined commutator has four insulated copper rings^ 
I, II, III, IV, fastened upon the shaft in two pairs (I, II), 
(III, rV), which are in turn served by two brushes to each 
pair of rings. Each ring is cut into four parts, 1, 1', 2, 2' 
(Fig. 100). The parts 1, 1', each occupy |, and the parts 2, 2', 
each I of the entire circumference. Between them is a 
space of i centimetre width. 

[The members of each pair are interlocked, so that to 
the left of the central line the parts 1, 1', occupy | of the 
circumference; but dividing these parts are two projec- 
tions, 2, 2', from the right of the central line, which occupy 
each i of the circimaference. At the right of the central 



Fia. 101. 




Diagram o/Bruth Commutator. 



line the reverse is the case : — 2, 2', occupy | of the circum- 
ference, and 1, 1', I, in four alternate divisions. — K.] 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



175 



The outer ends of the wire of a pair of bobbins are con- 
nected to the two larger divisions pf each ring, and to each 
pair of rings belong two pairs of bobbins which are at right 
angles to each other on the annular core. By this arrange- 
ment all the pairs of bobbins are never in circuit at once ; 
that pair which at the moment is passing through the 
neutral zone of the machine being excluded. 

Fig. 101 shows in diagram how this is attained. The 
copper rings are supposed to be extended in a plane, but in 
correct relative position, and the separate parts are desig- 
nated by the letters and numbers before given. Two verti- 
cal lines, a b, a' b', are drawn so as to cut the copper rings at 
two diametrically opposite points, and exhibit spaces which 
pass simultaneously under the brushes A B C D. In the 
diagram the circuit can be easily followed for every desired 
position of the commutator. It will be seen that 3 pairs of 
bobbins are always in the circuit, and those in diametrical 
position (1, 2) adjoin. Fig. 102 is a diagram of the circuit 
at the moment when the lines ab a' V pass 
the brushes. The pair 4 is out of the circuit, 
1 and 2 are interposed between A and B, and 
3 between C and D. With every rotation of 
the armature each pair of bobbins passes in 
and out of the circuit twice. The two dia- 
grams show the field electro-magnets in a 
shunt circuit. This is a very favorable ar- 
rangement for incandescent lighting. 

[These diagrams also illustrate the so- 
called " Teaser" circuit. This is a circuit of 
fine wire of considerable length and high 
resistance, which Mr. Brush provides for the 
purpose of insuring sufficient initial mag- 
netism of the field magnets which it surroimds. It is 
wound on the magnet cores underneath the coarser wire, 
and is in constant closed circuit, whether the external cir- 



Flo.Ktt. 
Field Magnet. 




Diagram oy Circuit, 



176 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



cuit be closed or not. The current which flows through it 
does not flow in the external circuit. It does not have the 
resistance nor length of the recent shunt- wound dynamos, 
which will be considered elsewhere. — K.]. 



Fio. loa 



.-— — ^^ ^. 




Diagram o/CompUit Brtuh Mackim. 



Fig. 103 is an illustration of the entire circuit of a ma- 
chine in which the field magnets are in the main circuit. 
At the moment the pairs 2 and 4 of bobbins are interposed 



DTNAHO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. IHH 

in parallel arc, the i>air 1 is passing the neutral zone and is 
out of circuit [and 3 is in series with the joined 2 and 4. 
— K.]. In order to make the relative contacts of the 
brushes with the commutator very plain, the field-magnets 
N and S are only indicated, and the commutator is out of 
its true position, 30 degrees from right to left. By the con- 
struction of the commutator these ends are attained :— The 
pair of bobbins passing the point of greatest induction 
passes its current directly into the circuit, while the two 
pairs which are about to enter or leave the next favorable 
position are interposed in parallel arc, by reason of their 
parts of the commutator being in contact with the eame 
pair of brushes. 

The magnetic field is produced by two flat electro-mag- 
nets, which have their like poles turned towards each other 
(as in Figs. 105 and 106), the north poles at one side and the 
south poles at the other. The ends of the poles are each pro- 
vided with iron extension-plates, which enlarge the pole- 
faces so that they at all times cover six bobbins, and one pair 
of bobbins is uncovered at the most favorable position for 
change of its magnetism and direction of induced current. 

From this description it is clear that the four pairs of 
bobbins of the Brush Machine «really constitute four ma- 
chines, each yielding alternate currents, at one time 
positive by entering a north magnetic field from a south 
magnetic field, and next negative by leaving and entering 
the magnetic fields in reverse order. These alternating cur- ' 
rents are, by means of the commutator, transformed to 
intermittent currents having one direction. These four 
machines are united as two pairs by the brushes which 
press simultaneously on two commutator rings. These 
paired machines are finally connected in series by properly 
connecting the brushes. [Furthermore, the members of 
each pair of the series are put out of circuit, one at a time, 
in the following order, 1, 3, 2, 4.— K.] Brush also makes 



178 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIO MACHINES. 



Fio. 104. 




large machines with six pairs of bobbins and three pairs of 
brushes. The arrangement is analogous to the one just 
described. The pairs at right angles to each other are 
served by the same pair of brushes, and the three pairs of 
brushes are connected in series. The pair of bobbins mov- 
ing horizontally is out of circuit. 

Sometimes, in case of the former machines, the commu- 
tator is divided into three parts. The two longer each 

occupy i of the circiunference, the 
shorter part i, and the remaining i 
is insulation. (See Fig. 104.) 

[The further description of the 
circuit of this machine given by Dr. 
Schellen is the same as that given 
in Engineering, which we herein- 
after copy. — ^K.] 

It has been and is still wrongly 

stated in many places that the 

Brush machine has two separate 

circuits : one to excite the field electro-magnets, and the 

other to supply the external circuit. The Brush Company 

has not corrected this error. 

The Brush machines ar^ simply built and are cheap to 
maintain. All psurts are easily accessible, so that repairs 
are easily made. Consequently, they have wide distribu- 
tion in America, and of late in England. They have 
received much attention because they are capable of pro- 
ducing currents of such high tension that 20 to 40 lamps can 
be placed in one circuit [Sixty-five-light machines have 
been put into practical use ; though the intensity of current 
has been made less, so that the candle-power of each light 
is 1200 nominal in place of 2000 nominal before. — K.] 

The machines for 40 lamps give currents of 2000 volts. 
But this is regarded as a disadvantage on account of the 
danger to life in manipulating electricity of so high tension. 



Tke Three-Fart Commutator, 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 179 

The following table is a record of measurements made of 
a Brush 16-light machine : 

BeeaBtaace of machine between binding- posts. 10.65 ohms. 

" '* external circait 72.96 ** 

"leiighta *' 70.86 *' 

Tension at binding-posts 8d9.02 volts. 

Strength of current 10.04 amp^ies. 

Power for driving machine 16.48 h. p. 

" absorbed in producing current 18.78 ** 

Energy of current produced 11.26 " 

" in external circuit 87.36% 

" *• " 16 arc lights. 84.00% 

Proportion of energy of current to energy of power applied. . . . 72.00% 
" " ** *' power applied to produce 

electrical energy simply 81.89% 

In the 16 lights there appeared of the total power applied 61.24% 

" electrical power ap. 

plied to the machine 68.79% 

The above measurements show the great value of the 
Brush machine ; but they were made three years ago, and 
fiince that time great improvements have been made. It is 

Fis. 106. 




Brush Machine and Ctnnmutatort, 



to be deplored that more such measurements have not been 
made, as it is by these alone the value of a machine can be 
determined. The solid construction and great efficiency of 
these machines are generally praised ; but the penetrating 



180 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fu. 108. 




Brush Mackitu, 



noise which they make, by reason of the rapid rotation of 
the armature containing the deep channels, is often com- 

plained of, and makes the ma- 
chine almost unendurable in 
inhabited places. 

Much of this noise is due to 
the intermittent and rapidly 
successive magnetizations and 
partial demagnetizations of 
the massive sectors of the iron 
core. The changes in mag- 
netic condition are not con- 
tinuously progressive, as is the 
case in a core having uniform 
cross-section like that of the Gramme and Siemens ma- 
chines, consequently the changes produce noisy vibrations 
of the iron-molecules. 

[A description of the Brush machine, first published in 
Engineering^ is here given, because it receives the endorse- 
ment of the Brush Electric Co., and is somewhat different 
from Dr. Schellen's description : 

"The Brush machine, a general view of which is given 
in Fig. 96, possesses some points of resemblance to the 
dynamo-electric machine of Gramme. 

" Its point of resemblance to M. Gramme's machine con- 
sists in the fact that its armature is of annular shape. The 
Brush armature differs, however, from the Gramme ring in 
the arrangement arid disposition of the helices of wire with 

which it is wound, as well as in the way in which the sev- 

« 

eral coils are connected with one another. In the Gramme 
armature the coils are wound contiguously to one another, 
so as entirely to envelop the iron core, hiding it completely 
from view, and they are permanently connected to one 
another in consecutive series. In the Brush armature, the 
diametrically opposite bobbins are alone permanently con- 



DTNAHO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 181 

nected together, and a current generated in one pair of 
bobbins does not necessarily traverse all the others, and in 
fact never does, as will be pointed out in the course of this 
notice. Again, the individual coils are separated from one 
another by a considerable sector of the iron ring, which is 
of larger sectional area between the coils (see Fig. 97), so 
that in the revolution of the armature within the magnetic 
field the coils alternate with masses of iron which from 
their enlarged section are brought into as close proximity 
to the poles of the field magnets as are the outsides of the 
coils themselves. It is this difference from the Gramme 
ring which constitutes the similarity between the Brush 
armature and that of M. de Meritens, but the Brush machine 
differs in all other essential respects from the latter machine 
in the disposition of its coils, in its method of connection, 
in the method and arrangement of the magnetic field, and 
in the continuous nature of its current. 

" The Brush machine, however, differs from the Gramme 
generator in the disposition of its field magnets and the 
relative positions of the revolving helices and the magnetic 
field. 

''The most characteristic feature of the Brush machine 
lies in the form and construction of its armature, which 
consists of a cast-iron ring, the cross-section of which is 
generally rectangular, but in the direction of its circumfer- 
ence it is alternately wide and narrow, as shown in the 
sketch, Fig. 95, which represents a portion of the iron arma- 
ture-ring, and explains its construction better than can be 
given by description. On reference to this figure it will be 
seen that the ring is divided up into as many sectors as 
there are bobbins to be wound, by a number of rectangular 
depressions or grooves ; in these the coils of insulated cop- 
per wire are wound until the groove is filled up and the fiat 
converging recesses become fiush with the face of the inter- 
mediate thicker portions or pole-pieces by which they are 



182 DTNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 

separated from one another. Fig. 98 is a cross-section of 
one side of the ring taken through one of these portions, 
and it will be observed, on reference to both figures, that 
the intermediate thicker portions of the ring are grooved 
out by a series of deep concentric grooves, the object of 
which is partly to reduce the mass and lessen the weight of 
the revolving armature, partly for the purpose of ventilating 
the ring and thus carrying away a portion of the heat gen- 
erated by the working of the machine, but chiefly for the 
localization and isolation of local currents generated by in- 
duction in the iron, and which would tend not only to reduce 
the efficiency of the machine by diminishing the magnetic 
capacity of the armature, but also to produce a heating of 
the ring and therefore of the coils, whereby a portion of the 
current would be lost through their resistance being in- 
creased. For a similar reason the periphery of the ring is 
grooved out deeply, so as almost to sever the ring ; by this 
means all cross-currents are effectually cut off, and induc- 
tion currents are compelled to flow in directions which are 
not detrimental to the efficiency of the machine. This 
again increases the area of radiating or cooling surface, and 
consequently helps to prevent the armature becoming over- 
heated. 

" In what is called the sixteen-light machine, which may 
be regarded as the normal size of the Brush generator, the 
armature ring is 20 inches in diameter, and it is wound 
with eight radial coils of cotton-covered copper wire of No. 
14 B. W. G., whose middle planes radiate from the axis of 
rotation, being distributed round the ring at equal angular 
distances apart of 45 deg. Each coil contains about 900 ft. 
of wire, weighing about twenty pounds, and is wound in 
the rectangular grooves or spaces shown in Fig. 95, filling 
up the space completely, so that the vertical faces of all the 
coils are flush with the vertical faces of the thicker portions 
of the iron ring. Fig. 106 is a sketch of th^ armature ring 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 183 

with all its coils wound, which must be looked upon rather 
as an explanatory diagram than as an illustration of the 
proportions of this part of the apparatus. The two sides of 
each groove, and therefore of each coil of wire, are parallel 
to the center-line or radial plane of the coil, and by the 
adoption of that form of bobbin one of the practical difficul- 
ties in the winding of annular armatures of the ordinary 
form is avoided. All the coils are, like those in the Gramme 
machine, wound in the same direction. 

" Fig. 99 is a diagram illustrative, not only of the distri- 
bution of the coils aroimd the ring, but of the method by 
which the connections are made ; the inner end of each of 
the coils is connected by a wire to the inner end of the cor- 
responding coil, at the opposite end of the same diameter 
of the ring, and the outer ends of all the coils are brought 
through the shaft of the machine, and are connected to cor- 
responding portions of the commutator, where the currents 
are collected by suitably placed copper plates or brushes. 
Bef erring to the diagram, it will be seen that the inner end 
A* of the coil 1 is connected to A', which is the inner end of 
the coil 5 ; A^ is connected to A*, A'* to A', and so on round 
the ring, and the outer ends, B^ B', B', etc., are all connect- 
ed to the commutator by conducting wires insulated from 
one another. The two free ends of each pair of diametri- 
cally opposed coils are, after passing through the shaft of 
the machine, attached respectively to two diametrically 
opposite segments of the same commutator, which segments 
are insulated from one another and from any other pairs of 
coils. The commutator, which is attached to and rotates 
with the driving-shaft of the machine, consists of a set of 
separate copper rings or flat cylinders, of which there are 
as many on the shaft as there are pairs of coils on the arma- 
ture, and each of these cylinders consists of two segments 
insulated from one another on one side of the shaft by a 
small air-space about one-eighth of an inch wide, and on 



184 D7NAM0-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the other by a piece of copper separated from the segments 
by two smaller air-spaces. The arrangement is shown in 
Fig. 104^ in which A and B are the two segments connected 
respectively to corresponding coils on opposite sides of the 
armature, and attached by an insulating material to the 
shaft S ; C is the copper insulating piece, the object of 
which is to separate either of the flat copper brushes or 
coUectoi-s, which press upon the periphery of the commuta- 
tor, from either of the segments during the interval occu- 
pied by one pair of coils passing the vertical, or in other 
words through the neutral portion of the magnetic field ; 
this occurs twice in each revolution of the armature, and 
therefore of the commutator. At the time when any pair 
of bobbins is in this way cut out of the general circuit, their 
own circuit is open, so that no current can circulate or be 
induced in them. By this most ingenious arrangement, 
each pair of coils has in succession in each revolution a 
period of rest equal to one-quarter of a revolution, and has 
a current passing through it for only 75 per cent, of the time 
the machine is running ; to it is, in a great measure, due 
the very small development of heat in the working of the 
Brush machine, and it presents also another important 
element of efficiency to the machine, namely, that each 
pair of bobbins as it passes the neutral portion of the 
magnetic field, and is therefore incapable of doing work 
and contributing electromotive force to the general cur- 
rent, is itself cut out of the circuit, and thus two causes 
operating against the efficiency of the machine are elimi- 
nated ; the first is one common to most armatures which 
have, like that in the Gramme machine, a permanently- 
closed circuit, namely, that the currents generated in the 
bobbins have two routes open to them, the one through the 
conductors and commutators to the brushes, and the other 
through the idle bobbins, and thus by a species of short cir- 
cuiting robbing the external circuit of some of its current. 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 185 

The other cause of inefSciency which is avoided in the 
Brush machine is the reduction of its internal resistance by 
an amount equal to the resistance of two of the bobbins, for 
just as a certain amount of resistance is an item of efficiency 
when belonging to coils which are doing work and contrib- 
uting electromotive force to the general current, so does it 
become an element of inefficiency when belonging to coils 
which are idle, for in that case it diminishes the current 
supplied by the active coils while at the same time contrib- 
uting no current of its own in compensation, By the 
arrangement of commutator referred to above, Mr. Brush 
has, therefore, got rid of two considerable drawbacks to the 
efficiency of the machine. 

" What is, however, one of the important features of the 
Brush machine is the arrangement of the magnets by which 
the magnetic field is produced, and by which the armatxire 
coils are during their revolution almost continually passing 
through a very intense magnetic field. Upon reference to 
Fig. 96, it will be seen that the armature ring is closely em- 
braced on each side by the large horizontal electro-magnets 
whose poles are expanded so as to be presented to three of 
the armature coils on each side, leaving one pair of coils 
free from their direct infiuence, and this is the pair which 
is passing through the neutral region of the magnetic field. 
For the sake of illustration, the disposition of the magnets 
towards the armature and towards one another may be 
described as two horseshoe electro-magnets placed opposite 
one another in a horizontal position, their similar poles 
being presented towards one another, and having a small 
space between them in which rotates the armature ring. 
This space in the machines we are describing is, however, 
so nearly equal to the thickness of the armature that there 
is hardly any clearance between them, the high-class work- 
manship of the apparatus allowing such close working with 
perfect safety. 



186 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

''Fig. 105 is a diagram illustrating the connection be* 
tween the armature bobbins and the magnet coils at the 
time when the commutators are placing them in the same 
circuit. Referring to this diagram, M M and M M are the 
two magnets having their similar poles presented towards 
one another on opposite sides of the armature coils A A^ 
Thus the coil A is under the influence of a magnetic field 
produced by the two north poles N N*, while at the same 
time its corresponding bobbin A^ is under the influence of 
the two south poles S S^ A current is therefore induced in 
the pair of bobbins A A* which is transmitted by wires pass- 
ing through the shaft S to the commutator C^ C?, whence it 
is collected by the brushes B^ and B^ and by them transmit- 
ted to the magnet coils, which are all connected together in 
series, and at the same time the other portions of the com- 
mutators (which are in connection with the other working 
armature bobbins) are in contact with the brushes B« and 
B* by which they are placed into the external circuit of the 
machine. 

'' One of the most original and interesting features of the 
Brush machine is the commutating apparatus, which, by 
the simplest of mechanical means, collects and distributes 
the currents from the active armature coils, and cutting out 
of circuit the armature coils one by one as they pass through 
the neutral regions between the poles. The whole commu- 
tating apparatus is fairly represented on the extreme right 
of the general view of the machine, and consists of two 
pairs of rings of the form shown in Fig. 104, attached to and 
revolving with the main shaft, and therefore their position 
is flxed with respect to the revolving armature of the ma- 
chine. On to the cylindrical circumferences of these rings 
are pressed two pairs of copper-collecting brushes, which 
rub tangentially against the commutator rings, one pair 
pressing above and the other pair pressing below, a line 
forming the points of contact being a diameter of the ring. 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 187 

The copper " brushes," as they are called, are flat strips of 
elastic copper about 2 in. wide, cut at the ends which press 
against the rings into eight tongues, so as somewhat to 
resemble a grainer's comb, and each comb or brush is wide 
enough to cover or be in contact with two armature rings, 
and in this way, although two of the coils are insidated 
twice in each revolution, the main circuit is never inter- 
rupted. The disposition of the brushes with respect to the 
commutators will clearly be understood by comparing 
Fig. 96. 

'^ For the sake of adjusting the brushes so as to make 
contact with the commutators at the most effective angular 
position with respect to the magnetic field, they are moimt- 
ed to the opposite ends of two rocking levers, which are 
capable of oscillating on the driving-shaft and can be fixed 
in any desired position by means of a set-screw, which 
clamps a stout wire rising from the base of the machine. 
The currents are conveyed from the brushes by wide strips 
of thin sheet copper, shown in the general view, and in 
order to allow for the variable distance of the free ends of 
the brushes from the base of the machine they are made 
undulating or wavy, doubling up as the distance is short- 
ened and stretching out when it is increased. 

'^The average total resistance of the sizteen-light ma- 
chines as now constructed is about eleven ohms, to which 
the eight coils of the armature contribute about five ohms, 
that is, .625 ohm each, and the magnet coils about six ohms, 
or 1.6 ohms for each helix— the resistance of the connec- 
tions, conductors, contacts, etc., within the machine being 
inconsiderable." 

[Mr. Brush has recently made a new armature-core, 
which is illustrated by Fig. 106a, on page 188. In order to 
avoid to a greater degree than before the production of 
Foucault currents in the core, he now constructs it of insu- 
lated layers of sheet iron. The iron ring A has four lugs 



188 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIG MACHINES. 



upon ity as shown at a. These lugs have each two holes to 
receive bolts by which to fasten it to a spider which is 
keyed to the shaft. The ends of the arms of the spider rest 
against the inner periphery of the ring, and the bolts pass 
through their sides. The core consists of sheet iron, the 

Fio. 108a. 




BrutlCt New Armature. 



successive layers of which are separated by an insulating 
material like press-board, or vulcanized fibre. There are 
twelve bobbins in six pairs. This armature gives much 
better results from the power expended than the previous 
one does, and all the machines now made by the Brush 
Electric Co. have it. — K.] 



PTNAMO-ELEGTRIC MACHINES. 189 

4rS. rriie rriioiiisoii f3pliei*ica.l-A.i*iiia^ 
tixre I>yiiamo-Electi?lc IMCaehiiiie is the one 

used in the Thomson-Houston System of arc lighting which 
is extensively used in the United States and Canada. The 
current furnished by this dynamo is of standard strength 
under varying conditions of resistance below the maximum 
or speed above the minimum. This residt is attained by 
the use of an automatic regulator always attached to and 
forming a part of every machine, which adjusts the brushes 
to positions of varying electromotive force to suit the dif- 
ferent conditions of work. The work may range from a 
short circuit to the full number of lights the machine can 
carry, and the speed may vary above the normal without 
materially affecting the current delivered to the line. 

The general method of winding the armature and means 
of regulation are the joint inventions of Profs. Elihu Thom- 
son and E. J. Houston; but the peculiar adaptation and 
arrangement of parts, the spherical armature, and me- 
chanical devices which have given the machine much of 
its reputation and success, are due to the labor and inven- 
tions of Prof. Thomson. 

The machine is made in sizes ranging from one to forty- 
five arc lights in series, giving an electromotive force of 
forty to two thousand volts at the binding-posts. It is also 
made to give any current from a fraction of an ampdre to 
hundreds of amperes, according to the requirements of 
trade. 

One will find in this machine much chance for observa- 
tion and study, as the principles of electricity and mechan- 
ics are here applied in novel and psurticularly original 
ways. Prof. Thomson seems always to have had in view 
the production of a simple and efficient, a cheap and prac- 
tical self -regulating dynamo, suitable for the production of 
electric currents of any kind ; but particularly adapted to 
high electromotive force currents for arc lighting. How 



190 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



well he has succeeded will be seen by the following de- 
scription. 

The general appearance of the complete machine is 



Pio. 107. 




Tkomton-Houston Dynamo Electric Machine* 



shown in Fig. 107. The field-magnets consist of two large 
hollow castings, M M, of the form shown in Fig. .108, in 



Fio. 108. 




Thomton^Houeton Machine Field-Magnet Cores, 



section, having flanges F F extending around one end, and 
the other being shaped to a hemispherical outline. The 



DTNAHO-ELBGTRIC MACHINES. 191 

magnet coils C C are wound upon the exterior of the drum, 
and a brass flange exists at b by to keep them in place. The 
space A A, between the opposed faces of the castings, is 
nearly filled by the spherical armature, the shaft of which 
occupies the central position. The large flanged portions 
of the castings at F F are united magnetically by a series 
of bars of soft iron, usually eighteen in number, and are 
firmly held in place by bolting to the side frame, B B, Fig. 
107, which also affords feet for the machine and sustains 
the shaft in its bearings. 

The relation of parts is seen in Fig. 107, where C C are 
the field-magnet coils, B B the frame on the commutator 
side, sustaining the shaft in a central bearing, while upon 
the other side of the machine is a similar, but longer bear- 
ing, and a shaft extension with the driving pulley. 

The armature, spherical in form, is nearly enclosed, and 
is seen partly at A. The commutator, and air-blast mech- 
anism therefor, occupy positions upon that portion of the 
shaft outside the bearing. The wires, three in number, 
from the armature helices, are brought out through the 
hollow shaft and connected to the commutator at the end 
of the shaft. It will thus be seen that the field-magnet 
coils which are put into the direct circuit of the machine, 
surround not only the iron of the magnets within them, but 
also the armature core and its bobbins. The armature core 
is thus polarized directly by the field-coils, and in the same 
sense as is the field-magnet itself. The wire of the field- 
coils being traversed by currents in the same direction 
in both coils, form virtually a single coil, in the middle of 
which the armature revolves. The soft-iron bars complete 
the magnetic circuit. 

The arrangement of the field-magnets is calculated to 
produce a most intense field wherein the armature turns, 
and prevents to a large extent outward diffusion of mag- 
netism. 



192 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 



The axmature core consists of an iron shell having the 
form of an oblate spheroid mounted centrally upon the 
shafts as seen in Fig. 109 ; the shaft, H H, passing through 



Fi». 109. 




Tko9HS0H'HoM*t0H ArMotun Core, 



the axis of the spheroid. The polar portions are formed of 
two thin iron castings, placed as shown at Q G, and keyed 
firmly to the shaft. Between these flanges and supported 
by them, but insulated therefrom, are a series of cast-iron 
bridges D, generally twelve in number, and placed at equal 
distances apart. The bridges are formed with feet that 
enter corresponding grooves in the internal faces of the 
flanges. Outside the bridges is wound a quantity of well- 
annealed soft-iron wire I, scaled by heat and shellacked. 
The depth of the wire varies with the capacity of the ma- 
chine, and when all on, completes the form of the spheroidal 
armature. The core is covered with several layers of insu- 
lating paper, and then is wound with insulated wire of cop- 
per. To facilitate this winding twelve hard-wood pins P P, 
six in each flange, are carried by being inserted into open- 
ings in the flanges near their periphery. They are so set 
as to give spaces, six in number, around the circumference 
of the core to receive the wire. There are six other pins, 
P', similarly set around the extreme periphery of the wire 
core. 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



193 



The core so formed is wound with three helices crossing 
one another at the polar portions, and being divided cen- 
trally by the shaft in its passage through the core. To 
secure mechanical and electrical equality of the three coils, 
or helices, the following procedure is adopted : 

The fif st half of the first coil is wound. 

The first half of the second coil is next wound. 

The whole of the third coil is then wound. 

The second half of the second coil is then wound. 

Finally the second half of the first coil finishes the wind- 
ing, and produces an approximately spherical outline. See 
Fig. 110. 

Fie. 110. 




Tkom$on'Hou*Um Armaturt, 



The coils are thoroughly insulated and are interwoven 
with tapes wherever necessary to keep them in place. 
Finally a strong brass-wire binding is applied, consisting 
of two central bands, 6 6, and two lateral bands, d d, wound 
around the armature circumf erentially. 

The three ends from the inner layers of the coils are 
joined together permanently at a, while the three outer 
ends, /, are carried through the shaft to the commutator. 
By this winding the highest differences of electric potential 
are found only upon the outside wires, the result being 
greatly in favor of retention of insulation under all condi- 
tions. The position of the coils upon the armature is such 
9 



194 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



that they follow each other in similar electrical sequence at 
120° of a revolution apart ; an arrangement which gives, 
with the small number of generating helices, an approxi- 
mate continuity of eflfect. The three free ends are carried 
out through the shaft and kept well insulated while pass- 
ing to their connections at the commutator near the end of 
the shaft. 

The commutator consists of a copper ring, slit into three 
segments of 120° each, nearly. These segments are inde- 
pendently mounted upon a metal frame which gives the 
segment its position. The three metal frames, G G G, 
Figs. Ill and 112, for the support of the segments, are 

Fio. 111. 



1 


K 




Th^nuon-Houston Commutator, 



moimted in two metal flanges J J, but thoroughly insulated 
from them. The flanges J J are themselves borne upon the 
shaft and covered with a layer of vulcanite. The seg- 
ments are readily detachable by removal of screws passing 
through lateral ears extending from each side of a seg- 
ment, K. 

The wires from the shaft connect to each framework 
G G G respectively, and consequently there is one wire 
electrically connected to each segment. 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



195 



The mounting of the segments provides a free air space 
all around them, greatly conducive to preservation of insu- 
lation, and nowhere does any 
metal lie so near to the seg- ^^' "*" 

ments as to permit leaks over 
its surface. 

Fig. 114 shows diagram- 
matically the winding of the 
armature, and also the man- 
ner of applying the brushes 
to conduct the current to the 
circuit. There are usually 
two pairs of brushes, formed 
of comb-like copper springs, 
the brushes of each pair be- 
ing diametrically opposite, 

and the two brushes that are positive or negative set so as 
to bear upon the commutator at points about 60'' apart, as 
shown. 

The figure also shows at C C the relation of the field- 
coils to the rest of the circuit, L L L. 




TkomsoH'Hotuton Commutator, 



Fig. 118 




Thomson' Houston Brush' Holder Yokes. 



The commutator brushes are, however, made movable, 
those diametrically opposite being mounted upon yokes in 



196 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



insulated holders, so as to be capable of movement around 
the commutator shaft. The purpose of this arrangement is 
to permit the automatic setting of the bushes to maintain a 



I 




I 



standard current 'irrespective of changes of speed and of 
resistance in the circuit. 

The brush-holder yokes are connected to a lever and 
connecting rods, L, Fig. 113, so that the brushes R R re- 



DYKAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 197 

ceive a movement backwards 3^ times as great as that im- 
parted to S S forwards during regulation. This movement 
is effected by an attachment, to the connecting arm A, from 
the motor-magnet lever N, Fig. 115. 

Fio. 115. 




Tkomson-Heusion Motor'Ufagnti and Levtr, 

The motor-regulator magnet is constructed of a stout XT- 
shaped iron frame, to the centre of which is bolted a bar of 
iron, surrounded by a magnetizing coil, K, of low resist- 
ance. The polar extremity of this bar, P, is a projection 
having an approximately paraboloidal form, and its arma- 
ture A is provided with a circular opening, the edges of 
which are rounded so as to move over the pole without con- 
tact. The armature is swung upon pivots at U, between 
the legs of the U frame. The construction is such that the 
ends of the armature move at equal distances relatively 
from the frame at each end, leaving the pivots U without 
strain. A dash-pot D is provided to prevent too sudden 
movements. 

The attraction exerted by such a magnet when a con- 
stant current flows through its coils, is practically constant 



198 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fio^llA. 




The Current'Con*rolUr Magtut^ 



in all positions of the armature within its prescribed range. 
It is seldom, however, sufficiently sensitive to current fluc- 
tuations to serve alone as a means 
of regulation. It is therefore put 
imder the control of a shunting con« 
tact, operated by what is termed a 
current-controller magnet, placed in 
a case and hung vertically near the 
machine. The controller-magnet, 
Fig. 116, is constructed of two he- 
lices, C C, placed side by side and 
serving as solenoids attracting into 
their interior a double core B, the 
parts of which are yoked together 
and suspended by an adjustable 
spring S from the support above. 
The yoke carries a silver contact- 
point on its under side, and a stationary contact point O is 
mounted immediately thereunder. When these contact 
points are touching each other they complete a shunt cir- 
cuit of practically no resistance around the coil K of the 
regulator-motor magnet (Fig. 115). 

To avoid sparks at the contacts, a permanent shunt of 
carbon coils, enclosed in glass tubes, is connected around 
the contacts. The connections are exhibited in Fig. 117, 
wherein K is the commutator, C C the magnet coils, A the 
motor-regulator, R the controller, B the contact points, E 
the carbon resistance. 

Every slight fluctuation of the line current is felt by the 
controller-magnet, and the result is that when set for nor- 
mal current a tremor of the contact surfaces is constantly 
taking place, so that the magnet A (Fig. 117) is maintained 
at such a state of excitation as will cause it to move and 
maintain the brushes at those positions corresponding to a 
predetermined current under variations of speed and of 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



199 



resistance, even down to a short circuit. The regulation is 
effected so promptly that a machine may have all its lights 



Fio. 117. 




Tkomson- Houston Complete Circuit, 

shunted at once without damage. Unsteady power does 
not practically injure the steadiness and uniformity of the 
lights or current. 

One of the novel features of the machine is the air-blast 
attachment to the commutator. It was invented for the 
purpose of permitting the use of electromotive forces up to 
2000 volts and over, while a free oiling of the commutator 
surfaces is still permissible for diminishing wear ; a single 
commutator being used, and that containing but three seg- 
ments. It is based upon the discovery by Prof, Thomson 
that a strong jet of air of small amount can effectually 
break any conducting line of particles tending to bridge 
the commutator slots, and cause the local discharge termed 
"flashing." Small nozzles are mounted directly opposite 
the tips of the foremost positive and negative commutator 
brush. 

At the moment the slot in the commutator passes the 



200 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



tips of the brush, a puff of air is sent through the slot and 
repeated at every slot. These small puffs are furnished at 
the proper instant by a small rotary, positive-blast mechan- 
ism. Fig. 118, which is moimted upon the journal-box at the 
commutator side of the machine, and within which are car- 
ried by a slotted hub H (rotated by the shaft S), a set of 
three hard-rubber wings loosely placed in the slots in the 
hub at R R R, 120° apart. 

An enclosing case of interior elliptical outline is divided 
by the hub H into two lime or crescent-shaped chambers, 
into which the rubber wings are thrown by centrifugal 

Fig. 118. 




Thomson' Houston Rotary Air-Blower, 



force during rotation. Inlet openings are provided at 1 1, 
covered with fine wire gauze to exclude particles. The 
outlets are at J J, and communicate with the nozzles over 
the commutator slots. 

By this construction, when the parts are correctly set, 
six puffs of air are obtained at every rotation, three from 
each nozzle, alternating in succession from the nozzles, and 
corresponding to the times of passage of the commutator 
divisions or slots, past the ends of the forward brushes. 

The advantages obtained by the use of the air-blast for 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 201 

high electromotive force currents are great. It removes 
all that sensitiveness to oil which is generally present in 
such cases. The Thomson machine can be run with a 
steady stream of oil pouring upon the commutator, and 
there being no carbonizable material collecting at the com- 
mutator segments, no fear of short circuits of armature- 
coils need be apprehended from that cause. 

When used as a generator, the armature-coils succes- 
sively traverse the opposed field-spaces, and the impulses 
so produced in them find connection through the commuta- 
tor-brushes to the circuit. 

The armature helices act for a portion of the time ixx 
multiple arc of two coils, as when they are traversing field- 
spaces where the impulse is considerably below the maxi- 
mum, and act alone or in series with the other coils, when 
they are producing their maximum impulse. These actions 
necessarily result from the three-coil or three-branched 
armature system. 

The mode of application of the brushes is such that when 
the electromotive force of one branch or coil has fallen 
below that of the branch or coil which follows it in sequence 
during rotation, the current is transferred to the latter, and 
the former coil, although it has not yet reached neutrality, 
is instantly put by the commutator into connection with the 
opposite commutator-brushes, there to act in supplanting 
that branch which is about to leave said brushes. 

This mode of carrying off the currents will be understood 
by reference to Fig. 114. It possesses the apparent anoma- 
lous condition of putting a commutator-segment just before 
the coil or branch to which it is attached has reached neu- 
trality of electrical action, into momentary contact or 
electrical connection with both positive and negative 
brushes of the machine, as seen by inspecting Fig. 114. 
This condition, however, gives rise to no perceptible incon- 
venience, and this latter fact is accounted for by the power- 



202 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

ful effect of the field-magnet helices in preserving the 
volume and direction of the current at the instant of the 
connection just referred to. 

During regulation the positions of the brushes are so 
altered as to enlarge this period of connection, and so 
diminish the available electromotive force of the machine. 
At the same time, also, the total resistance in circuit being 
lessened by extinction of lights or removal of resistance, 
while the current strength remains constant, the energy 
represented in the main circuit falls in proportion, and the 
mechanical energy expended in producing the current falls 
in nearly the same proportion. Thus, it is stated that if 
ten lights be shunted in a circuit of a twenty-five-light ma- 
chine, requiring for the full number or twenty-five lights an 
expenditure of eighteen horse-power at the driving-pulley, 
the consumption of power will fall below thirteen horse- 
power for the remaining fifteen lights. 

Speed variations are compensated for by the regulator 
controlling the brushes, as in cases of variations of resistance 
in circuit. 

The machine is also capable of forming a simple and 
eflScient motor. In this case the brushes of each set, posi- 
tive and negative, may be set so as to cover a smaller angle 
than is described in the case of the machine used as a gen- 
erator. Or the commutator is constructed to have its seg- 
ments overlap so that each segment covers, instead of 120'', 
about IGO"", in which case a single positive brush and a sin- 
gle negative only is used to connect to circuit. 

The three-branch armature-coil system embodied in the 
Thomson machine has been used by the same inventor in 
winding cylindrical and ring armatures ; and small motors 
have been made in which the armature-coils were wound as 
bobbins upon radial arms projecting from a hub upon the 
shaft. 

Being a distinct winding from that of the Gramme, Sie- 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 203 

mens, and other machines, it is manifestly capable of con- 
siderable modification in the form of armature-core used. 

Prof. Thomson states that a Thomson machine capable 
of furnishing electric energy su£Scient to work thirty arc- 
lights in series, with 9.8 amperes current, and an average 
resistance of 4.5 ohms per light, ha^ about 240 pounds of 
wire upon its armature, and 700 lbs. upon its field-magnets. 
And that an average of measurements puts its consumption 
of power at a little over 22 H. P., when thirty lights are in 
circuit, or a little over .7 (seven-tenths) H. P. per light. The 
energy given out as heat and light in the arcs, exclusive of 
circuits and lamp-regulating magnets, averages about .6 
H. P. The net eflSciency of the machine is therefore ap- 
proximately 80 per cent.— -K.] 



PART Y. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC AND DYNAHO-ELECTRIC MACHINES 
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF CONTINUOUS CURRENTS. 

40« Facinotti's Ringf IMiaehine. We now 

enter upon the consideration of the latest magneto-electric 
and dynamo-electric machines, which, without a commuta- 
tor, furnish uninterruptedly, during their working, electric 
currents of one continuous direction. 

As early as 1860, Dr. Antonio Pacinotti of Florence con- 
structed for the technological cabinet of physics of the 
University of Pisa, a small model of a new electro-magnetic 
machine [motor — K.], the details of which, however, he did 
not publish until 1864 in the 19th volume (p. 378) of the Jour- 
nal of Physics and Chemistry, *'Il Nuovo Cimento.^^ It is 
remarkable that this volume has the year 1863 on the title- 
page, though most of the treatises contained in it bear the 
date 1864, one even having the date " JftZano, 7 Gennaio, 
1865.'^ The illustrations we give are true copies of Paci- 
notti's very incomplete figures, with all their imperfections 
and mistakes. 

As something neWy he mentions the special shape of the 
movable electro-magnet as that of an iron ring, having the 
property of changing the position of its magnetic poles, so 
that they moved progressively around the ring, assuming 
constantly changing positions. 

This rotatable iron-ring was in the form of a cog-wheel 
(Fig. 119) with 16 cogs. This wheel was fastened to four 
arms aaaa (Fig. 120), which were securely attached to the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



205 



Fig. 119. 



axis of the machine. Upon the cogs small wooden wedges 
m m (Fig. 119) were placed, and the spaces between the 
wedges were filled with wire bobbins rrr (Figs. 120 and 
121). The direction of the convolutions was the same in all 
the bobbins, and the end of one bobbin 
was soldered to the beginning of the 
next, so that the entire system of six- 
teen wire coils formed one single wire 
spiral, returning to itself, or endless, 
encircling the whole ring, so to speak. 
Wires were soldered at the point of 
junction, and bent so as to lie parallel 
to the axis M M, and reach to the same 
number of brass pieces sunk in two superposed rows into a 
wooden cylinder C, and protruding a little on the periphery 
of the cylinder which was fastened to the axis. In Fig. 
121 these brass pieces are drawn in dark hatching. 




Petcinotti^t Iron Ring, 



PlO. 1». 



'-^^-l 


M 


"N 


)J 




\ \\i 


^ 




l^MP'*^*!i;-j^?^^T^ 




!P^ 


^, im 


■Hffin^ 


i)C®>t 


i^f."^ 


P^^H 


^B) *niiZiT7aJr^.J>^ '-^ 


^^^i^% 


^^hI 


Hr 




j>' ^pV^ 


W^ 


J 


py "^^"^ 


/#VA 


^ 


y 


A 


=^===^ 


r 





PacinottCs Ring Machine {ground plan). 



At opposite sides of this horizontal ring, the two limbs 
A B (Figs. 120 and 121) of a strong electro-magnet were 
vertically set. The lower ends of these limbs were bound to 



206 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



an iron rail F F (Fig. 121), and could be placed in greater or 
less proximity to the ring by means of the screw G. 

There were fastened in the plane of the electro-magnets, 
on two sides of the axis, two brass contact-rollers k k, the 
peripheries of which rolled on the periphery of the wooden 
wheel provided with the brass pieces, and during rotation 
came successively in electrical contact with the pieces. If, 
therefore, the clamps h h' are connected with the poles of a 
galvanic battery, the current, if it enters at h {-{-}, will pass 
over the right-hand clamp I to the roller fc, and through that 
brass piece of the wooden disk C which happens to be in 



Fio. m. 




PacinottCs Rimg Machine {tUwUi^\ 

contact with the roller, and through its connecting brass 
rod to the two wire bobbins which are soldered to that rod. 
From this point the current branches through the bobbins 
on two sides of the ring, and meet at the diametrically 
opposite junction, travels through the connecting-rod to the 
brass piece under the other roller fc, and from there to the 
clamp r. From V the current passes to the electro-magnet 
limb A, from this to the other limb B, and finally through 
the right-hand clamp A to the negative pole of the battery. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 207 

Thus the current made both the ring and the electro-mag- 
net magnetic. 

In order to utilize to the fullest extent the action of the 
electro-magnet upon the magnetic ring, Pacinotti provided 
the two poles with armatures [or better, pole extensions — 
K.] of soft iron A A A B B B (Fig. 120), which, from their 
segmental form, hugged the ring as closely as possible. 
Each encircled more than one-third of the ring, and for 
strength were connected by brass rails E E, E E. In Fig. 
121 these segmental armatures are omitted, so as not to 
hide the ring and its bobbins. 

Pacinotti correctly remarks that the iron ring must be- 
come magnetic, because it shows its poles where the rheo- 
phores {the clamps I and T as well as the contact-rollers k k) 
are fastened. The straight line which connects these poles 
could be termed the magnetic axis ; and this could, by giv- 
ing different position to the contact-pieces which are in con- 
nection with the battery, be given any desirable transverse 
(diametrical) position to the iron ring. So he calls the iron 
ring with its coils a transversal electro-magnet. He more- 
over mentions that the current branches off in two opposite 
directions in the wire bobbins of the ring ; and that its two 
halves, becoming magnetic by the current, could be consid- 
ered as two electro-magnets whose like poles are next to 
each other. Finally, he adds expressly that in his machine 
the poles are situated in that diameter which connects the 
above-named rheophores, i. e., the contact-rollers k k, with 
each other, hence in the plane of the two limbs A B of the 
stationary electro-magnet. All this is quite right ; if, how- 
ever, Pacinotti had constructed his machine according to 
these data, it would have been without any effect, because 
the poles of the rotatable ring-magnet would be in the sajne 
plane with those of the stationary electro-magnet, and 
hence no turning of the ring in either direction could have 
followed. 




208 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pacinottiy however, remarks expressly of his machine 
that it was effective, and he makes a series of experiments 
to determine the proportion of power given by the machine 
compared with the material used in the battery. For this 
purpose the pulley Q Q (Fig. 121) was set on the axis and 
connected with an appropriate weight, so that the. latter 
just sufficed to keep the ring from rotating. 

Therefore, one can only assume that 
the confusion which is unmistakably 
present in Pacinotti^s treatise, and the 
error in placing the contact rollers, as 
drawn, opposite to the poles of the sta- 
tionary electro-magnet, while they 
must be 90° distant if the machine is 
to work its strongest, is due to the fact 
Direction c/ih. Current in that a loug spaco of tlmo Kos bctweon 
Ring, according to Pacinctti, ^hc constructiou of thc machlnc in 
1860 and the publication of the treatise, between the years 
1863 and 1865 ; and that Pacinotti, in working out his trea- 
tise, did not proceed with sufficient care, and probably used 
old drawings which had served as sketches, and which did 
not correspond to the real construction of the machine. 

In Figs, 120 and 121, contrary to the Italian text, the 
poles of the ring-magnet are taken as 90° distant from the 
poles of the stationary electro-magnet, and are marked N S, 
which does not correspond to the position of the contact 
rollers, where they should be if the machine is to be effec- 
tive. In Pacinotti's machine these rollers, most likely, had 
the correct position opposite the poles N S, or 90° distant 
from the limbs A B of the electro-magnet. In Fig. 122 
there is also a mistake, because the arrow between S and 6 
must point towards S and not towards 6, as the words of 
Pacinotti expressly say. 

The above description of Pacinotti^ s ring and its action 
relates to its application in an electro-niagnetic machine: 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 209 

but Pacinotti communicated, towards the end of his trea- 
tise, exactly how, by aid of the same ring-armature, an 
electro-magnetic machine could be easily converted into a 
magneto-electric machine ; and how, by aid of a permanent 
or an electro-magnet, a continuous current flowing in one 
direction could be obtained. 

As we here enter upon the field of the latest magneto- 
electric machines, and as it is undoubtedly proven that the 
right of priority in the invention and the first application 
of ring armatures rest with Pacinotti, we give the cor- 
responding extract in literal translation from the Italian 
original. 

[As a correct translation to English of the "literal" ( ?) 
translation made by Dr. Schellen from the original Italian 
to German does not read the same as a correct and direct 
translation of the original Italian to English, I here give 
the article by Dr. Pacinotti in full by direct translation. 

*' II Nuovo Cimento.— Journal of Physics, Chemistry and 
Natural History. — Directors : C. Matteucci, R. Piria, Q. 
Meraghini. Vol. XIX. January, 1864. Published 30 
July, 1864.— Turin: G. B. Paravia & Co., Booksellers 
and Publishers.— Pisa : F. Pieraccini, Bookseller and 
Publisher." 

Page 378. — Description of a small electro-magnetic ma- 
chine of Dr. Antonio Pacinotti : 

'^In 1860 I had occasion to construct, for account of the 
Museum of Technological Physics of the University of 
Pisa, a small model of an electro-magnetic machine, de- 
vised by me, and which now I decide to describe, especially 
in order to make known an electro-magnet of a particular 
kind employed in the construction of said machine, which, 
besides the novelty it presents, seems to me to be adapted 
to give greater regularity and steadiness (constancy) of ac- 



210 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

tion in such electro-magnetic machines ; and, also, it seems 
to me, its form is convenient to collect the smn of the 
currents induced in a magneto-electric machine. 

In ordinary electro-magnets, even when a commutator 
is adapted thereto, the magnetic poles always appear in the 
same positions ; whilst availing of the commutator which 
is united to the electro-magnet that I describe, the poles 
can be made to move in the iron subjacent to the magneti- 
zation. The form of the iron of such electro-magnet is that 
of a circular ring. In order to easily understand the move-^ 
ment and the mode of action of the magnetizing current, 
let us suppose there be wound upon our ring of iron a cop-^ 
per wire covered with silk, and when the first spiral is fin- 
ished, instead of continuing the helix (elica) by going over 
that already constructed, the wire is closed, soldering to- 
gether the two ends that come near each other. In this, 
manner we shall have covered the iron ring with a closed,, 
isolated spiral entirely directed in one way. Now, if we 
connect the two poles of the pile (pila) with two very 
distant points of the wire of this helix, the current dividing 
(bi-parting) equally, runs through the helix on one side and 
on the other between the points of communication, and the 
directions that it (the current) takes are such that the iron 
must become magnetized, presenting the poles in that place 
where the conducting wires (reofori) are applied. The 
direct line that unites these poles may be called the mag- 
netic axis, to which we may, by changing the points in 
communication with the pile, give any position transversal 
to the figure or ring of iron of the electro-magnet, which, 
therefore, I like to call transversal electro-magnet (electro- 
calamita transversale). The two pieces of magnet placed 
on both sides of a direct line (retta) (in our machine it is 
the diameter) that unites the conducting wires of the pile, 
can be considered as two curved electro-magnets, placed in 
contraposition, having the poles of the same name in con- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 211 

tiguity (in presenza). In order to construct on such a prin- 
ciple the electro-magnet with which I mounted the small 
electro-magnetic machine, I took a turned iron ring, hav- 
ing, in the shape of a wheel, sixteen equal indentations, 
just as shown in Fig. 119. This ring is supported by four 
brass radii, a, a, a, a (Fig. 120), which unite it to the axis 
of the machine. Between each tooth of the small tri- 
angular prisms (in Figs. 119 and 121), made of wood, I left 
hollow grooves within which winding copper wire, covered 
with silk, I have succeeded in obtaining between each 
tooth of this iron wheel as many helices or electro-dynamic 
coils, well isolated. 

*' In all these bobbins, some of which are indicated by r 
{Figs. 120 and 121), the wire is wound in the same direction, 
and each of them has nine spirals. Any two consecutive 
bobbins, as the two r, r', are separated from each other by 
an iron tooth of the wheel and by a little piece, or triangu- 
lar prism, of wood, fn, m (Figs. 119, 120, 121). Passing from 
one bobbin to construct the following one, I have left free 
a tassel, or stirrup, of copper wire, fixing it to the piece of 
wood m which separates the two bobbins. On the axis MM 
(Fig. 121), to which the wheel so constructed is annexed, I 
have brought all the tassels that with one end make the 
end of the bobbin, and with the other the beginning of the 
subsequent one, making them pass through convenient 
holes made in a wooden collar centered on the axis itself, 
and then attaching each of them to the commutator c 
(Fig. 121), also centered on the same axis. This commutator 
consists of a low, small cylinder of wood, with two rows of 
grooves around the extremities of the cylindrical surface, 
in which sixteen copper pieces are inlaid, eight on the upper 
part and as many below : the first alternating with the 
second, all concentric with the wooden cylinder, a little 
projecting and alternating with the wood. In figure c of 
the commutator, the small pieces of copper are shown by 



212 DYNAMO-ELBCTKIC MACHINES. 

the dark spaces. Each of these small pieces of copper is 
soldered to the corresponding tassel joined between the two 
bobbins. So that all the bobbins communicate with each 
other, each being united to the successive one by a conduc- 
tor of which one of the small copper pieces of the commuta- 
tor itself makes part, and then putting two of these in 
communication with the poles of a pile by means of two 
small metallic wheels fc, k (Figs. 120, 121), the current divid- 
ing will run through the helix on one side and the other of 
the points whence the tassels start united to the two small 
communicating pieces, and the magnetic poles shall appear 
in the iron of the circle in N S. Upon such poles N S act the 
poles of a fixed electro-magnet AB, and determine the rota- 
tion of the transversal electro-magnet around its axis m, a& 
in it (the electro-magnet), even when it is in motion, the 
poles are always produced in the usual same positions N & 
which correspond to the communications with the pile. 

" This fixed electro-magnet, as appears by Figs. 120, 121^ 
is composed of two iron cylinders AB, joined together by an 
iron cross-piece FF, to which one is permanently screwed^ 
and the other is fastened by a screw G placed underneath^ 
which allows it to run along a groove in order to make the 
poles of the cylinders AB approach or recede from the teeth 
of the wheel. The current of the pile entering from the 
conducting wire hy passes through a wire to the communi- 
cation I, and from that to the little wheel k circulates 
around all the bobbins of the wheel and returns through 
the connection T, which makes it pass through another 
copper wire to the helix, which surrounds the cylinder A. 
From this coming out again, it passes to the helix of the 
cylinder B, and is conveyed through another copper wire to 
the second conducting wire h'. I have found it very advan- 
tageous to add to the two poles of the fixed electro-magnet 
two soft iron armatures, A A A, B B B, each of which em- 
braces for more than one-third of the circle the wheel that 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 213 

constitutes the transversal electro-magnet, placing them 
very near to the teeth of the same, and tying them together 
with copper guides E E, as is seen in the horizontal projec- 
tion, Fig. 120. These armatures have not been designated 
in the vertical projection, Fig. 121, of the machine, because 
they would have concealed the bobbins and the teeth of 
the wheel too much. 

**The machine works when the current passes only 
through the circular electro-magnet, but it has much less 
strength than when the current passes also through the 
fixed electro-magnet. I have made several experiments, 
keeping an account of the mechanical work which the 
machine produced, and of the corresponding consumption 
of the pile. The system adopted in these experiments was 
the following : The axis of the small electro-magnetic 
machine had a pulley QQ, Fig. 121, which was embraced 
by a belting which was closed around a very large wheel, 
and which compelled it to turn round when the small 
electro-magnetic machine moved. The axis of this wheel 
was horizontal, and a rope coiling around it, lifted a 
weight. At one of the extremities of the horizontal axis of 
the small winch was an iron, which was pressed down in 
such a manner that the weight on being raised would be 
sufficient to put in a state approaching that of motion all 
the apparatus, including the small electro-magnetic ma- 
chine, through which the current does not pass. By such a 
disposition, when the machine acts, the mechanical work 
expended to overcome the friction is equal to that employed 
to lift the weight, and in order to have all the work done by 
the electro-magnetic machine, it was sufficient to double 
that obtained from the multiplication of the weight by the 
height to which it was lifted. Having so calculated the 
mechanical work produced, in order to know the consump- 
tion that was going on in the pile for producing such work, 
a voltameter, made of sulphate of copper, was interposed in 



214 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the circuit of the current, the copper plates of which were 
weighed before and after the experiment. 

"I shall give the figures obtained in one of such experi- 
ments with the small transversal electro-magnetic machine. 
This small machine, which had a wheel of the diameter of 
13 centimeters, and was supplied by a pile of four small 
Bunsen elements, and lifted to 8"* 66 a weight of about 
3^' (2,812), having valued the friction so that it made a me- 
chanical revolution of 28^- 415. The positive copper of the 
voltameter decreased in weight 0^* 224 : the negative copper 
increased by 0** 235, so that on an average the chemical work- 
ing of the voltameter may be said to be 0** 235. This num- 
ber multiplied by the ratio of the equivalent of the zinc to 
that of the copper, and by the number of the elements of 
the pile, gives for the weight of zinc consumed 0«'951. 
Therefore, in order to produce a kilogrammeter of mechan- 
ical work, 33 milligrams of zinc have been consumed in the 
pile. 

"In another experiment made with 5 elements, the con- 
sumption was 36 milligrams for every kilogrammeter. 
These results, although not sufficient to put the new model 
notably above the other small electro-magnetic machines, 
yet do not appear to me to be bad when I consider severial 
defects of construction that exist in it, which are not found 
in other small machines of their kind. Among others I 
must note that the commutator is made of copper and badly 
centred on the axis, so that not all the contacts always take 
place sufficiently well. 

"The reasons that induced me to construct the small 
electro-magnetic machine upon the system described were 
the following : 

"1. In the method adopted the current never ceases to 
circulate in the helices, and the machine does not move by 
a series of impulsions that succeed each other more or less 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 215 

rapidly, but by a union of forces (copia) that act continu- 
ously. 

"2. The circular construction of the revolving magnet 
contributes, together with the preceding method of succes- 
sive magnetizations, to give regularity to the movement 
and the least expenditure of actual force {viva forza) in 
shock or friction. 

'^3. In it nothing is sought but that the magnetization 
and demagnetization of the iron of the electro-magnet be 
accomplished instantaneously, to which are opposed both 
the extra (estra) currents and the coercive force of which 
the iron can never completely get rid, but it is only required 
that every portion of the iron of the transversal electro- 
magnet, subjected always to the convenient electro-dynamic 
forces, pass successively through the various degrees of 
magnetization. 

"4. The external armatures of the fixed electro-magnet 
continuing to act upon the teeth of the electric wheel, and 
embracing very many of them, do not abandon its (the 
wheers) action while magnetism remains in them. The 
sparks are increased in number, but much decreased in 
intensity, inasmuch as there are no strong outside currents 
on the opening of the circuit, which may always be kept 
closed, and it is only when the machine acts that an in- 
ducted current continues directed in a contrary course from 
the current of the pile. 

" I think that the appreciation of this model may be in- 
creased by being able, with facility, to convert the machine 
from an electro-magnetic one to a magneto-electric one 
with a continuous current, when, in place of the electro- 
magnet A B, Figs. 120 and 121, there would be a permanent 
magnet, and the transversal electro-magnet would be made 
to revolve : the result obtained would indeed be a magneto- 
electric machine which would give a continuous induced 
current directed always in the same course. In order to 



216 DYNAMO-ELECTEIO MACHINES. 

find the more convenient positions for the rollers (scan- 
daglio) upon the commutator, with the object of collecting 
the induced current, we observe that through the influ- 
ence upon the movable electro-magnet are formed the 
poles opposite the extremities of a diameter in the presence 
of the poles of a fixed magnet. 

" These poles N S maintain a fixed position even when 
the transversal electro-magnet circulates around its axis ; 
therefore, with regard to the magnetism, and consequently 
also to the induced currents, we may consider and suppose 
that the bobbins made of copper wire turn round, wound 
upon the circular magnet, this remaining immovable. In 
order to study the induced currents that develop upon such 
bobbins, let us take one of them for examination in the 
various positions that it may assume. 

" From the pole N, Fig. 122, going toward pole S, there 
will develop in it a current directed in one course until it 
(the bobbin) arrives at the point in the middle a ; from this 
point further on the current will assume an inverse direc- 
tion. From S, then proceeding toward N, until they arrive 
at the point in the middle 6, the currents will maintain the 
same direction that they had between a and S. After b 
again they will invert their direction, resuming that which 
they had between N and a. Now, as all the bobbins com- 
municate between themselves, the electromotive forces of 
a given direction will sum up together, and will give to the 
total current the disposition shown by the arrows in Fig. 122. 
And, in order to gather it, the positions most convenient 
for the plummets shall be a 6 ; that is to say, the plummets 
on the commutator are placed at a right angle with the line 
of magnetization of the electro-magnet. The induced cur- 
rent varies its direction, changing the course of the rota- 
tion. With regard to the commutator, when the rollers 
are on the diameter corresponding to the line of magnetiza- 
tion in any way that the electro-magnet turns, they do not 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



217 



gather any current. Displacing them from such a position 
on one side, a direct current is obtained in a direction con- 
trary to that which would be obtained by displacing them 
on the other side. 

"In order to develop an induced current in the machine 
constructed, I approached to the magnetic wheel the op- 
posed poles of two permanent magnets or magnetized with 
a current the fixed electro-magnet therein to be found, and 
compelled the transversal electro-magnet to turn en its 
axis. 

"Both in the first and in the second manner, I obtained 
a current continuously directed in the same course, which 
showed in a galvanometer (bussola) a satisfactory inten- 
sity, even after having crossed the sulphate of copper and 
the water acidulated with sulphuric acid. It is evident 
that the second method cannot be convenient, but that it 




Pacinotti Commutator or Collector 



remains easy to place a permanent magnet instead of the 
temporary one A F E B, and then the electro-magnetic ma- 
10 



218 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 
Fie.]M. 




Vkj|ii{||il|l||!|',i!!'ll||:Ni|lii||lllli|||!|l 

Pacinctti Mocking at th* Paris Electrical Exhibition, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 219 

chine which results shall have the advantage of giving 
induced currents, collected and directed in the same course, 
without the necessity of mechanical organs that separate 
them from others opposed, and which make them cooperate 
one with the other. And this model well shows how the 
electro-magnetic machine is opposed to the magneto-elec- 
tric one, inasmuch as in the first, the electric current circu- 
lating through the bobbins, introduced therein by the con- 
ducting wires IV y the movement of the wheel was obtained 
and its mechanic work, and in the second employing me- 
chanic work to make the wheel turn, a current is obtained 
by the effect of the permanent magnet, which circulates 
into the bobbins and is carried to the conducting wires 
IV to be introduced into the body upon which it has to 
act.'^ 

Fig. 123 presents a larger view of the commutator of 
the Pacinotti motor. Fig. 124 is a view of the machine as 
it was exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition. It will 
be noticed that the rollers are here shown in the correct 
position, at an angle of 90° from that shown in the plan 
view, Fig. 120.— K.] 

48. [The £:ii£is T^aeliiiie and. tliat of 
"W^orms de Homilly. The history of the devel- 
opment of the Gramme machine would be incomplete with- 
out reference to the motor of Elias and the proposed 
generator of De Romilly. 

Elias of Amsterdam constructed an electro-motor in 
1842, a model of which was exhibited at the recent Paris 
Electrical Exposition. It is shown in Fig. 125. It does not 
seem to have occurred to him that it was reversible, in the 
sense of being an electric generator as well as an electro- 
motor. In this apparatus there is an exterior iron ring 
divided into six equal segments, and at the junctions of the 
segments are six iron enlargements which act as an equal 



220 



DYNATJO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



number of magnetic poles. On each segment an insulated 
copper wire is wound in a single course, to cover the space 
between the poles. At each pole the direction of winding 
is reversed, so that neighboring poles are of unlike polarity. 
The current which energizes this multipolar magnet comes 

Fio. iss. 




Eliai9Mat9r, 



from a galvanic battery distinct from the one which sup- 
plies the inner ring. It enters and leaves the coils on the 
horizontal line joining two poles. It is divided at point of 
entrance, and is reunited at the point of exit so that half of 
the current flows in the upper part and the other half in the 
lower part of the ring. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 221 

The inner iron ring is made of like shape with the outer, 
but has its polar enlargements made on the outer periphery 
of the ring. The coils are wound and the current is divided 
in the same manner as that of the stationary ring. It is 
mounted on a three-armed spider, keyed or otherwise fas- 
tened to the shaft. The current from another battery is 
passed to it through springs and a commutator which acts 
to reverse the direction of the current through the coils at 
each passage of the poles of the inner ring before those of 
the outer. In thisiway, the two sets of magnets alternately 
attract and repel each other in one direction — ^that of rota- 
tion. This apparatus is very suggestive of various mechan- 
ical variations of the Gramme machine, which have been 
invented anew by many experimenters in electricity. 

Worms de Romilly patented in France, March 3d, 1866, 
magneto-electric machines having annular and cylindrical 
armatures, resembling, under casual observation, those of 
Gramme and Siemens. But the coils were not connected in 
like manner. They seem to have formed in each case one 
continuous circuit without loops, but with two free ends 
which were the poles for alternating currents which could 
be turned in one direction by a commutator. — K.] 

-4rS. Construction of tlie Gri*a,mme 
AmaxsLtrvLr^. The importance of Pacinotti's invention 
only appeared after Dr. W, Siemens had published his dis- 
covery of the principle of conversion of mechanical power 
into magnetism and electricity (§§ 35 and 36). 

In July, 1871, Jamin commimicated to the French Acad- 
emy of Sciences the statement that Ghramme had invented a 
new magneto-electric machine which gave continuous cur- 
rents. On account of the lateness of the hour, his address 
was postponed till the next meeting, when the machine was 
shown and explained. 

The main part of the Gramme machine is the ring of 



222 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pacinotti (§ 46). But no doubt it was invented independ- 
ently, and that its construction was made better. 

Zenobe Theophile Gramme, a Belgian by birth, was en- 
gaged with the Compagnie TAlliance as pattern-maker. 
He had previous to that time made several inventions and 
had a number of patents for regulators of electric light and 
magneto-electric machines. 

Without knowledge of Pacinotti or his claims, Gramme 
conceived the idea of causing an inducing magnet to rotate 
within a ring encircled by wire convolutions for the pur- 
pose of generating induced currents having one direction. 




Construction of Gramme Ring, 

Afterwards he adopted the idea which Pacinotti had set 
forth, and rotated the ring between the poles of fixed per- 
manent magnets or electro-magnets. He, however, changed 
its construction, in the manner of connecting the collector 
(wrongly called commutator by Pacinotti), so as to make 
the whole more compact and substantial. [It will be no- 
ticed by the reader that the Gramme ring differs in two 
important particulars from the Pacinotti. .The Gramme is 
of uniform cross-section, and is entirely covered by the 
small bobbins. The sixteen radial projections on the core 
of the Pacinotti become by induction so many polar ends,. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 223 

either seven or eight of each name, dependent upon the 
changing positions of the ring during rotation ; all upon one 
side of a line drawn from N to S (Fig. 120) being of like 
polarity. Consequently, there are consecutive rises and 
falls in magnetism as it rotates, and therefore the electric 
currents generated in the bobbins have an intermittent and 
alternate character. — K.] 

We have already said that the winding of the soft iron 
ring consists of many bobbins of insulated copper wire 
wound directly on the iron core ; the bobbins being placed 
close together, and the inner end of each soldered to the 
outer end of the neighboring one, so that the entire number 
of bobbins form a series of convolutions constituting an 
electric circuit without end. 

Each bobbin may have any number of convolutions of 
the insulated wire, and there may be any convenient num- 
ber of bobbins. Both of these conditions depend upon the 
object for which the machine is intended — whether greater 
or less electromotive force is needed. 

While the smaller hand machines have say 30 or 32 bob- 
bins, the larger ones have exceeding 100. 

[Their number is an even one in all cases. — K.] 

The soldered junctions of the wires of the bobbins must 
be equally distant from each other, and be all upon one side 
of the ring. This side we will call the rear. 

A ring of this kind is shown at A B, Fig. 126, the rear 
side being turned towards the reader. For ease of illustra- 
tion the ring is shown with a portion cut away, and some 
of the bobbins separated from the rest. 

The core is not a massive iron ring, but is generally 
made of a number of well-annealed iron wires, because it 
receives and delivers magnetism most easily in this form. 
[In practice, the core is made up by winding upon a drum 
or cylinder of metal, coils of a continuous length of iron 
wire in regular order and layers. The two free ends of the 



224 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

wire are soldered to the mass of wire, the roughness filed 
off/ and the whole ring saturated with a solution of shellac, 
which is then allowed to dry. The surface of the ring is 
then covered smoothly with carefully-laid strips of muslin, 
or tape, and again coated with shellac. — K.] 

The space within the ring is filled by a wooden disk, or 
cylinder, which serves to carry the armature upon the shaft, 
or arbor, as well as to keep all the parts solidly in place. 
The connections between the soldered junctions of the bob- 
bins and the places where the currents are taken off are 
those shown by the L-shaped pieces of metal, R. Each 
piece is soldered at a junction of two bobbins and the shorter 
arm of the L. There is one piece for each junction. 

When these are all placed the shaft, or arbor, is forced 
in, but with some insulating material to prevent metallic, 
or electric contact between the arbor and L pieces. The 
currents are collected by means of springs, or rollers, which 
press upon the L pieces at or near B during rotation. 

[The construction of the Gramme armature just de- 
scribed is not now pursued, but is varied as follows : The 
ring core, after preparation as in our previous note, is 
marked with lines which show equal divisions to the num- 
ber of the bobbins which are to be wound upon it. 

Then the ring is clamped to the top of a securely fast- 
ened bench, or stool, so that the hand of the winder can be 
passed through it. The proper length of wire for one bob- 
bin is then taken, doubled in the middle, and one half 
passed through the ring. Segmentally formed clamps are 
fastened to the ring so as to leave a space between them 
the same as is to be occupied by one bobbin. The wire is 
then wound in and out ; first one half and then the other 
half in alternate passes. Care is taken to keep as even 
strain upon the wire as possible. When the winding of 
one bobbin is completed the ends are twisted together tem- 
porarily, and one of the clamps is moved to the next mark 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 225 

on the ring, and another bobbin is wound in like manner 
in the space between the previous one and the clamp. This 
is repeated until the ring is filled. In- this manner of wind- 
ing, the two ends of the wire are gradually worked to the 
outside, instead of the otherwise inner end being passed 
out between the bobbins, as shown in Fig. 126. 

The collector-bars are not used as shown in Fig. 126 at 
E, but somewhat as shown in Fig. 138. They are fastened 
by soldering or clamping to the wires of the bobbins as in 
Fig. 138. The inner end of the wire of one bobbin being 
fastened to the collector-bar with the outer end of the bob- 
bin next adjacent, say to the right. 

The collector-bars or sections (the L-pieces) are sepa- 
rated from each other by insulators of pressed paper of the 
same form. Insulating disks are provided with grooves to 
receive the ends so as to clamp and retain them in posi- 
tion, as in Fig. 138. This described arrangement is shown 
in the machines Figs. 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, and 144. 

The wooden cylinder has been found to give much trou- 
ble from becoming loose, in practice, owing to shrinkage. 
I have devised an expansible metal carrier to obviate 
this difficulty, which is a serious one in machines having 
armatures of large diameter. This armature is securely 
fastened to the proper place on a shaft, or arbor, with a 
pulley to receive the belt by which it is rotated between the 
poles of the field-of-force magnets, as is more fully de- 
scribed in the next succeeding sections. — K.] 

40. The Gri-amme IVIachine. Fig. 127 rep- 
resents the construction of a small Gramme machine to be 
used by hand power. It delivers a current equal to about 
that from three Bunsen cells. The ring with the collector- 
arrangement first described in § 48 will be recognized. 

The field-of-force magnets are permanent ones of steel, 
and are provided with soft cast-iron shoes, as pole-pieces 



226 



DYNAMO-KLECTRIC MACHINES. 



which encircle concentrically neariy half of the armature 
in the case of each pole, so that but a small part of the 
armature is without the direct magnetic influence. 



Fio m. 




Gramme MacAiiu, 



By division of the influence (§ 2) the part A of the iron 
ring nearest to the south pole S receives north polarity, and 
the other half of the ring receives south polarity by influ- 
ence of the north pole N. M and M' are the extremities of 
the line of magnetic neutrality. 

If the ring be set in rapid rotation by means of the 
handle on the large cog-wheel which engages with a pinion 
on the shaft of the armature, two systems of induced cur- 
rents, having contrary direction, will be generated in the 
manner described in the preceding sections. These two 
currents meet at the neutral line, and simply neutralize 
each other unless a path be furnished through which they 
can jointly flow. For this purpose Oramme has provided 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 227 

in this machine two bundles of springy copper wires which 
press upon the collector-bars which are connected with the 
bobbins of the armature, on the line M M' of neutrality. 
These bundles of wires are called brushes. They are in 
this machine in direct electrical communication with the 
binding-posts shown with the wires in them, ready to be 
connected with any electrical apparatus. In this way he 
provides for the simple and sure production of continuous 
currents of electricity. 

The continuity is, as we have already shown, due to the 
continuous moving of many wire coils or bobbins within 
the magnetic field-of -force between the poles of the magnets 
and the outer surface of the iron ring. A further advantage 
is gained by reason of the brushes being flexible and elastic 
in their bearing upon the collector-bars, so that the current- 
circuit is never broken by one bar of the collector passing 
from contact with a brush before the next one in succession 
has passed to contact. 

From Fig. 27 it is easily seen that the sum of all the 
currents generated during a rotation, t. e., the greatest 
strength, is obtained if the brushes be so placed that a line 
connecting the places of contact with the collector is per- 
pendicular to a line connecting the magnet-poles. No 
current is obtaihed if those lines be made coincident. 

If the brushes be moved closer together, but so that a 
line connecting the contact-points is not parallel with the 
pole line, a current will still be had, but a very much 
weaker one. The direction of the current differs with the 
position of the brushes. If, for example, they bear upon 
the collector-bars between M S and M' N, the direction of 
the current will be different from that if the brushes bore 
upon the bars between S M' and M N. It follows, there- 
fore, that by application of several pairs of brushes several 
currents can be conducted from one ring, the same as in 
the conducting of several currents from a galvanic battery 



228 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



of several cells. It is also evident that several such ma- 
chines may be coupled up for quantity or for tension of 
current. 

The latter object is, however, more simply attained by 
selecting the proper size and length of wire to be wound 

Fig. 128. 




Gra$nmt Mac hint /or Hand- Power, 



upon the ring. As a rule, the tension of the current, the 
rate of rotation being the same, seems to be directly proper- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



229 



tional to the number of convolutions of wire on the arma- 
ture. As, however, the electrical resistance increases in the 
same proportion, when quantity effects are desired as well, 
the wire and size of the machine must be proportionately 
increased. If, however, the external electrical resistance is 
great, as in telegraph lines, fine wires are to be preferred. 
Gramme machines of this type are made for physical and 
chemical laboratories with armatures for quantity and elec- 
tromotive force to be used in change. 



Fig. 129 



^O. The Grraninie IVIacliiiie for Haiid 
or Foot I^ower. The Cal>iiiet ]\fl!a- 
ohines. Brequet, of Paris, makes machines of this 
style which are intended for an always-ready apparatus 
for instruction in physics 
and chemistry, and for 
medical uses. They are 
made of a strength equal to 
eight Bunsen cells coupled 
in series. 

The first one of this kind. 
Fig. 128, had a large perma- 
nent magnet, and supplied 
a current equal to only three 
Bunsen cells. They were 
soon replaced by the form 
shown in Fig. 129, the mag- 
nets of which were much 
stronger. These latter soon 
after received the present 
form for foot-power shown 
in Fig. 130. 

The chief characteristic of the present machines of this 
type is the peculiar form and construction of the permanent 
magnet. This consists, according to Professor JamiUy of 




Gramme Mackint /or Hand-Power, 



230 



DYNAMQ-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



Paris, of a great number of thin steel plates, tightly pressed 
together at the sides by two clamps, but allowed to slightly 
diverge at their ends. These ends terminate in massive 



Fi». 180. 




Gramme Machin* for Foot-PotiMr. 

shoes, which act as poles to the magnet, and nearly com- 
pletely embrace the armature. 

The brushes bear upon the collector-bars as in the pre- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 231 

viously-described Gramme machines, i. e., on the neutral 
line between the poles. 

Jamin f oimd by a series of experiments the best form 
and construction of a steel, laminated magnet, and this 
construction has received his name. 

551. Tlie Grramme Largfe I>ynaiiio- 
Elective ]\fl!acliine for Gralv^anoplastie 
Fnrposes. As long as steel magnets were applied in 
machines for the production of the electric current, the 
strength of the current could not be much increased, as it 
was necessary to keep within dimensions similar to those of 
the older magneto-electric machines, such as those of the 
Society rAUiance, etc. Gramme therefore came to the con- 
clusion to replace the steel magnets by strong electro-mag- 
nets, arranged according to the dynamo-electric principle 
(§ 35), but varied its employment by using a portion only of 
the current produced by the armature to energize the elec- 
tro-magnets. It is clear that instead of one magnet with 
two poles, two magnets or electro-magnets with four poles 
can be used to act upon the bobbins of the armature. 

In this case there are only small spaces left between the 
I)ole-ends at the neutral points. Corresponding to these 
four neutral points are four wire-brushes to conduct the 
currents from the armature into two circuits. 

The first large dynamo-electric machine built by Gramme 
was made in 1872 in the shops of Brequet, for the galvano- 
plastic establishment of Chrtstofle & Co,y in Paris, and is 
still working to the entire satisfaction of the proprietors, 
without having had any repairs since that time. Towards 
the end of the same year, ten other machines were made 
after the same pattern, with cast-iron frames. This firm 
bought six of these. These machines were arranged as 
shown in Fig. 131, having four electro-magnets and two 
armatures. One armature furnished the current for ener- 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC' MACHINES. 
Jha. 181. 




Grammt Large Machine for Galfanoftastic Work. 

gizing the electro-magnets, while the other furnished the 
working current ; by this arrangement the dynamo-electric 
principle is only partly brought into action. These ma- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



233 



chines were large and heavy. Each one weighed 750 kilo- 
grammes^ and the copper wire used on it weighed 175 
kilogrammes. It was 1.30 metres in height, 0.80 metre in 
breadth, and effected a deposition of 600 grammes of silver 
per hour by the expenditure of one horse-power. Toward 
the end of 1873, Qramme built a magneto-electric machine 
for galvanoplastic purposes after an entirely different 
model, which had great advantages compared with the pre- 
ceding ones. This is shown in Fig. 132. It had but one 

Fl«. 188. 




J^e7o Gramme Machine, 



armature, and only two horizontal electro-magnets arranged 
for two consequent poles. It was smaller, lighter, and 
cheaper than any of the previous machines. Its weight 
was only 177.5 kilogrammes, and that of the copper for the 
armature and electro-magnets 47 kilogrammes. Its dimen- 
sions were 0.55 metre in length and breadth, and 0.60 metre 



234 DTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

in height. The deposit was the same as in the previous 
machine, namely, 600 grammes of silver per hour, and the 
power expended was only 50 kilogrammetres, or two-thirds 
of a horse-power. Compared with the model of 1872, this 
machine has the following advantage : (1) it only occupies 
one-half the space, (2) its weight is hardly one-fourth that 
of the previous machines, (3) the weight of copi)er is only 
one-quarter that of the former, and (4) its efficiency is 
thirty per cent, of the entire i)ower expended upon it. 

All of these advantages were obtained by omitting the 
second electro-magnet and its armature ; and by the ar- 
rangement under which the convolutions of the electro^ 
magnet, and of the armature, and the decomposition cell 
form a single circuit. Instead of the round wires with 
which the iron cores of the electro-magnets were covered in 
the former machines, each core of electro-magnets was 
enclosed with a single sheet of copper covering the entire 
length of the iron core, so that the whole covering con- 
sisted only of four copper bands. 

As in machines to be used for galvanoplastic purposes, 
quantity of current of electricity is more desirable than undue 
electromotive force, the coils of the armature consist of a 
half flat, very thick wire, which is strong enough to resist 
the centrifugal force, notwithstanding the rotations of the 
armature are 500 per minute. Neither the ring nor the 
electro-magnets are much heated, and no sparks are seen 
at the points of contact of the brushes with the collector. 

The iron frame of the machine is very strong ; while the 
steel arbor, having but little weight upon it, and only a 
small diameter at the journals, runs with very little friction. 
The polar extensions are of soft cast-iron, and encase 
almost the entire circumference of the armature. 

The dynamo-electric principle is fully carried out in 
these machines ; but this is objectionable in some cases, such 
as for instance where polarization of the galvanoplastic 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 235 

solution takes place. Complicated attachments then be- 
come necessary. 

^2. C]ri:*a.iiiiiie's I^a.T'g'e I>yna.iiio-£]lec- 
trie MEacliliies foi* tlie Frodnctlon of 
Electric Ligflit. The Ligrht Mia^cliiiies. 

It is a known fact that by the passage of a galvanic current 
through a conductor, a part of the electricity is converted 
into heat, and the temperature of the conductor is increased. 
[This phenomenon of heat is simply the result of the passage 
of the current of electricity ; some of the energy is con- 
served as heat, none of the electricity is converted into 
heat.— K.] 

This elevation of temperature increases within certain 
limits in proportion to the resistance which the current en- 
counters, and under some circumstances becomes so great 
that the conductor acquires a glowing white temperature. 
If two small carbon rods be interposed in the circuit of a 
galvanic battery in such a manner that the end of the 
metallic wire 'connected with one of the poles of the battery 
be connected with one of the carbon rods, and the other 
wire with the other carbon in similar manner, and the two 
carbons be touched together, the temperature at the junc- 
tion will be elevated so as to make them glow at that point. 
If they then be separated a little from each other, the cur- 
rent will not be interrupted, but a bridge of glowing parti- 
cles of carbon will be formed between the carbon points, 
consisting of particles of carbon carried over from the posi- 
tive terminal to the negative one. In this flame the current 
will pass so long as the space between the points be not too 
great. This space, filled by the glowing particles of car- 
bon, is called the voltaic arc. On account of the enormous 
resistance which the current encounters in a voltaic arc, a 
large quantity of electricity is converted into heat at that 
part of the circuit, and the carbon particles so heated be- 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

come intensely luminous and radiate a blinding light — ^the 
electric light. We will consider further on the properties 
of this light. 

The strength of the electric light depends upon the dis- 
tance to which these carbon rods can be removed from 
each other without extinguishing the light ; hence, in order 
to obtain a very intense light the arc must be as large as 
possible. In this case the resistance in the circuit increases 
so much that only currents of very great tension will suc- 
ceed in overcoming it. This being the case the Gramme 
machine for the production of electric light must be made 
so as to generate currents of much higher electromotive 
force than. is the case with those used for galvanoplastic 
purposes. 

According to Ohm's law the strength of current proceed- 
ing from a generating apparatus is at its maximum when 
the interior and exterior resistances of the circuit are equal. 
For the generation of an intense light, therefore, the resist- 
ance of the Gramme armature must be very great ; t. c, 
the wire with which the iron core is Encircled must be of 
much less diameter than is the case with the machines be- 
fore described, and a greater number of convolutions must 
be made. The velocity of rotation must also be greater, in 
order to convert as much as possible of the mechanical 
work into electricity, and this again into heat in the arc in 
a unit of time. 

The first light-machine built by Gramme gave a light 
equal to 900 Carcel burners. It weighed 1000 kilogrammes, 
had three armatures and six electro-magnets. The current 
of one armature served for energizing the electro-magnets, 
while the two other armatures gave the current for the 
light. The copper-wire of the electro-magnets weighed 250 
kilogrammes, and the wire of the three armatures 75 kilo- 
grammes. The machine occupied a space 0.80 metre long 
and wide, and 1.25 metres high. It was used a long time 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



237 



for experimenting in the Tower at Westminster, in Lon- 
don, and is working very well to-day, but it becomes 



Fio. 13a 




Gramme Large Machine with Two Armatures. 



238 DTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

slightly heated during its working, and shows sparks be- 
tween the wire brushes and the collector-bars. 

As no stronger light than that of 500 Carcel burners was 
then required, Oramme was enabled to decrease the dimen- 
sions of the new machine somewhat, and thereby removed 
the heating of the ring and the formation of sparks. A 
machine of this kind is illustrated by Fig. 133. It still has 
six upright electro-magnets which are set in a triangle, 
has only two armatures, and is arranged according to the 
dynamo-electric principle ; or it may be arranged so as to 
employ one armature for energizing the electro-magnets, 
and the other for the production of one electric light, or for 
two entirely separate lights. Under this construction the 
machine weighs 700 kilogrammes ; the wires of the electro- 
magnets weigh 180 kilogrammes; and the wires of the 
armatures 40 kilogrammes. It is 0.65 metre long and wide, 
and 0.90 metre high. It gives a normal strength of light 
equal to 550 Carcel burners, but can, in way of experiment, 
be made to give double that light by increasing the rapidity 
of rotation. If each armature be used for the production 
of a separate light, each light has the value of 150 Carcel 
burners. 

Machines of this class are used on ships of the French 
and Russian navies, and are also used for army purposes in 
the forts of other nations. When the armature is rotated 
at a speed of 400 per minute, no undue heat or sparks can 
be observed. The light, however, has not sufficient force 
to penetrate the air in foggy weather to a sufficiently great 
distance. 

This disadvantage Oramme also overcame. After dili- 
gent study of all the circumstances, based upon numerous 
experiments and experiences, he constructed light-ma- 
chines after another model, similar to that shown by Fig. 
134. In this machine the frame is constructed of two cast- 
iron uprights, connected with each other by two strong 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 239 

wrought-iron cylindrical bars. These bars form the cores 
of four electro-magnetic poles. These bars are also pro- 
vided with semicircular pole-pieces at the centres of their 
lengths, uniting two like poles each. 

The iron core of the armature is not, as in machines pre- 
viously described, wound with bobbins connected up in one 
series, but has* two systems of bobbins, sixty in each sys- 
tem. These two systems are wound in parallel lengths 
upon the core and branch off alternately on opposite sides of 
the armature to two sets of collector-bars, one set on each 
side. Two sets of brushes are provided, forming two com- 
plete circuits. 

The electro-magnets are energized by the currents com- 
ing from the armatures. The principle of dynamo division 
of current is, hence, fully carried out in these machines. 
One of these machines occupies a space 0.8 metre long, 
0.550 metre wide, and 0.585 metre high. Its weight is 400 
kilogrammes. The ring has an exterior diameter of 0.230 
metre, and carries 14 kilogrammes of copper wire. The 
iron cores of the electro-magnets have a diameter of 0.07 
metre, and a length of 0.404 metre. The wire wound upon 
them weighs 96 kilogrammes. 

Owing to the peculiar manner in which the wire is 
wound upon the ring, the whole acts like a double arma- 
ture, as it contains two series of bobbins completely insu- 
lated from each other, each series having its own collector 
and set of brushes. 

Both series can be coupled so as to furnish quantity or 
tension currents. In the latter case, with a speed of 700 
per minute, they give a light equal in strength to 800 Car- 
eel burners. Coupled for quantity, the strength of light 
increases, with a speed of 1350 rotations per minute, to 2000 
Carcel burners. 

This model was adopted by the French, Austrian, Rus- 
sian, Norwegian, Turkish, and other governments, and was 



240 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



well recommended. Recently machines were built after a 
similar but rather more advantageous model, which gave 
the enormous light of 5000 Carcel burners, or that of 3500O 
normal parafi^e candles. 

This last construction Gramme afterwards simplified, 
and made machines of smaller dimensions, but employed 
only two electro-magnets, still with a double ring and two 
collectors and sets of brushes. Fig. 134 shows one of these 
machines of 183 kilogrammes total weight. The copper 
wire for the electro-magnet and the ring together only 
weighs 47 kilogrammes. Its length and width is 0.53 me- 
tre, the height 0.60 metre. Under normal working it give& 
a light of 200 Carcel burners, but it can be made to give far 
beyond this for a short time. 

Fio. 184. 




Crammers Light Machine with Double Armature. 



Under this construction, also, the two halves of the ma- 
chine can be coupled as desired, for either quantity or ten- 
sion, by aid of the connections at the base. The halves 



CONTINUOUS-CUEKKNT MACHINES. 



241 



can also be used for the production of two independent 
lights, which is of great practical importance^ as we shall 



Fig. 186. 




11 



Simplest Gramme Light Machine. 



242 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

see further on, because the divisibility of the electric cur- 
rent of a machine^ or of a battery, for the production of 
more lights than one is accompanied with difficulties. 

The most sunple Oramme machine consists of only two 
magnets and one armature. And such a one is sufficient 
for many industrial purposes, such as galvanoplasty, and 
for illumination of large spaces, factories, halls, working 
places, etc. Fig. 135 shows one of these machines. It 
weighs but 180 kilogrammes, and measures 0.60 metre in 
height, has a width of 0.35 metre, and a length, including 
the pulley, of 0.65 metre. The stand weighs 120 kilo- 
grammes, and has a height of 0.40 metre. The electro- 
magnets have 28 kilogrammes, and the armature 4.5 kilo- 
grammes of copper wire. 

Though having only this small quantity of wire, and 
rotated at a speed of 900 rotations per minute, the light, 
without reflectors, attains a strength of 1440 Carcel burners 
when the carbon points are exactly in line. 

Oramme has recently built new models of his machine 
which serve to supply current to several voltaic arc lamps 
in one circuit. In general arrangement they resemble the 
machine represented in Fig. 135. In consequence of the 
conditions necessary for maximum effects : ('' the internal 
resistance must equal the external resistance," ''the elec- 
tromotive force of the machine must equal twice a counter- 
electromotive force,") the wire is coiled differently about 
the armature. 

[While both of these laws may be correct so far as gal- 
vanic batteries are concerned, the first one does not apply 
to dynamo-electric machines. — K.] 

Oramme has excited the electro-magnets of his machine 
for the production of several lights on one circuit by sepa- 
rate dynamo-electric machines, under which arrangement 
special advantages are gained. In the Paris Exposition of 
1881 Gh'amms had machines running 5, 10, and 20 lamps. 



CONTINUOUS CUKRENT MACHINES. 



248 



The machine for 6 lamps, particularly, had an elegant and 
solid appearance. Each lamp, gave a light equal to 150 



Fig. lae. 




Imfrcved Gramme Mocking. 



Carcel burners. The carbons cost 0.15 fr. (3 cts.) per hour 
for each lamp. 

Such a machine can be made to feed 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 lamps, 
as desired. To do this it is only necessary to alter the 
number of rotations, and the resistance of the outer circuit 
to a corresponding extent. 



244 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

[Fig. 136 shows the construction of Gramme machines 
in 1881. The noticeable feature is the flat form given to the 
cores of the field-magnets. — K.] 

S3. Tlie FuUer-Grramme 31!a.eliiiie. 

[The only manufacturer in the United States of the Gramme 
machine^ as so called in commerce, is The Fuller Electrical 
Company of New York City. The machine has been im- 
proved in mechanical details of construction by Mr. James 
J. Wood, the electrician for this company, as well as in- 
creased in size and electromotive force, even to the extent 
of supplying fifty arc-lamps placed in series, on one circuit. 
The model is nearly the same for all sizes. Fig. 137 is a 
view of one of these machines, which is of much more 
pleasing outline than machines of like name which we have 
been describing. Thejr vary in size and weight, from 10 x 24 
inches base and 250 pounds weight, to 23 x 55 inches base 
and 3500 pounds weight for one-light and fifty-light ma- 
chines, respectively. The lights are of 2000 candles power, 
nominal. Figs. 138 and 139 exhibit the details of construc- 
tion of the armature. Upon the shaft k the gun-metal, five- 
armed, spider i is keyed. The arms of this spider are of the 
exact radius of the inside of the armature-core y, which is 
made up of an annular coil of iron wire. Clamps I Z, which 
grip the wire core are screwed m m to the ends of the arms 
of the spider. Pieces of wood n are placed to fill up the 
spaces left by the arms between the bobbins on the periph- 
ery of the core. The spaces o under the pieces are used for 
the reception of pieces of lead when needed for the sake of 
obtaining a balance in the weight of the armature. The 
periphery of the whole is tightly bound by bands s s s oi 
stout brass wire soldered together, under which are placed 
insulating bands of tape. The core is well wrapped with 
shellacked tape for insulation. The bobbins are wound by 
beginning in the middle of each length of wire which con- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 245 

Fro. 137. 




FuiUr-Grammg Machimt, 



stitutes the bobbin, and winding it on both ways between 
clamps which are tennporarily placed on the core at the 



246 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



proper distance apart for the width of the bobbin. Pressed 
cardboard is placed between each two adjacent bobbins for 




increased security in insulation. By this mode of winding, 
the two ends of wire are brought to the outside without the 
crossing necessary when wound from one end. The inner 
and outer ends of adjacent coils are secured to the arms r 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



247 



of the collector by screw-clamps^ instead of by soldering, as 
in the other Gramme machines. 

The segments h of the collector are held m conical 
grooves in rings of insulating material inserted in disks of 
metal which form the heads of the collector. These last 
are held in the position of clamping the segments by two 
circular nuts, one of which acts as a jam-nut for the. other. 
This construction enables the operator to remove any seg- 
ment of the collector for repairs or replacement within 
a short time. Damaged bobbins can also b^ more readily 
removed and replaced by new, by reason of the absence of 
the solid hub of wood heretofore used. The collar serves to 
keep the shaft in place, as it is placed on one side of a 
journal-bearing and the pulley on the other. Fig. 140 shows 
the complete armature, collector, shaft and pulley. 

The brushes are each composed of a number of thin rib- 
bons of copper, superimposed and held by proper clamps 
which are fixed near the 
ends of the two arms of a 
yoke, but insulated there- 
from. This yoke is pivoted 
on one of the bearings, with 
its arms extending at an 
angle of 90° from the shaft, 
and its two brush-clamps, 
or holders, extend at an an- 
gle of 90° from that, so that 
they are parallel with the 
shaft or face of the col- 
lector. 

The normal bearing of 
the brushes on the collector is on the line of magnetic 
neutrality for the greatest effect, but if they be moved for- 
ward on it in direction of the rotation, the effect produced 
is a decrease in both electromotive force and intensity of 



Fig. 189. 




£Md Virw FulUr-Gramtiu Armature, 



248 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



current. But if the number of lights be decreased, conse- 
quently the external resistance, the current will rise again 
to its former magnitude^ but not the electromotive force, as 



.iffltnTinirii^ 



I 




I 



that is determined for a given magnetic strength by the 
position of the brushes on the collector; or, in other 
words, by the number of bobbins or convolutions between 
the central line of magnetism joining the field-of-force 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 249 

magnet poles and the line joining the brushes. On the 
front end of the machine, Fig. 137, is a hand-wheel which 
is connected by gearing with the yoke, so that by moving 
the wheel the brushes may be moved to any desired posi- 
tion on the collector while the machine is in motion, to suit 
the number of lights running in circuit. The wheel is fas- 
tened by a catch, and a scale is made thereon so that the 
catch may engage with it at any desired position, to suit 
the number of burning lamps. 

The Fuller Electrical Company now makes its large 
Gramme machines with the automatic brush-moving regu- 
lator shown in Figs. 141 and 142 attached. This regulator 
is the invention of Mr. J. J. Wood, the company's elec- 
trician. 

Fig. 141 is an end view, and Fig. 142 a side view of the 
collector-end of one of the fifty arc-light machines. The 
reference letters on the two figures are alike for like parts. 
The shaft k is extended through the end, and has there a 
small friction-roller x fastened to it. The wheel w has an 
annular groove in it a little wider than the diameter of the 
friction-roller x, and the groove covers the roller so that 
when moved a little laterally, one or the other of its walls 
comes in contact with the periphery of the roller. The 
wheel w has its axis on the short end of the lever v. The 
long end of that lever is attached by a link to the core u of 
the solenoidal-magnet 1 1 It has also attached to it the 
adjustable spiral spring c, which serves to counterbalance 
the magnetic pull of the electro-magnet 1 1^ and the dash- 
pot piston h to prevent too rapid movements. Set-screws at 
i serve to limit the extent of the vertical movements of the 
lever. 

The wheel w gears with the wheel m, which gears with 
the wheel j/, and this last has its axis extended through the 
side h of the machine. On this axis is the pinion n, which 
gears with the cogs on the hub of the brush-holder yoke o. 



250 



D7NAM0-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



The collector is shown at jp, and one of the brushes at r, the 
other brush being hidden by the collector. Parts of the 
field-magnets are shown at/ and g, Fig. 142. 

When the brushes are on the neutral line, as we have 
explained in § 10, the available electromotive force of the 

Fio. 141. 




Fu/Ur-Grammt Mackinty with WwhTs Regulator, 



machine is at its maximum. But when the brushes are 
moved forward in the direction of the rotation of the arma- 
ture, the electromotive force decreases progressively imtil 
at the angle of 90"" therefrom it is nih This regulator is 



CONTINUOUS CUEEENT MACHINES. 



251 



based upon this principle, and its operation is as follows : 
The main circuit is made through the coils of the electro- 
magnet 1 1, and the attractive force thereof due to the nor- 
mal current flowing therein during the operation of the 
machine is counterbalanced by adjustment of the tension of 

Fio. Itt. 




F$Ui*r^ramm€ Machin*^ with WootTs Regulaiar* 



the spring e. Any increase of current above the normal in 
the coils oi it causes the upward movement of u and its 
attached lever v. This movement brings the inner wall of 
the annular groove against the roller a;, and this f rictional 



252 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

contact insures the movement of w;, m, y, n, and o on their 
axes, and the movement of the brushes in the direction of 
rotation of the armature, and the consequent decrease of 
electromotive force of the machine, and the resumption hy 
current of its normal strength. 

Any decrease of current below the normal decreases the^ 
magnetic force of 1 1, and then the spring e pulls the lever u 
downward. This movement brings the outer wall of the 
groove in w into frictional contact with x^ and then the 
wheels and brushes are moved in the contrary direction 
until the normal current is restored by reason of increase 
of electromotive force due to the position of the brushes. 

If the decrease of cxirrent is due to progressive decrease 
of speed, the brushes might be moved too far, and breakage^ 
occur if provision was not made for the contingency. In 
making seven-eighths of a rotation, the wheel y and its 
attached pinion n moves the brush-yoke from and to the 
extremes of adjustment. A pin is provided on the wheel y 
at Zy which, when it reaches its extreme backward point 
due to too low current, engages the lever v and lifts it so as 
to remove w from contact with a?, and thus stop the move- 
ment of the wheels. 

An automatic apparatus working by increase of magnet- 
ism in the field-magnets of the machine, to make a shunt- 
circuit around the magnet-coils t t, for increasing the 
sensitiveness of the regulator has been devised by Mr. 
Wood.— K.] 

S4r. The IMCa^cliiiies for tlie Transmis- 
sion of Power l>y Electricity. This special 
application of dynamo-electric machines will be found of 
great importance and receive general attention. Those con- 
structed by Gramme are represented in Figs. 143, 144, and 
145. 

A clear insight to the construction of this machine is 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 253 

obtained by examining Figs. 144 and 145. Fig. 144 is a 
longitudinal section, and Fig. 145 a cross-section. The 




Gramtr/s Machine /or the Electrical Transmission of Power. 



measurements in millimetres are placed thereon. The oc- 
tagonal frame, made of one piece of cast iron, covers the 
important parts, renders it very compact and substantial, 
and protects the working parts from injury. 

It will be seen that four poles are provided with eight 
magnetic cores, which are so placed that those which come 
together on the polar ends are of like polarity, and that the 
four poles are alternately of opposite name, and generate 
four poles in the ring of the armature. These four poles in 



264: 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



the ring remain in the same place relatively to the station- 
ary parts of the machine, but may be said to travel in the 




ring itself when rotated. The same principles are observed 
in this as in the other Oramme machines. 

Further details of the applications of this machine will 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



255 



be set forth in that part of Vol. II which treats of the elec- 
tric transmission of power. 



riQ. 14Ba. 



, 






^^ 


\ 


tJ^^ 




, 



Dirtviion tfCurrtnit in Ociaiottal Mackiiu» 

[SS. The MiorFigrlie !M!a.cliiiie is constructed 
after the Gramme principle by The McTighe Electric light 
and Manufacturing Company, of Pittsburgh, Pa. It is 
shown in Fig. 146. It varies from the Gramme machine in 
details of construction which possess novelty and utility. 
The field-magnet has but two limbs, which are vertical ; 
and their conjoined or consequent poles are placed at right 
angles to them, so that the line of neutrality on which the 
brushes impinge upon the collector is at right angles to the 
line joining the poles and on the same plane with the neu- 
tral magnetic line of the magnetic cores. This construc- 
tion secures a very compact machine, which occupies but 
small floor space. It is claimed by the inventor that 'Hhis 
arrangement allows the current in the inducing coils to 
directly induce magnetism in the pole-pieces, and as a con- 
sequence there are absolutely no lines of force branching 
out externally from the pole-pieces, but all are concentrated 
and directed inwardly, producing an exceptionally intense 
field of force for the armature.'' 



256 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pio. 146. 




Tht McTight Machine. 



The armature-core is built up of a number of incomplete, 
flat, sheet-iron rings, of the form shown in Fig. 148. The 
gap, by reason of which the ring is called incomplete, is of 



CONTINUOUS CUEBBNT MACHINES. 



267 



a size to allow the passing of a bobbin. Fig. 150, edgewise 
through the gap. After placing side by side the desired 
number of rings, with their gaps forming one channel line, 



Fig. 147. 




McTight Armaiur§ Cort. 

"the requisite number of bobbins are threaded on the ring, 
and then the several numbers of the ring are moved to or 
fro, until the gaps are distributed over the circumference. 
This makes, substantially, within the bobbins a complete 
iron core, such as is shown without the bobbins in Fig. 147, 
and with the two brass spiders which serve to support the 



7X0. 14& 




Incom^Uie Ring, 



core and bobbins. The whole constitutes the armature, 
placed concentric with the shaft. Fig. 149 is a section of 



258 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



the armature, showing the bolts which pass through the 
holes shown in the ring, Fig. 148, and serve to firmly bind 
the whole together. The spiders are well keyed to the shaft. 
The bobbins, one of which is shown by Fig. 150, are 
wound in a channelled mould of sectoral form, so that each 







bobbin is a true section having the desired number of 
degrees of the ring forming the total number of bobbins. 
In this way the coils may be more easily and uniformly laid, 
with greater certainty of perfect insulation. In case of 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 



269 



damage to any bobbin of the armature, it may be removed 
and replaced by another in a short time. Each bobbin has 
its convolutions securely tied together, and the whole is 
securely boimd by a wrapping of strong tape for protection. 



Fie. ISO. 




Bobbin. 



The collector is shown in section in Fig. 151. It is made 
up of the same number of segments as there are bobbins in 
the armature, and each has the form shown in Fig. 152. 
Each segment is cut from a bar of copper or bronze having 
like segmental cross-section. The two semi-circular re- 



PlQ. 151. 




Section of Collector, 



cesses shown in the ends are then milled, so as to leave a 
-thin web on one side. The strip carrying the screw-clamp 
shown in Fig. 152, is then riveted on it. The screw-clamps 



260 DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

serve to bind the wires from the bobbins into good electrical 
connection. 

The two disk-shaped heads of the collector have circular 
grooves turned in them, into which rings of insulating 
material are pressed. These are shown in section by the 
semicircular dark spaces in Fig. 151. Badial cuts are made 



Fio. 162. 




I 



ColUct&r Segment, 

across these rings to receive the webs left on the segments, 
so that when in position they will be equally spaced around 
the circle. In making up the collector, one head is laid on 
the bench, and the segments are placed in the radial cuts, 
and then the other head is put on with its cuts admitting 
the webs of the upper ends of the segments. The whole is 
then put on the shaft and fastened in place by jam-nuts, as 
shown by Fig. 151. It is usual to place between the seg- 
ments strips of asbestus board cut of the proper shape to 
allow their retention, though the collector may be used 
without these. 

The manufacturers furnish the following tabulated state- 
ment of the size and performance of one of their machines : 

Width 15 inches. 

Length 20 

Height 15.6 *' 

Weight 250 pounds. 

Wire on Field Magnet 62 

Wire on Armature 13 *' 

Resistance of Field Coils 1.6 ohms. 

*• Armature Coils 1.6 ** 

Diameter ** " 8 inches. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 261 

Rotations of Armature per minute 1600 

Resistance, external, including 8 lamps 15.2 ohms. 

Electromotive Force (mean) 185 volts. 

Current intensity 10 amperes. 

Percentage utilized in 8 arc lights. 82 per cent. 

Horse-power 8.1 

Our own equations are C* x i? = 1620 ; Xf^ = 2.037 h. p. ; 
t^p = 66 per cent, utilized in lamp circuit. 

For incandescent lighting, a machine of the above size 
and weighty suitably wound, gives 24 sixteen-candle-power 
lamps for an expenditure of 3 horse-power. — ^K.] 

SG» rrhe £:<lisoii-Gr]:*a.miiie IMCacliiiie. 

Mr. Edison has devised a massive winding for a Gramme 
armature, for use where currents of great intensity and low 
tension are desired. This armature may be used in any 
cylindrical magnetic field. 

The object in view is such an improvement upon electri- 
cal generators and engines of the Gramme type that the 
inactive portions of the bobbin will have an exceedingly 
low resistance, so that the internal resistance of the machine 
will be reduced to the minimum. This is accomplished by 
forming the bobbin-coils of bars which extend on the out- 
side of the ring parallel with the axis of rotation, and of 
plates on the inside of the ring, the bars and plates being 
connected to produce a continuous bobbin by radial end- 
bars. The alternate bars or coils are connected with col- 
lector-bars. The plates which are the main inactive portion 
of the bobbin have a very low resistance. 

Fig. 153 is a perspective view of a portion of the arma- 
ture, and Fig. 154 a cross-section of the armature. 

A is the ring of the armature. 

B represents the exterior bars. 

C represents the interior plates, which are preferably 
beveled, as shown, and are placed at an angle to the axis of 



262 



DYNAHO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



Fiaa, 1S8 and 164. 




Edu<m'Gramm4 Armature. 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 



263 



rotation, in order to form, with the exterior bars B and 
radial end-bars D, a continuous bobbin. The alternate bars 
D at one end of the armature are connected with bars E, 
which form or are connected with the bars of the collector- 
cylinder. 

Each exterior bar A may be made in one piece, with the 
two radial-bars D at its ends, and the collector-bars E may 
be formed by bending the ends of the proper bars D out- 
wardly. 

Fig. 156 shows a variation devised by Mr. Edison of the 
Gramme machine. The large ring d and / is rotated on the 



Fro. 1S6. 



Fro. 166. 




Edison PoU-^iece, 



Edison Mackint, 



axis a. It is thus passed through a north-field and then a 
south-field, as at n and s. The cross-section of one of the 
poles is shown by Fig. 165, in which c is one of the spokes 



264 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

of the armature ; d is the core or ring, and n the pole-piece. 
The bobbins are successively cut out and cut in to circuit 
only in the neighborhood of the* poles. During the remain- 
der of each rotation they are idle, for cooling purposes. — K.] 

ST'. I>eiicieiicies of th.e Gri^amme IMCa^ 
cliiiie. With all the advantages of the Gramme arma- 
ture machines which we have described, and which make 
them superior to the older machines, especially in respect 
to the absence of the commutator, they have certain disad- 
vantages, which are in the main due to the construction of 
the armature. The imperfections mainly relate to the com- 
paratively small eflBciency of the copper wire used in the 
armature, and in the heating of the armature and the elec- 
tro-magnets. 

From what we have said about the inductive action of 
the stationary magnet poles upon the bobbins of the arma- 
txire rotating between them, it will be seen that this action 
takes place almost exclusively on the outer side of the wire 
convolutions, as they are the only portions which are 
exposed to the magnetic field of the stationary poles. The 
inner portions of the wire within the iron core of the arma- 
ture remain almost totally unaffected by the induction. 

Therefore it will be seen that only a comparatively small 
portion of the wire is situated at any time where it receives 
any of the inductive influence of the stationary poles, as the 
core of the armature acts only as a magnetic shield, pro- 
tecting the inner portion of the coils from induction. 

The heating of the machine results from several causes. 
Primarily, the current which flows through the conductor 
generates heat in it as a result of overcoming the resistance. 
It is known that thin platinum or iron wires placed in a cir- 
cuit carrying a strong current are heated to a white heat. 
It, as well as the voltaic arc, which gives the highest heat 
when excited by the action of a strong galvanic battery, is 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 265 

only generated by the resistance which the molecules oflfer 
in both cases to the passage of the current. 

In the Qramme machine; as in every other closed circuit, 
all the wires through which the current passes must, there- 
fore, be heated in proportion to the quantity of the current, 
and in inverse proportion to the size of the wire. The ele- 
vation of temperature in a Ghramme armature is increased 
because no current at all is generated in a large part of the 
wires, and the bobbins near the neutral magnetic line gen- 
erate only very weak currents. 

Another source of continuous creation of heat is in the 
continuous movement of the magnetic poles generated in 
the core of the ring, so that the molecules of the core are 
kept in continual motion during the working of the ma- 
chine, and a part of this molecular motion exhibits itself as 
magnetism, and another part as heat. Besides this, each 
part of the ring, during rotation, changes its magnetism 
progressively from north to south and south to north. This 
reversing molecular action exhibits itself as heat. If the 
ring is rotated a thousand times per minute this change of 
polarity must take place in ^his of a minute. This time is 
too short for reversal of magnetism, consequently in all 
portions the molecular motion existing is in conflict with the 
contrary kind which seeks existence, and not only gener- 
ates a harmful weakening of the poles, but also a mode of 
molecular motion which manifests itself as heat. Ghramme 
endeavors to obviate the last named deficiency by not mak- 
ing the iron core of the armature massive, but building it 
up out of a single well-annealed iron wire, as shown in 
figure 126. In this way the magnetic laziness, so to speak, 
is partially, but not entirely, overcome. 

If we add to these causes of heating those resulting 
from the heat due to those currents which are always gen- 
erated in metallic conductors when moved in a magnetic 
field (Foucault currents ; heating of a copper plate rotated 
12 



266 DYNAMO-BLECTEIC MACHINES. 

in a magnetic fields etc.)} it is easily understood that in 
large machines which contain many conyolutions, and 
whose electro-magnets contain a great power in conse- 
quence of the great rapidity of rotation of the armature, 
the bobbin wire can even be heated to a white heat, or to 
the degree of carbonization of the insulating materials. 

The dimensions which can be given to dynamo and mag- 
neto-electric machines are limited by the relation between 
these heating effects and the quantity of current desired. 
If all the mechanical power expended in the rotation of the 
armature could be exclusively converted into magnetism 
and electricity, this class of machines could be made of the 
largest dimensions and would possess unlimited power for 
the production of magnetism and of electric cxirrents. [Dr. 
Schellen^s theory is here at fault, as is practically shown in 
the machines of Mr. EdisoUy Weston and others herein 
illustrated and described. — ^K.] 

The recognition of these deficiencies in the Oramme ma- 
chine, and in fact in all other dynamo-electric machines, 
have given rise to various constructions calculated to avoid 
them, which are considered in the following pages. 

Oramme has worked with untiring zeal at perfecting his 
machines. That his efforts meet with success is shown by 
the report of the Chatham Military Engineering School, 
which enumerates the advantages and disadvantages of 
his later machines in the following manner : 

'^ Gramme Model D. 

" Advantages : 

" 1. This current generator yields a considerably more 
powerful light than any other machine tested. 

'^ 2. The attendance on the machine may be entrusted to 
less experienced persons without fear that the wires will 
suffer through heating, or from the formation of sparks. 

"3. During continuous operation for six hours, imder 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 267 

the same conditions as with two Siemens machines, and 
with a current of 68.6 Webers, the temperature of the wires 
rose 71° F. After six hours' continuous operation with a 
current of 83.6 Webers the temperature rose 110° F. Under 
the same conditions, the temperature of the armature of a 
Siemens machyie rose 110° F, and that of the electro-mag- 
nets 86° F, with the current of 55 Webers. 

" The electro-magnets of the Qramme machine get hotter 
than does the armature. Therefore, the maximum tem- 
perature can be observed without stopping the machine. 

^'4. Absence of sparks. The formation of sparks at the 
brushes is very slight and often imperceptible. Conse- 
quently, the wear of the collector and brushes is very small. 
The brushes are easily placed in their proper position, and 
are so arranged that when necessary, they can be moved in 
either direction longitudinally. 

'^6. Simplicity. Since the machine has but few parts, 
the connections are easily made and followed. 

"6. In the light arc, with a conductor having a resist- 
ance of 0.498 OhmSy 47.8 per cent, of the work was utilized. 

'^7. The number of rotations (600) is less than that of 
either the two medium-sized Siemens and less than half 
that of the CHramme Model C (1200) ; consequently, the wear 
of the machine and of the moving parts is less. 

'^ Disadvantages : 

'^ The cost of a CHramme machine. Model D, is £360 ster- 
ling, about one and a half times as much as that of the two 
Siemens machines. 

" Gramme Model C. 



'^Advantages : 

'' 1. The machine can be run by workmen having little 
experience, without fear of injury to the Yrires by overheat- 
ing. In this respect this current generator excels all other 
apparatus tested. 



268 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

*'2. During continuous operation for six hours, and 
under the same conditions as with the two Siemens and the 
(Gramme Model D, with a quantity of currrent of about 
83.6 Webers, the temperature of the wires rose but 30° P. 

"3. Absence of sparks. Same as advantage 4, of 
Qramrae Model D. 

"4. With a resistance of 0.627 Ohms in the external con- 
ductor, 54.48 per cent, of utilizable work was obtained. 

**6. Simplicity. See advantage 6, of Gramme^ s D. 
Compactness, see advantage 7, of Chramme D. 

" The cost of this machine is J5240 sterling. Nearly the 
same as that of the two Siemens machines of medium size, 
with collector. When necessary, the current can be divided 
by a Blandy commutator for the production of two lights. 

^' Disadvantages : 

"1. The quantity of light obtained is only 19500 candles. 
About the same as that of the two Siemens, and about 30 
per cent, less than that of Gramme D, with 500 rotations. 

"2. The great speed of 1200 rotations per minute might 
cause considerable wear of the machine and moving parts. 

" Two A Gramme Placed in Connection. 

" Advantages : 

"1. Cheapness. The cost of these two current gen- 
erators, with collector, is only £170 sterling. 

'^2. These current generators are heated about the same 
as the other Gramms machines. 

^'3. Absence of sparks. Same as advantage 4, of 
Chramme D. 

" 4. By using these current generators singly, two lights 
can be produced. 

^'Disadvantages: 

" 1. The quantity of light yielded by these generators, 
which is about 18800 candles, is insufficient for military 
purposes. 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 269 

"2. When these generators are operated in connection, 
reversion of the magnetism easily occurs, causing great 
interruptions and loss of time/' (See Section 42, for the 
verdict of the same commission on the Siemens machine.). 

[Much has been written, pro and con, on the Gramme 
Armature. 

The theory that the core acts simply as a magnetic shield 
is not tenable. 

That it may so act to a certain extent we do not deny, 
nor do we deny that the portion of the circuit external to 
the core, between that and the pole-pieces, is more strongly 
affected by induction. But it is evident to all who will 
consider the matter that the progressive movement of the 
magnetic poles of the ring, during rotation, must affect the 
internal and external wires alike ; in the same manner as 
the movement of magnetism in any electro-magnetic core 
induces electric currents in all parts of its coils. — ^E.] 

£SS. Fein's I>yiiaiiio - Electric !M^a-> 
chine. The disadvantage which has been, mentioned, 
that the poles of the electro-magnets act only upon the outer 
portion of the wire coils of the armature of the CHramme 
machine, while the inner parts are almost entirely uninflu- 
enced, acting merely as resistance, is avoided in a great 
measure in this machine, which is made in Stuttgart. It is 
to be remarked, however, that Schttckerfa flat-ring machine 
was made much earlier than this was. This machine is 
constructed so that the wires are cirranged in such relation 
to the poles that nearly their whole length is subjected to 
the action of the magnets. Fig. 157 shows a longitudinal 
section of one of these machines, and Fig. 158 a perspective 
view of the same. 

The cylindrical-shaped ring B B is composed of a great 
number of very thin iron rings, superimposed and insulated 
from one another. The wire coils are placed upon it as in 



270 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the Gramme machine. It is fastened by means of screws 
and nuts to the brass spider S S, the hub of which is tightly 
keyed upon the shaft which is rotated by the pulley J. The 



Via. 157. 




Feir^s Dynatno- Electric Machine, 

ends of the wire coils pass through insulated holes in the 
arms of the spider to the current-collector C, placed some- 
what outside of the f rame, so as to be easily attended. 

The iron cores of the electro-magnets E E have their 
poles at M and M', which are made to nearly surround the 
ring, as in the Chramme machine. Polar extensions A A are 
provided, attached to the poles M M', and made to reach 
around the ring, so as nearly to cover the inside of it, as 
shown in Fig. 157, so that nearly the whole of the wire 
moves in the magnetic field. The effects which these ex- 
tensions produce can be seen by comparing those produced 
when the pole-pieces A A are in place, and when they are 
removed, so that the machine acts only as a Oramms. 
Fein claims that scarcely one-half of the quantity of current 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 271 

is yielded by the machine when these pole-extensions are 
removed. 

Siemens & Halske^ as well as Schuckerty sought to avoid 
the disadvantage under consideration in another manner. 
They both tried to use a flat ring instead of a cylindrically 
shaped one, and rotate such an armature between the poles 
of two electro-magnets placed so as to act inductively on 
both sides of the ring at the same time. Siemens & Halske 




Fein's DyMamo-EUctric Machine. 

built a machine after this plan in the year 1875. They did 
not, however, attempt further developments in that direc- 
tion, but turned their attention to a construction which 
appeared more advantageous. Sigmund Schuckerty how- 
ever, continued to work at perfecting the flat-ring machines, 
and met with success, in so far that they were installed in a 
number of places, and have proved very satisfactory. 

55 O. Sclmclcei^'s I>yiiaiiio - Electric 
Fla.t-A.]:*iiia.ti].i*e !M!a.cliiiie« Fig. 159 shows the 



272 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Schuckert machine in perspective, and Figs. 160 and 161 
show it in longitudinal section and cross section, respec- 
tively. Schuckert endeavored to better the Oramme ma- 



Fro. IflO. 




Sckucktrfs FUU'Armaiure MachtMe. 



chine by increasing the extent of surface of the bobbins^ 
forming the ring exposed to the inductive action. For this 
I purpose he gives the armature a flat shape, and allows the 
poles of two electro-magnets to act inductively on both sides 
of the ring simultaneously. 

The frame is constructed of two cast-iron standards con- 
nected by wrought-iron cylindrical bars, which form the 
cores of the electro-magnets. This construction can be 
regarded as two horseshoe electro-magnets^ which are 
joined at their like poles so that M M/ Fig. 160, and M' M' 
are the cores of the electro-magnets. The flat^ bow-shaped^ 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



273 



I)ole extensions S S and N N embrace more than two-thirds 
of the surface of the armature. Thereby the magnetization 
of the iron core of the armature and the inductive action 
upon the wires becomes very strong, because the action 
takes place from both sides at once. Thus it is that nearly 
the whole length of the wire on the armature is utilized. 
The currents are taken off from the armature as in the 
Chramme machine. 

The iron core of the armature does not consist of a mas- 
sive piece, nor of coils of wire, but of a lot of insulated flat 



FfO. ? V> 




Sekucktrfs Flat-Ring Machine^ Longitudinal Section, 



rings of sheet iron, as shown in cross section, Fig. 160, the 
thick black marks there representing the insulating disks, 
or rings. The magnetic laziness of a temporary magnet 
increases in proportion with the mass of iron ; so with mas- 
sive iron cores a long time is requisite in which to change 
the magnetic condition. In the layers of iron having small 



374 DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pio. 161. 




Schuckerfs Fiat-Ring Machine^ Cross Section. 



Fig. 162. 




SckuckerCs Machine for One Light, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



276 



mass, as in the core of the armature of this machine^ the 
progressive change of polarity takes place more readily, so 
that the maximum of magnetism is obtained^ and the heat- 



Fio. 163. 




Schuckerft Machine for Divided Light. 

ing of the parts completely avoided. As a result, we have 
the fact that there is a lessened expenditure of power for 
moving the armature, as complete use is made of the wire 
upon the armature, and all the magnetism is converted into 
electricity. 

Schuckert fastens the ring upon the axis by metal arms, 
while Oramme uses wood, for the purpose of avoiding the 
disturbing action of induction upon moving masses of metal 
in the magnetic field. Such a metallic connection greatly 
adds to the steadiness of the machine. As in the (Gramme 
machine, the collector-bars are insulated from one another, 



276 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

and are of the same number as the bobbins upon the ring ; 
their number, however, varies according to the purpose for 
which the machine is constructed, between 10 and 100, 
somewhat in proportion to the desired tension of the cur- 
rent. The connections and circuits are as in the case of the 
Oramme machine, but in place of soldering the segments of 
the collector to the junctions of the wires, they are fastened 
together by screws so as to be easily removed for renewal. 

• Fig. 1H4. 




SchuckerCs Machine /or Galvanoplastic Purposes. 

Such an exchange is, however, only necessary after a ma- 
chine has been used for several years, as the wear is very 
small, and each segment is about 2 millimetres thick. 

As a rule, Schuckert carries out the dynamo-electric prin- 
ciple to the full extent in his machines, so that the current 
generated in the armature passes through the electro-mag- 
nets and the various materials in the outer portion of the 
circuit (carbon-light regulators, galvanic baths, etc.), all 
forming one circuit. As with Oramme, an automatic cur- 
rent-breaker is interposed in the machines built for galvano- 
plastic purposes, which automatically breaks the current 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



277 



Fig. 16& 



and separates the electro-magnets from the circuit, if by 
any reason the current diminishes during the running of 
the machine, or at the time of stopping the same, thus 
avoiding the effects of currents returning from the baths. 

If the current must pass through baths of metallic solu-. 
tions having great resistance, the electro-magnets, if used 
strictly within the dynamo-electric principle, would not be 
magnetized suflSciently. In such cases, the machines are 
provided on both sides of the ring with a binding-post, and 
a connection is made through 
the same, so that a small por- 
tion, about oixe-third of the 
current, is passed directly 
around the electro-magnets, 
while the remainder of the 
current is employed for work. 

In other cases, two rings 
are fastened on the same axis, 
as shown in the sketch, Fig. 165. These machines are pro- 
vided with connections capable of being utilized, so that the 
currents generated in the armatures can be run in series or 
in multiple arc, for tension or quantity purposes, or be used 
separately. 

This principle has not found much use, because the con- 
struction is so complicated. 

The proportions of the Schuckert machine and its 
eflBciency can best be judged of from the following table 
(p. 278), which contains a compilation of the most impor- 
tant dimensions for some of the machines. Not all large 
machines are considered, but always the smallest, a me- 
dium, and the largest machine of the different types were 
selected for the purpose. 




Schucktrfs Dcuile XtMg. 



278 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIO MACHINES. 



I O oQ 

n 



2 S 

I ^ 



^1 






i 

§ 



^ 



sig 



ga 






I 



H 
tH 

H 

Hi 

H 

02 



iHod 



00^ 



S>0 O 



8! 

CD ( 



OQO 
Od O 00 



:2! 



rHCOOO 



-♦«C«-* 









P 

H 

> 

H 



CO 00 "^ 



00 QO 00 



th c?5^- 



CsiCD''* 



tH C0< 



:g 









HI 

M 

A 
Q 

m 
» 
Q 
iz; 
<l 
D 

iz; 



e«coo« 

rndd 



COCO '^ 

09 «o d 



ooo 



CO (0 « 



etsl> 



iH too* 



•*•«»© 



1^ 





M 
EH 
00 

<! 


> 
hi 
<l 




S85 

' Jiioq jad 

oiv^idlaaid 

J9daoo 



888 

odd 



<NC 






S8! 






tHCO OS 



OC^iO 



CONTINUOUS CUKRBNT MACHINES. 279 

[OO. rrhe HoehhcLusen AfAohiiies. These 
machines are made by the Excelsior Electric Company of 
New York City. They are made of various sizes, to supply 
from one to fifty arc lamps in series. One has been made 
large enough to run seventy lamps. One of the larger 
sizes is shown in perspective in Pig. 164. An excellent 
description of them has been written by Mr. C O. Mail- 
loux for The Electrical Worlds New York. His descrip- 
tion we here reproduce. 

"The Hochhausen machine is of the continuous-current 
description, and as its armature is of the cylindrical form, 
wound in sections looped together and connected to a com- 
mutator containing a segment for each section, it may be 
classed with machines of the Gramme-ring type, so-called, 
the prototype of which was the ring armature of Pacinnoti. 
Outside of this generic resemblance, however, there is but 
little in this machine which recalls any other. It is, in fact, 
of an entirely original design, as shown by the perspective 
view given in Fig. 166, and we shall find that it presents 
many points of difference in construction as compared with 
other machines of the same class. 

"The design of dynamo-electric machines generally con- 
templates that the iron used to form the large electro-mag- 
net whose magnetism is to furnish the "magnetic field'' 
in which the armature revolves, shall answer the purpose 
of frame-work as well. Such is the case in this machine 
also, but the arrangement of parts is very singular. It is 
perhaps more clearly shown in Pig. 167, which represents 
an elevation of the commutator end. The frame-work is in 
reality an upright case, consisting of two thick plates of 
iron, cast in one piece with the base and top, and bent or 
expanded outward at the middle, as if to make room for the 
armature. This, it will be readily seen, affords a strong, 
rigid frame for the machine. To provide a bearing for the 
pulley end of the armature shaft, the two curved portions 



280 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



of this frame are joined hj a bent z-shaped arm bolted 
securely to each curved plate, as shown at the right side of 
Fig. 166. The bearing is at the center of this x-shaped arm 



Fio. 1A6. 




Tk4 HockMausen Dynamo, 



which, it is plainly seen, serves at the same time to insure 
greater solidity in the framework. The bearing at the com- 
mutator end of the shaft consists of a strong ^-shaped 



CONTINUOUS CUBEENT MACHINES. 281 

Fie. 167 




Cbmueiicn* on the Hochkaustn Dynamo. 



standard separately bolted to the base-board or platform. 
This arrangement is preferable to the use of another double 
arm similar to that at the other end, which^ while it might 



282 . DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

add to the strength of the frame, would render the access to 
the commutator less free than it is. To remove the armature, 
in case repairs or changes are to be made, it is only neces- 
sary to unscrew this standard and remove the pulley from 
the shaft of thot armature, which may then be pulled out 
whole. The field magnet cores are slipped inside the 
framework and held in place by large bolts passing through 
the top and the base respectively. The two bolts which 
hold the upper magnet core are shown in Fig. 166. The 
pole pieces form part of these cores. 

" Mechanically considered, then, the design is very simple 
and quite perfect. The framework is cast, and but little 
work is needed to prepare it to receive the magnet cores, 
which can be made separately and wound in a lathe. In a 
word, the construction of this part of the machine is ren- 
dered easy and cheap, while no desirable quality is sacri- 
ficed. Now let us consider the design from the electrical, 
or rather the magnetic, point of view. Theoretically, the 
best design is of course that which yields the strongest 
magnetic field with the smallest number of turns of wire 
on the magnet cores, or, to be more exact, with the least 
expenditure of electrical energy. To do this, it is evident 
that the magnetism developed by the current passing 
through the wire around the field magnet cores must be 
utilized to the best advantage. That is precisely the object 
aimed at in this case. The current passing through a wire 
is capable of developing magnetism on all sides, and it 
would exert its maximimi magnetic power on a piece of iron 
entirely surrounding it. In this case the lines of magnetic 
force due to the current pass wholly through the iron, instead 
of but partially. In the ordinary electro-magnet the lines 
of force pass for a part of their course through the air or 
other medium. To make them useful throughout their whole 
course it would be necessary to make them pass entirely 
through iron. If we place an iron cylinder around the coil 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 283 

these "stray" portions of the lines of force are picked up 
and become appreciable as magnetic power. This cylinder 
will in reality constitute another magnet whose poles are 
the reverse of those of the magnet core inside the helix. 
Thus the same current passing through a number of turns 
of wire is made to develop more magnetism. This is the 
secret of the efficiency of tubular magnets. Now, if we turn 
to this machine, we can readily understand that the flat 
plates of the framework, lying close to the wire of the field 
magnet, act as the outer portion of a tubular magnet, and 
thus appropriate the magnetic effect produced on the out- 
side of the wire helices. ^These flat plates are after all only 
the same as the back piece which joins the two arms of an 
ordinary U magnet, only in this case the two poles of the 
U magnet are turned in a line toward each other instead of 
being parallel and side by side. It is easy to see that the 
magnetic effect produced by the helices directly on these 
flat plates becomes added to that produced on the mc^gnet 
cores themselves. 

" The armature is of the cylindrical or widened ring form. 
This is a form which we notice has been discarded of late 
years, and which is even disparaged by electrical engineers, 
as a rule, unless used with an interior magnetic field, 
which acts upon the portions of wire situated inside the 
cylinder. Armatures of the narrow ring form are almost 
universally preferred. Nevertheless, Mr. Hochhausen has 
retained the wide ring armature, and he assures us that its 
performance compares very favorably with that of arma- 
tures of any other shape and form. It seems quite possible 
to us, however, that both may be right. With a magnetic 
force of certain intensity it makes no difference, of course, 
whether all the lines of magnetic force are cut by the por- 
tions of the wire sections which are on the outside of the 
core, or whether one-half of them are cut by the portions of 
wire inside the core, since each section, taken as a whole, 



284 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 



will cut the same total number of lines of force in the same 
time in both cases. There is this difficulty, however, that 
if the magnetic field is very intense, and if all the lines of 
force are to be cut by the outside portions of the sections 
only, they must be crowded or condensed together on the 
outside of the core, which may become saturated before it 
can concentrate all these lines of force. Once the point of 
saturation is reached, the lines of force not concentrated 
are not useful. If the armature is so disposed with respect 
to the magnetic field, however, that some of the lines of 



Fio. 168. 








" ' ^m. '■ -^' m - -ii*iign>i<iimiiii>inimiAnmi ^ 

Cctutrhction o/Armaturg Core of Hochkauten Dynamw, 

force can pass around the margin of the ring and become 
concentrated on the inner surface of the core, which is not 
saturated, the crowded condition on the outside is relieved, 
and more lines of force can therefore be brought into play. 
It is, no doubt, the case in many machines that the mag- 
netic field is stronger than is needed to saturate the arma- 
ture core, and that waste of energy occurs in consequence. 
To utilize all the lines of force the armature must be con- 
structed so as to saturate less readily. This appears to be 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 285 

the case with the armature of the Excelsior machine whose 
core is laminated. 

"The armature is interesting of itself as a wonderful 
specimen of mechanical ingenuity, adaptability, and perfec- 
tion. The core is sectional, and the troubles incident to 
winding the sections on a continuous ring are avoided. 
This armature core is the same as if made of a number of 
thin iron discs placed close together, with the exception 
that the discs are each made of four pieces. Two of these 
quarter discs are shown separately in Fig. 168, which repre- 
sents twQ of the four sections of an armature-core united 
together, one being partially dissected. The quarter discs 
are all punched alike out of thin sheet iron about one- 
sixteenth of an inch thick. The two denticulations at one 
end are farther apart than those at the other. This is be- 
cause there are two rows of holes in the flat transverse 
pieces into which they fit and by which they are held in 
place. In fitting them, the narrow and wide-dented ends 
are alternated. Otherwise, it would have been necessary 
to make all the holes in a row, thereby greatly weakening 
the fiat piece. To give solidity to each section, there are 
three quarter-circle pieces of malleable iron, one in the 
middle and one at each end, all three held firmly between 
the two fiat transverse pieces by screws, as shown in Fig. 
166. The pieces at either end are rounded so the wire may 
touch evenly. To prevent the quarter-discs from touching 
each other, a hole is bored through every alternate one, and 
a piece of wire is passed through and bent. The low.er one 
in the fig^e shows one of these wires. 

" The number of sections employed is sixteen. Mr. Hoch- 
hausen recognizes the fact that a larger number of sections 
would produce a more theoretically continuous current, and 
perhaps more economically, but the increased* complication 
which the multiplication of sections involves is not com- 
pensated for, in his opinion, by the little benefit derived. 



286 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



^^A marked advantage in this manner of constructing 
the armature is that the sections of wire intended for the 
armature can be woimd separately in a mold-bobbin. Not 



Fie. 169. 



Otu oftk§ ArmaiMrg Bobbin* 
of Hochhausen Dynamo, 



F». 170. 




Section of the Armature 
of Hochhausen Dynamo. 



only the winding is more easily done, but the chances of its 
being faulty are much diminished, and, above all, the insu- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 287 

lation can be properly attended to. Fig. 169 shows one of 
these sections ready to be slipped on the armature core. 
The outside layers are protected by cotton, paper, or other 
material, and the bends are tightly wound with cotton 
cloth and painted, so that the section may retain the form 
given it in the mold. The ends of the wire are also looped 
and insulated. To place the sections on the core, one of 
the transverse strips is unscrewed, and they are slipped into 
place. Each core section of course receives four wire sec- 
tions. Fig. 170 shows one-half of the armature-core with 
its wire sections in place. 

"The core sections are connected to each other so 
as to form a ring by means of screws which join the 
contiguous flat transverse pieces together. The holes for 
these screws are shown near the ends of the flat pieces in 
Fig. 168. 

After two sections are connected together, the ends of 
the two flat pieces are rounded and threaded, as shown 
plainly in Fig. 168. There are four of these screw-tips at 
each end of the cylinder, and it is by means of them that 
the armature is mounted upon its shaft. For this purpose 
brass spiders are used. These tips pass through four holes 
in the circumference of the spider, but are insulated from 
the spider by bushings and washers of gelatinized fibre. 
Then by means of nuts the spiders are firmly secured to the 
armature. The circumference of the spider at the conmiu- 
tator end of the armature carries four square projections 
resembling the jaws of a lathe-chuck, into which the * com- 
mutator-disc' (Fig. 171) is received. This is another very 
interesting feature of the armature. The commutator seg- 
ments are insulated from each other and from the shaft 
only by air-spaces and not by insulating fibre or other simi- 
lar material. It is therefore easy, by slipping a piece of 
card-board between the segments, to dislodge any copper 
dust, oil or dirt there, and thus obviate those short circuits 



288 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fis. 171. 




between segments which sometimes lead to the burning of 
an armature section. 

"Each segment has a tail-piece disposed radially on the 
disc and screwed to it firmly. The disc, which is of slate 
or soapstone, has a small hole near the outer end of the 
radial portion, of each segment through which the wire 

leading from each connection 
between two contiguous sec- 
tions of the armature is passed, 
for the purpose of making con- 
nections to the commutator. 
These connections are not 
soldered, but are made by in- 
serting the end under a small 
brass clip, which by means 
of two screws holds it firmly 
against the radial portion of 
For convenience, the commuta- 
tor segments are numbered in rotation. These clips are 
shown on the radial ends of segments, 7, 8, 9, 10. 

" This armature presents many advantages which will 
suggest themselves to electricians. Its laminated structure 
with free spaces between the wire sections affords easy and 
effective ventilation, by which the armature is kept quite 
cool, even when run for a long stretch. Another advantage 
is that the sections are all so nearly alike that the armature 
is quite symmetrical when * strapped' with bands of fine 
wire, and from this it follows that it needs but little bal- 
ancing, and that it can be revolved closely to the field mag- 
net. It may be interesting to state here that the depth of 
wire on the outside of the core is around half an inch — 
rather more in the larger and rather less in the smaller 
ones. 

**For a No. 5 machine adapted for 25 arc lights, the 
depth of wire is ^^ inch. The wire (No. 16 B. & S.) in each 



ColUctor of Hochhaustn Dynamo, 



the commutator segment. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 289 

section occupies 11 layers of 22 conyolutions each. The 
diameter of the armature is 13^ inches, only tV i^oh play 
heing allowed between it and the field, which has a diam- 
eter of 13i inches. The total internal resistance of this type 
of machine is 30 ohms, measured at rest between the bind- 
ing-posts. When supplying 26 arc lights through an aver- 
age circuit, it develops an electromotive force of about 
1,260 volts and a current of 10 amperes. ♦♦♦♦♦♦ 

" In the last article we pointed out the effect of the sat- 
uration of an armature-core, and we intimated that the 
laminated form of armature-core in this machine allows of 
better utilization of the magnetic field in which it is re- 
volved. To explain this point more fully, we will say a 
word on the effects of subdividing the iron in armature- 
cores. 

'^To secure subdivision of the magnetic mass in an 
armature, the core is sometimes made of fine iron wire 
v^ound in a reel. In other cases the core is composed of 
very thin discs of sheet-iron, which are separated from each 
other by a thin paper or a space. Now, so far as the elimi- 
nation of Foucault induction is* concerned, the fine wire 
core is evidently the best, especially if the wire strands have 
been carefully insulated from each other. But so far as 
penetrability to the lines of magnetic force is concerned, 
the thin disc forms are better. This can be inferred from 
our knowledge of magnetic actions. If a molecule of iron 
is already polarized in a certain direction by the passage 
through it of a line of force, it evidently resists the effect 
of another line of force tending to polarize it in another 
direction. Its re^istance is in fact much greater than that 
which its own coercive force would offer, just as if the 
existing polarity had added to its coercive force. The 
stronger the existing polarity, the greater this resistance to 
change. 

'^The lines of force from one magnetic pole enter the 
13 



290 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

armature-core^ and then turn to follow the direction of the 
circumference of the armature on their way to the other 
pole. Now if all the magnetic mass of the core is to be 
made useful, the outer portion or periphery of the core must 
not be permitted to be polarized by these lines of force to a 
greater extent than the inner portion, for it will soon reach 
the point of saturation, and the " magnetic capacity " of the 
armature — ^if we may use the term — ^will be limited even 
while the inner part of the armature could easily concen- 
trate and transmit more lines of magnetic force. But if the 
armature core is made of iron wire wound closely together, 
it is necessary for the lines of force to penetrate transversely 
through the outside layers in order to reach the inner ones, 
and if these outer ones are already polarized in the direc- 
tion of the circumference, they resist the penetration more 
or less actively, according to the degree of saturation. If, 
however, the armature is made of discs, the lines of force 
can pass between them, and they are concentrated on their 
lateral surfaces. The mutual repulsion of the lines of force 
themselves assists this process. It is easy to see, however, 
that if the space between the discs is restricted, the lines of 
force will be prevented from penetrating very deep. It is 
therefore an advantage to leave spaces between the discs, 
and to make them thicker, so as to receive the same mag- 
netic mass. This is what has been done in the armature- 
core of the Excelsior machine, and we can now understand 
why it is that this armature can dispense successfully with 
the interior field-magnets found necessary with widened 
ring armatures. 

"The device for holding the brushes and for moving 
them backward or forward, according to necessity, is very 
simple and good in the Excelsior machines. It consists 
merely of a large brass ring, B C (Fig. 172), held in place by 
four rollers, rrrr (Fig. 167), screwed into the pole pieces. 
This ring, therefore, moves concentrically with the commu- 



CONTINUOUS CURBBNT MACHINES. 291 

tator, and when it is moved the position of the brushes B B 
<Fig. 167) is varied. When the position is to be regulated by 
handy a suitable insulated handle is attached to this ring ; 
but when the regulation is accomplished automatically by 
means of the motor, to be described, then the ring is pro- 
vided with fine gear for a portion of its circumference at 
the right-hand side, as shown in Fig. 166. 

*'Each brush holder is double, so that there are two 
brushes, on each side of the commutator. These brushes 
-do not touch the commutator side by side, but one is placed 
^ little in advance of the other, the space between being 
^qual to about one segment. The function of the second 
brush thus electrically connected to the regular brush is to 
Bhort-circuit each section in turn for an instant, just as it 
passes the neutral point in the magnetic field. It is well 
known that each section of wire in a Gramme armature 
constitutes an idle resistance for a moment in each revolu- 
tion, that is to say, while it is passing over the neutral point, 
at which time it is not contributing its share to the current. 
The idea of using two brushes is to short-circuit this idle 
section and thus reduce the internal resistance. Where the 
{sections are so few and so large (comparatively) as in the 
Excelsior machines, a device of this nature would seem to 
be desirable. 

" A very important device applied to the Excelsior ma- 
chines is the switch used to put the current on the external 
circuit or take it oflf without giving rise to injurious sparks. 
It is the handle of this switch which is shown at the left in 
Fig. 166. Its operation will be readily understood from 
Fig. 167. The principle of this switch is simply to short- 
-circuit the armature, and cut off the current from the field 
magnets before the external circuit is broken. For this 
purpose the two metallic contacts d d are brought near 
enough so that the switch A may touch them both together 
when at S. If the switch were turned the other way, the 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

external circuit would be closed. As it stands, the external 
circuit is opened and the armature short-circuited. The 
Begulator: It is very desirable that the supply of current 
should remain constant in an arc light circuit, and it is also 
desirable that the power consumed should diminish when 
some lights are cut out of the circuit, and for this reason it 
is necessary to have recourse to regulating methods. About 
the easiest is to move the brushes away from the neutral 
point when less current is required. By this operation 
gome of the sections find themselves '^ commutated'' on the 
wrong side, and they counteract the induction produced in 
the sections on this side, so that the available electromotive 
force is lowered. This has the effect of decreasing the cur- 
rent in the circuit. If the brushes are moved back 90 de- 
grees from their normal position, then no currents will be 
collected, as just half of the sections will be commutated 
wrongly on both sides, and they will exactly neutralize the 
induction in the others. Thus it is possible to so adjust the 
brushes that any desired current may be produced. When 
the decrease required is very small, say one arc light or 
two in a circuit of ten or fifteen, this method is satisfactory 
enough, and the reduction in power required to drive the 
dynamo, though not as low as with other means of regula- 
tion, is yet nearly proportional to the decrease. But when, 
the variation is greater, the regulation is not so economical. 
However, the majority of cases only need a small range of 
regulation, and this method of regulation is all-sufficient. 
"Mr. Hochhausen has applied this method to his ma- 
chine in a most interesting manner. The brush-holder 
ring is geared on a portion of its circumference, and a 
pinion / (Fig. 172), turned by a small electro-magnetic 
motor, engages these gears, causing the ring to turn, and 
with it the brushes. This small motor (Fig. 172) consists of 
a small ring armature revolving between two small field 
pieces F F, which are bolted to the upper and lower pole 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 293 

F».17S. 




Rtgulator of Hockkauten Machine, 



pieces respectively, and derive their magnetism from them. 
The speed is reduced by a large wheel e. This wheel moves 
a small pinion, which again reduces the speed by gearing 



294 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

'^ith a larger wheel controlling pinion /. The geared por- 
tion of the ring B Cis removed in this figure. 

" The regulation is effected by a device which, when the 
current in the main circuit is too strong, causes the motor 
to turn so as to displace the brushes, or causes it to move the 
other way so as to give them greater lead when the current 
is too weak. This controlling device might be an electro- 
magnet included in the main circuit, and acting upon an 
armature, controlling the connections of the motor circuit. 
The field magnet itself, however, is in reality such a mag- 
net. As long as the strength of current remains the same 
the magnetic power of the field magnet does not change, 
but the instant the current varies the power of the field 
magnet suffers a change, and an armature placed in prox- 
imity to the field magnet can be made to detect these 
changes. 

" The apparatus controlling the motor, and consequently 
the brush, is shown boxed up in Fig. 166, and with the cover 
of the box removed in Fig. 172. The armature is pivoted 
horizontally and is connected directly with the right bind- 
ing post, branch s' being given off at this connection, how- 
ever, to a shunt 5", as more clearly shown in Fig. 168, in 
which m is the armature here shown vertically for con- 
venience. Attached to the armature m is a small vertical 
metallic bar 6 (Fig. 172), which, when the normal amount 
of attraction is exerted upon the armature, presses equally 
on two contacts c c', from which wires 8, 9 (Fig. 167) lead to 
shunts R' R, and from which wires p p also lead to the motor, 

** Starting at the negative binding post JST, and following 
the circuit by the wires 2, 3, etc., we come to W, which at 
u gives off a branch (7) that goes to the shunt and past the 
motor. At v this line divides into two circuits through R 
and JB, through 8 and 9, to c c', to 6 to 12 to P. Both sides 
of the motor are of the same potential, and consequently it 
does not move. If the current in the main circuit falls^ 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 296 

then the retracting spring controlling the armature m (the 
tension of this spring being adjustable by a screw shown in 
^g* 17^ ^^ cause the armature to fall back, and thus & 
will be tilted until it leaves contact with c'. In this con- 
dition we find, on following the circuit from v, that the 
current is passing partly through R, 9 c', to c, through the 
motor which would be set in motion, and partly through i2' 
through 8, to c. If there were no resistance in the coil J?', 
then the motor would be short-circuited. As it is the motor 
receives a current due to the diflference of potential be- 
tween the two ends of B'. On the other hand, if the cur- 
rent in the main circuit were to have been too strong, the 
motion of the armature m would be such as to tilt c out c ' 
contact. On following the circuit from v now, it would be 
partly to i?', 8, through the motor, to & to 6, and partly 
through J?, 9 to c', and the motor would move in an opposite 
direction. This method of regulation is very prompt and 
quite eflfective. By way of demonstration of this fact, Mr. 
Hochhausen's assistant, Mr. Oswald, placed for us a large 
arc light machine on short circuit, by means of a short 
stout wire touching both binding posts. Instantly all the 
lights went out, there was a play of fire at the commutator 
for a few seconds, the motor turned at a dizzy speed, and 
then all was right again. The regulation was complete. 
It is seen that one of the branches from v always shunts a 
greater portion of the current past the motor. But the 
branch 11 to t; itself does not receive all the current, a por- 
tion being shunted past through the branch 7, to shunt coil 
to 11. The latter shunt could be dispensed with, since there 
is always one of the contacts c' c completing the circuit, 
but its use insures the continuity of the circuit in case of 
derangement of the contact arm 6, or from any other cause. 
Moreover, with this shunt, the sparks produced when the 
platinum points & c leave contact are prevented. It will 
also be understood that by regulating the resistance of this 



296 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Bhunt the amount of current diverted through the motor 
branches, and consequently the speed of the motor, may be 
regulated. 

" Although this regulation is intended specially for use 
on series-wound machines for arc-lighting, Mr. Hochhausen 
also applies it with success to machines of the same build, 
but shunt-wound, which the company manufactures for 
incandescent lighting. In this case the control of the motor 

Fio. in. 




Hochkaustn EUciroplating Mtukine, 

cannot be effected by an armature subjected to the attrac- 
tive influence of the field-magnet, whose strength increases 
inversely with the current in the external circuit instead of 
directly. A separate magnet is therefore used. Besides 
this, the regulation of the current in shimt-wound machines 
is also provided for by means of a hand-regulator, by means 
of which the amount of resistance introduced in the field- 
magnet circuit is varied. 

"The resistance coils are looped between the contact 
segments, which are arranged in a circle, and form one 
continuous circuit. Connections are made from one bind- 
ing-post to the first segment on one side and from the other 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 297 

binding-post to the switch-lever. Thus, supposing the 
right-hand binding-post to connect with the first segment 
at the right, and the left-hand one to connect with the switch 
lever, then, as the switch stands, there are three of the 
resistance coils included in the field-magnet circuit. In one 
of the shunt- wound machines which we saw at the Excel- 
sior Company's factory, the switch lever of the field resist- 
ance reg^ulator was attached by way of experiment to the 
brush-holding ring, and thus the same movement sufficed 
to adjust the brushes and regelate the resistance in the 
field-magnet. 

" The Excelsior dynamo-electric machines are made in 
types numbering from No. 1 to No. 6. When series-woimd. 
No. 1 produces one light of 2,000 candles. As another ex- 
ample. No. 5 series-wound supplies 25 arc lights of 2,000 
candles (nominal) and shimt-woimd 250 incandescent lamps. 
The speed of the latter machine is 750 revolutions per min- 
ute. This speed is often increased for the purpose of sup- 
plying a greater mmiber of lights per machine. The 
machine is so well constructed that a speed of 1000 revolu- 
tions can be maintained with safety." 

Fig. 173 shows one of Hochhausen's machines for elec- 
troplating and galvanoplastic purposes. This is a series 
dynamo, and of necessity has a polarity protector on it to 
prevent change of magnetism of the poles by return cur- 
rents from baths which have become polarized. A better 
arrangement is to have the field electro-magnet coils shimt- 
wound, as then it does not require protection of the kind. 

The Excelsior Company has recently completed a ma- 
chine of this latter type, which gives a current of 3000 
amperes and a difference of potential at the binding-posts 
of 3 to 4 volts. 

Fig. 174 illustrates a machine made after one of Mr. 
Hochhausen's earlier patents by the Amoux-Hochhausen 
Electric Company. It may be called the horizontal model. 



298 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



It does not have his improved devices and attachments. 
-K.] 



Fie. 174. 




Horitumtal ModeL 



61. The Oa.na.llized-ning' j^raciatiMre 
of Heinricli. C. F. Heinrich has recently made an 
annular armature in a form which may obviate some of the 
faults which we have set forth. It is represented in Figs. 
175 and 176. The cross-section of the iron core is horseshoe 
shape, and is composed of either solid soft iron, or prefera- 
bly of iron wire. 

The conducting wire is wound only over the outer sur- 
face of the horseshoe shape. 

The poles of the field-of -force magnets are made of a 
shape concentric with the form of the armature, as shown 
at N N N S S S, Fig. 176. 



CONTINUOUS-CURRENT MACHINES. 



This form of the poles enables them to act upon a greater 
part of the conducting wire of the armature, the proportion 
of active to inactive wire being as 10 to 4. Furthermore, 



Fies. 175 and 176. 





HeinricVs Armature. 

the inductive action is only upon the active wire, so that 
strength of current is gained by avoiding counter induc- 
tion. The observations of Deprez justify considerable ex- 
pectations of increased eflSciency from this machine. 

Finally, the canal in the core is useful as a path for cur- 
rents of air to circulate therein for cooling the conducting 
wires which become heated by the current ; and also for 
cooling the iron-wire core which becomes heated from the 
constant, progressive changes of magnetism. It will be 
seen that the iron wire and the copper wire are both in 
direct contact with the current of cooling air. 



63. I>esiiioiid Gr. Fitzgerald's IMEct- 
cliiiie. Magnet faces similar to those described in the 



300 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



FuM. 177 and 17a 



preceding section are a feature of this machine^ represented 
in Fig. 177. This modified form of the ring differs from the 
Gramme ring in so far that it is divided into several seg- 
ments. The magnet poles surrounding the ring are com- 
posed of several pieces. P and P 
are rings, closed in themselves, 
and nearly surroimding the an- 
nular armature, and which are 
fastened to the frame of the ma- 
chine by means of the lugs J J. 
To allow placing the electro-mag- 
net I in position, it is composed 
of two equal pieces, which are 
joined together in the vertical 
plane of the central line of the 
shaft F. 

As shown in Fig. 178, the wire 
is coiled about the electro-magnet 
symmetrical to the same vertical 
plane, in which also are the poles 
of the electro-magnet, above or 
below, as the case may be. Therefore the field-qf-force 
magnet is a combination one, like two horseshoe magnets 
placed with like poles together. Nothing positive about 
the eflSciency of this machine can be stated as yet. 

Uppenborn correctly remarks : ** We must emphasize an 
important consideration in reference to the building of the 
machine. The manufacture of the double curved electro- 
magnets will probably prove very difllcult. Surfaces of 
this kind (the inner of the electro-magnets) cannot be made 
with such accuracy as seems desirable, or rather necessary, 
for this purpose. 

" To avoid the danger of the ring grinding on the mag- 
nets, which would soon render the machine unfit for use, the 
spaces between both would have to be made much larger,, 




Fitzgerald's Ring and EUctro-magnet* 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 



301 



to greater disadvantage of the inductive action than is the 
case with other dynamo-electric machines/' 



Fio. 179. 




7%4 OQUA^r Machint, 



03. rriie Oiilclieir IMEa^cliiiie. The magnetic 
field of this machine is produced by eight magnetic cores, 



302 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 

of oval cross-section, which are arranged in two groups of 
four each, in such relation that their free ends face each 
other, while the other ends are fastened to two vertical, 
disk-like uprights, which carry at their centres the bearings- 
of the shaft of the armature. 

The pole-ends of each two cores which are on the same 
horizontal line are of like polarity, and are connected by a. 
U-shaped pole-piece, which presents its inner face concen- 
trically to the armature. The eight cores,^by reason of 
these pole-pieces, form four magnetic fields of alternately 
north and south polarity. The core of the armature is made 
of iron wire, as in the Gramme machine, and it resembles it 
also in other particulars. But instead of being entirely 
covered by its bobbins, spaces are left between them, which 
allow of active circulation of air while the armature is in 
motion. 

The principal diflference from the Gramme machine is in 
its having four magnetic fields. Four current impulses are 
hence produced, which require four brushes to take them 
away. By connecting the corresponding brushes together, 
the currents may be united in one circuit. The collector 
and brushes are made very wide, so that much resistance 
and the formation of sparks are avoided. It is the object 
of the inventor to produce currents of intensity of little 
tension. Therefore he has made the internal resistance of 
his machine quite small— it generally does not exceed 0.1 te 
0.2 ohm. The electro-magnets have their coils in multiple 
arc, and the armature has but few convolutions of heavy 
wire. 

The machine produces currents of 66 volts tension, and 
from 20 to 240 amperes intensity, according to *size. 

[Granmae in his U. S. patent, No. 120,057, October, 1871, 
shows and describes machines having two, four, and six 
field-magnet poles.— K.] 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



303 



G4rm Sieiiieiis-Ha.lske IMia.g'iieto a.iid 
I>;^iiaiiio-Electi?lc Cylinder ]M[a.cliiiie. 
System V. Hefner- A^lteneck. In the Gramme 
machineSy the iron ring with its wire bobbins is the main 
constituent. In the magneto and dynamo-electric induc- 

Fie. 180. 




Tkt Rotating Drum Armature. 

tion machines, designed by Frederick v. Hefner-Alteneck^ 
the Superintendent of the Construction Bureau of the 
establishment of Siemens & Halske, in Berlin, in March^ 
1872, the ring was replaced by a drum which is encircled 
with wire. They may be provided with steel magnets, if 



Pig. 181. 




Diagram o/tht He/ntr-Alteiuck Drum., 

working in the small way, and moved by hand through a 
crank ; or they may be in larger machines provided with 
strong electro-magnets, and be constructed according to the 
dynamo-electric principle. The frames and arrangements 
of the drum differ with the different machines, especially 
as to the number of parts into which the winding is divided. 
For easy comprehension, like parts are represented by like 



304 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



letters in the following illustrations. Fig. 180 represents a 
cylindrical armature of the simplest kind. N W represent 
a nimiber of stationary strong north poles ; S S' as many 
south poles. Upon the axis C C is a solid cylinder of iron. 
A thin metal drum is securely fastened to the axis and is 
rotated thereby. 

This drum is wound with coils of insulated copper wire 
parallel to the axis. The stationary exterior magnet poles. 
N N' and S S' act by magnetic influence upon the interior 

Fio. 188. 




TAe Collector Disk. 



iron cylinder, and magnetize it by induction, so that the^ 
space between the magnet poles and the cylinder is formed 
into an intense magnetic field. The wires wound, accord- 
ing to diagram, Fig. 181, upon the drum cross, during rota- 
tion, the lines of magnetic force passing through the 
magnetic field. The polar surfaces N W and S S' shown in 
the figure in vertical section, are bowed so as to embrace 
about two-thirds of the circumference of the armature. 
The currents induced in the wire convolutions on one side 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



305 



of the drum, pass through coils upon the opposite side, 
These currents attain their maximum force in the convolu- 
tions which are at the moment at the neutral line between 
the poles ; and the brushes are so located that they bear 
upon the collector bars at that line, as in the Qramme ma- 
chine. 

The collector is illustrated in Fig. 180, and by diagram in 
Fig. 182. In these two figures, N and S represent the north 
and south poles respectively. The armature illustrated in 
Figs. 180, 182, and 183 have eight separate coils, and this 
arrangement is selected for ease of description, though 
many more sets of coils may be used, the principle remain- 
ing the same. 

The ends e 6, Fig. 183, of each of the eight wire coils 
form altogether sixteen ends, and these are led to the col- 
lector disk in pairs in a peculiar manner, to eight metallic 
sectors, a to A, Fig. 182. These sectors are insulated from 
each other. In each of these illustrations, the wire ends 

Fio.188. 




Diagram showing the Collector Connections, 



which have the same indicating figures belong to the same 
set of coils ; therefore, we may see that 1 is the beginning 
of the first wire coil, and 1' is the end of the same. This 
continues through 2 and 2', to 8 and 8'. The signs + and 



306 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



Fxe. 184. 



— represent the direction of the current in each set of coils 
when separately considered. The arrow at N shows the 
direction of rotation. 

The currents induced in these coils, wound in this way 
upon the exterior of the cylinder or drum, are the result of 
the inductive action, the manner of which we have so fully 
considered in the case of the Gramme machine. The dia- 
gram. Fig. 183, shows very plainly the connections made to 
the collector sectors. The convolutions made by Hefner- 

Alteneck have the disadvantage of 
not being symmetrical, and conse- 
quently are difficult to wind. The 
more serious result (sparks at the 
collector) is due to the consequent 
absence of electrical equilibrium of 
opposite sides of the armature, and 
improper connections of the bob- 
bins with the segments of the col- 
lector. The machines now made 
have their armatures woimd after 
another plan, which was invented 
by Frolich and shown in Fig. 184. The Connections of the 
bobbins with the segments of the collector is symmetrical, 
and the serious defects have been thus overcome. 



«A — 74^v — -^ 



Winding and ColUetcr Contuctions 
invented by Frdlick. 



G^. The SiemeiiH-Ha.lsls:e IMagneto- 
Electric IMacliine lor Small "Work. 
System of* Hefner- Alteneck: fox* ]Lial>o- 
ratory PnrpoHes. We have mentioned in Sec- 
tion 37 advantages that hand-power machines have for use 
in physical laboratories and for lecture purposes. Siemens 
& Halske make machines of this class in two ways— one 
with a crank and cog-wheels, for man power, and the other 
with a pulley, for a belt. 

Figs. 186 and 186 represent in front and end elevations 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT KACHINBS. 



307 



mmmmm 



Fio. 186. 

id 



;rf M 



, . ^uiinrngiirfoiiTii 

rfTTtfiWiTmTirl 






HEM nVI li) 



'"•" : Hia 



Siemtnt-Haitkit Machine for Hand Power, 
Fio. 186. 




SiemenfHaltkie Machine far Hand Power. 



308 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the machine for hand power. Fig. 187 represents in per- 
spective the one for mechanical power. The inducing mag- 
nets are fifty in number, of V shape, represented by M M. 



Fio. 187. 




SiemenS'Halske^s Machinf for Mechanical Power. 

These magnets are placed vertically in twenty-five pairs, 
but in such a way that no pair touches its neighboring pair ; 
their north poles are all upon one side of the armature, and 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES 



309 



the south poles upon the other. By this arrangement the 
fifty north poles and the fifty south poles unite to form two 
aggregated poles. Soft iron shoes, or pole-pieces, are fas- 
tened at the poles of the permanent magnets, so that each 
encloses one-third of the armature. 

In Figs. 185, 186, and 187, the space between the polar- 
pieces N N' and S S' is taken up by the wire-covered drum- 

FiG. 188. 




Siemens- HaUkis Machine for Two Men, 



armature H J. Its axis C C runs in the journal-boxes FiF,, 
and can be set into rapid rotation by means of the crank Q 
and the cog-wheels Qj and Qg, or by the belt and pulley Q. 
On the end opposite the crank is located the collector pp\ 
Upon this collector a pair of insulated metallic brushes R R' 
press like springs, to take up the currents induced in the 



310 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



wire coils of the drum armature, and lead them out through 
the clamps 2 and 3 (Fig, 187) and the wires L L'. 

In speaking of the production of the current in the pre- 
ceding paragraph, we have kept the magnetizing influence 
of the currents induced in the wire coils out of consid- 
eration. 

These currents are of such a kind that they, by them- 
selves alone, create two magnetic poles at opposite points 
of a diameter of the cylinder, and thereby cause a displace- 

Fio. 189. 




SiemtKS'Halske^s Metchint for Two or Four Men, 



ment of the poles induced in the cylinder by the exterior 
stationary magnets. If, therefore, the machine is required 
to deliver currents of the greatest possible strength, the 
connecting line of the two brushes must not be horizontal, 
but somewhat inclined therefrom. For this reason, their 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 311 

brushes are not made stationary, but fastened to a yoke AB, 
which can be moved through a considerable arc of a circle. 
In this way the brushes may be caused to bear upon the 
collector at the points of greatest efficiency, during the 
rotation of the armature. This inclination of the brushes 
from the horizontal must be changed with the direction of 
rotation of the armature. Siemens & Halske also make a 
machine with crank, fly-wheels, strap and pulleys, to be 
put in motion by two men. See Figs. 188 and 189. 

These machines act as in the cases of the previously 
described ones. 

A machine of this kind has a length of about ^ centi- 
metres (not coimting the wheel and length of cranks), a 
height of 46 centimetres, and a width of 23^^ centimetres. 
It has a resistance of only 0.5 Siemens^ unit, and is equal to 
8 Bunsen cells in series. On account of the small resist- 
ance, it delivers a much greater quantity of electricity than 
8 Bunsen cells of ordinary construction. If turned by a 
strong man at the speed of two revolutions for the crank 
per second, a platinum wire 30 centimetres long and ^ mil- 
limetre thick, is easily brought to incandescence. Large 
Ruhmkoff coils, as well as electro-magnetic machines of all 
kinds, are kept in regular working by the current of the 
machine. For general uses in physical laboratories and in 
public lectures, this machine is very convenient, always 
serviceable, a strong source of electricity, and is a substi- 
tute in most cases for galvanic batteries. If the armature 
be rotated by two to four men at the fly-wheel, enough cur- 
rent is generated for a light in a small lamp. 

OO. Siemens - Ha^Iske I>yiia.iiio - elec- 
tric IMEAcliine for "Working* in tlie Large 
"Way. System of Hefner-^lteneck foi* 
£:iectric Illumination and Gral\^anic I>e- 
position. We have previously mentioned that currents 



312 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



which are generated in metallic masses, when moved in a 
magnetic field, are converted into heat if not carried away. 
(Foucault Currents.) In the previously described magneto- 
electric machines these currents are not to be avoided ; 
they can only be decreased by making the cores of iron- 
wire in place of massive iron. This difficulty is especially 
noticeable in the large dynamo-electric machines, and no 
equivalent useful effect is gained. This fact compelled the 
inventor, in machines made for electric illumination, to 
fasten the iron core of the armature so as not to rotate it, 
rotating then only the wire coils in the magnetic field be- 
tween the stationary magnetic poles and the iron cylinder. 



Fig. 190. 




Diagram of ike Electric Circuits of the Dynamo^lectric Machines of Siemens' Halske, 

The construction of such a machine is more complicated, 
owing to the small space between the poles and the drum. 
Figures 190, 191 and 192 show the details of such a machine. 
Figure 190 shows in diagram the course of the circuits ; 
figure 191 longitudinal, perpendicular section ; and figure 
192 an end elevation of the machine, a & o d is a drum of 
German silver plate, upon the outside of which is woimd 
the coils in a series of eight, as described in section 64. 
Upon each end of the drum a tube is fixed. Both tubes 
form the axis of the drum, and lie in the journal boxes Fi 
and Fg. Through these tubes an iron rod C C is passed and 
fastened to the standards D^ and Dg. The iron core n^ n. 



CONTINUOUS CURBBNT MACHINES. 



313 



s s^y is fastened to this rod. The poles of the stationary 
magnet enclose each about one-third of the circumference, 
as in the case of the other machines. The pole faces are 
concentric with the armature and are as near to it as pos- 
sible. 

The stationary electro-magnets obtain their currents 
from the armature, as has been explained in the other ma- 
chines which depend upon the dynamo-electric principle. 
The poles are what are called consequent poles, common 
to both magnets. 

The armature is enclosed two-thirds of its circumference 
and its entire length by the stationary exterior magnets, so 
that it rotates in a very strong magnetic field. The cur- 

Fio. 191. 




Siemens-HaUke' s Large DynamO'EUctric Machine. 
( The Drum A rmature.) 



rents are taken off from the collector by brushes, as in the 
Gramme machine. For the working of such a strong ma- 
chine, steam power, or any other motor of uniform speed 
and power, is necessary. When the circuit is open, only 
so much power is necessary for rotating the drum as will 
overcome the friction of the journals. If the circuit be 
closed, however, for example, by putting an electric light in 
it, induction currents immediately arise in the coils of the 
armature on rotating it, due to the trace of magnetism in 
the stationary magnets. These currents further strengthen 
14 



314 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the electro-magnets, which in turn induce stronger cur- 
rents in the armature, and so on, until the maYimnm of 
power and current is employed. This is only limited by the 
speed of rotation. The quantity of electricity and the 
power expended in its production increases rapidly, because 
each addition of magnetism brings with it a corresponding 
strengthening of the current. On this account, that is to 
say, because the rise and fall of current is so rapid, and 
due at the same time to rise and fall of motion, dynamo- 
electric light machines must be provided with reliably 
regulated motors, either steam or water, so as to insure uni- 
formity of working. 

Fio. 198. 




SiimenfMaUke^t Largt Dynamo' Electric Mackiiu, 

It may also happen in the use of such a machine for 
electric lighting, that by some cause the light arc may be 
suddenly extinguished, and the current thus interrupted. 
In this case the consumption of power is equally inter- 
rupted, and unless the steam-engine has a reliable governor 
its speed of rotation may become dangerously great. In 
order to avoid this danger, Siemens & Halske have con- 
nected with this machine an automatic arrangement by 
the action of which an artificial resistance is thrown into 
the circuit when from any cause the normally existing one 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



315 



has been interrupted. The arrangement and manner of 
interposing such a resistance is shown and described in that 
connection in VoL II. 

The machine represented in Figs. 191 and 192 has a 
length of 110^ centimetres, a height of 32 centimetres, and 
a width of 46J centimetres. At a speed of 450 rotations of 
the armature per minute it gives a current which supports 
an electric light of 14000 normal candles, at an expenditure 
of six horse-power. The current is capable of making red- 
hot a copper wire of one millimetre thickness and 12 metres 
length. 

The machines of medium and smaller sizes, on accoimt 
of simplicity of construction, are built exclusively with the 
iron cylinder core rotatable with the coils. 



Fig. i«^ 




SiemeiuHalsk* Dynamo- EUctric Machine, HortMomtal Model. 



Pig. 193 shows the Stemens-Halske dynamo-electric light 
machine (system v. Hefner-Alteneck) of another construc- 
tion. The electro-magnets have the plate-form, as in the 
machines of Wilde, Fig. 72. Metallic brushes are used 



316 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



to take the currents from the collector. A larger number 
of coils, or bobbins, are woimd upon the drum than in the 
previously considered machines. The construction of the 
collectors are the same as with the later forms of the 
Gramme machine. 

The smallest size of these machines is 698 millimetres 
long, 572 millimetres wide, and 233 millimetres high. The 
drum is 388 millimetres long, and contains 28 sets of wire 

Fig. 194. 




Sitmtns-HaUkt Machine. Vertical MoeUL 



coils or bobbins, and a collector of 56 sectors. The weight 
is 115 kilogrammes. The maximum speed of rotation is 900 
per minute, and the strength of light produced is 1400 nor- 
mal candles, with an expenditure of \\ horse power. 

The middle size does not differ much in its construction 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



317 



from the one just described. It is 767 millimetres long, 700 
millimetres wide, and 284 millimetres high. The drum is 
466 millimetres long, and is wound with 28 sets of coils or 
bobbins. The collector also consists of 66 sectors, against 
which the wire brushes press like springs on the parts 
which, in rotation, cross the line of neutrality between the 
poles. The machine weighs 200 kilogrammes, and with a 
maximum rotation of 700 per minute gives a light of 4000 
normal candles, at an expenditure of 3^ horse-power. Figs, 
194 and 196 show two vertical models of the same machine. 



Fio. 196. 




Siemtns ^ Halskt Machine. Vrrtical Model with DoubU BrutfUs. 



Two Siemens machines of medium size were submitted 
to comparative tests at the time of like tests of Oramme 
machines by the Boyal English Commission at Chatham. 
(See p. 266.) 



318 DYNAHO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

The following is a summary of the report of the Com- 
mission : 

'^ Two mediimi-sized Siemens machines placed in series. 

'^ Advantages : 

" 1. By using one generator, two lights can be produced. 

" 2. The strength of the light produced is much greater 
than with the other machines which were tested, excepting 
Gramme D and C. 

" Disadvantages : 

** 1. The easy heating of the wires when the attendant is 
not well acquainted with the use of the generator. Another 
disadvantage is that the armature becomes hotter than does 
the field magnets. 

"2. When the generators are connected in parallel, a 
reversion of magnetism easily takes place, thereby causing 
greater interruptions and loss of time. 

" 3. An irregular operation of the lamp causes the for- 
mation of strong sparks at the brushes, and, therefore, a 
more rapid wearing away of the collector and brushes. 

"For these reasons, greater experience is necessary to 
make these machines work satisfactorily than is necessary 
with the Granune machines." (See p. 266.) 

Cy. T>yiiamo - Electric !M!a.cliine for 
tlie ItLeiiiiing- And I^rLrifyiiig- of IVEeta^l^, 
toy Siemens & Ha^lske. (Fig. 197.) It embodies 
the same principle as that we have just described, only the 
number, size and manner of making the convolutions is 
entirely different. From previous remarks it follows that 
proportionately few, but very heavy convolutions are 
necessary. These are made of thick copper bars, of rectan- 
gular section. For instance, the cross section of each con- 
volution on the electro-magnet is equal to 13 square centi- 
metres. The cores have only 7 convolutions in each set, 
and the armature is covered only with one layer, and the 



CONTINUOUS CUKRENT MACHINES. 



319 



cross connections are made of peculiarly constructed copper 
pieces of correspondingly large section. The connections 
with the sectors of the collector are mside of strong copper 
angles. The insulations between the several conTolutions 







I 



41 






I 



are made of asbestos^ which is incombustible. The capacity 
of the machine can hence be made so high that even the 
thick circuit parts may become very hot without endanger- 
ing the machine. Three of these machines are now in con- 
tinuous use in the Royal Smelting Works, at Oker, in 
Hartz. Each of them gives daily five to six hundred- 



DrNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

Fio. 197. 




Mack int/ar Rtfining MtUUt, SUmeu* 6* HaUkt?*, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



321 



weight of copper, by the expenditure of eight to 10 horse- 
power. 

Siemens & Halske also furnish smaller machines of this 
kind, which are intended for use in electrotyping and elec- 
troplating. They are correspondingly wound, so as to 
provide for the varying requirements of the art. 

[Mr. Edison has made for The Electro Metal Refining Co. 
one of his Z size of dynamos, for use in Keith's process for 
refining and desilverizing lead ; it supplies a current of 760 
amperes, of 6 volts tension. 

Pio. 198. 




WutotCs Light Mackint, Old Model, 



Mr. Hochhausen has made a number of dynamos, giving 
3 to 4 volts and 3000 amperes, for electro-deposition of cop- 
per.— K.] 



OS. The AVeston Liig-lit IVEa^cliiiies made 
hy H. G. Mohring, of Frankfort-on-Main, have come into 
use of late, and though they somewhat resemble some 
other machines, must be considered as original apparatus. 
In the old model Weston employed cast and wrought iron 
in the manufacture of the electro-magnets. The curved 



32^2 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



pole faces (N N' and S S', Fig. 192) were made of wrought 
iron, while the cores within the coils were made of cast 
iron. (See Fig. 198.) 

In making these stationary electro-magnets the wrought 
iron poles were made up of bars which were placed at small 
distances apart in the mould into which iron was cast to 
form the cores. The ends of the machine were all cast iron, 
with slots at intervals. The armature was made up of 



Fio. 199. 




Wuton-Mokring Meukint. 

disks having the form of the cross-section of the armature- 
core, and were separated so as to allow the circulation 
of air between them. This arrangement, combined with 
the slots of the ends and the spaces between the bars of tho 
poles, insured good ventilation, which precluded any exces- 
sive heating of the parts. 

These features are still better provided for in the new 
model (Fig. 199), which will be seen to have a slight resem- 
blance, in the arrangement of the electro-magnets, to the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



323 



Oramme machine illustrated in Fig. 136. There are six 
cores to each electro-magnet, so combined as to form con- 
sequent poles, one above, and the other, of opposite name, 
below the armature. The coils of the magnets are arranged 
in an uninterrupted series, and are traversed by the entire 
current produced by the armature, so keeping up a strong 
magnetic field in which the armature moves with a velocity 
of about 900 rotations per minute. 

Fio. 9G0. 




TAt Hew IVftton Mackitu. 

Those portions of the pole pieces which enclose the arma- 
ture are not of one piece, as in the Gramme machine, but, 
instead, consist of a number of tongues which in most of 
the machines vary in size and length, and are so arranged 
that their ends form an elliptical space on each side of the 
armature. 

Weston asserts that by this arrangement a greater unir 
f ormity of current is produced, because the inductive action 
of the magnets upon the coils of the armature is not simul- 
taneous in all parts of the bobbins, but from the centre to 
the ends of the tongues, and vice versa^ decreases and in- 
creases in quantity. This reminds us of Trouve's innova- 



324 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



tion. He endeavored to improve the Siemens armature by 
arranging the wires out of the parallel position to the axis^ 
somewhat in the form of a spiral. 

Pio. 801. 





Collector, Old Modtl. 



Weston's A rmature. Old Model. 

In the pole-pieces the slots which divide the poles into 

tongues serve a double 
purpose : — They prevent 
Foucault currents in the 
pole-pieces, serve to im- 
prove the ventilation of the 
armature and magnet-field, 
and thus guard against 
overheating. 

The armature (Fig. 201) of WestorCs Machine has a very 
peculiar form, although when wound and in place it resem- 
bles that of Siemens. It differs widely from that in the 
construction of the iron core. The core of the armature is 
composed of a number of disks which are stamped out of 
very thin sheet-iron, so that the change of polarity in them 
may take place very rapidly. Each of these sheet-iron 
pieces has somewhat the likeness of a spoked wheel, which 
has on its circumference 16 protruding teeth and as many 
depressions. The core is formed by placing 36 of theso 
disks on the shaft ; separated from each other, however, 
by small washers, so that air spaces are left between them. 
As the disks are so fixed that the toothlike elevations form 
straight lines, the whole resembles a cylinder which is pro- 
vided longitudinally with grooves having parallel walls, and 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



326 



equally distant from each other. The core so formed is 
finally finished by hemispherical end-pieces, the edges of 
which just touch the bottom of the grooves. Into these 
grooves, 16 in number, the insulated wires are laid. The 
coils are wound similarly to the Siemens armature, i. e., the 
wire, is laid through the groove, thence around the shaft, 
and returns through the diametrically opposite groove. 
At the same time the peculiar construction of the core of 
the armature and of both end-pieces permits the circula- 
tion of air for cooling between the bobbins of wire. In the 
SiemenS'Halske machines a slight heating of the wire of 



Fm. 908. 




TA4 Core of ikt Ntw Wtttim Armature, 



the armature takes place, but in the Weston-Mohring ma- 
chine this is almost entirely avoided on account of the good 
ventilation. The armature is not only hollow, but also has 
channels numbering 676, through which the air can circu- 
late from the interior, as it enters from openings in the 
hemispherical end-pieces. The reliability and eflSciency of 
the machine must, therefore, be excellent, as only very 
little electric energy is transformed into heat which would 
otherwise be lost for generating light, and because the 
wires cannot be destroyed by overheating the insulating 
covering. It may also be remarked that the Weston ma- 
chine feeds 10 Weston lamps, but with a current of low 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

tension, which also tends to prevent overheating. This 
absence of excessive tension make the machine safer to 
run, as the current is less dangerous to life. 

The collector (Figs. 198, 199, and 201a) is similar in prin- 
ciple to those of the Siemens and Qramme machines, only 
differing in construction. Each segment is fastened upon 
the axis in a spiral form, and all of them are separated from 
one another by air spaces instead of solid insulating mate- 
rial. The spiral arrangement is for the purpose of insuring 
the touching of two segments by each of the brushes at all 
times in every situation of the armature during rotation, 
thus insuring a greater uniformity of current. The brushes 
are placed diametrically opposite, and consist of ten or 
twelve flexible copper plates superimposed. These have 
such a position relative to the collector that all the ends of 
the entire bundle press upon the rotating parts of the col- 
lector. 

The brush-holders, as may be seen in Fig. 203, are fas- 
tened upon £t rotatable yoke, so that by altering their posi- 
tion circumf erentially the strength of the current may be 
manually increased or decreased, as desired. The spiral 
arrangement of the copper segments of the collector is for 
the purpose of insuring the contact of each brush with two 
of the segments at all times. Greater imiformity in the 
current is supposed to be thus obtained, but it must be at 
the expense of its intensity. In the later machines this 
arrangement has been abandoned, as Fig. 203 shows. The 
edges of segments of the collector are there arranged par- 
allel with the shaft. 

In order to prevent, as much as possible, sparks from 
breaking of the circuit at the collector, as many as 140 seg- 
ments have been provided. And for the same object, the 
winding of the armature is made after a peculiar plan. 

Fig. 206 is a diagram of one system of winding the arma- 
ture and connecting the bobbins with the collector. The 



828 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Fis. 801 




End Virw of Weston^ s New Machine. 



plan is for eight divisions only, but the same system can be 
carried out with any larger number. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



329 



Beginning at the point a, the wire follows the dark line, 
and at the point where the wire leaves one division for 
another, a loop is made connecting with a corresponding 



Fie. S06. 




Armaturt and Collector of the New Weston Mttckine. 

segment of the collector, as in Fig. 205. After eight 
divisions have each been in this manner provided with one- 
half the necessary convolutions in succession, but four con- 
necting loops will have been formed. 




Diagram o/the Winding o/tJu Weston Armature, 

Then the divisions are filled with a second set of convo- 
lutions, forming loops in the same manner, which are 
connected with the intermediate segments of the collector. 
The two sets of convolutions are united at a and &. 



330 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

If we assume that the brushes touch the collector seg- 
ments, which are connected with the loops m m, the direc- 
tion of the current is shown by the arrows and arrow-heads. 
It will be noticed that the two neighboring wires, denoted 
by the dotted and continuous lines, respectively, have cur- 
rents in them of opposite directions. This is so because one 
of the lines is always in advance of the other in the plane 
of rotation. If the armature be covered with the first set of 
convolutions, and the second set be placed over the first, 
they lie as shown in section in Fig. 207, which gives the 
two sets in white and black respectively. 

FI6.907. 




StctMM through Armaturty showing One Mtihodof Winding. 

By this method the upper set is longer, is moved nearer 
the poles of the field magnets, and has greater speed of 
movement. Therefore, the two sets are of unequal electri- 
cal value, and yield intense sparks at the collector. In 
order to avoid this defect, the divisions are wound accord- 
ing to Fig. 208, whereby complete electrical symmetry is 
obtained. The winding is often made after diagram, Fig. 
209, because it is more easily made. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 881 

Fici. 906. 




Stctum through Armature^ Second Manntr 0/ Winding, 

The arrangement of the collector connections for ma> 
chines of high tension is shown in Fig. 210. The armature 
has two entirely distinct and separate sets of convolutions^ 



Fie. 200. 




SicHon through Armaturo^ Third Plan of Winding. 



333 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



distinguished in the figure by black and white lines alter- 
nately arranged. The sectors are connected alternately 
with the black and white sets of convolutions. It is in this 
way made impossible that the convolutions can become 
short-circuited and so injured, or that two adjacent sectors 
can become connected accidentally. The collector can be 
easily removed and replaced under the mode of fastening 
shown. The two brushes are placed diametrically opposite, 
and consist of 10 or 12 copper ribbons superimposed, and 




CdUcUrtr of Wt*t0H Machim, 



divided into three tongues by two incisions. They are 
placed at such an angle that all the ends of the ribbons 
composing the brushes bear upon the collector passing 
under them. 

According to '^ Electrician" the large machine can supply 
current for 20 lamps at 900 rotations per minute. It absorbs 
14 horse-power, and produces a current of 18 amperes. The 
field electro-magnets are not in the main circuit, but in a 
derived circuit. The field magnet circuit uses from 3 to 6 
per cent, of the entire current from the armature. 

Fig. 211 shows a plan of moimting one of these machines 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



333 



on a wooden stand. The machine can be moved by the 
hand-screw while running so as to tighten the belt. 




Mounting of West0n Machtnt. 



[Figs. 203 and 204 are side and end views of the Weston 
Dynamo Machine, of this more recent type. They illustrate 
a machine for supplying 60 arc lights. All the various 
sizes have the same general appearance and construction, 
except that in the smaller machines the side-braces of the 
pulley-bearing, shown at the right in Fig. 204, are omitted. 



334 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

While the Weston machine of the present type resembles 
in general construction the machine shown at the Paris 
Exposition in 1881^ modifications have been made both in 
mechanical construction and electrical design. The frame 
has been considerably modified. The supports for the 
armature bearings are cast in one piece with the pole-pieces 
of the field magnets, which simplifies the construction and 
secures greater strength. At the commutator end, the 
armature-bearing is supported only from below, so as to 
leave the commutator open and readily accessible ; but at 
the pulley end, where greater strength is required, the 
bearing is supported by projections from both pole-pieces, 
uniting in the form of an arch. To prevent a closed mag- 
netic circuit between these projections, a wide bushing of 
brass is interposed, which carries the box for the shaft ; 
and in the larger machines the bearing is braced by rods, 
shown in Fig. 204. The frame consists of four pieces : the 
two end-plates, and the upper and lower field-magnet bars. 
The frame is bolted together before the pole-pieces are 
bored out to form the armature space. The armature-box 
bearings and the internal surfaces of the pole-pieces are 
bored out at one operation, so that they are concentric. 

Figs. 202 and 206 show the construction of the armature. 
The sectional form of armature is retained, but somewhat 
modified, the grooves being much shallower than in the 
previous one, so as to bring the wire of the bobbins much 
nearer the pole-faces of the field magnets. 

The sectional form of armature is the most important 
characteristic of the Weston machine. It is built up of a 
series of disks of the form shown at the left in Fig. 202. 
These are placed close together upon a shaft, but separated 
from each other by washers of insulating material about 
the thickness of the iron plates. The end pieces of the 
armature are made thicker, and have their outside surfaces 
curved, so as to prevent sharp bends in the wire of the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 335 

armature coils where it crosses the ends. There are tubu- 
lar openings through the armature core from end to end, 
connecting all the spaces between the plates. At each end 
of the core is a flange surrounding the shaft, and separating 
the coils where they cross each other at the end of the arma- 
ture, so as to leave an air-passage about the shaft. The 
polar projections extend out between the coils, so that the 
openings between the disks are left uncovered at these 
points. The disks are of such form that when combined 
with the shaft they form a nearly continuous path of mag- 
netic material between the two poles of the field, and the 
insulation of the disks from each other effectually prevents 
Foucault currents. 

The openings in the ends and in the periphery allow it 
to act, when rotated, as a centrifugal blower, to maintain a 
rapid circulation of air through all its parts. This prevents 
undue rise in temperature of the armature conductors and 
the increase of resistance due to heating. 

All these machines, both for supplying arc lights and 
incandescent lights, are shunt-wound ; that is, they have 
the field coils in a derived circuit. The resistances of the 
field coils vary in the different sizes of machines, from 
twenty-five to sixty times the normal resistances of their 
external circuits, so that only from 1| to 4 per cent, of the 
entire current is used for exciting the field. A very intense 
field is obtained by using a considerable mass of iron in the 
cores and pole-pieces of the field magnets and making the 
convolutions of the field coils very numerous. In this way 
the requisite electromotive force is developed with compara- 
tively few convolutions of wire on the armature, and its 
resistance is quite small. The ratio of the resistance of the 
armature to the normal resistance of the working circuit 
varies from 1 to 40 and from 1 to 110 in different machines, 
so the loss of energy in the armature varies from less than 
1 to 2| per cent. Exciting the field through a derived circuit 



336 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

instead of through the main circuit is not only more eco- 
nomical in energy, but affords much greater facility of reg- 
ulation. 

In the system of incandescent lighting, in order to se- 
cure automatic regulation, it is only necessary to preserve 
the constancy of electromotive force or tension. As the 
lamps are arranged in multiple arc between the main con- 
ductors the resistance varies inversely as the number of 
lamps in circuit, so with constant electromotive force the 
current strength varies inversely as the resistance ; conse- 
quently the current strength varies directly as the number 
of lamps, and a machine of constant electromotive force is 
self -regulating. In a theoretically perfect machine, with 
field magnets of constant strength and uniform speed of 
rotation of the armature, the electromotive force will be 
constant and independent of variations in the resistance of 
the external circuit ; but as a matter of fact, this is not 
obtained, because any considerable variation in the number 
of lamps in circuit produces a decided fluctuation in the elec- 
tromotive force of the current. This is probably due mainly 
to the fact that when the machine is in operation, the polar 
line of the armature does not coincide precisely with the 
polar line of the field in machines as they are ordinarily 
constructed. This is shown by the well-known fact that 
the brushes have to be given a greater or less lead in order 
to bring them to the maximum points on the commutator, 
and the lead of the brushes varies with the strength of cur- 
rent generated by a given machine. The polar line of the 
armature is in fact determined by two forces, the induction 
of the field and the magnetizing effect of the armature coils, 
tending to produce poles in the armature at right angles to 
the poles induced by the field, and the actual polar line of 
the armature takes a resultant position, dependent upon the 
relative strength of the two forces. 

In the Weston machine the field is made so strong, the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 337 

armature is so constructed and located with reference to 
the field, and the armature coils are so arranged, that their 
magnetizing effect on the armature core is hardly apprecia- 
ble in comparison with the inductive effect of the field 
poles. 

The core of the Weston armature is so constructed as to 
form a direct and almost entirely closed path of magnetic 
material between the field magnet poles, so that the arma- 
ture acts as a true keeper for the magnetic system of the 
field. The polar projections of the armature serve a useful 
purpose in this, as they bring part of the iron core into 
almost direct contact with the faces of the field magnets. 
The continuity of the iron is also important, as the lines of 
force of the field are concentrated on the armature core, so 
that the inductive effect of the field upon the armature is 
intensified. Only a single layer of wire is wound on the 
armature, so that the armature coils being brought almost 
directly into contact with the field magnets and moving in 
an extremely intense field, the requisite electromotive force 
is developed with comparatively few convolutions, and the 
magnetizing effect of the armature coils upon the core is 
greatly reduced. The number of convolutions in the arma- 
ture coils being few, large conductors may be used, and the 
resistance of the armature diminished. This is also impor- 
tant for the purpose of securing constant electromotive 
force, as if the internal resistance of the machine formed 
any considerable part of the entire resistance of the circuit, 
variations in the external resistance would materially dis- 
turb the ratio of external to internal resistance, and even 
with constant electromotive force the flow of current in the 
external circuit would not be exactly proportional to the 
external resistance. 

Foucault currents generated in the armature core greatly 
disturb constancy of electromotive force, but these are 
effectually broken up and eliminated from the Weston 
15 



838 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

machine by the peculiar sectional construction of the core. 
With a machine constructed in this way, there is no lead to 
the commutator brushes. There is no sensible variation 
between the theoretical mazimxmi points on the collector 
and the actual maximum points ; or, in other words, the 
polar line of the armature coincides with the polar line of 
the field. With the field excited either from a separate 
source or by a circuit derived from the binding-posts of the 
machine, the working resistance, or, in other words, the 
number of lamps in circuit, may be varied within very 
wide limits, without sensible variation in the electromotive 
force of the current. For instance, with a machine for 
running one hundred incandescent lights, if ninety-nine be 
instantly cut out, the variation in electromotive force does 
not exceed four or five per cent., and this produces hardly 
a perceptible variation in the light given by the remaining 
lamp. Within. its working limits, the machine is entirely 
automatic in its regulation, without requiring the use of 
any special regulating mechanism, and as the regulation 
depends upon the law of operation of the machine itself, 
much more reliable and accurate results are secured than 
can be obtained by the use of any mechanism which acts 
to correct variations after they have occurred. 

In the arc system the problem of regulation is somewhat 
different, as, with lamps in series, the current strength has 
to be maintained constant and the electromotive force is 
varied. In this system the shunt-wound machine is to 
some extent self -regulating, as the distribution of current 
between the main circuit and the field circuit varies with va- 
riations of resistance in the main circuit. As, for instance, 
cutting lamps out of circuit and thereby reducing the re- 
sistance of the main circuit reduces the strength of field, 
because less of the current generated is diverted through 
the field coils ; but the regulation so produced is not perfect. 
Therefore, when these machines are used to supply arc- 



CONTINnjOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



339 



lights, an automatic regulator is used for changing the 
resistance of the field circuit. This regulator and system 
we will treat of in Vol. II. 



Fie.SUL 




Wuion't Two Hundrtd Incandttcent Light Machine. 

More recently, Mr. Weston has produced a two hundred 
incandescence light machine, based upon the principles 
just described, but varied somewhat in its mechanical 



340 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACH'INBS. 

details and mode of winding the armature. Fig. 212 is a 
side view of the field magnet and a section of the armature 
within the magnet-poles. A is the wooden base upon which 
the standards B B are fastened. The electro-magnet coils 
C C C C are in a circuit derived at the brushes of the ma- 
chine^ and are of very high resistance compared to the cir- 

Fie. us. 








'^' 









1 



\ * 



*>^i 



'•WO»«j I ft V V V 



a4* 



Iff* 

Weston^* Winding, 



cult of the armature. D D are the consequent poles of the 
machine, E' is the shaft, and E one of the iron disks which 
constitute the cylindrical core of the armature. 

The plan of the winding of the armature is shown dia- 
grammatically by Fig. 213. This is for fifty-six collector 
segments. Beginning at any given point, as at a, the first 
convolution is formed by winding the conductor around 
the cylinder along diametrically opposite lines, bringing it 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



341 



up to the starting-point, then cutting it off and temporarily 
securing its ends. This conductor is designated by the 
black and white circles, numbered 1 1' respectively, the 
black circle indicating the position of the starting-point, the 
white circle its position on the opposite side of the arma- 
ture. The next convolution, numbered 2, is formed along- 
side the first in exactly the same manner. To form the 
third convolution, the core is turned half-way round and 
the convolution started and ended at a point one hundred 
and eighty degrees from the space next to coil No. 2. The 

Fi«.ai4. 




IVtston Armaturt. 



fourth convolution is woimd alongside the third, and in the 
same manner that the second was wound relatively to the 
first. The core is then turned back and the fifth convolu- 
tion wound as was the first. The sixth then follows, after 
which the core is again turned for the seventh and eighth, 
and so on until the forty-third convolution is wound and 
temporarily secured. Then, instead of winding the forty- 
fourth coil from the same side of the core, it is started and 
ended from the opposite side. The core is then turned and 
the forty-fifth and forty-sixth coils started from the side 



342 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIO MACHINES. 



opposite to the starting-point of coil M. The conyolutions 
are then formed in pairs alternately from opposite sides of 
the core until the fiftieth coil is completed and the core 
turned for winding coil 51. After this is laid, coils 52 ajid 
53 are wound from the opposite side, when the core is again 
turned for each of the remaining coils 54, 55, and 56. Tlie 
recesses being now filled, the several convolutions of con« 
ductor are joined together in the ordinary manner— that is, 
designating the ends of any convolution as the '* first " and 
''last" end, the last end of convolution 1 is joined to tlie 

Pio. 216. 




Diagram of Weston Winding, 



first end of convolution 2, the last of convolution 3 to first 
of 4, and so on around the armature. The numerals in 
Fig. 213 are placed to indicate this system, and by following- 
them the order of winding and connection may be clearly 
seen. The joints or loops, when formed in this way, are 
united to radial arms G, extending from the segments of & 
collector F. It will be observed that the number of coils^ 
loops, and collector-segments is the same. 

Fig. 214 represents the collector end of an armature 
wound as we have described. E' is the shaft, F the pol- 
lector-segments, and G radial bars which connect the wires 
with the collector-segments. Fig. 215 is a diagram showing 
the relative position of the wires when wound as we have 
described. Fig. 216 represents in outline one of the ma- 
chines and a lamp-circuit. It will be observed that the 
main current is taken directly from the brushes to the lamp 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



343 



circuity and that the current to energize the field-magnet 
coils is also taken from the same point. This is according 
to the shunt-dynamo principle. M N represent the positive 
and negative wires, L L L the incandescence lamps, and 
III the branches from the mains M N to the lamps. 







"('"^^ii 



i-<H 



We have seen the circuit of one of these machines sup- 
plying two hundred incandescence lamps broken instantly 
from one hundred and ninety-nine of them without varying 
the light of the remaining one to any considerable degree ; 



344 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



this was done many times within a few minutes, and with 
the same effect each time. It is an almost perfect self- 
regulator. 

The following are the measurements of this machine : 

Weight 3886 pounds. 

Length 62.5 inches. 

Breadth 58.0 ** 

Height. 25.75 ** 

Resistance of External Circuit. 0.4 ohm. 

" •• Armature 0.008** 

"PieldCoils 24.1 " 

Electromotive Force 67 volts. 

No. rotations per minute 960 

Diameter of Wire on Armature 0.24 inch. 

Fio. 817. 




IVestoM Machine, 



Mr. Weston has also invented an armature and con- 
nections which we illustrate by Figs. 217 to 220. This 
armature is calculated to produce currents of low tension, 
but of great intensity. This must be the case from the 
short length of the armature circuit. Fig. 217 is copied 
from Mr. Weston's drawing, and has the singular mistake 
in placing the contacts of the brushes with the collector 
near the line x a;, instead of 90° therefrom. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



345 



Fig. 217 is a view in elevation ; Fig. 218, a sectional 
view on the line xx ot the armature ; Fig. 219, a rear view 
of the armature, showing the connecting piece and con- 
ductors attached thereto, and the shaft in section on the 
line yy of Fig. 218 ; Fig. 220, an end view of the armature 
and section of shaft on line z z ot Fig. 218. 

The machine is mounted on a base A', the field-magnets 
B B secured to a standard or frame. A, and the armature 
D mounted in suitable bearings in position to rotate be- 
tween pole-pieces C. 

Fio. 818. 




Armaiur* tf Wgxion Machint, 



The armature is shown to consist of an insulating-hub, 
L, mounted on a shaft, E. On this hub a number of iron 
rings, F F, are strung and insulated from one another. At 
the rear or pulley end of the armature is fixed a copper 
connecting piecA, H, which is here shown as a circular plate 
with an annulus, through which the shaft E passes. The 
conductors G G are laid longitudinally along the cylin- 
drical core formed by the rings F, and at the rear end are 
connected in any proper manner to the connecting-piece H, 
while these free ends are carried over to the other end of 
the cylinder, as shown in Fig. 217, and connected to insu- 
lated segments of a collector, K. This latter, as shown in 



346 DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

Figs. 217 and 218, consists of an insulating disk, to the face 
of which metal segments are connected, corresponding in 
number to the longitudinal conductors F F. With a collector 
of this description brushes d d are to be employed, which 
press against a number of the segments simultaneously, 
and thus connect the conductors joined there to a multiple 
arc. — K.] 

0&. IMEa^xim's IVJCa^eliiiie of the smaller size, is a 
dynamo-electric current generator which is used solely to 
charge the electro-magnets of larger machines of a similar 
kind. This small machine, in connection with the regu- 



Fio. S19. 

Fro. 990. 





Cross- Section* of A rnuUnrt, 

later, is illustrated by Fig. 221. At the first glance it seems 
to be similar to the charging machine of v, Hefner-Alteneck 
in the position of the electro-magnets, as well as in the 
arrangement of the magnet-field and the shape of the arma- 
ture. (Compare Fig. 194. We can also imagine a large 
machine, as shown in Fig. 193, set on one side, so as to give 
to the electro-magnets a vertical position.) The armature, 
however, has a peculiar construction, and is in effect a 
Gramme ring, whose length exceeds its diameter. The 
bobbins of the Maxim armature differ from the CHramms 
bobbins in the manner of winding. Four wires go to make 
up each of the 16 bobbins, and each wire is connected to a 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 
Fio. S81. 



347 




M«ucim Maehitu and Rtgnla^r, 



segment of the 64 which make up the collector, so that a 
uniform circuit, nowhere interrupted, is obtained. 



348 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

In the light machines a collector is situated on each end 
of the axis of the machine. If we number the bobbins 
consecutively, the bobbins of uneven number are connected 
with the first, and those of even number with the second 
current collector. The two circuits can be coupled at tvHI 
for either quantity or tension, by means of a plug-switcb 
which is attached to the machine. 

We do not say that the Maxim machine should give 
better results than its progenitors, the Oramme or Siemens. 
On the contrary, for the reasons set forth in Division 10 and 
others, the Maxim machine should give poorer results under 
the same conditions. According to our opinion, the merit 
in this machine consists in the regulator, which adjusts the 
strength of current to the work it has to perform. 

This machine was greatly admired at the Paris Expo« 
sition on account of the peculiar manner of automatically 
regulating the intensity of current produced by it. This 
regulator we will describe and consider in the part devoted 
to such apparatus. 

[This machine was, at one time, made by the United 
States Electric Lighting Co. of New York, but has been 
abandoned by them for the Weston machine. — K.] 

TO* The Cdison IMacliiiie illustrates by its 
peculiar shape the originality of its inventor, although it is 
built on the same principle as the machines we have just 
described. Its peculiar form is due to the extraordinary 
size and shape of the field electro-magnets. 

The cores of these magnets are wrought-iron cylinders 
from one to two metres long, are wound with insulated 
copper wire, and are provided with massive pole-pieces of 
cast iron which nearly encircle the armature of the ma- 
chine. The use of these large masses of iron in the con- 
struction of the field-magnets is one of the characteristic 
peculiarities of the Edison Dynamos, and their high 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 349 

efficiency is due in part to this fact. This has been re- 
garded by others as a disadvantage on account of additional 
weight imparted to the machine without proportionate 
increase in the intensity of the magnetic field. The same 
intensity can be obtained with magnets of half the length ; 
but according to Edison's experience this practice is wrong. 
If the mass of iron be reduced, a stronger current, i. e., 
more energy, is required to raise the field to the desired 
intensity, and this additional amount of energy must be 
continually supplied as long as the machine is run. In the 
other case the. additional expense for a cheap material is 
only incurred once. This view seems to be justified by the 
fact that the Edison machines, for efficiency, rank among 
the best. [Recently Mr. Edison has reduced the length of 
the cores of the field magnets of his machines, and has also 
changed the shape of the pole-pieces so as to avoid sharp 
comers and sharp angles, with decided improvement in 
capacity of given weights of materials and in expenses of 
running. Currents fiowing in coils far removed from the 
polar ends of the cores they surround do not have the same 
efficient action upon the poles as do those nearer by ; and 
sharp angles and corners on magnetic masses are unfavor- 
able to a proper equal distribution or concentration of mag- 
netism. See Fig. 231.— K.] 

The form and arrangement of the magnet arms and 
pole-pieces can be seen in Fig. 222. They form a cylindrical 
magnetic field in which the armature is rotated as in the 
Siemens machines. The armature is shown in Fig. 223 and 
is constructed as follows : — A wooden cylinder is fastened 
concentrically on the iron shaft. Upon this cylinder a 
number of disks of soft iron are strung, but are insulated 
from one another by disks of paper placed between them. 
Over the cylinder thus formed insulating paper is wound. 
In the large machines copper bars, arranged parallel and 
longitudinally, are used for the circuit conductors. They 



350 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



have bands of wire wound circumferentially over all to 
keep the bars or conductors in place. The bars are insu- 
lated from one another, and from the wire bands. 



Fio. «». 




Editon Machint 



To connect these bars so as to form the continuous 
closed circuit needed, as many copper disks are put on each 
end of the iron cylinder as there are copper bars. These 
disks are also insulated, and each of them has at diametri- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



351 



cally opposite points on its periphery two lugs for the pur- 
pose of connection with the corresponding bars. 

The disks are placed with their faces parallel to each 
other and radially to the axis, but with the lugs successively 



Fie. 828. 




Artmature t/Eduom MacMm* 

in advance of the preceding ones, so that they lie on a heli- 
cal line, as is shown by the ends of the bars in Fig. 223. In 
that way a continuous closed-circuit is provided. 




The several copper disks are each connected with a sec- 
tor of a collector, resembling in construction that of the 
Gramme machine. The insulating material used by Edison 
between the sectors of the coUector wears away at the same 
rate as the copper sectors; consequently, the collector 



352 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



weaxs truly, without longitudinal furrows, flutes or chan- 
nels, and runs with but few sparks. 

It can now be seen that the armature acts like that of 
Siemens, and it differs from it in being more simple in con- 
struction and winding. The small machines have for a 



FI0.8S5. 




Edison Machine'' K: 



winding well insulated copper wire in place of copper 
bars. 

The diagram, Figure 224, is taken from the draw- 
ing of one of Edison's patents, and shows his system of 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 353 

winding. There are fourteen divisions or seven crossings 
or loops, with the latter number of sectors in the collector. 
The number of sectors of collector in Edison's machines is 
always imeven ; the new large machines have forty-nine. 
Consequently, when the brushes bear on the collector 
diametrically opposite to each other, the sectors do not pass 
simultaneously from under them. While one brush bears 
on the centre of a sector, the opposite brush bears on two 
sectors, and so short circuits the two bobbins connected 
therewith. 

Special care is taken in the construction of the brushes. 
They consist of alternating layers of copper wire and rib- 
bon, and thereby a cushion-like softness of the contact sur- 
faces is attained. The brushes are bevelled at their ends 
so that they fit the cylindrical surface of the collector, but 
at a less angle than a tangent. Brushes presented in such 
manner can be adjusted very accurately. 

The magnetic field of the "K " machine, shown in Fig. 
226, is produced by six electro-magnet limbs arranged in 
three pairs. The brushes are mounted on a yoke, which 
can be moved by a handle so as to place them in exact posi- 
tion on the line of exit of current. There are usually two 
brushes on each side in the smaller machines, and as many 
as six pairs on the large machines. They are pressed 
against the collector by helical springs, the tension of 
which can be regulated. On the front end of the machine, 
at the top, a wooden piece is fastened, and on it are placed 
a switch, and binding-posts to receive the wires of the mag- 
net and external circuits. The switch is moved by the 
handle to open or close the circuit. The whole is mounted 
on three rails, along which the machine can be moved to 
tighten or loosen the belt which drives it. The "K" ma- 
chine weighs 3.3 tons, is run at the speed of 900 rotations 
per minute, absorbs 32 horse-power, and produces a current 
of 110 volts tension and 183 amperes intensity, and is capa- 



354 



DYNAMO -EL EC TRIG MACHINES. 



ble of supplying 260 Edison 16 candle-power incandescent 
lamps. 

Fig. 226 shows a large Edison machine and its attached 
steam-engine. This dynamo is of great historical interest. 



Fig. an. 




Edison MackiMt '' L:' 

as it marks the first decisive step in the advance from 
small to large machines, which are now becoming so com- 
mon. This is rational, as it is only with such machines that 
the utilization of electricity on a large scale becomes possi- 
ble. The magnetic field of this machine is produced by 16 
electro-magnet arms joined to two pole-pieces, and their 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



355 



coils are traversed by a current derived from the main cir- 
cuit. The dimensions of this machine, as it is now con- 
Btructedy are as follows : Resistance of armature circuit is 
0.0037 ohm, and that of the electro-magnet circuit is 6.7 



Fie. S». 




Edison Machiiu '' Z/' 



ohms. The armature has 106 copper, bars, and its core has 
2200 thin sheet-iron disks. 125 horse-power is used in 
driving the armature, which makes 350 rotations per min- 
ute. The current has 110 volts tension and can supply 1200 
Edison lamps of 16 candles illuminating power. The weight 
of the machine is 30 tons. Machines of this kind are used 



356 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



in Ekiison Central Station for electric lighting in New York 
city. 

The various sizes of machines made by Edison at present 
are tabulated as follows : 



TYPE. 



Weight in kilogrammeB. . . 

Horae-power 

Rotations per minute 

Capacity 16-candle lamps . 

Volts of tension 

No. magnet limbs 



E 


Z 


L 


K 





H ; 


290 


1280 


2500 


8800 


80000 


8000 i 


2.5 


8 


18 


82 


125 


66 


2200 


1200 


900 


900 


850 


1100 


17 


00 


250 


250 


1200 


400 


110 


110 


110 


110 


110 


110 


2 


2 


6 


6 


12 


6 



The above figures show plainly the advantage of using 
large machines to which much power can be applied. 

[The '*H" machine, included in the above table, is 
illustrated in Fig. 229. The apparent displacement of the 
contact points of the brushes on the collector from the neu- 
tral magnetic line is due to bending the loops from the 
bobbins to the segments of the collector which lie nearly on 
the horizontal line. This is done to render access to the 
brushes for adjustment more easy. This ''H'' machine is 
the latest type of Mr. Edison's dynamos, because he has 
found advantages in shortening the magnet cores, as be- 
fore noticed. This machine occupies a space on the floor of 
77 X 33 inches, and is 61 inches high. The pulley has a face 
of 12^ inches and is 14 inches in diameter. 

Figs. 230, 231, 232, 233, taken from Mr. Edison^s U. S. 
patent, show the construction of the armature more in 
detail. 

Fig. 230 is a section through an armature. Fig. 231 a 
view of the bars or strips laid out, the vertical dotted lines 
representing the plates between which the cross-connecting 
disks or rings are clamped. Figs. 232 and 233 are views of 
the copper disks or rings. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 
Fio. S99. 



357 




Edison's '*^" Machine. 
Via. 28n 




358 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



A is the armature shaft, upon which is secured the core 
B of the armature. 

C C are the longitudinal bars or strips of copper, and 
D D' the cross-connecting rings or disks of copper, those of 
each set being separated by disks or rings of insulating 
material E. 

F is the commutator cylinder, and G the rods extending 
from the jimctions of alternate bars with the lugs on the 

Fig. 281. 




Plam of Edison Armature-Bars, 



disks, to the bars of such collector cylinder. These out- 
side collector connections may have the full conducting 
power of the inductive bars themselves. The bars of each 
layer are arranged opposite the spaces between the bars of 
the other layers, or so that the bars of the two layers will 
break joints. This permits the use of the outside collec- 
tor connections, which, for bars of the inner layer, pass 
between the lugs on the bars of the outer layer, such lugs 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 359 

being narrowed for that purpose at that end of the machine^ 
as shown in Fig. 231. 

It is evident that three or more layers of copper bars or 
strips, with cross-connecting disks or rings and outside 
collector connections, might be arranged in this way. 

These longitudinal bars or strips are connected at their 
ends by copper disks or rings insulated from each other, the 
same as if such bars were arranged in one layer. The 
double winding is in effect a single winding, with the alter- 

Fio. 982. Fig. S88. 





Copptr Disks. 

nate bars located in an outer layer. All the inductive bars 
are separately wrapped with a suitable insulating covering, 
and in addition the inner layer of bars or plates is separated 
from the outer layer by additional insulation. At one end 
of the armature the connections of the alternate bars with 
the disks are connected with the bars of the collector 
cylinder. 

Mr. Edison, in explaining the bar armature which he 
first made, and the rationale of it, says : 

" In that class of magneto or dynamo electric machines 
in which the revolving armature is composed of a cylindri- 
cal core whose surface is partially or entirely covered with 
coils wound parallel to the axis of the armature the coils 
cross each other at the ends, so that there is a large mass of 



360 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

wire upon the ends useless for the purposes of generation, 
while interposing unnecessary internal resistance in the 
machine^ and at the same time being in position for exces- 
sive accumulation of heat. These masses of wire, crossing 
each other at the ends, render repairs to any coil exceed- 
ingly difficult, for the repair of any one coil involves the 
unwinding of such coils as may overlap it upon the ends. 

" One object of this invention is to construct the revolv- 
ing armature so that these defects are remedied, to which 
end this portion of the invention consists in fixing upon 
insulating disks which are to be secured to the ends of the 
armature metal plates or bars corresponding in number to 
the number of coils or conducting-bars ; or if a coil be con- 
sidered as consisting of the two active wires or assemblages 
of wires exactly opposite to each other upon the face of the 
armature, then the number of plates is double that of the 
coils. These bars are arranged upon the disks as spokes 
from a hub, radiating from the center, and may be termed 
the 'radiating' plates or bars. These plates or bars are 
electrically joined in pairs or couples by circular metallic 
conductors permanently fixed upon the insulating disks, 
care being taken to insulate these circular joining conduc- 
tors from each other. This arrangement of radiating bars 
or plates and joining conductors takes the place of the wires 
which formerly crossed the ends. The radiating plates or 
bars are provided at their outer edges with recesses, in 
which the active generating metal, whether in the form of 
wires, strips, ribbons, or bars, may be secured by soldering 
or by screws, or they may be secured together in any other 
suitable way. 

" The construction of revolving armatures as ordinarily 
practiced, especially in the case of very large machines, 
requires the use of a large amount of insulated wire. This 
is expensive, and besides takes up room and allows of the 
accumulation of heat, owing to ihe non-conductor forming 



CONTINUOUS CURBENT MACHINES. 861 

the insulation, to remedy which is another object of this 
invention, to which end I use rigid naked bars or wires of 
proper material, which are so disposed about the armature 
that each is separated from the others, there being between 
them an insulation partly of mica and partly of air, which 
suffices in practice for insulation, and in addition allows 
such access of air to all the active parts of the armature 
that danger of heating thereof by accumulation is greatly 
lessened. 

'^ In dynamo or magneto electric machines it is often 
desirable to give considerable electromotive force to the 
generated current, while at the same time there is main- 
tained a low degree of internal resistance of the machine. 

'^Another part of the invention relates to the accom- 
plishment of this, and consists in so arranging the coils or 
bars and the commutators that all the coils or bars are 
always in circuit, so that an electromotive force due to the 
entire length of all the coils is obtained, and at the same 
time that part of the conductors which does not set up an 
electromotive force within the circuit is made of lower 
resistance by means of the circular and radial bars or plates 
at the ends than the portion in which the electromotive 
force arises. 

"The entire invention may be carried into effect by 
means substantially such €is shown in the drawing. Fig. 
234, wherein C is the commutating end and A the other end 
of an armature. 

'' Upon suitable insulating bases circular in form, the 
radial metal plates numbered 1 to 18 in A and C are secured, 
insulated from each other, as indicated, by the blank space 
between them. Upon A the circular plate or bar a connects 
1 and 10 ; 6, 2 and 11 ; c, 3 and 12 ; d, 4 and 13 ; e, 5 and 14 ; 
fir, 6 and 15 ; fe, 7 and 16 ; i, 8 and 17 ; fc, 9 and 18. Each of 
these bars is insulated from the other and from all the plates 
excepting those which it is designed to connect. It will be 
16 



362 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIG MACHINES. 




noticed that upon this end the circular bars connect exactly 
opposite coils, as would the wires ordinarily used. Upon 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 363 

the commutating end C the arrangement is somewhat dif- 
ferent. Upon it 1 and 12 are connected by m, 2 and 9 by n, 
3 and 14 by o, 4 and 11 by jp, 5 and 16 by g, 6 and 13 by r, 
7 and 18 by s, 8 and 15 by t, 10 and 17 by u. These bars are 
insulated, as before stated in the case of A. Upon the 
commutating end the odd-numbered circular bars are bent 
outwardly at a right angle at their inner end, the bent por- 
tions V V being secured to a hub and forming the commuta- 
tor. To these end disks thus constructed are secured wires, 
ribbons, or bars in any suitable manner, forming with the 
radial and circular plates the coils. 

^' For large machines I prefer to use naked bars of cop- 
per, B B', which are secured in the recesses shown in the 
outer edges of the radial plates. They will be sufficiently 
insulated from each other by the air space between them. 
If bars are used not sufficiently rigid to preserve their rela- 
tive distances from each other throughout their length, 
stays or blocks of insulating material — such as mica — ^may 
be placed between them at proper intervals. 

''By the arrangement of connections and the commuta- 
tor, as shown in C, all the coils are constantly in circuit, 
the generated current having the electromotive force of a 
coil of the total length of all the coils, while the internal 
resistance is kept low by the lessening of resistance in the 
ends due to the much larger mass of conductor in section of 
the plates and bars over that of the wires ordinarily used, 
while the resistance of the active parts, when bars are used, 
as described, is also greatly lessened. 

" Supposing the parts are in such position that the com- 
mutator-brushes are in connection with 5 and 15, the path 
of the generated currents will be as follows : starting, say, 
at the brush on 5, the path in the machine to 15 would be, 
for one portion of the current via 5eUo3cl2mlalOu 
17 iSt 15, and for the other portion via 5ql6h78lSk9n 
2 & lljp 4 d 13 r 6 gr 15, thus including every coil." 



364 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 

Mr. Edison hcis devised various ways of making the 
diametrical cross-connections for the bars of the armatures 
of his large machines. Figs. 335, 236, 237, show one of these 
designs. 

Fig. 1886. 




A rmaturt. 



Fig. 236 is a perspective view of the armature with- 
out the collector-connections, only a few of the copper 
bars and concentric rings being shown to avoid confusion ; 
Fig. 236, a longitudinal section through the armature, the 
collector cylinder being shown in elevation ; and Fig. 247, 
a separate view of one of the rings. 

The core A of the armature is built up of disks or rings 
of iron separated by paper. 

B represents the naked copper bars, arranged longitudi- 
nally on the core parallel with the axis of rotation, and 
insulated from such core and from each other. In practice 
the core is wholly or nearly covered by such bars. 

C C are the two series of concentric copper rings, lo- 
cated at the ends of the armature outside the polar exten- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



365 



sions of the magnets^ the rings of each series being insu- 
lated from each other. Each ring hcis two fingers, c, on its 
outer edge, which are bent inwardly for making connection 
with the inductive bars. At the collector end of the ma- 
chine each ring is connected with the bars of the collector 
cylinder D by an angular bar, d. 

F10.S86. 




Fig. 897. 



The connections of this machine are arranged symmetri- 
cally. At the collector end each ring connects two oppo- 
site inductive bars, and has a connection midway with 
the collector, while at the other end the terminal and 
initial bars of the pairs are connected 
symmetrically, so as to form a con- 
tinually closed multiple-arc circuit 
through all the bars, the current 
being divided at the negative col- 
lector-brush, and each part passing 
through one-half of the bars and meet- 
ing the other part of the current at 
the positive collector-brush. 

Another plan devised by Mr. Edison 
for cross-connecting the bars of an armature is shown in 
Figs. 238 and 239. 

Fig. 238 is a perspective view from the collector end, 
showing a few of the parts separated for clear illustration ; 




Ring, 



366 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fig. 239, a side elevation of some of the parts at the col- 
lector end of the armature. 
A is the core of the armature. 



Fio. 188. 




Part o/Armaturt, 

B B' are the copper inductive bars, extending longitudi- 
nally along the core A, and connected at their ends to cop- 
per disks C, insulated from each other. The bars B extend 

Fio. 339. 




Part of Armaiurt. 

straight to the ears a of the disks, while the alternate bars 
B' are curved over the first line of ears to ears h of the 
second line. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



367 



D is the collector, and E represents the rods, extend- 
ing from alternate ears to the bars of the collector. 
The contacts of B and B' and of E with the ears of disks O 
are plated with gold or amalgamated, or both. The thim- 
bles c on bolts d separate the disks C from the ends of the 
core A to bring such disks outside of the polar extensions of 
the machine and remove them as far as practical from the 
effects of the magnetic field. The copper disks C have 

Fu. MO. 




double-beveled edges e, forming angular spaces, mto which 
the projecting edges of the paper sheets / are pressed to 
prevent electrical creeping between the edges of disks. 

F is the insulating wrapping of parchment-paper, and 
Q the mica.— K.] 



T"!. Jurg-enseii's IMacliiine, shown in Fig. 
240, has a peculiar form. It is the invention of Prof. C, P. 
Jilrgensen and Dr. P. L. V. Lorenz of Copenhagen. The 
main peculiarity is in intensifying the field within which 
the Gramme armature is rotated, by providing a stationary 
electro-magnet inside of the armature, with the object of 



368 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fzo. 941. 



utilizing the interior part of the bobbins on the annular 
core. The field magnet limbs are curved from the iron base 
which serves to close the magnetic circuit. Toward the 
poles the number of superimposed layers of wire are 
increased. Owing to the curve of the cores wedge-shaped 
spaces are left between the coils, but they serve to ventilate 
the core. For greater stability the poles are connected at 
the top by a plate of non-magnetic material fastened there- 
to. The interior electro-magnet is shown separately in Fig. 
241. It is composed of four radial arms which are con- 
nected to a common axial hub. Two of these arms on each 
side are connected at their outer ends by an iron pole-piece 
of segmental form. The arms are so wound that the cur- 
rent through their coils make& 
unlike poles of the two pole- 
pieces. Like poles of the in- 
terior, d d, face like poles of the 
exterior, a^ a\ It will be seen 

Bl W Kj^'Jitl J ^ ' ^^^^ ^^ *^^® manner a very in- 

A^ /^^ ^ tense annular magnetic field 

is gained through which the 
bobbins of the armature are 
moved. The core of the arma^ 
ture is formed of a number of 
fiat, insulated iron rings which are held together, side by 
side, by bolts which pass through them. 

This core is wound as in the Gramme armature, and has- 
like collector and brushes. 

Ventilation of the armature of this machine is secured 
by fastening the perforated disk g^ opposite the end of the 
armature. On the armature is fastened a like disk which 
rotates with the armature. The rotation of the one disk 
near the fixed one produces a draught of air through the 
hollow cylinder. The design of this machine may be con-- 
sidered perfect from a theoretical point of view, but ita 




Armature and Interior Electro-Magnet 
of Jtirgensen^t Machine, 



CONTINUOUS-CURRENT MACHINES. 



369 



practical construction involves mechanical difficulties in 
the manufacture of machines of considerable size. 

ys. [AV^eston's Central IMeLgnet IMCa- 
cliiiie. Mr. Edward Weston has also built a machine 
having a pair of magnet-poles within the bobbins of the 




WetiotC* Central' Magnet Machine. 



armature. But, instead of the armature being wound after 
the Gramme model, as in the Jurgensen machine, it is 
wound much like that of his other machines, somewhat as 
is the Siemens machine illustrated by Fig. 191, in the 



370 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fio.948. 



respect that there is no iron armature core ; the bobbins 
being wound upon a cylinder of non-magnetic material, 

preferably paper. Fig. 
242 is an isometrical per- 
spective view of the ma- 
chine. Fig. 243 is a trans- 
verse vertical section 
through the line x a; on 
Fig. 242. Fig. 244 is a 
central longitudinal sec- 
tion of a rotating shell, 
the commutator, the in- 
terior stationary magnet, 
and the bar upon which 
the • interior stationary 
magnet is supported, and 
upon which the rotating 
shell and commutator re- 
volve, showing the mode 
of winding each system 
of coils upon the shell, 
and of connecting such 
coils with the sectors of 
the commutator, and also the mode of winding and connect- 
ing the coil of the interior stationary electro-magnet. Fig. 
245 is an isometrical perspective of the exterior stationary 
electro-magnets, with the cap, base, and rotating parts of the 
machine removed for the purpose of showing the mode of 
winding the coils on the stationary magnets and connecting 
them with the other parts of the machine. At C is an iso- 
metrical view of the rotating shell and commutator, show- 
ing but one of the systems of coils on the shell. At D is an 
isometrical view of the interior stationary magnet and its 
supporting bar and one of the standards which supports the 
bar. At K and K' are the two binding-posts of the machine. 




Weston* s Central- Magnet Maehint. Crost-stctiom* 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



371 



Spiral lines show the method in which the several parts 
of the machine are included in the same circuit. A system 
of arrows shows the path of the current through the entire 
circuit in one direction. 

Fig. 246 contains a group of figures similar to those of 
Fig. 245, respectively marked 4', 5', 6', 7', 8', 9 and 10, and 
shows the rotating shell provided with two commutators, 
and also shows the method of connection by which two 
distinct circuits are obtained, K, and K3 being the two ad- 
ditional binding posts required for the second circuit. 




Longitudinal Section of Armaturt and Central Mt^^et, 

The machine has a substantial bed-plate. A, to which 
are secured the two vertical cores of the stationary electro- 
magnets B B^ The upper ends of these cores are bolted to 
the cross-piece B^, and the coils B^ are so wound upon the 
vertical cores that the laterally-projecting poles 6 and V are 
of opposite polarities. The faces of the poles 6 V are con- 
cave and just clear the periphery of the revolving shell C, 
which is provided with a series of equidistant ribs, c, paral- 
lel with its axis and projecting from its ends, and by means 
of which it is secured to the peripheries of two cup-shaped 
disks, c^. These disks are each provided with long hubs c^, 
which are perforated to admit the axis or central bar, d, 
upon which they revolve, and by which the electro-magnet 
D is supported within the interior of the shell. The com- 
mutator-disk E is affixed to one of these hubs, and the 
driving.puUey F is affixed to the other. The shell C is an 



372 



DYNAMO-ELKCTRIC MACHINES. 



elongated sphere, and is provided at one end with a remov- 
able cap, G, which is held in place by the screws g, radially 
inserted through the ribs c. These are eight in number. 
Four distinct and similar systems of coils, CS are wound 



Fio. 915. 




Circuit of WestoiCt Central-Armaiure MacAifU. 

lengthwise around the shell in the spaces between the ribs. 
Two convolutions of one of these systems of coils are 
shown in Fig. 246. The ends C^ of each of the coils C* are 
connected, respectively, with two diametrically opposite 
divisions or sectors, c, of the commutator. Holes are bored 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



373 



through the outer faces of the ribs c, to allow the air from 
the interior of the shell to escape when the shell is rapidly 
rotated. The ends of the shell are perforated to admit air 
into its interior, and hence when the shell is rotated a 
rapid circulation of air is kept up, which tends to cool the 
structure. 

FU.MH. 




Circuit 0/ Waion'* Ctntrai-Armaiurg-Mackine. 

The commutator is composed of a number of metallic 
sectors, c, equal to twice the number of coils upon the shell, 
such sectors being insulated from each other, and af&xed to 
the flat face of the disk E, fastened to one of the rotating 
hubs A Each pair of diametrically-opposite sectors is con- 
nected with the opposite ends of one of the systems of coils 
upon the shell. As the neutral points in the magnetic field 
are vertically opposite each other in the centre of the ma- 
chine, all the adjoining sectors on either side of the com- 



374 DTNAMO-BLBOTRIC MACHINES. 

mutator are of like polarity, and of opposite polarity to the 
adjoining sectors on the other side of the commutator. The 
currents induced in the rotating coils are collected from 
the commutator by the brushes H and HS each of which it 
will be seen overlaps two or more sectors of like polarity. 

The brush H is electrically connected, by means of the 
wire A, with one end of the wire which forms the coils B* 
upon the exterior stationary magnets. The other brush, 
HV is electrically connected, by means of the wire A', to 
the standard I, in the upper end of which one end of the 
bar d is supported. 

One end of the coil D' on the stationary magnet D is con- 
nected with the iron core of the magnet D, and hence with 
the supporting-bar d, and the other end of the coil is carried 
out through the interior of the bar d, which is made hollow 
for the purpose, and is connected by means of the wire d*^ 
with the binding-post K. One end of the operative circuit 
L is connected with the binding-post E, and the other end 
with the binding-post K^ the latter being connected, by 
means of the wire fc, with the end of the coil B^ on the sta- 
tionary magnets opposite to the end which is connected by 
the wire h to the brush H. 

Referring to Fig. 246, it will be seen that C represents a 
rotating shell provided with two conunutators, E E and 
E' E', each composed of four sectors, connected, respective- 
ly, with the ends of two of the four coils upon the rotating 
shell. To prevent obscurity, but two of the four coils on 
the rotating shell are shown. The coils B^ are in this case 
connected by the wire k with the binding-post K^ and by 
the wire h h with the brush H, and the brush H^ is connect- 
ed by the wire i with the binding-post K, the binding-posts 
K and K* being connected by the operative part L of their 
circuit. 

The brush IP of the other conmiutator is connected by 
the wire j with the standard I, and hence with one end of 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 375 

the coil D' on the stationary magnet D, while the other end 
of the coil D/ is connected by the wire d' with the binding- 
post K*, the latter being connected by the operative part L' 
of its circuit with the binding-post K*, with which the com- 
mutator-brush H^ is connected by the wire j\ 

The mode of operation of the parts in the arrangement 
shown in Fig. 246 is similar to that of Fig. 245.— K.] 

[T'S. "W^e stones Stationary- A-raiatuire 
JMCachine. Mr. Weston has also constructed another 
machine having novel features. We describe it on that 
account, though we do not deem it a practicable machine, 
especially because it is so hard to construct. 

Fig. 247 is an isometrical perspective of the machine. 
Fig. 248 is a central longitudinal vertical section. Fig. 249 
is a transverse section through the line x x on Fig. 248. 
Fig. 250 is an isometrical perspective of the skeleton-frame 
upon which the coils are wound. 

The cylindrical iron shell A, open at the ends, is provided 
with foot-pieces A', by means of which it is secured to the 
bed-plate a. Within the cylinder A is a skeleton-frame B, 
consisting of two or more rings 6 6, joined together by the 
equidistant strips or ribs h\ which are parallel with the axis 
of the cylinder, and which serve to divide the rings into 
eight equal segments. The outermost surfaces of the ribs 
V are curved transversely to fit the interior surface of the 
shell A, to which they are fastened by the screws 61 The 
number of ribs, and consequently the number of segments 
into which the skeleton-frame is divided, will depend upon 
the size of the machine. 

The skeleton-frame is shown to be divided into eight 
segments, and each pair of diametrically opposite segments 
serves to support one of the four coils C, Each coil tra- 
verses the entire exterior of the skeleton-frame, extending 
across the ends of the cylinder from the segment on one 



376 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



side to the segment diametrically opposite, and the free 
ends c' and c* of the coil are respectively connected with two 



Fio. 947. 




WtstoH^s stationary- ArmatHTt Mack int. 



stationary brushes, c" and c^, bearing upon diametrically- 
opposite sides of the cylindrical commutator D d. This 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



377 



mode of winding and connecting each coil is shown in Fig. 
248, whereon, for the sake of avoiding confusion, only one 
of the four coils is represented. 




The eight brushes required for connection with the free 
ends of the four coils are secured in the slotted steins c^, pro- 
jecting laterally from the face of the annular cup-shaped 



378 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



disk c^, of insulating material^ which is supported upon the 
cross-bar H. 

The commutator is composed of the two concentrically- 
curved strips D d, which project laterally in opposite direc- 
tions from the opposed faces of the hubs D' d\ The hub d' 
is secured directly upon the rotating shaft E, while the hub 
D' is mounted on a bushing which insulates it from the 




Wttton's Stationary' Armature Machine. CraU'seetiom, 

shaft E. The two curved strips D d overlap each other 
upon opposite sides of the shaft, and the two spaces between 
their edges are filled with wood, in order to provide a con- 
tinuous concentrically-curved path for the brushes c" and 
c28, not less than three of which are always in contact with 
each strip. The hub D' is elongated sufficiently to provide 
a bearing for the brush D*, which is supported in the stem 
D*, projecting laterally from one of the binding-posts F, 
with which one end F' of the operative part of the circuit is 
connected. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINBS. 



379 



Outside the hub DMs a metallic collar G, mounted upon 
an insulating bushing e upon the shaft E, and separated 
from the hub D' by the insulating collar e\ The other bind- 
ing-post / of the machine, to which the other end /' of the 
operative circuit is connected, is provided with a brush G', 
which bears upon the periphery of the collar G. The inner 
face of the collar G is connected with the wire g, which is 
inclosed in a tube of insulating material g\ inserted in holes 




Wgston^s Stationary- Armature Mackiiu, Shell, 



Sf2, extending through the hubs D' and d'. The inner end 
of the wire g is secured by a set-screw gf® to a metallic col- 
lar flf*, which is separated from the shaft E by the flanged 
insulating-bushing ^. 

The bearings H h for the shaft E are formed in the arms 
H' h'y which extend horizontally across each end of the cyl- 
inder, and are bolted thereto. The shaft E has at the front 
end of the cylinder an enlarged journal, which is longitudi- 
nally perforated to receive the insulating tube i contain- 



380 DTNAMO-SLECTRIC MACHINES. 

ing the wire i\ which at its forward end is secured to the 
collar gr* and serves to connect that collar with one end of 
the system of coils I surrounding the iron core I' of an elec- 
tro-magnet mounted upon and revolving with the shaft E. 
The opposite end of the system of coils I is connected to the 
iron core of the rotating magnet^ and hence through the 
core and shaft E with the commutator-hub d\ and succes- 
sively with the brushes connected with the ends of the sta- 
tionary coils.— K.] 

T'-^r. The ]M[a.eliiiies of ]Via,iidet, TV^al- 
lace-Farmer, I^ontin, a.i:id Bmrg-in, have 
a close relation to the machines just discussed; though 
they possess no ring-formed bobbin of iron, nor drum, 
but they show the same principle of connecting up the 
several bobbin wires as in the Qramme ring, and also 
the principle of taking up the current without a commu- 
tator proper. If the machines described in previous sec- 
tions (46 to 73 inclusive) can be regarded as belonging to 
one family designated by the points for taking oflE the cur- 
rents, which are perpendicular to the line of greatest mag- 
netic intensity, we must group the machines described in 
this and the next succeeding sections, numbers 75, 76 and 
77, to a second class, because the points of taking the cur- 
rent lie on the pole-line itself. [These points really lie 
on the line at which the rotating magnet-poles leave the 
stationary ones. — K,] 

IViauLdet's ]M[a.gnnLeto - Electric ]\£a^ 
cbiive. Alfred Niaudet has constructed (1872) a magneto- 
electric machine which combines the principle of Clarke's 
machine in a multiple form, with the manner of connecting 
the coils practiced by Pacinnotti and Gramme, thus making 
a commutator unnecessary. 

For construction of this machine, refer to Fig. 251 to 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



3Sl 



make plain this description. The two permanent magnets 
are fastened to the base, so that their respective poles are 
in opposition, i. e., the north pole of one and the south pole 
of the other are upon the base. On the shaft two disks of 
non-magnetic material, like brass or vulcanite, are fastened. 
Between and to the disks twelve cores and coils are fas- 
tened at equal distances apart, and parallel with the shaft. 

Fio. 851. 




Niaudeft Mt^ntto- Electric Machin*, 



The beginning-end of each coil is connected with the 
terminating-end of the next adjacent coil in either of the 
two directions. So, when the connections are completed, 
the wires of the several coils are electrically connected, and 
there is but one circuit, which embraces all the coils. 
Twelve strips of metal are fastened upon one of the disks, 
extending radially from near the shaft, one of each, to a 
point of connection between the wires of each two spools. 
Two springs are caused to press successively upon these 
strips as the disks are rotated, one above and the other 



382 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES 



below the shaft, on a line drawn from pole to pole of one of 
the magnets. 

As currents generated by recedence from a north pole 
and approach to a south pole have one direction, and those 
of recedence from a south pole and approach to a north 
pole have the contrary direction, it follows that all the coils 
on one side of the line from pole to pole must have a cur- 
rent of one direction, and those on the other side a current 
opposed. So they must meet at the strip which at the mo- 
ment is parallel with that line. As a complete circuit is 
furnished through the spring and wire to the other spring, 
current flows as is illustrated in Fig. 251. 

TS. The TVallace-Farmer Light TVIa- 

chlne is said to have been built by the electrician Moses 

Fio. S52. 




Tke Wallace' Farmer Machint. 



G. Farmery in Boston, in 1876, and latterly by the house of 
Wallace & Sons, Ansonia, Conn. 

It suddenly attained great reputation in the United 
States and England, when Edison used it in his first experi- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



383 



ments in electric lighting, and spoke of it as producing 
unlimited currents of electricity. An examination of the 
engraving of it shown in Fig. 252 will show to the expert at 
once that it deals only with the principles of construction, 
with which we have become so familiar in the descriptions 
of the machines of Niaudety Lontin, and Schuckert 

The machine has two half -flat horseshoe-shaped electro- 
magnets, whose opposite poles face each other. In the 
magnetic field formed by these poles, a double crown of 
fifty sector-shaped bobbins are rotated, so that the pole ends 

Fig. 353. 




Waiiace-Farmtr Armature, 



of these bobbins pass successively at a very short distance 
in front of the stationary magnet poles. It will be seen 
that two iron disks are fastened upon the axis of rotation, 
each carrying twenty-five bobbins. Each bobbin consists 
of four sets of wire coils consecutively connected, while at 
the same time from the points of junction of two consecu- 
tive bobbins wires are connected which pass to a collector 
placed upon the axis, after the manner which has been 
minutely described in the cases of the Oramme and Siemens 
machines. All the iron cores upon which the bobbins are 
wound are made hollow, with openings, so that the circu- 
lation of air may act to cool them during rotation. 

By reason of the Oramme arrangement of the collector, 
the machine does not need a special commutator. It pro- 



384 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



duces from each crown of bobbins a system of currents 
haTing one direction, and th^ may be united for quantity, 
or in series, or be employed separately. The machine has 
the circuits so arranged that it works upon the dynamo- 
electric principle. The manufacturers of this machine 
claim many advantages for it ; one is that the position of 
the wire bobbins is such that they may be rapidly cooled by 
the air set in motion by the rotation. But this condition is 




LontitCs Dynamo-Electric Machitu, 

of so little practical effect that when the machine is work- 
ing normally at 800 rotations per minute, it becomes heated 
to the melting point of sealing-wax. In addition to this 
defect, the friction of the armature against the air is so 
great as to cause consumption of power as high as eight- 
horse to overcome it. 



T'O. Lontin's Dj^namo-ElectiTlc IMa- 
eliiiie* These machines resemble in their construction 
and principle those of the Society rAllictnce, and of Holmes^ 
as well as the dynamo-electric machines of Gramme. Fig. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 385 

254 shows one of these machines which was patented in the 
year 1874. A and A! are the two limbs of a strong ordinary 
electro-magnet, close to the poles of which the pole-ends of 
the induction coils D move in rotation in the direction 
shown by the arrows. The induction coils are carried on the 
cylindrical hub B of soft iron. Iron spokes D are fastened 
at regular intervals radially to the periphery of this hub, 
and act as cores of the electro-magnet coils. The wheel, or 
armature, here illustrated, has ten such arms, or spokes. 
Their number, however, can be increased or diminished. 
Each spoke is wound in the same direction with insulated 
copper wire, and in such a way that the terminating-end 
of each bobbin is connected with the beginning-end of 
the wire of the following one, so that the bobbins all form 
a single closed wire as in the Gramme armature. The 
figure shows but one armature of this kind, but several of 
these may be placed upon one axis. From the junctions of 
the wires of two consecutive bobbins, short, thick copper 
wires lead to the copper contact-pieces, or sectors, of a 
collector similar to that used in the Gramme machine. 
Brushes are used to bear upon the collector, as in other 
machines. The dynamo-electric principle is used as well. 
When the armature is rotated in the direction of the arrows, 
and any one of the bobbins, for example, D 1, approaches 
the south pole, S, of the electro-magnet, a current is gen- 
erated in the wire of D 1, having a certain direction (§ 8). 
The same occurs with the following bobbins as they ap- 
proach this pole. The difference between this and the 
Gramme & Siemens machines is that the currents are taken 
oflE by means of the brushes bearing upon the collector, on 
or near the line of greatest magnetic intensity. This line 
is shown drawn from S to N. 

It is hardly necessary to say that these machines may be 
constructed for various electrical effects, and having vari- 
ous degrees of intensity, according to the length and size 



386 . DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

of wire wound upon them, so as to be used for electric 
lighting or for galvanoplastic purposes. [Amau^hine waa 
patented in the United States in 1875, by J. B. Fuller, and 
was invented by him previous to the invention by Lontin, 
and was made in all electrical particulars like that we have 
just described. In practice it was found to consume very 
much more, power for given electric effects than those of 
the strictly (?ramw6 type ; so much so that, after putting- 
above fifty of them into practical use, the Fuller Electrical 
Company owning the patent withdrew them and substituted 
Qramme machines. They had two very grave faults, other 
than the waste of power ; one of which was extraordinary, 
heating, and the other the noise which was created during, 
the motion of the armature by reason of the rapid magneti- 
zation and demagnetization of the arms carrying the bob-; 
bins. — K.] 

If we imagine the Lontin machine so changed that the 
wheel shown in Fig. 254 carries 16 teeth, and that those are 
not in one plane, but are arranged in four planes, so that 
the teeth of one plane form a cross, and that each of these 
four crosses so formed is set at 22^ degrees from the precede 
ing one, we have a model of the 

W. I>yiiain.o - Electric 3Xa,cliiiie of 
Bui^g-ii^* Biirgin at first grouped eight iron bars upon, 
one axis, so that each pair of them lying in the same plane 
formed a cross. There were hence four crosses, each of 
which was set at 22^ degrees to the preceding one, so that 
the ends of the bars were in the line of the apices of the 
threads of a quadruple screw. The ends of the wire bob- 
bins wound upon the iron bars were all carried towards the 
axis, and then ran alongside of the axis to a copper ring at 
one end. This ring of copper was divided into as many 
sections as iron bars, and all sections were separated by 
insula4iag layers. The inner end of each bobbin was con- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



387 



nected at the corresponding segment of the ring with the 
outer end of the next bobbin^ and so on, till a complete cir- 



I 
I 



f 




I 
? 



cuit was formed of all the bobbins, as in connecting up the 
Gramme ring. 

The machine^ however, which is now known in England 



388 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



as Burgin's machine is another arrangement, which is 
shown in Figs. 255, 256, 257, and 258. 

The armature is made up of eight iron cores, each of 
which has the form of a hexagon, and is supported by 
radial arms from the axis. Each of these hexagonal rings 
is set 7i degrees in advance of the preceding one. Each 
core is wound in the same direction with six bobbins of 
copper wire, which are each 75 metres long and 7.5 milli- 
metres in diameter, and are so connected with each other 
that if the bobbins are imagined to be represented in one 

Fte. ML 




BUrgiiCt DynaftwElectric Machitu^ partly in Crou-^tcHon, 



plane, the end of a preceding bobbin is connected with the 
beginning of the succeeding one, and hence the entire num- 
ber of spools form one single closed circuit. From each 
junction of two bobbins a wire leads to a corresponding 
segment of the collector, which is formed just as in the 
nxachine of Lontin, and has as many segments as the arma- 
ture has bobbins. 

The pole-pieces of the stationary magnet are placed as 
close as is practicable to allow the armature to rotate. The 
resistance of the armature is 1.6 ohm. 



CONTINUOUS CURBBNT MACHINES. 
Fitt. 9B7. 



389 




Armature o/BUrgiiCt Machitu, 

The field magnets have 60 meters of copper wire of 3.5 
millimetres diameter, and are arranged as in the Siemens 
machine, one pole being above and the other below. The 
resistance of the four electro-magnet coils is 1.2 ohms, so 
that the entire resistance of the machine is 2.8 ohms. This 
is for a machine to run three lights. The electromotive 
force is given as 195 volts at 1500 rotations per minute, and 
at 206^ volts at 1600 rotations per minute, with a resistance 
of 13.16 ohms in the external circuit. 

The method of generating the current and directing it is 
the same as in the Lohtin machine. The fastening of the 
brushes which press upon the collector is seen in Figs. 255 
and 256. The bearings of the machine are bolted to the 
sides of the magnets. The machine seems to be very solidly 
built, and in this respect is superior. It measures 0.863 
meters in length, 0.342 metres in height, and 0.711 metres in 
width. It weighs about 6.5 hundredweight. Professor 
Hagenbach made experiments with a Biirgin machine, built 
by R. E. Crompton, and obtained the following result : 



No. or Lamps. 


STBENCra^ OF LlSHT 
PER HORSK-POWER m 

Normal Canslrs. 


Strength of Light 

OF KACH TjAMF m 

Normal Candles. 


3 

4 


800 
660 


1360 
700 



390 



D FN AM O- ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



T"®. The latest dynamo-electric machine of v. Hefner^ 
Altenecky for continuous currents, is illustrated in Figs. 259 
and 260. On the base A are fixed two iron supports B, the 
form of which can be seen from the drawing. Each of 
these supports carries on its interior side an equal number 
{n 4- 2) electro-magnets, whose pole-ends are opposite, as 
at N S, N S. The electro-magnets are so arranged on each 
of the supports concentrically to the axis E of the machine, 

Fio. 256. 




BUrgiiCs Machine^ partly in Longitudinal Section, 



that each one has opposite polarity to the one turned 
towards it, and also to those two which lie in the same 
plane to the right and left. The wires of the magnets are 
so connected that they form a single closed circuit. 

A number n of flat bobbins, wound with insulated wire 
around wooden cores of appropriate form, are arranged in 
two planes around the axis, so as to fill up the magnetic 
field between the poles of the stationary magnets. As the 
number of bobbins in one series of these spools is two less 
than the number of magnetic fields, only two diametrically 
opposite spools enter at the same time corresponding mag- 
netic fields. At the same moment the remaining bobbins 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 391 

FI0.8B9. 




Tk4 Latest Dynamo-EUctric Machine of v. H^ner-A Iteneck. Longitudinal SectiofU 



392 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



are either approaching or receding from magnetic fields. 
The maxima of current impulses hence does not take place 
simultaneously as the armature rotates, but take place 



Fw. S6B. 




Laitst Dynamo- Eltctric Machine of v. H^ntr-AUeneck, 

by consecutive impulses in consecutive periods. The ends 
of the bobbins are so connected with each other that the 
wire in all the spools forms a circuit closed in itself, but in 
such a manner that by following the wire of th-^ members 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 393 

of the circuit, each has a direction opposite to the previous 
one. From the junctions between the spools^ connecting 
wires lead to one group of the collector cylinder. One of 
these is situated upon the axis of the machine^ and consists 

of ^ (o + l) parts, insulated from the axis and from each 

other, and are all connected in n groups, in such a way that 

each group comprises « + 1 parts, which are distant from 

one another by n — 1 collector parts which lie between. 
The connections are led out from the n metallic rings r. 

Fig. 259, by ^ + 1 star-like projecting wires d, leading to 

the collector parts of the respective group. The connecting 
wires mentioned above lead to the rings r, but so that the 
consecutive intermediate wires are in connection with the 
consecutive rings. 

The diagram. Fig. 261, in which n equals 8, will make 
the whole plainer. In this diagram, the bobbins interposed 
in the circuit are shown in the varying direction of their 
convolutions by black and white circles, and the magnetic 
fields of different polarity by white and black squares ; the 
collector cylinders and the metal disks by the numbers 1 to 
8 ; the stationary springs pressing on the collector by the 
signs -f and — ; the wires connecting the convolutions of 
the bobbins by the lines drawn between them, 1 to 8. The 
described connections between the spools and collector cyl- 
inders have been omitted. They are to be imagined as so 
constructed that each of the intermediate wires 1 to 8 is in 
circuit connection with each collector part having the same 
lettering, 1, 2, 3, etc. The several parts of the diagram are 
represented in correct angle in relation to each other, but in 
order to be plainer are moved out of their actual position 
and placed radially, instead of parallel, to the line of rota- 
tion. 



394 



BYNAMO-ELECTEIC MACHINES. 



The diagram shows plainly the mode of action of the 
machine. If^ for example, the bobbins and the collector 
cylinder are imagined to be rotated in the direction of a 
clock-hand, the momentary position of the spools and the 
collector cylinder to the magnetic field may be assumed in 
any place whatever, and one will always be able to find 
a line passing through the centre which divides the figure 

Fig. 9SL 




Diagram shewing Origin and Collection of Current in v. He/ner'Alteneek Machine. 

into halves, in one of which the spools and the fields of 
the same color approach each other, while in the other half 
this is the case only with those of unequal color. In the 
figure, such a position is shown by the dotted line. 

If now, simultaneously, two consecutive spools approach 
the next nearest magnetic fields which have different polar- 
ity, current impulses of different direction will be generated 
in both spools, which in consequence of the described con- 
nection of the spools, will combine into a current having 
one direction. Hence it follows that all spools of one half 
give a current in the same direction as the rotation, and the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



395 



spools of the other half a current in the opposite direction. 
At the points 3 and 7 a current can hence be momentarily 
abducted. These points, however, are in connection with 
the rings r, 3, and 7, and through these again with the col- 
lector parts which are numbered 3 and 7 respectively. In 
the position shown, the two collector parts 3 and 7 are on 
one side or the other under the springs, which therefore 

FZO.MS. 




Dioiram sAowing Origin and CoUteti^n of Currtni in v. H^ner^lUntek Mackint. 

conduct an electric current into the exterior circuit which 
connects them. 

For every other position of the rotating parts, it is found 
that the imaginary line mentioned passes through those 
two points of the interior circuit which are in connecti(»i 
with the collector parts which at the same moment are 
under the springs. Therefore, it follows that from the posi« 
tive pole to the negative pole a continuous current is made 
to tiBvel 

^i;0W these statements it will be seen that the number 
of jbobbina and magnetic fields can be changed in manifold 
ways ; so, {or example, n — 3 bobbins can be used for n. 



396 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

bobbins. By retaining the number of magnetic fields, say 
n + 2, the number of bobbins can be doubled (2n). 

Doubling the bobbins in this way offers the special ad- 
vantage of more nearly imif orm pull of the parts, so that the 
action of the machine is smoother and sparks on the collec- 
tor less in number. The spools are then so arranged in two 
planes and lying against one another that they cover each 
other one-half, as is seen in Fig. 260. 

In Fig. 262 a diagram analogous to Fig. 261 is shown for 
such a double machine. It will be seen therefrom that the 
bobbihs do not follow intermittently, one after another, but 
are introduced gradually, overlapping one another in the 
current's circuit. Therefore the circuit connecting the 
spools appearing in Fig. 262 has a line protruding and re- 
ceding within the circle. The collector cylinder has eighty 
parts. In the position shown, the dividing line passes 
through the connecting points 3 and 11, and the momentary 
current directions are shown by the arrows. 

Some of the special advantages of the machine consist 
in the simple method of winding, and the possibility of 
securing the thorough insulation of the convolutions from 
the metallic parts. It is no less important that the spools 
contain no iron, and hence a magnetic change of polarity 
does not take place. Therefore the power lost by changing 
poles is avoided, the possibility of heating the machine is 
lessened, and very effective cooling takes place by reason 
of the air circulating in and around the parts. 

[T'O. The A-rag-o I>isk: I>yiiaiiio. This 
machine was invented by Prof. 0. A. Seeley, of New York 
City. It is said to have been improved by Mr. C. M. Ball. 
It was exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition. The 
machine resembles in principle the Hefner-Alteneck dy- 
namo, p. 390. The bi-polar type is illustrated by Fig. 254. 
Two uprights carry boxes for the armature shaft at near 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



397 



their centres, and two cores for electro-magnets equidistant 
from and parallel with the shaft. The poles facing each 
other have opposite polarities, and the two cores on either 
side of the disk armature are of unlike polarity. The ends 
of the cores are provided with sector-shaped pole-pieces. 



I 




Within the magnetic field so formed the armature is rotated. 
This armature is made up of a hub, around which are 
arranged six sector-shaped bobbins which, with the excep- 
tion of space occupied by the wooden cores upon which the 
bobbin-wires are wound, nearly fill the disk. The wires are 



398 



l>TNAUO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 




¥' \ 



arranged so that they are radially laid except at near the 
hub and at the periphery under the ring which serves to 
hold the whole together against the centrifugal force due to 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 399 

rapid rotation. The coils are all wound in the same direc- 
tion, but are coupled-up in such a way that a current pass- 
ing through them in series would circulate in contiguous 
ones in opposite directions. A commutator is connected 
with loops from the junctions of the several bobbins ; and 
the current is passed aroimd the field-magnets after the 
dynamo-electric principle, making it a so-called series- 
dynamo. 

Fig. 264 shows a variation of this machine which has six 
magnetic poles on each side of the disk, and of alternate 
polarity. Unlike poles are placed opposed to the sides of 
the disk. The connections between the sector-shaped bob- 
bins of the armature are as in the bi-polar machine. The 
loops are carried to a combined commutator and collector, 
resembling in principle that of the Hefner- Alteneck disk 
machine for continuous currents. (Page 390.)— K.] 



PART. VI. 

LATER ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES FOR THE 
PRODUCTION OF SEVERAL DIVIDED CURRENTS. 

Before auxiliary and differential lamps had been in- 
vented, the division of electric light was effected by pro- 
ducing several currents, independent of one another, and 
into each of these current-circuits one regulator was intro- 
duced. Some of these have already been described, suck 
as those of Wallace-Farmer, Lontin, etc. With the last 
named it is only necessary to place several induction- 
wheels on one shaft as an armature, and to provide each 
wheel with a separate current-collector to obtain as many 
independent currents as there are lights to be produced. It 
is also easy to arrange these so that at will the several 
divisions of the armature can be united with one another 
by means of a commutator, or switch, and a current pro- 
duced which is equal to the sum of all the single currents. 
All of the machines we have just mentioned, however, pro- 
duce currents having one direction only. At the same time, 
however, it was the general opinion, as well as that of Lon-- 
tiriy that machines giving alternating currents were the 
most advantageous for the production of electric light. 
The advantages which exist for alternating currents we 
have previously mentioned (page 107). Now, however, there 
seems to be no doubt that machines which give continuous 
direct currents are better adapted for use in public illumina- 
tion and in the conservation of power than those which 
give alternating currents. Such men as Crompton and 



ALTERKATINQ CURBENT MACHINES. 401 

Schuckert assert that alternating current machines can 
never compete with those giving currents of one direction, 
because the latter are said to give more light under similar 
circumstances. But Lontin, from his point of view, con- 
structed alternating current machines which generated 
several small currents, and which have great similarity to 
the machine of Holmes. 

SO. Lontin's A.lteima.tiiig' Cixxrent 
IMiAohiiiie. This machine is shown in Fig. 266. It con- 
sists of a hub a, upon which are placed radially twenty-four 
electro-magnetic arms A A. The wire of these electro- 
magnets is so connected that it forms one continuous cir- 
cuit, only interrupted at two ends, and these ends are 
fastened upon two contact rings or cylinders, which are 
well insulated from each other and from the shaft on which 
they are placed. There is an outer ring, upon which are 
fastened radially, but converging toward the centre, twenty- 
four shorter electro-magnets B B, etc. These are connected 
alternately in pairs. In the neighborhood there is placed 
one of Lontin's dynamo-electric machines, the current from 
which is conveyed to the movable electro-magnets A by 
brushes, or springs, g and g\ One of these brushes bears 
upon one of the insulated cylinders, and the other upon the 
second cylinder. The current energizes these electro-mag- 
nets, so that they are of alternate north and south polarity. 
By means of a pulley, not shown, this central armature, or 
wheel of electro-magnets, is rotated, and induces currents 
of electricity in the electro-magnets B, which currents have 
alternately positive and negative direction as each magnet 
A passes by. 

The manner of taking the current from the machine, and 
of dividing it, is as follows : The wire ends of the single 
magnets B B are not directly connected with each other, 
but lead separately to opposite sides of the machine, one set 



402 



D7N A MO -EL EC TRIG MACHINES. 



of ends to M, where a movable contact arrangement or 
switch is fastened^ and the other set of ends leads to N. 
From M and N the circuit L L' is conducted, in which cir- 
cuit the current does its work. The switch at M has as 



i 

i 




many branches as the number of currents to be conducted 
from the machine, or as the number of electric lights to be 
supplied. The number of these circuits depends upon the 
construction, and upon the number of magnets B. In the 
arrangement shown in Fig. 265, two of these electro-magnets 
deliver a current, so the twenty-four magnets constitute 



ALTERNATING CUBBENT MACHINES. 403 

twelve circuits, all independent of each other. Each switch 
has two insulated binding-posts m m\ which can be con- 
nected at will. At the binding-post m the current leaves 
the machine, and if I be depressed enters the circuit L at 
m'. Besides this arrangement, each contact-closer contains 
another arrangement by which it can be immediately con- 
nected with its neighbor, so that it is possible to so connect 
all the circuits as to form a single circuit at will. On the 
opposite side N of the machine a number of binding-posts 
are situated, in which the other ends of the wires of the 
electro-magnets B are fastened. The great advantage of 
this machine is the facility with which independent cur- 
rents of different strengths can be taken from one appara- 
tus and employed for the production of several electric 
lights of different sizes, and because no contact brushes nor 
commutators are required, with their losses from friction 
and wear. 

With a speed of rotation of 300 turns per minute, the 
machine supports 12 separate circuits. Each of these cir- 
cuits contains a light equal to 100 carcel burners. With 160 
rotations, if 3 circuits each of 8 electro-magnet coils are 
formed, 3 lights are supported, each equivalent to 200 carcel 
burners. 

Special arrangements are made to prevent overheating 
of the machine, which would result at times when only a 
few of the currents were used in the main ; the currents not 
to be utilized are passed through resistance apparatus equal 
to resistance of the lights. 

One of the larger niachines of this kind served to illumi- 
nate the railroad depot at Lyons, where it fed 31 lamps 
placed at different points, and each gave a light equal to 46 
carcel burners. We were unable to ascertain how much 
power was used for running the machine. In another ma- 
chine of this kind, which fed 24 single lights of 200 Carcel 
burners, or 48 lights of 100 Carcel burners, the expenditure 



404 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



of power was from 20 to 22 horse-power. With smaller 
machines, of 300 to 400 Carcel burners, almost 6 horse- 
power was requisite. Since then, Lontin has made impor- 



i 




tant improvements in his machine, by which it is possible, 
during the working of the machine, to change the strength 
of the currents by hand, that they may rim in one direction 
constantly, or alternately, as may be desired ; also, so the 



ALTERNATING CUBBENT MACHINES. 405 

currents may be connected, and run either in one circuit, 
or through separate ones. 

The great progress which had been made in the division 
of electric light by Lontin^s machine, in part, as well as the 
numerous applications of the Jablochkoff candles, induced 
Oramme to lay aside for a time his efforts to improve his 
dynamo-electric machine, and concentrate his attention on 
the construction of a magneto-electric machine for alter- 
nating currents. He followed in the main the typical forms 
which are given in the machine of the SocieU V Alliance 
and that of Holmes for the production of alternating cur- 
rents, but without simply copying them. On the contrary, 
the details of this new Qramme machine present such 
advantages that the inventor is entitled to much credit. 

81. Griramme's IMiAoliiiies for A^lter- 
na.ting' Cunrents. One of these machines is repre- 
sented in Fig. 267, in longitudinal section ; and in Figs. 267 
and 268 partly in cross-section through the lines A B and 
B C ; and in Fig. 270 in diagram, for the purpose of illus- 
trating the course of the circuit. [The measurements on 
Figs. 267 and 268 are in millimetres.— K.] 

Description : (1), two strong circular side walls D, well 
fastened to each other by eight cylindrical cross-bolts of 
copper ; (2), a steel axis F, upon which eight electro-magnet 
cores K K are fastened, by means of a cast-iron ring I 
and two eight-sided cast-iron hubs H H ; (3), a number of 
bobbins Of copper wire ah cdj wound closely and placed 
near to each other upon a ring of soft iron, or upon an 
equal number of segmental pieces of soft iron, and held 
together on the outside by a copper ring ; (4), two cylinders 
N fastened upon the axis, and insulated therefrom, upon 
which two wire brushes P, one upon each, press ; (6), two 
thin disks T, which serve the purpose of protecting the 
armature and strengthening it at the same time ; (6), a base 



406 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



K upon which the entire frame of the machine rests ; (7)9 a 
covering of mahogany, perforated for good ventilation; 
(8), a nmnber of smaller parts, having for their objects in- 



^ 

2 




crease of the stability of the machine, to protect and oil its 
movable portions, and to insure regularity of running. 
The electro-magnets obtain the electric current necessary^ 



ALTERNATING CUBBBNT MACHINES. 



407 



to magnetize them through two wire brushes P and the 
cylinders N. As a rule, this current is delivered by a com- 
mon Oramme machine for direct currents, but any other 



Pio.MS. 




Gramme EUctric Machine /or Altemating Currents, 



strong source of electricity may be used, as in the machine 
of Lonttn. A Ghramme armature may be fastened on the 
axis F, and rotate with it. 

The eight electro-magnets are fastened at equal dis- 
tances upon the axis F, and are provided with plates which 
extend their polar surfaces so that there is but a small 



408 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



space between the poles. As the bobbins are wound in 
opposite directions, the neighboring ones will have opposite 
polarity, so that a north pole will have a south pole on 
either side, and vice versa. The thirty-two wire bobbins 
abed are insulated from each other, and each delivers its 



Fio. 960. 




Gramme MachtHt for Alternating Currents. 

ends to two insulated binding-posts e e\ Fig. 269, so that it is 
possible to take from the machine thirty-two single currents, 
independent of each other, or by appropriately connecting 
the binding posts, sixteen, eight, or even only four cur- 
rents, but of course of greater strength. This is now done 
in the illimiination of the Hippodrome and the Place de 
rOpera, etc., in Paris. When the machine is set in motion, 
the strong radial-magnet poles move closely by the wire 



ALTBRNATINO CURBENT MACHINES. 409 

bobbins abed, and thereby cause induction currents in 
the latter (Sections 8 and 11), the intensity of which de- 
pends upon the strength of the magnet poles and the rapid- 
ity of rotation. The strength of the current in each of the 
bobbins designated by the same letter is the same. If, 
theref ore, it is desirable to take four single currents from 
the machine, it is only necessary to connect in series the 

Flo. 870. 



Diagram of Gramme M aching for Alttrnating CurrenU. 

eight bobbins of the same letter, making four series of eight 
each. These four groups will each deliver a current having 
a tension eight times as great as that of the current from a 
single bobbin. 

If a magnetic north pole approaches a bobbin, a current is 
generated in the latter having a certain direction ; the neigh- 
boring pole being a south one, approaches a neighboring 
bobbin in which a current of opposite direction is generated. 
If, therefore, it is desired to arrange the machine in such a 
18 



410 DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

manner that in all bobbins of like position, for example, a, 
a current of one direction shall be simultaneously gener- 
ated, the wire of these bobbins must be alternately wound 
in opposite directions. If, however, it is desirable to have 
currents of opposite direction simultaneously in all bobbins 
having the same position relatively to the inducing magnet 
poles, the direction of the wire must be the same. 

Gramme has constructed three different-sized large ma- 
chines according to this system. The first supplies sixteen 
Jablochkoff candles ; it requires sixteen horse-power to run 
it, including that expended upon the Qramme machine 
which is used for magnetizing the electro-magnets. The 
two machines cost $2000. It measures over all 89 centi- 
metres in length, 76 centimetres in width, and 78 centime- 
tres in height, and occupies a space of \ cubic metre. Its 
maximum rapidity of rotation is 600 per minute. It has a 
total weight of 650 kilogrammes. The weight of the copper 
wire on the apparatus is 103 kilogrammes. 

The second machine supplies six Jablochkoff candles, 
and requires six horse-power to run it, including the power 
of the Oramms charging machine. It costs $1000. It 
measures 70 centimetres long, 40 centimetres wide, and bit 
centimetres high, and occupies a space of 0.15 cubic metres. 
It makes 700 rotations per minute, and weighs 280 kilo- 
grammes ; the copper wire weighs 40 kilogrammes. 

The third machine feeds but four Jablochkoff candles ; 
it requires four horse-power, inclusive of the charging ma- 
chine. The cost of both machines is $700. Its length is 55 
centimetres, its width 40 centimetres, its height 48 centi- 
metres, and it occupies a space of 0.11 cubic metres. It 
makes 800 rotations per minute and weighs 190 kilo- 
grammes ; the weight of effective copper wire is 28 kilo- 
grammes. 

If a comparison be made between the Chramme systems of 
alternating currents and continuous currents, the following 



ALTBRNATINO CURRENT MACHINES. 411 

differences in construction and efficiency will be found. 
In machines of the latter kind, wire bobbins without end, 
wound upon an iron ring, rotate close by the poles of a 
permanent or electro-magnet. The main parts of construc- 
tion are this ring or armature, a current collector, and an 
electro-magnet with opposite poles ; the result is a contin- 
uous current, constant under equal rapidity of rotation, 
and of one direction. The principle of the former machine 
consists in the rotation of the electro-magnets and their 
direct action upon stationary wire bobbins. The essential 
parts of the construction are electro-magnets with simple 
poles and single wire bobbins, separated and well insulated 
from each other, the convolutions of which may have the 
same or opposite direction ; the result is a system of revers- 
ing currents, as in the Alliance machines, etc. ; they may 
be used for the production of the electric arc light, and are 
requisite for supplying the currents to Jablochkoff candles. 

In the alternating current machine which Ghramme made 
in 1878, he energized, or "charged," the movable armature 
by means of a special auxiliary machine g^iving continuous 
currents. Such an arrangement made transportation more 
difficult and complicated, and had some disadvantages in 
respect to uniformity of the current which produced the 
light in the electric candles. Therefore, he xmited the 
movable parts of both machines on one axis. This made a 
better and cheaper machine, which insured greater uni- 
formity of action. 

While the arrangement for producing alternating cur- 
rents with six electro-magnets remained the same as in the 
previous one, the machine differed from the older one in 
combining the radial cores so as to make two compound 
magnet poles, in the field of which the Ghramme ring is 
rotated, inducing, as in the continuous current machine, 
two poles in the ring armature. (See Fig. 271.) The cur- 
rent generated in the armature is passed through a variable 



412 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



resistance coil, so that the current may be varied in well- 
known way. The convolutions of the wire are so arranged 
that they may be coupled as a single wire in series, or aa 




I 



two or more wires in multiple arc, so as to produce either a 
current of tension for small candles, or a current of inten- 
sity for larger candles. 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



4ia 



No. OF 
EXPEBI- 

MXRT. 


Rotations 

FEB 

MlSIITB. 


Power ih 

KlLOGBAM- 
1IBTRB8. 


NcifBER 
OF 

Candles. 


Size of Lights 
IN Cabcel 

BUBNEBS. 


1 


1140 


145 


2 


46 


2 


1200 


204 


4 


47 


3 


1330 


330 


6 


44 


4 


1400 


380 


8 


42 


6 


1440 


362 


12 


26 


6 


1360 


310 


8 


38 


7 


1300 


287 


6 


37.6 


8 


1300 


334 


6 


60.2 


9 


1460 


376 


8 


47.2 


10 


1000 


— 


16 


48 


11 


1020 


— 


20 


61 


12 


1200 


— 


26 


31.5 



These machines are now constructed of two sizes. The 
smaller ones weigh 280 kilogrammes, and supply 12 candles 
of 20 to 30 Carcel burner size, or 8 of 40 to 50 burner size. 
The larger machines weigh 470 kilogranmies, and supply 24 
candles of 20 to 30, or 16 of 40 to 60 burner size. The four 
first experiments given in the table above were made with 
a small machine driven by an Otto gas engine, and the 
coils were so connected that they formed 2, 3, and 4 separate 
current circuits. The power needed to drive them was 
measured by a Prony brake. The candles had carbons of 
4 millimetres diameter, and they burned for two hours. 
The experiments 5 to 7 were made with the same machine, 
having the coils connected in series as one circuit. The 
candles had carbons of 3 millimetres diameter, and burned 
for li hours. The division of the light could have been 
continued still further, but by decreasing them to 20 burner 
size the light lost much in regularity of power. The experi- 
ments 8 and 9 were made with a small machine, which was 
driven by a steam engine varying greatly in speed. Sev- 



414 DTKAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

eral candles were extinguished during the course of the 
experiments. This would, however, have been avoided by 
slightly increasing the rapidity of rotation. The experi- 
ments 10, 11, and 12 were made by the Societe Jablochkoff, 
in Paris, at their shops, with large machines. All the ex- 
periments demonstrated that the new machines gave a 
much steadier light than the ones of the year 18?8. 

83* The Jal>lochik:oflr A-lternating-- 
CixxTeiit IMachiiiie is shown in Fig. 272. It differs 
from the Gramme Alternating Machine mainly in the form 
of its rotating electro-magnets which are shown in Fig. 273. 
These consist of eight arms radiating from a common axial 
hub, but which are given a helical turn about the hub, and 
wound with insulated wire. 

As it would be difficult to form these screw-shaped mag- 
nets of one piece, each is built up of a number of iron plates 
having the form of a wheel of eight spokes without tire or 
felloes. Each plate, or form, is from 3 to 4 millimetres 
thick. The required number are set upon the shaft and 
fastened by bolts after each disk has been moved a little 
forward of the previous one in order to get the helical shape. 
Fig. 273 shows this very plainly. A step-shaped surface is 
produced, but which is smoothed off with a file. The eight 
arms are covered with insulated copper wire 3.7 millimetres 
in diameter. Usually the arms 1, 3, 5, and 7 are in one, and 
2, 4, 6, and 8 in another current circuit. The connections 
are so made that the first group receives north polarity 
and the second group south polarity, so that adjacent arms 
have opposite polarity. The current from a small Gramme 
machine is used to excite the magnet. 

The armature of this machine consists of 16 parts. The 
core of each of these parts is made up of a number of sheet- 
iron strips one millimetre thick, which are separated by 
strips of paper. This built-up core is wound with insulated 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



415 



copper wire in a direction perpendicular to the length of the 
strips. The two free ends of the wire are fastened to two 
screws insulated in the iron core. The sixteen parts are 



Fio. sn. 




yabhchkojf Alternating Cnrrent Machine. 



then placed in a circle, like barrel staves, with their ends 
on two brass head-plates, thus forming a hollow cylinder 
within which the before described curiously shaped electro- 
magnet is rotated. The wire of the armature pieces is so 



416 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fig. S78. 



wound that it is parallel with the direction of the rotation 
of the electro-magnet. 

The dimensions of the parts of the armature are so cal- 
culated that each can produce a current capable of supply- 
ing a Jablochkoff candle. Each of these parts contains 44 
metres of copper wire of two millimetres diameter and 0.3 
ohm resistance. A machine having 16 parts can supply 16 
candles. Large machines with 32 parts for 32 candles are 
built. Generally the wires are led from the screws on each 
part directly to the candle. By this arrangement every 

candle bums independently 
of the others, and can be ex- 
tinguished without affecting 
the others. Any number of 
parts may have their wires 
connected in series to form 
one circuit of higher tension. 
In order to bum 16 Jabloch- 
koff candles as high as 60 
normal candles, the electro- 
magnet must be run at a 
speed of 750 rotations per minute, and then it absorbs 14 
horse-power. The entire machine is fastened in a cast- 
iron frame which is 0.61 metre long, 0.50 metre wide, and 
0.64 metre high. The weight of the entire machine is 350 
kilogrammes. 




Electro- Magnet of the Jablochkoff Machine, 



S3. The .A^lteraatliigr Current IVfa- 
ehines of* Siemens Sc Ha^lske. In these ma- 
chines the magnetic field is produced by two crowns of elec- 
tro-magnets having iron cores arranged so that the electro- 
magnets have their unlike poles opposed to each other both 
horizontally and on the circular lines along which they are 
placed. Between the two annularly-arranged sets of poles 
there is a space in which the armature is revolved around its 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



417 



axis. This armature consists of a series of bobbins arranged 
at equal distances concentrically around the axis which is 
common to both armature and crowns of electro-magnets. 
These bobbins are usually fastened to a disk which is rotated 
so as to carry the bobbins between the opposed poles of the 
two crowns of electro-magnets. Currents, such as we have 
considered in § 11, are generated in the bobbins, having 
alternately one and the other direction. 

In order to prevent these currents from neutralizing 
each other, as they would if the bobbins were connected 



Fig. 274. 




Frinciple of the Ntw Alternating Current Machine. 

in regular order, the wire-ends are connected so that the 
wires of alternate ones have one common direction of 
winding and the intermediate ones have in common the 
other direction. This is shown in Fig. 274. In the new 
Siemens Machine, illustrated by Fig. 275, the armature bob- 
bins are wound on wooden cores and contain no iron, be- 
cause, on account of the great intensity of the magnetic 
field and the rapid changes of polarity, the Foucault cur- 
rents in iron cores would cause great loss of power in the 
production of unnecessary heat. In the large machines the 



418 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



bobbins are isolated (not insulated) by thin plates of Ger- 
man silver^ which are perforated to allow circulation of air. 
[In the machine now made these plates are of a star-like 
shape, one on each side of each bobbin, and bound together 
with cross-bolts. They serve to preserve the shape of the 



Vw,tUk 




SUmens &* Haltke AUtrnaiing Currtni Afackint^ with Ckargimg Mackint, 

bobbins and to fasten them in position. They were formerly 
made the shape of the bobbins and were perforated as 
stated. But local currents were generated in them — ^the 
probable reason for the change.— K.] The beginning-end 
of the wire of the first bobbin is taken to an insulated 
metallic ring on the shaft and the terminating-end of the 



ALTBBNATING CURBBNT MACHINES. 419 

last bobbin is taken to a like ring ; so that there is a con- 
tinuous dircuit from one ring to the other through the con- 
volutions of the bobbins, but open in the space on the shaft 
between the rings. A brush presses on each ring, and each 
l)rush has electric connection with a binding post to which 
the wires leading to the external circuit are attached. In 
this way currents are produced in the external circuit hav- 
ing a rapidly to and fro movement, but unsuitable for 
charging or exciting the field electro-magnets. The ma- 
chine is therefore excited by another machine which yields 
currents of constant direction. For this purpose the Sie- 
mens continuous current machine (p. 317) is used. Fig. 275 
shows the manner of combining these two machines. 

At one time these machines were made self -exciting, by 
taking the currents from a number of the bobbins, and by 
means of a commutator and connections turning their cur- 
rents in one direction through the wires of the spools of the 
field-magnets. This plan was abandoned because the sys- 
tem we have just described gave better results. 

As all the armature bobbins are at all times in the same 
relative position to the field magnet poles, i. e., reach or 
leave them simultaneously, it is plain that they may be 
connected either in series or in multiple arc, according to 
whether currents of high or low tension are desired. Sev- 
eral independent circuits can be supplied by the same ma- 
chine; to do so the armature bobbins must be separated 
into as many groups as there are circuits to be supplied with 
currents, and the beginning and terminating ends of each 
group must be connected with its special rings on the shaft, 
and their accompanying brushes and connections. The 
machine shown in Fig. 276 is arranged for two external cir- 
cuits. [Either the terminating or beginning ends of the 
several groups may be brought to one common ring, while 
the individual other ends must ha^e each a ring. In this 
case the external circuits must have like connections. — K.] 



420 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



The following table gives particulars about the several 
sizes of machines which are made : 



Type of Machine. 



Arc lamps of 400 candles 

Amperes of current in lamps 

i^mp^res of carrent in magnet coils. 

Armature bobbins 

Resistance of each bobbin in ohms. . 

E. M. F. of each bobbin in voits 

Number of rotation per minute 

Horse-power. 



w. 

8 


12 


w. 


18 


12 


12 


12 


17 


19 


21 


8 


10 


12 


0.27 


0.27 


0.29 


40 


47 


57 


800 


700 


650 


4i-6 


9 


11 



w, 



12 
24 
16 
0.32 
67 



Another form of alternating current machine made by 
Siemens & Halske is shown in Figs. 276 and 277. On a cast- 




Siemeru &* Halske' t Dynamo- Electric Machine for Direct and Alternating Currents 



iron base-plate, A, are two circular vertical frames, B, of 
iron, on each of which are fastened eight electro-magnets. 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 421 

C. The pole-pieces F are of wedge-shape soft iron. The 
magnets are arranged as in the last-described machine, but 
the armature is materially different. The core D is an iron 
ring, which may be made of one piece of soft iron, but it is 
usually built up of iron sheet or wire. The ring carries eight 
bobbins of rectangular shape, designated by S. The con- 
volutions of the bobbins are of insulated coppei: wire wound 
around the ring radially. The ring armature is attached to 
the spider I, which has eight arms and is keyed to the shaft 




Siemens &* HaUke^s Dynamo- Electric Machine /or Direct and A iter Mating Currents, 

E. The wires of the electro-magnets are connected together 
in series and their two extreme ends are conducted to the 
collector G, through the brushes, one of which is shown at 
K. Two of the armature bobbins are used to furnish cur- 
rent to excite the field electro-magnets. The current from 
them is commutated at G for the purpose. A series of con- 
tact rings, insulated from each other and the shaft E, are 



422 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

mounted on the latter, and the ends of the wire of the armet- 
ture bobbins are put into proper connection with them. 
Springs, or brushes, K, serve to conduct the currents from 
the rings to the external circuits. 

Fio. frts. 




yabUckk^'ff Lamp^ AUtrtuUing-Current Machimty and Dynamo- EUciric Charging- Machine. 

S4r. The Levett-lMuUer TVIachine. This 
machine was devised for the purpose of producing several 
currents at once, having different intensities and tensions. 
One of these currents is used to excite the field magnets, 
another for arc-lighting, another for incandescent lighting. 



ALTBBNATINQ CUBBBNT MACHINES. 



423 



and a fourth for electroplating or electrotTping. Each cur- 
rent is independent of the others, and can be regulated as 
desired. The armature is rotated between the opposed 
I)oles of two crowns of electro-magnets B, Fig. 279. There 
are twelve poles or six magnets. The armature contains 
either twelve or twenty-four bobbins, which are divided 
into groups of six each. This number corresponds with the 
number of field magnets. There are as many groups of 
bobbins as there are currents to be produced — ^two in the 



Fro. 379. 




Levtti'MulUr Machine. 

figure. [The figure is a section showing one-half of the 
machine.— K.] The bobbins are constructed of a size and 
length of insulated wire suitable for the desired strength 
and tension of current. As the consecutive magnetic fields 
are of alternating polarity, the consecutive bobbins are 
wound in opposite directions, but the consecutive bobbins 
of each group are wound in the same direction. 



424 



DYNAMO-BLSCTBIC MACHINES. 



The ends of the wires of each K^up of bobbins are car- 
ried to the divisions of a commutator, so that there are as 
many commutators and pairs of brushes as there are cir- 
cuits. 



Fw. »o. 




Lmekmuts^t*t AlUmaHni Currtnt Machine, 



Hff. The ]Lia.elia.Tif^s^e IMachine. This 
differs from the Siemens Machine in the practice of rotating 
the crowns of electro-magnets, while the armature is kept 
stationary between the crowns. The electro-magnets have 



ALTEBNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 425 

an elliptical shape, with the long diameter of the ellipse 
placed radially to the shaft of the machine. The cores are 
made up of very thin sheet-iron, for the purpose of avoiding 
undue heat, and the ventilation or circulation of air for 
cooling is well provided for. Each bobbin of the armature 
is mortised into a wooden block, as shown in Fig. 281. 
These blocks fit into openings in the drum which encircles 
the poles of the electro-magnets of the two crowns. The 




Ah Armaturt Boddin of Lachaussee" s Machine, 

ordinary machine has twelve electro-magnet poles on each 
crown, and twelve bobbins on the armature. The free ends 
of the bobbins lead to a system of twenty-four binding- 
posts, which are insulated on a plate fastened on top of the 
drum. From these binding-posts the wires to the external 
circuits are led. At these also any combination of circuits 
for intensity or tension can be made. 

While, as stated at the beginning of this Part, alter- 
nating current machines do not utilize the power applied 
to them as efficiently as do the continuous-current machines, 
they seem to have the advantage of being built of any size. 
Very large continuous current machines have not suc- 
ceeded ; the large Edison machines have not been indis- 
putably successful. But alternating current machines have 
been built recently which enable us to draw the conclusion 
that, in all probability, that kind of machines may be made 
of any size. 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

SO. Grordon's -A.lternating' CuxTPent 
IMCAcliixie. This is the largest machine yet built, and is 
capable of supplying from 5000 to 7000 Swan incandescent 
lamps of twenty candle-power each. It was constructed by 
the Telegraph Construction and Maintainance Company at 
Greenwich, England, after a model which may be followed 
in a still larger construction. This point is of great impor- 
tance, and is too often overlooked by inventors. With a 
small machine, the metallic parts may be so ai^ranged that 
they exert electrically and magnetically no deleterious 
effect, without weakening the mechanical construction to 
any considerable extent. But a machine which uses 600 to 
1000 horse-power must have its moving parts made solid 
and secure. It would be difficult to obtain the necessary 
solidity if no other metal than circuit wires were applicable 
for the armature. 

In Qordon^s machine, the field electro-magnets are 
moved while the bobbins which form the armature are sta- 
tionary. In that way the difficulty of constructing a com- 
mutator for currents of 1000 to 10000 amperes, or more, is 
avoided. 

The machine has a strong shaft, to which two disks A of 
boiler-iron are keyed. The disks are 2.67 metres in diam- 
eter, are placed back to back, and are stiffened and braced 
by plates of iron B. Figs. 282, 283, 284, and 286 illustrate 
the machine. Fig. 282 is a perspective, and 283 a side view, 
one-half in section. Fig. 284 is a longitudinal section. 

The two large disks carry a series of thirty-two electro- 
magnets, arranged concentrically near their periphery. 
The electro-magnets have polarities of alternate order. The 
magnet cores are made of wrought iron, and penetrate the 
combined disks, so that one pole is on one side of the disk, 
and the other pole on the other side. The insulated wire is 
wound on brass spools, which are slipped over the cores, 
and these latter have wedge-shaped pole-pieces of boiler 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 427 

Fw. sni 




Gorelon*s Alternating Current Machine, 



iron. The wire of the spools has a diameter of 4.7 millime- 
tres, and is provided with a double coating of cotton soaked 



428 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



in shellac and painted with asbestos paint. Layers of wood 
separate the spools from the disk. 

The armature thus constructed is rotated between two 
circular rows of stationary bobbins^ at a distance of 3 milli- 
metres from them. The bobbins are supported on each side 

Fio. 988. 




Side and Sectional View oj iiotd*fH Machim*. 



of the machine by a cast-iron frame which consists of three 
pieces, one of which is removable, as shown at the top of 
the machine in Fig. 282. When this is removed, the elec- 
tro-magnets may be reached for repairs. There are, in all, 
128 stationary bobbins, 64 on each side, and they are acted 
on inductively by 32 electro-magnets having 64 poles, so 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



429 



that there are twice as many bobbins as magnet poles. If 
the machine had the same number of bobbins as electro- 



Fie.SM. 




I,cm£iiudima2 Section 0/Gcrtbn Machine. 

magnet poles, the inductive action of one bobbin on the 
neighboring one would be so strong as to materially reduce 



430 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

the efficiency of the machine. The first machine that was 
built contained an equal nimiber of electro-magnet poles 
and bobbins ; and it was found that the inductive action on 
leaving one bobbin, reduced the number of lamps whick 
were run by a neighboring bobbin 25^, and a further 25^ 
when the circuit of the next adjacent bobbin was closed. 
This phenomenon has its cause in the inductive action 
which the bobbins exert on each other by the rapid changes 
of current. 

In order to obviate this deleterious action, Gordon re- 
duced the number of electro-magnets to one-half with great 
success. The armature bobbins are divided into two groups 
—the bobbins 1, 3, 5, 7, etc., forming one circuit, and 2, 4, 
6, 8, etc., the other circuit. These two circuits can either 
be used individually, or united in series or multiple arc. 
Each bobbin is wound with insulated copper wire 4.57 milli- 
metres diameter. The resistance of each bobbin is 0.6 ohm, 
and by connecting the 128 bobbins in multiple arc, the in- 
ternal resistance is reduced to 0.00047 ohm. 

Fig. 286 shows a portion of the ring and some of the bob- 
bins. In order to save space, the cores are made wedge- 
shape, with the small end pointing towards the shaft. They 
are each made of a piece of wrought sheet-iron bent in the 
shape of a V. The bend forms the sharp edge of the core. 
At the centre of the wedge a T of iron is welded on to give 
stability to the core, and by an extension serves at the same 
time to fasten it to the cast-iron ring by screw-bolts. Be- 
tween the core and the ring a wooden block 75 millimetres 
thick is placed. The bobbins are thereby insulated from 
the frame of the machine ; a point upon which the inventor 
lays great stress. The side of each bobbin which is towards 
the rotating crown of electro-magnets is covered with a 
German silver plate, which is fastened to an extension P 
from the iron core, and is also screwed by long screws to 
the wooden back. This sheeting serves as a protector for 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



431 



the wires of the bobbin and for ventilation through open- 
ings which are only indicated by the broken lines. The 
ends of the wire convolutions of each bobbin are connected 



Pio. 385. 




Part of Armaturt 0/ Garden Mackint. 

with two binding-posts set in the wooden backing, so that 
each bobbin may be utilized individually, or in combina- 
tions with others. 

The electro-magnets of the machine are excited by a 
special Biirgin machine. The current therefrom is con- 
ducted to the electro-magnets by means of two contact 
rings C, which are insulated on each side from the shaft 
by means of vulcanite. 

Engineering, of the 9th of March, 1883, in speaking of 
the electrical exhibition in the London Aquarium, says in 
relation to this machine : 

"The Biirgin dynamo exciting-machine is driven by a 
small 5 horse-power engine, and produces a current of 25 



432 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

amperes. The large engine which drives the alternating^ 
current nmchine, on the day of the experiment (Jan. 17th) 
gave 170 horse-power, according to a Richards' indicator ;. 
so that the total consumption of mechanical power was 175 
horse-power. The electromotive force of the machine at the 
binding-posts was 103 volts. There were 1400 Swan lamps 
burning, each having 30 ohms resistance while hot, in twa 
circuits with two lamps in series. The total resistance of the 
lamps was therefore 0.085 ohms. The resistance of the circuit 
was 0.006 ohm, and the internal resistance of the machine^ 
was 0.0075 ohm ; so the total resistance was 0.0985 ohm, or in 
round nimiber 0.1 ohm. As the tension at the binding- 
posts was 103 volts, the strength of current was ^^ = 1030^ 
amperes. 

In the photometer room the lamps showed a power of 22 
to 23 candles ; hence there were obtained 1400 x 22^ = 3150a 
candles for 175 indicated horse-power, that is 180 candles 
for each horse-power. 

The electrical energy was C x E = 103 x 1030 = 10609a 
volt-amp6res ; hence, each indicated horse-power gave 
^ \%ff^ = 606 volt-amp6res. 

Finally, as one English electrical horse-power equals 746 
volt-amperes, the useful utilized labor was m = 0.816. It 
must be noticed that this figure gives the real proportion of 
the mechanical energy indicated in the cylinder of the 
engine to the electrical energy produced by the alternating 
cuixent machine. If the energy actually transferred from 
the engine to the alternating current machine be taken into 
account, the utilization would be increased 10 per centum. "^ 

[As the total resistance of the circuit was 0.1 ohm, of 
which 0.085 was in the lamps, it follows that ^*- = .85 of 
the total electric energy was utilized in the lamps; or 
0.816 X .85 = .6936 = nearly 70 per cent, of the total mechan- 
ical energy expended was utilized at the lamps. This is a 
high duty.— K.] 



ALTERNATING CUERBNT MACHINES. 



433 



ST. The Fer^anti-ThLomson A.lter- 
natingr CiMTent IMCaeliiiie. This machine resem- 
bles the Siemens machine somewhat. The magnetic field is 
the same, being produced by two crowns of electro-magnets, 
associated so that milike poles are opposed. Fig. 286 is a 
view of this machine, which plainly shows the similarity. 
The difference lies in the armature, which is not made up 

Fi«. 886. 




Ferranti- Thomson EUctric Machint, 



of wire spools or bobbins, as in the Siemens machine, blit 
of copper strips or ribbons, bent in a zigzag shape, super- 
imposed in twelve layers, and insulated from each other by 
strips or ribbons of rubber. These copper strips, which take 
the place of the usual wire bobbins, are 12.5 millimetres 
wide and 2 millimetres thick. They are sometimes wound 
on a wooden frame. Fig. 288 shows another method of 
fastening the armature strips, which is g^ven by TF*. Thorn- 
son. K is a ring of iron, which is provided with the projec- 
19 



434 



DYNAMO-ELKCTRIC MACHINES. 

I 




Diagram ^/Ftrranti' Thcnuon Mackint, 

tions My and around these the strips W are placed in the 
manner described. The spaces between the radial strips 
are hence filled with iron which becomes magnetic through 
the influence of the electro-magnets and so the inductive 
action is strengthened. As the diagram, Fig. 288, shows, 
the radial portions of the conductor strips are equally 

Fio. 888. 



^- 






7/ /> 



I! 






» «. 



^ 







as 



w 



A rmaiurt 4(/F<trramti' Thornton Machine, 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 435 

spaced with the field-magnet poles. When, by the rotation, 
one radial part approaches a north pole, the two neighbor- 
ing radial parts approach equally a south pole ; and there- 
fore currents of opposite direction are generated in the 
several parts which join to form one current of zigzag 
course following the circuit. As the armature moves the 
distance between two magnet poles, it passes from a mag- 
netic field of one kind to that of another, so that with this 
reversal of polarity there is a reversal of the direction of 
the current in all the circuit. The alternating currents so 
produced are led to the external circuit through two con- 
tact ringis insulated on the shaft and springs bearing on the 
rings. 

** Engineering" speaks of the machine exhibited at the 
London Aquarium as follows : 

^' The machine is set up under the swimming basin and 
feeds 320 Swan lamps, which illuminate the basin and the 
restaurant gallery. It rotates 1900 times per minute, and is 
driven by two 8-inch belts, which run with a speed of 6000 
feet per minute. Notwithstanding this rapidity, the lamps 
are not sufficiently supplied ; they bum visibly more red 
than the gas-jets in the same place. It is not at present 
possible to say how much power the machine consumes, 
but it is to be plainly seen that it is much more than the 32 
horse-power which the lamps require. Each belt could 
under legitimate calculation transmit about 50 horse-power, 
and the contrast between the extent of transmission and 
the light produced is remarkable. The machine itself is too 
small to receive much power without becoming heated. A 
considerable portion of the energy absorbed can be found in 
the enormous volume of heated air which is thrown out in 
all directions by the armature. It is natural that every 
dynamo should produce a considerable draught of air, but 
we have rarely ever seen one which produced such a volume 
of current of air and so hot." 



436 PTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

This report is in peculiar contrast with the praise which 
was given the machine when it was brought into the 
market under the auspices of its inventors. Sir William 
Thomson, Prof. S. P. Thomson and Ferranti. It seems that 
with this machine the practicable velocity has been over- 
reached, so that, notwithstanding the theoretically correct 
construction, no practical success has been attained. The 
published electrical measurements are as follows : 

Reoistanoe of the armature 0.0266 ohm. 

*' '• lamp circuit 0.7785 '* 

Tension at the binding poets 125 yoUb. 

Strength of current. 156 amperes. 

Number of Swan lamps In use 800 

" " rotations of armature 1900 

Horse-power consumed 28 

Weight of armature 5.120 kilos. 

per lamp 0.016 

As seen from the report quoted from Engineering the 
power used is here stated much too low. 

The last figure is the most interesting, as it gives 16 
grammes weight of armature for one lamp. This small 
weight is used with a very intense magnetic field of force, 
which to produce requires the more wire. According to 
data given in the Electrical Review the entire wire on the 
Ferranti machine for 300 lamps weighs 290 pounds ; and on 
the Gordon machine for 7000, 6876 pounds. There are, 
therefore, for one Swan lamp on the Ferranti machine 437 
grammes of wire ; and on the Gordon machine only 348 
grammes. The Gordon machine weighs 18.3 tons, or 18300 
kilogrammes ; and the Ferranti machine weighs only 697 
kilogrammes. These figures show to the Gordon machine 
2.6 kilogrammes and to the Ferranti machine 1.98 kilo- 
grammes per Swan lamp. 

The large machines require much less electrical material, 
and their greater weight results from greater mechanical 
solidity. 



DI8K-ARMATUBE MACHINES. 



437 



[88. Sdison's Z>isk-!M;aeliliies. These ma- 
'Chines are devised to cause the conductors of the armature 
to cut the magnetic lines of force at right angles. One 
of these is shown in diagram by Figs. 289, 290, and 291, and 
is thus described : 

" The object in view is to produce a dynamo or magneto- 
electric machine the armature of which will be in the form 
of a disk, which armature will be stiff and strong, wiU not 
heat in its core in use, will permit the bringing of the polar 
extensions of the magnet or magnets close together, so as 
to form an intense magnetic field, and in which machine 




Rdit&iCt DUk-Armaiurt Mmckine. 



the inductive bars of the armature will be connected to 
generate a continuous current in one direction of high 
electromotive force, and will further be connected with the 
collector bars and with each other in multiple arc, in 
order to reduce to the minimum the internal resistance of 
the machine. 

" The naked copper inductive bars are double or in two 
parts, connected together at their inner ends, and having 
offset-arms at their outer ends for connecting with the sur- 



438 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



rounding concentric rings. A number of these double 
radial bars are arranged in the form of a disk and secured 
to a suitable hub, the bars being insulated both from the 
hub and from each other. At their inner ends the double 
bars are connected to insulated metal disks (the nearly- 
opposite double bars being connected in pairs by the disks), 
and the disks have tongues which make connection with or 
form the bars of the collector-cylinder. The core of the 
armature is constructed by winding strips of iron and paper 




Sections of Edison's A rmature, 

together, in spiral form, between such double bars, such 
core preventing the circulation of magnetic currents therein 
and the loss of energy caused by the generation of heat in 
such core. The effect is assisted by the fact that the iron 
portion of the core does not cut the lines of force at right 
angles. The polar extensions of two electro-magnets are 
arranged on each side of the disk-armature. Outside of 
the polar extensions the terminal double bar of each con- 
nected pair of double bars is connected with the initial 
double bar of another pair by concentric rings which are 



DISK-ARMATUBB MACHINES. 439 

nearly outside the magnetic field and do not cut the lines of 
force at right angles. 

"The construction is also well adapted for electro-mo- 
tors, and, whether as a motor or electrical generator, it has 
the advantage of great lateral compactness. 

''Fig. 289 is a horizontal section of the nmchine, the 
collector brushes or springs being omitted, and the mag- 
nets being broken away ; Fig. 290, a vertical section of the 
armature, and Fig. 291 a side elevation of the armature 

Flo.»l. 




EMd View of Edito9Cs Disk-Armature. 

''A is the shaft joumaled in suitable bearings. 

" B is the hub suitably secured to the shaft, and having 
attached to it the double inductive bars C, of naked copper. 
These bars are connected at their inner ends, and are in- 
sulated from the hub and from each other. The bars C 
have projecting conductors a extending to insulated metal 
disks D. The bars C are connected in pairs with the bars 
nearest a diametrically-opposite position, and each disk has 
a tongue, 6, which is connected with or forms one of the 
bars of the collector cylinder E. For ease of illustration, 



440 DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

only two of such tongues are shown in Fig. 289. The core 
F of the armature is made by winding spirally together 
strips of iron and paper. Bolts c may be employed to assist 
in securing the bars and core together. The double bars C 
have offset-arms d for making connection with the concen- 
tric rings Hy which surround the core. Each ring connects 
the terminal bar of one pair of connected opposite double 
bars with the initial bar of another pair. Hence there are 
half as many rings as bars. The polar extensions N S of 
the electro-magnets I K are brought close up to the induc- 
tive bars. 

**The bars are connected and the path of the current is 
as follows (see Fig. 291) : One portion of the current will 
pass from the negative to the positive commutator-brush 
via 1, H', 11, 2, W, 12, 6, H^, 14, 7, H«, and 16, and the other 
portion via 8, H«, 15, 6, HS 13, 4, H*, 10, 3, H», and 9." 

Another of Mr. Edison's Disk Machines is illustrated by 
Figs. 29S and 293. 

Copper disks form the inductive portion of the revolving 
armature, from which a continuous current of electricity is 
taken. These copper disks are arranged in two sets placed 
on opposite sides of an iron plate, which is of circular shape 
and forms the core of the armature. The disks are securely 
clamped together and to this central plate or core, properly 
insulating disks being placed between the separate disks 
and also next to the core. The exciting magnet has its 
polar extensions placed on opposite sides of the peculiar 
armature, and these are extended on the sides of the arma- 
ture toward the shaft of the same, the extended sides being 
beveled, so that the direct attractive force between such 
polar extensions will be small compared with that between 
the polar extensions and the core of the armature. The 
copper disks on one side of the central plate or core all have 
currents set up in the same direction, but in the opposite 
direction to those on the other side. Cross-connections are 



PI8K-ABMATURB MACHINES. 



441 



provided at the periphery of the disks^ which connect 
the disks in series, so that an electromotive force is 
generated, due to all the disks, and connections are made 
with the collector cylinder upon which bear the collector 
brushes. 

The foregoing will be better understood from the draw- 
ings. Fig. 292 is a vertical cross-section of the machine on 
the line of the armature shaft ; Fig. 293 an elevation of the 
collector end, the collector cylinder being in section. 



Fig. 




Bditofft Disk'Armaiurt Machine. 



N S are the polar extensions of the field magnet A, which 
is mounted upon a suitable base B. These polar extensions 
are hollowed out on their inner faces, forming chambers 
which inclose opposite portions of the armature and through 
which said armature revolves. The sides of the polar ex- 
tensions N S are beveled, as shown at a, so as to reduce the 
attractive force acting directly across between the polar 



442 DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

extensions. The armature is composed of an iron core C, 
which is a circular plate keyed to the shaft D, and two sets 
E F of copper disks. These disks are placed on opposite 
sides of the central plate or core C, and are insulated from 
each other and from the core by disks G of insulating mate- 
rial, preferably of paper. The disks are clamped together 
and to the core by brass screw-rings b, turning on the ends 
of the extended hub c of the core ; but the disks may be 
secured in addition by bolts passing directly through them. 
The disks have projections d e on their periphery. The 
projections of the two sets of disks are joined by cross- 
connections, so that the disks will be connected in a continu- 
ous and symmetrical series. H is the collector cylinder, to 
which the disks are connected by rods or plates /, the alter- 
nate connections of the disks with each other being shown 
as thus connected with the bars of the collector cylinder. 
The lines of force at each pole of the exciting magnet move 
between the pole and the core of the armature on each side 

of said core. The disks of each set 
cut in opposite direction on their 
opposite portions the lines of force 
from the opposite poles of the mag- 
net. Hence the currents gener- 
ated in the disks of each set flow 
all in the same direction. The 
disks of one set cut in each field 
lines of force moving in the oppo- 
co/iector. sitc dircctiou from those cut by 

disks of the other set in the same 
field. Hence the currents generated in one set of disks 
fiow in the opposite direction to those generated in the other 
set. This armature, it will be seen, has an exceedingly low 
resistance, and is compact and strong. 

Another of Mr. Edison's Disk Machines is illustrated by 
Figs. 294 and 295. 




DISK-ARMATURE MACHINES. 



443 



A series of copper disks insulated from each other are 
secured to one side of a cast-iron plate or disk which forms 
the magnetic portion or core of the armature. The copper 
disks and iron plate revolve together in chambers in the 
opposite polar extensions of an exciting magnet, such polar 
extensions being beveled on their approaching sides, so that 



Pitt. SM. 




EdiunCs Disk- A rmature Machine. 

intense magnetic fields will be formed between the polar 
extensions and opposite portions of the iron plate, and but 
little force will be exx>ended directly across between the 
poles of the magnet. The currents generated in each disk 
in the opposite fields of force fiow in the same direction, 
and the disks being all on one side of the iron plate, their 
currents all fiow the same way. To connect up such disks 
so as to produce a continuous current having a tension due 
to all the disks, exterior copper rings are used which couple 



444 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 

the disks in series. The disks are connected with the ba» 
of the collector cylinder by rods or plates passing to pro« 
jections in central openings of the disks, or to the exterior 
ring connections. 

The foregoing will be better understood from the draw- 
ings, in which Fig. 294 is a vertical section through the 

Pki. 29:5. 




End ^ Duh-AmuUnrt, 

armature and the polar extensions of the exciting magnet ; 
Fig. 295, a separate elevation of the armature from the 
collector end, the collector cylinder being in vertical sec- 
tion. 

N S are the polar extensions of the exciting magnet, 
chambered or hollowed out, as shown, to inclose opposite 
portions of the armature, and having beveled sides a, so aa 
to reduce the width of its approaching faces and reduce the 
attractive force acting directly across between the polar 
extensions. The armature has a cast-iron plate or disk B, 
mounted upon a shaft C. Secured to one side of this iron 
plate by bolts or otherwise are a number of copper disks D, 
which are insulated from each other and from the iron 
plate, preferably by means of paper disks. A number of 
copper rings or segments of rings E, are supported by the 
rim of plate B and connect the copper disks in a continuous 



MAQNBTO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



445 



series. The disks are connected with the bars of collector 
cylinder F by strips or rods h extending from the open 
centers of the disks to such collector bars.— K.] 



Fie. 8M. 




EditoiC* Magntio- Electric Machine, 



[SO. Mr. Edison has devised a novel magneto-electric 
machine, the electro-magnet of which is rotated while 
receiving current from some extraneous source. He thus 
describes it : 



446 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 

"In this machine I employ a cylinder the surface of 
which is covered with a coil of wire wound around it length- 
wise and parallel to the axis of rotation. The electric cur- 
renty passing through the coil, converts the cylinder into a 
magnet. One side of the cylinder is of north polarity and 
the opposite side is of south polarity. A shell of iron is 
employed, within which this magnetic cylinder is revolved, 
and by induction the shell becomes magnetized. Hence the 
magnetic forces in the shell revolve around the same in 
harmony with the revolving magnetic cylinder. 

Fie. 907. 




Edison* s Magneto-Electric Machine. 

** There is a space between the revolving magnetic cylin- 
der and the inside of the shell, within which space there 
are longitudinal wires connected in a peculiar manner to 
the collector, and in the wires an induced current is set 
up in consequence of the revolving magnetic forces cross- 
ing and cutting these wires as the magnetic cylinder 
revolves within the shell, and from the collector the current 
is taken to the line-wires. 

*' Fig. 296 is a plan of the magneto-electric machine com- 
plete. Fig. 297 is a cross-section of the same at the line x x. 
Fig. 298 is a plan of the revolving field magnet. Fig. 299 is 
an end view of the same. Fig. 300 is a plan of the shell 
surrounding the field magnet and the induction coil. Fig. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



447 



301 is an end view of the same. Fig. 303 is a diagram 
showing the manner of winding the induction coil, and Fig. 

302 is a diagram of the circuit connections. 



Fio. 298. 



Fig. 800. 




Fio «K). 




Fig. SOI. 




d 



Details of Edison's MagMsto-Eltetric MachiHc. 



" The shaft a is provided with a cylinder 6 of iron. It 
may be either solid or hollow, and made of cast-iron or 
coiled iron wire. The same is wound with a parallel coil of 
insulated wire, the wire passing from the shaft radially, 
then along one side of the cylinder, across the other end. 



448 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



back again on the other side and across the end, and so on 
until the entire surface of the cylinder is covered with wires 
that are parallel, or nearly so, to the axis of the cylinder. 
One end of this insulated wire passes along the shaft in a 
groove to the insulated ring a! and the other is connected to 
the collector spring or brush n that is insulated upon a 
disk g affixed to and rotating with the shaft a. The other 
collector spring x is connected to the ring d upon the 
shaft a. The spring d! rests against the ring d, and to it the 
line-wire 3 is connected, and the spring g' rests against 



Fto "^9. 




the ring a', and to it the ground or 
return wire 4 is connected, or vice 
versa, 

Fio.808. 

1 ' 




^ 9 

Winding of EditonU Magneto-Electric Mack ine, 

" It is to be understood that this magneto-electric ma- 
chine may be employed in a circuit containing electric 
lights, or any other instrument or device operated by elec- 
tricity to which the current generated may be adapted. 

" The shaft a is mounted in bearings or a frame A, and 
revolved by competent power. The shell I is made of coiled 
iron wire or of iron rings secured together by bolts 6 ; and 
between the rings there are sheets of paper or other insu- 
lating material to separate the rings and prevent the mag- 
netic currents circulating in the direction of the axis of 
rotation ; but the rings are each magnetized by induction 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 449 

from the magnetic cylinder b, and the lines of magnetic 
force radiate from the cylinder to the rings, and as the cyl- 
inder b revolves within the shell, these lines of magnetic 
force are moving around rapidly with the magnetic cyl- 
inder. 

'^ In magneto-electric machines the most potential cur- 
rents are set up in wires that are moved across the lines of 
magnetic force. I therefore place longitudinal wires in the 
space between the revolving magnetic cylinder and the 
shell, so that such wires are crossed by the lines of mag- 
netic force as the same revolve. 

''The induction coil is composed of the parallel wires s 
upon the surface of the thih cylinder t Such wires cross 
the end of the cylinder t at the opposite end to where the 
collector bars u are placed, and at the collector such wires 
are united to the circular range of bars k, that are insu- 
lated, and upon which the springs n and x rest. 

" The wire of the parallel induction helix is substantially 
endless, and it is wound with reference to obtaining a con- 
tinuous current. The diagram. Fig. 302, illustrates the 
manner of winding the wires. The number of parallel 
coils may be more or less than that shown ; but I find the 
object desired can be attained the best by using an even 
number of parallel coils longitudinally of the case and an 
odd number of collector plates. The current set up in 
coils within the magnetic field of the north pole will be all 
in one direction, and the currents set up in the coils within 
the field of the south pole will be all in the other direction. 
I wind the wires in such a manner that, while the wire is 
continuous and the current flowing through the whole of it, 
the current will pass by two wires of the induction coil to 
one collector plate and then away, and will enter by an 
opposite collector plate and pass by two wires out into 
the coil and circulate through the same to the other col- 
lector plate. Suppose the springs to rest upon collector 



450 DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

plates a and e. The current will flow toward a from wires 
1 and 6 and away from e by wires 12 and 7. By following 
the arrows it will be found that the entire coil is a com- 
plete circuit, in which the parallel portions of the wires 
in the south field of magnetic influence have a current 
energized in one direction and in the north field in the 
other direction, thus obtaining the dynamic effect, and 
there is no break or pulsation of the current. The springs 
touch one collector before leaving another. 

"Of course the current is reversed in the parallel por- 
tions of the wires successively. For instance, the current 
in 7 and 14 is reversed as the magnets and brushes travel 
around together. As the spring passes from e to d, the cur- 
rent in 14 is reversed and passes out from d by 14 and to 7 
in the reverse direction and to 12, as before. As the spring 
passes from a to gr, the current in 8 and 7 is reversed. It 
passes from 6, as before, and, crossing, is reversed in 1, and 
returning in 8 in opposite direction is taken off by g. The 
dotted arrows indicate these successive changes of direc- 
tion, whereby the currents are made to flow by two wires 
to each collector in succession from the entire magnetic 
field. The current will flow from spring gr' through a', 
thence through the parallel coils of wires around the cylin- 
der b to the collector n, thence by the bar upon which it 
rests along the parallel induction coil at one side of the 
cylinder tj returning along the other side to the collector 
bar and by the spring x to the ring d and spring d' to the 
line. 

"It is to be borne in mind that the parallel induction 
coil Sy cylinder ft, and collector bars u remain stationary, 
and the collector springs n x revolve around the bars li, 
being turned by the shaft a, and the collector springs are 
to be located with reference to the revolving magnetic 
cylinder, so as to take off the current at the place of great- 
est energy. The current will be continuous, or nearly so. 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 451 

and travel in one direction. There will, however, some- 
times be a sparking on the collector bars when the circuit 
of the parallel induction coil is interrupted ; but this will be 
lessened by having the collector springs bent to rest on more 
than one collector bar. 

'^ It will be apparent that the shell and parallel induction 
coil may be revolved if the magnetic cylinder remains sta- 
tionary or revolves in the opposite direction ; and I remark 
that the cylinder supporting the parallel induction coil s 
may be of any suitable material, but I prefer and use vul- 
canized fiber. 

"The parts of this machine are not liable to become 
heated under ordinary circumstances of use, because the 
wires are not wound one on the other, and the atmosphere 
has an opportunity to circulate. I however apply a fan in 
some instances upon the shaft a within a case communi- 
cating with the internal portions of the machine, so as to 
induce a current of air through the same.*' — K.] 

[OO. £[oelilia,ixseii'» Disk ]\i]a.cliiiies« 

Wm. Hochhausen, whose dynamos we have described on 
pages 277 to 298, has invented some novel constructions of 
disk machines, which we illustrate in Figs. 304, 306, 
and 306. 

The top part of Fig. 304 is a longitudinal section, and the 
bottom part a transverse section of one of these machines 
which he has put to practical use. B^ and B^ represent 
annular iron frames, to which are attached the electro- 
magnetic cores C C^. These latter have a sector-shaped 
cross-section, as shown in the lower figure. They are six- 
teen in number, and the poles are alternated circularly, and 
opposite ones are placed on the two sides of the disk arma- 
ture. In the intense magnetic field so constituted, the 
armature is rotated. This is made up of pieces of sheet- 
copper, cut in the eight-armed star-like form shown. Sev- 



452 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



eral of these pieces are cut out and are connected together 
by cutting each one at a given point, and connecting the 
terminating-end of one piece to the beginning-end of the 
next piece by hard-soldering, so that they are all connected 
together in series somewhat like the spiral shown at 4 in 




Hockhausen^s Disk-M(uhine. 



the figure and made of the cut flat-rings also shown at 3 in 
the figure. A like spiral of insulating material, say paper, 
is made, and used between the layers of the copper spiral 
for insulation. The whole is then closed up and bolted 
together and to the hub-fianges D by the insulated bolts m. 
The two extreme ends are then taken by the wires F and F* 
to the rings n n, from which the alternating currents are 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



453 



<5arried to the external circuit. A commutator F and 
brushes Q are provided so that the armature may be con- 
nected in series with the fleld-magnet coils for self -excita- 
tion. A machine of this description, charged by a Hoch- 

Fke. 80(L 




Hockkauten^s Disk- Armature Machiiu. 

hausen Dynamo, Fig. 166, with a current of 10 amperes, had 
the following dimensions and performed as stated : 

Total Weight 500 pounds. 

Weight of Copper in Armature 26 *' 

Armature of Twelve Plates of Copper No. 15, B. & S. gauge. 

Electromotive Force 00 volts. 

Current 800 amperes. 

Resistance of Armature 0.016 ohm. 

Resistance of Magnet Coils, in Series 4.12 ohms. 

Supplied Swan Lamps 250 

Fig. 306 shows a cross-section and Fig. 305 a longitudi- 
nal section of a variation of this machine, in which the 
field magnets are placed radially to the axis instead of par- 



454 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



allel thereto. One plate only is rotated between the op- 
posed poles of two adjacent series, but as there are three or 
more series of magnets, the connections between the plates 
are made as shown in the small diagram. A commutator 





Hoekhauten^s Disk-Armature MacktMt, 



and contact wheels are provided, as in case of the other 
variety, so that a portion of the currents may be used to 
energize the field magnets, while the remainder goes to 
supply lamps in the external circuit. — K.] 



01« The £:ipliiiistoiie a.iid Vincent; 
]M[a.cliiiie exhibited at the Crystal Palace in London 
excited some interest. The inductor, or armature, is a 



UNIPOLAR MACHINE. 455 

Qramme ring, except that its core is not of iron, but made 
of papier mache ; the winding is also peculiar. The mag- 
netic field is a composite one like that of the Qiilcher ma- 
chine. There are six north and six south poles which alter- 
nate on the circumference of the ring. They are formed by 
electro-magnets which are set radially to the ring and give 
a peculiar aspect to the machine. The magnetic field is 
strengthened by electro-magnets in the interior of the 
armature, as in the Jiirgensen machine. These are fastened 
on a spindle within the ring armature, and are twelve in 
number, with poles alternating circumf erentially and placed 
on radial lines opposite the external poles of like name. 
In this way a very intense annular magnetic field is pro- 
duced, in which the Gramme armature is rotated. Six 
brushes are used to take off the currents. 

The inventors say that the machine gives a very high 
eflKciency, and that they can be built of any size. As to 
this point, we will have to wait for further experiments to 
be made. The machine has certain difficult details of con- 
struction, as, for instance, in the secure fastening of the 
armature so that it may move through the limited annular 
space without rubbing against the inner or outer electro- 
magnet poles. The efficiency of a machine, on the whole, 
is proportional to the weight of copper which forms the 
convolutions of the armature, and especial attention must 
be given to this point in the construction of large machines. 
And further, the large number of brushes are not a recom- 
mendation for the machine. In this respect the alternating 
current machines made by OordoUy which have no brushes 
at all, but conduct the current directly from the armature 
to the external circuit, have a great advantage over all 
other machines. 

Oa. Tlie TJnipolar- IMEAcliiiie. The first 
dynamo-electric machine was unipolar. Though neglected 



456 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



until now, it has lately come to the fore. Faraday showed 
in 1831 that a copper disk rotated between two magnetic 
poles produced a continuous electric current. He also 
showed that the same effect was produced when an electro- 
magnet was used in place of the permanent one, and that a 
conductor revolved around one pole of a magnet had a cur- 
rent of one direction generated in it. 

"^'O. 807 




Unipolar Machine of Siemens 6* Halske, 

The form of Faraday's machine is not practical for sev- 
eral reasons, and therefore has not come into use. Only 
very recently Siemens & Halske have succeeded in con- 
structing a unipolar machine which has a possible chance 
for technical uses. It is shown in Fig. 307. The machine 
has for inductors, or armatures, two copper cylindrical 
tubes which are slotted longitudinally in order to avoid 



UNIPOLAR MACHINE. 457 

deleterious extra currents ; and the inner and outer surfaces 
of the tubes are presented to magnetic surfaces. 

The inner planes are the limbs of a U-shaped electro- 
magnet. Another electro-magnet core is placed between 
these tubes, and each of its poles is made to almost surround 
one or the other of the upper tubes. Each tube, in revolv- 
ing around an inner magnetic pole, moves through the 
magnetic field between that pole and the outer one which is 
of opposite polarity. 

The currents delivered by this machine are of very low 
tension, about 4 or 5 volts, but of great intensity, suitable 
for galvanoplastic operations. The tubes are cut longitudi- 
nally in strips which are electrically connected in series by 
contact rings and brushes. 

Other so-called unipolar machines have been devised by 
Tarley, E. L. Voice and Ball, but they have not yet attained 
any technical importance. 

In the foregoing pages we have discussed almost all of 
the more important dynamo and magneto-electric machines. 
In making our selection we have been guided by the fol- 
lowing-named requirements : Great historical or theoretical 
interest ; the new in principle ; and extensive technical ap- 
plication. ' We have neglected a large number of machines 
from kbsence of these requirements, and because they have 
not yet emerged from the slight requirements for patent- 
ability. 

In the following section we shall among other things 
classify the machines, and it will be shown that from the 
apparent confusion but a few types can be shown. 



PART VII. 

THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

The method of action of a given dynamo-electric ma- 
chine is dependent upon a great number of conditions, so 
much so as to make it impossible to reason a priori on its 
eflSciency. Hence all theories based simply on analytical 
inductions are to be avoided, and only those to be consid- 
ered which are based upon experience and the results olv 
tained by using the machine in question. A great number 
of measurements have been made of a great number of 
machines, but the data gained refer only to the individual 
machines, and it is impossible to say what is due to the 
individuality and what is due to the machines in conmion. 
A great service to science was rendered by Dr. O. Frolich 
when he undertook, in the establishment of Siemens & 
Halske, to ascertain the desired facts by instituting a num- 
ber of experiments with many machines, and with many 
variations of conditions such as are necessary for a knowl- 
edge of the theory of their action. These experimental 
data, which have become foundational and indispensable 
for understanding the theory of dynamo machines, were 
obtained in the summer of 1880, and were published in die 
Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift and in other publications. 
The theory which Frolich based upon his experimental 
results has since been generally adopted, and in the follow- 
ing pages we shall emphasize the main points. Besides 
FrolicKs an extended theory has been propounded by Marcel 
Deprez. At first it seemed that the latter deviated ma- 



THEOBY OF DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 459 

terially from Frolich, but from late publications it seems 
that Deprez also accepts it. He only selects a somewhat 
different f orm, which is perhaps better adapted to his pur- 
pose. Deprez has formulated his theory with special rela- 
tion to the transmission of power ; and we will therefore 
give our attention to his theory also in the proper place^ 
giving the first place to FrolicVs theory. 

03. Fropoirtlons for- I>yiia.iiio«£:iec- 
tric E2q[i].ilil>]:*iiuii. "If Ohm's law be applied to a 
magneto-electric machine (machine with permanent mag- 
nets) connected with an external resistance, this formula is 
obtained : 

1. C7 = ^^. 

C represents the current (intensity) ; v the number of 
rotations ; R the total resistance ; n the number of convolu- 
tions of the armature ; and Jf, Frolich defines as the pro- 
portion of the electromotive force to the number of rota- 
tions, and calls it the ''effective magnetism" This last 
term is the sum of the electromotive force which the per- 
manent magnet and the iron of the armature exert upon 
one convolution of the armature during one rotation. The 
same formula also applies to dynamo-electric machines, but 
in this case it is necessary to add, as it produces its own 
magnetism, this formula : 

2. M = f{Ch 

while in the case of the magneto machine M is almost a 
constant value. The formula 1 is at the same time the 
same as the dynamo-electric equilibrium ; for at the time 
of starting the machine, that is, at the time of commence- 
ment of current, before arriving at the permanent con- 
dition, the current produced by the magnetism momentarily 

present, — ^r- is always greater than the current necessary 
to keep up that magnetism, so the values of the two cur- 



460 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

rents are only then equal when the stationary condition 
has been attained, as in the dynamo-electric equilibrium. 
The equation 1, written in this form, 
C _ C _v 
n'M" f{C) ^ B' 

contains the substance of this statement. The strength of 
the current is only a function of the proportion of the num- 
ber of rotations to the total resistance. This statement 
applies to all dynamo-electric machines, and for any desired 
position of the commutator, and hence, is the foundation 
equation for these machines. 

The equation 1 also accounts for the individual working- 
capacity of any machine. 

The only quantity which defines the individuality of a. 
machine is the product of the eflfective magnetism, Jf, and 
the number of convolutions, n, of the armature. If this 
latter number be given, and the effective magnetism as 
the function of force of current for a certain machine and 
certain positions of the commutator be known, the strength 
of current can always be calculated from the number of 
rotations and total resistance. 

Equation 1 also shows what shape this function must have 
in order to make the machine as serviceable as possible. 

If the effective magnetism was simply proportional to 
the strength of the current, equation 1 would have no 
application, as in such a case there is generally no sta- 
tionary condition. The current would grow infinitely. 
Dynamo-electric equilibrium, hence, only takes place when 
the magnetism differs in proportion from the strength of 
current, which, in reality, is always the case. If we put 
nM = cC — 0(0), in which case ^(C) denotes the aberration^ 
then equation 1 becomes 

£_ 1 

n"^ Hcy 



THEOKY OF DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 461 

Therefore it follows, that for a certain strength of current, 
the smaller the number of rotations the smaller will be the 
variation of the magnetism from the proportion. A dynamo- 
electric machine is, hence, the more nearly perfect the nearer 
the effective magnetism is in proportion to the strength of 
current. 

O^. rreBtingr the E:qiia.tion or £:qiiilil>-» 
riiun. One of the largest-size dynamo-electric machines 
made by Siemens & Halske (model D^) was used in extensive 
experiments made to test the truth of the main equation by 
varying as much as possible the number of rotations and 
the resistance, at the same time measuring the respective 
strengths of current. 



WnfD- 


Magnet Corks. 


AHMATURS. 


Total 
Rebibt- 

ANCB OF 

Machiiveb 
a-\-s 


Average 
Distance 
of the 
Conyola- 
tions from 
the iron. . 

r 


Number 

of 
Convolu- 
tions. 

m 


Resist- 
ance. 

S 


1 

1 Number 
' of 
Convolu- 

tiODB. 

n 


Resist, 
ance. 

a 


I 

II 
III 


mm 
10.5 
21 
14 


456 

856 

1960 


U 

0.290 
0.580 
4.14 


288 

288 

1296 


U 

0.145 
0.145 1 

3.00 ' 

1 


U 

0.435 
0.725 
7.14 



The measures of the currents were made by an electro- 
dynamometer such as described in Art. 21, page 78. Its 
constant was determined by a copper voltameter. The 

measurements of current are expressed in the unit — »— ff- > 

in which the Daniell after Kohlrausch is defined as that 
electromotive force which in one Siemens unit produces a 



462 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

current which will deposit 1.38 grammes of copper in an 
hour. The machine was tested under three different sets of 
convolutions, and gave the data on the preceding page. 

The external resistance consisted of a system of iron 
ribbons, which were spread out openly in the air, so as to 
avoid heating as much as possible. The resistance of these 
ribbons were tested each time. 

The position of the brushes at the commutator could be 
changed as desired. This position was so chosen in every 
experiment that the current was at the maximum. 

Figs. 308 and 309 present a graphic representation of the 

V 

results of these experiments. J is a function of ^^^ • In the 

curve III, the values of -™. are increased ten times. It is 

shown from these experiments that in the main the strength 

of current is only a function of -™. or p- [In this diagram 

and the following, J =■ C or current strength or intensity, 
and W= B OT resistance. And these values will be ex- 
pressed in the text as C and R, in order to make them con- 
form to Ohm's law as expressed in English, E = CB. The 
expression in German is E = JW.—K.] If v and B were 
variable, as both influence independently the current 
strength, they could not be represented by a single curve. 
The representation by a single curve suflSces for the record 
of the observations, because the deviations from the curve 
were no more than the errors of exi>eriment. 

However, this is not strictly correct. If C were but a 

V 

function of -g, a certain strength of current would stand 

for a definite position of the collector, and for definite values 
for V and JB, so that the current would not change equally 
with the number of rotations and resistance. Neither is 
this strictly the case ; for if v and B are both equally in- 
creased, the collector brushes must be turned a little in the 



THEORY OF D YN AMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 463 



direction of rotation of the armature^ in order to obtain the 
same strength of current as before. This phenomenon. 



i 
I 

t 









p- 






c. 




O -5 


■• 






















^ 

V 














1 


































\\ 














^ 






















^ 


s 








V 


\ 












^ 


^ 










\\ 














^ 

x 


r 








V 


< 


. 












^ 






* 


\ 


P, \ 










^ 






^. 


























i. 






\, 
















4 


K 








\\\ 
















\ 










S!i - 
















\ 








\ 
















\ 






{ 


r 


\ 














s 










\ 














\ 








1 
















\ 


{ 






1 


> 
















\ 






1 


\. 
























\ 
















\ 








< 
















\ 








\ 


[ . 














\ 


i 








\ 
























\ 



r 

s 



which would seem to indicate a tardiness in magnetism in 
the armature during rotation is practically of little influ- 
ence ', therefore we leave it unnoticed in the following con- 



464 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

siderations, though in experimenting it must be always 
taken into account when the collector is put in position. 
[In the more modem machines, wherein larger or more 
massive iron cores are used in the armatures, as in the Wes- 
ton Shunt- Wound Incandescent Light Machines, the neces- 
sity for changing the position of the brushes relative to the 
collector is not met, owing to conditions considered in the 
description of that machine.— E.] 

OS. Deductions fx*oni the !M!a.iii ESqua.-^ 
tion. By the experiments just mentioned, it is decided 
that the strength of current of a dynamo-electric machine 
is only dependent upon the proportion of the velocity to the 
resistance, and thereby the main equation 



c = ^(,J) 



is proven correct. This proportion of dependence gives us 
the current curve, and as soon as we have determined this 
experimentally, we can answer all questions which are put 
in regard to the machine. These questions may refer to 
strength of current, electromotive force, effective magnet- 
ism, velocity, and resistance. Between these five values 
there are three equations : 

Ohm's law, E = CB. 

The current curve, ^ ^ "^(^s)' 

1 E 
The effective magnetism. Jtf = - x — • 

If, therefore, two of the five values be given, the others 
may be calculated therefrom, and the theory of dynamo 
machines be completely solved. It is, however, in practice 
a source of great delay and often impracticable to obtain 
the current curve, owing to the series of experiments which 



THEORY OF DTN AMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 4G5 

must be made under the greatest possible variations of ve- 
locities. But it is only necessary to experiment within the 
limits which occur in practice. The strengths of current 
which are used in practice have moderate value^ and are 
neither very weak nor strong enough to tax the machine to 
its maximum capacity. 

It is now very important that the current curve should 
deviate but a little from a straight line, such as is shown in 
the diagram^ Fig. 310, taken from a Siemens machine. This 



FM. 810. 




FriflictCt Current Curve, 

property of the current curve furnishes the means for ma- 
terially simplifying the theory. This simplified theory is 
then only valid within the limits for medium strengths of 
currents. 

Therefore in this case we replace the current curve by a 
straight line ; then within those limits the strength of cur- 
rent is a linear function of 



»J; also C=l(n^-a), 



in which a and b are constants which have definite mean- 
ing : a is the number of dead rotations. As long as the 

number of rotations v is so small that -^ is not greater than 

a, the machine does not work. This is because under the 



466 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



small number of rotations the strength of current produced 

is not enough to impart to the field electro-magnets a 

strength of mag^ietism exceeding the residual magnetism. 

In Fig. 310, O S is the current curve, and A B the straight 

line which represents the limits before mentioned; then 

OA = a. For b retain 

nv 



— a 



C 



and calculate as follows 



nv 



the value of -^ is determined for 



any value, C, of the current strength ; then a is known and 
b can be calculated, and thereby the position of the straight 
line A B is determined, and with it the entire character of 
the machine. 

We will at first investigate the change of the current 
strength when the number of rotations remain the same 
and the resistance in the current circuit is changed. This 
dependence is illustrated by Fig. 311. The curve is a branch 



Fie. 811. 



Fro. 813. 




-^r W 



Dep€Md4nc€ ^ Current Strength 
u^on ReHstamce, 



-w 



Dependence o/ Tension or Eiectrometive 
Force upon Resistance, 



of a hyperbola, and shows that with small variations of the 
resistance great changes in the strength of current are pro- 
duced. The curve cuts the axis on which the resistances 
are placed at a point at which 



i? = 



nv 



THEORY OF DYNAHO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 467 

thereby showing that for every velocity of rotation there is 
an external resistance under which the machine does not 
work. 

rte.na. 




The Working Magnetism. 

The electromotive force E is, imder the same conditions, 
a linear function of R ; then there are the equations^ 

E^ CRy 



£ = ^ (nv — oJB). 



This line is given in Fig. 312. 

The dependence of the effective magnetism, M, upon the 
strength of current is much more complicated. 



06« The dependence of the effective magnetism upon 
the strength of current is illustrated by the curves V, VI, 
Vn, Fig. 313, respectively, for the convolutions I, II, III ; 



468 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 

the eflfective magnetism being represented by ordinates, 
and the strength of current by abscissaB. This dependence 
is characterized by the eflEective magnetism being propor- 
tional to the strength of current at the beginnings but these 
continually deviate from this proportion, and asymptotically 
pass over to a maximum. For still stronger currents, the 
magnetism may even sink below this maximum, for when 
the cores are magnetized to the maximum, the effect of the 
current upon the magnetism of the armature acts, or tends 
to move the lines of force and weaken the magnetism, so 
that the entire effective magnetism must decrease. How- 
ever, this takes place only for strengths of current which 
much exceed those in practical use. If we, therefore, confine 
ourselves to the circumstances of daily practice, we can 
assume that the effective magnetism finally attains a con- 
stant maximum. We then obtain a curve of the form 
shown in Fig. 314. This agrees with our main equation. 
From it arises 

Jf = - (7 — , and by elimination of ^ 
C 



Jf = 



a + b'C 



Fio. 814. 




Dtpindtncg of Magngthm upon Sirtngth o/Currtnt. 

Again, when if and C are considered variable, the equa- 
tion is that of the branch of a hyperbola, as is shown in 
Fig. 314. The equation also gives us another meaning of a 



THEORY OF D YN AM O-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 469 

and b. If C is very small, so that a is much larger than 
b C, then we almost have 

C 

but a is the proportion of the current to the effective mag- 
netism for very weak currents. If, inversely, C is very 
large, so that a is much smaller than b C, then 

T is the limit value of the effective magnetism for very 

strong currents, i. e. , for the maximum of magnetism. These 
assumptions only serve for examples, because our theory is 
not valid for either very weak or very strong currents. 

The curves found for the effective magnetism, as given 
above, now show that the maximum which is so deleterious 
to the working of the machine takes place comparatively 
early in the above-named constructions, and it remains to 
show the reason for their early occurrence. 

It is to be supposed that the cause lies in the magnetizing 
action of the current from the armature wires. For this 
action is in opposition to the magnetizing power of the mag- 
net limbs, and consequently the magnetic axis of the arma- 
ture is turned and its current-producing power is weaikened, 
and the effective magnetism on the whole is diminished. 
The maximum of effective magnetism must take place, 
therefore, sooner than it would without this influence. 

[The maximum of effective mag^ietism is attained earlier 
and is less in strength with small masses of iron in the field 
magnets and armatures than with large. The Siemens 
and Gramme machines with which these experiments were 
tried are defective in this particular of massiveness. — K.] 

In order to separate the opposing influences to effective 
magnetism, namely the magnetizing forces of the coils of 
the field magnet limbs and that of the armature coils, the 



470 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC HACHINBS. . 

current from a second dynamo was sent through the field 
magnet coils, md the armature circuit was closed through 
a high resistance. The armature was then rotated and the 
difFerence of potential at its poles was measured by means 
of a torsion galvanometer (page 84). The collector brushes 
were set on the maximum of the difFerence of potential, 
and this was found to be almost at the theoretical points, 
namely, on the line which bisects the line of magnetism, 
i. e., on the line of neutrality. The effective magnetism was 
obtained by dividing the electromotive force, or potential 
difference at the poles by the nimiber of convolutions on the 
armature. 

These experiments, carried out for all convolutions of the 
field magnets, gave results which are expressed with suf- 
ficient accuracy by the formula of interpolation, 

C 



if = 



a + 6C7 



We compile these f ormulsB in the following table, desig- 
nating the effective magnetism with current in the arma- 
ture by if, and that without current in the armature by if'. 

Under winding I an interpolation formula is first given 
for if, which correctly represents the effective magnetism 
of the entire run, except for the start which has no prac- 
tical value. 



if = 



Winding I. 
C 



26600 + 367C7 + 14.3C» 
for 20 < C < 50 : 
C 



if = 



8070 4- 1440(7 
if^, = 0,000694; 
C 



ir = 



14400 = 10400 
ir^ = 0,000962. 



THSOBY OF DYNAMO-BLBCTKIC MACHINB8. 471 

Winding n. 

^ " 5180 + 1310C* 
Jf.« = 0,000763; 

31^ C^ 

"" 9100 + lOlOC' 

JT^ = 0,000990. 

Winding HI. 

y_ C 

"" 3200 -h 1380C* 

Jf«. = 0,000726 ; 

j^_ C^ 

— 6100 + 930C* 

M^ = 0,001080. 

From these it is evident how strongly the action of the 
current in the armature depresses the maximum. This is 
for all the windings about one-quarter of the values. The 
coefficients &, which determine the maximum in the various 
windings, are but little varied; the coefficients a, the 
reciprocal values of which form an expression for the 
"power of the winding,*' however, show strong variations. 

OT'a Oompa,i*isoii of* ]I>yiia.mo-decti*ie 
^^vitli. ]^a,gTieto-decti:*ie ]M!a,eliiiies. The 

main advantage of djnamos above magnetos is in the 
strength of magnetism. It can be assumed that four times 
the weight of iron must be employed in magneto machines 
than in dynamo machines to produce the same strength of 
magnetic field. Consequently the latter are smaller, 
cheaper, and more simple in construction. This advantage 
is opposed by disadvantages. The magnetism must be kept 
up by expenditure of current which continually absorbs 
mechanical energy while at work, which is not the case 
with magnetic machines. In order to produce a definite 



472 



DTNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



current in a given external reBistance, the dynamo consumes 

more power than the mag^ieto. 

Another difference is formulated as follows : 

With the magneto machine the strength of current is 

C = JnJf. 
With the djnamo machines it is 

If the current curves be drawn for both machines, C 

being the ordinate and -^ the abscissa, the magneto machine 

will give a straight line from zero, while the dynamo will 
also give a straight line, but which starts from a point on 
the abscissa axis and cuts the magneto line at another 
point. Therefrom it can be concluded that there is a veloc- 
ity for each machine at which they give equal currents. 
But the current of the dynamo grows more rapidly. In 



Fig. 816. 



Fw.Oft. 





DtpentUnct o/Currtni Strength 
upon Numbtr 0/ Rttationt and Rttittana. 



DtpemUnc* o/Currtni Strtngtk 
upon Rgtittanc9, 



Fig. 315 the whole line corresponds to that of the dynamo 
and the dotted line to that of the magneto machine. 

If C and R are only considered as variable, equilateral 
hyperbolas are obtained in both cases, which again cut each 



THEORY OF DTNAMO-ELECTRIO MACHINES. 473 

other at that pointy at which both machines give the same 
strength of current. And again, the curve of the dynamo 
cuts the ^bscissa axis at a point which is determined by the 
dead rotations ; while the other curve does not do that, but 
asymptotically approaches the abscissa axis. 

From this it will be seen that the total difference be- 
tween the two machines lies in the dead rotations of the 

Fm. 817. 




TA4 Se/ara/^/y Excited Dynamo. 



dynamo. If this condition could be removed, the curves 
ivould approach each other continually, and as their num- 
ber increases the curves recede continually. The effect of 
the dead rotations is that the dynamo is much more sensi- 
tive to variations in resistance and velocity than is the 
magneto. This property is advantageous when it is desira- 
ble to increase the current as much as possible ; and is dis- 



474 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



advantageous when the velocity is small and resistance 
great. 

In making practical use of electricity, this condition can 
never be entirely avoided, either one or the other extreme 
happens, and it is a constant endeavor to suppress them. 

The advantages of both magneto and dynamo machines 
are combined when the field magnets are excited from 

Fm. 818. 




7%# Shnnt Dynamo. 



another source ; for instance, another dynamo machine in 
an independent circuit, as is done in the cases of the large 
alternating - current machines of Siemens, Gordon, and 
others. (See Fig. 317.) This arrangement has the disad- 
vantage of the necessary use of two machines for gener- 
ating one current. A similar effect is arrived at by an 
arrangement which WTieatstone first discovered, and which 



THEORY OF DTN AMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 475 

consists in including the coils of the field magnet in a 
branch or derived circuit, as shown at 6 d c in Fig. 318, 
instead of in the main circuit. For exciting the field mag- 
nets, only a small percentage of the total current is usually 
derived from the main circuit a. The convolutions consist 
of a long wire of small diameter and much resistance, so 
that the fiuctuations in the main circuit have almost no 
effect on the electro-magnet. But the mmiber of dead rota- 
tions are much increased. This arrangement is adopted in 
the recent Brush [? — K.], Edison, and Gulcher machines. 
[This is especially noticeable in the latest Weston Ma- 
chines.— K.] 

We have now presented the most important points of 
FrolicKa theory, and will proceed to give the theory of 
Marcel Deprez. 

FrolicVa theory makes use, as a foundation, of the so- 
called current curve which constitutes the connection 
between the strength of current and the velocity of rotation 
of the armature of the machine. 

Deprez also starts from a similar curve, which has 
another meaning, and which he calls the '' characteristic 
curve.'* 

OS. ]Marcel I>eprez'H Charactertstlc 
Curve. Break the connection between the armature 
and field electro-magnet circuits of a dynamo-electric ma- 
chine ; conduct through the field-electro-magnet circuit a 
current of known strength from another machine ; rotate 
the armature at a definite speed or velocity, and then meas- 
ure the tension E of the induced current. If the current 
from the extra machine through the field-electro-magnets 
be varied, the magnetic field will have correspondingly 
varying intensities. A given tension E at the binding- 
posts of the armature will correspond to each intensity C of 
the current passed through the coils of the field magnets. 



476 



BYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Let it be supposed that the velocity of rotation of the arma- 
ture remains the same during the other variations. If now, 
in a diagram^ C is taken as the abscisea and E as the ordi- 
nates, a curve will be obtained from these different values, 
the form of which depends upon the construction of the 
machine, and which Deprez calls the " characteristic curve." 
The connection between the armature and field electro- 
magnets is now restored, and the armature rotated with the 
same velocity as before. The machine now acts as a seriea 









Fio. 819. 






Y 


/ 










/ 


/ 




/ 


D 


B 


^ 









) 


I \ 









Dtprn^t CharacttriHic Curv*. 

dynamo or dynamo-electric machine, and a certain strength 
of current C is produced, which now also excites the field 
magnets. The curve constructed as above, and shown in 
Fig. 319, shows that the strength of current corresponds to 
the abscissa O F, and the tension to the ordinate F Q, and 
this then is the tension which is set up with definite velocity 
of rotation and corresponding strength of current. 

This characteristic curve is the foundation of Depre^s^ 
theory, as we will proceed to show. Previously, however, 
in order to prevent misunderstanding, we will present a 
criticism. Frdlich has shown, in his previously described 
experiments, that we must take into consideration whether 
the armature is traversed by a current, because the induc- 
tive action of a magnetic armature upon the field electro* 



THEORY OF D YN AMO -KLECTR IC MACHINES. 477 

magneis changes the magnetic field of the machine. 
Frolich has endeavored to show by his extensive measure- 
ments that the intensity of the magnetic field of the 
machine is decreased 20J? by this inductive action. Deprez 
debates this large infiuence ; and herein lies the difference 
between their two theories. 



OO. The Theory of the Dynamo IViia- 
chine. If the electromotive force E and the strength of 
current Care known, the resistance can easily be calculated 



C X R,otR = ^ 



by the application of Ohm^s law, E 

= ^-J = tan G O F (Fig. 319). The total resistance is 

thus expressed by the tangent of an angle which can easily 
be graphically constructed. In this way it is possible to 



Fn. 880. 




A BTT 

TAt Ckaracterutic Curve /or DifferttU Vdocititt. 

readily solve by a graphic method all problems relative to 
the dynamo-electric machine. If, for example, we start 
with a definite resistance and diminish it continually, the- 
line O Q, by the inclination of which the resistance is 
measured, will incline more and more in the direction O C. 
If the values G F and tangent G F are compared with 



478 DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

each other, it will be seen that the tension increases rapidly 
at first, then grows more slowly, and then finally remains 
constant. 

If, on the other hand, in the graphic illustration (Fig. 319), 
we increase the resistance, the line O G has a tendency to 
turn towards the axis F, and it will in its movement cut 
the curve nearer and nearer to its beginning O, and at the 
position O D will be at a tangent to it. At this moment the 
machine will be without current. This means that there is 
a certain resistance for the machine at which the strength 
of current is at zero. This is connected with the dead 
rotations. 

Hereinbefore the velocity of rotation has been assumed 
to be constant, and the characteristic curve is only valid 
for this constant velocity v. If it is desirable to designate 
it from another velocity v,, it is only necessary to multiply 

the ordinates.^ by -^- This calculation is based upon the 

assimiption that within the velocities used in practice the 
tensions are proportional to the various velocities. This 
assumption, as Fig. 319 shows, is only allowable within 
small limits. If, for example, the tension E and strength 
of current C are sought for a definite resistance B, and a 
velocity of rotation v,, while the characteristic curve for the 
velocity v only is known, the following is the plan of cal- 

culation. If the velocities — = K, then E = Ke, and then 
follows C = p- • C corresponding with the resistance B 

is thus obtained for the velocity Vi by determining the 

B 
strength of current for the resistance ^ in the curve for the 

velocity v. A tension, c, corresponds to this current C for 
the velocity v, and this e is to be multiplied by K in order 
to get the electromotive force for v^. 



THEORY OF D TNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 479 




DeUrmimUiam of Tttuion Difftrtnett. 



A very important problem is the determination of dif- 
ferences of tension between any two parts of the current 
circuit which are separated 
from each other by a defi- Fw.aw. 

nite resistance. Let the to- 
tal resistance of the circuit 
be R and the resistance of 
that part of the circuit the 
tension differences of which 
are to be determined be r. 
Lay the line O X against 
the angle D O X, the tan- 
gent of which is 2?, and 
the angle COX, the tangent of which is r. Then 
DA = OAxtanDOA=Ox2? 
EA = 0AxtanC0A=(7xr 
DE = DA-EA=C(2?-r) 

According to Oh'nCs law C (2? — r) is the difference of 
tension between the two points of the current circuit 
which are separated by the resistance R — r, and is the e 
sought for. 

If C O X is the internal resistance of the machine and 
the total resistance be varied, D E represents the difference 
of tension at the binding posts of the machine. At start- 
ing this difference is at zero, as O D and O C coincide, and 
with increased speeds it increases to maximum and then 
decreases, as is shown by the curved line. 



lOO. >Ia.cIiiiieH ^with Sepai-atecl Cir- 
enits. We will now give attention to another class of 
machines in which the coils of the electro-field-magnets are 
traversed by two currents. Each electro-magnet has two 
spirals : — one of which is traversed by a constant current 
which is generated by an extra machine ; and the other is 
traversed by the entire current generated by its own arma- 



480 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fio.J 



ture. The effects of these two currents are added to each 
other ; but the items of resistance of the two circuits must 
be separately considered, as that of the circuit of the extra 
machine and of the coils of the main machine are together, 
but independent of the work done in the main circuit. But 
the resistance of the second spiral/ through which the work- 
ing current flows, must be considered in elucidating our 
theory. Let O' F C, Fig. 322, be the characteristic curve 
of the machine; when the first, or separated, spiral is 
traversed by a constant current from the extra machine, the 
intensity of that current is represented by the O' O and 
its tension by O F, as long as no current is generated in. 

the circuit of the second 
spiral. 

Now, let the current 
from the armature of the 
main machine be started 
and traverse the second 
spiral, its magnetic effect 
will be added to that of 
the first; so the starting 
point of a new character- 
istic curve is at the point F. 
From this diagram we can draw the following con- 
clusions :— Let E O' X represent the internal resistance of 
the viachine, without considering the spiral belonging to 
the extra machine ; then the maximimi of the potential 
difference which can be attained by the machine alone is 
designated by D E, which corresponds to the resistance 
D O' X. But if we have a magnetic field already furnished — 
as is the case when the extra machine is run — ^then, be- 
cause the internal resistance, B O X = E O' X, remains 
unaltered, we have a useful potential difference as much in 
excess of the former as the line C B exceeds the line D E ; 
and even this does not represent the attainable maximum. 




CharacttrUtic Curvt /or Machines having 
S^faraitd Circuit*. 



THEORY OF DT N AMO-ELE CTRIC MACHINES. 481 

Deprez has experimentally determined the characteristic 
curves of a large number of Oramme machines. Before 
attaining speed the line is but slightly curved ; and up to 
the point near saturation, it can be practically regarded as 
straight. If machines are used which have large dimen- 
sions in proportion to the sizes of their armatures, the 
points of saturation are less early reached, and the curves 
remain nearer straight for increased effects. For many 
machines under the conditions of practice, the characteristic 
curve can be practically represented by a straight line. But 
this is only approximately correct. FrolicVs investiga- 
tions with certain machines showed that the curve may be 
represented by a straight line at starting and at the end ; 
but at the centre, which part is in practical use, the curve 
has the greatest bend. Therefore the deductions of Deprez 
from his theory are not unconditionally applicable to all 
machines. But the method by which these results were ob- 
tained is so simple and elegant, it seems justifiable in us to 
show several examples of its application. 

1 1 • Dynamo IMiaeliiiies of Oonstant 

Electromotive Force. When the problem is 
given to so construct a dynamo-electric machine that under 
a given velocity a constant tension may be preserved at its 
binding-posts, no matter what may be the changes made in 
the resistance of its external circuit, the following conditions 
are to be observed. When for a given velocity the charac- 
teristic curve of a machine has been constructed, a straight 
line with a definite inclination towards the O X will be ob- 
tained according to the foregoing description. M the velocity 
be changed, all the ordinates must be multiplied by a constant 
in order to obtain the new curve. This means the same as 
turning the characteristic straight line a certain number of 
degrees around the point where it cuts the O X axis. 

Let O' G be the characteristic curve of a machine. If a 
21 



482 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



magnetic field is produced in it by a constant exterior cur- 
rent, the characteristic line is represented by the part F Q 
of the line. If D O X be the interior resistance of the ma- 
chine, the lines F G and O D will generally meet at one 
point ; so that that portion of the ordinates between these 
two lines representing the tension at the binding-posts is 
variable. There will be a different tension for each exter- 
nal resistance ; but we possess the means of making the 

Fio. 888. 




Mackint with Cotutani Ttntton, 



tension unvarying. We cwa make the line O' G turn about 
the point O' by changing the velocity. For a given velocity 
the straight line will take the position O' C, which is paral- 
lel to O D. Then the line C B, which represents the tension 
at the binding-posts, will remain constant in length for any 
resistance C O X of the exterior circuit, and we will have a 
machine which with the given velocity gives a current hav- 
ing constant tension, no matter how much the exterior 
resistance is varied. 

Deprez has also shown how it is possible in a similar 
manner to construct machines of constant strength or inten- 
sity of current. But we must refer in this matter to the 
original paper by him read before the " Congrte Interna- 
tional des Electriciens," at Paris, in 1881, and printed in 
"Comptes Rendus,'' p. 103. 



THEORY OF DTN AMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 483 

lO^. Oombination IMCacliiiies. As we 

have seen from the formulee set forth in Section 96, the 
electric current produced by a machine is dependent upon 
the resistance of the external circuit. The strength or in- 
tensity of current is 

and the tension is 

JS? = T(nt; — aJB), 

When we vary the resistance and retain the speed of rota- 
tion, we obtain a current of different tension and different 
intensity. For practical use, however, it is necessary to 
have, in nearly all cases, a current of approximately con- 
stant qualities. In incandescense lighting, for example, it 
is necessary to preserve constant tension at the binding- 
posts of the dynamo, under all possible changes of the 
external resistance. For other purposes— galvanoplastic 
operations, for example — it is desirable to preserve the in- 
tensity of the current. Deprez's discovery that we could 
build dynamo electric machines so that they would have 
either constant tension or constant intensity, as might be 
designed, without further regulating apparatus, is of the 
greatest practical interest. In Section 99 it has been shown 
that when the electro-magnets of a dynamo-electric ma- 
chine are provided with two sets of coils, one of which is 
traversed by an independent constant current, and the 
other by the current of the machine itself, there is always 
a certain definite velocity of rotation of the armature at 
which the machine gives a current of either constant ten- 
sion or constant intensity, no matter what the resistance of 
the exterior circuit may be. Prof. Perry has devised other 
methods of obtaining the same result. In the following 
pages we present the most important of these methods. 



484 



DTNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



These are based upon a combination of arrangements and 
of machines, in order to obtain currents of desired prop- 
erties. 

Constant Tension according to Deprez. This is by the 
separated circuits elaborated in Section 101. The method 
can be applied to any machine provided with two sets of 



Fie. 894. 




Cfftutani Tension by De^ex. 



convolutions on the field magnets, through one set of which 
a special current from an independent source is sent, as at 
h c (Fig. 324). In that way a constant magnetic field is 
obtained, which is independent of the current which is 
caused to traverse the main circuit a of the machine. 
When the armature is rotated with a defined velocity, the 
electromotive force which produces the current will depend 
partly upon the independently-excited magnetic field, and 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 485 

partly upon the additional magnetism conferred by the cur- 
rent of the machine itself. 

If the velocity be so chosen that the quotient obtained 
by dividing that part of the electromotive force derived 
from the self -excitement by the intensity, is equal with the 
resistance of the internal circuit of the machine, then the 
tension in the external circuit is constant, whatever may be 
the external resistance. This is in words the statement of 
the graphical construction given in Section 101. 

The constant tension can be given any definite value by 
having the separate currents of proportionate magnitude. 



Fio. 896. 




Cotutani Intensity aeccrding to DtprtM. 



Constant intensity of current according to Deprez. The 
arrangement for obtairing a constant strength of current, 
shown by Fig. 325, differs from the preceding one in the 
particular of putting the armature in the branch circuit 6 c. 



486 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



instead of in the main circuit a alone. The fact is quite 
interesting that the velocity of a machine for producing 
constant strength of current is the same as that for gener- 
ating constant tensions. One or the other result can there- 
fore be obtained by a simple switch which will throw the 



Pio. »96. 




Cctutant Tension according to Perry, 



branch circuit in or out to effect the change. [The circuit 
h'e is part of the circuit of an independent source of elec- 
tricity, as in the preceding case. 

We have seen in Section 68 how Weston secures practi- 
cally constant tension. This is mainly by duly proportion- 
ing all the parts of the machine one to another ; making 
the core of the armature as massive as is practically possi- 
ble, and running it very closely to the poles of the field 
magnets ; and by making the coils of the field magnets of 



THEORY OF DTN AMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 487 

comparatively very high resistance, and putting them in a 
circuit derived at the binding-posts. — K.] 

Constant Tension according to Perry. By this method a 
magnetic field is first produced independent of the armature 
of the machine, by intercalating a magneto-electric ma- 

Fio.887. 







Constant Intttisiiy according to Perry, 



chine m into the main circuit a. The magneto is driven at 
a determined uniform velocity, and produces in the main 
machine a magnetic field of definite strength, in the same 
way as in the separated coils of Depres^s method. Perry 
then determines by experiment the velocities of the mag- 
neto and dynamo machines, respectively, at which the ten- 
sion becomes independent of the external circuit. 

A disadvantage belonging to this method is this : that by 
the connection of two machines in series the resistance is 



488 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



much increa43ed9 and therefore the arrangement is not eco- 
nomical. 

HJorth set forth this combination of a magneto-electric 
and dynamo-electric machine in 1854. 

In order to obtain a constant current^ Perry makes use of 
the arrangement shown by Fig. 327. The electro-magnets 
and the magneto-electric machine m are in a branch circuit 
n. The proper velocities are determined by experiment. 

FI0.8S8. 




Comp<mnd Winding 0/ Brush, 



Brush made use of the so-called "compound-winding" 
in his first machines. It consists in providing the electro- 
field-magnets with a second set of coils of high resistance, 
besides the usual ones of comparatively low resistance in 
series with the armature, which second set of coils was 
connected with the brushes so that it formed a shunt- 



THBOBT OF DTN AMO-BLBCTR IC MACHINES. 489 

circuity derived from the main circuit. The intensity of the 
magnetic field is thereby less influenced by changes in the 
e:ztemal circuit. 

Becently Siemens & HaUke have undertaken the problem 
of constructing dynamo machines having constant tension 
at the binding-posts. They endeavor to obtain this desired 
condition by means of the so-called " compound winding," 
which was first mentioned by Synsteden in the year 1871. 
This consisted either in providing two of the four field mag- 
net limbs with high resistance coils, and the remaining two 
with low resistance coils, or in providing each limb two sets 
of like coils which were placed thereon side by side or 
superimposed. The convolutions of fine wire of high resist- 
ance can be either connected in derivation from the arma- 
ture or from the entire main circuit of the machine. The 
coarse-wire circuit is traversed by either the whole or a part 
of the main current. With the aid of one or the other com- 
pound winding, it has become possible to produce machines 
which give a nearly constant tension at the binding-posts, 
even if the number of incandescent lamps be increased from 
1 to 20. One machine on test gave with one lamp a tension 
of 63 volts ; with 8 lamps, 67 volts ; and with gradual de- 
crease with additions of lamps, until at 20 lamps the tension 
was 64 volts. 

We had occasion to see a similar machine at the works 
of Spiecher & Co., of Cologne, who build machines of this 
construction. It was arranged for 20 Edison A lamps. All 
20 lamps could be turned on or off, at will, either singly or 
several at a time, without perceptible increase nor decrea43e 
in the light of those left burning. 

[The United States Electric Lighting Co. have exhibited 
to the editor a Weston machine supplying 200 Maxim in- 
candescence lamps, and 199 of them were several times 
turned off at one instant with but a scarcely perceptible in- 
crectse in the light of the remaining one. This machine was 



490 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



simply shunt-wound, not compound wound, and of the type 
described on p. 339.— K.] 

Prof. Sylvanus P. Thompson suggests the arrangement 
sketched in Fig. 329. It differs from the preceding, as the 
second set of convolutions of the electro-magnets do not 
branch from the brushes at the collector ; but, instead, the 
entire current first traverses the main coils of the electro- 

fm. att. 




Cofuiant Tensitm tucording to Thompson, 



magnet, and then a portion only branches off into the shunt- 
circuit. This arrangement is calculated for constant ten- 
sion. 

[Mr. Thomas A. Edison, early in his labors in this line, 
conceived the idea of making dynamo machines of constant 
electromotive force for incandescence lighting, and filed in 
the U. S. Patent Office a caveat in which he clearly described 



CLASSIFICATION OF MACHINES. 491 

the compound winding in its various modifications, in the 
summer of 1879. Some of his patents thereon were issued 
on Sept. 19th, 1882, and are numbered 264,664, 264,668, 
264,662, and 264,671.— K.] 

1 03. OlAssificAtioii of I>yiiAmo-£:iee- 

ti-lc IMLAcliLiiies. Dynamo-electric machines can be 
classified under a number of heads, according to various 
points of view. The following may be considered : 

1. The nature of the current produced ; 

2. The nature and arrangement of the magnetic field ; 

3. The form of the armature. 

1. The cl(xs8ification of the machines according to the 
nature of the current produced. Most machines generate 
alternating currents which, during a part of the time, flow 
in one direction, and during the following time flow in the 
opposite direction. Only the unipolar machines give cur- 
rents of continually the same direction. With some ma- 
chines the alternating currents are conveyed as such into 
the external circuits. With others the alternating currents 
are turned in one direction either by commutators or by 
collectors when they are passed into the circuits external to 
their armatures. 

Under this head we can designate four classes of ma- 
chines, namely : 

a. Machines for alternating currents. The currents are 
conveyed into the external circuits just as they are pro- 
duced by the spools of the armature. As many as 30000 
current impulses alternating in direction are obtained per 
minute. 

6. Machines for currents of one direction. A commu- 
tator is always used to determine the direction of the cur- 
rent from that which it would otherwise take at the instant 
of change in the coils of the armature. The current so 
produced in the external circuit is not a constant one, but 



492 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



periodically changes its strength from nothing to the maxi- 
mum at every commutation. 

c. Machines with contintLOus currents. The armature 
carries numerous bobbins, so many divisions, which are 
connected to a collector which produces a like number of 
partial commutations. There is created a periodically in- 
creasing and decreasing current, the intensity of which be- 
comes more nearly constant with an increase in the number 
of bobbins on the armature. 



Fio. sao. 



Fig. 881. 




1 






^ 


N 




r 






1 




Magntio' Eltctric Machine, 



DytuuMO'EUcMc Mackint, 



d. Machines with constant current. The current pro- 
duced in the armature has always the same intensity ; and 
therefore the machine produces, without the aid of mechan- 
ical attachments, currents of constant direction and con- 
stant intensity. 

2. The classification according to the nature and arrange^ 



CLASSIFICATION OF MACHINES. 



493 



ment of the magnetic field. There are magneto-electric ma- 
chines in which the magnetic field is produced by perma- 
nent magnetSy as at m. Fig. 330 ; and dynamo-electric ma- 
chines in which the field is produced by electro-magnets 
energized by currents from their own armatures. There 
are two classes of the latter. One, the machine with simple 
magnetic field, t. e., having one N and one S pole, as in 
Fig. 331 ; and the other, the machine having a compound 
magnetic field produced by four or more magnetic poles. 

[Another may be added here ; which may be called the 
electro-magneto-electric machine. This is one which has 
the electro-field-magnets excited solely by a separate ma- 
chine or other source of electricity. — K.] 

Fii». 882. 




Diagram of tht Ring- A rmature. 



3. The classifi^^ation of the dynamo-electric machine ac-- 
cording to the form of the armature is very important. In 
case of machines for continuous current four types are dis- 
tinguished : 

a. The Ring-Armature. The armature consists of an 
iron ring which has its entire surface covered with the wire 
of the bobbins. The principle and construction of this ring 



494 



DTNAMO-ELBCTBIO MACHINES. 



Fio. 888. 



nt: 




and its connection with a collector we have considered at 
length in the introduction (page 37 to 38), and we now 
give a diagrammatic illustration of it in Fig. 332. In con- 
struction the following three principal 
points are to be considered : 

The winding must be so arranged 
that it gives currents which are as con- 
stant and of the same quality as possible. 
The iron ring-core must not permit the 
formation of FoucauWs currents. The 
wire coils must be so arranged that, if 
possible^ their entire length is subject to 
induction. 

This last point has caused the variety 
of forms which have been devised and 
made. 

The ideal form of the ring is given in 
the diagram, Fig. 333. The iron ring which is here taken 
for illustration has a square cross-section and is enclosed 
on all sides by magnetic surfaces, one half of which is of 



infill 




7X« Idtal RinfA rmmiurt. 



Fro. 884. 





'V 



rrmm 



Gramme Rin£. 



north and the other half of south polarity. Difficulties inci- 
dent to construction have prevented the practical realiza- 
tion of this principle. The machines which have been 
actually made are to be regarded as more or less complete 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 495 

deformities of the ideal ring. If this ideal ring be pressed 
to flatten it in the direction perpendicular to its axis^ and 



Fio. 885. 




yurietutn Ring. 



Fio. 886. 




Siemens Ring. 



Fio. 887. 



r 



! 



the lateral and interior magnetic surfaces be withdrawn, 
the ordinary Gramme machine (Fig. 334) is obtained. If 
an electro-magnet be placed in the interior of the ring, the 
Jtirgensen machine is obtained (Fig. 335). At 
the International Electrical Exhibition in 
Paris a machine was exhibited by Siemens & 
Halske in which the exterior magnetic sur- 
faces were omitted and only the interior sur- 
faces retained. (See Fig. 336.) If the ideal 
ring be compressed in the direction of the 
axis, and magnets are set opposite to the flat 
surfaces, the so-called flat-ring machine of 
Schuckert (Fig. 337) is obtained. Up to the 
present time only the first and last named of 
these machines, in their modifications, have 
met with practical success. 

6. The Drum Armature. In this, instead of winding the 
circuit wires around a ring, they are wound lengthwise on 
a drum, or cylinder. They encircle the drum or cylinder 
parallel to the axis and cross the ends in proper arrange- 




Sckuckert Ring. 



496 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHIKBS. 



ment. After the same manner as in the ring armatures the 
wires form a closed circuit. The core of the drum is made 
up of a cylinder of wood or papier mache^ and upon this is 
placed a thickness of iron wire, or some iron rings which 
are so arranged that FoucauWs induction currents are 
avoided as much as possible. The various, drums which 
have heretofore been constructed differ from one another in 
the construction of the core, and also in the connections of 
the wires at the collector end. The bobbins of the drum 
armature are continuously connected. The end of one bob- 




iiniiiuiiiiii I 

Siemens Drum. 



bin is connected with the beginning of its neighbor at the 
same collector segment. The drums first constructed by 
Alteneck did not have a symmetrical connection of the bob- 
bin ends with the collector segments. This form of con- 
nection was considered desirable on account of the simpler 
construction, and because the several bobbins were better 
insulated, thus avoiding short-circuiting sparks between 
contiguous segments and bobbins. Frolich afterward dis- 
covered a symmetrical winding according to which the 
Siemens armatures are wound at present. Anton BrSguet 
has since shown that a great number of such symmetrical 
windings and connections exist. With a drum of eight 
divisions there are no less than eight. That winding should 
then be selected which, with the same inductive capacity, 
will have the shortest length of wire. Briquet calculates 



THBOBY OF DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 497 

that for the ends of the drums the following lengths of 
wire are necessary for the various systems : 

Fio. 889. 







K7 


IS 




J/ 


r 


X 


> 


\* 


y. 








A" 


Ml 


X 


M 


X 


s 


\ 


V 


X 


y 


A 




N 


V-^ 


U 






/f-b/icil WindiHi, 



Hefner^AUentck WituUmi. 



Frolich Winding, 30.8 

Hefner-AIteneck Winding, 30.5 

Br6guet '' 26.0 

Br6guet (another) " 28.4 





Bregugt IVineiiHg, 



Britutt Windint, 



The drum armature is the most important form of arma- 
ture for machines of continuous currents, and it celebrates 
its triumph in the Edison machine, the winding of which 
is symmetrical also, but which has an uneven number of 
divisions. (See Fig. 343.) 

c. Pole Armature. The bobbins are wound on radial 
arms of iron, as shown in diagram by Fig. 344. When 



498 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



this wheel is rotated between two stationary magnetic 
poles, the radial iron arms change their polarity alternately 



Pio. 848. 




Bditon Winding. 



and in consequence of this change of poles induction cur- 
rents are created in the encircling wires and are led off 
by a collector. 



Fig. 844. 



s— 




Lontin Armature. 



d. Disk Armature. This form has not yet attained any 
practical importance. It exists in the so-called Arago ma- 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 499 

chine, in two or more designed by Edison, and in one built 
by Hochhausen; all of which we have described. The 
armature conductors are arranged in the form of a disk ; 
they consist of wire, or copper bands, or copper bars with 
radial connecting pieces to a collector. 

In Alternating-Current Machines a division is not so 
easily and strictly possible. This is so because the magnetic 
field of these machines is a very complex one, and there- 
fore admits of a great variety of constructions. The most 
important forms can be gathered under the following clas- 
sification : 

a. The Spool Armature. This armature is characteristic 
of the alternating current machines. The armature consists 



Fio. 846 







Tk* St'emtmt Spool A rmaiurt. 

of wire bobbins fastened to the periphery of a disk in such 
a manner that their axes are parallel to the axis of rotation. 
In a number of machines the armature is stationary (Jab- 
lochkoflPs and Gordon's), and the electro-field-magnets are 
rotated ; in others the armature is moved, and the field- 
magnets remain stationary. 

6. The Bing-Armature. The winding is on a ring as in 



600 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fto.SKL 




Ring A rmaiurt of Grammt AUtmaiimg'Currtui Machine, 



the ca43e of continuous current machines ; not in continuous 
connection, as in them, but separated into many divisions, 

Fio.847. 




P0U Armaturt 0/LontiiCt Alttmating-Cmrretii Mackimt, 

asABCDAB . . . . of which those having the same 
action, as A A, B 6, etc., are connected with each other, 
c. The Pole-Armature. The machine with pole-arma- 



THEORY OF DTK AMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 501 

ture consists of a wreath of induction bobbins, and a wheel 
of electro-magnets turning in this wreath. The axes of the 
electro-magnets are perpendicular to the axis of rotation of 
the machine. (See Fig. 347.) 




71k4 FtrrtMti'Tk^mtM Dfsk-Armaturr. 

d. The Disk-Armature. The Ferranti-Thomson machine 
is the only example of a practically executed disk-armature 
of this class. The conductors are arranged on the rotating 
disk in zigzag shape. (See Fig. 348.) 

1 04r. Collectors. Collectors belong to all dyna- 
mo-electric machines which produce continuous currents of 
one direction without commutation. As the collector is 
one direction without commutation. As the collector is 
one of the most important parts of the dynamo, it deserves 
detailed mention. Collectors are usually formed of a row 
therewith, but insulated from it and from each other. Vari- 
ous modifications of this arrangement have been used, or 
proposed. Niaudet fastens the copper bars radially on a 
disk of insulating material. Weston and Schuckert make 
use of spirally-crooked copper bars. These deviations have 
proven useless, or even injurious, complications of the sim- 
ple cylindrical construction. 

In a well-constructed dynamo-electric machine the sev- 
eral parts are traversed by currents which come from the 
negative brush and traverse the two divisions of the wind- 



502 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



ingy and meet in that piece of the collector which touches 
the positive brush. Every division or bobbin of the arma- 
ture adds its electromotive force to that of the preceding 
one^ and therefore strengthens the current traversing it. 
If, now, the tension between the negative brush and the 
succeeding sections of the collector be measured, it will be 
found that it increases regularly in both directions, linearly, 
on the collector, and attains its maximum at the opposite 
side, where the positive brush is. This can be proven, ex- 
perimentally, by the aid of a galvanometer, one pole of 
which is attached to the negative brush, while a flexible 



Pig. 349. 




Fki. 86a 




Tensions on a Collector of 
a Grammg Dynamo. 



Horizontal Diagram of Tensions on a Collector of a 



piece of copper is attached to the other pole, and with 
it the several radial pieces of the collector are consecu- 
tively touched. If the several observed differences in ten- 
sion be graphically recorded on a drawing of the periphery 
of the collector, a picture as given in Fig. 349 will be 
obtained. In this way we can observe the regular growth 
of the tension from the lowest point of the circle, which 
point represents the negative brush, up to the maximum at 
the positive brush. If these graphic values are represented 
on a straight line, which can be done by imagining the 
periphery of the collector as unrolled upon a plane, the dia- 
gram represented in Fig. 350 is obtained. This shows that 
the tension does not increase regularly between the neigh- 
boring segments ; if it did, the curves would resolve them- 



THBOBY OF DTNAMCV>BLBCTBIO MAOQINBS. 603 

selves into two straight lines. In reality the increase of 
tension is smallest in the neighborhood of the two brushes^ 
and the rate of increase is greatest at a point about 9(f 
from the brushes. It is there where the bobbins of the 
armature pass the part of the magnetic field which exerts 
the greatest inductive action. If the magnetic field was 
entirely homogeneous, the number of lines-of -force cut by 
the bobbins rotating in the field would be proportional to 
the sine of the angle which the plane of the bobbin pro- 
duces compared with the direction of the magnetic lines- 
of -force. The increase and decrease of the number of these 
lines is then proportional to the cosine of this angle. The 
cosine is greatest when the angle is at zero. When, there- 
fore, the bobbin is parallel to the lines- t^.^ 5».i 
of -force, that is, when moved at 90° from 
the brushes, the increase of tension must be 
greatest. This is nearly the case in Fig. 
350, where the course is almost exactly a 
sinus line. The measurements relating to 
the division of the tension at the collector 
are of great practical interest. They not 
only show where the brushes should be 
placed in order to gain the best effect, but 
also permit judgment as to the efficiency of the bobbins 
in various parts of the magnetic field. If the brushes are 

Fio.868. 




Dia^rtim of Tensions at 
Coiloctor of badly ar* 
ranged Dyttamo, 




HorUontal Diagram of Tension* at Collector of 
badly arranged Dynamo, 

located at the wrong place, or if the pole-pieces of the field- 
magnets have a wrong shape, the run of the tensions at the 
collector will be irregular, and maxima and minima of ten- 
sion will be observed at other points than those where the 



504 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

brushes touch the collector. An actual diagram of the 
relations of tension at the collector of a machine of faulty 
construction is shown in Fig. 351. It is transferred to a 
horizontal line in Fig. 352. By these it is to be seen that 
the division of tension at the collector is irregular, and so 
much so that one portion of the collector has a greater posi- 
tive tension than at the positive brush, and another portion 
a greater negative tension than at the negative brush. 

Therefore, a portion of the current produced by the ma- 
chine is destroyed by another portion ; and it would be pos- 
sible to lead off another current by another pair of brushes 
placed so as to touch at these maximal and minimal points 
of tension. In the English patent No. 1640 of 1882 one 
Kennedy has obtained a patent on a machine, which, in con^ 
sequence of its incorrect construction, gives off currents at 
six differently-placed brushes. 

All machines with collectors and simple magnetic fields 
give curves like the one in Fig. 349. The Brush machine, 
however, which has a simple magnetic field, but a commu- 
tator instead of a collector, shows an entirely different dis- 
pw. 868. position of the tension. Over one-eighth of 

the circumference on each side of the points 
of contact of the positive brush there is no 
perceptible difference of tension :— all points 
have the same tension, which is that of the 
brush itself. The same is the case in the 
Dia^t^^ia^ Ten- ncighborhood of the negative brush, where 
tiotu at Brtuk ^q tcusion has the constant value due to 

Commutator. 

this brush. Between these there are points 
where the tension becomes smaller, and, passing through 
zero, changes its signs. This is shown in diagram, Fig. 363. 

END OF FmST VOLUME. 




APPENDIX- 



THE UNITS OF MEASUBEMENT OF THE ABSOLUTE, OB 
0. G. S. SYSTEM. 

a. MECHANICAL UNITS. 

1. Unit of Lekgth. 1 Centimeter (C) = -^ of the length of 
the measuring rod, or metre, made by Borda and preserved in the 
cellars of the Paris observatory (Dim. C*). 

2. Unit op Mass. 1 Gramme ((?) = the quantity of 1 cu. cm. 
of distilled water at its greatest density (4° Cels.). (Dim. 0*.) 

3. Unit of Time. 1 Second (8) = 86400 part of the mean 
day of the sun. (Dim. 8^.) 

4. Unit of Forgb. 1 Dyne (Z>) = that power which acting 
for one second upon the weight of one gramme^ gives this the veloc- 
ity of 1 cm. per second. (Dim. C O S"*,) 

Technical Unit. 1 Kilogramme = 98100 Dynes. 

5. Unit of Power. 1 Erg. (E) = the labor performed by the 
Dyne 1 when it travels the distance of 1 cm. (Dim. C* 8"*.) 

Technical Units. ' 
1 Meterkilogramme = 98,100,000 Ergs. 
1 Watt = 5^ Meterkilogramme = 1 Volt-Ampere. 
1 Pferdestarke (German and French horse-power) 

= 75 Meterkilogramme = 736 Watt. 
1 Horse-power (English and American) = 76 Meterkilogramme 

= 746 Watt 



506 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

6. The Unit of Epfect is the labor performed during one 
second. (Erg-Second.) (Dim. C7« G 8'^.) 

Technical Units. 
1 Second-Meterkilogramme = 98,100,000 Erg-Second. 
1 Second-Pferdestarke = 75 Second-Meterkilogramme. 

b. ELECTRICAL UNITS {Electro-magnetic System). 

1. The Unit of the Quantity of Electricity is that which, 
acting upon a mass which is 1 cm. distant, exerts a force equal to one 
dyne. (Dim. CiOi) 

Technical Unit. 1 Coulomb = lO"* {G 8) units. 

2. The Unit op the Strength of Current is that quantity 
which propagates 1 Coulomb through the cross-section of the wire 
in 1 second. (Dim. 6^6?i/S-i.) 

Technical Unit. 1 Ampere = lO"* (0 G 8) units. 

3. The Unit of Tension is that tension (potential difference) 
between two points which requires the expenditure of one unit of 
force (1 Dyne) to move 1 Coulomb from one point to the other by 
overcoming the electrical repulsion. (Dim. C* G^ 8"*). 

Technical Unit. 1 Volt = 10^ (0 G 8) units. 

4. Tbe Unit of Kesistance is that resistance which allows 
the passage of the quantity of electricity of 1 Coulomb between 
two points in one second with • the tension 1 (10~® Volt). (Dim. 
C8'K) 

Technical Unit. 1 Ohm = 10» {0 G 8) units. 

5. The Unit of Capacity is that capacity which, charged 
under the tension (1 (10~« Volt), contains the quantity of electricity 
1 (1 Coulomb). (Dim. C-i 8*.) 

Technical Unit. 1 Farad = 10-» {C G 8) units. 

These iinits, multiplied or divided by 10* are termed mega . . . , 
micro ... 



APPENDIX. 



607 



VARIOUS RESISTANCE UNITS. 

(Beport of the Committee on Electrical Standard.) 



Ohm..., 
Siemens 
Meter 



10' (Weber). 



Sec 

Digney (1 km. iron wire 4 mm.) 
Varley (1 mile copper wire ,V 



in-J 



Jacobi (35 It. copper wire 845 

grains) 

Qerman mile (iron wiro ) in.) 



l.OOD 
0.9537 

0.9191 

9.306 

35.61 

0.6867 
67.44 



1.0486 
1.000 

0.0686 

9.71 

36.88 

0.6674 
00.30 



1.068 
1.088 

1.000 

10.06 

37.85 

0.6935 
68.48 



0.1079 
0.1080 

0.00919 

1.000 

3.768 

0.06869 
6.196 



I 



0.08905 
0.08T96 

0.08691 

0.8630 

1.000 

0.08486 
3.M8 



1.570 
1.486 

1.444 

14.66 

40.81 

1.000 
90.83 



0.01741 
0.01661 

0.01665 

0.1618 

0.4467 

0.01108 
1.000 



According to Siemens £ Halshe^ 1 Ohm = 1.0615 Siemens. 
VARIOUS CURRENT UNITS. 





Ampdre. 


Daniell 


Jacobi. 


Silver. 


Copper. 


Siemens. 


Ampdre 


1.000 

1.17 

9.58 

1.48 

5.08 


0.85 

1.00 

0.063 

0.018 

0.048 


io.ae 

13.81 
1.00 
0.166 
0.689 


67.65 

79.15 

6.48 

1.00 

8.40 


19.86 

88.38 

1.89 

OJHM 


DanielUSiemene 

Jacobi (ccm. oxyhydr. eas 1 Min.) 

Silver (precipitate, 1 mer. 1 H.) 


Copper *■ '* " 


1.00 



NORMAL ELEMENTS, OR BATTERY CELLS. 

Daniell [Zw, ZnSO^ (1.18), CuSO^ (1.15), Cu'] = 1.11 Volt 

'' [Zn, ff, S 0^ (1.15), OuSO^ (1.15), Cu] = 1.19 " 

'* Post-office of London = 1.07 " 

Element Latimer-Clark = 1.46 " 

Biinsen = 2.05 " 

'' Grove = 2.06 " 

The numbers in parentheses designate the densities of the elec- 
trolytes, water being = 1.00. 

COMPARISON OF THE VARIOUS WIRE MEASUREMENTS. 

For the following tables, 1 millimeter (according to Sciejitific 
American) = 0.393685 Eng. inches. 

The three systems in use are : 

Brown & Sharpe's American Wire Gauge {Am. W. 0. or B. <& S. 
W. G.). 

Stubs or Birmingham Wire Gauge {B. W. 0.). 

Old English or London Wire Gauge. « 



508 



DrNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



A. APFBOZIXATELT OOBBEaFQHDIHG HUMBBB8 OF THESE THESE flTSTEU. 



It 



M. 



0000 

000 
00 


1 

8 
8 

4 
6 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 



oooa-3^ 

0004 

7 
8 
9Vi 

184 



4 



J" 

7 

6 

10)i 

12^ 

184 



IS 
18 
14 
16 
10 
17 
18 
19 
90 
81 
88 
88 
94 



16 

17 
17^^ 

88 
88 

g* 

86 

87 



^1 



14)i 
16 
16 
17 

T 



It 



87 
88 
89 
80 
81 
88 
88 
84 
85 
86 
87 
88 
89 
40 



88 
894 

81 
88 
88 

84 



804 

if* 

86X 

88^ 



The measurements used in commerce for the Birmingham and 
Old English wire gauge have been changed so much in time^ that, 
they cannot be depended upon with any certainty. 



OF WISES OF THE DIFFEBSKT OAUQES, IV BECDCALS OF 
EEOLISH nrcHEs. 

(1 mm. = 0.0898686 inches.) (1 inch s 86.40108 mm.) 



No. 


Old 


Birmlneh. 




NO. 


Old 


Birmlngh. 


Brown 


English. 


W. G. 


& ShArpe. 


English. 


W.G. 


ASharpe. 


0000 


0.454 


0.464 


O.4600O 


19 


0.040 


0.048 


0.08589 


000 


0.485 


0.485 


0.40964 


80 


0085 


0.085 


0.08196 


00 


0.880 


0.880 


0.86480 


81 


0.0816 


0.088 


0.08846 





0.840 


0.840 


0.88495 


88 


0.0895 


0.088 


0.08686 


1 


0.800 


0.800 


0.88030 


88 


0.08T0 


0.085 


0.08867 


8 


0.884 


0.884 


0.85768 


94 


0.0850 


0.088 


0.08010 


8 


O.80O 


0.869 


0.88948 


86 


0.0880 


0.080 


0.01190 


4 


0.888 


0.888 


0.80481 


96 


0.0805 


0.018 


0.01B04 


6 


0.880 


0.880 


0.18194 


97 


0.01875 


0.016 


0.01419 


6 


0.903 


O.808 


0.16808 


88 


0.01650 


0.014 


0.01864 


7 


0.180 


0.180 


0.14428 


89 


01660 


0.018 


0.01186 


8 


0.165 


0.165 


0.18849 


80 


0.01875 


0.018 


01008 


9 


0.148 


0.148 


0.11448 


81 


0.01886 


0.010 


0.00888 


10 


0.184 


0.184 


0.10189 


89 


0.01186 


0.009 


0.00796 


11 


0.180 


0.180 


0.09074 


88 


0.01086 


0.006 


O.O0706 


18 


0.109 


0.109 


0.06081 


84 


0.00960 


0.007 


0.00680 


18 


0.095 


0.005 


0.07196 


85 


- 0.00900 


0.006 


0.00661 


14 


0.0S3 


0.063 


0.06106 


80 • 


0.00750 


0.004 


0.00600 


16 


0.078 


0.079 


0.05707 


87 


0.00660 




0.00445 


16 


0.085 


0.066 


0.06088 


1 88 


0.00575 


— 


0.008086 


17 


0.058 


0.068 


0.(M535 


89 


0.00600 


— 


O.008681 


18 


0.049 


0.049 


0.04030 


1 40 


0.00460 


— 


O.O08144 



APPENDIX. 



50» 



G. TABLB 0? WnOBI AHD BS8I8TAVCB OF FOBS OaPPXX WOE OJLXX 

BnP£XI0B,U.8.A.). 

The nnmhen are thoee of Brown and Sharpens American Wire Gauge. Feet and poonds are 

SngUsh. 









RBauTAXOi OF Nakxd Oopfsb at 
76* Fahubrhbit. 


No. 


POITMIM 

1000 Ft. 
















Wound 

with 
cotton. 


Wonnd 
with 

SillL 


Naked. 


Ohm 
per 1000 ft. 


Ohm 
per 

ST? 


Feet 
per ohm. 


Ohm 
per pound. 














onoft. 






0000 


689.88 


__ 


, 


1.66 


0.051 


,„, 


19606.69 


O.O000796 


000 


507.01 


— 


— 


1.97 


0.064 


— 


16647.87 


0.000127 


00 


402.00 


— 


— 


2.49 


0.061 


— 


12880.86 


0.000802 





819.04 


— 


— 


8.18 


0.108 


— 


9788.68 


0.000880 


1 


252.88 


— 


— 


8.96 


0.129 


— 


7754.68 


0.000610 


3 


20p.64 


~ 


— 


4.99 


0.168 


— 


6149.78 


0.000811 


8 


159.06 


-. 


— 


6.99 


O.206 


— 


4876.78 


0.001389 


4 


126.12 


— 


— 


7.98 


0.260 


— 


8867.62 


0.00806 


6 


100.01 


— 


— 


10.00 


0.820 


— 


8097.06 


0.00686 





79.82 


— 


— 


12.61 


' 0.411 


— 


2482.22 


0.00618 


7 


62.00 


— 


— 


15.90 


0.619 


— 


19aS.75 


0.00824 


8 


49.88 


— 


_ 


20.05 


0.664 


8.8 


1689.69 


0.01811 


9 


89.56 


— 


~ 


25.28 


0.824 


4.1 


1218.22 


0.02088 


10 


81.87 


— 


— 


81.88 


1.040 


4.4 


961.91 


0.06814 


11 


24.88 


— 


— 


40.20 


1.811 


6.4 


762.96 


0,06269 


IS 


19.78 


42 


46 


50.09 


1.658 


8.8 


006.08 


0.068T7 


18 


15.65 


66 


60 


68.91 


2.664 


10.4 


479.80 


0.18821 


14 


12.41 


68 


76 


80.69 


2.698 


18.2 


880.51 


0.2118 


15 


9.84 


W 


96 


101.68 


8.814 


16.7 


801.76 


0.8368 


16 


7.81 


110 


120 


128.14 


4. 179 


83 


. 289.82 


0.5865 


17 


6.19 


140 


160 


161.60 


6.269 


86 


189.78 


0.8515 


18 


4.91 


175 


190 


808.76 


6.645 


88 


160.60 


1.8589 


19 


8.78 


280 


240 


264.26 


8.617 


48 


116.05 


2.2772 


80 


8.00 


880 


806 


824.00 


10.666 


68 


94.65 


8.428 


21 


2.45 


860 


890 


408.66 


18.888 


68 


75.06 


5.443 


82 


1.94 


450 


490 


616.16 


16.799 


85 


69.68 


8.654 


28 


1.54 


660 


615 


649.60 


21.185 


108 


47.80 


18.768 


24 


1.22 


715 


776 


819.21 


26.718 


186 


87.48 


21.886 


26 


0.97 


910 


990 


1082.96 


88.684 


170 


29.69 


84.796 


26 


0.77 


1166 


1266 


1802.61 


42.477 


214 


88.54 


65.881 


27 


0.61 


1446 


1670 


1643.65 


68.568 


270 


18.68 


87.979 


28 


0.48 


1810 


1970 


2071.22 


67.642 


848 


14.81 


188.898 


29 


0.88 


3S80 


2480 


2611.83 


86.170 


482 


11.74 


283.449 


80 


0.80 


2806 


8060 


3298.97 


107.891 


688 


9.81 


858.743 


81 


0.24 


8806 


8920 


4162.23 


185.403 


686 


7.89 


608.821 


88 


0.19 


4686 


4980 


6286.66 


170.765 


865 


6.86 


804.343 


88 


0.15 


_ 


6200 


6608.71 


215.812 


1088 


4.64 


1431.646 


84 


0.12 


— 


7880 


8888.80 


271.668 


1880 


8.68 


8261.82 


85 


0.10 


— 


0680 


10601.85 


842.448 


1820 


2.92 


8506.10 


86 


0.08 


— 


12480 


18888.88 


481.712 


2800 


2.82 


6715.86 


87 


0.06 


_ 


-. 


16091.06 


644.297 


8874 


1.84 


9064.71 


88 


0.06 


— 





80664.66 


686.511 


8636 


1.4B 


14880.36 


89 


0.04 


— 


~ 


86808.88 


865.046 


4667 


1.16 


82763.60 


40 


0.06 


— 


— 


88175.94 


1091.866 


6766 


0.92 


86888.59 



510 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



D. APPEOZnCATE TALUE OF DEGIXAL8 IH TEE OUSTOKABT PBACnOHB OF 



^ = aoi86 

^ = 0.0818 
^ = 0.0408 
3V = 0.0026 
-jff = 0.0781 
•j^ = 0.0987 
•^ = 0.1098 



AN ENGLISH IHCE. 

i = 0.1«0 
^ = 0.1406 
^ = 0.160S 
ii = 0.1718 
T^ = 0.18T6 
IJ = O.a081 
^ = OJnST 



i =0.« 
^ = 0J6B6 
A = 0JW1« 
|J = 0JM68 
^ = 0.8195 
f J^ = 0.8881 



S. XEASITBES DT TEE DECDEAL 8T8TEH (BBEOTIET). 



Number of 

Meters for 

1 Kllofframme 

of Naked 

Copper. 


Diameter in 
MillimeteiB. 


Number of 
Decimals. 


Number of 

Meters for 

1 Kilogramme 

of Naked 
* Copper. 


Diameter in 
MUUmetera. 


Number of the 
^Jause 
Caroarae. 


10 


4.4 


90 


1680 


0.98 


94 


16 


8.4 


18 


9400 


0.96 


96 


19 


8.0 


17 


8906 


0.94 


98 


96 


9.7 


16 


4 100 


0.99 


99 


80 


9.4 


16 


6 180 


O.SO 


80 


84 


9.9 




6800 


0.18 


81 


40 


9.0 




6 410 


0.16 


89 


64 


1.8 




7000 


0.14 


88 


66 


1.6 




8600 


0.11 


84 


TO 


1.5 




10 000 


0.09 


86 


75 


1.4 




18 600 


0.06 


40 


85 


1.8 




16 000 


0.06 


44 


100 


1.9 




99 000 


0.04 


60 


m 


1.1 




— 


— 


-_ 


160 


1.0 




— . 


— 





180 


0.9 




— 


— 





908 


0.8 




— 


— 


— 


880 


0.7 




_ 


.^ 





418 


0.6 




— 


_ 





646 


0.6 


Jauire 
Oaroasse. 






' 


646 


0.47 


19 


— 





_ 


686 


0.44 


14 


— 


— 





748 


0.40 


16 


— 


-. 


_ 


1030 


0.87 


18 


— 


-. 


. 


1800 


0.84 


90 


— 


^ 


_ 


1460 


0.31 


99 


— 


— 


— 



yo 



APPENDIX. 



511 



TABU 07 THE DDOHSIOVS, LEHOTH, SEBIBTAirCE AlID WEI0HT 07 PITBE 

COFFEE WntE. 



A wire of chemically pure copper 1 m. long and 1 mm. diameter 
weighs 6.990 grammes, and has a resistance of 0.022156 ohm at 15° 
Cels. If wt is the resistance of the copper wire at <°, w^ ^ at 15**, 
then 



w, 



= wv [1-0.0038 (^-15°)]. 



Diameter. 


Circumfer- 


Section. 


Kilog. per 


Meter per 


Obmper 


Kilometer 


mm. 


ence. 


sq. mm. 


Im. 


1kg. 


1km. 


per 1 Ohm. 


0.5 


1.5706 


0.1968 


0.00175 


673.38 


88.634 


0.01136 


1.0 


8.1416 


0.7864 


0.00609 


148.06 


33.166 


0.04518 


1.5 


4. TIM 


i.wn 


0.01578 


68.58 


9.8473 


0.10156 


3.0 


6.3882 


8.1416 


0.03796 


85.77 


6.6890 


0.1805 


«.5 


7.8640 


4.9067 


•0.04360 


98.88 


8.5460 


0.98147 


8.0 


9.434S 


7.0686 


0.06991 


16.80 


8.4618 


0.40631 


3.5 


10.996 


9.6311 


0.08603 


11.66 


1.8088 


0.56378 


4.0 


13.506 


13.566 


0.1118 


8.943 


1.3848 


0.72316 


4.5 


14.187 


16.904 


0.1415 


7.068 


1.0943 


0.91808 


6.0 


15.708 


19.886 


0.1747 


6.733 


0.8863 


1.1360 


6.5 


17.979 


38.768 


0.3114 


4.780 


0.7835 


1.3663 


6.0 


18.8S0 


38.374 


0.3516 


4.974 


0.6156 


1.6349 


6.5 


90.490 


88.188 


0.3888 


3.404 


0.5344 


1.9060 


7.0 


31.991 


38.484 


0.8436 


3.990 


0.4533 


3.8114 


7.5 


38.663 


44.179 


0.8083 


3.648 


0.3939 


3.5883 


8.0 


35.183 


50.266 


0.4474 


3.385 


0.3463 


3.8886 


8.5 


36.704 


56.746 


0.5050 


1.980 


0.3067 


3.3608 


9.0 


88.374 


68.617 


0.6663 


1.768 


0.3786 


3.6659 


9.5 


39.845 


70.888 


0.6808 


1.685 


0.3466 


4.0744 


10.0 


81.416 


78.540 


0.6090 


1.431 


0.8316 


4.5136 


11.0 


84.558 


95.083 


0.8468 


1.182 


0.1831 


5.4608 


ISO 


87.699 


118.097 


1.0066 


1.348 


0.1689 


6.4994 


18.0 


40.841 


183.733 


1.1818 


0.850 


0.1311 


7.6978 


14.0 


48.963 


158.988 


1.3700 


0.7999 


0.1130 


8.8467 


16.0 


47.134 


178.715 


l.ffW7 


0.6358 


0.09847 


10.1649 


16 


S0.365 


301.068 


1.7894 


0.6689 


0.06656 


11.S546 


17.0 


58.407 


396.980 


3.0301 


0.4960 


0.07667 


18.0481 


18.0 


66.549 


354.460 


3.3648 


0.4415 


0.06888 


14.6337 . 


19.0 


89.690 


388.580 


3.6384 


0.8963 


0.06137 


16.9978 


90. 


63.883 


814.160 


3.7960 


0.8677 


0.06689 


18.0640 


25.0 


78.540 


490.874 


4.8688 


0.3988 


0.08646 


38.1470 


80.0 


94.348 


706.868 


6.3910 


0.1689 


0.0M63 


40.6316 


85.0 


100.96 


963.118 


8.6695 


0.1168 


0.01809 


66.8786 


40.0 


195.66 


1856.64 


11.1846 


0.08043 


0.01886 


73.3160 


45.0 


141.87 


1600.48 


14.1688 


0.07068 


0.01094 


91.8980 


50.0 


197.08 


1068.60 


17.4788 


0.06783 


0.00886 


113.568 



512 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



H 



3 

o 

a 2 



CO 

» 
o 



O 



■2 I « 



S 1 



Si 

S! 

s 

o 
83 



35 



Pi 

O 



O 



^ ddooddoodoodooodddooo 



Od ddddddddddddddddddddd 






»> ddddddddddddddddddi-i^^ 



10 



dddddddodddd'^i-<i-iT-«i-^<-:i-4tHtH 



dddddd»-ii-5r«*i-:THr;,-;^H^,-;,-:^r^^r4 



^ c5 ^ ^" ,^ „• 1-; r-; ^ 1-; ,-<' »^ r^' «*,-;,-;,-: r4 ^* ,-i ,.; ,-; 






03 <-^9«TJc<('7ie«c4iMo<(7«o<oJcQc?o9eoooo$e6e6ed 



»0 









aB;SSSSSs«oi-0"^ooi-i 



lO I I- 00 ad 00 ci cs d d d ^' »-I 1-^ oi « 2J 



iq 00 0( CC 0» 00 w o 



CO •V ■Tf lO 



OaOO'^0«OXeO«tG9OX«9'<9O9OaO«C-«9*O 



coo®"*«oaD<©'*wooo 



@ S' S & i f: ^ ^ 




t-»osoi-i«oo'^ia«or-aoa»o 



APPENDIX. 



513 



TABLE OF THE L088 OF EHEBOT AJTB HEATIHO OF COPPER WISE CIECUIT8. 

(According to R. Sabine.) 

The Uble is intended for naked copper circnit«. suspended in the air. of various diameters in cm., and for 
various strengths of current in ampdres, the ioss or energy for 1 km. of circuit in horse-power (H. P.), and the 
heating of the circuit in degrees Celsius (Celt*.). 



10 
Amp. 




90 
Amp. 



B I 

11.7 
4.4 
8.9 ; 
1.8 ! 
1.2 I 
0.9S| 
0.78 
0.46 
0.881 
0.28 
0.18 
0.14 
0.12 
0.10 
0.00 



80 
Amp. 



40 
Amp. 

a I 6 



I 

21.7 

10.0 
6.9 
4.4 
3.1 
£.8 
1.7 
1.1 
0.77 
0.56 
0.43 
84 
0.28 
0.88 
0.19 
0.16 
0.14 
0.18 



I 

740 


' 


216 




98 




47 


7.8 85 


27 


5.1 40 


17 


8.7 28 


11 


2.9 i 21 


5 


1.8 11 


3 


1.3 6 


8 


094 4 


1 


0.78 3 


1 


0.57 2 


0.7 


0.46, 1 


0.6 


0.41 1 1 


0.4 


088 08 


0.3 


0.87t 6 1 


0.2 


0.28! 0.5 


0.8 


0.80 4 




U.18 0.4 




Diam-; 100 i I 800 
eter. Amp. i| Amp. 



0.6 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 
1.0 
1.1 
1.2 
1.8 
1.4 
1.5 
1.6 
1.7 
1.8 
1.9 
8.0 
82 
8.4 
8.6 
8.8 
8.0 
3.2 
8.4 
3.6 
3.8 
4.0 
4 ."> 
5.0 
5.5 
6.0 



W_ 

8.0 
5.8 
4.5 
8.5 
8.9 
8.4 
8.0 
1.7 
1.5 
1.3 
1.1 
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
06 
0.4 



' a 

38 
88 
, 18 
' 14 
11.5 
I 9.5 

ao 

6.8 

5.9 

5.1 

4.5 

4.0 

8.5 

I 8.1 

I 8.9 

2.4 

2.0 

1.7 

I 1.4 

1.8 

1.2 



300 
Amp. 



400 
Amp. 



Pk I * ■' Pk 



500 
Amp. 



600 
Amp. 



145 

99 I 
' 72 I 

I ^ 
i 45 
i 34 

527 

88 

18 
I 15 

13 I 

11 I 

i ® 
1 7 

i 5 

I 4 

I 8 

I 8 

'^ 

I 2 

8 



88 100 
82 76 
27 60 
84 48 
20 39 
18 
16 
14 
13 
11 

9.5 

8.0 

6.8 

5,8 

5.1 

4.5 

8.9 

3.5 

8.8 



I0r> 

78 

m. 

50l 

4a I 

851 

30 ! 

S5| 
19 1 
IG 
12 

9 

8 

6| 

5 

4 

4i 

3! 

8' 



700 
Amp. 



■5 H 



Pu 

a 



800 
Amp. 

^ I i 
a \S 



\ 900 
' Amp. 



10 j 91 
8.7 8 



7.9 
7.1 
6.4 
5.1 
4.1 



I I 



I 



■18 
38 
801; 88 
24 I 27 
18' 
15 
12 
10 

9 

7, 

61 

8 



1000 
Amp. 

a I c I 



80 



28 


241 


80 


80 


20 20| 


28 < 25 


IS ; 16 1 


88 20 


16 18, 


20 17 


14 11 


18 14 


12 


9 


16 12 


11 


8 


15 10 


9.1 


6 


11 ; 7 


7.8 


4 


9.8 1 5 


6.1 


8 


7.7 1 4 


5.1 


2 


6,4 


8 



52 
44 
86 
82 
28 
26 
29 
90 
18 
14 
11 
9.5 
7.9 



100 
76, 
60> 
47 

P6| 
SCI 
25 I 
21 ! 
18 t 
15 
12 

9 

6! 

6i 

4: 



514 



DTN AM O- ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



a 
•St 



1^ 



^^ II 



(OO««>^or0OOO>O»(N '■s» '« '«» '^' '00' 






C9 •^ .< = KK^ 









''^ « I 



SeSSomooooo o o o o o 



io©««-*tt«ei'.o«- -V »^ I* I- *f9 



p 



Sisilii! 



[i 



5-^ 



5 I "^W£ 



as 



^iiiiiiiil>i>l'i'i'i' 



iiiSi§lliisiiii|3pp 



I 5 



SS$S§Si|ps^iSi§p|Sp 



« ©♦ (NOO^^ r^ « ^ 85 



^i^n '< j: ftft^iftfeft^ftStJ^feC^Ci 



iil^ 



-8. 

§ 



1.^ 

a w 

III! g 

*'' i 

l"l 

* I 
i- . I 

c - - ^ 



INDEX. 



Advantages of the Gramme Machine, 



Alann Macliine, 114. 

Alliance Magneto • Electric Machine, 

106. 
Alternating Current Machines, 400, 491. 
Alternating Current Machine. Ferranti- 
lliomson. 438. 

Gordon's, 426. 

Gramme's, 405. 

JahlochkoflTs, 414. 

Ltacbaussee's, 422. 

Iiontin*s, 401. 

Siemens & Halske's, 416. 
Ampere, the, 76. 
Appendix, 505. 
Arago Disk Dvnamo-Electric Machine, 

396. 
Armature, Disk, 498. 

Drum, 303, 495. 

Gramme's, 221. 

Heinrich's, 298. 

Pole, 498, 500. 

Ring, 493. 499. 

Rotation of an, 54. 

Siemens', 110. 

Spool, 499. 
Ayrton & Perry's Dynamometer, 61. 

Electric Dynamometer, 88. * 

Galvanometers, 79. 

Photometer, 94 



Batterv Cells, 507. 

Bee Carcel, 91. 

Bksting Machine, Smith's, 152. 

Brackett's Dynamometer, 71. 

Brake Dynamometer, 67. 

Brushes Compound Winding, 488. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 169. 
Bunsen Photometer, 98. 
Bllrgin's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 



Candle, German standard, 91. 



Candle, Munich, 91. 

Standard, 91. 
Carcel Lamp, 91. 
Central-Magnet Machines, 367, 369, 451 

Elpliinstone & Vincent's, 454. 

Jfirgensen's, 867. 

Weston's, 369. 
C. G. S. System, 505. 
Characteristic Curve, Deprez's, 475. 
Classification of Dynamo-Electric Ma- 
chines, 491. 
Clarke's Magneto-Electric Machine, 101. 
Circuits, machines with separated, 479. 
Collector, 50, 501. 
Commutator, 102. 
Compound - Wound Dynamo - Electric 

Machines, 483, 488. 
Constant-C^urrent Machines, 492. 
Constant- Electromotive-Force Machines, 

383,481,484,486,490. 
Constant intensity, 485, 487. 

Tension, 481, 484, 486, 490. 
Continuous Current Machines, 204, 492. 

Dynamo-Electric Machines, 204. 

Magneto-Electric Machines, 204. 
Ccmversion of mechanical to electric 

force, 130, 184. 186. 
Current, division of, 95. 
Currents, alternating, 400. 

Galvanic, 26. 

Parallel, 26. 

Machines for producing divided, 

Curve, Deprez's Characteristic, 475. 



D 

Daniell, the. 76. 

Deductions from main equation, 464 

Deficiencies of the Gramme Machine, 

264 
De Meri ten's Magneto-Electric Machine. 

120. 
Deprez's Characteristic Curve, 475. 
Ghilvanometers, 79. 
Magneto-Electric Machine, 118. 
Disk Armature, 498. 

Dynamo Electric Machines, Arago, 
396. 



516 



INDBX. 



Disk Machines, Edison's, 437. 

Ferranti-Thomson's, 488. 

Hochhausen's, 451. 
Direct-Current Machines, 491. 
Division of Current, 95. 
Drum Armature, 303, 495. 
Dynamic Induction, 34. 
Dynamo-Electric Equilibrium, 459. 

Exploder; Siemens & Halske's, 149. 

Machines, 129: 
Dynamo-Electric Machine, Arago, 896. 

Brush's, 189. 

Bttrgin's, 386. 

Compared with Magneto-Electric, 
471. 

Compound-Wound, 483. 

For ConstAnt E. M. F., 481. 

Edison's. 348. 

Edison-Gramme, the, 261. 

Elphinstone & Vincent's, 454. 

Fein's, 269. 

FitB^rald's, 299. 

Fuller's, 386. 

Fuller-Gramme, 244. 

Gramme's, 225. 

Gramme's for Electric Light, 235. 
Galvanoplastics, 231. 

Gaicher's, 801. 

Hefner-Alteneck's, 303, 390. 

Hochhausen's, 160, 277 

Jurgensen's, 367. 

Ladd's, 154. 

Levett-Muller's, 422. 

Lon tin's, 384. 

McTighe's, 255. 

Maxim's, 346. 

MOhring's, 167. 

Purifying Metals, for, 318. 

Schuckert's, 271. 

Seeley's, 396. 

Shunt- Wound. 474. 

Siemens', 146. 

Siemens & Halske's, 303, 311. 

Siemens' Principle of, 129. 

Siemens & Halske's Two- Armature, 
159 

Theory of, 458, 477. 

Tliomson's, 189. 

Thomson- Houston, 189. 

Wallace Farmer's. 382. 

Weston's, 164, 320. 

Wheatstone's, 148. 

Dynamometer, Ayrton & Perry's, 61. 
Ayrton & Perry's Electric. 88. 
Brackett's, 71. 
Brake, 67. 

Electro-, of Siemens & Halske, 78. 
Grading of, 62. 
Hefner-Alteneck's, 63. 
Kent's, 67. 



E 

Edison's Disk Machines, 487. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 848. 

-Gramme Machine, 261. 

Magneto-Electric Machine, 445. 

Meter, 86. 

Motor, 120. 

Photometer, 93. 

Registering Apparatus, 85. 
Electrical Energy, 59. 

Measurements, 59. 
Electric Dynamometer, Ayrton & Per- 
ry's, 88. 
Electro-Dvnamometer, 78. 
Electro-Magnet, 15. 
Elias Machine, 219. 
Elphinstone & Vincent Machine, 454. 
Eneney, 59. 

Electrical, 59. 
Equation, Deductions from the Main, 

464. 
Equation of Equilibrium, 461. 
Equilibrium, Equation of, 461. 

Proportions for Dynamo-Electric, 
459. 
Equivalents of Mechanical and Electri- 
cal Energy, 77. 



F 



Farmer, M. G., 141. 

Fein's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 260. 

Ferranti-Tliomsoji Alternating-Current 
Machine, 433. 

Field of Force, Magnetic. 53. 

Fitzgerald's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 
299. 

Foot-Power Machine, Gramme's, 229. 

Force, Magnetic, 19. 

Magnetic Field of, 53. 

Fuller's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 886. 

Fuller-Gramme Dynamo-Electric Ma- 
chine, 244. 



G 

Galvanic Currents, 26. 

Induction, 80. 
Galvanometers, 79. 

Ayrton & Perry's. 79. 

Deprez, 79. 

Torsion, 84. 
Gordon's Alternating-Current Machine, 

426. 
Gramme Armature, Construction of, 
221. 

Altematizur-Corrent Machine, 406. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 225. 



INDEX. 



61? 



Gramme's Dynamo-Electric Machine for 
Electric Light. 286. 
AdvmntaffeB of the, 204. 
Deficiencies of the, 204. 
For Transmission of Power, 252. 
Ring. 38. 
GCLlcher's DvDamo- Elect no Machine, 
301. 

H 

Hand Machine, Gramme's, 229. 
Hefner-Alteneck's Dvnamo- Electric Ma- 
chines, 303. 890, 

DTnamometer, 6t]. 
Heinrich's Armature, 298. 
Hjorth. 148. 
Hochhansen's Disk Machines, 451. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine. 160, 277. 
Holmes' Magneto-Electric Machine, 109. 
Horse power. Different Values of, 77, 



Induction Coil, 83. 

Dynamic, 34. 

(Jalvanic, 30. 

Magnetic, 17, 36. 
Instruments, Measuring, 59. 
Intensity, Constant, by Deprez, 485. 



J 



Jablochkoff's Alternating-Current Ma- 
chine, 414. 
Candles, 124. 
Jurgensen's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 
367. 

K 

Kent Dynamometer, 67. 



Lontin*s Alternating-Current Machines, 
401. 
Dynamo- Electric Machine, 384. 
Loss of Light, 95. 



M 

Machines with Separated Circuits, 479. 
McTighe Dynamo - Electric Machine, 

255. 
Magnet, movement toward closed wire 
ring, 37. 

Steel, 23. 
Magnetic Division, 17. 

Field, 19. 

Field of Force, 53. 

Induction, 17, 36. 
Magneto-Electric Machines, 99. 

Alliance, 104. 

Clarke's, 101. 

Compared with Dynamo-Electric, 
471. 

De Men tens', 120. 

Deprez's, 118. 

Edison's, 445. 

Holmes'. 109. 

Niaudefs, 380. 

Pixii's, 99. 

Saxton's, 102. 

Siemens', 114. 

StOhrer's, 102. 

Wilde's, 114. 
Maxim's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 846. 
Measuring Instruments, 59. 
Measurements, Methods of, 59. 
Measurement of Light, 90. 
Mechanical to Electrical Force, Con- 
version of, 130, 134. 136. 
Methods of Electric Measurements, 59. 
Meter. Edison's, 85. 
Mfthring's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 

167. 
Motor, Elias, 219. 



Ninudet's Magneto-Electric Machine, 



Laboratory, Siemens & Halske's Ma 
chines for, 306. 

Lamp, Carcel, 91. O 

Ijachaussee Alternating-Current Ma- Ohm, the, 76. 
chine, 422. Ohm's I^w, 75. 

Ladd's Two-Armature Dynamo-Electric 

Machine, 154. i P 

Levett-Muller Dynamo - Electric Ma- 
chine, 422. Pacinnoti's Machine, 204. 

Light, Loss of, 95. Parti 1, 15. 

Measurement of. 90. II, 59. 

Standards of, 91. Ill, 99. 

Lines of Magnetic Force, 19. IV, 129. 



518 



INDEX. 



Part V, 204. 

VI. 400. 

VII, 458. 

Photometer, Ayrton & Perry's, 94. 

Bonsen, 93. 

Edison's, 98. 
Physics, preliminary, 16. 
Pixii's Machine, 99. 
Pole Armature, 498. 
Power, Transmission of, 253. 
Preliminary Physics, 15. 
Purifying Metals, Machines for, 318. 



B 

Registering Apparatus, Edloon's, 85. 

Register of Rotations, 74. 

Regulator, Hochhausen's, 294. 

Regulator, Thomson's, 197. 

Regulator, Wood's, 249. 

Ring Armature, 498. 

Ring- Armature Machine, Pacinnoti's, 

204. 
Ring, rotation of a, 88. 
Rotation of an Armature, 51. 

Of a Ring, 38. 
Rotations. Register of, 74 



S 



Saxton's Magneto-Electric Machine, 101. 
Schuckert's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 

271. 
Seeley's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 896. 
Shnnt- wound Dynamo - Electric Ma- 
chine, 474. 
Siemens' Armature, 110. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 146. 

Magneto>Electric Machine, 114. 
Siemens, the, 76. 

Siemens & Halske's Alternating Current 
Machine. 416. 

Dynamo-Electric Machines, 808. 

Dynamo-Electric Exploder, 149. 

Electro-Dynamometer, 78. 

Torsion Galvanometer, 84. 

Two - Armature Dynamo - Electric 
Machine, 159. 

Unipolar Machine, 455. 
Smith's Electric Blasting Machine, 152. 
Solenoid, Ampere's, 28. 
Solenoid, attraction of, 36 
Spool Armature, 499. 



Stationary - Armature Machine, Wes- 
ton's, 375. 

StOhrer's Magneto - Electric Machine, 
102. 

Strength of Current, 76. 



Tables, 508. 

Tension, Constant, by Depress, 484. 

Theory of Dynamo Electric Machines, 

458,477. 
Thomson's Constant Tension, 490. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 1^. 

Regulator, 197. 
Torsion Galvanometer, 84. 
Transmission of Power, Gramme's Ma- 
chine for, 352. 



U 

Unipolar Machine, 455. 

Units for Electrical Measurements, 75, 

505. 
Units, Tables of, 505. 



Varley, 148. 
Volt. 76. 



W 



Wallace-Farmer's Dynamo-Electric Ma- 
chine. 882. 
Weber, the, 76. 

Weston's Central - Magnet Dynamo- 
Electric Machine. 869. 

Dvnamo-Electric Machine, 164, 321. 

Machine for Constant E. M. F., 383. 

Stationary-Armature Machine, 376. 
Wheatstone, 188. 186, 141, 147. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 147. 
Wilde's Magneto-Electric Machine, 114. 
Winding, Breguet's, 497. 

Edison's, 498. 

FrOlich's, 806, 497. 

Hefner-Alteneck's, 305, 497. 

Weston's, 829, 840. 
Wire, Measurements of, 507. 

Tablesof Sizes, 608. 

Resistances, 608. 
Wood's Regulator, 249. 
Worms de Komilly's Machine, 221. 



XilST OF -V^ORKIS 



ON 



ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 

PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY 

D. TAN NOSTEAND, 

23 MURRAY AND 27 WARREN STREETS 
NEW YORK. 



POFE» F. L. The Modern Practice of the Electric Telegraph. 10th edition, re- 
vised and enlarged. 8vo, cloth. $1 50 

CONTENTS. 
Chapter 1. Origin of the Blectric Current. Chapter 6. Testing Telegraph Lines. 



8. Electro-Magnetifim. 

3. Telegraphic Circnits. 

4. The Morae or American Telegraphic 

System. 
6. Insulation. 



7. NoteH on Telegraphic Constniotion. 

8. Hints to Learners. 

9. Hecent Improvements in Telegraphic 

Practice. 
10. Appendix and Notes. 



SAWYBBi W. £. Electric Lighting by Incandescence, and its Application to 
Interior Illuminations. A Practical Treatise. With 96 illustrations. 8vo, 
cloth 2 50 

CONTENTS. 

Chapter 6 and 7. New Forms of Lamps. 

'* 8. Preservation of Incandescent Car 

bons. 
" 9. Division of Current and Light. 
" 10. Regulators and Switches. 
" 11. General Distribution. 



Introductory. 

Chapter 1. Generators of Electricity. 

" 2. Generators of the Gramme Type. 

** 8. Generators of the New Siemens 
Type. 

*' 4. Incandescent Lamps. 

'* 6. Carbons for Incandescent Lighting. 



" 12. Commercial Aspects. 

HASKINS, 0. H. The Galvanometer and its Uses. A Manual for Electricians 
and Students. 2d edition^ revised. 12mo, morocco 1 50 

INDUOTION OOILS: How Made and How Used. Second American from the 
eighth English edition. 16mo. Illustrated. (Van Noetrand's Science 
Series) 50 



DtT MONOEL, Oount TH. Electro-Magnets : The Determination of the Elements 
of their Construction $0 50 

DU MONCEL, Count; PKEECB, W. H.4 HOWELL, J. W./ and SIEMENS, 

C. W. Incandescent Electric Lights, with particnlar reference to the Edison 
Lamps at the Paris Exhibition. To which is added the economy of the Electric 
Light by Incandescence, by John W. Howell ; and on the steadiness of the 
Electric Current, by C. W. Siemens ; The Edison Electric-Light Meter, by 
Francis Jehl. (Van Nostrand's Science Series.) Illustrated. 18mo, boards. 
New York, 1883 50 

LOBING, A. E. A Ilaiid-Book of the Electro-Magnetic Telegraph. 18mo, stiff 
paper boards. Illustrated. New York, 1878. (Van Nostrand's Science Series, 

No. 39.) 50 

aoth 75 

Morocco 1 00 

PYNCHON, THOS. £. (President of Trinity College). Introtluction to Chemical 
TThysics, Heat, Light, and Electricity. 12nio, cloth. Numerous engrav- 
ings 3 00 

SABINE, ROBERT. The History and Progress of the Electric Telegraph, with . 
description of some of the apparatus. 12mo, cloth. Illustrated 1 25 

KOAD, H. M. The Student's Text-Book of Electricity. A new edition, carefully 
revised by W. H. Preece. 12mo, cloth. Illustrated 4 00 

SPANG, H. W. A Practical Treatise on Lightning Protection. With illustrations. 
New and revised edition 75 

LARRARKTi, OHAS. S. Cipher, Letter, and Telegraph Code, with Hogg's Im- 
provements. 12mo, oblong, flexible cloth. New York, 1870 1 00 

DAVIS, 0. H., and RAE, F. B. Hand-Book of Electrical Diagrams and Con- 
nections. Oblong 8vo, cloth, with thirty-two full-page illustrations. Second 
edition. New York, 1877 .' $2 00 

CONTENTS. 

1. The Key. 4. Register. 7. Leclanch6 Battery. 

2. Belay. 5. Daniel] Battery. 8. Groot Battery. 

3. Sounder. 6. Galland Gravity Battery. 

OULLEY, R. S. Hand-Book of Practical Telegraphy. Seventh edition. En- 
larged. 8vo, cloth, many plates. London, 1878 6 00 



THOltPSON, SILVANVS P. Dynamo-Electric Macliinery. A Series of Lec- 
tures, with an introt^uctioii by Frank L. Pope. 16mo. Illustrated. (Van 
Nostrand's Science Series) $0 50 

Recent Progress in Dynamo-Electric Machines, Being a supplement to 

•* Dynamo-Electric Machinery." 16mo. Illusti-ated. (Van Nostrand's Science 
Series) 50 

QOBDON, J. E. H. Pour Lectures on Static Electric Induction. 12rao, 

cloth 80 

HOPKINSON, Dr. JOHN. Dynamic Electricity : Its Modem Use and Measure- 
ment, chiefly in its application to Electric Lighting and Telegraphy, including 
fome I. Points in Electric Lighting. II. On the Measurement of Electricity 
for Commercial Purposes. By T. N. Shoolbred. III. Electric Light Arith- 
metic. By R. E. Day. lOmo, fancy boards. (Van Nostrand's Science 
Series) 50 

MONROE, JOHN, and JAMIE80N, ANDREW. A Pooket-Book of Electrical 
Rules and Tables for the use of Electricians and Engineers. 16mo, mor. 
Ptx^kct size 2 50 

GENERAL CONTENTS. 
Unite of Measarement. Submarine Cablee. Electric Lighting. 

Meannres. Telegraphy. Hiacellaneons. 

Testing. Electro-Chnraietry and Metallnrgy. Logarithms. 

Conductore. Batteries. 

Dielectrics. DynamoR and Mot^rn. 

SWINTON, A. A. 0. Electric Lighting: Its Principles and Practice. 12mo, 
cloth, fully illustrated, 180 pages. New York, 1883 1 50 

WATT, ALEX. Electro-Metallurgy, Practically Treated. New and enlarged 
edition. 12mo, cloth. New York, 1879 1 00 

I>nring the laBt few years the electro-deposition of nickel has become an important branch of |the 
art. The details of yarions proceRnep for depositing this metal have been given In the work. 



ELECTRICITY IN THEORY AND PRACTICE ; 



OK, 



THE ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. 
By LT. BRADLEY A FISKE. U. S. N. 



Third Edition. 8vo, cloth, 180 illustrations 82 50 



CONTENTS. 



Chapter 1. Magnetism. 

* S. Frictional Electricity. 

*• 8. Work and Potential. 

" 4. Voltaic RatterieH. 

*• 6. Laws of Current**. 

" 6. Secondary or Storage Batteries. 

" 7. Therrao-Electric Batteries. 

" 8. Electro-Magnetism. 

" 9. Inductlon-Ciirrents. 



Chapter 10. Electrical Measurements. 
^' 11. Telegraphy. 
18. The Telephone. 

13. The Electric Light. 

14. Electric Machines. 

15. Electro-Motors. 

16. Electric Distribation of Power. 

17. Meters. 

18. Electric Bailways. 



Electricity, Ma^etisni, and Electric Tele^aphy. 

A PRACTICAL GUIDE AND HAND-BOOK OF GENERAL INFORMATION 
FOR ELECTRICAL STUDENTS, OPERATORS, AND INSPECTORS 

By T. D. LOCKWOOD. 

Svo, cloth, 376 pages, 152 illustrations $2 60. 



CONTENTS. 



Chapter 1. Electricity Generated by Friction. 
^' 8. Voltaic Electricity. 
8. Thermo-Electricity. 
4. Earth-Currents and Earth-Batteries. 
6. Magnetism : Electro-MagnetiKm and 
Electro-Magnets. 

6. Magneto-Electricity, and Magneto and 
Dynamo- Klectnc Machines. 

7. Induction-CoilH and rondensers. 

8. Definitions of Electrical Properties, 
Terms, and Units. 

9. Electrical Measurements. 

10. Principles of Telegraphy E-^empIiiled 
in Different Systems. 

11. Voltaic Circuits. 

12. Line Construction. 
18. Subterranean and Submarine Con- 
ductors. 



Chapter 14. Office Wires, and Fittings and Instn:- 
mente. 

•' 15. Adjustment and Care of Tclegmpl. 
Instnmients. 

" 18. Circuit Faults and their Localization. 

" 17. Multiple Telegraphs. 

" 18. Miscellaneous Applications of Elec- 
tricity—Electric Lighting. 

" 19. Electro-Metallurgy. 

" 580. Electric Bells. 
21. The Telephone. 

" 22. Electro-Therapeutics. 

*' 28. other Applications of Electricity: 
Electric Clocks, Time-Balls. 
Alarms, Blasting, Transmission of 
Power, Electrical Storage. 

" 94. odds and Ends. 



/ 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC 
AND DYNAMO-ELECTRIC 

MACHINES: 



THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND PRACTICAL APPLICATION TO 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND THE TRANSMISSION 

OF POWER. 



By Dr. H. SCHELLEN, 

DIBBCTOB OP THB RBAL-OTIINABIUX AT OOLOONS, ETC., ETC.; 

AUTHOR OF "DER ELECTRO-MAOMETISCHE TELEGRAPH;'* *'DIE SPECTRAL- ANALYSE ; '* 

*' DIE 8CHULB DEB ELEMENT AR-MBCHANIK UND MABCHINENLEBBB." 



Tbanslated from the Third German Edition, 

BY 

NATHANIEL S. KEITH and PERCY NEYMANN, Ph. D 

With Very Large Additions and Notes 
Relating to American Machines, 



NATHANIEL S. KEITH, 

Secretary of The American Institute of Electrical Engineer* : and Editor of 
Scientific Department of '* The Electrical World?"" 



Vol. 1. 

\N\Til 8B3 ILLUSTFtATIONS, 
2HIRD EDJTIOy. 

I>o VAN NOSTRAND COMPANY, 

23 MuRBAY Street & 27 Warre)^ Street. 

1891. 







Copyrighty 1884, by D. Van NostratuL 



- Sum A McDonaAL, KLCcrBorrPsaay 

t MBMkin«BR«..N.Y. 




DR. SCHELLEN'S PREFACE. 



"TTTE believe we cannot introduce this new edition any 
^ ^ better than by referring to the preface of the second 
edition^ in which we gave an historical account of the evo- 
lution of magneto and dynamo-electric machines. 

The enormous progress which the application of these 
machines to illuminating purposes and transmission of 
power has made, was shown in the most elaborate manner 
at the electrical exhibitions of London, Paris, Munich, and 
Vienna. 

A large number of machines for the production of elec- 
tric light, and numerous electric lamps of all kinds, were 
shown to the wondering spectator; and proved that the 
electric light has now extensive application for the illumi- 
nation of public squares, of streets, railroad depots, dwell- 
ings and factories. 

Besides the production of electric light, the electric 
transmission of power attracted the visitors' attention. 
The motors, affording the necessary driving power, i. e.y 
the gas or steam engines, were, previous to this time, set 
up near the illuminating machine. The water power of the 
river Tsar at Munich was made use of by means of enor- 
mous turbines, originally built and employed for an entirely 
different purpose. This water power was caught at a long 
distance from where it was actually made use of, was 
transformed into electricity, and was then conducted by 
means of long wires to a distant point, where it was made 
use of for numerous illuminating and working purposes. 

With such great progress of electro-technical science in 



4 DR. SCHELLBN'S preface. 

the fields mentioned, it not only becomes a pressing desire 
of the professional, but of the intelligent public in general, 
to become familiar with the application of electricity in the 
various technical branches, and to inform itself as to its 
progress and new inventions. 

Hence the desire for information on the part of profes- 
sional circles and the educated public must be supplied by 
books which start out in an easily understood manner from 
the fundamental principles of electricity, and thus enable a 
large circle to understand these matters. That this want is 
supplied by our work in a very satisfactory manner is 
proven by the rapid succession of the two first editions. 

When this edition was taken in hand, it was evident 
from the beginning that the material to be mastered in the 
time between the Munich and the Vienna exhibitions was 
too much of all kinds, and it became more so as the desires 
of mechanics and of the author were alike to abolish the 
popular character of the previous editions of the book, and, 
while retaining the simplicity of demonstration, to assume 
a more scientific and technical treatment of the material. 
This carrying of this proposition into effect in the new 
edition was materially aided by Dr. Victor Wietlishachy 
lecturer on technical electricity at the Polytechnic of 
Zurich, who, by reason of his works for various electrical 
magazines, and as director of the Zurich Telephone Com- 
pany, seemed likely to be sufficiently experienced in the 
subject in general to assist and improve the present work. 

We can therefore mention as a material alteration and 
Improvement which distinguishes this edition, that the 
units of measure, decided upon at the Paris Convention and 
now uniformly adopted, and also the various mechanical 
contrivances (FoZf-meter, J.77ip^re-meter, Electro-dyna- 
mometer, measures of consumption of electricity) have 
been taken up, and their use in practical measurements 
fully discussed. 



I>B, SCHELLENS PBEFACB. 5 

That all details of construction in regard to data about 
machines, lamps and their performances^ have been given 
in the new electric units is self-evident. 

In the first editions of the work the novelty of the sub- 
ject and often as well the secrets retained by the inventors 
and constructors gave rise to irregularities of data and to 
incomplete illustrations. 

The author was, therefore, with the aid of his co-worker, 
bent upon removing all irregularities and doubts of this 
kind, by personal investigation and measurements, when- 
ever possible to collect exact data. The figures and measure- 
ments so obtained are found in a series of most important 
tables, partly distributed through the book and partly at 
the end of the book in a separate appendix. 

The understanding of the various dynamo-electric ma- 
chines is materially aided by introducing a classification 
of the same and by referring to a few fundamental types, 
among which the now much employed compound machine, 
which created so much attention at the Vienna exhibition, 
has been considered. 

On account of the great importance of the so-called 
large machines (Grossmachinen), especial care has been 
bestowed upon their construction and working power in 
this new edition ; we mention in this respect only the large 
machines of Edison, Ferranti, Thomson, Oordon, Brush, 
Weston, and others. 

The arc light and also the incandescent light descrip- 
tions have been entirely revised ; the Edison system espe- 
cially has received an account corresponding to the latest 
communications of all details in theoretical and practical 
respects. 

The latest experiences in the way of the important ques- 
tions of canalization of electricity and the electrical transfer 
of power have received no less detailed consideration by 
publication of the theories of Dr. Froelich and Marcel Deprez. 



C DR. SCHELLEN'S FBEFACK. 

It is clear that it could only be possible to give the new 
edition of this book the valuable consents and numerous 
illustrations (their number being almost doubled) if the 
author could count upon a large circle of scientists and 
mechanics who would concede to his wishes in the widest 
manner. 

We have not been disappointed in this respect, and 
therefore fulfill our pleasant duty of thanking all those 
most warmly who by their material aid have helped com- 
pile this work* Thanks are especially due to my co-worker 
Dr. V. Wietlisbachy who with untiring zeal performed the 
work intrusted to him. 

We moreover express our thanks to those scientists and 
technical societies who have so materially aided us by com- 
municating the results of their labors — among which are 
in the first instance, the privy chancellor Dr. W. Siemens^ 
Professor Silvanus P. Thompson^ the German Edison Com- 
pany, the companies of the U. 8. Electric Lighting Co., 
the Fuller Electrical Co., the Brush Electric Co., the 
Levett'Miiller Electric Light Co., etc. These thanks are not 
less due to the publisher, who has watched the most careful 
typographical work with restless care. May the third 
edition find the same appreciation which was so richly 
bestowed upon the previous ones. 

THE AUTHOR. 

Cologne, Nov. 1888. 



EDITOR'S PREFACE. 



TTTE need not apologize for translating Dr. Schellen'si 
^ ^ work. The favor with which it has been received 
by those who read the German language, and its plain and 
simple style of explanation, induced us to begin trans- 
lating it for the American readers and students in elec- 
tricity, while yet in its first edition. Owing to unavoidable- 
delays we did not complete the translation until th^ an- 
nouncement of the third and last Gterman edition. Mean- 
time we had accumulated data relating to American elec- 
tric machines, which we could with advantage add to the 
descriptions of Dr. Schellen. But he had likewise increased 
his fund of information, so that in issuing the third edition 
he was obliged to divide his book into two volumes. We 
have done the same ; making, as he has, the first volume 
treat only upon apparatus for generating electric currents^ 
and for measuring the currents so generated, and their 
effects. 

We have added descriptions of many dynamos and allied 
apparatus made and extensively used iu this country. Some 
of these machines were not mentioned in the German work ; 
but they demanded notice because of their novelty, effi- 
ciency, or notoriety. We have also more fully set forth the 
features of construction, operation, and qualities of some of 
those described in the original. 

We acknowledge our indebtedness to Messrs. Thomas A. 
Edison, Edward Weston, Charles F. Brush, William Hoch- 
hausen, Leonard E. Curtis, C» O. Mailloux, James J. Wood,. 



8 editor's preface. 

Prof, Henry Morton, Prof. Moses G. Farmer, and Prof. Elihu 
Thomson ; and to The Brush Electric Co., of Cleveland, O.; 
the Excelsior Electric Co., of New York; the Fuller Elec- 
trical Co., of New York; the Gramme Electrical Co., of 
New York ; the Rend-rock Powder Co., of New York ; the 
Thomson-Houston Electric Co., of Boston; the McTighe 
Electric Light and M'fg Co., of Pittsburgh; the United 
States Electric Lighting Co., of New York; and to The 
Electrical Worlds for information and assistance so cheer- 
fully furnished to us in our work. 

The object of our notes upon Dr. Schellen's text is to 
endeavor to make clear that which we could not agree 
with, and to supplement his descriptions for the possible 
advantage of the reader. This has not been done dog- 
matically, but with a sincere desire to help the reader. If 
we have made mistakes in these matters, they have come 
from the head and hand, not the heart. 

The reader may complain that we have not considered 
«ome particular one of th^ many machines which have been 
or are in use. If so, we answer in advance : To describe 
all of the dynamo-electric and magneto-electric machines 
which have taken name up to the present would require a 
book many times as large as this, and with a tiresome 
repetition of description having only slight variations. 

A change of a screw here, a shaft there, an alteration of 
^eld-magnets, a long or a short armature, in endless 
variety, does not make a new machine, though a new 
name may be given it. 

We have considered nearly all of the most prominent of 
the machines which have been, or are now made. They 
sufSce to illustrate the subject. As others come to the 
front we shall be pleased to illustrate and describe them in 
future editions. 

The subject is a live and a growing one. New features 
are constantly being developed, and the morrow may bring 



EDITOR S PREFACE. 9 

■forth that which may further astonish the world, judging 
by that which has been accomplished within the past five 
years. But, if our theories are correct, the only improve- 
ments likely to be made are those relating to details of con- 
struction on the road to perfection. 

With these few words of explanation, we commit our 
work to the kind indulgence of our readers. 

N. S. KEITH. 
New York, July, 1884. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 

PRELIMINARY PHYSICS, 
'CacTKni PASS 

1. The Electro-Magnet 16 

2. Action of a Magnet on Soft Iron 17 

8. Magnetic Field ; Lines of Magnetic Force 19 

4. Ampere's Solenoid 28 

5. Reciprocal Action of Galvanic Carrents on each other 26 

. •6. Galvanic Induction 80 

7. Dynamic Induction 84 

8. Magnetic Induction 86 

9. Movement of a Magnet towards a Closed Wire Ring 37 

10. Rotation of a Ring having a Continuous Coil of Wire on it between 

the Poles of a Magnet ; Gramme Ring. 88 

11. Rotation of an Armature over the Poles of a Magnet 51 

12. The Magnetic Field of Force 58 

PART II- 

7ME METHODS OF ELECTRIC MEASUREMENTS ANP MEAS- 
URING INSTRUMENTS. 

18. Electrical Energy 59 

•14. Ayrton & Perry's Dynamometer 61 

15. Yon Hefner-Alteneck's Dynamometer. 68 

16. The Brake Dynamometer 67 

17. The Kent Dynamometer 67 

18. The Bracket Dynamometer 71 

19. Register of Rotations 74 



12 CONTENTS. 

BScnoK PAOir 

. 20. Ohm's Law and the Units of Electric Measurement 75 

21. Electro-Dynamometer made by Siemens & Halske 78 

22. The Galvanometers (Ammeter and Voltmeter) of Ayrton & Perry 

and Deprez 79 

28. Siemens & Halske's Torsion Qalvanometer 84 

24. Edison's Registering Apparatus. 85 

25. The Electric Dynamometer. 88 

26. Measurement of Light 90- 

27. Division of Current 95- 



PART III. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

28. The Magneto-Electric Machines of Pixii, Saxton & Clarke 99 

29. Stohrer's Magneto-Electric Machine 102 

80. The large Magneto Electric Machines of the Soci^t€ 1' Alliance and 

Holmes, 104 

81. The Siemens Armature 110 

82. Wilde's Magneto-Electric Machine 114 

88. Deprez's Magneto-Electric Machine. 118 

84. The De Meritens Machine 120- 



PART IV. 

DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

85. Siemens* Principle of Dynamo-Electric Machines, and the claims of 

others on that point 129' 

86. Siemens' Dynamo-Electric Machine 146 

87. Siemens & Halske's Dynamo-Electric Alarm and Mine Exploder 149 

88. Smith's Electric Blasting Machine 152 

89. Ladd's Two-Armature Dynamo-Electric Machine 154 

40. Siemens & Halske's Two-Armature Dynamo-Electric Machine 159 

41. Hochhausen's Dynamo-Electric Machine for Gkilvanoplastic Purposes 160 

42. Weston's Dynamo-Electric Machine for Galvanoplastic Purposes 164 

48. Mohring and Baur's Dynamo-Electric Machine 167 

44. The Brush Light Machine 169 

45. The Thomson Spherical- Armature Dynamo-Electric Machine 189^ 



CONTENTS. 13^ 



PART V. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC AND DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES FOR 
THE PRODUCTION OF CONTINUOUS CURRENTS. 

SXOnOH PAOS 

46. Pacinnoti's Ring Machine 204 

47. The Elias Machine and that of Worms de Romilly 219* 

48. Construction of the Qramme Armature 221 

49. The Qramme Machine 225- 

50. Tlie Qramme Machine for Hand or Poot-Power 229- 

51. The Qramme Large Dynamo-Electric Machine for Qalvanoplastic 

Purpodes 231 

62. Qramme Large Dynamo-Electric Machines for Electric Light 235 

58. The Fuller-Qramme Machine 244 

54. Machines for the Transmission of Power by Electricity 252 

55. The McTighe Machine 255- 

56. The Edison-Qramme Machine 261 

67. Deficiencies of the Qramme Machine 264 

58. Fein's Dynamo-Electric Machine 269 

59. Schuckert's Dynamo-Electric Machine 271 

60. The Hochbausen Machines 279 

61. The Canallized-Ring Armature of Heinrich's 298 

62. Fitzgerald's Machine 299 

68. The Qiilcher Machine 801 

64. Siemens & Halske's Magneto and Dynamo-Electric Cylinder Machines, 

System v. Hefner- Alteneck 303 

65. The Siemens-Halske Small Machines for Laboratory Purposes 806 

66. Siemens-Halske Dynamo-Electric Machines for Electric Illumination 

and Qalvanic Deposition 311 

67. Siemens & Halske's Dynamo-Electric Machines for Purifying Metals 318 
Hochhausen's and Edison's Machines for the same uses. 821 

68. The Weston Electric Light Machines 821 

69. Maxim's Machine 346 

70. The Edison Dynamo-Electric Machines 348 

71. Jurgensen's Machine 867 

72. Weston's Central-Magnet Machine 369 

78. Weston's Stationary- Armature Machine 875 

74. Niaudet's Magneto-Electric Machine 880^ 



14 CONTENTS. 

tECnON PAOE 

76. The Wallace-Parmer Light Machine 882 

^ 76. Lontin's Dynamo-Electric Machine 384 

77. Burgin's Dynamo-Electric Machine 886 

78. Hefner- Alieneck's Latest Dynamo-Electric Machine 8^ 

79. Arago DiBk-Armature Dynamo 396 

PART VI. 

JLATER ALTERNATING CURRE;NT MACHINES FOR THE FRO, 
DUCTION OF 3BV^RAl^ CURRENTS. 

SO. Lontin's Altemating-Ourrent Machiq^ 401 

61. Gramme's Machine for Alternating Currents 405 

83. The Jablochkoff Machine for Alternating Currents 414 

Sd. Siemens & Halske's Alternating-Current Machine , 4^6 

84. The Levet^Muller Machine 422 

85. The Lachauss^e Machine 424 

.86. Gordon's Alternating-Current Machine. . , 426 

87. The Ferranti-Thomson Altemating-tCurreot Machine 483 

:88. Edison's Disk Machines 437 

89. Edison's Magneto-Electric Machine 445 

90. Hochhausen's Disk Machines. , 451 

91. The Elphinstone and Vincent Machine, 454 

92. The Unipolar Machine 4f55 

PART VII. 

THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

^8. Proportions for Dynamo-Electric Equilibrium 469 

94. Testing the Equation of Equilibrium 461 

95. Deduction from the Main Equation 464 

96. Dependence of the Eflfective Magnetism on Strength of Current 467 

97. Comparison of Dynamo-Electrio with Magneto-Electric Machines . . 471 

98. Marcel Deprez's Characteristic Curve 475 

99. The Theory of Dynamo Machines 477 

100. Machines with Separated Currents ,,.... 479 

101. Dynamo Machines of Constant Electromotive Force 481 

102. Combination, or Compound Machines 488 

103. Classification of Dynamo^Electric Machines 491 

104. Collectors 501 




PART I. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



Pio.«. 



A B 
EUctro-Magntt. 



1 . The Electro-magrnet. A piece of soft iron, 
AR (Fig. 1) has the property of becoming a magnet when a 
galvanic current 

Pig. 1 ^ 

^^ flows m a wire, 
J^S^^ ^' encircling it in 
^■■H a direction per- 
^^k ^1 pendicular to its 
^1 ^1 length. Gener- 
al ^1 ally, in practice, 
W ^r this piece of soft 
iron is made to 
take somewhat 
the shape of a horseshoe, and 
is wound with insulated cop- 
per wire in spiral convolu- 
tions as nearly perpendicular 
as possible to the iron core, 
in such manner as to have 
the convolutions take the 
same direction on both limbs 
of the horseshoe, supposing 

it to be a straight piece. The EUctr..Magn.t ^Uk Armature. 

copper wires are insulated by being covered with threads 
of silk, cotton, or other fibrous, non-conducting material. 
If the ends of the wire coils be connected with the poles 
of a galvanic battery, the iron will become strongly mag- 




16 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

netiCy and continue so during the continuance of the cur* 
rent. One end of the core will have north and the other 
south polarity. 

The core and coils AB (Fig. 2) constitute an electro 
magnet ; that piece of iron, D, which is attracted by the 
poles of the magnet is called an armature. 

The following rule serves for the (ietermination of the 
respective polarities of the two limbs of the magnet. Con-- 
aider the wire in which the current flows (xa pendant before 
the observer, the lower end connected with the positive pole 
of the battery, and the current flowing upward ; then, if the 
core is at the left of the wire the end pointing to the observer 
is the north pole and the other the south pole. The reverse 
is the case if the core is at the right of the wire. 

Another rule : Consider the end of the electro-magnet 
turned toward the observer ; if the wire proceeding from the 
positive pole of the battery has the direction of the hands of 
a clock, i, e., over toward the right, that end is the south pole 
and the other the north. If the wire has the reverse direc-^ 
tion the ends of the core have the reverse polarities. 

The strength of the magnetism is dependent upon several 
conditions : such as the quantity of iron in the core, the 
nimaber of convolutions of the wire, and the quantity of 
galvanic current flowing in the wire. The magnetism 
ceases almost entirely on discontinuing the current. 

By rapidly making and breaking the galvanic circuity 
thus allowing a current to flow and cease, alternately, in 
the wire coil, the core is with the same rapidity magnetized 
and demagnetized. By changing the direction of the cur- 
rent, or in other words changing the ends of the wire coils 
from pole to pole of the battery, which can be done by hand, 
or in case of regular or rapid change by an instrument 
called a commutator, the poles will assume successively 
opposite polarities, depending upon the direction of the 
current from the positive pole of the battery, as before 



PBBLIMINABY PHYSICS. 17 

noted. The nearer pure and the softer the iron the 
stronger is the magnetism produced in it by the current ; 
and the more nearly completely does it lose it on stopping. 

Some time is always necessary^ however short, before 
the magnetism can reach its maximum, and a correspond- 
ing time is taken in resinning its previous non-magnetic 
condition. This latter term, however, is merely relative, 
as experience has shown that iroij which has once been 
magnetized does not, under ordinary circmnstances, lose 
its magnetism completely. This remaining magnetism is 
called residual. 

2m .Action of* SL Al!£igTiet on Soil Ii^oii* 

[Magnetic Division, or Magnetic Induction.] If a piece of 
soft iron, s n, Fig. 3, be brought near the pole iV of a 
magnet, it will become magnetic by the influence of the 
magnet 8 N. The end of the piece of soft iron nearest the 
magnetic pole will assume opposite polarity, while the 
other end will have the same polarity as the pole of the 
magnet. This phenomenon is called magnetic division.'*' 
The soft iron, however, only 
retains its polarity while un- 
der the influence, i. e,, within 
the sphere of action of the 
influencing magnet. If it be 
removed from the field of 
magnetic force it loses the .^ ...... 

induced magnetism ; and the 

more rapidly and completely the purer and softer the iron is. 
If the bar of iron, s n, be moved upward by the pole iV, of 
the magnet, the south pole s of the bar will be displaced 
and move along the bar as it is raised, so that when the 

•The expreesioD "magnetic induction," or "magDet induction," we shaU 
only use in the caae where galvanic carrents are induced by a magnet 




18 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



lower end comes opposite the N pc^e of the magnet, it will 
have south polarity, and the end which formerly had south 
will have north polarity. If, as in Fig. 4, a soft iron ring 
he placed so that it may rotate on its axis between the 
poles N and ^S of a horseshoe magnet, there will be gener- 
ated in the ring opposite poles, on a line joining the two 
poles of the magnet, passing across the ring as shoMrn at 
n sj while at points on the ring 90° distant, O O', the two 
magnetic polarities neutralize each other. 

Pig. 4. 




Displacement of the Poies in a Rotating Ring. 

If the ring be rotated the poles n s retain their same po- 
sition between the poles of the influencing magnet, but 
move along the ring opposite to the direction of rotation, 
and at equal speed. So, in effect, the polarities of the ring 
move progressively in it, but the poles and neutral line 
OO' always retain the same position in space. 

This matter is changed somewhat if the ring be rotated 
rapidly. The induced magnetism does not disappear im- 
mediately from the parts of the ring as they recede from 
the magnet poles N and S. Take a part , of the ring 
approaching N ; it rapidly acquires magnetism as this part 
comes under N, but it does not as rapidly lose it in passing 
from 8 to O', by reason of the greater length of time re- 
quisite to discharge. From about the neutral point O' to 
the next pole S, a rapid increase in magnetism again takes 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 19 

place^ which is somewhat retained as before, and then 
gradually decreases to zero at about O. It will be seen 
from this that the points of strongest magnetic intensity are 
not directly on the line from N to S, but that the magnetism 
is somewhat spread in the direction of the circumference 
of the ring, and that from s to O', and from n to O, length- 
ened poles, so to speak, are formed. In consequence of 
this the line of neutrality O O' is not at 90'' exactly from 
the magnet poles N S, but somewhat in advance of that 
line in the direction of the rotation of the ring, 

Fw.6. 




Magnetic Lines of Force, 

3. The IVIagrnetlc Field ; the ILiines of 
IMagnetic F'orce. The external action of a magnet 
depends upon many circumstances, but has an extent 
according to the strength of the magnetization and the 
form of the magnet, to an indefinite distance from the 
magnet in all directions, and with varying degrees of 
intensity. The area of magnetic activity of the poles of a 



20 



DYNAMO-RLECTBIC MACHINES. 



magnet is called the sphere of activity of the pole, or sim- 
ply the magnetio field; although strictly speaking the 



rio.6. 




Magnetic Lines of Force of both Poles of a Bar Magnet. 



PBBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 



31 



Fio. 



latter term ooaveys another meaning. [It is also called 
4he field of force. — ^K.] 

The influence ex- 
plained in § 2 mani- 
fests itself only when 
the bar s n (Fig. 3) is 
in the magnetic field 
-of the inducing mag- 
net S N. * When the 
har is within this field 
and tKe magnetic at- 
traction exceeds the 
weight of the bar s w, 
And it is free to move, 
then it will move to- 
ward the magnet S N. 
A second small bar of 
soft iron, if brought 
near the pole n, will 
also be influenced so 
powerfully that the 
magnetic attraction 
will become greater 
than the weight of 
the bar. In this man- 
ner one can proceed to 
attach more smaller 
bars. 

The magnetic influence is also exerted through neutral 
bodies, as, for instance, glass plates, pasteboard, etc. If a 
plate of such material is sprinkled with iron filings and it 
is approached by either pole of an ordinary bar magnet 
from below, until in contact, the filings will arrange them- 
jselves as is represented in Fig. 5. According to this the 
individual particles of iron may be considered as easily 







Magnetic Lints of Force of two Parallel Magnets. 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIO MAOHINBS. 



Fio. 8. 



movable magnetic bars which arrange themselves in reg- 
ular curves. As the 
line from pole to 
pole of each one of 
these minute bars 
assumes a position 
parallel to the mag- 
netic lines of force 
of the magnet, they 
may be said to map 
out or define those 
lines, and to repre- 
sent graphically the 
lines of force of the 
N and S poles of the 
magnet. 

In the illustra- 
tions (Fig. 5 and 6) 
the lines are bound- 
ed by the limits of 
the engraving, but 
all represent sec- 
tions of closed lines, 
some of which ex- 
tend indefinitely in 
space. When twa 
or more magnetic 
bars are placed in 
neighborhood, the lines of force are modified in direction. 
When two bars are placed with their opposite poles near 
together under the plate, the lines of force shown by the 
arrangement of the filings are as shown in Fig. 7. A 
materially different picture is shown in Fig. 8, where like 
poles of two bar magnets are placed near together under 
the plate. The form of the curves in the illustrations is due? 




Magnetic Lines of Force of tvto Parallel Magnets, 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



to obedience of the law under which magnetic attraction 
exists: — '4ike poles repel, and unlike poles attract each 
other." Fig. 9 shows the lines due to one pole of a bar 
magnet when a smaller piece of iron is near it. 

[The method pursued in making and fixing such mag- 
netic spectra is explained in § 12, p. 55. — £.J 



Fio. 0. 




Magnetic Lines o/ Force, Bar Magnet and Piece of Iron, 

4Lr. ^mpdre's Solenoid. The Steel Magnet as 
a Systeniy or SerieSy of Galvanic Currents. Two galvanic 
currents act like two magnets, attracting or repelling each. 



M 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Pig. 10. 



? 



wmmjmm 



Amphre't Solenoid. 



Fig. 10a. 



other according to their directions. A simple wire helix, 
(Fig. 10a), whose convolutions are perpendicular to its 
length, behaves like a steel magnet when a galvanic cur- 
rent passes through it. If such a 
spiral of copper wire (Fig. 10) be sus- 
pended by its upturned ends in two 
cups Wntaining mercury, so that 
it can easily turn, and if the mer- 
cury of the cups be connected with 
the poles of a galvanic battery, so 
that a current passes through the 
wire spiral, the spiral will show all 
the properties of a common steel 
magnet ; it has north and south poles, and takes its posi- 
tion in the plane of the meridian, pointing very nearly 
north and south like a magnetic needle. 
If two such spirals are placed in proxim- 
ity, the like named poles repel, and the 
unlike poles attract each other ; the polar- 
ity of the ends is determined by the rules 
given in 1. Amp6re, to whom we are in- 
debted for the main rules of electro- 
dynamics, termed such a spiral, through 
which a galvanic current passes, a sole- 
noid. 
The action of a galvanic current flowing in a wire 
wound spirally around a bar of iron, as is shown in Fig. 1, 
upon the iron, and the like properties shown by the sole- 
noid, led Ampere to a new idea as to the nature of a steel 
magnet. According to his theory every molecule of a 
magnet is regarded as being encircled by a galvanic cur- 
rent which returns to itself. All these elementary currents 
are infinitely small, infinitely close together, and all have 
the same direction, which is perpendicular to one line, the 
Axis of the magnet. This idea is shown in Fig. 11, which 




A Helical Current. 



PRBLIMINABY PHYSICS. 



25 



Fio.ll. 




MoUcular Currtnis. 



Fio. 15. 




represents a section perpendicular to the 
axis of a magnetic core. The directions of 
these Amperean currents in every two ad- 
joining molecules are opposite at all tangent 
pointy, and hence neutralize each other. 
Therefore it will be seen that only the cur- 
rents of the exterior molecules are effective 
in producing magnetism. Instead of a 
single molecular current circulating in 
every part of the steel core, there is a cur- 
rent circulating in the exterior molecules which is the result 
of the action and reaction of the currents due to all the 
molecules. 

If we adopt Ampire^s idea 
of the nature of a magnet it is 
conclusive that it is a number 
of closed series of single gal- 
vanic currents parallel to one 
another, and flowing in the 

same direction ; which is that taken by the hands of a watch 
when the south pole is turned towards the observer. This is 
shown by Figs. 12 and 12a. If the north 
pole be turned toward the observer the 
currents will evidently circulate in a 
direction opposite that of the hands of a 
watch. 

Notwithstanding the similarity be- 
tween the solenoids and magnets, they 
differ in their action in so far that the 
poles of a solenoid are the extreme ends, while those of the 
magnets are somewhat distant from the ends towards the 
tody of the magnet. This is due to the assistance which 
the small closed circuits afford one another. The more 
nearly the form of the magnet approaches that of a thread, 
thereby approximating the small, elementary, molecular 



TAe system of Galvanic Currents in a 
Steel Magnet. 



Fie. ISa. 




26 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

currents, the nearer the poles are to the ends. The later 
investigations of Gaugain have shown that other differ- 
ences exist between solenoids and magnets ; that in order 
to apply the theory of the action of the currents to that of 
solenoids the magnets must be considered as solenoids, or 
systems of currents, which are at equal distances from one 
another, but their intensities varying according to a fixed 
law. Or, they may be considered systems of currents all 
having the same intensity, combined in a single current, 
the convolutions of which are at unequal distances from 
one another, varying under a fixed law, 

^. Ifceciprocal Auction of" Gralvanic 
CixirentH on ea,eli othei*. Attraction of an 
Iron Bar by a Solenoid. After it had been established that 
a magnet acts like a solenoid, and as two magnets or two 
solenoids have attraction or repulsion for each other, it was 
to be expected that two galvanic currents would attract or 
repel each other according to their relative directions. 
Ampere discovered the following laws governing electro- 
dynamic actions : 

1. Parallel currents having the same direction attract 
each other. 

2. Parallel currents having opposite directions repel 
each other. 

3. Currents not parallel (crossing each other) have the 
tendency to run parallel and in the same direction. 

That the two first laws correspond to the fundamental 
law of magnetism, "opposite poles attract and like poles 
repel each other," is shown in the previous section, and 
graphically in Fig. 13. 

According to these same laws it follows that a solenoid 
must attract and draw into itself an iron bar, if the bar is 
freely movable along the axis of the solenoid, and if the 
attraction is greater than the resistance offered by the bar 




PBBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 27 

ix) motion^ such as from gravity. Tha* is to say, when 
brought sufficiently near to the solenoid the bar will be 
influenced by the same, and in consequence currents paral- 
lel to themselves will be in- 
duced in the bar, having the 
same direction as the current in 
the solenoid. If we consider 
this current in the solenoid as 
a system of currents paraUel to 
themselves and of the same di- 
rection we will see the similarity 
between solenoid and magnet 
currents. The attraction be- sueiMagneuasSystenuofGiUtNMic 

CurrtnU, 

tween the solenoid currents in 

wire and bar are exactly neutralized when the bar has 
assumed a central position within the solenoid, but at once 
becomes active if the bar be moved outward at either end. 
So the influence is exerted to keep the bar at the central 
position. For illustration, if we imagine a solenoid and a 
bar of nearly the same size, divided into, say, ten equal 
parts, and the bar within the solenoid, so that the several 
divisions of each are on the same planes, the mutual at- 
tractions are balanced. Now, if, for further consideration, 
we call the currents above the centre + , and those below 
the center — , and designate the currents by fc, and their 
attractive forces by the nimibers shown opposite the divi- 
sions of bar and solenoid in Fig. 14, then we can construct 
the following table to show the magnitude of attraction 
at each of the 10 stages of movement of the bar toward 
and within the solenoid. See Fig. 14 and 14a for the 
graphic illustration. 



28 DYNAMO-ELBGTRIO MACHINES. 

0. 5fc + 4fc + 3A: 4- 2A: + A; = 15k. 

1. 5A: + 5A: + 4fc + 3A; + 2A: = 19fc. 

II. (5A; - fc) + 5A: + 6fc + 4fc + 3fc + 2fc + fc = 24fc. 

III. (5A: - 2k) + (5fc - fc) + 5A; 4- 6A: + 4fc + 3fc+2fc+fc=27fc.. 

IV. {6k - 3fc) + {5k - 2k) + {5k- k) + 5k + 5k + 4k + dk 

+ 2fc + fc = 29A;. 
V. (5A; - 4fc) + (5fc - 3k) + {5k - 2k) + {5k - fc) + 5fc + 5k: 

+ 4fc + 3A: + 2fc +fe = 30A:. 
VI. (4A: - 5k) + {5k - 4k) + {5k - 3k) + {5k - 2k) + {5k-ky 

+ 6fc + 5A: + 4fc + 3A: 4- 2fc = 2Sk. 
VII. (3fc - 5A;) 4- (4fc - 5k) 4- (5fc - 4A:) 4- (6fc-3A:) 4- (5fc-2fc) 
4- (5fc - A:) 4- 5fc 4- 5fc 4- 4fc 4- 3fc = 24A:. 
VIII. (2A: - 5k) 4- (3A; - 5A;) 4- (4A; - 5k) + (5fc-4fc) 4- (5fc-3A;)' 
4- {5k - 2k) 4- {5k — A:) 4- 5fe + 5fc 4- 4A: = 18A:. 
IX. (fc - 5k) + {2k - 5k) + {Sk - 6fc) 4- (4A: -6fc) 4- (6fc-4fc); 
4- {5k - 3k) + {5k - 2A:) 4- (5fc - fc) 4- 6A: + 5fc = lOA:.. 
X. - 5A: 4- (A: - 5A:) 4- (2A: - 5A:) 4- (3A: - 6A;) 4- {4k -5k) 4- 
(5A; - 4k) + {5k - 3k) + {5k - 2A:) 4- (6A: -A;) 4-6fc=0.- 

Although this calculation was made for a special case^ 
and without taking into account the distance of a solenoid 
section from a section of the bar, still it shows the changes* 
of the magnitude of the attractive force with the move- 
ment to or fro of either solenoid or bar. According to this^ 
if a cylindrical iron bar is brought in the direction of its- 
axis, near to a helix of wire through which a current is 
flowing, the bar will be drawn into the coil until the centre 
of the bar is in a plane with the centre of the coil. The^ 
force with which the bar is drawn in reaches its maximum 
when one end of the bar is in a plane with the centre of the 
coil, and gradually diminishes as both centres approach 
each other until it comes to zero, when the centres come to 
the same plane. 

This law holds good only when the bar has a straight 
cylindrical form. If we imagine each of the bars in Fig.. 15. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



29 



Fig. 14. 



Fio. 14a. 



to be composed of double coues with their bases together, so 
far as the mass is concerned, then 
the force exerted by a solenoid upon 
one or another will be uniform 
for any considerable movement 
along their lengths, in any of the 
cases. Fig. 15 shows a number 
of such bars, which, from their 
originator, are called Erizik's bars. 
These are susceptible of many ap- 
plications, such as in cases where 
their movements are desired to be of considerable length 
under smaU changes of magnetism. They may be used 





Attractt'gn/or an Iron Bar by 
a Solenoid. 



Fig. 16. 



Fio. 16. 





Position* of a Krizik's core in eguiii- 
brium between two Solenoids, 



KriMiks Bars. 

with one solenoid and a counter- 
acting spring, or weight ; or with 
two solenoids acting in opposi- 
tion, one at each end of a bar. 

Take for examples the cases 
shown in diagram . in Fig. 16. 

S S S represent a solenoid in a main circuit of an electric 
lamp, and S' S' S' represent a solenoid of equal magnetic 
strength in a circuit shunted around the light. The cores, 
in the three positions shown are equally attracted by the 
solenoids as long as their magnetic moments are equal, but 
the slightest preponderance of attraction in either solenoid 



W DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

<saus6S the movement of the bar in the direction to the 
stronger. This action is under the law governing derived 
<5ircuits, which will be considered in Section 27. 

e. Gralvanic Indixction. A galvanic current 
in a wire can generate in an adjacent wire, which is a part 
of a circuit, another galvanic current. This phenomenon 
is called Induction. Faraday, who discovered in 1830 this 
method of generating currents, distinguished galvanic in- 
duction from dynamic^ by referring the former to induction 
from the battery current in a wire at rest, and the latter to 
induction from the same source in a wire in motion. Gal- 
vanic induction takes place under the following condi- 
tions : — If a wire closed upon itself, or, constituting part 
of a circuit of conducting material, be brought in the vicin- 
ity of another wire, or conductor, through which a current 
is passing, a current will be generated in the former named 
wire. Also a current will be generated in the wire if the 
current flowing in the latter named wire be stopped or 
started. This secondary current generated by the primary 

Fio. 17. 
0/ 




i: 






-|#- 



Ga/vanic Induction. 



current is called an induced, or induction, current. For an 
illustration of this phenomenon imagine in Fig. 17 a gal- 
vanic battery, B, and the continuous conducting wire, A C. 
In the vicinity of this arrangement the wire D E is situ- 
ated, having in its circuit the galvanometer G. As the 
wire D E is not in connection with the battery, there is, 



PBBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 81 

ordinarily, no current passing through it, and so the needle 
of the galvanometer rests at zero. If, however, the cur- 
rent from the battery be started, as it shoots through the 
conductor A C, an induction current is generated in D E, 
but in a direction opposite to the current in A C, as is 
fihown by the deflection of the needle of the galvanometer. 
The induction current in D E hds only a very short dura- 
tion; it only appears for a moment and then ceases^ 
although the primary current from the battery B may con- 
tinue in the wire A C. Hence the needle of the galva- 
nometer G, receives but one impulse to move it from zero, 
and vibrates to and fro as usual when disturbed, until it 
shortly comes to rest again at zero, notwithstanding the 
continuation of the primary current in A C. 

If, now, the current in A C be stopped, at the moment of 
stoppage a new induced current in D E is generated, 
which has the same direction as that which was flowing in 
A C, but also of extremely short duration. The summary, 
Ihen, is, 

1st. That galvanic induced currents are of extremely 

short duration. 
2d. That on every closing of the primary circuit the in- 
duced current in the secondary circuit is opposite 
to the direction of the current in the primary ; and 
that on every opening of the primary circuit the in- 
duced current takes the same direction as the pri- 
mary current. 
If the battery circuit were opened and closed 500 times a 
minute there would be generated in a neighboring conduc- 
tor 1000 induced currents which would have alternately 
opposite directions. The strength of the induced current 
is proportional to the strength of the primary current ; it is 
also dependent upon the distance apart of the primary and 
secondary conductors, and upon the lengths of the parts of 
the conductors within the sphere of induction. The total 




32 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

inductive action between A C and D E is the sum of the 
small effects which the many elementary currents in A C 
have upon the many elementary circuits of the wire D E, 
The induced current, therefore, increases in D E in proper* 
tion to the number of effective elementary circuits (Am- 
pftBE's) ; hence with the length of the two wires. 

These facts serve as a guide in the making of apparatus 
by which strong induced currents may be generated. An 

apparatus is shown in Fig. 18 
for the purpose, which consists 
of two wire circuits, brought 
as closely together as. practi- 
cally possible, and parallel. 
For the purpose the wires are 
carefully insulated by being 
covered with a thin coating of 
silk, or other non-conducting 

Induction Coil. i . >• -i ai •% ^ 

material, and then wound to- 
gether as closSly as possible on a spool of wood or paste- 
board. This system of two wires, one of which, R r, is of 
much greater diameter than the other, G g, for special 
reasons, constitutes an induction cylinder. The larger 
wire is called the primary, or main, wire ; the thinner is 
called the induction wire. [There is no practical reason in 
this simple case for making the one wire smaller than the 
other, as they are wound together and are of the same 
length. The thinner wire is also called the secondary, — K.] 
Another apparatus may be made by winding the wires 
upon separate wooden or pasteboard tubes; the coarser 
wire on a smaller tube, so that when wound it may be 
placed inside the larger tube which is wound with the finer 
wire. The apparatus, which is illustrated in principle by 
diagram. Fig. 17, then will look as shown in Fig. 19. A is 
the induction coil of very fine, long wire ; B the inducing 
coil of comparative, short, thick wire ; E the galvanic bat- 



PRELIMINARY 




33 



tery, and M the galvanometer. The ends a 6 of the spool 
A are connected with the galvanometer ; the end d of the 
thick wire with the battery pole n, while the end c is con- 
nected with the capsule of mercury q. From the battery 
pole jp a flexible wire is run and so connected that its free 
end may be dipped in the mercury capsule at will. 




If the battery circuit be closed by dipping the wire in 
the mercury, the needle of the galvanometer will be de- 
flected for a moment, showing that a current was started 



84 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in the secondary circuit. But as the needle soon comes to 
rest at zero, it is evident that that current does not con- 
tinue longer than the first impulse, even though the bat- 
tery circuit remains closed. The direction of the deflection 
of the galvanometer needle shows that the current is oppo- 
site to that of the battery current. When the battery cir- 
cuit is opened by removing the wire from the mercury cup, 
another impulse of current is sent through the secondary 
coil, and the galvanometer needle shows that it has a direc- 
tion opposite to the first impulse, and the same direction 
as the current which had been in the battery circuit. 

Another phenomenon to be noticed is that every •sudden 
increase in the current circulating in the battery circuit, 
induces a current in the secondary circuit in opposite 
direction to the current in the primary ; and any sudden 
decrease of current in the battery circuit induces a current 
in the secondary in the same direction. 

» 
T". I>yiiaiiiic Indixction. Just as the closing 

or opening of the primary circuit, or an increase or de- 
crease in the strength of the current fiowing in it, acts to 
induce currents, so does the rapid approach or withdrawal 
of a primary wire, in which a current is fiowing, have a 
similar effect upon a secondary wire circuit. If the coil P, 
Fig. 20, be moved within the coil S, or be withdrawn or in- 
serted in it, currents will be generated as in the cases just 
considered. The currents generated may be called the 
"approaching" and "withdrawing." The former has the 
opposite, and the latter the same direction as the main cur- 
rent. Take for illustration Fig. 21 ; and from the premises 
it is easy to determine the action exerted upon a conductor, 
R, by a current flowing in the solenoid from A to B. In 
passing R along A B, in direction of the arrow, the current 
in the convolutions from which it is receding induces the 
"withdrawing" current, and that in the convolutions in 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



35 



front induces the ^' approaching " current. Until the centre 
line M is reax^hed the ^^approaching" is in excess, and the 



FiQ.20. 




Fie. 31. 



Dynamic iHductioH, . 

excess is the measure of the effective current. From M to 
B the receding convolutions are in excess, so that the 

** receding" current 
preponderates, and 
is effective just in 
proportion to the 
differences between 
the numbers of con- 
volutions of each 
kind. Of course, at 
the centre line, M, 
the two currents 
neutralize each other and are not effective. 

Gaugain correctly remarks, after his extended investi- 
gations, that the strength of the current in the ring does 
not alone depend upon the number of convolutions, but 




Dynamic Induction. 



36 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

also upon the varying distances of the parts of the appara- 
tus assumed under the conditions. Dynamic induction is 
governed by Ampere's laws given in Section 5. These may 
be again stated thus: — If the relative position of a con- 
ductor carrying a current, to that of a closed conductor not 
carrying a current, be changed* in any manner, a current 
will be induced in the latter. 

The direction of this induced current is determined by 
the following law laid down by Lenz : — 

If the relative position of tjvo conductors, A and B, A 
carrying a current and B closed, is changed, the motion will 
induce in B a current having a direction that would by its 
electro-dynamic effect on the conductor A communicate to A 
a motion opposite to that by which the induction was caused. 
[In all cases the direction of the secondary (induced) cur- 
rent is such that the mechanical reaction between the two 
conductors is opposite to the direction of motion, being a 
repulsion when the wires are approaching, and an attrac- 
tion when they are receding. — K.] 

* S. ^Mag-netic Indixetion. According to Am- 
pere a magnet is a piece of iron having a series of galvanic 
currents encircling it at right angles to its axis (§ 4). Such 
being the case a magnet can be used in the place of the 
battery coil P, to show the same induced currents in the 
secondary coil S (Fig. 20). 

Referring to Fig. 22 the coil, galvanometer and connec- 
tions are the same as the same parts in Fig. 20. The bar 
magnet is substituted for the coil and connections. The 
same reversing induced currents arise from introducing 
and withdrawing the magnet. The directions of the in- 
duced currents depend upon the kind of motion (to or fro) 
given to the magnet, the direction of the convolutions of 
the wire, and the polarity of the end of the magnet which 
is nearest to the largest number of convolutions. The phe- 



PBELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



37 



nomena are the sasoie if the coil B (Fig. 20), or the magnet 
(Fig. 22), are Btationftiy and the coil be moved. To deter- 



Fia.Vt, 




Magnetic Induction. 

fnine ijjhe directions of the induced currents, consider the 
•south pole of the magnet pointing to the observer, and the 
inducing Amperean currents will have the direction of the . 
hands of a clock, and apply the rules which have been so 
fully set forth. 



Q. IWCovement of a IWCag-net towards a, 
•closed "Wire Ifcing-. In view of what has been 
written it is not diflScult to determine previously what the 
<5urrents will be in a closed wire ring if a magnetic bar, S N 
(Fig. 23), be moved toward and through the ring in such 
manner as to keep the plane of the ring perpendicular to 
ihe axis of the bar. Consider the magnet bar N S as a 
solenoid with a series of currents having the direction of 
ihe arrows ; as the bar is moved towards the ring all the 
currents exert their inductive effect, increasing until S 
reaches the plane of the ring, and then decreasing till 



38 



DYXAMO-ELECTRIO MACHINES. 



m reaches the same position^ where the inductive effects 
are equal and opposite on both sides, consequently at 



Fi».t& 




Movement of a Magtut toward* a Wire Ring, 

that point there is no current. Continue the move- 
ment of the magnet in the same direction through the 
ring, and the reverse effects will be observed. The phe- 
nomena are the same as those observed in § 5. The effects 
are the same if the ring be moved instead of the bar. The 
arrows 1 to 5 (Fig. 23), serve to bhow the comparative 
strength and direction of the induced currents. 



lO. notation of a n.ing' liavingr a con- 
tinixoixs coil of* "Wire upon it, l>et^ween 
tlie FoleH of a IMagfnet.. Gri^amme Il.ingr. 

For simplicity in studying the direction of currents in 
closed conductors enveloping a ring we will take instead 
of the whole spiral only a few convolutions, which we will 
pass over the iron annular core in the direction fromp over 
r* n, etc. We will also imagine the iron ring as provided 
with two double poles, n s, formed by cutting the ring in 
two and moving their poles a little apart, as is shown in 
Figs. 24 and 25. These form, in tact, two semi-circular 



PRELIMINABT PHYSICS. 



39^ 



magnets with like poles turned towards each other. We 
will imagine each of these magnets, according to Ampir€^9 



Fio. 24. 




FUw o/Currtnt in Gramme Ring, 

theory, § 4, a system of parallel currents encircling the iron 
at equal distances, with the direction of the hands of a 
watch if the south pole be turned towards the observer, or 
the opposite in the case of the north pole, as is shown in 
Fig. 25. Now if we move the coil R, Fig. 24, over the semi- 
circular magnets there will be induced currents, such as we 
have considered in Section 7, generated in quantity and 




SoUmid CurrtttU around Double PoUt, 

force due to the movement towards and from the solenoid 
currents. These currents will take, in the successive posi- 
tions of the spiral, the direction due to the different in- 



40 DYNAMO-BLBGTBIC MACHINES. 

-ductive efficiencies of the solenoid currents from which the 
spiral is receding and of those which it is approaching. 

For purpose of consideration we need take only one-half 
•of the semicircular magnets, as the reactions are the same 
in both, and divide that into four sections r^ r^r^r^. The in- 
fluence of the solenoidal, or Amp^rean, currents upon the 
spiral varies with their distances from the poles. By any 
small movement of the coil from its resting-place an elec- 
tromotive force is set up and ^ current generated in the 
coil. We will designate the electromotive force in the coil 
over that section of the ring where the coil is shown by e, 
-and that force in the coil during its movement over the 
section, next it, by e\ etc. We designate the direction of 
the positive current in the coil R by the sign + , it having 
the direction from the exterior of the ring towards the cen- 
tre, in that part which is drawn full, and which is on the 
side towards the observer. To the negative current we 
give the sign — ,it having the direction opposite to the 
positive, that is, from the centre toward the exterior. We 
also call to memory (§ 7) that the induced currents are op- 
posite to the inducing solenoidal, or Amp^rean, currents 
w^hen the coil is approaching the greater number, or 
have the same direction when receding from the greater 
number. 

1. If the coil R be at the point of neutrality, p, half way 
between n and s, and if it be moved a little in the direction 
spn, it will recede from all solenoid currents between p 
and s, and at the same time will approach the same number 
of solenoid currents, having the same direction between p 
and n. At the moment of starting, the electromotive forces 
are balanced, as seen by the signs, + e^ + e — e -^ e^ = o. 
Therefore the coil R receives no current while passing the 
neutral line p ; and the same is the case when passing the 
line pK 

2. If the coil be exactly over the double pole n, and then 



PRBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 41 

receives a slight movement towards the right it will recede 
ifrom those solenoid currents at the left between n and p, 
and will approach the same number of solenoid currents, 
having a contrary direction, at the right, between n and p^. 
The electromotive forces of all the currents between pnp 
is therefore -f e^ + e + e -f- e* = 2 e + 2 eS and the cur- 
rents induced in the coil is the sum of all these electromo- 
tive forces, and is as great as can be attained during the 
movement of the coil over the whole ring. The direction 
of this current is + , i. e., upon the part towards the ob- 
server it is from the exterior towards the centre of the ring, 
as is shown on the first convolution of the coil. 

3. If the coil be directly over the double pole s, and be 
moved a little in the direction as before, it will recede from 
all solenoid currents lying between s and p\ and approach 
the same number of currents, having contrary direction, 
lying between s and p. The electromotive force of all 
these magnet currents is therefore — ef — e — e — e* = 
— 2 e — 2 e^ The induction current produced by these 

•electromotive forces has therefore the same intensity as 
that at the double pole n ; but the direction is opposite. 

4. If the coil be at the point r\ half way between the 
neutral line p and the pole n, a small movement of the 
spiral brings into action the magnetic currents between 
r* r^ r*. The coil recedes from the solenoid currents lying 
between r* and r*, therefore the resulting electromotive 
force is + e^ +€/ but the coil also approaches all the mag- 
net currents between r* and r®, half of which have one 
^direction and half another, so these electromotive forces 
are — e + e^ Therefore the entire electromotive forces 
acting on the coil, in this case are +e^ +e ^ e + e^ = 2 eK 
During the passing of the coil over the point r\ therefore, 
it receives a current having the same direction as that 
which it had on passing n, but, however, of less intensity. 
Bj referring to the illustration it will be readily seen that 



42 DTNAMO-ELBCTBIC MAOHINBS. 

the magnitude of the electromotive forces, e and e\ is de-*^ 
pendent upon the number of effective solenoid currents f 
and that the induced current created by the electromotive 
force -f 2 eUs the stronger the nearer the coil approaches 
the double pole n. 

6. If the coil R be at r', which is half way between n 
and p\ the magnet currents between the points r^ r*, r*, 
are to be taken into consideration on its next move- 
ment towards p\ The coil recedes from all solenoid cur- 
rents between r^ and r', and approaches all those situated 
between r^ and r^. The electromdfive force of the next- 
movement is then -f e^ — « -f- e + e* = 2 e^ The induc- 
tion current thereby created has, hence, the direction of 
that at the pole n ; as well, it has the same intensity as 
the current generated at r^ From the preceding state* 
ments it will be seen that if the coil R be moved from p 
over the points r^ n, r^, to p^ of the polarized ring, an elec- 
tric induction current is generated, uninterruptedly , which 
commences as it leaves p, and grows stronger as it ap- 
proaches n, is strongest at n, and then diminishes imtil at 
p^ it is again nil. This current retains its direction during 
the entire movement from p over n to p\ That is, in the 
part of the spiral on the side toward the observer the direc- 
tion is to ward, the centre of the iron ring. 

6. If the coil has arrived at r^, the solenoid currents be- 
tween r^, r^, and r* will act at the next movement ; their 
electromotive force is — e^ — ^ -h e — e^ = — 2 e\ The 
induced current has the direction opposite to the one pre- 
viously considered; i. e., in the parts of the spiral on the 
side towards the observer the direction is away from the 
centre of the ring. The intensity of the current is the 
same as that at the points r^ and r*. 

7. If, finally, the coil is at the point r*, half way be- 
tween p and s, the electromotive force is of course + e — c* 
— e^ — 6 = — 2 6*. The induced current retains its direc- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 43 

tion, the same as it had at r*, s and r* ; and its intensity is 
the same as at the points r' r^ and r^. 

Therefore, it is to be concluded that if the wire spiral R 
be moved from p* over the points r^, s, and r* top of the po- 
larized ring, an induction current is also produced uninter- 
Tuptedly, beginning on leaving p\ grows stronger, is 
strongest at s, and again decreases till at p it is again nil. 
The current retains its direction during the entire move- 
ment from p' over s to p. If we sum up these results from 
the entire revolution of the wire spiral around the axis of 
the iron ring we will come to the following conclusion : — 

At the magnetically neutral line of the iron ring the 
spiral is without current ; but immediately thereafter the 
induced current appears; at first of little strength, but 
grows stronger until it reaches its maximum at the pole ; it 
then diminishes to nothing at the other end of the magnet- 
ically neutral line. During this time the direction of the 
current remains unchanged. But further movement in- 
duces a current of opposite direction, which grows stronger 
as the coil approaches the second pole, and then weaker as 
it recedes from that pole and approaches the first neutral 
point from which the spiral was moved. 

What we have said of the spiral wire R is equally true 
of every other spiral with which we could clothe the ring ; 
and now we are prepared to receive a clear idea of what 
happens when we encircle the iron ring with a continuous 
series of such spiral spools, or bobbins, and connect metal- 
licly their ends so that the circuit has no beginning and no 
end. The induction phenomena are the same, as far as the 
direction of the currents, whether the wire coils be moved 
over the stationary polarized ring, or the iron ring, with 
the coils fixed upon it, be revolved around its axis. In 
both cases the double poles of the ring retain their places 
in space, and the coils move through the polarized space. 
In the case of a single spiral, or coil, as first considered, the 



44 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

variouB changes and degrees of current appear success 
sively. But when the iron ring is covered by coils the 
changes are progressive in the several coils ; but in the 
whole, so considered, there is no rise and fall. In all the 
spools situated on one side of a diameter, which is the line 
midway between the poles, induction currents of different 
strengths in the different spools are generated, which sum 
up as one current of definite strength and direction. In all 
the spools on the other side of that line like currents of like 
strength are generated which all sum up into one current 
of equal strength to the total current on the one side, but of 
opposite direction. As these two currents are equal and 
opposed they balance each other, so no available current 
circulates in the convolutions when the ring is rotated 
on its axis. The direct action of the exterior stationary 
magnet poles upon the. rotating wire spools remains, for 
the present, out of consideration, as also does the molecular 
change produced in the iron by displacement of the poles 
induced in the ring. 

Nevertheless, the electromotive forces of the solenoid 
currents in the wire convolutions constantly exist during 
the rotation of the ring. It is exactly as if the like ( + ) 
poles of two equally strong batteries, I and II (Fig. 26), 
were connected together. Notwithstanding that the elec- 
tromotive forces of the batteries exist, they being equal 
and opposed no current flows as there are no possible paths. 
So no current is to be noticed in + a 6 +. But by supply- 
ing a circuit these electromotive forces will generate a cur- 
rent which will flow in it. To accomplish this connect by 
a wire, L, the conmion junction ( + ) a & with the common 
junction (— ) c d, and a current formed by the union of the 
two currents from the batteries will flow in the direction 
designated by the arrows. This mode of connecting bat- 
teries is called " coupling for quantity." The mode of con- 
necting the single elements of a battery in succession i« 



PRBLIMINART PHYSICS. 



45 



Fie. 98. 




called "connecting in» series," or "connecting for inten- 
sity," "tension," or " electromotive force." Gramme does 
the same thing by conducting the 
two currents generated in the ring 
from the junction points on one side 
to the junction point diametrically 
opposite. These points are the ex- 
tremities of the diameter coincident 
with the line of neutrality between 
the poles of the stationary inducing 
magnet. 

[The several spools, or bobbins, 
on each side may be, for illustra- 
tion, considered as an equal number 
of single cells of different electro- 
motive values, coupled up for ten-, 
sion, which is the sum of the sev- 
eral electromotive forces; and the 
two batteries thus formed coupled 
for quantity. — K.] 

This is plainly seen by examining Fig. 27. In this 
figure the ring is encircled by a continuous wire helix, the 
heavily drawn parts of which are facing the observer. The 
induced poles are at n and s, and the neutral points p and 
p\ Each single convolution represents a full spool, or bob- 
bin, placed in contiguity, and the beginning of each spool 
connected with the ending of the next in one direction, and 
so on, that the whole forms one complete electric circuit 
around the ring, in one direction. By inductive action of 
stationary magnet poles, not shown, in the immediate 
vicinity of n and «, during rotation of the ring, a current 
tends to flow in the direction shown by the arrow, on 
the wire above the line p p' ; and a like current also 
tends to flow in the wire below the line, in the opposite 
direction as shown by the arrows. But as the tendencies^ 



Two Batieriet Coupltd/or Quat^ 



46 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



are equal and opposite no current eau flow until a circuit 
^external to the ring is supplied. As these tendencies neu* 



lto.9r. 



^^»s; 



p 


( 


2^^«^ 


( 



«f^,lP^: 



Course of Currents in Gramme Ring. 

iralize each other at the neutral line, a wire L connecting 
the two points p and p^ allows the flow of the combined 
currents, as in the case of the batteries (Fig. 26). The 
strength of the current is not, as in the movement of a 
single coil, of different values in the different positions, but 
is of one strength in all parts, and is equal to the sum of all 
the currents generated in the several coils, as these are pro- 
duced simultaneously and constantly. The stability and 
constancy of this entire current is due to the fact that, 
by the rapid rotation of the ring, which may be 800 to 2000 
per minute, each spool immediately enters the space just 
vacated by the one which preceded it, so that notwithstand- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 4? 

ing the changes which are constantly taJcing place in the 
individual spools^ the aggregate changes being progres- 
sively continuous, the total current does not suffer change 
in constancy or strength. The entire wire convolutions of 
the ring will be traversed by a constant and continuous 
current if the speed of rotation remains constant. The 
greater the rapidity of rotation the greater the quantity of 
electricity that is produced in a unit of time. Experiments 
have shown that the electromotive force is proportional to 
the rapidity of rotation. 

In the preceding we have only taken into consideration 
the effects produced by the polarized iron core of the ring. 
But we must also consider the effects produced by the 
direct action of the stationary magnet poles upon the wire 
coils alone. For this purpose we must consider the wire 
coils without the inclosed iron annular core as revolving 
around the axis in the direction heretofore assumed. 

Let S (Fig. 28) be the south pole of a stationary inducing 
magnet exterior to the wire coils, placed vertically and 
perpendicular to the plane of the paper. In such a case 
the outer and inner portions of the wire convolutions are in 
the vicinity of the pole ; but of course the outer portions 
are nearer the pole than the inner by the thickness of the 
removed iron ring. Consider the wires lying on the plane 
of the paper. The lines 1, 2 to 13 represent the outer por- 
tions of one or more of the coils, placed close together and 
facing the pole S. The inner portions of the coils are indi- 
cated only by the dotted lines connecting the fully drawn 
lines. The ends to the right and left are supposed to be 
connected with the adjacent coils as heretofore explained. 
We assume that the convolutions are equidistant from each 
other and that number 7 is over the centre of the pole, and 
that 6 and 8, 6 and 9, 4 and 10, 3 and 11, 2 and 12 are equally 
distant from this centre, as is the case during rotation of 
the coils. The arrow a gives the direction of the move- 



4S 



DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



ment across the pole. The magnet we again consider a 
system of solenoid currents, according to Ampere, and that 



Fio.88. 



•^/^ 



i^ n n IS 




a 

Currents from Movement of Wire Coils over a Magnet Pole. 

they circulate in the direction of the hands of a clock, as is 
shown by the arrows / and r. By movement of the coil 
across the end of the magnet pole the approaching convo- 
lutions 1, 2, 3, and 4 are most strongly influenced, as they 
are more nearly parallel to the solenoid currents ; whereas 6 
and 7 are scarcely, if at all, influenced, as the solenoid cur- 
rents cross them in two directions at nearly right angles, 
and therefore neutralize each other. In the same way 
there is little or no current induced in No. 8, but nearly all 
in 10, 11, 12, and 13 of the receding coils. 

If the spools, or coils, alone, without any interior iron, 
were moved before the magnet pole S there would also be 
currents induced in the farther portions of the coils from 
the pole, as well as in the nearer portions. But as they are 
less influenced, and in practice are protected from the in- 
ductive action of the magnet by the iron core of the ring, 
we need not consider this action only so far as to say that 
the direction of the induced current in them is in opposi- 
tion to that of the nearer portions. 

In the movement of the wires 1 to 4 the induced currents 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 49 

being those of approach^ have a direction opposite to the 
Amp^rean currents, and are indicated by the arrow-heads 
at the bottom of the lines. These wires also approach the 
Amperean currents r as well as I ; but as r is farther than I 
the induced currents have a strength due to the diflEerent 
effective actions of I and r. The wires 10, 11, 12 and 13 all 
recede from the Amperean currents r and I; r ot course 
being most effective, and -consequently the currents in- 
duced are due to the difference in the effective actions of r 
and I. As the wires are receding the currents have a direc- 
tion the same as the solenoid current r. 

The action upon the wires 6, 7 and 8 is somewhat differ- 
ent. Wire 6 recedes from / and approaches r ; but as I is 
nearer and so most effective, the current in 6 takes the 
same direction as I. This is also the case with wire 8, only 
the gfreater effective force is with r, it being the nearer. 
The currents in these two wires serve to neutralize some- 
what the currents induced in the other wires. As the wires 
5 and 9 pass the edges of the magnet pole, the induced cur- 
rents in them change directions. Wire 7 in crossing the 
centre of the pole receives two impulses of current, with an 
intermediate cessation. All the wires over the face of the 
pole do not contribute to the effective current, but act to 
neutralize a part of the current generated in more favora- 
bly moved wires. 

In the preceding consideration the inductive effects of 
the currents which are parallel to the wires have only been 
taken into account ; but all other solenoid currents, except 
those perpendicular or at right angles to the wire coils, are 
effective, and in the proportion which they deviate from 
the right angle towards the line parallel to the wire coils. 

To sum up, the effective currents induced in the wire 1 
to 13 are all in one direction, and assist each other when the 
continuous connections are made which have been de- 
scribed. Of course it will be readily taken for granted that 
3 



60 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 

the north pole will exert a like action upon the' coils of the 
ring. 

We have specially considered the wire coils without the 
iron ring^ and without considering any effects upon the 
portions of the wire of the coils wijhin the ring. The iron 
ring not only protects those portions from reverse action 
(the possibility of which was shown), but aids materially 
by inducing currents in inner wires by reason of the oppo- 
site polarity induced in it by induction from the stationary 
magnet. 

According to Oramme the iron ring otherwise greatly 
assists the eflSciency of his machine, as by its presence the 
magnetism of the stationary magnet is more concentrated 
at the poles and so exerts a greater inductive effect upon 
the wires. 

Besides these simpler effects which we have described, 
there are others, such as the reactions of the currents upon 
each other, and various other phenomena. We avoid these 
xmimportant investigations, because they would lead too 
far from the object of this treatise, and do not make any 
important change in the result of our investigation. 

[Dr. Schellen's theory of the action of the Oramme ma- 
chine is not altogether satisfactory. If his theory be cor- 
rect, then the poles of the stationary inducing magnets 
should be as small as practicable, so as to avoid the counter- 
currents induced in the wires directly facing the poles. In 
practice the machines have the pole-faces enlarged so that 
they almost completely encircle the rings. See the illustra- 
tions of Gramme machines. And, furthermore, in the most 
effective Gramme machines (see Figs. 135 and 136) the 
wires of the rings are moved at right-angles to the solenoid, 
or Amp^rean currents. The theory advanced by others 
that the induced currents are due to " cutting the lines of 
magnetic force" by the wires is, perhaps, a nearer ap- 
proach to the truth, but still not sufficient, as the " lines " 



PBBLIMINART PHYSICS. 61 

can be "cut** by circuit wires without giving rise to cur- 
rents. A rise and fall in magnetic influence^ say from ap- 
proach and recedence, seems to be necessary. We will not 
here advance a theory. — K.] 

11. notation of* an Araiatxire o vei* 

the Foles of a IMag-net. If a bar of soft iron 
A B (Fig. 29) be enveloped by the insulated wire coil C, or 
the bar of horse-shoe form C (Fig. 30) have two like wire 
coils, for the purpose of generating induced currents, either 
apparatus may be called an inductor y or, more conunonly, 
an armature. 

FiOB. 89 and 80. 





Inductors or A rmaturot. 

The same induction effects which are produced in a wire 
coil by the movement of a magnet, as in Fig. 22, may be 
produced by moving a magnet to and from the soft iron 
cores of inductors. By division, the iron becomes magnetic 
(§ 2), its magnetism increases or diminishes by approach or 
recedence of the magnet, and the corresponding inductive 
effects are observed in the wire coils. 

If, therefore, a rotary motion be imparted to the induc- 
tor, so that the ends A B of the iron core pass close by the 
poles N S of the stationary magnet, there will be currents 
generated in the coils which have the directions due to 
approach and recedence, and which for greater clearness 
are illustrated in this special application by Fig. 31. 



52 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Pio. 81. 



The convolutions are drawn few and far apart, for ease 
of analysis. 

By bringing the magnet B towards the soft iron core A, 
there are generated in the latter magnetic poles of opposite 
polarity to those of the former, as is 
indicated by the letters N 5, n S. This 
movement generates a current in the 
wire which has a direction opposite (as 
shown by the arrows) to the Amperean 
currents of the iron molecules. If B be 
now withdrawn, A will lose its mag- 
netism, and in so doing will induce a 
current in the wire of the same direction 
as the Amperean currents. 

If either A or B be rotated, it will be 
seen that the currents will have the 
same direction during the time of move- 
ment of N from s to n, where they will 
be reversed. 

[A careful analysis of the movements 
and of the generated currents will show 
that the withdrawal of N from s towards 
n reduces the magnetism of A to nil at 
90° of the rotation, and there is a current of direction due to 
loss of magnetism, say over to the left. But, at that point, 
as both the poles of B have equal effect upon both ends of 
A, the current ceases. Continuing the rotation, what was 
N becomes S, and the generated current has the direction 
under to the left in space ; but in the wire, as it has reversed 
its direction in space, the current has the same direction as 
the previous one. 

The next half of the rotation reverses the current to the 
right, in the same manner. 

Thus it will be seen there are four impulses of current 
due to one rotation, the movement from one pole to the 




Direction of Currents in an 
Inductor. 



I'BCI^IHIKABY PHYSICS. 53 

opposite pole givmg ilse to two impulses having one direc- 
tion, and the other half of the rotation giving rise to two 
impulses in the opposite direction. 

It is well to call the attention of the reader to the fact 
that no currents are generated in induction coils, unless the 
two ends of the wire of the coils are connected, either 
directly together, or through some other conductor, so as to 
have a complete circuit through which the current may 
flow. Also that the terms "current" and "flow of cur- 
rent "* do not express the proper conception of electric 
motion; but as the early investigators used these terms, 
and as they serve a good purpose in making practical 
descriptions, they are herein used. Electric current is but 
a mode of motion, as is heat, light, sound, etc. It seems 
probable that the motion is transferred from molecule to 
molecule in the circuit by molecular change of form. Its 
hypothetical consideration, however, is not within the scope 
of this work. — K.] 

IS. The M:agriietic Field of Force. In 

the preceding observations we have always considered the 
•effects of electric currents in the place of permanent mag- 
nets. In many cases, however, it is simpler and more con- 
venient to consider the direct effects of the electric currents 
themselves. As magnets induce electric currents, so do 
electric currents induce magnetism. If we take a stiff piece 
of paper, and pass a thick copper wire through a perforation 
near its centre, and, while the paper is supported horizon- 
tally, pass currents through the wire from a strong galvanic 
battery, «and if the upper surface of the paper be covered 
with iron filings, these will arrange themselves in a peculiar 
order, somewhat as shown in Fig. 32. The filings form 
concentric circles around the copper wire, and are delinea- 
tions of the direction of the magnetic forces which are 
exerted by the electric current upon the minute particles of 



54 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



iron. These arrange themselves lengthwise and parallel 
with the lines of magnetic force. This direction coincides 
at every point with the tangent of the circle passing through 
that point and concentric to the wire. Fig. 33 shows a 
length of wire traversed by the galvanic current, and the 
magnetic lines of force are indicated by the helical lines 
encircling the wire. 

Fio. 32. 





mim^ 






J he Magnetic Field <^f Force of a Galvanic Current. 



We can therefore speak of the magnetic field of a gal- 
vanic, or electric, current, and mean by the expression that 
during that particular observation the galvanic current pro-^ 
duces eflEects like those of properly arranged magnets. In 
this manner, investigation i^ often greatly simplified, by 
giving us the ^eat advantage of producing at any time a 
visible picture, as it were, of the properties of the magnetic 
fields of force of either magnets or electric currents. It is 
only necessary to introduce into the field a piece of paper 
strewn with iron filings, and then observe the curves pro- 
duced by them under the magnetic infiuence. The form of 



PBELIMINABY PHYSICS. 55 

the curves shows the direction of the magnetic forces ; but, 
more than this, the pictures also allow us to draw conclu- 
sions as to their intensity. Where the force is great, the 
curves are thick and sharply defined ; and where it is weak,. 
the lines are thinner and less plain. 

When we desire to show graphically a field of force, we 
observe the following method : We characterize the direc- 
tion of the force at every point in the field by lines having 
that direction; and where the intensity of the force is 
increased, we represent the fact by an increased number of 
the lines in a given space, somewhat in proportion to the 
force in that space. A drawing made according to these 
principles shows everything necessary to enable us to deter- 
mine the inducing electric action of a magnetic field of 
force. 

[It is often desirable to fix the pictures or ^' magnetic 
spectra " made with iron filings. To do so, first take moder- 
ately thick, unsized paper, and saturate it with melted 
paraffine. Next sift some iron filings through a sieve of not 
larger than 70x70 mesh. Even finer is preferable. Use 
none other than those filings which have passed through 
the sieve. Next stretch the prepared paper on a rectangu- 
lar frame, like the frame of a school slate, and then support 
the frame horizontally a few inches above the work-table. 
Place under the paper, and almost in contact therewith, the 
magnet, electro-magnet, wire, conductor, or whatever else 
the field of force of which you may wish to observe, and 
then energize them ; if not already in such state, as in the 
case of a permanent magnet. While energized, sift on the 
paper some of the iron filings, and then gently tap the paper 
with a pencil, or the like, so that the filings may freely 
move to their places. Then a fiat mass of iron, previously 
heated to a temperature of 300 or 400 degrees Fahrenheit, 
must be held over the paper until the paraffine become 
liquid, when the iron must be removed and the paper be 



.56 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



allowed to cool. The paraffine fixes the filings in place so 
.that the "magnetic spectrum" thus formed may be pre- 
served for reference. Such spectra may be copied by 
photography, or by the " blue process." — K.] 

For the sake of simplicity, we will first consider a homo- 
geneous field of force. In this case, both the direction and 
intensity of the force is the same at all points ; therefore 
ihe lines are drawn parallel and at equal distances apart. 
Pig. 33 represents a field of this kind. 



Fia, 




Fio. 34. 



MMgn*tie Line* of Force of an Electric Current. 

In Section 8 we have seen that induction currents are 
created when a wire coil is brought near a magnet or 
removed from it. Evidently the important action here is 
the carrying of the coil from a weak magnetic field into a 
stronger magnetic field, and then the reverse. 

Fig. 34 shows the lines due to this movement, such as 
take form f roiia the movement of a simple copper ring in a 

non-homogeneous mag- 
netic field. In the upper 
part of the field the lines 
are drawn from right to 
left. The intensity is 
great at two points, and 
at the middle is naught. 
In the lower part of the 
field the lines pass from 
left to right. 

With the movement 
the intensity rapidly in- 

Movement of a Ring in a Non-kotnoeeneous j . -i j 

Pi^ij creases and then de- 




PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



57 



ureases. It is the same field of force shown in Fig. 7, 
and is produced by two bar-magnets, which are placed 
opposite each other, with opposite poles in the same direc- 
tion. If we move the copper ring from the first point, 
where the lines are close together, towards the middle, 
where the lines are less close together, a current is induced 
by the movement, as shown in the figure. If the ring is 
moved from fhe middle to the third position, where the lines 
^f force are again closer, but of opposite direction, the effect 

Fios. 85 and 88. 




Mffvtment of a Ring in a Homogeneous Magnetic Field without Induction, 



is the same, the action still stronger. The three positions 
are materially different, inasmuch as the nimiber of lines of 
force and their direction vary with every position. The 
essential condition of this observation is the movement of 
the ring, so that the number of lines of force it cuts, and 



68 



DTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



their direction relatively to the ring, is changed. But if the* 
ring be so moved that there be no change in the number or 
direction of the lines crossed, the inducting action is 
naught. Such cases are shown by Figs. 35 and 36. But we 
can 'also move the ring in a homogeneous field of force in 
such a manner that either, or both, the nimiber and direc- 
tion of the bisected lines of force is changed, by turning it 
around an axis at right angles to the direction of the lines- 
of force. 

This method of induction has of late become of much 
special importance. Fig. 37 is an aoilsavor to elucidate it. 



Fie. 87. 




Moating Motion of a Ring in a Homogeneous Magnetic Fitld* 



PART II. 

THE METHODS OF ELECTRIC MEASUREMENTS 
AND MEASURING INSTRUMENTS. 

13* !E:iecti*ica,l 'EiiGx^y. In all branches of 
physics exact methods of measurement are based on the 
statement that the sum total of energy remains the same 
whatever may be the forms of its manifestation. 

By the term Energy we characterize all manifestations 
or expressions of elementary forces of nature whether they 
be called heat, light, electricity, chemical reaction, or des- 
ignated by other terms, no matter whether it be latent 
(energy of rest) or active (energy of motion). 

Electrical energy can be produced by a galvanic bat- 
tery, a thermopile, or by friction-electric, magneto-electric, 
or dynamo-electric machines which may be driven by 
hand, or by means of a gas-motor, or steam engine. 
Energy is communicated to all these machines in some 
form, and by them is converted into electrical energy in 
either a good, bad, or indifferent manner. Zinc is oxidized 
in the galvanic battery ; heat is applied to the thermopile ; 
and mechanical power is applied to the other three kinds of 
machines in various ways. In order to determine whether 
one or the other arrangement for the conversion of a mode 
of energy into electricity is the most advantageous, the 
energy used and the electricity produced must be measured. 
The electrician's duty is, however, more than this. For 
him electricity serves but as a means for the accomplish- 
ment of a purpose. After he has constructed apparatus 

59 



60 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 

which attains the nearest possible perfection in the way of 
transforming mechanical energy into electrical energy, it 
becomes his second duty to construct other apparatus by 
which it is possible to make use of this electrical energy 
for practical requirements ; whether it be in the transfor- 
mation of it into light for electric lighting, into mechani- 
cal labor for the transmission of power, into chemical 
energy for galvanoplastic purposes, into heat for heating 
apartments, or for other and various purposes. In these 
cases, again, it becomes necessary to know how much 
light, mechanical labor, chemical energy and heat can be 
obtained from a given amount of electrical energy by his. 
apparatus. 

All these processes, to which numerous others might be 
added, require for their understanding and control a simi 
of knowledge from all branches of physics, especially of 
phenomena in the fields of electricity, of magnetism, and 
of heat and light ; all of which, however, can be found in 
the text-books of physics. The various transformations 
of electrical energy into light and mechanical power, and 
vice versa, like all other processes of nature, take place in 
order of number and measure. And it is in consequence of 
the labors of recent investigators in the field of physics 
which covers principally the transformation of power, that 
we have new and convenient units of measurement. These 
units were only finally determined at the Paris Congress 
in 1881. This makes it necessary that the person who de- 
sires to make earnest study in the field of technical elec- 
tricity, must not alone become familiar with the older 
empirical units of measurement, but must also become con- 
versant with the C.G.S. (centimeter, gramme, second) units 
of measure (the so-called "absolute system of measure- 
menf ). On this system the physicists have made very 
complicated measuring instruments which the experi- 
mental and practical man must thoroughly understand if 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 61* 

he desires to gain reliable data from his observations. 
This Part will therefore treat of the units of measurement, 
the latest and important instruments for measurement, 
and of their use for practical work. 

tex*. Mechanical power is usually stated in the unit 
horse-power, which is 76 m.kg, (metre-kilogrammes) per 
second. A horse-power is that energy which is used in 
lifting one kilogramme seventy-five metres high in one sec- 
ond against the force of gravity. In case of the dynamo- 
electric machines it is of the greatest importance that its* 
velocity of rotation and the power acting upon it should 
remain constant. Dynamometers have been made which 
allowed of the determination of these two factors of speed 
and power at any moment. The dynamometer of Profs. 
Ayrton and Perry (Fig. 38) measures the transmitted force 
by the tension imparted to a spring or springs. A strong 
hub F' with four radial arms, F, is keyedy or otherwise 
fastened, to the shaft A of the steam engine, or other mo-^ 
tor. Four spiral springs connect the ends of the arms with 
the rim of a loose-pulley B B' which runs on the shaft A. 
The loose-pulley serves as the driver for the dynamo-electric 
machine by means of a suitable belt. 

Or the loose-pulley may be replaced by the pulley of the 
machine, and the connections be made by the springs 
directly. If A be rotated, the power is communicated 
through the springs. So the tension of the springs is the 
measure of the grammes, or pounds, of power used. The 
greater the power applied the more the springs are ex- 
tended, and the more the arms are moved backwards rela- 
tively to the pulley. This tension and the distance are 
measured optically, somewhat after the following man- 
ner : — Upon the rim of the loose-pulley B a lever is pinned 
at one end C, and is movable thereon as its axis. Thi& 



<62 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

lever is connected with one of the arms F through the ez- 
1;ension L' and link L. The other end of the lever carries a 

Fw.88. 




Ayrion &^ Perry* s Dynamattuter. 

bright metallic knob H. When in revolution around the 
axis A the bright knob appears to the eye as a bright circle 
whose radius is the distance between the centre of A and 
the centre of H. The greater the power expended the 
nearer the bright knob is drawn towards the axis A. The 
radius is read from a scale fastened near the apparatus 
with its highest mark on the line extending the axis. As 
the knob, or rather, the apparent circle, appears at one of 
the marks on the scale the force expended is readily read 
in horse-power. 

[The mode of grading is this : — A piece of belting 
fastened to the pulley, say at B', is passed over the pulley 
in direction opposite to the arrows ; at B it leaves the pul- 
ley at a tangent, and is fastened to the hook of a spring 
balance, which^ in its turn, is fastened to some immovable 
object. A rod, for a scale, is then placed in any convenient 
I>osition, either horizontal or vertical, but near to and cross- 



PBEI^IMINABY PHYSICS. 63 

ing the central line of the axis«and the position of knob H, 
If the axis A and arms F be now turned by hand, or lever, 
in direction of the arrows the knob will be forced towards 
the axis, and the pounds, or grammes, of strain put upon 
the belt may be read from the spring balance at any and 
all positions of the knob. These may be marked upon the 
rod or scale, and if the pulley is to be run at constajit speed 
the horse-power may be calculated by the following equar 
tion, and marked thereon at the several divisions of the 
scale. Let L equal the length in feet of the belting requisite 
to encircle the pulle'y once ; and I the same length in me- 
tres ; and N the number of rotations of the pulley per min- 
ute ; and n the number of rotations per second ; and P the 
pounds shown on the scale at the position of the knob or 
bright circle ; and p the nimiber of kilogrammes shown at 
the same place ; 

then 'I = --y^= horse-power expended. 

The second formula is for French horse-power. Some 
correction is needed to compensate for the centrifugal force 
of the lever during rotation. — K.] 

IS. ^"oii Hefner- Alteneclc^s I>yiia- 
inoMietei*. The arrangement constituting the dyna- 
mometer we have just described was first suggested by 
General JSIorin. It is convenient for stationary use and 
where exactness is not specially desired. For accurate 
measurements the dynamometer devised by Von Hefner- 
Alteneck is exclusively used. [Not so in the United States. 
— K.] The principle is illustrated by Fig. 39. 

The apparatus consists of two pulleys, R^ and R^ 
strongly supported in bearings in a frame and with 
their axes parallel. The driving belt which passes around 
the two pulleys N^ and N* is passed between the two pul- 



64 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



leys B^ and B^ so that the line of the belt forms a symmet- 
rical figure with equal parts on both sides of the line join- 



Fie. 80. 




Von Ht/ner-Alttmeck^s Dynamomtter {old model.) 

ing the two axes O* and O, as long as the two parts of the 
belt have equal tension. If power be transmitted through 
the belt the pulleys together will be moved towards the 
part which has the stronger tension. 

The power necessary to bring the pulleys back to their 
intermediate position is proportionate to the power trans* 
mitted through the belt. This is measured by the spring 
flr, which, by means of the screw v, is brought to the ten- 
sion needed to keep the pointer on the frame just over the 
mark m. The degree of tension can be read from the scale 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS, 



65 



S, and the divisions of the scale have predetermined 
vcdues. 



Fio. 40. 




Diagram of Von He/ner^AUtneck^s Dynamometer, 

The apparatus as it is used in practice is shown in Figs. 
40^ 41^ and 42. Its main parts are seven pulleys arranged 
as shown in the diagram Fig. 40. Six of these, designated 

Fio. 41. 




Von He/ner'Alieneck'** Dynamometer (front view). 

by numbers 1 to 6 have their arbor-bearings in a rectangu- 
lar iron frame, and all their arbors are parallel. The sev- 
enth pulley has its bearings in a lever-frame which is piv- 



66 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIO MACHINES. 



oted on the axis of pulley 5, and can move either up or 
down. When the pulley 7 is moved either way from its 




Von He/ner-AUeneck's Dynamometer {p>p view). 



central position the pointer p moves correspondingly, 
though in the opposite direction, from the point m ; but it 
can be made to assume its normal position by adjusting the 
tension of the spring g by the screw v. The belt is carried 
between the pulleys as shown in the diagram, so that its 
line forms a symmetrical figure with two like parts, one 
above and the other below the pulley 7, as long as the ten- 
sions on the two parts are equal. As soon as power is 
transmitted by the belt the pulley is moved by the tight- 
ened part of the belt in the direction of the slackened part, 
and the pointer p is correspondingly moved away from m. 
The tension requisite to bring the pulley and pointer back 
to their places is then applied to the spring g by the screw 
Vy and the values of the tension are read from the scale S. 
To prevent too rapid vibrations of the parts due to momen- 
tary variations in the power expended, a dash-pot is pro- 
vided at L, with its piston attached to the frame V. 

[The values of the scale S are determined by previously 
applying known values of weight to the rim of the driving 
pulley, as at N^ Fig. 39, and noting the corresponding 
movements of the pointer on the scale S, from which calcu- 
lations can be made after the formulas given on page 
63.— K.] 



PRBLIMINABY PHYSICS. 67 

lO. The Brake I>yi:iaiiioiiieter. The 

dynamometers so far discussed permit of measuring power 
expended at the moment without loss. In special cases^ 
however, such as in the electric transmission of power, the 
use of the brake dynamometer is desir^-ble. This measures 
the labor actually performed by a motor in any given time 
by using the power expended during the time of the test 
in overcoming friction. The apparatus consists of a lever 
which is fastened to the axis of a motor, but whicli is pre- 
vented by a weight, or some definite force, from rotating 
with the shaft. The weight required to prevent the lever 
from moving with the shaft is the measure of the amount 
of transmitted power. This is greater as the lever is longer 
or the weight attached is heavier. 

[A brake is sometimes applied to devices resembling 
Fig. 38, to determine the values of the deflection of the 
lever-pointer H, or its like, in place of the belt and attach- 
ments described in that connection. The brake is applied 
by clamping on the periphery of the pulley, and weighing 
the pressure exerted by the end of the lever on a balance, 
or platform scales, requisite <o bring the pointer to a given 
point. Then the following formula should be used : As the 
distance from the centre of the axis A to the periphery of 
the pulley is to the distance from the same centre to the 
end of the brake-lever, so is the pressure exerted on the 
scales to the tension of the belt. — K.] 

[XT'. The lient J^ynainometer. An ex- 
cellent construction of dynamometer is shown in Fig. 43. 
It was designed by Mr. William Kent, of Pittsburgh, Pa., 
and was bmlt at the Stevens Institute of Technology by the 
graduating class of 1879. It is a modification and improve- 
ment upon the famous Batchelder dynamometer, a descrip- 
tion of which may be found in the Scientific American of 
August 31st, 1878. It was used in the tests made for the 



68 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



United States Lighthouse Board by Prof. Henry Morton, 
and is thus .described by him : 

"The modification consists in providing a method of 
making an automatic record, and of indicating more minute 
variations of the power transmitted. The accompanying 
cut, Fig. 43, represents the dynamometer without the 

Fio. 48. 




Kent Dynamometer. 



recording attachment, and as it was used in the experi- 
ments. The construction of this apparatus and its mode of 
operation are as follows : 

**It consists, as shown, of two stout cast-iron frames, 
held together by bolts in bearings, in the top of which 
frames run two shafts, each carrying a pulley at its outer 
end and a bevel-gear wheel of 45° at its inner end. One of 
these shafts is the driving-shaft, connected by belt to the 



PBBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 69 

engine or otber prime mover ; the other is the driven shaft, 
connected by belt to the machine driven. The power is 
transmitted from one shaft to the other through two other 
bevel-wheels of -^^ gearing with the first, the shaft common 
to them and on which they run freely being at right angles 
%o the axis of the two shafts first mentioned, and carrying 
at one extremity a heavy pendulimi. 

** The bevel-wheels being connected, as shown, and the 
power being applied to the driving-wheel, the two interme- 
diate wheels with their common shaft have a tendency to 
revolve around the driving-axis, which tendency is a meas- 
vjKi of the force transmitted, and is resisted by the moment 
of the weight of the pendulum. In the Batchelder dyna- 
mometer, the four bevel-wheels and their shafts are used, 
but the shaft connecting the intermediate wheels is always 
held in a horizontal position, and its tendency to revolve is 
resisted by weights and a sliding poise applied to an exten- 
sion of one end of it, which is graduated like a scale-beam. 
In using the Batchelder dynamometer, the operator requires 
to keep the beam constantly balanced, by shifting the poise 
on the scale-beam or the weights in the scale-pan hung at 
its outer end, to correspond with the variations of the power 
transmitted, and a record of the power is obtained by noting 
the weight on the scale-beam at each instant, and the cor- 
responding number of revolutions of the driving-shaft. The 
horse-power is obtained by multiplying weight in pounds of 
weighting poise on the scale-beam by the distance in feet 
of its point of suspension from the driving axes, by the 
number of revolutions per minute, by 3.1416, and dividing 
by 33,000. 

"In the improved dynamometer, the horizontal scale- 
heam with its weights and sliding poise has been dispensed 
with, and the swinging pendulum substituted. The tend- 
ency of the shaft carrying the two intermediate bevel- 
wheels, the prolongation of which shaft is the pendulum 



70 DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

arm, to revolve around the driving-axis, is measured by the 
weight of the pendulum and its arm multiplied *by the dis- 
tance of their centre of gravity from the driving-axis and 
by the sine of the angle which the pendulum arm makes 
with the vertical. When the pendulum hangs in a vertical 
position, the force transmitted is zero, errors due to friction 
excepted, and when it is horizontal, the sine of the angle 
being equal to unity, the force is the maximum the appara- 
tus is capable of recording. The weight of pendulum and 
its position on the arm being constant, the only variables to- 
be considered in measuring the horse-power transmitted are 
the nimiber of revolutions per minute and the sine of the 
angle of the inclination of the arm. These variables may 
be caused to automatically record themselves on a sheet of 
cross-section paper by any one of a number of devices. 

"The dynamometer used in these experiments had a. 
capacity for measuring 20 horse-power ; a method is pro- 
vided of measuring very small powers, which consists in 
lessening the moment of the pendulum and arm, first by 
shifting the sliding weight nearer the driving-axis ; second, 
if still lighter moment is desired, by removing the weight 
from the arm entirely ; or, third, if even still greater deli- 
cacy is desired, by counterbalancing the weight of the arm 
by adding weight to its upper end, above the upper inter- 
mediate bevel-wheel. 

"During the experiments, one person attended to the 
running of the engine, dynamometer, and machine, while 
another recorded the number of revolutions of the dyna- 
mometer and the inclination of the weighted pendulum ; 
the latter was read from a graduated arc fastened to the 
pendulum in such a manner as to be in the same plane with 
its axis ; this arc, by the deflection of the pendulum, swung 
by a pointer attached to a cross-bolt at back of machine and 
thus indicated the degrees of inclination of the pendulum. 
The friction of the dynamometer was obtained by loading 



• PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 71 

its delivery shait with a weight which produced the same 
pressure on the bearings as was brought on them when it 
was transmitting power to the light machines, and then 
noting the deflection of the pendulum to overcome the fric- 
tion produced."— K.] 

[IS. The Brackett I>yiiamometer. 

This dynamometer is the one best adapted to measuring 
the power applied to dynamo-electric machines. It was in- 
vented and has been patented by Prof. Cyrus F. Brackett, 
of the College of New Jersey, at Princeton, N. J. Prof. 
Brackett described it as follows, in The Electrical World, 
of Jan. 5, 1884 : 

" The principle involved will at once appear, when atten- 
tion is called to the mechanical interaction which takes 
place between the armature and the field magnets of a 
dynamo or a magneto machine. When the circuit is closed, 
the armature being in rotation, the field magnets tend to- 
revolve with the armature ; and if free to do so, they would 
acquire a velocity of rotation equal to that of the armature. 
The current would be thereby reduced, in the limit when 
the velocities become equal, to zero. Now it is the mechan- 
ical couple which the armature exerts on the field-magnets 
which we desire to know in order to compute the energy, 
supposing we know the number of revolutions which the 
armature makes in a imit of time (say minute). We shall 
know this couple if we know the value of the equal couple 
which must be applied in order to hold the field-magnets in 
place. To secure this knowledge, we have only to balance 
the field-magnet system so that it can turn freely through 
a small arc, whose centre lies in the geometric axis of the 
armature, and apply a known force at some point on a 
graduated lever-arm which is attached to the field-magnet 
system so as to lie in a horizontal direction when the mag- 
nets are in equilibrium, as in the case of a common balance^ 



72 



DTJ^AMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



The centre of gravity of the field-magnet system, together 
' with the lever-arm, should be very slightly below the points 
of support, for the same reason that the centre of gravity 
in the balance is slightly below the knife-edges. 

" The number of revolutions being known, by means of 
a * speeder,' we have the force in terms of a known weight 
or spring, and the length of the lever-arm on which it is 
applied. Hence we know^ the moment of couple desired. 
The expression for the energy is then 

Energy = 2L x &. 141592 x W x N, 

where L is th« length of the lever-arm, W is the weight, 
and N the number of revolutions in a unit of time. If we 
desire the result in * horse-power,' we shall take L in feet 
and W in pounds, the unit of time being one minute. 

**The accompanying figures will render this description 
clearer. They represent with substantial accuracy the con- 
struction of two small machines belonging to the Physical 
Laboratory at Princeton. Eig. 44 is the side elevation. 

Fio. 44. 



• f A'^^'^'^'H 




Side EUtHiiion, 



Pig. 44a is a transverse section or vertical plan. It will be 
seen, from the description and from the figures, that the 
energy measured is exactly that which is effective in pro- 
ducing the current. No allowance whatever has to be made 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



73 



for loss in friction at the brushes, bearings, or other parts 
of the machine. This is what we desire in a scientific 
research. The only waste which we need take account of, 
even in the most delicate and exact inquiry, is that which 
results from the friction of the air between the field-magnets 

Fie. 44a, 




Transv^TM Siction, 



and the armature whereby the field-magnets might be sub- 
ject to a slight force tending to make them revolve. Even 
this insignificant factor is perfectly eliminated by the use 
of a small weight just sufficient to balance this tendency. 

" In the application of the method here pointed out to 
measure the energy of a large commercial machine of any 
construction whatever, we have a different object in view. 
We desire to know what power must be expended on the 
machine, as a whole, in order to drive it under its load. 
We then have only to mount the machine on a rocking 
cradle so that the line passing through the points of support 
of the cradle shall be coincident with the geometrical axis 
of the armature. The cradle, fogether with the machine, is 
then to be balanced so as to bring the centre of gravity of 
the whole into near coincidence with the line passing 
through the points of support. The graduated lever-arm is 
to be attached to the cradle in a horizontal position, and 
weights or springs are to be applied, as in the case already 



74 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

explained. A cradle is easily contrived which shall hay& 
an adjustable platform, so that machines having different 
construction may be mounted on it for trial. The uprights 
on which the supports are fastened may be of wooden tim- 
ber, or in some cases, as, for instance, in the Gramme con- 
struction, the uprights which carry the knife-edge supports 
may be attached directly to the machine itself. The ma- 
chine in this case needs only two uprights, on which the 
knife-edges may rest as they carry the machine. 

" The essential point to be secured is to have the whole 
machine, together with its immediate support, so balanced 
on knife-edges or their equivalents that it can turn through 
a small arc, suflScient to allow of the application of a mo- 
ment of couple equal and opposite that exerted by the 
driving-belt, the equality being determined by securing, by 
means of a weight at some definite point on the lever-arm, 
a condition of equilibrium to the field-magnets." 

lO. Heg-istei* of !R.ot£LtioiiH. The dyna- 
mometer measures the tension on the periphery of the pul- 
ley. In order to know the amount of transmitted power, it 

is necessary to know the 
diameter of the pulley 
and the number of rota- 
tions per minute, from 
which data we can cal- 
culate the circumference 
of the pulley and the dis- 
^:^«^i^2ato- tance traveled by the belt 

Tachometer made by Buss, Sombart a* Co. in a givCn time. 

The exact determina- 
tion of number of rotations in a given time of dynamo- 
electric machines is of great importance, and special 
apparatus are constructed for the purpose. The tachometer 
made by Buss, Sombart & Co., of Magdeburg, is much ijsed.. 




PRBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 75 

It is possible with it to read at any moment the rate of 
rotations per minute then going on^ from a pointer moving 
on a scale. The position of this pointer is regulated by 
a spring which acts likfe a centrifugal pendulum. The 
spring is in a cylindrical iron case. The instrument may be 
attached directly to the rotating shaft, or be ruji by a belt 
therefrom. Other forms of instruments for this purpose are 
too well known to need description here. 

SO. Ohm's J^CLSV and the TJnlts of 
Elective >reasiiremeiits. Electrical energy is 
determined by two factors. For example, the energy of a 
waterfall not alone depends upon the quantity of water 
falling, but also upon the height from which it falls. Like*' 
wise, the knowledge of the quantity of electricity given by 
a machine is not sufficient upon which to form a judgment 
as to its merits ; there must also be data as to its tension 
(what potential differences exist). In order to determine 
the electrical energy, we must measure two things : 1st, the 
quantity of electricity which passes through the wire during 
a given time, i. e., the intensity of the electric current, the 
current strength ; and 2d, the potential difference by reason 
of which the electricity traverses the wire from one part to 
another, i. e., its tension. It is convenient in measuring to 
introduce a third factor, the electrical resistance of the cir- 
cuit in which the current flows. The relation in which 
these three factors are connected with each other is ex 
pressed by the following equation : 

E = C XRy 

or Tension = Strength of Current x Resistance. 
[Or, as is also expressed : 

Electro-motive Force = Current x Resistance.— K.] 



76 DTNAHO-ELBGTRIC MACHINES. 

Formerly these three factors had other units of valua- 
tion, but the Electrical Congress at Paris, in 1881, fixed a 
system of measures which has since been adopted every- 
where, and will be exclusively used in the following pages. 
The unit of electrical resistance is termed an Ohm, and is 
represented by the resistance of a column of mercury of one 
square millimetre section and 1047.55 millimetres length, or 
by that of a copper wire one millimetre jliameter and 48 
metres length. The unit of tension, or electro-motive force, 
is termed a Volty and is 0.9 of the tension at the poles of a 
Daniell cell. . The unit of strength of current is termed an 
Ampire. An electric current has the intensity of 1 ampere 
when with the tension of one volt it traverses a circuit 
having the resiataiice of one ohm. The theoretical founda- 
tion for the selection of these units is* fully set forth in the 
proceedings of the Electrical Congress in Paris, in 1881. 

According to the experiments made by Joule and the 
investigations of Helmholtz, the following fundamental 
relation exists between the electrical units of measure- 
ment : 

Electrical Energy = Tension x Strength of Current, 

If the mechanical energy is measured in horse-power, 
the following equation expresses the mechanical and elec- 
trical energy. A represents horse-power ; then 

J _ Volts X Ampir es 
"" 735T 

Formerly the units of measurement used in Germany 
were, the Siemens mercury unit for resistance, a Daniell 
cell for tension, and the strength of current was expressed 
in Webers. The following relations exist between the new 
and old imits : 

1 Ohm = 1.0486 Siemens. 
1 Volt = 0.927 DanielL 
1 Ampdre = 0.885 Weber. 



PRELIMINART PHYSICS. 77 

And the reverse : 

1 Siemens = 0.9537 Ohm. 
1 Daniell = 1.079 Volt. 
1 Weber = 1.13 Amp^reu 

The value of the horse-power unit also varies in different 
countries. The generalizing equation may be stated thus : 

rr Volts X Ampire» 
Horse-power = ^^ — 

The value of C is shown in the following table : 



OKRMAKT AMD FbAMCB. 
1 bone-power=75 sec mkg. 


Baden. 
= 600aee.ft.lb. 


Pbubbia, 

= «l>MG.ft.». 


ErOLAlTD. 

»gt»8M.ft,ib. 


ACBTBIA. 
= 4aO«ecft.Ib. 


1 

C = 736.7 


1 
736.7 


1.0043 
738.& 


746,* 


1.0149 

746.7 



[The American Talae of (7 it the eameas the lDgUBb.^K.] 

Velocity of a falling body being in all 9.819 metres per 
second. 

In Schellen's handbook on the Electrc^-magnetic Tele- 
graph, various apparatus and methods are shown and given 
for electric measurement. Here we only describe apparatus 
and methods which are specially adapted to use with 
dynamo-electric machines. These facts must be borne in 
mind : the previous ordinary so-called galvanometers are 
nearly all magnetic deflection needles. They are nearly 
useless with dynamo-electric machines, on account of the 
strong magnetism of the machines, which in itself causes 
deflections of the needles of the galvanometers in their 
neighborhood. Apparatus has been devised, the readings 
of which are independent of external electric and magnetic 
forces, and are only governed by the intensity of the elec- 
tric current passed through them. This end is attained in 
two ways : one, by constructing the instrument so that it 



\ ( . 



1 r I 



78 



DTKAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



€ontains no magnetizable iron whatever, and the other by 
embodying in the instrument such intense permanent-mag- 
nets that no accidental exterior magnetic fields have any 
appreciable effect on the readings. 



Fig. 46. 




Siemens Gf Halske's Electro-Dynamometer, 

ai. Electro-I>;^iiamometei* ma>de "by 
Siemens & XTsilslce. This instrument is made 
imder the former plan just named, and is used for measur- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 79 

ing strong electric currents. It is illustrated in Fig. 46. 
Its main parts are two coils which are traversed by the cur- 
rent to be measured. The interior coil is stationary and 
the exterior one is movable. The coils of the two are per- 
pendicular to each other at the points of crossing. The 
exterior coil has but one convolution, and its ends dip in 
mercury-cups through which it receives its current. It is 
suspended by a thread and a torsion spring. The upper 
end of the torsion spring has a button, or knob, shown at 
the top of the instrument, which button has a needle- 
pointer which rotates with the button over, the circular 
Bcale. An index-finger, or pointer, is fastened on the 
movable coil, and extends upwards to the circular scale. 
When at rest the two pointers point alike to the zero of the 
scale. But when a current is made to traverse both coils 
in series they tend to assume a parallel position by reason 
of their mutual electro-magnetic attraction. But the tor- 
sion spring acts against this, and by means of the button 
the torsion force of the spring may be increased until the 
pointer on the coil is brought again to zero on the scale. 
As the angle of torsion A is proportional to the rotating 
power, and this latter is proportional to the square of the 
strength of the current I, i. e., proportional to the product 
of the individual strengths of current passing through both 
coils ; then I = C V A, or proportional to the square root of 
the indicated angle of deflection. 

22m The Gralvanometers (Ammeter, 
Voltmeter of I>eprez a^nd. Ayrton & 
Perry). These are based upon the protection from ex- 
terior influences afforded by the use in the instrimients of 
powerful permanent magnets. Deprez's galvanometer is 
.shown in Figs. 47 and 48. The coil of insulated wire 
through which the current passes is placed between the 
poles of a strong permanent magnet. The armature con- 



80 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

sists of a thin blade of soft iron, with ten incisions which 
make it resemble a double comb. It takes the place of the 
needle of an ordinary galvanometer, and Deprez assumes 
that its form insures a better polarization by induction of 
the magnet. This armature is nicely balanced on knife 
edges, and to make it lie horizontally when uninfluenced 
by a current in the coils, a balancing weight is put on the 
under side, and it is shown by the dotted lines in Fig. 48. 
A pulley is fastened on one of the axial extensions of the 
armature, and another pulley, one-fifth of the diameter of 
the first, is placed in line with it on the standard carrying 
the graduated scale shown in Fig. 47. This second pulley 

Fig. 47. 




Deprtz's Galvanometer. 



has an index pointer fastened to its axis. By reason of the 
cord which connects the peripheries of these two pulleys 
the movement of the second is over an arc five times as 
long as the first. This construction is not above doubt as 
to the correctness of its readings. One advantage it has, 
however, is the almost immediate coming to rest of the 
pointer. The wire convolutions are formed into two cir- 
cuits. One, having four convolutions of very thick wire, 
serves for the measurement of strong currents ; and the 
other, having a great number of convolutions of fine wire, 
serves for the measurement of weak currents. The galva- 



PBBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 
Fio.48. 



81 




The Armature o/D^n^s Galvanomtter, 

nometer constructed by Ayrton & Perry (Fig. 49) is a more 
convenient instrument. In this a very light needle swings 
in a very strong magnetic field. 

The needle is so carefully balanced that the readings 
are correct under any position of the instrimient. The 




Ayrian 6* Perry's Galvancmeier, 



82 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

deflections of the needle are directly proportional to the 
strength of the current. This perfection is attained by 
appropriate arrangement of the convolutions of the wire of 
the coils. The circuit is made up of ten divisions of equal 
resistances. The ten divisions may be, by the commutator 
at the top and back of Fig. 49, connected in parallel arc, or 
in series, by a simple movement. In the former case a cur- 
rent of 10 ampdres causes a deflection of the needle of 6 de- 
grees ; while in the latter case a current of 1 ampere causes 
a like deflection. The divisions of the scale are as high as 
45° each side of zero, so that current strengths as high as 
90 amperes can be measured. Each instrument has with it 
an artificial resistance of one ohm, to be used for purposes 
of calibration and adjustment. A yoke-like armature is 
put over the poles of the magnet when the instrument is 
not in use, in order to preserve its magnetism as much as 
possible. 

The instruments we have described are used for measur- 
ing current strengths, and for that purpose their coils are 
put into the main circuit. On this account the convolu- 
tions are few and are of thick wire, so that their resist- 
ances are of no comparative account. Often the divisions 
of the scale are marked with their values in ampdres. In 
order to measure tension, volts, these instruments must be 
modified. The plan followed is in obedience to Ohm's 
law, E = RxC, Provision is made so that R can be con- 
stant, and then the tension E is proportional to the strength 
of the current C, measured by the instrument. Such in- 
struments are called Voltmeters. They have very many 
convolutions of fine wire in each coil, and with great elec- 
trical resistance (100 to 2000 ohms). 

[They are not put into the main circuit, but their bind- 
ing-posts are connected with the two points between which 
the difference of potential, or tension, is to be determined. 
The difference of potential between the two points is what 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



83 



determines the flow of current between the two points in 
the two circuits so provided, and the strength of current in 
each is in inverse proportion to its resistance. — K.] 

This measurement is not absolutely correct, because it is 
based upon the assumption that the resistance between the 
two points in the main circuit relatively disappears. 



Fro. 50. 



IIS 




■ ||i'||ir-i:iM||i,|n 

■; ;.k; - 



AyrtoH fir* Ptrry's Spring Galvanotneter. 



[Of course the measurement is more nearly correct, the 
greater the difference between the resistances of the circuits 
between the two points. Ayrton & Perry have also made a 
galvanometer to avoid the frequent calibrations which are 
necessary with those having permanent magnets which 
vary in magnetic strength. This one, illustrated in Fig. 
50, has the directive force of its needle determined by a 



84 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



spiral hair-spring located around the pivoting axis of the 
needle. By m^ans of a button the tension of the spring 
may be adjusted so that the needle will not be deflected 
from zero until the deflecting force of the current has 
reached a predetermined value. So when the needle is 
slightly deflected that value is indicated. — K.] 

Fie. 61. 




Siemens and Halske's Torsion Galvanometer. 



33. SieixieiiH a^nd H^alsslte^s Toi?sioii 
CralvanoiTieter. For exact measurements of differ- 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 85 

ences of tension, this galvanometer is now almost exclu- 
sively used in Germany. It is illustrated in Fig. 51. The 
instrument contains a so-called bell-magnet, which is sus- 
pended from the cover by an unspun silk fibre and a fine 
fipiral spring. The pointers play under the engraved scale 
on the glass-top cover of the instrument. The torsion angle 
is measured as in the case of the electro-dynamometer 
described in Section 21. Over each pole of the magnet is a 
coil of about 50 ohms resistance. Under the instrument, at 
the base-plate, is placed an artificial resistance of about 900 
ohms, which may be short-circuited by a plug. Without ♦ 
the artificial resistance in circuit, tensions varying from 
O.Ol to 1 volt can be measured by the instrument. By 
removing the plug, the resistance of 900 ohms is introduced 
into the circuit, so that the sensitiveness of the instrument 
becomes only one-tenth of that before, and tensions up to 
10 volts may be then measured. For still greater potentials 
the sensitiveness must be still decreased. In order to meas- 
ure a potential of 100 volts, a resistance of 9900 ohms must 
be introduced. 

24.m lEdison's Heg-istering* ^ppa.]:*a.tiis. 

This must be considered under the measuring instruments. 
It is extensively used in his lighting system. It measures 
the amount of electricity flowing through the circuit during 
any desired length of time. It is based on Faraday's law of 
-electrolysis, stated as follows : When an electric current 
traverses a solution, which is an electrolyte, of a salt of a 
metal, the solution is decomposed, and the quantity of 
metal deposited on the negative electrode of the vessel con- 
taining the solution is proportional to the strength of the 
-current, and also is proportional to the atomic weight of the 
metal. For the salt in the solution, Edison formerly em- 
ployed copper sulphate ; but latterly he uses zinc sulphate. 
J3ee Fig. 52. 



86 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



[On account of the less degree of polarization of the lat- 
ter solution. — K.] 

The apparatus has two electrolytic or decomposition 
cells, of different resistances. The electrodes are zinc 
plates, which can be easily removed for exchange. Such 
an apparatus is put into a branch-circuit, and the resist- 
ances of the two circuits so provided between the points of 
connection are so arranged relative to each other that one 
per centum of the total current flows through the instru- 
ment. While current 
flows, the positive plate 
becomes continually 
lighter, and the negative 
heavier, and both in 
exact proportion to the 
strength of the current 
and the atomic electric 
equivalent of zinc. The 
plates are. removed from 
time to time and accu- 
rately weighed, so that 
information is gained as 
to the exact increase and 
decrease in weight, and 
consequently of the 
quantity of electricity 
which has passed 
through the apparatus 
between the times of 
weighing. We will give this apparatus a more extended 
description when we consider Edison's system of illumi- 
nation. 

[Edison has also made an automatically -registering 
measurement apparatus, or meter, which is shown in 
Fig. 53. Two cells are provided, which contain each aa 




Edison's Registering Apparatus or Mettr. 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



S7 



electrolytic solution, a stationary electrode of the metal to- 
be electrolyzed, and two other electrodes, which are mova- 
ble up and down by the oscillations of the balance-arm to* 



Fig. 5a 




Edison^ A uiomatically Registering Apparatus* 



which they are attached. The electric connections are sa 
made that whichever arm of the balance is uppermost, that 
electrode attached to it is a cathode and receives a deposit 



:88 



DYNAMO -EL EC TRIG MACHINES. 



of metal, while the depressed arm of the balance carries an 
, electrode which is the anode of its cell, and is losing metal. 
When the electrodes have received and lost enough metal, 
respectively, the heavy one tips the balance and in so doing 
switches the current, so that the one which was the anode 
becomes the cathode, and vice versa; the operation is 
repeated at intervals as long as current flows. The several 
tips are registered by movement of the pointers on the dial- 
plates. A certain number of tips has a predetermined value 
in amperes, or other units. — K.] 

^^. The Electric I>yiiaiiioiiietei:*. This 
instrument, which is constructed by Ayrton & Perry, 
;shown in Figs. 54 and 55, is somewhat like the electro- 

Fio. M. 




AyrtoH b* Perry's Electrical Dynamometer, 



dynamometer described in Section 21, inasmuch as two coils 
are used, one stationary and the other movable, but the 
connections are different. The stationary coil B has but 
few convolutions of coarse wire, while the movable coil C 



PRELIMINARY PHYSICS. 



89 



IS formed of a great number of convolutions of fine wire. 
The stationary coil is inserted in the main circuit, for 
instance, of an electric lamp ; the other coil is connected 
with the two binding-posts of the lamp, so forming a 
derived circuit around the light. The force with which the 
movable coil is deflected is proportional to the product of 
the strength of current flowing in both coils. 

The resistance of the fine wire coil may be 100 ohms, or 
multiples thereof. As we have seen in Section 20, the cur- 
jrent in the fine wire coil is proportional to the potential E 



Fig. 55. 




Diagram of Ayr ton fir* Perry* s Electrical Dynamometer. 



at the binding-posts of the lamp. Nearly the entire current 

C traverses the coarse wire coils. Therefore, as we have 

seen in Section 20 that the electrical energy is -E7 x C, 

. , , E (volts) X C (amperes) ^ ^ 

the horse-power = — ^^ ' • ^ — ^ ^ Germany [or 

^.'^f United States.— K.] 

In order to adapt the instrument to use under varying 
circumstances, it is provided with a commutator, as are the 
galvanometers made by the same people, shown in Sec- 
tion 22. 

The coarse wire is divided into ten equal parts, and by 



90 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

the commutator these parts may be placed either in series^ 
or in multiple arc. 

&&. IM^esLtsixremerkt of^Hiig-lit. It is as neces- 
sary to measure the quantity of light given by an electric 
current as to determine the power expended and its return 
of electrical energy. Measurements of light are much more 
difficult to make, on account of the difficulty attending the 
several standard light units and systems of measurement. 
The Electrical Congress of Paris did not adopt any unit of 
measurement of light. 

In all such measurements, distinction must be made 
between the strength or quantity of the emitted light, and 
its quality or brilliancy. All light measurements have 
heretofore been made by comparing two lights of different 
strengths or quantity. It is stated that two different lights, 
for example those from gas and petroleum, emit the same 
amount of light when they illuminate the same area to the 
same degree, at equal distances. As the degree of illumi- 
nation of an area by a light emitted from a point decreases 
in the proportion of the square of the distance between the 
point and area, it follows that in order to illuminate the 
area to a degree due to *a distance of 1, the light must be 
increased in quantity in the proportion of the square of the 
distance to which the area may be moved from the point of 
light. 

In general terms, therefore, it may be said that the 
strengths or quantities of light from two different sources 
which illuminate a given area to the same degree, a7^e to 
each other as the squares of their distances from the illumi- 
nated areas. The various arrangements for comparing two 
sources of light are called photometers, and are based upon 
the principle just stated. 

Electricians differ upon the units of measurement in 
photometry. In France, the unit of strength of light is a 



PRE.LIMINARY PHYSICS. 



91 



"Carcel (Moderateur) lamp, largest size, 30 millimetres width 
of wick, which bums 42 grammes of Colza oil per hour. 
This quantity of light is called a Bee Carcel. The light of a 
gas flame coiisimiing 140 litres of gas per hour is also used 
as a unit. In comparison, the latter is to the former 1 Bee 
de gaz = 1.1 Bee Carcel. In England the so-called Parlia- 
ment candle (London standard spermaceti candle) is used. 
It should burn with a height of flame of 45 millimetres, and 
consume 7.77 grammes of spermaceti per hour. 

In Germany, the Society of German Gas and Water 
Si)ecialists has adopted as a unit a standard paraffine can- 
dle of 20 millimetres diameter, and of exact construction of 
wick. This is made up of 24 cotton threads, and when dry 
weighs 0.668 grammes per metre. Six of these candles 
weigh 500 grammes, and each gives a flame 50 millimetres 
high. But this standard is generally disregarded ; and 
most of the cities, in making contracts with the gas compa- 
nies, have adopted special standards. Furthermore, these 
standard candles are only manufactured to order, and the 
long flame (50 mm.) is very unsteady. 

The flame of the Munich standard stearin candle con- 
sumes 10.2 to 10.6 grammes of stearin per hour. The candle 
is made from stearin having 76 to 76.6 per cent, of car- 
bon. The normal height of flame for a consumption of 10.4 
grammes of stearin per hour is 52 millimetres. 

Comparative measurements give the following table : 



Bec Cabcel. 


Standard 
Spbbm Candle. 


Oerman Stan- 
dard I'ANDLE. 


Munich Candle. 


1. 

0.134 
0.132 
0.148 


7.436 
1. 

0.977 
1.102 


7.607 
1.023 
1. 
1.128 


6.743 
0.907 
0.887 
1. 



92 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

The various standard candles vary among themselves. 
Louis Schwendler says, "a candle, of whatever material it 
may be made, and whatever its size may be, will always be 
dependent on the composition of a compound body, the ex- 
act reproduction of which is always attended by great diflS-^ 
culty. The carcel burner is subject to the same troubles. 
And further, the quantity of light which these units pro- 
duce is dependent in a great degree upon exterior influ-^ 
ences which do not readily admit of control or measure- 
ment, and which therefore cause variations in the imit- 
light for which no corrections can be made. For instance, 
the rate and regularity with which a candle bums, and the 
quantity of light which it emits, depends not only upon the 
material but also upon the rapidity and regularity of the 
admission of oxygen. In a closed space, like the housing 
of a photometer, if the admission of fresh air is not reg- 
ular the same candle will emit quantities of light vary- 
ing 50 per cent, at diflferent times. Another difficulty is 
the constant change in the length of wick, flame, and can- 
dle itself, so that the light changes its position in the pho- 
tometer, and in so doing alters its quantitative effect on 
a given point." 

In order to overcome these difficulties Schwendler in- 
vented a new unit, which he produced by the heating effect 
of a constant electric current on a platinmn wire of a given 
length, diameter and weight. As the application of this- 
unit to technical purposes has not come to our knowledge^ 
we will not enter into a detailed description of it and its 
use. It is greatly to be regretted that we have not an 
easily prepared and uniform unit of light. The want of it 
is often the cause of disputes, and misjudgments have often 
been made on that account. 

Comparisons of lights of about equal intensity are 
usually made with a Bunsen photometer (Fig. 66). Its main 
part is a piece of white paper stretched on a rectangular 



PRELIMINARY PHYMCSIr^ 



9S' 




Bu$$ssm. Pk0iom*ier. 



frame. At its centre a drop of melted paraf&ne is placed, 
as at m. If we put a light on each aide- €>f this paper the 
spot of paraffine will appear 
translucent as long as one 
side is illuminated to a 
higher degree than the other. 
But if we move the lights or 
the paper till both sides are 
equally illuminated, the 
translucency disappears and 
the spot becomes invisible. 
Two mirrors, M N M' N', are 
set up as shown in the fig- 
ure, so that the mirror reflections of the paraffine spot may 
be seen on both sides of the pai>er by an observer standing- 
in the plane of the paper. The light intensities are to each 
other as the squares of their respective distances from the 
paper A B are to each other. These distances are correct 
when the spot is invisible by reason of the equal illumina- 
tions of both sides of the paper. 

The form of photometer adopted by Edison is thus de- 
scribed. The photometer is set on a small carriage which 
runs on a track, or rail, on which small equal linear meas- 
urements are marked. The carriage carries a pointer 
which points to these divisions, so that the distances may 
be readily taken. The two light sources are placed one at 
each end of the rail ; say an electric incandescent lamp at 
one«end, and the selected unit of light at the other end. 
This is either one or two normal candles, or a regulated 
gas-jet. The entire arrangement is inclosed in a large 
blackened box, or in a dark room. The divisions on the 
scale are so numbered that the relative intensities of the 
two lights are read at once at the division under the pointer 
on the carriage, when that has been placed so that the 
paraffine spot is invisible* 



•94 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



If arc lights are to be measured by this method it is 
necessary to have a room of at least 20 to 30 meters in 
lengthy on account of the intensity of such a light requir- 
ing its removal to a comparatively great distance from the 
photometer. As such long rooms are not always conven- 
iently at command^ Messrs. Ayrton & Perry have invented 
an instrument which they call a Distributing Photometery 
which is based on the Rumf ord photometer. The principle 
is illustrated by placing lights to be compared so that both 



Fie. 67. 




Ayrton 6* Perry's Distributing Photometer, 



<5ast equally intense shadows of a bar on a white wall. The 
intensities of the lights are then to each other as the 
squares of the distances of the respective lights fronts the 
bar which casts the shadows. In the distributing photom- 
eter the rays of light from the electric lamp E do not fall 
directly on the receiver S (Fig. 57), but first pass a concave 
lens L, which distributes them over a much greater area, so 
that they throw a much less intense shadow of the bar R 
on the receiver. The shadow so thrown is compared with 
that thrown by the normal candle flame C. The candle is 



PRBLIMINARY PHYSICS. 95 

placed in the position from whioh the resultant shadow 
equals the other shadow in intensity. From simple optical 
laws the intensity of the light E is thus stated : — 

^ = — cw — 

As it is very important in electric light determinations 
to make measurements of the light at various angles, the 
mirror M is provided, so that the rays may be reflected to 
the lens from the mirror. By means of the graduated disk 
D the mirror M can be rotated so as to reflect the rays pro- 
ceeding from the lamp when placed in varied positions. 
•The angle of reflection may be read from the graduations 
imder the pointer shown at the disk D. 

[The loss of light by absorption at the mirror and lens 
effects the reliability of this photometer. But possibly cor- 
rections may be provided. — K.] 

ST". I>ivlsloii of* the diiTrent. This sub- 
ject is of importance in considering the construction of the 
latest light regulators. If, as in Fig. 68, from any source of 
current, B, the circuit, S, be 

FsGk 68. 

run, at the point, a, be di- 
vided into two, 5i and s^, and 
joined at 6, the current which 
passes in the circuit will be 
divided between the two .,-- 
branches in inverse propor- 
tion to the electrical resist- 
ances of these two branches. ^^„^ ^^ ^_,^,, 

If the resistances of the 
two branches are the same ; for example, if the wires are 
of the same diameter and length, the current will be equally 
divided between them. If, on the contrary, the resistances 
jaxe unequal, the strength of current is smaller in that 




96 DTNAMO-ELEGTRIG MACHINES. 

branch in which the resistance is greater, but always the 
sum of the branched currents is equal to the total current 
passing in S. 

If the resistances in the two branches of Fig. 58 are 
stated as equal to Wi and u;^, and the strength of current 
in them respectively equal to ^i and 89, then 

«j : «3 = W2 : w^ and 

5j + 5g = 8. 

Therefore it follows that 



The total resistance, then, of both branches is equal to 

I 
If the resistance of s^ is very small in proportion to the [ 

resistance of aj, as, for example, if the wire of the circuit s^ 
consists of a few convolutions of a large wire, and that of 
s^ of many convolutions of a thin wire, the current in S is 
divided into two unequal parts at a, the larger portion of 
which flows through the short spiral of large wire, and the 
other has very little current. If an electric lamp having a 
light arc is introduced into the branch ^i, a large resistance 
to the passage of the current ensues, the size of which va- 
ries with the length of the arc. When the resistance of the 
light circuit increases, the current decreases in that circuit, 
and increases in the other branch circuit. 

To this statement of the principles governing the division 
of currents in electric lighting, we will add Ohm's law, as 
stated by Kirchoflf. Given any desired circuit system, for 



PBELIMINABT PHYSICS. 97 

example that shown in Fig. 58, the several divisions may be 
resolved into individual circuits for consideration, such as 
B a 8^b By — B aSf^h By — a 5^ & a, a. For each of these 
circuits, Ohm's law applies as follows : The electromotive 
force, i. e., tension of the current source, is equal to the 
gum of the product of the current strength and resistance 
of the several parts of the total circuit. The product of the 
current strength and resistance of each part is to be regard- 
ed as positive or negative (a plus, or minus, quantity),, 
according to the direction of the current in that part. From 
our figure we obtain three equations, B being the electro- 
motive force of the battery, W the resistance of the main 
circuit a b, and S the current strength : 

B = S W + Sjti\, 
B = 8 W + agWg , 

O = 8^Wi— 8^W2 . 

The last equation refers to the circuit as^b s^ a, which 
as a circuit complete in itself contains no source of elec- 
tricity and no electromotive force. If any current flowed 
in this circuit, its direction would be continually changed, 
and therefore be negative so far as affecting the current or 
electromotive force of the battery B. 

By the aid of equations like these, all problems relating 
to divided circuits and currents, and the several tensions 
and resistances of the parts can be determined. 

[It is well to express the equations given in this Section 
in the English symbols usual in expressing Ohm's law, viz. : 
J5 = (7 JB, or for sub-sources and circuits, e = cr. 

Then the equations are in their order : 
and c^ + c^ = C 



98 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

Therefore it follows that 

r. 



c^ - C 



ri +r/ 



and c^ = C 



The total resistance, then, of both branches is equal to 

The last series of equations are then : 
E = C R + c^r^, 
E = C R + c^r^ , 
O = c^Vi — CftV^. —El) 



PART III. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



PlO. 69. 



S8. The IWCag-neto-electi-ic ]M[a,eIiiiies 
of Pixii, SAxton & Clai*k:e. The first person 
ipvho put the principles considered in Part I into practice 
was probably Pixii. As 
early as 1832, he construct- 
ed the magneto-electric 
machine shown in Fig. 59. 

The crank is used to 
impart motion to the mag- 
net fastened to the top of 
the upright shaft, by 
means of the bevel-gear 
v^rheels, in obvious man- 
ner. The changes of mag- 
netism thereby produced 
in the core of the electro- 
magnet induce currents in 
the wire coils thereof, . 
which are conducted to | 
the external arc of the cir- 
cuit by the wires shown 
alongside of the standards 
of the frame. These currents have alternate, or to and fro, 
directions. But in the majority of cases it is desirable to 
have them flow in the external arc of the circuit in one 
direction. To effect this, an instrument called a Commutes 
tor, or Current-changer, is used. 




Pixiis Magneto- electric Machine. 



100 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 




.^b 



Commutator. 



Commutators differ in construction, according to the 
number of current-changes due to each rotation. The sim- 
plest form is that for machines which make but two changes 
in direction of currents for each rotation, as is the case with 
Pixii's machine. 

Fig. 60 is a diagram which shows the electrical construc- 
tion of the Commutator. Two half -cylinders A B are placed 
opposite to each other, and are kept 
separate by a piece of ivory, harc!- 
rubber, F G, or other insulating mate- 
rial. This arrangement is fastened to 
the shaft of the macliine, so as to ro- 
tate with it. Springs C and D press 
upon the cyUnder, and are fastened in 
such a position that the insulating 
piece F G comes under the springs at 
the moment of change in direction of 
the current. If one end of the wire of 
the armature coil be connected with A and the other with 
B, current will flow out of it through C H J and D into B, 
until such time as B comes to C, when the current having 
changed direction, flows out of B through the same course 
into A. So C becomes continually the positive and D the 
negative pole of the machine, analogous to like poles of a 
galvanic battery. 

[As Pixii rotated the magnet and the commutator to- 
gether, while the armature coil was at rest, the manner of 
utilizing the commutator is somewhat more complicated 
than if the coil and commutator were rotated. It will be 
noticed that four springs are used, and the commutator is 
made so that the two springs directly connected with the 
coils bear continually each upon one-half, while the two 
springs connected with the external portion of the circuit 
bear alternately upon the halves. In apparatus in which 
the induction-coil is rotated, each end of the wire may be 



MAGNETO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 101 

connected directly with its appropriate half of the commu- 
tator. See Figs. 59 to 64.— K.] 

As at the point of change of direction of current a break 
in the circuit takes place, more or less intense electric 
sparks appear, according to the strength of current, which 
melts the metal of the commutators and brushes, so that 
they wear away very rapidly ; so much so that these ma- 
chines coi^d not be utilized in industries. 

[It seems, in the light of more recent exi>erience, that 
the excessive wear at the commutator is due to the want of 
sufficient knowledge of the best construction and materials 

Fio. 81. 




Clark* t Magneto-eUctrtc Machine. 

tor commutator and springs, and that more sparks came 
from imperfect contact than from any other practical 
difficulty. Machines for alternate currents do not need a 
commutator. If the coil is fixed, the currents are taken 
direct. If the coil is moved, the currents are taken off by 



102 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

springs pressing upon two cylinders, which are each con- 
nected with its respective end of the wire. — K.] 

The next step was made by Saxton and by Clarke, each 
of whom rotated the armature instead of the magnet. 
Saxton gave them a horizontal position. Clarke rotated 
the inductor at the side of the magnet, which had a vertical 
position. 

[Modified forms of Pixii's and Clarke's machines are 
still used for medical purposes, both for currents of one, or 
for alternate, direction. Figures 62 and 63 show commuta- 
tors for Pixii's and for Clarke's machines. 

Pio. 63. 





Commutator /or PLxifft Machine. Commutator for Clarke's Machifir. 

A is the shaft, C the halves of the commutator, B the 
body, which must be of some insulating material, such as 
wood, ivory, or hard-rubber. D D the springs or wires con- 
nected with the ends of the coils, and E E the springs which 
are connected with the external arc of the circuit.— K.] 

ao. Stolirei*^K ]M[ag-iieto-eleetinc >£a- 
cliiiie. Stohrer, of Leipzig, seems to have been the first 
to construct a large magneto-machine for electric light, by 
multiplying the number of both the magnet poles and coils. 
Fig. 64 represents Stohrer's machine with three magnets, 
having six poles at equal distances from each other in a cir- 
cle, and over these poles six electro-magnet coils forming 
the armature. The cores of these coils are fastened to an 



MAGNBTO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



loa 



iron disk common to all, and that to the upright shaft which 
is made to rotate rapidly by means of the pulleys and belt. 

The convolutions of each coil are so arranged that the 
currents generated by approach in each case are in common 
direction, and so also that the currents generated by 
recedence are in reverse common direction. The machine, 
therefore, yields with every rotation six currents in each 
direction. Each one of these consist of six elementary cur- 
rents generated in the coils simultaneously, and which, on 
account of like direction, unite to formUne strong current. 

Fia.61. 




Stohrer^s Magneta-eiectric Machine. 



The commutator ab, c d, is placed on the axis above the 
iron plate, and the metal springs bearing upon it are held 
upon a block of insulating material. Wires connect the 
springs with the binding-screws e /, which are the positive 
and negative poles of the machine. 

[The coils are all wound in the same direction and 



104 DTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

mounted alike, but the beginning ends of the alternate coils 
. are connected with the terminating ends of the intermediate 
ones, and have an insulated conmion connection to the part 
of the commutator ab; the terminating ends of the alter- 
nate coils are connected with the beginning ends of the 
intermediate ones, and have a like connection with the part 
of the commutator c d. "Bitie conmiutator is of the same 
kind as is shown in Fig. 63, but is of unnecessarily modified 
form.— K.] 

It is evident that the strength of the current generated 
by the machine is dependent upon the strength of the mag- 
nets, the distance from the armature-cores of the magnet- 
poles, the number of convolutions of wire around the cores, 
And upon the rapidity of rotation. 

30. The lai'g-e IMagfiieto-electirlc 3£a- 
chine of the Soeietj^ 1'A.lliaiiee a^nd of 
Holmes. The favorable results obtained by Stohrer 
and various English experimenters, led to further experi- 
menting in the way of enlarging the size and number of 
parts, with the expectation of obtaining currents of such 
:strength and quantity as to make it practicable to decom- 
pose water on a large scale for the production of hydrogen 
in large quantity. A number of large machines were pro- 
duced, of which those of the Society TAUiance and of 
Holmes are most known. 

The Alliance machine, which is represented in Figs. 65 
and 66, as it was modified by Van Malderen, was first con- 
structed by Xollet. professor of physics of the war school at 
Brussels. Upon the axis of the machine is fastened a num- 
ber of brass disks at equal distances apart. Each one of 
these plates carries sixteen electro-magnet cores and coils, 
at equal distances apart, circumferejHbtially, and with their 
axes parallel to the axis of the machine. Eight bars are 
fastened to the cast-iron ends of the machine, arranged at 



MAGNBTO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



105 



equal distances apart, parallel to the axis, and at equal dis- 
tances therefrom. To each of these bars either three or 



Fio. 65. 




Magtuta-tUciric Machine of ike Society F Alliance, 



five compound permanent magnets are fastened, so that 
they stand radially, and in such position that the magnet 
-coils mentioned rotate with their ends between the poles of 
the magnets. The magnet poles are so arranged that al- 
ways two unlike-named poles are opposed to each other 
whether tctken parallel with the axis or in the plane of rota- 
iion. As each brass disk has 16 electro-magnet coils, and 



106 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



as each circular series of magnets has 16 poles^ all assume 
the same relative position at once. 



Fio.06. 




Vertical Seciian of Alliance Machine. 



As a rule one of the machines has either 4 or 6 bras? 
disks, and this implies either 64 coils and 32 magnets, or 96 
coils and 48 magnets. One end of the total length of wire 
is fastened to the axis and is thereby in electrical connec- 
tion with the iron frame of the machine. The other end 
terminates in a metallic ring placed in a concentric posi- 
tion around the shaft, but insulated therefrom by proper 
insulating material. A spring bearing upon this ring takes 
the current to the exterior arc of the circuit. At every 
passage of a wire spool past a pole the current changes it& 
direction. Therefore there are 16 changes of the current to 



MAONBTO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 107 

«ach spool to each rotation, making a total, at 400 rotations 
I)er minute, of 6400 changes — more than 100 per second. 
The machine is run by an engine of 5 horse-power, and 
with 4 disks of coils gives an electric light of 150, and with 
6 disks one of 200 Carcel burners (each 7 normal parafiSne 
<»ndles). ' 

[A very low duty compared with more modem ma- 
chines. — K.] 

The first machines of this kind had commutators to ob- 
tain currents in one direction, but it was only after Van 
Malderen abandoned the commutator that these machines 
•came to be of practical value for the production of electric 
light. The theory, construction and mode of action of 
the Alliance machines have been best treated by Lb Roux 
in papers which he read before the Soci6t6 d'Encourage- 
ment, etc. : — 

"As the current changes its direction more than 100 
times a second, its strength must sink to zero with every 
change, the arc of electric light, between the two carbon 
points, must be thereby interrupted, and lose its light- 
giving power 100 times per second, notwithstanding which 
the light appears to be continuous.* This is partially due 
to the fact that an impression of light on the retina contin- 
ues for a short time after the light is extinguished, and 
partially that the real arc of flame constitutes only part of 
the light, the other part being due to the white heat of the 
carbon ends not ceasing between the interruptions of the 
light. If, however, it be taken into consideration, on the 
other hand, that the tension of the current is not sufficient 
to enable it to leap from one carbon point to the other, and 
that the voltaic arc of flame can be blown out and remain 



* If the current be interrupted only -^ of a second no diminution of the light 
is perceptible ; bat if the interruption exceeds -^ot^k second the light will be 
extinguished. 



108 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

extinguished until the carbon points again touch eajch 
other, it is somewhat astonishing that such a large number 
of interruptions does not extinguish the light. It is not easy 
to demonstrate the facts. It is true that the tension of the 
current is not strong enough to enable the spark to spring 
across the space between the cold carbons ; but it is proba^ 
ble that when they once become white-hot their immediate , 
vicinity has more conducting power in consequence of ele- 
vation of temperature, and the glowing particles of carbon 
travelling between the two carbon points form a sort of 
conducting bridge between them. As the time of inter- 
mission is very short, the layer of air between the points 
lacks time to affect them in any noticeable way, and the 
electric current can proceed immediately after the inter- 
ruption. And, furthermore, with the velocity given, and 
the asstmiption that during the change of current the coil 
describes a curve of one millimetre, the duration of the in- 
terruption is but one ten-thousandth part of a second." 

Machines giving alternating currents, as is the case 
with the Alliance, have this advantage over those giving 
currents of one direction, in the fact that the carbon points 
of the electric lamp burn more uniformly, and the light-arc 
remains in the same place ; and in the fact that the alter- 
nate currents passing through the electro-magnet of the 
lamp, continually change its polarity and does not allow it 
to retain permanent magnetism, a circumstance of great 
influence upon the working of such regulators. 

[The former of these supposititious advantages is only 
of value lyith lamps in which both carbons are moved 
equally towards each other ; the latter is not understood. 
-K.] 

On the other hand alternate currents have the disad- 
vantage of making the light-arc unsteady, as it continually 
moves around the carbon points, illuminating the field un- 
equally and intermittently. 



HAGNETO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 109 

The Alliance machines are in use in the light-houses of 
Cape la H§ve (near the port of Havre), of Cape Gris-Nez^ 
near Calais, of Cronstadt, Odessa^ and other places. At 
the first place four large machines are working, which 
require two engines of 5 horse-power^ and are given a ve- 
locity of 400 rotations a minute. The Uluminating power, 
when measured outside the lenses surrounding the light, is 
3500 Carcel burners, when four disks of coils are used in 
each machine, and 5000 Carcels when 6 disks are used. 
The light can be plainly seen at the distance of 27 nautical 
miles, or 50 kilometers. 

These machines have been used in the production of 
electric light on board of ocean vessels, for night work in 
the building of bridges at Paris and Kehl, in the building 
of the new Louvre, in working on large buildings, on 
' wharfs, and to illuminate tower clocks. These machines 
were used in the siege of Paris in 1870-71. On Mont Vale- 
rian, as well as on the top of Mont Martre and other places, 
large machines of this kind were placed in order to watch 
the operations of the enemy by aid of the light produced. 

Notwithstanding the i^act that the Alliance machines 
work quite well, require only a small propelling power, and 
the patents of the company have expired, nobody but the 
company itself build the machines. It may be because 
later machines have much greater advantages. Their con- 
struction is complicated, and hence interruptions in work- 
ing are frequent on accoimt of disarrangements. The 
magnets are numerous and costly, are liable to deteriorate 
in attractive force, and thus lessen the capacity of the ma- 
chine. Often the coils are torn from their places by the 
loosening of a single one, making heavy expense for repairs 
and costly detentions. All these things must be considered 
in counting comparative cost of different machines. 

While the Alliance machine was exclusively constructed 
in France, the English physicist Holmes constructed a 



110 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



number of large magneto-electric machines on the same 
principles and for the same purposes. We will only speak 
of the one to which his last patent (June 6, 1869) refers. 
He does not rotate the coils in which the current is gener- 
ated, but fastens them, twenty in number, on the circular 
iron frame of the machine, and places five V-shai)ed electro- 
magnets on a brass disk which is fastened to the axis of 
rotation. By rotation the poles of t*he electro-magnets are 
<;arried past the free ends of the cores of the fixed coils. 
Part of the current generated is employed to magnetize the 
electro-magnets. The number of fixed coils and their con- 
nections are such that several independent currents can be 
taken from the machine at the same time and used for 
several electric lamps. This machine produces alternate 
<;urrents and requires a commutator to turn them in one 
direction. 

Fro. «7. Fio. as. 



Fick 88a. 

1 



1 . 


( 


fl — T — n — n — r — ^^^^ 




^-J 



c=si^^ = 



Siemens' Armatwre, 



31. The Sleixiens' AjraiatiTi*e. [The ro- 
tating electro-magnets of magneto-electric and dynamo- 
electric machines have received the technical name of 
Armatures. Dr. Schellen calls them Inductors. As con- 
fusion is likely to arise from the use of that name in the 



MAONETO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



Ill 



^consideration of machines hereinafter, we shall substitute 
the accepted term of Armature. — K.] 

A great step was taken in the construction of magneto- 
electric machines by Dr. W. Siemens of Berlin, in 1857. 
He gave to the armature a form and position between the 
poles of the fixed magnets, which increased the inductive 
effect of the magnets, and shortened the interruptions to a 
marked degree. 

In its simplest form this armature consists of a cylinder 
of iron E, F and G (Figs. 67 and 68), which has had grooves 
cut upon opposite sides, each of a depth of | and a width of 
J of its diameter, making its cross-section something the 
shape of a letter H (Fig. 68). 

The groove is filled by winding insulated copper wire 
longitudinally in it. One end of this wire is fastened to the 
axis y, and the other is carried to a copper ring x placed 
<;oncentrically over the axis, but insulated from it by an 



Fio. 69. 




Position o/ Siemens* Armature in relation to Magnets. 



inner ring of insulating material. [The groove is extended 
across the ends of the bar, so that the two sides project 
suflBciently for fastening them endwise to the faces of two 
disks of brass H H, or other non-magnetic metal. These 
disks have axial extensions to run in bearings, and to 
receive the pulley K and the ring a:, or a commutator L L', 
if the currents are to be turned in one direction. — K.] 

Figs. 69 and 70 show the position which the armature E 
has between the poles of the permanent magnets, and the 



112 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



manner in which motion is imparted. The permanent mag- 
nets are placed with like poles on the same side, and are 
fastened so as to remain parallel with spaces between them. 
The poles have a groove m m, within which the armature 
freely rotates, the faces of the grooves being concentric with 
the circle described by the armature. 

The magnets may be either bars with the cross-bar n 
(Fig. 69), or have the shape of an inverted U, or horseshoe, 
as in Fig. 70. 

The armature is rotated in obvious manner. Springs are 
provided, one of which presses upon the axis of the arma- 

Pig. 70. 




Magneto- Machine^ with Siemens' Artnature. 



ture and the other upon the copper ring on the axis. Wires 
X y serve to conduct the alternate currents produced. 

In cases where desirable to commutate the currents, a 
commutator like that shown in Fig. 63 is used. 

[It will be seen that the Siemens' Armature has a very 
short magnetic axis, and so changes its magnetic condition 
rapidly. Its axis of rotation is long, which gives it great 
carrying capacity for the wire coil. No currents are gener- 
ated in the coil during the passage of the poles of the 



MAQNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



113 




armature by the poles of the magnets, but only when the 
receding edges of the poles of the armature are leaving the 
magnet-poles, and the forward edges are approaching. — KL] 



114 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Siemens' IMagrneto-Electrtc A.lai^in 
JMEaehine. Fig. 71 shows a modified form of the last 
described machine, which has been used to ring railroad 
alarms and signals. 

The description of the circuits and arrangements as 
given in the description of the previous machine, apply to 
this. 

33. TVilde's IMagrneto-Electric l^Ia- 
ehine. A further advance was made by Henry Wilde, 
of Manchester, England. He used Siemens' Armature to 
carry out his idea. 

On the 13th of April, 1866, Wilde communicated to the 
Royal Society in London a number of the experiments 
which he had performed with his new magneto-electric 
machine. The machine consisted of a combination of two 
Siemens' Armatures, one of which rotated between the 
poles of permanent magnets, and the other between the 
poles of larger electro-magnets. The current from the first 
armature was by a commutator conducted through the coils 
of the large electro-magnet, and the current from the second 
was used in making incandescent platinum or iron wires, 
for the electro-deposition of metals from their solutions, 
and for the production of electric light. 

• Fig. 72 shows this magneto-electric machine in perspec- 
tive. The upper machine M M consists of 13 steel magnets 
and a Siemens' Armature, like the machine described in 
Section 31, and illustrated by Fig. 70. The lower machine 
has one very large electro-magnet E M, and a correspond- 
ing Siemens' Armature. The limbs or cores of this magnet 
are of rolled iron 18 centimetres high, around which 1000 
metres of thick copper wire are wound, in a direction paral- 
lel with the armature, and so as to generate unlike poles at 
C C. The lower armature L is made to rotate 1700 to 1800 
times a minute. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



115 



The two ends of the wire of the large electro-magnet are 
fastened to the clamps c c, which are insulated on the upper 
iron plate. The wires attached to the springs bearing upon 
the commutator of the small armature are inserted into the 
same clamps. 

More or less rapid rotation of the upper armature, by the 
corresponding generation of current, makes the electro- 
magnet of the desired strength. Thus the large electro- 



Pio. 72. 




Wtide^s Magneto- Mectric MaeAine. 



magnet becomes very much stronger than the 13 steel 
magnets, and correspondingly the rotation of the lower 
armature gives rise to very much stronger currents. In one 



IIG DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

of the first of Wilde's machines, the 13 steel magnets had a 
sustaining stj»ngth of 160 kilogrammes, and by the influ- 
ence of the magneto-electric currents generated by rotating 
the upper armature the electro-magnet attained the sustain- 
ing strength of 5000 kilogrammes. It is evident that there 
was an enormous increase in the currents generated by the 
second armature. 

Wilde proceeded still farther, and made a machine iu 
which the current generated in the second armature was 
conducted around a second still larger electro-magnet, and 
from the third still larger armature the current was utilized. 
This machine exceeded in capacity everything which had 
preceded it. 

On the 2d of March, 1867, a series of experiments was 
made in Burlington House, London, with this machine in 
the presence of Sabine and other scientific celebrities. This 
was reported by the " Athenaeum " as follows : 

*^The machine was something imposing in size, as the 
electro-magnets had limbs four feet high and ten inches 
thick, with fourteen hundred pounds of copper wire. [Ger- 
man weight and measure. — K.] The armature was rotated 
with the rapidity of fifteen hundred rotations per minute 
by an engine of fifteen horse-power, outside of the building. 
The armatures flew round and round, every rotation send- 
ing new electric currents into the electro-magnets, when 
suddenly the free current from the machine was led with 
full force into an electric lamp at the other end of the room, 
and immediately produced an intense electric light before 
the eyes of the spectators, which blinded them as much as 
the luminosity of the mid-day sun, illuminating every cor- 
ner and angle of the large hall with a splendor which sur- 
passed the sunlight. In contrast, the gas flames in the 
middle of the room looked brown. A lens, by condensing 
the rays of light, burned holes in paper, and the heat could 
plainly be felt at a distance of 150 feet by the outstretched 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 117 

hand. Then a long loop of iron wire was put in the circuit ; 
in a few moments it glowed, assumed a dark-red color, 
became white hot, and fell to the floor in glowing pieces. 
In the same way a short piece of iron, of the thickness of 
the small finger, was melted and burned. But all these 
^experiments were exceeded by the melting of the most 
infusible metal, a bar of platinum one-quarter of an inch in 
diameter and two feet in length." [This no doubt was true, 
and the machine was the wonder of the day. But several 
other machines have since been made which have gener- 
ated greater currents. — K.] 

Wilde's machine soon was applied to industrial purposes, 
such as electroplating in the establishment of Elkinton in 
Birmingham, where it was extensively used. Another 
factory at Whitechapel employed the current from this 
machine for the production of ozone to be used for bleach- 
ing. In the extensive photographic galleries of Woodbury 
and of Saxon & Co., a Wilde^s machine served for the pro- 
duction of electric light, in order to facilitate the process of 
photographic printing ; for by its aid that could go on by 
night and in all weathers. In this establishment, the ma- 
chine is said to have worked day and night, so that the 
production of the sharpest photographic prints were guar- 
anteed within twenty-four hours after the taking of the 
negative. The Society TAUiance acquired the right to 
make use of the apparatus for illumination of light-houses 
in France. 

Notwithstanding these enormous accomplishments, 
Wilde's machine has not come into extensive use. It is to 
be noticed that from the extraordinary rapidity of the rota- 
tion of the armatures, and the consequent rapid changes of 
polarity, they become highly heated^ and then the intensity 
of the current weakens. It has not been possible to sustain 
an electric light for eight or ten hours without interruption. 



118 DTNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

and this does not meet the requirements of light-houses and 
of the arts. 

[Wilde^ in later machines, made the pieces of brass 
(Fig. 72) which separate the poles C C of the large electro- 
magnet, and which also are close to the armature for nearly 
half its circumference, hollow for holding water, which was 
constantly renewed, and thus conducted away much of the 
heat. The pole-pieces of like machines have also been 
made hollow and used in the same manner. Ladd, in a 
like armature, contrived to run a stream of water through 
it.— K.] 

It will easily be seen that the possibility of the magnetic 
growth in the electro-magnet is due to the slowness of 
magnetic molecular motion. In consequence of this, the 
magnetism acquired has not time to diminish between the 
successive currents delivered to it by the first armature, so 
the magnetism builds up, in spite of the intermittent char- 
acter of the currents ; and in its turn acts powerfully" 
through the second armature to give rise to currents which 
are limited only by the mass of iron and copper used, and 
the* power applied to the rotation of the armature. [The 
magnetic axis of the armatures being so much shorter, less 
time is required for magnetic changes, so we gain currents 
which would not be possible in the absence of this property 
of iron ; because magneto-electric currents are due entirely 
to magnetic changes, as we have seen. — K.] 

33. IZ>ei>Trez's >Xag"iieto-Electi'ic 3Ia- 
ehine. Marcel Deprez endeavored to make an improve- 
ment in the previously described magneto-electric machines 
by further utilizing the magnetic field. He justly remarked 
that in the machines previously constructed only the induc- 
tive power of the ends of the poles had been utilized ; 
probably because it had been assumed that the presence of 
magnetic masses, or of movable circuits that can be closed. 




Fig. 73. 

A 



I 

B 



Depren't Magneto- EUctrtc Machine.- 



MAGNETO-ELECT3IC MACHINES. 119' 

at the poles considerably reduced the inductive power of 
the other parts of the magnet. 

This view is not correct, as is demonstrated by the results 
obtained with a small machine which he constructed. This 
is shown in plan in Fig. 73. 

A B D is a permanent horse-shoe magnet, between the 
arms of which a Siemens' Armature F Q H C is placed, so- 
as to be rotated on the 
axis F E. The commu- 
tator is at C, and the 
brushes at I and J. The / ^ i ^ i ±' 

conducting wires are con- ( ^ \ — ^El<^ ■H ^-.cp E. 

nected electrically with 
these brushes. 

The length of the Sie- 
mens' Armature (§ 30) is 
nearly that of the inside straight parts of the arms of ther 
magnet, so that the whole inductive power of the arms is 
utilized. The first model constructed had the following 
dimensions : 

Length of the horseshoe magnet measured from the end of 

the poles to the centre of the curve 145 millimetres.^ 

Width between the arms of magnet 33 " 

Thickness of the magnetic field 2^ " 

Diameter of Siemens' Armature. 82 

Length of core of Armature 60 " 

Weight of the magnet 1 .70 kilogrammes.- * 

Weight of whole machine 2.85 

Deprez obtained with this small machine effects equal tO' 
those from three Bunsen cells. 

This machine is reversible, in the sense that it is an 
electric motor as well as a generator of electricity. The 
power developed when put into motion by connection with 
Bunsen cells was as follows : 

With 12 3 4 5 8 cells, 

was 0.04 0.20 0.45 0.75 1.10 1.80 kiloj^ramme motres i)er second 



120 



J>YNA MO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



[Mr. Edison has gained good results from a motor like 
this, only he used an electro-magnet in place of the perma- 
nent one. — K.] 

These results obtained by Deprez have been considered 
by others, as will be seen in the dynamo-electric machines 
•constructed by Heinrich and Fitzgerald (see Part IV) in 
which the bobbins of the armatures are almost entirely 
^enclosed by the poles of the electro-magnets. 

Fio. 74. 




L_. 



De M^r tuns' Machine. 



34. The T>e IMeritenn lll^^etiine belongs 
to the class of magneto-electric like the Alliance, i. e.y it 
produces currents of alternate, or to and fro direction. 



MAONETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 121 

Fie. T5. 




Magneto- Eltciric Machine of De Meriiens, 

Figures 74, 75, and 76 illustrate the machine quite well. 
Eight horse-shoe, steel, compound magnets are fastened to 
the two massive bronze, ring-shaped frames, with their axes 
parallel to and concentric with the axis of rotation. 



Fio. 76. 




Detail* of De Meriteni Machine. 

The armature consists of a wheel, fastened on the axis 
of rotation, having eight arms. Upon the rim of this wheel 
6 



122 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



are fastened sixteen segment-shaped electro-magnets; as 
the wheel is rotated, they are carried close by the poles of 
the fixed magnets. ^ 

For better comprehension of the manner in which the 
currents are generated, we may consider only two magnets 
with four poles (Fig. 77), instead of the full number. 

This corresponds to a ring consisting of four segments,. 




Diagram of D* Mtfritetu* Machine. 



which are magnetically insulated from one another and 
wound with wire. Each of these iron cores consists of fifty 
or more pieces of sheet iron. 1 millimetre thick, shaped 
somewhat like a letter I. In the hollow around this core 
the wire is wound, parallel to the axis of rotation. These 
segmental electro-magnets are fastened to the rim of the 
wheel, but with insulating copper pieces C D between their 
ends, to make a complete circle composed of sixteen electro- 
magnets. Fig. 76 shows the construction more in detail, 
but omits the copper insulations. 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 123 

If we consider one of the segmental electro-magnets in 
Fig. 77 as rotating from left to right, as the iron head B 
approaches the magnetic south pole S, an induced current 
is generated in the segment A B in the reverse direction of 
the Ampere currents of the pole S ; and further, the S pole 
will generate a north pole in the iron core of the segment, 
which will traverse it from B to A, thereby generating a 
second induction current. These currents are assisted by a 
third, which is generated by the movement of the wire 
spool through the magnetic field. These currents are made 
as energetic as possible by making the least practicable 
distance between the wires and segmental core-heads and 
the permanent magnet-poles. As the head B leaves the 
pole S, currents of reverse direction to those due to the 
approach are generated, as in other cases of like character. 

The wires are wound in the same direction on all the 
spools. The beginning end of one spool is soldered to the 
beginning end of the next spool in one direction, say for- 
ward. The terminating end of the one spool is fastened to 
the terminating end of the next 
spool backward. The diagram, 
Fig. 78, shows the direction 
of winding and connecting. 
{Then alternate the direction 
of connection through the ^^ ^^ 

.1 * -• Diagram of /># Mir Hens" Winding. 

whole number, until the last — 

K.] The two ends of the wire may be regarded as the 
poles, and are carried to two copper rings fastened con- 
centrically on the axis, but insulated from it and from each 
other. Copper springs, one to each ring, take the alternate 
currents, and conduct them to two clamps, or binding-posts, 
from which the wires of the external portion of the circuit 
are run. 

An important advantage of the De M^ritens machine is 
in the fact that the coils, or bobbins, can be easily separated 




124 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

for repairs, and can be wound readily and in detail, whereas 
in Gramme's and Siemens' machines the winding of the 
rings, or cylinders, is accomplished with some diflSculty. 

Another advantage is in the fact that there is neither 
commutator nor current-collector needed. [The diflSculties 
mentioned about the Gramme and Siemens machines are 
more imaginary than real, and the advantages of those 
machines far outbalance any diflSculties by comparison 
with De Meritens' machine. — K.] 

According to many accounts, it appears that of all the 
magneto-electric machines having steel magnets, De Meri- 
tens gives the greatest light-eflfect for a given expenditure 
of power. 

One of these machines will sustain the light of three 
Jablochkoff candles continuously, without heating sensi- 
bly, at an expenditure of not exceeding one horse-power, at 
700 rotations per minute. The intensity of the light of 
these candles seems, however, to be less than with a 
Gramme or Siemens machine. 

With the largest light machines of these two kinds, De 
Meritens' machine cannot compare. But for small current 
effects, as for laboratory purposes, for physical, cabinets, 
theatre effects, etc., it seems to have advantages. The 
alternate currents from this machine may be by a commu- 
tator turned in one constant direction. 

Gramme has constructed magneto-electric machines, but 
as their novel features are in their armatures, and as those 
are the ones principally used in dynamo-electric machines, 
they are thoroughly considered under that head. 

A large model of this machine has been adopted by the 
British government for use in light-houses. Such an one 
is shown by Fig. 79. It is made up of five single machines 
combined in one frame. The shaft carries five armatures. 
The permanent inducing magnets are each made up of 
eight laminae of steel, and they are arranged radially, at 



MAGNETO-ELECTRIC STACHINES. 



125 



equal distances around the circle^ with their poles close tO" 
the periphery of the armature. 



Fig. 79. 




The nrw, large Mode/, De J/, ritens^ Machini. 

The machine resembles in general appearance the Alli- 
ance machine, but its armature is essentially different, and 
much more eflScient. It is capable of supplying two sepa- 
rate circuits of lamps. Four copper rings, insulated from 
each other and from the shaft, but fastened to it, serve to 



126 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



conduct the currents generated in the armature coils to the 
circuits through the springs which press on them. These 
are shown within the cylindrical space at the front end of 
the machine. (Fig. 79.) 

The ends of the armature coils can be connected with 
the contact rings in various ways, so as to vary the electro- 
motive force and current strength of the apparatus. The 
weight of the 40 magnets is 1080 kilogrammes, and their 
lifting power is 8000 kilogrammes. When run by eight- 
horse power and at a speed of 790 rotations per minute, it 
gives an electric arc light equal to 636 carcels from a Serrin 
lamp. When worked to its fullest capacity, it can feed 

Fie. 80. 




De M^itent* Machine for Continuaui Currents. 



thirty Jablochkoflf candles. These machines are mainly 
used in light-houses of England and France, because they 
run with ease and simplicity. 



MAGNBTO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 127 

De Meritens has constructed a magneto-electric machine 
-for continuous currents. This is illustrated in Fig. 80. The 
number of field-inagnet poles is reduced to f our^ as shown 
in the diagram, Fig. 77. The magnets have sixty-four 
laminae of steel of 1 millimetre thickness, and are fastened 
in place parallel with the shaft by two bronze rings, which 
together form the stand or supports. The armature id 
rotated within the cylindrical space so formed by the mag- 
nets. Sixteen long cogs project radially from the periphery 
of the wheel which carries the armature coils. 

The coils are wound upon a form made up of thin plates 
of iron cut somewhat like a double comb, and of a length to 
fit between the long cogs. As these forms have each three 
teeth, four spaces are left between each of the sixteen long 
oogs, or sixty-four spaces in all. The coils fill these spaces. 
The ends of these sixty-four coils are connected together to 
form a series, but a loop to the commutator, or collector 
rather, is led off from between each two spools. The col- 
lector is made up of sixty-four segments insulated from 
each other, and held together as a cylindrical whole. Each 
segment is connected with a loop. 

From the remarks made about Fig. 77, it will be gathered 
that from every two diametrically opposite points of the 
armature circuit, currents of the same 
direction and strength may be taken. ^® ^' 

Four systems of currents are formed, 
which have the maximum intensity 
at the points opposite the poles, and 
the minimum at the lines midway 
between the poles where they change '''^!;::MitTMZk:Z^'^ 
their direction, as indicated by the 
•cross lines in Fig. 77. At these four points the brushes 
are placed as in the Gramme machines. Two continuous 
currents are obtained, which may be combined as desired, 
either in series, or parallel. Machines of this kind are 




128 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

specially recommended for charging accimiulators^ or stor- 
age batteries, and for electrolytic purposes, as the current 
remains very constant, and reversed of polarity is not possi- 
ble, as in case of the series dynamo machines. [The shunt- 
wound dynamos, considered hereinafter, are better suited 
for electrolytic work and the charging of electric reservoirs, 
accumulators, or storage batteries, as they are stronger, 
and their polarity as well cannot be reversed by return- 
currents.— K.] 



PART IV. 

DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

3S. Siemens' I^rineiple of II>yiia.iiio- 
electric !M!a.cliines. I^iority in fttvor of 
Siemens ag-ainst TV^lieatstone. At the Paris 
Exposition, in 1867, a machine was exhibited in the English 
section of the machine gallery, which bore the sign ^^ Dy- 
nainO'Magneto-Machine. New Principle of Conversion of 
Dynamic Force, by W. Ladd." The two armatures were 
moved by the general power in the gallery, and gave a 
blinding electric light, without the use of a galvanic bat- 
tery, and without perceptible magnetism when at rest. 
The machine attracted considerable attention, as the princi- 
ple was new to the public generally. 

The professional man understood the new principle of 
the conversion of mechanical to electrical energy, as that 
had been communicated by Dr. W. Siemens to the Berlin 
Academy in January, 1867 ; and a machine made on that 
principle, of small size, however, to be moved by hand, was 
then in the Prussian section of the gallery. 

The part that Ladd had taken in the development of 
dynamo-electric, or dynamo-magnet machines, will be seen 
further on. But we must here explain that his claims in 
no way refer to the theoretical principles of the machine, 
but only to the arrangement of the parts. 

After Siemens had experimented with the new machine, 
built on this principle, in presence of several Berlin physi- 
cists, as early as December, 1866, he communicated the 

129 



130 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

facts to the Berlin Academy of Sciences, and his communi- 
cation came before a meeting of the society the middle of 
January, 1867. 

As the contents of this communication are conclusive in 
establishing his priority in the discovery of the principles 
of dynamo-electric machines, and as the principles are 
clearly defined and expressed therein, we print the paper 
as it was in the February nimiber of PoggendorflPs Anna- 
len (1867). 

" On the Conversion of Mechanical Fopce into the Elec- 
tric Current, without the use of Permanent Magnets. By 
W. Siemens. 

" If two parallel wires, each of which forms a part of 
separate galvanic circuits, are made to approach or recede 
from each other, changes in the strength of the currents in 
them are effected, and the character of these changes de- 
pends upon the relative directions of the two currents. 
The same phenomena occur, only in more marked degree, 
when the pole-ends of two electro-magnets, whose convolu- 
tions are parts of the same circuit, are made to approach or 
recede from each other. If the direction of the current in 
the wire be reversed at the moment of either the nearest 
approach or greatest withdrawal, as is mechanically done 
with the armatures of electro-mtignetic machines, a lasting 
decrease of the current of the circuit is noticed as soon as 
the machine is put in motion. This decrease in the cur- 
rent, which is due to opposing forces generated in the ap- 
paratus, prevents the successful use of electro-magnetic 
machines, or motors, driven by galvanic batteries. 

"But if one of these machines be moved by exterior 
power, mechanically applied, the current must be strength- 
ened by the induced currents which have the same direc- 
tion. As this increase in the current strengthens the 
electro-magnets, and these again increase the current in 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 131 

such rapid progression, the battery may be omitted without 
noticing any diminution of the current. 

"If the rotation be interrupted the current disappears, 
and the stationary electro-magnets lose their magnetism. 
The minute quantity of magnetism which always remains, 
even in the softest iron, after being once magnetized, suffices 
to start the progressive growth of current anew when the 
armature is again rotated. Hence it only requires the cur- 
rent from a galvanic battery to be passed through the convo- 
lutions of the stationary electro-magnets for a short time to 
make the apparatus capable of action for all time. The 
direction of the current which the apparatus produces is 
dependent upon the polarity of the residual magnetism. If 
the same be changed by a current through the convolutions 
in the contrary direction, all subsequent movements of the 
armature give rise to reversed currents. 

" The action just described must occur in every electro- 
magnetic machine, based upon attraction and repulsion of 
electro-magnets, the convolutions of which form parts of 
one and the same closed circuit. 

"The stationary magnet encircled by conunutated cur- 
rents in one direction must have sufficient magnetic lazi- 
ness to retain the greatest degree possible of magnetism 
without weakening during change of current. To effect 
this the pole-faces opposite each other must be so arranged 
that the magnetic circuit of the stationary electro-magnet 
remains closed by iron in their vicinity, while the movable 
electro-magnet rotates. These conditions are best met by 
the armature proposed by myself some time ago, and sub- 
sequently much used by myself and others. This arma- 
ture consists of an iron cylinder rotating upon its axis. 
The cylinder is provided with two opposite grooves parallel 
with the axis, which grooves carry the convolutions of the 
insulated wire. The pole-ends of the stationary electro- 
magnets encircle the circumference of this iron cylinder its 



132 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

whole length with the smallest possible intermediate space. 
(§ 31.) Currents of great strength can be generated by 
such a machine, if the proportions of the several parts have 
been correctly determined and the commutator correctly 
placed. Rapid rotation with closed circuits of small resist- 
ance generates so much heat from the current as to car- 
bonize the insulating material covering the wires. For 
<5ontinuous use this heat must be avoided by introduction 
of something resisting, or by decreasing the speed of 
rotation. 

"While the effects of the magneto-electric machines do 
not increase in proportion to increase in their dimensions, 
the contrary is the case with the machine described. The 
reason of this is in the fact that the strength of steel mag- 
nets does not increase in proportion with the mass of steel 
necessary for their production, and that the magnetic force 
of a large number of small steel magnets cannot be concen- 
trated on a small pole-surface without weakeliing the power 
of all the magnets to a marked degree, or of neutralizing 
some of them completely. Magnetic machines having steel 
magnets are therefore not adapted to the production of 
very strong continuous currents. Attempts have been 
made several times to produce strong magneto-electric ma- 
chines, and some have been made to give an intense elec- 
tric light; but they were necessarily made of enormous 
dimensions and consequently were very costly. (For in- 
stance the Alliance and Wilde machines.) The steel mag- 
nets soon lost the greatest part of their magnetism, and 
therefore the machine its strength. 

**0f late the mechanic Wilde, of Birmingham, has 
enlarged the capabilities of action of magneto-electric ma- 
chines to a gpreat degree, by combining two of my arma- 
tures just described to one machine. The larger armature 
is repeated between the poles of a large electro-magnet 
which is magnetized by the current generated in the 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 133 

smaller annatare rotated between the poles of permanent 
magnets ; so that the large electro-magnet becomes much 
stronger than the steel magnets which it replaces can. 
Consequently the current must be proportionately stronger. 

" It is easily seen that Wilde has to a great extent obvi- 
ated the described disadvantages o£ steel-magnet machines 
by his combination. Independent of the inconvenience 
attending the use of two armatures for the generation of 
•one useful current, his apparatus remains dependent upon 
Ihe unreliability of steel magnets. Means are now given to 
technology for the generation of electric currents of unlim- 
ited strength in a cheap and convenient manner^ in every 
jplace tvhere mechanical power is available. This fact is of 
great importance in many respects." 

In this paper by W. Siemens not only are the principles 
clearly shown of the new machine, but also the conditions 
,to be observed in perfecting its construction. By request 
-of Dr. W. Siemens, of Berlin, his brother, William Siemens, 
of London, had a small dynamo-electric machine made, 
and announced an address to the Royal Society with the 
following title : "On the conversion of Dynamical into 
Electrical Force without the aid of permanent magnetism," 
for the 14th of February, 1867. The anneuncement was 
jnade by circular two weeks in advance. 

After this announcement Prof Wheatstone announced 
an address for the same meeting under the title, " On the 
augmentation of the power of a magnet by the reaction 
:thereon of currents induced by the magnet itself." 

At the meeting of the royal society Wheatstone followed 
JSiemens with his address, and it then appeared that both 
[physicists treated on pretty much the same facts, princi- 
ples and conclusions in their addresses. 

[As nearly all the mechanical generators of electricity 
in prfu^tical use are of this class, which depends upon the 
so-called principle of "Mutual Accumulation," a verbatim 



134 DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

copy is here given of each of the papers read at that meet- 
ing by these gentlemen, from the "Proceedings" of the 
society.— K.] 

[*'0n the Conversion of Dynamical into Electrical Force, 
without the aid of Permanent Magnetism. By C. W. 
Siemens, F.R.S. Received Feb'y 4, 1867. 

** Since the great discovery of magnetic electricity by 
Faraday, in 1830, electricians have had recourse to mechan- 
ical force for the production of their most powerful effects ; 
but the power of the magneto-electrical machine seems to 
depend in an equal measure upon the force expended on the 
one hand, and upon permanent magnetism on the other. 

" An experiment, however, has been lately suggested to 
me by my brother, Dr. Werner Siemens, of Berlin, which 
proves that permanent magnetism is not requisite in order 
to convert mechanical into electrical force, and the result 
obtained by this experiment is remarkable, not only be- 
cause it demonstrates this hitherto unrecognized fact, 
but also because it provides a simple means of producing 
very powerful electrical effects. 

" The apparatus employed in this experiment is an elec- 
tro-magnetic machine consisting of -one or more horse-shoes 
of soft iron, surrounded with insulated wire in the usual 
manner, of a rotating keeper of soft iron surrounded also 
with an insulated wire, and of a commutator connecting 
the respective coils in the manner of a magneto-electric 
machine. If a galvanic battery were connected with this 
arrangement, rotation of the keeper in a given direction 
would ensue. If the battery were excluded from the cir- 
cuit and rotation imparted to the keeper in the opposite 
direction to that resulting from the galvanic current, there 
would be no electrical effect produced. Supposing the 
electro-magnets were absolutely free of magnetism, but by 
inserting a battery of a single cell in the circuit, a certain 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 135 

mag:netic condition would be set up, causing similar mag- 
netic poles to be forcibly approached to each other, and 
dissimilar poles to be forcibly severed, alternately, the rota- 
tion being contrary in direction to that which would be 
produced by the exciting current. 

'^ Each forcible approach of similar poles must augment 
the magnetic tension and increase consequently the power 
of the circulating current ; the resistance of the keeper to 
the rotation must also increase at every step until it reaches 
a maximum, imposed by the available force and the con- 
ductivity of the wires employed. 

"The cooperation of the battery is only necessary for a 
moment of time after the rotation has commenced, in order 
to introduce the magnetic action, which will thereupon 
continue to accumulate without its aid. 

"With the rotation the current ceases; and if, upon 
restarting the machine, the battery is connected with the 
circuit for a moment of time, with its poles reversed, then 
the direction of the continuous current produced by the 
machine will also be the reverse of what it was before. 

"Instead of employing a battery to commence the accu- 
mulative action of the machine, it suffices to touch the soft 
iron bars employed with a permanent magnet, or to dip the 
former into a position parallel to the magnetic axis of the 
earth, in order to produce the same phenomenon as before. 
Practically it is not even necessary to give any external 
impulse upon restarting the machine, the residuary mag- 
netism of the electro-magnetic arrangements employed be- 
ing found sufficient for that purpose. 

"The mechanical arrangement best suited for the pro- 
duction of these currents is that originally prepared by Dr. 
Werner Siemens, in 1867, consisting of a cylindrical keeper 
hollowed at two sides for the reception of insulated wire 
wound longitudinally, which is made to rotate between the 
poles of a series of permanent magnets, which latter are at 



136 DYNAMO-ELBCTRIG MACHINES. 

present replaced by electro-magnets. On imparting rota- 
. tion to the armature of such an arrangement, the mechan- 
ical resistance is found to increase rapidly, to such an ex- 
tent that either the driving-strap commences to slip, or the 
insulated wires constituting the coils are heated to the ex- 
tent of igniting their insulating silk covering. 

"It is thus possible to produce mechanically the most 
powerful electrical or calorific effects without the aid of 
steel magnets, which latter toe open to the practical objec- 
iiion of losing their permanent magnetism in use." 

•"* On the Augmentation of the Power of a Magnet by the 
reaction thereon of Currents induced by the Magnet 
itself. By Charles Wheatstone, F.R.S. Received 
Feb'y 14th, 1867. 

"The magneto-electric machines which have been hith- 
'orto described are actuated either by a permanent magnet 
or by an electro-magnet deriving its power from a rheomo- 
tor placed in the circuit of its coil. In the present note I 
intend to show that an electro-magnet, if it possesses alrtiie 
^commencement the slightest polarity, may become a power- 
ful magnet by the gradually augmenting currents which 
itself originates. 

"The following is a description of the form and dimen- 
sions of the electro-magnet I have employed. The con- 
;struction, it will be seen, is the same as that of Mr. Wilde's 
machine. The core of the electro-magnet is formed of a 
plate of soft iron 15 inches in length and ^ an inch in 
breadth [evidently thickness, breadth not given ; probably 
about 8 inches — K.], bent at the middle of its length into a 
liorse-shoe form. Round it is coiled, in the direction of its 
breadth, 640 feet of insulated copper wire ^ of an inch in 
xiiameter. The armature, which is according to Siemens' 
ingenious construction, consists of a rotating cylinder of 
jsof t iron, 8^ inches in length, grooved at two opposite sides 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 137 

SO as to allow the wire to be coiled upon it longitudinally ; 
the length of the wire thus coiled is 80 feet, and the diame- 
ter is the same as that of the electro-magnet coil. 

"When this electro-magnet is excited by any rheomotor 
the current from which is in a constant direction, during 
the rotation of the armature, currents are generated in its 
-coil during each semi-revolution, which are alternately in 
opposite directions; the alternate currents may be trans- 
mitted unchanged to another part of the circuit, or by 
means of a rheotrope be converted to the same direction. 

"If, now, while the circuit of the armature remains 
•completed, the rheomotor be removed from the electro- 
magnet, on causing the armature to revolve, however rap- 
idly, it will be found by interposition of a galvanometer, or 
any other test, that but very slight effects take place. 
"Though these effects become stronger in proportion to the 
residual magnetism left in the electro-magnet from the pre- 
Arious action of a ctmwait, they never attain any considera- 
ble amount. * 

"But if the wires of the two circuits be so joined as to 
form a single circuit, in which the currents generated by 
the armature, after being changed to the same direction, 
:act so as to increase the existing polarity of the electro- 
magnet, very different results will be obtained. The force 
required to move the machine will be far greater, showing 
a great increase of magnetic power in the horse-shoe ; and 
the existence of an energetic current in the wire is shown 
by its action on a galvanometer, by its heating 4 inches of 
platinum wire .0067 in diameter, by its making a powerful 
-electro-magnet, by its decomposing water, and by other 
tests. 

"The explanation of these effects is as follows: — The 
-electro-magnet always retains a slight residual magnetism, 
And is therefore in the condition of a weak permanent mag- 
net, the motion of the armature occasions feeble currents 



138 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in alternate directions in the coils thereof, which, after be- 
ing reduced to the same direction, pass into the coils of the 
electro-magnet in such a manner as to increase the mag- 
netism of the iron core ; the magnet having thus received 
an accession of strength, produces in its turn more ener- 
getic currents in the coils of the armature, and these alter- 
nate actions continue until the maximum is attained, 
depending on the rapidity of the motion and the capacity 
of the electro-magnet. 

**If the two coils be connected in such a manner that 
the rectified current from the coil of the armature passes 
into the coil of the electro-magnet in the direction which 
would impart a contrary magnetism to the iron core, no 
current is produced, and consequently there is no augmen- 
tation of magnetism. 

"It is easy to prove that the residual magnetism of the 
electro-magnet is the determining cause of these powerful 
effects. For this purpose it is sufficient to pass a current 
from a voltaic battery, a magneto-electric machine, or any 
other rheomotor, into the coil of the electro-magnet in 
either direction, and it will invariably be found that the 
direction of the current, however powerful it may eventu- 
ally become, is in accordance with the polarity of the mag- 
netism impressed on the iron core. 

" If, instead of the currents in the coil of the rotating 
armature being reduced to the same uniform direction, 
they retain their alternations, no effects, or, at most, very 
small differential ones, are produced, as no accumulation 
of magnetism then takes place. 

"I will now call attention to the fact that stronger 
effects are produced at the first moment of completing the 
combined circuit than afterwards. The machine having 
been put in motion, at the first moment of completing the 
circuit 4 inches of platina were made red-hot, but immedi- 
ately afterwards the glow disappeared and only about one* 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 139 

inch of the wire could be kept at a red heat. This diminu- 
tion of effect was accompanied by a great increase of the 
resistance of the machine. The cause of the momentary- 
strong effect was, that the machine, from its acquired mo- 
mentum, continued its motion for a few seconds, though it 
required a stronger force than could be applied to continue 
that motion. Each time the circuit is broken and recom- 
pleted the same effect occurs. 

"On bringing the primary coil of an inductorium 
{Buhmkoff's coil) into the circuit formed by connecting the 
•coils of the electro-magnet and rotating armature, no spark 
occurs in the secondary coil. On account of the great 
resistance of the circuit, which now also includes the 
primary coil of the inductorium, the current is not in 
sufScient quantity to produce any noticeable inductive 
effect. 

** A very remarkable increase of all of the effects, accom- 
panied by a diminution in the resistance of the machine, is 
observed when a cross-wire is placed so as to divert a great 
portion of the current from the electro-magnet. The four 
inches of platinum wire, instead of flashing into redness 
and then disappearing, remains permanently ignited. The 
inductorium, which before gave no spark, now gave one a 
quarter of an inch in length, water was more abundantly 
decomposed, and all the other effects were similarly in- 
<;reased. 

" I account for this augmentation in the following way : 
Though so much of the current is diverted from the electro- 
magnet by the cross-wire, the magnetic effect still continues 
to accumulate, though not to so high a degpree ; but the cur- 
rent generated by the armature, passing through the short 
circuit formed by the armature branch and the short wire, 
experiences a far less resistance than if it had passed 
through thfe armature and electro-magnet branches, and 
though the electro-motive force is less, the resistance hav- 



140 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

ing been rendered less in much greater proportion, the 
resultant effect is greater. 

"I must observe that a certain amount of resistance in 
the cross- wire is necessary to produce the maximum effect. 
If the resistance be too small, the electro-magnet does not 
acquire sufficient magnetism ; and if it be too great, though 
the magnetism becomes stronger, the increase of resistance 
more than counterbalances its effect. 

"But the effects already described are far inferior to 
those obtained by causing them to take place in the cross- 
wire itself. With the same application of force, 7 inches 
of platinimi wire were made red-hot, and sparks were 
elicited in the inductorium 2^ inches in length. 

" The force of two men was employed in these as well as 
in other experiments. When the interrupts of the primary 
coil was fixed, the machine was much easier to move than 
when it acted. For when the interrupter acted, at each 
moment of interruption the cross-wire being, as it were, 
removed, the whole current passed through the electro- 
magnet, and consequently a greater amount of magnetic 
energy was excited, while in the intervals during which the 
cross-wire was complete, the current passed mainly through 
the primary coil. 

" The effects are much less influenced by a resistance in 
the electro-magnet branch than in either of the other 
branches. 

*'To reduce the length of the spark in the inductorium 
(the primary coil of which was placed in the cross-wire) to 
i of an inch, it required the resistance of 5J inches of the 
fine platinum wire in the cross- wire, 5 inches in the arma- 
ture branch, and 4 in the electro-magnet branch. 

" When there was no extra resistance in either of the 
branches, the length of the cross-wire being only about a 
few feet, the intensity of the current in the electro-magnet 
branch, compared with that in the cross-wire, was as 1 : 60 ;. 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MiLCHINirS>. 141 

and when the resistance of the primary coil of the induc- 
torium was interposed in the cross-wire, the relative inten- 
sities were as 1 : 42. 

** In conclusion, I will mention that there is an evident 
analogy between the augmentation of the power of a weak 
magnet by means of an inductive action produced by itself, 
and that accumulation of power shown in the static electric 
machines of Holtz and others, which have recently excited 
considerable attention, in which a very small quantity of 
electricity directly excited is, by a series of inductive ac- 
tions, augmented so as to equal, and even exceed,, the effects 
of the most powerful machines of the ordinary construc- 
tion."— K.] 

A comparison of the two addresses shows that the 
dynamo-electric machines of Wheatatone does not differ 
materially from that of Siemens. But the address of 
Wheatstone ovXy contains the facts which had been pub- 
lished by Siemens six weeks previously, BnA publicly proven 
by exi)eriment. The reason for WTieatston^s^ claimed nov- 
elty in increasing the incandescent effect by using a branch 
circuit was simply that he made the respective resistances 
very uneven. The maximum of effect is had when the 
resistances of the two coils are the same. 

[The discovery of this principle of ** mutual accumula- 
tion," as it is now sometimes called, is claimed by other 
parties. Prof. Moses G. Farmer, of Massachusetts, I believe 
claims priority ; though he did not apply for a patent until 
1873, and a patent was granted to him in 1875, His claim 
on that point reads as follows : ^' A dynamo-electric ma- 
chine, constructed substantially as set forth, in which the 
electro-magnetic field is sustained solely by the magnetism 
produced by currents which, circulating in it, are evolved 
from the armature which rotates in this field." Clearly, 
then, his patent is anticipated by these descriptions made 
by Siemens and Wheatstone in 1867, 



142 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Furthermore, a patent granted to Lontin and D'lvemois 
in the United States in 1869, shows a machine in which the 
magnetism is sustained solely by the currents from the 
armature. Holmes in his machine also used part of the 
•currents to sustain the magnetism. Qramme, in his U. S. 
patent of 1871, describes a machine in which the current 
evolved by the armature sustains the magnetism of the 
machine. 

The following letter from Prof. Moses Q. Farmer explains 
his claims as to priority in discovery of the principle of 
noiutual accumulation : 

** Ablinoton Heights, Feb. lOth, 1882. 
*'N. S. Keith, Esq. : 

*' Dear Sir— I have not all my notes at hand, but from 
what I have, I gather the following : 

" Some time in the early part of the year 1860, a friend 
described to me an invention which he had made many 
years previous, and which he called a cascade or cataract 
magneto-electric machine. 

"It was to be constructed in the following manner: 
There was to be a magneto-electric machine of the ordinary 
type, having a field formed by a permanent steel magnet. 
In the field of this magnet was to revolve an armature 
which was to generate a current of electricity that should 
energize a large electro-magnet, which should form the 
second field of the magnetic cascade. In the electro- 
magnetic field of this second machine was to revolve a 
larger armature, which should furnish a current to support 
and supply the electro-magnetic field of a third and still 
larger magneto-electric machine, and the current from the 
armature of this third magneto-electric machine was to be 
used either for the purpose of performing useful external 
worls: or for exciting and maintaining the field of a much 
larger machine. It is evident that this series could be con- 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES, 148 

iinued indefinitely, limited only by the power required to 
dnve the several machines. While thinking over the pos- 
jsibilities of this combination, the thought occurred to me, 
why not divert a portion of the current from the second 
iirmature of the series to support its own (second) electro- 
magnetic field. This device seemed to me important, and I 
determined at some future time to develop the idea, but was 
at that time, and for some J;ime subsequently, hindered 
from trying the experiment, and it was not until April, 
1865, that I foimd opportunity to try the experiment. I 
then took a magneto-electric machine of the kind generally 
in use, and prolonged or supplemented the poles of the per- 
manent field-magnet by the use of two (2) soft iron projec- 
tions, each having a coil or spool of wire placed upon it. 

" Beyond these was placed the usual revolving armature 
with its coils. This construction or combination virtually 
amounted to the insertion of two (2) straight electro- 
magnets between the armature and the poles of its exciting 
field. I then turned the current from the armature through 
the coils of these supplemental field-cores, and found that 
the work done was greater when the supplementary field- 
coils were used than when they were omitted and the 
armature revolved simply in the presence of the permanent 
magnetic field. I soon after that built a machine without 
any permanent magnet in it. This second machine very 
much resembled *Qriscom's' electro-magnetic motor, re^ 
cently patented in the United States, but, owing perhaps to 
the small amount of wire upon the electro-magnetic field, it 
did not succeed in solving the problem of mutual accumu- 
lation, and it was not until the following year that I built a 
third machine with a much larger magnetic fields and then 
I had the satisfaction of seeing the problem of mutual re- 
action and accumulation fairly solved. 

**This third machine had a cast-iron armature of the 
well-known Siemens type of 1856. This armature was 



144 DYNAMO-BLECTBIO MACHINES. 

about four (4) or five (5) inches in length, and perhaps one 
and a half (1^) inches in diameter. It had two (2) independ- 
ent circuits of number fourteen (14) copper wire, one circuit 
had two (2) layers and the other three (3) layers of wire. 
The machine had two (2) commutators, one for each- arma- 
ture circuit. The field of force was produced by an electro- 
magnet, the coils of which had an external diameter of six 
(6) inches and a length of about eight (8) inches. The total 
weight of field wire was sixty (60) or seventy (70) pounds. 
The weight of armature wire was less than two (2) pounds. 
The cores of the field-magnet were two (2) inches in diam- 
eter and eight (8) or nine (9) inches in length. The distance 
apart of their centres was about six and one-half (6i^) inches. 
Cubical blocks of cast iron about three and one-half (3^) 
inches on a side were used as prolongations of the field- 
cores and to abut against the cast-iron cheeks within which 
the armature revolved. In my first experiments, I excited 
the electro-magnetic field of this machine by the current 
from a powerful thermo-electric battery. In my next ex- 
periment, I conducted the current from one of the armature 
circuits through the electro-magnetic field, and used the 
current from the other armature circuit to do external work, 
and found that it would do as much work as two (2) Bunsen 
cells of a gallon-jar size. I next included the two (2) arma- 
ture circuits, also the field circuit and the external circuit, 
all in series, and found the work which the machine would 
perform was very greatly increased. Some time in October^ 
1866, I think it was, I wrote some account of my experi- 
ments to Mr. Henry Wilde, of Manchester, England, and h^ 
read a portion of my letter at one of the meetings, at which 
the communications of Professor Wheatstone and Mr. C. W. 
Siemens were under discussion, and this portion of my 
letter was published in one of the Manchester philosophies^ 
magazines, but as I have not my notes with me I am unable 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 145 

to fix the date, but think it was published some time in Feb- 
ruary, 1867. 

" Yours respectfully, 

"MOSES G. FAEMER/' 



" Proceedings of the Manchester (England) Literary and 
Philosophical Society," vol. 6, page 107 : 

" Mr. Wilde has also received a letter on the subject of 
his recent experiments in magnetism from Moses Q. Far- 
mer, of Salem, Mass., U. S., dated Nov. 9th, 1866, in which 
he says that he had obtained an increase of 31 per cent, in 
the power of a magneto-electric machine by transmitting 
the current from the armature through coils of wire sur- 
roimding pieces of soft iron forming the prolonged extrem- 
ities of the permanent magnets of the machine. Mr. 
Farmer in the same letter adds : ' I have built a small 
machine, in which a current from the thermo-battery ex- 
cites the electro-magnet of your machine to start it, and 
after the machine is in action a branch from the current of 
the magnets passes through its own electro-magnet, and 
this supplies the magnetisms required. It is not exactly 
like a person standing in a basket and trying to lift himself, 
because the electricity proceeds from the conversion of the 
mechanical energy, which must be continually supplied. 
Neither can it in any wise be likened to the various schemes 
for producing perpetual motion, but depends on the princi- 
ple that the actual energy of the mechanical force, con- 
jointly with the potential energy of the magnet, can develop 
a gresLter amount of potential energy than is originally 
resident in the magnet, or, in other words, it is a method 
of converting part of the actual energy of the prime mover 
into the potential energy of magnetism.' '' — K.] 
7 



146 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



30. Siemens' I>ynamo-Electrlc IMa- 
eliine. The arrangement and action of the parts of 
the simplest dynamo-electric machine, built on the plan 
of Siemens, can be seen in Fig. 82. . B B are the limbs 



Fio. 82 




Siemfms* Dynamo-Electric Machine. 



of the electro-magnet. The cores are plates of soft iron 
about 60 centimetres long, 50 centimetres wide, and 10 cen- 
timetres thick. They are bolted to the cast-iron head-block 
in obvious manner. They are wound each with 27 metres 
of a thick, well insulated copper wire. The pole ends are 
at C C, and they are cut out in the shape of a "circle- 
segment " to partially envelop the armature n, [The figure 
does not show the circular cut. — K.] The armature is of 
the Siemens type previously described. 

[Having such a commutator as is shown in Fig. 63, it is 
strange that the drawing and Dr. Schellen's description 
show the springs 1 and 2 bearing, one upon an insulated 
sleeve and the other on the axis, which latter is connected 
with one end of the wire of the armature, and the former 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



147 



with the other end, which arrangement has previously 
been described herein as that for collecting alternate cur- 
rents. — K.] 



Fie. 83. 




'WkeaMon^t Dynamo. 

As the clamps a b are in connection with the ends d c of 
the wire convolutions of the electro-magnet B B, it is clear 
that the induced currents of the armature n have a course 
through 1, a, d, B, B, c, 6 and 2, and strengthen its mag- 
netism. The arrangement for rotating the armature is not 
shown, as that can be effected by any proper mechanical 
means. 

Before the machine will work it is necessary to mag- 
netize the electro-magnet by passing an electric current 
through its coils. [It may be magnetized by magnetic con- 



148 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

tact. — K.] The remanent magnetism^ or as it is also called 
the residual magnetism, is sufficient then to generate a 
current in the armature for the start. 

As soon as the armature is rotated weak induced cur- 
rents arise in its coils, which, flowing through the coils B B, 
increase the magnetism of their cores, and therefore the 
induced currents of the armature, and so on, progressively, 
until the maxima of magnetism and electric current are 
reached, which are limited by the mass of iron and the 
speed of the armature rotation. * 

Because the principle of this machine is based uj)on the 
conversion of mechanical energy into electrical and mag- 
netic force, it has received the name of dynamo-electric, or 
dynamo-magnetic machine, [Figure 83 illustrates one of 
Wheatstone's dynamos made at about the same time.] 
The history of the discovery of the principle of "mutual 
accumulation" would be incomplete without reference to 
the claims made in behalf of Hjorth, Varley and an im- 
known inventor. 

In 1854 Hjorth set forth in certain British patents a com- 
bination of permanent magnets with electro-magnets, to- 
gether constituting the field of force magnets of a machine. 
The armature coils and electro-magnet coils are placed in 
series, on one circuit, as in the modern dynamos ; he did 
not trust to residual magnetism on which to build, but de- 
pended upon the permanent magnets to induce a current in 
the armature, which current raised the strength of the 
electro-magnetic field. 

In 1858 an unknown inventor secured provisional pro- 
tection under British laws in the name of J. H. Johnson, a 
patent agent, for a dynamo-electric machine. His specifi- 
cation contains the following words : "It is also proposed 
to employ the electro-magnets in obtaining induced elec- 
tricity, which supplies wholly or partially the electricity 
necessary for polarizing the electro-magnets, which elec- 



T)T3rAMO-BLECTKIC MACHINES. 149 

tricity would otherwise be required to be obtained from 
batteries or other Jcnown sources." It would seem that this 
inventor did not have faith enough in his proposition to 
cause him to eoniplete his patent by further payments in 
order to get the Oreat Seal and the protection which ac- 
i^ompanies it 

December 24th, 1866, Mr. S. Alfred Varley filed in the 
JBritish patent office a provisional specification for a dy- 
namo-electric machine, but under the law this was not 
<published imtil July, 1867. 

Like many other important discoveries this seems to 
have been made by various scientific men. Farmer^ Sie- 
mens, Wheatstoney and Varley, almost simultaneously. 
Their discovery was due to the advances in the science and 
art which made clear this next step. The machine of 
Hjorth was not a dynamo in the strict sense, and the un- 
known inventor was probably an impractical dreamer at 
that day, unwittingly far ahead of his time. — K.] 

SV. Siemens-Halske's I>ynamo-Elec- 
i:i*lc A^larai a.nd IMine Exploder. If, with 
the previously described machines, after rotating the arma- 
ture until the electro-magnets become quite strong, the 
circuit be broken, at that break a strong spark will be pro- 
duced at the moment of breaking, which is well adapted to 
the firing of explosives in mining. In somewhat a like 
w^ay, when the magnetism has become sufficiently strong, 
the current may be suddenly turned into a branch circuit, 
ivhere it may ring alarm-bells or work other signalling 
■apparatus. 

It was for such a purpose the first one-armature dynamo- 
•electric machine was built by Siemens. This was the 
machine with which he publicly experimented in Decem- 
ber, 1866, and exhibited at the Paris World's Fair in 1867 as 
a scientific novelty. 



150 



DYNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 



Fig. 84 shows the machine in perspective, and Fig. 85 i^ 
a diagram showing the circuit arrangement. 



Fis. 84. 




Siemens-Halski s DynantO'Eiectric Mine Exploder. 



E is the electro-magnet ; B B are the poles, which have 
faces concentric with the armature A in a great part of its 
length and circumference, and are as close to the armature 
'as possible and allow it to freely rotate without touching^ 
them. In Fig. 85, the armature is shown in its real posi- 
tion, but for purposes of illustration it is also shown 
removed and enlarged, as the course of the entire circuit 
can be, in that way, better followed. 

By the crank the two cog-wheels R r' are put in motion. 
Bapid rotation is thus given to the armature A through the 
pinion t. C is the commutator of common construction^ 
having springs pressing on it diametrically opposite. The 
wheel r' at the same time turns the wheel r upon which the 
circuit closing and opening disk F is fastened. This disk 
has a slot cut in its periphery, into which the projection o 
of the lever D falls at each two rotations of the cranks 



DYI^AilO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 



151 



When the projection o is not in the slot it slides on the disk 
F, keeping a spriAg on the lever D in contact with the con- 
tact-screw S, as sh^wn more clearly in Fig. 85. 



Fi». 8S. 




UVL 



Circuit of Mint Exploder, 



The operation of the machine is as follows : In starting 
at first, a current from a galvanic battery is caused to pass 
through the wire convolutions of the electro-magnet for a 
moment. Enough magnetism will remain for all time to 
start the current when the armature is rotated. 

By turning the crank, the armature will be rotated, cur- 
rents generated in its coils pass through commutator C C 
over X y, and traverse the convolutions of the electro- 
magnet in the course a:, C, 1, «, d, e", 2, E, 3, C, and y. The 
building up of the current and magnetism progresses as 
before described. 

The short circuit is closed during the time that the pro- 
jection o bears upon the disk F in its rotation, as d is in 
contact with s. But when the cut allows o to enter it and 
d to fall, that circuit is opened, and the current takes the 
long circuit through Lg L W, etc. 



/ 
152 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHJ^KES. 

These last letters may represent the mines to be fired, 
.-the alarm-bells rung, etc. 

The short circuit having small resistance, allows the 
flow of enough current to fully charge the magnet, but 
when the long circuit only comes momentarily into use, the 
magnetism is nearly all discharged with considerable ten- 
sion and a like current of electricity through it. 

When o again raises d in contact with 5, current flows 
almost entirely again through the short circuit, recharges 
the magnet, and continued rotation repeats the discharge. 

Besides the small machine driven by. hand, Siemens and 
Halske exhibited at the Paris exposition a larger four- 
^armahire mac'hine of similar construction. 

38. Smitli's Electric Bla^sting- TMCa- 
<^]iiiie. Figures 86 and 87 show longitudinal and cross 
sections of the " Electric Blasting Machine '' made by the 
Hend-rock Powder Co., New York City, and is the invention 
of H. J. Smith. The armature and field electro-magnet are 
of the kind last described. 

The rack-bar is first drawn upward as far as possible, 
but without rotating the armature, by reason of the ratchet- 
like engagement of the pinion C with the armature. On 
pushing the rack-bar rapidly downward, the ratchet-teeth 
of the pinion engage with like teeth fixed to the head of the 
armature, and the armature is rapidly rotated. The cur- 
rent generated in the armature is passed through the coils 
of the field-magnet to the spring D, and through E back to 
the armature through the commutator F. The wires pass- 
ing to and from D and E are connected each to a binding- 
post, one of which is shown at the left of Fig. 86. From 
these posts the circuit to the fuses to be ignited is led. The 
spring contacts D and E serve to opai of close the circuit of 
low resistance of which they are a part. The circuit to the 
fuses is a derived one of much higher resistance. When 



DYNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 



163 



the rack-bar is pushed downward, the greater part, by far, 
ot the current flows through D and E, until the magnetic 



Fio. 86. 



Pig. 87. 





Lcngitudinal and Vertical Section ^f 
Smithes Biasting Machine. 



Vertical Crott'Section of 
Smith's Blotting Machine, 



strength of the field is raised to its highest. At that instant 
the lower end of the bar strikes the spring D and moves it 
away from E, breaking that circuit. 

A very intense current of high electro-motive force then 
flows in the circuit to the fuses, idiere it heats to incandes- 
-cence bits of platinum wire, which in their turn ignite the 
fulminate enveloping them. Though the armature stops 
with the cessation of motion of the bar, the acciunulated 
-energy is discharged as a current of electricity in the only 
•circuit left, — ^that through the fuses. 



154 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

In the figures, "A is the field electro-magnet; B the= 
axmature ; C the loose pinion, its teeth engaging the rack- 
bar, and by clutching also engaging with the spindle of the 
armature on the downward stroke (only) of the rack-bar ; 
D the spring, which, when struck by the foot of the rack- 
bar, breaks the contact between two small platinum bear- 
ings, and this causes the whole current of electricity to pass 
through the outside circuit, the leading wire and fuses ; E, 
the two platinum bearings, one on the upper face of the 
spring, and the other on the under side of the yoke over the 
spring ; and F the commutator." 

The machine as made for the market weighs about six- 
teen pounds and occupies considerably less than one-half 
cubic foot of space. 

3Q. Ladd^s T^vo-A^finatiire I>;v-^^^- 
mo-Electi'ic IMachtine. March 14th, 1867, Wil- 
liam Ladd, proprietor of a renowned mechanical and opti- 
cal workshop in London, made a communication to tht) 
Royal Society y under the title '' On a Magneto-Electric Ma- 
chine,'' as follows : 

"In June, 1864, I obtained of Wilde a small magneto- 
electric machine, which consisted of six magnets and a 
Siemens armature. I endeavored to improve upon it, and 
to make a machine to light the Abel fuse. I attained this 
by making circular grooves in the magnet poles, in which 
grooves the armature was rotated. By the aid of this 
arrangement it was possible to give the electro-magnet 
great strength. 

** My assistant afterwards told me that it would be im- 
proved by winding the armature with two wires, one of 
which, by its current, could be used to sustain the mag- 
netism of the electro-magnet, and the other current could 
be employed for exterior work. Two armatures could also* 



DYNAMO-BLECTEIC MACHINES. 165 

he used, one for sustaining the magnetism and the other 
for firing mines, or for other purposes. 

" For want of time I could not pursue these ideas any 
further at the time. But, after the interesting treatises of 
Siemens and Wheatstone, I brought the idea forward and 
gave it the following execution : 

"Two plates of soft iron, each 7i inches long, 2^ inches 
wide and ^ inch thick, were wound separately around their 
middles with about 30 yards of No. 10 insulated copper 
wire, and provided at each end with shoes of soft iron in 
such a manner that when placed one over the other, spaces 
were left in which two Siemens armatures could rotate. 
Each of these armatures was wound with about ten yards 
of No. 14 insulated copper wire. The ends of the wire of 
one of the armatures were in continuous connection with 
the wire coils of the electro-magnet, while the current of 
the other armature was entirely free and could be employed 
for any purpose. Though the machine was roughly made 
on a small scale, and only intended to illustrate the princi- 
ple, a platinum wire 3 inches long was made to glow." 

Ladd took his exhibition machine to Paris in May, 1867. 
To him belongs, without doubt, the honor of having first 
perfected a dynamo-electric machine with two armatures. 
As his communication shows, he does not claim to have 
discovered the principle involved. 

Fig. 88 shows Ladd's exhibition machine. The two flat 
oores, B D, of soft iron are 60 centimeters long, 50 broad, 1 
thick, and placed parallel about 8 centimeters apart. Each of 
these is wound with 27 metres of thick, well insulated copper 
wire. The four ends, A A, of these iron plates project on 
the sides of the wire coils, and are attached to four blocks, 
C C C C, which are curved to form the poles of two distinct 
electro-magnets, and partially surround the armatures. 
The coils are so connected that a current passing through 
them would magnetize the poles with opposite polarity. 



156 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



Between these four pole-faces two Siemens armature^ 
m n, are set in rapid rotation by a steam engine. Currents 
are generated in the manner hereinbefore described. The 
current from armature n is conducted through the coils of 
the two electro-magnets B D as shown. The current from 
the other armature is conducted through the commutator 
m, springs F' and spiral wires to the electric light H. 

Fie. 88. 




Ladd's AfacAiHt. 

With this machine, as with others of its class, it is 
necessary to give the cores of the magnet some magnetic 
polarity before it will generate current. 

The armature at the right sustains the magnetism, and 
that at the left is free to be used for industrial purposes. 

In the machine at the Paris exposition the second arma- 
ture was almost double the diameter of the other, and its 
circuit included a Duboscq lamp or regulator. It was stated 
that one horse-power applied to this machine gave a light 
equal to one produced by 40 Bunsen cells of medium size. 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



157 



The same current heated a platinum wire more than 1 metre 
long and i millimeter in diameter white-hot. The maximum 
number of rotations of the armatures was 1800 per minute. 



Fio.80. 




Ladd's Machine. 



In the dynamo-electric machines built later by Ladd 
and by Ruhmkorffy who had obtained the right from Ladd to 
build machines after his English pattern, a return was 
made td the one-armature system, not only for the small 
machines made for experimental purposes in physical cab- 
inets and chemical laboratories, but also for the large ma- 
chines built for the production of electric light. 

Ladd's machine (Fig. 89) then consisted of an electro- 
magnet set in vertical position as in Wilde's machine (Fig. 
72), having a core of wrought iron, with shoes at the poles, 
cut out in segmental form for the reception of the ar- 
mature. 



168 DYNAMO-BLECTEIC MACHINES. 

In this way the apparatus had but one magnet with two 
poles, which were elongated along the axial direction of its 
armature. The armature was made up of two Siemens' 
armatures placed end to end, but fastened together so that 
two axial extensions answered for both. These two divi- 
sions had their magnetic axes at right angles, and each 
had its own independent wire-coil. One was about one- 
half the length of the other, and its wire-coils were con- 
nected through the usual commutator on the axial exten- 
sion and the springs and connections, with the coils of the 
electro-magnet, which it served to charge with magnetism. 
THe ends of the other coil were carried to insulated rings 
on the other axial extension, and by springs to the outer 
<5ircuit for cases in which alternate currents were desirable. 

In cases where currents of one direction were wanted 
the usual commutator was used. The principles and opera- 
tion hereinbefore described apply to this machine. They 
have been made of small size, to be worked by hand-power, 
of a strength of 4 or 6 Bunsen cells, as well as of large 
dimensions for the application of steam-power in the pro- 
duction of electric light. 

Experiments with the large machines showed that from 
various causes they became so strongly heated as often to 
burn, or char, the insulating materials to the extent of 
making the machine useless until repaired. 

This extraordinary heat is due to the strong resistance 
which the machine offers to the rotation of its armature by 
reason of the attraction of the electro-magnet for the arma- 
ture-core. The power employed is only partially converted 
into magnetism and electricity, while the rest is converted 
into heat, which is not only lost, but exerts a deleterious 
effect upon the machine as described. These phenomena 
account for the waste of mechanical power applied to such 
dynamo-electric machines. 

Ladd has endeavored to counteract to some extent the 



BYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 159 

evils attending the production of heat in the machines, by 
causing a current of cold water to run throujgh the interior 
of the armature, in passages constructed for the purpose. 

[The explanation given by Dr. Schellen of the conserva- 
tion of the mechanical power applied to the machines is not 
a satisfactory one. The mechanical power, heat, magnetism, 
and electricity are merely the names of different manifesta- 
tions of one agent, energy. In the assemblage of materials 
which make up the machine and circuit no one of these 
manifestations is exhibited without all the others. A defi- 
nite amount of heat is due to a definite current of electricity 
in a given resistance, and so also to a defined dynamic 
action and to magnetism, interchangeably and interde- 
pendently. There are currents of electricity generated in 
value due to the heat exhibited, but as the assemblage of 
materials in this machine are not such as to allow of the 
complete utilization of them, exterior to the machine, they 
having only local, interior circuits in which to act, some 
physicists have erroneously given the explanation which 
implies that only heat is produced. Heat results from the 
local and amperean currents generated in the iron masses. 
-K.] 

4rO. Sieixiens-Ha.lske T^wo-A.i*iiiatia.re 
I>yiiamo-Electric IMachine was constructed 
«o that various combinations could be made of varying 
lengths of wire to each armature and electro-magnet. The 
■completed machine weighed 1000 kilogrammes. The weight 
of insulated copper, wire on the two armatures and the elec- 
tro-magnets was 208 kilogrammes. The wire was 2i milli- 
metres in diameter on each armature, and weighed 30 
kilogrammes. The wire on each limb of the magnet 
weighed 60 kilogrammes, and was 3 millimetres in diam- 
eter. Each armature had about 200 convolutions and a 
jreBistance of 1.57 ohms. 



160 BYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

Each magnet limb had about 400 convolutions and a 
resistance of 0.28 ohms. The resistance of the wire of the 
whole machine was about 3.80 ohms. 

Under the common arrangement, by which one armature 
charged the field electro-magnets and the other gave the 
working current, a motor of four or five horse-power was 
required, and the dynamic and light effects were uncom- 
monly strong and appropriate to the size of the machine* 
The decomposition of water gave 10 cubic centimetres of 
oxy-hydrogen gas per second. The electric light was ex- 
tremely intense and even blinding in daylight. 

[-il. Hoolilia.i3.sen's T>yiiamo-Electric 
]M[£ioliiiie for Gralvanoplastic Pixrposes. 

This machine, the invention of William Hochhausen, is 
illustrated in Figs. 90 and 91. The electro field-magnet 
resembles that of Wilde, Fig. 72, as does its armature. It 
is inverted so that its poles are at the top. This is done for 
convenience, as it raises the working parts to a position 
that allows access to them without inconvenience. The 
armature has a section resembling that shown in Figs. 67 
and 68. Instead of having a uniform cross-section like 
that of Fig. 68, the segmental parts are decreased in section 
at their edges, near the centre of the length of the arma- 
ture, so that in their passage from the poles during rotation 
the change of magnetism is more gradual, or, in other 
words, less abrupt. This construction somewhat lessens 
the spark which is seen at the commutator when an anua- 
ture of the former construction is used. The machine 
shown in Fig. 91 is mounted upon a stand of cast-iron, 
which carries a countershaft with tight and loose pulley, 
and at the end a cone pulley for belting to the armature, 
for the purpose of changing the speed. The pulley oh the 
armature is attached to a heavy disk of iron which acts as 
a fiy-wheel, to insure steadiness of motion. The space 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



16X 



between the poles of the field-magnet is covered by sections 
of non-magnetic metal, so as to enclose the armature space 
as in a water-tight cylinder. A small stream of water is 
admitted through the nozzle shown on the top of the 
machine, and is allowed to flow out below, through an out- 
let not shown, for the purpose of conducting away heat 

Fig. 90. 




HockAausen^t Dynamo- EUctric Mackitu {fargi)/or Galvanoplastie Work, 

which is generated in the armature during its working 
when heavy currents are produced. One end of the arma- 
ture coil of wire, or other conductor, is fastened to the iron 
core of the armature ; while the other end is, by an exten- 
sion, carried through the axis of the armature at the 
commutator end and connected with one division of the 
conmiutator. The other division of the commutator is 
connected directly to the metal of the armature. The 



162 



BYNAMO-BLBCTBIC HACHINBS. 



brushes for collecting the current are carried upon a yoke, 
and are insulated on it from each other. One of the brushes 
is electrically connected directly with one of the binding- 




HockkauseiCt Dynamo- Eltctric Mackimg {tmall)f0r Galvanoplattie Work, 



posts shown on the front end, while the other brush is 
connected to one end of the coils of the field-magnet. In 
the machine illustrated the magnet conductors are made of 



BTNA MO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



163 



sheet copper, and the separate coils are insulated from one 
another by sheet paper, or other insulating material. The 
final end of the coils is connected with the other binding- 
I)ost. The device shown upon the right of the figure will be 
described in the section treating of regulation of currents. 
The lever shown upon the left of the machine is for the 
purpose of shifting the driving-belt from the tight to loose 
pulley, or the reverse, in obvious manner. 

The front of this machine carries an arrangement for 
preventing the change of polarity in cases when in galvano- 
plastic work polarization of the solution takes place. This 
will be described in a subsequent section. The following 
table shows the sizes and efficiencies of the machines man- 
ufactured of this class. Large numbers of them are in use 
in the United States, some having been in constant use for 
over five years with great satisfaction. 





WEIGHT. 


Deposition Electrotypino. 
OF Silver A Good Shell 
PER Hour. Obtained in 3 houro. 


Power Coksuved. 


PRICE. 


No.l.... 
" 3.... 


90O pounds. 
600 " 
1800 '' 


85 oances. | 10 sqoare feet. 
75 " i 30 '» 
285 '» 100 " 


1-8 Horse-power. 
1 " " 
8 •' " 


$812 50 
425 00 
TTS 00 



The large machines do not have the attached counter- 
shaft and pulleys. One is shown in Fig. 90. All of the 
machines have a resistance wire connecting the extreme 
ends of the field-magnet coils, for the purpose of adjusting 
the intensity of the magnetic field. In the manufacture of 
the machines, more convolutions of the copper plates on the 
field magnets are made than are necessary for the desired 
strength of magnetism, and then under a running test this 
resistance helix (shown on the front of the machine, Fig. 
91, just at the top of the stand) is attached. The resistance 
of the helix is made of such value that just enough current 
flows through it, instead of through the field-magnet coils. 



164 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

to obtain the proper reduction of magnetism. This is done 
as the easiest way of compensating for the varying qualities 
of iron used in the magnet cores. 

4r2m AVeston's T>yiiamo-Electric 3J[a- 
chine ior Gralvanoplastic Pixrposes is 

represented by Figs. 92 and 93. Fig. 92 shows the machine 
in perspective, and Fig. 93 opened, to illustrate the con- 

Fio.93. 




Wtrstoft's Machine. 



nections and internal arrangements. To the iron drum six 
cast-iron electro-magnets, B, are fastened by means of 
screws. Sometimes these magnets are made hollow, so 
that water may be conducted through them for the purpose 
of cooling. 

Upon one side of these magnet cores, and enclosed by 
the coils, are placed permanently magnetized steel plates, 
which serve to keep up the magnetization, so that they may 
not easily be demagnetized by return currents due to polar- 
ization of the electrolyte. The wires forming the coils of 
these magnet-cores are connected together at one end, so as 
to form three derived circuits that follow the several mag- 



BT^STAHO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



165 



net poles in such a way that the ends pointing to the 
common centre mre polarized alternately, that is to say, that 
each pole has upon either side poles of unlike name. 



Fig. 96. 





Diagram of H'ts/on^s Machifu. 

After the same plan, the six smaller electro-magnets, AB, 
Fig. 93a, have wire coiled about them parallel with the axis of 
rotation, in such a manner that if a current be passed through 
the coils the six arms will be magnetized in alternately 
opposite manner. This is the armature, and the faces A of 




ll\s{ons Armature. 



it form the poles ; and when the armature is rotated, they 
receive magnetisnj consecutively of opposite name six times 
in each rotation of the axis. Consequently, the wire coils 



166 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

of the electro-magnetSy AB, will have currents induced in 
them in different directions, but since the wires branch be- 
tween them, the currents meet at this junction and take one 
direction. We may therefore consider each two connected 
electro-magnets as a single horseshoe magnet, and say that 
the three wires of such a compound magnet have currents 
passing through them in the same direction. This direc- 
tion changes six times with each rotation of the shaft, so 
that the currents produced are alternating ones, which are 
diverted into uniform direction by means of the commuta- 
tor shown at F in Fig. 92, and at C, Fig. 93a. 

The part C is insulated from the shaft and from the 
other parts, except one set of ends of the coils of the arma- 
ture. It resembles a broad-faced cog-wheel with three cogs 
only. The second part is so made that its arms nearly 
fill the spaces between the cogs of the first, and it is con- 
nected with the other ends of the coils of the armature. 
These two parts are well insulated from each other. 
Brushes, I, Fig. 92, bear upon the commutator at diametri- 
cally opposite points, so that during rotation each presses 
upon one or the other of the divisions. They are so placed 
in relation to the commutator that at the moment of change 
of direction of the current during rotation, one part of the 
commutator passes from under the brush which was bear- 
ing upon it^and the other part passes into contact. Thus 
it is the currents having alternating direction are turned 
into one direction. 

The dynamo-electric principle is carried out by connect- 
ing one brush with one end of the conductor passing 
aroimd the cores of the electro-magnets, while the other 
end of the conductor is connected by means of a binding- 
screw with the external circuit, and this again with the 
second brush through the other binding-screw. In this way 
the current produced in the armature passes through the 
conductor, thereby magnetizing the electro-magnets B,, 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 167 

then through the external circuit (say an electro-plating 
bath) to the second brush, and through it and the commuta- 
tor back to the coils of the armature. 

In constructing this machine, the magnet-poles are made 
to pass as closely to each other as possible without contact. 
The armature electro-magnets are made of the finest and 
softest iron, so that they may readily and rapidly change 
their polarity. 

This machine is built for galvanoplastic purposes, but 
without a safety-switch is not adapted to the work, by rea- 
son of the liability to change of polarity and direction of the 
current by a return current from electrolytes which become 
I)olarized during electrolysis, when the machine decreases 
in speed below a certain point. To prevent this taking 
place, Weston devised some ingenious contrivances, one of 
which is shown at B, Fig. 92, which will be considered in 
"Vol. II. One advantage of this machine is that the parts 
subject to wear in all machines of like size are made inter- 
changeable, so that such parts can be replaced at short 
notice. 

It is claimed for this machine, that while it has only 
half the size and weight of other apparatus intended for the 
same purpose, it produces fully as powerful effects, even 
with a low number of rotations per minute (450 to 800). 

43. The I>,yiiaiiio-EIecti'ie IMa chine 
ofH. Gr. jMohring", of* Franlilor't-oii-the- 
iMCsiiii, and Grnstav Banr^^ of Stnttg-ai't* 

Special approbation is due to the manufacturers of this 
machine, which seems to be an excellent one in every 
respect. It is illustrated in Fig. 94, and is distinguished by 
an advantageously compact arrangement of its several 
parts. Six stationary electro-magnets H are fixed to the 
head C of the drum A by means of the screws K. The 
armature is fastened upon the shaft D so as to be rotated 



168 



DTNAMO-ELBOTRIC MACHINES. 



by it, and so that the cores of the electro-magnets G have 
the same axial line as the electro-magnets H. TTiese elec- 
tro-magnets are fastened to the cast-iron disk F. Motion 
is applied to the armature by the pulley E through the 
shaft D. The bearings for the shaft are in the heads of the 
cylinder, and the commutator M N resembles the conamuta- 
tor of the Weston machine. 

The coils of the electro-magnets G are woimd in three 
parallel circuits, or, as is sometimes expressed, in *' multi- 
ple arc,'' so that they have alternate polarity. From one of 
the brushes which press upon the commutator six wires are 
led, one to each of the coils of the electro-magnets H H, and 
the ends of these coils are either bunched together so as to 




B] 



tSFl= 



Dynamo- Electric Machine of Mokring fir* Baur. 



•conduct the combined current to one plating vat, or they 
may lead each to a separate vat. But after passing through 
the vat, the several circuits are joined together as one, and 
are electrically connected with the other brush. In this 
manner six several circuits can be supplied without weak- 
ening the main current. [This same division of the current 
tas been made by Weston in one of his electric light ma- 
.chines. — K.] 



DYNAMO-ELECTEIC MACHINES. 



169 



By means of the adjusting-screw p and its attachments, 
the shaft D can be moved to or fro in the direction of its 
length, so as to change the distance between the poles of the 
electro-magnets Q and H, to enable the strength of the cur- 
rent to be changed by reason of the varied inductive effects 
due to the change of distance of the parts of the inducing 
apparatus. This machine can be provided with an arrange- 
ment for avoiding return currents and change of polarity. 

44r. Briish't^ T^iorht ]\i:acliii:ie. This is a 
machine in which alternate currents are produced and 
turned in one direction by means of a commutator. Some 
physicists consider this apparatus as a modification of the 
Gramme machine. 

[This is a Gramme machine in the sense that it follows 
the directions given by Gramme for winding an annular 

Fio.95. 




Annular Cert of Brush Machine wWk&mi Ut BMint, 



armature, so as to give rise to alternate currents. Ordina- 
rily the Ghramme machine is only considered as having an 
8 



170 



PYNAMO-ELECTBIO MACHINES. 

Pio 9^ 




Brush Dynamo Machitu, 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



171 



armature made up of a core of uniform cross-sections and 
bobbins of wire which cover completely this core. The 
-core of the Brush armature resembles that of the Pacinotti 



Fig. 97. 




Armature of the Brush Machine, 



xnachine, but the winding and electrical connections are 
different. So in speaking of the Chramme machine, that one 



172 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fig 9fl. 



1 






1 



- 



^\ 



\ 



/ 



Section of the Armature 
of the Brush Mackint, 



is meant which is generally recognized by that name, and 
is illustrated so fully in Part V.— K.] 

The armature of the Brush machine reminds one of the 
construction of the Gramme ring, but dif- 
fers from it in essential points, as well 
as in its association with an ingeniously 
contrived commutator. The fact that the 
current generated is alternate in direc- 
tion, and is turned in one direction by 
means of the commutator, justifies the 
consideration of it in this place. Its sim- 
ilarity to the Oramme machine consists 
in the shape of the annular armature, but 
it differs in the arrangement of the wire 
convolutions and in the connections of 
the various divisions among themselves. 
The annular core of the Gramme arma- 
ture is entirely covered by its bobbins, which are electri- 
cally connected with one another so as to form one closed 
circuit. In the Brush machine the bobbins are separated 
by comparatively large sections of the core, which at those 
points are thickened purposely. Consequently when the 
armature is rotated the bobbins are passed by the poles of 
the field-magnet alternately with the iron sectors which, 
by reason of their large cross-section, are brought as nearly 
as possible to the poles. 

Furthermore, neighboring bobbins are not connected, 
but diametrically opposite ones are, so that currents gen- 
erated in a pair of bobbins so connected do not necessarily 
flow in the other pairs. The construction of the annular 
core is seen in Figs. 95 and 97. It is provided with deep 
channels which prevent the generation of induced currents 
in the iron, and which also provide for ventilation in cool- 
ing by the currents of air produced by the rotation. 

Besides these channels there is provided a number^ usu- 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 



17? 



ally eighty of rectangular depreBBions into which the in^ 
sulated copper wire-bobbins are wound. These bobbins 
completely fill the depressions, and the wires are all wound 
in one direction. 



Fio. flO. 



Fm 98a. 





Th4 8 BobMiu on tkt Cort. 

The inner end of the wire of each bobbin is connected 
with the like end of its diametrically opposite bobbin (see 
Figs. 97, 99 and 99a)9 and the outer ends of all the bobbins 
are led through the hollow shaft of the machine to the com^ 
mutator. This is materially different from that used with 
any other dynamo. It is made up, really, of as many sep' 

Fis.lOO. 




Commutator Ring of Bruth Machine. 



arate commutators as there are pairs of bobbins. The ma^ 
chines usually made have each four pairs of bobbins, and 



174 



DYKAMO-BLEGTBIC MACHINES. 



their joined commutator has four insulated copper rings, 
I, II, III, IV, fastened upon the shaft in two pairs (I, II), 
(III, IV), which are in turn served by two brushes to each 
pair of rings. Each ring is cut into four parts, 1, 1', 2, 2' 
(Fig. 100). The parts 1, 1', each occupy |, and the parts 2, 2', 
each i of the entire circumference. Between them is a 
space of i centimetre width, 

[The members of each pair are interlocked, so that to 
the left of the central line the parts 1, 1', occupy | of the 
circumference ; but dividing these parts are two projec- 
tions, 2, 2'y from the right of the central line, which occupy 
each i of the circumference. At the right of the central 



Fio. 101. 




Diagram of Bru^ Commutator, 



line the reverse is the case : — ^2, 2', occupy | of the circi]B> 
ference, and 1, 1', |, in four alternate divisions. — ^K.] 



DYNAHO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



175 



The outer ends of the wire of a pair of bobbins are con- 
nected to the two larger divisions of each ring, and to each 
pair of rings belong two pairs of bobbins which are at right 
angles to each other on the annular core. By this arrange- 
ment all the pairs of bobbins are never in circuit at once ; 
that pair which at the moment is passing through the 
neutral zone of the machine being excluded. 

Fig. 101 shows in diagram how this is attained. The 
copper rings are supposed to be extended in a plane, but in 
correct relative position, and the separate parts are desig- 
nated by the letters and numbers before given. Two verti- 
cal lines, a 6, a' 6', are drawn so as to cut the copper rings at 
two diametrically opposite points, and exhibit spaces which 
pass simultaneously under the brushes A B C D. In the 
diagram the circuit can be easily followed for every desired 
position of the commutator. It will be seen that 3 pairs of 
bobbins are always in the circuit, and those in diametrical 
position (1, 2) adjoin. Fig. 102 is a diagram of the circuit 
at the moment when the lines ah a' V pass 
the brushes. The pair 4 is out of the circuit, 
1 and 2 are interposed between A and B, and 
3 between and D. With every rotation of 
the armature each pair of bobbins passes in 
and out of the circuit twice. The two dia- 
grams show the field electro-magnets in a 
shunt circuit. This is a very favorable ar- 
rangement for incandescent lighting. 

[These diagrams also illustrate the so- 
called " Teaser" circuit. This is a circuit of 
fine wire of considerable length and high 
resistance, which Mr. Brush provides for the 
purpose of insuring sufficient initial mag- 
netism of the field magnets which it surrounds. It is 
wound on the magnet cores underneath the coarser wire, 
and is in constant closed circuit, whether the external cir- 



FiG. Ktt. 
Field Magnet. 




Diagram of Circuit, 



176 



DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



cuit be closed or not. The current which flows through it 
does not flow in the external circuit. It does not have the 
resistance nor length of the recent shunt-wound dynamos^ 
which will be considered elsewhere. — K.]. 



Fio. 10& 




Diagram of Complete Brush Machine. 



Fig. 103 is an illustration of the entire circuit of a ma- 
chine in which the field magnets are in the main circuit. 
At the moment the pairs 2 and 4 of bobbins are interposed 



DYNAMO-ELBCTKIC MACHINES. 177 

in parallel arc, the pair 1 is passing the neutral zone and is 
out of circuit [and 3 is in series with the joined 2 and 4. 
— K.]. In order to make the relative contacts of the 
brushes with the commutator very plain, the field-magnets 
N and S are only indicated, and the commutator is out of 
its true position, 30 degrees from right to left. By the con- 
struction of the commutator these ends are attained : — The 
pair of bobbins passing the point of greatest induction 
passes its current directly into the circuit, while the two 
pairs which are about to enter or leave the next favorable 
position are interposed in parallel arc, by reason of their 
parts of the commutator being in contact with the eame 
pair of brushes. 

The magnetic field is produced by two flat electro-mag- 
nets, which have their like poles turned towards each other 
(as in Figs. 105 and 106), the north poles at one side and the 
south poles at the other. The ends of the poles are each pro- 
vided with iron extension-plates, which enlarge the pole- 
faces so that they at all times cover six bobbins, and one pair 
of bobbins is uncovered at the most favorable position for 
change of its magnetism and direction of induced current. ' 

From this description it is clear that the four pairs of 
bobbins of the Brush Machine really constitute four ma- 
chines, each yielding alternate currents, at one time 
positive by entering a north magnetic field from a south 
magnetic field, and next negative by leaving and entering 
the magnetic fields in reverse order. These alternating cur- 
rents are, by means of the commutator, transformed to 
intermittent currents having one direction. These four 
machines are united as two pairs by the brushes which 
press simultaneously on two commutator rings. These 
paired machines are finally connected in series by properly 
connecting the brushes. [Furthermore, the inembers of 
each pair of the series are put out of circuit, one at a time, 
in the following order, 1, 3, 2, 4.— K.] Brush also makes 



178 



DYNAMO-ELKCTRIC MACHINES. 



Fie. 104. 




large machines with six pairs of bobbins and three pairs of 
brushes. The arrangement is analogous to the one just 
describee^. The pairs at right angles to each other are 
served by the same pair of brushes, and the three pairs of 
brushes are connected in series. The pair of bobbins mov- 
ing horizontally is out of circuit. 

Sometimes, in case of the former machines, the cononu- 
tator is divided into three parts. The two longer each 

occupy I of the circumference, the 
shorter part i, and the remaining J 
is insulation. (See Fig. 104.) 

[The further description of the 
circuit of this machine given by Dr. 
Schellen is the same as that given 
in EngineerinQy which we herein- 
after copy. — K.] 

It has been and is still wrongly 

stated in many places that the 

Brush machine has two separate 

circuits: one to excite the field electro-magnets,* and the 

other to supply the external circuit. The Brush Company 

has not corrected this error. 

The Brush machines are simply built and are cheap to 
maintain. All parts are easily accessible, so that repairs 
are easily made. Consequently, they have wide distribu- 
tion in America, and of late in England. They have 
received much attention because they are capable of pro- 
ducing currents of such high tension that 20 to 40 lamps can 
be placed in one circuit [Sixty-five-light machines have 
been put into practical use ; though the intensity of current 
has been made less, so that the candle-power of each light 
is 1200 nominal in place of 2000 nominal before.— K.] 

The machines for 40 lamps give currents of 2000 volts. 
But this is regarded as a disadvantage on account of the 
danger to life in manipulating electricity of so high tension. 



Th4 Three-Part Commutai^, 



DTiHAJIO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



179 



The following table is a record of measurements made of 
a Brush IG-light machine : 

Resistance oi machine .between binding-posts. 10.55 ohms. 

*' " externa] circuit 72.96 *' 

" IGligittfi '* 70.86 " 

Tension at binding-posts. 889.02 volts. 

.Strength of current 10.04 amperes. 

Power for driving machine 15.48 h. p. 

" absorbed in producing current 18.78 ** 

Energy of current produced IIJ^ ** 

in external circuit 87.86% 

* " *• 16 arc lights 84.00% 

Proportion of energy of current to energy of power applied 72.1 

*• *• power applied to produce 

electrical energy simply 81.8 

In the 16 lights there appeared of the total power applied 61.24% 

*' " *' " *• ** electrical power ap- 
plied to the machine 68.79% 

The above measurements show the great value of the 
Brush machine ; but they were made three years ago, and 
since that time great improvements have been made. It is 

Fib. lOK. 




Brush Machine and Commutators, 



1k) be deplored that more such measurements have not been 
made, as it is by these alone the value of a machine can be 
determined. The solid construction and great eflBciency of 
these machines are generally praised ; but the penetrating 



180 



DYKAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fig. 106. 




-"H 



Brush Machine, 



noise which they make, by reason of the rapid rotation of 
the armature containing the deep chamnels, is often com- 
plained oiy and makes the ma- 
chine almost unendurable in 
inhabited places. 

Much of this noise is due to 
the intermittent and rapidly 
successive magnetizations and 
partial demagnetizations of 
the massive sectors of the iron 
core. The changes in mag- 
netic condition are not con- 
tinuously progressive, as is the 
case in a core having uniform 
cross-section like that of the Gramme and Siemens ma- 
chines, consequently the changes produce noisy vibrations 
of the iron-molecules. 

[A description of the Brush machine, first published in 
Engineering, is here given, because it receives the endorse- 
ment of the Brush Electric Co., and is somewhat different 
from Dr. Schellen's description : 

"The Brush machine, a general view of which is given 
in Fig. 96, possesses some points of resemblance to the 
dynamo-electric machine of Gramme. 

"Its point of resemblance to M. Gramme's machine con- 
sists in the fact that its armature is of annular shape. The 
Brush armature differs, however, from the Gramme ring in 
the arrangement and disposition of the helices of wire with 
which it is wound, as well as in the way in which the sev- 
eral coils are connected with one another. In the Gramme 
armature the coils are wound contiguously to one another, 
so as entirely to envelop the iron core, hiding it completely 
from view, and they are permanently connected to one 
another in consecutive series. In the Brush armature, the 
diametrically opposite bobbins are alone permanently con- 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 181 

nected together, and a current generated in one pair of 
bobbins does not necessarily traverse all the others, and in 
fact never does, as will be pointed out in the course of this 
notice. Again, the individual coils are separated from one 
another by a considerable sector of the iron ring, which is 
of larger sectional area between the coils (see Fig. 97), so 
that in the revolution of the armature within the magnetic 
field the coils alternate with masses of iron which from 
their enlarged section are brought into as close proximity 
to the poles of the field magnets as are the outsides of the 
coils themselves. It is this difference from the Gramme 
ring which constitutes the similarity between the Brush 
armature and that of M. de Meritens, but the Brush machine 
differs in all other essential respects from the latter machine 
in the disposition of its coils, in its method of connection, 
in the method and arrangement of the magnetic field, and 
in the continuous nature of its current. 

" The Brush machine, however, differs from the Gramme 
generator in the disposition of its field magnets and the 
relative positions of the revolving helices and the magnetic 
field. 

" The most characteristic feature of the Brush machine 
lies in the form and construction of its armature, which 
consists of a cast-iron ring, the cross-section of which is 
generally rectangular, but in the direction of its circumfer- 
ence it is alternately wide and narrow, as shown in the 
sketch, Fig. 95, which represents a portion of the iron arma- 
ture-ring, and explains its construction better than can be 
given by description. On reference to this figure it will be 
seen that the ring is divided up into as many sectors as 
there are bobbins to be wound, by a number of rectangular 
depressions or grooves ; in these the coils of insulated cop- 
per wire are wound until the groove is filled up and the fiat 
converging recesses become flush with the face of the inter- 
mediate thicker portions or pole-pieces by which they are 



I 



182 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

separated from one another. Fig. 98 is a cross-section of 
one side of the ring taken through one of these portions, 
and it will be observed, on reference to both figures, that 
the intermediate thicker portions of the ring are grooved 
out by a series of deep concentric grooves, the object of 
which is partly to reduce the mass and lessen the weight of 
the revolving armature, partly for the purpose of ventilating 
the ring and thus carrying away a portion of the heat gen- 
erated by the working of the machine, but chiefly for the 
localization and isolation of local currents generated by in- 
duction in the iron, and which would tend not only to reduce | 
the efficiency of the machine by diminishing the magnetic i 
capacity of the armature, but also to produce a heating of 
the ring and therefore of the coils, whereby a portion of the 
current would be lost through their resistance being in- 
creased. For a similar reason the periphery of the ring is 
grooved out deeply, so as almost to sever the ring ; by this 
means all cross-currents are effectually cut off, and induc- 
tion currents are compelled to flow in directions which are 
not detrimental to the efficiency of the machine. This 
again increases the area of radiating or cooling surface, and 
consequently helps to prevent the armature becoming over- 
heated. 

'* In what is called the sixteen-light machine, which may 
be regarded as the normal size of the Brush generator, the 
armature ring is 20 inches in diameter, and it is wound 
with eight radial coils of cotton-covered copper wire of No. 
14 B. W. G., whose middle planes radiate from the axis of 
rotation, being distributed round the ring at equal angular 
distances apart of 45 deg. Each coil contains about 900 ft. 
of wire, weighing about twenty pounds, and is wound in 
the rectangular grooves or spaces shown in Fig. 95, filling 
up the space completely, so that the vertical faces of all the 
coils are fiush with the vertical faces of the thicker portions 
of the iron ring. Fig. 106 is a sketch of the armature ring 



UNTVER?^TTY 
DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 183 

ivith all its coils wound, which must be looked upon rather 
as an explanatory diagram than as an illustration of the 
proportions of this part of the apparatus. The two sides of 
each groove, and therefore of each coil of wire, are parallel 
to the center-line or radial plane of the coil, and by the 
adoption of that form of bobbin one of the practical difficul- 
ties in the winding of annular armatures of the ordinary 
form is avoided. All the coils are, like those in the Gramme 
machine, wound in the same direction. 

" Fig. 99 is a diagram illustrative, not only of the distri- 
bution of the coils around the ring, but of the method by 
which the connections are made ; the inner end of each of 
the coils is connected by a wire to the inner end of the cor- 
responding coil, at the opposite end of the same diameter 
of the ring, and the outer ends of all tho coils are brought 
through the shaft of the machine, and are connected to cor- 
responding portions of the commutator, where the currents 
are collected by suitably placed copper plates or brushes. 
Referring to the diagram, it will be seen that the inner end 
A* of the coil 1 is connected to A', which is the inner end of 
the coil 5 ; A' is connected to A*, A^ to A', and so on round 
the ring, and the outer ends, BS B^, B', etc., are all connect- 
ed to the commutator by conducting wires insulated from 
one another. The two free ends of each pair of diametri- 
cally opposed coils are, after passing through the shaft of 
the machine, attached respectively to two diametrically 
•opposite segments of the same commutator, which segments 
are insulated from one another and from any other pairs of 
•coils. The commutator, which is attached to and rotates 
with the driving-shaft of the machine, consists of a set of 
separate copper rings or flat cylinders, of which there are 
as many on the shaft as there are pairs of coils on the arma- 
ture, and each of these cylinders consists of two segments 
insulated from one another on one side of the shaft by a 
Bmall air-space about one-eighth of an inch wide, and on 



184 BrNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 

the other by a piece of copper separated from the segments 
by two smaller air-spaces. The arrangement is shown in 
Fig. 104, in which A and B are the two segments connected 
respectively to corresponding coils on opposite sides of the 
armature, and attached by an insulating material to the 
shaft S ; C is the copper insulating piece, the object of 
which is to separate either of the flat copper brushes or 
collectors, which press upon the periphery of the commuta- 
tor, from either of the segments during the interval occu- 
pied by one pair of coils passing the vertical, or in other 
words through the neutral pqrtion of the magnetic field ; 
this occurs twice in each revolution of the armature, and 
therefore of the commutator. At the time when any pair 
of bobbins is in this way cut out of the general circuit, their 
own circuit is open, so that no current can circulate or be 
induced in them. By this most ingenious arrangement, 
each pair of coils has in succession in each revolution a 
period of rest equal 'to one-quarter of a revolution, and has 
a current passing through it for only 75 per cent, of the time 
the machine is running ; to it is, in a great measure, due 
the very small development of heat in the working of the 
Brush machine, and it presents also another important 
element of efficiency to the machine, namely, that each 
pair of bobbins as it passes the neutral portion of the 
magnetic field, and is therefore incapable of doing work 
and contributing electromotive force to the general cur- 
rent, is itself cut out of the circuit, and thus two causes 
operating against the efficiency of the machine are elimi- 
nated ; the first is one common to most armatures which 
have, like that in the Gramme machine, a permanently- 
closed circuit, namely, that the currents generated in the 
bobbins have two routes open to them, the one through the 
conductors and commutators to the brushes, and the other 
through the idle bobbins, and thus by a species of short cir- 
cuiting robbing the external circuit of some of its current. 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 185 

The other cause of inefficiency which is avoided in the 
Brush machine is the reduction of its internal resistance hy 
an amount equal to the resistance of two of the bobbins, for 
just as a certain amount of resistance is an item of efficiency 
when belonging to coils which are doing work and contrib- 
uting electromotive force to the general current, so does it- 
become an element of inefficiency when belonging to coils 
which are idle, for in that case it diminishes the current 
supplied by the active coils while at the same time contrib- 
uting no current of its own in compensation. By the 
arrangement of commutator referred to above, Mr. Brush 
has, therefore, got rid of ibwo considerable drawbacks to the 
efficiency of the machine. 

" What is, however, one of the important features of the 
Brush machine is the arrangement of the magnets by which 
the magnetic field is produced, and by which the armature 
coils are during their revolution almost continually passing 
through a very intense magnetic field. Upon reference to 
Fig. 96, it will be seen that the armature ring is closely em- 
braced on each side by the large horizontal electro-magnets 
whose poles are expanded so as to be presented to three of 
the armature coils on each side, leaving one pair of coils 
free from their direct influence, and this is the pair which 
is passing through the neutral region of the magnetic field. 
For the sake of illustration, the disposition of the magnets 
towards the armature and towards one another may be 
described as two horseshoe electro-magnets placed opposite 
one another in a horizontal position, their similar poles 
being presented towards one another, and having a small 
space between them in which rotates the armature ring. 
This space in the machines we are describing is, however, 
so nearly equal to the thickness of the armature that there 
is hardly any clearance between them, the high-class work- 
manship of the apparatus allowing such close working v/ith 
perfect safety. 



186 DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

"Fig. 105 is a diagram illustrating the connection be- 
tween the armature bobbins and the magnet coils at the 
time when the commutators are placing them in the same 
circuit. Referring to this diagram, M M and M M are the 
two magnets haviqg their similar poles presented towards 
one another on opposite sides of the armature coils A A^. 
Thus the coil A is under the influence of a magnetic field 
produced by the two north poles If N^ while at the same 
time its corresponding bobbin A^ is under the influence of 
the two south poles S SK A current is therefore induced in 
the pair of bobbins A A^ which is transmitted by wires pass- 
ing through the shaft S to the commutator C^ C, whence it 
is collected by the brushes B^ and B*, and by them transmit- 
ted to the magnet coils, which are all connected together in 
series, and at the same time the other portions of the com- 
mutators (which are in connection with the other working 
armature bobbins) are in contact with the brushes B' and 
B* by which they are placed into the external circuit of the 
machine. 

'* One of the most original and interesting features of the 
Brush machine is the commutating apparatus, which, by 
the simplest of mechanical means, collects and distributes 
the currents from the active armature coils, and cutting out 
of circuit the armature coils one by one as they pass through 
the neutral regions between the poles. The whole commu- 
tating apparatus is fairly represented on the extreme right 
of the general view of the machine, and consists of two 
pairs of rings of the form shown in Fig. 104, attached to and 
revolving with the main shaft, and therefore their position 
is fixed with respect to the revolving armature of the ma- 
chine. On to the cylindrical circumferences of these rings 
are pressed two pairs of copper-collecting brushes, which 
rub tangentially against the commutator rings, one pair 
pressing above and the other pair pressing below, a line 
forming the points of contact being a diameter of the ring. 



DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC JUJLCWIKKS. 1ST 

The copper "brushes," as they are called, are flat strips of 
elastic copper about 2 in. wide, cut at the ends which press 
against the rings into eight tongues,, so as somewhat to 
resemble a grainer's comb, and each comb or brush is wide 
enough to cover or be in contact with two armature rings,. 
and in this way, although two of the coils are insulated 
twice in each revolution, the main circuit is never inter- 
rupted. The disposition of the brushes with respect to the 
commutators will clearly be understood by comparing 
Fig. 96. 

" For the sake of adjusting the brushes so as to make 
contact with the commutators at the most effective angular 
position with respect to the magnetic field, they are mount- 
ed to the opposite ends of two rocking levers, which are 
capable of oscillating on the driving-shaft and can be fixed 
in any desired position by means of a set-screw, which 
clamps a stout wire rising from the base of the machine. 
The currents are conveyed from the brushes by wide strips 
of thin sheet copper, shown in the general view, and in 
order to allow for the variable distance of the free ends of 
the brushes from the base of the machine they are made 
undulating or wavy, doubling up as the distance is short- 
ened and stretching out when it is increased. 

" The average total resistance of the sixteen-light ma- 
chines as now constructed is about eleven ohms, to which 
the eight coils of the armature contribute about five ohms, 
that is, .625 ohm each, and the magnet coils about six ohms, 
or 1.6 ohms for each helix — ^the resistance of the connec- 
tions, conductors, contacts, etc., within the machine being 
inconsiderable. " 

[Mr. Brush has recently made a new armature-core, 
which is illustrated by Fig. 106a, on page 188. In order to 
avoid to a greater degree than before the production of 
Foucault currents in the core, he now constructs it of insu- 
lated layers of sheet iron. The iron ring A has f oxir luga 



188 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



upon it, as shown at a. These lugs have each two holes to 
receive bolts by which to fasten it to a spider which is 
keyed to the shaft. The ends of the arms of the spider rest 
against the inner periphery of the ring, and the bolts pass 
through their sides. The core consists of sheet iron, the 

Fio. 106a. 




Brush's New AnntUure. 



successive layers of which are separated by an insulating 
material like press-board, or vulcanized fibre. There are 
twelve bobbins in six pairs. This armature gives much 
better results from the power expended than the previous 
one does, and all the machines now made by the Brush 
Electric Co. have it. — K.] 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 189 

4:S* rFhe rFhomsoii Sp]iei:*iea.l-A.i*iiia.- 
-tixre Oynamo-Electrlc IVfa^eliiiie is the one 

used in the Thomson-Houston System of arc lighting which 
is extensively used in the United States and Canada. The 
<5urrent furnished by this dynamo is of standard strength 
under varying conditions of resistance below the maximum 
or speed above the minimum. This result is attained by 
the use of an automatic regulator always attached to and 
forming a part of every machine, which adjusts the brushes 
to positions of varying electromotive force to suit the dif- 
ferent conditions of work. The work may range from a 
short circuit to the full number of lights the machine can 
<5arry, and the speed may vary above the normal without 
.materially affecting the current delivered to the line. 

The general method of winding the armature and means 
of regulation are the joint inventions of Profs. Elihu Thom- 
son and E. J. Houston; but the peculiar adaptation and 
arrangement of parts, the spherical armature, and me- 
chanical devices which have given the machine much of 
its reputation and success, are due to the labor and inven- 
tions of Prof. Thomson. 

The machine is made in sizes ranging from one to forty- 
five arc lights in series, giving an electromotive force of 
forty to two thousand volts at the binding-posts. It is also 
made to give any current from a fraction of an ampere to 
hundreds of amperes, according to the requirements of 
trade. 

One will find in this machine much chance for observa- 
tion and study, as the principles of electricity and mechan- 
ics are here applied in novel and particularly original 
ways. Prof. Thomson seems always to have had in view 
the production of a simple and efficient, a cheap and prac- 
tical self -regulating dynamo, suitable for the production of 
electric currents of any kind ; but particularly adapted to 
high electromotive force currents for arc lighting. How 



• 190 



DYNAMO- ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



well he has succeeded will be seen by the following de- 
scription. 

The general appearance of the complete machine i& 



Fig. 107. 




Thomson- HoHttoH Dynamo Electric Machine, 



shown in Fig. 107. The field-magnets consist of two large 
hollow castings, M M, of the form shown in Fig. 108, in 



Fie. lOB. 




Tkamum-Houtton Machine Field Magnet Cores. 



section, having flanges F F extending around one end, and 
the other being shaped to a hemispherical outline. The 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 191 

magnet coils C C are wound upon the exterior of the drum, 
and a brass flange exists at b b, to keep them in place. The 
jspace A A, between the opposed faces of the castings, is 
nearly filled by the spherical armature, the shaft of which 
occupies the central position. The large flanged portions 
of the castings at F F are united magnetically by a series 
of bars of soft iron, usually eighteen in number, and are 
firmly held in place by bolting to the side frame, B B, Fig. 
107, which also affords feet for the machine and sustains 
the shaft in its bearings. 

The relation of parts is seen in Fig. 107, where C C are 
the field-magnet coils, B B the frame on the commutator 
side, sustaining the shaft in a central bearing, while upon 
the other side of the machine is a similar, but longer bear- 
ing, and a shaft extension with the driving pulley. 

The armature, spherical in form, is nearly enclosed, and 
is seen partly at A. The commutator, and air-blast mech- 
anism therefor, occupy positions upon that portion of the 
Bhaft outside the bearing. The wires, three in number, 
from the armature helices, are brought out through the 
hollow shaft and connected to the conmiutator at the end 
of the shaft. It will thus be seen that the field-magnet 
ooils which are put into the direct circuit of the machine, 
surround not only the iron of the magnets within them, but 
also the armature core and its bobbins. The armature core 
is thus polarized directly by the field-coils, and in the same 
-sense as is the field-magnet itself. The wire of the field- 
coils being traversed by currents in the same direction 
in both coils, form virtually a single coil, in the middle of 
which the armature revolves. The soft-iron bars complete 
the magnetic circuit. 

The arrangement of the field-magnets is calculated to 
produce a most intense field wherein the armature turns, 
and prevents to a large extent outward diffusion of mag« 
netism. 



192 



DTNAMO-RLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



The armature core consists of an iron shell having the 
form of an oblate spheroid mounted centrally upon the 
shaft) as seen in Fig. 109 ; the shaft, H H, passing through 



Fio. 100. 




Thomson' Hamsion Arma/urt Coro, 



the axis of the spheroid. The polar portions are formed of 
two thin iron castings, placed as shown at Q G, and keyed 
firmly to the shaft. Between these flanges and supported 
by them, but insulated therefrom, are a series of cast-iron 
bridges D, generally twelve in number, and placed at equal 
distances apart. The bridges are formed with feet that 
enter corresponding grooves in the internal faces of the 
flanges. Outside the bridges is wound a quantity of well- 
annealed soft-iron wire I, scaled by heat and shellacked. 
The depth of the wire varies with the capacity of the ma- 
chine, and when all on, completes the form of the spheroidal 
armature. The core is covered with several layers of insu- 
lating paper, and then is wound with insulated wire of cop- 
per. To facilitate this winding twelve hard-wood pins P P, 
six in each flange, are carried by being inserted into open- 
ings in the flanges near their periphery. They are so set 
as to give spaces, six in number, around the circumference 
of the core to receive the wire. There are six other pins, 
P', similarly set around the extreme periphery of the wire 
core. 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



193 



The core so formed is wound with three helices crossing 
one another at the polar portions, and being divided cen- 
trally by the shaft in its passage through the core. To 
secure mechanical and electrical equality of the three coils, 
or helices, the following procedure is adopted : 

The first half of the first coil is wound. 

The first half of the second coil is next wound. 

The whole of the third coil is then woimd. 

The second half of the second coil is then wound. 

Finally the second half of the first coil finishes the wind- 
ing, and produces an approximately spherical outline. See 
Fig. 110. 

Pig. no. 




b b 
ThoMUon^HousUm Armature, 



The coils are thoroughly insulated and are interwoven 
with tapes wherever necessary to keep them in place. 
Finally a strong brass-wire binding is applied, consisting 
of two central bands, h 6, and two lateral bands, d d, wound 
around the armature circumf erentially. 

The three ends from the inner layers of the coils are 
joined together permanently at a, while the three outer 
ends, /, are carried through the shaft to the commutator. 
By this winding the highest diflPerences of electric potential 
are found only upon the outside wires, the result being 
greatly in favor of retention of insulation imder all condi- 
tions. The position of the coils upon the armature is such 
9 



194 



DTNAHO-ELEOTBIC MACHINES. 



that they follow each other in similar electrical sequence at 
120° of a revolution apart ; an arrangement which gives, 
with the small nmnber of generating helices, an approxi- 
mate continuity of effect. The three free ends are carried 
out through the shaft and kept well insulated while pass- 
ing.to their connections at the commutator near the end of 
the shaft. 

The commutator consists of a copper ring, slit into three 
segments of 120° each, nearly. These segments are inde- 
pendently mounted upon a metal frame which gives the 
segment its position. The three metal frames, G G G, 
Figs. Ill and 112, for the support of the segments, are 

Fig. 111. 



^u 




\ 


/^^E 




1 


s^^p 


K 


i 


»i^4-t^ 




G 


"S 




3 



Thornton- Houston Commutator, 



mounted in two metal flanges J J, but thoroughly insulated 
from them. The flanges J J are themselves borne upon the 
shaft and covered with a layer of vulcanite. The seg- 
ments are readily detachable by removal of screws passing 
through lateral ears extending from each side of a seg- 
ment, K. 

The wires from the shaft connect to each framework 
G G G respectively, and consequently there is one wire 
electrically connected to each segment. 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



195 



The mounting of the segments provides a free air space 
all around them, greatly conducive to preservation of insu- 
lation, and nowhere does any 
metal lie so near to the seg- ^°' "*' 

ments as to permit leaks over 
its surface. 

Fig. 114 shows diagram- 
matically the winding of the 
armature, and also the man- 
ner of applying the brushes 
to conduct the current to the 
circuit. There are usually 
two pairs of brushes, formed 
of comb-like copper springs, 
the brushes of each pair be- 
ing diametrically opposite, 

and the two brushes that are positive or negative set so as 
to bear upon the conmiutator at points about 60"" apart, as 
shown. 

The figure also shows at C C the relation of the field- 
coils to the rest of the circuit, L L L. 




Thomson-Houston Commutator. 



Fig. 118 




Thomsom- Houston Brush-Holder Yokes, 



The commutator brushes are, however, made movable, 
those diametrically opposite being mounted upon yokes in 



196 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



insulated holders, so as to be capable of movement around 
the commutator shaft. The purpose of this arrangement is 
to permit the automatic setting of the bushes to maintain a 







I 

I 

I 



standard current irrespective of changes of speed and of 
resistance in the circuit. 

The brush-holder yokes are connected to a lever and 
connecting rods, L, Fig. 113, so that the brushes R R re- 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



197 



ceive a movement backwards 3^ times as great as that im- 
parted to S S forwards during regulation. This movement 
is effected by an attachment, to the connecting arm A, from 
the motor-magnet lever N, Fig. 115. 



Fie. 115. 




Thomson- Houston Motor-Magnti and Lever. 



The motor-regulator magnet is constructed of a stout U- 
Bhaped iron frame, to the centre of which is bolted a bar of 
iron, surrounded by a magnetizing coil, K, of low resist- 
ance. The polar extremity of this bar, P, is a projection 
having an approximately paraboloidal form, and its arma- 
ture A is provided with a circular opening, the edges of 
which are rounded so as to move over the pole without con- 
tact. The armature is swung upon pivots at U, between 
the legs of the U frame. The construction is such that the 
•ends of the armature move at equal distances relatively 
from the frame at each end, leaving the pivots U without 
strain. A dash-pot D is provided to prevent too sudden 
movements. 

The attraction exerted by such a magnet when a con- 
stant current flows through its coils, is practically constant 



198 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



.IIA. 




3? 

P P2 

The Current-Conirolter Magngt^ 



in all positions of the armature within its prescribed ranger 
It is seldom, however, sufficiently sensitive to current flue- 

tuations to serve alone as a means 
of regulation. It is therefore put 
under the control of a shunting con- 
tact, operated by what is termed a 
current-controller magnet, placed in 
a case and hung vertically near the 
machine. The controller-magnet, 
Fig. 116, is constructed of two he- 
lices, C C, placed side by side and 
serving as solenoids attracting: into 
their interior a double core B, the 
parts of which are yoked together 
and suspended by an adjustable 
spring S from the support above. 
The yoke carries a silver contact- 
point on its under side, and a stationary contact point O is 
mounted immediately thereunder. When these contact 
points are touching each other they complete a shunt cir- 
cuit of practically no resistance around the coil K of the 
regulator-motor magnet (Fig. 115). 

To avoid sparks at the contacts, a permanent shunt of 
carbon coils, enclosed in glass tubes, is connected around 
the contacts. The connections are exhibited in Fig. 117, 
wherein K is the commutator, C C the magnet coils, A the 
motor-regulator, R the controller, B the contact points, E 
the carbon resistance. 

Every slight fluctuation of the line current is felt by the 
controller-magnet, and the result is that when set for nor- 
mal current a tremor of the contact surfaces is constantly 
taking place, so that the magnet A (Fig. 117) is maintained 
at such a state of excitation as will cause it to move and 
maintain the •brushes at those positions corresponding to a 
predetermined current under variations of speed and of 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



199^ 



resistance, even down to a short circuit. The regulation ia 
effected so promptly that a machine may have all its lights 



Fio. 117. 




TkomMH-Housion CompUit CircuiU 

shunted at once without damage. Unsteady power does? 
not practically injure the steadiness and uniformity of the 
lights or current. 

One of the' novel features of the machine is the air-blast 
attachment to the commutator. It was invented for the 
purpose of permitting the use of electromotive forces up to 
2000 volts and over, while a free oiling of the commutator 
surfaces is still permissible for diminishing wear ; a single 
commutator being used, and that containing but three seg- 
ments. It is based upon the discovery by Prof. Thomson 
that a strong jet of air of small amount can effectually 
break any conducting line of particles tending to bridge 
the commutator slots, and cause the local discharge termed 
"flashing." Small nozzles are mounted directly opposite 
the tips of the foremost positive and negative commutator 
brush. 

At the moment the slot in the commutator passes the 



:200 



DTNAHO-BLBCTBIO MACHINES. 



tips of the brush, a puff of air is sent through the slot and 
^ repeated at every slot. These small puffs are furnished at 
the proper instant by a small rotary, positive-blast mechan- 
ism, Fig. 118, which is mounted upon the journal-box at the 
commutator side of the machine, and within which are car- 
ried by a slotted hub H (rotated by the shaft S), a set of 
three hard-rubber wings loosely placed in the slots in the 
hub at R R R, 120° apart. 

An enclosing case of interior elliptical outline is divided 
.by the hub H into two lune or crescent-shaped chambers, 
into which the rubber wings are thrown by centrifugal 

Fig, 118. 




Thomson- Houston Rotary A ir-Blower. 



force during rotation. Inlet openings are provided at 1 1^ 
covered with fine wire gauze to exclude particles. The 
outlets are at J J, and communicate with the nozzles over 
the commutator slots. 

By this construction, when the parts are correctly set, 
six puffs of air are obtained at every rotation, three from 
each nozzle, alternating in succession from the nozzles, and 
<3orresponding to the times of passage of the commutator 
divisions or slots, past the ends of the forward brushes. 

The advantages obtained by the use of the air-blast for 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MAOHINBS. 201 

Tiigh electromotive force currents are great. It removes 
all that sensitiveness to oil which is generally present in 
such cases. The Thomson machine can be run with a 
steady stream of oil pouring upon the commutator, and 
there being no carbonizable material collecting at the com- 
mutator segments, no fear of short circuits of armature- 
coils need be apprehended from that cause. 

When used as a generator, the armature-coils succes- 
sively traverse the opposed field-spaces, and the impulses 
so produced in them find connection through the conunuta- 
tor-brushes to the circuit. 

The armature helices act for a portion of the time in 
multiple arc of two coils, as when they are traversing field- 
spaces where the impulse is considerably below the maxi- 
mum, and act alone or in series with the other coils, when 
they are producing their maximim;! impulse. These actions 
necessarily result from the three-coil or three-branched 
armature system. 

The mode of application of the brushes is such that when 
the electromotive force of one branch or coil has fallen 
below that of the branch or coil which follows it in sequence 
•during rotation, the current is transferred to the latter, and 
the former coil, although it has not yet reached neutrality, 
is instantly put by the commutator into connection with the 
opposite commutator-brushes, there to act in supplanting 
that branch which is about to leave said brushes. 

This mode of carrying oflP the currents will be understood 
by reference to Fig. 114. It possesses the apparent anoma- 
lous condition of putting a commutator-segment just before 
the coil or branch to which it is attached has reached neu- 
trality of electrical action, into momentary contact or 
electrical connection with both positive and negative 
brushes of the machine, as seen by inspecting Fig. 114. 
This condition, however, gives rise to no perceptible incon- 
venience, and this latter fact is accounted for by the power- 



202 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 

ful effect of the field-magnet helices in preserving the 
voliune and direction of the current at the instant of the 
connection just referred to. 

During regulation the positions of the brushes are so 
altered as to enlarge this period of connection, and so 
diminish the available electromotive force of the machine. 
At the same time, also, the total resistance in circuit being 
lessened by extinction of lights or removal of resistance, 
while the current strength remains constant, the energy 
represented in the main circuit falls in proportion, and the 
mechanical energy expended in^producing the current fall& 
in nearly the same proportion. Thus^ it is stated that if 
ten lights be shunted in a circuit of a twenty-five-light ma- 
chine, requiring for the full number or twenty-five lights an 
expenditure of eighteen horse-power at the driving-pulley, 
the consumption of power will fall below thirteen horse- 
power for the remaining fifteen lights. 

Speed variations are compensated for by the regulator 
controlling the brushes, as in cases of variations of resistance 
in circuit. 

The machine is also capable of forming a simple and 
efficient motor. In this case the brushes of each set, posi- 
tive and negative, may be set so as to cover a smaller angle 
than is described in the case of the machine used as a gen- 
erator. Or the commutator is constructed to have its seg-^ 
ments overlap so that each segment covers, instead of 120°, 
about 160°, in which case a single positive brush and a sin- 
gle negative only is used to connect to circuit. 

The three-branch armature-coil system embodied in the 
Thomson machine has been used by the same inventor in 
winding cylindrical and ring armatures ; and small motors 
have been made in which the armature-coils were wound as 
bobbins upon radial arms projecting from a hub upon the 
shaft. 

Being a distinct winding from that of the Granome, Sie- 



BTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 203 

^ mens, and other machines, it is manifestly capable of con- 
siderable modification in the form of armature-core used. 

Prof. Thomson states that a Thomson machine capable 
of furnishing electric energy sufficient to work thirty arc- 
lights in series, with 9.8 amperes current, and an average 
resistance of 4.5 ohms per light, has about 240 pounds of 
wire upon its armature, and 700 lbs. upon its field-magnets. 
And that an average of measurements puts its consumption 
of power at a little over 22 H. P., when thirty lights are in 
<5ircuit, or a little over .7 (seven-tenths) H. P. per light. The 
energy given out as heat and light in the arcsy exclusive of 
<;ircuits and lamp-regulating magnets, averages about .6 
H. P. The net efficiency of the nutchine is therefore ap- 
proximately 80 per cent.— K.] 



PART V. 

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC AND DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES 
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF CONTINUOUS CURRENTS. 

40. I^acinottl's Iliiig- IMEAcliiiie. We now^ 
enter upon the consideration of the latest magneto-electric 
and dynamo-electric machines, which, without a commuta* 
tor, furnish uninterruptedly, during their working, electric 
currents of one continuous direction. 

As early as 1860, Dr. Antonio Pacinotti of Florence con- 
structed for the technological cabinet of physics of the 
University of Pisa, a small model of a new electro-magnetic 
machine [motor — K.], the details of which, however, he did 
not publish until 1864 in the 19th volume (p. 378) of the Jour- 
nal of Physics an^ Chemistry, '' H Nuovo Cimento." It is 
remarkable that this volume has the year 1863 on the title- 
page, though most of the treatises contained in it bear the 
date 1864, one even having the date " Jfttono, 7 &ennaio, 
1865." The illustrations we give are true copies of Paci- 
notti's very incomplete figures, with all their imperfections 
and mistakes. 

As something new, he mentions the special shape of the 
movable electro-magnet as that of an iron ring, having the 
property of changing the position of its magnetic poles, so 
that they moved progressively around the ring, assuming 
constantly changing positions. 

This rotatable iron-ring was in the form of a cog-wheel 
(Fig. 119) with 16 cogs. This wheel was fastened to four 
arms aaa a (Fig. 120), which were securely attached to the 



CONTINUOUS CURREFT STXCBrrBTBTS. 



20S 



Fio. 119. 



axis of the machine. Upon the cogs small wooden wedges 
m m (Fig. 119) were placed, and the spaces between the 
ipvedges were filled with wire bobbins rrr (Figs. 120 and 
121). The direction of the convolutions was the same in all 
the bobbins, and the end of one bobbin 
ipv-as soldered to the beginning of the 
next, so that the entire system of six- 
teen wire coils formed one single wire 
spiral, returning to itself, or endless, 
encircling the whole ring, so to speak. 
Wires were soldered at the point of 
junction, and bent so as to lie parallel 
to the axis M M, and reach to the same 
number of brass pieces sunk in two superposed rows into a 
i^v^ooden cylinder C, and protruding a Utile on the periphery 
of the cylinder which was fastened to the axis. In Fig.. 
121 these brass pieces are drawn in dark hatching. 




FaeinoitV s Iron Ring. 



Fio. 190. 




Pacif$ottrs Rittf Machine {£rtmndpian\ 



At opposite sides of this horizontal ring, the two limbs 
A B (Figs. 120 and 121) of a strong electro-magnet were 
vertically set. The lower ends of these limbs were bound to 



206 



BTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



an iron rail F F (Fig. 121), and could be placed in greater or 
less proximity to the ring by means of the screw G. 

There were fastened in the plane of the electro-magnets, 
on two sides of the axis, two brass contact-rollers k k, the 
peripheries of which rolled on the periphery of the wooden 
wheel provided with the brass pieces, and during rotation 
came successively in electrical contact with the pieces. If, 
therefore, the clamps h K are connected with the poles of a 
galvanic battery, the current, if it enters at /i (-h), will pass 
over the right-hand clamp I to the roller fc, and through that 
brass piece of the wooden disk C which happens to be in 



Fie. ISl. 




^=Z1 



PacinoUV* Rimg Machine {gUtMUiou), 



contact with the roller, and through its connecting brass 
rod to the two wire bobbins which are soldered to that rod. 
From this point the current branches through the bobbins 
on two sides of the ring, and meet fit the diametrically 
opposite junction, travels through the connecting-rod to the 
brass piece under the other roller A;, and from there to the 
olamp v. From V the current passes to the electro-magnet 
limb A, from this to the other limb B, and finally through 
the right-hand clamp h to the negative pole of the battery. 



CONTINUOUS CUBRBNT MACHINES. 207 

Thus the current made both the ring and the electro-mag- 
net magnetic. 

In order to utilize to the fullest extent the action of the 
electro-magnet upon the magnetic ring, Pacinotti provided 
the two poles with armatures [or better, pole extensions — 
K.] of soft iron A A A B B B (Fig. 120), which, from their 
segmental form, hugged the ring as closely as possible. 
Each encircled more than one-third of the ring, 8uid for 
strength were connected by brass rails E E, E E. In Fig. 
121 these segmental armatures are omitted, so as not to 
hide the ring and it^ bobbins. 

Pacinotti correctly remarks that the iron ring must be- 
come mragnetic, because it shows its poles where the rheo- 
phores {the clamps I and V as well as the contact-rollers k k) 
are fastened. The straight line which connects these poles 
could be termed the magnetic axis ; and this could, by giv- 
ing different position to the contact-pieces which are in con- 
nection with the battery, be given any desirable transverse 
(diametrical) position to the iron ring. So he calls the iron 
ring with its coils a transversal electro-magnet. He more- 
over mentions that the current branches off in two opposite 
directions in the wire bobbins of the ring ; and that its two 
halves, becoming magnetic by the current, could be consid- 
ered as two electro-magnets whose like poles are next to 
each other. Finally, he adds expressly that in his machine 
the i)oles are situated in that diameter which connects the 
above-named rheophores, i, c, the contact-rollers k fc, with 
«ach other, hence in the plane of the two limbs A B of the 
stationary electro-magnet. All this is quite right ; if, how- 
ever, Pacinotti had constructed his machine according to 
these data, it would have been without any effect, because 
the i)oles of the rotatable ring-magnet would be in the same 
plane with those of the stationary electro-magnet, and 
hence no turning of the ring in either direction could have 
followed. 




208 DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pcuiinottiy however, remarks expressly of his machine 
that it was effective, and he makes a series of experiments 
to determine the proportion of power given by the machine 
compared with the material used in the battery. For this 
purpose the pulley Q Q (Fig. 121) was set on the axis and 
connected with sm appropriate weight, so that the latter 
just sufficed to keep the ring from rotating. 

Therefore, one can only assume that 
the confusion which is unmistakably 
present in Pacinotti's treatise, and the 
error in placing t^e contact rollers, as 
drawn, opposite to the poles of the sta- 
tionary electro-magnet, while they 
must be OC distant if the machine is 
to work its strongest, is due to the fact 
Direction o/th. Current in t^at a loug spaco of tlmc Hcs betwccu 
Ring, according to Pacifuutu thc coustructiou of tho machiuc in 
1860 and the publication of the treatise, between the years 
1863 and 1865 ; and that Pacinotti, in working out his trea- 
tise, did not proceed with sufficient care, and probably used 
old drawings which had served as sketches, and which did 
not correspond to the real construction of the machine. 

In Figs. 120 and 121, contrary to the Italian text, the 
poles of the ring-magnet are taken as 90° distant from the 
poles of the stationary electro-magnet, and are marked N S, 
which does not correspond to the position of the contact 
rollers, where they should be if the machine is to be effec- 
tive. In Padnotti^a machine these rollers, most likely, had 
the correct position opposite the poles N S, or 90° distant 
from the limbs A B of the electro-magnet. In Fig. 122 
there is also a mistake, because the arrow between S and 6 
must point towards S and not towards 6, as the words of 
Pacinotti expressly say. 

The above description of Pcicinotti's ring and its action 
relates to its application in an electro-magnetic machine.: 



CONTINUOUS CUBBENT MACHINES. 209 

but P(winotti communicated, towards the end of his trea- 
tise, exactly how, by aid of the same ring-armature, an 
electro-magnetic machine could be easily converted into a 
magneto-electric machine ; and how, by aid of a permanent 
or an electro-magnet, a continuous current flowing in one 
dii^ction could be obtained. 

As we here enter upon the field of the latest magneto- 
electric machines, and as it is undoubtedly proven that the 
right of priority in the invention and the first application 
of ring armatures rest with Pacinotti, we give the cor- 
responding extract in literal translation from the Italian 
original. 

[As a correct translation to English of the ''literal" ( ?) 
translation made by Dr. Schellen from the original Italian 
to German does not r&ad tl^e same as a correct and direct 
translation of the original Italian to English, I here give 
the article by Dr. Pacinotti in full by direct translation. 

"Il Nuovo Cimbnto. — Journal of Physics, Chemistry and 
Natural History.— Directors ; C. Matteucci, R. Piria, G. 
Meraghini. Vol. XIX. January, 1864. Published 30 
July, 1864.— Turin : G. B. Paravia & Co., Booksellers 
and Publishers. — Pisa: F. Pieraccini, Bookseller and 
Publisher." 

Page 378.— Description of a small electro-magnetic ma- 
chine of Dr. Antonio Pacinotti : 

" In 1860 I had occasion to construct, for account of the 
Museum of Technological Physics of the University of 
Pisa, a small model of an electro-magnetic machine, de- 
vised by me, and which now I decide to describe, especially 
in order to make known an electro-magnet of a particular 
kind employed in the construction of said machine, which, 
besides the novelty it presents, seems to me to be adapted 
to give greater regularity and steadiness (constancy) of ac- 



210 DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

tion in such electro-magnetic machines ; and, also, it seems 
to me, its form is convenient to collect the sum of the 
currents induced in a magneto-electric machine. 

In ordinary electro-magnets, even when a commutator 
is adapted thereto, the magnetic poles always appear in the 
same positions ; whilst availing of the commutator which 
is united to the electro-magnet that I describe, the poles 
can be made to move in the iron subjacent to the magneti- 
zation. The form of the iron of such electro-magnet is that 
of a circular ring. In order to easily understand the move- 
ment and the mode of action of the magnetizing current, 
let us suppose there be wound upon our ring of iron a cop- 
per wire covered with silk, and when the first spiral is fin- 
ished, instead of continuing the helix (elica) by going over 
that already constructed, the wire is closed, soldering to- 
gether the two ends that come near each other. In this 
manner we shall have covered the iron ring with a closed, 
isolated spiral entirely directed in one way. Now, if we 
connect the two poles of the pile (pila) with two very 
distant points of the wire of this helix, the current dividing 
(bi-parting) equally, runs through the helix on one side and 
on the other between the points of communication, and the 
directions that it (the current) takes are such that the iron 
must become magnetized, presenting the poles in that place 
where the conducting wires (reofori) are applied. The 
direct line that unites these poles may be called the mag- 
netic axis, to which we may, by changing the points in 
conununication with the pile, give any position transversal 
to the figure or ring of iron of the electro-magnet, which, 
therefore, I like to call transversal electro-magnet (electro- 
calamita transversale). The two pieces of magnet placed 
on both sides of a direct line (retta) (in our machine it is 
the diameter) that unites the conducting wires of the pile, 
can be considered as two curved electro-magnets, placed in 
contraposition, having the poles of the same name in con- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 211 

tiguity (in presenza). In order to construct on such a prin- 
ciple the electro-magnet with which I mounted the small 
electro-magnetic machine^ I took a turned iron ring, hav- 
ing, in the shape of a wheel, sixteen equal indentations, 
just as shown in Fig. 119. This ring is supported by four 
brass radii, a, a, a, a (Fig. 120), which unite it to the axis 
of the machine. Between each tooth of the small tri- 
angular prisms (in Figs. 119 and 121), made of wood, I left 
hollow grooves within which winding copper wire, covered 
with silk, I have succeeded in obtaining between each 
tooth of this iron wheel as many helices or electro-dynamic 
coils, well isolated. 

** In all these bobbins, some of which are indicated by r 
(Figs. 120 and 121), the wire is wound in the same direction, 
and each of them has nine spirals. Any two consecutive 
bobbins, as the two r, r', are separated from each other by 
an iron tooth of the wheel and by a little piece, or triangu- 
lar prism, of wood, m, m (Figs. 119, 120, 121). Passing from 
one bobbin to construct the following one, I have left free - 
a tassel, or stirrup, of copper wire, fixing it to the piece of 
wood m which separates the two bobbins. On the axis MM 
(Fig. 121), to which the wheel so constructed is annexed, I 
have brought all the tassels that with one end make the 
end of the bobbin, and with the other the beginning of the 
subsequent one, making them pass through convenient 
holes made in a wooden collar centered on the axis itself, 
and then attaching each of them to the commutator c 
(Fig. 121), also centered on the same axis. This commutator 
consists of a low, small cylinder of wood, with two rows of 
grooves around the extremities of the cylindrical surface, 
in which sixteen copper pieces are inlaid, eight on the upper 
part and as many below : the first alternating with the 
second, all concentric with the wooden cylinder, a little 
projecting and alternating with the wood. In figure c of 
the commutator, the small pieces of copper are shown by 



212 BTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the dark spaces. Each of these small pieces of copper is 
soldered to the corresponding tassel joined between the two 
bobbins. So that all the bobbins communicate with each 
other, each being united to the successive one by a conduc- 
tor of which one of the small copper pieces of the commuta- 
tor itself makes part, and then putting two of these in 
oonmiunication with the poles of a pile by means of two 
small metallic wheels k, k (Figs. 120, 121), the current divid- 
ing will run through the helix on one side and the other of 
the points whence the tassels start united to the two small 
communicating pieces, and the magnetic poles shall appear 
in the iron of the circle in N S. Upon such poles N S act the 
poles of a fixed electro-magnet AB, and determine the rota- 
tion of the transversal electro-magnet around its axis m, as 
in it (the electro-magnet), even when it is in motion, the 
poles are always produced in the usual same positions N S 
which correspond to the communications with the pile. 

" This fixed electro-magnet, as appears by Figs. 120, 121, 
is composed of two iron cylinders AB, joined together by an 
iron cross-piece FF, to which one is permanently screwed, 
and the other is fastened by a screw G placed underneath, 
which allows it to run along a groove in order to make the 
poles of the cylinders AB approach or recede from the teeth 
of the wheel. The current of the pile entering from the 
conducting wire h, passes through a wire to the communi- 
cation ly and from that to the little wheel k circulates 
around all the bobbins of the wheel and returns through 
the connection Z', which makes it pass through another 
copper wire to the helix, which surrounds the cylinder A. 
From this coming out again, it passes to the helix of the 
cylinder B, and is conveyed through another copper wire to 
the second conducting wire A'. I have found it very advan- 
tageous to add to the two poles of the fixed electro-magnet 
two soft iron armatures, A A A, B B B, each of which em- 
braces for more than one-third of the circle the wheel that 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 218 

constitutes the transversal electro-magnet, placing them 
very near to the teeth of the same, and tying them together 
with copper guides E E, as is seen in the horizontal projec- 
tion, Fig. 120. These armatures have not been designated 
in the vertical projection. Fig. 121, of the machine, because 
they would have concealed the bobbins and the teeth of 
ihe wheel too much. 

"The machine works when the current passes only 
through the circular electro-magnet, but it has much less 
strength than wh<en the current passes also through the 
fixed electro-magnet. I have made several experiments, 
keeping an accoimt of the mechanical work which the 
machine produced, and of the corresponding consumption 
of the pile. The system adopted in these experiments was 
the following: The axis of the small electro-magnetic 
machine had a pulley QQ, Fig. 121, which was embraced 
by a belting which was closed around a very large wheel, 
and which compelled it to turn round when the small 
electro-magnetic machine moved. The axis of this wheel 
was horizontal, and a rope coiling around it, lifted a 
weight. At one of the extremities of the horizontal axis of 
the small winch was an iron, which was pressed down in 
such a manner that the weight on being raised would be 
sufficient to put in a state approaching that of motion all 
the apparatus, including the small electro-magnetic ma- 
chine, through which the current does not pass. By such a 
disposition, when the machine acts, the mechanical work 
expended to overcome the friction is equal to that employed 
to lift the weight, and in order to have all the work done by 
the electro-magnetic machine, it was sufficient to double 
that obtained from the multiplication of the weight by the 
height to which it was lifted. Having so calculated the 
mechanical work produced, in order to know the consump- 
tion that was going on in the pile for producing such work, 
A voltameter, made of sulphate of copper, was interposed in 



214 DYNAMO-BLBCTRIO MACHINES. 

the circuit of the current, the copper plates of which were 
weighed before and after the experiment. 

" I shall give the figures obtained in one of such experi- 
ments with the small transversal electro-magnetic machine. 
This small machine, which had a wheel of the diameter of 
13 centimeters, and was supplied by a pile of four small 
Bunsen elements, and lifted to 8™- 66 a weight of about 
3^- (2,812), having valued the friction so that it made a me- 
chanical revolution of 28'''"- 415. The positive copper of the 
voltameter decreased in weight 0'* 224 : the negative copper 
increased by 0'- 235, so that on an average the chemical work- 
ing of the voltameter may be Said to be 0» 235. This num- 
ber multiplied by the ratio of the equivalent of the zinc to 
that of the copper, and by the number of the elements of 
the pile, gives for the weight of zinc consumed CK- 951. 
Therefore, in order to produce a kilogrammeter of mechan- 
ical work, 33 milligrams of zinc have been consumed in the 
pile. 

'*In another experiment made with 5 elements, the con- 
sumption was 36 milligrams for every kilogrammeter. 
These results, although not suflScient to put the new model 
notably above the other small electro-magnetic machines, 
yet do not appear to me to be bad when I consider several 
defects of construction that exist in it, which are not found 
in other small machines of their kind. Among others I 
must note that the commutator is made of copper and badly 
centred on the axis, so that not all the contacts always take 
place sufficiently well. 

"The reasons that induced me to construct the smalt 
electro-magnetic machine upon the system described were 
the following : 

"1. In the method adopted the current never ceases to 
circulate in the helices, and the machine does not move by 
a series of impulsions that succeed each other more or less- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 215 

rapidly, but by a union of forces (copia) that act continu- 
ously. 

**2. The circular construction of the revolving magnet 
contributes, together with the preceding method of succes- 
sive magnetizations, to give regularity to the movement 
and the least expenditure of actual force {viva forza) in 
shock or friction. 

''3. In it nothing is sought but that the magnetization 
and demagnetization of the iron of the electro-magnet be 
accomplished instantaneously, to which are opposed both 
the extra (estra) currents and the coercive force of which 
the iron can never completely get rid, but it is only required 
that every portion of the iron of the transversal electro- 
magnet, subjected always to the convenient electro-dynamic 
forces, pass successively through the various degrees of 
magnetization. 

" 4. The external armatures of the fixed electro-magnet 
continuing to act upon the teeth of the electric wheel, and 
embracing very many of them, do not abandon its (the 
wheel's) action while magnetism remains in them. The 
sparks are increased in number, but much decreased in 
intensity, inasmuch as there are no strong outside currents 
on the opening of the circuit, which may always be kept 
closed, and it is only when the machine acts that an in- 
ducted current continues directed in a contrary course from 
the current of the pile. 

" I think that the appreciation of this model may be in- 
creased by being able, with facility, to convert the machine 
from an electro-magnetic one to a magneto-electric one 
with a continuous current, when, in place of the electro- 
magnet A B, Figs. 120 and 121, there would be a permanent 
magnet, and the transversal electro-magnet would be made 
to revolve : the result obtained would indeed be a magneto- 
electric machine which would give a continuous induced 
current directed always in the same course. In order tO' 



:216 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

find the more convenient positions for the rollers (scan- 
> daglio) upon the commutator^ with the object of collecting 
the induced current, we observe that through the influ- 
ence upon the movable electro-magnet are formed the 
poles opposite the extremities of a diameter in the presence 
of the poles of a fixed magnet. 

" These poles N S maintain a fixed position even when 
the transversal electro-magnej; circulates around its axis ; 
therefore, with regard to the magnetism, and consequently 
also to the induced currents, we may consider and suppose 
that the bobbins made of copper wire turn round, wound 
upon the circular magnet, this remaining immovable. In 
order to study the induced currents that develop upon such 
l)obbins, let us take one of them for examination in the 
various positions that it may assimie. 

"From the pole N, Fig. 122, going toward pole S, there 
will develop in it a current directed in one course until it 
(the bobbin) arrives at the point in the middle a ; from this 
point further on the current will assume an inverse direc- 
tion. From S, then proceeding toward N, until they arrive 
at the point in the middle 6, the currents will maintain the 
same direction that they had between a and S. After b 
again they will invert their direction, resuming that which 
they hacP between N and a. Now, as all the bobbins com- 
municate between themselves, the electromotive forces of 
a given direction will sum up together, and will give to the 
total current the disposition shown by the arrows in Fig. 122. 
And, in order to gather it, the positions most convenient 
for the plummets shall be a & ; that is to say, the plimmiets 
on the commutator are placed at a right angle with the line 
of magnetization of the electro-magnet. The induced cur- 
rent varies its direction, changing the course of the rota* 
tion. With regard to the commutator, when the rollers 
are on the diameter corresponding to the line of magnetiza- 
-tion in any way that the electro-magnet turns, they do not 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 



217 



-gather any current. Displacing them from such a position 
on one side, a direct current is obtained in a direction con- 
trary to that which would be obtained by displacing them 
on the other side. 

" In order to develop an induced current in the machine 
constructed, I approached to the magnetic wheel the op- 
posed poles of two permanent magnets or magnetized with 
a current the fixed electro-magnet therein to be found, and 
compelled the transversal electro-magnet to turn en its 
axis. 

^'Both in the first and in the second manner, I obtained 
a current continuously directed in the same course, which 
showed in a galvanometer (bussola) a satisfactory inten- 
sity, even after having crossed the sulphate of copper and 
the water acidulated with sulphuric acid. It is evident 
that the second method cannot be convenient, but that it 




Pacinotti Commutaiffr or ColUctor 



remains easy to place a permanent magnet instead of the 
temporary one A F E B, and then the electro-magnetic ma- 
10 



218 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

• Fio. IM. 




Pacinotti Machitu at the Paris Electrical ExhihitioH, 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT MACHINES. 219 

^hine which results shall have the advantage of giving 
induced currents, collected and directed in the same course, 
without the necessity of mechanical organs that separate 
them from others opposed, and which make them cooperate 
one with the other. And this model well shows how the 
electro-magnetic machine is opposed to the magneto-elec- 
tric one, inasmuch as in the first, the electric current circu- 
lating through the bobbins, introduced therein by the con- 
ducting wires K', the movement of the wheel was obtained 
and its mechanic work, and in the second employing me- 
chanic work to make the wheel turn, a current is obtained 
by the eflEect of the permanent magnet, which circulates 
into the bobbins and is carried to the conducting wires 
IT to be introduced into the body upon which it has to 
Act." 

Fig. 123 presents a larger view of the commutator of 
- the Pacinotti motor. Fig. 124 is a view of the machine as 
it was exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition. It will 
be noticed that the rollers are here shown in the correct 
position, at an angle of 90° from that shown in the plan 
view. Fig. 120.— K.] 

4S. [nrhe Slicts I^ctehine ctnd thctt of 
TVorms de Xtomilly. The history of the devel- 
opment of the Gramme machine would be incomplete with- 
out reference to the motor of Elicts and the proposed 
generator of De Romilly, 

Elias of Amsterdam constructed an electro-motor in 
1842, a model of which was exhibited at the recent Paris 
Electrical Exposition. It is shown in Fig. 125. It does not 
seem to have occurred to him that it was reversible, in the 
sense of being an electric generator as well as an electro- 
motor. In this apparatus there is an exterior iron ring 
divided into six equal segments, and at the junctions of the 
segments are six iron enlargements which act as an equal 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



number of magnetic poles. On each segment an insulated 
copper wire is wound in a single course, to cover the space 
between the poles. At each pole the direction of winding 
is reversed, so that neighboring poles are of unlike polarity. 
The current which energizes this multipolar magnet comes 

Fio. 185. 




Rttait M«t9r. 



from a galvanic battery distinct from the one which sup- 
plies the inner ring. It enters and leaves the coils on the 
horizontal line joining two poles. It is divided at point of 
entrance, and is reunited at the point of exit so that half of 
the current flows in the upper part and the other half in the' 
lower part of the ring. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 221. 

The inner iron ring is made of like shape with the outer, 
hut has its polar enlargements made on the outer periphery 
of the ring. The coils^are wound and the current is divided 
in the same manner as that of the stationary ring. It is 
mounted on a three-armed spider, keyed or otherwise fas- 
tened to the shaft. The current from another battery is 
passed to it through springs and a commutator which acts 
to reverse the direction of the current through the coils at 
each passage of the poles of the inner ring before those of 
the outer. In this way, the two sets of magnets alternately 
attract and repel each other in one direction — ^that of rota- 
tion. This apparatus is very suggestive of various mechan- 
ical variations of the Gramme machine, which have been 
invented anew by many experimenters in electricity. 

WoTrma de Bomilly patented in France, March 3d, 1866, 
magneto-electric machines having annular and cylindrical 
armatures, resembling, under casual observation, those of 
Gramme and Siemens. But the coils were not connected in 
like maimer. They seem to have formed in each case one 
continuous circuit without loops, but with two free ends 
which were the poles for alternating currents which could 
be turned in one direction by a commutator. — K.] 

48. ConstiTixctloii of the Griramme 
.A.]:*iiia,tiu*e« The importance of Pacinotti's invention 
only appeared after Dr. W. Siemens had published his dis- 
covery of the principle of conversion of mechanical power 
into magnetism and electricity (§§ 35 and 36). 

In July, 1871, Jamin comimunicated to the French Acad- 
emy of Sciences the statement that Oramme had invented a 
new magneto-electric machine which gave continuous cur- 
rents. On account of the lateness of the hour, his address 
was postponed till the next meeting, when the machine was 
■hown and explained. 

The main part of the Gramme machine is the ring of 



:222 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Pacinotti (§ 46). But no doubt it was invented independ- 
ently, and that its construction was made better. 

Zenobe Theophile Gramme, a Belgian by birth, was en- 
gaged with the Compagnie I'Alliance as pattern-maker. 
He had previous to that time made several inventions and 
had a number of patents for regulators of electric light and 
DMigneto-electric machines. 

Without knowledge of Pacinotti or his claims, (Gramme 
<jonceived the idea of causing an inducing magnet to rotate 
within a ring encircled by wire convolutions for the pur- 
pose of generating induced currents having one direction. 




CoHstructioH oj Gramme Ring, 

Afterwards he adopted the idea which Pacinotti had set 
forth, and rotated the ring between the poles of fixed per- 
manent magnets or electro-magnets. He, however, changed 
its construction, in the manner of connecting the collector 
(wrongly called commutator by Pacinotti), so as to make 
the whole more compact and substantial. [It will be no- 
ticed by the reader that the Gramme ring diflEers in two 
important particulars from the Pacinotti, The Chramme is 
of uniform cross-section, and is entirely covered by the 
small bobbins. The sixteen radial projections on the core 
of the Pacinotti become by induction so many polar ends. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 

either seven or eight of each name, dependent upon the 
changing positions of the ring during rotation ; all upon one 
side of a line drawn from N to S (Fig. 120) being of like 
polarity. Consequently, there are consecutive rises and 
falls in magnetism as it rotates, and therefore the electric 
eurrents generated in the bobbins have an intermittent and 
alternate character. — K.] 

We have already said that the winding of the soft iron 
ring consists of many bobbins of insulated copper wire 
wound directly on the iron core ; the bobbins being placed 
close together, and the inner end of each soldered to the 
outer end of the neighboring one, so that the entire number 
of bobbins form a series of convolutions constituting an 
electric circuit without end. 

Each bobbin may have any number of convolutions of 
the insulated wire, and there may be any convenient num- 
ber of bobbins. Both "of these conditions depend upon the 
object for which the machine is intended — whether greater 
or less electromotive force is needed. 

While the smaller hand machines have say 30 or 32 bob- 
bins, the larger ones have exceeding 100. 

[Their number is an even one in all cases. — K.] 

The soldered jimctions of the wires of the bobbins must 
be equally distant from each other, and be all upon one side 
of the ring. This side we will call the rear. 

A ring of this kind is shown at A B, Fig. 126, the rear 
side being turned towards the reader. For ease of illustra- 
tion the ring is shown with a portion cut away, and some 
of the bobbins separated from the rest. 

The core is not a massive iron ring, but is generally 
made of a number of well-annealed iron wires, because it 
receives and delivers magnetism most easily in this form. 
[In practice, the core is made up by winding upon a drum 
or cylinder of metal, coils of a continuous length of iron 
wire in regular order and layers. The two free ends of the 



224 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

wire are soldered to the mass of wire, the roughness filed 
ofiE, and the whole ring saturated with a solution of shellac, 
which is then allowed to dry. The surface of the ring is 
then covered smoothly with carefully-laid strips of muslin, 
or tape, and again coated with shellac. — ^K.] 

The space within the ring is filled by a wooden disk, or 
cylinder, which serves to carry the armature upon the shaft, 
or arbor, as well as to keep all the parts solidly in place. 
The connections between the soldered junctions of the bob- 
bins and the places where the currents are taken oflE are 
those shown by the L-shaped pieces of metal, R. Each 
piece is soldered at a junction of two bobbins and the shorter 
arm of the L. There is one piece for each junction. 

When these are all placed the shaft, or arbor, is forced 
in, but with some insulating material to prevent metallic, 
or electric contact between the arbor and L pieces. The 
currents are collected by means of springs, or rollers, which 
press upon the L pieces at or near R during rotation. 

[The construction of the Gramme armature just de- 
scribed is not now pursued, but is varied as follows : The 
ring core, after preparation as in our previous note, is 
marked with lines which show equal divisions to the num- 
ber of the bobbins which are to be wound upon it. 

Then the ring is clamped to the top of a securely fast- 
ened bench, or stool, so that the hand of the winder can be 
passed through it. The proper length of wire for one bob- 
bin is then taken, doubled in the middle, and one half 
passed through the ring. Segmentally formed clamps are 
fastened to the ring so as to leave a space between them 
the same as is to be occupied by one bobbin. The wire is 
then wound in and out ; first one half and then the other 
half in alternate passes. Care is taken to keep as even 
strain upon the wire as possible. When the winding of 
one bobbin is completed the ends are twisted together tem- 
porarily, and one of the clamps is moved to the next mark 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 225 

on the ring, and another bobbin is wound in like manner 
in the space between the previous one and the clamp. This 
is repeated until the ring is filled. In this manner of wind- 
ing, the two ends of the wire are gradually worked to the 
outside, instead of the otherwise inner end being passed 
out between the bobbins, as shown in Fig. 126. 

The collector-bars are not used as shown in Fig. 126 at 
R, but somewhat as shown in Fig. 138. They are fastened 
by soldering or clamping to the wires of the boUbins as in 
Fig. 138. The inner end of the wire of one bobbin being 
fastened to the collector-bar with the outer end of the bob- 
bin next adjacent, say to the right. 

The collector-bars or sections (the L-pieces) are sepa- 
rated from each other by insulators of pressed paper of the 
same form. Insulating disks are provided with grooves to 
receive the ends so as to clamp and retain them in posi- 
tion, as in Fig. 138. This described arrangement is shown 
in the machines Figs. 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, and 144. 

The wooden cylinder has been found to give much trou- 
ble from becoming loose, in practice, owing to shrinkage. 
I have devised an expansible metal carrier to obviate 
this diflSculty, which is a serious one in machines having 
armatures of large' diameter. This armature is securely 
fastened to the proper place on a shaft, or arbor, with a 
pulley to receive the belt by which it is rotated between the 
poles Qf the field-of-force magnets, as is more fully de- 
scribed in the next succeeding sections. — K.] 

40. The Oi-amme IMachine. Fig. 127 rep- 
resents the construction of a small Gramme machine to be 
used by hand power. It delivers a current equal to about 
that from three Bunsen cells. The ring with the collector- 
arrangement first described in § 48 will be recognized. 

The field-of-force magnets are permanent ones of steel, 
and are provided with soft cast-iron shoes, as pole-pieces 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



which encircle concentrically nearly half of the armature 
in the case of each pole, so that but a small part of the 
armature is without the direct magnetic influence. 




Gramme Machine, 



By division of the influence (§ 2) the part A of the iron 
ring nearest to the south pole S receives north polarity, and 
the other half of the ring receives south polarity by influ- 
ence of the north pole N. M and M' are the extremities of 
the line of magnetic neutrality. 

If the ring be set in rapid rotation by means of the 
handle on the large cog-wheel which engages with a pinion 
on the shaft of the armature, two systems of induced cur- 
rents,^ having contrary direction, will be generated in the 
manner described in the preceding sections. These two 
currents meet at the neutral line, and simply neutralize 
each other unless a path be furnished through which they 
can jointly flow. For this purpose Or amine has provided 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 227 

in this machine two bundles of springy copper wires which 
press upon the collector-bars which are connected with the 
bobbins of the armature, on the line M M' of neutrality. 
These bundles of wires are called brushes. They are in 
this machine in direct electrical communication with the 
binding-posts shown with the wires in them, ready to be 
connected with any electrical apparatus. In this way he 
provides for the simple and sure production of continuous 
currents of electricity. 

The continuity is, as we have already shown, due to the 
continuous moving of many wire coils or bobbins within 
the magnetic field-of -force between the poles of the magnets 
and the outer surface of the iron ring. A further advantage 
is gained by reason of the brushes being flexible and elastic 
in their bearing upon the collector-bars, so that the current- 
circuit is never broken by one bar of the collector passing 
from contact with a brush before the next one in succession 
has passed to contact. 

From Fig. 27 it is easily seen that the sum of all the 
currents generated during a rotation, i. e,, the greatest 
strength, is obtained if the brushes be so placed that a. line 
connecting the places of contact with the collector is per- 
pendicular to a line connecting the magnet-poles. No 
current is obtained if those lines be made coincident. 

If the brushes be moved closer together, but so that a 
line connecting the contact-points is not parallel with the 
pole line, a current will still be had, but a very much 
weaker one. The direction of the current differs with the 
position of the brushes. If, for example, they bear upon , 
the collector-bars between MS and M' N, the direction of 
the current will be different from that if the brushes bore 
upon the bars between S M' and M N. It follows, there- 
fore, that by application of several pairs of brushes several 
currents can be conducted from one ring, the same as in 
the conducting of several currents from a galvanic battery 



228 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



of several cells. It is also evident that several such ma- 
chines may be coupled up for quantity or for tension of 
current. 

The latter object is, however, more simply attained by 
selecting the proper size and length of wire to be wound 



Fio. 1S8. 




Gramme Machint /ur I land- Power, 



upon the ring. As a rule, the tension of the current, the 
rate of rotation being the same, seems to be directly proper 



CONTIBTUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



229 



tional to the number of conyolutions of wire on the arma- 
ture. As, however, the electrical resistance increases in the 
same proportion, when quantity eflEects are desired as well, 
the wire and size of the machine must be proportionately 
increased. If, however, the external electrical resistance is 
great, as in telegraph lines, fine wires are to be preferred. 
Gramme machines of this type are made for physical and 
chemical laboratories with armatures for quantity and elec- 
tromotive force to be used in change. 



Fig. 129 



^€>, Tlie Grramme IVXacliiiie loi* IIa.nd 
<>!• Foot Poyvel'. Tlie Cal>iiiot ]\Ja- 
cliiiie?^. Brequet, of Paris, makes machines of this 
style which are intended for an always-ready apparatus 
for instruction in physics 
and chemistry, and for 
medical uses. They are 
made of a strength equal to 
eight Bnuspii cells coupled 
in series. 

The first one of this kind. 
Fig. 128, had a large perma- 
nent magnet, and supplied 
a current equal to only three 
Bunsen cells. They were 
soon replaced by the form 
shown in Fig. 129, the mag- 
nets of which were much 
stronger. These latter soon 
after received the present 
form for foot-power shown 
in Fig. 130. 

The chief characteristic of the present machines of this 
type is the peculiar form and construction of the permanent 
magnet. This consists, according to Professor Jamin, of 




Gramme Machine for Hand-Power. 



230 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 



Paris, of a great number of thin steel plates, tightly pressed 
together at the sides by two clamps, but allowed to slightly 
diverge at their ends. These ends terminate in massive 



Fio. 180. 




Gramme Machint for Foot-Power, 



shoes, which act as poles to the magnet, and nearly com- 
pletely embrace the armature. 

The brushes bear upon the collector-bars as in the pre- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 231 

viously -described Gramme machines, i. c, on the neutral 
line between the poles. 

Jamin found by a series of experiments the best form 
and construction of a steel, laminated magnet, and this 
construction has received his name. 

SI. Tlie Gri?aiiime Larg-e I>ynamo- 
Electrac >f!acliliie ioi* Gralvanoplastlc 
I^TirposeH. As long as steel magnets were applied in 
machines for the production of the electric current, the 
strength of the current could not be much increased, as it 
was necessary to keep within dimensions similar to those of 
the older magneto-electric machines, such as those of the 
Society TAlliance, etc. Gramme therefore came to the con- 
clusion to replace the steel magnets by strong electro-mag- 
nets, arranged according to the dynamo-electric principle 
(§ 35), but varied its employment by using a portion only of 
the current produced by the armature to energize the elec- 
tro-magnets. It is clear that instead of one magnet with 
two poles, two magnets or electro-magnets with four poles 
can be used to act upon the bobbins of the armature. 

In this case there are only small spaces left between the 
pole-ends at the neutral points. Corresponding to these 
four neutral points are four wire-brushes to conduct the 
currents from the armature into two circuits. 

The first large dynamo-electric machine built by Gramme 
was made in 1872 in the shops of Brequet, for the galvano- 
plastic establishment of Christofle & Co,, in Paris, and is 
still working to the entire satisfaction of the proprietors, 
without having had any repairs since that time. Towards 
the end of the same year, ten other machines were made 
after the same pattern, with cast-iron frames. This firm 
bought six of these. These machines were arranged as 
shown in Fig. 131, having four electro-magnets and two 
armatures. One armature furnished the current for ener- 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 
Fia. 181. 




Gramme Large Machine for Gahnno/^Iastic Work. 

^zing the electro-magnets, whilo the other furuished the 
working current ; by this arrangement the dynamo-electric 
principle is only partly brought into action. These ma- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



233 



chines were large and heavy. Each one weighed 750 kilo- 
grammes, and the copper wire used on it weighed 176 
kilogrammes. It was 1.30 metres in height, 0.80 metre in 
breadth, and eflfected a deposition of 600 grammes of silver 
per hour by the expenditure of one horse-power. Toward 
the end of 1873, Gramme built a magneto-electric machine 
for galvanoplastic purposes after an entirely diflferent 
model, which had great advantages compared with the pre- 
«ceding ones. This is shown in Fig. 132. It had but one 

Fig. 182. 




ynu Gieamme Machine. 



armature, and only two horizontal electro-magnets arranged 
for two consequent poles. It was smaller, lighter, and 
cheaper than any of the previous machines. Its weight 
was only 177.5 kilogrammes, and that of the copper for the 
armature and electro-magnets 47 kilogrammes. Its dimen- 
sions were 0.55 metre in length and breadth, and 0.60 metre 



234 DYNAHO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in height. The deposit was the same as in the previous 
machine, namely, 600 grammes of silver per hour, and the 
power expended was only 50 kilogrammetres, or two-thirds 
of a horse-power. Compared with the model of 1872, this 
machine has the following advantages : (1) it only occupies 
one-half the space, (2) its weight is hardly one-fourth that 
of the previous machines, (3) the weight of copper is only 
one-quarter that of the former, and (4) its eflSeiency is 
thirty per cent, of the entire power expended upon it. 

All of these advantages were obtained by omitting the 
second electro-magnet and its armature ; and by the ar- 
rangement under which the convolutions of the electro- 
magnet, and of the armature, and the decomposition cell 
form a single circuit. Instead of the round wires with 
which the iron cores of the electro-magnets were covered in 
the former machines, each core of electro-magnets was 
enclosed with a single sheet of copper covering the entire 
length of the iron core, so that the whole covering con- 
sisted only of four copper bands. 

As in machines to be used for galvanoplastic purposes, 
quantity of current of electricity is more desirable than undue 
electromotive force, the coils of the armature consist of a 
half flat, very thick wire, which is strong enough to resist 
the centrifugal force, notwithstanding the rotations of the 
armature are 500 per minute. Neither the ring nor the 
electro-magnets are much heated, and no sparks are seen 
at the points of contact of the brushes with the collector. 

The iron frame of the machine is very strong : while the 
steel arbor, having but little weight upon it, and only a 
small diameter at the journals, runs with very little friction. 
The polar extensions are of soft cast-iron, and encase 
almost the entire circumference of the armature. 

The dynamo-electric principle is fully carried out in 
these machines ; but this is objectionable in some cases, such 
as for instance where polarization of the galvanoplastic- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 235 

solution takes place. Complicated attachments then be- 
come necessary. . 

Siim Grrainme's ILia.x^g'e Oynamo-Elec- 
"tric ]\£acliiiies for the I*rod.ia.ctioii of 
Electric Light. The Light JMachines. 

It is a known fact that by the passage of a galvanic current 
through a conductor, a part of the electricity is converted 
into heat, and the temperature of the conductor is increased. 
[This phenomenon of heat is simply the result of the passage 
of the current of electricity ; some of the energy is con- 
served as heat, none of the electricity is converted into 
heat.— K.] 

This elevation of temperature increases within certain 
limits in proportion to the resistance which the current en- 
counters, and under some circumstances becomes so great 
that the conductor acquires a glowing white temperature. 
If two small carbon rods be interposed in the circuit of a 
galvanic battery in such a manner that the end of the 
metallic wire connected with one of the poles of the battery 
be connected with one of the carbon rods, and the other 
wire with the other carbon in similar manner, and the two 
carbons be touched together, the temperature at the junc- 
tion will be elevated so as to make them glow at that point. 
If they then be separated a little from each other, the cur- 
rent will not be interrupted, but a bridge of glowing parti- 
cles of carbon will be formed between the carbon points, 
consisting of particles of carbon carried over from the posi- 
tive terminal to the negative one. In this flame the current 
will pass so long as the space between the points be not too 
great. This speu^e, filled by the glowing particles of car- 
bon, is called the voltaic arc. On account of the enormous 
resistance which the current encoimters in a voltaic arc, a 
large quantity of electricity is converted into heat at that 
part of the circuit, and the carbon particles so heated be- 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

come intensely luminous and radiate a blinding light — ^the 
electric light. We will coiisider further on the properties 
of this light. 

The strength of the electric light depends upon the dis- 
tance to which these carbon rods can be removed from 
each other without extinguishing the light ; hence, in order 
to obtain a very intense light the arc must be as large as- 
possible. In this case the resistance in the circuit increases 
so much that only currents of very great tension will suc- 
ceed in overcoming it. This being the case the Crramine 
machine for the production of electric light must be made 
so as to generate currents of much higher electromotive 
force than is the case with those used for galvanoplastic 
purposes. 

According to Ohm's law the strength of current proceed- 
ing from a generating apparatus is at its maximum when 
the interior and exterior resistances of the circuit are equal. 
For the generation of an intense light, therefore, the resist- 
ance of the Oramme armature must be very great ; i. e., 
the wire with which the iron core is encircled must be of 
much less diameter than is the case with the machines be- 
fore described, and a greater number of convolutions must 
be made. The velocity of rotation must also be greater, in 
order to convert as much as possible of the mechanical 
work into electricity, and this again into heat in the arc in 
a unit of time. 

The first light-machine built by. Oramme gave a light 
equal to 900 Carcel burners. It weighed 1000 kilogrammes, 
had three armatures and six electro-magnets. The current 
of one armature served for energizing the electro-magnets, 
while the two other armatures gave the current for the 
light. The copper-wire of the electro-magnets weighed 250 
kilogrammes, and the wire of the three armatures 75 kilo- 
grammes. The machine occupied a space 0.80 metre long 
and wide, and 1.25 metres high. It was used a long time 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



23r 



for experimenting in the Tower at Westminster, in Lon- 
don, and is working very well to-day, but it becomes. 



Fro. 183 




Gramme Largt Machine with Two Armatures. 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

filightly heated durinf^ its working, and shows sparks be< 
tween the wire brushes and the collector-bars. 

As no stronger light than that of 600 Carcel burners was 
then required, Gramme was enabled to decrease the dimen- 
sions of the new machine somewhat, and thereby removed 
the heating of the ring ajid the formation of sparks. A 
machine of this kind is illustrated by Fig. 133. It still has 
six upright electro-magnets which are set in a triangle, 
has only two armatures, and is arranged according to the 
dynamo-electric principle ; or it may be arranged so as to 
employ one armature for energizing the electro-magnets, 
and the other for the production of one electric light, or for 
two entirely separate lights. Under this construction the 
machine weighs 700 kilogrammes ; the wires of the electro- 
magnets weigh 180 kilogrammes ; and the wires of the 
armatures 40 kilogrammes. It is 0.65 metre long and wide, 
and 0.90 metre high. It gives a normal strength of light 
equal to 550 Carcel burners, but can, in way of experiment, 
be made to give double that light by increasing the rapidity 
of rotation. If each armature be used for the production 
of a separate light, each light has the value of 150 Carcel 
burners. 

Machines of this class are used on ships of the French 
and Russian navies, and are also used for army purposes in 
the forts of other nations. When the armature is rotated 
at a speed of 400 per minute, no undue heat or sparks can 
be observed. The lij^ht, however, has not suflScient force 
to penetrate the air in foggy weather to a sufficiently great 
distance. 

This disadvantage Gramme also overcame. After dili- 
gent study of all the circumstances, based upon numerous 
experiments and experiences, he constructed light-ma- 
chines after another model, similar to that shown by Fig. 
134. In this machine the frame is constructed of two cast- 
iron uprights, connected with each other by two strong 



CONTINtrOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 239 

iwnrought-iron cylindrical bars. These bars form the cores 
of four electro-magnetic poles. These bars are also pro- 
vided with semicircular pole-pieces at the centres of their 
lengths, uniting two like poles each. 

The iron core of the armature is not, as in machines pre- 
viously described, wound with bobbins connected up in one 
series, but has two systems of bobbins, sixty in each sys- 
tem. These two systems are wound in parallel lengths 
upon the core and branch oflf alternately on opposite sides of 
the armature to two sets of collector-bars, one set on each 
flide. Two sets of brushes are provided, forming two com- 
plete circuits. 

The electro-magnets are energized by the currents com- 
ing from the armatures. The principle of dynamo division 
of current is, hence, fully carried out in these machines. 
One of these machines occupies a space 0.8 metre long, 
0.550 metre wide, and 0.585 metre high. Its weight is 400 
Mlogrammes. The ring has an exterior diameter of 0.230 
metre, and carries 14 kilogrammes of copper wire. The 
iron cores of the electro-magnets have a diameter of 0.07 
metre, and a length of 0.404 metre. The wire wound upon 
them weighs 96 kilogrammes. 

Owing to the peculiar manner in which the wire is 
woimd upon the ring, the whole acts like a double arma- 
ture, as it contains two series of bobbins completely insu- 
lated from each other, each series having its own collector 
and set of brushes. 

Both series can be coupled so as to furnish quantity or 
tension currents. In the latter case, with a speed of 700 
pef minute, they give a light equal in strength to 800 Car- 
cel burners. Coupled for quantity, the strength of light 
increases, with a speed of 1350 rotations per minute, to 2000 
Carcel burners. 

This model was adopted by the French, Austrian, Rus- 
sian, Norwegian, Turkish, and other governments, and was 



240 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

well recommended. Recently machines were built after a 
similar but rather more advantageous model, which gave 
the enormous light of 5000 Carcel burners, or that of 35000 
normal paraffine candles. 

This last construction Ghramme afterwards simplified, 
and made machines of smaller dimensions, but employed 
only two electro-magnets, still with a double ring and two 
collectors and sets of brushes. Fig. 134 shows one of these 
machines of 183 kilogrammes total weight. The copper 
wire for the electro-magnet and the ring together only 
weighs 47 kilogrammes. Its length and width is 0.53 me- 
tre, the height 0.60 metre. Under normal working it gives 
a light of 200 Carcel burners, but it can be made to give far 
beyond this for a short time. 

Fig. 184. 




Grammes Light Machine with Double Armature. 



Under this construction, also, the two halves of the ma- 
chine can be coupled as desired, for either quantity or ten- 
sion, by aid of the connections at the base. The halv^ 



CONTINUOUS-CURRENT MACHINES. 



241 



can also be used for the production of two independent 
lights, which is of great practical importance, as we shall 



Fio. 135. 




11 



Simplest Gramme Light Machine. 



242 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Bee further on, because the divisibility of the electric cur- 
rent of a machine, or of a battery, for the production of 
more lights than one is accompanied with difficulties. 

The most simple Gramme machine consists of only two 
magnets and one armature. And such a one is sufficient 
for many industrial purposes, such as galvanoplasty, and 
for illumination of large spaces, factories, halls, working 
places, etc. Fig. 135 shows one of these machines. It 
weighs but 180 kilogrammes, . and measures 0.60 metre in 
height, has a width of 0.35 metre, and a length, including 
the pulley, of 0.65 metre. The stand weighs 120 kilo- 
grammes, and has a height of 0.40 metre. The electro- 
magnets have 28 kilogrammes, and the armature 4.5 kilo- 
grammes of copper wire. 

Though having only this small quantity of wire, and 
rotated at a speed of 900 rotations per minute, the light, 
without reflectors, attains a strength of 1440 Carcel burners 
when the carbon points are exactly in line. 

Gramme has recently built new models of his machine 
which serve to supply current to several voltaic arc lamps 
in one circuit. In general arrangement they resemble the 
machine represented in Fig. 135. In consequence of the 
conditions necessary for maximum eflfects : (''the internal 
resistance must equal the external resistance," "the elec- 
tromotive force of the machine must equal twice a counter- 
electromotive force,") the wire is coiled differently about 
the armature. 

[While both of these laws may be correct so far as gal- 
vanic batteries are concerned, the first one does not apply 
to dynamo-electric machines. — K.] 

Gramme has excited the electro-magnets of his machine 
for the production of several lights on one circuit by sepa- 
rate dynamo-electric machines, under which arrangement 
special advantages are gained. In the Paris Exposition of 
1881 Gramme had machines running 5, 10, and 20 lamps. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



243 



The machine for 5 lamps, particularly, had an elegant and 
solid appearance. Each lamp gave a light equal to 150 



Fie.ia6. 




Improvtd Gramme Mackint. 



Carcel burners. The carbons cost 0.15 fr. (3 cts.) per hour 
for each lamp. 

Such a machine can be made to feed 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 lamps, 
as desired. To do this it is only necessary to alter the 
number of rotations, and the resistance of the outer circuit 
to a corresponding extent. 



S44 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

[Fig. 136 shows the construction of Gramme machines 
in 1881. The noticeable feature is the flat form given to the 
cores of the field-magnets. — K.] 

^3. The Fixller-Grramiiie 3I!a.efaLiiie. 

[The only manufacturer in the United States of the Gramme 
machine, as so called in commerce, is The Fuller Electrical 
Company of New York City. The machine has been im- 
proved in mechanical details of construction by Mr. James 
J. Wood, the electrician for this company, as well as in- 
creased in size and electromotive force, even to the extent 
of supplying fifty arc-lamps placed in series, on One circuit. 
The model is nearly the same for all sizes. Fig. 137 is a 
view of one of thes^ machines, which is of much more 
pleasing outline than machines of like name which we have 
been describing. They vary in size and weight, from 30 x 24 
inches base and 250 pounds weight, to 23 x 55 inches base 
and 3500 pounds weight for one-light and fifty-light ma- 
chines, respectively. The lights are of 2000 candles power, 
nominal. Figs. 138 and 139 exhibit the details of construc- 
tion of tfie armature. Upon the shaft k the gun-metal, five- 
armed, spider i is keyed. The arms of this spider are of the 
exact radius of the inside of the armature-core j, which is 
made up of an annular coil of iron wire. Clamps I /, which 
grip the wire core are screwed m m to the ends of the arms 
of the spider. Pieces of wood n are placed to fill up the 
spaces left by the arms between the bobbins on the periph- 
ery of the core. The spaces o under the pieces are used for 
the reception of pieces of lead when needed for the sake of 
obtaining a balance in the weight of the armature. The 
periphery of the whole is tightly bound by bands s s s of 
stout brass wire soldered together, under which are placed 
insulating bands of tape. The core is well wrapped with 
shellacked tape for insulation. The bobbins are wound by 
beginning in the middle of each length of wire which con- 



CONTIfiTUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 246 

Pw. 187. 




FuiUr-Grammt Machint* 



stitutes the bobbin, and winding it on both ways between 
clamps which are temporarily placed on the core at the 



246 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



proper distance apart for the width of the bobbin. Pressed 
cardboard is placed between each two adjacent bobbins for 







I 

.ai 



increased security in insulation. By this mode of winding, 
the two ends of wire are brought to the outside without the 
crossing necessary when wound from one end. The inner 
and outer ends of adjacent coils are secured to the arms r 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



ur 



of the collector by screw-clamps, instead of by soldering, as 
in the other Gramme machines. 

The segments h of the collector are held in conical 
grooves in rings of insulating material inserted in disks of 
metal which form the heads of the collector. These last 
are held in the position of clamping the segments by two 
circular nuts, one of which acts as a jam-nut for the other. 
This construction enables the operator to remove any seg- 
ment of the collector for repairs or replacement within 
a short time. Damaged bobbins can also be more readily 
removed and replaced by new, by reason of the absence of 
the solid hub of wood heretofore used. The collar serves to 
keep the shaft in place, as it is placed on one side of a 
journal-bearing and the pulley on the other. Fig. 140 shows 
the complete armature, collector, shaft and pulley. 

The brushes are each composed of a number of thin rib- 
bons of copper, superimposed and held by proper clamps 
which are fixed near the 
ends of the two arms of a 
yoke, but insulated there- 
from. This yoke is pivoted 
on one of the bearings, with 
its arms extending at an 
angle of 90° from the shaft, 
and its two brush-clamps, 
or holders, extend at an an- 
gle of 90^*from that, so that 
they are parallel with the 
shaft or face of the col- 
lector. 

The normal bearing of 
the brushes on the collector is on the line of magnetic 
neutrality for the greatest eflfect, but if they be moved for- 
ward on it in direction of the rotation, the eflfect produced 
is a decrease in both electromotive force and intensity of 



Fio. 189. 




Efuf Virw Fuller-Gramme A rmature. 



.248 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



current. But if the number of lights be decreased, conse- 
quently the external resistance, the current will rise again 
to its former magnitude, but not the electromotive force, as 



I 




i;hat is determined for a given magnetic strength by the 
position * of the brushes on the collector ; or, in other 
words, by the number of bobbins or convolutions between 
the central line of magnetism joining the field-of-force 



CONTINUOUS CUEEENT MACHINES. 249 

magnet poles and the line joining the brushes. On the 
front end of the machine, Fig. 137, is a hand-wheel which 
is connected by gearing with the yoke, so that by moving 
the wheel the brushes may be moved to any desired posi- 
tion on the collector while the machine is in motion, to suit 
the number of lights running in circuit. The wheel is fas- 
tened by a catch, and a scale is made thereon so that the 
catch may engage with it at any desired position, to suit 
the number of burning lamps. 

The Fuller Electrical Company now makes its large 
Gramme machines with the automatic brush-moving regu- 
lator shown in Figs. 141 and 142 attached. This regulator 
is the invention of Mr. J. J. Wood, the company's elec- 
trician. 

Fig. 141 is an end view, and Fig. 142 a side view of the 
collector-end of one of the fifty arc-light machines. The 
reference letters on the two figures are alike for like parts. 
The shaft k is extended through the end, and has there a 
small friction-roller x fastened to it. The wheel w has an 
annular groove in it a little wider than the diameter of the 
friction-roller x^ and the groove covers the roller so that 
when moved a little laterally, one or the other of its walls 
comes in contact with the periphery of the roller. The 
wheel w has its axis on the short end of the lever v. The 
long end of that lever is attached by a link to the core u of 
the solenoidal-magnet 1 1 It has also attached to it the 
adjustable spiral spring e, which serves to counterbalance 
the magnetic pull of the electro-mag^net t <, and the dash- 
pot piston h to prevent too rapid movements. Set-screws at 
i serve to limit the extent of the vertical movements of the 
lever. 

The wheel w gears with the wheel m, which gears with 
the wheel y, and this last has its axis extended through the 
side 6 of the machine. On this axis is the pinion n, which 
geaxs with the cogs on the hub of the brush-holder yoke o. 



250 



DrNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



The collector is shown at p, and one of the brushes at r, the 
other brush being hidden by the collector. Parts of the 
field-magnets are shown at/ and g, Fig. 142. 

When the brushes are on the neutral line, as we have 
explained in § 10, the available electromotive force of the 

Fio. 141. 




Fuller-Gramme Machine^ with Wood's Regulator, 



machine is at its maximum. But when the brushes are 
moved forward in the direction of the rotation of the arma- 
ture, the electromotive force decreases progressively until 
at the angle of 90° therefrom it is nil. This regulator is 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



251 



'based upon this principle, and its operation is as follows : 
The main circuit is made through the coils of the electro- 
magnet 1 1, and the attractive force thereof due to the nor- 
mal current flowing therein during the operation of the 
machine is counterbalanced by adjustment of the tension of 

Fio. 14S. 




FHller-GratHme Machine^ with U'oocTs Regulator, 



the spring e. Any increase of current above the normal in 
the coils oi tt causes the upward movement of u and its 
attached lever v. This movement brings the inner wall of 
the annular groove against the roller a:, and this f rictional 



252 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES.. 

contact insures the movement of Wy m, y, n, and o on their 
axes, and the movement of the brushes in the direction of 
rotation of the armature, and the consequent decrease of 
electromotive force of the machine, and the resumption by 
current of its normal strength. 

Any decrease of current below the normal decreases the 
magnetic force of t f , and then the spring e pulls the lever v 
downward. This movement brings the outer wall of the 
groove in w into frictional contact with x, and then the 
wheels and brushes are moved in the contrary direction 
until the normal current is restored by reason of increase 
of electromotive force due to the position of the brushes. 

If the decrease of current is due to progressive decrease 
of speed, the brushes might be moved too far, and breakage 
occur if provision was not made for the contingency, hi 
making seven-eighths of a rotation, the wheel y and its 
attached pinion n moves the brush-yoke from and to the 
extremes of adjustment. A pin is provided on the wheel y 
at z, which, when it reaches its extreme backward point 
due to too low current, engages the lever v and lifts it so as 
to remove to from contact with x, and thus stop the move- 
ment of the wheels. 

An automatic apparatus working by increase of magnet- 
ism in the field-magnets of the machine, to make a shunt- 
circuit around the magnet-coils t t, for increasing the 
sensitiveness of the regulator has been devised by Mr. 
Wood.— K.] 

^4. The ]\IftehiTies for tlie Ti^ansmis- 
sion of X^o^vei- \>y Electricity. This special 
application of dynamo-electric machines will be found of 
great importance and receive general attention. Those con- 
structed by Gramme are represented in Figs. 143, 144, and 
145. 

A clear insight to the construction of this machine is 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT HACH^INBS. 



25? 



obtained by examining Figs. 144 and 145. Fig. 144 is a 
longitudinal section, and Fig. 145 a cross-section. The 



FMklOi 




Gramme's Machine /or the Electrical Transmission of Power. 



measurements in millimetres are placed thereon. The oc- 
tagonal frame, made of one piece of cast iron, covers the 
important parts, renders it very compact and substantial, 
and protects the working parts from injury. 

It will be seen that four poles are provided with eight 
magnetic cores, which are so placed that those which come 
together on the polar ends are of like polarity, and that the 
four poles are alternately of opposite name, and generate 
four poles in the ring of the armature. These four poles in 



:264 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the ring remain in the same place relatively to the station- 
ary parts of the machine, but may be said to travel in the 




V 



4 



I 



ring itself when rotated. The same principles are observed 
in this as in the other Oramme machines. 

Further details of the applications of this machine will 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



255 



l)e set forth in that part of Vol. II which treats of the elec- 
tric transmission of power. 



Ste. 


Itfa. 


If 




\ 


t^"" 


^ 





DirtcHon ofCurrtnit in OdagomU Mackint, 

[iSff. Tlie MicTig-lie MiacliiTie is constructed 
after the Gramme principle by The McTighe Electric Light 
and Manufacturing Company, of Pittsburgh, Pa. It is 
shown in Fig. 146. It varies from the Gramme machine in 
details of construction which possess novelty and utility. 
The field-magnet has but two limbs, which are vertical 5 
and their conjoined or consequent poles are placed at right 
imgles to them, so that the line of neutrality on which the 
brushes impinge upon the collector is at right angles to the 
line joining the poles and on the same plane with the neu- 
tral magnetic line of the magnetic cores. This construc- 
tion secures a very compact machine, which occupies but 
Binall floor space. It is claimed by the inventor that '* this 
arrangement allows the current in the inducing coils to 
directly induce magnetism in the pole-pieces, and as a con- 
sequence there are absolutely no lines of force branching 
out externally from the pole-pieces, but all are concentrated 
and directed inwardly, producing an exceptionally intense 
field of force for the armature." 



256 DTNAMO-EL£CTBIC MACHINES, 

Fw. 146. 




rke McTijihe Machine, 



The armature-core is built up of a number of incomplete, 
flat, sheet-iron rings, of the form shown in Fig. 148. The 
gap, by reason of which the ring is called incomplete, is of 



CONTINUOUS CUREBNT MACHINES. 



257 



a size to allow the passing of a bobbin. Fig. 150, edgewise 
through the gap. After placing side by side the desired 
number of rings, with their gaps forming one channel line. 



Fio. 147. 




McTighg ArmuUurt Core, 

the requisite number of bobbins are threaded on the ring, 
and then the several numbers of the ring are moved to or 
fro, imtil the gaps are distributed over the circumference. 
This makes, substantially, within the bobbins a complete 
iron core, such as is shown without the bobbins in Fig. 147, 
and with the two brass spiders which serve to support the 



Fio. 148. 




InoinpUtc Ring, 



core and bobbins. The whole constitutes the armature, 
placed concentric with the shaft. Fig. 149 is a section of 



258 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



the armature, showing the bolts which pass through the 
holes shown in .the ring, Fig. 148, and serve to firmly bind 
the whole together. The spiders are well keyed to the shaft. 
The bobbins, one of which is shown by Fig. 150, are 
wound in a channelled mould of sectoral form, so that each 







bobbin is a true section having the desired number of 
degrees of the ring forming the total number of bobbins. 
In this way the coils may be more easily and uniformly laid, 
with greater certainty of perfect insulation. In case of 



CONTINUOUS CUEEBNT MACHINES. 



259 



damage to any bobbin of the armature, it may be removed 
and replaced by another in a short time. Each bobbin has 
its convolutions securely tied together, and the whole is 
securely boimd by a wrapping of strong tape for protection. 



Fio.160. 




The collector is shown in section in Fig. 161. It is made 
up of the same number of segments as there are bobbins in 
the armature, and each has the form shown in Fig. 152. 
Each segment is cut from a, bar of copper or bronze having 
like segmental cross-section. The two semi-circular re- 



Fi6. 151. 




Section of Collector, 



cesses shown in the ends are then milled, so as to leave a 
thin web on one side. The strip carrying the screw-clamp 
ghown in Fig. 152, is then riveted on it. The screw-clamps 



260 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

serve to bind the wires from the bobbins into good electrical 
connection. 

The two disk-shaped heads of the collector have circular 
grooves turned in them, into which rings of insulating 
material are pressed. These are shown in section by the 
semicircular dark spaces in Fig. 151. Radial cuts are made 



Fio. 168. 



1 



ColUctor Sfgm^ni, 

across these rings to receive the webs left on the segments, 
so that when in position they will be equally spaced around 
the circle. In making up the collector, one head is laid on 
the bench, and the segments are placed in the radial cuts, 
and then the other head is put on with its cuts admitting 
the webs of the upper ends of the segments. The whole is 
then put on the shaft and fastened in place by jam-nuts, as 
shown by Fig. 161. It is usual to place between the seg- 
ments strips of asbestus board cut of the proper shape to 
allow their retention, though the collector may be used 
without these. 

The manufacturers furnish the following tabulated state- 
ment of the size and performance of one of their machines : 

Width 15 inches. 

Length 20 

Height 16.5 * ' 

Weight 250 pounds. 

Wire on Field Magnet 62 *' 

Wire on Armature 18 " 

Resistance of Field Coils 1.6 ohms. 

*• Armature Coils 1.6 '* 

Diameter " " 8 inches. 



coNTivrroufl cubbent machines. 261 

Botations of Armatnre per minute 1500 

Besifltance, external, including 8 lamps 15.2 oluns. 

Electromotive Force (mean). 185 volts. 

Current intenaitj 10 amperes. 

Percentage uJalized in 8 arc lights. 82 per cent. 

Horse-po^ivier. 8.1 

Our own equations are C x iJ = 1520 ; ^ifff- = 2.037 h. p. ; 
t^ == 66 per cent, utilized in lamp circuit. 

For incandescent lighting, a machine of the above size 
and weighty suitably wound, gives 24 sixteen-candle-power 
lamps for an expenditure of 3 horse-power. — ^K.] 

SG.m The Edison-Oramnie IMEacliiiie. 

Mr. Edison has devised a massive winding for a Gramme 
armature, for use where currents of great intensity and low 
tension are desired. This armature may be used in any 
cylindrical magnetic field. 

The object in view is such an improvement upon electri- 
cal generators and engines of the Gramme type that the 
inactive portions of the bobbin will have an exceedingly 
low resistance, so that the internal resistance of the machine 
will be reduced to the minimum. This is accomplished by 
forming the bobbin-coils of bars which extend on the out- 
Bide of the ring parallel with the axis of rotation, and of 
plates on the inside of the ring, the bars and plates being 
connected to produce a continuous bobbin by radial end- 
bars. The alternate bars or coils are connected with col- 
lector-bars. The plates which are the main inactive portion 
of the bobbin have a very low resistance. 

Fig. 153 is a perspective view of a portion of the arma- 
ture, and Fig. 154 a cross-section of the armature. 

A is the ring of the armature. 

B represents the exterior bars. 

C represents the interior plates, which are preferably 
beveled, as shown, and are placed at an angle to the axis of 



262 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



Fkos. 158 and 154. 




EduoH-Gramme Armaiitrt, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



263 



Fetation, in order to form, with the exterior bars B and 
radial end-bars D, a continuous bobbin. The alternate bars 
D at one end of the armature are connected with bars E, 
which form or are connected with the bars of the collector- 
cylinder. 

Each exterior bar A may be made in one piece, with the 
two radial-bars D at its ends, and the collector-bars E may 
be formed by bending the ends of the proper bars D out- 
wardly. 

Fig. 156 shows a variation devised by Mr. Edison of the 
Oramme machine. The large ring d and / is rotated on the^ 



Fie. 155. 



Fig. 156. 




Editon PoU-piece. 



Edison Machine, 



axis a. It is thus passed through a north-field and then a 
south-field, as at w and s. The cross-section of one of the 
poles is shown by Fig. 155, in which c is one of the spokes^- 



'264 DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 

•of the armature ; d is the core or ringy and n the pole-piece. 
- The bobbins are successively cut out and cut in to circuit 
only in the neighborhood of the poles. During the remain- 
der of each rotation they are idle, for cooling purposed. — K,] 

ST'. lieficiencies of* the Grramme IMCa- 
eliiiie. With all the advantages of the Oramme arma- 
ture machines which we have described, and which make 
them superior to the older machines, especially in respect 
to the absence of the commutator, they have certain disad- 
T-antages, which are in the main due to the construction of 
the armature. The imperfections mainly relate to the com- 
paratively small efficiency of the copper wire used in the 
armature, and in the heating of the artnature and the elec- 
tro-magnets. 

From what we have said about the inductive action of 
the stationary magnet poles upon the bobbins'of the arma- 
ture rotating between them, it will be seen that this action 
takes place almost exclusively on the outer side of the wire 
convolutions, as they are the only portions which are 
exposed to the magnetic field of the stationary poles. The 
inner portions of the wire within the iron core of the arma- 
ture remain fi^lmost totally unaffected by the induction. 

Therefore it will be seen that only a comparatively small 
T)ortion of the wire is situated at any time where it receives 
any of the inductive influence of the stationary poles, as the 
<;ore of the armature acts only as a magnetic shield, pro- 
tecting the inner portion of the coils from induction. 

The heating of the machine results from several causes. 
Primarily, the current which flows through the conductor 
generates heat in it as a result of overcoming the resistance. 
It is known that thin platinum or iron wires placed in a cir- 
•<;ui1t carrying a strong current ace heated to a white heat. 
It, as well as the voltaic arc, which gives the highest heat 
when excited by the action of a strong galvanic battery, is 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 365 

only generated by the resistance which the molecules offer 
in both cases to the passage of the current. 

In the Gramme machine^ as in every other closed circuit, 
all the wires through which the current passes must, there- 
fore, be heated in proportion to the quantity of the current, 
and in inverse proportion to the size of the wire. The ele- 
vation of temperature in a Oram^me armature is increased 
because no current at all is generated in a large part of the 
wires, and the bobbins near the neutral magnetic line gen- 
erate only very weak currents. 

Another source of continuous creation of heat is in the 
•continuous movement of the magnetic poles generated in 
the core of the ring, so that the molecules of the core are 
kept in continual motion during the working of the ma- 
chine, and a part of this molecular motion exhibits itself as 
magnetism, and another part as heat. Besides this, each 
part of the ring, during rotation, changes its magnetism 
progressively from north to south and south to north. This 
reversing molecular action exhibits itself as heat. If the 
ring \^ rotated a thousand times per minute this change of 
polarity must take place in ^^ of a minute. This time is 
too short for reversal of magnetism, consequently in all 
portions the molecular motion existing is in conflict with the 
contrary kind which seeks existence, and not only gener- 
ates a harmful weakening of the poles, but also a mode of 
molecular motion which manifests itself as heat. Gramme 
•endeavors to obviate the last named deficiency by not mak- 
ing the iron core of the armature massive, but building it 
up out of a single well-annealed iron wire, as shown in 
figure 126. In this way the magnetic laziness, so to speak, 
is partially, but not entirely, overcome. 

If we add to these causes of heating those resulting 
from the heat due to those currents which are always gen- 
erated in metallic conductors when moved in a magnetic 
field (Foucault currents ; heating of a copper plate rotated 
12 



266 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

in a magnetic field, etc.)^ it is easily understood that in 
large machines which contain many convolutions, and 
whose electro-magnets contain a great power in conse- 
quence of the great rapidity of rotation of the armature, 
the bobbin wire can even be heated to a white heat, or to 
the degree of carbonization of the insulating materials. 

The dimensions which can be given to dynamo and mag- 
neto-electric machines are limited by the relation between 
these heating effects and the quantity of current desired. 
If all the mechanical power expended in the rotation of the^ 
armature could be excluciively converted into magnetism 
and electricity, this class of machines could be made of the 
largest dimensions and would possess unlimited power for 
the production of magnetism and of electric currents. [Dr. 
Schellen's theory is here at fault, as is practically shown in 
the machines of Mr. Edison, Weston and others herein 
illustrated atad described. — K.] 

The recognition of these deficiencies in the Oramme ma- 
chine, and in fact in all other dynamo-electric machines, 
have given rise to various constructions calculated to avoid 
them, which are considered in the following pages. 

Oramme has worked with untiring zeal at perfecting his 
machines. That his efforts meet with success is shown by 
the report of the Chatham Military Engineering School, 
which enumerates the advantages and disadvantages of 
his later machines in the following manner : 

" Gbamme Model D. 

" Advantages : 

" 1. This current generator yields a considerably more 
powerful light than any other machine tested. 

*' 2. The attendance on the machine may be entrusted ta 
less experienced persons without fear that the wires will 
suffer through heating, or from the formation of sparks. 

"3. During continuous operation for six hours, under 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 267 

the same conditions as with two Siemens machines, and 
i^th a current of 58.6 Weber Sy the temperature of the wires 
rose 7V F. After six hours' continuous operation with a 
current of 83.6 Webers the temperature rose 110'' F. Under 
the same conditions, the temperature of the armature of a 
Siemens machine rose 110"" F, and that of the electro-mag- 
nets SS'' F, with the current of 55 Webers. 

" The electro-magnets of the Oramme machine get hotter 
than does the armature. Therefore, the maximum tem- 
perature can be observed without stopping the machine. 

'^4. Absence of sparks. The formation of sparks at the 
brushes is very slight and often imperceptible. Conse- 
quently, the wear of the collector and brushes is very small. 
The brushes are easily placed in their proper position, and 
are so arranged that when necessary, they can be moved in 
either direction longitudinally. 

"5. Simplicity. Since the machine has but few parts, 
the connections are easily made and followed. 

" 6. In the light arc, with a conductor having a resist- 
ance of 0.498 OhmSy 47.8 per cent, of the work was utilized. 

"7. The number of rotations (500) is less than that of 
either the two medium-sized Siemens and less than half 
that of the Oramme Model C (1200) ; consequently, the wear 
of the machine and of the moving parts is less. 

" Disadvantages : 

" The cost of a Oramme machine. Model D, is £360 ster- 
ling, about one and a half times as mu^h as that of the two 
Siemens machines. 

'' Gramme Model C. 

" Advantages : 

** 1. The machine can be run by workmen having little 
experience, without fear of injury to the wires by overheat- 
ing. In this respect this current generator excels all other 
apparatus tested. 



268 DTNAMO-BLBOTBIC MACHINES. 

'^2. During continuous operation for six hours, and. 
under the same conditions as with the two Siemens and the 
GHramme Model D, with a quantity of currrent of about 
83.5 Weber 8 y the temperature of the wires rose but 30** F. 

"3. Absence of sparks. Same as advantage 4, of 
Gramme Model D. 

*'4. With a resistance of 0.627 Ohms in the external con- 
ductor, 54.48 per cent, of utilizable work was obtained. 

"5. Simplicity. See advantage 5, of Oramme^s D. 
Compactness, see advantage 7, of Gramme D. 

*' The cost of this machine is £240 sterling. Nearly the 
same as that of the two Siemens machines of medium size, 
with collector. When necessary, the current can be divided 
by a Blandy commutator for the production of two lights. 

' ' Disadvantages ; 

** 1. The quantity of light obtained is only 19500 candles. 
About the same as that of the two Siemens, and about 30 
per cent, less than that of Gramme D, with 500 rotations. 

"2. The great speed of 1200 rotations per minute might 
cause considerable wear of the machine and moving parts. 

" Two A Gramme Placed in Connection. 

" Advantages : 

"1. Cheapness. The cost of these two current gen- 
erators, with collector, is only £170 sterling. 

'* 2. These current generators are heated about the same 
as the other Grammy machines. 

"3. Absence of sparks. Same as advantage 4, of 
Gramme D. 

" 4. By using these current generators singly, two lights 
can be produced. 

" Disadvantages : 

" 1. The quantity of light yielded by these generators, 
which is about 18800 candles, is insuflScient for military 
purposes. 



CONTINXTOXTS CURRENT MACHINES. 26a 

" 2. When these generators are operated in connectionjr 
reversion of the magnetism easily occurs, causing great 
interruptions and loss of time/' (See Section 43, for the 
verdict of the same commission on the Siemens machine.) 

[Much has been written, pro and con, on the Granmie 
Armature. 

The theory that the core acts simply as a magnetic shield 
is not tenable. 

That it may so act to a certain extent we do not deny, 
nor do we deny that the portion of the circuit external to 
the core, between that and the pole-pieces, is more strongly 
affected by induction. But it is evident to all who will 
consider the matter that the progressive movement of the 
magnetic poles of the ring, during rotation, must affect the 
internal and external wires alike; in the same manner as 
the movement of magnetism in any electro-magnetic core 
induces electric currents in all parts of its coils. — K.] 

SS« Feints T>;y'i:iamo - Electric j\Ia- 
eliiiie. The disadvantage which has been mentioned, 
that the poles of the electro-magnets act only upon the outer 
portion of the wire coils of the armature of the Gramme 
machine, while the inner parts are almost entirely uninflu- 
enced, acting merely as resistance, is avoided in a great 
measure in this machine, which is made in Stuttgart. It is 
to be remarked, however, that SchuckerVs flat-ring machine 
was made much earlier than this was. This machine is 
constructed so that the wires are arranged in such relation 
to the poles that nearly their whole length is subjected to 
the action of the magnets. Fig. 157 shows a longitudinal 
section of one of these machines, and Fig. 158 a perspective 
view of the same. 

The cylindrical-shaped ring B R is composed of a great 
number of very thin iron rings, superimposed and insulated 
from one another. The wire coils are placed upon it as in. 



:270 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the Grain me machine. It is fastened by means of screws 
and nuts to the brass spider S S, the hub of which is tightly 
keyed upon the shaft which is rotated by the pulley J. The 



Pio. 157. 




ftins Dynamo- Electric j//«*c.»i..c-. 

ends of the wire coils pass through insulated holes in the 
arms of the spider to the current-collector C, placed some- 
what outside of the frame, so as to be easily attended. 

The iron cores of the electro-magnets E E have their 
poles at M and M', which are made to nearly surround the 
ring, as in the Gramme machine. Polar extensions A A are 
provided, attached to the poles M M', and made to reach 
around the ring, so as nearly to cover the inside of it, as 
shown in Fig. 157, so that nearly the whole of the wire 
moves in the magnetic field. The effects which these ex- 
tensions produce can be seen by comparing those produced 
when the pole-pieces A A are in place, and when they are 
removed, so that the machine acts only as a Gramme, 
Fein claims that scarcely one-half of the quantity of current 



CONTINUOUS CURRBNT MACHINES. 



271 



is yielded by the machine when these pole-extensions are 
removed. ^ 

Siemens & Halske, as well as Schuckerty sought to avoid 
the disadvantage imder cbnsideration in another manner. 
They both tried to use a flat ring instead of a cylindrically 
shaped one, and rotate such an armature between the poles 
of two electro-magnets placed so as to act inductively on 
both sides of the ring at the same time. Siemens & Halske 




Fein's Dynamo- Electric Machine. 

built a machine after this plan in the year 1875. They did 
not, however, attempt further developments in that direc- 
tion, but turned their attention to a construction which 
appeared more advantageous. Sigmund Schuckert, how- 
ever, continued to work at perfecting the flat-ring machines, 
and met with success, in so far that they were installed in a 
jiumber of places, and have proved very satisfactory. 



SO. Schixckert^s I>;vi:iaii:io - Electric 
Flat-Armatvxre IVIachine. Fig. 159 shows the 



272 



DTNAMO-BLBGTRIC MACHINES. 



Schuckert machine in perspective, and Figs. 160 and 161 
show it in longitudinal section and cross section, respec- 
tively. Schuckert endeavored to better the Qramme ma- 



Fxe. 169. 




Sckuckerfs Fiat-Armature Machine. 



chine by increasing the extent of surface of the bobbins 
forming the ring exposed to the inductive action. For this 
purpose he gives the armature a flat shape, and allows the 
poles of two electro-magnets to act inductively on both sides 
of the ring simultaneously. 

The frame is constructed of two cast-iron standards con- 
nected by wrought-iron cylindrical bars, which form the 
cores of the electro-magnets. This construction can be 
regarded as two horseshoe electro-magnets, which are 
joined at their like poles so that M M, Fig. 160, and M' M' 
are the cores of the electro-magnets. The flat, bow-shaped, 



CONTINXTOXT8 CURRENT MACHINES. 



273 



pole extensions S S and N N embrace more than two-thirds 
of the surface of the armature. Thereby the magnetization 
of the iron core of the annature aijd the inductive action 
upon the wires becomes very strong, because the action 
takes place from both sides at once. Thus it is that nearly 
the whole length of the wire on the armature is utilized. 
The currents are taken off from the armature as in the 
Chramme machine. 

The iron core of the annature does not consist of a meis- 
fiive piece, nor of coils of wire, but of a lot of insulated flat 



Pig. IfiO 




Sckuckert^s Fiat -Ring Machint^ Longitudinal Stction, 



rings of sheet iron, as shown in cross section, Fig. 160, the 
thick black marks there representing the insulating disks, 
or rings. The magnetic laziness of a temporary magnet 
increases in proportion with the mass of iron ; so with mas- 
sive iron cores a long time is requisite in which to change 
the magnetic condition. In the layers of iron having small 



274 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES, 

Pig. ini. 




SckMci\'t'i^i FJai-J^if/ji Afacuine^ Cross Section. 



F.a ica. 




Schuckert's Muchine for Ont Light, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



275 



mass, as in the core of the armature of this machine^ the 
progressive change of polarity takes place more readily, so 
that the maximum of magnetism is obtained, and the heat- 



Fio. 163. 




SckuckerCs Meukine /or Divided Light. 

ing of the parts completely avoided. As a result, we have 
the fact that there is a lessened expenditure of power for 
moving the armature, as complete use is made of the wire 
upon the armature, and all the magnetism is converted into 
•electricity. 

Schuckert fastens the ring upon the axis by metal arms, 
while Gramme uses wood, for the purpose of avoiding the 
disturbing action of induction upon moving masses of metal 
in the magnetic field. Such a metallic connection greatly 
adds to the steadiness of the machine. As in the Qramms 
machine, the collector-bars are insulated from one another. 



276 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



and are of the same number as the bobbins upon the ring ; 
their number, however, varies according to the purpose for 
which the machine is constructed, between 10 and 100, 
somewhat in proportion to the desired tension of the cur- 
rent. The connections and circuits are as in the case of the 
Qramme machine, but in place of soldering the segments of 
the collector to the junctions of the wires, they are fastened 
together by screws so as to be eeisily removed for renewal. 

Fig. 164. 




Schuckerfs Machine /or Galvanopiastic Purposes. 



Such an exchange is, however, only necessary after a ma- 
chine has been used for several years, as the wear is very 
small, and each segment is about 2 millimetres thick. 

As a rule, Schuckert carries out the dynamo-electric prin- 
ciple to the full extent in his machines, so that the current 
generated in the armature passes through the electro-mag- 
nets and the various materials in the outer portion of the 
circuit (carbon-light regulators, galvanic baths, etc.), all 
forming one circuit. As with Gramme, an automatic cur- 
rent-breaker is interposed in the machines built for galvano- 
plastic purposes, which automatically breaks the current 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINBS. 277 

and separates the electro-magnets from the circuit, if by 
any reason the current diminishes during the running of 
the machine, or at the time of stopping the same, thus 
avoiding the effects of currents returning from the baths. 

If the current must pass through baths of metallic solu- 
tions having great resistance, the electro-magnets, if used 
strictly within the dynamo-electric principle, would not be 
magnetized sufficiently. In such ceises, the machines are 
provided on both sides of the ring with a binding-post, and 
a connection is made through 
the same, so that a small por- ^®* ^^ 

tion, about one-third of the 
current, is passed directly 
around the electro-magnets, 
while the remainder of the 
current is employed for work. 

In other cases, two rings scAuc^^s dous^. rm^, 

are fastened on the same axis, 

as shown in the sketch, Fig. 165. These machines are pro- 
vided with connections capable of being utilized, so that the 
currents generated in the armatures can be run in series or 
in multiple arc, for tension or quantity purposes, or be used 
separately. 

This principle has not found much use, because the con- 
struction is so complicated. 

The proportions of the Schuckert machine and its 
efficiency can best be judged of from the following table 
(p. 278), which contains a compilation of the most impor- 
tant dimensions for some of the machines. Not all large 
machines are considered, but always the smallest, a me- 
dium, and the largest machine of the different types were 
selected for the purpose. 




278 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIO MACHINES. 



» O « 
oQ h t^ 

a OS 



2 £ 



S 1 



H 



S^J 



I 
I 






Q 
O 










o >occ 
THod 



• CD ^ 
C0 50 



S »o »o 



ill! W 



tH rH 1-1 W 



O) O CO Q 



8SS 

IC Od ( 



rH CO 00 



HMC^ '^j* 



J 
H 



CO 00 ^ 



00 00 00 



888 

rH CO t* 



(N^ T*< 



oo< 

T^ CO < 



>o 






EH 







Q 



C^CO (?i 

»H d d 



CO >o o 



oo o 



»0 kOC^ 
CO i* 



iH 50 G<J 



«^co>o 






0)10 09 

888 

odd' 



III 



www 



EH 

<! 


<! 



»OQC 

d r-1ldl 

*J1K>T(JM I 

9)«1ldJMJd 

J0(IdO0 









iHCOOi 



o©«»oi 



CONTINUOUS CURKBNT MACHINES. 279 

too. The HoehtiAusen M;a,ehiiies. These 
machines are made by the Excelsior Electric Company of 
New York City. They are made of various sizes^ to supply 
from one to fifty arc lamps in series. One has been made 
large enoilgh to run seventy lamps. One of the larger 
sizes is shown in perspective in Pig. 164. An excellent 
description of them has been written by Mr. C O. MaiU 
loux for The Electrical Worlds New York. His descrip- 
tion we here reproduce. 

''The Hochhausen machine is of the continuous-current 
description, and as its armature is of the cylindrical form, 
wound in sections looped together and connected to a com- 
mutator containing a segment for each section, it may be 
classed with machines of the Gramme-ring type, so-called, 
the prototype of which was the ring armature of Pacinnoti. 
Outside of this generic resemblance, however, there is but 
little in this machine which recalls any other. It is, in fact, 
of an entirely original design, as shown by the perspective 
view given in Fig. 166, and we shall find that it presents 
many points of dilfference in construction as compared with 
•other machines'of the same class. 

"The design of dynamo-electric machines generally con- 
iiemplates that the iron used to form the large electro-mag- 
net whose magnetism is to furnish the "magnetic field*' 
in which the armature revolves, shall answer the purpose 
of frame-work as well. Such is the case in this machine 
also, but the arrangement of parts is very singular. It is 
perhaps more clearly shown in Fig. 167, which represents 
an elevation of the commutator end. The frame-work is in 
reality an upright case, consisting of two thick plates of 
iron, cast in one piece with the base and top, and bent or 
•expanded outward at the middle, as if to make room for the 
armature. This, it will be readily seen, alffords a strong, 
rigid frame for the machine. To provide a bearing for the 
pulley end of the armature shaft, the two curved portions 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIG MACHINBS. 



of this frame are joined by a bent x-shaped arm bolted 
securely to each curved plate, as shown at the right side of 
Fig. 166. The bearing is at the center of this x-shaped arm 



Fig. Ifi6. 




Tk€ HockJkatuen Dynamo, 

which, it is plainly seen, serves at the same time to insure 
greater solidity in the framework. The bearing at the com- 
mutator end of the shaft consists of a strong -4-shaped 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 281 

Fio. 167 




Conn4Ctum4 on the Hochhausen Dynamo. 



standard separately bolted to the base-board or platform. 
This arrangement is preferable to the use of another double 
arm s' Jiilar to that at the other end, which, while it might 



^82 DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

add to the strength of the frame, would render the access tc 
the commutator less free than it is. To remove the armature, 
in case repairs or changes are to be made, it is only neces- 
sary to unscrew this standard and remove the pulley from 
the shaft of the armature, which may then be pulled out 
whole. The field magnet cores are slipped inside the 
framework and held in place by large bolts passing through 
the top and the base respectively. The two bolts which 
hold the upper magnet core are shown in Fig. 166. The 
pole pieces form part of these cores. 

" Mechanically considered, then, the design is very simple 
and quite perfect. The framework is cast, and but little 
work is needed to prepare it to receive the magnet cores, 
w^hich can be made separately and wound in a lathe. In a 
word, the construction of this part of the machine is ren- 
dered easy and cheap, while no desirable quality is sacri- 
ficed. Now let us consider the design from the electrical, 
or rather the magnetic, point of view. Theoretically, the 
best design is of course that which yields the strongest 
magnetic field with the smallest number of turns of wire 
•on the magnet cores, or, to be more exact, with the least 
expenditure of electrical energy. To do this, it is evident 
that the magnetism developed by the current passing 
through the wire around the field magnet cores must be 
utilized to the best advantage. That is precisely the object 
aimed at in this case. The current passing through a wire 
is capable of developing magnetism on all sides, and it 
would exert its maximum magnetic power on a piece of iron 
entirely surrounding it. In this case the lines of magnetic 
force due to the current pass wholly through the iron, instead 
of but partially. In the ordinary electro-magnet the lines 
of force pass for a part of their course through the air or 
other medium. To make them useful throughout their whole 
oourse it would be necessary to make them pass entirely 
through iron. If we place an iron cylinder around the coil 



CONTINUOUS CUBBBNT HACHINBB. 282P 

these "stray*' portions of the lines of force are picked up 
and become appreciable as magnetic power. This cylinder 
will in reality constitute another magnet whose poles are 
the reverse of those of the magnet core inside the helix. 
Thus the same current passing through a number of turns 
of wire is nutde to develop more magnetism. This is the 
secret of the efficiency of tubular magnets. Kow, if we turn 
to this machine, we can readily understand that the fiat 
plates of the framework, lying close to the wire of the field 
magnet, act as the outer portion of a tubular magnet, and 
thus appropriate the magnetic ojffect produced on. the out- 
side of the wire helices. These flat plates are after all only 
the same as the back piece which joins the two arms of an 
ordinary U magnet, only in this case the two poles of the 
U magnet are turned in a line toward each other instead of 
being parallel and side by side. It is easy to* see that the 
magnetic effect produced by the helices directly on these 
flat plates becomes added to that produced on the magnet 
cores themselves. 

" The armature is of the cylindrical or widened ring form. 
This is a form which we notice has been discarded of late 
years, and which is even disparaged by electrical engineers, 
as a rule, unless used with an interior magnetic field, 
which acts upon the portions of wire situated inside the 
cylinder. Armatures of the narrow ring form are almost 
universally preferred. Nevertheless, Mr. Hochhausen has 
retained the wide ring armature, and he assures us that its 
performance compares very favorably with that of arma- 
tures of any other shape and form. It seems quite possible 
to us, however, that both may be right. With a magnetic 
force of certain intensity it makes no difference, of course, 
whether all the lines of magnetic force are cut by the por- 
tions of the wire sections which are on the outside of the 
core, or whether one-half of them are cut by the portions of 
wire inside the core, since each section^ taken as a whole. 



284 



DYNAHO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



will cut the same total number of lines of force in the same 
time in both cases. There is this difficulty, however, that 
if the magnetic field is very intense, and if all the lines of 
force are to be cut by the outside portions of the sections 
only, they must be crowded or condensed together on the 
outside of the core, which may become saturated before it 
oan concentrate all these lines of force. Once the point of 
saturation is reached, the lines of force not concentrated 
are not useful. If the armature is so disposed with respect 
to the magnetic field, however, that some of the lines of 

Pig. 188. 







CoHTtructioH o/ Armature Core of Hochkausen Dynamo* 

force can pass around the margin of the ring and become 
concentrated on the inner surface of the core, which is not 
saturated, the crowded condition on the outside is relieved, 
and more lines of force can therefore be brought into play. 
It is, no doubt, the case in many machines that the mag- 
netic field is stronger than is needed to saturate the arma- 
ture core, and that waste of energy occurs in consequence. 
To utilize all the lines of force the armature must be con- 
structed so as to saturate less readily. This appears to be 



CONTINUOUS CURBBNT MACHINES. 285 

the case with the armature of the Excelsior machine whose 
•core is laminated. 

'^The armature is interesting of itself as a wonderful 
specimen of mechanical ingenuity^ adaptability, and perfec- 
tion. The core is sectional, and the troubles incident to 
winding the sections on a continuous ring are avoided. 
This armature core is the same as if made of a number of 
thin iron discs placed close together, with the exception 
that the discs are each made of four pieces. Two of these 
quarter discs are shown separately in Fig. 168, which repre- 
sents two of the four sections of an armature-core united 
together, one being partially dissected. The quarter discs 
are all punched alike out of thin sheet iron about one- 
sixteenth of an inch thick. The two denticulations at one 
•end are farther apart than those at the other. This is be- 
•cause there are two rows of holes in the flat transverse 
pieces into which they fit and by which they are held in 
place. In fitting them, the narrow and wide-dented ends 
are alternated. Otherwise, it would have been necessary 
to make all the holes in a row, thereby greatly weakening 
the flat piece. To give solidity to each section, there are 
three quarter-circle pieces of malleable iron, one in the 
middle and one at each end, all three held flrmly between 
the two flat transverse pieces by screws, as shown in Fig. 
166. The pieces at either end are rounded so the wire may 
touch evenly. To prevent the quarter-discs from touching 
«ach other, a hole is bored through every alternate one, and 
A piece of wire is passed through and bent. The lower one 
in the figure shows one of these wires. 

" The number of sections employed is sixteen. Mr. Hoch- 
hausen recognizes the fact that a larger number of sections 
would produce a more theoretically continuous current, and 
perhaps more economically, but the increased complication 
which the multiplication of sections involves is not com- 
I)ensated for, in his opinion, by the little benefit derived. 



^ k 



DYNAHO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



'^A marked advantage in this manner of constructing^ 
the armature is that the sections of wire intended for the 
armature can be wound separately in a mold-bobbin. Not 



Fie. Ifl9. 



On* of the Armature Bobbins 
of Hochhausen Dynamo. 



Fu. 170. 




Section of the Armature 
of Hochhausen Dynamo. 



only the winding is more easily done, but the chances of its^ 
being faulty are much diminished, and, above all, the insu- 



CONTINUOUS CUBRENT MACHINES. 287 

lation can be properly attended to. Fig. 169 shows one of 
these sections ready to be slipped on the armature core. 
The outside layers are protected by cotton, paper, or other 
material, and the bends are tightly wound with cotton 
cloth and painted, so that the section may retain the form 
given it in the mold. The ends of the wire are also looped 
and insulated. To place the sections on the core, one of 
the transverse strips is unscrewed, and they are slipped into 
place. Each core section of course receives four wire sec- 
tions. Fig. 170 shows one-half of the armature-core with 
its wire sections in place. 

"The core sections are connected to each other so 
as to form a ring by means of screws which join the 
contiguous flat transverse pieces together. The holes for 
these screws are shown near the ends of the flat pieces in 
Fig. 168. 

After two sections are connected together, the ends of 
the two flat pieces are rounded and threaded, as shown 
plainly in Fig. 168. There are four of these screw-tips at 
each end of the cylinder, and it is by means of them that 
the armature is mounted upon its shaft. For this purpose 
brass spiders are used. These tips pass through four holes 
in the circumference of the spider, but are insulated from 
the spider by bushings and washers of gelatinized fibre. 
Then by means of nuts the spiders are firmly secured to the 
armature. The circumference of the spider at the conmiu- 
tator end of the armature carries four square projections 
resembling the jaws of a lathe-chuck, into which the * com- 
mutator-disc ' (Fig. 171) is received. This is another very 
interesting feature of the armature. The commutator seg- 
ments are insulated from each other and from the shaft 
only by air-spaces and not by insulating fibre or other simi- 
lar material. It is therefore easy, by slipping a piece of 
card-board between the segments, to dislodge any copper 
dust, oil or dirt there, and thus obviate those short circuits 



288 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES 




between segments which sometimes lead to the burning of 
an armature section. 

''Each segment has a tail-piece disposed radially on the 
disc and screwed to it firmly. The disc, which is of slate 
or soapstone, has a small hole near the outer end of the 
radial portion, of each segment through which the wire 

leading from each connection 
between two contiguous sec- 
tions of the armature is passed, 
for the purpose of making con- 
nections to the connnutator. 
These connections are not 
soldered, but are made by in- 
serting the end under a small 
brass clip, which by means 
of two screws holds it firmly 
against the radial portion of 
For convenience, the commuta- 
tor segments are numbered in rotation. These clips are 
shown on the radial ends of segments, 7, 8, 9, 10. 

" This armature presents many advantages which will 
suggest themselves to electricians. Its laminated structure 
with free spaces between the wire sections affords easy and 
effective ventilation, by which the armature is kept quite 
cool, even when run for a long stretch. Another advantage 
is that the sections are all so nearly alike that the armature 
is quite symmetrical when 'strapped' with bands of fine 
wire, and from this it follows that it needs but little bal- 
ancing, and that it can be revolved closely to the field mag- 
net. It may be interesting to state here that the depth of 
wire on the outside of the core is around half an inch- 
rather more in the larger and rather less in the smaller 
ones. 

"For a No. 5 machine adapted for 25 arc lights, the 
depth of wire is ^ inch. The wire (No. 16 B. & S.) in each 



Collector of Hochhausen Dynamo, 



the commutator segment. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 289 

section occupies 11 layers of 22 convolutions each. The 
diameter of the armature is 13^ inches, only ^ inch play 
being allowed between it and the field, which has a diam- 
eter of 13J inches. The total internal resistance of this type 
of machine is 30 ohms, measured at rest between the bind- 
ing-posts. When supplying 25 arc lights through an aver- 
age circuit, it develops an electromotive force of about 
1,250 volts and a current of 10 amperes. ****** 

" In the last article we pointed out the effect of the sat- 
uration of an armature-core, and we intimated that the 
laminated form of armature-core in this machine allows of 
better utilization of the magnetic field in which it is re- 
volved. To explain this point more fully, we will say a 
word on the effects of subdividing the iron in armature- 
cores. 

''To secure subdivision of the magnetic mass in an 
armature, the core is sometimes made of fine iron wire 
wound in a reel. In other cases the core is composed of 
very thin discs of sheet-iron, which are separated from each 
other by a thin paper or a space. Now, so far as the elimi- 
nation of Foucault induction is concerned, the fine wire 
core is evidently the best, especially if the wire strands have 
been carefully insulated from each other. But so far as 
penetrability to the lines of magnetic force is concerned, 
the thin disc forms are better. This can be inferred from 
our knowledge of magnetic actions. If a molecule of iron 
is already polarized in a certain direction by the passage 
through it of a line of force, it evidently resists the effect 
of another line of force tending to polarize it in another 
direction. Its resistance is in fact much greater than that 
which its own coercive force would olffer, just as if the 
existing polarity had added to its coercive force. The 
stronger the existing polarity, the greater this resistance to 
change. 

• " The lines of force from one magnetic pole enter the 
13 



290 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

armature-core, and then turn to follow the direction of the 
circumference of the armature on their way to the other 
pole. Now if all the magnetic mass of the core is to be 
made useful, the outer portion or periphery of the core must 
not be permitted to be polarized by these lines of force to a 
greater extent than the inner portion, for it will soon reach 
the point of saturation, and the " magnetic capacity" of the 
armature — if we may use the term — will be limited even 
while the inner part of the armature could easily concen- 
trate and transmit more lines of magnetic force. But if the 
armature core is made of iron wire wound closely together, 
it is necessary for the lines of force to penetrate transversely 
through the outside layers in order to reach the inner ones, 
and if these outer ones are already polarized in the direc- 
tion of the circumference, they resist the penetration more 
or less actively, according to the degree of saturation. If, 
however, the armature is made of discs, the lines of force 
can pass between them, and they are concentrated on their 
lateral surfaces. The mutual repulsion of the lines of force 
themselves assists this process. It is easy to see, however, 
that if the space between the discs is restricted, the lines of 
force will be prevented from penetrating very deep. It is 
therefore an advantage to leave spaces between the discs, 
and to make them thicker, so as to receive the same mag- 
netic mass. This is what has been done in the armature- 
core of the Excelsior machine, and we can now understand 
why it is that this armature can dispense successfully with 
the interior field-magnets found necessary with widened 
ring armatures. 

''The device for holding the brushes and for moving 
them backward or forward, according to necessity, is very 
simple and good in the Excelsior machines. It consists 
merely of a large brass ring, B C (Fig. 172), held in place by 
four rollers, r rr r (Fig. 167), screwed into the pole pieces. 
This ring, therefore, moves concentrically with the commu* 



CONTINUOUS CURBENT MACHINES. 291 

tator, and when it is moved the position of the brushes B B 
(Fig. 167) is Varied. When the position is to be reflated by 
hand, a suitable insulated handle is attached to this ring ; 
but when the regulation is accomplished automatically by 
means of the motor, to be described, then the ring is pro- 
vided with fine gear for a portion qt its circumference at 
the right-hand side, as shown in Fig. 166. 

"Each brush holder is double, so that there are two 
brushes on each side of the commutator. These brushes 
do not touch the commutator side by side, but one is placed 
a little in advance of the other, the space between being 
equal to about one segment. The function of the second 
brush thus electrically connected to the regular brush is to 
short-circuit each section in turn for an instant, just as it 
passes the neutral point in the magnetic field. It is well 
known that each section of wire in a Gramme armature 
constitutes an idle resistance for a moment in each revolu- 
tion, that is to say, while it is passing over the neutral point, 
at which time it is not contributing its share to the current. 
The idea of using two brushes is to short-circuit this idle 
section and thus reduce the internal resistance. Where the 
sections are so few and so large (comparatively) as in the 
Excelsior machines, a device of this nature would seem to 
be desirable. 

"A very important device applied to the Excelsior ma- 
chines is the switch used to put the current on the external 
circuit or take it olff without giving rise to injurious sparks. 
It is the handle of this switch which is shown at the left in 
Fig. 166. Its operation will be readily understood from 
Fig. 167. The principle of this switch is simply to short- 
circuit the armature, and cut olff the current from the field 
magnets before the external circuit is broken. For this 
purpose the two metallic contacts d d are brought near 
enough so that the switch A may touch them both together 
when at 8. If the switch were turned the other way, the 



292 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

external circuit would be closed. As it stands, the external 
circuit is opened and the armature short-circuited. The 
Regulator: It is very desirable that the supply of current 
should remain constant in an arc light circuit, and it is also 
desirable that the power consumed should diminish when 
some lights are cut out of the circuit, and for this reason it 
is necessary to have recourse to regulating methods. About 
the easiest is to move the brushes away from the neutral 
point when less current is required. By this operation 
some of the sections find themselves "commutated" on the 
wrong side, and they counteract the induction produced in 
the sections on this side, so that the available electromotive 
force is lowered. This has the effect of decreasing the cur- 
rent in the circuit. If the brushes are moved back 90 de- 
grees from their normal position, then no currents will be 
collected, as just half of the sections will be commutated 
wrongly on both sides, and they will exactly neutralize the 
induction in the others. Thus it is possible to so adjust the 
brushes that any desired current may be produced. When 
the decrease required is very small, say one arc light or 
two in a circuit of ten or fifteen, this method is satisfactory 
enough, and the reduction in power required to drive the 
dynamo, though not as low as with other means of regula- 
tion, is yet nearly proportional to the decrease. But when 
the variation is greater, the regulation is not so economical. 
However, the majority of cases only need a small range of 
regulation, and this method of regulation is all-sufficient. 
''Mr. Hochhausen has applied this method to his ma- 
chine in a most interesting manner. The brush-holder 
ring is geared on a portion of its circumference, and a 
pinion / (Fig. 172), turned by a small electro-magnetic 
motor, engages these gears, causing the ring to turn, and 
with it the brushes. This small motor (Fig. 172) consists of 
a small ring armature revolving between two small field 
pieces F F, which are bolted to the upper and lower pole 



CONTIVUOUfl CURRENT MACHINES. 293 

Fio. ITS. 




Regulator 0/ Hockkauten Mackitu, 

pieces respectively, and derive their magnetism from thenu 
The speed is reduced by a large wheel e. This wheel moves 
a Bmall pinion, which again reduces the speed by gearing 



294 DTNAHO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

idth a larger wheel controlling pinion/. The geared por- 
tion of the ring B C i& removed in this fig^ure. 

" The regulation is effected by a device which, when the 
current in the main circuit is too strong, causes the motor 
to turn so as to displace the brushes, or causes it to move the 
other way so as to give them greater lead when the current 
is too weak. This controlling device might be an electro- 
magnet included in the main circuit, and acting upon an 
armature, controlling the connections of the motor circuit. 
The field magnet itself, however, is in reality such fi, mag- 
net. As long as the isirength of current rem /ins the same 
the magnetic power of the field magnet does not change, 
but the instant the current varies the power of the field 
magnet suffers a change, and an armature placed in prox- 
imity to the field magnet can be made to detect these 
changes. 

" The apparatus controlling the motor, and consequently 
the brush, is shown boxed up in Fig. 166, and with the cover 
of the box removed in Fig. 172. The armature is pivoted 
horizontally and is connected directly with the right bind- 
ing post, branch s' being given oflf at this connection, how- 
ever, to a shunt s", as more clearly shown in Fig. 168, in 
which in is the armature here shown vertically for con- 
venience. Attached to the armature m is a small vertical 
metallic bar & (Fig. 172), which, when the normal amount 
of attraction is exerted upon the armature, presses equally 
on two contacts c c\ from which wires 8, 9 (Fig. 167) lead to 
shunts R' E, and from which wires jp p also lead to the motor. 

" Starting at the negative binding post N, and following 
the circuit by the wires 2, 3, etc., we come to W, which at 
u gives off a branch (7) that goes to the shunt and past the 
motor. At v this line divides into two circuits thrc^igh E' 
and Ey through 8 and 9, to c c', to 6 to 12 to P. Both sides 
of the motor are of the same potential, and consequently it 
does not move. If the current in the main circuit falls. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 295 

then the retracting spring controlling the armature ?w (the 
tension of this spring being adjustable by a screw shown in 
Fig. 172, will cause the armature to fall back, and thus 6 
will be tilted until it leaves contact with c'. In this con- 
dition we find, on following the circuit from i% that the 
current is passing partly through E, 9 c', to c, through the 
motor which would be set in motion, and partly through R' 
through 8, to c. If there were no resistance in the coil R% 
then the motor would be short-circuited. As it is the motor 
receives a current duo to the difference of potential be- 
tween the two ends of E'. On the other hand, if the cur- 
rent in the main circuit were to have been too strong, the 
motion of the armature m would be such as to tilt c out r ' 
contact. On following the circuit from v now, it would be 
partly to E', 8, through the motor, to c' to 6, and partly 
through E, 9 to c\ and the motor would move in an opposite 
direction. This method of regulation is very prompt and 
quite effective. By way of demonstration of this fact, Mr. 
Hochhausen's assistant, Mr. Oswald, placed for us a large 
arc light machine on short circuit, by means of a short 
stout wire touching both binding posts. Instantly all the 
lights went out, there was a play of fire at the commutator 
for a few seconds, the motor turned at a dizzy speed, and 
then all was right again. The regulation was complete. 
It is seen that one of the branches from v always shunts a 
greater portion of the current past the motor. But the 
branch 11 to v itself does not receive all the current, a por- 
tion being shunted past through the branch 7, to shunt coil 
to 11. The latter shunt could be dispensed with, since there 
is always one of the contacts c' c completing the circuit, 
but its use insures the continuity of the circuit in case of 
derangement of the contact arm 6, or from any other cause. 
Moreover, with this shunt, the sparks produced when the 
platinum points c c leave contact are prevented. It will 
also be understood that by regulating the resistance of this- 



296 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

shunt the amount of current diverted through the motor 
branches, and consequently the speed of the motor, may be 
• regulated. 

^'Although this regulation is intended specially for use 
on series-wound machines for arc-lighting, Mr. Hochhausen 
also applies it with success to machines of the same build, 
tut shunt-wound, which the company manufactures for 
incandescent lighting* In this case the control of the motor 

Fig. 173. 




Hockkauun Eiectro^iating Machine. 

ccannot be effected by an armature subjected to the attrac- 
tive influence of the field-magnet, whose strength increases 
inversely with the current in the external circuit instead of 
directly. A separate magnet is therefore used. Besides 
this, the regulation of the current in shunt-wound machines 
is also provided for by means of a hand-regulator, by means 
of which the amount of resistance introduced in the field- 
magnet circuit is varied. 

"The resistance coils are looped between the contact 
segments, which are arranged in a circle, and form one 
continuous circuit. Connections are made from one bind- 
ing-post to the first segment on one side and from the other 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MAOJiNES. 297 

binding-post to the switch-lever. Thus, supposing the 
right-hand binding-post to connect with the first segment 
at the right, and the left-hand one to connect with the switch 
lever, then, as the switch stands, there are three of the 
resistance coils included in the field-magnet circuit. In one 
of the shunt- wound machines which we saw at the Excel- 
sior Company's factory, the switch lever of the field resist- 
ance regulator was attached by way of experiment to the 
brush-holding ring, and thus the same movement sufficed 
to adjust the brushes and regulate thd resistance in the 
field-magnet. 

*'The Excelsior dynamo-electric machines are made in 
types numbering from No. 1 to No. 6. When series- wound, 
No. 1 produces one light of 2,000 candles. As another ex- 
ample, No. 5 series-wound supplies 25 arc lights of 2,000 
candles (nominal) and shimt-woimd 250 incandescent lamps. 
The speed of the latter machine is 750 revolutions per min- 
ute. This speed is often increased for the purpose of sup- 
plying a greater number of lights per machine. The 
machine is so well constructed that a speed of 1000 revolu- 
tions can be maintained with safety." 

Fig. 173 shows one of Hochhausen's machines for elec- 
troplating and galvanoplastic purposes. This is a series 
dynamo, and of necessity has a polarity protector on it to 
prevent change of magnetism of the poles by return cur- 
rents from baths which have become polarized. A better 
arrangement is to have the field electro-magnet coils shunt- 
wound, as then it does not require protection of the kind. 

The Excelsior Company has recently completed a ma- 
chine of this latter type, which gives a current of 3000 
amperes and a difference of potential at the binding-posts 
of 3 to 4 volts. 

Fig. 174 illustrates a machine made after one of Mr. 
Hochhausen's earlier patents by the Amoux-Hochhausen 
Electric Company. It may be called the horizontal model. 



298 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



It does not have his improved devices and attachments. 
-K.] 



Fra 174. 




Horixontal Model. 



Ol. The Oa^na^llized-Rlng- -A.i:*iiiatiirer 
of Heini-icli. C. F. Heinrich has recently made an 
annular armature in a form which may obviate some of the 
faults which we have set forth. It is represented in Figs. 
175 and 176. The cross-section of the iron core is horseshoe 
shape, and is composed of either solid soft iron, or prefera- 
bly of iron wire. 

The conducting wire is wound only over the outer sur- 
face of the horseshoe shape. 

The poles of the field-of -force magnets are made of a 
shape concentric with the form of the armature, as shown 
at N N N S S S, Fig. 17G. 



CONTINUOUS-CURRENT MACHINES. 



299 



This form of the poles enables them to act upon a greaieT 
part of the conducting wire of the armature, the proportion 
of active to inactive wire being as 10 to 4. Furthermore, 



Fios. 175 and 176. 





HeinricVs A rmature. 

the inductive action is only upon the active wire, so that 
strength of current is gained by avoiding counter induc- 
tion. The observations of Deprez justify considerable ex- 
pectations of increased eflBciency from this machine. 

Finally, the canal in the core is useful as a path for cur- 
rents of air to circulate therein for cooling the conducting 
wires which become heated by the current ; and also for 
cooling the iron-wire core which becomes heated from the 
constant, progressive changes of magnetism. It will be 
seen that the iron wire and the copper wire are both in 
direct contact with the current of cooling air. 



O^. T>esiTioncl Cjr. Fitzjrerald's l\Ia- 
ohlne. Magnet faces similar to those described in the 



300 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



F108. 177 and 178. 

f 



preceding section are a feature of this machine, represented 
in Fig. 177. This modified form of the ring differs from the 
Gramme ring in so far that it is divided into several seg- 
ments. The magnet poles surrounding the ring are com- 
posed of several pieces. I^ and P 
are rings, closed in themselves, 
and nearly surrounding the an- 
nular armature, and which are 
fastened to the frame of the ma- 
chine by means of the lugs J J. 
To allow placing the electro-mag- 
net I in position, it is composed 
of two equal pieces, which are 
joined together in the vertical 
plane of the central line of the 
shaft F. 

As shown in Fig. 178, the wire 
is coiled about the electro-magnet 
symmetrical to the same vertical 
plane, in which also are the poles 
of the electro-magnet, above or 
below, as the case may be. Therefore the field-of-force 
magnet is a combination one, like two horseshoe magnets 
placed with like poles together. Nothing positive about 
the efficiency of this machine can be stated as yet. 

Uppenborn correctly remarks : ** We must emphasize an 
important consideration in reference to the building of the 
machine. The manufacture of the double curved electro- 
magnets will probably prove very difficult. Surfaces of 
this kind (the inner of the electro-magnets) cannot be made 
with such accuracy as seems desirable, or rather necessary, 
for this purpose. 

''To avoid the danger of the ring grinding on the mag- 
nets, which would soon render the machine unfit for use, the 
spaces between both would have to be made much larger, 




Fitzgerald's Ring and Electro-magnet, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



301 



to greater disadvantage of the inductive action than is the 
case with other dynamo-electric machines." 



Fio. 179. 




The GUlcker Machine, 



03. The Griilcher* I\Xacliine. The magnetic 
field of this machine is produced by eight magnetic cores,. 



202 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

of oval cross-section, which are arranged in two groups of 
four each, in such relation that their free ends face each 
other, while the other ends are fastened to two vertical, 
disk-like uprights, which carry at their centres the bearings 
of the shaft of the armature. 

The pole-ends of each two cores which are on the same 
horizontal line are of like polarity, and are connected by a 
TJ-shaped pole-piece, which presents its inner face concen- 
trically to the armature. The eight cores, by reason of 
these pole-pieces, form four magnetic fields of alternately 
north and south.polarity. The core of the armature is made 
of iron wire, as in the Gramme machine, and it resembles it 
also in other particulars. But instead of being entirely 
<50vered by its bobbins, spaces are left between them, which 
allow of active circulation of air while the armature is in 
miotion. 

The principal difference from the Gramme machine is in 
its having four magnetic fields. Four current impulses are 
hence produced, which require four brushes to take them 
away. By connecting the corresponding brushes together, 
the currents may be united in one circuit. The collector 
and brushes are made very wide, so that much resistance 
and the formation of sparks are avoided. It is the object 
of the inventor to produce currents of intensity of little 
tension. Therefore he has made the internal resistance of 
his machine quite small— it generally does not exceed 0.1 to 
0.2 ohm. The electro-magnets have their coils in multiple 
arc, and the armature has but few convolutions of heavy 
wire. 

The machine produces currents of 65 volts tension, and 
from 20 to 240 amperes intensity, according to size. 

[Gramme in his U. S. patent, No. 120,057, October, 1871, 
shows and describes machines having two, four, and six 
field-magnet poles. — K.] 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



303 



04.. Siemens-Ha.lske IMCa^g-neto a.xid 
Dynamo-Electirlc Cylixidei* !M!a.eliiiie« 
System v. HefYiei*- A^lteiieck. In the Qramme 
machines^ the iron ring with its wire bobbins is the main 
constituent. In the magneto and dynamo-electric induc- 

Fie. 180. 




The Rotating Drum Armature. 

tion machines, designed by Frederick v. Hefner-Alteneck, 
the Superintendent of the Construction Bureau of the 
establishment of Siemens & Halske, in Berlin, in March, 
1872, the ring was replaced by a drum which is encircled 
with wire. They may be provided with steel magnets, if 

Fio. 181. 




Diagram of the Hefner- A Iteneck Drum, 

working in the small way, and moved by hand through a 
crank ; or they may be in larger machines provided with 
strong electro-magnets, and be constructed according to the 
dynamo-electric principle. The frames and arrangements 
of the drum differ with the different machines, especially 
as to the number of parts into which the winding is divided. 
For easy comprehension, like parts are represented by like 



^ k 



304 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



letters in the following illustrations. Fig. 180 represents a 
cylindrical armature of the simplest kind. N N' represent 
a number of stationary strong north poles ; S S' as many 
south poles. Upon the axis C C is a solid cylinder of iron. 
A thin metal drum is securely fastened to the axis and is 
rotated thereby. 

This drum is wound with coils of insulated copper wire 
parallel to the axis. The stationary exterior magnet poles 
N N' and S S' act by magnetic influence upon the interior 

Fie. 18S. 




Ike LoiUctor Disk. 



iron cylinder, and magnetize it by induction, so that the 
space between the magnet poles and the cylinder is formed 
into an intense magnetic field. The wires wound, accord- 
ing to diagram, Fig. 181, upon the druni cross, during rota- 
tion, the lines of magnetic force passing through the 
magnetic field. The polar surfaces N W and S S' shown in 
the figure in vertical section, are bowed so as to embrace 
about two-thirds of the circumference of the armature. 
The currents induced in the wire convolutions on one side 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



305 



of the drum, pass through coils upon the opposite side. 
These currents attain their maximum force in the convolu- 
tions which are at the moment at the neutral line between 
the poles ; and the brushes are so located that they bear 
upon the collector bars at that line, as in the Oramme ma- 
chine. 

The collector is illustrated in Fig. 180, and by diagram in 
Fig. 182. In these two figures, N and S represent the north 
and south poles respectively. The armature illustrated in 
Figs. 180, 182, and 183 have eight separate coils, and this 
arrangement is selected for ease of description, though 
many more sets of coils may be used, the principle remain- 
ing the same. 

The ends e e. Fig. 183, of each of the eight wire coils 
form altogether sixteen ends, and these are led to the col- 
lector disk in pairs in a peculiar manner, to eight metallic 
sectors, a to A, Fig. 182. These sectors are insulated from 
each other. In each of these illustrations, the wire ends 

Fio.188. 




Diagram showing the Collector Connections, 



which have the same indicating figures belong to the same 
set of coils ; therefore, we may see that 1 is the beginning 
of the first wire coil, and 1' is the end of the same. This 
continues through 2 and 2', to 8 and 8'. The signs + and 



306 



]>tnamo-£:l£ctric machines. 



Fig. 184. 



— represent the direction of the current in each set of coils 
when separately considered. The arrow at N shows the 
direction of rotation. 

The currents induced in these coils, wound in this way 
upon the exterior of the cylinder or drum, are the result of 
the inductive action, the manner of which we have so fully 
considered in the case of the Oramme machine. The dia- 
gram, Fig. 183, shows very plainly the connections made to 
the collector sectors. The convolutions made by Hefner- 

Alteneck have the disadvantage of 
not being symmetrical, and conse- 
quently are difficult to wind. The 
more serious result (sparks at the 
collector) is due to the consequent 
absence of electrical equilibrium of 
opposite sides of the armature, and 
improper connections of the bob- 
bins with the segments of the col- 
lector. The machines now made 
have their armatures wound after 
another plan, which was invented 
by Frolich and shown in Fig. 184. The connections of the 
bobbins with the segments of the collector is symmetrical, 
and the serious defects have been thus overcome. 




IVindtng and Collector Connections 
invented by Fr(^lick. 



O^. The Siemeiis-Halslie IMag-neto- 
Electi*ic IVIacliiiie for* Small ^W^ork. 
S^^^stem of HefxieiT-A.lteiiecls: fox* Labo- 
ratoiry P^nrposew. We have mentioned in Sec- 
tion 37 advantages that hand-power machines have for use 
in physical laboratories and for lecture purposes. Siemens 
& Halske make machines of this class in two ways— one 
with a crank and cog-wheels, for man power, and the other 
with a pulley, for a belt. 

Figs. 185 and 186 represent in front and end elevations 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 

Fie.lSS. 



307 




SiemtnS'Haisk^s Machine for Hand Power, 
Fio. 180 




Siement-HaUkis Machine for Hand Power. 



308 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the machine for hand power. Fig. 187 represents in per- 
spective the one for mechanical power. The inducing mag- 
nets are fifty in number, of V shape, represented by M M. 



Fio. 187. 




Siemens^Halske's Machine for Mechanical Power, 

These magnets are placed vertically in twenty-five pairs, 
but in such a way that no pair touches its neighboring pair ; 
their north poles are all upon one side of the armature, and 



CONTINUOUS CUEEENT MACHINES 



309 



f he south poles upon the other. By this arrangement the 
fifty north poles and the fifty south poles unite to form two 
Aggregated poles. Soft iron shoes, or pole-pieces, are fas- 
tened at the poles of the permanent magnets, so that each 
encloses one-third of the armature. 

In Figs. 185, 186, and 187, the space between the polar- 
pieces JS N' And S S' is taken up by the wire-covered drum- 



Fio. 188. 




Siemens- Haiske^s Machine /or Tivo Men, 



armature H J. Its axis C C runs in the journal-boxes FjFg, 
and can be set into rapid rotation by means of the crank Q 
and the cog-wheels Gj and Gg, or by the belt and pulley G. 
On the end opposite the crank is located the collector pp\ 
Upon this collector a pair of insulated metallic brushes R R' 
press like springs, to take up the currents induced in the 



310 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



wire coUs of the drum armature, and lead them out through 
the clamps 2 and 3 (Fig. 187) and the wires L L'. 

In speaking of the production of the current in the pre- 
ceding paragraph, we have kept the magnetizing influence 
of the currents induced in the wire coils out of consid- 
eration. 

These currents are of such a kind that they, by them- 
selves alone, create two magnetic poles at opposite points 
of a diameter of the cylinder, and thereby cause a displace- 

FiG. 189. 




SiemenS'Haiske^s Machine /or Two or Four Men, 



ment of the poles induced in the cylinder by the exterior 
stationary magnets. If, therefore, the machine is required 
to deliver currents of the greatest possible strength, the 
connecting line of the two brushes must not be horizontal, 
but somewhat inclined therefrom. For this reason, their 



CONTINUOUS CUREKNT MACHINES. 311 

brushes axe not made stationary, but fastened to a yoke AB, 
which can be moved through a considerable arc of a circle. 
In this way the brushes may be caused to bear upon the 
collector at the points of greatest efSciency, during the 
rotation of the armature. This inclination of the brushes 
from the horizontal must be changed with the direction of 
rotation of the armature. Siemens & Halske also make a 
machine with crank, fly-wheels, strap and pulleys, to be 
put in motion by two men. See Figs. 188 and 189. 

These machines act as in the cases of the previously 
described ones. 

A machine of this kind has a length of about 44^ centi- 
metres (not counting the wheel and length of cranks), a 
height of 46 centimetres, and a width of 23^ centimetres. 
It has a resistance of only 0.5 Siemens' unit, and is equal to 
8 Bunaen cells in series. On account of the small resist- 
ance, it delivers a much greater quantity of electricity than 
8 Bunsen cells of ordinary construction. If turned by a 
strong man at the speed of two revolutions for the crank 
per second, a platinum wire 30 centimetres long and ^ mil- 
limetre thick, is easily brought to incandescence. Large 
Euhmkoff coils, as well as electro-magnetic machines of all 
kinds, are kept in regular working by the current of the 
machine. For general uses in physical laboratories and in 
public lectures, this machine is very convenient, always 
serviceable, a strong source of electricity, and is a substi- 
tute in most cases for galvanic batteries. If the armature 
be rotated by two to four men at the fly-wheel, enough cur- 
rent is generated for a light in a small lamp. 

&&m Siemens - Halske I>yiiaiiio - elee- 
trie IMaehine ior* AVorlcing- in tlie T^ai-g-e 
'Wstym System of" Heftier- A-lteneclc ioi^ 
Electric Illumination and Ciralvanic? T>e- 
position. We have previously mentioned that currents 



:312 



BYN A HO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



which are generated in metallic masses, when moved in a 
. magnetic field, are converted into heat if not carried away. 
(Foucault Currents.) In the previously described magneto- 
electric machines these currents are not to be avoided; 
they can only be decreased by making the cores of iron- 
^wire in place of massive iron. This difficulty is especially 
noticeable in the large dynamo-electric machines, and no 
equivalent useful effect is gained. This fact compelled the 
inventor, in machines made for electric illumination, to 
fasten the iron core of the armature so as not to rotate it, 
rotating then only the wire coils in the magnetic field be- 
i;ween the stationary magnetic poles and the iron cylinder. 

Fio. 190. 




Diagram of the EUctric Circuits of the Dynamo-Electric Machines of Siemtnt-Haishi, 

The construction of such a machine is more complicated, 
owing to the small space between the poles and the drum. 
Figures 190, 191 and 192 show the details of such a machine. 
Figure 190 shows in diagram the course of the circuits; 
figure 191 longitudinal, perpendicular section ; and figure 
192 an end elevation of the machine, a 6 c d is a drum of 
Oerman silver plate, upon the outside of which is wound 
the coils in a series of eight, as described in section 64. 
Upon each end of the drum a tube is fixed. Both tubes 
form the axis of the drum, and lie in the journal boxes Fi 
and Fg. Through these tubes an iron rod C C is passed and 
fastened to the standards Dj and Dg. The iron core Uj n, 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



313 



-s «i , is fastened to this rod. The poles of the stationary 
magnet enclose each about one-third of the circumference, 
as in the case of the other machines. The pole faces are 
concentric with the armature and are as near to it as pos- 
sible. 

The stationary electro-magnets obtain their currents 
from the armature, as has been explained in* the other ma- 
chines which depend upon the dynamo-electric principle. 
The poles are what are called consequent poles, common 
to both magnets. 

The armature is enclosed two-thirds of its circumference 
and its entire length by the stationary exterior magnets, so 
that it rotates in a very strong magnetic field. The cur- 

Fio. 191. 




Siemeru-HcUshe" s Large Dynamo- Eiectric Machine. 
( The Drum A rmature.) 



rents are taken off from the collector by brushes, as in the 
Gramme machine. For the working of such a strong ma- 
chine, steam power, or any other motor of uniform speed 
and power, is necessary. When the circuit is open, only 
so much power is necessary for rotating the drum as will 
overcome the friction of the journals. If the circuit be 
closed, however, for example, by putting an electric light in 
it, induction currents immediately arise in the coils of the 
armature on rotating it, due to the trace of magnetism in 
the stationary magnets. These currents further strengthen 
14 



314 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



the electro-magnets, which in turn induce stronger cur- 
rents in the armature, and so on, until the maximum of 
power and current is employed. This is only limited by the 
speed of rotation. The quantity of electricity and the 
power expended in its production increases rapidly, because 
each addition of magnetism brings with it a corresponding 
strengthening of the current. On this account, that is to 
say, because the rise and fall of current is so rapid, and 
due at the same time to rise and fall of motion, dynamo- 
electric light machines must be provided with reliably 
regulated motors, either steam or water, so as to insure uni-^ 
formity of working. 



Fig. 192. 



' I^JiyUlliyilttllLllirlllJiirMri, 

'^ppPilliilil^ii;^ : 



m^ 



mWwnwmWyW, 



!&!J.* ■■■■ tij I 




Siemens-Halske's Largt Dynamo- RUctric Machine, 

It may also happen in the use of such a machine for 
electric lighting, that by some cause the light arc may be 
suddenly extinguished, and the current thus interrupted. 
In this case the consumption of power is equally inter- 
rupted, and unless the steam-engine has a reliable governor 
its speed of rotation may become dangerously great. In 
order to avoid this danger, Siemens & Halske have con- 
nected with this machine an automatic arrangement by 
the action of which an artificial resistance is thrown into 
the circuit when from any cause the normally existing one 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 315 

has been interrupted. The arrangement and manner of 
interposing such a resistance is shown and described in that 
connection in Vol, II. 

The machine represented in Figs. 191, and 192 has a 
length of llOi centimetres, a height of 32 centimetres, and 
a width of 46^ centimetres. At a speed of 450 rotations of 
the armature per minute it gives a current which supports 
an electric light of 14000 normal candles, at an exi)enditure 
of six horse-power. The current is capable of making red- 
hot a copper wire of one millimetre thickness and 12 metres 
length. 

The machines of medium and smaller sizes, on account 
of simplicity of construction, are built exclusively with the 
iron cylinder core rotatable with the coils. 

Pio. 193. 




HiemetuHaUke Dynamo- Electric Machine. Horizohttd Model. 

Fig. 193 shows the Siemens-Halske dynamo-electric light 
machine (system v. Hefner-Alteneck) of another construc- 
tion. The electro-magnets have the plate-form, as in the 
machines of Wilde, Fig. 72. Metallic brushes are used 



316 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



to take the currents from the collector. A larger number 
of coils, or bobbins, are wound upon the drum than in the 
previously considered machines. The construction of the 
collectors are the same as with the later forms of the 
Gramme machine. 

The smallest size of these machines is 698 millimetres 
long, 572 millimetres wide, and 233 millimetres high. The 
drum is 388 millimetres long, and contains 28 sets of wire 



Fio. 194. 




Siemetu-HeUikt Machine. VertictU Model, 



coils or bobbins, and a collector of 66 sectors. The weight 
is 115 kilogrammes. The maximum speed of rotation is 900 
per minute, and the strength of light produced is 1400 nor- 
mal candles, with an expenditure of 1^ horse power. 

The middle size does not differ much in its construction 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



317' 



from the one just described. It is 757 millimetres long, 700 
millimetres wide, and 284 millimetres high. The drum is 
456 millimetres long, and is wound with 28 sets of coils or 
bobbins. The collector also consists of 56 sectors, against 
which the wire brushes press like springs on the parts 
which, in rotation, cross the line of neutrality between the 
poles. The machine weighs 200 kilogrammes, and with a 
maximum rotation of 700 per minute gives a light of 4000' 
normal candles, at an expenditure of 3^- horse-power. Figs.. 
194 and 195 show two vertical models of the same machine. 

Fio. 196. 




SicmeKs £-* Halske Machine. Vertical Model with Double Brushes. 



Two Siemens machines of medium size were submitted 
to comparative tests at the time of like tests of Oramme 
machines by the Royal English Commission at Chatham.. 
(See p. 266.) 



318 DTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

The following is a summary of the report of the Com- 
mission : 

'' Two medium-sized Siemens machines placed in series. 

"Advantages : 

"1. By using one generator, two lights can be produced. 

" 2. The strength of the light produced is much greater 
than with the other machines which were tested, excepting 
Oramme D and C. 

"Disadvantages : 

" 1. The easy heating of the wires when the attendant is 
not well acquainted with the use of the generator. Another 
disadvantage is that the armature becomes hotter than does 
the field magnets. 

"2. When the generators are connected in parallel, a 
reversion of magnetism easily takes place, thereby causing 
greater interruptions and loss of time. 

"3. An irregular operation of the lamp causes the for- 
mation of strong sparks at the brushes, and, therefore, a 
more rapid wearing away of the collector and brushes. 

" For these reasons, greater experience is necessary to 
make these machines work satisfactorily than is necessary 
with the Gramme machines." (See p. 266.) 

€17'. T>;v"iiaiiiL<> - Elective MTachine for 
the He filling- a^ncl P^vxrifying" of" l^feta^l^, 
\yy Siemens & Halske. (Fig. 197.) It embodies 
the same principle as that we have just described, only the 
number, size and manner of making the convolutions is 
entirely different. From previous remarks it follows that 
proportionately few, but very heavy convolutions are 
necessary. These are made of thick copper bars, of rectan- 
gular section. For instance, the cross section of each con- 
volution on the electro-magnet is equal to 13 square centi- 
metres. The cores have only 7 convolutions in each set, 
-and the armature is covered only with one layer, and the 



CONTINUOUS CUKRENT MACHINES.. 



319 



cross connections are made of peculiarly constructed copper 
pieces of correspondingly large section. The connections 
with the sectors of the collector are made of strong copper 
angles. The insulations between the several convolutions 



i 

i 




3i 

! 



I 
.8 

I 



are made of ajsbestos, which is incombustible. The capacity 
of the machine can hence be made so high that even the 
thick circuit parts may become very hot without endanger- 
ing the machine. Three of these machines are now in con- 
tinuous use in the Royal Smelting Works, at Oker, in 
Hartz. Each of them gives daily five to six hundred- 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Fio. 197. 




Mack tnt/or Rtfiniug Mgtal*. SUmtns *• Haltk^t. 



jcojttiwuous current machines. 321 

weight of copper, by the expenditure of eight to 10 horse- 
power. 

Siemens & HcUske also furnish smaller machines of this 
kind, which are intended for use in electrotyping and elec- 
troplating. They are correspondingly wound, so as to 
provide for the varying requirements of the art. 

[Mr. Edison has made for The Electro Metal Refining Co. 
one of his Z size of dynamos, for use in Keith's process for 
refining and desilverizing lead ; it supplies a current of 750 
amperes, of 6 volts tension. 

Fio. 196. 




WestotCs Light Machine. Old Model. 

Mr. Hochhausen has made a number of dynamos, giving 
^ to 4 volts and 3000 amperes, for electro-deposition of cop- 
per.-K.] 

OM. The TVeHton Ligrht IVXaehines made 
ty H. G. Mohring, of Frankfortron-Main, have come into 
xise of late, and though they somewhat resemble some 
other machines, must be considered as original apparatus. 
In the old model Weston employed cast and wrought iron 
in the manufacture of the electro-magnets. The curved 



322 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



pole faces (N N' and S S', Fig. 192) were made of wrought 
iron, while the cores within the coils were made of cast 
iron. (See Fig. 198.) 

In making these stationary electro-magnets the wrought 
iron poles were made up of bars which were placed at small 
distances apart in the mould into which iron was cast to 
form the cores. The ends of the machine were all cast iron, 
with slots at intervals. The armature was made up of 



Pig. 199. 




Wttton-Mokring Mack i me. 

disks having the form of the cross-section of the armature 
core, and were separated so as to allow the circulation 
of air between them. This arrangement, combined with 
the slots of the ends and the spaces between the bars of the 
poles, insured good ventilation, which precluded any exces- 
sive heating of the parts. 

These features are still better provided for in the new 
model (Fig. 199), which will be seen to have a slight resem- 
blance, in the arrangement of the electro-magnets, to the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 323 

Chramme machine illustrated in Fig. 135. There are six 
cores to each electro-magnet, so combined as to form con- 
sequent poles, one above, and the other, of opposite name, 
below the armature. The coils of the magnets are arranged 
in an uninterrupted series, and are traversed by the entire 
current produced by the armature, so keeping up a strong 
magnetic field in which the armature moves with a velocity 
of about 900 rotations per minute. 

Fig. 2C0. 




Tk4 New IVttton Mackin*. 

Those portions of the pole pieces which enclose the arma- 
ture are not of one piece, as in the Gramme machine, but, 
instead, consist of a number of tongues which in most of 
the machines vary in size and length, and are so arranged 
that their ends form an elliptical space on each side of the 
armature. 

Weston asserts that by this arrangement a greater imi- 
f ormity of current is produced, because the inductive action 
of the magnets upon the coils of the armature is not simul- 
taneous in all parts of the bobbins, but from the centre to 
the ends of the tongues, and vice versa, decreases and in- 
creases in quantity. This reminds us of Trouve's innova- 



324 



DYNAMO-ELEOTRIC MACHINES, 



tion. He endeavored to improve the Siemens armature by 
arranging the wires out of the parallel position to the axis, 
somewhat in the form of a sniral. 



F10.20L 





Multiple Arc. Collector. 



Weston's Armature. Old Model. 

In the pole-pieces the slots which divide the poles into 

tongues serve a double 
purpose : — They prevent 
FoucauU currents in the 
pole-pieces, serve to im- 
prove the ventilation of the 
armatnre and magnet-field, 
and thus guard against 
overheating. 

The armature (Fig. 201) of Weston^ s Machine has a very 
peculiar form, although when wound and in place it resem- 
bles that of Siemens, It differs widely from that in the 
construction of the iron core. The core of the armature is 
composed of a number of disks which are stamped out of 
very thin sheet iron, so that the change of polarity in them 
may take place very rapidly. Each of these sheet-iron 
pieces has somewhat the likeness of a spoked wlieel, which 
has on its circumference 16 protruding teeth and as many 
depressions. The core is formed by placing 86 of these 
disks on the shaft ; separated from each other, however, 
by small washers, so that air spaces are left between them. 
As the disks are so fixed that the toothlike elevations form 
straight lines, the whole resembles a cylinder which is pro- 
vided longitudinally with grooves having parallel walls, and 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



325 



equally distant from each other. The core so formed is 
finctlly finished by hemispherical end-pieces, the edges of 
which just touch the bottom of the grooves. Into these 
grooves, 16 in number, the insulated wires are laid. The 
coils are wound similarly to the Siemens armature, t. e., the 
wire is laid through the groove, thence around the shaft, 
and returns through the diametrically opposite groove. 
At the same time the peculiar construction of the core of 
the armature and of both end-pieces permits the circula- 
tion of air for cooling between the bobbins of wire. In the 
Siemens-Halske machines a slight heating of the wire of 



Fie. 208. 




TAf Core of tht New ]Veston Armature. 



the armature takes place, but in the Weston-Mohring ma- 
chine this is almost entirely avoided on account of the good 
ventilation. The armature is not only hollow, but also has 
channels numbering 576, through which the air can circu- 
late from the interior, as it enters from openings in the 
hemispherical end-pieces. The reliability and efficiency of 
the machine must, therefore, be excellent, as only very 
little electric energy is transformed into heat which would 
otherwise be lost for generating light, and because the 
wires cannot be destroyed by overheating the insulating 
covering. It may also be remarked that the Weston ma- 
chine feeds 10 Weston lamps, but with a current of low 



826 DYNAMO-ELECTBIO MACHINES. 

tension, which also tends to prevent overheating. This 
absence of excessive tension makes the machine safer to 
run, as the current is less dangerous to life. 

The collector (Figs. 198, 199, and 201) is similar in prin- 
ciple to those of the Siemens and Oramme machines, only 
diflfering in construction. Each segment is fastened upon 
the axis in a spiral form, and all of them are separated from 
one another by air spaces instead of solid insulating mate- 
rial. The spiral arrangement is for the purpose of insuring 
the touching of two segmer.js by each of the brushes at all 
times in every situation of the armature during rotation, 
thus insuring a greater uniformity of current. The brushes 
are placed diametrically opposite, and consist of ten or 
twelve flexible copper plates superimposed. These have 
such a i3osition relative to the collector that all the ends of 
the entire bundle press upon the rotating partfi of the col- 
. lector. 

The brush-holders, as may be seen in Fig. 203, are fas- 
tened upon a rotatable yoke, so that by altering their posi- 
tion circumferentially the strength of the current may be 
manually increased or decreased, as desired. The spiral 
arrangements of the copper segments of the collector is for 
the purpose of insuring the contact of each brush vrtth two 
of the segments at all times. Greater uniformity in the 
current is supposed to be thus obtained, but it must be at 
the expense of its intensity. In the later machines this 
arrangement has been abandoned, as Fig. 203 shows. The 
edges of segments of the collector are there arranged par- 
allel with the shaft. 

In order to prevent, as much as possible, sparks from 
breaking of the circuit at the collector, as many as 140 seg- 
ments have been provided. And for the same object, the 
winding of the armature is made after a peculiar plan. 

Fig. 206 is a diagram of one system of winding the arma- 
ture and connecting the bobbins with the collector. The 



328 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

Fie. 904. 




End Vie'w of Weston's Nrw Machine. 



plan is for eight divisions only, but the same system can be 
carried out with any larger number. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



329* 



Beginning at the point a, the wire follows the dark line, 
and at the point where the wire leaves one division for 
another, a loop is made connecting with a corresponding. 



Fio. 205. 




Armature ami Collector o/ the New Weston Machine. 

segment of the collector, as in Fig. 205. After eight 
divisions have each been in this manner provided with one- 
half the necessary convolutions in succession, but four con- 
necting loops will have been formed. 

Fio. 806. 




Diagram of the Winding of the Weston Armature* 

Then the divisions are filled with a second set of convo- 
lutions, forming loops in the same manner, which are 
connected with the intermediate segments of the collector. 
The two sets of convolutions are luiited at a and 6. 



330 



DYNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 



If we assume that the brushes touch the collector seg- 
ments, which are connected with the loops m m, the direc- 
tion of the current is shown by the arrows and arrow-heads. 
It will be noticed that the two neighboring wires, denoted 
by the dotted and continuous lines, respectively, have cur- 
rents in them of opposite directions. This is so because one 
of the lines is always in advance of the other in the plane 
of rotation. If the armature be covei'ed with the first set of 
convolutions, and the second set be placed over the first, 
they lie as shown in section in Fig. 207, which gives the 
two sets in white and black respectively. 

Pig. 807. 




Section through Armature^ ihowing One Method of Winding. 

By this method the upper set is longer, is moved nearer 
the poles of the field magnets, and has greater speed of 
movement. Therefore, the two sets are of unequal electri- 
cal value, and yield intense sparks at the collector. In 
order to avoici this defect, the divisions are wound accord- 
ing to Fig. 208, whereby complete electrical symmetry is 
obtained. The winding is often made after diagram, Fig. 
209, because it is more easily made. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 331 

Pie. 906. 




Siciton through Armature^ Second Manner of Winding* 

The arrangement of the collector connections for ma- 
chines of high tension is shown in Fig. 210. The armature 
has two entirely distinct and separate sets of convolutions. 



Fio £0). 




Section through Armature^ Third Plan of Winding, 



•332 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

distinguished in the figure by black and white lines alter- 
nately arranged. The sectors are connected alternately 
with the black and white sets of convolutions. It is in this 
way made impossible that the convolutions can become 
short-circuited and so injured, or that two adjacent sectors 
can become connected accidentally. The collector can be 
easily removed and replaced under the mode of fastening 
fihown. The two brushes are placed diametrically opposite, 
.and consist of 10 or 12 copper ribbons superimposed, and 




divided into three tongues by two incisions. They are 
placed at such an angle that all the ends of the ribbons 
composing the brushes bear upon the collector passing 
under them. 

According to ''Electrician,'' the large machine can supply 
current for 20 lamps at 900 rotations per minute. It absorbs 
14 horse-power, and produces a current of 18 amperes. The 
field electro-magnets are not in the main circuit, but in a 
derived circuit. The field magnet circuit uses from 3 to 5 
per cent, of the entire current from the armature. 

Fig, 211 shows a plan of mounting one of these machines 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



333 



on a wooden stand. The machine can be moved by the 
hand-screw while running so as to tighten the belt. 



Fie. 311. 




Mounting of Weston Mackint, 



[Figs. 203 and ^4 are side and end views of the Weston 
Uynamo Machine, of this more recent type. They illustrate 
a machine for supplying 50 arc lights. All the various 
sizes have the same general appearance and construction, 
except that in the smaller machines the side-braces of the 
pulley-bearing, shown at the right in Fig. 204, are omitted. 



334 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

While the Weston machine of the present type resembles 
in general construction the machine shown at the Paris 
Exposition in 1881, modifications have been made both in 
mechanical construction and electrical design. The frame 
has been considerably modified. The supports for the 
armature bearings are cast in one piece with the pole-piece& 
of the field magnets, which simplifies the construction and 
secures greater strength. At the commutator end, the 
armature-bearing is supported only from below, so as to 
leave the commutator open and readily accessible ; but at 
the pulley end, where greater strength is required, the 
bearirtg is supported by projections from both pole-pieces, 
uniting in the form of an arch. To prevent a closed mag- 
netic circuit between these projections, a wide bushing of 
brass is interposed, which carries the box for the shaft; 
and in the larger machines the bearing is braced by rods, 
shown in Fig. 204. The frame consists of four pieces : the 
two end-plates, and the upper and lower field-magnet bars. 
The frame is bolted together before the pole-pieces are 
bored out to form the armature space. The armature-box 
bearings and the internal surfaces of the pole-pieces are 
bored out at one operation, so that they are concentric. 

Figs. 202 and 205 show the construction of the armature. 
The sectional form of armature is retained, but somewhat 
modified, the grooves being much shallower than in the 
previous one, so as to bring the wire of the bobbins much 
nearer the pole-faces of the field magnets. 

The sectional form of armature is the most important 
characteristic of the Weston machine. It is built up of a 
series of disks of the form shown at^the left in Fig. 202. 
These are placed close together upon a shaft, but separated 
from each other by washers of insulating material about 
the thickness of the iron plates. The end pieces of the 
armature are made thicker, and have their outside surfaces 
curved, so as to prevent sharp bends in the wire of the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 335 

armature coils where it crosses the ends. There are tubu- 
lar openings through the armature core from end to end, 
connecting all the spaces between the plates. At each end 
of the core is a flange surrounding the shaft, and separating 
the coils where they cross each other at the end of the arma- 
ture, so as to leave an air-passage about the shaft. The 
polar projections extend out between the coils, so that the 
openings between the disks are left uncovered at these 
points. The disks are of such form that when combined 
with the shaft they form a nearly continuous path of mag- 
netic material between the two poles of the field, and the 
insulation of the disks from each other effectually prevents 
Foucault currents. 

The openings in the ends and in the periphery allow it 
to act, when rotated, as a centrifugal blower, to maintain a 
rapid circulation of air through all its parts. This prevents 
undue rise in temperature of the armature conductors and 
the increase of resistance due to heating. 

All these machines, both for supplying arc lights and 
incandescent lights, are shunt-wound ; that is, they have 
the field coils in a derived circuit. The resistances of the 
field coils vary in the different sizes of machines, from 
twenty-five to sixty times the normal resistances of their 
external circuits, so that only from If to 4 per cent, of the 
entire current is used for exciting the field. A very intense 
field is obtained by using a considerable mass of iron in the 
cores and pole-pieces of the field magnets and making the 
convolutions of the field coils very numerous. In this way 
the requisite electromotive force is developed with compara- 
tively few convolutions of wire on the armature, and its 
resistance is quite small. The ratio of the resistance of the 
armature to the normal resistance of the working circuit 
varies from 1 to 40 and from 1 to 110 in different machines, 
so the loss of energy in the armature varies from less than 
1 to 2^ per cent. Exciting the field through a derived circuit 



336 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

instead of through the main circuit is not only more eco- 
nomical in energy, but affords much greater facility of reg- 
ulation. 

In the system of incandescent lighting, in order to se- 
cure automatic regulation, it is only necessary to preserve 
the constancy of electromotive force or tension. As the 
lamps are arranged in multiple arc between the main con- 
ductors the resistance varies inversely as the number of 
lamps in circuit, so with constant electromotive force the 
current strength varies inversely as the resistance ; conse- 
quently the current strength varies ditectly as the number 
of lamps, and a machine of constant electromotive force is 
self -regulating. In a theoretically perfect machine, with 
field magnets of constant strength and uniform speed of 
rotation of the armature, the electromotive force will be 
constant and independent of variations in the resistance of 
the external circuit ; but as a matter of fact, this is not 
obtained, because any considerable variation in the number 
of lamps in circuit produces a decided fluctuation in the elec- 
tromotive force of the current. This is probably due mainly 
to the fact that when the machine is in operation, the polar 
line of the armature does not coincide precisely with the 
polar line of the field in machines as they are ordinarily 
constructed. This is shown by the well-known fact that 
the brushes have to be given a greater or less lead in order 
to bring them to the maximum points on the commutator, 
and the lead of the brushes varies with the strength of cur- 
rent generated by a given machine. The polar line of the 
armature is in fact determined by two forces, the induction 
of the field and the magnetizing effect of the armature coils, 
tending to produce poles in the armature at right angles to 
the poles induced by the field, and the actual polar line of 
the armature takes a resultant position, dependent upon the 
relative strength of the two forces. 

In the Weston machine the field is made so strong, the 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 337 

armature is so constructed and located with reference to 
the field, and the armature coils are so arranged, that their 
magnetizing effect on the armature core is hardly apprecia- 
ble in comparison with the inductive effect of the field 
poles. 

The core of the Weston armature is so constructed as to 
form a direct and almost entirely closed path of magnetic 
material betwe^ the field magnet poles, so that the arma- 
ture acts as a true keeper for the magnetic system of the 
field. The polar projections of the armature serve a useful 
purpose in this, as they bring part of the iron core into 
almost direct contact with the faces of the field magnets. 
The continuity of the iron is also important, as the lines of 
force of the field are concentrated on the armature core, so 
that the inductive effect of the field upon the armature is 
intensified. Only a single layer of wire is wound on the 
armature, so that the armature coils being brought almost 
directly into contact with the field magnets and moving in 
an extremely intense field, the requisite electromotive force 
is developed with comparatively few convolutions, and the 
magnetizing effect of the armature coils upon the core is 
greatly reduced. The number of convolutions in the arma- 
ture coils being few, large conductors may be used, and the 
resistance of the armature diminished. This is also impor- 
tant for the purpose of securing constant electromotive 
force, as if the internal resistance of the machine formed 
any considerable part of the entire resistance of the circuit, 
variations in the external resistance would materially dis- 
turb the ratio of external to internal resistance, and even 
with constant electromotive force the fiow of current in the 
external circuit would not be exactly proportional to the 
external resistance. 

Foucault currents generated in the armature core greatly 
disturb constancy of electromotive force, but these are 
effectu€tlly broken up and eliminated from the Weston 
15 



DTNAMO-ELBCTBIO MACHINES. 

machine hj the peculiar sectional construction of the core. 
With a machine constructed in this way, there is no lead to 
the commutator brushes. There is no sensible variation 
between the theoretical maximum points on the collector 
and the actual maximum points ; or, in other words, the 
polar line of the armature coincides with the polar line of 
the field. With the field excited either from a separate 
source or by a circuit derived from the binding-posts of the 
machine, the working resistance, or, in other words, the 
number of lamps in circuit, may be varied within very 
wide limits, without sensible variation in the electromotive 
force of the current. For instance, with a machine for 
running one hundred incandescent lights, if ninety-nine be 
instantly cut out, the variation in electromotive force does 
not exceed four or five per cent., and this produces hardly 
a perceptible variation in the light given by the remaining 
lamp. Within its working limits, the machine is entirely 
automatic in its regulation, without requiring the use of 
any special regulating mechanism, and as the regulation 
depends upon the law of operation of the machine itself, 
much more reliable and accurate results are secured than 
can be obtained by the use of any mechanism which acts 
to correct variations after they have occurred. 

In the arc system the problem of regulation is somewhat 
different, as, with lamps in series, the current strength has 
to be maintained constant and the electromotive force is 
varied. In this system the shunt-wound machine is to 
some extent self -regulating, as the distribution of current 
between the main circuit and the field circuit varies with va- 
riations of resistance in the main circuit. As, for instance, 
cutting lamps out of circuit and thereby reducing the re- 
sistance of the main circuit reduces the strength of field, 
because less of the current generated is diverted through 
the field coils ; but the regulation so produced is not perfect. 
Therefore, when these machines are used to supply arc- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



339 



lights, an automatic regulator is used for changing the 
resistance of the field circuit. This regulator and system 
"we will treat of in Vol. II. 



Fro. 211 




WtstorCs Two Hundred Incandesceut Light Machint. 

More recently, Mr. Weston has produced a two hundred 
incandescence light machine, based upon the principles 
just described, but varied soraewhjtt in its mechanical 



340 DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 

details and mode of winding the armature. Fig. 212 is a 
side view of the field magnet and a section of the armature 
within the magnet-poles. A is the wooden base upon which 
the standards B B are fastened. The electro-magnet coils 
C C C C are in a circuit derived at the brushes of the ma- 
chine^ and are of very high resistance compared to the cir- 

Fto.818. 







'*^ 



^-\ HI 



'•ll 



•'U^' 
t*^* 



a4* 






IVttton't Winding, 

cuit of the armature. D D are the consequent poles of the 
machine, E' is the shaft, and E one of the iron disks which 
constitute the cylindrical core of the armature. 

The plan of the winding of the armature is shown dia- 
grammatically by Fig. 213. This is for fifty-six collector 
segments. Beginning at any given point, as at a, the first 
convolution is formed by winding the Qonductor around 
the cylinder along diametrically opposite lines, bringing it 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



341 



up to the starting-point, then cutting it oflE and temporarily 
securing its ends. This conductor is designated by the 
black and white circles, numbered 1 1' respectively, the 
black circle indicating the position of the starting-point, the 
white circle its position on the opposite side of the arma- 
ture. The next convolution, numbered 2, is formed along- 
side the first in oxactly the same manner. To form the 
third convolution^ the core is turned half-way round and 
the convolution started and ended at a point one hundred 
and eighty degrees from the space next to coil No. 2. The 



Fia.814. 




JViston A rmaiur*. 

fourth convolution is wound alongside the third, and in the 
same manner that the second was wound relatively to the 
first. The core is then turned back and the fifth convolu- 
tion wound as was the first. The sixth then follows, after 
which the core is again turned for the seventh and eighth, 
and so on until the forty-third convolution is wound and 
temporarily secured. Then, instead of winding the forty- 
fourth coil from the same side of the core, it is started and 
ended from the opposite side. The core is then turned and 
the forty-fifth and forty-sixth coils started from the side 



342 



DYNAMO-BLBOTBIO MACHUTIBS. 



opposite to the Btarting-point of coil 44. The convolutions 
are then formed in pairs alternately from opposite sides of 
the core mitil the fiftieth coil is completed and the core 
turned for winding coil 61. After this is laid, coils 52 and 
53 are wound from the opposite side, when the core is again 
turned for each of the remaining coils 54, 55, and 66. The 
recesses being now filled, the several convolutions of con- 
ductor are joined together in the ordinary manner — ^that iSy 
designating the ends of any convolution as the ** first" and 
"last" end, the last end of convolution 1 is joined to the 



Fio. 21- 




Diagram of Weston Winding. 



first end of convolution 2, the last of convolution 3 to first 
of 4, and so on around the armature. The numerals in 
Fig. 213 are placed to indicate this system, and by following 
them the order of winding and connection may be clearly 
seen. The joints or loops, when formed in this way, are 
united to radial arms G, extending from the segments of a 
collector F. It will be observed that the number of coils, 
loops, and collector-segments is the same. 

Fig. 214 represents the collector end of an armature 
wound as we have described. E' is the shaft, F the col- 
lector-segments, and G radial bars which connect the wires 
with the collector-segments. Fig. 216 is a diagram showing 
the relative position of the wires when wound as we have 
described. Fig. 216 represents in outline one of the ma- 
chines and a lamp-circuit. It will be observed that the 
main current is taken directly from the brushes to the lamp 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



34a 



circuit, and that the current to energize the field-magnet 
coils is also taken from the same point. This is according 
to the shimt-dynamo principle. M N represent the positive 
and negative wires, L L L the incandescence lamps, and 
III the branches from the mains M N to the lamps. 







We have seen the circuit of one of these machines sup- 
plying two hundred incandescence lamps broken instantly 
from one hundred and ninety-nine of them without varying 
the light of the remaining one to any considerable degree ; 



•344 



DYNAMO-ELECTKIC MACHINES. 



this was done many times within a few minutes, and with 
the same effect each time. It is an almost perfect self- 
regulator. 

The following are the measurements of this machine : 

Weight 2836 pounds. 

Length 62.5 inches. 

Breadth 53.0 " 

Height 25.75 ** 

Resistance of External Circuit 0.4 ohm. 

** Armature 0.008" 

*' Field Coils 24.1 ** 

Electromotive Force 67 volts. 

No. rotations per minute 900 

i)iftmeterof Wire on Aimatara 0.24inch. 



Fis.817. 




Weston Machine, 



Mr. Weston has also invented an armature, and con- 
nections which we illustrate by Figs. 217 to 220. This 
armature is calculated to produce currents of low tension, 
but of great intensity. This must be the case from the 
«horf lenirth of the armature circuit. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



345 



Fig. 217 is a view in elevation ; Fig. 218, a sectional 
^iew on the line xx ot the armature ; Fig. 219, a rear view 
of the armature, showing the connecting piece and con- 
ductors attached thereto, and the shaft in section on the 
line y y ot Fig. 218 ; Fig. 220, an end view of the armature 
and section of shaft on line z zx>t Fig. 218. 

The machine is mounted on a base A', the field-magnets 
B B secured to a standard or frame. A, and the armature 
D mounted in suitable bearings in position to rotate be- 
.tween pole-pieces C C. 

Fm. 818, 




Armaiurt 0/ Wnton Machint, 



The armature is shoigm to consist of an insulating-hub, 
X, mounted on a shaft, E. On this hub a number of iron 
xings, F F, are strung and insulated from one another. At 
the rear or pulley end of the armature is fixed a copper 
-connecting piece, H, which is here shown as a circular plate 
with an annulus, through which the shaft E passes. The 
conductors G G are laid longitudinally along the cylin- 
drical core formed by the rings F, and at the rear end ai^ 
connected in any proper manner to the connecting-piece H, 
while these free ends are carried over to the other end of 
the cylinder, as shown in Fig. 217, and connected to insu- 
lated segments of a collector, K. This latter, as shown in 



346 DYNAMO-BLBOTRIC MACHINBS. 

Figs. 217 and 218^ consists of an insulating disk, to the face 
of whicli metal segments are connected, corresponding in 
number to the longitudinal conductors P F. With a collector 
of this description brushes d d are to be employed, which 
press against a number of the segments simultaneously, 
and thus connect the conductors joined there to a multiple 
arc— K.] 

OO. ]\l!a.xiiii's iM[£i,eliiiie of the smaller size, is a 
dynamo-electric current generator which is used solely to 
charge the electromagnets of la ig w ma chines of a similar 
kind. This small machine, in connection with the regu- 



Fio. 219. 

Pro. 280. 





Cross- Section* of A r mature, 

later, is illustrated by Fig. 221. At the first glance it seems^ 
to be similar to the charging machine of v. Hefner-Alteneck 
in the position of the electro-magnets, as well as in the 
arrangement of the magnet-field and the shape of the arma- 
ture. (Compare Fig. 194. We can also imagine a large 
machine, as shown in Fig. 193, set on one side, so as to give 
to the electro-magnets a vertical i)Osition.) The armature, 
however, has a peculiar construction, and is in effect a 
Oramme ring, whose length exceeds its diameter. The 
bobbins of the Maxim armature differ from the Oramme 
bobbins in the manner of winding. Four wires go to make 
up each of the 16 bobbins, and each wire is connected to a 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 
Fio. 981. 



34^1 




Mtixim Machin* and Regulator. 



segment of the 64 which make up the collector, so that a 
oinif orm circuit, nowhere interrupted, is obtained. 



348 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

In the light machines a collector is situated on each end. 
of the axis of the machine. If we number the bobbins 
consecutively, the bobbins of uneven number are connected 
with the first, and those of even number with the second 
current collector. The two circuits can be coupled at will 
for either quantity or tension, by means of a plug-switch 
which is attached to the machine. 

We do not say that the Maxim machine should give 
better results than its progenitors, the Qramme or Siemens. 
On the contrary, for the reasons set forth in Division 10 and 
others, the Maxim machine should give poorer results under 
the same conditions. According to our opinion, the merit 
in this machine consists in the regulator, which adjusts the 
strength of current to the work it has to perform. 

This machine was greatly admired at the Paris Expo- 
sition on account of the peculiar manner of automatically 
regulating the intensity of current produced by it. This 
regulator we will describe and consider in the part devoted 
to such apparatus. 

[This machine was, at one time, made by the United 
States Electric Lighting Co. of New York, but has been 
abandoned by them for the Weston machine. — K.] 

T'O. The EcliHon ]\Xacliiiie illustrates by its 
peculiar shape the originality of its inventor, although it is 
built on the same principle as the machines we have just 
described. Its peculiar form is due to the extraordinary 
size and shape of the field electro-magnets. 

The cores of these magnets are wrought-iron cylinders 
from one to two metres long, are wound with insulated 
copper wire, and are provided with massive pole-pieces of 
cast iron which nearly encircle the armature of the ma- 
chine. The use of these large masses of iron in the con- 
struction of the field-magnets is one of the characteristic 
peculiarities of the Edison Dynamos, and their high 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT BTACHINES. 349 

efficiency is due in part to this fact. This has been re- 
garded by others as a disadvantage on account of additional 
weight imparted to the machine without proportionate 
increase in the intensity of the magnetic field. The same 
intensity can be obtained with magnets of half the length ; 
but according to Edison's experience this practice is wrong. 
If the mass of iron bo reduced, a stronger current, i, e., 
more energy, is required to raise the field to the desired 
intensity, and this additional amount of energy must be 
continually supplied as long as the machine is run. In the 
other case the additional expense for a cheap material is 
only incurred once. This view seems to be justified by the 
fact that the Edison machines, for efficiency, rank among 
the best. [Recently Mr. Edison has reduced the length of 
the cores of the field magnets of his machines, and has also 
changed the shape of the pole-pieces so as to avoid sharp 
comers and sharp angles, with decided improvement in 
capacity of given weights of materials and in expenses of 
running. Currents fiowing in coils far removed from the 
polar ends of the cores they surround do not have the same^ 
efficient action upon the poles as do those nearer by ; and 
sharp angles and corners on magnetic masses are unfavor- 
able to a proper equal distribution or concentration of mag- 
netism. See Fig. 231.— K.] 

The form and arrangement of the magnet arms and 
pole-pieces can be seen in Fig. 222. They form a cylindrical 
magnetic field in which the armature is rotated as in the 
Siemens machines. The armature is shown in Fig. 223 and 
is constructed as follows :— A wooden cylinder is fastened 
concentrically on the iron shaft. Upon this cylinder a 
number of disks of soft iron are strung, but are insulated 
from one another by disks of paper placed between them. 
Over the cylinder thus formed insulating paper is wound. 
In the large machines copper bars, arranged parallel and 
longitudinally, are used for the circuit conductors. They 



350 



DYNAMO-BLBGTBIC MACHINES. 



have bands of wire wound circumferentially over all to 
keep the bars or conductors in place. The bars are insu- 
lated from one another, and from the wire bands. 



Fio. 9aSL 




EdisoM Machin* 



To connect these bars so as to form the continuous 
closed circuit needed, as many copper disks are put on each 
^nd of the iron cylinder as there are copper bars. These 
•disks are also insulated, and each of them has at diametri- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



351 



cally opposite points on its periphery two lugs for the pur- 
pose of connection with the corresponding bars. 

The disks are placed with their faces parallel to each 
other and radially to the axis, but with the lugs successively 



F10.8S8. 




Armature 0/ Eduon Machim, 



in advance of the preceding onec, so that they lie on a heli- 
cal line, as is shown by the ends of the bars in Fig. 223. In 
that way a continuous closed-circuit is provided. 




The several copper disks are each connected with a sec- 
tor of a collector, resembling in construction that of the 
Gramme machine. The insulating material used by Edison 
between the sectors of the collector wears away at the same 
rate as the copper sectors ; consequently, the collector 



352 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



wears truly, without longitudinal furrows, flutes or chan- 
nels, and runs with but few sparks. 

It can now be seen that the armature acts like that of 
Siemens, and it differs from it in being more simple in con- 
struction and winding. The small machines have for a 



Fio.236. 




Edison Machine " K:' 



winding well insulated copper wire in place of copper 
bars. 

The diagram. Figure 224, is taken from the draw- 
'^ing of one of Edison's patents, and shows his system of 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 353 

winding. There are fourteen divisions or seven crossings 
or loops, with the latter number of sectors in the collector. 
The number of sectors of collector in Edison's machines is 
always uneven ; the new large machines have forty-nine. 
Consequently, when the brushes bear on the collector 
diametrically opposite to each other, the sectors do not pass 
simultaneously from under them. While one brush bears 
on the centre of a sector, the opposite brush bears on two 
sectors, and so short circuits the two bobbins connected 
therewith. 

Special care is taken in the construction of the brushes. 
They consist of alternating layers of copper wire and rib- 
bon, and thereby a cushion-like softness of the contact sur- 
faces is attained. The brushes are bevelled at their ends 
fio that they fit the cylindrical surface of the collector, but 
at a less angle than a tangent. Brushes presented in such 
manner can be adjusted very accurately. 

The magnetic field of the "K" machine, shown in Fig. 
225, is produced by six electro-magnet limbs arranged in 
three pairs. The brushes are mounted on a yoke, which 
can be moved by a handle so as to place them in exact posi- 
tion on the line of exit of current. There are usually two 
brushes on each side in the smaller machines, and as many 
as six pairs on the large machines. They are pressed 
against the collector by helical springs, the tension of 
which can be regulated. On the front end of the machine, 
at the top, a wooden piece is fastened, and on it are placed 
a switch, and binding-posts to receive the wires of the mag- 
net and external circuits. The switch is moved by the 
handle to open or close the circuit. The whole is mounted 
on three rails, along which the machine can be moved to 
tighten or loosen the belt which drives it. The "K" ma- 
chine weighs 3.3 tons, is run at the speed of 900 rotations 
Tper minute, absorbs 32 horse-power, and produces a current 
of 110 volts tension and 183 amperes intensity, and is capa- 



354 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



ble of supplying 250 Edison 16 candle-power incandescent 
lamps. 

Fig. 226 shows a large Edison machine and its attached 
steam-engine. This dynamo is of great historical interest^ 



Fio. nr. 




Edison Machine 



as it marks the first decisive step in the advance from 
small to large machines^ which are now becoming so com- 
mon. This is rational^ as it is only with such machines that 
the utilization of electricity on a large scale becomes possi- 
ble. The magnetic field of this machine is produced by Id 
electro-magnet arms joined to two pole-pieces, and their 



i 




E» 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



355 



coils are traversed by a current derived from the main cir- 
cuit. The dimensions of this machine^ as it is now con- 
structedy are as follows : Besistance of armature circuit is 
O.O037 ohm, and that of the electro-magnet circuit is 6.7 



Fio. sas. 







Edison Machine "Z." 



ohms. The armature has 106 copper bars, and its core has 
2200 thin sheet-iron disks. 125 horse-power is used in 
driving the armature, which makes 350 rotations per min- 
ute. The current has 110 volts tension and can supply 1200 
Edison lamps of 16 candles illuminating power. The weight 
of the machine is 30 tons. Machines of this kind are used 



356 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIG MACHINES. 



in Edison Central Station for electric lighting in New York 
city. 

The various sizes of machines made by Edison at present 
are tabulated as follows : 



TYPE. 



Weight in kilogrammes. . . 

Horse-power 

Rotations per minute 

Capacity 16-candIe lamps 

Volts of tension 

No. magnet limbs 



£ 


Z 


L 


K 


C 


290 


1230 


2500 


3300 


30000 


2.5 


8 


18 


32 


125 


2200 


1200 


800 


900 


350 


17 


60 


250 


250 


1200 


110 


110 


110 


110 


110 


2 


2 


6 


6 


12 



3000 I 
65i 
1100 

400 ; 
no 

6 



The above figures show plainly the advantage of using 
large machines to which much power can be applied. 

[The **H" machine, included in the above table, is 
illustrated in Fig. 229. The apparent displacement of the 
contact points of the brushes on the collector from the neu- 
tral magnetic line is due to bending the loops from the 
bobbins to the segments of the collector which lie nearly on 
the horiatontal line. This is done to render access to the 
brushes for adjustment more easy. This ** H*' machine is 
the latest type of Mr. Edison's dynamos, because he has 
found advantages in shortening the magnet cores, as be- 
fore noticed. This machine occupies a space on the floor of 
77 X 33 inches, and is 61 inches high. The pulley has a face 
of 12^ inches and is 14 inches in diameter. 

Figs. 230, 231, 232, 233, taken from Mr. Edison's U. S, 
patent, show the construction of the armature more in 
detail. 

Fig. 230 is a section through an armature. Fig. 231 a 
view of the bars or strips laid out, the vertical dotted lines 
representing the plates between which the cross-connecting 
disks or rings are clamped. Figs. 232 and 233 are views of 
tiie copper disks or rings. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 357 

Fio. 229. 




C c' 



Edison Armature. 



858 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIG MACHINES. 



A is the armature shafts upon which is secured the core 
B of the armature. 

C C are the longitudinal bars or strips of copper, and 
D D' the cross-connecting rings or disks of copper, those of 
each set being separated by disks or rings of insulating 
material E. 

F is the commutator cylinder, and G the rods extending 
from the junctions of alternate bars with the lugs on the 

Fio. S81. 




Plait4 o/Edit&n Armature-Bart. 



disks, to the bars of such collector cylinder. These out- 
side collector connections may have the full conducting 
power of the inductive bars themselves. The bars of each 
layer are arranged opposite the spaces between the bars of 
the other layers, or so that the bars of the two layers will 
break joints. This permits the use of the outside collec- 
tor connections, which, for bars of the inner layer, pass 
between the lugs on the bars of the outer layer, such lugs 



CONTINUOUS CURBBNT MACHINES. 35S 

. being narrowed for that purpose at that end of the machine, 
as shown in Fig. 231. 

It is evident that three or more layers of copper bars or 
Btrips, with cross-connecting disks or rings and outside 
collector connections, might be arranged in this way. 

These longitudinal bars or strips are connected at their 
ends by copper disks or rings insulated from each other, the 
isame as if such bars were arranged in one layer. The 
double winding is in effect a single winding, with the alter* 

Fie. S8i. Fi6. S38. 





Copper Duk». 

nate bars located in an outer layer. All the inductive bars 
^re separately wrapped with a suitable insulating covering, 
and in addition the inner layer of bars or plates is separated 
from the outer layer by additional insulation. At one end 
of the armature the connections of the alternate bars with 
the disks are connected with the bars of the collector 
cylinder. 

Mr. Edison, in explaining the bar armature which he 
first made, and the rationale of it, says : 

" In that class of magneto or dynamo electric machines 
in which the revolving armature is composed of a cylindri- 
cal core whose surface is partially or entirely covered with 
coils wound parallel to the axis of the armature the coils 
scross each other at the ends, so that there is a large mass of 



360 DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

wire upon the ends useless for the purposes of generation^ 
while interposing unnecessary internal resistance in the 
machine, and at the same time being in position for exces- 
sive accumulation of heat. These masses of wire, crossing 
each other at the ends, render repairs to any coil exceed- 
ingly difficult, for the repair of any one coil involves the 
unwinding of such coils as may overlap it upon the ends. 

"One object of this invention is to construct the revolv- 
ing armature so that these defects are remedied, to which 
end this portion of the invention consists in fixing upon 
insulating disks which are to be secured to the ends of the 
armature metal plates or bars corresponding in number to 
the number of coils or conducting-bars ; or if a coil be con- 
sidered as consisting of the two active wires or assemblages 
of wires exactly opposite to each other upon the face of the 
armature, then the number of plates is double that of the 
coils. These bars are arranged upon the disks as spokes 
from a hub, radiating from the cehter, and may be termed 
the 'radiating' plates or bars. These plates or bars are 
electrically joined in pairs or couples by circular metallic 
conductors permanently fixed upon the insulating disks, 
care being taken to insulate these circular joining conduc- 
tors from each other. This arrangement of radiating bars 
or plates and joining conductors takes the place of the wires 
which formerly crossed the ends. The radiating plates or 
bars are provided at their outer edges with recesses, in 
which the active generating metal, whether in the form of 
wires, strips, ribbons, or bars, may be secured by soldering 
or by screws, or they may be secured together in any other 
suitable way. 

"The construction of revolving armatures as ordinarily 
practiced, especially in the case of very large machines, 
requires the use of a large amount of insulated wire. This 
is expensive, and besides takes up room and allows of the 
accumulation of heat, owing to the non-conductor forming 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT HACHINES. 361) 

the insulation, to remedy which is another object of this 
invention, to which'end I use rigid naked bars or wires of 
proper material, which are so disposed a;bout the armature 
that each is Beparated from the others, there being between 
them an insulation partly of mica and partly of air, which 
suffices in practice for insulation, and in addition allows 
such access of air to all the active parts of the armature 
that danger of heating thereof by accumulation is greatly 
lessened. 

'* In dynamo or magneto electric machines it is often 
desirable to give considerable electromotive force to the 
generated current, while at the same time there is main- 
tained a low degree of internal resistance of the machine. 

"Another part of the invention relates to the accom- 
plishment of this, and consists in so arranging the coils or 
bars and the commutators that all the coils or bars are 
always in circuit, so that an electromotive force due to the 
entire length of all the coils is obtained, and at the same 
time that part of the conductors which does not set up an 
electromotive force within the circuit is made of lower' 
resistance by means of the circular and radial bars or plates- 
at the ends than the portion in which the electromotive 
force arises. 

"The entire invention may be carried into effect by 
means substantially such as shown in the drawing, Fig. 
234, wherein C is the commutating end and A the other end 
of an armature. 

" Upon suitable insulating bases circular in form, the 
radial metal plates numbered 1 to 18 in A and C are secured, 
insulated from each other, as indicated, by the blank space 
between them. Upon A the circular plate or bar a connects 
1 and 10 ; 6, 2 and 11 ; c, 3 and 12 ; d, 4 and 13 ; e, 5 and U ; 
flr, 6 and 15; h, 7 and 16 ; i, 8 and 17 ; A:, 9 and 18. Each of 
these bars is insulated from the other and from all the plates 
excepting those which it is designed to connect. It will be 
16 



362 



DTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 




noticed that upon this end the circular bars connect exactly 
opposite coils, as would the wires ordinarily used. Upon 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 363 

the commutating end C the arrangement is somewhat dif- 
ferent. Upon it 1 and 12 are connected by m, 2 and 9 by n, 
3 and 14 by o, 4 and 11 by p, 6 and 16 by q, 6 and 13 by r, 
7 and 18 by s, 8 and 15 by t, 10 and 17 by u. These bars are 
insulated, as before stated in the case of A. Upon the 
commutating end the odd-numbered circular bars are bent 
outwardly at a right angle at their inner end, the bent por- 
tions V V being secured to a hub and forming the commuta- 
tor. To these end disks thus constructed are secured wires, 
ribbons, or bars in any suitable manner, forming with the- 
radial and circular plates the coils. 

" For large machines I prefer to use naked bars of cop- 
per, B B', which are secured in the recesses shown in the 
outer edges of the radial plates. They will be suflSciently 
insulated from each other by the air space between them. 
If bars are used not sufficiently rigid to preserve their rela- 
tive distances from each other throughout their length, 
stays or blocks of insulating material — ^such as mica — ^may 
be placed between them at proper intervals. 

^^ By the arrangement of connections and the commuta- 
tor, as shown in C, all the coils are constantly in circuit, 
the generated current having the electromotive force of a 
coil of the total length of all the coils, while the internal 
resistance is kept low by the lessening of resistance in the 
ends due to the much larger mass of conductor in section of 
the plates and bars over that of the wires ordinarily used,, 
while the resistance of the active parts, when bars are used, 
as described, is also greatly lessened. 

" Supposing the parts are in such position that the com- 
mutator-brushes are in connection with 5 and 15, the path 
of the generated currents will be as follows : starting, say, 
at the brush on 5, the path in the machine to 15 would be, 
for one portion of the current via 6 e U o 3 c 12 7n 1 a 10 u 
17 iSt 15, and for the other portion via 5 q IQ h 7 s IS k 9 n- 
2 6 11 i> 4 d 13 r 6 gr 15, thus including every coil." 



364 



DYNAMO-ELECTRrC MACHINES. 



Mr. Edison has devised vaxious ways of making the 
diametrical cross-connections for the bars of the armatures 
of his large machines. Figs. 235, 236, 237, show one of these 
designs. 

Fie. 886. 

.A 




Fig. 235 is a perspective view of the armature with- 
out the collector-connections, only a few of the copper 
bars and concentric rings being shown to avoid confusion ; 
Fig. :^36, a longitudinal section through the armature, the 
collector cylinder being shown in elevation ; and Fig. 247, 
a separate view of one of the rings. 

The core A of the armature is built up of disks or rings 
of iron separated by paper. 

B represents the naked copper bars, arranged longitudi- 
nally on the core parallel with the axis of rotation, and 
insulated from such core and from each other. In practice 
the core is wholly or nearly covered by such bars. 

C C are the two series of concentric copper rings, lo- 
cated at the ends of the armature outside the polar exten- 



•CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



365 



'sions of the magnets, the rings of each series being insu- 
lated from each other. Each ring has two fingers, c, on its 
outer edge, which are bent inwardly for making connection 
with the inductive bars. At the collector end of the ma- 
chine each ring is connected with the bars of the collector 
cylinder D by an angular bar, d. 

Fie. 286. 




Edit<nCs Armaturv. 



Pio. 287. 



The connections of this machine are arranged symmetri- 
cally. At the collector end each ring connects two oppo- 
site inductive bars, and has a connection midway with 
the collector, while at the other end the terminal and 
initial bars of the pairs are connected 
symmetrically, so as to form a con- 
tinually closed multiple-arc circuit 
through all the bars, the current 
being divided at the negative col- 
lector-brush, and each part passing 
through one-half of the bars and meet- 
ing the other part of the current at 
the positive collector-brush. 

Another plan devised by Mr. Edison 
for cross-connecting the bars of an armature is shown in 
Figs. 238 and 239. 

Fig. 238 is a perspective view from the collector end, 
ishowing a few of the parts separated for clear illustration ; 




Ring. 



366 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fig. 239, a side elevation of some of the parts at the col- 
lector end of the armature. 
A is the core of the armature. 

Fig. S88. 




Part of Armaturt. 

B B' are the copper inductive bars, extending longitudi- 
nally along the core A, and connected at their ends to cop- 
per disks C, insulated from each other. The bars B extend 




fS 

Part of Armature. 

straight to the ears a of the disks, while the alternate bars 
B' are curved over the first line of ears to ears 6 of the 
second line. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



367 



D is the collector, and E represents the rods, extend- 
ing from alternate ears to the bars of the collector. 
The contacts, of B and B' and of E with the ears of disks O 
are plated with gold or amalgamated, or both. The thim- 
]bles c on bolts d separate the disks C from the ends of the 
core A to bring such disks outside of the polar extensions of 
the machine and remove them as far as practical from the 
effects of the magnetic field. The copper disks C have 

Fie. Ma 




JUrgenstiCs Machine. 



double-beveled edges e, forming angular spaces, into which 
the projecting edges of the paper sheets / are pressed to 
prevent electrical creeping between the edges of disks. 

F is the insulating wrapping of parchment-paper, and 
Q the mica. — K.] 



T'l. Jnrg-ensen's IVfachiTie^ shown in Fig. 
240, has a peculiar form. It is the invention of Prof, C. P. 
Jurgensen and Dr. P. L. V. Lorenz of Copenhagen. The 
main peculiarity is in intensifying the field within which 
the Qramme armature is rotated, by providing a stationary 
electro-magnet inside of the armature, with the object of 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fie. 941. 



utilizing the interior part of the bobbins on the annular 
core. The field magnet limbs are curved from the iron base 
which serves to close the magnetic circuit. . Toward the 
poles the number of superimposed layers of wire are 
increased. Owing to the curve of the cores wedge-shaped 
spaces are left between the coils, but they serve to ventilate 
the core. For greater stability the poles are connected at 
the top by a plate of non-magnetic material fastened there- 
to. The interior electro-magnet is shown separately in Fig. 
241. It is composed of four radial arms which are con- 
nected to a common axial hub. Two of these arms on each 
side are connected at their outer ends by an iron pole-piece 
of segmental form. The arms are so wound that the cur- 
rent through their coils makes 
unlike poles of the two pole- 
pieces. Like poles of the in- 
terior, d d, face like poles of the 
exterior, a^ a\ It will be seen 
that in this manner a very in- 
tense annular magnetic field 
is gained through which the 
bobbins of the armature are 
moved. The core of the arma- 
ture is formed of a niunber of 
flat, insulated iron rings which are held together, side by 
side, by bolts which pass through them. 

This core is wound as in the Gramme armature, and has 
like collector and brushes. 

Ventilation of the armature of this machine is secured 
by fastening the perforated disk g^ opposite the end of the 
armature. On the armature is fastened a like disk which 
rotates with the armature. The rotation of the one disk 
near the fixed one produces a draught of air through the 
hollow cylinder. The design of this machine may be con- 
sidered perfect from a theoretical point of view, but its 




Armature and Interior Electro- Magnet 
of yurgensen's Machine. 



CONTINUOUS-CURRENT MAOQINES. 



369 



practical construction involves mechanical <i;ifficulties in 
the manufacture of machines of considerable sii^. 

V2. [TVeston's Central Afiag-net ^lia- 

43liiiie. Mr. Edward «Weston has also built a macliine 
iiaving a pair of magnet-poles within the bobbins of the 

Fto. MS. 




IVeston'* Central- Magnet Machine. 



armature. But, instead of the armature being wound after 
the Granmae model, as in the Jiirgensen machine, it is 
wound much like that of his other machines, somewhat as 
is the Siemens machine illustrated by Fig. 191, in the 



370 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 



respect that there is no iron armature core ; the bobbins 
being wound upon a cylinder of non-magnetic material^ 

preferably paper. Fig. 
^® ^^' 242 is an isometrical per- 

spective view of the ma- 
chine. Fig. 243 is a trans- 
verse vertical section 
through the line a; a; on 
Fig. 242. Fig. 244 is a 
central longitudinal sec- 
tion of a rotating shell, 
the commutator, the in- 
terior stationary magnet, 
and the bar upon which 
the interior stationary 
magnet is supported, and 
upon which the rotating 
shell and commutator re- 
volve, showing the mode 
of winding each system 
of coils upon the shell, 
and of connecting such 
coils with the sectors of 
the commutator, and also the mode of winding and connect- 
ing the coil of the interior stationary electro-magnet. Fig. 
245 is an isometrical perspective of the exterior stationary 
electro-magnets, with the cap, base, and rotating parts of the 
machine removed for the purpose of showing the mode of 
winding the coils on the stationary magnets and connecting 
them with the other parts of the machine. At C is an iso- 
metrical view of the rotating shell and commutator, show- 
ing but one of the systems of coils on the shell. At D is an 
isometrical view of the interior stationary magnet and its 
supporting bar and one of the standards which supports the 
bar. At K and K' are the two binding-posts of the machine. 




Weston^ s Central- Magnet Machine. Cros*-*ection» 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 371 

Spiral lines show the method in which the several parts 
of the machine are included in the same circuit. A system 
of arrows shows the path of the current through the entire 
circuit in one direction. 

Fig. 246 contains a group of figures similar to those of 
Fig. 245, respectively marked 4', 5', 6', 7', 8', 9 and 10, and 
Bhows the rotating shell provided with two commutators, 
and also shows the mtethod of connection by which two 
distinct circuits are obtained, Kg and Kj being the two ad- 
ditional bindinj^ posts required for the second circuit. 




Longitudinal Section o/ Armature and Centred Metgntt. 

The machine has a substantial bed-plate, A, to which 
are secured the two vertical cores of the stationary electro- 
magnets B B^ The upper ends of these cores are bolted to 
the cross-piece B^ and the coils B^ are so wound upon the 
T-ertical cores that the laterally-projecting poles 6 and 6' are 
of opposite polarities. The faces of the poles 6 6' are con- 
<jave and just clear the periphery of the revolving shell C, 
w^hich is provided with a series of equidistant ribs, c, paral- 
lel with its axis and projecting from its ends, and by means 
of which it is secured to the peripheries of two cup-shaped 
disks, c^ These disks are each provided with long hubs c^, 
which are perforated to admit the axis or central bar, d, 
upon which they revolve, and by which the electro-magnet 
D is supported within the interior of the shell. The com- 
mutator-disk E is afBxed to one of these hubs, and the 
driving-pulley P is affixed to the other. The shell C is an 



372 



DTKAMO-ELECTRIO MACHINES. 



elongated sphere, and is provided at one end with a remov- 
able cap, G, which is held in place by the screws g, radially 
inserted through the ribs c. These are eight in number. 
Four distinct and similar systems of coils, G\ are wound 



Fuk 94S. 




Circuit of Weston^ t Centrai-Armaturt MaeJdne, 

lengthwise around the shell in the spaces between the ribs. 
Two convolutions of one of these systems of coils are 
shown in Fig. 246. The ends 0* of each of the coils C* are 
connected, respectively, with two diametrically opposite 
divisions or sectors, 6, of the commutator. Holes are bored 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



373 



through the outer faces of the ribs Cy to allow the air from 
the interior of the shell to escape when the shell is rapidly 
rotated. The ends of the shell are perforated to admit air 
into its interior, and hence when the shell is rotated a 
rapid circulation of air is kept up, which tends to cool the 
structure. 




Circuit cf JVestcn't Ctntral-Armaturt-MtuhiKe. 

The commutator is composed of a number of metallic 
sectors, e, equal to twice the number of coils upon the shell, 
such sectors being insulated from each other, and affixed to 
the flat face of the disk E, fastened to one of the rotating 
hubs A Each pair of diametrically-opposite sectors is con- 
nected with the opposite ends of one of the systems of coils 
upon the shell. As the neutral points in the magnetic field 
are vertically opposite each other in the centre of the ma- 
chine, all the adjoining sectors on either side of the com- 



37^ DTNAMO-BLBCTRIG MACHINES. 

mutator are of like polarity, and of opposite polarity to the 
adjoining sectors on the other side of the commutator. The 
currents induced in the rotating coils are collected from 
the commutator by the brushes H and H^ each of which it 
will be seen overlaps two or more sectors of like polarity. 

The brush H is electrically connected, by means of the 
wire /», with one end of the wire which forms the coils B* 
upon the exterior stationary magnets. The other brush, 
HS is electrically connected, by means of the wire A', to 
the standard I, in the upper end of which one end of the 
bar d is supported. 

One end of the coil D' on the stationary magnet D is con- 
nected with the iron core of the magnet D, and hence with 
the supporting-bar d, and the other end of the coil is carried 
out through the interior of the bar d, which is made hollow 
for the purpose, and is connected .by means of the wire d' 
with the binding-post K. One end of the operative circuit 
L is connected with the binding-post K, and the other end 
with the binding-post K\ the latter being connected, by 
means of the wire A:, with the end of the coil B^ on the sta- 
tionary magnets opposite to the end which is connected by 
the wire h to the brush H. 

Referring to Fig. 246, it wilt be seen that C represents a 
rotating shell provided with two commutators, E E and 
E' E', each composed of four sectors, connected, respective- 
ly, with the ends of two of the four coils upon the rotating 
shell. To prevent obscurity, but two of the four coils on 
the rotating shell are shown. The coils B* are in this case 
connected by the wire k with the binding-post K^ and by 
the wire h h with the brush H, and the brush H* is connect- 
ed by the wire i with the binding-post K, the binding-posts 
K and K* being connected by the operative part L of their 
circuit. 
^ The brush H^ of the other commutator is connected by 
the wire j with the standard I, and hence with one end of 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 375 

"the coil D' on the stationary magnet D, while the other end 
of the coil D' is connected by the wire d' with the binding- 
post K*, the latter being connected by thie operative part L' 
of its circuit with the binding-post K^ with which the com- 
mutator-brush H* is connected by the wire f. 

The mode of operation of the parts in the arrangement 
shown in Fig. 246 is similar to that of Fig. 245. — K.] 

[ys* "Weston's Stationary- A-irmatrire 
IMCachine. Mr. Weston has also constructed another 
machine having novel features. We describe it on that 
account, though we do not deem it a practicable machine, 
•especially because it is so hard to construct. 

Fig. 247 is an isometrical perspective of the machine. 
Fig. 248 is a central longitudinal vertical section. Fig. 249 
is a transverse section through the line a; a; on Fig. 248. 
Fig. 250 is an isometrical perspective of the skeleton-frame 
upon which the coite are wound. 

The cylindrical iron shell A, open at the ends, is provided 
with foot-pieces A', by means of which it is secured to the 
Ibed-plate a. Within the cylinder A is a skeleton-frame B, 
consisting of two or more riijgs 6 6, joined together by the 
equidistant strips or ribs V, which are parallel with the axis 
of the cylinder, and which serve to divide the rings into 
•eight equal segments. The outermost surfaces of the ribs 
b* are curved transversely to fit the interior surface of the 
shell A, to which they are fastened by the screws 6'. The 
number of ribs, and consequently the number of segments 
into which the skeleton-frame is divided, will depend upon 
the size of the machine. 

The skeleton-frame is shown to be divided into eight 
•segments, and each pair of diametrically opposite segments 
serves to support one of the four coils C. Each coil tra- 
verses the entire exterior of the skeleton-frame, extending 
.across the ends of the cylinder from the segment on one 



376 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIG MACHINES. 



side to the segment diametrically opposite, and the free 
ends d and & of the coil are respectively connected with two 



Fm. M7. 




IVestom's Stationary- Armature Mxchiiu, 



stationary brushes, c" and c*^, bearing upon diametrically- 
opposite sides of the cylindrical commutator D d. This- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



377- 



mode of winding and connecting each coil is shown in Fig, 
248, whereon, for the sake of avoiding confusion, only one^ 
of the four coils is represented. 




The eight brushes required for connection with the f ree^ 
ends of the four coils are secured in the slotted stems c^, pro- 
jecting laterally from the face of the annular cup-shaped 



•378 



DTNAMO-SLBOTRIC MACHINES* 



disk c*, of insulating material, which is supported upon the 
^ cross-bar H. 

The commutator is composed of the two concentrically- 
curved strips D d, which project laterally in opposite direc- 
tions from the opposed faces of the hubs D' d'. The hub d 
is secured directly upon the rotating shaft E, while the hub 
D' is mounted on a busl^ing which insulates it from the 




IVesfon's Stationary- Armature Machine. Cross-section, 

shaft E. The two curved strips D d overlap each other 
upon opposite sides of the shaft, and the two spaces between 
their edges are filled with wood, in order to provide a con- 
tinuous concentrically-curved path for the brushes c" and 
c22, not less than three of which are always in contact with 
each strip. The hub D' is elongated sufficiently to provide 
a bearing for the brush D^, which is supported in the stem 
D^ projecting laterally from one of the binding-posts F, 
with which one end F' of the operative part of the circuit is 
^connected. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



37»^ 



Outside the hub D' is a metallic collar G, mounted upon, 
an insulating bushing e upon the shaft E^ and separated 
from the hub D' by the insulating collar e'. The other bind- 
ing-post/of the machine, to which the other end f of the 
operative circuit is connected, is provided with a brush G', 
which bears upon the periphery of the collar G. The inner 
face of the collar G is connected with the wire g, which is 
inclosed in a tube of insulating material g\ inserted in holes- 



, S60. 




Westo^s Stationary- Armature Machine, Shell, 



gf*, extending through the hubs D' and d'. The inner end 
of the wire g is secured by a set-screw g^ to a metallic col- 
lar g*, which is separated from the shaft E by the flanged 
insulating-bushing ^. 

The bearings H h for the shaft E are formed in the arms 
H' h', which extend horizontally across each end of the cyl- 
inder, and are bolted thereto. The shaft E has at the front 
end of the cylinder an enlarged journal, which is longitudi- 
nally perforated to receive the insulating tube i contain- 



:d80 DYNAMO-ELEGTBIC MACHINES. 

ing the wire t', which at its forward end is secured to the 
<;ollar g* and serves to connect that collar with one end of 
the system of coils I surrounding the iron core I' of an elec- 
tro-magnet mounted upon and revolving with the shaft EL 
The opposite end of the system of coils I is connected to the 
iron core of the rotating magnet, and hence through the 
core and shaft E with the conmiutator-hub d\ and succes- 
sively with the brushes connected wijth the ends of the sta- 
tionary coils. — K.] 

T4.. The Afa^cliiiies of IVia^udet, TVal- 
l£ice-F£ii*mei*, I^ontin, a^nd Bxi.]?g;iii, have 
a close relation to the machines just discussed; though 
they possess no ring-formed bobbin of iron, nor drum, 
but they show the same principle of connecting up the 
several bobbin wires as in the Oramme ring, and also 
the principle of taking up the current without a commu- 
tator proi>er. If the machines described in previous sec- 
tions (46 to 73 inclusive) can be regarded as belonging to 
one family designated by the points for taking oflE the cur- 
rents, which are perpendicular to the line of greatest mag- 
netic intensity, we must group the machines described in 
this and the next succeeding sections, numbers 75, 76 and 
77, to a second class, because the points of taking the cur- 
rent lie on the pole-line itself. [These points really lie 
on the line at which the rotating magnet-poles leave the 
stationary ones. — K.] 

]Viaii.det's M[a,giaeto - Elective M!a- 
chiiie. Alfred Niaudet has constructed (1872) a magneto- 
electric machine which combines the principle of Clarke's 
machine in a multiple form, with the manner of connecting 
the coils practiced by Pacinnotti and Gramme, thus making 
a commutator unnecessary. 

For construction of this machine, refer to Fig. 251 to 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



3il 



make plain this description. The two permanent magnets 
are fastened to the base, so that their respective poles are 
in opposition, i. e., the north pole of one and the south pole 
of the other are upon the base. On the shaft two disks of 
non-magnetic material, like brass or vulcanite, are fastened. 
Between and to the disks twelve cores and coils are fas- 
tened at equal distances apart, and parallel with the shaft. 

Ite. 851. 




NiautUfs Magneto- Electric Machine. 



The beginning-end of each coil is connected with the 
terminating-end of the next adjacent coil in either of the 
two directions. So, when the connections are completed, 
the wires of the several coils are electrically connected, and 
there is but one circuit, which embraces all the coils. 
Twelve strips of metal are fastened upon one of the disks, 
extending radially from near the shaft, one of each, to a 
point of connection between the wires Oj! each two spools. 
Two springs are caused to press successively upon these 
strips as the disks are rotated, one above and the other 



382 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



below the shaft, on a line drawn from pole to pole of one of 
the magnets. 

As currents generated by recedence from a north pole 
and approach to a south pole have one direction, and those 
of recedence from a south pole and approach to a north 
pole have the contrary direction, it follows that all the coils 
on one side of the line from pole to pole must have a cur- 
rent of one direction, and those on the other side a current 
opposed. So they must meet at the strip which at the mo- 
ment is parallel with that line. As a complete circuit is 
furnished through the spring and wire to the other spring, 
current flows as is illustrated in Fig. 251. 

T'S. The "Wallace-Faraier Ligrht >Ia- 
cliiiie is said to have been built by the electrician Moses 

Fio. 883. 




The IValUue-Farmifr Machine. 



Q. Farmer, in Boston, in 1876, and latterly by the house of 
Wallace & Sons, Ansonia, Conn. 

It suddenly attained great reputation in the United 
States and England, when Edison used it in his first experi- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



383 



ments in electric lighting, and spoke of it as producing 
unlimited currents of electricity. An examination of the 
engraving of it shown in Fig. 252 will show to the expert at 
once that it deals only with the principles of construction, 
with which we have become so familiar in the descriptions 
of the machines of Niaudet, Lontin, and Schuckert, 

The machine has two half -flat horseshoe-shaped electro- 
magnets, whose opposite poles face each other. In the 
magnetic field formed by these poles, a double crown of 
fifty sector-shaped bobbins are rotated, so that the pole ends 



Fig. 253. 




Wailace- Farmer Armature, 



of these bobbins pass successively at a very short distance 
in front of the stationary magnet poles. It will be seen 
that two iron disks are fastened upon the axis of rotation, 
each carrying twenty-five bobbins. Each bobbin consists 
of four sets of wire coils consecutively connected, while at 
the same time from the points of junction of two consecu- 
tive bobbins wires are connected which pass to a collector 
placed upon the axis, after the manner which has been 
minutely described in the cases of the Oramme and Siemens 
machines. All the iron cores upon which the bobbins are 
wound are made hollow, with openings, so that the circu- 
lation of air may act to cool them during rotation. 

By reason of the Oramme arrangement of the collector, 
the machine does not need a special commutator. It pro- 



384 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



duces from each crown of bobbins a system of currents 
having one direction, and they may be united for quantity, 
or in series, or be employed separately. The machine has 
the circuits so arranged that it works upon the dynamo- 
electric principle. The manufacturers of this machine 
claim many advantages for it ; one is that the position of 
the wire bobbins is such that they may be rapidly cooled by 
the air set in motion by the rotation. But this condition is 




LontitCs Dynamo- Electric Machine. 

of so little practical effect that when the machine is work- 
ing normally at 800 rotations per minute, it becomes heated 
to the melting point of sealing-wax. In addition to this 
defect, the friction of the armature against the air is so 
great as to cause consumption of power as high as eight- 
horse to overcome it. 



T'O. Lontin's I>yiiaiiio-Electi:*ic IMa- 
oliine. These machines resemble in their construction 
and principle those of the Society I ^Alliance, and of Holmes, 
as well as the dynamo-electric machines of Oramme. Fig. 



CONTIVXrOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 385 

254 shows one of these machines which was patented in the 
year 1874. A and A' axe the two limbs of a strong ordinary 
electro-magnet, elose to the poles of which the pole-ends of 
the induction coils D move in rotation in the direction 
shown by the arrows. The induction coils are carried on the 
cylindrical hub B of soft iron. Iron spokes D are fastened 
at regular intervals radially to the periphery of this hub, 
and act as cores of the electro-magnet coils. The wheel, or 
armature, here illustrated, has ten such arms, or spokes. 
Their number, however, can be increased or diminished. 
Each spoke is wound in the same direction with insulated 
copper wire, and in such a way that the terminating-end 
of each bobbin is connected with the beginning-end of 
the wire of the following one, so that the bobbins all form 
a single closed wire as in the Gramme armature. The 
figure shows but one armature of this kind, but several of 
these may be placed upon one axis. From the junctions of 
the wires of two consecutive bobbins, short, thick copper 
wires lead to the copper contact-pieces, or sectors, of a 
•collector similar to that used in the Gramme machine. 
Brushes are used to bear upon the collector, as in other 
machines. The dynamo-electric principle is used as well. 
When the armature is rotated in the direction of the arrows, 
and any one of the bobbins, for example, D 1, approaches 
the south pole, S, of the electro-magnet, a current is gen- 
erated in the wire of D 1, having a certain direction (§ 8). 
The same occurs with the following bobbins as they ap- 
proach this pole. The difference between this and the 
Oramme & Siemens machines is that the currents are taken 
off by means of the brushes bearing upon the collector, on 
or near the line of greatest magnetic intensity. This line 
is shown drawn from S to N. 

It is hardly necessary to say that these machines may be 
constructed for various electrical effects, and having vari- 
ous degrees of intensity, according to the length and size 



386 DTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

of wire wound upon them, so as to be used for electric- 
lighting or for galvanoplastic purposes. [A machine was 
patented in the United States in 1875, by J. B. Fuller^ and 
was invented by him previous to the invention by Lontin, 
and was made in all electrical particulars like that we have 
just described. In practice it was found to consume very 
much more power for given electric effecta than those of 
the strictly Gramme type ; so much so that, after puttings 
above fifty of them into practical use, the Fuller Electrical 
Company owning the patent withdrew them and substituted 
Oramme machines. They had two very grave faults, other 
than the waste of power ; one of which was extraordinary 
heating, and the other the noise which was created during 
the motion of the armature by reason of the rapid magnetic 
zation and demagnetization of the arms carrying the bob- 
bins. — K.] 

If we imagine the Lontin machine so changed that the 
wheel shown in Fig. 254 carries 16 teeth, and that those are 
not in one plane, but are arranged in four planes, so that 
the teeth of one plane form a cross, and that each of these 
four crosses so formed is set at 22^ degrees from the preced- 
ing one, we have a model of the 

T^T". T>ynsLm€> - Electirlc 3f aeliine of 
Biirg-in. Biirgin at first grouped eight iron bars upon 
one axis, so that each pair of them lying in the same plane 
formed a cross. There were hence four crosses, each of 
which was set at 22 ^ degrees to the preceding one, so that 
the ends of the bars were in the line of the apices of the 
threads of a quadruple screw. The ends of the wire bob- 
bins wound upon the iron bars were all carried towards the 
axis, and then ran alongside of the axis to a copper ring at 
one end. This ring of copper was divided into as msmy 
sections as iron bars, and all sections were separated by 
insulating layers. The inner end of each bobbin was con- 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



387 



nected at the corresponding segment of the ring with the 
outer end of the next bobbin, and so on, till a complete cir- 



I 
I 




9 



cuit was formed of all the bobbins, as in connecting up the 
Oramme ring. 

The machine, however, which is now known in England 



388 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



as Biirgin's machine is another arrangement, which is 
shown in Figs. 255, 256, 257, and 258. 

The armature is made up of eight iron cores, each of 
which has the form of a hexagon, and is supported by 
radial arms from the axis. Each of these hexagonal rings 
is set 7^ degrees in advance of the preceding one. Each 
core is wound in the same direction with six bobbins of 
copper wire, which are each 75 metres long and 7.5 milli- 
metres in diameter, and are so connected with each other 
that if the bobbins are imagined to be represented in one 

Fio.9Bew 




BiirgirCs Dynamo- Electric Machine^ partly in Crou-sectwn, 



plane, the end of a preceding bobbin is connected with the 
beginning of the succeeding one, and hence the entire num- 
ber of spools form one single closed circuit. From each 
junction of two bobbins a wire leads to a corresponding 
segment of the collector, which is formed just as in the 
machine of Lontin^ and has as many segments as the arma- 
ture has bobbins. 

The pole-pieces of the stationary magnet are placed as 
close as is practicable to allow the armature to rotate. The 
resistance of the armature is 1.6 ohm. 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 
Fn. XT. 



389 




Armature of BiirgiiCs Machiiu, 

The field magnets have 60 meters of copper wire of 3.5 
millimetres diameter, and are arranged as in the Siemens 
machine, one pole being above and the other below. The 
resistance of the four electro-magnet coils is 1.2 ohms, so 
that the entire resistance of the machine is 2.8 ohms. This 
is for a machine to run three lights. The electromotive 
force is given as 195 volts at 1500 rotations per minute, and 
at 206^ volts at 1600 rotations per minute, with a resistance 
of 13.16 ohms in the external circuit. 

The method of generating the current and directing it is 
the same as in the Lontin machine. The fastening of the 
brushes which press upon the collector is seen in Figs. 255 
and 256. The bearings of the machine are bolted to the 
sides of the magnets. The machine seems to be very solidly 
built, and in this respect is superior. It measures 0.863 
meters in length, 0.342 metres in height, and 0.711 metres in 
width. It weighs about 6.5 hundredweight. Professor 
Hagenbach made experiments with a Biirgin machine, built 
by R. E. CromptoUy and obtained the following result : 



No. OP Lamfs. 


Strength op Light 

PER Horse-power in 

Normal Candles. 


Strength op Light 
OP EACH Lamp in 
Normal Candles. 


3 

4 


800 
560 


1360 
700 



390 



D7NAM0-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



T^S. The latest dynamo-electric machine of v. Hefner- 
Altenecky for continuous currents, is illustrated in Figs. 259 
and 260. On the base A are fixed two iron supports B, the 
form of which can be seen from the drawing. Each of 
these supports carries on its interior side an equal number 
(n -h 2) electro-magnets, whose pole-ends are opposite, as 
at N S, N S. The electro-magnets are so arranged on each 
of the supports concentrically to the axis E of the machine. 

Fig. 866. 




Biirgin** Machine^ partly in Longitudinal Section. 



that each one has opposite polarity to the one turned 
towards it, and also to those two which lie in the same 
plane to the right and left. The wires of the magnets are 
so connected that they form a single closed circuit. 

A number n of flat bobbins, wound with insulated wire 
around wooden cores of appropriate form, are arranged in 
two planes around the axis, so as to fill up the magnetic 
field between the poles of the stationary magnets. As the 
number of bobbins in one series of these spools is two less 
than the number of magnetic fields, only two diametrically 
opposite spools enter at the same time corresponding mag- 
netic fields. At the same moment the remaining bobbins 



CONTINUOUS CUKKBNT MACHINES. 
Fia.K». 



391 




jm. 



W 



The Latest Dynam4fElectric Machine of v, He/ner-A Itenec \ . Longitudinal Section, 



392 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



are either approaching or receding from magnetic fields. 
The maxima of current impulses hence does not take place 
simultaneously as the armature rotates, but take place 




Laieti Dynamo-EUctric Maehin* of v. He/ner'AlUneek, 

by consecutive impulses in consecutive periods. The ends 
of the bobbins are so connected with each other that the 
wire in all the spools forms a circuit closed in itself, but in 
such a maimer that by following the wire of th-^ members 



CONTINUOUS CU&BENr JC^GHINITS. 393 

of the circuit, each has a direction opposite to the previous 
one. From the junctions between the spools, connecting 
wires lead to one group of the collector cylinder. One of 
these is situated upon the axis of the machine, and consists 

of ^ (o + ^) V^^^j insulated from the axis and from each 

other, and are all connected in n groups,, in such a way that 

each group comprises ^ + 1 parts, which are distant from 

one another by n — 1 collector parts which lie between. 
The connections are led out from the n metallic rings r. 

Fig. 259, by ^ + 1 star-like projecting wires rf, leading to 

the collector parts of therespoctive group. The connecting 
wires mentioned above lead to the rings r, but so that the 
consecutive intermediate wires are in connection with the 
consecutive rings. 

The diagram. Fig. 261, in which n equals 8, will make 
the whole plainer. In this diagrcun, the bobbins interposed 
in the circuit are shown in the varying direction of their 
convolutions by black and white circles, and the magnetic 
fields of diflferent polarity by white and black squares ; the 
collector cylinders and the metal disks by the numbers 1 to 
8 ; the stationary springs pressing on the collector by the 
signs -h and — ; the wires connecting the convolutions of 
the bobbins by the lines drawn between them, 1 to 8. The 
described connections between the spools and collector cyl- 
inders have been omitted. They are to be imagined as so 
constructed that each of the intermediate wires 1 to 8 is in 
circuit connection with each collector part having the same 
lettering, 1, 2, 3, etc. The several parts of the diagram are 
represented in correct angle in relation to each other, but in 
order to be plainer are moved out of their actual position 
and placed radially, instead of i>arallel, to the line of rota« 
tion. 



394 DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

The diagram shows plainly the mode of action of the 
machine. If, for example, the bobbins and the collector 
cylinder are imagined to be rotated in the direction of a 
clock-hand, the momentary position of the spools and the 
collector cylinder to the magnetic field may be assmned in 
any place whatever, and one will always be able to find 
a line passing through the centre which divides the figure 

Fia. ML 




Diagram thawing Origin and CclUetion of Current in v. Hefner^Alttntek Maehim, 

into halves, in one of which the spools and the fields of 
the ^ame color approach each other, while in the other half 
this is the case only with those of miequal color. In the 
figure, such a position is shown by the dotted line. 

If now, simultaneously, two consecutive spools approach 
the next nearest magnetic fields which have different polar- 
ity, current impulses of different direction will be generated 
in both spools, which in consequence of the described con- 
nection of the spools, will combine into a current having 
one direction. Hence it follows that all spools of one half 
give a current in the same direction as the rotation, and the 



CONTINUOUI^ CURRENT MACHINES. 395 

spools of the other half a current in the opposite direction. 
At the points 3 and 7 a current can hence be momentarily 
abducted. These points, however, are in connection with 
the rings r, 3, and 7, and through these again with the col- 
lector parts which are numbered 3 and 7 respectively. In 
the position shown, the two collector parts 3 and 7 are on 
one side or the other under the springs, which therefore 




Diagram thawing Origin and Collection of Current in v. Hefner'Alteneck Machine. 

conduct an electric current into the exterior circuit which 
connects them. 

For every other position of the rotating parts, it is found 
that the imaginary line mentioned passes through those* 
two points of the interior circuit which are in connection 
with the collector parts which at the same moment are^ 
under the springs. Therefore, it follows that from the posi- 
tive pole to the negative pole a continuous current is made 
to travel. 

From these statements it will be seen that the number 
of bobbins and magnetic fields can be changed in manifold 
ways ; so, for example, n — 2 bobbins can be used for n. 



396 l>YNAMO-BIiBOTBIC MACHINES. 

bobbins. By retaining the number of magnetic fields, say 
^ n -f 2, the number of bobbins can be doubled (2n). 

Doubling the bobbins in this way offers" the special ad- 
vantage of more nearly uniform pull of the parts, so that the 
action of the machine is smoother and sparks on the collec- 
tor less in number. The spools are then so arranged in two 
planes and lying against one another that they cover each 
other one-half, as is seen in Fig. 260. 

In Fig. 262 a diagram analogous to Fig. 261 is shown for 
:such a double machine. It will be seen therefrom that the 
bobbins do not follow intermittently, one after another, but 
are introduced gradually, overlapping one another in the 
•current's circuit. Therefore the circuit connecting the 
spools appearing in Fig. 262 has a line protruding and re- 
ceding within the circle. The collector cylinder has eighty 
parts. In the position shown, the dividing line passes 
through the connecting points 3 and 11, and the momentary 
current directions are shown by the arrows. 

Some of the special advantages of the machine consist 
in the simple method of winding, and the possibility of 
securing the thorough insulation of the convolutions from 
the metallic parts. It is no less important that the spools 
<;ontain no iron, and hence a magnetic change of polarity 
does not take place. Therefore the power lost by changing 
poles is avoided, the possibility of heating the machine is 
lessened, and very effective cooling takes place by reason 
of the air circulating in and around the parts. 

[yo. The A.i-ag-0 I>isk r>yiiamo. This 
machine was invented by Prof. C. A. Seeley, of New York 
dity. It is said to have been improved by Mr. C. M. Ball. 
It was exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition. The 
machine resembles in principle the- Hefner- Alteneck dy- 
namo, p. 390. The bi-polar type is illustrated by Fig. 254. 
Two uprights carry boxes for the armature shaft at*near 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 



397 



their centres, and two cores for electro-magnets equidistant 
from and parallel with the shaft. The poles facing each 
other have opposite polarities, and the two cores on either 
side of the disk armature are of unlike polarity. The ends 
of the cores are provided with sector-shaped pole-pieces. 



to 




Within the magnetic field so formed the armature is rotated. 
This armature is made up of a hub, around which are 
arranged six sector-shaped bobbins which, with the excep- 
tion of space occupied by the wooden cores upon which the 
bobbin-wires are wound, nearly fill the disk. The wires are 



898 



DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 




arranged so that they are radially laid except at near the 
hub and at the periphery under the ring which serves to 
hold the whole together against the centrifugal force due to 



CONTINUOUS CURRENT MACHINES. 399 

rapid rotation. The coils are all wound in the same direc- 
tion, but are coupled-up in such a way that a current pass- 
ing through them in series would circulate in contiguous 
ones in opposite directions. A commutator is connected 
with loops from the junctions of the several bobbins ; and 
the current is passed around the field-magnets after the 
•dynamo-electric principle, making it a so-called series- 
dynamo. 

Fig. 264 shows a variation of this machine which has six 
magnetic poles on each side of the disk, and of alternate 
polarity. Unlike poles are placed opposed to the sides of 
the disk. The connections between the sector-shaped bob- 
bins of the armature are as in the bi-polar machine. The 
loops are carried to a combined commutator and collector, 
resembling in principle that of the Hefner- Alteneck disk 
machine for continuous currents. (Page 390.) — K.] 






PART VI. 

LATER ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES FOR THE 
PRODUCTION OF SEVERAL DIVIDED CURRENTS. 

Before auxiliary and differential lamps had been in- 
vented, the division of electric light was effected by pro- 
ducing several currents, independent of one another, and 
into each of these current-circuits one regulator was intro- 
duced. Some of these have already been described, such 
as those of Wallace-Farmery Lontin, etc. • With the last 
named it is only necessary to place several induction- 
wheels on one shaft as an armature, and to provide each 
wheel with a separate current-collector to obtain as many 
independent currents as there are lights to be produced. It 
is also easy to arrange these so that at will the several 
divisions of the armature can be united with one another 
by means of a commutator, or switch, and a current pro- 
duced which is equal to the sum of all the single currents. 
All of the machines we have just mentioned, however, pro- 
duce currents having one direction only. At the same time, 
however, it was the general opinion, as well as that of Lon- 
tin^ that machines giving alternating currents were the 
most advantageous for the production of electric light. 
The advantages which exist for alternating currents we 
have previously mentioned (page 107). Now, however, there 
seems to be no doubt that machines which give continuous 
direct currents are better adapted for use in public illumina- 
tion and in the conservation of power than those which 
give alternating currents. Such men as Crompton and 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 401 

Schuckert assert that alternating current machines can 
never compete with those giving currents of one direction, 
because the latter are said to give more light under similar 
circumstances. But Lontin, from his point of view, con- 
structed alternating current machines which generated 
several small currents, and which have great similarity to 
the machine of Holmes. 

SO, Lontin^s A.ltemating" Current; 
IWCachine. This machine is shown in Fig. 265. It con- 
sists of a hub a, upon which are placed radially twenty-four 
electro-magnetic arms A A. The wire of these electro- 
magnets is so connected that it forms one continuous cir- 
cuit, only interrupted at two ends, and these ends are 
fastened upon two contact rings or cylinders, which are 
well insulated from each other and from the shaft on which 
they are placed. There is an outer ring, upon which are 
fastened radially , but converging toward the centre, twenty- 
four shorter electro-magnets B B, etc. These are connected 
alternately in pairs. In the neighborhood there is placed 
one of Lontin^ s dynamo-electric machines, the current from 
which is conveyed to the movable electro-magnets A by 
brushes, or springs, g and g'. One of these brushes bears 
upon one of the insulated cylinders, and the other upon the 
second cylinder. The current energizes these electro-mag- 
nets, so that they are of alternate north and south polarity. 
By means of a pulley, not shown, this central armature, or 
wheel of electro-magnets, is rotated, and induces currents 
of electricity in the electro-magnets B, which currents have 
alternately positive and negative direction as each magnet 
A passes by. 

The manner of taking the current from the machine, and 
of dividing it, is as follows : The wire ends of the single 
magnets B B are not directly connected with each other, 
but lead separately to opposite sides of the machine, one set 



402 



DYNAMO-ELKCTRIC MACHINES. 



of ends to M, where a movable contact arrangement or 
switch is fastened, and the other set of ends leads to N. 
From M and N the circuit L L' is conducted, in which cir- 
cuit the current does its work. The switch at M has as 



i 




I I 



many branches as the number of currents to be conducted 
from the machine, or as the number of electric lights to be 
supplied. The niunber of these circuits depends upon the 
construction, and upon the number of magnets B. In the 
arrangement shown in Fig. 265, two of these electro-magnets 
deliveJr a current, so the twenty-four magnets constitute 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 403 

twelve circuits, all independent of each other. Each switch 
has two insulated binding-posts m m', which can be con- 
nected at will. At the binding-post m the current leaves 
the machine, and if I be depressed enters the circuit L at 
m'. Besides this arrangement, each contact-closer contains 
another arrangement by which it can be immediately con- 
nected with its neighbor, so that it is possible to so connect 
all the circuits as to form a single circuit at will. On the 
opposite side N of the machine a number of binding-posts 
are situated, in which the other ends of the wires of the 
electro-magnets B are fastened. The great advantage of 
this machine is the facility with which independent cur- 
rents of different strengths can be taken from one appara- 
tus and employed for the production of several electric 
lights of different sizes, and because no contact brushes nor 
commutators are required, with their losses from friction 
and wear. 

With a speed of rotation of 300 turns per minute, the 
machine supports 12 separate circuits. Each of these cir- 
cuits contains a light equal to 100 carcel burners. With 150 
rotations, if 3 circuits each of 8 electro-magnet coils are 
formed, 3 lights are supported, each equivalent to 200 carcel 
burners. 

Special arrangements are made to prevent overheating 
of the machine, which would result at times when only a 
few of the currents were used in the main ; the currents not 
to be utilized are passed through resistance apparatus equal 
to resistance of the lights. 

One of the larger machines of this kind served to illumi- 
nate the railroad depot at Lyons, where it fed 31 lamps 
placed at different points, and each gave a light equal to 4G 
carcel burners. We were unable to ascertain how much 
power was used for running the machine. In another ma- 
chine of this kind, which fed 24 single lights of 200 Carcel 
burners, or 48 lights of 100 Carcel burners, the expenditure 



404 



DYNAMO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



of power was from 20 to 22 horse-power. With smaller 
machines, of 300 to 400 Carcel burners, almost 6 horse- 
power was requisite. Since then, Lontin has made impor- 




tant improvements in his machine, by which it is possible, 
during the working of the machine, to change the strength 
of the currents by hand, that they may run in one direction 
constantly, or alternately, as may be desired ; also, so the 



ALTSJSNATING CURBBNT MACHINES. 405 

currents may be connected, and run either in one circuit, 
or through sepa£ai;e ones. 

The great progress which had been made in the division 
of electric light bj Lontin^s machine, in part, as well as the 
XLumerous :appli£atians of the Jablochkoff candles, induced 
Chramme to laj Aside for a time his eflEorts to improve his 
•djnamo-electrie mcachine, and concentrate his attention on 
the construction ^of a magneto-electric. machine for alter- 
nating currents. He followed in the main the typical forms 
which are given in the machine of the Societe F Alliance 
.and that of Holmes for the production of alternating cur- 
rents, but without simply copying them. On the contrary, 
the details of this new Chramme machine present such 
-advantages that the inventor is entitled to much credit. 

©!.• Grramme's IMacliiiies for* Altei*- 
x&stting' CiiiTreiits, One of these machines is repre- 
sented in Fig. 267, in longitudinal section ; and in Figs. 267 
and 268 partly in cross-section through the lines A B and 
B C ; and in Fig. 270 in diagram, for the purpose of illus- 
trating the course of the circuit. [The measurements on 
Figs. 267 and 268 are in millimetres. — K.] 

Description : (1), two strong circular side walls D, well 
fastened to each other by eight cylindrical cross-bolts of 
copper ; (2), a steel axis F, upon which eight electro-magnet 
cores K K are fastened, by means of a cast-iron ring I 
and two eight-sided cast-iron hubs H H ; (3), a niunber of 
bobbins of copper wire abed, wound closely and placed 
near to each other upon a ring of soft iron, or upon an 
equal number of segmental pieces of soft iron, and held 
together on the outside by a copper ring ; (4), two cylinders 
N fastened upon the axis, and insulated therefrom, upon 
which two wire brushes P, one upon each, press ; (5), two 
thin disks T, which serve the purpose of protecting the 
.armature and strengthening it at the same time ; (6), a base 



406 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



R upon which the entire frame of the machine rests ; (7), a- 
covering of mahogany^ perforated for good ventilation ;: 
(8), a number of smaller parts, having for their objects in- 




crease of the stability of the machine, to protect and oil its 
movable portions, and to insure regularity of running. 
The electro-magnets obtain the electric current necessary 



ALTERNATING GXTBBBNT MACHINES. 



4or 



to magnetize them through two wire brushes P and the 
cylinders N. As a rule, this current is delivered by a com- 
mon Qramme machine for direct currents, but any other 



Fio. 26S. 




Gramme EUctric Machine /or Alternating Currents, 



strong source of electricity may be used, as in the machine 
of Lontin, A Qramme armature may be fastened on the 
axis F, and rotate with it. 

The eight electro-magnets are fastened at equal dis- 
tances upon the axis F, and are provided with plates which 
extend their polar surfaces so that there is but a small 



408 



BYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



fipace between the poles. As the bobbins are wound in 
opposite directions, the neighboring ones will have opposite 
polarity, so that a north pole will have a south pole on 
either side, and vice versa. The thirty-two wire bobbins 
abed are insulated from each other, and each delivers its 

Fro. 969. 




Cram me Machine for Alternatiug Currents, 



•ends to two insulated binding-posts e c'. Fig. 269, so that it is 
possible to take from the machine thirty-two single currents, 
independent of each other, or by appropriately connecting 
the binding posts, sixteen, eight, or even only four cur- 
rents, but of course of greater strength. This is now done 
in the illumination of the Hippodrome and the Place de 
rOpera, etc., in Paris. When the machine is set in motion, 
;the strong radial-magnet poles move closely by the wire 



ti 



ALTBRNATIXQ CURRENT MACHINES. 



409 



Ibobbins abed, and thereby cause induction currents in 
the latter (Sections 8 and 11), the intensity of which de- 
pends upon the strength of the magnet poles and the rapid- 
ity of rotation. The strength of the current in each df the 
bobbins designated by the same letter is the same. If, 
therefore, it is desirable to take four single currents from 
ithe machine, it is only necessary to connect in series the 



Fie. 270. 




Diagram of Gramme Machine /or AlUruatiMg Current*. 

^ight bobbins of the same letter, making four series of eight 
each. These four groups will each deliver a current having 
a tension eight times as great as that of the current from a 
single bobbin. 

If a magnetic north pole approaches a bobbin, a current is 
:generated in the latter having a certain direction ; the neigh- 
boring pole being a south one, approaches a neighboring 
bobbin in which a current of opposite direction is generated. 
If, therefore, it is desired to arrange the machine in such a 
18 



410 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

manner that in all bobbins of like position^ for example, a, 
a current of one direction shall be simultaneously gener- 
ated, the wire of these bobbins must be alternately wound 
in opposite directions. If, however, it is desirable to have 
currents of opposite direction simultaneously in all bobbins 
having the same position relatively to the inducing magnet 
poles, the direction of the wire must be the same. 

Gramme has constructed three different-sized large ma- 
chines according to this system. The first supplies sixteen 
Jdblochkoff candles ; it requires sixteen horse-power to run 
it, including that expended upon the Q-ramme machine 
which is used for magnetizing the electro-magnets. The 
two machines cost $2000. It measures over all 89 centi- 
metres in length, 76 centimetres in width, and 78 centime- 
tres in height, and occupies a space of \ cubic metre. Its 
maximum rapidity of rotation is 600 per minute. It has a 
total weight of 650 kilogrammes. The weight of the copper 
wire on the apparatus is 103 kilogrammes. 

The second machine supplies six Jdblochkoff candles, 
and requires six horse-power to run it, including the power 
of the Oramme charging machine. It costs $1000. It 
measures 70 centimetres long, 40 centimetres wide, and b% 
centimetres high, and occupies a space of 0.15 cubic metres. 
It makes 700 rotations per minute, and weighs 280 kilo- 
grammes ; the copper wire weighs 40 kilogrammes. 

The third machine feeds but four Jablochkoff candles ; 
it requires four horse-power, inclusive of the charging ma- 
chine. The cost of both machines is $700. Its length is 55 
centimetres, its width 40 centimetres, its height 48 centi- 
metres, and it occupies a space of 0.11 cubic metres. It 
makes 800 rotations per minute and weighs 190 kilo- 
grammes ; the weight of effective copper wire* is 28 kilo- 
grammes. 

If a comparison be made between the Oramme systems of 
alternating currents and continuous currents, the following 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 411 

-differences in construction and efficiency will be found. 
In machines of the latter kind, wire bobbins without end, 
wound upon an iron ring, rotate close by the poles of a 
permanent or electro-magnet. The main parts of construc- 
tion are this ring or armature, a current collector, and an 
electro-magnet with opposite poles ; the result is a contin- 
uous current, constant under equal rapidity of rotation, 
and of one direction. The principle of the former machine 
consists in the rotation of the electro-magnets and their 
direct action upon stationary wire bobbins. The essential 
parts of the construction are electro-magnets with simple 
poles and single wire bobbins, separated and well insulated 
from each other, the convolutions of whiqh may have the 
same or opposite direction ; the result is a system of revers- 
ing currents, as in the Alliance machines, etc. ; they may 
be used for the production of the electric arc light, and are 
requisite for supplying the currents to Jablochkoff candles. 

In the alternating current machine which Gramme made 
in 1878, he energized, or ** charged," the movable armature 
by means of a special auxiliary machine giving continuous 
currents. Such an arrangement made transportation more 
difficult and complicated, and had some disadvantages in 
respect to uniformity of the current which produced the 
light in the electric candles. Therefore, he united the 
movable parts of both machines on one axis. This made a 
better and cheaper machine, which insured greater uni- 
formity of action. 

While the arrangement for producing alternating cur- 
rents with six electro-magnets remained the same as in the 
previous one, the machine differed from the older one in 
combining the radial cores so as to make two compound 
magnet poles, in the field of which the Gramme ring is 
rotated, inducing, as in the continuous current machine, 
two poles in the ring armature. (See Fig. 271.) The cur- 
rent generated in the armature is passed through a variable 



412 



DTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



resistance coil, so that the current may be varied in well- 
known way. The convolutions of the wire are so arranged 
that they may be coupled as a single wire in series, or a& 



i 




two or hiore wires in multiple arc, so as to produce either a 
current of tension for small candles, or a current of inten- 
sity for larger candles. 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



413 



No. OF 
EXPBBI- 

UKST. 


Rotations 

FEB 

MmcTE. 


POWKR ni 

KlLOORAM- 

UBTRBS. 


OF 

Candlks. 


Size of Lights 
IN Cabckl 

BmiNBBS. 


1 


1140 


145 


2 


45 


2 


1200 


204 


4 


. 47 


3 


1330 


330 


6 


44 


4 


1400 


380 


8- 


42 


6 


1440 


362 


12 


25 


6 


1360 


310 


8 


38 


7 


1300 


287 


6 


37.5 


8 


1300 


334 


6 


50.2 


9 


1460 


376 


8 


47.2 


10 


1000 


— 


16 


48 


11 


1020 


— 


20 


51 


12 


1200 


— 


25 


31.5 



These machines are now constructed of two sizes. The 
Bmaller ones weigh 280 kilogrammes, and supply 12 candles 
of 20 to 30 Carcel burner size, or 8 of 40 to 50 burner size. 
The larger machines weigh 470 kilogrammes, and supply 24 
candles of 20 to 30, or IG of 40 to 50 burner size. The four 
first experiments given in the table above were made with 
a small machine driven by an Ofto gas engine, and the 
coils were so connected that they formed 2, 3, and 4 separate 
current circuits. The power needed to drive them was 
measured by a Prony brake. The candles had carbons of 
4 millimetres diameter, and they burned for two hours. 
The experiments 5 to 7 were made with the same machine^ 
having the coils connected in series as one circuit. The 
candles had carbons of 3 millimetres diameter, and burned 
for 1\ hours. The division of the light could have been 
continued still further, but by decreasing them to 20 burner 
size the light lost much in regularity of power. The experi- 
ments 8 and 9 were made with a small machine, which was 
driven by a steam engine varying greatly in speed. Sev- 



414 BTNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 

eral candles were extinguished during the course of the 
experiments. This would, however, have been avoided by 
slightly increasing the rapidity of rotation. The experi- 
ments 10, 11, and 12 were made by the SocUte Jablochkoffy 
in Paris, at their shops, with large machines. All the ex- 
periments demonstrated that the new machines gave a 
much steadier light than the ones of the year 1878. 

83. The Jal>locliltoir Alternatingr- 
CiMTent 3^Iacliiiie is shown in Fig. 272. It differs 
from the Gramme Alternating Machine mainly in the form 
of its rotating electro-magnets which are shown in Fig. 273. 
These consist of eight arms radiating from a common axial 
hub, but which are given a helical turn about the hub, and 
wound with insulated wire. " 

As it would be difficult to form these screw-shaped mag- 
nets of one piece, each is built up of a number of iron plates 
having the form of a wheel of eight spokes without tire or 
felloes. Each plate, or form, is from 3 to 4 millimetres 
thick. The required number are set upon the shaft and 
fastened by bolts after each disk has been moved a little 
forward of the previous one in order to get the helical shape. 
Fig. 273 shows this very plainly. A step-shaped surface is 
produced, but which is smoothed off with a file. The eight 
arms are covered with insulated copper wire 3.7 millimetres 
in diameter. Usually the arms 1, 3, 5, and 7 are in one, and 
2, 4, 6, and 8 in another current circuit. The connections 
Are so made that the first group receives north polarity 
and the second group south polarity, so that adjacent arms 
have opposite polarity. The current from a small Qranune 
machine is used to excite the mognet. 

The armature of this machine consists of 16 parts. The 
core of each of these parts is made up of a number of sheet- 
iron strips one millimetre thick, which are separated by 
ditrips of paper. This built-up core is wound with insulated 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



415 



copper wire in a direction perpendiculax to the length of the 
strips. The two free ends of the wire are fastened to two 
ficrews insulated in the iron core. The sixteen parts are 



Fio. S73. 




Jttblachkoff AltemaHng Current Machine. 



then placed in a circle^ like barrel staves, with their ends 
on two brass head-plates, thus forming a hollow cylinder 
within which the before described curiously shaped electro- 
magnet is rotated. The wire of the armature pieces is so 



416 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



wound that it is parallel with the direction of the rotation 
of the electro-magnet. 

The dimensions of the parts of the armature are so cal- 
culated that each can produce a current capable of supply- 
ing a Jablochkoff candle. Each of these parts contains 44 
metres of copper wire of two millimetres diameter and O.a 
ohm resistance. A machine having 16 parts can supply 16 
candles. Large machines with 32 parts for 32 candles are 
built. Generally the wires are led from the screws on each 
part directly to the candle. By this arrangement every 

candle bums independently 

Fio. 878. r J 

of the others, and can be ex- 
tinguished without affecting 
the others. Any number of 
parts may have their wires 
connected in series to form 
one circuit of higher tension. 
In order to burn 16 Jabloch- 
koff candles as high as 60 
normal candles, the electro- 
magnet must be run at a 
speed of 750 rotations per minute, and then it absorbs 14 
horse-power. The entire machine is fastened in a cast- 
iron frame which is 0.61 metre long, 0.50 metre wide, and 
0.64 metre high. The weight of the entire machine is 350 
kilogrammes. 




Electro- Magnet of the Jablochkoff Machine, 



J?si3. The Alternating- Cnirrent ]W[a* 
ehines of Sieniens & Ilalslce. In these ma- 
chines the magnetic field is produced by two crowns of elec- 
tro-magnets having iron cores arranged so that the electro- 
magnets have their unlike poles opposed to each other both 
horizontally and on the circular lines along which they are 
placed. Between the two annularly-arranged sets of poles 
there is a space in which the armature is revolved around its 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



417 



axis. This armature consists of a series of bobbins arranged 
at equal distances concentrically around the axis which is 
common to both armature and crowns of electro-magnets. 
These bobbins are usually fastened to a disk which is rotated 
so as to carry the bobbins between the opposed poles of the 
two crowns of electro-magnets. Currents, such as we have 
considered in § 11, are generated in the bobbins, having 
alternately one and the other direction. 

In order to prevent these currents from neutralizing 
each other, as they would if the bobbins were connected 



Fig. 274. 




PrineipU o/th« N*w AUernaiing Current Machine. 

in regular order, the wire-ends are connected so that the 
wires of alternate ones have one common direction of 
winding and the intermediate ones have in common the 
other direction. This is shown in Fig. 274. In the new 
Siemens Machine, illustrated by Fig. 275, the armature bob- 
bins are wound on wooden cores and contain no iron, be- 
cause, on account of the great intensity of the magnetic 
field and the rapid changes of polarity, the Foucault cur- 
rents in iron cores would cause great loss of power in the 
production of unnecessary heat. In the large machines the 



418 



DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 



bobbins are isolated (not insulated) by thin plates of Gter- 
man silver, which are perforated to allow circulation of air, 
[In the machine now made these plates are of a star-like 
shape, one on each side of each bobbin, and bound together 
with cross-bolts. They serve to preserve the shape of the 



Fio. 27S. 




Siemens ^ Halske Alternating Current Machine^ with Charging Machine, 

bobbins and to fasten them in position. They were formerly 
made the shape of the bobbins and were perforated as 
stated. But local currents were generated in them — ^the 
probable reason for the change. — K.] The beginning-end 
of the wire of the first bobbin is taken to an insulated 
metallic ring on the shaft and the terminating^nd of the 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 419 

last bobbin is taken to a like ring ; so that there is a con- 
tinuous circuit from one ring to the other through the con- 
volutions of the bobbins, but open in the space on the shaft 
between the rings. A brush presses on each ring, and each 
brush has electric connection with a binding post to which 
the wires leading to the external circuit are attached. In 
this way currents are produced in the external circuit hav- 
ing a rapidly to and fro movement, but unsuitable for 
charging or exciting the field electro-magnets. The ma- 
chine is therefore excited by another machine which yields 
currents of constant direction. For this purpose the Sie- 
mens continuous current machine (p. 317) is used. Fig. 275 
shows the manner of combining these two machines. 

At one time these machines were made self -exciting, by 
taking the currents from a number of the bobbins, and by 
means of a commutator and connections turning their cur- 
rents in ouQ direction through the wires of the spools of the 
field-magnets. This plan was abandoned because the sys- 
tem we have just described gave better results. : 

As all the armature bobbins are at all times in the same 
relative position to the field magnet poles, i. e., reach or 
leave them simultaneously, it is plain that they may be 
connected either in series or in multiple arc, according to 
whether currents of high or low tension are desired. Sev- 
eral independent circuits can be supplied by the same ma- 
chine ; to do so the armature bobbins must be separated 
into as many groups as there are circuits to be supplied with 
currents, and the beginning and terminating ends of each 
group must be connected with its special rings on the shaft, 
and their accompanying brushes and connections. The 
inachine shown in Fig. 275 is arranged for two external cir- 
cuits. [Either the terminating or beginning ends of the 
several groups may be brought to one common ring, while 
the individual other ends must ha^e each a ring. In this 
case the external circuits must have like connections. — K.] 



422 BTNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

mounted on the latter, and the ends of the wire of the arma- 
ture bobbins are put into proper connection with theuL 
Springs, or brushes, K, serve to conduct the currents from 
the rings to the external circuits. 

Fio. 218. 




Jahlockkoff Lamp^ Alter naiing-Current Mtuhine^ and Dynamo- Electric Charging- Machine. 

S4r. Tlie Levett-lWCxTller IWCachine. This 
machine was devised for the purpose of producing several 
currents at once, having different intensities and tensions^ 
One of these currents is used to excite the field magnets, 
another for arc-lighting, another for incandescent lighting. 



ALTBBNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



423*- 



and a fourth for electroplating or electrotyping. Each cur- 
rent is independent of the others, and can be regulated as 
desired. The armature is rotated between the opposed 
poles of two crowns of electro-magnets B, Fig. 279. There 
are twelve poles or six magnets. The armature contains 
either twelve or twenty-four bobbins, Which are divided 
into groups of six each. This number corresponds with the^ 
number of field magnets. There are as many groups of 
bobbins as there are currents to be produced — ^two in the^ 

Fig. 279. 




LevHt-MulUr Macki. 



figure. [The figure is a section showing one-half of the^^ 
machine. — K.] The bobbins are constructed of a size and 
length of insulated wire suitable for the desired strength 
and tension of current. As the consecutive magnetic fields 
are of alternating polarity, the consecutive bobbins are 
wound in opposite directions, but the consecutive bobbins^ 
of each group are wound in the same direction. 



424 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIO MACHINES. 



The ends of the wires of each ^oup of bobbins are car- 
. Tied to the divisions of a commutator, so that there are as 
many commutators and pairs of brushes as there are cir- 
4suits. 



Fie. 980. 




Lachauss^e^s AlttmoHng Current Mackint. 



Sc>^ The Lia^clia^usi^^e TMCachine. This 
•differs from the Siemens Machine in the practice of rotating 
the crowns of electro-magnets, while the armature is kept 
stationary between the crowns. The electro-magnets have 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 



425 



-an elliptical shape, with the long diameter of the ellipse 
placed radially to the shaft of the machine. The cores are 
made up of very thin sheet4ron, for the purpose of avoiding 
undue heat, and the ventilation or circulation of air for 
cooling is well provided for. Each bobbin of the armature 
is mortised into a wooden block, as shown in Fig. 281. 
These blocks fit into openings in the drum which encircles 
.the poles of the electro-magnets of the two crowns. The 



Fio.881. 




Am Armature BoOi/in of Lachaussee^ s Machine, 

ordinary machine has twelve electro-magnet poles on each 
crown, and twelve bobbins on the armature. The free ends 
of the bobbins lead to a system of twenty-four binding- 
posts, which are insulated on a plate fastened on top of the 
drum. From these binding-posts the wires to the external 
circuits are led. At these also any combination of circuits 
for intensity or tension can be made. 

While, as stated at the beginning of this Part, alter- 
nating current machines do not utilize the power applied 
to them as efficiently as do the continuous-current machines, 
they seem to have the advantage of being built of any size. 
Very large continuous current machines have not suc- 
ceeded ; the large Edison machines have not been indis- 
putably successful. But alternating current machines have 
been built recently which enable us to draw the conclusion 
that, in all probability, that kind of machines may be made 
.of any size. 



426 DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

SO. Gordon^s -ALlternating- CiM^rent; 
IVEachine. This is the largest machine yet built, and is 
capable of supplying from 5000 to 7000 Swan incandescent 
lamps of twenty candle-power each. It was constructed by 
the Telegraph Construction and Maintainance Company at 
Greenwich, England, after a model which may be followed 
in a still larger construction. This point is of great impor- 
tance, and is too often overlooked by inventors. With a 
small machine, the metallic parts may be so arranged that 
they exert electrically and magnetically no deleterious 
effect, without weakening the meciianical construction to 
any considerable extent. But a machine which uses 600 to 
1000 horse-power must have its moving parts made solid 
and secure. It would be difficult to obtain the necessary 
solidity if no other metal than circuit wires were applicable 
for the armature. 

In Gordon's machine, the field electro-magnets are 
moved while the bobbins which form the armature are sta- 
tionary. In that way the difficulty of constructing a com- 
mutator for currents of 1000 to 10000 amperes, or more, is 
avoided. 

The machine has a strong shaft, to which two disks A of 
boiler-iron are keyed. The disks are 2.67 metres in diam- 
eter, are placed back to back, and are stiffened and braced 
by plates of iron B. Figs. 282, 283, 284, and 285 illustrate 
the machine. Fig. 282 is a perspective, and 283 a side view,, 
one -half in section. Fig. 284 is a longitudinal section. 

The two large disks carry a series of thirty -two electro- 
magnets, arranged concentrically near their periphery. 
The electro-magnets have polarities of alternate order. The 
magnet cores are made of wrought iron, and penetrate the 
combined disks, so that one pole is on one side of the disk, 
and the other pole on the other side. The insulated wire is 
wound on brass spools, which are slipped over the cores, 
and these latter have wedge-shaped pole-pieces of boiler 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 
Fu. S8S. 



427 




Gorthu's Alttmating Current Mocking, 

iron. The wire of the spools has a diameter of 4.7 millime- 
tres, and is provided with a double coating of cotton soaked 



428 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



in shellac and painted with asbestos paint. Layers of wood- 
separate the spools from the disk. 

The armature thus constructed is rotated between two 
circular rows of stationary bobbins, at a distance of 3 milli- 
metres from them. The bobbins are supported on each side 

Fio. 288. 




Side and Sectional Vietv oj (Sordott. Machine, 



of the machine by a cast-iron frame which consists of three 
pieces, one of which is removable, as shown at the top of 
the machine in Fig. 282, When this is removed, the elec- 
tro-magnets may be reached for repairs. There are, in all, 
128 stationary bobbins, G4 on each side, and they are acted 
on inductively by 32 electro-magnets having 64 poles, so 



ALTERNATING CUEBKNT MACHIN'ES. 



that there axe twice as many bobbins as magnet poles. If 
the machine had the same number of bobbins as electro- 



FiG.S&l. 




Longitudinal Stetion of Gordon Machine. 

magnet poles, the inductive action of one bobbin on thoi 
neighboring one would be so strong as to materially reduce; 



430 DYNAMO-ELECTBIG MACHINES. 

the efficiency of the machine. The first machine that was 
built contained an equal number of electro-magnet poles 
and bobbins ; and it was found that the inductive ^tion on 
leaving one bobbin, reduced the number of lamps which 
were run by a neighboring bobbin 25%, and a further 25% 
when the circuit of the next adjacent bobbin was closed. 
This phenomenon has its cause in the inductive action 
which the bobbins exert on each other by the rapid changes 
of current. 

In order to obviate this deleterious action, Gordon re- 
duced the number of electro-magnets to one-half with great 
success. The armature bobbins are divided into two groups 
— the bobbins 1, 3, 5, 7, etc., forming one circuit, and 2, 4, 
6, 8, etc., the other circuit. These two circuits can either 
be used individually, or united in series or multiple arc. 
Each bobbin is wound with insulated copper wire 4.57 miUi- 
metres diameter. The resistance of each bobbin is 0.6 ohm^ 
and by connecting the 128 bobbins in multiple arc, the in- 
ternal resistance is reduced to 0.00047 ohm. 

Fig. 285 shows a portion of the ring and some of the bob- 
bins. In order to save space, the cores are made wedge- 
shape, with the small end pointing towards the shaft. They 
are each made of a piece of wrought sheet-iron bent in the 
shape of a V. The bend forms the sharp edge of the core. 
At the centre of the wedge a T of iron is welded on to give 
stability to the core, and by an extension serves at the same 
time to fasten it to the cast-iron ring by screw-bolts. Be- 
tween the core and the ring a woocten block 75 millimetres 
thick is placed. The bobbins are thereby insulated from 
the frame of the machine ; a point upon which the inventor 
lays great stress. The side of each bobbin which is towards 
the rotating crown of electro-magnets is covered with a 
Oerman silver plate, which is fastened to an extension F 
from the iron core, and is also screwed by long screws to 
the wooden back. This sheeting serves as a protector for 



ALTERNATING CURBENT MACHINES. 



431 



the wires of the bobbin amd for ventilation through open- 
ings which axe only indicated by the broken lines. The 
4Bnds of *the wire convolutions of each bobbin are connected 



Pio. 885. 




Part of Artnaiure of Gordon Machtnt, 

^th two binding-posts set in the wooden backing, so that 
each bobbin may be utilized individually, or in combina- 
tions with others. 

The electro-magnets of the machine are excited by a 
special Biirgin machine. The current therefrom is con- 
ducted to the electro-magnets by meams of two contact 
rings C, which are insulated on each side from the shaft 
by means of vulcanite. 

Engineering^ of the 9th of March, 1883, in speaking of 
the electrical exhibition in the London Aquarium, says in 
relation to this machine : 

**The Biirgin dynamo exciting-machine is driven by a 
^mall 5 horse-power engine, and produces a current of 25 



433 . DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHIKE9* 

amperes. The large engine which driven the* alternating 
current machine, on the day of the experiment (Jan. 17th) 
gave 170 horse-power, according to a Richards' indicator ; 
so that the total consumption of mechanical power was 175 
horse-power. The electromotive force of the machine at the 
binding-posts was 103 volts. There were 1400 Swan lamps 
burning, each having 30 ohms resistance while hot, in two 
circuits with two lamps in series. The total resistance of the 
lamps was therefore 0.085 ohms. The resistance of the circuit 
was 0.006 ohm, and the internal resistance of the machine 
was 0.0075 ohm ; so the total resistance was 0.0985 ohm, or in 
round number 0.1 ohm. As the tension at the binding- 
posts was 103 volts, the strength of current was i^^^ = 1030 
amperes. 

In the photometer room the lamps showed a power of 22 
to 23 candles ; hence there were obtained 1400 x 22^^ = 31500 
candles for 175 indicated horse-power, that is 180 candles 
for each horse-power. 

The electrical energy was C x E = 103 x 1030 = 106090 
volt-amperes; hence, each indicated horse-power gave 
^ViV° = 6^6 volt-amperes. 

Finally, as one English electrical, horse-power equals 746 
volt-amperes, the useful utilized labor was m = 0.816. It 
must be noticed that this figure gives the real proportion of 
the • mechanical energy indicated in the cylinder of the 
engine to the electrical energy produced by the alternating 
current machine. If the energy actually transferred from 
the engine to the alternating current machine be taken into 
account, the utilization would be increased 10 per centum.'* 

[As the total resistance of the circuit was 0.1 ohm, of 
which 0.085 was in the lamps, it follows that ^J-»- = .85 of 
the total electric energy was utilized in the lamps; or 
0.816 X .85 = .6936 = nearly 70 per cent, of the total mechan- 
ical energy expended was utilized at the lamps. This is a 
high duty.— K.] 



ALTERNATING CURBBNT MACHINES. 433 

ST". The Ferranti-Thomson Alter- 
fia^ting- CiMTent ]\f!a,cliiiie. This machine resem- 
bles the Siemens machine somewhat. The magnetic field is 
the same, being produced by two crowns of electro-magnets, 
associated so that imlike poles are opposed. Fig. 286 is a 
view of this machine, which plainly shows the similarity. 
The difference lies in the armature, which is not made up 




of wire spools or bobbins, as in the Siemens machine, but 
of copper strips or ribbons, bent in a zigzag shape, super- 
imposed in twelve layers, and insulated from each other by 
strips or ribbons of rubber. These copper strips, which take 
the place of the usual wire bobbins, are 12.5 millimetres 
wide and 2 millimetres thick. They are sometimes wound 
on a wooden frame. Fig. 288 shows another method of 
fastening the armature strips, which is given by W, Thom- 
son. K is a ring of iron, which is provided with the projec- 
19 



434 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES^ 




Diagram o/FtrratUi- Thomson Mackiiu. 

tions M, and around these the strips W are placed in the 
manner described. The spaces between the radial strips 
are hence filled with iron which becomes magnetic through 
the influence of the electro-magnets and so the inductive 
action is strengthened. As the diagram, Fig. 288, shows, 
the radial portions of the conductor strips are equaUj 

Fio. S88. 




3S2 



Tr 



w v/ 



ArtfuUurt o/ Ferranii'TAomson Mocking, 



ALTERNATING CURBBNT MACHINES. 435 

spaced with the field-magnet poles. When, by the rotation, 
one radial part approaches a north pole, the two neighbor- 
ing radial parts approach equally a south pole ; and there- 
fore currents of opposite direction are generated in the 
several parts which join to form one current of zigzag 
course following the circuit. As the armature moves the 
distance between two magnet poles, it passes from a mag- 
netic field of one kind to that of another, so that with this 
reversal of polarity there is a reversal of the direction of 
the current in all the circuit. The alternating currents so 
produced are led to the external circuit through two con- 
tact rings insulated on the shaft amd springs bearing on the 
rings. 

^* Engineering^^ speaks of the machine exhibited at the 
London Aquarium as follows : 

"The machine is set up under the swimming basin and 
feeds 320 Swan lamps, which illuminate the basin and the 
restaurant gallery. It rotates 1900 times per minute, and is 
driven by two 8-inch belts, which run with a speed of 6000 
feet per minute. Notwithstanding this rapidity, the lamps 
are not sufficiently supplied ; they bum visibly more red 
than the gas-jets in the same place. It is not at present 
possible to say how much power the machine consumes, 
but it is to be plainly seen that it is much more than the 32 
horse-power which the lamps require. Each belt could 
under legitimate calculation transmit about 50 horse-power, 
and the contrast between the extent of transmission and 
the light produced is remarkable. The machine itself is too 
small to receive much power without becoming heated. A 
considerable portion of the energy absorbed can be found in 
the enormous volume of heated air which is thrown out in 
all directions by the armature. It is natural that every 
dynamo should produce a considerable draught of air, but 
we have rarely ever seen one which produced such a volume 
ijl current of air and so hot." 



436 DYNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 

This report is in peculiar contrast with the praise which 
was given the machine when it was brought into the 
market under the auspices of its inventors, Sir William 
Thomson, Prof. S. P. Thomson and Ferranti. It seems that 
with this machine the practicable velocity has been over- 
reached, so that, notwithstanding the theoretically correct 
construction, no practical success has been attained. The 
published electrical measurements are as follows : 

Resistance of the armature 0.0265 ohm. 

" '• lamp circuit 0.7785 " 

Tension at the binding posts 12o volts. 

Strength of current 156 ampdres. 

Number of Swan lamps in use 800 

" " rotations of armature 1900 

Horse-power consumed 28 

Weight of armature 5.120 kilos. 

per lamp 0.016 

As seen from the report quoted from Engineering the 
power used is here stated much too low. 

The last figure is the most interesting, as it gives 16 
grammes weight of armature for one lamp. This small 
weight is used with a very intense magnetic field of force, 
which to produce requires the more wire. According to 
data given in the Electrical Review the entire wire on the 
Ferranti machine for 300 lamps weighs 290 pounds ; and on 
the Gordon machine for 7000, 5876 pounds. There are, 
therefore, for one Swan lamp on the Ferranti machine 437 
grammes of wire ; and on the Gordon machine only 348 
grammes. The Gordon machine weighs 18.3 tons, or 18300 
kilogrammes ; and the Ferranti machine weighs only 597 
kilogrammes. These figures show to the Gordon machine 
2.6 kilogrammes and to the Ferranti machine 1.98 kilo- 
grammes per Swan lamp. 

The large machines require much less electrical material, 
and their greater weight results from greater mechanical 
solidity. 



DI8X-ARMATUBB MACHINES. 



437 



{S8. !E2di«M>ii'si I>isk-]\f;cteliines. These ma- 
chines are devised to cause the conductors of the armature 
to cut the magnetic lines of force at right angles. One 
of these is shown in diagram by Figs. 289, 290, and 291, and 
is thus described : 

" The object in view is to produce a dynamo or magneto- 
<electric machine the armature of which will be in the form 
of a disk, which armature will be stiff and strong, will not 
hoiat in its core in use, will permit the bringing of the polar 
•extensions of the magnet or magnets close together, so as 
to form an intense magnetic field, and in which machine 

F». 989. 




EditoiCs DUk-Armoiuri Mackin*, 



the inductive bars of the armature will be connected to 
generate a continuous current in one direction of high 
electromotive force, and will further be connected with the 
collector bars and with each other in multiple arc, in 
order to reduce to the minimum the internal resistimce of 
the machine. 

** The naked copper inductive bars are double or in two 
parts, connected together at their inner ends, and having 
offset-arms at their outer ends for connecting with the sur- 



438 



PYNAMO-BLi;CTEIC MACHINES. 



rounding concentric rings. A number of these doubler 
radial bars are arranged in the form of a disk and secured 
to a suitable hub, the bars being insulated both from the 
hub and from each other. At their inner ends the double 
bars are connected to insulated metal disks (the nearly- 
opposite double bars being connected in pairs by the disks), 
and the disks have tongues which make connection with or 
form the bars of the collector-cylinder. The core of the 
armature is constructed by winding strips of iron and paper 

Fie. »o. 




Sections of Edison^s Armature. 

together, in spiral form, between such double bars, such 
core preventing the circulation of magnetic currents therein 
and the loss of energy caused by the generation of heat in 
such core. The effect is assisted by the fact that the iron 
portion of the core does not cut the lines of force at right 
angles. The polar extensions of two electro-magnets are 
arranged on each side of the disk-armature. Outside of 
the polar extensions the terminal double bar of each con- 
nected pair of double bars is connected with the initial 
double bar of another pair by concentric rings which are 



DISK-ABMATUBB MACHINES. 



439^ 



necurlj outside the magnetic field and do not cut the lines of 
force at right angles. 

" The construction is also well adapted for electro-mo- 
tors, and, whether as a motor or electrical generator, it has 
the advantage of great lateral compactness. 

" Fig. 289 is a horizontal section of the machine, the 
collector brushes or springs being omitted, and the mag- 
nets being broken away ; Fig. 290, a vertical section of the 
armature, and Fig. 291 a side elevation of the armature 



Pio. 291. 




End View of EdisotCs Disk- Armature. 



" A is the shaft journaled in suitable bearings. 

" B is the hub suitably secured to the shaft-, and having 
attached to it the double inductive bars C, of naked copper. 
These bars are connected at their inner ends, and are in- 
sulated from the hub and from each other. The bars G 
have projecting conductors a extending to insulated metal 
disks D. The bars C are connected in pairs with the bars 
nearest a diametrically-opposite position, and each disk has 
a tongue, 6, which is connected with or forms one of the 
bars of the collector cylinder E. For ease of illustration. 



440 DTHAMO-XIiKCTBIC MACHIVX8. 

only two of such tongues are shown in Fig. 289. The core 
. F of the armature is made by winding spirally together 
strips qf iron and paper. Bolts c may be employed to assist 
in securing the bars and core together. The double bars C 
have offset-arms d for making connection with the concen- 
tric rings H, which surround the core. Each ring connects 
the terminal bar of one pair of connected opposite double 
bars with the initial bar of another pair. Hence there are 
half as many rings as bars. The polar extensions N 3 of 
the electro-magnets I K are brought close up to the induc- 
tive bars. 

"The bars are connected and the path of the current is 
as follows (see Fig. 291) : One portion of the current will 
pass from the negative to the positive commutator-brush 
via 1, H', 11, 2, H8, 12, 5, H", 14, 7, H«, and 16, and the other 
portion via 8, H^, 15, 6, H», 13, 4, H*, 10, 3, ff, and 9." 

Another of Mr. Edison's Disk Machines is illustrated by 
Figs. 2n and 293. 

Copper disks form the inductive portion of the revolving 
armature, from which a continuous current of electricity is 
taken. " These copper disks are arranged in two sets placed 
on opposite sides of an iron plate, which is of circular shape 
and forms the core of the armature. The disks are securely 
clamped together and to this central plate or core, properly 
insulating disks being placed between the separate disks 
and also next to the core. The exciting magnet has its 
polar extensions placed on opposite sides of the peculiar 
armature, and these are extended on the sides of the arma- 
ture toward the shaft of the same, the extended sides being 
beveled, so that the direct attractive force between such 
polar extensions will be small compared with that between 
the polar extensions and the core of the armature. The 
copper disks on one side of the central plate or core all have 
currents set up in the same direction, but in the opposite 
direction to those on the other side. Cross-connections are 



DICK-ARMATURE MACHINES. 



441 



provided at the periphery of the disks, which connect 
the disks in series, so that an electromotive force is 
generated, due to all the disks, and connections are made 
with the collector cylinder upon which bear the collector 
brushes. 

The foregoing will be better understood from the draw- 
ings. Fig. 292 is a vertical cross-section of the machine on 
the line of the armature shaft ; Fig. 293 an elevation of the 
collector end, the collector cylinder being in section. 




Bdiaot^s Disk-Armaturt Mocking. 



N S are the polar extensions of the field magnet A, which 
is mounted upon a suitable base B. These polar extensions 
are hollowed out on their inner faces, forming chambers 
which inclose opposite portions of the armature and through 
which said armature revolves. The sides of the polar ex- 
tensions N S are beveled, as shown at a, so as to reduce the 
attractive force acting directly across between the polar 



442 DYNAMO-ELEGTBIC MACHINES. 

extensions. The armature is composed of an iron core C^ 
which is a circular plate keyed to the shaft D, and two sets. 
E F of copper disks. These disks are placed on opposite 
sides of the central plate or core C, and are insulated from 
each other and from the core by disks G of insulating mate- 
rial, preferably of paper. The disks are clamped together 
amd to the core by brass screw-rings 6, turning: on the ends 
of the extended hub c of the core ; but the disks may be 
secured in addition by bolts passing directly through them. 
The disks have projections d e on their periphery. The 
projections of the two sets of dkhs are joined by cross- 
connections, so that the disks will be connected in a continu- 
ous and symmetrical series. H is the collector cylinder, to 
which the disks are connected by rods or plates /, the alter- 
nate connections of the disks with each other being shown 
as thus connected with the bars of the collector cylinder. 
The lines of force at each pole of the exciting magnet move 
between the pole and the core of the armature on each side 

of said core. The disks of each set 
cut in opposite direction on their 
opposite portions the lines of force 
from the opposite poles of the mag- 
net. Hence the currents gener- 
ated in the disks of each set flow 
all in the same direction. The 
disks of one set cut in each field 
lines of force moving in the oppo- 
site direction from those cut by 
disks of the other set in the same 
field. Hence the currents generated in one set of disks 
flow in the opposite direction to those generated in the other 
set. This armature, it will be seen, has an exceedingly low 
resistance, and is compact and strong. 

Another of Mr. Edison's Disk Machines is illustrated by 
Figs. 294 and 295. 




DISK-ARMATURE MACHINES. 



443 



A series of copper disks insulated from each other are 
secured to one side of a cast-iron plate or disk which forms 
the magnetic portion or core of the armature. The copper 
disks and iron plate revolve together in chambers in the 
opposite polar extensions of an exciting magnet, such polar 
extensions being beveled on their approaching sides, so that 



Fie. 294. 




Edison's Disk- Armature Mackint, 

intense magnetic fields will be formed between the polar 
extensions and opposite portions of the iron plate, and but 
little force will be expended directly across between the 
poles of the magnet. The currents generated in each disk 
in the opposite fields of force flow in the same direction, 
and the disks being all on one side of the iron plate, their 
currents all flow the same way. To connect up such disks 
so as to produce a continuous current having a tension due 
to all the disks, exterior copper rings are used which couple 



444 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the disks in series. The disks are connected with the bars- 
of the collector cylinder by rods or plates passing to pro- 
jections in central openings of the disks, or to the exterior 
ring connections. 

The foregoing will be better understood from the draw- 
ings, in which Fig. 294 is a vertical section through tho. 

Pro. 9»\ 




End ^ Didb-Armature, 

armature and the polar extensions of the exciting magnet ; 
Fig. 295, a separate elevation of the armature from the 
collector end, the collector cylinder being in vertical sec- 
tion. 

N S are the polar extensions of the exciting magnet, 
chambered or hollowed out, as shown, to inclose opposite 
portions of the armature, and having beveled sides a, so as 
to reduce the width of its approaching faces and reduce the 
attractive force acting directly across between the polar 
extensions. The armature has a cast-iron plate or disk B, 
mounted upon a shaft C. Secured to one side of this iron 
plate by bolts or otherwise are a number of copper disks D, 
which are insulated from each other and from the iron 
plate, preferably by means of paper disks. A number of 
copper rings or segments of rings E, are supported by the 
rim of plate B and connect the copper disks in a continuous 



MAGNETO -ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



445^ 



series. The disks are connected with the bars of collector 
cylinder F by strips or rods 6 extending from the open 
centers of the disks to such collector bars.— K.] 



Fio. 2flr.. 




*^\^^ ^ I 1 'M M ■ 



Edison's Magneto- Electric Machine. 



[SO. Mr. Edison has devised a novel magneto-electric 
machine, the electro-magnet of which is rotated while 
receiving current from some extraneous source. He thus 
describes it : 



446 DrNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 

**In this machine I employ a cylinder the surface of 
which is covered with a coil of wire wound around it length- 
wise and parallel to the axis of rotation. The electric cur- 
rent, passing through the coil, converts the cylinder into a 
magnet. . One side of the cylinder is of north polarity and 
the opposite side is of south polarity. A shell of iron is 
employed, within which this magnetic cylinder is revolved, 
and by induction the shell becomes magnetized. Hence the 
magnetic forces in the shell revolve around the same in 
Jiarmony with the revolving magnetic cylinder. 




Editon^s Magneto- Electric Machine. 

" There is a space between the revolving magnetic cylin- 
der and the inside of the shell, withiA which space there 
are longitudinal wires connected in a peculiar manner to 
the collector, and in the wires an induced current is set 
up in consequence of the revolving magnetic forces cross- 
ing and cutting these wires as the magnetic cylinder 
revolves within the shell, and from the collector the current 
is taken to the line-wires. 

*' Fig. 296 is a plan of the magneto-electric machine com- 
plete. Fig. 297 is a cross-section of the same at the line x x. 
Fig. 298 is a plan of the revolving field magnet. Fig. 299 is 
an end view of the same. Fig. 300 is a plan of the shell 
surrounding the field magnet and the induction coil. Fig. 



MAONBTO-BLBGTRIC MACHINES. 



447 



301 is an end view of the same. Fig. 303 is a diagram 
showing the manner of winding the induction ooil, and Fig, 
202 is a diagram of the circuit connections. 



Fio. 208. 



Fio. 800. 




Fio 299. 




Fie. 801. 




Details of Edison^ s Magneto- Electric Machine. 

** The shaft a is provided with a cylinder 6 of iron. It 
may be either solid or hollow, and made of cast-iron or 
coiled iron wire. The same is wound with a parallel coil of 
insulated wire, the wire passing from the shaft radially, 
then along one side of the cylinder, across the other end. 



448 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



back again on the other side and across the end, and so on 
until the entire surface of the cylinder is covered with wires 
that are parallel, or nearly so, to the axis of the cylinder. 
One end of this insulated wire passes along the shaft in a 
groove to the insulated ring a' and the other is connected to 
the collector spring or brush n that is insulated upon a 
disk g afiSxed to and rotating with the shaft a. The other 
collector spring x is connected to the ring d upon the 
shaft a. The spring d' rests against the ring d, and to it the 
line-wire 3 is connected, and the spring g' rests against 



Fto 




the ring a', and to it the ground or 
return wire 4 is connected, or vice 
versa. 

Fio. 808. 
1, * 




Winding of Edison^ s Magnt to- Electric Machine. 

**It is to be understood that this magneto-electric ma- 
chine may be employed in a circuit containing electric 
lights, or any other instrument or device operated by elec- 
tricity to which the current generated may be adapted. 

" The shaft a is mounted in bearings or a frame A, and 
revolved by competent power. The shell I is made of coiled 
iron wire or of iron rings secured together by bolts 5 ; and 
between the rings there are sheets of paper or other insu- 
lating material to separate the rings and prevent the mag- 
netic currents circulating in the direction of the axis of 
rotation ; but the rings are each magnetized by induction 



MAGNBTO-ELBOTBIC MACHINES. U9 

from the magnetic cylinder 6, and the lines of magnetic 
force radiate from the cylinder to the rings, and as the cyl- 
inder 6 revolves within the shell, these lines of magnetic 
force are moving around rapidly with the magnetic cyl- 
inder. 

" In magneto-electric machines the most potential cur- 
rents are set up in wires that are moved across the lines of 
m€tgnetic force. I therefore place longitudinal wires in the 
space between the revolving magnetic cylinder and the 
shell, so that such wires are crossed by the lines of mag- 
netic force as the same revolve. 

" The induction coil is composed of the parallel wires s 
upon the surface of the thin cylinder t Such wires cross 
the end of the cylinder t at the opposite end to where the 
collector bars u are placed, and at the collector such wires 
are united to the circular range of bars u, that are insu- 
lated, and upon which the springs n and x rest. 

'* The wire of the parallel induction helix is substantially 
endless, and it is wound with reference to obtaining a con- 
tinuous current. The diagram, Fig. 302, illustrates the 
manner of winding the wires. The number of parallel 
coils may be more or less than that shown ; but I find the 
object desired can be attained the best by using an even 
number of parallel coils longitudinally of the case and an 
odd nimiber of collector plates. The current set up in 
coils within the magnetic field of the north pole will be all 
in one direction, and the currents set up in the coils within 
the field of the south pole will be all in the other direction. 
I wind the wires in such a manner that, while the wire is 
continuous and the current flowing through the whole of it, 
the current will pass by two wires of the induction coil to 
one collector plate and then away, and will enter by an 
opposite collector plate and pass by two wires out into 
the coil and circulate through the same to the other col- 
lector plate. Suppose the springs to rest upon collector 



450 DYNAMO-BLBOTRIC MACHINES. 

plates a and e. The current will flow toward a from wires 
1 and 6 and away from e by wires 12 and 7. By following 
the arrows it will be found that the entire coil is a com- 
plete circuity in which the parallel portions of the wires 
in the south field of magnetic influence have a current 
energized in one direction and in the north field in the 
other direction, thus obtaining the dynamic effect, and 
there is no break or pulsation of the current. The springs 
touch one collector before leaving another. 

" Of course the current is reversed in the parallel por- 
tions of the wires successively. For instance, the current 
in 7 and 14 is reversed as the magnets and brushes travel 
around together. As the spring passes from e to d, the cur- 
rent in 14 is reversed and passes out from d by 14 and to 7 
in the reverse direction and to 12, as before. As the spring 
passes from a to g, the current in 8 and 7 is reversed. It 
passes from 6, as before, and, crossing, is reversed in 1, and 
returning in 8 in opposite direction is taken off by g. The 
dotted arrows indicate these successive changes of direc- 
tion, whereby the currents are made to flow by two wires 
to each collector in succession from the entire magnetic 
fleld. The current will flow from spring g' through o', 
thence through the parallel coils of wires around the cylin- 
der 6 to the collector n, thence by the bar upon which it 
rests along the parallel induction coil at one side of the 
cylinder i, returning along the other side to the collector 
bar and by the spring x to the ring d and spring d' to the 
line. 

''It is to be borne in mind that the parallel induction 
coil Sy cylinder 6, and collector bars u remain stationary, 
and the collector springs n x revolve around the bars u, 
being turned by the shaft a, and the collector springs are 
to be located with reference to the revolving magnetic 
cylinder, so as to take off the current at the place of great- 
est energy. The current will be continuous, or nearly so, 



ALTERNATING CURRENT MACHINES. 451 

and travel in one direction. There will, however, some- 
times be a sparking on the collector bars when the circuit 
of the parallel induction coil is interrupted ; but this will be 
lessened by having the collector springs bent to rest on more 
than one collector bar. 

" It will be apparent that the shell and parallel induction 
coil may be revolved if the magnetic cylinder remains sta- 
tionary or revolves in the opposite direction ; and I remark 
that the cylinder supporting the parallel induction coil s 
may be of any suitable material, but I prefer and use vul- 
canized fiber. 

"The parts of this machine are not liable to become 
heated under ordinary circumstances of use, because the 
wires are not wound one on the other, and the atmosphere 
has an opportunity to circulate. I however apply a fan in 
some instances upon the shaft a within a case communi- 
cating with the internal portions of the machine, so as to 
induce a current of air through the same.'* — K.] 

[QO. Hoelilistiisen'is 13isk: IVEstcliines. 

Wm. Hochhausen, whose dynamos we have described on 
pages 277 to 298, has invented some novel constructions of 
disk machines, which we illustrate in Figs. 304, 305, 
and 306. 

The top part of Fig. 304 is a longitudinal section, and the 
bottom part a transverse section of one of these machines 
which he has put to practical use. B^ and B^ represent 
annular iron frames, to which are attached the electro- 
magnetic cores C O. These latter have a sector-shaped 
cross-section, as shown in the lower figure. They are six- 
teen in number, and the poles are alternated circularly, and 
opposite ones are placed on the two sides of the disk arma- 
ture. In the intense magnetic field so constituted, the 
armature is rotated. This is made up of pieces of sheet- 
copper, cut in the eight-armed star-like form shown. Sev- 



452 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



eral of these pieces are cut out and are connected together 
by cutting each one at a given point, and connecting the 
terminating-end of one piece to the beginning-end of the 
next piece by hard-soldering, so that they are all connected 
together in series somewhat like the spiral shown at 4 in 




HochkatueiCs DiskMackine. 



the figure and made of the cut flat-rings also shown at 3 in 
the figure. A like spiral of insulating material, say paper, 
is made, and used between the layers of the copper spiral 
for insulation. The whole is then closed up and bolted 
together and to the hub-flanges D by the insulated bolts wi. 
The two extreme ends are then taken by the wires F and P 
to the rings n n, from which the alternating currents are 



ALTEBNATINO CURBBNT 




453 



^carried to the external circuit. A commutator F and 
l)rushes G are provided so that the armature may be con- 
nected in series with the field-magnet coils for self -excita- 
tion. A maohine of this description, charged by a Hoch- 



Fio.aos. 




Hockhausen't Disk- Armature Machine. 

hausen Dynamo, Fig. 166, with a current of 10 amperes, had 
.the following dimensions and performed as stated : 

Total Weight.. 600 pounds. 

Weight of Copper in Armature 26 *' 

Armature of Twelve Plates of Copper No. 15, B. & S. gauge. 

Electromotive Force 60 volts. 

Current 800 amperes. 

Resistance of Armature 0.016 ohm. 

Resistance of Magnet Coils, in Series 4.12 ohms. 

iSupplied Swan Lamps 250 

Pig. 306 shows a cross-section and Fig. 305 a longitudi- 
nal section of a variation of this machine, in which the 
field magnets are placed radially to the axis instead of par- 



454 



BYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



allel thereto. One plate only is rotated between the op- 
posed poles of two adjacent series, but as there are three or 
more series of magnets, the connections between the plates 
are made as shown in the small diagram. A commutator 





HochhaM*en*s Disk-Armature Machint. 



and contact wheels are provided, as in case of the other 
variety, so that a portion of the currents may be used to 
energize the field magnets, while the remainder goes to 
supply lamps in the external circuit. — K.] 



Ol. The Elphlnstone And Vincent 
I\i[a.oliine exhibited at the Crystal Palace in London 
excited some interest. The inductor, or armature, is a 



UNIPOLAR MACHINE. 455 

Gramme ring, except that its core is not of iron, but made 
of papier macM ; the winding is also peculiar. The mag- 
netic field is a composite one like that of the GHilcher ma- 
chine. There are six north and six south poles which alter- 
nate on the circumference of the ring. They are formed by 
electro-magnets which are set radially to the ring and give 
a peculiar aspect to the machine. The magnetic field is 
strengthened by electro-magnets in the interior of the 
armature, as in the Jurgensen machine. These are fastened 
on a spindle within the ring armature, and are twelve in 
number, with poles alternating circumf erentially and placed 
on radial lines opposite the external poles of like name. 
In this way a very intense annular magnetic field is pro- 
duced, in which the Gramme armature is rotated. Six 
brushes are used to take off the currents. 

The inventors say that the machine gives a very high 
eflSciency, and that they can be built of any size. As to 
this point, we will have to wait for further experiments to 
be made. The machine has certain difiScult details of con- 
struction, as, for instance, in the secure fastening of the 
armature so that it may move through the limited annular 
space without rubbing against the inner or outer electro- 
magnet poles. The eflSciency of a machine, on the whole, 
is proportional to the weight of copper which forms the 
convolutions of the armature, and especial attention must 
be given to this point in the construction of large machines. 
And further, the large number of brushes are not a recom- 
mendation for the machine. In this respect the alternating 
current machines made by Oordon, which have no brushes 
at all, but conduct the current directly from the armature 
to the external circuit, have a great advantage over all 
other machines. 

03. The TJnipolax* IMEctotiine. The first 
dynamo-electric machine was unipolar. Though neglected 



456 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



until now, it has lately come to the fore. Faraday showed 
. in 1831 that a copper disk rotated between two magnetic 
poles produced a continuous electric current. He also 
showed that the same effect was produced when an electro- 
magnet was used in place of the permanent one, and that a 
conductor revolved around one pole of a magnet had a cur- 
rent of one direction generated^in it. 



• G. SOT 




Unipolar Mocking t/Sitmem ^ Halskt, 

The form of, Faraday's machine is not practical for sev- 
eral reasons, and therefore has not come into use. Only 
very recently Siemens & Halske have succeeded in con- 
structing a unipolar machine which has a possible chance 
for technical uses. It is shown in Fig. 307. The machine 
has for inductors, or armatures, two copper cylindrical 
tubes which are slotted longitudinally in order to avoid 



UNIPOLAK MACHINB. 457 

•deleterious extra currents ; and the inner and outer surfaces 
of the tubes are presented to magnetic surfaces. 

The inner planes are the limbs of a U-shaped electro- 
magnet. Another electro-magnet core is placed between 
these tubes^ and each of its poles is made to almost surround 
one or the other of the upper tubes. Each tube, in revolv- 
ing around an inner metgnetic pole, moves through the 
magnetic field between that pole and the outer one which is 
of opposite polarity. 

The currents delivered by this machine are of very low 
tension, about 4 or 5 volts, but of great intensity, suitable 
for galvanoplastic operations. The tubes are cut longitudi- 
nally in strips which are electrically connected in series by 
contact rings and brushes. 

Other so-called unipolar machines have been devised by 
Varley, E. L. Voice and Ball, but they have not yet attained 
any technical importance. 

In the foregoing x>ages we have discussed almost all of 
the more important dynamo and magneto-electric machines. 
In making our selection we have been guided by the fol- 
lowing-named requirements : Great historical or theoretical 
interest ; the new in principle ; and extensive technical ap- 
plication. We have neglected a large number of machines 
from absence of these requirements, and because they have 
not yet emerged from the slight requirements for patent- 
ability. 

In the following section we shall among other things 
classify the machines, and it will bf shown that from the 
Apparent confusion but a few types can be shown. 



PART VII. 

THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

The method of action of a given dynamo-electric ma- 
chine is dependent upon a great number of conditions, so 
much so as to make it impossible to reason a priori on its 
efficiency. Hence all theories based simply on analytical 
inductions are to be avoided, and only those to be consid- 
ered which are based upon experience and the results ob- 
tained by using the machine in question. A great number 
of measurements have been made of a great nimiber of 
machines, but the data gained refer only to the individual 
machines, and it is impossible to say what is due to the 
individuality and what is due to the machines in conmion. 
A great service to science was rendered by Dr. O. Frdlich 
when he undertook, in the establishment of Siemens & 
Halske, to ascertain the desired facts by instituting a num- 
ber of experiments with many machines, and with "many 
variations of conditions such as are necessary for a knowl- 
edge of the theory of their action. These experimental 
data, which have become foundational and indispensable 
for understanding the theory of dynamo machines, were 
obtained in the sunmier of 1880, and were published in dis 
Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift and in other publications. 
The theory which Frdlich based upon his experimental 
results has since been generally adopted, and in the follow- 
ing pages we shall emphasize the main points. Besides 
Frdlich' s an extended theory has been propounded by Marcel 
Deprez. At first it seemed that the latter deviated ma- 



THEORY OF D YNAHO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 459 

teriallj from Frolich, but from late publications it seems 
that Deprez also accepts |t. He only selects a somewhat 
different form, which is perhaps better adapted to his pur- 
pose. Deprez has formulated his theory with special rela- 
tion to the transmission of power ; and we will therefore 
^ve our attention to his theory also in ihe proper place, 
giving the first place to FrolicVa theory. 

03. I^ropoirtloiis for DynAmo-Klec- 
tric EqiiilibiriTxiii. "If Ohm's law be applied to a 
magneto-electric machine (machine with permanent mag- 
nets) connected with an external resistance, this formula is 
obtained : 

1. a = ^. 

C represents the current (intensity) ; v the number of 
rotations ; R the total resistance ; n the number of convolu- 
tions of the armature ; and Jf, Frolich defines as the pro- 
portion of the electromotive force to the number of rota- 
tions, and calls it the '* effective magnetism," This last 
term is the sum of the electromotive force which the per- 
manent magnet and the iron of the armature exert upon 
one convolution of the armature during one rotation. The 
same formula also applies to dynamo-electric machines, but 
in this case it is necessary to add, as it produces its own 
magnetism, this formula : 

2. Jf=7(C), 
while in the case of the magfneto machine M is almost a 
constant value. The formula 1 is at the same time the 
same as the dynamo-electric equilibriimi ; for at the time 
of starting the machine, that is, at the time of commence- 
ment of current, before arriving at the permanent con- 
dition, the current produced by the magnetism momentarily 

present, — ^r- is always greater than the current necessary 
to keep up that magnetism, so the values of the two cur- 



460 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

rents axe only then equal when the stationary condition: 
has been attained, as in the dynamo-electric equilibrium. 
The equation 1, written in this form, 
C _ C _v 
nW^ f{C) ""12' 

contains the substance of this statement. The strength of 
the current is only a function of the proportion of the num- 
ber of rotations to the total resistance. This statement 
applies to all dynamo-electric machines, and for any desired 
position of the commutator, and hence, is the foundation 
equation for these machines. 

The equation 1 also accounts for the individual working 
capacity of any machine. 

The only quantity which defines the individuality of a 
machine is the product of the effective magnetism, M, and 
the number of convolutions, n, of the armature. If this 
latter number be given, and the effective magnetism as 
the function of force of current for a certain machine and 
certain positions of the commutator be known, the strength 
of current can always be calculated from the number of 
rotations and total resistance. 

Equation 1 also shows what shape this function must have 
in order to make the machine as serviceable as possible. 

If the effective magnetism was simply proportional to 
the strength of the current, equation 1 would have no 
application, as in such a case there is generally no sta- 
tionary condition. The current would grow infinitely. 
Dynamo-electric equilibrium, hence, only takes place when 
the magnetism differs in proportion from the strength of 
current, which, in reality, is always the case. If we put 
nM = cC ^ <p{C), in which case <p{C) denotes the aberration, 
then equation 1 becomes 

v^ 1 



THEORY OF DYKAMO-ELECTRIC MACBTIKES. 461 

Therefore it follows, that for a certain strength of current, 
the smaller the number of rotations the smaller will be the 
variation of the magnetism from the proportion. A dynamo- 
electric machine is, hence, the more nearly perfect the nearer 
the effective magnetism is in proportion to the strength of 
current 

04. rrestingr the Equation of EqixUib- 
i*iiim. One of the largest-size dynamo-electric machines 
made by Siemens & Halske (model Do) was used in extensive 
experiments made to test the truth of the main equation by 
varying as much as possible the number of rotations and 
the resistance, at the same time measuring the respective^ 
strengths of current. 



Wind- 
ing. 


Magnet Cores. 


Arxatvre. 


Total 
Resist. 

ANCE OP 

Machines 


Average 
Distance 
of the 
Convolu- 
tions from 
the iron. 

r 


N amber 

of 
Convolu- 
tions. 

m 


Resist- 
ance. 

S 


Number 
' of 
Convolu- 
tions. 

n 


Resist- 
ance. 

a 


I 

II 
III 


mm 
10.5 
21 
14 


456 

856 

1960 


U 

0.290 
0.580 
4.14 


288 

288 

1296 


u 

0.145 
0.145 
3.00 


U 
0.435 
0.725 
7.14 



The measures of the currents were made by an electro- 
dynamometer such as described in Art. 21, page 78. Its 
constant was determined by a copper voltameter. The 

, . . J • XI. -x Daniell 

measurements of current are expressed m the unit — ^ ^^ , 

in which the Daniell after Kohlrausch is defined as that 
electromotive force which in one Siemens unit produces a 



462 DYNAMO-BLBOTBIC MACHINES. 

current which will deposit 1.38 grammes of copper in an 
hour. The machine was tested under three different sets of 
convolutions, and gave the data on the preceding page. 

The external resistance consisted of a system of iron 
ribbons, which were spread out openly in the air, so as to 
avoid heating as much as possible. The resistance of these 
ribbons were tested each time. 

The position of the brushes at the commutator could be 
changed as desired. This position was so chosen in every 
experiment that the current was at the maximum. 

Figs. 308 and 309 present a graphic representation of the 

V 

results of these experiments. J" is a function of :^ • In the 

curve III, the values of ™. are increased ten times. It is 

shown from these experiments that in the main the strength 

of current is only a function of „. or p- [In this diagram 

and the following, J=r C or current strength or intensity, 
and W=: R OT resistance. And these values will be ex- 
pressed in the text as C and iJ, in order to make them con- 
form to Ohm's law as expressed in English, E = CR. The 
expression in German is -B = JW. — K.] If v and R were 
variable, as both influence independently the current 
strength, they could not be represented by a single curve. 
The representation by a single curve suffices for the record 
of the observations, because the deviations from the curve 
were no more than the errors of experiment. 

However, this is not strictly correct. If C were but a 

function of -p , a certain strength of current would stand 

for a definite position of the collector, and for definite values 
for V and R, so that the current would not change equally 
with the nimiber of rotations and resistance. Neither is 
this strictly the case ; for if v and R are both equally in- 
creased, the collector brushes must be turned a little in the 



THEORY OF DTNAMO-BLEOTRIC MACHINES. 463 



■direction of rotation of the armature, in order to obtain the 
fiame strength of current as before. This phenomenon, 



9 

i 



r 

I 

\ 






p ^ o *. 


\ 

\ 


1 \ '» X 


C Xv 


1 U5 


"^i- 3^^ 


'S '& . 


'^ i v^ 


^^ * ^t 


+ 4 t^\ 




'S "£ 


^ v> 


V jS 


1 V!V 


3 V 


\- J 


l -^ 


4 i 


A^ 3^ 


t ^ 


A V 




1 1 f 1 A 



r 

s 



-which would seem to indicate a tardiness in magnetism in 
the armature during rotation is practically of little influ- 
■ence ; therefore we leave it unnoticed in the following con" 



464 DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINBS. 

fiiderationSy though in experimenting it must be always 
taken into account when the collector is put in position. 
[In the more modem machines, wherein larger or more 
massive iron cores are used in the armatures, as in the Wes- 
ton Shunt- Wound Incandescent Light Machines, the neces- 
sity for changing the position of the brushes relative to the 
collector is not met, owing to conditions considered in the 
description of that machine.— K.] 

OS. Deduetions fr*om the ]M[a.iii Equa.- 
tion. By the ezperimenta just mentioned, it is decided 
that the strength of current of a dynamo-electric machine 
is only dependent upon the proportion of the velocity to the 
resistance, and thereby the main equation 



c = ^{„J) 



is proven correct. This proportion of dependence gives us 
the current curve, and as soon as we have determined this 
experimentally, we can answer all questions which are put 
in regard to the machine. These questions may refer to 
strength of current, electromotive force, eflfective magnet- 
ism, velocity, and resistance. Between these five values 
there are three equations : 

Ohm's law, E = CR. 

The current curve, ^ ^ ^V'R/ 

1 E 
The eflfective magnetism. Jf = - x — • 

n V 

If, therefore, two of the five values be given, the others 
may be calculated therefrom, and the theory of dynamo 
machines be completely solved. It is, however, in practice 
a source of great delay and often impracticable to obtain 
the current curve, owing tg the series of experiments whieh 



THEORY OF D YI^AMO-ELQCTBIC MACBIKES. 465 

must be znade unider the greatest possible variations of ve- 
locities. But it is only necessary to e]q>eriinent within the 
limits which occur in practice. The strengths of current 
which are used in practice have moderate value^ and are 
neither very weak nor strong enough to tax the machine to 
its maximum capacity. 

It is now very important that the current curve should 
deviate but a little from a straight line, such as is shown in 
the diagram^ Fig. 310, taken from a Siemens machine. This 

Fie. 810. 




-^ ■ ■ 6 ■" 

Fr6lick*t Currtnt Curve, 



property of the current curve furnishes the means for ma- 
terially simplifying the theory. This simplified theory is 
then only valid within the limits for medium strengths of 
currents. 

Therefore in this case we replace the current curve by a 
straight line ; then within those limits the strength of cur- 
rent is a linear f imction of 



«^; also C = J(»J-o), 



in which a and h are constants which have definite mean^ 
ing ; a is the number of dead rotations. As long as the 

nimiber of rotations v is so small that -^ is not greater than 

a, the machine does not work. This is because imder the 



466 



DTNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHIKE8. 



small number of rotations the strength of current produced 

is not enough to impart to the field electro-magnets a 

strength of magnetism exceeding the residual magnetism. 

In Fig. 310, O S is the current curve, and A B the straight 

line which represents the limits before mentioned; then 

OA = o. For 6 retain 

nv 



b = 



R 



— a 



t 



and calculate as follows : the value of -p is determined for 

any value, C, of the current strength ; then a is known and 
b can be calculated, and thereby the position of the straight 
line A B is determined, and with it the entire character of 
the machine. 

We will at first investigate the change of the current 
strength when the nimiber of rotations remain the same 
and the resistance in the current circuit is changed. This 
dependence is illustrated by Fig. 811. The curve is a branch 



Fxe. 811. 



Fte.81S. 




Dtptndtnct of Currtnt Sirtngth 
up&n RgMttiauc*, 



>N 

Dtptndtnce of Ttntion or Electromotive 
Force upon Resistamee, 



of a hyperbola, and shows that with small variations of the 
resistance great changes in the strength of current are pro- 
duced. The ^urve cuts the axis on which the resistances 
are placed at a point at which 

nv' 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 467 

thereby showing that for every velocity of rotation there is 
an external resistance under which the machine does not 
work. 

Fie. 818. 




Tkg Working Magnetism. 

The electromotive force E is, under the same conditions^ 
a linear function of B ; then there are the equations, 

E=CR, 

^ = ^ (nt; — aB). 

This line is given in Fig. 312. 

The dependence of the effective magnetism, M, upon the 
strength of current is much more complicated. 

00« The dependence of the effective magnetism upon 
the strength of current is illustrated by the curves V, VI, 
VII, Fig. 313, respectively, for the convolutions I, II, III ; 



4G8 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

the effective magnetism being repi^esented hj ordinatesy 
and the streQgth of current by abscissae* This dependence 
is characterized by the effective magnetism being propor- 
tional to the strength of current at the beginning, but these 
continually deviate from this proportion, and asymptotically 
pass over to a maximum. For still stronger currents, the 
magnetism may even sink below this maximum, for when 
the cores are magnetized to the maximum, the effect of the 
current upon the magnetism of the armature acts, or tends 
to move the lines of force and weaken the magnetism, so 
that the entire effective magnetism must decrease. How- 
ever, this takes place only for strengths of current which 
much exceed those in practical use. If we, therefore, confine 
ourselves to the circumstances of daily practice, we can 
assume that the effective magnetism finally attains a con- 
stant maximum. We then obtain a curve of the form 
shown in Fig. 314. This agrees with our main equation. 
From it arises 

M = - C7 — , and by elimination of ^ 



a + b'C 



Fie. 814. 




Dtptndence c/ Magnetism upon Strength of Current . 

Again, when M and C are considered variable, the equa- 

^ tion is that of the branch of a hyperbola, as is shown in 

Fig. 314. The equation also gives us another meaning of a 



THEORY OP DTNAMO-BLEOTRIC MAOHINES. 469 

and b. If C is very small, so that a is much larger than 
b Cy then we almost hare 

C 

hut a is the proportion of the current to the effective mag- 
netism for very weak currents. If, inversely, O is very 
large, so that a is much smaller than b C, then 

g is the limit value of the effective magnetism for very 

strong currents, i. e. , for the maximum of magnetism. These 
assimiptions only serve for examples, because our theory is 
not valid for either very weak or very strong currents. 

The curves foimd for the effective magnetism, as given 
above, now show that the maximum which is so deleterious 
lo the working of the machine takes place comparatively 
early in the above-named constructions, and it remains to 
show the reason for their early occurrence. 

It is to be supposed that the cause lies in the magrnetizing 
action of the current from the armature wires. For this 
action is in opposition to the magnetizing power of the inag- 
net limbs, and consequently the mag^netic axis of the arma- 
ture is turned and its current-producing power is weakened, 
and the effective magfnetism on the whole is diminished. 
The maximum of effective magnetism must take place, 
therefore, sooner than it would without this influence. 

[The maximum of effective mfignf^twm is attained earlier 
4Uid is less in Bbeemf^ ^wifh small masses of iron in the field 
magnets and armatures than with large. The Siemens 
and Gramme machines with which these experiments were 
l^ried are defective in this particular of massiveness. — K.] 

In order to separate the opposing influences to effective 
magrnetism, namely the magnetizing forces of the coils of 
Ihe field magnet limbs and that at tiie armature coils, the 



470 DYKAMO-BLECTBIC MACHIKE8, 

current from a second dynamo was sent through the field 
magnet coils, and the armature circuit was closed through 
a high resistance. The armature was then rotated and the 
difference of potential at its poles was measured by means 
of a torsion galvanometer (page 84). The collector brushes 
were set on the maximum of the difference of potential, 
and this was found to be almost at the theoretical points, 
namely, on the line which bisects the line of magnetism, 
i. e.y on the line of neutrality. The effective magnetism waa 
obtained by dividing the electromotive force, or potential 
difference at the poles by the number of convolutions on the 
armature. 

These experiments, carried out for all convolutions of the 
field magnets, gave results which are expressed with suf- , 
ficient accuracy by the formula of interpolation, 

C 



M = 



a -j- b C 



We compile these f ormulsB in the following table, desig- 
nating the effective magnetism with current in the arma- 
ture by M, and that without current in the armature by 2f' . 

Under winding I an interpolation formula is first given 
for My which correctly represents the effective magnetism 
of the entire run, except for the start which has no prac- 
tical value. 

Winding I. 

^_ _C ^ 

^ ■" 26600 + 367C + 14.3C*' 
for 20 < C < 60 : 
^_ __J0 

"~ 8070 + 1440C* 
Jlf„„ = 0,000694; 

^ "■ 14400 = 1040(7 
Jf'^ = 0,000962. 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES, 471 

Winding II. 

^_ C_ , 

. ~ 5180 + 1310(7 

Jf„»^ == 0,000763; 

-kjft C| 

^ "" 9100 + 1010(7' 
Jf' ^ = 0,000990. 

Winding III. 

" 3200 -h 1380C 
M^ = 0,000726 ; 

-^ ^ 6iOCr+"930C' 
Jf«. = 0,001080. 

From these it is evident how strongly the action of the* 
current in the armature depresses the maximum. This is 
for all the windings about one-quarter of the values. The 
coefficients 6, which determine the mazimiun in the various 
windings, are but little varied ; the coefficients a, the- 
reciprocal values of which form an expression for the 
** power of the winding," however, show strong variations. 

oy. Oomp3.i*isoii of Dynamo-Electric 
^with TMag-neto-Electrtc ]M[a.cIiiiieH. Tho 

main advantage of dynamos above magnetos is in the 
strength of magnetism. It can be assumed that four time& 
the weight of iron must be employed in magneto machines 
than in dynamo machines to produce the same strength of 
magnetic field. Consequently the latter are smaller, 
cheaper, and more simple in construction. This advantage 
is opposed by disadvantages. The magnetism must be kept 
up by expenditure of current which continually absorbs 
mechanical energy while at work, which is not the case 
with magnetic msrchines. In order to produce a definite 



472 



DYNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



current in a given external resistance, the dynamo consumes 
.more power than the magneto. 

Another difference is formulated as follows : 

With the magneto machine the strength of current is 

C = ~nM. 
With the dynamo machines it is 

If the current curves be drawn for both machines, C 

being the ordinate and -p the abscissa, the magneto machine 

will give a straight line from zero, while the dynamo will 
also give a straight line, but which starts from a point on 
the abscissa axis and cuts the ma^eto line at another 
point. Therefrom it can be concluded that there is a veloc- 
ity for each machine at which they give equal currents. 
But the current of the dynamo grows more rapidly. In 



Fio. 815. 



Fl«.tlC 




DtfnuUuce of Current Strength 
.upon Number of ReiieUion* and Reiistauce. 




D^emeUnce ^ Current SfrwmgiA 
upon ReeUtance. 



Fig. 315 the whole line ooraasponds to that of the dynamo 
and the dotted line to that of the magneto machine. 

If C and R are only considered as variable, eqpdfaiteral 
hyperbolas are obtained in both cases, which again cut each 



THEORY Ot DTKAMO-ELEGTRIC MACHINES. 473 

•other at that point, at which both machines give the same 
strength of current. And again, the curve of the dynamo 
cuts the abscissa axis at a point which is determined by the 
dead rotations ; while the other curve does not do that, but 
asymptotically approaches the abscissa axis. 

From this it will be seen that the total difference be- 
tween the two machines lies in the dead rotations of the 

Fitt. 817. 




TA4 Se^araUly Excited Dymimo. 



dynamo. If this condition could be removed, the curves 
would approach each other continually, and as their num- 
ber increases the curves recede continually. The effect of 
the dead rotations is that the dynamo is much more sensi- 
tive to variations in resistance and velocity than is the 
magneto. This property is advantageous when it is desira- 
ble to increase the current as much as possible ; and is dis- 



4?4 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES, 



advantageous when the velocity is small and resistance 
great. 

In making practical use of electricity, this condition can 
never be entirely avoided, either one or the other extreme 
happens, and it is a constant endeavor to suppress them. 

The advantages of both magneto and dynamo machines 
are combined when the field magnets are excited from 



Fig. 81& 




h — ^ 


'1™*=: 


-\ 


^a 


T^ 




:• . ; n ■,, 


^B 1 


■N--'' 




«// 




r 


r 


/ 




€ 




^^ 


.Ji J 



TAe Shunt Dynamo. 

another source ; for instance, another dynamo machine itt 
an independent circuit, as is done in the cases of the large 
alternating - current machines of Siemens, Qordon, and 
others. (See Fig. 317.) This arrangement has the disad- 
vantage of the necessary use of two machines for gener- ' 
ating one current. A similar effect is arrived at by an 
arrangement which Wheatstone first discovered, and which 



THBORY OP DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 475 

consists in including the coils of the field magnet in a 
hranch or derived circuit, as shown at 6 d c in Fig. 318, 
instead of in the main circuit. For exciting the field mag- 
nets, only a small percentage of the total current is usually 
derived from the main circuit a. The convolutions consist 
of a long wire of small diameter and much resistance, so 
that the fluctuations in the main circuit have almost no 
effect on the electro-magnet. But the number of dead rota- 
tions are much increased. This arrangement is adopted in 
the recent Brush [?— K.], Edison, and Gulcher machines. 
[This is especially noticeable in the latest Weston Ma- 
chines.— K.] 

We have now presented the most important points of 
FrolicKa theory, and will proceed to give the theory of 
Marcel Deprez. 

FrolicKa theory makes use, as a foundation, of the so- 
called current curve which constitutes the connection 
between the strength of current and the velocity of rotation 
of the arnxature of the machine. 

Deprez also starts from a similar curve, which has 
another meaning, and which he calls the " characteristic 



OS. iMarcel Deprez's Cliaracteristic 
•CiMTve. Break the connection between the armature 
and field electro-magnet circuits of a dynamo-electric ma- 
chine ; conduct .through the field-electro-magnet circuit a 
current of known strength from another machine ; rotate 
the armature at a definite speed or velocity, and then mea,s- 
nve the tension E of the induced current. If the current 
from the extra machine through the field-electro-magnets 
l>e varied, the magnetic field will have correspondingly 
varying intensities. A given tension JS7.at the binding- 
posts of the armatmre will correspond to each intensity C of 
the current passed through the coils of the field magnets. 



476 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Let it be supposed that the velocity of rotation of the arma^ 
ture remains the same during* the other variations. If now, 
in a diagram, C is taken as the abscisea and E as the ordi- 
nates, a curve will be obtained from these diflferent values, , 
the form of which depends upon the construction of the 
machine, and which Deprez calls the ** characteristic curve." 
The connection between the armature and field electro- 
magnets is now restored, and the armature rotated with the 
same velocity as before. The machine now acts as a series 



Fio. 819. 




A F 

D^prtz's Characteristic Curve. 



dynamo or dynamo-electric machine, and a certain strength 
of current C is produced, which now also excites the field 
magnetSt The curve constructed as above, and shown in 
Fig. 319, shows that the strength of current corresponds to 
the abscissa O F, and the tension to the ordinate F G, and 
this then is the tension which is set up with definite velocity 
of rotation and corresponding strength of current. 

This characteristic curve is the foundation of Depresfs 
theory, as we will proceed to show. Previously, however, 
in order to prevent misunderstanding, we will present a 
criticism. Frolich has shown, in his previously described 
experiments, that we must take into consideration whether 
the armature is traversed by a current, because the induc- 
tive action of a magnetic armature upon the field electro- 



THEORY OF PTN AMO-KLBCTR IC MACHINES. 477 

magnets changes the magnetic field of the machine. 
Frolich has endeavored to show by his extensive measure- 
ments that the intensity of the magnetic field of the 
machine is decreased %Q% by this inductive action. Deprez 
debates this large influence ; and herein lies the difference 
between their two theories. 

OO. Tlie Theory of tlie I>yiiaiiiLO l^la- 
cliiiie. If the electromotive force E and the strength of 
current Care known, the resistance can easily be calculated 

by the application of Ohm' a law, E =: C x if, or JB = ^, 
= ^-J = tan G F (Fig. 319). The total resistance is 

thus expressed by the tangent of an angle which can easily 
be graphically constructed. In this way it is possible to^ 



FiCk ttU. 




TAg CAaracitruiic Cwrvt/^r Dijftrtnt Vtlocitits, 

readily solve by a graphic method all problems relative to 
the dynamo-electric machine. If, for example, we start 
with a definite resistance and diminish it continually, the 
line O G, by the inclination of which the resistance is 
measured, will incline more and more in the direction C. 
If the values G F and tangent G O F are compared with 



478 DTNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINES. 

each other, it will be seen that the tension increases rapidly 
at first, then grows more slowly, and then finally remains 
constant. 

If, on the other hand, in the graphic illustration (Fig. 319), 
we increase the resistance, the lii^e O G has a tendency to 
turn towards the axis F, and it will in its movement cut 
the curve nearer and nearer to its beginning O, and at the 
position D will be at a tangent to it. At this moment the 
machine will be without current. This means that there is 
a certain resistance for the machine at which the strength 
of current is at zero. This is connected with the dead 
rotations. 

Hereinbefore the velocity of rotation has been assumed 
to be constant, and the characteristic curve is only valid 
for this constant velocity v. If it is desirable to designate 
it from another velocity Vi, it is only necessary to multiply 

the ordinates JS?by -^- This calculation is based upon the 

assumption that within the velocities used in practice the 
tensions are proportional to the various velocities. This 
,assumption, as Fig. 319 shows, is only allowable within 
small limits. If, for example, the tension E and strength 
of current C are sought for a definite resistance JB, and a 
velocity of rotation Vj, while the characteristic curve for the 
velocity v only is known, the following is the plan of cal- 
culation. If the velocities — = -BT, then E=iKe, and then 
follows C = -rT • C corresponding with the resistance R 

is thus obtained for the velocity v^ by determining the 

R 

strength of current for the resistance -^ in the curve for the 

velocity v, A tension, e, corresponds to this current C for 
the velocity v, and this e is to be multiplied by JBT in order 
to get the electromotive force for Vj. 



THEORY OF D YNAMO-BLBGTBIC MACHINES. 479 




DHrrminaHom of Tensiam Difftrtuut, 



A very important problem i8 the determination of dif- 
ferences of tension between any two parts of the current 
circuit which are separated 
from each other by a defi- Fw.aM. 

nite resistance. Let the to- 
tal resistance of the circuit 
be 22 and the resistance of 
that part of the circuit the 
tension differences of which 
are to be determined be r. 
Lay the line X against 
the angle D X, the tan- 
gent of which is if, and 
the angle O X, the tangent of which is r. Then 
DA = 0AxtanD0A=(7xjB 
EA = OAxtanCOA=Cxr 
DE = DA-EA = C7 (i?-r) 

According to Ohm's law (7 (B — r) is the difference of 
tension between the two points of the current circuit 
which are separated by the resistance R — r, and is the e 
sought for. 

If C O X is the internal resistance of the machine and 
the total resistance be varied, D E represents the difference 
of tension at the binding posts of the machine. At start- 
ing this difference is at zero, as O D and C coincide, and 
with increased speeds it increases to maximum and then 
decreases, as is shown by the curved line. 



lOO. l^lstcliines vrith Separated Cir- 
ouits. We will now give attention to another class of 
machines in which the coils of the electro-field-magnets are 
traversed by two currents. Each electro-magnet has two 
spirals : — one of which is traversed by a constant current 
which is generated by an extra machine ; and the other is 
traversed by the entire current generated by its own arma- 



480 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



Fio. 8SS. 



ture. The effects of these two currents are added to each 
other ; but the items of resistance of the two circuits must 
be separately considered, as that of the circuit of the extra 
machine and of the coils of the main machine are together, 
but independent of the work done in the main circuit. But 
the resistance of the second spiral, through which the work- 
ing current flows, must be considered in elucidating our 
theory. Let O' F C, Fig. 322, be the characteristic curve 
of the machine; when the first, or separated, spiral is 
traversed by a constant current from the extra machine, the 
intensity of that current is represented by the O' O and 
its tension by O F, as long as no current is generated in 

the circuit of the second 
spiral. 

Now, let the current 
from the armature of the 
main machine be started 
and traverse the second 
spiral, its magnetic effect 
will be added to that of 
the first; so the starting 
point of a new character- 
istic curve is at the point F. 
From this diag^m we can draw the following con- 
clusions : — Let E O' X represent the internal resistance of 
the machine, without considering the spiral belonging to 
the extra machine ; then the maximum of the potential 
difference which can be attained by the machine alone is 
designated by D E, which corresponds to the resistance 
D O' X. But if we have a magnetic field already furnished— 
as is the case when the extra machine is run — then, be- 
cause the internal resistance, B O X = E O' X, remains 
unaltered, we have a useful potential difference as much in 
excess of the former as the line C B exceeds the line D E ; 
and even this does not represent the attainable maximum. 




Characteristic Curve far Machines having 
St^arated Circuits, 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 481 

Deprez has experimentally determined the characteristic • 
curves of a large number of Ghramme machines. Before 
attaining speed the line is but slightly curved ; and up to 
the point near saturation, it can be practically regarded as 
straight. If machines are used which have large dimen- 
sions in proportion to the sizes of their armatures, the 
points of saturation are less early reached, and the curves 
remain nearer straight for increased effects. For many 
machines under the conditions of practice, the characteristic 
curve can be practically represented by a straight line. But 
this is only approximately correct. FrolicVs investiga- 
tions with certain machines showed that the curve may be 
represented by a straight line at starting and at the end ; 
but at the centre, which part is in practical use, the curve 
has the greatest bend. Therefore the deductions of Deprez 
from his theory are not unconditionally applicable to all 
machines. But the method by which these results were ob- 
tained is so simple and elegant, it seems justifiable in us to 
show several examples of its application. 

1 1 • Dynamo IMCaehines of* Oonstant 
Electromotive Force. When the problem is 
given to so construct a dynamo-electric machine that under 
a given velocity a constant tension may be preserved at its 
binding-posts, no matter what may be the changes made in 
the resistance of its external circuit, the following conditions 
are to be observed. When for a given velocity the charac- 
teristic curve of a machine has-been constructed, a straight 
line with a definite inclination towards the O X will be ob- 
tained according to the foregoing description. If the velocity 
be changed, all the ordinates must be multiplied by a constant 
in order to obtain the new curve. This means the same as 
turning the characteristic straight line a certain number of 
degrees around the point where it cuts the X axis. 

Let O' G be the characteristic curve of a machine. If a 
21 



482 



DYNAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINES. 



magnetic field is produced in it by a constant exterior cur- 
rent, the characteristic line is represented by the part F O 
of the line. If D O X be the interior resistance of the ma- 
chine, the lines F G and O D will generally meet at one 
point ; so that that portion of the ordinates between these 
two lines representing the tension at the binding-posts is 
variable. There will be a different tension for each exter- 
nal resistance ; but we possess the means of making the 

Fia. an. 




Machine with Constant Ttntion, 



tension unvarying. We can make the line O' Q turn about 
the point 0' by changing the velocity. For a given velocity 
the straight line will take the position O' C, which is paral- 
lel to O D. Then the line C B, which represents the tension 
at the binding-posts, will remain constant in length for any 
resistance C O X of the exterior circuit, and we will have a 
machine which with the given velocity gives a current hav- 
ing constant tension, no matter how much the exterior 
resistance is varied. 

Deprez has also shown how it is possible in a similar 
manner to construct machines of constant strength or inten- 
sity of current. But we must refer in this matter to the 
original paper by him read before the " Congr^s Interna- 
tional des Electriciens," at Paris, in 1881, and printed in 
'' Comptes Rendus," p. 103. 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 483 

10)3. Combination IMacliiiies. As we 

have seen from the formulse set forth in Section 96, the 
electric current produced by a machine is dependent upon 
the resistance of the external circuit. The strength or in- 
tensity of current is 

and the tension is 

E := Tinv — OjB). 

When we vary the resistance and retain the speed of rota- 
tion, we obtain a current of different tension and different 
intensity. For practical use, however, it is necessary to 
have, in nearly all cases, a current of approximately con- 
stant qualities. In incandescense lighting, for example, it 
is necessary to preserve constant tension at the binding- 
posts of the dynamo, under all possible changes of the 
external resistance. For other purposes— galvanoplastic 
operations, for example — it is desirable to preserve the in- 
tensity of the current. Deprez^s discovery that we could 
build dynamo electric machines so that they would have 
either constant tension or constant intensity, as might be 
designed, without further regulating apparavtus, is of the 
greatest practical interest. In Section 99 it has been shown 
that when the electro-magnets of a dynamo-electric ma- 
chine are provided with two sets of coils, one of which is 
traversed by an independent constant current, and the 
other by the current of the machine itself, there is always 
a certain definite velocity of rotation of the armature at 
which the machine gives a current of either constant ten- 
sion or constant intensity, no matter what the resistance of 
the exterior circuit may be. Prof. Perry has devised other 
methods of obtaining the same result. In the following 
pages we present the most important of these methods. 



484 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



These are based upon a combination of arrangements and 
of machines,.in order to obtain currents of desired prop- 
erties. 

Constant Tension according to Deprez. This is by the 
separated circuits elaborated in Section 101. The method 
can be applied to any machine provided with two sets of 



Fio. 894. 




CoMstani Tension by Deprez. 



convolutions on the field magnets, through one set of which 
a special current from an independent source is ^ent, as at 
h c (Fig. 324). In that way a constant magnetic field is 
obtained, which is independent of the current which is 
caused to traverse the main circuit a of the machine. 
When the armature is rotated with a defined velocity, the 
electromotive force which produces the current will depend 
partly upon the independently-excited magnetic field, and 



THEOB7 OF D YlirAMO-ELBCTBIC MACHINBS. 485 

partly upon the additional magnetism conferred by the cur- 
rent of the machine itself. 

If the velocity he so chosen that the quotient obtained 
by dividing that part of the electromotive force derived 
from the self -excitement by the intensity, is equal with the 
resistance of the internal circuit of the machine, then the 
tension in the <eztemal circuit is constant, whatever may be 
the external resistance. This is in words the statement of 
the graphical construction given in Section 101. 

The constant tension can be given any definite value by 
having the separate currents of proportionate magnitude. 



Fio. 395. 



.r:ii^ 




Constant Inientity according to Deprn, 



Constant intensity of current according to Deprez. The 
arrangement for obtaining a constant strength of current, 
shown by Fig. 325, differs from the preceding one in the 
particular of putting the armature in the branch circuit 6 c. 



486 



DTNAMO-BLECTRIC MACHINES. 



instead of in the main circuit a alone. The fact is quite 
interesting that the velocity of a machine for producing 
constant strength of current is the same as that for gener- 
ating constant tensions. One or the other result can there- 
fore be obtained by a simple switch which will throw the 



Fn. 896. 



HiilWIHHIIHiM 




CtmttaHi Tension according to Perry, 

branch circuit in or out to effect the change. [The circuit 
Ve is part of the circuit of an independent source of elec- 
tricity, as in the preceding case. 

We have seen in Section 68 how Weston secures practi- 
cally constant tension. This is mainly by duly proportion- 
ing all the parts of the machine one to cmother ; making 
the core of the armature as massive as is practically possi- 
ble, and running it very closely to the poles of the field 
magnets ; and by making the coils of the field magnets of 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-ELBCTRIC MACHINES. 487 

comparatively very high resistance, and putting them in a 
circuit derived at the binding-posts.— K.] 

Constant Tension according to Perry. By this method a 
magnetic field is first produced independent of the armature 
of the machine, by intercalating a magneto-electric ma- 

Fio. 8S7. 




C0nstant InUnsity according to Ptrry. 



chine m into the main circuit a. The magneto is driven at 
a determined uniform velocity, and produces in the main 
machine a magnetic field of definite strength, in the same 
way as in the separated coils of Deprez's method. Perry 
then determines by experiment the velocities of the mag- 
neto and dynamo machines, respectively, at which the ten- 
sion becomes independent of the external circuit. 

A disadvantage belonging to this method is this : that by 
the connection of two machines in series the resistance is- 



488 



DTNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 



much increased, and therefore the arrangement is not eco- 
nomical. 

Hjorth set forth this combination of a magneto-electric 
and dynamo-electric machine in 1854. 

In order to obtain a constant current, Perry makes use of 
the arrangement shown by Fig. 327. The electro-magnets 
and the magneto-electric machine m are in a branch circuit 
n. The proper velocities are determined by experiment. 



Fig. 896. 




^ ^ I 

Compound IVinding o/Bm$k, 



Brush made use of the so-called ** compound-winding*' 
in his first machines. It consists in providing the electro- 
field-magnets with a second set of coils of high resistance, 
besides the usual ones of comparatively low resistance in 
series with the armature, which second set of coils was 
connected with the brushes so that it formed a shunt- 



THEORY OF D YN AMO-BLBCTR IC MACHINES. 489 

circuit, derived from the main circuit. The intensity of the 
magnetic field is thereby less influenced by changes in the 
external circuit. 

Recently Siemens & Halske have undertaken the problem 
lOf constructing dynamo machines having constant tension 
at the binding-posts. They endeavor to obtain this desired 
condition by means of the so-called *'compoimd winding," 
which was first mentioned by Synsteden in the year 1871. 
This consisted either in providing two of the four field mag- 
net limbs with high resistance coils, and the remaining two 
with low resistance coils, or in providing each limb two sets 
•of like coils which were placed thereon side by side or 
.superimposed. The convolutions of fine wire of high resist- 
ance can be either connected in derivation from the arma- 
ture or from the entire main circuit of the machine. The 
coarse-wire circuit is traversed by either the whole or a part 
of the main current. With the aid of one or the other com- 
pound winding, ifr fans become possible to produce machines 
which give a nearly constant tension at the binding-posts, 
•even if the number of incandescent lamps be increased from 
1 to ^. One machine on test gave with one lamp a tension 
of 63 volts ; with 8 lamps, 67 volts ; and with gradual de- 
crease with additions of lamps, until at 20 lamps the tension 
was 64 volts. 

We had occasion to see a similar machine at the works 
-of Spiecher & Co., of Cologne, who build machines of this 
<;onstruction. It was arranged for 20 Edison A lamps. All 
20 lamps could be turned on or oflF, at will, either singly or 
•several at a time, without perceptible increase nor decrease 
in the light of those left burning. 

[The United States Electric Lighting Co. have exhibited 
to the editor a Weston niachine supplying 200 Maxim in- 
•candescence lamps, and 199 of them were several times 
turned oflf at one instant with but a scarcely perceptible in- 
•crease in the light of the remaining one. This machine was 



490 



DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINBS. 



simply shimt-woundy not compound womid, and of the type 
described on p. 339.— K.] 

Prof. Sylvanus P. Thompson suggests the arrangement 
sketched in Fig. 329. It differs from the preceding, as the 
second set of convolutions of the electro-magnets do not 
branch from the brushes at the collector ; but, instead, the 
entire current first traverses the main coils of the electro* 

Fl«. 889. 



lIllilillRlllliiliMII 




CoMttant Tension according to Thompson, 



magnet, and then a portion only branches off into the shimt* 
circuit. This arrangement is calculated for constant ten- 
sion. 

[Mr. Thomas A. Edison, early in his labors in this line, 
conceived the idea of making dynamo machines of constant 
electromotive force for incandescence lighting, and filed in 
the U. S. Patent Office a caveat in which he clearly described 



CLASSIFICATION OF MACHINES. 491 

the compound winding in its various modifications, in the 
summer of 1879. Some of his patents thereon were issued 
on Sept. 19th, 1882, and are numbered 264,664, 264,668, 
264,662, and 264,671.— K] 

103. OlAssifloAtion of* I>yiiaiiio-E31ec- 
tiiric IMacliiiies. Dynamo-electric machines can be 
classified under a number of heads, according to various 
I)oints of view. The following may be considered : 

1. The nature of the current produced ; 

2. The nature and arrangement of the magnetic field ; 

3. The form of the armature. 

1. The classification of the machines according to the 
nature of the current produced. Most machines generate 
alternating currents which, during a part of the time, fiow 
in one direction, and during the following time fiow in the 
opposite direction. Only the unipolar machines give cur- 
rents of continually the same direction. With some ma- 
chines the alternating currents are conveyed as such into 
the external circuits. With others the alternating currents 
are turned in one direction either by commutators or by 
collectors when they are passed into the circuits external to 
their armatures. 

Under this head we can designate four classes of ma- 
chines, namely : 

a. Machines for alternating currents. The currents are 
conveyed into the external circuits just as they are pro- 
duced by the spools of the armature. As many as 30000 
current impulses alternating in direction are obtained per 
minute. 

6. Machines for currents of one direction. A commu- 
tator is always used to determine the direction of the cur- 
rent from that which it would otherwise take at the instant 
of change in the coils of the armature. The current so 
produced in the external circuit is not a constant one, but 



492 



DYNAMO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



periodically changes its strength from nothing to the maxi- 
mum at every commutation. 

c. Machines with contintums currents. The armature 
carries numerous bobbins, so many divisions, which are 
connected to a collector which produces a like number of 
partial commutations. There is created a periodically in- 
creasing and decreasing current, the intensity of which be- 
comes more nearly constant with an increase in the number 
of bobbins on the armature. 



Fio. aw 



FiQ. 8S1. 



FTJ- 




1 






r 






^\ 


N 




r 




f' 




Magneto- EUctric Machine, 



M^rN CfRCUlT 
Dymamo-Electrie Machine. 



d. Machines with constant current. The current pro- 
duced in the armature has always the same intensity ; and 
therefore the machine produces, without the aid of mechan- 
ical attachments, currents of constant direction and con- 
stant intensity. 

2. The classification according to the nature and arrange-- 



CLASSIFICATION OF MACHINES. 



493^ 



ment of the magnetic field. There are magneto-electric ma- 
chines in which the magnetic field is produced by perma- 
nent magnets^ as at m, Fig. 330 ; and djnamo-electric ma- 
chines in which the field is produced by electro-magnets 
energized by currents from their own armatures. There 
are two classes of the latter. One, the machine with simple 
magnetic field, i. e., having one N and one S pole, as in 
Fig. 331 ; and the other, the machine having a compound 
magnetic field produced by four or more magnetic poles. 

[Another may be added here ; which may be called the- 
electro-magneto-electric machine. This is one which has:- 
the electro-field-magnets excited solely by a separate ma- 
chine or other source of electricity. — ^K.} 




Diagram of the Ring- A rmature. 



3. The classification of the dynamo-electric machine ac- 
cording to the form of the armature is very important. In 
case of machines for continuous current four types are dis- 
tinguished : 

The Ring-Atmature, The armature consists of an 



a. 



iron ring which has its entire surface covered with the wire 
of the bobbins. The principle and construction of this ring 



494 



DTNAMO-BLBCTBIG MACHINES. 



Fio. 838. 



m 
Jim 




and its connection with a collector we have considered at 
len^h in the introduction (page 37 to 38), and we now 
give a diagrammatic illustration of it in Fig. 332. In con- 
struction the following three principal 
points are to be considered : 

The winding must be so arranged 

□ p= that it gives currents which are as con- 
E= stant and of the same quality as possible. 
^^ The iron ring-core must not permit the 

formation of Fimcaulfs currents. The 
wire coils must be so arranged that, if 
possible, their entire length is subject to 
induction. 

This last point has caused the variety 
of forms which have been devised and 
made. 

The ideal form of the ring is given in 
the diagram, Fig. 333. The iron ring which is here taken 
for illustration has a square cross-section and is enclosed 
on all sides by magnetic surfaces, one half of which is of 



J 




Tkt Idtal Ring- A rmaturt. 



Fia.884. 





•^ 



fmmi 



Gramme Ring. 



north and the other half of south polarity. DiflBculties inci- 
dent to construction have prevented the practical realiza- 
tion of this principle. The machines which have been 
actually made are to be regarded as more or less complete 



THEORY OF DYNAMO-BLBCTRIC MACHINES. 495 

deformities of the ideal ring. K this ideal ring be pressed 
to flatten it in the direction perpendicular to its axis, and 



Fie. 885. 




Tirr 

yurgensen Ring. 



Pio. 886. 




Siemtnt Ring. 



Fie. 887. 



JO 



r 



the lateral and interior magnetic surfaces be withdrawn, 
the ordinary Gramme machine (Fig. 334) is obtained. If 
an electro-magnet be placed in the interior of the ring, the 
Jiirgensen machine is obtained (Fig. 335). At 
the International Electrical Exhibition in 
Paris a machine was exhibited by Siemens & 
Halske in which the exterior magnetic sur- 
faces were omitted and only the interior sur- 
faces retained. (See Fig. 336.) If the ideal 
ring be compressed in the direction of the 
axis, and magnets are set opposite to the flat 
surfaces, the so-called flat-ring machine of 
Schuckert (Fig. 337) is obtained. Up to the 
present time only the first and last named of 
these machines, in their modifications, have 
met with practical success. 

6. The Drum Armature. In this, instead of winding the 
circuit wires around a ring, they are wound lengthwise on 
a drum, or cylinder. They encircle the drum or cylinder 
parallel to the axis and cross the ends in proper arrange- 




S 



Schucktrt Ring. 



496 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIO MACHINES. 



ment. After the same manner as in the ring armatures the 
wires form a closed circuit. The core of the drum is made 
up of a cylinder of wood or papier mach6, and upon this is 
placed a thickness of iron wire, or some iron rings which 
are so arranged that FoucaulVs induction currents are 
avoided as much as possible. The various drums which 
have heretofore been constructed differ from one another in 
the construction of the core, and also in the connections of 
the wires at the collector end. The bobbins of the drum 
armature are continuously connected. The end of one bob- 



Fio. 888. 

1 1 n 1 1 mNi I II II II I 




TT 



I^IIIM I I 

Sietnens Dntftt. 



bin is connected with the beginning of its neighbor at the 
same collector segment. The driims first constructed by 
Alteneck did not have a symmetrical connection of the bob- 
bin ends with the collector segments. This form of con- 
nection was considered desirable on account of the simpler 
construction, and because the several bobbins were better 
insulated, thus avoiding short-circuiting sparks between 
contiguous segments and bobbins. Frolich afterward dis- 
covered a synmietrical winding according to which the 
Siemens armatures are wound at present. Anton Bregtiet 
has since shown that a great number of such symmetrical 
windings and connections exist. With a drum of eight 
divisions there are no less than eight. That winding should 
then be selected which, with the same inductive capacity, 
will have the shortest length of wire. Bregtiet calculates 



THBORY OF DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 497 

that for the ends of the dnims the following lengths of 
wire are necessary for the various systems : 

Fig. 889. 





/\ 


^ 


\7 


IS 




,/ 






X 


\ 


\ , 


*yC 




<. 






A" 


N| 


X 


\ 


m\. 


X 


Is 


\ 


s 




X, 


> 


/ " 




N 


^ 


1-^ 








Frolich Winding, 



He/ntr^AUeneck Winding. 



Frolich Winding, 30.8 

Hefner- Alteneck Winding, 30.5 

Br6guet " 26.0 

Br6guet (another) " 28.4 





Breguet Winding. 



Brigutt Winding, 



The drum armature is the most important form of arma- 
ture for machines of continuous currents, and it celebrates 
its triumph in the Edison machine, the winding of which 
is symmetrical also, but which has an uneven number of 
divisions. (See Fig. 343.) 

c. Pole Armature. The bobbins are wound on radial 
arms of iron, as shown in diagram by Fig. 344. When 



498 



DTNAMO-BLBGTRIC MACHINES. 



this wheel is rotated between two stationary magnetic 
poles, the radial iron arms change their polarity alternately 



Fig. 848. 




Edisim IVinding. 



and in consequence of this change of poles induction cur- 
rents are created in the encircling wires and are led oflf 
by a collector. 



Fig. 344. 



s — 




Lontin Artttature. 



d. Disk Armature, This form has not yet attained any 
practical importance. It exists in the so-called Arago ma- 



THBOBY OF DYNAMO- ELECTRIC MACHINES. 499 

chine, in two or more designed by Edison, and in one built 
by Hochhausen; all of which we have described. The 
armature conductors are arranged in the form of a disk ; 
they consist of wire, or copper bands, or copper bars with 
radial connecting pieces to a collector. 

In Alternating-Current Machines a division is not so 
easily and strictly possible. This is so because the magnetic 
field of these machines is a very complex ohe, and there- 
fore admits of a great variety of constructions. The most 
important forms can be gathered under the following clas- 
sification : 

a. The Spool Armature. This armature is characteristic 
of the alternating current machines. The armature consists 

Fie. 845 




TAe Siemens S/ooi A rmature. 



of wire bobbins fastened to the periphery of a disk in such 
a manner that their axes are parallel to the axis of rotation. 
In a number of machines the armature is stationary ( Jab- 
lochkoff's and Gordon's), and the electro-field-magnets are 
rotated ; in others the armature is moved, and the field- 
magnets remain stationary. 

6. The Ring-Armature, The winding is on a ring as in 



m> 



DTNAMO-ELBCTRIO MACHINES. 
FI0.84& 




JliM£ Armaimr* of Grammt AtUrfutting-Curroni Machine, 



the case of continuous current machines ; not in continuous 
connection^ as in them, but separated into many di visions. 

Fie. 847. 




P0U Armature cf LontitCs A'lUrnaitng'Cmrreni Machine. 

asABCDAB . . . . of which those having the same 
action, as A A, B B, etc., are connected with each other. 
c. The Pole-Armature. The machine with pole-arma- 



THEORY OF D YNAMO-ELECTBIC MACHINES. 501 

ijure consists of a wreath of induction bobbins, and a wheel 
of electro-magnets turning in this wreath. The axes of the 
lelectro-magnets are perpendicular to the axis of rotation of 
the machina ,(flee Fig. 347.) 




Tk4 Frrrunti'Tk^mnm DUk-Armaiurt. 

d. The Disk-Armature. The Ferranti-Thomson machine 
is the only example of a practically executed disk-armature 
of this class. The conductors are arranged on the rotating 
disk in zigzag shape. (See Fig. 348.) 

1 04« Collectors. Collectors belong to all dyna- 
mo-electric machines which produce continuous currents of 
one direction without commutation. As the collector is 
one direction without commutation. As the collector is 
one of the most important parts of the dynamo, it deserves 
detailed mention. Collectors are usually formed of a row 
liherewith, but insulated from it and from each other. Vari- 
ous modifications of this arrangement have been used, or 
proposed. Niaudet fastens the copper bars radially on a 
disk of insulating material. Weston and Schuckert make 
use of spirally-crooked copper bars. These deviations have 
proven useless, or even injurious, complications of the sim- 
ple cylindrical construction. 

In a well-constructed dynamo-electric machine the sev- 
eral parts are traversed by currents which come from the 
negative brush and traverse the two divisions of the wind- 



502 



DYNAMO-BLBCTBIC MACHINBS. 



ingy and meet in that piece of the collector which touches 
the positive brush. Every division or bobbin of the anna' 
ture adds its electromotive force to that of the preceding 
one, and therefore strengthens the current traversing it. 
If, now, the tension between the negative brush and the 
succeeding sections of the collector be measured, it will be 
found that it increases regularly in both directions, linearly, 
on the collector, and attains its maximum at the opposite 
side, where the positive brush is. This can be proven, ex- 
perimentally, by the aid of a galvanometer, one pole of 
which is attached to the negative brush, while a flexible 



Fig. 349 




Fio. 860. 




Tensions on a Collector of 
a Gramme Dynamo, 



Horigcntal Diagram of Tensions on a Collector of a 
Grammo Dynamo. 



piece of copper is attached to the other pole, and with 
it the several radial pieces of the collector are consecu- 
tively touched. If the several observed differences in ten- 
sion be graphically recorded on a drawing of the periphery 
of the collector, a picture as given in Fig. 349 will be 
obtained. In this way we can observe the regular growth 
of the tension from the lowest point of the circle, which 
point represents the negative brush, up to the maximum at 
the positive brush. If these graphic values are represented 
on a straight line, which can be done by imagining the 
periphery of the collector as unrolled upon a plane, the dia- 
gram represented in Fig. 350 is obtained. This shows that 
the tension does not increase regularly between the neigh- 
boring segments ; if it did, the curves would resolve them- 



THBOBY OF DTNAUO-BIiSCTRIC MACHINES. 503 



selves into two straight lines. In reality the increase of 
tension is smallest in the neighborhood of the two brushes^ 
and the rate of increase is greatest at a point about 90° 
from the brushes. It is there where the bobbins of the 
armature pass the part of the magnetic field which exerts 
the greatest inductive action. If the magnetic field was 
entirely homogeneous, the number of lines-of -force cut by 
the bobbins rotating in the field would be proportional to 
the sine of the angle which the plane of the bobbin pro- 
duces compared with the direction of the magnetic lines- 
of -force. The increase and decrease of the nimiber of these 
lines is then proportional to the cosine of this angle. The 
cosine is greatest when the angle is at zero. When, there- 
fore, the bobbin is parallel to the lines- 
of -force, that is, when moved at 90° from 
the brushes, the increase of tension must be 
greatest. This is nearly the case in Fig. 
350, where the course is almost exactly a 
sinus line. The measurements relating to 
the division of the tension at the collector 
are of great practical interest. They not 
only show where the brushes should be 
placed in order to gain the best eflPect, but 
also permit judgment as to the efficiency of the bobbins 
in various parts of the magnetic field. If the brushes are 




iufif unto/' TtntioHS at 
Colfector of badly ar- 
ranged Dynamo, 



FiQ. 8B8. 




fiiiiiiilli-illli 



HortMontal Diagram of Tension* at Collector of 
badly arranged Dynamo, 

located at the wrong place, or if the pole-pieces of the field- 
magnets have a wrong shape, the run of the tensions at the 
collector will be irregular, and maxima and minima of ten- 
sion will be observed at other points than those where the 



504 DTNAMO-BLBCTBIG MACHINES. 

brushes touch the collector. An actual diagram of the 
. relations of tension at the collector of a machine of faulty 
construction is shown in Fig. 351. It is transferred to a 
horizontal line in Fig. 352. By these it is to be seen that 
the division of tension at the collector is irregular, and so 
much so that one portion of the collector has a greater posi- 
tive tension than at the positive brush, and another portion 
a greater negative tension than at the negative brush. 

Therefore, a portion of the current produced by the ma- 
<chine is destroyed by another portion ; and it would be pos- 
sible to lead off another current by another pair of brushes 
placed so as to touch at these maximal and minimal points 
of tension. In the English patent No. 1640 of 1882 one 
Kennedy has obtained a patent on a machine, which, in con- 
isequence of its incorrect construction, gives off currents at 
.six differently-placed brushes. 

All machines with collectors and simple magnetic fields 
,give curves like the one in Fig. 349. The Brush machine, 
however, which has a simple magnetic field, but a conmiu- 
tator instead of a collector, shows an entirely different ^lis- 
Fie. 868. position of the tension. Over one-eighth of 

the circmnference on each side of the points 
of contact of the positive brush there is no 
perceptible difference of tension : — all points 
have the same tension, which is that of the 
brush itself. The same is the case in the 
Miatrli!^^ Ten- noighborhood of the negative brush, where 
stons at Brush ^^q tcusiou has the constant vafue due to 

Commutator. 

this brush. Between these there are points 
where the tension becomes smaller, and, passing through 
zero, changes its signs. This is shown in diagram, Fig. 353. 

BKD OF FIRST VOLUMB. 




APPENDIX. 



THE UNITS OF MEASDBEMENT OF THE ABSOLUTE, OE 
0. G. S. SYSTEM. 

a. MECHANICAL UNITS. 

1. Unit of Length. 1 Centimeter (C) = j^ of the length of 
the measuring rod, or metre, made by Borda and preserved in the 
»cellar8 of the Paris observatory (Dim. C*). 

2. Unit of Mass. 1 Gramme (0) = the quantity of 1 cu. cm. 
of distilled water at its greatest density (4° Cels.). (Dim. G^.) 

3. Unit of Time. 1 Second (S) = 86400 part of the mean 
day of the sim. (Dim. 8^.) 

4. Unit of Forcb. 1 Dyne (Z>) = that power which acting 
for one second upon the weight of one gramme, gives this the veloc- 
ity of 1 cm. per second. (Dim. C O S~*,) 

Technical Unit. 1 Kilogramme = 98100 Dynes. 

5. Unit of Power. 1 Erg. {B) =z the labor performed by the 
Dyne 1 when it travels the distance of 1 cm. (Dim. C* S~*.) 

Technical Units. 
1 Meterkilogramme = 98,100,000 Ergs. 
1 Watt = jtJy Meterkilogramme = 1 Volt-Ampdre. 
1 Pferdestarke (German and French horse-power) 

= 75 Meterkilogramme = 736 Watt. 
1 Horse-power (English and American) = 76 Meterkilogramme 

= 746 Watt. 



506 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 

6. The Unit of Effect is the labor performed during one 
second. (Erg-Second.) (Dim. (7« O S'^.) 

Technical Units. 
1 Second-Meterkilograrame = 98,100,000 Erg-Second. 
1 Second-Pferdestarke = 75 Second-Meterkilogramme. 

b. ELECTRICAL UNITS (Electro-magnetic System). 

1. The Unit of the Quantity of Electricity is that which, 
acting upon a mass which is 1 cm. distant, exerts a force equal to one 
dyne. (Dim. C'*6?i.) 

Technical Unit. 1 Coulomb = lO"* ((7 G^ S) units. 

2. The Unit of the Strength of Current is that quantity 
which propagates 1 Coulomb through the cross-section of the wire 
in 1* second. (Dim. C^O^S-^.) 

Technical Unit. 1 Ampere = 10~i (C O 8) units. 

3. The Unit of Tension is that tension (potential difference) 
between two points which requires the expenditure of one unit of 
force (1 Dyne) to move 1 Coulomb from one point to the other by 
overcoming the electrical repulsion. (Dim. C* O^ S~*). 

Technical Unit. 1 Volt = 10^ (C G S) units. 

4. The Unit of Resistance is that resistance which allows^ 
the passage of the quantity of electricity of 1 Coulomb between 
two points in one second with the tension 1 (10~« Volt). (Dim. 
CS-K) 

Technical Unit. 1 Ohm = 10* (C G S) units. 

5. The Unit of Capacity is that capacity which, charged 
under the tension (1 (10"* Volt), contains the quantity of electricity 
1 (1 Coulomb). (Dim. C-* .9«.) 

Technical Unit. 1 Farad = lO-» {C G 8) units. 

These units, multiplied or divided by 10* are termed mega • . . ,. 

micro . . . 



APPENDIX. 



607 



VARIOUS RESISTANCE UNITS. 

(Report of the Committee on Electrical Standard.) 



Ohm 

Siemenv 

Meter 

^g^. 10' (Weber) 

Digney (1 km. iron wire 4 mm.) 
Yarlev (1 mile copper wire ' 

Jacobi (96 ft. copper wire 845 

graine) 

German mile (iron wire } in.). . 



I 



1.000 
0.9687 

0.9191 

9.966 

96.61 

0.6867 
67.44 



1.0486 
1.000 

0.9686 

9.71 

96.88 

0.6674 
60.90 



1.068 
1.088 

1.000 

10.06 

37.86 

0.6095 
69.48 



0.1079 
0.1080 

0.09919 

1.000 

9.768 

0.06869 
6.198 



I 



0.08906 
0.08796 

0.06691 

0.«B0 

1.000 

0.08486 
9.948 



1.670 
1.498 

1.444 

14.66 

40.91 

1.000 
90.99 



0.01741 I 
0.01661 

0.01666 I 

0.1618 ! 

0.4467 

0.01108 
1.000 



According to Siemens £ Hahhe, 1 Ohm = 1.0615 Siemens, 
VARIOUS CURRENT UNITS. 





Ampdre. 


Daniell 


Jacobi. 


Silver. 


Copper. 


Siemens. 


Ampdre 


1.000 

1.17 

9.68 

1.48 

5.09 


0.85 

1.00 

0.089 

0.018 

0.048 


10.99 

19.81 

1.00 

0.156 

0.699 


67.66 

79.16 

6.48 

1.00 

8.40 


19.86 

98.98 

1.89 

0.994 

1.00 


Daniell-Siemens 

Jacobi (ccm. oxyhydr. gas 1 Min.) 

Rtlvf^r (prac^pitAt^^, 1 mgr. 1 M.) 


Copper' •■' ''' " ' 



NORMAL ELEMENTS, OR BATTERY CELLS. 

Daniell [Zn, ZnSO^ (1.18), CuSO^ (1.16), Cu\ = 1.11 Volt 
'' [Zuy H^ S 0^ (1.15), CuSO^ (1.15), Cu] = 1.19 " 

" Post-office of London = 1.07 " 

Element Latimer-Clark = 1.46 " 

" Bunsen = 2.05 " 

" Grove = 2.06 " 

The numbers in parentheses designate the densities of the elec- 
trolytes, water being = 1.00. 



COMPARISON OF THE VARIOUS WIRE MEASUREMENTS. 

For the following tables, 1 millimeter (according to Scientific 
American) = 0.393685 Eng. inches. 

The three systems in use are : 

Brown & Sharpens American Wire Gauge {Am. W. 0. or B. S 8. 
W. G.). 

Stubs or Birmingham Wire Gauge {B. W. ff.). 

Old English or London Wire Gauge. 



508 



D7NAM0-BLBCTBIC UACHIlTES. 



A. AFPBOXIMATELT COmtESPOHBIVG HUMBEBS OF THESE THESE STBTEKB. 



^8. 


fj 


i 


1i 


|s 


i| 


' "^i ' 


ire Gtnge. 


1 

"1 


No. 


Is 




1 ATo. 


s^ 




1 JW>. I 

1 « 1 


SS^ 




0000 


0000-3i 


0000- J4 


14 


u^ 


143^ 


28 


»H 


000 


0004 


0004 


18 


IS 


15 


28 


294 


804 


00 


00>i 


004 


14 


16 


16 


1 29 


80'., 


82 




04 


04 


16 


17 


17 


80 


81 


S8X 




^% 


IH 


, *® 


175C 


17H 


81 1 


82 


86 




8 


8 


17 


184 


IBH 


32 . 


88 


»X 




44 


^H 


. 18 


lOH 


19 


88 1 


84 


»H 




A 


6 


1 19 


19!^ 


19K 


84 1 


MKi 


87)4 




7 


7 


90 


21 


21 


86 1 


9ih 


88^ 




8 


8 


; 21 


22 


^H 


86 1 


85 


894 




•H 


»>i 


1 » 


28 


24 


! 87 


864 


40 




10^ 


10)i 


88 


Kii 


25X 


88 


86 






11^ 


114 


M 


26 


20 


1 39 


— 


— 


10 


W4 


12)i 


, t6 


26 


«H 


1 40 


_ 


_ 


11 


184 


184 


1 » 


^ 


284 


I — 


— 


— 



The measurements used ii^ commerce for the Birmingham and 
Old English wire gauge have been changed so nluch in time, that 
they cannot be depended upon with any certainty. 



B. THZ0KHE88E8 OF WIEE8 OF THE BIFFEBEHT OAUaES^ DT BECIMAL8 OT 

EKGLIBH DICHE8. 

mm. = 0.0898666 inches.) (1 inch = 26.40102 mm.) 



No. 


Old 


1 Binnlngh. 


' Brown 


No. 


Old 


Birmingh. 


Brown 


English. 


W.G 


, A Shsrpe. 

1 


English. 


W.G. 


ASharpe. 


0000 


0.464 


0.454 


' 0.46000 


19 


0.040 


0.042 


0.08689 


000 


0.426 


0.426 


• 0.40964 


20 


0086 


0.066 


0.08196 


00 


0.880 


0.880 


0.86180 


21 


0.0815 


0.082 


0.08846 





0.840 


0.340 


1 0.8^95 


22 


0.0296 


0.028 


0.09685 


1 


0.300 


0.300 


0.280.^ 


28 


0.0270 


0.025 


0.02K7 


2 


0.284 


0.2t»4 


0.25768 


24 


0.0250 


0.022 


0.02010 


8 


0.280 


0.269 


0.22942 


25 


0.0980 


0.020 


01190 


4 


0.238 


0.288 


0.20431 


26 


0.0206 


0.018 


0.01564 


6 


0.220 


0.220 


0.18194 


27 


0.01875 


0.016 


0.01419 


6 


0.20S 


0.208 


0.16202 


28 


0.016&0 


0.014 


0.01264 


7 


0.180 


0.180 


0.14428 


29 


01660 


0.018 


01126 


8 


0.165 


0.165 


0.12849 


30 


0.01875 


0.012 


01002 


9 


0.148 


0.148 


0.11448 


81 


0.01226 


0.010 


O.00B98 


10 


0.134 


0.184 


0.10189 


82 


0.01125 


0.009 


0.00795 


11 


0.120 


0.120 


' 0.090T4 


38 


0.01026 


0.008 


0.00708 


12 


0.109 


0.109 


0.060R1 


i 84 


0.00960 


0.007 


O.O0680 


18 


0.095 


0.096 


0.07196 


86 


0.00900 


0.006 


0.00561 


14 


0.083 


0.083 


0.06408 


86 


0.00750 


0.004 


O.OOGOO 


■ 15 


0.072 • 


0.072 


0.05707 


87 


0.00660 




0.0M45 


16 


0.036 


0.065 


0.060»2 


38 


0.00575 


-<- 


0.008965 


17 


0.068 


0.068 


0.04525 


39 


0.00500 





0.008581 


18 


0.048 


0.049 


0.04030 


40 


0.00460 


— 


O.00B144 



APPENDLS. 



M9, 



0. TABLE OF WHOHT AHD BESI8TAHGB OF FUBB OOPFIX WIU (LAK£ 

8UPSBI0B,Tr.8.A.). 

The nnmben are those of Brown and Sharpe's American Wire Gaoge. Feet and pounds are 

English. 



No. 


POUHIM 
PSR 

1000 Ft. 


Pert pbb Pound. 


Bbsistahcs or Naked Copper at 
75* Fahrimhiit. 


III 


Woand 
with 
silk. 


Naked. 


Ohm 
per 1000 ft. 


Ohm 

per 
finglish 
mire = 


Feet 
tperohmiL 


Ohm 
per ponnd. 














6880 ft. 






0000 


689.88 


__ 


_^ 


1.66 


0.051 


__ 


19606.69 


0.0000798 


000 


507.01 


— 


— _ 


1.97 


0.064 


— 


16547.87 


0.000127 


00 


408.00 


— 


— 


9.49 


0.081 


— 


19880.86 


0.000802 




819.04 


_ 


— 


8.18 


•.168 


— 


1 9788.63 


0.0008SO 




868.88 


— 


— 


8.96 


0.199 


— 


7254.66 


0.000510 




900.54 


— 


— 


4.99 


0.168 


— 


6149.73 


0.000811 




189.00 


__ 


— 


6.S9 


0.905 


— 


4876.78 


0.001280 




196.19 


— 


— 


7.96 


0.869 


~ 


8867.89 


0.00905 




100.01 


_ 


— 


10.00 


0.826 


^ 


8007.06 


0.00826 




79.89 


— 


— 


19.61 


0.411 


— 


9488.92 


0.00518 




09.90 


_ 


_ 


15.90 


0.619 


— 


1928.75 


0.00824 




49.88 


— 


— 


90.05 


0.664 


8.8 


1629.69 


0.01811 




89.56 


— 


— 


96.98 


0.894 


4.1 


1218.82 


0.03068 


10 


81.87 


— 


— 


81.88 


1.040 


4.4 


961.91 


0.08814 


11 


94.88 


— 


— 


40.90 


1.811 


6.4 


769.98 


0,05299 


IS 


19.78 


49 


46 


60.09 


1.668 


8.8 


606.08 


O.088T7 


18 


16.66 


66 


00 


63.91 


9.584 


10.4 


479.80 


0.18821 


14 


18.41 


68 


75 


80.60 


9.8« 


18.8 


880.51 


0.2118 


15 


9.84 


87 


96 


101.68 


8.814 


16.7 


801.75 


0.8868 


1« 


7.81 


no 


190 


198.14 1 


4.179 


98 


289.82 


0.5855 


17 


6.19 


140 


160 


161.60 


5.969 


96 


189.78 


0.8616 


18 


4.91 


176 


190 


908.78 


6.645 


88 


150.60 


1.3589 


19 


8.78 


820 


910 


904.96 


8.617 


48 


116.06 


9.9n2 


90 


8.09 


980 


806 


894.00 


10.566 


58 


94.65 


8.428 


91 


9.45 


860 


890 


408.56 


18.888 


68 


75.00 


5.443 


2S 


1.94 


460 


490 


615.15 


16.790 


85 


69.58 


8.604 


U 


1.54 


560 


616 


649.66 


21.186 


^08 


47.20 


18.768 


M 


1.98 


715 


775 


819.91 


96.718 


186 


87.43 


21.885 


86 


0.97 


910 


990 


1068.96 


88.684 


170 


99.69 


84.796 


96 


0.77 


1166 


1265 


1802.61 


42.477 


914 


28.54 


65.881 


87 


0.61 


1446 


1570 


1649.66 


58.568 


970 


18.68 


87.979 


88 


0.48 


1810 


1970 


9071.99 


67.542 


848 


14.81 


189.898 


80 


0.88 


8S80 


9480 


9611.82 


65.170 


489 


11.74 


922.449 


80 


0.80 


8806 


80BO 


3293.97 i 


107.891 


568 


9.31 


858.742 


81 


0.84 


8606 


8990 


4198.99 


185.402 


685 


7.89 


562.291 


88 


0.19 


4536 


4080 


6836.66 j 
6608.71 1 


170.765 


865 


6.86 


894 949 


88 


0.15 


— 


6800 


215.812 


1033 


4.64 


1421.646 


84 


0.19 


— 


7880 


88il8.aOl 


971.588 


1889 


8.6d 


8261.82 


85 


0.10 


— 


9880 


10501.86 


848.448 


1890 


9.99 


8596.10 


86 


0.08 


— 


19490 


18888.88 


481.719 


8^ 


9.32 


6715.86 


87 


0.04 


— 


— 


16601.06 1 


544.997 


9874 


1.84 


9084.71 


88 


0.0^ : 


— 


^ 


20664.65 


686.511 


8^25 


1.46 


14820 26 


. 80 


0.04 1 


— 


— 


26802.28 


865.046 


4t67 


1.16 


92759.60 


40. 


0.00 


— , 


— 


88175.94 


1091.805 


6^66 


0.99 


80888.60 

— 



510 



DYNAUO-BLECTBIC MACHINES. 



B. AFFBOXDCATB YALXTE OF BEOQIAU IV THE OmTOXABT FRACnOVS OF 



^ = aoifi6 

^ = 0.0312 
A =0.0468 
^ = 0.0885 
^ = 0.0781 ^ 
-^ = 0.0987 
^ = 0.1098 



AH EHGUSH ni CH. 

i =aiiBO 

■fl = 0.1406 

U = 0.1718 
■^ = 0.1875 
f J = 0.8081 
A = 0JM8T 



if = o-»« 

i = J6 

^ = JH66 
A = 0.8818 
H = 0^968 
A = 0.8185 
fj = 0«l 



£. MEASirSEfl nr the BBCDIAL STBTEX (BBEGXTET). 



Nnmber of 

Meters for 

1 Kilogramme 

of Naked 

Copper. 


Diameter in 
Millimeters. 


Nnmber of 


Nnmber of 

Meters for 

1 Kilogramme 

of Naked 

Copper. 


Diameter in 
Mlllimetera. 


Nnmber of the 
Oaroaaae. 


10 




90 


1 680 


6.98 


94 


16 




18 


9400 


0.96 


96 


10 




17 


8906 


0.94 


98 


86 




16 


4 100 


0.99 


98 


SO 




15 


5 180 


O.SO 


80 


84 




14 


5800 


0.18 


81 


40 




18 


6 410 


0.16 


89* 


64 




19 


7000 


0.14 


88 


66 




11 


8600 


0.11 


84 


70 




10 


10 000 


0.09 


86 


75 






18 500 


0.08 


40 


85 






16 000 


0.06 


44 


100 






99 000 


0.04 


60 


187 






~ 


_ 


— 


160 






— 


— 


— 


180 


0.9 




— 


— 


— 


906 


0.8 




— 


— 


— 


880 


0.7 




» 


— 





418 


0.6 




— 


— 


— 


546 


0.5 




— 


— 


— 


645 


0.47 


Oaroa^pe. 






• 


685 


0.44 


14 


^ 


— 


— 


748 


0.40 


16 


— 


— 


— 


1090 


0.87 


18 


— 


«. 


«. 


1800 


0.84 


to 


— 


^ 


». 


14S0 


0.81 


99 


— 


— 


— 



APPENDIX- 



611 



TABU OF THE BDCXKfllOVB, LEVOTH, BS8I8TAVCE AND WZIOHT OF FtlBE 

COFFEB WISE. 

A wire of chemically pare copper 1 m. long and 1 mm. diameter 

weighs 6.990 grammes, and has a resistance of 0.022156 ohm at 15"" 

Cels. Jf wt is the resistance of the copper wire at t^, «?, ^ at 15®, 

then 

Wi5 = w^ [1 — 0.0038 (t — 16°)]. 



Diameter. 


Clrcumfer- 


Section. 


Kilc»g. per 


Meter per 


Olmper 
rkm. 


Kilometer 


mm. 


eDce. 




Im. 


1kg. 


per 1 Ohm. 


0.5 


1.6T08 


0.1968 


0.00175 


ff».88 


88.684 


0.01196 


1.0 


8.1416 


0.7854 


0.00699 


148.06 


88.156 


0.04618 


1.6 


4.7194 


1.7871 


0.01678 


68.68 


9.8479 


0.10155 


S.O 


6.28» 


8.1416 


0.08796 


86.77 


6.6890 


0.1806 


S.6 


7.8540 


4.9087 


0.04800 


88.88 


8.5460 


0.88147 


8.0 


9.4948 


7.0686 


0.06991 


16.80 


8.4618 


0.40681 


3.5 


10.996 


9.6811 


0.08568 


11.68 


1.8068 


0.56878 


4.0 


12.566 


12.666 


0.1118 


8.949 


1.8848 


0.72816 


4.6 


14.187 


15.904 


0.1415 


7.066 


1.094a 


0.91386 


6.0 


15.708 


19.685 


0.1747 


6.789 


0.8868 


1.1959 


6.5 


17.9TO 


88.766 


0.8114 


4.780 


0.7886 


1.8658 


6.0 


18.850 


98.874 


0.9516 


4.974 


0.6166 


1.6849 


6.5 


90.490 


88.188 


0.8988 


8.4M 


0.6844 


1.9069 


7.0 


21.991 


88.484 


0.8486 


9.090 


0.4588 


8.8114 


7.5 


93.568 


44.179 


0.8088 


8.548 


0.3889 


8.6838 


8.0 


95.188 


60.265 


0.4474 


2.285 


0.8408 


8.8686 


8.6 


98.704 


56.746 


0.5060 


1.960 


0.8067 


8.8606 


9.0 


28.274 


68.617 


0.6668 


1.706 


0.S786 


8.6660 


9.5 


99.846 


70.888 


0.6806 


1.665 


0.8456 


4.0744 


10.0 


81.416 


78.540 


0.6990 


1.481 


0.8816 


4.5185 


11.0 


84.568 


95.068 


0.8466 


1.188 


0.1881 


5.4006 


19.0 


87.689 


118.097 


1.0066 


1.248 


0.1589 


6.4994 


18.0 


40.841 


189.788 


1.1818 


0.860 


0.1811 


7.6878 


14.0 


48.969 


158.988 


1.8T00 


0.7899 


0.1180 


8.8457 


16.0 


47.194 


176.715 


i.nsr 


0.685R 


0.00647 


10.1549 


16 


50.966 


901.069 


1.T604 


0.5689 


0.06666 


11.5545 


17.0 


58.407 


296.960 


8.0801 


0.4960 


0.07667 


18.0481 


18.0 


66.549 


254.400 


8.2648 


0.4415 


0.06688 


14.6887 


19.0 


50.090 


288.680 


2.6884 


0.8968 


0.06137 


16.2978 


90. 


69.889 


814.150 


8.7900 


0.8577 


0.06689 


18.0540 


96.0 


78.540 


480.874 


4.8686 


0.3388 


0.08645 


28.1470 


80.0 


94.948 


706.858 


6.8910 


0.1669 


0.02468 


40.6215 


85.0 


109.96 


968.118 


8.6635 


0.1168 


0.01809 


55.2785 


40.0 


125.66 


1256.64 


11.1846 


0.06048 


0.01885 


72.2160 


45.0 


141.87 


1690.48 


14.1688 


0.07068 


0.01094 


91.8960 


60.0 


157.06 


1968.60 


17.4758 




0.00666 


119.688 



512 



DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES. 



I 



3 



o 



i 
M 



it 






o 



o 
g 


IS 

a 
p 


o 

o 


ooooooooodododdoooodd 


o 




o 

00 


ddodddooodddddddddddd 


g 


dddddddddddddddodd^*-^^* 


§ 


iislliiiiiil§?§5S = SS2- 


§ 


O O^O OOdTir-iiHT^i-irH»-ii-tiM^r--<^»^»H 


o 

CO 


|S&q^^a^^^^^^^. gSi^n^SS 


8 8:9??38s'kBS8»8SS888S?S 


o 

f-« 


S^ S S g| 2S $ 9! S 6 ^ S S S S s; S g $ !o ^ ^ 

^ 9( <ri ej M e« o«! at M « oi e< M eo CO 00 CO ec eo 00 CO 


«t otiet oi M o5 CO « oS CO 00 CO ^' ^ ^- ni TT ^- ^' ^ >o 


«^^^*^'^"^«irf«o«ddddddt^^:tC 


»c 


SSSSSSSSeob-0'<«a6i-<iQaofl««co)eoeo 
tJQ6ada6ddddd;^^*j^©j3««c5«;;;;jo 


r-t 






r 


1 






it 


2 


Or-i«eS'*iO»t-«0»0;5G5W5;»2««:;Qgeftg 



APPENDIX. 



513 



TABLE OF THE LOSS OF ENEBOT AND HEATDTO OF COFFEE WIBE GIECVITS. 

(According to R. Sabine.) 

The table Is Intended for naked copper clrcnit«, enepended in the air, of varioos diameters in cm., and for 
various strengths of current in ampdres, the loss of energy for 1 km. of circuit In horse-power (U. P.), and the 
heating of the circuit in degrees Celsius (Cels.). 



Diam- 


5 


10 


20 


80 


40 


50 


1 60 


70 , 


80 


90 


eter. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


j Amp. 


Amp. 1 


Amp. 


Amp. 


cm. 




1 




i 




i. 




1 




i 


Pi 

czi 


1 




i 




1! 


Pi 


i 




1 


1 
0.1 


0.72 21 


2.9 


82 


11.7 


880 


21.7 


740 


























0.15 , 


0.82 6 


1.1 


24 


4.4 


97 


10.0 


216 


























0.2 1 


0.18 8 


0.72 


10 


2.9 


41 


6.9 


92 


























0.25 1 


0-11 1 


0.46 


6 


1.8 


21 


4.4 


47 


7.8 


85, 


11.9 


120 


















0.3 


O.06 0.8 


0.82 


8 


1.2 


12 


8.1 


27 


5.1 


49 


&2 


80 


12 6 


109 














0.85 1 


0.06 0.5 


0.28 


2 


0.98 


7 


2.2 


17 


8.7 


28| 


5.9 


60 


8.8 


69 


11.8 


90 


14.9 


112 


19.9 


166 


0.4 1 


U05 0.8 


0.18 


1 


0.72 


5 


1.7 


11 


2.9 


21 


4.6 


82 


6.9 


46 


8.9 


60 


11.7 


86 


15.2 


100 


0.5 


0.08 0.1 


0.11 


0.7 


0.46 


8 


1.1 


5 


1.8 


11 1 


2.9 


16 


; 4.1 


24 


6.6 


82 


7.8 


^ 


9.8 


68 


0.6 


0.08 


0,08 


0.4 


0.82 


2 


0.77 


8 


1.8 


ol 


2.0 


10 


2.9 


14 


8.9 


19 


6.1 


84 


6.6 


81 


0.7 


0.01| 


0.06 


0.2 


0.28 


1 


0.56 


2 


094 


41 


1.5 


6 


, 2.1 




2.9 


12 


8.7 


15 


4.7 


19 


0.8 


0.01 


0.05 


0.2 


0.18 


0.6 


0.48 


1 


0.72 


8 


1.1 


4 


1 1.6 




2.2 


8 


2.9 


10 


8.6 


18 


0.9 


0.01 




0.04 


0.1 


0.14 


0.4 


084 


1 


0.57 


2 


0.89 


8 


1.8 




1.7 


6 


2.8 


7 


8.9 




1.0 


0.01 




0.04 


0.1 


0.12 


0.8 


0.28 


0.7 


0.46 


1 


0.72 


2 


1.0 




1.4 


4 


1.8 


5 


3.8 




l.t 










0.10 


0.2 


0.28 


0.6, 


0.41 


1 


0.50 


2 


0-85 




1.2 


8 


1.6 


4 


1.9 




1.8 










0.09 


0.2 


0.19 


0.4 


0.82 


08 


050 


1 


0.72 




0.98 


2 


1.8 


8 


1.6 




1.3 














0.16 


0.8 


0.27 


0.6 


0.42 


1 


0.61 




0.88 


2 


1.1 


2 


1.4 




1.4 














0.14 


0.2 


0.28 


0.6 


0.87 


0.8 


0.58 




0.72 


2 


0.94 


2 


1.8 




1.5 














0.18 


0.2 


0.20 


0.4 


0.82 


0.6 


0.46 


0.9 


0.62 


1 0.81 


2 


1.0 




1.6 


















0.18 


0.4' 


0.28 


OA 


0.40 


08 


0.66 


1 


■ 0.72 


1 


0.91 




1-7. 
















1 






0.25 


0.4 


0.86 


0.6 


0.49 


0.8 


0.64 


1 


0.81 




1.8 






















0.22 


0.8 


0.82 


0.5 


0.48 


0.7 


0.57i 0.9 


0.71 




1.9 


























0.29 


0.4 


0.89 


0.6 1 0.61 0.8 


a64 




2.0 


























0.26 


0.4 


0..35 


0A\ 0.46 0.7 


0.681 1 


Diam- 


100 


200 


800 


400 


600] 


600 


70 





800 


900 


lOOO 


eter. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


An 


ip. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


Amp. 


fii 


tB 


oJ 


^ 


(^ 


i 


Ph' 


.9 


P^ 


S 


Ph' 


i\ 


»; 


ji 


Ph' 


• 


Pi 


.9 


fii 


.5 


cm. 


ri 


§ 


n 


3 


m 


n 


8 


n 


S 


m 


W 


S 


n 


s 


m 


6 


m 


S 


0.6 


ao 


88 


88 


160 


































0.7 


6.8 


24 


28 96 


































0.8 


4.5 


16 


18: 64 


40 


146 






























0.9 


8.5 


11 


14 45 


81 


99 






























1.0 


2.9 


8 


11.5 88 


S6 


72 






























1.1 


2.4 


6 


9.5, 35 


22 


64 


88 


100 


























1.2 


2.0 


5 


8.0 


19 


18 


46 


82 


76 


























1.8 


1.7 


4 


6.8 


16 


15 


84 


27 


60 


42 


106 






















1.4 


1.5 


8 


5.9 


18 


18 


27 


24 


48 


87 


78 


53 


100 


















1.5 


1.8 


2 


5.1 


10 


11 


22 


20 


89 


82 


60 


46 


00 


















1.6 


1.1 


2 


1 4.5 


8 


10 ' 18 


18 


82 


28 


60 


40 


74 


















1.7 


1.0 


2 


4.0 


7 


8.9 


15 


16 


97 


26 


46 


86 


60 


















1.8 


0.9 


1 


8.5 


.6 


8.0 


13 


14 


28 


22 


85 


82 


Si 


















1.9 


0.8 


1 


8.1 


5 


7.1 


11 


18 


19 


20 


80 


29 


44 


















2.0 


0.7 


1 


1 ^'^ 


4 


6.4 




11 


16 


18 


25 


26 


87 


85 


48 


45 


65 


68 


80 


72 


100 


2.2 


0.6 


1 


1 2.4 


8 


5.8 




9.5 


12 


16 


19 


21 


28 


80 


88 


88 


481 


47 


68 


60 


78 


2.4 


0.5 


1 


2.0 


2 


4.5 




8.0 


10 


18 


15 


18 


21 


26 


80 


82 


401 


41 


47 


52 


60 


2.6 


0.6 


1 


1 1.7 


2 


8.8 




6.8 


8 


11 


12 


15 


17 


21 


24 


27 


82 


84 ' 87| 


44 


47 


2.8 


0.4 


1 


1 1.4 


2 


8.8 




5.8 


6 


9.1 


9 


18 


18 


18 


18 


28 


24 


80 , so' 


86 


86 


8.0 






1.8 


1 


2.9 




. 5.1 


5 


8.0 


8 


11 


11 


1 16 


15 


20 


201 


26 . 25,1 82 


80 


8.2 






1.2 


1 


2.5 




4.5 


4 


7.0 




10 


9 


: 18 


12 


18 ; 16 


23 1 20 1 28 


25 


8.4 










2.2 




8.9 


8 


6.2 


5 


8.7 


8 


1 ^* 


10 


16 ! 18 , 


20 1 17 


25 


21 


8.6 










2.0 




8.6 


8 


6.4 




7.9 


6 


I 11 





14 


11 


18 14 


22 


18 


8.8 










1.8 




8.8 


2 


5.0 




7.1 


6 


10 


7 


12 


9 


16 12 


20 


15 


4.0 


















4.5 




6.4 


5 


8.8 


6 


11 


8 


15 , 10 


> 18 


12 


4.5 


















8.5 




6.1 


8 


6.9 


4 


0.1 


6 


11 7 14 


9 


5.0 






















4.1 


2 


5.6 


8 


7.8 


4 


9.8 6 11 


6 


• 5.5 


























4.7 


2 


6.1 


8| 


7.7 4 9.5 


6 


6.0 




















1 










6.1 


2l 


6.4 8 1 7.9 1 4 



6U 



D7NAH0-KLBCTBIC MACHINES. 



« tf 



I i 



I 






s 



CO 

3 



s 



II 



§: -n I «»i6W^«6e90«M i« tgj IqI 1^ l«e I 



?fl 



i§sa"s 



si-si 



^. ri 



11 






fi E^ 

m 



I 



I 



I. 

o 



ssssssssssisiaisisisi 









88801000000 00000 



oSSBaSaBQDSXS S 80 85 S w 



iiilSiiiillliSiiiilii 



Silliliii§ii>|iiiiii 



s 



SgS§8S|||$S§8§S|>|§§S 



§iSi§§§|SSSiS§§|§|S|g 



^ I 

CD 



'*«l«ll!5*'*'a'i'i'ii 






s§;§ 



s 






I 

§ 

I 

9 



o, 

si 



oB ^ O 1 OD 



I I 
I "I 



INDEX. 



AdTantages of the Gramme Machine, 



Alarm Machine, 114. 

Alliance Mafneto • Electric Machine, 

105. 
Alternating Current Machines, 400, 491. 
Alternating Current Machine, Ferranti- 
ThomBon, 438. 

Gordon's, 426. 

Gramme'a, 405. 

JablochkoflTs, 414. 

Lachanasee's, 422. 

Iiontin'8, 401. 

Siemens & Halske's, 416. 
Ampere, the, 76. 
Appendix, 505. 
Arago Disk Dynamo-Electric Machine, 

896. 
Armature, Disk, 498. 

Drum, 808, 495. 

Gramme's, 221. 

Heinrich's, 298. 

Pole, 498. 500. 

Ring, 498, 499. 

Rotation of an, 6t. 

Siemens', 110. 

Spool, 499. 
Ayrton & Perry's Dynamometer, 61. 

Electric Dynamometer, 88.* 

Galvanometers, 79. 

Photometer, 94. 



Batterv Cells, 507. 

Bee Carcel, 91. 

Blasting Machine, Smith's, 152. 

Brackett's Dynamometer, 71. 

Brake Dynamometer, 67. 

Brash's Compound Windin^^, 488. 

Dynamo- Electric Machine, 169. 
Bunsen Photometer, 98. 
BOrgin's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 
886. 



Candle. German standard, 91. 



Candle, Munich, 91. 

Standard, 91. 
Carcel Lamp, 91. 
Central-Magnet Machines, 867, 869, 4H, 

Elphlnstone & Vincent's, 454. 

Jargensen's, 867. 

Weston's, 869. 
C. G. S. System, 505. 
Characteristic Curve, Deprez's, 475. 
Classification of Dynamo-Electric Mar 

chines, 491. 
Clarke's Magneto-Electric Machine, 101. 
Circuits, machines with separated, 479. 
Collector, 50, 501. 
Commutator, 102. 
Compound - Wound Dynamo - Electric 

Machines, 488, 488. 
Constant-Current Machines, 492. 
Constant-Electromotive-Force Machines, 

883,481,484,486,490. 
Constant intensity, 485, 487. 

Tension, 481, 484, 486, 490. 
Continuous Current Machines, 204, 492. 

Dynamo-Electric Machines, 204. 

Ma^eto-Electric Machines, 204. 
Conversion of mechanical to electric 

force, 130, 184, 186. 
Current, division of, 95. 
Currents, alternating, 400. 

Galvanic, 26. 

Parallel, 26. 

Machines for producing divided, 
400. 
Curve, Deprez's Characteristic, 475. 



Daniel], the, 76. 

Deductions from main equation, 464. 

Deficiencies of the Gramme Madiine, 

264. 
De Meriten's Magneto-Electric Machine, 

120. 
Deprez's Characteristic Curve, 475. 
Galvanometers, 79. 
Magneto-Electric Machine, 118. 
Disk Armature, 498. 

Dynamo-Electric Machines, Arago« 
396. 



516 



INDEX. 



Disk Macliines. Edison's, 487. 

Fenranti-Thomson's, 483. 

Uochhausen's, 451. 
Direct-Current Machines, 401. 
Division of ( -urrent, 95. 
Drum Armature, 303, 405. 
Dynamic Induction, 34. 
Dynamo-Electric Equilibrium, 459. 

Exploder, Siemens & Halske's, 149. 

Machines, 129. 
Dynamo-Electric Machine, Arago, 896. 

Brush's, 169. 

BUrgin's, 886. 

Compared with Magneto-Electric, 

Compound-Wound, 483. 

For Constant E. M. F., 481. 

Edison's. 848. 

Edison-Gramme, the, 261. 

Elphinstone A Vincent's, 464. 

Fein's. 269. 

FitSRerald's, 299. 

Fuller's, 886. 

FullerGramme, 244. 

Gramme's, 225. 

Gramme's for Electric Light, 285. 

GalTanoplastics, 281. 
Gulcher's, 801. 
Hefner-Alteneck's, 808, 890. 
Hochhausen's, 160, 277 
Jurgensen's, 867. 
Ladd's, 154. 
Levett-Muller's, 422. 
Lontin's, 884. 
McTighe's, 255. 
Maxim's, 846. 
M6hring's, 167. 
Purifying Metals, for, 818. 
Schuckert's, 271. 
Seeley's, 896. 
Shunt- Wound, 474. 
Siemens', 146. 

Siemens A Halske's, 808, 811. 
Siemens' Principle of, 129. 
Siemens & Halske's Two- Armature, 

159. 
Theory of, 458, 477. 
Thomson's, 189. 
Thomson Houston, 189. 
Wallace Farmer's. 882. 
WVston's. 164, 320. , 

Wheutstone'n, 148. 

I>ynamometer, Ayrton & Perry's, 61. 
Ayrton & Perry's Electric, 88. 
Brackett's, 71. 
Brake, 67. 
r Electro-, of Siemens & Halake, 78. 
Grading of. 62. 
Hefner-Alteneck's. 68. 
Kent's, 67. 



E 



Edison's Disk Machines, 487. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 848. 

-Gramme Machine. 261. 

Magneto-Electric Machine, 445. 

Meter, 85. 

Motor, 120. 

Photometer, 98. 

Registering Apparatus, 85. 
Electrical Energy, 59. 

Measurements, 59. 
Electric Dynamometer, Ayrton & Per- 
ry's. 88. 
Electro- Dynamometer, 78. 
Electro-Magnet, 15. 
Elias Machine, 219. 
Elphinstone & Vincent Machine, 454. 
Eneray, 59. 

Electrical, 59. 
Elquation, Deductions from the Main, 

464. 
Equation of Equilibrium, 461. 
Equilibrium, Equation of, 461. 

Proportions for Dynamo-Electric, 

Equividents of Mechanical and Electri- 
cal Energy, 77. 



F 

Farmer, M. G., 141. 

Fein's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 260. 

Ferranti-Thomson Alternating-Current 
Machine, 438. 

Field of Force, Magnetic. 63. 

Fitzgerald's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 
299. 

Foot- Power Machine, Gramme's, 229. 

Force, Magnetic, 19. 

Magnetic Field of, 58. 

Fuller's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 886. 

Fuller-Gramme Dynamo-Electric Ma- 
chine, 244. 



G 

Galvanic Currents, 26. 

Induction, 80. 
Galvanometers, 79. 

Ayrton & Perry's, 79. 

Deprea, 79. 

Torsion. 84. 
Gordon's Alternating-Current Ma'^hine, 

426. 
Gramme Armature, Construction of, 
221. 

Alternating-Current Machine, 405. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 225. 



INDEX. 



61? 



Gramme's Dynamo-Electric Machine for 
Electric Light, 235. 
Advantages of the, 264. 
Deficiencies of the, 264. 
For TransmissioQ of Fower, 252. 
Ring, 38. 
Giilcher's Dynamo-Electrie Machine, 
301. 



Hand Machine, Oramme^ji, 229. 
Hef ner-Alteneck's Dvnamo-Electiic Ma- 
chines, 308, 390, 

Dynamometer, 63. 
Heinrich's Armature, 298. 
Hjonh, 148. 
Hochhausen's Disk Machines, 451. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 160, 277. 
Holmes' Magneto-Electric Machine, 109. 
Horse power. Different Values of« 77. 



Induction Coil, 82. 

Dynamic, 84. 

Oalvanic, 80. 

Magnetic, 17, 86. 
Instruments, Measuring, 59. 
Intensity, Constant, by Depres, 486. 



Jablochkoff's Alterttating-Gurrent Ma- 
chine, 414 
Candles, 124. 
Jurgensen's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 
567. 



Kent Dynamometer, 67. 



Lftboratory, Siemens & Halske's Ma- 
chines for, 806. 

Lamp, Carcel, 91. 

Lachaossee Alternating-Current Ma- 
chine, 422. 

Ladd's Two-Armature Dynamo-Electric 
Machine, 154. 

Lerett-MuUer Dynamo -Electric Ma- 
chine, 422. 

Light, Loss of, 95. 

Measurement of, 90. 
Standards of, 91. 

Lines of Magnetic Force, 19. 



Lontin's Alternating-Current MachlnesL 
401. . 
Dynamo-Electric Machine, 884. 
Loss of Light, 95. 



M 

Machines with Separated Circuits* 479. 
McTighe Dynamo - Electric Machine, 

255. 
Biagnet, movement toward closed wire 
ring, 87. 

Steel, 28. 
Magnetic Division, 17. 

Field, 19. 

Field of Force, 58. 

Induction, 17, 36. 
Magneto-Electric Machines, 99. 

Alliance, 104. 

Clarke's. 101. 

Compared with Dynamo-ElectriOi 

De Meritens', 120. 

Deprez's, 118. 

Edison's, 445. 

Holmes', 109. 

Niaudet's, 880. 

Pixii's, 99. 

Saxton's, 102. 

Siemens', 114. 

StOhrer's, 102. 

Wilde's, 114. 
Maxim's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 846L 
Measuring Instruments, 59. 
Measurements, Methods of, 59. 
Measurement of Light, 90. 
Mechanical to Electrical Force, Con- 
version of, 180, 134, 186. 
Methods of Electric Measurements, 59. 
Meter, Edison's, 85. 
M((hring's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 

167. 
Motor, Elias, 219. 

Niaudet's Magneto-Electric MachineL 
380. 



Ohm, the, 76. 
Ohm's Law, 75. 



Pacinnoti's Machine, 204. 
Part 1, 15. 

II, 59. 

III, 99. 

IV, 129. 



518 



INDEX. 



Part V. 204. 

VI. 400. 

VII, 458. 

Photometer, Ayrton & Peny's, 94. 

Bonsen, 93. 

Edison'B, 08. 
Physics, prelinunaiY, 15. 
Plxii's Machine. 00. 
Pole Armatnre, 406. 
Power, Transmission of, 262. 
Preliminary Phjsics, 16. 
Purifying Metals, Machines for, 818. 



B 

Registerinff Apparatus, Edioon's, 85. 

Register of Rotations, 74. 

Regulator, Hochhausen's. 204. 

Regulator, Thomson'B, 107. 

Regulator, Wood's, 240, 

Ring Armature, 408. 

Ring- Armature Machine, Pacinnoti's, 

204. 
Ring, rotation of a, 88. 
Rotation of an Armature, 51. 

Of a Ring, 88. 
Rotations, Register of, 74. 



S 



fiaxton's Ma^eto-Electric Machine, 101. 
Schuckert*8 Dvnamo-Electric Machine, 

271. 
Seeley's Dynamo-Electric Machine, 806. 
Shun^wound Dynamo - Electric Ma- 
chine, 474. 
Siemens' Armature, 110. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 146. 

Magneto-Electric Machine, 114. 
Siemens, the, 76. 

Siemens & Halske's AltematingCurrent 
Machine. 416. 

Dynamo-Electric Machines, 808. 

I^namo-Electric Exploder, 140. 

Electro-Dynamometer, 78. 

Torsion Galvanometer, 84. 

Two - Armature Dynamo - Electric 
Machine, 150. 

Unipolar Machine, 455. 
Smith's Electric Blasting Machine, 152. 
Solenoid, Ampere's, 28. 
Solenoid, attraction of, 26 
Spool Armature, 400. 



Stationary - Armature Machine, Wes- 

ton's, 875. 
StOhrer's Magneto - Electric Machine, 

102. 
Strength of Current, 76. 



Tables, 506. 

Tension, Constant, by Depress, 484. 

Theory of Dynamo Electric Machines^ 

458,477. 
Thomson's Constant Tension, 400. 

Dynamo-Electric Machine, 1^. 

Regulator, 107. 
Torsion Galvanometer, 84. 
Transmission of Power, Gramme's Ma* 
chine for, 253. 



U 

Unipolar Machine, 455. 

Units for Electric^ Measurements, 75» 

505. 
Units, Tables of, 505. 



Varley. 148. 
Volt, 76. 



W 



Wallace-Farmer's Dynamo-Electric M»» 

chine. 882. 
Weber, the. 76. 

Weston's Central - Magnet Dynamo- 
Electric Machine, 360. 

Dvnamo-Electric Machine, 164, 321. 

Machine for Constant E. M. F., 388. 

Stationary -Armature Machine, 876. 
Wheatstone, 188, 186, 141, 147. 

Dynamo- Electric Machine, 147. 
Wilde's Magneto-Electric Machine, 114. 
Winding, Breguet's, 407. 

Edison's, 408. 

FrOlich's, 806. 407. 

Hefner- Alt^neck's. 805, 407. 

Weston's, 820, 840. 
Wire, Measurements of, 507. 

Tablesof Sizes, 508. 

ResiBtanoes, 508. 
Wood's Regulator, 240. 
Worms de Romilly's Machine, 22U 




Cutalogue of the Scientific Publications 
of £). Van Nostrand Company ^ 23 Murray 
Street and 27 Warren Street^ New York, 



ADAMS9 J. W. Sewers and Drains for Populous Dis- 
tricts. Embracing Rules and Formulas for the dimensions and con- 
struction of works of Sanitary Engineers. Second edition. 8vo, 
cloth $2.50 

ALEXANDER, J. H. Universal Dictionary of Weights 

and Measures, Ancient and Modern, reduced to the Standards of 
the United States of America. New edition, enlarged. 8vo, 
cloth $3*50 

ANDERSON, WILLIAM. On the Conversion of Heat 

into Work. A Practical Handbook on Heat-Engines. Illustrated. 
i2mo, cloth $2.00 

ATKINSON, PHILIP. The Elements of Electric 

Lighting, including Electric Generation, Measurement, Storage, 
and Distribution. i2mo, cloth $1.50 

AUCHINCLOSS, W. S. Link and Valve Motions 

Simplified. Illustrated with 37 woodcuts and 21 lithographic plates, 
together with a Travel Scale, and numerous useful tables. Tenth 
edition. »vo, doth ^300 

AXON, W. E. A. The Mechanic's Friend. A Collection 
of Receipts and Practical Suggestions relating to Aquaria, Bronzing, 
Cements, Drawing, Dyes, Electricity, Gilding, Glass- working. Glues, 
Horology, Lacquers, Locomotives, Magnetism, Metal-workinj;, Mod- 
elling, Photography, Pyrotechny, Railways, Solders, Steam-Engine, 
Telegraphy, Taxidermy, Varnishes, Waterproofing, and Miscellane- 
ous Tools, Instruments, Machines, and Processes connected with 
the Chemical and Mechanic Arts. With numerous diagrams and 
woodcuts. Fancy cloth $150 

BACON, F. W. A Treatise on the Richards Steam- 
Engine Indicator, with directions for its use. By Charles T. Porter. 
Revised, with notes and large additions as developed by American 
practice ; with an appendix containing useful formulae and rules for 
engineers. Illustrated. Fourth edition. i2mo, cloth . . . $1.00 



SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS, 



FANNING, J. T. A Practical Treatise on Hydraulic 

and Water-Supplv Engineering. Relating to the Hydrology, Hydro- 
dynamics, and Practical Construction of Water- Works in North 
America. Fifth edition. With numerous tables and i8o illustra- 
tions. 650 pages. 8vo, cloth. Sixth edition, revised, enlarged, and 
new tables and illustrations added $5.00 

FISKE, Lieut. BRADLEY A., U.S.N, Electricity in 

Theor)' and Practice ; or, The Elements of Electrical Engineering. 
Fifth edition. 8vo, cloth $2 50 

FORBES, Prof. GEORGE. Galvanic Batteries. In Press. 

FOSTER, Gen. J. G., U.S.A. Submarine Blasting in 

Boston Harbor, Massachusetts. Removal of Tower and Corwin 
Rocks. Illustrated with 7 plates. 4to, cloth ^3- 50 

FRANCIS, JAS. B., C.E. Lowell Hydraulic Experi- 
ments. Being a selection from experiments on Hydraulic Motors, 
on the Flow of Water over Weirs, in open Canals' of uniform rec- 
tangular section, and through submerged Orifices and diverging 
Tubes. Made at Lowell, Mass. Fourth edition, revised and en- 
larged, with many new experiments, and illustrated with 23 copper- 
plate engravings. 4to, cloth $15.00 

GILLMORE, Gen. Q. A. Treatise on Limes, Hydraulic 

Cements, and Mortars. Papers on Practical Engineering, United 
States Engineer Department, No. 9, containing Reports of numerous 
Experiments conducted in N«w Virfc City during the years 1858 to 
1 861, inclusive. With numerous illustrations. 8vo, cloth . $4.00 

Practical Treatise on the Construction of Roads, 

Streets, and Pavements. With 70 illustrations. r2mo, cloth, $2.00 

Report on Strength of the Building-Stones in the 

United States, etc. 8vo, illustrated, cloth $1.00 

GOODEVE, T. M. A Text-Book on the Steam -Engine. 

With a supplement on Gas-Engines. Ninth edition. 143 illustra- 
tions. i2mo, cloth $2.00 

GORDON, J. E. H. Four Lectures on Static Induction. 
i2mo, cloth $0.80 

School Electricity. i2mo, cloth I2.00 

GRIMSHAW. ROBERT, M.E. The Steam Boiler 

Catechism. A Practical Book for Steam Enpneers, Firemen, and 
Owners and Makers of Boilers of any kind. Illustrited. Thick 
i8mo, cloth $2.00 

GRUNER, M. L. The Manufacture of Steel. Translated 
from the French, by Lenox Smith; with an appendix on the Bessemer 
process in the United States, by the translator. Illustrated. 8vo, 
cloth $3-50 



D. VAN NOSTRAND COMPANY'S 



HALF-HOURS WITH MODERN SCIENTISTS. 

Lectures and Essays, by Profs. Huxley, Barker, Stirling, Cope, 
Tyndall, Wallace, Roscoe, Huggins, Lockyer, Young, Mayer, and 
Reed. Being the University Series bound up. With a general in- 
troduction b^- Noah Porter, President of Yale College. 2 vols., 
i2mo, cloth, illustrated $2.50 

HAMILTON, W. G. Useful Information for Railway 

Men. Sixth edition, revised and enlarged. 562 pages, pocket form. 
Morocco, gilt $2.00 

HARRISON, W. B, The Mechanic's Tool Book. With 
Practical Rules and Suggestions for use of Machinists, Iron- Workers, 
and others. I llustratea with 44 engravings. i2mo, cloth. . %\.y> 

HASKINS. C. H. The Galvanometer and its Uses. A 

Manual for Electricians and Students. Second edition. i2mo, 
morocco $1.50 

HEAP, Major D. P., U.S.A. Electrical Appliances of 

the Present Day. Report of the Paris Electrical Exposition of 1881. 
250 illustrations. 8vo, cloth $2.00 

HERRMANN, Gustav. The Graphical Statics of Mech- 
anism. A Guide for the Use of Machinists, Architects, and 
Engineers; and also a Text-book for Technical Schools. Trans- 
lated and annotated by A. P. Smith, M.E. i2mo, cloth, 7 folding 
plates $2.00 

HEWSON, WM. Principles and Practice of embanking 

Lands from River Floods, as applied to the Levees of the Missis- 
sippi. Svo, cloth $2.00 

HENRICI, OLANE. Skeleton Structures, Applied to 
the Building of Steel and Iron Bridges. Illustrated . . . $1.50 

HOLLEY, ALEXANDER L. Railway Practice. Ameri- 
can and European Railway Practice in the Economical Generation of 
Steam, including the Materials and Construction of Coal-burning 
Boilers, Combustion, the Variable Blast, Vaporization, Circulation, 
Superheating, supplying and heating Feed Water, etc., and the Adap 
tation of Wood and Coke-burning Engines to Coal-burning; and in 
Permanent Way, including Road-bed, Sleepers, Rails, Joint Fasten- 
ings, Street Railways, etc. With 77 lithographed plates. Folio, 
cloth $12.00 

HOWARD, C. R. Earthwork Mensuration on the Basis 

of the Prismoidal Formulae. Containing Simple and Labor-saving 
Method of obtaining Prismoidal Contents directly from End Areas. 
Illustrated by Examples, and accompanied by Plain Rules for Prac- 
tical Uses. Illustrated. Svo, cloth $1.50 

ISHERWOOD, B. F. Engineering Precedents for Steam 

Machinery. Arranged in the most practical and useful manner for 
Engineers. With illustrations. 2 vols, in i. Svo, cloth . . $2.50 



SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. 



JANNETTAZ, EDWARD. A Guide to the Determina- 
tion of Rocks: being an Introduction to Lithology. Translated 
from the French by G. W. Plympton, Professor of Physical Science 
at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. i2mo, cloth $1.50 

JONES, H. CHAPMAN. Text-Book of Experimental 

Organic Chemistry for Students. i8mo, cloth $1.00 

JOYNSON, F, H. The Metals used in Construction: 

Iron, Steel, Bessemer Metal, etc. Illustrated. i2mo, cloth . .75 

Designing and Construction of Machine Gearing. 

Illustrated. 8vo, cloth $2.00 

KANSAS CITY BRIDGE, THE. With an Account of the 
Regimen of the Missouri, JK.iver, and a Description of the Methods 
used for Founding in that River. B^ O. Chanute, Chief Engineer, 
and George Morrison, Assistant Engineer. Illustrated with 5 litho- 
graphic views and 12 plates of plans. 4to, cloth $6.00 

KAPP, GISBERT, C.E. Electric Transmission of 

Energy, and its Transformation, Subdivision, and Distribution. A 
practical handbook. i2mo, cloth $3.00 

KING, W. H. Lessons and Practical Notes on Steam. 

The Steam-Engine, Propellers, etc., for Young Marine Engineers, 
Students, and others. Revised by Chief Engineer J. W. King, United 
States Navy. Nineteenth edition, enlarged. 8vo, cloth . . $2.00 

KIRKWOOD, JAS. P. Report on the Filtration of 

River Waters for the supply of Cities, as practised in Europe, made 
to the Board of Water Commissioners of the city of St. Louis. 
Illustrated by 30 double-plate engravings. 4to, cloth . . . $15.00 

LARRABEE, C. S. Cipher and Secret Letter and Tele- 
graphic Code, with Hogg's Improvements. The most perfect Secret 
Code ever invented or discovered. Impossible to read without the 
key. i8mo, cloth 60 

LARDEN, W., M.A. A School Course on Heat. 121110. 
half leather $2.00 

LEITZE, ERNST. Modern Heliogrraphic Prices es. 
A Manual of Instruction in the Art of Reproducing? Drawings. 
Engravinijs, etc., by the action of Light. With 32 wood cuts and 
ten specimens of Ht-liograms. 8vo, cloth Sj 00 

LOCKWOOD, THOS. D. Electricity, Magnetism, and 

Electro-Telegraphy. A Practical Guide for Students, Operators, and 
Inspectors. 8vo, cloth ^2.50 

LORING, A. E. A Handbook on the Electro -Magnetic 

Telegraph. Paper boards 50 

Cloth 75 

Morocco $1.00 



D, VAN NOSTRAND COMPANY*S 



MAIER, JULIUS, Ph.D. Arc and Glow Lamps. A 

Practical Handbook on Electric Lighting. Illustrated. i2mo, 
cloth I3.00 

MACGREGOR, WM. Gas-Engines: their Theory and 

Management Folding plates, X2mo, cloth $3.00 

MACCORD, Prof. C. W. A Practical Treatise on the 

Slide-Valve by Eccentrics, examining by methods the action of the 
Eccentric upon the Slide-Valve, and- explaining the practical pro- 
cesses of laying out the movements, adapting the Valve for its 
various duties in the Steam-Engine. Second edition. Illustrated. 
4to, cloth $2.50 

MCCULLOCH, Prof. R. S. Elementary Treatise on 

the Mechanical Theory of Heat, and its application to Air and 
Steam Engines. 8vo, cloth $3.50 

MERRILL, Col. WM. E., U.S.A. Iron Truss Bridges 

for Railroads. The method of calculating strains in Trusses, with a 
careful comparison of the most prominent Trusses, in reference to 
economy in combination, etc. Illustrated. 4to, cloth. 4th ed., $5.00 

MICHIE, Prof. P. S. Elements of Wave Motion relat- 
ing to Sound and Light. Second edition. Textbook for the United 
States Military Academy. 8vo, cloth, illustrated $5.00 

MINIFIE, WM. Mechanical Drawing. A Textbook of 
Geometrical Drawing for the use of Mechanics and Schools, in 
which the Definitions and Rules of Geometry are familiarly explained; 
the Practical Problems are arranged from the most simple to the 
more complex, and in their description technicalities are avoided as 
much as possible. With illustrations for Drawing Plans, Sections, 
and Elevations of Railways and Machinery; an Introduction to 
Is6metrical Drawing, and an Essay on Lmear Perspective and 
Shadows. Illustrated with over 200 diagrams engraved on steel. 
Ninth thousand. With an appendix on the Theory and Application 
of Colors. 8vo, cloth $4.00 

Geometrical Drawing. Abridged from the octavo edition, 

for the use of schools. Illustrated with 48 steel plates. Eighth 
edition. i2mo, cloth ?2.oo 

MODERN METEOROLOGY. A Series of Six Lectures, 
delivered under the auspices of the Meteorological Society in 1878. 
Illustrated. i2mo, cloth $1.50 

MORRIS,- E. Easy Rules for the Measurement of 

Earthworks by means of the Prismoidal Formula. 8vo, cloth, 
illustrated $1.50 

MOTT, H. A., Jun. A Practical Treatise on Chemistry 

(Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis), Stoichiometry, Blow-pipe 
Analysis, Mineralogy, Assaying, Pharmaceutical Preparations, Human 
Secretions, Specific Gravities, Weights and Measures, etc. New 
edition, 1883. 650 pages. 8vo, cloth $4.00 



SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS, 



MULLIN, JOSEPH P., M.E. Modern Moulding and 

Pattern- Making. A Practical Treatise upon Pattem-Shop and 
Foundry Work : embracing the Moulding of Pulleys, Spur (iears, 
Worm Gears, Balancc-Wheels, Stationary Engine and Locomotive 
Cylinders, Globe Valves, Tool Work, Mining Machinery, Screw Pro- 
pellers, Pattern-Shop Machinery, and the latest improvements in 
English and American Cupolas ; together with a large collection of 
original and carefully selected Rules and Tables, for e very-day use 
in the Drawing-Office, Pattern-Shop, and Foundry. i2mo, cloth, 
illustrated §2.50 

MUNRO, JOHN,. C.E., and JAMIESON, ANDREW, 

C.E. A Poeketbook of Electrical Rules and Tables, for the use of 
Electricians and Engineers. Fifth edition, revised and enlarged. 
With numerous diagrams. Pocket size. Leather .... $2.50 

NAQUET, A. Legal Chemistry. A GuiiU to the I)ct€ ,:i:ii 
of Poisons, Falsification of Writings, Adulteration of Alimentary and 
Pharmaceutical Substances, Analysis of Ashes, and examination of 
Hair, Coins, Arms, and Stains, as applied to Chemical Jurisprudence, 
for the use of Chemists, Physicians, Lawyers, Pharmacists, and 
Experts. Translated, with adaitions, including a list of books and 
memoirs on Toxicology, etc., from the French, by J. P. Battershall, 
Ph.D., with a preface by C. F. Chandler, Ph.D., M.D., LL.D. i2mo, 
cloth :^2.oo 

NOBLE, W. H. Useful Tables. Pocket form, cloth, .50 

NIPHER, FRANCIS E., A.M. Theory of Magnetic 

Measurements, with an appendix on the Method of Least Squares. 
i2mo, cloth 51.00 

NUGENT, E. Treatise on Optics; or, Light and Sight, 

theoretically and practically treated, with the application to Fine Art 
and Industrial Pursuits. With 103 illustratibns. i2mo, cloth, $1.50 

PEIRCE, B. System of Analytic Mechanics. 4to, 
cloth $10.00 

PLANE TABLE. The. Its Uses in Topographical Surveying. 
From the Papers of the United States Coast Survey. Illustrated. 
8vo, cloth ^. . . $2.00 

"This work gives a description of the Plane Table employed at the 
United States Coast Survey office, and the manner of using it/'' 

PLATTNER. Manual of Qualitative and Quantitative 

Analysis with the Blow-Pipe. From the last German edition, revised 
and enlarged, by Prof. Th. Richter if the R »yt\l Saxon Mltl*ng 
Academy. Translated by Prof. H. B. Cornwall, assisted by John H. 
Caswell. Illustrated with ^^ woodcuts and one lithographic plate. 
Fourth edition, revised. 560 pages. 8vo, cloth $5.00 



TKJS BOOK IS DtJB ON THE LAST DATG 
St AMFE0 BELOW 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 26 CENTS 

THIS ttOOK Otk THE OJkTK OUt TKC fENALTV 
WIUL VNCf^CAtC Tld an CdfTV OH THE FOURTW 
OAY AAIO TO »I.OO OK TH« •CVCWTM OAV 

ovmouE. 



S£/^ 26 1935 



JA W a 1 9 36 



J^" 17 [936 



Oct 



^^^^^HNr 



LtlIl»tOaM.T»1U 



