I LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.* 

!(,,,. ffijL*g. * 

# _— 

I UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. | 



ADVERTISEMENT 



The undersigned having examined the manuscript copy of Mrs. 
T. J. V. Owen's " Illinois Cook Book, 1 ' heartily recommend it 
to the patronage of all housekeepers. The original and selected 
receipts are the choicest we have ever seen, and the materials 
called for are within the reach of all, and can be had, as a general 
thing, in any of our western towns. The greatest objection to the 
cook books now published is that the receipts call for material 
rarely to be obtained outside of the larger cities. 

Mrs. B. S. Edwards, Springfield, Illinois. 

" Jacob Bunn, " ' 

" Charles Ryan, " " 

" J. C. Robinson, 

" Virgil Hickox, " " 

" K M. Broad well, " 

" John S. Bradford, " " 

" J. A. McClernand, " 

" Wm. A. Turney, " " 

" W. F. KlMBER, 

" J. A. Chesnut, 

" Ciias. D. Hodges, Carrollton, " 

" Dr. White, Bloomington, " 

" Alex. Morean, Brooklyn, New York. 

Miss Carrie Hurst, Jacksonville, Illinois. 

Mrs. P. B. Price, . " 

" Jack Wright, Petersburg, " 



(EJF'All orders addressed to Mrs. T. J. V. Owen, Springfield, 
Illinois, will receive prompt attention. Price, ^TjOper copy. 



' 



MRS. OWEN'S 



J 



llinois Look 



ook. 



) 



BY MRS. T. J. V. OWEN 



A PK ACTUAL HOUSEWIFE, 









Whatever is worth doing is worth doing well." 



SPKINGFIELD, ILL.. 

J H N H . J II N SON, I'KIN T E K 



4*i 

(Of 



PREFACE. 



In coming before the public with the " Illinois 
Cook Book" I do so because years ago I felt the 
necessity of a book of this kind ; one that would be a 
guide to young housekeepers, as well as a great con- 
venience to older ones. There are a great many 
receipts published from time to time, that in all proba- 
bility are very good; but we are often loth to try any- 
thing entirely new, through fear, not only of the 
disappointment, if it should not prove good, but the 
waste of material, which by a careful housekeeper 
should be a tirst consideration. Taking this into 
consideration, I have been careful of preserving all 
well-tried receipts, and in collecting such as, in my 
own judgment and the judgment and experience of my 
friends, would reach the necessities of all who may 
desire a good practical receipt book. In all general 
directions I have tried to be explicit, making them bo 
plain that the most inexperienced can understand. 
Let all remember that care must be taken in order to 
produce nice dishes; so that with care and a liberal 
amount of good material we may all live well at least. 



VI PREFACE. 



To the ladies of Springfield I owe much for their 
extreme kindness in supplying me with receipts from 
time to time, and for their voluntary recommendation 
of the book to the public. Allow me here to express 
my heartfelt thanks to all those who have shown me 
this kindness, and let me here say that I have known 
the truth of the adage that a a friend in need is a 
friend indeed. 

Mrs. T. J. V. OWEN. 

Sprinofield, III., 1871. 



ADVICE TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 



To young beginners in housekeeping the following 
brief hints on domestic economy in the management 
of a moderate income may perhaps prove acceptable. 

Whenever anything is bought, a bill of the goods 
and a receipt should be required, even if the money be 
paid at the time of purchase ; and to avoid mistakes 
the goods should be compared with these when brought 
home; if the money is to be paid at a future period, a 
bill should be sent with the articles and regularly filed. 

An inventory of furniture, linen and china, should 
be kept, and the things examined frequently, especially 
if there be a change of servants often; the articles 
used by servants should be entrusted to their care with 
a list, as many persons do with silver. 

In the purchase of glass and crockeryware, either 
the most customary patterns should be chosen, in order 
to secure their being easily matched, or, if a scarce 
design be adopted, an extra quantity should be bought 
to guard against the annoyance of the set being spoiled 
by breakage, which, in the course of time must be 
expected to happen. There should also be plenty of 
common dishes, that the table set may not be used for 
putting away cold meats, etc. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



The cook should be instructed to be careful of coals 
and cinders. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire 
for the back of the grate, but must remain untouched 
until it cakes. Cinders lightly wetted gives a great 
degree of heat, and are better for furnaces, ironing 
stoves and ovens. 

The most durable linens for sheeting are the Russia, 
Grerman or Irish fabrics; a good stock of which, as 
well as of table linen, should be laid in to avoid the 
necessity of frequent or irregular washing. When 
linen cannot be afforded, always buy the best muslin 
sheeting. Sheets that have a seam in the middle wear 
the best, as the seam strengthens that part ; and as the 
sheets begin to wear, sew the two outside seams and 
open the middle seam, and they will wear twice as 
long. 

A store room is essential for the custody of articles 
in constant use, as well as for others which are only 
occasionally called for. These should be at hand when 
wanted, each in separate drawers, or on shelves and 
pegs, all under the lock and key of the mistress, and 
never given out to the servants but under her inspec- 
tion. It is altogether a mistaken idea of letting serv- 
ants have full sway over what is provided for the 
household ; however honest they may be, their want of 
judgment often proves destructive ; and every woman 
who considers her own and her husband's interest, will 
see that care is taken of what he works hard to pro- 
vide. Pickles and preserves, prepared and purchased 
sauces, and all sorts of groceries, should be placed in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 9 

the store room ; spices pounded, bottled and corked 
tight; sugar in readiness for use; lemon and orange 
peel put in bags and stored away ; thyme, parsley and 
all sorts of sweet herbs should be dried, rubbed through 
a sieve and bottled tight; the small bits of tongues 
saved and dried for grating into omelets; and care 
should be taken that nothing be wasted that can be 
turned to good account. 

Bread is so heavy an article of expense that all 
waste should be guarded against. Be careful to cut 
no more than will be wanted at a time ; it is better to 
replenish the plate than to have a box full of dry 
bread going to waste; bread keeps better in earthen 
than in wooden ware. Make dry or dip toast of the 
dry bread, or use the receipt in this book for frying 
bread, which is delightful. 

Sugar being an article of considerable expense in 
all families, the purchase demands particular attention. 
The cheap sugar does not go so far as that more 
refined, and there is a difference even in the degree of 
sweetness. The close heavy, shining white sugar 
should be chosen. The best sort of brown has a bright 
crystalline appearance, as if mixed with salt; and, if 
feeling coarse when rubbed between the lingers, is 
better than when more powdery. Loaf should be cut 
in pieces when first purchased, and kept out of the air 
two or three weeks ; for if it dries quickly it will crack, 
and when wet will break. Put it on a shelf with a 
space between each piece, and let it gradually dry, and 
it will save a full third in the consumption. 
—2 



10 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of 
soap. It should be melted and put in a large jug and 
corked tight for use. If you soak your clothes over 
night use a little, and also in boiling. 

The best starch will keep good in a dry place for 
years. Everything should be kept in the place best 
suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided. 

Great care should be taken of jelly bags, which, if 
not properly washed and scalded, will give an unpleas- 
ant flavor when next used. 

There are comparatively few among the middle 
classes of society who can afford to keep professional 
cooks, their wages being too high, and their methods 
too extravagant. In such cases a plain cook is alone 
attainable, who knows little beyond the commonest 
operations of the kitchen. The mistress, therefore, 
ought to make herself so far acquainted with cookery 
as to be competent to give proper directions for pre- 
paring a meal and having it properly served up. 

Perhaps there are few points on which the responsi- 
bility of a man is more immediately felt than the style 
of dinner to which he may accidentally bring home a 
visitor. If the dishes are well served, with the proper 
accompaniments, the table linen clean, and all that is 
necessary be at hand, the comfort of both husband 
and friend will be greatly increased by the usual 
domestic arrangements not having been interfered 
with. 

Hence, the direction of a table is no inconsider- 
able branch of a lady's duty, as it involves judgment 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 11 

in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the 
comfort of her husband as well as of those who partake 
of their hospitality. Inattention to it is always inex- 
cusable, and should be avoided for the lady's own sake, 
as it occasions a disagreeable degree of bustle, and 
evident annoyance to herself, which is never observable 
in a well regulated establishment. 

The mode of setting out a table differs according to 
taste. It is not the multiplicity of dishes, but the 
choice, the dressing, and the neat looks of the whole, 
which gives an air of refinement to a table. There 
should always be more than the necessary quantity of 
plate or plated ware and glass, to afford a certain 
appearance of elegance; and these, with a clean cloth 
and neatly dressed attendants, will show that the 
habits of the family are those of gentility. Castors 
should be looked to and carefully wiped; cruets tilled 
always before dinner time; and much trouble and 
irregularity are saved, when there is company, if 
servants are trained to prepare the table and side- 
board in a similar manner every day. Too many or 
too few dishes are extremes not uncommon: the former 
encumbering the dinner with a superfluity which par- 
takes of vulgarity, whilst the latter has the appearance 
of poverty or penuriousness. 

The mistress of a family should never forget that 
the welfare and good management of the house depends 
on the eye of the superior; and consequently that 
nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste 
may be avoided, or order maintained. If she has 



12 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

never been accustomed, while single, to think of family 
management, let her not upon that account fear that 
she cannot attain it; she may consult others who are 
more experienced, and acquaint herself with the neces- 
sary quantities, qualities, and prices of the several 
articles of expenditure in a family in proportion to the 
number it consists of. The chief duties of life are 
within the reach of humble abilities, and she whose 
aim is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit her- 
self well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the 
virtues of the female character is that well-directed 
ductility of mind which occasionally bends its atten- 
tion to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be 
often scarcely less essential than the greater. 



TO YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Be satisfied to commence on a small scale. It is 
too common for young housekeepers to want to begin 
where their mothers ended. Buy all that is necessary 
to work skillfully with ; adorn your home with all that 
will render it comfortable. Do not look at richer homes 
and covet their costly furniture. If secret dissatisfac- 
tion is ready to spring up, go a step farther and visit 
the homes of the suffering poor; behold dark cheerless 
apartments, insufficient clothing, and absence of all the 
comforts and refinements of social life, and then return 
to your own with a joyful spirit. You will then be 
prepared to meet your husband with a grateful heart, 
and be ready to appreciate the toil and self-denial which 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 13 

he has endured in the business world, to surround you 
with the delights of home, and you will co-operate 
cheerfully with him in so arranging your expenses 
that his mind will not be constantly harrassed lest his 
family expenditures may encroach upon public pay- 
ment. 

Be independent ; a young housekeeper never needed 
greater moral courage than she does now, to resist the. 
arrogance of fashion. Do not let the A's and B's 
decide what you shall have ; neither let them hold the 
strings of your purse. You know best what you can 
and ought to afford. It matters but little what people 
think, provided you are true to yourself, to right and 
duty, and keep your expenses within your means. 



HOUSE FURNISHING. 

If you are about to furnish a house do not spend all 
your money, be it much or little. Do not let the 
beauty of this thing, and the cheapness of that, tempt 
you to buy unnecessary articles. Dr. Franklin's 
maxim was a wise one — " Nothing is cheap that we do 
not want." Buy what you can get along comfortably 
with at first. It is only by experience that you can 
tell what will be the wants of your family. If you 
spend all your money, you will find that you have 
purchased many things that you do not want, and have 
no means left to get the. articles you really need. If 
you have enough, and more than enough, to get every- 
thing suitable to your situation, do not think you must 



14 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

spend it all, merely because yon happen to have it. 
Begin plainly and humbly. As riches and prosperity 
increase it is easy and pleasant to increase in comforts ; 
but it is always painful and inconvenient to decrease. 
After all, these things are viewed in their proper light 
by the truly judicious and respectable. Neatness, 
tastefulness and good sense may be shown in the 
management of a small household, and the arrange- 
ment of a little furniture, as well as upon a larger 
scale; and these qualities are always commendable. 
The consideration which many purchase, by living 
beyond their income, and of course, living upon others, 
is not worth the trouble it costs. The glare there is 
about this false parade is deceptive; it does not procure 
to any one valuable friends or extensive influence. 
The friends who flock around us in our prosperity, are 
generally the farthest from us when the clouds of 
adversity gather around us. 



ADVICE TO MOTHERS. 

I would here give a few words of advice to mothers, 
those who are training up families of daughters, and 
who wish not only to discharge well their own duties 
in the domestic circle, but to train up their daughters 
to make at a later day happy and comfortable firesides 
for their families; that they should watch well, and 
guard well, the notions which they imbibe and with 
which they grow up. There will be so many persons 
ready to All their young heads with false notions and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 15 

vain fancies; and there is so much afloat in society 
opposed to duty and common sense, that if mothers do 
not watch them well, they may contract ideas fatal to 
their future happiness and usefulness, and hold them 
till they grow into hahits of thought or feeling. A 
wise mother will have her eyes open, and be ready for 
every case. A few words of common, downright, 
respectable, practicable sense, timely uttered by her, 
may be enough to counteract an erroneous idea, whilst 
if it be left unchecked, it may take such possession of 
the mind that it cannot later be corrected. One main 
falsity abroad in this age is the notion that women, 
unless compelled to it by absolute poverty, are out of 
place when engaged in domestic affairs. Now, mothers 
should have a care lest their daughters get hold of this 
conviction as regards themselves. There is danger of 
it; the fashion of the day endangers it, and the care 
that an affectionate family take to keep a girl,- during 
the time of her education, free from other occupations 
than those of her tasks or her recreations, also endan- 
gers it. It is possible that affection may err in pushing 
this care too far; for as education means a fitting for 
life, and gs a woman's life is much connected with 
domestic and family affairs, or ought to be so, if the 
indulgent consideration of parents abstains from all 
demands upon the young pupil of the school not con- 
nected with her books or her play, will she not naturally 
infer that the matters with which she is never asked 
to concern herself, are, in fact, no concern to her, and 
that any attention she may ever bestow on them is not 



16 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

a matter of simple duty, but of grace, or concession, 
on her part? Let mothers avoid such danger. If they 
would do so, they must bring up their daughters from 
the first with the idea that in this world it is required 
to give as well as to receive, to minister as well as to 
enjoy ; that every person is bound to be useful, practi- 
cally, literally useful in their own sphere; and that a 
woman's first sphere is the house, and its concerns and 
demands. Once really imbued with this belief, and 
taught to see how much the happiness of woman her- 
self, as well as her family, depends on this part of her 
discharge of duty, and a young girl will usually be 
anxious to learn all that her mother will teach her, and 
will be proud and happy to aid in any domestic occu- 
pations assigned to her, which need never be made so 
heavy as to interfere with the peculiar duties of her 
age, or its peculiar delights. If a mother wishes to 
see her daughter become a good, happy and rational 
woman, never let her admit of contempt for domestic 
occupations, or even suffer them to be deemed second- 
ary. They may be raised in character by station, but 
they can never be secondary to a woman. 



MODERN COOKERY AND HOUSEHOLD 

MANAGEMENT. 

The average of human felicity may not be much 
higher now than it has been; the world will most 
likely deserve its title of a " vale of tears " to the end 
of time ; but one consolation, and that by no means a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 17 



small one, has become stronger and of more general 
circulation in the present day — there is the possibility 
of getting good dinners oftener. Good dinners! 
excellent dinners ! super-excellent dinners ! have been 
cooked in all ages. Thanksgiving day, Christmas and 
New Years have secured good cheer for Christendom. 
Sunday dinners retain a comfortable superiority over 
the rest of their brethren ; but their very association 
with plenty of good things suggests the " spare fast " 
of intermediate seasons, when a household was on 
salted meat for months ; the frugal housewife being 
careful to use iirst the portions which were a "little 
touched " and going on with the remainder, as it stood 
in the most urgent need of being cooked. Certainly 
all that has been changed for the better. Set dinner 
parties are less thought of than the comfort of the 
family. The idea has been set forth and cherished 
that the husband and children are entitled to as much 
consideration as occasional guests ; and that the table 
ought to be set out as carefully and neatly every day 
as on special occasions. There is a self-respect in such 
a fact that goes deeper than the clean table-cloths and 
dinner napkins. One of the latest attainments of 
civilization is comfort. People are beginning to make 
themselves comfortable with such things as they .have. 
The one point insisted upon in all works on household 
management ought not to be a love of show or extrav- 
agant expenditure; but the necessity of having every- 
thing that depends on personal thought or care done 
as well as possible. 

—3 



18 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

The table linen must not of necessity be fine, but to 
be clean and well spread is indispensable. The dinner 
may be of scraps, but those scraps may be made 
savory; and certainly the receipts and directions for 
turning stale crusts into delicate puddings, morsels of 
cold, dry meat into delicious entrees, leave cooks and 
wives without excuse for "banyan days" or hungry 
dinners. Cookery is the art of turning every morsel 
to the best use; it is the exercise of skill, thought, 
ingenuity, to make every morsel of food yield the 
utmost nourishment and pleasure of which it is capa- 
ble. A woman who is not essentially kind-hearted 
cannot be a comfortable housekeeper. A woman who 
has not judgment, firmness, forethought, and general 
good sense, cannot manage her house prudently or 
comfortably, no matter what amount of money she 
may have at her command. A woman who has not 
an eye for detecting and remedying disorder and 
carelessness, cannot keep her house fresh and pleasant, 
no matter how much money she may spend on furni- 
ture and upholstelry. It is not money but management 
that is the great requisite in procuring comfort in 
household arrangements. But the woman with limited 
means may make her things as perfect after their kind 
as the woman with ample means, only she will be 
obliged to put more of herself into the management ; 
and that element of personality has a charm which no 
appointments made through the best staff of servants 
can possess. The luxury of completeness must always 
depend on the individual care and skill of the mistress. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 19 

That a thing should be perfect after its kind is all that 
can be required. We are all so much creatures of 
imagination, that we think more of the signified than 
of the actual fact. When a man sees his table nicely 
set out, he believes in the goodness of his dinner in a 
way that it would be impossible with the self-same 
dinner on a soiled table cloth. 



FOUR GOOD POINTS 

Essentially necessary for the management of house- 
hold concerns. These are — 

1 st. Punctu ality . 

2d. Accuracy. 

3d. Steadiness. 

4th. Dispatch. 
Without the first, time is wasted. Without the second, 
mistakes, fatal to our own interest and that of others, 
may be committed. Without the third, nothing can 
be well done. Without the fourth, opportunities of 
good are lost which it is impossible to recall. 



FOUR IMPORTANT RULES. 

1st. A suitable place for everything, and everything 
in its place. 

2d. A proper time for everything, and everything 
done in its time. 

3d. A distinct name for everything, and everything 
called by its name. 

4th. A certain use for everything, and everything 
put to its use. 



20 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



REMARKS. 

It may not be considered out of place to make a few 
remarks on the art of, as also on the principles of 
cookery. For nearly all will acknowledge cooking not 
only to be an art, but a science as well. To know how 
to cook economically is an art. Money making is an 
art. Now is there not more money made and lost in 
the kitchen than any where else? Does not many a 
hard-working man have his substance wasted in the 
kitchen? Does not many a shiftless man have his 
substance saved in the kitchen? A careless cook can 
waste as much as a man can earn, which might as 
well be saved. It is not what we earn, as much as 
what we save, that makes us well off. A long and 
happy life is the reward of obedience to natural laws ; 
and to be independent of want, is not to want what 
we do not need. Prodigality and idleness constitute a 
crime against humanity. But frugality and industry 
combined with moral virtue and intelligence, will 
insure individual happiness and national prosperity. 
Economy is an instinct of nature, and enforced by 
Bible precept : " Gather up the fragments that nothing 
may be lost." Saving is a more difficult art than 
earning. Some put dimes into pies and puddings, 
where others only put in cents; the cent dishes are 
generally the most healthy. Almost any woman can 
cook well, if she have plenty with which to do it; but 
the real science of cooking is to be able to cook a good 
meal or dish with but little out of which to make it. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 21 

This is what the few receipts I have given will assist 
you in doing. 

As to the principles of cooking, remember that 
water cannot be made more than boiling hot — no 
matter how much you hasten the fire, you cannot 
hasten the cooking of meat, potatoes, &c, one moment. 
When meat is to be boiled for eating, put it into boiling 
water at the beginning, by which its juices are pre- 
served. But if you wish to extract these juices for 
soup or broth, put the meat into cold water, and let it 
simmer slowly. The same principle holds good in 
baking also. Make the oven the right heat and give 
it time to bake through, is the true plan; if you 
attempt to hurry it, you only burn instead of cooking 
it done. 

There is one other process to which I must yet 
allude — the process of 

SPOILING. 

Many cooks know how to produce a good dish, but 
too many of them know how to spoil. They leave fifty 
things to be done just at the critical moment, when the 
chief dish should be watched with an eye of keenness, 
and attended by a hand thoroughly expert. Therefore 
too much care cannot be given to any dish we may 
prepare, remembering that it is but half done until it 
is taken from the stove or oven well cooked. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



Fresh meat of any kind is better for soups, for the 
reason that meats or fowls that have once been cooked 
have lost much of their sweetness. 

Soups should never be allowed to boil too hard, as 
it has a great tendency to make the meat very tough. 
Many persons hold to the opinion that meat should 
always be boiled the day before it is wanted, so that 
the liquor may be set aside to cool, and let the grease 
rise to the top and be skimmed off. But very fine 
soup can be made the day it is to be used. A beef 
shank, or a knuckle of veal either, make splendid soup. 
Proper care should always be taken to have your soups 
well seasoned and flavored, as all depends upon this. 
One receipt for seasoning and flavoring soups will not 
suit «f or all, as there is such a diversity of tastes; but 
for those who like herbs, it is well to get such as they 
like ; for instance, thyme, summer savory, sweet mar- 
jorem, sweet basil, sage, or such as suit their tastes; 
(they can be bought in ten cent packages at any drug 
store;) rub them well together, and then rub them 
through a sieve, and bottle them ready for use at any 



24 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

time. I have found this a very good plan. You can 
keep yourself supplied at a trifling cost, and always 
be ready to make a palatable soup. 

Beef Soup. 

Take the shin bone of the beef, wash it, and put it 
in a pot of cold water; put very little salt in, and let 
it boil; skim well. Have ready such vegetables as 
will suit the taste, such as carrots, onions, turnips, 
cabbage, potatoes, a little celery root; of course it 
takes but little of each. If the vegetables are not 
intended to be left in the soup, the meat should be 
taken out and the soup strained. If dumplings are 
liked, a little milk and flour, well beaten up, and a 
spoonful of butter, made stiifer than for batter-cakes. 
Drop these dumplings in the boiling soup, let them boil 
from Ave to ten minutes ; flaA^or to suit the taste. 



3Iutton Soup. 

A piece of forequarter of mutton is the best for a 
soup piece; throw a little salt into the water, just 
enough to raise the scum; let it simmer slowly; then 
prepare such vegetables as suit the taste ; turnips, car- 
rots, a little cabbage and onion, are very nice; a grated 
carrot or very little tomatoes give the soup a rich -taste 
and color; this soup may be thickened with jtearl 
barley or rice. Summer savory or thyme flavor any 
soup nicely. 

Portable Soup. 

Boil down any kind of meat to a jelly, season it 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 25 



highly with salt, pepper and spices or herbs; let it set 
away till partly cold, then pom* it into a clean, new tin 
or earthen vessel, and set it away to congeal ; it can 
be used as you want to make soup by cutting a portion 
of the jelly and adding boiling water. Vegetables can 
be added and as much more seasoning as is required 
U » make it palatable. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a nicely skinned and cleaned calf's head, soak- 
it in a little salt and water over night, rinse it before 
putting it on the tire ; have a large dinner pot of cold 
water with a little salt, put in the head and let it boil 
till tender; before putting the head in the pot remove 
the brain, which should be thrown into a little salt and 
water to whiten them; after the soup has been well 
boiled and skimmed, add pepper, salt, a little mace and 
cloves, and sweet herbs, tied up in a thin piece of 
muslin. If you wish a dark soup brown the flour you 
use to thicken the soup with. Before taking it up for 
the table add the juice of two lemons, the yolks of 
eight eggs boiled hard and chopped. Take up the 
head, cut out the tongue, which must be skinned and 
dressed with egg and butter sauce, and served on a 
dish with a garnish of fresh parsley. Chop some of 
the meat from the head and season, mixing a little 
milk and flour and raw egg. Mix well, roll into balls 
and fry in hot lard, and drop with the brains into the 
soup. 

—4 



26 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Veal Soup. 

Put a knuckle of veal into a pot of salted water with 
about a pound of ham. When the meat is cooked 
very tender take it out, and have a small head of chop- 
ped celery, one onion, one turnip, a carrot sliced very 
line, four chopped tomatoes, a small piece of red 
pepper pod, black pepper and salt to suit your taste. 
Thicken with rice, vermicelli, jot a thickening made of 
flour and butter. Noodles are very nice in this soup, 
if the vegetables are removed from the soup before the 
noodles are dropped in. Twenty minutes are sufficient 
to let them boil. 



Giblet Soup. 

A very nice soup is made from the neck, feet and 
giblets of fowls, with a little veal or nice beef bone 
added ; put these all into a pot of cold water and boil 
gently. The giblets can be removed and chopped fine 
and put back into the soup ; season like any other soup. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



Chicken Soup. 

Have a fine large chicken, it can be put into the 
water whole, and then dressed for dinner, or it can be 
cut as for frying; in either case the chicken can be 
served on the table. Put in very little salt at first; 
remove all scum before putting in anything to flavor 
the soup; have a cup of rice well washed and soaked, 
and any sweet herbs, a small onion, and one or two 
potatoes cut fine. Chicken soup is much better if a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 27 

little parsley is chopped and added ; season with pepper 
and salt. Noodles may be substituted in place of the 
rice, or dumplings made of a little milk, flour and 
butter, and one egg', beat all well together, and make 
thicker than batter; drop in by the spoonful. Pearl 
barley is very nice in chicken soup, but should be well 
washed and put into the soup when it is first put on. 

Gumbo Soup. 

This is a Southern soup, and can be made in differ- 
ent ways. If made as it should be, it is one of the 
tinest soups that can be made. If it is made of okra 
the chickens should be young and fried a delicate 
brown, with a few slices of nice bacon; when fried 
put them in a pot with boiling water. One must be 
governed by the quantity of soup that will be needed. 
Let the soup simmer slowly, skim well, and add pepper, 
salt, sweet herbs and rice a half teacupful; if the 
okra is green about half at eacupful of that. If this 
is made in the winter it will take a little more of the 
dried ; it is nice with a few oysters added just before 
taking the soup from the tire. The best gumbo is 
made of young chickens, cut up as for frying, and put 
in a pot of cold water, and let them come to a boil; 
when boiled till very tender add salt and pepper to the 
taste. The gumbo is made of dried and powdered 
sassafras leaves, which should be gathered in the fall 
before the frost. One tablespoonful of the powder 
with the same quantity of flour, well rubbed together 
and dropped in the soup just before it is taken up. A 



28 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



nice pot of well cooked mush should be made to eat 
with this soup, serving a tablespoonful in each sou]) 
plate. 



Noodles for Soup. 

If you wish noodles for an ordinary pot of soup one 
egg is sufficient ; have your flour sifted, make a hole 
in the centre, add one teaspoonful of salt, break in one 
egg, and with one hand stir them gently till the egg is 
well broken and mixed in a smooth dough ; then work 
it quite stiff and roll out as thin as a wafer, keeping 
the board well floured ; after it is rolled rub flour over 
the top and let it remain till it begins to dry, then roll 
it up tight and with a sharp knife cut (beginning at 
the end) into small shreds, and open them out as soon 
as you cut them, sprinkling flour over them. 

Oyster Soup. 

In making oyster soup great care should be taken 
not to have it made too long before it is used, as the 
oysters become hard and tough, and have ail insipid 
taste. The water should be boiling; have a clean 
bright vessel; put in the water and a pint of new 
milk or good sweet milk ; about one pint of milk to a 
gallon of boiling water ; let it boil, then add the liquor 
from the oysters, butter, pepper and salt ; have a dozen 
nice butter crackers rolled tine; if you can get it add 
one pint of good sweet cream, then the crackers, and 
last the oysters ; as soon as they are heated through 
the soup is ready for use. In making oyster soup for 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 29 

company it should not be made in large quantities ; if 
convenient it should not be made in larger quantities 
than one gallon, as it becomes tasteless and the oysters 
are hard and unfit to eat. 



Veal Broth. 

Stew a knuckle of veal of four or five pounds in 
three quarts of water, with two blades of mace, an 
onion, a head of celery, and a little parsley, pepper and 
salt; let the whole simmer very gently until the liquor 
is reduced to two quarts; then take out the meat when 
the mucilaginous parts are done, and serve it up with 
parsley and butter. Add to the broth either two 
ounces of rice separately boiled, or of vermicelli, put 
in only long enough to be stewed tender. 

Winter Soup. 

Take carrots, turnips, and the heart of a head of 
celery, cut into dice, with a dozen button onions ; half 
boil them in salt and water, with a little sugar in it; 
then throw them into the broth; and, when tender 
serve up the soup ; or use rice, dried peas, and lentils, 
and pulp them into the soup to thicken it. 

With many of these soups, small suet dumplings, 
very lightly made, and not larger than an egg, are 
boiled either in broth or water and put into the tureen 
just before serving, and are by most persons thought 
an improvement, but are more usually put in plain 
gravy soup than any other, and should be made light 
enough to swim in it. 



30 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

FISH. 

Fish should be examined very carefully, as it is one 
of the most unhealthy things that can be eaten unless 
it is perfectly fresh. In selecting them examine the 
eyes; if they have a life-like appearance they are 
fresh; if the eyes are sunken and dark colored they 
are unfit to eat. A good way to test them is to exam- 
ine the gills. 

Crabs should be of a dark green color, and when 
fresh from the water are always lively; the same 
remark holds good with regard to lobsters. 

Never buy a clam or oyster if the shells are parted. 
If the valves are tightly closed the oyster is fresh. 

Boiled Fish. 

Scale your fish first, take out the eyes and gills, 
draw and wash it well. Flour a cloth, wrap the fish 
in it, and boil in plenty of water strongly salted. A 
common sized fish of any kind requires about half a 
teacupful of salt. Put your fish kettle over a strong 
fire, and when the water boils put the fish in it, The 
fish can be stuffed with a stuffing made like turkey 
stuffing, and seasoned very much the same; it must be 
sewed up with a strong thread; let it boil 20 to 30 
minutes. Take the fish out of the cloth carefully, 
place it on your dish and send it to the table. Have 
agg sauce served with it; garnish with parsley. 

If any of the boiled fish is left from dinner it can 
be picked in small pieces, spiced and put into vinegar; 
it makes an excellent relish for breakfast or tea. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 31 

Boiled Cod Fish. 

Soak a dried cod fish over night in cold water, scrape 
and wash it clean, then put in on to boil in as much 
cold water as will cover it. 

Let it boil one hour. Drain it on your first dish and 
serve it with mashed potatoes, drawn butter, and hard 
boiled eggs. 

Baked Fish, 

Secure any nice fresh fish, such as fresh cod, trout, 
white fish, or any of the fresh or salt water fish; scale 
them and wash them clean, and let them remain in a 
little salt and water for a short time. Have a stuffing 
made of the crumbs of nice light bread — a baker's loaf 
is preferable for its lightness — put salt, pepper, butter, 
and sweet herbs in; with a spoon, as the hand makes 
it heavy, (as it does all stuffing,) fill your fish, sew it 
up, put bits of butter over the top, pepper, salt, flour; 
put in water enough to keep it from burning, and baste 
it often. For a fish of four pounds it will take about 
one hour to bake. If fish is left in any quantity from 
a meal it makes a splendid chowder. Make egg sauce. 



Fish Sauce. 

Take large tablespooiiful of butter in as much flour, 
mix together and melt in a teacup of milk; beat the 
yolk of an egg, stir it in the butter and place it on the 
fire, stirring it all the time. Chopped parsley may be 
added. 



32 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cod Fish Cakes. 

Soak as much cod fish as will be required for a meal ; 
after it is fresh enough pick it, removing all the bones ; 
mash it with equal quantities of mashed potatoes, and 
season with salt and pepper to your taste, adding butter 
and two or three hard boiled eggs, chopped very fine, 
one raw egg helps to hold it together. Make it into 
cakes, flour and fry them in hot lard. Fry them a 
light brown. 

Spiced Fish. 

Fish of any kind, either boiled or baked, that has 
been left from a meal, is very nice spiced. Take salt, 
black pepper, a little cayenne pepper, two tablespoon- 
fuls of whole allspice, mix through the fish and cover 
with good vinegar. This can be made by soaking a 
fresh shad, or other fish, and boiling it, and when cold, 
picking and spicing it; but it is a very nice way to 
use up cold fish. 



Fried Fish* 

Clean your fish well, wipe it with a dry cloth, split 
down the back, and fry it in halves, unless the fish is 
too large, then make four pieces of it; pepper, salt and 
flour, or rub on corn meal, and have your frying-pan 
with your lard in it very hot, and fry a nice light 
brown. 

It is useless to enumerate the different kinds of fish, 
as this manner of frying holds good for all fish that is 
to be fried. It is fried as nicely by setting your 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 33 

skillet or frying-pan in the oven as it is on the top of 
the stove; many think it improves the taste. 



Broiled Fish. 

Cleanse them, of course, thoroughly, split them 
down the back, season with salt and pepper. Have 
your gridiron heated and well greased ; put your fish 
on and let it broil slowly. It should be nice brown on 
both sides ; have it well basted with butter, and lay the 
two sides together that it may assume its original 
shape. 

Cat Fish. 

This must be scalded with boiling (not hot) water, 
and the skin removed ; cut down the back and cut in 
pieces as large as the hand ; salt, pepper and flour each 
piece, and fry in hot lard to a nice brown. Some per- 
sons like it dressed with beaten egg and bread crumbs, 
or dipped in a batter and fried a nice brown. 



Fried Oysters, 

Select the largest for frying. Take them out of their 
liquor with a fork, being careful not to disfigure them, 
let them drain in a colander; when well drained put 
them in a dish, salt and pepper them well, have ready 
some nice butter crackers, rolled fine, and about one- 
third as much corn meal, mix them well together, and 
dip each oyster separately into the crackers ; by putting 
two oysters together and frying them it will be found 
quite an improvement. Fry them in equal quantities 

—5 



34 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of lard and butter. Have the lard hot and fry a nice 
light brown. Do not let them burn. 



Stewed Oysters, 

Put your oyster liquid in a stew-pan and add water 
according to the quantity to be stewed; put in salt, 
pepper, and a little butter; let this begin to boil, and 
then add a half-pint of good sweet cream, a little rolled 
cracker, if liked; then throw in your oysters, let it 
boil up once, and take it immediately to the table. 
This way is splendid if you have the cream. 



Scalloped Oysters* 

Take a nice tin or earthen baking dish and grease it 
well. Have ready good butter or pic-nic crackers well 
rolled, cover the bottom of the dish or pan first with 
the crackers, then the oysters, then lumps of butter 
over the top, then pepper and salt, next crackers and, 
so on, till all your oysters are in, putting butter, pepper 
and salt in each layer, put last a layer of crackers, 
with butter on top ; put the oyster liquor in as you are 
putting it in the pan; put in water, not too hot, suffi- 
cient to cook them, set the pan in the oven and let it 
bake; for two cans of oysters it will take about one 
hour. 



Fried Cod Fish. 

(SENATOR SAMUEL CASEY'S RECEIPT.) 

Take one pound of cod fish, four large potatoes, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful salt, and one of black pepper; 
cook fish and potatoes at the same time, (but in differ- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 35 

ent vessels,) take the bones out of the fish, peel the 
potatoes, hot right out of the water, mash them and 
the fish well together, with a tablespoonful of flour; 
have the eggs well beaten, and add them to the mix- 
ture with a piece of butter as large as a walnut ; mix 
all well together, and fry in cakes, in hot lard; send 
to the table hot. This mixture will be soft and must 
be dropped into the lard with a spoon, as it cannot be 
made out into balls. It is the nicest way I have ever 
prepared codfish for a breakfast dish. The water on 
the lish must be changed while it is boiling; once 
changing will perhaps be sufficient. 



Boiled Fish. 

( SENATOR SAMUEL CASEY'S WAY. ) 

Take cat fish, or any good kind of fish. After clean- 
ing it well, rub it with salt, and wrap it in a cloth not 
too tight; have ready a kettle with boiling water well 
salted ; drop your fish in and let it boil well, the length 
of time must be governed by the size of the fish, for a 
good-sized fish, (say three quarters of an hour,) pour 
melted butter over it. 

To 3Iake Stewed Oysters Tender. 

Turn the oysters with the liquor into a convenient 
dish. With a fork remove each oyster into another 
dish, passing it as you do so through the oyster liqnor, 
in order to wash off any bits of shell, etc. When all 
have been removed, strain the liquor through a fine 
sieve, which will retain the bits and yellow crabs. Some 



36 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

people eat these little crabs, but I reject them from the 
oyster stew, as they suggest carelessness. Put the 
strained liquor into the kettle with the quantity of water 
or milk you think proper, and set to boil. Add rolled 
cracker and salt. A little mace (only a little) is a great 
addition, as it brings out the oyster flavor; I do not 
put in pepper as some guests do not like it, and the 
c< »lor of the soup is not so good. Each person can suit 
his own taste by using either the black or cayenne. 
The clearer and whiter a soup appears, the better it 
will be relished. I omit cracker in a dinner soup; 
each guest must be supplied, however, at the table. 
Keep out the oysters until all the ingredients of the 
soup are added, and until it thoroughly boils. Now 
add the oysters. As soon as it comes to a good boil, 
the soup is ready to serve. If you have a very rich 
stew — a great many oysters and little soup — it may be 
well to put only part of the oysters in at a time, waiting 
until the first lot have had a good scald before adding 
the remainder. The idea is to give each oyster a good 
scald on the outside surface ; it cooks them sufficiently 
and avoids the toughness that comes from overcooking. 
Treated according to these directions the oysters in a 
stew will be as tender as raw ones. It is very easy to 
spoil oysters by overdoing them. 

French Stewed Oysters. 

Wash fifty large oysters in their own liquor; strain 
the liquor into a stew pan, putting the oysters into a 
pan of cold water; season the liquor with a half pint 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 37 

of sherry or madeira, the juice of two lemons, and a 
little mace. Boil this liquor, and skim and stir it well ; 
when it comes to a boil, put in the oysters well drained, 
let them get heated through, but do not boil them. 
Many people consider this the nicest way of stewing 
oysters. 

Clam, Fritters. 

Put a sufficient quantity of clams into a pot of boil- 
ing water; when the shell opens wide take out the 
clams from the shells, and put them into a stew pan. 
Strain the liquor, and pour about half of it over the 
plains, adding a little black pepper ; they will not need 
salt. Let them stew slowly for half an hour; then 
take them out. Drain off all the liquor, and mince the 
clams as line as possible, leaving out the hardest parts. 
You should have as many clams as will make a pint 
when minced. Make a batter of seven eggs beaten 
till very light, mix with these gradually a quart of 
milk and a pint of sifted flour; make it perfectly 
smooth and free from lumps ; mix gradually the minced 
clams with the batter, and stir the whole very hard. 
Have ready in a frying pan some boiling lard ; put in 
the batter with a spoon, so as to form fritters, and fry 
them a light brown. Drain them well when done, and 
serve hot. Oyster fritters are made the same way, 
only they must be minced raw and mixed with the 
batter without having been stewed. 



Potted Shad. 

Take the backbone out of the shad, cut it in small 



38 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pieces, then put one layer of shad, one small piece of 
butter, some salt, pepper, and a very small piece of 
mace, clove, and allspice whole; cover with vinegar. 
Bake in an earthen pot, well sealed, eight hours. Six 
whole cloves and the same of allspice is enough for 
three shad; seal the cover with dongh, so as to keep 
the air out. 



Oyster Omelet. 

Strain the liquor from twenty-live large oysters or 
forty small ones, chop them fine, leaving out the hard 
part. Break into a shallow pan, six, seven or eight 
eggs, according to the quantity of oysters, leaving out 
half the whites. Having beaten the eggs well, mix 
in the chopped oysters, adding a little cayenne pepper 
and nutmeg, if you like that spice. Put three ounces 
of the best butter into a frying pan, let it come to a 
boil, pour in the omelet mixture, stir it till it begins to 
harden; fry it a light brown, lifting from the edge 
several times by slipping a knife under it. Take care 
not to cook it too much, or it will be tough; serve 
immediately. This quantity will make one large, or 
two smaller omelets. 



To Pot Trout. 

Take from six to eight trout, from a quarter to half 
a pound in weight each. Gut, scale and wipe them 
dry in a clean cloth. Then dispose of them in a shallow 
dish, about two and a half inches in depth, containing 
a very small portion of water at the bottom, enough to 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 39 

supply a sufficiency of steam to pass through them. 
Add to them a supply of ground mace, ground black 
pepper, salt, and two or three bay-leaves, covering the 
dish over with a tin protection, and consign the same 
to a slow oven, to admit of the fish being steamed 
through. When the prongs of the fork will pass readily 
into them, they will be done and may be taken up. 
When cold, remove the bay-leaves, and let them be 
well covered with clarified butter. 



Lobster Rissoles. 

Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, mince it as fine 
as possible; mix it with the coral pounded smooth, and 
some yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pounded also. Season 
it with cayenne pepper, powdered mace, and a very 
little salt. Make a batter of beaten egg, milk and 
flour. To each egg allow two large tablespoonful of 
milk and a large teaspoonful of flour. Beat the 
batter well, and then mix the'lobster with it gradu- 
ally, till it is stiff enough to make into oval balls 
about the size of a large plum. Fry them in the best 
salad oil, and serve them up either warm or cold. 
Similar rissoles may be made of raw oysters minced 
fine, or of boiled clams. These should be fried in lard. 



Champlain Chowder. 

To four pounds fish, one pound fat pork to fry. Fry 
the pork gently in a bake kettle until the fat is out. 
Have ready the fish to put in when the scraps of pork 
are taken out, one quart boiling water to every four 



40 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pounds of fish. Put in with the fish at the same time, 
pepper, salt, and a few sliced onions. Let it stew over 
a quick fire twenty minutes. Take off the cover then, 
and add one gill of milk. In Hve minutes take it up, 
and add crackers and oysters just before the chowder 
is done, if you wish. 



Stewed Halibut. 

Cut the fish into pieces about four inches square, 
leaving out the bone; season it slightly with salt, and 
let it stand half an hour. Take it out of the salt, put 
it in a deep dish, and scatter over it cayenne pepper, 
ground white ginger, and grated nutmeg ; add a pint of 
vinegar, and a little butter rolled in grated bread. Put 
the dish in a slow oven, and let it cook till well done, 
basting it frequently with the liquid. When nearly 
done, add a tablespoon of capers. 

Codfish Cakes— A Yankee Dish. 

Take salt codfish that has been cooked slowly; 
simmered, not boiled, the day before. Remove the 
bones and mince it, Mix it with warm mashed pota- 
toes, mashed with butter and milk, in the proportion of 
one-third codfish, and two-thirds mashed potato ; add 
sufficient beaten egg to make the whole into a smooth 
paste. If it seems dry, add a little butter. Make into 
cakes an inch thick, and as large round as a teacup. 
Fry in salt pork, and serve the slices with the fish 
cakes. These are very nice, if well made. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 41 

A Codfish Melish. 

Sliver the codfish tine, pour on boiling water till it is 
freshened; then drain off water, add butter, pepper, 
and heat it a few minutes on the stove, but do not let 
it fry. 

Fried Perdu, 

Egg and bread crumbs, hot lard. Scale and clean 
the fish, brush it over with egg, and cover with bread 
crumbs. Have ready some boiling lard ; put the iish 
in, and fry a nice brown. Serve with melted butter or 
anchovy sauce. 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish. 

Four eggs, half a pint of melted butter; when liked, 
a very little lemon juice. Boil the eggs until quite 
hard, which will be in about twenty minutes, and put 
them into cold water for half an hour, strip off the 
shells, chop the eggs into small pieces, not, however, 
too fine. Make the melted butter very smoothly, and 
when boiling, stir in the eggs, and serve very hot. 
Lemon juice may be added at pleasure. 

Curry Fish. 

Put into the pot four onions and two apples, in thin 
slices, some thyme, or savory, with a quarter of a 
pound of fat or dripping, three tablespoonfuls of salt, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, and fry for fifteen minutes ; 
then pour in three quarts of water and one pound of 



42 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



rice; boil till tender; add one tablesoonful of curry- 
powder, mixed in a little water; cut up six pounds of 
cheap iish the size of an egg', add to the above, and 
boil for twenty or thirty minutes, according to the kind 
of lish. If salt fish is used, omit the salt. If no herbs, 
do without, but always use what you can. 



h Fish Sauce. 

Take half a pint of milk and cream together, two 
eggs well beaten, salt, a little pepper, and the juice of 
half a lemon ; put it over the lire, and stir it constantly 
until it begins to thicken. 



MARKETING. 



CARE AND USES OF MEATS. MANNER OF COOKING 
DIFFERENT PARTS OF MEATS AND FOWLS. 



Beef Steaks* 

The sirloin and porter-house steaks should always 
be broiled and broiled quickly. They should never be 
put on the gridiron till your meal is ready to serve up. 
Steaks should not be used the day they are cut; but if 
possible kept on ice a day or two, they then become 
tender; be governed of course by the weather in such 
matters. Always put your meat in a vessel of some 
kind, and set that on the ice. If the meat is put in 
contact with the ice it becomes white looking, and 
loses all its richness. 



Boasting Pieces, 

The sirloin roast is considered the best; the next 
piece forward of the sirloin is also a good roasting 
piece. The rib pieces of the forequarter are preferred 
by many; by removing the ribs and rolling the piece 
it makes a nice roast, and can be stuffed with bread 
crumbs and such seasoning as is used for any ordinary 
dressing for fowls. 



4A- ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Corned Beef Pieces, 

The rump and round and etch bone are used 
expressly lor corning. The flank and brisket are also 
good corning pieces ; very many prefer the brisket, as 
it has a portion of the fat that is very sweet in boiled 
meat. It is well for persons who can do so, to select 
such pieces as they prefer, and have a large jar or keg, 
and make their own corned beef; they will lind it 
much nicer. I have given a well tried receipt for 
corning beef, one that I have used for years, and one 
that cannot fail to please. Corned beef must be boiled 
tender; if used hot for dinner, take what is left and 
put it in some flat bottomed vessel and put a heavy 
weight over it ; put a clean board or flat cover on, then 
the weight, and set it away till perfectly cold, and 
slice thin for supper; by pressing it it becomes firm 
and is more like tongue. 



A Stuffed Flank. 

Take a large, nice, well trimmed flank, put it in salt 
and let it remain over night. Then wash it in cold 
water, and wipe it dry. Have a stuffing made as for 
turkey or goose, and spread it well over the meat, put- 
ting on occasionally nicely cut strips of salt pork; 
season this dressing highly ; roll your meat up and sew 
it very tight in a piece of strong muslin; put it in to 
boil as early as possible in the morning, and boil six 
hours. This is delightful. Put it in a vessel and press 
it, leaving the cloth on till cold; put a heavy weight 
on, let it remain till cold. Slice very thin. In winter 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 45 

when meat is firm and nice this makes a splendid 
supper dish. 

Time for Boiling Meat. 

The old rule of fifteen minutes to a pound of meat, 
is rather too little, I think; the slower it boils the ten- 
derer, the plumper, and whiter it will be. For those 
who choose their food thoroughly cooked, (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs,) twenty 
minutes or more to a pouud will not be found too much 
for gentle simmering over a good tire ; allowing more 
or less time, according to the thickness of the joint; 
always remembering the slower it boils the better. 
Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art; 
and cooks seem to suppose they. must be right if they 
put meat into a pot and set it over the tire for a certain 
time, making no allowance whether it simmers without 
a bubble, or boils at a gallop. 

FRESH KILLED MEAT 

Will take much longer time boiling than that which 
has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe, and 
longer in cold than in warm weather. If it be frozen 
it must be thawed before boiling as before roasting ; if 
it is too fresh killed it will be tough and hard. The 
size of the boiling pots should be adapted to what they 
are to contain; the larger the pot the more room it 
takes upon the fire; and a larger quantity of water 
requires a proportionate increase of fire to boil it. In 
small families I would recommend block tin sauce 
pans, &c, as the lightest and safest. If proper cave is 



46 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

taken of them, and they are well dried after they are 
cleansed, they are far the cheapest. Take care that 
the covers of yonr boiling pots tit close, not only to 
prevent mines sary evaporation of the water, but that 
the smoke may not get under the edge of the lid, and 
give the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after 
it is done enough, it will become sodden and lose its 
flavor. 

It is very important in boiling meats to keep the 
water constantly boiling, else it will cause the meat to 
soak the water up; if it is necessary to add more 
water, be sure to have it boiling, skim carefully; salt 
thrown in raises the scum ; always put your meat into 
cold water, and let it gradually heat and boil at first ; 
never let meat remain longer in the water than you can 
help, better to take it up and place it in a heater, if 
possible. The broth in which meat is boiled makes a. 
most delicious soup by adding vegetables chopped fine, 
carrots, especially, give a fine flavor to soup. Bunches 
of mixed vegetables and parsly can be procured at the 
market, generally. 

TAKE CARE OF THE LIQUOR 

In which you have boiled meat or poultry; in a few 
minu tesyou may convert it into a most palatable soup. 

IF THE LIQUOR IS TOO SALT, 

Use only one half, saving the other half for the next 
day; people's tastes vary so much in regard to the 
flavor of soups. Add sufficient boiling water to the 
portion of broth you wish made into soup, then put in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 47 

such vegetables and herbs as will suit the taste. Ver- 
micelli, macaroni, or our home-made noodles may be 
added. 

Boiled Ham. 

If the ham is large, and to be boiled, it is much 
better to soak it in clear water over night, put it on to 
boil in cold water ; when water is to be added to any- 
thing cooking, always add boiling water. Some persons 
think a boiled ham is much improved by setting it into 
the oven for a short time after you have removed the 
skin and before it has time to get cold. If you boil a 
whole ham, let it remain in the liquor in which it was 
boiled over night, it is a great improvement. 



Tongues. 

They are much better put in brine, and then smoked. 
Make an ordinary brine; use a little brown sugar and 
a small piece of saltpetre. Two weeks in the brine is 
sufficient; when taken out let them be washed off in 
clear, cold water, wiped dry, and hung up in a cool, 
dry place, for about two days ; then they may be smoked. 



Mutton Hams— To Pickle for Drying. 

First take a weak brine and put the hams into it for 
two days, then pour off and apply the following, and let 
it remain on from two to three weeks, according to size : 
For each 100 pounds take six pounds salt; saltpetre, 
one ounce; saleratus, two ounces; molasses, one pint; 
water, six gallons ; will cover these, if packed closely. 
The saleratus will keep the mutton from becoming 



48 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

ft 

hard. These, if properly selected and properly cured, 
are, according to my experience, equal to any dried 
venison I ever ate. I prefer the " corned beef brine " 
receipt, although there is but little difference between 
them. 



For Corned Beef. 

(MRS. WM. A. TURNEY.) 

Take a large dinner pot ol rain water and put in it — 

One pint salt, 

One pint molasses, 

One pint brown sugar, 

Five cents worth saltpetre. 
Boil all together, skim till clear; let it cool. If it 
will bear an egg, it is all right. This will cover about 
27 or 28 pounds of beef. Next, take — 

One tea cup brown sugar, 

One tea cup of salt, 

Five cents worth saltpetre. 
Beat them and mix them well together, and rub each 
piece of the meat well with it ; put the meat into your 
jar or keg, let it stand 24 hours ; then pour over it the 
brine, which should be made the night before. In two 
weeks it is ready for use. This makes the finest corned 
beef I have tasted. 



Sugar Cured Hams. 

( MRS. S. FERGUSON. ) 

For eighteen or twenty hams — 
Fifteen ounces saltpetre, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 49 

Four ounces saleratus, 

Four pounds brown sugar, 

Eight quarts line salt, 

Two quarts molasses. 
Mix well together in a tub, rub the mixture well on 
the face of the hams, putting it all on ; put them in a 
tight barrel. Let them remain four days. Make a 
strong brine that will bear an egg, and pour over the 
hams. Let them remain in the brine from live to six 
weeks, or till well salted ; changing them once in that 
time, putting those that are in the bottom of the barrel 
on the top, so that they will not have the juice pressed 
out of them. When they are sufficiently salted, take 
them out of the brine, wash them well in warm (not 
hot) water, wipe them quite dry and hang them up a 
day or two, before being smoked. When smoked, put 
black pepper on the joints, wrap them up in strong 
brown paper. You can wash them with common 
white-wash, colored with any of the common yellow 
colors, or pack them in a large dry box and cover each 
ham thoroughly with good dry ashes. 



Beef and Mntton 

A little under-done, (especially very large joints,) 
which will make the better hash or broil, is not a great 
fault, by some it is preferred ; but lamb, pork and veal, 
are uneatable if not thoroughly boiled, but do not 
overdo them. A trivet, or fish drainer, put in the 
bottom of the boiling pot, raising the contents about an 
inch and a half from the bottom, will prevent that side 
—7 



50 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of the meat which comes next the bottom from being 
done too much, and the lower part ot the meat will be 
as delicately done as the other part; and this will 
enable you to take out the contents without sticking a 
fork into your meat, which is no benefit to it. 

Ribs of Beef 

The three first ribs make an excellent roasting piece, 
many prefer it to the sirloin for roasting; if the ribs are 
taken out and it is rolled and skewered, it will be 
round, and can be tilled with a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, seasoned and flavored to suit the different 
tastes. As the meat is more in a solid mass, it will 
require more time to roast it. A piece of ten or twelve 
pounds weight will not be well roasted in less than four 
or five hours. Salt, pepper and flour it well before 
putting in to roast. 

Mutton Chops. 

Mutton chops are better broiled than cooked in any 
other way, and should be broiled over a rather alow 
tire, as the fat that cooks from them usually increases 
the tire. 



Leg of Mutton. 

The leg of mutton is very nice boiled or roasted 
plainly, or can be stuffed and roasted. The loin is a 
roasting piece. The leg is often cured as you would 
cure beef to dry ; it has a much finer grain than the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 51 

beef, and is more like venison. I have cured mutton 
legs in the corned beef receipt, and found them so like 
venison that you could scarcely tell the difference ; they 
chip nicely, the meat is close and firm, and looks 
beautiful on table. 

JPork Steaks, 
The best steaks are off the shoulder; the first ham 
steaks are considered too dry for steaks. 



Spare JRibs. 

Spare ribs are nice if broiled well, broiled without 
burning. They are also nice cut up and stewed, or 
roasted; a pan can be well filled with the spare ribs as 
they are cut from the hog — pepper and salt, and a 
very little well powdered sage, sprinkled over each 
layer, and then nicely roasted, occasionally changing 
the pieces so that each piece can be a little browned. 
Many persons like this dish cold. 



Sausage Meat. 

Take about two-thirds of nice lean pork, and one- 
third of fat, chop them nicely, and season with salt, 
black pepper, sage, and a little summer savory. The 
best way is to make out a little cake and fry it, adding 
such seasoning as is needed to give it the right taste. 
There are nice little sausage grinders now in use, 
which are a great convenience, and not costing over 
three or four dollars; with a little trouble and care 
every family can grind their own sausage and season 
it to the taste. 



52 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Tender-Loin, 

During the slaughtering season families can live 
very much cheaper. The tender loin is a very nice 
breakfast dish, nicely fried, with a well made gravy. 
The backbone, or chine, salted down for a few days, 
and then washed and boiled till tender, makes a good 
dinner. Some persons boil cabbage, turnips and pota- 
toes with it; it is very relishable, and makes a good 
wash-day dinner, giving you a sufficient variety, and 
very little labor in cleaning after it. 



i*ig$ Feet. 

They should be thoroughly cleaned, washed, and 
thrown into salt water over night, then boiled till they 
are almost to pieces ; a little red pepper pod is nice 
thrown in, and a few whole cloves and allspice. 
When they are done, have a jar sufficiently large to 
hold them ; put the feet one by one into the jar, (let 
them well drain first,) then have good, clear vinegar, 
and cover the feet with it ; do not disturb them for a 
day or two, and then they are fit to eat. A nice dish 
for breakfast is made by cutting the feet into halves, 
dipping them into a nice batter, and frying till they are 
a nice brown ; the grease for frying anything should 
always be hot. 

Shoulder and Ham. 

These are salted and smoked. Some rub them well 
with dry salt and let them remain till they are suf- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 53 

ficently salted, and have them smoked ; others prefer a 
brine to the dry salt. The weather has considerable 
to do with the length of time they remain in either 
salt or brine, if they freeze it takes longer for them to 
take the salt. 



Curing, Smoking and Keeping Ham. 

To a cask of hams, say from 25 to 30, after having 
packed them closely and sprinkled them slightly with 
salt, let them lie thus for three days; then make a 
brine sufficient to cover them, by putting salt into 
clear water, making it strong enough to bear up a 
sound egg or potato ; then add one-half pound of salt- 
petre ^and a gallon of good molasses ; let them lie in 
brine for six weeks — they are then exactly right. 
Take them out and let them drain; while damp, rub 
the flesh side and the end of the leg with finely pul- 
verized black pepper, with a little cayenne pepper; let 
it be as line as dust, and rub every part of the flesh 
side, then hang them up for a few days before smok- 
ing. They can then be kept well, after being well 
wrapped in strong brown paper and whitewashed, or 
they can be wrapped and packed in dry ashes ; a little 
well pulverized charcoal mixed through the ashes is a 
great improvement. My own experience has taught 
me that it is very much cheaper, and certainly much 
safer, to have your hams and all meat to smoke marked 
so that you will always get your own meat, and then 
get your butcher to smoke them for you. 



54 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Packing Beef. 

It is a very important tiling to know how to keep a 
large quantity of beef. If you have a hind quarter of 
beef to put away, have it cut into steaks and roasts ; 
take such pieces as you wish for dried beef and corned 
beef, put them into your brine. Have a nice, clean 
box, sufficient to hold your steaks and roasts, put this 
box into a larger box and pack that with ice or snow, 
first put a quantity in the bottom of the large box, 
pack the sides tight, cover it closely ; let no ice or snow 
touch your meat, as it draws the blood out and renders 
the meat tasteless ; it should be kept in some dry, cool 
place, smoke house, or any place where it is cold and 
dry, a cellar is too warm and would melt the ice. 



To Try Out Lard, 

It is much better in trying out lard, if you have a 
sufficient quantity to justify you doing so, to render 
out the leaf fat separately from the other fat ; cut 
the fat into small pieces, put it into a clean pot 
over a slow fire, adding at first a little water to keep it 
from burning ; let it cook till the cracklings are of a 
reddish brown ; add a little salt, then strain into tin 
cans or stone jars; try out the other fat in the same 
way. 



Mutton, 

As beef requires a large, sound fire, mutton must 
have a brisk, sharp one ; if you wish to have mutton 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 55 

tender, it should be hung as long as it will keep, and 
then good eight-tooth four years' old mutton is as good 
eating as venison. The leg, haunch and saddle will 
be the better for being hung up in a cool, airy place, 
for four or live days at least ; in temperate weather a 
week, in cold weather, ten days. A leg of eight pounds 
will take about two hours, let it be well basted. A 
chine or saddle, the two loins, of ten or eleven 
pounds, two hours and a half. A shoulder of seven 
pounds, an hour and a half; they should be well 
watched and often basted. Potatoes, peeled, are 
very nice, roasted with any of the roasting pieces. 



Shoulder of Mutton. 

May be dressed in various ways, but the most usual 
is to roast it nicely, and send it up with onion sauce. 
It is an unsightly joint, but the appearance may be 
improved by cutting off the knuckle, when it may be 
called a shield; it has more different sorts of meat in 
the various cuts than the leg. The bone may also be 
taken out, and the mutton stuffed; it is very good 
baked, and is frequently served upon a pudding. 



Leg of Mutton Boiled. 

To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim as for 
roasting; soak it for a couple of hours in cold water; 
then put only w r ater enough to cover it, and let it boil 
gently for three hours, or according to its weight. 
Some cooks boil it in a cloth; but if the water be 



56 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

afterwards wanted for soup, that should not be done ; 
some salt and an onion put in the water are far better. 
When nearly ready, take it from the tire, and, keeping 
the pot well covered, let it remain in the water for ten 
or fifteen minutes. 



Cooking a Loin of Mutton. 

From an hour and a half to an hour and three-quar- 
ters. The most elegant way of carving this is to cut 
it lengthwise, as you do a saddle. A neck about the 
same time as a loin. It must be carefully jointed, or 
it is very difficult to carve. 

The Nech and Breast 

Are, in small families, generally roasted together. 
The cook should crack the bones across the middle 
before they are put down to roast. If this is not done 
carefully, they are very troublesome to carve. A 
breast piece about an hour and a quarter to roast. 



The Haunch. 

The leg and part of the loin of mutton. Send to the 
table two sauce-boats of gravy; one of rich, drawn 
mutton gravy, seasoned high, and bruised mint to 
flavor; the other with plain gravy. Roast slowly and 
thoroughly. 

Mutton, (Venison Fashion J 

Take a neck of good four or five year old wether 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. ■ 57 

mutton, cut long in the bones ; let it hang a few days, 
it will improve it. Two days before you dress it, 
take allspice and black pepper, ground and pounded 
line, a quarter of an ounce each; rub them together, 
and then rub your mutton well with this mixture twice 
a day. When you dress your mutton to cook it, wash 
off the spice with warm water, rub salt and a little 
fresh black pepper over it, dredge on flour, and put it 
into the stove ; put hot water in the roasting pan, baste 
frequently. 

Beef a la Mode, 

In making a la mode beef the round is generally 
preferred. I can only give directions for preparing it. 
The size of the meat must be selected according to the 
number to eat it. Every family knows about the num- 
ber of pounds it will take. Select young and tender 
meat, cut holes entirely through the thick part, have 
long strips of salt fat pork, cut and rolled in a season- 
ing of thyme, sweet majorum, sweet basil, cloves, 
pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of each ; then open the 
holes already made in the beef, and draw the strips of 
fat through them. Some like onions; they can be 
used or not, as taste dictates. Put your meat in your 
pot, (or, if cooked in a stove, put it in a covered pan,) 
add sufficient water to cover it, and let it cook slowly 
three or four hours ; make a rich gravy, and just before 
taking it out of the pan or pot, add a pint of either 
claret or port wine. If boiled it can be taken out and 
set in the oven a short time; sprinkle over the top 
powdered crackers. 
—8 



58 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Beef Patties. 

This is a nice way to use cold roast beef. Chop line 
the lean, and a little of the fat; season it with pepper, 
and mace, if you like, or sweet herbs. If you have 
any gravy left, moisten the meat with it. Make a nice 
plain paste, and cut it round about the size of a plate ; 
do not roll it too thin ; cover half of each sheet of paste 
with the mash, but do not get it too near the edge ; fold 
the other half of the paste over, so as to form a half 
moon; wet your linger in cold water, and pinch 
together the two edges of the paste. Prick the patties 
with a fork, put them in a baking pan and bake a nice 
brown, or fry in hot fat, as you prefer. Serve hot. 
Cold veal or cold chicken make nice patties. 

To Sash a Calf's Head. 

Clean the head thoroughly, and boil it for a quarter 
of an hour. When cold, cut the meat into thin, broad 
slices, and put them into a pan with two quarts of 
gravy; and, after stewing three-quarters of an hour, 
add one anchovy, a little mace and cayenne, one spoon- 
ful of lemon pickle, and two of walnut catsup, some 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel, and a glass of sherry. Mix 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter with flour, which 
add live minutes before the meat is sufficiently cooked. 
Take the brains and put them into hot water, skin 
them, and pound them well. Acid to them two eggs, 
one spoonful of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and 
linely chopped parsley, thyme and sage; mix well 
together with pepper and salt. Form this mixture into 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 59 

small cakes; boil some lard, and fry them in it until 
they are a light brown color, then lay them on a sieve 
to drain. Take the hash out of the pan, and lay it 
neatly on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and lay 
upon it a few mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of 
four hard-boiled eggs, and the brain-cakes. Garnish 
with slices of lemon and pickles. 



Spoon Meats. 

Calf's feet or mutton shanks make mild nourishing 
broth, but have but little richness or flavor of meat. 
To clean them, have a kettle of boiling water on the 
fire, and throw in the feet all at once, or in succession, 
as the size of the vessel allows. Let them boil about 
three minutes, then take one out, when the hoofs and 
hairs will easily come off; loosen the hoof at the root 
and turn it back, scrape the hairs, carrying the knife 
upwards. This must be done immediately on taking 
out of the boiling water, therefore only one at a time 
must be taken out. Feet, and all gristly parts, require 
long boiling, or baking, and consume a large quantity 
of water in the process. 



Minced Beef. 

Cut into small pieces the remains of cold meat; the 
gravy reserved from it, on the first day of its being 
served, should be put into the stew-pan, with the addi- 
tion of warm water, pepper, salt, and a little butter. 
Let the whole simmer slowly for an hour. A few 
minutes before it is served, take out the meat ; add to 



60 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the gravy 6ome walnut catsup, or a little lemon or 
walnut pickle. Boil up the gravy once more, and pour 
over the meat. This is a very nice way to use up any 
kind of cold meats or fowl. A little curry powder 
may be used by those who love high seasoning. 



Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash some well cooked potatoes, add a little cream 
or sweet milk, butter, salt and black pepper. Slice 
cold beef and lay it at the bottom of a deep pie dish, 
with salt, pepper, butter, and a little beef gravy, which 
should always be saved ; cover the whole with a layer 
of the potatoes, then another quantity of the meat, and 
then potatoes, and seasoning, having potatoes reserved 
for the top; make it higher in the middle of the dish 
than at the edges ; put butter on the top and bake a 
light brown. 



Beef's Heart. 

Get a heart of a nice young ox, wash it carefully, 
and with a sharp knife remove from the inside of it all 
sinews ; lay it in salt and water, and let it remain over 
night ; put it on very early in the morning, and boil 
till quite tender; then take out, put strips of ham fat, 
as in a la mode beef, cut the holes with a long, slim 
knife, or make them with a table steel ; make a dress- 
ing with bread crumbs and a little onion, pepper, salt, 
and any herbs preferred; fill the heart, and roll it in a 
dough made as for soda biscuit; roll about an inch 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 61 

thick, and secure the edges with flour, that it will not 
come open; put in a pan, add water, and cover with 
butter, baste well while roasting. This way is very 
nice. It can be pinned in a cloth and boiled, if pre- 
ferred. Make a nice gravy. 

Beef Collops. 

Cut the inside of a sirloin, or any other convenient 
piece, into small circular shapes, flour and fry them ; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shalot ; 
make a little gravy in the pan; send to table with 
gherkin or tomato sauce. Or : Cut thin slices of beef 
from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide 
them into pieces three inches long, beat them with the 
blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops in 
butter two minutes ; then lay them into a small stew- 
pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy, add a bit of 
butter rubbed in flour. 



Beef a la Mode, 

Take a nice piece of round of beef, the size must be 
regulated to the size of the family, cut holes about an 
inch and a half apart, all through the meat ; have nice 
long narrow strips of pork fat, and draw through the 
holes, (that from the fat of ham is nicest;) salt your 
meat and let it remain an hour or two ; then put it into 
vinegar, (not too strong,) let it remain 24 hours ; then 
have in a stove pot a nice large piece of butter, let it get 
hot; put in your meat and let it brown nicely in this 
butter, turning it often, and watching it carefully that 



62 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the butter does not scorch, {attention must be paid to 
this to have it nice;) then set the pot on the back of the 
stove, and pour in the vinegar in which the meat 
had stood over night, and add pepper and spices, 
(whole) cloves and allspice; let this simmer slowly 
several hours till done tender ; strain the liquor it has 
boiled in, and make gravy of it. In cutting slices of 
the meat, cut it so you will have the bits of pork all 
through the slice of meat. This is very nice for tea 
cold. 



Beefsteak Pie, 

Take rump steaks that have been well hung, cut in 
small scallops; beat them gently with a rolling pin; 
season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, minced 
very line ; put in a layer of sliced potatoes, place the 
slices in layers with a good piece of fat and a sliced 
mutton kidney; till the dish; put some crust on the 
edge, and about an inch below it, and a cup of water 
or broth in the dish. Cover with rather a thick crust, 
and set in a moderate oven. 



Staffordshire Beefsteak. 

Beat them a little with a rolling pin, flour and season, 
then fry with sliced onion of a line light brown ; lay 
the steaks into a stew pan, and pour as much boiling 
water over them as will serve for sauce ; stew them 
very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of catsup, 
before you serve. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 63 

To Mince Beef. 

Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat ; 
put it into a small stew pan, with some onion, (a very 
little will do,) a little water, pepper and salt ; boil it till 
the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of 
the meat to it, and the mince ; don't let it boil. Have 
a small hot dish with bits of bread ready, and pour the 
mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar 
with it. 



Potted Beef. 

Take three pounds of beef well salted, pick out any 
gristle or skin that may be in it; pound the meat care- 
fully in a stone mortar, with a little butter, until it 
becomes a line paste ; season it by degress as you are 
beating it, with black pepper, allspice, or pounded 
cloves, mace, or grated untmeg. Put in pots, pressing 
it down as closely as possible, and covering it about a 
quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter. 



To Stew a Brisket of Beef. 

Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew pot, 
with a small quantity of water; let it boil up, and 
skim it thoroughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, 
celery, and a few pepper corns. Stew till extremely 
tender; then take out all the flat bones, and remove all 
the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat 
in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, 
garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce 



64 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

is much admired, served with the beef: Take half a 
pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of 
ketchup, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, 
a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few min- 
utes, then pour it round the meat. 



Beef Halls, 

Mince very line a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; 
mince an onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg and lemon peel ; mix all together and moisten 
it with an egg beaten ; roll it into balls, flour and fry 
them in boiling fresh dripping. Serve them with fried 
bread crumbs. 



Beef Steak Smothered with Onions. 

Cut up six onions very fine ; put them in a saucepan 
with two cupsful of hot water, about two ounces of 
good butter, some pepper and salt; dredge in flour. 
Let it stew until the onions are quite soft, then have 
the steak broiled, put into the saucepan with the 
onions; then simmer about ten minutes, and send to 
the table very hot. 

Head Cheese. 

Take a nice hog's head; have it nicely quartered 
and washed well ; let it remain in salt water a few 
hours ; then put on to boil, throw in a little salt at first, 
it will bring up the scum which must be removed ; boil 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 65 

till the meat will drop from the bones ; throw in, while 
boiling, cloves, allspice, and some red pepper pod. 
When done, remove from the fire, take out the meat 
with a ladle, carefully remove all bones ; then with a 
spoon or stick mash up all the meat, and mix well; 
put in a bag, and tie, then put a weight on it, and press 
it; when cold remove a portion of the bag and cut 
into thin slices, and serve with vinegar. The ears 
should be cut off closely, and very carefully washed 
before it is put on to cook. 

Roast Pig. 

Take a pig that the weight is from seven to twelve 
pounds, let it be about Ove .weeks old. Have your 
butcher kill and clean it ; a great deal depends on the 
way it is dressed. Wash it thoroughly inside and out- 
side. Take some nice salt pork and chop it fine ; take 
bakers loaf bread, pour cold water on it; have some 
potatoes boiled and mashed fine, one large chopped 
onion, plenty of pepper, salt and butter, one raw egg^ 
and thyme, sweet basil, summer savory and sweet 
marjoram ; mix all well together ; salt and pepper your 
pig; fill it with the stuffing, and sew it up; bend the 
knee joints up to the body, and tie the feet close, so 
they will appear well when it comes to the table. Put 
it in your dripping pan, salt and pepper and flour ; cut 
nice large pieces of the fat of a raw ham and cover 
over the top, it prevents its browning too fast. It 
should be well basted, and often. It will take about 
from three to four hours to roast it well. Have the 



66 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



liver, lights, and heart boiled tender and chopped for 
the gravy. Put a lemon in its mouth before putting it 
on the table. 



Tripe Stewed, 

Cut tripe into strips, put them in rich gravy, with a 
lump of butter size of a hen's egg^ rolled in flour; 
shake until the butter is melted. Add a tablespoonful 
of white wine, some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, 
pickled mushrooms, and a squeeze of a lemon. Shake 
well together, and stir until tender. 



Lamb to Fry. 

Fry slices of lamb in lard till they are a nice brown. 
They are nice served on a dish of spinach, or on slices 
of nicely toasted bread. 

Calf's Head Pie. 

Boil the head an hour and a half, or even longer; 
put it into cold water, pepper, salt, and add a part of 
a red pepper pod while boiling, remove the meat from 
the bones. Boil the bones again in the same liquor 
for an hour longer; then strain it off, and set it away 
till the next day. To make the pie, boil two eggs for 
five minutes ; let them get cold, then lay them in slices 
at the bottom of a pie dish, and put alternate layers of 
meat and currant jelly, with pepper and chopped 
lemon alternate, till the dish is full, sprinkling each 
layer with pepper, salt and butter. Cover with a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 67 

crust, and bake, adding the liquor '"that was strained 
the day before. This makes a delicious pot pic. 



Mock Venison. 

( MRS. DR. PRICE, KT. ) 

Boil a quarter of mutton until tender. (For even- 
ing companies.) Take a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a pint of tomato cutsup, two tumblers of blackberry or 
plum jelly, half tea cup of mixed mustard, (more if 
it is not very strong,) one bunch of celery chopped 
tine, (if you cannot get the celery, use the seed,) one 
teaspoonful of black pepper, a fourth of a teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, half pint Madeira wine or any 
good cooking wine, a tablespoonful of sugar, more if 
the jelly is acid; stew the whole well together; slice 
the mutton in thin slices in a chafing dish, pour the 
sauce ovqt it, and serve hot. This will be sufficient 
for a dinner or an ordinary evening party. 



Mutton Sash, 

Cut cold mutton into small pieces, fat and lean to- 
gether; make a gravy with the bones that you have 
taken the meat from; put on a little water, add pepper, 
salt, an onion, butter, and a few potatoes cut up raw ; 
let it boil till these are cooked ; take out the bones ; 
take a little of the gravy up and thicken it with flour ; 
put in your meat and let it boil up once, stirring it well, 
and it is ready to be served up. 



68 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Veal 

Requires particular care to roast it brown and nice. 
Let the fire be the same as for beef; it should cook 
slowly at first, and requires to be well cooked. When 
first put in the oven it should be well basted. It should 
be salted and peppered, a little flour and pieces of but- 
ter put over the top ; as veal is seldom fat, it requires 
either butter or any nice firings. 

A FILLET OF VEAL, 

Of from ten to twelve pounds, will require from four 
to five hours at a good fire ; some make a stuffing, or 
forcemeat, and put it under the flap ; it is nice left to 
eat cold or to make into a hash ; in cooking it, let it 
brown nicely. 

A LOIN 

Is the best part of the calf, and will take about three 
hours roasting ; cover the kidney fat with heavy, brown 
paper; some cooks send kidneys to the table on but- 
tered toast, which is eaten with the kidney and the fat, 
which is much more delicate than any marrow. Take 
care to keep up a good fire, so that your meat may 
brown well. 

A SHOULDER OF VEAL 

Will take from three to three and a half hours to 
roast ; stuff it with the forcemeat, as you would a fillet 
of veal. 

NECK, 

Best end, will take two hours. The scrag part is best 
made into a pot pie or into broth ; season same as any 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 69 

of the other pieces. If cut up nicely, it makes a nice 
dish of curry; put in potatoes, salt and pepper; let it 
boil till quite tender, and just before taking up, rub 
together a little butter and flour to make a nice gravy ; 
a teaspoon ful of curry powder is a great improve- 
ment. 

The hock and shin are used for soups. The legs, too, 
are good soup pieces. 

The chump end of the loin and the loin are roasting 
pieces. The hind leg and ilank are used for cutlets, or 
can be used to stuff and roast. ]STeck pieces are gen- 
erally used for stews, pot pies and curries. There are 
few dishes nicer than a nice dish of curried veal. 



Curried Veal. 

Cut your veal into small pieces, say three or four 
inches long, just as you would for any other stew; 
wash nicely, put into a clean iron pot or saucepan, 
with water enough to cover it; add pepper, salt, a few 
pieces of nice salt pork, half a teacup of well washed 
rice, butter the size of a hen's egg, and any kind of 
herbs, if you like their flavor; let it cook slowly — you 
can put in a few potatoes, they help to thicken the 
gravy; if it should not be thick enough, wet up a little 
flour, (be sure there are no lumps in it,) and turn in ; 
then add a little curry powder, and you have a most 
palatable dish. You can make nice curries frequently 
of cold meats, such as are too often thrown into the 
swill bucket. 



70 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Veal Patties, 

( MRS. N. W. BROADWELL. ) 

Three pounds veal, chopped very fine ; one slice of 
salt pork ; one onion, all chopped very fine ; six crack- 
ers, rolled fine; a piece of butter the size of an egg', 
two eggs; one teaspoonful salt, and one of pepper; half 
a nutmeg ; mix well together, form into a round loaf; 
sprinkle bread crumbs, or rolled cracker, over the top, 
with butter ; bake three hours, baste while baking. It 
is very nice cold, sliced for supper; the pork can be 
left out, and more butter added, if you like. 



A Plain Veal Pie. 

Cut the meat from an uncooked breast of veal, and 
stew it in a little water. Have ready a pie dish lined 
with paste. Put in a layer of stewed veal with its 
gravy, and a layer of sausage meat; then veal again, 
and then sausage meat. Repeat till the dish is full. 
Cover with paste, and bake it brown. A cheap and 
good family pie. 



Southern Stewed Veal. 

Peel and boil a half dozen fresh spring onions, drain 
them and slice thin and comely. Put the veal in a 
stew pan, season with salt and a little cayenne ; cover 
the veal with the onions, and lay on them some bits of 
fresh butter rolled in flour. Flavor with nutmeg and 
lemon, if you like. This stew is very nice, and lamb 
or chicken will make an equally nice one. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 71 

Veal Cutlets— -To Stew, 

» 

Cut them about half an inch thick, flatten them with 
a chopper, and fry them in fresh butter or dripping. 
When brown on one side turn and do them on the 
other, continuing to do so till they are thoroughly 
done, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. 
Make a gravy of some trimmings, which put into a 
stewpan with a bit of soft butter, an onion, a roll of 
lemon peel, a blade of mace, some thyme, parsley, and 
stew the whole over a slow fire for an hour, and then 
strain it; put one ounce of butter into another pan, 
and when melted mix with as much flour as will dry it 
up ; stir this for a few minutes, then add the gravy by 
degrees till the whole is mixed ; boil it five minutes, 
then strain it through a sieve and put it to the cutlets. 
Some browning may be added, together with mush- 
room or walnut cut sup, or lemon pickle. 



JFrieandeau of Veal. 

(mks. r. e. GOODELL. ) 

Three pounds and a quarter of raw veal; three- 
fourths of a pound of salt pork, chopped very fine ; 
one teaspoonful salt; one teaspoon black pepper; a 
little sweet marjoram, rubbed fine ; four soda crackers, 
powdered very fine ; three eggs, (raw,) mix well to- 
gether with the hands, to make adhere ; form into a 
large ball or roll, rub with butter, strew pounded 
cracker over it, place it in a pan and bake slowly two 
and a half hours. Slice, when cold, for tea. This is 
used for evening parties. 



72 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Veal Sweatbread. 

Trim a line sweetbread (it cannot be too fresh) ; par- 
boil it for five minutes, and throw it into a basin of 
cold water. Roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of an 
egg, and prepare some fine bread crumbs. When the 
sweetbread is cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth; run a 
lark-spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the ordin- 
ary spit; egg it with a paste brush, powder it well 
with bread crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried 
bread crumbs round it, and melted butter, with a little 
mushroom catsup and lemon juice, or serve them on 
buttered toast, garnished with egg sauce or with gravy. 



Veal and Oyster JPie. 

Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a small 
quantity of grated lemon peel. Cut some veal cutlets, 
and beat them until they are tender; spread over them 
a layer of pounded ham, and roll them round; then 
cover them with oysters, and put another layer of the 
veal fillets, and oysters on the top. Make a gravy of 
the bones and trimmings, or with a lump of butter, 
onion, a little flour, and water; stew the osyter liquor, 
and put to it, and fill up the dish, reserving a portion 
to put into the pie when it comes from the oven. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take a cold fillet of veal, omit the fat and mince as 
fine as possible, mix with one-fourth pound of fat ham, 
chopped fine ; a teacup grated bread crumbs, a grated 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK.' 73 

nutmeg, two beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, and a 
half saltspoon cayenne ; mix well together in the form 
of a loaf. Glaze over with the yelk of egg^ and strew 
over pounded cracker. Set the . dish in an oven, and 
bake half an hour. Make a gravy of the trimmings of 
veal, or some of the gravy left when the meat was 
served the first day. Heat up the gravy, thickened 
with the yelk of an egg dropped in just before taken 
up, and serve the loaf with the gravy poured round it. 



Veal JPie. 

Take a shoulder of veal, cut it up and boil one hour, 
then add a quarter pound of butter, pepper and salt, 
cover the meat with biscuit dough, cover close and 
stew half an hour, and it will be ready. 



Veal Stuffing. 

Chop half a pound of suet, put it in a basin with 
three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, a little thyme, 
three whole eggs, mix well. A pound of breadcrumbs 
and one more egg may be used, it will make it cut 
firmer. 



Minced Veal. 

Chop fine the pieces of cold roast veal; heat over 

the gravy, or if none is left, melt a piece of butter the 

size of an egg in a gill of hot water, stir till it is 

melted, lest it become oily; when it boils, put in the 

—9 



74 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

w;il and cover it, stir it several times while cooking; 
season with pepper and salt. Toast a tew slices of 
bread and lay on the dish, put the veal on the toast. 



Veal ratty. 

(MRS. 1IERVEY ELLIOTT.) 

Four pounds of veal, 

One pound and a half of pickled pork, 



Three eggs, 



Six crackers. 
("hop the pork and veal about as fine as mincemeat; 
then add the eggs, well beaten, and the crackers finely 
rolled; season with salt and pepper to suit the taste. 
Bake aboul two hours, occasionally basting it. 



'Breast of Veal. 

Cover it with the caul, and, if yon retain the sweet- 
bread, skewer it to the back, but take off the caul 
when the meat is nearly done; it will take two and a 
half to three hours 1 roasting; serve with melted butter 
and gravy. 

Veal Dressed with White Sauee. 

Boil milk, or cream, with a thickening of flour and 
butter; put into it thin slices of cold veal, and simmer 
it in the gravy till it is made hot without boiling- 
When nearly done, beat up the yolk of an egg with 
any nice table sauce that suits the taste; pour it gently 
to the rest, stirring all the time; let it just come to a 
boil, and it is done. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 75 

Sandiviches, ( Very Fine.) 

Chop the ham or tongue very fine; add mustard, 
pepper, extract of celery, and melted butter to taste, 
and hot water enough to make it spread. Have fresh, 
light bread, (or beaten biscuits,) cut thin, butter, and 
then spread on the prepared meat. 



Veal Minced. 

Cut veal from the bone into small pieces; put in 
veal or mutton gravy, pepper, salt, a little butter, cat- 
sup, if it is liked. Put it into a saucepan, and simmer 
it slowly; when nearly done thicken with a little flour 
rubbed up with butter, stir in, giving it time to thicken 
well. 



Fricasseed Chicken. 

Cut up chicken, and boil with a slice or two of pork 
in sufficient water to cover, till quite tender. Fry some 
pork, and when cooked a little, drain the chicken and 
fry with the pork till quite brown. Then take out, and 
pour the broth into the frying pan, with the pork fat, 
and make a gravy thickened with browned flour; season 
well with butter, and put the chicken into the gravy. 
Be sure and have the fat quite hot when the chicken 
is put in, so it will brown readily. 



Roast Turkey. 

See that your turkey is washed and free from all 
small feathers ; examine the inside well that nothing is 
left there that ought to be removed ; remove the craw 



76 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

and wind pipe, that is often carelessly left in. Make 
a Bluffing as for " roast pig," if it is liked, if not, any 
plainer dressing will do; till your turkey, and sew it 
up. Salt and pepper to your taste, dredge on flour; 
put hits of butter on the top. A turkey of ten pounds 
will take about three hours to cook. It should be well 
hasted and kept from blistering, if it blisters it is cook- 
ing to* v fast. Turkey should be cooked very t ton Highly, 
if it browns to rapidly, put a paper of three or four 
thicknesses over it. The giblets should be put on 
early and boiled very tenderly, and then chopped as 
Hue as it can be chopped and the gravy made of it. 
To make the gravy, take the giblets after they have 
been chopped, put pepper, salt and butter, and dredge 
in sufficient nour to make it thick enough. When 
your turkey is removed from the pan, pour in sufficient 
gravy from the pan on the giblets, and boil it. 



Hoftst (loose. 

A goose should be roasted in the same manner as a 
turkey. It is better to make the stuffing with some 
mashed potatoes; always an onion, as a goose is not 
good without it, (the onion can be omitted in a turkey.) 
Put salt, pepper, butter, and a little sage; stun and 
roast well. Some like goose a little rare, that is a 
matter of taste. Apple sauce is good to eat with goose. 



Roast J)ftch's. 

Ducks should be, as well as all other fowls, washed 
with great care; they should be wiped dry and singed 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 77 

well, then wiped again. They should be stuffed with 
a stuffing as for goose. A pair of ducks will cook in 
about an hour. Baste them well, and dredge them 
well with flour to make them brown. Canvass back 
ducks are generally cooked without stuffing. 



JEgg Frizzle. 

Pour boiling water on to dried beef, that has been 
slivered very line ; change the water a time or two, if 
the beef is too salt, then pour off the water, and frizzle 
the beef in butter. When done, break in two or three 
eggs, and stir till the egg is hardened. This may be 
done without the egg, if preferred. 



Sauce for Roast Beef or Mutton. 

Grate horseradish on a bread grater into a basin ; 
then add two tablesj30onsful of cream, with a little mus- 
tard and salt ; mix them well together ; then add four 
tablespoonsful of the best vinegar, and mix the whole 
thoroughly. The vinegar and cream are both to be 
cold; add a little powdered white sugar. This is a 
very line sauce, it may be served in a small tureen. 



Croquettes. 

These are a sort of mince meat dumpling. Take 
some cold veal, chicken, lobster, or tender cold beef, 
chopped tine. Put a half tablespoon butter in a sauce- 
pan on the iire. When melted, put in a piece of onion 
chopped fine; fry a little; add half a tablespoon of 



78 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Hour. When it browns put in the minced meat; stir 
it steadily, and add salt and pepper. Then add a gill 
and a half of broth, and set the pan a little off the lire 
bo simmer. Chop three stalks of parsley line, and 
mix it on the fire, stirring all the time. Then break in 
two eggs, Btirring taster; in two or three minutes take 
it from the lire and set it to eool. Thus far has occu- 
pied about ten minutes. When the meat is eold, sift 
some Hour on the board; take a lump of the mince the 
size oi' an egg, or Larger, roll it in the tine flour, dip it 
in a cup of beaten egg, drain and roll it in bread 
crumbs; have a quantity of boiling suet, or drippings 
in a frying pan, and fry the croquettes in them tor a 
couple of minutes, till brown. Put in a colander, and 
let the fat drain off. 



An Economical Disli. 

Steam or boil some mealy potatoes; mash them to- 
gether with some butter or cream, season them, and 
place a layer at the bottom of the pie dish;' upon this 
place a layer oi finely chopped cold meat, or iish of 
any kind, well seasoned; then add another layer of 
potatoes, and continue alternating these with more 
chopped meat until the dish is tilled. Smooth down 
the top, strew bread crumbs upon it, and bake until it 
is brown. A very small quantity o\' meat serves in 
this manner to make a nice, presentable little dish. A 
sprinkling of chopped pickles may be added, if con- 
venient, and when lish is employed, it eats better if 
first beaten up with raw eggs. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 79 

French Stew, 

Cut into pieces two or three pounds of the lean of 
fresh, tender beef, veal or pork, and peel and slice a 
quarter of a peck of ripe tomatoes ; season the whole 
with a little pepper and salt. Put the whole into a 
stew pot, and cover it close, opening it only occasion- 
ally to see how it is cooking. Put no water to stew, 
the juice of the tomatoes is enough liquid. "When the 
tomatoes are dissolved, stir in a piece of fresh butter 
dredged with flour. Let it stew about a quarter 
of an hour longer. When the meat is done through, 
have ready some bits of very dry toast cut in a three- 
cornered shape, leaving the crust off. Dip the toast 
for a moment in some hot water, butter it, and stand it 
up around the inside of a deep dish. Fill in the stew 
and serve hot. 



Potatoes Roasted under Meat, 

Half boil large potatoes, drain the water from them, 
and put them into an earthen dish or small tin pan, 
under meat that is roasting, and baste them with some 
of the dripping. When they are browned on one side, 
turn them and brown the other, send them up round 
the meat, or in a small dish. 



For a French JPot an Feu, 

Put into a large earthen pot or pipkin six pounds of 
good fresh beef, and four quarts of water. Set it on a 
slow lire, skim it when it simmers, and when nearly 



80 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

boiling add one teaspoonful salt, half a pound of liver 
cut in pieces, and some black pepper ; add two or three 
large carrots sliced, four turnips pared and quartered, 
eight young onions peeled and sliced thick, two onions 
roasted whole, a head of celery cut up, a parsnip sliced, 
and six potatoes pared and quartered ; also a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Let all boil slowly and steadily, skim- 
ming well; let it simmer live or six hours. Lay some 
large slices of bread in the bottom of a tureen, pour 
the soup upon it. This is a very good, plain dish. 



Good, Plain Family Irish Stew. 

Take about two pounds of scrag or neck of mutton; 
divide it into ten pieces, lay them in the pan ; cut eight 
large potatoes and four onions in slices, season with 
one teaspoonful and a half of pepper, and three of 
salt ; cover all with water ; put it into a slow oven for 
two hours, then stir it all up well, and dish up in deep 
dishes. If you add a little more water at the com- 
mencement, you can take out when half done a nice 
cup of broth. 

Sow to Cut a Chicken to Fry, 

Have a sharp knife to begin with; then cut the 
wings off first; then the legs, cutting them carefully 
and neatly; throw each leg toward the back of the 
chicken and sever it from the body through the hip 
joint; next cut the chicken through the back; remove 
the lower portion of the back, then the neck piece, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 81 

cutting it oft' through the rib joints ; this leaves the 
breast piece, which should be cut in two lengthwise. A 
chicken cut up in this way looks much neater than to 
cut it in any other way. The leg can be cut in two 
pieces, making it more handy to serve at the table. 
With care, and a little practice, this art may be easily 
learned. 



Stewed Rabbits, % 

Cut the shoulders of the rabbits, and throw them 
into a little salt and water to draw out the blood ; when 
ready, cut them in pieces and put them in a pot with 
water enough to cook them ; wash and peel some nice 
potatoes and cut them in pieces, and put in with the 
rabbit ; let it stew till the rabbit is cooked very tender ; 
then take flour and butter and rub them well together, 
and stir in; let it boil up till it makes a nice gravy; 
pepper and salt to suit the taste. 



Rabbit JPot JPie. 

Prepare the rabbits by cutting them up and putting 
them into a little salt and water ; let them remain till 
cleansed from all blood spots. Make a dough, not too 
short, and if you wish a boiled pot pie, put in your 
rabbits and potatoes intermixed with pieces of the 
dough, that should be rolled out about half an inch 
and cut in oblong pieces ; put in the dough alternately 
with the potatoes and rabbits ; put salt, pepper and but- 
ter, and water enough to cook it and make the gravy ; 



82 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

put a crust on the top of the pot; let it boil slowly, and 
if you wish the top crust browned, heat a griddle or 
cover and put on till it is brown. When your dinner 
is ready to serve, have your dish or platter ready, 
take off the top crust, and with a ladle dip up the 
rabbits ; the gravy will be thick enough, unless there 
was too much water put in. When all is out, pour in 
your gravy and put on the top crust. Pot pies are 
made the same way to be baked. 

Chicken, veal, pigeons, squirrels and quails are 
made into pot pies, the same directions answering for 
all. Care should be taken not to put to put too much 
water, and there should be quite enough to cook the 
pie, leaving enough to make enough gravy or the pie 
will be very dry. All such pies or stews should be well 
seasoned. 

Broiled Babbits. 

Take the hind quarters of the rabbit and pound 
them well; salt and pepper, and have your gridiron 
well greased and heated ; put them on and let them 
broil slowly. When done, butter and send to the 
table hot. The butter should be melted in a pan, with 
a little sprinkle of flour and a good deal of pepper. 
Put the rabbits in a piece at a time, and with the 
pounder mash them into the butter. 



Broiled Quails. 

These are the nicest of birds, and require great care 
to have them nicely cooked. They are considered 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 83 

best when nicely broiled. Each quail should be picked 
over carefully, then they should be pounded slightly 
with the steak pounder, to break the bones and give 
them an opportunity to broil. A very nice way to 
serve them is to toast bread a light brown, and butter 
each piece well ; lay a bird on each piece of the toast, 
and pour the butter in which they were dipped over 
the whole. If the toast is not liked, serve without. 



Potted Rabbit, 

Take very young fat hares or rabbits ; wash and soak 
them in salt and water; then take them out of the 
water and wipe each piece quite dry; pepper, salt, 
and flour them well, and fry them nicely in hot lard ; 
then take them from the stove and put them in a stone 
jar; pour the gravy, which should be made like 
chicken gravy, over them, adding one pint of boiling 
water; set this jar, which must be covered tight, in the 
oven, and let it remain about an hour and a half. 
The English think this a choice dish, and add one 
tumbler of good port wine. 



Stewed Prairie Chicken. 

Out the chickens in pieces, wash and pick off all 
small feathers ; put them in a pot, with just enough 
water to cook them, with salt, pepper and butter. 
Make a nice gravy of flour and butter, and stir in just 
before taking them up. Prairie chickens, if young, 
are splendid broiled. 



84 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Fried Chickens. 

This is one of nicest ways that chickens can be 
cooked, and there is no way that requires more 
attention. If chickens are killed and picked at home, 
they should not be allowed to remain in the boiling 
water in which they are scalded; they should be 
picked as quick as possible, and then as soon as they 
are thoroughly cleaned, throw them into cold water 
till yon are ready to cut them up ready for frying. 
Each piece should be salted and peppered, and dredged 
with flour ; have the lard hot, and after all the pieces 
are in, cover with a tight fitting cover, let it fry 
slowly. Make a gravy by putting a little flour in 
the skillet, (after you have taken up the chickens.) 
Pour in boiling water and then a little milk or cream ; 
pour gravy over the chickens, or serve in a gravy boat. 



Chicken Salad. 

For two chickens, take — 

The yolks of eight hard boiled eggs, 

One small teaspoonful of salt, 

One-half of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. 

One-half a wine glass made mustard, 

One wine glass and a half of vinegar, 

Two wine glasses of sweet olive oil. 

As much celery as there is chopped chicken. 

The chicken can be chopped very line, or in larger 
pieces, as taste may dictate ; chop celery line ; chop 
eggs very fine, mix with the chicken : then add the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 85 

celery and other ingredients ; add more vinegar, if too 
dry, and black pepper. To this quantity about eight 
good sized pickles may be chopped line and added, 
many think them an improvement. 



Mayonaise. 

A SUPPER DISH. 

Six hard boiled eggs, (yolks only,) 

Fonr tablespoonsful mixed mustard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One teaspoonful sugar, 

Ten tablespoonsful of vinegar, 

Ten tablespoonsful of rich cream, 

One teaspoonful celery seed. 
Slice cold fowl, or other delicate meat, and lay in 
the above mixture two or three hours before tea; wash 
lettuce and put on ice; just before tea is ready lay al- 
ternate layers of meat and lettuce, leaving lettuce for 
the top. Pour dressing over the whole. 



Smothered or Baked Chickens. 

Your chickens should be large and fat; split them 
down the back and put them in your dripping pan ; 
salt and pepper, with plenty of butter put over the 
top ; set them in the stove, with water sufficient to cook 
them. This is baked chicken. If you wish them 
smothered, cover a closely fitting pan over them, and 
let them cook slowly; put flour over the top before 
you put them in the stove. Make gravy with flour in 
the dripping pan in which they are cooked. 



$(y ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

To Cook Calf's or Beef's Liver. 

Cut the slices half an inch thick ; put in a pan and 
pour over them some boiling water till it becomes 
white; pour off the water; salt, pepper, and flour each 
slice, and fry in hot lard ; turn often, that it may not 
become hard when done ; take up on your dish ; shake 
flour into skillet ; add a little salt and pepper, and 
sweet milk enough to make a nice, thick gravy ; let it 
boil up once and pour over your liver. Always 
remove the skin from the liver before frying it. 



V E G ETA BLES. 



There is nothing in which the difference between an 
elegant and an ordinary table is more seen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more especially of greens. 
They may be equally as fine at first, at one place as at 
another, but their look and taste are afterward very 
different, entirely from the careless way in which they 
have been cooked. They are in greatest perfection 
when in greatest plenty — when in full season. By sea- 
son, we do not mean those early days, that luxury in 
the buyers and avarice in the sellers, force the various 
vegetables ; but the time of year in which, by nature 
and common culture, and the mere operation of the 
sun and climate, they are in most plenty and perfection. 

Potatoes and peas are scarcely worth eating before 
mid-summer. 

Unripe vegetables are as insipid and unwholesome as 
unripe fruits. As to the quality of vegetables, the middle 
size are preferred to the largest or the smallest ; they 
are more tender, juicy, and full of flavor just before 
they are quite full grown; freshness is their chief 
value and excellence, and I should as soon think of 
roasting an animal alive as of boiling a vegetable after 
it is dead. The eye easily discovers if they have been 



88 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

kept too long. They soon lose their beauty in all 
respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, etc., and the various produc- 
tions of the garden, when first gathered, are plump 
and firm, and have a fragrant freshness no art can give 
them again; though it will refresh them a little to put 
them into cold spring water for some time before they 
are dressed. 

TO BOIL THEM 

In soft water will preserve the color best of such as 
are green. If you only have hard water put to it a 
teaspoonful of soda. 

TAKE CARE TO WASH 

And cleanse them thoroughly from dust, dirt and in- 
sects. This requires great attention. Pick off all the 
outside leaves ; trim them nicely ; lay them in a pan of 
clear, cold water, with a little salt in it, and let them 
remain an hour at least before cooking. 

TO HAVE VEGETABLES DELICATELY CLEAN, 

Put on your pot with sufficient water and a little salt ; 
make it boil and skim it perfectly clean before you put 
on greens of any kind to cook. They should not be 
put in till the water boils briskly. The quicker greens 
boil the greener they will be. 

WHEN VEGETABLES SINK 

to the bottom of the pot they are generally done 
enough, if the water has been kept boiling Take 
them up immediately or they will lose their color and 
goodness ; drain off all the water before sending to the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 89 

table. This branch of cooking requires the most vigi- 
lant attention. If vegetables are a minute or two too 
long over the fire, they lose all their beauty and flavor. 
If they are not thoroughly boiled tender, they are very 
indigestible. 

TO PRESERVE OR GIVE COLOR 

in cookery, many good dishes are spoiled; but the 
rational epicure who makes nourishment the main end 
of eating, will be content to sacrifice the shadow to 
enjoy the substance. Once for all, take care that your 
vegetables are fresh; for the fishmonger often suffers 
for the sins of the cook, so the cook often gets unde- 
servedly blamed instead of the green grocer. 



Potato Cakes. 

Peel enough good sized potatoes for a meal for the 
family ; grate on a coarse grater, and stir in from three 
to five eggs ; then add a little flour — more eggs will not 
hurt them; stir well, and fry in hot lard, and, if tried 
once, my word for it, they will be tried again and often. 



Potatoes, 

There are few articles in families more subject to 
waste, both in paring, boiling, and being actually 
thrown away, than potatoes ; and there are few cooks 
but what boil twice as many potatoes every day as are 
wanted, and fewer still that do not throw the residue 
away as totally unfit, in any shape, for the next day's 
—10 



90 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

meal ; and yet, if they would take the trouble to heat 
up the despised cold potatoes in many or any of the 
various dishes recommended, they would find a cheap 
and very agreeable appendage to either the breakfast 
or dinner table. We are all potato eaters, (and esteem 
them beyond any other vegetable,) yet few know how 
to cook them well. 



Plain JB oiled Potatoes, 

Put them into a saucepan with scarcely sufficient 
water to cover them. Directly the skin begins to 
break, lift them from the fire, and as quick as possible 
pour off every drop of the water. Then place a coarse 
(we need not say clean) towel over them, and return 
them to the fire again until they are thoroughly done 
and quite dry. A little salt should have been added 
to the water before boiling. Care should, of course, 
be used that they do not scorch or burn. 

Potatoes to Hash* 

These should be boiled in the same manner as the 
above directions ; peeled, and mashed till there are no 
lumps of the potato left ; salt to the taste ; butter the 
size of an egg for about a dozen potatoes ; a little good 
sweet cream or new milk; mash well together and 
serve while hot. 



Mashed Potatoes 

May be put into a pie plate of tin or earthenware, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 91 

smoothed over the top till quite round; make a hole 
in the centre, put in a lump of butter, and set it in 
the stove and let it brown nicely. Some persons beat 
up the yolk of an egg and put over it, this is a 
matter of fancy altogether. 



Baked Potatoes. 

Wash very clean your potatoes, cutting a small piece 
from each end, by so doing the steam or heat escapes, 
and the potatoes are more dry and mealy. Do not let 
let them remain in the oven to get too hard and dry ; 
judgment should be used to have them just done in 
time to serve, as they will be spoiled if they remain 
long in the oven. 

Potatoes Fried Whole. 

When nearly boiled enough, put them into a stew 
pan with a bit of butter or some clean beef drippings ; 
shake them about often to prevent burning, till they 
are brown and crisp; clear them from the fat. It will 
be an improvement if they are floured and dipped into 
tHb yolk of an egg, and then rolled in finely sifted 
crumbs. 



Tomato Omelet. 

Select your tomatoes ; pour over them boiling water 
to remove the skins ; then chop them, and put them in 
a saucepan without any water; put one or two onions 
chopped fine, a lump of butter the size of an egg, pep- 



92 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

per and salt to the taste ; cook slowly, and till they are 
pretty well cooked ; then have ready the yelks of two 
eggs, well beaten, with half a teacnp of sweet cream, 
and pour this into the cooked tomatoes, just before you 
take them from the stove, stir well; do not leave this 
on the stove after the eggs are stirred in, else the eggs 
and cream will curdle. 



Potatoes Escolloped* 

Mash potatoes in the usual way; then butter some 
nice, clean scollop shells, patty pans or saucers; put 
in your potatoes ; make them smooth at the top, strew 
some bread crumbs over them ; rub, or pour, over each 
a little melted butter ; set them in the oven to brown ; 
when done, take them out and turn them over, and if 
the under side is not browned, set them again into the 
oven a few minutes. 



Saratoga Fried Potatoes. 

Peel and slice large, nice potatoes, slice them very 
thin ; have a kettle with lard, and when it boils, put in 
a portion of the potatoes, and fry them a light brown^ 
keep moving them about till they are crisp ; take them 
from the lard with a skimmer, let them drip free of the 
lard ; send them to the table hot ; salt may be added 
after they are taken up, or they can be salted before 
frying. "When they are used in winter for breakfast, 
they should be prepared over night and thrown into 
salt water ; in the morning, dip them from the water ; 
lay them in a clean, dry cloth, and wipe off all the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 93 

. . • 

water, then fry them as above. This way of prepar- 
ing them over night in winter is better, as the mornings 
are so very short, and it takes considerable time to pre- 
pare them. This way is preferred to almost any other 
way of frying potatoes. It would not do for an every 
day dish, as it takes considerable lard, and would be 
rather expensive at the end of a year. 



Potato Fritters. 

( MRS. RYAN. ) 

Three eggs, one quart sweet milk, and a little flour; 
rub in the flour with the eggs, salt to the taste. The 
batter must not be too thin. Then add well mashed 
potatoes ; have a little lard in a skillet, it must be hot, 
and drop the mixture in by spoonsful in small cakes; 
fry a light brown. They must be eaten hot. 



Plain Fried Potatoes. 

Potatoes can be par-boiled, and the skins removed ; 
then sliced and fried, for either breakfast or dinner; 
and the potatoes left from dinner, put away carefully, 
are nice sliced and fried. 



French Batter for, Frying Vegetables. 

Moisten a little flour with water, and add to it a 
small quantity of salt, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and 
a spoonful and a half of French brandy ; beat up the 
mixture thoroughly, and when you are ready to use it, 



9& ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

boat into it the white of an egg previously beaten to a 

strong troth. This batter may be used tor frying 
sweet entremets, in which ease sugar must be put 
instead of salt. 



Potato Shoic. 

Pick out the whitest potatoes, put them on in cold 
water; when they begin to crack open, pour oh 1 ' the 
water and put them in a clean saucepan before the tire 
till thev are quite dry, and tall to pieces; rub them 
through a wire sieve on the dish thev are to be sent to 
the table in, and do not mash them, but let them 
remain as thev tall from the sieve. They should be 
salted, of course, while they are boiling. 



Squash. 

Gather the summer squashes when young and ten- 
der. It' the scallop, the seeds will do no harm; cut it 
in quarters, and boil in a bag until tender; squeeze out 
all the water, and season with salt and butter; pepper 
can be added at the table. 



Turnips 

Should always be boiled whole, and put in much after 
either carrots or parsnips, as they require less boiling. 
When used in stews, they are cut into small pieces the 
size of dice, or made into shapes with a little instru- 
ment to be found at all cutlery shops. They may be 
mashed in the same manner as parsnips, but some per- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 95 

sons add the yelk of a raw egg or two. They are also 
frequently made into a puree to thicken mutton broth. 



String Beans. 

Gather them while young enough to break crispy; 
break off both ends, and string them; break in hall 
and boil in water with a little salt, until tender; drain 
free from water, and season with butter. 



Succotash, or Corn, and Beans. 

If old beans are used, they must be soaked over 
night, and parboiled in two waters before putting in 
the pork. The com should be added to the beans and 
pork about fifteen minutes before the hour for serving 
the dinner. It is well to boil the cobs with the beans 
and pork in the last water. Remove them before 
adding the corn. For using beans not fully ripe, one 
change of water is sufficient; the pork c^n be parboiled 
at the same time. Beans for succotash should remain 
whole; care must be taken that they boil gently, so as 
not to break them. Considerable water is generally 
used in boiling the beans, that no more need be added 
when the corn is put in; most persons like consider- 
able soup in this dish. Families can be governed by 
taste in this. Dish the corn and beans in a deep dish 
with the broth, and season with butter and a very little 
salt ; use no pepper, if any person desire it, it is easily 
added. Serve the pork on a platter, after taking off 
the skin and dotting it with pepper, by dipping the 



96 ILLINOIS cook BOOK. 

little linger in ground pepper and pressing it on (she 
Dork. 



Tomato St<>te. 

Take large, ripe tomatoes, scald, peel and quartei 

them, and sprinkle then) with a little salt and pepper. 
Tut in a stewpan some thin, tender beef steaks, land) 
or mutton chops. Bury the meat in the tomato, and 
add bits of fresh butter rolled in tlonr and BUgar, it' 
von do not like the aeid oi' the tomatoes; add a chopped 
onion or two, if von like it. Cook slowlv till the meat 
is done and tomatoes all dissolved to a pulp. Add no 
water to this stew. A vorv wholesome dish. 



Sweetbreads and Cauliflowers. 

Take 4 four large sweetbreads and two cauliflowers. 
Split open the sweetbreads and remove the gristle. 

Soak them awhile in lukewarm water; put them into 

a saucepan o£ boiling water, and set them to boil ten 

minutes. Afterward lav them in a pan ofcold water 

to make them firm. The parboiling i* to whiten 

them. Wash, drain and quarter the cauliflowers. 
Tnt them in a broad stewpan with the sweetbreads on 
them; season with a little cayenne and a little nutmeg 

— add water to cover them. Put on the lid of the pan 
ami stew one hour. Take a quarter of a pound o\' 
fresh butter and roll in two tablespoons oi' Hour; 
add this with a teaonp oi' milk to the stew, and give it 
one boil up, and no more. Serve hot, in a deep dish. 
This stow will be found delicious. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 97 



To Stew lied (Jabbaye. 

Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and 
put if into a saucepan with pepper, Halt, no water but 

what hangs about it, and a piece of butter; stew till 

quite tender, and when going to nerve, add two or 
three Spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil over the 
lire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. 



Fried Jfyy Plant. 

Peel the egg plants, slice them thin, sprinkle a little 
salt over them, and let them remain halt an hour; 
wipe the slices dry, dip them into beaten yelk of egg, 
then into grated cracker, and fry them a light brown 
in boiling lard, seasoning them slightly with pepper 
while they are cooking. Another way is to parboil the 
egg plants, after they are peeled, in water with a little 
salt, then slice thin, dust them with corn meal, flour, 
or corn starch, and fry them brown. 



iireen Com 'Dumplings* 

A quart of young corn grated from the cob, 
Half a pint of wheat flour sifted, 
Half a pint of milk, 
Six tablespoonsfcd of butter, 
Two eggs, 

A saltepoonfu] of salt, 
A saltspoonful of pepper, 
Butter for frying. 
Having grated as tint- as possible sufficient young fresh 



98 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

corn to make a quart, mix with it the wheat flour, and 
add the salt and pepper. Warm the milk in a small 
saucepan, and soften the butter in it. Then add them 
gradually to the pan of corn, stirring very hard, and 
set it away to cool. Beat the eggs light, and stir them 
into the mixture when it has cooled. Flour your 
hands and make it into little dumplings. Put into a 
fryingpan a sufficiency of fresh butter, (or lard and 
butter in equal proportions,) and when it is boiling hot, 
and has been skimmed, put in the dumplings, and fry 
them ten minutes or more, in proportion to their thick- 
ness. Then drain them, and send them hot to the din- 
ner table. 



Green Corn in Winter, 

Take tender green corn, (sweet corn is best,) boil it 
ten minutes. Then cut it from the cob and dry it in 
the sun. Corn preserved in this way will keep for 
years, and will be perfectly fresh when brought on the 
table. To prepare for use, cook it until tender in as 
little water as possible. When nearly done, add milk, 
butter and salt to taste. 

Tomato Pudding. 

Pour boiling water on tomatoes, remove the skins ; 
put in the bottom of the pudding dish some bread 
crumbs, them slice the tomatoes on them, season with 
sugar, butter, pepper and salt; add some more bread 
crumbs, then the sliced tomatoes and seasoning; and if 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 99 

the tomato does not wet the bread crumbs, add a little 
water. Then, for a small pudding, beat up two eggs, 
and pour over the top. Bake about twenty minutes. 



To Broil Tomatoes. 

Wash and wipe the tomatoes, and put them on the 
gridiron over live coals, with the stem down. When 
that side is brown turn them and let them cook 
through. Put them on a hot dish and send quickly to 
table, to be there seasoned to taste. 



To Bake Tomatoes, 

Season them with salt and pepper ; flour them over, 
put them in a deep plate with a little butter, and bake 
in a stove. 



Fricasseed Egg Plant. 

Having peeled and sliced the egg plants, boil them 
in water with a saltspoonful of salt, until they are 
thoroughly cooked. Drain off the water, pour in suf- 
ficient milk to cover the slices, and add a few bits of 
butter rolled in flour ; let it simmer gently, shaking the 
pan over the fire till the sauce is thick, and stir in the 
beaten yolks of two or three eggs just before it is 
served. 



Beets. 

These should be, as all other vegetables should be, 
fresh gathered, carefully selected, well washed, and 



100 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

they should be put into cold water. In cutting off the 
tops, do not cut too closely, or you will lose the rich, 
red color. They should be salted while boiling, and 
when done, taken up and thrown a few moments 
into clear, cold water, the skin will then slip off easily ; 
slice them thin, and dress with butter and pepper; 
vinegar, if it is preferred. 

Parsnips. 

These are a nice winter vegetable, and are very nice 
boiled and dressed with butter, pepper and salt. They 
should be sliced lengthwise. A very nice way is to 
have butter hot in a skillet, and lay each piece nicely 
in the butter, and fry, turning over, that both sides 
may be browned. 

Cabbage. 

The Early York is a nice summer cabbage, and 
should be boiled with nice salt pork or corned beef, or 
a piece of brisket, either is nice, and makes a good 
family dinner. 

Asparagus 

Should be young, and freshly cut; boil in a litt> 
salted water; they should be tied carefully before put- 
ting in the water ; (have nice bread toasted, if it is 
liked that way;) when done, take up, cut off the 
string, pour over the toast, if used, and if not, dress it 
with melted butter. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 101 



Peas. 

Boil peas in salted water, and dress' with butter. 
Some make a drawn butter, and some put cream and 
butter; all tastes are not alike. In the manner of 
cooking, that must be left to the tastes of those who 
are to eat them; but one thing should always be looked 
carefully to, that is to be sure they have not lain in 
the market for a week or more; they are not only 
unfit to eat, but are very unhealthy. 



String Beans', 

These should always be gathered fresh ; string them, 
by breaking off both ends and pulling off the string 
that is on either side; they should then be broken. 
Always boil bacon with these. 



To Preserve Mushrooms. 

To each quart of mushrooms allow three ounces of 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of one lemon, 
clarified butter. Peel the mushrooms, put them into 
cold water, with a little lemon juice; take them on1 
and dry them very carefully in a cloth. Put the but- 
ter into a stewpan capable of holding the mushroom- : 
when it is melted, add the mushrooms, lemon juice, 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt; draw them down 
over a slow tire, and let them remain until their liquor 
is boiled away, and they have become quite dry, but be 
careful in not allowing them to the stick to the bottom 



102 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of the stewpan. When done, put them into pots, and 
pour over the top clarified butter. If wanted for im- 
mediate use, they will keep good a few days without 
being covered over. To re-warm them, put the mush- 
rooms into a stewpan, strain the butter from them, and 
they will be ready for use. 

Mushrooms Steived in Gravy, 

One pint of mushroom buttons, one pint of brown 
gravy, quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
cayenne and salt to taste. Make a pint of brown 
gravy, cut nearly all the stalks away from the mush- 
rooms and peel the tops; put them into a stewpan, 
with the gravy, and simmer them gently from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Add the nutmeg and a sea- 
soning of cayenne and salt, and serve very hot. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe dry, and bake in a 
quick oven, according to their size — half an hour for 
small ones, and from three-quarters to an hour for 
larger ones. Let the oven have a good heat, and do 
not open any more than necessary to turn them, until 
they are done. ■ 

Roasted Sweet Potatoes, 

Having washed them clean and wiped them dry; 
cover them with ashes, and then with hot coals; 
watch them closely that they do not burn. (This can 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 103 

only be done when you burn wood, and can be done in 
the hearth of the stove.) 



Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them clean, put them in a pot or stewpan and 
pour boiling water over to cover them ; cover the pot 
close, and boil fast for half an hour or more, accord- 
ing the size; try them with a fork; when done, drain 
off the water, take off the skin and serve. 



Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, across or 
lengthwise, and fried in hot lard or butter. 



Summer Squash. 

Squashes to be fit to eat, must be fresh, if they are 
not, the outside will be crisp when cut with the nail. 
Cut them in small pieces, and if not very tender, pare 
off the outside skin, scrape the seed from the inside ; 
wash them and put them in a saucepan and cook till 
tender ; add salt to make them palatable. After they 
are cooked well, let them cook down slowly till all the 
water is all cooked out and they are thick ; then dress 
them with butter and pepper ; put them in a dish ; 
smooth them over the top, and they are ready for the 
table. 



Young Beets. 

Wash fresh pulled young beets; break the tops 



104 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



from them, pick from them all the withered leaves, 
and put them with the beets into a pot of hot water; 
cover it, and let them boil fast for half an hour, or 
longer, if the beets are large; then take the tops into 
a colander, and press all the water from them; take 
the beets into a pan of cold water and rub off the skin 
with the hand ; put the pressed tops into a dish, slice 
the beets over them ; make a small cup of vinegar 
hot, with a bit of butter the size of an egg', add salt 
and pepper to the taste; add a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, if liked. If the stalks of beet tops are long, 
cut them from the beets and the leaves, tie them in 
bunches and boil, and serve like asparagus. 



Greens and Sprouts. 

Cabbage sprouts, young beet tops and the green, 
young turnips, are boiled with salt meats or in clear, 
salt water. 



Spinage, 

Spinage should be carefully picked over and well 
washed, and let remain in cold water till ready to cook ; 
have your water boiling and salted; put in your 
spinage, and do not let it boil more than twenty minu- 
tes. When time to serve, drain in a colander till all 
the water has drained off; then dress with butter and 
pepper. Another way to dress it, is to drain it as dry 
as you can, and put it in a chopping bowl, chop it 
very line indeed ; have ready eight or ten hard boiled 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 105 

eggs, chopped as line as you can chop them; mix the 
the eggs well through the spinage; put butter and pep- 
per. It will have to be returned to the stove and 
warmed again before putting it on the table. 



Slaw. 

Two eggs, well beaten, 

One teaspoonful dry mustard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One teaspoonful sugar, 

One-half teaspoonful flour, 

One-half teaspoonful black pepper, 

A little cayenne, 

Three-fourths of a teacupful vinegar, 

Three-fourths of a teacupful cream or new 
milk, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

One-half teaspoonful celery seed. 
Mix and beat all well together, and place the mix- 
ture in a another vessel containing boiling water till it 
is the consistency of thick cream; stir well; pour hot 
over cabbage. 

Hot Slaw. 

Cut the cabbage with a slaw cutter, or very tine 
with a knife ; put a little vinegar, butter, pepper and 
salt, into a skillet, let them get hot ; put in your cab- 
bage, and when heated thoroughly, add a little cream, 
if you have it, and dish up. It is nice without cream. 
—11 



106 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

To JBahe Beans. 

Boil the beans, (of course the quantity must be reg- 
ulated by the size of the family,) say one quart in two 
or three quarts of water, till they begin to crack 
open ; put in a teaspoonful of soda while they are boil- 
ing; when ready to bake, drain off all the water in 
which they were cooked ; then put them in a pan large 
enough to hold them, and a piece of nice, fat salted 
pork which will weigh one or two pounds ; score the 
pork across the top and settle it in the middle of the 
beans;* cover all with water, and two tablespoonsful of 
molasses or sugar, and bake in a moderate oven two 
hours. Do not forget the sweetening, or you will not 
have Yankee baked beans. 



Com. 

Corn, for boiling, should be full grown, but young 
and tender. When the grains become yellow, it is too 
old. Strip off the leaves and all the silk; some leave 
the inner leaves and pull them up over the corn before 
putting it in the water ; have plenty of water ; add salt, 
and let the pot boil briskly for half an hour. 



Hominy. 

Wash the hominy clean, through two or three 
waters ; then put it into a pot, allowing two quarts of 
water to one quart of hominy ; let it boil slowly three or 
four hours. When done, take a portion up in a dish, 
dress with butter, and serve hot. The rest can be put 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 107 

away, to keep cool, and be used the next day; add 
salt while it is boiling. Hominy is very nice fried as 
a breakfast dish. 



Cucumbers. 

Have them fresh gathered ; pare them and lay them 
in cold water till near dinner; slice them very thin; 
pepper, salt, and vinegar to the taste. 



Salsify, 

Scrape the salsify roots, and wash them in cold 
water; parboil them, and if preferred, cut in small 
slices and fry. The nicest way is to boil tender, and 
add salt, pepper, butter and cream. If exposed to 
to the air it will turn blackish. 



Com on the Cob. 

Corn to boil should be young and tender; remove 
the husks, and carefully take off all the silk; have a 
pot of boiling water salted sufficient for the corn, 
and boil from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an 
hour, according to the age of the corn. 

ANOTHER WAY TO COOK CORN. 

After removing silk and husks, cut the corn from 
the cob, but do not cut too closely into the cob, but 
take a knife and scrape it down ; cook it well till all 
the water is cooked out, then dress it with pepper, salt 
and butter. It is also good to cook in this way, ad- 



108 Illinois OOOS hook. 

ding tomatoes, and is a very nice dish baked in the 
stow, adding butter and bread crumbs as you pul it in 
the pan. i 

( >elery, 

I 'irk over and wash celery well, and let it. lie ill 
cold water till time to put it im the table, then wipe 
each piece dry. Send it to the tabic in a celery glass, 
andeal with salt only; or, as many prefer, chop fine, 
and use a salad dressing. 



To lloil Onions. 

Take off the tops and tails and peel them; put on 
water sufficient to cover them; throw in a little salt; 
boil till perfectly done; then pour off the water and 
throw in a little sweet milk to whiten them; take up 

and dress with butter and pepper. 



Onions Fried. 

Peel and slice your onions, and put them into a 
skillet with very hot lard in it, cover tight; or, throw 
them in with a beet' steak as you are frying it. They 
are very fine in this way. 



Potato Cakes, 

Take two pounds of very mealy boiled potatoes, 
mash them very fine with a little salt, mix them with 
two pounds of tlonr, add milk enough to make this into 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 109 

dough, beating it with a spoon, and put a little yeast. 
Set it before the fire to rise, and when it has risen 
divide it into cakes the size of a muffin, and bake 
them. These cakes may be cut open and buttered hot. 
They are particularly nice. 



Cold Peas, 

Mash them; boil cream, and thicken it with the 
peas ; add a little butter, pepper and salt to the taste. 
Beans can be used in the same mamier. 



Cold Corn, 

Grate it, and make it into cakes, with egg and a 
little flour; fry in hot hard a light brown. 



Green Corn Pudding for Meat, 

Grate about twelve large, full ears of sweet corn, to 
this add one quart of sweet milk, one quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, four well beaten eggs, as much 
pepper and salt as is necessary to season it well; stir 
well together and bake in a well greased pudding dish. 
This is an excellent dish to eat with meat. 



Ef/f/ Plant, 

The best directions are as follows : Cut the plant 
across into thin slices, lay them in salt over night; in 
the morning take them from the brine, wash them and 
wipe each piece dry, and sprinkle finely powdered 



110 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



crackers over both sides of the slices ; then fry brown 
(not black) in just enough grease to keep them from 
sticking to the griddle. Some use corn meal instead of 
crackers. A friend says : Cut them in slices nearly 
an inch thick; sprinkle on salt, and let them lay one 
on the -other all night, with a light weight on the top. 
In the morning drain off the brine, roll in flour and fry 
in hot butter, and they can't be beat. 



COOKIN.G EGGS. 



Omelet with Cheese. 

Beat six eggs very light; add two tablespoonsful of 
cream, butter the size of a walnut, a little chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and two ounces of grated cheese. 
Beat all well together, and pour into a pan in which a 
small piece of butter is melting ; let it cook until of a 
light brown, then fold it over and dish for the table. 
Shake the pan while the omelet is cooking. 



Omelet. 

Three teaspoonsful milk to one egg, beat the eggs 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. Ill 

light, then pour into a pan in which a little butter is 
melted hot, lifting the bottom with a knife so the softer 
parts can run in; cook three or four minutes. Salt 
to taste. 



Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Those who like hard boiled eggs, and want them to 
digest well, should boil them hard for thirty minutes, 
and they are then tit to eat. I thought this out of rea- 
son till I tried it myself; the eggs thus cooked are 
mealy and delightful. 

Egg Omelet, (Very Fine.) 

Take six eggs for each omelet, beat the yelks and 
whites separately ; salt and pepper the yelks, and beat 
till they are very light; have the whites beaten stiff; 
have a long handled frying pan, or one that flares out 
at the edge ; put in about a tablespoonful of butter, 
have it hot; put in the yelks, and quickly put in the 
whites ; stir together till it is well mixed, and in a few 
moments turn one half up over the other and put into 
an oblong dish, and serve as hot as possible. This is 
a most excellent omelet, and is very nice with a little 
onion chopped very line fried in the butter quickly be- 
fore putting in the egg. This omelet must be made 
very quickly. 

Poached Eggs. 

Have a skillet with water boiling, a little vinegar 



112 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



added; break in the eggs carefully; dress with butter, 
pepper and salt. 

Pickled Eggs. 

The esrffs should be boiled hard, and then divested 
of their shells; when cold, put them in ajar, and pour 
over them (sufficient to cover them) vinegar in which 
has been boiled the usual spices for pickling. Tie the 
jar down tight; do not make many at a time, es- 
pecially in warm weather; in winter, first pour the 
vinegar over red cabbage, and when it is a bright 
color pour it off and strain it over the eggs. It is 
nice to have a jar of white and a jar of the red eggs, 
they look handsome mixed on the table. 



To Keep Eggs. 

To four quarts air-slacked lime, put two tablespoons- 
ful cream tartar, two of salt, and four quarts cold 
water. Put fresh eggs into a stoiie jar, and pour this 
mixture over them. This will keep nine dozen, and if 
fresh when laid down, they will keep many months. 
If the water settles away so as to leave the upper 
layer uncovered, add more water. Cover close, and 
keep in a cool place. 

Eggs Plain Boiled. 

This being beyond question the most popular way 
of serving eggs, we must commence by giving it in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 113 

the approved French method. Get ready a saucepan 
of boiling water, place in it some fresh eggs, immedi- 
ately remove the saucepan from the lire, put on the 
lid, and let the eggs remain exactly four minutes. 
Take them up, and serve them, while warm, in a dish. 
The eggs, if so preferred, may be put into cold water- 
over a quick tire, and when the water comes to a boil, 
they are done. 



Eggs a V Ardennaise. 

Break the shells of a dozen eggs. Separate the 
yelks from the whites, and keep each yelk by itself. 
Beat the whites to a froth ; add to them a little salt, 
pepper, and thick cream. Four this into a well but- 
tered, deep dish, and arrange the yelks upon the top. 
Fut the dish into a gentle oven, and, when set, serve 
them hot. 



Eggs sur le Plat. 

Heat some butter upon a tin or pewter dish; care- 
fully break into it as many eggs as you think suf- 
ficient, arranging them neatly; season with salt and 
pepper; add a few teaspoonsful of good thick cream, 
and place the dish for six minutes over a clear tire, 
and serve directly. 

Buttered JEggs. 

Take three eggs, beat them up well, then add t<> 
them a gill of sweet milk. Place some butter (about 



114 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the size of a large walnut) at the bottom of pan, pour 
the mixture into it, and boil until quite thick. Pour it 
upon buttered toast, and grate some ham or beef 
over it. 



JEgg Balls. 

Take the yelks of six hard boiled eggs ; pound them 
in a mortar, together with a little salt, one dessert- 
spoonful of flour, and a small quantity of pepper. 
When a smooth, but stiff paste is formed, add as much 
raw yelk of egg as will serve to mix it of the con- 
sistency required. Make it into balls, poach them, 
and serve them upon buttered toast, or any sauce ap- 
proved of. 



BREAD MAKING AND YEAST. 



Good bread depends as much on having good yeast, 
as on having good flour. The cheapest flour in the 
end is always the best There is no one thing on 
which the health of a family so much depends as on 
good, well-baked bread. Biscuits made of baking 
powder, or soda and cream tartar, are, when made 
right, very nice, and often it is very convenient to 
make them, but they are not so healthy as biscuit 
made of good yeast. In order to secure good bread, 
great care should be taken to make the yeast a special 
object. There are a great variety of ways of making 
good yeast. I will give a number of receipts, all hav- 
ing been tried and found good 



Hop Yeast. 

Take a good handful of fresh hops, pour boiling 
water, let it boil till the water is sufficiently strong of 
the hops ; have sifted flour enough to make a batter, 
not too thin, by straining the boiling hop water over 
it; let it cool; if you have a quart, put half teacupful 
of white sugar, a spoonful of salt and a teacupful of 
good, fresh yeast. Set it away to rise. When you 
wish to make your bread, take flour enough to make a 



116 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sponge sufficient to make the amount of dough you 
wish, wet it to a batter with warm (not hot) water; 
have three or four well mashed potatoes and a teacup- 
ful of the hop yeast; let this rise well, and then 
make up your bread ; add salt ; work your bread well, 
but not too stiff. When you make out your rolls, give 
them ample time to rise well. 



Grated Potato Yeast. 

Take two or three potatoes, if not large, two if good 
size; grate them and pour boiling water on them, and 
set it in a vessel on the stove, and stir like starch 
till it is well cooked and clear; while it is hot stir in 
flour sufficient to make a strong batter ; when cool, if 
too thick, thin it with the water in which your potatoes 
have been boiled, (if they have been peeled ;) add a 
teacupful of good yeast; let it rise well, and it is lit 
for use. It is well to make your yeast, or sponge, for 
bread, near dinner time, in order to have the potato 
water to put into it. 

Bottled or Jug Yeast. 

(MRS. ZIMMERMAN.) 

Yeast that will Keep Six Months. — Take ten or 
twelve good sized ripe potatoes, wash them well and 
put them to boil with the skins on in a gallon of 
water, boil till done ; take them out of the water, and 
wash them while hot, (peeling them;) then take two 
good handsful of hops and boil well in the potato 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 117 

water, then strain the water over the mashed potatoes ; 
add one cupful of brown sugar and one of salt, and a 
half cupful of ginger; boil the hops through one or 
two waters, to get all the strength out of them ; let it 
cool; add a half pint of the same kind of yeast or 
of baker's yeast; after standing in ajar 24 hours, put 
in bottles or in a jug, and cork tight ; set in the cellar 
for use. One large spoonful is enough for one loaf of 
bread. Make sufficient sponge to make the bread ; 
add your yeast, and let it lighten; it will be salt 
enough. 



Bottled Yeast. 

Thicken two quarts of water with line flour, four or 
five spoonsful; wet the flour with a little water till it 
is smooth and free from lumps, boil near half an hour, 
sweeten with half a pound brown sugar; when near 
cold, put into it four spoonsful of fresh yeast ; put it 
into a jug, shake well together; let it stand one day 
to ferment near the Are, without being corked. There 
will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured 
off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. 
Take, always, four spoonsful of the old to ferment the 
next quantity, keeping it always on hand. 



Potato Yeast, with Mashed Potatoes. 

Boil well, and mash six or seven good sized pota- 
toes; stir in flour while they are hot, and save the 
water in which they were boiled to thin it with ; add a 



118 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

little salt, a half cupful white sugar, and a teacupful 
of good, fresh yeast. I have learned from experience 
that it is a piece of economy to make yeast near din- 
ner time, or make it so you can use the water in which 
your potatoes have been boiled for dinner. You can 
boil enough for dinner and your yeast, thus saving the 
water, which is the life of good bread. For buns, 
English tea cakes and Spanish buns, I always use the 
yeast made of the grated potatoes. It must be made 
and used fresh. Bread and rolls of all kinds must be 
watched carefully, kept warm but not hot; bread 
should never be allowed to be heated while it is rising. 
It is the care given to bread from the making of the 
yeast, till it is taken out of the oven, that gives success 
in bread making. 

Sally Limn, 

One quart flour, 

Piece of butter size of an egg, 

Three tablespoon sful sugar, (white, if prefer- 
red,) 

Two eggs, 

Two teacupsful milk, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

A little salt. 

Stir the cream tartar, salt, and sugar into the flour ; 

add the eggs without beating, the butter melted, and 

one cup of the milk. Dissolve the soda in the other 

cup of milk, and stir all together. Bake in three pans, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 119 



the size of a breakfast plate, fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Into one quart of flour, stir two teaspoonsful cream 
tartar and a little salt, add two tablespoonful rich 
cream or one of butter, dissolve one teaspoonful soda 
in a little hot water; mix with milk soft. 



Bread Cake. 

( MRS. N. W. BROADWELL. ) 

One pint of bread sponge, 

One pint of brown sugar, 

Half a pint of butter, 

Two eggs, 

Spices to suit the taste. 
Raisins, currents and citron, one pound of each, (or 
more or less to suit the convenience,) the more fruit, 
of course, the richer; stir in flour enough to make it 
stiff enough to drop clear from the spoon ; one tea- 
spoonful of soda; put it in pans, and let it rise as you 
would bead ; bake slowly. This is nice without fruit. 



Snails. 

Make a sponge as for bread ; add to one quart of the 
sponge — 

Two eggs, 

One teacupful of sugar. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, 



120 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cinnamon and nutmeg, (if it suits the taste.) 
Beat all well together; let this lighten well; then 
work in flour enough to make, as for any other rusk, 
(not too stiff;) set it where it will be warm enough to 
rise quickly ; when thoroughly light take a piece of the 
dough, dredge flour on your breadboard and roll the 
dough out as for biscuits ; then cut it into strips about 
an inch and a half wide ; butter the top of each strip, 
sprinkle a little cinnamon and sugar on the butter, and 
then with the hands roll each strip till it is as large as 
an ordinary biscuit ; grease a pan ; set these endwise 
in the pan and set to lighten ; then bake slowly, they 
resemble snails. The remainder of the dough can be 
made out in the same way. Some make a portion of 
the dough in this way, and roll the rest and cut out or 
make out with the hand. Rolling these snail fashion 
makes them very nice; the butter makes them flakey 
and easy to break open. 



Soufle Biscuit. 

Cut up four ounces of butter in a quart of flour; 
make it into a smooth paste with new milk ; knead it 
well, add a little salt, and roll out as thin as paper; 
cut out the cakes with a tumbler, and bake quickly. 
Serve hot. 



Cream Cakes. 

Beat three eggs very light, stir them into a quart of 
cream, alternately with a quart of flour, and add one 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 121 

wine glass of strong yeast, (good potato yeast is best,) 
and a little salt. Cover the batter and set it near the 
fire to rise. When quite light, stir into it a large 
tablespoonful of butter that has been warmed (not 
melted) by the tire. Bake the cakes in muffin rings, 
and send to table hot. Split with your fingers and 
butter. A knife put into them makes them sodden. 



To Make Yeast. 

Five large potatoes, one quart of boiling water, one 
cup of brown sugar, one cup of yeast. Boil your po- 
tatoes, and sift them; add your sugar, when milk- 
warm, your yeast; half a cup is sufficient for two 
loaves. 



Common Bread Cake. 

Take the quantity of a loaf from the dough, when 
making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces 
of butter, two of sugar, and eight of currants. Warm 
the butter in a teacupful of good milk. By the addi- 
tion of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two, 
you may make the cake better. A teacupful of raw 
cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a 
pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. 



Milk Yeast. 

In case you should get out of yeast, and are in a 
hurry, make milk yeast. Take one pint of new milk, 
one teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of flour stir- 
—12 



L22 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

red in, stand it in a kettle of water by the stove, and 
keep it lukewarm all the time. When very light, add 
Lukewarm water, make into loaves or biscuit, and let 
them rise by the lire before cooking. 



Buns. 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful sugar, 
Half cup of yeast. 
Half pint milk. 
Make it stiff with flour; add, if you like, nutmeg. 



"Peculiars." or Graham Puffs. 

To one pint of Graham flour, add one pint of milk 
and one egg. Stir in the flour slowly, till it becomes a 
smooth (not thick) batter. Use no soda, nor yeast. 
Bake immediately. The best bakepans are of cast 
iron, with twelve sockets which must flrst be heated, 
then greased, filled and instantly returned to the oven. 
If new, the pans should be flrst scoured with soap 
and sand, then greased, heated and rewashed. Puffs 
may also be made without the egg, with milk and 
water, or all water. They may also be made of rye 
flour or corn meal. The corn meal requires an egg. 
This receipt is sufficient for twenty-four puffs. 



Batter Biscuit* 

Sift one quart of flour in a pan, and make a hollow 
in the centre large enough to admit a pint of milk and 



nxoroif ooei book. 1 93 

one pint ofyeaai; mix into a sponge, set it to raise; in 
the morning add one pound of melted butter, and 
knead in as much flour as will, with another pint, of 
warm milk make soft dough; make out the biscuit in 
pans to rige; when sufficiently li^rnt, bake in a well 
heated oven. 



Husk. 

One quart flour, 
One pint milk, 

One-quarter pound of butter framed in the milk, 
Two well-beaten eggs, 

One teaspoonful maC6 or cinammon. 
One wine #lans and a half of fresh yea~t. 
Mix well and ,-ef away to rise: divide into piecei of 

equal size; knead each piece separately, and put them 
into a pan to rise again. When quite light, hake in a 
moderate oven. 

Dutch Rolls* 

( )ne quart flour, 
Two egga, 

Half pint of milk, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

One ^ill yeae! 

Real the eggs, add the milk to them with the inched 

butter; pour this into the flour, having first put in the 
yeast. It must he mixed softer than bread, and if not 
moist enough, add more milk. Let it ri-r- before 
baking. 



1-4 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Raised Muffins. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in one pint of 

milk, 
A little salt, 
Two eggs, 
Half gill yeast. 
Flour, to make a thick batter. 



Rye Drop Cakes. 

One egg. 
Two cupsful rye, 
Two cupsful flour, 
Half a cupful sugar, 
A teaspoonful salt, 
A teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half a teaspoonful soda, 
A teaspoonful melted butter, 
A cupful and a half of milk. 
Drop from a spoon on a flat pan, and bake half an 
hour. 



German Waffles. 

Warm a quart of milk, cut up and soften in it one- 
quarter pound of butter. Beat eight eggs, and stir in 
with one-half pound of sifted flour, two tablespoonsful 
of good, strong yeast; set it in a warm place to rise. 
When well risen it is time to bake in greased waffle 
irons. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 125 

JPop Overs. 

( ELLA MOREAN, ST. LOUIS. ) 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teacupful flour, 

One egg. 
Beat till very light, and have well greased your 
muffin pans and drop them in ; set them in the oven. 
It takes but a few minutes, they will puff up, and are 
done. 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes, 

To one quart thick, sour milk, stir in wheat flour 
until it is quite a batter, add a little salt. When the 
griddle is hot enough, dissolve one teaspoonful of 
soda in a little hot water; stir it into the batter quickly 
and bake the cakes. Soda should never be put into 
any kind of cakes or corn bread until it is just ready 
to go into the oven, as the effervescence takes place, 
2nd if it is put in before, its effect is in a great 
measure lost. 



Muffins. 

One teacupful yeast, 
Three eggs, 
One teacupful flour, 
One pint sweet milk, 
A little salt. - 
Let it rise until it is quite light, and bake in well 
greased muffin rings. 



126 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Buckwheat Cakes, 

To a quart of buckwheat flour an even teaspoonful 
of salt ; stir in warm water till it is the consistency of 
thin batter; beat it thoroughly, add half a cupful of 
good yeast; set the batter where it will be a little 
warm, if made over night. A spoonful of soda dis- 
solved in hot water and stirred in in the morning, 



improves them very much. 



Buckwheat Cakes with Sour Milk, 

This can be made at any time, and at a moment's 
notice. Take your buckwheat and mix it with good, 
sour milk, a little salt, a teacupful of indian meal; mix 
it just stiff enough for cakes; add a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in warm water, stir in and bake. 



Corn Meal Cakes, 

Take one or two eggs, according to the quantity 
you wish to make; beat well; add salt, then sour 
milk, and next your corn meal; beat all together. 
Dissolve a spoonful soda in hot water, and stir in well. 
Have your griddle hot and well-greased with a piece 
of salt pork, if you have it. 



Waffles, 

Have three eggs, well beaten, sour milk and a little 
salt; stir in flour till it is sufficiently thick, a very 
little thicker than for griddle cakes. Dissolve soda in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 127 

hot water, stir it in the batter, and beat all well to- 
gether. Have yonr waffle irons well heated on both 
sides before putting the batter in ; bake them a nice, 
light brown. 

Brown Bread, 

( MRS. ELIZA M'DONALD. ) 

Make a sponge at night as for any other bread ; in 
the morning sift enough flour to make two small 
loaves ; add half a cupful of molasses and the same 
of brown sugar, and a little lard ; work well ; put into 
pans to lighten. 

French Brown Bread. 

Half a teacupful molasses, 
One pint Graham flour, 
One pint corn meal, 
One pint hop yeast sponge. 
Add sweet milk to make a stiff batter, like mush. 
Let it stand till light. Bake slowly. 



Steamed Brown Bread. 

( MRS. MACKENZIE.) 

Two teacupsful and a half sweet milk, 
One teacupful sour milk. 
Three teacupsful corn meal, 
Two-thirds of teacupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teacupful flour, 
A little salt. 



128 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Steam three hours; then put into the oven ten min- 
utes to form a crust. Eat it fresh and cut it in the 
pan, it is apt to crumble. Grease the pan well before 
putting it in to steam. 



Boston Brown Bread* 

One quart Graham flour, 

One tablespoonful molasses, 

One tablespoonful lard, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One tea spoonful soda, 

Milk to make a tolerable stiff batter, 

A little salt. 

English Tea Cakes. 

(miss snape. ) 
Half pint sweet milk, 
Half pound butter, (melted in the milk,) 
Two tablespoonsful of sugar, 
One pint of sponge of potato yeast, 
Four eggs, 
Flour sufficient to make it into soft dough 



Boiled Brown Bread. 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

Four teacupsful corn meal, 
Two teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful molasses, 
Four teacupsful sour milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 129 

One teaspoon! ul soda, 

A little salt. 
Boil four hours in a tight covered tin bucket in 
water kept at a boiling rate. When done, the 
bucket can be set in a hot oven for ten minutes. 
Grease the bucket well. 



French Rolls. 

One pint flour, and make of it a thick batter with 
warm water; to this add: 

One well beaten egg, 
One tablespoonful lard, (or butter,) 
A little salt, 

One teaspoonful white sugar, dissolved in a 
teacupful potato yeast. 
Make this when risen into a dough by adding more 
flour; let this rise again and make into rolls; let it 
rise in the pans, and then bake. 



English Buns. 

( MISS SNAPE. ) 

One quart potato sponge, 

One pint new milk, 

Half cup white sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

A little salt. 
Flour enough to make a dough, (not so stiff as com- 
mon dough;) cut out large, after they are light; let 
them rise in the pan ; wet with sugar and milk before 
taking out of oven. 



130 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Breakfast Biscuit. 

Sift one quart flour into a pan, and make a hole in 
the middle ; pour in not quite a pint of hot milk into 
which a tablespoonful of butter has been dissolved; 
stir this into the flour gradually, and when lukewarm 
add one well ' beaten egg, two-thirds of a cupful of 
good potato yeast, into which a teaspoonful of sugar 
and a little salt has been dissolved. 



Sally Lunn without Yeast. 

One pint of flour, 

One egg, 

One tablespoonful melted butter, 

One teacupful of sugar, 

One teacupful of sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful of soda, 

Two teaspoonsful of cream tartar. 
Beat the butter, egg, and sugar, well together ; add 
a little salt ; then put in flour and milk till all is in ; bake 
in tins in a quick oven ; split open and butter each 
side, and lay one piece on the other. 



French Tea Biscuit. 

(MRS. M. SIMPSON.) 

Take bread dough, about as much as would make a 
moderate sized loaf; a lump of butter, or lard, as large 
as an egg, two eggs, and a tablespoonful of sugar; 
mix well, and let rise. About an hour before tea, roll 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 131 

and cut an inch thick with a biscuit cutter; then 
spread the top with butter and fold double; let them 
rise the hour, and when light, bake twenty minutes. 



Rusk, 

( MRS. EVA CRAVEN. ) 

Melt half a pound of butter and mix it well with 
two-thirds of a pint of milk, flour enough to make a 
stiff batter; add three or four tablespoonsful of good 
yeast, and set in a warm place to rise; when light, 
beat two eggs with half a pound of powdered white 
sugar ; work into the batter with the hand ; add a little 
salt, (unless the butter is very salty,) and a teaspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, and flour enough to make a 
stiff dough. Let it lighten thoroughly, make out with 
the hand, and when light, have ready one yelk of an 
egg, a little sugar and milk, well beaten ; as you take 
them out of the oven wet the top with it. 



Mice Com Bread. 

One pint well cooked rice, 

One pint corn meal, 

One ounce butter, 

One pint milk, 

Two eggs, beaten light. 
Then add the milk and melted butter; beat the rice 
till smooth ; add the egg and milk, and lastly add the 
corn meal ; beat all well together until light, and bake 
in shallow pans. 



1B2 ILLINOIS OOOK BOOK. 

Ha i serf Muffins. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in one pint of milk, 
two eggs, half a gill of yeast; flour to make a thick 
batter. 



Johnny Cake. 

Two teacupsful Indian meal, 
Half a teacupful flour, 
Two teacupsful sweet milk, 
One tablespoonful molasses, 
One teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in a hot oven. Will be light. 



Spanish Buns. 

Half a pint of rich milk and half a pound of butter ; 
let the butter warm in the milk, but not melt to oil ; 
stir it through the milk, and set it away to cool. 
Beat four eggs well, and add to this milk, with half a 
pound of flour; stir in half a nutmeg, and two wine- 
glassesful of good, fresh yeast; stir all well, and add 
very gradually half a pound of white sugar. If this 
is not put in by degrees, the buns will be heavy ; add, 
also, by degrees, another quarter of a pound of flour, 
making three-fourths of a pound in all. Butter a 
pan, put in the buns, and set them in a warm place to 
rise. The time required for rising will depend a good 
deal on the quality of the yeast. They can be made 
out with the hand, or cut with a rather large cutter. 
When they are light and covered with bubbles, put in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 133 

a moderate oven and bake. Just before taking out of 
the oven, take a small, soft brush, or piece of muslin, 
and rub them over with a little egg and milk, with a 
little sugar, which will give them a nice gloss. If 
made according to directions, they are very nice. 



Light Cakes. 

To three-quarters of a po.und of fine flour, add one- 
half pint of lukewarm milk, mix in three spoonsful of 
light yeast, cover it over, and set it by the tire for half 
an hour to rise Work in the paste four ounces of 
sugar, and the same quantity of butter; make into tea 
cakes with as little flour as possible, and bake them in 
a quick oven. 



Hominy Muffins. 

Having washed a pint of small hominy through two 
or three waters, pour boiling water on it, cover and let 
it soak for several hours. Then put it into a thick 
saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and let it 
boil until soft enough to mash; drain it, and mix it 
well with a pint of white corn meal or wheat flour, a 
little salt, and a pint and one-half of milk in which 
two tablespoonsful of butter have been melted. 
When the butter is nearly cold add four tablespoons- 
ful of yeast, cover it, and set it in a warm place, until 
very light, with the surface covered with bubbles. 
Butter some muffin rings, set them on a hot griddle, 
pour into each a portion of the mixture and bake them 



134 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

brown on both sides. Send them to table accordingly 
as they are done, pull them open with your lingers and 
butter them quickly. 

Tomato Toast. 

This is a nice breakfast dish; prepare the tomatoes, 
and stew them as directed. Toast a slice of light bread 
for each member of the family, and spread the stewed 
tomatoes evenly on each slice. If any is left, pour it 
over the whole; serve immediately. 



Little Milk Cake for Breakfast. 

Place on a table or slab — 

One pound of flour, 

Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

Two teaspoonsful of sugar, 

Three teaspoonsful of fresh yeast, 

Two ounces of butter, 

One egg. 
Have some new milk, pom* in a gill, mix all to- 
gether, adding more milk to form a nice dough ; then 
put some flour in a cloth, put the dough in, and lay it 
in a warm place; let it rise for about two hours, cut it 
in pieces the size of eggs, roll them even, and mark 
the top with a sharp knife; egg over and bake quick; 
serve hot or cold. 



New England Pancakes. 

Mix a pint of milk, Ave spoonsful of tine flour, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 135 

seven yelks and four whites of eggs, and a very little 
salt'; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between 
each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight 
at once. 



Fritters, 

Make any plain batter as for pancakes; put 
pared apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, 
and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or 
sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable 
change, Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may 
be made into fritters. 



Spanish Fritters. 

Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as 
thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in 
some cream or milk, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinna- 
mon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice 
brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. 



Com Oysters. 

One pint grated sweet corn. 
Half a cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful salt, 
Half a teaspoonful black pepper, 
Two-thirds of a cupful of flour, 
One egg. 
Beat up and fry like griddle cakes. 



136 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Potato Fritters, 

Boil two large potatoes, scrape them line ; beat four 
y elks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above 
one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a 
squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this bat- 
ter half an hour at least; will be extremely light. 



French Toast. 

One loaf of stale bakers' break ; take off the crust ; 
cut in slices ; one pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt. 
Have ready a hot griddle, well buttered ; then dip the 
bread in the custard and fry immediately on the 
griddle. To be eaten with a rich sauce. 



German Waffles, 

Warm a quart of milk, cut up and soften in it one- 
quarter pound of butter. Beat eight eggs, and stir in 
with one-half pound of sifted flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of good, strong yeast ; set it in a warm place to 
rise. When well risen, it is time to bake in greased 
waffle irons. 



Yankee Waffles, 

One quart milk,f 

Six eggs, . 

One-quarter pound butter, 

A large gill of yeast, 3 

Salt. 



[IXIKOIf 0001 hook. \'.'>1 

Flour, to rf j;ik*i a batter as thick as for griddle cake . 

Bake in waffle iron , Long again a i you would need 
to bake them on a griddle. 



Hye Drop Cakes* 

One pint sour milk or buttermilk, 

Three egg 

One scant teaspoonfu] soda, 

A little salt 
Meal to make a batter that will spread a little, hut 
not run. Drop with a spoon into round tins, and bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Flour Griddle Cakes, 

Pour egg 

One quart rnilk. 

A little salt, 

One tablespooniul of* butter, 

One ^iJI yea t. 

Flour to make a batter as thick as for buckwheat 
cakes. Raise over night, and if soar, add a little wda 
in the morning. 

Graham a cms. 
These must be baked in iron pans, each tittle pan 

partitioned hv it-eJf. a- they will not rise if baked in u 

mass. Remove the cream from iweet milk, and for a 
sufficient quantity for two pans, add one egg and Bait; 
stir in the flour slowly lintil somewhat thicker than 



138 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pancake batter; beat thoroughly, as it will add to their 
lightness ; have the oven very hot, as they must bake 
in iifteen or twenty minutes, or they will not be light; 
place the pans on the stove, and when hot, butter, and 
with the spoon, drop each little pan full; place im- 
mediately in the oven. Carry to table hot. Cold 
gems steamed or warmed are nearly as good as when 
fresh. They should be on every table, for even 
dyspeptics can eat them with impunity. 



Potato Fritters, 

Three eggs, 
One quart of milk, 
A little flour and salt. 
Thicken with mashed potatoes. Drop in table- 
spoonsful into boiling hot lard, and fry a light brown. 



Fried Bread. 

Take cold light bread, (baker's bread is best,) cut it 
in slices about an inch thick, pour a little sweet milk 
over each piece, to soften it; do this just as you are 
ready to fry the bread, or it will be too soft if it soaks in 
the milk; have a batter made of one egg, a little milk 
and flour, salt, and a small quantity of baking powder ; 
beat this till light; it should be about the consistency 
of thick cream. Have a frying pan with hot lard in 
it, and dip each piece of the bread into the batter, 
and cover both sides with it, and then fry it quickly ; 
be careful not to have the bread too wet with the milk 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 139 

or it will break. Each piece should go the table 
whole. It is a splendid breakfast dish. 

Beat Biscuit, 

Two quarts of flour, 
Half pint lard, (well rubbed together,) 
One pint of cold water, 
One tablespoonful of salt. 
Mix well, knead, and beat with a rolling pin till 
smooth and light. 

Kentucky Yeast for French Rolls. 

Boil six large potatoes ; mash them line in the water 
in which they were boiled; add a small teacupful of 
sugar, a teacupful of yeast, let it rise in a moderately 
warm place. Take a quart of flour, a lump of lard 
the size of a hen's egg, one teacupful of the above 
yeast ; mix with water ; make into rolls ; let them rise 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Kentucky Buttermilk Yeast. 

Boil a quart of buttermilk, throw in a teaspoonful 
salt; take from the fire and let it cool; stir in a suf- 
ficient quantity of flour to make the consistency of 
common yeast, put in a half teacupful of yeast; let it 
rise in a moderately warm place. Take a quart of 
flour, a piece of butter or lard the size of a hen's egg', 
mix it entirely with the yeast, work well ; set it to rise, 
work over; make into rolls; rise and bake. 



140 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Boiled Bread. 

Four cupsful of sour milk or cold water, 
One cupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Four cupsful of indian meal, 
Two cupsful of flour, 
One teaspoonful salt. 
Steam four hours. 



Graham Flour Cakes. 

One cupful sweet milk, 
Two eggs, beaten light, 
A small lump of butter, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two tablespoon sful molasses, 
A little salt, 
Graham flour. 
Mix well and soft enough to drop into greased 
muffin pans. 

Mush Muffins. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Four tablespoonsful mush, 
One tablespoonful lard or butter, 
A little salt, 
One quart milk, 

Six eggs, beaten seperately, the whites very 
light, and added last. 
Flour to make the consistency of pound cake. 
Bake in muffin pans quickly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 141 



JBvown Bread. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Scald one teacupful corn meal ; when cold, stir in 
one cupful molasses, one pint yeast; stiffen with un- 
bolted flour ; mix it soft, it will look rough ; it should 
not be kneaded, but mixed as soft as possible, and 
when put in the pan to rise, smooth it over with the 
hand. Let it rise, and bake slowly. 



Milk Biscuit, 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Two pounds flour, 

A quarter of a pound lard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One pint milk, 

One teacupful yeast. 
Put salt into the flour, then rub in the lard ; add the 
milk and yeast, mixing well with a spoon as the dough 
is soft. Set it to rise at 10 o'clock in the morning; at 
3 p. m. stir well with a spoon; at 5 p. m. roll them out 
with just sufficient flour to prevent sticking to the 
board; cut, put them in pans to rise. Bake twenty 
minutes. 



Sally Lunn, 



Seven cupsful flour, 
Three eggs, 
One pint milk, 



142 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half cupful butter, 

One cupful yeast. 
Mix well, and set to rise for supper; roll thin, put 
in pie pans; when done split them open and butter 
each half, laying one upon the other. 



Cheap Waffles. 

Two pints flour, 
Two pints sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful lard, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teacupful butter milk, 
One teacupful mush. 
Salt to the taste ; have irons hot, and bake quickly. 



Corn Bread. 

One quart of corn meal ; pour boiling water over it, 
just enough to wet it through, beat it well; then beat 
three eggs separately, and add to the meal, when cool, 
a little salt, and a tablespoonful of lard; grease a pan 
well, and put the dough in large spoonsful an inch 
apart. 



Good Corn Bread. 

One quart corn meal, 
One pint sour milk, 
Three eggs, 

One small teaspoonful of soda. 
Take a part of the meal, and enough milk to wet 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 143 

the meal ; then put in the yelks of the eggs and beat 
till light; add the rest of the milk and meal alter- 
nately; dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of boiling 
water, and stir in; add salt, and a tablespoonful of 
melted lard, have it hot, and stir in briskly; grease 
your pan, and have it hot before pouring in the meal. 



Cream Pancakes, 

Mix the yelks of two eggs with half a pint of good 
cream and a very little sugar, flour enough to make a 
thin batter; beat the eggs till very light; add a little 
cream; then flour till free from lumps, and beat to a 
smooth paste ; add sugar, and the rest of the cream ; 
have your griddles well-greased and hot/ fry the cakes 
as thin as possible. Send to the table hot. 



Quire of Paper Pancakes. 

Beat sixteen eggs till very light; one quart sweet 
milk; take a half pound sifted flour, a little sugar, and 
half a pound melted butter, half a grated nutmeg, and 
two gills of wine; add a little of the milk to the eggs; 
then the flour, till all is in; beat till free from lumps, 
and perfectly smooth and very light; then add nutmeg, 
wine, butter, and the rest of the milk, a teaspoon ful of 
salt. Have a long-handled frying pan; grease well, 
have it hot; put in but little batter, let it run all over 
the pan and very thin; they must be cooked very 
lightly. Some do not turn them; if turned, shake the 
pan three or four times and tip it upward, and if 



144 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

expert, the cake will turn over. Lay one on the other 
as they are cooked. Eat hot. 



Crackers. 

One cupful and a half of butter, 
Two cupsful and a half of sugar, 
Four eggs, 

Three tablespoonsful rose water, 
One table spoonful cinnamon. 
Roll thin, and bake. 



Cor n Cake. 

Three cupsful of meal, 
Half cupful of flour. 
Mix with sweet milk and water; let it stand all 
night, in the morning add — 

One teaspoonful of soda, 
One tablespoonful of sugar, 
One tablespoonful melted butter, 
A little salt. 



Beaten Biscuit. 

To make good beaten biscuits, the proportions are- 
Two quarts of flour, 
One tablespoon oval-full of lard, 
A good spoonful of salt. 
Mix them as dry as possible, just using water 
enough to make a hard dough ; then work them well, 
and beat them with a rolling pin; work them well, 
beat again, make in biscuits, and bake slowly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 145 



French Rolls. 

Warm a pint of new milk with two tablespoonsful 
butter, a little salt; when cool, add one pound of flour, 
one egg, well-beaten, one tablespoonful yeast; beat all 
well together ; let it rise ; when very light, make in 
rolls and bake. 



Brown Bread. 

Three cupsful corn meal, 
Three cupsful rye flour, 
One cupful wheat flour, 
Two cupsful molasses, 
Three cupsful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
A little salt. Bake. 

Muffins. 

One quart of flour, 
Half teacupful of potato yeast, 
Two eggs, 

One teaspoonful of salt, 
One pint and a half of lukewarm milk, 
Two tablespoonsful melted butter. 
Let it rise, and when very light, bake. 

Corn Bread. 

One pint sour milk, 
One pint corn meal, 
One pint white flour, 



146 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Two teaspoonsful of soda, 
One teacupful of sugar, (brown,) 
One teaspoonful salt. 
Bake one hour. 

Sally Lunn. 

One quart of milk, 
Half teaspoonful of soda, 
Three eggs, 
One teacupful sugar, 
One tablespoonful butter, 
Half cupful of yeast. 
Make into a stiff batter, and bake in pie pans. 



Cracked Wheat for Breakfast. 

Get your wheat at the mill, that which is cleaned 
for grinding; unscrew your coffee mill, so that it will 
grind coarse, and grind a little of the wheat first to 
clear out the mill; then grind one or two mills full, as 
may be needed; put it in a saucepan, and set that in 
another containing boiling water; sweeten it and grate 
in nutmeg ; let it cook as long as it would take rice to 
cook. When done, dish it up and eat with cream. 
Do not have it too stiff, but stiff enough to dish up 
well. This is an elegant breakfast dish, and very 
nourishing. 

Mush, 

Sift your meal, and wet up as much as you wish to 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 147 

make into mush with cold water, and beat it well to 
break the lumps ; make it the consistency of a thick 
batter; grease a tin bucket well, put this in it, and set 
it in a pot of boiling water, and let it cook three or 
four hours. This is the finest way to make mush, all 
the raw meal taste is entirely destroyed, and will pour 
out smooth and not adhere io the bucket. When the 
mush is to be used for breakfast, cut it in thin slices 
and fry in hot lard; never put it in till the lard is 
smoking hot, or it will absorb the grease and be unfit 
to use. 



Hice, 

Wash your rice well in two or three waters, put it 
into a pan and add a little water to it ; set it in a 
steamer over a pot of boiling water, and let it cook till 
done ; as the water cooks out of the rice, add a little at 
a time of boiling water. There is no way so nice to 
cook rice. 



PASTRY. 



Very Rich Crust for Tarts, 

Eight ounces flour, 

Six ounces butter, 

One dessertspoonful pounded sugar, 

One to two spoonsful water. 
Break lightly, with the least possible handling, six 
ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour; add a 
dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, and two or three of 
water; roll the paste for several minutes, to blend the 
ingredients well, folding it together like puff crust, and 
touch it as little as possible: 



Pie Crust. 

In makmg pie crust or paste, care should be taken 
not to work or knead the crust at all ; it should be 
mixed quickly, and with as little handling as possible. 

FAMILY PIE CRUST. 

Such as most persons like for common use, a good 
proportion is — 

Half a pound of lard, 
One pound of flour, 
A spoonful of salt. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 149 

Mix with cold water. This makes a very nice crust. 
If it is needed to be any fc richer, roirit out quite thin, 
or as thin as you would to put in a pie plate, and rub 
the crust all over with butter, and then dredge on a 
little flour and roll it all up ; take a knife and cut it 
into r pieces, and roll out for pies. 



Puff Paste 

Is made in the same manner, only using butter instead 
of lard, and rolling out and spreading with butter in 
the same manner as the above. This makes it leafy 
and more light than common crust. 



Apple Pies. 

It takes the best~cooking apples to make good pies : 
these that are tart and will cook well. Stew or steam 
them till done, adding sugar and flour, with nutmeg or 
lemon. Make the pastry to suit the taste, either rich 
or plain; roll thin, put in your apples; put on another 
Crust, and bake in a rather quick^oven. 



French Pastry. 

(MRS. DR. JOEL PRICE, KY. ) 

One teacupful of butter, 
Two teacupsful of white sugar, 
Three teacupsful of flour, 
Four eggs beaten separately, 
Half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half a 
teacupful of sour cream or buttermilk. 



150 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Bake in jelly cake pans. Pnt one cake on a pie 
plate and spread raspberry or strawberry preserves 
upon it, then a layer of meringue on the top ; set it in 
the stove to lightly brown; continue in the same way 
till you have it is large as you wish, finishing the top 
with the preserves and meringue. 



Belleflower Apple Pie. 

Make a nice crust ; put it in your pie plate; peel 
nice belleflower apples, slice them the round way of 
the apple, take out the core, take the slices and lay 
them in your crust; put sugar, nutmeg, and bits of 
butter ; put two or three layers of apples, with sugar 
and butter over each ; one crust. Bake slowly. 



French Apple Pies. 

Eoll a crust as for other pies ; put your apples on 
one half of the crust, and turn the other half over, 
pressing the edges together so that the fruit will not 
escape; take a knife or fork and make a few holes in 
the top ; fry in hot lard. Do not make them too large. 



Pumpkin Pies. 

The pumpkin should be cooked slowly, (of course 
the rind should be cut off and the seeds scraped out,) 
then put in a kettle over a gentle fire until the pump- 
kin is thoroughly cooked; it should be taken from the 
fire and cooled, then run through a wire sieve ; when 
it is all rubbed through, add milk till it is a little 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 151 

thicker than batter; to every quart add four or six 
eggs, if eggs are plenty, six; beat the eggs well with 
the sugar before it is stirred in the pumpkin and milk; 
grate in nutmeg, put allspice and ground ginger; line 
your pie plates, and fill them with the pumpkin mix- 
ture. One crust. 



Mince Meat, 

( MRS. DR. PRICE, KY. ) 

Six pounds meat, well boiled and beaten in a 

mortar, 
Six pounds beef suet, chopped fine, 
Two pounds raisins, 
Two pounds currants, 
One pound of citron, 
Half dozen oranges, 

Half dozen lemons, (grate the peel of each, or 
chop it, use pulp and juice, sweeten to the 
taste,) 
One peck of apples, chopped fine, (can use pre- 
served fruits if it suits the taste,) 
Three quarts of whisky. 
Mix all well together. Put into stone jars, tie or 
cork tight, and use as you desire for pies, adding a 
little water when you go to make the pies. Make a 
rich pastry and roll thin ; spread your mince meat 
nicely in the crust before putting on the top crust. If 
necessary, when you take out of the jar for pies, be- 
fore pouring into the crusts, add a little whisky, and 
sweeten the water. Add sugar to the taste, two 



152 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



grated nutmegs, powdered allspice, a good deal of cin- 
namon and ground cloves. These must be used ac- 
cording to taste and judgment. 

Dried Peach Pies. 

These can be made as either the baked or fried 
apple pies. The peaches should be well cooked, 
sweetened while cooking, and flavored to suit the taste, 
and should be worked well with the hand. These are 
delicious fried. 



Pie Crust. 

In making pies, frequently there is a portion of the 
crust left over, in such cases work in all the flour pos- 
sible, beat them well, roll and make into crackers. 



Cranberry JPie. 

Take the choicest cultivated cranberries, wash them 
clean, remove all imperfect ones, select the largest. 
Line your pie plate with a rich puff paste, take the 
cranberries, and with a sharp knife split each one, and 
lay them carefully in your crust, sprinkle plenty of 
white sugar over them, put on another crust, and bake 
slowly. This makes the nicest cranberry pie I have 
ever eaten. 



Pie Plant Pie, or Short Cake. 

Wash your pie plant, remove the skin, and cut 
them up in small pieces ; put them in a pan, and set 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 153 

the pan in a steamer over a pot of boiling water ; 
cover, and in a short time it will be well cooked ; let 
it get nearly done before you add the sugar. The 
nicest way I have ever made the pie plant, is to make 
a rich puff paste, roll it out as thick as for a pie ; put 
it into a long tin baking pan ; then with the hand rub 
butter all over the crust, then a very little flour on 
that; roll out another piece just the same size, and put 
it on top of the crust in the pan. Bake this in time to 
have it hot for dinner. Have your pie plant ready 
steamed and sweetened, with a nice lump of butter 
stirred into it ; when the crust is baked, take a knife 
and lift off the upper crust, and spread on your pie 
plant, then put on your upper crust. By buttering 
the first crust you put in the pan, the top comes off 
without cutting or splitting it with a knife, as a knife 
put into hot crust or bread of any kind always makes 
it clammy. Try this way, and I venture you will never 
make pie plant pie any other way. In this way the 
fruit is not in the crust long enough to moisten or 
make it soggy. 



Strawberry Short Cake 

Is made in the same manner, with the exception that 
the strawberries are not cooked. 



Cocoanut Pie, 

Take a large, nice cocoanut, break off the outer 
shell, peel off the brown skin, wash it, dry it, and 
grate. Take — 
—14 



154 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Six eggs, 

One quart sweet milk, 

One-quarter of a pound melted butter, 

Sugar to the taste. 
Beat eggs and sugar well together, then add melted 
butter, then cocoanut and milk; stir well, bake in pie 
plates with one crust. 

Soda Cracker Pie, 

Take four soda crackers, put them side by side in a 
plate and pour boiling water over them, and let them 
remain till they are quite soft. Make a nice crust, 
line pie pan, and then pour off the water trom the crackers 
?nd slip them gently into the crust; trim off the 
corners after they are in the crust, to make them 
round; then have a bowl and pour a half cupful of 
water and a large cupful of white or brown sugar, and 
one teaspoonful of tartaric acid; stir all together, and 
pour over the crackers ; put on an upper crust. Bake 
slowly. In the spring, when apples are scarce, this 
comes very near an apple pie. 



Cream, JPies. 

Scald a quart of sweet cream; beat four or five 
eggs light, then stir them into the scalding cream ; add 
a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of the extract of 
lemon or peach water, and half a nutmeg grated, if 
liked ; sweeten to the taste, (about two tablespoonsful 
of sugar is enough ;) have flat pie dishes with nearly 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 155 

perpendicular sides ; grease them well ; line with pie 
paste rolled thin ; set them in quick oven for ten min- 
tes, then put in the cream nearly to fill them, and 
bake. 



Cream Pies. 

(MRS. DAVIS, CARROLLTON. ) 

One cupful of butter, 

Two cupsful of white sugar, 

Two cupsful of corn starch, 

Two cupsful of flour, 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Two teaspoonsful soda, in 

One cupful sour milk, or soda and cream tartar 
with sweet milk. 
Bake in cakes an inch in thickness, allowing two 
cakes for each pie, with custard between them, made 
as follows: 

Yelks of eight eggs, 

Twelve tablespoon sful of white sugar, 

Six tablespoonsful of flour, 

One quart of sweet milk, 

Flavor with lemon. 



Golden Pie, (A Splendid Pie.) 

(MRS. broad well ) 
Take one lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the 
juice in a bowl, to which add 
One teacupful of sugar, 
One teacupful new milk, 



156 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One tablespoonful corn starch, 
The yelks of three eggs, well beaten. 
Pour into a nice paste, and bake slowly. When 
done, beat the whites of the eggs with a little sugar, 
and spread over the top, and return to the oven to 
slightly brown. 



Cream Pie. 

Half pound butter, 
Four eggs, 

Sugar, salt, and nutmeg to the taste, 
Two tablespoonsful arrowroot. 
Then pour on it a quart of boiling milk ; stir all to- 
gether ; put in one crust. 

Transparent Pie. 

The yelks of three eggs, (this makes one pie,) 
Three tablespoonsful white sugar, 
One tablespoon fal butter. 
Beat till very light. Only one crust. 



Delicate Pie. 

( MRS. N. W. BEOADWELL. ) 

The grated rind of a lemon and the juice. 
One cupful of powdered sugar, 
The yelks of three eggs, 
Two tablespoonsful of flour, 
Two-thirds of a cupful of water. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 157 

Take the whites of the eggs and three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, beat well together. When the pie is 
done, spread on the whites, and return to the oven to 
brown. 



Cracker Pie* 

(MRS. ABLE.) 

One cupful sugar, 
One cupful molasses, 
Twelve small crackers, well rolled, 
Half cupful hot water, 
Two cupsful hard eider, 
Half pound raisins, 
One teaspoonful cloves, 
Two dessertspoonsful allspice, 
Two dessertspoonsful cinnamon, 
One large tablespoonful of butter, 
A little salt and pepper. 
Bake in two crusts. 



Lemon Pie, 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

One pint white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Four eggs, beaten in one at a time, 
Two tablespoon sf ul of flour, 
Kind of one large lemon, 
One pint sweet milk, 
(Juice of the lemon squeezed in.) One crust. This 
will make several pies. 



158 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Mince Meat. 

Six pounds of meat boiled and beat in a mortar, 

Six pounds of beef suet, chopped line, 

Two pounds of raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Half dozen oranges, 

Half dozen lemons, (grate the peel of each, re- 
move the seed, and use the pulp and juice, 
sweeten to the taste,) 

One peck of tart cooking apples, chopped fine , 

One quart cherry preserves, 

One quart damson preserves, 

One quart of quince, 

Three quarts fine whisky. 



Cracker Mince Pies. 

Break four large soda crackers into one and a half 
pints boiling water- 
One cupful and a half of butter, 
Two cupsful and a half of sugar, 
Two cupsful of raisins, cut tine, 
Half a cupful of wine or whisky, 
The juice and rind of one lemon. 
Cloves, allspice and cinnamon to the taste, a few 
chopped apples. This is sufficient for four pies. 



Peach Cobbler. 

Take nice, finely flavored peaches, peel and stone 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 159 

them, sweeten to the taste ; put them into a nice bak- 
ing pan, (tin is the best,) pat a rich crust on the top 
and bake slowly ; when done, remove the crust into a 
dish that will hold it, and if your peaches are well 
cooked, spread them nicely on the crust, (lay the top 
of the crust on the bottom of the dish.) Eat with 
sweetened cream. 



Gooseberry Pie. 

Stew the berries well, adding sugar and no water, 
as they throw out so much juice. Make a nice, rich 
pastry, and bake, sticking the crust to keep it from 
puffing; when cold, put in your berries, and have the 
whites of two eggs beaten with sugar and spread on 
the top; set in the oven to slightly brown. Any fruit 
pie may be made in the same way. No fruit pie 
should be made to stand over night, as the crust be- 
comes soggy and unlit for use. 



Lemon Pie, 

Make your crust and line your pie plate ; then take 
a teacupful of white or a light brown sugar and 
spread it evenly over the crust; grate off the rind of 
one lemon, peel off the white skin, and the slice the 
lemon with a very sharp knife, to have the slices thin ; 
lay them piece by piece over the sugar in the crust; 
then take your dredge box and shake about one table- 
spoonful of flour over it, and then put the grated rind 
of the lemon and about half a teacupful of cold water. 



i{){\ ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Put on Upper crust and bake slowly. This pie is as 
cheap a pie as can well be made, and if made and 
baked right, there is none better. If cooked too fast 
the juice runs out, and the pie is too dry. Try it. 



Lemon Pie. 

( MRS. BUNN. ) 

The grated rind and the juice of two lemons, 
Half pound white sugar, 
Quarter pound butter. 
Eight eggs, beat the whites separately. 
Lastly add nearly one pint rich cream. Make three 
pies. One crust. 

Potato Pie. 

Scald one quart of milk, grate in four large potatoes 
while the milk is hot; when cold add four eggs well 
beaten, and four ounces of butter; spice and sweeten 
to taste; lav in paste. Bake half an hour. 



Lemon Pie. 

( MRS. HUNT. ) 

Two eggs, leave out the white of one, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

One lemon, 
G rate the rind and use the juice, and cream enough to 
make it rill the crust, or a small piece of butter and 
milk, if you have no cream; this makes one pie. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 161 

Take the remaining white, beaten stiff, with two table- 
spoonsful white sugar, and when the pie is baked spread 
this over the top smoothly, and return to the oven till 
lightly brown. 

Mush Pie. 

One pound well-cooked mush 

Half a pound butter, 

One pound brown sugar, 

Six eggs, 

The juice of a lemon. 
Beat the butter well into the hot mush; beat the 
sugar and yelks of the eggs well together; then add 
the mush and butter, then the juice and grated', rind of 
the lemon; lastly the white of the egg&, which must 
be well-beaten. 



Silver Pie. 

( W. S. HURST. ) 

Feel and grate one large white potato into a deep 
plate, add the juice and grated rind of — 

One lemon, 

The white of one egg, well beaten, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

A teacupful of cold water. 

Pour this into a nice under crust. When done 

have ready the well-beaten whites of three eggs, half a 

teacupful of white sugar, a few drops of rose water ; 

put this over the pie and return it to the oven to 



162 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

brown. When ready for the table lay lnmps of currant 
jelly on the top ; have it made just before dinner. 

Lemon Pie. 

( Mrs. LEWIS. ) 
Grate the rind of three lemons, take off the thick 
white skin, cut the lemons in very thin slices, take out 
the seed, add — 

Three large cupsful of line white sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Half a cupful of water, 
Two tablespoonsful flour. 
Mix well, and make two pies with two crusts ; to be 
eaten warm. 



Wince Pie. 

( MRS. VAN NESS. ) 

Seven pounds meat, 

Ten pounds apples, 

Two pounds suet, 

Two pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Three lemons, 

Brandy and spices to the taste. 



Cream Pie. 

One teacupful of cream, one teacupful of sugar, two 
tablespoonsful flour rubbed smoothly in a little of the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 163 

cream, a lump of butter the size of an egg; one crust, 
and strips of crust across it. 



Golden Pie. 

Take one lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the 
pulp into a bowl, to which add — 

One teacupful white sugar, 

One teacupful new milk, 

One tablespoonful corn starch, 

The yelks of three eggs, well-beaten. 
Pour these ingredients into a nice paste crust to 
bake slowly ; beat the whites of three eggs stiff, and 
when the pie is just done, pour it over the pie evenly, 
and return it to the oven to stiffen, not to brown. 



Cream, Pie. 

Take the yelks of four eggs, beat light with a large 
tablespoonful sifted flour, one pint of cream and a tea- 
cupful of sugar. When baked, add the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, with three tablespoonsful sugar; 
spread over the top after the pie is baked, and return 
to the oven till lightly brown. 



JEgg Mince Pies. 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double 
the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and 
picked one pound, or more, if the eggs are large ; the 
peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six 
spoonsful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very 



164 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

little salt; orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make 
a light paste for them. 

Molasses Pie. 

The yelks of four eggs, beaten very light, 

One large spoonful flour, 

One pint molasses, 

Two tablespoonsful strong vinegar, 

Two tablespoonsful ginger. 
Bake, then add the whites of the eggs, well-beaten, 
with three spoonsful sugar; return to the oven to 
brown. 



Mince Pie. 

( MRS. VAN DUSEN. ) 

Three pounds beef, 

Two pounds suet, 

Six pounds apples, (that will cook well,) 

Three pounds raisins, 

Three pounds currants, 

Three pounds sugar, 

Two pounds citron, 

Three oranges, 

Two quarts brandy, 

Two quarts wine, 

Two quarts cider, 

One ounce rose water, 

One tablespoon ful ground ginger'. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 165 

Cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace, salt and pep- 
per to the taste. 



Delicate Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

The yelks of three eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful of flour, 

Two-thirds of cupful of water. 
Take the whites of the eggs and three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, and beat to a stiff froth and turn it over 
the pie when it is baked; set it in oven to brown. 
One crust. 



Cream JPie. 

( MRS. HURST. ) 

For the crust use — 

One cupful and a half flour, 

One cupful white sugar, 

Half cupful sweet milk, 

Two eggs, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

One tablespoon ful butter, 

Flavor to snit the taste. 
Bake this in two jelly cake pans, and let it get cold, 
and use one for the upper crust and one for the under 
crust. For the cream for the pies take : 

Half cupful white sugar, 

One-third cupful flour, 



166 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half pint sweet milk, 

One egg. 
Let the milk boil ; beat the eggs and sugar together ; 
take a little milk and wet the flour to a smooth paste, 
and stir into the sugar and egg', then stir all into the 
milk, and let it boil tolerably thick and spread on to 
one of the crusts previously baked, and then put the 
other crust on. Eaten warm for dinner, or eaten cold 
for supper. 

Lemon Pie, 

( MATE ELLIOTT. ) 

Three Eggs, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

Half cupful milk, 

One cupful sugar, 

One lemon, grate the rind. 
Mix the grated lemon with sugar and butter ; then 
add the yelks, then the milk, then lemon juice, last the 
whites, well-beaten; mix well. This makes two pies. 

Com Starch Pie, 

( CARRIE HURST. ) 

Three eggs, 

Six tablespoonsful white sugar, 
One tablespoonful corn starch, 
One pint sweet milk. 
Bake the crust first; beat the yelks and three table- 
spoonsful white sugar together ; stir in the corn starch ; 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 167 

make custard of the milk, eggs, sugar and corn starch ; 
flavor and pour on the crust; whip the whites and 
the other three spoonsful of sugar, and spread over 
the pie after it is baked, and return to the oven to 
slightly brown. 

Piecrust Glaze. 

In making pies which have a juicy mixture, the 
juice soaks into the crust, making it soggy and unfit to 
eat; to prevent this, take an egg well-beaten, and wet 
•the crust of the pie with it just before putting in the 
fruit. For pies which have an upper crust, wet the 
top with the same before baking. This is also nice 
for biscuit or ginger cakes, and with a little sugar 
added, is very nice for rusk. 



Transparent JPie. 

To one pie take the yelks of three eggs, three table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and a tablespoonful and a half of 
butter; beat well together; flavor to suit the taste. 
Make a rich puff paste and line the pie plate. Only 
one crust is required. 



Stewart Pie, (Splendid,) 

Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
One-half cupful butter, 
One teacupful cream or new milk, 
Four eggs, beat the yelks light. 



168 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Add the sugar, then jour milk and flavoring, then 
the half cupful melted butter; beat the whites to a 
stiff paste ; stir in and beat it well. This makes two 
pies. 

Summer Mince JPie. 

Four crackers broken up fine and dissolved in 
water ; then mix two eggs, well beaten ; add — 

One cupful raisins, cut fine. 

One cupful citron, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful vinegar, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful molasses, 

Six apples, cut fine, 

Add cinnamon and brandy to the taste. 
This will make six pies. 



Mince Pies without Meat* 

Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and 
minced; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three 
pounds, likewise minced; to these add of mace and 
cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight 
cloves, in finest powder ; three pounds of the finest 
powder sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of suet, the 
rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a pint of 
cider, the same of brandy, if you like. Mix well, and 
put into a deep pan. Have ready washed and dried 
four pounds of currants, and add as you make the 
pies, with candied fruit. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 169 



Lemon Mince Pie. 

Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender 
enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples 
chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of 
currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the 
lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a 
short crust, and fill the patty pans as usual. 



Lemon Pie, 

Three lemons, 

One quart milk, 

One heaping tablespoonful flour, 

One tablespoonful melted butter, 

Four eggs, 

One teacupful sugar. 
Rub your lemon on a grater, then roll till soft, then 
squeeze the juice out. Make a frosting for the top of 
the whites of the eggs and white sugar. This will 
make three pies. 



, Lemon Pie. 

Two lemons, 

Two teacupsful sugar, 

One teacupful milk, 

Two tablespoon sful corn starch, 

Yelks of six eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful melted butter. 
Beat the whites of the eggs with six tablespoonsful 
sugar, and pour over after the pie is baked. This 
makes two pies. 
—15 



170 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Mince Pie. 

Four pounds chopped beef, 

Four pounds chopped suet, 

Four pounds chopped raisins, 

Four pounds chopped currants, 

Seven pounds chopped apples, 

One pound chopped citron, 

Two pounds sugar, 

One ounce nutmeg, 

One quart madeira wine or pint brandy, 

One pint of golden syrup, 

A little salt. 



Apple Custard Pie. 

Peel and boil sour apples till soft, and not much water 
left in them, then rub through a colander if necessary. 
Beat two eggs, half a cupful sugar and a large table 
spoonful butter for each pie ; flavor with nutmeg. If 
the apples are very sour, add more sugar. 



Georgetown, Kentucky Pie. 

Break five large soda crackers into one and a half 
pints boiling water — 

One teacupful and a half butter, 
Two teacupsful and half sugar, 
One teacupful cut raisins, 
Half teacupful wine or whisky, 
The juice and rind of one lemon. 
Spices to the taste. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 171 



One large apple chopped fine will improve the pies. 
This makes four pies. 

Lemon Pie. 

Three eggs, 
One cupful sugar, 
One teaspoonful butter, 
One cupful flour, 
Juice of one lemon, 
Whites of two eggs, 

Two-thirds cupful sugar to make frosting for 
the top. 
"When the pie is done, put the frosting on the top, 
and return to the oven to brown. 



Strawberries Stewed for Tarts. 

Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and a teacup- 
fa] of water; add a little white of eggs; let it boil, 
and skim it until only a foam rises ; then put in a 
quart of berries free from stems and hulls ; let them 
boil till they look clear and the syrup is quite thick. 
Finish with fine puff paste. 



Lemon JPie. 

One lemon, four eggs, seven tablespoonsful sugar 
mixed with yelks; grate the rind, and mix juice, rind, 
sugar and yelks together. Beat the whites stiff with 
sugar, and spread over the top. Bake in a good 
crust. No top crust. 



172 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Vie Plant Short Cake. 

Make a short cake in the usual way, with sour milk 
or cream and soda^ or with sweet milk and soda and 
cream tartar ; many prefer this way to the rich pie 
crust short cake; bake in long pans; split them open, 
butter and spread your fruit between, or, as many pre- 
fer, have your fruit ready, and serve at the table. 
Any fruit will answer. Always steam fruits of this 
kind, they are much nicer than if they come in con- , 
tact with the lire. 



Cheap Lemon Pies. 

Take one large lemon, squeeze out the juice, chop 
the peel very line ; take — 

One teacupful sugar, 

One teacupful molasses, 

Three teacupsful water, 

One cupful sifted flour, 

One egg. 
One or two good cooking apples, stewed or grated, 
and sweetened to suit the taste, boil the peel till soft; 
then put in the flour, which must be wetted and rubbed 
smooth; boil till it thickens; then add the juice and 
other ingredients. This will make four medium sized 
pies with two crusts. 

Apple Trifle, (A Supper Dish.) 

Ten good-sized apples, 
The rind of half a lemon, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 173 

Six ounces of pounded sugar, 

Half-pint milk, 

Half-pint cream, 

Two eggs, 

Whipped cream. 
Peel, core, and cut the apples into thin slices, and 
put them into a saucepan with two tablespoonsful of 
water, the sugar, and minced lemon rind. Boil all to- 
gether until quite tender, and pulp the apples through 
a sieve; if they should not be quite sweet enough, 
add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of 
the dish to form a thick layer. Stir together the 
milk, cream, and eggs, with a little sugar, over the 
lire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to 
reach the boiling point. When thick, take it off the 
fire; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. 
Whip some cream with sugar, lemon peel, etc., the 
same as for other trifles; heap it high over the 
custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be 
garnished as fancy dictates with strips of bright apple 
jelly, slices of citron, etc. 



Cream, Pie. 

Three pints of new milk, 
Eight eggs, 
Half a cupful butter, 
Two tablespoonsful flour, 
One cupful sugar. 
Beat the butter and flour together, and the sugar 
and egg*. Let the milk get warm by setting it in 



174 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

warm water on the stove ; a small pail is nice to put 
the milk in ; set this in a kettle of boiling water, then 
add the butter and flour, stir a few minutes ; then add 
the sugar and eggs, stir until a little thick ; then flavor 
with vanilla, this is the only kind of flavoring for 
these pies ; remove from the fire. Have a crust made 
as follows: 

One teacupful of water, 

One teacupful of lard, 

A little salt. 
Mix this soft enough to roll out for pies ; have but 
one crust. When the pies are baked, have the whites 
beaten stiff with a little white sugar, and spread on 
the top and let it brown lightly. This makes splendid 
pies. 



CAKES. 



General Directions for Cake Making. 



As a general thing there has been more cake 
wasted by carelessness in mixing than from any other 
cause, - unless it is the want of patience to beat it 
as it should be. Some have an idea, that to have the 
proper materials and throw them into a pan and give 
them a stir or two, is all that is required. But such is 
not the case. The same rule holds good in most 
cakes. The butter and sugar should always be beaten 
together till they are perfectly light. The whites 
should be beaten perfectly stiff. Your cream tartar 
or baking powder, just as your receipt calls for it, 
should always be mixed well in the flour. Add a 
little flour to the butter and sugar before putting in the 
milk; dissolve the soda in the milk; then add the 
flour and whites alternately. Beat very little after 
the whites are put in the pan, and bake immediately . 
Nice white butter makes the whitest cake. 



176 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

A Fine Icing for Cake. 

Beat up the whites of live eggs to a froth, and put 
to them a pound of double-relined sugar, powdered 
and sifted, and three spoonsful of orange flower 
water or lemon juice. Keep beating it all the time the 
cake is in the oven, and the moment it comes out, ice 
over the top with a spoon. 



Black Cake. 

( MRS. DR. JOEL PRICE, KY. ) 

One pound and a quarter of very light dough, 
made with potato yeast, 

Six eggs, 

Three-quarters of a pound butter, 

One pound sugar, 

Two pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, thoroughly washed and 
slowly dried in a slow oven, 

One pound of citron, cut fine, 

One glass blackberry jelly, 

One tablespoonful cloves^ 

One nutmeg, 

Two tablespoonsful cinnamon, 

One teasoonful soda, 

One wine glass of whisky or brandy, 

One glass of madeira wine. 
Work the butter into the dough ; have the eggs and 
sugar well-beaten together, and add to the dough in 
small quantities at a time; flour the fruit, add it 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 177 

gradually. Cut a paper to lit tlie bottom of the 
mould, grease it well ; pour the whole into the mould. 
Let it rise one hour, bake three hours. Let it stand 
in the mould after it has been baked for several hours. 

Currant Cake, 

. Two cupsful sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Four even cupsful of flour, 
One cupful of currants, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
Four eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 



Custard Cake. 

Two cupsful sugar, 

Nine tablespoonsful melted butter, 

Two-thirds of a cupful sweet milk, 

Three cupsful flour, 

Six eggs, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 

White Cake. 

One pound powdered sugar, 
One pound flour, 
Half pound butter, 
Whites of sixteen eggs, 



178 ILLINOIS OOOK BOOK. 

( )ne teaspoonful soda, 
Three teaspooiisful cream tartar. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, and stir a 
little Hour with it. Beat well. 



Cream Cake. 

Five eggs, 

Three cupsful sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful cream, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Mix the sugar and butter, then add the rest. 



Cold Icing. 

One egg^ eight large teaspooiisful of white sugar; beat 
well and hard; add tartaric acid to whiten; flavor to 
the taste. 



Ice Cream Cake. 

Two cupsful white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Three cupsful flour, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Whites of eight eggs, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda. 
Beat the butter and sugar together, then the whites 
of the eggs, well-beaten; stir in the flour, and cream 



ILLINOIS OOOK BOOK. 179 

of tartar, well-mixed, and lastly the milk with the soda 
dissolved in it. Butter shallow pans, spread evenly on 
the bottom half an inch thick; bake quickly to a deli- 
cate light brown. 



Receipt for Icing, 

Put three cupsful white sugar in a saucepan with 
one cupful of water, let it boil to a clear, thick syrup ; 
then pour in boiling hot over the whites of three eggs, 
stirring it very hard; add half teaspoonful of pulver- 
ized citric acid; flavor with vanilla; spread over the 
cake warm. If it gets cold, warm it by steam. 



Soft Ginger Cake. 

(MRS. JUDGE VAN DOERSTON's. ) 

One pint molasses, 
Three eggs, 

One teacupful sour milk, 
Butter the size of an egg. 
( )ne tablespoonful soda stirred into the molasses ; 
flour enough to make a soft dough; ginger to the taste. 



Doughnuts. 

One pint flour, lump of butter the size of a walnut 
rubbed into it, half cupful sugar, one-third of a tea- 
spoonful soda, one egg, enough buttermilk to make it 
a proper consistency ; make in twists, or roll and cut 
in cakes, and fry in hot lard. 



180 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Citron Cake. 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Half teacupful sweet milk, 

Two teacupsful powdered white sugar, 

Three-quarters of teacupful butter, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One pound best citron. 
Cut the citron in very thin slices, beat whites to a 
stiff froth; beat butter and sugar together; add a 
little flour with cream tartar, well-mixed; then the 
milk, in which the soda has been well dissolved ; then 
add the whites, and last stir in the citron; mix well. 
Bake in long or square baking tins. Such cakes, and 
the gold cake, made with the yelks of eggs, are always 
better baked in shallow pans, and with a little icing on 
the top looks much nicer when cut for the table. 



Cottage Cake, 

One cupful and a half sugar, 

Half cupful butter, 

Two eggs, 

One scant teaspoon soda, dissolved in one cup- 
ful milk, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar rubbed in flour- 
enough to make this thick as pound cake, 

Juice and rind of a lemon. 
This is good to be eaten fresh, but will not keep long. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 181 



Delicious Cake* 

Two cupsful white sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful milk, 

Three eggs, 
. Half teaspoonful soda, 

Scant teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Three cupsful flour. 
Stir butter and sugar together and add the beaten 
yelks of the eggs, then the beaten whites ; dissolve 
the soda in the milk, rub cream tartar m the flour, and 
add the last thing. 

Tipsy Cake* 

Make any nice sponge cake; bake it in one or more 
oval pans, as may be needed, (if for an evening com- 
pany, of course one would not be enough;) let it be 
baked a delicate light brown; when cold, put it into 
any nice platter or large glass dish that will hold it 
nicely. Pour over it madeira wine till it is perfectly 
saturated ; have ready blanched almonds, sufficient to 
stick over the top of the cakes. Make a nice, rich, 
boiled custard and pour it around the edges of the 
dishes or dish in which your cake has been placed, re- 
serving enough custard to add to each dish of the 
cake as you serve it up. According to my own taste, 
I think that about three or four whites of eggs to each 
cake, well-beaten, and four tablespoonsful powdered 
sugar beaten in it, and spread over the top, is a 



182 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

great improvement. It can be set in the oven to 
slightly brown before putting the custard around the 
edges. 

Silver Cake. 

Half teacupful butter, 

One cupful and a half sugar, 

Two cupsful and a half flour, 

The whites of eight eggs. 
Dissolve half a teaspoonful soda in one tablespoon- 
ful water, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Beat butter 
and sugar well together. Beat the whites stiff. 



Ginger Snaps, 

Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
Two teacupsful best sugar house molasses, 
One teacupful butter, 
One teacupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Work in flour enough to make it stiff, and roll in 
thin cakes. Bake to a nice brown. 



Drop Cakes, 

The yelks, after making a large, or even small 
white cake, make very nice drop cakes. Take — 
Seven or eight yelks 
Two coffeecupsful brown sugar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 183 

One coffeecupful butter, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 
Flour enough to make them drop nicely in a well- 
greased pan. Beat well together before putting in the 
milk; drop them and give them room to spread. 
They can be baked in the tins that are now made for 
muffins. Flavor to suit the taste. 



Fruit Cake. 

Four eggs, 

One cupful brown sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful cold strong coffee, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One pound citron, 

One pound currants, 

One pound raisins, 

Four cupsful flour. 
Beat butter and sugar well together, then add eggs, 
and beat well before adding coffee, in which the soda 
must be dissolved ; mix cream tartar in flour; lastly 
mix in the fruit. Try with a straw before taking from 
the stove. 



Spice Cake. 

Three Eggs, 



184 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One cupful of brown sugar, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Half cupful butter, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cinnamon, 
One teaspoonful cloves, 
One teaspoonful allspice, 
A little lemon. 

This is ta be mixed as other cakes are, sugar and 
butter together, then add the other ingredients. Great 
care should be given to the beating of cake, the more 
it is beaten the better it is, of course. Let the beating 
all be doue before the cream tartar and soda are put 
in. It should then be gently stirred, and put in to 
bake immediately. 



Sponge Gingerbread. 

One cupful of sour milk, 

One cupful molasses, 

Half cupful butter, 

Two eggs, 

One tablespoonful ginger. 
Flour to make it as thick as pound cake. Put the 
butter^ molasses and ginger together, and make them 
quite warm; then add the milk, flour and yeast 
powder, or baking powder, as it is more generally 
called. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 185 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cupful molasses, 
Half cupful brown sugar, 
Half cupful butter, 

Half cupful warm milk, the butter melted in it, 
Two tablespoonsful baking powder. 
The dough should be stiff, roll out and cut in cakes 



Hotted Jelly Cake. 

Three eggs, 

One china teacupful sugar, 

One china teacupful flour. 
Beat the yelks of the eggs till light, then add the 
sugar, continue beating some time; then add the 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth, then flour, very little at 
the time; bake in a long pan well-greased. When 
done, turn out on bread board, then cover the top well 
with jelly, and roll up while warm, and slice as needed. 



Macaroons. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound; whisk 
the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a 
pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste ; 
and laying a sheet of wafer paper on a tin, put it on 
in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. 



Tea Cakes. 

Rub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine 
—16 



186 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sugar, the yelks of two and white of one egg. Roll the 
paste the thickness of a cracker, and cut with a wine 
glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over 
them ; and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. 



Blade Cake, 

Half pound butter, 
.Half pound sugar, 
Half pound flour, 
Six eggs, 

One pound and a half raisins. 
One pound and a half currants, 
Half pound citron, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
Half teaspoonful mace, 
Half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
Half teaspoonful cloves, 
Half teaspoonful allspice, 
One teaspoonful nutmeg, 
One cupful molasses, 
Half gill brandy. 
Bake slowly three hours. This makes three loaves. 



Pudding, 

One cupful milk, 

One cupful molasses, 

Half cupful butler, 

Three and a half cupsful flour, 

One glass brandy, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 187 

One teaspoonful each of all kinds of spice, 
One teaspoonful saleratus. 
Steam three hours. 



JDoufjhnuts. 

One cupful sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Small spoonful butter, 
One cupful and a half milk, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar. 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Mix with flour and roll out stiff. Flavor to taste. 



Silver Cake, 

Half cupful butter, 

One cupful and a half sugar, beat well together, 
Whites of eight eggs, beaten to a froth, 
Two and a half cupsful flour. 
Dissolve one-half teaspoonful soda in one table- 
spoonful water, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar. 
For gold cake take the yelks of the eggs and mix 
the same as above. 



Cream Tea Cakes, 

One pound flour, 
Pint sour cream. 
Two-thirds of a cupful butter, 



188 ILLINOIS LOOK LOOK. 

i 

Half teaspoonful Baleratus dissolved in a Litttle 
warm water, 
Mix lightly. Flour your bands well and make out 
in small cakes, the Bize of an egg. Lay close in a but- 
tered pan, and bake in a quick oven. 



Fruit Cake. 

( hie cupful o\' butter, 
( me cupful sugar, 
One cupful molasses, 
Three cupsful flour, 
Four eggs, 
I [alf pound currants, 

1 [alf pound raisins. 

Quarter pound citron. 
Quarter teaspoonful Baleratus, 
One teaspoonful each of all kinds of spice. 
This cake will keep a year. 



Cocoa nut Cake* 
One cupful sugar, 

One 4 cupful Hour, 

Three eggs, 

Three tablespoonsful sweet milk, 

Ohl teaspoonful cream tartar mixed in the Hour, 

Half teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk, 

Ten teaspoonsful sugar to two eggs. 

One COQOanut, and niix two-thirds of it with 
the frosting and spread over the rako; then add 



[LLINOIfl OOOB BOOK. \HU 



the r60l of the cocoanut. Bake the cake m for jelly 
cake. 



Coffee ('ft/.'*-. 
One third cupful butter, 

One CUpful mol;i | 

I lull" cupful brown sugar, 

Elalf cupful cold itrong coffee, 

Two egj 

One teaspoouful each of cinnamon, cloves and 

nodu. 



l><ii calf Cake* 

One cupful butter, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
I [alf cupful sweei milk, 

Three CUpsful flour. 

I Calf teaBpoonful soda, 

One teaBpoonful cream tartar, 

White- of ten egg ■ 



'Railroad (akr. 

( MliS. W. A. I rir.i.v. ) 
Sixteen eggfl, 

One pound sugar, 

One pound Hour, 

Elalf pound butter. 

Beai the white- t<> a -till" froth, add yelks; then 



190 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sugar, melted butter, then add flour ; stir as little as 
possible. 



Sponge Cake, 

Eleven ounces flour, 
Seventeen ounces sugar, 
Twelve eggs. 
Beat the whites and yelks separately. 



Cocoanut Pound Cake. 

One pound sugar, 
One pound flour, 
Twelve ounces butter, 
Ten eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 
Beat the butter till creamy, add sugar; then cocoa- 
nut, then flour. 



Sponge Cake. 

Two tumblersful of sugar, 
Two tumblersful of flour, 
Ten eggs, well beaten, 
Add the flour last*. 



Chocolate Puffs. 

The whites of two eggs, 

Half pound- sugar, 

One ounce and a half chocolate, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 191 

Two tablespoons! ul corn starch, with the choco- 
late pulverized. 
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar; then 
add chocolate; drop sugar on paper; then drop the 
puffs on, and dust sugar over them. Bake in a quick 
oven. 



Cocoanut Cake. 

One cupful butter, 

Two and half cupsful sugar, 

Four cupsful flour, 

One cupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

Whites of seven eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Three cupsful molasses, 
One cupful sugar, 
Quarter cupful butter, 
Four spoonsful ginger, 
One spoonful cinnamon, 
One spoonful cayenne pepper. 



Jumbles. 

One pound of nice sugar into two pounds of flour; 
beat four eggs with three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, very light, and bake quickly. 



192 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Fruit Cake. 

Ten eggs, 

Two tumbler sf ill and a hall* sugar, 
Three tuinblersful Hour, 
Three-quarters pound butter, 
Two pounds currants, 
Two pounds raisins, 
Half pound citron. 
Last, the whites well-beaten. 



White Sponge Cake. 

One cupful and a half sugar, 
One cupful Hour, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
The whites of ten eggs. 



White Cake. 

One cupful butter, 

Four cupsful sugar, 

Six cupsful flour, 

Whites of fourteen eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
One teaspoonful soda dissolved in one teacupful of 
sweet milk, and two teaspoonsful of cream tartar 
mixed in flour. Flavor to taste and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

White Mountain Cake. 

The whites of six eggs, 
Two-thirds cupful butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 193 

One cupful sweet milk, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
Three cupsful Hour, 
( >ne teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar or baking powder. 
Make a thin icing, (and stir in grated cocoanut, if 
you prefer it,) and put on the cake as in jelly cake. 



Almond Icing for Wedding Cake, 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat a pound of blanched almonds very tine in a mor- 
tar with rose water, (a few only at a time,) mix them 
with eggs lightly together; put in by degrees one 
pound of powdered loaf sugar; spread the icing 
smoothly on the cake. It must be well-beaten. 



Pork Cake, 

One pound of pickled pork chopped as line as 

can be, 
Two pounds currants, 
Two pounds raisins, 
One pound citron, 
Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
One teacupful molasses, 
One tablespoonful cloves, 
One teaspoonful cinnamon, 
One tablespoonful allspice, 
One nutmeg, 



194 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One tablespoonful soda, 
One wine glassful brandy or whisky, 
Four pints of flour; put three in the cake, and put 
the other on the fruit, and rub it over to prevent set- 
tling at the bottom. Mix as for other cake. Bake three 
hours. Pour over the pork after it is chopped one 
pint of boiling water, and when cool put in the other 
ingredients into the water and pork. This makes a 
splendid large cake that will keep well. No butter or 
eggs. Try it. 

Fruit Cake. 

Fourteen eggs, 
One pound and a half butter, 
One pound and a half brown sugar, 
One pound and a half flour, 
Three pounds raisins, 
Three pounds currants, 
One pound citron, 
One coffeecupful syrup, 
One wine glassful brandy, 
One tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, 
cloves and nutmeg. 



Almond Macaroons. 

Three-quarters pound sweet almonds, one-quarter 
pound bittter almonds; blanch and pound to a smooth 
paste, in a mortar, a few at a time. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of six eggs, and beat into these, by 
degrees, one pound white sugar ; mix in the almonds 



U.t.l ■■: I (*/| :.'■ L0J 



fj (',/fd jfjt/; H;;iJ; 
li '/»},<•; ]',;)/« ju ;. 

Weather Cake* 

( >!,'■ »<•.;>/• u j, ; 

'J //'; f<-,;i> uj,..fi/] fjoii 
O/H: tabl<: fcjiOOfjful \ttllU 

' > ' < ■// 
\\ 0.1 J '■ 

P litvoi wit.li tiuUnc'/ 

Cup <"/.* 

<)n< u 
'J ' 

'I ■■ I 



White '"/' 

'i ..' 

'I ipfol b 

'I Us HUff. 

1 ./reetcfl/'ijj/.-.f'u: 

On •.<<•'• r/iilkj 



196 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Flavor with peach water. 
Golden cake is made with the yelks, and in the same 
proportion as the above white cake. 



Sponge Cake. 

One teacupful sugar, 
One teacupful flour, 
Three eggs, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
One tablespoonful warm water 
Bake quickly. 



Jumbles. 

One pound butter, 
Two pounds flour, 
Two pounds sugar, 
Eight eggs, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One cupful sour milk. 



Hose Catee. 

(MRS. DR. ORISSUM'S, KY. 

One pound flour, 
One pound white sugar, 
Three-quarters pound butter, 
The whites of fourteen eggs, well beaten. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 197 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then stir in 
the whites and flour alternately until thoroughly 
mixed. Take one teaspoonful cochineal in a table- 
spoonful of cold water, and beat till dissolved ; strain it 
in a half teacupful of the batter, cover the bottom of 
the pan with the white; then mix in as in the marble 
cake. Flavor with rose. The cochineal must be pre- 
pared thus: 

One-third cochineal, 

One-third alum, 

One-third cream tartar. 
They must be pulverized well together at the drug 
store. 



Cocoanut Jumbles. 

Two eggs, 

Three teacupsful white sugar, 

One teacupful butter, 

One teacupful sour cream, 

One scant teaspoonful soda, 

Five teacupsful flour, 

One large cocoanut grated. 
• Koll in sugar and drop in the pan. Add the nut 
last. 



Mountain Cake. 

(MRS. BUNN. ) 

Three teacupsful white sugar beaten up with five 
eggs and a scant cupful of butter, 



198 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Four and half cupsful flour, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Put ordinary icing between it. It is nice to have 
every alternate layer of nice fair jelly. 

Lady Cake. 

(MRS. DR. RYAN.) 

Whites of eight eggs, 

Two teacup sful white sugar, 

One teacupful butter, 

Four teacupsful flour, 

Half teacupful sweet milk, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 

Flavor with peach and rose. 



Fruit Cake. 

( MRS. W. S. HURST. ) 

Ten eggs, 

One pound brown sugar, 

One pound flour, 

Three pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Cloves, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, wine and 

brandy to the taste, 
One large cupful molasses. 
Beat well, as in all cakes. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 199 

Almond Cake. 

Whites of seventeen eggs, 

Three-quarters of a pound butter, 

One pound white sugar, 

One pound flour. 
Beat the whites stiff, add the sugar and butter to- 
gether and beat well, add flour and whites alternately. 
Use extract of almond or blanched almonds, and rub in 
rose water. 



Pound Cake. 

One pound sugar, 

One pound flour, 

Three-quarters of a pound butter. 
Beat the butter and sugar well together, add the 
yelks of ten eggs ; beat the whites stiff', and add with 
the flour. Bake one hour. 



White Cake. 

( MRS. WM. S. HURST. ) 

Whites of ten eggs, 

Two coffeecupsful white sugar. 

One coffeecupful butter, 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sf ul cream tartar, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 



200 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cup Cake. 

Five eggs, 

Three teacup sful sugar, 
Oue teacupful butter, 
Five teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sour milk, 
One small teaspoonful soda. 
This is very nice made with currants, and it makes an 
excellent jelly cake. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs, • 

One pound white sugar, 

Half pound flour, 
Beat the yelks and the sugar to a cream, the whites 
stiff, and add alternate with the flour. Flavor with 
lemon. Bake quickly ; add a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of tartaric acid. 



Fruit Cake. 

(mks. wm. s. hurst. ) 
Use the ten yelks left from the above white cake — 
Two cofteecupsful brown sugar, 
One cofleecupful butter, 
One cofleecupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
Four cofteecupsful flour, brown the flour, if pre- 
ferred, black, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 201 



Two pounds raisins, 
One pound currants, 
Half pound citron. 



Cream, Sponge Cake. 

One teacupful white sugar. 
One teacupful flour, 
Half teacupful cream, 
Two eggs. 



JJnion Cake, 

One teacupful butter, 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teacupful corn starch, 

Three eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 



Harrison Cake* 

(MRS. MATE ELLIOTT.) 

Three eggs, 

One teacupful and a half butter, 
One teacupful and a half brown sugar, 
Two teacupsful molasses, 
Five teacupsful flour, 
Two pounds . raisins, 
One pound currants, 
—17 



202 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One pound citron, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two tablespoonsful each of cinnamon and 

cloves, 
Two grated nutmegs. 
Bake two hours, if all baked in one pan. 



Delicate Cake. 

(mrs p. b. price. ) 
Stir to a cream one pound powdered white sugar 
and seven ounces butter; beat the whites of sixteen 
eggs stiff; stir in one pound sifted flour. Flavor to the 
taste. Bake immediately. 



Warble Cake, 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 
WHITE PART. 

The whites of eight eggs, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

Three teacupsful white sugar, 

One teacupful butter, 

Four teacupsful and a half flour, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar. 

DARK PART. 

The yelks of the eight eggs, and one whole egg^ 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
Three teacupsful brown sugar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 203 

One teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful butter, 
Five teacupsful flour. 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice 

and nutmeg. 
Put enough of the white in the pan to cover the 
bottom; then put in the spice and white alternately 
till all is in the pan. Bake two hours. This is one of 
the most delicious cakes I have ever tasted. It will 
keep almost as well as fruit cake. 



Fancy Cake. 

Beat the yelks of four eggs into a half pound of 
sugar; add a little less than half pound flour; beat 
fifteen minutes, then add one teaspoonful rose water 
and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake in 
small cakes and put sugar plums on top. 



Aunty's Cake. 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Half teacupful sweet milk, 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

Three-quarters of a teacupful butter, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar. 



204 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cocoanut Cake, 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

One teacupful butter, 

Two teacupsful and a half sugar, 

Four teacupsful flour, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

Whites of seven eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 
Bake in shallow tins. Make frosting, and grate into 
it another cocoanut to put between the cakes. Use a 
very little extract lemon in both cake and cocoanut. 



Sponge Cake. 

( MARIA WATSON. ) 

Thirteen eggs, beaten separate, 

One pound sugar beaten with the yelks, 

Half pound flour stirred in lightly the last 

thing, 
Flavor with lemon. 



Snow Cake. 

(mrs. wm. a. turney. ) 

The whites of ten eggs, 
One tumbler and a half powdered sugar, 
One tumbler and two tablespoonsful flour, 
A scant teaspoonful cream tartar. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 205 



White Cake. 

The whites of ten eggs, 
Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 
One coffeecupful butter, 
One coffeecupful sweet milk, 
Four coffeecupsful flour, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



Ambrosial Cake. 

{ ELLA MYERS. ) 

Make any rich white cake ; bake in jelly cake pans, 
using the following : 

Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 
Yelks of six eggs, 
Whites of four eggs, 
Four lemons. 
Grate the rind of two lemons ; one-quarter pound 
butter. Put in a pan and stew over a slow lire until 
it becomes thick. 



Sponge Cake. 

( ELLA MYERS. ) 

One pint powdered sugar, 
One pint flour, 

Eight eggs, beaten separately, the yelks for 
half an hour, 
Flavor with lemon. Bake one hour. 



206 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Silver Cake. 

Three-quarters teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 
Four teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Twoteaspoonsful cream tartar, 
The whites of live eggs, 
Flavor to taste. 
Peach is good for the silver, and lemon or nutmeg 

for the gold. 

Gold Cake. 

Two teacupsful sugar, 
Three-fourths teacupful butter, 
Four teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Yelks of Ave eggs, 
Flavor to taste. 



Starch Cake, 

The whites of seven eggs, 
One teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful white sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful corn starch, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 207 



One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon still cream tartar, 



Corn Starch Cake, (No, 2. ) 

The whites of sixteen eggs, 

One pound white sugar, 

Three-quarters pound butter. 
Beat the sugar and butter well together ; beat the 
whites stiff'; one pound of corn starch, one teaspoonful 
baking powder; beat lightly after adding the whites. 



Milwaukee Cake. 

Half teacupful butter, 

Two teacupsful sugar, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Three eggs, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

Half teaspoonful soda, or one teacupful water, 

three teaspoonsful baking powder, 
Flavor with lemon. 



Tipsy Cake, (Sponge,) 

Cut a small cake in slices, put them into a flat glass 
dish, pour some wine and a little Jamaica over the 
cake; let it soak a few hours; put into a disband 
serve with some custard round. It may be decorated 
with a few blanched almonds or whipped cream and 
fruit. 



208 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



( It oeofa te 31a ea roon s. 

Scrape line halt' a pound baker's eoeoa; beat stiff 
the whites of four eggs, and into this stir one pound 
powdered sugar and the scraped cocoa, adding a very 
little flour. Form the mixture into small, thick cakes, 
and lay them not too close on a buttered tin, and bake 
a few minutes. Sift sugar on them while warm. 



Clioeolate Cake. 

Beat the whites o\' two eggs with a quarter of a 
pound powdered sugar into a frothy cream; add the 
juice of half a lemon and six ounces of finely grated 
chocolate. Drop this mixture in spoonsful on a flat 
tin, and bake them slowly. 



Little Plum Cake, to Keep Long. 

Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces oi' 
finely powdered sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a 
cream, and add to three eggs, well-beaten; half a 
pound of currants washed and nicely dried, and the 
flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge 
floor on tin plates and drop the batter on them the size 
of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. 
Bake in a brisk oven. 



Lemon Drops. 

Grate three large lemons, w T ith a large piece of 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 209 



double-reiined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a 
plate, add half a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, and 
beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. 
Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moder- 
ate oven on a tin plate. 



Lemon Cake. 

( MRS. RAPP, JACKSONVILLE. ) 

Six eggs, 

Six ounces flour, 

Eight ounces sugar. 

( FILLING FOR CAKE. ) 

Three ounces butter, 

Four eggs, 

Four lemons, 

Three-fourths of a cupful sugar, 

Grated rind of two lemons. 
Mix all together ; then put in a pan and let it come 
to a boil. Be careful not to burn. Spread on cakes 
like jelly. 



Golden Cake. 

One teacupful of butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
Eight eggs, the yelks, 
Half teacupful milk, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda. 



210 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Mix the flour and cream tartar together. Flavor 
with nutmeg. 



Jane's Cream Cake. 

One pint water, 

Half pound butter, 

Three-quarters of a pound flour, 

Ten eggs. 
Boil the water, melt the butter in it; stir in the 
flour dry while the water is boiling. When cool, add 
one teaspoonful soda and the eggs well-beaten. Drop 
the mixture on buttered tins with a spoon, and bake 
twenty minutes. 

( INSIDE MIXTURE. ) 

One cupful flour, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One quart milk, 

Four eggs. 
Beat flour, eggs and sugar together, and stir into the 
boiling milk; when scalded enough add lemon and 
vanilla. When the cakes are cold open and All with 
this mixture. 



Cocoanut Cake, 

One cotieecupful butter, 

Three cofleecupsful sugar, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

Four cofleecupsful and a half flour, 

Four eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

One teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 211 



Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
One grated cocoanut. (Excellent.) 



Cookies. 

( MAGGIE LAMB.) 

Seven eggs, 

Two coffeecupsful sugar, 

Flour enough to make a soft dough, 

Three teaspoonsful % baking powder, 

No milk or water, 

Two coffeecupsful butter. (Splendid.) 



Cookies, 

Two eggs, 

One teacupful loaf sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
Two tablespoonsful buttermilk, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Flour enough to roll out thin. Spice to the taste. 



Plum Cake. 

One pound flour, 
One-quarter pound butter, 
One-quarter pound sugar, 
One-quarter pound currants, 
Three eggs, 
Half pint milk, 



212 ILLINOIS COOK LOOK. 

One teaspoonfu] soda, 
Two teaspoonsfu] cream tartar, 
Spices tosuil the taste. 
The above is excellent. These cakes are always 
baked is small pans. 

Excel I en t ( "ookics. 

Two tea*.* uj>s in I sugar, 

( >ne teacup ful butter, 

One teacupfu] Lard, 

One teacupfu] Bweet milk. 

Three quarters of a pound corn starch, 

Three quarters of a pound flour, 

( >ne teaspoonfu] soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 

Uoll very soft. 



thimbles. 

One coffeecupful sugar, after it is sifted, 
(>iu> scant coffeecupful butter, 
Two eoffeocupsfu] Hour, 
Two eggs, 

Flavor with lemon. 



Coffee Cake* 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful o\' made strong coffee, 

Two cupsful brown BUgar, 
Three cupsful flour, 



rLLnrou < ooi book. 218 



One cupful raisins, 
One cupful currants, 
Two teaspoonsful cinnamon, 
Two teaspoonsful cloves, 
One teaspoonful soda. 



Sponge Cake* 

Take five eggs, half a pound powdered sugar, break 
the egg upon the sugar, and beat with a steel fork for 
balf an hour. Take the weight of* two eggs and a. 
half in the shell of flour; after you have beaten the 
ad sugar the time specified, grate in the rind of 
a lemon, the juice ma j be added at pleasure; stir in 
the flour, and immediately pour it into a. tin lined with 
'buttered paper, and put it Instantly into a moderate 
oven 



Marble. Cake, 
FOB THJE w/fi'i k. 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful .-our milk, 
Three CUpeful flour, 

Whites of seven eggs, 
One teaspoonful soda. 

FOB THE BLACK. 
Two CUpsful brown BUgar, 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful sour milk, 

Three cupsful flour, 



214 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One cupful molasses, 

Yelks seven eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Spice to taste. 
Mix each cake separately ; paper the bottom of your 
pan and grease well, then cover the bottom with some 
of the dark cake, and then add white and dark alter- 
nately till all is in the pan. Bake an hour and a half. 



Molasses Cap Cake. 

One coffeecupful molasses, 

One coffeecupful sugar, 

One coffeecupful sour milk or cream, 

One coffeecupful of mixed butter and lard, 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful chopped raisins, 

One coffeecupful currants, 

Four eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

A pinch of salt, 

One teaspoonful cloves, 

One tablespoonful ginger, 

One nutmeg. 

Water Cookies* 

Two teacupsful sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
One teacupful cold water, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 215 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Flour enough to roll, 
Ginger to taste. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

Half teacup! ul butter, 
Half teacupful brown sugar, 
Half teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful and a half flour, 
Half teacupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One tablespoonful ginger, 
Two eggs. 



Soft Ginger Cake, 

Two teacupsful molasses, 

One teacupful sugar, 

One teacupful mixed butter and lard, 

Four teacupsful and a half flour, 

One teacupful sour milk or water, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Or with water, four teaspoonsful baking powder, 

Two tablespoonsful ginger, 

One teaspoonful cloves. 



Soft Ginger Bread, 

One teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 



216 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teacupful molasses, 

Five teacnpsful flour, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Three eggs, 

One tablespoonful and a half ginger, 

Cinnamon and allspice to the taste. 



Ginger Snaps* 

(ben. watson's.) 
Half pound butter, 
Half pound sugar, 
One pint New Orleans molasses, 
One ounce ginger. 
Flour enough to make very stiff dough; work 
smooth and roll thin, cut with a small cutter. Bake 
dark brown. 



Sponge Ginger Bread. 

Melt a piece of butter the size of a hen's eg^ 

One pint New Orleans molasses, 

One tablespoonful ginger, 

One quart flour. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of saleratus in half a pint 
sour milk, strain and mix ; add flour enough to enable 
you to roll about an inch thick, and bake in a quick 
oven. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 217 



Ginger Cakes. 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

Two coffeecupsful molasses, 
One coffeecupful lard, 
One tablespoonful ginger, 
One tablespoonful mustard, 
One tablespoonful soda, 
Flour enough to make very soft, 
Roll tliin and bake quickly. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 

One coffeecupful butter, 
, One pint molasses, 

One tablespoonful ginger, 

One pint flour, 

Two eggs, 

Two tablespoon sful saleratus, 

Half pint sour milk. 
Flour to make as stiff batter as pound cake. 



J ambles. 



Three teacupsful sugar, 
Two teacupsful butter, 
Three eggs, 

Four tablespoon sful sour cream, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Roll thin, sprinkle with coffee sugar thickly on 
the top before placing in the oven. 
—18 



218 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

( JANE ILES. ) 

One pint New Orleans molasses, 
Two tablespoonsfnl butter, 
Three pints and a half flour, 
Two tablespoonsfnl ginger, 
Half pint sour milk, 
One tablespoonful soda. 

Raised Cake without Eggs. 

Stir together a coffeecupful of light sugar and half a 
cupful of butter; add a pint of warm water, half 
a cupful of yeast, and flour enough to make as thick 
as ordinary fruit cake; rise over night; when very 
light, add a little mace, cinnamon, allspice and nut- 
meg, one cupful chopped raisins. Put in the pan, let 
rise until light, then bake. 



Ginger Snaps. 

One egg, 

One teacupful sugar, 

Piece of butter the size of an egg, 

Quarter of a teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

warm water, 
One spoonful ginger, 
Flour to roll. 



Lou's Ginger Snaps. 

'One pint molasses, 
One cupful lard, 



ILLINOIS OOOX ROOK. 210 

Half cupful sugar, 

One teaspoonful soda dissolved in warm water, 
Cinnamon and ginger to taste. 
Mix them stiff, pound them, roll thin, and bake 

Almond Cake. 

One coffeecupful butter, 
Two coffeecupsful white sugar. 
Four coffeecupsful flour, 
One coffeecupful cream or rich milk, 
Twelve whites of eggs, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful extract of almond, 
Two pounds of almonds in the shell. 
Blanch the almonds and slice very thin, and rub on 
a little flour before putting them in the cake. Mix as 
for other cakes; stir, but not beat, after all is in. 



Cocoanut Jumbles, No. J. 

Three eggs, 
Three cupsful sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful cream, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One large or two small cocoanuts grated, 
Five cupsful and a half flour. 
Roll them out in sugar. 



220 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 2, 

One cupful sugar, 

One egg, 

A piece of butter the size of two eggs, 

Two tablespoon sful sour cream, 

Half teaspoonful soda. 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, if sweet milk is used, 
and flour enough to make the dough stiff enough to 
roll out in sugar. Half package of prepared cocoa- 
nut or one whole one grated. 



Almond Icing, 

If it is wished to ice a cake, as is done for bride 
cake, a layer of almonds must be first spread over the 
cake according to the following receipt : Take the 
whites of three fresh eggs, and beat them to a stiff 
froth; bruise one pound of Jordan almonds very fine 
with rose water enough to prevent their oiling in a 
mortar, and mix them with the whites of eggs very 
lightly together; mix in by degrees one pound of 
powdered sugar, when the cake is taken from the oven 
lay this mixture on very smoothly ; let it dry gradually, 
and when dry enough proceed to sugar ice it. 



Sugar Ice. 

Beat two pounds of double-refined sugar and two 
ounces of fine starch, sift through a gauze sieve; then 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 221 

beat the whites of live eggs till they are stiff, adding 
the sugar by degrees; when all the sugar has been put 
in, continue to beat it half an hour longer; then lay it 
over the almond icing and spread it very even with a 
bread knife. If it is put on as soon as the cake comes 
out of the oven, it will be hard by the time the cake is 
cold. 

Tea or Coffee Cake. 

Four eggs, 

Two cupsful nice brown sugar, 

One cupful butter, or half lard, 

Three teacupsful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Half a nutmeg grated. 
Put the eggs and sugar into a suitable pan and beat 
well together, add butter, and beat all well ; put in the 
nutmeg; now stir in flour, to make it of such a consis- 
tency that it will not run from the spoon when it is 
lifted up. Any one preferring any other flavor can 
suit their own taste. This can be baked in little cakes 
or in square baking pans. 

Pork Cake without Butter, Eggs or Milk. 

A most delightful cake is made by the use of pork, 
(fat pickled pork.) It must be tasted to be appre- 
ciated, and another advantage is, you can make enough 
some leisure day to last through the season. I have 
eaten it three or four months after it was baked, and it 



222 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

was very nice and moist. Take nice fat pickled pork, free 
from any lean or rind, and chopped to look almost like 
lard, of this after it is chopped, one pound ; pour half 
a pint boiling water on it ; raisins stoned and chopped 
two pounds; citron, shaved into shreds half a pound; 
currants, washed and dried one pound ; brown sugar, 
two cupsful (teacupsful measure;) molasses, one cup- 
ful; soda, one teaspoonful, rubbed tine and put into the 
molasses. Mix them all together and stir in sifted 
flour to the consistency of any other fruit or pound 
cake. Put in such spices as are suited to the taste. 
Cinnamon, cloves and allspice, are usually put into 
fruit cake, but in making any cake that requires flavor 
or spices, persons are not required to adhere strictly to 
the receipt if it does not suit the taste. Paper and 
grease a pan well and bake slowly. The best rule for 
baking cake is to watch it closely and try it with a 
straw; if nothing adheres to the straw, and your 
judgment tells you it has been in long enough, take it 
out of the oven. Be careful not to take a fruit cake 
out of the pan while it is too hot. You can put in as 
much fruit or as little as you like. It is intended for a 
cheap cake, and for those who do not feel able to 
always have the richer fruit cakes. 



Cider Cake. 

Six cupsful flour, 

Three cupsful sugar, white or brown, 

One cupful butter, 



■ ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 223 

Four eggs, 
One cupful cider, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One grated nutmeg. 
Mix as other cakes. Put soda in the cider. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Roll Jelly Cake. 

One cupful and a half nice brown sugar, 

Three eggs, 

One cupful sweet milk, 

Two cupsful flour, or a very little more, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful and a half cream tartar, 

Flavor to suit the taste, lemon is nice. 
Beat the sugar and eggs together till light; mix the 
cream tartar and soda into the milk, stirring in the 
flavor also; now mix in the flour, remembering to bake 
soon, spreading thin upon a long tin pan well-greased. 
As soon as it is done, take it out on your bread board; 
spread jelly upon the top of it, and spread it all over 
nicely and roll up, slicing only as it is to be used. 



Dried Apple Calce, 

Very fine. Try it. 

One coffeecupful dried apples soaked over night. 
In the morning drain, chop line, and cook slowly in 
one coffeecupful syrup. 

CAKE. 

One coffee cupful brown sugar, 



224 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One-third of a coffeecupful butter, 

Two cofieecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sour milk, 

One egg, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Spice to the taste. 

/' 
White Fruit Cake. 

The whites of ten eggs, 

Two coffeecupsful powdered white sugar, 

One coffeecupful butter. 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sw T eet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

Flavor with rose and peach water, 

Two pounds raisins well stoned and chopped, 

Two pounds currants well washed and dried, 

One pound citron sliced thin. 
Beat butter and sugar together till it is light; mix 
cream tartar in the flour, and stir in a little flour be- 
fore putting in the milk ; then add flour and whites 
(which must be well-beaten) alternately, stir well to- 
gether, and add fruit till all is in. Have ready a pan 
sufficiently large. It is well, in all cakes, to have the 
bottom of the pan covered with a well-greased paper. 
This will take about two hours to bake. Do not have 
your oven too hot, but keep a steady and regular heat. 
If it should require it, put a thick brown paper on the 
top to prevent its getting too brown. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 225 

Icing for Calze. 

To the white of an egg* one quarter pound powder- 
ed sugar. Beat the egg stiif, and add by degrees the 
sugar. Flavor with lemon juice. This makes it 
whiter and smoother, and improves it much. 



Ginger Pound Cake. 

Eight eggs, 

Four cupsful brown sugar, 

Nine cupsful flour, 

Three cupsful and half butter, 

One cupful and a half rich sour cream, 

Two cupsful ginger, 

Two teaspoon sful soda, 

Four teacupsful molasses. 
Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar to them ; 
cream the butter with the flour ; warm the cream with 
the soda; then mix all together alternately with the 
ginger and molasses, and then beat very hard. Bake 
either in little pans or in a large cake pan. 



Crullers, 

Four eggs, 

Six tablespoonsful white sugar, 
Four tablespoonsful melted butter, 
Four tablespoonsful sweet milk, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
Mix soft and fry in hot lard. 



226 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Cookies. 

Two cupsful sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One egg, 

One cupful cream, 
A little soda, 
One cupful butter. 



Pork Cake. 

( clara's. ) 
Half teacupfuFfat salt pork (pickled) chopped 

very line, 
One teacupful brown sugar, 
One teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful milk, 
One teacupful raisins or currants, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two eggs, 
Cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice to the taste. 



Sponge Cake. 

( MRS. RYAN. ) 

Twelve eggs, 

Sixteen ounces flour, 

One pound powdered white sugar. 
Heat the flour; beat the yelks and sugar well to- 
gether; beat the whites very stiff; add the whites and 
flour alternate ; flavor with either lemon or almond, 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful tartartic acid, which must 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 227 

be put in last. Do not beat after you begin to stir in 
the whites. If this is baked in shallow tins, after it is 
put into the pans have ready some blanched almonds 
sliced very thin, and sprinkle on the top. 

Crullers. 

Half cupful butter, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful sugar, 
Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
Flour enough to make a dough stiff enough to roll 
out in cakes. Fry in lard. 



Doughnuts. 

One cupful sugar, 
One cupful sour milk, 
Two eggs, 

Five dessertspoonsful melted butter. 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Salt, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
Fry in hot lard. 

Snoiv Cake, ( Very Fine.) 

Half pound butter, 
i Half pound powdered sugar, 
One pound arrowroot, 
The whites of six eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add arrowroot and sugar, 



228 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

gradually, beating all the time ; beat the whites separ- 
ately, and when stiff acid to the mixture; flavor to suit 
taste, and beat all together twenty minutes. Bake in 
shallow tins or in small tins in moderate oven. 



Cream Jelly Cake. 

Three cupsful flour, 
Two cupsful white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Four eggs, 

Half teaspoonful baking powder. - 
Bake in jelly tins. 

CREAM FOR THE ABOVE. 

Grate two lemons, add the. juice, 
One cupful sugar, 
Half cuplul butter, 
Yelks of three eggs, 
Stir constantly over the tire till it jellies; when cold 
spread between the cakes. 



White Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, 

One cupful and a half powdered white sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
One teaspoon sful cream tartar. 
Mix cream tartar, sugar and flour together, beat 
well ; stir in (after they are beaten stiff) very gently. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 229 

Newport Cake* 

(mrs. able. ) 
Two tablespoonsful sugar, 
Piece of butter the size of an egg, 
Two eggs, beaten separately, 
One cupful and a half sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
Three cupsful flour. 
Bake fifteen minutes. (Cheap and good.) 



Crullers. 

One pint sour milk, 
One cupful sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Two teaspoonsful salt, 
One teaspoonful soda. 



Cocoanut Cookies. 

Three cupsful white sugar, 

Three eggs, 

One cupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda. 
As much flour as will make it a soft dough. Then 
add a box of cocoanut, (or one grated cocoanut,) and a 
tablespoonful of grated nutmeg. Have the dough as 
soft as you can well roll it, and about an inch thick; 
cut and bake a light brown. 



230 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Ammonia Cake, 

Three eggs, 

Three-quarters pound sugar, 
Half pound butter, 
Half teacupful sweet cream, 
Half teaspoonful ammonia, 
One small teaspoonful soda, 
One lemon. 
Flour enough to make a dough. Roll thin. 



White Cake, 

One cupful butter, 
Two cupsful and a half sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
Whites of seven eggs, 
Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Bake on shallow tins. 



Ginger Cake, 

( MRS. PERKINS. ) 

Three tablespoonsful ginger, 

Half of a nutmeg, 

One teaspoonful cloves, 

One teaspoonful cinnamon, 

One tablespoonful soda, 

One pint molasses, 

One teacupful brown sugar, 

One teacupful butter or sweet lard, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 231 

One teacupful sour cream or milk, 
Four eggs, well-beaten. 
Flour enough to make a stiff batter. 



Ginger Snaps. 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful sugar, 
Two cupsful molasses, 
Ginger and spice to the taste. 
Flour enough to roll out. 



Soft Ginger Bread, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful sugar, 

Two cupsful molasses, 

One cupful sour milk, 

Five cupsful flour, 

Four eggs, 

Two tablespoonful ginger, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonsful cream tartar. 



Snow Cake, 

One cupful and a half powdered sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
The whites of eight eggs, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar mixed in the flour. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 232 



Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, and then 
beat into it very hard a pound of powdered white 
sugar; mix with it a pound of grated cocoanut to a 
stiff paste. Flour your hands and make it up into 
little balls. Lay them on sheets of buttered white 
paper, and bake them in a brisk oven, first grating 
white sugar over each. They will be done in a few 
minutes. 



Orange Cake. 

(MRS. J. BUNN.) 

Make cake as for jelly cake, put together with icing; 
take the grated rind, all the inside pulp and juice of 
one large orange ; then thicken with sugar. When a 
little dry frost all over with the frosting. 



Ice Cream Cake. 

(MRS. J. BTTNN. ) 

One cupful butter, beat to a cream, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful corn starch, 
Two cupsful flour, 
Whites of seven eggs, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Two-thirds teaspoonful soda. 
Bake quickly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 233 



Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, 
One pound sugar, 
Ten ounces of flour, 
One fresh lemon. 
Put the flour in last. 



Sponge Cake. 

Weigh the eggs, and then weigh as much sugar as 
the eggs weigh; take half as much flour and two 
ounces more, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, one of 
soda, dissolve in a little water; wet the sugar with a 
little milk ; beat the whites and put them in last. 



Cream, Cake. 

( MRS. DAVIS. ) 

One cupful boiling water, one tablespoonful butter, 
while the water and butter are boiling, stir in one cupful 
flour ; it will make a thick and smooth paste. After it 
is taken off the fire, add four eggs, and beat the mix- 
ture as hard as possible until very smooth. Drop 
into buttered tins in small cakes, and smooth over 
them the white of an egg beaten to a frost. Bake 
ten minutes in a very hot oven. For the filling of 
these cakes — 

One sheet of isinglass, 

One-third of a cupful hot water, 

Two cupsful milk, 

The yelk of one egg, 

Sweeten and flavor to the taste. 
—19 



234 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Strain the mixture and let it stand till it congeals; 
then put a spoonful into each cake. 



Hailroad Cake, 

( MRS. DAVIS. ) 

One cupful sugar. 

Four tablespoonsful melted butter, 

Half cupful milk, 

Three eggs, 

One and a half cupsful flour, 

Three teaspoon sful baking powder, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 



Common Crullers or Twist Cakes. 

Mix well together half a pint of sour milk or butter- 
milk, two teacupsful sugar, one teacupful of butter, 
and three eggs well-beaten; add to this a teaspoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in hot water, a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon ; sift in flour enough to make a 
smooth dough ; roll it out not quite a quarter of an 
inch thick ; cut in small oblong pieces ; divide one end 
in three or four parts like Angers, and twist or plait 
them over each other. Fry them in boiling lard. 
These cakes may be cut in strips, and the ends 
joined, to make a ring, or in any other shape. 



Soft Crullers. 

Sift three-quarters of a pound of flour, and powder 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 235 

half a pound of loaf sugar; heat a pint of water in a 
round bottomed saucepan, and when quite warm, mix 
the flour with it gradually ; set half a pound of fresh 
butter over the Are in a small vessel, and when it be- 
gins to melt, stir it gradually into the flour and water; 
then add by degrees the powdered sugar and half a 
grated nutmeg. Take the saucepan off the Are, and 
beat the contents with a wooden paddle or spatula 
till they are thoroughly mixed; then beat six eggs 
very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture. 
Beat the whole very hard till it becomes a thick batter. 
Flour a pasteboard very well, and lay out the batter 
upon it in rings, (the best way is to pass it through a 
screw funnel.) Have ready, on the Are, a pot of boil- 
ing lard of the very best quality ; put in the crullers, 
removing them from the board by carefully taking 
them up, one at a time, on a broad-bladed knife. Boil 
but few at a time. They must be of a fine brown. 
Lift them out on a perforated skimmer, draining the 
lard from them back into the pot ; lay them on a large 
dish, and sift powdered white sugar over them. 



Cocoanut Jwmbles. 

Cut the meat of a large cocoanut in slices and grate 
them. Beat up the whites of five'~eggs and the yelks 
of three, and mix with them a few drops of the essence 
of lemon. Mix the grated cocoanut with a small por- 
tion of flour, roll it lightly on a floured pasteboard, 
cut it into rings with a tumbler, the edge of which is 
floured. Butter the pans into which the cakes are to 



236 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

be laid, and after sifting a little loaf sugar over the 
cakes ; bake them in a quick oven. "When they begin 
to J)rown they are done. 



Hice Cake. 

Take eight yelks and four whites of eggs, and beat 
to a foam; add six ounces of powdered sugar, and the 
peel of one lemon grated ; then stir in half a pound of 
ground rice, and beat all together for half an hour. 
Put it into a buttered tin, and bake twenty minutes. 
This cake is recommended as very easy of digestion. 



Com Starch Cake, 

One cupful sugar, 
Butter the size of an egg, 
Two eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful milk, 
One teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 

One cupful and two tablespoonsful corn starch, 
Makes twelve cakes. 



Tea Cakes. 

Five cupsful flour, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
One cupful of butter or sweet lard, 

One egg, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One small cupful sour milk. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 237 



White Cake, 

Two pounds powdered white sugar, 

One pound butter, 

One pound and three-quarters flour, 

The whites of twenty-four eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream, then add the sugar, and 
beat them well together ; add flour and the whites al- 
ternately. This should be very carefully watched 
while baking, paper should be kept over the the top to 
keep it from getting too brown. The beauty of any 
white cake is to have it thoroughly, and at the same 
time, delicately baked. 

Almond Pound Cake. 

One pound powdered white sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One pound flour, 

One teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water, 

One teaspoonful essence of lemon, 

Half pound of blanched almonds pounded 

small, 
Four eggs. 



Swiss Cream. 

Four tablespoonsful white sugar, 
One teaspoonful corn starch, 
The whites of five eggs, 
Put the cream on to boil, then let it cool, and then 
add the whites and boil again, stirring all the time. 



238 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Cookies. 

(mes. goodell. ) 
Two cupsful butter, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
Seven eggs, 
Caraway seed. 
Enough flour to roll out. 



Doughnuts. 

One cupful butter and lard, 

One cupful sugar, 

One cupful boiling water, 

Flour enough to make a thick sponge, 

One cupful yeast. 
Let it stand over night. Then add — 

One cupful sugar, 

Three eggs, 

Flour enough to make a dough, not too stiff. 
Let it rise till quite light ; then roll them out, cut 
and boil them in hot lard to a light brown, dipping 
them as you take them out in powdered sugar and cin- 
namon. 



Crullers. 

One cupful sugar, 
Three eggs, 

Butter the size of an egg y 
Flour enough to roll out. 
Cut and fry in hot lard. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 239 



Citron Marble Cake. 

Mix up anyjiice white cake. 

One pound almonds, blanched and sliced, 
Half pound citron, sliced very thin, 
Color one-third of the batter pink. 
Put part of the white batter in your pan, then a 
little of the pink thrown in carelessly ; then part of 
the almonds, then a part of the citron, then white 
and pink, and alternating each till all is in the mould. 
Have your oven the proper heat before putting it into 
the stove ; watch it well ; if it begins to brown too 
quickly, put a paper over it to keep it from browning 
too much. 



Orange Paste, 



Whites of two eggs, 



Two-thirds of a cupful pulverized sugar, 
The juice of two oranges and grated rind of one. 
The eggs must be beaten up very light and stiff, 

then add the sugar and orange ; spread on instead of 

jelly when the cakes are cold. 



Imperial Cake. 

(MRS. HODQES. ) 



Ten eggs, 



One pound powdered sugar, 
One pound flour, 
One pound butter, 



240 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Two pounds almonds blanched, and sliced 

thin, and rubbed in a little flour, 
One pounds raisins stoned and chopped. 
Beat butter and sugar together to a cream, whites 
beaten stiff, and added with the flour alternately ; one 
tumbler of good brandy; flavor with extract of 
almond; put in the raisins and almonds and stir well 
after they are in, but do not beat. Bake just like fruit- 
cake, but not so long, about two hours and a half. 



Irish Cake. 

One pound sifted sugar, 

One pound butter, beat to a cream, 

One pound and a quarter flour, 

One pound currants, 

Three eggs, beat the whites to a froth, 

Quarter of a pound blanched sweet almonds cut 
small, 

A small glassful of brandy, 

One nutmeg or one lemon. 
Beat the cake one hour, or till it is very light; leave 
out the currants and almonds till you are ready to put 
it in the pan; put paper in the bottom of the pan. 



Jumbles. 

( MRS. MASTERS. ) 

One pound a half flour, 
Three-quarters of a pound white sugar, 
Three-quarters of a pound butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 241 

Three eggs, 

Quarter teaspoonful soda in one tablespoonful 
of water. 
Sift and weigh the flour, put it into your pan; take 
your hand and make a hole in the centre, pushing the 
flour to the sides of the pan ; put in your butter and 
sugar ; beat your eggs well together and pour in ^with 
the butter and sugar; then add your soda and water, 
and mix well, using all the pound and a half of flour ; 
when mixed, take a piece of the dough and roll it in a 
round roll with your hands, and then cut them into 
lengths and join the ends together, making a cake with 
a hole in the centre. These cakes can be made as 
large or as small as you wish. Flavor with grated 
nutmeg. 



Doughnuts, 

Make just as you would for soda biscuits, only add 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

Cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Roll, cut, and fry a light brown in hot lard. 



Splendid Cookies. 

( MRS. WILSON. ) 

Two pounds flour, 

Two pounds sugar, 

One coffeecupful butter, which is ten ounces, 

Six eggs, 



242 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Five teaspoonsful baking powder, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 
Beat sugar and butter together, then add eggs, and 
beat all well together; put baking powder in flour, 
mix well. The dough will be soft; break off a small 
portion of the dough, flour your bread board, and with 
your two hands roll the piece of dough into a round 
long roll ; then take a sharp knife, flour it, and cut the 
cakes off in inch pieces ; they will be small, but will 
spread in the pan ; it is the nicest way for all cookies, 
as the rolling the dough with a rolling pin destroys 
the lightness of almost any dough. By the addition 
of one grated cocoanut, you will will have splendid 
cocoanut macaroons. 



PUDDINGS. 



DIRECTIONS IN REGARD TO PUDDINGS. 



In making bags for puddings that are to be boiled, 
the muslin should be close to keep out the water. It 
should always be dipped in water (cold) and wrung 
out, then thoroughly floured, on the inside; turn it and 
put in your pudding, leaving sufficient room for the 
pudding to swell. Suet and Indian meal puddings re- 
quire more room than others. Always put an old 
plate of some kind in the bottom of the pot to prevent 
sticking and burning. Have the pot well tilled with 
boiling water, as cold would ruin the pudding. Keep 
the pot well tilled, and if water must be added, use 
boiling water. Do not let it stop boiling, as it is an 
injury to the pudding. Turn the pudding over after it 
has been in a few minutes ; always keep the pot cov- 
ered. Dip the bag in cold water* a moment before 
turning the pudding out. Be sure all eggs used are 
fresh, generally beat the whites and yelks separately. 
Do not put eggs into hot milk. All butter used in 
cooking should be sweet and good. In boiling cus- 



2M ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



tards, always set the vessel in another containing boil- 
ing water, it prevents sticking and burning. 

Fruit and other materials used in puddings should 
always be, if possible, prepared before the time of 
using. In families where they can get such things in 
quantities, it will be found a great convenience to 
make a business of preparing currants and raisins at 
least. Take three or four pounds of dried currants, 
put them into a sieve, and set that into a large clean 
tin or other pan, and pour over the currants sufficient 
warm (not hot) water to cover them ; let them remain 
ten or fifteen minutes, then take your hands and rub 
them well to remove all dirt and sand. Pour off that 
water and add more. Let the currants remain in the 
sieve, continue pouring on clean water till your fruit is 
clean, which will be seen by the color of the water. 
The use of the sieve is of great assistance, as it pre- 
vents the loss of fruit, and all the dirt is sure to be 
washed away, leaving the fruit cleaner than could be 
made in any other way. When clean, take the sieve 
from the water; shake it well, and and let it set till the 
water has all dropped off; then wipe in a clean cloth 
and put them in a large dripping pan, set them in the 
stove oven ; watch them closely, stirring till the water 
is dried out and they appear fresh and full ; then take 
them out; let them get cold, and put them away in 
either glass or earthen jars. In this way they can be 
used with less trouble. It takes but a very short time 
to prepare them, and is of great assistance, as they 
are always ready on short notice. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 245 

Raisins should, if possible, be stemmed and put 
away in tin boxes. Every housekeeper knows, no 
doubt, the inconvenience of having to wait to wash 
and clean currants, and stem and stone raisins, es- 
pecially if the pudding or fruit cake is needed the same 
day. In a short winter day it is almost impossible to 
get them prepared in time, especially if the pudding is 
to take three hours to boil or steam, or the cake three 
or four hours to bake ; hence the necessity ol taking 
one spare hour in the morning and preparing the fruits 
ready for the " time of need." If once tried it will 
never be abandoned I am sure. I give this as my 
own way of preparation. All spices should kept on 
hand in such quantities as economy shall direct. 
Each bottle or box should be labelled and kept covered 
or corked tight. Cream tartar, soda, tartaric acid, and 
indeed all such things, should be carefully labelled to 
prevent mistakes. By using these precautions time 
and inconvenience will both be saved. 



Brandy or Wine Sauce. 

To a quarter of a pound of butter put a quarter of 
a pound of sugar and a gill of brandy or wine ; grate 
half a nutmeg into it ; make it hot and serve, or it 
may be beaten well together and used cold. 



Lemon Sauce* 

Make as directed for the above sauce, using the 
lemon juice instead of the wine or brandy. 



246 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cold Sauce. 

Four ounces butter, 
Six ounces sugar, 
"White of one egg whipped, 
One glass of wine, 
Cream, butter and sugar together. 
Add the lemon essence, then the white of egg. 



Sauce for Pudding. 

Half pound sugar, 

Quarter pound butter, 

Two eggs well beaten together. 
Set the vessel in boiling water till it boils about two 
minutes. In making butter and sugar sauce, stir in a 
little lemon essence before putting in anything else. 
It makes it very light. 

Sauce for TZoiled Hice. 

Beat the yelks of three eggs into sugar enough to 
make it sweet ; add a teacupful of cream and the grated 
rind and juice of two lemons. When lemon cannot 
be had use dried lemon peel and a little tartaric acid. 
This is a nice sauce for other puddings, especially for 
corn starch puddings. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cupful brown or white sugar, 

One egg, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 247 

Beat all together to a cream, add lialf a wine glass 
of boiling water. Flavor to suit the taste. 



Liquid Sauce* 

Six tablespoonsful sugar, 

Ten tablespoonsful water, 

Four tablespoonsful butter, 

Two tablespoonsful wine. 
Heat the water and sugar very hot; stir in the 
butter till it is melted. Be careful and not let it boil. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



Butter and Sugar Sauce. 

This is made by beating to a cream two cupsful 
white sugar and half a cupful of sweet butter. For 
plain batter puddings it may be thinned with a few 
spoonsful boiling water. Flavor to suit the taste. 
Nutmeg is very nice, though lemon juice or wine may 
be used. 



Pudding Sauce, 

One cupful brown sugar, 

Two tablespoonsful of cream, 

One ounce butter. 
Stir the butter and sugar thoroughly ; then add a 
little of the cream at a time to keep them from separ- 
ating; add wine to the taste in the same manner, (not 
quite a wineglassful.) Let the mixture melt; it will be 
a white froth when done. Enough for five persons. 



248 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Heat over steam half apint of brandy; beat together 
to a cream two cupsful of sugar, and half a cupful of 
butter and two well-beaten eggs stirred into it ; then 
add the brandy, mixing thoroughly. Keep hot till 
needed. 

Wine Sauce. 

"Wine sauce may be made in the same proportion 
as the above, using a cupful of wine ; heat over steam, 
but do not stir while melting. 



Wine Sauce. 

Piece of butter size of an egg, 

One cupful powdered sugar, stirred till very 

high, 
Three-fourths of a cupful boiling water, 
One wineglassful of wine turned on to the 

sugar and butter, and stir briskly. 



Mrs. It.'s Pudding Sauce. 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One glassful of wine. 
Beat all well together till creamy, and set over the 
fire a few minutes to scald through once, or set it in 
the tea kettle top to heat through. 



TLT,TNOIS COOK BOOK. 249 

Sweet Sauce. 

Work a teacupful of sugar into a teacupful of butter 
with a teaspoonful of flour and half a nutmeg, grated ; 
when it is a smooth paste, stir gradually into it half a 
pint of boiling water; set it over the Are for ten min- 
utes, stir it all the time. This sauce is nice with al- 
most any kind of puddings or dumplings ; wine or 
brandy can be added, that is a matter of choice. 



Chinese Fun. 

(mrs. e. b. pease.) 
One cupful of chopped suet, 
Three cupsful flour, 
One cupful molasses, 
One cupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda in the milk, 
A little salt, 
One cupful raisins, 

One teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves and cin- 
namon. 
Steam three hours if all in one pan; if in small 
cups, steam two hours. 



Rich Lemon Sauce. 

Boil a nice large lemon in plenty of water, until 
you can run a straw through it, then cut it in slices, 
and each slice into quarters ; put to them and the 
juice a teacupful of sugar, the same of butter, with a 
large teaspoonful of flour worked into it; put all to- 
—20 



250 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

gether and stir in gradually half a pint of boiling 
water; grate half a nutmeg; put this over the fire ten 
minutes, stirring all the time. 



Cheap Dessert. 

Cook one teacupful of rice ; when done to a jelly add 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly and half a teacupful 
of fruit juice ; boil a few minutes ; mould, and eat 
with cream and white sugar. 



Potato Pudding. 

One quart soft mashed potatoes, 

Half a pound melted butter, 

Six eggs, beat light. 
Mix the butter with half a pound sugar; stir in the 
eggs, adding half a pound currants or raisins; put in 
a thick cloth and boil half an hour. To be eaten with 
wine sauce. 



Brown Pudding. 

Three cupsful flour, 
One cupful molasses, 
One cupful raisins, 
Three-quarters of a cupful suet. 
One cupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful salt. 
To steam three hours. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 251 

A Baked Indian Pudding. 

Cut up a quarter of a pound of butter in a pint of 
molasses, and warm them together till the butter is 
melted ; boil one quart of milk, and while scalding hot 
pour it over a pint of sifted corn meal, and stir in the 
molasses and butter, and let it steep for an hour cov- 
ered over ; take off the cover and let it cool ; when cool 
beat six eggs, and into it add a tablespoonful of mixed 
cinnamon and nutmeg and the grated peel of a lemon ; 
stir the whole very hard, and put it into a buttered 
dish and bake it two hours. Serve with any kind of 
sauce. 



German Puffs. 

Sift half a pound of flour; cut up into a quart of 
rich milk half a pound of fresh butter, set near the tire 
till melted ; beat eight eggs very light and stir gradual- 
ly into the milk and butter alternately with the flour; 
add a grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of cinnamon ; 
mix the whole to a tine smooth batter; butter some 
large cups and till them a little more than half full; 
set them immediately in a quick oven, and bake a 
quarter of an hour ; when done, turn them out into a 
dish and grate sugar over them. Serve with sauce. 



Steam Pudding. 

( MISS CARRIE HURST. ) 

Three pints sweet milk, 
Three eggs, 



252 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 

Flour enough to make a little stiffer than batter 
pudding, 

A very little salt, 

Currants or raisins if you like. 
Fill the cups half full; put them in a steamer and 
steam half an hour ; eat with sauce ; make with equal 
quantities of sugar and butter, with nutmeg and 
brandy. 



Florentine Pudding. 

( SALLIE FOREMAN. ) 

One quart sweet milk, 

Five tablespoonsful white sugar, 

Three tablespoonsful corn starch, 

Three eggs. 
Mix the corn starch and three spoonsful of the sugar 
and the yelks of the eggs and the milk; put on and 
boil until thick; then take off and put in a baking 
dish; after it is slightly browned, take the whites of 
the three eggs and the other two spoonsful of sugar 
and beat well and put on the top, and bake a light 
brown. Flavor to suit the taste ; eat with cream. 



German Pudding. 



Two eggs, 

One cupful sugar, 

One cupful milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 258 



Three cupsful flour, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Bake and serve with sauce. 



Batter Pudding. 

(MRS. dr. grissom, KY. ) 
Two tablesoonpsful of flour to one egg, and milk to 
make as thin as possible; of course you can make 
this as large as you want, but this is the proportion ; 
beat all together, add a little salt. • 



Batter Pudding. 

JSme eggs, 

Ten table spoonsful flour, 

One quart milk. 



Pound Pudding, (Steamboat.) 

One pound white sugar and three-quarters of a 
pound butter, beat together ; add five eggs, continue 
beating; add half a pound of flour; then add the 
other five eggs, one at a time, still beating them slowly 
together; add the other half pound flour; put the 
whole into a mould with a tight cover and steam, in- 
stead of baking, for one hour, fast, or one hour and a 
half, slowly. By adding beef suet instead of butter, 
with raisins, currants and citron, it makes an excellent 
plum pudding. The sauce is made by taking a little 
good butter and an equal quantity of sugar beat to- 
gether. Flavor to suit the taste. 



254 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Chocolate Custard, (Very Nice.) 

One-quarter pound Bakers prepared cocoa to one 
quart milk. Mix the milk and scraped chocolate to a 
thick paste. Boil one-quarter of an hour; while warm 
stir in three tablespoonsful of sugar, and set it away , 
to cool. Beat eight eggs well and stir into this mix- 
ture. Bake in cups, and serve with a macaroon on 
top of each cup. 

Almond Custard, (Mich.) 

Boil in half a pint of milk one handful of bitter 
almonds, blanched and broken up. When highly 
flavored, strain this milk and set it aside. Boil one 
quart of milk by itself; when cold, add eight well- 
beaten eggs, the flavored milk and half a pint of 
powdered sugar; stir well. Bake in cups, and when 
cold serve with macaroons laid on each cup. 



Pandotidy. 

( MRS. CKAVEN. ) 

Pare, core and slice thin some sour, juicy apples ; 
butter a deep dish, and put in a layer of apples; 
sweeten with brown sugar, and flavor with lemon peel ; 
strew over a layer of bread crumbs and bits of butter; 
repeat this till the dish is full, finishing with a layer of 
bread crumbs. Bake till the apples are soft. A little 
cider improves this very much. To be eaten with 
sweetened cream. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 255 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Three tablespoonsful of tapioca soaked in cold 
water till it is swelled enough; then add one quart of 
milk, and put it in a double kettle, or in a pitcher, and 
set into boiling water, and when the tapioca is suf- 
ficiently tender add the yelks of three eggs, a small 
teaciipiul of sugar, a little salt; stir this into the boil- 
ing milk; flavor with vanilla; then pour half in a dish; 
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth; then 
pour the remainder on the top. You can make it in 
the morning, as it is to be eaten cold, and is very nice. 



Mice Pudding. 

One pound washed rice to one quart rich milk, 
One-quarter pound sugar, 
One teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
A little salt. 
Bake two hours. A little cream added is an im- 
provement. 



Plum Pudding. 

Pick and stone half a pound of raisins, wash and 
dry the same quantity of currants; chop, not too fine, 
three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, put in a con- 
venient basin with six ounces of sugar, two ounces of 
candied peel sliced, three ounces of flour, three ounces 
of bread crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, four eggs, a 
gill of water, or perhaps a little more, to form a nice 
consistence; butter a mould, put a piece of white par 



256 ILLINOIS Q00E HOOK. 

per over t lu» top and round the sides; tie it In a cloth, 
boil for four hours in plenty of water, when done, re 
move the cloth, turn it out o\' the mould, take the pa 
per off the Bides and tob, and serve with Bweel sauce 
round. It maj also be boiled in a cloth. 

l.riNon Drops, 

(irate three large lemons with a large piece ^\' 
double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a 

plate, add halt* a teaspoont'ul of Hour, mix well, and 

beat into a light paste with the white of an egg; drop 

it upon white paper, and put them in a moderate OVen 

OB a tin plate. 

Hattrr Pudding* 

Bight eggs, 

Bight tablespoonsful flour, 

One quart milk. 

Steam it for two hours. Sauce. 



Fap tor a I* ml it hit/. 

Soak a teaeupt'ul of tapioea in three and a halt' eups 
t'ul o\' boiling water and two spoonsful o( white SUgar; 
keep it in a warm plaoe for three hours; till a two 

quart pudding dish three fourths full of rich, ripe tart 
apples, peeled and quartered; pour the tapioca over 

the apples, and add halt' a toaeupful of cold milk to 

brown the tapioca. Bake an hour. 



Illinois cook BOOK. 257 



Sago PuddAng* 

Pick over and wash a teacupful of sago, pour on 
nearly a quart of boiling water; add a half teacupful 
sugar, and a little milk if preferred, brown; when 
cold, pour if over the apples, or mi* the two together 

in a pudding diflh and bake an hour. 



Wane Mange and Fruit Pudding. 
Boi] for a lew moments six spoonsful of dissolved 

COru Starch in a quart pf boiling water; pour it im 
mediately over a quart of ripe peaches, previously 
peeled and quartered and placed in a dish with sugar 
sprinkled over them. To he eaten cold. Instead of 
peaches, mellow pears, apples or stewed quinces, 
ripe plums, cherries, marmalade or jam may he 
u-cd. Instead ol* corn starch, live spoonsful of fine 
tiour, or, still better, graham Hour, with, or without, 
an egg, may be substituted. 

Sfpon ge Pudding. 

One-quarter of a pound of flour, the same of sugar; 
boil with one quart of milk to a thick batter; after it 
is boiled add one-quarter of pound butter to it, mix 
well; then divide twelve eggs, mix the yelks in the 
batter; beat the whites to a stiff froth; then mix the 
whole together. Put it in a pan, and set the pan in 
which you bake it in another pan with some water, 
and bake it in a hot oven. To be eaten with liquid 
sauce. 



258 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Snow Pudding (Splendid.) 

Half ounce of gelatine, 

One pint of boiling water, 

Three-quarters of pound white sugar, 

The juice of two lemons. 
After it is thoroughly dissolved, strain as soon as it 
begins to thicken, add the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs; beat it for half an hour and set it on the ice 
after putting it in a mould. Make a rich custard ; 
flavor with lemon rind grated. Send to the table in 
the middle of the custard. 



Ulce Pudding. 

Wash thoroughly a teacupful of best rice ; add half 
a cupful of white sugar, a quart of water and the 
same of milk. Bake slowly four hours, stirring occa- 
sionally, except the last hour. A cupful of raisins is 
an improvement. 

Sweet Potato Custard. 

One pound potatoes mashed and sifted fine, 
Half pound sugar, 
A small cupful of cream, 
One-fourth pound butter, 
Four eggs, 

Nutmeg and lemon to suit the taste. 
If you have no cream put half a pound of butter. 
This makes two large custards. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 259 

Lemon Puddiag. 

Take four ounces of butter, melt and pour it on four 
ounces of powdered loaf sugar; add the juice of a 
large lemon with the rind, grated, and the yelks of six 
eggs. Line the dish with paste, bake it half an hour. 



Eve's Pudding. 

Grate three-fourths of a pound of stale bread and 
mix it with three-fourths of a pound line suet, the 
same quantity of chopped apples and dried currants, 
five eggs, and the rind of a lemon ; put it into a mould 
and boil it three hours ; serve it with sweet sauce. 



Farina Pudding. 

Sprinkle two-thirds of a teacupful of farina slowly 
into a quart of boiling water; add half a teacupful of 
white sugar and a cupful of milk; mix thoroughly 
and pour into a pudding dish, in which a quart and a 
half of nice tart apples, peeled and quartered, have 
been put, or mix the apples and farina together. Two 
teacupsful of pitted raisins, previously stewed, may 
be substituted for the apples. Bake one hour. 



Apple Custard. 

Peel, quarter and bake rich, tart apples, or stew 
them slowly in a very little water, fill a pudding dish 
two- thirds full. When cold pour over a custard by 
stirring into a quart of boiling milk a tablespoonful of 



860 ILLINOIS OOOB HOOK. 



Hour; wet with 8 little milk two spoonsful of white 

Bugar and two eggs. Flavor with Lemon. Bake |na 

Quick oven. To be eaten cold. 



Rice ami Apple Pudding* 

Pick over and wash a teaoupful oi' best rice, steam 

it until tender in two eupsful of cold water; spread it 

over a quart or three pints i^\' good ripe apples, Quar- 
tered; pour over one 01 two eupsful milk if preferred, 
Or omit the milk, and add a little water to the apples. 
Half a eupful o\' white BUgar may be added at the 

table, if preferred. 



Cream Pudding* 

Beat up the yelks o\' four eggs ami two whites, 

One pint ot" cream, 

Two ounces ot' clarified butter. 

One spoonful Hour, 
A little grated nutmeg, 

Salt and sugar. 

Heat till smooth. Hake it in buttered CUps or paste. 



An Excellent Pudding* 

One pint and a half oi' milk. 
Two eggs, 

One small tablespoonful Hour. 
Mix the flour with eold milk to the consistence y^' 
t hied; e ream; boil the rest of the milk and pour boil- 
ing hot upon the dour, stirring- all the time; add a salt- 



rr.f.iNOiH cook hook. 261 

spoonful ol* salt; sugar to your taste, and when cool, 
two eggs ^ell-beaten. Have ready a buttered dish, 
pour the whole into it; grate Lemon pool or nutmeg 
over it. and bake tfiirty-iive or forty minutes. Jt 
should 1m- out of the oven fifteen minutee before- serv- 
ing. It is delicious to eat cold with jam, tart, or fruit 
pie. 

Plain Soiled 'Pudding, 

Two teacupsful sweet milk, 
One cupful sour cream, 
Two well -beaten eggs, 

A small tea.- pool lful soda. 

A little salt, 

Flour enough to make a batter about as for 

griddle cakes, 
One teacupfn] fruit, raisins or currants. 
Pour the whole into a mould with a close cover and 

boil two bourn. Serve with sauce to .-nit the taste. 



Orange Pudd i na. 

Make alight paste and roll it to the extent you re- 
quire it. Take your oranges, slice them with the 
rinds on. removing carefully the pip- or seeds from 

the pulp. Place a Layer of fruit, well sugared, within 

one side of the paste and turn it over the fruit, and re- 
peat the same course until the whole of the slices are 
disposed of. Fold the paste up at each end, -o as to 
secure the syrup. Boil it in a pudding (doth. It con- 
stitutes, in some families, a tiursery luxury. 



262 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Apple Cream,. 

Peel and core five large apples, boil in a little water 
till soft enough to press through a sieve; sweeten, 
and beat with them the beaten whites of three eggs. 
Serve it with cream poured around it. 



Cranberry Moll, 

Stew a quart of cranberries in just enough water to 
keep them from burning ; make it very sweet ; strain 
it through a colander, and set it away to cool; when 
quite cold make a paste as for apple pudding, spread 
the cranberries about an inch thick; roll it up in a 
floured cloth, and tie it close at the ends. Boil it two 
hours, and serve it with sweet sauce. Stewed apples, 
or any other kind of fruit may be made in the same 
way. 

JBread Pudding. 

Take white light bread, cut in thin slices ; put into 
a pudding dish a layer of any sort of preserves, then 
a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost 
full Pour over all a pint of warm milk, in which 
four beaten eggs have been mixed; cover the mould 
with a piece of linen, place it in a saucepan with a 
little boiling water. Let it boil twenty minutes, and 
serve with pudding sauce. 



Apple and Paste Pudding in Basin. 

Ktake one pound of paste, roll it a quarter of an inch 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 263 

thick, lay some in a bowl ; fill it with apples cut in 
quarters, add two cloves, two ounces of sugar, a little 
butter; put another piece of paste on the top, and join 
the edge nicely ; tie it in a cloth and boil. It can be 
gerved up either in the basin or turned out. Do not 
open the top to put more sugar in, as it spoils the 
flavor and makes it heavy. All fruit puddings may 
be done the same way. 

Lemon Cream. 

( MRS. DR. GIBSON. ) 

Pare four lemons thin, soak the rinds twelve hours 
in half a pint of cold water ; then add the juice of the 
lemons and half a pint more of cold water ; beat to a 
froth the whites of eight eggs, yelks of three; strain 
lemon juice and water, mix it with the eggs ; set the 
whole on a few coals ; sweeten it with powdered white 
sugar ; stir till it grows thick ; take it from the fire, 
stir till cold. Serve in glasses. 



Meringue Hice Pudding, 

Take a teacupful of rice to one pint of water, when 
the rice is boiled dry add one pint of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and five eggs. Beat the 
yelks and grated rind of a lemon, and mix with the 
rice. Butter a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake 
lightly. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add a cup of 
sugar and the juice of a lemon. When the pudding 
is nearly done, spread on this frosting, and bake in a 
slow oven till the top is light brown. 



264 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Light Dough Dumplings. 

One pound of raised dough, make it into small balls 
the size of eggs; boil in plenty of water, and serve 
with butter and sugar, or with sauce. Two ounces of 
chopped suet added to the above, or, to vary the 
flavor, add a few currants, a little sugar, grated nut- 
meg or lemon peel. 

Charlotte rtus.se. 

One pint cream, well-beaten ; a gill and a half of 
wine, four eggs, yelks and whites beaten separately. 
Beat five tablespoonsful sugar with the yelks, half a 
pint of milk, and half an ounce isinglass or gelatine 
simmered together till the gelatine is dissolved. Then 
mix with this, first the yelks, then the white? of the 
eggs, then the cream, and set it aside to stiffen a little. 
When it is cool, pour it into a mould which you have 
previously lined with sponge cake, and when it is 
stiff, put it on a plate and grate sugar over the top. 



Snow Cream. 

( MRS. HARRIMAN. ) 

One quart cream, 

Whites of three eggs cut into a stiff froth, 
Four spoonsful sweet wine, 
Sugar to your taste. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk; fast as the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 265 

froth foams, take it off and lay it in dishes ; it will not 
return to the liquid state even if kept several days. 



Potato Pudding. 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed, 
A piece of butter the size of an egg, 
A little salt. 
Roll out with a little flour, make a layer of this 
crust, then a layer of apples. Steam one hour. 



Pudding Sauce. 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsfui sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One glass of wine. 
Beat all well together till creamy, and set over the 
fire a few minutes to scald through once, or set it in 
the tea kettle top to heat through. 



Velvet Cream. 

To a pint of cream put a very little sugar; keep 
stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved ; then 
take it off, but keep on stirring it till it is milk warm, 
after which pour it through a fine colander into a dish 
containing three spoonsful of lemon or orange juice, a 
little grated peel and fruit marmalade chopped fine, 
two spoonsful white wine. This should be prepared 
the evening before it is wanted. 
—21 



266 ILLINOIS COOK. BOOK. 

Transparent Pudding, 

Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stewpan 
with half a pound of sugar pounded line, the same 
quantity of butter, and some grated nutmeg; set it on 
the lire and keep stirring it till it thickens, then set it 
in a basin to cool ; put a rich puff-paste round the edge 
of the dish; pour in your pudding and bake it in a 
moderate oven. It will beat light and clear. You 
may add candied orange, or citron, if preferred. 

Apple Holl, or Apple Pudding. 

Make a paste with one-fourth of a pound of butter 
to one pound of flour mixed with water, not very stiff. 
Peel and slice rather thick tart apples ; roll the paste 
very thin, as the bottom crust of a pie ; spread the 
apples on a crust, so as to cover it ; dredge on a little 
flour; roll it as tight as possible, cut the ends even 
and put it in the steamer, or wrap it in a thick cloth 
and boil it, which will take one hour steady cooking. 
Serve with butter and sugar ; cut in thin slices from 
the end when serving. 

Soda Pudding. 

(MRS. N. V. HUNT.) 

One pint sifted flour, 
One cupful sugar, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 267 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One egg, 

Two tablespoonsful melted, butter, mixed while 
warm. 
Bake twenty minutes. Served with wine sauce. 

Soufflee Pudding, 

Two ounces sugar, 

Four ounces flour, 

Two ounces fresh butter, melted, 

Yelks of three eggs, well-beaten, also the 

whites, beaten separately. 
A tablespoonful of orange juice. 
Beat the whole together ; strain it into a pie dish, 
which must be tilled only half full, and bake in a 
quick, sharp oven for half an hour. 



Orange Marmalade Pudding. 

Quarter of a pound marmalade, chopped fine, 
Two ounces of butter, melted or creamed, 
Two ounces white sugar, sifted, 
Two eggs, well-beaten and strained, 
One pint of milk. 
Beat all these ingredients together with the milk; 
then crumble sponge cake into it; line a dish, at the 
edge only, with puff paste, and bake an hour. 



Nursery Pudding. 

Slice some white bread without crust, pour scalding 



268 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



milk upon it; let it stand till well soaked; then beat 
well with four eggs, a little sugar and grated nutmeg. 
Bake in small cups half filled. 



Bread and Butter Pudding, 

Line the edge of a dish with paste; put thin slices 
of bread and butter at the bottom of it, and a layer 
of currants on them, and so till the dish ; then pour 
over some new milk mixed with three eggs and flavor- 
ing. Let it stand to soak a couple of hours, and then 
bake. 



Brown Charlotte Budding. 

Butter a pudding mould well, and line it with thin 
slices of bread and butter ; these slices must be cut 
neatly, and the crust at the edges removed ; take some 
good baking apples and cut them as for dumplings ; till 
the mould with them, putting in between the quarters 
some slices of candied lemon peel, a little grated nut- 
meg and some sugar. Cover it with bread on which 
there is plenty of butter ; put a small plate on the top 
of the mould, and bake three hours. 



Blum Budding (Blain.) 

Half a pound of beef suet, chopped fine, 
One pound stoned raisins, rubbed in flour, 
Half a pint grated bread crumbs, 
One heaped tablespoonful of flour. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 269 

Half-pint boiling milk, 
Four eggs. 
Mix all well together and steam three hours. Sauce. 



Molasses Pudding. 

Sift a large quart of Indian meal, simmer over the 
fire one quart of milk, and stir into it while hot one 
pint West Indian molasses ; mix into this, while warm, 
the Indian meal ; add one large spoonful ground gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon; beat this 
thoroughly, as the lightness of the pudding depends 
on it. If the batter seems too thin, add a little meal ; 
if too thick, a little more molasses. Steam it for 
three hoars. Sauce. 



JSread Pudding. 

Crumble enough stale bread to fill a bowl ; boil one 
pint of milk with a stick of cinnamon in it; pour the 
boiling milk over the bread, three tablespoonsful sugar, 
two tablespoonsful butter, four well-beaten eggs, ad- 
ded when the mixture is lukewarm; juice and grated 
rind of a lemon, raisins, or not, as you prefer. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Sauce. 



Cracker Fruit Pudding. 

Six crackers, powdered fine, 
One quart boiling milk, 
One tablespoonful flour, 
One cupful brown sugar, 



270 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Six eggs, 

Raisins and spices to taste. 
To be eaten with sauce. 



Suet Pudding. 

One coffee cupful chopped suet, 

One coffeecnpful raisins, 

One coffeecupful molasses, 

One coffeecupful water, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Flour enough to make a thick batter, 

Cloves and cinnamon to taste. 



Holy Poly. 

Make a crust like soda biscuit ; that is, put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg to one quart of flour, two 
teaspoonsful cream tartar, and one even-full teaspoon 
soda; milk enough to make a paste that will roll out. 
Into this when rolled out, put any sort of fruit, fresh 
or preserved ; fold the paste together, so the fruit will 
not run out, and steam one hour. Sauce. 



Charlotte Husse. 

( m'ferson. ) 
Half gallon cream, 
One pound white sugar, 
One ounce gelatine, 
Half pint madeira wine, 
Flavor with vanilla. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 271 

Soak the gelatine in part of the cream ; dissolve 
sugar and gelatine in one pint of cream and bring to 
a boil ; strain when cool enough, but not congealed ; 
add to balance of cream, which must be previously 
beat up to a light froth ; then beat all together until 
quite light, and set off to congeal according to fancy. 
The cream should be set on ice several hours before 
you wish to use it, as it whips much easier. 



A Soiled English Plum Pudding. 

One pound currants, 

One pound stoned raisins, dredged with flour, 

Half pound beef suet, chopped fine, 

One pound bread crumbs, 

Quarter of a pound citron, 

Eight eggs, 

A teaspoonful salt, 

Half pint milk, 

One gill of wine, 

A heaping coffeecupful of sugar, 

Mace and nutmeg to your taste. 
Eaten with sauce of butter, sugar and wine. It re 
quires six or seven hours to boil, and must be turned 
over several times. In these puddings cut the whites 
to a stiff froth. 



Suet Pudding. 

( MOLLIE WOHLGEMUTH. ) 

Half pound beef suet, 
Half teaspoonful salt, 



272 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half pound pared and chopped apples, 

Half pound sugar, 

Half pound flour, 

Half pound stoned raisins dredged with flour, 

Five eggs, 

A grated nutmeg, 

A glassful of brandy. 



Lemon Apple Dumpling. 

Nine tablespoonsful of apples, either stewed or 

grated, 
One lemon, grated peel, pulp and juice, 
Too-thirds of a cupful butter, 
Three eggs, 
Sugar to taste. 
Mix and bake with or without upper crust. 



English JPlum JPuddlng. 

Quarter pound suet, chopped fine, 

Half pound bread crumbs, 

Half pound stoned raisins, wet and dredged with 
flour, 

Half pound currants, 

Half pound sugar, 

Three ounces citron, 

Milk and six eggs. 
Pour enough scalded milk on the bread crumbs to 
swell them; when cold, add the other ingredients; if 
it is too stiff, thin it with milk ; if too thin, add more 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 273 



bread crumbs ; then add two grated nutmegs, a table- 
spoonful of mace and cinnamon, half a gill of brandy 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Boil two hours. 



The Qtieen of Puddings. 

One pint bread crumbs, 

One quart milk, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

Yelks of four eggs, 

Grated rind of one lemon. 
Beat yelks, sugar and lemon together, and stir in 
the crumbs ; bake till a light brown color. When the 
pudding is done, beat the whites of these four eggs to 
a stiff froth with four tablespoonsful sugar. Spread 
currant jelly over the top of the pudding, then spread 
over this the beaten whites of eggs, and set it in the 
oven long enough to brown it. Serve cold. 



Sallie's Meringue Pudding. 

Put a teacupful of rice to one pint of water. When 
the water is boiled out, add one pint of milk, a piece of 
butter size of an egg, and yelks of three eggs. Beat 
yelks into the grated rind of one lemon and mix with 
the rice. Butter a pudding dish, and pour in the mix- 
ture and bake lightly. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with one teacupful of sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon. When the pudding is nearly done, spread on 
the frosting, and bake it a light brown in a slow oven. 



274 ILLINOIS OOOK BOOK. 

Apple Potato Pudding. 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed line, 
Add a little salt, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Roll this out with a little flour, enough to make a 
good pastry crust. This is for the outside of the 
dumpling, instead of the ordinary pastry. Into this 
crust put peeled and chopped apples. Eoll up like 
any apple dumpling and steam one hour. Eat hot 
with liquid sauce. 



A Welsh Pudding. 

Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently ; beat 
with it the yelks of eight and whites of four eggs ; 
mix in six ounces of loaf sugar and the rind of a lemon 
grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and 
pour the above in, and nicely bake it. 



Baked Fruit Pudding. 

One coffeecupful raisins, chopped fine, 
Four apples, chopped fine, 
One coffeecupful sugar, 
One coffeecupful flour, 
One coffeecupful sweet milk, 
Half coffeecupful butter, 
Two eggs, 
Nutmeg to taste. 
Bake one hour. To be eaten with butter and sugar 
sauce. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 275 

Christmas JPlum Pudding. 

Pick and stone half a pound Malaga raisins, wash 
and dry the same quantity of cun ants ; chop, not too 
tine, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, put it in 
a convenient basin, with six ounces of sugar, two 
ounces candied peel sliced, three ounces of flour, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, four 
eggs, a gill of water, or perhaps a little more, to form 
a nice consiptence; butter a mould, put a piece of 
white paper over the top and round the sides, tie it in 
a cloth ; boil for four hours in plenty of water ; when 
done, remove the cloth, turn it out of the mould, take 
the paper off the sides and top, and serve with sweet 
sauce round ; it may also be boiled in a cloth. 



Steam Pudding. 

Slice a nice dish of bread in squares; then put a 
layer of fruit and bread ; make a nice custard and 
pour over the whole and steam it. 



Jersey Pudding. 

Two quarts of milk, 

One cupful rice, 

One cupful sugar, 

One teaspoonful salt. 
Wash the rice and add it to the milk cold, and 
bake. The secret of having it nice consists in its be- 
ing taken out of the oven before the milk is all dried 



276 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

away. It should be creamy in consistency, and when 
cool it is better than a pudding made with eggs, as 
there is no watery whey. Essence of lemon or raisins 
are an improvement; add a lump of butter. Bake 
slowly about an hour and a half. 



Steam Pudding. 

Dry bread, as much as you may think necessary, 
soaked enough to crumb easy — 

One teacupful currants, 

One teacupful chopped suet, 

One teacupful and a half brown sugar, 

Four eggs, 

Spices to the taste. 
Steam three hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 



Sago Pudding. 

One quart milk, 
One cupful sago, 
Eight apples, sliced thin, 
Two slices of bread grated, 
Flavor with lemon. 
Mix well together and bake. 

* 
Suet Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a pound suet, 
Half a loaf of bread, grated, 
Six eggs, 
One cupful sour milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 277 

Half pound raisins, chopped, 
Half pound currants, 
One cupful molasses, 
Half pound brown sugar, 
Steam three hours. Serve with sauce. 



Suet Pudding. 

Half pound suet, 
Six eggs, 

Two cupsful sour milk, 
One cupful and a half molasses, 
Two cupsful brown sugar, 
Four pints flour, 
Flavor with nutmeg. 
Steam an hour and a half; have the water boiling 
before you put it on. 



Lemon Pudding. 

( KRS. DR. PRICE, FRANKFORT, KY. ) 

Seven eggs, 

Three teacupsful sugar, 

Three lemons. 
Take half the whites to beat separately for an icing, 
which is made with one cupful of white sugar. Beat 
the yelks and sugar together until light ; squeeze the 
juice from the lemons into it, and grate the yellow off 
the peel ; add the largest part of a nutmeg, beat all to- 
gether. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in. 
Make a rich paste, roll thin, and pour one-third into 



278 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

each pan. Bake till thoroughly cooked, then pour the 
icing over each one, and brown it nicely. 



Kentucky Pudding, 

Four eggs, 

One teacupful sugar, 

One quart sweat milk, boiled, 

One pint light bread crumbs, 

One teacupful butter. 
Bake and let it get cold; then spread jelly over it. 
Make a meringue of — 

The whites of four eggs, 

Four tablespoonsful ol sugar, 

Juice of one lemon. 
Pour this on the top of the jelly, and set it into the 
oven and let it bake a light brown. To be eaten cold. 



Nameless Pudding, 

One cupful butter, 
Three cupsful sugar, 
Five cupsful flour, 
One cupful milk, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Five eggs, 

One wine glassful of brandy, 
Half a grated nutmeg. 
Rub the butter, sugar, flour and cream tartar to- 
gether well ; then add the milk and yelks of eggs ; 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 279 

beat it ten minutes ; then add the soda dissolved in 
boiling water and the whites of the eggs. Bake an 
hour in a moderate oven. 



Boiled Pudding. 

Half a cupful chopped beef suet, 
One cupful raisins, 
Two cupsful flour, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Tie in a floured bag and boil hard two hours. 
Serve with rich sauce. 



Meringue Rice Pudding. 

Take a teacupful of rice to one pint of water ; when 
the rice is boiled dry add one pint milk, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, and five eggs. Beat the yelks and 
grated rind of a lemon and mix with the rice. Butter 
a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake lightly. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth ; add a cupful of sugar and 
the juice of a lemon. When the pudding is nearly 
done, spread on this frosting, and bake in a slow oven 
till the top is light brown. 

Potato Pudding, 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed, 
A piece of butter the size of an egg, 
A little salt. 



280 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Roll out with a little flour; make a layer of this 
crust; then a layer of apples. Steam one hour. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

Take one pint of pumpkin that has been stewed soft 
and pressed through a colander; melt in half a pint of 
warm milk a quarter of a pound of butter and the 
same quantity of sugar, stirring them well together; 
'one pint of rich cream will be better than milk and 
butter; beat eight eggs very light, and add them 
gradually to the other ingredients alternately with the 
pumpkin; then stir in a wineglassful of rose water 
and two glassesful of wine, mixed together, a large 
teaspoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed, 
and a grated nutmeg. Having stirred the whole very 
hard, put it into a buttered dish, and bake it three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Fig Pudding. 

Procure one pound of good flgs, and chop them 
very fine, and also a quarter pound of suet, likewise 
chopped as fine as possible; dust them both with a 
little flour as you proceed — it helps to bind the pud- 
ding together; then take one pound of fine bread 
crumbs, and not quite a quarter pound of sugar; beat 
two eggs in a teacupful of milk, and mix all well to- 
gether. Boil four hours. If you choose, serve it with 
wine or brandy sauce, and ornament it with blanched 
almonds. Simply cooked, however, it is better where 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 281 

there are children, with whom it is generally a favor- 
ite. We forgot to say, flavor with a little allspice or 
nutmeg, as you like; but add the spice before the milk 
and eggs. 

Jelly Pudding, 

( MRS. PRICE, KY. ) 

One glassful of jelly, 

Three eggs, well-beaten, 

The white of one egg, 

One tablespoon ful butter. 
Beat until very light. Bake this with a paste. 
Make a meringue of the whites ; spread over the top, 
and let it lightly brown. 

Canary Pudding. 

Fill a pudding dish half full of bread crumbs ; pour 
over it one quart milk; beat the yelks of seven eggs 
well, stir into them nearly a pint of milk ; beat the 
whites of three eggs and stir into it, pour this over 
the bread crumbs. Bake this. Of the four remaining 
whites make an icing, pour over the pudding after it is 
baked ; replace in the stove to brown a light brown. 
Serve hot, with sauce either boiled or cold. 



Macaroni Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a pound of macaroni, boil it 

till quite soft, 
Half a pound of sugar, 

—22 



282 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Quarter of a pound of currants, 
Juice of one lemon. 
Bake till browned. A simple mode of cooking 
macaroni, or tapioca, is to sweeten and boil till soft; 
add the juice of a lemon, and turn into a mould till 
cool. 



Cream Pudding. 

Beat up four eggs a little, strain them ; add a tea- 
cupful of fine white sugar, the rind and juice of a 
lemon, and a pint of cream. Line a pudding dish with 
puff paste; put in the above. Bake half an hour. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

(MRS. FITZSIMMONS. ) 

One quart sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Three tablespoon sful chopped suet, 

Twelve tablespoon sful corn meal, 

One cupful molasses, 

Ginger and spice to suit the taste. 
Heat the milk and scald the meal ; if the milk is 
sour; mix it all cold, and omit the cream tartar. 
Boiled sauce. 



Cottage Pudding. 

( MRS. FITZSIMMONS. ) 

Five tablespoonsful flour, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 283 



Five eggs, 

One pint sweet milk, 
One small teaspoonful baking powder. 
Butter and sugar sauce. Bake in a quick oven. 



Raisin Pudding. 

Soak two ounces of raisins in enough brandy to 
cover them ; take 

Half pound flour, 

Half pound chopped suet, 

A dessertspoonful of ground ginger, 

Two eggs, 

Four ounces white sugar, 
Enough milk to make it a pretty light paste. Add 
the raisins and brandy ; put it into a cloth or basin ; 
boil it for two hours, and serve with what pudding 
sauce you please. 



Orange Pudding. 

(MRS. PRICE, KY. ) 

Slice sponge cake thin; peel and slice oranges, free- 
ing them of the seed ; sprinkle sugar over them a 
short time before using them. Lay in a pie plate 
alternate layers of cake and oranges. Make a mer- 
ingue and put over the top, and set it in the oven to 
brown. For sauce — 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg, 



284 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Enough water to dissolve the sugar, 
A few strips of orange peel. 
Let it boil to a thick syrup. 



Frozen Pudding. 

( MRS. DR. PRICE, KY. ) 

Line the freezer with sliced sponge cake ; then place 
a layer of sponge cake spread with cherry or any acid 
preserves, repeating till the freezer is half full. Pour 
upon this a custard made of — 

Two quarts rich cream, 

The yelks of live eggs, 

One pint white sugar. 
Boil well, stirring constantly until it thickens 
Flavor with vanilla. Let it cool, and pour in the 
freezer over the cake, and freeze well. Before using 
place a cloth wrung out of hot water around the 
freezer for a few moments, and it will turn out the 
shape of the freezer. 

Almond JPudding. 

A large teacupful of finely chopped beef suet, 
One teacupful milk, 
Four ounces bread crumbs, 
Four ounces well-cleaned currants, 
Two ounces almonds, 
Half-pound well-stoned raisins, 
Three well-beaten eggs, and the whites of two 
others. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 285 

Sugar to taste, 

Nutmeg and cinnamon, 

A small glass Jamaica rum. 
Butter a shape and place part of the raisins neatly 
in rows ; blanch the almonds, reserve the half of them 
to be placed in rows between the raisins, just before 
serving. Mix all the other ingredients well together. 
Put in the shape and boil three hours. 



Citron Pudding. 

Beat the yelks of three eggs with two tablespoons- 
ful of flour; when light, add one pint boiling milk, and 
a quarter of a pound citron, cut fine ; put in buttered 
cups and bake half an hour in a quick oven ; turn 
them out and serve with liquid sauce. 



Blanc Mange. 

Boil a pint of cream and a quart of milk together; 
clarify an ounce and a half of isinglass and stir it into 
the cream; make it sweet with white sugar, and flavor 
with lemon, rose or vanilla. Let it boil up once, stir- 
ring it well. Have ready some earthen or any kind of 
moulds, dipped in cold water. When cold, turn them 
out and serve with sweetened cream. Jelly is very 
nice to eat with blanc mange. 



Bibbon Blanc Mange. 

Make the same as the above receipt. Have one 
mould tilled with white, and the other tilled with pink. 



286 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Use the same coloring as for the white and pink cake; 
then, when cold, turn them out and cut an inch thick 
of the white, then of the pink, and put one on the 
other; the two moulds, of course, will make two dishes. 
This is very pretty for an evening company. 



Dried Peach Dumplings* 

Cook dried peaches till very tender, sweeten while 
cooking. When done, and cold, flavor to suit the 
taste. Mash them fine with the hand, and spread on a 
nice crust. Roll and steam. 

Dried Apple Dumplings 

Are made in the same manner. 



Egg Sauce for Puddings, 

(MRS. N. V. HUNT.) 

One cupful sugar, 

Half cupful butter, 

One glassful sherry wine, 

One egg, beat white and yelk separately. 
Then beat all together and set it over a boiling tea- 
kettle. Do not stir it after it has been set on the tea- 
kettle. Let it heat through. 

Green Apple Dumplings. 

Make a dough as you would for soda biscuit, roll 
into pieces large enough to hold an apple, after it has 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 287 

been peeled and cored; roll an apple in each piece, 
and secure the crust with flour, that it will not burst 
open ; grease a steamer well and put your dumplings in 
and set them over a pot of "Soiling water. Be sure, in 
boiling or steaming anything, to always have a kettle 
kept full of boiling water to add as the other boils 
away. Cold water will check the steam and make the 
dumplings heavy. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cupful chopped suet, 
One cupful molasses, 
One pint fruit, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonfnl soda mixed in molasses, 
Four cupsful flour, 
Spice to suit the taste. 
Steam three hours. Any kind of sauce. 



Poor Man's Pudding. 

One pint sweet milk, 
Four eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful flour, 
A little salt. 



Potato Pudding. 

One pound sugar, 

Half a pound butter, 

Three-quarters of a pound mashed potatoes. 



288 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Nine eggs, 
Spices to the taste, 
Half pint cream. 



Pudding, 

Four cupsful bread, after ii is soaked in milk, 
Sugar to the taste, 
One tablespoonful butter, 
One pint of fruit of any kind, 
Three eggs, 
One handful of flour. 
Boil two hours. ~No soda. 



Meringues. 

Whites of three eggs, 
One coffeecupful of coffee sugar, 
Flavor with lemon. 
Drop on buttered paper or tins. Set in the stove 
and slightly brown. 

French Pudding. 

Break three eggs into a bowl without separating 
them; add one teacupful powdered sugar, and beat 
them light; add half a cupful flour with one tea- 
spoonful and half baking powder, and a little water. 
Spread on jelly or sweetmeats of any kind when cool, 
and over this the whites of two eggs beaten up with 
two tablespoonsful of sugar and a little lemon. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 289 

Tapioca Pudding, 

Pare and core six large apples, fill them with sugar : 
pour over them one teacupful of tapioca, previously 
soaked in cold water for two hours ; season with lemon 
or cinnamon ; add more sugar and a little pinch of salt ; 
place the apples in a dish and fill around them with 
water. Bake one hour. Eat with cream. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Half pound sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

Half a cocoanut, 

Six eggs, whites only, 

Two tablespoonsful brandy. 
Pare off the brown skin of the nut, wash and grate 
it. Cream the butter and sugar; whip the eggs stiff; 
then stir, but not beat, the whole together. Bake 
slowly. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Six large tart apples, 
One teacupful white sugar, 
One teacupful butter or thick sweet cream, 
Six eggs, 

The grated peel of one lemon and the juice of 
the same. 
Grate the apples after paring and coring them ; stir 
sugar and butter as for cake ; then add the other in- 
gredients, and bake in a rich paste; some prefer nut- 



290 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

meg to lemon, in such cases the taste must be con- 
sulted. It is much better to grate, than to stew apples 
for this and all puddings and pies. 



Transparent Pudding* 

One tumblerful of sugar, 

One tumblerful butter, 

Eight eggs, omitting the whites of five. 

O on ' ~ 

Mix sugar and butter, then stir in the eggs. The 
above receipt, with the addition of one grated lemon 
is an excellent lemon pudding; or, with jelly, is jelly 
pudding. 

Potato Pudding. 

One pound sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

Three-quarters of a pound mashed potatoes, 

Nine eggs, 

Spice to suit the taste, 

Half pint cream. 
Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add yelks of eggs, 
then beat all together till very light; add potatoes and 
mix well; then whites beaten stiff, and then cream. 
Bake or steam. 



Potato Pudding. 

(MRS. dr. price, ky.) 
One pound of potatoes, after they are pressed 
through a sieve, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 291 

Half pound butter, 

Eight eggs, 

One nutmeg. 
Beat the butter and potatoes together; the yelks of 
the eggs and sugar together; add in small quantiites of 
the potato and butter; then add the whites, well- 
beaten, and a wineglassful of whisky; flavored with 
orange peel. Make a rich paste. Place in a deep 
pudding dish and bake. Serve hot, with citron, or 
other kind of preserves, if liked, or with anv of the 
pudding sauces preferred. 



Boiled Loaf. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over four little rolls of 
bread; cover them up, turning them occasionally till 
saturated with the milk; flour a pudding cloth and tie 
them tight, and boil an hour; be careful in turning 
them out. Eat with hot sauce. A nice pudding for 
children. 



Tapioca for Puddings 

(MRS. BURK.) 

Should be put into a moderate oven and let dry 
thoroughly. Then grind in a coffee mill, the mill can 
be cleaned by grinding corn meal through it. This 
makes a cheap and nutricious dessert, and is very nice 
cold for tea, eaten with cream. Take belleflower or 
other good cooking apples, peel and core them, place 
them in a pudding pan, and take three or four table- 



292 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

spoonsful of the ground tapioca, soaked first in water 
and sweetened ; pour this over the apples with suf- 
ficient water to cover them. Bake slowly. Take the 
apples out and place them in the dish in which they 
are to be served, and then pour the tapioca over them. 



Souffle Pudding. 

Boil one pound of nice prunes in enough water to 
cover them ; when soft, sweeten them a little ; pour 
them in a pudding dish. Prepare a maringueof whites 
of eggs beaten with sugar, and spread over them. 
Set in the stove and brown lightly. 



Sutherland Pudding. 

Ten eggs, 

One quart of milk, 

Five tablespoonsful of flour. 
Beat the whites and yelks separately ; stir the flour 
into the yelks of the eggs ; then add one-half of the 
milk ; then a little salt, then the whites of the eggs 
and the remainder of the milk. Bake half an hour. 



Cottage Pudding, (Eaten Cold.) 

( MRS. GRAY. ) 

One pint bread crumbs, grated, 
One teacupful sugar, 
One quart sweet milk, 
One tablespoonful butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 293 

Four yelks of eggs, 
Flavor with lemon. 
Then bake and let it cool a little. Have the four 
whites beaten stiff with seven tablespoonsful of sugar; 
spread this nicely over the top, and drop fruit or jelly 
on the top of that and return to the oven for a lew 
moments. 



Mod Grod, (A Danish Receipt.) 

It is made of fruit juice, arrowroot and cream. 
Take- 
Three pounds and a half of currant juice, 
Three pints of water, 
A good quantity of sugar, 
A flavoring of almond or cinnamon, one ounce 
or one ounce and a half. 
Boil this mixture; when in begins to boil add a 
pound and a quarter of ground rice or one pound of 
sago ; boil a quarter of an hour, stirring very often ; 
pour out into moulds and leave to cool. Then turn 
out and eat with cream and sugar. The juice of other 
fruits may be used. 



Cocoanut Pudding. 

Stir one pound of white sugar and a quarter of a 
pound butter to a cream ; take the yelks of twelve 
eggs and the whites of six, and when beaten separ- 
ately and light, add them to the butter and sugar, and 
then put in one pound of grated cocoanut ; lastly put 
in four tablespoonsful of rose water, four of cream 



294 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

and the juiee of two lemons. Bake in puff paste and 
put the other six whites, beaten with sugar, over the 
top and let it it brown a very delicate brown. 



Gooseberry Cream, 

Take a quart of gooseberries and boil them very 
quick in enough water to cover them ; stir in half an 
ounce of good butter, and when they become soft, pulp 
them through a sieve ; sweeten the pulp while it is hot, 
and then yelks of four eggs. Serve in a dish or in 
glasses. 

To Make a Hen's West. 

Get large fine eggs, make a hole at one end and 
empty out the egg\ fill the shells with blanc mange; 
when stiff and cold take off the shells ; pare the yel- 
low rind from six lemons, boil them in water till ten- 
der, then cut them in strips to resemble straw, and 
preserve them in sugar. Fill a small deep dish half 
full of nice jelly; when it is set, put the strips of 
lemon peel on in the form of a nest, and lay the eggs 
in it. This makes a beautiful dish for an evening 
company. 

A Trifle. 

Place half a pound of maccaroons or Naples biscuits 
at the bottom of a large glass bowl. Pour on them as 
much white wine as will cover and dissolve them. 
Make a rich custard flavored with bitter almonds or 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 295 

peach leaves, and pour on the maccaroons; the custard 
may be either baked or boiled. Then add a layer of 
marmalade or jam. Take a quart of cream, mix with 
it a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pint of 
white wine, and whip it with rods to a stiff froth, lay- 
ing the froth (as you proeeed) on an inverted sieve, 
with a dish under it to catch the cream that drips 
through; which must be saved and whipped over 
again. Instead of rods you may use a little tin churn. 
Pile the frothed cream upon the marmalade in a high 
pyramid. To ornament it, take preserved water- 
melon rinds that has been cut into leaves or flowers, 
split them nicely to make them thinner and lighter. 
Place a circle or wreath of them round the heap of 
frothed cream, interspersing them with spots of stiff 
red currant jelly. Stick on the top of pyramid a sprig 
of real flowers. 



PICKLES. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PICKLING. 



There seems to be such a diversity of opinion in re- 
gard to the nse of brass or bell-metal in pickling, that 
one will have to be governed by their own judgment 
and experience a good deal. I have always used brass 
kettles myself, and have never had to suffer from any 
bad effects by so doing. The kettles must be well 
and thoroughly cleaned each time before using, and 
never, (as many direct,) should they be cleaned with 
salt and vinegar, but with good wood ashes and soap, 
or bath-brick, and always kept bright. Yinegar 
should be of the best cider vinegar. Use glass or good 
stone jars in putting away pickles. Always see that 
while in the vinegar, the pickles are well covered. 
Sliced, or chopped pickles of any kind, should always 
have a plate or saucer put down into the jar to keep 
them from spoiling on the top, thus causing many to 
lose the entire jar of pickles. In greening pickles, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 297 

keep them closely covered, that the steam may assist 
in giving them a good color. A little alum helps to 
make them crisp. Too much boiling takes away the 
strength of the vinegar. Cucumbers, melons, and all 
such pickles as require to be put in brine, should, when 
taken out of it, be washed nicely and then put into a 
clean vessel to freshen. The smaller pickles, and such 
as are required for mangos, must be each gathered in 
its season, salted (a day and night are sufficient) and 
dropped into vinegar till time to make and fill the 
mangos. Great care should be taken to have them 
well selected and both young and tender. Chopped 
and sliced pickles must be cut or chopped over night 
and hung in a basket in which a clean cloth has been 
placed in the bottom. Let them drain all night, then 
empty them and spice and mix according to the various 
directions in each receipt. The water must be entirely 
squeezed out of the chopped pickle. After it 
has drained all night, take what you can well hold in 
your hands and squeeze them as dry as you can. 
Your pickles will be all the better for the trouble. If 
the water or juice that is in them after it is chopped is 
let remain, it will certainly spoil the pickle, by weak- 
ening the vinegar. The grated cucumber must be 
done in the same manner. Tomato pickles are very 
insipid unless they are highly seasoned. The curry 
powder receipt, being a mixture of all kinds of spices, 
well-pounded together and sifted, is a splendid addi- 
tion to the sliced and chopped tomato pickles — one 
tablespoonful of it to the gallon of pickles. 

—23 



298 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

To Pickle Cauliflower. 

Make a strong "brine, and after picking over your 
cauliflower and breaking it in such shaped pieces as you 
like, put it in the brine and let it remain twenty four 
hours. Then take them out and heat the brine, and 
pour it on the pickles scalding hot. Let them re- 
main in the brine till next day. Drain off the brine and 
pour on spiced vinegar ; scaldt he spices in the vinegar, 
but pour it over the pickles cold. 



Wartinoes. 

Gather them when they are young and tender. 
Have a weak brine, and after wiping your pickles one 
by one, drop them into this brine and let them remain 
eight or ten days, or make a stronger brine and let 
them remain till they are salt enough to keep. Then 
wash and wipe them dry, and pour spiced vinegar 
over them. These are a most delicious pickle, and 
persons who are fond of the walnut pickle will not fail 
to like these. They grow wild, but can be cultivated, 
and are worth trying. 

A Fine Cabbage Pickle. 

Cut two heads of cabbage fine, on a sjaw cutter or 
with a knife ; put in a chopping bowl and chop fine ; 
take six green peppers, two handsful of salt, one 
pound of black mustard seed; mix well together. 
Pack in a jar and pour cold cider vinegar over.. Some, 
like a little celery seed mixed with it. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 299 



Grape Pickle, 

Grapes made into sweet pickles are very fine. 
They can be made by any of the sweet pickle receipts 
in this book. Those having an abundance of grapes 
will do well to try them. They are very tine. 



Pickled Peaches. 

Have a tub of cold water setting near, and one with 
boiling water with ashes in it; fill a large skimmer 
with peaches and dip them in the ley water; than 
throw them in the cold water, and with a flannel or 
rough cloth rub off the down. Stick four or five 
cloves in each peach and put them in jars. Have 
some boiling vinegar with sugar, cinnamon, allspice 
and nutmeg; pour over the peaches. Let them set 24 
hours, then heat again, and let them remain another 
24 hours ; then put the vinegar on and let it come to a 
boil, and add the peaches ; let all come to a boil to- 
gether; take out, put in jars and tie closely. 



Peach Mangoes, 

Select large, fine flavored peaches, dip them in soda 
water, to remove the down from them, and with the 
blade of a sharp knife cut out the seed, leaving the 
peach as whole as possible; then have some cabbage 
(the white hard part of the head) chopped fine, and a 
very little onion and a few bits of red pepper pod. 
Spice with mace, cloves, allspice, white mustard seed, 



300 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



(whole,) two nasturtiums in eacii peach. Fill your 
peaches, and pour vinegar that has been boiled with 
spices in it; keep them well under the vinegar, by 
putting a plate or saucer in the jar. 



Nasturtiums. 

Soak them for a few days in salt and water, as you 
collect them, changing the water every few days ; then 
pour off the brine, wipe them and drop them in cold 
vinegar. These are very line to flavor mangoes, es- 
pecially the peach mango. 



Sweet Cherry Trickle. 

(MRS. ILES. ) 

Five pints cherries, one pint vinegar, two pints 
sugar; spiced with cloves, allspice, cinnamon and a 
little pepper. Boil all together one hour. 



Spiced Peach Pickles. 

( MRS. HURST. ) 

Three pounds sugar, three pints vinegar, spiced and 
boiled to a syrup. For a gallon jar of peaches — grate 
three nutmegs, one tablespoonful of cloves, one table- 
spoonful allspice and two tablespoonsful cinnamon. 
Put in a portion of the peaches, and scald in the syrup 
till tender; take them out, put them into the jar, and 
put more into the syrup, and so on till you have 
enough to fill the jar; then pour the syrup over the 
peaches. Do not have too hot a tire, or the syrup will 
boil awav too fast. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 301 



Watermelon Mind Pickle, 

Prepare the rinds as you would for preserving; let 
them remain in soda water all night. Take one quart 
cider vinegar and three pounds sugar, let it boil till 
quite thick syrup ; then put in your fruit, let it boil till 
they are soft; put them in a jar and pour the syrup 
over boiling ; seal them up. Put in a little mace, cin- 
namon and nutmeg, spices make them too dark. 



Sliced Tomato Pickles. 

Take the smoothest large green tomatoes after the 
first good frost, slice them very thin with one-quarter 
onions; put a clean cloth in a basket and put them in 
it, and hang it up and let it drip all night; in the 
morning, put them into a large clean pan, and with the 
hands mix them up with cloves, allspice, mace, black 
pepper, and garlic peeled and sliced thin. When well- 
mixed add curry powder till it has a yellow look ; then 
put it into your jar; pour over it enough of the best 
cider vinegar to cover it well. It will soon be ready 
for use. 



Chopped Mixed Pickles. 

Take a white, hard head of cabbage, green tomatoes, 
green peppers, celery and onions, chop very line sep- 
arately, then mix well ; put cloves, plenty of ground 
pepper, allspice, mace, garlic, red pepper pods and 
mustard seed ; put in a jar and pour boiling vinegar 
over them. 



302 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Med Cabbage Pickle, 

Take the small, deep red cabbage, cut with a slaw 
cutter very line; add a very little salt over night; boil 
a few spices in vinegar, put it over the cabbage cold. 



Cucumber Pickles. 

Make a weak brine of salt and water, boil and pour 
over the cucumbers three mornings in succession; 
fourth morning pour it off', and scald vinegar and pour 
over three mornings in succession ; seventh morning 
scald new vinegar, adding spice, and pour on. In this 
way pickles may be made at any time they are fresh 
gathered, and will be perfectly green. 



To Pickle Oysters. 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get 
in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor 
off, adding to it a dessertspoonful of pepper, two 
blades of mace, a tablespoonful of salt, if the liquor be 
QOt very salt, and seven of vinegar. Simmer the 
oysters a few minutes in the liquor; then put them in 
small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and, when 
cold, pour over the oysters ; cover close. 



Pickled Butternuts. 

(lather them the last week in June. Make and 
skim a brine of salt and water, strong enough to bear 
up an egg when it is cold ; pour it on the nuts, and let 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 303 

them lie in it twelve days. Drain them, lay them in 
a jar, and pom* over them the best of cider vinegar, 
which has been previously boiled with pepper corns, 
cloves, allspice, white mustard seed, ginger, mace and 
horse radish. This vinegar must be cold when poured 
on; cover close, and keep one year before using. 
Walnuts are pickled in the same way, and the vinegar 
may be used as catsup, for it is very nice. 



Pickled Mangoes. 

Select young nutmeg melons, not too large, cut them 
in the side ; make a strong brine and let them stay 
nine days, or longer as required. When you are 
ready, take them out, and let them freshen in cold 
well water all night. Have ready, for the tilling, 
young beans, silver onions, radish pods, gherkins, 
small green peppers, small green tomatoes, cloves, all- 
spice, mace, garlic, black pepper, white and black 
mustard seed. The beans small. Pickles and such 
things are hard to procure at one time. It is well to 
get them as they come in season, and throw them in a 
strong brine over night or longer ; then green them 
and put the best vinegar on them. Put them in a 
good sized jar, and as you get the other things, they 
can be greened and added. When all is ready take 
them out of the vinegar; first green the melons to be 
tilled, and try to have them all alike. Put a little 
sugar in the vinegar while it is boiling, enough to make 
it a pleasant sweet. Add plenty of pepper and 
spices. 



304 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Chow-Chow . 

Three heads of cabbage, twenty-live peppers, half 
pint of white mustard seed and grated horse radish. 
Cut the cabbage line, chop the peppers, and put them 
in a jar, then the cabbage, then a little salt, and 
sprinkle a little horse radish and mustard seed over 
the whole, and so on till all the ingredients are in the 
jar. Fill with cold vinegar. To every quart of vinegar 
dissolve two ounces of brown sugar. 



Pickled Onions. 

In the month of September, choose the small white 
round onions, take off the skin, have ready a 
very nice tin stewpan of boiling water, throw in as 
many onions as will cover the top ; as soon as they 
look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as pos- 
sible, and lay them on a clear cloth; cover 
them close with another, and scald some more, and so 
on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or 
glass, or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the 
best vinegar, just hot, but not boiling. When cold, 
cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. 
They must look quite clear. 



JPicMed JPlums. 

To every quart of plums allow one-half pound of 
sugar and one pint of best cider vinegar. Melt the 
sugar in the vinegar, and put spices of all sorts in a 
line muslin bag, and boil up with the sugar and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 305 

vinegar. When the sugar and spiced vinegar boils 
up, put in the plums and give them one good boil. If 
you wish to keep the plums whole, pick them with a 
needle. 



To Pickle Cucumbers and Onions Sliced. 

Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them. 
Next day drain them for five or six hours ; then put 
them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, 
and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be 
thick. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up 
again instantly ; and so on till green ; the last time put 
in pepper. Keep in small stone jars. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Boil them twelve minutes, and throw them into cold 
water to make the shells come off easily. Boil some 
red beets very soft, peel and mash fine, and put them 
with salt, pepper, cloves and nutmegs, into vinegar 
enough to cover the eggs. Put the eggs in a jar, and 
pour the mixture over them. 



Tomato Pickle. 

Eight pounds skinned tomatoes and four of brown 
sugar. Put them in a preserving kettle, and stir often 
to prevent burning. Boil to the thickness of molasses, 
then add one quart of good cider vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful mace, one teaspoonful cloves, and boil five minutes 
longer. 



306 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



To Pickle Tomatoes. 



Always use those which are thoroughly ripe The 
small round ones are decidedly the best. Do not prick 
them, as most receipt books direct. Let them lie in 
strong brine three or four days, then put them down 
in layers in your jars, mixing with them small onions 
and pieces of horseradish; then pour on the vinegar 
(cold,) which should be first spiced as for peppers ; let 
there be a spice bag to throw into every pot. Cover 
them carefully, and set them by in the cellar for a full 
month before using. 



East India Pickles. 

Have ready a white cabbage sliced and the stalks 
removed ; a cauliflower cut into neat branches, leaving 
out the stalk; sliced cucumbers, sliced carrots, sliced 
beets, all nicked around the edges; button onions, 
string beans, radish pods, cherries, green grapes, nas- 
turtium, capsicum, bell pepper, etc. Sprinkle all these 
with salt; then put them into a large earthen jar and 
pour scalding salt and water over them. Let them lie 
in the brine for four days, turning them every day. 
Take them out, wash each piece separately in vinegar 
and wipe them on a dry cloth ; let them dry thoroughly. 
To every two quarts vinegar (best cider) put an ounce 
and a half of white ginger root scraped and sliced, 
the same of long peppers, two ounces of peeled shallots 
or little button onions, half an ounce peeled garlic, an 
ounce turmeric and two ounces mustard seed or ground 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 307 

mustard. Let all these ingredients, mixed with the 
vinegar, infuse in a close jar, setting in a warm place 
by the lire. Then, after the vegetables have been 
dried from the brine, put them all into one large stone 
jar and strain the pickle over them. Cork tight. 

Two quarts vinegar, one ounce and a half white ginger 
root scraped and sliced, one ounce and a half long pep- 
pers, two ounces peeled button (silver) onions, half 
ounce peeled garlic, one ounce turmeric and two 
ounce white mustard seed. 



Pickle, 

Green tomatoes, cabbage and cucumbers, one pint 
of each; half pint onions, all chopped tine; salt well 
and stand over night; strain through a sieve, and add 
pepper, horseradish, white mustard seed and half pint 
sugar. Mix well, fill your jar, and cover with 
vinegar. 



Buck and Breck, (Splendid.) 

One peck green tomatoes, half peck ripe to- 
matoes, twelve onions, twelve peppers, (six red 
and six green,) one large head cabbage; chop 
them all fine; salt heavily; let them drain all 
night; add two tablespoonsful allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful ground black pepper and one tablespoonful mace. 
Put on one quart vinegar and three pounds brown 
sugar. When boiled, put in your drained tomatoes, 
then skin and slice the ripe tomatoes and put in. 



308 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Boil three hours. When done put in jars and add 
cold vinegar. Stir often while boiling. 



Pickled Peaches. 

Seven pounds peaches, three and a half pounds 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, and spices to the taste. 
Make them whole, and peel them or not, just as you 
prefer. Scald the vinegar and sugar with the spices 
and pour on the peaches while hot. 



Chopped Pickle. 

One large head of cabbage, three of celery and 
twelve onions, chop fine; salt well and stand twenty- 
four hours; drain and cover with vinegar, remain 
twelve hours; drain, and add four red peppers and 
two green ones, one-quarter of a pound mustard seed 
and two tablespoonpsful mixed mustard,one tablespoon- 
ful allspice, one tablespoonful back pepper, half table- 
spoonful cloves, half a cupful sweet oil and a teacupful 
brown sugar. Mix all well, and cover with vinegar. 



Onion Pickles. 

Peel white onions, (medium or small sized,) lay 
them in fresh water all night; in the morning place in 
a jar alternate layers of onions, celery seed, ginger, 
cloves, allspice and red pepper ; add to the vinegar a 
little turmeric, sugar and salt; beat it, and pour over 
the onions while hot. In a few days pour off the vin- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 309 

egar ; heat it again, and pour over the pickles. When 
perfectly cold they will be fit for use. 



Sweet Pickle. 

To one pound vinegar add six pounds of sugar ; add 
cinnamon, a few cloves, allspice and a little mace, boil 
well together; have your fruit in a stone jar, strain 
the syrup over it while hot, let it remain until next 
day ; pour off the syrup, place it OA r er the fire ; as soon 
as it commences to boil put in your fruit and boil till it 
is tender. This pickle will answer for peaches, pears, 
apples, watermelon rind, or any pickle that can be 
made sweet. 



Gherkins. 

These make a very nice pickle, and if gathered 
when young make a nice filling for mangoes. They 
should be gathered when young and tender, and left in 
the brine till they become yellow ; then scald vinegar, 
with spices to suit the taste, and when cold pour it over 
the pickles. 

Mushrooms. 

Be careful in the selections of mushrooms, that they 
are perfectly fresh, throw a little salt on them, and re- 
move the skin from the top ; scald them in salt water 
for only a few moments ; then pour off the water, and 
pour on spiced vinegar. If you wish them to keep 
well, cork tight. 



310 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Catsup, (Tomato Catsup.) 

Take very ripe tomatoes, wash and mash them up 
well, adding a very little salt; put in a clean tub or 
wooden vessel, and let it stand covered all night. In 
the morning, put them in a large brass kettle and let 
them cook well; then take off and strain through a 
sieve ; boil down till quite thick ; about half an hour 
before taking from the stove, put in considerable red 
pepper pods, cloves, allspice and cinnamon, tied in a 
thin cloth. Have ready about one dozen large onions 
sliced tine, and fresh peppers and spices tied in a thin 
cloth, (to prevent further straining;) put the onion 
and spices so tied up into a large earthen vessel, and 
let it stand covered twenty-four hours ; then make as 
thin as you like with the best cider vinegar. Bottle, 
cork and seal; add a little garlic, if you like the 
flavor. 



Pepper Catsup. 

Take fifty pods of large red bell peppers, seed and 
all; add one pint of vinegar and boil till you can 
mash the pulp through a sieve; add to the pulp an- 
other pint of vinegar, two tablespoonsful sugar, cloves, 
mace, spice, onions and salt. Put it into a kettle and 
boil to the proper consistency. Some omit the spices. 



Tomato Catsup. 

(mrs. judge breese.) 
Slice and boil the tomatoes well, (not strained ;) a 
quarter of an. ounce each of mace, nutmeg and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 311 

cloves, one handful scraped horseradish, two pods red 
pepper, salt to the taste; boil this away to three quarts 
and then strain ; adding one pint of wine and half a 
pint of vinegar. Bottle and leave the bottle open a 
day or two. Then cork and seal. 



Tomato Catsup. 

( MRS. HARRIMAN. ) 

One gallon tomatoes, four tablespoonsful salt, four 
tablespoon sful cloves, one tablespoonful mace, one 
tablespoonful cayenne pepper, two tablespoonsful 
allspice, eight tablespoonsful black mustard seed, 
eighi whole peppers, five garlics, two quarts cider 
vinegar, one pound brown sugar. Boil away one half, 
strain and bottle. 



Chopped Catsup, 

To one gallon chopped tomatoes put three-quarters of 
a gallon chopped cabbage, two pints of onions chopped 
tine and three-quarters of a pint green peppers chopped. 
Let them stand one night with salt over them and drip ; 
add cloves, allspice, horseradish grated, tine celery, 
mustard seed and garlic. 

JPickled Peaches. 

Seven pounds peaches, three or four pounds brown 
sugar, one quart vinegar, two tablespoonsful whole 
cloves, two tablespoonsful allspice, one tablespoonful 
mace. Boil together and pour over the peaches. Let 



312 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



them stand twenty-four hours, and repeat the boiling 
three or four times. ' 



Yellow Pickle. 

One pound horseradish dried and sliced, one pound 
skinned garlic, twelve ounces ginger, two ounces 
cloves, one large cupful black pepper, half pound 
mustard seed, half a cupful ground mustard, two 
table spoonsful celery seed, one ounce nutmeg; put all 
these spices in two gallons vinegar. Take hard, white 
cabbage, halve or quarter them, and boil in salt and 
water till you can run a straw into them ; then dry them 
on a cloth, turning often. One day will dry them, if 
the sun is bright. Put them in plain vinegar for three 
weeks, then put them in the spiced vinegar, which must 
be put in a three gallon jar. To pickle onions, pour 
over them boiling salt and water, and let them stand in 
it twenty-four hours. Dry them one or two days and 
put into spiced vinegar. Two pounds brown sugar 
added to this pickle improves it greatly. 



Chow-Chow. 

Three heads of cabbage, twenty-live peppers, half a 
pint of white mustard seed and grated horseradish; 
cut the cabbage line, chop the peppers, and then put in 
the jar a layer of cabbage, then a layer of peppers, then 
a little salt, and sprinkle a little horseradish and mus- 
tard seed over the whole, and so on until the ingredients 
are all in the jar; then till the jar with cold vinegar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 313 

to every quart of which dissolve two ounces of brown 
sugar. 



Pickled Plums, 

One peck plums, seven pounds sugar, half-pint vin- 
egar; dissolve together sugar and vinegar, add the 
plums ; boil three hours, stirring it all the time, and 
take out the stones while boiling; add two tablespoons- 
ful allspice, two of ground cloves. 



Virginia Damson Pickles, 

To five pounds damsons allow five pounds sugar 
and two and a half pints vinegar. Take the vinegar 
and put to it two ounces mace, one ounce cinnamon, 
and one ounce cloves. Let it come to a boil and pour 
over the fruit and sugar; cover close. Turn off and 
scald the syrup for six successive days ; the seventh 
day let fruit, spices, and all come to a boil. It will 
keep for years. 

Walnut Catsup, 

Take walnuts fit for pickling, beat them well in a 
mortar till they are pulped; then squeeze out the 
juice, and let it settle a day ; pour off the clear. To 
a pint of juice put one pound of anchovies with one 
ounce of shallots ; stir it on the fire till the anchovies 
are dissolved ; strain it off clear. To every quart put 
a quarter of an ounce mace, a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and 
—24 



314 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



half a pint of white wine vinegar ; boil the whole to- 
gether a quarter of an hour, then bottle it. It will 
keep three years. A tablespoonful is sufficient for 
half a pint of melted butter. One hundred walnuts 
will produce one quart of juice. 



Universal Sauce, 

Two gallons of vinegar, quarter of a pound of 
cayenne pods bruised, thirty-two cloves or garlic; mix 
the above, and let it stand live days ; then strain it ; 
add three pints of walnut juice and three pints of 
indian soy. Bottle it for use. 



Tomato Catsup. 

One peck of tomatoes, two teaspoonsful salt, one 
and a half ground pepper, two spoonsful ground 
cloves, one spoonful ground allspice, one spoonful red 
pepper, and one tablespoonful ground ginger. Boil 
down thick, and add good cider vinegar. The toma- 
toes should be first cooked, and then run through a 
sieve to remove the skins and seed. If onion and a 
little garlic is sliced thin and the catsup poured over 
them while it is hot, it will improve the flavor. 



Sweet Tomato JPicMes, 

One pint of sugar to one quart of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, and one teaspoonful cloves; slice 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 315 

green tomatoes over night, and salt between each layer 
until all are in. Lay a clean white cloth in a basket 
before putting the tomatoes in ; let them drain over 
night to remove the bitter water from them. Pnt 
them in a clean kettle, and pour the sugar and vinegar 
over, and cook them till tender. Those who like the 
chow-chow or mustard pickles that are sold in the 
stores, can have just as good by adding ground mus- 
tard. Sliced onions are very nice mixed with the 
green tomatoes. But as onions are disagreeable to 
many persons, they can be used or not. 



Salad Dressing. 

One teaspoonful mixed mustard, one teaspoonful 
white sugar, two tablespoonsful salad oil, four table- 
spoonsful milk, two tablespoonsful vinegar, cayenne 
and salt to the taste. Pnt the mixed mustard into a 
salad bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by 
drof), carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredi- 
ents together. Proceed in this manner with the milk 
and vinegar, which must be added very gradually, or 
the sauce will curdle. Put in the seasoning, when the 
mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is 
properly made it will have a soft, creamy appearance, 
and will be found very delicious with crab or cold fried 
fish, as well as with salad. In mixing salad dress- 
ings the ingredients cannot be added too gradually or 
stirred too much. 



316 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Onion Pickles. 

In November take dried onions, small and round, 
peel them and throw them in salt water; let them re- 
main there a few days, drain them; put them in a jar 
and pour vinegar over them that has been boiled with 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon and mace in it. Some 
think a better way is to scald the onions, (not cook 
them,) and throw a little milk in the water, it keeps 
them white. 



Cabbage Salad, 

Rub together six tablespoonsful sweet cream and 
one tablespoon! ul mustard ; butter can be used instead 
of cream. Set in a kettle of boiling water, and add 
two eggs, well-beaten. Then pour in, gradually, nine 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Pour this over nicely cut 
cabbage while it is hot ; add salt, pepper and sugar, 
and more vinegar, if the mixture is not thin enough. 
This should be constantly stirred. It should be of the 
consistency of thick cream. 



Tomato Catsup. 

To every gallon of the pulp, after it has been cooked 
and strained, three even tablespoonsful of salt, two 
tablespoonsful black pepper, one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, two tablespoonsful mustard, one tablespoon- 
ful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful 
ground ginger, two tablespoonsful sugar, one tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper and one quart cider vinegar. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 317 



Boil all together until sufficiently thick. Bottle while 
hot, and keep in a cool place. 



Hipe Cucumber Pickles. 

Pare seven pounds cucumbers and cut in slices 
lengthwise. Soak two or three days in salt and 
water, after scraping out the inside ; then cook them in 
weak vinegar with a spoonful of alum until tender. 
Boil three pounds sugar, three pints vinegar and half a 
cupful spices of different kinds in a bag. Pour over 
the pickles while hot. 



JPeach Pickles. 

Beat together cinnamon, cloves, allspice and race 
ginger; add a little turmeric. Wash firm freestone 
peaches and wipe them dry, cut in halves, remove the 
seed, then sprinkle a small quantity of the mixed 
spices in each half, and fill them with white mustard 
seed and a few celery seed ; jxit them together and tie 
them; place them in ajar with slices of onions, cinna- 
mon, race ginger, allspice, cloves, celery seed and 
cayenne pepper. Stir into a half gallon of vinegar 
one pound of sugar, a half pint of salt, and enough 
turmeric to color the peaches. Pour over the peaches 
cold. 



Pepper Mangoes. 

Select white cabbage heads, chop them fine; add 
salt, celery seed, white mustard seed, ground ginger, 



318 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

turmeric, and mix the whole with a little pure olive 
oil. Seed and fill the peppers ; after washing and wip- 
ing them, sew the side of them with a white thread; 
then place in a jar alternate layers of peppers, allspice, 
sliced onions, ginger and cloves. Stir into one gallon 
of vinegar half a pound of sugar, one pint of salt and 
half an ounce of turmeric. Pour over the peppers 
cold. In about six weeks pour off the vinegar and re- 
place it with salt, sugar and turmeric, as the first will 
probably have lost all the flavor. 



Cabbage PicMe, 

Quarter nice large cabbage heads ; place in a tray or 
tub alternate layers of cabbage and salt, let them re- 
main all night; next day cover them just as they 
stand with boiling water ; let them remain until cold 
enough to press the water out with a towel. Place in 
a jar alternate layers of cabbage, allspice, cloves, 
white mustard seed, ginger, celery seed, cayenne pep- 
per, (green and red,) and sliced onion. Add to the 
vinegar, sugar and salt, (if the cabbage should not be 
salt enough;) have the turmeric in a bag and rub out 
in the vinegar; pour the vinegar over the cabbage. 



I^lum Catsup, 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

One gallon of plums, with a very little water; 
stand them on the top of the stove till they are cooked 
perfectly soft; then set the kettle off and let it cool 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 319 

enough to be rubbed through the sieve, letting the 
juice and pulp both pass through the sieve; when all 
is well rubbed through, put it again in the kettle and 
set it on the stove, adding two and a half pounds 
brown sugar to three quarts of the pulp ; let them boil 
together about an hour and a half, then add a pint of 
best cider vinegar, and spice to suit the taste — all- 
spice, cloves and cinnamon, about two tablespoonsful 
of each to that quantity. When done, bottle and cork 
tight, seal the corks over it, it is safer. 



Damson Sweet Pickle. 

Four pounds damsons, one pint cider vinegar, one 
pound sugar, one ounce cloves, one ounce mace, two 
ounces cinnamon and two ounces allspice. Boil the 
vinegar with sugar and spices, and pour over the fruit 
while hot. This will have to be repeated several 
times. 



Melon Sweet Tickle. 

Three pounds rind of melon, two pints best vinegar 
and one pound and a half sugar. Soak the rind one 
week in brine, then soak it in clear water till the salt 
is out; scald in alum water; then throw it in cold 
water several hours; boil the vinegar, sugar and 
spices, and scald the melon till it is clear. Use the 
same spices as for any other sweet pickle. 



320 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Chow-Chow. 

One gallon unpeeled cucumbers, half a gallon cab- 
bage, half a dozen onions and half a dozon green pep- 
pers. Chop hne, salt separately; let it stand to drain 
in a basket twenty-fours. Mix, scald in old vinegar; 
strain, and add sugar and spices as above, and cold 
vinegar. 



Cucumber Catsup. 

Slice and salt one gallon of cucumbers; let them 
stand two or three hours, then press out all the water 
in a coarse linen. Add four tablespoon sful of best 
table oil, two tablespoonsful white mustard seed, one 
tablespoonful ground mustard, one tablespoonful 
mace, two tablespoonsful black pepper, one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful turmeric, 
one pint madeira wine, one cupful and a half loaf 
sugar. Mix this in a vessel and pour over the pickle 
cold. 



Yellotv Cabbage Pickle. 

One gallon vinegar, quarter of a pound mustard 
seed, half a teacup ginger, one tablespoonful pepper, a 
handful of horse radish, one ounce turmeric, garlic and 
onions to the taste. Keep the cabbage in brine three 
days, then wash it off in Iresh water and drain. Boil 
all together three minutes. 



PRESERVES . 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING. 



Perhaps the following few general hints on preserv- 
ing, for the use of a young housewife, may not be un- 
acceptable. Several of the directions may appear 
needless, but there may be some inexperienced per- 
sons to whom they may be beneficial : 

Let everything used for the purpose be clean and 
dry, especially bottles. 

Never place a preserving pan flat on the tire, as this 
will render the preserve liable to burn to, as it is called; 
that is to say, to adhere closely to the metal, and then to 
burn; it should always rest on a trivet, or the lower 
bar of the kitchen range. 

After the sugar is added to them, stir the preserves 
gently at first, and more quickly towards the end, 
without quitting them until they are done; this pre- 
caution will prevent their being spoiled. 

All preserves should be perfectly cleared from the 
scum as its rises. 



322 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Fruit which is to be preserved in syrup must first be 
blanched or boiled gently, until it is sufficiently soft- 
ened to absorb the sugar; and a thin syrup must be 
poured on it at first, or it will shrivel instead of re- 
maining plump and becoming clear. Thus, if its 
weight of sugar is to be allowed, and boiled to a 
syrup, with a pint of water to the pound, only half the 
weight must be taken at first, and this must not be 
boiled with the water more than fifteen or twenty 
minutes at the commencement of the process. A part 
of the remaining sugar must be added every time the 
syrup is reboiled, unless it should be otherwise di- 
rected in the receipt. 

To preserve both the true flavor aud the color of 
fruit in jams and jellies, boil them rapidly until they 
are well reduced, before the sugar is added, and 
quickly afterwards ; but do not allow them to become 
so much thickened that the sugar will not dissolve in 
them easily, and throw up its scum. In some seasons 
the juice is so much richer than in others that this 
effect takes place almost before one is aware of it; but 
the drop which adheres to the skimmer, when it is 
held up, will show the state it has reached. 

Never use tin, iron or pewter spoons or skimmers 
for preserves, as they will convert the color of red 
fruit into a dingy purple, and impart, besides, a very 
unpleasant flavor. 

When cheap jams or jellies are required, make them 
at once with loaf sugar, but use that which is well re- 
fined always for preserves in general. It is a false 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 323 

economy to purchase an inferior kind, as there is great 
waste from it in the quantity of scum which it throws 
up. 

Pans of copper or bell-metal are the proper utensils 
for preserving fruit. When used, they must be 
scoured bright with sand. Tinned pans turn and de- 
stroy the color of the fruit that is put into them. A 
stewpan made of iron, coated with earthenware, is 
very nice for preserving. 

Canning Fruits. 

In canning fruit the same rule will hold ^ood in 
most fruits. In the first place they should be fresh 
gathered, peeled and let get scalding hot ; they do not 
need to be cooked. The bottles or jars should be 
carefully cleaned and scalded, and should be kept hot 
while putting in the fruit, and then sealed or soldered 
as quickly as possible. There is some difference of 
opinion about the way of putting up fruit; some think 
that the fruit should be put cold in the cans or bottles, 
and the cans set in a vessel of cold water, and that set 
to boiling till the fruit has thoroughly scalded ; others 
prefer the quicker way of scalding the fruit and put- 
ting it into the hot cans. Either way is good. I pre- 
fer the latter way for most fruits. When sugar is to 
be used, the proper proportion is: to each pound of 
fruit a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pint of 
water. Do a kettle full, or as many pounds as can be 
attended to at a time, then fill your cans. Prepare 
more fruit, and weigh the sugar and measure the 



324 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

water, and let them scald thoroughly. They must be 
hot all through, or they will not keep. Peaches, pears, 
quinces and sweet fruit, can be put in tin without in- 
jury to their color; but cherries, blackberries, straw- 
berries, plums, and all fruits containing acid, should 
be put in earthen or glass. 



Teaches Canned Whole, 

This is one of the nicest ways that peaches can be 
up put. They not only look nicer on the table, but retain 
more of their natural flavor, having the stones left in 
them. Select such as are finely flavored, peel them, 
and weigh as many as you can do at a time. To each 
pound of peaches put a quarter of a pound of white 
sugar and half a pint of water. Let your syrup 
come to a boil, and drop your fruit into it, and let 
them cook till they are very tender, but not cooked to 
pieces. Have your cans hot by pouring boiling water 
into them, fill and seal up immediately. It is well to 
lay a heavy weight on each can (if they are sealed 
with wax) till they become cold. 



Plums. 

There are several varieties of plums. The richest 
purple plum for preserving is the damson ; there are 
of these large and small; the large are called sweet 
damsons, the small ones are very rich flavored. The 
great difficulty in preserving plums is that the skins 
crack and the fruit comes to pieces. The rule here 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 325 

laid down for preserving them obviates that difficulty. 
Purple gages, unless properly preserved, will turn to 
juice and skins ; and the large horse plum (as it is 
generally known) comes completely to pieces in ordin- 
ary modes of preserving; the one recommended herein 
will keep them whole, full and rich. Make a syrup of 
clean brown sugar ; clarify it as directed in these re- 
ceipts ; when perfectly clear and boiling hot, pour it 
over the plums, having picked out all unsound ones 
and stems; let them remain in the syrup two days, 
then drain it off; make it boiling hot, skim it, and pour 
it over again ; let them remain another day or two, 
then put them in a preserving kettle over the tire, and 
simmer gently until the syrup is reduced, and thick or 
rich. One pound of sugar for each pound of plums. 
Small damsons are very fine, preserved as cherries or 
any other ripe fruit ; clarify the syrup, and when boil- 
ing hot put in the plums ; let them boil very gently 
until they are cooked, and the syrup rich. Put them 
in pots or jars ; the next day secure as directed. 



Plums Without the Skins. 

Pour boiling water over large egg or magnum 
bonum plums ; cover them until it is cold, then pull 
off the skins. Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and 
a teacupful of water for each pound of fruit ; make it 
boiling hot, and pour it over ; let them remain for a 
day or two, then drain it off and boil again ; skim it 
clear, and pour it hot over the plums ; let them remain 



326 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

until the next day, then put them over the fire in the 
syrup; boil them very gently until clear; take them 
from the syrup with a skimmer into the pots or jars ; 
boil the syrup until rich and thick ; take off any scum 
which may arise, then let it cool and settle, and pour 
it over the plums. If brown sugar is" used, which is 
quite as good except for green gages, clarify it as di- 
rected. 



Peaches. 

Take ripe freestone peaches ; pare, stone and quar- 
ter them. To six pounds of the cut peaches allow 
three pounds of the best brown sugar. Strew the 
sugar among the peaches, and set them away in a 
covered vessel. Next morning, put the whole into a 
preserving kettle, and boil it slowly about an hour and 
three-quarters or two hours, skimming it well. 



Pears, 

Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; 
let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer and 
simmer again. Repeat this till they are clear; then 
t drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a little 
time ; or they may be kept in the syrup and dried as 
wanted, which makes them richer. 



Currants for Tarts. 

Get your currants, when they are dry, and pick 
them ; to every pound and a quarter of currants put a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 327 

pound of sugar, into a preserving pan, with as much 
juice of currants as will dissolve it; when it boils, 
skim it, and put in your currants, and boil them till 
they are clear; put them into a jar, lay paper over, tie 
them down, and keep them in a dry place. 



Pears for the Tea Table. 

Take ripe pears and wipe them carefully ; place a 
layer, stem upward, in a stone jar, sprinkle over sugar, 
then set in another layer of pears, and so on until the 
jar is filled. To every gallon put in a pint and a half 
water. Cover the top of the jar with pie crust, and 
set it in a slow oven for two hours. 



Apple or Quince Jelly, 

Pare, quarter and core the apples; put them in a 
saucepan with enough water to cover them ; let them 
boil live minutes; put them in a bag, and let them 
drain until the next day. To one pint of juice put 
one pound of sugar, and boil it from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Cranberry jelly may be made in the same 
way. 

Strawberries, 

To two pounds of fine large strawberries add two 
pounds of powdered sugar, and put them in a preserv- 
ing kettle, over a slow fire, till the sugar is melted ; 
then boil them precisely twenty minutes, as fast as 
possible ; have ready a number of small jars, and put 



328 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the fruit in boiling hot. Cork and seal the jars im- 
mediately, and keep them through the summer in a 
cold dry cellar. The jars must be heated before the 
hot fruit is poured in, otherwise they will break. 



Raspberries. 

These may be preserved wet, bottled, or made jam 
or marmalade of, the same as strawberries. Rasp 
berries are very good dried in the sun or in a warm 
oven. They are very delicious stewed for table or 
tarts. 



Quince Jam, 

Twelve ounces brown sugar to one pound of quince. 
Boil the fruit in as little water as possible, until the 
fruit will mash easily. Pour off the water, mash the 
fruit with a spoon, put in the sugar, and boil twenty 
minutes, stirring often. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Wash and pick over the fruit, and boil till soft in 
water enough to cover it. Strain through a sieve, and 
weigh equal quantities of the pulp and sugar. Boil 
gently fifteen or twenty minutes, taking care it does 
not burn. 



Peaches. 

Take ripe, but not soft peaches. Pour boiling 
water over them to take off the skins, which will pull 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 329 

off easily. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar, 
and put them together in an earthen pan over night. 
In the morning pour off the syrup, and boil a few 
minutes; set off the kettle and take off the scum. 
Put back the kettle on the fire; when the syrup boils 
up, put in the peaches. Boil them slowly three-quar- 
ters of an hour, take them out and put in jars. Boil 
the syrup fifteen minutes more, and pour over tnem. 



Currant Jam, (Black, Bed or White.) 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the 
stalks, bruise if, and to every pound put three-quarters 
of a pound of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil half an 
hour. 



Currant Jelly, (lied or Black.) 

Strip the fruit, put in a stone jar, and stew them in 
a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth; 
strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound 
of loaf sugar, put the latter in large lumps into it, in a 
stone vessel till nearly dissolved ; then put in a pre- 
serving pan; simmer and skim as necessary. When 
it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. 



Apple Jelly. 

Boil your apples in water till they are quite to a 
mash; then put them through a flannel bag to drip. 
To every pint of the juice put one pound of sugar; 
boil till it jellies; season with lemon juice and peel to 

—25 



330 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

your taste a little before it is finished. I may as well 
add, that I can say from experience, that this jelly is 
excellent, and of a beautiful color. 



Currant Jelly. 

Pick fine red, but long ripe currants from the stems ; 
bruise them, and strain the juice from a quart at a 
time through a thin muslin; wring it gently, to get all 
the liquid ; put a pound of white sugar to each pound 
of juice; stir it until it is all dissolved; set it over a 
gentle fire; let it become hot, and boil for fifteen min- 
utes ; then try it by taking a spoonful into a saucer ; 
when cold, if it is not quite firm enough, boil it for a 
few minutes longer. 

Crab Apple Marmalade. 

Boil the apples in a kettle until soft, with just water 
enough to cover them. Mash, and strain through a 
coarse sieve. Take a pound of apple to a pound of 
sugar; boil half an hour, and put into jars. 



Apple Marmalade. 

Take any kind of sour apples, pare and core them, 
cut them in small pieces, and to every pound of apples 
put three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Pat them in 
a preserving pan and boil over a slow fire until they 
are reduced to a fine pulp. Then put them in jelly 
jars, and keep them in a cool place. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 331 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

Boil the apples, with just water enough to cover 
them, until tender. Mash with a spoon, and strain 
out the juice. Take a pint of juice to a pound of 
sugar; boil thirty minutes, and strain through a hair 
sieve. 



Apple in Jelly. 

Pare and core some well-shaped apples; pippins or 
golden russets if you have them, but others will do; 
throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a 
preserving pan, and with as little water as will only 
half cover them; let them coddle, and when the lower 
side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie 
too close when first put in. When sufficiently done, 
take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the 
stalk downward. Take the water and make a rich 
jelly of it with loaf sugar, boiling the thin rind and 
juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow 
cold, and put it on and among the apples ; cut the peel 
of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of 
the apple. 



Apple Jam, that Will Keep for Years. 

Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good 
sour apples ; pare, core, and chop them fine ; make a 
good, clear syrup of the sugar. Add the apples, the 
juice and grated rind of three lemons, and a few pieces 
of white ginger. Boil it till the apple looks clear and 



332 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



yellow; this resembles foreign sweetmeats. On no ac- 



count omit the ginger. 



Quinces Whole. 

Pare and put them into a saucepan, with the par- 
ings at the top; then till it with hard water; cover it 
close ; set it over a gentle lire till they turn reddish ; 
let them stand till cold ; put them into a clear, thick 
syrup ; boil them for a few minutes ; set them on one 
side till quite cold; boil them again in the same manner; 
the next day boil them until they look clear; if the 
syrup is not thick enough, boil it more ; when cold, put 
brandied paper over them. The quinces may be 
halved or quartered. 

Quince Jelly, 

Take some sound, yellow quinces, which are not 
over ripe; peel them, cut them in quarters, and boil 
them in as much water as will cover them When 
they have been well-boiled, squeeze them through a 
linen cloth, clarify the juice in a filtering bag, weigh 
it, and put it with three-quarters of its weight of sugar 
in a brass kettle. Do not forget to put in a piece of 
cinnamon. Cook the whole together until it has be- 
come a jelly. Take it from the fire, and tie up in 
pots when it is cold. 

Quince Marmalade. 

To one gallon of quinces, three pounds of good loaf 
sugar. Pare the quinces and cut them in halves, 



^ 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 33." 

scoop out the cores and the hard strip that unites the 
core with the string; put the cores and some of the 
parings in a saucepan with about a quart of water, put 
the halves of quinces in a steamer that fits the sauce- 
pan; boil them until the quinces are softened by the 
steam ; then mash them with a wooden spoon, in a 
dish, and pour the water from the saucepan on them, 
which is now of a thick glutinous substance; put 
with the sugar in a stewpan or enamelled saucepan, 
and let them boil for about half an hour, keeping 
them well stirred. 



To Clarify Sugar. 

Put into a preserving pan as many pounds of sugar 
as you wish; to each pound of sugar put half a pint 
of water, and the white of an egg to every four 
pounds; stir it together until the sugar is dissolved; 
then set it over a gentle fire; stir it occasionally, and 
take off the scum as it rises. After a few boilings up, 
the sugar will rise so high as to run over the side of 
the pan; to prevent which, take it from the fire for a 
few minutes, when it will subside, and leave time for 
skimming. Repeat the skimming until a slight scum 
or foam only will rise ; then take off the pan, lay a 
slightly wetted napkin over the basin, and then strain 
the sugar through it. Put the skimmings into a 
basin ; when the sugar is clarified, rinse the skimmer 
and basin with a glass of cold water, and put it to the 
scum, and set it by for common purposes. 



334 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Drop the peaches in hot water, let them remain till 
the skin can be ripped off; make a thin syrup, and let 
it cover the fruit ; boil the fruit till it can be pierced 
with a straw ; take it out, make a very rich syrup, and 
add, after it is taken from the lire, and while it is still 
hot, an equal quantity of brandy. Pour this while it 
is still warm, over the peaches in the jar. They must 
be covered with it. 



Pears. 

Take six pounds of pears to four pounds of sugar; 
boil the parings in as much water as will cover them ; 
strain it through a colander; lay some pears in the 
bottom of your kettle, put in some sugar, and so on 
alternately; then pour the liquor off the pear skins 
over; boil them until they begin to look transparent, 
then take them out, let the juice cool, and clarify it; 
put the pears in again, and add some ginger; boil till 
done ; let the liquor boil after taking them out until it 
is reduced to a syrup. 

Pears for the Table. 

Peel three pounds of pears and place them in a 
stewpan ; cover them with water, and let them stew 
two hours. Take them out and put them in a brown 
jar with three-fourths of a pound of loaf sugar and 
two tablespoonsful of the water they were stewed in to 
each pound. Add a little candied lemon, cut in small 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 335 

pieces, or a few cloves, if preferred. Place the cover 
on the jar, and stew them in an oven for two hours. 
Sometimes they require a little longer time. Golden 
syrup sufficient to cover them may be substituted for 
sugar and water. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Weigh the fruit, and add three-quarters of the 
weight of sugar ; put the former into a preserving pan, 
boil, and break it ; stir constantly, and let it boil very 
quickly ; when the juice has boiled an hour, add the 
sugar and simmer half an hour. In this way the jam 
is superior in color and flavor to that which is made by 
putting the sugar in at first. 



Currant Jelly. 

Put your currants into a stone pot, and set them into 
a pot of water over the lire. Haviug strained the 
juice of these heated currants through a cloth, 
measure it, and to each pint allow a pound of sugar. 
Put your sugar into the oven in a shallow pan, and let 
it heat through, but be careful not to scorch it. Have 
your currant juice hot, and put in the sugar hot, and 
let both boil together four minutes. This is very nice, 
if carefully made. 

Cantelope Mind. 

Take one pound of rind, not quite mellow, and cut 
the outside carefully off; lay it in a bowl and sprinkle 



33G ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



over it one teaspoonful of alum ; cover it with boiling 
water, and let it stand all night ; then dry it in a cloth, 
scald it in ginger tea, but do not boil it; then dry it 
again in a cloth; to one pound of rind allow one 
pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Boil it an 
hour. 



Citron. 

Cut the citron the round way of the citron; take off 
the rind, take out the seed ; it should be cut about an 
inch thick, and can then be cut into any shape to suit 
the fancy ; soak it in soda water two or three hours ; 
then rinse it in clear, cold water ; wipe it dry or let it 
drain till the water is all off. Allow a pound of white 
sugar to each pound of citron; do not add a great 
deal of water; let the syrup boil well and skim it; 
then put in your fruit. Be careful it does not cook 
dark, nor let it become too thick, or it will turn to 
sugar. Boil in a cuj) an ounce of the best race ginger, 
and add the water to the preserves while cooking. The 
ginger should be pounded to make it soft. Renew the 
water on the ginger till it is soft; then add the ginger 
to the preserves. This way of giving it the ginger 
taste is the cheapest, but candied ginger can be pur- 
chased at the confectioneries, which will be much 
nicer, and can be eaten as well as the citron. Two 
lemons should be added, slice them, leaving the rind 
on. The syrup can be cooked down, and makes a 
most splendid jelly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 337 

Chewy* 

I have no doubt that all housekeepers have had the 
same experience in regard to cherry preserves, and 
that is, that after being made for some time, they al- 
ways become strong. To avoid this, squeeze out all 
the juice with the hand, (the juice can be used for 
cordial or " royal acid," a receipt in this book,) and 
then wash the cherries in two or three waters of good, 
cold well water. Take one pound of white sugar to 
each pound of cherries; add water enough to cook 
them. Do not put too much, or it will make them 
dark by long cooking. If you want cherry preserves 
that you can eat, and that will keep sweet as long as 
you have them, try this way, and you will never want 
to make them any other way. 



Tomato. 

Take tomatoes, not too large, (either red or yellow,) 
„ scald and skin them ; add one pound of white sugar 
to every pound of tomatoes. Let them stand over 
night, then take out the tomatoes and boil the syrup, 
and skim it well. Add tomatoes and boil till done. 
Flavor with stick cinnamon. 



Tomato Marmalade. 

( MRS. DR. STEWART. ) 

To every pound of tomatoes one pound of sugar; 
peel the skin off and add sugar without any water, one 
ounce of ginger powdered, and juice of two lemons, 



338 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

rind grated, to every three pounds of fruit. Boil until 
a thick jam, and cover while hot. 



Damson Sauce. 

Twelve pounds ripe damsons, four pounds of cider 
vinegar and three pounds of sugar. Boil till the 
damsons are soft; take them out and mash them, 
and then put them back into the syrup and boil from a 
half to three-quarters of an hour, stirring them and 
watching them closely, that they do not stick to the 
kettle or burn. 



For Canning Corn. 

After the corn is first cut from the cob, boil it, and 
when cooked almost as much as for the table, to a large 
iron stove pot of the boiling corn, put one teaspoon- 
ful and a half tartaric acid. Use only glass jars, as 
nothing else will do. When you prepare it for the 
table in winter, after it boils use a small teaspoonful of 
soda to destroy the acid taste; then season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. I have this receipt from a Ken- 
tucky lady, who says it is perfectly delightful, and will 
keep splendidly. She has tried it for years, and never 
fails. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Strawberry Ice Cream* 

Take one pint strawberries, one pint cream, nearly 
half a pound of powdered white sugar and the juice 
of one lemon. Mash the fruit through a sieve or very 
line with the hand ; the sieve will remove the seed, if 
it is preferred. Mix with the other articles, and 
freeze. A little new milk added will make the whole 
freeze more quickly. 

Raspberry ice cream is made in the same manner. 



Italian Snow. 

Two pounds white sugar, the juice of six lemons, 
two quarts water and twenty-four whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Mix the water, juice and 
sugar well together, then add the eggs, stir all to- 
gether, put into a freezer and stir till it freezes. 



340 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Itallienne Ice. 

Boil two quarts rich cream; have . ready fourteen 
ounces of ground mocha coffee; when boiling hot, 
pour the cream over the coffee ; cover very tightly, and 
let it infuse for two hours. ■ Then take ten eggs, very 
fresh, separate the whites from the yelks, whip lightly 
the whites ; then pour the coffee and cream through a 
very line sieve and stir in the whites, and add sugar to 
suit the taste. Put this on the iire for a few moments, 
then strain ; when cold, put into a freezer and freeze. 

Chocolate ices are made in about the same way. 
Grate half a pound best French chocolate into one 
quart milk or cream ; let it boil till thiek, add sugar; 
stir well. Let it get cold, and freeze. 



Strawberry Water Ice. 

Have fresh nice strawberries, rub them through a 
sieve ; add the juice of one lemon. Make a strong, 
tolerably thick syrup, and when cold, add the straw- 
berry juice and lemon. Freeze well. 

Lemon Ice. 

Lemon juice and water, each half a pint, and strong 
syrup one pint. The rind of the lemon should be 
rasped off before squeezing with the sugar. Mix the 
whole, strain after standing an hour, and freeze. Beat- 
up with a little sugar the whites of three or four eggs, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 341 

and as the ice is beginning tc set, work this in with a 
wooden paddle or spoon, it will greatly improve the 



ice. 



Orange water ice is made in the same way. 



Pineapples 

Chopped line, sweetened delicately, and nice ma- 
deira wine poured over them and frozen, is delicious. 



Peaches. 

Nutmeg grated over peaches is a great improve- 
ment. Try it. 

Ice Cream. 

Take one gallon of rich cream, sweeten delicately, 
and flavor with vanilla or lemon. Set the cream in a 
tin bucket, and let it get ice cold ; then whip to a stiff 
froth. Put it in the freezer and keep it well stirred, 
unless the " patent " freezer is used. 



Lemon Syrup, (To Save the Lemon.) 

When you have lemons that are likely to spoil or 
dry up, take the insides which are yet sound, squeeze 
out the juice, and to each pint put a pound and a half 
white sugar and a little of the peel ; boil for a few 
minutes, strain and cork for use. This will not re- 
quire any acid, and half a teaspoonful of soda to 
three-quarters of a glassful of water, with two or 



342 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

three tablespoonsful of syrup, will make a foaming 
glass. 

Cream Soda, (This is Splendid.) 

Coffee sugar four pounds, water three pints, three 
grated nutmegs, whites of ten eggs well-beaten, gum 
arabic one ounce, oil of lemon twenty drops, or ex- 
tract equal to that amount. By using oils of other 
fruits, you can make as many flavors from this as you 
desire or prefer. Mix all well, and place over a gentle 
fire, and stir well about thirty minutes ; remove from 
the fire, strain, and divide into two parts ; into half put 
eight ounces supercarbonate of soda, and into the other 
half put six ounces tartaric acid; shake well, and 
when cold, they are ready to use. By pouring three 
or four spoonsful from both parts into separate glasses 
which are one third full of cold water, stir each and 
pour together, and you have as nice a glass of cream 
soda as was ever drank, which you can drink at your 
leisure, as the gum and eggs hold the gas. 



Cheap lee Cream. 

Six quarts milk and Oswego corn starch half a 
pound; first dissolve the starch in one quart of the 
milk; then mix all together and just simmer a little, 
(not to boil ;) sweeten and flavor to suit the taste, or 
make it as the following receipt: Irish moss one 
ounce and a half and milk one gallon. First soak the 
moss in a little cold water for an hour, and rinse well 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 343 

to clear it of sand ; then steep it for an hour in the 
milk just at the boiling point, but not to boil; two or 
three whites of eggs, well-beaten, and added after it is 
cold is an improvement. Beat while freezing. 

Wine Jelly. 

For one package of gelatine or one ounce isinglass, 
pour one pint cold water, and let it stand ten minutes ; 
then add one pint boiling water, one pound white 
sugar and whites and shells of two eggs. Then mix 
all with isinglass. Boil five minutes and strain 
through a flannel bag. Be sure not to squeeze it. 
Flavor with wine to the taste. 



Splendid Ginger Pop. 

Five gallons and a half water, quarter of a pound 
bruised ginger root, half an ounce tartaric acid, two 
pounds and a half white sugar, whites of three eggs, 
well beaten, one teaspoonful lemon oil and one gill 
yeast. Boil the root for thirty minutes in one gallon 
of the water, strain off, and put the oil in while hot. 
Mix, make over night, and in the morning skim and 
bottle, keeping out sediments. 



Elderberry Wine. 

Elderberry juice two (pi arts, water one quart and 
brown sugar three pounds. Jam the elderberries 
well, squeeze out the juice and measure it. If you 



344 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

rinse out the juice that remains in the squeezed ber- 
ries, measure it or the water you pour on it, and 
reckon it as so much of the water you are to add. 
The above will make a very rich wine, but half water, 
with three pounds of sugar to the gallon of liquid will 
be a very good wine. After dissolving thoroughly the 
sugar in the liquid, fill the vessel full ; set it in a cool 
place to ferment, and pour off all impurities and keep 
the vessel full by adding some of the liquid kept in 
reserve for that purpose, or fill up with water. 
When the fermentation is nearly or quite done, stop 
the vessel tight and let it stand, the longer the better; 
will be good in a few weeks, but much better in a few 
years. 



Blackberry Cordial, 

Select the ripest blackberries, mash them well; put 
them into a jelly bag in small quantities and squeeze 
out all the juice ; for every quart of juice allow one 
pound white sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving 
kettle and pour the juice over it. "When the sugar is 
all melted, set it on the fire ; add half an ounce cloves, 
allspice and cinnamon. Boil till well cooked, and 
when cold, to every quart of syrup add half a pint of 
French brandy. Stir all well together and bottle the 
cordial for use. It is best to pound the spices and tie 
them in a thin piece of muslin, to prevent having to 
strain again. 



ILLIN0I8 COOK BOOK. 345 

Acid Royal. 

( MRS. P. B. PRICE. ) 

Three ounces citric acid dissolved in one quart of 
water; cover the cherries with it and let it stand six 
<>r eight hours ; strain off the juice and pour it on an- 
other bowl of cherries, and let that remain the same 
length of time ; then strain and add to each pint of 
juice one pint of white sugar. Boil it in a porcelain 
kettle; skim, bottle and cork while hot. 



JEgg Nog —The Best Ever Made. 

i 

The yelks of sixteen eggs, twelve tablespoonsful of 

loaf sugar; beat to the consistency of cream, to this 
add two-thirds of a nutmeg; beat well together; mix 
in half pint best brandy, a glassful Jamaica rum and 
two wine glassesful of madeira wine; have the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth and stir into the above mixture. 
When done, stir in six pints rich sweet milk. 



Cocoanut Candy. 

Pare and cut half a pound cocoanut in strips or 
grate; dissolve half a pound loaf sugar with two 
tablespoonsful hot water; boil and stir in cocoanut. 
Flavor with lemon. 



Sugar Candy. 

( MRS. BUNN. ) 

One quart white sugar, one pint water, a lump of 

—26 



346 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful vinegar 
and the same of vanilla. Pull till white ; try in a 
little water before taking up, if hard and crisp, it is 
done ; put the vanilla in after the candy is taken from 
the stove before putting the pans to cool. 



Sutter Scotch, 

( MRS. WM. TITRNEY. ) 

One cupful sugar, one cupful molasses, one table- 
spoonful water, one large tablespoonful butter and a 
teaspoonful vinegar. Flavor with lemon. 



Cream Candy. 

( MRS. WM. TURNEY. ) 

Three pounds loaf sugar and half a pint water. 
Cook on a slow lire for half an hour ; add one tea- 
spoonful dissolved gum arabic and one tablespoonful 
vinegar. Boil until brittle and pull into long sticks. 



Cocoa Candy. 

The whites of four eggs, half pound sifted sugar 
and grated cocoanut. Stir together until stiff; then 
form into cakes and bake in a moderate oven until 
brown. 



To JLeep Silver Always Bright. 

Silver, in constant use, should be washed every day 
in a pan of suds made of good white soap and warm 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 347 

water; drying it with old soft linen cloths. Twice a 
week (after this washing) give it a thorough brighten- 
ing with finely powdered whiting, mixed to a thin paste 
with alcohol, rubbing longer and harder where there 
are stains. Then wipe this off, and polish with clean 
soft old linen. Silver is cleaned in this manner at the 
best hotels. 



To Destroy Worms in Garden Walks. 

Pour into the worm holes a strong lye made of 
wood ashes, lime and water; or, if more convenient, 
use for this purpose strong salt and water. 



To Clean Brass. 

Rub the tarnished or rusted brass by means of a 
cloth or sponge, with diluted acid, such as sulphuric, 
or even with strong vinegar. Afterward wash it with 
hot water to remove the acid, and finish with dry 
whiting. 

A Strong Paste for Paper. 

To two large spoonfuls of fine flour put as much 
pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling ; mix with as 
much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, 
and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 



Preserving Eggs for Winter. 

Pack them in a clean vessel, with the small end 
down, strewing bran between each layer, then place 



348 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

one or two thicknesses of brown paper over the top, 
and cover with about an inch or an inch and a half of 
salt. Cover close and keep in a cool place, and they 
will be much better than the old method of salting 
down, which only hardens them. 



To Tell Good Eggs. 

If you desire to be certain that your eggs are good 
and fresh, put them in water ; if the buts turn up, they 
are not fresh. This is an infallible rule to distinguish 
a good egg from a bad one. 



Currant Wine, 

( MRS. DICK YOUNG. ) 

One quart currant juice, two quarts water and three 
pounds good brown sugar. Put into a cask, leave the 
bung out till fermentation has ceased, then rack off 
and bottle. Squeeze the juice out of the currants 
without heating them, and to every quart of the juice 
use the above proportion. 

Blackberry and Currant Wine. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

To every gallon of fruit put one quart of watei 
boiling hot; let it stand over night; then extract the 
juice, and to each gallon add three pounds of sugar. 
Put it in a keg and let it remain undisturbed for sev- 
eral weeks ; then rack off and bottle. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 349 

Lemon Sherbet Without Lemons, 

( MRS. AGGIE KENNEY, KY. ) 

Two teaspoonsful of citric acid dissolved in a little 
water, one teaspoonful and a half essence of lemon, 
three coffeecupsful white sugar and one gallon water ; 
when this begins to freeze add the whites of two eggs, 
well -beaten, and then freeze. 



Lemon Ice. 

( MRS. N. W. EDWARDS.) 

To one gallon of water a dozen and a half lemons, 
squeeze out* the juice, and add sugar sufficient to 
make a pleasantly sweet lemonade. Freeze it, and 
when nearly frozen, add the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Stir to mix well, then freeze well. 



Gelatine Jelly. 

Pour one pint cold water over half a box gelatine ; 
let it stand till soft ; add half pint boiling water, one 
pint madeira wine, three-quarters of a pound white 
sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful lemon acid and two 
drops essence lemon. 



Sherbet. 

(MRS. BEN. EDWARDS.) 

Boil in a quart of rich milk the rind of a lemon 
with a pound of loaf sugar ; when cool, put in the 
freezer and half freeze. Have ready the juice of five 



350 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

lemons and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth ; add a little sugar to the lemon juice. Add this 
mixture to the half frozen within the freezer, and let 
it freeze solid. 



Currant Wine. 

(MRS. N. W. BROADWELL .) 

To each gallon of bruised fruit, add one gallon of 
water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain, and 
to each quart of the juice add one and a half or two 
quarts of water and one quart of sugar. Put in jugs 
and tie a thin cloth over the top for a few days, then 
put in the cork loosely till fermentation ceases. It 
can then be poured off and bottled. Cork tightly. 



Frozen Custard* 

( MRS. PERKINS. ) 

Two quarts new milk, four tablespoonsful of corn 
starch and six eggs. Heat the milk to nearly boiling, 
then add starch, which must be dissolved in a ltttle 
milk ; then add the eggs, well-beaten, with eight table- 
spoonsful of powdered sugar; let it boil up once or 
twice. Set the vessel containing this mixture in a 
vessel with boiling water, and let it boil in that. It 
will take a little longer, but will not burn if boiled in 
this way. Let this cool and then freeze. 



ERRATA. 



:>**<< 



Page 9. — Loaf should be soap. 

Page 202— Marble Cake, (Mrs. Ryan's.)— The white part 
should be well-flavored with lemon. The dark part should 
have half a table spoonful, each, ot spices. 

Page 198 — Lady Cake.— Should have one cup sweet milk 
instead of half cup, and one teaspoonful soda instead of half 
teacupful. 

Page 226 — Sponge Cake, (Mrs Ryan.)— Ten ounces flour, 
instead of sixteen. 

Page 239— Imperial Cake, (Mrs. Hodges.)— Should be two 
pounds raisins; one pound of them chopped, the other pound 
whole. 

Page 67 — Mock Venison. — Should be hind-quarter. 

Page 217. — Ginger Cakes. — Teacup, instead of coffee cup. 






INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Advice to Housekeepers ... 7 

To Young Housekeepers 12 

House Furnishing 13 

Advice to Mothers 14 

Modern Cookery and House- . 

hold Management 16 

Four Good Points 19 

Four Important Rules 19 

Remarks 20 

Spoiling 21 

SOUPS. 

Soups 23 

Beef 24 

Mutton 24 

Portable 24 

Mock Turtle 25 

Veal 26 

Giblet 26 

Chicken 26 

Gumbo 27 

Oyster 2S 

Winter 29 

Noodles for Soup 28 

VealBroth.: 29 

FISH. 

Fish 30 

Boiled 30 

Boiled Cod 31 

Baked 31 

Sauce 31 

Cod Cakes 32 

Spiced 32 

Fried 32 

Broiled 88 

Cat 38 



PAGE. 

Fish 

Fried Cod 34 

Boiled 35 

Clam Fritters 37 

Potted Shad 87 

Stewed Halibut 40 

Cod Cakes, (A Yankee Dish) 40 

Fried Perch 41 

Curry 41 

Sauce 42 

Fried Oysters 33 

Stewed Oysters 84 

Scalloped Oyeters 34 

To Make Stewed Oysters Tender. 85 

French Stewed Oysters 86 

A Codfish Relish 41 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish 41 

MARK^-M- 

Beef Steaks 43 

Roasting Pieces 48 

Corned Beef Pieces 44 

A Stuffed Flank 44 

Time for Boiling Meat. 45 

Fresh Killed Meat 45 

Take Care of the Liquor 46 

If the Liquor is too Salt 46 

Boiled Ham 47 

Tongues 47 

Mutton Hams, (for Drying) 48 

For Corned Beef 48 

Sugar Cured Hams 48 

Beef and Mutton 49 

Ribs of Beef 50 

Mutton Chops 50 

Leg of Mutton 50 

Pork Steaks 51 

Spare Ribs 51 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Sausage Meat 51 

Tender-Loin 52 

PigB Feet 52 

Shoulder and Ham 52 

Curing and Smoking Ham 53 

Packing Beef 54 

To Try Out Lard 54 

Mutton 54 

Shoulder 55 

Leg Boiled 55 

Cooking a Loin 56 

The Neck and Breast — 56 

The Haunch 56 

Venison Fashion 56 

Beef a la Mode 57 

Beef Patties 58 

To Hash a Calf s Head 58 

Spoon Meats 59 

Minced Beef. '. 59 

Beef and Mashed Potatoes 60 

Beef's Heart 60 

Beef Collops 61 

Beef a la Mode 61 

Beefsteak Pie 62 

Staffordshire Beefsteak 62 

To Mince Beef 63 

Potted Beef 63 

To Stew a Brisket of Beef 63 

Beef Balls 64 

Beefsteak with Onions 64 

Head Cheese 64 

Roast Pig 65 

Tripe Stewed '. 66 

Lamb to Fry — 66 

Calf's Head Pie 66 

Mock Venison 67 

Mutton Hash 67 

Veal 68 

Fillet , 68 

Loin 68 

Shoulder 68 

Neck 68 

Curried 69 

Patties 70 

Pie 70 

Southern Stewed 70 

Cutlets, (To Stew) 71 

Fricandeau 71 

Sweetbread 72 

Oyster Pie 72 

Loaf. 72 

Pie, 73 

Stuffing 73 

Minced 73 

Patty 74 

Breast 74 

Dressed with White Sauce. . . 74 

Minced 75 



PAGE. 

Sandwiches, (Very Fine) 75 

Fricasseed Chicken 75 

Roast Turkey 75 

Goose 76 

Ducks 76 

Egg Frizzle 77 

Sauce for Roast Beef or Mutton." 77 

Croquettes 77 

An Economical Dish 78 

French Stew 79 

Potatoes Roasted under Meat — 79 

For a French Pot au Feu 79 

Good, Plain Family Irish Stew. . 80 

How to Cut a Chicken to Fry. ... 80 

Rabbits Stewed 81 

Pot Pie 81 

Broiled 82 

Potted 83 

Broiled Quails 82 

Stewed Prairie Chicken 83 

Chicken Fried 84 

Salad 84 

Smothered or Baked. .. 85 

Mayonaise 85 

To Cook|Calf s or Beef's Liver. . . 86 

VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables 87 

To Boil Them 88 

Take Care to Wash.. 88 

To Have Clean 88 

When They Sink.... 88 

To Preserve Color... 89 

Potatoes 89 

Cakes 89 

Boiled 90 

Mashed 90 

Baked 91 

Fried Whole 91 

Escolloped 92 

Saratoga Fried 92 

Fritters 93 

Plain Fried 93 

Snow 94 

Cakes 108 

French Batter for Vegetables 93 

Tomato Omelet 91 

Stew 96 

Pudding 98 

To Broil 99 

To Bake 99 

Squash 94 

Turnips 94 

String Beans 95 

Succotash, or Corn and Beans. . . 95 

Sweetbreads and Cauliflowers ... 96 

To Stew Red Cabbage 97 



INDEX. 



355 



PAGE. 

Egg Plant 109 

Fried 97 

Fricasseed 99 

Green Corn Dumplings 97 

in Winter. 98 

Pudding for Meat... 109 

Beets 99 

Young 103 

Parsnips 100 

Cabbage 100 

Asparagus 100 

Peas 101 

Cold 109 

String Beans 101 

Mushrooms to Preserve 101 

Stewed in Gravy. . 102 

Sweet Potatoes Baked 102 

Roasted 102 

Boiled 108 

Fried 103 

Summer Squash 103 

Greens and Sprouts 104 

Spinage 104 

Slaw 105 

Hot 105 

To Bake Beans 106 

Hominy 106 

Cucumbers 107 

Salsify 107 

Corn .* 106 

on the Cob 107 

Another Way to Cook 107 

Cold 109 

Onions to Boil 108 

Fried 108 

EGGS. 

Omelet with Cheese 110 

Omelet 110 

Eggs Hard Boiled Ill 

Omelet (Very Fine) Ill 

Poached Ill 

Pickled 112 

to Keep 112 

Plain Boiled 112 

a V Ardennaise 113 

snrle Plat 118 

Buttered 118 

Balls 114 

BREADMAKING& YEAST. 

Yeast Hop 115 

Grated Potato 116 

Bottled or Jug 116 

Bottled 117 

Mashed Potato 117 



PAGE 

Yeast, to Make 121 

Milk 121 

Kentucky for Rolls 189 

Kentucky Buttermilk 139 

Sally Lunn lib 

Snails 119 

Biscuit, Soda 119 

Sonne 120 

Butter 122 

Beat 139 

Milk 141 

Beaten 144 

Buns 122 

English 129 

Spanish 132 

Brown Bread 127 

French 127 

Steamed 127 

Boston 128 

Boiled 128 

Brown Bread 141 

Boiled Bread 140 

Brown Bread ... 145 

Cracked W heat for Breakfast 146 

Corn Oysters 135 

Corn Bread 142 

Good 142 

Corn Bread 145 

Cake, Bread 119 

Cream 120 

Common Bread 121 

Rye Drop 124 

Pop Overs 125 

Sour Milk Griddle 125 

Buckwheat 126 

Buckwheat with Sour Milk 126 

Corn Meal 126 

English Tea 128 

Johnny 132 

Light 133 

Little Milk 134 

Rye Drop 137 

Flour Griddle 137 

Graham Flour 140 

Corn Cake 144 

Crackers 144 

Fritters 135 

Spanish 135 

Potato 136 

Potato 138 

"Pecnliars," or Graham Puffs.,.. 122 

Rusk 128 

Rusk 131 

Rolls, Dutch 123 

French Ii9 

Sally Lunn without Yeast 130 

Rice Corn Bread 181 

Tomato Toast 134 



356 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Muffins 125 

Raised 124 

Hominy 133 

Mush 140 

Mush 146 

Rice 147 

Sally Lunn 146 

Waffles 126 

German 124 

Yankee 136 

German 136 

Cheap 142 

Graham Gems 137 

Pancakes, New England 134 

Cream 143 

Quire of Paper 143 

PASTRY. 

Very Rich Crust for Tarts 14S 

Pie Crust 148 

Family 148 

Pie Crust 152 

Puff Paste 149 

French Pastry 149 

Mince Meat 151 

Strawberry Short Cake 153 

Mince Meat 158 

Peach Cobbler 158 

Piecrust Glaze 167 

Strawberries Stewed for Tarts ... 171 

Pie Plant Short Cake 172 

Pies, Apple 149 

Belleflower Apple 150 

French Apple 150 

Pumpkin 150 

Dried Peach 152 

Cranberry 152 

Pie Plant 152 

Cocoanut 153 

Soda Cracker 154 

Cream 154 

Cream 155 

Golden 155 

Cream 156 

Transparent 156 

Delicate 156 

Cracker 157 

Lemon 157 

Cracker Mince 158 

Gooseberry 159 

Lemon 159 

Lemon 160 

Potato 160 

Lemon — 160 

Mush 161 

Silver 161 

Lemon 162 



PAGE. 

Pies, Mince 162 

Cream 162 

Golden 163 

Cream 163 

Egg Mince 163 

Molasses 164 

Mince 164 

Delicate 165 

/ Cream 165 

Lemon 166 

Cornstarch 166 

Transparent 167 

Stewart, (Splendid) 167 

Summer Mince 168 

Mince without Meat 168 

Lemon Mince 169 

Lemon 169 

Lemon 169 

Mince 170 

Apple Custard 170 

Georgetown, Ky 170 

Lemon 171 

Lemon 171 

Cheap Lemon 172 

Cream 173 

CAKES. 

General Directions for Making.. 175 

A Fine Icing for Cake 176 

Cold Icing 178 

Receipt for Icing 179 

Almond Icing for Wedding Cake 193 

Almond Icing 220 

Sugar Ice 220 

Icing for Cake 225 

Orange Pa?te 239 

Cakes, Black 176 

Currant 177 

Custard 177 

White 177 

Cream 178 

Ice Cream 178 

Soft Ginger 179 

Doughnuts 179 

Citron 180 

Cottage 180 

Delicious 181 

Tipsy 181 

Silver 182 

Ginger Snaps 182 

Drop 182 

Fruit 183 

Spice 183 

Ginger Snaps 185 

Rolled Jelly 185 

Macaroons 185 

Tea 185 



INDEX. 



357 



PAGE. 

Cakes, Black 186 

Doughnuts 187 

Silver 187 

Cream Tea 187 

Fruit 188 

Cocoanut 188 

Coffee 1S9 

Delicate 1S9 

Railroad 189 

Sponge 190 

Cocoanut Pound 190 

Sponge 190 

Chocolate Puffs 190 

Cocoanut 191 

Ginger Snaps 191 

Jumbles 191 

Fruit 192 

White Sponge 192 

White 192 

White Mountain 192 

Pork 193 

Fruit 194 

Almond Macaroons 194 

Feather 195 

cup . 195 

White Cake 195 

Sponge 196 

Jumbles 1„% 

Rose 196 

Cocoanut Jumbles 197 

Mountain 197 

Lady 198 

Fruit 198 

Almond 199 

Pound.. 199 

White 199 

Cup 200 

Sponge 200 

Fruit 200 

Cream Sponge 201 

Union 201 

Harrison 201 

Delicate 202 

Marble 202 

Fancy 203 

Aunty's 203 

Cocoanut 204 

Sponge 204 

Snow 204 

White 205 

Ambrosial 205 

Sponge 205 

Silver 206 

Gold 206 

Starch 206 

Corn Starch, (No. 2).... 207 

Milwaukee 207 

Tipsy, (Sponge) 207 



PAGE. 

Cakes, Chocolate Macaroons . . . 208 

Chocolate 208 

Lemon 209 

Filling for 209 

Golden 209 

Jane's Cream 210 

Cocoanut 210 

Cookies 211 

Cookies 211 

Plum 211 

Excellent Cookies 212 

Jumbles 212 

Coffee 212 

Sponge 213 

Marble 213 

Molasses Cup 214 

Water Cookies 214 

Soft Ginger 215 

Soft Ginger 215 

Ginger Snaps 216 

Ginger 217 

Jumbles 217 

Raised without Eggs 218 

Ginger Snaps 218 

Lou's Ginger Snaps 218 

Almond 219 

Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 1. 219 
Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 2. 220 

Tea or Coffee 221 

Pork, without Butter, 

Eggs or Milk 221 

Cider 222 

Roll Jelly 223 

Dried Apple 223 

White Fruit 224 

Ginger Pound 225 

Crullers 225 

Cookies . 226 

Pork 226 

Sponge 226 

Crullers 227 

Doughnuts 227 

Snow, (Very Fine) 227 

Cream Jelly 228 

Whiti Sponge 228 

Newport 229 

Crullers.... 229 

Ammonia 230 

White 230 

Ginger 230 

Ginger Snaps 231 

Snow 231 

Cocoanut Macaroons 232 

Orange 232 

Ice Cream 232 

Sponge 233 

Sponge 233 

Cream 233 



358 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Cakes, Railroad 234 

Common Crullers 234 

Soft Crullers. 234 

Rice 236 

Corn Starch 236 

Tea 236 

White 237 

Almond Pound 237 

Cookies 238 

Doughnuts 238 

Crullers 238 

Citron Marble 239 

Imperial 239 

Irish 240 

Jumbles 240 

Doughnuts 241 

Splendid Cookies 241 

Swiss Cream 237 

Cocoanut Jumbles 235 

Cocoanut Cookies., 229 

Cocoanut Jumbles, 197 

Gingerbread, Sponge 184 

Soft 215 

Sponge 216 

Soft .' 217 

Soft 218 

Soft 231 

PUDDINGS. 

Directions 243 

Sauce, Brandy or Wine 245 

Lemon 245 

Pudding 246, 247, 265 

Cold... 246 

Boiled Rice 246 

Liquid . . . . , 247 

Butter and Sugar 247 

Brandy 248 

Wine 248 

Mrs. R.'s Pudding 248 

Sweet 249 

Rich Lemon 249 

Puddings, Chinese Fun 249 

Potato. 250, 265, 279, 2S7 

Potato 290 

Brown 250 

Baked Indian 251 

Steam 251, 275, 276 

Florentine 252 

German 252 

Batter 253, 256, 279 

Pound, (Steamboat). 253 

Tapioca 255, 256 

Rice 255,258 

Plum 255, 268 

Sago 257, 276 

Blanc Mange <fc Fruit. 257 
Sponge., 257 



PAGE. 

Puddings, Snow (Splendid) ... 258 

Lemon 259 

Eve's 259 

Farina 259 

Rice and Apple 260 

Cream 260., 282 

An Excellent 260 

Plain Boiled 261 

Orange 261, 283 

Bread 262, 269 

Apple and Paste 262 

Meringue Rice 263 

Transparent 266, 290 

Apple Roll, or Apple. 266 

Soda 266 

Soufflee 267, 292 

Orange Marmalade.. 267 

Nursery 267 

Bread and Butter 268 

Brown Charlotte 268 

Plum, (Plain) 268 

Molasses 269 

Cracker Fruit 269 

Suet 270, 271, 276 277 

Suet 287 

Boiled English Plum 271 

English Plum 272 

The Queen 273 

Sallie s Meringue — 273 

Apple Potato 274 

A Welsh 274 

Baked Fruit 274 

Christmas Plum 275 

Jersey 275 

Kentucky 278 

Nameless 278 

Boiled 279 

Meringue Rice 279 

PumDkin 280 

Fig ." 280 

Jelly 281 

Canary 281 

Macaroni 281 

Corn Meal 282 

Cottage 282, 292 

Raisin 283 

Frozen Almond 284 

Almond...- 284 

Citron 285 

Poor Man's 287 

French 288 

Cocoanut 2S9, 293 

Marlborough 289 

Boiled Loaf 291 

Sutherland 292 

RodGrod 293 

To Make Hen's Nest 294 

ATrifle 294 

Gooseberry Cream 294 



INDEX. 



359 



PAGE. 

Cheap Dessert 250 

German Puffs 251 

Lemon Drops 256 

Custard 254, 25S, 259 

Cranberry Roll 262 

Cream 262, 263 264, 265 

Charlotte Russe 264, 270 

Dumplings. Light Dough 264 

Lemon Apple 272 

Dried Peach 286 

Dried Apple 286 

Green Apple 286 

Tapioca for Puddings 291 

RolyPoly 270 



PICKLES. 



General 
Pickles, 



Directions 

Cauliflower 

Martinoes 

Cabbage 298,302, 

Grape 

Peach Mangoes 

Peaches... 299, 300,308, 

Nasturtiums 

Sweet Cherry.' 

Watermelon Rind 

Tomato 301, 305, 

Sweet Tomato 

Chopped Mixed 

Cucumber 302, 317 

Oysters — , 

Butternuts 

Mangoes 

Chow-Chow .... 304, 312, 

Onions 304, 308, 

Plums 304, 

Cucumbers and Onions 

Eggs 

East India 

Buck and Breck 

Chopped 

Sweet 

Gherkins 

Mushrooms 

Yellow 

Virginia Damson 

Damson Sweet 

Melon Sweet 

Yellow Cabbage 

Cabbage Salad 

Peach Pickles 

Pepper Mangoes 

Catsup, Tomato . . . .310, 311, 314, 

Pepper 

Chopped 

Walnut 

Plum : 

Universal Sauce 



297 
298 
298 
318 
299 
299 
311 
300 
300 
301 
306 
314 
301 
320 
302 
302 
303 
820 
816 
313 
305 
305 
306 
807 
308 
809 
309 
309 
312 
313 
319 
319 
320 
316 
317 
317 
316 
310 
311 
313 
318 
314 



PRESERVES. 

PAGE. 

General Directions 121 

Canning Fruits 323, 324 

Corn 388 

Preserves, Plums 334 

Plums without Skins 325 

Pears 326, 334 

Cantelope Rind 335 

Strawberries 327 

Quinces Whole 332 

Citron » 336 

Cherry 337 

Tomato 327 

Pears for the Table 327, 334 

Currants for Tarts 826 

Jelly, Apple or Quince 327 

Cranberry 328 

Currant 329, 330, .335 

Apple 329 

Crab Apple 331 

Quince 332 

Raspberry 335 

Damson Sauce 338 

Jam, Currant 329 

Marmalade, Crabb Apple 330 

Apple 330, 331 

Quince 322 

Tomato... 387 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 339 

Italian Snow 339 

Itallienne Ice 340 

Strawberry Water Ice 340 

Lemon Ice 340 

Pineapples 341 

Peaches 341 

Ice Cream 341 

Lemon Syrup, (To Save Lemon). 341 
Cream Soda, (This is Splendid.). 342 

Cheap Ice Cream 342 

Wine Jelly 343 

Splendid Ginger Pop 343 

Elderberry Wine 343 

Blackberry Cordial 344 

Acid Royal 845 

Egg Nog, the Best Ever Made.. 345 

Cocoanut Candy 345 

Sugar Candy 345 

Butter Scotch 346 

Cream Candy 345 

Cocoa Candy 346 

To Keep Silver Always Bright. . . 846 
To Destroy Worms in Garden 

Walks 847 

To Clean Brass 347 

A Strong Paste for Paper 347 

Preserving Eggs for Winter 34T 



360 



INDEX. 



PAGE. ! PAGE. 

To Tell Good Eggs 348 Lemon Ice 349 

Currant Wine 348 ; Sherbet 349 

Blackberry and Currant Wine . . . 348 j Currant Wine 350 

Lemon Sherbet without Lemons . 349 < Frozen Custard 360 




ID. WIOKERSHAM, 



DEALER IN 



PROVISIONS! 

Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

MONROE STREET, 
Opp. the Post office, SB RING FIELD, ILL. 



A. S. EDWARDS. J. P. BAKER. CHAS. EDWARDS. 

EDWARDS, BAKER & CO., 

GROCERS. 

WI1TE5, LIQOE.S A CIGARS, 

Monroe St., bet. 5th and 6th Sts., 

Branch Store West Side of 5th, third door South of Jefferson Street, 
SPBIlfGFILLn, ILLINOIS. 



JOHN T. STUART, Jr., 

East Side Square, - - SPRINGFIELD. 



3^C 




ill GOOD 



MILLIHERY, SMALL WARES, Etc. 

The Cheapest Line of Domestic Goods in the City. 
Butteriek'§ Patterns, in Every Size and Style. 

AGENTS FOR THE SALE OP THE CELEBRATED 

Eug. Montalent Paris Seamless Kid Glove. 

Price, $l.SO. 
W. R. BRASFIELD. R. C. STEELE. 

BEASPIELD & STEELE, 

WHOLESALE AND KETAIL DEALERS IN 

F^MIE YffBOCBBIBS* 



Provisions, Salt, Wooden and Willow Ware. 



^x>X«< 



All Kinds of Country Produce Wanted. 



HW^OO" 



Monroe House, cor. Monroe and Fifth Sts., 
Spring-field^ 111. 



OWEN'S 

COMPOUND CONCENTRATED FLUID EXTRACT OP 

Sarsa par ilia 

— AND — 

Stillingia, with Iodide of Potash. 



For Purifying the Blood and Kenovating the System. 

Performing' a radical cure of the following diseases, all of which arise from 
a foul condition of the blood : 

King's Evil or Scrofula, Glandular Swellings Ul- 
cers of Every Kind, Old Sores, All Skin Dis- 
eases, Such as Tetter, Ringworm, Pimples, 
Eruptions, Boils, Scaldheari, Fever Sores, 
Weeping Sore L.eg ; Every Variety Ven- 
ereal or Syphilitic Diseases, Neu- 
ralgia, Mercurial Rheumatism, 
White Swelling, Hip Joint 
Diseases, Chronic Erysipe- 
las, etc., etc., etc. 

COMPOSED OF VEGETABLE PRODUCTS ONLY ! ! 

Tt is harmless as well ae effectual. Most alteratives now in market contain 
mercury or arsenic. We will give any chemist in America $1,000 who will 
detect one grain of metalic medicine in our preparation of Sarsaparilla and 
Stillingia. OWEN"S SARSAPARILLA has been made and sold in Springfield 
for 25 years, and we have yet to hear of the first case where it has failed to 
perform all we claim for it. Althontrh our preparation is put up in smaller 
bottles than some other similar preparations in market, it is cheapest — being 
highly concentrated and the dose smaller in proportion. 

Prepared Only by T. J. V. OWEN, Pharmacist. 

Owen Buchu Manufacturing Co,, Sole Prop's, 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
m~ SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. .J01 

Our Sarsaparilla and Potash is concentrated so as to be fou r 
times the strength of all other one dollar Sarsaparillas. 



Compound Fluid 



pWip]B ( ^ 



H 






9 



Is a Reliable Preparation for the Permanent Cure of 

KIDNEY DISEASES, 

And those Rheumatic and Dropsical Difficulties so often arising 
from disturbances ot the functions of the Kidneys. Thous- 
ands suffer from Rheumatism, who direct their 
attention to that disease only, when 
the Kidneys are really the seat 
of the disorder and a 

FEW BOTTLES OP 

Owen's Extract Of Buchu 



Would remove tie trouble and effect 

Gravel, 

Brick Dust Deposits, 
Early Indiscretion, 
Loss of Memory, 
Trembling, 
Wakefulness 
Dryness of the Skin, 
Eruptions on the Face, 
Confused Mind, 



a permanent Cure. Tne same is true of 

Irritation of the Bladder 

Milky Discharges, 

Loss of Power, 

Weak Nerves w 

Dimness of Vision, 

Hot Hands, 

Pain in the Back, 

Horrors, 

Private Diseases, &c, Arc 



OWEN'S EXTRACT OF BUCHU, 

Has proved itself to be the most reliable and efficient remedy, for 

Female Weakness, Debility, Flour Albus or Whites, etc. 

IT IS THE BEST SPECIFIC KNOWN. 

For Sale lyy All Druggists. 



Prepared by T. J. F. O WEJST, Pliarmaeist, 

OWEN BUCHU MANUFACTURING CO., Proprietors, 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 



JOHN H. JOHNSON, 





BOOKBINDER 



BOOK & JOB PRINTER, 



— AND 



BLANK BOOK MANDFACTURER : 

West Side Square, 



Has always on hand a fine assortment of 

SCHOOL. BOOKS AND SCHOOL. APPARATUS, 
SLATES, INSTANDS, Etc., 

Gold Pens, Penholders, Pencils and Pencilcases, 

Law, Medical and Micellaneous Books, Letter and 

Note Paper and Envelopes of every description, 

Yisting Cards, Pocket Books, Portfolios, 

Drawing Materials, Stereoscopes and 

Views, Writing Desks, Ladies' 

Work Boxes, Pocket Knives, 

And every article pertaining to a First Class BOOK AND 
STATIONERY ESTABLISMENT. 

PRINTING AND ioOKBINDING 

Of every kind done on the shortest notice, and in the very best 

Style, AT REASONABLE RATES. 

OLD BOOKS REBOUND. 



I 




LIBRARY OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 



641 o 5 

Ow2m 



I.H.S. 




If* 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The undersigned having examined the manuscript copy of Mrs. 
T. J. V. OWEN'S " ILLINOIS COOK BOOK," heartily recommend it 
to the patronage of all housekeepers. The original and selected 
receipts are the choicest we have ever seen, and the materials 
called for are within the reach of all, and can be had, as a general 
thing, in any of our western towns. The greatest objection to the 
cook books now published is that the receipts call for material 
rarely to be obtained outside of the larger cities. 

Mrs. B. S. EDWARDS, 'Springfield, Illinois. 

" JACOB BUNN, " 

" CHARLES RYAN, " 

" J.- C. ROBINSON, 

" VIRGIL HICKOX, " 

" N. M. BROADWELL, " 

" JOHN S. BRADFORD, " 

" J. A. McCLERNAND, " " 

" WM. A. TURNEY, " " 

" W. F. KlMBER, " " 

" J. A. CHESNUT, " 

" CHAS. D. HODGES, Carrollton, " 

" Dr. WHITE, Bloomington, 

" ALEX. MOREAN, Brooklyn, New York. 

Miss CARRIE HURST, Jacksonville, Illinois. 

Mrs. P. B. PRICE, 
" JACK WRIGHT, Petersburg, " 



orders addressed to Mrs. T. J. V. OWEN, Springfield, 
Illinois, will receive prompt attention. PRICE, $2if$per copy. 



MRS. OWEN'S 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK, 



BY MRS. T. J. V. OWEN, 



A PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFE. 



"Whatever is worth doing is worth doing well." 



SPRINGFIELD, ILL.: 

JOHN H. JOHNSON, PRINTER 
1871 



PREFACE. 



IN coming before the public with the " ILLINOIS 
COOK BOOK" I do so because years ago I felt the 
necessity of a book of this kind; one that would be a 
guide to young housekeepers, as well as a great con- 
venience to older ones. There are a great many 
receipts published from time to time, that in all proba- 
bility are very good; but we are often loth to try any- 
thing entirely new, through fear, not only of the 
disappointment, if it should not prove good, but the 
waste of material, which by a careful housekeeper 
should be a first consideration. Taking this into 
consideration, I have been careful of preserving all 
well-tried receipts, and in collecting such as, in my 
\ own judgment and the judgment and experience of my 
friends, would reach the necessities of all who may 
desire a good practical receipt book. In all general 
directions I have tried to be explicit, making them so 
plain that the most inexperienced can understand. 
Let all remember that care must be taken in order to 
produce nice dishes; so that with care and a liberal 
amount of good material we may all live well at least. 



VI PREFACE. 



To the ladies of Springfield I owe much for their 
extreme kindness in supplying me with receipts from 
time to time, and for their voluntary recommendation 
of the book to the public. Allow me here to express 
my heartfelt thanks to all those who have shown me 
this kindness, and let me here say that I have KNOWN 
the truth of the adage that "a friend in NEED is a 
friend INDEED. 

MRS. T. J. Y. OWEK 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL., 1871. 



ADVICE TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 



To young beginners in housekeeping the following 
brief HINTS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY in the management 
of a moderate income may perhaps prove acceptable. 

"Whenever anything is bought, a bill of the goods 
and a receipt should be required, even if the money be 
paid at the time of purchase ; and to avoid mistakes 
the goods should be compared with these when brought 
home ; if the money is to be paid at a future period, a 
bill should be sent- with the articles and regularly tiled. 

An inventory of furniture, linen and china, should 
be kept, and the things examined frequently, especially 
if there be a change of servants often; the articles 
used by servants should be entrusted to their care with 
a list, as many persons do with silver. 

In the purchase of glass and crockeryware, either 
the most customary patterns should be chosen, in order 
to secure their being easily matched, or, if a scarce 
design be adopted, an extra quantity should be bought 
to guard against the annoyance of the set being spoiled 
by breakage, which, in the course of time must be 
expected to happen. There should also be plenty of 
common dishes, that the table set may not be used for 
putting away cold meats, etc. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



The cook should be instructed to be careful of coals 
and cinders. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire 
for the back of the grate, but must remain untouched 
until it cakes. Cinders lightly wetted gives a great 
degree of heat, and are better for furnaces, ironing 
stoves and ovens. 

The most durable linens for sheeting are the Eussia, 
German or Irish fabrics; a good stock of which, as 
well as of table linen, should be laid in to avoid the 
necessity of frequent or irregular washing. When 
linen cannot be afforded, always buy the best muslin 
sheeting. Sheets that have a seam in the middle wear 
the best, as the seam strengthens that part ; and as the 
sheets begin to wear, sew the two outside seams and 
open the middle seam, and they will wear twice as 
long. 

A STOKE ROOM is essential for the custody of articles 
in constant use, as well as for others which are only 
occasionally called for. These should be at hand when 
wanted, each in separate drawers, or on shelves and 
pegs, all under the lock and key of the mistress, and 
never given out to the servants but under her inspec- 
tion. It is altogether a mistaken idea of letting serv- 
ants have full sway over what is provided for the 
household ; however honest they may be, their want of 
judgment often proves destructive ; and every woman 
who considers her own and her husband's interest, will 
see that care is taken of what he works hard to pro- 
vide. Pickles and preserves, prepared and purchased 
sauces, and all sorts of groceries, should be placed in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 9 

the store room ; spices pounded, bottled and corked 
tight; sugar in readiness for use; lemon and orange 
peel put in bags and stored away; thyme, parsley and 
all sorts of sweet herbs should be dried, rubbed throwgh 
a sieve and bottled tight; the small bits of tongues 
saved and dried for grating into omelets; and care 
should be taken that nothing be wasted that ca^ be 
turned to good account. 

BKEAD is so heavy an article of expense that all 
waste should be guarded against. Be careful to cut 
no more than will be wanted at a time ; it is better to 
replenish the plate than to have a box full of dry 
bread going to waste; bread keeps better in earthen 
than in wooden ware. Make dry or dip toast of the 
dry bread, or use the receipt in this book for frying 
bread, which is delightful. 

SUGAR being an article of considerable expense in 
all families, the purchase demands particular attention. 
The cheap sugar does not go so far as that more 
refined, and there is a difference even in the degree of 
sweetness. The close heavy, shining white sugar 
should be chosen. The best sort of brown has a bright 
crystalline appearance, as if mixed with salt; and, if 
feeling coarse when rubbed between the fingers, is 
better than when more powdery. Loaf should be cut 
in pieces when first purchased, and kept out of the air 
two or three weeks ; for if it dries quickly it will crack, 
and when wet will break. Put it on a shelf with a 
space between each piece, and let it gradually dry, and 
it will save a full third in the consumption. 
2 



10 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of 
soap. It should be melted and put in a large jug and 
corked tight for use. If you soak your clothes over 
night use a little, and also in boiling. 

The best starch will keep good in a dry place for 
years. Everything should be kept in the place best 
suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided. 

Grreat care should be taken of jelly bags, which, if 
not properly washed and scalded, will give an unpleas- 
ant flavor when next used. 

There are comparatively few among the middle 
classes of society who can afford to keep professional 
cooks, their wages being too high, and their methods 
too extravagant. In such cases a plain cook is alone 
attainable, who knows little beyond the commonest 
operations of the kitchen.. The mistress, therefore, 
ought to make herself so far acquainted with cookery 
as to be competent to give proper directions for pre- 
paring a meal and having it properly served up. 

Perhaps there are few points on which the responsi- 
bility of a man is more immediately felt than the style 
of dinner to which he may accidentally bring home a 
visitor. If the dishes are well served, with the proper 
accompaniments, the table linen clean, and all that is 
necessary be at hand, the comfort of both husband 
and friend will be greatly increased by the usual 
domestic arrangements not having been interfered 
with. 

Hence, the DIRECTION OF A TABLE is no inconsider- 
able branch of a lady's duty, as it involves judgment 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 11 

in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the 
comfort of her husband as well as of those who partake 
of their hospitality. Inattention to it is always inex- 
cusable, and should be avoided for the lady's own sake, 
as it occasions a disagreeable degree of bustle, and 
evident annoyance to herself, which is never observable 
in a well regulated establishment. 

The mode of setting out a table differs according to 
taste. It is not the multiplicity of dishes, but the 
choice, the dressing, and the neat looks of the whole, 
which gives an air of refinement to a table. There 
should always be more than the necessary quantity of 
plate or plated ware and glass, to afford a certain 
appearance of elegance; and these, with a clean cloth 
and neatly dressed attendants, will show that the 
habits of the family are those of gentility. Castors 
should be looked to and carefully wiped; cruets filled 
always before dinner time; and much trouble and 
irregularity are saved, when there is company, if 
servants are TRAINED to prepare the table and side- 
board in a similar manner every day. Too many or 
too few dishes are extremes not uncommon: the former 
encumbering the dinner with a superfluity which par- 
takes of vulgarity, whilst the latter has the appearance 
of poverty or penuriousness. 

The mistress of a family should never forget that 
the welfare and good management of the house depends 
on the eye of the superior; and consequently that 
nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste 
may be avoided, or order maintained. If she has 



12 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

never been accustomed, while single, to think of family 
management, let her not upon that account fear that 
she cannot attain it; she may consult others who are 
more experienced, and acquaint herself with the neces- 
sary quantities, qualities, and prices of the several 
articles of expenditure in a family in proportion to the 
number it consists of. The chief duties of life are 
within the reach of humble abilities, and she whose 
aim is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit her- 
self well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the 
virtues of the female character is that well-directed 
ductility of mind which occasionally bends its atten- 
tion to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be 
often scarcely less essential than the greater. 



TO YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Be satisfied to commence on a small scale. It is 
too common for young housekeepers to want to begin 
where their mothers ended. Buy all that is necessary 
to work skillfully with; adorn your home with all that 
will render it comfortable. Do not look at richer homes 
and covet their costly furniture. If secret dissatisfac- 
tion is ready to spring up, go a step farther and visit 
the homes of the suffering poor; behold dark cheerless 
apartments, insufficient clothing, and absence of all the 
comforts and refinements of social life, and then return 
to your own with a joyful spirit. You will then be 
prepared to meet your husband with a grateful heart, 
and be ready to appreciate the toil and self-denial which 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 13 

he has endured in the business world, to surround you 
with the delights of home, and you will co-operate 
cheerfully with him in so arranging your expenses 
that his mind will not be constantly harrassed lest his 
family expenditures may encroach upon public pay- 
ment. 

Be independent ; a young housekeeper never needed 
greater moral courage than she does now, to resist the 
arrogance of fashion. Do not let the A's and B's 
decide what you shall have ; neither let them hold the 
strings of your purse. You know best what you can 
and ought to afford. It matters but little what people 
think, provided you are true to yourself, to right and 
duty, and keep your expenses within your means. 



HOUSE FURNISHING. 

If you are about to furnish a house do not spend all 
your money, be it much or little. Do not let the 
beauty of this thing, and the cheapness of that, tempt 
you to buy unnecessary articles. Dr. Franklin's 
maxim was a wise one " Nothing is cheap that we do 
not want." Buy what you can get along comfortably 
with at first. It is only by experience that you can 
tell what will be the wants of your family. If you 
spend all your money, you will iind that you have 
purchased many things that you do not want, and have 
no means left to get the articles you really need. If 
you have enough, and more than enough, to get every- 
thing suitable to your situation, do not think you must 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



spend it all, merely because you happen to have it. 
Begin plainly and humbly. As riches and prosperity 
increase it is easy and pleasant to increase in comforts ; 
but it is always painful and inconvenient to decrease. 
After all, these things are viewed in their proper light 
by the truly judicious and respectable. Neatness, 
tastefulness and good sense may be shown in the 
management of a small household, and the arrange- 
ment of a little furniture, as well as upon a larger 
scale; and these qualities are always commendable. 
The consideration which many purchase, by living 
beyond their income, and of course, living upon others, 
is not worth the trouble it costs. The glare there is 
about this false parade is deceptive ; it does not procure 
to any one valuable friends or extensive influence. 
The friends who flock around us in our prosperity, are 
generally the farthest from us when the clouds of 
adversity gather around us. 



ADVICE TO MOTHERS. 

I would here give a few words of advice to mothers, 
those who are training up families of daughters, and 
w r ho wish not only to discharge well their own duties 
in the domestic circle, but to train up their daughters 
to make at a later day happy and comfortable firesides 
for their families; that they should watch well, and 
guard well, the notions which they imbibe and with 
which they grow up. There will be so many persons 
ready to nil their young heads with false notions and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 15 

vain fancies; and there is so much afloat in society 
opposed to duty and common sense, that if mothers do 
not watch them well, they may contract ideas fatal to 
their future happiness and usefulness, and hold them 
till they grow into habits of thought or feeling. A 
wise mother will have her eyes open, and be ready for 
every case. A few words of common, downright, 
respectable, practicable sense, timely uttered by her, 
may be enough to counteract an erroneous idea, whilst 
if it be left unchecked, it may take such possession of 
the mind that it cannot later be corrected. One main 
falsity abroad in this age is the notion that women, 
unless compelled to it by absolute poverty, are out of 
place when engaged in domestic affairs. Now, mothers 
should have a care lest their daughters get hold of this 
conviction as regards themselves. There is danger of 
it; the fashion of the day endangers it, and the care 
that an affectionate family take to keep a girl, during 
the time of her education, free from other occupations 
than those of her tasks or her recreations, also endan- 
gers it. It is possible that affection may err in pushing 
this care too far; for as education means a fitting for 
life, and as a woman's life is much connected with 
domestic and family affairs, or ought to be so, if the 
indulgent consideration of parents abstains from all 
demands upon the young pupil of the school not con- 
nected with her books or her play, will she not naturally 
infer that the matters with which she is never asked 
to concern herself, are, in fact, no concern to her, and 
that any attention she may ever bestow on them is not 



16 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

a matter of simple duty, but of grace, or concession, 
on her part? Let mothers avoid such danger. If they 
would do so, they must bring up their daughters from 
the FIRST with the idea that in this world it is required 
to give as well as to receive, to minister as well as to 
enjoy; that every person is bound to be useful, practi- 
cally, literally useful in their own sphere ; and that a 
woman's first sphere is the house, and its concerns and 
demands. Once really imbued with this belief, and 
taught to see how much the happiness of woman her- 
self, as well as her family, depends on this part of her 
discharge of duty, and a young girl will usually be 
anxious to learn all that her mother will teach her, and 
will be proud and happy to aid in any domestic occu- 
pations assigned to her, which need never be made so 
heavy as to interfere with the peculiar duties of her 
age, or its peculiar delights. If a mother wishes to 
see her daughter become a good, happy and rational 
woman, never let her admit of contempt for domestic 
occupations, or even suffer them to be deemed second- 
ary. They may be raised in character by station, but 
they can never be secondary to a woman. 



MODERN COOKERY AND HOUSEHOLD 
MANAGEMENT. 

THE average of human felicity may not be much 
higher now than it has been; the world will most 
likely deserve its title of a " vale of tears " to the end 
of time ; but one consolation, and that by no means a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 17 

small one, has become stronger and of more general 
circulation in the present day there is the possibility 
of getting good dinners OFTENER. Good dinners! 
excellent dinners ! super-excellent dinners ! have been 
cooked in all ages. Thanksgiving day, Christmas and 
New Years have secured good cheer for Christendom. 
Sunday dinners retain a comfortable superiority over 
the rest of their brethren ; but their very association 
with plenty of good things suggests the "spare fast" 
of intermediate seasons, when a household was on 
salted meat for months ; the frugal housewife being 
careful to use first the portions which were a "little 
touched " and going on with the remainder, as it stood 
in the most urgent need of being cooked. Certainly 
all that has been changed for the better. Set dinner 
parties are less thought of than the comfort of the 
family. The idea has been set forth and cherished 
that the HUSBAND and CHILDREN are entitled to as much 
consideration as occasional guests ; and that the table 
ought to be set out as carefully and neatly every day 
as on special occasions. There is a self-respect in such 
a fact that goes deeper than the clean table-cloths and 
dinner napkins. One of the latest attainments of 
civilization is COMFORT. People are beginning to make 
themselves comfortable with such things as they have. 
The one point insisted upon in all works on household 
management ought not to be a love of show or extrav- 
agant expenditure; but the necessity of having every- 
thing that depends on personal thought or care done 
as well as possible. 

3 



18 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

The table linen must not of necessity be fine, but to 
be clean and well spread is indispenssble. The dinner 
may be of scraps, but those scraps may be made 
savory; and certainly the receipts and directions for 
turning stale crusts into delicate puddings, morsels of 
cold, dry meat into delicious ENTREES, leave cooks and 
wives without excuse for "banyan days" or hungry 
dinners. Cookery is the art of turning every morsel 
to the best use; it is the exercise of skill, thought, 
ingenuity, to make every morsel of food yield the 
utmost nourishment and pleasure of which it is capa- 
ble. A woman who is not essentially kind-hearted 
cannot be a comfortable housekeeper. A woman who 
has not judgment, firmness, forethought, and general 
good sense, cannot manage her house prudently or 
comfortably, no matter what amount of money she 
may have at her command. A woman who has not 
an eye for detecting and remedying disorder and 
carelessness, cannot keep her house fresh and pleasant, 
no matter how much money she may spend on furni- 
ture and upholstelry. It is not money but management 
that is the great requisite in procuring comfort in 
household arrangements. But the woman with limited 
means may make her things as perfect after their kind 
as the woman with ample means, only she will be 
obliged to put more of HEKSELF into the management ; 
and that element of personality has a charm which no 
appointments made through the best staff of servants 
can possess. The luxury of completeness must always 
depend on the individual care and skill of the mistress. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 19 

That a thing should be perfect after its kind is all that 
can be required. We are all so much creatures of 
imagination, that we think more of the signified than 
of the actual fact. When a man sees his table nicely 
set out, he believes in the goodness of his dinner in a 
way that it would be impossible with the self-same 
dinner on a soiled table cloth. 



FOUR GOOD POINTS 

Essentially necessary for the management of house- 
hold concerns. These are 

1st. Punctuality. 

2d. Accuracy. 

3d. Steadiness. 
* 4th. Dispatch. 

Without the first, time is wasted. Without the second, 
mistakes, fatal to our own interest and that of others, 
may be committed. Without the third, nothing can 
be well done. Without the fourth, opportunities of 
good are lost which it is impossible to recall. 



FOUR IMPORTANT RULES. 

1st. A suitable place for everything, and everything 
in its place. 

2d. A proper time for everything, and everything 
done in its time. 

3d. A distinct name for everything, and everything 
called by its name. 

4th. A certain use for everything, and everything 
put to its use. 



20 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

REMARKS. 

It may not be considered out of place to make a few 
remarks on the art of, as also on the principles of 
cookery. For nearly all will acknowledge cooking not 
only to be an art, but a science as well. To know how 
to cook economically is an art. Money making is an 
art. Now is there not more money made and lost in 
the kitchen than any where else? Does not many a 
hard-working man have his substance wasted in the 
kitchen? Does not many a shiftless man have his 
substance saved in the kitchen? A careless cook can 
waste as much as a man can earn, which might as 
well be saved. It is not what we earn, as much as 
what we save, that makes us well off. A long and 
happy life is the reward of obedience to natural laws ; 
and to be independent of want,* is not to want what 
we do not need. Prodigality and idleness constitute a 
crime against humanity. But frugality and industry 
combined with moral virtue and intelligence, will 
insure individual happiness and national prosperity. 
Economy is an instinct of nature, and enforced by- 
Bible precept : " Gather up the fragments that nothing 
may be lost." Saving is a more difficult art than 
earning. Some put dimes into pies and puddings, 
where others only put in cents; the cent dishes are 
generally the most healthy. Almost any woman can 
cook well, if she have plenty with which to do it; but 
the real science of cooking is to be able to cook a good 
meal or dish with but little out of which to make it. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 21 

This is what the few receipts I have given will assist 
you in doing. 

As to the principles of cooking, remember that 
water cannot be made more than boiling hot no 
matter how much you hasten the fire, you cannot 
hasten the cooking of meat, potatoes, &c., one moment. 
When meat is to be boiled for eating, put it into boiling 
water at the beginning, by which its juices are pre- 
served. But if you wish to extract these juices for 
soup or broth, put the meat into cold water, and let it 
simmer slowly. The same principle holds good in 
baking also. Make the oven the right heat and give 
it time to bake through, is the true plan; if you 
attempt to hurry it, you only burn instead of cooking 
it done. 

There is one other process to which I must yet 
allude the process of 

SPOILING. 

Many cooks know how to produce a good dish, but 
too many of them know how to spoil. They leave fifty 
things to be done just at the critical moment, when the 
chief dish should be watched with an eye of keenness, 
and attended by a hand thoroughly expert. Therefore 
too much care cannot be given to any dish we may 
prepare, remembering that it is but half done until it 
is taken from the stove or oven well cooked. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 

Fresh meat of any kind is better for soups, for the 
reason that meats or fowls that have once been cooked 
have lost much of their sweetness. 

Soups should never be allowed to boil too hard, as 
it has a great tendency to make the meat very tough. 
Many persons hold to the opinion that meat should 
always be boiled the day before it is wanted, so that 
the liquor may be set aside to cool, and let the grease 
rise to tiie top and be skimmed off. But very tine 
soup can be made the day it is to be used. A beef 
shank, or a knuckle of veal either, make splendid soup. 
Proper care should always be taken to have your soups 
well seasoned and flavored, as all depends upon this. 
One receipt for seasoning and flavoring soups will not 
suit for all, as there is such a diversity of tastes ; but 
for those who like herbs, it is well to get such as they 
like; for instance, thyme, summer savory, sweet mar- 
jorem, sweet basil, sage, or such as suit their tastes; 
(they can be bought in ten cent packages at any drug 
store;) rub them well together, and then rub them 
through a sieve, and bottle them ready for use at any 



24 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



time. I have found this a very good plan. You can 
keep yourself supplied at a trifling cost, and always 
be ready to make a palatable soup. 

Beef Soup. 

Take the shin bone of the beef, wash it, and put it 
in a pot of cold water; put very little salt in, and let 
it boil; skim well. Have ready such vegetables as 
will suit the taste, such as carrots, onions, turnips, 
cabbage, potatoes, a little celery root; of course it 
takes but little of each. If the vegetables are not 
intended to be left in the soup, the meat should be 
taken out and the soup strained. If dumplings are 
liked, a little milk and flour, well beaten up, and a 
spoonful of butter, made stiifer than for batter-cakes. 
Drop these dumplings in the boiling soup, let them boil 
from five to ten minutes ; flavor to suit the taste. 



Mutton Soup. f1 *- 

A piece of forequarter of mutton is the best for a 
soup piece; throw a little salt into the water, just 
enough to raise the scum ; let it simmer slowly ; then 
prepare such vegetables as suit the taste ; turnips, car- 
rots, a little cabbage and onion, are very nice; a grated 
carrot or very little tomatoes give the soup a rich taste 
and color; this soup may be thickened with pear} 
barley or rice. Summer savory or thyme flavor any 
soup nicely. 

Portable Soup. 

Boil down any kind of meat to a jelly, season it 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 25 

highly with salt, pepper and spices or herbs ; let it set 
away till partly cold, then pour it into a clean, new tin 
or earthen vessel, and set it away to congeal ; it can 
be used as you want to make soup by cutting a portion 
of the jelly and adding boiling water. Vegetables can 
be added and as much more seasoning as is required 
to make it palatable. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a nicely skinned and cleaned calf's head, soak 
it in a little salt and water over night, rinse it before 
putting it on the iire ; have a large dinner pot of cold 
water with a little salt, put in the head and let it boil 
till tender ; before putting the head in the pot remove 
the brain, which should be thrown into a little salt and 
water to whiten them; after the soup has been well 
boiled and skimmed, add pepper, salt, a little mace and 
cloves, and sweet herbs,, tied up in a thin piece of 
muslin. If you wish a dark soup brown the flour you 
use to thicken the soup with. Before taking it up for 
the table add the juice of two lemons, the yolks of 
eight eggs boiled hard and chopped. Take up the 
head, cut out the tongue, which must be skinned and 
dressed with egg and butter sauce, and served on a 
dish with a garnish of fresh parsley. Chop some of 
the meat from the head and season, mixing a little 
milk and flour and raw egg. Mix well, roll into balls 
and fry in hot lard, and drop with the brains into the 
soup. 

4 



26 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Veal Soup. 

Put a knuckle of veal into a pot of salted water with 
about a pound of ham. When the meat is cooked 
very tender take it out, and have a small head of chop- 
ped celery, one onion, one turnip, a carrot sliced very 
fine, four chopped tomatoes, a small piece of red 
pepper pod, black pepper and salt to suit your taste. 
Thicken with rice, vermicelli, or a thickening made of 
flour and butter. Noodles are very nice in this soup, 
if the vegetables are removed from the soup before the 
noodles are dropped in. Twenty minutes are sufficient 
to let them boil. 



Giblet Soup. 

A very nice soup is made from the neck, feet and 
giblets of fowls, with a little veal or nice beef bone 
added; put these all into a pot of cold water and boil 
gently. The giblets can be removed and chopped fine 
and put back into the soup ; season like any other soup. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



Chicken Soup. 

Have a fine large chicken, it can be put into the 
water whole, and then dressed for dinner, or it can be 
cut as for frying; in either case the chicken can be 
served on the table. Put in very little salt at first; 
remove all scum before putting in anything to flavor 
the soup; have a cup of rice well washed and soaked, 
and any sweet herbs, a small onion, and one or two 
potatoes cut fine. Chicken soup is much better if a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 27 

little parsley is chopped and added; season with pepper 
and salt. Noodles may be substituted in place of the 
rice, , or dumplings made of a little milk, flour and 
butter, and one egg ; beat all well together, and make 
thicker than batter; drop in by the spoonful. Pearl 
barley is very nice in chicken soup, but should be well 
washed and put into the soup when it is first put on. 

Gumbo Soup. 

This is a Southern soup, and can be made in differ- 
ent ways. If made as it should be, it is one of the 
finest soups that can be made. If it is made of okra 
the chickens should tie young and fried a delicate 
brown, with a few slices of nice bacon; when fried 
put them in a pot with boiling water. One must be 
governed by the quantity of soup that will be needed. 
Let the soup simmer slowly, skim well, and add pepper, 
salt, sweet herbs and rice a half teacupful; if the 
okra is green about half at eacupful of that. If this 
is made in the winter it will take a little more of the 
dried ; it is nice with a few oysters added just before 
taking the soup from the fire. The best gumbo is 
made of young chickens, cut up as for frying, and put 
in a pot of cold water, and let them come to a boil; 
when boiled till very tender add salt and pepper to the 
taste. The gumbo is made of dried and powdered 
sassafras leaves, which should be gathered in the fall 
before the frost. One tablespoonful of the powder 
with the same quantity of flour, well rubbed together 
arid dropped in the soup just before it is taken up. A 



28 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



nice pot of well cooked mush should be made to eat 
with this soup, serving a tablespoonful in each soup 
plate. 

Noodles for Soup. 

If you wish noodles for an ordinary pot of soup one 
egg is sufficient; have your flour sifted, make a hole 
in the centre, add one teaspoonful of salt, break in one 
egg, and with one hand stir them gently till the egg is 
well broken and mixed in a smooth dough ; then work 
it quite stiff and roll out as thin as a wafer, keeping 
the board well floured; after it is rolled rub flour over 
the top and let it remain till it begins to dry, then roll 
it up tight and with a sharp knife cut (beginning at 
the end) into small shreds, and open them out as soon 
as you cut them, sprinkling flour over them. 

Oyster Soup. 

In making oyster soup great care should be taken 
not to have it made too long before it is used, as the 
oysters become hard and tough, and have an insipid 
taste. The water should be boiling; have a clean 
bright vessel; put in the water and a pint of new 
milk or good sweet milk ; about one pint of milk to a 
gallon of boiling water ; let it boil, then add the liquor 
from the oysters, butter, pepper and salt ; have a dozen 
nice butter crackers rolled flne ; if you can get it add 
one pint of good sweet cream, then the crackers, and 
last the oysters ; as soon as they are heated through 
the soup is ready for use. In making oyster soup for 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 29 

company it should not be made in large quantities ; if 
convenient it should not be made in larger quantities 
than one gallon, as it becomes tasteless and the oysters 
are hard and unfit to eat. 



Veal Broth. 

Stew a knuckle of veal of four or five pounds in 
three quarts of water, with two blades of mace, an 
onion, a head of celery, and a little parsley, pepper and 
salt ; let the whole simmer very gently until the liquor 
is reduced to two quarts ; then take out the meat when 
the mucilaginous parts are done, and serve it up with 
parsley and butter. Add to the broth either two 
ounces of rice separately boiled, or of vermicelli, put 
in only long enough to be stewed tender. 

Winter Soup. 

Take carrots, turnips, and the heart of a head of 
celery, cut into dice, with a dozen button onions ; half 
boil them in salt and water, with a little sugar in it; 
then throw them into the broth; and, when tender 
serve up the soup ; or use rice, dried peas, and lentils, 
and pulp them into the soup to thicken it. 

With many of these soups, small suet dumplings, 
very lightly made, and not larger than an egg, are 
boiled either in broth or water and put into the tureen 
just before serving, and are by most persons thought 
an improvement, but are more usually put in plain 
gravy soup than any other, and should be made light 
enough to swim in it. 



30 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

FISH. 

Fish should be examined very carefully, as it is one 
of the most unhealthy things that can be eaten unless 
it is perfectly fresh. In selecting them examine the 
eyes; if they have a life-like appearance they are 
fresh; if the eyes are sunken and dark colored they 
are unfit to eat. A good way to test them is to exam- 
ine the gills. 

Crabs should be of a dark green color, and when 
fresh from the water are always lively; the same 
remark holds good with regard to lobsters. 

Never buy a clam or oyster if the shells are parted. 
If the valves are tightly closed the oyster is fresh. 

Boiled Fish. 

Scale your fish first, take out the eyes and gills, 
draw and wash it well. Flour a cloth, wrap the fish 
in it, and boil in plenty of water strongly salted. A 
common sized fish of any kind requires about half a 
teacupful of salt. Put your fish kettle over a strong 
fire, and when the water boils put the fish in it. The 
fish can be stuifed with a stuffing made like turkey 
stuffing, and seasoned very much the same; it must be 
sewed up with a strong thread; let it boil 20 to 30 
minutes. Take the fish out of the cloth carefully, 
place it on your dish and send it to the table. Have 
egg sauce served with it; garnish with parsley. 

If any of the boiled fish is left from dinner it can 
be picked in small pieces, spiced and put into vinegar ; 
it makes an excellent relish for breakfast or tea. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 31 



Boiled Cod Fish. 

Soak a dried cod fish over night in cold water, scrape 
and wash it clean, then put in on to boil in as much 
cold water as will cover it. 

Let it boil one hour. Drain it on your first dish and 
serve it with mashed potatoes, drawn butter, and hard 
boiled eggs. 

Baked Fish. 

Secure any nice fresh fish, such as fresh cod, trout, 
white fish, or any of -the fresh or salt water fish; scale 
them and wash them clean, and let them remain in a 
little salt and water for a short time. Have a stuffing 
made of the crumbs of nice light bread a baker's loaf 
is preferable for its lightness put salt, pepper, butter, 
ad sweet herbs in; with a spoon, as the hand makes 
it heavy, (as it does all stuffing,) fill your fish, sew it 
up, put bits of butter over the top, pepper, salt, flour; 
put in water enough to keep it from burning, and baste 
it often. For a fish of four pounds it will take about 
one hour to bake. If fish is left in any quantity from 
a meal it makes a splendid chowder. Make egg sauce. 



Fish Sauce. 

Take large tablespooiiful of butter in as much flour, 
mix together and melt in a teacup of milk; beat the 
yolk of an egg, stir it in the butter and place it on the 
fire, stirring it all the time. Chopped parsley may be 
added. 



32 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. ^ 

Cod Fish Cakes. 

Soak as much cod fish as will be required for a meal ; 
after it is fresh enough pick it, removing all the bones ; 
mash it with equal quantities of mashed potatoes, and 
season with salt and pepper to your taste, adding butter 
and two or three hard boiled eggs, chopped very fine, 
one raw egg helps to hold it together. Make it into 
cakes, flour and fry them in hot lard. Fry them a 
light brown. 



Spiced Fish. 

Fish of any kind, either boiled or baked, that has 
been left from a meal, is very nice spiced. Take salt, 
black pepper, a little cayenne pepper, two tablespoon- 
fuls of whole allspice, mix through the fish and cover 
with good vinegar. This can be made by soaking a 
fresh shad, or other fish, and boiling it, and when cold, 
picking and spicing it; but it is a very nice way to 
use up cold fish. 



Fried Fish. 

Clean your fish well, wipe it with a dry cloth, split 
down the back, and fry it in halves, unless the fish is 
too large, then make four pieces of it ; pepper, salt and 
flour, or rub on corn meal, and have your frying-pan 
with .your lard in it very hot, and fry a nice light 
brown. 

It is useless to enumerate the different kinds of fish, 
as this manner of frying holds good for all fish that is 
to be fried. It is fried as nicely by setting your 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 33 

skillet or frying-pan in the oven as it is on the top of 
the stove; 'many think it improves the taste. 

Broiled Fish. 

Cleanse them, of course, thoroughly, split them 
down the back, season with salt and pepper. Have 
your gridiron heated and well greased ; put your fis'h 
on and let it broil slowly. It should be nice brown on 
both sides ; have it well basted with butter, and lay the 
two sides together that it may assume its original 
shape. 

Cat Fish. 

This must be scalded with boiling (not hot) water, 
and the skin removed; cut down the back and cut in 
pieces as large as the hand ; salt, pepper and flour each 
piece, and fry in hot lard to a nice brown. Some per- 
sons like it dressed with beaten egg and bread crumbs, 
or dipped in a batter and fried a nice brown. 

Fried Oysters, 

Select the largest for frying. Take them out of their 
liquor with a fork, being careful not to disfigure them, 
let them drain in a colander; when well drained put 
them in a dish, salt and pepper them well, have ready 
some nice butter crackers, rolled fine, and about one- 
third as much corn meal, mix them well together, and 
dip each oyster separately into the crackers ; by putting 
two oysters together and frying them it will be found 
quite an improvement. Fry them in equal quantities 

5 



34 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of lard and butter. Have the lard hot and fry a nice 
light brown. Do not let them burn. 



Stewed Oysters* 

Put your oyster liquid in a stew-pan and add water 
according to the quantity to be stewed; put in salt, 
pepper, and a little butter ; let this begin to boil, and 
then add a half-pint of good sweet cream, a little rolled 
cracker, if liked; then throw in your oysters, let it 
boil up once, and take it immediately to the table. 
This way is splendid if you have the cream. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Take a nice tin or earthen baking dish and grease it 
well. Have ready good butter or pic-nic crackers well 
rolled, cover the bottom of the dish or pan first with 
the crackers, then the oysters, then lumps of butter 
over the top, then pepper and salt, next crackers and, 
so on, till all your oysters are in, putting butter, pepper 
and salt in each layer, put last a layer of crackers, 
with butter on top ; put the oyster liquor in as you are 
putting it in the pan ; put in water, not too hot, suffi- 
cient to cook them, set the pan in the oven and let it 
bake; for two cans of oysters it will take about one 
hour. 



Fried Cod Fish. 

(SENATOR SAMUEL CASEY'S RECEIPT.) 
Take one pound of cod fish, four large potatoes, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful salt, and one of black pepper; 
cook fish and potatoes at the same time, (but in diifer- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 35 

ent vessels,) take the bones out of the fish, peel the 
potatoes, hot right out of the water, mash them and 
the fish well together, with a tablespoonful of flour; 
have the eggs well beaten, and add them to the mix- 
ture with a piece of butter as large as a walnut; mix 
all well together, and fry in cakes, in hot lard; send 
to the table hot. This mixture will be soft and must 
be dropped into the lard with a spoon, as it cannot be 
made out into balls. It is the nicest way I have ever 
prepared codfish for a breakfast dish. The water on 
the fish must be changed while it is boiling; once 
changing will perhaps be sufficient. 

Boiled Fish. 

( SENATOR SAMUEL CASEY'S WAY. ) 

Take cat fish, or any good kind of fish. After clean- 
ing it well, rub it with salt, and wrap it in a cloth not 
too tight; have ready a kettle with boiling water well 
salted ; drop your fish in and let it boil well, the length 
of time must be governed by the size of the fish, for a 
good-sized fish, (say three quarters of an hour,) pour 
melted butter over it. 



To Make Stewed Oysters Tender. 

Turn the oysters with the liquor into a convenient 
dish. With a fork remove each oyster into another 
dish, passing it as you do so through the oyster liquor, 
in order to wash off any bits of shell, etc. When all 
have been removed, strain the liquor through a fine 
sieve, which will retain the bits and yellow crabs. Some 



36 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

people eat these little crabs, but I reject them from the 
oyster stew, as they suggest carelessness. Put the 
strained liquor into the kettle with the quantity of water 
or milk you think proper, and set to boil. Add rolled 
cracker and salt. A little mace (only a little) is a great 
addition, as it brings out the oyster flavor ; I do not 
put in pepper as some guests do not like it, and the 
color of the soup is not so good. Each person can suit 
his own taste by using either the black or cayenne. 
The clearer and whiter a soup appears, the better it 
will be relished. I omit cracker in a dinner soup; 
each guest must be supplied, however, at the table. 
Keep out the oysters until all the ingredients of the 
soup are added, and until it thoroughly boils. Now 
add the oysters. As soon as it comes to a good boil, 
the soup is ready to serve. If you have a very rich 
stew a great many oysters and little soup it may be 
well to put only part of the oysters in at a time, waiting 
until the first lot have had a good scald before adding 
the remainder. The idea is to give each oyster a good 
scald on the outside surface ; it cooks them sufficiently 
and avoids the toughness that comes from overcooking. 
Treated according to these directions the oysters in a 
stew will be as tender as raw ones. It is very easy to 
spoil oysters by overdoing them. 

French Stewed Oysters. 

Wash fifty large oysters in their own liquor; strain 
the liquor into a stew pan, putting the oysters into a 
pan of cold water; season the liquor with a half pint 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK.' 37 

of sherry or madeira, the juice of two lemons, and a 
little mace. Boil this liquor, and skim and stir it well ; 
when it comes to a boil, put in the oysters well drained, 
let them get heated through, but do not boil them. 
Many people consider this the nicest way of stewing 
oysters. 

Clam Fritters. 

Put a sufficient quantity of clams into a pot of boil- 
ing water; when the shell opens wide take out the 
clams from the shells, and put them into a stew pan. 
Strain the liquor, and pour about half of it over the 
clams, adding a little black pepper ; they will not need 
salt. Let them stew slowly for half an hour; then 
take them out. Drain off all the liquor, and mince the 
clams as line as possible, leaving out the hardest parts. 
You should have as many clams as will make a pint 
when minced. Make a batter of seven eggs beaten 
till very light, mix with these gradually a quart of 
milk and a pint of sifted flour; make it perfectly 
smooth and free from lumps ; mix gradually the minced 
clams with the batter, and stir the whole very hard. 
Have ready in a frying pan some boiling lard ; put in 
the batter with a spoon, so as to form fritters, and fry 
them a light brown. Drain them well when done, and 
serve hot. Oyster fritters are made the same way, 
only they must be minced raw and mixed with the 
batter without having been stewed. 

Potted Shad. 

Take the backbone out of the shad, cut it in small 



38 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pieces, then put one layer of shad, one small piece of 
butter, some salt, pepper, and a very small piece of 
mace, clove, and allspice whole; cover with vinegar. 
Bake in an earthen pot, well sealed, eight hours. Six 
whole cloves and the same of allspice is enough for 
three shad; seal the cover with dough, so as to keep 
the air out. 



Oyster Omelet. 

s Strain the liquor from twenty-five large oysters or 
forty small ones, chop them fine, leaving out the hard 
part. Break into a shallow pan, six, seven or eight 
eggs, according to the quantity of oysters, leaving out 
half the whites. Having beaten the eggs well, mix 
in the chopped oysters, adding a little cayenne pepper 
and nutmeg, if you like that spice. Put three ounces 
of the best butter into a frying pan, let it come to a 
boil, pour in the omelet mixture, stir it till it begins to 
harden; fry it a light brown, lifting from the edge 
several times by slipping a knife under it. Take care 
not to cook it too much, or it will be tough; serve 
immediately. This quantity will make one large, or 
two smaller omelets. 



To Pot Trout. 

Take from six to eight trout, from a quarter to half 
a pound in weight each. Gut, scale and wipe them 
dry in a clean cloth. Then dispose of them in a shallow 
dish, about two and a half inches in depth, containing 
a very small portion of water at the bottom, enough to 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 39 

supply a sufficiency of steam to pass through them. 
Add to them a supply of ground mace, ground black 
pepper, salt, and two or three bay-leaves, covering the 
dish over with a tin protection, and consign the same 
to a slow oven, to admit of the fish being steamed 
through. When the prongs of the fork will pass readily 
into them, they will be done and may be taken up. 
When cold, remove the bay-leaves, and let them be 
well covered with clarified butter. 

Lobster Rissoles. 

Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, mince it as fine 
as possible ; mix it with the coral pounded smooth, and 
some yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pounded also. Season 
it with cayenne pepper, powdered mace, and a very 
little salt. Make a batter of beaten egg, milk and 
flour. To each egg allow two large tablespoonful of 
milk and a large teaspoonful of flour. Beat the 
batter well, and then mix the lobster with it gradu- 
ally, till it \9 stiif enough to make into oval balls 
about the size of a large plum. Fry them in the best 
salad oil, and serve them up either warm or cold. 
Similar rissoles may be made of raw oysters minced 
fine, or of boiled clams. These should be fried in lard. 



Champlain Chowder. 

To four pounds fish, one pound fat pork to fry. Fry 
the pork gently in a bake kettle until the fat is out. 
Have ready the fish to put in when the scraps of pork 
are taken out, one quart boiling water to every four 



40 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pounds of fish. Put in with the fish at the same time, 
pepper, salt, and a few sliced onions. Let it stew over 
a quick fire twenty minutes. Take off the cover then, 
and add one gill of milk. In five minutes take it up, 
and add crackers and oysters just before the chowder 
is done, if you wish. 

Stewed Halibut. 

Cut the fish into pieces about four inches square, 
leaving out the bone ; season it slightly with salt, and 
let it stand half an hour. Take it out of the salt, put 
it' in a deep dish, and scatter over it cayenne pepper, 
ground white ginger, and grated nutmeg ; add a pint of 
vinegar, and a little butter rolled in grated bread. Put 
the dish in a slow oven, and let it cook till well done, 
basting it frequently with the liquid. When nearly 
done, add a tablespoon of capers. 



Codfish Cakes A Yankee t 

Take salt codfish that has been cooked slowly; 
simmered, not boiled, the day before. Remove the 
bones and mince it. Mix it with WARM mashed pota- 
toes, mashed with butter and milk, in the proportion of 
one-third codfish, and two-thirds mashed potato ; add 
sufficient beaten egg to make the whole into a smooth 
paste. If it seems dry, add a little butter. Make into 
cakes an inch thick, and as large round as a teacup. 
Fry in salt pork, and serve the slices with the fish 
cakes. These are very nice, if we]l made. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 41 

A Codfish Helish. 

Sliver the codfish fine, pour on boiling water till it is 
freshened; then drain off water, add butter, pepper, 
and heat it a few minutes on the stove, but do not let 
it fry. 

Fried Perch. 

Egg and bread crumbs, hot lard. Scale and clean 
the fish, brush it over with egg, and cover with bread 
crumbs. Have ready some boiling lard ; put the fish 
in, and fry a nice brown. Serve with melted butter or 
anchovy sauce. 

JEgg Sauce for Salt Fish. 

Four eggs, half a pint of melted butter ; when liked, 
a very little lemon juice. Boil the eggs until quite 
hard, which will be in about twenty minutes, and put 
them into cold water for half an hour, strip off the 
shells, chop the eggs into small pieces, not, however, 
too fine. Make the melted butter very smoothly, and 
when boiling, stir in the eggs, and serve very hot. 
Lemon juice may be added at pleasure. 

Curry Fish. 

Put into the pot four onions and two apples, in thin 
slices, some thyme, or savory, with a quarter of a 
pound of fat or dripping, three tablespoon fuls of salt, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, and fry for fifteen minutes ; 
then pour in three quarts of water and one pound of 
6 



42 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



rice; boil till tender; add one tablesoonful of curry- 
powder, mixed in a little water ; cut up six pounds of 
cheap fish the size of an egg; add to the above, and 
boil for twenty or thirty minutes, according to the kind 
of fish. If salt fish is used, omit the salt. If no herbs, 
do without, but always use what you can. 

Fish Sauce. 

Take half a pint of milk and cream together, two 
eggs well beaten, salt, a little pepper, and the juice of 
half a lemon ; put it over the fire, and stir it constantly 
until it begins to thicken. 



MARKETING. 



CARE AND USES OF MEATS. MANNER OF COOKING 
DIFFERENT PARTS OF MEATS AND FOWLS. 



Beef Steaks. 

The sirloin and porter-house steaks should always 
be broiled and broiled quickly. They should never be 
put on the gridiron till your meal is ready to serve up. 
Steaks should not be used the day they are cut ; but if 
possible kept on ice a day or two, they then become 
tender; be governed of course by the weather in such 
matters. Always put your meat in a vessel of some 
kind, and set that on the ice. If the meat is put in 
contact with the ice it becomes white looking, and 
loses all its richness. 



Hoasting Pieces. 

The sirloin roast is considered the best; the next 
piece forward of the sirloin is also a good roasting 
piece. The rib pieces of the forequarter are preferred 
by many ; by removing the ribs and rolling the piece 
it makes a nice roast, and can be stuffed with bread 
crumbs and such seasoning as is used for any ordinary 
dressing for fowls. 



44 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Corned Beef Pieces. 

The rump and round and etch bone are used 
expressly tor corning. The flank and brisket are also 
good corning pieces ; very many prefer the brisket, as 
it has a portion of the fat that is very sweet in boiled 
meat. It is well for persons who can do so, to select 
such pieces as they prefer, and have a large jar or keg, 
and make their own corned beef; they will find it 
much nicer. I have given a well tried receipt for 
corning beef, one that I have used for years, and one 
that cannot fail to please. Corned beef must be boiled 
tender; if used hot for dinner, take what is left and 
put it in some flat bottomed vessel and put a heavy 
weight over it ; put a clean board or flat coyer on, then 
the weight, and set it away till perfectly cold, and 
slice thin for supper; by pressing it it becomes firm 
and is more like tongue. 

A Stuffed Flank. 

Take a toge, nice, well trimmed flank, put it in salt 
and let it remain over night. Then wash it in cold 
water, and wipe it dry. Have a stuffing made as for 
turkey or goose, and spread it well over the meat, put- 
ting on occasionally nicely cut strips of salt pork; 
season this dressing highly ; roll your meat up and sew 
it very tight in a piece of strong muslin ; put it in to 
boil as early as possible in the morning, and boil six 
hours. This is delightful. Put it in a vessel and press 
it, leaving the cloth on till cold ; put a heavy weight 
on, let it remain till cold. Slice very thin. In winter 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 45 

when meat is firm and nice this makes a splendid 
supper dish. 

Time for Boiling Meat. 

The old rule of fifteen minutes Jto a pound of meat, 
is rather too little, I think; the slower it boils the ten- 
derer, the plumper, and whiter it will be. For those 
who choose their food thoroughly cooked, (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs,) twenty 
minutes or more to a pouud will not be found too much 
for gentle simmering over a good fire; allowing more 
or less time, according to the thickness of the joint; 
always remembering the slower it boils the better. 
Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art; 
and cooks seem to suppose they must be right if they 
put meat into a pot and set it over the fire for a certain 
time, making no allowance whether it simmers without 
a bubble, or boils at a gallop. 

FRESH KILLED MEAT 

Will take much longer time boiling than that which 
has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe, and 
longer in cold than in warm weather. If it be frozen 
it must be thawed before boiling as before roasting; if 
it is too fresh killed it will be tough and hard. The 
size of the boiling pots should be adapted to what they 
are to contain; the larger the pot the more room it 
takes upon the fire; and a larger quantity of water 
requires a proportionate increase of fire to boil it. In 
small families I would recommend block tin sauce 
pans, &c., as the lightest and safest. If proper cave is 



46 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

taken of them, and they are well dried after they are 
cleansed, they are far the cheapest. Take care that 
the covers of your boiling pots tit close, not only to 
prevent unnessary evaporation of the water, but that 
the smoke may not get under the edge of the lid, and 
give the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after 
it is done enough, it will become sodden and lose its 
flavor. 

It is very important in boiling meats to keep the 
water constantly boiling, else it will cause the meat to 
soak the water up; if it is necessary to add more 
water, be sure to have it boiling, skim carefully ; salt 
thrown in raises the scum ; always put your meat into 
cold water, and let it gradually heat and boil at first ; 
never let meat remain longer in the water than you can 
help, better to take it up and place it in a heater, if 
possible. The broth in which meat is boiled makes a 
most delicious soup by adding vegetables chopped fine, 
carrots, especially, give a fine flavor to soup. Bunches 
of mixed vegetables and parsly can be procured at the 
market, generally. 

TAKE CARE OF THE LIQUOR*, 

In which you have boiled meat or poultry; in a few 
minutesyou may convert it into a most palatable soup. 

IF THE LIQUOR IS TOO SALT, 

Use only one half, saving the other half for the next 
day; people's tastes vary so much in regard to the 
flavor of soups. Add sufiicient boiling water to the 
portion of broth you wish made into soup, then put in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 47 

such vegetables and herbs as will suit the taste. Ver- 
micelli, macaroni, or our home-made noodles may be 
added. 

Soiled Ham. 

If the ham is large, and to be boiled, it is much 
better to soak it in clear water over night, put it on to 
boil in cold water ; when water is to be added to any- 
thing cooking, always add boiling water. Some persons 
think a boiled ham is much improved by setting it into 
the oven for a short time after you have removed the 
skin and before it has time to get cold. If you boil a 
whole ham, let it remain in the liquor in which it was 
boiled over night, it is a great improvement. 

Tongues. 

They are much better put in brine, and then smoked. 
Make an ordinary brine ; use a little brown sugar and 
a small piece of saltpetre. Two weeks in the brine is 
sufficient ; when taken out let them be washed off in 
clear, cold water, wiped dry, and hung up in a cool, 
dry place, for about two days ; then they may be smoked. 



Mutton Hams To fickle for Drying. 

First take a weak brine and put the hams into it for 
two days, then pour off and apply the following, and let 
it remain on from two to three weeks, according to size : 
For each 100 pounds take six pounds salt; saltpetre, 
one ounce; saleratus, two ounces ; molasses, one pint; 
water, six gallons ; will cover these, if packed closely. 
The saleratus will keep the mutton from becoming 



48 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

hard. These, if properly selected and properly cured, 
are, according to my experience, equal to any dried 
venison I ever ate. I prefer the " corned beef brine " 
receipt, although there is but little difference between 

them. 

\ 

For Corned IBeef. 

(MKS. WM. A, TURKEY.) 

Take a large dinner pot ot rain water and put in it 

One pint salt. 

One pint molasses, 

One pint brown sugar, 

Five cents worth saltpetre. 

Boil all together, skim till clear; let it cool. If it 
will bear an egg, it is all right. This will cover about 
27 or 28 pounds of beef. Next, take 

One tea cup brown sugar, 

One tea cup of salt, 

Five cents worth saltpetre. 

Beat them and mix them well together, and rub each 
piece of the meat well with it ; put the meat into your 
jar or keg, let it stand 24 hours ; then pour over it the 
brine, which should be made the night before. In two 
weeks it is ready for use. This makes the finest corned 
beef I have tasted. 



Sugar Cured Hams. 

( MRS. S. FERGUSON. ) 

For eighteen or twenty hams 
Fifteen ounces saltpetre, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 49 

Four ounces saleratus, 

Four pounds brown sugar, 

Eight quarts tine salt, 

Two quarts molasses. 

Mix well together in a tub, rub the mixture well on 
the face of the hams, putting it all on ; put them in a 
tight barrel. Let them remain four days. Make a 
strong brine that will bear an egg, and pour over the 
hams. Let them remain in the brine from live to six 
weeks, or till well salted ; changing them once in that 
time, putting those that are in the bottom of the barrel 
on the top, so that they will not have the juice pressed 
out of them. When they are sufficiently salted, take 
them out of the brine, wash them well in warm (not 
hot) water, wipe them quite dry and hang them up a 
day or two, before being smoked. When smoked, put 
black pepper on the joints, wrap them up in strong 
brown paper. You can wash them with common 
white-wash, colored with any of the common yellow 
colors, or pack them in a large dry box and cover each 
ham thoroughly with good dry ashes. 



Beef and Mutton 

A little under-done, (especially very large joints,) 
which will make the better hash or broil, is not a great 
fault, by some it is preferred; but lamb, pork and veal, 
are uneatable if not thoroughly boiled, but do not 
overdo them. A trivet, or fish drainer, put in the 
bottom of the boiling pot, raising the contents about an 
inch and a half from the bottom, will prevent that side 
7 



50 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of the meat which comes next the bottom frorp being 
done too much, and the lower part ot the meat will be 
as delicately done as the other part; and this will 
enable you to take out the contents without sticking a 
fork into your meat, which is no benefit to it. 

Ribs of Beef 

The three first ribs make an excellent roasting piece, 
many prefer it to the sirloin for roasting ; if the ribs are 
taken out and it is rolled and skewered, it will be 
round, and can be filled with a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, seasoned and flavored to suit the different 
tastes. As the meat is more in a solid mass, it will 
require more time to roast it. A piece of ten or twelve 
pounds weight will not be well roasted in less than four 
or five hours. Salt, pepper and flour it well before 
putting in to roast. 

M^ltton Chops. 

Mutton chops are better broiled than cooked in any 
other way, and should be broiled over a rather alow 
fire, as the fat that cooks from them usually increases 
the fire. 



Leg of Mutton. 

The leg of mutton is very nice boiled or roasted 
plainly, or can be stuffed and roasted. The loin is a 
roasting piece. The leg is often cured as you would 
cure beef to dry ; it has a much finer grain than the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 51 

beef, and is more like venison. I have cured mutton 
legs in the corned beef receipt, and found them so like 
venison that you could scarcely tell the difference ; they 
chip nicely, the meat is close and firm, and looks 
beautiful on table. 

Pork Steaks. 

The best steaks are off the shoulder; the first ham 
steaks are considered too dry for steaks. 



Spare Hibs. 

Spare ribs are nice if broiled well, broiled without 
burning. They are also nice cut up and stewed, or 
roasted; a pan can be well filled with the spare ribs as 
they are cut from the hog pepper and salt, and a 
very little well powdered sage, sprinkled over each 
layer, and then nicely roasted, occasionally changing 
the pieces so that each piece can be a little browned. 
Many persons like this dish cold. 

Sausage Meat. 

Take about two-thirds of nice lean pork, and one- 
third of fat, chop them nicely, and season with salt, 
black pepper, sage, and a little summer savory. The 
best way is to make out a little cake and fry it, adding 
such seasoning as is needed to give it the right taste. 
There are nice little sausage grinders now in use, 
which are a great convenience, and not costing over 
three or four dollars ; with a little trouble and care 
every family can grind their own sausage and season 
it to the taste. 



52 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Tender-Loin. 

During the slaughtering season families can live 
very much cheaper. The tender loin is a very nice 
breakfast dish, nicely fried, with a well made gravy. 
The backbone, or chine, salted down for a few days, 
and then washed and boiled till tender, makes a good 
dinner. Some persons boil cabbage, turnips and pota- 
toes with it ; it is very relishable, and makes a good 
wash-day dinner, giving you a sufficient variety, and 
very little labor in cleaning after it. 



figs Feet. 

They should be thoroughly cleaned, washed, and 
thrown into salt water over night, then boiled till they 
are almost to pieces ; a little red pepper pod is nice 
thrown in, and a few whole cloves and allspice. 
When they are done, have a jar sufficiently large to 
hold them ; put the feet one by one into the jar, (let 
them well drain first,) then have good, clear vinegar, 
and cover the feet with it ; do not disturb them for a 
day or two, and then they are fit to eat. A nice dish 
for breakfast is made by cutting the feet into halves, 
dipping them into a nice batter, and frying till they are 
a nice brown; the grease for frying anything should 
always be hot. 

Shoulder and Ham. 

These are salted and smoked. Some rub them well 
with dry salt and let them remain till they are suf- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 53 

ficently salted, and have them smoked ; others prefer a 
brine to the dry salt. The weather has considerable 
to do with the length of time they remain in either 
salt or brine, if they freeze it takes longer for them to 
take the salt. 

Curing, Smoking and Keeping Ham. 

To a cask of hams, say from 25 to 30, after having 
packed them closely and sprinkled them slightly with 
salt, let them lie thus for three days; then make a 
brine sufficient to cover them, by putting salt into 
clear water, making it strong enough to bear hip a 
sound egg or potato ; then add one-half pound of salt- 
petre k and a gallon of good molasses ; let them lie in 
brine for six weeks they are then exactly right. 
Take them out and let them drain; while damp, rub 
the flesh side and the end of the leg with finely pul- 
verized black pepper, with a little cayenne pepper ; let 
it be as fine as dust, and rub every part of the flesh 
side, then hang them up for a few days before smok- 
ing. They can then be kept well, after being well 
wrapped in strong brown paper and whitewashed, or 
they can be wrapped and packed in dry ashes ; a little 
well pulverized charcoal mixed through the ashes is a 
great improvement. My own experience has taught 
me that it is very much cheaper, and certainly much 
safer, to have your hams and all meat to smoke marked 
so that you will always get your own meat, and then 
get your butcher to smoke them for you. 



54 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Packing Beef. 

It is a very important thing to know how to keep a 
large quantity of beef. If you have a hind quarter of 
beef to put away, have it cut into steaks and roasts ; 
take such pieces as you wish for dried beef and corned 
beef, put them into your brine. Have a nice, clean 
box, sufficient to hold your steaks and roasts, put this 
box into a larger box and pack that with ice or snow, 
first put a quantity in the bottom of the large box, 
pack the sides tight, cover it closely ; let no ice or snow 
touch your meat, as it draws the blood out and renders 
the meat tasteless ; it should be kept in some dry, cool 
place, smoke house, or any place where it is cold and 
dry, a cellar is too warm and would melt the ice. 



To Try Out Lard. 

It is much better in trying out lard, if you have a 
sufficient quantity to justify you doing so, to render- 
out the leaf fat separately from the other fat; cut 
the fat into small pieces, put it into a clean pot 
over a slow fire, adding at first a little water to keep it 
from burning; let it cook till the cracklings are of a 
reddish brown ; add a little salt, then strain into tin 
cans or stone jars; try out the other fat in the same 
way. 



Mutton. 

As beef requires a large, sound fire, mutton must 
have a brisk, sharp one ; if you wish to have mutton 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 55 

tender, it should be hung as long as it will keep, and 
then good eight-tooth four years' old mutton is as good 
eating as venison. The leg, haunch and saddle will 
be the better for being hung up in a cool, airy place, 
for four or five days at least; in temperate weather a 
week, in cold weather, ten days. A leg of eight pounds 
will take about two hours, let it be well basted. A 
chine or saddle, the two loins, of ten or eleven 
pounds, two hours and a half. A shoulder of seven 
pounds, an hour and a half; they should be well 
watched and often basted. Potatoes, peeled, are 
very nice, roasted with any of the roasting pieces. 

Shoulder of Mutton. 

May be dressed in various ways, but the most usual 
is to roast it nicely, and send it up with onion sauce. 
It is an unsightly joint, but the appearance may be 
improved by cutting off the knuckle, when it may be 
called a shield ; it has more different sorts of meat in 
the various cuts than the leg. The bone may also be 
taken out, and the mutton stuffed; it is very good 
baked, and is frequently served upon a pudding. 



Leg of Mutton Soiled. 

To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim as for 
roasting; soak it for a couple of hours in cold water; 
then put only water enough to cover it, and let it boil 
gently for three hours, or according to its weight. 
Some cooks boil it in a cloth; but if the water be 



56 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

afterwards wanted for soup, that should not be done ; 
some salt and an onion put in the water are far better. 
When nearly ready, take it from the tire, and, keeping 
the pot well covered, let it remain in the water for ten 
or fifteen minutes. 



Cooking a Loin of Mutton. 

From an hour and a half to an hour and three-quar- 
ters. The most elegant way of carving this is to cut 
it lengthwise, as you do a saddle. A neck about the 
same time as a loin. It must be carefully jointed, or 
it is very difficult to carve. 

The Neck and Breast 

Are, in small families, generally roasted together. 
The cook should crack the bones across the middle 
before they are put down to roast. If this is not done 
carefully, they are very troublesome to carve. A 
breast piece about an hour and a quarter to roast. 



The Haunch. 

The leg and part of the loin of mutton. Send to the 
table two sauce-boats of gravy; one of rich, drawn 
mutton gravy, seasoned high, and bruised mint to 
flavor; the other with plain gravy. Roast slowly and 
thoroughly. 

Mutton 9 (Venison Fashion.) 

Take a neck of good four or five year old wether 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 57 

mutton, cut long in the bones; let it hang a few days, 
it will improve it. Two days before you dress it, 
take allspice and black pepper, ground and pounded 
fine, a quarter of an ounce each; rub them together, 
and then rub your mutton well with this mixture twice 
a day. When you dress your mutton to cook it, wash 
off the spice with warm water, rub salt and a little 
fresh black pepper over it, dredge on flour, and put it 
into the stove ; put hot water in the roasting pan, baste 
frequently. 

IBeef a la Mode. 

In making a la mode beef the round is generally 
preferred. I can only give directions for preparing it. 
The size of the meat must be selected according to the 
number to eat it. Every family knows about the num- 
ber of pounds it will take. Select young and tender 
meat, cut holes entirely through the thick part, have 
long strips of salt fat pork, cut and rolled in a season- 
ing of thyme, sweet majorum, sweet basil, cloves, 
pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of each ; then open the 
holes already made in the beef, and draw the strips of 
fat through them. Some like onions; they can be 
used or not, as taste dictates. Put your meat in your 
pot, (or, if cooked in a stove, put it in a covered pan,) 
add sufficient water to cover it, and let it cook slowly 
three or four hours ; make a rich gravy, and just before 
taking it out of the pan or pot, add a pint of either 
claret or port wine If boiled it can be taken out and 
set in the oven a short time ; sprinkle over the top 
powdered crackers. 



58 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Beef Patties. 

This is a nice way to use cold roast beef. Chop tine 
the lean, and a -little of the fat ; season it with pepper, 
and mace, if you like, or sweet herbs. If you have 
any gravy left, moisten the meat with it. Make a nice 
plain paste, and cut it round about the size of a plate ; 
do not roll it too thin ; cover half of each sheet of paste 
with the mash, but do not get it too near the edge; fold 
the other half of the paste over, so as to form a half 
moon; wet your tinger in cold water, and pinch 
together the two edges of the paste. Prick the patties" 
with a fork, put them in a baking pan and bake a nice 
brown, or fry in hot fat, as you prefer. Serve hot. 
Cold veal or cold chicken make nice patties. 

To Hash a Calf's Head. 

Clean the head thoroughly, and boil it for a quarter 
of an hour. When cold, cut the meat into thin, broad 
slices, and put them into a pan with two quarts of 
gravy; and, after stewing three-quarters of an hour, 
add one anchovy, a little mace and cayenne, one spoon- 
ful of lemon pickle, and two of walnut catsup, some 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel, and a glass of sherry. Mix 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter with flour, which 
add tive minutes before the meat is sufficiently cooked. 
Take the brains and put them into hot water, skin 
them, and pound them well. Add to them two eggs, 
one spoonful of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and 
finely chopped parsley, thyme and sage; mix well 
together with pepper and salt. Form this mixture into 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 59 

small cakes ; boil some lard, and fry them in it until 
they are a light brown color, then lay them on a sieve 
to drain. Take the hash out of the pan, and lay it 
neatly on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and lay 
upon it a few mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of 
four hard-boiled eggs, and the brain-cakes. Garnish 
with slices of lemon and pickles. 

Spoon Meats. 

Calf's feet or mutton shanks make mild nourishing 
broth, but have but little richness or flavor of meat. 
To clean them, have a kettle of boiling water on the 
iire, and throw in the feet all at once, or in succession, 
as the size of the vessel allows. Let them boil about 
three minutes, then take one out, when the hoofs and 
hairs will easily come off; loosen the hoof at the root 
and turn it back, scrape the hairs, carrying the knife 
upwards. This must be done immediately on taking 
out of the boiling water, therefore only one at a time 
must be taken out. Feet, and all gristly parts, require 
long boiling, or baking, and consume a large quantity 
of water in the process. 



Minced Beef. 

Cut into small pieces the remains of cold meat; the 
gravy reserved from it, on the first day of its being 
served, should be put into the stew-pan, with the addi- 
tion of warm water, pepper, salt, and a little butter. 
Let the whole simmer slowly for an hour. A few 
minutes before it is served, take out the meat ; add to 



60 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the gravy some walnut catsup, or a little lemon or 
walnut pickle. Boil up the gravy once more, and pour 
over the meat. This is a very nice way to use up any 
kind of cold meats or fowl. A little curry powder 
may be used by those who love high seasoning. 



Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash some well cooked potatoes, add a little cream 
or sweet milk, butter, salt and black pepper. Slice 
cold beef and lay it at the bottom of a deep pie dish, 
with salt, pepper, butter, and a little beef gravy, which 
should always be saved ; cover the whole with a layer 
of the potatoes, then another quantity of the meat, and 
then potatoes, and seasoning, having potatoes reserved 
for the top; make it higher in the middle of the dish 
than at the edges ; put butter on the top and bake a 
light brown. 

Beef's Heart. 

Get a heart of a nice young ox, wash it carefully, 
and with a sharp knife remove from the inside of it all 
sinews ; lay it in salt and water, and let it remain over 
night ; put it on very early in the morning, and boil 
till quite tender; then take out, put strips of ham fat, 
as in a la mode beef, cut the holes with a long, slim 
knife, or make them with a table steel; make a dress- 
ing with bread crumbs and a little onion, pepper, salt, 
and any herbs preferred; fill the heart, and roll it in a 
dough made as for soda biscuit; roll about an inch 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 61 

thick, and secure the edges with flour, that it will not 
come open ; put in a pan, add water, and cover with 
butter, baste well while roasting. This way is very 
nice. It can be pinned in a cloth and boiled, if pre- 
ferred. Make a nice gravy. 

Beef Collops. 

Cut the inside of a sirloin, or any other convenient 
piece, into small circular shapes, flour and fry them ; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shalot ; 
make a little gravy in the pan; send to table with 
gherkin or tomato sauce. Or : Cut thin slices of beef 
from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide 
them into pieces three inches long, beat them with the 
blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops in 
butter two minutes ; then lay them into a small stew- 
pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy, add a bit of 
butter rubbed in flour. 



Beef a la Mode. 

Take a nice piece of round of beef, the size must be 
regulated to the size of the family, cut holes about an 
inch and a half apart, all through the meat ; have nice 
long narrow strips of pork fat, and draw through the 
holes, (that from the fat of ham is nicest ;) salt your 
meat and let it remain an hour or two ; then put it into 
vinegar, (not too strong,) let it remain 24 hours ; then 
have in a. stove pot a nice large piece of butter, let it get 
hot; put in your meat and let it brown nicely in this 
butter, turning it often, and watching it carefully that 



62 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the butter does not scorch, (attention must be paid to 
this to have it nice;) then set the pot on the back of the 
stove, and pour in the vinegar in which the meat 
had stood over night, and add pepper and spices, 
(whole) cloves and allspice; let this simmer slowly 
several hours till done tender ; strain the liquor it has 
boiled in, and make gravy of it. In cutting slices of 
the meat, cut it so you will have the bits of pork all 
through the slice of meat. This is very nice for tea 

cold. 



Beefsteak fie. 

Take rump steaks that have been well hung, cut in 
small scallops ; beat them gently with a rolling pin ; 
season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, minced 
very tine ; put in a layer -of sliced potatoes, place the 
slices in layers with a good piece of fat and a sliced 
mutton kidney; till the dish; put some crust on the 
edge, and about an inch below it, and a cup of water 
or broth in the dish. Cover with rather a thick crust, 
and set in a moderate oven. 



Staffordshire Beefsteak. 

Beat them a little with, a rolling pin, flour and season, 
then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay 
the steaks into a stew pan, and pour as much boiling 
water over them as will serve for sauce; stew them 
very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of catsup, 
before you serve. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



To Mince Beef. 

, Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat ; 
put it into a small stew pan, with some onion, (a very 
little will do,) a little water, pepper and salt ; boil it till 
the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of 
the meat to it, and the mince ; don't let it boil. Have 
a small hot dish with bits of bread ready, and pour the 
mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar 
with it. 



Potted Beef. 

Take three pounds of beef well salted, pick out any 
gristle or skin that may be in it ; pound the meat care- 
fully in a stone mortar, with a little butter, until it 
becomes a fine paste ; season it by degress as you are 
beating it, with black pepper, allspice, or pounded 
cloves, mace, or grated untmeg. Put in pots, pressing 
it down as closely as possible, and covering it about a 
quarter of an ii\ch thick with clarified butter. 



To Stew a Brisket of Beef. 

Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew pot, 
with a small quantity of water; let it boil up, and 
skim it thoroughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, 
celery, and a few pepper corns. Stew till extremely 
tender ; then take out all the flat bones, and remove all 
the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat 
in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, 
garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce 



64 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

is much admired, served with the beef: Take half a 
pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of 
ketchup, a teaspponful of made mustard, a little flour, 
a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few min- 
utes, then pour it round the meat. 



Beef Balls, 

Mince very fine a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; 
mince an onion, with some boiled parsley; add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg and lemon peel ; mix all together and moisten 
it with an egg beaten ; roll it into balls, flour and fry 
them in boiling fresh dripping. Serve them with fried 
bread crumbs. 



Beef Steak Smothered with Onions. 

Cut up six onions very fine ; put them in a saucepan 
with two cupsful of hot water, about two ounces of 
good butter, some pepper and salt; dredge in flour. 
Let it stew until the onions are quite soft, then have 
the steak broiled, put into the saucepan with the 
onions; then simmer about ten minutes, and send to 
the table very hot. 

Head Cheese. 

Take a nice hog's head; have it nicely quartered 
and washed well; let it remain in salt water a few 
hours ; then put on to boil, throw in a little salt at first, 
it will bring up the scum which must be removed ; boil 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



65 



till the meat will drop from the bones; throw in, while 
boiling, cloves, allspice, and some red pepper pod. 
When done, remove from the tire, take out the meat 
with a ladle, carefully remove all bones ; then with a 
spoon or stick mash up all the meat, and mix well ; 
put in a bag, and tie, then put a weight on it, and press 
it; when cold remove a portion of the bag and cut 
into thin slices, and serve with vinegar. The ears 
should be cut off closely, and very carefully washed 
before it is put on to cook. 

Hoast Pig. 

Take a pig that the weight is from seven to twelve 
pounds, let it be about five weeks old. Have your 
butcher kill and clean it ; a great deal depends on the 
way it is dressed. "Wash it thoroughly inside and out- 
side. Take some nice salt pork and chop it fine ; take 
bakers loaf bread, pour cold water on it ; have some 
potatoes boiled and mashed fine, one large chopped 
onion, plenty of pepper, salt and butter, one raw egg, 
and thyme, sweet basil, summer savory and sweet 
marjoram ; mix all well together ; salt and pepper your 
pig; fill it with the stuffing, and sew it up; bend the 
knee joints up to the body, and tie the feet close, so 
they will appear well when it comes to the table. Put 
it in your dripping pan, salt and pepper and flour ; cut 
nice large pieces of the fat of a raw ham and cover 
over the top, it prevents its browning too fast. It 
should be well basted, and often. It will take about 
from mree to four hours to roast it well. Have the 



66 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



liver, lights, and heart boiled tender and chopped for 
the gravy. Put a lemon in its mouth before putting it 
on the table. 



Tripe Stewed. 

Cut tripe into strips, put them in rich gravy, with a 
lump of butter size of a hen's egg, rolled in flour; 
shake until the butter is melted. Add a tablespoonful 
of white wine, some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, 
pickled mushrooms, and a squeeze of a lemon. Shake 
well together, and stir until tender. 



Lamb to Fry. 

Fry slices of lamb in lard till they are a nice brown. 
They are nice served on a dish of spinach, or on slices 
of nicely toasted bread. 



Calf's Head Pie. 

Boil the head an hour and a half, or even longer; 
put it into cold water, pepper, salt, and add a part of 
a red pepper pod while boiling, remove the meat from 
the bones. Boil the bones again in the same liquor 
for an hour longer ; then strain it off, and set it away 
till the next day. To make the pie, boil two eggs for 
five minutes ; let them get cold, then lay them in slices 
at the bottom of a pie dish, and put alternate layers of 
meat and currant jelly, with pepper and chopped 
lemon alternate, till the dish is full, sprinkling each 
layer with pepper, salt and butter. Cover with a 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 67 



crust, and bake, adding the liquor ^that was strained 
the day before. This makes a delicious pot pic. 



Mock Venison. 

( MRS. DR. .PRICE, KY. ) 

Boil a quarter of mutton until tender. (For even- 
ing companies.) Take a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a pint of tomato cutsup, two tumblers of blackberry or 
plum jelly, half tea cup of mixed mustard, (more if 
it is not very strong,) one bunch of celery chopped 
tine, (if you cannot get the celery, use the seed,) one 
teaspoonful of black pepper, a fourth of a teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, half pint Madeira wine or any 
good cooking wine, a tablespoonful of sugar, more if 
the jelly is acid; stew the whole well together; slice 
the mutton -in thin slices in a chating dish, pour the 
sauce over it, and serve hot. This will be sufficient 
for a dinner or an ordinary evening party. 



Mutton Sash. 

Cut cold mutton into small pieces, fat and lean to- 
gether ; make a gravy with the bones that you have 
taken the meat from ; put on a little water, add pepper, 
salt, an onion, butter, and a few potatoes cut up raw ; 
let it boil till these are cooked ; take out the bones ; 
take a little of the gravy up and thicken it with flour ; 
put in your meat and let it boil up once, stirring it well, 
and it is ready to be served up. 






68 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Veal 

Requires particular care to roast it brown and nice. 
Let the fire be the same as for beef; it should cook 
slowly at first, and requires to be well cooked. When 
first put in the oven it should be well basted. It should 
be salted and peppered, a little flour and pieces of but- 
ter put over the top ; as veal is seldom fat, it requires 
either butter or any nice fryings. 

A FILLET OF VEAL, 

Of from ten to twelve pounds, will require from four 
to five hours at a good fire ; some make a stuffing, or 
forcemeat, and put it under the flap ; it is nice left to 
eat cold or to make into a hash ; in cooking it, let it 
brown nicely. 

A LOIN 

Is the best part of the calf, and will take about three 
hours roasting ; cover the kidney fat with heavy, brown 
paper; some cooks send kidneys to the table on but- 
tered toast, which is eaten with the kidney and the fat, 
which is much more delicate than any marrow. Take 
care to keep up a good fire, so that your meat may 
brown well. 

A SHOULDER OF VEAL 

Will take from three to tjiree and a half hours to 
roast ; stuff it with the forcemeat, as you would a fillet 
of veal. 

NECK, 

Best end, will take two hours. The scrag part is best 
made into a pot pie or into broth ; season same as any 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 69 

of the other pieces. If cut up nicely, it makes a nice 
dish of curry ; put in potatoes, salt and pepper ; let it 
boil till quite tender, and just before taking up, rub 
together a little butter and flour to make a nice gravy; 
a teaspoonful of curry powder is a great improve- 
ment. 

The hock and shin are used for soups. The legs, too, 
are good soup pieces. 

The chump end of the loin and the loin are roasting 
pieces.. The hind leg and flank are used for cutlets, or 
can be used to stuff and roast. Neck pieces are gen- 
erally used for stews, pot pies and curries. There are 
few dishes nicer than a nice dish of curried veal. 



Curried Veal. 

\ 

Cut your veal into small pieces, say three or four 
inches long, just as you would for any other stew; 
wash nicely, put into a clean iron pot or saucepan, 
with water enough to cover it ; add pepper, salt, a few 
pieces of nice salt pork, half a teacup of well washed 
rice, butter the size of a hen's egg, and any kind of 
herbs, if you like their flavor ; let it cook slowly you 
can put in a few potatoes, they help to thicken the 
gravy; if it should not be thick enough, wet up a little 
flour, (be sure there are no lumps in it,) and turn in ; 
then add a little curry powder, and you have a most 
palatable dish. You can make nice curries frequently 
of cold meats, such 'as are too often thrown into the 
swill bucket. 



70 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Veal Patties. 

( MRS. N. W. BROADWELL. ) 

Three pounds veal, chopped very fine; one slice of 
salt pork; one onion, all chopped very fine; six crack- 
ers, rolled fine; a piece of butter the size of an egg; 
two eggs ; one teaspoonful salt, and one of pepper; half 
a nutmeg; mix well together, form into a round loaf; 
sprinkle bread crumbs, or rolled cracker, over the top, 
with butter ; bake three hours, baste while baking. It 
is very nice cold, sliced for supper ; the pork can be 
left out, and more butter added, if you like. 



A Plain Veal Pie. 

Cut the meat from an uncooked breast of veal, and 
stew it in a little water. Have ready a pie dish lined 
with paste. Put in a layer of stewed veal with its 
gravy, and a layer of sausage meat; then veal again, 
and then sausage meat. Repeat till the dish is full. 
Cover with paste, and bake it brown. A cheap and 
good family pie. 



Southern Stewed Veal. 

Peel and boil a half dozen fresh spring onions, drain 
them and slice thin and comely. Put the veal in a 
stew pan, season with salt and a little cayenne; cover 
the veal with the onions, and lay on them some bits of 
fresh butter rolled in flour. Flavor with nutmeg and 
lemon, if you like. This stew is very nice, and lamb 
or chicken will make an equally nice one. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 71 

Veal Cutlets To Stew. 

Cut them about half an inch thick, flatten them with 
a chopper, and fry them in fresh butter or dripping. 
When brown on one side turn and do them on the 
other, continuing to do so till they are thoroughly 
done, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. 
Make a gravy of some trimmings, which put into a 
stewpan with a bit of soft butter, an onion, a roll of 
lemon peel, a blade of mace, some thyme, parsley, and 
stew the whole over a slow fire for an hour, and then 
strain it; put one ounce of butter into another pan, 
and when melted mix with as much flour as will dry it 
up ; stir this for a few minutes, then add the gravy by 
degrees till the whole is mixed ; boil it five minutes, 
then strain it through a sieve and put it to the cutlets. 
Some browning may be added, together with mush- 
room or walnut cutsup, or lemon pickle. 



Fricandeau of Veal. 

(MRS. R. E. GOODELL. ) 

Three pounds and a quarter of raw veal; three- 
fourths of a pound of salt pork, chopped very fine; 
one teaspoonful salt; one teaspoon black pepper ; a 
little sweet marjoram, rubbed fine; four soda crackers, 
powdered very fine ; three eggs, (raw,) mix well to- 
gether with the hands, to make adhere ; form into a 
large ball or roll, rub with butter, strew pounded 
cracker over it, place it in a pan and bake slowly two 
and a half hours. Slice, when cold, for tea. This is 
used for evening parties. 



72 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Veal Sweatbread. 

Trim a fine sweetbread (it cannot be too fresh) ; par- 
boil it for five minutes, and throw it into a basin of 
cold water. Roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of an 
egg, and prepare some fine bread crumbs. When the 
sweetbread is cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; run a 
lark-spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the ordin- 
ary spit; egg it with a paste brush, powder it well 
with bread crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried 
bread crumbs round it, and melted butter, with a little 
mushroom catsup and lemon juice, or serve them on 
buttered toast, garnished with egg sauce or with gravy. 



Veal and Oyster IPie. 

Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a small 
quantity of grated lemon peel. Cut some veal cutlets, 
and beat them until they are tender; spread over them 
a layer of pounded ham, and roll them round ; % then 
cover them with oysters, and put another layer of the 
veal fillets, and oysters on the top. Make a gravy of 
the bones and trimmings, or with a lump of butter, 
onion, a little flour, and water ; stew the osy ter liquor, 
and put to it, and fill up the dish, reserving a portion 
to put into the pie when it comes from the oven. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take a cold fillet of veal, omit the fat and mince as 
fine as possible, mix with one-fourth pound of fat ham, 
chopped fine ; a teacup grated bread crumbs, a grated 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 73 

nutmeg, two beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, and a 
half saltspoon cayenne ; mix well together in the form 
of a loaf. Glaze over with the yelk of egg, and strew 
over pounded cracker. Set the dish in an oven, and 
bake half an hour. Make a gravy of the trimmings of 
veal, or some of the gravy left when the meat was 
served the first day. Heat up the gravy, thickened 
with the yelk of an egg dropped in just before taken 
up, and serve the loaf with the gravy poured round it. 



Veal Pie. 

Take a shoulder of veal, cut it up and boil one hour, 
then add a quarter pound of butter, pepper and salt, 
cover the meat with biscuit dough, cover close and 
stew half an hour, and it will be ready. 

Veal Stuffing. 

Chop half a pound of suet, put it in a basin with 
three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, a little thyme, 
three whole eggs, mix well. A pound of breadcrumbs 
and one more egg may be used, it will make it cut 
firmer. 



Minced Veal. 

Chop fine the pieces of cold roast veal; heat over 

the gravy, or if none is left, melt a piece of butter the 

size of an egg in a gill of hot water, stir till it is 

melted, lest it become oily; when it boils, put in the 

9 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



veal and cover it, stir it several times while cooking; 
season with pepper and salt. Toast a few slices of 
bread and lay on the dish, put the veal on the toast. 

Veal Patty. 

( MRS. HERVEY ELLIOTT. ) 

Four pounds of veal, 

One pound and a half of pickled pork, 

Three eggs, 

Six crackers. 

Chop the pork and veal about as iine as mincemeat; 
then add the eggs, well beaten, and the crackers finely 
rolled; season with salt and pepper to suit the taste. 
Bake about two hours, occasionally basting it. 



Breast of Veal. 

Cover it with the caul, and, if you retain the sweet- 
bread, skewer it to the back, but take off the caul 
when the meat is nearly done ; it will take two and a 
half to three hours' roasting; serve with melted butter 
and gravy. 



Veal Dressed with White Sauce. 

Boil milk, or cream, with a thickening of flour and 
butter; put into it thin slices of cold veal, and simmer 
it in the gravy till it is made hot without boiling' 
When nearly done, beat up the yolk of an egg with 
any nice table sauce that suits the taste ; pour it gently 
to the rest, stirring all the time ; let it just come to a 
boil, and it is done. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 75 



Sandwiches, (Very Fine.) 
. Chop the ham or tongue very fine ; add mustard, 
pepper, extract of celery, and melted butter to taste, 
and hot water enough to make it spread. Have fresh, 
light bread, (or beaten biscuits,) cut thin, butter, and 
then spread on the prepared meat. 



Veal Minced. 

Cut veal from the bone into small pieces; put in 
veal or mutton gravy, pepper, salt, a little butter, cat- 
sup, if it is liked. Put it into a saucepan, and simmer 
it slowly; when nearly done thicken with a little flour 
rubbed up with butter, stir in, giving it time to thicken 
well. 



Fricasseed Chicken. 

Cut up chicken, and boil with a slice or two of pork 
in sufficient water to cover, till quite tender. Fry some 
pork, and when cooked a little, drain the chicken and 
fry with the pork till quite brown. Then take out, and 
pour the broth into the frying pan, with the pork fat, 
and make a gravy thickened with browned flour; season 
well with butter, and put the chicken into the gravy. 
Be sure and have the fat quite hot when the chicken 
is put in, so it will brown readily. 



Roast Turkey. 

See that your turkey is washed and free from all 
small feathers; examine the inside well that nothing is 
left there that ought to be removed ; remove the craw 



76 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

and wind pipe, that is often carelessly left in. Make 
a stuffing as for " roast pig," if it is liked, if not, any 
plainer dressing will do ; fill your turkey, and sew it 
up. Salt and pepper to your taste, dredge on flour ; 
put bits .of butter on the top. A turkey of ten pounds 
will take about three hours to cook. It should be well 
basted and kept from blistering, if it blisters it is cook- 
ing too fast. Turkey should be cooked very thoroughly, 
if it browns to rapidly, put a paper of three or four 
thicknesses over it. The giblets should be put on 
early and boiled very tenderly, and then chopped as 
fine as it can be chopped and the gravy made of it. 
To make the gravy, take the giblets after they have 
been chopped, put pepper, salt and butter, and dredge 
in sufficient flour to make it thick enough. When 
your turkey is removed from the pan, pour in sufficient 
gravy from the pan on the giblets, and boil it. 



Hoast Goose. 

A goose should be roasted in the same manner as a 
turkey. It is better to make the stuffing with some 
mashed potatoes ; always an onion, as a goose is' not 
good without it, (the onion can be omitted in a turkey.) 
Put salt, pepper, butter, and a little sage; stuff and 
roast well. Some like goose a little rare, that is a 
matter of taste. Apple sauce is good to eat with goose. 



Roast Ducks. 

Ducks should be, as well as all other fowls, washed 
with great care ; they should be wiped dry and singed 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 77 

well, then wiped again. They should be stuffed with 
a stuffing as for goose. A pair of ducks will cook in 
about an hour. Baste them well, and dredge them 
well with flour to make them brown. Canvass back 
ducks are generally cooked without stuffing. 



Egg Frizzle. 

Pour boiling water on to dried beef, that has been 
slivered very tine; change the water a time or two, if 
the beef is too salt, then pour off the water, and frizzle 
the beef in butter. When done, break in two or three 
eggs, and stir till the egg is hardened. This may be 
done without the egg, if preferred. 



Sauce for Roast Beef or Mutton. 

Grate horseradish on a bread grater into a basin ; 
then add two tablespoonsful of cream, with a little mus- 
tard and salt; mix them well together; then add four 
tablespoonsful of the best vinegar, and mix the whole 
thoroughly. The vinegar and cream are both to be 
cold; add a little powdered white sugar. This is a 
very line sauce, it may be served in a small tureen. 



Croquettes. 

These are a sort of mince meat dumpling. Take 
some cold veal, chicken, lobster, or tender cold beef, 
chopped tine. Put a half tablespoon butter in a sauce- 
pan on the tire. When melted, put in a piece of onion 
chopped tine; fry a little; add half a tablespoon of 



78 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

flour. When it browns put in the minced meat ; stir 
it steadily, and add salt and pepper. Then add a gill 
and a half of broth, and set the pan a little off the tire 
to simmer. Chop three stalks of parsley fine, and 
mix it on the fire, stirring all the time. Then break in 
two eggs, stirring faster; in two or three minutes take 
it from the fire and set it to cool. Thus far has occu- 
pied about ten minutes. When the meat is cold, sift 
some flour on the board; take a lump of the mince the 
size of an egg, or larger, roll it in the fine flour, dip it 
in a cup of beaten eggj drain and roll it in bread 
crumbs ; have a quantity of boiling suet, or drippings 
in a frying pan, and fry the croquettes in them for a 
couple of minutes, till brown. Put in a colander, and 
let the fat drain off. 



An Economical Dish. 

Steam or boil some mealy potatoes ; mash them to- 
gether with some butter or cream, season them, and 
place a layer at the bottom of the pie dish ; upon this 
place a layer of finely chopped cold meat, or fish of 
any kind, well seasoned; then add another layer of 
potatoes, and continue alternating these with more 
chopped meat until the dish is filled. Smooth down 
the top, strew bread crumbs upon it, and bake until it 
is brown. A very small quantity of meat serves in 
this manner to make a nice, presentable little dish. A 
sprinkling of chopped pickles may be added, if con- 
venient, and when fish is employed, it eats better if 
first beaten up with raw eggs. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 79 

French Stew. 

Cut into pieces two or three pounds of the lean of 
fresh, tender beef, veal or pork, and peel and slice a 
quarter of a peck of ripe' tomatoes ; season the whole 
with a little pepper and salt. Put the whole into a 
stew pot, and cover it close, opening it only occasion- 
ally to see how it is cooking. Put no water to stew, 
the juice of the tomatoes is enough liquid. When the 
tomatoes are dissolved, stir in a piece of fresh butter 
dredged with flour. Let it stew about a quarter 
of an hour longer. When the meat is done through, 
have ready some bits of very dry toast cut in a three- 
cornered shape, leaving the crust off. Dip the toast 
for a moment in some hot water, butter it, and stand it 
up around the inside of a deep dish. Fill in the stew 
and serve hot. 



Potatoes Roasted under Meat. 

Half boil large potatoes, drain the water from them, 
and put them into an earthen dish or small tin pan, 
under meat that is roasting, and baste them with some 
of the dripping. When they are browned on one side, 
turn them and brown the other, send them up round 
the meat, or in a small dish. 

For a French Pot an Feu. 

Put into a large earthen pot or pipkin six pounds of 
good fresh beef, and four quarts of water. Set it on a 
slow fire, skim it when it simmers, and when nearly 



80 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

boiling add one teaspoonfnl salt, half a pound of liver 
cut in pieces, and some black pepper ; add two or three 
large carrots sliced, four turnips pared and quartered, 
eight young onions peeled and sliced thick, two onions 
roasted whole, a head of celery cut up, a par snip sliced, 
and six potatoes pared and quartered ; also a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Let all boil slowly and steadily, skim- 
ming well; let it simmer live or six hours. Lay some 
large slices of bread in the bottom of a tureen, pour 
the soup upon it. This is a very good, plain dish. 



9 Plain Family Irish Stew. 

Take about two pounds of scrag or neck of mutton ; 
divide it into ten pieces, lay them in the pan ; cut eight 
large potatoes and four onions in slices, season with 
one teaspoonful and a half of pepper, and three of 
salt ; cover all with water ; put it into a slow oven for 
two hours, then stir it all up well, and dish up in deep 
dishes. If you add a little more water at the com- 
mencement, you can take out when half done a nice 
cup of broth. 

Sow to Cut a Chicken to Fry. 

Have a sharp knife to begin with; then cut the 
wings off first; then the legs, cutting them carefully 
and neatly; throw each leg toward the back of the 
chicken and sever it from the body through the hip 
joint; next cut the chicken through the back; remove 
the lower portion of the back, then the neck piece, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 81 

cutting it off through the rib joints ; this leaves the 
breast piece, which should be cut in two lengthwise. A 
chicken cut up in this way looks much neater than to 
cut it in any other way. The leg can be cut in two 
pieces, making it more handy to serve at the table. 
With care, and a little practice, this art may be easily 
learned. 



Stewed Habbits. 

Cut the shoulders of the rabbits, and throw them 
into a little salt and water to draw out the blood ; when 
ready, cut them in pieces and put them in a pot with 
water enough to cook them; wash and peel some nice 
potatoes and cut them in pieces, and put in with the 
rabbit ; let it stew till the rabbit is cooked very tender ; 
then take flour and butter and rub them well together, 
and stir in ; let it boil up till it makes a nice gravy ; 
pepper and salt to suit the taste. 



Rabbit Pot Pie. 

Prepare the rabbits by cutting them up and putting 
them into a little salt and water ; let them remain till 
cleansed from all blood spots. Make a dough, not too 
short, and if you wish a boiled pot pie, put in your 
rabbits and potatoes intermixed with pieces of the 
dough, that should be rolled out about half an inch 
and cut in oblong pieces ; put in the dough alternately 
with the potatoes and rabbits ; put salt, pepper and but- 
ter, and water enough to cook it and make the gravy ; 



82 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

put a crust on the top of the pot ; let it boil slowly, and 
if you wish the top crust browned, heat a griddle or 
cover and put on till it is brown. When your dinner 
is ready to serve, have your dish or platter ready, 
take off the top crust, and with a ladle dip up the 
rabbits ; the gravy will be thick enough, unless there 
was too much water put in. When all. is out, pour in 
your gravy and put on the top crust. Pot pies are 
made the same way to be baked. 

Chicken, veal, pigeons, squirrels and quails are 
made into pot pies, the same directions answering for 
all. Care should be taken not to put to put too much 
water, and there should be quite enough to cook the 
pie, leaving enough to make enough gravy or the pie 
will be very dry. All such pies or stews should be well 
seasoned. 

Broiled Rabbits. 

Take the hind quarters of the rabbit and v pound 
them well; salt and pepper, and have your gridiron 
well greased and heated ; put them on and let them 
broil slowly. When done, butter and send to the 
table hot. The butter should be melted in a pan, with 
a little sprinkle of flour and a good deal of pepper. 
Put the rabbits in a piece at a time, and with the 
pounder mash them into the butter. 



Broiled Quails. 

These are the nicest of birds, and require great care 
to have them nicely cooked. They are considered 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 83 

best when nicely broiled. Each quail should be picked 
over carefully, then they should be pounded slightly 
with the steak pounder, to break the bones and give 
them an opportunity to broil. A very nice way to 
serve them is to toast bread a light brown, and butter 
each piece well; lay a bird on each piece of the toast, 
and pour the butter in which they were dipped over 
the whole. If the toast is not liked, serve without. 

Potted Rabbit. 

Take very young fat hares or rabbits ; wash and soak 
them in salt and water ; then take them out of the 
water and wipe each piece quite dry; pepper, salt, 
and flour them well, and fry them nicely in hot lard; 
then take them from the stove and put them in a stone 
jar; pour the gravy, which should be made like 
chicken gravy, over them, adding one pint of boiling 
water; set this jar, which must be covered tight, in the 
oven, and let it remain about an hour and a half. 
The English think this a choice dish, and add one 
tumbler of good port wine. 



Stewed Prairie Chidden. 

Out the chickens in pieces, wash and pick off all 
small feathers ; put them in a pot, with just enough 
water to cook them, with salt, pepper and butter. 
Make a nice gravy of flour and butter, and stir in just 
before taking them up. Prairie chickens, if young, 
are splendid broiled. 



84 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Fried Chickens. 

This is one of nicest ways that chickens can be 
cooked, and there is no way that requires more 
attention. If chickens are killed and picked at home, 
they should not be allowed to remain in the boiling 
water in which they are scalded; they should be 
picked as quick as possible, and then as soon as they 
are thoroughly cleaned, throw them into cold water 
till you are ready to cut them up ready for frying. 
Each piece should be salted and peppered, and dredged 
with flour ; have the lard hot, and after all the pieces 
are in, cover with a tight fitting cover, let it fry 
slowly. Make a gravy by putting a little flour in 
the skillet, (after you have taken up the chickens.) 
Pour in boiling water and then a little milk or cream ; 
pour gravy over the chickens, or serve in a gravy boat. 



Chicken Salad. 

For two chickens, take 

The yolks of eight hard boiled eggs, 

One small teaspoonful of salt, 

One-half of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. 

One-half a wine glass made mustard, 

One wine glass and a half of vinegar, 

Two wine glasses of sweet olive oil. 

As much celery as there is chopped chicken. 

The chicken can be chopped very tine, or in larger 
pieces, as taste may dictate; chop celery tine; chop 
eggs very tine, mix with the chicken ; then add the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 85 

celery and other ingredients ; add more vinegar, if too 
dry, and black pepper. To tins quantity about eight 
good sized pickles may be chopped tine and added, 
many think them an improvement. 



Mayonaise. 

A SUPPEK DISH. 

Six hard boiled eggs, (yolks only,) 

Four tablespoonsful mixed mustard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One teaspoonful sugar, 

Ten tablespoonsful of vinegar, 

Ten tablespoonsful of rich cream, 

One teaspoonful celery seed. 

Slice cold fowl, or other delicate meat, and lay in 
the above mixture two or three hours before tea ; wash 
lettuce and put on ice; just before tea is ready lay al- 
ternate layers of meat and lettuce, leaving lettuce for 
the top. Pour dressing over the whole. 



Smothered or Baked Chickens. 

Your chickens should be large and fat; split them 
down the back and put them in your dripping pan; 
salt and pepper, with plenty of butter put over the 
top ; set them in the stove, with water sufficient to cook 
them. This is baked chicken. If you wish them 
smothered, cover a closely fitting pan over them, and 
let them cook slowly; put flour over the top before 
you put them in the stove. Make gravy with flour in 
the dripping pan in which they are cooked. 



86 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

To Cook Calf's or Beef's Liver. 

Cut the slices half an inch thick ; put in a pan and 
pour over them some boiling water till it becomes 
white ; pour off the water ; salt, pepper, and flour each 
slice, and fry in hot lard ; turn often, that it may not 
become hard when done ; take up on your dish ; shake 
flour into skillet; add a little salt and pepper, and 
sweet milk enough to make a nice, thick gravy ; let it 
boil up once and pour over your liver. Always 
remove the skin from the li ver before frying it. 



VEGETABLES 



There is nothing in which the difference between an 
elegant and an ordinary table is more seen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more especially of greens. 
They may be equally as fine at first, at one place as at 
another, but their look and taste are afterward very 
different, entirely from the careless way in which they 
have been cooked. They are in greatest perfection 
when in greatest plenty when in full season. By sea- 
son, we do not mean those early days, that luxury in 
the buyers and avarice in the sellers, force the various 
vegetables ; but the time of year in which, by nature 
and common culture, and the mere operation of the 
sun and climate, they are in most plenty and perfection. 

Potatoes and peas are scarcely worth eating before 
mid-summer. 

Unripe vegetables are as insipid and unwholesome as 
unripe fruits. As to the quality of vegetables, the middle 
size are preferred to the largest or the smallest; they 
are more tender, juicy, and full of flavor just before 
they are quite full grown; freshness is their chief 
value and excellence, and I should as soon think of 
roasting an animal alive as of boiling a vegetable after 
it is dead. The eye easily discovers if they have been 



88 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

kept too long. They soon lose their beauty in all 
respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, etc., and the various produc- 
tions of the garden, when first gathered, are plump 
and firm, and have a fragrant freshness no art can give 
them again ; though it will refresh them a little to put 
them into cold spring water for some time before they 
are dressed. 

TO BOIL THEM 

In soft water will preserve the color best of such as 
are green. If you only have hard water put to it a 
teaspoonful of soda. 

TAKE CARE TO WASH 

t 

And cleanse them thoroughly from dust, dirt and in- 
sects. This requires great attention. Pick off all the 
outside leaves ; trim them nicely ; lay them in a pan of 
clear, cold water, with a little salt in it, and let them 
remain an hour at least before cooking. 

TO HAVE VEGETABLES DELICATELY CLEAN, 

Put on your pot with sufficient water and a little salt ; 
make it boil and skim it perfectly clean before you put 
on greens of any kind to cook. They should not be 
put in till the water boils briskly. The quicker greens 
boil the greener they will be. 

WHEN VEGETABLES SINK 

to the bottom of the pot they are generally done 
enough, if the water has been kept boiling Take 
them up immediately or they will lose their color and 
goodness; drain off all the water before sending to the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 89 

table. This branch of cooking requires the most vigi- 
lant attention. If vegetables are a minute or two too 
long over the tire, they lose all their beauty and flavor. 
If they are not thoroughly boiled tender, they are very 
indigestible. 

TO PRESERVE OR GIVE COLOR 

in cookery, many good dishes are spoiled; but the 
rational epicure who makes nourishment the main end 
of eating, will be content to sacrifice the shadow to 
enjoy the substance. Once for all, take care that your 
vegetables are fresh; for the fishmonger often suffers 
for the sins of the cook, so the cook often gets unde- 
servedly blamed instead of the green grocer. - 



Potato Cakes. 

Peel enough good sized potatoes for a meal for the 
family ; grate on a coarse grater, and stir in from three 
to five eggs ; then add a little flour more eggs will not 
hurt them; stir. well, and fry in hot lard, and, if tried 
once, my word for it, they will be tried again and often. 

Potatoes. 



There are few articles in families more subject to 
waste, both in paring, boiling, and being actually 
thrown away, than potatoes ; and there are few cooks 
but what boil twice as many potatoes every day as are 
wanted, and fewer still that do not throw the residue 
away as totally unfit, in any shape, for the next day's 
10 



90 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

meal ; and yet, if they would take the trouble to heat 
up the despised cold potatoes in many or any of the 
various dishes recommended, they would find a cheap 
and very agreeable appendage to either the breakfast 
or dinner table. We are all potato eaters, (and esteem 
them beyond any other vegetable,) yet few know how 
to cook them well. 



Plain Boiled Potatoes. 

Put them into a saucepan with scarcely sufficient 
water to cover them. Directly the skin begins to 
break, lift them from the fire, and as quick as possible 
pour off every drop of the water. Then place a coarse 
(we need not say clean) towel over them, and return 
them tcrthe fire again until they are thoroughly done 
and quite dry. A little salt should have been added 
to the water before boiling. Care should, of course, 
be used that they do not scorch or burn. 

Potatoes to Mash. 

These should be boiled in the same manner as the 
above directions ; peeled, and mashed till there are no 
lumps of the potato left ; salt to the taste ; butter the 
size of an egg for about a dozen potatoes ; a little good 
sweet cream or new milk; mash well together and 
serve while hot. 

Mashed Potatoes 

May be put into a pie plate of tin or earthenware, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 91 

smoothed over the top till quite round; make a hole 
in the centre, put in a lump of butter, and set it in 
the stove and let it brown nicely. Some persons beat 
up the yolk of an egg and put over it, this is a 
matter of fancy altogether. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Wash very clean your potatoes, cutting a small piece 
from each end, by so doing the steam or heat escapes, 
and the potatoes are more dry and mealy. Do not let 
let them remain in the oven to get too hard and dry ; 
judgment should be used to have them just done in 
time to serve, as they will be spoiled if they remain 
long in the oven. 

Potatoes Fried Whole. 

When nearly boiled enough, put them into a stew 
pan with a bit of butter or some clean beef drippings ; 
shake them about often to prevent burning, till they 
are brown and crisp ; clear them from the fat. It will 
be an improvement if they are floured and dipped into 
the yolk of an egg, and then rolled in finely sifted 
crumbs. 



Tomato Omelet. 

Select your tomatoes ; pour over them boiling water 
to remove the skins ; then chop them, and put them in 
a saucepan without any water; put one or two onions 
chopped fine, a lump of butter the size- of an egg, pep- 



92 ILLINOIS COOK -BOOK. 

per and salt to the taste ; cook slowly, and till they are 
pretty well cooked; then have ready the yelks of two 
eggs, well beaten, with half a teacup of sweet cream, 
and pour this into the cooked tomatoes, just before you 
take them from the stove, stir well; do not leave this 
on the stove after the eggs are stirred in, else the eggs 
and cream will curdle. 



Potatoes Escolloped, 

Mash potatoes in the usual way ; then butter some 
nice, clean scollop shells, patty pans or saucers; put 
in your potatoes ; make them smooth at the top, strew 
some bread crumbs over them; rub, or pour, over each 
a little melted butter ; set them in the oven to brown ; 
when done, take them out and turn them over, and if 
the under side is not browned, set them again into the 
oven a few minutes. 

Saratoga Fried Potatoes. 

Peel and slice large, nice potatoes, slice them very 
thin ; have a kettle with lard, and when it boils, put in 
a portion of the potatoes, and fry them a light brown ; 
keep moving them about till they are crisp ; take them 
from the lard with a skimmer, let them drip free of the 
lard ; send them to the table hot ; salt may be added 
after they are taken up, or they can be salted before 
frying. When they are used in winter for breakfast, 
they should be prepared over night and thrown into 
salt water; in the morning, dip them from the water; 
lay them in a clean, dry cloth, and wipe off all the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



water, then fry them as above. This way of prepar- 
ing them over night in winter is better, as the mornings 
are so very short, and it takes considerable time to pre- 
pare them. This way is preferred to almost any other 
way of frying potatoes. It would not do for an every 
day dish, as it takes considerable lard, and would be 
rather expensive at the end of a year. 



Potato Fritters. 

( MBS. RYAN. ) 

Three eggs, one quart sweet milk, and a little flour ; 
rub in the flour with the eggs, salt to the taste. The 
batter must not be too thin. Then add well mashed 
potatoes ; have a little lard in a skillet, it must be hot, 
and drop the mixture in by spoonsful in small cakes ; 
fry a light brown. They must be eaten hot. 



Plain Fried Potatoes. 

Potatoes can be par-boiled, and the skins removed ; 
then sliced and fried, for either breakfast or dinner; 
and the potatoes left from dinner, put away carefully, 
are nice sliced and fried. 



French Batter for Frying Vegetables. 

Moisten a little flour with water, and add to it a 
small quantity of salt, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and 
a spoonful and a half of French brandy ; beat up the 
mixture thoroughly, and when you are ready to use it, 



94 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

beat into it the white of an egg previously beaten to a 
strong froth. This batter may be used for frying 
sweet entremets, in which case sugar must be put 
instead of salt. 



Potato Snow. 

Pick out the whitest potatoes, put them on in cold 
water ; when they begin to crack open, pour off the 
water and put them in a clean saucepan before the fire 
till they are quite dry, and fall to pieces ; rub them 
through a wire sieve on the dish they are to be sent to 
the table in, and do not mash them, but let them 
remain as they fall from the sieve. They should be 
salted, of course, while they are boiling. 



Squash. 

Gather the summer squashes when young and ten- 
der. If the scallop, the seeds will do no harm ; cut it 
in quarters, and boil in a bag until tender ; squeeze out 
all the water, and season with salt and butter ; pepper 
can be added at the table. 

Turnips 

Should always be boiled whole, and put in much after 
either carrots or parsnips, as they require less boiling. 
When used in stews, they are cut into small pieces the 
size of dice, or made into shapes with a little instru- 
ment to be found at all cutlery shops. They may be 
mashed in the same manner as parsnips, but some per- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 95 

sons add the yelk of a raw egg or two. They are also 
frequently made into a puree to thicken mutton broth. 



String Beans. 

Gather them while young enough to break crispy ; 
break off both ends, and string them ; break in halves, 
and boil in water with a little salt, until tender; drain 
free from water, and season with butter. 



Succotash, or Corn and Beans. 

If old beans are used, they must be soaked over 
night, and parboiled in two waters before putting in 
the pork. The corn should be added to the beans and 
pork about fifteen minutes before the hour for serving 
the dinner. It is well to boil the cobs with the beans 
and pork in the last water. Remove them before 
adding the corn. For using beans not fully ripe, one 
change of water is sufficient ; the pork can be parboiled 
at the same time. Beans for succotash should remain 
whole ; care must be taken that they boil gently, so as 
not to break them. Considerable water is generally 
used in boiling the beans, that no more need be added 
when the corn is put in ; most persons like consider- 
able soup in this dish. Families can be governed by 
taste in this. Dish the corn and beans in a deep dish 
with the broth, and season with butter and a very little 
salt; use no pepper, if any person desire it, it is easily 
added. Serve the pork on a platter, after taking off 
the skin and dotting it with pepper, by dipping the 



96 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

little finger in ground pepper and pressing it on the 
pork. 

Tomato Stew. 

Take large, ripe tomatoes, scald, peel and quartei 
them, and sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper. 
Put in a stewpan some thin, tender beef steaks, lamb 
or mutton chops. Bury the meat in the tomato, and 
add bits of fresh butter rolled in flour and sugar, if 
you do not like the acid of the tomatoes ; add a chopped 
onion or two, if you like it. Cook slowly till the meat 
is done and tomatoes all dissolved to a pulp. Add no 
water to this stew. A very wholesome dish. 



Sweetbreads and a^llifiowers. 

Take four large sweetbreads and two cauliflowers. 
Split open the sweetbreads and remove the gristle. 
Soak them awhile in lukewarm water ; put them into 
a saucepan of boiling water, and set them to boil ten 
minutes. Afterward lay them in a pan of cold water 
to make them firm. The parboiling is to whiten 
them. Wash, drain and quarter the cauliflowers. 
Put them in a broad stewpan with the sweetbreads on 
them ; season with a little cayenne and a little nutmeg 
add water to cover them. Put on the lid of the pan 
and stew one hour. Take a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter and roll in two tablespoons of flour; 
add this with a teacup of milk to the stew, and give it 
one boil up, and no more. Serve hot, in a deep dish. 
This stew will be found delicious. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 97 

To Stew JRed Cabbage. 

Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and 
put it into a saucepan with pepper, salt, no water but 
what hangs about it, and a piece of butter; stew till 
quite tender, and when going to serve, add two or 
three spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil over the 
fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. 



Fried Egg Plant. 

Peel the egg plants, slice them thin, sprinkle a little 
salt over them,* and let them remain half an hour ; 
wipe the slices dry, dip them into beaten yelk of egg, 
then into grated cracker, and fry them a light brown 
in boiling lard, seasoning them slightly with pepper 
while they are cooking. Another way is to parboil the 
egg plants, after they are peeled, in water with a little 
salt, then slice thin, dust them with corn meal, flour, 
or corn starch, and fry them brown. 



Green Corn Dumplings, ' 

A quart of young corn grated from the cob, 
Half a pint of wheat flour sifted, 
Half a pint of milk, 
Six tablespoonsful of butter, 
Two eggs, 

A saltspoonful of salt, 
A saltspoonful of pepper, 
Butter for frying. 
Having grated as tine as possible sufficient young fresh 



98 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

corn to make a quart, mix with it the wheat flonr, and 
add the salt and pepper. Warm the milk in a small 
saucepan, and soften the butter in it. Then add them 
gradually to the pan of corn, stirring very hard, and 
set it away to cool. Beat the eggs light, and stir them 
into the mixture when it has cooled. Flour your 
hands and make it into little dumplings. Put into a 
fryingpan a sufficiency of fresh butter, (or lard and 
butter in equal proportions,) and when it is boiling hot, 
and has been skimmed, put in the dumplings, and fry 
them ten minutes or more, in proportion to their thick- 
ness. Then drain them, and send them hot to the din- 
ner table. 



Green Corn in Winter. 

Take tender green corn, (sweet corn is best,) boil it 
ten minutes. Then cut it from the cob and dry it in 
the sun. Corn preserved in this way will keep for 
years, and will be perfectly fresh when brought on the 
table. To prepare for use, cook it until tender in as 
little water as possible. When nearly done, add milk, 
butter and salt to taste. 

Tomato Pudding. 

Pour boiling water on tomatoes, remove the skins ; 
put in the bottom of the pudding dish some bread 
crumbs, them slice the tomatoes on them, season with 
sugar, butter, pepper and salt; add some more bread 
crumbs, then the sliced tomatoes and seasoning; and if 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 99 

the tomato does not wet the bread crumbs, add a little 
water. Then, for a small pudding, beat up two eggs, 
and pour over the top. Bake about twenty minutes. 



To Broil Tomatoes. 

Wash and wipe the tomatoes, and put them on the 
gridiron over live coals, with the stem down. When 
that side is brown turn them and let them cook 
through. Put them on a hot dish and send quickly to 
table, to be there seasoned to taste. 



To Bake Tomatoes. 

Season them with salt and pepper; flour them over, 
put them in a deep plate with a little butter, and bake 
in a stove. 

Fricasseed Egg Plant. 

Having peeled and sliced the egg plants, boil them 
in water with a saltspoonful of salt, until they are 
thoroughly cooked. Drain off the water, pour in suf- 
iicient milk to cover the slices, and add a few bits of 
butter rolled in flour ; let it simmer gently, shaking the 
pan over the fire till the sauce is thick, and stir in the 
beaten yolks of two or three eggs just before it is 
served. 



Beets. 

These should be, as all other vegetables should be, 
fresh gathered, carefully selected, well washed, and 



100 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

they should be put into cold water. In cutting off the 
tops, do not cut too closely, or you will lose the rich, 
red color. They should be salted while boiling, and 
when done, taken up and thrown a few moments 
into' clear, cold water, the skin will then slip off easily ; 
slice them thin, and dress with butter and pepper; 
vinegar, if it is preferred. 

Parsnips. 

These are a nice winter vegetable, and are very nice 
boiled and 'dressed with butter, pepper and salt. They 
should be sliced lengthwise. A very nice way is to 
have butter hot in a skillet, and lay each piece nicely 
in the butter, and fry, turning over, that both sides 
may be browned. 

Cabbage. 

The Early York is a nice summer cabbage, and 
should be boiled with nice salt pork or corned beef, or 
a piece of brisket, either is nice, and makes a good 
family dinner. 



Asparagus 

Should be young, and freshly cut; boil in a litt)^ 
salted water; they should be tied carefully before put- 
ting in the water ; (have nice bread toasted, if it is 
liked that way;) when done, take up, cut off the 
string, pour over the toast, if used, and if not, dress it 
with melted butter. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 101 



~Peas. 

Boil peas in salted water, and dress with butter. 
Some make a drawn butter, and some put cream and 
butter; all tastes are not alike. In the manner of 
cooking, that must be left to the tastes of those who 
are to eat them; but one thing should always be looked 
carefully to, that is to be sure they have not lain in 
the market for a week or more; they are not only 
unfit to eat, but are very unhealthy. 



String Beans. 

These should always be gathered fresh ; string them, 
by breaking oif both ends and pulling off the string 
that is on either side ; they should then be broken. 
Always boil bacon with these. 



To Preserve Mushrooms. 

To each quart of mushrooms allow three ounces of 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of one lemon, 
clarified butter. Peel the mushrooms, put them into 
cold water, with a little lemon juice ; take them out 
and dry them very carefully in a cloth. Put the but- 
ter -into a stewpan capable of holding the mushrooms ; 
when it is melted, add the mushrooms, lemon juice, 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt; draw them down 
over a slow fire, and let them remain until their liquor 
is boiled away, and they have become quite dry, but be 
careful in not allowing them to the stick to the bottom 



102 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

of the stewpan. When done, put them into pots, and 
pour over the top clarified butter. If wanted for im- 
mediate use, they will keep good a few days without 
being covered over. To re- warm them, put the mush- 
rooms into a stewpan, strain the butter from them, and 
they will be ready for use. 

Mushrooms Stewed in Gravy. 

One pint of mushroom buttons, one pint of brown 
gravy, quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
cayenne and salt to taste. Make a pint of brown 
gravy, cut nearly all the stalks away from the mush- 
rooms and peel the tops; put them into a stewpan, 
with the gravy, and simmer them gently from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Add the nutmeg and a sea- 
soning of cayenne and salt, and serve very hot. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe dry, and bake in a 
quick oven, according to their size half an hour for 
small ones, and from three-quarters to an hour for 
larger ones. Let the oven have a good heat, and do 
not open any more than necessary to turn them, until 
they are done. 

Roasted Sweet Potatoes. 

Having washed them clean and wiped them dry ; 
cover them with ashes, and then with hot coals; 
watch them closely that they do not burn. (This can 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 103 



only be done when yon burn wood, and can be done in 
the hearth of the stove.) 



Soiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them clean, put them in a pot or stewpan and 
pour boiling water over to cover them ; cover the pot 
close, and boil fast for half an hour or more, accord- 
ing the size ; try them with a fork ; when done, drain 
off the water, take off the skin and serve. 



Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, across or 
lengthwise, and fried in hot lard or butter. 



Summer Squash. 

Squashes to be tit to eat, must be fresh, if they are 
not, the outside will be crisp when cut with the nail. 
Cut them in small pieces, and if not very tender, pare 
off the outside skin, scrape the seed from the inside ; 
wash them and put them in a saucepan and cook till 
tender ; add salt to make them palatable. After they 
are cooked well, let them cook down slowly till all the 
water is all cooked out and they are thick; then dress 
them with butter and pepper; put them in a dish; 
smooth them over the top, and they are ready for the 
table. 



Young Beets. 

Wash fresh pulled young beets; break the tops 



104 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

from them, pick from them all the withered leaves, 
and put them with the beets into a pot of hot water; 
cover it, and let them boil fast for half an hour, or 
longer, if the beets are large; then take the tops into 
a colander, and press all the water from them ; take 
the beets into a pan of cold water and rub off the skin 
with the hand: put the pressed tops into a dish, slice 
the beets over them ; make a small cup of vinegar 
hot, with a bit of butter the size of an egg ; add salt 
and pepper to the taste ; add a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, if liked. If the stalks of beet tops are long, 
cut them from the beets and the leaves, tie them in 
bunches and boil, and serve like asparagus. 



Greens and Sprouts. 

Cabbage sprouts, young beet tops and the green, 
young turnips, are boiled with salt meats or in clear, 



salt water. 



Spinage. 

Spinage should be carefully picked over and well 
washed, and let remain in cold water till ready to cook ; 
have your water boiling and salted; put in your 
spinage, and do not let it boil more than twenty minu- 
tes. When time to serve, drain in a colander till all 
the water has drained off; then dress with butter and 
pepper. Another way to dress it, is to drain it as dry 
as you can, and put it in a chopping bowl, chop it 
very line indeed ; have ready eight or ten hard boiled 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 105 

eggs, chopped as tine as you can chop them; mix the 
the eggs well through the spinage; put butter and pep- 
per. It will have to be returned to the stove and 
warmed again before putting it on the table. 



Slaw. 

Two eggs, well beaten, 

One teaspoonful dry mustard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One teaspoonful sugar, 

One-half teaspoonful flour, 

One-half teaspoonful black pepper, 

A little cayenne, 

Three-fourths of a teacupful vinegar, 

Three-fourths of a teacupful cream or new 
milk, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

One-half teaspoonful celery seed. 
Mix and beat all well together, and place the mix- 
ture in a another vessel containing boiling water till it 
is the consistency of thick cream; stir well; pour hot 
over cabbage. 

Hot Slaw. 

Cut the cabbage with a slaw cutter, or very tine 
with a knife ; put a little vinegar, butter, pepper and 
salt, into a skillet, let them get hot; put in your cab- 
bage, and when heated thoroughly, add a little cream, 
if you have it, and dish up. It is nice without cream. 
11 



106 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



To Sake Beans. 

Boil the beans, (of course the quantity must be reg- 
ulated by the size of the family,) say one quart in two 
or three quarts of water, till they begin to crack 
open ; put in a teaspoonful of soda while they are boil- 
ing ; when ready to bake, drain off all the water in 
which they were cooked ; then put them in a pan large 
enough to hold them, and a piece of nice, fat salted 
pork which will weigh one or two pounds; score the 
pork across the top and settle it in the middle of the 
beans ; cover all with water, and two tablespoonsful of 
molasses or sugar, and bake in a moderate oven two 
hours. Do not forget the sweetening, or you will not 
have Yankee baked beans. 



Corn. 

Corn, for boiling, should be full grown, but young 
and tender. When the grains become yellow, it is too 
old. Strip off the leaves and all the silk; some leave 
the inner leaves and pull them up over the corn before 
putting it in the water ; have plenty of water ; add salt, 
and let the pot boil briskly for half an hour. 



Hotniny. 

Wash the hominy clean, through two or three 
waters ; then put it into a pot, allowing two quarts of 
water to one quart of hominy ; let it boil slowly three or 
four hours. When done, take a portion up in a dish, 
dress with butter, and serve hot. The rest can be put 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 107 

away, to keep cool, and be used the next day; add 
salt while it is boiling. Hominy is very nice fried as 
a breakfast dish. 



Cucumbers. 

Have them fresh gathered ; pare them and lay them 
in cold water till near dinner; slice them very thin; 
pepper, salt, and vinegar to the taste. 



Salsify. 

Scrape the salsify roots, and wash them in cold 
water; parboil them, and if preferred, cut in small 
slices and fry. The nicest way is to boil tender, and 
add salt, pepper, butter and cream. If exposed to 
to the air it will turn blackish. 



Com on the Cob. 

Corn to boil should be young and tender; remove 
the husks, and carefully take off all the silk; have a 
pot of boiling water salted sufficient for the corn, 
and boil from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an 
hour, according to the age of the corn. 

ANOTHER WAY TO COOK COEN. 

After removing silk and husks, cut the corn from 
the cob, but do not cut too closely into the cob, but 
take a knife and scrape it down; cook it well till all 
the water is cooked out, then dress it with pepper, salt 
and butter. It is also good to cook in this way, ad- 



108 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

ding tomatoes, and is a very nice dish baked in the 
stove, adding butter and bread crumbs as you put it in 
the pan. 

Celery. 

Pick over and wash celery well, and let it lie in 
cold water till time to put it on the table, then wipe 
each piece dry. Send it to the table in a celery glass, 
and eat with salt only ; or, as many prefer, chop tine, 
and use a salad dressing. 



To Boil Onions. 

Take off the tops and tails and peel them; put on 
water sufficient to cover them ; throw in a little salt ; 
boil till perfectly done; then pour off the water and 
throw in a little sweet milk to whiten them ; take up 
and dress with butter and pepper. 



Onions Fried. 

Peel and slice your onions, and put them into a 
skillet with very hot lard in it, cover tight; or, throw 
them in with a beef steak as you are frying it. They 
are very fine in this way. 

Potato Cakes. 

Take two pounds of very mealy boiled potatoes, 
mash them very tine with a little salt, mix them with 
two pounds of flour, add milk enough to make this into 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 109 

dough, beating it with a spoon, and put a little yeast. 
Set it before the fire to rise, and when it has risen 
divide it into cakes the size of a muffin, and bake 
them. These cakes may be cut open and buttered hot. 
They are particularly nice. 



Cold Peas. 

Mash them; boil cream, and thicken it with the 
peas ; add a little butter, pepper and salt to the taste. 
Beans can be used in the same manner. 



Cold Corn. 

Grate it, and make it into cakes, with egg and a 
little flour ; fry in hot lard a light brown. 



Green Corn Pudding for Meat. 

Grate about twelve large, full ears of sweet corn, to 
this add one quart of sweet milk, one quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, four well beaten eggs, as much 
pepper and salt as is necessary to season it well; stir 
well together and bake in a well greased pudding dish. 
This is an excellent dish to eat with meat. 



Egg Plant. 

The best directions are as follows: Cut the plant 
across into thin slices, lay them in salt over night; in 
the morning take them from the brine, wash them and 
wipe each piece dry, and sprinkle finely powdered 



110 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

crackers over both sides of the slices ; then fry brown 
(not black) in just enough grease to keep them from 
sticking to the griddle. Some use corn rneal instead of 
crackers. A friend says: Cut them in slices nearly 
an inch thick; sprinkle on salt, and let them lay one 
on the other all night, with a light weight on the top. 
In the morning drain off the brine, roll in flour and fry 
in hot butter, and they can't be beat. 



COOKING EGGS 



Omelet with Cheese. 

Beat six eggs very light; add two tablespoonsful of 
cream, butter the size of a walnut, a little chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and two ounces of grated cheese. 
Beat all well together, and pour into a pan in which a 
small piece of butter is melting; let it cook until of a 
light brown, then fold it over and dish for the table. 
Shake the pan while the omelet is cooking. 

Omelet. 

Three teaspoonsful milk to one egg, beat the eggs 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. Ill 

light, then pour into a pan in which a little butter is 
melted hot, lifting the bottom with a knife so the softer 
parts can run in; cook three or four minutes. Salt 
to taste. 



Sard Boiled Eggs. 

Those who like hard boiled eggs, and want them to 
digest well, should boil them hard for thirty minutes, 
and they are then lit to eat. I thought this out of rea- 
son till I tried it myself; the eggs thus cooked are 
mealy and delightful. 

Egg Omelet, (Very Fine.) 

Take six eggs for each omelet, beat the yelks and 
whites separately ; salt and pepper the yelks, and beat 
till they are very light; have the whites beaten stiff; 
have a long handled frying pan, or one that flares out 
at the edge; put in about a tablespoonful of butter, 
have it hot; put in the yelks, and quickly put in the 
whites ; stir together till it is well mixed, and in* a few 
moments turn one half up over the other and put into 
an oblong dish, and serve as hot as possible. This is 
a most excellent omelet, and is very nice with a little 
onion chopped very tine fried in the butter quickly be- 
fore putting in the egg. This omelet must be made 
very quickly. 

Poached Eggs. 

Have a skillet with water boiling, a little vinegar 



112 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

added; break in the eggs carefully; dress with butter, 
pepper and salt. 

PicMed Eggs. 

The eggs should be boiled hard, and then divested 
of their shells ; when cold, put them in a jar, and pour 
over them (sufficient to cover them) vinegar in which 
has been boiled the usual spices for pickling. Tie the 
jar down tight; do not make many at a time, es- 
pecially in warm weather; in winter, first pour the 
vinegar over red cabbage, and , when it is a bright 
color pour it off and strain it over the eggs. It is 
nice to have a jar of white and a jar of the red eggs, 
they look handsome mixed on the table. 

To Keep JEggs. 

To four quarts air-slacked lime, put two tablespoons- 
ful cream tartar, 'two of salt, and four quarts cold 
water. Put fresh eggs into a stone jar, and pour this 
mixture over them. This will keep nine dozen, and if 
fresh when laid down, they will keep many months. 
If the water settles away so as to leave the upper 
layer uncovered, add more water. Cover close, and 
keep in a cool place. 

JBggs Plain Soiled. 

This being beyond question the most popular way 
of serving eggs, we must commence by giving it in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 113 

the approved French method. Get ready a saucepan 
of boiling water, place in it some fresh eggs, immedi- 
ately remove the saucepan from the fire, put on the 
lid, and let the eggs remain exactly four minutes. 
Take them up, and serve them, while warm, in a dish. 
The eggs, if so preferred, may be put into cold water 
over a quick fire, and when the water comes to a boil, 
they are done. 

Eggs a V Ardennaise. 

Break the shells of a dozen eggs. Separate the 
yelks from the whites, and keep each yelk by itself. 
Beat the whites to a froth ; add to them a little salt, 
pepper, and thick cream. Pour this into a well but- 
tered, deep dish, and arrange the yelks upon the top. 
Put the dish into a gentle oven, and, when set, serve 
them hot. 



Eggs sur le Plat. 

Heat some butter upon a tin or pewter dish; care- 
fully break into it as many eggs as you think suf- 
ficient, arranging them neatly ; season with salt and 
pepper; add a few teaspoonsful of good thick cream, 
and place the dish for six minutes over a clear fire, 
and serve directly. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Take three eggs, beat them up well, then add to 
them a gill of sweet milk. Place some butter (about 



114 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

the size of a large walnut) at the bottom of pan, pour 
the mixture into it, and boil until quite thick. Pour it 
upon buttered toast, and grate some ham or beef 
over it. 



Egg Balls. 

Take the yelks of six hard boiled eggs ; pound them 
in a mortar, together with a little salt, one dessert- 
spoonful of flour, / and a small quantity of pepper. 
When a smooth, but stiif paste is formed, add as much 
raw yelk of egg as will serve to mix it of the con- 
sistency required. Make it into balls, poach them, 
and serve them upon buttered toast, or any sauce ap- 
proved of. 



BREAD MAKING AND YEAST. 



Good bread depends as much on having good yeast, 
as on having good flour. The cheapest flour in the 
end is always the best There is no one thing on 
which the health of a family so much depends as on 
good, well-baked bread. Biscuits made of baking 
powder, or soda and cream tartar, are, when made 
right, very nice, -and often it is very convenient to 
make them, but they are not so healthy as biscuit 
made of good yeast. In order to secure good bread, 
great care should be taken to make the yeast a special 
object. There are a great variety of ways of making 
good >y east. I will give a number of receipts, all hav- 
ing been tried and found good 



Sop Yeast. 

Take a good handful of fresh hops, pour boiling 
water, let it boil till the water is sufficiently strong of 
the hops ; have sifted flour enough to make a batter, 
not too thin, by straining the boiling hop water over 
it; let it cool; if you have a quart, put half teacupful 
of white sugar, a spoonful of salt and a teacupful of 
good, fresh yeast. Set it away to rise. When you 
wish to make your bread, take flour enough to make a 



116 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sponge sufficient to make the amount of dough you 
wish, wet it to a batter with warm (not hot) water; 
have three or four well mashed potatoes and a teacup- 
ful of the hop yeast; let this rise well, and then 
make up your bread ; add salt ; work your bread well, 
but not too stiff. When you make out your rolls, give 
them ample time to rise well. 



Grated Potato Yeast. 

Take two or three potatoes, if not large, two if good 
size ; grate them and pour boiling water on them, and 
set it in a vessel on the stove, and stir like starch 
till it is well cpoked and clear ; while it is hot stir in 
flour sufficient to make a strong batter; when cool, if 
too thick, thin it with the water in which your potatoes 
have been boiled, (if they have been peeled ;) add a 
teacupful of good yeast ; let it rise well, and it is tit 
for use. It is well to make your yeast, or sponge, for 
bread, near dinner time, in order to have the potato 
water to put into it. 

Bottled or Jug Yeast. 

( MRS. ZIMMERMAN. ) 

Yeast that will Keep Six Months. Take ten or 
twelve good sized ripe potatoes, wash them well and 
put them to boil with the skins on in a gallon of 
water, boil till done ; take them out of the water, and 
wash them while hot, (peeling them ;) then take two 
good handsful of hops and boil well in the potato 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 117 

water, then strain the water over the mashed potatoes ; 
add one cupful of brown sugar and one of salt, and a 
half cupful of ginger; boil the hops through one or 
two waters, to get all the strength out of them ; let it 
cool; add a half pint of the same kind of yeast or 
of baker's yeast; after standing in ajar 24 hours, put 
in bottles or in a jug, and cork tight ; set in the cellar 
for use. One large spoonful is enough for one loaf of 
bread. Make sufficient sponge to make the bread; 
add your yeast, and let it lighten; it will be salt 
enough. 

Bottled Yeast. 

Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, four or 
five spoonsful; wet the flour with a little water till it 
is smooth and free from lumps, boil near half an hour, 
sweeten with half a pound brown sugar; when near 
cold, put into it four spoonsful of fresh yeast ; put it 
into a jug, shake well together; let it stand one day 
to ferment near the fire, without being corked. There 
will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured 
off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. 
Take, always, four spoonsful of the old to ferment the 
next quantity, keeping it always on hand. 



Potato Yeast, with Mashed Potatoes. 

Boil well, and mash six or seven good sized pota- 
toes ; stir in flour while they are hot, and save the 
water in which they were boiled to thin it with ; add a 



118 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

little salt, a half cupful white sugar, and a teacupful 
of good, fresh yeast. I have learned from experience 
that it is a piece of economy to make yeast near din- 
ner time, or make it so you can use the water in which 
your potatoes have been boiled for dinner. You can 
boil enough for dinner and your yeast, thus saving the 
water, which is the life of good bread. For buns, 
English tea cakes and Spanish buns, I always use the 
yeast made of the grated potatoes. It must be made 
and used fresh. Bread and rolls of all kinds must be 
watched, carefully, kept warm but not hot' bread 
should never be allowed to be heated while it is rising. 
It is the care given to bread from the making of the 
yeast, till it is taken out of the oven, that gives success 
in bread making. 

Sally Lunn. 



One quart flour, 

Piece of butter size of an egg, 

Three tablespoonsful sugar, (white, if prefer- 
red,) 

Two eggs, 

Two teacupsful milk, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

A little salt. 

Stir the cream tartar, salt, and sugar into the flour ; 
add the eggs without beating, the butter melted, and 
one cup of the milk. Dissolve the soda in the other 
cup of milk, and stir all together. Bake in three pans, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 119 



the size of a breakfast plate, fifteen or twenty minutes. 



Soda Biscuit. 

Into one quart of flour, stir two teaspoonsful cream 
tartar and a little salt, add two tablespoonful rich 
cream or one of butter, dissolve one teaspoonful soda 
in a little hot water ; mix with milk soft. 



Bread Cake. 

( MRS. N. W. BROADWELL. ) 

One pint of bread sponge, 

One pint of brown sugar, 

Half a pint of butter, 

Two eggs, 

Spices to suit the taste. 

Raisins, currents and citron, one pound of each, (or 
more or less to suit the convenience,) the more fruit, 
of course, the richer; stir in flour enough to make it 
stiff enough to drop clear from the spoon; one tea- 
spoonful of soda; put it in pans, and let it rise as you 
would bead; bake slowly. This is nice without fruit. 

Snails. 

Make a sponge as for bread ; add to one quart of the 
sponge 

Two eggs, 

One teacupful of sugar, 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, 



120 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cinnamon and nutmeg, (if it suits the taste.) 
Beat all well together; let this lighten well; then 
work in flour enough to make, as for any other rusk, 
(not too stiff;) set it where it will be warm enough to 
rise quickly ; when thoroughly light take a piece of the 
dough, dredge flour on your breadboard and roll the 
dough out as for biscuits; then cut it into strips about 
an inch and a half wide ; butter the top of each strip, 
sprinkle a little cinnamon and sugar on the butter, and 
then with the hands roll each strip till it is as large/ as 
an ordinary biscuit ; grease a pan ; set these endwise 
in the pan and set to lighten ; then bake slowly, they 
resemble snails. The remainder of the dough can be 
made out in the same way. Some make a portion of 
the dough in this way, and roll the rest and cut out or 
make out with the hand. Rolling these snail fashion 
makes them very nice; the butter makes them flakey 
and easy to break open. 



Soufle Biscuit. 

Cut up four ounces of butter in a quart of flour ; 
make it into a smooth paste with new milk ; knead it 
well, add a little salt, and roll out as thin as paper; 
cut out the cakes with a tumbler, and bake quickly. 
Serve hot. 



Cream Cakes. 

Beat three eggs very light, stir them into a quart of 
cream, alternately with a quart of flour, and add one 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 121 



wine glass of strong yeast, (good potato yeast is best,) 
and a little salt. Cover the batter and set it near the 
fire to rise. When quite light, stir into it a large 
tablespoonful of butter that has been warmed (not 
melted) by the lire. Bake the cakes in muffin rings, 
and send to table hot. Split with your fingers and 
butter. A knife put into them makes them sodden. 



To Make Yeast. 

Five large potatoes, one quart of boiling water, one 
cup of brown sugar, one cup of yeast. Boil your po- 
tatoes, and sift them; add your sugar, when milk- 
warm, your yeast; half a cup is sufficient for two 
loaves. 



Common Bread Cake. 

Take the quantity of a loaf from the dough, when 
making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces 
of butter, two of sugar, and eight of currants. Warm 
the butter in a teacupful of good milk. By the addi- 
tion of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two, 
'you may make the cake better. A teacupful of raw 
cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a 
pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. 



Milk Yeast. 

In case you should get out of yeast, and are in a 
hurry, make milk yeast. Take one pint of new milk, 
pne teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of flour stir- 
12 





122 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

red in, stand it in a kettle of water by the stove, and 
keep it lukewarm all the time. "When very light, add 
lukewarm water, make into loaves or biscuit, and let 
them rise by the fire before cooking. 



Buns. 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful sugar, 
Half cup of yeast, 
Half pint milk. 
Make it stiff with flour; add, if you like, nutmeg. 



66 Peculiars," or Graham Puffs. 

To one pint of Graham flour, add one pint of milk 
and one egg. Stir in the flour slowly, till it becomes a 
smooth (not thick) batter. Use no soda, nor yeast. 
Bake immediately. The best bakepans are of cast 
iron, with twelve sockets which must first be heated, 
then greased, filled and instantly returned to the oven. 
If new, the pans should be first scoured with soap 
and sand, then greased, heated and rewashed. Puffs 
may also be made without the egg, with milk and 
water, or all water. They may also be made of rye 
flour or corn meal. The corn meal requires an egg. 
This receipt is sufficient for twenty-four puffs. 



Butter Biscuit. 

Sift one quart of flour in a pan, and make a hollow 
in the centre large enough to admit a pint of milk and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 123 

one pint of yeast; mix into a sponge, set it to raise; in 
the morning add one pound of melted butter, and 
knead in as much flour as will, with another pint of 
warm milk make soft dough ; make out the biscuit in 
pans to rise; when sufficiently light, bake in a well 
heated oven. 



Rusk. 

One quart flour, 

One pint milk, 

One-quarter pound of butter warmed in the milk, 

Two well-beaten eggs, 

One teaspoonful mace or cinammon, 

One wine glass and a half of fresh yeast. 
Mix well and set away to rise; divide into pieces of 
equal size; knead each piece separately, and put them 
into a pan to rise again. When quite light, bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Dutch Rolls. 

One quart flour, 

Two eggs, 

Half pint of milk, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

One gill yeast. 

Beat the eggs, add the milk to them with the melted 
butter; pour this into the flour, having first put in the 
yeast. It must be mixed softer than bread, and if not 
moist enough, add more milk. Let it rise before 
baking. 



124 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Raised Muffins. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in one pint of 

milk, 

A little salt, 
Two eggs, 
Half gill yeast. 
Flour, to make a thick batter. 



Rye Drop Cakes. 

One egg, 
Two cupsful rye, 
Two cupsful flour, 
Half a cupful sugar, 
A teaspoonful salt, 
A teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half a teaspoonful soda, 
A teaspoonful melted butter, 
A cupful and a half of milk. 

Drop from a spoon on a flat pan, and bake half an 
hour. 



German Waffles. 

Warm a quart of milk, cut up and soften in it one- 
quarter pound of butter. Beat eight eggs, and stir in 
with one-half pound of sifted flour, two tablespoonsful 
of good, strong yeast ; set it in a warm place to rise. 
When well risen it is time to bake in greased waffle 
irons. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 125 

Pop Overs. 

( ELLA MOREAN, ST. LOUIS. ) 

One teacupful sweet milk, 
One teacupful flour, 
One egg. 

Beat till very light, and have well greased your 
muffin pans and drop them in; set them in the oven. 
It takes but a few minutes, they will puff up, and are 
done. 

i 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. 

To one quart thick, sour milk, stir in wheat flour 
until it is quite a batter, add a little salt. When the 
griddle is hot enough, dissolve one teaspoonful of 
soda in a little hot water ; stir it into the batter quickly 
and bake the cakes. Soda should never be put into 
any kind of cakes or corn bread until it is just ready 
to go into the oven, as the effervescence takes place, 
?nd if it is put in before, its effect is in a great 
measure lost. 

Muffins. 

One teacupful yeast, 
Three eggs, 
One teacupful flour, 
One pint sweet milk, 
A little salt. 

Let it rise until it is quite light, and bake in well 
greased muffin rings. 



126 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Buckwheat Cakes. 

To a quart of buckwheat flour an even teaspoonful 
of salt ; stir in warm wateE till it is the consistency of 
thin batter; beat it thoroughly, add half a cupful of 
good yeast; set the batter where it will be a little 
warm, if made over night. A spoonful of soda dis- 
solved in hot water and stirred in in the morning, 
improves them very much. 

_ - '* 

Buckwheat Cakes with Sour Milk. 

This can be made at any time, and at a moment's 
notice. Take your buckwheat and mix it with good, 
sour milk, a little salt, a teacupful of indian meal ; mix 
it just stiff enough for cakes; add a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in warm water, stir in and bake. 



Corn Meal Cakes. 

Take one or two eggs, according to the quantity 
you wish to make; beat well; add salt, then sour 
milk, and next your corn meal; beat all together. 
Dissolve a spoonful soda in hot water, and stir in well. 
Have your griddle hot and well-greased with a piece 
of salt pork, if you have it. 



Waffles. 

Have three eggs, well beaten, sour milk and a little 
salt; stir in flour till it is sufficiently thick, a very 
little thicker than for griddle cakes. Dissolve soda in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 127 

hot water, stir it in the batter, and beat all well to- 
gether. Have your waffle irons well heated on both 
sides before putting the batter in ; bake them a nice, 
light brown. 

Brown Bread. 

( MKS. ELIZA M'DONALD. ) 

Make a sponge at night as for any other bread ; in 
the morning sift enough flour to make two small 
loaves ; add half a cupful of molasses and the same 
of brown sugar, and a little lard ; work well ; put into 
pans to lighten. 

French Brown Bread. 

Half a teacupful molasses, 
One pint Graham flour, 
One pint corn meal, 
One pint hop yeast sponge. 

Add sweet milk to make a stiff batter, like rnush. 
Let it stand till light. Bake slowly. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

( MBS. MACKENZIE.) 

Two teacupsful and a half sweet milk, 
One teacupful sour milk. 
Three teacupsful corn meal, 
Two-thirds of teacupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teacupful flour, 
A little salt. 



128 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Steam three hours ; then put into the oven ten min- 
utes to form a crust. Eat it fresh and cut it in the 
pan, it is apt to crumble. Grease the pan well before 
putting it in to steam. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One quart Graham flour, 

One tablespoonful molasses, 

One tablespoonful lard, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One tea spoonful soda, 

Milk to make a tolerable stiff batter, 

A little salt. 

English Tea Cakes. 

( MISS SNAPE. ) 

Half pint sweet milk, 

Half pound butter, (melted in the milk,) 

Two tablespoonsful of sugar, 

One pint of sponge of potato yeast, 

Four eggs, 

Flour sufficient to make it into soft dough 



Boiled Brown Bread. 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

Four teacupsful corn meal, 
Two teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful molasses, 
Four teacupsful sour milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 129 

One teaspoonf ill soda, 

A little salt. 

Boil four hours in a tight covered tin bucket in 
water kept at a boiling rate. When done, the 
bucket can be set in a hot oven for ten minutes. 
Grease the bucket well. 



French Holls. 

One pint flour, and make of it a thick batter with 
warm water; to this add: 

One well beaten egg, 

One tablespoonful lard, (or butter,) 

A little salt, 

One teaspoonful white sugar, dissolved in a 

teacupful potato yeast. 

Make this when risen into a dough by adding more 
flour ; let this rise again and make into rolls ; let it 
rise in the pans, and then bake. 



English Buns. 

( MISS SNAPE. ) 

One quart potato sponge, 

One pint new milk, 

Half cup white sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

A little salt. 

Flour enough to make a dough, (not so stiff as com- 
mon dough;) cut out large, after they are light; let 
them rise in the pan ; wet with sugar and milk before 
taking out of oven. 



130 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Breakfast Biscuit. 

Sift one quart flour into a pan, and make a hole in 
the middle ; pour in not quite a pint of hot milk into 
which a tablespoonful of butter has been dissolved; 
stir this into the flour gradually, and when lukewarm 
add one well beaten egg, two-thirds of a cupful of 
good potato yeast, into which a teaspoonful of sugar 
and a little salt has been dissolved. 



Sally Lunn without Yeast. 

One pint of flour, 

One egg, 

One tablespoonful melted butter, 

One teacupful of sugar, 

One teacupful of sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful of soda, 

Two teaspoonsful of cream tartar. 
Beat the butter, egg, and sugar, well together ; add 
a little salt ; then put in flour and milk till all is in ; bake 
in tins in a quick oven; split open and butter each 
side y and lay one piece on the other. 



French Tea Biscuit. 

( MRS. M. SIMPSON. ) 

Take bread dough, about as much as would make a 
moderate sized loaf; a lump of butter, or lard, as large 
as an egg, two eggs, and a tablespoonful of sugar; 
mix well, and let rise. About an hour before tea, roll 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 131 

and cut an inch thick with a biscuit cutter ; then 
spread the top with butter and fold double; let them 
rise the hour, and when light, bake twenty minutes. 



Husk. 

( MRS. EVA CRAVEN. ) 

Melt half a pound of butter and mix it well with 
two-thirds of a pint of milk, flour enough to make a 
stiif batter ; add three or four tablespoonsful of good 
yeast, and set in a warm place to rise ; when light, 
beat two eggs with half a pound of powdered white 
sugar ; work into the batter with the hand ; add a little 
salt, (unless the butter is very salty,) and a teaspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, and flour enough to make a 
stiff dough. Let it lighten thoroughly, make out with 
the hand, and when light, have ready one yelk of an 
egg, a little sugar and milk, well beaten ; as you take 
them out of the oven wet the top with it. 



Corn Bread. 

One pint well cooked rice, 

One pint corn meal, 

One ounce butter, 

One pint milk, 

Two eggs, beaten light. 

Then add the milk and melted butter; beat the rice 
till smooth ; add the egg and milk, and lastly add the 
corn meal; beat all well together until light, and bake 
in shallow pans. 



132 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Raised Muffins. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in one pint of milk, 
two eggs, half a gill of yeast; flour to make a thick 
batter. 



Johnny Cake. 

Two teacupsful Indian meal, 
Half a teacupful flour, 
Two teacupsful sweet milk, 
One tablespoonful molasses, 
One teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in a hot oven. "Will be light. 



Spanish Buns. 

Half a pint of rich milk and half a pound of butter ; 
let the butter warm in the milk, but not melt to oil; 
stir it through the milk, and set it away to cool. 
Beat four eggs well, and add to this milk, with half a 
pound of flour; stir in half a nutmeg, and two wine- 
glassesful of good, fresh yeast; stir all well, and add 
very gradually half a pound of white sugar. If this 
is not put in by degrees, the buns will be heavy ; add, 
also, by degrees, another quarter of a pound of flour, 
making three-fourths of a pound in all. Butter a 
pan, put in the buns, and set them in a warm place to 
rise. The time required for rising will depend a good 
deal on the quality of the yeast. They can be made 
out with the hand, or cut with a rather large cutter. 
When they are light and covered with bubbles, put in 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 133 

a moderate oven and bake. Just before taking out of 
the oven, take a small, soft brush, or piece of muslin, 
and rub them over with a little egg and milk, with a 
little sugar, which will give them a nice gloss. If 
made according to directions, they are very nice. 



Light Cakes. 

To three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, add one- 
half pint of lukewarm milk, mix in three spoonsful of 
light yeast, cover it over, and set it by the fire for half 
an hour to rise Work in the paste four ounces of 
sugar, and the same quantity of butter; make into tea 
cakes with as little flour as possible, and bake them in 
a quick oven. 

Hominy Muffins. 

Having washed a pint of small hominy through two 
or three waters, pour boiling water on it, cover and let 
it soak for several hours. Then put it into a thick 
saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and let it 
boil until soft enough to mash ; drain it, and mix it 
well with a pint of white corn meal or wheat flour, a 
little salt, and a pint and one-half of milk in which 
two tablespoonsful of butter have been melted. 
When the butter is nearly cold add four tablespoons- 
ful of yeast, cover it, and set it in a warm place, until 
very light, with the surface covered with bubbles. 
Butter some muffin rings, set them on a hot griddle, 
pour into each a portion of the mixture and bake them 



134 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

brown on both sides. Send them to table accordingly 
as they are done, pull them open with yonr fingers and 
butter them quickly. 

Tomato Toast. 

This is a nice breakfast dish; prepare the tomatoes, 
and stew them as directed. Toast a slice of light bread 
for each member of the family, and spread the stewed 
tomatoes evenly on each slice. If any is left, pour it 
over the whole; serve immediately. 



Little Milk Cake for Breakfast. 

Place on a table or slab 

One pound of flour, 

Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

Two teaspoonsful of sugar, 

Three teaspoonsful of fresh yeast, 

Two ounces of butter, 

One egg. 

Have some new milk, pour in a gill, mix all to- 
gether, adding more milk to form a nice dough ; then 
put some flour in a cloth, put the dough in, and lay it 
in a warm place; let it rise for about two hours, cut it 
in pieces the size of eggs, roll them even, and mark 
the top with a sharp knife ; egg over and bake quick ; 
serve hot or cold. 



England Pancakes. 

Mix a pint of milk, five spoonsful of fine flour, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 135 

seven yelks and four whites of eggs, and a very little 
salt; fry them very thin' in fresh butter, and between 
each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight 
at once. 



Fritters. 

Make any plain batter as for pancakes; put 
pared apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, 
and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or 
sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable 
change, Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may 
be made into fritters. 

Spanish Fritters. 

Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as 
thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in 
some cream or milk, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinna- 
mon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice 
brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. 



Corn Oysters. 

One pint grated sweet corn, 
Half a cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful salt, 
Half a teaspoonful black pepper,* 
Two-thirds of a cupful of flour, 
One egg. 
Beat up and fry like griddle cakes. 



136 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Potato Fritters. 

Boil two large potatoes, scrape them tine; beat four 
yelks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above 
one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a 
squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this bat- 
ter half an hour at least; will be extremely light. 



French Toast. 

One loaf of stale bakers' break ; take off the crust ; 
cut in slices ; one pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt. 
Have ready a hot griddle, well buttered ; then dip the 
bread in the custard and fry immediately on the 
griddle. To be eaten with a rich sauce. 

German Waffles. 

Warm a quart of milk, cut up and soften in it one- 
quarter pound of butter. Beat eight eggs, and stir in 
with one-half pound of sifted flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of good, strong yeast ; set it in a warm place to 
rise. When well risen, it is time to bake in greased 
waffle irons. 



Yankee Waffles. 

One quart milk,* 

Six eggs, 

One-quarter pound butter, 

A large gill of yeast, 3 

Salt. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 137 

Flour, to make a batter as thick as for griddle cakes. 
Bake in waffle irons, as long again as you would need 
to bake them on a griddle. 



Rye Drop Cakes. 

One pint sour milk or buttermilk, 

Three eggs, 

One scant teaspoonful soda, 

A little salt. 

Meal to make a batter that will spread a little, but 
not run. Drop with a spoon into round tins, and bake 
fifteen minutes. 



Flour Griddle Cakes. 

Four eggs, 

One quart milk, 

A little salt, 

One tablespoonful of butter, 

One gill yeast. 

Flour to make a batter as thick as for buckwheat 
cakes. Raise over night, and if sour, add a little soda 
in the morning. 

Graham Gems. 

These must be baked in iron pans, each little pan 
partitioned by itself, as they will not rise if baked' in a 
mass. Remove the cream from sweet milk, and for a 
sufficient quantity for two pans, add one egg and salt ; 
stir in the flour slowly until somewhat thicker than 
13 



138 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

pancake batter ; beat thoroughly, as it will add to their 
lightness ; have the oven very hot, as they must bake 
in fifteen or twenty minutes, or they will not be light; 
place the pans on the stove, and when hot, butter, and 
with the spoon, drop each little pan full ; place im- 
mediately in the oven. Carry to table hot. Cold 
gems steamed or warmed are nearly as good as when 
fresh. They should be on every table, for even 
dyspeptics can eat them with impunity. 



Potato Fritters. 

Three eggs, 
One quart of milk, 
A little flour and salt. 

Thicken with mashed potatoes. Drop in table- 
spoonsful into boiling hot lard, and fry a light brown. 



Fried Bread. 

Take cold light bread, (baker's bread is best,) cut it 
in slices about an inch thick, pour a little sweet milk 
over each piece, to soften it; do' this just as you are 
ready to fry the bread, or it will be too soft if it soaks in 
the milk; have a batter made of one egg, a little milk 
and flour, salt, and a small quantity of baking powder ; 
beat this till light ; it should be about the consistency 
of thick cream. Have a frying pan with hot lard in 
it, and dip each piece of the bread into the batter, 
and cover both sides with it, and then fry it quickly ; 
be careful not to have the bread too wet with the milk 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 1.39 

or it will break. Each piece should go the table 
whole. It is a splendid breakfast dish. 



Beat Biscuit. 

Two quarts of flour, 
Half pint lard, (well rubbed together,) 
One pint of cold water, 
One tablespoonful of salt. 

Mix well, knead, and beat with a rolling pin till 
smooth and light. 

Kentucky Yeast for French Rolls. 

Boil six large potatoes ; mash them fine in the water 
in which they were boiled ; add a small teacupful of 
sugar, a teacupful of yeast, let it rise in a moderately 
warm place. Take a quart of flour, a lump of lard 
the size of a hen's egg, one teacupful of the above 
yeast; mix with water; make into rolls; let them rise 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Kentucky Buttermilk Yeast. 

Boil a quart of buttermilk, throw in a teaspoonful 
salt ; take from the fire and let it cool ; stir in a suf- 
ficient quantity of flour to make the consistency of 
common yeast, put in a half teacupful of yeast; let it 
rise in a moderately warm place. Take a quart of 
flour, a piece of butter or lard the size of a hen's egg; 
mix it entirely with the yeast, work well ; set it to rise, 
work over; make into rolls; rise and bake. 



140 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Boiled Bread. 

Four cupsful of sour milk or cold water, 
One cupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Four cupsful of Indian meal, 
Two cupsful of flour, 
One teaspoonful salt. 
Steam four hours. 



Graham Flour Cakes. 

One cupful sweet milk, 
Two eggs, beaten light, 
A small lump of butter, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two tablespoon sf ill molasses, 
A little salt, 
Graham flour. 

Mix well and soft enough to drop into greased 
muffin pans. 



Jffush Muffins. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Four tablespoonsful mush, 

One tablespoonful lard or butter, 

A little salt, 

One quart milk, 

Six eggs, beaten seperately, the whites very 

light, and added last. 

Flour to make the consistency of pound cake. 
Bake in muffin pans quickly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 141 

Brown Bread. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Scald one teacupful corn meal ; when cold, stir in 
one cupful molasses, one pint yeast; stiffen with un- 
bolted flour ; mix it soft, it will look rough ; it should 
not be kneaded, but mixed as soft as possible, and 
when put in the pan to rise, smooth it over with the 
hand. Let it rise, and bake slowly. 



Milk Biscuit. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Two pounds flour, 

A quarter of a pound lard, 

One teaspoonful salt, 

One pint milk, 

One teacupful yeast. 

Put salt into the flour, then rub in the lard ; add the 
milk and yeast, mixing well with a spoon as the dough 
is soft. Set it to rise at 10 o'clock in the morning; at 
3 p. m. stir well with a spoon ; at 5 p. m. roll them out 
with just sufficient flour to prevent sticking to the 
board; cut, put them in pans to rise. Bake twenty 
minutes. 



Sally Lunn. 



Seven cupsful flour, 
Three eggs, 
One pint milk, 



142 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half cupful butter, 

One cupful yeast. 

Mix well, and set to rise for supper; roll thin, put 
in pie pans ; when done split them open and butter 
each half, laying one upon the other. 



Cheap Waffles. 

Two pints flour, 
Two pints sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful lard, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teacupful butter milk, 
One teacupful mush. 
Salt to the taste ; have irons hot, and bake quickly. 



Corn Bread. 

One quart of corn meal ; pour boiling water over it, 
just enough to wet it through, beat it well; then beat 
three eggs separately, and add to the meal, when cool, 
a little salt, and a tablespoonful of lard ; grease a pan 
well, and put the dough in large spoonsful an inch 
apart. 

Good Corn Bread. 

One quart corn meal, 
One pint sour milk, 
Three eggs, 

One small teaspoonful of soda. 
Take a part of the meal, and enough milk to wet 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 143 

the meal ; then put in the yelks of the eggs and beat 
till light; add the rest of the milk and meal alter- 
nately; dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of boiling 
water, and stir in; add salt, and a tablespoonful of 
melted lard, have it hot, and stir in briskly; grease 
your pan, and have it hot before pouring in the meal. 



Cream Pancakes. 

Mix the yelks of two eggs with half a pint of good 
cream and a very little sugar, flour enough to make a 
thin batter; beat the eggs till very light; add a little 
cream ; then flour till free from lumps, and beat to a 
smooth paste ; add 'sugar, and the rest of the cream ; 
have your griddles well-greased and hot; fry the cakes 
as thin as possible. Send to the table hot. 






Quire of Paper Pancakes. 

Beat sixteen eggs till very light; one quart sweet 
milk ; take a half pound sifted flour, a little sugar, and 
half a pound melted butter, half a grated nutmeg, and 
two gills of wine ; add a little of the milk to the eggs ; 
then the flour, till all is in ; beat till free from lumps, 
and perfectly smooth and very light; then add nutmeg, 
wine, butter, and the rest of the milk, a teaspoonful of 
salt. Have a long-handled frying pan; grease well, 
have it hot ; put in but little batter, let it run all over 
the pan and very thin ; they must be cooked very 
lightly. Some do not turn them; if turned, shake the 
pan three or four times and tip it upward, and if 



144 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

expert, the cake will turn over. Lay one on the other 
as they are cooked. Eat hot. 



Crackers. 

One cupful and a half of butter, 
Two cupsful and a half of sugar. 
Four eggs, 

Three tablespoonsful rose water, 
One tablespoonful cinnamon. 
Roll thin, and bake. 

Corn Cake. 

Three cupsful of meal, 
Half cupful of flour. 

Mix with sweet milk and water; let it stand all 
night, in the morning add 

One teaspoonful of soda, 
One tablespoonful of sugar, 
One tablespoonful melted butter, 
A little salt. 



^Beaten Biscuit. 

To make good beaten biscuits, the proportions are 
Two quarts of flour, 
One tablespoon oval-full of lard, 
A good spoonful of salt. 

Mix them as dry as possible, just using water 
enough to make a hard dough ; then work them well, 
and beat them with a rolling pin ; work them well, 
beat again, make in biscuits, and bake slowly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 145 



French Molls. 

Warm a pint of new milk with two tablespoonsful 
butter, a little salt; when cool, add one pound of flour, 
one egg, well-beaten, one tablespoonful yeast; beat all 
well together ; let it rise ; when very light, make in 
rolls and bake. 



Brown Bread. 

Three cupsful corn meal, 
Three cupsful rye flour, 
One cupful wheat flour, 
Two cupsful molasses, 
Three cupsful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
A little salt. Bake. 

Muffins. 

One quart of flour, 
Half teacupful of potato yeast, 
Two eggs, 

One teaspoonful of salt, 
One pint and a half of lukewarm milk, 
Two tablespoonsful melted butter. 
Let it rise, and when very light, bake. 



Corn Bread. 

One pint sour milk, 
One pint corn meal, 
One pint white flour, 



14:6 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Two teaspoonsful of soda, 
One teacupful of sugar, (brown,) 
One teaspoonful salt. 
Bake one hour. 



Sally Limn. 

One quart of milk, 
Half teaspoonful of soda, 
Three eggs, 
One teacupful sugar, 
One tablespoonful butter, 
Half cupful of yeast. 
Make into a stiff batter, and bake in pie pans. 



Cracked Wheat for Breakfast. 

Get your wheat at the mill, that which is cleaned 
for grinding; unscrew your coffee mill, so that it will 
grind coarse, and grind a little of the wheat first to 
clear out the mill; then grind one or two mills full, as 
may be needed; put it in a saucepan, and set that in 
another containing boiling water; sweeten it and grate 
in nutmeg; let it cook as long as it would take rice to 
cook. When done, dish it up and eat with cream. 
Do not have it too stiff, but stiff enough to dish up 
well. This is an elegant breakfast dish, and very 
nourishing. 

JMTush. 

Sift your meal, and wet up as much as you wish to 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 147 

make into mush with cold water, and beat it well to 
break the lumps ; make it the consistency of a thick 
batter ; grease a tin bucket well, put this in it, and set 
it in a pot of boiling water, and let it cook three or 
four hours. This is the finest way to make mush, all 
the raw meal taste is entirely destroyed, and will pour 
out smooth and not adhere io the bucket. When the 
mush is to be used for breakfast, cut it in thin slices 
and fry in hot lard; never put it in till the lard is 
smoking hot, or it will absorb the grease and be unfit 
to use. 



Rice. 

Wash your rice well in two or three waters, put it 
into a pan and add a little water to it ; set it in a 
steamer over a pot of boiling water, and let it cook till 
done; as the water cooks out of the rice, add a little at 
a time of boiling water. There is no way so nice to 
cook rice. 



PASTRY 



Very Rich Crust for Tarts. 

Eight ounces flour, 

Six ounces butter, 

One dessertspoonful pounded sugar, 

One to two spoonsful water. 

Break lightly, with the least possible handling, six 
ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour; add a 
dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, and two or three of 
water; roll the paste for several minutes, to blend the 
ingredients well, folding it together like puff crust, and 
touch it as little as possible : 



Pie Crust. 

In making pie crust or paste, care should be taken 
not to work or knead the crust at all ; it should be 
mixed quickly, and with as little handling as possible. 

FAMILY PIE CRUST. 

Such as most persons like for common use, a good 
proportion is 

Half a pound of lard, 
One pound of flour, 
A spoonful of salt. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 149 

Mix with cold water. This makes a very nice crust. 
If it is needed to be any & richer, rolFit out quite thin, 
or as thin as you would to put in a pie plate, and rub 
the crust all over with butter, and then dredge on a 
little flour and roll it all up ; take a knife and cut it 
into^pieces, and roll out for pies. 



Puff Paste 

Is made in the same manner, only using butter instead 
of lard, and rolling out and spreading with butter in 
the same manner as the above. This makes it leafy 
and more light than common crust. 



Apple Pies. 

It takes the best 'cooking apples to make good pies: 
these that are tart and will cook well. Stew or steam 
them till done, adding sugar and flour, with nutmeg or 
lemon. Make the pastry to suit the taste, either rich 
or plain; roll thin, put in your apples; put on another 
crust, and bake in a rather quick a oven. 



French Pastry. 

(MRS. DR. JOEL PRICE, KY.) 

One teacupful of butter, 
Two teacupsful of white sugar, 
Three teacupsful of flour, 
Four eggs beaten separately, 
Half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half a 
teacupful of sour cream or buttermilk. 



150 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Bake in jelly cake pans. Put one cake on a pie 
plate and spread raspberry or strawberry preserves 
upon it, then a layer of meringue on the top ; set it in 
the stove to lightly brown; continue in the same way 
till you have it is large as you wish, finishing the top 
with the preserves and meringue. 

Belleflower Apple Pie. 

Make a nice crust; put it in your pie plate; peel 
nice belleflower apples, slice them the round way of 
the apple, take out the core, take the slices and lay 
them in your crust; put sugar, nutmeg, and bite of 
butter; put two or three layers of apples, with sugar 
and butter over each ; one crust. Bake slowly. 

French Apple Pies. 

Roll a crust as for other pies ; put your apples on 
one half of the crust, and turn the other half over, 
pressing the edges together so that the fruit will not 
escape ; take a knife or fork and make a few holes in 
the top ; fry in hot lard. Do not make them too large. 



Pumpkin Pies. 

The pumpkin should be cooked slowly, (of course 
the rind should be cut oif and the seeds scraped out,) 
then put in a kettle over a gentle fire until the pump- 
kin is thoroughly cooked; it should be taken from the 
fire and cooled, then run through a wire sieve; when 
it is all rubbed through, add milk till it is a little 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 151 

thicker than batter; to every quart add four or six 
eggs, if eggs are plenty, six; beat the eggs well with 
the sugar before it is stirred in the pumpkin and milk ; 
grate in nutmeg, put allspice and ground ginger; line 
your pie plates, and fill them with the pumpkin mix- 
ture. One crust. 

Mince Meat. 

( MBS. DK. PRICE, KY. ) 

Six pounds meat, well boiled and beaten in a 

mortar, 

Six pounds beef suet, chopped fine, 
Two pounds raisins, 
Two pounds currants, 
One pound of citron, 
Half dozen oranges, 

Half dozen lemons, (grate the peel of each, or 
chop it, use pulp and juice, sweeten to the 
taste,) 

One peck of apples, chopped fine, (can use pre- 
served fruits if it suits the taste,) 
Three quarts of whisky. 

Mix all well together. Put into stone jars, tie or 
cork tight, and use as you desire for pies, adding a 
little water when you go to make the pies. Make a 
rich pastry and roll thin ; spread your mince meat 
nicely in the crust before putting on the top crust. If 
necessary, when you take out of the jar for pies, be- 
fore pouring into the crusts, add a little whisky, and 
sweeten the water. Add sugar to the taste, two 



152 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



grated nutmegs, powdered allspice, a good deal of cin- 
namon and ground cloves. These must be used ac- 
cording to taste and judgment. 

Dried Peach Pies. 

These can be made as either the baked or fried 
apple pies. The peaches should be well cooked, 
sweetened while cooking, and flavored to suit the taste, 
and should be worked well with the hand. These are 
delicious fried. 



Pie Crust. 

In making pies, frequently there is a portion of the 
crust left over, in such cases work in all the flour pos- 
sible, beat them well, roll and make into crackers. 



Cranberry Pie. 

Take the choicest cultivated cranberries, wash them 
clean, remove all imperfect ones, select the largest. 
Line jour pie plate with a rich puff paste, take the 
cranberries, and with a sharp knife split each one, and 
lay them carefully in your crust, sprinkle plenty of 
white sugar over them, put on another crust, and bake 
slowly. This makes the nicest cranberry pie I have 
ever eaten. 



Pie Plant Pie, or Short Cake. 

"Wash your pie plant, remove the skin, and cut 
them up in small pieces ; put them in a pan, and set 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 153 

the pan in a steamer over a pot of boiling water; 
cover, and in a short time it will be well cooked ; let 
it get nearly done before you add the sugar. The 
nicest way I have ever made the pie plant, is to make 
a rich puff paste, roll it out as thick as for a pie ; put 
it into a long tin baking pan ; then with the hand rub 
butter all over the crust, then a very little flour on 
that ; roll out another piece just the same size, and put 
it on top of the crust in the pan. Bake this in time to 
have it hot for dinner. Have your pie plant ready 
steamed and sweetened, with a nice lump of butter 
stirred into it ; when the crust is baked, take a knife 
and lift off the upper crust, and spread on your pie 
plant, then put on your upper crust. By buttering 
the first crust you put in the pan, the top comes off 
without cutting or splitting it with a knife, as a knife 
put into hot crust or bread of any kind always makes 
it clammy. Try this way, and I venture you will never 
make pie plant pie any other way. In this way the 
fruit is not in the crust long enough to moisten or 
make it soggy. 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Is made in the same manner, with the exception that 
the strawberries are not cooked. 



Cocoanut IPie. 

Take a large, nice cocoanut, break off the outer 
shell, peel off the brown skin, wash it, dry it, and 
grate. Take 
-14 



154 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Six eggs, 

One quart sweet milk, 

One-quarter of a pound melted butter, 

Sugar to the taste. 

Beat eggs and sugar well together, then add melted 
butter, then cocoanut and milk; stir well, bake in pie 
plates with one crust. 

Soda Cracker iPie. 

Take four soda crackers, put them side by side in a 
plate and pour boiling water over them, and let them 
remain till they are quite soft. Make a nice crust, 
line pie pan, and then pour off the water trom the crackers 
?nd slip them gently into the crust; trim off the 
corners after they are in the crust, to make them 
round; then have a bowl and pour a half cupful of 
water and a large cupful of white or brown sugar, and 
one teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; stir all together, and 
pour over the crackers ; put on an upper crust. Bake 
slowly. In the spring, when apples are scarce, this 
comes very near an apple pie. 

Cream Pies. 

Scald a quart of sweet cream; beat four or five 
eggs light, then stir them into the scalding cream ; add 
a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of the extract of 
lemon or peach water, and half a nutmeg grated, if 
liked ; sweeten to the taste, (about two tablespoonsfu! 
of sugar is enough ;) have flat pie dishes with 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 155 



perpendicular sides ; grease them well ; line with pie 
paste rolled thin; set them in quick oven for ten min- 
tes, then put in the cream nearly to fill them, and 
bake. 



Cream Pies. 

(MRS. DAVIS, CARROLLTON.) 

One cupful of butter, 

Two cupsful of white sugar, 

Two cupsful of corn starch, 

Two cupsful of flour, 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Two teaspoonsful soda, in 

One cupful sour milk, or soda and cream tartar 

with sweet milk. 

Bake in cakes an inch in thickness, allowing two 
cakes for each pie, with custard between them, made 
as follows: 

Yelks of eight eggs, 

Twelve tablespoonsful of white sugar, 

Six tablespoonsful of flour, 

One quart of sweet milk, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Golden Pie, (A Splendid Pie.) 

(MRS. BROADWELL ) 

Take one lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the 
juice in a bowl, to which add 
One teacupful of sugar, 
One teacupful new milk, 



156 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One tablespoonful corn starch, 
The yelks of three eggs, well beaten. 
Pour into a nice paste, and bake slowly. When 
done, beat the whites of the eggs with a little sugar, 
and spread over the top, and return to the oven to 
slightly brown. 

Cream Pie. 

Half pound butter, 
Four eggs, 

Sugar, salt, and nutmeg to the taste, 
Two tablespoon sful arrowroot. 

Then pour on it a quart of boiling milk ; stir all to- 
gether ; put in one crust. 

Transparent Pie. 

The yelks of three eggs, (this makes one pie,) 
Three tablespoonsful white sugar, 
One tablespoon fal butter. 
Beat till very light. Only one crust. 



Delicate Pie. 

( MRS. N. W. BKOADWELL. ) 

The grated rind of a lemon and the juice, 
One cupful of powdered sugar, 
The yelks of three eggs, 
Two tablespoonsful of flour, 
Two-thirds of a cupful of water. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 157 

Take the whites of the eggs and three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, beat well together. When the pie is 
done, spread on the whites, and return to the oven to 
brown. 

Cracker Pie* 

(MRS. ABLE.) 
One cupful sugar, 
One cupful molasses, 
Twelve small crackers, well rolled, 
Half cupful hot water, 
Two cupsful hard cider, 
Half pound raisins, 
One teaspoonful cloves, 
Two dessertspoonsful allspice, 
Two dessertspoonsful cinnamon, 
One large tablespoonful of butter, 
A little salt and pepper. 
Bake in two crusts. 



Lemon Pie. 

( MKS. ABLE. ) 

One pint white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 

Four eggs, beaten in one at a time, 
Two tablespoon sful of flour, 
Kind of one large lemon, 
One pint sweet milk, 

(Juice of the lemon squeezed in.) One crust. This 
will make several pies. 



158 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Mince Meat. 

Six pounds of meat boiled and beat in a mortar, 

Six pounds of beef suet, chopped fine, 

Two pounds of raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Half dozen oranges, 

Half dozen lemons, (grate the peel of each, re- 
move the seed, and use the pulp and juice, 
sweeten to the taste,) 

One peck of tart cooking apples, chopped fine , 

One quart cherry preserves, 

One quart damson preserves, 

One quart of quince, 

Three quarts fine whisky. 

Cracker Mince Pies. 

Break four large soda crackers into one and a half 
pints boiling water- 
One cupful and a half of butter, 
Two cupsful and a half of sugar, 
Two cupsful of raisins, cut fine, 
Half a cupful of wine or whisky, 
The juice and rind of one lemon. '^1 

Cloves, allspice and cinnamon to the taste, a few 
chopped apples. This is sufficient for four pies. 



Peach Cobbler. 

Take nice, finely flavored peaches, peel and stone 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 159 

them, sweeten to the taste; put them into a nice bak- 
ing pan, (tin is the best,) put a rich crust on the top 
and bake slowly ; when done, remove the crust into a 
dish that will hold it, and if your peaches are well 
cooked, spread them nicely on the crust, (lay the top 
of the crust on the bottom of the dish.) Eat with 
sweetened cream. 



Gooseberry Pie. 

Stew the berries well, adding sugar and no water, 
as they throw out so much juice. Make a nice, rich 
pastry, and bake, sticking the crust to keep it from 
puffing ; when cold, put in your berries, and have the 
whites of two eggs beaten with sugar and spread on 
the top ; set in the oven to slightly brown. Any fruit 
pie may be made in the same way. No fruit pie 
should be made to stand over night, as the crust be- 
comes soggy and unlit for use. 



Lemon Pie. 

. Make your crust and line your pie plate ; then take 
a teacupful of white or a light brown sugar and 
spread it evenly over the crust; grate off' the rind of 
one lemon, peel off the white skin, and the slice the 
lemon with .a very sharp knife, to have the slices thin ; 
lay them piece by piece over the sugar in the crust; 
then take your dredge box and shake about one table- 
spoonful of flour over it, and then put the grated rind 
of the lemon and about half a teacupful of cold water. 



160 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Put on upper crust and bake slowly. This pie is as 
cheap a pie as can well be made, and if made and 
baked right, there is none better. If cooked too fast 
the juice runs out, and the pie is too dry. Try it. 

Lemon Pie. 

( MKS. BUNN. ) 

The grated rind and the juice of two lemons, 
Half pound white sugar, 
Quarter pound butter, 
Eight eggs, beat the whites separately. 
Lastly add nearly one pint rich cream. Make three 
pies. One crust. 

Potato Pie. 

Scald one quart of milk, grate in four large potatoes 
while the milk is hot; when cold add four eggs well 
beaten, and four ounces of butter; spice and sweeten 
to taste ; lay in paste. Bake half an hour. 



Lemon Pie. 

( MRS. HUNT. ) 

Two eggs, leave out the white of one, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

One lemon, 

Grate the rind and use the juice, and cream enough to 
make it fill the crust, or a small piece of butter and 
milk, if you have no cream; this makes one pie. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 161 



Take the remaining white, beaten stiff, with two table- 
spoonsful white sugar, and when the pie is baked spread 
this over the top smoothly, and return to the oven till 
lightly brown. 

Mush Pie. 

One pound well-cooked mush 

Half a pound butter, 

One pound brown sugar, 

Six eggs, 

The juice of a lemon. 

Beat the butter well into the hot mush; beat the 
sugar and yelks of the eggs well together; then add 
the mush and butter, then the juice and grated rind of 
the lemon; lastly the white of the eggs, which must 
be well-beaten. 



Silver Pie. 

(W. S. HURST. ) 

Peel and grate one large white potato into a deep 
plate, add the juice and grated rind of 

One lemon, 

The white of one egg, well beaten, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

A teacupful of cold water. 

Pour this into a nice under crust. When done 
have ready the well-beaten whites of three eggs, half a 
teacupful of white sugar, a few drops of rose water ; 
put this over the pie and return it to the oven to 



162 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

brown. When ready for the table lay lumps of currant 
jelly on the top ; have it made just before dinner. 



Lemon IPie. 

( Mrs. LEWIS. ) 

Grate the rind of three lemons, take off the thick 
white skin, cut the lemons in very thin slices, take out 
the seed, add 

Three large cupsful of fine white sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Half a cupful of water. 
Two table spoonsful flour. 

Mix well, and make two pies with two crusts ; to be 
eaten warm. 



Mince Pie. 

( MRS. VAN NESS. ) 

Seven pounds meat, 

Ten pounds apples, 

Two pounds suet, 

Two pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Three lemons, 

Brandy and spices to the taste. 

Cream P.ie. 

One teacupful of cream, one teacupful of sugar, two 
tablespoonsful flour rubbed smoothly in a little of the 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 163 

cream, a lump of butter the size of an egg ; one crust, 
and strips of crust across it. 



Golden Pie. 

Take one lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the 
pulp into a bowl, to which add 

One teacupful white sugar, 

One teacupful new milk, 

One tablespoonful corn starch, 

The yelks of three eggs, well-beaten. 
Pour these ingredients into a nice paste crust to 
bake slowly ; beat the whites of three eggs stiff, and 
when the pie is just done, pour it over the pie evenly, 
and return it to the oven to stiffen, not to brown. 



Cream fie. 

Take the yelks of four eggs, beat light with a large 
tablespoonful sifted flour, one pint of cream and a tea- 
cupful of sugar. When baked, add the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, with three tablespoonsful sugar; 
spread over the top after the pie is baked, and return 
to the oven till Lightly brown. 



Egg Mince Pies. 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double 
the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and 
picked one pound, or more, if the eggs are large; the 
peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six 
spoonsful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very 



164: ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

little salt; orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make 
a light paste for them. 

Molasses Pie. 

The yelks of four eggs, beaten very light, 

One large spoonful flour, 

One pint molasses, 

Two tablespoonsful strong vinegar, 

Two tablespoonsful ginger. 

Bake, then add the whites of the eggs, well-beaten, 
with three spoonsful sugar; return to the oven to 
brown. 



Mince Pie. 

( MRS. VAN DUSEN. ) 

Three pounds beef, 

Two pounds suet, 

Six pounds apples, (that will cook well,) 

Three pounds raisins, 

Three pounds currants, 

Three pounds sugar, 

Two pounds citron, 

Three oranges, 

Two quarts brandy, 

Two quarts wine, 

Two quarts cider, 

One ounce rose water, 

One tablespoonful ground ginger. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 165 

Cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace, salt and pep- 
per to the taste. 

Delicate Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, 

One teacnpful white sugar, 

The yelks of three eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful of flour, 

Two-thirds of cupful of water. 
Take the whites of the eggs and three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, and beat to a stiff froth and turn it over 
the pie when it is baked ; set it in oven to brown. 
One crust. 



Cream Pie. 

( MRS. HURST. ) 

For the crust use 

One cupful and a half flour, 

One cupful white sugar, 

Half cupful sweet milk, 

Two eggs, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

One tablespoon ful butter, 

Flavor to snit the taste. 

Bake this in two jelly cake pans, and let it get cold, 
and use one for the upper crust and one for the under 
crust. For the cream for the pies take: 

Half cupful white sugar, 

One-third cupful flour, 



166 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half pint sweet milk, 

One egg. 

Let the milk boil ; beat the eggs and sugar together ; 
take a little milk and wet the flour to a smooth paste, 
and stir into the sugar and egg ; then stir all into the 
milk, and let it boil tolerably thick and spread on to 
one of the crusts previously baked, and then put the 
other crust on. Eaten warm for dinner, or eaten cold 
for supper. 

Lemon Pie. 

( MATE ELLIOTT. ) 

Three Eggs, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

Half cupful milk, \^ 

One cupful sugar, 

One lemon, grate the rind. 

Mix the grated lemon with sugar and butter ; then 
add the yelks, then the milk, then lemon juice, last the 
whites, well-beaten; mix well. This makes two pies. 

Corn Starch Pie. 

(CARRIE HURST.) 
Three eggs, 

Six tablespoonsful white sugar, 
One tablespoonful corn starch. 
One pint sweet milk. 

Bake the crust first; beat the yelks and three table- 
spoonsful white sugar together ; stir in the corn starch ; 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 167 

make custard of the milk, eggs, sugar and corn starch ; 
flavor and pour on the crust ; whip the whites and 
the other three spoonsful of sugar, and spread over 
the pie after it is baked, and return to the oven to 
slightly brown. 

Piecrust Glaze. 

In making pies which have a juicy mixture, the 
juice soaks into the crust, making it soggy and unfit to 
eat; to prevent this, take an egg well-beaten, and wet 
the crust of the pie with it just before putting in the 
fruit. For pies which have an upper crust, wet the 
top with the same before baking. This is also nice 
for biscuit or ginger cakes, and with a little sugar 
added, is very nice for rusk. 



Transparent Pie. 

To one pie take the yelks of three eggs, three table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and a tablespoonful and a half of 
butter; beat well together; flavor to suit the taste. 
Make a rich puff paste and line the pie plate. Only 
one crust is required. 

'Stewart Pie, (Splendid.) 

Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
One-half cupful butter, 
One teacupful cream or new milk, 
Four eggs, beat the yelks light. 



168 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Add the sugar, then your milk and flavoring, then 
the half cupful melted butter; beat the whites to a 
stiff paste; stir in and beat it well. This makes two 
pies. 

Summer Mince Pie. 

Four crackers broken up fine and dissolved in 
water; then mix two eggs, well beaten; add 

One cupful raisins, cut fine, 

One cupful citron, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful vinegar, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful molasses, 

Six apples, cut fine, 

Add cinnamon and brandy to the taste. 
This will make six pies. 



Mince Pies without Meat, 

Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and 
minced; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three 
pounds, likewise minced; to these add of mace and 
cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight 
cloves, in finest powder ; three pounds of the finest 
powder sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of suet, the 
rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a pint of 
cider, the same of brandy, if you like. Mix well, and 
put into a deep pan. Have ready washed and dried 
four pounds of currants, and add as you make the 
pies, with candied fruit. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 169 



Lemon Mince fie. 

Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender 
enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples 
chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of 
currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the 
lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a 
short crust, and fill the patty pans as usual. 



Lemon Pie. 

Three lemons, 

One quart milk, 

One heaping tablespoonful flour, 

One tablespoonful melted butter, 

Four eggs, 

One teacupful sugar. 

Rub your lemon on a grater, then roll till soft, then 
squeeze the juice out. Make a frosting for the top of 
the whites of the eggs and white sugar. This will 
make three pies. 



Lemon Pie. 

Two lemons, 

Two teacupsful sugar, 

One teacupful milk, 

Two tablespoon sful corn starch, 

Yelks of six eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful melted butter. 
Beat the whites of the eggs with six tablespoonsful 
sugar, and pour over after the pie is baked. This 
makes two pies. 
15 



170 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Mince 

Four pounds chopped beef, 

Four pounds chopped suet, 

Four pounds chopped raisins, 

Four pounds chopped currants, 

Seven pounds chopped apples, 

One pound chopped citron, 

Two pounds sugar, 

One ounce nutmeg, 

One quart madeira wine or pint brandy, 

One pint of golden syrup, 

A little salt. 



Apple Custard fie. 



Peel and boil sour apples till soft, and not much water 
left in them, then rub through a colander if necessary. 
Beat two eggs, half a cupful sugar and a large table 
spoonful butter for each pie ; flavor with nutmeg. If 
the apples are very sour, add more sugar. 



Georgetown, Kentucky fie. 

Break five large soda crackers into one and a half 
pints boiling water 

One teacupful and a half butter, 
Two teacupsful and half sugar, 
One teacupful cut raisins, 
Half teacupful wine or whisky, 
The juice and rind of one lemon, 
Spices to the taste. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 171 

One large apple chopped fine will improve the pies. 
This makes four pies. 



Lemon Pie. 

Three eggs, 

One cupful sugar, 

One teaspoonful butter, 

One cupful flour, 

Juice of one lemon, 

Whites of two eggs, 

Two-thirds cupful sugar to make frosting for 

the top. 

When the pie is done, put the frosting on the top, 
and return to the oven to brown. 



Strawberries Stewed for Tarts. 

Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and a teacup- 
ful of water; add a little white of eggs; let it boil, 
and skim it until only a foam rises ; then put in a 
quart of berries free from stems and hulls ; let them 
boil till they look clear and the syrup is quite thick. 
Finish with fine puff paste. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, four eggs, seven tablespoonsful sugar 
mixed with yelks ; grate the rind, and mix juice, rind, 
sugar and yelks together. Beat the whites stiif with 
sugar, and spread over the top. Bake in a good 
crust. No top crust. 



172 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Pie Plant Short Cake. 

Make a short c'ake in the usual way, with sour milk 
or cream and soda, or with sweet milk and soda and 
cream tartar; many prefer this way to the rich pie 
crust short cake ; bake in long pans ; split them open, 
butter and spread your fruit between, or, as many pre- 
fer, have your fruit ready, and serve at the table. 
Any fruit will answer. Always steam fruits of this 
kind, they are much nicer than if they come in con- 
tact with the tire. 

Cheap Lemon Pies. 

Take one large lemon, squeeze out the juice, chop 
the peel very tine ; take 

One teacupful sugar, 

Oneteacupful molasses, 

Three teacupsful water, 

One cupful sifted flour, 

One egg. 

One or two good cooking apples, stewed or grated, 
and sweetened to suit the taste, boil the peel till soft; 
then put in the flour, which must be wetted and rubbed 
smooth; boil till it thickens; then add the juice and 
other ingredients. This will make four medium sized 
pies with two crusts. 

Apple Trifle, (A Supper Dish.} 

Ten good-sized apples, 
The rind of half a lemon, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 173 

Six ounces of pounded sugar, 

Half-pint milk, 

Half-pint cream, 

Two eggs, 

Whipped cream. 

Peel, core, and cut the apples into thin slices, and 
put them into a saucepan with two tablespoonsful of 
water, the sugar, and minced lemon rind. Boil all to- 
gether until quite tender, and pulp the apples through 
a sieve; if they should not be quite sweet enough, 
add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of 
the dish to form a thick layer. Stir together the 
milk, cream, and eggs, with a little sugar, over the 
fire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to 
reach the boiling point. When thick, take it off the 
fire ; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. 
Whip some cream with sugar, lemon peel, etc., the 
same as for other trifles; heap it high over the 
custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be 
garnished as fancy dictates with strips of bright apple 
jelly, slices of citron, etc. 



Cream, Pie. 

Three pints of new milk, 
Eight eggs, 
Half a cupful butter, 
Two tablespoonsful flour, 
One cupful sugar. 

Beat the butter and flour together, arid the sugar 
and eggs. Let the milk get warm by setting it in 



174 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

warm water on the stove ; a small pail is nice to put 
the milk in ; set this in a kettle of boiling water, then 
add the butter and flour, stir a few minutes ; then add 
the sugar and eggs, stir until a little thick ; then flavor 
with vanilla, this is the only kind of flavoring for 
these pies ; remove Irom the fire. Have a crust made 
as follows: 

One teacupful of water, 

One teacupful of lard, 

A little salt. 

Mix this soft enough to roll out for pies ; have but 
one crust. When the pies are baked, have the whites 
beaten stiff with a little white sugar, and spread on 
the top and let it brown lightly. This makes splendid 
pies. 






CAKES. 



General Directions for Cake Making. 



As a general thing there has been more cake 
wasted by carelessness in mixing than from any other 
cause, ^ unless it is the want of patience to beat it 
as it should be. Some have an idea, that to have the 
proper materials and throw them into a pan and give 
them a stir or two, is all that is required. But such is 
not the case. The same rule holds good in most 
cakes. The butter and sugar should always be beaten 
together till they are perfectly light. The whites 
should be beaten perfectly stiff. Your cream tartar 
or baking powder, just as your receipt calls for it, 
should always be mixed well in the flour. Add a 
little flour to the butter and sugar before putting in the 
milk; dissolve the soda in the milk; then add the 
flour and whites alternately. Beat very little after 
the whites are put in the pan, and bake immediately. 
Nice white butter makes the whitest cake. 



176 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

A Fine Icing for Cake. 

Beat up the whites of live eggs to a froth, and put 
to them a pound of double-refined sugar, powdered 
and sifted, and three spoonsful of orange flower 
water or lemon juice. Keep beating it all the time the 
cake is in the oven, and the moment it comes out, ice 
over the top with a spoon. 



Slack Cake. 

( MRS. DR. JOEL PRICED KY. ) 

One pound and a quarter of very light dough, 
made with potato yeast, 

Six eggs, 

Three-quarters of a pound butter, 

One pound sugar, 

Two pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, thoroughly washed and 
slowly dried in a slow oven, 

One pound of citron, cut fine, 

One glass blackberry jelly, 

One tablespoonful cloves, 

One nutmeg, 

Two tablespoonsful cinnamon, 

One teasoonful soda, 

One wine glass of whisky or brandy, 

One glass of madeira wine. 

Work the butter into the dough ; have the eggs and 
sugar well-beaten together, and add to the dough in 
small quantities at a time; flonr the fruit, add it 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 177 

gradually. Cut a paper to fit the bottom of the 
mould, grease it well ; pour the whole into the mould. 
Let it rise one hour, bake three hours. Let it stand 
in the mould after it has been baked for several hours. 

Currant Cake. 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

Four even cupsful of flour, 

One cupful of currants, 

One cupful sweet milk, 

Four eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 



Custard Cake. 

Two cupsful sugar, 

Nine tablespoonsful melted butter, 

Two-thirds of a cupful sweet milk, 

Three cupsful flour, 

Six eggs, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 

White Cake. 

One pound powdered sugar, 
One pound flour, 
Half pound butter, 
Whites of sixteen eggi, 



178 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda, 
Three teaspoon sful cream tartar. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, and stir a 
little flour with it. Beat well. 



Cream Cake. 

Five eggs, 

Three cupsful sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful cream, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Mix the sugar and butter, then add the rest. 

Cold Icing. 

One egg, eight large teaspoonsful of white sugar ; beat 
well and hard ; add tartaric acid to whiten ; flavor to 
the taste. 



lee Cream Cake. 

Two cupsful white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Three cupsful flour, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Whites of eight eggs, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda. 

Beat the butter and sugar together, then the whites 
of the eggs, well-beaten ; stir in the flour, and cream 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 179 

of tartar, well-mixed, and lastly the milk with the soda 
dissolved in it. Butter shallow pans, spread evenly on 
the bottom half an inch thick; bake quickly to a deli- 
cate light brown. 

Receipt for Icing. 

Put three cupsful white sugar in a saucepan with 
one cupful of water, let it boil to a clear, thick syrup ; 
then pour in boiling hot over the whites of three eggs, 
stirring it very hard ; add half teaspoonful of pulver- 
ized citric acid; flavor with vanilla; spread over the 
cake warm. If it gets cold, warm it by steam. 



Soft Ginger Cake. 

( MRS. JUDGE VAN DOERSTON's. ) 

One pint molasses, 
Three eggs, 

One teacupful sour milk, 
Butter the size of an egg. 

One tablespoonful soda stirred into the molasses ; 
flour enough to make a soft dough ; ginger to the taste. 

Doughnuts. 

One pint flour, lump of butter the size of a walnut 
rubbed into it, half cupful sugar, one-third of a tea- 
spoonful soda, one egg, enough buttermilk to make it 
a proper consistency ; make in twists, or roll and cut 
in cakes, and fry in hot lard. 






180 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Citron Cake. 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Half teacupful sweet milk, 

Two teacupsful powdered white sugar, 

Three-quarters of teacupful butter, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One pound best citron. 

Cut the citron in very thin slices, beat whites to a 
stiff froth; beat butter and sugar together; add a 
little flour with cream tartar, well-mixed ; then the 
milk, in which the soda has been well dissolved; then 
add the whites, and last stir in the citron; mix well. 
Bake in long or square baking tins. Such cakes, and 
the gold cake, made with the yelks of eggs, are always 
better baked in shallow pans, and with a little icing on 
the top looks much nicer when cut for the table. 



Cottage Cake. 

One cupful and a half sugar, 

Half cupful butter, 

Two eggs, 

One scant teaspoon soda, dissolved in one cup- 
ful milk, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar rubbed in flour 
enough to make this thick as pound cake. 

Juice and rind of a lemon. 
This is good to be eaten fresh, but will not keep long. 



I 



. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 181 



Delicious Cake. 



Two cupsful white sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful milk, 

Three eggs, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

Scant teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Three cupsful flour. 

Stir butter and sugar together and add the beaten 
yelks of the eggs, then the beaten whites; dissolve 
the soda in the milk, rub cream tartar in the flour, and 
add the last thing. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Make any nice sponge cake; bake it in one or more 
oval pans, as may be needed, (if for an evening com- 
pany, of course one would not be enough;) let it be 
baked a delicate light brown ; when cold, put it into 
any nice platter or large glass dish that will hold it 
nicely. Pour over it madeira wine till it is perfectly 
saturated; have ready blanched almonds, sufficient to 
stick over the top of the cakes. Make a nice, rich, 
boiled custard and pour it around the edges of the 
dishes or dish in which your cake has been placed, re- 
serving enough custard to add to each dish of the 
cake as you serve it up. According to my own taste, 
I think that about three or four whites of eggs to each 
cake, well-beaten, and four tablespoonsful powdered 
sugar beaten in it, and spread over the top, is a 



182 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

great improvement. It can be set in the oven to 
slightly brown before putting the custard around the 
edges. 

Silver Cake. 



Half teacupful butter, 

One cupful and a half sugar, 

Two cupsful and a half flour, 

The whites of eight eggs. 

Dissolve half a teaspoonful soda in one tablespoon- 
ful water, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Beat butter 
and sugar well together. Beat the whites stiff. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
Two teacupsful best sugar house molasses, 
One teacupful butter, 
One teacupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda. 

Work in flour enough to make it stiff, and roll in 
thin cakes. Bake to a nice brown. 



Drop Cakes. 

The yelks, after making a large, or even small 
white cake, make very nice drop cakes. Tak< 
Seven or eight yelks 
Two coffeecupsful brown sugar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 183 

One coffeecupful butter, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 
Flour enough to make them drop nicely in a well- 
greased pan. Beat well together before putting in the 
milk; drop them and give them room to spread. 
They can be baked in the tins that are now made for 
muffins. Flavor to suit the taste. 

Fruit Cake. 

Four eggs, 

One cupful brown sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful cold strong coffee, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One pound citron, 

One pound currants, 

One pound raisins, 

Four cupsful flour. 

Beat butter and sugar well together, then add eggs, 
and beat well before adding coffee, in which the soda 
must be dissolved ; mix cream tartar in flour ; lastly 
mix in the fruit. Try with a straw before taking from 
the stove. 

Spice Cake. 

Three Eggs, 



184 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One cupful of brown sugar, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Half cupful butter, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
One teaspoonful cinnamon, 
One teaspoonful cloves, 
One teaspoonful allspice, 
A little lemon. 

This is to be mixed as other cakes are, sugar and 
butter together, then add the other ingredients. Great 
care should be given to the beating of cake, the more 
it is beaten the better it is, of course. Let the beating 
all be done before the cream tartar and soda are put 
in. It should then be gently stirred, and put in to 
bake immediately. 



Sponge Gingerbread. 

One cupful of sour milk, 

One cupful molasses, 

Half cupful butter, 

Two eggs. 

One tablespoonful ginger. 

Flour to make it as thick as pound cake. Put the 
butter, molasses and ginger together, and make them 
quite warm; then add the milk, flour and yeast 
powder, or baking powder, as it is more generally 
called. 

> j, 
' J 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 185 

G-inger Snaps. 

One cupful molasses, 
Half cupful brown sugar , v 
Half cupful butter, 

Half cupful- warm milk, the butter melted in it, 
Two tablespoonsful baking powder. 
The dough should be stiff, roll out and cut in cakes 



Rolled Jelly Cake. 

Three eggs, 

One china teacupful sugar, 

One china teacupful flour. 

Beat the yelks of the eggs till light, then add the 
sugar, continue beating some time; then add the 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth, then flour, very little at 
the time; bake in along pan well-greased. When 
done, turn out on bread board, then cover the top well 
with jelly, and roll up while warm, and slice as needed. 



Macaroons. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound; whisk 
the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a 
pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste; 
and laying a sheet of wafer paper on a tin, put it on 
in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. 



Tea Cakes. 

Rut) fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine 
16 



186 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sugar, the yelks of two and white of one egg. Roll the 
paste the thickness of a cracker, and cut with a wine 
glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over 
them ; and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. 



Slack Cake. 

Half pound butter, 
Half pound sugar, 
Half pound flour, 
Six eggs, 

One pound and a half raisins. 
One pound and a half currants, 
Half pound citron, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
Half teaspoonful mace, 
Half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
Half teaspoonful cloves, 
Half teaspoonful allspice, 
One teaspoon ful nutmeg, 
One cupful molasses, 
Half gill brandy. 
Bake slowly three hours. This makes three loaves. 



Pudding. 

One cupful milk, 

One cupful molasses, 

Half cupful butter, 

Three and a half cupsful flour. 

One glass brandy, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 187 

One teaspoonful each of all kinds of spice, 
One teaspoonful saleratus. 
Steam three hours. 



Doughnuts. 

One cupful sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Small spoonful butter, 
One cupful and a half milk, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Mix with flour and roll out stiff. Flavor to taste. 



Silver Cake. 

Half cupful butter, 

One cupful and a half sugar, beat well together, 
Whites of eight eggs, beaten to a froth, 
Two and a half cupsful flour. 
Dissolve one-half teaspoonful soda in one table- 
spoonful water, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar. 

For gold cake take the yelks of the eggs and mix 
the same as above. 



Cream Tea Cakes. 

One pound flour, 
Pint sour cream. 
Two-thirds of a cupful" butter. 



188 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in a litttle 

warm water. 

Mix lightly. Flour your hands well and make out 
in small cakes, the size of an egg. Lay close in a but- 
tered pan, and bake in a quick oven. 



Fruit Cake. 

One cupful of butter, 
One cupful sugar, 
One cupful molasses. 
Three cupsful flour, 
Four eggs, 
Half pound currants, 
Half pound raisins, 
Quarter pound citron, 
Quarter teaspoonful saleratus, 
One teaspoonful each of all kinds of spice. 
This cake will keep a year. 



Coeoanut Cake. 

One cupful sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
Three eggs, 

Three tablespoonsful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar mixed in the flour, 
Half teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk, 
Ten teaspoonsful sugar to two eggs. 
One cocoanut, and mix two-thirds of it with 
the frosting and spread over the cake; then add 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 189 

the rest of the cocoanut. Bake the cake as for jelly 
cake. 

Coffee Cake. 

One-third cupful butter, 
One cupful molasses, 
Half cupful brown sugar, 
Half cupful cold strong coffee, 
Two eggs, 

One teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and 
soda. 



Delicate Cake. 

One cupful butter, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

Half cupful sweet milk, 

Three cupsful flour, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Whites of ten eggs. 



Railroad Cake. 

(MRS. w. A. TURKEY.) 

Sixteen eggs, 
One pound sugar, 
One pound flour, 
Half pound butter. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add yelks; then 



190 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

sugar, melted butter, then add flour; stir as little as 
possible. 

Sponge Cake. 

Eleven ounces flour, 
Seventeen ounces sugar, 
Twelve eggs. 
Beat the whites and yelks separately. 



Cocoanut Pound Cake. 

One pound sugar, 
One pound flour, 
Twelve ounces butter, 
Ten eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 

Beat the butter till creamy, add sugar ; then cocoa- 
nut, then flour. 



Sponge Cake. 

Two tumblersful of sugar, 
Two tumblersful of flour, 
Ten eggs, well beaten, 
Add the flour last. 



Chocolate Puffs. 

The whites of two eggs, 

Half pound sugar, 

One ounce and a half chocolate, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 191 

Two tablespoonsful corn starch., with the choco- 
late pulverized. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar ; then 
add chocolate; drop sugar on paper; then drop the 
puffs on, and dust sugar over them. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One cupful butter, 

Two and half cupsful sugar, 

Four cupsful flour, 

One cupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

"Whites of seven eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Three cupsful molasses, 
One cupful sugar, 
Quarter cupful butter, 
Four spoonsful ginger, 
One spoonful cinnamon, 
One spoonful cayenne pepper. 

Jumbles. 

One pound of nice sugar into two pounds of flour; 
beat four eggs with three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, very light, and bake quickly. 



192 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

* 

Fruit Cake. < 

Ten eggs, 

Two tumblersful and a half sugar. 
Three tumblersful flour, 
Three-quarters pound butter, 
Two pounds currants, 
Two pounds raisins, 
Half pound eitron. 
Last, the whites well-beaten. 



White Sponge Cake. 

One cupful and a half sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
The whites of ten eggs. 

White Cake. 

One cupful butter, 

Four cupsful sugar, 

Six cupsful flour, 

Whites of fourteen eggs, beaten to a stiff" froth. 
One teaspoonful soda dissolved in one teacupful of 
sweet milk, and two teaspoonsful of cream tartar 
mixed in flour. Flavor to taste and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

White Mountain Cake. 

The whites of six eggs, 
Two-thirds cupful butter, 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 193 

One cupful sweet milk, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
Three cupsful flour, 
One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar or baking powder. 
Make a thin icing, (and stir in grated cocoanut, if 
you prefer it,) and put on the cake as in jelly cake. 

Almond Icing for Wedding Cake. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat a pound of blanched almonds very fine in a mor- 
tar with rose water, (a few only at a time,) mix them 
with eggs lightly together; put in by degrees one 
pound of powdered lt>af sugar; spread the icing 
smoothly on the cake. It must be well-beaten. 



fork Cake. 

One pound of pickled pork chopped as fine as 

can be, 

Two pounds currants, 
Two pounds raisins, 
One pound citron, 

Two teacupsful brown sugar, 
One teacupful molasses, 
One tablespoonful cJoves, 
One teaspoonful cinnamon, 
One tablespoonful allspice, 
One nutmeg, 



194: ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



One tablespoonful soda, 
One wine glassful brandy or whisky, 
Four pints of flour; put three in the cake, and put 
the other on the fruit, and rub it over to prevent set- 
tling at the bottom. Mix as for other cake. Bake three 
hours. Pour. over the pork after it is chopped one 
pint of boiling water, and when cool put in the other 
ingredients into the water and pork. This makes a 
splendid large cake that will keep well. No butter or 
eggs. Try it. 

Fruit Cake. 

Fourteen eggs, 
One pound and a half butter, 
One pound and a half brown sugar, 
One pound and a half flour, 
Three pounds raisins, 
Three pounds currants, 
One pound citron, 
One coffeecupful syrup, 
One wine glassful brandy, 
One tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, 
cloves and nutmeg. 



Almond Macaroons. 

Three-quarters pound sweet almonds, one-quarter 
pound bittter almonds ; blanch and pound to a smooth 
paste, in a mortar, a few at a time. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of six eggs, and beat into these, by 
degrees, one pound white sugar ; mix in the almonds 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 195 

gradually, stir well, and form into small ca^es and 
bake on buttered paper, being careful not to let the 
cakes touch other. Bake in a quick oven to a light 
brown. 

Feather Cake. 

One teacupful sugar, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

Two teacupsful flour, 

One tablespoonful butter, 

One egg, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Flavor with nutmeg. 



Cup Cake. 

One teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
Four eggs, 

One teacupful sour milk, 
One small teaspoonful soda. 

White Cake. 

The whites of six eggs, 
Two-thirds teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful white sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sweet milk. 



196 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda. 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Flavor with peach water. 

Golden cake is made with the yelks, and in the same 
proportion as the above white cake. 

Sponge Cake. 

One teacupful sugar, 

One teacupful flour, 

Three eggs, 
'" Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

One tablespoonful warm water. 
Bake quickly. 



Jumbles. 

One pound butter, 
Two pounds flour, 
Two pounds sugar, 
Eight eggs, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One cupful sour milk. 

Hose Cake. 

(MRS. DR. GRISSUM'S, KY. 
One pound flour, 
One pound white sugar, 
Three-quarters pound butter, 
The whites of fourteen eggs, well beaten. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 197 



Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then stir in 
the whites and flour alternately until thoroughly 
mixed. Take one teaspoonful cochineal in a table- 
spoonful of cold water, and beat till dissolved ; strain it 
in a half teacupful of the batter, cover the bottom of 
the pan with the white ; then mix in as in the marble 
cake. Flavor with rose. The cochineal must be pre- 
pared thus: 

One-third cochineal, 

One-third alum, 

One-third cream tartar. 

They must be pulverized well together at the drug 
store. 



Cocoanut Jumbles. 

Two eggs, 

Three teacupsful white sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
One teacupful sour cream, 
One scant teaspoonful soda, 
Five teacupsful flour, 
One large cocoanut grated. 

Roll in sugar and drop in the pan. Add the nut 
last. 



Mountain Cake. 

(MBS. BUNN. ) 

Three teacupsful white sugar beaten up with five 
eggs and a scant cupful of butter, 



198 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Four and half cupsful flour, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Put ordinary icing between it. It is nice to have 
every alternate layer of nice fair jelly. 



Lady Cake. 

(MRS. DR. RYAN.) 



Whites of eight eggs, ' 
Two teacupsful white sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
Four teacupsful flour, 
Half teacupful sweet milk, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Flavor with peach and rose. 



- Fruit Cake. 

( MRS. W. 8. HURST. ) 

Ten eggs, 

One pound brown sugar, 

One pound flour, 

Three pounds raisins, 

Two pounds currants, 

One pound citron, 

Cloves, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, wine and 

brandy to the taste, 
One large cupful molasses. 
Beat well, as in all cakes. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 199 

Almond Cake. 

Whites of seventeen eggs, 
Three-quarters of a pound butter, 
One pound white sugar, 
One pound flour. 
Beat the whites stiff, add the sugar and butter to- 

C Jl ier and beat well, add flour and whites alternately, 
extract of almond or blanched almonds, and rub in 
rose water. 



Pound Cake. 

( One pound sugar, 
One pound flour, 

Three-quarters of a pound butter. 
Beat the butter and sugar well together, add the 
yelks of ten eggs ; beat the whites stiff, and add with 
the flour. Bake one hour. 



, 



White Cake. 



( MKS. WM. 8. HURST. ) 

Whites of ten eggs, 

Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 

One coffeecupful butter, 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 



200 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 





Cup Cake. 

Five eggs, | 

Three teacupsful sugar/ 
One teacupful butter, 
Five teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sour milk, 
One small teaspoonful soda. 

This is very nice made with currants, and it makes a^ 
excellent jelly cake. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs, 

One pound white sugar, 

Half pound flour, 

Beat the yelks and the sugar to a cream, the whites 
stiff, and add alternate with the flour. Flavor with 
lemon. Bake quickly; add a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of tartaric acid. 

Fruit Cake. 

(MRS. WM. s. HURST.) 

Use the ten yelks left from the above white cake 
Two coffeecupsful brown sugar, 
One coffeecupful butter, 
One coffeecupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
Four coffeecupsful flour, brown the flour, if pre- 
ferred, black, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 201 

Two pounds raisins, 
One pound currants, 
Half pound citron. 



Cream Sponge Cake. 

One teacupful white sugar. 
One teacupful flour, 
Half teacupful cream, 
Two eggs. 

Union Cake. 

One teacupful butter. 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teacupful corn starch, 

Three eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 




Harrison Cake. 

(MRS. MATE ELLIOTT.) 

Three eggs, 

One teacupful and a half butter, 
One teacupful and a half brown sugar, 
Two teacupsful molasses, 
Five teacupsful flour, 
Two pounds raisins, 
One pound currants, 
17 ,: 




202 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One pound citron, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two tablespoonsful each of cinnamon and 

cloves, 

Two grated nutmegs. 
Bake two hours, if all baked in one pan. 



Delicate Cake. 

(MRS P. B. PRICE. ) 

Stir to a cream one pound powdered white sugar 
and seven ounces butter ; beat the- whites of sixteen 
eggs stiff; stir in one pound sifted flour. Flavor to the 
v taste. Bake immediately. 



Marble Cake. 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 
WHITE PART. 

The whites of eight eggs, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

Three teacupsful white sugar, 

One teacupful butter, 

Four teacupsful and a half flour, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar. 

DARK PART. 

The yelks of the eight eggs, and one whole egg, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
Three teacupsful brown sugar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 203 

One teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful butter, 
Five teacupsful flour. 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice 

and nutmeg. 

Put enough of the white in the pan to cover the 
bottom; then put in the spice and white alternately 
till all is in the pan. Bake two hours. This is one of 
the most delicious cakes I have ever tasted. It will 
keep almost as well as fruit cake. 



Fancy Cfake. 

Beat the yelks of four eggs into a half pound of 
sugar; add a little less than half pound flour; beat 
fifteen minutes, then add one teaspoonful rose water 
and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake in 
small cakes and put sugar plums on top. 

Aunty's Cake. 

Eight whites of eggs, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Half teacupful sweet milk, 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

Three-quarters of a teacupful butter, 

Half teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar. 



204 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

(MBS. DR. RYAN.) 

One teacupful butter, 

Two teacupsful and a half sugar, 

Four teacupsful flour, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 

Whites of seven eggs, 

One grated cocoanut. 

Bake in shallow tins. Make frosting, and grate into 
it another cocoanut to put between the cakes. Use a 
very little extract lemon in both cake and cocoanut. 



Sponge Cake. 

( MARIA WATSON. ) 

Thirteen eggs, beaten separate, 

One pound sugar^beaten with the yelks, 

Half pound flour stirred in lightly the last 

thing, 
Flavor with lemon. 



Snow Cake. 

( MRS. WM. A. TURNEY. ) 

The whites of ten 62:2*8, 

c5O / 

One tumbler and a half powdered sugar, 
One tumbler and two tablespoonsful flour, 
A scant teaspoonful cream tartar. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. ~~"^" 205 



White Cake. 

The whites of ten eggs, 
Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 
One coffeecupful butter, 
One coffeecupful sweet milk, 
Four coffeecupsful flour, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



Ambrosial Cake. 

( ELLA MYERS. ) 

Make any rich white cake; bake in jelly cake pans, 
using the following : 

Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 
Yelks of six eggs, 
Whites of four eggs, 
Four lemons. 

Grate the rind of two lemons ; one-quarter pound 
butter. Put in a pan and stew over a slow fire until 
it becomes thick. 

Sponge Cake. 

( ELLA MYEKS. ) 

One pint powdered sugar, 

One pint flour, 

Eight eggs, beaten separately, the yelks for 

half an hour, 
Flavor with lemon. Bake one hour. 



206 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Silver Cake. 

Three-quarters teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 
Four teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
The whites of five eggs, 
Flavor to taste. 

Peach is good for the silver, and lemon or nutmeg 
for the gold. 

Gold Cake. 

Two teacupsful sugar, 
Three-fourths teacupful butter, 
Four teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Yelks of five eggs, 
Flavor to taste. 



Starch Cake. 

The whites of seven eggs, 
One teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful white sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
One teacupful corn starch, 
t 



ILLINOIS COO.K BOOK. 207 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoon sful cream tartar, 



Corn Starch Cake 9 (No. 2.) 

The whites of sixteen eggs, 

One pound white sugar, 

Three-quarters pound butter. 

Beat the sugar and butter well together; beat the 
whites stiff; one pound of corn starch, one teaspoonful 
baking powder; beat lightly after adding the whites. 



Milwaukee Cake. 

Half teacupful butter, 

Two teacupsful sugar, 

Three teacupsful flour, 

Three eggs, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

Half teaspoonful soda, or one teacupful water, 

three teaspoonsful baking powder, 
Flavor with lemon. 



Tipsy Cake 9 (Sponge,) 

Cut a small cake in slices, put them into a flat glass 
dish, pour some wine and a little Jamaica over the 
cake; let it soak a few hours; put into a dish and 
serve with some custard round. It may be decorated 
with a few blanched almonds or whipped cream and 
fruit. 



208 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Chocolate Macaroons. 

Scrape tine hall* a 'pwmd baker's cocoa; beat stiff 
the whites of four eggs, and into this stir one pound 
powdered sugar and the scraped cocoa, adding a very 
little Hour. Form the mixture into small, thick cakes, 
and lay them not too close on a buttered tin, and bake 
a few minutes. Sift *sugar on them while warm. 

Mil 4 "" 

Chocolate Cake. 

Beat the whites of two eggs -with a quarter of a 
pound powdered sugar into a frothy cream; add the 
juice of half a lemon and six ounces of finely grated 
chocolate. Drop ijds mixture in spoonsful on a flat 
tin, and bake them slowly. 



Little Plum Cake, to Keep Long. 

Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of 
finely powdered sugar ; beat six ounces of butter to a 
cream, and add to three eggs, well-beaten; half a 
pound of currants washed and nicely dried, and the 
flour a'nd sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge 
flour on tin plates and drop the batter on them the size 
of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. 
Bake in a brisk oven. 



Lemon Drops. 

Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 209 

double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a 
plate, add half a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, and 
beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. 
Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moder- 
ate oven on a tin plate. 

Lemon Cake. 

( MRS. RAPP, JACKSONVILLE. ) 

Six eggs, 

Six ounces flour, 

Eight ounces sugar. 

( FILLING FOR CAKE. ) 

Three ounces butter, 

Four eggs, 

Four lemons, 

Three-fourths of a cupful sugar, 

Grated rind of two lemons. 

Mix all together ; then put in a pan and let it come 
to a boil. Be careful not to burn. Spread on cakes 
like jelly. 

Golden Cake. 

One teacupful of butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 
Three teacupsful flour, 
Eight eggs, the yelks, 
Half teacupful milk, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda. 



\ 

210 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Mix the flour and cream tartar together. Flavor 
with nutmeg. 

Jane 9 s Cream Cake. 

* One pint water, 
Half pound butter, 
Three-quarters of a pound flour, 
Ten eggs. 

Boil the water, melt the butter in it; stir in the 
flour dry while the water is boiling. When cool, add 
one teaspoonful soda and the eggs well-beaten. Drop 
the mixture on buttered this with a spoon, and bake 
twenty minutes. 

( INSIDE MIXTURE. ) 

One cupful flour, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One quart milk, 

Four eggs. 

Beat flour, eggs and sugar together, and stir into the 
boiling milk; when scalded enough add lemon and 
vanilla. When the cakes are cold open and till with 
this mixture. 



Cocoanut Cake. 

One cofleecupful butter, 

Three coffeecupsful sugar, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

Four coifeecupsful and a half flour, 

Four eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

One teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 211 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One grated cocoanut. (Excellent.) 



Cookies. 

(MAGGIE LAMB.) 

Seven eggs, . 

Two coffeecupsful sugar, 

Flour enough to make a soft dough, 

Three teaspoonsful baking powder, 

No milk or water, 

Two coffeecupsful butter. (Splendid.) 



Cookies. 

Two eggs, 

One teacupful loaf sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
Two tablespoonsful buttermilk, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Flour enough to roll out thin. Spice to the taste. 



Plnm Cake. 

One pound flour, 
One-quarter pound butter, 
One-quarter pound sugar, 
One-quarter pound currants, 
Three eggs, 
Half pint milk, 



212 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Spices to suit the taste. 

The above is excellent. These cakes are always 
baked in small pans. 

Excellent Cookies. 

Two teaeupsful sugar, 
One teacuj>ful butter, 
One teacupful lard, 
One teacupful sweet milk, 
Three-quarters of a pound corn starch, 
Three-quarters of a pound flour, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. 
Roll very soft. 

Jumbles. 

One coffeecupful sugar, after it is sifted, 

One scant coffeecupful butter, 

Two coffeecupsful flour, 

Two eggs, 

Flavor with lemon. 



Coffee Cake. 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful of made strong coffee, 
Two cupsful brown sugar, 
Three cupsful flour, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 213 

One cupful raisins, 
One cupful currants, 
Two teaspoonsful cinnamon, 
Two teaspoonsful cloves, 
One teaspoonful soda. 

Sponge Cake. 

Take five eggs, half a pound powdered sugar, break 
the egg upon the sugar, and beat with a steel fork for 
half an hour. Take the weight of two eggs and a 
half in the shell of flour; after you have beaten the 
eggs and sugar the time specified, grate in the rind of 
a lemon, the juice may be added at pleasure ; stir in 
the flour, and immediately pour it into a tin lined with 
buttered paper, and put it instantly into a moderate 
oven. 



Marble Cake. 

FOB THE WHITE. 

Two cupsful sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful sour milk, 
Three cupsful flour, 
Whites of seven eggs, 
One teaspoonful soda. 

FOB THE BLACK. 

Two cupsful brown sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful sour milk, 
Three cupsful flour, 




214 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One cupful molasses, 

Yelks seven eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Spice to taste. 

Mix each cake separately ; paper the bottom of your 
pan and grease well, then cover the bottom with some 
of the dark cake, and then add white and dark alter- 
nately till all is in the pan. Bake an hour and a half. 



Molasses Cup Cake. 

One coffeecupful molasses. 

One coffeecupful sugar, 

One coffeecupful sour milk or cream, 

One coffeecupful of mixed butter and lard, 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful chopped raisins, 

One coffeecupful currants, 

Four eggs, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

A pinch of salt, 

One teaspoonful cloves, 

One tablespoonful ginger, 

One nutmeg. 

Water Cookies. 

Two teacupsful sugar, 
One teacupful butter, 
One teacupful cold water, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 215 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Flour enough to roll, 
Ginger to taste. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

Half teacuplul butter, 
Half teacupful brown sugar, 
Half teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful and a half flour, 
Half teacupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One tablespoonful ginger, 
Two eggs. 



Soft Ginger Cake. 

Two teacupsful molasses, 

One teacupful sugar, 

One teacupful mixed butter and lard, 

Four teacupsful and a half flour, 

One teacupful sour milk or water, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Or with water, fourteaspoonsful baking powder, 

Two tablespoonsful ginger, 

One teaspoonful cloves. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 



One teacupful butter, 
Two teacupsful sugar, 



216 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teacupful molasses, 

Five teacupsful flour, 

One teacupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Three eggs, 

One tablespoonful and a half ginger, 

Cinnamon and allspice to the taste. 



Ginger Snaps. 

(BEN. WATSON'S.) 
Half pound butter, 
Half pound sugar, 
One pint New Orleans molasses, 
One ounce ginger. 

Flour enough to make very stiff dough; work 
smooth and roll thin, cut with a small cutter. Bake 
dark brown. 



Sponge Ginger Bread* 

Melt a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg, 

One pint New Orleans molasses, 

One tablespoonful ginger, 

One quart flour. 

Dissolve a tablespoonful of saleratue in half a pint 
sour milk, strain and mix ; add flour enough to enable 
you to roll about an inch thick, and bake in a quick 
oven. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 217 



Cakes. 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

Two coffeecupsful molasses^ v 
One coffeecupful lard, 
One tablespoonful ginger, 
One tablespoonful mustard, 
One tablespoonful soda, 
Flour enough to make very soft. 
Roll thin and bake quickly. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 

One coffeecupful butter, 
One pint molasses, 
One tablespoonful ginger. 
One pint flour, 
Two eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful saleratus,. 
Half pint sour milk. 
Flour to make as stiff batter as pound cake. 



xY Jumbles. 



Three teacupsful sugar, 
Two teacupsful butter, 
Three eggs, 

Four tablespoonsful sour cream, 
One teaspoonful soda. 

Roll thin, sprinkle with coffee sugar thickly on 
the top before placing in the oven. 
18 



218 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Soft G-inger Bread. 

( JANE ILES. ) 

One pint New Orleans molasses, 
Two tablespoonsful butter, 
Three pint? and a half flour, 
Two tablespoonsful ginger, 
Half pint sour milk, 
One tablespoonful soda. 



Raised Cake without Eggs. 

Stir together a coffeecupful of light sugar and half a 
cupful of butter; add a pint of warm water, half 
a cupful of yeast, and flour enough to make as thick 
as ordinary fruit cake; rise over night; when very 
light, add a little mace, cinnamon, allspice and nut- 
meg, one cupful chopped raisins. Put in the pan, let 
rise until light, then bake. 



G-inger Snaps. 

One egg, 

One teacupful sugar, 

Piece of butter the size of an egg, 

Quarter of a teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

warm water, 
One spoonful ginger, 
Flour to roll. 



Lou's Ginger Snaps. 

One pint molasses, 
One cupful lard, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



219 



Half cupful sugar, 

One teaspoonful soda dissolved*!! warm water, 
Cinnamon and ginger to taste. 
Mix them stiff, pound them, roll thirT, and bake 



Almond Cake. 

One coffeecupful butter, 
Two coffeecupsful white sugar, 
Four coffeecupsful flour, 
One coffeecupful cream or rich milk, 
Twelve whites of eggs, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful extract of almond, 
Two pounds of almonds in the shell. 
Blanch the almonds and slice very thin, and rub on 
a little flour before putting them in the cake. Mix as 
for other cakes ; stir, but not beat, after all is in. 

Cocoanul Jumbles 9 No. 1. 

Three eggs, 
Three cupsful sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
One cupful cream, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One large or two small cocoanuts grated, 
Five cupsful and a half flour. 
Roll them out in sugar. 



220 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 2. 

| One cupful sugar, 
One eggj 

A piece of butter the size of two eggs, 
Two tablespoon sful sour cream, 
Half teaspoonful soda. 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, if sweet milk is used, 
and flour enough to make the dough stiff enoiigh to 
roll out in sugar. Half package of prepared cocoa- 
j^ut or one whole one grated. 

Almond Icing. 

If it is wished to ice a cake, as is done for bride 
cake, a layer of almonds must be first spread over the 
cake according to the following receipt : Take the 
whites of three fresh eggs, and beat them to a stiff 
froth; bruise one pound of Jordan almonds very tine 
with rose water enough to prevent their oiling in a 
mortar, and mix them with the whites of eggs very 
lightly together; mix in by degrees one pound of 
powdered sugar, when the cake is taken from the oven 
lay this mixture on very smoothly ; let it dry gradually, 
and when dry enough proceed to sugar ice it. 



Sugar Ice. 

Beat two pounds of double-refined sugar and two 
ounces of fine starch, sift through a gauze sieve; then 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 221 

beat the whites of five eggs till they are stiff, adding 
the sugar by degrees ; when all the sugar has been put 
in, continue to beat it half an hour longer; then lay it 
over the almond icing and spread it very even with a 
bread knife. If it is put on as soon as the cake comes 
out of the oven, it will be hard by the time the cake is 
cold. 

Tea or Coffee Cake. 

Four eggs, 

Two cupsful nice brown sugar, 

One cupful butter, or half lard, 

Three teacupsful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Half a nutmeg grated. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a suitable pan and beat 
well together, add butter, and beat all well; put in the 
nutmeg ; now stir in flour, to make it of such a consis- 
tency that it will not run from the spoon when it is 
lifted up. Any one preferring any other flavor can 
suit their own taste. This can be baked in little cakes 
or in square baking pans. 

Pork Cake without Butter, Eggs or Milk. 

A most delightful cake is made by the use of pork, 
(fat pickled pork.) It must be tasted to be appre- 
ciated, and another advantage is, you can make enough 
some leisure day to last through the season. I have 
eaten it three or four months after it was baked, and it 



222 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

was very nice and moist. Take nice fat pickled pork, free 
from any lean or rind, and chopped to look almost like 
lard, of this after it is chopped, one pound ; pour half 
a pint boiling water on it ; raisins stoned and chopped 
two pounds ; citron, shaved into shreds half a pound; 
currants, washed and dried one pound; brown sugar, 
two cupsful (teacupsful measure;) molasses, one cup- 
ful; soda, one teaspoonful, rubbed fine and put. into the 
molasses. Mix them all . together and stir in sifted 
flour to the consistency of any other fruit or pound 
cake. Put in such spices as are suited to the taste. 
Cinnamon, cloves and allspice, are usually put into 
fruit cake, but in making any cake that requires flavor 
or spices, persons are not required to adhere strictly to 
the receipt if it does not suit the taste. Paper and 
grease a pan well and bake slowly. The best rule for 
baking cake is to watch it closely and try it with a 
straw; if nothing adheres to the straw, and your 
judgment tells you it has been in long enough, take it 
out of the oven. Be careful not to take a fruit cake 
out of the pan while it is too hot. You can put in as 
much fruit or as little as you like. It is intended for a 
cheap cake, and for those who do not feel able to 
always have the richer fruit cakes. 

Cider Cake. 

Six cupsful flour, 

Three cupsful sugar, white or brown, 

One cupful butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. -223 

Four eggs, 
One cupful cider, 
One teaspoonful soda^ 
One grated nutmeg. 

Mix as other cakes. Put soda in the cider. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Roll Jelly Cake. 

One cupful and a half nice brown sugar, 

Three eggs, 

One cupful sweet milk, 

Two cupsful flour, or a very little more, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful and a half cream tartar, 

Flavor to suit the taste, lemon is nice. 
Beat the sugar and eggs together till light ^ mix the 
cream tartar and soda into the milk, stirring in the 
flavor also ; now mix in the flour, remembering to bake 
soon, spreading thin upon a long tin pan well-greased. 
As soon as it is done, take it out on your bread board ; 
spread jelly upon the top of it, and spread it all over 
nicely and roll up, slicing only as it is to be used. 



Dried Apple Cake. 

Yery fine. Try it. 

One coffeecupful dried apples soaked over night. 
In the morning drain, chop fine, and cook slowly in 
one coffeecupful syrup. 

CAKE. 
One coffee cupful brown sugar, 



224 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One-third of a coffeecupful butter, 

Two coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sour milk, 

One egg, j ' 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Spice to the taste. 

White Fruit Cake. 

The whites of ten eggs, 

Two coffeecupsful powdered white sugar, 

One coffeecupful butter, 

Four coffeecupsful flour, 

One coffeecupful sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

Flavor with rose and peach water, 

Two pounds raisins well stoned and chopped, 

Two pounds currants well washed and dried, 

One pound citron sliced thin. 

Beat butter and sugar together till it is light ; mix 
cream tartar in the flour, and stir in a little flour be- 
fore putting in the milk; then add flour and whites 
(which must be well-beaten) alternately, stir well to- 
gether, and add fruit till all is in. Have ready a pan 
sufficiently large. It is well, in all cakes, to have the 
bottom of the pan covered with a well-greased paper. 
This will take about two hours to bake. Do not have 
your oven too hot, but keep a steady and regular heat. 
If it should require it, put a thick brown paper on the 
top to prevent its getting too brown. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 225 

Icing for Cake. 

To the white of an egg, one quarter pound powder- 
ed sugar. Beat the egg stiff, and add by degrees the 
sugar. Flavor with lemon juice. This makes it 
whiter and smoother, and improves it much. 



Ginger Pound Cake. 

Eight eggs, 

Four cupsful brown sugar, 

Nine cupsful flour, 

Three cupsful and half butter, 

One cupful and a half rich 'sour cream, 

Two cupsful ginger, 

Two teaspoonsful soda, 

Four teacupsful molasses. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar to them ; 
cream the butter with the flour; warm the cream with 
the soda; then mix all together alternately with the 
ginger and molasses, and then beat very hard. Bake 
either in little pans or in a large cake pan. 

s 

Crullers. 

Four eggs, 

Six tablespoonsful white sugar, 
Four tablespoonsful melted butter, 
Four tablespoonsful sweet milk, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 
Mix soft and fry in hot lard. 



226 ILLINOIS COOK. BOOK. 

Cookies. 

Two cupsful sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One egg, 

One cupful cream, 
A little soda, 
One cupful butter. 

Pork Cake. 

( CLARA'S. ) 
Half teacupfuFfat salt pork (pickled) chopped 

very tine, 

One teacupful brown sugar, 
One teacupful molasses, 
One teacupful milk, 
One teacupful raisins or currants, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two eggs, 
Cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice to the taste. 

Sponge Cake. 

( MRS. RYAN. ) 

Twelve eggs, Z f*~~* $ 

Sixteen ounces flour, ^ 

One pound powdered white sugar. 
Heat the flour; beat the yelks and sugar well to- 
gether; beat the whites very stiff; add the whites and 
flour alternate; flavor with either lemon or almond, 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful tartartic acid, which must 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 227 

be put in last. Do not beat after you begin to gtir in 
the whites. If this is baked in shallow tins, after it is 
put into the pans have ready some blanched almonds 
sliced very thin, and sprinkle on the top. 

Crullers. 

Half cupful butter, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful sugar, 
Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
Flour enough to make a dough stiff enough to roll 
out in cakes. Fry in lard. 



Doughnuts. 

One cupful sugar, 
One cupful sour milk, 
Two eggs, 

Five dessertspoonsful melted butter. 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Salt, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
Fry in hot lard. 

Snow Cake, ( Very Fine.) 

Half pound butter, 
Half pound powdered sugar, 
One pound arrowroot, 
The whites of six eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add arrowroot and sugar, 



228 * ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

gradually, beating all the time; beat the whites separ- 
ately, and when stiff add to the mixture ; flavor to suit 
taste, and beat all together twenty minutes. Bake in 
shallow tins or in small tins in moderate oven. 

~~ * 
Cream Jelly Cake. 

Three cupsful flour, 
Two cupsful white sugar, 
One cupful butter, 
Half cupful sweet milk, 
Four eggs, 

Half teaspoonful baking powder. 
Bake in jelly tins. 

CREAM FOB THE ABOVE. 

Grate two lemons, add the juice, 
One cupful sugar, 
Half cuptul butter, 
Yelks of three eggs, 

Stir constantly over the h're till it jellies; when cold 
spread between the cakes. 



White Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, 

One cupful and a half powdered white sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
One teaspoon sful cream tartar. 
Mix cream tartar, sugar and flour together, beat 
well ; stir in (after they are beaten stiff) very gently. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 229 



Newport Cake. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

Two tablespoonsful sugar, 
Piece of butter the size of an egg, 
Two eggs, beaten separately, 
One cupful and a half sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Two teaspoon sf ul cream tartar, 
Three cupsful flour. 
Bake fifteen minutes. (Cheap and good.) 



Crullers. 

One pint sour milk, 
One cupful sugar, 
Two eggs, 

Two teaspoonsful salt, 
One teaspoonful soda. 



Cocoanut Cookies. 

Three cupsful white sugar, 

Three eggs, 

One cupful sour milk, 

One teaspoonful soda. 

As much flour as will make it a soft dough. Then 
add a box of cocoanut, (or one grated cocoanut,) and a 
tablespoonful of grated nutmeg. Have the dough as 
soft as you can well roll it, and about an inch thick; 
cut and bake a light brown. 



230 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Ammonia Calce. 

Three eggs, 

Three-quarters pound sugar, 
Half pound butter, 
Half teacupful sweet cream, 
Half teaspoonful ammonia, 
One small teaspoonful soda, 
One lemon. 
Flour enough to make a dough. Boll thin. 

White Cake. 

One cupful butter, 
Two cupsful and a half sugar, 
Four cupsful flour, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
Whites of seven eggs, 
Two teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Bake on shallow tins. 



Ginger Cake. 

( MES. PERKINS. ) 

Three tablespoonsful ginger, 

Half of a nutmeg, 

One teaspoonful cloves, 

One teaspoonful cinnamon, 

One tablespoonful soda, 

One pint molasses, 

One teacupful brown sugar, 

One teacupful butter or sweet lard, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 231 

One teacupful sour cream or milk, 
Four eggs, well-beaten. 
Flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cupful butter, 
One cupful sugar, 
Two cupsful molasses, 
Ginger and spice to the taste. 
Flour enough to roll out. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 

One cupful butter, 

One cupful sugar, 

Two cupsful molasses, 

One cupful sour milk, 

Five cupsful flour, 

Four eggs, 

Two tablespoonful ginger, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonsful cream tartar. 

Snow Cake. 

One cupful and a half powdered sugar, 
One cupful flour, 
The whites of eight eggs, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar mixed in the flour. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 232 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, and then 
beat into it very hard a pound of powdered white 
sugar; mix with it a pound of grated cocoanut to a 
stiff paste. Flour jour hands and make it up into 
little balls. Lay them on sheets of buttered white 
paper, and bake them in a brisk oven, first grating 
white sugar over each. They will be done in a few 
minutes. 



Orange Cake. 

(MKS. j. BUNN.) 

Make cake as for jelly cake, put together with icing; 
take the grated rind, all the inside pulp and juice of 
one large orange ; then thicken with sugar. When a 
little dry frost all over with the frosting. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

(MRS. j. BUNN.) 

One cupful butter, beat to a cream, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful corn starch. 
Two cupsful flour, 
"Whites of seven eggs, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Two-thirds teaspoonful soda. 
Bake quickly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 233 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, 
One pound sugar, 
Ten ounces of flour, 
One fresh lemon. 
Put the flour in last. 



Sponge Cake. 

Weigh the eggs, and then weigh as much sugar as 
the eggs weigh; take half as much flour and two 
ounces more, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, one of 
soda, dissolve in a little water ; wet the sugar with a 
little milk ; beat the whites and put them in last. t 

Cream Cake. 

(MKS. DAVIS.) 

One cupful boiling water, one tablespoonful butter, 
while the water and butter are boiling, stir in one cupful 
flour ; it will make a thick and smooth paste. After it 
is taken off the fire, add four eggs, and beat the mix- 
ture as hard as possible until very smooth. Drop 
into buttered tins in small cakes, and smooth over 
them the white of an egg beaten to a frost. Bake 
ten minutes in a very hot oven. For the filling of 
these cakes 

One sheet of isinglass, 

One-third of a cupful hot water, 

Two cupsful milk, 

The yelk of one egg, 

Sweeten and flavor to the taste. 
19 



234: ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Strain the mixture and let it stand till it congeals; 
then put a spoonful into each cake. 



Railroad Cake. 

( MRS. DAVIS. ) 

One cupful sugar, 

Four tablespoonsful melted butter, 

Half cupful milk, 

Three eggs, 

One and a half cupsful flour, 

Three teaspoon sful baking powder, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 



Common Crullers or Twist Calces. 

Mix well together half a pint of sour milk or butter- 
milk, two teacupsful sugar, one teacupful of butter 5 , 
and three eggs well-beaten ; add to this a teaspoonful 
of ealeratus dissolved in hot water, a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon ; sift in flour enough to make a 
smooth dough ; roll it out not quite a quarter of an 
inch thick ; cut in small oblong pieces ; divide one end 
in three or four parts like fingers, and twist or plait 
them over each other. Fry them in boiling lard. 
These cakes may be cut in strips, and the ends 
joined, to make a ring, or in any other shape. 



Soft Crullers. 

Sift three-quarters of a pound of flour, and powder 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 235 

half a pound of loaf sugar ; heat a pint of water in a 
round bottomed saucepan, and when quite warm, mix 
the flour with it gradually ; set half a pound of fresh 
butter over the fire in a small vessel, and when it be- 
gins to melt, stir it gradually into the flour and water ; 
then add by degrees the powdered sugar and half a 
grated nutmeg. Take the saucepan off the fire, and 
beat the contents with a wooden paddle or spatula 
till they are thoroughly mixed;' then beat six eggs 
very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture. 
Beat the whole very hard till it becomes a thick batter. 
Flour a pasteboard very well, and lay out the batter 
upon it in rings, (the best way is to pass it through a 
screw funnel.) Have ready, on the fire, a pot of boil- 
ing lard of the very best quality ; put in the crullers, 
removing them from the board by carefully taking 
them up, one at a time, on a broad-bladed knife. Boil 
but few at a time. They must be of a fine brown. 
Lift them out on a perforated skimmer, draining the 
lard from them back into the pot ; lay them on a large 
dish, and sift powdered white sugar over them. 



Cocoanut Jumbles. 

Cut the meat of a large cocoanut in slices and grate 
them. Beat up the whites of five*eggs and the yelks 
of three, and mix with them a few drops of the essence 
of lemon. Mix the grated cocoanut with a small por- 
tion of flour, roll it lightly on .a floured pasteboard, 
cut it into rings with a tumbler, the edge of which is 
floured. Butter the pans into which the cakes are to 



I 

236 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



be laid, and after sifting a little loaf sugar over the 
cakes ; bake them in a quick oven. When they begin 
to brown they are done. 



Hice Cake. 

Take eight yelks and four whites of eggs, and beat 
to a foam ; add six ounces of powdered sugar, and the 
peel of one lemon grated ; then stir in half a pound of 
ground rice, and beat all together for half an hour. 
Put it into a buttered tin, and bake twenty minutes. 
This cake is recommended as very easy of digestion. 



Com Starch Cake. 

One cupful sugar, 
Butter the size of an egg, 
Two eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful milk, 
One teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
Half teaspoonful soda, 

One cupful and two tablespoonsful corn starch, 
Makes twelve cakes. 



Tea Cakes. 

Five cupsful flour, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful of butter or sweet lard, 

One egg, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One small cupful sour milk. 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 237 



White Cake. 

Two pounds powdered white sugar, 

One pound butter, 

One pound and three-quarters flour, 

The whites of twenty-four eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream, then add the sugar, and 
beat them well together; add flour and the .whites al- 
ternately. This should be very carefully watched 
while baking, paper should be kept over the the top to 
keep it from getting too brown. The beauty of any 
white cake is to have it thoroughly, and at the same 
time, delicately baked. 

Almond found Cake. 

One pound powdered white sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

One teacupful sweet milk, 

One pound flour, 

One teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water, 

One teaspoonful essence of lemon, 

Half pound of blanched almonds pounded 

small, 
Four eggs. 

Swiss Cream. 

Four tablespoonsful white sugar. 
One teaspoonful corn starch, 
The whites of five eggs, 

Put the cream on to boil, then let it cool, and then 
add the whites and boil again, stirring all the time. 



238 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cookies. 

(MRS. GOODELL. ) 
Two cupsful butter, 
Two cupsful sugar, 
Seven eggs, 
Caraway seed. 
Enough- flour to roll out. 



Doughnuts. 

One cupful butter and lard, 

One cupful sugar, 

One cupful boiling water, 

Flour enough to make a thick sponge, 

One cupful yeast. 
Let it stand over night. Then add 

One cupful sugar, 

Three eggs. 

Flour enough to make a dough, not too stiff. 
Let it rise till quite light ; then roll them out, cut 
and boil them in hot lard to a light brown, dipping 
them as you take them out in powdered sugar and cin- 
namon. 

Crullers. 

One cupful sugar, 
Three eggs, 

Butter the size of an egg, 
Flour enough to roll out. 
Cut and fry in hot lard. 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 239 



Citron Marble Cake. 

Mix up any nice white cake. 

One pound almonds, blanched and sliced, 
Half pound citron, sliced very thin, 
Color one-third of the batter pink. 
Put part of the white batter in your pan, then a 
little of the pink thrown in carelessly; then part of 
the almonds, then a part of the citron, then white 
and pink, and alternating each till all is in the mould. 
Have your oven the proper heat before putting it into 
the stove ; watch it well ; if it begins to brown too 
quickly, put a paper over it to keep it from browning 
too much. 



Orange Paste. 

Whites of two eggs, 
Two-thirds of a cupful pulverized sugar, 
The juice of two oranges and grated rind of one. 
The eggs must be beaten up very light and stiff, 

then add the sugar and orange ; spread on instead of 

jelly when the cakes are cold. 



Imperial Cake. 

(MRS. HODGES. ) 
Ten eggs, 

One pound powdered sugar, 
One pound flour, 
One pound butter, 



240 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Two pounds almonds blanched, and sliced 

thin, and rubbed in a little flour, 
One pounds raisins stoned and chopped. 
Beat butter and sugar together to a cream, whites 
beaten stiff, and added with the flour alternately; one 
tumbler of good brandy; flavor with extract of 
almond; put in the raisins and almonds and stir well 
after they are in, but do not beat. Bake just like fruit 
cake, but not so long, about two hours and a half. 

Irish Cake. 

One pound sifted sugar, 

One pound butter, beat to a cream, 

One pound and a quarter flour, 

One pound currants, 

Three eggs, beat the whites to a froth, 

Quarter of a pound blanched sweet almonds cut 
small, 

A small glassful of brandy, 

One nutmeg or one lemon. 

Beat the cake one hour, or till it is very light; leave 
out the currants and almonds till you are ready to pul 
it in the pan; put paper in the bottom of the pan. 

Jumbles. 

( MRS. MASTERS. ) 

One pound a half flour, 
Three-quarters of a pound white sugar, 
Three-quarters of a pound butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 241 

Three eggs. 

Quarter teaspoonful soda in one tablespoonful 

of water. 

Sift and weigh the flour, put it into your pan; take 
your hand and make a hole in the centre, pushing the 
flour to the sides of the pan ; put in your butter and 
sugar ; beat your eggs well together and pour in with 
the butter and sugar ; then add your soda and water, 
and mix well, using all the pound and a half of flour; 
when mixed, take a piece of the dough and roll it in a 
round roll with your hands, and then cut them into 
lengths and join the ends together, making a cake with 
a hole in the centre. These cakes can be made as 
large or as small as you wish. Flavor with grated 
nutmeg. 

Doughnuts. 

Make just as you would for soda biscuits, only add 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsful' sugar, 

Cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Roll, cut, and fry a light brown in hot lard. 



Splendid Cookies. 

( MKS. WILSON. ) 

Two pounds flour, 

Two pounds sugar, 

One coffeecupful butter, which is ten ounces, 

Six eggs, 



242 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Five teaspoonsful baking powder, 

Flavor to suit the taste. 

Beat sugar and butter together, then add eggs, and 
beat all well together; put baking powder in flour, 
mix well. The dough will be soft ; break off a small 
portion of the dough, flour your bread board, and with 
your two hands roll the piece of dough into a round 
long roll ; then take a sharp knife, flour it, and cut the 
cakes off in inch pieces ; they will be small, but will 
spread in the pan ; it is the nicest way for all cookies, 
as the rolling the dough with a rolling pin destroys 
the lightness of almost any dough. By the addition 
of one grated cocoanut, you will will have splendid 
cocoanut macaroons. 



PUDDINGS 



DIRECTIONS IN REGARD TO PUDDINGS. 



In making bags for puddings that are to be boiled, 
the muslin should be close to keep out the water. It 
should always be dipped in water (cold) and wrung 
out, then thoroughly floured on the inside ; turn it and 
put in your pudding, leaving sufficient room for the 
pudding to swell. Suet and Indian meal puddings re- 
quire more room than others. Always put an old 
plate of some kind in the bottom of the pot to prevent 
sticking and burning. Have the pot well filled with 
boiling water, as cold would ruin the pudding. Keep 
the pot well filled, and if water must be added, use 
boiling water. Do not let it stop boiling, as it is an 
injury to the pudding. Turn the pudding over after it 
has been in a few minutes ; always keep the pot cov- 
ered. Dip the bag in cold water a moment before 
turning the pudding out. Be sure all eggs used are 
fresh, generally beat the whites and yelks separately. 
Do not put eggs into hot milk. All butter used in 
cooking should be sweet and good. In boiling cus- 



244 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

tards, always set the vessel in another containing boil- 
ing water, it prevents sticking and burning. 

Fruit and other materials used in puddings should 
always be, if possible, prepared before the time of 
using. In families where they can get such things in 
quantities, it will be found a great convenience to 
make a business of preparing currants and raisins at 
least. Take three or four pounds of dried currants, 
put them into a sieve, and set that into a large clean 
tin or other pan, and pour over the currants sufficient 
warm (not hot) water to cover them ; let them remain 
ten or fifteen minutes, then take your hands and rub 
them well to remove all dirt and sand. Pour off that 
water and add more. Let the currants remain in the 
sieve, continue pouring on clean water till your fruit is 
clean, which will be seen by the color of the water. 
The use of the sieve is of great assistance, as it pre- 
vents the loss of fruit, and all the dirt is sure to be 
washed away, leaving the fruit cleaner than could be 
made in any other way. When clean, take the sieve 
from the water ; shake it well, and and let it set till the 
water has all dropped off; then wipe in a clean cloth 
and put them in a large dripping pan, set them in the 
stove oven ; watch them closely, stirring till the water 
is dried out and they appear fresh and full; then take 
them out; let them get cold, and put them away in 
either glass or earthen jars. In this way they can be 
used with less trouble. It takes but a very short time 
to prepare them, and is of great assistance, as they 
are always ready on short notice. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 245 



Raisins should, if possible, be stemmed an'd put 
away in tin boxes. Every housekeeper knows, no 
doubt, the inconvenience of having to wait to wash 
and clean currants, and stem and stone raisins, es- 
pecially if the pudding or fruit cake is needed the same 
day. In a short winter day it is almost impossible to 
get them prepared in time, especially if the pudding is 
to take three hours to boil or steam, or the cake three 
or four hours to bake; ^ hence the necessity ol taking 
one spare hour in the morning and preparing the fruits 
ready for the " time of need." If once tried it will 
never be abandoned I am sure. I give this as my 
own way of preparation. All spices should kept on 
hand in such quantities as .economy shall direct. 
Each bottle or box should be labelled and kept covered 
or corked tight. Cream tartar, soda, tartaric acid, and 
indeed all such things, should be carefully labelled to 
prevent mistakes. By using these precautions time 
and inconvenience will both be saved. 



IBrandy or Wine Sauce. 

To a quarter of a pound of butter put a quarter of 
a pound of sugar and a gill of brandy or wine ; grate 
half a nutmeg into it ; make it hot and serve, or it 
may be beaten well together and used cold. 



Lemon Sauce. 

Make as directed for the above sauce, using the 
lemon juice instead of the wine or brandy. 



246 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cold Sauce. 

Four ounces butter, 
Six ounces sugar, 
White of one egg whipped, 
One glass of wine, 
Cream, butter and sugar together. 
Add the lemon essence, then the white of egg. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

Half pound sugar, 

Quarter pound butter, 

Two eggs well beaten together. 
Set the vessel in boiling water till it boils about two 
minutes. In making butter and sugar sauce, stir in a 
little lemon essence before putting in anything else. 
It makes it very light. 

Sauce for Boiled Hice. 

Beat the yelks of three eggs into sugar enough to 
make it sweet ; add a teacupful of cream and the grated 
rind and juice of two lemons. When lemon cannot 
be had use dried lemon peel and a little tartaric acid. 
This is a nice sauce for other puddings, especially for 
corn starch puddings. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cupful brown or white sugar, 

One egg, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 247 

Beat all together to a cream, add half a wine glass 
of boiling water. Flavor to suit the taste. 

Liquid Sauce. 

Six tablespoonsful sugar, 

Ten tablespoonsful water, 

Four tablespoonsful butter, 

Two tablespoonsful wine. 

Heat the water and sugar very hot ; stir in the 
butter till it is melted. Be careful and not let it boil. 
Flavor to suit the taste. 

Butter and Sugar Sauce. 

This is made by beating to a cream two cupsful 
white sugar and half a cupful of sweet butter. For 
plain batter puddings it may be thinned with a few 
spoonsful boiling water. Flavor to suit the taste. 
Nutmeg is very nice, though lemon juice or wine may 
be used. 



Pudding Sauce. 

One cupful brown sugar, 

Two tablespoonsful of cream, 

One ounce butter. 

Stir the butter and sugar thoroughly ; then add a 
little of the cream at a time to keep them from separ- 
ating ; add wine to the taste in the same manner, (not 
quite a wineglassful.) Let the mixture melt; it will be 
a white froth when done. Enough for five persons. 



- 



248 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Heat over steam half apint of brandy ; beat together 
to a cream two cupsful of sugar, and half a cupful of 
butter and two well-beaten eggs stirred into it ; then 
add the brandy, mixing thoroughly. Keep hot till 
needed. 



Wine Sauce. 

"Wine sauce may be made in the same proportion 
as the above, using a cupful of wine ; heat over steam, 
but do not stir while melting. 



Wine Sauce. 

Piece of butter size of an egg, 

One cupful powdered sugar, stirred till very 



Three-fourths of a cupful boiling water, 
One wineglassful of wine turned on to the 
sugar and butter, and stir briskly. 



Mrs. JR/s Pudding Sauce. 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One glassful of wine. 

Beat all well together till creamy, and set over the 
fire a few minutes to scald through once, or set it in 
the tea kettle top to heat through. 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 249 



Sweet Sauce. 

"Work a teacupful of sugar into a teacupful of butter 
with a teaspoonful of flour and half a nutmeg, grated ; 
when it is a smooth paste, stir gradually into it half a 
pint of boiling water; set it over the fire for ten min- 
utes, stir it all the time. This sauce is nice with al- 
most any kind of puddings or dumplings ; wine or 
brandy can be added, that is a matter of choice. 



Chinese Fun. 

(MRS. E. B. PEASE.) 
One cupful of chopped suet, 
Three cupsful flour, 
One cupful molasses, 
One cupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda in the milk, 
A little salt, 
One cupful raisins, 

One teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves and cin- 
namon. 

Steam three hours if all in one pan ; if in small 
cups, steam two hours. 

Mich Lemon Sauce. 

Boil a nice large lemon in plenty of water, until 
you can run a straw through it, then cut it in slices, 
and each slice into quarters ; put to them and the 
juice a teacupful of sugar, the same of butter, with a 
large teaspoonful of flour worked into it; put all to- 
20 






250 ILLINOIS COOK. BOOK. 

gether and stir in gradually half a pint of boiling 
water ; grate half a nutmeg ; put this over the fire ten 
minutes, stirring all the time. 



Cheap Dessert. 

Cook one teacupful of rice; when done to a jelly add 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly and half a teacupful 
of fruit juice ; boil a few minutes ; mould, and eat 
with cream and white sugar. 



Potato Pudding. 

One quart soft mashed potatoes, 

Half a pound melted butter, 

Six eggs, beat light. 

Mix the butter with half a pound sugar; stir in the 
eggs, adding half a pound currants or raisins; put in 
a thick cloth and boil half an hour. To be eaten with 
wine sauce. 

Brown Pudding. 

Three cupsful flour, 
One cupful molasses, 
One cupful raisins, 
Three-quarters of a cupful suet, 
One cupful sour milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
One teaspoonful salt. 
To steam three hours. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 251 

A Baked Indian Pudding. 

Cut up a quarter of a pound of butter in a pint of 
molasses, and warm them together till the butter is 
melted ; boil one quart of milk, and while scalding hot 
pour it over a pint of sifted corn meal, and stir in the 
molasses and butter, and let it steep for an hour cov- 
ered over ; take off the cover and let it cool ; when cool 
beat six eggs, and into it add a tablespoonful of mixed 
cinnamon and nutmeg and the grated peel of a lemon ; 
stir the whole very hard, and put it into a buttered 
dish and bake it two hours. Serve with any kind of 
sauce. 

German Puffs. 

Sift half a pound of flour; cut up into a quart of 
rich milk half a pound of fresh butter, set near the fire 
till melted ; beat eight eggs very light and stir gradual- 
ly into the milk and butter alternately with the flour ; 
add a grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of cinnamon; 
mix the whole to a fine smooth batter; butter some 
large cups and fill them a little more than half full ; 
set them immediately in a quick oven, and bake a 
quarter of an hour ; when done, turn them out into a 
dish and grate sugar over them. Serve with sauce. 



Steam Pudding. 

( MISS CARRIE HURST. ) 

Three pints sweet milk, 
Three eggs, 



252 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

Flour enough to make a little stiffer than batter 
pudding, 

A very little salt, 

Currants or raisins if you like. 
Fill the cups half full ; put them in a steamer and 
steam half an hour; eat with sauce; make with equal 
quantities of sugar and butter, with nutmeg and 
brandy. 

Florentine Pudding. 

( SALLIE FOREMAN. ) 

One quart sweet milk, 

Five tablespoonsful white sugar, 

Three tablespoonsful corn starch, 

Three eggs. 

Mix the corn starch and three spoonsful of the sugar 
and the yelks of the eggs and the milk; put on and 
boil until thick; then take off and put in a baking 
dish; after it is slightly browned, take the whites of 
the three eggs and the other two spoonsful of sugar 
and beat well and put on the top, and bake a light 
brown. Flavor to suit the taste ; eat with cream. 



German Pudding. 



Two eggs, 

One cupful sugar, 

One cupful milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 258 



Three cupsful flour, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Bake and serve with sauce. 



Batter Pudding. 

(MRS. DR. GRISSOM, KY. ) 

Two tablesoonpsful of flour to one egg, and rnilk to 
make as thin as possible; of course you can make 
this as large as you want, but this is the proportion ; 
beat all together, add a little salt. 

Batter Pudding. 

Nine eggs, 

Ten tablespoonsful flour, 

One quart milk. 



found Pudding 9 (Steamboat.) 

One pound white sugar and three-quarters of a 
pound butter, beat together; add five eggs, continue 
beating; add half a pound of flour; then add the 
other flve eggs, one at a time, still beating them slowly 
together; add the other half pound flour; put the 
whole into a mould with a tight cover and steam, in- 
stead of baking, for one hour, fast, or one hour and a 
half, slowly. By adding beef suet instead of butter, 
with raisins, currants and citron, it makes an excellent 
plum pudding. The sauce is made by taking a little 
good butter and an equal quantity of sugar beat to- 
gether. Flavor to suit the taste. 



254 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Chocolate Custard, (Very Nice.) 

One-quarter pound Baker's prepared cocoa to one 
quart milk. Mix the milk and scraped chocolate to a 
thick paste. Boil one-quarter of an hour ; while warm 
stir in three tablespoonsful of sugar, and set it away 
to cool. Beat eight eggs well and stir into this mix- 
ture. Bake in cups, and serve with a macaroon on 
top of each cup. 

Almond Custard, (Rich.) 

Boil in half a pint of milk one handful of bitter 
almonds, blanched and broken up. When highly 
flavored, strain this milk and set it aside. Boil one 
quart of milk by itself; when cold, add eight well- 
beaten eggs, the flavored milk and half a pint of 
powdered sugar; stir well. Bake in cups, and when 
cold serve with macaroons laid on each cup. 

Pandoudy. ' r * 5 1 ! v 

( MRS. CRAVEN. ) 

Pare, core and slice thin some sour, juicy apples ; 
butter a deep dish, and put in a- layer of apples ; 
sweeten with brown sugar, and flavor with lemon peel ; 
strew over a layer of bread crumbs and bits of butter; 
repeat this till the dish is full, finishing with a layer of 
bread crumbs. Bake till the apples are soft. A little 
cider improves this very much. To be eaten with 
sweetened cream. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 255 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Three tablespoonsful of tapioca soaked in cold 
water till it is swelled enough ; then add one quart of 
milk, and put it in a double kettle, or in a pitcher, and 
set into boiling water, and when the tapioca is suf- 
ficiently tender add the yelks of three eggs, a small 
teacupful of sugar, a little salt ; stir this into the boil- 
ing milk ; flavor with vanilla ; then pour half in a dish ; 
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth ; then 
pour the remainder on the top. You can make it in 
the morning, as it is to be eaten cold, and is very nice. 



Hice Pudding. 

One pound washed rice to one quart rich milk, 
One-quarter pound sugar, 
One teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
A little salt. 

Bake two hours. A little cream added is an im- 
provement. 



Plum Pudding. 

Pick and stone half a pound of raisins, wash and 
dry the same quantity of currants ; chop, not too fine, 
three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, .put in a con- 
venient basin with six ounces of sugar, two ounces of 
candied peel sliced, three ounces of flour, three ounces 
of bread crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, four eggs, a 
gill of water, or perhaps a little more, to form a nice 
consistence ; butter a mould, put a piece of white pa- 



256 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

per over the top and round the sides ; tie it in a cloth, 
boil for four hours in plenty of water ; when done, re- 
move the cloth, turn it out of the mould, take the pa- 
per off the sides and top, and serve with sweet sauce 
round. It may also be boiled in a cloth. 

Lemon Drops. 

Grate three large lemons with a large piece of 
double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a 
plate, add half a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, and 
beat into a light paste with the white of an egg; drop 
it upon white paper, and put them in a moderate oven 
on a tin plate. 

Batter Pudding. 

Eight eggs, 

Eight tablespoonsful flour, , 
One quart milk. 
Steam it for two hours. Sauce. 



Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak a teacupful of tapioca in three and a half cups- 
ful of boiling water and two spoonsful of white sugar ; 
keep it in a warm place for three hours ; fill a two 
quart pudding dish three-fourths full of rich, ripe tart 
apples, peeled and quartered; pour the tapioca over 
the apples, and add half a teacupful of cold milk to 
brown the tapioca. Bake an hour. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 257 



Sago Pudding. 

Pick over and wash a teacupful of sago, pour on 
nearly a quart of boiling water; add a half teacupful 
sugar, and a little milk if preferred, brown; when 
cold, pour it over the apples, or mix the two together 
in a pudding dish and bake an hour. 



Blanc Mange and Fruit Pudding. 

Boil for a few moments six spoonsful of dissolved 
corn starch in a quart of boiling water; pour it im- 
mediately over a quart of ripe peaches, previously 
peeled and quartered and placed in a dish with sugar 
sprinkled over them. To be eaten cold. Instead of 
peaches, mellow pears, apples or stewed quinces, 
ripe plums, cherries, marmalade or jam may be 
used. Instead of corn starch, five spoonsful of fine 
Hour, or, still better, graham flour, with, or without, 
an egg, may be substituted. 

Sponge Pudding. 

One-quarter of a pound of flour, the same of sugar ; 
boil with one quart of milk to a thick batter; after it 
is boiled add one-quarter of pound butter to it, mix 
well; then divide twelve eggs, mix the yelks in the 
batter ; beat the whites to a stiff froth ; then mix the 
whole together. Put it in a pan, and set the pan in 
which you bake it in another pan with some water, 
and bake it in a hot oven. To be eaten with liquid 
sauce. 



258 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Snow Pudding (Splendid.) 

Half ounce of gelatine, 

One pint of boiling water, 

Three-quarters of pound white sugar, 

The juice of two lemons. 

After it is thoroughly dissolved, strain as soon as it 
begins to thicken, add the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs ; beat it for half an hour and set it on the ice 
after putting it in a mould. Make a rich custard ; 
flavor with lemon rind grated. Send to the table in 
the middle of the custard. 

Hice Pudding. 

Wash thoroughly a teacupful of best rice ; add half 
a cupful of white sugar, a quart of water and the 
same of milk. Bake slowly four hours, stirring occa- 
sionally, except the last hour. A cupful of raisins is 
an improvement. 

Sweet Potato Custard. 

One pound potatoes mashed and sifted fine, 
Half pound sugar, 
A small cupful of cream, 
One-fourth pound butter, 
Four eggs, 

Nutmeg and lemon to suit the taste. 
If you have no cream put half a pound of butter. 
This makes two large custards. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 259 

Lemon Puddiag. 

Take four ounces of butter, rnelt and pour it on four 
ounces of powdered loaf sugar; add the juice of a 
large lemon with the rind, grated, and the yelks of six 
eggs. Line the dish with paste, bake it half an hour. 

Eve's Pudding. 

Grate three-fourths of a pound of stale bread and 
mix it with three-fourths of a pound fine suet, the 
same quantity of chopped apples and dried currants, 
five eggs, and the rind of a lemon ; put it into a mould 
and boil it three hours ; serve it with sweet sauce. 



Farina Pudding. 

Sprinkle two-thirds of a teacupful of farina slowly 
into a quart of boiling water; add half a teacupiul of 
white sugar and a cupful of milk ; mix thoroughly 
and pour into a pudding dish, in which a quart and a 
half of nice tart apples, peeled and quartered, have 
been put, or mix the apples and farina together. Two 
teacupsful of pitted raisins, previously stewed, may 
be substituted for the apples. Bake one hour. 



Apple Custard. 

Peel, quarter and bake rich, tart apples, or stew 
them slowly in a very little water, fill a pudding dish 
two-thirds full. "When cold pour over a custard by 
stirring into a quart of boiling milk a tablespoonful of 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



flour; wet with a little milk two spoonsful of white 
sugar and two eggs. Flavor with lemon. Bake in a 
quick oven. To be eaten cold. 



Rice and Apple Pudding. 

Pick over and wash a teacupful of best rice, steam 
it until tender in two cupsful of cold water ; spread it 
over a quart or three pints of good ripe apples, quar- 
tered ; pour over one 01 two cupsful milk if preferred, 
or omit the milk, and add a little water to the apples. 
Half a cupful of white sugar may be added at the 
table, if preferred. 

Cream Pudding. 

Beat up the yelks of four eggs and two whites, 
One pint of cream, 
Two ounces of clarified butter, 
One spoonful flour, 
A little grated nutmeg, 
Salt and sugar. 
Beat till smooth. Bake it in buttered cups or paste. 



An Excellent Pudding. 

One pint and a half of milk, 

Two eggs, 

One small tablespoonful flour. 

Mix the flour with cold milk to the consistence of 
thick cream ; boil the rest of the milk and pour boil- 
ing hot upon the flour, stirring all the time ; add a salt- 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 261 

spoonful of salt; sugar to your taste, and when cool, 
two eggs well-beaten. Have ready a buttered dish, 
pour the whole into it; grate lemon peel or nutmeg 
over it, and bake thirty-live or forty minutes. It 
should be out of the oven fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing. It is delicious to eat cold with jam, tart, or fruit 
pie. 

Plain Boiled Pudding. 

Two teacupsful sweet milk, 

One cupful sour cream, 

Two well-beaten eggs, 

A small teaspoonful soda, 

A little salt, 

Flour enough to make a batter about as for 

griddle cakes, . 

One teacupful fruit, raisins or currants. 
Pour the whole into a mould with a close cover and 
boil two hours. Serve with sauce to suit the taste. 



Orange Pudding. 

Make a light paste and roll it to the extent you re- 
quire it. Take your oranges, slice them with the 
rinds on, removing carefully the pips or seeds from 
the pulp. Place a layer of fruit, well sugared, within 
one side of the paste and turn it over the fruit, and re- 
peat the same course until the whole of the slices are 
disposed of. Fold the paste up at each end, so as to 
secure the syrup. Boil it in a pudding cloth. It con- 
stitutes, in some families, a nursery luxury. 



262 ILLINOIS OOOK BOOK. 

I 

Apple Cream. 

Peel and core five large apples, boil in a little water 
till soft enough to press through a sieve; sweeten, 
and beat with them the beaten whites of three eggs. 
Serve it with cream poured around it. 



Cranberry Holl. 

Stew a quart of cranberries in just enough water to 
keep them from burning ; make it very sweet ; strain 
it through a colander, and set it away to cool ; when 
quite cold make a paste as for apple pudding, spread 
the cranberries about an inch thick; roll it up in a 
floured cloth, and tie it close at the ends. Boil it two 
hours, and serve it with sweet sauce. Stewed apples, 
or any other kind of fruit may be made in the same 
way. 

Bread Pudding. 

Take white light bread, cut in thin slices ; put into 
a pudding dish a layer of any sort of preserves, then 
a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost 
full Pour over all a pint of warm milk, in which 
four beaten eggs have been mixed; cover the mould 
with a piece of linen, place it in a saucepan with a 
little boiling water. Let it boil twenty minutes, and 
serve with pudding sauce. 



Apple and Paste Pudding in Basin. 

Make one pound of paste, roll it a quarter of an inch 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 263 

thick, lay some in a bowl ; fill it with apples cut in 
quarters, add two cloves, two ounces of sugar, a little 
butter; put another piece of paste on the top, and join 
the edge nicely ; tie it in a cloth and boil. It can be 
gerved up either in the basin or turned out. Do not 
open the top to put more sugar in, as it spoils the 
flavor and makes it heavy. All fruit puddings may 
be done the same way. 

Lemon Cream. 

( MRS. DR. GIBSON. ) 

Pare four lemons thin, soak the rinds twelve hours 
in half a pint of cold water ; then add the juice of the 
lemons and half a pint more of cold water ; beat to a 
froth the whites of eight eggs, yelks of three; strain 
lemon juice and water, mix it with the eggs ; set the 
whole on a few coals ; sweeten it with powdered white 
sugar ; stir till it grows thick ; take it from the fire, 
stir till cold. Serve in glasses. 



Meringue Rice Pudding. 

Take a teacupful of rice to one pint of water, when 
the rice is boiled dry add one pint of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and five eggs. Beat the 
yelks and grated rind of a lemon, and mix with the 
rice. Butter a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake 
lightly. Beat the whites to a stiff froth; add a cup of 
sugar and the juice of a lemon. When the pudding 
is nearly done, spread on this frosting, and bake in a 
slow oven till the top is light brown. 



264 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Light Dough Dumplings. 

One pound of raised dough, make it into small balls 
the size of eggs; boil in plenty of water, and serve 
with butter and sugar, or with sauce. Two ounces of 
chopped suet added to the above, or, to vary the 
flavor, add a few currants, a little sugar, grated nut- 
meg or lemon peel. 

Charlotte Itusse. 

One pint cream, well-beaten; a gill and a half of 
wine, four eggs, yelks and whites beaten separately. 
Beat five tablespoonsful sugar with the yelks, half a 
pint of milk, and half an ounce isinglass or gelatine 
simmered together till the gelatine is dissolved. Then 
mix with this, first the yelks, then the white? of the 
esrffs, then the cream, and set it aside to stiffen a little. 

oo " " 

When it is cool, pour it into a mould which you have 
previously lined with sponge cake, and when it is 
stiff, put it on a plate and grate sugar over the top. 



Snow Cream. 

( MRS. HAKRIMAN. ) 

One quart cream. 

Whites of three eggs cut into a stiff froth, 
. Four spoonsful sweet wine, 
Sugar to your taste, 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk; fast as the 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 265 

froth foams, take it off and lay it in dishes ; it will not 
return to the liquid state even if kept several days. 



Potato Pudding. 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed, 
A piece of butter the size of an egg, 
A little salt. 

Roll out with a little flour, make a layer of this 
crust, then a layer of apples. Steam one hour. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Two eggs, 

Two cupsful sugar, 

One cupful butter, 

One glass of wine. 

Beat all well together till creamy, and set over the 
fire a few minutes to scald through once, or set it in 
the tea kettle top to heat through. 

Velvet Cream. 

To a pint of cream put a very little sugar ; keep 
stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved ; then 
take it off, but keep on stirring it till it is milk warm, 
after which pour it through a fine colander into a dish 
containing three spoonsful of lemon or orange juice, a 
little grated peel and fruit marmalade chopped fine, 
two spoonsful white wine. This should be prepared 
the evening before it is wanted. 
21 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Transparent Pudding. 

Beat eight eggs very well ; put them into a stewpan 
with half a pound of sugar pounded tine, the same 
quantity of butter, and some grated nutmeg ; set it on 
the tire and keep stirring it till it thickens, then set it 
in a basin to cool ; put a rich puff-paste round the edge 
of the dish; pour in your pudding and bake it in a 
moderate oven. It will beat light and clear. You 
may add candied orange, or citron, if preferred. 



Apple Hall, or Apple Pudding. 

Make a paste with one-fourth of a pound of butter 
to one pound of flour mixed with water, not very stiff. 
Peel and slice rather thick tart apples ; roll the paste 
very thin, as the bottom crust of a pie ; spread the 
apples on a crust, so as to cover it; dredge on a little 
flour; roll it as tight as possible, cut the ends even 
and put it in the steamer, or wrap it in a thick cloth 
and boil it, which will take one hour steady cooking. 
Serve with butter and sugar ; cut in thin slices from 
the end when serving. 

Soda Pudding. 

(MRS. N. v. HUNT.) : 
One pint sifted flour, 
One cupful sugar, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 267 

Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 

One egg, 

Two tablespoonsful melted butter, mixed while 

warm. 
Bake twenty minutes. Served with wine sauce. 

Soufflee Pudding. 

Two ounces sugar, 

Four ounces flour, 

Two ounces fresh butter, melted, 

Yelks of three eggs, well-beaten, also the 

whites, beaten separately. 
A tablespoonful of orange juice. 
Beat the whole together; strain it into a. pie dish, 
which must be tilled only half full, and bake in a 
quick, sharp oven for half an hour. 



Orange Marmalade Pudding. 

' Quarter of a pound marmalade, chopped fine, 
Two ounces of butter, melted or creamed, 
Two ounces white sugar, sifted, 
Two eggs, well-beaten and strained, 
One pint of milk. 

Beat all these ingredients together with the milk; 
then crumble sponge cake into it; line a dish, at the 
edge only, with puff paste, and bake an hour. 



Nursery Pudding. 

Slice some white bread without crust, pour scalding 



268 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

milk upon it; let it stand till well soaked; then beat 
well with four eggs, a little sugar and grated nutmeg. 
Bake in small cups half filled. 



Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Line the edge of a dish with paste; put thin slices 
of bread and butter at the bottom of it, and a layer 
of currants on them, and so fill the dish ; then pour 
over some new milk mixed with three eggs and flavor- 
ing. Let it stand to soak a couple of hours, and then 
bake. 

Brown Charlotte Pudding. 

Butter a pudding mould well, and line it with thin 
slices of bread and butter ; these slices must be cut 
neatly, and the crust at the edges removed ; take some 
good baking apples and cut them as for dumplings ; fill 
the mould with them, putting in between the quarters 
some slices of candied lemon peel, a little grated nut- 
meg and some sugar. Cover it with bread on which 
there is plenty of butter ; put a small plate on the top 
of the mould, and bake three hours. 

Plum Pudding (Plain.} 

Half a pound of beef suet, chopped fine. 
One pound stoned raisins, rubbed in noar,, 
Half a pint grated bread crumbs, 
One heaped tablespoonful of flour., 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 269 

Half-pint boiling milk, 
Four eggs. 
Mix all well together and steam three hours. Sauce. 

Molasses Pudding. 

Sift a large quart of Indian meal, simmer over the 
fire one quart of milk, and stir into it while hot one 
pint West Indian molasses ; mix into this, while warm, 
the Indian meal ; add one large spoonful ground gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon; beat this 
thoroughly, as the lightness of the pudding depends 
on it. If the batter seems too thin, add a little meal ; 
if too thick, a little more molasses. Steam it for 
three hoars. Sauce. 



Bread Pudding. 

Crumble enough stale bread to fill a bowl ; boil one 
pint of milk with a stick of cinnamon in it; pour the 
boiling milk over the bread, three tablespoonsful sugar, 
two tablespoon sful butter, four well-beaten eggs, ad- 
ded when the mixture is lukewarm; juice and grated 
rind of a lemon, raisins, or not, as you prefer. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Sauce. 



Cracker Fruit Pudding. 

Six crackers, powdered fine, 
One quart boiling milk, 
One tablespoonful flour, 
One cupful brown sugar, 



270 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Six eggs, 

Eaisins and spices to taste. 
To be eaten with sauce. 

Suet Pudding. 

One coffee cupful chopped suet, 

One coffeecnpful raisins, 

One coffeecupful molasses, 

One coffeecupful water, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

Flour enough to make a thick batter, 

Cloves and cinnamon to taste. 



Holy Poly. 

Make a crust like soda biscuit ; that is, put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg to one quart of flour, two 
teaspoonsful cream tartar, and one even-full teaspoon 
soda; milk enough to make a paste that will roll out. 
Into this when rolled out, put any sort of fruit, fresh 
or preserved ; fold the paste together, so the fruit will 
not run out, and steam one hour. Sauce. 

Charlotte Itusse. 

( M'FEKSON. ) 
Half gallon cream, 
One pound white sugar, 
One ounce gelatine, 
Half pint madeira wine, 
Flavor with vanilla. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 271 

Soak the gelatine in part of the cream ; dissolve 
sugar and gelatine in one pint of cream and bring to 
a boil ; strain when cool enough, but not congealed ; 
add to balance of cream, which must be previously 
beat up to a light froth; then beat all together until 
quite light, and set off to congeal according to fancy. 
The cream should be set on ice several hours before 
you wish to use it, as it whips much easier. 

A Soiled English Plum Pudding. 

One pound currants, 

One pound stoned raisins, dredged with flour, 

Half pound beef suet, chopped fine, 

One pound bread crumbs, 

Quarter of a pound citron, 

Eight eggs, 

A teaspoonful salt, 

Half pint milk, 

One gill of wine, 

A heaping coffeecupful of sugar, 

Mace and nutmeg to your taste. 
Eaten with sauce of butter, sugar and wine. It re 
quires six or seven hours to boil, and must be turned 
over several times. In these puddings cut the whites 
to a stiff froth. 

Suet Pudding. 

( MOLLIE WOHLGEMUTH. ) 

Half pound beef suet, 
Half teaspoonful salt, 



272 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Half pound pared and chopped apples, 

Half pound sugar, 

Half pound flour, 

Half pound stoned raisins dredged with flour, 

Five eggs, 

A grated nutmeg, 

A glassful of brandy. 



Lemon Apple Dumpling. 

Nine tablespoonsful of apples, either stewed or 

grated, 

One lemon, grated peel, pulp and juice, 
Too-thirds of a cupful butter, 
Three eggs, 
Sugar to taste. 
Mix and bake with or without upper crust. 



English Plum Pudding. 

Quarter pound suet, chopped fine, 

Half pound bread crumbs, 

Half pound stoned raisins, wet and dredged with 
flour, 

Half pound currants, 

Half pound sugar, 

Three ounces citron, 

Milk and six eggs. 

Pour enough scalded milk on the bread crumbs to 
swell them ; when cold, add the other ingredients ; if 
it is too stiff, thin it with milk ; if too thin, add more 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 273 



bread crumbs ; then add two grated nutmegs, a table- 
spoonful of mace and cinnamon, half a gill of brandy 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Boil two hours. 

The Queen of Puddings. 

One pint bread crumbs, 

One quart milk, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

Yelks of four eggs, 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

Beat yelks, sugar and lemon together, and stir in 
the crumbs ; bake till a light brown color. When the 
pudding is done, beat the whites of these four eggs to 
a stiff froth with four tablespoonsful sugar. Spread 
currant jelly over the top of the pudding, then spread 
over this the beaten whites of eggs, and set it in the 
oven long enough to brown it. Serve cold. 



Sallie's Meringue Pudding. 

Put a teacupful of rice to one pint of water. When 
the water is boiled out, add one pint of milk, a piece of 
butter size of an egg, and yelks of three eggs. Beat 
yelks into the grated rind of one lemon and mix with 
the rice. Butter a pudding dish, and pour in the mix- 
ture and bake lightly. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with one teacupful of sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon. When the pudding is nearly done, spread on 
the frosting, and bake it a light brown in a slow oven. 



274 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Apple Potato Pudding. 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed tine, 
Add a little salt, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Roll this out with a little flour, enough to make a 
good pastry crust. This is for the outside of the 
dumpling, instead of the ordinary pastry. Into this 
crust put peeled and chopped apples. Roll up like 
any apple dumpling and steam one hour. Eat hot 
with liquid sauce. 

A Welsh Pudding. 

Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently ; beat 
with it the yelks of eight and whites of four eggs ; 
mix in six ounces of loaf sugar and the rind of a lemon 
grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and 
pour the above in, and nicely bake it. 

, Baked Fruit Pudding. 

One coffeecupful raisins, chopped tine, 
Four apples, chopped fine, 
One coffeecupful sugar, 
One coffeecupful flour, 
One coffeecupful sweet milk, 
Half coffeecupful butter, 
Two eggs, 
Nutmeg to taste. 

Bake one hour. To be eaten with butter and sugar 
sauce. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 275 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

Pick and stone half a pound Malaga raisins, wash 
and dry the same quantity of cun ants ; chop, not too 
tine, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, put it in 
a convenient basin, with six ounces of sugar, two 
ounces candied peel sliced, three ounces of flour, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, four 
eggs, a gill of water, or perhaps a little more, to form 
a nice consistence ; butter a mould, put a piece of 
white paper over the top and round the sides, tie it in 
a cloth ; boil for four hours in plenty of water ; when 
done, remove the cloth, turn it out of the mould, take 
the paper off the sides and top, and serve with sweet 
sauce round ; it may also be boiled in a cloth. 



Steam Pudding. 

Slice a nice dish of bread in squares ; then put a 
layer of fruit and bread; make a nice custard and 
pour over the whole and steam it. 



Jersey Pudding. 

Two quarts of milk, 

One cupful rice, 

One cupful sugar, 

One teaspoonful salt. 

Wash the rice and add it to the milk cold, and 
bake. The secret of having it nice consists in its be- 
ing taken out of the oven before the milk is all dried 



276 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

away. It should be creamy in consistency, and when 
cool it is better than a pudding made with eggs, as 
there is no watery whey. Essence of lemon or raisins 
are an improvement; add a lump of butter. Bake 
slowly about an hour and a half. 

Steam Pudding. 

Dry bread, as much as you may think necessary, 
soaked enough to crumb easy 

Oneteacupful currants, 

One teacupful chopped suet, 

One teacupful and a half brown sugar, 

Four eggs, 

Spices to the taste. 
Steam three hours. Serv^e with brandy sauce. 



Sago Pudding. 

One quart milk, 
One cupful sago, 
Eight apples, sliced thin, 
Two slices of bread grated, 
Flavor with lemon. 
Mix well together and bake. 



Suet Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a pound suet, 
Half a loaf of bread, grated, 
Six eggs, 
One cupful sour milk, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 277 

Half pound raisins, chopped, 
Half pound currants, 
One cupful molasses, 
Half pound brown sugar, 
Steam three hours. Serve with sauce. 



Suet Pudding. 

Half pound suet, 
Six eggs, 

Two cupsful sour milk, 
One cupful and a half molasses, 
Two cupsful brown sugar, 
Four pints flour, 
Flavor with nutmeg. 

Steam an hour and a half; have the water boiling 
before you put it on. 

Lemon Pudding. 

( HRS. DR. PRICE, FRANKFORT, KT. ) 

Seven eggs, 

Three teacupsful sugar, 

Three lemons. 

Take half the whites to beat separately for an icing, 
which is made with one cupful of white sugar. Beat 
the yelks and sugar together until light ; squeeze the 
juice from the lemons into it, and grate the yellow off 
the peel ; add the largest part of a nutmeg, beat all to- 
gether. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in. 
Make a rich paste, roll thin, and pour one-third into 



278 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

each pan. Bake till thoroughly cooked, then pour the 
icing over each one, and brown it nicely. 



Kentucky Pudding. 

Four eggs, 

One teacupful sugar, 

One quart sweat milk, boiled, 

One pint light bread crumbs, 

One teacupful butter. 

Bake and let it get cold ; then spread jelly over it. 
Make a meringue of 

The whites of four eggs, 

Four tablespoonsful ol sugar, 

Juice of one lemon. 

Pour this on the top of the jelly, and set it into the 
oven and let it bake a light brown. To be eaten cold. 



Nameless Pudding. 

Oue cupful butter, 
Three cupsful sugar, 
Five cupsful flour, 
One cupful milk, 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar, 
One teaspoonful soda, 
Five eggs, 

One wine glassful of brandy, 
Half a grated nutmeg. 

Rub the butter, sugar, flour and cream tartar to- 
gether well; then add the milk and yelks of eggs; 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 279 

beat it ten minutes ; then add the soda dissolved in 
boiling water and the whites of the eggs. Bake an 
hour in a moderate oven. 



Soiled Pudding. 

Half a cupful chopped beef suet, 
One cupful raisins, 
Two cupsful flour, 
One cupful milk, 
One cupful molasses, 
One teaspoonful soda. 
Tie in a floured bag and boil hard two hours. 
with rich sauce. 



Meringue Itice Pudding. 

Take a teacupful of rice to one pint of water ; when 
the rice is boiled dry add one pint milk, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, and five eggs. Beat the yelks and 
grated rind of a lemon and mix with the rice. Butter 
a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake lightly. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth; add a cupful of sugar and 
the juice of a lemon. When the pudding is nearly 
done, spread on this frosting, and bake in a slow oven 
till the top is light brown. 

Potato Pudding. 

Six large potatoes boiled and mashed, 
A piece of butter the size of an egg, 
A little salt. 



280 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Roll out with a little flour ; make a layer of this 
crust; then a layer of apples. Steam one hour. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

Take one pint of pumpkin that has been stewed soft 
and pressed through a colander; melt in half a pint of 
warm milk a quarter of a pound of butter and the 
same quantity of sugar, stirring them well together; 
one pint of rich cream will be better than milk and 
butter; beat eight eggs very light, and add them 
gradually to the other ingredients alternately with the 
pumpkin; then stir in a wineglassful of rose water 
and two glassesful of wine, mixed together, a large 
teaspoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed, 
and a grated nutmeg. Having stirred the whole very 
hard, put it into a buttered dish, and bake it three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Fig Pudding. 

Procure one pound of good flgs, and chop them 
very fine, and also a quarter pound of suet, likewise 
chopped as fine as possible; dust them both with a 
little flour as you proceed it helps to bind the pud- 
ding together; then take one pound of fine bread 
crumbs, and not quite a quarter pound of sugar ; beat 
two eggs in a teacupful of milk, and mix all well to- 
gether. Boil four hours. If you choose, serve it with 
wine or brandy sauce, and ornament it with blanched 
almonds. Simply cooked, however, it is better where 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 281 

there are children, with whom it is generally a favor- 
ite. We forgot to say, flavor with a little allspice or 
nutmeg, as you like ; but add the spice before the milk 
and eggs. 

Jelly Pudding. 

(MRS. PRICE, KY. ) 
One glassful of jelly, 
Three eggs, well-beaten, 
The white of one egg, 
One tablespoonful butter. 

Beat until very light. Bake this with a paste. 
Make a meringue of the whites ; spread over the top, 
and let it lightly brown. 

Canary Pudding. 

Fill a pudding dish half full of bread crumbs; pour 
over it one quart milk; beat the yelks of seven eggs 
well, stir into them nearly a pint of milk ; beat the 
whites of three eggs and stir into it, pour this over 
the bread crumbs. Bake this. Of the four remaining 
whites make an icing, pour over the pudding after it is 
baked; replace in the stove to brown a light brown. 
Serve hot, with sauce either boiled or cold. 



Macaroni Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a pound of macaroni, boil it 

till quite soft, 
Half a pound of sugar, 

22 



282 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Quarter of a pound of currants, 
Juice of one lemon. 

Bake till browned. A simple mode of cooking 
macaroni, or tapioca, is to sweeten and boil till soft ; 
add the juice of a lemon, and turn into a mould till 
cool. 



Cream Pudding. 

Beat up four eggs a little, strain them ; add a tea- 
cupful of tine white sugar, the rind and juice of a 
lemon, and a pint of cream. Line a pudding dish with 
puff paste ; put in the above. Bake half an hour. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

(MBS. FITZ SIMMONS. ) 

One quart sweet milk, 

One teaspoonful soda, 

One teaspoonful cream tartar, 

Three tablespoon sful chopped suet, 

Twelve tablespoon sful corn meal, 

One cupful molasses, 

Ginger and spice to suit the taste. 
Heat the milk and scald the meal ; if the milk is 
sour; mix it all cold, and omit the cream tartar. 
Boiled sauce. 



Cottage Pudding. 

( MBS. FITZSIMMONS. ) 

Five tablespoonsful flour, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 283 

Five eggs, 

One pint sweet milk, 
One small teaspoonful baking powder. 
Butter and sugar sauce. Bake in a quick oven. 



Raisin Pudding. 

Soak two ounces of raisins in enough brandy to 
cover them ; take 

Half pound flour, 

Half pound chopped suet, 

A dessertspoonful of ground ginger, 

Two eggs, 

Four ounces white sugar, 

Enough milk to make it a pretty light paste. Add 
the raisins and brandy ; put it into a cloth or basin ; 
boil it for two hours, and serve with what pudding 
sauce you please. 

Orange Pudding. 

( MRS. PRICE, KY. ) 

Slice sponge cake thin; peel and slice oranges, free- 
ing them of the seed ; sprinkle sugar over them a 
short time before using them. Lay in a pie plate 
alternate layers of cake and oranges. Make a mer- 
ingue and put over the top, and set it in the oven to 
brown. For sauce 

Two teacupsful white sugar, 

A piece of butter the size of an egg, 



284 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Enough water to dissolve the sugar, 
A few strips of orange peel. 
Let it boil to a thick syrup. 



Frozen Pudding. 

( MRS. DR. PRICE, KY. ) 

Line the freezer with sliced sponge cake ; then place 
a layer of sponge cake spread with cherry or any acid 
preserves, repeating till the freezer is half full. Pour 
upon this a custard made of 

Two quarts rich cream, 

The yelks of five eggs, 

One pint white sugar. 

Boil well, stirring constantly until it thickens 
Flavor with vanilla. Let it cool, and pour in the 
freezer over the cake, and freeze well. Before using 
place a cloth wrung out of hot water around the 
freezer for a few moments, and it will turn out the 
shape of the freezer. 

Almond Pudding. 

A large teacupful of finely chopped beef suet, 
One teacupful milk, 
Four ounces bread crumbs, 
Four ounces well-cleaned currants, 
Two ounces almonds, 
Half-pound well-stoned raisins, 
Three well-beaten eggs, and the whites of two, 
others, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 285 

Sugar to taste, 

Nutmeg and cinnamon, 

A small glass Jamaica rum. 

Butter a shape and place part of the raisins neatly 
in rows ; blanch the almonds, reserve the half of them 
to be placed in rows between the raisins, just before 
serving. Mix all the other ingredients well together. 
Put in the shape and boil three hours. 



Citron Pudding. 

Beat the yelks of three eggs with two tablespoon s- 
ful of flour; when light, add one pint boiling milk, and 
a quarter of a pound citron, cut fine ; put in buttered 
cups and bake half an hour in a quick oven; turn 
them out and serve with liquid sauce. 

Blanc Mange. 

Boil a pint of cream and a quart of milk together; 
clarify an ounce and a half of isinglass and stir it into 
the cream ; make it sweet with white sugar, and flavor 
with lemon, rose or vanilla. Let it boil up once, stir- 
ring it well. Have ready some earthen or any kind of 
moulds, dipped in cold water. When cold, turn them 
out and serve with sweetened cream. Jelly is very 
nice to eat with blanc mange. 



Ribbon Blanc Mange. 

Make the same as the above receipt. Have one 
mould filled with white, and the other tilled with pink. 



286 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Use the same coloring as for the white and pink cake; 
then, when cold, turn them out and cut an inch thick 
of the white, then of the pink, and put one on the 
other; the two moulds, of course, will make two dishes. 
This is very pretty for an evening company. 

Dried Peach Dumplings. 

Cook dried peaches till very tender, sweeten while 
cooking. When done, and cold, flavor to suit the 
taste. Mash them fine with the hand, and spread on a 
nice crust. Roll and steam. 



Dried Apple Dumplings 

Are made in the same manner. 

Egg Sauce for Puddings. 

(MBS. N. v. HUNT.) -. , 

One cupful sugar, 
Half cupful butter, 
One glassful sherry wine, 
One egg, beat white and yelk separately. 
Then beat all together and set it over a boiling tea- 
kettle. Do not stir it after it has been set on the tea- 
kettle. Let it heat through. 



Green Apple Dumplings. 

Make a dough as you would for soda biscuit, roll 
into pieces large enough to hold an apple, after it has 






ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 287 

been peeled and oored; roll an apple in each piece, 
and secure the crust with flour, that it will not burst 
open ; grease a steamer well and put your dumplings in 
and set them over a pot of boiling water. Be sure, in 
boiling or steaming anything, to always have a kettle 
kept full of boiling water to add as the other boils 
away. Cold water will check the steam and make the 
dumplings heavy. 



Suet Pudding. 

One cupful chopped suet, 
One cupful molasses, 
One pint fruit, 
One cupful sweet milk, 
One teaspoonful soda mixed in molasses, 
Four cupsful flour, 
Spice to suit the taste. 
Steam three hours. Any kind of sauce. 



Poor Man's Pudding. 

One pint sweet milk, 
Four eggs, 

Two tablespoonsful flour, 
A little salt. 



Potato Pudding. 

One pound sugar, 

Half a pound butter, 

Three-quarters of a pound mashed potatoes, 



288 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Nine eggs, 
Spices to the taste, 
Half pint cream. 



Pudding. 

Four cupsful bread, after il is soaked in milk, 
Sugar to the taste, 
One tablespoonful butter, 
One pint of fruit of any kind, 
Three eggs, 
One handful of flour. 
Boil two hours. ISTo soda. 



Meringues. 

i 

Whites of three eggs, 
One coffeecupful of coffee sugar, 
Flavor with lemon. 

Drop on buttered paper or tins. Set in the stove 
and slightly brown. 

French Pudding. 

Break three eggs into a bowl without separating 
them; add one teacupful powdered sugar, and beat 
them light; add half a cupful flour with one tea- 
spoonful and half baking powder, and a little water. 
Spread on jelly or sweetmeats of any kind when cool, 
and over this the whites of two eggs beaten up with 
two tablespoonsful of sugar and a little lemon. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 289 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Pare and core six large apples, fill them with sugar; 
pour over them one teacupful of tapioca, previously 
soaked in cold water for two hours ; season with lemon 
or cinnamon ; add more sugar and a little pinch of salt ; 
place the apples in a dish and fill around them with 
water. Bake one hour. Eat with cream. 



Cocoanut Pudding. 

Half pound sugar, 

Half pound butter, 

Half a cocoanut, 

Six eggs, whites only, 

Two tablespoonsful brandy. 

Pare oif the brown skin of the nut, wash and grate 
it. Cream the butter and sugar; whip the eggs stiff; 
then stir, but not beat, the whole together. Bake 
slowly. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Six large tart apples, 

One teacupful white sugar, 

One teacupful butter or thick sweet cream, 

Six eggs, 

The grated peel of one lemon and the juice of 

the same. 

Grate the apples after paring and coring them ; stir 
sugar and butter as for cake ; then add the other in- 
gredients, and bake in a rich paste ; some prefer nut- 



290 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

meg to lemon, in such cases the taste must be con- 
sulted. It is much better to grate, than to stew apples 
for this and all puddings and pies. 

__ 

Transparent Pudding. 

One tumblerful of sugar, 

One tumblerful butter, 

Eight eggs, omitting the whites of five. 
Mix sugar and butter, then stir in the eggs. The 
above receipt, with the addition of one grated lemon 
is an excellent lemon pudding; or, with jelly, is jelly 
pudding. 

Potato Pudding. 

One pound sugar, 

Half pound bufter, 

Three-quarters of a pound mashed potatoes, 

Nine eggs, 

Spice to suit the taste, 

Half pint cream. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add yelks of eggs, 
then beat all together till very light ; add potatoes and 
mix well; then whites beaten stiff, and then cream. 
Bake or steam. 

Potato Pudding. 

(MRS. DR. PRICE. KT.) 

One pound of potatoes, after they are pressed 
through a sieve, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 291 

Half pound butter, 

Eight eggs, 

One nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and potatoes together ; the yelks of 
the eggs and sugar together; add in small quantiites of 
the potato and butter; then add the whites, well- 
beaten, and a wineglassful of whisky; flavored with 
orange peel. Make a rich paste. Place in a deep 
pudding dish and bake. Serve hot, with citron, or 
other kind of preserves, if liked, or with anv of the 
pudding sauces preferred. 



Boiled Loaf. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over four little rolls of 
bread; cover them up, turning them occasionally till 
saturated with the milk; flour a pudding cloth and tie 
them tight, and boil an hour; be careful in turning 
them out. Eat with hot sauce. A nice pudding for 
children. 



Tapioca for Puddings 

(MKS. BURK.) 

Should be put into a moderate oven and let dry 
thoroughly. Then grind in a coffee mill, the mill can 
be cleaned by grinding corn meal through it. This 
makes a cheap and nutricious dessert, and is very nice 
cold for tea, eaten with cream. Take belleflower or 
other good cooking apples, peel and core them, place 
them in a pudding pan, and take three or four table- 






1 

292 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

spoonsful of the ground tapioca, soaked first in water 
and sweetened ; pour this over the apples with suf- 
ficient water to cover them, Bake slowly. Take the 
apples out and place them in the dish in which they 
are to be served, and then pour the tapioca over them. 

Souffle Pudding. 

Boil one pound of nice prunes in enough water to 
cover them ; when soft, sweeten them a little ; pour 
them in a pudding dish. Prepare a maringue of whites 
of eggs beaten with sugar, and spread over them. 
Set in the stove and brown lightly. 



Sutherland Pudding. 

Ten eggs, 

One quart of milk, 

Five tablespoon sful of flour. 

Beat the whites and yelks separately ; stir the flour 
into the yelks of the eggs ; then add one-half of the 
milk; then a little salt, then the whites of the eggs 
and the remainder of the milk. Bake half an hour. 



Cottage Pudding, (Eaten Cold.) 

( MKS. OKAY. ) 

One pint bread crumbs, grated, 
One teacupful sugar, 
One quart sweet milk, 
One tablespoonful butter, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 293 

Four yelks of eggs, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Then bake and let it cool a little. Have the four 
whites beaten stiff with seven tablespoonsful of sugar; 
spread this nicely over the top, and drop fruit or jelly 
on the top of that and return to the oven for a few 
moments. 



JKod Grod, (A Danish Receipt.) 

It is made of fruit juice, arrowroot and cream. 
Take- 
Three pounds and a half of currant juice, 
Three pints of water, 
A good quantity of sugar, 
A flavoring of almond or cinnamon, one ounce 

or one ounce and a half. 

Boil this mixture; when in begins to boil add a 
pound and a quarter of ground rice or one pound of 
sago; boil a quarter of an hour, stirring very often; 
pour out into moulds and leave to cool. Then turn 
out and eat with cream and sugar. The juice of other 
fruits may be used. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Stir one pound of white sugar and a quarter of a 
pound butter to a cream ; take the yelks of twelve 
eggs and the whites of six, and when beaten separ- 
ately and light, add them to the butter and sugar, and 
then put in one pound of grated cocoanut ; lastly put 
in four tablespoonsful of rose water, four of cream 



294 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

and the juiee of two lemons. Bake in puff paste and 
put the other sfx whites, beaten with sugar, over the 
top and let it it brown a very delicate brown. 



Gooseberry Cream. 

Take a quart of gooseberries and boil them very 
quick in enough water to cover them ; stir in half an 
ounce of good butter, and when they become soft, pulp 
them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while it. is hot, 
and then yelks of four eggs. Serve in a dish or in 
glasses. 

To MaJte a Sen's Nest. 

Get large fine eggs, make a hole at one end and 
empty out the egg; fill the shells with blanc mange; 
when stiff and cold take off the shells ; pare the yel- 
low rind from six lemons, boil them in water till ten- 
der, then cut them in strips to resemble straw, and 
preserve them in sugar. Fill a small deep dish half 
full of nice jelly; when it is set, put the strips of 
lemon peel on in the form of a nest, and lay the eggs 
in it. This makes a beautiful dish for an evening 

company. 

i _____ 

A Trifle. 

Place half a pound of maccaroons or Naples biscuits 
at the bottom of a large glass bowl. Pour on them as 
much white wine as will cover and dissolve them. 
Make a rich custard flavored with bitter almonds or 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 295 

peach leaves, and pour on the maccaroous; the custard 
may be either baked or boiled. Then add -a layer of 
marmalade or jam. Take a quart of cream, mix with 
it a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pint of 
white wine, and whip it with rods to a stiff froth, lay- 
ing the froth (as you proceed) on an inverted sieve, 
with a dish under it to catch the cream that drips 
through; which must be saved and whipped over 
again. Instead of rods you may use a little tin churn. 
Pile the frothed cream upon the marmalade in a high 
pyramid. To ornament it, take preserved water- 
melon rinds that has been cut into leaves or flowers, 
split them nicely to make them thinner and lighter. 
Place a circle or wreath of them round the heap of 
frothed cream, interspersing them with spots of stiff 
red currant jelly. Stick on the top of pyramid a sprig 
of real flowers. 



PICKLES. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PICKLING. 



There seems to be such a diversity of opinion in re- 
gard to the use of brass or bell-metal in pickling, that 
one will have to be governed by their own judgment 
and experience a good deal. I have always used brass 
kettles myself, and have never had to suffer from any 
bad effects by so doing. The kettles must be well 
and thoroughly cleaned each time before using, and 
never, (as many direct,) should they be cleaned with 
salt and vinegar, but with good wood ashes and soap, 
or bath-brick, and always kept bright. Vinegar 
should be of the best cider vinegar. Use glass or good 
stone jars in putting away pickles. Always see that 
while in the vinegar, the pickles are well covered. 
Sliced, or chopped pickles of any kind, should always 
have a plate or saucer put down into the jar to keep 
them from spoiling on the top, thus causing many to 
lose the entire jar of pickles. In greening pickles, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 297 

keep them closely covered, that the steam may assist 
in giving them a good color. A little alum helps to 
make them crisp. Too much boiling takes away the 
strength of the vinegar. Cucumbers, melons, and all 
such pickles as require to be put in brine, should, when 
taken out of it, be washed nicely and then put into a 
clean vessel to freshen. The smaller pickles, and such 
as are required for mangos, must be each gathered in 
its season, salted (a day and night are sufficient) and 
dropped into vinegar till time to make and fill the 
mangos. Great care should be taken to have them 
well selected and both young and tender. Chopped 
and sliced pickles must be cut or chopped over night 
and hung in a basket in which a clean cloth has been 
placed in the bottom. Let them drain all night, then 
empty them and spice and mix according to the various 
directions in each receipt. The water must be entirely 
squeezed out of the chopped pickle. After it 
has drained all night, take what you can well hold in 
your hands and squeeze them as dry as you can. 
Your pickles will be all the better for the trouble. If 
the water or juice that is in them after it is chopped is 
let remain, it will certainly spoil the pickle, by weak- 
ening the vinegar. The grated cucumber must be 
done in the same manner. Tomato pickles are very 
insipid unless they are highly seasoned. The curry 
powder receipt, being a mixture of all kinds of spices, 
well-pounded together and sifted, is a splendid addi- 
tion to the sliced and chopped tomato pickles one 
tablespoonful of it to the gallon of pickles. 

23 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



To Pickle Cauliflower. 

Make a strong brine, and after picking over your 
cauliflower and breaking it in such shaped pieces as you 
like, put it in the brine and let it remain twenty four 
hours. Then take them out and heat the brine, and 
pour .it on the pickles scalding hot. Let them re- 
main in the brine till next day. Drain off the brine and 
pour on spiced vinegar ; scaldt he spices in the vinegar, 
but pour it over the pickles cold. 



Martinoes. 

Gather them when they are young and tender. 
Have a weak brine, and after wiping your pickles one 
by one, drop them into this brine and let them remain 
eight or ten days, or make a stronger brine and let 
them remain till they are salt enough to keep. Then 
wash and wipe them dry, and pour spiced, vinegar 
over them. These are a most delicious pickle, and 
persons who are fond of the walnut pickle will not fail 
to like these. They grow wild, but can be cultivated, 
and are worth trying. 

A Fine Cabbage fickle. 

Cut two heads of cabbage fine, on a slaw cutter or 
with a knife ; put in a chopping bowl and chop fine ; 
take six green peppers, two handsful of salt, one 
pound of black mustard seed; mix well together. 
Pack in a jar and pour cold cider vinegar; QTvrer. 
like a little celery seed mixed with it. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 299 



Grape Pickle. 

Grapes made into sweet pickles are very fine. 
They can be made by any of the sweet pickle receipts 
in this book. Those having an abundance of grapes 
will do well to try them. They are very fine. 



Pickled Peaches. 

Have a tub of cold water setting near, and one with 
boiling water with ashes in it; fill a large skimmer 
with peaches and dip them in the ley water; than 
throw them in the cold water, and with a flannel or 
rough cloth rub off the down. Stick four or five 
cloves in each peach and put them in jars. Have 
some boiling vinegar with sugar, cinnamon, allspice 
and nutmeg ; pour over the peaches. Let them set 24 
hours, then heat again, and let them remain another 
24 hours : then put the vinegar on and let it come to a 
boil, and add the peaches ; let all come to a boil to- 
gether ; take out, put in jars and tie closely. 



Peach Mangoes. 

Select large, fine flavored peaches, dip them in soda 
water, to remove the down from them, and with the 
blade of a sharp knife cut out the seed, leaving the 
peach as whole as possible; then have some cabbage 
(the white hard part of the head) chopped fine, and a 
very little onion and a few bits of red pepper pod. 
Spice with mace, cloves, allspice, white mustard seed, 



300 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

(whole,) two nasturtiums in each peach. Fill your 
peaches, and pour vinegar that has been boiled with 
spices in it; keep them well under the vinegar, by 
putting a plate or saucer in the jar. 



Nasturtiums. 

Soak them for a few days in salt and water, as you 
collect them, changing the water every few days; then 
pour off the brine, wipe them and drop them in cold 
vinegar. These are very tine to flavor mangoes, es- 
pecially the peach mango. 

Sweet Cherry fickle. 

( MRS. ILES. ) 

Five pints cherries, one pint vinegar, two pints 
sugar; spiced with cloves, allspice, cinnamon and a 
little pepper. Boil all together one hour. 



Spiced Peach Pickles. 

( MRS. HURST. ) 

Three pounds sugar, three pints vinegar, spiced and 
boiled to a syrup. For a gallon jar of peaches grate 
three nutmegs, one tablespoonful of cloves, one table- 
spoonful allspice and two tablespoonsful cinnamon. 
Put in a portion of the peaches, and scald in the syrup 
till tender; take them out, put them into the jar, and 
put more into the syrup, and so on till you have 
enough to fill the jar; then pour the syrup over the 
peaches. Do not have too hot a fire, or the. syrup will 
boil awav too fast. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 301 

Watermelon Rind fickle. 

Prepare the rinds as you would for preserving; let 
them remain in soda water all night. Take one quart 
cider vinegar and three pounds sugar, let it boil till 
quite thick syrup; then put in your fruit, let it boil till 
they are soft; put them in a jar and pour the syrup 
overboiling; seal them up. Put in a little mace, cin- 
namon and nutmeg, spices make them too dark. 



Sliced Tomato Pickles. 

Take the smoothest large green tomatoes after the 
first good frost, slice them very thin with one-quarter 
onions ; put a clean cloth in a basket and put them in 
it, and hang it up and let it drip all night ; in the 
morning, put them into a large clean pan, and with the 
hands mix them up with cloves, allspice, mace, black 
pepper, and garlic peeled and sliced thin. When well- 
mixed add curry powder till it has a yellow look; then 
put it into your jar; pour over it enough of the best 
cider vinegar to cover it well. It will soon be ready 
for use. 

Chopped Mixed Pickles. 

Take a white, hard head of cabbage, green tomatoes, 
green peppers, celery and onions, chop very fine sep- 
arately, then mix well; put cloves, plenty of ground 
pepper, allspice, mace, garlic, red pepper pods and 
mustard seed; put in a jar and pour boiling vinegar 
over them. 



302 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Red Cabbage Pickle. 

Take the small, deep red cabbage, cut with a slaw 
cutter very fine ; add a very little salt over night ; boil 
a few spices in vinegar, put it over the cabbage cold. 



Cucumber Pickles. 

Make a weak brine of salt and water, boil and pour 
over the cucumbers three mornings in succession; 
fourth morning pour it off, and scald vinegar and pour 
over three mornings in succession ; seventh morning 
scald new vinegar, adding spice, and pour on. In this 
way pickles may be made at any time they are fresh 
gathered, and will be perfectly green. 

To Pickle Oysters. 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get 
in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor 
off, adding to it a dessertspoonful of pepper, two 
blades of mace, a tablespoonful of salt, if the liquor be 
not very salt, and seven of vinegar. Simmer the 
oysters a few minutes in the liquor ; then put them in 
small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and, when 
cold, pour over the oysters ; cover close. 

Pickled Butternuts. 

Gather them the last week in June. Make and 
skim a brine of salt and water, strong enough to bear 
up an egg when it is cold ; pour it on the nuts, and let 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 303 

them lie in it twelve days. Drain them, lay them in 
a jar, and pour over them the best of cider vinegar, 
which has been previously boiled with pepper corns, 
cloves, allspice, white mustard seed, ginger, mace and 
horse radish. This vinegar must be cold when poured 
on; cover close, and keep one year before using. 
Walnuts are pickled in the same way, and the vinegar 
may be used as catsup, for it is very nice. 



JPicMed Mangoes. 

Select young nutmeg melons, not too large, cut them 
in the side ; make a strong brine and let them stay 
nine days, or longer as required. When you are 
ready, take them out, and let them freshen in cold 
well water all night. Have ready, for the tilling, 
young beans, silver onions, radish pods, gherkins, 
small green peppers, small green tomatoes, cloves, all- 
spice, mace, garlic, black pepper, white and black 
mustard seed. The beans small. Pickles and such 
things are hard to procure at one time. It is well to 
get them as they come in season, and throw them in a 
strong brine over night or longer; then green them 
and put the best vinegar on them. Put them in a 
good sized jar, and as you get the other things, they 
can be greened and added. When all is ready take 
them out of the vinegar; first green the melons to be 
tilled, and try to have them all alike. Put a little 
sugar in the vinegar while it is boiling, enough to make 
it a pleasant sweet. Add plenty of pepper and 
spices. 



304 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Chow- Chow. 

Three heads of cabbage, twenty-five peppers, half 
pint of white mustard seed and grated horse radish. 
Cut the cabbage fine, chop the peppers, and put them 
in a jar, then the cabbage, then a little salt, and 
sprinkle a little horse radish and mustard seed over 
the whole, and so on till all the ingredients are in the 
jar. Fill with cold vinegar. To every quart of vinegar 
dissolve two ounces of brown sugar. 



PicMed Onions. 

In the month of September, choose the small white 
round onions, take off the skin, have ready a 
very nice tin stewpan of boiling water, throw in as 
many onions as will cover the top ; as soon as they 
look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as pos- 
sible, and lay them on a clear cloth; cover 
them close with another, and scald some more, and so 
on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or 
glass, or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the 
best vinegar, just hot, but not boiling. When cold, 
cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. 
They must look quite clear. 



PicMed Plums. 

To every quart of plums allow one-half pound of 
sugar and one pint of best cider vinegar. Melt the 
sugar in the vinegar, and put spices of all sorts in a 
fine muslin bag, and boil up with the sugar and 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 305 

vinegar. When the sugar and spiced vinegar boils 
up, put in the plums and give them one good boil. If 
you wish to keep the plums whole, pick them with a 
needle. 



To Pickle Cucumbers and Onions Sliced. 

Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them. 
Next day drain them for five or six hours ; then put 
them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, 
and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be 
thick. Kepeat the boiling vinegar, and stop theni up 
again instantly ; and so on till green ; the last time put 
in pepper. Keep in small stone jars. 



Pickled Eggs. 

Boil them twelve minutes, and throw them into cold 
water to make the shells come off easily. Boil some 
red beets very soft, peel and mash fine, and put them 
with salt, pepper, cloves and nutmegs, into vinegar 
enough to cover the eggs. Put the eggs in a jar, and 
pour the mixture over them. 



Tomato Pickle. 

Eight pounds skinned tomatoes and four of brown 
sugar. Put them in a preserving kettle, and stir often 
to prevent burning. Boil to the thickness of molasses, 
then add one quart of good cider vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful mace, one teaspoonful cloves, and boil five minutes 
longer. 



306 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



To fickle Tomatoes. 



Always use those which are thoroughly ripe The 
small round ones are decidedly the best. Do not prick 
them, as most receipt books direct. Let them lie in 
strong brine three or four days, then put them down 
in layers in your jars, mixing with them small onions 
and pieces of horseradish; then pour on the vinegar 
(cold,) which should be first spiced as for peppers; let 
there be a spice bag to throw into every pot. Cover 
them carefully, and set them by in the cellar for a full 
month before using. 

East India tickles. 

Have ready a white cabbage sliced and the stalks 
removed ; a cauliflower cut into neat branches, leaving 
out the stalk ; sliced cucumbers, sliced carrots, sliced 
beets, all nicked around the edges; button onions, 
string beans, radish pods, cherries, green grapes, nas- 
turtium, capsicum, bell pepper, etc. Sprinkle all these 
with salt ; then put them into a large earthen jar and 
pour scalding salt and water over them. Let them lie 
in the brine for four days, turning them every day. 
Take them out, wash each piece separately in vinegar 
and wipe them on a dry cloth ; let them dry thoroughly. 
To every two quarts vinegar (best cider) put an ounce 
and a half of white ginger root scraped and sliced, 
the same of long peppers, two ounces of peeled shallots 
or little button onions, half an ounce peeled garlic, an 
ounce turmeric and two ounces mustard seed or ground 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 307 

mustard. Let all these ingredients, mixed with the 
vinegar, infuse in a close jar, setting in a warm place 
by the fire. Then, after the vegetables have been 
dried from the brine, put them all into one large stone 
jar and strain the pickle over them. Cork tight. 

Two quarts vinegar, one ounce and a half white ginger 
root scraped and sliced, one ounce and a half long pep- 
pers, two ounces peeled button (silver) onions, half 
ounce peeled garlic, one ounce turmeric and two 
ounce white mustard seed. 



fickle. 

Green tomatoes, cabbage and cucumbers, one pint 
of each ; half pint onions, all chopped fine ; salt well 
and stand over night; strain through a sieve, and add 
pepper, horseradish, white mustard seed and half pint 
sugar. Mix well, fill your jar, and cover with 
vinegar. 

Buck and Breck, (Splendid.) 

One peck green tomatoes, half peck ripe to- 
matoes, twelve onions, twelve peppers, (six red 
and six green,) one large head cabbage; chop 
them all fine; salt heavily; let them drain all 
night ; add two tablespoonsful allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful ground black pepper and one tablespoonful mace. 
Put on one quart vinegar and three pounds brown 
sugar. When boiled, put in your drained tomatoes, 
then skin and slice the ripe tomatoes and put in. 



308 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Boil three hours. When done put in jars and add 
cold vinegar. Stir often while boiling. 



Pickled Peaches. 

Seven pounds peaches, three and a half pounds 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, and spices to the taste. 
Make them whole, and peel them or not, just as you 
prefer. Scald the vinegar and sugar with the spices 
and pour on the peaches while hot. 



Chopped Pickle. 

One large head of cabbage, three of celery and 
twelve onions, chop fine ; salt well and stand twenty- 
four hours; drain and cover with vinegar, remain 
twelve hours ; drain, and add four red peppers and 
two green ones, one-quarter of a pound mustard seed 
and two tablespoonpsful mixed mustard,one tablespoon- 
ful allspice, one tablespoonful back pepper, half table- 
spoonful cloves, half a cupful sweet oil and a teacupful 
brown sugar. Mix all well, and cover with vinegar. 



Onion Pickles. 

Peel white onions, (medium or small sized,) lay 
them in fresh water all night; in the morning place in 
a jar alternate layers of onions, celery seed, ginger, 
cloves, ah 1 spice and red pepper ; add to the vinegar a 
little turmeric, sugar and salt; beat it, and pour over 
the onions while hot. In a few days pour off the vin- 



, 

ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 309 

egar ; heat it again, and pour over the pickles. When 
perfectly cold they will be fit for use. 

Sweet fickle. 

To one pound vinegar add six pounds of sugar ; add 
cinnamon, a few cloves, allspice and a little mace, boil 
well together ; have your fruit in a stone jar, strain 
the syrup over it while hot, let it remain until next 
day ; pour off the syrup, place it over the fire ; as soon 
as it commences to boil put in your fruit and boil till it 
is tender. This pickle will answer for peaches, pears, 
apples, watermelon rind, or any pickle that can be 
made sweet. 



CrherTcins. 

These make a very nice pickle, and if gathered 
when young make a nice filling for mangoes. They 
should be gathered when young and tender, and left in 
the brine till they become yellow ; then scald vinegar, 
with spices to suit the taste, and when cold pour it over 
the pickles. 

Mushrooms. 

Be careful in the selections of mushrooms, that they 
are perfectly fresh, throw a little salt on them, and re- 
move the skin from the top ; scald them in salt water 
for only a few moments ; then pour off the water, and 
pour on spiced vinegar. If you wish them to keep 
well, cork tight. 



310 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Catsup, (Tomato Catsup.) 

Take very ripe tomatoes, wash and mash them up 
well, adding a very little salt ; put in a clean tub or 
wooden vessel, and let it stand covered all night. In 
the morning, put them in a large brass kettle and let 
them cook well; then take off and strain through a 
sieve; boil down till quite thick; about half an hour 
before taking from the stove, put in considerable red 
pepper pods, cloves, allspice and cinnamon, tied in a 
thin cloth. Have ready about one dozen large onions 
sliced fine, and fresh peppers and spices tied in a thin 
cloth, (to prevent further straining ;) put the onion 
and spices so tied up into a large earthen vessel, and 
let it stand covered twenty-four hours ; then make as 
thin as you like with the best cider vinegar. Bottle, 
cork and seal ; add a little garlic, if you like the 
flavor. 

Pepper Catsup. 

Take fifty pods of large red bell peppers, seed and 
all; add one pint of vinegar and boil till you can 
mash the pulp through a sieve; add to the pulp an- 
other pint of vinegar, two tablespoonsful sugar, cloves, 
mace, spice, onions and salt. Put it into a kettle and 
boil to the proper consistency. Some omit the spices. 

Tomato Catsup. 

(MRS. JUDGE BKEESE.) 

Slice and boil the tomatoes well, (not strained ;) a 
quarter of an ounce each of mace, nutmeg and 





ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 311 

cloves, one handful scraped horseradish, two pods red 
pepper, salt to the taste ; boil this away to three quarts 
and then strain ; adding one pint of wine and half a 
pint of vinegar. Bottle and leave the bottle open a 
day or two. Then cork and seal. 



Tomato Catsup. 

( MRS. HARRIMAN. ) 

One gallon tomatoes, four tablespoonsful salt, four 
tablespoonsful cloves, one tablespoonful mace, one 
tablespoonful cayenne pepper, two tablespoonsful 
allspice, eight tablespoonsful black mustard seed, 
eight whole peppers, five garlics, two quarts cider 
vinegar, one pound brown sugar. Boil away one half, 
strain and bottle. 



Chopped Catsup. 

To one gallon chopped tomatoes put three-quarters of 
a gallon chopped cabbage, two pints of onions chopped 
fine and three-quarters of a pint green peppers chopped. 
Let them stand one night with salt over them and drip ; 
add cloves, allspice, horseradish grated, fine celery, 
mustard seed and garlic. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Seven pounds peaches, three or four pounds brown 
sugar, one quart vinegar, two tablespoonsful whole 
cloves, two tablespoonsful allspice, one tablespoonful 
mace. Boil together and pour over the peaches. Let 



I 

312 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



them stand twenty-four hours, and repeat the boiling 
three or four times. 



Yellow Pickle. 

One pound horseradish dried and sliced, one pound 
skinned garlic, twelve ounces ginger, two ounces 
cloves, one large cupful black pepper, half pound 
mustard seed, half a cupful ground mustard, two 
tablespoonsful celery seed, one ounce nutmeg; put all 
these spices in two gallons vinegar. Take hard, white 
cabbage, halve or quarter them, and boil in salt and 
water till you can run a straw into them ; then dry them 
on a cloth, turning often. One day will dry them, if 
the sun is bright. Put them in plain vinegar for three 
weeks, then put them in the spiced vinegar, which must 
be put in a three gallon jar. To pickle onions, pour 
over them boiling salt and water, and let them stand in 
it twenty-four hours. Dry them one or two days and 
put into spiced vinegar. Two pounds brown sugar 
added to this pickle improves it greatly. 



Chow-Chow. 

Three heads of cabbage, twenty-five peppers, half a 
pint of white mustard seed and grated horseradish; 
cut the cabbage fine, chop the peppers, and then put in 
the jar a layer of cabbage, then a layer of peppers, then 
a little salt, and sprinkle a little horseradish and mus- 
tard seed over the whole, and so on until the ingredients 
are all in the jar; then fill the jar with cold vinegar, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 313 

to every quart of which dissolve two ounces of brown 
sugar. 



Pickled Plums. 

One peck plums, seven pounds sugar, half-pint vin- 
egar; dissolve together sugar and vinegar, add the 
plums ; boil three hours, stirring it all the time, and 
take out the stones while boiling ; add two tablespoons- 
ful allspice, two of ground cloves. * 



Virginia Damson Pickles. 

To five pounds damsons allow five pounds sugar 
and two and a half pints vinegar. Take the vinegar 
and put to it two ounces mace, one ounce cinnamon, 
and one ounce cloves. Let it come to a boil and pour 
over the fruit and sugar ; cover close. Turn off and 
scald the syrup for six successive days ; the seventh 
day let fruit, spices, and all come to a boil. It will 
keep for years. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Take walnuts fit for pickling, beat them well in a 
mortar till they are pulped; then squeeze out the 
juice, and let it settle a day ; pour off the clear. To 
a pint of juice put one pound of anchovies with one 
ounce of shallots ; stir it on the fire till the anchovies 
are dissolved ; strain it off clear. To every quart put 
a quarter of an ounce mace, a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and 
24 



314 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



half a pint of white wine vinegar; boil the whole to- 
gether a quarter of an hour, then bottle it. It will 
keep three years. A tablespoonful is sufficient for 
half a pint of melted butter. One hundred walnuts 
will produce one quart of juice. 



Universal Sauce. 

Two gallons of ' vinegar, quarter of a pound of 
cayenne pods bruised, thirty-two cloves or garlic; mix 
the above, and let it stand five days ; then strain it ; 
add three pints of walnut juice and three pints of 
indian soy. Bottle it for use. 



Tomato Catsup. 

One peck of tomatoes, two teaspoonsful salt, one 
and a half ground pepper, two spoonsful ground 
cloves, one spoonful ground allspice, one spoonful red 
pepper, and one tablespoonful ground ginger. Boil 
down thick, and add good cider vinegar. The toma- 
toes should be first cooked, and then run through a 
sieve to remove the skins and seed. If onion and a 
little garlic is sliced thin and the catsup poured over 
them while it is hot, it will improve the flavor. 



Sweet Tomato Pickles. 

One pint of sugar to one quart of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, and one teaspoonful cloves; slice 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 315 

green tomatoes over night, and salt between each layer 
until all are in. Lay a clean white cloth in a basket 
before putting the tomatoes in ; let them drain over 
night to remove the bitter water from them. Put 
them in a clean kettle, and pour the sugar and vinegar 
over, and cook them till tender. Those who like the 
chow-chow or mustard pickles that are sold in the 
stores, can have just as good by adding ground mus- 
tard. Sliced onions are very nice mixed with the 
green tomatoes. But as onions are disagreeable to 
many persons, they can be used or not. 



Salad Dressing. 

One teaspoonful mixed mustard, one teaspoonful 
white sugar, two tablespoonsful salad oil, four table- 
spoonsful milk, two tablespoonsful vinegar, cayenne 
and salt to the taste. Put the mixed mustard into a 
salad bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by 
drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredi- 
ents together. Proceed in this manner with the milk 
and vinegar, which must be added very gradually, or 
the sauce will curdle. Put in the seasoning, when the 
mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is 
properly made it will have a soft, creamy appearance, 
and will be found very delicious with crab or cold fried 
fish, as well as with salad. In mixing salad dress- 
ings the ingredients cannot be added too gradually or 
stirred too much. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Onion PicJtles. 

In November take dried onions, small and round, 
peel them and throw them in salt water; let them re- 
main there a few days, drain them; put them in a jar 
and pour vinegar over them that has been boiled with 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon and mace in it. Some 
think a better way is to scald the onions, (not cook 
them,) and throw a little milk in the water, it keeps 
them white. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Rub together six tablespoonsful sweet cream and 
one tablespoonful mustard; butter can be used instead 
of cream. Set in a kettle of boiling water, and add 
two eggs, well-beaten. Then pour in, gradually, nine 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Pour this over nicely cut 
cabbage while it is hot ; add salt, pepper and sugar, 
and more vinegar, if the mixture is not thin enough. 
This should be constantly stirred. It should be of the 
consistency of thick cream. 

Tomato Catsup. 

To every gallon of the pulp, after it has been cooked 
and strained, three even tablespoonsful of salt, two 
tablespoonsful black pepper, one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, two tablespoonsful mustard, one tablespoon- 
fnl allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful 
ground ginger, two tablespoonsful sugar, one tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper and one quart cider vinegar. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 317 

Boil all together until sufficiently thick. Bottle while 
hot, and keep in a cool place. 



Ripe Cucumber Pickles. 

Pare seven pounds cucumbers and cut in slices 
lengthwise. Soak two or three days in salt and 
water, after scraping out the inside ; then cook them in 
weak vinegar with a spoonful of alum until tender. 
Boil three pounds sugar, three pints vinegar and half a 
cupful spices of different kinds in a bag. Pour over 
the pickles while hot. 

Peach Pickles. 

Beat together cinnamon, cloves, allspice and race 
ginger; add a little turmeric. Wash firm freestone 
peaches and wipe them dry, cut in halves, remove the 
seed, then sprinkle a small quantity of the mixed 
spices in each half, and fill them with white mustard 
seed and a few celery seed 5 put them together and tie 
them; place them in a jar with slices of onions, cinna- 
mon, race ginger, allspice, cloves, celery seed and 
cayenne pepper. Stir into a half gallon of vinegar 
one pound of sugar, a half pint of salt, and enough 
turmeric to color the peaches. Pour over the peaches 
cold. 

^ 

Pepper Mangoes. 

Select white cabbage heads, chop them fine ; add 
salt, celery seed, white mustard seed, ground ginger, 



318 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

turmeric, and mix the whole with a little pure olive 
oil. Seed and fill the peppers ; after washing and wip- 
ing them, sew the side of them with a white thread ; 
then place in a jar alternate layers of peppers, allspice, 
sliced onions, ginger and cloves. Stir into one gallon 
of vinegar half a pound of sugar, one pint of salt and 
half an ounce of turmeric. Pour over the peppers 
cold. In about six weeks pour off the vinegar and re- 
place it with salt, sugar and turmeric, as the first will 
probably have lost all the flavor. 



Cabbage Pickle. 

Quarter nice large cabbage heads ; place in a tray or 
tub alternate layers of cabbage and salt, let them re- 
main all night; next day cover them just as they 
stand with boiling water ; let them remain until cold 
enough to press the water out with a towel. Place in 
a jar alternate layers of cabbage, allspice, cloves, 
white mustard seed, ginger, celery seed, cayenne pep- 
per, (green and red,) and sliced onion. Add to the 
vinegar, sugar and salt, (if the cabbage should not be 
salt enough ;) have the turmeric in a bag and rub out 
in the vinegar; pour the vinegar over the cabbage. 

Plum Catsup. . 

( MRS. DR. RYAN. ) 

One gallon of plums, with a very little water; 
stand them on the top of the stove till they are cooked 
perfectly soft; then set the kettle off and let it cool 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 319 

enough to be nibbed through the sieve, letting the 
juice and pulp both pass through the sieve ; when all 
is well rubbed through, put it again in the kettle and 
set it on the stove, adding two and a half pounds 
brown sugar to three quarts of the pulp ; let them boil 
together about an hour and a half, then add a pint of 
best cider vinegar, and spice to suit the taste all- 
spice, cloves and cinnamon, about two tablespoonsful 
of each to that quantity. When done, bottle and cork 
tight, seal the corks over it, it is safer. 



Damson Sweet fickle. 

Four pounds damsons, one pint cider vinegar, one 
pound sugar, one ounce cloves, one ounce mace, two 
ounces cinnamon and two ounces allspice. Boil the 
vinegar with sugar and spices, and pour over the fruit 
while hot. This will have to be repeated several 
times. 



Melon Sweet fickle. 

. 

Three pounds rind of melon, two pints best vinegar 
and ?>ne pound and a half sugar. Soak the rind one 
week in brine, then soak it in clear water till the salt 
is out; scald in alum water; then throw it in cold 
water several hours; boil the vinegar, sugar and 
spices, and scald the melon till it is clear. Use the 
same spices as for any other sweet pickle. 



320 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Chow-Chow. 

One gallon unpeeled cucumbers, half a gallon cab- 
bage, half a dozen onions and half a dozon green pep- 
pers. Chop fine, salt separately ; let it stand to drain 
in a basket twenty-fours. Mix, scald in old vinegar; 
strain, and add sugar and spices as above, and cold 
vinegar. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Slice and salt one gallon of cucumbers ; let them 
stand two or three hours, then press out all the water 
in a coarse linen. Add four tablespoon sful of best 
table oil, two tablespoonsful white mustard seed, one 
tablespoonful ground" mustard, one tablespoonful 
mace, two tablespoonsful black pepper, one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful turmeric, 
one pint madeira wine, one cupful and a half loaf 
sugar. Mix this in a vessel and pour over the pickle 
cold. 

Yellow Cabbage fickle. 

One gallon vinegar, quarter of a pound mustard 
seed, half a teacup ginger, one tablespoonful pepper, a 
handful of horse radish, one ounce turmeric, garlic and 
onions to the taste. Keep the cabbage in brine three 
days, then wash it off in iresh water and drain. Boil 
all together three minutes. 



PRESERVES . 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING. 



Perhaps the following few general hints on preserv- 
ing, for the use of a young housewife, may not be un- 
acceptable. Several of the directions may appear 
needless, but there may be some inexperienced per- 
sons to whom they may be beneficial : 

Let everything used for the purpose be clean and 
dry, especially bottles. 

Never place a preserving pan flat on the fire, as this 
will render the preserve liable to burn to, as it is called ; 
that is to say, to adhere closely to the metal, and then to 
burn; it should always rest on a trivet, or the lower 
bar othe kitchen range. 

After the sugar is added to them, stir the preserves 
gently at first, and more quickly towards the end, 
without quitting them until they are done; this pre- 
caution will prevent their being spoiled. 

All preserves should be perfectly cleared from the 
scum as its rises. 



322 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Fruit which is to be preserved in syrup must first be 
blanched or boiled gently, until it is sufficiently soft- 
w ened to absorb the sugar; and a thin syrup must be 
poured on it at first, or it will shrivel instead of re- 
maining plump and becoming clear. Thus, if its 
weight of sugar is to be allowed, and boiled to a 
syrup, with a pint of water to the pound, only half the 
weight must be taken at first, and this must not be 
boiled with the water more than fifteen or twenty 
minutes at the commencement of the process. A part 
of the remaining sugar must be added every time the 
syrup is reboiled, unless it should be otherwise di- 
rected in the receipt. 

To preserve both the true flavor aud the color of 
fruit in jams and jellies, boil them rapidly until they 
are well reduced, before the sugar is added, and 
quickly afterwards ; but do not allow them to become 
so much thickened that the sugar will not dissolve in 
them easily, and throw up its scum. In some seasons 
the juice is so much richer than in others that this 
effect takes place almost before one is aware of it ; but 
the drop which adheres to the skimmer, when it is 
held up, will show the state it has reached. 

ISTever use tin, iron or pewter spoons or skimmers 
for preserves, as they will convert the color of red 
fruit into a dingy purple, and impart, besides, a very 
unpleasant flavor. 

When cheap jams or jellies are required, make them 
at once with loaf sugar, but use that which is well re- 
fined always for preserves in general. It is a false 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 323 

economy to purchase an inferior kind, as there is great 
waste from it in the quantity of scum which it throws 
up. 

Pans of copper or bell-metal are the proper utensils 
for preserving fruit. When used, they must be 
scoured bright with sand. Tinned pans -turn and de- 
stroy the color of the fruit that is put into them. A 
stewpan made of iron, coated with earthenware, is 
very nice for preserving. 

Canning Fruits. 

In canning fruit the same rule will hold good in 
most fruits. In the first place they should be fresh 
gathered, peeled and let get scalding hot ; they do not 
need to be cooked. The bottles or jars sho^i be 
carefully cleaned and scalded, and should be ke]^ hot 
while putting in the fruit, and then sealed or soldered 
as quickly as possible. There is some difference of 
opinion about the way of putting up fruit; some think 
that the fruit should be put cold in the cans or bottles, 
and the cans set in a vessel of cold water, and that set 
to boiling till the fruit has thoroughly scalded ; others 
prefer the quicker way of scalding the fruit and put- 
ting it into the hot cans. Either way is good. I pre- 
fer the latter way for most fruits. When sugar is to 
be used, the proper proportion is: to each pound of 
fruit a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pint of 
water. Do a kettle full, or as many pounds as can be 
attended to at a time, then till your cans. Prepare 
more fruit, and weigh the sugar and measure the 



324 ILLINOIS COOK. BOOK. 

water, and let them scald thoroughly. They must be 
hot all through, or they will not keep. Peaches, pears, 
quinces and sweet fruit, can be put in tin without in- 
jury to their color; but cherries, blackberries, straw- 
berries, plums, and all fruits containing acid, should 
be put in earthen or glass. 

Peaches Canned Whole. 

This is one of the nicest ways that peaches can be 
up put. They not only look nicer on the table, but retain 
more of their natural flavor, having the stones left in 
them. Select such as are finely flavored, peel them, 
and weigh as many as you can do at a time. To each 
pound of peaches put a quarter of a pound of white 
sug^^and half a pint of water. Let your syrup 
come to a boil, and drop your fruit into it, and let 
them cook till they are very tender, but not cooked to 
pieces. Have your cans hot by pouring boiling water 
into them, fill and seal up immediately. It is well to 
lay a heavy weight on each can (if they are sealed 
with wax) till they become cold. 

Plums. 

There are several varieties of plums. The richest 
purple plum for preserving is the damson ; there are 
of these large and small; the large are called sweet 
damsons, the small ones are very rich flavored. The 
great difficulty in preserving plums is that the skins 
crack and the fruit comes to pieces. The rule here 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 325 

laid down for preserving them obviates that difficulty. 
Purple gages, unless properly preserved, will turn to 
juice, and skins; and the large horse plum (as it is 
generally known) comes completely to pieces in ordin- 
ary modes of preserving; the one recommended herein 
will keep them whole, full and rich. Make a syrup of 
clean brown sugar ; clarify it as directed in these re- 
ceipts; when perfectly clear and boiling hot, pour it 
over the plums, having picked out all unsound ones 
and stems : let them remain in the syrup two days, 
then drain it off; make it boiling hot, skim it, and pour 
it over again ; let them remain another day or two, 
then put them in a preserving kettle over the fire, and 
simmer gently until the syrup is reduced, and thick or 
rich. One pound of sugar for each pound of plums. 
Small damsons are very fine, preserved as cherries or 
any other ripe fruit ; clarify the syrup, and when boil- 
ing hot put in the plums ; let them boil very gently 
until they are cooked, and the syrup rich. Put them 
in pots or jars ; the next day secure as directed. 

Plums Without the Skins. 

Pour boiling water over large egg or magnum 
bonum plums ; cover them until it is cold, then pull 
off the skins. Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and 
a teacupful of water for each pound of fruit; make it 
boiling hot, and pour it over; let them remain for a 
day or two, then drain it off and boil again ; skim it 
clear, and pour it hot over the plums ; let them remain 



326 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

until the next day, then put them over the fire in the 
syrup; boil them very gently until clear; take them 
from the syrup with a skimmer into the pots or jars ; 
boil the syrup until rich and thick ; take off any scum 
which may arise, then let it cool and settle, and pour 
it over the plums. If brown sugar is used, which is 
quite as good except for green gages, clarify it as di- 
rected. 



Peaches. 

Take ripe freestone peaches ; pare, stone and quar- 
ter them. To six pounds of the cut peaches allow 
three pounds of the best brown sugar. Strew the 
sugar among the peaches, and set them away in a 
covered vessel. Next morning, put the whole into a 
preserving kettle, and boil it slowly about an hour and 
three-quarters or two hours, skimming it well. 

Pears. 

Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; 
let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer arid 
simmer again. Repeat this till they are clear; then 
drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a little 
time ; or they may be kept in the syrup and dried as 
wanted, which makes them richer. 



Currants for Tarts. 

Get your currants, when they are dry, and pick 
them ; to every pound and a quarter of. currants put a 

i| Vl 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 327 

pound of sugar, into a preserving pan, with as much 
juice of currants as will dissolve it; when it boils, 
skirn it, and put in your currants, and boil them till 
they are clear; put them into a jar, lay paper over, tie 
them down, and keep them in a dry place. 

fears for the Tea Table. 

Take ripe pears and wipe them carefully ; place a 
layer, stem upward, in a stone jar, sprinkle over sugar, 
then set in another layer of pears, and so on until the 
jar is filled. To every gallon put in a pint and a half 
water. Cover the top of the jar with pie crust, and 
set it in a slow oven for two hours. 



Apple or Quince Jelly. 

Pare, quarter and core the apples ; put them in a 
saucepan with enough water to cover them ; let them 
boil five minutes ; put them in a bag, and let them 
drain until the next day. To one pint of juice put 

one pound- of sugar, and boil it from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Cranberry jelly) may be made in the same 
way. 

Strawberries. 

To two pounds of fine large strawberries add two 
pounds of powdered sugar, and put them in a preserv- 
ing kettle, over a slow fire, till the sugar is melted ; 
then boil them /precisely twenty minutes, as fast as 
possible; have ready a number of small jars, and put 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



the fruit in boiling hot. Cork and seal the jars im- 
mediately, and keep them through the summer in a 
cold dry cellar. The jars must be heated before the 
hot fruit is poured in, otherwise they will break. 



Raspberries, 

These may be preserved wet, bottled, or made jam 
or marmalade of, the same as strawberries. Rasp 
berries are very good dried in the sun or in a warm 
oven. They are very delicious stewed for table or 
tarts. 



Quince Jam. 

Twelve ounces brown sugar to one pound of quince. 
Boil the fruit in as little water as possible, until the 
fruit will mash easily. Pour off the water, mash the 
fruit with a spoon, put in the sugar, and boil twenty 
minutes, stirring often. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Wash and pick over the fruit, and boil till soft in 
water enough to cover it. Strain through a sieve, and 
weigh equal quantities of the pulp and sugar. Boil 
gently fifteen or twenty minutes, taking care it -does 
not burn. 

Peaches. 

Take ripe, but not soft peaches. Pour boiling 
water over them to take off the skins, which will pull 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 329 

off easily. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar, 
and put them together in an earthen pan over night. 
In the morning pour off the syrup, and boil a few 
minutes; set off the kettle and take off the scum. 
Put back the kettle on the fire ; when the syrup boils 
up, put in the peaches. Boil them slowly three-quar- 
ters of an hour, take them out and put in jars. Boil 
the syrup fifteen minutes more, and pour over tnem: 



Currant Jam, (Blacky Hed or White.} 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the 
stalks, bruise if, and to every pound put three-quarters 
of a pound of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil half an 
hour. 



Currant Jelly, (lied or Black.) 

Strip the fruit, put in a stone jar, and stew them in 
a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth ; 
strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound 
of loaf sugar, put the latter in large lumps into it, in a 
stone vessel till nearly dissolved ; then put in a pre- 
serving pan ; simmer and skim as necessary. When 
it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. 

Apple Jelly. 

Boil your apples in water till they are quite to a 

mash ; then put them through a flannel bag to drip. 

To every pint of the juice put one pound of sugar; 

boil till it jellies ; season with lemon juice and peel to 

25 



330 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

your taste a little before it is finished. I may as well 
add, that I can say from experience, that this jelly is 
excellent, and of a beautiful color. 

Currant Jelly. 

Pick fine red, but long ripe currants from the stems ; 
bruise them, and strain the juke from a quart at a 
time through a thin muslin ; wring it gently, to get all 
the liquid ; put a pound of white sugar to each pound 
of juice; stir it until it is all dissolved; set it over a 
gentle fire ; let it become hot, and boil for fifteen min- 
utes ; then try it by taking a spoonful into a saucer ; 
when cold, if it is not quite firm enough, boil it for a 
few minutes longer. 

Crab Apple Marmalade. 

Boil the apples in a kettle until soft, with just water 
enough to cover them. Mash, and strain through a 
coarse sieve. Take a pound of apple to a pound of 
sugar; boil half an hour, and put into jars. 



Apple Marmalade. 

Take any kind of sour apples, pare and core them, 
cut them in small pieces, and to every pound of apples 
put three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Put them in 
a preserving pan and boil over a slow fire until they 
are reduced to a fine pulp. Then put them in jelly 
jars, and keep them in a cool place. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 331 



Crab Apple Jelly. 

Boil the apples, with just water enough to cover 
them, until tender. Mash with a spoon, and strain 
out the juice. Take a pint of juice to a pound of 
sugar ; boil thirty minutes, and strain through a hair 
sieve. 



Apple in Jelly. 

Pare and core some well-shaped apples; pippins or 
golden russets if you have them, but others will do; 
throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a 
preserving pan, and with as little water as will only 
half cover them; let them coddle, and when the lower 
side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie 
too close when first put in. When sufficiently done, 
take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the 
stalk downward. Take the water and make a rich 
jelly of it with loaf sugar, boiling the thin rind and 
juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow 
cold, .and put it on and among the apples ; cut the peel 
of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of 
the apple. 

Apple Jam that Will Keep for Years. 

Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good 
sour apples ; pare, core, and chop them fine ; make a 
good, clear syrup of the sugar. Add the apples, the 
juice and grated rind of three lemons, and a few pieces 
of white ginger. Boil it till the apple looks clear and 



332 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

yellow ; this resembles foreign sweetmeats. On no ac- 
count omit the ginger. 

Quinces Whole. 

Pare and put them into a saucepan, with the par- 
ings at the top; then fill it with hard water; cover it 
close ; set it over a gentle fire till they turn reddish ; 
let them stand till cold; put them into a clear, thick 
syrup ; boil them for a few minutes ; set them on one 
side till quite cold ; boil them again in the same manner ; 
the next day boil them until they look clear; if the 
syrup is not thick enough, boil it more ; when cold, put 
brandied paper over them. The quinces may be 
halved or quartered. 

Quince Jelly. 

Take some sound, yellow quinces, which are not 
over ripe ; peel them, cut them in quarters, and boil 
them in as much water as will cover them When 
they have been well-boiled, squeeze them through a 
linen cloth, clarify the juice in a filtering bag, weigh 
it, and put it with three-quarters of its weight of sugar 
in a brass kettle. Do not forget to put in a piece of 
cinnamon. Cook the whole together until it has be- 
come a jelly. Take it from the fire, and tie up in 
pots when it is cold. 

Quince Marmalade. 

To one gallon of quinces, three pounds of good loaf 
sugar. Pare the quinces and cut them in halves, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 333 

scoop out the cores and the hard strip that unites the 
core with the string ; put the cores and some of the 
parings in a saucepan with about a quart of water, put 
the halves of quinces in a steamer that fits the sauce- 
pan; boil them until the quinces are softened by the 
steam; then mash them with a wooden spoon, in a 
dish, and pour the water from the saucepan on them, 
which is now of a thick glutinous substance; put 
with the sugar in a stewpan or enamelled saucepan, 
and let them boil for about half an hour, keeping 
them well stirred. 



To Clarify Sugar. 

Put into a preserving pan as many pounds of sugar 
as you wish ; to each pound of sugar put half a pint 
of water, and the white of an egg to every four 
pounds; stir it together until the sugar is dissolved; 
then set it over a gentle fire; stir it occasionally, and 
take off the scum as it rises. After a few boilings up % 
the sugar will rise so high as to run over the side of 
the pan; to prevent which, take it from the fire for a 
few minutes, when it will subside, and leave time for 
skimming. Repeat the skimming until a slight scum 
or foam only will rise ; then take off the pan, lay a 
slightly wetted napkin over the basin, and then strain 
the sugar through it. Put the skimmings into a 
basin ; when the sugar is clarified, rinse the skimmer 
and basin with a glass of cold water, and put it to the 
scum, and set it by for common purposes. 



334 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Drop the peaches in hot water, let them remain till 
the skin can be ripped off; make a thin syrup, and let 
it cover the fruit ; boil the fruit till it can be pierced 
with a straw ; take it out, make a very rich syrup, and 
add, after it is taken from the tire, and while it is still 
hot, an equal quantity of brandy. Pour this while it 
is still warm, over the peaches in the jar. They must 
be covered with it. 

Pears. 

Take six pounds of pears to four pounds of sugar ; 
boil the parings in as much water as will cover them ; 
strain it through a colander; lay some pears in the 
bottom of your kettle, put in some sugar, and so on 
alternately; then pour the liquor off the pear skins 
over; boil them until they begin to look transparent, 
then take them out, let the juice cool, and clarify it; 
put the pears in again, and add some ginger; boil till 
done ; let the liquor boil after taking them out until it 
is reduced to a syrup. 

Pears for the Table. 

Peel three pounds of pears and place them in a 
stewpan ; cover them with water, and let them stew 
two hours. Take them out and put them in a brown 
jar with three-fourths of a pound of loaf sugar and 
two tablespoonsful of the water they were stewed in to 
each pound. Add a little candied lemon, cut in small 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 335 

pieces, or a few cloves, if preferred. Place the cover 
on the jar, and stew them in an oven for two hours. 
Sometimes they require a little longer time. Golden 
syrup sufficient to cover them may be substituted for 
sugar and water. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Weigh the fruit, and add three-quarters of the 
weight of sugar ; put the former into a preserving pan, 
boil, and break it ; stir constantly, and let it boil very 
quickly ; when the juice has boiled an hour, add the 
sugar and simmer half an hour. In this way the jam 
is superior in color and flavor to that which is made by 
putting the sugar in at first. 

Currant Jelly. 

Put your currants into a stone pot, and set them into 
a pot of water over the fire. Having strained the 
juice of these heated currants through a cloth, 
measure it, and to each pint allow a pound of sugar. 
Put your sugar into the oven in a shallow pan, and let. 
it heat through, but be careful not to scorch it. Have 
your currant juice hot, and put in the sugar hot, and 
let both boil together four minutes. This is very nice, 
if carefully made. 

Cantelope Mind. 

Take one pound of rind, not quite mellow, and cut 
the outside carefully off ; lay it in a bowl and sprinkle 



336 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

over it one teaspoonful of alum ; cover it with boiling 
water, and let it stand all night; then dry it in a cloth, 
scald it in ginger tea, but do not boil it; then dry it 
again in a cloth; to one pound of rind allow one 
pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Boil it an 
hour. 

Citron. 

Cut the citron the round way of the citron ; take off 
the rind, take out the seed ; it should be cut about an 
inch thick, and can then be cut into any shape to suit 
the fancy ; soak it in soda water two or three hours ; 
then rinse it in clear, cold water ; wipe it dry or let it 
drain till the water is all off. Allow a pound of white 
sugar to each pound of citron ; do not add a great 
deal of water; let the syrup boil well and skim it; 
then put in your fruit. Be careful it does not cook 
dark, nor let it become too thick, or it will turn to 
sugar. Boil in a cup an ounce of the best race ginger, 
and add the water to the preserves while cooking. The 
ginger should be pounded to make it soft. Renew the 
water on the ginger till it is soft ; then add the ginger 
to the preserves. This way of giving it the ginger 
taste is the cheapest, but candied ginger can be pur- 
chased at the confectioneries, which will .be much 
nicer, and can be eaten as well as the citron. Two 
lemons should be added, slice them, leaving the rind 
.on. The syrup can be cooked down, and makes a 
most splendid jelly. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 337 

Cherry. 

I have no doubt that all housekeepers have had the 
same experience in regard to cherry preserves, and 
that is, that after being made for some time, they al- 
ways become strong. To avoid this, squeeze out all 
the juice with the hand, (the juice can be used for 
cordial or " royal acid," a receipt in this book,) and 
then wash the cherries in two or three waters of good, 
cold well water. Take one pound of white sugar to 
each pound of cherries; add water enough to cook 
them. Do not put too much, or it will make them 
dark by long cooking. If you want cherry preserves 
that you can eat, and that will keep sweet as long as 
you have them, try this way, and you will never want 
to make them any other way. 



Tomato* 

Take tomatoes, not too large, (either red or yellow,) 
scald and skin them; add one pound of white sugar 
to every pound of tomatoes. Let them stand over 
night, then take out the tomatoes and boil the syrup, 
and skim it well. Add tomatoes and boil till done. 
Flavor with stick cinnamon. 



Tomato Marmalade. 

( MRS. DR. STEWART. ) 

To every pound of tomatoes one pound of sugar; 
peel the skin off and add sugar without any water, one 
ounce of ginger powdered, and juice of two lemons, 



338 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



rind grated, to every three pounds of fruit. Boil until 
a thick jam, and cover while hot. 



Damson Sauce. 

Twelve pounds ripe damsons, four pounds of cider 
vinegar and three pounds of sugar. Boil till the 
damsons are soft; take them out and mash them, 
and then put them back into the syrup and boil from a 
half to three-quarters of an hour, stirring them and 
watching them closely, that they do not stick to the 
kettle or burn. 

9 

For Canning Corn. 

After the corn is first cut from the cob, boil it, and 
when cooked almost as much as for the table, to a large 
iron stove pot of the boiling corn, put one teaspoon- 
ful and a half tartaric acid. Use only glass jars, as 
nothing else will do. When you prepare it for the 
table in winter, after it boils use a small teaspoonful of 
soda to destroy the acid taste ; then season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. I have this receipt from a Ken- 
tucky lady, who says it is perfectly delightful, and will 
keep splendidly. She has tried it for years, and never 
fails. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Take one pint strawberries, one pint cream, nearly 
half a pound of powdered white sugar and the juice 
of one lemon. Mash the fruit through a sieve or very 
tine with the hand ; the sieve will remove the seed, if 
it is preferred. Mix with the other articles, and 
freeze. A little new milk added will make the whole 
freeze more quickly. 

Raspberry ice cream is made in the same manner. 



Italian Snow. 

Two pounds white sugar, the juice of six lemons, 
two quarts water and twenty-four whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Mix the water, juice and 
sugar well together, then add the eggs, stir all to- 
gether, put into a freezer and stir till it freezes. 



340 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



Itallienne Ice. 

Boil two quarts rich cream ; have ready fourteen 
ounces of ground mocha coffee; when boiling hot, 
pour the cream over the coffee ; cover very tightly, and 
let it infuse for two hours. Then take ten eggs, very 
fresh, separate the whites from the yelks, whip lightly 
the whites ; then pour the coffee and cream through a 
very fine sieve and stir in the whites, a^nd add sugar to 
suit the taste. Put this on the fire for a few moments, 
then strain ; when cold, put into a freezer and freeze. 

Chocolate ices are made in about the same way. 
Grate half a pound best French chocolate into one 
quart milk or cream ; let it boil till thiek, add sugar ; 
stir well. Let it get cold, and freeze. 

Strawberry Water Ice. 

Have fresh nice strawberries, rub them through a 
sieve ; add the juice of one lemon. Make a strong, 
tolerably thick syrup, and when cold, add the straw- 
berry juice and lemon. Freeze well. 



Lemon Ice. 

Lemon juice and water, each half a pint, and strong 
syrup one pint. The rind of the lejnon should be 
rasped off before squeezing with the sugar. Mix the 
whole, strain after standing an hour, and freeze. Beat 
up with a little sugar the whites of three or four eggs, 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 341 

and as the ice is beginning tc set, work this in with a 
wooden paddle or spoon, it will greatly improve the 
ice. 

Orange water ice is made in the same way. 

Pineapples 

Chopped fine, sweetened delicately, and nice ma- 
deira wine poured over them and frozen, is delicious. 



Peaches. 

Nutmeg grated over peaches is a great improve- 
ment. Try it. 

Ice Cream. 

Take one gallon of rich cream, sweeten delicately, 
and flavor with vanilla or lemon. Set the cream in a 
tin bucket, and let it get ice cold ; then whip to a stiff 
froth. Put it in the freezer and keep it well stirred, 
unless the " patent " freezer is used. 



Lemon Syrup, (To Save the Lemon.) 

When you have lemons that are likely to spoil or 
dry up, take the insides which are yet sound, squeeze 
out the juice, and to each pint put a pound and a half 
white sugar and a little of the peel ; boil for a few 
minutes, strain and cork for use. This will not re- 
quire any acid, and half a teaspoonful of soda to 
three-quarters of a glassful of water, with two or 



342 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

three tablespoonsful of syrup, will make a foaming 
glass. 

Cream Soda, (This is Splendid.} 

Coffee sugar four pounds, water three pints, three 
g.rated nutmegs, whites of ten eggs well-beaten, gum 
arabic one ounce, oil of lemon twenty drops, or ex- 
tract equal to that amount. By using oils of other 
fruits, you can make as many flavors from this as you 
desire or prefer. Mix all well, and place over a gentle 
fire, and stir well about thirty minutes ; remove from 
the fire, strain, and divide into two parts ; into half put 
eight ounces supercarbonate of soda, and into the other 
half put six ounces tartaric acid; shake well, and 
when cold, they are ready to use. By pouring three 
or four spoonsful from both parts into separate glasses 
which are one third full of cold water, stir each and 
pour together, and you have as nice a glass of cream 
soda as was ever drank, which you can drink at your 
leisure, as the gum and eggs hold the gas. 

Cheap Ice Cream. 

Six quarts milk and Oswego corn starch half a 
pound; first dissolve the starch in one quart of the 
milk ; then mix all together and just simmer a little, 
(not to boil ;) sweeten and flavor to suit the taste, or 
make it as the following receipt: Irish moss one 
ounce and a half and milk one gallon. First soak the 
moss in a little cold water for an hour, and rinse well 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 343 

to clear it of sand ; then steep it for an hour in the 
milk just at the boiling point, but not to boil; two or 
three whites of eggs, well-beaten, and added after it is 
cold is an improvement. Beat while freezing. 



Wine Jelly. 

For one package of gelatine or one ounce isinglass, 
pour one pint cold water, and let it stand ten minutes ; 
then add one pint boiling water, one pound white 
sugar and whites and shells of two eggs. Then mix 
all with isinglass. Boil five minutes and strain 
through a flannel bag. Be sure not to squeeze it. 
Flavor with wine to the taste. 



Splendid Ginger fop. 

Five gallons and a half water, quarter of a pound 
bruised ginger root, half an ounce tartaric acid, two 
pounds and a half white sugar, whites of three eggs, 
well beaten, one teaspoonful lemon oil and one gill 
yeast. Boil the root for thirty minutes in one gallon 
of the water, strain off, and put the oil in while hot. 
Mix, make over night, and in the morning skim and 
bottle, keeping out sediments. 

Elderberry Wine. 

Elderberry juice two quarts, water one quart and 
brown sugar three pounds. Jam the elderberries 
well, squeezo out the juice and measure it. If you 



344 ILLINOIS COOK BOOS. 

rinse out the juice that remains in the squeezed ber- 
ries, measure it or the water you pour on it, and 
reckon it as so much of the water you are to add. 
The above will make a very rich wine, but half water, 
with three pounds of sugar to the gallon of liquid will 
be a very good wine. After dissolving thoroughly the 
sugar in the liquid, fill the vessel full ; set it in a cool 
place to ferment, and pour off all impurities and keep 
the vessel full by adding some of the liquid kept in 
reserve for that purpose, or fill up with water. 
When the fermentation is nearly or quite done, stop 
the vessel tight and let it stand, the longer the better ; 
will be good in a few weeks, but much better in a few 
years. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Select the ripest blackberries, mash them well; put 
them into a jelly bag in small quantities and squeeze 
out all the juice ; for every quart of juice allow one 
pound white sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving 
kettle and pour the juice over it. When the sugar is 
all melted, set it on the fire ; add half an ounce cloves, 
allspice and cinnamon. Boil till well cooked, and 
when cold, to every quart of syrup add half a pint of 
French brandy. Stir all well together and bottle the 
cordial for use. It is best to pound the spices and tie 
them in a thin piece of muslin, to prevent having to 
strain again. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 345 

Acid jRoyal. 

( MRS. P. B. PRICE. ) 

Three ounces citric acid dissolved in one quart of 
water ; cover the cherries with it and let it stand six 
or eight hours ; strain off the juice and pour it on an- 
other bowl of cherries, and let that remain the same 
length of time ; then strain and add to each pint of 
juice one pint of white sugar. Boil it in a porcelain 
kettle ; skim, bottle and cork while hot. 



NogThe Best Ever Made. 

The yelks of sixteen eggs, twelve tablespoonsful of 
loaf sugar; beat to the consistency of cream, to this 
add two-thirds of a nutmeg; beat well together; mix 
in half pint best brandy, a glassful Jamaica rum and 
two wine glassesful of madeira wine; have the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth and stir into the above mixture. 
When done, stir in six pints rich sweet milk. 



Cocoanut Candy. 

Pare and cut half a pound cocoanut in strips or 
grate; dissolve half a pound loaf sugar with two 
tablespoonsful hot water; boil and stir in cocoanut. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Sugar Candy. 

(MRS. BTINN. ) 
One quart white sugar, one pint water, a lump of 

26 



346 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful vinegar 
and the same of vanilla. Pull till white ; try in a 
little water before taking up, if hard and crisp, it is 
done ; put the vanilla in after the candy is taken from 
the stove before putting the pans to cool. 

Butter Scotch. 

( MRS. WM. TURNEY. ) 

One cupful sugar, one cupful molasses, one table- 
spoonful water, one large tablespoonful butter and a 
teaspoonful vinegar. Flavor with lemon. 



Cream Candy. 

( MRS. WM. TURNEY. ) 

Three pounds loaf sugar and half a pint water. 
Cook on a slow fire for half an hour ; add one tea- 
spoonful dissolved gum arabic and one tablespoonful 
vinegar. Boil until brittle and pull into long sticks. 



Cocoa Candy. 

The whites of four eggs, half pound sifted sugar 
and grated cocoanut. Stir together until stiff; then 
form into cakes and bake in a moderate oven until 
brown. 



To Keep Silver Always Bright. 

Silver, in constant use, should be washed every day 
in a pan of suds made of good white soap and warm 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 347 

water ; drying it with old soft linen cloths. Twice a 
week (after this washing) give it a thorough brighten- 
ing with finely powdered whiting, mixed to a thin paste 
with alcohol, rubbing longer and harder where there 
are stains. Then wipe this off, and polish with clean 
soft old linen. Silver is cleaned in this manner at the 
best hotels. 



To Destroy Worms in Garden Walks. 

Pour into the worm holes a strong lye made of 
wood ashes, lime and water ; or, if more convenient, 
use for this purpose strong salt and water. 

To Clean Brass. 

Rub the tarnished or rusted brass by means of a 
cloth or sponge, with diluted acid, such as sulphuric, 
or even with strong vinegar. Afterward wash it with 
hot water to remove the acid, and finish with dry 
whiting. 

A Strong Paste for Paper. 

To two large spoonfuls of fine flour put as much 
pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling ; mix with as 
much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, 
and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 



Preserving Eggs for Winter. 

Pack them in a clean vessel, with the small end 
down, strewing bran between each layer, then place 



348 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

one or two thicknesses of brown paper over the top, 
and cover with about an inch or an inch and a half of 
salt. Cover close and keep in a cool place, and they 
will be much better than the old method of salting 
down, which only hardens them. 

To Tell Good Eggs. 

If yon desire to be certain that your eggs are good 
and fresh, put them in water ; if the buts turn up, they 
are not fresh. This is an infallible rule to distinguish 
a good egg from a bad one. 

Currant Wine. 

( MRS. DICK YOUNG. ) 

One quart currant juice, two quarts water and three 
pounds good brown sugar. Put into a cask, leave the 
bung out till fermentation has ceased, then rack off 
and bottle. Squeeze the juice out of the currants 
without heating them, and to every quart of the juice 
use the above proportion. 

Blackberry and Currant Wine. 

( MRS. ABLE. ) 

To every gallon of fruit put one quart of watei 
boiling hot; let it stand overnight; then extract the 
juice, and to each gallon add three pounds of sugar. 
Put it in a keg and let it remain undisturbed for sev- 
eral weeks; then rack off and bottle. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 349 

Lemon Sherbet Without Lemons. 

( MRS. AGGIE KENNEY, KY. ) 

Two teaspoonsful of citric acid dissolved in a little 
water, one teaspoonful and a half essence of lemon, 
three coffeecupsful white sugar and one gallon water; 
when this begins to freeze add the whites of two eggs, 
well -beaten, and then freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 

( MRS. N. W. EDWARDS.) 

To one gallon of water a dozen and a, half lemons, 
squeeze out the juice, and add sugar sufficient to 
make a pleasantly sweet lemonade. Freeze it, and 
when nearly frozen, add the beaten whites of six 
eggs. Stir to mix well, then freeze well. 



Gelatine Jelly. 

Pour one pint cold water over half a box gelatine ; 
let it stand till soft ; add half pint boiling water, one 
pint madeira wine, three-quarters of a pound white 
sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful lemon acid and two 
drops essence lemon. 



Sherbet. 

(MRS. BEN. EDWARDS.) 

Boil in a quart of rich milk the rind of a lemon 
with a pound of loaf sugar ; when cool, put in the 
freezer and half freeze. Have ready the juice of five 



350 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

lemons and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth ; add a little sugar to the lemon juice. Add this 
mixture to the half frozen within the freezer, and let 
it freeze solid. 



Currant Wine. 

(MRS. N. W. BROAD WELL .) 

To each gallon of bruised fruit, add one gallon of 
water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain, and 
to each quart of the juice add one and a half or two 
quarts of water and one quart of sugar. Put in jugs 
and tie a thin cloth over the top for a few days, then 
put in the cork loosely till fermentation ceases. It 
can then be poured off and bottled. Cork tightly. 



Frozen Custard. 

( MRS. PERKINS. ) 

Two quarts new milk, four tablespoonsful of corn 
starch and six eggs. Heat the milk to nearly boiling, 
then add starch, which must be dissolved in a Itttle 
milk ; then add the eggs, well-beaten, with eight table- 
spoonsful of powdered sugar; let it boil up once or 
twice. Set the vessel containing this mixture in a 
vessel with boiling water, and let it boil in that. It 
will take a little longer, but will not burn if boiled in 
this way. Let this cool and then freeze. 



TT- V 



FISH. 



Pieh 



Boiled 30 

Boiled Cod * 

Baked 81 

Sauce 81 

Cod Cakes 32 

Spiced 32 

Fried 32 

Broiled 

Cat 38 



If the Liquor is too salt 

Boiled Ham 47 

Tongues 47 

Mutton Hams, (for Drying) 48 

For Corned Beef 48 

Sugar Cured Hams 48 

Beef and Mutton 49 

Ribs of Beef 50 

Mutton Chops 50 

Leg of Mutton 50 

Pork Steaks. . 51 

Spare Ribs 51 



E. R R A T A . 



PAGE 9. Loaf should be soap. 

PAGE 202 MARBLE CAKE, (MRS. RYAN'S.) The white part 
should be well-flavored with lemon. The dark part should 
have halt' a tablespoonful, each, ot spices. 

PAGE 198 LADY CAKE. Should have one cup sweet milk 
instead of half cup, and one teaspoonful soda instead of half 
teacupt'ul. 

PAGE 226 SPONGE CAKE, (MRS RYAN.) Ten ounces flour, 
instead of sixteen. 

PAGE 239 IMPERIAL CAKE, (MRS. HODGES.) Should be two 
pounds raisins; one pound of them chopped, the other pound 
whole. 

PAGE 67 MOCK VENISON. Should be 7imc?-quarter. 

PAGE x:17. GINGER CAKES. Teacup, instead of coffee cup. 



INDEX 



PAGE. 

Advice to Housekeepers... .... 7 

To Young Housekeepers 12 

House Furnishing 13 

Advice to Mothers 14 

Modern Cookery and House- 
hold Management 16 

Four Good Points 19 

Four Important Rules 19 

Remarks 20 

Spoiling 21 

SOUPS. 

Soups... 23 

Beef 24 

Mutton 24 

Portable 24 

Mock Turtle 25 

Veal 26 

Giblet 26 

Chicken.... 26 

Gumbo -' 27 

Oyster 28 

Winter 29 

Noodles for Soup 28 

Veal Broth 29 



FISH. 



Fish 



Boiled | 

Boiled Cod 31 

Baked 31 

Sauce 

Cod Cakes 32 

Spiced 32 

Fried 32 

Broiled 88 

Cat 88 



Fish 

Fried Cod 84 

Boiled 85 

Clam Fritters 87 

Potted Shad 87 

Stewed Halibut 40 

Cod Cakes, (A Yankee Dish) 40 

Fried Perch 41 

Curry 41 

Sauce 42 

Fried Oysters 83 

Stewed Oysters 84, 

Scalloped Oysters 34 

To Make Stewed Oysters Tender. 35 

French Stewed Oysters 86 

A Codfish Relish 41 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish 41 

MARKETINGS 

Beefsteaks 43 

Roasting Pieces 48 

Corned Beef Pieces 44 

A Stuffed Flank 44 

Time for Boiling Meat 45 

Fresh Killed Meat 45 

Take Care of the Liquor 46 

If the Liquor is too Salt 46 

Boiled Ham 47 

Tongues 47 

Mutton Hams, (for Drying) 48 

For Corned Beef 48 

Sugar Cured Hams 48 

Beef and Mutton 49 

Ribs of Beef 50 

Mutton Chops 50 

Leg of Mutton 50 

Pork Steaks. 51 

Spare Ribs 51 






354 



INDEX. 



PJ 
Sausage Meat 


LGE. 

51 
52 
52 
52 
53 
54 
54 
54 
55 
55 
56 
56 
56 
56 
57 
58 
58 
59 
59 
60 
60 
61 
61 
62 
62 
63 
63 
63 
64 
64 
64 
65 
66 
66 
66 
67 
67 
68 
68 
68 
68 
68 
69 
70 
70 
70 
71 
71 
72 
72 
72 
73 
73 
73 
74 
74 
; 74 
75 


PJ 

Sandwiches, (Very Fine) 
Fricasseed Chicken 
Roast Turkey 


GE. 

75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
78 
79 
79 
79 
80 
80 
81 
81. 
82 
83 
82 
83 
84 
84 
85 
85 
86 

87 
88 
88 
88 
88 
89 
89 
89 
90 
90 
91 
91 
92 
92 
93 
93 
94 
108 
93 
91 
96 

as 

99 
99 
94 
94 
95 
95 
96 
97 


Tender-Loin 


Pigs Feet 


Shoulder and Ham 


Goose 


Curing and Smoking Ham 


Ducks 


Packing Beef 


Egg Frizzle . . .... 


To Try Out Lard 


Sauce for Roast Beef or Mutton. 
Croquettes 
An Economical Dish . . . 


Mutton . 


Shoulder ... 


Leg Boiled 


French Stew 


Cooking a Loin 


Potatoes Roasted under Meat 
For a French Pot au Feu 


The Neck and Breast 
The Haunch 


Good, Plain Family Irish Stew. . 
How to Cut a Chicken to Fry 
Rahhits Stewed 


Venison Fashion 
Beef a la Mode 


Beef Patties 


Pot Pie 


To Hash a CalFs Head 


Broiled 




Potted 


Minced Beef 


Broiled Quails 


Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 


Stewed Prairie Chicken 


Beef's Heart 


Chicken Fried 


Beef Collops . 


Salad 
Smothered or Baked. .. 
Mayonaise 


Beef a la Mode 


Beefsteak Pie 


Staffordshire Beefsteak . .... 


To CookJCalf s or Beef's Liver. . . 
VEGETABLES. 
Vegetables 


To Mince Beef 


Potted Beef 


To Stew a Brisket of Beef 
Beef Balls 


Beefsteak with Onions 


To Boil Them 


Head Cheese 


Take Care to Wash. . 
To Have Clean 


Roast Pig 


Tripe Stewed 


When They Sink.... 
To Preserve Color... 
Potatoes . . . 


Lamb to Fry 


Calfs Head Pie 




Cakes 


Mutton Hash . . . 


Boiled 


Veal 


Mashed 


Fillet ... ..." .. 


Baked 


Loin 


Fried Whole 




Escolloped 

Saratoga Fried 
Fritters 


Neck 


Curried 


Patties 


Plain Fried 
Snow 


Pie 


Southern Stewed 


Cakes 


Cutlets, (To Stew) 


French Batter for Vegetables 
Tomato Omelet 




Stew 
Pudding . . . 


Oyster Pie 


Loaf 


To Broil 


Pie, 


To Bake 


Stuffing 


Squash 


Minced 


Turnips 


Patty. 


String Beans 


Breast 


Succotash, or Corn and Beans. . . 
Sweetbreads and Cauliflowers . . . 
To Stew Red Cabbage 


Dressed with White Sauce . . 
Minced 



INDEX. 



355 



PAGE. 

Egg Plant 109 

Fried 97 

Fricasseed 99 

Green Corn Dumplings 97 

in Winter 98 

Pudding for Meat. . . 109 

Beeta 99 

Young 108 

Parsnips 100 

Cabbage 100 

Asparagus 100 

Peas 101 

Cold 109 

String Beans 101 

Mushrooms to Preserve 101 

Stewed in Gravy. . 102 

Sweet Potatoes Baked 102 

Roasted 102 

Boiled 108 

Fried 103 

Summer Squash 108 

Greens and Sprouts 104 

Spinage 104 

Slaw 105 

Hot 105 

To Bake Beans 106 

Hominy 106 

Cucumbers 107 

Salsify 107 

Corn 106 

on the Cob 107 

Another Way to Cook 107 

Cold 109 

Onions to Boil 108 

Fried 108 

EGGS. 

Omelet with Cheese 110 

Omelet 110 

Eggs Hard Boiled Ill 

Omelet (Very Fine) Ill 

Poached Ill 

Pickled 112 

to Keep 112 

Plain Boiled 112 

aFArdennaise 113 

surle Plat 118 

Buttered 118 

Balls 114 

BREADMAKING & YEAST. 

Yeast Hop 115 

Grated Potato 116 

Bottled or Jug 116 

Bottled 117 

Mashed Potato 117 



PAGE 

Yeast, to Make 121 

Milk 121 

Kentucky for Rolls 139 

Kentucky Buttermilk 139 

Sally Lunn 118 

Snails 119 

Biscuit, Soda 119 

Soufle 120 

Butter 122 

Beat 139 

Milk 141 

Beaten 144 

Buns 122 

English 129 

Spanish 132 

Brown Bread 127 

French 127 

Steamed 127 

Boston 128 

Boiled 128 

Brown Bread 141 

Boiled Bread 140 

Brown Bread 145 

Cracked W heat for Breakfast 146 

Corn Oysters 135 

Corn Bread 142 

Good 142 

Corn Bread 145 

Cake, Bread 119 

Cream 120 

Common Bread 121 

Rye Drop 124 

Pop Overs 125 

Sour Milk Griddle 125 

Buckwheat 126 

Buckwheat with Sour Milk 126 

Corn Meal 126 

English Tea 128 

Johnny 182 

Light 183 

Little Milk 134 

Rye Drop 187 

Flour Griddle 187 

Graham Flour 140 

Corn Cake 144 

Crackers 144 

Fritters 135 

Spanish 185 

Potato 136 

Potato ..' 188 

"Peculiars," or Graham Puffs.,.. 122 

Rusk 123 

Rusk 131 

Rolls, Dutch 123 

French 129 

Sally Lunn without Yeast 130 

Rice Corn Bread 131 

Tomato Toast 134 



356 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Muffins 125 

Raised 124 

Hominy 183 

Mush 140 

Mush 146 

Rice 147 

Sally Lunn 146 

Waffles 126 

German 124 

Yankee 136 

German 136 

Cheap 142 

Graham Gems : 137 

Pancakes, New England 184 

Cream 143 

Quire of Paper 148 

PASTRY. 

Very Rich Crust for Tarts 148 

PieCrust 148 

Family 148 

Pie Crust 152 

Puff Paste 149 

French Pastry 149 

Mince Meat. . v 151 

Strawberry Short Cake 153 

Mince Meat 158 

Peach Cobbler 158 

Piecrust Glaze 167 

Strawberries Stewed for Tarts... 171 

Pie Plant, Short Cake 172 

Pies, Apple 149 

Belleflower Apple 150 

French Apple 150 

Pumpkin 150 

Dried Peach 152 

Cranberry 152 

Pie Plant 152 

Cocoanut 153 

Soda Cracker . . 154 

Cream 154 

Cream 155 

Golden 155 

Cream 156 

Transparent 156 

Delicate 156 

Cracker 157 

Lemon 157 

Cracker Mince 158 

Gooseberry 159 

Lemon 159 

Lemon 160 

Potato 160 

Lemon 160 

Mush 161 

Silver 161 

Lemon 162 



PAGE. 
Pies, Mince ...................... 162 

Cream ...................... 162 

Golden ..................... 168 

Cream ...................... 163 

Egg Mince ................ 163 

Molasses ................... 164 

Mince ...................... 164 

Delicate ................ 165 

Cream ......... ............ 165 

Lemon ..................... 166 

CornStarch .............. 166 

Transparent ........ -------- 167 

Stewart, (Splendid) ........ 167 

Summer Mince ............ 168 

Mince without Meat ....... 168 

Lemon Mince .............. 169 

Lemon .................... 169 

Lemon ..................... 169 

Mince ...................... 170 

Apple Custard ............. 170 

Georgetown, Ky ........... 170 

Lemon .................... 171 

Lemon ..................... 171 

Cheap Lemon .............. 172 

Cream ..................... 173 



CAKES. 

General Directions for Making.. 
A Fine Icing for Cake ........... 

Coldlcing ....................... 

Receipt for Icing ............ 

Almond Icing for Wedding Cake 
Almond Icing .................... 

Sugar Ice ........................ 

Icing for Cake ................... 

Orange Paste .................... 

Cakes, Black .................... 

Currant .................. 

Custard .................. 

White ................... 

Cream ................. 

Ice Cream ............... . 

Soft Ginger ............. 

Doughnuts .............. 

Citron .................... 

Cottage ................. 

Delicious ................ 



Tipsy 
Silver 

Ginger Snaps 
Drop 
Fruit 
Spice 

Ginger Snaps 
Rolled Jelly 
Macaroons 
Tea . . 



175 
176 
178 
179 
193 
220 
220 
225 
239 
176 
177 
177 
177 
178 
178 
179 
179 
180 
ISO 
181 
181 
182 
182 
182 
183 
183 
185 
185 
185 
185 



INDEX. 



357 



PAGE. 

Cakes, Black 186 

Doughnuts 187 

Silver 187 

Cream Tea 187 

Fruit 188 

Cocoanut 188 

Coffee 189 

Delicate 189 

Kailroad 189 

Sponge 190 

Cocoanut Pound 190 

Sponge 190 

Chocolate Puffs 190 

Cocoanut 191 

Ginger Snaps 191 

Jumbles 191 

Fruit 192 

White Sponge 192 

White 192 

White Mountain 192 

Pork 193 

Fruit 194 

Almond Macaroons 194 

Feather 195 

cup 195 

White Cake 195 

Sponge 196 

Jumbles ." 196 

Rose 196 

Cocoanut Jumbles 197 

Mountain 197 

Lady 198 

Fruit 198 

Almond 199 

Pound 199 

White 199 

Cup 200 

Sponge 200 

Fruit 200 

Cream Sponge 201 

Union 201 

Harrison 201 

Delicate 202 

Marble 202 

Fancy 203 

Aunty's 203 

Cocoanut 204 

Sponge 204 

Snow 204 

White 205 

Ambrosial. 205 

Sponge 205 

Silver 206 

Gold 206 

Starch 206 

Corn Starch, (No. 2) 207 

Milwaukee 207 

Tipsy, (Sponge) 207 



PAGE. 
Cakes, Chocolate Macaroons ... 208 

Chocolate 208 

Lemon 209 

Filling for 209 

Golden 209 

Jane's Cream 210 

Cocoanut 210 

Cookies 211 

Cookies 211 

Plum 211 

Excellent Cookies 212 

Jumbles 212 

Coffee 212 

Sponge 218 

Marble 213 

Molasses Cup 214 

Water Cookies 214 

Soft Ginger 215 

Soft Ginger 215 

Ginger Snaps 216 

Ginger 217 

Jumbles 217 

Raised without Eggs 218 

Ginger Snaps 218 

Lou's Ginger Snaps 218 

Almond 219 

Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 1. 219 
Cocoanut Jumbles, No. 2. 220 

Tea or Coffee 221 

Pork, without Butter, 

Eggs or Milk 221 

Cider 222 

Roll Jelly 223 

Dried Apple 223 

White Fruit 224 

Ginger Pound 225 

Crullers 225 

Cookies 226 

Pork 226 

Sponge 226 

Crullers 227 

Doughnuts 227 

Snow, (Very Fine) 227 

Cream Jelly 228 

Whit? Sponge 228 

Newport 229 

Crullers 229 

Ammonia 280 

White 230 

Ginger 230 

Ginger Snaps 281 

Snow 231 

Cocoanut Macaroons 232 

Orange 232 

Ice Cream 232 

Sponge 238 

Sponge 233 

Cream... .. 233 



358 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Cakes, Railroad 234 

Common Crullers 234 

Soft Crullers. 234 

Rice 236 

Corn Starch 236 

Tea 236 

White 237 

Almond Pound 237 

Cookies 238 

Doughnuts 288 

Crullers 238 

Citron Marble 239 

Imperial 239 

Irish 240 

Jumbles 240 

Doughnuts 241 

Splendid Cookies ... 241 

Swiss Cream 237 

Cocoanut Jumbles 235 

Cocoanut Cookies., 229 

Cocoanut Jumbles, 197 

Gingerbread, Sponge 184 

Soft 215 

Sponge 216 

Soft 217 

Soft 218 

Soft.- 231 

PUDDINGS. 

Directions 243 

Sauce, Brandy or Wine 245 

Lemon 245 

Pudding 246, 247, 265 

Cold 246 

BoiledRice 246 

Liquid . . . . , 247 

Butter and Sugar 247 

Brandy 248 

Wine 248 

Mrs. R.'s Pudding 248 

Sweet 249 

Rich Lemon 249 

Puddings, Chinese Fun 249 

Potato. 250, 265, 279, 287 

Potato 290 

Brown 250 

Baked Indian 251 

Steam 251, 275, 276 

Florentine 252 

German 252 

Batter 253, 256, 279 

Pound, (Steamboat). 253 

Tapioca 255, 256 

Rice 255,258 

Plum 255,268 

Sago 257, 276 

Blanc Mange & Fruit. 257 
Sponge., 257 



PAGE. 

Puddings, Snow (Splendid)... 258 

Lemon ... 259 

Eve's 259 

Farina 259 

Rice and Apple 260 

Cream 260, 282 

An Excellent 260 

Plain Boiled 261 

Orange 261, 283 

Bread 262, 269 

Apple and Paste 262 

Meringue Rice 263 

Transparent 266, 290 

Apple Roll, or Apple. 266 

Soda 266 

Soufflee 267, 292 

Orange Marmalade.. 267 

Nursery 267 

Bread and Butter. ... 268 

Brown Charlotte 268 

Plum, (Plain) 268 

Molasses 269 

Cracker Fruit 269 

Suet 270,271,276 277 

Suet 287 

Boiled English Plum 271 

English Plum 272 

The Queen 273 

Sallie s Meringue .... 273 

Apple Potato 274 

A Welsh 274 

Baked Fruit 274 

Christmas Plum 275 

Jersey 275 

Kentucky 278 

Nameless 278 

Boiled 279 

Meringue Rice 279 

Pumpkin 280 



Jelly 281 

Canary 281 

Macaroni 281 

Corn Meal 282 

Cottage 282, 292 

Raisin 283. 

Frozen Almond 284 

Almond 284 

Citron 285 

Poor Man's 287 

French 288 

Cocoanut 289, 293 

Marlborough 289 

Boiled Loaf 291 

Sutherland 292 

RodGrod 293 

To Make Hen's Nest 294 

ATrifle 294 

Gooseberry Cream 294 



INDEX. 



359 



PAGE. 

Cheap Dessert 250 

German Puffs 251 

Lemon Drops 256 

Custard 254, 258, 259 

Cranberry Eoll :. 262 

Cream '.262, 263 264. 265 

Charlotte Russe 264, 270 

Dumplings. Light Dough 264 

Lemon Apple 272 

Dried Peach 286 

Dried Apple 286 

Green Apple 286 

Tapioca for Puddings 291 

RolyPoly 270 

PICKLES. 

General Directions 297 

Pickles, Cauliflower 298 

Martinoes 298 

Cabbage 298,302, 818 

Grape . . . ; 299 

Peach Mangoes 299 

Peaches... 299, 300,808, 311 

Nasturtiums 800 

Sweet Cherry 300 

Watermelon Rind 301 

Tomato 801, 305, 306 

Sweet Tomato 814 

Chopped Mixed 301 

Cucumber 302, 317 320 

Oysters...., 302 

Butternuts 302 

Mangoes 303 

Chow-Chow .... 304, 312, 820 

Onions 304, 308, 816 

Plums 804, 313 

Cucumbers and Onions 305 

Eggs 305 

East India 306 

Buck and Breck 807 

Chopped 308 

Sweet. 809 

Gherkins 309 

Mushrooms 309 

Yellow 312 

Virginia Damson 318 

Damson Sweet 319 

Melon Sweet 319 

Yellow Cabbage 320 

Cabbage Salad 316 

Peach Pickles 317 

Pepper Mangoes 817 

Catsup, Tomato . . . .310, 311, 314, 316 

Pepper 310 

Chopped 811 

Walnut 813 

Plum 318 

Universal Sauce 314 



PRESERVES. 

PAGE. 

General Directions .............. 321 

Canning Fruits .............. 323, 324 

Corn .................... 388 

Preserves, Plums ............... 334 

Plums without Skins 325 
Pears ............. 326, 834 

Cantelope Rind ...... 885 

Strawberries ......... 327 

Quinces Whole ...... 332 

Citron ................ 836 

Cherry ............... 887 

Tomato .............. 327 

Pears for the Table ......... 327, 334 

Currants for Tarts ............... 826 

Jelly, Apple or Quince ........... 327 

Cranberry .................. 328 

Currant ........... 329, 330, 335 

Apple ..................... 829 

Crab Apple ............... 331 

Quince .................... 332 

Raspberry ............... 835 

Damson Sauce ................... 338 

Jam, Currant ................... 329 

Marmalade, Crabb Apple ........ 330 

Apple ........ 330, 381 

uince ............... 822 

387 



Quince 
Tomato 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 839 

Italian Snow . . 389 

Itallienne Ice 340 

Strawberry Water Ice 340 

Lemon Ice 340 

Pineapples 341 

Peaches 341 

Ice Cream 341 

Lemon Syrup, (To Save Lemon). 841 
Cream Soda, (This is Splendid.). 342 

Cheap Ice Cream 342 

j Wine Jelly 343 

; Splendid Ginger Pop 343 

I Elderberry Wine 343 

j Blackberry Cordial 344 

i Acid Royal 845 

! Egg Nog, the Best Ever Made.. 345 

j Cocoanut Candy 845 

! SugarCandy 345 

i Butter Scotch 346 

j Cream Candy 345 

j CocoaCandy 346 

To Keep Silver Always Bright. . . 346 
To Destroy Worms in Garden 

Walks 847 

To Clean Brass 347 

A Strong Paste for Paper 847 

i Preserving Eggs for Winter 34T 



360 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

To Tell Good Eggs 348 

Currant Wine 348 

Blackberry and Currant Wine... 348 
Lemon Sherbet without Lemons. 349 



PAGE. 

Lemon Ice 349 

Sherbet 849 

Currant Wine 350 

Frozen Custard 350 




ID. 



DEALER IN 



PROVISIONS! 

Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

MOJSTKOE STKEET, 
Opp. the Postoffice, SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 

A. S. EDWARDS. J. P. BAKER. CHAS. EDWARDS. 

EDWARDS, BAKER&CO., 




WINES, ZiZQORS A CIGARS, 

Monroe St., bet, 5th and 6th Sts., 

Branch Store West Side of 5th, third door South of Jefferson Street, 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 



JOHN T. STUART, Jr., 

Hast Side Square, - - SPRINGFIELD. 




MILLINERY, SMALL WARES, Etc. 

The Cheapest Line of DOMESTIC GOODS in the City. 
But t crick "K Pattern*, in K very Size and Style. 

AGENTS FOB THE SALE OF THE CELEBRATED 

Eug. Montalent Paris Seamless Kid Glove. 

Price, $1.BO. 
W. R. BRASFIELD. R. C. STEELE. 

BRJLSFIELD & STEELE, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 



Provisions, Salt, Wooden and "Willow Ware, 



All Kinds of Country Produce Wanted. 



Monroe House, cor. Monroe and Fifth 8ts., 
Springfield, 111. 



OWEN'S 

COMPOUND CONCENTRATED FLUID EXTRACT OF 

Sarsa par ilia 

AND 

Stillingia, with Iodide of Potash. 

For Purifying the Blood and Eenovating the System. 



Performing a radical cure of the following diseases, all of which arise from 
a foul condition of the blood : 

King's Evil or Scrofuia, Glandular Swellings l"l- 
cers of Every Kind, Old Sores, All Skin Dis- 
eases, Sueli as Tetter, Ringworm, Pimples, 
Eruptions Boils, Sealdhead, Fever Sores, 
Weeping Sore L,eg ; Every Variety Ven- 
ereal or Syphilitic Diseases, Neu- 
ralgia, Mercurial Rheumatism, 
White Swelling, Hip Joint 
Diseases Chronic Erysipe- 
las, etc., etc., etc. 

COMPOSED OF VEGETABLE PRODUCTS ONLY!! 

Tt is harmless as well as effectual. Most alteratives now in market contain 
mercury or arsenic. We will give any chemist in America $1,000 who will 
detect one grain of metalic medicine in our preparation of Sarsaparilla and 
Stillingia. OWEN'S SARSAPARILLA has been made and sold in Springfield 
for 25 years, and we have yet to hear of the first case where it has failed to 
perform all we claim for it. Although our preparation is put up in smaller 
bottles than some other similar preparations in market, it is cheapest being 
highly concentrated and the dose smaller in proportion. 

Prepared Only by T. J. V. OWEN, Pharmacist. 

Owen Buctiu Manufacturing Co,, Sole Prop's, 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
H5f~ SOLI> BY .AJLL IXRTJOGrTSTS. jffl 

Our Sarsaparilla and Potash is concentrated so as to be four 
times the strength of all other one dollar Sarsaparillas. 



Compound Fluid 

Is a Reliable Preparation for the Permanent Cure of 

KIDNEY DISEASES, 

And those Rheumatic and Dropsical Difficulties so often arising 
from disturbances of the functions of the Kidneys. Thous- 
ands suffer from Rheumatism, who direct their 
attention to that disease only, when 
the Kidneys are really the seat 
of the disorder and a 

FEW BOTTLES OF 

Owen's Extract Of Buclm 

Would remove the trouble and effect a permanent Cure, Tne same is true of 

Gravel, Irritation of the Bladder 

Brick Dust Deposits, Milky Discharges, 

Early Indiscretion, L.OSS of Power, 

Loss of Memory, Weak Nerves. 

Trembling, Dimness of Vision, 

Wakefuliiess, Hot Hands, 

Dryness of the Skin, Pain in the Back, 

Eruptions on the Face, Horrors, 

Confused Mind, Private Diseases, &<., &c 

OWEN'S EXTRACT OF BUCHTJ, 

Has proved itself to be the most reliable and efficient remedy, for 

Female Weakness, Debility, Flour Albus or Whites, etc. 

IT IS THE BEST SPECIFIC KNOWN. 

For Sale \>y All Drag-gists. 
Prepared by T. J. V. OWEN, Pharmacist, 

OWEN BlICHU MA1FACTUR11 CO., Proprietors, 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 



JOHN H. JOHNSON, 




and 

dull 




BOOKBINDER, 

BOOK & JOB PRIHTER, 

AND 

BTAW7 HIM lyrAKHIfiAnTTTOT 

1)LAM DuUl lAJiUrAuluiiM, 

West Side Square, 

SPRINGFIELD, IILUNQIS, 

HAS always on hand a fine assortment of 

SCHOOL. BOOKS Affl> SCHOOL, APPARATUS, 
SLATES, INSTANDS, Etc., 

Gold Pens, Penholders, Pencils and Pencilcases f 

Law, Medical and Micellaneous Books, Letter and 

Note Paper and Envelopes of every description, 

Yisting Cards, Pocket Books, Portfolios, 

Drawing Materials, Stereoscopes and 

Yiews, Writing Desks, Ladies' 

Work Boxes, Pocket Knives, 

And every article pertaining to a First Class BOOK AND 
STATIONERY ESTABLI8MENT. 

PRINTING AND BOOKBINDING 

Of every kind done on the shortest notice, and in the very best 

Style, AT REASONABLE RATES. 

OLD BOOKS EEBOUND. 



The binding of this book was 
restored The spine was rebacked 
with cloth, the corners anji board 
ed^es were repaired with Japanese 
paper. The original spine was 
reattached and the binding furbished 
with acrylic water color. 
Richard C. Baker, Conservator. 
St. Louis, March 2002, 



