THE 



FREE GRANT LANDS 



OF 



FROM PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE OF BUSH FARMING IN THE 
FREE GRANT DISTRICTS OF 



MUSKOKA AND PARRY SOUND, 



BY 



THOS. McMUEEAY, J. P., 

ONE OF THE FIRST SETTLERS IN DRAPER, AND EX-REEVE OF THE UNITED 
TOWNSHIPS OF DRAPER, MACAULAY STEPHENSON, ETC., ETC. 




BRACEBRIDGE, ONT., CANADA : 

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED AT THE OFFICE OF THE "NORTHERN ADVOCATE." 

1871. 



Entered according to Act of the Parliament of Canada, in the year One Thousand 
Eight Hundred and Seventy -one, by THOMAS McMuRRAT, in the office of the Minister 
of Agriculture. 



To the Ontario Government, in consideration of what it has done 
to improve the navigation and promote the development of the Free 
Grant Districts, this vroik is respectfully dedicated by 



THE AUTHOK. 



0f 




The Author hereby expresses his obligations to those persons who 
supplied much of the information contained in this work, and takes 
this opportunity oi returning his sincere thanks for the prompt atten 
tion which was paid to his enquiries. 



PREFACE. 



The fact of my being the first settler in the Township of Draper 
and first Eeeve of the united Townships of Draper, Macaulay, Stephen- 
son, &c., in the District of Muskoka, has given me considerable noto 
riety, hence I have received letters from all parts of the world asking 
for information about the country, and, although hard pressed for time 
I have always willingly responded to those appeals ; but, in the opinion 
of the Author, the time has now arrived in the history of the settle 
ment, when something more is wanted than a courteous reply to letters 
of enquiry. There are tens of thousands in the United Kingdom, and 
many even in Canada who are anxious to know whether this country- 
is fit for settlement or not. 

With a view, therefore, to put them in possession of the most reliable 
information, this work has been written. Having resided in the settle 
ment now for about ten years, during which I have closely watched its 
growth and development, and being in possession of many facts which 
must prove both interesting and instructive, I desire to give them the 
fullest publicity, so that others may be benefited by my knowledge 
.and experience. 

THOMAS McMURRAY. 
BRACEBRIDGE, 

21st February, 1871. 



CONTENTS. 



FRONTISPIECE. 

Dedication jj j 

A Card of Thanks v 

Preface ^j- 

History of the early settlement of Muskoka i;&gt; 

THE FREK GIIAXT LASDS CF MUSKOKA : 

Situation j^ 

Extent 1(J 

Climate j ^ 

Soil 17 

Timber j- 

Scenery j^- 

Crops jrj 

Roads o j 

Progress . 

Statistics.. .-&gt;- 

&gt;&gt; 

A new steamer o, ; 

Villages 26 

Bracebridge o- 

Gravenhurst OQ 

Severn Bridge 29 

Washago OQ 

Muskoka Falls 3^ 

View of Muskoka Falls, opposite 31 

Poem on " " 01 

Origin of the word Muskoka 32 

Port Carling &lt;j.-&gt; 

Port Sandfield o&gt; 

ilosseau o&gt; 

Hlpissing Junction oo 

Maganetawa n* 

Huntsville o^ 

Early Eeminiscences 35 

The Rice (juarrel or 

TVild Beasts o^- 

Indians 07 

Lost in the Woods 



[{ 



CONTENTS. 

What brought the writer to Muskoka 

Hints to Emigrants 

Queries and Answers 

Prices of necessary articles .o 

The route to Muskoka .q 

Inducements to Emigrate, 40 

Free Grants of Land 4^ 

The Settlers ^ 

The Backwoodsman s Song r* 

The advantages of Muskoka r^ 

The first Newspaper -p 

Agricultural Show ,-g 

Trade . . 

Go 

Sources of enjoyment /- 

The Sleigh ride /.,, 

The Wool-picking Bee ,.,j 

Concert r-. 

Social . . 



t- , 

Game ............................... ,-., 

Hunting ................................. 



. 






Fishing ............................ ........... _., 

Winter employment ...................... 

Extracts from the Surveyors Reports ................... 

The Friends of the Emigrant ................... ^o 

Rev. A. Styleman Herring, B.A .......................... y&lt; ( 

Hon. Mrs. Hobart ................................... ~ () 

Colonel Maude, C.B., V.C ............................. su 

Visit of the Members of the Ontario Government ............... 82 

Further developments ......................... o,. 

Bush Rangers .......................... S7 

Experimental Townships ............................ 8S 

R eligious and Educational .................... o/j 

Church Dedication ........................ q 

A Black Picture ............ _ 

********""* ............. *" ............... ...... &lt; *) 

Muskoka calmly considered ........................... 

The Press .................................................... ^ 

The Rev. Dr. Newton ............................... 114 

A Letter ......... : ..................................... Zl..;. . . !. . . .". . . . . . . . . . " . 109 

The Settlers Greatest Enemy ..................... 11- 

Railway to Bracebridge ............................. 11(} 

Anspn G. P. Dodge, Esq ....................... ]0 .-, 

THE FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND : 

Early settlement ..................... ,&gt;- 

Situation,. . 



CONTENTS. XI 

PAGE. 

Extent I2(&gt; 

Climate 127 

Soil 128 

Timber 128 

Scenery. ; 120 

Crops 12!) 

Roads 130 

Village of Parry Sound 130 

Facilities , ]32 

Who will succeed 133 

Fishing 133 

Township of McKellar 134 

A Reminiscence 135 

The Route 139 

Byng Inlet 130 

Extracts from Surveyors Reports 140 

Ontario 145 

Advertisements 147-148 



H I S T E Y 



OF THE 




Settlement 0f 




The Road was commenced at Washago, in 1858 ; Messrs. St. George 
and O Brien were the contractors. 

In the fall of 1859, Mr. R. J. Oliver was appointed Locating Agent at 
$4 per diem, under the Government of the Hon. John A. Macdonald ; 
Mr. P. M. Vankoughnet being Crown Lands Commissioner. On the 
1st of October, 1859, he met the settlers at the Severn Bridge and 
issued about 17 locations (on the Road only) James H. Jackson, 
William Johnson, and John Young, James McCabe, David Leith, and 
the Simingtons, were the first settlers in the Townships of Morrison 
and Muskoka. A small shanty had been opened as a tavern, and was 
kept by a brother-in-law (Mr. Swift) of the late John Tipping, Esq.,. 
J. P., of Orillia, who purchased 5 acres off lot No. 1, west from 
William Johnston. Donald Ferguson, a brave Highland Scotchman, 
was the first settler in the Township of Draper. At this period the 
road only extended to the South Falls, arid the bridge was not built ; but 
"Donald," nothing daunted, crossed the river and located on a lovely 
spot close to the Falls on the north side of the river. While lots oil 
the road were located in the fall of 1859, it was not till 1861 that the 
lands in the Townships of Morrison, Muskoka, Draper and Macaulay, 
were thrown upon the market, and at the same time Mr. R. J. Oliver 
was appointed Crown Lands Agent. It was in the month of May, in 
this same year, that the writer became a resident of Draper before the 
Township was entirely surveyed. I cannot but refer here to the bitter 
opposition which was manifested towards the Government by a portion 
of the Press and a number of gentlemen, for attempting to open up this 
part of Ontario ; every form of misrepresentation and abuse was sought 



14 EARLY SETTLEMENT OF MUSKOKA. 

after and circulated, and it was even asserted that it was only to 
" afford situations for their friends" that the country was opened up. 
The town of Barrie figured very conspicuously in their opposition to 
the settling up of the North ; among the fault finders we might name 
B., L. and M. ; but, as they have lived to see their error, we decline 
exposure; but, as a sample of the opinion in which Muskoka was held 
in those days, we may just state that M. told our author that "he 
would not pay the taxes on a single .100 acres of land for all the land 
north of the Severn. Muskoka has been much abused, still it had a few 
earnest friends who have done their duty nobly. Mr. R. J. Oliver 
fought many a hard battle and silenced many a foe. We find, on ex 
amination, that he wrote not less than 83 Editorials and Letters in 
defence of the country. Mr. J. C. McMullen has also been a true friend 
of the District ; and, by his willing pen, has won many friends in the 
settlement. 

Prominent amongst the early settlers stand the names of Mr. and 
Mrs. McCabe ; thej^tyened a tavern at Gravenhurst in 1861, and many 
a worn-out traveller has been glad to see their unpretentious log cabin 
where they might rest their weary limbs and get some refreshment to 
sustain nature. Never shall the writer forget his first interview with 
" Mother McCabe." When he arrived there, he was hungry and foot 
sore ; but Iw met with an " Trish welcome," and a dinner was served up 
by " Mother McCabe " which would not have disgraced any Hotel 
north of Toronto. The old log shanty looked dull outside, but within 
all was cleanliness and order ; her clean white curtains kept out the 
musquitoes in summer and cold in winter, while her feather beds 
afforded sweet rest to many a weary land-seeker. How welcome was 
the sight of the dim low light through the bush, to the weary traveller, 
can only be fully appreciated by the early pedestrians when no horses 
or vehicles were on the road ; there are hundreds in the settlement who 
remember them, and some of them have cause to bless "Mother McCabe" 
for her generosity. 

The first death in the settlement was that of poor Johnston ; he was 
drowned at the Severn bridge one Sunday whilst fishing. The poor 
widow struggled hard with her two little boys the elder not more than 
9 years and, with their help, she managed before she died to clear 
about 8 or 9 acres ; but, alas, fell in the harness. 



EARLY SETTLEMENT OF MUSKOKA. 15 

Mrs. William Gardiner and Mrs. Thomas McMurray gave birth to 
the first children in Draper, and Mrs. John Kelly to the first in Monck. 

The first lumber mill in the settlement was built in 1861, by John 
Everbeck, a German, on the Kah-she-she-bog-a-mog River, near Sparrow 
Lake, in the Township of Morrison ; the second was erected by James 
Grant ; the first grist mill also by James Grant, on the same stream 
where it crosses the Muskoka Eoad, 5 miles north of Washago. 



THE 

FREE GRANT LANDS 



OF 



SITUATION. 

Muskoka is conveniently situated, being only 121 miles distant from 
the City of Toronto. Its location is in a direct line in the overland route 
to the great North-West. Parties leaving Toronto in the morning can 
reach the settlement during the summer months in a day, and the trip 
is one of the most pleasant and attractive possible. The eastern and 
western boundaries are situated within and between 79 and 80 west 
from Greenwich. The geographical position of the settlement is good, 
forming as it does almost a bee-line of travel from Liverpool to Vancou 
ver. It is the shortest route by hundreds of miles from the Atlantic to 
the Pacific. Who can predict the future of this section of Ontario 1 If 
our Canadian Government would but manifest that enterprise which the 
importance of the case demands, before five years this route would be 

open. 

EXTENT. 

The District of Muskoka comprises say 40 townships, of about 40,000 
acres each, covering an area of over one million five hundred thousand 
acres of land, capable of affording homes for one hundred thousand souls. 

CLIMATE. 

The climate is mild, taking into consideration the latitude 45, N. . 
There is here perfect summer and perfect winter. The bracing atmos 
phere is very conducive to health, rendering it one of the healthiest cli 
mates under the sun. Save in cases of accident the doctor is seldom 
seen here. There are slight falls of snow in November, but it never lies 
till the beginning of December, when winter sets in. Snow continues to 
fall at intervals, till, in February, it sometimes attains a depth of 3 or 4 



SCENERY. 17 

feet. In March it begins to settle, but is not finally gone till the 8th or 
10th of April. In summer there is more moisture here than further 
south, owing to the greater elevation and vicinity to the lakes, from 
which cool breezes prevail. There is freedom from drought which is so 
mischievous below, rendering the district peculiarly favorable for stock- 
raising and the dairy. Owing to the salubrity of the climate and the 
mineral nature of the water, many, who were sickly before coming here, 
have since become healthy and strong. If we have somewhat more 
snow, we can fairly claim that, almost as soon as the snow is gone, the 
land is dry for the plough, and soon ready for the seed. Wheat sown 
in the last week of April will be ripe by the second week in August. 

Eains are abundant in spring and autumn. Fogs are rare. The hot 
test months of summer are July and August, and the coldest months of 
winter are January and February. During the winter months we enjoy 
almost without interruption a fine clear sky, and the atmosphere is pe 
culiarly bracing. The Indian summer, which generally occurs in Octo 
ber, is a delightful time of the year. The sleighing season, in winter, is 

also a pleasant period. 

THE SOIL. 

While large flats of clay are found in many places, the soil is mostly 
of a loamy nature. The average amount fit for cultivation will probably 
be two-thirds. One gratifying fact is that the land, on being cleared and 
cultivated, has turned out much better than was anticipated. 

TIMBER 

The timber south of Muskoka Falls is principally composed of pine 
of fair quality ; north of the Falls, a very perceptible change is notice 
able, the great proportion being composed of hardwood, consisting of 
maple, basswood, beech, birch, elm, &c. 



SCENERY. 

The scenery is varied, and in many instances extremely grand. At 
Beaver Creek, about 9 miles north of Washago, the rocks rise almost 
perpendicular near 200 feet, from the loftiest peak of which a deer, 
being closely pursued, is said to have leaped down in safety to the 
valley below and thereby escaped. 



1&gt;S FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

MUSKOKA LAKE 

Is one of the most cliarming sheets of -water in this Province. There 
are over 300 Islands dotting its surface, which, for beauty and variety, 
cannot be excelled. That portion of the Lake between Gravenhurstand 
the Narrows is exceedingly beautiful, and much admired by the lovers 
of nature. Mrs. John B. Eobinson, Mrs. Dodge, and other ladies who 
have travelled extensively, pronounce the scenery to be equal to any 
thing to be found on this continent. 

THE MUSKOKA EIVER 

Is very attractive and celebrated for the perfect reflection which is 
everywhere noticeable in fact, some declare that in this respect it is 
equal to the far-famed Lakes of Killarney. 

The Telegraph says : 

"LAKE EOSSEAU 

Is perhaps the most beautiful of the chain of water communication. 
It is particularly placid, filled with picturesque islands, and the shores 
arc wooded to the water s edge. In its general characteristics, it greatly 
resembles the celebrated Lakes of Killarney. The party landed at the 
head of the sheet of water, at a place named Sandy Cut, but which, 
before the party left, was duly christened Port Sandfield, in honor of 
the Hon. J. S. Macdonald." 

The Rev. Mr. Eogers, Presbyterian Minister, writes in the lleconl 
for January, 1871, that " This Lake is a perfect gem of beauty, about 
12 miles by 7, variegated by numerous islands, a place fit for a philoso 
pher s musing or a poet s fancy. This Lake will soon be connected with 
Lake Joseph by a short canal, a lake of larger dimensions and much 
spoken of for its lovely and variegated scenery. It is also being con 
nected in the same way to Lake Muskoka at Port Carling." 

Speaking of Lake Muskoka, he says : " The scenery on this Lake is 
unsurpassed by anything I have seen in the Dominion." 

LAKE ST. JOSEPH. 

This is a large and beautiful sheet of water connecting with Lake 
Eosseau at Port Sandfield. The land adjoining this Lake is principally 
timbered with hardwood and of very superior quality ; at one point it 
touches very close upon the Georgian Bay, where a shipping port and 



THE CROPS. 1 

town will in all probability shortly spring up ; true, there are other 
parts where they have less rock and can boast of better farming country; 
but there is no spot more healthy or romantic than this. Here the 
sportsman and the pleasure-seeker can enjoy the richest possible treat, 
and men with shattered constitutions may here have them repaired. 
Ye broken-down millionaires, fly hither and recuperate ! 

The Kev. Alex. Kennedy, of Pickering, writes under date 21st Dec., 
1870 :- 

" My intercourse with settlers, whether village or landward, gave me 
a highly favourable opinion of their intelligence, energy, self-reliance, 
and contentment. I do trust that, by diligent effort and sobriety, they 
will win for themselves prosperity in their forest homes. Of the soil and 
climate of the country my very limited knowledge forbids me to speak 
dogmatically ; but, from what I saw and learned, my conviction is that 
both are better than your rocky southern entrance and your northern 
latitude would lead a stranger to infer. But of your lake scenery I feel 
free to speak in the highest terms. It has been my lot to see many 
corners of creation in several and distant lands ; but, for romantic gran 
deur, I am not sure that I have seen anything to surpass Lake Musko- 
ka, with its all but countless islands and its rocky and wooded shores. 
Without much hazard of prophetic failure, the day may be predicted, 
and not far distant either, when the wealthy in our large cities will 
erect villas for the summer residence of their families on the healthful 
and enchanting shores of Lake Muskoka." 

THE CROPS. 

Splendid samples of wheat have been raised in the district, the yield 
being large and the grain of superior quality. From practical exper 
ience the writer feels confident that, by good tillage and by paying pro 
per attention to the rotation of crops, this staple can be profitably raised. 
Oats grow luxuriantly and pay well, we have seen as good oats here as- 
we ever beheld either in Ireland or Scotland, and recommend Scotchmen 
in particular to make Muskoka their home, for they will be certain to 
have an abundance of oat-cake and porridge. 

Indian corn does well in some localities. It has been successfully 
raised by the Indians since they can remember. 

Great crops of potatoes and turnips are also raised, and of the very 
best quality. Vegetables of all kinds do well. Apple trees, berry-bushes 



20 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

and all descriptions of fruit-bearing plants seem to do well. Clover and 
all the grasses are eminently successful even on the ridges ; such a thing 
as burnt-up pastures being almost unknown, the herbage being green 
and fresh from early spring till snow falls again in the autumn. In a 
warm and well-watered country like this, crops can be raised on soil 
that would be useless if subject to drought. 

Mr. Walter Sharp, of lots number 4 and 5 in the 13th concession of 
the Township of Draper, had 15 acres last year under oats, which yielded 
900 bushels, or 60 bushels to the acre. 

Mr. Andrew Thompson, Postmaster at Uffington, in the Township of 
Draper, and District of Muskoka, planted an early rose potatoe weighing 
one and three quarter ounces, and raised from the same sixteen and three- 
quarter pounds, thus yielding 153 times the quantity planted. 

The Rev. Mr. Rogers, Presbyterian minister, states in the Record 
for January, 1871. 

" The crops this year (1870) are excellent. I saw fields of oats that 
would yield 50 bushels per acre, also very good samples of wheat and the 
"best potatoes I have ever tasted. I saw also many patches of Indian 
corn, of excellent growth and fully matured, and ripe tomatoes in great 
abundance." 

The following is from the NortJiern Advocate : 

EARLY ROSE POTATOES. The Rev. Mr. Hill, of Peninsula Farm, 
Chaffey Township, planted two pounds of early rose potatoes, which 
yielded 224f pounds. At this rate an acre would produce between 
1100 and 1200 bushels. We place Muskoka against any county in On 
tario for potatoes. 

WATER MELONS. We have to thank Mr. Jacob Spence of the town 
ship of Draper for a valuable present of superior water melons just re 
ceived. It was once thought that melons would not ripen h^re, but 
this season has demonstrated that they can be raised, and that the qual 
ity is equal to any grown in Ontario. 

from the Report of ihc Commissioner of Agriculture and PvUic JVorJts 

for 1870. 

" I am glad to learn that most of those who have settled on the free 
grant lands seem to be satisfied with their choice. The excellent samples 
of wheat, oats, peas, &c., that were sent to my Department from the 
neighborhood of Bracebridge, which did not arrive in time for the Pro- 



EOADS. 21 

vincial Exhibition, clearly indicate the agricultural capabilities of the 
Muskoka District, which, with other extensive areas of fertile land in 
the course of being opened up to settlement in this Province, would 
afford homes of peace and plenty to thousands of industrious families in 
the mother country, that are now struggling with disappointment and want. 

" Respectfully submitted, 

"JOHN CARLING, 

"Commissioner. 
"TORONTO, January, 1871." 

ROADS. 

The prosperity of a country very much depends on the state of the 
roads, and speed and cheapness in travelling have a great deal to do 
with commercial success. This fact has been long recognized, and many 
improvements have been made in order to secure this most desirable 
end. Half a century ago, Macadam introduced his system which formed 
a new era in road making ; and, while we cannot boast of having ad 
vanced so far as to have much macadamized road, still we are highly 
favored beyond many settlers of former days. By the introduction of 
ditching along the sides of the roads and elevating the centres, vast 
improvements have been made; and the settlers have no cause to com 
plain, as the Government have done nobjy in this respect. 

The road from Washago to Muskoka Falls was commenced in 1858 ; 
again in 1864 the Government expended a large sum of money in doing 
repairs, when detours were made at Hock-rock and Golden Creek, 
which not only improved the road but added very much to the comfort 
of the settlers. In 1866, repairs were made on the Peterson Road 
(running through Draper) under the efficient superintendence of Mr. 
Oliver, whose engineering ability was ably manifested in the improve 
ments which he introduced. 

In 1866 the Parry Sound Road was completed, thereby connecting 
Lake Couchiching with the Georgian Bay at Parry Sound Harbor a 
distance of 80 miles ; since then the Government have pushed road- 
making through with vigor. A good plank and gravel road has been 
built between Washago and Gravenhurst, which is a great boon to the 
settlers. The Stevenson Road has also been extended and bridges 
built, thereby opening up a large section of good country. The Nipissing 
Road has also been opened up to the Maganetawan, and rapid improve 
ments are still going on. 



22 FREK (iltAXT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 



PROGRESS. 

It is a satisfaction to find that, with the confederation of the Provinces,, 
some life has been thrown into this movement, and a deeper interest is 
taken in the matter ; but it is only of late that this subject has met 
with that attention which it deserves. 

The results of the past two years have been most encouraging, and 
warrant increasing exertions in this important department. The Hon, 
John Oarling deserves the highest praise for the course he has pursued. 
He has done all that could reasonably be expected, and has shown him 
self to be " the right man in the right place ;" and, from the opportuni 
ties which the different members of the Government have had of 
judging of the success of those immigrants who have settled in this 
district, I feel confident that they will be prepared to lend every 
assistance in their power to promote, a scheme which is so good for 
individuals, and beneficial for the state. 

It cannot be said that there lias been a great rush at any time, still 
the settlement has made sure and steady progress, every year having 
added to its population and development. Morrison Township, the 
first through which you pass on entering the territory, possesses con 
siderable good land, although it is rough and rocky through that part 
penetrated by the Colonization Road ; still west of that and in the 
neighborhood of Sparrow Lake the soil is rich and the per centage of 
agricultural land large ; hence it has been settled by a very intelligent 
and industrious class of inhabitants ; schools and churches have been 
erected, mills and post-offices have been established, and the settlers 
begin to feel that brighter days await them. 

Muskoka Township, to the north of Morrison, has participated largely 
of the spirit of enterprise which has everywhere characterized the settle 
ment of this District. It can boast of Gravenhurst, a spirited and am 
bitious village, the centre of large lumbering operations, where the prin 
cipal part of the steam boat building of the north is carried on. This 
township contains a large number of settlers, including not only the in 
dustrious poor, but men of position and wealth. A. J. Alport, Esq., J. 
P., of Maple Grove, lias his home here. Wonderful improvements have 
been made in this township ; large clearances have been effected, and 
everything indicates great prosperity and perfect contentment. 



PROGRESS. 23 

Draper Township has not been lacking in that energy which has so 
strongly marked the history of the Muskoka Territory. The enterprise 
manifested by the two first settlers, Mr. Donald Ferguson (a Highland 
Scotchman), and the author, who is a Lowland Scotchman, has been 
largely imbibed by all who have succeeded them, so that the develop 
ment has been most rapid, as will be seen by a reference to the statistics 
furnished in another part of this work. One serious drawback to the 
settlement of this Township has been the difficulty of getting to the land 
on the north side of the Muskoka River. However, notwithstanding 
this hinderance, a large number of settlers have lately found their way 
thither, and the number is constantly increasing. 

The soil is very superior, and as bridges will shortly be built, it is 
reasonable to expect that very soon all the unoccupied lots will be 
taken up. 

Macaulay Township has great natural advantages, and is admirably 
situated. The head of navigation on the north branch of the Muskoka 
River, where the thriving village of Bracebridge now stands, touches 
the south-west corner of the Township. The soil is good, and settlers 
are rapidly filling up the Township. Settlement is progressing most 
favorably, the prospects are good, and Macaulay is destined to become 
one of the richest Townships in the District. 

Stephen son Township has made great headway during the past year ; 
hundreds of settlers have been induced to take up land there, so that 
it now compares favorably with any in this section. 

The settlers are improving in their circumstances ; and not only can 
they live, but many of them are saving money. 

Monck Township is very conveniently situated to the west of Macau- 
lay ; it also is advancing with sure and steady pace ; no one, in passing 
through this District, can fail to notice that the settlers do not believe 
in standing still ; for, wherever you go, progress and rapid improvement 
are observable. 

Watt Township has settled up quickly and the inhabitants are noted 
for their intelligence and perseverance ; new frame houses are taking 
the place of the old log cabins, and everything gives evidence of pros 
perity and success. Besides those already enumerated, the Townships 
of McLean, Brunei, Stisted, Chaffey, Cardwell, Wood and Medora, are 
filling up rapidly, and the accounts received from those who have located 
there are most favorable. 



24 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

In 1868, Muskoka was organized into a Territorial District, and a 
Stipendiary Magistrate was appointed ; the Crown Land Agency then 
became an appendage to that office, Mr. C. W. Lount receiving the 
appointment. 

As an evidence of the growth of the settlement, I may just state that* 
according to the Crown Lands Reports, only 163 persons located on 
wild lands in 1864 ; whilst the Hon. John Carling stated in the House 
of Assembly, on the 9th of December, 1870, that no less than 139,000 
acres of land had been taken up during that year in the Muskoka Dis 
trict alone, and I may add that the past success of the settlement is a 
sufficient guarantee to all who shall hereafter locate, that, with sobriety, 
industry and perseverance, they may succeed. 

The following statistics will enable the reader to mark the steady 
progress which the settlement is making. I submit the Townships of 
Draper, Macaulay and Stephenson, simply from the fact that I was 
Reeve of said Municipality. 



PROGRESS. 



25 



g 

o 



0) 



c 

o 



&lt;&gt; 

f 

Ul 



1 



PH 



o 

BQ 

rH 
"S 

S3 
O 

H 

"d 
o 



o 

00 




g C&lt;1 O O C&lt;1 -H&lt; O f O tC^lrHOOpO 
rHOOOiOCOOOrHr- 1 

t-TT-rr-Too"cr r-Tc^f IM 

rH r-H &lt;M (M 



125 

O 



P^H 
O 




H 



a & 



r- *H aW W OB ^ Q Q9 W - - - . W U W -~ ^ n w 

jiii&gt;"liiilill6 







S ^rS^^^^ 2 






26 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA.. 

THE "NIPISSING," A XEW STEAMER. 

The "Wenonah" has clone good service to the settlers in the Mus- 
koka district during the past few years ; Avhile at the same time she 
has proved remunerative to her enterprising proprietor, and I rejoice 
that she has fostered a trade upon these lakes, which necessitates the 
construction of a much larger vessel. I have thought that a description 
of the new steamer at present building at Gravenhurst, would interest 
my readers, and have therefore gleaned the following particulars, which 
will give some idea of what she will be like when finished : Her length 
of keel will be 115 feet; length of deck. 123 feet; breadth of beam, 
19 feet; breadth over all, 31 feet; gross tonnage, 150 tons. She will 
be driven by a low pressure beam engine, manufactured by Messrs. F. 
G. Becket & Co., of Hamilton. The length of stroke will be six feet; 
the bore of cylinder, 24 inches. Her boiler will be a return tubular 
made of fa inch Low-moor plate, weighing 8^ tons. The whole con 
struction of this steamer is under the supervision of one of the most 
experienced mechanical engineers and draftsmen in the Dominion. The 
contractor is Thomas Walters, Esq. The master builder is Mr. Robert 
Robinson, of Kingston; and, all things considered, I feel justified in 
stating that she will be a model of design, comfort and beauty, being 
the exact copy of the " Emily May" in every particular, only one-sixth 
smaller. She is to be fitted up as a mail, express, and passenger steamer. 
The latest improvements will be adopted in the build of her decks, 
cabin and general outfit ; and she will be furnished in the most elegant 
manner, so as to promote the comfort of those who shall sail in her 
over our beautiful lakes. Her average speed will be 14 miles an hour, 
and she is expected to be launched on the 15th of April next. I cer 
tainly must congratulate the inhabitants of this district upon the im 
proved accommodation furnished ; Avhile at the same time I wish Mr. 
A. P. Cockburn success in his grand enterprise. 



VILLAGES. 

As the settlement fills up, Villages arise as a natural consequence. 
The following sketches will no doubt prove that the .District is in a 
prosperous state : 



VILLAGES. 27 

BEACEBEIDGE. 

The village of Bracebridge is the most important in the District of 
Muskoka ; it is situated in the south-west portion of the Township of 
Macaulay, 11 miles north of Gravenhurst, on the north branch of the 
Muskoka Eiver, at what is known as the North Falls, about 5 miles 
from its influx with Lake Muskoka. When the writer first visited 
Muskoka, in 1861, there was not a tree cut nor a settler to be found on 
the present site all was a dense forest ; in fact, there was no road to 
it, and the only means of crossing the Eiver was by walking over a 
pine log which fortunately spanned the stream, which I can assure you 
was a dangerous experiment. What a change has taken place since then I 
While I write, a hundred chimneys are sending forth their smoke and 
scores of teams are driving past, giving evidence of activity and life. 
There are 4 large hotels, 7 excellent stores, 2 saw-mills, grist-mill, 2 
bakers shops, 2 butchers shops, 2 boot stores, carpenters shops, sash 
.and door factory, blacksmith shops, cabinet warehouse, drug store, 
book store, Court-house, Crown Lands office, Eegistry office, Jail, Print 
ing office, Churches, Schools, &c., Orange Hall, Post-office with daily 
mail, money order office, and P. 0. Savings Bank. Passengers can y 
during navigation, come through from Toronto in a day. Bracebridge 
is destined to become a town of great importance, situated as it is in 
the centre of the District, surrounded by a rich farming country, with 
numberless avenues all leading directly to it ; and, being on the route of 
the Toronto, Simcoe and Muskoka Junction Eailway, it cannot fail to 
keep the lead, as it has already taken it. 

Bracebridge is now certain of being made the present terminus of 
the T. S. & M. J. Eailway. The Government has placed it upon the 
list of those lines entitled to aid, and has granted $4,000 a mile towards 
its construction from Washago. The Company, anxious to penetrate 
the back settlements, have pledged themselves, on the Townships giving 
a bonus of $50,000, to construct the Eoad with all possible speed. 

This village at present is a more important place than Orillia was 
ten years ago, and the commercial position of this village in 1871 far 
exceeds the standing of that village in 1861 ; and, if the past be an 
index to the future, we shall gain more during the coming five than ifc 
has in the past ten. 



28 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

A SHORT SKETCH OF THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE 
VILLAGE OF GRAVENHURST. 

Ten years ago, the present site of the village of Gravenhurst was a 
wilderness of pines which flourished in all their primeval grandeur. 
But, as the resources and advantages of the country became gradually 
known to the outside world, eager immigrants from the mother country 
and land seekers from the older settlements came here ; amongst those 
Messrs. Jas. Sharp, senior; David Wright, Joseph Brock, Edward and 
James Hewitt, and Jas. McCabe, the last-named party also being pro 
prietor of the " Free Masons Arms" Hotel. The progress of Graven- 
hurst and vicinity was necessarily slow for a few years. 

Messrs. P. Cockburn & Son, commencing lumbering operations in the 
country during the winter of 1865- 66, gave an impetus to industry and 
advancement previously unknown they purchased logs from the set 
tlers and gave them employment during the winter months, soon con 
vincing the inhabitants that pine trees were useful for other purposes 
than being burnt into ashes. Mr. A. P. Cockburn, M.P.P., contributed 
very materially about this time to the welfare and progress of the settle 
ment by placing a steamer on Muskoka Lake, built near Gravenhurst 
wharf, and known as the " Wenonah;" he also opened a general store, 
distinguished as the " Montreal Store," since that the country has 
steadily progressed. 

Gravenhurst is pleasantly situated on a gentle declivity between Mus 
koka Bay and Gull Lake ; it is distant from Toronto, 106 miles ; from 
Orillia, 26 miles ; from Severn Bridge, 12 miles ; and from Bracebridge, 
1 ] miles. It is connected with Lake Couchiching by a new plank and 
gravel road constructed during the past summer. The principal build 
ings are Brown s hotel, Mr. Cooper s new building, the Queen s hotel,, 
the stores of Messrs. Cockburn & Co. and George Clarke, the Episco 
palian Church. Messrs. Sibbald &lt;k Chamber-land are building an exten 
sive shingle mill, and Messrs. Cockburn & Co. a steam saw mill ; a 
planing machine and sash and door factory are also to be run in con 
nexion with the saw-mill. 

A. P. Cockburn, Esq., is constructing a fine new steamer on Muskoka 
Bay, which he expects to launch in the month of April next. I 
might mention that James Sharp, senior, is general agent for the 
different steamers and the " Union Line " at Gravenhurst. The lumber 



"SEVERN BRIDGE." 

ing firm of Hotchkiss, Hughson & Co. have an office at this point. The 
only places of worship at present are the English Church and school- 
house. Two new churches and a public hall are in contemplation. The 
medical profession is represented by Dr. J. Adams, of Nova Scotia. 
Amongst the expectations are the Toronto, Simcoe and Muskoka Junc 
tion Railway, and a branch of the Montreal Telegraph Line. Being 
situated at the foot of navigation, Gravenhurst does a large and increas 
ing trade. The steamer JVenonah calls at the wharf twice each day. 
The village is favored with a daily mail, with a- through mail from, 
Toronto during the season of navigation. 

"SEVERN BRIDGE." 

This part of Morrison was first settled about 1858. The first settlers 
were James H. Jackson, William Johnston, and John Young. It was 
then the farthest point north that was settled. The next season five or 
six families more came in among them, the Messrs. Symingtons and a 
few families of Prussians. The first store was owned by O Brien & Co. r 
of Orillia, in the house now occupied by Mr. Mackenzie as an hotel. The 
next store was kept by a Mr. Gray, and H. W. Dillon opened a tavern. 
There is a good plank road, splendid water privilege, a first class hotel, 
two excellent stores, one kept by Mr. Jackson, the other by Mr. Samuel 
E. Thomson, who has named that part of " Severn Bridge" Sandy Row, 
in honor of that loyal part of Belfast, Ireland ; they are first class 
stores and reflect credit on the enterprising proprietors. There is also- 
a Town hall, Orange hall, blacksmith s shop, and carpenter s, and wood 
turner s shop. A new bridge has been built this season by Government, 
under the able superintendence of "VV. L. Owen, Esq., and it is said to 
be one of the best got up bridges north of Toronto. Severn Bridge is 
two miles north of Washago and is very rocky immediately at " Sandy 
Row," but there is a great deal of good land in Morrison and the ad- 
joining townships. Two miles up the Severn River are the falls ; these 
are beautifully picturesque, and will repay tourists for their trouble in 
visiting the same. Four miles down the river are Grass and Sparrow 
Lakes, justly famed for their fisheries. There are some Prussians around 
Sparrow Lake, and the other settlers are a mixture of Irish and Scotch. 
The settlers in Morrison are noted or their loyalty. 
2 



SO FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

WASHAGO 

Is a little village at the head of navigation, on Lake Couchiching, 
12 miles north of Orillia, and forms the entrance to the Free Grant dis 
trict of Muskoka. Here the steamboats land their freight and passen 
gers. It contains an hotel, post office, and saw mill. Many have turned 
back on their arrival here, and it is not much to be wondered at, for the 
scene is anything but inviting. Eock is very prominent, but I assure 
my readers that if they will penetrate the settlement, a more pleasing 
prospect will meet their view. 

MUSKOKA FALLS. 

Muskoka Falls is situated on the north-west corner of the Township 
of Draper, at the junction of the Peterson line of road with the Muskoka 
Eoad. It is 21 miles north of Washago, and 3 miles south of Brace- 
bridge. There is in this village a post office, with daily mail ; store, 
hotel, school, meeting-house, &c. The soil in the neighbourhood is 
good, and the country around is well settled. It is chiefly remarkable 
for the beauty of its scenery. The Grand Muskoka Falls are always at 
tractive to tourists, and much admired by the lovers of nature. In the 
spring of 1866 a scene of unusual interest presented itself. In former 
years the spray had formed an arch over the Falls, but on this occasion 
it assumed the form ot a cone with a crater, and from its mouth the 
spray came boiling forth in awful grandeur, ascending at least 100 feet. 
It might be compared to a mighty, massive silver fountain, sending forth 
its sparkling waters. Any one who has witnessed Vesuvius burning in. 
his fury may form some conception of this grand sight. As I gazed 
upon the scene a double rainbow spanned the Falls ; countless icicles 
were hanging from the branches of the tall pines as they bent gracefully 
over the cataract, and I wished that the world might be privileged with 
the sight. I drove some distance in order to get an artist to take a 
negative, but the spray was so great that a good picture could not be 
obtained. Multitudes of those who love the sublime and picturesque 
take a trip k hither once a year; and, when we consider that the Falls are 
175 feet in height, and that 3,670 tons of water per minute rush 
through this narrow mountain gorge and descend to the basin beneath 
with a voice like thunder, it is not to be wondered at that visitors from 
almost every part of the continent have carved their names on the 




GRAND MUSKOKA FALLS. 



MUSKOKA FALLS. 31 

bridge that spans the Grand Muskoka Falls. The writer is not a little 
proud of the thought that he was one of the first to carve his name on 
that wonderful record. 

MUSKOKA. 

Here hoary rocks that countless ages past 
Have brav d the force of winter s wildest blast, 
And scorching heat of summer s fiercest ray, 
Those rugged, beetling crags of granite gray, 
With awful majesty, sublimely grand, 
In all their native, ancient, moss-clad glory stand. 

Behold the maple groves in bright array, 

Their gorgeous tints and brilliant hues display. 

Among their short-liv d fading glories see, 

Emblem of constancy, the hemlock tree, 

That ever green its spreading branches show, 

Alike in summer s sultry heat and winter s chilling snow. 

Above the hemlocks green and maples bright, 

The sombre pine uplifts its stately height 

Its cone-capp d head above the other trees. 

Its tassel d foliage trembles in each breeze, 

And nimble red squirrels sport and wild birds sing 

Among the waving branches of the forest king. 

The wild duck skims along the glassy lake, 

The wild hare fearless plays among the brake ; 

In glens where foot of white man ne er hath trode, 

The shaggy bear and fox make their abode ; 

And through the vastness of their forest home, 

The graceful bounding deer and savage wild wolf roam. 

The calm, unruffled river quiet flows, 
Save when some sudden breeze mars its repose, 
Or when some scaly tenant of the flood 
Darts forth his shiny length in quest of food ; 
Or o er its smooth and placid surface glides 
The fragile bark canoe the skilful Indian guides. 

But see now, bursting through the narrow gorge 
Its wildly rushing torrent seethe and surge, 
One boiling mass of foam, from rock to rock, 
It falls, it bounds, with quick successive shock. 
The thundering noise the ro$ky banks resound, 
And waken countless forest echoes far around. 

The rocks toss up the foam in sportive play, 
And glittering rainbows sparkle in the spray ; 
The awful scene, the (learning roar appals 
Sublime, majestic, Grand Muskoka Falls ! 
That mock the puny arts of man, and stand, 
The wondrous mighty work of an Almighty hand. 

But more, the scenery sublime and grand : 

8ee yonder, where the stalwart choppers hand 

Has fell dthe woods and cleared the trees away, 

And fruitful crops his labor well repay. 

The seed he sows a plenteous increase bear, 

And well-filled granaries reward his prudent are. 



32 FREE GRANT LAENS OF MUSKOKA. 

See through yon field, how patiently and slow 

The meekly lab ring, well-fed oxen go, 

And pull the plough to break the fertile soil 

That yields rich harvests for the settler s toil ; 

Or homeward draw the heavy loaded wain, 

To fill the bursting barns with sheaves of golden grain, 

A happy home where peace and plenty dwell, 

And ruddy cheeks of health and comfort tell ; 

And while they robust, vig rous strength enjoy, 

In useful tasks the working hours employ. 

With pleasures true and real contentment blest, 

And honest labor makes thrice welcome evening s rest. 

Draper, 1869. 

Muskoka is a transformation of the Indian word Musquoto, signifying 
clear sky, or no clouds. Intelligent Indians inform us that Musquoto 
was the first Indian who discovered Muskoka Lake and River, and that 
they took the name of Musquoto from this fact ; and, by some trans 
formation on the part of the whites, Musquoto has been transformed 
into Muskoka. 

POET CABLING. 

This thriving village is situated in the Township of Medora, on the 
banks of the Biasong (Thunder lightning) river, on both sides of the 
rapids from whence the river derives its name. The village has been 
named in honor of the Hon. John Carling, through whose practical 
knowledge of and Avell-known interest in the improvement of the route 
of communication with the Free Grant District, a Lock is in course of 
construction to enable our line of steamboats during the season of 
navigation to traverse the Muskoka, Bosseau, and Joseph Lakes. This 
lock is in the centre of the village plot which has been surveyed, and 
will soon be in market, in lots of different sizes, for building purposes. 
These lots are well arranged and beautifully situated, sloping gently 
down to the river; some have a little rolling stone, but the majority are 
good clay loam and will prove a good investment to the purchaser. 
Already there are several houses, hotels and stores, doing a biisk busi 
ness, so that intending settlers will be favorably circumstanced in fixing 
up in the bush. The land on Joseph Lake is remarkably good ; and, 
as it is contiguous to the Georgian Bay, a ready market for all produce 
will soon be within reach. To show the rapid progress of settlement 
in this delightful neighborhood, I have only to mention that the first 
settler, Mr. Michael Bailey, came in to this place in June, 1865, and 
now there are scores of settlers all around and many more coming in. 



PORT SANDFIELD. 33 

The traffic per steamer " Wenonah " has been as much as she could 
carry ; and the " Wabamick," on Lake Eosseau, has had her capacity 
fully tested during the season of navigation just closed. Arrangements 
are being made for a school which will be in operation in a few days, 
so that educational privileges will be within the reach of most. Religious 
services are held fortnightly by the Wesleyans from Bracebridge, and 
other ministers come occasionally. The Orangemen are about building 
a hall, which will be completed early in spring and be quite an orna 
ment to the village and a great public benefit. 

There is a post-office kept in the store of J. D. Cockburn, Esq., 
whose attention to that pait of his. business entitles him to great 
respect ; and a Land and general commission office, under the superin 
tendence of Mr. G. C. Hazlewood, Avho will be most happy to supply 
information to inquirers. A Colonization Eoad has been made, con 
necting Port Carling and Bracebridge, some eighteen miles distant, so 
that in summer and winter our channels of communication are good. . 
Upon the whole, the claims of this neighbor nood upon the attention of 
intending settlers are great ; and the fact of our having a daily mail in 
summer, and twice a week during the winter, supplies all that which 
such a new country could be expected to furnish. 

POET SANDFIELD. 

This place is a cut made by Government to give steamboat communi 
cation between Eosseau and Joseph Lakes, and is named after the 
Honourable J. Sandfield Macdonald, Premier of our Local Legislature. 
The ceremony was duly performed by the Eev. A. Styleman Herring, 
B.A., London, England, during his trip into the Free Grant Territory 
in the summer of 1870. It is about three miles in a bee line to the 
west of Port Carling, and about five miles by water. It is every way 
likely that a village will rise up here of some importance. 

EOSSEAU. 

This village is at the head of Lake Eosseau, it contains a post-office, 
large summer hotel, and some stores. 

NIPISSING JUNCTION. 

This village is only about a mile distant from Eosseau, 22 miles from 
Parry Sound, and 32 miles from Bracebridge, at the junction of the 



34 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

Parry Sound and Nipissing Colonization Eoads. Here there is a post- 
office named Ashdown, a large hotel kept by Mr. Richard Irwin and 
several good stores ; there is also a blacksmith s shop, and the prospects 
of the place are cheering. 

MAGANETAWA. 

Maganetawa is situated half way between Eosseau Junction (at the 
head of Lake Eosseau), and Lake Nipissing, and is about 31 miles dis 
tant from both. James Miller, the first settler in this section, located 
here in October 1868, his nearest neighbour at that time resided at 
Eosseau Junction ; his example lias encouraged others to follow, and 
now there is a good settlement and considerable clearing, some having 
not less than 30 acres under cultivation. A village is just starting, 
and at this point a store and post-office are much wanted. Land 
seekers have now the advantage of a good colonization road, the soil is 
a good clay loam, and it is asserted by some that there is no less than 
80 per cent of it fit for cultivation. There is a splendid water privilege 
here on which Mr. Miller is erecting a saw-mill ; a good Sabbath- 
school is also kept up for the benefit of the children. I have no hesita 
tion in stating that Maganetawa will yet be a place of considerable 
importance, its situation is excellent. 

HUNTSVILLE. 

Huntsville is situated on the Vernon Eiver, near its mouth or conflu 
ence with the waters of Fairy Lake, in the Township of Chaffey. The 
Huntsville post-office was opened January, 1870. Two stores are now 
being built, with cheering prospects, on the part of the spirited proprie 
tors, of doing a good business. The Muskoka Eoad has been extended 
to this place a few months ago, and a very substantial bridge spans the 
waters of the Vernon. Lakes Vernon, Faiiy and Peninsula, are all 
beautiful sheets of water in this vicinity, abounding with a great variety 
of fish ; while their sloping banks and beautiful forests have rendered 
them objects of delight to the admirers of rural scenery. The land in 
the vicinity of these Lakes is of a superior quality, which is being 
rapidly cleared of its timber ; and waving fieldu of grain, with the most 
abundant crops of potatoes, &c., amply reward the enterprising settlers 
for their toil. 

Maple, elm, basswood, hemlock, birch and iron wood, may be regarded 



EARLY REMINISCENCES. 35 

as the prevailing kinds of timber. Pine is scarce, yet there are some 
fine specimens both of the white and Norway pine. The land is well 
watered by numerous springs and creeks ; swamps are seldom found,, 
while the old laurentian formation of rock, crops out on almost every 
lot of land; but this rock is not deceptive to the agriculturist, as he 
may dig or plough close beside the visible rock without obstruction. 
Hunters report much good land north and east of Franklin and Chaffey. 
The extension of the Muskoka Eoad to form a junction with the Bob- 
caygeon Road, on the east of Franklin, would be a great boon to this 
section of country. To effect this, a petition, numerously signed, has 
been forwarded to Parliament. The influx of settlers to the vicinity of 
these Lakes during last summer has been very great, yet there is much 
good land to be given away. Preparations are being made for the 
erection of churches and mills next summer. 



EAELY KEMINISCENCES. 



THE RICE QUARREL. 

In the early settlement of Draper, three families resided together 
until they would have time to erect a separate house for each. One of 
the women had brought in a quantity of rice, which mysteriously dis 
appeared little by little ; and, after having been robbed of her entire 
package, she gave expression to her suspicion that one or other of the 
women must have been interfering with the same; this gave rise to a 
terrible quarrel, and made a wide breach in those three families ; a 
separation took place, and considerable sensation was created. 

After some time light was thrown upon the whole affair in the follow 
ing manner : one of the men cut down a hollow tree, and as he was 
cutting it up, you may judge his surprise as the rice came running out ;, 
the thief was at last detected ; a naughty chip-monk or squirrel had 
found its way into the shanty, and as there happened to be a crack in 
the box which contained the rice, an entrance was effected, and little by 
little it removed the stock in order to complete its winter store, but the 
woodman s axe blasted its hopes, cleared the innocent, and shamed the 
quarrellers. 



36 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 



WILD BEASTS. 

No fear need be entertained with reference to wild animals ; I have 
"been in the settlement for about ten years, during which period not a 
single case of injury has occurred. The sight of a wild animal is very 
rare ; shortly after I settled in Muskoka, as I was on my way to the 
Severn Bridge, I saw a large gray wolf ; it was crossing the road near 
where James Boyd now lives, about a mile north of Grant s Mill ; when 
it heard my footsteps, it stopped. I shall never forget how I felt as I 
looked for the first time upon this noble specimen of the North American 
wolf ; there it stood about 20 yards off, with glaring eyes, pricked up 
ears, and bushy tail. After we looked at each other for a few seconds, 
it turned round and walked away in the direction from whence it came 
as cowardly as possible. 

The wolves of Canada are not to be compared to those of Russia in 
ferocity; besides, deer are so abundant that they seldom know what hun 
ger is. I have heard them howling as they were on the pursuit, and the 
.sound is anything but pleasant. 

The bear has been often seen, but has never been known to attack 
any one. They invariably flee from the face of man, and never give bat 
tle unless in defence of their young, to which they are strongly attached- 

The lynx is very rare, only one having been shot in the District. As 
an evidence of the perfect safety which we enjoy, I may state that not 
so much as a lamb has been destroyed by any wild animals in this neigh 
bourhood. 

INDIANS. 

Few Indians reside in the District, but numbers of them pass through 
it on their way from Rama to their hunting grounds. They are a very 
quiet, inoffensive people, fond of jewellery and gaudy attire. They sing 
very sweetly, and the squaws execute some nice bead work, which dis 
plays great taste. It is amusing to see them gliding along in their bark 
canoes. They are dying off very fast, and I fear that they will soon be 
come extinct. Some of them, however, live to a good old age. 

Old Chief Yellow-head died in 1865, aged 106 years. He was an 
honest Indian, much respected by all who knew him, and he continued 
to frequent his hunting grounds till a few days before his death. On his 
last trip he called at the residence of the writer, and remained over 
night. 



EARLY REMINISCENCES. 37 

LOST IN THE WOODS. 

The following was written some years ago, on the occasion of Moses 
Richardson and his wife getting lost in the woods ; Draper township 
was then but thinly settled, and the sensation it created in the settle 
ment was intense; I happened to be one of the party who went in 
search of the missing ones. Persons unacquainted with the bush 
should be careful not to penetrate far into it, unless provided with a 
compass. "What means this blowing of horns, firing of arms, and the 
oft-repeated Hoop, whoo that greets the ear and arrests the attention 
of every settler?" "A man and his wife are lost in the woods" is the 
prompt and excited reply. How sad is every countenance, how agitated 
every breast, how anxious every neighbour! The unhappy pair had 
gone in search of their cattle, mistaken their way, and got lost in the 
dense forest ; with wild desperation they are forcing their way through 
the thicket of the swamp, or ascending the rugged mountain s brow, or 
climbing over logs vainly in search of the home they left; but, alas, 
they are totally bewildered and every step they take leads them farther 
from " The dearest spot on earth," "Home, sweet home." The neigh 
bors now begin to collect from all points of the compass ; they form 
themselves into companies, and decide what the signal shall be in case 
the unhappy wanderers are found. Animated by a noble philanthropy 
they start, cheered by the happy thought of saving the lost ; for hours 
they pursue their difficult task ; crossing deep gullies, ascending almost 
perpendicular heights, then going down steep precipices, they onward 
go ; the sun begins to sink in the western sky, the shades of evening fall 
upon them, the dark curtains of night at length are thrown around 
them ; to proceed farther would be folly ; in the dark they might pass 
the objects of their search ; an eminence is sought and a fire is kindled, 
in order to attract the notice of the lost ones ; the searchers gather 
around it ; a little bread and pork, with some " bright water" from the 
brook that flows at the mountain s base, form their evening meal ; no 
levity characterizes their conduct ; there is but one expression visible 
on each countenance, and that is sadness ; hemlock brush is cut and 
spread that the weary searchers may rest themselves thereon ; sleep is 
out of the question ; their trouble is too deep for them, to enjoy "Na 
ture s sweet restorer, balmy sleep." The solemn words, "Let us pray," 
for the first time are repeated in this dense forest ; and, on the still 



38 FREK GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

evening air, prayer ascends to Him who came " to save that which was 
lost." Here, many mile.s from any human habitation, prayer for the 
first time is offered by " white men" to " The Great Spirit ;" the miss 
ing ones are not forgotten, and earnest supplication is made that God 
would direct their steps. But what of the poor wanderers 1 they are 
weak and faint ; hunger drives them to despair and death ; death from 
starvation stares them in the face ; the husband, as the only alternative, 
urges liis wife to cut a slice from the calf of his leg in order to satiate 
her craving for food ; but the faithful wife repudiated the thought, and 
replied that she would rather willingly die with her husband. 

Moments of anxiety pa?s, and the long-looked for morning dawns, 
the sun begins to peep in the eastern horizon, and after partaking 
of some refreshment they again start on their mission of humanity - 
the burning sun beams upon them, they wipe the perspiration from 
their brows, and the flies from off their necks, and uncomplainingly per 
severe over logs and swamps ; now the coat of one of the party is caught 
on a snag and rent to shivers, while another man s pants are almost 
torn from top to bottom. Hark ! Hark ! the report of firearms informs 
them of the fact that one of the companies has found the wanderers, all- 
fire off their guns in ecstasy and run in the direction of the firing to 
catch a glimpse of " Moses" and his wife. Oil ! what a sad sight was. 
then presented to their gaze. Poor creatures, how sad their condition, 
how weak, how changed, what wildness is in their eyes ; they are mad 
with fright, and are starving with hunger, as one pipe of tobacco has 
been all that they have enjoyed for over 48 hours ; the realization that 
they were lost, the fear of death, and the lashings of a guilty conscience 
for having gone out on the Sabbath-day in search of their cattle (they 
had been lost once before by disregarding the sacred precept "Kemember 
the Sabbath-day to keep it holy "), together with their swollen limbs 
and bleeding forms, completed their misery and made the sight painful 
to behold ; still there was joy mingled with sadness, every eye sparkles- 
with delight, every countenance is lit up with a smile, all share in the 
triumph, men embrace each other and weep for gladness, while the forest 
rings with their shoutings and rejoicings. A little nourishment having 
been administered to the sufferers, the friends form themselves in pro 
cession an&lt;4 take turn in carrying the weak ones home ; after reaching 
the log cabin and bidding them an affectionate farewell, they turn their 
steps homewards without a murmur, although they have travelled manj r 



EARLY REMINISCENCES. 39 

weary miles, scorched by a burning sun, and as they proceed they inform 
every one they meet of the " Good news." " They re found, they re 
found ! " is the repeated ejaculation, and all join in a sincere and hearty 
"thank God, thank God." 

WHAT BKOUGHT THE WRITER TO MUSKOKA. 

The question has often been asked, What brought you to Canada ? and 
how did you find out about Muskoka 1 With reference to the first part 
of the enquiry, I have to state that, having a numerous family, we com 
menced to consider what was best to be done under such circumstances. 
With our limited means we saw no prospect of ever being able to pro 
cure farms for them at home, so the thought of emigrating began to oc 
cupy our attention. With regard to the second, I would state that the 
Government, in 1861, sent Mr. J. A. Donaldson over to Great Britain 
and Ireland, in order to make Canada known, and promote emigration 
to the Provinces. It was announced in the Belfast papers that he was 
staying at the " Plough Hotel," and would be glad to give advice to any 
who were desirous of emigrating to Canada. I waited upon him, and 
received a pamphlet, with map of Ontario, together with much valuable 
information. In looking over the map, I was favourably impressed with 
the position of Muskoka. Its proximity to Toronto, and its unlimited 
water facilities, led me to conclude that if the soil was what the survey 
ors reported it to be, that eventually it must become a place of consider 
able importance. On the 10th of May, 1861, we set sail from London 
derry, and arrived at Quebec on the 20th, after a pleasant voyage of ten 
days. 

On passing along the Grand Trunk, I was very much disheartened at 
the appearance of the country ; but as we neared Toronto the scene im 
proved, and I thought Canada was not so bad a place after all. On our 
&gt; arrival in Toronto, I rented a house for a month for my family, Avhile I 
proceeded to examine the Free Grant Lands of Muskoka. At Orillia 
many persons tried to dissuade me from going there. One man said, 
" If you go in there you will die, and there will be no one to bury yo\i ;" 
but nothing daunted, I proceeded on my journey. On arriving at Mc- 
Cabe s Tavern, where the Village of Gravenhurst now stands, I hired a 
flat-bottomed boat, and rowed across Muskoka Lake, and up Muskoka 
River to the North Falls, now known as the Tillage of Bracebridge, 
which is the centre of the District. Here I was welcomed by Mr. James 



40 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

Cooper, to whom I had a note of introduction from R. J. Oliver, Esq., 
the Crown Lands Agent. After spending a night at the camp, near 
where the wharf now stands, I proceeded to Draper, and met with Mr. 
Richard Hanna, who was employed by the Government in opening up 
the Peterson Line of Road, who rendered me all the service in his power, 
and to whom I feel much indebted. After examining the land pretty 
thoroughly, I selected 400 acres on the banks of the south branch of the 
Muskoka River, about two miles east of the Grand Muskoka Falls, and 
succeeded in getting Mr. Hanna to quit road making, and fall to and 
chop ten acres of land, and build a log house, all of which he promised 
to have finished in a month, with the assistance of his men. I then 
went back to Toronto for my family, and, at the expiration of the month, 
returned, expecting that my Blouse would be finished ; but, while the 
frame was erected, it was destitute of floors and roof ; so we were obliged 
to make a shake-down, with nothing but the blue canopy of Heaven for 
our covering. On. retiring to rest all was pleasant, but at midnight the 
clouds began to gather, the lightning played, the thunder rolled, and the 
rain descended in torrents. There we were out in the wild woods, 
miles from a human habitation. Moments of eternal duration passed 
away, and at last the morning came, when we got changes from our 
chests, and a fire started. This was our introduction to backwoods life. 
The news soon spread that we had located at Draper Falls, and others 
soon followed. The settlement has gone on increasing, until now the 
Township is Avell settled by a loyal and industrious people. Settlers now 
can form no estimate of the superior advantages which they have over 
the early settlers. When the writer first located, he had to float over 
streams on rafts, was obliged to go 35 miles to the mill ; his nearest post 
office was 21 miles off, and he was destitute of stores, schools and chur 
ches, all of which the settlers now possess in abundance. In fact, such 
has been the rapid growth and development of the District that the writer 
could not imagine that half a century could possibly accomplish what 
has been achieved in a few years. It is truly astonishing how quickly 
the forest becomes cleared. 

"The rising hut of logs prepared with skill, 
Beside the shelter of some neighboring hill, 
The "settler s" home, of rude construction, stands, 
The quick achievement of the neighboring hands. 
Its sloping roof, of plank or shingle form, 
Defies the dashes of the downward storm ; 



EARLY REMINISCENCES. 41 

Rude as it seems to the fastidicms eye, 
Ts still a home where many comforts lie, 
Where humble worth can rest from healthful toil, 
And eat the products of the generous soil ; 
Where female charms and virtues can expand 
Beside the bounties of the well-cleared land, 
And honest labor independence win, 
Far from the haunts of idleness and sin. " 

I must say that several things impressed me very much on my arrival 
in this country ; the first was the vast extent of Canada, the enormous 
area covered with Avoods and forest, its great lakes and noble rivers. 
Another thing that arrested my attention was, the advancement which 
it had made Toronto, as regards buildings, business and beauty, being 
superior to many old country towns. I also noticed that, while the 
birds here are decked in gaudier colors than at home, yet they are verv 
deficient in song. The improved position of the labouring classes was- 
also very striking ; working men are not only better paid here, but they 
have better fare ; in this respect they enjoy perfect equality with their 
employers, eating at the same table, and treated in every way as equals. 



HINTS TO EMIGRANTS. 



THE BEST TIME TO AERIVE. 

If possible, get to the Free Grant District by the first of May. In 
order to get a little crop in, it is desirable that emigrants get here as 
early as possible. One week will be required to select your location, 
another to erect a log house; then follows the clearing of aome land 
and cropping the same. It is not to be expected that much can be done 
the first season ; but, by a little exertion, sufficient roots and vegetables 
may be grown for family usej and even some oats and peas may be 
raised. The writer has sown grain crops and planted potatoes as late 
as the last of June, and had a good return ; but I prefer the month of 
May. Old country people have no idea of. the rapidity with which 
crops mature in this country, especially in new land. 

ON LEAVING HOME. 

Emigrants are often induced to make a clean sweep and part with 
almost everything they possess. It is urged, as a reason for this course, 



42 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

that the freight is so high that the cost would overcome the profit. 
Now, there are many little necessaries, which, when sold, realize very 
little; while those same articles, if kept, would be exceedingly valuable 
in the bush and prove a source of much comfort and convenience to the 
family as well ; therefore, do not sacrifice your conveniences ; they will 
not take up much room, and the freight is nothing in comparison with 
the comfort they will confer. Eemember to bring all your bedding and 
wearing apparel with you, 

THE PASSAGE. 

Provide yourselves with some fresh eggs packed in salt, a piece of 
smoked ham, a few pounds of cheese, some pickles; and, if you are 
Scotch, a quantity of oatmeal cake. Put these articles, together with 
.any other little conveniences, in a trunk which you will keep beside you 
in your berth. All your boxes and luggage will be stowed away in the 
hold of the vessel ; so, whatever you absolutely require on the voyage, 
should be put in this trunk, which you will keep in your berth room ; 
it will also serve as a seat. 

MAKE FOE TORONTO, 

The capital of the Province of Ontario, the business centre and seat 
of commerce. The Free Grant Districts of Parry Sound and Muskoka 
are reached from it. On your arrival in the city, inquire for Mr. John 
A. Donaldson, Government Emigration Agent, Avho will give all neces 
sary information. 

A HOME IN THE WILD WOODS. 

Having made up your minds to take advantage of the Free Grants 
of land, lose no time but proceed without delay. 

"We have known some who, on their arrival, frittered away their 
means and time in our cities, and then, when their money Avas all gone, 
would make for the bush. Shun such folly, and do not delay a day ; 
remember " time is money," and you will require every shilling you 
have to enable you to clear your farm and to keep you till you raise some 
crop, so do not waste a penny. On your arrival procure lists of the, 
unoccupied lots and make a thorough examination of the land before 
locating ; this is of great importance ; your choite is for life, and your 
.success or otherwise depends to a great extent upon the choice you 



HINTS TO EMIGRANTS. 43 

make. There is an abundance of good land to choose from. Some take 
almost the first lot they see, without proper examination, and after a 
time get discouraged. The plan is to take time, in the first instance, 
and make a wise selection, then begin and work with a will. 
The following is from the " Muskoka Settler s Guide : " 
The class of settlers best adapted for the country are strong able men 
who will not be discouraged at every little incident they meet ; men 
who have both vigour and courage to grapple with and overcome diffi 
culties ; men willing to live bare, work hard, and put up with many in 
conveniences for a few years. At the same time it must be observed 
that there have not yet, and humanly speaking never will be, such hard_ 
ships encountered in this settlement as have been known in many others. 
There is the good Colonization Road, there are the mills and stores, and 
there is employment to be got at good wages. These are great advan 
tages still, there is the land to clear and fence, houses and barns to 
build, and roads to make, and any one coming here and expecting to 
find all the conveniences of an old settlement will be disappointed. 
Those, on the other hand, who are willing to economize and work hard 
for a few years may expect to see their labor crowned with success and 
to obtain and enjoy all the comforts of life in houses of their own. Many- 
have come here with only a few dollars and have got on wonderfully, 
but not without losing much valuable time while working from home. A 
single man, or one with a very small family, might make a commencement 
with very little means. But to get oxen, a cow, feed, seed,, and provisions, 
one Avould require to have something like $500 or 100 sterling, with 
which properly managed he will have every prospect of success. Many, 
however, have gone into the woods with only an axe and a will to use it 
and have been quite successful. In a new settlement there are always 
persons willing to sell out for the purpose of raising a little money to 
enable them to make a better start on another lot, and generally it will 
be best for those who have sufficient means and not much experience to 
buy some partly improved place. Lots with from 10 to 20 acres cleared 
may be got from $300 to $1000 according to quality of land and situa 
tion. In some localities lots with a few acres cleared can be obtained 
for less. Men thinking of coming into the bush should consider well 
before making a move. If they can do as well elsewhere they should 
not come here, and similarly those who can benefit themselves by leaving 
should lose uo time in doing so. There may be some here who .should 



44) FREE GRAXT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

never have come ; but there are many who are not here who should be 
here. Those who have land and comfortable homes of their own should 
stay where they are ; but there are many on small farms, on rented 
farms, and on mortgaged farms, with families of boys growing up, who 

could here secure homes both for themselves and their sons many 

strong men whd are hired out and working hard, who, if they would 
come here and work as hard for themselves, would soon be independent. 
There are many able-bodied men living in cities, paying high prices for 
provisions, house-rent, and fire-wood, and losing their health into the 
bargain, who here would get land of their own for nothing, a house of 
their own for the raising, firewood for the chopping, and very soon they 
would be able to raise their own provisions. It is specially for the in-- 
formation of such that these facts are now stated, for, from enquiries 
which have hitherto been made, it may fairly be inferred that there are 
thoxxsands who would willingly come here if they thought they could 
secure homes and make a living for themselves and families, but who 
either have not known of the country, or have not known in what 
quarter to seek the information they desired. The best months to look 
for land are : in the spring, May, and in the fall, August, September, or 
October. In these months the flies, which are troublesome mainly in 
June or July, are avoided ; nor does the snow prevent a thorough ex 
amination of the land being made. To those without experience it has 
often been said that they had better obtain employment with a farmer if 
possible on a new farm for a year or so at first, so that they may have 
an opportunity of learning the specialities of Canadian farming. In this, 
however, each must judge for himself. Many would be better to do 
this before attempting to clear a farm for themselves. Two or three 
brothers may do well together, but it seems never to answer for friends 
to join in partnership in clearing a farm. It is often done generally the 
parties are inexperienced but the result is invariably a separation be 
fore long, and a state of accounts that is very difficult to adjust. The 
new settler should be careful to select his very best land for his first clear 
ing, and to lay out his improvements systematically. It is during the first 
two or three years he is in most need of the best return he can get from 
the land, and of economizing his time, and of cultivating properly what 
he has in hand. These things, which seem so obvious, are more generally 
neglected than one would imagine, and are the greatest causes of want of 
success in the bush. Appended will be found a statement of the route 



QUERIES AND ANSWERS. 4-&gt; 

and cost of reaching here, and a short statement of the cost of articles 
necessary to be purchased. 

In conclusion, it has been desired to abstain from using enticing lan 
guage to induce settlers to come here. There seemed to be a call for in 
formation respecting the country, and it is the humble endeavor of this 
pamphlet impartially to supply that want. "We can only add from our 
experience that those who come here will find a country fit for habitation,, 
civil, kind neighbours, and a hearty welcome. 

QTJEEIES AND ANSWERS. 

I submit the following as specimens of letters which I daily receive, 
together with my answers, which from their multiplicity must necessarily 
be brief. Thousands of anxious enquirers will gain much information 
by reading them : 

1. Is any portion of the Free Grant Lands tolerably free of stones 
and rocks 1 

Yes, some places entirely free, with 70 per cent, fit for cultivation. 

2. What is the quality of the soil, kinds of timber growing on it, &c. 1 
Sandy loam ; timber, mixed, a good deal of hardwood. 

3. What kinds of crops are raised, and their quality ? 
All kinds of crops raised here, and the yield is good. 

4. Are there many settlers in the District, and how do they thrive ? 
There are thousands of settlers, and they all thrive well and like the 

country. 

5. Is there good employment for laborers generally ? 

Abundance of employment for all who are able and willing to work. 

6. Is there much game there, sx;ch as deer, mink, foxes, &c.] 
Plenty of game, and money to be made by hunting and trapping. 

7. Are there many trappers engaged in trapping there 1 

There are some, but yet there is room for more ; the country is large. 

8. Do you think trapping and hunting would pay there for the winter ? 
I know some who follow it, and they succeed admirably. 

SAINT PANCRAS, MIDDLESEX, LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Guardians of the Poor, St. Pancras Workh-ouse, N. W. 

December 26, 1870. 

SIR, Seeing your letter addressed "To the Editor of the Montreal 
Daily Witness" published in a pamphlet giving information to intending 



46 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

emigrants, printed at Toronto, 1869, I am induced to ask you a few 
questions. 

First. What is the climate of Draper ? and how low doos the ther 
mometer register 1 ? 

Secondly. What is the price of good land cleared and uncleared ? 

Thirdly. The cost of living 1 

Fourth. Is there any wild fowl or game to shoot 1 

Fifth. Any information that you may think desirable for emigrants 

to know. 

OFFICE OF THE "NORTHERN ADVOCATE," 

BRACEBRIDGE, 17th January, 1871. 

MR. , London, N.W. 

SIR, Your favour of the 26th ult. received. In reply I beg to state 

that the climate of Draper is very healthful. We have a few cold days 

in winter, say one week, when the thermometer goes down, say from 20 

to 30 below zero ; but we are so protected by furs, Ac., that we rather 

enjoy it, and with care no injury is done. Cleared land may be bought 

at from $20 to $25 dollars an acre, uncleared from $1 to $5 our dollar 

being equal to about four shillings sterling. The cost of living 

here is much cheaper than in England, as you see by enclosed list of 

Bracebridge markets; besides you sit free of rent, and firewood costs you 

nothing but the trouble of cutting it. Game is very plentiful, especially 

deer and partridges, while our rivers and lakes abound with the 

choicest fish. 

I herewith send you a copy of the Northern Advocate, which will give 
you much information regarding the Free Grant Lands. I may just add, 
that Col. Maude, C.B., V.C., has purchased a beautiful property in 

Draper, and enjoys it very much. 

Yours very sincerely, 

THOMAS McMuRRAY. 

CHURCH STREET, TORONTO, 

December 15th, 1870. 

THOMAS McMuRRAY, ESQ. 

DEAR SIR, Your name having been mentioned to me as a gentleman 
who would be able to give me some information as to the Muskoka Dis 
trict, I trust you will excuse the liberty I have taken in addressing you. 



QUERIES AND ANSWERS. 47 

It being my intention to settle somewhere in these parts, could you tell 
me the general quality of the Free Grant lands ? How far from a town 
or village ? Whether there are good markets 1 The crops that could be 
suitably raised ? The timber on the land ] Whether there are streams 
near 1 Would any be suitable for stock-raising ? any easy facilities for 
trading ? The nearest place of worship ? The amount of capital that 
would be required to work a farm, three being in partnership 1 Also, 
are there any improved lands for sale ? And any other information you 
can give. Also, what should you advise us to do, take Free Grants or 
improved land. By kindly letting us know, you will confer a great 

favor, and 

Yours, obedientlv. 



BRACEBEIDGE, 20th Dec., 1870. 

DEAR SIR, Your favor received. The soil is generally of a sandy 
loam, although there is some heavy clay loam. Free Grant land can still 
be had within a few miles of a village. We have a good cash market for 
all surplus produce and stock. You can raise every kind of crop here 
that can be grown in the County of York. There are some ridges of 
pine, but the bulk of the timber is maple, basswood, elm, birch, and other 
descriptions of hardwood. This country abounds with living streams. 
There is no better country in the Dominion for stock farming than this. 
Cattle and sheep do well here, and pay. The facilities for travelling are 
good for so new a country. There are places of worship all through the 
districts, and schools are being everywhere organized. I cannot say how 
much capital it would take to work a farm, unless you state the quantity 
proposed to be piit under cultivation. Partnerships are not desirable, in 
my opinion, in farming. There are improved farms for sale, prices rang 
ing from two to ten dollars au acre. I consider it a great advantage to 
get a partially improved place, if you have not to pay too high for the 
improvements. If a man has little help, it is well to have a small clear 
ance to begin with ; but where a man has a number of strong sons, able 
to wield the axe, unless he can get a bargain, of a place, he had better go 
right back into the bush, and take tip a block of wild land. The Nortli- 
ern Advocate newspaper Avill give you much valuable information. See 

copy forwarded by this mail. 

Yours very sincerely, 

McMURRAY. 



48 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

I have often been asked, What can a partially cleared farm be bought 
for 1 and what capital is required to work the same 1 In reply to these 
questions, I submit the following : 

A farm containing 200 acres, with comfortable log hotise, barn and 
stable thereon, with 40 acres cleared and fenced, can be purchased for 
400 or less. To work a farm of 40 acres, it would require 

s. d. 
1 yoke cattle 20 stg. 

Plough 340 

Waggon 15 

Harrows, &c 5 

3 Cows 16 

20 Sheep 16 

Sow in pig 2 

Poultry 1 10 

Cost of seed 20 

6 Months keep 50 



148 14 
The returns would be 

1 acres wheat, 200 bushels, at 81 40 

10 " Oats, 400 at SOcts 40 

10 " Peas, 300 at 50cts 37 8 

10 " Hay, potatoes and turnips 30 

Profits from cows, sheep, poultry, etc 30 



177 8 

Now, if we deduct the 70 charged for seed and keep, we have a net 
profit of over 100 stg. a year ; so that four years would pay for the en 
tire farm, or, if you were not prepared to purchase, and wanted to rent 
the cleared land, you might do so for about 20 a year. 

PRICES OF NECESSARY ARTICLES. 

Oxen $100.00 to 8120.00 

Cow 25.00 to 30.00 

Sheep 4.00 to 6.00 

Cooking Stove 20.00 



INDUCEMENTS TO EMIGRATE. 49 

Shovel Plough $10.00 

Pork (fresh) per 100 Ibs 5.00 to $6.00 

Flour, per barrel 7.00 

Harrow Teeth, per Ib 0.10 

Axe 1.00 to 1.50 

Potatoes, per bushel 0.30 to 0.50 

Grindstone, from 2 to 3 cents per Ib. 

ROUTE FROM TORONTO TO THE MUSKOKA DISTRICT. 

Toronto to Bracebridge (Summer route), distance 124 miles, 

fare $3 75 

Toronto to Rosseau (Summer route), distance 140 miles, fare 4 15 

Trains leave Toronto for Lake Simcoe steamers, and their regular 
through connexion, twice a day (Sundays excepted) : 

For the steamer Emily May, at Bell Ewart, trains leave the city at 7 a.m. 

For the steamer Ida Burton, at Barrie, trains leave the city at 4 p.m. 

Toronto to Bracebridge (winter route), distance 126 miles, fare $4.50. 

Trains leave Toronto for Barrie daily (Sundays excepted) at 7 a.m., 
connecting witli daily stages for Muskoka, via Orillia. 

INDUCEMENTS TO EMIGRATE. 

Canadians may well feel proud of their country*, for none under 
Heaven can boast of greater advantages than the inhabitants of our 
beloved Dominion. Peace and plenty, contentment and prosperity, 
characterize all the Provinces united in this grand Confederation ; but 
the Province with which we stand more closely identified surpasses all 
the rest in attractiveness and good fortune. 

There are many things which the people of Ontario, without any 
egotism, may justly boast of. Here we have all the elements essential 
to a nation s greatness, and a nation s wealth. The inhabitants possess 
intelligence and self-reliance. The soil is the richest on the continent, 
and our climate the healthiest in the world. Here we have a large- 
field for all. The capitalist can find ample scope for his wealth, and the 
laborer abundance of employment and good remuneration for his services. 

Our system of education, under the able superintendence of the Rev. 
E. Ryerson, LL.D., is deservedly the admiration of the world, and is 
now acknowledged a model for other nations to imitate ; while our 
Municipal Institutions illustrate the advantages of local self-government, 



")() FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

and are well adapted for the development of our country ; in fact, so 
highly are they held in estimation that the Emperor of Russia recently 
sent Commissioners into our Province to become practically acquainted 
with their workings, so as to introduce them into his territory. 

The scenery of Ontario is varied and grand. There is Niagara with 
its world-renowned cataract, Hamilton with its mountain, and Muskoka 
which stands unequalled for its chain of enchanting lakes. Here we 
enjoy the utmost liberty, and can boast of a freedom beyond even that 
of the mother country. Our magnificent forests are free, and you can 
roam where you will without running the risk of aristocratic vengeance, 
while our beautiful streams abounding with fish, may, in their season, 
be enjoyed by all without molestation. I believe in the sentiment, " that 
all men are born free and equal." Here men are measured, not by their 
gold, nor the extent of their domains, but by their moral worth. Hence 
all stand upon a grand equality, so that the honest poor man is as much 
respected as the millionaire. Another thing that marks the progress of 
civilization, and which we may well rejoice at, is the deep, practical 
sympathy manifested for a class who have strong claims upon our benev 
olence ; and if it be the duty of the Government to provide for those who 
are deprived of their senses that duty has been nobly discharged by the 
present ministry, for in two years they have given somewhere about 
$600,000 to charitable and benevolent objects, and certainly the blessing 
of the blind, as well as that of the deaf and dumb will rest upon them. 
They have also inaugurated a system, with reference to the treatment of 
the insane, that will immortalize their administration. Mr. Langniuir, 
inspector of prisons, informed us that some 300 lunatics have been taken 
from the jails and placed under favorable treatment, whereby twenty-five 
per cent, have been cured ; and, of all the cases brought under their 
notice within the last two years, no fewer than 57 per cent, have been 
discharged cured. 

A great saving has been effected in this department as well. Hitherto 
all lunatics were confined, and not only was this confinement detrimental 
to their recovery, but it was a source of great expense to the country. 
Now, however, only dangerous lunatics are kept in this way, and harm 
less ones are permitted to move about and make themselves useful, and 
thereby a great saving is gained. 

It is gratify ing to know that Canada which takes the lead in education 
al matters is also leading the way in other charitable ways, and the pre- 



INDUCEMENTS TO EMIGRANTS. 51 

sent Administration deserve no small credit for what they have done in 
the various reforms, which characterize their administration ; but still 
we venture to assert that the crowning glory of their administration will 
ultimately be found in what they have done, and will yet do to open up 
this new country, and fill the Free Grant Districts with countless 
thousands of loyal settlers who will make Muskoka second to no part of 
Canada in wealth and importance. 

For the encouragement of those about to emigrate, and as a proof of 
our prosperity, we give the following from the Ottawa Times : 

" We understand that the Customs and Internal revenue receipts for 
the months of July and August show an increase of considerable more 
than half a million dollars over the corresponding period of last year. 
Only about $150,000 of this is consequent upon changes in tariff ; the 
balance is entirely the result of largely increased amount of business done 
in the country. What makes it the more gratifying is the fact that the 
increase is general throughout the Dominion, not being confined to one 
or two cities, and thus indicating a condition of general prosperity, which 
is in the highest degree satisfactory." 

Here wages are higher, and food is cheaper than in England, while 
our taxation is a mere nothing. Nor is there the slightest probability 
that the labour market will be glutted, for of all the thousands of emi 
grants who arrived last year, the demand continues, while wages remain 
as high as before. 

Canada, therefore, offers a home where all the necessaries of life can 
be enjoyed by those who are able and willing to work, with perfect 
security to life and property. 

It should then be the object of every lover of his country, of every 
one who believes in British institutions, and desires that the largest pos 
sible number of his fellow-subjects should share in the benefits the 
nearest, greatest and cheapest of British colonial dependencies has to 
bestow, to set forth her claims to their first choice, and thus prevent 
many thousands who cross the Atlantic from becoming alienated from 
their allegiance to their motherland. 

The Globe of December 28th : 1870, says : "The perfectly free and 
liberal character of our political constitution, the complete control the 
people can, if they will, exercise in their Federal, Provincial and Muni 
cipal government, should remove all difficulty out of the way of the 
latter half of our proposition. As to the former so far as countries 



-52 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

speaking the English tongue are concerned it would seem that the 
desirable point has been already attained. With respect to the prime 
necessaries of life, Canada may certainly compare very favourably with 
any British colony, and they are to be had far cheaper here than in 
Great Britain or the United States. 

" With respect to taxation, however, the advantages are in favour of 
Canada beyond all comparison. The taxation per head in the Dominion 
is only 18s. lid. sterling. In Great Britain and Ireland it is 2 4s. 7d., 
or about two and and a half times the amount of our proportion. In. 
the United States it is 2 19s. 5d. per head, or more than three times 
that of Canada. But the taxation of the other British Colonies places 
that of Canada in a still more favourable light. In New Zealand the tax 
ation is actually 12 7s. 2d. per head; in South Australia, 6 7s. 4d. 
per head ; in Queensland, 5 1 3s. 9d. per head ; and in New South 
Wales, 5 6s. 9d. per head. Thus Canada is taxed only in the proportion, 
in round figures, of one-thirteenth of New Zealand less than one-sixth 
of South Australia one-sixth of Queensland and something over one- 
fifth of New South Wales. 

" At the present moment there can be no doubt that thousands of per 
sons in Great Britain are contemplating emigration during the coming 
summer. The industrious millions of the old country can find an outlet 
for their over-stocked labour market, where wages we speak, of coiirse, 
of handicrafts and agricultural employment are higher than at home, 
where food is cheaper and where the hand of the tax-gatherer is most 
lightly felt. Nor is there the least fear of the supply of hands exceed 
ing the means of employment." 

FREE GRANTS OF LAND. 

Heads of families get a grant of 200 acres of land, and each member 
of his family, over 18 years of age, 100 acres ; and, if more is wanted, 
each settler can purchase 100 acres, at 50 cents an acre, cash. The con 
ditions are residence on the lot at least six months a year. There shall 
be cleared in 5 years at least 15 acres, and there shall be cleared during 
each year not less than 2 acres. At the end of five years, the deed will 
be issued. A Homestead law provides that, if the first settler or his 
heirs remain on the land, it cannot be seized for debt for 20 years. 
This Free Grant system has already proved a great stimulus to the 
settlement of country, and I look for yet greater results. 






THE SETTLERS. 53 

THE SETTLERS. 

A better class of people never took possession of a new settlement 
than the inhabitants of these Districts. Here you will find all classes, 
rich and poor, learned and unlearned, fired with the same zeal and 
working for the same object, namely, to prepare an independent home 
and improve their circumstances. Already we have some thousands of 
settlers, the greater part belonging to the sons of toil, and they are 
daily on the increase. The nationality, as far as we can judge, is as 
follows : one-third Canadian, one-third Protestant Irish, one-third com 
posed of English, Scotch and German. 

Great credit is due to the first settlers ; they had to endure many 
hardships and privations. Lumberers and steamboat owners have cer 
tainly done much for the country, but the early pioneers deserve the 
medal. 

I have spent hours listening with the deepest attention to those aged 
heroes as they related the thrilling incidents connected with their early 
history. There is a wonderful pleasure in the realization of the fact, 
that, after years of weary toil, a competency has been acquired and a 
comfortable home provided. We have seen a man stand in front of his 
mansion, gazing upon a country that was cleared for miles, and heard 
him exclaim, with pride, " When I came to these parts, there was not a 
tree cut nor a settler within twenty miles of me." What a change has 
taken place ! The woodman s axe has been at work, and now you gaze 
upon a landscape of surpassing beauty. Numerous farm houses appear 
in view, giving evidence of comfort and prosperity ; herds of cattle are 
grazing upon the pasture lands, orchards are laden with the choicest 
fruits, and fields of golden grain are waving in the breeze, where, a few 
years ago, the foot of white man never trod. Monuments have been 
raised to men less worthy than some of those pioneers who have done 
so much to raise Canada to the position which it now occupies among 
the nations of the earth. But, for the early pioneers, no marble monu 
ment is erected: 

They sleep in secret, and their sod 
Unknown to man, is marked by God. 

Settlement in 1871 is easy work compared with what it was in the 
early history of the Province. Now we have the Colonization Roads 
running through the very centre of our Free Grant territory, so that 



,54 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

settlers can easily, cheaply and quickly make their way to their new 
homes ; whereas the early settlers had no such advantages. Many of 
them had to ford streams ami follow Indian trails for miles to reach 
their locations ; some had to go from 40 to 50 miles for their seed and 
pack it home upon their backs all that distance. Then it Avas no rare 
thing to have to go 40 miles with a bushel of wheat to the mill and 
take the flour home again. Some who are living to-day in splendid 
houses, and who own magnificent farms, have gone over 40 miles for 
their first bushel of seed potatoes. 

THE BACKWOODSMAN S SONG. 

NOTE. I give this, not because of any merit which it possesses, but 
from the fact that it was the first piece of poetry published 011 Muskoka, 
and was written by one of the oldest settlers. 

TUNE Auld Lang Syn". 

Come to tlie land of rivers, 

And groves of goodly pine 
A land to last forever, 

To be both yours and mine ; 
Our rulers now, God bless them, 

In wisdom they designed 
Free grants of land to give away 

In this most favored cliino. 

One hundred acres every man 

Shall have on terms good, 
Only to come and lead the van 

To grand Muskoka s wood. 
Here are the falls of splendour, 

Magnificent and grand ; 
And here are nature s wonders 

On these free tracts of land. 

Here may the angler s wishes 

Be more than satisfied ; 
A good shot may make riches 

Down by the Severn side. 
The Severn in his grandeur, 

Which dashes from rock to rock, 
Reminds us of our native land, 

Our fathers and their flock. 

Then come along, young men of sense, 

Bring axes and bring hoes ; 
Begin your farms now to clear 

The woods resound with blows. 
Your old friends and your comrades 

May wish to live at ease ; 
Take courage, boys, and come along, 

It will your sweethearts please . 



THE ADVANTAGES OF MUSKOKA. 55- 

The townships are laid out in lots, 

The road on either side, 
From Severn to Muskoka Falls, 

Is ample, good and wide. 
On either side you may now have 

Those lands, as not located ; 
But if you do not come in time 

You re sure to be defeated. 

Then here s a cheer for our good Queen, 

For Britons we are still ; 
We have the hearts to fell the woods, 

And work with a good will. 
Our homes shall be in these wild woods, 

Our daughters, young and fair, 
Will sing around our bright log fires, 

In health, and free from care. 

W. MEECIER. 

There is nothing like taking up land in a new and prosperous settle 
ment, and there is no way that a man will accumulate more money than 
by adopting this course, as the history of thousands can testify, as every 
year your property is increasing in value. I could enumerate many in 
stances of men who came to Canada without a shilling in their pockets, 
who, by taking up land in a new settlement when it was cheap, grew up 
with the place, and amassed great wealth. 

The Oshawa Vindicator says that Dr. McGill and Mr. Glen have sold 
to Mr. Thomas Conlin 100 acres of timber land for $8,500. This makes 
Mr. Conlin the owner of 700 acres of land, all within the township of 
East Whitby. Mr. Conlin came to this country with only one shilling 
in his pocket, and by great industry, good judgment and prudence, he 
has become one of the largest land-owners in the township. This is the 
kind of men to build up a country, and this is the country for that kind 
of men. 

Tenant farmers and others who would sell out, and realize say from 
200 and upwards, could do well here ; for while it costs $20 an acre 
(equal to about 4 stg.) to clear the land, the first crop generally pays 
for that, and hence it proves a good investment. 

THE ADVANTAGES OF MUSKOKA. 

These are both varied and substantial. It is within easy access of To 
ronto, and is on the direct line of the Overland Route to the great North- 
West. It is also as I have shown in a previous chapter, almost on a bee 
line of travel on the shortest route from the Atlantic to the Pacific ; 
besides, it is likely to be penetrated by the Sault Ste. Marie and Ottawa 



3 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MTJSKOKA. 

River Railway, and now the certainity of the construction of the Toronto, 
Simcoe &lt;fc Muskoka Junction Eailway to the village of Bracebridge is a 
fixed fact. While, at the same time, it possesses a very large extent of 
country, 70 per cent, of which is fit for cultivation, and its water facilities 
are unsurpassed on the American continent. The importance of the 
water-power which this country contains cannot be over-estimated. It is 
designed to be an important manufacturing country, and may one day be 
the very workshop of Canada itself. As a stock-raising country it will 
stand unrivalled in the Province ; besides, minerals have been found in 
sufficient quantities to satisfy even the most incredulous, that this whole 
section abounds with the richest treasures which will be developed at no 
very distant date. As for stock farming, Muskoka will be to Ontario 
what the Highlands of Scotland is to the Lowlands of Scotland. It will 
be a great nursery for sheep and cattle ; the land is both high and roll 
ing ; it is well watered, and a very rich grazing country, and when it 
becomes linked by the Railway to Toronto the market will be very little 
inferior to that great centre. Then there is considerable timber, both 
pine and hemlock, and, as it is now demonstrated that the latter contains 
.an extract which is very valuable, it must prove an increasing source of 
wealth. Competent judges say that it is worth 20 per cent, more than 
pine timber. 

It is now generally admitted that Muskoka possesses many advantages, 
.and that it has made rapid progress. 

THE FIRST NEWSPAPER. 

The first newspaper in the Settlement was published by the author, 
on the Uth day of September, 1869, bearing the title of the "Northern 
Advocate." It was first printed at Parry Sound, but from the fact that 
Bracebridge was more central it has been removed thither. The object 
of the publisher was to give reliable information about the Free Grant 
Lands, and his labours have been very successful. The circulation is 
1,000 copies weekly. A great many copies go to England, Ireland and 
Scotland for the information of intending emigrants, and through its 
advocacy many have been induced to settle in our midst. 

It is somewhat singular, that when the writer first came to Muskoka, 
he had to row across Muskoka lake, and when the first issue of the 
Northern Advocate was piiblished, it so happened that the steamer was 
under repairs, and he had to row 10 miles across the same water in order 
to deliver the first number. 



THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY. 57 

We have a most flourishing Agricultural Society, the By-laws and 
Rules of which together with the Annual Report I respectfully submit. 

By-Laivs and Rides of the Muskoka Union Agricultural Society, as adopted at 
a Meeting of the Directors held on the 15th of February, 1870. 

1st. That this Society shall be known as the Mxiskoka Union Agri 
cultural Society (which shall comprise the several Townships in the 
District). 

2nd. That a general public meeting shall be held in the second week 
of January in each year, on such day in said week as the President shall, 
by notification in writing to the Secretary, given one month beforehand, 
appoint. 

3rd. That this Society shall be governed by a President, Viee- 
Presideiit, Secretary, Treasurer, and nine other Directors. 

4th. That all subscriptions shall be paid before the first day of May 
in each year, in default of which the member shall forfeit forthwith all 
benefit of membership for the current year. 

5th. Competition for prizes and all other benefits of membership 
shall be limited to members and to residents in the district who may, 
before 10 o clock on the morning of the Show, pay double subscription, 
which shall entitle them to the rights of membership for thy current 
year. 

6th. Stud Horses not to compete with Farm or Team Horses. 

7th. That a subscription of $1.00 shall entitle a member to compete 
for four prizes, and the payment of 12|- cents entrance fee for each entry 
above that number. 

8th. Stock and produce entered for exhibition must be the bona fide 
property of the exhibitor. 

9th. The exact age of all animals competing for prizes, being under 
one year old, shall be specified to the Secretai-y at the time of entering,, 
and taken into consideration by the Judges. 

10th.- In the absence of competition in any of the classes, the Judges 
will exercise their discretion in awarding a premium. 

llth. No animal to compete in any shape for more than one prize. 

12th. No farm produce of the same kind to be entered for more than- 
one prize, but entries of different varieties of the same kind of grain will 
be allowed, and must be the growth or production of the year in which 
the exhibition is held, and from the exhibitor s own or rented estate. 



58 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

13th. All entries for the Show shall be made three days previous to 
the Show, or up to 10 o clock 011 the morning of the Show on payment 
of 12 J cents to the Secretary. 

14th. The election of Judges shall be made by the Directors. No 
person shall be both Judge and candidate for the same prize. 

15th. That the rights of membership shall be restricted to lona fide 
settlers in the District of Muskoka. 

16th. That ewes must have suckled their lambs till the first day of 
July, and all sheep must have been regularly shorn after the 15th day of 
May. 

17th. That the Prize List be published at least three months before 
the day of Show. 

From the " Northern Advocate " of the 7th October, 1870. 

AGRICULTURAL SHOW. 

The third annual Show of the Muskoka Union of Townships Agri 
cultural Society was held at Bracebridge on the 27th ult. The weather 
was most favourable. The attendance large and respectable, and the 
whole proceedings proved a great success. 

We were very much impressed with the vast progress that has been 
made during the past year. The quantity and quality of the stock and 
produce exhibited, astonished all present. The cattle shown called forth 
the admiration of visitors. Some competent judges said that the oxen 
were equal to any that they had ever seen at the Provincial Fair. 

The display of produce was very large, and the samples would compare 
favourably with any county in Ontario. 

The show of vegetables and roots was large, and very complete. The 
tomatoes, melons, pumpkins, squash, cauliflowers, beets, potatoes, etc., 
were equal to anything that we ever saw, and went far to dispel the 
delusion of those who imagine that we cannot raise those things to ad 
vantage. In the Free Grant Districts the dairy produce exhibited is 
worthy of much commendation, and fully justifies what we have for 
years advocated, that this country is admirably adapted for stock-raising 
and diary purposes. 

The ladies department was very attractive, and reflected great credit 
upon the good taste and ability of the Muskoka ladies. Some of the 
articles shown displayed great ingenuity, and wonderful perseverance. 
Truly they are ministering angels and "patterns of patience." 



AGRICULTURAL SHOW. 59 

The conti-ast between the Show of 1870 and that of last year is very- 
striking, and speaks well for the prosperity of the District. In 1869 
only one sample of butter was exhibited ; this year we had 24. In. 1869 
no bread was shown; in 1870 we had 12 samples. In 1869 only one 
piece of ladies work was entered ; in 1870 over 50 vied with each other, 
and so all through the different departments. A decided improvement 
was noticeable, and next year we anticipate even greater success. 

The annual dinner of the Society was held at the " Dominion House," 
and was got up in splendid style by Mr. B. "W. Ross. 

The chair was occupied by John Teviotdale, Esq., President of the 
Society, Reeve of Draper, etc. ; the vice-chair by A. H. Browning, Esq., 
Reeve of Monck. After the cloth was removed, the President rose and 
proposed " The Queen" and other loyal toasts, which were well received. 
The toast, " The Army and Navy" was ably responded to by ex-Captain 
Slaven, of Orillia, who, in a graphic speech, alluded to the time when, 
the soil of our frontier was polluted by a band of Fenian invaders ; and 
when duty called him to go to defend our homes, and signified his 
willingness on a moment s notice to do so again. He considered that 
Canada would be in a position at no very distant date to boast of a 
military force equal to any in the world. He paid a high tribute to the 
soldier-like qualities of the Volunteers of Canada, and predicted that, 
if properly officered, they would yet distinguish themselves, and prove 
to the world that they were neither lacking in skill nor courage. 

" The Red, White and Blue" was then sung by Mr. Rich. James Bell. 

In reply to the toast, " Our Local Members," John Morrison, Esq., M. 
P., said that he felt very thankful for the cordial reception he had met 
with, and the enthusiastic manner in which the company had received 
the toast. He felt that it was his duty to apologize to the settlers for 
not visiting Muskoka before this ; but he promised that whether he 
should seek to represent North Victoria again or no, he would, if spared, 
return to this section. He spoke of the scenery as being most romantic 
and picturesque, and said it reminded him of the Highlands of Scotland. 
He expressed himself much surprised at the amount of land that he had 
seen fit for agricultural purposes. He had no idea until his arrival, 
that Muskoka was as good a country as it is ; but what surprised him 
most, was the number and respectable appearance of the settlers. He 
considered that a railroad would prove a great benefit to the settlement, 
and thought that the Government could not do better than apply some 



60 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

of their large surplus to assist in the construction of the Muskoka Junc 
tion Railwaj. Thanking the rate-payers for the liberal support given 
Mm at the last election, and promising to return again at no very distant 
date, he took his seat amidst loud applause. 

A. P. Cockburn, Esq., M.P.P. said that hefelt in duty bound to return his- 
sincere thanks to the gentlemen present for the hearty manner in which 
the toast had been received. It was to him a source of pleasure and 
of pride to be surrounded by so many warm friends. He was perfectly 
delighted with the whole proceedings of the day, and the success which 
had attended the Muskoka Union of Townships Agricultural Society was 
far beyond his most sanguine expectations. He considered that the show 
which they had witnessed to-day, would go far to elevate the district in 
the estimation of those who had come from a distance, as they had evidence 
before them in the products of the country which had been exposed, that 
must satisfy every candid person. He alluded to the spirit of enterprise 
which was everywhere manifested, and predicted a great future for this 
country. He thought that a railroad was just what was wanted to settle 
up this north country, and was of opinion that every member of the 
house would go in favour of giving a grant to the Toronto, Simcoe and 
Muskoka Junction Railway, as soon as it touched Free Grant Territory. 
He promised to watch over the interests of the settlement, and do all in 
his power to promote its interests. 

" The Judges " were next toasted. Mr. Arch. Thompson, in replying,, 
said that he was much pleased with the Show, and considered that the 
stock exhibited would compete with any north of Toronto. 

Mr. J. Cuppage admitted that he came with his mind prejudiced 
against Muskoka, but he confessed that " a change came over the spirit 
of his dream," and he was about to leave with very favorable impressions 
of the country. He had often witnessed worse oxen at the Provincial 
Fair than had been exhibited to-day, and wished us increasing success. 

Mr. Peter Nisbet, (Pickering Township) was surprised at the quality 
of the road leading into the district, and at the active signs of life which 
were seen in Bracebridge. He had been examining men and things since 
Ms arrival, and was forcibly struck with the very intelligent, and highly 
respectable appearance of the inhabitants. He expressed himself pleased 
with the show, and said that the dairy department was superior, that the 
fowl shown were choice, and the cattle numerous and excellent in quality 



AGRICULTURAL SHOW. 61 

He was about to leave the settlement with a good impression, not only 
of the country but also of the people. 

Mr. Taylor was glad that the strangers were disappointed " agreeably, 
and that they found the show better than they had anticipated. He 
also made a vigorous speech, setting forth the progress of the Society. 

Mr. W. Sharpe said that when he was locating here, some of his friends 
were afraid that he wo\ild not be able to live in Muskoka ; but he was 
glad to state after an experience of six years that he found that he 
could not only live by farming in Muskoka, but he _was able to do more. 

" The Agricultural interests of the District " was replied to by Mr. 
Paul Dane, who evidently is not very friendly to the " powers that be." 
His speech Avas noted for its originality, and caused considerable merri 
ment. 

Mr. Albert Spring strongly defended the Government, and stated 
that he did not expect them to build a road to his door. He thought 
that if the Government made the great leading highway into the settle 
ment, that that was all that could reasonably be expected from them, 
and the settlers should make roads connecting with the colonization 
roads. He held that the Government had done a great deal for Mus 
koka, and that they deserved the hearty thanks of every settler in the 
district. He claimed to be a railroad man, and considered that all we 
Avanted here in order to make a first rate country was a railroad. He 
was convinced that this district Avould be a great stock-producing sec 
tion, and Ave required the " iron horse" to bring [ us into contact with 
Toronto, where we could find a ready sale for fat cattle. He thought 
that the Government could not better promote the interests of immigra 
tion than by giving a liberal grant towards the building of the Muskoka 
Junction Railway. He Avas a poor man ; but, knowing the advantages 
of railroad communication, he Avould Avillingly subscribe $200 to assist 
the enterprise ; and, considering the expense of bringing in goods under 
the present arrangement, it \vould be to our advantage to give a liberal 
bonus, and by so doing we Avould be gamers. 

"Our Guests" Avas next proposed, and| heartily responded to, after 
which Dr. Gunn (Whitby) remarked that he could not but admire the 
road ; although he had to confess that on entering the settlement he 
Avas very much discouraged at the appearance of so much rock ; but, as 
he neared the Fort of Gibraltar, and saw the flag waving in the breeze, 

he thought that there must after all be a country beyond worth defend- 
4 



C2 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

ing, and he had found it really so. There was a prevailing opinion 
outside that Muskoka was unfit for settlement, but this was attributable 
to ignorance. He spoke of the grandeur of the scenery, and the health- 
fulness of the climate, and said that even Saratoga was not to be com 
pared to it. His party had greatly enjoyed their trip. They had found 
that the sail had given an increase to their spirits, vigor and appetite. 
He paid a high compliment to A. P. Cockburn, Esq., M.P.P., and the 
officers on board the " Wenonah" for the excellent accommodation fur 
nished, and the courteous attention paid to visitors while sailing on that 
comfortable steamer. He designated Muskoka a great safety valve, 
where enterprising Canadians might come and find scope for the de 
velopment of all their energies. He spoke highly of the intelligence of 
the settlers, commended their appreciation of education, and compli 
mented them upon the strict observance of the Sabbath which he had 
observed throughout the settlement. He thought that Muskoka was 
well adapted for butter and cheese-making, and concluded by wishing 
the district continued success. 

The Eev. Alex. Kennedy (Pickering) remarked that he was of opinion 
that this district would at no distant date form a very important part 
of the Dominion of Canada. The right men were in the right place. 
They possessed all the elements necessary to bring this about; for he 
could see that the settlers were men who possessed self-reliance, and 
were not easily discouraged ; and, if they continued as they had com 
menced, they would yet see such prosperity as would make them glad- 
He, with the other speakers, was favorably impressed with both the 
country and the people. 

J. B. Browning. Esq., rose and said that he was delighted to meet 
with his old friends once more. At the commencement of the Society s 
operations, he acted as Secretary, and took a deep interest in its wel 
fare, and now he felt rejoiced at the measure of success which had fol 
lowed the efforts put forth. He said it was a law in nature to know no 
vacuum ; so, although he was called away to another sphere of action, 
his place had at once been supplied by a gentleman who had nobly dis 
charged the onerous duties of Secretary, and he would not detain them 
with a speech, but simply propose the health of Eich. Jas. Bell, Esq., 
the Secretary of the M. U. of Townships Agricultural Society. 

Mr. Bell, in reply, returned his hearty and sincere thanks to the 
gentlemen present for the enthusiastic manner in which the toast had 



AGRICULTURAL SHOW. 

been received, and said that the noble day which they were so pleasantly 
bringing to a close caused his heart to swell with pleasure. 

" The Press" was ably replied to by Mr. John C. McMullen (Orillia), 
who claimed to be the pioneer pressman of the district. Having many 
years ago written several articles in defence of the country, 

"The Health of the Ladies" was responded to by Mr. J. B. Brown 
ing and Mr. John McAree. 

"The Health of the President, Vice-President, and Officers of the 
Society" was next proposed and responded to by John Teviotdale, Esq., 
and A. H. Browning, Esq. 

" The Lumbering interests" was replied to by H. H. Cook, Esq., 
who claimed to be one of the pioneers of Muskoka, having travelled 
through it for the past 14 years getting out square timber. He 
described his limits as covering 300 square miles, and said that the 
settlers got about ten times as much for their square timber as for saw 
logs. He considered the Show a great success, and pronounced it one 
of the best he ever attended. He alluded to the enterprise and perse 
verance of Mr. A. P. Cockburn, M.P.P., in putting the "Wenonah" 
upon Lake Muskoka at so early a period in the history of the settle 
ment; and, thanking the President for the honor conferred upon him, 
was followed by J. D. Macaulay, Esq., local agent for the extensive firm 
of Messrs. Dodge & Co., who claimed that lumbering was a great bless 
ing to the settlers. It put money in circulation, gave employment 
during the winter months, furnished a cash market for all surplus pro 
duce, and prepared the way for railroad facilities. He was satisfied 
this would be a well-settled and prosperous part of Canada before long, 
and complimented the settlers on their intelligence and courtesy. 

" The Mechanical interests of Bracebridge" was replied to by Mr. D. 
H. Cameron and Mr. Robert Ferguson. The former thought that the 
Society should in future award prizes to manufacturers as well as io 
farmers, that the success of a country depended as much upon the one as 
the other. 

The latter thought that Muskoka was second to no place in Canada 
for hospitality and kindness to strangers. Here we knew how to enter, 
tain strangers. He did not regret leaving the city of Toronto to carve 
out a home in the wilderness, for here he had pure air, sound health, and 
a good appetite, and the prospect of a comfortable and independent 
.home. He advised the farmers and mechanics to pull together, and 



434* FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

stand united, and very soon Muskoka would be raised to take a promi 
nent position among the first counties of Ontario. 

" Our Host and Hostess" was replied to in a good-natured speech 
from Mr. B. W. Eoss, the spirited proprietor. 

Auld Lang Syne was then sung, and three cheers having been given 
to the Queen, the company separated, much pleased with the enjoyable 
evening they had spent. 

The following is the list of prizes awarded at the third annual show of 

the Muskoka Union of Townships Agricultural Society, held at Brace- 
bridge, 27th September, 1870. 

HORSES. 

Best Brood Mare, with foal at foot John Teviotdale, Esq $ 4 00 

Best Span of Horses M. McCarthy 4 00 

Second best do. "W. Sharpe 2 00 

SHEEP. 

Best aged Ram Messrs. Browning 3 50 

Second best S. Willis 2 50 

Best Ram Lamb W. Tait 3 00 

Second best do. A. J. Alport, Esq 2 00 

Best pen 2 Ewes Messrs. Browning 3 00 

Second best do.. W. Holditch 2 00 

Best pen 2 Ewes (having raised lambs this season), Messrs. 

Browning , 3 00 

Second best do. W. Tait 2 00 

Best 2 Ewe Lambs W. Holditch 2 50 

Second best do. Alexander Barron 1 50 

SWINE. 

Best Boar, over nine months old, Thomas George 3 00 

Best breeding Sow T. George 3 00 

Second best do. W. Sharpe 2 00 

CATTLE. 

Best Bull Thomas Keal, jun 5 00 

Second best do. G. Scholey, sen 3 00 

Best Bull Calf J. Teviotdale, Esq 2 00 



AGRICULTURAL SHOW. 65&gt; 

Best Milch Cow do. do 400 

Second best do. W. Sharpe 2 00 

Best yearling Heifer W. Sharpe 2 00- 

Second best do. W. Ennis 1 00 

Best 2 year old Heifer W. Sharpe 2 00 

Second best do. M. Moore 1 00 

Best Heifer Calf A. Black 2 00 

Best Yoke Working Oxen James Prunty 4 00 

Second best do. P. Managan 2 50 

Best Yoke 3 year old Steers W. Ennis 3 00 

Second best do. Charles Edgar 2 00 

POULTRY. 

Best Goose and Gander J. Tookey 75- 

Second best do. "W. Sharpe 50 

Best Turkey and Gobbler John Teviotdale, Esq 75 

Best Booster and 2 Hens John Teviotdale, Esq 75 

Second best do. James Tookey . 50 

Best Duck and Drake John Teviotdale, Esq 75 

Second best do. do do 50 

PRODUCE. 

Best two bushels Fall Wheat A. J. Alport, Esq 3 00 

Best two bushels Spring Wheat W. Tait 3 00 

Second best do Messrs. Browning 2 00 

Best two bushels Oats John Teviotdale, Esq 2 00 

Second best do A. J. Alport, Esq 1 50 

Best two bushels Peas John Teviotdale, Esq 2 00 

Best two bushels Barley R. Ennis 2 00 

Best two bushels Rye W. Tait 2 00 

Best bag Cup Potatoes Sanies Tookey 1 50 

Best bag Potatoes (any kidd) George Scholey, sen 1 50 

Best firkin Butter (10 Ibs.) Patrick Managan 3 00 

Second best do W. Tait 2 00 

Best roll Fresh Butter (2 Ibs.) W. Sharpe 3 00 

Second best do J. Tookey 1 50 

Best loaf borne-made Bread Nehemiah Mathews 1 50 

Second best do C. Jenkins 100 



&lt;&gt;6 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

Best collection of garden Vegetables Ralph Nicholson 2 00 

Second best do Charles Bard 1 50 

Third best do James Tookey 1 00 

LADIES DEPARTMENT. 

Best fancy Needlework in Berlin wool Mrs. Fenson 75 

Best specimen Knitting Mrs. W. Ennis 75 

Best Patch Quilt Mrs. R. Stewart 2 00 

Second best do Mrs. Fenson 1 00 

Best 2 Ibs "Worsted Yarn, spun at home Mrs. Hannah 2 00 

Second best do Mrs. J. Whitfield 1 00 

EXTRA PRIZES (COMMENDED). 

Span of horses, Richard Chapman two ewe lambs, John Kelly ; bull, 
Charles Robertson ; milch cow, Messrs. Browning ; heifer calf, Messrs. 
Browning ; working oxen, Charles Jenkins, James Tookey, Messrs. 
Browning, Charles Bard and "W. Whitfield ; boots and shoes, W. 
Kennedy ; horse shoes, Duncan Cameron ; card basket, Mrs. Thomas 
Myers ; braiding, Mrs. Thomas Myers ; sample needlework, &lt;fec., Mrs. 
"W. Kennedy; sofa pillow, Mi s. Thomas Myers; baby s jacket, &c., Mrs. 
Fenson ; fancy needlework, Mrs. A. Barron. 

TRADE. 

The following is from the Nortliein Advocate of the 25th November, 
1870 : 

" It is very gratifying for us to be in a position to state that the fall trade 
has been brisk, even beyond our expectations. The quantity of goods im 
ported into the district this season is almost incredible. Still, the demand 
lias been equal to the supply ; and if large cash purchases by the settlers 
be any criterion of prosperity, then Muskoka is eminently prosperous 
in fact, so rapidly is business increasing that a railway becomes a ne 
cessity ; for although there are hundreds of teams employed in the 
carrying trade, they are altogether inadequate to the growing require 
ments of the place. Outsiders may wonder how it is that money is so 
plentiful is Muskoka, and that purchasing for cash is the rule, not the ex 
ception, all through the settlement. For their information, we may just 
state that the crops this year were abundant, and the prices realized re- 



SOURCES OF ENJOYMENT. 67 

munerative, so that the settlers have the means within themselves to 
procure everything they require. 

Some of our correspondents seem wonderfully anxious about a market. 
Their constant inquiry is, where can you find a market for your surplus 
grain, etc. 1 Why, we have it here, right at our very door. Our store 
keepers will take in trade, or pay cash for any quantity of produce or 
raw furs ; and our cattle merchants will pay cash for any number of fat 
cattle. But some say, how long will this last 1 Well, we believe it will 
continue for years, for new settlers are pouring in so rapidly that a large 
quantity will be wanted to furnish them with seed, and sustain them, 
until they raise something for themselves. Then we have extensive 
lumbering operations going on, thus affording employment to many, and 
furnishing a cash market at the same time. Few can estimate the 
extensive importance of the lumbering operations carried on. in these 
parts. Here we have at work five of the largest and wealthiest lumber 
ing firms on the American Continent Messrs. Dodge & Co., Messrs. 
Clarke, White & Co., Messrs. Hotchkiss, Hughsoii & Co., Messrs. Cook 
Brothers, and the Bell Ewart Company. The first-named concern 
employs 800 men, and the others in like proportion. Who, then, can 
estimate the benefits derived by the united operations of those gigantic 
establishments 1 Another source of wealth to the settlers is the income 
derived from the sale of their saw-logs. Those who have obtained their 
patents realize the entire pfoceeds of their logs, and thus they are enabled 
to make greater improvements ; hence the wonderful rapidity of the 
growth and development of Muskoka. But some one asks, " What will 
become of you when lumbering ceases 1 Why the settlers will then be 
able to "paddle their own canoe!" Already they hear the snorting of 
the "iron horse;" and before the home market becomes glutted, they 
will be in direct communication with the city of Toronto, the best 
market in Ontario. 

SOURCES OF ENJOYMENT. 

Some imagine that because we live back in the woods, we must be ex 
tremely lonely, and destitute of all means of enjoyment. This is a great 
mistake. We would not exchange positions with our city friends. There 
is no end to our sources of pleasure. If hunting is our ambition, we 
have any amount of sport. If fast driving is our choice, the good sleigh 
ing which we have facilitates that means of enjoyment ; or, if we are 



68 FEEE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

fond of social gatherings, there are frequent opportunities of gratifying, 
it to the utmost, as the following cases will illustrate : 

THE SLEIGH RIDE. 

Calm is the niglit, and clear and bright ; 

The silver moon is shedding 
A flood of light o er the snow so white, 

And an icy glory spreading. 
The earth looks fair as a dream of love, 

In misty light the moon does lend her, 
And the starry vault of blue above 

Is sparkling bright with a frosty splendour. 

Swiftly we bound o er the frozen ground, 

Gaily, joyously, cheerily ; 
And our thoughts keep time to the musical chime 

Of the sleigh-bells tinkling merrily. 
For our hearts are attuned to the pleasing strains 

Of gladness, glee and innocent mirth ; 
And we feel, tho sin has made dark stains, 

Yet happiness lingers still on earth. 

In wrap and rug, right warm and snug, 

All care to the winds we fling ; 
And laugh and song, as we speed along, 

Make the silent forest ring. 
The distant owl our voices hears, 

And screams from his dark and lonely dell, 
In answer to our joyous cheers, 

A discordant, wild, unearthly yell. 

Faster we go the frozen snow 

From our horses feet is flying ; 
The echoes long repeat our song, 

Far in the distance dying. 
Our joyous breasts exulting bound, 

And utterance find in gleeful voice, 
Till rocks, and hills, and dales resound, 

And even the gloomy woods rejoice. 

Our sleigh now glides where the river hides 

Under the icebridge strong, 
Where deep and low the waters flow 

So silently along. 
And now it is past, and on we roam, 

By the frozen lake a snowy plain, 
Past the gleaming lights of the settler s home, 

And away through the lonely wood again. 

The Falls ! it is they ! We can see the spray 

That the seething waters toss, 
Like a glittering cloud, o er that foaming flood ; 

And now, as the bridge we cross, 
Its echoing thunders louder grow. 

C heck d is our noisy mirth and song, 
And \ve stop and gaze where far below 

The rolling torrent roars along. 



WOOL PICKING BEE. CD 1 

The trees that stand on either hand 

Are hung with icedrops fair 
With gems of light and jewels bright, 

And dazzling crystals rare ; 
Reflecting back eacli twinkling star, 

With a sparkling beauty rich and grand, 
A glittering scene, surpassing far 

Our wildest dreams of fairy land. 

When swiftly past, in the roaring blast, 

The frost king sweeps in his pride, 
His icy form the raging storm 

And the mantling snow wreath hide. 
And unseen spirits the way prepare, 

Wherever his royal feet would go, 
With dazzling carpets, white and fair, 

And the crystal bridge where waters now. 

I love the clink, on the frozen rink, 

Of the skater s iron heel ; 
The merry huzza of the boys at play 

With their sleds, on the slippery hill ; 
The long, long nights, by the bright fire-side, 

In the joyous home where happiness dwells ; 
And best of all, the merry sleigh-ride, 

And the musical chime of the tinkling bells. 



WOOL PICKING BEE. 

Sir, Understanding one of the objects of your columns being to con 
vey abroad information concerning our great country, as well as to- 
supply means of edification to our own people the settlers. It may, I 
think, be fairly regarded as a needful part of your work to give the out 
siders some idea of bush life, as well as land. One of the questions, 110 
doubt, arising in the minds of those moving in, would very likely be : 
How do the poor folks make out to pass their evenings 1 or, have they 
anything corresponding to missionary breakfasts, complimentary dinners, 
or oyster suppers 1 Some sketches of real life in the bush might serve 
the purpose of answering such questions. A " wool picking bee" (let me 
guard against being misunderstood), does not mean an insect of the bee 
kind peculiar to this region, and noted for picking the wool of the sheep,, 
but is the name for a kind of affair which will be best understood by a 
brief description of a single " bee." The one I had the privilege of 
attending Avas got up by a lady inviting her friends and neighbours 
on a given evening. A goodly number accepting, they assembled and 
commenced operations around a large home-made table, by teasing the 
tufts of wool, preparatory to further manufacture; meanwhile some of 



70 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

the young people were good naturedly teasing one another. Amongst 
the company present might be noticed the various functionarias of the 
locality, as trappers, postmaster, preachers, pathmasters, school teachers, 
miscellaneous traders, etc., and in most cases several offices meeting in 
the same individual, and all claiming the addition B."\V. (i.e., bush 
whacker), and not least, the correspondent of the Northern Advocate- 
But now the work and amusement proceed in unison, which is more 
than can always be accomplished. Interpersed, moreover, with some 
thing of edification, and not altogether without a religious bearing, hymn 
.singing, and a trifle of political and theological discussion, etc. 

Here in bush life is found, 
Work and play both abound, 
And yet strangely agree ; 
Here extremes we d unite, 
Here the sombre and bright, 
Mixed together you see ; 
Unrestrained seem to run 
Both the serious and fun 
In the "Wool-Picking Bee." 

About noon of night, there might, perhaps, be noticed a shade of falling 
off in the spirit of wool-picking, when a sound is heard indicating a 
change - f scene and a variety in the exercises to be introduced, of which 
one might for an hoiir or two previously have smellecl the approach 
Preparations are ordered, the wool is speedily removed, and picking of 
another kind introduced. It might do in the city to say " the delicacies 
of the season;" bvit here the dishes, or what was on them, would re 
quire somewhat varied terms to describe. It was in fact a great meal, 
of which the items would be more tedious to describe than they were to 
discuss practically. A roast beaver might, perhaps, be the most notable 
deviation from ordinary fare, but breakfast, dinner, and supper were so 
amply represented, that a good old-style brother declared the big table 
to be wickedly piled luxuries, when a youngster replied : "If this be 
wickedness I hope to be always a sinner." It is not too much to say 
that full justice was done in relieving the rude table from its cause of 
groaning ; so, having picked the wool, the bones of the beaver, and 
chickens, and singing the doxology, each seemed disposed to pick a part 
ner, and the " bee" stood adjourned sine die. This I must say in conclu 
sion, for the relief of some of your uninitiated readers who may feel a 
kind of commiseration for the sadness of poor bush life, and would 
start with alarm to hear of a wool picking bee ; had they only the chance 
of taking part in the affair they might be more disposed to envy than 



CONCERT, SOCIAL, ETC. 71 

pity ; and I seriously advise them, if ever they get an invitation to a 
wool-picking bee, go. S. 

Draper, October 26, 1869. 

The Nortlwrn Advocate of the 27th January, 1871, contains the fol 
lowing : 

CHURCH OF ENGLAND CONCERT. 

The concert held on Friday evening was a grand success, reflecting 
much credit upon those who made the arrangements, and deserved praise 
to the ladies and gentlemen who carried out so efficiently the excellent 
programme. 

We regret that want of space prevents us from entering into full par 
ticulars; but still it affords us much pleasure to state, that the Hall was 
brilliantly lighted, most tastefully decorated, and filled to its utmost 
capacity by the elite of the district, Avhile the whole entertainment ex 
ceeded our most sanguine expectations. 

The singing of the Misses Culverwell was exquisite. Their rendering 
of " The Valley of the Chamouni" was perfect, and displayed good taste 
and considerable cultivation. 

Mrs. Cozzens performed her part admirably. 

The Misses Fraser presided at the piano in a manner which fully jus 
tifies their high reputation ; and we have no hesitation in stating that 
in our opinion Miss Fraser is the best amateur pianist we have heard. 

Mr. Boultou exceeded himself on this occasion. 

Messrs. Wray, Richardson, Kirk, Walters and Dr. Bridgland, added 
much to the pleasure of the evening ; and the Messrs. Portas won golden 
opinions for their excellent rendering of the " Larboard Watch," &c. 
Altogether, a great treat was enjoyed, and should our Newmarket and 
Barrie friends visit us again, we can promise them a full house, and a 
hearty welcome. 

The building fund has been augmented over $40 by the concert. 

WESLEYAN SOCIAL. 

The third social of the season, under the auspices of the " Ladies Aid 
Society," was given by Mrs. Wm. Kennedy at the Orange Hall, Brace- 
bridge, on Tuesday evening. The attendance was larger than on any 
former occasion ; and the proceeds amounted to over $15, so that num 
erically and financially it was a great success. 



72 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

The programme was varied and attractive, and gave the most unquali 
fied satisfaction. The Misses Webster acquitted themselves admirably. 
Mr. and Mrs. Speer never gave greater satisfaction than on this occasion. 
Mrs. Burden, Mrs. Tomlin, and Miss Slater added very much to the en 
joyment of the evening. 

Mr. R. J. Bell, Mr. Long, Mr. Astley, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Russell, Mr. 
Macaulay, Mr. May, Mr. Burden and others, also took part in the meet 



ing. 



A vote of thanks was unanimously given to Mrs. Ross for the use of 
her excellent piano. 

The next social will be given by Mrs. Clerihue, and Mrs. Speer, on 
the 7th February, in the same place. 

GAME. 

The lovers of sport may here find ample scope for enjoying themselves... 
as game abounds all through the District. Deer is exceedingly plentiful. 
Some of my neighbours have shot as many as nine each in a single day. 
Partridge is abundant, and the quality excellent. Babbits also are 
numerous. 

Some time since, Mr. James F. Haines killed a large moose deer near 
"Vernon Lake, which stood from hoof to fore shoulder 18 hands high, and 
measured around the breast 6 feet 8 inches, while it was 8 feet 4 inches 
from head to tail ; the head from tip of the nose to the ears was 3 feet r 
and the noble animal carried a pair of very large horns. 

In November last I had the good fortune to join in the hunting ex 
pedition which took place at Prospect lake, the property of Colonel 
Maude, C. B., V. C. 

The first day the weather was rather unfavourable, but on the second 
it was all that could be desired. 

The gallant Colonel had all his arrangements most complete, and little- 
did the party think when they started that so grand a reception awaited 
them, or that they would enjoy so rich a treat. As to the sport, it was 
splendid, and far exceeded the expectations of the most sanguine. A 
good supply of beaver, mink and deer awai-ded the toil of those who took 
part in the chase. One young buck weighing over 160 Ibs., shot by Mr. 
J. Long, was very fat and exceedingly handsome, indeed it was the 
greatest beauty we ever saw. The head of this lovely creature is being 



FISHING. WINTER EMPLOYMENT. 73 

stuffed by Mr. Chas. Bard of this place, and will be preserved in com 
memoration of this gala occasion. 

Colonel Maude may well feel proud of Prospect lake. It is truly 
beautiful, while the country around forms a hunting ground which is un 
surpassed in the Muskoka district. The Colonel evidently is a man of 
progress. Considerable improvements have already been made, and his 
settlement in Draper is hailed with delight by all the inhabitants. 

FISHING. 

Our rivers abound with speckled trout, and our lakes with the finest 
quality of fish, such as bass, pickerel, white fish, and herrings. Salmon 
trout is also very plentiful in some of our lakes. 

WINTER EMPLOYMENT. 

Many of my readers may be anxious to know what the settlers do 
during the winter months, when the snow is deep. For the information 
of such I may state that the principal part of the chopping is done then, 
and further improvements effected, while some hire out at the lumbering 
shanties and earn good wages, to enable them to stay at home and work 
their farms during the summer. 

1 Now in the primal woods the axe resounds, 
And the tall pine receives its mortal wounds, 
As strode on stroke disturbs the silent snow, 
The wound enlarges by each well-aimed blow. 
The forest giant shakes in all his might, 
And crashing falls beneath his dispoised weight, 
And quickly carries to the branches bent, 
That strive in vain to stop his sure descent, 
A swift and certain ruin with rebound, 
And echoing woods repeat the thundering sound. 
Stript of his limbs, and squared, and hewn he lies, 
To human kind a good but hard-won prize. 
It soon is made to raise the sheltering house, 
Or o er the seas afar is doomed to roam, 
To build the bark, or to adorn the hall, 
liaised from the ruins of a forest fall. 
His roots remain to meet a slow decay, 
And mend the soil when sown some future day." 



EXTRACTS FROM THE SURVEYOR S REPORTS. 

I have thought it desirable to furnish extracts from the surveyor s 
reports, in order to give my readers a correct and, as far as possible, 
impartial description of the country. 



74 FEEE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

MORRISON. 

Partly bounded on the south-west by the river Severn and Sparrow- 
lake, and to the north by the township of Muskoka, contains 48,519 
acres, including water and roads. It was sub-divided into farm lots by 
P. L. S. J. 0. Browne, in 1860. 

EXTRACT FROM THE SURVEYOR S REPORT. 

" The township, upon the whole, presents a fine field for settlement, as 
is witnessed by the number of squatters who have made improvements 
upon the land. The soil is varied both in surface and quality, generally 
intersected by ridges having a bearing from north-west to south-east, and 
of more or less abruptness as they approach the deep channels of the 
lakes and rivers, or have been denuded and covered by alluvial soil in 
the flats and valleys which intervene. 

" The most rugged and unfavourable portion of the land is in the north 
and north-west portions of the township. The north-east shore of Leg 
Lake, and some parts of Lake Kah-she-she-Bog-a-mog, flanked by steep 
bluffs dipping down into deep water, and producing a stunted growth of 
dwarf oak, birch and inferior pine. The subjacent rock is gneiss, 
traversed by intrusive veins of highly crystalized gi-anite and pure quartz,, 
and passing gradually into micha schyst and clay-slate. The dip of the 
strata, where exposed, is from 30 to 45 to the east. 

" On the more exposed ridges, in several parts of the township, there 
appears strong indications of iron and copper ore of much purity. The 
spots on which I more particularly observed these, are on lot 16 in con 
cession A ; lot 5 in concession 6 ; and to the north of concession line 1 
and 2, about lots 30 and 31. 

" Approaching the southern portion of the township, the land gradually 
improves, and particularly upon the eastern shore of Sparrow Lake and 
the River Severn, and the River Kah-she-she-Bog-a-mog on the western 
side, and upon the southern and some parts of the eastern portion of the 
east side, there is a good breadth of excellent land, producing a prolific 
growth of valuable timber, with indigenous white clover and nutritious 
grass. This last named description of land extends into Ryde upon the 
east, and into the unsurveyed portion of Rama on the south. The latter 
I cursorily explored, whilst fetching a canoe up the Black River, which 
intersects it for about five miles on the south, and I believe that it would 
not only be highly favourable to cultivation, but would materially aid the 



DRAPER. 75- 



settlement of the southern and eastern district of the Township of Mor 
rison, if it were opened for sale, as it would afford access to the land which 
I have described above, on which, to my knowledge, settlers have been 
deterred from improving by want of access through the wilderness which 
now intervenes between it and the surveyed land. 

" -A. very favourable feature in the topography of the district, is the 
extent of water by which it is traversed, affording with little interruption, 
in its unimproved state, an unbroken chain of communication from either 
extremity of the township to the other, and abounding in excellent fish. 

" Upon the upper lakes, and the Elver Kah-she-she-Bog-a-mog, there 
are several falls well adapted for Mill sites. 

" The central portion of the east side is much occupied by large beaver 
ponds, which at present obstruct the natural drainage of the country, and 
drown much otherwise available land. The effect of settlement would 
be the immediate retreat of the beaver and the destruction of their dams, 
which would drain down wide breadths of land naturally productive of 

valuable crops." 

DEAFER 

Is situated to the east of the Severn and Muskoka Road, the Town 
ship of Muskoka lying on the south-east boundary, and contains 44,550 
acres, including water and roads, of which 20,000 acres, including water 
and roads, were subdivided by P.L.S. John K. Roche, in 1858. The 
following is an extract from the Report of Survey : 

" The Township of Draper is very well situated in regard to water 
and mill privileges, the Muskoka River flowing through the township, 
upon which there is an abundance of power ; and, in addition, it is cut 
up in every direction by streams and beaver ponds, possessing capabili 
ties of being turned to useful purposes. 

:t The surface of the township is generally hilly, undulating and roll 
ing, and very much so towards the south-eastern part ; the granite rock 
shows itself near to the surface in most parts, and there is a total 
absence of limestone throughout. The soil is principally composed of 
a sandy loam, in many instances covered with a rich black mould, and 
in the north-west part of the Township we found a clay subsoil, but 
sandy loam is the prevailing soil, and, where it is sufficiently deep, Avill 
produce excellent crops. The granite rock, in general, is too near the 
surface to favor the township for agricultural purposes, though I have 
no doubt a settlement will soon form, as there is a fair proportion of 



7G FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

good land adjoining the centre line in the valley of the Muskoka River, 
and about the north-west corner of the township, where good clay land 
is to be found. 

" The timber consists principally of hemlock, maple, beech, balsam, 
tamarac and pine, the latter inferior in quality and not suitable for 
merchantable purposes. A small proportion of cedar is found in the 
swamps, and very few oaks throughout the township." 

MACAULAY, 

On the North Branch of the Muskoka River, contains about 41,902 
acres, of which 26,000 acres have been subdivided into farm lots, inclu 
ding water and roads, surveyed by Provl. Land Surveyor, John Ryan, 

in 1857. 

"Of the portion of the Township surveyed, the soil generally is good 
day i n some cases, a sandy loam growing a very fine quality of hard 
wood, with but very few good Pines ; a considerable portion of the land 
is rocky, or strewed in detached patches with boulders, but is not, 
upon the whole, inferior in general character to that of the Southerly 
and Westerly boundaries, &c. 

"As far as has been observed and could be judged, the portion left 
unsurveyed is either too rocky or swampy and unfit for settlement, at 
least for the present. 

" From the Survey and examinations made, I incline to the opinion 
that some improvement in the character of the soil may be found to the 
eastward of Macaulay, and may be sought for, with better prospect of 
success in that direction, than in those of the other boundaries." 

MUSKOKA, 

Bounded on the South-west by the River Severn, and on the North 
by Lake and River Muskoka, and partly subdivided into farm lots by 
P.L.S. Rankin, in 1857, contains about 32,540 acres, of which 23,945 
acres have been subdivided into farm lots, including water and roads. 
The Muskoka Road runs in a North-easterly direction through the 
Township. The following extract is taken from Mr. Rankin s Report 

of Survey : 

" I have to report, that for the purpose of forming a settlement from 
the Severn to connect with Bell s Line to the Ottawa, a sufficiency of 
good land is found, so far as this township is concerned, lying in a 



e 



MUSKOKA AND WATT. 77 

tolerably direct route from near its S.-W. corner to the Great Falls of 
Muskoka, viz.: up, or near the side road between lots 20 and 21, to 
near the top of the 4th Concession, and thence along or near to the line 
by P.L.S. Unwin, leading directly to the Fall, where there is abundant 
water-power for mills or any other sort of machinery, and in the neigh 
borhood of which there is much excellent Pine. 

" As to the character and general features of this part of the country, 
I need only briefly observe, that the rocky ridges (granite) lie generally 
N.-E. and S.-W., and are of greater or less elevation and ruggedness, 
by far the worst part of the township in this respect being within the 
limits of the first three Concessions. 

" The shore of the lake also is, almost throughout, rocky and rough. 

" The best part of the township, and where the largest portions r 
together, of good land fit for settlement are found, is the N.-E. part, 
bordering on the Muskoka River in both its branches, along the Beaver 
River, and around the head of Muskoka Bay. 

" Some of the larger swamps, on being cleared up, and the Beaver 
Dams, which back water on them taken away, will no doubt prove 
desirable for cultivation. 

" The only stream (except the Muskoka River itself) of any note is 
the Beaver River, and that gets veiy low in summer. 

" No mill sites, except that at Muskoka Falls, were observed. 

" The Lake abounds in Islands mostly clumps of rock, though gen 
erally timbered. 

" The fish caught here are pickerel and bass in the summer ; white 
fish and trout, as I am informed, in the autumn." 

WATT 

Is situated in the county of Simcoe. It is bounded on the north by 
the township of Cardwell and Skeleton Lake, on the east by the town 
ship of Stephenson, on the south by the township of Monck, and on the 
west by Lake Rosseau. It was surveyed in 1865, by Provincial Land 
Surveyor T. W. Nash, and contains an area of 48,856 acres, including 
water and roads. 

The following is an extract from Mr. Nash s report of survey : 
" The soil of this township has a local reputation of being the best 
along the Parry Sound Road. The valleys furnish a rich clay loam, in 



78 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

some places inclined to sandy loam ; in the high parts the land is not so 
good, being light sandy soil. 

" The good land is found in the valleys in all parts of the township in 
larger or smaller tracts, there being but few lots but what have some on ; 
perhaps the valley of Three Mile Lake contains the best lots in the town 
ship, there is however much good land near Lake Rosseau. 

" The land taken by squatters is generally all good, some of the best 
lots, however, are still vacant. The poorest portion of the township is 
that north-east of the Parry Sound road lots, and that adjacent to the 
northern boundary, the fourteenth concession being mostly broken land. 
The shores of the waters are mostly lined with hemlock and scrubby 
pine, maple, balsam, pine and birch are found in all parts of the town 
ship, beech is found on the high sandy soils ; the pine is not found in 
groves, so that no portion of the township contains sufficient to reserve 
for timbering, but it is scattered pretty equally throughout the township, 
the best perhaps being on the portage from Lake Rosseau to Three Mile 
Lake, the largest found were about 3i to 4 feet diameter. 

" WATERS. 

" The water system is that of the Muskoka River, the whole drainage 
being to the west, into Lake Rosseau, then by Muskoka Lake and River 
in to the Georgian Bay. The surfaces of the lakes are about 100 feet 
below the main level of the country, and in many places have precipitous 
banks. Mill seats were found on lots No. 30, con. 1 ; No 13, con. 4 ; 
No. 24, con. 8 ; No. 42, con. A. 

"ADVANTAGES AND PROSPECTS OF SETTLEMENT. 

" The very best means of developing the resources of this township 
and neighbourhood is that already adopted by Government, by improv 
ing the Parry Sound road ; this road effectually opens up the whole of 
this township for settlement as well as most of the country immediately 
north and east of Lake Rosseau ; it possesses besides, military consider 
ations of some importance, as it affords military access to the defensive 
harbour of Parry Sound." 

THE FRIENDS OF THE EMIGRANT. 

Amongst the list of noble men who have taken a deep interest in emi 
gration, we must give a prominent place to the Rev. A. Styleman Her- 



THE FRIENDS OF THE EMIGRANT. 79 

ring, B. A., Incumbent of St. Paul s, Clerkenwell, London. For many 
years lie has been engaged in this benevolent work, and has been instru 
mental in assisting hundreds to come to our shores. We shall never for 
get with what pleasure he was met, on his arrival in our village, by some 
of the emigrants that he had been instrumental in sending to this coun 
try ; and at the public meeting held in honor of Attorney-General and 
party, when Mr. Herring was called up to reply, how gratefully he ac 
knowledged his gratitude to Almighty God for having put it into his 
heart to engage in this good work. Well might his parishioners give 
him a welcome on his return home, and present him with a handsome 
testimonial. He is a noble man, engaged in a noble work. By words 
of comfort and acts of kindness, he has endeared himself to many in the 
settlement. 

The Hon. Mrs. Hobart, of London (England), has also been doing a 
good work. 

The Hon. John Carling, Commissioner of Public Works, in his Annual 
Eeport for 1870, states that " during the past season, Colonel F. C. 
Maude, R.A., and the Rev. A. Styleman Herring, Vicar of Clerkenwell, 
London, both active members of Colonial Emigrant Aid Societies, have 
visited this Province for the purpose of ascertaining from personal ob 
servation, and from intercourse with the large number of emigrants 
which they had been instrumental in sending out, the condition of such 
in this their new field of labour. These gentlemen visited the cities 
and various towns in the Province, and addressed meetings of immi 
grants in Toronto, Ottawa, and other places, and every where received the 
most grateful acknowledgments from the immigrants for having assisted 
them to this country, where they are not only able to support themselves 
and their families, but in many instances already to provide themselves 
with freehold homesteads in the cities and towns, or in the Free Grant 
Districts of the Province. In addition to visiting many other sections, 
these gentlemen made an extended tour through the Muskoka District, 
with which they expressed themselves highly pleased, seeing in it a sec 
tion well calculated to furnish homes for the now distressed but steady 
and industrious working classes of the Old Country." 

It affords us great pleasure to add, that Colonel Maude has been so 
well pleased with the Free Grant Lands, that he has purchased a farm 
in the Township of Draper, in the District of Muskoka, and decided to 



80 FEEE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

become a permanent resident. Following notice is from the Northern 
Advocate of the 28th October, 1870 : 

COLONEL MAUDE, C.B., V.C. 

This gentleman, we are happy to state, has not only taken a very deep 
interest in emigration in London, England, but since his arrival in Canada 
he has been so favorably impressed with the country that he has decided 
to make it his home. With this object in view he has purchased the 
Prospect Lake property, and is now making the necessary preparations 
for building a suitable house for a family residence. 

Prospect lake is situated on the south-east corner of the township of 
Draper, 11 miles east of Gravenhurst, and 12 miles from Bracebridge. 
The Peterson road runs through the north part of the farm, so that he 
has the benefit of a good leading colonization road to his very door, 
which is a great advantage ; while at the same time it forms the best 
hunting ground in the district, from the fact that there is no settlement 
.south of his property, Kyde Township not being in market. The writer 
was on the spot a few days ago, and found partridge, duck, deer, etc., 
in great abundance. 

The gallant Colonel, in our opinion, has made the best speculation 
that has ever been made in Muskoka. We wish him much success. 

EMIGRATION AND IMMIGRATION. 

(To the Editor of the "Northern Advocate") 

SIR, My object in visiting your hospitable shores was to ascertain 
FOR MYSELF whether my emigrant friends were progressing satisfactorily. 
Most glad am I to be able to report favorably. 

Some few have undoubtedly signally failed, but it is through their own 
misconduct or by unforeseen circumstances, but to the honest, persever 
ing, above all to the sober, Canada affords ample opportunities for ad 
vancement. I am informed 40,000 emigrants have settled in the Domin 
ion during the past two years. Yesterday I met here a man earning 
$20 per week, sometimes $5 per day, who previous to emigration, was 
eighteen months almost out of work. Who will gainsay the benefit to 
ail parties, of such an emigration ] 

Great Britain has thousands of good charactered persons, able and 
willing to work, but cannot now obtain it. Why not induce them to 
move here, and thereby add strength to the Dominion ? 



EMIGRATION AND IMMIGRATION. 81 

I am encouraged to entertain strong hopes that the Government will 
liberally respond to the almost universal voice of public opinion and put 
forth more powerful means of attracting and perhaps aiding, the honest? 
industrious and sober to locate within this favored Dominion. 

Population and wealth generally go hand in hand, and Canada greatly 
requires the one, and the other will speedily follow. 

Canada was never so prosperous as at the present moment. Let the Gov 
ernment of the Dominion ; the municipal authorities and private indi 
viduals, EACH, nobly and liberally forward on this movement, which 
must inevitably lead to most beneficial results to the whole community. 

A word to my emigrant friends : After having travelled from Quebec 
to Sarnia,from Parry Sound to Niagara, visited many emigrants at their 
home, the grant districts (100,000 acres of which have been taken up for 
settlement since April last) and Eastern Townships, 1 am more and more 
convinced of the blessings of Emigration. 

I find those who care for your souls are zealous, the school system 
excellent, land and the necessaries of life cheap, and labor good. To all 
of you I say, "Go forward," (Exodus 14 15.) Do not look back too 
much on the gloomy past, but look hopefully forward to the future. 
Avoid murmuring (!) Keep to your churches. (2) Keep from the 
whiskey, the curse of this land, woe be to any legislature which encour 
ages the multiplication of liquor shops. (3.) Keep care of your cents 
and dollars. Establish " Emigrant Aid Societies, which aim at giving 
advice to those newly arrived from the old country, a savings bank, a 
labor mart for hirers and those requiring work sick and medical 
clubs getting out relatives by weekly payments, &c. The Ottawa 
Society is flourishing. J. Johnson, Esq., Department of Agriculture, 
Ottawa, will gladly forward their prospectus. 

I bg publicly to express my gratitude to the Messrs. Allan [Montreal 
Steamship Co.] for their considerate and liberal treatment of my emi 
grants. 

I shall carry home (whither I proceed in a few days, after 12,000 
miles of travel) the happy feeling that many who in the old country 
were in poverty and misery, are now by the blessing of God compara 
tively in a state of happiness, contentment, and comfort. 

I tender my most heartfelt thanks to all parties for the many acts of 
kindness and hospitality I have received from many dear and valued 



82 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

friends, and I shall ever pray God Avill abundantly bless and prosper the 
people of this country. 

I remain, sir, your obedient servant, 

A. STYLEMAN HERRING, 

St. Paul s, Clerkenwell, London. 
Ottawa, October 2~&gt;. 



N 

THE ONTARIO GOVERNMENT VISIT MUSKOKA. 

The members of the Ontario Government and other celebrities 
visited the Free Grant Districts. I have pleasure in inserting the 
following, copied from the Noi-lltrrn Adrnmtf. published at Bracebridge, 
Muskoka. 

On the 14th Sept., 1870, Bracebridge was visited by the Hon. John S. 
Macdonald, Attorney-General; the Hon. S. Richards, Commissioner of 
Crown Lands ; the Hon. John Caiiing, Commissioner of Public Works ; 
the Rev. A. S. Herring, B. A., Incumbent of Clerkenwell, London (Eng 
land) ; Charles Marshall, Esq., London (England) ; Fred. Cumberland, 
Esq., M.P.P. ; Wm. Lount, Esq., M.P.P. ; A. P. Cockburn, Esq., -M.P. 
P. ; the Hon. Sidney Smith, John A. Donaldson, Esq., and a number of 
distinguished persons. 

On the day of their arrival, the villagers got a hint of their intended 
visit, and resolved to give them a reception. Immense bonfires were 
kindled on the banks ol the river just as the steamer ""Wenonah" ap 
proached the wharf, and the effect produced by those illuminations was 
grand beyond description. A large concourse of people assembled at 
the landing, and gave the company three of as hearty cheers as ever 
greeted the ear of mortal. The party Avere then conveyed to the 
" Dominion House," where a splendid entertainment was got up by Mr. 
Ross, the well kncnvn host. 

The chair Avas occupied by John Teviotdale, Esq,, Reeve of the 
United ToAvnships of Draper, Macaulay, Stephenson, etc., and the vice- 
chair by Robert E. Perry, Esq. 

After ample justice had been done to the good things provided, the 
chairman rose and proposed the first toast " the Queen," which Avas 
drank Avith all honours ; this Avas followed by " the Governor and Lieu 
tenant-Governors of the Dominion of Canada," Avhich Avas most 
enthusiastically received. 



THE ONTARIO GOVERNMENT VISIT MUSKOKA. 80- 

Next came "the Army and Navy," Avhich was responded to by Wm. 
Lount, Esq.,M.P.P., in a humorous speech. Mr. Lount concluded with 
expressing his strong disapprobation of the manner in which the 
Dominion Government had treated those brave men who were prepared 
at whatever sacrifice to defend our homes. 

" The Ontario Government was then proposed, to which the Hon. 
Mr. Macdonald replied. He stated that when he left Toronto he had 
no idea that such a reception awaited him. The great object he had in 
visiting Muskoka was, to examine the surface of the country ; and he 
was surprised to find such a crowd of persons congregated to welcome 
him. He took a deep interest in the prosperity and development of the 
North, and hoped that the day was not far distant when this section 
would be as flourishing as those townships on our frontier. He con 
sidered that the credit of settling up our wild lands was due to his 
Government, that the policy he had adopted was experimental and 
worked well. The present Government he contended was a Govern 
ment of the people, not of party ; their object was to advance the best 
interests of the country, not of party. He intimated that they had a 
large surplus of money to be disposed of, and stated that upon all 
reasonable representations he would give us a helping hand. He con 
tended that he had introduced a greater number qf reforms, and 
established a system of economy, such as no former Government could 
lay claim to, and made an able defence of the course he had pursued 
since the coalition. 

" Our Guests" was replied to by the Hon. S. Eichards, who said that 
it was not the want of interest in Muskoka that prevented him from 
visiting it before this, but his duties, public and private, were so enor 
mous that he found it impossible to get away, and concluded by wishing 
the settlement continued success. 

Success to the Emigration Societies of old England. This toast was ably 
responded to by the Eev. A. Styleman Herring, who said that he was 
very thankful that God had put it into his heart to engage in this good 
work, and Avas rejoiced to find that here the over-croAvded population of 
England could find employment at high wages, and vastly improve their 
circumstances. He had frequent opportunities since his arrival of con 
versing Avith those who had been transplanted to Canada, and he found 
that they had been vastly benefited in their circumstances by the change ; 



$4* FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

and he was perfectly satisfied that those emigrants who were sober and 
industrious would succeed. 

Success to the Toronto, Simcoe and Miiskoka Junction Railway was drank 
with great enthusiasm, and ably responded to by Mr. Cumberland, M.P. 
P. In his reply he remarked that he felt that he was surrounded by 
friends, and was glad to be in a position to state that the building of the 
road was now a fixed fact. His mission to England had been entirely 
successful, and the stockholders were willing not only to embark in the 
undertaking, but manifested much sympathy in the object. At first 
some persons were ready to doubt the sincerity of those engaged in this 
extension ; but the men who took hold of this enterprise were thoroughly 
in earnest, and were possessed of courage and perseverance, and blessed 
with means to carry on to a successful completion any undertaking in 
which they embarked. He desired to speak out honestly, and to be dis 
tinctly understood in reference to this scheme. He considered that the 
road to Washago would be a paying investment for the shareholders ; 
but beyond that point it would not be so for some time to come ; how 
ever, they were prepared to give pound for pound of what it would cost 
to build the road from Washago to Bracebridge. He was pleased to sec 
so much interest taken in the Free Grant Districts by the Ontario 
Government, and felt confident that if a Eailway was built to Brace- 
bridge, two years would accomplish for this Section what it would re 
quire twenty years under the present system to effect. Considering this, 
he was satisfied that the Government would render reasonable assistance, 
as it was eminently calculated to further the interests of emigration, and 
raise the Districts into a position, whereby they would become a source 
of enrichment to our flourishing Dominion. He concluded by stating 
that if the Municipalities did their duty the road would certainly be 
completed as quickly as labor and capital could accomplish the task. 

Mr. Teviotdale on being called, rose and stated, that we would be 
gainers by giving a bonus to the Eailway, for at present we had to pay 
indirectly large sums for freight on goods that would be greatly reduced 
when Eailway communication was established. 

The Health of Mr. Teviotdale, Iteere of Bracebridge, was then proposed 
by the Hon. John S. Macdonald, and drank with all honors. 

Protrxriiy to the Free Grant Districts, was replied to by Mr. Thomas 
McMurmr, who referred to the great improvements made since he set- 



TH3 ONTARIO GOVERNMENT VISIT MUSKOKA. 85 

tied in Draper, in 1861, and while giving the Government great credit 
for what had been done, he said there were other things which required 
legislation. It seemed very hard that the settler who was at liberty to 
burn up his pine, while performing his settlement duties, was prevented 
from selling that timber without paying the Government 75 cents a 
thousand for the same. He thought that the settler should have the pri 
vilege of making the most of whatever timber was upon any land that 
ite was actually clearing, as it would assist him materially in further im 
provements. Another matter, which deeply affected the interests of the 
settlers, was the cancellation of arrearages. Now that the District was 
thrown open to actual settlers on the Free Grant system, those persons 
who had taken up land prior to the passing of that Act, and had paid 
one or more instalments, were exceedingly desirous of getting the bal 
ance cancelled, and unless this is done, great suffering will be caused to 
some who have not the means to meet those instalments. He then 
alluded to the unsafe state of the Registry Offices, and urged the pro 
priety of introducing an Act to authorize the erection of suitable 
Eegistry Offices at Bracebridge, Parry Sound, Nipissing and Sault Ste. 
Marie. He also contended that the formation of the District into a 
Provisional County, giving us control of our own municipal funds would 
be a boon to the settlement. 

Our Local Member was next toasted, and Mr. A. P. Cockburn, M. P. 
P., responded. 

Xext came the Health of Mr. Chas. W. Lount, S. M., which was fol 
lowed by that of Mr. "Win. Lount, M. P. P., who replied in a speech, 
characterized by much eloquence. He believed that this Section would 
be vastly benefited by the proposed Railway, that the idea of waiting till 
the country was settled before building a Railroad was a fancy of the 
past ; that now it was seen that where a Railway went settlement im 
mediately followed. He attributed the great success of the United 
States, to the fact that they encouraged Railroad enterprise, and pro 
mised to give all the assistance in his power to procure for the settlers 
this great boon. He concluded an able speech by stating that he found 
in Muskoka a superior class of settlers to that of any other new district 
he had ever visited. 

The lumbering interests of the North was ably replied to by John D. 
Macaulay, Esq., the popular representative of Messrs. Dodge & Co. 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

The Health of John A. Donaldson, Esq., Immigration Agent, was then 
proposed and drank with great enthusiasm. 

The Commercial ami Agricultural Interest* of Uracelridge was replied to 
by Thomas Myers, Esq. 

The Press was ably responded to by Chas. Marshall, Esq., (a gentleman 
from London, England, who is better known to the readers of the 
" Saturday Review," as Heraclitug Grey.) He expressed the pleasure he 
had in visiting the Free Grant Districts. He believed that Canada had 
a great future before her, and that she would yet be the great power 
upon the American Continent. 

The Province of Quebec contains as many square miles as all France ; 
Ontario as many as England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. New Bruns 
wick is larger than Holland and Belgium ; Nova Scotia exceeds Eng 
land. Columbia has more territory than the whole North German Con 
federation, together with all the South German States. The North- 
West is larger than all Russia in Europe, with Sweden, Norway and 
Denmark counted in, and counted twice over. Besides our vast terri 
tory, we were raising a magnificent race of men and women. He thought 
that Canada had not been sufficiently appreciated by England, and ex 
pressed himself delighted with the scenery of our beautiful lakes and 
rivers. 

Success to our American GW.sw*, was next drank, and ably responded 
to by Mr. Barker, correspondent of the fyr infield EepuUican, who, in 
his remarks, paid a very high tribute to the firm of Messrs. Dodge & 
Company, whom he designated one of the wealthiest, and, at the same 
time, one of the most honourable firms on the American Continent. 

" God save the Queen" was then sung, and three rousing cheers given 
for Her Majesty, after which the company separated. 

Next morning the Attorney-General visited the grand Muskoka Falls,, 
and other points of interest. At 1 1 o clock the whole company Avent on 
board the " Wenonah," and started off amidst the cheers of a vast con. 



course who had gathered to witness their departure. 

We understand that on their way to Port Carling, they were enter 
tained at " Maple Grove " by Squire Alport. 

FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS. 

The great policy of the day is being further developed ; and we believe 
that during the present year much will be done to promote the settle- 



BUSHRANGERS. 87 

men! of our wild lands. Several new features have lately presented 
themselves to the friends of immigration. One is to appoint 

BUSHRANGERS. 

For years I have advocated the propriety of appointing guides, men 
capable of leading emigrants through the bush, whose business it would 
be to see them properly located. For want of this, numbers have been 
so discouraged that they have left the settlement. If the present Min 
istry will adopt this course, the comfort of emigrants will be greatly 
promoted, and the interests of the settlement vastly benefited. Cer 
tainly the Government deserve great credit for what they have already 
done ; but here is an opportunity of adding powerfully to the rxrosperity 
of the settlement, and I trust that their rigid economy for which they 
deserve great praise, will not prevent them from taking immediate action 
in this matter. Suitable men can be obtained, and the benefits which 
are certain to result, would fully warrant the moderate expenditure re 
quired. 

Immigration agents should also be appointed, one at Bracebridge, and 
another at Parry Sound, to attend to emigrants and land seekers on 
their arrival. How it would smooth the path of the stranger, if, on his 
landing he was met and seen after by some responsible person acting 
under the direction and control of the Government. The Telegraph 
says : 

" The indifference of the land, most accessible and easy of observation, 
is a strong argument in favor of Government appointing 

AUTHORIZED AGENTS, 

selected from experienced settlers in each district, to point out to in 
tending settlers the most desirable lots, as many in their inexperience 
select worthless land, and do not discover their mistake until they have 
spent their money and become discouraged. These agents should not 
only be prepared to point out the best localities, but also give them 
practical advice with reference to clearing the ground, the best crops, 
the easiest means of building their shanties, and various other matters 
which experience makes so easy." 

In addition to this it has been suggested that the Government should 
cause a certain amount of clearance to be made and a house erected 



.88 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 



on each lot, so as to have all prepared for the reception of immigrants. 

The London Free Press, in an article on this subject, says : 

"How best to settle the unoccupied lands of Ontario, is a matter not 
&lt;os yet fully determined. Various plans have been tried; and, though 
they have had their measure of good, yet all the means at command 
have not been exhausted. The peculiar nature of the lands, and their 
primitive forest condition, is such as to deter many settlers, unaccus 
tomed as most of them are to forest life, to enter upon them, while the 
fertile plains of the west offer so tempting a picture. True, the new 
comer seldom takes into consideration the various elements that collect 
ively constitute Canada a preferable place for continuous abode ; its 
healthful climate ; a plentiful supply of pure water ; the presence of 
ample fuel ; of timber for building and fencing purposes ; to say nothing 
of the equitable administration of justice, and the general prevalence of 
law and order. Such advantages tod often fail to strike the mind of 
the European emigrant, Avhose imagination has been filled with the 
prospect of fertile prairies, which can be rapidly brought into cultivation. 
The debilitating fevers, the fitful climate, the scorching sun, followed by 
-deadly dews, are reserved for experience to tell the full force of. The 
present is too often seized upon by them to the neglect of opportunities 
lasting in their character, and beneficial in their operation. How best 
to counteract the tendency alluded to, is a matter worthy of considera 
tion. Many suggestions have been made, but there is one yet to be 
tried, of which a few words may be said. We refer to the establishment 
of experimental townships, in which certain preparations shall have been 
made, so that the settler may find a home ready for himself and family, 
or such a portion of the forest cleared as will afford him a toot-hold of 
prosperity. The proposition we desire to advance is, that Government 
should select some townships, through which roadways should be cut, 
and on each farm a small house put up, and a small clearing, say of 
three acres, prepared. One hundred homes might thus be made in each 
township, the expense of which, and it would not be much, might 
remain as a charge upon the land. To suitable settlers such farms 
might be offered by the Government, t the only charge being the outlay 
on the erection and clearing. It would be a great inducement to many 
to throw in their lot with us, if it could be said that, on a lot in such a 
township a home awaited them ; a home which, while it would offer 
immediate shelter, would at the same time supply the means of imme- 



BUSHRANGERS. 89 

diate subsistence. Private companies have found this plan of procedure 
to answer well, and lead to the best results. Such an experiment has 
recently been tried in the State of Maine ; a company not only pre 
paring homes in advance, as we have pointed out, but actually bringing 
over the emigrants free of charge. The country to -which they went to 
seek their population was Sweden ; and, by locating people togethei of 
similar antecedents, similar language, and, as far as possible, of previous 
acquaintanceship, the irksomeness of recommencing life, and in the bush, 
has been wonderfully softened. It has been found in Canada, however, 
that private land companies have not proved to be continuously advan 
tageous. The aim of such companies has been, in the main, to make 
money out of their speculations ; and hence lands that might have been 
settled have been held back, or else leased out at an oppressive rental. 
But the object of our Government is not to be found in a direct money 
settler. If population is secured the prime end in view is obtained, and 
thus the chief cause of the failure of enterprises such as we allude to 
would be removed. It might be well to commence with one experi 
mental township, which could be easily settled out of the incoming 
immigration; and, if the plan was found to succeed, others would soon 
be treated in a similar manner. The offer of " One Thousand Homes- 
to One Thousand Families" would attract a vast amount of attention at 
home, and would lead to organizations among contiguous residents such 
as has not been seen. If the head of a family had the assurance of the 
Government agent, that, upon landing at Quebec, lie and his little ones 
would be at once conveyed, free of charge, to a home, half the terrors 
of emigration would bo at once removed. An oppressive uncertainty 
would be turned into a pleasing assurance, leading up a prosperous 
future. Thousands would gladly embrace such opportunities. They 
would be brought face to face with a tangible advantage such as would 
inspire them with confidence and hope. The fair picture of a prairie 
home would be dulled by the comparison, and a result would be, that a 
large portion of the European outflow would be directed here ; and 
another advantage which would ensue would be the permanence of a 
population so constituted. Once settled in their home they would soon 
become attached to it, and no thought of roaming would present itself ;. 
and this consideration is by no means an unimportant one, seeing that 
one of the chief difficulties that affects the increase of the population by 
means of immigration lies in the fact that many who accept the aid the 



00 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

country affords do so only as a stepping-stone to the States. Under the 
system suggested, this difficulty would be abated, if not altogether re 
moved, and no portion of the general outlay would be lost in helping to 
build up the neighboring people. We hope, therefore, that some such 
plan may have a fair trial ; and. if it is once successful, it will lead to a 
change in immigration matters which will be bountifully beneficial. 

RELIGIOUS AND EDUCATIONAL. 

The religious advantages of Muskoka and Parry Sound far exceed 
the expectation of strangers unacquainted with the settlement. Visitors 
not unfrequently entertain the idea that the settlers are shut out from 
all facilities for the public worship of God, but, happily, it is not so. 
Religion cultivates a spirit of true sympathy and genuine benevolence, 
and manifests itself by works of faith and labors of love ; it delights in 
blessing mankind with the knowledge of the Lord, hence love for the 
souls of men have led to the formation of missionary societies, whereby 
remote districts are visited with Gospel light. The Methodist Church 
is peculiarly a missionary church since its formation, the words of the 
venerable founder, " The world is my parish," has been selected as the 
motto of his successors, and they are consequently found as the pioneers 
in almost every new field of labor. The Wesleyan Methodists have the 
honor of having been the first to sound the Gospel Trumpet in these 
districts. No sooner had it become known that a Wesleyan family had 
settled in Draper than the Rev. J. L. Kerr, Avho was then stationed in 
Orillia (1861) rode on horse-back 35 miles, to hold Divine Service ; nor 
did he fail to continue to do so until the conference appointed a mis 
sionary, namely, the Re\ . (leo. McNamara, who had the honor of being 
the first regular Wesleyan Minister appointed to this mission. While 
the Wesleyans were the first to preach the WORD in Muskoka, the 
Methodist Episcopal Church were the first to appoint a missionary to 
this mission, because their Conference met earlier then the We.sleyan 
Conference. The minister appointed by the M. E. Church was the L ; i-\. 
Gilnian Wilson, and we are glad to add that he has continued an actual 
settler in our midst up till this day. At present the different denomi 
nations are well represented. We have in all 12 ministers, comprising 
4 Wesleyans, 2 Primitive M ethodist, 2 Presbyterians, 3 Church of Eng. 
land, 1 Congregation alist, besides a number of lay agents. 

At Bracebridge, we have, a Wesleyan Church, a Presbyterian meeting 



RELIGIOUS AND EDUCATIONAL. 91 

house, and there is a Church of England close by, so that the inhabit 
ants are well provided with the means of Grace. The following letter 
from the Rev. Walter Wright, Local Superintendent of Schools, will be 
read with interest. 

GOSHEN LODGE, MUSKOKA FALLS, 

December 29th, 1870. 

To the Editor of the Northern Advocate. 

DEAR SIR, It would seem to be beyond dispute that the Muskoka 
Territorial District is making very rapid progress in all matters, civil, 
commercial, and agricultural, in everything fitted to promote the tem 
poral prosperity of any people. So speedy, steady, and substantial has 
this march of progress been, that I suppose it would be difficult to find 
a fair parallel to it in the entire history of new settlement. I think there 
has also been a somewhat proportionate progress in things relating to 
religion, morality, and general education. 

1st. In religion, I do not mean that we have had any striking conver 
sions to God, or remarkable revivals of religion. For these we pray, and 
hope, and wait till God shall send his Holy Spirit abundantly on us as 
a people. But Avith the tide of emigration, there have come in among 
us many truly pious persons, connected with the various denominations 
of professing Christians, and these, added to those who were formerly in 
the settlement, have helped to elevate the general tone of society. Be 
sides, to moet the spiritual necessities of a largely increased and constant 
ly increasing population, there has been a considerable increase in the 
number of Christian labourers and means of grace. Several churches 
have been built, and several others are in contemplation. One leadin- 
feature of our religious progress is the great interest everywhere taken in 
Sabbath schools ; and of these we have several, which are both very well 
attended and very well conducted. 

2nd. In morality. Doubtless the influx of new settlers, many of them 
of a highly respectable and superior class, an increase in the number of 
true Christians, and a greater number of religious services among us, 
have all had their influence in raising the standard of general morality. 
That it is higher than at one time can hardly be doubted. For example, 
at no very distant date, Sabbath profanation, in various forms, was very 
common. A great deal of teaming used to be freely done on Sabbath ; 
and I am credibly informed that there were those, in different parts, who 
would not scruple to log and burn their files, and do other farm work 



92 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

on the Lord s Day, while it was not difficult to procure the means of 
indulgence in intemperate habits on the Sabbath. Now, these things 
are almost utterly unknown ; and, although there are many confirmed 
drunkards, apd far too much intemperance among us, yet there are sev 
eral very striking instances of reformation from this worse than beastly 
vice. I think there is also a manifest improvement in regard to the 
abominable and degrading habit of profane swearing. Cases of theft are 
very rare among us. Altogether, our new settlement will compare very 
favourably, in point of general morality, with any other part of Canada 
or of the old world. 

3rd. In Education, a general and constantly increasing interest is be 
ing taken in the education of the youths of our land. 

This is shown in various ways. Our county and township councils 
give this subject a prominent place in their deliberations and provisions r 
while our Local press finds room for frequent and extended discussions 
upon it. The number of schools in operation has increased during the 
past year by nearly fifty per cent. 

The aggregate attendance at each of the schools has also greatly in 
creased. The standard of qualification in teachers is gradually but sure 
ly rising, and there is a very strong desire cherished by all classes every 
where to have our schools open during a longer period of the year than 
has hitherto obtained. Besides all this, resolutions have been passed 
and preparations made for the erection of new school houses in almost 
every part of the district. Two very neat and comfortable school houses 
have been erected and occupied for some time and others in various- 
stages of preparation, and we have youths among us whose already 
proved natural abilities and present attainments give ground to hope 
that, with the blessing of God, they may one day be a credit to Muskoka 

or to any other land. 

I have the honour to be, 

Dear Sir, 

Yours, very truly, 

WALTER WRIGHT, 

Congregational Minister, 

And Located Superintendent of Common Schools for Draper and Ma- 
caulay, &c. 

The following we clip from the annual report of the Missionary So 
ciety of the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Canada for 1869 and 1870- 



EELIGIOUS AND EDUCATIONAL. &lt;);}. 



MUSKOKA. 

It is now eight years since the first Missionary was appointed by the- 
Wesleyan Conference to this field of labor. Since then, although 
Methodism has been slowly but steadily advancing and increasing in 
numbers, it was not until last year that it could boast of possessing 
either Church, Parsonage, or other connexional property of any dis- 
cription on the Mission. We have now a comfortable Parsonage, which r 
through the liberal policy of an efficient Board of Trustees, has been 
partly furnished ; also one Church in course of erection, while at several 
of the appointments our people contemplate building soon. During the 
past year, most of our congregations have largely increased, while, by 
the assistance of a second preacher, we have been enabled to take up 
four new appointments, at each of which we have organized a class. 
There are now 12 appointments and 11 classes on the Mission. Had 
we men and means there is yet room and urgent demands for an exten 
sion of the work. Immigration has rapidly increased this spring. New 
settlements are being formed still farther northward in the Free Grant 
District, from which frequent and earnest invitations are sent to your 
Missionaries to follow them in and preach to them the Word of Life. 
We feel deeply for the future prosperity and ultimate success of this 
portion of our Mission work. 

After deducting 18 for deaths, removals, &c., we report a net increase 
of 52. Members, 121 ; on trial, 15; Total, 136. 

S. B. PHILLIPS. 

DEDICATION. 

OF THE FIRST WESLEYAN CHURCH IN THE DISTRICT OF MUSKOKA, 

One of the most important events that has taken place in the history of 
Muskoka, has just been successfully completed. A new Wesleyan 
Church has been erected in the village of Bracebridge ; and was dedi 
cated to the public worship of Almighty God on Sabbath, _$he llth De 
cember, 1870. 

The Eev. F. Berry, chairman of the Barrie District, had the distin 
guished privilege of officiating on the auspicious occasion, and preached 
three appropriate sermons to crowded congregations. The presentation 
was made by Mr. Thomas McMurray, one of the trustees. On the fol- 
owing evening a tea meeting was held for the purpose of liquidating 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MttSKOKA. 

the debt on the edifice. The church was thronged, and a deep interest 
was taken in the object. Mr. J. Long was appointed chairman, and 
conducted the meeting with great ability and general satisfaction. 

The following gentlemen addressed the meeting : The Eev. Mr. 
Gibson, the Eev. Mr. Potter, the Rev. Mr. Mattingly, the Rev. Mr. 
Webster, the Rev. Mr. Berry, and Mr. Taylor. Mr. James Clerihue 
read the financial statement, which showed a balance of $350 due on the 
church, and said that it was desirable that the debt should be wiped 
out. Mr. McMurray, on being called, stated that an effort would be 
made to raise the amount due, and hoped that every one present would 
assist, and thus have the church dedicated free of debt. The Rev. Mr. 
Webster thought that, as this was the first Wesleyan Church erected in 
the district, we should not ask any assistance from the Church Relief 
Fund, but that we should leave that for those poorer places which had 
more need of it than Muskoka. Mr. Clerihue and Mr. McMurray then 
passed round with the subscription lists, and returned to the chairman 
with the gratifying intelligence that the entire amount had been raised ; 
thus the first Wesleyan Church in the District of Muskoka has been de 
dicated free of debt. It has been said that "actions speak louder than 
words ; " and we ask those who cry down Muskoka to note this fact 
that at a tea meeting in the village of Bracebridge, on the 12th Decem 
ber, where the members had previously been heavily taxed towards the erec 
tion of the church, when an appeal was made to them for $350 more, in 
order to have the entire debt removed ; the whole amount was sub 
scribed in a few minutes. We trust that outsiders will learn a lesson 
from this incident. 

The music was under the able leadership of Mr. J. H. Speer, Mr. 
Moorhouse presiding at the organ ; and it is not too much to say that 
the choir performed their part well. The Rev. Mr. Berry eulogized it 
exceedingly, and said he never heard better music, nor witnessed greater 
liberality. 

We cannot conclude this notice without a special allusion to the ad- 
dress given by Mr. Webster. On rising, lie evinced great emotion, and 
delivered one of the most earnest addresses we ever heard. As the 
chairman of the district remarked, "he is the right man in the right 
place ;" and the value of his speech may be judged by one remark made 
by Mr. Berry, namely, that he would not grudge coming all the way 



A BLACK PICTURE. 95 

from Collingwood to Muskoka to hear the address that he had just 
delivered. 

Votes of thanks were unanimously passed to the Orange body for the 

use of their Hall, to the Presbyterians for the use of their Meetin-- 

o 

house, to the ladies for the excellent festival, to the choir for their ser 
vices, and to the chair. The doxology was then sung, and benediction 
pronounced, and the meeting separated. 

Next evening a free tea was given to the Sabbath School children and 
others, which was also a great success. 

"A BLACK PICTURE." 

As I have no desire to extol the District, and am anxious to give a 
fair and impartial account of the settlement, I submit the following con 
troversy, so that my readers may have both sides and draw their own 
conclusions therefrom. 

The St. Mary s Vuleite, of the 27th tilt., contains an article under the 
nbove heading, which is too rich to let slip the notice of our readers 
and in order to furnish them with a little amusement, we give it un 
abridged : 

" A few days ago, a party of eighteen or twenty farmers from this 
neighborhood, having read the glowing newspaper accounts of the free 
grant lands to the North, started on an expedition to Muskoka, to ex 
plore the region for themselves, and see whether it would be advisable 
for them to move thither. On arriving there, they split up into sub 
sections, each detachment taking a particular field. These traversed the 
most " promising " townships, examining the soil, consulting the people, 
taking notes of the landscape, observing the crops, and obtaining all the 
information possible. After tedious and hopeless wanderings, they one 
and all returned indignant and disgusted at the imposition of paid 
agents and rascally speculators ; and they declare, in blunt terms, that 
the idea of its being an agricultural country is a barefaced piece of im 
position, invented by tricky sharks, who are fairly coining money out of 
the necessities of the new comers. These statements have been corro 
borated in the main by Messrs. John Eouson, Biddulph ; Thomas 
Hughes, Geo. Oliver and Henry Morgan, Nissouri, who have just paid 
our sanctum a visit on their way home from Muskoka. Three of these 
gentlemen have themselves travelled through eleven townships, and 
affirm one and the same story. The soil is nearly all sand and rock 



06 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

with an occasional spot of clay, while limestone was found in only one 
small place. The best of the land (a .specimen of which was shown us), 
is a red sort of sand-clay. The water is, for the most part, of the color 
of strong lye, embittered by balsam and pine roots. Throughout these 
eleven townships there were about half-a-dozen loads of wheat raised. 
People who have settled there for seven years past, grow nothing but 
potatoes which are really splendid, and come up in double the profusion 
we see them in Perth or Middlesex. The timber is good, and there is 
a prodigious lumbering business in the prospective. Pine and birch are 
A r ery plentiful, but maple and beech are seldom observed. The residents 
are chiefly emigrants from English cities, who know nothing of farming, 
and are easily victimized by the Government agents and private adven 
turers. It is pitiable to see the shifts they are put to in some cases 
the broken-heartedness visible upon their features, and the utter wretch 
edness of their lives. In many cases the remnants of luxury add a kind 
of ghastly significance to the scene silk dresses, faded and torn the 
ramnants of fine carpets, and other mementoes of an easy and comfort 
able existence among friends in the old country. In short, the narrative 
accords with the exclamation of one of these returned farmers: "It is 
the most desperate country a white man ever set his foot on with a 
notion of settling!" Some of them say they wouldn t take the Avhole of 
Muskoka as a gift, if they had to pay the penalty of living out of its 
soil : and that starvation and rags will haunt the dwellings of settlers as 
long as they exist. Of course, we know nothing of these things from 
our own personal knowledge, but it strikes us that there has been a 
good deal of studied misrepresentation in favor of these lands from time 
to time. Our informants may, in their present state of mind, look at 
the blackest side of the picture ; but it may do good to people to learn 
that it has a black side. We desire to see every part of Canada turned 
to good account, but if a section is fitted only for timber and game, it is 
worse than useless to inveigle farmers into it, in the Quixotic efforts of 
making it an agricultural country." 

The above seems almost too ludicrous to answer, and yet we cannot 
refrain from a word or two of comment. In the first place, we must 
congratulate the Government upon the wisdom they have manifested in 
selecting London as the seat of the Lunatic Asylum, as we have evidence 
before us that at least, 18 or 20 will shortly be fit subjects for admission 
into that great institution, and the expenses of removal will not be great- 



A BLACK PICTURE. 97 

We are not very plentiful of money, but we will give the Editor of the Vid- 
dte twenty dollars for the photographs of those 18 or 20 men who gave 
the " black picture " of Muskoka, that we may submit them to the ex 
amination of Professor Wells of New York, and have them produced in 
the Phrenological Journal, published by that gentleman. We wish that 
the Editor had informed us how many days it took those three gentle 
men to travel through the eleven township spoken of. We have been 
told that they never went oft* the road, and consequently they are inca 
pable of giving an opinion on the subject. We have found that those 
who take time to examine the country, almost invariably form favorable 
impressions ; while on the other hand, those who run in and run out 
again, without taking time to explore the district thoroughly, carry 
away false ideas of the settlement. There is a novelty about the ob 
jections raised by the authors of the " black picture," which is refresh- 
x ng. The water is complained of as being "for the most part, of the 
color of strong lye, embittered by balsam and pine roots," now certainly 
this is something new ; the water has always been praised all who have 
ever visited Muskoka, saving and excepting the authors of the " black 
picture," have admired the clearness, freshness and excellence of the 
Muskoka water. Have they not " let the cat out of the bag T We fear 
they are not all teetotallers, or they would be better judges of pure cold 
water. The Slackest thing in the " black picture," however, is the state 
ment, that " throughout these eleven townships, there were about half- 
a-dozen loads of wheat raised. ; If this had been the first lie they had told 
surely, it would have choked them. They must either be terribly stupid, 
or mightily proficient in lying. Why, the fact is, Bracebridge flour mill 
a mill which would do credit to the flourishing county of Perth is so 
full of grists that they can scarcely turn round in it ; and every day 
farmers are coming streaming in with more. This year there was an un 
usually large quantity under wheat and the yield was good, being from 
twenty to twenty-five bushels to the acre, and so superior has it been in 
quality, that visitors have carried away samples of it, declaring that it 
was better than any they had met with in the front townships. Another 
libel on our district is embodied in the following sentence : " People 
who have settled there for seven years past, grow nothing but potatoes," 
now we do not believe a word of it; if there is such a case in the district 
we are not aware of it, and it is exceptionable. As a rule the settlers 
are progressive and prosperous, and their prospects are bright and cheer 



ing. 



98 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

As another evidence of the utter ignorance of the authors of the 
" black picture," we quote the following :" The residents are chiefly 
emigrants from English cities, who know nothing of farming;" nothing 
could be farther from truth than this. There are sections where the 
English element predominates ; hut instead of them being in the prepon 
derance, the opposite is the case. The nationality as near as can be is as 
follows : One-third Canadian ; one-third Protestant North of Ireland 
people; the remaining third composed of English, Scotch and German. 
The settlers here can smile at the mock sympathy of the authors of the 
" black picture." They have all without exception the necessaries of 
life. Their crops, thank Heaven, were abundant, and prices proved re 
munerative. Labour is in great demand ; working men getting i?l 25 
per day, and carpenters $1 75 to $2 per day. 

In evidence of the general prosperity . of the inhabitants, we might 
just state that not a single application has been made for assistance to 
our municipal authorities. Those wiseacres say "they would not take 
the whole of Muskoka as a gift ;" but who cares for their opinion 1 They 
are not the first who have tried to cry down the country ; others, of 
greater calibre than they can ever expect to be, have spoken and written 
against it ; and yet, despite all the calumny that has been heaped upon 
it, it grows, it prospers, it thrives. It is not a flying visit to Muskoka 
that can enable a man to speak with authority on the subject. A dis 
trict so vast and varied cannot be judged so ; but the opinion of those 
who have lived in the settlement, and grown with its growth, is worth 
something, and those persons are unanimous in the opinion, that then- 
is from 50 to 70 per cent, of the entire district fit for cultivation, while 
even the most rocky parts Avill make good pasture land, and if prosperity 
is a criterion by which we may judge of the merits of the settlement, 
then we say that there cannot be found in the Province of Ontario a 
place giving greater evidence of development and growth than the Dis 
trict of Muskoka, and we venture the opinion that before ten years shall 
elapse, Muskoka shall be recognized as a place of no ordinary importance. 
Here we have natural advantages, aiid water facilities unsurpassed in the 
world. Near ten years ago, the writer was told by those who had not 
grasp of mind to see the inevitable future of this important and now 
rapidly flourishing section, that Muskoka would be deserted ; but what 
is the result 1 it is filling up with a rapidity unequalled in Canadian his 
tory. 



THE BLACK PICTURE. 

Let those fault finders crack the following nut : There is not to our 
knowledge in the District of Muskoka a man disposed to leave it, even 
if money were offered for that purpose. The people, like it, and they 
are happy and contented with their choice ; and those who attempt to 
cry down Muskoka, are not fit to carry drinks to the noble pioneers of 
the North. As to the assertion that " it is the most desperate country 
a white man ever set foot on with a notion of settling," we need only 
state that doctors differ. We have lived in it for near ten years, and 
we like it better every day. It is not a farming country equal to Perth, 
but there is sufficient land fit for cultivation to make a good settlement, 
and a prosperous section. The land is given as a free grant. It is easy 
of access, being within a day s journey of Toronto, and next season a 
railway will be built into the very heart of the Free Grant District, so 
that it has its advantages. And certainly to the admirers of nature 
it is full of attraction. They say " one and all returned indignant and 
disgusted at the imposition of paid agents, and rascally speculators, who 
are fairly coining money out of the necessities of the new comers ;" now 
we are at a loss to know who is meant in this wholesale accusation, un 
less it is designed as a stab at the Crown Lands Agent, the store keepers, 
and hotel keepers of the district. Mr. Lount is the only paid agent in 
the place, and it is the first time we have ever heard him accused of 
trying to induce parties to settle in Muskoka, so the shoe does not fit 
him. As regards our merchants, they stand as high morally and com 
mercially as those in Perth, and are innocent in the matter, while our 
hotel keepers are just like all other hotel keepers, they want to make 
money ; but the authors of the " black picture" cannot but say that the 
fare in Muskoka was both good in quality and plentiful in quantity, 
while the charges Avere as moderate as anywhere ele. In conclusion, 
we trust those 18 or 20 will profit by their trip to Muskoka. If they 
ever go to visit another place, and desire to give publicity to their travels, 
let them learn to do so correctly ; and if Muskoka is so " black" a place 
in their opinion, let them avail themselves of the supposed superior ad 
vantages to be found in Perth, and improve their privileges. We trust 
they will make better farmers and better husbands by their visit to&gt; 
Muskoka. 

THE BLACK PICTURE. 

Some time ago we had occasion to refer to a statement which appeared 
in the St. Mary s Videtle, which gave rise to a great deal of discussion 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

with reference to the Free Grant Lands in the districts of Muskoka ami 
Parry Sound. 

We regret exceedingly at the one-sided course which the Editor of the 
/ iddte has seen fit to pursue in this matter. As far as we know, only 
one paper, the Sarnia Observer, has attempted to coincide with his views, 
whereas the Press of Ontario has almost unanimously vindicated the 
fact that there is a large proportion of laud fit for settlement throughout 
these districts. 

We know not what character those 18 witnesses bear when they are 
at home, but we have been told that they commenced their explorations 
on the Sabbath, and it appears that some of them got on the spree at 
Port Carling, and one of them fired a gun, whereby the lives of the 
peaceable inhabitants were endangered, and came near being arrested. 
They also examined a farm within a mile of this village, lately purchased 
Tjy Mr, John Elliott, of London township, and ran it down, stating that 
it was flat rock and sand ; now we are in a position to prove that such 
is a base libel. We know the farm well, and feel satisfied that it would 
be hard to beat it either in Perth or Middlesex. It contains 213 acres, 
all hard wood, and is entirely free from stone or flat rock, while the soil 
is a rich clay loam that cannot be surpassed in quality. 

With reference to the insinuation of the Viddte, that " the writer of 
the comments in the Globe is probably as ignorant of the district as him. 
.self," we are in a position to state that the Globe is well posted with re 
ference to the settlement, and is not in the habit of making haphazard 
assertions. They sent a reporter here who travelled every inch of the 
ground between Washago and Parry Sound, and that reporter felt the 
responsibility of the task he had undertaken, and faithfully performed 
his part. He examined the farms and products of the country con 
versed freely with the settlers from lot to lot, and after a thorough in 
vestigation, gave a favorable opinion to the world, and if the Editor of 
Vidette will do likewise, he will have cause to write in a different strain 
of Muskoka, which is not only noted for its beautiful scenery, its intelli 
gent inhabitants, but also for the fertility of its soil. With reference to 
the imputation thrown at ourselves, namely, " that it is our business to 
puff our home," and consequently " little dependence can be placed in 
our statements ;" we have just to remark that our business is to state 
.facts, this course we have invariably pursued, and with such weapons we 
have faced much opposition and have always triumphed. We well re- 



THE BLACK PICTURE. 101 

-member the time when Mr. Simpson s letter appeared, and had it not 
been for such misrepresentation, probably we would never have taken 
"the stand Ave took in reference to these settlements; but being thoroughly 
convinced from personal knowledge and close observation, that there 
was a large amount of land fit for agricultural purposes, and satisfied 
from its geographical position and wonderful natural advantages, that be 
fore long Muskoka would become one of the most prosperous parts of 
Ontario, duty prompted us to advocate the settlement of these wild 
lands; and we think that the past success of the settlement if a sufficient 
guarantee to those who shall hereafter settle, that with sobriety, patience 
and industry, success is certain. 

If the question is put, Why do you recommend people to settle in 
Muskoka ? we reply : "We are acquainted with hundreds in these districts 
who have been much improved in their circumstances by settling in our 
midst. Numbers who came here with very small means, and some even 
without means, now own good farms, which are well stocked, and their 
circumstances would compare favorably with those outside. 
The editor of the Viddte, tries to excuse himself thus : 
" All we can say to this is, that if we have printed the truth, it mat 
ters very little to us whether the Premier or any other dignitary suffers 
by the exposure. If we have not done so, we were, at any rate, war 
ranted in publishing the earnestly-expressed opinions of so many respec 
table farmers of this neighbourhood, made after a thorough personal ob 
servation of the country." 

Xow, we state, had the truth been printed, we would not have troubled 
ourselves to reply; but the "Black Picture" is a Hack falsehood, and, 
in justice to the settlers and the settlement, we were obliged to enter 
upon the defence. 

The amount of evidence in favor of what we have written and said 
-about this country is so voluminous, that we find it difficult to make a 
selection. However, for the information of our readers, we give a few 
-extracts, and call attention to the letters of the Rev. John Webster, 
Iieaded "Muskoka calmly considered," which appeared in the two pre 
vious issues of the Advocate, by which it will be seen that in his opinion 
there is from 70 to 75 per cent, of the land fit for cultivation. A great 
-deal of weight must be attached to Mr. Webster s statement. He has 
travelled the length and breadth of the District with a zeal worthy of 



102 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

the great work in which he is engaged, and has had ample opportunities- 
of judging of the country. 

The Globe says, a short time ago a dark picture was given by the St. 
Mary s Vidette of the state and prospects of the Muskoka region. It 
seems some farmers from that neighbourhood had gone on a flying visit,, 
and came back with a most dreadful account of what they saw, heard, 
and tasted. The Northern Advocate takes up the cudgels in favour of the 
maligned region, and point by point meets the representations of the St. 
Mary s visitors, and with a great deal of earnestness repudiates the re 
presentation as a laughable and outrageous caricature. The fact is, the 
* picture" drawn was so black that it carried its own contradiction on 
the very face of it. For instance, it was said that in eleven township* 
" about half a dozen loads of wheat were raised." The Advocate, in re 
ply, says that the Bracebridge flour-mill alone is so beset with teams 
bringing and taking away grists, that one can scarcely turn himself. 
Half a dozen of loads for eleven townships would not justify the erection 
of a flour mill at all. To represent the water of the Muskoka region as 
a villainous compound, like lye, is also exceedingly foolish, and worse,. 
for even the casual visitor can easily know that generally it is exception 
ally good. Muskoka may not be all its most sanguine friends have re 
presented it to be, but it is not the waste, howling wilderness the Mis 
souri farmers have pictured, or anything like it. Other people have 
been there as Avell as the good friends from Perth, and are quite sure 
that the picture drawers must have taken heavy suppers, and had un 
pleasant dreams. 

The Beaverton Expositor says: the editor of the St. Mary s Vidette 
repeats that personally he knows nothing of Muskoka, and then retorts- 
to the refutation of statements contained in his paper, that they were 
the " accounts of intelligent and trustworthy farmers who had paid a 
visit to that region ;" while, he asserts, the writer of the comments in the 
Globe is probably as ignorant of the district as himself, and little 
dependence can be placed on the Advocate, because it is its business to 
puff its home. We do not suppose our confrere lias wilfully maligned 
Muskoka ; and his anxiety to defend his friends is not surprising, though 
the manner in which he does it is. We can assure the Fidette, from 
personal knowledge, that the tale of those "intelligent farmers" is equally 
as incorrect as were the reports circulated through the American press, 
during the civil war, and stated to be vouched for by " an intelligent 
contraband." 



MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. 103 

The Orillia Packet says : 

" At the entrance of the district it has a most forbidding aspect, but 
there are continual signs of improvement as you go farther in. The 
products of the district are usually of the best quality, and the yield 
per acre good. It is not claimed that Muskoka is equal to the older 
parts of the Province, but it is claimed that good land may be obtained 
there, that the climate is healthful, and the water good and pure, though 
generally soft. The settlers are, as a class, possessed of more than 
ordinary intelligence, contented and prospering. They went there for 
the purpose of securing homes for themselves and families, and this they 
are doing in a much larger proportion of instances than is the case in 
most Canadian settlements. ~\Ve are personally acquainted with not a 
few who went there with nothing, and are now in comfortably independ 
ent circumstances, and there are several really wealthy persons in the 
district, who have avoided lumber and Government land speculations. 
In fact, the latter is of comparatively rare occurrence there. 

" The stcry related by the Tide tie has very little foundation in fact 
and we are only surprised our confrere allowed himself to be so grossly 
misled by such an eminently ridiculous story, which carries contradic 
tion on the face of it. The greater part of the studied misrepresentation 
with reference to the District of Muskoka has been the work of the en 
emies of the settlement ; Government agents, there is but one in the Dis 
trict ; and the settlers avoid it well knowing that ultimately the result 
would be adverse to the prosperity of the settlement-" 
The Barrie Ad ranee says . 

" The settlement has a very zealous defender in the editor of the Ad 
vocate. He is himself one of the pioneers of the District ; and as one 
who is in a position to know the facts, and of good repute as to credi 
bility, we prefer taking the picture he draws on the subject, to that of 
the Videttds eighteen witnesses." 

The following appeared in the Northern Advocate on the 6th and 13th 
of January, 1871 : 

MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. 

BY THE REV. JOHN WEBSTER. 

To the Editor oj the Northern Advocate. " 

MR. EDITOR. I wish, through your paper, to place a few thoughts- 
before your readers on this great Muskoka country. The enquiry is fre- 



104- FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSK OKA. 

quently made, " What do you think about Muskoka &gt;" Without no 
ticing those questions separately, my friends will find an answer to them 
in this letter. 

The country is variously described by different individuals, according 
to the stand point from which it is viewed. In my opinion, some place 
their standard far too high, and others far too low. After having spent 
nearly six months in the district, I believe a medium view will be more 
correct, and therefore I shall follow it. 

The country is diversified it is not one great plain, neither is it a 
mountainous country. We have hills and dales, rocks and lands, rivers 
.and lakes in abundance. The scenery is most beautiful. It would be 
hard to surpass in loveliness some of those lakes, nestled as they are in 
-an almost unbroken forest, still with enough of clearance on their shores 
to give them a beautiful, wild, romantic appearance. As you sail on 
those \vaters, and pass silently around numerous rocky islands, covered 
Avitli trees, mostly pine and other evergreen trees, as the balsam, spruce, 
and hemlock; passing now and then an island with one solitary tree 
standing on it, to brave the buffeting of the storm alone, you imagine 
you see some of the scenery described in some fairy tale you have read 
in childhood. But the Christain can, however, turn the whole scenery 
to a better account, as he reads his Bible, and reads of Christ, the "Rock 
of Ages," upon which the soul can anchor and be safe, while the storm 
of life passes over him. Some of the largest island* can be cultivated, 



having excellent soil on them. 



THE ROCK 



Generally rises up suddenly and abruptly ; some places to a great height, 
and then sinks down into the ground to unknown depths. It is no un 
common thing to see wells, within a few feet of a great rock, or surround- 
.ed with rocks, sunk 30 and 40 feet and not touch the rock. They are 
in ridges, generally running from southward to northward, some 
places extending for several miles, and other places only a short distance. 
But those rocky ridges are not nearly as extensive as a strange] would 
imagine, as they are not very wide. There are very few rolling stones 
in the land ; they are only found in a feAv localities. There is very 
little flat rock. We have not much swampy land the rocks of Muskoka 
.seem to take the place of the swamps in the western part of the province. 



MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. 105- 

THE SOIL 

Is generally light, being a sandy loam. In some places you may find 
clay ; but it is the exception, not the rule. The soil however is fertile 
and well adapted to the growth of grass, peas, oats, rye, barley, potatoes,, 
and all kinds of roots, but will never, in my opinion, be a first rate 
wheat country. In some chance places and seasons you might have a 
good crop ; but it won t pay for the farmer to turn his attention to wheat 
raising. Stock raising and dairying is what will pay, and pay well. 
The land being high, dry, and rolling, is admirably adapted for sheep 
grazing. The farmer, who turns his attention to stock raising, as above 
mentioned, will, with the blessing of God, I think, succeed and live as 
comfortably as in almost any other part of Canada. There is, I presume, 
about 70 or 75 per cent, on an average, of land that can be cultivated. 
The timber in the forests is pine, hemlock, maple, beech, birch, and in 
some localities considerable oak. 

The spring and well water can be used for washing purposes as satis 
factorily as rain water. It is not black and brackish, as some have 
stated, only where it is affected by minerals. The water in the Muskoka 
River and Lake is of a darkish color, and in some of the creeks, but the 
water generally is clear and beautiful. On account of its softness it does 
not agree with some people when they first come to the district, but when 
they become used to it the effect it first produced ceases, and they general 
ly like it better than hard water. I will not say that all like the country - T 
but the most of those who settle in it like it very much, and arc happy 
and contented. I would advise any Canadian wishing to " locate land," 
to come first, spend a few days, look around him ; if he can suit himself, 
select his lot, build his shanty, return and fetch his family and move 
them at once to their own homes, and thus save them from a great 
amount of toil, fatigue, and expense. 

THE LAND POLICY. 

Government has made a pretty liberal land policy, and grants 200 
acres to a man having children under 18 years of age, and allows him to 
purchase a third 100 acres for $50. A young man can draw 100 acres r 
and purchase the second for $50. By this free grant system many are 
induced to come out and settle in the district. The Act however needs 
mending, which I hope will take place at the present session of Parlia- 



106 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

ment. I am not going to embark in politics, Mr. Editor, nor find fault 
with the Government, or anyone else ; but, as a Canadian, I understand 
Canadian life ; and now, as I live in the Muskoka District, I know what 
the settlers need, and what would be advantageous and beneficial to 
both the settlers and the Government. I can only name a few, with 
out entering on any particular argument, as I have not room in this 
paper. I shall notice 

1. The restriction on the pine growing on the land being cleared for 
the " settlement duties." While the country should be protected from 
being Stripped by mere speculators, yet the actual settler should not be 
forced either to burn up the pine on the land he clears, or pay the 
Government 75 cents per thousand feet if he sells it. Where a man 
lives a little distance from the water, 75 cents per thousand feet take 
away his profits, and he cannot afford to draw the logs to any market, 
consequently he is forced to burn up the most beautiful and valuable 
pine. He should be allowed to have every stick that grows upon his 
land ; and, while he ought to be restricted and prevented from " strip 
ping" the land of the valuable timber, and not clearing it, yet he should 
be allowed to sell any timber on the land he clears, fences and prepares 
for crops. For the want of this privilege, thousands of dollars worth 
of timber, last summer, was burnt in clearing the land ; which was a 
great loss to the country, and of no benefit to the Government. 

2. The restrictions on mines, minerals, &c., should be taken away, 
and let the owner have all that is. in the ground and rocks, as well as 
what is on them ; and if there is anything valuable in them, let the 
country be developed. If there should be a valuable mine, or mineral 
of any sort discovered, let it be worked, and pay the Government a tax 
aocording to the value received. 

3. Another amendment should be made, to allow those settlers who 
were in the country and drew one hundred acres under the old Act, to 
draw a second, and thus allow those, who bore the toil, burden and hard 
ships of a new country life, to have at least equal privileges with those 
coming now into the District. 

4. Another is, squatters should be allowed to have their land, and 
enjoy their clearings, without having to pay for them. Some of them 
suffered almost everything but death by starvation when they came to 
the District. Small as their shanties and clearings were, they were made 
a great blessing to the other settlers coming into the District. They 



MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. 107 

ought to have their lands as free grants. I hope some member of the 
Government, or some other gentleman of the House, will bring about 
these and several other reforms, which this great new country needs to 



make it what it ought to be. 



THE ROADS. 



The Government lays out large sums of money yearly in building roads; 
by this means much has been done towards the settling of this country and 
giving employment to emigrants. The road from Washago to Graven- 
hurst lies, for the most part of the way, between two great ridges of 
rocks, which give the whole country, to a new comer, a barren and fright 
ful appearance. Many persons who are fearful and tender-hearted, return 
next day, declaring the country is not fit for white men to live in. A 
large amount of money was spent on this road during the past summer, 
in grading, planking, gravelling it, and in building bridges. The lakes 
and rivers are our great highways in the summer season ; consequently, 
off the leading Government roads, the other roads are neglected by the 
settlers, but they must in a few years be opened out. 

EMIGRATION 

Is pouring in rapidly. Mr. Lount, the Crown Land Agent, since May 
last, has located over 100,000 acres of land. The emigrants, both from 
the old countries and Canada, are generally of the right stamp. I never 
saw a better class of people settling in any new country. The majority 
of them are a reading, well educated, industrious people ; many of them 
highly cultivated. With such a class of people, and the blessing of God 
this part of the country is destined to take, in a few years, a prominent 
place in the Dominion of Canada. 

f 

RELIGION 

Is not neglected. There are three Wesleyan ministers, two Primitive 
Methodist ministers, one Churcli of England minister, and Congrega 
tional minister. The Presbyterians were supplied with students from 
their college during the summer season. The Church of England have 
two churches, the Primitive Methodists one church, the Presbyterians 
one church, and there are three small union churches in the District. 

THE PRESS. 

The Globe says : 

We arc glad to notice that the locations in the Free Grant District 



108 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

are increasing in a very gratifying degree. The number of acres taken 
up during the last three years was 239,732, of which 139,233 were so- 
occupied during 1870. The number of adults over 18 years of age who 
settled in that region during the same period Avas 2,021, of whom 1,080 
were during last year. The plan, first suggested we believe by Mr.. 
Donaldson, the Toronto Emigration Agent, of making a small clearance 
on Free Grant lots and building a house, for which the settlers are to- 
pay, is to be tried in a township selected for the purpose. We cannot 
but think that it will be a great boon to many a family. It will enable 
them to bring all their goods and chattels on at once, and allow them to- 
put in more or less of a crop during the first year. We trust that it 
will be found so successful as to be carried forward vigorously as a part 
of the regular business of the Department. 

The Daily Telegraph of December 21, 1870, says : 

THE MUSKOKA DISTRICT. 

In the course of the debate on the Address, several members of the 
Opposition stated that the land in the Muskoka district was unfit for 
cultivation, and that the Government were acting cruelly and deceitfully 
in inducing people to settle in such a rocky wilderness. The charge wa&gt; 
met by members of the Government and others, who informed the 
House that, though there certainly were barren tracts in the district, at 
least 70 per cent, of the )and was fit for cultivation. This statement 
is fully borne out by persons who have visited the Free Grant region ; 
many of them old Canadian farmers in every way capable of forming 
an opinion. It is a fact that many Canadians have gone into the Mus 
koka District from the older settlements of the Province, and are doing^ 
well there. It is also a fact that hundreds of immigrants have taken up 
lots during the last year or two. Now, when we find all those persons- 
remaining in the district, and when we find them contented and satisfied,. 
the country cannot be such a wilderness as some members of the House 
would have the public believe. So far as we know, very few persons 
liave abandoned their lots ; and complaints from settlers are seldom 
heard. They want gravel roads and a railway, in order to give them 
connection with our market ; and were those wants supplied, we believe 
the Muskoka District would rapidly fill up, and would, in the course of 
a few years, become one of the finest settlements in Ontario. 

As the following letter, written by a gentlemen who has visited the 



MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. 109 

Free Grant District, fully meets the assertions of members of the 
Opposition, we give it place in these columns : 

"SiR, Having attended the sittings of the House during the debate 
on the Address, I was much surprised at the reckless manner in which 
lion, members, and notably Mr. Evans, addressed the House in regard to 
the condition of the settlers, and the quality of the land in the Muskoka 
District. He stated that it was not fit for agricultural purposes, and in 
finitely inferior to the prairie lands in the Western States ; that the 
advantages held out by the Government of Ontario were not such as to- 
induce a Canadian farmer to settle in the District ; and that there was 
not a farmer in Upper Canada who would recommend his son to take 
up his residence in Muskoka, with a $500 note to start himself, because 
the Government had power by act of Parliament to take away every 
valuable stick of timber on his land if they saw fit, and no freeman 
would take up land on such terms. Now, Mr. Evans cannot have made 
himself personally acquainted either with the settlement duties required 
by the Act of 1868, or with the Muskoka Territory itself. Having 
travelled in Muskoka last summer, and gone, I may say, through a con 
siderable section of it, I can fully corroborate all the Minister of Agri 
culture stated in his reply ; but I consider that the latter gentleman did 
not go far enough ; that he under rather than over valued the resources 
of the Free Grant District. Having had a great deal of experience of 
land in several parts of Great Britain, and having been out here suffi 
cient time to become acquainted with the capabilities of the Province of 
Ontario for agricultural purposes, a few words comparing the Muskoka 
with others, and enumerating the advantages it holds out to settlers, 
may perhaps be interesting to your readers. I may first premise that I 
never heard one settler complain of his position, but all spoke most 
strongly in favor of the territory, whether they were shipwrights from 
the Thames, farm laborers from Devon or Canadians. The advantages 
of the Muskoka District, which present themselves most prominently to 
my mind, are 

"1. The short distance it is from Toronto, Bracebridge, the centre of 
the Free Grant townships, being nearer to it than London, Canada 
West ; and when the railroad is completed to Gravenhurst, Bracebridge 
will be within six hours of Toronto. 

"2. The easy means of access by railroad and boat, with a break of 

only 14 miles staging over a plank road, for the construction of which. 

7 



110 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

last summer the Government appropriated a large sum of money. When 
the rail runs through to Gravenhurst that staging will be avoided. 

"3. The easy terms on which a head of a family can acquire at least 
200 acres of good agricultural land, viz : to reside for six months in 
each year for five years in his location ; to clear fifteen acres of land 
during that period ; to cultivate at least two acres yearly and to build a 
log-hut of certain dimensions. 

"From a careful examination of the country, I am convinced that 
there is at least 70 per cent, of good agricultural land, and comparing it 
with Northumberland, Westmoreland, Cumberland, and the adjacent 
parts of the counties bordering thereon, I am of opinion that the pre 
ponderance of Muskoka in good land over the named counties is at least 
37 to 40 per cent ; and comparing it also with counties in the south-west 
of England, such as Cornwall, Devon, Dorset, &c., the result in favor of 
Muskoka is as 7 to 5. Of course, in an agricultural point of view it 
does not come up to the midland, eastern and southern shires of Eng 
land, but on the other hand it has advantages of its own which they do 
not possess, such as water privileges, &c. As to the idea that the Free 
Grant District is a mass of rock (though the fact that there is plenty of 
rock there cannot be denied) is all a mistake. Many of the settlers, 
however, prefer a portion of rock, as they consider that the rocks retain 
during the night a large proportion of the heat received from the sun 
during the day, and, consequently the atmosphere is greatly mellowed, 
preventing the frosts in the spring and fall from being greatly injurions. 
The crops that I saw when there promised a good return for the settler s 
labors, and that promise has been fulfilled. I have seen samples of 
cereals grown there quite equal to that produced in the best wheat 
growing townships in Canada. The roads, in consequence of the rock 
in the district, are in capital condition, and can compare most favourably 
with those of much older settled districts. That the climate is not 
severe is proved by the fact that last spring the steamers Avere running 
in Muskoka on the 4th of April, while Lake Simcoe was not open for 
navigation until the 22nd. It is also a mistake that the Free Grant 
District is so far north, nothing of the kind. The parallel of latitude, 
which is the boundary line between the eastern townships and Vermont, 
runs through the Muskoka Lake. In fact, it is in the same latitude as 
Cornwall, Ontario. 

" As to the Government having the right to take the timber as stated 



MUSKOKA CALMLY CONSIDERED. Ill 

by Mr. Evans, it is also a mistake. A settler, if located on a pine lot, 
is allowed to chop thirty acres daring the five years without any license, 
and after the expiration of the five years all the pine on the lot is abso 
lutely his own. If he wishes to chop more than the thirty acres before 
he receives his patent, he must pay the same license as a lumberer would 
have. But, if he is located on a hard-wood lot, there is absolutely no 
restriction whatever, Again, if a man finds that in his lot there are a 
certain number of acres unfit for agicultural cultivation, he has only to 
bring two witnesses who will make the necessary affidavit of the fact, 
and he is entitled to an equal number of acres out of another lot, retain 
ing his own also. In fact, a man has 100 acres of agricultural land 
whether he has only that amount or more. 

" I am so perfectly satisfied with the territory and the capabilities it 
affords of enabling a certain class r to get on, that I have written to the 
old country, advising several parties to come out in the spring, and take 
up locations in Muskoka; and I have every reason to believe that sev 
eral will make up their minds so to do. It is not only a farmer who 
an get on there ; for there is almost a representative of every class of 
persons there. Witness, officers on half pay, jewellers, shipwrights, 
clerks, painters, weavers, lawyers. &c. 

" Apologizing for occupying so much of your valuable space, but the 
conviction that the resources of the Free Grant Territory are not known 
as they ought to be in Canada, must be my excuse. A settler going 
there will find everybody ready to lend him a helping hand, and afford 
him every information. I know instances of men who settled in that 
district four or five years ago with almost nothing, and have now good 
farms, and are happy, contented and prosperous." 

Again, the Telegraph has the following: 

"THE COLONIZATION ROADS 

are doing an immense and plainly perceptible amount cf good in increas 
ing immigration, the Hon. Attorney General has pledged that the Gov_ 
^rnment intend still pursuing a liberal policy with reference to the open 
ing up of this district. Nature has done much in clothing this part of 
the land in beauty, in supplying it with great resources and inducements 
for immigration, and it only remains for the Government to assist in the 
development of the Muskoka district. 

"As an evidence of the increase of immigration to this Province, we 



112 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

have much pleasure in giving the following from the Hamilton Spectator 
of the 21st January, 1871 : 

" IMMIGRATION REPORT. 

"Mr. Carling is not a showy Minister in the debates of the House, but 
there is an unobtrusive enthusiasm in his management of the affairs of 
his Department which has already yielded good fruit, and gives prom 
ise of more. Above all, there is a praiseworthy punctuality in his deal 
ing with the public which we should like to see imitated by the heads 
of departments at Ottawa. The present year is but in the first month 
of its age, and yet we have Mr. Carling s Immigration Report for 1870. 
From our knowledge of what had been done in this Department, we felt 
justified in predicting, some time ago, that the immigration for the past 
year would be greater than it had been in 1869, even though the latter 
year showed a handsome increase over preceding years. We are glad to 
find that we have not been disappointed. The total number of immi 
grants who settled in the Province in 1869, as shown by the reports of 
Hamilton, Toronto, Kingston and Ottawa agencies, was 15,893. In 
1870, the number was 25,290, showing an increase of 9,397. As an evi 
dence of the judicious policy adopted by the Government on this ques 
tion, and as an illustration of the progress we are making, we give the 
immigration returns since 1866 : 

" Number of immigrants settled in Canada in 

1866 10,091 

1867 14,666 

1868 12,765 

1869 18,630 

" These figures, let it be borne in mind, are for the two Provinces of 
Upper and Lower Canada previous to Confederation, and for the whole 
Dominion afterwards. The figures show that the largest number of im 
migrants in any one year was under 19,000, while last year, for the Pro 
vince of Ontario alone, it was over 25,000. It may be said, and no 
doubt will, that more might have been done ; but if the numbers were 
increased a hundred fold that argument would be of equal force, and 
might be urged with as much fairness as it is now. It should be re 
membered that a healthy immigration is one that can be readily absorb 
ed by our industrial system. A greater number than is indicated by 
this test is not desirable in any one year for, of all things, we must 



IMMIGRATION REPORT. 113 

guard against a well-founded discontent among our immigrant popula 
tion. Even a temporary inconvenience in obtaining employment is certain 
to cause such discontent, and it is certain to find its way across the 
ocean, to our future injury. 

" With our ever widening area of settlement, it is very true that incon 
venience and discomfort from want of employment can be but tempor 
ary, and it is equally true that those who are ready to settle upon land 
may come in almost unlimited numbers ; but after all, the great major 
ity of immigrants will be men in want of employment immediately upon 
landing ; the more industrious and energetic of whom will get into bet 
ter positions in the course of time. How nearly the immigration of 
1870 was proportioned to our industrial wants, may be roughly estima 
ted by returns from the municipalities, in answer to Mr. Carling s in 
quiry as to how many they could find employment for. According to 
these returns the number asked for was 22,802. It is very certain, of 
course, that every employer who could find work for a laborer upon his 
farm, a mechanic in his workshop, or a domestic servant in his home, 
did not make a statement of his wants to the Government. This num 
ber, therefore, it may reasonably be inferred, does not mark the limit of 
the country s capacity to give employment, but merely expresses the 
more urgent wants of employers. The number that actually arrived we 
know considerably exceeded this, for Mr. Carling tells us that " in addi 
tion to the number reported from the above (Ontario) agencies, there 
has doubtless been a large accession to the Province of settlers from 
Great Britain and Ireland, who paid their own expenses out, and of 
whom we have no available record as to their numbers." These, he 
thinks, with the arrivals reported at the four agencies, probably sum up 
to a total of not less than 50,000 souls added to our population by immi 
gration for the two years 1869 and 1870. The fact that all these have 
found employment among us without in the least affecting the labor 
market, is a most gratifying proof of the prosperity which the country at 
present enjoys. Each one of them will create employment for others 
who are to follow, and if the change has been a satisfactory one to them 
as we know to be the fact in nineteen cases out of twenty, at least- 
each will become an immigration agent within his own circle of friends 
at " home," co-operating with the other agencies at work, and helping 
us to solve what, after all, is the grand problem for Canada the settle 
ment of the country. 



114 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

" There can be no doubt that when the Government selected Mr. White 
as Emigration Commissioner to England they did an inestimable service 
to thisP rovince. We have heard same carping criticism of the per 
functory and professional kind upon Mr. White s mission : he didn t 
go at the right time of the year ; he didn t stay a sufficient length of 
time, and he didn t go into the agricultural districts with other stuff of 
the same kind. But he did something far more important than all these ; 
he did, in fact, the one thing needful to be done at the time ; he caught 
*he public ear on the emigration question, made it a subject of popular 
discussion, and enlisted in its behalf the efforts of philanthropists, and 
these efforts are now bearing fruit. 

"Encouraged by past success, Mr. Carling proposes to enter upon an 
experimental field. He recommends that a township be set* apart from 
among the back townships of the Free Grant district, containing good 
agricultural lands, and an appropriation made sufficient to enable the 
Government to make a clearance on alternate lots, to the extent of from 
three to five acres, and erect a log house thereon ; these to be given to 
heads of families of good character, with the cost of the Govern 
ment improvements as a first charge upon the land, and to be repaid in 
instalments during the 3rd, 4th and 5th years of settlement. This is 
spoken of as but an experiment, and it is just possible that there may 
be found many practical difficulties in carrying it out ; but it is well 
worth trying, and if it be guided to success its value will be very great." 

The Rev. Dr. Newton writes : 

" I have great faith in the bright future of this country. My duties 
as a clergyman necessitate an extensive and familiar knowledge of the 
people and the District of Eosseau and Nipissing, and I am glad to bear 
witness to much contentment and prosperity among sober and industrious 
settlers. Many who came in with very little, are quietly making com 
fortable homes, and realizing property. And observe the longer they 
live here the better they like the country." 

The publisher has much pleasure in presenting the following letter, 
which he has received from R J. Oliver, Esq., late Crown Lands Agent for 

the District of Muskoka : 

"Sx. Louis, Mo., U. S., 

4 "18th January, 1871. 
"THOMAS McMURRAY, ESQ., 

" DEAR SIR, I have read with interest the Prospectus of your His 
tory of Muskoka, soon to be published in pamphlet form. For some 



THE SETTLER S GREATEST ENEMY. 

time past I have been arranging my notes on the settlement, with the 
view of publishing them, but am very much pleased to be superseded 
by one so well qualified for the work. Your long residence in the set 
tlement, dating from within a few months of its opening to the present 
time, gave you every opportunity for collecting such information as you 
may need, and I know you have not been a sleepy observer of passing 
events. 

"The constant influx of land seekers to my office through your agency, during 
your itinerancy in the Temperance cause, leave testimony to your untiring zeal 
in the welfare of your adopted country, and now that you ^have the press 
at your command, full scope can be given to the genius and power of 
your mind. The information you promise to give is much needed 
abroad. Canada has long been most shamefully misrepresented by in 
terested and competing parties, and a compendium of facts coming di 
rect from the settlers, not bearing the authority of speculative organiza 
tion, will be received without suspicion, and consequently a much 
stronger tide of immigration may be expected to flow into the vast Free 
Grant Districts of Canada. 

" Since my residence in the States, I have made it my special object to 
inquire into the condition of settling on prairie lands, and my conclusion 
is that a person with limited means can make a home on bush land in Canada, 
at half the cost ; with better chances for success, and with much more com 
fort than can be obtained on the bleak tree-less prairies of the Western 
States. I speak advisedly and from personal observation and inquiry. 

"Hoping that your laudable entsrprise may be fully sustained. 

"I am, yours, &c., 

"R J. OLIVER." 

THE SETTLEE S GEEATEST ENEMY. 

I cannot conclude this book without giving a word of warning to those 
who are in the habit of tampering with strong drink. It has been my 
painful duty to record the sad havoc which drink has caused in the set 
tlement since my arrival ; and as I do not wish to be personal, I will 
simply state that not a few farms have been lost on account of intem 
perance. Some of the first settlers, in consequence of it, have been 
obliged to quit the settlement after considerable improvements had been 
made, and not a few deaths have been caused by indulgence in the se 
ductive practice of drinking. It matters not where we turn as in the 



116 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 



city so in the backwoods drink is the common enemy oi man. If I 
should lift the veil, and relate what I have known and witnessed of 
drink s doings in Muskoka, it would fill a volume larger than the present 
one. Drinking is the road to ruin, and we tremble for those who are 
walking thereon. Some that we love and respect are on the very verge 
of the precipice, and sad to relate, they seem ignorant of their danger. 
Stop ! I cry, or your fate, like some who have already perished, will be 
sad and terrible. Drink is alike injurious to both buyer and seller, and 
its victims have been made up of both classes. Many of my friends and 
supporters are engaged in the business, but while I hate the traffic, I en 
tertain no unkind feelings towards the men. My worst wish is that 
they would engage in some other calling, or banish the liquor from the 
bar. 

KAIL WAY TO BRACEBRIDGE. 

The following petition, signed by over one thousand settlers, was pre 
sented to the Ontario Government : 

PETITION 

"To the Honourable the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, in Parliament 
assembled. 

"The petition of the undersigned, settlers of the District of Muskoka, 
humbly sheweth : 

"I. That railroad communication is much required by the settlers, and* 
in order to promote the development of the district, it is an absolute 
necessity : 

" II. That the interests of immigration would be largely promoted by 
an extension of the Toronto, Simcoe, and Muskoka Junction Railway 
through the Free Grant territory : 

" III. That apart from all local considerations, the Province would be 
largely benefited by promoting this scheme, from the fact that there is 
still unoccupied a vast extent of country, capable of affording homes for 
at least 200,000 families, that would quickly become settled by a loyal 
and industrious people if railway facilities were furnished : 

" IV. That said company, having accepted tenders for the construction 
of their road to Washago, your petitioners are of opinion that your hon 
ourable body could not expend a portion of the surplus at present in your 
hands more advantageously than by giving a substantial grant to aid in 
the extension of this line through the heart of the Free Grant district. 

"And your petitioners will, as in duty bound, ever pray, &c." 



RAILWAY BUSINESS. 117 

The Northern Advocate of February 24th, 1871, contains the fol 



lowing : 



"RAILWAY BUSINESS. 



" We call the attention of our readers to the article which appears in 
this issue, headed " EAILWAY TO BRACEBRIDGE," by which it will be 
seen that an arrangement has been entered into to extend the Toron 
to, Simcoe, and Muskoka Junction Eail way right through to Bracebridge. 
The conditions are the best that possibly could be made, namely, the 
Government give $4,000 a mile, the Company $10,000, and the District 
$2,000. On these terms, and on these alone, the Company will extend 
their line from the present terminus (Thomson and Millar s, Eama) 
to Bracebridge ; and, unless these conditions are complied with, the Eoad 
must stop at Thomson and Millar s. 

"The Bonus will be extended over twenty years, and no payment is re 
quired unless as sections of the road are completed. By this arrange 
ment the ratepayers will never feel the tax in fact, they are paying 
more now in extra freightage twice over than will be required of them 
by way of assistance in the construction of the road. Besides, when the 
line is built, the value of property will greatly increase and a vast im 
petus will be given to business, while the wild lands will quickly be 
taken up and general prosperity mark our settlement. 

"Here we have numerous lakes and rivers which would become tribu 
taries to a railway. Our supplies of timber are almost inexhaustible ; 
our mill privileges are unequalled on the continent ; and all we want, to 
make Muskoka one of the most flourishing parts of Ontario, is railroad 
extension. Give us this, and our district will become quickly settled, 
.and capitalists will be induced to come in and develope its resources." 

RAILWAY TO BRACEBRIDGE. 

Eealizing the importance of Eailway communication, the writer has 
taken every opportunity in his power to agitate the matter, and has 
watched closely the discussions which have been going on in reference 
to Government Aid towards assisting to build a Eailway through the 
Free Grant Districts. Fortunately, he was present in the House, when 
the Act to aid in the construction of Eailways was brought forward, and, 
finding that immediate action was necessary, he hurried home and had a 
meeting called Geo. F. Gow, Esq., Eeeve, in the chair at which the 
subject was discussed. 



118 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA. 

A deputation, consisting of Jno. Teviotdale, Robt. E. Perry, and 
Thomas McMurray were appointed to go to Toronto in order to secure 
the extension of the Toronto. Simcoe and Muskoka Junction Railway to 
Bracebridge. 

On Tuesday afternoon, the 14th inst., they left Bracebridge, and the 
next morning they reached Toronto just in time to see the House pro 
rogued. 

An interview was sought with the Attorney- General, and at nine 
o clock the following morning the deputation, accompanied by the Hon. 
Frank Smith, Mr. Fred. Cumberland, M. P. P., Mr. Wm. Lount, M. P. P., 
Mr. A. P. Cockburn, M. P. P., and Mr. Wallis, M. P. P., met at the 
office of the Attorney General, and were received most graciously by 
the Premier. 

Having received the assurance, that $4,000 per mile would be grant 
ed by the Government between Washago and Bracebridge, the Deputa 
tion afterwards met the President of the Board, Mr. Cumberland, Mr. 
Lount, and Mr. Cockburn, at the " Queen s Hotel," when the following 
arrangement was entered into, subject to the endorsation of the different 
Reeves and approval of the ratepayers of the district. 

" TORONTO, 16th February, 1871, 

" MESSRS. TEVIOTDALE, PERRY, 

AND McMuRRAY, Bracebridge. 

"GENTLEMEN. Adverting to your interview with the Attorney Gen 
eral this morning, when you presented a petition from the Muskoka 
District, praying that the Government would recognize the Toronto, 
Simcoe and Muskoka Junction Railway as entitled to Parliamentary aid 
to Bracebridge, under the Act just passed, I understood the Attorney- 
General to say that the Ministry would so recognize that Railway and 
would apply the aid to its construction as far as Bracebridge, so soon 
and whenever the Company was in a position to satisfy the Government 
of its ability to command the remainder of the capital and to construct 
the Road within the period (six years) limited by its Act of Incorpo- 
tion. 

" It is clear, therefore, that if we can establish that ability at once, we 
can at once get Bracebridge declared as the Northern Terminus of the 
Line, and we can secure the setting apart of a grant in aid of say $4,000&lt; 



RAILWAY BUSINESS. 119 

per mile for every mile actually constructed within the Free Grant 
District. 

"We have, as you are aware, surveyed the line of location throughout 
to Bracebridge, and we have before us the estimates of the cost of the 
line to that point. 

"We have made very beneficial arrangements by lease with the North 
ern Railway Company, under which a very important portion of the 
necessary capital is secured ; but at present we are unable to do more 
than secure the means for completing and uniting the line as far as the 
Portage in the Township of Rama, 

" We are nevertheless satisfied that if the Municipalities comprised 
within the District of Muskoka can contribute by bonus say not less 
than an aggregate sum of $50,000, being equal to $2,000 per mile, we 
may be enabled to submit such a scheme for securing the whole capital 
as will induce and justify the Government in passing an immediate 
Order of Council securing the aid to Bracebridge as aforesaid. 

"In the absence of such assurance from the Municipalities, we see no 
prospect or ability for projecting our line beyond the Portage, and we 
shall have (at any rate for the present) to restrict our appeal to the Gov 
ernment for aid in that point. 

"I have, therefore, to inquire whether you are prepared to give to my 
Board of Directors such an assurance of assistance by By-law to the ex 
tent of $50,000 as will warrant them in submitting the whole scheme to 
the Government at once. 

" Should you do so, it will be upon the understanding: 

" 1st. That the By-law shall await the demand of the Company, and 
shall only be submitted to the people when the Company is prepared to 
commence the execution of work. 

" 2nd. That when and so soon as the By-law shall be passed, the de 
bentures of the county shall be placed in trust, only to be issued from 
time to time in proportion to the work actually done between Washago 
and Bracebridge. 

" If you assent to these suggestions, it is our conviction that the an 
nouncement of the fact, that provision has been secured for the construc 
tion of our line to Bracebridge, will give such an impetus to the settle 
ment of your District, as that when (say a year hence) the By-law comes 
to be submitted, the strength of the township will have been so increas- 



120 



FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSKOKA 



ed as to make the burthen of the bonus a very light one. The truth is, 
that your townships are now paying, in extra freight, charges enough to 
cover all the liability upon a debt double in amount to that which (un 
der the wise provisions of the Government) will now suffice to secure you 
Railway connection with Lake Ontario and all the markets. 

" I am, gentlemen, 

" Your obedient servant, 

"FRANK SMITH, 
"Prcs. of T. S. & M. J. Railway." 



TORONTO, 16th February, 1871. 
"THE HON. FRANK SMITH, 

" President, T. S. & M. J. Railway, 
" Toronto. 

" SIR, In reply to your letter of this date, we beg to say that your 
statement as to the result of our interview with the Attorney-General 
is correct. Our interpretation of his reply was to the effect that the 
Government and Legislature did not desire to limit the extension of any 
railways into Free Grant Districts, but would grant aid under the terms 
of the Act to such an extent as the Companies could show their ability to 
construct Avithin the periods named in their charters. 

"We quite recognize the importance, therefore, of your being in a pos 
ition to satisfy the Government of your ability to construct your Rail 
way to Bracebridge, in order that, under the terms of the law, the Gov 
ernment aid may at once be set apart for that purpose. 

""We feel satisfied that if it can be at once announced that the Railway 
to Bracebridge has been recognized by the Government and will be built, 
our townships will settle up with great rapidity, and will be ready and 
willing when called upon to contribute by bonus the amount you require 
to complete your capital, and under the securities you suggest. 

"We accordingly feel warranted in giving you the assurance that, when 
called upon (that is to say, whenever you are ready actually to com 
mence work), our townships will grant an aggregate bonus of $50,000 
in aid of the railway between Washago and Bracebridge, such aid to 
.be contributed from time to time in proportion to the work actually ex- 



RAILWAY BUSINESS. 121 

ecuted between those points that is to say, at the rate of $2,000 per 
mile, or say $10,000 for every section of five miles actually constructed. 
" As we are only acting under subordinate powers, it is our intention 
at the earliest possible moment to call together the Eeeves of the 
respective townships, who, we cannot doubt, will approve and support 
the action we have now taken, and who will themselves officially com 
municate to you the decision at which they may arrive. 

" We are, sir, your obedient servants, 

"JOHN TEVIOTDALE, 

"RoBT. E. PERRY, 

" THOMAS MCMURRAY. " 



MEETING OF THE REEVES OF MUSKOKA. 

In accordance Avith a requisition from the Railway Delegation, the 
Reeves of Muskoka met at the Orange Hall, Bracebridge, on Wednesday,. 
March 1st, 1871. 

On motion of Geo. F. Gow, Esq., Reeve of Macaulay, Mr. McMurray 
was appointed Chairman, and Dr. Bridgland Secretary. 

The Charman on rising gave an account of the interviews which the 
Deputation had had with the Hon. John S. Macdonald and the Hon. Frank 
Smith, President of the T., S. and M. J. Railway, and read the cor 
respondence which had taken place ; after which Messrs. Teviotdale and 
Perry addressed the meeting. After which all the Reeves expressed 
themselves in favour of the scheme, and the following letter was for 
warded to the President of the T., S. and M. J. Railway : 

" BRACEBRIDGE, 1st March, 1871. 
" THE HON. FRANK SMITH, 

"President of the T., S. & M. J. Railway, Toronto. 

"SiR, At a meeting of the Reeves of the District of Muskoka, at 
which all were present, it was moved by A. H. Browning, Esq., Reeve 
of Monck, and seconded by Albert Spring, Esq., Reeve of Draper, and 
carried unanimously : - 



122 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSK OK A. 

" That this meeting fully endorses the action of the Deputation who 
have just returned from Toronto, after having had interviews with the 
Honourable the Attorney-General and the officials of the T., S. andM. J. 
Railway, and return them its thanks for the trouble they have taken 

in the matter. 

" G. F. Gow, 

" Reeve of Macaulay. 

" RoDK. STUART, 

" Reeve of Muskoka. 

" A. SUFFERN, 

" Reeve of Watt. 

" DAVID HOGABOAM, 

" Reeve of Stephenson. 

" A. SPRING, 

" Reeve of Draper. 

" A. H. BROWNING, 

Reeve of Monck. " 



ANNUAL AND SPECIAL MEETING OF THE TORONTO, SIMCOE AND MUS 
KOKA JUNCTION RAILWAY. 

On the first day of March, 1871, the above meeting was held in To 
ronto, and we have much pleasure in submitting the following from the 
report of the Hon. Frank Smith : 

" G. Your directors have continued to exert great efforts to secure the 
prosecution of the works to the Muskoka terminus at Bracebridge ; 
and they are encouraged in the belief that, under the application of the 
recent Railway Subsidy Act, and with the co-operation of the Munici 
palities of the District, there is no practical obstacle to the accomplish 
ment of that object early in 1873." 



COMPLIMENTARY BREAKFAST. 

(From the Northern Advocate of February 17th, 1871). 

"On Tuesday last, it having been ascertained that A. G. P. Dodge, Esq., 
of the extensive lumbering firm of Dodge Co., would visit Brace- 



COMPLIMENTARY BREAKFAST. 123 

bridge, on his way to the Magannetawan, a number of the principal mer 
chants of the place waited upon that gentleman on his arrival and invit 
ed him to a complimentar3 r breakfast at the " Dominion House." A 
large number sat down, the chair being occupied by G. F. Gow, Esq., 
Reeve of Macaulay, and the vice-chair, by E. E. Perry, Esq. After a 
liberal discussion of the good things provided, Mr. Dodge was presented 
with the following address : 

&lt;: EESPECTED SIR, It is with feelings of unmingled pleasure that we 
greet you on the present occasion, in order that we may have the happy 
privilege of extending to you a sincere welcome to Bracebridge, the cen 
tre of your business operations in the District. Nothing affords us greater 
pleasure than to encourage enterprise and promote the development of 
this important and rapidly growing section of country and, satisfied that 
Dodge and enterprise are synonymous terms, and that your operations 
in this place are calculated to promote this great object and promote the 
public weal, we hail with delight your visit. Without any flattery we 
may be allowed to add, that, in addition to the very extensive nature 
of your operations, the highly honorable manner in which it is conduct 
ed has made your name a household word in every home throughout 
the District, and induced us to take this opportunity of testifying our 
esteem. 

"The high position which you occupy, as vice-president of the Toron 
to, Simcoe & Muskoka Junction Railway, is another inducement which 
prompts us to the performance of this duty. Convinced as we are that the 
construction of this line would materially benefit this country, and con 
scious of the deep interest which you have taken in the promotion of 
this scheme, we rejoice to have this opportunity to return you, in the 
name of the settlers, our hearty thanks, with the request that you will 
use your influence to hasten the day when we will be blessed with Rail 
way facilities. Your first address ^at the meeting of officials of the 
Northern Railway, which was held at Parry Sound on the 6th of Sep 
tember last, wherein you remarked, ,1 am no annexationist ; I believe 
in individuality ; I want to see a spirit of emulation between the two 
great nations, and to be for ever united in those two great bonds 
Friendship and Commerce, together with the friendly spirit which you 
liave manifested towards our Queen and country, the noble philanthropic 
utterances which you have made when alluding to our Institutions, anl 



124 FREE GRANT LANDS OF MUSK OK A. 

the great liberality which has shown out in your every act, have en 
deared you to our people. 

" We remain, yours respectfully, 

" GEO. F. Gow, Eeeve. 

" JOHN TEVIOTDALE. 

" EGBERT E. PERRY. 

" THOMAS MYERS. 

" J. W. DILL. 

" H. PORTAS. 

" EICHARD DANIELS. 
" EEV. JOHN WEBSTER, 
" EEV. J. E. GIBSON. 
" JOSEPH COOPER. 
" S. BRIDGLAND, M. D. 
" J. K BYERS, M.D. 
"E. W. MALPAS. 
" H. J. MCDONALD. 
" GEORGE WRAY. 
" WILLIAM HANNA. 

"THOMAS McMtTRRAY. " 
&c. &c. &c. 

" Mr. Dodge, in reply, said, that he hardly knew how to express his 
thanks for the kind reception he had met with. He took a deep inter 
est in the progress of the Free Grant Districts, and was desirous to aid 
in the construction of the Toronto, Simcoe, and Muskoka Junction Eail- 
way. He expressed himself highly pleased with the kindness which had 
been shown him since he came to Canada. At Ottawa and in the back 
woods he had experienced much friendship, and was now beginning to 
feel at home with the Canadian people. He had a high appreciation of 
the merits of the mother country. He recognized that whatever was 
great, good and grand sprung therefrom ; and he anticipated that the 
great Anglo-Saxon race was destined to make rapid strides upon the 
continent. He had not as yet allied himself to any of the political par 
ties in this country. He was carefully observing things, and was resolv 
ed to identify himself with that party which was best calculated to pro 
mote the interests of the people. His highest ambition was to serve the 
settlers, and he was anxious that all his commerce would prove a mutual 
benefit. " 



THE FREE GRANT LANDS 



OF 



SOUND. 



PAREY SOUND. 

About the year 1858, Messrs. J. and W. Gibson erected a saw mill 
on the Seguin River, where the Village of Parry Sound now stands. 
They continued to manufacture lumber until the year 1863, when they 
sold out their interest in said mills unto Messrs. J. and \V. Beatty & Co., 
the present owners. When this change in the proprietorship took place 
very little interest was taken in this section, it being generally considered 
unfit for settlement, and unfit for agricultural purposes ; besides it was 
almost completely isolated, as there was no road, and the only way of 
reaching it was by sail boat. Up till this time no land had been sur 
veyed ; nor had any ventured to locate there. However, when Messrs. 
J. and W. Beatty & Co. took possession, they built a fine steamer called 
the " Waubuno," which made weekly trips to and from CollingAvood, 
thus mail communication was established and means of ingress and 
egress furnished. On the recommendation of Messrs. J. and W. Beatty 
& Co. a road was opened up between Bracebridge and Parry Sound, a 
distance of 55 miles; this, together with the enterprize manifested by 
the Beattys, gave a stimulus to the settlement of the country. It has 
often been asserted that lumberers are opposed to the settlement of the 
country, but in this case it was not so ; instead of their discouraging 
settlement, they did everything in their power to promote it, and the 
result is patent to all, as the district is being rapidly filled by a noble 
class of settlers before whose presence the forest is being rapidly cleared. 
It is gratifying to add that since the district has been explored, it has 
proved more desirable than was at first anticipated, and it is now filling 
up with great rapidity. 
8 



126 FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

The Government of Ontario offers as a Free Grant to any actual set 
tler over 18 years of age, one hundred acres of land in thisJDistrict. 

Heads of families get two hundred acres as a Free Grant. 

Locatees. in addition to obtaining a Free Grant of 100 acres, will be 
allowed to purchase an additional 100 acres, at 50 cents an acre, cash. 

After years of experience and close observation, I give it as my honest 
conviction that a man of limited means, with a large- family of healthy 
children, cannot do better than by taking advantage of the Free Grant 
Lands so generously provided, and settling down in the bush ; for while 
thev have to work hard, they are free from numerous temptations. 

" Here hardy youths soon learn the axe to wield, 
And drive the steers athwart the frosted field ; 
Or pile the firewood on the burdened sleigh, 
Which bears its needful weight the homeward way. 
Here beauteous maidens, household work within 
The homely hut, soon learn to knit and spin 
To beat the churn, or weave the garment warm. 
While sons and fathers face the bickering storm. 
Here mothers nurse the darling babe, and give 
A helping hand, that all within may live 
In peaceful comfort, and delighted see 
The charms of independence yet to be, 
When the fair farm is cleared, and debts discharged. 
And the home comforts more and more enlarged." 

SITUATION. 

The District of Parry Sound is situated on the east shore of the Geor 
gian Bay, and is easily reached in summer by the Northern Railway 
from Toronto to Collingwood, thence ria .steamer "Waubuno" to Parry 
Sound Village, which is the business centre of the District. It is situ 
ated between 80 and 81 west of Greenwich, and between 4-5 and 46 
of north latitude. 

BOUNDARIES. 

The District is bounded on the south by the Territorial District of 
Muskoka ; on the north by French River and Lake Nipissing ; on the 
east by the District of Nipissing ; and on the west by the Georgian Bay. 

EXTENT. 

The District embraces about forty townships, covering an area of 
2,500 square miles ; containing about 1,600,000 acres of land, capable 
of furnishing agricultural homes for at least 100,000 souls. 



CLIMATE. 127 

CLIMATE. 

Some persons imagine that the District must be extremely cold, but 
it is not uncomfortably so. The forest affords much protection, and, 
situated as it is close to a large body of water, the atmosphere is of a 
nice even temperature ; nor will it ever be otherwise, for there are 
ridges of rock running through the country which will prevent it from 
being entirely cleared, so that the District will not be subject to those 
sweeping currents of air which are so frequent in some of the front 
townships, and are so trying upon the constitution of man. The climate 
is exceedingly healthy, and, unless in cases of accident, the services of 
the doctor are seldom required. 

Ague is unknown here, and the District is acknowledged to be one of 
the most healthy in the world. 

Persons who are consumptive will derive much benefit, and, if not too 
far gone, will be perfectly cured by a short residence in the place, 
numbers in the settlement can cheerfully bear testimony to this fact. 
Here you have complete summer and perfect winter, and enjoy an at 
mosphere both pure and bracing, which is conducive to the most perfect 
health. 

AS STATED IN THE IMMIGRATION PAMPHLET. 

" No where on earth do the seasons of the year move on in lovelier,, 
grander procession. In spring, we have a quick awakening of vegetable 
life, and nature puts on her best attire, promptly as a bride on her wed 
ding-morn. Our summer is short, but gorgeous with splendour, and 
bedecked with flowers that can hardly be surpassed ; we have oppressive 
heat at times, and occasionally drought, but how do our summer showers 
refresh the face of all things ; how welcome is the rain, and how green 
and beautiful are the fields, the gardens, and the woods, when it falls. 
In autumn we have the waving fields of grain and tasselled corn ; our 
orchards display apples of gold in baskets of silvery verdure, and we can 
reckon even the grape among our fruits ; our forests present a richly- 
tinted and many-coloured foliage : we have mid-October days in which 
the weather is superb ; our Indian summer is a splendid valedictory to 
the season of growth and harvest ; a bright and beautiful hectic flush 
sits upon the face of universal nature as death draws on and we glide 
imperceptibly into winter. This, though confessedly severe, is exhilar- 



128 FREE GRANT LANDS &gt;F PARRY SOUND. 

-ating, hardening animal as well as vegetable fibre, while it has its 
ameliorations and joys in the fire-side warmth that tempers into geniality 
the clear, frosty air ; we have also the merry jingle and fleet gliding of 
the sleigh, and the skater s healthful sport, together with almost entire 
exemption from damp and mud, two most disagreeable accompaniments 
of winter in milder climes. The characteristics of this country are only 
beginning to be known abroad, as its resources are only beginning to be 
developed at home. It offers inducements rarely surpassed to industrious, 
energetic, prudent settlers. Let it only be thickly settled with a popu 
lation worthy of it, and it will take no mean rank among the countries 
of the earth. Sunnier climes there may be, but a fitter habitation for 
the development of a manly, vigorous race, it wonld be difficult to find 
in any part of the world." 

THE SOIL, 

There are some large flats of clay, but the soil is chiefly of a loamy 
nature, easily worked and admirably adapted to the climate. 

As to the precise, quantity fit for cultivation in this District, it is im 
possible to say, but having personally examined the land and being in a 
position to give a tolerably accurate opinion on the subject, the writer 
considers that he is under rather than over the mark, when he states 
that there is at least 70 per cent of land fit for agricultural purposes, in 
the District, besides, it must be remembered that even the rocky parts 
will make excellent pasture, and for stock raising is very valuable. 

There is a tract of excellent land called the " Oak flats," around 
Manatawaba lake, 12 miles north of Parry Sound village, which is 
worthy of attention. Already several settleis have located themselves 
.there, the laod is of very superior quality, and the scenery cannot be 
surpassed in beauty. 

The land generally, is rolling, and there is very little swamp. 

Stock farming would pay here as cattle thrive Avell and grass seed 
and clover grow luxuriantly, even where there is little depth of soil. 

WHAT KIND OF TIMBER? 

This question is often asked by those who want land, and so much 
importance is attached to it, that many persons judge of the nature 
of the soil by the timber that grows thereon. There is great variety 
however in this respect, the ridges of rock are chiefly covered with pine, 



SCENERY, CROPS. 129" 

and some with oak ; the valleys of good land between the ridges are 
principally covered with hardwood. Maple abounds ; elm, basswood, 
beech and ironwood are plentiful, with some balsam, hemlock and 
scattered pine. 

There is considerable white oak around Manatawaba Lake in the 

Township of McKellar. 

SCENERY. 

The scenery is the most picturesque imaginable, the lakes are dotted 
with innumerable islands, and for beauty and variety cannot be excelled 
in the Province. 

CHOPS. 

During the past year the crops have been most productive; the settlers 
have been cheered as well as amply rewarded for their laborious toil. 

WHEAT, 

The staple of Canada, has been raised here with success ; but it must 
be remarked that in a new country where the clearances are small, this 
article does not get a fair trial. 

OATS 

Are a good crop both as regards quality and quantity. On account of 
the extensive lumbering operations that are carried on, oats are in great 
demand at high prices. The writer has seen a ten-acre field of as good 
oats raised here as he ever met with in the " old country." 

PEAS 
Keturn a very large yield, and prove a profitable crop to the farmer. 

INDIAN CORN 

t 

Has been cultivated to advantage, although it is not so sure a crop. 
The Indians have grown it for years, and we have seen some fields per 
fectly matured ; the success, however, is greatly owing to the season. 

BARLEY AND FALL RYE 

Have been tried to profit ; the latter has been very remunerative, and 
is a favorite crop with the settlers. 

ROOT CROPS. 
These grow to perfection in this District. It is admitted that pota- 



130 FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

toes do best on new soil, and it is astonishing the large yield of roots 
that may be obtained when properly seen after. 

On account of the elevation, and close proximity to the Lake, there is 
consequently more moisture here in summer than in some older town 
ships, the beneficial effects of which are realized by the settlers, for of 
ten they enjoy the most delightful growing weather when farmers out 
side are suffering from drought. 

FRUIT, 

So far as it has been tried, has proved successful. Currants and goose 
berries grow to perfection; strawberries, of the choicest quality, have 
been raised, and grapes bid fair for profitable cultivation. 

EOADS. 

Two leading Colonization Roads branch out from the Village of Par 
ry Sound : " The North Shore Road," going in a northerly direction 
towards Sault Ste. Marie; twenty-five miles of this road are already com 
pleted, and it will be built as far as the Magannetewan river during th&lt;&gt;, 
present year. " The Parry Sound Road " takes an easterly course 
through the Muskoka District. 

Another road called "the Nipissing Road," branches off this one at 
Rosseau Junction, twenty-two miles east of Parry Sound village, and 
runs in a northerly direction towards Lake Nipissing. At a point on 
this road, some twenty-five miles north of the Junction, a cross road is 
being constructed, running west through the townships of Spence and 
McKellar, until it intersects the "North Shore Road," near Arm 
strong s Rapids, sixteen miles north of the Village of Parry Sound, 
where a Post office has been established. 

PARRY [SOUND. 

This village is beautifully situated on an inlet of the Georgian Bay, 
and can boast of one of the best harbours to be found on the North 
Shore. Messrs. J. and W. Beatty & Co., the spirited proprietors, have 
exhibited great taste in laying out the streets, and ornamenting the 
same with shade trees. From the top of Belvidere you command a 
delightful view of the bay, dotted with numerous islands ; and we may 
truly say that " Parry Sound, as a summer retreat, can rarely be beat," 
for the beauty of its scenery, the healthfulness of its climate, and the 
sport which it affords, will make it always attractive to the admirers of 



VILLAGE OF PARRY SOUND. 131 

nature. A year ago the District of Parry Sound, was formed into a ter 
ritorial district, for the more ready and convenient administration of 
justice, and for the registration of deeds and instruments relating to 
lands of the Province. Consequently a court house is being erected, 
with registry office and jail, and Mr. J. W. Rose has been appointed 
stipendiary magistrate. There is a large wholesale and retail store kept 
by Messrs. J. and W. Beatty & Co. A magnificent saw-mill and grist 
mill, owned by the same company ; a temperance hotel, boarding house, 
bakery, butcher s-shop, tinware and stove depot, and drug store, black 
smith shop, post and money order office, school, public library, Wsley- 
an. Church, with resident "VYesleyan minister, Church of England min 
ister, and Presbyterian missionary. 

At Parry Sound the religious interests of the inhabitants have been 
well looked after by the spirited proprietors of the place, Messrs. J. and 
W. Beatty & Co. Here the Wesleyans have a neat church, and preach 
ing twice every Sabbath, together with a prosperous Sabbath School, 
with Mr. Wm. Beatty, M.P.P., for the superintendent. The Episcopal 
Church and the Canada Presbyterians have each a missionary stationed 
at this point. 

The following is from the Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Report : 

"In presenting the first Annual Report of the Parry Sound Mission, we 
desire to record our gratitude to Almighty God, first, for the opening 
of so wide a door for the triumphs of the Gospel; and, secondly, for the 
power He has given His Church to enter and present with success the 
great truths of salvation. 

"Five years ago Parry Sound was known only as the hunting ground of 
the Indians ; it is now a thriving village in the very heart of the Free 
Grant Districts. Immediately after the selection of this place by the 
Messrs. J. & W. Beatty (worthy Wesleyans), for the location of their 
large; lumbering establishments, a tide of immigration at once set in, 
and for the accommodation of their workmen, and the incoming settlers, 
as also for the establishing of our beloved Methodism, Mr. Wm. Beatty, 
the resident partner, erected forthwith, at his own expense, a neat and 
commodious Wesleyan Methodist Church, deeded it to the conference, 
free and unincumbered, and for four years, with the assistance of one 
or two other brethren, he has conducted public religious service twice 
every Sabbath, led a class meeting at the close of the morning service," 
and superintended a flourishing Sabbath school in the afternoon, and re- 



132 FREE GBANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

gularly sustained also a week-night prayer-meeting; thus from the first,, 
all the means of grace peculiar to our Church have been established and 
conducted with vigor and success. At the last Conferense, however, the 
work having grown to such dimensions, it Avas found impossible any 
longer to carry it on efficiently without the appointment of an ordained 
minister ; accordingly application was made to the Missionary Committee, 
and the request was granted; and in the Minutes of 1869, Parry 
Sound appears for the first time as a regular Conference appointment. 
During the year, five outside appointments have been established, be 
sides occasional preaching through the settlement. Wherever practica 
ble, societies have been formed, and the entire work placed on aconnex- 
ional basis. At one of these preaching places a log Church, respectable 
and neat, has already been built, and arrangements have been made for 
the* speedy erection of two more in other parts of the circuit. With 
characterized promptness, the Quarterly Board have also undertaken to 
provide a large and comfortable parsonage for their minister. The- 
building has been commenced, and with the blessing of God upon tin 
work, will ready for occupancy by about the middle of August. 

"C. A. HANSON." 



The residents of the District are noted for their intelligence arid high 
moral character, and represent most of the religious denominations and 4 
different nationalities. 

MANUFACTURING FACILITIES. 

Water privileges are numerous both in the Village of Parry Sound 
and throughout the District. There is a splendid opening in the village 
for a foundry. Stoves, ploughs, and farm implements are in great de 
mand, and the raw material can be laid down here as cheap as in the 
city of Toronto. Wood, suitable for furniture, is plentiful, and a fac 
tory would be remunerative. 

NEW TERRITORIAL DISTRICT. 

At the last session of the Provincial Parliament, an Act Avas passed to 

provide for the organization of the Territorial District of Parry Sound, 

and for the more ready and convenient administration of justice, for the 

registration of deeds and instruments relating to lands in that part of 

tliis Province, which will be a great convenience to the settlers. This 



WHO WILL SUCCEED, ETC. 133- 

Act furnishes many of the advantages of an independent provisional 
county, giving both judicial and registration facilities within the Dis 
trict. 

Persons arriving in the District now have many advantages over the 
first settlers. Everything that is required by those settling down on 
bush farms can be obtained on the most reasonable terms at the village 
of Parry Sound. Hence parties unacquainted with the requirements of 
the country will do well to reserve their funds until they fix upon a lo 
cation, and learn what articles are absolutely wanted, before making 
their purchases. 

WHO WILL SUCCEED ? 

Men who have been accustomed to labor. Say, those persons who- 
have lived on rented farms in the old country and who possess sufficient 
means to carry them through until they are able to raise crops capable- 
of supporting their families such men are certain to succeed. A strong 
hardy class of men possessing courage and perseverance, with constitu 
tions capable of endurance, assisted by a little means, are sure to get 
along well in this country, and in a few years to become independent. 

The man Avho comes to take up wild land, having no means to start 
with, has a poor chance. A married man cannot expect to succeed un 
less he possess at least two hundred dollars at the commencement. 

Of course such persons may hire out and get employment at the 
lumber shanties or on the Eoads, but, while doinu~ so their farms will 

* * O 

be neglected. 

Some persons have entered the settlement without means and have 
succeeded well, but at the first they experienced many hardships. 

ADVICE TO NEW COMERS. 

The new settler on his arrival in the District, should make a thorough 
examination of the land before locating himself. There is abundance 
to select from, and if you do not get a good lot it is your own fault. 
See that you make a wise choice. Eemember it is for life, and your 
success, or otherwise, to a great extent depends upon the wisdom of this 
initiatory step. 

FISHING. 

The Angler can satiate his passion for this innocent sport by follow- 



134 FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUM.i. 

ing his amusement at some of the numerous Lakes and Elvers through 
out this District, which are now noted for the exuberance of speckled 
trout and other specimens of the finny tribe with which they abound. 

TOWNSHIP OF McKELLAE. 

The Township of McKellar abounds with the purest limestone, and is 
pronounced one of the best that has yet been surveyed in this whole 
northern section. I have conversed with parties who have explored 
the entire country from Parry Sound to Lake Nipissing, and they all 
confirm what I have before asserted, that there is about seventy per 
cent, of good land in the District. It is important that new townships 
be at once surveyed, and thrown open to settlers. Already numbers 
have squatted down upon the unsurveyed lands in Hagermau and else 
where. One very pleasing feature in connection with this District is the 
superior manner in which the roads have been made. The bridges are 
very substantial, and are" protected by side railings ; while the crossways 
and bridges are two feet wider than in most places. This, I am told, is 
entirely Jue to Mr. Wm. Beatty, M.P.P., who had the roads built in this 
improved way. I cannot conclude without stating that I was much im 
pressed with the character of the inhabitants of Parry Sound and sur 
rounding country. They are orderly, industrious and intelligent ; they 
are respectable in their appearance, tasteful in their dress ; their houses 
.are clean, and their gardens would be a credit to any city in. the Pro 
vince. Flowers and vegetables flourish here most luxuriantly, in pro 
ducing these articles, while both the climate, the soil, and the situation 
seem most favourable to their culture. I partook of some of the largest 
and best gooseberries I have seen since I left Auld Scotia. 

The Globe of the 22nd September, 18G9, contains the following: 
" It may not be out of place to draw these notes to a conclusion with 
a word or two about the inhabitants of Muskoka and Parry Sound, and 
the land they live in. The most striking characteristic of these people 
is the remarkable spirit of contentment which generally prevails among 
them, and the readiness and vigor with which they repudiate any in 
sinuations against their District. We came into contact with hundreds 
of them, and there was not one of them that did not stand up for Mus 
koka as energetically as an Irishman or an Englishman would maintain 
.the glory of ould Ireland or merry England/ 



EXCURSION OF RAILWAY OFFICIALS TO MUSKOKA. 135 

A REMINISCENCE. 

Deputation of Officials of the Northern Railway of Canada to Muskoka and 

Parry Sound. 

In response to the invitation given, a short time since, by the Reeve 
of Muskoka to the Managing Director of the above road, a large and 
influential deputation of the officials of the X. R. Co., with other promi 
nent men, arrived on the evening of the 6th Sept., 1869, by the steamer 
" Wenonah," at Bracebridge the business centre of the Muskoka District. 
Although the weather was unfavourable, the attendance was large and 
respectable. The Reeves and leading men turned out well, and evinced 
a deep interest in railway extension. 

The party consisted of the Hon. J. B. Robinson, Presidant ; F. 
Cumberland, M.P.P., Managing Director ; Mayor S. B. Harman ; Alder 
man Baxter ; Alderman Dickey ; D. Crawford, Esq. ; C. W. Moberly, 
Chief Engineer; Hon. Col. Grey, M.P., New Brunswick; A. P. Dodge* 
Esq., New York ; R. J. Reekie, Esq., Montreal; Capt. May, Bell Ewart; 
the Toronto press was also ably represented. 

On the 7th a public dinner was given to the deputation at Graven- 
hurst, at which A. J. Alport, Esq., J. P., Reeve of Muskoka, presided. 
It was got up in excellent style, and reflected great credit upon the 
spirited proprietor, Mr. B. Fuller. A public meeting was also held, 
when able and interesting speeches were delivered by the President, 
Managing Director, Col. Grey and others. The remarks made indicated 
a willingness on the part of the Company to deal liberally with th e 
people of these new districts, and if the settlers will only do their part, 
the Northern Railway Company will meet them as far as possible in 
these matters. 

On the 8th the party left the Village of Gravenhurst by steamer 
" Wenonah," and proceeded to the Indian Village at Port Carling. 
After a sail on Joseph River, they partook of luncheon on one of the 
beautiful islands, after which they started in the steamer "Wabamik" 
to Nipissing Junction at the head of Lake Rosseau, where they arrived 
safe and sound after many adventures by the way, and found a home 
for the night at Mr. Irwin s Hotel, where the host and hostess gave them 
every attention. Here they were met by Mr. William Beatty, M.P.P. A 
very pleasant night was spent, and it is due to Alderman Baxter to state 
that he contributed greatly to the hilarity of the occasion. 



130 FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

On the morning of the 9th the party left in four conveyances, which 
liad been provided by Mr. Beatty, and proceeded to Parry Sound. The 
weather was all that could be desired. The sun shone brightly adorned 
the face of nature, and at 4 o clock in the afternoon they arrived, and 
were greeted with a hearty welcome by the inhabitants, who took quite 
an interest in the reception. The Village looked quite gay, with flags 
flying at the custom house, post office, mill, hotel and other places, while 
the steamers and sailing vessels in port vied with each other as to which 
would make the grandest show. The steam pleasure yacht "Mittie 
Grew," owned by A. J. P. Dodge, Esq., was tastefully decorated with 
flags and streamers representing the different nations. The stars and 
stripes waving in the breeze side by side with the glorious old union jack. 
The "Wave," owned by Messrs. J. and W. Beatty & Co., Avas also in 
gala attire, having been furnished with a complete set of new flags for 
the occasion. 

After luncheon at the Seguin House, the party were shown the 
principal places of interest in the village, among which were the Mills, 
printing establishment of the Northern Advocate, Belvidere and the Camp 
Ground. Teams were then in readiness, and the party had a pleasant 
drive up the North Shore Eoad, where they had a delightful view 
of Mill Lake, and the Cascades on the Seguin Eiver. On their return, 
dinner was announced, to which the party with others sat down, and 
partook of one of the best dinners that could be provided in Ontario. 
The bill of fare was sumptuous, and the table elegantly decked with 
"beautiful flowers. Great praise is due to Mr. and Mrs. Blair, of the 
Seguin House, for the manner in which dinner was served up, both as 
regards the variety brought forward and the style in which everything 
was prepared. Mr. Wm. Beatty, M.P.P., filled the chair with his usual 
ability, and all went merry as a marriage bell. After ample justice 
had been done to the good things so liberally provided, a beautiful sup 
ply of pure cold water was freely furnished, and the Chairman rose and 
said, " gentlemen, fill your glasses ;" he then gave the first toast, "The 
Queen and all the members of the Royal Family," which was drank 
with all honors. Song " God save the Queen," led by Alderman 
Baxter. 

" The Governor and Lieut. Governors of the Dominion," came next, 
and was drank with enthusiasm. 



EXCURSION OF RAILWAY OFFICIALS TO MUSKOKA. 137 

The third tost was " The Army and Navy," to which Aldermen Bax 
ter and Dickey, replied. 

A good deal of merriment was caused by the skirmishing of those two 
gentlemen, and for once we fear, the former got slightly wounded. 

"The Dominion Parliament," was responded to by Col. Grey, M. P., 
of New Brunswick, in a very able and racy speech, he said he came to 
-examine the country and to make the acquaintance of the Canadian peo 
ple, and being a member of the Dominion Parliament, he considered it 
nothing more than his duty to do so. He expressed that he had been 
most agreeably surprised ; that the country was much better than he ex 
pected, and he considered it capable of great fertility ; as regards the 
roads, he thought that the less he said about them the better. 

The Colonel anticipates great things for Parry Sound, and expects 
that it will become a town of importance before ten years. 

" The Local Legislature," was replied to in a very neat and eloquent 
address by the efficient Managing Director of the Northern Railway, F. 
Cumberland, Esq., M. P. P. 

" The Mayor and Corporation of the City of Toronto," was the next 
given, and heartily responded to by S. B. Harman, Mayor, who, in re 
plying, stated that the scenery through which he passed was most ro 
mantic, the lakes and rivers extremely beautiful, and that pleasantry 
and good humour had characterized the whole trip. 

He spoke strongly in favor of Railway extensions, and his address 
was graceful and practical. The mayor has made many friends by this 
trip. We congratulate the City of Toronto on having so popular a re 
presentative. 

" Success to the Northern Railway." The Hon. Jno. B. Robinson 
replied in a practical speech, noted for the strong, good common sense 
views which he expressed, and the information which he conveyed. 

" North Shore Development." A. G. P. Dodge, Esq., replied to this 
toast in a speech which gave evidence of high moral training, ad 
vanced mental culture and deep research. His allusions to the " Pil 
grim Fathers" was most touching. His statements that the North 
Shore of the Georgian Bay is rich in iron ore and other minerals, is 
valuable, and the development of this North Territory is only a matter 
of time. Although Mr. Dodge is an American, and the son of the dis 
tinguished American Philanthropist, the Hon. W. E. Dodge, of New 
York, yet he is no annexationist, hear him, " I am no annexationist, 



13N FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARKY SOUND. 

I believe in individuality, I want to see a spirit of emulation between 
the two great nations, and to be ever united in those two great bonds, 
Friendship and Commerce." 

P. S. Gibson. Esq., P.L.S., of Willowdale being present, was called 
upon by the chairman to make a few remarks, and we consider that his 
address was one of the ablest that was delivered during the evening, his 
remarks were practical and pointed. In alluding to the roads he said 
that we were not to be looked upon as beggars when we asked fora 
grant of money to build and repair roads ; that we only asked back a 
part of what the Government had already received for the timber which; 
they had sold. He also advocated the opening up of cross roads in ad 
dition to main leading roads. 

" The Press,"- -This toast was replied to by Mr. Cunningham, of the 
Globe who will give his views upon the country in letters which will ap 
pear in that paper to which we intend to refer on some future occasion. 
The Editor of the Northern Advocate also replied, giving a short history 
of the Muskoka District, and in the name of the people, gave the gu&lt; sts 
to understand that should they see fit to return again we would give 
them a hearty welcome, and try to keep the friendship that had been 
formed, as pure as the clear water in which it had been drank. 

The last toast, " Success to the firm of Messrs. J. and W. Beatty & 
Co.," Avas proposed by the Mayor of Toronto. Mr. W. Beatty, M.P.P., 
rose, and, in a very feeling and eloquent address, thanked the gentle 
men present for the hearty way in which the toast had been responded 
to. He said that some of the happiest years of his life had been spent 
in the Sound ; that he loved to mark the progress that was going on in 
a new settlement ; that much of the praise that had been ascribed to 
him ras due to the Northern Eailway Company ; that only for it he 
would not have invested here. 

After " Auld Lang Syne" and "God Save the Queen" were sung, the 
company broke up, at the wee hour beyond the twelve. In referring to 
the bad state of the roads, several of the speakers expressed their deep 
regret that the Hon. S. Richards, Commissioner of Crown Lands, was 
not with them. 

On the morning of the 10th, the party went out in the steamers " Mit- 
tie Grew" and "Wave" for a delightful sail among the islands of the 
bay. The sky was clear, and the reflection most perfect, and all enjoy 
ed the trip amazingly. Tne steamer "Waubuno" having arrived, the 



THE ROUTE, BYNG INLET, M DOUGALL. 139 

party went oft to Byng Inlet. As the steamer left the wharf, three 
hearty cheers were given to the deputation as they moved out of sight. 

THE EOUTE. 

Parties wishing to settle on the Free Grants in the Parry Sound ter 
ritory, may proceed by either of the following routes : 

1st. From Toronto to Barrie or Bell E wart by the Northern Railway ; 
from thence to the Eiver Severn by steamer ; from the River Severn to 
Gravenhurst, on Lake Muskoka, by stage ; from Gravenhurst to Brace- 
bridge by steamer, or by the Muskoka Road ; and from Bracebridge to 
the respective townships by the Muskoka, Peterson and Parry Sound 
Roads. In winter the communication with Bracebridge and Parry Souud 
is by stage from Barrie. A company is now formed to construct a rail 
way to connect with the Northern, from Barrie to the Muskoka District. 
The office of C. "YV. Lount, Esq., Crown Lands Agent for the Townships 
of Watt, Stephenson, Brunei, Macaulay, McLean, Muskoka and Draper, 
is at Bracebridge in the Township of Macaulay. 

2nd. To Collingwood from Toronto by the Northern Railway ; from 
Collingwood to Parry Sound by steamer, once a week, every Saturday 
morning, during the summer months ; and from Parry Sound to the 
respective townships by the Great Northern, Parry Sound, and Nipissing 
Colonization Roads. A stage runs from Parry Sound to Lake Rosseau, 
connecting with the steamer. The office of John D. Beatty, Esq., Crown 
Lands Agent for the Townships of McDougall, Foley, Humphrey and 
Cardwell, is at Parry Sound. 

BYNG INLET, 

The seat of the extensive lumbering operations of Messrs. Dodge & Co., 
and Messrs. Clarke, White & Co., is situated on the Maganetawa 
River. A very large amount of capital has been expended here, and 
considerable improvements have been made of a very substantial nature. 
The following extracts from the Surveyor s Reports will give the 
reader a good idea of the district. 



McDOUGALL. 

Is situated in the county of Simcoe. It is bounded on the north by 
unsurveyed territory, on the east by unsurveyed territory, on the south 
by the township of Foley, and on the west by the Georgian Bay. 



140 FKEE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

This township contains an area of about 70,000 acres, of which 
43,864 acres (water and roads included) were subdivided in 1866, by 
Provincial Land Surveyor, J. L. P. O Haiily. 

The following is an extract from Mr. O Hanly s report of survey : 

"This township has considerable diversity of surface and soil. The 
surface is generally flat, having few elevations 100 feet above the level 
of Georgian Bay. Y.et it is much broken both by hills and lakes. The 
hills for the most part are abrupt and precipitous, falling and rising by 
steps like a terrace, gradual slopes being rare. The land in many places 
is of the worst kind, being almost destitute of mould or verdure, while 
in other parts it is well adapted for settlement. 

" On the accompanying trace I by different colors, in a general way 
indicated the land fit for settlement, as well as the bad land. Not 
that I would be understood to mean that no part of that shewn bad is 
fit for settlement. I have no doubt but small patches here and there 
Avill be found intermixed Avith it of a very fair quality, and so of the 
other, as some spots will be found in it very inferior. But for a general 
and comprehensive classification I think it may be relied on as pretty 
accurate, indeed as correct as it is possible to do it without a special in 
spection. 

" The timber consists of birch, maple, pine, hemlock, beech, balsam, 
ironAVOod, oak, cedar, bassAvood, spruce, tamarac, ash, elm, poplar and 
birch. This is the order of predominancy. There is a great deal of 
Avhite pine, but much scattered and therefore very difficult to fix its 
limits, except along the valleys of streams and the margins of lakes, and 
Parry Sound. Along the latter there is much of inferior quality and 
stunted growth. It is nowhere to be met Avith in groves, and not often 
in clumps, yet there is scarcely a spot without it ; and the country, 
viewed at a distance, Avould be probably considered as a vast pinery. 
Red pine is entirely unknown. 

FOLEY 

Is situated in the County of Simcoe. It is bounded on the north by 
the Township of McDougall, on the east, south and west by unsurveyed 
land, the north-Avest corner of the township touching on Parry Sound. 
It Avas surveyed in 1866 by Provincial Land Surveyor George A. 
Stewart, and contains an ami of 42,497 acres, including water and 
roads. 



PHYSICAL FEATURES OF THE COUNTRY. 

The following is an extract from Mr. Stewart s report of survey: 
" The Parry Sound Colonization Road passes diagonally through the 
township from south-east to north-west, thus facilitating in the best 
possible manner the settlement of the township. This road, through 
Foley, is of a very superior quality, and will compare most favourably 
with any of the colonization roads with which I am acquainted, and 
reflects great credit on the parties employed in its construction. 

PHYSICAL FEATURES OF THE COUNTRY. 

"A large proportion of this township is occupied by water, a char 
acteristic common to this portion of the Province. The lakes through 
out this township are generally very irregular in outline, presenting bold 
rocky shores and great depth of water. An examination of the map 
will shew the position and extent of these lakes. It will be observed 
that towards the western part of the township they become more 
numerous and irregular as we approach the Georgian Bay. These lakes 
present scenery of singular beauty and variety, and possess many attrac 
tions to the sportsman and tourist. 

" The hills throughout the township are generally rugged and rocky, 
presenting in some cases impassable barriers. 

" The rivers are of small dimensions, connecting the several lakes. 
The principal river, after passing through several lakes, continues its 
course westerly along the tenth concession, and empties into Parry 
Sound near the western boundary of the township. It has several falls 
in its course which might be made available for manufacturing purposes. 
The position of these falls is indicated on the plan and field notes. 

" A lake of some magnitude occupies a considerable portion of the 
centre of the township. It is named by the Indians Nig-ga-go-bing. 

" Land of excellent quality will be found in several places along the 
southern boundary, particularly from lot number one to number eight, 
and from fourteen westward to lot twenty-four. Towards the western 
end of this boundary the land becomes rougher and more broken, although 
still containing small patches of good land. At the south-west angle of 
the township a very extensive marsh occurs, which rendered it difficult 
to continue the survey to that corner. 

" This township is principally watered by the River Seguin, which 
enters it from the east by two branches, the northern at lot No. 1, in 
the 8th concession, flows southerly a distance of about five miles and 

s\ ^ 



142 FHKK C1UNT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

the southern branch at lot Xo. 1, in the 4th concession, flows westerly 
istance of three and a half miles; uniting at lot No. 11, in the f&gt;th 
concession, flows westerly a distance of three miles, makes an acute angle 
with its last course, flowing south-easterly enters Mill Lake at two miles, 
then forming the outlet of Mill Lake flows south-westerly one and a half 
miles into Parry Sound. 

" At its mouth is situated the nucleus of the town of Parry Sound, 
and lumbering establishment of Messrs. J. & "VT. Beatty & Co. There 
is a church, a post and customs offices, a hotel, and two stores and 
several mechanics. There are about 20 houses, principally occupied by 
the employees of Messrs. Beatty A; Co. 

Between the village and foot of Mill Lake there are three rapids, to 
obviate which there is a very fair portage road. At the foot of Mill 
Lake there is a fine water privilege, and an excellent site for a mill, on 
which the Messrs. Beatty have erected a dam and made other improve, 
ments to facilitate the descent of saw-logs and husband the spriir/,- 
flood for the summer s consumption, of which Mill Lake is the reservoir. 
This chute is about 18 feet high. 

" Mill Lake, the largest inland krke in the township, is very picturesque 
with its deep bays, bold bluffs and pretty islands. From Mill Lake to 
the forks there is very little obstruction to the navigation, except in the 
dry season that it becomes very shallow and unsafe for bark canoes. 

" From the forks, for about two miles, the north branch is composed 
of a series of rapids and cataracts, alternating with small basins of still 
water. The navigation here is wholly impracticable. The scenery is 
extremely wild and romantic. There are many water privileges which 
are not likely to be useful within a reasonable time, and therefore, for 
the present at least, absolutely worthless. To obviate this there is a 
canoe route by Trout Lake, and two smaller ones, and entering the 
north branch at the head of these rapids. From this to the eastern 
boundary, the river may be called three narroAv, shallow lakes divided 
by three short rapids, where it crosses at the foot of the chutes from 
Manatawaba Lake. 

" The south brand), from the forks to the eastern boundary, has but 
but one small rapid, but nearly the whole way it is swift and shallow. 
This stream, as far as I have seen it, is well adapted for the descent of 
saw-logs and timber. 

" There are primarily two conditions essential to the success of a new 



HUMPHREY. 143 

settlement. The first is good land, and the second cheap and expeditious 
Access to markets or centres of trade ; without both these conditions 
new settlements cannot flourish, and it is unfortunate they seldom go 
hand in hand. The former to raise abundant crops, and the latter to 
dispose of them at remunerative prices. I have seen new settlements, 
where the land was of good quality, in a very languishing condition for 
want of the other. For without competition the redundant crop is sold 
at a sacrifice, whilst purchasable necessaries are exorbitantly high. 

" Thangh this township has not the first condition in a pre-eminent 
degree, yet it has a good deal of land well calculated to recompense 
industrious labour, and has very superior advantages in the second con 
dition, as a steamer weekly plies between Parry Sound and Colling- 
wood, and thence by rail to Toronto ; so that Parry Sound, in the sum- 
mnr season, is in direct communication with all the civilized world. 
Besides the route is both cheap and expeditious, leaving Parry Sound 
in the morning and reaching Toronto in the evening; about 180 miles 
for $4.85 cents. 

Such facilities of communication are of vast advantage to the settler, 
and cannot fail to give a great impetus to the speedy and successful 
settlement of this section of the new country, a progress, without which, 
it would not make in another quarter of a century." 

HUMPHREY 

Is bounded on the north by nnsurveyed land, on the east by the Township 
of Cardwell, on the south by Lakes Rosseau and Joseph and imsnrveyed 
land, and on the west by imsnrveyed land. 

This township was sub-divided during 18GG and 1867 by Provincial 
Land Surveyor Gibbs, and contains an area of 49,590 acres, including 
water and roads. 

The following is an extract from Mr. Gibbs Report of Survey : 

The Township of Humphrey embraces an area of 49,596 acres, about 
12,496 acres lying under the waters of Lakes Rosseau, Joseph and 
sundry others of less size. The two first-named extend across a con 
siderable portion of the south part of the township, and are, in great 
part, environed by hilly banks, with here and there high and precipitous 
rocks of gneiss, syenite and others of granitic and qnartzose character, 
which kinds prevail pretty generally throughout the adjacent country. 

The surface, although a good deal broken in this manner, is finely 



144 FREE GRANT LANDS OF PARRY SOUND. 

diversified, with rolling hills and land more slightly undulating, covered 
with a growth of heavy timber, consisting of maple, beech, birch, bass 
iron-wood, hemlock, white pine and other kinds common to this section &lt; f 
country; also tamarac, balsam, spruce, cedar, black ash, and alder swamps ; 
beaver meadows, with an exuberant growth of grass (the "blue joint"), 
cranberry marshes, and some portions too rocky for cultivation; the 
whole interspersed with lakes and small streams, in the greater number 
of Avhich flows clear and limpid water. 

" The streams, being inconsiderable in size, do not afford many per 
manent privileges for machinery ; but the falls situated on both sides of 
the north boundary of concession B, upon Oak Creek, whieh is the largest 
stream in the township, I have no doubt will be found a great convenience 
for mill purposes to the settlers. Skiffs and canoes have access for up 
wards of about two miles from the mouth of the creek, at low water ; 
and it could be made available for driving pine logs and timber, several 
miles from Lake llosseau, in the spring of the year. 

" The lakes and streams abound with fish, in variety, as salmon and 
speckled trout, white-fish, pickerel, bass, perch, suckers, etc. ; and there is 
ample scope for the sportsman along their banks and in the adjacent 
woods in pursuit of game ; deer, rabbits and partridge are especially 
plentiful. In the forest the bear, the wolf and the fox are frequently 
met ; and furred animals, such as the beaver, mink and muskrat, although 
long sought after by the Indian trapper, are yet to be found. 

" A portion of the tract of high land situate between the north- westerly 
hays of Lake Rosseau and Lake Joseph, together with a strip of land ex 
tending along the easterly boundary line northward from the Parry 
Sound road, and along the north boundary next the north-east angle of 
the township, comprising about 8,000 acres, being much broken with rock r 
affords little inducement for settlement ; but, after making this deduc 
tion, I believe the township generally contains more good land than most 
others recently surveyed, with which I am acquainted. The rich loamy 
soil of the higher land, not rocky, is well suited for agriculture, and will 
doubtless produce excellent crops of the different kinds of roots and 
cereals adapted to the climate, and the low lands produce most luxuriant 
grass a great advantage to the early settler in feeding and raising stock. 

" During the past season, peas, oats, Indian corn, potatoes, turnips, 
tobacco, melons and sundry productions, were cultivated by the few 
settlers present, with much success. 



ROAD BETWEEN SPANISH RIVER AND PARRY SOUND. 14-&gt; 

" Since I left the township I have been informed that several respectable 
families have moved in ; and I believe that, with the increased facilities. 
of access, by the opening of the Parry Sound road and the Nipissing 
road line, together Avith the Muskoka Lake steam navigation, through 
the enterprise of A. P. Cockburn, of Gravenhurst, during the past 
season, it will be speedily settled." 

EXPLORATION LINE BETWEEN SPANISH RIVER AND 

PARRY SOUND. 

The following is an extract from Provincial Land Surveyor Fitzgerald s 
report of survey of exploration line for a road between Spanish River 
on the north shore of Lake Huron, and Parry Sound on the east shore 
of Georgian Bay, in the year 1865 : 

" From the Maganatewan, south to Parry Sound, are several hardwood 
tracts of land, though a portion of the country has a partially broken 
surface. On. the whole, I consider this tract capable of affording fully 
CO to 75 per cent, of arable land. It is covered in places with exceed 
ingly fine beech and maple, while other parts yield a fair growth of pine, 
hemlock, etc., and if opened up for settlement, and proper facilities held 
forth, would in a short time become a thriving locality. 

" At Parry Sound the micleus of a promising village has already 
been established. A magnificent saw-mill, owned by the Messrs. Beatty, 
is now in constant operation, and affords employment to a number of men. 

" Though perhaps not more than one-half to two-thirds of this territory 
is actually fit for settlement, yet, in view of the immense quantity of 
valuable pine timber, of the undoubted mineral wealth yet undiscovered 
in this region, of the many important fishing stations along the north 
shore, of the construction of a canal via the French River, and above all, 
being our only land connection with the Great North-West Territory, 
the subject of annexing which to Canada at present occupies so large a 
share of the public mind. Yet I say, in view of these considerations, 
the country will doubtless, ere long, become the scene of active and 
energetic occupations, and form the home of many a happy and prosper 
ous settler." 

ONTARIO. 

Ontario is the largest and wealthiest Province of the Dominion of 
Canada. It comprises forty-three fine large counties, and four new 



FJKKE GRANT LANDS OF PAKUY SOUND. 

judicial districts, viz: the Algoma, Nipissing, Muskoka awd Parry 
Sound. There is but Otte Legislative Chamber in this Province, the 
House of Assembly, composed of eighty two members, elected by the 
people for four years. Population of the Province, nearly 2,000,000 ; 
of the capital, the City of Toronto, about 00,000. 

LiKUT.-GovKRNOK : Hox. W. P. HOWLAXD, C. B. 

KxKruTivK QPUNCIL: Hox. J. S. MACDOXALD, Premier and Attorney- 
General. 

HON. 8. RICHARDS, Commissioner of Crown Lands. 
Hox. JOHX ( arliu^, Commissionei- of Public Works and Agriculture. 
Hox. M. C. CA.MKROX, Provincial Secretary and Registrar. 
Hox. E. P&gt;. WOOD, Provincial Treasurer. 

PUBLIC OFFICERS FOR 3EUSKOKA DISTRICT. 

STII-KX-DIARV MA&lt;JISTHATK C. W. Louut, barrister, Bracebridge. 
REGISTRAR C. W. Lount, barrister, Bracebridge. 
CROWN LANDS AGEXT C. W. Lount, barrister, Bracebridge. 
DISTRICT SEAT Village of Bracebridge. 

PUBLIC OFFICERS FOR PARRY SOUND DISTRICT. 

M-II-KXIJIARV MAOISTUATE J. W. Rose, Parry Sound. 

RECISTRAR J. W. Rose, Parry Sound. 

&lt;_ HO\VN LANDS AGEXT John D. Beatty, Parry Sound. 



a 



AD 



\*Oit&gt;H ^ 



-iK^ffZ 



^ 

orr- ^/2, 

"*"t,*. \\&***-sr , \J fr^ 

VK^M^SK^- l&gt;* 

**%3^ ^m nl T y^ 






^ 



X 



.HS 





o^ 



\rr&gt;^WW 

1 5RWCOO-.--v ^=r^ \ .-S.---=_^ 

1 Awefl^* v ^ 



^\s^&gt; 



.ADAMSTON 





"^grr^,^ 

* f "" B Jf%^ 



^V 1 ""^^ 

^v* 



SS&XL 



S&CDULBURN W 

F x V"l ft ;- 






DALHOUSIE 



x ^^v^^r^p-B^ 



8\1 



\ 






* / 

*.*rt*+*J^ 





/&gt; tli 

\,e^! 5 



B! 



X^ 68ffl vi 

^ \ K ^jy 



f^ 

,CPf W/CCWT 



* *fi^^^- 





^..^___m_ 

(apeVinceni WO Milts 
tie Sea 100 Fathoms deep 





&lt;/ - 



r s^~ 





Existing Railways 
Hallways undtr construction 



*,**, Protected 
__ _ Colonization Roads 
-=_: ^oAaLf. 
_______ County Boundary line* 

______ t ._ fivi\incial Bvundary /i/ic. 

J* -Bf- 

------- Dominion Boundary fine 

Grant Land a. 



Compiled and prepared f 



FROM THE LATEST GOVT SURVEYS , M/ 

W. J. S. H O I.WK LL, l. I 
1871 



10 miles to an i 



1O 13 10 



10 



^ ^yr 
&lt;\y- ; i&gt;^ i%^ ^*%* 

4/V\^W^ 

V ^ \ &lt;^^V|BAR E , 



\ 



xt^^^^^t^fe^: 



- -\ *r* 

f* + + *...\ xT I 



f/\fa\ll \ 



/ x Aa c ^ 

^ AlK^* 






pe Hncenl 190 Miltg 
the Sea 100 Fathoms deep 



OF THE ( 



epared for the 



5URVEYS,MAPS,W:.U 




DOMINION OF CANADA 




TO THE 






To Capitalists, Tenant Farmers, Agricultural Labourers, Mechanics, Day 

Labourers, and all parties desirous of Improving their 

Circumstances by Emigrating to a New Country. 

The attention of intending Emigrants is invited to the great advantages presented 
by the Province of Ontario. Persons living on the Interest of their Money can easily 
get EIGHT PER CENT, on first-class security. 

TENANT FARMERS WITH LIMITED CAPITAL, 

Can buy and stock a Freehold Estate with the money needed to carry on a small farm 
in Britain. Good Cleared land, with a Dwelling and good Barn and out-houses upon 
it, can be purchased in desirable localities, at from 4 to 10 sterling per acre. 

Farm hands can readily obtain work at GOOD WAGES. 

Among the inducements offered to intending Emigrants, by Government is 

A FREE GRANT OF LAND! 

WITHOUT ANY CHARGE WHATEVER. 

Every Head of a Family can obtain, on condition of settlement a Free Grant of 
TWO HUNDRED ACRES of Land for himself, and ONE HUNDRED ACRES 
additional for each member of his family, male or female, over eighteen years of a^e. 

All persons over Eighteen years of age can obtain a Free Grant of ONE HUN 
DRED ACRES. 

The Free Grants are protected by a Homestead Exemption Act, and are not liable 
to seizure for any debt incurred before the issue of the patent, or for twenty years 
after its issue. They are within easy access of the front settlements, and are supplied 
with regular postal communication. 

And of Improved Farms for sale, are kept at the Immigration Agencies in the Province 
and arrangements are made for directing emigrants to those points where employment 
can _be most readily obtained. Several new lines of Railway and other Public Works 
are in course of construction, or about being commenced, which will afford employment 
t" an almost unlimited number of labourers. 

Persons desiring fuller information respecting the Province of Ontario 

Are invited to apply personally, or by letter, to the Canadian Government Emigration 
Agents in Europe, viz : WM. DIXON, 11 Adam Street, Adelphi, London W C 
J. G. MOYLAN, Dublin ; CHARLES FOY, Belfast ; DAVID SHAW Glasgow 
and E. SIMAYS, Continental Agent at Antwerp. 

Also to the Immigration Agents in Canada, viz : JOHN A. DONALDSON 
Toronto; R. H. RAE, Hamilton; WM. J. WILLS, Ottawa ; JAS. MACPHERSON 
Kingston; L. STAFFORD, Quebec; J. J. DALEY, Montreal; E. CLAY Halifax 
Nova Scotia ; ROBT. SHIVES, St. John, and J. G. G. LAYTON, Miramichi, New 
Brunswick. from whom pamphlets, issued under the authority of the Government of 
Ontario, containing full particulars in relation to character and resources of, and the 
cost of living, wages, &c., in the Province, can be obtained. 

JOHN CARLING-, 

Commissioner of Agriculture and Pnl&gt;li,: Work 

DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGRATION for the Province of Ontario 

Toronto, March, 1871. 



NORTHERN RAILWAY 

OF CANADA. 




IN CONNECTION WITH THE 

FREE GRANT DISTRICTS 

OF 

PARRY SOUND AND MUSKOKA. 

Laud given away to all comers over 18 years of age. A family of 
several persons can secure a large block of land gratis. 

The Government of Ontario offers as a Free Grant to any actual settler 
over 18 years of age, One Hundred Acres of Land in the Free Grant 
Districts. 

Heads of Families get Two Hundred Acres as a Free Grant. 

Locatees, in addition to obtaining the Free Grant of 1 00 acres, will be 
allowed to purchase an additional 100 acres at 50 cents an acre, cash. 

TRAINS MOVING NORTH 

Leave the Company s Stations, City Hall* and foot of Brock Street, 
Toronto, as follows : 

A.M. P.M. 

City Hall ............................................ 7.0U 4.00 

Brock Street .................... . .................... 7.15 4.15 

Tare from Toronto to Bracebridge, $3-75. 



BELL EWART With Steamer EmUij May, leaving Bell Ewart every 
morning, on arrival of Mail Train from Toronto, for Beaverton, Orillia 
And intermediate ports on Lake Simcoe, connecting with steamer for 
Washago : also stage for Graveuhurst, and steamer Wenonah for Brace- 
bridge and ports on Lake Musk oka, and steamer Wabamik for ports on 
Lake Rosseau. With steamer tiimcoe, leaving Bell Ewart every evening 
on arrival of Express Train from Toronto, for Orillia direct, returning to 
Bell Ewart connect with Morning Express Train for Toronto and Colling- 
wood. 

BARUIE Daily stage to Penetanguisbine. With steamer Ida- Jinrtun, 
leaving Barrie at 5.30 a.m. daily for Orillia and Washago, connecting 
with stage for Gravenhurst, and steamer Weuonah for Bracebridge and 
ports 011 Lake Muskoka, and steamer Wabamik f one ports on Lake llosseau. 

COLLIKGWOOD The steamer Wanbuno leaves Collingwood every Satur 
day morning for Parry Sound. 

FRED. CUMBERLAND, 

Managing Director. 



