Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



r 



iDVERTlSEMENTS. 



ENTIRE WHEAT FLOUR 



tUat (bis additi 



ENTIRE WHEAT FLOUR 

(Chapman's Patent Prepared) 
IF O 14 C^'^ L U R. B rCT . 
T«e exlreme imporiaacBf^KiOfi^'mppif^Afhtaphatts in all food« eape- 
ei.Hyinlhatonnfaiitirtifesji^feR^f^'I^MJ"'*'' ™i"^f' ioBiBled on 
of liiu l)y "rilers on dietatiji, and ia now geiftSl)C"tognifed by mediol 
men. KeTertheltiBB, till^cently the oaly altemj]^ to furniali tlie publii 
with B food conbilain^; a due irupoPlBOD o( (Usti invatnable saltt wn* 
m«di^ by ailiiing art-Ji'^ial pl.oiphLiissJiuiie fooj tjenernlly used. Tliis plan 

ENtSIx WHEAT// FLOUR 

FV*?. /.'- -J CChapmaa'3 Pateut Pieparedj 



ENTIRE WW5*' 



1 



EECENT WORKS BY DR. CAMERON. 1 

Price Five ShiHings. 
THE 

STOCK-FEEDERS' MANUAL; 

OR 

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD 

IN RELATION TO THE 

FEEDING AND BREEDING OF LITE STOCK. 

** We do not, indeed, know of any book which contains so much in- 
formation of the kind." — The Farmer, 

** Every owner of a horse should have a copy." — Quarterly Journal 
cf Medical Science, 

** The author is thoroughly practical in his treatment of the subject." 
— Chemical News, 

" Contains an immense quantity of information of use to farmers." — 
Journal oflhe New York State Agricultural Society, 

CASSELL, PETTER, AND GALPIN, LONDON. 



Price One Shilling. 

A HANDY-BOOK ON HEALTH. 

Second Edition. Numerous Illustrations. 

CASSELL, PETTER, AND GALPIN. 

Favourably reviewed by nearly fifty leading periodicals and new^ 
papers. 



Price Sixpence, 

GUIDE TO THE ROYAL ZOOLOGICAL 
GARDENS, PHCENIX PARK. 

Seventh Edition. 

Dublin : R. C. GERRARD, Ormond-quay. 

Contains popular descriptions of nearly 150 animals. 

** A more charming little volume on Natural History could aot be 
met with." — Irish Times, 



In the Press J 

ON DISEASE PREVENTION: 

A Practical Treatise on Disinfection. 
Price 6d. 

LONDON: BALLIERE, TINDALL, & COX. 



HANDY BOOK 



ON 



FOOD AND DIET, 



IN 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 



By CHARLES A. CAMERON. Ph.D., M.D.. 

LICENTIATE OF THE KINO ANI> QUEBN*8 COLLSOB OV PHTSICIAN8 

IN IBBLJLND, PBOFfiSSOfi OF HYGIENE IN THE ROTAL 

COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY 

IN STEEYENS' HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE, 

LECTURER ON CHEMISTRY IN THE LEDWICH 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, ANALYST TO THE 

CITY OF DUBLIN, BTa, BTC., BTa 



CASSELL, PETTER, AND G A L P I N, 

LONDON AND NEW YORK. 

BAILLIKRE, TINDALL «fe COX., 
LONDON, PARIS, AND MADRID. 



r 






■ r 



^ 



h I NUL . . 

t^ .,/.//■ 



.14. 



'■^■''FOV 



PREFACE. 



The following pages contain a brief account of the present state 
of our knowledge relative to the composition of food, and the 
functions which it performs in the animal body. 

The results of recent investigations have shed new light en th« 
processes of nutrition, and have modified long entertained 0|>inion8 
as to the means bj which the heat and energy of our bodies bo^ 
maintmed. The object of this little Work is partly to explain 
the newest views relative to the physiology of digestion, and the 
comparative values and modes of action of food substances ; partly 
to present to the public a cheap and plainly written book on Food 
and regimen. 



TO 



SIR DOMINIC J. CORRIGAN, BART., M.D., M.P., 



EX'President of the King and Queen^s College of Physicians in 
Ireland; Physician in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen j 



My Dear. Sir Dominic,— 

In permitting me to inscribe to you this little book, yoa 
add another to the favours which you have conferred upon 

Yours, dear Sir Dominic, 

Very faithfully and obliged, 

CHARLES A. CAMERON. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

Katttbb and Functions of Food. 

Elementary Constituents of Substances — Functious of Animals— How 
Plants Grow — ^Balance of Organic Life — How Food Acts, 
p. 9—11. 

CHAPTER 11. 

Fboximatb Constituents of Food. 

Starch — Sugars — ^Vegetable Mucilage— Cellulose— The Pectosc Bodies 
—Gums — Inulin — Dextrin — Composition of Carbo-Hydrates-^ 
Vegetable Acids — Oils and Fats — Stearin, Olein, and Palmitin — 
Composition of the Fats— Functions of Non-nitrogenous Bodies 
— ^Albuminoids — Albumin, Fibrin, and Casein — Composition of 
Albuminoids — Gelatin — Phosphorized Oils — Saline Constituents 
of Food. p. 11—16. 

. CHAPTER in. 

Yegetablb Foods. 

Wheat — Oatmeal— Barley— Rye— Indian Com — ^Rice — Bread — Bak- 
ing Powders — Qualities of Good Bread — Biscuits — Peas and Beans 
— The Potato, Parsnip, Carrot, and Turnip— Cabbage and other 
Esculent Vegetables — Fruits— Sugar and TrQa.<(il& — Kxtws^visaX 
Tapioca, and " Corn Flours." i^. 1^— ^, 



i 



CHAPTER IV. 

Animal Food — Composition op Flesh. 

Centesimal Composition of Animal Carcasses — Qualities of Different 
Kinds of Flesh Considered— Fish - Shell Fish — Composition of 
the Oyster — Turtle— Milk — Composition of the Milk of Different 
Animals — Cream, Skimmed Milk, Whey, and Buttermilk— Cheese 
—Eggs — Extract of Meat — Meat Biscuits, p. 22—29. 



CHAPTER V. 

Mineral Food. 

Mineral Ingredients of Food — Cause of Rickets in Children — The 
Reason why Animals like Salt — Water and its Properties— Purest 
Natural Waters — Mineral Waters— Springs and Wells — Gases 
Found in Water — Influence of Soils and Rocks on Drainage — 
Cause of " Hardness" in Waters, and its Remedy — Is Soft Water 
Wholesome ? ^Diseases Produced or Induced by the use of Impure 
Water— Purification of Water, p. 29—39. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Stimttlants and Condiments. 

Tea — Coffee — Cocoa — Physiological Actionof Tea and Coffee— Akohol 
— Is Alcohol Food? — Actionof Alcohol in Health and Disease 
— Percentage of Alcohol in Different Beverages — Spirits, Wines, 
Beer, Ale, and Porter-> Condiments — Sugar, Salt, Vinegar, and 
Spices, p. 40 — 47. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

Adultebation of Food. 

Bread — ^Flour — Arrowroot — Butter — Cheese — Milk — Sugar — Tea-*- 

Coffee ; Cheap Kinds certain to be Adulterated — Chicory— Cocoa 

— Pickles; very green kinds are probably poisonous —Mustard — 

JPepper-^Wines — Strong Spirits— Beer, Ale, and Porter — Sugar 

Confectionary, p. 47 — 52, 



CHAPTER Vni. 

Diseased Meat. 
Illness Produced by the Use of Diseased Meat — Parasitic Diseases of 
Animals used as Food — Tinchina spiralis — Tape Worm caused 
by the use of Measly Pork — Flukes in the Liver — Contagious 
Diseases of Animals used as Food — Thorough Cooking Destroys 
the Parasites in Flesh — Poisonous Qualities of Putrid and Mouldy 
Food— Characteristics of Good Meat — Milk of Diseased Cows, 
p. 52—65. 

CHAPTER IX. 

Nutritive Value op Foods. 
Difference between the Commercial Value and the Nutritive Value of 
Foods— Heat-giving and Force-producing Power of Aliments — 
Tables of the Nutritive Values of Foods — Amount of Force 
which Different Foods evolve when Burned— Waste of Food in 
the Animal Economy — Functions of the Different Constituents of 
Food — Animal Motive Power obtained chiefly from Fats and 
Carbo-Hydrates — Experiments of Frankland, Voit, Wislicenus, 
and others, p. 55 — 60. 

CHAPTER X. 

Dietaries. 
Definitions of Ingeita and Egesta— iftm^TMim Quantities of Food 
Principles necessary to sustain Life — Food Wants of a Work- 
• ing Man— Proper Dietaiy for Soldiers— Dietaries of Work- 
people poorly or barely fed — Amount of Food weekly consumed 
by English, Irish, and Scotch Labourers —Deficiency of Fat in 
the Food of the Irish Peasantry — Dietaries of well-fed Operatives 
— Points to be considered in calculating Dietaries, p. 61—66. 

CHAPTER XI. 
Cooking Food. 
Definition of Cookery— Difference between British and French Modes 
of Cooking— Waste of Food— Most Economical way to use Meat 
— How Meat should be Boiled — Preparation ot Soup — ^Broth and 
Soup for the Working Classes— Best kind of Soup for Inva- 
lids — Boiling— Roasting— Broiling— Baking — Frying— Stews and 
Hashes — Salted Meat — Brine becomes Pq\&qu<^^% \s^ \ft^ ^^^^ 
quent use. p. 66—71. 



8 

CHAPTER XIL 

DlGESnOK. 

Mastication— Structure of the Teeth — Man an Omniyorous Animal — 
Composition of Saliva — Evils of Imperfect Mastication — Action 
of PtyaUn on Starchy Food — ^Digestion in the Stomach — Gastric 
Juice — Pepsin and its Functions — Peptones and Parapeptones — 
Formation of Chyme— Digestion in the Duodenum — Pancreatic 
Juice — Bile — Digestion of Fats — ^Functions of the Liver — ^Pro- 
duction of Chyle— The Lacteal System-^Conversion of Chyle into 
Blood, p. 72—81. 



CHAPTER XIIL 

Dietetics, or Rbgimek. 

Proper Food for Infants — ^Diet of the Wet Nurse — Special Foods for 
Children — ^Nursery Dietaries — Proper Hours for Meals — Mortality 
produced by Defective Nutrition— Less Food necessary in Summer 
than in Winter — ^Relative Digestibility of different kinds of Food 
— ^Beaumont's Experiments, p. 81 — ^^, 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Dyspepsia, or Indioestion. 

Diet in relation to Disease — Dangers of Over-nutrition — Mr. Banting's 
Case— Causes and Cure of Obesity— Dietaries for the Sick Room — 
Milk Diet in Chronic Maladies — Suitable Foods for Dyspeptics — 
British Corn Flour — Alcohol in Disease—Causes of Simple 
Dyspepsia — Flatulence — Heartburn — Biliousness — ^Indigestion in 
the Stomach -Indigestion in the Duodenum— Health Resorts for 
Dyspeptics, p. 88—96. 



HANDY BOOK ON FOOD AND DIET. 



CHAPTER I. 

NATURE AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD. 

Thk world, so far as we have been able to discover, is com- 
posed of aboat sixty-two distinct substances, termed element f^ 
or simple bodies. Gold and sulphar are elements, and are 
met with in nature in an uncombined state ; but the great 
majority of the elements are found combined with' each other 
in different proportions. For example, chalk contains three 
elements — a metal, termed calcium, a solid body called 
carbon (identical with the diamond, charcoal, and black lead)» 
and a gas (when free) named oxygen. Any bodies that 
we can decompose so as to extract other kinds of matter 
from them are compounds ; those from which only one kind 
of matter can be obtained are elements. We cannot take 
anything out of iron save iron, because that metal is an 
element ; but by means of the processes of chemical analysis 
we are able to extract from alum four distinct kinds of mat- 
ter, namely, sulphur, oxygen, and the metals aluminium and 
potassium. 

A large number of the elements occur in extremely 
minute quantities, and not more than a dozen are compara- 
tively abundant. With the exception of aluminium, all the 
more abundant elements are found in animal «^\A ^^<^^*«bS^^ 



10 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

substances. Oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen are gases in 
their free state ; but when combined with each other, and 
with the solid element, carbon, in various proportions, they 
constitute an immense variety of compounds — mineral, 
vegetable, and animal. By far the greater part of food is 
composed of these elements. The other simple bodies found 
in plants and animals are sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine, 
potassium*, sodium, calcium, magnesium, and iron. Silicon, 
the basis of flint, is found in some kinds of plants ; but it is 
not essential to animal life ; and fluorine, iodine, bromine, 
caBsium, rubidium, lithium, and even a few of the poisonous 
metals — such as lead and copper — though often found in plants, 
are in all probability merely accidentally present. 

Animals do not possess the power of converting the 
elements found in the mineral kingdom into their own 
bodies ; therefore, they are wholly dependant for their sup- 
ply of nutriment upon the vegetable creation. It is the great 
function of plants to convert mineral matter into those highly 
complex substances termed organicy some of which consti- 
tute the nutriment upon which the whole animal kingdom 
subsists* The vegetable organizes^ the animal disorganizes. 
The plant takes into its mechanism mineral matters, the 
constituents of which it recombines, so as to produce from 
them sugar, starch, woody fibre, and the various other sub- 
stances termed vegetable. The animal takes into its organ- 
ism vegetable substances, reorganizes them into its tissues, 
or structured, and subsequently disorganizes them, and re- 
daces them to their original mineral condition. 

A plant grows by the assistance of light and heat; and it 
is believed that when mineral matter becomes vegetable 

* Potassium and oxygen form oxide of potassium, or potash, soda is the 
oxide of sodium, lime is the oxide of calcium, n^ai^nesia the oxide of mag- 
nesium. Sulphur and phosphorus exist in food chiefly in the form of sul- 
/xharjc ACid and phosphoric acid, and united with various metals. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 1 1 

jnatter the heat and light under the influence of which the 
change had been effected become stored up in the vegetable 
matter. In this way we account for the fact that when wood 
is burned we obtain light and heat ; and it explains how it 
is that combustion of coal (which is partly decayed vegetable 
matter) supplies the force by means of which the huge loco* 
motive is impelled with almost lightning speed. As animals 
are obliged to roam about in quest of food, and as the tem- 
perature of their bodies must be kept up to about 100 deg. 
Fahrenheit, no matter how cold the air is, we see how necessary 
it is that they should be well supplied with heat and motive 
power. Food is not alone used for the purpose of forming 
and repairing the animal body — it is also intended to supply 
it with heat and with motive power. 



CHAPTER II. 

PROXIMATE CONSTITUENTS OF FOOD. 

We have seen that the elementary constituents of food are 
but very few in number : the same simplicity prevails with 
respect to its more important proxiate ingredients. If we 
except the substances which confer flavour and odour upon 
food, and which exist in minute quantities, our ordinary 
nutriment is made up of but very few distinct substances. If 
we exclude water — which constitutes from 5 to 94 per cent, of 
the weight of dififerent kinds of food — the most abundant 
nutritive material is starch. This body consists of somewhat 
flattened ovate grains, which in most plants are marked by 
a series of concentric rings. They vary in size from thy 
200th to the 3,500th part of an inch in diameter, accord- 



12 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

iDg to the plant which yields them. Starch when heated to 
400* Fahrenheit is conyerted into British gum, or dextrin ; 
and when heated with dilate snlphoric acid, or mixed with 
a fermentiscible bodj, it is soon changed into a sweet sab- 
stance termed gprape sugar, which is identical with that 
foand in fraits and malted com. There is 15 per cent, of 
starch (oat of the 25 per cent, of solid matter fband) in the 
potato. Rice contains 82, wheat 60, and turnips 5 per cent, 
of starch ; and arrow root, taus let mais^ and tapioca are 
whollj composed of starch and water. 

There are about a dozen substances termed sugars^ which 
are nearlj identical in composition, and strongly resemble 
the conmion (cane) sugar. Saecharosej eane^ or ordinary 
sugar, consists of little white transparent crystals ; it occurs 
abundantly in the sugar cane, beet root, the sug^ maple, 
carrots, pumpkins, and various other plants. Glucose, or 
grape sugar forms very small cubic crystals ; it is inferior 
in colour to cane sugar, and possesses less than one-half the 
sweetening power of the latter. It is found in grapes, figs, 
and other fruits, and in honey. IabvuIosc or fruit sugar is 
identical in composition with grape sugar, but it is even 
sweeter than cane sugar. It occurs in sweet fruits, in honey, 
and in molasses. It does not crystallize. Vegetable muci- 
lage is found in almost every kind of plant, and largely in 
flax and other seeds. It resembles gum very closely. Cel- 
lulose, which forms the cellular, or fundamental tissue of 
plants, and which in a modified state constitutes common 
wood, resembles starch in composition, and is convertible 
into grape sugar by the action of sulphuric acid. Some of 
the lower animals are able to digest cellulose, but it is not 
suitable food for man. The pectose bodies, which include 
pectote^ pectin, and pectosic^ pectic, and metapeetie acids 
are generally diffused throughout the vegetable kingdom. 
They are most abundant in fleshy fruits, but they constitute 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 13 

no inconsiderable proportion of the nutritive matter found 
in roots and foliage. The chemisty of pectose bodies is not, 
as yet, thoroughly investigated ; but there is no doubt that 
they are nutritious substances, probably equal to starch or 
sugar. Pectose is termed vegetable jelly, because it is owing 
to its presence that the juices of various fruits gelatinize. 

Gums are commonly met with in plants, They are most 
probably nutritive substances ; but the point is a disputed one. 

Inulin closely resembles starch, and to a great extent re- 
places that substance in several roots — those of the dan- 
delion, artichoke, and chicory, for example. 

Dextrin occurs — but only in minute quantities, and un- 
der certain conditions — in various plants. During the malt- 
ing of corn it is produced in great abundance from the starch 
of the grain. The sugars, starches, and pectose bodies are, 
there is reason to believe, about equal in nutritive power. 
Many of them are absolutely identical in their ultimate 
chemical composition. Cellulose, starch, inulin, vegetable 
mucilage, and dextrin have exactly the following centesimal 
composition : — Carbon, 44.44 ; hydrogen, 6.17 ; oxygen, 
49.39 = 100. Grape and fruit sugars are also identical in 
composition, each being composed of — carbon, 40.00 ; hy- 
drogen, 6.67; oxygen, 53.33 = 100. Cane sugar is iden- 
tical .with some of the gummy bodies ; it is composed of 
42.11 parts of carbon, 6r43 of hydrogen, and 51.46 of oxy- 
gen = 100. Pectin is composed of — carbon, 40.67 ; hydro- 
gen, 5.08 ; oxygen, 55.25 = 100. 

The members of the cellulose, starchy, saccharine, and 
pectose group of aliments are termed carbo-hydrates^h^QdiUse 
they are composed of carbon, united with hydrogen and oxy- 
gen — the latter two being present in the same proportions 
that they exist in water.* 

* This does not apply to the pectose bodies. Hydrated means that water 
is present. 



w 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 



The vegetable acids are composed of carbon, hjdrogeo, 
end Dxjgea. Tbcj are Dumerou^; but only five of them 
ure intiiresting in connection with the subject of food : thesa 
are tartaric, citric, malic, acetic, and oxalic acids. Malio 
acid is abundant in apples, plums, gooseberries, cberries, 
currants, and most of the common fruite. It is found also 
in the garden rhubarb and in various wild berries. Tar- 
taric acid occurs largely in the grape, and is found to pirn 
apples and other fruits, and in the potato and other tubers. 
Citric acid is largely present in the lemon, and it is generally 
Hssociated with malic acid in the ordinary fruits. Oxalic 
acid is found in most plants; but it occurs abundantly in 
the garden rhubarb and sorrel. Acetic acid, or vinegar, ia 
very rarely present in lining plants j but it is frequently pro- 
duced when their juices are fermenting. All these acida 
exist in plants combined with metals — potassium, &c. — which 
neutralize their sour taste ; but they are ol'teu in a fret 
state, and hence render the vegetable juices acid. The chief 
dietetic value of the vegetable acids is their anti-scorbutic 
property, which is very remarkable. 

Oils and Tats are, like the preceding groups of food eub- 
itances, composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen 5 but 
they contain relatively more carbon and hydrogen. They ara 
widely distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom, and 
are particularly abundant in the seeds of planla. The fata 
that are of interest as food substances are stearin, Dalmiiiii, 
and olein. These consist of fatty acids (so-called ; but they 
are not aour), united with glycerin. When stearin, or any 
similar fat, is boiled with potash or soda, the alkali unites 
with the fatty acid, forms with it a soap, and sets free the 
glycerin. Olein is a fluid fat, and ia largely present in oils. 
Palmilin occurs in butter, in palm and other oils, and in 
id wai. Stearin is the chief fat in tuilow, and is the 
It abundatit of the fatty bodJCB. 



i 



Handy Book on Food and Diet 1 5 

Composition of thb Fats. 





Stearin. 


Olein. 


Palmitin 


Carbon 


... 76.6 


76.9 


77.4 


Hydrogen ... 


... 12.4 


12,2 


11.8 


Oxygen ... 


... 11.0 


11.9 


10.8 



100.0 100.0 100.0 

In nutritive power, 1 part of fat is equal to 2^ parts of 
starch or sugar. 

The fats and the carbo-hydrates are alone incapable of 
forming flesh or bone, because they do not contain nitrogen, 
sulphur, and phosphorus. The fats and carbo-hydrates 
supply only three of the elements necessary to the building 
up of the animal body; the others are furnished by the 
albuminoid^ or nitrogenous group and the saline elements of 
nutrition. The chief albuminoids are albumin, fibrin, and 
casein. Albumin is an uncrystallizable solid. It is soluble 
in water' up to 140 degrees Fah., at which temperature it 
coagulates, t.^., becomes insoluble. It is found in the juices 
of plants, often in great abundance. Fibrin is not abundant 
in vegetables; it is rather a hard, horny substance. The 
gluten of wheat flour is chiefly composed of albumin and 
fibrin. Vegetable casein is very abundant in the pea and 
bean. There are various other albuminoids, but they all 
resemble each other so closely that many chemists believe 
them to be identical in ultimate composition. It is very 
remarkable that two or more distinct substances should 
possess the same elementary composition. The difference in 
properties appears to be due to diflerences in the arrange- 
ment of the particles of matter composing each substance. 

Composition of Albuminoids. 

Salphnr 
Carbon. Oxygen. Hydrogen. Nitrogen, andphos- 

phorui. 
▲Ibnmin 53.4 23.0 7.1 15.6 0.9 

Vegetable fibrin 64.3 20.6 7.3 V^.<^ >-.^ 

V«g©UWc caiein 53.9 23.() 1.1 \t»,^ '^•^ 



1 6 Handy Book on Food and Diet, 

Albumin, fibrin, and casein are abundantly present in 
animal substances, but they do not differ in any important 
respect from the vegetable substances of the same name. 
Gelatin is a nitrogenous substance ; but it does not contain 
phosphorus, and probably includes but little, if any, sulphur. 
Its nutritive properties have been called in question, but it 
is, in my opinion, decidedly entitled to be ranked amongst 
the food principles. It does not occur in the vegetable 
kingdom. 

The fats stearin, palmitin, and olein, which form the fatty 
tissues of animals, are essentially the same substances as the 
stearin, palmitin, and olein of the vegetable kingdoms. In 
the brain and nerves, fats containing phosphorus occur, and 
similar fats have been lately discovered in various vege- 
tables. 

The saline matters which are used as food are generally 
found associated with the albuminoids. They are com-> 
posed of potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, and iron, 
with chlorine and phosphoric, sulphuric, and organic acids. 
Common salt (a compound of chlorine and the metal sodium) 
is the only mineral food, except water, for which animals 
have an instinctive longing. 



CHAPTER III. 

VEGETABLE FOODS. 

The most valuable and generally used vegetable food is 

that derived from the grains of the cereal plants — the wheat, 

oat, barley, rye, rice, &c. Wheat flour is by far the best 

material for the xnAimfacture of fermented bread. Oatmeal 



Bandy Book on Food and Diet. 1 7 

IB not adapted for bread-making : but it forma excellent 
cakes -, and in the form of porridge it conBlitutes the staple 
food of the Scotch agricultural labourers, and that of the 
great majority of the Eoglish agricultural labourers. It is 
also largely used in Ireland, Barley flour cannot be well 
made into bread, unless when mixed witb wheat flour. Bar- 
ley meal is an economical food; but, weight for weight, 
it is inferior to both wheat flour and oatmeal. It is bebt 
used in the form of stirabout, or porridge. Kye is but little 
used now in the United Kingdom ; but it is one of the most 
Common breadstuffs in the north of Europe. It is inferior 
in every respect to wheat. Indian corn is a nutritious grain, 
but, although a. very cheap and very nutritious food, its want 
of flavour rondel's it the least favorite food used by the lower 
classes. It is best used in the form of stirabout ; for ibe 
bread made from it is very unpalatable. Bice is the least 
nutritious of the food grains ; but it is well flavoured and 
▼cry digestible. 

Bread and biscuit are in Great Britain chiefly prepared 
from the flour of wheat. The seed, or grain of the wheat 
is resolved by the processes of grinding and sifting into ^our, 
tha'>'pt, pollards, and bran. One hundred pai'ts of grain 
yield from 62 to 87 parts of flour and from 13 to 38 parts of 
bran, according to the thickness of the husk, or covering of 
the seed. In general the percentage of bran ia not more 
than ten. There are usually two qualities of flour. Fine 
flour, otfirsti, contains no bran ; in seconds there is a small 
proportion of bran, which renders the colour of the flour a 
little darker than that of the 6rsts. Sharps contain a rather 
large proportion of briin, and are generally reground and 
resolved into flour and bran. Pollards are largely composed 
of the busk of the grain, and are only fit food for the lower 
iinimals. Bran consists chiefly of husks, but it is found im- 
possible to separate it wholly from the CatvQa^Q^'^.tiNit-,^\.\--^»s!^ 



18 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

by the millers' processe?. From the first quality of flour the 
whitest and nicest bread 19 manufnclured ; but the second 
forms the moat economical brendsiuff, and produces a well- 
flavoured loaf. Wheat grain, ground, but unsifted, or ordi- 
nary flour mixed with a little bran, are made into brotrn 
bread. This food is richer in albuminous matter than white 
bread ; but a considerable proportion of it is indigestible. 
Working men prefer whire bread to brown, not on account 
of superior flavour, but because of its greater economy. 
Brown bread i-^, in fact, better suited to the eick than to tha 
poor ; and its laxative properties recommend it to many per- 
sons. It is the bran in brown bread which is indigestible ; 
but it has lately been discovered that from this constituent 
of grain a large proportion of soluble, easily digestible, 
and highly nitrogenous substance, termed cereatin, may be 
obtained. An excellent preparation termed "Chapman's 
Enlire Wheat Flour" has recently been introduced by Mr. 
Orlando Jones, of London. It contains nearly all the cere- 
alin, and the phoaphatea originally present in the grain. 

Bread is prepared by laboriously kneading flour with water, 
salt, and yeast, and allowing the very soft dough (sponge) 
so prepared to remain for some time in a trough placed 
in a warm eituattoo. This process is termed setting thr 
tponge. In a short time the yeast (a highly nitrogenous 
subalacce in a siale of fermentation) begins to act upon the 
flour ; part of the starch becomes sugar, which in turn ia 
changed into alcohol, with eimultaneoos production of 
carbonic aeid, which puffs up the dough by filling its 
cavities with gas. After some time more lioor, water, 
and salt are added to the dough ; a second kneading takes 
place, and again the laasa is allowed to remain for some 
hours in a. warm place. Finally the dough, which ia now 
swollen very much and full of air bubbles, is divided into 
weighed portions, and soon after heated, or baked in an 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 19 

oven. 280 lbs. of flour yield from 960 to 405 lbs. of 
bread. The yeast employed in bread making should be 
sweet, the dough should be thoroughly kneaded, and the 
temperature of the oven should not be lower than 212 de- 
grees Fahrenheit. 

Baking powders for dispensing with the fermentation of 
the dough are chiefly composed of a mixture of one part of 
tartaric acid, two parts of bicarbonate of soda (hydrosodic 
carbonate), and three or four parts of flour. When this mix- 
ture is wetted, carbonic acid is disengaged, which vesiculates 
the dough. The baking process must be at once proceeded 
with ; otherwise the inflated dough will soon subside into its 
original size. 

Badly made and sour bread gives rise to various kinds of 
dyspepsia. Good bread should not be sodden^ or heavy, and 
the cavities should be regular throughout the crumb — large 
holes generally indicating defects either in the yeast, in the 
kneading, or in the baking. The crust should form about one- 
fourth of the weight of the loaf, and it should be thoroughly 
baked, but not burnt. Bread not well baked is less diges- 
tible than well-baked bread. The disadvantages of a purely 
bread diet are the relative deficiencies of its nitrogenous and 
fatty elements. The deficiency is, however, very slight with 
respect to nitrogen ; but it is a decided shortcoming in the 
case of the fats. Butter and rich cheese are the proper ad- 
ditions to a bread diet. Bread and meat of moderate fatness 
also consort well. 

Biscuits are made both from fermented and unfermented 
dough. The latter are chiefiy used by sailors. There are 
a great variety of biscuits made from dough wholly of partly 
fermented, and containing variable quantities of sugar, 
milk, butter, eggs, and spices. The following are the for- 
mulae according to which several kinds of biscuits are pre- 
pared :-— 



20 


Handy Bool on 


Food and Diet. 


^ 




Flour, 


Water or Milt, Butter, 


fi"g", 


Esgi- 




280 ibs. 


l,Quiirls. 


LllB. 


lA 




C-ptain 




10 


15 






M«cliin 




fl 


58 


14 




American 


40 


IT 




Coffee 




83 


17 




140 


The celebrated 


Shrewsbury 


cakes are a 


tade with 280 lbs. 



1 



of flour, 93 lbs, of butter, 93 Iba. of sugar, 93 eggs, and e 
little flavouring matter — cinuamon, mace, £c. 

When of good quality, bread contains about 38 per cent, 
of water, S to 10 per cent, of nitrogenous substances, 1^ per 
cent, of fats, and from 53 to 58 per cent, of gum, dextrin, 
sugar, and starch — the latter generally constituting three- 
fourths of the solid ingredients of bread. Biscuit, if plain, 
closely resembles bread in every respect, save one — its low 
proportion of water, which often is less than seven per 
cent. Soft biscuits contain large proportions of water. 

Peas and beans contain about one-fourth of their weight 
of nitrogenous matter — chiefly legu mi n, which resembles the 
casein of milk. They were formerly esteemed on account 
of their high proportion of albuminoids — the most concen- 
trated form of vegetable food ; but as the value of foods is 
no longer estimated by their proportion of nitrogen, we 
cannot regard peas or beans as aliments superior to wheat 
or oats. They are, however, foods of a most valuable kind, 
and they consort well with butter and other fatty aliments. 

Amongst roots and tubers, the potato occupies the highest 
place. It contains 25 per cent, of solid matters, of which 
four-fifths are carbo-hydrates, and the rest albuminoids, fats, 
and saline matter. Its an ti- scorbutic properties and easy 
digestibility are remarkable. The potato ia alone capable of 
supporting life ; but as it is very deficient in fats, the addi- 
tion of butter or other f*tty matter to a potato diet isj most 
desirable. The parsnip is an excellent vegetable. It oou- 
to'ins about 18 per cent. 'of solid matters, which, however, 
meJudes a larger proportion of the useVeaa cfc\\\i\oaa \\i»a U 



K: 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 21 

innd in the potato. The carrot somewhat reeemljles the 
hut it contains little, if Koy, starch ; three parts of 
parsnip fully equal four parts of carrot. White turnips con- 
tain from DO to 94 per cent, of water : they are not, there- 
fore, nutritious food. 

AnioDgat the plants used on account of their leavefi, the 
Tarieties of the cabbage are the most common. They con- 
tain only about five per cent, of solid matter, of which a 
large proportion is in a semi -organized state, and is, there- 
fore, indigestible. The large quantity of saline matter pre- 
sent to fresh, or succulent vegetables is their chief recommen- 
d at ion. 

Fruita are used as n staple food in many warm countries ; 
but in most parts of Europe they are regarded chiefly in the 
light of luxuries. Deprived of their stones, or seeds, they 
contain often not more than five per cent, of solid matter- 
They are very poor in albuminoids; but they are nsually rich 
in sugar, and many of them contain much acid. There is 
the greatest variation in the relative amounts of pectose, 
sugar, and acid in edible fruits. Berries contain, as a rule, 
more acid than stone fruit. The grape contains from 13 to 
20 per cent, of sugar j the cherry only 1^ per cent. In the 
peach there is about 9 per cent, of soluble pectin and gum ; 
whilst the gooseberry includes only 2 per cent, of these 
bodies. In the common fruits the percentage of free acid 
Tftries from a mere trace to about 3 per cent. The pear is 
almost wholly free from acids, whilst the cun-ant often con- 
tains three times as much free acid as sugar. The grape 
is probably the fruit best adapted for the sick. Aa heat and 
force producing foods, 5^ Iba. of grapes, 6^ lbs, of apples or 
cherries, I Of lbs. of currants, and 12^ of strawberries are 
equal to one pound of starch. The dietetic value of the fruits 
is chiefly due to their fine flavour and their abundance oi 
saline matter. The juice of limes ami W.^otaHs. kvxssww*^-^ 



J 



^Pt2 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 



uied by aailora for the purpose of counteracting the scnrvy- 
producing influences exercised by their 8iiU junt. 

Sugar and treacle are reapiratory, or heat- producing and 
fat-making foods ; but they do not contribute to ihe forma- 
tion of bone or muscle. Owing to their eolubility and good 
flavour, they are readily digestible by most peraona, and they 
are especially esteemed by the young. Treacle possesses 
greater sweetening power than crystallized augar. 

Arrowroot, tapioca, and the different " corn flours" ara 
Tsrietiea of starch. They ore, like sugar, incapable of nour- 
ishing all the tissues ; but combined with milk and other 
articles, they constitute valuable and readily digestible nutri- 

Tha composition of the more important vegetable foods ia 
shown in the table, page 57. 




CHAPTER IV. 

ANIMAL FOOD. 



The itructare of the organs of nutrition in man sbnv^a clearly 
that he ia deaigned by nature to eat both animal and vege- 
table food; and the immense majority of mankind consume — . 
if they can afford it — the flesh of animals. The flesh of the 
ox, freed as far as possible from blood vessels and fat, con- 
tains ab')Ut three-fourths of its weight of water and one- 
fourth of solid matter. The chief part of lean flesh consists 
of bundles of elastic fibres (muscular tissue) enclosed in 
albuminous sheaths, composed of little vessels termed cells. 
The fibres are bathed in water, fatty substances, soluble 
albumin, and a complex substance termed the juice, or estracC 
n»f flesb. The muscular fibres constitute about 15 per cent. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 23 

of lean flesb, and the rest is made up of albumin, fat, gela- 
tinous (resembling gelatin) substances, creatin, creatinin, 
inosinic acid, and various salts. The extractive matter is 
very complex, and its exact composition is not yet thoroughly 
known. The ash is the part which is left when flesh is 
burned ; it is chiefly composed of phosphoric acid and potash* 
The red colour of flesh is due to the blood which is diflFused 
through it. 

The carcasses of the animals used as human food contain 
more fat than lean flesh. The fatter meat is, the less is the 
proportion of water present. Fat meat is, therefore, more 
economical than lean meat, provided, of course, that the con- 
sumer is fond of the fatty parts and is able to digest them. The 
composition of the whole carcasses of oxen, sheep, and pigs 
in diflerent conditions has been determined very accurately 
by Lawes and Gilbert* It is shown in the following table : 

Centesimal Composition of Animal Carcasses, exclusive of OffaU 

(According to Lawes and Gilberts* analyses.) 





Water. 


Lean Flesh. 


Fat. 


Salts. 


Fat Calf 


... 62.3 


16.6 


16.6 


4.5 


Ralf-fat Ox 


... 64.3 


17.6 


22.6 


5.5 


Fat Ox 


... 45.6 


16. 


84.8 


4.6 


Fat Lamb 


.. 4&6 


10.9 


36.9 


8.6 


Store Sheep 


... 67.4 


14.6 


28.8 


4.8 


Half fat do. 


... 49.7 


14.9 


31.3 


4.1 


Fat do. 


... »9.7 


11.6 


46.4 


3.4 


Very fat do. 


... 88.1 


9.1 


56.1 


2.7 


Store Pig 


... 56.3 


14.1 


28.1 


2.5 


Fat Pig 


38.6 


10.6 


49.6 


1.4 



The offal, or unusable and inferior part (liver, lungs, &c.) 
of the fat ox makes up 38.5 per cent, of its weight ; of the 
store ox, 38.9 per cent. ; of the fat calf, 33^ per cent. ; of 
the store sheep, 45.6 per cent. ; of the very fat sheep, 36.8 
per cent. ; of the store pig, 18.8 ; and of the fat pig, 16.1 
per cent, of its weight. 

The analyses of beef and mutton do not show that there 
is any important difference in their composition^ b^^ vV^^^Ss^ 



24 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

a prejudice in favour of beef, which is popularly beMeved to 
be the stronger food. Pork is poorer in saline matter than 
beef or mutton, but it is the fattest kind of animal food, and, 
therefore, seldom contains more than from 30 to 40 per cent, 
of water. Bacon contains less water than is found in pork. 
Irish and English bacon are very superior to American 
bacon, not merely in ilavour, but in nutritive properties. In 
the former the fatty matter is more solid, and there is much 
less loss sustained in cooking it. The flesh of the deer is 
much leaner than that of the ox or sheep, and it contains 
much more blood : on the whole, it is somewhat inferior in 
alimental value, so far, at least, as fat is concerned ; it is, 
however, very digestible. I'he custom of eating this kind 
of food in a state of semi-putridity is one which is not to be 
commended. The flesh of poultry and rabbits is inferior in 
nutritive power to that of the ox or the sheep, being very 
poor in fat, and containing a large amount of water. The fat 
of the flesh of fowl is much less digestible than beef or mut- 
ton fat The flesh of the hare is more nutritive than that of 
the rabbit. The flesh of very young animals is less diges- 
tible and less nutritious than that of matured animals of the 
same kind. A variety of veal termed " slink" is chiefly 
used by the poor, but it is not fit for human food, as it is 
liable to produce diarrhcea. I have analysed the flesh of a 
calf one day old, and obtained the following centesimal 
results: — 



Wfttor ••• .•• ••• 


••• 


72.35 


Fatty matters ... 


... 


6.07 


Lean flesh and extractive matters 


..• 


18.46 


Saline matter ... 


... 
• 


3.12 



100.00 



Salted and "jerked" beef from South America is used 
occasionally in these countries, chiefly amongst the poorest 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 25 

classes of society, I found that the analyses of three speci- 
mens of this food afforded the following average results : — 

Monto Video beef (100 parts contain) : — 

w &icr ••• ••• ••• ••• 4" 

Fatty matters ... ... ... ... 21 

Lean flesh ... ••• ••• ... 27 

Mineral matters (chiefly common salt) ... 12 

100 

The meat hitherto imported from South America and 
Australia has been more or less deficient in flavour, but pro- 
bably the earnest eiforts now being made to procure animal 
food from those distant regions may prove more successful 
in providing us with a cheap, nutritious, and well-flavoured 
article. Live oxen have recently been imported from South 
America, and have been sold at a good profit. 

Fish is very poor in fibrin, but it contains a rather large 
proportion of albumin. In nutritive power it is very infe- 
rior to the flesh of warm blooded animals. Some fishes 
contain large proportions of fat, others but a small amount 
of that ingredient. The oily fishes, such as the salmon and 
the eel, are the most satisfying item and the least digestible 
in a fish diet. Fish out of season — that is, out of condition — 
is often a dangerous kind of food. Fishes are in their prime 
at the time of the ripening of the milt or roe. 

Many people eat with impunity venison when it is half 
raw and half putrid ; the same feat cannot, without danger, 
be performed with fish, which should only be eaten when it 
is quite fresh (or had been salted when fresh), and thoroughly 
cooked. 

Shell fishes are much less nutritious than white fish. They 
contain from 12 to 16 per cent, of solid matter, which re- 
sembles in composition white fish. They are all rather indi- 
gestible, but oysters are the least so. 



26 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

According to Cbevreul, the composition of the oyster is as 
follows : — 

Water ... ... ... ... 60.385 

Nitrogeaona mMten ... ... ... 14.010 

Fatty BQbatanues ... ... ... 1.516 

Salicio matter ... ... ... a.695 

NoU'iiitrogenons mutten ... ... 1.396 

100,000 
The so-called juice of the oyster is believed by many 
persons to possess valuable hygienic properties. According 
to Chevreul, it contains per cent, tlis following: — Water, 
95.880 i nitrogenous matters, 0.570; no n- nitrogenous mat- 
ters, 0.528; saline substances, 3.022=100. 

The flesh of ilie turtle — which forms so prominent an ilea 
ia the cuisine of civic magnates — is popularly supposed to bs 
Mtremely greasy. On the contrary, it is very poor in fatty 
matters, whicb form, indeed, less than \ per cent, of its solid 
ingredients. There are 76 per cent, of water and 14 per 
cent, of nitrogenous matter in the turtle. The soup made 
from the liesh of this reptile is less fatty and more easily 
digestible than the imitation of the article termed mock turtle. 
Milk is the liquid designed by nature for the nouriatament 
of the young of the mammalia. It varies in composition, 
digestibility, and flavour, according to the nature of the 
Boimat that yields it. When examined through the micro 
Bcope, milk is seen to consist of a colourless fluid, containing 
numerous little vesicles, or globules filled with butler — a 
mixture of oily and fatty matters. When the milk is allowed 
to stand for some time, the globules being lighter than the 
clear liquid, gradually ascend to the top, and, mixed with a 
portion of milk, is skimmed od*, and termed cream. A nitro- 
geuoua matter called casein ia dissolved in the clear liquid ; 
but after some time the latter becomes sour and causes ths 
separation of the casein in the form of curd. By boiling 
miJJc the csseio, or, at least, the greater portioa of it, may 



1 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 27 

be at once coagulated, or converted into curd. Muriatic acid, 
rennet, and various other bodies, when added in small quan- 
tity to milk, cause a coagulum, or clot of casein to be formed. 
Composition of the Milk of different Animals. 
1,000 parts contaia — 

Water. Butter. Ch^. ^-^' M.^.' 

Woman ... 889.08 26.66 39.24 43.64 1.38 

Cow ... 864.20 31.30 48.80 47.70 «.00 

Goat ... 844.90 56.87 35.14 36.91 €.1^ 

Ewe ... 832.32 51.31 69.78 39.43 7.16 

Maro ... 904.30 24.36 33.35 32.76 5.23 

Ass ... 890.12 18.53 35.65 50.46 5.24 

Bow .,. 818.00 aO.OO 63.00 60.70 8.30 

Proportions of Solids and Water in different kinds of Milk. 

Woman. Cow. Goat. Ewe. Mare. Ass. Sow. 
Water 889.08 864.20 844.90 832.32 904.30 890.12 818.00 
Solids 110.92 135.80 165.10 167.68 95.70 109.88 182.00 



1000.00 1000.000 1000.00 1000.00 1000.00 1000.00 1000.00 

The sugar found in milk does not undergo alcoholic fermen- 
tation like ordinary sugar. Were the case different, the 
tender stomachs of infants would often be distended and 
pained by the evolution of carbonic acid gas during tho 
digestion of the milk which sometimes forms their sole food. 
Good cream contains about 35 per cent, of solid matter, of 
which about two- thirds consist of butter. Skim-milk contain! 
about half the amount of butter found in new milk, but in 
other respects it is nearly equal to the former. Whey con- 
tains all the sugar and saline matter, but very little of the 
other ingredients of the milk from which it is produced. 
There is very little nourishment in it. Buttermilk is new 
milk minus the fat. 

Butter consists of fatty and oily substances, casein, saline 
matter, and water. The fats vary from 70 to 95 per cent., 
the casein or cheesy matter from 3 to 8 per cent., the salino 
substances from a trace to 30 per cent., and the water from 
10 to 35 per cent. Good mild-cured butter coiil%Ki;^ %^ >^^ 



28 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

cent, of butter, 3 per cent, of casein, 2 per cent, of salt, and 
13 percent, of water. In some very good specimens of Irish 
butter I found the casein to form so small a proportion as 1 
per cent. The greater the proportion of casein, the less likely 
is the butter to keep sweet for any length of time. Casein, 
like most soft nitrogenous bodies, soon ferments and causes 
such substances as fat and starch — which alone are not liable 
to change — to enter also into a state of fermentation. The 
rancidity of butter is caused by alterations in its fatty ingre- 
dients, brought about by contact with the decomposing 
casein. Butter is a most valuable article of food, but as it 
contributes only to the nutrition of the adipose, or fatty tissue 
of the body, it is only a partial aliment. 

Cheese is essentially composed of the casein of milk, coa- 
gulated by the addition to that fluid of rennet or an acid. Its 
composition is very variable. The richest kinds, such as 
double Gloucester and Stilton, contain more butter than 
casein, in Cheddar the butter and casein are about equal in 
amount, whilst in Dutch and other poor kinds of cheese made 
from skim-milk the casein constitutes from 80 to 90 per 
cent, of the weight of the solid matters. The richer kinds 
of cheese are the most nutritious ; but on the whole this 
article is not, at its present price, an economical food. 

Eggs are valuable and by no means dear food. That of 
the common fowl weighs on the average a few grains less than 
2 ounces. Ten per cent, of its weight consists of shell, 20 per 
cent, of white^ and 70 of yolk. The white consists almost 
wholly of albumin. The yolk contains the fatty matters, 
which constitute about 12 per cent, of the weight of the egg* 
This food is very rich in nitrogenous matters ; hence it 
should be combined with food containing abundance of fats 
or starch. There is no important difference in the composi- 
tion of the eggs of the various domesticated birds which arc 
used as food. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 29 

Extract of meat (Liebig's extr actum carnis) is rapidly 
coming into general use as a convenient article for the pre- 
paration of soups. It is prepared by carefully evaporating 
the watery eltract of raw flesh to a paste. It contains no 
fat, fibrin, or gelatin, and but yery little, if any, albumin. It 
is very rich in creatin, creatinin, inosinic and lactic acids, and 
the saline ingredients of flesh. It is believed that its action 
upon the animal economy merely resembles that produced by 
tea, coffee, and alcohol; so that it cannot be considered equi- 
valent to the quantity of flesh from which it is obtained. A 
good extract of flesh contains from 50 to 60 per cent, of 
solid matter. Much of this article met with in commerce is 
very inferior ; but some samples which have come under my 
notice had an agreeable meat-like odour. The ^' Liebig Com- 
pany's" Extract is a very good preparation ; as is also that 
known as Tooth's Extract, imported by Messrs. Coleman 
& Co. Meat biscuits and lozenges, and similar preparations, 
are compounds of flesh extracts with flour, &c. 

The detailed composition of the more important animal 
foods is shown in the table at page 57. 



CHAPTER V. 

MINERAL FOOD. 

The food of animals consists chiefly of substances derived 
directly or indirectly from plants, and which are termed 
organic or organized. Mineral substances, although they 
may contain all the elements which form our bodies, cannot, 
as a general rule, minister to our nutrition. Our bones 
contain large quantitites of phosphate of lime (calcic phos- 
phate) ; but we cannot obtain from the mineral phosphate of 
lime materials wherewith to nourish our botTw^ii^. KxCvwv^^ 



50 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

I'Sontaia chalk, buttbey dot noteai lumps of chalk. The mineral 
^'Snbstanccs necessarj for the sustenance of oar bodies form 
integral and appnrently essentinl portions of our vegetable 
food. The only mineraU for which animals have an inatinc- 
tiTe longing or appetite are water and common ealt, which 
do not always esist in vegctahle foods in sufficient quantities 
to supply the wants of animals. Soda water, Vichy water, 
and similar liquids, are solutions of minerals ) but their use is 
coDdned to man, and they may be regarded rather as medi' 
cines tiian food. Iron is an lodispensable part of our bodies, 
and is supplied in our food ; but Bometimos we employ tbia 
metal in a mineral form as a remedy for certain diseases, in 
which, as is supposed, the iron of the blood is deficient in 
quantity. When cbildren suffer from the disease term 
rackitit or " rickets," it is believed that there is a deficiency 
of lime and phosphoric acid in their bones ; hence the appro- 
priate remedy is a miaeral containing phosphoric acid and 
lime. 

In a state of health animals exhibit no fondness for mine- 
ral foods, with the exception, as we have stated, of salt and 
waier. Salt ia a compound of the non-metallic element termed 
chlorine (well known for its bleaching and sanitary proper- 
ties) and a very light metal called sodium. Chlorine and 
another light metal, termed potassium, form in combination 
the salt named chloride of potassium. Now, boih chloride 
of sodium and chloride of potassium aie essential to animal 

Clifd i yet no animal would willingly partake of the latter ; 
wliiUt every living creature, if deprived of common salt in 
its food, would greedily devour that mineral in its pure state. 
The reason why animals have a natural fondness for salt, 
and not for chloride of potassium, admits of the following 
explanation : — Chlnride of potassium and other salts of potas- 
sium are certain to be found abundantly in every plant: no 
re^etgbJes, eicppi, jjerliaps, those of the very lowest order, 



^ 



Handy Book on Food and Diet 3 1 

could be developed without these salts. On the other hand, 
sodium does not appear to be essential to vegetable life, and 
it is often wholly wanting in the seeds and roots, which form 
the most important kinds of vegetable food. We find, then, 
that nature has endowed animals with an appetite for mine- 
ral sodium, because that substance is not always obtainable 
through the agency of plants. 

Salt and other saline matters are useful in causing the con- 
version of food into animal tissue. Dissolved in water, they 
constitute solutions which pass readily through the structures 
of the body, carrying with them the nutrient materials where- 
with the waste of the body is repaired. There is very little 
salt in the solid tissues ; but it forms nearly one-half of the 
weight of the saline matters of the blood. An adult re- 
quires daily from a quarter to half an ounce of salt. In 
barbarous ages it is said that persons were put to a painful 
death by confining them to a diet from which salt was ex- 
cluded. In certain parts of the world where the ordinary 
food used contains no salt that article acquires a high value. 
In parts of Africa a man will sell his child, even his wife, to 
procure supplies of this much-coveted article. 

Water forms a large proportion of our solid food ; but we 
use it also in a liquid state, either by itself, or as an ingre- 
dient of various beverages. 

Perfectly pure water is colourless, odourless, and trans- 
parent. It possesses neither flavour nor odour. Absolutely 
pure water never occurs naturally ; and it is very difficult 
to produce it even by artificial means. Indeed, even in the 
scientific chemist's laboratory it is seldom that distilled water 
can be obtained free from traces of organic matter, and it is 
never free from one or two percent, (by volume) of dissolved 
gases. For domestic purposes, absolutely pure water is not 
necessary, and as an article of drink it would be altogether 
unsuited, being insipid, and probably \vi^v^<fe^'OC!<j\^% ^xjn* 



I 82 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 



i 

^^^^H vbilat the presence of a little saline and eome gaseous mat- 
^^^^P lers is indispensoble, an excessive amount of the former and 
^^^^ peculiar kinds of the latter render water mora or less ud- 
W wholesome. Aa for ihe organic matter in water, from which, 

tL aa I have atatedfCTcn distilled waleris neverfree, its presence 

^^^H U often most undesirable, and isnever of the least advantoge. 
^^^H The purest natural water is rain water, though e?en this 
^^^B kind is often largely contaminated with dangerous organic 
^^ matters. When ooliecied after several wet days, it is gene- 
rally almost as pure as distilled waler of average quality; 
but the first showers that descend after a season of drought 
always yield a water containing nitric acid, ammonia, and, 
in general, sail, and organic matters of Tarious kinds. Cis- 
terns and barrels containing rain or other water should be 
carefully covered, otherwise objectionable matters are certain 
to get into them. 

The water of large lates is in general very soft, the 
amount of mineral matters being small ; next in the order 
of softness come river waters ; and lastly, those derived from 
springs and pumps. Of course, some well waters are very 
Boft and river waters very hard ; but, as a general rule, the 
three kinds of waters above named stand in the order in which 
I have placed them. 

The mineral constituents of a well water may be present 
in auch quantities, or they may he of such a nature, as to 
impart medicinal qualities to the fluid. Of these mineral 
waters I do not intend to speak, further than to express my 
regret that so many of our countrymen and women go to dis- 
tant lands to drink, or bathe in, mineral waters in no respect 
superior to those furnished by the springs of Ireland — those 
of Lisdoonvarna, county of Clare, for example. 

The ingredients of ordinary water may be arranged under 
three heads: — first, gaseous; second, mineral solids j third, 
rffanic matters. The gaseous matters in water are oxygen, 



1 



Handv Book on Food and Diet 33 

nitrogen, and carbonic acid, and, in impure waters, sulpha- 
retted hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen. The amount 
of oxygen varies from 1 to 5 or 6 cubic inches per gallon. 
Its proportion depends on various causes: for example, 
aquatic plants absorb carbonic acid, decompose it, and, retain- 
ing the carbon, exhale the other constituent, oxygen. In 
some river and lake water so much oxygen is produced in 
this way that bubbles of the ^as may be seen ascending 
through the water, and bursting upon its surface. Where 
much decomposable organic matter exists in water, thd oxy- 
gen is not abundant, and hence its scarcity is generally an 
indication of the impurity of the liquid. The proportion of 
nitrogen in water is, in general, about double that of oxygen ; 
whilst in the atmosphere nitrogen is four times more abun- 
dant than oxygen. One hundred volumes of water dissolve 
nearly 4 volumes of oxygen, whilst but 2 volumes of nitrogen 
are the maximum quantity dissolvable in the same amount 
of water. Were nitrogen as soluble in water as the vital 
gas, oxygen, fishes could not exist in their limpid element. 

Carbonic acid is the most abundant of the gases held in 
solution by water. Spring waters are«-the richest in this in- 
gredient, some of them, especially in the limestone and chalk 
formations, containing from 15 to 20 cubic inches per gallon 
of this gas. Waters in the granite and other primary rocks 
contain but little of this gas, and hence they have rather a 
flat flavour. On the other hand, very impure, hard waters 
very generally possess a pleasant flavour, owing to the large 
quantities of carbonic acid which they contain. It is the 
escape of this gas which causes the eflervescence when bottles 
of champagne and other '< sparkling" wines, beer, and aerated 
waters are uncorked. 

As the flavour of a water depends to a great extent upon 
the quantity of gaseous matter contained in it, distilled ^«M^^ ^ 

or water that has recently been boWa^ \a wi^^^Kvsy^'^^i^* ^ 



34 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

pleasant drink. Sometimes, however, it is neceasary to boil 
water in order to destroy dangerons organic matters, irheii 
it is likely to contain such. On cooling', the water is very 
flat ; but much of its original flavour may be restored to it by 
pouring it from one vessel into another and back again, re- 
peating the operation for twenty or thirty times, and allow- 
ing- the liquid to fall through a distance of two or three feet. 
There are about 4 parts of carbonic acid in every 10,000 
parts of atmospheric air, and from this source the water 
absorbs the gas whilst being poured from vessel into vessel. 
At sea, where distilled water is often naed as a drink on board 
I iteamers, it is aerated by means of atmospheric air forced 
I according to a plan devised by the lata Dr. Normandy. 
Sulphuretted hydrogen gas possesses a most ofieneive 
It id produced in large quantity by the decay of 
epgs, and it is noticeable wherever animals and vegetables 
and most of their structures are undergoing the proceae of 
decom position. It ia often found in stagnant waters, in 
which it may easily be recognised by the sense of smell. If 
this gas be abundant in water, the latter will cause a clear solu- 
liou of sugar of lead to become brown or black. The pre- 
sence of sulphuretted hydrogen gns in water is almost ahvaya 
a sign that there has been sewage contamination ; and I would 
strongly recommend every one vfhose pump or well 
affi>rd3 water having the faintest odour of rotten eggs not 
to use it without previous purification. I may, however, 
here remark that certain medicinal waters contain sulphu- 
retted hydrogen derived from a mineral, tiol an oTganie, 
source: but these waters occur in very few localities, and 
their composition is constant; whilst water contaiuing sul- 
phuretted hydrogen produced by decaying organic matter 
sometimes has hardly any odour, and at other times evolves 
» strong odour of the fetid gas. 
, Carburetted hydrogen is found \n TOSiTefe^ und stagnant 



^ 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet 35 

water, and in ditches, bog pools, and other places where much 
vegetable matter is likelj to accumulate in water. In ditches 
this gas may be noticed breaking in bubbles on the surface 
of the water. Farm animals are too often supplied with 
water containing this gas ; and there is little doubt but that 
some of the diseases from which they suffer are caused by 
the bad quality of the stagnant water which they are obliged 
to drink. 

Water possesses a high degree of solvent powers. An im- 
mense number of substances can be held in solution by this 
fluid. We find^ therefore, that drainage water always con- 
tains in solution certain mineral and organic substances 
(animal and vegetable bodies) more or less in a decayed state, 
besides — ^but not invariably — minute animals and vegetables. 
All these substances and organisms are derived from the air 
and soil through which the water passes. The nature and 
amount of the matters dissolved in water do not always 
depend upon the character of the geological formation of the 
district through which the water flows; but in general there 
is a decided influence exercised by rocks and soils on the 
water which flows through them. There are certain rock 
formations from which one may be almost absolutely certain 
to obtain good water; whilst, on the other hand, there are 
soils which seldom yield pure supplies of this liquid. 

The purest water is obtained from the primitive or oldest 
rocks — those in which there are no organic remains. In 
granite, gneiss, trap, porphyry, and clay slate formations 
the springs and rivers are, with rare exceptions, very pure, 
unless when tainted by oozings into them from sewers. 
When the rock is covered with a very scanty clothing of 
vegetation, and when the soil is altogether or nearly barren, 
or at least not cultivated, we may be almost perfectly satis- 
fied that the water flowing through or over it will be flt Ca^t 
domestic purposes. Where, ViOYie^et^ ^gc^x^NA> ^JiW«*^ ^^ 



36 Hamly Book on Food and Diet. 

other roi^ks of that class constitute the rock formation of a 
very populous diatrict — for example, the site of a town — tho 
wells in it maj be of the most dangerous character. When 
we take into account the geological formation of a district 
as influencing the quality of its drainage water, we must bear 
in mind that the nature of the rock is but one condition in 
determining the purity or the impurity of the water. The 
drainage water in a primary rock district may take up only 
harmless quantities of solid substances from the rock itself, 
but it may at the same time be largely tainted by the effete 
matters thrown out from human habitations. 

The water obtained fi'ora primary rocka contains in general 
from two to eight grains of solid matter per imperial gallon 
(70,000 grains) of water. There are two distinct classes of 
substances dissolved in water — the one mineral and incom- 
bustible, the other organic and combustible. In waters de- 
rived from the primitive rocka the amount of organic matter 
varies from half a grain to 2^ grains per gallon ; hut being 
generally peaty matter, it is perfectly innocuona. The 
mineral ingredients of water in primary rock formations are 
chiefly salts of sodium and potassium ( the proportions of 
earthy (lime and magnesia) salts are usually very small. 

The water in limestone districts and chalk is generally 
"hard," and not well adapted for detergent purposes. It 
seldom contains less than 13 grains of solids per gallon ; 
whilst it often includes from 100 to 150 grains of solids per 
gallon. Someiimes the waters derived from the limestone 
rocks admit of being softened by boiling them j that is, at a 
boiling temperature their earthy ingredients are thrown 
down from solution. On the other hand, those waters 
occa.'ionally contain gypsum and other salts of lime as well 
as tboscof magnesia, which, being soluble in boiling water, 
are not precipitated at a high temperature. These waters 
are perwaneniiy hard. The proportion of organic matter 



\ 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 37 

is not in general very great in tbese waters; very often 
it is little more than one grain per gallon. Very hard 
waters are not at all suitable for domestic purposes. Thej 
are the worst kind that could be used for cooking vegetables, 
and infusing tea and coffee. Thej have, even in summer, 
a low temperature ; and containing in general large quanti- 
ties of carbonic acid (the gas that causes the sparkling appear- 
ance and some other admired properties of champagne and 
other beverages), thej are usually pleasant to the taste. 
Nevertheless, I know of many instances where these very 
hard, though well- flavoured, waters produced various dis- 
eases of the digestive organs. 

Limestone waters are the most common kind met with in 
Ireland. They leave thick incrustations in boilers and 
kettles, and when very hard they should not be used, unless 
in combination with rain or soft water derived from lakes or 
rivers. In the city of Dublin there are numerous wells and 
pumps, the water from which contains from 25 to 200 
grains of solids — chiefly lime and magnesia salts — per gallon* 
Hardly five per cent, of these wells and pumps afford sup- 
plies of wholesome water. 

The waters from stiff clays are sometimes very impure, 
chiefly owing to the presence of organic and other matters 
held in a state of suspension. The amount of solid matter in 
solution is in general very small — from two to eight grains 
per gallon. In stiff clays very few springs exist ; but they 
3rield abundance of surface water, and consequently super- 
ficial wells may be easily made in them. The water so 
obtained should always be filtered, were it even only through 
a layer of sand. 

Gravel and loose, sandy soils sometimes yield pure water, 
but far more frequently the reverse is the case. In towns 
and other populous localities the wells in gravel often con- 
tains enormous proportions of organic matter. Still ^<ve.%i^ 



38 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

is the superficial well water obtained from soft Bandatone 
rocke, and worst of all is the fluid furnished by alluvial and 
marshy soils. In these waters the proportion of organic 
matter is very often ao large as to prove most injurious to 
the heolth of those who ilrink it. Stagnant waters are rarely 
free from an exceaa of organic matter, and they teem with 
low forma of animal and vegetable life. Running water ia 
not always pure ; but even when it is tainted by sewage, the 
impuritiea are very soon oxidised. Aa a rule, river water is 
greatly to be preferred to stagnant water, except in the case 
of large lakes. Wells, as a general rule, do not furnish as 
pure a Suid ag that afToi'ded by rivers, when the latter is not 
contaminated by town or village sewage. Very deep welts 
seldom contain much organic matter, and in that respect 
their watera are much auperior to those yielded by superficial 
wells ; the latter, however, are generally richer in diasolved 
gasea, and hence are better flavoured. 

A large quantity of salt in water indicates the probability 
of aewerage impuritiea. Waters containing ralher large 
quantities of lime and magnesia are termed hard, hecauae it 
is difficult to use them for washing our bodies or clothes. 
The reason of thia is, that the fats in soap unite with the 
earths in the water, and form curds, or insoluble soapa. Soft 
water does not contain earthy matters, and it is the most 
economical to use for detergent purposes. When the hard- 
ness of water is due to the presence of gypsum or sulphate 
of magnesia (Epsom salts), the addition of washing soda 
softens it, because it throws down, or renders insoluble, the 
earthy salta. Water rendered hard hy the presence of chalk 
(the raoal usual cause of hardness) may be aoftened by the 
addition of lime water. The cbalk is held in solution by 
means of free carbonic acid gas ; but when lime ia added, the 
gas and the earth unite, and furm more chalk, which, together 
ufuJi the chalk oi-iginaliy pre»ent, become insoluble or — lo 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet 39 

use a chemical term — precipitated. If too much lime be 
added, a portion will remain in solution, and will confer upon 
the water an unpleasant flavour. A few experiments suffice, 
however, to determine the proper proportion of lime water. 
Lime water is prepared by stirring a few lumps of " burned" 
lime in a cask of water. In a few hours a clear liquid is ob- 
tained, which should be preserved, as far as practicable, from 
contact with the air. 

Dr. Letheby considers that very soft water is not so whole- 
some as water containing from 20 to 30 grains of earthy salts 
per gallon. He thinks that the lime contained in hard water 
is useful in nourishing the bony tissues. It is not, however, 
likely that the few grains of lime contained in the water 
which we drink could contribute, at least in any important 
manner, to the nutrition of our bodies. 

The presence of decided quantities of nitric acid and 
nitrous acid (combined with different metals), ammonia, and 
alb\iminous bodies in water indicates sewage contamination. 
Such water should not be drank ; or, if there is no choice, it 
should be boiled and filtered through animal charcoal. Ty- 
phoid fever, cholera, and other diseases are often conveyed 
through the medium of bad water. Well wat«r in towns is 
very likely to contain animal impurities. I would, therefore, 
strongly recommend those who drink the water dispensed 
from town pumps to filter it first. Hard water may be safely 
stored in leaden cisterns ; but soft water cannot, for it dis- 
solves lead. An alloy of 96 parts of lead and 4 of tin is not 
sensibly affected by soft water. By far the best chemical 
purifier of water is the invaluable liquid termed Gondy's 
Solution. It is to be regretted that it is not more frequently 
employed to preserve the purity of water in ships. 



40 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 



CHAPTER VI. 

STIMULANTS AND CONDIMENTS. 

Tea, coffee, and cocoa form a small but highly important 
group of foods, which, taken as a whole, are used almost 
throughout the whole world. Tea and coffee contain an 
identical active principle, termed thein^ or eaffein ; and theo- 
bromin, the actiTe principle of cocoa, is closely related to 
thein. 

The dried leaves of the tea plant, which constitute the 
" tea" of commerce, vary very much in composition. 

Average centesimal composition of black tea — 



Water 


• • • 


• • 


6 


Thein 


• • • 


••• 


2-6 


Casein 


••• 


... 


14-6 


6am 


••• 


«*• 


18-0 


Sngar ... 


••• 


• • • 


3 


Starch 


•• 


••• 


trace 


Tannin 


••• 


••• 


26-3 


Aromatic, or volatile oil 


• • • 


••• 


0-7 


Fats 


.•• 


• • • 


4 


Cellalose, or fibre 


«• • 


• • 


210 


Ash (mineral substances) 


••• 


••• 
• 


6-0 



100-0 

Tea, if good, yields about one-third of its weight to 
the action of hot water. Its astringency is owing to the 
large quantity of tannin, or tannic acid which it contains. It 
18 not probable that there is any nutriment in tannin, nor is 
it ascertained that it contributes to produce the well-known 
exhilarating effects of tea. It is, however, certain that it is 
the cause of the constipating property which tea possesses, 
and which is one of the very few bad qualities of that favourite 
stimulant. The amount of albuminous matter is consider- 
£jb/e^ bat as it yields very slightly to the solvent action of 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 4 1 

hot water, it remains in the so-called exhausted tea leaves. 
The Tartars make use of nearly all the nutriment contained 
in tea, because thej reduce it to powder and exhaust it with 
alkaline solutions. A little washing soda added to the water 
in which tea is infused greatly increases the amoant of ex- 
tract. The volatile oil confers on teas their characteristic 
flavour and odour. Thein is a highly nitrogenous substance: 
to it the stimulating effects of tea are chiefly due. It is 
rather curious that a spoonful of fine ** gunpowder" tea 
weighs as much as two spoonfuls of flowery Pekoe. Four 
spoonfuls of fine Congou, five and a-half of flowery Pekoe, 
or two of fine gunpowder suffice to make a pint of infusion 
which will contain about one- eighth of an ounce of solid 
matter. The softer water is, the greater is its solvent power 
upon tea and coffee. Water, however, of a moderate degree 
of hardness makes excellent tea. A pint of boiling water 
extracts nearly \ ounce from an ounce of good tea or coffee. 
Neither tea nor coffee should be boiled, but merely infused 
in boiling water, and they should be drawn for at least fif- 
teen minutes. When very hard water is used for the pur- 
pose of infusing either tea or coffee, half an hour will not be 
too long to allow the process to go on. A few grains of soda 
may be added, but the slightest excess of this salt greatly 
injures the flavour of the infusion. 

The properties of coffee are due to caffein, a volatile oil. 
and an astringent substance closely resembling tannic acid. 
The berries when roasted should have a light brown colour. 
Coffee is often injured by excessive roasting. Highly heated 
steam is now successfully used for the purpose of partially 
carbonizing the berries, without injuring their flavour. 
Coffee loses from 15 to 20 per cent, in weight and increases 
30 per cent, in bulk by being roasted. Essence of coffee is 
prepared by mixing burnt sugar with a highly concen- 
trated infusion of the berries. Extract of chicory is some- 



\ 



42 Handy Book on Food and DieL 

times added ; bat this ingredient renders coffee too astrin- 
gent. 

According to Pajen, the coffee berry has the following 
composition : — 

Water . . ... ... ... 12.000 

Woody tissue ... . . 34.000 

Fixed fattj matters ... ... 10 to la 000 

Gum, sugar, and vegetable acid ... ... 15.600 

Nitrogenous matter allied to legumin (Tegetable 

casein) ... ... ... 13*0<10 

Free caffein ... ... ... 0*800 

Compound of caffein with potash ... 3*5 to 5*000 

Solid fatty essence ... .,. ... 0*003 

Aromatic essential oil .. ... OOOl 

Saline matters ... ... ^. 6*697 



100.000 
Cocoa contains about l^ per cent, of theobromin, 50 per 
cent, of a solid fat, or oil called cocoa butter, and from 22 to 
25 per cent, of albumin, starch, gum, sugar, and fibre. Cho- 
colate is a mixture of cocoa with sugar : vanilla and similar 
substances are sometimes added as flavouring adjuncts. 
Some preparations of cocoa are to a great extent free from 
the fatty ingredients of the nut. Schweitzer's Cocoatina is a 
very nice preparation of cocoa, as it is quite free from fatty 
matters, and is, therefore, suited for dyspeptics. The nut 
separated from its husk and roasted constitutes the cocoa nibs 
of the grocer. Prepared cocoa or chocolate containing starch 
or flour requires to be boiled, but the best varieties of this 
article contain sugar, and require but the addition of hot 
water to convert them into a nutritious beverage. 

Many experiments have been made and much has been 
written relative to the actionof tea and coffee upon the animal 
economy. Some authorities state that they retard the waste 
of tissue, without diminishing the motions of the body ; but 
that is not likely to be the case, for the work done by the body 
is proportionate to the quantity of tissue or food which is 
deaojnposed within it. Dr. E. Smith believes that tea pro- 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 43 

motes the metamorphosis, or change of tissue, instead of 
retarding it — a view to which I subscribe. We certainly 
feel more disposed to activity than to quiescence after taking 
a cup of strong tea. It is very likely that tea and coffee 
cause a more perfect digestion or assimilation of food ; and 
in this way we may account for the fact, as alleged, ithat tea 
and coffee are partial substitutes for food. If they enable 
us to extract more nutriment from our food than it ordinarily 
yields, they certainly contribute to the nutrition of our 
bodies. 

According to Dr. £. Smith, tea acts favourably upon 
the skin, causing increased perspiration, whilst coffee dimi* 
Dishes the perspiration and produces a constipatory effect. 
There is no doubt but that tea stimulates and invigorates 
the system ; and that under its cheering influences we be- 
come more animated and inspirited, if this beverage be 
taken in excess the imagination is excited, the heart's action 
is greatly increased, there is often a painful or anxious feeling 
experienced, and the disposition to sleep at the proper time 
is greatly lessened. The best effects of tea are produced by 
its use in moderate quantities and of moderate strength. 
The practice of taking very strong tea to banish sleep is a 
very bad one. The best time to take tea is about from one 
to two hours after dinner, when it generally stimulates the 
flagging energies of the digestive organs. It is a grateful 
beverage in the morning ; but it should be taken in modera- 
tion. It is not suitable at luncheon or dinner. To the aged, 
tea possesses many recommendations ; but in childhood, nei- 
ther it nor coffee is a desirable beverage. The health of very 
young children is often injured by the use of tea and coffee. 
I have noticed that persons of dark complexions are fonder 
of tea than those whose fair skin and hair, light eyes, and 
corpulent persons betray their leuco-phlegmatic tempera- 
ment. With the latter persons, it often disagrees. ^rQSab<| 



44 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

person?, with what doctors term litkic acid diathent, are 
often beDeiited bj weak tea used without sugar. 

Alcohol is a stimulant which poaaesses leia of the cbarac- 
teristics of true food than tea and coffee ; for, whilst the 
latter really eootain some matters which are capable of form- 
ing' animal tissue, there is nothing in alcohol with which any 
part of the body could be nourished. At oue time it was be- 
lieved that food could be of no use to the animal economy, 
except for the formation of flesh and other tissues j and 
according to that view, it would be vain to ascribe any nutri- 
tious properties to alcohol. It is now, however, very gene- 
rally believed that food may be utilized in the body without 
being converted into any of its atmcturcs. If this view be 
the true one, we can readily understand that alcohol might, 
by being oxidized, or burned in the blood, produce animal 
heat, or motive power. It has been alleged that the alcohol 
introduced into the body is wholly thrown off from it un- 
changed ; but the inaccuracy of this statement has been de- 
monstrated by liie results of Thudichum's recent experiments. 
When taken in very moderate quantities, alcohol, I have no 
doubt, performs two of the functions of food — namely, the 
production of animal heat and of force. It is, however, by 
far the most costly Ibod in common use, and, eicepl in cer- 
tain forms of disease, it is clearly a very expensive luxury. 
I believe that, without exception, healthy pei'sons do not 
require alcohol in any form ; and in the case of children, its 
use is seldom beneficial, and generally injurious. Small 
quantities of it are certainly utilized in the system ; 
but of the amounts usually taken at and aAer meals, the 
larger proportion subserves no useful purpose, and probably 
passes in great part unchanged from the body. In certain 
diseases, where there ia rapid wasting of the body, and no 
capability of using sufficient food to replace the worn-out 
tissue, d/coA(>i IS often invaluable. Under sue 



1 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 45 

it retards the wasting of tissue, because it supplies the heat 
and energy which otherwise would have to be supplied at 
the expense of portions of the body. Dr. £. Smith states 
that alcohol lessens the actirity of the muscles which are 
under our control ; but that it increases the action of the 
involuntary muscles, such as the heart and lungs. Ulti- 
mately the action of alcohol lowers the vitality of the heart 
and other important organs, and checks the processes of di- 
gestion. It appears strange — but it is, nevertheless, true — 
that almost all competent observers assert that alcohol is a 
bad preventive against the effect of extreme cold. The 
experience of Arctic explorers clearly proves that in the icy 
regions of the North, fatty foods, and not alcohol, must be 
relied upon to maintain the necessary heat of the body. It 
cannot be denied that most persons find in some one of the 
many alcoholic drinks an agreeable bevera°;e ; and if they 
are used in moderations^ at suitable times, and in a pure state, 
they certainly contribute greatly to the pleasures of the table 
without injuring the health. 

Alcohol appears to produce a greater intoxicating effect 
when taken in the form of strong spirits, and least when 
drank as a constituent of such wines as claret and hock. 
Raw spirits should never be taken. If we decide upon tak- 
ing, say, one glass of brandy or whiskey each day, we should 
accustom ourselves to mix it with three glasses of water. 

The percentage of alcohol in different liquids is shown 
in the following table : — 



Rum 
Whiskey 
Brandy (British) 
French brandy 
Qin ... ••• 
Port wine 
Sherry wine ... 
Ronssillon ... 
Claret ... 

Hungarian wines 



Percentage of Alcohol. 
60 to 76 



54 
60 
60 
48 
14 
14 
11 
9 
9 



9) 



60 
60 
65 
58 
24 
27 
16 
14 
15 



Percentage of Alcohol. 

Chablis and Sauteme 8 „ 12 

Rhine wines 7 

Champagne 7 

Burgundy 8 

Moselle 8 

^^le ... •• I J.. o 

Cider ... ... ... 5 

Porter 4 

■oeer ... ^ ... a 






^^ 



16 

13 

12 

13 

9 

9 

7 

4 



46 Handy Booh on Food and IJiet. 

In the stronger spirUs there is little, save alcohol, which 
Kcts as food. They often contain a little added sugar, and 
always small quantities of oily substances, and iDthera, which 
confer upon each hind ila characteristic odour, and flavour. 
Kutu is stated to be the most stimulative of the spirits, per- 
haps because it is the strongest. It contains a sensible pro- 
portion of the highly odorous butyric ether. Gin pos- 
sesses diuretic properties in virtue of a peculiar oil (that of 
juniper) which it contains, and which acts upon the kidneys. 
French brandy is usually the kind of strong spirit used for 
medicinal purposes; but unless the article is unquestiooably 
pure, good old whiskey is preteruhle. Fouse! oil is abundant 
in fresh spirits prepared from corn, and is the chief cause of 
the unpleasant flavour and odour of new whiskey. 

Wines contain, beside alcohol, variable quantities of fruit 
■ugar, albuminous bodies, vegetable acids, and other matters. 
The sugar varies from a mere trace to '•!5 grains per ounce of 
480 grams. Mazanilla and Amontillado contain only from 
1 to 8 grains per ounce; Marsala and Madeira, 3 to 35 grains ; 
Poi't, 15 to35grainB;Cbampagne,fromlOto40(aversge about 
28) grains. Sugar is added to sparkling Champagne and 
Mosellu. In Claret, Burgundy, and Hock there is little or no 
' sugar. According to Bence Jones, wines stand, with respect to 
acidity, in the following order, those most acid being placed 
first: — Sherry, Port, Champagne, Claret, Madeira, Burgundy, 
Rhine wine. Moselle. The albuminous matters in wine 
are unimportant. The flavour and odour are in great part 
due to peculiar substances termed compound icthers, of which 
thei'e appear to exist a large number. The salts consist of 
cream of tartar, and other compounds of potassium, tartrate 
of lime (calcic tartrate), salt, and some other matters, making 
in all about 1 grain )>er ounce of wine. The matter obtained 
by evaporating an ounce of wine to dryness weighs from 



1 



J 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet Al 

Beer, ale, and porter contain (excluding alcohol) more 
nutriment than wine. Their sugar, dextrin, and albuminous 
matter are capable of nourishing the tissues, their alcohol 
produces heat and force, and their lupilin, or bitter principle 
(derived from hops) acts as a tonic and stomachic. The phy- 
siological action of these beverages strongly resembles that of 
alcohol. When taken in excessive quantities they are apt 
to produce plethora^ or fulness of blood. Draught porter 
(and probably ale, too) is, especially for dyspeptics, prefer- 
able to the bottled liquid. The eaccharine nature of beer 
renders it unsuitable to those suffering from certain gouty 
and bilious affections ; but in the dearer kinds of bitter ale 
the proportion of sugar is certainly very small, and their 
bitter principles impart to them semi-medicinal qualities. 
Bass's Burton ale and Younger's Edinburgh ale are amongst 
the most wholesome malt liquors in general use. 

Condiments consist of sugar, salt, vinegar, spices, and 
other substances of strong flavour, used to impart piquancy 
to the staple foods. They stimulate the appetite, cause an 
increased flow of saliva, and, in some instances, act as 
stomachics. Except salt and sugar, children rarely require 
condiments, as their appetites are naturally excellent. In 
middle and old age the warm condiments, such as mustard 
and pepper, are often found valuable aids to digestion. 
Vinegar dissolves albuminous substances, with the exception 
of casein ; it, therefore, is a good addition to salads and some 
kinds of flshes. Used very largely, it may attack the mus- 
cular tissues, and cause a dangerous wasting of the body ; 
but it must be admitted that many people use vinegar ia 
rather large quantities, and yet remain fat and strong. It is 
an unfortunate circumstance that manufacturers are allowed 
by law to add 0.1 per cent, of oil of vitriol to vinegar — an 
unnecessary and sometimes an undesirable addition. ( 
vitriol often contains arsenic. 



48 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 



CHAPTER VII. 

ADULTERATION OF FOOD. 

The practice of food adulteration ia a serious crime, for in 
innny instances it not only roba the purchaser of the frau- 
dulent article of his money, but it maj also injure his health 
and even endanger his life. The honest trader, too, has to 
contend with unfair competition from those who, by vending 
spurious articles, are able to offer them at prices lower than 
the current rates. The act for the prevention of food adul- 
teration, passed in 186D, has almost proved n dead letter; 
but a much more stringent and practicable measure was in- 
troduced in the last session of parliament, and will pro- 
bably be made a law at the next session of the legislature. 

Bread ia adulterated withrice,hy which the loaves are made 
to absorb more water; with lime water to neutralize the 
acidity of bad flour; with alom to whiten the colour of 
inferior flour. If thare be a decided quantity of aium pre- 
sent, a slice of the bread will acquire a purple colour when 
dipped in an infusion of logwood. Potatoes are used in 
making bread, but more for the purpose of hastening the 
process of fermentation than as an adulterant. Cheaper 
flours than those obtained from wheat are used, but very 
rarely, as adulterants. Flour is not much adulterated, and 
nhen it is, generally with nothing worse than cheap kinds 
of rice flour. A little alum ia occasionally found in wheat 
flour. Gypsum, chalk, pondered flints, end while clay have 
been delected in bolli flour and bread ; but very seldom in 
these countries, Kice flour is very commonly adulterated 
with a white earthy substance, termed terra alba. I have 

ind so much bs 35 per cent, of this njatter in rice flour 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 49 

GoM to bakers. Rice flour EidultBrated in this wny '\s^ I 
presume and hope, chiefly used for making paste. Arrow- 
root, which is a costly variety of starch, is adulterated witli 
cheaper starches obtained from potatoes aad other commoa 
Tegetobies. Sorae specimens of starch, sold as pure Ber- 
muda arrowroot, do not contain a particle of that substance. 
Butter is adulterated with excessivequiin titles of water and 
■alt. It is sometimea mixed with flour,lard, suet, and turnips; 
in cold weather, a snowball has often been found in the 
centre of a roll of so-called fresh butter 1 Persons who go 
from door to door offering butter for sale almost invariably 
vend an adulterated article. Salted butter is well washed to 
free it from saline matter, mised with a little milk, and sold 
as fresh butter. This is known to the initiated under the 
name of re-made butter; and by ingenious manipulation 
from 20 to 35 per cent, of water is often incorporated with 
iL No one should purchase extremely salted butter. A 
dealer was convicted before the Lord Mayor of Dublin for 
sellinj^ butter which, as I proved, contained 33 per cent, of 
salt. The rich, jelloiv colour of butter is sometimes natural; 
but is often produced by the vegetable pigment, termed 
annato. Cheese is adulterated with starch or flour. A drop 
of lincture of iodine produces a blue stain on cheese if starch 
be present. Copper and even arsenic have been found 
several times, but evidently not as inteotional adulterants. 
Hilk, in towns, is almost invariably adulterated with, on the 
average, 33 per cent, of water. I bave examined about 500 
samples of milk in my capacity of Analyst for the City of 
Dublin, in not one of which did I find any adulterant save 
water, and, but very rarely, a little sugar and salt. I have 
found BO much as 70 per cent, of added water in milk; 
100 parts of milk, evaporated to dryness, leave at least 12 
parts of solid residue. If there be only II parts, then ih'* 
i 8 per cent, of water; iC ly ijas\a, NSi ■• 



50 Handy Bouh on Food and Diet. 

cent, of water, and so on. Lactometera are often very fal- 
lacious in their indications. 

In raw sugar, little insects {acari) and various natural 
impurities are generally present; but !□ tlie refined article 
we very rarely find any foreign matters. Only one case of 
intentional adulteration (with flour) baa come uuder my 

Tea is sometimes adulterated with tea leaves which have 
been exhausted of their soluble matter, and dried : catechu, 
gum, and Btarcb are added to the eshausled leaves. Spurious 
tea of this kind is, of course, almost destitute of Savour. 
Green teas oftenowe theircolour to " facings" of Prussian blue, 
turmeric, and clay. Black lead is often used to glaze black 
tea. Gnffee is generally adulterated with chicory ; wheat 
and other grains, raspings of bread, beans, burnt sugar, 
8nd various other articles, are occasionally mixed with it 
in proportions varying from 10 to 60 per cent. Even chicory, 
the adulterant, is itself sophisticated, and, as alleged, with 
such materials as seeds, acorns, mangel-nurtzel, and baked 
liver of the horse! It may be btated, with almost absolute 
certainty, that coffee sold at less than Is. 8d. per lb. is adul- 
terated. Many persons believe that chicory is a wholesome 
addition to coffee ( but there is really no evidence to justify 
such an opinion. Theanalysisof chicory shows that it contains 
no active principle like caffein. The continued use of it 
is likely to produce dyspepsia, for the root contains an ex- 
cessive proportion of astringent matter, The numerous 
foreign substances found in coffee are generally introduced 
into it through the medium of the highly adulterated chicory 
sold to the grocers. Cocoa and chocolate are adulterated 
with sugar, starch, and flour. Other forms of adulteration 
are rare. 

Pickles when very green are almost certain to contain 
copper, and this metal is sometimes found, but happily in 



Randy Book on Food and Dut. 51 

mmnte quantities, in vinegar. A penknife blade left for a 
few hours in vinegar or any other liquid containing copper 
will become coated with that metal. Mustard is almost in- 
variably adulterated with flour and even with plaster of 
' Paris. Of several specimens which I examined some time 
ago, Colman's was the only kind which I found abso- 
lutely pure. Ground pepper is mixed with linseed, mustard, 
and rice and other grains. 

Wines are adulterated with infusions of various kinds of 
wood and bark containing colouring and astringent principles. 
Lime, salts, alum, distilled spirits, and tannin are but ex- 
amples of the numerous adulterants of wine. Litharge (a 
compound of lead) is said to be employed to correct the 
acidity of wine. A large proportion of the wines used in 
these countries is genuine, and purity is not confined to the 
high-priced articles. Much of the so-called adulterated wine 
is perfectly genuine, but of very inferior natural qualities. 
French brandy is readily obtained in these countries at re- 
spectable establishments, and at fair prices. Under the 
name of brandy, com spirit, mixed with flavouring matters, 
is often sold. Whiskey is rarely adulterated with anything 
worse than water ; but it is often sold when too fresh, and is 
then popularly supposed to eontain bluestone or oil of vitrioL 
Gin is liable to be adulterated with capsicums and oil of 
bitter almonds ; and, it is stated, with sulphuric acid. Beer, 
ale, and porter are in general quite pure ; but the following 
unnecessary substances have been detected in them by various 
chemists : — Oil of vitriol, lime, soda, salt, alum, pepper, cap- 
sicums, grains of paradise, gentian, quassia, and chicory. It 
was at one time believed that strychnine was employed to 
impart a bitter flavour to ale, but I believe such a dangerous 
adulteration never existed. Inferior ales and porters are 
often sold as Bass' ale and Guinness' stout. 

Sugar confectionary — more especially the cheai^ec kivA^ — 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 



52 

is sometimes adulterated witli whiting, ttrra alba (a white 
ulaj), and plaster of Parifl ; knd it ia coloured with the poi- 
sonous jellow and orange cbromate of lead, Prussian blue, 
and TermillioD, instead of harmless vegetable pigments. A 
green compound of arsenic and copper was formertj much 
employed in colouring confectionery, but owing to the nume- 
rous cases of illness and death which resulted from the prac- 
tice, this article ia now rarely, if ever, employed, I have 
recently exajnined a large number of specimens of coloured 
confectionary on sale in Dublin. In most cases those coloured 
yellow contained chr ornate of lead; much more rarely the 
red confectionary owed its tint to vermillion (sulphide of 
mercury). I would recommend the use of colourless con- 
fectionary in preference to the coloured, howerer inriting the 
Bfpearance of the latter may be. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DISEASED MEAT. 

'hs desh of animals affected with parasitic and other forms 

r of disease is more or leas unwholesome, and is often highly 

dangerous to the health, and even life, of those who eat it. 

The cause of many deaths has been clearly traced to the use 

of diseased meat ; and cases of illness from this source come 

frequently under my observation. In Dublin, from 40,000 

to 50,000 lbs. of diseased and otherwise unsound animal 

food are >eiied and confiscated monthly ; but I fear that in 

but very few towns in the United Kingdom is there any 

organized ayatem of food inspection, in London and Dublin 

the vendors of diseased meat are frequently punished by 

^^j?fjsonment or heavy £nes. 



i 



Handy Book on Food and Diet 53 

The bodies of animals are often inhabited bj minute 
creatures, termed entozoa (singular, entozoon), or internal 
parasites. The most formidable of these pests is probably 
the Trichina spiralis^ which is found in various species of 
animals, but chiefly in the pig. The trichina is a kind of 
worm about the thirtieth of an inch in length. It is 
generally found coiled up in a little vessel, or cyst, which is 
chiefly formed of chalk. When flesh containing these cysts 
is eaten, the juices of the stomach dissolve the chalk, and 
set free its dangerous prisoner, which immediately begins 
to wander through the body and to multiply its species. 
During the passage of trichinae through the muscles, the 
most excruciating pains are experienced, and death is often 
the result. Two cases of trichinae in the human subject 
have come under my own observation in Dublin ; but I 
have never detected these dangerous parasites in Irish pork or 
bacon, though I have repeatedly sought for them. Several out- 
breaks of trichiniasis — as the disease produced by this worm 
is termed — have occurred in Germany. In Hettstadt, a 
small town in Saxony, one trichiniferous pig infected 168 
persons, of whom 28 died. 

Measles in the pig is caused by little worms termed Cystic 
cerci celluiosoe^ which take up their abode in the animal's 
flesh, and are found chiefly in the spaces between the mus- 
cular fibres. They raise little prominences under the skin, 
which symptom, together with a yellow speck in the angle 
of the eye, and in general a peculiar thickness of the neck 
and thinness of the loins, easily enable the measly pig to be 
detected. The worms are found in all the muscles, and they 
are usually very numerous in the under part of the tongue. 
The measle worm is the immature condition of the tape- 
worm {Tcenium solium) j and the use of measly pork is pro- 
bably a common cause of the presence of the latter parasite 
in the human subject. In some countries the use of moi 



5-4 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

pork is strictly proliihited by ft special law, A smaller 
species of measle worm is found in the fksh of the ox, and 
when it passes from thence into the body of man it is deve- 
loped into the common species of tape-worm, termed Treiiia 
mediocanellata. The "rot" in sheep and oxen is the result 
of the ravagas of large parasites popularly called ftiikes, but 
in scientiSc language termed DistomiE hepaticie ; they re- 
side in the liver. It is probable that they rarely find their 
way from the lower animals into man ; at leaat, they are 
not often detected in the human liver. 

The flesh of animals affected by such diseases as blackleg, 
infectious lung distemper, or pleuro- pneumonia, and small- 
pox can hardly be perfectly wholesome food j but when the 
disease is in an advanced stage there can be little doubt 
as to its dangerous properties. In pleuro-pneumonia the 
weight of the lungs often increases from about 10 or 12 lbs. 
ta more than 70 lbs, weight, and they become loaded with 
purulent matter. Surely the flesh of animals whose lungs — 
the great purifying organ of the blood — are in such a state 
could not form wholesome food! 

Cooking destroys the parasites contained in flesh, but the 
process must be thoroughly carried out. Underdone, or red 
flesh has often been found to contain living parasites- 
To be certain that our food is thoroughly cooked, we should 
lee that it is served to us " smoking hot." Thorough cook- 
ing, too, in all probability renders the flesh of animals affected 
with such diseases as pleuro-pneumoaia far less dangerous. 

Game is often eaten when in a semi, or nearly semi, putrid 
state ; but there are numerous instances on reeord which 
prove that tainted meat is liable to produce illness, and even 
death. Every one is aware of the poisonous qualities nf 
sliile fish. Mouldy and rancid foods, whether animal or 
vegetable, are very likely to produce nausea and diarrhffia. 
Scores of people have died from eating rausty sausages. 



1 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 55 

The following are some of the characteristics of good 
meat : — Pale red colour, faint, and not disagreeable odour, 
firmness a few hours after death. Diseased meat remains 
softy and exudes waterj matter, especially from the mem- 
brane investing the fat ; its odour is almost invariably un- 
pleasant, and sometimes is actually loathsome. Its colour 
is at first very bright pink (from the inflammatory state of 
the blood difiused through it) ; but after a short time it be- 
comes dark. Of course, when the blood is not removed from 
the carcass, the flesh from the first is purplish, very dusky, 
or blackish red. In very advanced stages of disease the flesh 
sometimes becomes neutral or alkaline soon after death. 
Healthy flesh is always decidedly acid. 

The milk of cows suflering from foot-and-mouth disease 
is liable to produce ulcers in the mouths of those who make 
use of it. It is stated that pigs fed upon it have died in 
oonsequence of its poisonous qualities. Foot-and-mouth 
disease generally assumes an epidemic, or rather epizootic, 
form, and gradually subsides. It is not commonly present 
amongst our dairy herds. 



CHAPTER IX. 

NUTRITIVE VALUE OF FOODS. 
The commercial value and the nutritive value of foods are 
very diflerent things. A shilling's worth of one kind of food 
may contain more actual nutriment than is present in a 
pound's worth of another variety. High priced foods owe 
their value to the superiority of their flavour, and, but to a 
less extent, to their rarity. Amongst the ordinary foods of 
the people there are, however, considerable variations in 
their nutritive properties j and chemists and physiologists 
are endeavouring to determine which are the animal and 
vegetable substances that jield the largest amount of dv^^< 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 



tible nutriment at the Hmalleat cost. The solution of 
problem is hampered with many difflcultiea, "Wt may, 
oourae, analyse the difForeot foods, and ascertain which of 
them contain the greatest quantitiej of albuminous matters, 
fats, and other alimental principles; but until we know 
whether or not these ingredients are capable of being assi- 
milated, the mere percentages of albuminoids and carbo- 
hydrates in foods do not strictly represent their actual nutri- 
mental value. One mode of estimating the value of food 
consists in determining the amount of heat whieh it gives off 
when burned. Heat is the equivalent of motive power; 
and, therefore, the food which evolves the most heat is best 
capable of supplying animal heat and motive power. It 
must, however, be borne in mind that unless food is com- 
pletely digested and utilized in the animal economy, its full 
thermotie, or heat-producing power will not be rendered 
available. Cellulose is oontained in vegetable foods, but it 
is indigestible ; therefore, although it produces a large amount 
of heat when burned outside of the body, it cannot be got to 
burn within it. Again, the albuminous constituents of food 
are not, under any circumstances, completely exhausted of 
tlieir/orce, or latent heat and energy, in the body ; for, hav- 
ing been thoroughly digested, and their elements in new 
combinations ejected from the system, these latter still are 
capable of being burned. Corrections can, however, be ap- 
plied in the case of the albuminoids j and as our knowledge 
of the relative digestibility of the alhuminoi<)s, fats, and 
carbo-hydrates in different fooiis is by no means limited, we 
are enabled to make a tolerably accurate estimate of the 
absolute and relative values of foods by analysing them, and 
determining their heat-giving and force-producing power. 

The following table, constructed by Dr. Letheby, exhibits 
the chemical composition of the more important foods, accord- 
ing to the most recent analyses : — 



this 1 

'. of I 

h nf ■ 



Handv Booh on Food and Diet. 



57 






H 

O 



'ttoqjRO 



©* eo •>*« ^ eo coco rH •— •^ i-i eo rn ■♦ e< »o t* 55 S ii i-i rn p- J-J o» 



*V98(U7UI 



V 



lo « r* 5* w i-i h- ■<*« I 1-1 o t* o» I CO ej ee t« ^ G09« 1^ ^rt a» CD -^ CO o» CO -r Qo i 

e« «0 0» Ok 9< t« 0» MS I CO M f-4 f-j I <0 «D «D 00 Oa C« OO O) i6 Md O CO o ot t« o^ iH I 



04 



ano 0!| 
8ii099«aoqjn0 



1^ 



'ffnon 



«o t<^ e4 «o o» t^ 



o»t^ |t«ioi-40 itetoot^iO^r^co'^ioioaor^'^'^ioaoA i 
e>i7<i 'orHxaco 'eoe«c<c«c>ido<oeJe^e6oe6a»09i5c>iH ' 

1-1 1-1 r^ rH 1-1 •« e^ - 




FHOOeOtOOfHOOO 

adc><oo«od<-i«deQ 

>ri fH r^ 04 



C0i-4S^ I 1-4 O 1-4 <^ CO QO eo i«* lO 00 i-l 00 04 O 1-4 a» 1-4 O I r^ 
©4 r-(iH rl rH rl i-4 04 iH rH iH 



04 



O 

o 
o 

•< 

> 

> 



06 

P 



'UTTg 



eet«ooaot«>o>o 

• ■ • • • • _• 

e4f^04e0i-lpHO04 



Or-ii-io 'oOO-4«>O^^M'^e4e«e«0««-^fHr-iiHiH04'o 



•XTJ 



<0 9'^«DOfHt«^ 104 04 10 
1-^ 04 04 Mi 04 00 O 04 'OOO 



I o»ooh»r->«eaqo»fHxa»oqeo^aoa»aoM3ioo 

' eO?HO^*000»i<«r-«>Oo6«OC<3«DOe0400iOOeO 
" " " — „ p^oO 



CO 04 



CO 1-1 ■♦ «e »» iH 



•HTong 



«OS40»"«*«t*"*"*0 

eo^i«* toeooe 04 



04i-«00i-JC>O»'^'* 
e^«0>QC40iC)>0(C> 



I I I I I I I I I I M I I I I 



*09 'Bovrxs 



2SSS2553SS2S3I I I I I I I M I I I I I I I 



*09f 'iiDtaa^ 



i-iooeo«ooi-4<90 
o6ocDO«od^<oco 

Pt ^ IH 04 



|rHeOi-l04 I *-> O i-< ''^ CO 00 eo i«* lO 00 p^ 00 04 O fH a» iH o 1 fH 
04iHrHi-li-(i-« ,H04r-liHpH 



-VSUTjy^ 



£>io ioMs<<^c«iQao>ceoe4iHus«oaoco<oc4iH04eocoot^iooo<4iooMSt«^iAf-) 
eopHi-ir-ii-ip^i-ii-NrHt«aoao33 ooaoaoeot«tot«o<0GOO4f-i«ot«t<-»«t«>b>f-<a» 



: o 



I 



-a 

la 
sg 



.MA 



m in 



S s ■ 

O «3 H "0 (3 
H P 3 eS ^ 



OB ^ 

<^ an •»" 



C •- !2 "^ -, * 






08 
j3 © 







58 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

The available carbon consists of all the carbon of the car- 
bonaceous constituents of the food, and of the carbon of the 
nitrogenous after deducting the carbon of the urea which \a 
excreted, 100 of dry nitrogenous matter yielding 31.23 urea. 

The amount of heat that raises the temperature of one 
pound of water 10^ Fah. is equivalent to the mechanical 
power, or force that raises 772 lbs. one foot high, or one 
poun^d through a height of 772 feet. Frankland has deter- 
mined the amount of force which different foods evolve when 
burned, and (by calculation) that produced when they are 
completely utilised in the body. Some of the more important 
of these results are given in the following table : — 

Mtchanical power obtained by burning 10 grains of different kinds oj 
food in oxygen^ and by their oxidation in the body. 

Lbs. Lifted 1 foot 
Per cent high. 

of , ^ ^ 

Name of Food. Water When When 

in Burnt in Oxidised 

Material. Oxygen, in the Body. 



Bntter ... ... 15 


14,421 


14,421 


Cheshire cheese ... 24 


9226 


8649 


Oatmeal 


16 


7962 


7800 


Wheat flour ... 15 


7813 


7623 


Pea-meal 


16 


7813 


7487 


Arrow-root 


18 


7766 


7766 


Ground rice ... 13 


7566 


7454 


Yolk of egg ... 47 


6809 


6669 


Lump sugar ... 19 


6649 


6649 


Grape sugar 


20 


6510 


6610 


Entire egg (boiled) ... 62 


4732 


4526 


Bread crumb 


44 


4431 


4263 


Ham (boiled) 


64 


8929 


3321 


Mackerel 


71 


3561 


3200 


Lean beef 


71 


3111 


2829 


Lean veal 


71 


2609 


2324 


Guinness's stout 


88 


2138 


2138 


Potatoes 


73 


2007 


1977 


Whiting 


80 


1791 


1569 


Bass's ale 


88 


1536 


1636 


White of egg 


86 


1328 


1143 


Milk ... 87 


1312 


1246 


GarrotB 


86 


1050 


1031 


Cabbage 


89 


864 


834 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 59 

To raise 1,000,000 lbs. a foot high is an extremely hard 
day's work for a strong man ; yet the force necessary for 
the accomplishment of this labour is stored np in 700 grains, 
or somewhat less than 1^ oances of butter. Heat and motive 
power are wasted when applied by means of mechanical 
contrivances. Not a tenth part of the heat generated be- 
neath the boiler of a locomotive is converted into available 
mechanical energy. The animal mechanism contrived by 
divine wisdom if that in which heat and force are most com- 
pletely economised, yet even in it there is some waste of 
energy, and especially of the materials from which it is 
evolved. It is found that practically food yields only about 
one-half of the force which, according to theory, it actually 
contains. The internal movements of the body — such as 
respiration and the heart's action — are sustained by the com- 
bustion of food (or of the blood and tissues into which it is 
converted), and in the case of an adult man are daily main- 
tained by a force competent to raise about 600,000 lbs. a foot 
high. A man whose daily work is equivalent to the raising 
of 400,000 lbs. a foot high will therefore uie 6-lOths of 
the force evolvfli by his food in merely sustaining the vital 
functions of his body. The amount of energy necessary 
to sustain a man for 24 hours is equal to the force set free 
by the combustion of each of the following quantities of 

food : — 

Food. Oancet. 



Cabbago 


*•• 


• • • 


• • • 


31-0 


Carrots 


• • • 


• • • 


• • • 


25-6 


Milk 


• •• 


• • • 


• • • 


21-2 


Potatoes 


• s ■ 


« * • 


• • • 


13.4 


Lean veal 


• •• 


• •• 


• • • 


11-4 


Lean beef 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


9-3 


Lean ham 


• 1 * 


• • • 




7-9 


Lump sugar 


• •• 


• •• 


• • • 


3-9 


Flour 


• • • 


• • • 




35 


Pea meal 


... 


• • • 


• . 


a-6 


Oatmeal 


• • • 


• 4 • 


• • • 


3-4 


Butter 


• • • 


• « 


% %% 


1-& 



60 Handy Booh on Food and Diet 

Liebig, many years agd*, divided foods into two great 
classes — the nitrogenous, or flesh*forming principles, and the 
non-nitrogenous, or fat-forming and heat- giving principles. 
The nitrogenous matters repair the muscles, which under- 
going incessant changes are the source of animal motive 
power, or energy. The non-nitrogenous serve to form fat, 
which, when oxidized, or slowly burned, produces the heat 
which maintains the temperature of the body. The results 
of the experiments of Voit, Mayer, Fick, Wislicenus, E. 
Smith, Parkes, Frankland, Haughton, and others, lead to the 
conclusion that the non-nitrogenous portion of our food is 
the chief source of muscular force. It would appear that 
during activity the muscles grow rather than waste, but 
after exertion there is a slightly increased excretion of nitro- 
gen from them. As the great bulk of our food is made up 
of non- nitrogenous matter, which is also in general the most 
digestible, it is evident that upon it chiefly depends the pro- 
duction of both heat and energy within our bodies. Whe- 
ther or not the food must be converted into blood, muscle, 
or fat before it is available for the production of heat and 
energy is still a vexed question. It is mt^t probable that 
the food is converted into blood, or in some way intimately 
incorporated with that fluid ; otherwise it is difficult to con- 
ceive how the force it contains could be applied to the pur- 
poses of the body. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 6 1 



CHAPTER X. 

DIETARIES. 

EvEBY part of the body undergoes decay, more or less rapid, 
and its elements in new combinations are eliminated almos 
wholly in the forms of water, carbonic acid gas, and a 
highly nitrogenous solid, termed urea. The matter that 
leaves the body is termed ejesta : the matter that enters the 
body, in order to replace that which leaves it in the form of 
ejesta, is called injesta^ or, in common language, food. The 
ingesta is highly organized, and contains, as I have already 
explained, a large amount of latent, or hidden force ; but the 
ejesta is so nearly in a mineral, or inorganic form, that it 
contains almost no latent force. If the injesta exceeds the 
quantity necessary to take the place of the ejesta, the excess 
either increases the weight of the body, or it is ejected in a 
condition in which it still retains its heat and force-produc- 
ing properties. The great majority of the people of the 
upper and middle classes introduce more food into their 
bodies than is necessary for the purpose of nutrition ; and 
they are, consequently, the greatest sufferers from dyspepsia, 
obesity, plethora, and similar diseases arising out of over- 
nutrition. On the other hand, a large proportion of the 
population subsist on a diet which barely serves to sustain 
the motions of their bodies. Lastly, there is a small propor- 
tion of the population who do not receive sufficient food 
wherewith adequately to repair the inevitable waste of their 
bodies. These unfortunates exist in every stage of starva- 
tion. Some are actually dying rapidly for want of food ; 
others are perishing slowly, but surely, from insufiicient ali- 
ment ; many barely succeed in keeping their miserable and 
wasted bodies alive. The greatest sufferers from defective 
nutrition are young children, of whom, m^xv^ nJ^^w^'^ccv^^ 



62 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

annuallj perish in the United Kingdom for want of proper 
nourishment. 

According to the researches of E. Smith, an adult man 
cannot exist unless supplied daily with food containing 4,100 
grains of carbon and 190 grains of nitrogen. Two pounds 
of bread furnish this amount of carbon ; but it requires 2;^ 
lbs. of bread to provide the nitrogen. 2^ lbs. of bread per 
day constitute a famine diet for a man, and 1| lbs. of 
bread a famine diet for a woman. 

From a careful study of the researches of Voit, Petten- 
kofer, E. Smith, and other investigators, I have come to the 
conclusion that an adult requivea daily per 100 lbs. of his 
weight the following minimum quantities of food prin- 
ciples : — 

Ounces. 
Nitrogenous substances ... ... ... ... 1^ 

JC QfXo ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 7 

Starch, or other carbo-hydrate ... ... ... 9 

Saline matter ... ... ... ... ... ^ 

According to Moleschott, a working man of average height 
and weight requires daily- 
Ounces, Avoirdupois. 
Albuminous, or flesh-forming substances ... 4.587 
Fatty bodies ... ... ... ... 2.964 

Carbo-hydrales (starch, sugar, &c.) ... 14.267 

Salts ... ... .. ... ... 1.048 



22.866 



Water ... ... ... ... 98.580 



121.446 

According to Lyon Play fair, 3 oz. of flesh- formers, ^ oz. 
of fat, and 12 ozs. of carbo-hydrates are the minimum quan- 
tities on which an adult can exist. 

The following table shows the dietaries of work people 
poorlj or barely fed, according to £• Smith's calculations : 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 63 



K 
H 

Q 

en 

S 

Q 

< 

H 

< 

h) 

"< 

u 

> 

H 
< 
(4 
H 

o 

Q 
O 

o 

(4 
"< 
H 
H 

Q 

>< 



ost. 


• 


t^ 


:2r 


Sir 


00 


^ 


CO 


^ 


Sr 


O 


to 


«cHi •sHi 
CO o» 


R" 




u 


oS 


©» 


tH 


99 


T-l 


e* 


94 


94 


94 


CO 


CO 


CO ^ 


94 


o 




'\ 




o 


^ 


to 


t^ 


CO 


lO 


CO 


94 


T*4 


tH 


00 "^ 


s 


-<* 







lO 


O 


CO 


r>- 


tH 


Oi 


^mt 


CO 


e> 


5S 


■^ CO 


tH 


o» 








91 


94 


CO 

tH 


eo 


to 

tH 


o 

94 


eo "^ 

91 94 


to 


94 


S 


^ 




















/ 








































>«-• 


§ 

■8 


c 


o 


no 


no 


CO 


eo 


tH 


t^ 


O 


CO 


"S* 


^^ CO 


t^ 


-H 


s 


o 


<N 


nr> 


Tt< 


94 


rH 


CO 


o 


t^ 


to 


) CO 


CO 


00 


o 




O 


94 


CO 


CO 
00 


91 


to 
eo 


T-T 


CO 


CO 


00 eo 


tH 

• 


00 

• 






O 


G4 


94 


94 


94 


91 


eo 


CO 


-<* 


"* 


"* -^ 


CO 




ci 


s 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


o> 


t* 


-<* 


00 


to 


to 


t* CO 


CO 


tH 




o 




o 


• 

o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o o 


o 


o 


• 


oS 

o 


o 


o 

• 


CO 

o 


• 

o 


• 

o 


■ 

o 


94 

• 

94 


CO 

CO 


to 
to 


00 


94 1 


tH 

CO 


• 

o 


O 






























• 


oS 


o 


CO 


CO 


o> 


CO 


00 


O 


o 


o 


o 

• 


00 o 

• • 


• 


tH 

• 


•S 


N 


t^ 


tH 


•rW 


y* 


00 


«H 


to 


00 


94 


to 


««• lO 


94 


CO 


S 


o 




tH 




"* 


lH 


•H 


94 


1H 


CO 


00 


94 CO 

tH tH 


"* 




• 

OS 




CO 

• 

CO 


CO 
to 


o» 

• 


94 

CO 


CO 
00 


O 

to 


tH 


00 

to 


o 

• 

CO 


o 

• 

o 


CO tO 

c5 ^ 


O 


to 

• 

tH 


o 


iH 




lH 




tH 




tH 


tH 


iH 


lH 


tH 


tH 






o 


to 

• 


CO 
CO 


to 

• 

>o 


CO 


• 


CO 


Oi 
CO 


00 

to 


to 

• 

to 


Oi 

to 


o eo 


to 


CO 

• 




d 


CO 


>o 


00 


CO 


CO 


o 


o 


o 


"<!* 


to 


00 00 


o 


-^ 


o 


• 


• 

00 


• 

00 


• 

CO 


Vii 


• 

-<* 

tH 


• 
tH 
1H 


o 

tH 


• 


t^ 


to ^ 


00 


tH 


QQ 






























• . 




o 


l>. 


00 


CO 


o 


CO 


O 


o 


o 


l>- 


o o 


tH 


tH 


5 S 


^ 


o 


CO 


• 

CO 


CO 


s 


94 


• 


CO 


CO 


00 


■^ 94 


00 


• 

tH 


o o 

0U,** 


o 


TH 


CQ 


■^ 


99 


94 


CO 


to 


o> 


eo 


94 


t« 


tH 


Bread 
Stuffs. 


fl! 


o 


>o 

• 


• 

00 


00 
00 


o 

• 

o 


00 

• 


-<* 

o 


00 


o 

CO 


o 

• 


Tji CO 


94 

• 


CO 

• 

CO 


o 




CO 


«o 


CO 




CO 

lH 


tH 


tH 


Oi 

tH 


94 

94 


O 94 
94 CO 


00 

tH 


94 












• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• • 


• 


• 














• 


• 


• 




• 


• 


• • 


• 


• 






• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 

s 


/^ 










• 


• 


»: 




^\ 


r^ 


• 
• 




• 
• 

• 


•^ 


£ 


• 
• 
• 




• 
• 
• 




• 
• 
• 


• 
• 

• 


o 




1 
§ 

§ 

1 


o 

1 


§ 

d 

o 

e 

1 

J4 


"cS 

OS 

g 

Jt4 


% 

w 

s 

1 

'3d 


o 

d 

OS 

CD 

•1 

as 

1 


1 

9 

Q 

1 
1 


d 
► 

o 

s 

« 

a 


d 

v 

o 
.o 

i 


« «d d 
.2 7S «« 

> a? »- 
>^^ v-^ ^^ 

k. li. fc4 

2 2 2 
d d d 

S S S 

OS ^ ^ 

\\\ 


• 

• 
• 

d 


OS 

I 

K 








f^ 


^^ 


•"■• 


o 


o 


A 


A 


A « « 




^ 








Szi 


at 


GQ 


tn 


U& 


O 


» 


^ U» ^ W \»^ 







64 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

Pettenkofer and Voit state that a proper dietary for sol" 
diers should include 5.2 ounces of dry albuminous substances, 
3.63 ounces of fat, and 13.3 of carbo-hydrates. According 
to Play fair, the diet of British soldiers contains — Flesh-for- 
mers, 4.230 ozs. ; fat, 1.665 ozs. ; carbo-hydrates, 18.541 
ozs. ; mineral matter, .789. Total, 25.245. 

According to Dr. Parkes, the French soldier receives 4.31 
ounces of flesh-formers, 1.328 of fat, and 18.212 of starch, 
sugar, and other carbo-hydrates. 

The diet of the British soldier on home service consists 
of: — Meat, 12 ozs.; bread, 24 ozs.; potatoes, 16 ozs.; other 
vegetables, 8 ozs. ; coffee, .33 ozs. ; tea, .16 ozs. ; sugar, 1.33 
ozs. ; milk, 3.25 ozs. ; salt, .25 ozs. : total, 65.32 ounces ; 
costing, according to the state of the markets, from 7d. to 
9d. Military prisoners at hard labour receive from 8 to 10 
ozs. of oatmeal, 9 to 12 ozs. of Indian meal, 8 ozs. of bread, 
and 24 ozs. of milk. 

The following is an approximation to the composition of 
the body of an average man ; — 

Centesimal Composition of Man, 

Water ... ... ... ... 72.00 

f at ... ... ... ••• t7» ^o 

Gelatin ... ... ... ... 10.00 

Albumin .. .. ... 8.00 

Fibrin, &c. ... ... ... 3.00 

Earthy and alkaline salts and a little iron 2.75 



100.00 



It has often been said of the Irish small farmers and agri- 
cultural labourers that their food is relatively deficient in 
nitrogenous matters ; but Dr. Smith shows that it contains 
25 per cent, more nitrogen than is supplied by the diet of 
the English agricultural labourer. Dr. Smith also states 
that the Irish eat less potato than the English, and not half 
tlie amount consumed by the ScolcTa. Dr. Smith's statistics 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 65 

were collected since the potato famine, and at a time when 
Indian meal and oatmeal were largely used in Ireland ; but 
during late years the potato is rapidly supplanting the Indian 
meal and oatmeal, and, therefore, new statistics relative to 
the food of the Irish peasantry are required. When the Irish 
small farmer subsisted upon an exclusively potato and butter- 
milk diet, he consumed (as I find by careful inquiries) 14 
lbs. of potatoes and 3 (16 ounces) pints of buttermilk per 
day. This would give him — allowing 24 oz. for waste, 
skins, &Ci — 200 oz. of potatoes and 48 oz. of buttermilk per 
diem, or at the weekly rate of 42 oz. of albuminates, 210 oz. 
of starch, 56 oz. of sugar, and 3^ oz. of fat. These figures 
show that in albuminates and carbo-hydrates the diet of the 
Irish peasant was superior to that of the agricultural labourers 
of England and Scotland, and even to that of soldiers and 
sailors. They also show there was a proper proportion be- 
tween the albuminates and carbo-hydrates. The striking 
defect of the diet was its very small amount of fat ; its great 
bulk, too, was not a recommendation. This diet is still in 
use, but rarely ; oatmeal, Indian meal, and flour being very 
generally employed throughout the country. 

The dietaries of well-fed operatives, calculated by Lyon 
Playfair, are shown in the following table : — 

Quantities of Food Consumed Weekly hy Operatives, 

Albuminous j, St«-ch and ^^^^ j^j^ 

0^::i 0-^««- Ou^c";. ^'^^'' ^'*^"«- 

Fully-fed tailors ... 32.97 9.57 129.29 36 962 2.276 

English sailor ... 35.00 17.99 100.73 23.838 1.764 

French sailor ... 40.18 9.24 166.20 44.653 2.835 

English nawv ... 60.18 26.74 194.67 68.065 3.374 

Blacksmith " ... 44.40 17.50 186.60 48.048 3.059 

The tables of analyses, &c., contained in this and the pre- 
ceding chapters, and the information in relation to food 
given generally in the preceding pages^ vill^'oaW^^^'is^ 



66 . Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

Hgent reader to construct dietaries adapted to the wants of 
different classes of persons. Women require about 10 per 
cent, less food than men of the same weight ; but as the 
bodies of children are growing, they require more food in 
relation to their weight and labour than adults. In calcu- 
lations, 2^ lbs. of carbo-hydrates (sugar, starch, &c.) are only 
equal to 1 part of fat. Due allowance must be made for 
the cellulose, and other well-known indigestible substances, 
present in some foods. 



CHAPTER XL 

COOKING FOOD. 

Food is submitted to various processes, termed collec- 
tively cookery, for the purpose of rendering it more pleas- 
ing to the eye, more agreeable to the palate, and more yield- 
ing to the digestive action of the stomach. There is not 
only great art, but even science in cookery ; and there is no 
doubt but that much valuable nutriment is wasted, owing to 
the bad methods of preparing food which are prevalent in so 
many households. 

vThere is greater simplicity in the cookery of these countries 
than in the cuisine of our French and some other conti- 
nental neighbours. The true Briton still loves the blood 
red joint which found such favour in the eyes, or rather 
mouth, of his medieval ancestor; whilst the Frenchman's meat 
is so thoroughly cooked and seasoned that it is almost im- 
poasible to know the nature of the animal that furnished it. 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 67 

On the whole, I think the English do not sufficiently cook 
their joints ; whilst, perhaps, the French go a little too far 
towards the other extreme. Of late years the cookery sys- 
tems of the two countries have been somewhat reacting 
upon each other — no doubt, to their mutual advantage. In the 
matter of economy, the cuisine of the middle and lower 
classes in France is decidedly superior to the methods of 
cooking adopted by the corresponding classes of society in 
Great Britain. The French buy their meat every day, and 
serve it up in the form of soups, ragouts, and various highly 
seasoned dishes. In this way they can indulge in hot din- 
ners every day. On the other hand, the British well-paid 
artizan, clerk, and even professional man, is obliged to dine 
too frequently on cold meat, because the purveyor of his 
household adheres to the national custom of purchasing 
joints or other large pieces of meat. There is occasionally 
waste, too, incurred by buying large joints; for although the 
dreaded " cold shoulder" of mutton may be cheerfully en- 
dured the day after it had been discussed hot and juicy, still 
few — ^not even the most economical pater familicB — would 
like a third visitation from the same joint. If the French sys- 
tem were suddenly to supplant the time -honoured cooking 
institutions of these countries, I fear that the cooks would 
be serious sufferers; for in France their fatty perquisites are 
very small indeed. The French are just as particular in 
dressing their vegetables as in preparing their meat ; and 
they have very ingenious and economical methods of incor- 
porating both classes of food into composite dishes of excel- 
lent flavour. In Ireland meat is not quite so generally made 
use of in the very underdone condition in which it is served 
up in England. The Scotch, too, appear to cook their meat 
more thoroughly, and they somewhat resemble the French in 
the variety of their " made" dishes. In Paris the ver 
meat is sold in very small quantities^ bwi vcw \}(i<^\ax^ 



68 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

of the United Kingdom it is difficult to purchase beef or mut- 
ton of the best quality unless in large quantities. 

The most economical way to use meat is to cook it in hot 

water, and eat it served up in its own ^ravy. If meat be 

boiled for the purpose of forming soup, the water should not 

be abruptly raised to the boiling point; for, otherwise the 

albuminous matters speedily coagulate, and prevent the juices 

of the meat from passing into the water. The meat should 

be chopped or cut as fine as possible, steeped for some time 

in cold water, and then the latter may be gradually heated 

up to a temperature not exceeding 150 degs. Fahrenheit, 

or 62 degs. lower than the boiling point of water. At the 

last moment the temperature of the soup may be allowed to 

reach the boiling point. Bones require to be boiled, or 

rather simmered, for eight or ten hours, in order fully to 

extract their nutritive matter. They should be thoroughly 

crushed. When the meat is to be used with the soup formed 

from it, the boiling need not be so prolonged as to render 

the flesh insipid. 

Soup contains the greater part of the saline matter, the 
crystalline principles {creating creatinine &c.), some of the 
albumin and fat, and an amount of gelatin, dependant upon 
the duration of the boiling process. Nearly all the odorous 
matters contained in the meat are transferred to the soup. 
Cold water extracts from one-sixth to one-fourth of the 
weight of the solid ingredients of meat ; and in this watery 
extract the savoury, saline, and crystalline ingredients are 
very abundant. After long continued boiling, meat becomes 
a hard mass, composed of horn- like, muscular fibres, the 
(areolar) tissue connecting them, and parts of the nerves 
and blood vessels. It is almost impossible to masticate it : 
it is nearly perfectly indigestible; and it is so devoid of flavour 
that it is impossible to know from its properties the nature 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 69 

of the animal that furnished it. Even a dog, as Liebig 
8ays, will reject it. 

E. Smith, in his excellent work on Practical Dietaries, 
gives several good receipts for soup for the working classes, 
of which the following are two examples: — Soup for 100 
persons. — " Meat liquor from 7 lbs. of beef and 1 lb. of bones ; 
split peas, 13 lbs. ; carrots and swede turnips (of each), 
6§ lbs. ; onions, 5^ lbs. ; leeks, ^ lb. ; salt, pepper, and herbs." 
These materials would require 12 gallons of water. Broth 
for 100 persons. — *'Meat liquor from 7 lbs. of beef and 1 lb. 
of well broken bones ; split peas (1^. per lb.), 2| lbs. ; 
Scotch barley (IJd. per lb.), 3 l-5thlbs. ; carrots (:Jd. per 
lb.), 3^ lbs. ; turnips (Jd. per lb.), 3^ lbs. ; cabbage and 
other green vegetables, 7:^ lbs. ; salt, pepper, and dried 
herbs." 

For invalids beef soup is by far the best. That made 
from mutton is less digestible, and is seldom free from fatty 
matter. Veal (which forms the " stock" of white soups) does 
not form a good soup for the sick. The presence of a large 
quantity of highly nitrogenous crystalline principles in soup 
accounts for its wonderful restorative powers. Very strong 
beef tea might almost be classed with such stimulants as 
brandy and tea. Creatin, creatinin, and other similar bodies 
ID meat bear a close resemblance to the thein of tea and coffee 
and the theobromin of cocoa. The best form in which ani- 
mal food can be given to children is, perhaps, as beef soup, 
or tea. 

If we wish to cook meat in such a way as to preserve, as 
much as possible, its nutritious properties and its digestibility, 
we should proceed as follows : — The meat is placed in one 
or more large pieces in boiling water, and kept there for five 
minutes. The high heat coagulates, or clots the albumin at 
the surface of the meat, stops up its pores, so to speak, and 
thereby prevents, to a great extent^ the i\3L\a^'& ^1 n5w^ \fiiR»x. 



70 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

from leaving it The boiling is continued for about five 
minutes, and then cold water is added, so as to reduce the 
temperature to about 150 degs. Fah. ; and the cooking pro- 
cess goes on at that degree of heat until the meat is done. 
Meat that is cooked altogether at the boiling point is gene- 
rally tough. By boiling, meat loses from 20 to 35 per cent, 
of its weight ; the average for beef being about 25 per cent., 
and for mutton a little more. Salted meat intended to be 
eaten cold should be allowed to cool in the water in which 
it has been boiled. 

In roasting meat the object should be to apply the heat so 
suddenly as to immediately coagulate the albumin at the 
surface, just as I have described should be done in boiling 
meat. The meat is at first placed close to the fire, kept 
there for about 10 or 15 minutes, and then withdrawn to 
a greater distance from the heat. It should be roasted very 
slowly, so that the inner parts may be perfectly done. The 
loss of weight — nearly altogether water and fat — in roast- 
ing is greater by nearly one-third than that sustained by 
boiling. Aromatic materials are developed by roasting, 
which are very grateful to the sense of smell ; and this form 
of cooking certainly produces the most agreeably flavoured 
food. The occasional addition of flour to the surface {dredg- 
ing) stops up the pores, and restrains the too rapid escape 
of the fats. Boasted meat is not so well adapted as boiled 
meat for sick and delicate persons, as it is apt to contain 
acrid substances formed out of the highly heated fats. Broil- 
ing is a species of roasting, but it produces in general a some- 
what more digestible food for the dyspeptic. 

Baking is sometimes found a convenient mode of cooking 

meat; but the dishes prepared by that process often have a rank 

flavour, which renders them inadmissible in the case of the 

sick and dyspeptic. Improved ovens for baking meat are 

coming into use : they have ventilating openings through 



Handy Book on Food and Diet 71 

which the volatile matters discharged from the dishes are got 
rid of ; the flavour of the meat baked in this way is not so 
rank. 

Fried meat is, perhaps, the worst form in which this food 
could be given to the sick, as it almost invariably contains 
a most acrid substance, ternied acrolein^ and various unplea- 
sant fatty acids. • 

Stews and hashes are generally very savoury, but they sel- 
dom agree with people of weak digestion. When made from 
fresh meat, they are infinitely superior to the dishes made of 
re-cooked meat. The repeated cooking of any kind of food 
greatly injures its nutritive properties ; for this reason, it is 
better to re-heat our good cold beef and mutton in our 
stomachs rather than in our frying-pans or stewing pots. 

The only drawback to the cooking of meat at a low tem- 
perature is the danger that it may contain trichinae or 
other parasites capable of existing at a temperature of 150 
degs. If, however, the meat be cooked until all traces of 
redness have disappeared, it is extremely unlikely that it 
would still contain living animals. Meat may be cooked at 
a high temperature, and still remain underdone ; whilst, 
even at a heat of 150 degs. it may be too much done. The 
thorough cooking of foods depends more upon the duration 
of the process than upon the temperature to which they are 
exposed. 

Salted meat is not so nutritious as the fresh article, be- 
cause much of its saline constituents pass ofl* in the brine. 
Scurvy is produced by the continued use of salted meat with- 
out fresh vegetables. It is said tjhat meat sometimes becomes 
poisonous by being cured in brine that had been used 
several times ; the pickle jar should, therefore, have its con- 
tents frequently renewed. 



72 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 



CHAPTER XII. 

DIGESTION. 

Food cannot become part of the living body, nor can it 
even enter the blood, until it has been subjected to the 
various processes termed collectively Digestion. These pro- 
cesses are: — Mastication^ Insalivation, Deglutition, Chymi- 
fication, Chylificationy and Sanguification* 

Mastication, or chewing, is, in relation to digestion, a 
much more important operation than it is generally con- 
sidered to be ; for, if food be not properly put through this 
preliminary preparation, the following processes are not so 
likely to be thoroughly carried out. So admirably adapted 
is the structure of the teeth to the nature of the work they 
re intended to perform, that it is easy to learn, from an 
inspection of an animal's teeth, what kind of food it subsists 
upon. Man has 82 teeth — namely, 8 incisors^ or front 
teeth ; 4 canines ; next, 8 pre, or false molars (bicuspids) ; 
and, nearest the angles of the jaws, 12 true molars (Multicus- 
pids). The set of teeth in the lower jaw corresponds with 
that in the upper one. In carnivorous animals the canines* 
are very large and pointed, and are used as weapons of offence ; 
and the incisors, or nippers, are employed for cutting or tear- 
ing their prey into pieces. In the herbivorcBy or vegetable 
feeders, the canines are generally either absent or imper- 
fectly developed. The molars are intended to grind food, 
and consequently they have broad and rough crowns. The 
teeth of the carnivores, corresponding to the molars in the 
herbivores, are cutting teeth. The premolars are interme- 
diate, in their structure and uses, between the cutters and 
grinders. The vegetable feeders require incisors for the 

* From canis, the Latin term for dog, because they are largely developed 
in that animal. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 73 

purpose of cropping or cutting herbage, but in some animals 
— the ox, for example — these teeth occur only in the lower 
jaw. The jaws of the flesh eaters open and close like a pair 
of scissors, because their teeth have merely to nip or cut their 
food ; but by means of the more complicated mechanism of 
the jaws of the vegetable feeders their molars are enabled 
to rub over each other in a manner which resembles the 
motion of millstones. In his dentition man resembles both 
the flesh eaters and the vegetable feeders. His sharp in- 
cisors and canines cut to pieces the animal food which he 
uses, whilst his molars grind into a pulp tough vegetable 
food — which the teeth of the most powerful tigers or lions 
could not properly prepare, even if their stomachs were 
capable of digesting it. The theory that man is not natu- 
rally a flesh eating animal, to which ** vegetarians'* pin their 
faith, finds no proof in the structure of their own teeth and 
stomachs. 

The great bulk of a tooth consists of dentin — a hard and 
languidly vital substance, enclosing a sensitive /7u/p. A 
thin layer of a very dense substance, termed enamel^ invests 
the dentin, and outside of all there is a thin casing of a 
hard substance called cement. Enamel is so nearly a pure 
mineral body, that it contains 97 parts of earthy matter, 
chiefly phosphate of lime (tricalcic phosphate), whilst dentin 
contains only 72 per cent, of inorganic salts. 

Unless the teeth are sufficiently numerous and effective, 
chewing cannot be properly performed, and indigestion, in 
one or more of its many forms, is a probable result. It is 
clear, then, that the condition of the teeth should be carefully 
attended to, beginning at the period of early childhood. 
From constitutional causes, many persons begin to lose their 
teeth in early life ; but it is often in the dentist's power to 
arrest or lessen their decay, provided his assistance be timely 
procured. Most people try to get their teeth re^^alred^VN^^ 



74 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

only mere shells of them are left. Very cold or very hot 
drinks injure teeth ; and they are not improved by using 
them as nut-crackers. It is probable that very acid drinks 
occasionally dissolve the enamel and, consequently, hasten 
tbe decay of teeth. Sour gases and liquids ejected from the 
stomach unquestionably produce a bad effect on the teeth. 
The tooth brush — not too hard a one — should be used morn- 
ing and night ; for food left in close contact with the teeth, 
and unremoved tartar, are common causes of disease of the 
teeth. 

Insalivation is the lubrication, or moistening of food by 
means of a liquid formed in the mouth, and termed saliva. 
This substance consists of a liquid secreted by little vessels 
termed (follicular) glands — which stud the mucous, or moist 
surface of the mouth, lips, gums, and tongue — mixed with 
liquids, prepared more abundantly by three pair of larger 
vessels, termed ihQ parotid,* submaxillar y^^ and suhlingual% 
glands. Saliva is colourless, odourless, and tasteless, and is 
of about the consistency of very thin mucilage. It contains 
less than one per cent, of solid matter, the rest being water. 
A nitrogenous and very fermentisible substance, termed 
ptyalin,% or saliviUy is found in saliva, and is the active prin- 
ciple of the liquid. It possesses the property of converting 
the starchy part of food into sugar, whereby it is rendered 
soluble, and more capable of being digested. The saliva of 
infants does not contain ptjalin, because the food which 
nature has provided for them — namely, milk — contains no 
starch. A saline matter, termed sulpbocyanide of potassium, 
occurs in saliva ; but its functions are unknown. 

The formation of saliva takes place incessantly, and large 
quantities of it are swallowed involuntarily. Its secretion is 

* A term derived from the Greek words, para, near, and otos, the Bar. 
t From the Latin words, svh, beneath, and maxilla, the jaw. 
i From «u&, and lingua, tbe tongue (Latin). 
§ From the Greek word, pfyoloSj saliva. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 75 

stimulated by the contact of food with the mouth, and even 
by the sight or smell of savoury dishes. Smoking tobacco 
causes a great waste of this liquid. It is difficult to esti- 
mate the daily quantity of saliva secreted by man ; but it is 
believed to amount to about from 40 to 50 ounces in the caie 
of an adult man. The saliva of flesh eating animals acts 
merely mechanically — that is, it moistens the food, so tbat 
it may easily pass into tbe stomach. As there is no starch 
in their food, there is very little ptyalin in the saliva of the 
carnivores. On the other hand, as the food of the herbivores 
is largely composed of starchy matters, their saliva contains 
a large amount of salivin ; so that mastication in their case 
is a species of true digestion. 

Deglutition, or swallowing, is the operation by which food 
is transferred from the mouth to the stomach ; and, like all 
the processes in the animal economy, it is accomplished by 
the most beautiful and wonderful contrivances. All that 
need here be said relative to deglutition is, that the hasty 
swallowing of food is a common cause of indigestion. The 
Americans, who, perhaps, more than most other people eat 
very rapidly, suffer greatly from various forms of dyspepsia. 
The bolting of our food is, beside being injurious to health, 
a most ungraceful habit, placing those who give way to it 
almost — in the matter of feeding, at least — on a level with 
the ravenous beasts of prey. Man's food is, to a great ex- 
tent, vegetable, and we should imitate the example shown 
us by the slow feeding herbivores. 

In the stomach the food is subjected to the action of the 
gastric juice. This liquid — which is prepared by glands 
lying in the mucous lining of the stomach — is clear, limpid, 
slightly viscid, and possessed of a faintly acid flavour, when 
abundant. In some diseases, and during abstinence from 
food, the gastric juice is generally alkaline, or soda-like. 
In the gastric j uice, as in the saliva, there is a nitro%<^\i^>^ 



76 Handy Book on Food and Diet 

active principle termed pepsin. It does not appear to exert 
any influence upon the starchy food ; but it is capable of 
dissolving the albuminous aliments of both vegetable and 
animal origin. Rennet owes its power of coagulating the 
casein of milk to the pepsin which it contains. The action 
of pepsin upon fats is not clearly known, but it is certainly 
very slight ; whilst it has no influence upon starch. In the 
stomach of the flesh-eating animal there is abundance of pep- 
sin ; whilst it is rather scanty in the digestive organs of the 
vegetable feeders. In the gastric juice of the pig — which is 
a semi- carnivorous animal — there is a considerable pro- 
portion of pepsin ; and it is from the stomach of that animal 
that this substance is prepared — for pepsin has recently be- 
come a commercial article, and is prescribed by the physician. 
The quantity of gastric juice secreted by man is very large, 
and is believed to amount to more than twenty pints per day. 
Grunewaldt found that a woman suffering from a gastric 
fistula secreted thirty-one pints in twenty- four hours. Of 
course, a large proportion of the gastric fluid poured into 
the stomach is re-absorbed, or, at least, its watery consti- 
tuent is ; otherwise man would consume much more water 
than he now drinks. 

Although strong acids — alkalies and alcohol — destroy the 
digestive power of pepsin^ a moderate degree of acidity in 
the gastric juice appears to be essential to its proper action. 
The stomach always contains free hydrochloric acid, and 
generally a smaller proportion of lactic acid. Lactic acid is 
the sour matter which is found in milk when it becomes stale, 
and hydrochloric acid is the well-known muriatic acid, or 
spirits of salt of commerce. At low temperatures solution 
of pepsin (or the gastric juice) scarcely affects food ; but at 
about blood heat (100 degs. Fah.) it acts energetically. 
Heated beyond 120 degs., pepsin rapidly loses its digestive 
power. From this we learn that very hot drinks should not 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 77 

be taken, as they diminish the activity of the digestive func- 
tion. If we place a piece of flesh, raw or boiled, in a warm 
solution of pepsin, containing a few drops of muriatic acid, 
it will soon be reduced to a pulp. This process is called 
artificial digestion, and will be referred to further on. 

According to Meissner, albuminates are broken up by the 
action of the gastric juice into two classes of substances, 
which he names peptones and parapeptones : the former are 
digested in the stomach ; but the parapeptones are not further 
affected until they have passed out of the stomach into the 
duodenum. 

In addition to being acted upon chemically by the juices 
of the stomach, food is subjected to a mechanical treatment 
by the muscular coats of that organ. The food is churned 
about in such a way that it makes complete revolutions 
throughout the whole extent of the stomach, until it is re- 
duced to a semi-liquid condition. 

The final result of the action of the stomach upon food is 
to convert it into a whitish, rather thin pulpy substance, 
termed chyme* Part of this body is directly absorbed by 
vessels in the walls of the stomach ; but a large portion 
passes into the lower intestines, where it is converted into 
chyle. 

The narrow tube into which the stomach merges at its 
lower, or pyloric extremity is termed the small intestine ( we 
should rather say narrow, for it is 25 feet long, whilst 
the large, or wide intestine is only from 5 to 6 feet in length) ; 
it is divided into i\iQ duodenum^ which is nearest the stomach, 
and is about a foot long, the jejunum and the ileum. The 
surface of the duodenum resembles that of the stomach, and 
into this tube three distinct fluids are poured: namely, a 
kind of mucus secreted by the intestine itself ; hile^ which ' 

* From the Greek word, chjmos juice. 

F 



78 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

receives from the liver ; and ih^ pancreatic juicCy a contribn' 
tion from a separate organ, termed the pancreai. The in- 
testinal mucus is a colourless or slightly yellowish fluid ; it 
is viscid and possesses a feeble alkaline reaction. It is 
asserted that this secretion combines in itself the properties 
of saliva and gastric juice ; but as it contains no active prin- 
ciple like pepsin^ it is singular that it should be capable of 
converting albuminates into peptones. Perhaps the action 
upon food attributed to intestinal mucus may be really due to 
the gastric j uice, which often passes along with the semi- 
digested food into the duodenum. The action of the mucus 
upon starch may be due to its abundant nitrogenous, or albu- 
minous constituents acting as a ferment in the way that the 
fermenting nitrogenous matter in dough changes its starch 
into dextrin and sugar. 

The pancreas is a large gland situated close to the 
stomach : in some of the animals used as human food, it is 
termed the " sweetbread." It secretes a liquid termed pan- 
creatic juice, which is constantly discharged into the duode- 
num. This juice is colourless, rather viscid, and very alka- 
line. It contains an active principle termed pancreaiin. 
Its solid ingredients vary from 1 J to 2^ per cent., and in- 
clude a large proportion of soda. Pancreatic juice helps to 
complete the digestion of the food which escapes the action 
of the saliva and gastric juice. It changes starch into sugar, 
but there is reason to doubt its alleged digestive action on 
albuminates. There are strong reasons to lead us to believe 
that the digestion of fats — bodies upon which saliva and 
gastric juice have little influence — is chiefly effected by the 
pancreatic secretion. Some physiologists, however, deny 
that pancreatin is concerned in the digestion of fatty foods ; 
but as this j uice is largely secreted by carnivorous animals, 
whose food contains no starch, it is reasonable to infer from 
ihai fact that it plays some important part in the digestion 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 79 

of either fatty or albumiaous food, and most probably the 
former. 

The third fluid found in the duodenum is the product of 
the largest organ of the body — the liver — and is termed bile 
This substance is a slightly alkaline, but sometimes neutral 
liquid, of which an adult man probably secretes about 5 pints 
each day. Ox bile — the kind which has chiefly been 
examined — contains 10 per cent, of solid matter. Bile in- 
cludes peculiar resinous and colouring matters, and is rich 
in soda. Its colour is yellowish green, or, when diluted, a 
deep yellow ; and its flavour is intensely bitter. The liver 
purifies the blood and separates from it the materials which it 
elaborates into bile. The latter fluid is discharged through 
a passage (the ductus communis choledochus) into the duode- 
num, where it is partly absorbed into the food and partly passed 
down into the lower intestines to be got rid of. Much has 
been written relative to the functions of the bile ; but the 
part which it plays in digestion is not as yet thoroughly 
known. It appears to act upon the fatty parts of the food, 
and it probably prevents the starchy matters from ferment- 
ing. Bernard found that the blood leaving the liver con- 
tained more fat than when it entered the organ ; from which 
it would appear as if the liver were a fat-forming organ. 
Perhaps the starch which is changed into soluble sugar by 
the saliva and the juices in the duodenum is afterwards con- 
. verted into fat by the liver. It is now clearly established that 
animals can be fattened on a diet from which fats are ex- 
cluded when the elements of bile are in excess in the blood ; 
and should the bile secreting functions of the liver be sus- 
pended, the digestion of the food cannot be perfectly per- 
formed, the blood becomes impure, a state of disease inter- 
venes, and the patient is said to be *< bilious.'' Sometimes 
the bile is secreted, but not allowed to escape : under such 
circumstances its accumulation in the bo^^ y^q^wr.^^ V-'v^j*^^^ 



80 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

The final action of the juices in the duodenum is to con- 
vert the chyme into a more highly elaborated substance* 
termed chyle. The surface of the duodenum and of the 
whole of the digestive canal is studded with immense num- 
bers of minute points, termed villi ;* they are the extremities 
of little ducts, or passages, through which the assimilable 
part of the chyle is absorbed and transmitted to little tubes» 
termed lacteals^ because they contain a milk-like Qac^ Latin 
for milk) fluid, and which are situated in the walls of the 
intestine. There are numerous other little vessels in the 
walls of the intestine, containing the blood, with which the 
structure is nourished. The lacteals, by uniting, form a 
network of vessels, situated within the fold of the mesentery ^ 
or membrane that connects the intestines with the wall of 
the abdomen, and serves to detain them in their proper 
place. They next enter little vessels, termed the mesenteric 
glands f of which there are from 100 to 150. In these 
vessels the fibrin and corpuscles of the chyle increase, and the 
substance acquires a higher degree of organization. The 
vessels which convey the chyle from the mesenteric glands 
gradually unite, forming branches, which, coalescing and 
growing larger, at length produce two or three large tubes, 
which discharge their contents into a long pouch, termed the 
receptaculum chyli. From this pouch the now highly orga- 
nized material is conveyed through a tube, called the thoracic 
duct, upwards and along the course of the back-bone, until it 
reaches the great blood vessel, called the aorta ; behind which 
it passes to the left side and pours its contents into a large vein 
the (subclavian), at a point where it joins the internal jugular 
vein. The diameter of the thoracic duct is about the quarter 
of an inch. During its passage from the duodenum to the 
subclavian vein the chyle becomes more and more highly 

* From the Latin word, villus^ sbaggy hair. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 81 

organized, until finally it merges into and becomes an in- 
tegral part of the blood. 

The parts of the food which cannot be absorbed by the 
lacteals are passed downwards and transferred to the large 
intestine. The surface of the lower intestines possesses ab- 
sorptive but not digestive powers. 



CHAPTER XIIL 

DIETETICS, OR REGIMEN. 

The proper food for the newly- born infant is the milk of 
its mother. This nutriment should not be withheld, except 
for very sufficient reasons, and in obedience only to the strict 
orders of the physician. If the mother's milk be not avail- 
able, the best substitute for it is that provided by a healthy 
** wet" nurse. Thousands of infants are satisfactorily fed 
from their birth upon a diet altogether destitute of human 
milk ; but those children usually possess strong vital powers. 
It is the infants who are naturally delicate, or puny, who 
most suffer from the want of the nourishment intended by 
mature for their use. Nearly 50 per cent, of the children 
born in these countries die before they attain five years of 
age ; and this excessive mortality is in great part due to 
defective nutrition, and to the use of unsuitable food. 

The diet of the wet nurse should be abundant, nutritious, 
and plain. Persons in that position of life are not accus- 
tomed to dainties, and, therefore, any very marked change in 
their diet is more likely to prove injurious than beneficial. 
The vulgar idea than a wet nurse could hardly drink too much 
porter is a most erroneous one. She should be altogether 
prohibited from taking ardent spirits, or even wine, and her 



82 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

supplies of malt liquor should be limited to two small bottles 
a day as a maximum quantitj. Of good milk she could 
hardly drink too much, and she should be supplied with 
abundance of plain animal food. Of tea or coffee she should 
partake sparingly, and these beverages should be rather 
weak. 

Those ladies who are able to nurse their infants should 
use a generous diet, and more especially should they drink 
plenty of good milk, if they can get it — for in towns thai 
liquid is almost invariably adulterated with water. With 
respect to alcoholic liquors, I am inclined to think that 
nursing mothers are rather too libera] in using them — not from 
actual fondness for them, but because they believe them 
to be necessary adjuncts to their ordinary diet. There are 
delicate nursing mothers who are unable to consume sufficient 
food wherewith to supply their own wants and those of their 
infants. Those mothers are often undoubtedly benefited by 
a liberal allowance of malt liquors, which they are able to 
digest, and which, to a great extent, perform the functions 
of food. 

In the absence of human milk, that of the cow or the ass 
should be used — the former diluted with one-third of its 
volume of water, and slightly sweetened. The milk of the 
goat is more liable to coagulate than that of the cow or ass, 
and it should not, therefore, be given to very young infants. 

The saliva of infants contains little or no ptyalin, and it 
is, therefore, incapable of converting starchy food into 
dextrin and sugar. Special foods containing nutritive matter 
in a state adapted to the digestive organs of infants are now 
largely manufactured. "Liebig's Food for Infants," prepared 
by Messrs. Savory and Moore, is much recommended by 
medical men. According to Dr. H. Barker, it ** resembles 
mothers' milk as closely as possible." The " Concentrated 
Patent Milk Company of London" prepare a food for infants, 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 83 

which consists chiefly of ** flour transformed into dextrin and 
grape sugar by Liebig's process." All these kinds of foods 
must be regarded as very valuable additions to the dietaries 
of the nursery. 

Some children are confined to a milk diet until they are 
a year old ; but there does not appear to be any merit in 
this practice. After two months it will, with few exceptions, 
4)e found advantageous to give something in addition to milk, 
either rusks (in the form of panado\ or preferably one of 
the foods prepared specially for the use of infants. I am 
strongly of opinion that infants at three months old would be 
benefited by the use, in very moderate quantity, of weak 
beef tea- or chicken broth. These foods, if necessary, may be 
given from the feeding bottle. Feeding children from a 
bottle provided with an artificial teat is now very general ; 
but it often fails in the case of sickly and feeble infants. 
It often fails, too, in the case of healthy children, because 
the bottle and its appendages are not kept sweet and clean. 
Whilst one bottle is in use another should be steeping in 
water. 

Human milk has a temperature of about 100 degrees, 
therefore it is obvious that the milk of the cow when given 
to infants should be warmed to from 98 degs. to 100 degs. 
Fahrenheit. Why should there not be a little thermometer 
in every nursery ? The fresher the milk is the better ; and 
the mixture of milk, water, and sugar should be used imme- 
diately after its preparation, as it very soon ferments. If 
the milk becomes even faintly sour it should be rejected. 

Boys and girls require more food in relation to their size 
than adults, and they require to be fed more frequently. 
They are seldom epicures, and plain food in abundance is all 
they require. They should not use alcohol in any form, 
nor do they require tea or coffee until they are well frr* 
ii<p. Children, however, as well as adults, suffer froir 



84 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

of variety in their diet. The health of the boys at the Duke 
of York's school was improved by introducing a greater 
variety into the methods of cooking their food. The same- 
ness which once characterised the rations of British soldiers 
had a must injurious effect upon the health of the men. 

As a general rule, working men appear to be quite satis- 
fied with three ample meals a day. Breakfast should be taken 
early, because, after a night's rest, the stomach is usually* 
without a particle of food. The French workmen make a great 
mistake in delaying their first substantial meal until noon. A 
cup of coffee and a morsel of bread do not afford sufficient 
force-producing materials wherewith to perform nearly half 
a day's work. Long walks before breakfast should not be 
taken ; for, after a fast prolonged exercise unduly lowers the 
vital powers. If breakfast be taken at nine o'clock, a.m., 
then dinner should not be delayed later than three o'clock. 
Those who cannot dine until five or six o'clock should take 
luncheon about one or two o'clock. Nothing can be said in 
favour, but much might be alleged against, the fashionable 
practice of dining at half- past seven, and even eight o'clock. 
When dinner is taken early, the evening tea should be a 
somewhat substantial repast. Suppers, unless of the very 
lightest description, should not be eaten by those who have 
dined heartily. In any case they should not be taken later 
than two hours before bed time. A good breakfast invigo- 
rates us ; but a heavy, late supper depresses our vital powers^ 
The stomach sympathises with the brain : witness the horrid 
nocturnal visitants conjured by our disordered imaginations 
under the influence of late suppers of devilled kidneys or 
richly dressed lobster ! It would appear as if the brain, in- 
dignant at the outrages offered to the stomach, punished the 
gourmand by unpleasant dreams and terrific visions. 

According to E. Smith, the dinner of the working man 
should contain about 25 per cent, more nourishment than his 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet, 85 

breakfast, and twice as much actual nutriment as his supper. 
Amongst the richer classes, the dinner contains at least as 
much actual nutriment as all the other meals combined. 

Regularity in the hours of meals is a prime point in die- 
tetics. To dine one day at Hwq o'clock, the next day at six 
o'clock, and the following day two hours earlier is a prac- 
tice which could hardly be sufficiently condemned. Perio- 
dicity is a great law of the universe. Our habits should, as 
far as possible, be brought into harmony with this law. We 
should rise, breakfast, dine, sup, and go to bed at regular 
stated hours. We need not, of course, carry such a system 
to an extreme degree ; but, as a general rule, regularity in 
our habits of living exercises a most beneficial effect upon the 
health. Violent exercise or a bath after a full meal is un- 
desirable. Rest promotes digestion. After a long fast, food 
should be very slowly eaten ; indeed, under any circum- 
stances we should not eat hastily. The craving for food is 
not instantly allayed by the introduction of it into the 
stomach ; hence, if a meal be swallowed in a few minutes, 
more food may be consumed than is actually required. A 
full meal requires from three to five hours for its complete 
digestion; and as the stomach, like all the other organs of 
the body, requires rest, one meal should not be taken until 
an hour or so after the previous meal has probably been di- 
gested. 

Less food is required in summer than in winter ; for, dur- 
ing the former season there is less difficulty in maintaining 
the temperature of the body. 

A high temperature is a necessary condition in digestion. 
Solid fats remain long in the stomach before they are di- 
gested ; but if liquefied, they yield far more readily to the 
aetion of the gastric juices. For this and other reasons, food 
is best taken in a warm state. In very warm weather this 
rule may be relaxed^ especially in the case of liquid foods* 



86 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

On the other hand, food too highly heated is apt to produce 
a bad effect upon the teeth, and may even injure the stomach. 
A fondness for very hot liquids is a vitiated taste ; and it 
should be noted that it is almost impossible to appreciate the 
fine flavour of food, liquid or solid, if it is so hot as almost 
to scald or burn the mouth. 

Delicate children, especially those who exhibit any ten- 
tency towards rickets or scrofula, are often greatly benefited 
by the use of cod liver oil — a substance which combines in 
itself both nutritive and medicinal qualities. When the 
glands in the neck swell and become hard, they are often re- 
duced to a normal condition under the influence of cod liver 
oil. A teaspoonful three times a day will usually be found 
sufficient when the child is from two to eight years old. A 
large proportion of the " cod liver" oil of commerce is com- 
posed wholly or partly of the oil obtained from hake, ling, 
and other fishes. Holler's and De Jongh's oils are highly 
recommended by the medical faculty. When the strong 
flavour of the oil renders it intolerable to palate or stomach, 
'* Fox's Palatable Cod Liver Oil" is generally tolerated; but 
the dose of it is double that of the ordinary kind of cod liver oiL 
The rapidity with which food is digested depends upon 
various and varying conditions, such as the nature of the food, 
the kind of preparation to which it is subjected, the condition 
of the diflPerent organs of digestion, the quantity and the 
quality of the different digestive juices, and so on. It is, 
however, desirable to know, in a general way at least, 
which foods are the most likely to be digested quickly, other 
conditions being alike. For our knowledge on this point 
we are chiefly indebted to Beaumont, as he was the first to 
make experiments under conditions which were certain to 
afford satisfactory results. The object of his experiments 
was a man who had received a wound leading into his sto- 
mach, ajad which; healing imperfectly, left an opening 



Handy Book on Food and Diet. 87 

through which the processes going on in his stomach could 
actually be looked at. Beaumont made a set of experiments 
with the object of ascertaining the length of time necessary 
to digest different foods in the stomach of this man, and 
another set of experiments to ascertain the time occupied 
in digesting food in solutions (heated to 100 degrees) of 
gastric juice placed in phials. The relative results of both 
sets of experiments were found to pretty closely coincide ; 
and they have, on the whole, been confirmed by the results 
of similar enquiries undertaken subsequently by other phy- 
siologists. In the following table some of the more impor- 
tant results of Beaumont's experiments are given : — 

Mean Time of Chymification, 
In Stomach. 
Foods Preparation. Hours. Min, 

Rice ... ... Boiled 

Eggs, whipped ... Raw 
Trout, salmon, fresh Boiled 



Venison steak 
Sago 
Milk 

Eggs, fresh 
Milk ... 
Turkey ... 
Gelatin ... 
Goose, wild 
Pig, sucking 
Lamb, fresh 
Beans, pod 
Potatoes, Irish 
Chicken 
Oysters, fresh 
Eggs, fresh 
Beef, lean, rare 
Mutton, fresh 
Bread, corn 
Butter ... 
Cheese, old, strong 
Potatoes, Irish 
Beef 

Veal, fresh 
Fowls, domestic , 
Ducks, domestic . 
Veal, fresh 
Pork, fat and lean 
Cabbage ... 



••• 



*.. 



••• 



... 



Broiled .. 

Boiled .. 

Boiled 

Raw „ 

Raw 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Roasted .. 

Roasted .. 

Broiled .. 

Boiled 

Roasted .. 

Pricassed .. 

Raw 

Soft boiled 

Roasted .. 

Boiled 

Baked 

Melted 

Raw 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

Roasted .. 

Roasted ,. 

Fried 

Roasted 

Boiled 



30 
30 
35 
45 



2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 

4 
4 
4 
5 



16 
25 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
45 
55 



15 

30 
30 
30 



30 
15 



88 Handy Book on Food and Diet. 

We learn from those who have made tKe phenomena of 
digestion special studies the following general principles :— 
Ist. That animal food is retained longer in the stomach and is 
more perfectly digested than vegetable aliment. 2nd. That 
the digestion of vegetable food is very imperfectly performed 
in the stomach, the labour of the operation devolving chiefly 
upon the intestines. 3rd. That the denser the structure of 
food is, the longer does it resist the action of the gastric 
juice. 4th. That oily and fatty substances are the most 
difficult to be digested. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE. 

The upper and middle classes of society consume in general 
more food than is necessary for the purposes of nutrition. 
The excess, if it be not very great, is usually speedily elimi- 
nated unchanged, or more or less altered in composition, from 
the system ; but occasionally it is in part retained for a con- 
siderable period, producing effects varying from a mere feel- 
ing of discomfort to serious diseases. Those who habitually 
indulge too freely in the pleasures of the table are peculiarly 
liable to derangement of the digestive organs. Excessive 
quantities of lean meat and of sugar appear to be more readily 
digested than undue amounts of fatty and starchy foods, the 
latter being very liable to leave — hardly altered in composi- 
tion — the system. A diet composed nearly altogether of al- 
buminates produces in a few days fever and diarrhoea. When 
the albuminates are continuously excessive, the liver, after 
B time, usually ahows symptoms of disease. On the other 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 89 

hand, an undue proportion of fats, starch, and sugar fre- 
quently induces obesity — which, undoubtedly, may be re- 
garded as a diseased condition of the body. 

Mr. Banting, a retired manufacturer, finding himself, 
though only five feet five inches in height, to weigh 202 lbs., 
adopted a diet which, he states, reduced his weight to 150 
lbs. in about twelve months. ' " For breakfast," says Mr. 
Banting, ** at nine o'clock, a.m , I take five or six ounces of 
either beef, mutton, kidneys, broiled fish, bacon, or cold meat 
of any kind, excepting pork or veal ; a large cup of tea or 
cotFee, without milk or sugar ; a little biscuit, or one ounce 
of dry toast ; making together six ounces of solid and nine 
of liquid. For dinner, at two, p.m., five or six ounces of 
any fish, except salmon, herrings, or eels ; any meat except 
pork or veal"; any vegetable except potato, parsnip, beet- 
root, turnip, or carrot ; one ounce of dry toast, fruit out of 
a pudding, not sweetened ; any kind of poultry or game, and 
two or three glasses of good claret, sherry, or Madeira — 
champagne, port, and beer forbidden ; making together ten 
or twelve ounces solid and ten liquid. For tea, at six, p.m., 
two or three ounces of cooked fruit, a rusk or two, and a cup 
of tea, without milk or sugar, making together two to four 
ounces solid, and nine liquid. For supper, at nine, p.m., 
three or four ounces of meat or fish, similar to dinner, with 
a glass or two of claret or sherry and water, making to- 
gether four ounces solid and seven liquid. For night-ca{.> 
if required, a tumbler of grog (gin, whiskey, brandy, with- 
out sugar), or a glass or two of claret or sherry." 

Mr. Banting states that on this diet his weight for many 
years continues to be eleven stones, and that he enjoys excel- 
lent health. The food mentioned in the above extract (taken 
from Mr. Banting's famous pamphlet) contains barely three 
and a half ounces of albuminates, or an ounce less than the 
quantity which a well-fed brain or body worker \NCivii<l y^- 



90 Handy Booh on Food and Diet* 

quire. The quantity of nitrogenous matter is, however, 
almost as abundant as that contained in the diet of Austrian 
soldiers, which, according to Dr. Parkes, amounts to 3.915 
ounces. The carbonaceous elements in Mr. Banting's solid 
food amounts to only four or five ounces, or little more than 
one-fifth the quantity supposed to be necessary in the case of 
an adult man. The liquid food taken by Mr. Banting does 
not contain much tissue-forming matter ; but his three or 
four glasses of wine and " night-cap" of grog act as a partial 
substitute for the carbo-hydrates — that is, their alcohol serves 
to maintain the temperature of the body, and to develop 
motive power. Sparse as Mr. Banting's diet is in some re- 
spects, it is, perhaps, superior to the fare enforced amongst 
the monks of the order of La Trappe, who usually enjoy a 
fair amount of health. 

Mr. Banting's diet is constructed with the view of excluding, 
as far as possible, the elements which contribute to the for- 
mation of fatty tissue. There is no novelty in his system — 
for it had been previously suggested by physiologists — but 
he deserves credit for the persistency with which he has 
brought his plan of regimen before the public, and for his 
successful attempt to prove, in the case of his own person, 
that obesity admits of an effectual dietetic remedy. Some per* 
sons have, no doubt, injured their health by adopting, in an 
injudicious manner, Mr. Banting's system ; but, on the 
other hand, we believe that many persons have been bene- 
fited by imitating him in the moderation of his diet, and his 
temperance in the use of alcohol. At the same time, we feel 
quite satisfied that a hard worker — either with his brains or 
his hands — would require a more liberal diet than that on 
which Mr. Banting appears to thrive so well. The reader 
who desires to construct a diet on Mr. Banting's principles 
wiU he enabled to do so by consulting the tables of the nu- 
tritive values of food in Chapter IX. 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 91 

In sickness the functions of the body must be maintained, 
and this can be accomplished by the daily expenditure of 
about 2 0X8. of albuminates, 10 ozs. of starches or sugars, 
and 1 oz. of fats. If these quantities of food be not supplied, 
the vitality of the whole body is maintained for a while at 
the expense of a portion of it ; but this wasting of tissue soon 
reduces the system to so low an ebb that death from sheer in- 
anition, or exhaustion takes place. In diseases such as fever, 
where there is a high temperature of the body, the waste of 
tissue is most rapid. In general the food supplied to a patient 
should be about one-third less in quantity than the amount 
which he usually consumes when in health ; to give larger 
quantities, except under very exceptional circumstances (of 
which his physician is the proper judge), is a great, and 
often dangerous, mistake. In disorders of the digestive or- 
gans, which have, in all probability, originated in excess at 
the table, or in the use of unwholesome food, almost com- 
plete abstinence for a day or two is generally beneficial. 

Only the most^digestible food should be used in the sick 
room. Pork and other fat animal food, veal, lamb, salted 
meats, the strong -flavoured fowls (duck, goose, &c.), fish, 
and cheese should be prohibited. Beef tea, especially if 
rendered more stimulative by the addition of extract of meat, 
has saved the lives of thousands of patients ; sometimes it is, 
however, given ad nauseum. Alternations of beef tea and 
chicken broth are desirable ; for in the dietary of the sick 
room variety is a most important point. Jelly, though con- 
sidered innutritious by most physicians, is, I am quite 
satisfied, a digestible and nourishing food, and well adapted 
to the sick. Chicken and tender young fowl are very diges- 
tible, and should be used whenever solid food can be adminis- 
tered. Milk is an excellent food, but it does not agree with 
every one, even in a state of health. When it agrees with 
a patient, he may be liberally supplied with it» MANJ^S&\iax^SSj?j 



92 Handy Book on Food and Diet 

suitable in fever cases. Dr. Donkin, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
has recently stated that he has obtained the most excellent 
results by keeping patients suffering from diabetes, Bright's 
disease, and other chronic maladies on a purely milk diet. 
Patients who cannot use much fresh milk might be able to 
consume a larger quantity of skimmed milk. Children, too, 
with whom the rich milk of the cow often disagrees, might 
get on much better if a portion of the cream were skimmed 
off. During sickness the less butter used the better in gene- 
ral for the patient. 

In bilious disorders eggs should not be given. In other 
complaints the yolk is often found to be an acceptable and 
digestible aliment. It should be perfectly fresh, and neither 
too much cooked nor the reverse. The utility of giving raw 
eggs to sick persons appears very questionable. 

Vegetable foods are sparingly employed in the dietaries of 
the sick. Grapes may almost always be used ; and when 
there is thirst, the juices of the orange, or of the lemon, tern 
pered with a little sugar, prove useful. Esculent vegetables 
should not be eaten. Bread is best taken in the form of 
unbuttered toast, very slightly browned. Biscuits and un- 
fermented bread are superior to fermented bread in the 
case of dyspeptics. Of the farinaceous foods, none are so readily 
digestible as those prepared from rice. Colman's '* British 
Corn Flour" is a preparation of rice, which is specially adapted 
for the sick, on account of its bland character, extreme diges- 
tibility, and the well flavoured dishes into which it is easily 
convertible. Dr. Edward Hamilton, surgeon to Dr. Steeven's 
Hospital, Dublin, assures me that a patient of his, who could 
not retain any other kind of food in his stomach, subsisted 
for weeks on preparations of the British corn flour, but for 
which article he would have died from actual want of nou- 
rjshm&ni. 
Alcohol is now largely used in the treatment of disease. 



Handy Book on Food and Diet 93 

When patients utterly refuse the ordinary kinds of nutriment 
they not unfrequently are able to drink one or more of the 
many alcoholic beverages. In fever the action of alcohol 
appears to be most strikingly exhibited. Professor W. Moore 
informs me that 27 fever patients under his care during 
October and November, 1870, at Sir Patrick Dun's Hospital, 
Dublin, were liberally supplied with alcohol in the form of 
whiskey, brandy, or wine (or two or all of these liquids), and 
that not a single death occurred amongst them ; though in 
many cases the disease (enteric, typhus, and simple con* 
tinued fevers) was of the most severe type. In the case of 
chronic maladies, the use of alcohol, though sometimes bene- 
ficial, certainly produces less satisfactory results than attend 
its employment iu inflammatory complaints. Here, in can- 
dour, it must be admitted that many eminent physicians deny 
the efficacy of alcohol in the treatment of any kind of dis- 
ease, and some assert that it is worse than useless. The 
preponderance of medical opinion is, however, in favour of 
the use of alcohol as a semi-medicinal, semi-nutritive sub- 
stance. In chronic maladies the best wines are those which 
do not contain more than 20 per cent, of proof spirit. The 
strong alcoholic liquors should be taken very largely diluted. 
Dyspepsia is a term vaguely employed to designate a some- 
what ill-defined class of diseases of the digestive organs. In a 
limited sense it means the abnormal condition of the stomach 
and duodenum, in which these organs, without being struc- 
turally diseased, are incapable of perfectly and easily digest- 
ing ordinary food. The causes of simple dyspepsia, or indi- 
gestion are numerous. Deficiency of nutriment, inferior and 
badly cooked food, and bad condition of the blood, are prime 
causes of indigestion amongst the lower classes. Undue pres- 
sure of the clothes upon the body, irregularity in the hour* 
of meals, excessive quantities of food, imperfect masticatioi 
severe mental and bodily exercise, grea.t ^x^^v^Vj <5K ts^Sx 



94 Handy Boole on Food and Diet. 

and sedentary habits, are amongst the common causes of 
imperfect digestion. A dyspeptic who is an idler should try 
active exercise as a remedy ; whilst relaxation often affords 
immediate relief to the brain or body worker, whose labours 
are excessive. '* One man's meat is another man's poison" 
is a trite but true adage. Many persons constantly eat and 
drink things which, though generally digestible, they well 
know are certain to disagree with themselves. Simply for 
the momentary gratification of their palate they willingly 
undergo hours of discomfort, if not of actual pain. Any food 
which disagrees with the stomach will, if constantly used, be 
likelj to convert the occasional, into the confirmed, dyspeptic. 

Flatulence is a common form of dyspepsia. Those subject 
to it are benefited by abstaining as much as possible from 
esculent vegetables. They should, however, use a little fruit, 
in order to supply the necessary saline ingredients of food* 
and which are most abundant in vegetables. Grapes and 
roasted apples are not likely to produce^a^u^. 

Pyrosis^ heartburn, or acid dyspepsia, is a very common 
form of indigestion. It is produced by an excess of acid 
(lactic, or acetic) in the stomach. It is frequently caused 
by a diet in which the starchy elements of nutrition prepon* 
derate ; and it is, therefore, common amongst the poor. 
Heartburn often results from the decomposition of butter in 
the stomach, whereby an intensely acrid and strong-flavoured 
substance, termed butyric acid, is produced. Those who 
suffer from ' acid dyspepsia should especially avoid pastry, 
and all dishes containing highly heated butter. They should 
prefer a diet in which the albuminates preponderate rather 
than the carbo-hydrates, A bulky diet seldom agrees with 
the sufferer from acid dyspepsia. 

Biliousness is an abnormal condition of the system which 

some persons believe is induced by an exctssi^e develop- 

ffjenf of bile, wljiJst others suppose that it is caused by 



Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 95 

the inactivity of the liver. In general the liver has very 
little to do with the state popularly termed bilious — the 
malady being frequently caused by fermentation of food in 
the stomach, either from deficiency of gastric juice or from 
the overloading of the organ. Sometimes the duodenum be- 
comes obstructed ; and the food after partial digestion iu the 
stomach cannot descend into the former viscus : under such 
circumstances the food in the stomach becomes semi-putrid, 
and produces nausea, headache, and even worse symptoms ; 
occasionally the duodenum, when obstructed at its lower end, 
discharges bile into the stomach. Certain kinds of food, 
which cannot, owing to individual idiosyncrasies, be readily 
digested, undergo partial putrefaction in the stomach, and 
produce bilious symptoms. Active exertion, regular habits, 
and moderate diet are the best remedies for simple biliousness. 

In some cases defective digestion arises from deficiency of 
pepsin in the stomach, or of pancreatin in the duodenum. 
In such cases these digestive agents may be artificially sup- 
plied. Mr, Morson prepares pepsin from the stomach of the 
pig ; and this substance is largely prescribed as a remedy 
for indigestion in the stomach. The '* pancreatic emulsion" is 
another preparation of which medical men speak favourably. 

In dyspepsia, pure and simple, where there is no organic 
disease, change of air and scene often works wonders. Those 
who suffer from indigestion usually say that their stomachs 
are out of order — a perfectly true statement ; but in a large 
proportion of cases the nervous system is out of order and 
the blood is impure. It is as much by its effects upon the 
blood and nervous system as by its influence upon the 
stomach that a sojourn in some of the health resorts of 
Great Britain and the Continent does good. Wonderful a 
machine as the stomach is, it cannot do its work without the 
aid of the nervous system ; and if the brain and spinal cord 
are exhausted by overwork of any k\tvd^\.W^ ^vviwwvX^v^ V5» 



96 Handy Booh on Food and Diet. 

il(;vo(e to tlie service of the digestive organs the necessary 
amount of furce wlierewtlli udeqiiatet/ tosustaio the funclions 
of the latter. The country geDtleman well knowa how bood 
his horse would get knocked up if permitted to take a full 
feed after a hard day's work with the hounds ; and many a 
dyspeptic onea much of hij misery to hid sitting down to 
dinner thoroughly worn out by the braiu worry and physical 
fatigue of the day. Ail who breathe impure air and have 
languid respiration, are prone to have their blood loadtd wilh 
impurities ; and those unhealthy conditions of existence lead 
in uiany ways to indigestion. Taking all these matters into 
account, the dyspeptic, about to take his holiday trip, should 
Bclect some p'ace which will at once afibrd rest for the mind 
and something to gratify his eye — something to constantly 
engage his attention ; above nil, something which will induce 
him to take plenty of exercise in good air. Most of the 
places in Ireland which fultil these conditions are on the sea 
coast — Bundoran, Poitrusb, Newcastle (Co, Down), Kilkee, 
and Glengariff, for example. In England there is Scar- 
borough for those who like gay society; and Whitby 
for those who prefer a quieter place. Some find the high 
and dry inland air of liarrowgate to suit them best; and 
those who can afford a continental trip have the very thing 
they require at Hjnaburg — that is, a variety of pleasant ex- 
cursions to mnke and the purest air to breathe. All the 
a'lvantages of Homburg avail, however, very little to the 
dyspeptic if he allows himself to be lured by the dangerous 
attractions of the gaming tables of that town. 

For young men a pedestrian excursion through Conne- 
mara, the Highlands of Scotland, or the English lake dis- 
tricts o''ten proves a pleasant antidote for simple dyspepsia. 
The exercise should, especially at the beginning of the trip, 
be moderate. A walk of twenty miles is equal to a day's 
iard work at the plough or in other laborious occupiUions. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



WORKS PUBLISHED BY 

BAILLIERE, TINDALL, & COX, 

Publishers by Appointment to the 

CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL. 



M 



Price -Ss. 6d. 

THE TONIC TREATMENT OF GOQT, By JAMES a DICKIN- 
SON, late Bengal Medical Service. 

Price Is. 

C CONSTIPATION: its Causes and Consequences, with some hints for its 
I prevention and -cure. By a COUNTRY CLERGYMAN. 

Price Is., Post Free. 

ALPINE HEIGHTS AND CLIMATIC INFLUENCES IN CON- 
SUMPTION. By Dr. CHARLES DRYSDALE, Physician to the 
Korth London Hospital for Consumption, &c. 

Price 10s. 6d., with eight moveable-dissected coloured plates and five 

woodcuts 
AN: HIS STRUCTURE AND PHYSfOLOGY, popularly explained 
and demonstrated. By R. KNOX M.D., F.R.S.E. 
Second Edition, with Appendix. 

Plain 24s. ; Coloured, 42s. 

ANATOMY OF THE EXTERNAL FORMS OF MAN. By Dr. J. 
FAU. Edited, with additions, by R. KNOX. M.D. Twenty-nine 
Drawings from Nature, Lithographed by M. Leveillfe. 

HEMISTRY IN ITS APPLICATION TO TBE ARTS AND 
MANUFACTURE. By RICHARDSON and WATTS. 

Vol. I. Parts 1 and t contain Fuel and its Applications. Profusely 
Illustrated with 4^ Engravings and 4 Plates. i£l 16s. 

Vol. I. Part 3 contains Acids, Alkalies, Salts, Soap^ Soda, Railway 
Grease, &c., their Manufacture and Applications. With numerous Illus- 
trations. £L 19s 

Vol. I. Part 4 contains Phosphorus, Mineral Waters, Gunpowder, Gun- 
cotton, Fireworks, Aluminum, Lucifer Matches. With Illustrations. 
£\ Is. 

Vol. I. Part 5 contains Prussiate of Potash, Oxalic Acid, Tartaric Acid, 
and tbe APPiilNDIX to VoL. I. PARTS % and 4, illustrated with many 
Tables, PUtes, and Wood Engravings. £1 l€s. 

Third Edition. Price Is. By post, Is. 2d. 

MY FIRST START IN PRACTICE. ^y a LONDON 
DOCTOR. 
** It is so amusing that the reader who begins it will not lay it dowa till 
it is concluded, and then will long for more." — Observtr. 

London : BALLIERE, TINDALL, & COX, 

MEDICAL AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLISHERS, 
20, KING WILLIAM-ST^^1E.T, '^.'^^K^^^ 



it ADVERTISEMENTS. 

" By a thorough knovfladge of the natural laws which ptvcm the 
operations of digosiioti and nutrition, and by a careful npplicntion ol 
tha fine proncnics of woil-aelectcd cocoa, Mr. Eppa has provided oor 
breakfast- tables with a deli cntely-flavou red beverage which ma; mt« 
nt manj hea^j iloctora' bills."— Ci«i/ Semkt Gaielle. 



EPPS'S 

(BREAKFAST) 

O OOO A. 

Tlie Terj ngreeaUe character iif this preparation has rendered it a 
gancnil fnvonrite fur breakfast. It is iraite simplv with boiling wuter 
or milk. Sold only in ^Ih,, ^ lb., and 1 lb. tin-lined packets, labelleJ 
— James Effs & Co., UomoBopathic Chemists, Lond...ii. 



MOLLER'S COD LIVER OIL. 

" All pretences of (jaacks about refining Cod Livar Oil and miiliin^ 
II palatable are either cavera for adulteration, or liuch as deprive lb; 
oilot iiBniediciHnlpropE''lie8."— 7'iin(so/Me7M Sept, 1870, 

Naiaro's produce in the livera of the living co<l is a verj bright and 
sweet oil, Onlj careless preparation gives 10 the bright oil a sicklj 
taste from putrid livers, or a dark coloar Ihrongh pitrsaing tha anri- 
qnaled melting process bj overheating. To i^nch an extent is careless 
preparation still prevailing, that Mt>Li.KB'H Ou, was the only one re- 
narded with the Rrst-class Mednl at the Exhlbtliona of London, I8G2, 
and Parts, ISGT. Prepared at Molleb's exten.sivc matiQfsetories iit 
Lofoten, Norway, and bottled there. Mni-LER'a Ou. is sold under the 
manofacturer's (own) gnaranlee, by all (ihcmiats, ineapsoied half-pint 
bottles, at 2s. 3J., and pints at 4s. Medical lestimoaiuls with eiich 
hottJp, or on application to 

LONDON DEPOT, 

JESTER mOLLER, 521, Oxford-street, London. 

',' CiHitraeler la L'nivtrsily CalUi^r Uispital, &v. 



ADVEBTTSIMEKTS. 



Aulhoraed tf iAe Fitnch lUinisltr of Agrictiliurt, Commercr, 
Public Woirki, to be told in France for the removal of tainlfront 
and Ike parijicaiion of potable water. Adopted bt the Boahi 
Tbadb ukdkb the Mercrant Shippinq act, 1S€7, in the 



EIGHT SREAT EXHIBITION PHIZES, 





PARIS, 1B67. SIIVU HEOIL lONimil, 1863. TIE MEDHt. 

LONDON. 1B61— The Medal. 

PARIS, 1B67— Silver MedaliDClus 44. Honourable Mention in Class 11. 

BnnueMedaL.lInMmaiionalConrerenceof'SocieliesforAid tolhe Wouddtd 

in War." HAVRE. iB68— Silver Medal, Maritime Eihibiiion, 

silver Medal and Special Vote of Approhatioit, Naval Medical ConEreu. 

AMSTERDAM, 1869— Eitiaordinary Menlion. 

CONDY'S PATENT FLUID, 

OR NATURAL DISINFECTANT, 

Contuns ta its activa principle A'iiictnt Ox^^«n (Nature's own purifier), 
and ii therefore ailmjrablj Euited to all purposes of domestic puritioa- 
tion. In addition to its ordinarr uses, such as pariFjing drinhini; 
water from pnirid organic matter, lead, &c., freshening the air of c1o<e 
places, and removing bnd smella, enhaicing tlie invigorating effects ol 
bath, Ac, it has the following special Domestic applications, viz.: — 
ClaanBing Dairy Utensils, and so avoiding Tiiraed Milk, 
Thoronghly Purifying Beer and Pickling Tuba, Bottles, fto. 
- Coring Uusty Provender. Freeing Seeds from Smat 
Freeing Meat, Ponltry. Fish, or Batter fromTaint, and Render- 
ing it Sweet and Eatable. 
Maintaining the Health of Plants in Conservatories. 
Washing Dogs and other Domestic Animals. 

CONDVS PATENT FLUID is also a safe and efBcienl remedy, as well as a cer- 
tain prevtnlive, for many of Ihe most serious Diseases of CaUle, die . such ai Moillh- 
and-Foot Disease, Lung 1 liseasei and Murrain in Catllel; Foot-rot and Scab in Sheep : 
Suri'eit.GreaM, and Farcy in Horses; Distemper and Mange in DogSi in a word, 
CONDVS FLUID may be used nilh conndence in treating 

All the Infectious Diaeaae s of Cattle and Do mestic Animals- 

PBICE9— Orean Flnld. Half Dlato. Sd. ; Pints. \t. ] Impeila] Qtiarta, 
Sa. ; In bulk. Ba par Oal'on. Crimson (stTongeT and purer) HaU-plntE. 
Is.: Pints, la. ; Quarts, 4i.; In balk. IDs. peiOallau; Battles, 8 d. oer 
Oallon. 

Sold by J. BELL & CO., ^^ft, Q-ilot^-*.,, Vra^Sisso. 
VTflOLESALE AT TVIE WO'B.YLSi'ahrC^^'SSS.*^- 




SAVORY 

' KESEMBLES MOTHER'S MILK as closelt 

AS POSSIBLE, and is far superior to all others, in 
Promoting the Healthful Growth of Children." — 

Dr. E. Barter " 0» Right Foods/or I^fauls." 

'THE INFANT PKINCE 

3 taken this Food for Months past, aud thrives 
K)n it as a Prince should." — 

Doctor RicliaTdion,F.R.S. 

" Dr. LANGSTON has nrach pleasure in hearing testimony to the 
efficacy of Savory and Moore's Improveh Food for Inkakts. He 
has prescribed it in many cases of great debiUiy, willi loss of flesh, and 
has invariably found it a.iisweT his expeclKtiims in restating the siclily 
_dlild to health." 

■' To Mothers and Nurses the saving of time and 
fnulile is of the greatest importance. This Food 
'is a real improvement on the ordinary kinds." 

^The Latctt. 

Dr. IIAKflALL reports .— " Tbis Food is eminently adapted to the 
food of infants, being highly nourishing, and, what -^ of the greatest 
aaeqnence, of easy digestibiilty." 



SAVORY & MOORE, 

iate 10 the Queen, H.R.II. the Privce of WoUs, ^c, f c, 
143, NEW BOND-STREET, LONDON. 



I Bold in Tins, Is,, 2s , Ss-, and 10s>, b7 all Chemists 

and Italian Waiehoasemen. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



FOX'S 

PALATABLE COD UVER OIL, PALATABLE GOD UVER OIL WITH 
QUININE, AND PALATABLE CASTOR OIL 

The advantages of these "Palatable" Oils consist in the jpurest oils bein^ so pre- 
pared as to be really pleasant to the taste, and at the same time their medicinal pro- 
perties are not in the least impaired. They can be taken by the most deUcate, when 
all other kinds have been rejected. The ** Palatable" Castor Oil will be found a 
useful and agreeable form for administering this valuable medicine. 



The Analytical Sanitary Institution, 2, Adelphi Terrace, London, W.C., 

June loth, 1870. 
I have subjected to careful chemical analysis, and also to practical trial, samples of 
Fox's '* Palatable" Cod-Liver Oil. 

I would remark, in the first place, that in order to render a Cod-Liver Oil palatable, 
it is necessary that it should be pure, of the first quality, and free from rancidity. 

I find, then, that this Oil, to which the flavouring and other ingredients have been 
added, is of this description ; and, further, that those in^edients, while they render 
the Oil palatable and impart to it tonic properties, do not m the least impair me natu- 
ral properties of the Oil, and are in themselves entirely innocuous. 

ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M.D., 
Author of " Food and Its Adulterations," "Adulterations Detected 
in Food and Medicine," &c., &c. 



The Analytical Sanitary Institution, 2, Adelphi Terrace, London, W.C. 

June loth, 1870. 
I have subjected samples of Fox's "Palatable" Castor Oil to careful and full exa- 
mination and analysis, and I find that the Oil itself is of excellent quality, and that the 
ingredients added to it for the purpose of improving its flavour, and of causing it to be 
better tolerated by the stomach, do not impair the active properties of the Oil, and . 
are in themselves entirely unobjectionable. 

ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M.D., 
Author of " Food and Its Adulterations^" " Adulterations Detected 

in Food and Medicme," &c., Ac. 



From TAe Lancet, June i8th, 1870. 

** Our attention has been called to the preparations named (by Messrs. Fox and 
Co., of Manchester) Palatable Cod Liver Oil and Palatable Castor Oil. We have 
made ourselves acquainted with the means employed to render these oils * palatable,* 
in place of being, as they are to so many persons in their natural state, nauseous and 
disagreeable to the palate, and calculated to derange — especially cod liver oil — the 
stomach and other organs of digestion. These means are simple and unobjectionable, 
and they have the ef^ct of removing certain impediments to the free and general use 
of these oils, and, in the case of cod liver oil, of endowing it with mildly tonic pro- 
perties. The idea of rendering cod liver and castor oils palatable is an exceedingly 
good one, and no doubt there will be a large demand for, and consumption of, the oils 
thus prepared." 

H. BROWNE, Esq., M.A., M.D., M.R.C.S., Phvsician to the Manchester 
Royal Infirmary, writes — " I have tested the 'Palatable' Oi\% as severely as possible , 
by Prescribing them only /or patients who could not take the ordinary kinds. The 
Cod Liver Oil was given to five patients, and agreed with four of them. They were 
cases of consumption, chronic bronchitis, scrofula, and Addison's disease. The 
patient with whom it did not agree was suffering from chronic irritation of the 
stomach and bowels. These cases, Uiough few, si5ficiently prove the value of the 
'Palatable' Oils.'" 

" Palatable" Cod Liver Oil, is., 2s., 3s. gd. ; with Quinine, 2s. 6d., 4s. gd. 

" Palatable" Castor Oil, 6d., is. 

May be obtained from any Chemist. 

LONDON DEPOT-8, BURY-GOURT, ST. MARY AXE, E.G. ; 
MANUFAGTORY-CITY-MK&, MtMKSKS?^. 



ADVT.UTISmEyTS. 

:.IE1UG COMPANY'S EXTRACT 

OB^ 3«EH1 A.a?, 

biapplielta Oil 3rltl^)t. Prsacti. Pmsiia^ Basalan, Datcb, Italian. 

«u iiecn ■(■rdEil Tva QUI Hadits Paria Bii ' 
■nd ti f .an It < o{ -V no* (■..l-tty ; ttte OoW M9 

thft Srand Dipiomi ' " 




OAOnOH.-Thl. i. the Orlslnil Extract, fnMnf,ii^li,re.l dn 
"-■ -?iil..t'>.>i>ntrii\«u.l (iniriMli-e : uvury gailTllnO Jirhcil 
M (tut <>1 bLi delegatB, Fialelsur U.ii run f ulti^uHofer. 



^.^i^ 




■• Muniu ro«p»\vs E\T«irT." 



fe 



DELICIOUS CURDS AND WHEV. 

IS A aruPLi;, certain, wn ExPEDmoua ma\"ser. 
ax USING 

WARREN'S BEGI STEBED " SWEET ESSENC E OF RENNET." 

The "BKiTiSH MrdicalJouenal" says— "The 'jrwrf essence' is: 
nearly colourless liquU, ralher sweel, and of agreeable smell. 

'• One of the recummcndations of this Essence of Rennet is the entirt 
absence of salt or dilute mineral acida." 

Fi-om the "Medical Press."— "It coaeulates very readily, am 
appears to be in every respect what it professes to be." 

Dr, Cameron says; — "I have analysed specimens of Warken'' 
EssENCS OF Rennet, as prepared by Messrs. M'Master, Hotioson 
& Co., imd have formed a highly favourable opinion of the merit; 
the article," 

SOLO BY MOST CHEMISTS, APOTflECAttlES, AND GROCERS. 

WHOLESALE LOHDOH AOENTJ : 

CROiS & BL^CKWELL, SOIlU-SQU\RE. 

MAW, SON, & TnOMPSon, ALDE;rSG\TE-3TREET, 

UAHCLAV & SO>iS, FARRlSiSDOS. 
NEWBERY &. S0.V3, ST. PAUL'S C.^URCHyARD. 



of 



PROPRIETORS ■. 

M'Master, Hodgson, & Co., C\i6m\'e.te, "aMtoXia. 



APTERTISEMENTS. Vll 



SUCCESSFUL AND POPULAR EEMEDY. 

The Medical Profession recommend the use of 

UmWS PREPARATIONS OF PEPSINE IN CASES OF INDIOESTION. 

Sold in Bottles and Boxes from 2s. 6d., by all Pharmaceutical Chemists, 

and the Manufacturers, 
THOMAS MORSON & SON, 124, Southampton-row, 

Russell-square, London. 

DIGESTION PROMOTED BY PEPSINE. Prepared 

by MORSON, and recommended by the Medical Profession. Sold in 
Bottles and Boxes from 2s. 6d., by all Pharmaceutical Chemists, and 
the Manufacturers, THOMAS MORSON & SON, 124, Southampton- 
row, Russell-square, London. 

INDIGESTION— THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. 

Adopt MORSON'S PREPARATIONS OF PEPSINE 

As the True . Remedy. 
Sold in Bottles and Boxes from 2s. 6d., by all Pharmaceutical Chemists, 

and the Manufacturers, 

THOMAS MORSON & SON, 

124, SOUTHAMPTON-ROW, RUSSELL-SQUARE, LONDON. 

LIEBIG'S EXTRACT CF MEAT, 

GENUINE, Manufactured on the Establishments of ROBERT TOOTH, Esq., 

Sydney, Australia. 

Sole Consignees— W. J. COLEMAN and CO. 

FrvfH yOHN TANNER, Esq., M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., &'c., formerly 
Sure^eon to tite Royal South Lotidon Dispensary , late Dep. Surgeon to Horsetnen- 

ferlane Gaol, &»c. 
t is with confidence I speak of the ** Liebig's Extract of Meat," as prepared and 
manufactured by R. Tooth, Esq., of Sydney. I have tested it in frequent comparison 
with other preparations sold under the name of *' Extractum Camis," and I unhesi- 
tatingly recommend "Tooth's Extract" as superior to any. Its taste is more agreeable, 
and the aroma more delicious ; besides, after my chemical analysis, I find it the best 
for the support of the human frame as a daily food for building up weak constitutions, 
and those exhausted by disease, from infancy to adolescence. 

We beg to notify that we have contracted to supply the BRITISH GOVERN- 
MENT with all the Liebig's Extract of Meat required for hospital use (home and 
foreign) during the ensuing year, thus proving the high estimation in which Mr. 
Tooth's manufacture is held — W. J. COLEMAN & CO., 13, St. Mary-at-Hill, E.C. 

BRAGG'S VP:aETABLE CHAKCOAL, 

PURE carb6"n biscuits, 

A Nutritious^ Pleasant, and Healthful Diet, 
Which has protlnc d great benefit and positive relief to thousands of sufferers from 
indigestion, bile, acidity, foul breath, (Hspepsia, heartburn, worms, piles, Ac. There 
is medical testimony to its beneficial effects in those complaiiits. 

Sold in Tins, Is., 28 , 4s., and 8s. each, by ail Chemists, and by the 
Manuraotu-er. 

Also BR^QG'S CARBONilkTED IRON TONIC BISCUITS, sold i^ 
Tina, 28., is .and Ss. each. 

J. L BRAGG, 14,WIGM0K1£.-?>T^^^'\,\K^^^^."^ 



viil ADVERTISEMENTS, 



DR. DE JONGH'S 

(Knight of the Order of Leopold of Belgium) 

UGHT-BfiOWN GOD LIVER OO, 

Prescribed by the most eminent Medical Men as the safest, speediest, and most 

effectual remedy for 

CONSUMPTION, CHRONIC BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, COUGHS, GENERAL DEBILITY, 
DISEASES OF THE SKIN, RICKETS, INFANTILE WASTING, AND ALL 

SCROFULOUS AFFECTIONS. 

Dr. DE JONGH'S COD LIVER OIL is convincingly proved by the highest 
medical testimony, and by the real test of successful experience during the last twenty 
years in all parts of the world, to be, beyond all question, the purest, the most effica- 
cious, the most palatable, and, from its rapid curative effects, the most economical 

of all kmds. 

SELECT MEDICAL OPINIONS :— 
SIR HENRY MARSH, Bart., M.D., 
Late Physician in Ordinary to the Queen in Ireland. 
*' I consider Dr. DE JONGH'S Light-Brown Cod Liver Oil to be a very pure Oil, 
not likely to create disgust, and a therapeutic agent of great value." 



DR. BANKS, 

President of the King and Queen* s College o/ Physicians in Ireland. 
** The fiu:t of so able and accurate an observer as Dr. DE JONGH subjecting the 
Oil to careful analysis previous to its exposiu-e for sale is a sufficient guarantee of its 

purity and excellence.** 

DR. CAMERON, 

Professor of Hygiene in the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland. 

'* I have invariably found Dr. DE JONGH'S Oil to be perfectly pure and of the 

best quality. Unlike most of the so-called Cod Liver Oil on sale in these countries. 

Dr. DE JONGH'S Oil is free from admixture with the oil of the livers of the ling, ray, 

and other fishes." 

DR. LANKESTER. F.RS., 
Coroner for Central Middlesex, 
" I deem the Cod Liver Oil sold under Dr. DE JONGH'S guarantee to bepreferable 
to any other kind as regards genuineness and medicinal efficacy." 

DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S., 

Author of the " Spas of Germany** 
" Dr. DE JONGH'S Light-Brown. Cod Liver Oil produces the desired effect in a 
shorter time than other kinds, and it does not cause the nausea and indigestion too 
often consequent on the administration of the Pale Oil." 

EDWIN CANTON, Esq., F.R.C.S., 

Surgeon to Charing Cross Hospital. 
" I find Dr. DE JONGH'S Cod Liver Oil to be much more efficacious than other 
varieties of the same medicine which I have also employed with a view to test their 

relative superiority." 

DR. LAWRANCE, 
Physician to the Great Northern Hospital. 
"I invariably prescribe Dr. DE JONGH'S Cod Liver Oil in preference to any other, 
feeling assured that I am recommending a genuine article^ and not a manufactured 
compound in which the efficacy of this invaluable medicine is destroyed." 

Dr. DE JONGH'S LIGHT-BROWN COD LIVER OIL is sold only in capsuled 
Imperial half-pints, as. 6d. ; pints, 4s. pd. ; quarts, 9s., by all respectable chemists 
and druggists. 

Sole Consignees, 

ANSAB, HARFORD, & CO., 77, Strand, London, W.C. 



AD VE IITISEMENTS. 




BUTTER & CHEESE. 



McMASTER, HODSSON, & OO.'S 

IHFB07ED 

FLUID EXTRACT OF ANNATTO, 

Being purely Vegetable, and of a deep and rich 
colour (as certified by Drs. Hassall and Camebon), 

IS NOW USED IN THE 

LEABIHa DAIRIES THROnOHOlTT THE WORLD 

Tax impartiDg an invLtiji^ and haj-mlesA tint. 



Wholesale— CROSSE & BLACKWELL, and the 
leadbg Wholesale Houses. 




WM. YOUNGER & Co.'s 

OCTOBER iiREWINGS OF 

nroiA PALE AM) EDINBUBGH ALES, 

MivbB«>tiliicaiu<;ukiiuailutilf ri'iira Jtuttlunsad tLeiirlnulfilUoulleraln 

Mari m cock laM, as ol/ur ii^mdi art/rrgmnlly sabstituleJ. 
BUEWERffiS-EDINBUROH. 

London Offices- Belvedere-rqad, s.e. 

INFANTS' FOOD. 




PATENT EXTRACT FOK PREPARING 

LIEBIG'S 

CONCENTRATED MILK. 

Not tarinaceons, but made from flour ti'nti stormed inlo Dextrine 
and Grape Sugar bj Liebig's Process. Bicb in glycate, nitrogenous 
matter, and jibospbales. 
Lctltr from Dr. Eustace Smlth,2a, Si. Gtorgt's-etreef, LojidoH, W. 

" Your preparation of LiEbig'a Bood is bj far.lhe best of any >yilh 
wbich I am acqaainted. Il seenia to agree equallv well with cnildren, 
whether tboy are healthy or diaeaBefl, and is well borne, as a rule, by 
the yoiingoat infants. A food whicb fqlfila these conditions require* 
little to be said to rccommcDd it, and 1 hare no douhl that it has by 
this time a very laigo sale." 

Price Is. 6d. and 23- Cd- Wholesale, 133. and 21s. per dozen . 

2J£B)G'S CONCENTRATED PATENT MILK COMPANY, 

G. MELLIN, M^>^AGER, 
'4. TICHBORNE-ST., REGE^lt-ST., Y.OW^Q^,^. 



1^ 



ADVERTISFMENTS. XI. 



COLMAN'S 

BRITISH 

CORN FLOUR, 

FREFABED FROH BICE, is not only a delicacy 

for the Healthy, but also a most wholesome 

and useful Food for Invalids and 

Children. 

J. and J. COLMAN have for a number of years been occupied in an 
endeavour to produce a Corn Floub which should form a 'wholesome 
and delicious article of diet, pure in quality and delicate in flavour. 
After many experiments, they have arrived at the conclusion that no 
grain is so suitable for the manufacture of Corn Flour as Rice. The 
Flour of Rice can be reduced to the finest powder ; it is free from all 
peculiarity of taste, and is pronounced by the highest Medical Autho- 
rities as a most wholesome and easily-digested food. 

Dr. LANKESTER, referring to this article, says :— " Rice Flour is 
Corn Flour, and I regard this preparation of Messrs. Colman's as 
superior to anything of the kind now before the public." 

Dr. CAMERON, Analyst to the City of Dublin, remarks :— " I 
have never tasted anything of the kind more agreeable in flavour, or 
so easily digested." * 

*' Under the above name, Messrs. J. & J. Colman have introduced 
a very pure and good flour. It is what it simply professes to be^a 
Ktarch-fiour, having the same qualities as arrowroot. The flour is 
prepared from Rice, is in a fine, impalpable, and pure white powder, 
and makes with milk or eggs, or with Liebig's extract of flesh and 
boiling water, a delicious and wholesome food. In the hospital and 
sick room, Colman's Flour will, we believe, soon be thoroughly ap- 
preciated. It is admirably adapted as an article of food for infants 

and young children when combined with milk We have 

satisfaction in noticing this preparation, not only on account of its 
sterling qualities, but in recognition of the unassuming and sensible 
manner in which it is introduced to the notice " 
the advantage, moreover, of being an economical 
Aoi'cm6er 2G, 18G9. 






