&TX 715 RICE, 25 CENTS. 

I .D184 
Copy 1 

Seeham receipts, 




PREPARED BT 



A PKACTICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 



JJuyhJ^i^iO 



SECOND EDITION. 



BOSTON : 

A. ^^;vIlL.LIAM:s and comifany, 

135 Washington St. (Old Corner Bookstore.) 
1871 . 





m 



P ^ 



€ 



^ 



■# 



PRICE, 2S CENTS. 



DEDHAM RECEIPTS, 



PREPARED BY 



A PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPEE. 

SECOND EDITION. '''.ltxI^~)AtX\ 



n' 



BOSTON : 

135 Washington St. (Old Corner Bookstore.) 
1 8 7 1 . 



^%^ 
^ 



,x^ 



v'^'^ 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1871, by 

OLIVE C.DANIELL, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



Norfolk County Gazette Print. 



(i. 






TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 



These Keceipts for Cooking are known to be good from personal 
knowledge and experience. 

The requisites for successful results, are a practical cook, of 

good judgment, and articles used in the preparation to be of the 
best quality. 

The cup, used for measure in cake, holds one half a pint. 

Yeast powder is much better for cake than cream tartar and 
soda. For an ordinary quantity of cake, any receipt that makes 
about two loaves, two heaping teaspoonfuls of any good yeast pow- 
der is the proper quantity to use. 

In making any cake, rub the sugar and butter together with the 
hand until it is very light and smooth; then beat the eggs very light, 
and add to the sugar; then the milk, next the flour, with the yeast 
powder mixed into it; and last, the fruit, if it is used. Cake should 
be well beaten with the hand until it bubbles. 



CONTENTS. 



CAKE. 

Sponge Cake, 9 

Nantucket Plum Cake, 9 

Chocolate Cake, 9 

Vanilla Wafers, 9 

Pound Cake, 10 

Cocoanut Cake, 10 

Lemon Cake, 10 

Providence Cake, 10 

Connecticut Loaf Cake, 10 

Coflee Cake, 11 

Hard Gingerbread, .* - 11 

Wedding Cake, 11 

Snow Cake, 11 

Boston Cake, 11 

Mountain Cake, 11 

Cocoanut Cake, 12 

Fruitcake, 12 

Cream Cakes, 12 

For the Cream, . . . . " 12 

Doughnuts, 12 

Pancakes, 13 

Molasses Gingerhrer.d, 13 

Quincy Cake, , ... 13 

Feather Cake, 13 

Foam Cake, 13 

Clove Cake, 13 

Variety Cake, 14 

Cider Cake U 

New York Gingerbread. 14 

Hard Gingerbread, 14 

PUDDINGS. 

English Plum Pudding, H 

Baked Indian Pudding, 15 

Boiled Indian Pudding, 15 

Hartford Pudding, 15 



VI CONTENTS. 

English Plum Pudding, . , 15 

Queen Pudding, 16 

Chocolate Pudding, 16 

Pop Overs, 16 

Cottage Pudding, , . . . , .16 

German Toast, : 16 

Thanksgiving Plum Pudding, . 17 

Eice Pudding, 17 

Eice Balls, 17 

Tapioca Pudding, 17 

Batter Pudding, .17 

Ohio Wedding Pudding, 18 

Tapioca Pudding, IS 

PIES. 

Mince Pies, 18 

Dinner Pie, - , 18 

Marlboro' Pie, • ... 19 

Lemon Tarts, 19 

Chocolate Pie, 19 

Cream Pie, 19 

SWEET DISHES. 

Wine Jelly, 20 

Velvet Cream, 20 

Fruit Ice, 20 

Charlotte de Eusse, 20 

Dish of Snow, 21 

Laura's Dessert, 21 

Lizzie's Dessert, 21 

Orange Pudding, , 21 

BEEAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Parker House Eolls, 22 

Cream Tartar Biscuit, 22 

Tea Biscuit, 22 

Pone, 22 

Brooklyn Tea Cake, 23 

Eye Muffins, 23 

Western Corn Bread, 23 

Dixon Tea Cake, 23 

Indian Breakfast Cake, 23 

Muffins, 23 

Strawberry Short Cake, 2-t 



CONTENTS. Vll 

PICKLES. 

Chopped Pickle, . . , . • 24 

Sweet Pickles, 24 

Pickled Cucumbers, . * 25 

Spiced Currants, 25 

Sweet Tomato Pickle, 25 

Sweet Melon Pickle, . . . , , 25 

Pickled Tomatoes, ...... , . , . 26 

Pickled Oysters, 26 

JELLIES AND CANNED FEUITS. 

Cider Apple Jelly, 27 

Porter Apple Jelly, 27 

Preserved Pine Apples, 27 

Preserved Grapes, 27 

Currant Jelly, 28 

Apple Ginger, 28 

Canned Fruits, 28 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Very Nice Baked Fish, 29 

Omelet No. 1, 29 

Omelet Nd. 2, 30 

Veal Loaf, 30 

Cold Slaw, . . . . • 30 

Welsh Rarebit, 30 

Escalloped Oysters, 30 

Pressed Beef, 31 

Tomato Ketchup, , 31 

Currant Wine, 31 

Salad Dressing, 32 

Sauce for Wild Game, 32 



DEDHAM RECEIPTS. 



CAKE. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Take any even number of eggs. Take the weight 
of the eggs in sugar, and the weight of half the 
eggs in flour. Beat the yolks very light, beat in the 
sugar, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Sift 
in the flour. Ten eggs will make two good loaves. 

NANTUCKET PLUM CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, four cupfuls of sugar, two 
cupfuls of milk, three eggs, six cupfuls of flour, 
heaped, one pound of raisins, one teaspoonful of 
soda, spice. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, five eggs, leaving out the whites of 
two, three and one half cupfuls of flour — scant 
measure — one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one half 
teaspoonful of soda. For the frosting : Whites of 
two eggs, one and one half cupfuls of sugar, six 
large tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. Frost 
while the cake is hot. 

VANILLA WAFERS. 

One cupful of sugar, two thirds cupful of butter, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of 



10 



vanilla, one eggy one and one half teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, two thirds teaspoonful of soda, flour 
enough to roll out well. Roll very thin. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one and one half pounds of 
sugar, one and one half pounds of flour, one pint 
of eggs ; the whites of eggs for bride's cake. Break 
the eggs and measure one pint In a quart measure. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four 
cupfuls of flour, one cupful of cocoanut, one half 
cupful of milk, whites of six eggs, yeast powder. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, three cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, four cupfuls of flour, five eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, juice and rind of one lemon. 

PROVIDENCE CAKE. 

One and three fourths pounds of flour, one and 
one fourth pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, 
two pounds of fruit, one pint of milk, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda. 

CONNECTICUT LOAF CAKE. 

Two pounds of light dough, one pound of sugar, 
one half pound of butter, three eggs, spice, brand}', 
and fruit if you like. Rub the butter and sugar 
together, and the dough ; then add the other in- 
gredients ; let it rise before baking. 



11 



COFFEE CAKE. 

Five cupfiils of flour, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of molasses, one and one half cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of raisins, one cupful of currants, one 
cupful of strong coffee, one teaspoonful of soda in 
the coffee, one teaspoonful each, of different spices. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, flour enough to roll out. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one 
pound of sugar, four pounds of raisins, three pounds 
of currants, three fourths pound of citron, twelve 
eggs, one half pint of brandy, four large nutmegs, 
four tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls 
of clove, three of allspice, one teaspoonful of soda. 

SNOW CAKE. 

The whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one 
coffee cupful of flour, one and one half of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, a pinch of salt. 

BOSTON CAKE. 

One half cupful of melted butter, one cupful of 
sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one half cupful of milk, 
two eggs, yeast powder. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one half 



12 



pound of butter, five eggs, soda, one cup of milk, 
one gill of brandy. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cofiee cupful of butter, three of sugar, one of 
milk, four and one half of flour, one of cocoanut, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. 

FKUIT CAKE. 

One and one half pounds of sugar, one and one 
half of flour, one of butter, one of raisins, one of 
currants, one fourth of citron, one wineglassful of 
brandy, one half pint of milk, one half teaspoonful 
of soda, six eggs, mace and nutmegs. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One pint of water, one half pound of butter, three 
fourths pound of flour, ten eggs. Boil the water and 
butter together, stir in the flour while boiling, then 
let it cool, and add the eggs well beaten, with a 
small teaspoonful of soda. Drop them on tins, and 
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

FOR THE CREAM. 

One cup of flour, two cupfuls of sugar, one quart 
of milk, four eggs. Boil the milk, beat the eggs, 
sugar, and flour together, and stir into the milk 
while boiling, until it thickens ; season it. When 
the cakes are baked, open them and fill them with 
the cream. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One half cupful of butter, one cupful of sour milk, 



13 



one and one half cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg, flour to make it stiff 
enough to roll. 

PANCAKES. 

Two eggs, one pint of sour milk, small piece of 
butter, sugar, two teaspoonfuls of soda, flour. Drop 
from a spoon into hot lard. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Three cupfuls of molasses, one and one half eup- 
fuls of sour milk or water, one half cupful of but- 
ter, three teaspoonfuls of soda, two eggs, a little 
ginger, flour. 

QUINCY CAKE. 

One half cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, three cui^fuls of flour, two eggs, yeast 
powder. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, two and 
one half cupfuls of flour, one egg, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar. 

FOAIM CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
flour, yeast powder. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

One half pound of flour, one half pound of sugar, 
one half pound of raisins, one fourth pound of but- 
ter, two eggs, one half teacupful of milk, one half 
tablespoonful of ground cloves, one half teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one half teaspoonful of soda. 



14 

VARIETY CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four 
cupfuls of flour, one cupful of milk, four eggs, yeast 
powder. Flavor with vanilla, or use citron, currants, 
or cocoanut. Very nice for Washington pies. 

CIDER CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, two 
pounds of flour, one pint of cider, four eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, fruit and spice. 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, one 
cupful of milk, one half cupful of butter, three eggs, 
tw^o tablespoonfuls of yellow ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, salt. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Sift two pounds of flour into a deep pan, rub in 
three fourths pound of butter, mix in one pound of 
powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls of ginger ; 
beat four eggs A^ery light, and mix with the other 
ingredients, together with a teaspoonful of soda in a 
wineglassful of sour milk. 



PUDDINGS. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 



One half pound of beef suet, three eggs, one cup- 
ful of milk, one half cupful of raisins, one half cup- 



15 

ful of currants, little citron, wine glassful of brandy, 
nutmeg, three cupfuls of flour. Boil four hours. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil two quarts of milk. Add thirteen table- 
spoonfuls of Indian meal moistened with a little milk ; 
when it thickens, pour into a deep pudding-pan. 
Add one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Before you put it in the oven, add a pint more of 
cold milk, and do not stir it. Bake three or four 
hours. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One pint of Indian meal. Mix with sour milk 
with soda in it. Add molasses, salt, and suet 
chopped fine. Boil four hours. 

HARTFORD PUDDING. 

One half loaf of any stale cake except sponge. 
Pour over it two wine glassfuls of wine. Beat three 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and pour 
on them one pint of boiling milk ; pour it over the 
cake, beat it well, and steam in a mould one hour 
and one fourth. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One half pound of bread-crumbs, one half pound 
of flour, one pound of suet, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of currants, 
one half-pound of citron, eight eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful each of all spices but cloves, one half tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
teacupful of brandy, one gill of wine. At night, rub 



16 



the suet into the flour. Add the fruit, spices, wine, 
and brandy ; cover it and let it stand until morning. 
Soak the bread-crumbs in as little milk as will make 
them soft ; beat them thoroughly ; add the beaten 
eggs. Then mix all together, and put into moulds. 
Steam six hours. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

One pint of bread-crumbs grated, one quart of 
milk, yolks of four eggs, one half cup of sugar, rind 
of one lemon. After baking, spread on a layer of 
currant jelly. Beat the whites of the eggs with a 
cup of sugar, spread on the top, and brown. Eat 
cold. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Two tablespoonfuls of chocolate, four tablespoons- 
ful of corn starch. Mix in a quart of boiling milk, 
and boil five minutes. 

POP OVERS. 

Two cups of milk, two cups of flour, two eggs, 
salt. To be baked in cups, and served with sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One half cup of sugar, one of egg, two and one 
half spoonfuls of melted butter, one cup of milk, one 
pint of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar. To be eaten with hot sauce. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut stale bread into slices. Make a custard of 
milk with two beaten eggs ; soak the bread in this, 
then fry in butter. To be eaten with hot sauce. 



17 



THANKSGIVING PLUM PUDDING. 

Boil one pound of raisins in two quarts of milk. 
Take out the raisins, and add to the boiled milk ten 
eggs, well beaten, considerable sugar, and a little 
salt ; season with spices or vanilla. Cut a stale 
brick-loaf of baker's bread into thin slices, butter 
them and soak them in the custard. Butter a deep 
pudding-pan, and put in alternate layers of the 
soaked bread and the raisins, till the pan is full. 
Let this stand over night, and in the morning fill up 
with milk. Bake two and one half hours in a slow 
oven. Eat with cold sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one small teacupful of rice, su- 
gar. Bake one hour, stirring frequently the first half 
hour. 

RICE BALLS. 

Boil a small bowl of rice, salt it, add a small 
piece of butter ; let it cool, and when ready to fry, 
beat up four eggs, and mix it well. If thin add a 
spoonful of flour. Fry them brown. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one teacupful of tapioca, four 
eggs, sugar, salt, a little nutmeg, or slice an orange 
and lay on the top. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, one pint of ber- 
ries, three eggs. Bake one hour. 



18 



OHIO WEDDmG PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cnpful of milk, four cup- 
fuls of flour, one cupful of raisins, one half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one nutmeg, cinnamon, boil one half cup- 
ful of butter with the molasses. Boil three hours in 
a pudding-boiler. To be eaten with hot sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Four tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked in a little 
water, one quart of milk ; when it boils, add the 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, with sugar, salt, and 
the tapioca. When it thickens pour into a dish and 
cool. Frost it with the whites of the eggs, and 
brown it. 



PI ES. 



MINCE PIE. 

Three pounds of meat after it is boiled, three 
pounds of suet chopped fine, six pounds of apples 
^chopped, three pounds of raisins chopped, three 
ipounds of currants, one pound of citron, two pounds 
of sugar, one quart of brandy, one quart of nice bot- 
tled cider, two teaspoonfuls each mace, allspice, 
■cinnamon, one of cloves, two nutmegs, grated rind 
of three lemons, one half teacupful of salt. Sweeten 
with molasses. 

DINNER PIE. 

One crust baked and then filled with stewed ap- 
ples. Beat together the whites of two eggs and four 



19 



tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread over the top, and 
brown. 

MARLBORO PIE. 

Three large spoonfuls of butter, three apples 
cooked and strained, three spoonfuls of sugar, three 
eggs, little lemon. Bake like a custard pie. 

LEMON TARTS, 

One large lemon, two eggs, butter size of half an 
Ggg^ one cup of sugar ; beat well together with the 
grated rind of part of the lemon, one third of a tea- 
cupful of water. Boil about twenty minutes, or un- 
til it thickens. Bake rich puff paste, and then fill 
them with the lemon. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Two coffee-cupfuls of sugar, three of flour, one of 
milk, a small piece of butter, three eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda ; bake in 
Washington pie tins. Make a frosting of the whites 
of two eggs, and brown it. For the filling : One 
half a pound of sweet vanilla chocolate, one teacupful 
of powdered sugar, yolks of two eggs, one cupful of 
boiling milk. This will make three pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, in the dry flour, 
one half teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of 
milk, bake in Washington pie tins. For the cream : 
One half pint of boiled milk, two eggs, one cupful 



20 



of sugar, one half cupful of flour. Beat all together 
and stir into the boiling milk. Flavor to taste. 



SWEET DISHES. 



WINE JELLY. 



A shilling box of gelatine, slice two lemons, a 
pint of cold water. Let it stand two hours. Add 
one quart of boiling water, one pint of wine, one 
pint of sugar. Strain through a flannel bag. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a tumbler of 
wine. Add the peel and juice of one lemon, sugar, 
to one quart of cream. Put in a mould to cool. 

FRUIT ICE. 

Juice of three lemons, one quart of boiling water, 
one quart of sugar, one half pint of fruit of any kind, 
pine-apple, peaches, strawberries, etc. Let it stand 
until cold, then freeze it. 

CHARLOTTE DE RUSSE. 

One quart of rich sweet cream, one half pound of 
powdered sugar, vanilla, beat to a strong froth. 
To stifl"en the cream, boil half an ounce of gelatine 
in half a pint of milk until perfectly dissolved ; stir 
it while it cools to prevent its stiffening partially. 
When cool, stir it quickly into the cream, and beat 
together a few minutes. Line your moulds with 



21 



sponge cake, put in the mixture, and set in a very 
cool place. Add eggs if you like. 

DISH OF SNOW. 

Soak one half ounce of gelatine, add one pint of 
boiling water ; when cool, add the whites of three 
eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, the juice of one lemon ; 
beat one hour, and and put it in a mould. Scald 
a pint of milk, add the yolks of three eggs, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn starch, vanilla. 
"When cool, put the snow in a glass dish, put the cus- 
tard around it. 

LAURA'S DESSERT. 

Pulp of three baked apples, the white of one egg^ 
one smal] cupful of powdered sugar. Well beaten 
one hour or more. To be eaten with soft custard. 

LIZZIE'S DESSERT. 

Pare and cut in small bits nice oranges, pine ap- 
ples, and bananas. Put all together in a deep glass 
dish with sugar enough to sweeten, and grate cocoa- 
nut over the top until it looks like a snow bank. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and cut in bits five oranges, rejecting the 
seeds. Sprinkle a cupful of sugar over it. Boil a 
pint of milk to which add the yolks of three eggs, 
well beaten, with one tablespoonful of corn starch ; 
when it thickens pour it over the fruit. Beat the 
whites of the eggs with a tablespoonful of white su- 
gar, frost the pudding and brown it. Eat cold or 
hot. Substitute strawberries or peaches if you like. 



22 

BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, one tablespoonful of lard- 
rubbed into the flour, one pint of cold boiled milk, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one half cupful of 
yeast, a little salt. Mix it at noon, knead it and set 
to rise ; the next morning knead again, and set again 
to rise ; at noon knead again, roll it thin, cut them 
out round, butter one half, and turn them over 
even, set them to rise in the pans. Bake for supper 
about ten minutes. 

CREAM TARTAR BISCUIT. 

One quart of sifted flour, butter the size of an 
egg, a little salt, one and one half teacupfuls of 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar put into the 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little 
water, roll out, cut the biscuit, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

One pint of boiled milk, one cupful of butter in 
the milk, after it is boiled, stir in six cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of yeast, flour to beat with a 
spoon like bread ; tablespoonful of sugar in the 
milk. Mix in the morning for tea. Knead thor- 
oughl3\ Let them rise in the pan half an hour, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

PONE. 

One pint of milk, one pint of Indian meal scalded, 
one half pint of flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls 



23 



of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of 
soda, a little salt. Stir lively five minutes. 

BROOKLYN TEA CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of flour, mix in two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar, stir in two cupfuls of sugar, and a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Break three eggs 
in the flour without beating ; one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in milk, and turned on the mixture. 
Mix with milk as thick as hasty pudding. Beat 
smartly and bake immediately. 

KYE MUFFINS. 

Four cupfuls of rye meal, two cupfuls of milk, 
one half cupful of molasses, two eggs, a little salt, a 
teaspoonful of soda. 

WESTERN CORN BREAD. 

Three cupfuls of flour, four cupfuls of corn meal, 
two thirds cupful of molasses, one egg, one quart of 
sour milk, soda and salt. Steam thi-ee hours and 
bake half an hour. 

DIXON TEA CAKE. 

One half cupful of butter, one half cupful of sugar, 
one and one half cupfuls of milk, three cupfuls of 
flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
one of soda. 

INDIAN BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of corn meal, one cupful of flour, 
two cupfuls of cold water, two spoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. 

MUFFINS. 

Three cupfuls of flour, one half cupful of butter, 



24 



one and one half cupfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cream tartar, 
one of soda. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, butter the size of an 
egg ; mix with milk very soft and bake quickly. 
Split in two or three parts ; butter one of the parts, 
sprinkle sugar on, and then put on a layer of straw- 
berries, and cover them with milk or cream ; lay on 
the other part, and sprinkle fine sugar on top. If 
the cake is in three parts, make two layers of the 
berries. This is a good rule for any fruit. 



PICKLES. 



CHOPPED PICKLE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, two quarts of onions, 
two quarts of peppers. Chop them fine, separately ; 
save the water from the tomatoes j^ou chop, and mix 
with them altogether ; add three cupfuls of salt, and 
let them stand over night, then drain it well. Add 
one half pound of mustard-seed, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground allspice, two of ground cloves, one cupful 
of grated horse-radish. Pour on three quarts of boil- 
ing A^negar. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

For apples, pears, peaches, or any fruit. Stick a 
few cloves in the fruit, and cook in a syrup of three 



25 

pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar to six pounds 
of fruit. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Four hundred small cucumbers, one half peck of 
peppers, two quarts of small onions ; one pint of 
salt to a gallon of water ; cover the pickles with the 
boiling brine, and let them stand until morning. 
Make a new brine the second morning, and the third 
scald it again. The fourth morning, rinse them well 
in cold water, and then cover them with boiling vin- 
egar ; put in a little piece of alum. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Six pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, 
one pint of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 
two tablespoonfuls of clove, a little salt. Boil to a 
jam. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck of green tomatoes and six large onions, 
sliced ; sprinkle with salt and let them stand over 
night, then drain it. Add two quarts of water and 
one quart of vinegar, and boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain it. Add two pounds of sugar, two quarts of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of clove, two of allspice, 
two of ginger, two of mustard, two of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and boil fifteen 
minutes. 

SWEET MELON PICKLE. 

Select fine cantelope or citron melons, ripe but 
firm ; pare and seed them, slice or quarter them. To 



26 



five pounds of melon allow two and one half pounds 
of sugar, and one quart of vinegar. The vinegar 
and sugar must be heated, well skimmed, and poured 
boiling hot over the fruit, six times. In the last 
boiling of the syrup add the spices, stick cinnamon, 
white ginger, and a few cloves. When the syrup 
boils, put in the melon and boil it ten minutes, ; then 
put it in jars, and skim the syrup clear, and pour 
over it. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 

One peck of green tomatoes cut in thin slices ; 
sprinkle them with salt, and let them remain two 
days, then drain them. Twelve onions sliced thin, 
one small box of mustard, one fourth pound of mus- 
tard seed, one ounce of ground allspice, one ounce 
of ground cloves, one ounce of ground pepper. Mix 
the spices together ; put in the kettle in layers of 
tomatoes, onions, and spice, cover with vinegar, and 
let them cook slowly, until the tomato looks clear. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Scald and skim the liquor ; put in the oysters, 
and let them come to a boil. Take them from the 
boiling liquor, and throw them into ice tvater. Put 
into the hot liquor whole pepper corns, whole all- 
spice, blades of mace, and a very few cloves, and let 
it boil up once. To one quart of the liquor add one 
pint of vinegar. Drain the oysters from the water, 
pour the liquor over them, and in twenty four hours 
they are ready for use. 



27 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUIT. 

CIDER APPLE JELLY. 

Take any good apples, wipe clean and cut into 
quarters ; put in a kettle and cover them with siveet 
new cider, just from the press. Boil until well done ; 
then drain through a sieve, but do not press the pulp 
through ; measure, and to each pint add one pound 
of white sugar, and boil from twenty minutes to half 
an hour. 

PORTER APPLE JELLY. 

Take nice porter apples, wipe, and place them 
whole in a kettle, cover with water, and cook them 
well. Drain through a sieve, but not press it through. 
To each pint add one pound of sugar, and boil a 
long time, until it is quite red. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare the pineapples, and then grate them. To 
each pound of the grated pineapple add a pound of 
sugar ; let it stand over night, and in the morning 
put over the fire and give it one good boil. 

PRESERVED GRAPES. 

Squeeze the pulp of the grapes out of the skins. 
Cook the pulp a few minutes, until you can press it 
all through a sieve, rejecting the seeds. Add a little 
water to the skins, and cook until they are quite 
tender ; then put skins and pulp together, measure, 
and to each pint add a pound of sugar, and boil all 
together fifteen minutes. 



28 



CURRANT JELLY. 

Press all the juice from the currants, and strain 
it. Measure it, and for each pint take one pound of 
sugar. Put the sugar in a preserving kettle, with a 
little water, and boil it until the water is all boiled 
out ; then pour the currant juice into it, and boil 
from twenty minutes to half an hour. Take off the 
scum that rises on it as it boils. 

APPLE GINGER. 

Four pounds each of apples and brown sugar. 
Clarify the sugar, and add the apple chopped fine, 
also one ounce of white ginger root, and the grated 
rind of three lemons. Boil several hours, until it 
looks clear. This will keep for years. 

CANNED FRUITS. 

Peaches, pears, and quinces should be skinned, 
cut in halves, and the seeds taken out ; the stones 
should be taken from cherries ; leave the stones in 
plums. Allow one fourth of a pound of sugar to 
each pound of any fruit, except quinces or crab- 
apple ; those require more sugar. Put the sugar in 
a preserving kettle with a great deal of water ; as 
soon as it boils put in the fruit and cook until it is 
tender. Peaches and all small fruits cook in a very 
few minutes. Have a kettle of hot water on the 
stove beside your preserving kettle, and a little 
dipper of hot water beside. Plunge a glass jar into 
the hot water, and drop the metallic top in the 
dipper ; have the water strike the jar both inside and 



29 



outside together ; if you set it down in, it will break. 
When the jar is hot, lift it up and pour the water 
from it into the kettle ; stand the jar in the hot 
water, and fill it with the hot fruit from the preserv- 
ing kettle ; fill to the brim with the syrup, take the 
hot cover from the dipper, and screw it on ; lift the 
jar from the kettle, and screw the top on very tight ; 
turn the jar upside down for a moment, to be sure 
it is tight. If fruit is properly put up, there is no 
chance for failure. It will keep for years. The 
surest way is to taste the syrup and sweeten to suit. 
Any fruit that grows may be preserved in this way. 
The Mason jar is one of the best. 

Jellies and sweet preserves should be covered with 
a paper cut to fit the top of the jar and wet in brandy. 
Then tie a paper over it, tight. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

VERY NICE BAIiED FISH. 

A haddock w^eighing three pounds. Boil an hour 
gently and take out the bones, then put in a pud- 
ding dish. One quart of milk, one and one half 
tablespoonfuls of flour, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, salt, pepper, and one onion chopped fine. 
Turn this over the fish, and sprinkle bread-crumbs 
on the top. Bake. ♦ 

OMELET, NO. 1. 

Six eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of flour, 
two of milk, salt. 



30 



OI»IELET, NO. 2. 

Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately, 
then together ; salt. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of raw veal chopped fine, one fourth 
pound raw salt pork chopped, one cup of pounded 
cracker, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of popper, three 
of salt, one large spoonful of sage. Mix thoroughly ; 
press into a dish. Bake two hours. 

COLD SLAW. 

Cut cabbage as fine as possible. Tablespoonful 
of flour beaten with one egg, one half cupful of cold 
water and one half cupful of vinegar ; place on the 
fire, and stir until it boils ; a little salt. When cold 
pour it on the cabbage. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One pound of cheese cut in small bits, a small 
piece of butter, very little salt, pepper, one beaten 
egg. Stir into the e^gg a large teaspoonful of mixed 
mustard, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Melt the 
cheese and butter in a pan, stirring it while meMng ; 
when thoroughly melted, add the eggs, give i '« one 
stir, and pour it over hot toast. Be sure to have 
the dish you put it on very hot. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Buy solid oysters, wash them clean and drain 
them. Butter a deep dish, and line it with crack- 
er-crumbs. Put in a layer of oysters, some inis of 



31 



butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little wine ; 
cover it over with milk ; then another laj^er of 
cracker-crumbs, and so on until the dish is full. 
Cover the top w4th dry crumbs so that it will brown 
nicely. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Two or three pounds of beef, such as you buy for 
a stew. Boil till tender, chop it fine, season with 
sage, salt, and pepper, and press it. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Skin the tomatoes, and squeeze them through a 
sieve very dry. To five pints of the pulp and juice 
add three pints of the best vinegar. Boil it over a 
slow fire until it begins to thicken ; then add one 
tablespoonful each of ground cloves, allspice, cin- 
namon, and pepper, with three powdered nutmegs. 
Boil it to the consistency of thin mush ; then add 
one and one half tablespoonfuls of fine salt. Pour 
it out of the kettle, and when cold bottle, cork, 
and seal it. It should be boiled in brass or bell- 
metal. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Squeeze the currants. To one quart of juice add 
two quarts of water, three pounds of sugar ; mix it 
w^ell, strain it into a cask, put the bung in slightly, 
and let it remain two days, and then drive it in tight. 
Draw it off" and bottle it the 1 st of January. 

One bushel of carrants will make thirteen gallons 
of wine. 



32 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take the yolks of a dozen eggs ; beat them well ; 
add a large bottle of sweet olive oil in very small 
quantities, beating continuall}'', until it is quite thick. 
It should be beaten a long time. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, after they are beaten to a stiff 
froth. Take three heaping teaspoonfuls of dry mus- 
tard, a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of sugar, a 
little cayenne pepper ; mix with thick sweet cream, 
and add to the eggs. Add a pint or more of cream. 
This will keep some time, if bottled and corked 
tight. Add vinegar to your taste, when you use 
the dressing. It is very good without cream. 

SAUCE FOR WILD GAME. 

Two wineglassfuls of port wine, and one wine- 
glassful of currant jelly melted together ; add a very 
little cayenne pepper, one half teaspoonful of salt. 
Pour the drippings of the roast over this. Put in 
the gravy boat a slice of lemon before you pour this 
in. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 488 167 9 



