Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



^^^1 


^1 


1 


DIET A^D KEGI}iE:N" 
SICKNESS AND HEALTH. 
^^ DR, DOB ELL. 


\ 

1 


^H FIFTH EDITIOH 



ON 



DIET AND EEGIMEN 



IN 



SICKNESS AND HEALTH 



AND 



ON THB INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION OF DISEASES 
AND THB DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY 



BT 



HORACE DOBELL, M.D. 

SENIOR PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR DISEASES OF THE CHEST; 
PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL ALBERT ORPHAN ASYLUM, 

ETC., ETC. 



FIFTH AND REVISED EDITION. 



LONDON : 
H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W.C. 

1872. 



Jtt "^mamm 



Once more i may repeat thi thanks, 



EXPRESSED IN ALL THE FORMER EDITIONS OF THIS WORK, 



FOR THE GENEROUS ASSISTANCE I HAD RECEIVED 



IN MY SCIENTIFIC CALCULATIONS 



FROM THE ARITHMETICAL SKILL OF MY DEAR OLD FRIEND 



J. J. PAEEANTS, F.E.C.S. 



LATE PRESIDENT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL SOCIETY,* 



WHOSE GENIAL SPIRIT 



HAS NOW FOR EVER PASSED 



BEYOND THE REGIONS OF SCIENCE AND CALCULATION 



TO 



<( 



THAT UNKNOWN, TRACKLESS LAND, FUTURITY; 



GREAT HERITAGE, WHERE NO MAN KNOWS HIS PART. 



)f 



PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION. 



This work was much enlarged and nearly re-written in 
its last edition just two years ago, and it has now been 
thoroughly revised. 

Much new matter has been introduced, and some of the 
old re-arranged. 

With the valuable assistance of my friend Mr. J. L. 
Johnston, late Principal Inspector of Customs Laboratories, 
the Alcohol Table has been completely re-cast, and is now, 
I believe, as nearly perfect as it is possible to make it. 
The Articles on Wines and on House-Drainage and the 
Orphanage Diet Table are quite new; and other alterations 
will be found, which I hope will make the book more 
worthy of the favourable reception it has already 
received. 

84 Harley Street. May, 1872. 



PREFACE TO FOURTH EDITION. 



My " Manual of Diet and Regimen" which appeared in 
1864 having run through two editions in its first year, I 
published a third and revised edition in January, 1865. 
This has long been out of print and, as the demand for 
the Manual did not decrease, I have been repeatedly 
urged to prepare a fourth edition. After many delays, 
from the interruption of other professional work, I have, 
at last, rewritten the book, adding much new matter and 
incorporating several contributions, which I have pub- 
lished from time to time, on subjects relating to the pre- 
servation of health. I hope it will be found that I have 
thus materially increased the usefulness of the work with- 
out adding inconveniently to its length. My object and 
endeavour has been to produce a small book founded 
upon accurate scientific data but essentially practical : a 
book from which a doctor may refresh his memory, and 
at the same time one which he may safely place in the 
hands of his patients, to enlighten them on some of those 
important points which ought to be understood by the 
non-professional, and to teach them how vast and intri- 
cate is the science and art of rational medicine. Thus, to 
make them more intelligent patients^ and in so doing to 



• •• 



VUl PREFACE. 

remove some of the doctor's difficulties in healing them 
when they are sick, and when they are well to strengthen 
his hands in the preservation of their health. 

It gives me great pleasure to be able to renew the 
thanks I expressed in 1864 to my friend Mr. Farrants, at 
that time President of the Microscopical Society, for the 
valuable assistance I have so frequently received from his 
remarkable analytical and arithmetical talenbs. 

84 Harley Street. May, 1870. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 



PBELIMINABT BEMABKS. 



PAGE 



The Interdependence of Diseases — ^Narrow Specialities and Broad De- 
partments in the Practice of Medicine — ^Normal Diet — Errors in 
Diet— The Diet of Disease— Food, Heat, and Motion— Getting fat 
and getting thin — ^Alcohol,- its proper place in Diet — ^Begimen — 
The regulation of habits — ^Honse Drainage — Importance of sleep — 
Proper hours for meals— Disinfection — Pseudo-medical Dogmas, 
Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, Einesipathy, and Bational 
Medicine 



CHAPTER II. 

BULES FOB PBOMOTING AND MAINTAINING VIGOBOUS 
HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN THE CLIMATE OF THE 
UNITED KINGDOM. 

Ventilation and Heating — Gas — House drainage — Clothing and Protec- 
tion from Cold— Sleep— 'London Noise and London Sleep — Exercise 
Posture — Bathing — ^Begulation of the Bowels — ^Best and Change 
"-^moking-^Meals— Proper Hours for Meals . . • • • 12 



CHAPTER III. 



POOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

A ftMt-pound a foot-ton a British unit of heat — ^Mechanical-Equivalent 
of a British unit of heat— Combustion of Carbon, Consumption of 
Oxygen, Evolution of Heat — ^Mode in which the heat evolved from 
food is disposed of— Composition of some of the principle articles of 
food and their Heat-Equivaleuts . * . i . . • 



48 



X CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER IV. 

NORMAL DIET. 

PAGE 

EBsentials of a Normal Diet — ^mode of constructing diets — expensive 
diets and cheap diets for maintaining health — tables and analyses . 62 

CHAPTER V. 

FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

Acid and Sugar in Spirituous Liquors — ^Ardent Spirits and their 
Peculiarities — Administration of Aleohol — Properties of various 
Wines — Wines in general — Spanish Wines — Greek Wines — German 
Wines — Hungarian Wines — ^Alcohol table showing the analysis of 
Spirituous Liquors 61 

CHAPTER VI. 

■ 

FAT. 

Fat Essential to Healthy Nutrition — Importance of difitinguishing 
between Solid and Liquid Fat — Bantingism — Getting Fat and 
getting Thin— Analysis of Banting-diet, showing its Errors and 
Advantages 80 

CHAPTER VII. 

ON SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

On the Diet of Sickness — Principles upon which to arrange the Diet of 
Disease — Rules for carrjring out these Principles — Examples of Diets 
for Consumption, and for Diabetes 87 

CHAPTER VIII. 

DISINFECTION. 

Media by which the Catching Diseases are Communicated — Means for 
Preventing Infection and Contagion — Directions for the Sick Room 
and Attendants — Precautions to be used by Doctors — Mode of 
Cleansing Apartments after Illness— Proper Methods of using 
Chloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid, Condy's Fluid and Chloralum . 102 

CHAPTER IX. 

SPECIAL RECIPES, DIRECTIONS, AND APPLIANCES FOR 
THE SICK-ROOM 109 



CONTENTS. 



XI 



CHAPTER X. 

ON THB OXBMB AND VBSTIGES OF DISEASE AND ON THE 
PEEVENTION OF THE INVASION AND FATALITY OF DIS- 
EASE. 

PAGB 

The Duties of JMedical Ken — ^The Interdependence of Diseases shewing 
the importaace of Periodical Examinations— Ansamia and Fatty 
Degeneration as Vestiges of Disease— Abnormal Physiological 
States, Conditions not recognised as disease but which certainly are 
not health . . . .118 

APPENDIX. 

1. Article from Lancet on Alcohol 15& 

2. Extracts from Dr. Parkes on Alcohol 162 

3. London Noise and London Sleep 172 

4. Dnst and Disease 179 

5. Bread Diet, and Typhus Feyer 182 

6. Pancreatic Emulsion 185 



ON 



DIET, REGIMEN, 



CHAPTEB I. 
PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

The Intesdefsndencb of Diseases — ^Nabbow Specialities 

AND BSOAD DeFABTMSNTS IN THE PbACTICE OF MeDICINS — 

Normal Diet — Erbobs in Diet — ^The Diet of Disease 
— ^Pood, Heat, and Motion — Getting fat and getting 
THIN — ^Alcohol, its proper place in Diet — Regimen — 
The regulation of habits — House-drainage — ^Impor- 
tance OF SLEEP — Proper hours for meals — ^Disinfec- 
tion — Pseudo-medical Dogmas, Allopathy, Hydropa- 
thy, HoMOSOPATHY, EjNESIPATHY, AND EATIONAL MEDI- 
CINE. 

In the practice of Rational Medicine, there are many 
subjects upon which the wise Physician is always glad to 
find that his patient has some knowledge as well himself. 
Among these I know of none more important than the 
interdependence of Diseases and the principles of Diet 
and Regimen. 

There are few medical questions which so test the depth 
and extent of a doctor's acquirements as the intbrdepen- 
DENCE OF DISEASES — ^by which I mean, the way in which 
one disease leads to another, substitutes another, aggra- 
vates, or reheves another; the way in which disease 
appearing at one part of the body, depends upon the 
derangement of another part, perhaps distantly separated; 
the way in wHch disease of one kind in an ancestor, leads 

B 



2 PBELIHINABT REMARKS 

to disease of several different kinds in the descendants ; 
the way in which one general morbid cause may produce 
different effects upon different persons, according to the 
conditions of health in which they happen to be at the 
time ; and numberless other similar phenomena. 

These are matters of the highest importance in the right 
management and treatment of disease, yet they are so lit- 
tle understood that the pains taken by a conscientious 
doctor in their investigation are not appreciated by the 
majority of persons. Thus it is that patients so often fail 
to discriminate between the wisdom of the man who will 
not prescribe for a part of the body until he has learnt 
the condition of the whole, and the ad ca/ptaiidum ignor- 
ance of another man who will prescribe unhesitatingly for 
a disorder of the whole body without previously ascertain- 
ing whether it depends upon disease of a part. 

The chief objection to specialities in medical practice is 
the danger, that the doctor who treats but one part of the 
body may lose sight of the interdependence of diseases. 
This must always be a grave objection to very narrow 
specialities, but it does not apply to the broad division of 
the practice of medicine into B&pa/riments — ^that is to say, 
such a reasonable application of the principles of the 
" division of labour*^ as shall enable each practitioner, not 
only to completely master the department of Medicine 
which he selects for special study, but to advance the 
general knowledge of the profession by his investigations 
and experience. 

For example, diseases of the ear are often dependent 
upon, or are connected with, diseases of other parts of the 
body ; and the doctor who confines his practice to diseases 
of the ear may be in danger of losing sight of the broad 
facts of medicine, and in attempting to cure the ear may 
damage the body ; but by extending his practice to all the 



ON DIET AND BBGIKSN. O 

organs of special sense, which might fairly form a d^art- 
ment of Medicine, he would be obliged to take in a range 
of observation and thought which would enforce a know- 
ledge of the interdependence of diseases. 

Again — Diseases of the heart and arteries are intimately 
connected with those of the lungs and throat ; diseases of 
the lungs with those of the heart, arteries and windpipe ; 
diseases of the brain with those of the lungs, heart and 
arteries ; and all of these are often inseparably connected, 
in the relation of cause or effect, with affections of the sto- 
mach, Hyer, pancreas, kidneys, intestinal glands, etc. etc. 
Therefore, for a doctor to limit his practice to diseases 
of the heart, to diseases of the throat, to diseases of the 
lungs, or to diseases of the windpipe, is to constitute a 
speciality so narrow that he is in danger of losing sight 
of the great principles of medicine. If, on the other hand, 
he selects for special study and practice such a broad 
department as Diseases of the Chest — that is to say, of all 
the respiratory and circulatory organs, and the associated 
processes of digestion and assimilation — ^he will be obliged 
to take in a range of observation and thought neces- 
sitating a constant remembrance of the interdependence 
of diseases, and he will be competent to dssl with all 
classes of disease as well as those pecuUar to his own de- 
partment. I have instanced Diseases of the Chest because 
it is one of most important " lines^' of practice, and the 
one with which I am most intimately associated, but the 
same remarks apply to Obstetrics, to Fevers, to the Dis- 
eases of Children, and to other large divisions of medicine. 
Thus departments of medical practice may be wisely 
selected by different medical men for special study — 
but narrow specialities are dangerous and objectionable, 
unless those who confine themselves to them are content 
to act simply as the assistants of the more general phy- 

b2 



4 PBELIMINABT BEHABKS 

siciaDs and surgeons^ whicli is not likely to be the case. 
For those who may be interested to pursue this subject 
further I have introduced a chapter " on the Oerms and 
Vesmges of Disease.'^ (See Chapter X.) 

Diet is so little understood that, very often, those are 
the best off who abstain from all attempts to meddle with 
it and are content to foUow the dictates of their instinct. 
This, of course, ought not to be the case, for diet, properly 
understood, may be made a powerful agent in the restora- 
tion and maintenance of health ; and errors of diet are 
at all times capable of becoming serious causes of disease. 

But, unfortunately, interference with diet, like all good 
things, is particularly open to abuse, for nothing is 
easier than to lay down a complicated code of restrictions 
and rules as to '' what to eat and what to drink^^ and the 
patient is very apt to think that the skill of the doctor 
increases with the number and variety of his orders. But 
those who understand the principles of diet know that 
the reverse is much nearer to the truth, and that learning 
and skill in dieting a patient, are shown by the wisdom 
with which the doctor, instead of meddling with unimpor- 
tant details, seizes upon the few essential points on which 
the vice or virtue of a diet will generally be found to turn. 
Thus, in a case of diabetes, the ignorant intermeddler may 
order fifty restrictions without doing his patient the 
sUghtest good; whereas, the doctor who understands 
the nature of the disease and the principles of diet, will 
speedily relieve his sufferings by telling him to take what- 
ever he likes, so long as he touches nothing which con - 
tains starch or sugar. Thus, again, I have often seen 
patients suffering from acid dyspepsia who have been 
ordered and forbidden so many different articles of food 
that their lives were rendered miserable, without the 
slightest relief to their complaint, whereas, by forbidding 



ON DIBT AND BSGIMIN. 5 

them to take cheese and malt liquor^ the chief factors of 
their malady^ and allowing them to eat and drink what- 
ever else they pleased^ their sufferings have been speedily 
removed and their lives made enjoyable. 

It is absolutely necessary that he who ventures to inter- 
fere with a person^s diet should first understand the prin- 
ciples upon which the food of health is regulated in nature; 
and nothing assists the intelligent doctor more in getting 
his orders carried out, than for his patient, as well as him- 
self, to be acquainted with this subject. Ignorance and 
stupidity are the constant obstacles in the proper regula- 
tion of these matters. To elucidate this part of the subject 
I have drawn up a brief statement of the "Essentials of a 
normal diet" This Is illustrated by a set of tables, show- 
ing the method by which diets may be arranged so that 
they shall equally well support the human body in a state 
of normal health and strength, whether they consist of a 
compUcated list of expensive articles, or, of no more than 
Bread, Cheese, Butter, Cresses and Water. (See Chaptei 
IV.) 

The advances of science have, of late, thrown most 
important light upon fche connection between food and 
POECE, a subject of the greatest interest to all, whether 
medical or not ; for, as we all take food and all desire to 
be strong, we are unavoidably fascinated by the inquiry 
what kind of food will give us the greatest amount of 
strength. I have not hesitated, therefore, to introduce a 
short Chapter " On Food, Heat and Motion.'' (See Chap- 
ter III.) 

The question of " getting fat or getting thin" whether in 
health or disease, is one inseparable from the subject of food 
and force, for we have discovered that heat is but a mode 
of motion,* and that those elements of food capable of 

« See Prof. T;pdall'9 X^eotqres ; *' JBTi^t a Mode of Motion'' 



6 PBEUMINABT BEHABES 

liberating the largest amoimt of heat^ may be utilized as 
accumulators of fat by economising the motion and heat 
of the body, and vice versa. In the Chapter " On Food, 
Heat and Motion/^ I have introduced a table, shewing the 
composition of some of the most important articles of food, 
and the amount of heat to be got out of equal quantities 
of each, and I have also given directions how to estimate 
the amount of mechanical force equivalent to a given 
quantity of heat. In order to elucidate the importance 
of fat, and the subject of getting fat or losing fat by 
alterations of diet, I have introduced some remarks on 
" Bantingism,^^ on the means which promote the accum- 
ulation of fat, and on the importance of distinguishing 
between solid and liquid fat. (See Chapter VI). 

From what I have already said, and from the articles 
referred to, it must be clear that nothing can take 
precedence of proper food among the means for the 
preservation of the public health ; and when health is lost, 
whether by unavoidable disease or by other causes, nothing 
can be more inportant than to understand the leading 
principles which should guide us in altering the food to 
meet the conditions of disease, and thus to convert diet 
into a powerful instrument for the restoration of health. 
This is a subject which could not be fully discussed in a 
small work like the present, but I have given a Chapter 
^^ On some Principles of Diet in Disease/' containing the 
substance of a lecture which I deKvered at the Royal 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, in 1865. 

The subject of Alcohol, which has of late years occupied 
so much attention, both in the scientific and in the reUgi- 
ous world, and which has been so grievously misrepre- 
sented and misunderstood, is now placed upon a more 
reasonable footing, some plain facts having 1been unques- 
tiionably established by the dispassionate investigations of 



ON DUET AND BEQIMKN. 7 

practical and scientific men. In this country we are 
particularly indebted to Dr. Anstie and Dr. Parkes for 
their investigations on this subject. (See Appendix.) 

It is now quite certain^ as I have long maintained^ that 
alcohol is food — that is to say^ that it is consumed in the 
body by a process of oxidation similar to that which other 
kinds of food undergo^ that during its combustion force is 
liberated^ and the demand for other kinds of food dimin- 
ished. Alcohol^ therefore^ is able to save the combustion 
of the elements of tissue formation^ by vicarious oxidation 
of itself. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is one of the most readily 
oxidisable substances capable of being introduced into the 
animal organism. In this consists its chief value and its 
chief danger ; for^ on the one hand^ it is able to replenish 
the lamp of life with so little tax upon the digestive func- 
tions and with so little loss of time^ that nothing can take 
its place when these are the desiderata of most urgent im- 
port. But, on the other hand, this extraordinary facility 
for oxidation makes the presence of alcohol in the system 
a most dangerous impediment to the combustion of those 
less readily oxidisable matters, the full and regular com- 
bustion of which is absolutely essential to the continuance 
of normal health. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is not an indispensable 
article of daily food ; a normal diet may be perfectly well 
constructed without it, and a healthy person, under fa- 
vourable circumstances, can live without it, just in fact, as 
the lower animals do. But it is also quite certain that 
alcohol is a most blessed gift of Providence, when rightly 
understood and wisely used. It is the endowment of man 
with those higher attributes which principally distinguish 
him from the brutes, that constitutes the element in his 
nature which has made it necessary to his welfare that 



8 FBELIMINABT BBMABK8 

Providence should give him this peculiar article of food in 
addition to all those placed within the reach of the less 
intellectual animals. 

Thus it is a fact^ that while man is brutalized by the 
dbv^e of alcohol, its proper vse is one of his distinctions 
from the brutes. 

Alcohol may perhaps be best described as a Medicinal 
Food. It is essentially a poison, although in its proper 
use it is an indispensable element in the life and happiness 
of highly civilized society. But it ought always to be 
regarded as a most treacherous friend. 

I have drawn up an " alcohol table" (see Chapter V.), 
the result of many careful analyses of each article so as to 
present a fair average result, from which it can be seen, at 
a glance, what quantity by measure of each of the ordin- 
ary fermented liquors represents one ounce by weight of 
absolute alcohol. The table includes a statement of the 
proportion of carbon, and of some other matters, contained 
in fermented liquors, besides the alcohol ; and it must 
always be remembered that different kinds of fermented 
liquors represent many other influences for good or evil, 
in a dietetic point of view, in addition to those possessed 
by the alcohol, all of which require consideration in 
selecting the particular beverage suitable to any given case. 
It will be observed that I have omitted alcohol from 
all the Tables of Normal Diet, leaving it to be added in 
any form and quantity that circumstances may render most 
advisable. According to my own experience, based upon 
long and careful observation, an average-sized adult man 
takmg moderate exercise may drink with advantage 
enough fermented liquors, each 24 hours, to represent 
from one to two ounces avoirdupois of absolute alcohol* 
— ^provided it be always diluted to the extent of 10 fluid 

* It will be seen by the resume of Dr. Parkes' and Count WoUowiw' recent 



ON DIXT AND BBOIHXN. 9 

ounces (half-a-pint imperial) of water or some other mi- 
fermented liqnor to each ounce avoirdupois of ahsohUe 
alcohol^ and that it be taken when there is food in the 
stomach. (See Chapter V) . 

Bbgimbn. The regulation of habits could not be fully 
discussed without involving physiological^ and other de- 
tails which would have far over-run the limits of this 
book. — ^I have^ therefore, contented myself with laying 
down, as concisely as possible, such rules as my own ex- 
perience, added to that of others, has taught me are most 
necessary and most suitable to the generality of persons. 
They must, of course, be modified to suit peculiar consti- 
tutions, idiosyncrasies, and other circumstances, and to 
meet the various conditions of disease. In connection 
with these Bules ros Maintaining Yigobous Health, I 
have introduced an article " on the Proper Hours for Meals" 
also a number of valuable suggestions '^on Hottse Dram- 
age" for which I am indebted to an experienced architect, 
(see Chapter II.) ; and an important leading article from the 
Times of August 17th, 1869, suggested by a letter of mine 
on "London Noise amd London Sleep" which had ap- 
peared on the 13th. (See Appendix.) On the subject of 
exercise and training, in addition to the rules I have laid 
down, I advise everyone, medical or not, to read " A Sys- 
tem of Physical Education,^^ by Archibald Maclaren, of 
the Gymnasium, Oxford, an admirable treatise issued from 
the Clarendon Press in 1869. 

As a necessary part of a work like the present, having 
for its object the preservation of health, I have added a 
chapter (Chapter VIII.) on Disinfection, with rules for 
preventing the spread of the " Catching Diseases.'^ And 
in Chapter IX. will be found some special directions for the 
sick room, 

ffi^rimentfl (see appendix) that their results confirm the opinion at which 
I had long before arriyed, by a different process. 



10 FBBUHINABT BEHABES 

In concluding this introductory chapter I must not lose 
the opportunity of expressing my opinion upon a matter 
regarding which there is great misapprehension, and, 
I regret to say, intentional misrepresentation. I refer 
to the subject of psevdo-medical'dogmasj such as are in- 
volved in the terms Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, 
Kinesipathy, &c., and in such expressions as ^'a stim- 
ulating system,^' "a depleting system,'* ^^similia simili- 
bus curantur,'* " contraria contraribus curantur,'* and the 
like. 

I disclaim them all, and I feel sure that in this state- 
ment I express the sentiment of the majority of think- 
ing medical men. It is utterly unworthy of the professor 
of a science and art so great as medicine, to '^ pin him- 
self' to such xiarrow dogmas and rules of thought and 
practice as are indicated by one and all of these expres- 
sions. 

The practice of rational medicine — Shaving for its sub- 
ject not only that most complex and wonderful fabric 
the animal organism, but that organism endowed with 
all those attributes which place man but " a Uttle lower 
than the angels'' — demands that there shall not be any- 
thing excluded from its service, and that every science 
and every art shall combine, at its bidding, to assuage 
the suffering and to save the life of Nature's highest 
earthly creature. 

Every honest and intelligent practitioner of rational 
medicine knows, that there are remedies of unquestionable 
potency the action of which could never have been dis- 
covered by any such dogmas as ^'contraria contraribus 
curantur" or '^ similia similibus curantur." On the other 
hand, he knows that there are remedies the action of 
which may a/ppea/r to be explained by one or other of 
these principles, but that the more intimately we become 



ON DIST AND BEaiMlBN. 11 

acquainted with the occult properties of medicines and the 
occult physiology of diseases, the more plainly do we see 
that these apparent explanations of the modiis operandi of 
remedies are absurdly superficial and incorrect. He will 
not^ then^ refuse to benefit his patient by the use of the 
one remedy because he cannot explain its action^ or of the 
other because it appears to act by similarity, or of a third 
because he thinks it acts by contrariety. Again, he knows 
that the same disease may assume such difierent phases, 
in dijBTerent constitutions, at different times and in different 
places, that in one case it may require stimulation,^' in 
another '^ depletion,'^ that at one period of the same case, 
^' water treatment^' may be advisable, at another ^^ gym- 
nastic," at another " mechanical,"^at another " cKmatic.'' 
And he claims these, and all other means beneficently 
placed within our reach which can protect health or bene- 
fit the sick, as the legitimate weapons in the armoury of 
rational medicine. 

Every theory, every system, every dogma, must give 
place, at last, before the fact, once unquestionably proved, 
that such or such a remedy is best for such or such an 
occasion. 

Therefore, in my opinion, all men who " pin their faith" 
on narrow dogmas, stamp themselves thereby as unfit for 
the practice of rational medicine. 



CHAPTER II. 

RULES FOR PROMOTING AND MAINTAINING 
VIGOROUS HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN 
THE CLIMATE OP THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

Ventilation and Heating — Gas — House -deainage — Cloth- 
ing AND Protection fbom Cold— Sleep — London Noise 
AND London Sleep — Exercise — Posture — Bathing — 
Regulation of the Bowels — Rest and Change — 
Smoking — Meals — Proper Hours for Meals. 

%* These Rules will require to be modified by the mediojj man to suit 
special cases; 



VENTILATION AND HBATINQ. 

1. No sitting or sleeping room should be left long with- 
out a fire/and every room in which persons live, either by 
day or by night, should have some opening by which it 
communicates directly with the outer air ; but this should 
be so arranged that no draught can fall upon the persons 
in the room. 

2. If several rooms are occupied by turns during the 
twenty-four hours, the temperature of any one should not 
differ greatly from that of the rest. 

3. No draught should blow upon a bed, and during 
sleep the whole body should have one covering at least of 
woollen material ; for, while it is very important to keep 
the air of sleeping rooms fresh, it must be remembered 
that the body is more susceptible to chills during sleep 
than waking, and that changes in the temperature of the 



VEMTILATION AND HIATIKO. 13 

outer air are especially apt to occur during the night, and 
are^ therefore^ in danger of producing chills before they 
are observed. (See Sleep.) 

4. All arrangements for ventilation must be based upon 
the following facts : — 

The rate of respiration in an average sized adult man 
is about 16 times per minute, and each such respiration 
vitiates about 1 cubic foot of normal atmospheric air ; so 
that each adult man vitiates 960 cubic feet of air per 
hour, and consequently will require a supply of fresh air 
at that rate ; or in round numbers 1000 cubic feet per 
hour. 

This supply of fresh air can be provided by observing 
the following conditions : — 

A current of air travelling at the rate of 36 linear inches 
per second is not perceptible as a draught, and at that 
rate of movement 1 J cubic feet per minute or 75 per hour 
will be admitted by an aperture of 1 square inch sectional 
area, commmucating directly with the outer air. 

If, therfore, an apartment is provided with an aperture 
having a ratio of 1 square inch sectional area to each 75 
feet of cubic capacity, the whole air of the apartment will 
be changed once per hour. 

Supposing, then, that the cubic capaciiy of an apart- 
ment is in the proportion of 1000 feet to each person in it, 
the requisite supply of fresh air may be obtained, without 
draught, through an aperture of from 13 to 14 square 
inches sectional area to each 1000 feet of cubic capacity. 
But if the cubic capacity of the apartment is only in the 
proportion of 500 feet for each person in it, the air must 
be changed twice per hour in order to supply the requisite 
1000 cubic feet of fresh air for each person. 

When gas is burnt in an apartment the following facts 
must be borne in miad, in addition to the foregoing, for 
the purposes of ventilation :— ^ 



14 HOUSE-DBAINAOE. 

One cubic foot of ordinary London coal gas produces, in 
b^uming, 2-thirds of a cubic foot of carbonic acid, about 
the amount produced per hour by the respiration of one 
adult man, — and as an ordinary fish-tail gas-burner con- 
sumes about 3 cubic feet of gas per hour, it produces 
in that time as much carbonic acid as the respiration of 
three adults. 



HOUSE-DSAINAGE. 

The following vahwhle suggestions from an experienced 
architect I give in his own words. 

Dear Dr. Dobell, 

Knowing you to be greatly interested in such 
subjects, I have much satisfaction in forwarding the 
following practical remarks on "House Drainage" to- 
gether with some quotations from my own experience. 
Architects have opportunities where other persons have 
not of observing the action of drains; the evil conse- 
quences of their misconstruction; of their too frequent 
proximity to wells of drinking-water through additions 
and alterations of buildings, or otherwise; of soakage 
from cesspools; of evaporation of water from so-called 
" traps,'^ &c. The opportunities referred to must there- 
fore be my apology for venturing to address you on this 
subject^ and you are quite at liberty to make use of the 
hints in this paper if they are likely to be of any service 
to the community. 

I will commence, then, my observations by the somewhat 
startling and unpleasant enquiry which should be put to 
every house-holder, " Where are your drains and cesspools 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 15 

situated" ? This is a question very closely Knked with the 
preservation of life and health as you are aware; yet, on this 
enquiry being made, many tenants at once admit, that they 
do not know, that they have no idea ; that they have been in 
the house many years and are only aware, perhaps, of one 
drain from the scuUery-sink which drips into a ditch or 
pond, or public sewer ; that their fathers added a wing 
to the house, containing a large dining and drawing-room, 
that there is at times a faint smell in these rooms, and 
the same unaccountable smell when a few friends visit 
them and when the shutters and curtains are drawn and 
good fires kept up ; that the ladies are constantly troubled 
with headache, nausea^ and lassitude ; that the children 
are feverish at times, and death among them is not un- 
known ! Gould these house-holders only see the old 
brick barrel-drain and the foetid cesspool, with its outlet 
cut off perhaps, inclosed in this wing, and the rats and 
insects working their holes in it a very little distance be- 
low the unventilated floors, they would get out of the 
house as quickly as their legs could carry them. 

If premises which have been added to from time to time 
are pulled down, and especially where a faint smell has been 
noticed, you may be greatly astonished to find a barrel- 
drain crossing the house, cut through or broken in before 
reaching the cesspool or outlet, and a mass of decom- 
posing matter extending a considerable distance under 
the fioors of the rooms, in consequence of the drain being 
stopped. This occurred without the knowledge of an 
unfortunate house-holder who at times perceived a faint 
smell, but having got used to it disregarded it ; hav- 
ing, however, lost a valuable life through the death of the 
mother of his young family, and having carried some of 
his children to her grave, he determined to pull down the 
rooms and build more airy ones, little thinking what he 



16 HOlTSE-DBAINAaB. 

should discover. It was in this case the want of quality 
in the air more than of quantity that caused his losses. 

My object in mentioning such cases is to rouse every 
householder to trace his drains to their outlets^ let him 
see that they are clear and that they have no holes in 
them^ and that they are laid to a good fall. 

If premises are your own do not mind spending a few 
pounds. If necessary take out the barrel-drains and put 
in socket-pipes^ truly and well laid on concrete^ covered 
with concrete and jointed in cement^ this will keep out 
rats and vermin and worms, and prevent noxious gases 
collecting under your floors. 

If your floors are not ventilated^ see if this cannot be 
done. 

If you are about to purchase or hire a nice-looking 
newly-built house, do not for a moment suppose or take 
for granted that the drains are ^^ all right,'' for in many 
new houses the drainage is only run out a little way from 
the walls and not led anywhere, but left for someone to 
complete after his family has been struck down, and who 
upon digging up his flower-beds and destroying the 
growth of his shrubs and everything else, in pursuit of the 
drains, finds that they are choked, and full of worms and 
black stuflF, and go nowhere. 

Whether you occupy an old or a new house and pre- 
mises, caution is equally necessary. Look at all your 
surface^gratings, whether in your paths, your stable-yard, 
your conservatories, porches, lobbies, or wherever they 
may be, with great suspicion, especially in dry weather. 
People will sometimes say to themselves when walking 
about premises, " wherever does that smell come from ?'' 
little thinking that the water has evaporated from the 
traps. These surface drains should not be connected with 
sewer drains at all, but should have a separate service of 
pipes. 



HOUSE- DBAIKAGB. 1 7 

See where the rain-water descending pipes run to^ look 
well at the joints of these vertical pipes. If you notice 
discoloration of the paint at the joints^ you may know 
at once that they are connected with some cesspool or 
sewer- piping: e. gf. a gentleman had low fever among his 
children, he could not assign any particular cause for it ; 
one of the rain-water pipes, however, ran up the walls of 
of his house, within a couple of feet of the nursery vrin- 
dows, this pipe was painted a stone colour, the paint at 
and above the unstopped joints in this pipe was turned to 
a lead colour. The question as to where the water from 
that pipe went to was put to him, and answered by " no- 
body knows.'' On examining it was found (as might be 
conjectured) to go into an hermetically sealed cesspool. 
Every time rain fell and water went into this cesspool, 
the sewer gas found its way readily through the joints of 
this pipe, and as the nursery windows were kept open as 
much as possible after the rooms were warmed by the 
young life in them, there is very little doubt where the 
source or origin of the enteric fever was lurking. 

As rain-water is valuable, have an underground tank to 
receive it, and an overflow pipe to it, separate from any 
sewer drain. Let the rain-water pass through a small 
filter-chamber, filled with shingle and charcoal, before 
entering the tank : this will take out flakes of soot and 
particles of leaves and vegetable matter, the water will 
then keep better. 

If you wish to know what size to make such a tank 
ascertain how many square yards of ground your roofs 
cover. About one hundred and twenty-six gallons of 
rain-water fall on an average every year upon a square 
yard of ground : a cubic foot of water is equal to about 
6 J gallons, you can therefore easily judge what size to 
make your tank. 

c 



18 HOUSB-DEAINAGE. 

Touching upon soil pipes and cesspools in private 
houses where there are no public drains, I would say that 
too much care cannot be taken to provide for circulation 
of air in all pipes leading to and from cespools. Connect 
these pipes with a 4-inch tube and carry it up higher than 
your chimneys on some stout lofty tree, or on some build- 
ing only a short distance from the house, if possible, and 
towards the south of the house, as such air works gen- 
erally towards the sun ; and away from the house, if let 
out south of it. 

For your water-closets you will find a good D trap 
about the best check to any pressure of sewer-gas, as it 
will not be forced through a D trap so easily as through 
some of the modem shallow traps and syphons ; but if 
you happen to have valve-closets, or light traps, a lead 
pipe can in most cases be put into the leaden bend 
and carried above the roof; then you will have an essential 
safeguard, e. g,, it will be evident to all that when water 
goes down a soil-pipe a certain quantity of air must be 
displaced, this air will rush out into the closet unless am- 
ple provision is made for its escape elsewhere ; and as the 
act of a person pulling np a closet handle is first, to stoop, 
which causes him to emit his breath, and then to raise 
himself which causes him to inspire, it will be readily 
noticed that he is sure to take in his breath at the moment 
when the water runs down the soil-pipe and the pent-up 
sewer gas rushes out close to his lungs. Keep the closet 
seat-flap down, cut holes in the flap to admit of the handle 
being raised when the flap is closed ; it will, however, be 
far better to ventilate your soil-pipes and drains. Water- 
closets should be flushed with a large pail-fuU of water 
now and then, because the small quantity of water com- 
ing in through the supply -pipe into the pan is insufficient 
for this purpose, especially when the handle is held up a 



H0U8S-DBAINAGB. 19 

yeiy short time. Jenning's and Underhay's pans are 
better supplied with water than many^ but even with these 
arrangements no sufficient flush takes place to well push 
on the excreta. When these accumulate^ ammoniacal 
and other matters are formed and danger springs up, 
but there is not the same danger (if any) from fresh 
sewage. Do not allow slops to be emptied down your 
water-closets because some may be spilt and get between 
the seat and the pan^ and gradually saturate the wood- 
work beneath^ causing decay and unwholesome faint 
smells. Have a pad of dry hair-felt sewn in an oilskin 
cover placed between the top of the pan and the wooden 
seat if there is any vacant space there ; this will stop 
draught and the splash referred to. 

Lime-white with hot lime the floor and inside of the 
seat-enclosure annually ; this can be readily done by tak- 
ing off the top or seat of the enclosure. 

The effectual ventilation of water-closets situated as 
they often are^ is by no means an easy matter. If you 
open the window, the warm house will qmckly receive the 
smell you intended to go outside, and you will soon per- 
ceive that the air will not obey your commands. Have a 
space (however small) between the inner and outer doors 
of the water-closet; if this space is too confined for a 
window get external air into it by tubes, this stratum of 
air will materially assist you, because it tends to balance 
and check the progress of the air in the water-closet be- 
yond ; but the better method is to lead a tube from the 
ceiling of the water-closet into the nearest chimney flue 
where there is smoke ascending, or where there is suffi- 
cient warmth to make it act as you wish ; your water- 
closet will then soon be cleared of all disagreables, a valve 
however, should be balanced in this tube to prevent any 
sudden down draft. 

c2 



20 HOUSS-DBAINAGE. 

Some provision should be made for disposing of slops 
entirely away from the water-closet. People are little 
aware what odd things are put down water-closets. If 
plumbers told people the queer things they find in 
water-closet pipes they would not be believed. Water- 
closets should be strictly guarded, and domestic servants 
cautioned against misusing them. The same oversight 
should be given to traps in sinks and elsewhere ; these 
traps are often lifted off and not put on again, resulting 
in much damage to the health of the servants and all the 
inmates of the house. Let all pipes from sinks, butlef^s 
pantries, baths, &c. discharge themselves free to the air 
before entering sewer drains : this plan can generally be 
carried out without difficulty or dissight. 

Have all junctions of water-closet pipes with the drains 
examined now and then, as the stopping often shrinks 
and the lead decays, especially if the stopping is made of 
Portland cement. The seating or fixing of the pan on to 
the soil-pipe should also be examined periodically so as 
to stop any leakage of sewer gas. 

All cisterns should be cleaned out once a year, and any 
deposit removed. If you have a ^^ waste-pipe" in your 
cistern branched into the soil-pipe, which is two fre- 
quently the case, look well to it, for unless your drains 
are sufficiently ventilated, the sewer gas will be forced 
through the waste-pipe and may be absorbed by the water 
in your cistern. If you have a painted lid to your cistern 
see if any discolouration has taken place; if you find such 
to be the ease you may be sure that sewer gas has es- 
caped into your cistern. 

If you have drains from your basements and cellars be 
particularly careful to see that the traps are efficient and 
kept well supplied with water ; the great importance of 
having this seen to is self-evident. Where do you sup- 



HOUSB-DRAINAGB. 21 

pose the snpply of air to your sitting-rooms is frequently 
di'awn from ? if they happen to be over rooms or cellers 
with plastered ceilings air will percolate from them into 
your sitting-rooms. You can prove this by blowing a 
cloud of tobacco-smoke below; or you may find it out 
accidentally through something being spilt^ such as paraffin 
oil for instance. Have your cellars frequently limewhited 
and the floors cleaned. 

I wiU only sUghtly touch upon wells and drinking- 
water because it is impossible to exhaust such an impor- 
tant and interesting subject in a paper like this^ but I do 
wish to observe, that every householder should know ex- 
actly where his well is situated, if he has one. 

People are little aware how soon drinking water is 
spoilt by a smaU leakage of surface-water, or drain-water 
into it, e. g., an additional drain is thought desirable, an 
ordinary bricklayer is sent for, who puts it in for you, not 
knowing your weU is in close proximity to it, or if he 
knows its situation you are not informed of it ; the conse- 
quence may be and ofben is most disastrous. Gases such 
as this are common through persons hiring houses (on a 
lease for instance) and who like to see the premises dry 
quickly after rain ; they do not know and do not trouble 
themselves to ascertain where their wells are ; but have 
extra drains put in as alluded to without thought : their 
drinking water is spoilt; the sequel is too certain and 
the evil often only found out when too late. 

To effectually deal with the sewage of large towns so as 
to remove, and actually to convey away noxious matters 
from our very midst without the use of the present water 
system is a great difficulty, and the prospect of any radi- 
cal change of the present system in London, for instance, 
seems an impossibility, on account of the gigantic net- 
work of sewers already provided and in use. 



22 HOUSE-DRAIKAGl. 

Nevertheless, I will proceed to mention a few grave ob- 
jections with the hope of an amelioration of some of them, 
by better attention to details in respect to the more effi- 
cient ventilation of sewers and the prevention of the ingress 
of evil-smelling, if not of poisonous gases into our houses. 
The worst form of sewer-gas is generally formed and found 
in the side drains, or branches which are led up to our 
houses, and the contents of these are all but stagnant 
when the main sewers are filling, Eemove, therefore, 
where possible, all inlets into the drains leading to the 
sewers from the interior of your houses. • But it may be said 
that in the majority of cases this cannot be done without 
destroying the drainage altogether ; the answer is, such 
cases are, comparatively speaking, few. Take drains from 
cellars for instance, how seldom they are of real service 
compared with the great danger of their presence. Cel- 
lars can be cleaned down without necessitating a trap and 
drain into the sewer. Deal with the cleansing of a cellar- 
floor the same as is done with a boarded floor, by wiping 
up the water and drying the floor as well as may be. 

Asphalte is very good for cellar floors, and very cleanly. 
Nasty traps in your cellars and basement, containing in 
themselves a quantity of stagnant dirty water communicat- 
ing with the sewer, the gas in which can easily be forced 
into your house, is a grave form of evil; to cure this source 
of disease, simply dispense with the traps and drains and 
wipe your floors clean. By some thought and contrivance 
it will be found that very many connections with the 
sewers can be avoided. 

Waste pipes, again, in cisterns connected with the soil- 
pipe and sewer should be dispensed with, and means to 
prevent occasional overflows of water when the badly 
fitting common ball-taps stick, should be provided for in 
another direction. Waste-pipes in cisterns connected with 



HOUSB-DBAINAaS. 23 

sewer drains ore ontspoken examples of the stupidity^ 
which^ with an utter disregard to sanitary laws^ persists in 
such suicidal arrangements. Surely there is great incon- 
sistency in raising alarms about the impurity of London 
water^ whilst at the same time it is not unfrequently con- 
taminated with a poison through the waste pipes in 
cisterns which no filter can remove. Where connection 
with the sewers is actually necessary (as in water-closets) 
ventilate the soil-pipe by a vertical continuation of it to 
such a height as circumstances will permit. 

Water-closets should not be in the midst of our 
houses at all, but projected outwards with a lobby or 
anteroom, as before alluded to ; but it is quite surprising 
how few junctions with the sewer drains in houses are 
absolutely necessary. Every internal junction dispensed 
with is a step in the right direction ; get all connections, 
where possible, outside your houses, because sewer-gas 
forced out into the open air is soon robbed of its noxious 
powers, but its escape into the interior of your house is as 
bad as a murderer entering it, and a very sly insidious 
felon is sewer-gas. 

The dry earth system is most excellent and effective, 
but the cost of bringing round dry earth and removing 
that used in populous places would be heavy and the in- 
trusion and inconvenience apparently great; time how- 
ever will show whether this system cannot be developed 
without such drawbacks. Moule's dry-earth system is 
most in use. Goux^s absorbent closet system is equally 
effective, having been tried and adopted for the North 
camp at Aldershot, and even in so large a town as Halifax. 

Dry earth commodes, also, for sick chambers are very 
useful. 

As compared with the water-closet system, the earth 
closet has several advantages. It is cheaper in its original 



24 HOUSE-DBAINAGS. 

cost^ it requires less repair : it is not injured by frosty it 
is not liable to damage through hard substances being 
thrown into it, it greatly diminishes the quantity of water 
required by each household. My own experience is in 
favour of the earth system, if carried out under proper 
authorities. It is deserving of every consideration, but its 
merits at present are not sufficiently understood by the 
public, to interfere much with the poisoned water system. 
Formidable sums of money are being spent in draining 
towns 80 as to lay on sewer-gas by means of pipes to our 
very bedroom doors. Is this right ? Will not the water 
system be superseded ? 

Cleanliness after all is the great natural disinfectant; 
look well, therefore, to all sources of water-supply, impure 
water-butts, sinks, and particularly dust-bins; remove 
frequently all possible sources of nuisance and accumula- 
tions of impurities ; also, last but not least, get rid of any 
damp mouldy paper-hangings and the festering paste be- 
hind them, if you have any such sources of fever on your 
premises. 

There is an important lesson to be learnt by all of us. 
Every householder should make himself acquainted with 
so much of sanitary science as will enable him to preserve 
the health of his family. To secure health, sanitary laws 
must be understood and carried out. A family cut down 
by preventable sickness cannot be considered a fortunate 
one, and it is just as necessary to learn something of sani- 
tary laws to provide against this, as it is to provide the 
common necessaries of Ufe. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours truly, 
G. B. Pritchett, P.S.A., P.R.I.B.A, 

40 Lombard Street, E.C., and 

Biihop Stortford, Herti. 

January, 1872. 



25 



OLOTHING. 



5. In winter, the body and limbs, from the root of the 
neck to the toes and elbows, should be covered, next the 
skin, with some woollen material, such as lamb's wool or 
flannel. 

6. In summer, the material may be lighter, as merino, 
and need not cover the limbs. 

7. The same woollen dress should not be worn both 
night and day, but should be changed for a woollen sleep- 
ing vest of the same material as that worn during the day. 
(See Sleep.) 

8. Having provided that the skin is so covered that 
it is protected against sudden changes of temperature, 
all other clothing should be limited to that which is 
sufficient to preserve a comfortable feeling of warmth 
under the different changes of the season and of the 
weather. 

9. Over-clothing, i.e., such as keeps the body perspiring 
while at rest or produces perspiration under very slight 
exertion, should be avoided, especially over-clothing of 
any one part of the body by which it is kept hotter than 
the other parts. 

10. It is of the greatest importance to keep the feet 
dry and as warm as the rest of the body. If the weather 
is damp, this can only be done by wearing goloshes when 
out of doors. (See Bathing). 

This subject may be further elucidated by the following 
extract from the Author's Lectuees on Winter Cough, 
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Emphysema, Asthma, delivered at 
the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest in 1865. 

Fresh colds were the only causes which brought on or 
aggravated the cough in 72 per cent of the cases^ and the 



26 CLOTHING. 

most freqaent and potent causes of these fresh colds^ as 
stated by the patients themselves, were : — 

1. Sudden changes of temperature in 21 per cent. 

2. Fogs and damp air in 19 per cent. 

3. Draughts of cold air in 16 per cent. 

4. Cold winds in 10 per cent. 

5. Getting wet in 14 per cent. 

6. Wet feet in 17 per cent. And we find the same list 
of causes of fresh colds recurring as the potent provokers 
of short breathing. This important list is no less striking 
for the power for evil which it is shown to possess, than 
for the remarkable simplicity of the evil powers them- 
selves. 

If, then, these unfortunate sufferers from Winter Cough 
could have been protected from sudden changes of tem- 
perature, fogs, mists, cold winds, draughts, wet feet, and 
wet coats and dresses, 72 per cent, would have kept free 
from their coughs. It would seem strange if we could 
not find means of protection against such common-place 
influences. In truth, there is no deficiency of means of 
protection against them, and it is because of the very 
common-place character of these means of protection and 
of the influences themselves that both are so much neg- 
lected and under-valued.. 

But 72 per cent of the cases of Winter Cough which I 
have analysed might probably have been prevented by 
attention to these common-place things. Let us then 
give a few minutes to their consideration. 

1. Sudden changes of temperature. This is the most 
difficult to avoid of any on the list. The occupations and 
amusements of all classes involve such changes, and we 
cannot stop these occupations and amusements, even were 
it desirable to do sp. The workshop, the counting house, 
the committee-room^ the opera-house^ the ball-room^ must 



CLOTHING. 27 

be warm when the enter air is cold, and changes from one 
to the other cannot be avoided. Bnt very mnch can be 
done to prevent the body from feeling these changes. 
The first and most important is the complete envelopment 
of the body and limbs in wool next the sHn, thus inter- 
posing a bad conductor of heat between the surface of the 
body and the outer air. It is surprising that, even at the 
present day, this simple and common-sense protection is 
neglected by so large a number of persons both of the 
educated and of the uneducated classes. It is not suffi- 
cient for the purpose in view that a little body- vest should 
be worn just big enough to cover the thorax and abdomen, 
leaving the extremities unprotected. It should be insisted 
on by medical men that the arms and legs require to be 
protected from sudden transitions of temperature as well 
as the trunk. 

In fashionable life the greatest practical difficulty we 
have to encounter is the question of exposing the necks 
and shoulders of ladies in evening dress. It is useless to 
order body-clothing of wool to the throat, and to expect 
that ladies will give up a fashion which has been followed 
and thought charming in all countries and all ages. The 
difficulty is, however, to be got over pretty well. Every 
lady in evening dress should carry with her, as invariably 
as she does her pocket handkerchief, a Shetland shawl or 
a mantilla of wool or fur, of a size and shape to cover all 
those parts not protected by woollen underclothing, and it 
should only be removed while actually within warm rooms 
and should be kept at hand to be replaced on passing 
through passages, or if the rooms become cold, or if 
sitting in draughts. 

The main source of protection, then, against sudden 
changes of temperature to the surface of the body, is to be 
found in a complete covering of wool next the skin. But 



28 CLOTHING. 

besides this^ much greater attention^ than is common^ 
should be paid to putting on and taking off complete and 
efficient over-clothing when going from hot to cold and 
from cold to hot temperatures. This is particularly neg- 
lected by the working classes and by girls and boys at 
school. 

What I have said with regard to sudden changes 
of temperature will apply equally to two other causes 
of fresh colds on our list, viz., draughts of cold air, and 
cold winds. Both are to be deprived of their sting by 
proper clothing of the skin and mucous orifices — of the 
latter I shall speak again. 

Getting wet, and wet feet occupy a very serious place 
in our list, and there is no doubt that damp and cold 
applied to the general surface is a most efficient means 
of producing chill and vital depression, with congestion of 
the internal organs. It is necessary that cold be com- 
bined with moisture to produce this effect. 

Even if all the clothes on the body are wet, no harm 
will come so long as they are kept warm, and this sug- 
gests the very great value, to all persons liable to ex- 
posure to wet, of light waterproof over-alls. They may 
either be put on to keep the underclothing dry, or, if 
the underclothing has become wet, either by weather or 
by perspiration, they may be put on to prevent too rapid 
evaporation and consequent reduction of temperature, 
especially when the person is about to remain still after 
getting warm with exercise. In this variable climate, 
therefore, school girls, governesses, shop and factory girls, 
and all women whose occupations call upon them to brave 
the weather, ought to carry with them complete water- 
proof mantles made as light as possible; but extending 
from the neck to the ankles, which can be put on or 
not as required; and boys and men similarly exposed 
should carry water-proof over-alls. 



CLOTHING. 29 

But if wet and cold to the surface of the body is a fruitful 
source of catarrh^ wet feet —which means wet and cold feet 
— is a still more prolific source. There is no external influ- 
ence which so surely produces congestion of the naso-pul- 
monary mucousmembrane^ as wet and cold to the soles of 
the feet. There is nothing so universally neglected, and yet 
there is nothing more easy to avoid. Warm socks, horsehair 
soles, goloshes, provide eflScient protection against wet 
and cold feet. It does not seem to be half understood 
that, although a shoe or boot may not be wet through, 
if the sole is damp it will, by conduction and evaporation, 
most effectually carry away the heat from the sole of the 
foot, and, therefore, ought never to be worn after exercise 
is over. 

We have still one item left on our list — ^viz.. Fogs and 
Damp air, which were the things most inclined to make 
the breath short in 24 per cent, of the cases, and the most 
potent causes of fresh colds in 19 per cent. I have par- 
ticularly remarked, that although the smoke and other 
irritating matters constituting fog are unquestionably very 
injurious, it is the moisture and cold of the fog which are 
the qualities most potent for mischief to the naso-pulmon- 
ary tract. There is but one means of depriving a fog or 
mist of its injurious properties, and that is a respirator ; 
and the same may be said of the changes of temperature 
of which I spoke just now; a respirator is the only means 
of protecting the respiratory passages from the effects of 
transitions of temperature. 

Although it is quite proper to cover the neck and throat 
lightly, I am decidedly of opinion that warm wrappers 
round the neck are objectionable ; they produce conges- 
tion of the nasal and faucial mucous membrane and thus 
dispose to the very complaints they are supposed to pre- 
vent. 



30 SLEEP. 

I am glad to find the use of respirators^ which I have so 
long advocated, recently denoionstrated in one of Professor 
TyndalFs beautiful lectures. (See appendix.) 



SLEEP. 



11. During ordinary health, the hours spent in actual 
sleep should not exceed eight ; and if the sleep is sound, 
continuous and refreshing, six will be sufficient for many 
persons. (See Best and Change). It is of great impor- 
tance, especially with the young and the weak, to maintain 
the due proportion between the number of waking and 
sleeping hours. If, therefore, it is necessary, as in going to 
places of amusement, to sit up unusually late, the waking 
hours, thus spent, should be compensated by a similar 
number of sleeping hours, taken in the preceding day ; so 
that over fatigue may be prevented- For example, if the 
usual hour for rising is 8 and for bed 11 and it is proposed 
to stay up till 3, the hour for rising should be changed to 
12 ; or 4 hours rest should be taken at some other time 
during the day. 

12. During sleep, it is equally important to keep the 
body pleasantly warm, and to avoid keeping it over- 
heated; and, as serious changes in the weather may 
happen in the night, and the lowest temperature in the 
twenty-four hours naturally occurs between 2 o'clock and 
6 o'clock a.m., the ventilation and clothing must be pre- 
pared for these contingencies. (See Ventilation, and 
Clothing). 

13. If sleep is taken after meals, it should not exceed 
half an hour in duration; it should be taken sitting back 
in an easy chair, with the head supported behind ; not 



SZERCISE. 31 

lying down^ and not sitting with the chin resting on the 
breast ; the feet should be kept warm^ and the dress loose 
round the neck and waist. 

14. Every precaution should be taken to secure quiet 
sleeping-rooms. (See appendix '^ On London noise and 
London sleep"). 



BXEXLCISBi. 



15. During ordinary healthy some part of every day 
ought to be spent out of doors ; and in ill-health it is of 
great importance not to discontinue the observance of this 
rule without good reason ; for^ although in certain states of 
disease it may be very important to remain in-doors, it must 
not be forgotten that proper clothings goloshes, respira- 
tors^ and umbrellas, may make it not only safe but advan- 
tageous to go out of doors for exercise, when, without 
them, it would be very injurious. (See Posture). 

16. Out-of-door exercise should be as active as the 
strength will allow, and should always be continued up to 
the point of slight — ^but not over — ^fatigue. This will be 
the best measure of the proper amount for both the weak 
and the strong. 

17. Unless the air is pure, and the person strong, 
exercise before breakfast is more likely to do harm than 
good; a tumbler of milk and a biscuit, however, will 
be a sufficient meal to take before the walk or ride — a 
more substantial breakfast being taken afterwards. (See 
Meals). 

18. Especial care is needed not to expose the body to 
chills when heated by exercise ; and cold drinks should 
not be taken at that time, unless the exercise is about to 



^ 



32 SXEBCISE. 

be continued immediately ; and even then the quantity of 
cold drink taken at once should be very small. (See 
Meals). 

In his work '' ON PnYSiCAii Education/^ referred to at p. 9, 
Mr, Maclaren makes the following excellent remarks. 

" Such in brief is Exercise, such the ends which it 
accomplishes, and such the manner of their accomplish- 
ment ; viz. the destruction of the tissues, the hastening of 
the decay and death of every part coming within its in- 
fluence; but also the speedy removal of all waste, the 
hastening forward of fresh material for its replacement ; 
and in doing this it attains three distinct but co-relative 
results. 

'^1. It increases the size and power of the voluntary 
muscles employed. 

" 2. It increases the functional capacity of the involun- 
tary muscles employed. 

^^8. It promotes the health and strength of the whole 
body, by increasing respiration and quickening circula- 
tion.^' 

"It is health rather than strength that is the great 
requirement of modem men at modern occupations ; it is 
not the power to travel great distances, carry great bur- 
dens, lift great weights, or overcome great material ob- 
structions ; it is simply that condition of body and that 
amount of vital capacity, which will enable each man 
in his place to pursue his calling, and work on in his 
working life, with the greatest amount of comfort to 

himself and usefulness to his fellow men Let it not be 

inferred from this that I consider health and strength as 
in any manner opposed to each other, on the contrary, 
they are most intimately allied and are usually, by the 



H)8!r0BI. 33 

same means and by the same manner obtained, very 
closely are they connected but they are not the same, and 

a man may possess either without the other/' p. 24 A 

most important principle in Exercise, and one which 
shonld ever be borne in mind, is, that it should be regu- 
lated by individual fitness ; for the exercise that scarcely 
amounts to exertion in one person will be injurious and 
dangerous to another, and not only is this inequality 
observable among different individuals, but, the same 
individual may have parts of his body possessing special 
power or presenting Bpedal weakness. A man may have 
limbs capable of transporting him at the rate of four miles 
an hour throughout the day, and for many days in succes- 
sion, but mth heart or lungs all unequal to the effort. Or 
he may have an organization so frail and a temperament so 
susceptible to stimulation or excitement, that the one is 
an abiding danger to the other/' p. 55. 



POSTURE. 

19. It is of great importance to acquire a habit of 
drawing the breath deeply and slowly, so as to expand 
the lungs freely during ordinary breathing. This re- 
quires that the head and shoulders be thrown well back 
in walking, sitting, and standing, and that no clothing be 
worn tight round the ribs. Those engaged in sedentary 
or stooping occupations should especially attend to this 
advice. 

20. Those whose occupation obliges them to maintain 
the erect posture for a number of hom^ each day, should 
take every opportunity of lying flat down, even if only for 

D 



34 BATHING. 

a few minutes at a time. They shoald also bear in mind 
that standing will not take the place of walking exercise. 
(See Exercise). 

21. All persons whose pursuits require the long con- 
tinuance or frequent assumption of any particular position 
or movement of the body or limbs, should take every 
opportunity of changing it for an opposite position or 
movement. (See Best and Change, and Sleep).* 



BATHING. 



22. Warm baths, Turkish baths, vapour baths, shower 
baths, and cold plunges, should only be used under special 
medical orders. 

23. During ordinary health, the skin of the body and 
limbs should be smartly rubbed, once in tweniy-four hours, 
first mth a rough towel wet with cold water, and then 
mth a dry one till in a glow. The bather should stand 
on a dry rug while using this '^ cold friction bath/' and it 
should not last more than one or two minutes, including 
both the wet and the dry rub. Salt may be advanta- 
geously added to the water ; and the bath may be used 
either on rising or going to bed, according to the feelings 
and convenience of each individual. When water cannot 
be borne cold, it most not be used tepid, but very hot. 
— ^The momentary application of very hot water to the 
skin, immediately followed by a brisk friction, will pro- 
duce a direct-action glow nearly approaching the re-action 
glow following the application of cold. 

* For *' Gymnastios" see Mr. Maclaren's *' System of Physical Education," 
already quoted. For effects of unhealthy posture, see Mr. Heather Bigg's 
"Orthopraxy." 



SEQULATION OF THS BOWELS. 35 

24. If the weather is very cold or the person delicate 
and chilly, the upper half of the body should be uncovei-cd 
and rubbed first, and then a woollen vest should be put on 
and the lower half uncorered and rubbed. 

25. It is well to accustom the feet to being washed in 
cold water, but it must be done cautiously at first, and 
they should never be kept in the water more than a few 
seconds. 

26. It is obvious, that there are times when cold bath- 
ing of all kinds must be temporarily discontinued. 



REGULATION OF THE BOWELS. 

27. As a general rule, the bowels ought to act, at 
some stated time, once in the twenty-four hours ; and it 
is best to accustom them to act in the morning, after 
breakfast. 

28. If they do not act spontaneously, they should be 
assisted by some wholesome article of diet which is found 
to affect them ; or by some harmless aperient medicine, 
which must be prescribed by a medical man, to suit the 
particular case ; for the best aperient for one person may 
be the worst for another. 

29. Provided that an aperient medicine is suited to the 
case, contains no drug injurious to the general health, and 
is not taken oflener than every second night, there is no 
harm in taking it at bed-time, whenever the bowels have 
not acted satisfactorily during the day. 



d2 



36 



BEST AND CHANGE. 

30. Active life is essential to the health of body and 
mind; but both require periods of rest, in addition to the 
regular hours of sleep. It is much better, therefore, to 
work vigorously for a time and then to rest, than to keep 
up a monotonous round of lifeless drudgery. (See Sleep ; 
and Exercise). 

31. The ^'current of the thoughts'' is to the mind what 
posture is to the body; and both require change to pre- 
vent weariness and deformity. (See Posture). 

32. Best of body or mind may be obtained either by 
abstaining from all bodily or mental exercise, or by change 
of occupation, and as the one gives entire rest and the 
other only partial rest, it is best to adopt each of these 
measures at different times. 

33. It must be remembered, that, as the mind acts by 
means of the brain, which is a part of the body, it cannot 
act healthfully while the body is suffering under disease or 
exhaustion. The '^ ga'U?^ of the mind is affected by the 
condition of the brain ; as much as the ^' gaiP^ of the body 
is affected by the condition of the limbs. ^ 



SlfOEING. 



A certain number of persons have a peculiar suscepti- 
bility to the poisonous influence of Tobacco, and they 
should never touch it. But for the majority of adults 
a moderate amount of smoking does not appear to have 
any deleterious influence, and in many it acts as a useful 
antidote to brain-worry. 



37 



MEALS. 



84. Counting from the time of beginning one meal to 
that of beginning the next^ food should be taken at regular 
intervals of from four to five hours ; except the interval 
between dinner and a very sUght tea^ which may be re- 
duced to two or three hours. In weakly persons^ and 
when the appetite will allow only a very small meal to be 
taken at one time^ the intervals between all the meals 
may be reduced to from three to four hours. In illness, 
the interval must be ordered day by day by the medical 
man. 

35. The chief meal of the day — ^the full-meal — ^by what- 
ever name it is called, should be taken at whatever hour 
active occupation, both bodily and mental, can be sus- 
pended for about two hours ; provided always that not 
less than two hours elapse between the conclusion of the 
full meal and bedtime. 

86. Breakfast should be the second best meal of the 
day, and should be taken leisurely immediately after rising 
in the morning. (See Exercise). 

87. The other meals should be taken punctually at the 
fixed hours, but should be only light refreshments, and 
small in bulk. 

88. No food should be taken in the intervals between 
the regular meals. 

89. As a general rule, pure water may be taken at any 
time, if indicated by thirst, so that the body is not heated 
by exercise, and the quantity drunk at once does not ex- 
ceed a quarter of a pint. (See Exercise). 

40. Spirituous liquors should not be taken the first 
thing in the morning or the last thing at night, without 
medical orders, they should not be taken when the 
stomach is empty, and they should not be drunk stronger 



38 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

tlum in the proportion of one ounce avoirdupois of absolute 
alcohol in about ten fluid ounces of liquid. 

One of the principal sources of mischief in the use of 
alcohoUc liquors is the practice of taking them to quench 
thirst in the place of unfermented drinks. The sense of 
thirst is a call from the orgwnism for water, not for alcohol. 
Let the alcohol be taken as food^ as medicine^ or as a luxury, 
but not to quench thirst in the place of those unfermented 
liquors which are essential to health as diluents and 
solvents. (See Alcohol Table, and Bemarks on Alcohol, 
Chapters I. and V. also Appendix). 

41. Alcohol Fasts.— Those who habitually take alcohol 
daily, should abstain from it entirely for a few days twice 
or thrice a year. 

The importance of "proper hours for mbals,'^ is more 
fvUy explained in the following extracts from a letter by 
the Author, addressed to Employers, "to advance the first 
step iowa/rds improving the national dining-hours of the 
commercial a/ad worhing classes," printed for private 
circulation in 1852. 

Gentlemen, — I address you as individuals who have a 
certain influence over the habits of a large portion of the 
community. Many past events testify so much anxiety 
on your part to increase the domestic comfort and social 
happiness of your dependants, that I feel desirous to 
assist you in your praiseworthy object, by calling your 
attention to a most fruitful source of discomfort, pain, 
and even misery, peculiarly rife among the objects of 
your solicitude ; I beg, therefore, to point out to you, that 
it is in your power either to ameliorate these evils, or to 
increase them, according, as you frame some of your regu- 
lations. 



PBOPEB HOUBS FOB MBALS. 39 

That animal life cannot go on in even passable health 
and comfort mthont sufficient food and effectual digestion, 
is a fact perfectly familiar to all ; yet^ unhappily, among 
those who live an in-door life, effectual digestion is 
scarcely ever known. They constitute the bulk of that 
enormous number of persons who suffer from what is 
popularly known as "indigestion/^ 

Now, there can be no question that they are pre-dis- 
posed to this class of diseases by many circumstances, 
quite inseparable from their occupations. But that makes 
it the more desirable to avoid all those causes of disease 
which are not necessary to their pursuits. 

I must request you to remember that I am not speaking 
of any particular form of indigestion, but in a general 
and broad sense, of all those various maladies classed 
under the popular term. 

The choice of the hours at which clerks, shopmen, me- 
chanics, labourers, and other business-servants of both 
sexes take their meals, depends almost entirely upon the 
decision of their superiors. 

If these hours are not well chosen, indigestion, in some 
form, is the certain consequence sooner or later. And 
you will see, from the few plain facts which I shall lay 
before you, that the notions which have long prevailed as 
to the proper hours for taking food, and consequently the 
regulations of nearly all business establishments, in this 
respect, are inconsistent with the conditions which phy- 
siology teaches us to be essential to healthy digestion, 
with the requirements of the various occupations by which 
servants gain their livelihood, and with the conventional 
arrangements of society in the present day. 

I shall hope, by avoiding all technicalities and minute 
physiological details, and by employing the plainest popu- 
lar terms, to make my meaning perfectly intelligible to 



40 FBOFEB HOURS FOB MEALS. 

the nnprofessional^ to whoxn^ in this instance^ it is neces- 
sary to address my remarks; and I now ask yom* particu- 
lar attention to the following statement of the conditions 
necessary to healthy digestion. 

1. Food of appropriate quality and bulk. 

2. In the case of a full meal, — ^rest of body and tran- 
quility of mind for a short time previous to taking food^ 
and for at least an hour afterwards. In the case of a 
light meaZ,— gentle exercise, and moderate mental activity 
may be allowed with impunity. 

3. Effectual mastication, by which the alimentary mat- 
ter is completely disintegrated and saturated with saliva, 
and the meal taken slowly. 

4. A sufficient interval between any two meals, to allow 
the first to have been digested and removed from the 
stomach, long enough for the digestive functions to re- 
gain their full vigour, before the second is introduced. 
The period which should intervene wiU depend upon the 
rapidity of digestion, which may vary according to the 
quantity eaten, the state of the health, the nature and 
amount of the previous exercise, the condition of the 
mind, and many other circumstances. 

5. Caution that the stomach is not left empty long 
enough for the system to become exhausted, and the 
digestive powers thereby weakened. 

6. Strict adherence to the same hours for taking food, 
that the stomach may acquire a habit of preparing for its 
reception. 

7. An interval between the last meal and bed time, 
sufficient to allow the work of digestion to be concluded 
before lying down to sleep. 

Many other conditions might be mentioned, but as the 
few main points already stated are enough for our present 
purpose, I shall confine myself to them. 



PBOPSB HOUBS FOB XSAL8. 41 

The drcninstances under which the majority of those 
persons are placed^ whose health we are principally con- 
sidering^ must now be reviewed, in order to compare them 
with the conditions essential to healthy digestion^ and to 
draw the necessary conclusions as to the pbopeb houbs fob 

MIALS. 

Erom the factory artisan up to the banker's or mer- 
chant's clerk, several important circumstances are com- 
mon to all. 

1. The day is devoted to labour either of the body or of 
the mind, or of both. 

2. Business must be continued unremittingly up to the 
moment of leaving for meals, and resumed immediately 
on returning from them. 

3. The time which can be spared for meals during busi- 
ness hours, must necessarily be very limited. 

4. Some portion of this short time must be occupied in 
repairing to, and returning from the refreshment place. 

In many instances, especially in retail trades, the nature 
of the business renders it impossible to keep to fixed 
times for those meals taken during working hours. 

The fact of taking time for meals out of the middle of 
the day, necessarily makes it later in the eveniag before 
the business can be finished ; and this not only to the ex- 
tent of the time during which work is actually stopped, 
for we all know how much the progress of business is in- 
terrupted by the simple acts of discontinuing and recom- 
mencing it, more especially when books and calculations 
are concerned. The effects of these combined circum- 
stances may be viewed daily by visiting the public dining 
rooms attended by clerks, the lodgings of labourers at 
their dinner hour, and the offices and factories before and 
after meal-time — dinner-time more particularly, and din- 
ner being the principal meal in the day — the full meal — 
it is of it that I shall chiefly speak. 



42 PBOFEB HOURS FOB MEALS. 

Twelve, one and two o'clock seem to be the national 
dining hours for the working classes, and sixty minutes 
the maximum time allowed from business for this chief meal. 
The hour having arrived, books or tools are hastily laid 
aside, and the dining place is reached by a sharp walk, 
which adds to the bodily fatigue of the labourer, and is 
not long enough or sufficiently leisurely to rest the brain 
of the accountant. The dinner must be despatched hur- 
riedly, or there will not be time for the artizan to smoke 
his pipe, or for the clerk to glance at Ths Times ; or per- 
haps the reading and eating are carried on at once. 
Mastication is carelessly performed, the mind is kept 
occupied, and the stomach rapidly loaded with food before 
it has had time to make ready for it ; and, in some cases 
a larger quantity is taken than the stomach has power to 
dispose of, simply because it is introduced too expedi- 
tiously for the system to become acquainted, as it were, 
that the supply of its wants is being effected. The meal 
finished, and the paper glanced at, or the pipe smoked, 
the sharp walk must be repeated, now with a full stomach, 
and business resumed before digestion has had time even 
to commence : and at this period, when the organic ener- 
gies ought to be all concentrated about the stomach, they 
are at once summoned to the brain or to the muscular 
system. Consequently, the meal remains imperfectly di- 
gested, or not digested at all, lingers in the stomach 
beyond its proper time, and is finally expelled in an un- 
natural condition, unfitted to undergo the important 
changes necessary before it can be appropriated for 
healthy nutrition. In all probability the next meal is 
introduced before the former one has entirely left the 
stomach, and thus the mischief is increased. Compar- 
ing the circumstances, here briefly enumerated, with 
those essential to healthy digestion, laid down before. 



FBOPEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 43 

the antagonism, so evident between them, plainly shows 
that " Dyspepsia," or difficult digestion, is only the natur- 
al consequence of so persistent a disregard of the laws of 
health. 

I am aware that diiBTerent businesses do, from their na- 
ture, present various obstacles in the way of carrying out 
such sanitary measures as are most desirable, and that 
one set of rules will not always be practicable in two 
estabUshments. Therefore, I should advise that the few 
principal conditions of healthy digestion before mentioned 
be carefully borne in mind ; and that in each establish- 
ment the hours for meals be so selected, that these 
conditions and the calls of business may be arranged in 
unison with each other. 

For a considerable period of time, during which my 
attention has been more particularly directed to this 
subject, I have made extensive inquiries on points con- 
nected with it, among employers and their servants, and 
have also had sufficient opportunities of enforcing the 
better regulation of meals upon both classes, with effects 
so decidedly beneficial, that I can with confidence impress 
the importance of the alterations I propose, and I am 
convinced of their general practicability. After this 
experience and a mature consideration of the subject 
scientifically, I beg leave to call attention to those re- 
gulations, which appear to me to afford the nearest ap- 
proach to the healthy standard that can be practicably 
arranged to meet the necessary obligations of business 
establishments in general.* 

Let me assume that a substantial breakfast has been 
taken soon after rising, and a space of time allowed 
to elapse between the meal and the commencement of 

* Thif was written twenty years ago and subsequent experience has 
amply proved the yalue of the rules laid down. 



44 PBOFEB HOUBS FOB KEAL8. 

active business ; (in those cases where the hour for busi- 
ness is very early^ the breakfast should be divided^ the 
fast being broken by a light fluid meal^ and a second 
light meal taken some hours after). But to return to the 
better plan. Breakfast having been taken^ and the day's 
employment commenced^ the arrangements are now under 
the direction of the employer. Irom this moment until 
labour, whether mental or bodily, has ceased, no vxTLL-m^al 
should be allowed. This is to be considered the fibst 
aoLDEN BULE. The SECOND is not less important — ^that 
some light refection should be taken punctually every four 
or five hours. By adhering to the first rule^ the system 
will never be charged with the task of active digestion at 
times when it is amply engaged in other functions ; the 
digestive organs will not be injured by being called upon 
to undertake what they cannot properly perform ; while 
the servant will not suflFer from that oppressive languor 
and inertia^ so unavoidable after a full meal^ and will be 
so much the better fitted for his duties. By the second 
rule the system is maintained in a state of energy^ the 
light refreshment^ being easily ^gested during bodily or 
mental activity^ supports the strength much more than a 
full but ill-digested and unassimilated meal can possibly 
do^ and leaves the stomach itself unwearied^ in a state of 
healthy vigour when the hour of relaxation from business 
arrives. Even in weak persons^ a light meal will almost 
invariably have quitted the stomach in four or at most five 
hours, and in the strong considerably sooner than this ; at 
intervals of four or five hours, therefore, according to the 
strength of the individual and the rapidity of his diges- 
tion, the stomach will be preparing for firesh work, and 
will call for it by the return of appetite, which must not 
on any account be disregarded. And in this place I must 
again impress upon you the sebious impobtance to health. 



FBOPBB HOURS FOB MEALS. 45 

OF NOT NEGLBCnNG THESE OCCASIONAL BEFBESHKENTS DUBINO 
BUSINESS. 

The day's labour over^ the objections to taking a full 
meal are at an end^ provided the second golden mle has 
been obserred ; and the amount of refreshment^ necessary 
to repair the wear and tear of the day's exertions^ may 
now be taken with decided advantage. I must here re- 
mind both employers and employed^ that rest of mind and 
of body are necessary for a short time before taking a 
meal.* To those who have been mentally occupied with 
sedentary businessj a short leisurely walk will be a very 
proper prelude to dinner; but to those whose physical 
powers have been taxed during the day^ there should be a 
short period of perfect rest before commencing the chief 
meal. It is a habit too common among commercial men 
to return home^ impatient for their dinners^ and to com- 
mence eating immediately^ while in a fatigued condition. 
I have^ in many instances^ induced such persons to lie 
down for a quarter of an hour before beginning their meal; 
and have seen so much benefit arise from this practice^ 
that I can confidently recommend it to all who are 
actively engaged during the day. When the dinner is 
finished^ one hour at least should be devoted to mental 
and physical tranquility — some leisurely amusement being 
preferable to sleep. (See Sleep.) When the meal has not 
exceeded the bounds of moderation^ a sufficient quantity of 
gastric fluid for the digestion of the whole will generally 
be secreted within this period of rest; after which^ the 
same quantity of blood and nervous energy being no long- 
er required by the stomachy some more active employment 
of the mind or body may be indulged in^ and all will go 
on well. 

The full meal of the day, then — ^the dinner — should, 
under ordinary circumstances, be taken between the hours 



46 FBOF£B HOUfiS FOB MEALS. 

of five and seven p.m., which will allow time for it to be 
entirely disposed of before the hour of sleep arrives ; and 
as the whole night passes without refreshment, a light 
refection such as our national " tea/' is very desirable a 
few hours before bed-time. These arrangements will be 
found perfectly consistent with the essential conditions of 
healthy digestion; and, with a little contrivance and 
modification of hours in peurticular instances, are practi- 
cable in the majority of large establishments. And here 
let the friends of ^^ early closing^' observe, that by doing 
away with the injurious mid-day dinner, there will be so 
much saving of time in the best part of the day, and con- 
sequently a better opportunity of concluding business 
earlier in the evening. 

It remains for me briefly to point out some of the incon- 
sistencies of the system now most popular among dyspep- 
tics and those employed in business. The dinner being 
taken at one or two o'clock must necessarily be a hurried 
one ; it is impossible in the middle of business to allow 
time for rest, before or after the meal, to any serviceable 
extent : the evil consequences of this, in a large number 
of instances, have been already referred to. The " tea" 
being taken between five and seven o'clock, can only be a 
light meal, for the stomach does not require more so soon 
after dinner, therefore there is but one alternative, to leave 
the system without substantial nourishment from two 
o'clock p.m. until breakfast next day, or to take another 
meal just before bed-time : of the two the latter would be 
the better, if the supper could be limited to a very mode- 
rate refection; but after waiting fi:om an early dinner 
until nine or ten o'clock in the evening, a person in health 
has too good an appetite to be contented with this ; there- 
fore the stomach is loaded at a time when it cannot empty 
itself properly before the hour of sleep ; the disadvantages 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 47 

of which are too familiar to need repeating here. Any 
one^ therefore^ who is anxious to regulate his diet accord- 
ing to the popular ideas of what is healthy, finds him self 
in this dilemma. He believes it to be an essential point 
that he should dine at an early hour. He knows that rest 
before meals^ eating them slowly^ and rest after them^ are 
all necessary to proper digestion. He also knows per- 
fectly well that^ in the middle of the day^ his business will 
not allow him either the rest or the leisurely dinner. 
Supper he is convinced is a most unwholesome meal^ yet 
he knows from sore experience, that to fast from his early 
''tea" until next morning, leaves him too exhausted to 
sleep comfortably, to rise with vigour, or to enjoy break- 
fast. At lengthy if he reason at all^ it becomes clear to 
him that to do what he thinks right in one respect^ he 
must do wrong in anothei— a sufficient proof that there is 
error in the whole system. 



CHAPTER III. 
POOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

A FOOT-POUND A FOOT-TON A BeITISH UNIT OF HEAT — Mb- 

chanical-Equivalent of a British unit of heat — 
^ Combustion of Carbon, Consumption of Oxygen, Evo- 
lution of Heat — ^Mode in which the heat evolved 

FROM food is disposed OF — COMPOSITION OP SOME OF 
THE PRINCIPAL ARTICLES OF FOOD AND THEIR HeAT-EqUI- 
VALBNTS. 

S* See Essentials of a Normal Diet. Chapter IV. 

The relation between food, heat, and mechanical force 
has been the subject of some of the most important in- 
vestigations of late years, and the light which has been 
thrown upon it is one of the greatest steps in the progress 
of medical science. But so far as medical art and practice 
are concerned, very little application has yet been made 
of this advance in scientific knowledge. This is only what 
might be expected, considering the occult nature of the 
subject, and the scarcity of time among the great body 
of medical practitioners to master and familiarise them- 
selves with the details of such departments of medical 
progress. 

Nevertheless, it is high time that such facts as are at 
present known, and such applications of them as are at 
present possible, should be added to the common stock of 
knowledge possessed by practical medical men ; for it is 
only in this way that the public can derive benefit from 
our advances in science. 

For the purpose, therefore, of enabling practitioners 
easily to familiarise themselves with these matters, the 
following concise statement has been prepared : — 

1. A Foot-pound is the amount of mechanical force re- 
quired to raise a pound weight one foot. 



FOODj HBAT, AND MOTION. 49 

2. A British Unit of Heat is the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. 

3. This amount of heat (a British unit) may be convert- 
ed into mechanical force sufficient to raise a pound weight 
772 feet. 

4. This amount of heat (a British unit) is generated 
by a pound weight falling through a space of 772 feet. 
Hence 772 foot-pounds is called the Mechanical Equivalent 
of a British unit of heat. 

5. One ton weight is 2,240 lbs.; ^ = 0-34465; 
therefore, the heat units multiplied by 0*34465, will al- 
ways give the mechanical equivalent in Foot-tons, 

6. The heat of combustion of carbon and hydrogen /tiZZy 
oxidised (to CO^ and H^O) is as follows : — 

1 lb. <2 62'oS2\ ^^*^^ Units of Heat. 

7. The total heat of combustion of a compound contain- 
ing H and G is the sum of the quantities of heat which the 
C and H contained in it would produce separately by their 
combustion. 

8. It has been found that the presence of Hydrogen 
with Oxygen in the proportion to form water does not affect 
the total heat of combustion. It is only the excess of Hy- 
drogen that can be made serviceable as a source of avail- 
able heat. 

9. The mean consumption of oxygen by an adult man 
of average stature (weight 150 lbs.) taking ordinary exer- 
cise is about 30 ozs. avoirdupois in 24 hours, and the 
heat evolved by each 1 oz. of oxygen in combining with 
carbon, hydrogen, etc., is about 340 British units. Hence, 
10,000 British units of heat will be evolved every 24 hours 
by the combination of 30 ozs. of oxygen with carbon, 
hydrogen, etc. ; therefore, the food of an adult man, under 

£ 



50 VOOD, HEAT^ AND MOTION. 

ordinary circumstances^ should be such as may^ in addi- 
tion to other purposes^ evolve at least 10^000 British units 
of heat. 

10. Practical experience in the dieting of large num- 
bers of men^ and other means^ have enabled us to estabUsh 
the fact^ that such an average man^ as above described^ 
requires^ for the maintenance of healthy a diet which shall 
contain about 4 ozs. of plastic materials^ 3 ozs. of fat^ 
and 10 ozs. of carbo-hydrates ; and on careful analysis of 
this diet, we find that it can supply the required 10,000 
British units of heat — ^viz., 2,516 from the plastic, 3,357 
from the fat, and 4,150 from the carbo-hydrates; total, 
10,023. 

11. The mode in which these 10,000 British units of 
heat are disposed of, and the purposes which they serve, 
may be seen in the following calculation which has been 
made as nearly correct as possible. 8,000 British units 
are required as sensible heat, — to raise the temperature 
of the inspired air to the temperature of the body, to 
vaporise the pulmonary halitus, and to maintain animal 
heat. The mechanical equivalent of 2,000 British units 
(equal "to 690 foot-tons) is expended in actual work, 
more than half of which is employed in internal vital 
work (the mechanical work of the heart alone is equivalent 
to 200 foot-tons; respiratory and other vital movements 
may be estimated as equivalent to nearly 200 foot-tons 
more), leaving about 290 foot-tons available for external 
work, which may be represented by the labour of walking 
16 miles; but of course only so much is available for 
actual walking, as is not used in the other external move- 
ments of the body, which we daily perform. 

In the following table the conditions laid down in No. 
6, 7, 8, of the foregoing paragraphs have been observed in 
calculating the British units of heat given in the last co- 
lumn. 



POOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 



51 



The composition of the artiolei of food in this table will not be fonnd to agree 
exactly with any one published analysis. 186 separate analyses by eminent chemists 
have been examined and compared for the purpose of fixing, as nearly as practicablsj 
the approximate mecm composition of each article. 



Articles op 
Food. 


Oz8. Avoirdu- 
pois. 


Plastic. 1 


1 


• 

■5 

CO 


• 

II 

1 



1 


1 

0. 


• 

.s 


1 


N. 


H. 


0. 


c. 


British Unitt of 1 
Heat. 1 


Apple . . . 




I'OOO 


•002 


— 


•136 


'OOI 


'022 




•839 


— 


•009 


•072 


•058 


53 


Bacon (dried) . 




I.OOO 


•084 


•625 


— 






•005 


286 


•013 


'078 


•078 


'540 


754 


Bread . . . 




I'OOO 


'lOO 


007 


•453 




'010 


'010 


'420 


•016 


•037 


247 


•260 


259 


Butter . . . 




I'OOO 


'010 


•860 






— 


'OIO 


'lao 


•002 


•100 


•083 


•685 


968 


Cheese . . . 




1*000 


•308 


•256 


'024 




— 


•047 


•365 


•049 


•053 


'I08 


•378 


495 


Egg ... . 




I'OOO 


•150 


'I08 


— 




— 


•025 


'717 


'024 


•023 


•045 


•166 


aiS 


Fig (dried) . . 




I'OOO 


•050 


•009 


•570 


— 


•150 


•034 


'I87 


'008 


•044 


•329 


'248 


236 


Fish (fresh) . 




I'OOO 


'I66 


'008 


— 






•029 


•797 


•026 


•013 


•039 


'096 


118 


Flour (Wheat) . 


I'OOO 


'I42 


•010 


'698 


— 


•013 


•012 


'I25 


•023 


•056 


•377 


•394 


39a 


Indian Com Meal 


I'OOO 


081 


•045 


'700 




'028 


•008 


•138 


•013 


•056 


•367 


•390 


393 


Meat (Butcher's" 
cooked . . / 


I'OOO 


•225 


'089 


— 


— 


— 


•025 


'661 


•036 


•026 


'060 


'I92 


^45 


Milk (new) . 




I'OOO 


•045 


•031 


'048 


— 


— 


•006 


•870 


'007 


•OIO 


•039 


•068 


81 


Oatmeal . . 




I'OOO 


•150 


•058 


•532 


— 


•096 


•038 


•134 


'024 


•052 


•302 


•362 


383 


Pea (dry) . . 




I'OOO 


'219 


•015 


•469 




•133 


'027 


'I37 


•035 


'048 


•283 


•337 


354 


Pork (fresh) 




I'OOO 


•175 


•160 


— 


— 


— 


•022 


•643 


'028 


•031 


•055 


'221 


293 


Potatoes 




I'OOO 


'OI7 




•230 




•016 


•on 


•726 


•003 


'OI6 


•117 


•III 


106 


Rice . . . 




I'OOO 


•051 


'004 


'817 




•033 


•005 


•090 


008 


057 


•414 


393 


376 


Suet . . . 




I'OOO 


— 


'860 




•020 


— 


— 


'120 


•003 


'lOI 


•086 


•690 


975 


Sugar (loaO 




I'OOO 


— 


— 


•900 


— 


— 




'lOO 


— 


•059 


'460 


•381 


350 


Vegetables (fresh) 


I'OOO 


'01 


•002 


'078 


— 


•008 


'007 

> 


'895 


•002 


•006 


•043 


•039 


38 



The Mechanical Equivalent of the British Units of Heat may be calculated according 

to the directions given at p. 49. 

i2 



CHAPTER IV. 

NORMAL DIET. 
Essentials of a nosmal diet — mode ov constbuctinq diets 

— EXPENSIVE DIETS AND CHEAP DIETS FOB MAINTAINING 
HEALTH — TABLES AND ANALYSES. 



ESSENTIALS OF A NORMAL DIET. 
(See Food, Heat, Motion.) 

A healthy adult man of average stature taking moderate 
exercisOj will require and can consume, daily, from 32 to 
40 ounces avoirdupois of dry nutritious food, which should 
have the following characters : — 

1. About r^ must be mineral matter. 

200 

2. Prom f to J may be water, leaving f or not less 
than \ or from 15 to 20 ozs. of anhydrous solid alimentary 
material. 

3. Three or four ounces of plastic matter must be com- 
bined with three or four times that quantity of heat-giving 
material. 

4. The heat-giving constituents must contain a mixture 
of fats (hydro-carbons) with saccharine materials (carbo- 
hydrates), in the proportion of about 1 of the former to 3 
of the latter. 

5. These heat-giving constituents should supply from 6 
to 10 ounces of carbon, the exact amount required varying 
with season, exercise, etc. 

6. The Articles of Food must be sufficiently varied to 



NOBMAL DIET. 53 

meet the reqairements of the taste and of the appetite, 
and their Mechanical and other Conditions mnst be suited 
to the digestive powers of the stomach. 

In addition to these characters, every complete diet 
must contain some potash-vegetable or fruit; and the 
total amount of water taken in 24 hours, including that 
contained in the dry food, must not be less than 70 ozs. 
avoirdupois. 



DIET TABLES FOR THE MAINTENANCE OP HEALTH IX 
ADULTS LIVING IN THE CLIMATE OP THE UNITED KING- 
DOM. 

Each diet table contains all the essential elements of 
nutrition, in forms, quantities and proportions necessary 
to the maintenance of health. The tables have been made 
complete without alcohol, leaving this to be ordered or 
not, according to circumstances. But, if spirituous liquors 
are added to any diet table, the quantity of carbon which 
they contain must be borne in mind. (See Alcohol Table 
Chapter V.) 

It will be observed that the totals of the corresponding 
columns of the analyses are nearly the same in all the 
diet tables, showing the important fact that all the 
essentials of a normal diet may be equally secured in a 
diet that is simple and cheap and in one that is compli- 
cated and expensive. 

In all diets Salt must be used and in those which do 
not include Potatoes some other Potash- vegetable or Fruit 
or Cresses or Lime or Lemon juice must be taken, 



54 



NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. I. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




OZ8. 


0Z8. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




6 


Meat, Poultry or 


• 














Game (cooked) . 


3*97 


1*35 


•53 


• •«• 


•42 




4 


Fish . 




3*19 


•66 


•03 


• ••• 


•02 




zo 


Bread . 






4*20 


i-oo 


•07 


4*53 


1*93 




8 


Potatoes 






5-81 


•14 


• ••« 


1-84 


•76 




a 


Rice . 






•18 


•10 


•01 


1*63 


73 




*i 


Sugar . 






• ••• 


•••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


105 




^ 


Butter . 






• ••• 


••.» 


250 


• •• • 


1-85 


5 




Milk . 






434 


•25 


•17 


•21 


•22 


z6 




Coffee . 






1577 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•22 


•10 


i6 




Tea . 






15-05 


• •• • 


• ••• 


•05 


•02 


17 




Water . 






17- 


— ^ 








54 


36 




70-41 


350 


3-31 


10*98 


7-01 






In Plastic ix 


latter 
Total 


t 
• 


• • 

• • 


1-89 


• 


8-99 



No. 2. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




8 


Meat, Poultry, or 
















Game (cooked) . 


5'29 


Z'8o 


71 


•••« 


•56 




la 


Bread . 




5-04 


I-20 


•08 


5'44 


2-32 




Z2 


Potatoes 






8-71 


•20 


#••• 


2^76 


I-I4 




2 


Butter . 






• ••• 


#••• 


2'00 


• #•• 


1^48 




2 


Sugar . 
Milk . 






• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


2'00 


•84 


5 








4*34 


•25 


•18 


•21 


•23 


Z6 




Chocolate 






15-20 


•07 


•32 


•38 


•42 


z6 




Tea 






15-95 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•05 


•02 


z6 




Water . 






i6-oo 






>•«• 




53 


36 




70*53 


3-52 


3-29 


10-84 


7*01 






In Plastic matter 


• 
• 


• • 

• • 


I '90 










i 


Total 


8-91 



NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 



55 



No. 3. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


028. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


oxs. 




z8 


Bread . 


7*56 


I -80 


•12 


8^I5 


3'47 




3i 


Cheese '. 


• 




1-28 


1*07 


•89 


•08 


•70 




3 


Bacon . 






76 


•25 


x-88 


•••• 


1-48 




li 


Sugar . 






«••* 


• *.. 


•*.« 


I -50 


•63 


5 




Milk . . 






4*33 


•25 


•17 


•21 


•22 


20 




Chocolate 






IQ'OO 


•10 


•40 


•50 


•50 


20 




Tea 






19-93 


• ••• 


• a*. 


•07 


•04 


20 


26 


Water . 






20'00 


— — 


'— 






65 




72-86 


3-47 


3*55 


10*5 1 


7-04 






In Plastic matter 


• 
• 


• ■ 

• • 


1*87 












Total 


8'9i 



No. 4. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


' F... 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


OZS. 


OZS. 


ozs. 




8 


Fish 


6^38 


1-33 


•06 


•••• 


•05 




16 


Bread . 






672 


I -60 


•11 


7-25 


309 




8 


Potatoes 






5-81 


•14 


• ••• 


1-84 


•76 




2i 


Butter . 






• ••• 


.... 


2*50 


..*• 


1-85 


10 




Milk . 






6-93 


-40 


-28 


•34 


•36 


20 




Cocoa . 






19*10 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




Ij 


Sugar . 






• ••• 


• ••• 


• ##• 


1-50 


•63 


25 


36 


Water . 






25*00 






-^ 


— 


55 




69-94 


3-57 


3*55 


ii'i3 


7*30 






In Plastic matter 
Total 


• 
• 


• • 

• • 


I '93 




9-23 



56 



NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 



JTo. 5. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


ilurd 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




0Z8. 


ozs. 




028. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




z6 


Bread . 


672 


I '60 


•II 


725 


3-09 




3 


Peas 




•41 


•65 


•04 


I "40 


•65 




4 


Bacon . 




ri4 


•33 


2*50 


• ••• 


1-98 




2 


Cheese . 




•73 


•61 


•51 


•05 


•40 


zo 




Milk . 




6*94 


•40 


•28 


•34 


•36 


20 




Coffee . 




1971 


•••• 


• #•• 


•28 


•13 




I 


Sugar . 




• ■•• 


••.• 


• ••• 


I'OO 


•42 


35 




Water . 




35'oo 


— 




— — 




63 


26 




70-65 


3*59 


3*44 


10*32 


7*03 






In Plastic matter 


• 
• 


• • 

> • 


1-94 








Total 


8-97 



No. 6. 



Liquid. 


1 

Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


40 




Milk . 


34-68 


2'00 


I '40 


1-68 


I -So 




4 


Rice 




, ■ 


•36 


•20 


•02 


3'26 


1*46 




3 


Eggs (two) 




1 


2-15 


•45 


•32 


• ••• 


•26 




2| 


Sugar . 






.... 


.... 


*••• 


2*50 


1.05 




I 


Butter . 






.... 


..•« 


I'OO 


• ••• 


74 




9 


Bread . 






378 


•90 


•06 


4-o8 


174 


30 




Water . 






30*00 
70-97 


— 








70 


igi^ 




3*55 


2-8o 


11*52 


7-05 






In Plai 


Stic matter 


• • 

• • 


1*92 












To 


tal 


8-97 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



57 



No. 7. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 

• 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








Fine. 




0Z8. 


0Z8. 




ozs. 


028. 


028. 


028. 


028. 




20 


Bread . 


8-40 


2*00 


•14 


9'06 


3*86 




3 


Eggs (two) . 






•21 


•44 


•32 


• ••t 


•26 




x| 


Butter . 






• ••• 


• ... 


1*50 


• ••• 


I'll 


20 




Milk . 






17*34 


I'OO 


•70 


•84 


•90 


20 




Cocoa . 






19*10 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




1 


Sugar . 






• ••• 


• **• 


• •■• 


75 


•31 


25 




Water . 






25*00 


-^— 




-~-" 




65 


asi 




70*05 


3*54 


326 


10*85 


7*oo 






In Plastic matter 


• • 

• • 


i'9i 












Total 


8^91 



No. 8. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








nne. 




ozs. 


028. 




ozs. 


028. 


028. 


028. 


028. 




8 


Rice 


•72 


•40 


•03 


6*54 


2*93 




7i 


Eggs (five) . 


5-40 


I*II 


•80 


*.*• 


•65 




2i 


Sugar . 


• ••• 


...• 


.... 


2*50 


1*05 




i| 


Butter . 


• ••• 


• .*. 


1*25 


*..• 


•92 


40 




Milk . 


34*68 


2*00 


1*40 


1*68 


1*80 


30 




Water . 


30*00 


— — 




— 


— * 


70 


I9i 




70*80 


3-51 


3-48 


10*72 


r35 








InPla 


Stic matter 


• • 

• • 


1*89 




Tc 


ital 


9*24 



58 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. 9. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




9 


Flour . 


i'i3 


1*28 


*09 


6*28 


2*82 




If 


Suet . 


«••• 


••«• 


175 


• ••• 


1-38 




3 


Sugar . 


• ••« 


•*•« 


• ••• 


3*oo 


1*26 




6 


Eggs (four) . 


4*32 


•88 


•64 


.*>. 


•52 


27 




Milk . 


23-41 


135 


•94 


I-I3 


1*21 


42 




Water . 


42*00 


— 




— 


— 


69 


19I 




70*86 


3*51 


3:42 


10*41 


7*19 








InPla 


Stic maitter 


. a 
• • 


1*89 




Total 


9*o8 



No. 10. 



Liquid, 
fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 
ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water, 
ozs. 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 

• rine. 

ozs. 


Carbon, 
ozs. 


22 
49 


z6 

If 
1 


Oatmeal 
Milk . 
Butter . 
Sugar . 
Water . 


2*14 

19*07 

• ••■ 

• ••• 

49*00 


2*40 
1*10 


•93 

77 

175 

• ••• 


8-51 
•90 

75 


4-46 
.99 

1*30 
32 


71 


zSi 




70*21 


3*50 


3*45 


10*16 


7*07 








In Pla 


Stic matter 


• • 

• • 


1*89 




Tc 


>tal 


8*96 



No. II. 



Liquid, 
fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 

ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water, 
ozs. 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine, 
ozs. 


Carbon, 
ozs. 


60 


2 


Bread . 
Cheese . 
Butter . 
Water . 


10*50 
I*i8 
.... 

6o*oo 


2*50 

1*00 

.... 


•J7 
•83 

.2*00 


"•33 
*08 

• ••• 


4*82 

•65 
1*48 


60 


30I 




71*68 


3-50 


3*oo 


11*41 


6*95 








In Plastic matter 


1*89 






Tc 


»tal 


• • 


8*84 



NORMAL DIBT TABLES. 



59 



The following diet table was arranged^ with great re- 
gard for both economy and healthy for a charitable institu- 
tion, the inmates of which consisted of children averaging 
aboid ten years of age, who had all been taken from utterly 
destitute homes. 



No. 12. 



Liquid. 

fluid 
ozs. 


Dry 
ozs. 


Food for 7 days. 


This standard diet to be provided 
per head for all the children in the 




16 
122 

2 
Z2 

ZO 

5 

4 

2 

4 

h 

3 
12 

7 


Meat (cooked) 

Bread 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Suet Pudding (&ee 

recipe, Chap. IX.) 
Flour Pudding (see 

recipe, Chap. IX.) 
Cheese 
Peas (dry) 
Indian Corn Meal 
Cocoa (dry) 
Treacle 

Green Vegetables 
Dripping or Butter 
Milk 
Water (in addition 

to that contained 

in dry food.) 


Asylum and whatever is not taken 
by those under 10 years of age to be 
allowed to those over 10. 




Chemical (approximate) composition 
Pet Day. 




Water. 

fluid 
ozs. 

63- 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 


Carbon, 
ozs. 


So 


3*37 


2*07 


10-50 


6-05 


2Z0 


In Plastic matter . . 


176 






290 


i99i 








Total 


I . . 


7-81 



The attention of those who visit the poor is requested to 
the following paragraph. 

There is considerable diflSculty in selecting diets for the 
very poor, which combine cheapness and simplicity with 
the essential chemical composition, in a form which the 
stomach will tolerate. But the two following will be 
found to fulfil all these conditions, so far as it is possible 
to do so without the introduction of meat ; and in one of 



60 NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 

them bread is given in the largest quantity consistent 
with health : — 

No. 13. 

Allowance for twenty-four hours: Bread, 25 oz. ; 
cheese, 2 oz. ; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These yield 
to analysis : plastic material, 3*1 oz.; fat, 2*3. ; saccharine 
material, 11*4 oz. 

No. 14. 

Allowance for twenty-four hours: oatmeal, 16 oz. ; 
milk, i pint; butter, suet, or dripping, 1 oz. These yield 
to analysis : plastic material, 3*0 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; saccha- 
rine, 9*0 oz. 

To each of these diets must be added limejuice or some 
land vegetable, salt, and a free supply of pure water. (See 
appendix on Bread diet and Typhus fever). 



CHAPTER V. 

FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

Acid and Sugar in Spirituous Liquors — Ardent Spirits 

AND THEIR PECULIARITIES — ^ADMINISTRATION OF AlCOHOL 

— ^porpertibs of various wines — ^wlnes in general — 
Spanish Wines^Greek Wines — Gterman Wines — 
Hungarian Wines — ^Alcohol table showing the ana- 
lysis OF Spirituous Liquors. 



ACID AND sugar IN SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 

It is important to remember that although a fluid may 
contain much acid and therefore be unfit for some sto- 
machs^ it will not generate acid if it is free from saccha- 
rine matter^ whereas a fluid containing saccharine matter 
will generate acid although it may not contain any. 



ardent spirits and their pecullarities. 

Brandy makes people nervous^ Grin weakens^ Bum and 
Whiskey produce biliousness. Whiskey is the least objec- 
tionable. None should be taken neat, and when mixed 
with water or other fluids they should be well incorpor- 
ated by pouring many times from one vessel to anoUier. 
When Whiskey produces biliousness. Bum, which has 
been made hot and then cooled, may be tried instead. ' 



62 



ADMINISTRATION OF ALCOHOL. 

According to my own experience^ based upon long and 
careful observation, an average-sized adult man taking 
moderate exercise may drink with advantage enough 
fermented liquors, each 24 hours, to represent from one 
to two ounces avoirdupois of absolute alcohol equivalent 
to from If to 3^ ounces of proof spirit — ^provided it be 
always diluted to the extent of 10 fluid ounces (half- 
a-pint imperial) of water or some other unfermented 
liquor to each ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol, and 
that it be taken when there is food in the stomach. (See 
Chapter IV. and Appendix). 



THE PROPEBTIES OF VABIOUS WINES. 

The subject of wine has of late years become so exten- 
sive — embracing so many considerations connected with 
such numerous varieties of wine from different parts of 
the world, — that I have thought it best to give the practi- 
cal experience of several recognized authorities specially 
acquainted with different departments of the subject. 

I am glad, therefore, to be able to present the following 
matter from such reUable sources. 

The observations on Wines in General are from the 
pen of my friend Mr. James L. Johnston, late Principal 
Inspector of Customs Laboratories, who has, undoubtedly, 
more correct practical and scientific knowledge of fer- 
mented liquors than any other person in this country. 

For the account of the wines of Spain I am indebted 
to Mr. F. W, Cosens the celebrated Spanish wine mer- 
chant. 

The description of the Wines of Germany and of the 



ADMINISTRATION Of ALCOHOL. 63 

distinctive medicinal properties attributed to them in the 
districts where they are grown, has been kindly furnished 
by Mr. M. A. Verfariizen of Fell Street, City, who is well 
known to have devoted much time to this subject. 

Mr. Denman, of Piccadilly, the principal introducer of 
the Wines of Greece, and the author of several works on 
wine, has favoured me with the concise statement of the 
medicinal properties attributed to these wines by the nu- 
merous medical men who have communicated to him their 
experience. 

For the notice of the wines of Hungary I am indebted 
to Mr. Max Greger of Mincing Lane, City, who first 
introduced the pure Hungarian wines into this country, 
and who has so creditably maintained his character both 
for a scientific and practical knowledge of the wines 
of his native land, and for the conscientiousness with 
which he attends to the orders of medical men, when they 
consider it important that only the purest and most ma- 
ture wines shall be supplied to their patients. 

I give the statements of these several authorities in 
their own words, and they are responsible for them ; but, 
so far as it is practicable for one person to do so, I have 
endeavoured to test the correctness of their opinions by 
my own experience. 

I, have only further to add, that there is no department 
of commerce in which '^commercial immorality^^ is so 
atrociously and so easily practised as in the wine trade, 
the most professed connoiseurs being often the most 
"taken in;^^ and, that I know of no protection against the 
misfortune of drinking half poisonous trash instead of 
genuine wholesome wine, except that of cautiously select- 
ing a wine merchant of known honour and probity, and 
then leaving to him the entire responsibility of choosing 
your wines. 



Q4 



WINES IN OENEBAL. 

(By James L. Johnston^ Esq.) 

In the economy of nature wine has always held a pro- 
minent position. Com^ and wine^ and oil^ represent the 
highest agricultural development of the vegetable world — 
the com and oil to nourish and sustain^ and the wine to 
invigorate, refresh, and solace life. — In considering the 
subject of diet, therefore, whether for health or sickness, 
so important an element cannot be ignored ; seeing that, 
while in health it contributes largely to the enjoyment of 
life, in sickness it is a powerful auxilliary to the Physician, 
more particularly under certain morbid conditions affecting 
both body and mind. In all ages, in wine-producing 
countries especially where it is best known and appreciated, 
wine, rationally used, has been regarded as a valuable 
means of promoting health, of prolonging life, and of 
adding to its enjoyment ; but the penalties which follow 
the ahuse of any of those gifts, provided and intended, 
by the Creator for the benefit of his creatures, as certainly 
follow its misuse. This requires no argument to demon- 
strate, it is within the knowledge of every thinking ob- 
server, nor does it furnish any reason for the disuse of 
wine, for there are few of the most valuable medicaments 
which are not poisonous if used without discretion. With 
these prefatory remarks I will proceed to consider briefly 
the constitution and varieties of wine, its natural and com- 
mercial alcoholic force, and its hygienic properties. 

Strictly defined, wine is the fermented juice of the 
grape. But this theoretical definition is not quite carried 
out in practice. When perfectly fermented, wine be- 
comes what is technically termed ^^ Arj'' meaning that 
the whole of its sugar has been converted into alcohol, 
within certain limits however, inasmuch as the production 
of alcohol, at a certain point, arrests the fermentation and 



# 

WINES IK GENXBAL. 65 

farther production of spirit, leaving a margin of uncon- 
verted sugar (where that constituent is in excess) to 
enhance the richness of the wine, as in the instance of the 
celebrated Sauteme known as Chateau D^ Yquem. For the 
same reason extraneous spirit added to the fermenting 
''must/* has the effect of arresting further action, and 
retaLoing the unconverted sugar as an element of richness 
in the liquid. This is the course followed, with recent 
modifications and exceptions however, in the manu- 
facture of the Port wine of commerce, and also of the red 
Tarragona wines of Spain intended to imitate and com- 
pete with Port in the English market. 

Some wines are only partially fermented, in consequence 
of the over-richness of the " must,** through the eUmina- 
tion of a considerable proportion of its watery constituent 
by natural or artificial means, as in the instance of the 
Essenz or Ausbruch wines of Hungary of which the Im- 
perial Tokay, a wine of wonderful richness, is the highest 
type. Others again are not fermented at all, but the 
grape juice is simply inspissated or concentrated by slow 
boiling or simmering, as in the Tent wine made at Bota 
in Spain, and used generally for communion purposes in 
the Anglican Church. Of course under such circumstances 
this is merely a syrup or conserve of grape juice, and does 
not contain a particle of spirit in its natural state ; but as 
it is customary to add from 20 to 30 per cent of spirit to 
it by way of preservative, it is put upon much the same 
footing as fermented wine, in respect of alcohol. 

Effervescing or sparkling wines are the last variety. In 
them the fermentative action is not only arrested but im- 
prisoned as it were, to form the " mousse,** as it is called, 
which is at once their peculiarity and their charm. 

Dry wines, whether stiU or sparkling, are preferable to 
all other kinds, from a medical point of view chiefly on 



66 WINBS tN QENBBAti. 

account of their greater freedom from the objectionable 
unconverted sugar and their more easy digestion^ in ad- 
dition to which, their quaKty is invariably higher, as being 
under no disguise. 

In almost every other respect the grand characteris- 
tics of wine are common to all, subject to certain modi- 
fications arising from climate or soil, from the latter of 
which especially some very important hygienic qualities 
are derived. 

Colour is a distinction of little importance to the pre- 
sent question ; it is obtained from the skin of the grape, 
when the bruised fruit is fermented in place of the ex- 
pressed juice, red or violet when the black grape is used, 
from the blue colouring matter of the skins, and brownish- 
yellow in the case of the white grape from the apothema, 
which becomes darker by exposure to the air. But in 
many cases colour is an artificial production, notably in 
the case of brown sherries, in which it is owing to an ad- 
mixture of boiled wine called vino de color; the normal 
colour of pure sherry, for example, is a pale greenish or 
brownish yellow, deepening with age. For these reasons 
pale sherries are to be preferred to golden, or brown in 
especial, as being purer. 

The natural strength of wine is within a limited range from 
18 to 30 per cent, proof spirit* (lO'S to 17'25 alcohol) which 
is rarely if ever exceeded. French Claret is a type of the 
lowest, and the wines of the Pyrenees Orientale and Spain 
generally, of the highest strength. 

The majority however occupy the middle place, and 
comprise Sautemes, Burgundies red and white, the wines 
of the Bhine, the Moselle and the Danube, the Italian 
Peniusula (except Marsala) and the Grrecian Archipelago, 

* Proof spirit is the ordinary potable spirit of commerce and is eqnivalent 
to nearly equal parts of alcohol and water. — See Alcohol table. 



WINES IN GENXBAL. 67 

which are all within 20 and 25 per cent, proof spirit (ITS 
to 14'5 alcohol.) These wines as a rule are brought to 
market in a nearly pure state^ or with such inconsiderable 
additions of spirit as to be of little consequence. 

It may be taken for f^anted that no sparkling or 
effervescing wines can ever exceed the strength of 24 per 
cent, proof spirit (13*5 alcohol) ; their real variety, apart 
from the different sorts of wine employed, consists in the 
different proportions of sugar added as " liqueur*^ in the 
course of manufacture, and which varies from the pure 
or '^ brut" wine up to 18 and 20 per cent., the general 
average in the English market is midway, about 10 per 
cent., although the demand for the ^'dry^' kinds is greatly 
on the increase. In prescribing these wines therefore 
the medical man is dealing with known forces as far as 
alcohol is concerned; but it is very different in respect of 
Port, Sherry, Madeira, and Marsala. 

The Port wine of commerce is never under 35 per cent, 
proof spirit (20 alcohol) the average being 38'5 up to 42 
proof spirit (22 to 24 alcohol) while Sherry^ Madeira, and 
Marsala, although commencing a trifle lower, or at about 3 1*5 
proof spirit (18 alcohol) advance almost if not quite as far. 

Thus a rich vintage Port wine at 42 per cent., the usual 
strength of high-class Port wine, must have had 33 per 
cent, of proof spirit, or J of its bulk of ordinary brandy 
added to bring it to that condition.^ 

The same may be said of the cheaper red Tarragona 
wines lately introduced, and which bid fair to supersede 
the real Port wines in hospital practice. In its pure 
state this is a generous wine of considerable natural body 
and strength, and likely, if its use were encouraged, to be- 
come a favourite and wholesome beverage with the million. 

* Three glasses of sucli winej therefore, represent about one glass of ordin^ 
ary Brandy. 

f2 



68 Wines li^ gsitebau 

Although Sherries and other white Spanish wines are 
largely fortified in general for the English market^ there 
are^ amongst the drier sorts^ Montilla^ Amontillado^ Man- 
zanilla^ and the lighter kinds termed Vino de pasto^ many 
of which would only be injured by being fortified, and are 
consequently — the higher classes in particular — usually 
exempt from that debasing operation. Some of these are 
unequalled for sanitary purposes, especially in dyspeptic 
cases where the bitter principle (in Amontillado not unlike 
that of an orange-pip) appears to act as a tonic. 

No wine has been so extensively imitated — ^the usueJ 
penalty of admitted excellence — as so-called Sherry; Ham- 
burg especially is facile princeps in manufacturing an article 
called Elbe Sherry largely recommended in certain quar- 
ters, composed principally of Elbe water and potato-spirit 
fiavoured in an ingenious manner with various extracts 
and ethers too numerous to mention, but which should be 
shunned as poison under whatever auspices it may present 
itself. There is scarcely a white wine vended which is not 
called Sherry and courts consumption under that popular 
and attractive pseudonym. 

It would be out of place in a work of this descrip- 
tion to show the difierent means by which the natural 
characteristics of wine are artificially heightened when 
weak, or supplied when altogether wanting — such as 
the elder flower on the Bhine and Moselle, the cha- 
momile in Spain and the black currant leaf and rasp- 
berry in France to give "bouquet," the elder and 
black- and bilberry to give colour in Portugal and Spain. 
These are harmless compared with the abominably per- 
nicious practice of " fortifying'* beyond what is necessary 
for purposes of preservation where potato or beet-spirit, 
or some such cheap and nasty production is the agent em« 
ployed. 



69 



SPANISH WINES. 

(By F. W. Cogens, Esq.) 

Of all those wines possessing distinct characteristics, 
and which impress the palate of the consumer in a marked 
degree, none is more prominent than that one of Spanish 
growth, known under the generic name of Sherry, and 
which is so called from being produced near the town of 
Jerez de la Frontera in Andalusia, around which cluster 
the oldest and most famous vineyards. 

Of late years since railway communication has opened 
up the interior of Spain to the seaboard, a great impulse 
has been given to viticulture around Seville, the Montilla 
district near Cordova, and other outlying localities ; the 
wines being light, genuine, and delicate, are in general 
favour as dinner beverages at moderate prices. 

The area producing the veritable Jerez has been some- 
what extended .since Dr. Gorman, in 1851, published his 
statistical tables of the annual yield which he gave as 
52,000 butts for the whole district. 

There is, probably, little doubt but that the famous 
"Methuen treaty,^^ while it secured a temporary monopoly 
for the wines of Spain and Portugal, induced a much 
more careful cultivation, and consequently a yield of 
superior wine ; so much so, that since then Sherry has 
become a household wine as much by force of quality 
as by fiscal favouritism. Of course the usual penalty of ex- 
cellence has to be paid, and Cape and Elbe Sherries have 
started into notoriety as cheap imitations, damaging the 
reputation of the pure produce of Jerez, in the estimation 
at least of the ill-informed. 

From old records still preserved amongst the archives 
at Jerez we find that so early as 1268 vineyards are named 
as existing contiguous to the " Cartuja monastery'^ on th© 



70 SPANISH WINES. 

banks of the Guadalete which flows past the Portal, or 
Port of Jerez, a short distance from the town itself. It is 
also stated that in the year 1483 "no English or Breton 
ships have arrived this yeasc in consequence of the war 
with the Biscayans/^ and in an old print of the time of 
the sack of Cadiz under Essex, men are seen carrying 
butts of wine slung by ropes suspended from their shoul- 
ders, to a boat on the beach, a vessel, apparently of 
English build, lying at anchor in the Bay, the casks are 
of precisely the same shape and character as those now in 
use. 

There is no doubt that prior to 1483 the wines of 
Spain were consumed and appreciated in England. In 
1419 William Horrold was placed in the pillory for 
counterfeiting and vending " olde and feble Spaynishe 
wyn for good and true Eomeney.^^ 

This same counterfeiting, for a long period fostered by 
the half duty charged upon Cape wines, has no doubt led 
many medical men into error as to the exact hygienic 
effects of Sherry. 

Judging from continental practice there are many mala- 
dies for which genuine and generous wine of the Sherry 
type is the only recognized and approved curative stimu- 
lant. 

A large quantity of really superior Sherry finds its 
way annually into consumption in England, in fact all the 
costly and rare growths are exported to this country. 

Domecq, Garvey, Gonzalez, Cosens, and others, devote 
themselves almost exclusively to the growing, rearing, 
and exportation of the produce of the oldest and best cul- 
tivated vineyards of the " termino of Jerez.^^ These wines 
can be procured in a perfectly genuine state, and in the 
highest perfection, through the estabhshed channels of 
supply — ^wine merchants of credit and position, 



SPANISH WINBS. 71 

Undoubtedly, good, sonnd, wholesome, young Sherry 
may always be procured at a moderate price ; but those 
who look for high character and rare excellence must bear 
n mind that great resources are necessary to enable the 
ahipper to breed fine wine ; much time, skill, and patience, 
as well as technical aptitude are absolutely necessary to 
secure a favourable result. Fine Sherry must, therefore, 
always remain more or less costly ; at the same time excel- 
lent wine may be procured at a moderate price, while 
" cheap and wholesome,^^ is only as a rule another name 
for dear because inferior. 

A teaspoonlul of water in a glass of ordinary Sherry, 
will render it grateful to the delicate digestion of most 
dyspeptics. 

The great rage for cheap wines since the introduction of 
Claret at a low duty, has undoubtedly stimulated the 
importation from the South of Spain of immature wines ; 
such, improperly fermented, carelessly prepared, and of 
inferior growths have disgusted many consumers; and 
the medical profession have noted their baneful efiects 
from a hygienic point of view. 

Ford says in his Handbook, speaking of Manzanilla^ 
''drink it ye dyspeptics,'^ but as there are wines and wines, 
so are there Manzanillas and Manzanillas, no wine requires 
more time and skill to grow and rear — ^and probably, in 
its immature state, is more injurious to a delicate sto- 
mach. 

A great deal of controversy has at times arisen as 
to whether the sprinkling of grapes with a very small 
quantity of gypsum is desirable or not; some assert 
that the lime in the sack, so feelingly alluded to by 
Falstaff, arose from this same sprinkling, especially as 
there is but little doubt that up to the early years of the 
18th century, the " Sberris, sack" of history was quite a new 



72 



OBEEE WINES. 



Wine exported from Spain almost a Must ; hence all the 
empirical recipes given in such books^ as the ^' Mysteries 
of Vintners'' (1699), &c. 

With reference to this sprinkling of gypsum practised 
since the days of Pliny its sole use is probably to coun- 
teract the effects of an over-production of albuminous 
matter dangerous to the wine during the years required 
to ripen and perfect it. 

Genius in the management of Sherry has its value un- 
doubtedly, but such must be supplemented by training. 

Condition, time for bottling, refining, all these require 
long and patient study ; the result being — from skill and 
good management, bottled sunshine — ^and from the con- 
trary, Daffy's Elixir! 

The Eed wines of Spain are annually gaining favour, 
they are ripe at an earlier age than the White and 
possess dietetic and hygienic properties peculiarly their 
own. At the Claret duty of Is. per gallon instead of 
2s. 6d. they would probably become the Red wines of the 
million. 



GEBEK WINES. 

(By J. L, Dernnariy Esq,) 



WINE. 


COLOUR. 


St. Elie 


White 


Thera 


White 


Santorin 


Red 


Kephesia 


Red 


■ 


White 


Patras 


White 


?> 


Red 


Como 


Re4 



PEOPEETT. 

Stimulant and exhilarating. 
Restorative and sapportiug. 
Tonio and restorative. 
Astringent and blood-making. 
Refreshing and gently stimulating. 



» 



t> 



Tonic and stimulant. 
Restoratiye and nutritive. 



OEBMAN WINBS. 73 

GERMAN WINES. 
(By M. A. Verhruzen^ Esq.) 

German Wines when obtained in their native purity 
contain medicinal and health-promoting qualities of great 
value. 

Foremost in medicinal respects we should consider the 
Moselle and Saar Wines ; they are the lightest and contain 
the smallest proportion of alcohol and Saccharine matter, 
and are consequently not only the most digestible, but, 
from the considerable proportion of vinous and apple 
acid they contain, are powerful promoters of digestion; 
they act most beneficially upon the secretive and 
excretive organs and are great purifiers of the blood ; 
whilst their stimulating power is of the mildest character, 
though most decidedly perceptible, as in the coldest 
weather they diffiise throughout the system a comforting 
sense of warmth. ' 

Dr. Franz Meurer, Eoyal Prussian Eesident Physician by 
Government appointment at Zell on Moselle, speaks in the 
highest terms of the curative and health-promoting quali- 
ties of these wines, as the result of his thirty years^ practi- 
cal experience. 

He recommends them as most valuable in cases of Bheu- 
matism. Gout, Dropsy, Stone, Gravel, Scorbutic and blood 
diseases generally. 

In certain cases those younger and lighter wines which 
possess a larger proportion of vinous and apple acid are 
most beneficial; whereas, in other cases, fuller bodied wines 
of greater age and possessing a larger degree of alcohol 
{always natural and not added to the wine) and a less 
proportion of acidity, of whatever nature it may be, are 
most beneficial. It is a noteworthy fact that the Moselle 
and Saar wines, whilst containing more vinous and apple 



74 GBEMAN WINES, 

acid than other wines^ not only do not sour the stomach 
like the sweet wines but actually counteract acidity of the 
stomach by promoting its healthy action. 

In cases where Ports, Sherries, Clarets and Rhine wines 
produce acidity the Moselle wines frequently counteract it 
from the extraordinary lightness of their character and the 
mild and gentle nature of their appetising power which 
gently stimulates without irritating. As daily beverages 
no wines are more suitable. The higher class of these 
wines are the most recommendable in dyspeptic cases. 

The principal growths are : 

Wiltinger, Zeltinger, Brauneberger, Piesporter, Josephs- 
hofer, Griinhauser, Scharzberger and Scharzhofberger, all 
white wines. 

These may be described as strongly diuretic and mildly 
laxative ; the higher class, containing the least amount of 
acidity, might be considered perhaps, sedative, as they are 
wonderfully composing and comforting. 

The Rhine and Palatinate wines, are of a stronger and 
more spirituous character than the Moselle and Saar wines, 
and consequently are more generous, yet amongst these 
there are many equally light and similarly refreshing. 

Excepting in the case of the lighter sorts, we should 
recommend greater moderation in the enjoyment of these 
than of the Moselle wines. 

Amongst the finest white growths are the following : 

Rheikqauer. Palatinate. 

Mabcobrukkeb, ^ight and very Deidesheimeb, (fine, fall, rather 

wholesome, diuretic). sweet wine). 

RiJDESHBiMEE, (full-bodied stout Forster, (soft delicate wine, 

wine, generous). delicious bouquet). 

JOHANNISBERGER CABINET, (fine RUPPERTSBEROER, (very fine 

aromatic wine). fnll-bodied wine, freqnently 

Stbinbbbger Cabinet, (very fine almost spicy), 
grand wine, full-bodied). 



GIBMAN WINBS. 75 

To say that any of the wines jast named are specially 
diuretic^ laxative^ sedative^ tonic^ &c., would be hardly to 
represent them correctly^ as they all possess these qualities 
more or less according to the quality, vintage, age, &c., 
&c., &c. 

There are twenty or more distinctions of quality to be had 
in each growth, containing more or less alcohol, saccharine, 
vinous acid, fixed acid, volatile acid, tannin, &c., &c., ac- 
cording to the nature of the host of circumstances which 
have operated upon the production of the wine from the 
commencement to the completion of the process, and 
which differ with eveiy season. 

When invalids require wines for certain cases and ob- 
jects they ought, after having consulted their medical 
adviser as to the nature or character of the wine that suits 
their case, to entrust their order to a wine merchant who 
understands his business and who is thoroughly conversant 
with the nature of the different wines constituting his 
stock. As a sedative he will give them a fine diy clean 
old neutral wine, no matter whether a Deidesheimer or 
Porster; as a diuretic he will give them a wine containing 
much vinous and fruit (apple) acid; as a stomachic he 
will select a wine having a considerable proportion of 
tannin, ^nd to the low spirited and down-cast he will give 
a fine wholesome dry and sparkling wine. 

Amongst the Red Wines of Germany we have several 
excellent sorts, suitable especially for convalescents and as 
family wines. Assmannshauser and especially OheringeU 
heimer from the Rhine and the fine Walporzheimer wines 
from the valley of the Ahr are fine stomachic winiss and 
great blood enrichers ; in ansBmic and other constitutions 
exhausted by debility, and also in persons of the phos- 
phatic diathesis these wines are recommended. 

Of the Sparkling wines of Germany, a pure Moselle 



76 HUNGAEIAN WINES. 

Without muscatel and other artificial flavouring is the 
most wholesome^ and in cases of weak digestion I should 
consider such a wine decidedly preferable to Champagne. 
I have seen wind on the stomach which had- almost con- 
stantly troubled the sufferer for three or four weeks to an 
alarming degree, entirely and effectually cured (so that 
during three weeks subsequently no recurrence whatever 
of the malady was perceived) simply by the use of a bottle 
of fine sparkling Moselle and i lb. dry, hard, short, bis- 
cuits taken about four hours and a half after luncheon; 
the stomach was gently brought into action by the wine 
and biscuits, the wind was expelled, the whole frame be- 
came warmed through, and a sense of extreme comfort 
ensued. By gently acting upon the stomach, and subse- 
quently upon the bowels, liver, and kidneys, the wine no 
doubt removed to a great extent the causes which produc- 
ed the wind and hence the relief experienced for so long. 

In conclusion I may observe, that when fatigued, especi- 
ally in hot weather, tKere is no such reviver as a glass of 
half soda water and half still Hock or fine Moselle : the 
eflFect is truly marvellous. 



HUNGARIAN WINES, 

(By Max Greger, Esq.J 

I can speak with the utmost confidence of the medicinal 
properties of the different kinds of Hungarian wines, 
not only from many years of personal experience in the 
districts where they are grown, but from reports that 
have been forwarded to me, in some hundreds of letters, 
by medical men who have prescribed these wines in their 
practice. 



HUNGABIAN WINES. 77 

In prescribing Hungarian wines^ it must be borne in 
mind that they are far richer in grape-sugar and conse- 
quently in alcohol than any of the French and G-erman 
wines, they therefore require a year or two longer to finish 
fermentation; that is to say to accomplish their maturity. 
It is therefore of the greatest importance to obtain these 
wines from such sources as may leave no doubt that they 
are, first, genuine^ and secondly, matured. 

Hungarian wines, generally speaking, are full in body, 
and whilst most other cheap light wines will produce a 
feeling of coldness, a glass of good Hungarian wine will 
produce a sensation of warmth all over the body. 

In anasmia and Chlorosis, and in exhaustion from loss 
of blood, especially by women after childbirth and in 
chronic nose-bleeding, great benefit is derived from the 
use of the Hungarian Red wine, Carlowitz, It is also 
administered with advantage in bilious disorders, slug- 
gish action of the liver and hasmorrhagic affections. 

Ofner Auslese is prescribed with excellent effect in 
diarrhoea, and if the case is urgent half an ounce of cinna- 
mon and an ounce of cane sugar are added to one bottle 
of wine, which, if well boiled together for half an hour and 
taken hot at bed time, will produce a very agreeable sooth- 
ing effect on the bowels. In Hungary, Ofher Auslese is 
the household remedy for diarrhoea, especially during 
cholera epidemics. 

Amongst the white wines of Hungary, Somlau should 
be selected as a substitute for the, so-called, dry sherries of 
Spain; (Edenburg and Ruster Ausbruch (dry), where the 
tartaric acid contained in all red wines seems objectiona- 
ble. 

The Ruster is especially valuable in convalescence fi'om 
exhausting diseases, sleeplessness and weak digestion, and 
in Hungary is considered a valuable sedative in neuralgia. 



78 HUNGAEIAN WINES, 

While the CEdenburgh finds especial favour with gouty 
persons, many of whom have been unable to touch any 
other kind of wine. It has distinctly diuretic properties 
attributed to it. 

The different kinds of Hungarian sparkling wines, are 
pleasingly exhilarating, leaving but little after depression 
even when they have been taken to excess. They, there- 
fore, constitute a satisfactory stimulant where exhilaration 
rather than alcoholic stimulation is desired. 

The finest Crown Tokay is an extraordinarily restorative 
wine, spreading warmth throughout the body to the tips 
of the toes and fingers, and is therefore of singular value 
to the old and feeble. It is, however, very rarely found 
of genuine quality, and when genuine is of great cost. 



ALCOHOL TABLE!. 



I solid diuolved, in mSSurSr 



The weight of Absolute Alcohol (spec grav. 793 at 60° Fht.) and of soli 

jiumtities of Spirituous Liquors. 



quant 



SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 



* The strength of Ardent 
Spirits is arbitrary, the strengths 

here given are *'* 

aversge. 



y. me sirenguis 
tne commercial 



his column 
shows the 

quantity by 
measure of 

each S^iritu 
ous Liquor 
which con- 
tains 1 OZ. 

AVOIRD. of| 
absolute Al 
cohol. 



» 

H CO 

Q « 



Troof Spirit. . 
Whisky . . . 
Brandy . . . 
Rum .... 
Gin (sweetened) 



CO 



fPort 

Lisbon (White) . . 
Buccellas .... 

Madeira 

Sherry (of commerce) 

„ Montilla and") 

Amontillado . y 

„ Natural . . 

Marsala 

Rousillon (Masdeu) . 
Burgrundy .... 
Chaolis (Montrachet) 

Claret 

Sauteme (Chateau 

d'Yquem . . . 
Hock (Johannisberg) 
Moselle .... 
Champagne and 

other effervescing 

or sparkling wines 
Hungarian Red(CsLr- 

lowitz). . . . 
White 

(Somlau) . . . 
„ Imperial ') 

Tokay (essenz) . J 
Constantia (Red and ") 

White) ... 5 
^Frontignac .... 



Cider 



CO 

o 
o» 

J1 

h 

-< 



'Ale, Burton, Bass, 845. 
„ „ 60s. 

Pale „ 60s. 

India (Gardner, 7 
X 54s.) . . .i 
f Scotch) 
Bottled^ (Edin.)) 
(Pale . 
"Eightpenny". . 
Family is, gallon. 
" Fourpenny" . . 



«* 
*) 



f) 



ff 



n 



If 



Stout, Dublin, (bottled) 
London . . . 



f« 



Porter, London 



Fluid OZ. 
a*a6 
a*6 

a'8 
3*a 



6'9 
9*0 

73 
6-8 

6-5 
6*8 
g*0 

75 
6*3 

i5*a 

ig-o 

16-3 

9*0 

13*4 
I5*a 

za*6 



14- 1 

I9'0 

9*0 



9*0 
9'0 



64-0 



12-5 
14*2 
19*0 

23*0 

19*0 

25-0 
227 
249 

25-4 



20*8 
21 '5 



I OZ. 

avoir, of 
Carbon 
is con- 
tained 
in fluid 
0x8. 



35'6 



43 
50 
5*o 
5'3 
_5'5 
10*2 
7-8 

II'2 
1 1*0 
lO'O 

lO'I 

7-8 
117 

8-5 
23-8 
27*0 

23-4 
7-8 

20*4 
233 

ii'S 

21*2 

28*3 

7-8 

7-8 
77 



One Imperial 
Pint contains 



40'0 



9*o 
13-0 

17*5 

28-0 

I3'i 
20-5 

22'2 
22*0 
23*0 



167 
^8^9 

26*6 



Extract. 

0x8. 
avoird. I 



Carbon. 

OSS. 

avoird 



•I 
•2 
•2 

1*1 

3*5 
0*9 

07 

i-o 

I'l 

I '5 
o'9 

17 
0-4 

0-5 

05 

3*5 

o*5 
04 

2*3 



0*5 
o'4 

3-5 

2-8 
3*4 



•8 
3*4 

2'0 

1*5 
•6 

2-4 

1*4 
1*1 

I '2 
I'l 



17 

1*5 



1*2 



4-6 
40 

40 
3-8 
3-6 



2*0 
2*6 

r8 
1-8 

2*0 

2*0 

2*6 
17 

2-4 
0-8 

07 

0-8 

2*6 
I'O 

0-8 
1-8 



0*9 

07 

2*6 

25 
2-4 



2*2 

1*5 
X'l 

7 
1-5 

I'O 

•9 

•9 
•8 



I'2 
I'l 



Per cen^ of 



Extract. 



'8 



•6 
1*2 
I'l 

4'5 



55 
16' I 

4*4 
3*5 
4-6 

5-6 

5'2 

4*4 
80 

I '8 

2'3 

a'5 
i6'i 

2'5 

2'0 
II'O 



2'5 

1-8 

16*1 

i5'0 
15-8 



Alcohol. 



37 



157 
9'6 

7'0 
3'o 

ii'4 

6'6 
5*4 
57 
53 



8'2 

6'9 



57'i5 

48*3 

47'i 
450 

39-8 



5:6 



22*0 
12*0 
l6'0 
22*0 
20'6 

l8'3 

14*5 

19*5 
20*6 

12*0 

I2'0 

ii'5 

12*0 

12*0 
I2'0 

13*5 

14*5 
12*0 

I0'3 

11-5 

i0'3 
52 



lO'I 

8-9 
6'6 

55 

8-0 

50 

57 
5*4 
52 

61 

5*9 



Equiva- 
lent of 
proof 
spirit. 



3: 



I 



100 
84-5 

82'4 
788 
69'6 

l8'"5 
21*0 

28'0 

385 

36-0 
320 

253 
340 

36'o 

21'0 
21'0 
20'0 

21'0 

21*0 
21*0 

23*6 



253 
21*0 

i8*o 

20*0 
18*0 



_9Li 
17*6 

166 

ii'5 
9*6 

14*0 

87 

9*9 

9'4 

___9'i_ 

10*6 

10*3 



20 Fluid OZ. =x Imperial pint (mea8ure)!i^zr avoird.==xpouna(weignt)! 



Li 



CHAPTER VI. 
PAT. 

Pat essential to healthy nutrition — Importance op 

DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN SoLID AND LiQUID PaT — BaNT- 
INGISM GETTING PaT AND GETTING ThIN — ANALYSIS OF 

Banting-diet, showing its errors and advantages. 

» 

Pat is so essential to the maintenance of healthy nutri- 
tion, that the quantity contained in the daily food cannot 
be reduced much below the proportions given in the 
" Essentials of a normal diet'' and in the diet tables, 
without great risk of damaging the health. 

When it is necessary for any special object to reduce 
the quantity of carbon taken in the aliments, this can 
more safely be done by diminishing the saccharine and 
amylaceous matters than the fats. 

The importance of fat in nutrition should be studiously 
borne in mind by those who construct diets for the poor, 
for public institutions, or for the treatment of obesity, 
diabetes, fatty degeneration, dyspepsia, and the like.* 



ON THE IMPORTANCE OP DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN SOLID 

AND LIQUID FATS.t 

The peculiar isomeric modifications of which stearin and 
palmitin are susceptible, as shown by Duffy, pointedly 
distinguish them from olein, which, so far as at present 

* See Appendix ** ON Bread Diet, and Ttphus Fbter," also Chapter 
VII. " ON Diet in Disease." 

t Abstract of an Article by the Author in the "Chemical News, Sept. 
4th, 1868." 



SOLID AND UQUID FATB. 81 

known, has not this susceptibility; a distinction which is 
supported by the different behaviour of aleic acid towards 
chlorine and bromine, from that of stearic or margaric 
adds (Lefort), and by the different action of bile upon 
stearic acid and upon oleic acid (Marcet). 

But I think we ought to be prepared to' learn, that solid 
and liquid fats differ in some important physiological pro- 
perties, by the first general fact concerning the constitu- 
tion of all natural fats — viz., that they are mixtures in 
varying proportions of at least four different bodies, of 
which the melting points so widely differ — stearin melting 
at 144° F., palmitin at 114'8° P., margarin (probably a 
compound of stearin and palmitin) at 116° F., while olein 
remains fluid at 32° F. 

That the different degrees of solidity of fats depend 
upon the proportions in which the solid ingredients are 
mixed with olein, that olein has a peculiar power of dis- 
solving the solid ingredients, and that the melting point 
of the mixture is thereby reduced, appear to me to be 
facts pointing in the same direction as the foregoing, es- 
pecially when we remember that the aflSnity of oleic add for 
oxygen is much greater than that of the other fatty acids. 

The fatty bodies obtained from warm-blooded animals 
are generally solid at ordinary temperatures, whilst those 
from fish and from cold-blooded animals [are liquid. And 
when we consider the high melting points of the solid fats 
as compared with the temperature of the body in warm- 
blooded animals, it is evident that the fat in them would 
be solid at the temperature of their blood, but for the 
mixture of olein, by which the melting point is reduced. 

Therefore the solidity or fluidity of the fat in living ani- 
mals is determined by the proportion of olein, which is able 
to be mixed with the stearin, palmitin, and margarin in 
each individual ; and we are forced to conclude either that 

G 



82 SOLID AND LIQUID FATB. 

it is of no importance whether the fats of the body during 
life are in a solid or liquid state^ or that it is important in 
what proportion the olein, stearin, etc., shall be combined. 

It has been already proved by experiments on the fatten- 
ing of cattle, that the solidity or fluidity of the fat in the 
body varies with the food — that cattle fattened upon linseed 
cake, for example, accumulate, in their adipose tissue, an 
oily material of unusual fluidity (Draper), and that the con- 
sistence of butter is dependent upon the kind of food given 
to the animals from which it is produced (Fownes). 

The fat in animals is particularly liable to accumulate 
immediately beneath the cutis, in the omentum, and 
around the kidneys ; and the fat found in the latter situa- 
tion, where it is subject to a more uniformly elevated tem- 
perature than in the integument, is well-known to be of a 
more suety character — ^that is to say, it contains a smaller 
proportion of olein, and has a higher melting point. 
These familiar facts point again to some importance, in the 
animal economy, attaching to the melting point of the fat 
and the consequent degree of fluidity in which it should 
exist during life. 

With regard to the fat of the integument — the principal 
deposit of adipose tissue in the body — it appears to me 
self-evident that the fluidity of this fat must vary with the 
temperature of the atmosphere in which the animal is 
placed ; to what extent this is the case, is, in my opinion, 
a most important subject for enquiry ; and although the 
experiments to determine the question are yet deficient, I 
hope soon to be able to supply them.* 

In conclusion, what I now suggest as a general proposi- 
tion, is this : — That, in all probability, the stability of the 
fats of the animal body in resisting too rapid oxidation is 

* This] statement was first published in 1868, and, up to the present time 
1872, the difficulties attendant upon the experiments have baffled those 
who have attempted to solve the question. 



ON GETTINQ FAT AND aXTTINQ THIN. 



83 



dependent upon the degree of solidity which they possess 
at the temperature of the living animal at any given time ; 
that alterations in external temperature may affect the 
solidity of the adipose tissue of the integument^ and^ con- 
sequently^ its power of resisting oxidation; and that^ 
therefore, in all probability, it is of great importance that 
the food of an animal shall contain a certain proportion of 
material capable of supplying the adipose tissue with solid 
fat : i.e. fat having a high melting point. 



ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN, 

On comparing the following analysis of Mr. Banting^s 
diet for getting thin with my tables of normal diets it will 
be seen that it yields less than half the normal quantity of 
Carbon, leaving the deficiency to be obtained from the fat 
already stored up in the system, by the consumption of 
which the obesity is removed. The fault consists in this 
reduction of Carbon being obtained by diminishing the 
Hydrocarbons (fats) of the food instead of only cutting off 
the Carbo-hydrates (Sugar and Starch). 

Mr. Banting's Diet, (approximate analysis). 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 


ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


avoird. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




14 


Meat, Poultry, 














Game, and Fish 


gas 


315 


I as 


«••• 


•98 




a 


Bread . 


•84 


•20 


•01 


•90 


•39 




a 


Vegetables (green) 


179 


•oa 


• ••« 


•15 


•07 




3 


Fruit . 


a*52 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•40 


•15 


l6 




Tea . 


i6*oo 


• ••• 


• ■•• 


• ••• 


•02 


14 




Wine (Claret) . 


13*00 


*<*« 


— 


— 


70 


30 


ai 


• 


43*40 


3*37 


i-a6 


1-45 


a-3i 








InPla 


Stic matter 


• • 

• • 


i*8a 




Tc 


>tal 


4-13 



o 2 



84 ON OBfTTING FAT AND OBTTING THIN. 

It has happened to me to have to do with a great num- 
ber of persons who have tried Bantingism^ and I do not 
hesitate to say that, up to the present tiiie,* Mr. Banting 
has done a great deal more good than harm. He has not 
brought forward a single new fact or new idea, but he has 
had the luck, by zealously advertising a striking case of 
the effects of a plan of treatment long familiar to every 
medical man who understood physiology, to convince the 
public of the immense influence on the animal organism of 
modifications in the quality of food — an influence in the 
importance of which they did not half believe when urged 
upon them in the form of medical advice. 

Mr. Banting candidly told his readers that he was 
ignorant of the physiology of food, but they did not care 
for this while determined to try his plan, and hence it is 
not to be wondered at that while many have been bene- 
fitted many have done themselves harm. But the harm 
that has been done at present is not very great and is 
nothing to compare with the harm that will come, if, 
frightened by some striking case in which Bantingism has 
nearly cost a man his life, the public rush away firom it as 
blindly as they rushed into it, and establish for a time 
such a popular prejudice against systems of diet, that a 
medical man shall not be able to institute those rational 
and scientific regulations of diet which are often more im- 
portant than any other means of treatment in the manage- 
ment of disease The plain and simple facts of the 

case are these. 1. A certain amount of fat in the system 
is one of the most essential elements of health. 2. The 
quantity required by diflerent individuals to maintain 
health differs. 3. The effects of a deficiency of the quan- 
tity actually required in any given organism are most 

. * Thii was first written in 1864 and I can safely repeat it now : 1872. 



Olff QSTTIlffQ FAT AND OETTINO THIN. 85 

disastrous^ the tissues of the body and the brain and 
neryes being at length disintegrated to supply the ele- 
ments of fat which they contain. 4. When there is a 
quantity of fat in the body in excess of that necessary to 
healthy it may be lessened with great and needed 
advantage provided it be done slowly and cautiously^— 
allowing the nutritive functions of the system to aooom- 
modate themselves gradually to the altered condition^— 
and most peremptorily stopping the loss of fat before it 
has amounted to a deficiency in the quantity necessary to 
healthy nutrition. Noihing is easier them to make a fat 
man thinner by altering his diet, but to do this safely and 
well is by no means devoid of difficulty, and in a large 
number of cases requires the greatest caution considera- 
tion and judgment on the part of those who rule the 
modifications in the diet of the patient. But there is no 
denying that, with such care and judgment, it can in 
most cases be done safely and advantageously. 

In the ABTiFioiAL FATTENING OF ANIMAI.S the indications to 
be complied with are very obvious; they are, first, to 
furnish an abundant supply of oleaginous material in the 
food; second, to prevent as far as possible waste by 
oxidation. 

The first indication is satisfied by the purposed employ- 
ment of oleaginous articles, as for instance, Unseed-cake, 
or by the selection among ordinary food substsmces, of 
those which, like Indian com, abound in oil. It is to be 
remarked that the increase of weight of an animal may 
take place in two ways : first, by adding fat to the deposit 
in the adipose tissues ; or second, by development of the 
muscles. It might perhaps be permissible to speak of the 
former as adipose fattening, the latter as albuminised 
fattening. According as it has been subjected to one or 
other of these processes, an animal will be very differently 



86 ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN. 

prepared for undergoing severe exercise. A horse fed 
with Indian com cannot maintain himself under severe 
exercise so well as if he had been fed on oats. In the 
former case his adipose tissues have been developed, in the 
latter his muscular. 

The second indication is met by resorting to every 
expedient which can restrain the action of the respired 
oxygen. A state of perfect quiescence is therefore to be 
observed. Muscular movement of every kind increases 
the activity of respiration. On the contrary, rest dimin- 
ishes it. If in addition to this state of quiet or rest, sleep 
likewise be indulged in, the object is still more perfectly 
attained ; and if a high temperature be also resorted to, 
since this checks the oxidation needful for maintaining 
the system at its due temperature, this further diminishes 
the waste of fat. 

Under such circumstances, where everything is done to 
give a supply of fat, and everything to prevent its con- 
sumption, it may be caused to accumulate in the tissues 
to an extraordinary amount. But this very soon inter- 
feres with the action of the liver. — See Draper's PhysioU 
ogy,* pp. 251, 252. 

* Further informatioii regarding fsit, its imporfcance in the organism, its 
relation to Disease, and the means of accumulating fat, will be found in my 
works **0N Tuberculosis" and "on the True First Stage of Oon- 

9UMPTI0N," 



CHAPTER VII. 
ON SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE.* 

On the Diet of Sickness — Principles upon which to 
arrange the diet of disbase — rules for carry- 
ING OUT THESE Principles — Examples of Diets for 
Consumption, and for Diabetes. 

The subject which I have chosen for to-day's lecture is 
one upon which it would be very easy to write a large 
book, but which is very difficult to treat in a short lecture. 
I must content myself, therefore, with condensing what 
I have to say into a few statements of opinion, avoiding 
all attempts at discussion, and if I appear to deliver my 
views dogmatically, you will, I hope, understand that it 
is not because I feel at all inclined to dogmatise, but 
because I am pressed by the extent of the subject, and the 
narrow limits of our time. 

In my " Manual of Diet and Regimen^'t I have given 
" the Essentials of a Normal Diet'' for health. The ques- 
tion now is, how ought these to be modified in disease ? 
You will observe that these " Essentials of a Normal 
Diet" provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition in 
a " healthy adult man of average stature taking moderate 
exercise," and, for simplicity's sake, it will be best to make 
all our remarks apply to this '^ adult man of average sta- 
ture" under altered circumstances. 

The first and leading principle of diet in disease is, to 
provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition, under 

* Substance of a lecture delivered by the Author at the Royal Hospital 
for Diseases of the Chest, in 1865. 
t Now embodied in this work. 



88 ON BOMB PBINCIPLES OF DIST Hf DISEASE. 

the peculiar alterations of circumstances attendant upon 
disease. In other words^ the diet of disease should be as 
nearly that of health as the altered conditions of the nutri- 
tive functions^ and the altered conditions of the patient's 
life will allow ; the grand object being to keep up healthy 
nutrition of the whole organism. 

The true appreciation of this first principle^ in its various 
bearings^ will save us from running into either of those 
extremes which at different times have disfigured medical 
practice. We shall not be led to starve our patients upon 
water.gruel, when they are craving for natural food : or 
to stuff them with beef-steaks and porter, when every 
instinct of their nature rebels against it. In fact, you 
may take it as a very safe rule, that it is better cautiously 
to supply a patient with the kind and quantity of food 
that his stomach calls for, than to deny it to him without 
an unquestionably good reason for so doing. 

This may seem to you very much like letting a patient 
eat and drink what he pleases. But that is not at all 
what I intend to recommend. All I mean is this, and I 
wish particularly to impress it, that if we intend to inter- 
fere in the subject of diet, we must take care that we 
thoroughly understand what we are about ; (see p. 5) and 
in order to do this it is necessary to keep well up in the 
following subjects : — 

1. The physiology of healthy nutrition. 

2. The composition of food, and the essentials of a 

normal diet. 

3. The physiology of disease. 

If we keep these matters well before the mind, and at 
the same time keep our wits about us in watching the 
case under treatment, it is surprising what an immense 
deal of good may be done by interfering with the diet ; 
but not otherwise. 



ON 80MB PBINCIPLS8 07 DIET IN DlfiBASB. 89 

« 

We start, then, with this as our first principle, never to 
be lost sight of — ^that healthy nutrition is to be main- 
tained, if possible, under all circumstances. And we 
assume that to do this in a ^^ healthy adult man of average 
stature taking moderate exercise^^ the essentials of a nor- 
mal diet, must be supplied. 

It must be borne in mind that the proportions and 
quantities of the different elements of this normal diet are 
furranged to meet the requirements of the different func- 
tions of the organism when in a healthy state of activity ; 
and it therefore follows, that if the activity of any of these 
functions is altered, the requirements will bo altered : and 
hence, the second general principle is this : — To alter the 
quantities and proportions of the elements of a normal 
diet to correspond with any alterations in the conditions 
of life. Thus, when a man is overtaken by sickness, and 
confined to his room or bed, the adult man taking moder- 
ate exercise becomes an adult man taking no exercise ; 
and the ingredients of his diet which were proportioned 
to his moderate exercise must now be proportioned to his 
no exercise ; and other alterations must be made in like 
manner, to correspond with other altered circumstances, 
in addition to any that may be specially required by the 
nature of his disease. 

But I must remind you that, even when a man is con- 
fined to his bed, and precluded &om taking any kind of 
exercise, he is still necessarily undergoing a considerable 
amount of muscular exertion, which must be provided 
for in his diet. For example, so long as life remains, 
such all-important muscles as those of respiration, and the 
heart itself, continue to act, and to require that their 
healthy nutrition shall be provided for by a supply of 
plastic materials in the food.* 

• See "Food, Heat, and Motion." 



90 ON SOME PBINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

We come next to the long list of alterations of function 
which may be involved in the term " Sickness." And the 
third principle is — ^To alter the forms, quantities, and 
proportions of the elements of a normal diet, to meet the 
altered relations in the activity and condition of organs 
consequent upon disease. It is evident that, in order to 
carry out our first principle of maintaining healthy nutri- 
tion under all circumstances, it may be necessary, under 
some conditions, to reduce the quantity of every element 
of diet ; and also, under some circumstances, to alter the 
proportions of the different elements. This we see demon- 
strated in some of the lower animals by the phenomena 
of hybernation. When an animal gives itself up to its 
winter sleep, every vital function is reduced to its lowest 
degree of activity; and the animal is able to maintain 
healthy nutrition for a long period without taking any 
food at all ; but as respiration has to be kept up more 
actively than the rest of the functions, a special store 
of carbon for this purpose is laid up beforehand in the 
body. 

Now, supposing a man to suffer from any state of dis- 
ease which should place him in the position, as regards his 
functions, of an animal during hybernation, it is clear 
that, while his whole diet must be reduced to a very low 
scale, the heat-giving elements must be supplied in quan- 
tities out of the normal proportions as compared with 
the rest ; because no supply of carbon is stored up in pre- 
paration for his illness, as it is in the hybemating animal 
in preparation for its sleep. 

We see conditions, in many respects similar to these 
in some stages of fevers, in which absorption, nutrition, 
and every vital function is at its lowest point consistent 
with life, respiration being the only one sufficiently active 
to call for any considerable supply of food. But here, of 



ON SOME PBINCIFLBS OF DIET IN DISEASE. 91 

oouTse^ we must not lose sight of an element in the case 
not present in hybernation — ^viz., the existence of a poison^ 
which by some means, natm-al or artificial, has to be eli- 
minated or destroyed, and which may be keeping some 
functions in activity, the requirements of which must be 
met. The precision with which we are able to do this 
in any given case, will depend upon the correctness of our 
knowledge of the nature of the poison, and of the organs 
concerned in the restorative process. Here, no doubt, 
we are often obliged to act in the dark, and to supply 
many ingredients which may not be needed, in the hope 
of famishing among them that which is required, but 
which our ignorance prevents us from identifying. And 
we had fsir better, whenever our knowledge is at fault, 
act in this safe manner and supply much that may be 
useless rather than run the risk of witholding that which 
may be essential to life. But, in the majority of cases, 
our knowledge will be suJBScient for the emergency, if we 
keep in mind the general principles of action. 

The fourth principle is this : — ^To obtain rest for every 
organ while it is suffering under active disease, by remov- 
ing from the diet such elements as increase its functions. 
These are conditions which it is not always easy to fulfil 
without deviating from our first principle. For example 
— ^in the case of diseased kidney — the healthy nutrition 
of this organ requires a supply of albuminoid materials, 
while its function is increased by any surplus of these 
materials in the organism; and when its function is 
interrupted by disease, a proportion of albuminoids in 
the diet, necessary to the healthy nutrition of the organ- 
ism generally, will be tantamount to an excess as regards 
the function of the kidney, and the accumulation of re- 
tained excretory matters will press injuriously upon the 
affected organ. In such a case other medical aids than 



92 ON SOME PBINOIPLBS OF DIST IN DISBA8E. 

diet must be brought to bear ; and while the albuminoids 
in the food are reduced as low as is consistent with 
healthy nutrition^ some auxiliary organs which are not 
damaged must be stimulated for the time^ to save the 
diseased part from undue pressure upon its functions. 

A simpler, but still important principle, may be stated 
as the fifth, viz. : — In all alterations of diet, to avoid any 
unnecessary reduction in the number and variety of the 
forms in which food is allowed to be taken. This becomes 
especially necessary to be borne in mind when dieting the 
dyspeptic, who are often still engaged in the active avoca- 
tions of business and of society while under medical treat- 
ment. To treat such cases by cutting off from the daily 
bill of fare first one article and then another, till the food 
consists of only two or three permitted forms, is to des- 
troy the appetite and the digestive powers by monotony 
of diet, and to depress the spirits of the patient by a cour 
stant series of petty denials. This plan of dieting can 
only be regarded as the resource of ignorance ; because an 
enUghtened view of the case will discover some particular 
defect in the Amotion of digestion or assimilation which 
will at once indicate the form or element of the food which 
is to be avoided ; and thus it will be only necessary to 
cut off those articles which specially represent this ele^ 
ment, or simply to alter the forms in which they are pre- 
sented to the stomach. (See p. 4.) 

The sixth principle is also of great importance, viz. :— ^ 
When it is necessary to remove from the food any of the 
essentials of a normal diet, to aim at selecting that which 
will answer the desired end with least danger to the nutri- 
tion of the vital organs. For example, if it is necessary 
for any special purpose to diminish the heat-giving ele- 
ments of the diet, it is safer to remove the carbo-hydrates 
than the hydro-carbons, because the latter not only supply 



ON SOKE PBINCIPLBB OF DIBT IN DIBSA8X. 93 

cftrbon for the evolution of animal heat^ but are essential 
to the nutrition of the nervous system^ and of the albu* 
minoid tissues generally. (See Fat^ Chapter YI). 

The seventh and last principle which I shall give in 
this Lecture is of very general application :— When it is 
desired to inerease the normal nutrition of a tissue or 
organ^ we must not only supply it freely with the special 
materials requisite for its development^ growth^ and repair^ 
but at the same time call upon it for the performance of 
its normal functions — over-fed idleness insures morbid 
nutrition^ not healthy life. 

In the next place I will give you a few Rules which may 
assist you in carrying out these general principles — 

Rule 1. — ^When the power of appropriating any essen- 
tial ingredient of a normal diet is lost to the organism^ 
the lost function must be substituted by some artificial 
process^ or the ingredient in question must be withdrawn 
from, the diet till the normal Amotion is restored. In 
obedience to this rule you see me at this hospital adminis- 
ter pancreatic emulsions of fat* to patients^ who have lost 
the power of assimilating fat without this artificial assist- 
ance^ while I adopt all practicable means of restoring the 
normal function.t 

Rule 2. — Is inseparable from the first, and it is this : — 
No essential of a normal diet must be withdrawn without 
an attempt being made either to supply to the organism 
in some other way the ingredient of which it is deprived, 
or to suspend those functions which call for a supply of 
this ingredient. Thus, to take a simple illustration : — 
Suppose the power of digesting meat to be lost through 
a deficient secretion of gastric juice, meat must be with- 
drawn from the diet till the lost function is restored, 

* See appendix for mode of preparing *' Fanoreatic emulsion." 
t See Diete for Oonaumption. 



94 ON SOMB PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

or else an artifical digestive fluid must be introduced; 
or if it is impossible by these means to maintain the di- 
gestion of meat, the physiological ingredients of meat 
must be supplied in the form of some albuminoid solu- 
tion ; or, finally, if this cannot be done, then those func- 
tions which principally waste the albuminoid tissues of 
the body must be placed as far as possible in a state of 
rest, muscular action must be suspended until the func- 
tion is restored. 

Eule 3. — If an undue waste of any elements of normal 
nutrition is found to be going on in the organism, and the 
means remain of appropriating those elements from the 
food, they must be supplied in the food in quantities as 
much in excess of those proper to the normal diet of 
health as will be sufficient to supply the waste, until it is 
stopped. This also may be illustrated by a very simple 
example. In Bright's disease of the kidney there is no 
loss of the power to appropriate the albuminoids from the 
food, whereas a constant loss of albumen is going on 
through the kidneys, which must be met by proportionate 
increase of the albuminoids in the diet. But in following 
this rule, in this particular case, it will be necessary to 
observe the precautions which I mentioned when speaking 
of the fourth general principle. 

Eule 4. — When through any defect in the organism, 
the elements of a normal diet are lost to nutrition if pre- 
sented in the usual forms, those forms must be changed ; 
but care must be taken that in the altered form all the 
essential elements of a normal diet are supplied in their 
proper quantities and proportions. Nothing can illustrate 
this better than the use of milk as a substitute for solid or 
mixed foods in diarrhoea or sickness. 

Rule 5. — Has to deal with more complicated difficulties. 
If such a defect exists in the organism that some of the 



ON SOME PRINCIPLIB OF DIET IN DISEASE. 95 

essentials of a normal diet are misappropriated^ so that 
the organism is deprived of one or more of the normal 
elements of nutrition^ and at the same time a disease is 
constituted out of the misappropriated food^ then we have 
a doable duty in interfering with the diet. Firsts the 
source of the disease must be stopped by withdrawing 
that part of the diet out of which it is constituted; 
and^ secondly^ the elements of nutrition thus removed 
must be supplied by some other means or in some other 
form. 

Thus^ in Diabetes the saccharine and amylaceous ele- 
ments of the diet are misappropriated ; they do not serve 
their normal function of supplying carbon for the evolu- 
tion of heat^ and by passing off through the kidneys they 
constitute an exhausting disease. It is necessary^ there- 
fore^ to stop the source of this disease by cutting off the 
saccharine and amylaceous ingredients of tha diet till nor- 
mal nutrition is restored. But^ in the meantime^ as car- 
bon must be obtained by some means^ it is taken from the 
fat stored up in the body so long as that lasts^ and when 
it is gone^ from the albuminoid tissues themselves^ till the 
whole organism is disintegrated ; unless at the same time 
that we cut off the starch and sugar^ we increase the 
quantity of fat supplied in the food as much in excess of 
the proportion proper to a normal diet as shall fully sup- 
ply the demand.* 

The modern dietetic treatment of Diabetes may be 
taken as a good example of the way in which increased 
knowledge of the nature of disease and of the physiology 
of food enables us to act under what I have called the fifth 
principle of diet, viz., to avoid any unnecessary reduction 
in the number and variety of the forms in which food can 

* See Diet for Diabetes. 



96 OK SOME FRIKCIPLES OF DIET IK DISEASE. 

be taken. In former days the poor parched diabetic was 
forbidden to drink water lest he should increase his flow 
of nrine ; now we are able to let him quench his thirst as 
much as he pleases^ so that he takes nothing which con- 
tains starc^ or sugar ; and again^ by preparing his articles 
of food in i§uch a manner as to exclude the injurious in- 
gredients^ and by selecting those which are known to con- 
tain them in the smallest quantities^ or not to contain 
them at all^ we are able to present the diabetic with a 
fairly tempting and varied diet^ so that he is able to keep 
to it for months and years with comparatively little diffi- 
culty. (See p. 4.) 

In conclusion I shall venture to give you a eixih. rule, 
which I call the " golden rule/^ as it relates to the carry- 
ing out of the first of our principles throughout all the 
difficulties involved in the rest. The ^' golden rule" is 
this : — Never let a patient become weak through a de- 
fective diet if you can prevent it by any possible con- 
trivance ; and if a patient has unavoidably become weak, 
never let him remain so, through any defect of diet, one 
hour longer than it is absolutely impossible to prevent. 

Other principles and rules I must reserve for fature 
Lectures, when treating of special cases as they come be- 
fore us. But I hope that you will find, when you come to 
put them to the test of practice, that the few which I have 
given you to-day will serve both your patients and your- 
selves many a good turn, if you will only bear in mind 
what I have endeavoured to impress; that in order to 
carry them out satisfactorily you must keep up your 
knowledge of your profession generally, and especially of 
the various subjects which I have enumerated, as essential 
to a proper understanding of the alterations of diet re- 
quired in disease. 



97 



DIETS POJft CONSUMPTION. 

In these Diets for Consumption it is assumed that no 
fat is assimilated except that artificially pancreatised. 

In Table I. The required amount of carbon is supplied 
by an excess of carbo-hydrates. 

In Table II. The required amount of carbon is sup- 
plied by an excess of albuminoids. 

In Table III. The amount of carbon is kept low, be- 
cause it is only intended as a temporary diet 
to be used during periods of rest in a warm 
room. The arrowroot and some of the fat of 
the milk are pancreatised by mixture with the 
" pancreatic emulsion/^* 



* See Appendix for mode of preparing " Pancreatic Emnliion." 



H 



98 




OhOOOOMmO 



m 



> 
O 

< 

1 



n 
< 

m 

o 

H 
D 

CO 

O 
U 

O 

fa 

CO 



bbb • •© b b • • 



I 






M O C4Q0 Q O O Q 

M -^00 00 ^ t>» m o 
hMOOmOMm 



b 



e« 


?Q 


m 
m 


3; 


M 


b 


H 





IN. 

O 

H 



•s 

•a 



* looo aS 00 o & 

^ H H O H ^ 



IN. 



iS 



mo 



8 



vo o 

• • • 

o o o 



« 



cJ 

I 



»«* .888 . . 



m O H O jn CO 

MHO H O O 



O 



lOOOOdCIMtO *c« 



CO 



i 

I 






I 



e.2 

o^ 
•STg 

Is 

c c 

o n cu (^ S I-) fa fa Oi 



a 

•-4 OB 

« o 9 
o^fa 

«^ O 00 

rSfa O 

o bos 

3 Sire's* 



8«.oSPsSS 





/**-^ 


• 


• • 




§ 




cu 


• 


« -: 




3B 




^1 


• 


s^ 






CO 


Fats 


•J 


«? 


•< 

s 


OS 


H 


o$ 




-Sts 




Q 



a 

I 

O 

0) 

01 

'a 



O 

H 



n 



o> 



•«3 .M 



99 



O 

•t 

s 

I 



Q " 

O tg 

5 ^ 

3 •'5 



»-] 

n 
o 

H 

CO 

O 

u 
o 

b 

CO 
CI) 



o 
*" o 



I from 

Non- 
Nitrogenoas. 


«o 8>(no H t>.o«t>.oqo §• 

»nooc«»nt>»H«w«ot«* 

• ••• • • • • • •• •_ 

OOOOONmOOhO 


in 

• 

00 


• 
• 


• 
• 


w' ■'.- -■ - — ■■ 

|l -bbbbbb-bb'' 

S5 I 


M 


• 
• 


• 
• 


Total 
Carbon. 


« O v>\p «»>OOOQ'*QQ 

»noo rs.m« o»m« "^n o t>. 
• •••••••••_•• 

hOOOhOcImmOhO 


• 
M 


O 

M 

• 

H 


• 

M 
H 


• 

1 
1 


H M ^M O O 


• 

H 

H 


• 
• 


• 
• 


• 


d o v>«o O O 9 M Q 
Hfomio.foc:! .Oh .q 

1^00 ON O O t^O 

• ••• ••• ••• •• 

ooo oo oo H 


lO 

M 

vo 

• 


• 

• 


• 

• 


• 

1 

0* 


00 <o m m ^ ^ CO oo 

HHM MOO hO 


1 

• 


• 
• 


• 
• 


o 


00 <0 CO M C«) ^lO CO d lO * M 

• 


9 


• 
• 


• 
• 


• 

g 

i 
1 




■ 
• 

• 

• 

03 

§ 


1 • ^ ' 




H 

00 


• 


...a....... J 


? -11 

• 1 — i ■ §1 II 

"^ S u S^ P (« 4^ Si^ Si P ^ 



h2 



100 



s 



1 



(4 

I' 

O 

•-^ 

H 

CO 

O 

u 

O 

09 





^■MMi 


^^■M 






s 










o 
g| 


O 


M 


IN. 


1 


BS5f 


f«) 


M 


b 


<b 


J s 










§ • 










•S s* 










5. 1 


« 


H 


• 


1 


f 


M 


b 




VI 


- Z 










-d 


o 


o 


o 


o 


Tota 
Carbo 


i 


• 


• 

o 


M 
IN. 












« 










a 

1 






• 

• 


H 


. ^ 










• 


o 

CO 


1 


§. 


o 

R 


(i< 


tn 


b 


f 
H 




• 


8 


8 




g 


at 


OH 


ro 




C^ 


JSj 


• 


O 


• 


V 


a« 










• 


O 


<o 


M 


00 


o 


M 






M 




• 




• 


• 


. 


• 




• 


• 










» 


1 


• 




-H 


• 


^ 










; 


• 




2 


• 


^ 


o 




S 




« 


•« 




M 


09 


•^ 


• p4 






Jt 







4i« 




< 


. 


?. 


1 


s 


O 

H 


• 


J4 


g 


s 




* 


S 


< 


0U 





> 

s 



a 



S 



00 
•4 






li' 


2 


































=^^ 


as 








1 
























^ 


.^h 


ilsl S,S §igl€ 


+ 


















t 














H?.? 1? ::;;? 


^ 










































ffi^ 


II 


^^SS 5= §iKll 


s 


- 




u-s 


-ooo «0 --00- 








Ti 


h 


:::??? ::::: 


^ 






M g si 






















(-^■^ 


si 


Ur^ n -115,1 


c 


















Q J 


























1 


Hat s? ;::!?• 


f 




























n 


fi 


-""- •" >'"" 


% 






■» 












1 




• ■ ■ -8 ■ •* 




n ■ 




1 






lj 


1 


1 
J 

£ 


1 


Ilslsssisssis 


1 


i 
i 










"^ 








III 

Is I 

-1 sl| 

S£S"| 

IfJI 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DISINFECTION. 

Media bt which the Catching Diseases abb Communi- 
cated—Means POE Preventing Infection and Con- 
tagion — DiKECTIONS fob THE SiCK BoOM AND ATTEND- 
ANTS — PbECAUTIONS TO BE USED BT DOCTOES — ^MoDB OP 

Cleansing Apabtments apteb Illness — Pbopeb Me- 
thods OP using Chlobidb op Limb, Cabbolic Acid, 
CoNDY^s Fluid and Chlobalum. 

Infectious and Contagious (catching) diseases — Scarlet 
fever, Small-pox, Measles, Typhus, Chichen-pox Relapsing 
fever. Puerperal fever. Whooping-cough, Mumps, Ac. — 
are communicated principally by the following media : — 

1. The breath. 

2. The secretions and excretions, 
a. The saliva. 

6. The perspiration. 

c. The urine. 

d. The evacuations from, the bowels. 
6. The sputa. 

3. The skin of the body ; especially the dead peeling 
skin and the powdered skin which adhere to clothing and 
are wafted about in the air. 

4. The body-clothes. 

5. The bed-clothing. 

6. Discharges from eruptions, abscesses, wounds, &c. 

7. The hair. 

8. The walls, floors, and furniture of apartments. 

It is probable that no infectious or contagious disease 



DiBiNnonoN. 103 

would spread if all these media were promptly disinfected. 
The difficulty Ues^ not in disinfecting any one of them 
when it is specially submitted to us^ for that is easily 
done^ but in keeping up such a rigorous system of disin- 
fection around the sick person^ that none of these media 
shall escape disinfection ; for common sense tells us that 
if only one escapes the protection from infection may be 
lost. It is evident that the disinfection of the secretions 
and excretions must be performed as they leave the body^ 
so that the air may not be infected during their passage. 
For this reason the disinfectants put into spitting pots^ 
urinals and bed pans should be Volatile^ Uke Chlorine 
and CarboUc Acid^ so that an atmosphere of the disinfect- 
ant may rise fit)m the utensils while they are being 
used. I therefore^ advise for these purposes Chloride of 
Lime and water, or Carbolic Acid, and they have the ad- 
vantage of continuing to give off their disinfecting princi- 
ples after the contents of the utensils are thrown down the 
drains. 

For most other purposes Cond/s fluid will suffice ; it is 
clean, free from offensive taste or smell and not poisonous. 
It is not volatile but it disinfects whatever comes in con- 
tact with it. The air of a room therefore may be disin- 
fected to a great extent by freely dispersing Condy's fluid 
with a spray producer. Clothes can be disinfected by 
being soaked in it. The skin can be disinfected by being 
washed with it. Sponges can be disinfected by being soak- 
ed in it, but sponges are dangerous spreaders of infection 
and it is much better to use pieces of cloth, which can be 
burnt, and in cleansing wounds to irrigate them with a 
syringe. Linen and other washing materials can be dis- 
infected by boiling, but they should be previously put into 
Condy's fluid or diluted Carbolic Acid directly they are 
done with and kept in it for about two hours, otherwise 



104 DisiNFEcrriON. 

they may spread infection before they are boiled. For all 
these purposes Carbolic Acid is most efficient but its smell 
is objectionable. 

Whatever is not susceptible of boiling but will bear 
baking can be disinfected by being submitted to a tem- 
perature of from 212° to 250° in an oven, and for greater 
safety a little Carbolic Acid should be put into thjB oven at 
the time. 

1. When a catching disease occurs in a house the first 
thing to be done is — to select a room for the patient as 
much isolated as possible from the rest of the house; a 
room through which no one has to pass and by which 
there are as few passers as possible — the top of the house 
is best as a rule. The room should have a window open- 
ing directly into the fresh air and an open chimney and 
fire-place, and it should be supplied with not less than 
1000 cubic feet of fresh air every hour for each occupant 
whether patient or attendant. (See Chapter II). When- 
ever practicable a second room should be set apart near 
the patient^s room for the attendants to cook and take 
meals in and to sleep in when off duty. 

2. The second thing to be done is — to remove from the 
room or rooms selected every thing that cannot be washed, 
boiled, baked or burnt, and then to hang over the outside 
of each doorway a curtain kept constantly wet with 
Condy^s fiuid. 

\ The third thing is— to decide who is to attend upon 
the patient. There should always be two persons and no 
more. They should cover their hair with washing caps, 
dress in washing clothes, and not associate with the rest 
of the household or with any other persons. They should 
each take at least six hours sleep out of the 24. They 
should each walk out in the fresh air 1 hour per day. 



DIBINTlOnON, 105 

They ahoold wash their hands and faces with Condy's fluid 
and water when they leave the patient's room. They 
should avoid inhaling the breath or exhalations of the 
patient and they should neither eat nor drink in the sick- 
room. 

4. The fourth thing is — to place in a comer of the pa- 
tient's room a large glazed pan containing water and 
Carbolic Acid or Condy's fluid. Into this pan everything 
that can be washed or boiled should be put^ directly it is 
done with^ before it leaves the sick-room. The pan should 
be emptied night and morning or oflener. 

5. The patient should be sponged all over with warm 
water and Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap twice a day (ex- 
cept during periods in which it may be thought unadvis- 
able by the doctor) and if the skin is peeling or powdery 
it should be anointed after the sponging with olive oil 
containing a little Carbolic Acid (about 10 per cent.) 

6. Chloride of Lime and Water or Carbolic Acid should 
be put into every utensil before it is used by the patient 
and after being used the contents should be immediately 
thrown down the drain together with some fresh Chloride 
of Lime. 

7. The patient's teeth and mouth should be washed 
with Condy's fluid, or Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap and 
water several times a day and when there is any discharge 
from the nose or other passages these should be cleansed 
in the same way. When the discharges from the body 
are foetid Savory and Moore's Carbolic Acid vaporiser 
should be burnt in the room. 

8. It must constantly be borne in mind that no, amount 
or kind of disinfection will take the place of fresh air, and 
therefore the sick-room must be kept freely ventilated, 
carefully avoiding draughts. (See Chapter II.) Gas 
should not be burnt in a sick-room. 



106 DISINFECTION. 

9. The doctor should not communicate with any other 
members of the household after he leaves the sick-room 
and he should always be provided with a basin of water^ 
Calvert^B Carbolic Acid Soap^ a nail brush and a clean 
towel^ with which to wash his hands on leaving. 

Let it he especially remembered that the unain poirUs are 
the prompt disinfection of the infecting m^dia^ enumerated 
in the beginning of this Chapter, and the free circulation of 
fresh air. 

Afber the acute specific disease has run its course^ in- 
fection may last as long as there are any unhealthy dis- 
charges left by the disease^ as long as there is any peeling 
or powdering of skin, shedding of hair and the like j and 
precautions are needed for disinfecting these means of 
spreading disease so long as they exist. 

No doctor who has been in attendance upon Erysipelas, 
Scarlet fever. Puerperal fever, Typhus, Gangrene, Pya9- 
mia, or who has been engaged in a post-mortem examina- 
tion should enter a lying-in-room until he has subjected 
himself to effectual purification and disinfection ; and it is 
a safe rule, under all circumstances, for a doctor not to 
touch a lying-in patient until he has washed his hands 
with some disinfectant. 

The difficulties of carrying out this rule are very great 
in the hurry of practice, but every doctor engaged in 
Obstetric practice is bound to provide for doing so. And 
he should never go upon his rounds without some disin- 
fectant with him to mix with the water in which he 
washes his hands in case of unexpected need. 

To facilitate this important hygienic precaution I have 
induced Messrs Maw, the well-known instrument makers, 
of 11 Aldersgate Street, and Messrs Calvert the cele- 
brated manufacturers of Carbolic Acid, to provide a little 
metal case containing a piece of strong Carbolic Acid 



DIBINTBCnON. 107 

Soap^ a nail-brnBh^ (for it is nselesB to wash the hands 
without brushing out the nails) and a little tube of Car- 
bolic Acid^ for medical men to carry constantly in theii* 
pockets when on their rounds. The whole is no larger 
than a small snuff-box. It ought to be used by nurses 
and visitors upon the sick as well as by doctors. 

• 

When the infectious period of the illness is over and 
the patient removed from the sick-room — everything 
which has been used or worn by the patient and attend- 
ants having been either disinfected or destroyed as al- 
ready directed — ^the room must be thoroughly disinfected 
in the foUowing manner. 

1. The windows and doors being shut^ the room must 
be kept full of Carbolic Acid fumes for 12 hours by means 
of one of Savory and Moore^s Vaporisers — Then the win- 
dows must be opened for 12 hours before cleaners and 
workpeople are admitted. 

2. The floors^ painty and furniture^ must be washed 
with Water and Chloride of Lime or with Calvert's Car- 
bolic Acid Soap. The ceiling and walls must be Lime- 
washed^ after which the walls may be re-papered if re- 
quired. While this work^ is in progress a fire should be 
kept burning in the grate and the windows open. 



The following particulars as to the mode and proportions 
in which to use Ohloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid, Oondy's 
fluid, and Ohloralum have been kindly furnished by Messrs 
Savory and Moore, and by Mr. Calvert. 

For fumigation by Chlorides. — Dissolve one pound of 
the Chloride of Lime in 4 gallons of Water and after 
stirring the mixture well allow it to settle, pour off the 
clear liquor and place in shallow dishes or other con- 
venient vessels in the rooms and passages of the House. 



108 DISINfBCTlON. 

For use in chjainber utensils^ bed-pans^ spittooiiB^ &c., 
and where a volatile disinfectant is required^ a wine- 
glassful of the above solution should be added to a pint of 
water. 

Carbolic Acid, — When required for the above purposes^ 
that prepared ** for Disinfecting'^ should be obtained — one 
ounce of this added to a quart of Water is sufficiently 
strong to purify drams, water-closets, &c. The mixture 
should be vigorously stirred or shaken (as Carbolic Acid 
is not readily miscible with water). Half a pint of this 
solution put into any utensil used in the sick-room will 
disinfect the contents and enable them to be preserved 
for the inspection of the medical men without any un- 
pleasant effluvia arising. 

Carbolic Acid Oil for anointing patients should consist 
of Olive Oil and about 10 per cent of Carbolic Acid. 

Oondy's fluid. —For use either with the spray producer 
to disinfect rooms, for cleaning sponges or bandages, 
washing the skin of the patient, the personal use of Nurses 
or Medical Attendants, dressing wounds &c., Condys 
fluid should be mixed with water in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful to a pint. Linen and Bed-clothes should be 
immersed in a solution made by mixing a wineglassful in 
a pailful of Water; diluted in this proportion it does not 
stain the linen. 

Chloralum. — The directions for the use of this New 
Disinfectant are to be found on the packages and bottles. 



CHAPTER IX. 

SPECIAL RECIPES, DIRECTIONS, AND APPLI- 
ANCES FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 

As this does not profess to be a '* cookery-book*' only 
a few Medical-food Recipes will be here given, with some 
directions for the cooking and appliances of the sick-room 
which cannot easily be fonnd elsewhere. — For the ordinary 
kitchen recipes the reader is referred to the cookery-books 
of Miss Acton, and Mrs. Beeton, and to Cre-fydd's 
" Family Fabb,'' pp. 240 to 249. 

1. Fabinaobous Abtiolbs should all be submitted to a 
temperature of 212^ Faht. (boiling water) to make them 
digestible. 

2. Bbbf Tea should not be boiled, and should not be 
strained through a fine sieve or muslin. It should be 
made as follows. Take of Rumpsteak, free from fat and 
minced, 1 lb, cold water 1 pint, a pinch of salt. Put them 
into a jar and tie it down. Place the jar in a saucepan of 
cold water, raise this water slowly to boiling and keep it 
slowly boiling for two hours. Remove the jar and strain 
its contents through a very coarse sieve so that all finely 
powdered sediment may run through. Then pass a piece 
of bread over the surface to remove any fat that may float 
upon it. 

3. LiEBiG^s ExTBACT OF Meat and other similar prepara- 
tions. It is important to bear in mind that these contain 
very little, if any, nourishment properly so called; that is 
to say, they contain no plastic material, no fat, no saccha- 
rine matter. Their principal virtues belong to the class 



110 SPBOIAL BECIFES^ DIBECTIONS^ AND 

of stimulants and blood -tonics. When mixed with water, 
they are excellent menstrua in which to administer nutri- 
tive materials, such as eggs, bread, oatmeal, cornflour, 
vermicelli ; but without such additions they are quite in- 
capable of supporting life for any length of time. Baron 
Leibig^s own writings support this statement. Unless 
these facts are borne in mind a patient may easily be 
starved unintisntionally. 

4. Daebt^3 Fluid Meat. This is a new and valuable 
preparation. It contains all the constituents of lean meat, 
including fibrine, gelatine, and albumen ; but by the pro- 
cess pursued these are all brought into a condition in 
which they are soluble in water and are not any longer 
coagulable on heating — in which state they have been 
designated Peptones. This change is effected, as in ordin- 
ary digestion, by means of pepsin and hydrochloric acid. 

The Pepsin employed is very carefully prepared — with- 
out addition of starch or any extraneous substance. Lean 
meat, finely sliced, is digested with the pepsin in water 
previously acidulated with hydrochloric acid at a tempera- 
ture of from 96° to 100° Pah. until the whole of the 
fibrine of the meat has disappeared. 

The liquor is then filtered — separating small portions of 
fat, cartilage, or other insoluble matters — ^and neutralized 
by means of carbonate of soda ; and^ finally, carefully 
evaporated to the consistence required, namely, that of a 
soft extract. 

The resulting extract represents in all its constituents 
the lecm meat employed, but with the fibrine, albumen^ 
and gelatine changed into their respective peptones or 
soluble forms. This change is effected solely by the 
pepsin and hydrochloric acid, or artificial gastric juice, 
without the evolution or absorption of any gas or the 
formation of any secondary products. 



APPLIAK0X8 FOB THB 8I0K BOOM. Ill 

The peptones thus formed^ although agreeing exactly 
in chemical composition and even in many physical 
properties with the substances from which they are derived^ 
differ firom them by a ready solubility in water and even 
in diluted alcohol. 

But this process^ whatever care may be taken^ leaves 
the Fluid Meat with a strong bitter taste. This bitterness 
attaches always to meat digested with pepsin ; and this^ 
in the opinion of medical men^ would wholly preclude 
its acceptance and adoption as an article of food. At the 
same time^ it curiously illustrates the identity of the 
process in the laboratory with digestion in the living 
stomach. 

In order to remove this bifcter taste^ and to obviate the 
objection to Fluid Meat on that ground^ Mr. Darby made 
many experimental researches^ and at length discovered 
that the purpose is completely and satisfactorily effected 
by the addition^ in a certain part of the process^ of a small 
proportion of fresh pancreas. 

The following are methods of using Fluid Meat: — 

One ounce by weight, or a large table* spoonful^ equals 
the quantity of extract^ obtained by boilings from twenty 
ounces of meat. 

Spread between bread and butter^ and sprinkled with 
salt^ it makes an agreeable sandwich. 

Dissolved in water with a little salt and pepper it forms 
a liquid similar in taste to beef tea. 

A small dessert-spoonfiil of the Fluid Meat in half a 
pint of water^ or a tea-spoonful to a large tea-cupful is a 
good proportion^ and this may be increased as desirable. 

Flavoured with suitable condiments^ Fluid Meat may 
be taken as soup ; and^ compared with the amount of solid 
matter obtained from meat by stewing^ it becomes an 
economical article of diet. 



112 8FB0IAL BECIPBSj DIBECTIONS^ AND 

For Oravy Sowp.— Take a Kttle carrot, tomip, onion, 
and celery, with a clove, small piece of mace and pepper ; 
boil gently, strain, and for each half-pint of liqnor add a 
table-spoonfid of Fluid Meat, with a little salt. 

For Vermicelli Soup, — Place in a covered jar in the 
oven a little sliced celery, onion, bruised spices and pep- 
per, with water ; when the celery and onion are thoroughly 
softened, strain, add Fluid Meat, (in the proportion of a 
table-spoonful to half a pint) with salt, a small knob of loaf 
sugar, and vermicelli previously boiled. 

Another Soup. — ^Take two onions, a large carrot and 
turnip, cut into small slices, and fry them well with a 
Uttle butter in a clean pan ; when well browned, pour on 
three pints of boiHng water; let stand till cold, skim, strain 
out the vegetables, add half a pound of girasole root 
previously boiled in water till soft, and two ounces of the 
Fluid Meat ; boil for a minute or two ; macaroni or ver- 
micelli, softened by boilings may be added at pleasure. 

5. White of Egg differs from the yolk principally in 
containing no fat. On this account it is often better 
borne by bilious persons. Yolk of Egg contains 29*8 per 
cent of fat ; when the stomach can bear it, therefore, it is 
a more complete nutriment than the white. But white 
of Egg beaten up in milk answers every purpose. 

Eqgs for the sick should be either raw, or very lightly 
boiled. They should never be given hard. 

6. Whet may be made either with Warren's sweet 
Essence of Rennet, or with Treacle, or with Sherry, ac- 
cording to circumstances. 

a. Bennet Whey — see the directions on the sweet 
Essence of Bennet bottles. 

b. Treacle Whey — ^pour three tablespoonfuls of best 
Treacle into a pint of new milk while it is boiling; 



APPLIANCES FOB THB SICK BOOM. 113 

see that it boils up once after the treacle is added ; set it 
aside to cool and then strain. 

c. White Wine Whey is made in the same way as 

Treacle Whey, 3 glasses of sherry being used to a 

pint of milk. 

Note — When a more nutritious food is desired and 

suitable^ well beat up the curds with the whey instead of 

straining ; see that they are not in lumps. 

7. All Animal foods are apt to lose digestibility by 
repeated cooking. 

8. Bbead should be either toasted or 24 hours old. 

9. Special Restorative. I have found the following 
to be a most efficient restorative food^ and the mixture 
is agreeable to most palates. 

New milk (cold) 4 parts. 

Beef tea (cold) 3 parts. 

Brandy (pale) 1 part. 
If no other food is taken, about 5 fluid-ounces (a quarter 
of a pint Imperial) should.be given every 2 hours, or half 
that quantity every hour. It should be sucked out of a 
syphon Infants-feeding bottle, not drunk out of a spoon 
or cup. When desirable this food may be gradually 
thickened by the addition of boiled corn-flour or other 
farinaceous articles, and one egg may be well beaten up 
in each half pint. The flavour may be varied by adding 
diflferent spices. 

10. Invalid Soup. The following Invalid soup has 
proved extremely useful in a large number of cases, and 
since I first published the recipe in 1864 it has been 
usually kept nicely prepared by Mr. Donges, Confectioner, 
Gower Street, W.C. 

Gravy beef 1 lb., scragg of mutton 1 lb., isinglass 2 oz., 
vermicelli 3 ozs., mushroom ketchup 3 tablespoonfuls, 
corns of allspice 24, sage a sprig, cold water 3 quarts ; 

I 



114 SPECIAL BECIPES^ DIBECTIONS^ AND 

put the isinglass and the meat cut small into the cold 
water^ gradually boil^ skim well^ and then add the other 
ingredients ; simmer four or five hours till reduced to 1 
quart ; strain through a fine hair sieve^ and carefully re- 
move all fat ; add salt to the taste. This may b^ taken 
cold as a jelly^ or warm as a soup. Calf s-foot may be 
used instead of isinglass when procurable-^and when 
allowable a little solution of cayenne pepper should be 
added ; and the taste may be varied by the addition of 
a little Worcester^ or other wholesome sauce. 

11. Combinations of alihentabt fbinciples in neablt 
EXACT NORMAL PBOPOETiONs. (See Chapter IV). 

a. Flour 4 oz., sugar 1^ oz,, suet f oz., milk f pint 
Imperial^ 1 egg.— This will make a good puddings or it 
may be given in any other form desired ; with the addition 
of a little cress and salt and water it forms a complete 
diet, upon a sufficient quantity of which a person can live 
healthfully for an indefinite length of time without any 
other food. 

b. The same may be said of the following. — Bice 3 oz., 
sugar 1 02., 2 eggs, butter J oz., milk f pint (Imperial), 
water as much as is sufficient to boil the rice in. 

c. Suet ^ lb., flour 1 lb., water 13 oz. These quantities 
when boiled yield 2 lbs. of pudding. 

12.. Poet Wine Jelly. Take of port wine 1 pint, 
isinglass 1 oz., sugar 1 oz. ; put the isinglass and sugar 
into ^ pint of water, warm till all is dissolved, then add 
the wine, strain through muslin and set to jelly. (An 
excellent way of giving port wine.) 

13. StJET AND Milk. Put a tablespoonful of shredded 
beef-suet into ^ pint of fresh milk, warm it sufficiently 
to completely melt the suet, then skim it, pour it into a 
wa/rm glass or cup, and drink it before it cools. If there 



APPUAKCES FOB THE SICK BOOM. 115 

is any difficulty in digesting the suet add 5 gr. of 
Pancreatine powder. (Savory and Moore's.) 

14. Milk with Rum, Bbandt, ob Whiskey. Put 1 
tablespoonful of Rum, Brandy, or Whiskey, into half a 
pint of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times 
from one vessel to another. ''Bilious'' persons should 
heat the rum before adding it to the milk. 

1 5. NuTBiTivE Bnemata. When nutriment is given in 
enemata the quantity should not exceed 2 to 4 oz., and 
the temperature should be about 80°. ( 

The bowel should be first washed out with half a pint 
of warm water. — An elastic bottle holding the required 
quantity is better for nutritive enemata than the ordinary 
enema syringe. They should be given while the patient 
is lying on the back with the hips raised on a pillow. 

16. Poultices. Linseed poultices should be made by 
filling a muslin bag with crushed linseed, (not linseed 
meal) then putting it into a basin or dish and pouring 
boiling water upon it. — ^When thoroughly soaked it should 
be squeezed between towels till no water drips from it. 
The same poultice may be made hot four or five times by 
pouring fresh boiling water upon it. Bread poultices 
should be made of finely crumbled bread treated in the 
same way as the linseed. 

17. Fluids fob Inhalations should have a temperature 
of about 170°Faht. 

18. ''Nash's Bbonchitis Kettle" sold at 253 Oxford 
Street, is a new and convenient appliance for impregnat- 
ing the air of a room with warm moisture either pure or 
medicated. Full directions for use are supplied with the 
kettle. 

19. Wabm baths should not exceed a temperature of 
98° without medical orders. 

20« The lights in a sick-boom should always be placed 

i2 



116 SPECIAL BKCIPES^ DIBECTIONB^ AND 

behind the patient^ not in front. Gas should not be used 
at all. (See '^ Ventilation.") Candles are better than 
lamps. 

21. A Nursing Schedule should be used in all Fevers, 
Inflammations, Surgical Gases, and other Acute Tllnesses. 

Those who have been called upon to bear the responsi- 
bility of the Nursing in a severe case of Fever, Inflamma- 
tion, Surgical Operation, or the like, will have a vivid 
recollection of the difficulties they encountered in carrying 
out the various Medical Orders upon the punctual attend- 
ance to which, through anxious days and nights, the 
patient's hfe depended. 

How to arrange the hours for Nutriment, for Medicine, 
for Wine, for Brandy, for dressing wounds, for external 
applications, for Sleep, &c., &c., without one important 
item clashing with another, is often a most puzzling ques- 
tion, requiring the details to be carefully considered and 
arranged in writing, before it is practicable to work them 
out. 

Not unfrequently the orders left by the doctor are mis- 
understood, or found to be impracticable when they come 
to be put together and arranged according to time — the 
hours for dressing .wounds or taking Medicine clashing 
with those for Food, the hours for Wine coming upon 
those for Brandy, or interfering with the necessary sleep, 
and so forth. When the doctor has gone and, perhaps, 
as in country houses, cannot possibly be consulted again 
for many hours, it is difficult to overstate the distress 
of friends and nurses on discovering that orders, which 
have been impressed upon them with all the weight of 
questions of life and death, cannot be implicitly carried 
out from want of a consistent arrangement of their details. 

Happily for the sick, and for the doctors, nursing is 
now passing into the hands of educated Ladies and well 



APPLIANCI8 rOB THE SICK BOOM. 117 

trained Nurses^ competent to understand and to perform 
with intelligence that systematic nursing to which the 
enlightened practical Medicine of the present day attaches 
such vital importance. And the introduction of the 
Glimcal Thermometer and similar appliances into the 
sick room^ makes it necessary in private houses (where 
there are no clinical assistants or house-surgeons as in 
hospitals) to entrust the nurse with the task of keeping 
a register of the temperature, the rate of palse and 
respiration, &c., at hours when the doctor cannot be in 
attendance. 

The doctor who believes in the importance of his own 
orders will be strict in requiring at each visit an accurate 
report of how they have been obeyed. The nurse who 
intends to obey them faithfully will not be satisfied unless 
she sees that they are both intelligible and practicable 
before the doctor leaves the house, and she should write 
them doion directly he is gone. 



CHAPTER X. 

ON THE GERMS AND VESTIGES OF DISEASE 
AND ON THE PREVENTION OF THE INVA- 
SION AND FATALITY OF DISEASE.* 

" Amid all the dangers that threaten thii Metropolis there is a sad cer- 
tainty more serious than any one of them it is not disease but it is not 

health. It is a low state of yitality, of physical power, of mental energy, of 
enjoyment, and even of moral strength." — Times, August 4th, 1868. 

The Duties op Medical Men — The Interdependence op 
Diseases shewing the importance op Periodical 
Examinations — Anjemu and Patty Degeneration 
AS Vestiges op Disease — ^Abnormal Physiological 
. States Conditions not recognised as disease but 
which certainly are not health. 

Gentlemen^ we are all members of a prac/icaZ profession. 
We have taken upon om*selyes high and responsible du- 
ties^ all culminating in action. So long as we choose to 
assume these duties in a profession^ as yet so far from per- 
fection^ we are not justified in spending our time in scien- 
tific investigations or speculations^ unless they have for 
their end some practical application for the good of hu- 
manity. It is the hope of attaining such an end which 
has led me on in the design and labour of these Lectures. 

I proceed at once to lay it before you. 

In the beginning of the first Lecture^ I asserted^ that 
we are justified in practising the profession of medicine 
only in proportion as we believe in the articles of the fol- 
lowing creed : — 

* Selections from Lkcturbs delivered by the Author at the Royal Hos- 
pital for Diseases of the Chest, in 1861. 



ON THE DT7TIBB OF XXDICAL MIN. 119 

1. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
invasion and progress of premature destructive changes in 
the human organism may be prevented or arrested. 

2. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
damaged organism may be more efficiently repaired. 

3. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
sufferings of the human being may be alleviated. 

In what sense the organism is capable of accomplishing 
these ends without the instrumentality of man^ I have 
shown you (in the previous lectures) by numerous argu- 
ments and examples. I have also shown you the various 
modes by which it becomes deprived of this capahilUy, The 
conclusion at which I now arrive is this^ that man may be 
the instrument through whom the capability of accom,- 
plishing these ends may be preserved and restored to the or^ 
ganism. 

The manner in which man is to exercise this instru- 
mentality is the next point for our consideration. But 
I think we have almost reduced it to a necessary conclu- 
sion. For as we have plainly seen that the organism is 
competent to take care of itself^ p;rovided that it possesses 
a normal Vital force and is surrounded by normal con- 
ditions of life ; and as we have also seen that the great 
causes of defect in the force are the vestiges of disease and 
abruyrmal conditions of life ; and as we have also learnt 
that the diseases^ from which the vestiges result^ are 
invited by defects of the force; and that, when thus invited 
and received into the organism, they are capable of being 
disposed of without leaving vestiges behind, if the Vital 
force is firee from excessive defect ; that thus these vestiges 
are due to defective force; and as we have learnt that the 
earliest invasion of defects in the force — upon which all 
the long and intricate succession of ills depend as a germ 
—as we have learnt, I say, that this state of germinatioii 



120 ON THB DtJTIBS OF MIIDICAL MEN.. 

exists at a period anterior to the manifestation of disease 
in its ordinary characters^ and that it is to be found in the 
garb of sUght impairments of the general health, the in- 
dications of which are more and more evasive and occult, 
the earlier the stage of germination ; and, finally, as we 
have learnt that it is in this occult and evasive stage of ger- 
mination that the defect is most easily and most efficiently 
to he remedied ; I think you will agree with me in the 
practical conclusion at which I have arrived. 

This conclusion is — that the manner in which man is to 
exercise his instrumentality for the prevention of disease, 
the prevention of the vestiges of disease, and the preven- 
tion of fatality in disease, is to search out these earliest 
evasive periods, of defect in the physiological state, and 
to adopt measures for their remedy. 

This appears to me to be the highest, the most ennobled 
duty of the physician, calling for the most abstruse know- 
edge of the science of life, the deepest experience in disease, 
the keenest exercise of the perceptive faculties, the calm- 
est, most far-sighted reasoning and the wisest judgment, 
— a duty as much above the management of acute disease 
as to rule an empire is above fighting a pitched battle. 

Now, Gentlemen, I am perfectly convinced, from my 
own observation and experience in practice, that patients 
never think of consulting their doctors till these conditions 
of impaired general health have advanced far enough to 
have been developed into some form of disease: that 
thousands and thousands of persons, believing themselves 
to be in health, are nevertheless undergoing these early, 
occult, and evasive stages of defect in the physiological 
state ; and that such persons may be considered to be in 
health, not only by themselves, but by any one accustomed 
to associate with them. 



FEBIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 121 

The only means by which to reach this evil and to ob- 
tain the good, would be for persons to submit themselves 
and their children to systematic periodical examinations. 

Such examinations ought to include an inquiry into the 
family history, to learn the hereditary constitution ; into 
the personal history, to learn all the previous diseases that 
have been passed through, and the habits and vicissitudes 
of life; into all the conditions of life surrounding the 
individual ; into the condition of the organs and functions 
of the body ; into the state of the secretions and fluids of 
the body by analyses and microscopical examinations; 
and so forth. 

The examination should be reported in writing ; and, 
after due consideration, such advice should be given as a 
careful judgment may dictate, for the future conduct, 
pursuits, and habits of the patient, with a view to correct- 
ing any defects or tendency to defects in the organism. 
Advice should also be given as to the means of removing 
any vestiges of disease that have been detected, or if they 
are not removable, advice as to the best way of overcoming 
their influence or of averting their increase. To this 
must be added precautions to be adopted in certain con- 
tingencies which, according to the judgment of the case, 
appear probable. 

If such a plan as I have here proposed were to be faith- 
fully and conscientiously carried out by the present and 
rising generation of well-educated, studious, medical men, 
immense benefit would be conferred upon the public. The 
next question is, then, what would be the eflect upon the 
profession in a pecuniary and in an ethical sense. With 
regard to the pecuniary question, it is only necessaiy to 
observe that, of course, I do not expect that any man in 
good practice, whose time is profitably employed, could 



122 FBBIODICAL BXAXXNATI0N8. 

oonduct such an examination and give such advice for the 
usual consultation -fee. A special fee would be necessary 
to enable him to give the necessary time and considera- 
tion to every case. 

But this should in no way interfere with the power of 
the poor to participate in such a system. Every hospital 
and dispensary should institute a distinct department for 
the conduct of such examinations^ and for giving the ne- 
cessary advice. Every patient discharged from its wards 
should be submitted to this department before returning 
to the duties of life.* 

I have again and again referred in these Lectures to the 
numberless anomalous symptoms^ the pains^ discomforts^ 
nervous disturbances^ etc.^ etc.^ which affect persons in 
abnormal physiological states^ and which increase in their 
severity^ obviousness^ and number^ as the states of health 
become more and more degraded^ and the occurrence of 
some acute disease becomes more imminent. I have 
pointed out to you that these are the states of health 
which fill our consulting-rooms and the out-patient de- 
partments of hospitals and dispensaries. 

In further confirmation of my statements on this point 
I may remind you of some apposite observations by Sir 
Henry Holland on the subject of symptomatic complaints. 
In his ^'Medical Notes and Reflections'' he says, speaking of 
gouty blood. — " Irregular actions of the heart, hypochon- 
driacal depression, as well as the more common symptoms 
of d/yspepsia and disordered secretions, frequently antecede 
by months the first appearance of gout in the extremities^ 
and occasionally give serious alarm even to those who look 

* For details of the mode of carrying out the Examinations at public 
Charities, see a paper by the Author read at the Guildhall, June, 1862. 
TnmaacUcyM of the NaXionaX AssocidMon for the promotion of BociaX ScieTice* 



FBSIODICAL EZAHIKATI0N8. 128 

with medical eyes npon these ambiguous cases.^' — (p. 246, 
3rd edition). 

^^ Modem observation has led us to recognise some of 
these relations (of gout with local or constitutional dis- 
orders) under the names of gouty headache^ gcndy ophthaU 
mia, and gouty bronchitis. My own experience would lead 
me to add many cases of asthma to the number. I have so 
often seen this disorder prevalent in gouty families^ afiecting 
those who do not undergo the disease in the joints, and 
ceasing wholly or in part when the gout appears exter- 
nally^ that I cannot doubt the existence of this relation. 

" The greater tendency to apoplexy in this habit is no- 
ticed by many of the older writers, and confirmed by 
general experience. 

^^Eeference has already been made to hypochondriasis 
and hysteria ; and it is probable that other disorders of 
the same class, still less generally viewed under this con- 
nection, will hereafter be submitted to it. 

" The relation of gout to the functions and disorders of 
the liver is another point of much interest in pathology, 
clearly attested both in the active symptoms of the disease 
and by those which are common under other forms of the 
gouty temperament. This, moreover, is one of the points 
associating it with that group of maladies bearing the 
vague name of dyspepsia. 

'^ The connection of gout with cutaneous affections is an 
additional topic, yet almost unexamined ; though I cannot 
doubt, from my own observation, that certain of these 
disorders occur as effects of the habit in question.^' — (pp. 
253-54.) 

The enormous quantities of medicine dispensed in the 
out-patient departments of hospitals and dispensaries for 
the temporary relief of this class of functional derange- 
ments and local diseases — for complaints which might be 



124 PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

prevented by the patients themselves if they were pro- 
perly informed of the causes and premonitory symptoms 
of their maladies — ^these are facts which must be perfectly 
familiar to all my hearers. Such a system of examination 
and advice as I propose, if properly carried out, must 
strike at the root of these evils, and would at the same 
time reduce the miserable over-crowding of the hospital 
waiting-rooms, and the enormous expenses incurred for 
drugs. These are considerations which, however import- 
ant as elements of social and political economy, are ele- 
vated far above the rank of financial questions by the fact 
I have endeavoured to demonstrate in these Lectures, that 
by these same means, and at the same time, we shall so 
largely promote the economy of life, 

I hope, Gentlemen, that you will draw the attention of 
the treasurers and governors of any hospitals to which, 
you may belong to this subject. It is necessary to the 
credit and honour of our profession, that improvements 
in these medical establishments should not come &om the 
public to us, but should originate among ourselves, and be 
urged by medical men upon the public attention. 

The following sketch of a common complaint, and a 
common story, may illustrate the need for some such sys- 
tem as I propose. A lad of fifteen is admitted into a 
hospital ward with a first attack of rheumatic fever. He 
is treated with skill, and nursed with care, and in two or 
three weeks he is convalescent, and returns to his home 
without having received any damage to his heart or other 
organs. But he has no proper understanding of the na- 
ture of his complaint, of the conditions of life calculated 
to keep up the morbid influence in his organism ; no clear 
notions of the diet which he ought or ought not to adopt ; 
no knowledge of the premonitory symptoms by which a 
fresh attack of rheumatic fever is heralded, or of the pre- 



PXBIOBICAL EXAMINATIONS. 125 

canidons necessary when such an attack is feared. He has 
probably a general idea that his great enemy is cold^ and 
his great friend flannel j and that is as likely to lead him 
wrong as right in the measures he adopts. 

He goes back to his home and his pursuits apparently 
well. He keeps his skin closely cased in flannel^ and his 
dwelliiig-rooms warm^ but he neglects altogether to pro- 
vide for efficient excretion by the skin. He chooses a 
business^ either utterly regardless of its fitness for his con- 
stitution^ or makes as great a mistake by selecting one 
in which he may be sure of warm — that is to say dose — 
rooms and workshops by which he is deprived of exercise 
and oxygen. He drinks beer^ eats cheese^ and so forth^ 
like other people in his position. After a few months he 
comes hack as an out-patient at the hospital^ with severe 
acid dyspepsia^ and after consuming the usual amount of 
drugs for several weeks, gets relief, and goes back to his 
old habits. A few months more^ and he appears again^ 
the subject of a skin-disease ; goes again through the con- 
sumption of drugs^ and gets well and goes back to work. 
By and by he comes again with diarrhoea^ and goes 
through the same process; at another time with gravely 
and gets relief again. At lengthy a few years perhaps 
having elapsed, and after some months of depressed healthy 
with palpitations of the hearty gloomy thoughts^ irritable 
temper^ and general malaise, he happens to be out on a 
damp raw day^ gets a chilly and applies again at the 
hospital^ with a fresh attach of rheumatic fever. This 
time he suffers from endocarditis^ and after some weeks 
returns again to his home^ '^ discharged cured/' but with 
disease of the valves of his heart. He has been thoroughly 
well treated, and is very free from rheumatic poison, and 
hence goes on for a considerable time without much 
inconvenience ; but having no clear ideas of the nxiture 



126 nXIODICAL SXAJOSAZIOXS. 

of the damage he has received, or cf the precautions ne- 
ocsaarj to present its increase or the production of 
seoondaiy diseases dependent upon this damage for th^ 
canse^ he gradually becomes the subject of congested 
Inngs and U^er ; of attacks of bronchitis to which he was 
not formerly inclined ; his breathing becomes shorty his 
old dyspeptic troubles^ cntaneoos affections and gravel, 
recnr again and again, and his capability of following his 
former occupations gets less and less. 

If he does not have another attack of rheumatic fever, 
he comes back to the hospital some future day with 
chronic bronchitis, or with apoplectic S3rmptoms, or with 
congested liver, or still later with albuminuria and dropsy. 
At length he dies, and his death is registered under the 
head of apoplexy, heart-disease, or dropsy. 

All medical men of experience will admit that this 
sketch is no exaggeration ; that I have, in fact, omitted 
numerous details of minor diseases and discomforts, that 
are sure to have existed in the case itself. I have said 
nothing of the effects upon this man^s children of his 
continued ill-health, or of the poverty and want of food 
brought upon his wife and family by the same cause, and 
acti/ng as fresh causes of disease in them. But I have said 
enough to make it quite clear, that, in the course of a 
life prematurely ended, he must have consumed a vast 
amount of money in the form of drugs, and a vast 
amount of nervous energy, if not of brains, in the form 
of medical advice. 

It is to the first causes, to the ^^ wells and springs" of 
such a series of calamities as this, that I have directed 
your attention as fellow medical practitioners, and to 
which I now beg that you will direct the attention of 
the Treasurers and Governors of Hospitals and Dispen- 



yiSTIOXS OF DI81ASB. 127 

saries^ of yotir private patients^ and of the public at 

large. 

« « « • « 

In my fourth lecture I gave an Etiological analysis of 
those states of disease assembled under the following six 
headings in the Begistrar-General's Beports of the deaths 
in London. (Report of the deaths in London registered 
in the 21st week of each of the ten years 1848-57. The 
Report current at the time the notes for these Lectures 
were made.) 

1. Typhus^ typhoid and other forms of continued fever. 

2. Apoplexy and Paralysis. 

3. Heart diseases and Pericarditis. 

4. Rheumatism and Gout. 

5. Bronchitis. 

6. Atrophy and Debility. 

I demonstrated that^ when we analyse the natural his- 
tory of any disease^ we find that the principal factcfrs of 
its essential cause, of its predisposing causes and of the 
causes of its fatality fall under one of the three head- 
ings i — 1. Conditions of life. 2. Coetaneous diseases. 
3. Vestiges of Disease. 

I showed not only theoretically but from actual obser- 
vations made by others as well as by myself^ how the 
organism becomes damaged by these Yestiqes or Disiase 
— how the vital force becomes defective through these 
Vestiges, how this defective state of the vital force be- 
comes the essential cause and the predisposing cause of 
disease ; and how the Vestiges of one disease become the 
causes of fatality in whole families of other diseases. 

I endeavoured to prove, by an array of facts, that the 
vestiges of disease become causes of fatality in other dis- 
eases principally in two ways. 

1. By destroying those modes of matter and that corre- 



128 IKTKBDBPSNBSNCS OF DI8SABB8. 

lation of conditions upon which the existence of the vital 
force in its normal condition depends^ thus producing 
excessive defect of the vital force. 

2. By producing ezcessiye defect in the condition of 
some part of the organism^ occupying the position, at the 
time, of an essential instrument in the processes of life, 
and thus causing the organism to break down at this its 
weakest part. 

I pointed out that in the large majority of deaths from 
disease, the fatality is due, not to the disease itself, bui to 
the vestiges of some pre-existent disease, operating in one or 
other of the above ways. 

In illustration of this great fact, I have set forth the 
course of events, by which the vestiges of disease, passing 
under the names of ANiEMiA and faitt DBOSKEBA^noN, be- 
come the actual causes of a large number of the deaths 
registered under the following names : 

Tabes mesenterica, croup, measles, hydrocephalus, 
whooping-cough, dentition, convulsions, apoplexy, para- 
lysis, delirium tremens, intemperance, angina pectoris, 
diseases of the heart, pneumonia, diarrhoea, mortification, 
influenza, peritonitis, childbirth, bronchitis, jaundice, 
Uver disease, kidney disease, and some others. 

As an indication of the insidious way in which the 
deadly influence is exerted by these states, — ^anjsmia and 
FATTY D1S0ENEBATI0N — (which Are Only examples of a class), 
I called attention to the fact that their names do not 
appear in the bills of mortality. (See Anaemia, Fatty 
Degeneration.) 

My object now is to exhibit in a conspicuous manner 
the Iktebdependence of diseases. (See Chapter I). 

I have therefore restricted myself to a statement of the 
influence exerted by the vestiges of each of the diseases 
analysed in the preceding Lectures upon the rest of the 



INTBSDBPBNDBNCS OF BISEASSS. 129 

same little group^ and in order that the different relation- 
ships may be seen at a glance I have arranged the facts 
in a tabular form. 

In the following tables the first column gives a list of 
the vestiges of the disease at its head. The second column 
shows to which of the diseases already analysed each vestige 
may become the predisposing cause; the third column 
shows to which of these it may become the essential cause^ 
and the fourth column shows to which it may become the 
cause of fatality. It must be remembered that several 
vestiges usually concur in producing their effects. 



K 



130 



INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES. 



•J 

g 

(0 
M 
to 

< 
U 

o 

< 




f. 

a 






ft ft^ 



O 

e 
o 

u 

PQ 






« 

0) 

en 



~ I 



§ SI 



O 

M 
H 
M 

< 

o 

H 

M 
10 
10 

u 



.a 

1 

• mm 

s 

•8 






I 



JS G • 

—la •< 

-9 

eg- 



C 
O 



la 



o 

CO 

O 

SO 
hS 

a^ 

o 
u 

n 



J3 
O 

c 

e 



c 

V * 

•o S) 

•or. 

© > 



9 



u 

WJB 

US c 
H 



I 

H 

< 

OS 

si 

o H 

O IM 

H 

* ?! 

o P 

M 

09 h 

H O 

•■4 01 

H »« 
C0 U 

td < 



is 



8 

V 

'•5 



a 
> 

> 



a 



«> 

c 

C/3 



a 
o «, 

c 9.C 
ti ** ** 



E 

B 



IS 

«E 

o 

.** « 

Q 



IlrrSBDXPBNDSNCB OF DISXASB8. 



131 



r 



H 

•J 

< 

< 

b 

o 

«i 

H 

00 

•< 

o 

Q 

X 

< 



> 



E 

s 



J3 
u 

C 

S 

n 





& 






i 




w 






«> 






1 


• 

3 


• 

9 


u 


V ^ 


JS 




« s 


Q, 


a 

1 








Im 


V 




V 


•m 


• 
•5 




*5 


•»• 


•^ .> 


<< 


u 




g 


e 


B cS 


9 


2 


ee 


:§ 


n 


PQ 


oi 



It 

:5E 

«2 



09 

9 



8 



1 

s 




g 

(0 

M 
09 

•< 
O 

< 

M 

H 
2 

M 
09 
CO 

u 



o • 

>« 

I' 



& 






C 

a 

e 
n 

a 



g V «9 



Bi I 



'■si 

•o ens 
« o c 

bfrM.3 



«* 

•o 

e 
>« 

•a 



o 

o. 

< 



o 

09 

o 

s° 

OS H 

fl. CO 

So 

O 

u 

M 



•a o • 

a-"-- 

.2" 5 
llc.2 

PQ 



s s 



4) 

V 

J3 



e 
o 



V 

s 



4) 

ua 

V 

JS 



a 
o 

g 

c 

& 



M 
V 






K 

O 

H 



5 & 



fa 



fa 



o 

c 

2 



2S 

PQ 



J3 
u 

C 

2 

PQ 



V 

Q 



a 

< 



s 
So 

•< •< 

CO S 

M OS 

Q H 
I 

CO < 

H '< 

« H 
MM 



** 8 

"s'S 
>.* 

o «> 

ri 09 

S-2 

"* 09 
g^ 

t; « 

is > 5 

09r3 9 

O >'0 
O 



I 



B 
O 

Is 

c ♦• 
«> tt 

c «> 
"■iS 

S o. 
H 



e u 

s 

0) c 3 

•si- 



Vs S S o 



o 

>« 

ja 
p. 
o 
w 

t 

a 



^ * 9 

O SI 09 

J3 o 

09 eO) 

O «« *3 

B b*^ 

> 




e • 

s 

« 2 

e 

:2 c 

^ o 



O ** « 
■** t^ B 

8. °8 



B 
B 



Sna 
S 9 

09«r! 



]2 




I^ 


fTBRl) 


ElPENDBNCE i 


OT DISEASES. 






1 




• 




jver. 
litis, 
dis- 
mu- 


s 

9 




vere 
and 

a in 


s 


> 

H 

o 

i 

< 


• 

to 

J3 


bitis. Atrophy and debi 
rt-diseitee. 


• 
M 

"3. 

1 

• 
09 


-disease. Rheumatic fe 
•phy and debility. Bronch 
xhaustion from excessive 
ge, or asph^rxia from accu 
►n of secretion. 


IS. Apoplexy. Subseq 
cks of bronchitis. 


• 

en 


hitis. Paralysis. Any se 
ase, especially typhus 
srs due to a morbid poisoi 
blood. 


•disease. Rheumatism 
t. Typhus. Apoplexy. 


a 
< 


u 

e 

s 


gs 


1 


eart- 
Atrc 
bye: 
char 
latio 


ypht 
attai 


u 

c 

8 


rone 
dise 
othc 
the 






n 


CQ 


PQ 

• 
• 


X 
c • 


H 


PQ 


• 


• 
• 


O 






• 


^- 






tf 


«9 


M 






• 


O, ' 






• 




M 
w 

•< 

u 






• 
• 


2 

^ : 






'Jo 


u 

CO 

••* 


»4 

2 


- 


«> 


• 


i . 








s 


(0 






• 


-disea 
lity . 






e 

c« 




(0 




X 


• 


Heart 
debi 






1 

< 


1 



(9 

CO 

O 

s° 

Qj CO 

at) 

o 
u 

M 

n 



J3 
u 

e 

2 
PQ 



4> 

a 

19 

t 



J3 
o 

e 
2 
n 



o 

c 
o 

u 
PQ 






a 



u 

c 

2 
PQ 



X 
"0, 

a 



8 

w 

c« 

a 

V 

•!» 

R=3 



s 

ea 

a 

V 



a> 



a 



w 



8 
u 

o 
Pi 

PQ 

pd 
o 

w 
H 
O 

H 
M 

H 

> 



.a 
u 

e 
o 



•a 



a 

V 
(O 

a 
£ 
(I) 






V 

J3 



Ck.,0 
b at 



9 
O 

US 



V3^ 

•Se 

2fc 
•- ^ 



I 



c 

s> 

C 

o 
o 



CO 

9 
O 

a 



a> • 

S : 

O O 

«3 

B V 



00 

9 
O 

c 



I 

o 



«> 
X 



C " 



? 



J3 
O 

e 

I 

«> 

e 
u 

(J 
H 



«> 
Q 



u 

je 

o 
o 



c 
o 
u 

V 

00 



a 

V 

CO „ 
12 » 

■a V 

J ho 

•§8J 

;4 



nmCRBEPENDSNCB OF DIBKASES. 



133 



I 

z 



H 

•J 

•< 
H 
< 
fa 

h 
O 

OB 
M 

CO 

< 
U 

Q 

< 



wo 
8S 



.2 8 


< 


4.S 


(b 


eum 
rt-d 


g 


^a^. 


s 


, "2 


D 


(B >*M 


< 


•a 2-fi 


u 


ja^t) 


o 

as 


rone 
Typ 
and 


< 



o 

(0 
M 
M 

•< 
U 

pi 

< 

H 
2 

(4 
00 
00 



V 

«D 



ft 



PQ 



§■'5 

'n a "> 

2 cC^ 



o 

CO 

o 

« 2 
sU 

^^ 
•^ 

U 

M 

CQ 



I 

H 

"< 

(d 

O 

S 

§5 
go 

Oh 
fcO 

o« 








8) 



M 
p 



§ I 



01 

(d 
O 

H 
01 

W 

> 






•a • 

"S 

c o. 
"" k. 

-I ** 

•Si 

22 

o c 
o 

00 



•3 

2 

CO o 

o o* 

00 






u 

•- «0 

I- 

00 S 
"^ ^ 

S o 
PQ 



00 






s ■< 
o o. 

e B 



-.2. >»i: *^ 

00 ^^ O S M^^ 



o S 
u ct 



4> 






I 

X 






O 

00 
H 
M 

-< 

u 

•J 

•< 

2 

a) 
<0 
01 



o 

2 
00 

O 
(fl o 

o«i 

H M 

« GO 
fa S 

HU 

S 

o 
u 
M 

PQ 



O M 






o& 

K 
H 



M (0 

Sg 



2S 

o *• 

2« 

< g 



CO 2 

X a 



c j; » 



a 
&.S 

U 

a 
|« 

S S ^ 



s 

a 



"Si 

< 

00 8 

IS) 

fa 



ct 



e 



S-sg- 

!•§ 
* s >» . 

• ^ o 

Ig^ : 
gSU : 



c 

s 

n 



la 



•a 
c 
cs 



a •* >; 

l«^ 

OS ••« 

00-° 

a V 
2 ^-'S 

•a 

• c . 
.2 •«S 

lit 

fa 



.t^'O *^ *: J3 

8 3^ 3 " S 
j3 00 .a 00 4^ Cki 



t: o >■ S 



r^ 



.a 



M 
u 

C 

8 

n 



«* 

M 

V 

> 

ii 
«) 

e 

Q 



S o S 
o-a 00 

O g u 



8oa « 

III 

o 5 ^ 

GpQs 

•a bo 
c •a 






a 



18*3 

V » «> 



•Sfi 



w : 



on 



o-S 

fi .« 

« <3 S S 
c« 00 ij "* 

I I'll 

CO V u •M 



Oh 



o 
«> 

13 

«a 
o 

(3 

o 



00 

c 
o 

•o 

V 

4i« 

I § 

1 ^ 

i § 

I I 

99 dP 



o 

00 



M 
■»■» 

O 

c 

ct 

ct 

S 
tt 

B 
< 



134 



INTBBDEPENDBNCE OF DISEASES. 



I 

K 



>> 
H 



H 

•< 

g 

OB 
M 
ca 

< 
< 



O 

CO 

M 
en 

•< 
U 



H 

w 

CO 

Hi 



I I 

S B 

'•S V 

U 

rt S o 

g rt O 

^ 2 f> 

4> Ctf C 

0< 



H 

•J 

•< 
H 
■< 
(L, 

b. 
O 

10 

H 

CO 

•< 
U 

Q 
z 



h 
O 

CO 

H 

CO 

"< 
U 

•J 

•< 

H 

(4 
(A 
(O 



CO 



0* 



tco 






• 

o 


1 


b 


c« 


2 






CQ 


c: 


^^ 






G 

1 




•s 

c 
c 


4^ 


•a. 


c 
o 




< 


•s 


tc 






^c 




& 


*<5 


• 


»« 


u 


t> 


o 


u 


CD 


*M 


is 




C« 
U 
CO 




hen 
ilexy. 


55 


5 

o 


t 




< 



o 
gs 

COA 



g 
«> 
c 

«> CO o 
Met g 

Q 






«> 

e 

c« 



«) 

•O 

e 

o. 
o 

u 



O 

l-< 
CO 

O 

J2o 

U CO 

a" 

o 
u 

H 

PQ 



o 



CO t* 

H as 

<< M 

K o 

s> 

H 
CO u 

CO o 



O 

09 
H 
09 

•< 

u 



O 

K 

CO 

s 

CO 

Q 
M 
Ot 
Pk 

H 

O 
fj 
H 



S M 

O t> 

£2 

"^ O 
co'O 

>• to 

Ha 

b. 96 

CO * 
M ^ 

■^ M 

H 8 
(A H tJ 
M O S 

Q >• 
• Z H 



c« 

V 
JS 
V 

> 

a 

to 

Q 









G 

O 

e 
«* 

a 
«> 



^ 



c 
u 

C 
«> 

H 




•^TJ bO 

« t3"3 



1^ 



I I 

V > 

V o 



a 



•8 



•2 sou 
c o 

C«'« 

V b h. 

.2 g o CO 

• -S * 
ti 2 





I 

4) 

e 



•r* *" 

^2 
•5-C 

tj'O 
1< u ^ 



o 









2§. 

a 



i 



(g «> 
gbo 

>1 CO 

««^ 

boc 
eg 



•CO 

CO 
>, 

H 

u 
cd 

a 

•a 

c 

cd 
>» 

X 

it 

"H. 
o 
p. 

< 



o 
o 



e 
o 

I 

K 



e 

•o 
e 
«> 

H 



u . 
6 

•5 1 

Sa 

" ca 

al 

^ o 
•o'C 

O 44 

•5 ^ 
H 



INTKRDEPKNDKNCK Of DISIiASES. 



135 



1 


< 




1 










1- 


>• 


• 




>• 


• 

: 9 




s 




3 


< 


1 




H 

»H 

-< 






X 






H 

•< 


^ 




< 






rf 




•«6 




1 


• 




1 

2 


i 


1 




•o 8 
>6 


M 

M 


s 


§• 


M 

M 


•a 




0. 




n 


(0 

< 


• 


-< 


M 


s 


• 


■ 






u 




• 


o 


>« 


b 


s^ 




-i _! 


o 


•ss^ 


CD 

9 


Q 


•§. 


1 


V • 




« (0 

2 '5 


K 


e V 


•6 


K 


o 




13 




•9*5 


< 


S-5. 


S 


< 


u 
«« 


g_ 




S^ 




n 


H 




•< 


< 


< 




H 




1 • 

9 • 












• 




o . 


JO ** 




S 












09 


e( 




(0 








u 




M 


^» ^« 




M 








V 




(A 

< 






(0 

< 

^4 








e 
& 

3 




H 


€ e« 




H 








e( 




K 


(««S 




Z 








s 




H 


•s-s . 


"3 

"5 

Oh 


tii 








1 
4) 





o 
as 

(0 

o 
w 

M 

o 

GQ 



S 



(0 

u 

g. 

•a 

s 



a 



'S. 

a 



M 

.J 
Pk 
O 
Pk 

< 

O 

« 
M 
O 

H 
(0 
M 

> 



e 
o 

• mm 

■** 

o 
o 



10 

c 

4) 



5. 



Sg 'S 

9 S •a 

u 5 o 

*« is 

>*^ E 

S M M 

■** « C 

§a I 

** o 

C/3 (/} 



O 

z 

M 
Cfl 

O 

Ss 

Jr * 

So 

o 
u 

M 



M 

>• 

% 

(0 
H 
O 

H 
cfl 
M 

> 



X 



K 

4) 

'B. 

a 

< 



1 



V o 



c S 

4) > 

3 CO 



•a (J g 



J3 



e 
o 

• mm 

(J 



t 

o 



BS 



o 
a 

■g 



c 

o 

•wm 

t: 

a 



P. 



O M< V< 



g 0. 



^ o 
bou 

•i- 

c c 

U3 



u 



a 



(0 

s 

CD 



t • 



73 >» 

rt Si 



a 
u 

St 



CO 

.AC 
u 



O si 
J* 

V o 

Q 



4) '*' 



•Ota 
o u 

H 



136 



INTEBDEPENDENCB OF DISEASES. 



1 






z 






»« 






> 






H 






»« 






•J 






< 






H 






< 


• 




b 


■9 


» 







9 


^ 


M 


^ 


o 


& 


a 


09 
M 


H 


H 


M 






t3 


• 


• 


^ 


« 


(0 




2 


4rf 




JC 


M 


Q 


u 


o 


K 


e 


(3 


< 


2 


2 




n 


n 



p. 

•a 

c 

K 

"5. 
o 
a 

< 



Et 

en ^ 

•C 0.01 
o o w 

2<-'S 



ss 

J3 " 

a 
, o 

s 

73 09 
J. 3 

o. 



£.23 



(0 

P. 

H 



4) 

s 

V 
(0 

•*« 

T3 
I 

is 



U3 
u 
C 
o 

CQ 



OB 

9 



*' 9 

09 S« 

^ bo 

(0 

* 4^ 

<" cS 

.ti E 

ja 9 

cue 

2« 



«E 

— 13 >» 

j: ti ** 

c Es 

P => « 

» -2 



5.9 

gr 
p< 



^^2 



PQ 



« 89 ^ 

St: 2= 

O « C 

< 



O 

OB 

M 
M 

o 

< 

o 

< 

H 

as 

H 

M 
M 



«> 

T3 

•a 

c 

P. 

O 



T3 

•a 

c 

c« 

>t 

J3 
P. 
O 

u 



a- 

3 

-•s 

-2 
Sg. 

e 

U Pi 

Q 



^ 



•a 



n: o 

^9 

I-- 



•B I 

O P< 
73" 
*«^ ^ 



.2 2 

01 h * 
ctf u 
p<o 

§•§•3 

P.'CB 



o 

u 



c« 
u 
o 






•a 
§.2 

O et 

•M **• 



«> 

•a 

c 

et 

U3 
P. 

O 

u 



O 

z 

CO 

s 

u 

n 



09 . 

•a 

u 

(9 . 

o • 

K 

(0 

a? 

c «> 
rt bfl 

2 w 

9 u 

.a - 



I 

(0 



CO 

9 
O 



&I 



s 

Is 

s| 
J? 

GB O 



U3 



(0 

75 
p. 

s 

P<e9 

a=5 



8 



I 



09 

P. 

U 

O 

K 
«> 

"p. 

a 



9 
JC 

p. 
o 



•s ' 

•9 

c 

ctf to 
• »^ 

(A 

•A 73 

p rt 

< 



8B • 

•O 9 
■ O 

|c 

* cd 

.2"e'" 

JS •** 

si 

> u 

09 . 

9 «7 

.9 lA 



Q 

as 

< 

>* 

X 
o 

K . 
H >« 

o n 
o 

H 

03 
M 

> 



rsg • 

u3.n 

•a E : 
o o 

"2 bo 

C.S • 
P.C 

6il3 
V 9 ^ 

J3 .P 
U h V 

0)73 

M e rt 

pt; 



.t: o 
u V u 

- t3 

ofiJ 
"" 'ri E 

^ 3e 2 

*^'9tC 

.- P 3 
fe Is " 
op, 

09 ^ 

PwQ (4 h 
{3 U P.O 

CO 






(4 . 
o • 

Is 

V p, 

c 

bo 

09 O 

**< E 
o o 

c " 
.S'S 

*^ 2 

C-w 

i) o 



SS g t> 

aK-9 

«> „ rt 

a> CO 

B « ,- 

o CO i2 

cd-S u . 



I • 

OB . 

> 

U 

O . 

ctt 

Sis 

.9 O 

V c4 
4: O 

*■« 
C >. 

CO g 

00 J3 

o ^ 

.•2 « 
b 



SA : 

•a » 
Si? 
p. . 

O 09 JJ 

E^3 
o c-o 

" s 

10 >» « 

9S bfl 

5 « a 



9 
Q 



09 
«B 

9 
O 

v 

CO 
CO 

O 
V 
43 



CO 



• F4 t? 

et O 

fes 

CO 

fit: 

E*^ 

> O 
0) 



-^ E 

CO 



.2 
Q 



o u 

"o CO 
tS§C 

H e (< 
fcE hfi 

< 



•0 ' 
c 2 

*a 

of CO 
U 9 

'Z O 
. » (J 

SE 

GB «> 
9'fi 
O** 

*- r^ 

«g 

2 

«.• 
9 00 

bo 
2 J^ 
C rt «, 

oua 2 



X.2 
0:5 



09 



CO 



.9.= 



10 



>»i73 • 

B g 2 • 
* ° S 

■s. V 9 

•cj; bo • 

UJS 00 00 

ctf o 

«** 

g U 0) O 
O U4i** 
U 9 c 

.SSS^.2 
o* E-^ 

"S s i 2- 

S E boP. 
H 



u bo>« 

9.S'§. 

Co o<** 

O 

Mm"" 

ss 

- ** 3 

JB CO B 
■*J ";.^ 
c«'9*' 

V C 

2§«>. 

£4:.^ 

&s43 -^-^ 
C C V 

9 c ^ ij 

U (fC o 

H 



A3HMMIA, 137 

Having shown the remarkable interdependence which 
exists between different diseases — ^how they act and react 
upon one another^ I must attempt in this Lecture^ to 
show^o what extent one vestige of disease, or the several 
vestiges of one disease, may act as essential causes and as 
causes of death in other diseases. I will first take some 
Diseases which have no place in the Registrar's report. 
This will enable us to observe how many of the headings 
under which deaths are registered in that report owe their 
existence there to diseases which never figure at all as 
ca%ises of death. 

The first example I have chosen is Anaemia, a name 
that does not appear in the Registrar's Reports. 



ANEMIA. 

A careful examination of the subject teaches us that 
Anaemia is one of the most frequent vestiges of all severe 
diseases^ when they do not terminate in death — the pa- 
tient remains anaamic during convalescence^ and in a large 
number of cases continues so long after returning to the 
duties of life. Again, we observe, that anaemia is contin- 
ually occurring in connection with the periods of puberty 
and the cessation of the catamenia, and that during the 
intervening years, it is one of the most frequent forms of 
impaired health connected vdth derangements of men- 
struation, vrith lactation, with convalescence from the 
puerperal state, and during pregnancy. 

Innumerable other causes may be found for this condi- 
tion, which is, in fact, the type of most of those miserable 
states of health referred to by the Times in the memorable 
article already quoted — " There is a certainty worse than 
any occasional and precarious plague. We may anticipate 
it from our own experience — we may see the great fact 



138 ANEMIA. 

with our own eyes It is not disease^ but it is 

not health. It is a low state of vitality, of physical 
power, of mental energy, of enjoyment, and even of moral 

strength Shocking as it may seem, a plague 

once in twenty years seems but a light evil to so low a 
condition of humanity/' 

From a concatenation of circumstances, it so happens 
that the female portion of the population have to support 
the principal weight of this dire affliction. Anaamiated 
girls, anoemiated brides, anasmlated spinsters, anadmiated 
mothers, abound in the consulting room, the outpatient 
room, the hospital ward, the home; wherever, in fact, 
the physician's duties call him there they are to be found. 
Yet from the long list of diseases named in the mortality 
tables, this name, anasmia, is absent. Is it, then, a thing 
to be endured, but not to be feared ? Is it a name for 
sickness only, and not a cavse of death ? Quite the reverse, 
gentlemen, the fact is that, like some individuals of great 
influence and importance, anaamia travels incognito, W^en 
we discover its various "nommes de guerre'' we are 
startled to find ourselves face to face with the inpersona- 
tion of long-dreaded enemies. 



Tabes mesenterica 


. 18-3 deaths 


per week. 


Croup . 


. 6-8 


>> 


99 


Measles . 


. 25-0 


3} 


99 


Hydrocephalus 


. 32-5 


}i 


99 


Whooping-cough 


. 51-1 


>y 


99 


Pnenmonia . 


, 60-3 


}> 


99 


Dentition 


. 12-8 


» 


99 


Diarrhoea 


. 17-6 


» 


99 


Convulsions 


. 36-5 


99 


99 


Bronchitis . 


. 64-5 


99 


99 


Childbirth . 


. 4-3 


99 


99 



329-6 



ANJIMIA. 139 

These are some of the names under which ansBmia 
travels among the sick^ and takes its place in the bills of 
mortality. The way in which it does so is as stealthy as 
it is deadly. I will tell yon something of how it happens. 

" Among the children of the poor of London, the most 
widely-spread of these diseases (tuberculosis, scrofulosis, 
rickets,) is rickets. It is, however, by no means limited 
to the poor, or to London, or even to large towns.^' I 
quote from one of the most correct medical philosophers 
of modern times. — (Dr., now Sir W., Jenner, Lectures 
ON Rickets, Medical Times and Gazette. March 17, I860.) 

'' Bickets is essentially and purely a disease of nutrition, 
not of one part only, but of the whole body." 

" Rickets causes, primarily or secondarily, more deaths 
than any other disease of childhood." 

" The great causes of death in rickets are : — 1. Intensity 
of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 3. 
Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of the 
lymphatic glands and spleen (but also of the liver). 
4. Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic Hydrocephalus. 
6. Convulsions. 7. Diarrhoea." 

You see, gentlemen, how closely this list of the causes 
of death in rickets corresponds with the list I have just 
given of what I have called the " nommes de guerre'^ of 
anaemia ; and the correspondence is really closer than it 
appears at first sight. 

'^The connection between rickets and laryngismus 

stridulus,^ continues Sir William, " is very close 

I believe the reason of laryngismus stridulus being so 
constantly referred to teething is that the ricketty condi- 
tion retards the development of the teeth, and the medical 
practitioner refers the laryngismus to that which, like 
itself, is the consequence of constitutional disease. 

'^ If a child pass over the ninth month without teeth. 



140 ILSXUIA. 

yon should carefully inquire into its cause It may 

be^ and this is infinitely the most common cause of late 
dentition^ that the child is rickety/^ 

Many deaths^ therefore^ registered under the head of 
DBNTiTioir, may be referred to rickets. 

'' Catarrh and bbonchitis/' says Sir William, " are un- 
questionably the most common causes of death in rickets. 
The softening of the ribs rendering the mechanical power 
by which inspiration is performed so defective, that the 
impediment offered to the entrance of the air by the 
mucus in the bronchial tubes cannot be overcome ; and 
collapse of large portions of the lung follows. 

" This want of inspiratory power, and the consequent 
accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes, affords an 
explanation of the extraordinary mortality of measles, 
whooping cough, and bronchitis in ricketty subjects. 

Thus may we refer two more of the headings of the 
Registrar — measles and whoopino cough — to rickets. 

For similar reasons, and still more &om the intensity of 
the general cachexia and the corresponding defect in the 
vital force, rickets will be found to be the true cause of 
£fttality in many of the deatl^s registered under the name 

of FNEUHONIA. 

Then we have the deaths from childbirth 4*3 per week, 
and it is very interesting to trace out the influence of 
rickets in causing these miserable deaths. The mode of 
its operation is twofold. First, there is the large size of 
the head in the rickety foetus ; and, secondly, deformities 
of the pelvis in women who have been rickety in their 
childhood. On examining into the causes of death in 
childbirth, as carefully collated by Dr. R. Collins, of the 
Dublin lying-in hospital, I find that of eighty-one cases of 
death during parturition, thirty-two were due to rupture 
of the uterus, eleven to tedious or difficult labour. If we. 



'' 

I 



ANJBHIA. 141 

then^ inquire into the causes of rupture of the uterus and 
tedious or difficult labour, to which forty-three out of 
eighty-one deaths were due, we find that narrowing and 
deformity of the pelvis, and abnormal size of the child^s 
head, stand prominently forward in their importance ; and 
thus we are brought back to rickets as the chief cause of 
these deaths. 

But you will perhaps ask, how ansBmia is proved to be 
the cause of the deaths under these difierent headings, by 
proving that they are due to rickets? That is, in fact, 
the important question. The answer is this, that anaemia 
in the mother proctuees rickets in the child, and a/ncemia 
in the child may lead to rickets also. This may be as 
familiar to you all as it is to me ; but I will give you the 
authority of Sir William Jenner again, who has devoted 
great attention to this subject : — 

'^The health of the mother has a decided influence in 

the developement of rickets in the offspring Of 

this much, I am sure — that when the mother is in delicate 
health, in a state of which anosmia and general want of 
jpow&r form the prominent features, without being the 
subject of disease usually so-called, there the children are 
often in a very decided degree rickety, although the father 
is in robust health, and the hygienic conditions in which 
the children are placed are most favourable/^ '^ It is very 
common for the first two or three children to be free from 
any signs of rickets, and yet for every subsequent child to 
be rickety." 

^'Whatever external conditions are favourable to the 
formation of hydraemic blood in a child, seem to be favour- 
able to the development of rickets. 

^^ Albuminoid infiltration of the lymphatic glands, 
spleen, and other organs is by no means an uncommon 
cause of death in rickets. The two great features, during 



142 ANEMIA.. 

life^ of albuminoid infiltration of these organs in a young- 
child^ are emaciation and pallor ; the anosmia is often most 
remarkable/' 

You will not fail^ then^ to see at once the intimate 
connection between rickets and ansBmia^ and between 
ansBmia and that list of terrible names in the Registrar's 
Reports. 

I do not wish you to suppose that I attribute all the 
deaths under those headings to ansBmia : that would be a 
great mistake. But from an elaborate and careful analysis 
of such deaths^ I have founds and you may find^ that a 
very large^ a very remarkably large^ proportion of them 
are due to anaemia in the individual^ or to anaamia in 
a parent and rickets in the offspring. It is important 
to bear in mind^ that^ with the exception of hydrocephalus^ 
the diseases I have enumerated from the mortality-tables 
are extremely common every-day complaints — that they 
occur and terminate favourably thousands of times every 
year ; that it is only the fatal cases that come into our list^ 
and with which we are now concerned. And what I have 
endeavoured to show^ and what I wish to impress upon 
you is^ that we must look to anaBmia as the chief cause of 
this fatality ; that it is anaemia iu the individual or anas- 
mia in a parent that brings these remediable^ every-day 
complaints into the bills of mortality. 

When^ therefore^ we see anaemia establishing itself^ as 
a vestige of the diseases from which our convalescents 
have lately suffered, or in any other way, we must regard 
it as the grim harbinger of death in a vast family of 
diseases. 

The next example I shall give is Fatty degeneration 
which like the last does not appear in the Registrar's 
Repoi-ts. 



143 



FATTY DEOENEBATION. 



" 

1 



In the present day^ Oentlemen^ we have all learnt that 

something mach more than a general tendency to form 
fat^ or a general excess of fat in the blood is necessary to 
produce a local fatty degeneration/^— (Sir James Paget's 
Lecturer, Vol. I., p. 112). 

Every year throws new Hght on the physiology of the 
process by which this change is brought about; but of 
this it is not within the province of these Lectures to 
treat. I wish^ however^ to point out to you that the 
pathological condition termed fatty degeneration is to be 
regarded as a vestige of disease — a vestige of perverted 
assimilation^ either local or general^ and hence a vestige 
also of any diseases by which such perverted assimilation 
is produced. In the third series of Ouy's Hospital Beports 
(Vol. iii. 1857), Dr. Wilks has related a number of 
interestiDg cases of fatty degeneration, of which the only 
appreciable and probable causes were hasmorrhage, diar- 
rhoea, miasmata. In these cases the subjects were com- 
paratively young, the heart was the organ in which the 
diseased change was most marked, and the body gener- 
ally was neither fat nor wasted. 

Fatty degeneration appears to be especially prone to 
occur in tissues which have passed from a condition of 
active assimilation to one of comparatively inactive or 
feeble nutrition, by whatever cause this change may have 
been brought about. Thus, the muscular tissue is 
particularly subject to fatty degeneration; it is also 
peculiar for the vigour of its normal assimilation, and 
it is when this is rendered feeble that degeneration occurs. 
This appears to be the case whether the vigorous assimi- 
lation is hindered by arrest of function in the muscles, as 
in the case of paralyzed limbs, or by deficient supply of 



144 FATTT DEGENERATION. 

bloody as in disease of the nutrient arteries of a part^ or 
by a depraved condition of the blood supplied to the part, 
as in the case of persons who, after having led active 
muscular lives, gradually become ansemiated by passive 
haamorrhages. I have seen many instances of strong 
men, accustomed to vigorous country occupations, who, 
having become the subjects of bleeding hasmorrhoids, by 
which the blood lost its red globules, and nutrition became 
enfeebled, suffered from degeneration of their previously 
strong and vigorous hearts. Many other examples might 
be addaced of the degeneration of tissues when their 
assimilation is changed from a. vigorous to a feeble state. 
Thus we find, in watching the course of diseases of the 
heart, that the heart which has become hypertrophied in 
opposing some obstruction to the circulation during the 
active life of the individual, becomes degenerated when, 
in the further progress of the case, the patient is forced to 
relinquish active pursuits, and thus ceases to call upon 
the hypertrophied organ for the full exercise of its muscu- 
lar powei^. Thus, also, parts which have been inflamed 
are especially liable to degenerate, and fatty degeneration 
frequently takes place in organs deprived of their proper 
functions by disease, as in kidneys spoilt by Bright^s 
disease. Thus, also, the products of inflammation, when 
they have no farther functions to perform, are peculiarly 
subject to fatty degeneration. Without pressing the 
subject further, I think we shall all agree that fatty de- 
generation must be regarded as a vestige of disease, not 
as a disease in itself, and that in thus regarding it, we 
must often look beyond the defect in assimilation to the 
causes of that defect, in order to find the disease of which 
the degeneration is truly a vestige. 

I must now proceed to show to what a wide extent this 
vestige of disease acts as a cause of those deaths classed in 



TATTT DIGIKXKATION. 145 

the Begistrar's reports rmder the heads of a variety of dis- 



eases. 

rr 



The most interesting examples (of fatty degeneration)/^ 
says Sir James Paget, " are those of primary degeneration 
of blood-vessels. This has long been known in the afhero- 
matous disease, as it was called, of the larger arteries, the 
true nature of which, as a fatty and calcareous degenera- 
tion of the inner and, consecutively, of the middle arterial 
coat, was discovered by Mr. Gulliver (see Med. Chir. 
Transactions, Vol. XXVI.) The descriptions of this com- 
plaint by him and by Bokitansky have left nothing un- 
said that is yet known; but the observations are each 
year becoming more numerous and more interesting of 
similar changes in the minutest blood-vessels. Such 
changes are especially observable in the minutest cerebral 
vessels, and their importance in relation to apoplbxt of 
which they seem to be the most frequent precedent, can- 
not be overstated.'' — (iitd.. Vol. I. p. 139.) 

Dr. Wilks' experience has taught him that, ''In the* 
majority of cases of sanguineous apoplexy, disease of the 
blood-vessels exists.'' — {Lectures on Pathological Anatomy, 
1859.) 

Dr. Kirkes has shown {Med, Chir, Transactions, Vol. 
XXXV.) that PARALYSIS, consequent upon arrested circula- 
tion in some portion of brain, is frequently the result of 
the obstruction of healthy cerebral arteries by masses of 
fibrine carried into them, after being dislodged from the 
valves of the left side of the heart, or from some part of 
the arterial system. 

And Dr. Ormerod has pointed out that it is in the ca- 
chectic subjects, with feeble circulations, that such masses 
are likely to form in the heart, in the very persons, in fact, 
who are likely to be the subjects of fatty degeneration of 
this organ. — {Observations on the Olinical History and 

L 



146 FATTY D£G£M£KATION. 

Pathology of one form of PaMy Degeneration of the Heart, 
by E. L. Ormsbod, M.D. Medical Gazette, 1849.) 

And although Dr. Ormerod was not prepared at that 
time (1849) to consider the occurrence of fibrinous clots 
in the subjects of fatty degeneration to be more than a 
frequent coincidence^ we do not now doubt that the lan- 
guid circulation^ and the inefficient contractions of the 
heart in the subjects of fatty degeneration^ act^ together 
with other circumstances^ in causing these deposits of 
fibrine from the blood. 

Describing the appearances after death in fatal cases of 
MLiEiuM TREMENS, Dr. Wilks says, ''The body, as a rule, 
presents many degenerative changes, brought about by 
the intemperate habits. It is this alteration of the viscera, 
I think, to which death is owing. Delirium tremens is a 
recoverable affection until such changes have occurred in 
the tissues that improvement is no longer possible; and 
we then find in the body various morbid changes. These 
are mostly of HiefaMy kind, as all alcoholic drinks tend to 
this condition.'' — {Ibid,) 

In Anoina Pectobis, again, Dr. Wilks, in common with 
other observers, has found that ''the heart is usually fatty, 
and the coronary arteries ossified." — {Ibid.) 

"It is impossible,'' says Dr. Ormerod {Ibid.), "to read 
any collection of cases of angina pectoris without feel- 
ing how much further fatty degeneration goes to ex- 
plain the symptoms than does any other morbid change 
usually found on dissection." 

Sir James Paget classes the heart and arteries first among 
the frequent seats of fatty degeneration. — {Ibid., Vol. I., 
p. 116). 

Among the vessels of which the coats have been found 
degenerated are those of the lungs and placenta ; and pul- 
monary or uterine hasmorrhages may result from this state 
of the vessels. 



FATTY DEOKNBBATION. 147 

Against the extreme vital depression which accompanies 
such diseases as psbitonitis^ influenza^ and diabbh(£A^ 
the subjects of fatty degeneration have no resisting 
power; they are among the first to succumb} and 
thus fatty degeneration becomes a cause of death in 
these and other depressing diseases when they attack 
adults. 

Out of 164 deaths from Childbirth in the Dublin Hospi- 
tal^ during the seven years ending November^ 1826^ as 
recorded by Dr. B. CoUins^ I find thirty-two attributed to 
rupture of the uterus^ and eleven to tedious or difficult 
labour. Becent investigations into the causes of rupture 
of the uterus^ show that fatty degeneration of its walls is 
a most frequent if not a constant coincidence. 

Fatty degeneration of the uterus^ then^ is a cause of 
death in childbirth by producing or disposing to rupture 
of the organ ; but it has yet another influence on these 
deaths^ for we may be quite sure that a degree of degen- 
eration must often exists not sufficient to lead to rupture^ 
but quite sufficient to render the organ incompetent to 
vigorous muscular contraction^ even under the influence of 
unusual stimuli. And thus it may become the cause of 
those hopelessly tedious labours which^ as we have seen^ 
assist to swell the death-rate in parturition. 

Thus do we see that among the rational causes of dread 
that haunt the brain of the accoucheur during a tedious 
labour^ fatty degeneration of the uterus has a right to 
stand foremost. 

In Pneumonia, Dr. Wilks says that, in ^^ far the majority 
of fatal cases, some pre-existing and more chronic disease 
is found in some organ of the body.^' — {Ibid.) 

Speaking of the probabilities of death in pneumonia, 
Dr. Walshe has made the following very well-considered 
observation : — 

l2 



148 PATTY DBOENBRATION. 

" There are certain other circnnstances (besides treat- 
ment) beyond the control of the physician, which exercise 
a most indubitable influence on the issue (of pneumonia). 
Among these, the pre-ezistence of organic disease and the 
state of health generally of the individwil hold an important 
place. But of all the collateral conditions, age is the most 
important. While at the two extremities of life, in the 
new-bom infant and in the octogenarian, pneumonia is 
almost inevitably fatal, the mortality between the ages of 
six and twelve years scarcely exceeds two-and-a-half per 
cent." — {Ma/nv^l of Diseases of the Ohest, 2nd edition, 
p. 438.) 

To this I would add, that the octogenarian may be 
represented at any period of life by the subject of fatty 
degeneration. 

I need hardly remind you that, in protracted Chbonic 
Beonchitis there is no one feature more fearfully pro- 
gnostic of a fatal issue, sooner or later, than the co^ex- 
istence of fatty degeneration. 

In speaking of Senile Gangbbne, Sir James Paget says it 
occurs, ''as its name implies, in the old, and often in 
those who are old m structure, rather than in years ; it 

affects tissues already degenerate I think that, in 

some cases, its beginning may be when the progressive 
degeneration of the part has arrived at death. But, if 
this do not happen, some injury or disease, even a trivial 
one, kills that which was already nearly dead, as a severe 
injury might kill any part, however actively alive." — 
{Ibid., Vol. 1., p. 461.) 

Under the heads of Lives-disease, Jaundice, and Kid- 
net-disease, I may mention some interesting cases ex- 
amined by Rokitansky. (On Fatal Steatosis — FaMy 
Degeneration — of the Liver a/nd Kidneys,) 

" The cases referred to consisted in steatosis of the liver. 



FATTT DEOEKSBATION. 149 

accompanied by a high degree of steatosis of the kidneys. 
Their importance rests upon the possibihty of proving 
them to be parellel to the cases of acute atrophy of the 
liver^ and the analogous renal affection which co-exists 
with it. 

'^It is evident that in our cases we have. not to deal 
with that steatosis of the liver which occurs so commonly 
in the course of consuming suppurative processes^ but with 
fcdty livers, as they not rarely develope themselves to a 
high degree^ at the side of an abundant formation of fat 
in the areolar tissue^ without the disease being always 
attributable to gross feeding. 

" There exists thus a steatosis of the liver, occurring in 
individuals inclined to the formation of fat^ to which 
sooner or later a steatosis of the kidney is added^ both 
which diseases attain slowly and imperceptibly so high a 
degree that^ finally^ a cessation of the biliary and urinary 
secretion supervenes^ and^ after a slight degree of icterus^ 
death rapidly sets in from anadmia and a hasmorrhagic 
decomposition of the blood." — {Ranking^s Abstract, Vol. 
XXXI., p. 40.) 

Gentlemen, I might prolong this subject much further 
—so widely spread is the influence of this seemingly spon- 
taneous atrophy, this vestige of disease. I might give 
you quotations from reliable authorities to show in how 
many more diseases than I have yet referred to, the fatal- 
ity, is determined by fatty degeneration; but I should 
exhaust your patience and overstep our time. I will, 
therefore, conclude the list by simply enumerating the 
causes to which death was attributed in sixty-eight cases 
analysed by Dr. Quain, in all of which there was fatty 
degeneration. — {Med.-Ohir, Transactions, 1850.) 



150 PATTY DEGENERATION. 



LIST OF CAUSES TO WHICH DEATH WAS ATTRIBUTED IN 
SIXTY-BIGHT CASES OF FATTY DEGENERATION. 

Rupture of the heart. Cancrum oris. 

Exhaustion. Gradual decay. 

Coma. Lethargie. 

Pleuropneumonia. HsBmorrhage into the pericardium. 

Syncope anginosa. Cerebral haemorrhage. 

Cardiac apoplexy. Diarrhoea. 

Syncope. Gangrene of the intestines. 

I must briefly remind you, in the words of Sir James 
Paget, that ^^ Fatty degeneration of the heart often intro- 
duces unexpected dangers into the ordinary practice of 
surgery. It is, I believe, not rarely the cause of sudden 
death after operations. It is one of the conditions in which 
chloroform should be administered with more than ordinary 
caution. They who labour under it may be fit for all the 
ordinary events of a calm and quiet life, but they are 
unable to resist the storm of sickness, an accident, or an 
operation." — {Ibid., Vol. I., p. 129.) 

To sum up. Gentlemen, we have seen that this vestige 
of disease, fatty degeneration, may claim as its victims a 
certain number of deaths out of each of the following 
headings of the Registrar's report : — 



Apoplexy . 


26*0 deaths per week. 


Paralysis 


23-7 


9f » 


Delirium tremens a.nd 






intemperance . 


4-5 


9i }} 


Angina pectoris and 






other diseases of the 






heart 


31-9 


}} a 


Pneumonia . 


60-3 


99 99 


Diarrhoea 


17-5 


9} ii 



ABNOBHAI. PHYSIOIiOOICAL 8TATIS. 



151 



Mortification 


4*6 deaths per week 


Inflaenza 


. 31 


» 99 


Peritonitis . 


. 4-4 


»i 99 


Childbirth . 


. 4-3 


99 99 


Bronchitis . 


. 64-5 


99 99 


Janndice 


. 2-8 


99 99 


Ldrer disease 


. iro 


99 99 


Kidney disease . 


. 4-9 


99 99 



263*5 deaths per week ; 
oat of which fatty degeneration claims so large a share. 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

We pass on, Gentlemen, to another and most impor- 
tant branch of our subject. 

I must now speak more at length of those states of 
health to which I referred in my second Lecture, when I 
said that I should impress upon you that " they are inti- 
mately related to the definitely marked diseases'' — those 
states so puzzling to the young practitioner, because they 
do not fall under any of the nosological headings which 
have been his landmarks in the study of disease — ^those 
states which, although perhaps familiar in their aspect to 
most old practitioners, are, nevertheless, most ineflBciently 
treafed, or not treated at all, because their interpretation 
is so little understood, and because their importance is not 
appreciated conditions which are not recognised as disease, 
hut which certainly are not health, and which I propose to 
class under the general heading of " Abnormal Physiolo- 
gical States." I will gives you some examples of what 
I mean. 

A family of four children were exposed to the infection 



162 ABNOBHAL FHT8I0L0GICAL STATES. 

of measles at the same time^ and from the same som*ce ; 
all of them were supposed to be in health at the time. One 
had the measles simply and slightly ; one had a severe 
attack of pneumonia combined with it ; one indicated a 
disposition to typhoid symptoms^ and was completely 
oppressed by the morbid poison; a fourth lingered in 
convalescence^ and was found to have become the subject 
of a deposit of tubercles in the lungs. 

A party of friends, all apparently in what is called 
health, met at a funeral ; they went together into a damp 
unwarmed cemetery chapel on a raw winter's day, and 
returned together, one and all complaining that they had 
taken " a severe chill." They dined together and went to 
their homes. One suffered an attack of rheumatic fever ; 
one had anasarca; one jaundice; another bronchitis; a 
fifth pneumonia; a sixth diarrhoea; a seventh had ery- 
sipelas; and another had pleurisy. One coughed up a 
quantity of blood ; while the rest got a restless night, and 
a cold in the head, and thought no more about it. These 
are no imaginary stories; analogous cases frequently occur 
within the experience of medical men in large practice. 
But what is their interpretation? Why did the same 
cause — the chill — ^produce such different effects, under 
external conditions, apparently the same? No doubt, 
the first answer which suggests itself is, that the circum- 
stances, so apparently the same, must have been really 
different. Well, Gentlemen, I will admit that, as the first 
step towards solving the difficulty. But I will insist that 
in a given case, the cause, so far as the chill is concerned, 
shall be the same in each individual; and the circum- 
stances, so far as they are external, shall be the same 
for each individual. Nevertheless, these different effects 
shall be produced ; and the reason we shall find to be 
this, that there are other causes and other circumstances, 



ABNOSMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 153 

different in each case^ existing within the organisms of the 
sufferers, with which the one cause — the chill — ^has to com- 
bine in producing its effect, and that the effect is the 
result of this combination of causes, different in each indi- 
vidual. 

Some of you, perhaps, will say that this simply means 
that the different effects are explained by the different 
idiosyncrasies of the individual. And I must warn you 
against adopting a word as the explanation of a difficulty, 
lest in doing so, you fail to investigate the multitude of 
facts which that word may represent. I have no objection 
to the word, so long as you bear in mind that you must 
be able to explain what it means, if it is to be accepted as 
any explanation at all. Professor Bernard has spoken 
well on this subject: "I discovered,'^ he says, ^^that 
section of large divisions of the sympathetic nerve was 
apparently unattended with the slightest inconvenience, 
as long as the health of these animals (rabbits) remained 
perfect .... but as soon as a general debilitation of the 
system arose from want of proper nourishment, acute 
inflammation was produced in the organs deprived of ner- 
vous influence. We had, therefore, succeeded in artifici- 
ally creating particular idiosyncracies in these animals, 
and could predict with certainty that, as soon as health 
failed, disease would arise at a given point. Morbid 
predispositions must, therefore, be viewed in the light 
of peculiar physiological conditions." And he concludes 
thus: "Let me advise you not to consider idiosyn- 
crasies in the light of mysterious powers residing within 
the depths of our organs, nor as entirely novel functions 
superadded, as it were, to those which already exist. 
They must be viewed as mere manifestations of the or- 
dinary laws of physiology .'' — (Bernard, Lecture F., Medi- 
cal Times and Gazet 



154 ABNORMAL PHTSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

Healthy Gentlemen^ is the normal physiological state; 
and peculiarities in^ or divergencies from this condition 
mnst be regarded as greater or less deviations from health, 
(abnormal physiological states) in proportion as they pre- 
dispose to contingencies which increase the probabihties 
of deaih before ths normal term. 

There are very few persons who pass through life in 
the normal physiological state. At some period of life 
almost every individual diverges, more or less, from this 
state in one direction or another ; and during that diver- 
gence, although escaping an attack of what is recognized 
as disease, he certainly is not in health ; and in almost 
every individual there is a tendency to diverge in some 
particular direction, during which divergence — i.e., during 
that period of deranged health— hid is particularly prone 
to certain classes of disease. In the case I have taken 
as an example of the effects of chill for instance : — ^the 
man who had rheumatic fever, was already surcharged 
with uric acid. He who had jaundice was suffering from 
defective excretion by the liver, requiring only a certain 
increase in the defect, or of the demands upon the secret- 
ing function, to throw the secretion back into the blood. 
The patient who had anasarca was suffering either from 
hydrasmia, or from defect in the excreting powers of the 
kidneys. The sufferer from bronchitis, I attended myself: 
he had chronic congestion of the bronchi, from repeated 
former attacks of bronchitis, and the circulation through 
his chest was defective, from a feeble degenerated 
heart ; but he had been accustomed to pass as a man in 
health competent to perform the onerous duties of a tax- 
collector and county-court agent. He who had an attack 
of diarrhoea, found in his bile ducts or in the intestinal 
mucous membrane a safety valve, by which he was saved 
from either anasarca, jaundice, or rheumatic fever. The 



ABNOSMAL PHYSIOLOaiCAL 8TATBS. 155 

subjects of erysipelas and pneumonia^ and the man who 
had* haemoptysis^ were already suffering from depraved 
states of the blood, or of the organs to which it was deter- 
mined ; and from which, in the last two cases, it escaped 
in different quantities; while the patient who was attacked 
with pleurisy, was surcharged with urea from defective 
action of his kidneys. 

These several persons, therefore, were suffering, when 
they considered themselves in health — before the occur- 
rence of the chill — from abnormal physiological states to 
which we can attribute the particular form of the disease 
whicn was set up, by the addition, in each case, of one and 
the same cause, viz., the chill. — But some escaped unhurt ! 
Because in them the physiological state was sufficiently 
normal that a resisting and reactionary power existed, 
which was ccmpeteut speedily to restore the functions of 
the organs subjected to the shock of the chill, and to 
make them compensate for the temporary arrest by in- 
creased activity. 

I have chosen this group of somewhat crude examples 
on purpose, that their meaning may be the more perspicu- 
ous. They, most of them, exemplify states of health de- 
pendent on the fluids and excretory organs of the body. 
It would be easy to bring many examples of degraded 
health consequent on disease attributable to the nervous 
system. 

* ^ * * * 

I assume, then. Gentlemen, that (in the course of these 
lectures) I have sufficiently demonstrated that the vestiges 
of disease stand first am^Tig the causes of death. 

I have shown that so long as these vestiges exist they 
are causes of defect in the vital force and thus act as fact- 
ors of the essential and of the predisposing causes of fresh 
attacks of disease. 



156 ABNORMAL FHTSIOLOaiCAL STATES. 

I have shown that the diseases^ from which these ves- 
tiges result^ are bat the manifestations of pre-existent 
physiological states, to which, by some means, the last 
condition has been supplied, necessary to complete the 
conditions of existence proper to the disease, which then is 
developed in its characteristic features. 

I have shown that these abnobmal physiological statbs 
are indicated by the various conditions of impaired, gene- 
ral health, ^^ conditions not recognised as disease, but 
which certainly are not health." 

The sum of it is this : — 

1. The majority of diseases which we see excited by the 
various accidents of life are but the manifestations of pre- 
existent abnormal physiological states, which required only 
this last condition (the accident of life) to complete their 
development into the characteristic features of disease. 

2. Those conditions '^not recognised as disease, but 
which certainly are not health," are the faint expressions 
of these morbid physiological states, while still deficient in 
the condition necessary to complete their development 
into the recognised features of disease. 

3. The multifarious and anomalous functional derange- 
ments which puzzle the physician, and make martyrs of 
the patients, depend, for the most part, upon the influence 
exerted by these morbid physiological states over thel^r- 
dinary incidents of animal existence, which are thereby 
modified, coloured, and distorted. 

4. During the whole of the time that the physiological 
conditions are disturbed, there is a greater or less defect 
in the vital force, and this defect, therefore, exists at a 
period anterior to what are usually understood as structu- 
ral changes. 

I have shown that fchese abnormal physiological states, 
recognisable under various forms of impaired health and 



ABNOBMAL PHT8I0L00ICAL STATES. 157 

attended by a legion of anomalous symptoms^ may be 
traced back to still earlier periods in their history^ when 
they require the greatest vigilance of the physician to 
detect any deviation from the standard of normal health. 

Then I endeavoured to show in what direction we must 
look for the causes of these earUest and most occult devia- 
tions from the normal physiological state. 

With this intention I pointed out that the " conditions 
of life^^ and the '^ vestiges of disease'^ have a direct influence 
on the vital force ; that the alterations in it are trans- 
missible to the germs of a succeeding generation ; and 
that thus defects of force may be due to abnormal condi- 
tions of life in the individual^ and to the vestiges^ or ves- 
tiges of vestiges of disease in an ancestor. And I wish to 
draw your marked attention in this place to the fact^ that 
it is to these defects transmitted from an ancestor, and to the 
conditions of life in the individual, that we must especially 
look for the causes of those first insidious deviations from 
health, which I have called ^'abnormal physiological 
states.^^ 

As I have shown that these incipient and insidious 
degradations of the vital force exist at a period anterior to 
such changes as are understood by the terms structural 
and organic^ I think you will now understand why I 
said in my last Lecture^ that there could be no fact in 
Medicine of greater practical importance than this. My 
reason was — ^that the very dependence upon the conditions 
of life which exposes the force in the individual to de- 
gradation under ^unfavourable conditions^ must render it 
amenable to elevation under the influence of conditions 
which are favourable. And thus we learn that there is a 
possibility of cure in states that would otherwise be beyond 
the reach of treatment. 



APPENDIX. 



I. 

{Leading Artide from tJie hkiiCf^y January ls< 1H70 referred to 

at p, 7.) 

After a great many fluctnations, professional opinion 
upon the question of alcoholic stimulation in disease appears 
to hare recentlj achiered some real progress towards the 
establishment of satisfactory principles. There are still very 
wide dirergencies between different authorities, and we fear 
that there is still a good deal of extreme and irrational practice, 
both in the direction of excessive stimulation, and of the op- 
posite fault of an unreasonable fear of the remedy. But it 
seems to us that the outlines of a greatly improved knowledge, 
both of the therapeutic powers, and the capacity for mischief 
which alcohol possesses, may now be discerned. 

In the first place, as regards acute diseases attended with 
febrile phenomena, three things are tolerably plain. The first, 
is, that alcohol when it acts well, acts as an antiphlogistic 
stimulant ; that is to say, it lowers abnormally high tempeiu- 
tnre, it reduces the frequency of the pulse, and, while raising 
nervous power, it calms , those disturbances of the nervous 
system which attend, if they are not caused by, the elevated 
temperature of the blood in pyrexia. The second great fact is, 
that there are the utmost difierences between diflerent pyrexial 
patients as to their capacity for receiving benefit in this way ; 
that a large number of persons, especially among the young 
and previously robust, do best without any alcohol ; and that 
among those to whom it is beneficial, there are some for whom 
three ounces of wine per diem is fully the physiological and 
therapeutical equivalent of twenty-four ounces given to another 



160 APPENDIX I. 

and smaller class of patients; and that nothing bat careful 
tentative use of the remedy can tell, in any particular case, 
whether it is needeed, and, if so, in what quantities. In short, 
that all generalisations to the effect that 70U mast, or must not, 
give wine by ounces, or by bottles, in fevers or in inflammations 
generally, are worthless and misleading. The third settled fact 
is this, that it is often in those cases where alcohol used (on 
purely theoretical grounds) to be thoaght most dangerous — viz.^ 
in cases with very high temperature and flashed face — ^that it 
produces its best effects ; and that to pour large quantities of 
stimulants into a fever patient simply because he is pale, and 
has a small pulse, is an unwarrantable proceeding. 

The above are certainties and the following are 'probabilities* 
It is probable that alcohol owes part of its influence in fevers 
to an antiseptic agency, by which it destroys the activity of cer- 
tain bodies — call them organisms, or not, as you please — ^by 
means of which the contagium sets up the febrile disturbance 
within the blood. In the case of inflammation, it is probable 
that alcohol, when it acts well, does so in part because it stimu- 
lates the sympathetic and contracts the arterioles, and in part 
interferes with the migration of blood-corpuscles through the 
vascular walls, as Binz and his pupils have shown that quinine 
can also do. It is probable that so far as alcohol can be applied 
to these purposes within the organism, it is of unmixed benefit. 
And there is much reason to believe that the singular differ- 
ences between different individuals, as to the quantity of alcohol 
they can bear, depend on some unexplained difference in the 
respective rapidity with which alcohol is oxidised in the blood 
in different persons. For it is now known with certainty, on 
the one hand, that nearly the whole, even of a poisonous dose, 
is always oxidised in the body, and on the other hand, that the 
presence of large quantities of unchanged alcohol for any 
length of time in the blood, inevitably poisons the nervous sys- 
tem. The antiseptic action, and the influence on the migrative 
tendency of the corpuscles, are most likely produced immediate- 
ly that the alcohol mingles with the blood ; it probably de- 



APPENDIX. 161 

pends on the subseqaent process of oxidation whether the 
general effect on the patient will be good or bad. One thing is 
certain : if signs of narcotism— i.e., paralysis of the nervous 
system — are produced, the alcohol is doing harm and most be 
immediately diminished or stopped. 

As regards chronic diseases, we are sony to obserre that 
there is rery much less of intelligent progress in medical 
opinion than in the case of acute diseases. It is much to be re- 
gretted that a large number, even of highly-educated practi- 
tioners, will persist in acting on the assumption that in non- 
febrile diseases the amount of alcohol to be administered ought 
to be measured by the degree of debility, merely as such. The 
direct and very mischievous corollary of this is the practice, un- 
fortunately daily increasing, of prescribing stimulants with la- 
vish profusion in those numerous nervous affections to which 
weakly persons (more especially women) are prone. It is our 
duty, as medical journalists, to raise our Toice to the utmost 
against this tendency. We are no bigots against alcohol ; and 
we are heartily sick of the unthinking abuse which has been la- 
vished on what it is the fashion to call "indiscriminate stimu- 
lation in acute disease." We declare our belief that the real 
mischief lies at the door of those who are indiscriminate (be- 
cause they are unthinking and illogical) iu their prescription 
of alcohol for dchilitrj, merely as sfoch. It is no figure of speech, 
but the literal truth, when we say that hundreds of neuralgic, 
hysteric, and epileptic patieni^ have been driven into drunken- 
ness or lunacy, or both, by the careless folly of advisers, who 
had no better reason for the prescription of large doses of alco- 
hol than the fact that these diseases are attended with nervous 
weakness as they undoubtedly are. The assumption involv- 
ed — ^that so much ingested alcohol is necessarily so much 
added nervoas strength — is so g^oss a fallacy that no one 
would assent to it if expressed in plain words. Yet we con- 
stantly see it acted upon. We repeat with all the energy of 
which we are capable, that it is a grave scandal and mischief 
that medical men should endanger in this serious way the 



102 APPENDIX. 

powers of moral resistence of women and other weak persons 
while basing their practice upon ideas that are illogical and an- 
tenable ; and we trust that a reform in this respect will im- 
mediately be commenced. 



II. 
FEOM THE PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY No. 120, 1870. 

Experiments on the effects of Alcohol (ethyl Alcohol) on 
THE HUMAN BODY, By E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S., Professor 
of Hygiene in Army Medical School, and Count Cyprian 
WoUowicz, M.D., Assistant Surgeon, Army Medical Staff, 

As a knowledge of the physiological effects of alcohol on 
the human body is a matter of great importance, and as 
previous observations leave some points in doubt, we took the 
opportunity which the willingness and zeal of a very intelligent 
healthy soldier afforded us of investigating this subject. 

In order not to lengthen the paper, we have given only our 
own observations, without referring to those of others. 

The plan of observation was as follows :--For twenty- six 
days the man remained on a diet precisely similar as to food 
and times of meals in every respect, except that for the first 
eight days he took only water (in the shape of coffee, tea, and 
simple water) ; for the next six days he added to this diet rec- 
tified spirit, in such proportion that he took in divided quanti- 
ties on the first day one fluid ounce (=28*4 cub. centims.) of 
absolute alcohol ; on the second day two fluid ounces ; on the 
third day four ounces, and on the fifth and sixth days eight 
ounces on each day. He then returned to water for six days, 
and then for three days took on each day half a bottle (=7l2 
ounces, or 341 c. c.) of fine brandy, containing 48 per cent, of 
alcohol. Then for three days more he returned to water. 



APPENDIX. 16S 

There were thus fire periods^ viz. of water-drinking, alcohol 
water, brandy, water. 

Before commenciiig the experiments, the man, who had been 
accastomed to take one or two pints of beer daily, abstained al- 
together firom any alcoholic liquid for ten days. 

This man, F. B., is twenty-eight years of age, 5 feet 6 inches 
in height, and his nsnal weight is IS*! or 136 lbs. He is finely 
formed, with little fat, and with largely developed powerful 
muscles ; he has a clean smooth skin, a clear bright eye, good 
teeth, and is in all respects in perfect health. He is very intelli- 
gent, and assisted us so much that we are quite certain that 
there has not been a mistake even for a minute in the time of 
taking the temperatures and passing the urine. As he had 
always been accustomed to smoke, we thought it proper to al- 
low him half an ounce of tobacco daily, for fear the depriva- 
tion of it might disturb his health. 

In addition to the experiments recorded in this paper, we 
tested the accuracy of his vision, and the muscular power be- 
fore and during the use of alcohol ; but as we could not detect 
any difference, we do not give the experiments. 

Our object being to test the dietetic effects of alcohol, we 
gave it in small and large quantities, but avoided producing any 
extreme symptoms of narcotism. (Here follow in the ori- 
ginal paper twenty-seven pages of carefully detailed experi- 
ments). 

GENEEAL CONCLUSIONS. 

1. One and two fluid ounces (28*4 c.c. and 56'8 c.c.) of abso- 
[ute alcohol given in divided quantities in 24 hours to a per- 
fectly healthy man seemed to increase the appetite. Four fluid 
ounces lessened it considerably; and larger quantities almost 
entirely destroyed it. On the last day of alcohol the man was 
three quarters of an hour eating 8 ounces of bread, and could 
hardly do so. Had he been left to his own wishes the amount 
of food taken would have been much diminished. 

It appears, therefore, that, in this individucd^ some point fiear 

m2 



164 APPENDIX. 

2,jkM owncea of absolute alcohol is the limit of the useful action 
on appetite ; but it is possible that if the alcohol had been con- 
tinned a smaller quantity would hare lessened appetite. 

In other healthy persons it may be different fix>m the above ; 
in most cases of disease, when digestion is weakened, it seems 
probable that a much smaller amount of alcohol would destroy 
appetite. 

2. The average number of beats of the heart in 24 hours (as 
calculated from 8 observations made in 14 hours) during the 
first or water period was 106,000 ; in the alcoholic period it 
was 127,000 or about 21,000 more; and in fche brandy period 
it was 131,000 or 25,000 more. 

The highest of the daily means of the pulse observed during 
the first or water period was 77*5 ; but on this day two obser- 
vations are deficient. The next highest daily mean was 77 
beats. 

If instead of the mean of the 8 days or 73*57 we compare 
the mean of this one day, mz.^ 77 beats per minute, with the 
alcoholic days, so as to be sure not to overestimate the action 
of the alcohol, we find : — 

On the 9th day, with 1 fluid ounce of alcohol, the heart beat 
4,300 times more. 

On the 10th day, with 2 fluid ounces, 1872 times more. 

On the 11th day, with 4 fluid ounces, 12,960 times more. 

On the 12th day, with 6 fluid ounces, 30,672 times more. 

On the 1 3th day, with 8 fluid ounces, 23,904 times more. 

On the 14th day, with 8 fluid ounces, 25,488 times more. 

But as there was ephemeral fever on the 12th day, it is right 
to make a deduction, and to estimate the number of beats in 
that day as midway between the 11th and 13th days, or 
18,432. Adopting this, the mean daily excess of beats during 
the alcoholic days was 14,492, or an increase of rather more 
than 13 per cent. 

The first day of alcohol gave an excess of 4 per cent., and 
the last of 23 per cent., and the mean of these two gives al- 
most the same percentage of excess as the mean of the 6 days. 



APPENDIX. 165 

Admitting that each beat of khe heart was aa strong daring 
the alcoholic period as in the water period (and it was really 
more powerful), the heart on the last two days of alcohol was 
doing one-fifbh more work. 

Adopting the lowest estimate which has been given of the 
daily work done by the heart, viz. as equal to 122 tons lifted 
one foot, the heart daring the alcoholic period did daily work in 
excess eqaal to lifting 15.8 tons one foot, and in the last two 
days did extra work to the amoaat of 24 tons lifted as far. 

The period of rest for the heart was shortened, thoagh 
perhaps not to sach an extent as would be inferred from the 
number of beats ; for each contraction was sooner over. 

The heart on the fifth and sixth days after alcohol ^as left 
of^ and apparently at the time when the last traces of alcohol 
were eliminated, showed in the sphygmographic tracings signs 
of unusual feebleness ; and, perhaps in consequence of this, 
when the brandy quickened the heart again, the tracings show 
a more rapid contraction of the ventricles, but less power than 
in the alcoholic period. The brandy acted, in fact, on a heart 
whose nucrition had not been perfectly restored. 

The peripheral circulation was accelerated and the vessels 
were enlarged ; and the effect was so marked as to show that 
this is an important influence for good or for evil when alcohol 
is used. 

Beferring only to this healthy man, it is clear that the 
amount of alcohol the heart will bear without losing its 
healthy sphygmographic tracing is small, and it must be 
supposed that some disease of heart or vessels would eventually 
follow the overaction produced by large doses of alcohol. 

3. Although large doses of alcohol lessened appetite, they 
did not appear to impede primary digestion, as far as this 
could be judged of by the sensations of the man; nor did they 
seem to check the nortnal chemical changes in the body which 
end in the elimination of nitrogenous excreta, of phosphoric 
acid, and of free acidity. In other words, we were unable to 
trace either the good or the evil ascribed to alcohol in this di- 



166 APPENDIX. 

rection ; it neither depressed these chemical changes nor obvi- 
ously increased them ; it neither saved the tissues nor exhaust- 
ed them ; and even in the period of ephemeral fever its effects 
were negative. 

Bnt, of course, in these experiments we were not dealing 
with diseased tissues, nor with stractnres altered in composition 
by long-continned excess of alcohol. The results in sach cases 
might be different; and it may be desirable to repeat that 
though appetite was lessened, the amount of food taken was 
the same each day. 

4. Neither pure alcohol nor brandy, in the quantities given, 
lessened the temperature ; in other words, they did not arrest 
the chemical changes which produce animal heat, or lessen the 
processes which regulate its amount, any more than they influ- 
enced nitrogenous tissue-change. Alcohol in no way influ- 
enced the rise of temperature during the attack of ephemeral 
fever ; it neither lowered nor increased it. This appears to us 
conclusive against the proposal to use alcohol as a reducer of 
febrile heat. (See Appendix, No. 1.) 

On the other hand it is not clear that alcohol increased the 
temperature ; it produced subjective feelings of warmth iu the 
stomach, in the face, round the loins, and over the shoulders ; 
but at the time when these were felt (for about one hour after 
tolerably large doses) the thermometer in the axilla and rectum 
showed no rise. This is best seen by comparing the two 
o'clock observations, which were taken about half an hour after 
dinner. The feelings result from the enlargement of the ves- 
sels and the greater flow of blood through them ; so, also, the 
ephemeral fever was decidedly not made worse by it. 

6. An effect on the nervous system was not proved by any 
evidence of increase or decline in the amount of phosphoric 
acid ; but there were marked subjective feelings ; and possibly 
also the increased action of the heart was a nervous condition, 
as the short contractions of the ventricle were like those ascrib- 
ed to alterations in the nervous currents. The feelings which 
were produced by four fluid ounces daily, and in a still higher 



APPENDIX. 



167 



degree by the larger qaantities of alcohol, pi-oved that narcot- 
ism was produced. There was no exhilaration, but a degree of 
heavineis, indisposition to exertion, and loss of cheer folness and 
alacrity ; there was slight headache, and e^en some torpor and 
sleepiness. A.11 these effects were more marked with brandy. 
The commencement of narcotism was therefore produced in 
this man by some quantity much less than 4 fluid ounces, and 
probably nearer 2. It was nearly this amount which also 
commenced to destroy the appetite ; and it may also be ob- 
served that a considerable rise in the frequency of the pulse 
occurred on the third day of alcohol, when 4 ounces were taken, 
whereas on the days with one or two ounces the pulse, though 
quickened, was so in a much less degree. 

Putting therefore these points together, viz. that the obvious 
effect on the nervous system (i.e, narcotism), the loss of appe- 
tite, and a great rise in the quickness and frequency of the 
heart's beats occurred at the same time, it seems fair to conclude 
that there must be a relation between the phenomena, or, in 
other words, that all were owing to nervous implication. 

It appears, then, clear that any quantity over two ounces of 
absolute alcohol daily would certainly do harm to this man ; 
but whether this, or even a smaller quantity, might not be 
hurtful if it were continued day after day, the experiments do 
' not show. It is quite obvious that alcohol is not necessary for 
him; that is, that every function was perfectly performed 
without alcohol, and that even one ounce in twenty-four hours 
produced a decided effect on his heart, which was not necessary 
for his health, and perhaps, if the effect continued, would even- 
tually lead to alterations in circulation, and to degeneration of 
tissues. It is not difficult to say what would be excess for 
him ; but it is not easy to decide what would be moderation ; it 
is only certain that it would be something under two fluid 
ounces of absolute alcohol in twenty-four hours. 

It will be seen that the general result of our experiments is 
to confirm the opinions held by physicians as to what must be 
the indications of alcohol both in health and disease. The 



168 APPBNDIX. 

effects on appetite and on circalation are the practical points to 
seize ; and if we are correct in oar inferences, the commence- 
ment of narcotism marks the point when both appetite and 
circulation will begin to be damaged. As to the metamor- 
phosis of nitrogenons tissues or to animal heat, it seems 
improbable that alcohol in quantities that can be properly used 
iu diet has any effect ; it appears to us unlikely (in the face of 
the chemical results) that it can enable the body to perform 
more work on less food, though by quickening a failing heart it 
may enable work to be done which otherwise could uot be so. 
It may then act like the spur in the side of a horse, eliciting 
force, though not supplying it. 

The employment of alcohol in health and disease is so great 
a subject that we should have felt tempted to ezteod these re- 
marks to some points of medical practice, had it been desirable 
to do so in this place. We will only say that .while we recog- 
nize in these experiments the great practical use of alcohol in 
rousing a failing appetite, exciting a feeble heart, and accelera- 
ting a languid capillary circulation, we have been strongly im- 
pressed with the necessity for great moderation and caution. 
In spite of our previous experience iu the use of alcohol and 
brandy, we were hardly prepared for the ease with which appe- 
tite may be destroyed, the heart unduly excited, and the capil- 
lary circulation improperly increased. Considering its daily 
and almost universal use, there is no agent which seems to us 
to require more caution and more skill to obtain the good and 
to avoid the evil which its use entails. 

We wish to guard ourselves against the supposition that in 
speaking of alcohol and brandy we refer at all to wine and 
beer, which contain substances in addition to alcohol, which 
may make their action in nutrition somewhat different. 

FEOM THE PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY, No. 123, 1870. 

In the Proceedings of the Royal Society (No. 120) is an ac- 
count of some experiments with pure alcohol and brandy on a 
healthy man. This paper is intended as a continuation, with 



APPENDIX, 169 

the snbstitution in the experiments of red Bordeaux wine (claret) 
for alcohol and brandy. The same man was the subject of the 
experiments, and he was placed on precisely the same diet as is 
recorded in the former paper. 

The experiments were continued for 30 days, the man 
having abstained from any alcoholic beverage for 16 days pre- 
viously. During the first 10 days, water only was taken at 
dinner, during the next 10 days red Bordeaux wine was substi- 
tuted for the water ; 10 fluid ounces (284 cub. centims.) being 
given on the first 5 days, and 20 fluid^ounces (568 cub. cen- 
tims.) on the last 5 days. The wine was taken at dinner time, 
at a quarter past 1 o'clock. In the last 10 days water was 
again given. 

The wine was a good claret, as it was thought best to use a 
superior wine ; it was Haut Brion wine of second growth, of 
the vintage of 1863, and was sold in London at the price of 
60s. per dozen. It contained 11 per cent, of alcohol. The 
free acidity was equal to about 3 grains per ounce of tartaric 
acid (CaR^O^); the total solids amounted to 21*76 grammes, 
and the fire-proof salts to 2*359 grammes per litre. Of this 
amount of salts 2*027 grammes were soluble, and *332 insolu- 
ble. In the former, phosphoric acid and chlorine were present 
ill the amounts '145 and '106 gramme per litre respectively; 
the insoluble salts contained only '0175 gramme of phosphoric 
acid per litre. In the 10 ounces of wine there were therefore 
only 0*7 grain of phosphoric acid, and 0*46 grain of chlorine. 

The ash was intensely alkaline, and, when neutralized with 
standard acid, the alkalinity was found to be equal to 1*679 
grammes of tartaric acid (O4H6O6) per litre. 

Only two circumstances (except the taking of wine) were 
diflerent in this set of experiments as compared with the 
former. 

The first experiments were made in February and March, 
1870, when the weather was very cold ; the present were made 
in May and June in very hot and dry weather. The only 
influence we could trace to this altered condition of climate was 



170 APPENDIX. 

that the amoimt of water allowed was insufficient, and the man 
suffered some discomfort from thirst. We oould not perceive 
.that any effect was produced on the nitrogenoas elimination ; 
certainly there was no diminution. 

The other alteration was that the man had gained 4 Ihs. in 
weight, and was still gaining a little when the experiments 
were commenced ; he continued to do so slowly until the 24th 
day, when his health began to give way and he lost weight. 

The experiments included the number of the pulse (taken in 
the recumbent position) every 2 hours from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., 
tracings of the pulse and respirations, the temperature of the 
axilla every 2 hours from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., the temperature of 
the rectum four times a day (the observations being taken 
with the same thermometers as on the former occasion), the 
amounts of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, chlorine and free 
acidity of the urine, and the weight, and in the two cases the 
amount of nitrogen in the stools. (Here follow in the original 
paper fourteen pages of carefully detailed experiments). 



GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. 

1. The general results of these experiments are in all re- 
spects identical with the experiments on alcohol and brandy, 
that is to say, there was a marked effeAt on the heart, coincid- 
ing tolerably well in amount with the effect produced by pure al- 
cohol in the former experiments ; there was no unequivocal 
alteration of temperature in the axilla or rectum, no alteration in 
the elimination of nitrogen, for the increase in the last period 
cannot be credited to the direct effect of the wine ; no alteration 
in the phosphoric acid of the urine ; some augmentation of the 
free acidity of the urine ; no alteration of the alvine discharges. 
In other words, claret-wine in the above quantities cannot so 
far be distinguished in its effect from pure alcohol. Its most 
marked effect, the increase of the heart's action, must be 
ascribed to the alcohol, in great measure, though the ethers 
may play some slight pai't. 



APPENDIX. 171 

Bat it would be going too far to assert that the dietetic 
effects of red Bordeaux wine and of dilute alcohol are identical. 
The difference between them must probably be sought in their 
effects on primary digestion and assimilation, delicate and 
subtle influences which experiments like those recorded in the 
paper do not touch. The influence of the sugar, of the salts, 
and of the acidity must also be appreciated by other methods. 
The jnan himself affirmed that the wine agreed with him better 
than the alcohol or brandy, but the large quantity he took of 
these last fluids vitiates the comparison. 

These experiments on wine enabled us to define somewhat 
better than the previoufl trials what might be considered 
moderation for this man. The 10 ounces of wine, containing 
about 1 fiuid ounce of pure alcohol, did not cause the least 
unpleasant feeling of heat or flushing. The 20 ounces (con- 
taining almost 2 fluid ounces of alcohol) were manifestly too 
much. He felt hot and uncomfortable, was flushed, the face 
was somewhat congested, and he was a little drowsy. More- 
over, as already mentioned, alcohol then began to appear in the 
urine. Therefore he ought certainly not to take much more 
than 1 fluid ounce of absolute alcohol in 24 hours. 

With regard to the propriety of this healthy man taking 
any alcohol, we have no hesitation in saying he would be 
better without it. His heart naturally acts quickly and 
strongly enough ; alcohol increases its action too much, and 
might lead on to alteration in its condition, or to injury of 
vessels, if any degeneration were to take place in them. This 
man had gone through the Abyssinian campaign, and stated 
that when the force was without rum, owing to deficiency of 
transport beyond Antalo, he had in no way felt the want of the 
stimulant, though some of his comrades did. This seems to 
confirm our opinion, that alcohol for him is not a necessity, 
and indeed is not desirable. 



172 APPENDIX. 



m. 



Letter by the Author on London Noise and London Sleep, 
published in (he Times, August ISth, 1869. 

To THE Editor of the Times. 

. Sir, — The London season is over once more, and everyone is 
harrying to get a dash of sea water or of mountain air, befpre 
returning to London work. Brain-fag, nervous exhaustion, 
and worry are the universal complaints ; and who can wonder 
at it? For where and when in this great city I should 
like to be told, can anyone secure six hours of undisturbed 
sleep ? 

If insanity increases, if doctors are more busy every year 
with diseases of the nervous system, if men and women wear out 
faster and faster, who can wonder, if he will take the trouble 
to consider how utterly our municipal arrangements ignore 
the necessity for sleep ? 

It is time, indeed, that we turned our attention to this vital 
question, upon which hangs not only the comfort and happiness 
of our best men and women of the day, but the actual value of 
their mental work, the continued sanity of their minds, and the 
mental calibre of their progeny. I am not the only member of 
my profession who has long desired to bnng this matter into 
public notice; far otherwise. Your columns might easily be 
filled day by day with the sore experiences of medical men on 
this point But I see the evil increasing year by year, and I 
cannot longer keep silent when I see " holiday tasks" set to 
thinking men, to rob them of the only chance they had left of 
recreation and rest. 

If some of us are to be doomed to spend the recess in di- 
gesting education Bills, and in speculations on the value of 
clipped sovereigns, at least let some others of us consider the 
value of a little sleep. 

This is a very simple question, and the evil appears to be 
susceptible of a simple remedy. It is a question of police; and 



<ii 



APPENDIX. 173 

attention being onoe prominently called to its importance there 
can be no excuse for its being longer neglected. The police 
should be made to keep our streets quiet during certain hours 
of the night. No attempt at this is made at present. The 
night policemen walk tacitly up and down, while every house 
in a street is being roused by the most abominable noises, 
without making the slightest attempt at checking them. It 
might not unfairly be asked that people should have a chance 
of sleeping from 12 o'clock till 8 ; but in the name of all that 
is sane, let then have the possibility of sleeping from 2 o'clock 
tills. 

There is no such chance now. No one interferes to stop any 
amount of noise in the night and early morning. A party of 
cats may hold an uproarious concert in the middle of the road 
without even a " hiss'' from the policeman to disperse them. 
Two " cabbies" may career down the opposite gutters, and hold 
a conversation across the road at the top of their voices. A 
train of scavengers' carts may be driven down the streets, 
rumbling like thunder, whi'e the driver in the last cart holloas 
his jokes to the man in the front. In some districts it is 
thought necessary to create the most infernal noise about 5 
o'clock in the morning by setting a host of garrulous old men 
to scrape and stone the roads at that pleasant hour. On 
Sunday mornings the paper boys are allowed to bawl with all 
their might. At any hour of the night, a fool in love with a 
concertina may disturb a whole neighbourhood with the noise 
he pleases to think music ; and no interruption is given to any 
number of drunken rollickers who choose to sing and holloa 
up and down our streets and squares. I have said nothing of 
the early organ-grinders, collectors of hares' and rabbits* ekins, 
sellers of water-cresses, the inevitable dustman, the rows atten- 
dant upon balls and receptions, or a hundred other sleep pre- 
venters, too painfully familiar to those who turn into their beds 
between 12 and 3 o'clock in the morning, their brains fagged 
and excited by work — parliamentary, scientific, judicial, pro- 
fessional, it matters not which, or even by those unavoidable 



174 APPENDIX. 

and wearying pursuits of social life which we call '' society/' 
Of the sick I dare not even speak, for to them this everlasting 
noise is simply murder. But for those in ordinary health, for 
those who are doing the brainwork of the nation, I ask for 
some chance of at least six hours quiet sleep out of 24. Even 
this moderate allowance might suffice to restore the wear and tear 
of the day and refresh the spirits for the ever recurring fight. 
But such sleep is utterly impossible, as a rule, in the present 
state of things, and hence the yearly increasing decay of mental 
and nervous health. 

It needs but your aid. Sir, to procure a remedy. With pro- 
per police regulations the noisiest place in London can be kept 
comparatively quiet, as the citizens have shown in the main 
thoroughfare through their tlcw meat market in Smithfield. 
There a couple of policemen, properly instructed, stop all uli- 
pleasant noise. I trust, then, that before London assembles 
again for work some steps may have been taken to give us 
quiet streets for at least six hours out of the twenty- four. 

I am, Sir, yours truly, 

M.D. 

Harley-strect. Aug. llih, 1869. 



Leader from the "Times'* August 17th, 1869, referring to the 

above letter, 

"Our correspondent 'M.D.' may we tliink, claim the credit 
of having suggested, or at least drawn public attention to, a 
new remedy fbr a very old and common complaint. The com- 
plaint cannot, indeed, be altogether got rid of without, revolu- 
tionizing our whole system of modern life, for it simply 
amounts to this — that men now-a-days work so hard, and live 
in such a constant whirl of excitement, that neither body nor 
mind gets sufficient recreation or rest. The mind is naturally 



APPENDIX. 1 75 

the greater sufferer, for the obvious reason that it may be kept 
almost inoessantlj in harness, and may be working its very 
hardest, while the body, comfortably stretched on bed or sofa, 
is enjoying luxurious repose. It is scarcely too much to say, 
for instance, that men of anxious temperament engaged in com- 
mercial speculations during critical times do not, from the 
moment they open their eyes in the morning to the moment 
they close them at night, know what it is to have ten minutes 
altogether free from absorbing calculations how to avoid this 
possible piece of bad luck, or turn good luck to the best advantage. 
Even when they try to banish these exciting topics — an effort, 
however, which over-anxious minds seldom make very strenu- 
ously — their brain, nevertheless, will sometimes work in spite 
of them. And what happens to them happens, if in less de- 
gree, to nearly all who have to win their bread in professions 
and occupations where competition is keen. Hence it is, as 
^ M. D.' points out, that we see what are vaguely called ' ner- 
vous complaints' steadily on the increase, often leading, if they 
are not at once taken vigorously in hand, to confirmed ill- 
health, and sometimes even to insanity. *It is time,* he de- 
clares * that we turned our attention to this vital question, 
upon which hang not only the comfort and happiness of our 
best men and women of the day, but the actual value of their 
mental work, the continued sanity of their minds, and the men- 
tal calibre of their offspring." 

'^ We are afraid that nothing short of a miracle could provide 
a complete remedy for the evil of which our correspondent 
complains. We should require a second Joshua to bid modern 
civilization stand still or change its course. There are indeed 
philosophers who look hopefully forward to the time when 
men will be content to do just enough work to supply them 
with the means of gratifying their proper mental and bodily 
wants — when they will not be for ever jostling and struggling 
with each other in the arduous race for power and wealth. 
The philosophers may, for aught we know, be right, and it at 
least gratifies the benevolent instincts to picture our over-worked 



176 APPENDIX, 

world some day settling down by universal consent into a 
blessed state of repose. But certainly there are at present no 
signs of this coming millennium. The nineteenth century 
notion of * enough' means * always a little more/ Thus A may 
have plenty to eat and drink of the best, a comfortable house, 
a charming wife and family, a large balance at his banker's to 
spend in the most pleasurable ways prompted by a cultivated 
taste — may, in short, have all that the philosophers consider 
essential to human happiness ; but all this avails nothing to 
keep A quiet while B remains a yard ahead of him in the race 
of life, and no sooner is B distanced than he becomes equally 
solicitous about C. Nor is this always A's own fault, if fault 
it is to be considered, or his deliberate choice. He cannot 
stand still if he would, since to remain stationary where every- 
body else is moving on is to loose ground which cannot, 
perhaps, be made good. The successful merchant or profes- 
sional man toils in his office all day, and then goes home late 
at night too tired and worn out to enjoy the home comforts 
and luxuries with which his wealth has enabled him to suiTOund 
himself. If you tell him that he is throwing all his opportu- 
nities away, that he might as well be a poor man without 
these advantages as rich without time for enjoying them, and 
that he would be wiser to content himself with doing two- 
thirds of his present work for two-thirds of his present pay, 
he will probably reply that he gladly would do this if he 
could, but that he has no choice. He cannot do just as 
much work as he likes, and leave the rest undone, 
without danger of losing his position altogether. In the 
general rush of eager competitors from all quarters, he 
must go ahead with the crowd, or risk being left far behind 
and perhaps trodden down by ifc. When a man has attained 
so secure a position that he can please himself about taking or 
rejecting work, it usually either is time that he should retire 
upon his laurels, or else, if his health is good, long habit has 
made constant work such a second nature that he cannot get 
on without it. We are afraid that, until the promised millen- 



APPENDIX. 



177 



niam provides some snbstitttte for the keen spirit of competi- 
tion, as nndersiood and practised in the nineteenth century, 
there is no hope of escaping altogether from the growing evils 
of over-work, since every new invention which diminishes 
space and time, or otherwise multiplies facilities for communi- 
cation between man and man, only supplies fresh materials for 
the competitive spirit to work upon." 

"However, that we cannot effectually remedy the evils of 
over-work, and that it is steadily on the increase, are only ad- 
ditional reasons for adopting what partial remedies we can 
find ; and * M.D/ has at least one to suggest well worth pub- 
lic consideration. The best cure for over- work is obviously 
rest, and the best kind of rest is sound sleep at night. The 
first question usually that the doctor asks a patient suffering 
from * nervous exhaustion,' * worry' or * brain-fag' is whether he 
sleeps well, and, if the answer is in the negative, every plan is 
tried to secure him, that surest and safest of all restoratives, a 
sound night's rest. Yet in London, as * M.D.' bitterly com- 
plains — and the complaint is repeated by other correspondents, 
whose letters we publish to-day — in which, as the busiest cen- 
tre of industrial and social life, the wear and tear of over- work 
is greatest, and the need for the best kind of rest proportion- 
ately pressing, no attention whatever is paid to procuring quiet 
nights. Anybody and everybody is allowed, without let or 
hindrance, to make night hideous by whatever discordant 
sounds may suit his jovial or fantastic mood, his pleasure in 
the performance being probably enhanced by the thought that 
he is disturbing all the commonplace, prosaic people who have 
tamely slunk off to bed instead of ' enjoying life' as he does. 
Our correspondent, *M.D.' graphically described with the in- 
dignant energy apparently of a victim, the various nocturnal 
noises which in London murder sleep. It is not necessary here 
to re-enumerate them, or to say more about them than that 
they nearly all — certainly all the most objectionable — might 
be, if not altogether stopped, at least kept within less trouble- 
some limits by the police. The police, for iustance, cannot 

N 



178 APPENDIX. 

prevent cabs from remaining in or driving abont the streets all 
night, but they can prevent the cabmen from carrying on a 
conversation in Stentorian tones with each other or the water- 
men or any late reveller who provokes them to a wordy war ; 
and although the reveller himself cannot be kept from wander- 
ing all night about London, he may at least be kept qniet with- 
out any unwarrantable infringement upon the liberties of the 
British subject, and it is to revellers that much of the nightly 
disturbance in town is due. Besides, the interference of the 
police, independently of its immediate and special effects, would 
generally exercise a beneficial influence by directing public at- 
tention to a question which, notwithstanding its vital import- 
ance, is now strangely neglected. Unless a law is so unpopu- 
lar that people deliberately rebel against it, its natural 
tendency is to educate the public mind into a spontaneous 
appreciation of the practice it enjoins. Many Londoners, 
otherwise harmless and well-disposed enough, are often noisy 
at night simply because the duty of keeping quiet ajid allowing 
their neighbours to sleep undisturbed has never been fairly 
brought home to them. But if the violation of this duty came 
to be recognised as an offence, not merely in theory, but in 
practice, rendering the offender liable to be locked up some 
hours in a police-cell and punished next morning by a magfis- 
trate, the duty itself would acquire its proper importance in the 
eyes of all respectable law-regarding people. Nor would the 
indirect effects of police interference cease, we think, here. In 
various other ways attention would be drawn to the necessity 
of securing qniet nights in London. Streets would be paved, 
houses and windows be constructed, and even bedrooms chosen 
with much greater regard than at present to this point if its 
importance were more generally recognised — if, in fact, it be- 
came one of the standing sanitary arrangements of the metro- 
polis. Now, although a vast number of Londoners suffer sadly 
from want of sleep at night, they have learnt by long habit to 
look upon it as a necessary evil, inseparable from London life. 
They bear with it, because their only notion of escaping from it 



APPENDIX. 179 

is to rush off to some qniet place in the coontiy where there 
are no night cabmen or drunken revellers, and by most Lon- 
doners the remedy would probably be considered worso than 
the disease. Yet, for all this, they do not at all relish the dis- 
ease, but would gladly be rid of it, and if the police will take 
the matter up and endeavour gradually and judiciously, by 
making a few well-chosen examples, to protect the streets 
of London and other large towns from needless disturbance 
between, say, midnight and 6 or 7 o'clock in the morning, we 
are quite sure they will receive the thanks of the community, 
and may rely on public support." 



V. 

Abstract of a Lecture on " Dust and Disease, delivered at the 
Boyod Institution,^* (From TJie British Medical Journal, Jan- 
uary 29th, 1870. 

"Professor Ttndall, in making some experiments on va- 
pours, wished for a current of air quite free from the particles 
of dust always seen in a beam of sunlight. He tried various 
means for this purpose ; one consisted in passing air through a 
tube filled with sulphuric acid ; another, in passing the air 
through a tube filled with solution of potash. In each case, 
particles, capable of refracting light, and rendering themselves 
visible, were still present. In October, 1868 he hit on the plan 
of allowing the air to pass over the flame of a spirit-lamp. 
' The floating matter no longer appeared, having been burnt up 
by the flame. It was, therefore, organic matter. If the air 
were sent too rapidly through the flame, a fine blue cloud was 
noticed. This was the smoke of the organic particles.* The 
Professor was not prepared for the discovery that the dust of 
our air was organic. He had always considered it inorganic 
and non-combustible. M. Valentin now furnished him with 
a small gas furnace with a platinum tube, which could be 

n2 



180 APPENDIX. 

heated to redness. Air was passed through this tube when 
cold, and then when hoi When combustion was perfect, no 
particles could be detected." 

'^ Further experiments led to still more interesting results. 
A beam of light was made to illumine the dust of the labora- 
tory, and the flame of the spirit-lamp allowed to play on it. 
Wreaths of darkness were at once seen to mingle witli the 
flame, jusi like intensely black smoke. ' When the flame was 
placed below the beam of light, the same dark masses steamed 
upwards.* They were at times blacker than the blackest 
smoke. A red-hot poker placed under the beam produced the 
same dark wreaths. A large hydrogen flame led to the same 
result. Smoke was therefore out of the question. What, 
then, was the blackness ? Simply that of stellar space result- 
ing from the absence, from the track of the beam, of all matter 
capable of scattering its light." 

" The Professor then remarked : * Nobody could, without re- 
pugnance in the first instance, place the mouth at the illumin- 
ated focus of the electric beam and inhale the dirt revealed 
there. Nor is the disgust abolished by the reflection that, 
although we do not see the nastiness, we are churning it in our 
lungs every hour and minute of our lives.' The wonder is, 
that so small a portion of this dirt should appear to be really 
deadly to man. What is this portion ?" 

" The lecturer then alluded to the notion, at one time preval- 
ent, that malarious diseases were due to organic matter in a 
state of decay (fermentation). It was then shown that fer- 
mentation really depended on the growth of the yeast-plant. 
Further, Schwann, in 1837, showed that meat, in contact with 
air which had been heated, did not putrefy ; and he affirmed 
that putrefaction was caused by something derived from the 
air, which could be destroyed by high temperature. The 
germ-theory of epidemic disease soon followed, and found an 
energetic supporter in Sir Henry Holland, the present Presi- 
dent of the Boyal Institution. The spread of cholera and that 
of small-pox were adduced as instances in support of the germ- 
theory." 



APPENDIX. 181 

''Professor Tjndall alluded to the difficulty that must be 
experienced in freeing surgical instruments (a canula, for in- 
stance) from the means of carrying contagion, in the presence 
of an atmosphere such as ours, unless a high temperature were 
employed, and this is not done. Thus, notwithstanding all the 
surgeon's care, inflammation often sets in after the use of such 
an instrument. When an abscess has been tapped, the pus, 
which was at 'first sweet, becomes foetid and swarms with 
vibrios. Professor Lister's views were quoted." 

" The Professor then said the dust could not be blown away 
with a pair of bellows ; but, if the muzzle of the bellows were 
stuffed with cotton-wool, it was found that the air which 
escaped was free from particles, Schroeder used cotton-wool as 
a filter in his experiments on spontaneous generation ; and sub- 
sequently it was used in those of Pasteur. Since 1868 Dr. 
Tyndall has used it himself." 

'' The most interesting and important illustration of such a 
filtering process is furnished by the human breath. After in- 
spiring a quantity of common air, a long expiration is made 
through a glass tube across the electric beam. At first the 
luminous track is uninterrupted. The breath impresses on the 
floating matter a transverse motion, but the dust from the 
lungs makes good the particles displaced. After a time, how- 
ever, an obscure disc appears upon the beam, and, at the end of 
expiration, the beam is, as it were, pierced by an intensely 
black hole, in which no particles whatever can be discerned. 
The air, in fact, has lodged its dirt in the lungs. A handful 
of cotton-wool placed over the nose and mouth during inspira- 
tion makes the dark 'hole in the beam of light appear from the 
beginning of expiration. A silk handkerchief answers nearly 
as well, but the filtration is not nearly so perfect as with cot- 
ton-wool." 

" In conclusion, the use of cotton-wool respirators was 
strongly advocated.'* 



182 APPENDIX, 



VI. 



Letter from the Author published d/uring the prevalence of Typhus 
Fever im the Metropolis, to call attention to the mischief which 
may accrue from neglecting even one of the essentials of a Nor- 
mal diet, 

BREAD DIET AND TYPHUS FEVER. 

TO THE EDITOR OF **THE DAILY TEIiEGRAPH." 

Sir, — The folly of the man who built his house upon the 
sands is familiar to all the world ; but there is a parable of a 
folly even greater than his. A people, knowing that a tempest 
was approaching, left out the mortar and the girders from the 
houses they were building, and when the tempest came, and 
the winds blew upon the houses, they crumbled to pieces be- 
fore the storm. 

It will hardly be believed that such an act as this is being 
performed, at the present hour, in the most enlightened city of 
Christendom, under the eyes of scientific and learned men, in 
the purest innocence and good faith, and in the name of chari- 
ty. Yet such is the plain truth. 

Typhus fever has made its appearance in the houses of the 
half-starved poor of this metropolis. It is a contageous disease, 
but requires a particular soil to insure its fructification. Hence, 
out of any number of persons exposed to its poison, those suffer 
from the disease whose bodies present the most appropriate 
soil, and it proves especially fatal to those who are most 
strongly predisposed to its attack. It is well known to patho- 
logists that in those who die of typhus all the tissues of the 
body, and the blood itself, are found to have lost their plasticity. 
Loss of plasticity in the body, and general want of vital force, 
constitute the characteristics of the soil in which the seed of 
typhus is sure to fructify. It would seem, then, but the most 
obvious common sense, that wherever the seed of typhus is 
known to be lurking every possible effort should be made to 
secure that it shall find no appropriate soil— that no human 



APPBNDIX. 183 

bodies deficient in plasticity shall be at hand. Yet what is the 
real state of the case ? Typhus fever follows in the track of 
want. It fixes on some household where the effects of want 
are rife — i,e. where the inmates are reduced to the last extreme 
of poverty, and as a consequence are depending upon parish 
relief. Such a household is almost sure to be closely associated 
with others of the same class — depending upon parish relief. 
This parish relief means bread. 

The seed of typhus, then, is scattered amongst a community 
subsisting upon bread. Now the houses in the parable, built 
up without mortar or girders, are the analogues of the human 
bodies built up out of bread. They have lost plasticity, and 
when the seed of typhus falls upon them, it takes root and 
fructifies, and they crumble to pieces before the storm of sick- 
ness. It is hardly possible to maintain the body in health 
upon bread alone. A long study of the composition of food, in 
relation to health, warrants me in making this assertion ; and 
I feel bound, in the cause of humanity, to call attention to this 
fact at the present moment, when the winter is at hand, and 
the poor of this city are threatened with such a scourge as 
typhus fever. 

No food can maintain health in an adult, unless the average 
allowance for twenty-four hours yields to analysis from 3 to 4 
oz. of plastic material, from 2 to 3 oz. of fat, and from 8 to 10 
oz. of saccharine material. (See Essentials of a Normal Diet). 
Compare this with the composition of bread. At least 32 oz. 
of bread must not only be eaten but assimilated in order to 
obtain 3 oz. of plastic material, the smallest amount which 
can be accepted as necessary to supply the daily waste of tissue. 
This assimilation cannot take place without a certain propor- 
tion of fat, which fat is not supplied in the necessary quantity 
by the bread, and no other source of supply is provided by the 
parish relief. It thus becomes evident that all those poor 
creatures who are entirely dependent upon bread for their 
existence are specially prepared for the reception of typhus, 
and not less specially prepared for its fatal issue. 



184 APPENDIX. 

Setting every other consideration aside, then, and taking 
simply the groand of economy, it is a frightful extravagance 
of the fnnds of a parish, not less than of its life, to issue rations 
of bread only to the inhabitants of districts where typhus fever 
is rife. Immediately a patient is stricken with typhus the 
medical officer must call for wine, brandy, beef-tea, and the 
like, to the consternation of the board of guardians ; and after 
all this there will probably come at last the expense of burial. 
So that every case of typhus is a drain on the parish funds far 
greater than would have been made by supplying the extra 
food necessary to prevent it. If then the spread of typhus is 
to be checked, instead of encouraged — if it is to be rendered 
less fatal when it occurs, instead of more fatal — ^rations con- 
taining the proper elements of nutrition in their proper pro- 
portions and quantities must be secured to every member of a 
t'amily in which one individual is affected with typhus, and also 
to all those persons who are associated with the infected house- 
aold. 

There is considerable difficulty in selecting diets for the very 
poor, which combine cheapness and simplicity with the essential 
chemical composition and a form which the stomach will 
tolerate. But the two following will be found to fulfil all 
these conditions, so far as it is possible to do so without the 
introduction of meat ; and in one of them bread is given in the 
largest quantity consistent with health : — 

1. Allowance for twenty- four hours: Bread, 25 oz. ; cheese, 
2 oz. ; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These yield to analysis : 
Plastic material, 3*1 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; saccharine material, 
11 '4 oz. 

2. Allowance for twenty-four hours : Oatmeal, 16 oz. ; milk 
^ pint ; butter, suet, or dripping, 1 oz. These yield to analysis : 
Plastic material, 3*0 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; saccharine, 9*0 oz» 

To each of these diets must be added limejuice or some land 
vegetable, salt, and a free supply of pure water. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c., 

M.D. 

Harley Street. Dec. 15fcli. 



APPENDIX. 



185 



VII. 
PROM THE PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, No. 97, 1868. 

On the Spbcul Action op thb Pancreas on Fat and Starch. 
By Horace Dobell, M.D., &c. 

I have been engaged for several years in experimenting with 
the secretion of the pancreas. The enquiry of which I now 
make known the results has reference especially to the mode 
of action of the pancreas upon fats — a point which has been the 
subject of investigation by various physiologists ever since the 
discovery of the influence of the pancreatic fluid on the absorp- 
tion of fat by Claude Bernard, nearly twenty years ago. 

In the chemical parts of my experiments I owe much to the 
efficient aid of my friend Mr. Julius Schweitzer, and to the 
energy and perseverance with which he carried out my sug- 
gestions under many difficulties. 

The objects of my investigations have been as follows : — 

1. To discover the exact character and nature of the influence 
exerted by the pancreas upon fats. 

2. To discover a means of obtaining and preserving the active 
principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experiment in 
the laboratory, and for administration as a remedial agent. 

3. To discover the effects of the administration of the active 
principles of the pancreas as a remedial agent in certain wast- 
ing diseases, and to test, by an experimentum crucis, the truth of 
a conclusion on this subject, at which I had previously arrived 
by a process of inductive research. 

I shall not occupy the valuable time of the Society by nar- 
rating the many more or less unsuccessful experiments, but 
restrict myself to a concise record of those attended with success. 

Experiments were made with the pancreas of several different 
animals, but that of the pig was selected for the experiments 
of which I am about to give the results, as being nearest in the 
character of its functions to that of the human subject. 

In order to ascertain the normal reaction of the pancreatic 



186 APPENDIX. 

juice, and whether thig is altered by the length of time that 
has elapsed since the last meal, the following experiment was 
made with the assistance of Mr. Schweitzer and of Mr. Harris 
of Calne, who kindly placed his extensive pig-killing establish- 
ment at onr service for the purpose. 

On March 22, 1866, forty pigs were killed, and the pancreas 
of each examined immediately after death ; the killing and 
examination were so rapidly conducted, that the pancreas was 
in each case examined while warm from the body ; and the 
killing and examination of the forty pigs in succession occu- 
pied less than an hour. 

The pigs were killed ten at a time. The first ten had been 
fed two hours before they were killed, the second ten five hours, 
the third ten nine hours, and the fourth ten had not been fed 
for two days. 

The pancreas in each group presented the same characters 
in size, colour, and reaction. Each pancreas was cut through 
so as to lay open the principal duct, but in no case was there 
any fluid in the duct. Litmus-paper was applied to the interior 
of the duct and to the divided gland-cells, and on being pressed 
sufficiently against the tissues to absorb moisture, the paper 
was in each case reddened where it was moistened. This acid 
reaction was not found in the fat and muscles of the animal. 

At .my request. Dr. Collins examined the reaction of the 
pancreas in a series of cases at the moment when all the di- 
gestive organs were under active excitement. He gave the 
pigs a good and relishing meal, and while they were eating it, 
divided the spinal marrow in the neck, so as to destroy sensa- 
tion in the body. The pigs were immediately cut open, the 
pancreas removed, and its reaction examined. On August 3rd 
he wrote me, " As you requested, I have tried a series of expe- 
riments upon the panopeas, parotid, and sublingual glands. 
The two latter have a decidedly acid reaction, but the pancreas 
I am not quite so certain about ; in one batch of pigs killed in 
Buckinghamshire it was alkaline, but in another lot in Hert- 
fordshire it was acid." 



APPENDIX. 187 

The reaction of the pancreas is always acid when it reaches 
the laboratory for experiment as quickly as possible after re- 
moval from the animal. This we have proved in many hun- 
dreds of instances. 

To discover the influence of the pancreas upon fat, the fresh 
pancreas of the pig, freed from all adhering blood and other 
extraneous matters, was cut into small pieces, bruised, and 
mixed with lard ; and to this mixture water was gradually 
added. In the bruised condition the pancreas had an acid 
reaction. By stirring this mixture of pancreas, lard, and wa- 
ter, the fatty character disappeared, a thick, white, creamy 
fluid being formed, which, on standing, solidifled into a Arm 
pasty mass. This mass had also an acid reaction. In order to 
free it from the debris of pancreas, it was pressed through mus- 
lin, and a uniform smooth creamy emulsion remained. This 
emulsion rapidly putrefied, but remained a permanent emulsion 
until putrefaction set in. 

The following are the microscopical characters presented by 
pure lard before mixture with pancreas, and by this emulsion, 
which I call " crude emulsion" : — 

1. **Lard" (pure). — Aggregations of ordinary acicular crys- 
tals of margarine. No oil-globules. No water. 

2. " Crude emulsion." — A tolerably uniform granular mass 
with separate acicular crystals of margarine, oil-globules, and 
water abundantly distributed throughout the mass. In some 
places the crystals are aggregated as in No. 1. The granules 

ranffe from the -— to -^ of an inch in diameter, 

° 3000 15CXX) 

This mixture of fat and water diflers from all other mixtures 
or chemical combinations of fat and water in the following 
particulars. 

When the "crude emulsion" is put into ether, the ether 
separates it into two strata — 

a. An ethereal stratum above containing the fat. 

h. A watery stratum below. 

When the upper stratum (a) (ethereal solution of fat) is 
drawn off and the ether evaporated by a cautiously regulated 



188 APPENDIX. 

heat, a pure crystalline fat remains which I call '^ pancreatized 
fat." This pancreatized fat has no tendency to putrefy, and 
will keep for an indefinite period. It presents the following 
characters under the microscope :— 

3. "Pancreatized fat" (lard) consists of minute separate 
acicular crystals of margarine and fine granular matter uni- 
formly distributed. The special character is the complete loss 
of aggregation of the crystals. 

This " pancreatized fat" retains the property of mixing or 
combining with water, and forming a thick, smooth, creamy 
emulsion, that it possessed in the form of " crude emulsion" 
before solution in ether. The emulsion formed by mixture of 
"pancreatized fat" with water I call "purified pancreatic 
emulsion." It has, like the crude emulsion, an acid reaction, 
and will keep for a very long time, and presents the following 
microscopical characters :— 

4. "Purified emulsion" (No. 3, spirit and water). — As 
nearly as possible the same as No. 2 ; the separate crystals 
more uniformly distributed, and fewer aggregations of them. 
No globules.* 

On analysis of the lower watery stratum (h) resulting from 
the separation of the fat of the crude emulsion by ether, it is 
found to contain no glycerine. 

On analysis of the pancreatized fat (3) obtained by evapo- 
rating the ether from stratum a, it is found that 100 parts of 
the pancreatized fat are saponified by 54 parts of oxide of 
lead, and yield 146'25 parts of lead-plaster, and 6*75 parts of 
glycerine. 

It is also found that every 100 parts of lard used in making 
the crude emulsion produce 106*5 parts of pancreatized fat, the 
increase of 6*5 parts being solely due to absorption of water, 
as proved by heating the pancreatized fat, when the water separ- 
ates, and the pancreatized fat is reconverted into ordinary lard. 

* In cold weather it is necessary to gently warm the glass slide before 
placing the above specimens upon it, otherwise the solid constituents become 
agglomerated. 



APPENDIX. 189 

In all the foregoing respects the pancreatic emulsion of fat 
differs entirely from all other kinds of emulsion of fatty matter, 
whether chemical or mechanical. All other emulsions of fat 
are destroyed by ether, the fat being restored at once to its 
original condition. 

The influence exerted by the pancreas upon fats, therefore, 
appears to operate by breaking up the aggregation of the 
crystals of the fat. It alters the molecular condition of the 
fat, mingling it with water in such a way that even ether can- 
not separate the fat from the water. A permanent emulsion 
is thus formed ready to mix with a larger quantity of water 
whenever it may be added. 

The pancreas, therefore, in acting upon fat, does not decom- 
pose it into fatty acid and glycerine, the absence of the 
glycerine from the watery stratum (&), and the presence of the 
glycerine in the pancreatized fat of the ethereal stratum (a), 
having been demonstrated. 

AcHon of the ptmcreas upon starch, — ^It is well known that, in 
addition to the influence of the pancreas upon fat, it has the 
power of converting starch into glycose by simple mixture. 
This property remains to a certain extent after the pancreas 
has exhausted its property of acting upon fat. The quantity of 
pancreas which before mixture with fat will convert about 
eight parts of starch into glycose, after saturation with fat will 
still convert about two parts of starch into glycose. 

Second object. — To discover a means of preserving the 
active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experiment 
in the laboratory, and for administration as a remedial agent. 

The properties of the pancreas can be extracted from the 
tissue of the gland by means of water. This watery fluid 
putrefies very rapidly. It has an acid reaction, a deep yellow 
colour, coagulates largely by boiling, leaving the colour of the 
fluid unaltered. It may be precipitated by lead solution, and 
decomposed again by sulphuretted hydrogen. 

When this watery fluid is evaporated, it forms a syrupy 
extract, which is highly hygroscopic and very difficult to dry. 



190 APPENDIX. 

With great care and trouble, however, it may be dried. For 
general purposes, the drying is greatly facilitated by -adding a 
dry absorbing-powder, such as powdered malt. For experi- 
mental purposes, it may be used in its pure undried state of 
syrupy extract, but must in that case be used fresh. In the 
dry state, either pure or mixed with malt-dust, it may be kept 
good for an indefinite length of time, if protected from moisture 
in a well- closed bottle. This extract of the pancreas, contain- 
ing the active principles of the pancreas in the highest degree 
of efficiency, whether fluid or powdered, I call " pancreatine." 
This term is only used for convenience' sake, and must in no 
way be understood to signify that the property possessed by it 
is single* All attempts to isolate the several properties of the 
pancreas into separate products have failed, no one of such 
products having been found to possess in perfection the 
property of acting upon fat in the manner described in this 
paper as peculiar to the pancreas. By the term "pancreatine," 
then, I desire to represent the entire properties of the pancreas 
extracted in a convenient form for keeping, for experiment, and 
for administration as a remedial agent. 

One part of the pure pancreatine dried, without mixture with 
malt-dust, will digest at least sixbeen parts of lard, and enable 
it to form a thick creamy emulsion, with about 100 parts of 
water. The emulsion thus formed presents in every respect 
the characters and qualities of the emulsion produced by the 
fresh pancreas already described. In this way therefore the 
active principles of the pancreas may be obtained and preserved 
in a form suitable for experiment in the laboratory and for 
administration as a remedial agent. 

The third object of my investigations has especially occu- 
pied my attention in a long series of experiments at the Royal 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Full details of these and 
of the results obtained have been published from time to time, 
during the last four years, in the medical journals; I shall not, 
therefore, occupy the time of the Society with any account of 
them in this paper. 



INDEX. 



Air, fresh, oonditions for supply 
of to apartments . 

Albaminoids, increase of, in the 
diet, in Bright's disease . 

Alcohol, table, (notice) 

tablef showing the ana- 
lysis of spirituous liquors 

Ajistie and Parkes on. 



PAGE 



(notice) 



fiuts 
experiments 



on the 



13 

94 

8 

79 

7 
38 



eflfeets of, on the human body, 
by E. A. Parkes and Count 



Wollowicz 
its 



oxidation in 



body as food .... 

administration of, 

its place in diet . 

in oisease, effects 

— — — — acute 
— ' chronic . 

' Leading article from 



162-71 
the 
. 7 



(C 



62 

62 

159 

159 

161 

159 



Lancet" 

AnsBmia, a fr^uent vestige of 
severe diseases, and names of 
diseases under which it proves 
&tal . . ... 137-42 

connection with rick- 
ets .... 141^2 

Anstie on alcohol, (notice) . 7 

Apoplexy, relation of changes in 
blood vessels to . . . 145 

■ vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 135 

Arteries, atheromatous disease of 146 

Atrophy, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . . 136 

Banting's diet, (approximate ana- 
lysis) S3 

Bantingism, good and harm 
from, as a system of diet . 84 

Bathing 34 

Baths, **cold friction" daily use 
of 34 

— — warm .... 115 



PAGR 

Beef Tea 109 

Bernard, experiments showing 
morbid predispositions to be 
peculiar physiological condi- 
tions 153 

Bowels, regulation of • .35 

Bread 113 

Bread diet, not sufficient to 
maintain health . . . 183 

and typhus fever . 182 

Breakfast, the second best meal 

of the day . .37 

Bronchitis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . . 132 

death from, in rickets 140 

Kettie, Nash's . 116 

GarboUc aeid . . . 103-8 

— mode of using for 

disinfection .... 108 
Carbon, heat of combustion of, 

with hydrogen . . .49 
Change and rest ... .36 
— ; — see Posture. 
Childbirth, death from rickets in 140 
Chill, severe, case of different 
sequelaa from, in different per- 
sons .... 151, 154-5 
Chloride of Lime . . 103-8 

modes of using 

for disinfection . . . 107 
Cider, analysis of . . .79 
Climate of United Kingdom, 
rules for promoting and main- 
taining vigorous health in 12-47 
Clothing and protection from 

cold 25 

Cold, protection from, by cloth- 
ing 26 

Colds, per centage of causes of . 26 
Collins (B.) deaths in childbirth 
from fatty degeneration of 

Uterus 147 

Condy*8 Fluid . . . 103-S 

mode of using for 

disinfection .... 108 



192 



INDEX. 



PAGB 

Consumption, tables of diets for 

— — carbo-hydrate 98 

_ albuminoid . 99 

fluid diet . 100 

Contagion, means for preventing 103 

■ see also Infection. 

Contagious Diseases, media by 

which communicated . . 102 
— — — — means of 

preventing the spread of . 104 
Cosens' (F. W.) description of 

Spanish wines . • 69-72 

Cotton-wool, use of as a filter 

and res|)irator . . . 181 
" Cough (winter) Lectures on," 

notice 26 



Darby's fluid meat . . 110 

DebiQty, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 136 
Degeneration^ fatty, as a vestige 
of disease^ its probable causes 
and effects . . . 143-61 
Denman (J. L.) properties of 

Greek wines . . . .72 
Dentition retarded, from rickets 140 
Diabetes, diet in ... 4 

rationale of a proper 

diet in 96 

Table of diet for . . 101 

Diet. Tables o^ (notice) . . 8 
— ^ Tables of, lor maintenance 
of heaJth in adults in the cli- 
mate of the United Kingdom 63-9 
Table, arranged for a chari- 
table institution, or children 
taken from destitute homes . 69 
— normal .... 4-6 

•^-^— essentials of, 52, 183 

combination of ali- 

114 



mentary principles forming a 
-effects of neglecting 



even one of the essentials of 
modiflcation of to 



182 



suit the conditions of disease 89-90 
cheap diet, without meat 184 



for the very poor 
place of alcohol in 
errors in 
see Food. 
of disease 



principles of 
rules to be 



ob- 



served in 



ments from 



removal 
which 



of ele- 
increase 



69 
6 
4 

4-6 

87 

93-6 



function of diseased organs . 91 



PA.GB 

Diet of disease, avoidance of unne- 
cessary reduction of variety in 92 

in Consumption (tables) 98-100 

in diabetes . . . 4, 95, 101 

^^ in dyspepsia ... 5 
— ^ bread, and typhus fever . 182 
Digestion, healtiiy, conditions 

necessary to . . . .40 
Dinner, evils attending when 
taken at mid-day during busi- 
ness hours . . . 41-2, 47 
Disease, germ theory of . . 180 

'Lectures on the germs 

and vestiges of extracts from 118 

; — vestiges of, mode in 

which they oecome causes of 
fatality in other diseases 127-8 

interdependence of 1, 128 

Tables of, showing ves- 



tiges of disease as the causes 

ofother diseases . . 180-36 

Disease, diet of . . . . 4-6 

■ ditto, principles of . 87 

effects of alcohol in . 169 

contagious, media by 



which communicated 

means of preventing 

the spread of . 

Diseases of the Chest, a depart- 
ment of medicine not a speci- 
ality . k . • . 

Disinfectants, use of various 

— ^ — mode and proportion 

in which each should be used . 107 

Disinfection, directions and pre- 
cautions .... 102-7 

Dobell, "Lectures on winter 
Cough" extracts from . 26-9 

— — "Letter on London Noise 



102 
104 



8 

103 



and Jiondon Sleep*' 

Letter on "Proper hours 



for Meals" 

on the importance of dis 



tinguishing between solid and 
liquid fiats (from Chemical 

News) 

on some principles of diet 



in disease (Lecture delivered 

at the Hospital for Diseases 

of the Chest) .... 

"Lectures on the 



germs 

and vestiges of disease," ex- 
tracts from .... 
Paper on periodical ex- 



172 
38 



80 



87 



118 



aminations at public charities 
(notice) . ... .122 
on the special action of 



pancreas on fat and starch 183-90 



INDIiX. 



193 



paoe 
Dogmas, pBondo-medical, and 

rational medicina . . . 10 
Drainage (House), suggestions 
and remarks on by G. E. 
Pritchett . . . 14-24 

Dry earth system of Closets . 23 
*' Dust and disease," lecture on 

by Prof. Tyndall . . .179 
Dyspepsia, avoidance of unne- 
cessary reduction of variety of 

diet in 92 

acid, diet in . .4 

" Education, Physical," extracts 

from Madaren's work on . 32 
Egg, white and yolk of, &c. . 112 
Enemata, nutritive . . .115 
Examination, periodical, impor- 
tance of, for tiie prevention of 
disease .... 119-26 

Exercise 31 

extracts from " Mao- 

laren on Physical education," 
on . ■ . . . .32 
see Postwe and Meals, 



109 



Farinaceous articles . 
Fat essential to healthy nutri- 
tion ...*.. 
in the body, its character 

varied by food 
importance of proper food 

to supply the adipose tissue 

with • • . . . 
on the special action of the 

pancreas on ... . 

see PcuncreaUc Emulsion, 

getting, or thin . . 5, 

solid and lic[uid, importance 

of diftinguishing between 
Fattening, artificial of animals . 
Fatty degeneration, as a vestige 

of disease . . . 148-51 
— supposed 

causes of death in cases of 150-^1 
Fermented liquors, amount 

which may oe taken daily 

with advantage . « 
Fevers, contagious, media by 

which communicated 

continued, vestiges of. 



80 

82 



83 

185 

83 

80 
85 



8 
102 



the causes of other diseases 

BeeTSfpTvuSf Typhoid. 

see Rhemnatic Fever. 



134 



Fogs and damp air as causes of 

colds 29 

Food, heat and motion . 5, 48 
connection with force • 5 



PA^OE 

Food, heat equivalents of . .49 

mode in which heat evolved 

from is disposed of . . .60 

— its precedence among means 

of preserving health . . 6 
tdble of tne composition of 

some of the principal articles 

of 61 

see Diet 

Foot-pound, its mechanical force 49 
Foot- tons, mechanical equivalent 

of heat- units in . - . .49 

Gangrene, senile, in tissues al- 
ready degenerate . . . 148 

Gas, means of ventilation, dur- 
ing use of . . • .13 

Germ theory of disease (notice) 180 

Goloshesj use of . . . .25 

Gout, antecedents of, and rela- 
tions with constitutional dis- 
orders .... 122-3 

vestiges of, the causes of 

other diseases . , 133-4 

Gulliver, atheromatous disease 
of arteries . . . . 146 

Gypsum, the question of sprin- 
kling grapes with . . .71 

Habits, regulation of . . .9 

Health more required by modem 
men at their occupations than 
strength . . . . .32 

rules for promoting and 
maintainingin the climate of 
the United^ingdom . 12-47 

Heart and Pericuraium, vestiges 
of diseases of, causes of other 
diseases 131 

Heat, food and motion . ^ 5, 48 

— British unit of, mechanical 
equivalent of . . . .49 

heat-equivalents of food . 49 

evolution of, food required 

for 5d 

evolved from food, mode in 

which disposed of . . .50 

Heating and ventilation . .12 

Holland (Sir H.) on Symptoma- 
tic complaints (from "Medi- 
cal Notes") . . . .122 

House Drainage, suggestions on 
from an architect (G. E. Prit- 
chett, F.S.A.) . . 14-24 

Hybernation, supply of heat- 
giving elements in diseases re- 
sembung ... 90 



194 



INDEX 



PAGB 

Indigestion common amonff 
those who live an in-door liro 

Infection, means of preventinff . 103 

dire d ions for the sick- 
room and attendants to pre- 
vent .... 108-3 

precautions to be used 

by medical men . . . 100 

modes of preventing 

after illness .... 107 
see also Di8mf§ctionf 



Contagions diseases. 
Inhalation, flaids for . . 115 

Interdependence of diseases . 1 



Jelly, port wine .... 114 
Jenner (Sir W.) *' Lecture on 

Bickets," extracts irom. . . 139 
Johnston (James L.) notices of 
wines, their fermentation, dis- 
tinctive characters, strength, 
&o. • • • • 64-8 

Eirkes, on fibrinous obstruction 
of cerebral arteries • . . 146 

Laryngismus stridulus, connec- 
tion with rickets . . . 139 
Liebig's extract of meat • .109 
Ligh^ in the sick-room . .115 
Liquors, see Fermented, MdU, 

Spvrituous, 
"London Noise and London 
Sleep" LetteronbyDr.Dobell 172 

•^— Leader from the 

"Times" on ditto . . .174 

■■ enumeration of spe- 

cial night noises . . . 173 

preventable ones , 178 

Maclaren "on Physical educa- 
tion" (notice of) . . .9 
^— — — ditto, extracts from . 32 
Malt liquors, table of analyses of 79 

Meals 37 

proper hours for . 9, 37-8 

modem regulations of bu- 
siness establishments relative 
to, inconsistent with healthy 
digestion . . .^ . 39-40 
regulations for improving 



the times o^ connected with 
the obligations of business . 44 
— light, importance of dur- 
ing business hours . . 44 
see Dmner. 



Measles, variety in attacks, from 
the same source . • . 162 



PAGE 

Meat, rules in loss of power of 
digesting . . . . 94 

Darby's fluid, the consti- 
tuents of lean meat made solu- 
ble in water, and not coagu- 
lable on heating 

ditto, methods of using . 

Liebig's extract of 



110 
111 
109 
Medical Men, the duties of 118-20 
Medicine, departiments of, which 

are not specialities . . 2-3 
rational medicine and 



pseudo-medical dogmas • 
Milk, use in diarrhoBa 

and Suet . 

with Spirit 

Moselle Wine, valuable medi- 
cinal qualities of . • . 
principal growths 



of 



10 

94 

114 

115 

78 

74 



• see Wines (German) 

Motion, heat and food . 5, 48 

Nervous complaints, increase of 
from modem excessive compe- 
tition in commerce and the pro- 
fessions .... 176-7 
Noise of London . . .172 
Nursing schedule, necessity for . 116 
Nutrition^ healthy, necessity of 
preserving by diet in disease 88-9 

Olein, its relations to solid and 
liquid fiitty bodies . . . 81 

Ormerod on &,tty degeneration 
of the heart .... 146 

Oxygen, mean consumption of 
by adults .... 49 

Paget (J.) remarks on fatty de- 
generation, Ac. . . 145-6 

Pancreas (pancreatic emulsion) 
on the special action of the, 
on fat and starch, by H. Do- 
bell . . . . . 185-9 

Pancreatic emulsion . . .93 

Paralysis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . . 135 

Parkes' (E. A.) experiments on 
the effects of Alcohol on the 
human body . . . 162-71 

Periodical examinations, import- 
ance of, for the prevention of 
disease . . . 119-26 

"Physical education" extracts 
from Maclaren's work on . 32 

Physiological States (abnormal) 

161-7 



INDEX, 



195 



PAGI 

Fhyaiologioal oonditionB not re- 
oognised as disease, and yet 
not health . . . .156 

• possibility of cure 

in ditto 167 

Fbetunonia, rickets often the 
true cause of death in • . 140 

fatality in from other 
chronic disease . . . 147 
Port Wine, strength per cent. &c. 67 

Jelly . . . .114 

Posture 33 



- see Exercise, 



Ponltices 116 

Pritchett (G. E.) Suggestions 
and remarks on House Drain- 
age 14-24 



Bain-water, means of preserving 
in underground tanks . . 17 

Recipes, &c., special, for the 
sick-room . . . 109-17 

Begimen 9 

Regulation of habits ... 9 

Bespiration j amount of air vitia- 
ted by, per hour . . .13 

Bespirator, the onlv protection 
from damp fogs, &c. . . 29 

Best and Change . . . 36 

— '- see Sleep, 

Best for diseased organs, to be 
obtained by removing elements 
firom diet which increase their 
functions 91 

Bestorative food . . . 113 

Bheumatic fever, case of, and 
probable sequelse from want of 
precautions . . . 124-6 

^ vestiges of, 
causes of other diseases , 130 

Bheumatism, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases . 133-4 

Bickets, causes of death in ^ . 140 

connection with ansamia 

141-2 
diseases in which they 



PAGE 

Sherries^ extensive fraudulent 
imitation of .... 68 



are primarily or secondarily 
the cause of death 114-17, 139-42 
Bokitansky. cases of fatt^ degen- 
eration of Liver and Kidneys . 148 

Schroeder, cotton-wool as a filter 181 
Schwann, putrefaction of meat . 180 
Sherries, wine known under the 
generic name of, historical 
notice of their use in England 
&c 69-70 



see also Wines (Spanish) 

Sickness, see Disease, 
Sick-room, special recipes, direc- 
tions and appliances for 109-17 
Sleep ..:... 30 

importance of maintaining 

due proportion of . • .30 

in London . . ." . 372 

Smoking, influence of . .36 
Soup^ invalid . . . .113 
Specialities, narrow, in Medicine 2 
Spirits, ixihle of analyses of . 79 
ardent, their peculiarities 61 



Spirituous liquors, acid and su 
gar in 

see Alcohol 

Starch, on the special action of 
the pancreas on . . . 

Steatosis of liver and kidney . 

Suet and milk .... 

Supper, unwholesomeness of a 
lato substantial . . . 



61 



185 
149 
114 

46 



Tables of the composition of 
articles of food . . .51 

— — of Normal Diet for adults 
in the climate of the United 
Kingdom .... 63-9 

of Alcohol in spiiituous 

liquors 79 

of Mr. Banting's diet . 83 

of Diets, for Consump< 



tion, (carbo-hydrate, albumi- 
noid, and fluid) . . 98-100 

of Diet for Diabetes . 101 

of the vestiges and inter- 
dependence of diseases . 130-6 
Teething, retarded, caused by 

rickets 139 

Temperature, sudden changes 

of, as a cause of colds . . 26 
Thin, getting fat or thin . 6, 83 
Tobacco, influence of . . .36 
Tyndall "Lecture on Dust and 

Disease" 179 

Typhoid, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 134 
lyphus fever^ loss of plasticity 
of Tissues in . . . . 182 

and bread diet 182 

fatal issue in those 

dependent on mere bread diet 188 

vestiges of, the 

causes of other diseases . . 134 



196 



INDEX. 



• PAGE 

Uteras, £&tty defeneration of, 
deaths in childbirth from . 147 



Ventilation and Heatine . . 12 



&ct8 on which ar 



rhich 



rangementB for, are to be 
based 13 

conditions of, for sup- 
ply of fresh air. . . .18 

Yerkrozen (M. A.) Notices of 
German Wines . . . 73 



Walshe, fatality of pneumonia 
from pre-existent organic dis- 
ease . . . ... . 147 

Waterj preference of hot to tepid 
for friction bath . . .34 

— ^ see Baths. 

drinking, spoiling of by 

leakage of drain -water . . 21 

Water-closets, best mode of 
trapping and ventilation of 
Ac 18-20 

Water.proof over-clothing, ne- 
cessity for • . . .28 

Weakness from defective diet, to 
be prevented or at once remov- 
ed 96 

Wet feet, as a cause of colds 28-9 

Whey, directions for making . 112 



PAGE 

Wilks, remarks on sanguineous 
apoplexy, delirium tremens, 
angina pectoris, &c., as con- 
nected with fatty degenera- 
tion 145-7 

Wines, table of analyses of .^ . 79 
— ^^ properties of various, 
summary of sources of infor- 
mation on . . . 62-3 
in general, notices of 



amount of fermentation and 
distinctive characters, strength 
per cent., &c., by James L. 
Johnston .... 64-8 

German, notices of by M. 

A. Verkruzen . . . 73 

German^ valuable quaJi- 



ties of, principal growths &c. 73-4 

Greek, properties of, by 

J. L. Denman . . . .72 
Hungarian, notices of the 



different kinds of, by Max 

Greger 76 

Spanish, description ot 

by F.W. Cozens . . 69-72 
"Winter Cough" Lectures on, 

extracts from . . . 26-9 
• per centage of 

causes of fresh colds in . .26 
WoUowicz (Count) experiments 

on the effects of Alcohol on 

the human body . . 162-71 
Woollen material, necessity for, 

next the skin in winter 26, 27 



LONDON : PRINTED BY H. K. LEWIS, QOWBR STREET, W.C, 



NEW BOOKS 



PUBLISHED AND SOLD BY 



H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET. W.C. 



A Text Book of Practical Medicine, witfi particular refer- 

EiVCE TO PHYSIOLOGY and PATHOLOGICAL ANA- 
TOMY. By Dr. FELIX von NIEMEYER. Translated from 
the Eig-hth German Edition, by special permission of the 
Author, by Georgk H. Humphreys, M.D., and Charles E. 
Hackley, M.D. 2 vols, large 8vo. 36s. 

" The publication of these volumes brings within the reach of the busy prac- 
titioner, the student, and the teacher in our schools, one of the best text-books 
in any language. As the translators say, ' Professor Niemeyer's volumes pre- 
sent a concise and well-digested epitome of the results of ten years of carefully 
rendered clinical observation by the most illustrious medical authorities of 
Europe,' elaborated, we may add, by a most able teacher and an experienced 
physician. . . . Not the least valuable part of the book will be found in the 
therapeutical sections ; and the numerous formulae, which are given most clearly, 
will prove a boon to many a hardworked practitioner." — Brit, and For, Med, 
Chir. Review. 

*' The task of a reviewer is an easy and glorious one in noticing such a work 
as this. It is at once comprehensive and concise ; it is characterised by clear- 
ness and originality and it differs from many German works on Medicine in the 
sagacious appreciation of the value of therapeutics which is manifested by the 
author .... We can cordially recommend the work as one from the perusal of 
which every physician may derive profit, which will be found replete with infor- 
mation of direct practical value, and which is instinct with a spirit of candid 
and earnest inquiry, which is worthy of all praise. The translation on the 
whole, is very creditably performed, and the volumes are handsomely brought 
out." — Dublin Quarterly journal of Med. Science. 

A Hand-book of Tfierapeutics. By Dr. Sydney Ringer, 

M.D., Professor of Therapeutics in University Colleg-e. New 
Edition, thoroughly revised. Small 8vo, los 6d. 

" This treatise on Therapeutics at once assumed the first position among kindred works on 
the subject in the English language In condusion, we have great pleasure in recom- 
mending this treatise." — Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, Jan. 1872. 

" On the whole we can speak very highly of the volume in its present form, as a most useful 
and handy book to the practitioner and student." — Lancet, Nov. 23, 1871. 

A Treatise on Haemophilia sometimes called the Heredi- 

TARY HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. By J. WICKHAM 
LEGG, M.D., Casualty Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospi- 
tal. Fcap. 4to, cloth, 7s 6d. 

*' Dr. Legg deserves the thanks of the profession for this exceedingly painstaking and labo- 
rious compilation, which, containing as it does the opinions of 163 writers who have touched 
upon the disease, cannot fail to impart to its readers as much learning on the subject as it is 

possible to derive from mere book-reading We are deeply indebted to Dr. Legg for this 

painstaking monograph, which comes before the world in a most elegant form, and is a credit 
alike to tl)e author and publisher." — Lancet. 



List of New Books Puhliahed by U, K, Leuna, 



Outlines of Pictorial Diagnosis of Diseases of Womeh. 

By Dr. GRAILY HEWITT, Professor of Midwifery and Dis- 
eases of Women in University College, 4to, 6s. 

Lithotomy and Lithotrity: Illustrated by Cases in the 

Practice of Gurdon Buck, M.D., Visiting- Surgeon to the 
York Hospital, &c., &c. 8vo, cloth, 4s 6d. 

Remarks on Diabetes, especially in Reference to Treat- 
ment, By WILLIAM RICHARDSON, M.A., M.D., 
M.R.C.P. LoND. Demy 8vo, cloth, 4s 6d. 

" Contains the personal experience of a sufferer from Diabetes After a long trial of 

the most approved remedies, he was fortunate enough to hit upon a plan of treatment oy which 
also other diabetic patients have much." — Dublin Journal of Medical Science^ April, 1872. 

" Dr. Richardson, who has himself suffered from Diabetes in its milder form for many years, 
has entered on this part of the subject with much earnestness. His remarks on treatment will 
repay persual." — Brit and For^ Med,-Chir. Review, April, 1872. 

" Finally, we again recommend this as a book well worthy the attention of the Profession 

As the work of a diabetic it is sure to contain everything of importance on the subject ; 

as that of a man who has cured himself, it is certain to contain rules and axioms which others 
may follow."— Med. Times and Gazette. 

Digitalis: its Action and its Use. An Inquiry Illustrat- 
ing the Effect of Remedial Agents over Diseased Conditions 
of the Heart. The Hastings Prize Essay of the British Medi- 
cal Association for 1870. By J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, 
M.D. Small 8vo, cloth, 2s 6d. 

" A valuable contribution to therapeutical science, and well deserves a thoughtful perusal 
both on account of the experimental and clinical evidence which it adduces, and oi the valuable 
suggestion which it offers for the treatment of a very numerous class of diseases."— ^nY. and 
For. Med.-Chir. Review, April, 1872. 

" This Essay is one which should be in the Library of every Pcactitioner.** — Edin. Med. 
Journal, Nov^ 1871. 

By the Same Author, 

The Heart and its Diseases : with their Treatment, 8vo. 

In the press. 

Quarterly Journal of Practical Therapeutics. — No 1, 
July 1871. Large 8vo, 2s 6d per no., or lOs per Annum. 

NEW REMEDIES. A Quarterly Retrospect of Thera- 

peutics. Pharmacy, arwl Allied Sciences. Edited by Horatio 
C. Wcx)D, Jr. M.D. 

The Practical Medicine of To-day : Two Addresses delivered 

before the British Medical Association, and the Epidenxiological 
Society. By SIR W. JENNER, Bart., M.D, Small 8vo, 
cloth, is6d. 



List of New Books Published hij H, K. Lewis, 



Disinfectants and How to Use Tfiem. By E. T. Wiison, 

M.B. Oxon., F.R.C.P. Lond., Assoc. Metrop. Assoc. Med. 
Offs. Health, Physician to the Cheltenham General Hospital 
and Dispensary. In packets of one dozen, price one shilling. 

The importance of Disinfection is now fully understood ; there seems however to be a. 
danger lest an ignorant or an imperfect employment of disinfecting substances may lead to a 
misplaced feeling of security. The right choice of a disinfectant and the manner of its use 
are important elements in its successful application. In Dr. Wilson's little card full directions 
are given as to the strength of the various disinfecting solutions, also how and when to use them. 
To these are added rules, clear and concise, for the guidance of nurses and others in charge of. 
sick — with a list of the legal restrictions placed upon infected persons. 

The card will be foynd peculiarly suitable for heads of families, clergymen,, and nurses ; or 
for distribution amongst the artisans and tradesmen of our larger towns. 

Vesico-vaginal Fistuia, from Parturition and other causes. 

With Cases of Recto-vaginal Fistula. By Dr. T. A. 
EMMET. Large 8vo, 12s. 

General Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics, in fifty 

Lectures, A text-book for Students and Physicians. By Dr.. 
THEODOR BILLROTH, Professor of Surgery Vienna. 
Translated from the fourth German edition, with special per- 
mission of the author, by C. E. Hackley, M.A., M.D. i8s. 

" Professor Billroth has long been recognised as one of the most scientific of living surgeons, 
his lectures forming one of the most popular text-books of Surgery in the German language. 
They have already gone through four Editions in German, and been translated into all the 

chief European languages, English being the last The want of a book in the English 

Language presenting in a concise form the views of the German pathologists has been long 
felt, and we venture to say that no book could more perfectly supply that want than the present 

volume It would be impossible to give any idea of the amount of matter in this volume 

which will be new to those not familiar with German literature, without giVing a summary of 
the greater part of the pathology it contains ; and we have no desire to do this„ as we should 
recommend every one interested in the science of surgery to read the book for himself." . . . 
*' With regard to the practical part of the book we have but little to say. It shows, as far as 
mere writing can, that, great as Professor Billroth undoubtedly is m theory, he is not far 

inferior in practice On the whole, this work will be most welcome in this country as 

supplying a want which must have been felt by all real students of surgery »" — Lancet^ July i, 1871.. 

" Eminently satisfactory as a treatise on the ^inciples of Surgery.. The histological and 
pathological groundwork of surgical science is laid down by Billroth with admirable clearness.. 
He shows a perfect grasp of the value of the investigations whoseresults he sums up, and an 
excellent appreciation of their bearing on practice. His diagrams of specimens are numerous. 

and valuable Destined for a wide popularity amongst surgeons." — British Medical 

Journal, July i, 1871. 

" Very few medical works have had the good fortime to attain, in so short a time, the universal 
popularity enjoyed by Dr. Billroth's volume on Surgical Pathology ; and Dr. Hackley, the able- 
translator, has conferred a boon on the English-reading members of the profession in this 
country and Great Britain, by placing within their reach the latest views and opinions of one of 
the most progressive pathologists of the age. Indeed we cannot be too thankful for the accuracy 
and elegance of the translation, remembering, as we must, how grievously some writers have 
suffered at the hands of their translators.''— N^ur York Medicat Record, June i, 1871. 

A Treatise on Diseases of the Bones. By Thomas A/. 

Markoe, M. D., Professor of Surgery in the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Surgeon of the New York Hos~ 
pital, Surgeon of Bellevue Hospital, &c., &c. New York^ 
illustrations, large 8vo, 13s. 



List of New Books Puhlished by II. K. Tew Li. 



Cazeaux's Obstetrics : A Theoretical and Practical trea- 

TISE on MIDWIFERY, including the DISEASES of 
PREGNANCY and PARTURITION. Revised and Annota- 
ted by S. Tarnier. Translated from the Seventh French 
Edition by Bullock. Royal 8vo, over iioo pag-es. 172 
Illustrations. 30s. 

" It is unquestionably a work of the highest excellence, rich in information, and perhaps 
fuller in details than any textbook with which we are acquainted. The author has not merely 
treated of every question whi^h relates to the bujiness ut parturition but he has dune so with 
judgment and ability." — Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rcvieu/. 

" M. Cazeaux's book is the most complete we have ever seen upon the subject." — N.A. Med.- 
Ckir. Review. 

The Treatment of Venereal Diseases : A Monograph on the 

Method pursued in the Vienna Hospital, under the direction 
of Prof, von Sigmund, including all the formulae. By M. H. 
Henry, M.D., Surgeon to the New York Dispensary, &c., 
&c. ; adapted are arranged from the German, 8vo, cloth, 
4s 6d. 

On Intra-Thoracic Cancer. By Dr. John Cockle, MA 

Physician to the Royal Free Hospital. 8vo, 4s 6d. 

A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children. By 

Dr. A. VOGEL. Translated and edited by H. Raphael, 
M.D. From the fourth German Edition, illustrated by six 
lithographic plates, part coloured, large 8vo, 600 pages, iSs. 

" Several excellent lithographic plates, and the admirable way in which the volume is got up, 
add to the attractiveness of Ur. Vogel's work. Dr. Vogel is more a physician than a surgeon ; 
and he is clearly a physician of no mean order, judged either from a pathological or a chnical 
standpoint. When he treats a subject exhaustively he produces an essay, clear yet elaborate, 
which inspires the reader with confidence that the author believed himself to have the best 
possible reasons for all that he says. Of Dr. Vogel, as a medical practitioner, we would only 
say that he seems to belong to the comparatively small class of physicians who, when they 

five a medicine, have a clear notion of the effects which they desire it to produce.' — £W/. Med. 
ournal. 

Electricity in its relation to Practical Medicine. By Dr. 

MORITZ MEYER. Translated from the third German 
Edition, with notes and additions by William A. Hammond, 
M.D. With illustrations, large Svo, 500 pages, cloth, iSs. 

** Meyer's book is well known. ... He has himself made no sli^^ht original contributions of 
electro-therapy. Dr. Hammond deserves our hearty thanks for his translation, a boon which is 
as much for us as for his own countrymen." — Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review. 

" The number of editions through which Dr. Meyer's work has passed in Germany attest the 
esteem in which it is there held, and we do not doubt that an equal measure of approbation will 
be accorded to it in this country."— Dw6/w Quarterly Journal of Med. Science. 

" May be taken as an intelligent guide in studying the subject. Since its first appearance in 
1834 it has gradually won its way through three editions ; till, in its present form it takes rank 
as the approved text-book of the subject in Germany. Dr. Hammond has, therefore, done good 
•ervice in placing it within the reach of English readers" — Journal of Mental Science. 



List of New Boohs Fuhlislied hjf fl. K. Lewis, 



On Diet and Regimen in Siclcness and Health, and on tfie 

interdependence and Prevention of Diseases and the diminution 
of their fatality. By HORACE DOBELL, M.D., Senior Phy- 
sician to the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, &c. 
Fifth revised and enlarged Edition, small 8vo, cloth, 5s. 

By the same Author. 

Affections of the Heart and its Neighbourhood. Cases, 

Aphorisms, and Commentaries. Illustrated by the Heliotype 
process, 8vo, cloth, 6s 6d. 

« 

A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children, By Dr. 

J. FORSYTH MEIGS, M.D., Fellow of the College of Phy- 
sicians of Philadelphia, etc., etc., and WILLIAM PEPPER, 
M.D., Physician to the Philadelphia Hospital, etc., etc. Fourth 
Edition, roy. 8vo, cloth, cut edges, pp. 920, 26s. 

" There is but little to find fault with compared with what there is to praise, and perhaps if we 
had said all we felt we might endanger the value of our praise by over-laudation. It is the 
most complete work on the subject in ourlauguage ; it contains at once the results of personal 
observation and the experience of others ; its quotations from the most recent authorities, both 
home and foreign, are ample ; and we think the authors deserve congratulation for having pro- 
duced a book unequalled for the use of the student, and indispensable as a work of reference for 
the practitioner." — American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1870. 

" It is a work of mors than goo good American pages, and is more encyclopaedia! than clinical. 
But it is clinical, and withal most effectually brought up to the light, pathological and therapeuti- 
cal, of the present day The thoroughly fresh nature of the book is seen in the care with 

which certain articles have been written. Such are those on Rickets and Tuberculosis, Infantile 
Atrophic Paralysis, and Progressive Paralysis. We are glad to add this work to our library. 
There are few diseases of children which it does not treat of fully and wisely in the light of the 
latest physiololgical pathological, and therapeutical science." — Lancet, 

Human Anatomy: forming a complete series of Questions 

and Answers for the use of Medical Students. By M. 
REDMAN. 2 vols., i2mo, cloth, price los. 6d. 

The Membrana TympanI in Health and Disease. By 

Dr. A. POLITZER. Illusrated by 24 Chromolithographs. 
Clinical Contributions to the Diagnosis and Treatment of 
Diseases of the Ear, with Supplement. Translated by Dr. 
Matthew, Sen., and Dr. Newton. Large Svo, 15s. 

A Guide to the Examination of the Urine; Intended chief- 
ly for Clinical Clerks and Students. By Dr. J. WICKHAM 
LEGG, M.D., Casualty Physician to St. Bartholomew's 
Hospital. Third Edit., revised and enlarged, fcap. Svo, cL 
2s 6d. • 

" Wc are glad to welcome this little work. . Just what was wanted." — British Med. Journal 

" This little work forms a concise guide to the complete * clinical' examination of the urine : 
. The work is a very handy one, and we recommend the student to make it his companion ii> 
the wards of the hospital."— La»c0^ 



List of New Bonks Pvhlished by H. K, Lewis, 



What is Malaria ? and wliy is it most intense in Hot Cli- 

MATES ? An Explanation of the Nature and Cause of the 
so-called Marsh Poison, with the Principles to be observed 
for the preservation of Health in Tropical Climates and 
Malarious Districts. Dr. C. F. OLDHAM, Assistant Sur- 
g*eon H.M. Indian Forces. Fellow of the Royal Medical and 
Chirurg-ical Society. Late in charge of Dalhousie Sanitarium. 
8vo. 7s. 6d. 

" What is Malaria ? . . . To answer this question Mr. Oldham now addresses himself, having 
made careful investigations, not only by studying the writings of others, but, which is of much 
greater value, by studying the disease itself." . . . . " Mr. Oldham's work shows much and 
careful research, and containing much information in a small space, will well repay perusal." — 
Dublin Quarterly^ May, 1871. 

*' Mr. Oldham discusses the question in a manner likely to attract the reader. He offers 
valuable criticisms on current views, and points out with great force their inadequacy to account 
for many phenomena of common occurrence. ... It is full of suggestions, and if the author's 
theory is not so satisfactory as we could wish, he is far more successful in attacking the theories 
of others." — Medical Press and Circular^ May 31, 1871. 

" In the preceding abstract we have endeavoured to lay before our readers Dr. Oldham's 
views as to the cause of diseases which have been hitherto attributed to malaria. There is, 
certainly much in them that is novel to those who are acquainted onl^ with the works of the 
most popular writers on malarial disease ; and we certainly cannot re^uic b::n the tribute due 
to one who has good opportunities of studying the subject, and has made giod use of them. 
We And ourselves, however, not fully convinced by his arguments, although we confess he has 
done much by them to destroy the wavering faith we reposed in the more generally accepted 
theory."— i4wmca#» Journal 0/ Medical Science, 

A Practical Treatise on tiie Medical and Surgical Uses of 

ELECTRICITY, Including- Localised and general Electrisa- 
tion. By BEARD and ROCKWELL. With 102 illustra- 
tions. 8vo, cloth, 21s. 

" It is beautifully printed and profusely illustrated, in a way which cannot fail to be most use- 
ful to students. The matter of the volume is admirably arranged, better than any book of the 
kind which I have seen They have perfected, if they did not originate, a method of electro- 
therapy which they call ' general faradisation,' and which they put forward as deserving of care- 
ful attention."— Dr. T. Clifford Allbutt in " British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review,** 
July, 1871. 

On Abscess and Tumours of tiie Orbit By Spencer 

WATSON, Surgeon to the Great Northern aud Central 
London Ophthalmic Hospitals. 8vo, 6s. 

Morbid Conditions of tiie Tiiroat, in tiieir relation to Pul- 

MONARY CONSUMPTION. By Dr. SCOTT ALISON. 
Post 8vo, 3s. 6d. * 

On Intermittent Malaise. By Dr, H, Adams, 8vo, Is. 
An Exposition of the Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy; 

with some other papqrs on subjects connected with Midwifery. 
DR. W. F. MONTGOMERY, Late Professor of Midwifery 
at King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland, etc. 
Coloured plates. Second Edition, 8vo, cloth, (12s 6d. net,) 
pub. 25 s. 



List of New Books Published by JEt, K. Lewis. 



The Diseases of the Ear: Their Diagnosis and Treatment 

By J. TOYNBEE, F.R.S. With Supplement by James Hinton, 
Demy 8vo, 8s. 6d. 

" Great credit is due to Mr.HiNTON for the manner in which he has supplemented the labours 
of his deceased friend. The work in its new form constitutes a most reliable guide to the treat- 
ment of aural disease, and is without a rival in the English language."— Lancet. 

The mantle of the master has fallen upon a worthy successor, and in the hands of its present 
accomplished editor the volume will maintain its high position as the first text-book on the 
subject." — Med. Times & Gazette. 

On the Advantages of the Starched Apparatus in the Treat- 

MENT OF FRACTURES and DISEASES of JOINTS. Being 
the First Part of an Essay to which 'the Council of University 
College Awarded the Liston Clinical Medal. By JOSEPH S, 
GAMGEE. Denty Svo, cloth, with illustrations, 5s. 

A Guide to Trefriw and the Vale of Conway Spa, By 

JOHN W. HAYWARD, M.D., M.R.C.S., L.S.A. Se- 
cond edition, rewritten ; with much new matter, and a new 
analysis of the waters. Fcap. Svo, is 6d. 

A Treatise on Intra-ocuiar Tumours, From original Ciin^ 

ical Observations and Anatomical Investigations. By Dr. 
H. KNAPP, Late Professor of Ophthalmology, and Surgeon 
to the Ophthalmic Hospital, Huidelberg. Plates. Translated 
by Dr. Cole, Large Svo, i6s. 

On Epilepsy: Anatomico-pathological and Clinical Notes, 

with original Coloured Plates and Engravings. By M. C. 
ECHEV^RRIA, M.D., Professor of Mental and Nervous 
Diseases at the Medical College of New York, &c» Large 
Svo, 22s. 

The Climatic Treatment of Consumption and Chronic 

LUNG DISEASES. By Dr. J. C. THOROWGOOD. Third 
Edition, post Svo, cloth, 3 s. 6d. ' 

On the Principal Varieties of Pulmong/y Consumption, 

with Practical Comments on Diagnosis, Prognosis and Treat- 
ment. By R. D. POWELL, M.D. Lond. Member of the Royal 
College of Physicians, London ; Senior Assistant Physician 
to the Hospital for Consumption a^id Diseases of the Chest, 
Brompton ; Lecturer on Materia Medica at the Charing Cross 
School of Medicine and Assistant Physician to the Hospital 
Sm. Svo, cloth, 3s 6d. 



8 List of Nfiw Books PuhlisJied hy H. K. Lewis. 



The Contagious Diseases Acts. A paper read before the 

Medical Society of University College, London. By SHIRLEY 
DEAKIN. 8vo. is. 

The Nursing Schedule. To be used in Fevers, Inflammations 
of Surgical Cases, and other acute Illnesses. In packets 
reporting 14 days and 14 nights, is. 

On Human Entozoa and the Disorders produced by Worms. 

With numerous Engravings and a Glossary of Terms. By 
Dr. ABBOTT'S SMITH, demy Svo, ss. pp. 257. 

Qn the Restoration of Health. By Dr. T Inmam 

Physician to the Royal Infirmary, Liverpool, &c. Demy 8vo> 
cloth, 7s. 6d. 

" It would be unfair to deny that Dr. Inman often makes some pithy remarks, and that though 
as a general rule, he is needlessly aggressive and uncharitable \o his brother practitioners, 
his criticisms are occasionally as just as they are vigorous. His remarks on myalgia are well 

worthy of attention Some of his remarks on pathology and treatment are worthy of 

attention, as coming from an experienced physician of a sceptical and inquiring turn of mind.'* — 
Edin. Med. Journal. 

By the same Author. 

On the Preservation of Health. Second Edit. Demy 8vo, 5s. 

•• No father or mother of a family, whether young or old, could read it without advantage. 
It deals with subjects very important for men and women to know*'. — Athenaum. 

Remarks on Army Surgeons and their works. Dr. C. A. 

GORDON, Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals, Army 
Medjcal Department. Demy 8vo, 5s. 

Observations in the Military Hospitals of Dresden, 

By ALEXANDER BRUCE. 8vo, is. 

By the same Author. 

An Epitome of the Venereal Diseases, being a succinct 

account of the well established and more important facts relat- 
ing to these diseases. i2mo, is. 

Analysis of Musical Sounds with illustrative figures of the 

ratios of vibrations of musical intervals and their compounds, 
temperament, harmonic vibration, resultant sounds, &c. &c. 
By J. H. GRIESBACH, sm. folio, cloth, £1 Ss. 



