
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



-'7- 




r/APPlEDORE\ 





RADCUFFE COLLEGE UBRARYj 



WOMAN'S ARCHIVES 
Gift of 



Mrs Berbert Roamer 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 






i : - ' t /-^ 



^^CV^< 



r 

c. ^ 



^^ 









/•' 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



THE 



APPLEDORE COOK BOOK: 



CONTAINING 



f vacttat §tttip^ 



PLAIN AND RICH COOKING. 



By M. PARLOA. 



BOSTON: 
GRAVES AND ELLIS, 

20 COBNBILL. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 187S, 

By M. PARLOA, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 






Btereotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundiyt 
No. 19 Spring Lane. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PREFACE. 



In offering this little book to the public, I am aware 
that there are many good cook books in the market 
already. But I trust that this will supply a want 
which has always been felt by young housekeepers. 
The great trouble with all the cook books which I 
have known (and I am constantly hearing the same 
complaint) is, that they are too expensive, and that 
they use weight instead of measure, and also that they 
take for granted that the young housekeeper knows 
many things which she really does not This want I 
have endeavored to supply in this little volume. Hav- 
ing had years of experience as a cook in private fam- 
ilies and hotels, I know the wants of the masses, and 
feel competent to supply them. 

I have arranged this book in two parts — one for 
plain, and one for rich cooking. In the First Part will 

3 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



4 PREFACE. 

be found rainute directions for cooking everything that 
is within the reach of an ordinary family. In Part Sec- 
ond will be found directions for richer cooking. TJiere 
is not one receipt in the book which has not been 
proved to be good. There are very few which I have 
not used myself, and of the value of those I am fully 
assured, having seen nearly all of them tried. The 
rules for jellies, charlotte russe, and creams will be 
found to be worth twice the price of the book. Many 
of the visitors to the Rockingham House, Portsmouth, 
N. H., Pavilion Hotel, Wolfborough, N. H., McMillan 
House, North Conway, N. H., and the Appledore 
House, Isle of Shoals, will find many dishes with 
which they expressed themselves pleased while the 
writer was pastry cook at those houses. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 



PA.RX nRST. 



FISH. 

PAQB 

Fhh Chowder 13 

Fish Chowder 14 

Clam Chowder 14 

Clam Chowder, No. 2. . . 15 

Boiled Cod. < 15 

Fried Cod 16 

Broiled Cod, or Scrod. . . 16 

Baked Cod 16 

Tongues and Sounds. ... 17 

Salt Cod Fish 17 

Broiled Salt Fish 18 

Salt Fish in Cream. • • . . 19 

Fish Balls 19 

Another Mode 19 

Another Mode 19 

Fish Hash 20 

Boiled Halihut 20 

Fried Halibut 21 

Broiled Halibut. ..... 21 

Smoked Halibut 21 

Boiled Salmon 21 

Fried Salmon 22 

Broiled Salmon 22 

Salmon Trout 22 

Shad and Haddock.*. ... 22 

Fresh Mackerel Boiled. . . 22 



Broiled Mackerel 22 

Fried Mackerel 23 

Baked Mackerel '23 

To Broil and Fry Salt Mack- 

erei. ......... 23 

Salt Mackerel in Cream. . 23 

To Boil Salt Mackerel. . . 24 

Smelts 24 

Brook Trout 24 

To Boil Lobster 25 

Stewed Lobster 25- 

Curried Lobster 25 

Eels Fried 25 

Baked Eels 26 

Remarks in regard to Fish. 26 

SOTJI>S. 

Beef Soup 27 

Mutton Broth 27 

Mutton Broth, No. 2. ... 28 
Dumplings for Soup. . . .28 

Veal Soup 29 

Pea Soup 29 

Iwa:BA.TS. 

Boiled Corned Beef. .... 31 

Boiled Salt Tongue. ... 3a 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS. 



Boiled Fresh Tongue. ... 32 

Boiled Flank of Beef. ... 33 

Boiled Ham 33 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. . . 33 

Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. 34 
Boiled Leg or Shoulder of 

Lamb 34 

Boiled Fowl and Pork. . . 34 

Boiled Veal 35 

Boiled Turkey 35 

Roast Beef. 36 

Roast Mutton 37 

Roast Lamb 38 

Roast Veal 38 

Rqast Pork 39 

Broiled Beefsteak 39 

Fried Beefsteak 40 

Beefsteak Smothered in On- ^ 

ions 40 

Italianed Beef. 41 

Stewed Beef 41 

Fricassee of Beef. 42 

Mutton Chops 42 

Mutton Pie with Tomatoes. 42 

Mutton Pie, Plain 42 

Mutton Fricassee 43 

Haricot of Mutton 43 

Minced Mutton 43 

Lamb Chops 44 

Broiled Veal 44 

Fricassee of Veal 44 

Veal Cutlets 45 

Veal on Toast 45 

Veal Croquettes. 45 

Pork Steak 46 

Fried Salt Pork 46 

Broiled Salt Pork 46 

Salt Pork Fried in Batter. . 46 

Fried Sausages 47 

Broiled Sausages 47 



Pigs* Feet Soused". .... 47 

Fried Pigs* Feet 48 

Pigs* Feet Fried in Batter. . 48 

Pigs* Head Cheese 48 

Fi^ed Ham 49 

Broiled Ham 49 

Ham and Eggs 49 

Fried Liver. . , 50 

Broiled Liver 50 

Boiled Tripe 50 

Broiled Tripe 50 

Fried Tripe 51 

Soused Tripe 51^ 

Tripe Fried in Batter. ... 51 

Calf s Head and Pluck. . . 51 
Hash made from Calf s Head 

and Pluck 52 

Meat Hash 52 

Boiled Potatoes 55 

Mashed Potatoes 55 

Browned Potatoes 56 

Baked Potatoes 56 

Fried Potatoes 56 

Fried Boiled Potatoes. ... 57 

Potatoes warmed with Pork. 57 

Potatoes warmed in Gravy. 58 

Fricassee of Potatoes. ... 58 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. . . 58 

Baked Swefet Potatoes. . . 58 

Boiled Onions 58 

Fried Onions 59 

Boiled Squash 50 

Baked Squash 59 

Beets 60 

Pickled Beets 60 

Shelled Beans 60 

Baked Beans. . . - 60 

String Beans 61 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS. 



Stewed Beans 6i 

Green Peas 6i 

Green Corn 63 

Boiled Turnips 62 

Boiled Parsnips 62 

Fried Parsnips 62 

Boiled Carrots 63 

Boiled Rice 63 

Another Mode 63 

Stewed Tomatoes 64 

Sliced Tomatoes 64 

Baked Tomatoes 64 

AsparaguR 65 

Spinage 65 

Cabbage ^ • . . 65 

Cauliflower .66 

Dandelions 66 

Beet Greens 66 

Macaroni Boiled 67 

Hop Yeast 69 

Hop Yeast, No. 2 69 

Potato Yeast 70 

Yeast Bread 70 

Yeast Bread, No. 2 71 

Milk Yeast Bread 72 

Graham Bread 73 

Third Bread 73 

Brown Bread 73 

Brown Bread, No. 2. . • . 74 

Brown Bread, No. 3. ... 74 

Raised Biscuit 74 

Raised Biscuit, No. 2. . . . 75 

White Mountain Rolls. . . 76 

Parker House Rolls. ... 76 

Coffee Rolls. . 76 

Bunns 77 

Soda Biscuit 77 

Cream of Tartar Rolls. • • 77 



Sour Milk Biscuit 78 

Buttermilk Rolls 78 

Graham Rolls 78 

Graham Rolls, No. 2 . . . . 79 

Corn Rolls 79 

Corn Cake 79 

Corn Cake, No. 2 79 

Corn Cake, No. 3 So 

Corn Cake, No. 4 80 

Rye Drop Cakes 80 

Flour Drop Cakes 81 

Flour Drop Cakes, No. 2. . 81 

Graham Drop Cakes. ... 81 

Mufiins 81 

MuflSns, No. 2 82 

Griddle Cakes 82 

Rice Cakes 82 

Indian Cakes 82 

Corn Dodgers 83 

Bread Cakes 83 

Buckwheat Cakes 83 

Fried Mush 84 

Brown Bread Brewis. ... 84 

Tea Cake 85 

Berry Cake 85 

Plain Cup Cake 85 

Richer Cup Cake 86 

Railroad Cake 86 

Cream Cake 86 

Feather Cake 87 

Sponge Cake 87 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. ... 87 

Allie's Cake. 88 

Raisin Cake. 88 

Apple Cake 88 

Rich Molasses Gingerbread. 89 
Soft Molasses Gingerbread, 

No. 2 89 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



8 



CONTENTS. 



Soil Molasses Gingerbread, 

No. 3 89 

Hard Molasses Gingerbread. 90 
Hard Sugar Gingerbread. . 90 

Ginger Snaps 90 

Molasses Cookies 91 

Vinegar Cookies 91 

Sugar Cookies 91 

Jumbles 92 

Plain Doughnuts 92 

Raised Doughnuts 93 

Boiled Rice ' . . 94 

Boiled Rice, No. 2 94 

Baked Rice 94 

Baked Rice, No. 2. .... 95 

Minute Pudding 95 

Corn Starch Pudding. . . 96 

Quaking Pudding 96 

Bride's Pudding 97 

Bread Pudding 97 

Whortleberry Pudding. . ,. 97 
Plain Whortleberry Pudding. 98 
Boiled Apple Pudding. . . 98 
Boiled Batter Pudding. . . 99 
Baked Apple Pudding. . . 100 

Pan Dowdy 100 

Apple Dowdy 100 

Apple Charlotte loi 



Apple and Sago Pudding. . 101 
Tapioca and Apple Pudding. 102 

Boiled Tapioca Pudding. . 102 

Baked Tapioca Pudding. . 102 

Custard Pudding 103 

Baked Indian Pudding. . 103 

Cottage Pudding 103 

Sponge Pudding 104 

Italian Fritters 104 

Plain Pie Crust 105 

Cream Paste 105 

Sliced Apple Pies 106 

Stewed Apple Pies. . . . io6 

Dried Apple Pies io6 

Berry Pies 107 

Rhubarb Pies 107 

Squash Pies 107 

Cranberry Pies. ..... io8 

Gooseberry Pies 108 

Pumpkin Pies *. 108 

Custard Pies . 108 

Mince Pies 109 

Mock Mince Pies. . • . . • '09 

Lemon Pies no 

Cream Pies no 

Filling for Cream Pies. . no 

Washington Pies i^x 

Remarks in 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS, 



FAJEtT SEOOIVD. 



SOXJI>S. 

PAQB 

Soup Stock 113 

Brown Soup 114 

Brown Soup, No. 2 115 

Brown Soup, No. 3. ... 115 

Vegetable Soup 115 

Julienne Soup 116 

Barley Soup 116 

Sago Soup 116 

Macaroni Soup 116 

Vermicilli Soup 116 

Ox-tail Soup 116 

Tomato Soup 117 

Giblet Soup 117 

Turkey Soup 117 

Chicken Soup 118 

White Soup 118 

Beef Soup 118 

Mock Turtle Soup 119 

Oyster Soup 120 

FISH. 

Baked Cod or Salmon. . • 121 

Scalloped Fish 121 

To clean Poultry .... 122 

Roast Turkey. ...... 122 

Roast Chicken 123 

Roast Goose. ...... 124 

Roast Duck 124 

Roast Partridges 124 

Roast Grouse 125 

Roast Pigeons 125 

Small Birds. ....... 125 



■V^BNTSON". 

FAGl 

Roast Venison 126 

ElSTTRE^i^CETS. 
Stewed Beef with Mush- 
rooms 127 

Fillet of Beef wkh Mush- 
rooms 127 

Alamode Beef. 128 

BouilU Beef. 128 

Bouilli Tongue 129 

Stewed Partridges 129 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 129 

White Fricassee of Chicken. 130 

Chicken Curry. ..... 130 

Chicken Pie 130 

Salad Dressing 130 

Broiled Chicken 131 

Chicken Salad 131 

Lobster Salad 131 

Chicken Patties 131 

Devilled Turkey 132 

Potted Pigeon 132 

Pigeon Pie 132 

Quail Pie 133 

Snipe Pie 133 

Oyster Pie 133 

03'ster Patties 133* 

Oyster Roast 133 

Scalloped Oysters 134 

Fried Oysters 134 

Broiled Oysters 134 

Veal Croquettes 134 

Rice Croquettes 135 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



lO 



CONTENTS. 



Macaroni in Cream. . . . 135 

Queen Fritters 135 

Plain Fritters 136 

Apple Fritters 136 

Pancakes \ . 136 

Baltimore Pudding. . . . 137 

Wedding Pudding 137 

Plum Pudding 138 

Christmas Pudding. . . . 138 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 138 

Snow Pudding 139 

Sauce for Snow Pudding. . 139 

Cocoanut Pudding. . . . 140 

Cocoanut Pudding, No. 2. 140 

Ginger Pudding 140 

Beverly Pudding 141 

Lemon Pudding 141 

Lemon Pudding, No. 2. . . 142 

Corn Pudding. ...... 142 

Boiled Cherry Pudding. . 142 
Baked Whortleberry Pud- 
ding 142 

Appledore Pudding. ... 143 

Bird's Nest Pudding. . . . 143 

Rice Meringue 143 

Pavilion Pudding 144 

Frozen Pudding 144 

Fruit Pudding 144 

Almond Pudding 145 

Sunderland Pudding. . . 145 

Pineapple Pudding. . . . 145 

Omelet Souffle 146' 

Puff Paste 147 

Green Apple Pies 148 

Dried Apple Pies. . . • ; 148 

Peach Pies 148 



Plum Pies 149 

Mince Pies. ..%.... 149 

Lemon Pies 149 

Lemon Pies, No. 2. ... 150 

Marlborough Pies 150 

PUDDINa SAUCES. 

Rich Wine Sauce 151 

Plain Wine Sauce 151 

Lemon Sauce 151 

Vinegar Sauce 152 

DISHES FOB THE SICK. 

Beef Tea 153 

Chicken Broth 153 

Oatmeal Gruel 153'* 

Indian Meal Gruel. . . . 154 

Plum Porridge 154 

Corn Tea. . • 154 

Cream Toast 154 

Wine Whey 155 

Vinegar Whey. 155 

Sour Milk Whey 155 

A good Drink for the Lungs. 155 

Another Drink 155 

Another Drink 156 

Lemonade 156 

Another Beef Tea 156 

Sack Posset 156 

r>BSSER,TS. 

Charlotte Russe 157 

Holland Cream. 158 

Lemon Creams 159 

Velvet Cream 159 

Italian Cream 159 

Chocolate Cream 159 

Blanc-mange made with 

Gelatine 160 

Moss Blanc-mange. . . . 160 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS. 



II 



Blanc-mange in Wine 

Sauce i6i 

Wine Jelly i6i 

Lemon Jelly i6i 

Soft Custf rd 162 

Almond Custard. • • • . 162 

Snowball Custard 162 

Chocolate Custard. . . . 163 

Coffee Custard 163 

Steamed Custards 163 

Baked Custards 163 

Floating Island 164 

Apple Snow 164 

Tipsy Parson 164 

Apple Float 1C4 

Trifle 165 

Wine Whips 165 

Fruit Whips 165 

Mock Sherbert 165 

Cream Cakes 165 

Sponge Drops 166 

Kisses ' • 166 

Cocoanut Drops 167 

Cheese Cakes 167 

Tarts 167 

Directions for Freezing. . 168 
Ice Cream made with Cream. 169 

^ Coffee Ice Cream 169 

Lemon Ice Cream 169 

Chocolate Ice Cream. . . 170 

Lemon Sherbet 170 

Roman Punch 170 

Remarks 171 

One, Two, Three, Four 

Cake 171 

Rich Cup Cake 172 

Concord Cake 172 

Lemon Cake 172 

Harrison Cake 172 



Bangor Cake 

BartlettCake 

Down East Cake. . . • 
New York Cup Cake. . . 
Champagne Cakes. • . 

Queen Cake 

Loaf Cake. . s . . . • 

Raisin Cake 

Tumbler Cake 

Marble Cake 

Composition Cake. , . 
Common Fruit Cake. . . 

Delicate Cake 

Ice Cream Cake. .... 

Crullers • 

Fourth of July Cake. . . 
Ginger Pound Cake. . . 

Pound Cake 

Pound Cake, No. 2. . . 
Wedding Cake. . . .,. 

Gold Cake 

Golden Cake, No. 2. . . 

Silver Cake 

Silver Cake, No. 2. . . 

Sponge Cake 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. . . 
Berwick Sponge Cake. . 

Cocoanut Cake 

Orange Cake 

Filling for Orange Cake . 

Chocolate Cake 

Chocolate Icing 

White Mountain Cake. . 
Vanilla Jumbles 



173 

173 
173 
173 
174 
174 
174 
174 
iH 
17s 
175 
17s 
176 
176 
176 
176 
177 
177 

«77 
177 

178 
178 
178 
178 
179 
179 
179 
179 
180 
180 
180 
180" 
i8i 
181 



I>K.BSEK.^VrES. 

Preserved Peaches 182 

Preserved Pears 183 

Crab Apple Preserves. . . 183 

Preserved Pineapple. • . . 184 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



12 



CONTENTS. 



Preserved Citron Melon. . 184 

Preserved Apples 184 

Preserved Plums 184 

Preserved Cherries. . . . 185 

Preserved Quinces. ... 185 

Raspberry Jam 185 

Barberries Preserved with 

Pears 185 

Barberries Preserved in 

Molasses 186 

Grape Marmalade 186 

Currant Jelly 186 

Currant Shrub 187 

Apple Jelly ; . 187 

Quince Jelly 187 

To Can Berries 188 

Pickled Cucumbers. • • • 189 

T<rmato Pickles 189 

Tomato Pickles, No. 2. . . 190 

Piccalilli 190 

Tomato Catsup. . • • . • 190 

Drawn Butter 191 

Egg Sauce 191 

Oyster Sauce 191 

Celery Sauce * 191 

Caper Sauce 192 

Mint Sauce 192 

Bread Sauce. ...... 192 

Coddled-Apples 192 

Cranberry Sauce 192 

Apple-Sauce 193 

Baked Pears 193 

Stewed Prunes 193 

Dried Apple-Sauce. . . • 193 



Tea 194 

Coffee. .' . . , 194 

Shells 195 

Chocolate 195 

Prepared Cocoa. ..... 195 

£2G»-GhS. 

Boiled Eggs. ...••• 196 

Fried Eggs 196 

Dropped Eggs. , . . ^. . 196 

Poached Eggs 197 

Scrabbled Eggs 197 

Omelets 197 

MISCEIiIiANEOns. 

Buttered Toast 198 

Milk Toast 198 

French Toast 198 

Sandwiches 199 

Oyster Stew 199 

Corn Starch Cake 199 

Seed Cakes 200 

Strawberry Short Cake. . 200 

Cream Cakes 200 

Tapioca Cream 201 

Cider Cake 201 

Veal Loaf. 201* 

Lemon Pies 202 

Hop Yeast 202 

Baked Buckwheat Cakes. . 202 

Frosting 203 

Frosting, No. 2 203 

Whitpot Pudding 203 

Boiled Indian Pudding. . . 204 

Spiced Currants 204 

Chili Sauce 204 

Graham Pies 204 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

PART FIRST. 



FISH. 

ChwvdeTm 

Takb either a cod or haddock ; skin it, loosen the skin 
about the head, and draw it down towards the tail, when 
it will peel off easily. Then run your knife down the 
back close to the bone, which you take out. Cut your fish 
in small pieces, and wash in cold water. Put the head on 
to boil in about two quarts of water, and boil twenty min- 
utes. For a fish weighing six pounds, pare and slice thin 
five good-sized potatoes, and one onion. Place a layer of 
potatoes and onion in the pot, then a layer of fish, dredge 
in a little salt, pepper, and flour. Keep putting in alter- 
nate layers of potatoes and fish until all is used. Use 
about one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teacup of flour, in all. 

Have ready half a pound of salt pork fried brown. Pour 
this over the mixture ; add about two quarts of cold water, 
then strain on the water in which the head has been boiled. 
If this is not water enough to cover, add more cold. Cover 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



14 THE APPLEDORE-COOK BOOK. 

tight, and boil gently thirty minutes. If not seasoned 
enough, add what you please. When it has boiled twenty 
minutes, put in six crackers which have been soaked three 
minutes in cold water. If you wish to add milk and btit- 
. ter, you can do so about five minutes before taking it up ; 
but for my taste, it is much nicer and more natural without 
either. 

Fish Chowder. hb3. t. leiohtoit. 

Four pounds of fish, half cod and half haddock, if you 
can get the two kinds, two onions, six potatoes, eight white 
browns, one quarter of a pound of salt pork, salt, pepper* 
Prepare the chowder as directed in the preceding rule ; 
split the crackers and lay on the top, pour over the whole 
hot water enough to cover, and boil fifteen minutes ; then 
wet two tablespoonfuls of flour with one third of a cup of 
cream. Stir this into the boiling chowder, let it boil up 
once, and serve. When you cannot get the white browns, 
pilot bread will answer. When a very strong flavor of 
onion is desired, use four onions. 



Clam Chowder* 

When intending to have clams in any form, get them 
in the shell if possible, the day before. Place them in a 
tub, and cover with clean water, and throw into this about 
a quart of Indian meal. This fattens them. When ready 
to use the clams, wash them thoroughly, then cover them 
with boiling water, and let them stand ten minutes, when 
they will open easily. Take them from the shell, cut off 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FISH. 15 

the black heads, and put the bodies of the clams in a clean 
dish. Strain the water in which they were scalded into 
the kettle in which you intend to cook your chowder. To 
one peck of clams allow three quarts of water. Let the 
water come to a boil, then thicken with half a cup flour 
which has been mixed with cold water, season with^ pep- 
per and salt Add the clams and a tablespoonful of butter ; 
let it boH ten minutes. A few minutes before dishing, 
drop in three or four broken crackers. 

Clatn Chowder, JVo. 2» 

For one peck of clams take six good-sized potatoes, 
pared and sliced thin, half an onion cut into pieces an 
inch square. Fry quarter of a pound of pork to a nice 
brown ; place the pork and gravy, the potatoes and on- 
ions, in your kettle. Shake over the whole one table- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoohfuls of pepper, and half a cup 
of flour. Strain over this four quarts of the water with 
which you scalded the clams. Place on the fire, and boil 
fifteen minutes, then add the clams and four split crackers ; 
boil ten minutes longer, and serve. 

Bailed Cod. 

Take the head and shoulders of a good-sized cod. 
Scrape and wash clean ; rub a handful of salt into it ; 
flour a cloth and pin the fish in it. Put it into boiling 
water, and boil half an hour. Take the fish carefully fronj 
the cloth, and serve with egg sauce. Potato is the only 
vegetable that is nice with boiled cod. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



X5 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

Fried Cod. 

Cut the fish into squares, wash and wipe dry. Take half 
a cup of flour, half a cup of sifbed Indian meal, and a table* 
spoonful of salt Mix all these thoroughly. Dip the fish 
into the mixture. Have ready a frying-pan with boiling 
fat, half lard and half pork fat ; drop in your fish. Fry 
a dark-brown on one side, then turn and fry the same on 
the other side, but be very careful not to let the fish or fat 
burn. Have your dish hot, and lay your fish on it. Gar- 
nish the sides with the fried pork. 

Broiled Cod, or Scrod. 

Split, wash, and wipe dry a small cod. Rub the grid- 
iron with a piece of fat pork, and lay the fish upon it, be- 
ing careful to have the inside downward. If the fish is 
very thick, cook thirty minutes ; but for an ordinary one, 
twenty minutes will be sufficient. Have the dish, in which 
you intend serving it, warm ; place it upon the fish, and 
turn the dish and gridiron over simultaneously. If the 
fish sticks to the gridiron, loosen it gently with a knife. 
Have some butter warm, but not melted^ with which to 
season it. Shake on a little pepper and salt and send to 
the table« 

Baked Cod. 

Scrape and wash clean a cod weighing four or five 
pounds. Rub into it a heaping spoonful of salt. Make 
a dressing of three pounded crackers, a little chopped salt 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



FISH. 17 

porj:, about one teaspoonful of parsley, a little salt and 
pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Stuff the 
belly with this, and fasten together with a skewer. Lay 
thin slices of pork on the fish, which should be placed on 
a tin sheet that will fit loosely into the baking-pan ; dredge 
with flour. Pour into the pan about half a pint of cold 
water. Baste the fish often while cooking with the water 
which is in the pan. If the water cooks away, add jnore, 
but do not have too much to begin with, or the fish will 
be boiled instead of being baked. Bake one hour. Wlien 
the fish is cooked, turn the gravy into a bowl, then lift out 
the fish upon the tin sheet (from which you can easily 
slide it into the dish upon which you serve it) ; now turn 
your gravy into your baking-pan again, and place it on the 
fire ; when it comes to a boil, thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour, season with pepper and salt. 

N. B. Always use a tin sheet in the baking-pan when 
cooking fish, as you then can preserve the shape. 

Tongues and Sounds. 

Soak the tongues and sounds in cold water over night. 
Put them in cold water and place on the fire. Let them 
boil thirty minutes, and serve with drawn butter. 

Scat Cod Fish. 

Soak a whole fish in cold water over night ; in the morn- 
ing wash clean, and cut off the tail and fins. If you have 
not a fish kettle, place it in a large milk pan, which nearly 
fill with water, cover, and set over a kettle of warm^water. 
2 



Digitized 



by Google 



1 8 THE APPLEDQRB COOK BOOK. 

Let it cook in this way five or six hours. Serve with egg 
sauce and pork scraps. Potatoes, beets, and carrots are 
the vegetables to be served with salt fish. There are but 
few cooks who know how, or, if they do know, who take 
the. pains, to get up a nice salt fish dinner ; but those fami- 
lies who are so fortunate as to have this dish well served, 
consider it equal to a turkey dinner ; therefore I shall give 
minute directions for the preparation of it. One of the 
most essential things is to have everything hot. Have all 
your dishes warm, and dish quickly, that all may go to the 
table at once.. Serve the fish whole ; garnish the dish 
with a few pieces of beet and carrot. Cut your pork, and 
fry anice brown. Boil an Q^'g ten minutes, dip it into cold 
water, and peel off the shell. Cut it up with a silver spoon, 
as a knife blackens it, and put it into the dish in which you 
intend serving the sauce. To a piece of butter the size 
of an Q%%^ add a tablespoonful of flour. Blend these to- 
gether well, and when the dinner is ready to serve, pour 
on a little less than half a pint of boiling water. Xet 
this come to a boil, and pour it upon the egg. Never let 
drawn butter hoil^ as it becomes oily and unpalatable. 
The fish which is left from the dinner will be very nice 
for hash and fish balls. 

Broiled 8aU FisU. 

Cut a square the size you desire, from the thickest part 
of the fish. Take off the skin, and wash clean ; broil over 
clear coals ten minutes, then dip in boiling water, butter, 
and serve. This is a nice relish for breakfast or tea, and 
with bbiled potatoes makes an excellent dinner. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



FISH. 19 

8€Ut JP^h in Creain* 

Tear a ptece of fish into small strips, wash clean, and 
place it in a basin with about a quart of water ; let it 
simmer half an hour. Then pour off the water, and add 
one pint of new milk. When this comes to a boil, thicken 
with one spoonful of flour ; let it boil five minutes, then 
add butter the size of a walnut, and a litde pepper, and 
serve. 

Fish Bans* 

Take the fish lefl from the dinner, put it in your chop- 
ping-tray, being careful that there are no bones in it ; chop 
fine. Pare and boil potatoes enough to have twice the quan- 
tity of potatoes that you have of fish. When cooked, turn 
them into the tray with the fish ; mash fine, and make into 
balls about the size of an egg. Flour the outside lightly ; 
have the fat boiling hot, and fry a light brown. The fat 
should be half lard and half salt pork. Have the slices 
of pork a nice brown, and serve with the fish balls. 

Another Mode* 

Prepare as above ; and to a quantity that will make a 
dozen balls add an egg^ butter half the size of an e^^ 
salt and pepper. Shape and fry as before directed. 

Another Mode. 

Cnop fine one good-sized beet, and mix well with one 
pint bowlful of fish and two of potato. Add to this the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



20 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

pork scraps left from dinner, or, if none have been left, fry 
a few slices of salt pork, and mix the fat with the fish and 
potato. Shape and fry as directed above. 



Fish Hash. 

Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; chop fine cold pota- 
toes, and mix with the fish. Fry brown six good slices 
of salt pork ; take out the pork and turn the hash into the 
fiying-pan ; add half a cup of boiling water ; let this heat 
slowly, stirring often ; then spread smoothly, and brown, 
being careful not to let it burn. When brown, fold it as 
you would an omelet, dish, and garnish the dish with the 
slices of pork. Where pork is objected to, butter can be 
used instead. 

Salt fish, when cooked and chopped, will keep for a 
week, if nothing else is mixed with it. When intending 
to have hash or fish balls for breakfast, the fish should be 
cliopped the night before, and the potatoes should be pared 
and put in cold water. Put the potatoes on the fire as 
soon as ft begins to burn ; they will then be ready for use 
when you are ready for them. 

BoUed JSdHime. 

Pour into a pan about half an inch deep of boiling wa- 
ter ; into this lay the side of the halibut on which is the 
black skin; let this stand a few minutes; then scrape 
with a knife, when the black will be found to peel off 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



FISH. 21 

readily. Wash clean in cold water, then pin it in your fish- 
cloth, and drop it into boiling water. For a piece weigh- 
ing four pounds allow twenty-five minutes to boil. Serve 
with drawn butter. 

JFried Halibut. 

Take a slice of halibut, sprinkle with salt, and dredge 
with flour. Fry four slices of salt pork, add to the pork 
fat one spoonful of lard. When boiling hot put in the 
halibut. Fry a light brown on one side, then turn and fry 
the same on the other. Serve the pork with it. 

Broiled Halibut. 

Grease the gridiron with a little butter, place the hali-^ 
but upon it, sprinkle a little salt over it, and place over 
clear coals. Cook one side ten minutes, then turn and 
cook upon the other side ten more. Have the dish warm ; 
put the fish upon it, season with pepper and butter, and 
send to the table. 

Smoked Halibut. 

Broiled the same as the fresh, omitting the pepper and 
salt. Smoked salmon cooked in the same way. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Salmon is boiled the same as halibut ; served with egg 
sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

Fried ScUnum* 

The sairie as halibut. 

BraUed Salnum. 

The same as halibut 

Salman Trout* 

When large enough, split down the back, clean, and 
broil. Season with butter and salt When small, open 
far enough to take out the insides ; wash clean, and wipe 
diy. Fry the same as cod fish. 

Shcid and Haddock. 

Shad and haddock can be cooked tlie same as cod. 

Fresh Mackerel Boiled* 

If not cleaned, open them at the gills, take out the in- 
sides, wash clean, and pin in a fish-cloth. (Do not use 
the cloth that you use to boil mackerel in for any other 
fish.) Drop into boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes. 
Serve with drawn butter. 

Broiled Mackerel* 

Split down the back and clean. Be careful to scrape 
all the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and lay 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PISH. 23 

on the gridiron ; broil on one side a nice brown, then turn 
and brown the other side ; it will not take so long to brown 
the side on which the skin is. (All fish should have the 
side on which the skin is, turned to the fire last, as the 
skin burns easily, and coals are not so hot after you have 
used them ten minutes.) Season with butter, pepper, and 
salt. 

Fried Mackerel. 

Fry brown six good-sized slices of pork. Prepare your 
mackerel as for broiling. Take out your pork, sprinkle a 
little salt over the mackerel, then fry a nice brown. Serve 
the fried pork with it 

Baked Mackerel* 

Prepare as for boiling. Make a dressing as for baked 
cod. Stuff with this, dredge with salt and flour. Bake 
thirty minutes, basting often with water, butter, and flour. 
Make a gravy with the water in the pan in which the fish 
is baked. Always make the gravy quite salt The best 
way to cook mackerel is to troil it. • 

To Brail and Fry Salt Mackerel. 

Soak over night, and cook the same as fresh. 

8aU Mackerel in Cream* 

Freshen as for broiled mackerel, then lay into a baking- 
pan, and to one mackerel add half a pint of new milk, 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



24 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

put into the oven, and bake twenty-five minutes. About 
five minutes before it is dished, add a small piece of but- 
ter. This is a nice dish for breakfast and dinner. 



To Bail 8€iU Ma>ckerel. 

Wash the mackerel, and soak over night in clear cold 
water. Put them on to boil in cold water, and boil gently 
thirty minutes. Serve with drawn butter. 



Smelts* 

The only true way to cook smelts is to fry them, al- 
though they are sometimes baked. Open them at the 
gills. Draw each smelt separately between your finger 
and thumb, beginning at the tail ; this will press the in- 
sides out. (Some persons never take out the insides, but 
it should be done as much as in any other fish.) Wash 
them clean, and let them drain in a cullender ; then salt 
and roll in a mixture half fiour and half Indian meal. 
Have about two inches deep of boiling fat in the frying- 
pan (drippings if you have them ; if not, lard) ; into this 
drop the smelts, and fry brown. Do not put so many in 
that they will be crowded ; if you do, they will not be crisp 
and brown. 

Brook Trout* 

Brook trout are cooked the same as smelts : or you can 
cook them as the angler does. They must be split near^ 
ly to the tail to clean. Wash and drain. For a dozen 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



insH. 25 

good-sized trout, fiy six slices of salt pork ; ^hen brown^ 
take out the pork, and put in the trout. Fry a nice brown 
on all sides. Serve the pork with them. 

To Bail Lobster* 

. There are comparatively few who ever have anything 
to do with a lobster until after it has been boiled ; but for 
the benefit of the few I insert this. Be sure that the lob- 
ster is living ; if not, it is not fit for use. Have a kettle of 
boiling water ; into this drop the lobster, and boil until 
the shell turns red. This takes about an hour. Take up,' 
and when cold it is fit to eat. 

Stewed- Lobster. 

Take out all the meat from the shell. Chop it, but not 
Une. Put into a basin with a little salt, pepper, butter, 
and half a cup of water to a small lobster. Stew about 
ten minutes. 

Curried Lobster. 

Prepare the lobster as for stew ; when it comes to a bcil, 
add a mixture of a heaping teaspoonful of flour, and 
half a "teaspoonful of Indian curry mixed with cold water. 
Let this boil eight minutes, then serve. 

Eels Fried. 

Skin them ; then turn on boiling water, and let them 
stand in it a few moments; then cut them into pieces 
about three inches long. Fry a nice brown, and serve. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



26 THB APPLBDORS COOK BOOK. 

Baked Eels. 

Prepare as for frying ; then put into a baking-pan, with 
a little water, flour, pepper, and salt. Bake twenty min- 
utes. Make a gravy of the liquor iflr which they were 
baked, adding a little butter. 

Memarhs in regard to Fish. 

Fish should never stand in water, as it spoils the flavor. 
Fish should never be fried in butter. It should always be 
used while fresh. Plain boiled or mashed potatoes should 
always be served with it. Squash and green peas go very 
well with fish also. Always save all that remains afler a 
meal, and warm up, to help out another dish. The re- 
mains of boiled fresh fish can be warmed up in a little 
butter, pepper, salt, and water, as you would stew lobster. 
Cold fried and broiled fish can be placed in a tin pan, and 
set into the oven ten minutes, when it will be found to be 
hot enough. Fish balls can be steamed for ten or fifteen 
minutes, and then set into the oven to get crisp. If you 
have a large piece of boiled fish, which you wish to serve 
whole, place it on a plate, and set into the steamer, and 
steam twenty minutes. If you have drawn butter to warm 
up, do not set it oti the fire, but put it into a bowl, and set 
the bowl into hot water. Cook butter as little as possible, 
as by cooking it becomes oily. When you do use it, al- 
ways add it three or five minutes before taking the dish 
from the fire. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Beef 8aup. 

Every family should have a soup once a week at least 
Always save the bones of roast meats for a soup. Take 
the bones of a roast of beef, break them up so that they 
will go into a soup-pot. Lay them in the pot, dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour. Cut into this one small 
onion ; add three quarts of cold water. Set on the fire, 
and when it comes to a boil, skim it. Let it boil gently 
three hours, then add eight sliced potatoes, and boil 
twenty minutes. Have ready dumplings ; put them in 
and cover tight, and boil ten minutes longer, then dish." 
First take out the dumplings and place in a small platter, 
then turn the soup . into a tureen, being careful to take 
Out the bpnes, and serve. 



MuUon Broth. 

Take a shoulder or neck of mutton, cut into small 
pieces, wash and put into the soup-pot. When' it comes 
to a boil, skim it carefully ; then boil gently *two hours. 
To four pounds of meat add fpur quarts o^ water, and 
half a cup of rice. Do not put in the rire until the m^t 

27 • 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



28 THE APPLEDOBE COOK BOOK. 

has boiled two hours, then add rice, and season with 
pepper, salt, and half an onion ; boil two hours longer, 
and serve. I will give another method, which is better if 
the soup is the only dish for dinner. 



MtOton Broth. Ifo. 2. 

Prepare the meat as for No. i, and to the same quan- 
tity of meat and water add half an onion, one small white 
turnip ; boil two hours, then add one third of a cup of 
rice ; boil one hour and a half longer, then add six sliced 
potatoes. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Boil twen- 
ty minutes, then add the dumplings ; cover tight and boil 
ten minutes, then dish and serve as you would beef soup. 
When preparing the meat for all these kinds of soups, 
cut off all the fat, and fry out for dripping; thus your 
soup will not be greasy, and you will have the fat free 
from the taste of vegetables. • * 

jyumplings for Soup. 

Take one pint of flour (measured before it is sifted), 
turn into a sieve, and measure into it one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one half of saleratus, one half of salt, and 
one of sugar. Run this through the sieve, and wet with 
milk ; have the dough stiff enough to roll. Cut into very 
small cakes, and cook as directed. Be sure tnat your 
soup boils fast enough to get up a good steam, arid keep 
boiling while the dumplings are in the pot; if you do 
ifot, they will be heavy. Some persons like them for a 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



SOUPS. 29 

des&ert When used for that purpose, they should be 
eaten with sirup. 

Veal Soup. 

Take foui pounds of the neck of veal, cut up small and 
wash clean ; put into the soup-pot and cover with six 
quarts of water ; let this come to a boil, then skim off all 
the scum ; boil two hours, add half a cup of rice, and boil 
one hour longer ; then add one third of a cup of flour 
mixed with water, salt, and pepper. Boil gently one and 
a half hours, stirring often to prevent burning ; then add a 
tablespoonful of butter, and dumplings made as directed 
for beef and mutton soup. Potatoes and onions can be 
used as for mutton broth No. 2, and some use a little pork 
to flavor it. 

Pea Soup. 

Pick the peas over-^ that there may be no blemished 
ones among them. Wash and soak over night In the ' 
morning turn off the water and put them in the soup-pot. 
For one quart of peas allow eight' quarts of cold water 
and one pound of lean salt pork, a small piece of celery, 
a little pepper, and half an onion ; boil gently eight 
hours, being very careful that it does not burn. Have a 
large wooden spoon to stir it with. When done, it should 
be thin enough to pour. In boiling, it may become too 
thick ; if so, add boiling water. When cooked, it is 
smooth and rather mealy. If not cooked enough, after 
standing a few minutes the thick part will settle, and the 
top look watery. Have ready six slices of bread toasted 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



30 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

brown, and cut into pieces an inch square ; throw about 
a dozen of these pieces into a tureen, and the remainder 
send to the table dry. Strain the soup through a sieve, 
and serve. If the pork does not salt it enough, use salt. 
This soup is even better warmed over than at first. Some 
persons use soup stock and butter, but it seems to me that 
it is rich enough made in this way, and much healthier. 
The bones left from roast lamb, mutton, and veal can 
all be used to make soups tlie same as those of roast beef. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MS^TS. 



Bailed Corned Beef. 

Wash a piece of beef weighing ten pounds ; put it into 
two gallons of cold water; when it comes to a boil, 
skim carefully and boil very slowly six hours. Some 
boil all kinds of vegetables in the same pot ; but there is 
this objection to this method: you lose the distinctive 
flavor of each vegetable, and the beef is flavored with the 
vegetables, which is very unpleasant when it is cold. 
The vegetables to serve with corned beef are potatoes, 
cabbage, beets, turnips, parsnips, carrots. When the beef 
is simply for one hot dinner, the part of the beef is not of 
so much consequence ; but when it is to be pressed, there 
should be care. taken in the selection of the piece to boil. 
The brisket, the flank, and the thin part of the ribs are 
the best parts to press. Boil as before directed, and take 
out the bones, lay the meat on a large platter, and place 
a tin sheet upon it ; on the sheet place a weight, and set 
in a cool place. When ready to use it, trim the edges, 
and use the trimmings for meat hash. This makes a 
nice dinner with baked potatoes, squash, turnip, and 
macaroni. 

31 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



32 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK* 

Boiled SaU Tangtie. 

Soak the tongue over night ; in the morning pt t on to 
boil in six quarts of cold water, and boil slowly six hours 
if the tongue is large; if not, five will answer. Take it 
from the boiling water and throw it into cold water ^ and 
peel the skin off. Set away to cool. For dinner, use the 
same vegetables as for cold corned beef. The roots will 
make a nice hash. 

Bailed Fresh Tongue. 

Wash and put into four quarts of boiling water, with a 
large handful of salt. Boil slowly six hours, if large. 
When done, throw into cold water, and skin the same as 
the salt tongue. The water in which all meats are boiled 
should be saved until cold, and the fat should be taken off 
and clarified. The liquor should never stand in iron 
kettles, as it rusts them. 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

This is a part of the beef that many persons think 
almost useless ; but by being properly prepared it makes 
an elegant dish. Wash the flank, and make a dressing as 
for turkey, and spread over it, first having salted and 
peppered it well, then roll up and tie. Wind the twine 
round it several times, to keep it in place ; then sew in a 
cloth kept for that purpose. Put a small plate in the pot, 
and put in the meat ; then pour on about six quarts of 
boiling water, and boil gently six hours. When done, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



JtfEATS. 33 

remove the cloth, but not the twine until stone cold ; then 
"cut into thin slices-, and you will have alternate layers of 
meat and dressing. This is a very nice dish for breakfast 
or tea. 

BoUed Ham. 

Have a coarse hair brush for cleaning hams, as it is 
impossible to get them clean by simply washing them. 
If the ham will not fit in the pot, cut off the knuckles, 
which will cook in two hours. Cover with cold water, 
ai d boil. A ham weighing twelve pounds will require 
five hours. When cooked, take up and put into a baking- 
pan, to skin. Have a basin of cold water, into which dip 
the hands ; then take the skin between the fingers, and 
peel as you would aii orange. Roll a crackpr and sift it 
over the ham, then set in the oven thirty minutes. Save 
the liquor in which it was boiled, and skim the fat for 
soap grease. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, 

Take a leg weighing eight pounds, and put into six 
quarts of boiling water ; throw into this half a cup of 
rice. In a few minutes a scum will rise, which must be 
skimmed off carefully. Boil one hour and a quarter ; 
allow five minutes more for every pound over eight 
This time will allow the blood to run, which should 
always be the case with mutton. Serve with caper, 
sauce. The rice gives it a w^hite look. Serve with this 
plain boiled potatoes, turnips, and onions. Save the 
liquor in which the meat was boiled, for soup. 

3 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



34 ^'HB APPL.BDORB COOK BOOK. 

BaUed Shoulder of Mutton. 

Cooked and served the same as the leg. 

BoUed Leg or Shoulder of Lamb. 

For ji leg or shoulder weighing six pounds, allow an 
hour and twenty minutes, and for every pound over that 
allow ten minutes. SerVe with drawn butter or mint 
sauce. Serve with it green peas, potatoes, white turnips. 
If asparagus or spinage is in season, substitute for tur- 
nips. Save the liquor for soup. Lamb, however, is 
always nicer roasted. 

Boiled Fowl and Pork. 

Singe, draw out the inwards, being careful to take out 
the lights and crop. Cut open the gizzard and clean. 
Wash the fowls and put them, with the hearts, livers, and 
gizzards, into boiling water, in which about one pound 
of pork has been boiling three hours. If they are young 
and tender, one hour and a quarter will cook one wieigh- 
ing three pounds. If old and tough, they sometimes take 
three hours. Truss the same as turkey. Serve with 
drawn butter. Dish the pork with the fowls. A little 
rice boiled in the water gives them a white appearance. 
Serve with them mashed turnip, mashed potatoes, boiled 
parsnips or green peas, com or spinage when in season 
Save the liquor for soup. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MEATS. 35 

Bailed Veal. 

Take out the bone from a shoulder of veal, and fill the 
cavity with a dressing made as for poultry ; then fasten 
together with a skewer; wind twine around it, and tie 
tight. Put tliis into a kettle with about a pound of lean 
salt pork, and cover witli boiling water. Boil slowly 
four hours, if it weighs ten pounds. Serve with celery 
sauce, or with a gravy made with one pint of the liquor 
in which it has been boiled, thickening with one heaping 
spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a little butter. Serve 
with boiled potatoes, macaroni and cheese, and horse- 
radish. Save the liquor in which it has been boiled, to 
use next day in making a pie with what remains from the 
dinner. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Singe and wash the turkey, then rub into . it a handful 
of* salt ; stuff it with a dressing made by directions given 
under " Dressing for Poultry." Sew up and put into boil- 
ing water, enough to cover it. For one weighing ten 
pounds allow two hours boiling, and fifteen minutes for 
every added pound. Serve with oyster or celery sauce, 
mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, boiled parsnips, plain 
boiled macaroni. Save the liquor for a soup. Some- 
times a turkey will be very old and tough, in which case 
it will require a longer time to boil ; but a little practice 
and observation will help every housekeeper to under 
stand when to allow more or less time for boiling. Truss 
ihe same as for roasting. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



36 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Roast Beef. 

Meats roasted in a tin kitchen require a longer time to 
cook than in an oven, but they are very much nicer 
cooked in the former. Wring a clean towel out of cold 
water, and wipe the meat with it (if possible, never 
wash beef, as by this means a great deal of juice is lost) ; 
then rub into it a handful of salt, and dredge with flour. 
If cooked in a tin oven, run the spit through it. See that * 
the spit is as near through the middle as possible ; if not, 
it will be difficult to turn it Dredge flour into the kitch-? 
en, and when brown put in a pint of hot water. Cook a 
piece of beef weighing eight pounds an hour and twenty 
minutes if you wish it rare ; if not, cook twenty minutes 
longer. Baste often with pepper, salt, flour, and the 
water in the bottom of the kitchen, and turn often. Ten 
minutes before dishing the dinner, turn the gravy into a 
basin, and skim oft" all thpfat; let it come to a boil, and 
thicken with one large table-spoonful of flour mixed with 
cold water; season with salt and pepper. Serve with 
mashed potatoes, squash, boiled rice, and pickled beets. 
When baked in the oven, one hour will be sufficient for a 
piece weighing eight pounds. Place a grate in the bak- 
ing-pan, and upon the grate lay the meat.' Pnto the pan 
pour a pint of warm water; watch carefully that the 
water does not boil away and the gravy become burned. 
Add but little water at a time, for if there is too much 
the meat will be steamed instead of roasted, and also the 
gravy will not become brown. Baste as ^^hen roasted in 
ft tin oven. Make the gravy as before directed. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MEATS. 37 

Roast Mutton. 

Take out the first joint from a leg of mutton ; ask the 
butcher to do it when you order it. Wash, and rub into it 
a handful of salt. Cut in around the bone, so as to make 
the cavities as large as possible, and fill with a dressing 
made in the following manner: Soak in cold water 
about two quarts of pieces of stale bread. When soft, 
drain in a cullender ; then mix with this half an onion, 
which has been chopped very Jine^ one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, one egg^ butter the 
size of an egg, and one tablespoonful of summer savory. 
Fasten together with a skewer, then dredge with salt and 
flour, and roast the same as beef. For a piece weighing 
ten pounds allow one hour and~ a half, and ten minutes 
for every pound over or under that. Skim aU the fat 
from the gravy ; for half a pint allow one tablespoonful 
of flour to thicken with ; season with pepper and salt. 
Put one tablespoonful of currant jelly into the gravy 
tureen, and strain the gravy npon it. Serve with mashed 
potatoes, boiled onions, boiled rice or macaroni, mashed 
turnip, currant jelly. 

When the tin kitchen is used it will require half an 
hour longer to roast. The shoulder and saddle are 
cooked in the same way. Always make a dressing for 
mutton ; it spends much better, and the trouble is not 
much. Omit the egg if you please. When you do not 
stuff it, cook it in twenty minutes less time. 



Digitized by tjOOQ IC 



38 THB APPLBDOBB COOK BOOK. 

Mo€M Lamb. 

Take a leg of lamb weighing six pounds, wash and 
dredge with salt and flour. Cook one hour if in an oven, 
one and a quarter if in a tin kitchen. Baste often. Make 
the gravy the same as for mutton, omitting the jelly. 
Serve with mashed potatoes, green peas, fried parsnips, 
or green corn, string beans, summer squash, niint sauce. 
Never omit the gravy because you have mint sauce. All 
other parts of the lamb can be roasted in the same way. . 

Roast Veal. 

The loin, breast, and fillet are the best parts for roast- 
ing ; the neck also is good to roast. Wash the veal, and 
rub into it a good handful of salt. Make a dressing in 
the following manner, and stuff it: Soak about two 
quarts of stale bread in cold water, chop fine half a 
pound of clear fat pork. Mix this with the bread and 
one teaspoonflil of pepper, one of salt, one tablespoonful 
of sweet marjoram, one of sage, one egg or two rolled 
crackers. Take out all the bones possible, and cut slits 
to make cavities for the dressing ; then stuff and skewer 
securely ; dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Have thin 
slices of salt pork, which lay on the top of the veal. Cook 
a piece weighing twelve pounds five hours, and baste very 
often. I should always roast veal in the oven. Make 
the gravy as for roast beef, but do not strain. If pos- 
sible, always cook a large piece of veal, because so 
many nice dishes can be made from cold roast veal. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MEATS. 39 

Serve mashed potatoes, splnage, asparagus, fried parsnips, 
horseradish. 

Moast Park* 

Wash and dredge a sparerib with salt, pepper, sage, 
and flour; and roast the same as beef. Cook a sparerib 
weighing ten pounds three hours, if cooked in a tin 
kitchen ; if in the oven, two hours and a half. Have the 
oven moderately hot The chine to be cooked in the 
same way, allowing one hour longer for a piece weigh- 
ing the same as a sparerib. Make the gravy as directed 
for roast beef. Serve potatoes, squash, fried or boiled 
onions, boiled rice, mashed turnips, apple-sauce. 

BroUed Beefsteak* 

Cut the steak about three quarters of an inch thick. 
Have a clear fire and lay the steak on the gridiron, and 
dredge lightly with flour. If you desire the steak rare, 
cook ten minutes ; if well done, fifteen. Dish and sea- 
son with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve immediately. 
Never set steak into the oven to keep warm or to melt the 
butter. The dish must be hot, the butter stand in a 
warm room long enough to soften, but do not melt. If 
for dinner, serve potatoes, either baked or boiled, and any 
other vegetables which you choose. Many persons pound 
tough steak before cocking, but I would not recommend 
lt> as by this means it loses much of its juiciness. 

There are some families in the country who have no 
means of broiling. The liext best thing such persons can 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



40 THB APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

do is to heat the frying-pan very hot, and grease with 
just enough butter to prevent the steak from sticking; 
then lay the steak in, and cook, and serve as before di- 
rected. 

JB^ried Beefsteak* 

For two pounds of steak fry brown four slices of salt 
pork, then take up the pork and fry the steak in the fat ; 
salt and pepper it. When you dish, add a little butter. 
To the fat remaining in the frying-pan, after the steak 
has been cooked, add one tablespoonful of dry flour (be 
sure to have the fat boiling), and stir until it is brown and 
there are no lumps, then pour in about half a cup of boil- 
ing water. Season well with pepper and salt. Serve in 
a gravy tureen. This is a more economical, but not so 
healthy a method as broiling. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. 

Fry brown four slices of salt pork ; when brown take 
out the pork, and put in six onions sliced thin. Fry 
about ten minutes, stirring all the while.; then take out all 
except a thin layer, and upon this lay a slice of steak, 
then a layer of onions, then steak, and cover thick with 
onions. Dredge each layer with pepper, salt, and flour. 
Pour over this one cupful of boiling water, and cover 
tight Simmer half an hour. When you dish, place 
the steak in the centre of the dish, and heap the onions 
around it. Serve the same vegetables as for broiled 
steak. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MEATS. 41 

Italianed Beef., 

Broil the steak as before directed ; place in the dish 
and cover with onioris prepared in the following manner : 
Slice very thin four good-sized onio-ns, and fry in pork fat 
thirty minutes, then add half a cup of boiling water, cover 
tight, and gimmer thirty minutes longer. While frying, 
season with pepper, salt, and a little butter. Vegetables 
the same as for broiled steak. 

Stewed Beef. 

Take a piece of beef that is rather tough, or pieces of 
tough beefsteak ; rub into it a handful of salt, some pep- 
per and flour ; lay in a kettle that you can cover tight, and 
that has a flat bottom. Cut up an onion, a potato, a small 
turnip, a carrot, and a parsnip ; lay these on top of the 
meat, and then sprinkle in half a teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, half of mace, one fourth of clove, and add cold wa- 
ter enough to cover it. Let it come to a boil,'skim off* all 
the scum, then cover tight, and simmer five hours. Afl:er 
it has been boiling four hours, mix half a cup of flour 
with cold water, and add to it. You can then taste it, 
and add more seasoning if necessary. The spice may be 
omitted if you choose. Serve the meat in a little of the 
gravy,, and send the remainder of the gravy to the table in 
the gravy-tureen. Serve plain boiled potatoes, boiled rice, 
and pickled beets. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



43 THB APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Fricassee of Beef* 

Put one pint of water into a frying-pan, and when it 
comes to a boil, thicken with one heaping spoonful of flour ; 
^ason with salt, pepper, and a little butter. Cut cold 
roast beef into slices, and put into this gravy, and let them 
boil five minutes. If there be any cold beef gravy, add 
it to the other, in which case you will not need quite so 
much butter. Serve boiled potatoes, tomatoes, boiled 
rice or macaroni, and squash. 

Mutton Chops. 

Cut the chops from the loin or the neck ; broil as you 

do beefsteak, and serve in hot dishes. Serve mashed 

. potatoes, stewed tomatoes, boiled onions, and boiled rice. 

Mutton Fie with Tomatoes* 

Pare and slice six tomatoes; put a layer into a deep 
pudding dish, then put in a layer of slices of cold mutton, 
and dredge in flour, salt, pepper. Have the last layer to- 
matoes, over which sprinkle two rolled crackers. Bake 
one hour. Serve boiled potatoes, boiled rice, green corn, 
shelled beans. 

Mutton Fiet Flain. 

Take the cold mutton that has remained from a former 
dinner, cut into thin slices, put into a pudding dish, and sea* 
son with pepper and salt. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour 



Digitized by Google 



MEATS. 43 

with cold water, then pour on to this one pint of boiling 
water, and season with pepper and salt, then pour this 
over the meat. Make a paste by rule fot plain piecrust, 
and cover it. Bake one hour. Vegetables the saitie as 
for pie, with tomatoes, with the addition of stewed to* 
matoes. 

Mutton Fricassee. 

Mutton fricassee is made the same as beef. Heap the 
meat in the centre of the dish, and garnish the sides with 
boiled rice. Send to the table very hot. Serve mashed po- 
tatoes, mashed turnips, baked tomatoes, and shelled beans. 



Haricot of Mutton* 

Take cold mutton (either boiled or roasted), cut into 
slices, and lay in a deep sauce-pan, and then put in one 
fourth of an onion, the same of turnip, and two potatoes, 
and one carrot, all cut into small pieces. Dredge with 
flour, salt, arid pepper. Cover with cold water, and boil 
slowly one hour ; then add two spoonfuls of flour mixed 
with cold water, and boil one hour longer. Have a dish 
ready with an edging of mashed potatoes (brown them 
or not, as you please), and into the centre of the dish turn 
the haricot. Serve mashed potatoes, boiled rice, mashed 
tuinips, and carrots. 

Minced Mutton. 

Take all the fat from cold mutton, and then put it into 
the chopping-tray ; dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour, 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



44 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

and then chop (do not chop it very fine) ; then put into 
a sauce-pan, and to two pounds of meat allow one cup 
of. boiling water and a spoonful c£ butter. Let it boil 
gently fifteen minutes, and dish on toast. This is a nice 
dish for breakfast or dinner. 



Lamb Chops. 

Broil fifteen minutes over clear coals. Season with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt. 

Broiled Veal. 

Cut veal into thin slices, and broil twenty minutes. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt. This is the most 
unsavory method of cooking veal, and I would not recom- 
mend it 

Fricassee of Veal. 

Fry eight slices of salt pork brown. Take out the pork 
and put in tAin slices of veal which have been cut from 
the leg. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry brown. 
When all the veal is fried, mix with the boiling fat two ta- 
blespoonfuls of dry flour ; stir until there are no lumps, and 
the flour is brown ; then add two cups of boiling water, 
and season with salt and pepper. Lay the veal in this 
gravy, and simmer fifteen minutes. Dish, and pour the 
gravy over the meat. If for dinner, garnish with boiled 
rice, and serve plain boiled potatoes, spinage, and horse* 
radish. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MEATS. . 45 

Veal CuUets* 

Fry brown eight ^lices of salt pofk. Take them up, 
and add to the fat two large spoonfuls of lard or drippings. 
Pave ready thin slices of veal (they are best cut from the 
leg), dip them in an egg which has been well beaten, then 
into cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Season them, 
before dipping in the egg and cracker, with pepper and 
salt; Serve with the salt' pork. If for dinner, serve mashed 
potatoes, boiled or stewed parsnips, and horseradish. 

Veal on Toast. 

Chop the veal as for mutton. Mince and season -in the 
same manner. Use a little more water, and boil fifteen 
minutes ; dish on toast, and garnish with thin slices of lem- 
on. This is a nice dish for either dinner or breakfast. 



Veal Croquettes. 

Chop cold veal fine (boiled is the nicest), season with 
pepper and salt, and to a quart of veal, after it is chopped, 
add half a cup of warm water (when chopping the veal, 
dredge in flour as for veal on toast), form this into egg 
shapes about the size of an egg^ and dip into a well-beaten 
eggy then roll in cracker crumbs, and fry, as you would 
doughnuts, in hot lard. 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Fork Steak. 

Cut pork steak quite thin, and sprinkle with salt, pep« 
per, and a little powdered sage. Put a spoonful of drip* 
pings or lard in the pan, and lay the pork in it ; fry slowly 
fifteen minutes. Always be sure that the meat is cooked 
until white at the centre ; if it has a pink appearance, it 
is not done. If for dinner, serve, boiled potatoes, squash, 
boiled onions, and apple-sauce. 

Fried Salt Fork. 

Cut salt pork into slices a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
off the rind, and then pour over them boiling water, in 
which let them $tand ten minutes ; then turn off the wa« 
ter, and fry until they are brown on both sides. . 

Broiled Salt Pork. 

Prepare as for fried, and broil ten minutes over clear 
coals. 

S€at Fork Fried in Batter. 

Fry the pork as before directed ; dip in batter, and fry 
in the pork fat, to which should be added two spoonfuls 
of drippings or lard. Make the batter in the following 
manner : Mix gradually with one cup of flour one cifp 
of milk, and then add one well-beaten egg and a little 
salt. This makes a pleasant change iii the country, where 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MSATS. 47 



it is so difficult to get fresh meat Serve potatoes and any 
other vegetable that you please. 



JE^ried 8au8($ges» 

Cut the sausages apart and wash them ; then lay them 
in the pan and pour boiling water over thera ; let them 
boil two minutes, then turn off the water and prick the 
sausages with a fprk, or they will burst open when they 
begin to fry. Put a little drippings in the pan with them, 
and fry twenty minutes. Turn them often that they may 
be brown on all sides. Cut stale bread into fanciful 
shapes, fry in the sausage fat, and garnish the dish with 
it. Brown bread is delicious fried in tliis way. Serve 
plain boiled potatoes, squash, mashed turnips, and apple- 
sauce. 

BroUed Sausages* 

Scald as for fried, and broil as you would any other 
kind of meat. Sausages that are kept a long time be- 
come dry and hard; they are very much improved by 
covering them with boiling water in which half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratusi has been dissolved, and boiling twen* 
ty minutes before frying them. 



Bigs^ Feet Soused, 

Scrape and wash the pigs' feet. Clean them, cover them 
with salt and water, and let .them stand two days ; then 
turn this water off, and cover again with frefeh salt and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4?^ THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

water ; let them stand two days longer, then boil about 
two hours. When cold, split them, and pour over them 
boiling vinegar, in which there have been thrown a few 
.whole cloves, a piece of stick-cinnamon, and a handful 
of salt. They will be ready for use iji twenty-four hours. 



Fried Figs^ Feet. 

Put into the frying-pan four spoonfuls of drippings 
or lard, and when this boils, lay in the feet, first having 
dredged them with flour, and fry brown. Serve on hot 
dishes. They can be fried before or after being soused. 
Never season them with butter. 



Figs^ Feet Fried in Batter. 

Take the feet from the vinegar and drain them, then 
dip them in a batter made as for pork, and fry in either 
drippings or lard. 

^gs^ Head Cheese. 

Boil a pig's head until the bones will drop out. When 
cold, chop fine and season highly with pepper, salt, and 
sage ; then put it into a kettle, and to every quart of meat 
add one half a pint of the -liquor in which it was boiled. 
Simmer this slowly for half an hour, and turn it into deei 
earthen dishes, and on top place, a plate with a weigh 
upon it. Set in a cool place, and when cold cut in slices. 
If there is any danger of its not keeping, scald it over. 
Many persons put spice in, but it is more natural without 



Digitized by LjOOQ iC 



MEATS. '49 

Fried Sam* 

Cut the ham in very Mn slices, and cut off the rind. 
Have half a spoonful of boiling drippings in the frying- 
pan, lay the ham in this, and fry quickly eight mimites ; 
it will then be brown and crisp. Where the ham is for 
dinner, have the slices larger and thicker, and if you do 
not have eggs with it, fry bread, as directed for sausages. 

Broiled Ham. 

Cut the ham in thin slices j cut off the rind, and broil 
over clear coals ten minutes. Butter or not, as you please. 
When the ham is very salt or hard, slice, and let stand in 
boiling water ten minutes before frying or broiling. 

Ham and Eggs* 

Fry the ham as before directed, and when the ham is all 
fried, turn the fat into a basin, and scrape the salt from the? 
frying-pan ; turn back the fat, and add to it half a cup of 
lard. When tjiis comes to a boil, break in your eggs, 
leaving room to turn them, if you prefer them turned ; 
they look much nicer, however, when they are not turned. 
If they are not turned, dip up the boiling fat while they 
are cooking and pour over them ; they will cook rare in 
three minutes, well done in four. Lay them on the slices 
* of ham, and serve. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



50 ' THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

F^ried JAver. 

Cut either beef or pork liver into slices about half au 
inch thick, and pour- boiling water over them, in which let 
them stand twenty minutes; then drain, and dredge with 
flour, salt, and pepper. Fry six slices of pork brown ; 
take them up, and in the fat fry the liver fifteen minutes. 
Serve the pork with it. 

Broiled Liver* 

Prepare as for frying, and broil fifteen minutes over 
clear coals. Season with butter^ salt, and pepper. When 
for dinner, serve boiled or baked potatoes, squash, and 
macaroni. 

BpUed Tripe. 

Wash a tripe clean (it must be washed in several wa- 
ters), and boil ten hours. Turn it often, as it is apt to 
^ick to the bottom. After it has boiled seven hours, throw 
a cupful of salt into the boiler with it When eaten plain 
boiled, cut up in squares, and serve with seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and butter. 

Broiled Tripe* 

Cut the tripe, after it has become cold, into handsome 
squares ; grease the gridiron, and broil ten minutes. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and butter. Serve on very hot 
dishes. If you buy tripe, g^t the honeycomb, as that is 
the nicest part of it 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MEATS. 51 

Fried Tripe. 

Cut info handsome squares, and dredge with salt, pep- 
per, and flour, and fry a light brown, in either drippings 
or lard. 

Soused Tripe. 

Cut the tripe into squares, and lay them in an earthen 
pot, and pour over them boiling vinegar enough to cover, 
in which a blade of mace, a dozen whole cloves, and^a 
stick of cinnamon have been boiled. It will be ready for 
use in twelve hours, and will keep several weeks. Soused 
tripe may be either broiled, or fried plain, or in batter. 



Tripe Fried in Batter. 

Drain the tripe, and make a batter as for pigs' feet ; dip 
the tripe in this, and fry in hot drippings or lard. Tripe 
is nice cooked in this manner, either before or after it has 
been soused. 

Calf^s Head and Fluck. 

Take out the' brains, and lay them in a dish of cold 
water. Scrape the head and wash, then lay in a tub of 
cold water two hours ; then put into a pot with two gal- 
lons of cold water. Ti^ the brains in a cloth, and boil 
with the head. When it comes to a TdoII, skim carefully •* 
When it has boiled two hours, put in the heart, liver, and 
feet, and boil two hours longer. When you dish, take the 
bones from the liead, and place it in the centre of the dish. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



52 THB APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Cut some slices from the heart and liver, and place around, 
the head. Split the feet, and lay on the edge of the dish. 
Serve with brain sauce. To make the brain sauce, braid 
together the brains, half a teacup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, two of salt, one of parsley, one of summer 
savory. Pour on this one pint and a half of boiling water, 
jand let it boil twenty minutes, then add one cup of butter 
and the juice of two lemons, and boil five minutes longer. 
You may omit the herbs if you choose. A piec6 of salt 
pork boiled with the -head and pluck is an improvement, 
but it is not necessary. The tongue is nice cut in thin 
slices and served cold. The heart, liver, and head make 
a nice hash. Save the liquor to make SQup, which may 
be made plain or mock turtle. 

Hash made from Calf^s Head and JPluck*^ 

Chop together parts of the head, liver, and heart, in the 
proportion of one third each. Season with pepper, salt, 
a little fresh lemon or a little vinegar. Warm in just 
enough of the liquor in which it was boiled, to moisten it. 
Just before dishing, stir in a little, butter. Serve on toast. 

Meat Hash* 



Chop fine any kind of cold meat (before chopping 
dredge with salt and pepper. This is. always the best 
manner of seasoning hash, as by this means. all parts will 
be seasoned alike). . If you have ct?/^ potatoes, ckop fine 
and mix with the meat, if they are hot^ mash. Allow one 



■ Digitized By 



5y Google 



^-J 



MEATS. 53 

third meal to two thirds potato. Put this mixture in the 
frying-pan with a little water to moisten it, and stir in a 
spoonful of butter, or, if you have nice beef drippings, 
use that instead of butter. Heat slowly, stirring often, and 
when warmed through, cover and let it stand on a mod- 
erately hot part of the stove or range twenty minutes. 
When ready to dish, fold as- you would an omelet, and 
dish. Save all the trimmings and pieces that are left of 
all kinds of meat, and have a hash once or twice a week^ 
It does not hurt a hash to have different kinds of meat 
in it. Avoid having a bash (or indeed any other part of 
your cooking) greasy. It is a great mistake to think that 
seasoning anything highly with butter improves it ; on the 
contrar}', it often ruins it by disguising the natural flavor, 
and giving you an unhealthy dish. I have nothing to say 
against a moderate use of butter in cooking, but I do strong- 
ly protest against the immoderate use of it in soups, gravies, 
hashes, stews, and on meats and fish of all kinds. I do not 
know of one kind of soup that is improved by the addi- 
tion of butter. 

Observe, when you let steak stand in the oven or on 
the hearth a few minutes after buttering, you will find 
that the butter has become oily, and you have neither the 
flavor of the meat or butter, but an impleasant oily flavor. 
I have given only -the simplest modes of cooking meats in 
this department,' and many may think, perhaps, that I 
have been too minute ; but I have not forgotten the time 
when these little hints as to how to put things together, as 
.well as the quantities and kinds to take, would have been 
of untold value to me ; and I know that every day there 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



54 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

are young housekeepers, and young girls who have to work 
in young housekeepers' Tdtchens, who need just these little 
hints to make the simplest dishes what they should he. 
For soups, poultry, and richer methods of cooking .meats, 
look in the department for rich cooking. 



Digitized by LjOOQi^ .5] 

— -^ 



Bailed JPotatoea* 

If the potatoes are new, wash clean arid put into boiling 
water; boil thirty minutes, and serve immediately. As 
they grow older, scrape the skin off before boiling. For 
old potatoes, have a sharp knife with a thin blade, and 
pare the potatoes, - having the skin as thin as possible. 
They are very much better if they stand in cold water a 
few hours before boiling ; then put them in boiling water 
and boil thirty minutes. When they have boiled fifteen 
minutes, throw' in a handful of salt. When done, turn off 
the water and let them stand on the back part of the range 
three minutes, then shalce them up once and turn into the 
dish, and send to the table. 

Maahed PotcUoes. 

Prepare and boil as for plain, and then mash. To two 
dozen potatoes add one cup of boiling milk and one 
spoonful of butter. If they are not salt enough, add a lit- 
tle more. They should be dished as soon as mashed. 
Heap them in the dish in an oval form, smooth and in* 
dent with the knife. 

• 55 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



56 • THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Braumed Potatoes. 

Prepare and mash as for plain mashed potatoes ; then 
heap them in an oval form on a buttered tin sheet. Smooth 
with a. knife, and then dip the knife in niilk and smooth 
over again, wetting every part with the milk, and place in 
the oven to brown ; they will brown in twenty minutes in 
a hot oven. I would not recommend browning potatoes, 
as the moisture, being baked in, spoils the flavor and ren- 
ders them, clammy. They look handsome made into pear 
shapes and browned. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Be very particular to wash every part of the potato 
clean, as many persons eat the skin. Put them in a pan 
(have an old one for this purpose), and bake in a. moder- 
ate oven fifty minutes. There i? such a difference in ovens 
that each one must learn for herself what the time will be 
for each ; for some will bake in less time, and some will 
take much longer than the time designated. ' 

Fried Potatoes. 

Pare and slice thin raw potatoes, and let them stand in 
cold water several hours ; if in summer, put a piece of 
ice in the water. Cut the slices lengthwise of the potato 
Have ready a basit> with boiling drippings or lard^ drain 
the potatoes a minute in a cullender, and drop them into 
the boiling fat, and fry a light brown ; take them out with 



Digitized 



byGoocjIe 



VEGETABLES. 57 

a skimmer, and lay them in a dry cullender, which should 
be placed in a tin pan and set in an open ■ oven. There 
should be as much fat as for frj^ing doughnuts, and thire 
should not be any more potatoes put in at a time than will 
fry brown and not. stick together. Have the basin in 
which you fry quite deep, as there is danger ©f the fat 
boiling over when the potatoes are put in. When you take 
the potatoes up, dredge a little salt over them. When, 
potatoes are cooked in this manner, they will be light and 
crisp. If they do not get cooked enough at first, they are 
very much improved by dropping them itito the fat for 
one minute, after they have been standing in the oven a 
while. 

FHed Bailed rotatoes. 

Cut the potatoes into slices, and fry in either pork fat 
or nice drippings. Have just fat enough in the pan to 
prevent their sticking, and sprinkle with salt while cook- 
ing. When these are brown, take them up and put in a 
little more fat, and fry as before. 



Potatoes warmed with Pork. 

Cut about eight slices of pork into pieces about half an 
inch square, and fry a nice brown. Have ready one dozen 
cold potatoes out into slices, and turn them into the pan 
with the fried pork, and dredge in a little salt and pepper, 
then stir and cut them into small pieces wHh the. knife. 
When a light brown, serve* 



Digitized by Google 



58 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. ' 

Potatoes wanned in Gravy • 

%lice cold potatoes as for frying, and turn them into the 
frying-pan, and to a dozen potatoes add a pint of cold 
gravy. Season with pepper and salt, and stir, and cut 
with a knife, until they are hot and in smt^ll pieces. 



Fricassee of Potatoes* 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small squares,, and put them 
in a basin with milk, pepper, and salt, allowing half a pint 
of milk to a dozen potatoes. Set the basin into another 
of hot water, and when it comes to a boil, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and set on tlie stove, and let it boil up 
once, then serve. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes* 

' Wash and boil, with the skins on, forty-five minutes. 
They are much better baked than boiled, and I would 
cook them so generally. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes* 

Wash and wipe dry, and bake one hour. Do not cook 
squash when you have sweet potatoes. 

Boiled OnioUs* . 

When new and tender, they will boil in one hour ; btjt 
aftet the month of October, they will require two hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES. 59 

Put them into water before peeling them, and they will not 
afiect the .eyes. Peel off all the dark skin, and put them 
in hot water, and boil as directed. If you have milk plen- 
ty, half an hour before they are dene, turn a quart into 
the water in which they are boiling. This makes them 
white, and is said to prevent, in a measure, the disagreea- 
ble odor which always follows their being eaten. Boil 
them in a porcelain kettle. Dish them, whole, and season 
with a little pepper, salt, and butter. 

Fried Onions* 

Peel and slice thin ten good-sized onions, and put them 
in a frying-pan with two spoonfuls of drippings. Fry 
thirty minutes, turning often. 

Bailed Squash. 

Cut ^the squash in strips, and cut out the soft, stringy 
part ; pare, wash, and cover with boiling water ; boil 
twenty-five minutes, then turn into a cullender for a few 
minutes, and when all. the water is drained off, put it back 
in the basin with a little salt, pepper, and butter, and 
mash. Dish the same as mashed potatoes. 

Baked Squash* 

Cut the squash in two, take out all the spft, stringy part ; 
il you need the whole squash for dinner, lay the halves 
together, and put in a baking-pan (the old one you use for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6o THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

baking potatoes in), and bake forty-five minutes. When 
done, scrape the squash from the shell, and season, and 
seiVe as boiled squash. When you cook but half a 
squash, lay it with the inside downward. This is a nice 
way to cook watery squash. Squash is also good steamed. 
It will take forty-five minutes to steam. 

Beets* 

Wash clean, but do not scrape ; if you do they will look 
white when cooked. When young they will cook in two 
hours ; but old ones will require four or five hours. When 
done, plunge them into cold water, and the skin will peel 
off easily. Cut in thin slices, and lay in a fiat dish. 

JPicMed Beets. 

Cut the beets that are lefi: from dinner into thin slices, 
and lay them in an earthen vessel, and cover with cold vin- 
egar and a few whole cloves. Keep in a cold place. 

Shelled Beans* 

Wash in several waters, and put them in a basin with 
boiling water. Boil one hour. Do not drain them'veiy 
dry. Season with butter and salt. 

. Baked Beans., 

Examine and wash one quart of dry beans (tlie pea 
bean is the best), and put them in a pan with six quaiis 



Digitized by V»OOQ IC 



VBGETABI^S. 6l 

of cold water ; let them soak in this over night. In the 
morning wash them in another water, and place them on 
the fire with six quarts of cold water and a pound of 
mixed salt pork. If they are the present year's beans, 
they will cook enough in half an hour ; if older, one hour. 
Drain them and put half in the bean-pot ; then gash the 
pork, and put in the remainder of the beans, one table- 
spoonful of molasses, and one of salt, and cover with boil- 
ing water. Bake ten hours. Watch them carefully, and 
do not let them cook dry. 

String Beans. 

String and cut into pieces about an inch long; then 
wash and put into boiling water, and boil one hour. Sea- 
son with salt and^ butter. 

Stewed Beans* 

Wash and soak over night one quart of beans. (Scar- 
let runners are the best.) In the morning set them on 
the fire, with six quarts of cold water and one and a half 
pounds of mixed salt pork. They will cook in four hours, 
but are better cooked five. Stir them often to prevent 
burning. Reason with pepper before dishing, and if the 
pork does not season it enough, add a little salt. 

• ■■ ": 

^ . . Cfreen Teas. 

Put them into boiling water, and when very young they 
will cook in twenty minutes ; but generally they require 
thirty. Season with salt and butter. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



62 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

Green Cam* 



Boil twenty-five minutes, if very young and tender. As 
grows older it requires a longer time. Send to the table 



it grows 
In a napkin. 



Bailed Tv/mips. 



Peel and cut into slices. If they are to be served in 
slices^ boil with a small piece of pork. Boil the pork 
three hours, and put in the turnips ; if they are the white 
turnip, they will cook in forty-five minutes ; but if the 
yellow, they will require two hours. Serve in slices with- 
out any seasoning except what they get by being boiled 
with the pork. For mashed, cook in the same way, omit- 
ting the pork, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. 
When the white turnip is very watery, it is improved by 
mashing a few mealy potatoes with it. Dish as directed 
for mashed potato. 

Bailed Parsnips. 

Scrape very clean, and cut lengthwise into slices. Put 
them into a stew-pan, and cover with Water, and boil one 
hour. Serve with a little drawn butter. 



Fried Parsnips. 

Prepare as before directed, and boil half an hour. Let 
them grow cold, and fry a light brown in pork fat. (N^- 
er use butter to fry.) They are very nice cooked whole 
with a piece of pork, as you cook turnips. The time 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



VEGETABLES. 6$ 

to eat parsnips is in 'April and May, and they should be 
dug fresh when used. Dig a large box full in the fall, 
and cover them with earth. Use these for soups ; they are 
one of the nicest vegetables that there are for flavoring 
soups. 

BMed Carrots. 

Prepare, boil, and serve the same as parsnips. 

Bailed Bice^ 

Wash and pick all the specks from a cup of rice. Let it 
stand in cold water two hours, and then put it in a deep 
kettle, with two quarts of water, and boil jfast thirty min- 
utes. When it has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a 
great spoonful of salt. When done, turn into a cullender, 
and set in the oven a few minutes. When ready to dish, 
shake lightly and iurn into the vegetable dish. Never 
use a spoon. If these directions are followed, you will 
have a handsome and healthy vegetable, and every ker- 
nel will be separate. The water in which the rice has 
been toiled makes a nice starch for colored clothes. 

The southern rice cooks much quicker and is nicer t«an 
the Indian rice. If possible, always purchase the former. 

« Another Mode. 

W^sh one cupful of rice and put into a tin basin or 
pail, with three cupfuls of cold water, and a teaspoonful 
of salt, cover and set in another basin, with hot water. 



■ Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



64 THS APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

place oil the fire, and boil thirty minutes. Rice is very 
healthy, and should be a common dish on the table. 



Stewed Tomatoes* 

Pour boiling water over half a peck of ripe tomatoes. 
Let them stand in it five minutes, and then peel off the 
skins ; cut them into slices, and put in a stew-pan with a 
little salt, pepper, and a spoonfiil of sugar.- Simmer 
two hours, Stirling often to prevent burning. Two min- 
utes before dishing stir in one tablespoonfiil of butter. 
Canned tomatoes are cooked in the same manner, but do 
not require more than half an hour to stew. 

Sliced Tomatoes* 

Pour boiling water over them, and then peel and slice 
thin ; lay them on small platters, and serve. Let each 
person season to his own taste. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Scald and peel as directed ; have ready an earthen dish, 
into which lay a layer of tomatoes (whole), then sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and cracker crumbs ; then another layer 
of tomatoes, and sprinkle again with salt and pepper. Cut 
a spoonful of butter into small pieces and lay on the to- 
matoes, and then cover with cracker crumbs. Bake thir- 
ty minutes. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



VEGETABLES. 65 

Asparagus. 

Cut off the white part, wash and tie in small bunches, 
and put . into a sauce-pan with boiling water enough to 
cover it, and a handful of salt When young it will boil 
in twenty minutes ; if not tender, boil thirty. Dish on 
toast, and season with a little butter. . 

Spinage. 

Pick carefully and see that there no weeds or grass in 
it ; then wash in several waters. Put on to boil in boiling 
water, and boil an hour and a half. When about half 
done, throw into the water a spoonful of salt. When 
done, drain and put in a dish with a little butter, and cut 
it several times with a knife. Dish and garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled ^^%* You can boil it with a piece of salt 
pork, and then you will not require the butter and eggs. 

Cabbage. 

Cut the stalk and all the loose leaves from the cabbage ; 
then cut the cabbage into four parts, and wash clean. Ex- 
amine it carefully, as there are worms in it sometfmes. 
Put it in a deep pan, and pour boiling' water over it, and 
let it stand in the shed (that it may not scent the house) 
half an hour. Boil with a small piece of salt pork two 
hours, or you can boil it with corned beef, as nriany persons 
do ; but it has not the white appearance that it has when 
boiled with pork. When cold, it is nicfe warmed with a 
little of the drippings of corned beef. 
* ■ 5 ■ 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



66 THE APPLEDORB; COOK BOOK. 

Cauliflower. 

Cut ofT the loose leaves and ther stock ; wash clean, and 
let it stand in cold water one hour ; then put on to boil in 
boiling water, and if very large, boil one hour and a half; 
but if small, one hour will answer. When nearly done, 
stir in a spoonful of salt and half a pint of milk. Serve 
whole in a deep dish, and spread over it a littie butter. 
The milk can be omitted, as its only use is to whiten the 
cauliflower. 

Dandelianam 

Pick over carefully, and wash in several waters ; cut off 
all the roots, then put into boiling water, and boil one 
hour ; then drain off this water, and again put them into 
boiling water, and boil two hours longer. Put a spoonfiil 
of salt into the second water. When done, turn into a cul- 
lender and drain ; then season with butter and more salt 
if necessary, and cut them with a knife. Serve in a deep 
vegetable dish. They may be boiled with a piece of salt 
pork, but in that case omit the butter. 

Beet Chreens. 

Scrape the roots and wash in several waters ; then let 
them stand in cold water a few hoursi Boil a small piece 
of salt pork three hours, then put the beet greens into the 
kettle with it, and boil one hour longer. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



VEGETABLES. 67 

M(icarfmi Baited. 

Break up and wash a pint bowl full of ipacaroni, and 
put in a shallow basin, and cover with cold water. Set 
this basin into another of warm water, and place on the 
fire ; afler fifteen minutes, add a pint of milk and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; let it cook ten minutes longer, then add 
a spoonful of butter, and cook five minutes more, and 
dish. Be careful not to break the macaroni in dishing. 
The boiled macaroni which remains from one dinner can 
be used for the next, by preparing it in the following man- 
ner : Butter a shallow dish, and turn the macaroni into it ; 
then grate over it old cheese, and brown. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC , 



Always purchase the best flour ; it is much cheaper 
than the low priced. Keep a large tin pan or wooden 
bowl full of sifted flour, and always keep the flour covered 
Have two quarts, one for dry, and the other for liquid- 
measuring. The old beer measure is the kind to get. If 
you buy milk, It will not do to, consider the milkman's 
quart for any rule in this book. You must always meas- 
ure with the beer measure. Good bread \i the most im" 
portant branch of cooking. Therefore I hope every 
housekeeper, who cannot already make good bread, will 
•give particular attention to this branch before attending to 
cake or pastry of any kind. It seems as if enough had 
been written and said, in regard to this subject, to awaken 
every young woman to the importance of it ; but it is not 
so. If a young lady learns to do any kind of cooking, it is 
cake and pastry, and if she learns to make bread, it is the 
last thing, instead of the first, to be learned. Now I cer- 
tainly think that no girl should pass her eighteenth year 
without a practical knowledge of bread-making, cooking 
vegetables and plain meats. I have no objections to all 
the nice fancy cooking, which any one may learn after- 
wards ; but have bread, vegietables, and meats ^r^/. When 
reading a rule for doing anything, it seems as if the process 

68 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BRBAD. 69 

were longer and harder than when the rule is very short. 
But I hope none will feel so because I have gone into all 
the details, for I feel that it is because of the neglect of the 
small things that so many fail in cooking, as in every* 
thing else. 

JSop Yeast. 

Pare arid boil one dozen mealy potatoes (they vwill boil 
in thirty miuutes) ; as soon as you put the potatoes on to 
boil, put a handful of hops into another kettle with three 
quarts of cold water, cover and boil (watch it that it may 
not boil over). When the potatoes are boiled, drain and 
mash fine ; then strain the hops through a fine sieve on 
the potatoes (be sure that the hops are boiling when they 
are strained on the potatoes), and stir well ; then add one 
half a cup of sugar, one fourth of salt, and one pint of 
flour; mix this well and strain through a cullender; let 
it stand until it is milk-warm, then stir in one cup of go'od 
yeast, and set it to rise where it will be warm. It will rise 
in five hours if the yea«t is good. You can tell when it 
is risen by the white foam, which will rise to the top. 
When risen,, put it in a stone jug, and stop tight. It is a 
good plan to tie th6 cork down, as it sometimes flies out. 
Set in the ice chest or on the cellar bottom. Make one 
third this quantity in summer if your family be sniall. 

« JELop Yea^t, No. 2. 

In the spring and the first of the summer, when potatoes 
are poor, it is better to make yeast without them. Boil one 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



76 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

fourth of a cup of hops in one quart of water, and strain 
it upon half a pint of flour ; stir this well, and add two 
spoonfuls of sugar and one of salt, then strain through 
a cullender, and let it become milk-warm, when add one 
cup of good yeast. You need just as much yeast for one 
third the quantity made without the potatoes, as you would 
for the whole made with potatoes. Rise and bottle the 
same fis the preceding, * 

• "PotcUo Teast. 

Pare and boil six good-sized potatoes; when done, 
mash, and pour on them three pints of boiling w^ter ; 
run this through the cullender, and then stir in one spoon- 
ful of sugar and one of salt When milk-warm, stir in 
half a cup of yeast. In summer-time this will rise in 
►three or four hours. It will not keep as long as hop 
yeast. 

Teast Bread. 

Take, four good-sized potatoes, peel, boil, and mash, 
and pour on to them one quart of boiling water ; strain 
the whole through a sieve ; let this get blood- warm, and 
then stir into it one cup of yeast, one spoonful of white 
sugar, one spoonful of salt, and three qfuarts and a pint of 
flour. Beat well with a spoon and set in a warm place 
to rise. (In the summer it will rise in four hours, in win- 
ter it will take five.) When well risen, take a*pint of 
flour and put part of it on the kneading-board ; then turn 
the dough upon the board, and put one spoonful of lard 



Digitized by GOOglC 



• BREAD. 71 

on it ; then knead twenty minutes, using the pint of flour ; 
now put the dough in the pan again, and let it rise one 
hour, and then form into loaves. (Do not have over a 
pint bowl full of dough in a loaf.) Let the loaves rise 
forty minutes, and bake forty-five minute^ Bread made 
in this way cannot be excelled ; the only objection to it is 
that you have to bake in the afternoon ; but when good 
bread is wanted, a little extra work should not prevent its 
being made. 

Teast Bread, No, 2* 

Make a hole in the middle of four quarts of flour', into 
which turn one spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and one cup 
of yeast ; then mix with one pint of cold milk, which has 
been warmed by the addition of one pint of boiling water, 
and add one spoonful of lard ; knead well, and let it rise 
over night. In winter, let it begin to rise near the fire the 
first of the evening, unless your kitchen is very warm. 
But in summer do not mix until nine, unless you intend 
baking before breakfast. In the morning knead again, 
and make into loaves ; let them rise one hour, and bake 
fifty minutes. If you have not plenty of milk, mix with 
water, and use one spoonful more of lard. There is a 
great deal in knowing how to knead ; strength is not a//, 
as many suppose. When you put the bread on the board, 
mix it lightly, and when you begin to knead it, do not 
press daivn^ but let all your motions be as elastic as pos- 
sible ; knead with the palm of the hand until the dough is 
a flat cake, then fold^ and keep doing this until the dough 
is smooth and elastic ; twenty minutes is the time I have 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



72 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

given, but many persons can knead the bread in less time, 
while others will require longer. But practice will teach 
each one. . . 

MUh Yeast Bread. 

• • 

Put into a two-quarts-and-a-pint pail one pint of new 
milk, and one pint of boiling water ; mix with this one 
tablespoonful of white sugar, one of salt, and three pints 
of flour. Beat this well together, and cover tight (have 
a spoon that is so short that you can put the cover on 
the pail while it is in it, and yet it must be long enough 
to come nearly to the top). Set this pail into another 
pail, or kettle, with water enough to come nearly to the 
top of it. To get this water the right temperature, take 
one. half cold and one half boiling water ; set it where it 
will keep about the same temperature until risen ; watch 
carefully, and beat the batter as often as once in every half 
hour until the last hour, when it must not be disturbed. 
This will rise in about five hours; when* it is risen the 
pail will be full. Do not let it stand one minute after that, 
as it spoils very quickly. ^ Have in a pan two quarts of 
flour, make a hoje in the middle of it. Dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, and when the 
batter is risen turn it into the middle of the flour, and turn 
the saleratus in with it ; then knead well, and make into 
loaves. Set them where they will be warm, and let them 
rise forty-five minutes. Bake in a quick oven. It will 
take nearly a pint of flour to knead the dough on the 
board. Be as particular to measure your flour as you are 
to measure the milk aild water. This bread is not so 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BRBAD. 73 

healthful as hop yeast bread, and is more difficult to 
make; but it makes the nicest dry toast and delicious 
sandwiches. 

Oraham Bread* 

Take two quarts of Graham {never sift it) and one of 
flour, half a cup of yeast, one scant spoonful of salt, half a 
cup of brown sugar, and warm water enough to make a 
stiff batter, and let it rise. If you rise it over night, be sure 
to set in a cool place, as it sours much quicker than fine 
flour. It will rise in a warm place in four hours. When 
risen, mix with it a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in 
warm water, and flour enough to shape it into loaves ; put 
it in the pans, and let it rise thirty-five minutes, and bake 
slowly an hour and a quarter. Make the loaves very 
small. Use molasses instead of sugar if the bread is eaten 
for constipation. 

Third Bread. 

Take one quart of flour, one of Indian meal, one of rye, 
one cup of yeast, one spoonful of salt, half a cup of brown 
sugar, and nearly a quart of warm water ; mix well to- 
gether, and let it rise over night. In the morning use flour 
enough to shape it into loaves, and let it rise in the 
baking-pans forty-five minutes. Bake one hour and a 
quarter. 

Brown Bread* 

Take one heaping pint bowlful of rye meal, two of 
Indian, one cup of yeast, one of molasses, one spoonful 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



74 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

of salt, one teaspoonful saleratus. Mix with warm water, 
as thick as hasfy-pudding. Lard the dish in which it is 
to be baked, and then turn in the mixture ; let it rise two 
hours, and bake in a slow oven four hours. 

Brawn Bread, No. 2. 

Very nice. Three cups of Indian meal, three of rye, 
one half of molasses, one spoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus ; wet with milk enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Steam five or six hours. This will make enough to 
fill a two quart pan. 

Brawn Bretid, Nom 3* 

Nice. One pint of sour milk, half a cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful saleratus, one tablespoonful of salt, half 
Indian and half rye meal enough to make a stiff batter ; 
lard the baking-tin well, and turn in the mixture. Steam 
five hours. I will say here, that you cannot steam brown 
bread too much ; but do not steam it less than five hours. 

Baised BUcuU. 

If the biscuit are for breakfast, take part of the dough 
of yeast bread No. 2, and mould with the hands very 
small cakes, place them in a shallow pan, and rise one 
hour. Bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. Never cut 
raised biscuit with a cutter; they are enough nicer for 
being moulded by the hand to pay for the extra labor. 
When the biscuit are for tea, take part of the dough of 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BREAD. 75 

No. I, and proceed as directed for breakfast biscuit 
When the supper hour is six, do not set your bread until 
ten, if in summer, but if in winter, half past eight. Begin 
to make the biscuit two hours before supper-time ; by this 
means you will have plenty of time to rise them. Shape 
the loaves at the same time, and they can be baked while 
you are getting supper. 



Maised Biscuit, ITo. 2. 

Take three quarts of flour and one cup of butter, one of 
yeast, one spoonful of salt, one of sugar. Melt the butter 
and mix with a scant quart of warm milk ; wet the flour 
with this, and set in a warm place to rise. When it cracks 
open it is risen enough. When it is risen, work into it 
two teaspoonfuls of saleratus which have been dissolved 
in half a cup of hot water. You must work it very 
thoroughly, or the saleratus will not be mixed with every 
part. Now put the dough into large tin pans or pails (do 
not have the vessels more than half full, as the dough will 
rise again), and set them on the ice. This dough will not 
be fit to use under twelve hours, as it must be chilled 
through. When you wish to make biscuit, take part of 
this dough and lay oii the paste-board, and roll about an 
inch thick ; cut in small cakes, and bake fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. Handle the dough as little as possible, 
and keep very cold until you put it in the oven. This is 
a very nice way to make biscuit where the family have hot 
bread twice a day, as it will keep five days ; but there must 
be a good ice-chest, and plenty of ice to have it work well 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



76 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

White Mountain Molls. 

For breakfast. Sixteen cups of flour, one half a cup of 
white sugar, one cup of butter, one of yeast, the whites of 
four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and four cups of boiled 
milk. Melt the butter, have the milk blood-warm, and 
mix the bread ; set in a warm place, and rise over night ; 
in the morning shape into long rolls, rise one hour, and 
bake half an hour. 

Parker House JRoUs* 

Take two quarts of flour, and rub Into it a tablespoonful 
of lard and a little salt ; put in a deep bread-pan, and 
make a hole in the flour, into which pour one pint of cold 
boiled milk and half a cup of yeast. Cover the pan, and 
let it stand all night ; in the morning stir it up and knead 
well, and set in a warm place to rise ; let it rise to a light 
sponge (it will rise in an hour and a half), then roll it out 
on the board about half an inch thick ; cut with an oval 
cutter, and fold about two thirds of it ; lay them on tin 
sheets ; let them rise an hour, and then bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. If you have breakfast at seven, you 
must be up at four to have them ready. 

Coffee BoUs. 

Take twelve cups of flour, one of white sugar, one half 
of butter or lard, one of yeast, one grated nutmeg, and 
three eggs. Mix with three large cups of warm milk, 
and let it rise over night ; if well risen in the morning, 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BREAD. 77 

knead and set in a cool place until three o'clock in the 
afternoon, then shape into long rolls, as you do White 
Mountain rolls, and let them rise one hour and a half. 
Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. When done, glaze 
them with a little milk in which a little brown sugar has 
been dissolved, and set them back in the oven for two 
minutes. These are for tea. They are nice, sliced thin, 
when cold. 

Bunns* 

Bunns are made the same as coffee rolls, with the addi* 
tion of two cups of English currants. They are shaped 
like biscuit, only a little smaller. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Take one quart of flour, before it is sifted, and put into 
the sieve, and with it one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of 
cream of tartar, one of salt, and one tablespoonful of white 
sugar. Mix all these thoroughly with the flour ; then run 
through the sieve, and then rub in one spoonful of lard or 
butter. Wet with a little over half a pint of milk. Roll 
on the board about an inch tliick ; cut with a biscuit cut« 
ter, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. If you 
have hot milk, use a little more butter, and wet with wa- 
ter. Handle as little and make as rapidly as possible. 

Cremn of Tartar BolU. 

Take one pint of flour, before it is sifted, put it into the 
sieve with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



78 THE APPLEDORK COOK BOOK. 

saleratus, one half of salt, one of sugar, and mix them 
together, then run them through the sieve ; wet with half 
a pint of milk. Heat and grease the French roll pan, 
and put a large spoonful into every compartment; set 
into a hot oven, and bake ffteen minutes. This quantity 
will make just one roll pan full. 

Sour MUk Biscuit. 

Rub half a spoonful of butter or lard into one quart of 
flour, and wet it with one pint of sour milk, into which 
you have previously stirred one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
which had been dissolved in a little hot water. Use as 
much more flour as you find necessary to make the dough 
stiff enough to roll out. Roll on the board about an inch 
thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick 
oven. If you use lard for shortening, add one teaspoon- 
ful of salt 

BuUermUk Molls* 

Take two coffee cups of buttermilk, and stir into it one 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and 
stir into this about five cups of flour ; beat this up lightly, 
and bake in French roll pans, the same as cream of tartar 
rolls. These are very nice. This will make two roll 
pans full. 

Qraham Molls. 

Take two coffee cups of sour milk, and stir into it one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, one of salt, half a cup of sugar, 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BREAD. 79 

two eggs, one cup of flour, and Graham enough to make 
a stiff batter. Bake the same as cream of tartar rolls, al« 
lowing ten minutes longer. 

Graham B0U83 No. 2. 

Take one cup of ice water, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and Graham enough to make a thick batter ; beat this light- 
ly, and bake in French roll pans in a quick oven. This 
makes one pan full. 

Cam Bolls. 

Corn rolls are made the same as Graham, using Indian 
meal instead of Graham. 

Com Cake. 

Three teacups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one of butter ; wet this with 
boiling water, and then beat in one egg ; spread half an 
inch deep on buttered tin sheets, and bake brown in a 
quick oven. This is delicious. 

Com CaJce, No. 2. 

Three teacupfuls of Indian meal, one of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, and one of 
yeast. Mix this with cold water enough to make a thin 
batter , let it rise over night, and in the morning add one 
teaspoonful of saleratus and one tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in round tin plates in a quick oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



So THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Com Cake, No* 3* 

One pint of new milk, one pint of Indian meal, one pint 
of flour, half a cup of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus, two of cream of tartar, salt. Measure the meal 
and flour after they have been sifted, and put into the sieve 
with the saleratus, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt. Mix 
well together and sift. Break the eggs into the pan in 
which you intend mixing the com cake, and beat light ; 
then turn in the milk and stir in the meal.- Bake in tin 
plates in a quick oven. 

Cam Cake, No. 4L* 

One pint of Indian meal, one handful of flour, half a cup 
of rice (measured before it is boiled) boiled soft, one 
quart of new milk, and a spoonful of salt. Boil the rice 
as directed for a vegetable, and drain dry (it may be boiled 
the night previous if you choose), and turn it into the 
milk ; set the milk on in hot water, and let it boil, and 
when boiling'^ pour it on the meal and flour. Beat the eggs 
well and stir into the mixture. Turn it an inch deep into 
buttered pans, and bake thirfy-flve minutes. This can be 
made with or without the rice. 

JRye I>rop Cakes* 

Three well-beaten eggs, one pint of new milk, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and rye enough to make a stifl* batter ; half fill 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BRBAO. 8l 

earthen cups, put them in an old pan (the one you use 
for baking potatoes), set in the oven, and bake one hour. 



Flour Ihrop Cakes* 

Flour drop cakes are made the same as rye, only do not 
have the batter so thick. 



Fiaur Ihrop Cakes, No* 2* 

One pint of new milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, half a cup of butter, and four and a half of flour. 
Beat the eggs to a froth, melt the butter and turn upon the • 
eggs with the milk and sugar ; then stir in the flour, and 
bake in earthen cups one hour. 



Orahain JOrop Cakes. 

Graham drop cakes are made the same as rye, with the 
addition of half a cup of sugar. 



Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one cup of yeast, nine cups of flour, 
butter the size of a walnut, and four eggs. Make a bat- 
ter with the milk, butter, yeast, and flour ; beat the ^ggs 
and stir in ; set in a warm place, and let it rise four hours, 
and then bake in buttered muflin rings, or fry on the grid- 
dle in rings. 

6 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



83 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Mufflns, No. 2. 

One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, five cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, two 
eggs, and butter the size of an egg. Beat the butter and 
sugar together, and then add the eggs well beaten ; with 
this mix the milk, and then beat in the flour in which the 
saleratus and cream of tartar have been mixed. Bake in 
buttered muffin rings in a quick oven. 

QHddle Cakes. 

Sour Milk or Buttermilk Cakes. 

Two coffee cups of sour milk or buttermilk, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and 
flour enough to pour. Grease the griddle with a piece of 
fat salt pork, and fry the cakes a light brown. 

Bice Cakes. 

Make with sour milk, as directed above, and add two 
well-beaten eggs, one cup of boiled rice, and one teaspoon- 
ful of salt. They require a longer time to fry than the 
plain do, but are very nice. 

Indian Cakes. 

Make as the flrst, using half flour and half Indiaa meal, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. These require a longer time 
to fry than when made with all flour. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BREAD. 83 

Cam Dodgers* 

Take three teacups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, and pour on boiling wa- 
ter enough to wet it; then make into small flat cakes 
about an inch thick, and fry in boiling fat until brown. 
They will fry in fifteen or twenty minutes. To be eaten 
very hoU 

l^read Cakes. 

Take stale bread and soak it in milk ; when soft, run it 
through a cullender. To one quart of tliis add one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, two eggs, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a 
nutmeg. These also take some time to cook. The eggs 
may be omitted if you choose, but you must then use half 
a cup more of flour. 



Buckwheat Cakes. 

One pint of warm water, half a cup of yeast, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a cup of Indian meal, two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, and buckwheat enough to make a 
thin batter ; let this rise over night ; in the morning sift 
in one teaspoonful of saleratus, and fry. If you have 
them every morning, save a little of the batter to rise them 
with, instead of using fresh yeast every time. The Indian 
meal may be omitted if you prefer them without ; in that 
case use a little more buckwheat. They may be made 
with sour milk, as the flour are made, by substituting buck* 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



84 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

wheat for flour ; but they are not so good as when raised. 
Buckwheat is so fine that care must be taken to stir and 
beat well from the bottom, or there will be lumps of 
dry buckwheat there. 



Fried Mush. 

Into one quart of boiling water stir one tablespoonful 
of salt, and one cup of flour mixed with one quart of In- 
dian meal (it may take a little more than a quart of meal 
to make it stifl* enough) ; beat it well, or it will be lumpy. 
Boil gently two hours, and then turn into dishes which 
have been dipped in cold water, and set away to cool. 
Pans in which you bake loaves of bread are the best to 
cool it in, as it then makes handsome slices. In the morn- 
ing cut into slices an inch thick, and fry brown in pork 
fat. Serve slices of fried pork with it. You can cook 
enough at one time for several breakfasts. If you do not 
wish to fry the mush, do Aot use the flour, and do not 
make quite so stiff. 

Brown Bread Brewie. 

If you bake brown bread there will be a great deal of 
hard crust. Take this crust and put in a basin with a 
little salt, and cold water ^enough to cover it ; cover tight, 
and set on the fire to boil ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes, 
:ind serve in a deep dish. It must be dry and soft. This 
is very nice eaten with cold corned beef or cold tongue ; 
it can also be eaten with milk or sirup. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Tea Cake* 

Onb spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, one of milk, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, and 
one pint of flour. Beat the sugar and butter together, and 
then the two eggs ; next stir the milk with them, and then 
stir in the flour in which the saleratus and cream of tar- 
tar have been thoroughly mixed. Turn it, about an inch 
deep, into shallow pans, and bake in a quick oven. To 
be eaten waf m. 

Berry Cake. 

Make the same as tea cake, only measure the pint of 
flour before it is sifted, and stir in one pint of blueberries. 



Tlain Cup Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one of sugar, three of flour, one 
of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of 
cream of tartar, and lemon or nutmeg to taste. Beat the 
butter light, then add the sugar gradually, beating all the 
time until it is a cream, and then add the eggs, which 
have been beaten light, and the milk ; mix all these well 

85 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



86 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

together, and then stir in the flour, in which the saleratus 
and cream of tartar have been mixed. Flavor and bake 
either in* loaves or sheets ; w^hen done, the place on top 
where it has cracked open will look well done. If baked 
in loaves, it will take forty minutes ; in sheets, twenty. 
This quantify will make two small loaves. 



Bicher Cup Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of saleratus, 
four eggs,* and a nutmeg. Put together as directed for 
plain cup cake. This will make two large loaves. Bake 
in a moderate oven fifty minutes, or more. 



BaUro€Kl Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one half of milk, one and a half of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two e^s, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and one half of saleratus. 
Flavor with lemon, and liake in thin sheets. Put together 
as directed for plain cup cake. 



Cream Cake. 

Very nice. Beat to a froth one cup of sugar and three 
eggs, and on this pour one cup of sweet cream ; then 
stir in one and a half cups of flour in which one teaspo6n- 
ful of saleratus and two of cream of tartar aie thoroughly 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PLAIN^AKB. 87 

mixed. Flavor with lemon, and poyr into shallow pans. 
Bake, in a rather quick oveni thirty minutes* 



Feather Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one of milk, two scant cups of flour, 
one egg^ one tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of* 
saleratus, one of cream of tartar, and flavor to taste. Soften 
(but do not melt) the butter, and beat it with the sugar 
^nd egg ; then add the milk, and then the flodr mixed 
vs ith the saleratus and cream of tartar. Bake in shallow 
pans in a quick oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, one 4nd a half cups of sugar, two of flour, 
one half of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one half of saleratus. Beat the sugar and eggs together, 
and add the water when they are light, then the flour, in 
which mix the saleratus and cream &f tartar. Flavor with 
lemon, and bake in a quick oven. 

Sponge Cake, No* 2* 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and half of saleratus. Beat 
sugar and eggs together, and then beat in the flour in 
which the saleratus is mixed. Flavor with lemon, and 
bake in sheets in a quick oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

/ 

AUie^a Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
three of flour, one half of butter, one pound of raisins, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cinnamon, and one 
of cloves. Beat sugar and butter together, then add mo« 
lasses and spice, then the sour milk in which the saleratus 
is dissolved, and then the flour, and last the raisins. Bake 
in loavee in a moderate oven. If the raisins are not stoned, 
chop them. It is much better, however, to stone tliem. 

Saisin Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one of butter, one of milk, three 
of flour, two of chopped raisins, and one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Spice to your taste. Soften the butter and 
beat it and the molasses together; then add milk, and 
then the flour in which the saleratus is mixed, and lastly 
the raisins. Bake in loaves in a moderate oven. 

« 

Aj^le Cake* 

Wash clean two cups of sliced dried apple, and soak 
over night ; in the morning chop one half of them, and 
stew them all slo^vly in two cups of molasses, until they 
are dark. One cup of butter, two of sugar, two of 
chopped raisins, two thirds of sour milk, four eggs^ two 
teaspoonfuls of saleratus, five cups of flour, and all kinds 
of spice. Put together as directed for raisin cake, and 
stir in the apple and raisins last. Bake in loaves, in a 
moderate oven, from two hours and a half to three. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PI^IN CAKB. 89 



JBieh Molasses QingerJyread. 

Two cups of molasses, two of milk, one of melted but- 
ter, two and a half teaspoonfuls of saleratus, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, and one nutmeg, one cup of 
sugar, and eight cups of flour. Beat molasses, butter, 
sugar, and eggs, together ; then dissolve the saleratus in 
the milk, and add it with flour, ginger, and nutmeg ; beat 
up well, and pour about two inches deep into pans, and 
bake half an hour. This will keep well, but being nearly 
as expensive as cup cake, I would rather make it plainer 
and oflener. 



Soft Molasses Gingerbread, No* 2* 

One cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
of ginger, one tablespoonful of butter or lard, a pinch of 
salt, if you use lard. Stir this together, and then pour on 
oiie half a cup of boiling water, and flour enough to make 
a thin batter. Bake about one inch deep in a sheet. This 
is very nice if puins are taken to have the water boiling, 
and to beat it well when the flour is added. 



4opi Molasses CH^ngerbread, JVb. S* 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, half of saleratus, one egg^ 
and flour enough to make a (hick batter. Bake about ono 
'inch deep in a tin sheet 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



90 THB APPLEDORB OOQ^K BOOK. 

Hard Molasses C^ngerbread* 

One pint of molasses, half a cup of lard or buttef 
(half a tablespoonful of salt when you use lard), one ta- 
blespoonful of ginger, one of ^aleratus ; beat all this to- 
gether, and when well mixed add half a pint of cold 
water, and flour enough to roll. Roll this very thin^ and 
cut in strips about three inches wide and six long, with 
a jagging-iron, and bake in a quick oven until brown. 
When you take them from the oven, lay them on a sieve 
to cool, and when cold, put them in a tin box that can be 
covered tight; keep this in a dry closet, and they will 
keep nice and crispy for a month. 

Hard Sugar Qingerbreadm 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sour milk, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus, and flour enough to roll. Beat the sugar and but- 
ter to a cream, then beat in tlie eggs ; add the ginger and 
sour milk in which the saleratus is dissolved, and then the 
flour. Roll about half an inch thick ; cut, bake, and keep 
the same as directed for hard molasses gingerbread. 

Oinger Snaps. 

One cup of molasses, one of butter, one of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, and two eggs. Put the molasses 
»nd butter in a tin pan, and set on the fire ; when it boils 
up, take off, and add the sugar and ginger. When they 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



fJUAIN CAKE. 91 

are well mixed, add the eggs, which have been well 
beaten, and then flour enough to roll. Put a small piece 
at a time on the board, and roll as thin as the blade of a 
knife ; cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick oven until 
they are a dark brown. Cool, and keep in a tin box, the 
same as hard gingerbread. 

MoUissea Cookies* 

One cup of molasses, one of brown sugar, one of lard, 
one half of boiling water, one spoonful of ginger, one of sal- 
eratus, one of salt, and flour enough to roll. Beat sugar, 
lard, molasses, saleratus, and ginger together ; then pour 
on the boiling water, and mix in the flour. Roll about 
three quarters of an inch thick, and cut with a round cut- 
ter. Bake in a quick oven. 

Vinegar Cookies* 

Two cups of molasses, one of butter or lard, two eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one of ginger, one of sal- 
eratus, and flour enough to roll. Roll about half an inch 
thick, cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Sugar Cookies. 

On5 cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
two eggs, half a nutmeg, one teaspoonful saleratus, and 
flour enough to roll. Beat sugj^r and butter to a cream, 
then add the eggs, well beaten, dissolve tlie saleratus in 
the milk, and stir that in, tlien the floun 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



92 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Jumbles. 

Three cups of sugar, two of butter, three eggs, one teaf 
spoonful of saleratus, four tablespoonfuls of sour cream, 
and flour enough to roll. Beat sugar and butter to a 
cream, then add the eggs, which are well beaten, then the 
sour cream in which the saleratus is dissolved. Flavor 
with anything you please. Cut with an oval cutter. If 
you have a cutter that takes a piece out of the centre, use 
that. When you roll them, sift over the dough, before 
you cut it, granulated sugar, and then roll the pin lightly 
over it. This is a much better way than to sift the sugar 
on after the cakes are put in the pan, for when sifted in 
the pan it burns on it, and spoils the looks of the pan and 
cakes. Great care must be taken in baking all kinds of 
cakes which you roll on the board, as they bum very 
quickly ; and again, if they are not baked enough, they 
will not be nice, keep well, or be healthful. Where there 
are children, this is the most economical way to make 
cake, but takes more time ; and also in families where 
they do not care for cake, they are nice to keep in case of 
unexpected company. 

Blain Doughnuts* 

One pint of flour, half a cup of sugar, one spoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of sal- 
eratus, half a nutmeg, and milk enough to wet and roll. 
Soften the butter and mix with the milk (about one cup- 
ful) ; mix the sugar, saleratus, cream of tartar, and the nut* 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PLAIN CAKE. 93 

meg with the flour, and stir into the butter and milk. Af- 
ter beating well with the spoon, put on the board, roll 
about an inch thick, and cut in any shape you please. 
Have ready boiling lard or drippings, and fiy until done, 
which will be in about eight minutes. The addition of 
two eggs is an improvement, but not necessary. When 
you have finished frying, cut a potato in slices and put in 
the fat to clarify it, then set the kettle one side until it set* 
ties, then strain into an earthen pot (keep one on purpose 
for this), and set in a cool place. The sediments which 
remain in the bottom put in the soap-grease. Many per- 
sons fry doughnuts in the common frying-pan, but there 
is not depth enough to it. It is much better, if you have 
not an iron kettle that is deep enough, to use a tin basin. 

S,aised Doughnuts. 

One cup of sweet milk, one spoonful of butter, four of 
yeast, four of sugar, half a nutmeg, and flour to make a 
stiff batter; let this rise over night. In the morning roll 
out, cut in strips, with a jagging-iron, about four inches 
long and two wide, and fry. Common raised dough 
makes very nice ones to be eaten as soon as fried, either 
for breakfast or tea. 

Doughnuts should not be eaten before November or af- 
ter April ; indeed, they are not very healthful to eat at 
any time. Keep covered in a stone pot in the cellai. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Boiled Bice. 

Pick and wash clean one cupful of rice, and put into a 
basin with a pint and a half of cold water ; set on tlie 
stove where it will cook slowly ; or, better still, set into 
another basin of water, and cook slowly. When the rice 
has absorbed all the water, turn on it one quart of new 
milk, and stir in one tablespoonful of salt ; let this cook 
two hours, stirring often. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Boiled Bice. No. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice, and boil in one quart of 
boiling water fifteen minutes, and then drain dry. Wring 
a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, and spread in a 
deep dish, and turn the rice into it, and sprinkle in one 
cup of raisins and a tablespoonful of salt ; tie the cloth 
loosely that the rice may have room to swell, and boil 
two hours. Serve with lemon sauce, or sugar and cream. 

Baked Bice. 

Boil half a cup of rice in one pint of water thirty min 
utes, and then add one quart of new milk, and boil thirty 

94 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 95 

minutes longer; then beat together one cup of sugar, 
three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of dfelt, and a little lemon or 
nutmeg ; stir this into the rice and turn the mixture into 
a buttered pudding-dish, and bake thirty minutes. To be 
eaten without sauce. 



Baked Bice. No. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice ; put it in a dish that 
will hold two quarts and a pint, and cover with fresh 
milk; stir into this two teaspoonfuls of salt, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, and four of sugar. Set this in the 
oven, and stir once in every half hour ; after it has been 
baking two hours stir in milk enough to fill the dish, and 
bake one hour longer (the dish should be nearly full of 
milk at first). Serve with sugar and milk. 

Minute Budding. 

One pint of milk, one of water, nine tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Set the milk 
into a basin of hot water, and when it comes to a boil 
add to it one pint of boiling water. Have ready the flour, 
made into a smooth paste with one cup of milk, and mix 
with this paste, after fhey are well beaten, the two eggs ; 
now take the basin in which the milk and water are, and 
set upon the fire ; let it boil up once, and then stir in the 
thickening ; beat it well, that it may be smooth, and cook 
three minutes longer. Serve with vinegar sauce. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



ijS THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Com starch Pudding* 

One quart of milk, six tablespoonfuls of com starch, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk in a 
basin, and set the basin into a kettle with boiling water, 
and when jt comes to a boil stir in the corn starch and 
eggs, which prepare in the following manner : Wet the 
corn starch with one cup of cold milk, and then stir into 
it the eggs which are well beaten. After the starch is 
added to the boiling milk it will cook in three minutes : 
beat well to make smooth. Serve with sugar and cream 
or wine sauce. Never add the eggs after the starch has 
been stirred into the boiling milk ; if you do the egg will 
be in spots in it. 

Quaking Pudding* 

Take as much stale bread as will fill a quart basin after 
it is cut ; now butter well a tin mould or pail that will 
cover tight, and put in a layer of bread ; then strew in a 
few raisins, and then bread, and so on until the bread is 
all used (the bread must be cut very thin). Make a cus- 
tard of three pints of milk and six eggs, and season with 
salt and nutmeg ; turn this on the bread, and set away in 
a cool place two hours, and then set in a steamer and 
steam three. Serve with wine sauce. This may be 
boiled in a pudding-cloth. When boiled, prepare the 
same as for steaming, omitting the buttering of the dish, 
and let it soak two hours and a half, then turn into the 
pudding-cloth, tie tight, and boil two hours and a half. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 97 

Bride^8 Pudding* 

Make the same as plain corn starch pudding, using the 
yolks of six eggs. Butter a pudding-dish, and turn the 
pudding into it (do not fill within three inches of the top 
of the dish), and bake thirty minutes ; then take from the 
oven, and let it stand in a cool place twenty minutes ; 
then cover with a meringue. Set in the oven ten minutes, 
and serve with cold sauce. To make the meringue, beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat into 
them gradually one cup of sugar. This pudding is quite 
nice itiade with four eggs, but will not look so handsome. 

Bread Pudding. 

Take a quart basinful of stale bread, and soak in two 
quarts of sweet milk two hours (keep in a cool place 
while soaking) ; then mash well with a spoon, and take 
out all the h^rd pieces. Beat light four eggs and stir into 
this, then add two teaspoonfiils. of salt, a little nutmeg, 
and one fourth of a cup of sugar, if you serve it with 
sauce ; if not, one and a half cupfuls. Bake three quar- 
ters of an hour, tind serve with lemon sauce. Some put 
raisins in, but, it must be much stiffer if you have them, 
and the delicacy of the pudding is thereby lost. 

« Whortleberry Pudding* 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sour milk, four 
of flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, and one 
7 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



98 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

quart of berries. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, 
and add the eggs well beaten ; then the sour milk, in 
which the saleratus is dissolved, and then the flour, and 
lastly the berries. Wring the pudding-cloth out of boil- 
ing water and spread it in a deep dish; then turn the 
batter in and tie. Have ready a kettle of boiling water, 
and drop the pudding into it ; turn the pudding often, and 
boil three hours. Serve .with vinegar or wine sauce. 
This can be steamed, also. Allow half an hour longer to 
cook, when steamed. 



Plain Whortleberry Pudding. 

One pint of flour, one eg^^ half a pint of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, half of saleratus, and a 
quart of berries. Beat the egg to a froth and mix with 
the milk ; then stir in the flour, in which the saleratus 
and cream tartar are thoroughly mixed ; then the berries. 
Boil and serve as directed above. 



Boiled Apple Pudding. 

Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized mealy potatoes, and 
turn on them half a pint of boiling milk, and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of butter ; set in a 
cool place, and stir until about blood warm ; then stir in 
flour enough to roll, and roll about an inch thick. Have 
a two-quart basinful of apples, whicii are pared, cored, 
and quartered ; spread these on the paste and grate a little 
nutmeg over them ; then roll up the paste, and bojl as 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 99 

directed for berry pudding, and serve with either maple 
sirup, wine, or vinegar -sauce. This can be steamed, al- 
lowing four hours for it to cook. 



Bailed Batter Pudding. 

Take one cup of flour, and add to it gradually one quart 
of sweet milk ; then stir in one teaspoonful of salt and six 
well-beaten eggs. Turn this into the pudding-cloth, and 
tie tight, leaving room for it to swell one third. Boil two 
hours. Serve with wine sauce. Great care must be taken 
in boiling puddings to have the water boiling when you 
put the pudding in^ and to keep it boiling all the time. 
Steaming is the safer way^ and I would always st^am 
rather than boil, if I had the convenience. When boiling, 
always keep a kettle of boiling water to fill up, as it boils 
away from the pudding. For a pudding-cloth get three 
quarters of a yard of drilling. Keep an old saucer to put 
in the bottom of the kettle, in which you boil the pudding, 
to prevent its being burned. When you are ready to dish 
the pudding, have a pan of cold water, into which plunge 
it immediately upon taking it from the kettie (but do not 
let it stand, in cold water one second) ; then put it in a 
deep dish, and untie the string ; open the cloth and turn 
the pudding-dish on it ; then lift the pudding up by means 
of the cloth, and turn over. You will thus preserve the 
shape of the pudding. Batter puddings are very difficult 
to make, and I would not advise a young cook to try them 
at first 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



ICX> THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

Make a paste as directed for plain pie-crust, and line a 
dfsh with it, and fill the dish with sliced apples. To a 
dish holding three quarts, allow one cup of sugar, one 
half of molasses, one of water, one nutmeg, and half a 
teaspoon of cinnamon ; cover this with the paste, and 
bake slowly three hours. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or with cold sauce. 



Ban JDatvdy. 

Pare and slice tart apples enough to fill, about two 
inches deep, a flat earthen or tin pan. To three quarts of 
apple add one cup of sugar, one grated nutmeg, one cup 
of cold water, and butter the size of a walnut. Cover this 
with plain pie-crust (have the crust about an inch thick), 
and bake slowly two hours and a half; then cover and 
set where it will keep Aot one hour. Serve with sugar 
and cream. When done the apple will look red. Do 
not break the crust into the apple after baking, as by this 
means you spoil the pastry. If you wish to have it richer, 
cover with puff paste. 

Apple J>owdy. 

Pare and quarter about one dozen good tart apples, put 
them in a kettle with one cup of molasses, a small piece 
of butter, and one pint of hot water. Set this on the fire, 
and let it come to a boil, and while it is heating make a 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. lOI 

paste with one pint of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, 
one half of saleratus, and a little milk ; roll this large 
enough to fit into the kettle, and when the mixture begins 
to boil, put the paste in, cover tight, and boil gently twenty 
minutes. To be eaten without sauce. This is veryjiice 
when the apples are tart and it is made well. 



Apple Charlotte* 

Butter a brown earthen dish, and place around the sides 
slices of bread which have been cut about an inch thick, 
soaked in cold water, and buttered; fill the dish with 
sliced apples, and grate over them one nutmeg ; strew on 
one cup of sugar, and then pour on one cup of water ; 
this will carry the sugar through the apple. Cover the 
apple with slices of soaked and buttered bread, then cover 
the whole with a large plate, and bake in a very moderate 
oven four hours. Remove from the oven half an hour 
before time to dish, and set where it will be cooling. 
When ready to dish, loosen gently round the edges with a 
knife, lay the dish in which you intend serving it on the 
one in which it was baked, turn the dishes over, and lift 
the pudding-dish off. This is a very handsome dish. 
Serve with sugar and cream or plain. 

Apple and Sago Tuddi/ag. 

f 

Wash half a cup of sago, and set on the fire with three 

pints of cold water; simmer two hours; then stir in one 
cup of white sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and one of the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



I02 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

extract of lemon. Have ready a deep pudding-dish, in 
which, after it has been well buttered, put as many pared 
and cored apples as will stand in the dish ; turn over them 
the sago, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Tapioca and Apple Pudding* 

Prepare the tapioca as directed for sago. Pare and 
quarter ten tart apples, and when the tapioca is cooked 
stir them into it, turn them into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake one hour and a quarter. Remove the pudding 
from the oven half an hour before it is served, or it will 
be thin. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Boiled Tapioca lidding. 

Wash one cup of tapioca, and soak it one hour in one 
pint of cold water, then stir in one quart of milk and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt; set the basin into another of hot 
water, and set on the fire ; cook one hour and a half. 
Serve with sugar and cream. 

Baked Tapioca FUdding. 

Prepare the tapioca as before directed, allowing one 
pint more of milk for the same quantity of tapioca. Beat 
together pne cup of sugar and four eggs ; stir this into the 
tapioca, and flavor with lemon or nutmeg. Bake in a 
buttered dish half an hour. Serve without sauce, or omit 
the sugar and serve with wine sauce. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PUDDINGS. 103 

Custard Pudding. 

Beat together three tablespoonfuls of sugar and four 
eggs ; stir this into one quart of milk, with one teaspoon* 
ful of salt; flavor with nutmeg or lemon. Bake until 
firm in the centre ; this you tell by inserting the handle of 
a teaspoon. Do not let the oven get hot enough to boil it 

Bahed Indian Fudding* 

Three tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, one cup of molas- 
ses, two quarts of milk, two eggs, butter half the size of 
an egg^ one tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt ; boil one quart of the milk, and pour it boiling on 
the meal, then turn in the molasses, and next the cold 
milk, butter, ginger, salt, and eggs. Bake five hours in a 
moderate oven. Serve with cream. The eggs and gin- 
ger may be omitted if you choose. 

Cottage Budding. 

One spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, two of cream of tartar. Soften the butter, and then 
beat to a froth with the sugar and eggs ; then add the 
milk, and lastly the flour, in which the saleratus and 
cream of tartar are thoroughly mixed. Flavor with lemon, 
and bake in two shallow pudding-dishes half an hour, in 
a moderate oven. Serve with lemon sauce. The pud- 
ding is improved by sifting sugar over it, before baking. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



104 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Sponge Budding. 

Beat to a froth three eggs and one cup of sugar ; stir 
into this half a cup of cold water, and then two cups of 
flour in which are mixed one teaspoonful of saleratus and 
two of cream of tartar. Flavor with lemon, and bake in 
two shallow dishes. When baked, frost with frosting No. 
2, and let it stand in a warm place ton minutes, then send 
to the table with lemon sauce. Bake twenty-flve minutes. 

Italian FriUers. 

Cut stale bread into slices an inch thick, and soak them 
in a custard made with two eggs and a pint of milk ; then^ 
fry a light brown in boiling lard (have as much lard in- 
the pari as you would for doughnuts), and serve with 
either wine sauce No. 2 or cider sauce. Have the dishes 
very hot 

I have here given rules for twenty-three plain puddings, 
and if anything richer is desired, it will be found in Part 
Second. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PISS. 

riain Fie Crust. 

Into one quart of flour rub a large spoonful of salt and 
half a cup of lard, and then wet with ice-water enough to 
make a sofl paste ; roll this on the board until it is about 
half an inch thick, then spread on half a cup of washed 
butter, dredge with flour, and fold into a small square. 
Pound lightly with the rolling-pin, then roll out again ; 
roll it up, and set on the ice to harden ; it will be ready to 
use in two hours. In winter it can be used immediate- 
ly. To make the bottom crust, rub three quarters of a 
cup of lard into one quart of flour and one spoonful of 
salt, and wet with cold water, to make a sofl: paste. Do 
not roll, as it makes it tough. Butter fs more healthful 
than lard ; therefore, if you can afford it, use it. 

. Cream Paste. 

To one quart of flour add one spoonful of salt, and mix 
to a soft paste with sweet cream ; roll thin and spread with 
cream and dredge with flour, fold and roll again ; repeat 
this operation three times, then make the pies. Pies made 
with this paste taste nice, and are not hurtful, but do not 

105 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



I06 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

look SO handsome as when made with butter and lard. 
Look in Part Second for minute directions for making 
paste. 

Sliced Apple Pies, 

Line the plates with bottom crust, and fill the plate with 
quartered apples. To a common-sized plate allow two 
spoonfuls of sugar, a little nutmeg, and two spoonfuls of 
water. Cut the upper crust a little larger than the plate, 
and raise the under crust with the blade of the knife, and 
lay it under it. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 
When molasses is preferred, use three spoonfuls, and a 
little cinnamon instead of nutmeg. 

Stewed Apple JPies* 

Pare, core, and stew the apples with just water enough 
to prevent their burning. To a quart of stewed apple 
allow one cup of sugar. Bottom the plates and roll a 
piece of the top crust out (making it long enough to go 
around the plate), cut into strips an inch wide, and lay 
around the plate, then put in the apple. (Do not make the 
pie too thick.) Grate over it a little nutmeg, cover, and 
bake in a rather quick oven forty minutes. 

Dried Apple Piea. 

Cook the apple according to tlie directions given in Part 
Second, under Dried Apple^and make the same as stewed 
apple pie. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PIES. 107 

Berry Fies. 

Line the plates, and fill as full as you can with berries, 
and dredge on about half a spoonful of flour, and two 
spoonfuls of sugar, and two of water ; cover as directed 
for sliced apple pies, and bake forty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. All berry pies are made in this manner, if 
they are very sour using more sugar. Cherries and cur- 
rants do not require any water, but more sugar, and they 
must not be heaped in the plate 'as blueberries, black- 
berries, raspberries, and strawberries are. 

Mhubarb Fies, 

Cut the rhubarb in the morning, or if you buy it, always 
keep in a cool place until ready to cook it. Strip off the 
skin and cut it into pieces about an inch long ; stew in 
just water enough to prevent its burning; when cold, 
sweeten to taste. Cover the pie-plates, and roll the upper 
crust about half an inch thick ; cut into strips an inch wide, 
and afler filling the plate with the rhubarb, put on four 
cross-pieces and the rim. Bake half an hour. 

, Sqtiash Pies* 

Pare, boil, hnd sifl a good dry squash. To one quart 
of the squash pour on two of boiling milk, and then stir 
in two cups of sugar, two spoonfuls of salt, one of cinna- 
mon, one grated nutmeg, and five well-beaten eggs. Line 
deep plates witli plain paste, fill with the mixture, and 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



I08 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

bake one hour in a moderate oven. The pies look nicet 
to boil a stick of cinnamon in the milk, instead of using 
the ground. 

Cranberry JPies. 

Stew the cranberries according to directions in Part 
Second, and make the same as rhubarb pies. 



Oooseberry Bies. 

Stew the gooseberries in as little water as possible, 
sweeten to taste, and make the same as rhubarb pies. 



JPimiphin Bies. 

Pare and cut the pumpkin into small pieces ; wash and 
put into the kettle with one quart of water ; boil six hours, 
stirring often to prevent burning ; then run it through a 
sieve. Make the same as squash, adding a teaspoonful of 
ginger. They may be made without eggs by using five 
pounded crackers. Cook enough of the pumpkin at a 
time to last two weeks ; after you have kept it one week,-^ 
set in the oven and scald, then set away in a cool place. 

Custard Piesm 

Line a deep plate with paste ; make the custard the 
same as for custard pudding ; fill the plate, and bake un- 
til firm in the centre! 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PIES. 109 

Mince Fies* 

Boil a shank of beef six hours; then take .up and set 
away to cool. (Save the liquor for soup.) When cold, free 
from bones and cut off all the fat and gristle ; then chop 
fine. To one quart of the chopped meat add three of 
chopped apple, one pint of chopped suet, one quart of 
chopped raisins, one quart* of sugar, one of molasses, 
half a cup of cinnamon, one quarter of a cup of cloves, 
one quarter of a cup of allspice, one quarter of a cup 
of ground mace, six grated nutmegs, half a cup of salt. 
Mix this thoroughly with the handsy then turn on the 
mixture six quarts of g^od cider, and let the mixture 
stand over night In the morning scald, in a porce- 
lain kettle, one hour ; then put in stone pots ; cover tight 
and keep in a cool, dry place. This will keep three 
months. To tell the exact amount of spice and sweet- 
ening is almost impossible, as tastes vary ; but with a little 
judgment, and the rule I have given, I think there cannot 
be any very serious trouble. ' Prepare the paste and plates 
as for stewed apple pies, and put in the meat ; then g^ate 
a little nutmeg over it, and strew a few whole raisins in ; 
cover and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 



Moch Mince Fies. 

Two pounded crackers, one cup of molasses, one of 
cider, on^ of chopped raisins, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one of cloVe, two of cinnamon, one of mace, one 
nutmeg. Bake forty minutes. This quantity makes two 
pies. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



no THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 



Lemon Bies. 



Soak a pounded cracker in one. pint of new milk ; stir ia 
to this the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, which 
have been beaten with half a cup of sugar and the rind 
and juice of one lemon. Bake in a deep plate, which • 
has been lined with plain paste, half an hour. When 
cooked, beat the white of one egg to a froth, and stir in 
one spoonful of sugar ; set in the oven until a light brown. 

Cream JPiesm 

Three eggs beaten with one and a* half cups of sugar, 
half a cup of cold water, two cups of flour, in which are 
mixed one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar. 
Flavor with lemon. Bake in deep tin plates, such as you 
use for squash pies, and when cool spit with a sharp knife 
and fill. This will make four pies. 

MUing far Cream JPiea. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, half a cup of 
flour, two eggs. Put the basin, in which the milk is, into 
another of hot water. Beat the sugar, flour, and eggs 
together until they are light and smooth, and when the 
milk boils, stir in with one teaspoonful of salt. Cook < 
twenty minutes, stirring often. Flavor with lemon. This 
will fill four pies. « 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PIBS. Ill 



W€Mhingtan JPies. 

Make the outside the same as for cream pies, and fill 
with any kind of jelly or jam you choose. For richer 
pies look in Part Second. 



JRemarks. 

Always measure flour after it has been sifted, unless 
told to measure before. Always sift Indian and rye meal, 
and never sift Graham or oat meal. Always set milk into 
boiling water to boil, as it boils quicker in this way, and 
there will be no danger of burning. Save all the fat from 
soups, boiled and roast meats. The fat from beef, pork, 
and poultry, keep for shortening or frying ; and from ham, 
mutton, and soups, in which vegetables were boiled, for 
the soap grease. To clarify drippings, boil them a few 
minutes, and then cut in a raw potato, and let it cook for 
five minutes, then drop in a pinch of saleratus, and strain. 
If all the drippings are taken care of, it will be a great sav- 
ing in a family. In many of the rules given here it has been 
very difficult to say just how much spice to use, as tKere 
is such a difference in tastes, so that each one must use her 
own judgment ; but be careful that no one spice predomi- 
nates. Always use twice as much cinnamon and nutmeg 
as you do clove. In making frosting, pudding sauce, and 
all kinds of delicate cake, use the powdered sugar, if pos- < 
sible. For rich cake, the coffee-crushed, powdered and 
sifted, is the best. For dark cake, the brown sugar will 
be found the nicest It makes it richer. Save all the pieces 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Iia THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

of bread for dressing, puddings, and griddle cakes. Tin 
is not very good to mix cake in, and earthen dishes are 
always being broken. The stone china wash bowls are 
very good for this purpose. You can often find odd ones 
at the crockery stores, and they will last a lifetime for 
this purpose. In baking and frying, cook everything 
brown. Bread and pastry are more healthful over-done, 
than under-done. 

One even quart of sifted flour is one pound, one pint of 
granulated sugar is one pound, two good-sized cups of but- 
ter are one pound. Do not buy large quantities of Indian 
and rye meal at a time, as they sour quickly. Keep all 
kinds of meal, flour, and meats in a cool, dry place. Keep 
tea, coffee, and extracts from the air. Never set anything 
into the ice-chest while warm, as it will heat the chest and 
absorb an unpleasant flavor from the chest This is true of 
the cellar also. Keep a note-book for tried receipts, and 
for any changes which you wish to make in the receipts 
which you are constantly using. By thought ^nd obser- 
vation one can learn something new in regard to cooking 
every day, and at the time it will seem so important that 
yod cannot forget it ; but you will if you do not have it 
written. 

In the miscellaneous receipts will be found some very 
nice ones for the family table. They are receipts which 
I forgot, or did not receive until after the book was all 
wi itten and classified. But they were too valuable to be 
left out, and I therefore put them in under this heading. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

PART SECOND. 



Soup Stock, 

If you buy fresh meat for a soup stock, the shank is the 
most economical. Have it cut into several pieces, and 
the bone cracked, at the butcher's. Wash and put on to 
boil in two gallons of cold water, and one spoonful of salt 
(the salt helps the scum to rise). When it comes to ^ 
boil, take off the scum and set the kettle where the soup 
will just simmer for ten hours. Then strain into a nice 
tin, which is kept for this purpose, or a stone pot ; set 
where it will be cold, and in the morning skim off all the 
fat, then turn gently into the soup-kettle, being careful not 
to turn in the sediment. It is now ready to mak^ any 
kind of soup. If you wish to have a jelly in the morn- 
ing, boil it in six quarts of water. You can then, after 
taking off the fat, turn the jelly over, and scrape off the 
sediment. Use the meat for hash. Another way to 
make soup stock, is to cover the bones of roast meats with 
cold water and treat in the same manner. This sliould 
8 113 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



114 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

« 

always be done in boarding-houses and hotels; but in 
private families (unless very large), there is not meat 
enough consumed to do this. When making a stock, 
however, if there are any cold meat bones, they should 
be used. Professor Blot does not recommend boiling; 
but I have been more successful in obtaining clear soup 
in tJiis manner than when I did not let it boil. I would 
always boil my stock the day before it is to be used, as by 
this means only can fat be avoided, unless you buy all 
lean beef, which is very expensive. Do not boil vegeta- 
bles with the stock, as they cause it to sour quickly. 

Brawn Soup* 

Crack the bone of a shank of beef; take out the mar- 
row and lay in the bottom of the soup-kettle ; cut the meat 
from the bones and lay it in the kettle, set the kettle on the 
fire and brown the meat on all sides, being careful not to 
burn it. When well browned, put in the bones and two 
quarts of cold water, cover tight, and let it simmer one 
hour ; then put in a stick of cinnamon, eight whole cloves, 
a few pieces of mace, one onion, one carrot, half a turnip, 
and six quarts of water. Boil this six hours Very gently, 
strain and set away. In the morning skim off the fat and 
turn the sodp into the kettle ; let it come to a boil ; season 
to taste with pepper and salt ; cut in thin slices one fresli 
lemon and put into the soup, and then turn into the tu- 
reen. Send to table toasted bread, cut into small squares, 
in a separate dish. Some think that half a wine-glass of 
brandy is an improvement. 



Digitized ipy 



Google 



SOUPS. 115 

Brown Soup, No. 2. 

Lay the bones from a roast of beef and a roast of mut- 
ton in the soup-kettle. Cut up one onion, one small tur- 
nip, one carrot, one parsnip, and lay in the kettle ; then 
a blade of mace, a stick of cinnamon, ten whole cloves, a 
sprig of parsley, a sprig of sage, if you have them green, 
if not, a teaspoonful of each ; now dredge in a cup of 
flour, a tablespoonful of salt, half of pepper ; then pour 
on eight quarts of cold water, and boil five hours (skim 
carefully when it first boils) ; then strain through a sieve, 
and put back into the kettle with one cup of sago, and 
boil one hour and a half. Serve with toasted bread. Any 
kind of bones will make this, but beef is the best 

Brown Soup, No. 3. 

. Take two quarts of stock and boil with one onion, one 
carrot, one turnip, six whole cloves, one blade of mace, 
one stick of cinnamon, for one hour ; then strain into the 
tureen, and serve with toasted bread. 

Veget€ible Soup* 

Cut into strips two inches long and one fourth of an 
inch wide, two carrots, two parsnips, one turnip, and a 
very small piece of cabbage. Cover these with water and 
boil one hour ; then strain them and put in the soup-ket- 
tle with three quarts of stock ; let this boil up once* Sea« 
son with pepper and salt, and serve. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Il6 THS APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

JTiUienne Soup* 

This made the same as vegetable soup, putting in eveiy 
kind of a green vegetable. It is made in June, July, and 
the first of August. The stock should be very clear. 
(Omit beets.) 

Barley Soup* 

Wash half a cup of pearl barley, and boil it slowly in 
one quart of water three hours ; then turn into the soup« 
kettle, with three quarts of stock ; let this boil up, and 
season with pepper and salt. Serve. 

, Sago Soup* 

Make the same as barley, using sago. Two hours will 
cook it 

Ma4:aroni Soup. 

Made in the same way. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Made in the same way. 

Ox^tail Soup. 

Separate at the joints two ox-tails, put them on to boil 
with one onion, one carrot (have them whole), a few 
cloves, a blade of mace, and a stick of cinnamon. Boil 



Digitized by LjOOQi^ 



SOUPS. 117 

two hours; then strain the liquor into the soup-kettleji 
separate the tails from the vegetables, and spice, and put 
them into the kettle ; to this add two quarts of stock ; sea- 
son with pepper and salt ; boil up once,, and serve. 

Tomato Soup. 

Peel and slice tomatoes eno\igh to fill a two-quart basin ; 
put them into the soup-kettle with six quarts of water and 
two pounds of beef ; boil three hours ; season with pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of butter. Strain, and serve with 
toasted bread. 

CKblet Soup. 

Boil the giblets of six fowls in three quarts of water, 
with one onion, one carrot, one small turnip, one parsnip, 
a few cloves, a blade of mace, a stick of cinnamon, and 
two heaping spoonfuls of flour, for two hours ; then strain 
into the soup-kettle. Add to this two quarts of stock, 
and let it boil. Braid up the livers, chop the hearts and 
gizzards, and put them in the soup. Season with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

Tu/rhey Soup. 

Save the liquor in which the turkey was cooked ; the fol- 
lowing morning skim off all the fat ; cut all the meat from 
the part of the turkey which has been left from the din- 
ner of the day previous. Put the bones and liquor oh to 
boil with one onion, two parsnips, one small turnip. Boil 
three hours ; then strain, and put back with half a cup of 
tapioca, and some pieces of the cold turkey. Season with 



Digitize^ by LjOOQ IC 



Il8 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

pepper and salt. Boil two hours longer, stirring often to 
prevent the tapioca from burning. 



Chicken Soup. 

Set the liquor, in which two or three fowls have been 
boiled, away to cool. Skim off the fat, and then put it 
into the soup-kettle with one whole onion and half a cup 
of rice ; boil two hours. Just before dishing take out the 
onion, and put in some pieces of cold chicken. 

White Soup. 

Take any part of veal (the shin is the best), and allow 
one quart of cold water to one pound of veal, and to eight 
pounds allow one onion, three parsnips, one turnip, a stick 
of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Boil five hours, and 
season with salt and white pepper. When it has boiled 
four hours, thicken with two cups of flour. Boil one hour 
longer ; strain, and serve. 

Beef Soup. 

Boil six pounds of- beef in seven quarts of water, with 
one onion, one carrot, one turnip, and eight whole cloves, 
for six hours ; strain, and thicken with half a cup of flour, 
and boil one hour longer, then stir in some of the beef cut 
into small pieces, and serve. 

N. B. Use celery in all kinds of soup when you can 
obtain it. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



SOUPS. 119 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take the brains from a calf's head, and put them in a 
bowl of cold water ; wash the head, and let it stand in a pan 
of cold water two hours ; then put it in the soup-kettle with 
eight quarts of cold water and a shin of veal ; let this boil 
three hours, and then set away to cool over night In the 
morning cut up the veal and put into the soup-kettle, with 
a stalk of celery, one onion, one carrot, one turnip, two 
parsnips, three blades of mace, one stick of cinnamon, 
ten cloves, salt, pepper, and two heads of parsley. Cover 
this with three pints of cold water, and boil two hours. 
Strain this, and wash the soup-kettle, then turn the soup 
back. Now skim the fat from stock, and put that into 
the kettle also. Put into the frying-pan two spoonfuls of 
butter, and when it boils up stir in four of dry flour, stir 
until a dark-brown (but not burned), and when the soup 
boils up stir this in. Now braid half of the brains (which 
you tied in a muslin cloth, and boiled with the head), 
and stir them in. Stir in also a spoonful of walnut catsup, 
one of mushroom catsup, and one of tomato catsup. Boil 
two hours, and then put in the face cut in very small 
strips, one glass of port wine, and one lemon cut into thin 
slices, and let it boil up once, and dish. When in the tu- 
reen, i)ut in the egg balls. To make the egg balls, boil 
four eggs ten minutes, drop them in cold Water, and take 
out the yolks and pound them in the mortar until they are 
reduced to a paste, then beat them with one teaspoonful 
of salt, a little pepper, and the white of one egg. Make 
them into round balls the size of a walnut, roll them in 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



I20 THB APPLEDORS COOK BOOK. 

flour, and fry them brown in butter, being careful not to 
burn them. They are now ready for the soup. 



Oyster Soup. 

Wash one quart of oysters, if they are solid, in one 
quart of cold water ; if not, one pint of water ; dtain the 
water through a cullender into the soup-kettle ; set the 
kettle on the fire, and when the liquor comes to a boil, 
skim it ; then add one quart of rich new milk ; just before 
it comes to a boil, turn in the oysters, and thicken with 
two spoonfuls of corn starch wet with milk ; then stir 
in half a cup of butter, and season with pepper and 
salt. Let this boil up once, and serve immediately. Be 
very careful that they do not burn. A safe way is to boil 
the milk in a basin, which is set into anotheri»of water, 
and then turn it on the oysters just before removing it 
from the fire. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



FISH. 

Baked Cod or Salmon. 

Take a fish weighing eight or nine pounds, wash and 
dry it ; then lay in the pan, and skewer to keep the head 
and tail together. Stuff the belly and eyes with a stuffing 
made of chopped pork, pounded biscuit, sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, onions, and butter. Sew up the belly, and 
bake two hours. Flour well and baste oflen. Make the 
gravy in the following manner: Stir into one pint of boil- 
ing water two spoonfuls of flour wet with cold water, one 
spoonful catsup, a pinch of ground mace, half a teaspoon 
of ground parsley, and a glass of red wine ; salt and . 
pepper. Let this boil, and when the fish is dished, stir 
the gravy that is in the pan into the made gravy. Add 
the wine the last thing. Garnish the fish with sliced 
lemon and tlie yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Skin and cut into small ^pieces a cod or haddock, and 
lay in a deep earthen dish. Dredge in about half a cup 
of flour, one spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cut about two spoonfuls of butter into small pieces and 
strew in ; cover the whole with new milk, and bake forty 
minutes. 121 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



To Clean PouUry. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol ; tlien cut off 
the feet and tips of the wings, and the neck as far as it 
looks dark ; then, with the blade of a knife, take out all 
the pin-feathers ; now turn the skin of the neck back, and 
with the fore-finger and thumb draw out the crop and 
windpipe ; cut a slit in the lower part of the fowl, and 
draw out the intestines, being careful not to break the 
gall-bag, as it will spoil the flavor of the meat. It will 
be found near the upper part of the breast-bone and 
attached to the liver. Now wash thoroughly in several 
waters, and drain. If the poultry is at all strong, let it 
stand in water several hours, with either charcoal or sal- 
eratus. Split the gizzard, and take out the inside and 
inner lining ; wash and put on to boil in two quarts of 
cold water (this is for the gravy). 

Moast Turkey, 

Prepare as directed ; make a dressing witli six pounded 
crackers, one teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of 
salt, one of sage, one of summer-savory, one of parsley, 
two eggs, butter the size of an cggy and cold water to 

122 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



POULTRY* 123 

moisten ; stuff the turkey with this ; stuff the breast first, 
and the remainder put in the body. Now cross and tie the 
legs down tight ; run a skewer through the wings, fasten- 
ing them to the body ; fasten the neck under the body 
with a skewer, and tie all with a twine. Rub the turkey 
with salt, and spit it ; baste often with the drippings and 
flour, and occasionally with butter. About fifteen min- 
utes before dishing baste with butter, and dredge on a 
little flour; this will give it a frothy appearance. For 
eight pounds, allow one hour and three quarters, if roasted 
in the tin-kitchen ; if in the oven, one hour and a half, and 
fifteen minutes for every pound more or l^ss. Serve with 
giblet gravy and cranberry sauce. 

To make the gravy : Boil the heart, gizzard, liver, and 
neck in two quarts of water two hours ; then take them 
up and chop the gizzard and heart ; braid the liver and 
put them back again ; thicken with one spoonful of flour 
wet with cold water ; season with salt and pepper. Let 
this simmer one hour longer, and when you dish the 
turkey turn the drippings into this gravy ; boil up once, 
and send to the table. Make all the gravy for poultry in 
this manner, omitting the chopped gizzards in chicken 
gravy. 

Itoast Chicken. 

Prepare, stuff, and truss the same as turkey. A paii of 
chickens, weighing each two and a half pounds, will re« 
quire an hour and a quarter to roast if in the tin-kitchen ; 
one hour if in the oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



124 THB APPLBIX)RB COOK BOOK. 

B,oa8t Goose. 

Prepare, as directed for poultry, and stuff the body with 
a dressing made in the following manner : Pare and boil 
potatoes ; mash them and mix with one fourth of an onion 
chopped fine, one spoonful of sage, one of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a small piece of butter. Truss, and 
roast (if it weighs ten pounds) one hour and three quar- 
ters if in the tin-kitchen, but if in the oven one hour and 
a half. Make the gravy as for turkey, and serve with 
apple-sauce. 

Skim off all the fat before putting the drippings in the 
gravy. 

Roast I>uch» 

Prepare the dressing ad for goose, and roast before a 
hot fire forty minutes, or if in the oven have it very hot 
and roast thirty minutes. Serve with either apple-sauce 
or currant jelly. Make gravy the same as for turkey. 

This time cooks the goose and ducks rare. 



B,o<i8t JPo/rtridgeB. 

Clean and truss; then lard and roast thirty minutes. 
Serve with currant* jelly. To make the gravy: Put one 
spoonful of butter into a basin, and when it boils up stir 
in one spoonful of dry flour; stir until a dark brown; 
then pour on half a pint of boiling water. Season with 
salt, pepper, the partridge drippings, and a spoonful of 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



POULTRY. 125 

currant jelly. Or serve with bread sauce, the • rule for 
which you will find under sauces. 

To lard a bird : Cut fat salt pork into thin, narrow 
slices, and put one end of the slice through the eye of a 
larding needle. (You can obtain one at any kitchen fur- 
nishing store.) Now run the needle under the skin of 
the bird, and draw the pork half way through, having 
the pieces about an inch apart. 



Boast Grouse. 

If you stuff them, make the dressing the same as for 
turkey ; but they are not often stuffed. Roast thirty min- 
utes, and serve with currant jelly. The gravy made the 
same as before directed. 



Itoast JPigeons. 

^ Lard and roast the same as partridges. Make the 
gravy the same, with the addition of one teaspoonfiil of 
clove and half a wineglass of claret. The pigeons must 
be young, or they will not be nice roasted. 

Small Birds, 

Woodcock, quail, snipe, and plover may be cooked in 
the same manner as partridges, allowing fifteen minutes to 
roast, and serve on toast. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



¥&li£§01S[i 



Moast Venison. 

If in winter, keep the venison three weeks after being 
killed ; but if in summer, ten or twelve days will bo suffi- 
cient. Draw the dry skin from a leg of venison, and cut 
off the shank ; roast half an hour, and then baste with salt, 
water, butter, and flour ; when it has roasted one hour 
and a half, baste with claret wine. If it is to be served 
on blazers, two hours will cook a leg weighing fifteen 
pounds, but if not, roast four hours. A saddle of venison 
is cooked in the same way, but will require only half as 
much time to roast. To make the gravy, put the shank 
in a basin with three quarts of cold water, a few cloves, 
one onion, half a pound of beef, salt, and pepper ; boil 
until there is about a quart of liquor, then strain, and 
thicken with two spoonfuls of flour. When the venison 
is dished add the drippings and one glass of claret wine. 
Boil up once and serve. Have the dishes on which the 
venison is served and the plates very /lot. 

Venison steak and pile is cooked the same as beef. 

126 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Stewed Beef with Mushroofns* 

Very nice. Take five pounds of beef (with as much 
tendeiloin as possible), put in a pan, and set in the oven 
fifteen minutes; then take the meat and put in a small 
porcelain kettle, and dredge with salt, pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of mace, half of clove, half of allspice, and two spoon- 
fuls of flour ; now put in cold water enough to cover the 
meat, and stew slowly, keeping the steam in, three hours. 
Then put in half a tumbler of mushroom catsup and a glass 
of claret wine, and simmer half an hour longer. Serve 
with plenty of gravy. 

Fillet of Beef with Mushroofns* 

Cut the fillet into slices about an inch thick, and lay 
them an hour in melted butter, having first sprinkled them 
with salt and pepper. At the end of that time place them 
over a brisk fire, and when well browned on one side turn 
them and brown on the other. Then lay them in a hot 
dish, and into the butter that remains in the pan put one 
spoonful of dry flour, and brown ; when brown, add half 
a cup of boiling water, and half a wineglass of mushroom 

127 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



128 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

catsup or Maderia wine. Pour the gravy over the fillet, 
and serve. 

Alafnode Beef* 

Take six pounds of the round of beef, cut deep gashes 
in it, and rub into it a handful of salt, a spoonful of cin- 
namon, half of clove, half of allspice, one of mace, one 
of pepper, and half a cup of flour. Fill the gashes with 
dressing made as for turkey, with the addition of a little 
chopped onion. Sew the gashes together, and bind the 
beef with strips of cotton cloth. Lay the beef in a small 
kettle that can be covered tight ; put in a whole onion and 
cold water enough to cover the beef. Simmer three hours, 
and then make a thickening with four spoonfuls of flour, 
and 'Stir in, and at the same time stir in two spoonfuls of 
either mushroom or walnut catsup, and simmer one hour 
longer. Some persons think that the addition of a glass 
of claret or Madeira is an improvement ; but it is very 
nice without. 

BouiUi Beef. 

Take six pounds of lean beef and nib into it two spoon- 
fuls of salt, one half of pepper, one cup of flour ; then lay 
in a small kettle, which you can cover tight. Cut into 
this one carrot, one small turnip, one onion, two parsnips, 
and cover with cold water. When it comes to a boil skim, 
then set back where it will simmer three hours ; at the 
end of this time thicken with three spoonfuls of flour, and 
cut in three potatoes ; cover and simmer again one hour. 
If not seasoned enough, add more salt and pepper. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BNTREMBTS. 1 29 

BouUli Tongue* 

Boil and skin the tongue the day before, and prepare in 
the 8ame way as bouilla beef, allowing it two hours to 
simmer. 

Stewed Partridges. 

Place two partridges in a small kettle, and dredge with 
salt, pepper, flour, half a teaspoonfiil of mace, half of 
cloves, and cover with cold water. Cover tight and sim- 
mer two hours. Thicken with three spoonfuls of flour, 
and stir in two spoonfuls of catsup; simmer one hour 
longer, and serve. Grouse and pigeons are stewed in the 
same manner. Garnish all the foregoing dishes with paste 
cakes. 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Cut two chickens or old fowl into handsome pieces, and 
parboil them in just water enough to cover them ; when 
they are tender, take them up and drain them dry. Cut a 
pound of salt pork into slices, and fry them brown ; take 
up the pork, dredge the chicken witli salt, pepper, and 
flour, and fry a dark brown in the pork fat. When the 
chicken is all fried, stir into the remaining pork fat half 
a cup of dry flour ; stir this until a dark brown, then pour 
on it one quart of the liquor in which the chicken was 
boiled. (This liquor must be boiling.) Season with 
pepper and salt to taste. Lay the chicken in this gravy, 
and simmer twenty minutes. Garnish the dish with boiled 
rice. 

9 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



130 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

White Frieasaee of Chicken* 

Boil the chicken until tender, then cut it into small 
pieces. With the water in which it was boiled make a 
gravy, allowing half a cup of flour and two spoonfuls of 
butter to every quart of water. Season with pepper and 
salt ; turn in the chicken, and let it boil five minutes, and 
serve. Garnish the dish with boiled rice. 



Chicken Curry, 

Make the same as white fricassee, with the addition of 
one teaspoonful of Indian curry to one pint of gravy, if 
it is liked strong, if not, half a teaspoonful. Dissolve the 
curry in a little water, and stir in. Garnish the dish with 
rice. Veal and mutton can be curried in the same man« 
ner. 

Chicken Pie* 

Prepare the chicken as for white fricassee ; turn into a 
deep earthen dish and cover with a paste, and bake one 
hour. 

ScUad Dressing, 

One tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of cayenne pepper, and the yolks of 
three uncooked eggs. Put this mixture in an earthen dish 
and set on ice ; stir with a wooden or silver spoon until it 
is all well mixed, then add, very gradually, one bottle of 
table oil. Stir until very light ; then stir in half a cup of 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



ENTREMETS. I3I 

vinegar. One cup of whipped cream is a great addition to 
it ; stir in the last thing. Be sure that you stir evenly, and 
one way all the time. This is enough for four quarts of 



l^roUed Chicken* 

Split down the back, wash, and wipe dry, and broil over 
clear coals twenty-five minutes. Season with pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil tender four good-sized chickens ; when cold, cut 
off the white meat, and chop rather coarse. Cut off the 
white part of the celery and chop in the same manner. 
To two quarts and a pint of the chicken allow one quart 
and a pint of the celery and a spoonful of salt. Mix well 
together, and then stir in part of the dressing. Shape the 
salad in a flat dish, and pour over the remainder of the 
dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs, beets, and the 
tops of the celery. 

Lobster Salad* 

Lobster salad is made the same as chicken, using lob- 
ster instead of chicken, and lettuce instead of celery. 

Chicken ratfies* 

Make the shell as for tarts, only larger, and prepare the 
chicken as for white fricassee, but cutting it smaller, and 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



133 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

taking out all the bones. Fill the shells, and send to tlie 
table immediately. 

DeviUed Turkey. 

Take the legs (the first and second joints) of a roast 
turkey (if under done they are still better), and cut deep 
gashes in them, and into these gashes put a little mixed 
mustard, a little salt and cayenne pepper; lay on the 
gridiron until heated through ; then place on a very hot 
dish, and spread with butter. Serve immediately. Any 
kind of fowl may be served in th6 same way. 



dotted Figeon. 

Clean, then stuff the pigeons with a dressing made as 
for turkey. Sew them up and truss ; put them in a kettle 
with water enough to cover them, and boil half an hour, 
then take up and drain them. Roll them in flour, and fry 
brown in pork fat. Thicken the liquor in which they 
were boiled with flour, pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and 
catsup. Put the pigeons in this gravy and simmer two 
hours. Serve in the gravy. Add half a glass of claret 
if you choose. 

Figean Bie* 

Prepare as for stewed pigeons, then turn into a deep 
earthen dish, and cover with paste. Bake forty-five min- 
utes. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



ENTREMETS. 133 

QimU JPie. 

Lay the birds in a deep earthen dish, and season with 
pepper, salt, and a little butter; then dredge in flour. 
Nearly cover with cold water; cover with a paste, and 
bake one hour. 

Snipe Tie. 

Made the same as quail pie. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a tin plate with plain paste, and then put in two 
dozen oysters, sprinkle with a little pepper, salt, and grate 
on a little nutmeg. Strew in a little butter, and cover 
with a rich paste. Bake twenty minutes, and serve im- 
mediately. 

Oyster Patties, 

Make the shell the same as for chicken patties. Put 
one quart of oysters in a basin with their own liquor, and 
let them boil three minutes. Season with a little salt, pep- 
per^ and a heaping spoonful of butter ; fill the shells with 
this, and send to the table immediately. 

Oyster Roast* 

Cook the same as for patties, but serve on buttered 
toast 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



134 '^^^ APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 

ScaJloped Oysters. 

Put a layer of oysters in an oval dish, and dredge in 
a little salt, pepper, and butter ; then a layer of rolled 
cracker, and another of oysters ; dredge the oysters as be- 
fore, and cover with cracker ; over the cracker grate a lit- 
tle nutmeg, and lay on small pieces of butter. Bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven ; add a glass of Madeira 
wine if you choose. Allow four crackers, two spoonfuls 
of butter, and one teaspoonful of pepper to one quart of 
oysters. Fill the dish to within an inch of the top. 

Fried Oysters. 

Drain the oysters on a sieve ; roll them in cracker 
crumbs, and fry in boiling- lard a light brown. Serve on 
brown-bread toast. When you desire them fried in batter, 
make one as for apple fritters, and fry in boiling lard. 
Have the dishes very hot. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Prepare in crumbs as for frying, and broil a light brown* 
Examine oysters carefully to see that there are not pieces 
of shell among them. Some oysters need more salt than 
others. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Chop ^ne two pounds of cold veal ; season with one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, one of 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



entrbmbTs. 135 

butter. Mix with this two eggs and one fourth of a cup 
water. Mix this thoroughly, and make into pear shapes 
about the size of an egg. Have two well-beaten eggs ; 
dip the croquettes into them, and fry a light brown in 
boiling lard. 

Bice Croquettes. 

Boil one cup of rice, as for a vegetable, and when cool, 
mix with four well-beaten eggs, one grated nutmeg, half a 
cup of sugar, and if not salt enough, a little more salt. 
Make into pear shapes about the size of an egg^ then dip 
in well-beaten egg^ and fry in lard a light brown. 

Mtiearoni in Cream. 

Wash a pint of macaroni, and then put in a basin with 
cold milk ; set this into another basin with some water, 
and let it stand on the fire twenty minutes ; then take off, 
and when it gets cold, stir in one teaspoonful of salt and 
three well-beaten eggs ; turn this into a shallow dish, and 
bake twenty minutes. 

Queen Fritters. 

Into half a pint of boiling water stir half a cup of but- 
ter, and when this boils up, stir in one pint of flour ; let 
this cook about five minutes, beating well all the time ; 
then take off, and turn into an earthen dish. When this 
is cool, break five eggs into a dish, but do not beat them ; 
turn one third of the eggs into the dish with the paste, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



136 THB APPLBDORS COOK BOOK. 

and beat all together with the hand. When this is well 
mixed, turn in half of the remainder ; beat as before, and 
then add the remainder of the egg^ and beat twenty min- 
utes. Drop this paste in teaspoonfuls into boiling lard, and 
fry until they crack open (this will be in about fifteen or 
twenty minutes). Serve with or without sugar and wine. 



riain Fritters. 

Beat to a froth two eggs, and stir into this half a pint 
of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, two cups of flour ; beat 
this lightly, and drop by teaspoonfuls into boiling lard, 
and fry a light brown. 

Apple Fritters. 

Make the batter as for plain fritters. Pare and core 
nice tart apples ; cut them in thin slices, dip them in the 
batter, and fry brown. 

JPancdkes, 

Beat to a froth three eggs ; stir into this half a pint of 
milk, one teaspoonful of salt, and three tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Heat the frying-pan, and grease well with butter j 
turn one third of the batter into it, and fry a light brown 
on one side, shaking the pan frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. When brown on one side, turn and brown the other. 
When done, spread with jelly, fold, and serve immediate- 
ly. You can omit the jelly, and spread with sugar, if you 
choose* 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BaUimare Fudding* 

One cup of molasses, one of milk, one of chopped suet, 
one of chopped raisins, three and a half of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one 
teaspoooful of cloves, one of mace, one of allspice, and one 
grated nutmeg. Beat the molasses, suet, raisins, and spice 
together ; then stir in the milk, in which dissolve the salera- 
tus, then the flour. Steam five hours or more. You can- 
not steam it too much. This pudding is nicer the second 
day than the first. Serve with wine sauce. 

Wedding lidding. 

One cup of clear salt pork chopped fine, one of chopped 
raisins, two of sugar, three and a half of flour, two of 
milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one of cloves, one of 
cinnamon. Beat together the pork, sugar, raisins, and 
spice, then add the rtiilk, in which dissolve the saleratus, 
and then the flour. Steam four hours or more. Serve 
witli rich wine sauce. 

137 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



138. THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Plufn lidding. 

One quart of bread (bakers* is the best), one quart 
of milk, six eggs, one cup of brown sugar, one of mo- 
lasses, one of suet, one teaspoohful each of cinnamon, 
clove, allspice, mace, and nutmeg, one cup of currants, 
one of raisins, one quarter of a pound of citron. Boil the 
milk, and pour on the bread ; let this stand one hour ; then 
stir into it the sugar, spice, suet, raisins, and currants ; 
beat the eggs to a froth, and stir in. Have ready a deep 
earthen pot well buttered, and turn the mixture into it, and 
bake four hours, or steam five. Serve with rich wine 
sauce. 

Christmas Pudding* 

Ten crackers, one quart of milk, five eggs, one pint of 
sugar, one and a half cups of chopped suet, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of brandy, one spoonful of salt, one 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls 
of cloves, two of allspice, two of mace; two of currants, 
two of raisins, and a quarter of a pound of citron. Break 
the crackers up and soak in the milk over night. (Set in 
a cool place where it will not sour.) In the morning mix 
with it the sugar, molasses, suet, salt, spice, brandy, and 

fruit. Boil or steam five hours. Serve with a rich wine 

\ 
sauce. \ 

Bre4id and Butter JPudding. - 

Butter a deep pudding-dish ; cut a small brick loaf into 
thin slices, and butter them ; lay a layer of them in the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 139 

dish, and then sprinkle with raisins, currants, and thin 
slices of citron, then another layer of bread, and so on, un- 
til the bread is all used ; cover with a custard made with 
nine eggs, one cup of sugar, three pints of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, and one nutmeg. Let this stand three 
hours, and then bake one* hour and a half in a moderate 
oven. Serve with a rich wine sauce. 

Snow JPtidding. 

Soak half a box of Cox's sparkling gelatine in half a 
cup of cold water two hours ; pour on this nearly a pint 
of boiling water, stir until the gelatine is all dissolved, 
and then stir in two cups of sugar and the juice of two large 
lemons ; stir this a few minutes, and then add the whites 
of six eggs. Now set the basin into another of ice-water, 
being careful not to let it come over the basin in which the 
mixture is. Beat this until it is white and stiff; turn into 
the dish in which it is to be served, and set on the ice 
until the last moment 

Sauce for Snow Pudding • 

Beat together the yolks of six eggs and half a cup of 
sugar ; add to this two spoonfuls milk and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Put one pint of milk into a small tin pail ; set 
the pail into a basin of boiling water (be careful that it 
does not boil into the milk) ; let this come to a boil, and 
then stir in the eggs. Stir this two minutes, and then 
take off and set in ice-water ; stir occasionally until cool. 
Have it ice cold and flavor with vanilla. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



140 TftS APPLBDORS COOK BOQK. 

Cocoanut lidding* 

One quart of milk, one teaspoonful of butter, the yolks 
and the whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cocoa- 
nut and milk of cocoanut. Bore a hole in the cocoanut and 
drain out the milk ; then crack the nut and take from the 
shell ; pare off the brown skin and grate. Butter a pud- 
ding-dish and lay the cocoanut in it, then pour over it the 
custard. (Scald the milk before making the custard.) 
Bake in a moderate oven until it is firm in the centre, 
which you can tell by cutting with the handle of a tea- 
spoon. Frost immediately upon taking from the oven, 
with the whites' of two eggs and one cup of sugar beaten 
to a stiff froth. 



Cocoanut Fudding, No. 2. 

Six eggs, one cup of sugar, one quart of milk, one 
cocoanut, milk of cocoanut. Prepare the cocoanut as for 
No. I. Beat the eggs and sugar to a froth, stir in the 
milk and then the cocoanut ; butter a pudding-dish, turn 
in the mixture, and bake twenty or thirty minutes. When 
the fresh cocoanut is not in the market, use one cup of the 
desiccated cocoanut and the juice of one fresh lemon. 

Ginger lidding. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of sal* 
eratus, two of cream of tartar, four eggs. Beat the sugar 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 141 

and butter to a cream, then stir in the eggs, which are 
well beaten ; then the nlilk, and last the flour, in which 
the saleratus, ginger, and cream of tartar are well mixed. 
Bake in a pudding-dish forty-five minutes. Serve with 
lemon or vinegar sauce. 



Beverly Fudding» 

« Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized potatoes; pour 
over them one quart of boiling milk ; stir well, and let it 
get cold ; then add to it the yolks of five eggs and the 
whites of three, beaten with one large cup of sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of two lemons. Bake thirty minutes, 
and then frost with the whites of two eggs and one cup of 
sugar beaten to a stiff froth ; set back in the oven until it 
is a delicate brown, then set away to cool. To be eaten 
ice cold. 

Ltefmon Pudding* 

One quart of milk, a piece of butter the size of an cgg^ 
one heaping cup of sugar, one cup of ground rice, the 
rind and juice of two lemons, six eggs. Take one cup of 
milk from the quart and put the remainder in a tin pail ; 
set the pail into a basin of boiling water. Wet the rice 
with the cup of cold milk, and when the milk begins to boil, 
stir it into it with one teaspoonful of salt ; let this boil ten 
minutes, then take off and let it get blood warm. Beat 
the eggs, sugar, and lemon together, and stir into tne 
mixture. Bake in a buttered dish half an hour. To be 
eaten cold. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



143 THB APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Budding^ No. 2. 

One cup of flour, butter the size of a small ^%%^ three 
pints of milk, eight eggs, the grated rind of four and the 
juice of two lemons. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the beaten eggs, and stir all into the boiling milk ; set 
this away to cool, and when cold, add the lemon and three 
cups of sugar. Line the pudding-dish with paste, or not, 
sis you choose. Bake thirty-five or forty minutes. ^ 

Com Pudding. 

Put one quart of popped corn in a pudding-dish ; stir 
into one quart of milk two teaspoonfuls of salt, and turn 
the milk on the corn. Bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

"Boiled Cherry Pudding. 

One brick loaf soaked until soft in one pint of new milk ; 
then add three eggs well beaten, and one quart of ripe 
cherries. Boil two hours and a half. Serve with either 
wine or vinegar sauce. 

Baked Whortleberry Pudding* 

One cup of butter, tvvo of sugar, four of flour, one of 
sour milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful Of saleratus, four 
cups of berries. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream ; 
then add the eggs, which have been well beaten, then 
the milk, in which the saleratus is dissolved, and lastlyi 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 143 

the berries. Bake one hour, and serve with a rich wine 
sauce. 

Appledare Pudding. 

Butter a pudding-dish and line it with stale cake ; then 
fill it within three inches of the top with blueberries, 
blackberries, or currants. To one quart of blueberries 
or blackberries allow half a cup of sugar, if currants al- 
low one cupful. Cover the whole with cake, and wet with 
half a tumbler of wine. Bake half an hour, and frost with 
the whites of two eggs and one cup of sugar beaten to a 
stiff froth ; set back in the oven, and bake a light brown. 
To be eaten without sauce. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Pare ^nd core six large apples (being careful not to break 
them). Make a sirup of one quart of water and one cup 
of sugar ; simmer the apples in this until they are tender, 
but not so tender but that they will keep their shape ; lay 
them in a pudding-dish, and cover with a custard made 
with one quart of milk, five eggs, and three spoonfuls of 
sugar. Bake until the custard is firm. May be eaten eitl er 
cold oi<4iot, and without sauce, 

I Rice Meringue. 

Two cups of boiled rice, one quart of milk, the yolks 
of six eggs and the whites of four, two spoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of the extract 
of lemon. Bake thirty-five minutes ; then frost with the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



144 I'HB APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 

whites of two eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one ta- 
blespoonful of corn starch, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake a light brown, and serve hot without 
sauce. 

Pavilion Fudding* 

Lay in a mould alternate layers of fruit and silver cake. 
(Cut the slices about two inches thick.) Make a custard 
with six eggs, one quart of milk, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Pour this over the cake, and let it stand in a cool 
place two hours ; then stoam three hours. Serve with a 
rich sauce. 

Frozen Fudding. 

Place in a mould slices of light cake, and between them 
any kind of preserves ; when the mould is nearly full, cover 
with cold soft custard. (Dissolve a spoonful of gelatine 
in the custard when you make it) Cover the mould and 
pack in a box of salt and ice, as you would ice cream. 
Let this stand in the salt and ice fi\Q hours. When you 
dish it dip the mould in a pail of hot water for one instant, 
wipe the mould, take off the cover, and turn the pudding 
out. Serve immediately. Be sure that the cover cf the 
mould is so tight that it will not admit one drop of water. 
It should be made of block tin. 



Fruit Fudding. 

Take one quart of cake crumbs and mix with a custard 
made of a pint and a half of milk, four eggs, one spoon 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PUDDINGS. 145 

fill of sugar, two spoonfiils of wine, and a little nutmeg ; 
let this stand half an hour, and then stir in half a cup of 
currants, one cup of raisins, and a few strips of citron. 
Butter a pudding-dish, and turn in this mixture. Bake 
one hour. Serve with a rich wine sauce. 



Almond Thudding. 

Pound to a paste one pint of blanched almonds. Boil 
one quart of milk, and into it, while boiling, stir in the al- 
monds and two spoonfuls of flour, mixed with cold milk, 
one teaspoonful of salt ; cook this ten minutes. Let this 
get cool, and add five well-beaten eggs and half a tea- 
spoonful of bitter almond, with one cup of sugar. Bake 
thirty minutes. Serve cold or hot 

Sunderland Pudding. 

Beat to a froth six eggs. Mix gradually one quart of 
milk with one cup of flour ; stir into this the eggs and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Bake twenty minutes in little earthen 
cups, such as you bake drop cakes in. Serve immediate- 
ly with rich sauce. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

Butter a pudding-dish, and line the sides with slices of 

stale sponge cake. Pare and cut a large pineapple into 

thin slices ; place a layer of it in the bottom of the dish, 

and sprinkle with sugar, then another layer, and so on, 

10 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



146 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

until the dish is nearly full ; then pour over the whole two 
thirds of a cup of cold water, and cover the whole with 
slices of cake which have been dipped in cold water. 
Cover the whole with a plate, and bake slowly two hours. 
Serve with sugar and cream. (Use in all one cup of 
sugar.) Bread may be used instead of cake. 



Omelet Souffle* 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs and two spoonfuls 
of sugar ; then beat to a froth the whites of eight eggs and 
stir into the yolks and sugar. Flavor with half a teaspoon- 
ful of bitter almond. Turn into a buttered dish and bake 
twelve minutes. Serve instantly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Tuff JPaste. 

Two cups of butter, one quart of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, one of powdered sugar. Wash the butter in 
cold water until it is light and waxy ; divide into two parts, 
and set in the ice chest one hour. Mix the sugar and salt 
with the dry flour, and then wet with ice-water enough 
to make a soft paste (mix with a knife, and use the hands 
as little as possible) ; roll this on the board with the roll- 
ing-pin, about half an inch thick ; now cut one of the 
cakes of washed butter into thin slices, and spread on 
the paste ; dredge with flour and fold up ; then pound 
lightly with the pin, and then roll out as before, and 
spread the second cake of butter the same as the first ; 
dredge and fold again ; now roll thin as before, and then 
roll up and place on a plate, and set in the ice chest one 
or two hours. When ready to cover the pie, cut just 
enough from the end of the roll to cover the pie ; sprinkle 
the board with a very little flour, place the paste upon it, 
and flour the -rolling-pin with the hand; now roW foom 
you, and towards your lefl: hand ; roll very lightly until the 
right size; then cover and bake immediately, ^uick* 
ness and elasticity are very important, also the washing 

147 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



148 THE APPJ.BDORB COOK BOOK. 

of the butter. Use as little flour as possible in rolling the 
paste, and always make it in a cool room. It is a mistake 
to think the paste must be hard to be good ; always have 
it soft enough to roll easily. 



€freen Apple JPies. 

Pare, quarter, core, and stew nice tart apples in water 
enough to prevent them from burning. When tender, 
sweeten very sweet with white sugar, fill the pie-plate, 
which has been lined and edged with paste, grate on a 
little nutmeg,*cover and bake forty-five minutes. 



Dried Apple Biesm 

Pick and wash one quart of dried apples, and put in a 
porcelain kettle with two quarts of water and two of 
cider ; let this stand over night, and in the morning place 
on the fire and simmer three hours ; then lay in (but do 
not stir) two quarts of sugar, and simmer two hours 
longer ; then turn into a stone pot, and put away for use. 
Make the pies the same as green apple. 

JPe€ich IHes. 

Line the plate with plain paste, and lay in the plate' five 
peaches, which just press between the fingers, but do not 
take out the stones, as they flavor the pie ; now fill the 
plate with peaches which have been cut in two and the 
stones taken out. Sifl: over this a small cup of sugar, and 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PIES. 149 

then add two spoonfuls of water. Cover and bake in a 
moderatQ oven one hour. Do not peel the peaches ; they 
are very much better not to be. 



Blum Fiesm 

Made the same as peach. 

Mince Pies. 

Two pounds of tender lean beef; chop it while raw very 
fine ; take one cupful of chopped suet, two pint bowlfuls of 
chopped apple, one of stoned raisins, half a bowlful of cur- 
rants, half a pound of citron, one bowlful of sugar, one half 
of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of mace, two of cinnamon, 
one of allspice, one of cloves, four grated nutmegs, three ta- . 
blespoonfuls of salt. Mix all this thoroughly with the hands,- 
and then add one quart of cider. Put the mixture in a 
large earthen pan, and place over a kettle of boiling water 
and scald ; if there is not sugar and spice enough, season 
to taste. When scalded, stir in one pint of wine and half 
a pint of brandy. Do not let any one kind of spice pre- 
dominate. If not moist enough, use more cider. Prepare 
the plates as for apple pies, and spread in a cupful of the 
mince meat and cover with a rich puff paste. Bake one 
hour. 

Lefnan JPles. 

Line a medium-sized plate with plain paste, and rim 
with three thicknesses of puff paste ; set the plate in a cool 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



150 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

place until the filling is ready. Beat to a froth one teacup 
of sugar, the rind and juice of one lemon, and the yolks 
of two eggs ; then beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, and stir in with one spoonful of milk ; turn this 
into the plate which you have prepared, and bake in a 
moderate oven forty-five minutes. Or you may line a deep 
plate with plain paste, as for squash pies, and turn the mix- 
ture into it, and bake forty minutes. This is very nice if 
the directions are exactly followed. 



Lemon Ptes, No. 2. 

The juice of two and the rind of three lemons, one cup 
of butter, one and a half of sugar, eight eggs. Beat the 
sugar, butter, lemons, and the yolks of the eggs together ; 
then add the whites beaten to a stift' froth. Bake in deep 
plates, line with plain paste, fifly minutes, in a moderate 
oven. 

Marlborough Pies. 

Steam until tender six good-sized tart apples, and then 
run them through the cullender ; stir in, while they are 
hot, one spoonful of butter ; when cool, stir in the yolks 
of three eggs, the rind and juice of one lemon, and one 
teacup of sugar,, which have been beaten together. Bake 
in a moderate oven forty minutes, in a deep plate, as 
squash pies. Cut and bake little cakes of puff paste, and 
when the pie Is cold, garnish it with them. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Itich Wine Sauce. 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter, and very gradu- 
ally beat in one cup of sugar, one spoonful of com starch, 
one wineglass of wine, and the white of one e^g. When 
this is a perfect froth, stir in one third of a cup of boiling' 
water ; set this in warm water for two minutes, stirring 
all the while, and then serve. 

JPlain Wine Sauce. 

Put into a sauce-pan one cup of sugar and one cup of 
water ; grate into this half a nutmeg, and put on the fire 
to simmer ; let it simmer half an hour, and then add one 
glass of wine ; simmer ten minutes longer, and serve. 



Lemon Sauce. 

Beat to a froth one spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one spoonful of corn starch, and two eggs. When very 
smooth and lights add one cup of boiling- water. Set the 
basin into boiling water, and stir five minutes. Season 
with lemon, and serve. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



152 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Vinegar Sauce. 

One cup of boiling water, one of sugar, one t^blespoon- 
ful of flour, one of vinegar, and a little nutmeg. Mix the 
flour with a little cold water, and stir into the boiling sugar 
and water ; then stir in the vinegar and nutmeg, and boil 
twenty minutes. Wine sauce is very good ma^e in this 
manner, using wine instead of vinegar. Season with a 
litde salt. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



BISH&S FOE THi: SICiBL. 

Beef Tea. 

Cut half a pound of lean beef into very small pieces ; 
do not have a grain of fat on it, and put into a bottle that 
has a large opening (an olive or horseradish bottle will be 
nice) ; put in half a cup of cold water, and cork tight ; set 
this in a basin of cold water, and place on the fire where 
it will come to a boiling point, but not boil ; keep it at 
this temperature for two hours, then strain, and season 
with salt. 

Chicken Broth. 

Put the bones and about one pound of the lean meat 
of chicken into a sauce-pan with three pints of water. 
When it comes to a boil, skim well. Simmer three hours, 
and strain and salt If the patient can bear it, a little 
rice or tapioca boiled with it is an improvement. 



Oatmeal Oruel. 

Into one quart of boiling water, sprinkle two table* 
spoonfuls of oatmeal ; let this boil forty minutes ; season 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



154 '^"^ APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

with salt, strain, and serve. If sugar, milk, or cream is 
wished, it may be added. 



Indian Meal Chruei. 

One quart of boiling water ; stir into this one spoonful 
of flour and two of Indian meal, mixed with a little cold 
water. Boil thirty minutes. Season with salt, and strain. 
Use .sugar and cream if you choose. If flour is not liked, 
use another spoonful of meal instead. 

JPlum Porridge, 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir two spoonfuls of 
flour mixed with cold milk ; put in -a handful of raisins 
and a little grated nutmeg. Boil twenty minutes. Season 
with salt, and strain. 

Com Tea* 

, Brown, and pound in a mortar, one cup of sweet dry 
corn ; pour on this two cups of boiling water, and steep 
fifteen minutes. This is very light and nutritious, and can 
be taken where the patient is very weak. 

Cream Toast, 

Heat half a cup of cream, and season with salt. Toast 
two slices of bread a light brown, and pour the cream 
over it. Serve immediately. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. I55 

Wine Whey. 

Let one cup of new milk come to a boil, and then stir 
in half a wineglass of sheny wine. Boil a moment, and 
strain. 

Vinegar Whey. 

Boil one cup of milk, and stir in one spoonful of vine- 
gar ; if this does not make it whey, stir in a little more ; 
when it curdles, strain.* 



Sour Milk Whey. 

To one cup of boiling sweet milk, add one cup of sour 
milk, and strain. 



A good Drink for the Lungs. 

Wash clean a few pieces of Irish moss ; put it in a 
pitcher, and pour over it two cups of boiling water. Set 
where it will keep at the boiling point, but not boil for 
two hours. Strain, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon. Sweeten to taste. If the patient cannot take 
lemon, flavor with wine, vanilla, or nutmeg. 



Another JDrink* 

Beat lightly one egg and one spoonful of sugar. Stir 
into this one cup of new milk, half a wineglass of wine, 
and a little nutmeg. This is nice without the wine. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



1$^ THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

Another Drink. 

Upon one teaspoonful of slippery-elm, pour one cup of 
boiling water, strain, and season as Irish moss. 



Lemonade* 

The juice of one lemon and one spoonful of sugar. 
Pour on this one cup of boiling water, and set away to 
cool. 

Another Beef Tea. 

Cut a pound of lean beef (the round is the best) into 
dice. Put into a sauce-pan, with a teaspoonful of salt, 
one of flour, and one fourth of pepper. Pour on this a 
large pint of cold water. Let it stand an hour or two, 
then put on the fire ; bring slowly to a boil, and boil 
slowly an hour. If it has boiled away too much, add a 
little hot water ; but this rather hurts it. Skim off care- 
fully every particle of fat. This tea is more palatable 
than the other, and can be taken by those not extremely 
sick. 

8ach JPoaset. 

Pound one Boston cracker, or one soda biscuit Put it 
in a pint of cold milk ; set on the fire, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Beat together one egg^ one wineglass of wine, 
a little sugar, salt, and nutmeg. Turn this into the sim- 
mering milk, stirring constantly ; boil up once, and take 
from the fire immediately. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Charlotte Busae* 

Cut stale sponge cake into slices about half an inch 
thick, and line three moulds with it, having a space of 
half an inch between each slice ; set the moulds where 
they will not be disturbed until thq filling is ready. Now 
take a deep tin pan and fill about one third full of either 
snow or pounded ice, and into this set another pan that 
will hold at least four quarts. Into a deep bowl or pail, 
put one pint and a half of cream (if the cream is thick 
take one pint of cream and half a pint of milk)^ whip the 
cream to a froth, and when the bowl is full, skim the froth 
into the pan which is setting on the ice ; keep on doing 
this until the cream is all froth ; now with the spoon draw 
the froth to one side, and you shall find that there is some 
of the cream which has gone back to milk ; turn this into 
the bowl again, and whip as before ; when the cream is all 
whipped, stir into it two thirds of a cup of powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, and half a box of gela- 
tine, which has been soaked in cold water, enough to 
cover it, one hour, and then dissolved in boiling water 
enough to dissolve it, which will be nearly half a cupful ; 
stir all this from the bottom of the pan until it begins to 
grow. stiff ; then fill the moulds, and set them on the ice 
in the pan for one hour, or until they are sent to the table. 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



158 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

When ready to dish them, just loosen them at the sides, 
and turn out on a flat dish. Have the cream ice cold 
when you begin to whip it ; it is a good plan to put a 
lump of ice into the cream while you are whipping it. 

The directions being so long, may make it appear to be 
a long ani hard process ; but it is not so, for it is easily 
and quickly made. The whip-chum you can get made 
at your tinman's for a trifle, and as it will be found neces- 
sary to have one to make many of these dishes, I give 
below directions for making it. 

A, is a hollow cylinder of tin, perforated in 
the bottom and upon the sides, as repre- 
sented above. 

B, handle. 

C, dash of tin, and perforated like the bot- 
rD torn of the cylinder. 

D, cover, fitting close upon the upper end 
of the cylinder. Have the cylinder three 
inches in diameter, and ten inches in 
height : the dash two and three-quarters 
inches in diameter, and the handle thir- 
teen inches long. To be made of block 
tin. With care this will last in a private 
family fifty years. 

Note. — The whip-churn, for making Charlotte Russe and 
creams, can be procured at Sweetser & Clark's, Market Street, 
Portsmouth, N. H., and at F. A. Walker & Co.'s, 83 & 85 Corn- 
hill, and Nos. 6 & 8 Brattle Street, Boston, Mass. 

Holland Cream. 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake 
and vanilla. Flavor with half a wineglass of Holland 
gin. Shape in blanc-mange moulds. 




Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DESSBRTS. 159 

liemon Creams. 

The grated rind of one and the juice of two lemons, a 
pint of water, one pint of sugar, six eggs. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and the lemon together, then add the 
water ; let this stand one hour ; then stir in the pint of 
sugar and the yolks of the six eggs, and place over a gen- 
tle iRre, until it thickens. Sttr continually. When it is 
thick, set one side until it is cool enough to turn into 
glasses ; then fill the glasses, and set where they will get 
very cold. • 

Velvet Cream* 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake 
and vanilla, and flavoring with half a wineglass of wine. 
Shape in blanc-mange moulds. 



ItalioAf^ Cream,* 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake, 
and adding five well-beaten eggs. Shape in blanc-mange 
moulds. 

Chocolate Cream,* 

. Soak one box of gelatine in cold water enough to cover 
it one hour. Put one quart of rich milk into a tin pail, 
and set in a kettle with hot water to boil.- Scrape two 
ounces of French chocolate, and mix with eight spoon- 
fuls of sugar ; wet this with two spoonfuls of the boil- 
ing milk, and rub with the bowl of the spoon until a 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



l6o THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

smooth paste, then stir into the boiling milk ; now stir 
in the gelatine, and then stir in the yolks of ten well- 
beaten eggs ; stir three minutes, take off and strain ; set in 
a pan of ice water ; stir for ten minutes, then add two 
spoonfuls of vanilla, and put into blanc-mange moulds ; 
set away on the ice for three hours. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Blanc-fnange made wUh OelaUne* 

Soak a box of gelatine in cold water enough to cover 
it one hour. Put three pints of milk in a -tin pail, and 
set in a kettle with hot water ; when the milk comes to a 
boil, stir in the gelatine and two spoonfuls of sugar. Fla- 
vor with vanilla or lemon, strain into blanc-mange moulds, 
and when cool, set on ice to harden. Make this, if possi- 
ble, the day before it is to be used. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

M088 BlanC'fnange* 

Free from pebbles and seaweed, and wash in several 
waters one cup of Irish moss (get that that is not pressed) ; 
let it soak in cold water one hour, then tie up in a mus- 
lin bag, and put in a tin pail with three quarts of new milk. 
Set the pail in a kettle with hot water, and boil thirty 
minutes; after it comes to a boil, stirring occasionally. 
Press the bag between the side of the pail and the spoon, 
to get out all the gluten ; stir in a teaspoonful of salt, half 
a cup of sugar, and flavor with anything you please. 
Turn into blanc-mange moulds, and set away to cool. 
Serve with sugar and cream. This is the best kind of 
blanc-mange. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



- DESSERTS. l6l 

BlanC'fnange in Wine Sauce, 

Put one quart of new milk into a basin, and set the 
basin in another with hot water. When the milk comes 
to a boil, stir in four spoonfuls of corn starch, mixed with 
half a cup of milk and one teaspoon of salt; stir and 
boil for ten minutes, and then turn into a blanc-mange 
mould. Set away to cool. When time to serve, turn into 
a deep dessert-dish, and pour over it the following sauce : 
Beat to a cream the yolks of two eggs, one heaping cup 
of sugar, and a wineglass of wine ; then stir in the whites 
of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Serve immediately. 
Always dip the moulds in cold water before filling them 
with blanc-mange or cream. 

Wine Jelly. 

Soak one box of gelatine in half a pint of cold water 
two hours ; then pour on a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and stir until the gelatine is all dissolved, but do not Set 
near the fire ; now add the juice of two lemons, and 
sweeten to your taste. Wring a piece of thin muslin out 
of hot water, and lay in a fine strainer ; strain the jelly 
through this (after adding one pint of wine to it). Make 
the day before using. 

Xenum Jelly • 

Make the same as wine jelly, using the juice of eight 
lemons, and one pint more water instead of the wine. 
This is very handsome when you make half of each kind, 
II 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 62 THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

and cut it up in small squares, and fill wineglasses with 
it. Put half of each kind on a plate. Wine jelly may 
be colored a bright pink by using cochineal ; yellow, by 
using tincture of saffron, and green, by using the juice of 
spinage ; but I would not recommend the use of any col- 
oring. 

Soft Custard. 

Put one quart of new milk into a tin pail, and set the 
pail into a kettle with boiling water, and sweeten with 
one cup of sugar. Beat well the yolks of ten, and the 
whites of four eggs, and mix with them half a cup of cold 
milk. When the milk comes to a boil, strain the eggs 
into it and stir two minutes ; then take off and turn into 
a pitcher ; set the pitcher in ice water, and stir until cool. 
Flavor with vanilla. Serve in glasses. 

Almond CuMwrd. 

Almond custard made in the same way, using the yolks 
of fourteen eggs and no whites, and flavor with one tea- 
spoonful of bitter almond. 

Snowball Custard. 

Snowball custards are made the same as soft. Beat 
the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and drop into clear 
boiling water; boil two minutes, and skim out; let it 
drain, and when the custard is put in glasses heap this on 
top. They make the dish look very handsome. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DESSEJITS. 163 

Chocolate Custard. 

"Set one quart of milk on to boil as before directed. 
Scrape with a knife one ounce of nice chocolate, and mix 
with one heaping cup of sugar; wet this with two. spoon- 
fuls of boiling milk ; work this into a paste with the back 
of the spoon, and stir into the boiling milk, and then stir 
in six well-beaten eggs; stir three minutes, and then 
strain. Set in cold water and stir occasionally, until cold, 
then stir in two teaspoons of vanilla. Serve in glasses* 

Coffee Custard, 

Tie one cup of ground coffee in a piece of muslin, and 
put on to boil with one quart of milk ; let it boil ten min- 
utes afler the milk comes to a boil ; then take out and stir 
in one heaping cup of sugar, and the whites of four and 
the yolks of eight eggs ; stir two minutes and strain ; set 
in cold water, and stir occasionally until cool. Serve in 
glass. All custards are improved by a very little salt. 

Steamed Custards. 

Make the same as for baked, and steam until they are 
firm in the centre. 

Bahed Custards. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, two thirds of a cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt Fill the cups, and grate 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



1 64 THK iVPPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

over them a little nutmeg ; then place in a deep pan, with 
warm water. Bake in a moderate oven until they are 
firm in the centre. 



Floating Island* 

Make the same as snowball custard, and serve in a deep 
glass dish, with the whites of the eggs heaped in the 
centre. 

Apple Snow. 

Pare, slice, and quarter ten good-sized tart apples; 
steam them until tender, and then run them through the 
cullender, and set where they will get ice cold. When 
cold, add the grated rind and the juice of two lemons, 
one cup of sugar, and the whites of six eggs. Beat all to 
a froth, and serve immediately in a deep glass dish. 

Tipsy Parson. 

Stick a large square of sponge cake full of blanched 
almonds, and then lay it in a deep glass dish ; pour over 
it a tumbler of sherry, and when the wine has all soaked 
into the cake, fill the dish half full of soft custard. 

Apple Float. 

Fill a deep glass dish half full of sofl custard, and then 
heap up with apple snow. (Make the custard with the 
yolks of the eggs.) 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DBSSBRTS. 165 

Trifle, 

Cut stale cake into slices, and spread preserves between 
them ; lay in a deep glass dish, and heap the dish full of 
whipped cream. 

Wine Whips. 

Into a pint of cream, stir half a cup of sugar, half a 
glass of wine, and a lump of ice ; whip to a froth, and 
fill the glasses. 

Fruit Whips. 

Fill the glasses one third full of any kind of preserved 
berries or jelly, and then fill up with whipped cream. 



Mock Sherbet. 

Fill a six quart pan with new-fallen snow.; grate the 
rind and squeeze the juice of six lemons into it, and then 
stir in four cups of sugar. Serve immediately. This can 
also be made with currant jelly. 

Cream Cakes. 

One pint of boiling water, one cup of butter, one quart 
of flour, and the yolks of eight and the whites of ten 
eggs. Put the water and butter in a flat sauce-pan, and 
when it boils up, stir in all the flour at once ; keep over 
the fire, and beat well for five minutes ; then when cold 
break the eggs into a bowl, but do not beat ; turn about 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



l66 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

three at a time on the paste, and beat all together half an 
hour. When light, drop on tin sheets. Have half a 
spoonful in a cake, and drop about two inches apart 
Bake forty minutes in a rather quick oven. When baked, 
cut open at the sides with a small sharp-pointed knife, 
and fill with a cream made as for cream pies. These are 
very nice glazed with chocolate and filled with raspberry 
or strawberry preserves. 



Sponge Drops* 

Beat to a froth three eggs and one teacup of sugar ; stii 
into this one heaping coffee cup of flour, in which one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half of saleratus are 
thoroughly mixed. Flavor with lemon. Butter tin sheets 
with washed butter (lard or salt butter will make them 
taste bad), and drop in teaspoonfuls about three inches 
apart. Bake instantly in a very quick oven. Watch very 
closely, as they will burn easily. Serve with ice cream. 



Kisses* 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, and beat 
into them, very gradually, two teacups of powdered sugar 
and two tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Flavor with lemon. 
Butter tin sheets with washed butter, and then cover with 
letter paper ; drop on this the mixture in teaspoonfuls, and 
about two inches apart. Bake fifteen minutes in a warm 
oven, but be sure that it is not warm enough to bvown them. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DESSERTS. 167 

After they are taken out let them stand until cold before 
removing them from the paper. 



Cocoanut JDropa. 

Beat to a froth the whites of two eggs, and add gradu- 
ally one small cup of sugar, and one cup of prepared 
cocoanut, and one spoonful of flour. Prepare the tin sheets 
as for kisses, and bake five minutes in a quick oven. 



Cheese Cakes* 

Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, aod 
cut into two equal parts ; on one part grate cheese about 
half an inch thick ; sprinkle with water, and lay the other 
part over it ; roll the pin lightly over this and cut into strips 
about two inches wide and four long ; lay on tin sheets, 
and bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Tarts. 

Roll pu^ paste about an inch and a half thick ; cut with 
a large cutter, and then with a smaller cutter ; cut out the 
centre, leaving the rim about an inch wide. When you 
have cut out all you want, take the pieces which you cut 
from the centre, and roll about one quarter of an inch 
thick ; cut this out with a large cutter, and wet with cold 
water ; lay the rims on these, and bake in a quick oven 
about twenty-five minutes. When cold, fill with any kind 
of jam or jelly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



l68 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

IHrectians far Freezing. 

Set the freezer in the centre of the tub ; be sure that 
everything is in place, or it will not work when you get 
it packed. Have the ice chopped fine, and put in a layer 
about three inches deep, then a layer of coarse salt about 
an inch deep, and then the ice, and so on, until the tub 
is full, having the ice last Use about one third salt, and 
two thirds ice. It must be packed very solid. After the 
cream has been put in, and you have turned it ten minutes, 
pack again, and be sure to get it solid. When the water 
is troublesome, let off some, but not all. Stop the hole 
immediately, and pack to fill the space that was occupied 
by the water, as the mixture will not freeze until all air is 
excluded. Beat one way until you can no longer turn 
the beater. Now carefully brush the ice and salt from the 
cover and take out the beafer ; cover again and put a cork 
in the cover. Now pack again with ice and salt. Cover 
the whole with a piece of old carpet, and let it stand a 
few hours. Or if you wish to put it in moulds, fill them 
as soon as you take out the beater ; pack them down well, 
or they will not look smooth when faken out. If you use 
an old-fashioned freezer, you must have a long iron spoon 
to beat it with, and a long knife to cut it from the sides 
with. Turn the freezer with the hands ; take off the cover 
every fifteen minutes. Scrape the cream from the sides, 
and then beat, as you would cake, for ten minutes. When 
hard, light, and smooth, cover as before directed, or put 
in moulds. Lay the moulds in ice and salt for three 
hours, and when ready to dish, dip them in warm water 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DESSERTS. 169 

for an instant. Wipe and turn the mould on an ice cream 
dish ; remove very gently. Serve immediately. 



Ice Cream made with Cream,. 

Take four quarts of cream and sweeten with one heap- 
ing quart of sugar. Flavor with anything you please, but 
very strong. 

Coffee Ice Cream* 

Made the same as chocolate, but using coffee instead of 
chocolate. Tie one pint of ground coffee in a piece of 
muslin, and boil in the milk for half an hour before ; then 
take it out, and make as before directed. 

Ijem4>n Ice Cream* 

Put two quarts of rich milk into a tin pail, and set into 
a kettle with hot water ; when this comes to a boil, stir in 
four spoonfuls of corn starch ; wet with one cup of milk. 
Cook this twenty minutes, and then add the yolks of 
twelve eggs, well beaten, stir a few minutes, and then 
take off and cool ; before cooling, stir in one heaping 
quart of sugar. When ice cold, add two quarts of cream, 
or rich milk will answer, and freeze. 

Vanilla, pineapple, and all other kinds of cream may 
be made in the same way, but use eight whites and yolks 
instead of twelve yolks of eggs. For strawberry and rasp- 
berry cream, allow the juice of one quart of berries to one 
gallon of cream. Some persons obiect to corn starrh 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



I'JO THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

but it makes a very much smoother and handsomer cream 
than when it is all made of eggs. Where all eggs are 
used, make the same as soft custard, and allow one quart 
of cream or milk to one quart of custard. 



Chocolate Ice Cream* 

Made the same as the others, with the addition of one 
cake of chocolate, and one pint more of sugar. Prepare 
the chocolate as for chocolate custard. 



Lemon Sherbet, 

One gallon of ice water, the juice of twenty lemons, and 
three pints of sugar ; strain into the freezer, arid freeze as 
you would cream. 

Currant, strawberry, raspberry, and orange sherbets 
may be made in the same manner. 

N. B. To flavor ice creams, use the extract Lubin's 
is the best. 

JRomun I^nch, 

Two quarts of cold water,. one of Madeira wine, half a 
pint of brandy, the juice of six lemons, and two quarts of 
sugar. This is very hard to freeze. In winter use snow 
instead of ice. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Bemarks. 

When making pies and cakes, the first thing to be done 
is to build your fire and get your oven just right. Now 
sift your flour, and measure it; count and break your 
eggs ; measure every thing you are going to put in the 
cake ; lard your pans and line them with paper. Here is 
a formula, which it will be well to follow in making all 
kinds of cake in which you put butter. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and ^^en add the sugar 
gradually ; then spice and any kind of liquor which you 
use, then the milk, then the eggs well beaten, then the 
flour, in which always mix thoroughly, while dry, the 
saleratus and cream of tartar, and if firuit, let that always 
be the last thing to be added. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake* 

One coffee-cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, 
one of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two 
of cream of tartar, lemon. This will make two good- 
sized sheets. Bake one half plain, and the other half 
spice with one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one half of clove, 
the same of allspice and nutmeg. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. 171 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



173 THE APPLEDORB COOK BOOK^ 

Itich Cup Cake. 

One cup pf btftter, two of sugar, four and a half of flour, 
one wine-glass of brandy, five eggs, three spoonfuls of 
milk, and one nutmeg. Make two loaves of this, and 
bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes. 

Concord Cake. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of sour milk, four 
and a half of flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
and the rind and juice of one lemon. Make intd two 
loaves, and bake in a moderate oven fifly minutes. 

Lemon Cake. 

One teacup of butter, three of sugar, four and a half of 
flour, one of sweet milk, five eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
of saleratus, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Bake 
in two loaves, in a rather quick oven, forty-five minutes. 

Harrison Cake. 

One and a half cups of butter, one and a half of sugar, 
one and a half of molasses, one and a half of milk, six of 
flour, three eggs, one glass of brandy, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two 
of cinnamon, two of mace, one pound of raisins, one of 
currants, quarter of a pound of citron, lemon. Bake in 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CAKE. 173 

three loaves, two hours and a half, in a moderate oven. 
This will keep twelve months. 

Bangor Cake. 

Two thirds of a cup* of butter, two of sugar, one half of 
milk, three of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one half of saleratus. Flavor to taste, and bake 
in sheets in a rather quick oven, thirty minutes. 

BarUett Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, four eggs, one wine-glass of whiskey, one cup of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar. 
Bake in two loaves in a moderate oven about one hour. 

Dawn East Cake. 

One tablespoonful of melted butter, one cup of milk, 
two of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful pf saleratus, two 
of cream of tartar. Bake in sheets, in a quick oven, and 
eat hot with butter. 

New York Cup Cake. 

One tumbler of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, one 
of milk, four eggs, one wine-glass of*wine, one teaspoon- 
ful each of cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, saleratus, and two 
cups of raisins afler they are boiled. Bake in two loaves, 
in a moderate oven, about an hour. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



174 THE- APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Champagne Cakes, 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four eggs, one wine- 
glass of champagne, half a teaspoon of saleratus, and flour 
enough to pat out with the hand. Make into small flat 
cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Queen Cake. 

One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, half a pint 
of milk, one pint of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus, half a pound of currants, lemon. Bake iifllWo 
loaves, in a moderate oven, nearly an hour. 

Loaf Cake. 

Two cups of butter, five of sugar, two of sour milk, 
eight of flour, one teaspoon of saleratus, six eggs. Fla- 
vor to taste. This will make four large loaves. 

Itaisin Cake* 

Two thirds of a cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, 
two thirds of milk, three of flour, one of chopped raisins, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of 
saleratus. Bake in sheets in a quick oven. 

Tufnbler Cake* 

One tumbler of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, one 
of milky five of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salera- 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CAKE. 175 

tus, two of crearn of tartar, spice to taste; one pound of 
raisins, one of currants, half a pound of citron. Bake in 
a moderate oven two hours. 

. Marble Cake. 

TTie White Part. — One half of a cup of butter;* one 
and a half cups of sugar, two of .flour, one half of milk, 
the white of four eggs, half a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one fourth of saleratus. Flavor with lemon. 



tie iRlf 



rk Part. — One half a cup of butter, one of sugar, 
oneTRlf of molasses, two and a half of flour, one half of 
niilk, the yolks of four and the white of one ^%%'i half a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, half of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace. Drop 
the white and dark in spoonfuls, alternately. This will 
make two loaves ; bake two hours in a moderate oven. 



CafnjH>siMan Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, one half 
of milk, two and half of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one half of saleratus, spice, and fruit 
to your liking. This makes one large loaf. Bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 

Camtnon FiruU Cake. 

One and a half cnps of butter, four of sugar, seven and 
a half of flour, six eggs, one wine-glass of brandy, one 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



176 . THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of nutmeg, 
one of mace, one of allspice, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
and raisins and currants as many as you choose. Bake in 
a moderate oven two hours or more. This quantity 
makes three loaves. 



DeUeate Cahe. 

Butter the size of an eg^^ one cup of sugar, one of flour, 
the whites of five eggs, half a teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
of cream of tartar. Flavor with bitter almond, an(U3ake 
in a quick oven. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one of sugar, half of milk, two of 
flour, three eggs, the whites beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one half of skleratus. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake in thin sheets in a quick oven. This 
is nice to eat, while fresh, with ice. cream. 



CruUers, i^^^ i** i^iohton. 

A piece of butter the size of an eggy one cup of sugar, 
one nutmeg, three eggs. Make stifi*with flour, and cut In 
fanciful shapes. Fry in boiling lard. / 

Fourth of July Cake. mes. t. leightoh. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, two of 
currants, oiie of chopped raisins, one half of citron, one 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CAKB. 177 

glass of wine or brandy, mace, nutmeg, clove, and lemon, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, ten 
eggs. Bake about two hours and a half in a moderate 
oven. The quantity will make two loaves. Frost 



Oinger Found Cake* 

Two cups of butter, two of sugar, two of molasses, 
three eggs, nine cups of flour, two tablespoonfuls of gin- 
ger, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two of saleratus, one 
nutmeg. This will make three large loaves. 

Bound Cake. 

One and a half cups of butter, three of sugar, four of 
flour, ten eggs, — beat the whites separately, — one tea- 
spoonful of mace. Bake in a rather quick oven forty 
minutes. 

Pound Cake. No* 2. 

Two cups of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of 
flour, twelve eggs, the yolk of one left out, one teaspoon- 
ful of mace. Bake in a rather quick oven forty minutes. 
Always beat the eggs separately for pound cake, and stir 
in tlie whites the last thing. 

Wedding Cake. 

Two cups of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of 
flour, ten eggs, one wine-glass of brandy, one of wine, 
12 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



178 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

the rind and juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful of 
mace, one of clove, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, half 
a teaspoonful of saleratus, one of cream of tartar, one 
pound of raisins, one of currants, half a pound of citron. 
Bake in a moderate oven three hours. This will make 
two large loaves. 

Gold Cake. 

One cup of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, the 
rind and juice of two lemons, the yolks of fourteen eggs. 
Bake in sheets about two inches deep, in a rather quick 
oven, and about forty-five minutes. 

Golden Cake* No* 2* 

Golden cake made the same as the silver, with the 
yolks of the eggs and half a cup more of flour. Flavor 
with lemon. 

Silver Cake* 

One and a half cups of butter, three of sugar, the whites 
of fourteen eggs, a pint and a half of flour, one teaspoon 
of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful bitter 
almond. Bake in -a quick oven, in sheets about two 
inches deep. 

Silver Cake* No* 2* 

Haifa cup of butter, one of sugar, one half of milk, two 
of flour, the whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CAKB. 179 

of tartar, one half of saleratus. Flavor i^th almond, and 
bake in sheets in a rather quick oven. Strew in strips of 
citron. 

Sponge Cake. 

Beat to a froth seven eggs and two teacups of sugar ; 
stir into this two coffee-cups of flour, in which is mixed 
one teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream of tartar. 
Flavor with the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Bake in sheets in a moderately hot oven. This is very 
nice. 

Sponge Cake, No. 2* 

One pint of sugar, one and a half of flour, twelve eggs, 
one lemon. Beat the sugar, the juice and grated rind of 
the lemon, and the yolks of the eggs together, then beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture ; and 
lastly stir in the flour vei-y lightly. Bake in sheets about 
half an hour. 

Berwick Sponge Cake* 

Twenty-five eggs, one pint and a half of sugar, one 
pint and a half of flour, the grated rind of three and the 
juice of one lemon. Put together and bake the same as 
No. 2. 

Coeoanvt Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, the whites often eggs, 
four cups of flour, one of milk, one cup of prepared cocoa- 
nut soaked in the milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



l8o THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

of cream of tarM'. Bake in sheets in a rather quick oven* 
If you use the fresh cocoanut, use two cups of it. 

Orange Cake. 

Beat to a froth four eggs and one and a half cups of 
sugar; stir into this one small cup of cold water, and 
then two cups of flour, in which are mixed one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, and one half of saleratus. Bake 
and split the same as cream pies. 

MUing for Orange Cake. 

Beat to a froth the white of one egg^ and mix with it 
gradually one cup of powdered sugar, and the rind and 
juice of one orange. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Make the cake like orange cake. Filling : one quarter 
of a cake of Baker's chocolate, one half a cup of milk, one 
of sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Beat the sugar, chocolate, and eggs together, 
and stir into the boiling milk ; boil until thick, and then 
add the vanilla. 

Chocolate Icing, 

Beat, to a froth the white of one egg, and then beat in 
gradually one teacup of powdered sugar, which is mixed 
with a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate. Flavoi 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



CAKE. X8l 

with one teaspoonfiil of vanilla. Split any kind of light 
cake and spread with jelly ; then put on the icing, and set 
in a warm oven a few moments to harden. 



White Mountain Cake* 

Make like Concord cake, and bake in sheets about one 
inch thick ; have all the cakes the same size. Have three 
cakes in a loaf; lay one cake on a board and spread with 
frosting, then lay another on top of that, and spread this 
with frosting ; then lay on the third, and frost the whole, 
and set where it will dry. This is very handsome, and 
will keep a long time. 

VaniUa Janibles. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one wine- 
glass of wine, one spoonful of vanilla, and flour enough 
to roll out. Roll as thin as the blade of a knife, and cut 
with an oval cutter. Bake on tin sheets, in a quick oven, 
until a dark brdwn. These will keep a year, if kept in a 
tin box and in a dry place. 



Digitized by vJOOQ IC 



In making preserves, use a porcelain kettle, which 
should be used for nothing else. Have also a large wooden 
spoon, which keep expressly for this use. Be very care* 
fill not to let the sirup bum or boil over, and always skim 
carefully. Look at your preserves once a month at least, 
and if they are beginning to ferment, scald and skim. If 
they mould on top that will not injure them, but will keep 
the air from them and thus protect them. Be very care- 
ful when removing it not to get any of it in the sirup. Pre- 
serves should be kept in a cool, dry place. Always seal 
them while hot, as by this means you do not seal air in ; 
but if they are allowed to grow cold before sealing they 
will not keep so well. Heat the jars before putting the 
preserves in, by setting them in a pan of warm water, 
and let it heat gradually until it comes to a boiling point. 
Cut note-paper in round pieces about two inches deeper 
than the mouth of the jar ; make a paste with the white 
of an egg and a little flour ; wet the edges with it and 
paste on. 

Preserved Peaches* 

Pare and cut in two peaches that have begun to mellow, 
but they must be ripe. Take out the stones and then put 

i8a 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PRESERVES. 183 

the fruit in a large earthen dish, cover with coffee crushed 
pugar. For every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar. 
J-.et this stand over night, and in the morning turn the 
sirup into the preserving kettle, and clarify ; then put in 
the peaches and cook until tender, which will be in about 
thirty minutes. Lay them in a stone pot, and pour the 
boiling sirup over them. When cool, put in small jars, 
and paste note-paper over the top. Keep in a cool, dry 
place. 

JPreserved Tears* 

Pare, but do not cut them up. Weigh them, and then 
boil until tender in just water enough to cover them. 
When tender, take them out and make a sirup of the water 
in which they were boiled, and the sugar; allow one 
pint of water and one pound of sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Boil this one hour, and then put in the pears and 
one sliced lemon to every pound ; boil gently for forty 
minutes, then take up, and when cool put in jars. Boil 
the sirup until thick, and if the jars are stone, pour over 
the pears while hot. 



Crab Apple Breserves. 

Wash the apples and drain ; leave the stems on them. 
Make a sirup with the same weight of sugar thai you have 
apples, and half a pint of water to a pound of sugar ; sim- 
mer the apples in this forty-five minutes, and then take 
out and lay in a stone jar. Let the sirup simmer one hour 
longer, and turn boiling on the apples. Seal while hot, 
with note-paper. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



184 THB APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

JPreserved Tineapple. 

Pare and cutthe pineapple in slices about an inch thick. 
Cover with an equal weight of sugar, and let it stand over 
night In the morning proceed as with peach preserves. 



JPreserved CUran Meion. 

Pare and cut the melon into handsome pieces about an 
inch thick. Boil gentiy until tender, in just water enough 
to cover it ; as soon as it is tendet, take out and lay in a 
platter, and put more on to boil. Do this until all is 
cooked* Now make a sirup of the weight of the melon 
in sugar (which weigh before cooking) and the water in 
which it was boiled. Let this boil one hour ; then put in 
the melon, and one lemon sliced to each pound of mel- 
on ; a few cloves. Simmer fifty minutes, then take up and 
boil the sirup half an hour longer, then pour over the 
melon while hot. 

JPreserved Apples. * 

Pare and quarter good tart apples ; preserve them the 
same as melon, omitting tlie cloves. They are nice to 
use late in the spring and early in the summer for green 
apple pies ; but as a preserve, they are too insipid. 

JPreserved Plwms. 

Take the weight of the plums in sugar, and to two 
pounds of sugar allow half a pint of water. Make a 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 






PRBSBRVBS. 185 

sirup of this, and when clear, boil the phims in it for 
forty-five minutes. Do not put many in at a time. When 
they are all done, let the sirup boil an hour, and pour ov^r 
them while hot* Seal with note-paper. This rule will 
answer for all kinds of plums. 



Treserved Cherries. 

Cherries are preserved the same as plums. 

JPreserved Quinces, 

Pare, quarter, and cut out the cores. Save the parings 
and cores for jelly. Preserve the same as pears, omitting 
the lemon. 

Maspberry Jam. 

Take equal weights of raspberries and sugar ; put the 
berries in a dish and cover with the sugar, and let them 
stand over night. In the morning put in the kettle and 
boil two hours (skimming carefully), and put up in jars; 
seal with note-paper. Strawberries and blackberries are 
cooked in the same manner. 

Barberries Preserved wUh Pears. 

Weigh the barberries, and make a sirup of an equal 
weight of sugar, allowing half a pint of water to a pound 
of sugar. When the sirup is clear, put in the barberries 
(which must be free from stems), and boil fifly minutes. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



l86 THB APPLSDORS COOK BOOK. 

When the barberries are 'all cooked, put as many pears, 
pared and quartered, as you have barberries into the sirup, 
and boil until tender ; then take up and put with the bar 
berries. Boil the sirup thirty minutes, and then pour boil* 
ing over the fruit. 



Barberries JPreserved in MokMses* 

One peck of barberries, six quarts of molasses. Pick 
the barberries free from stems and imperfect ones. Let 
the molasses come to a boil, then put in the barberries, and 
boil about fifty minutes. They will be clear and full when 
done. Skim them out and put in the jars. Save two 
quarts of the sirup for drinks, and turn the remainder 
over the barberries. Be very careful that the molasses 
shall not burn. Sweet apples may be cooked with these 
in the same manner that pears are cooked with those done 
in sugar. 

Orape MamuUade* 

Put the grapes in a stone pot, and set the pot into a 
kettle with cold water ; set this on the fire and boil until 
the grapes will mash easily ; stir them oflen, and jam with 
bowl of the spoon. Take them up and strain through a 
sieve. To a quart of the pulp allow a pint of sugar, and 
boil forty minutes. 

Currant JeUy. 

To be nice the currants must be Just ripe^ and neithet 
more nor less. Put them, stems and all, into a stone pot| 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PRBSKRVES. 187 

and cover to keep the steam in. Set the pot into a kettle 
with cold water, and place on the fire. Boil until they 
will all jam easily. Jam them with the bowl of the spoon. 
Lay a piece of thin muslin in a sieve, and turn the cur- 
rants into it ; squeeze the juice through. If you are care- 
ful to have it clear now, you will not have to strain it after 
the sugar is added. To a pint of juice add a pint of sugar, 
and boil fifty minutes. Take it off the fire and let it 
stand until so cool that it will not break the glasses, but 
no longer, and then fill the glasses ; let them stand in the 
sun a few days, and then seal with note-paper. 

CtMrrant Shrub* 

Make the same ^s jelly, but boil only ten minutes. 
When cool, bottle. Raspberry, strawberry, and black- 
berry shrubs made in the same way. 

• 

> Apple J'eUy* 

Make the same as quince, with the addition of a stick 
of cinnamon and one lemon to a quart of juice, after the 
sugar is added. It will take longer to cook than quince. 

Quince Jelly. 

Put the cores and parings in the preserving kettle, and 
cover with cold water. Boil gently two hours; then 
sc^ueeze through a thick piece of cloth, and to a pint of 
juice allow a pint of sugar. Boil until it will jelly when 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



l88 THB APPI;BDORB COOK BOOK. 

a little is put in a saucer, then treat as currant jelly. 
Where water is put with fruit you cannot limit the time 
of boiling. 

To Can Berries. 

Put the berries in a nice tin pan, and set over a boiler 
of boiling water, and to a gallon of berries allow one cup 
of boiling water ; heat the berries to the boiling point. 
(Cover them, and stir occasionally, and they will heat much 
sooner.) Heat self-sealing jars by putting them in a pan 
of cold water. Set on the stove, and let the water boil ; 
now fill the jars to tlie top, and put on the covers, and set 
up ; as the glass is expanded by the heat, they cannot be 
set tight now ; but after they become cool, get a man to 
set them up very tight. Set away in a cool, dry place. 
Always use the fruit as soon as opened. If these direc- 
tions are followed, you may put up any kind of fruit, and 
keep it nice for years. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



IHckied Cucumbers* 

Pick the cucumbers before they get very large ; lay them 
in a tub, and cover with a boiling brine of one gill of salt 
to one gallon of water ; let this stand until cold, and then 
turn the brine back into the kettle and boil again, and pour 
over the cucumbers ; do this five times, and then turn off 
and cover with boiling alum water (allow one heaping 
spoonful of alum to one gallon of water) . When cold, turn 
off, and boil again, and turn on the cucumbers a second 
time. When this is cold, turn off, and drain the cucumbers. 
Now put on a few quarts of good cider vinegar in a porce- 
lain kettle, and when it boils, drop a few cucumbers in at 
a time, and let them boil about eight minutes ; then skim 
out and drain. Do this until they are all scalded. Lay 
them in a stone pot and cover with good cider vinegar. 
You may iise bell peppers and spice if you choose. You 
cannot fail to have good pickles if you follow this rule. 

Tatnato FicMes. 

Cut green tomatoes into slices about an inch thick, and 
sprinkle with salt. (Allow half a cup of salt to a peck of 
tomatoes), and let them stand over night. In the morning 

189 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



190 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

turn off all the liquor and scald them in boiling vinegar ; 
then lay them in the stone pots and sprinkle between them 
half a spoonful of white mustard seed and a handful of 
whole cloves. Cover with cold vinegar. 

Tomato ^cklea. No. 2* 

Cut a peck of green tomatoes in slices, and lay in a 
stone jar ; cover with one pint of molasses. Skim when 
it ferments, and your pickles are made. This is ^ood. 

FiccaiiUi. 

Slice one peck of tomatoes and sprinkle with one hand- 
ful of salt ; let them stand over night, and in the morning 
turn off the liquor. Chop the tomatoes, one cabbage-head, 
seven onions, and four green peppers. Mix with this half 
a pint of whole mustard, half a teacup of sugar, half a tea- 
cupful of horseradish, and vinegar enough to cover the 
whole. Stew until soft. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Cut up one gallon of ripe tomatoes, and put on in a 
porcelain kettle and boil. Prepare half a pint of sugar, 
half a pint of strong cider vinegar, or more if not strong ; 
one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
of allspice, one quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per. Boil the tomatoes half an hour and then run them 
through a sieve. Now put them on with the spice, vine- 
gar, and sugar, and boil until there is about two quarts 
and a pint. Cool and bottle. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



SAWGSSi 



I>rawn BuUer. 

Beat one cup of butter and two spoonfuls of flour to a ' 
cream, and pour over this one pint of boiling water. Set 
on the fire and let it come to a boil, but do noi boil. Serve 
immediately. 

Bgg Sauce. 

Chop up two hard boiled eggs, and stir into drawn 
butter. 

Oyster Sauce* 

Set a basin on the fire with half a pint of oysters and 
one pint of boiling water ; let them boil three minutes, 
and then stir in half a cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
with two spoonfuls of flour ; let this come to a boil, and 
serve: 

Celery Sauce* 

Chop fine two heads of celery, and boil one hour ; at 
the end of that time, have about a pint and a half of wa- 
ter with it, and stir in two spoonfuls of flour wet with cold 
water. Boil this ten minutes, and then stir in two spoon- 
fuls of butter. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. 

191 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



19a THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

Caper Sauce. 

Into a pint of drawn butter 8tir three spoonfuls of ca- 
pers. 

MifU Sauce. 

Chop fine half a cupful of mint, and add to it a cup 
of vifaegar and a spoonful of sugar. 

jBread Sauce. 

Half a pint of grated bread crumbs, one pint of milk, 
and one onion. Boil this until the sauce is smooth, then 
take out the onion and stir in two spoonfuls of butter, and 
salt and pepper. Boil up once, and serve. 

CodMed'Apples. 

Pare and core with an apple-corer, cook the same as for 
apple-sauce ; but allow one pint of sugar to one quart of 
water. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Pick and wash the cranberries, and put in the preserv- 
ing kettle with half a pint of water to one quart of ber- 
ries ; now put the sugar on top of the berries, allowing a 
pint of sugar to a quart of berries. Set on the fire and 
stew about half an hour. Stir often to prevent burning. 
They will not need straining, and will preserve their rich 
color cooked in this way. Never cook cranberries before 
putting in the sugar. Less sugar may be used if you do 
not wish them very rich. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



SAUCES. 193 

ApplC'Sauce. 

Pare, quarter, and core nice tart apples. Make a sirup 
of two quarts of water and one cup of sugar ; simmer the 
apples in this until tender, but do not break them ; then 
lay in an earthen dish ; do this until they are all cooked. 
(Do not put many in the sirupi at a time), and then let the 
sirup get cool, and turn on the apples. 

Baked Pears. 

Put the pears in a deep earthen dish or a baking-pan, 
and to a dozen good-sized pears allow half a cup of sugar 
and a pint and a half of water. Bake in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half or three. They will not keep many 
days cooked in this manner, but they are nice. Sweet 
apples are cooked in the same manner. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Wash the prunes in warm water and rub them well be- 
tween the hands. Put them in a kettle that you can cover 
tight, with two quarts of water to one of prunes. Stew 
them gently two hours. These will not keep more than 
two days in warm weather, but cooked in this way they 
do not require any sugar, and are very nice. 

Dried Apple^Sauce., 

Pick and wash the apples carefully, then place in a pre- 
serving kettle. For one pint of dried apple cut the thin 
yellow skin off a lemon, and then pare and cut up the in- 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



I^ THE APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

side. Put the yellow skin (be careful not to get any of tlie 
White) and the inside into the kettle with the apple, and 
three pints of cold water. Cover tight, and simmer three 
hours, then put in one pint of sugar, but do not stir the 
apple, and simmer two hours longer. Never stir dried 
apple-sauce. 



Tea. 

Scald the teapot and put in the tea, allowing one tea 
spoonful to each person ; pour over this half a cup of 
boiling vfdXsx (soft water is the best), and steep in a hot 
place, but not where it will boil, ten minutes ; then turn 
in all the boiling water you wish, and serve. 

Coffee. 

Put one cup of ground coffee and one pint of cold wa- 
ter into the coffee-pot ; set the pot on the fire and boil tep 
minutes after it comes to a boil ; then turn in a pint ol 
boiling water and a piece of salt fish skin about an inch 
'•quare. Boil ten minutes longer, then turn in half a cup 
of cold water and set one side five minutes ; turn into 
another pot, and send to the table. Always serve boiled 
milk with coffee. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



DRINKS. 195 



SheUa. 



Put one quart of cold water and half a cup of shells 
into the pot, and boil gently four or five hours ; add boil- 
ing water occasionally. About twenty minutes before 
serving, add one pint of new milk and boiling water 
enough to make three pints in all ; let this boil a few min- 
utes, strain and serve. 

Chocolate* 

With four spoonfuls of grated chocolate mix one of 
sugar, and wet with one of boiling' water. Rub this 
smooth with the bowl of the spoon, and then stir into one 
pint of boiling water ; let this boil up once, and then add 
one pint of good milk ; let this boil up once, and serve. 

Prepared Cocoa. 

Prepared cocoa is made the same as chocolate, omitting 
■the sugar. All milk may be used if preferred. Never 
boil chocolate or prepared cocoa more than one minute. 
Boiling makes it oily. The quicker it is used after mak- 
ing the better. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



SCrCrS. 



BoUed Eggs* 

Put the eggs in a tin basin and pour boiling water over 
them ; let them stand on a part of the stove where they 
will keep hot, but not boil, for ten minutes, or boil in boil- 
ing water three minutes and a half. The first method is 
the best. This is for rare done eggs. 



Fried Eggs* 

Have boiling lard in the frying-pan; break the eggs 
into a saucer one at a time, and slide them gently into the 
pan ; now, with a large spoon, dip up the boiling lard and 
pour if over the eggs ; do this until they are set, then dish. 

Dropped Eggs* 

Turn a quart of boiling water into a basin with one 
spoonful of salt. Break the eggs one at a time into a 
saucer ; dip one side of the saucer into the water and let 
the eggs slide gently into it. Boil gently until set, which 
will be in about two minutes, and serve on toast. 

196 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



EGGS. 197 

JPoached Eggs. 

Break and beat up two eggs, and stir into them two ta- 
blespoonfuls of milk and half a teaspoonful of salt ; put 
them into a basin, with half a spoonful of butter, and set 
over the fire. Stir until it thickens, and then serve. 



Scrabbled Eggs. 

Beat together four eggs, and then turn into a pan with 
one spoonful of melted butter. Stir quickly over a hot 
fire one minute, and serve. 



Otneleta* ^ 

Beat lightly two eggs, and stir in one spoonful of milk 
and a pinch of salt. Heat tlie omelet pan hot, and then 
put in a little bit of butter, and when melted turn in the 
beaten eggs ; set on the fire, shake the pan, cook until a 
light brown ; then fold the omelet and serve on a hot dish. 
Ham, mushroom, lobster, chicken, and all kinds of ome- 
lets are made by chopping up the meat, and laying it be- 
tween the folds before dishing. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Buttered To€i8t. 

Bbat to a froth one cup of butter and three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; pour over this one pint and a half of dotl* 
ing water ; set this over a kettle of boiling water for tea 
minutes. Cut bread in slices half an inch thick; toast 
brown and dip into tliis. Serve very hot. 

MUk Toast. 

Put one quart of milk in a tin pail or basin and set into a 
kettle of boiling water. When it comes to a boil stir in two 
spoonfuls of flour, mixed with half a cup of milk, one 
spoonful of butter, and salt to taste ; let this boil ten min- 
utes, and then put in the bread, which must be toasted 
brown. Cook five minutes longer and serve. 

French Toast. 

Soak bakers' bread, as for Italian fritters ; toast brown, 

butter, and serve hot. 

198 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1 99 

Sandwiches* 

Take the pieces of ham which are left on the bone after 
all the slices are cut off and chop rather fine. Cut bread 
into thin slices (the milk yeast is the best, for this) and 
butter. Now spread witfi the ham, and lay another but- 
tered slice over this. Trim the edges. This is a very 
nice dish for evening parties or picnics. Fold them in a 
damp towel until they are sent to the table. They may 
be made by ptitting slices of cold ham, tongue, beef, or 
chicken between the slices of buttered bread. 



Oyster Stew, 

Drain all the liquor from the oysters ; put it into a 
porcelain kettle, and let it come to a boil ; then skim oft' 
all the scum. Now turn in the milk, which you have let 
come to a boil in hot water. (Allow one quart of milk 
to one pint of oysters.) Stir in also one spoonful of but- 
ter or more, salt and pepper to taste. Now put in the 
oysters, let them boil up once, and serve with a dish of 
oyster crackers. 

Cfym Starch Cake. 

One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, one and a 
lialf of flour, one half of corn starch, one half of milk, 
four eggs, one tea spoonful of cream of tartar, one half of 
saleratus. Flavor with lemon. Bake in sheets. This 
will make two sheets, and will keep a month. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



300 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Seed Cakes. 

Butter the size of an Qgg^ two cups of sugar, and four 
of flour, half a teaspoonflxl of saleratus, and milk to wet 
it 80 that it will roll easily ; seeds to taste. Roll about 
half an inch thick, and bake ih a quick oven. 

Strawberry Short Cahe. 

One cup of sour milk, butter the size of a walnut, one 
third of a teaspoonful of soda, one fourth of teaspoonful 
of salt ; mix lightly, and bake in a quick oven. While 
baking take one pint and a half of strawberries and mash 
fine. When the cake is baked, cut in two and butter each 
part ; then put on the larger portion a layer of sugar, and 
then strawberries, then a layer of sugar, then lay on the 
other part, and serve immediately. 

Cream Cakes. 

Turn on one cup of butter, one pint of boiling water. 
Stir two good-sized cups of flour into this, then take oflf 
and cool. When cool, stir in five well-beaten eggs. Drop 
on tins and bake. 

Filling. — Make the filling as for cream pies. It will 
take twice the quantity. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 201 



Tapioca Cream. 



Four large spoonfuls of tapioca, just cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Set one quart of milk on the 
fire to warm. Beat the yolks of four eggs and one cup of 
sugar together. Stir into' the warm milk, with a pinch of 
salt, and then stir in the tapioca. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and stir into the custard, then turn into a dish. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Cider Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, three 
eggs, half a pint of cider, one teaspoonful of soda, spice 
to taste. 

Veal JLoaf. 

Take three and a half pounds of veal from the leg and 
chop it very fine ; add six powdered crackers, half a pound 
of salt pork chopped fine, and two eggs well beaten. Sea- 
son with tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful black pep- 
per, half a teaspoonful of allspice, one half of ground 
clove, half a small onion chopped fine ; sage or sweet 
marjoram may be used instead of onion if preferred. 
Knead all this together and make it into a loaf, and 
place it on a tin sheet. Beat one egg^ and pour it over the 
loaf; put bits of butter on the top, and sift over it half a 
pound of crackers. Take half a teacup of hot water, add 
a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, and with this baste 
the loaf three or four times while baking. Bake two 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Z02 TH« APPLBDORB COOK BOOK. 

hours. When cold cut in thin sHces, and serve for either 
breakfast or tea. 

Lemon JPies^ 

Take two lemons and grate away the outside, and not 
use it. Chop the rest very fine ; into two teacups of hot 
water, stir two spoonfuls of corn starch, and boil ; add 
two teacups of sugar ; when cool, add the beaten yolks of 
four eggs and the chopped lemon ; stir well together. Line 
two plates, and pour in the mixture and bake. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a froth with six tablespoons of sugar. 
Spread this over the pies ; set in the oven again and bake 
a light brown. 

Hap Yeast. 

Extra nice. Into one quart of water in which potatoes 
have been boiled put a pinch of hops, and boil a few^» 
minutes ; strain, and then stir in one spoonful of sugar and 
one of salt Let this cool, and when blood warm add 
half a cup of good yeast.* It soon foams up like beer, and 
will keep in all temperatures. Put nothing in the yeast 
but the potato water, hops, sugar, salt, and the rising. 

Baked Buckwheat Cakes. 

Mix and rise the buckwheat over night, as for griddle 
cakes, only a little stiffer; in the morning heat French 
roll pans very hot in the oven ; grease them, turn in the 
batter, and bake. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



MISCELLANEOUS RBCBIPTS* 203 

JFrostingm 

Beat to a froth the white of one egg> Beat into it, very 
gradually, one teacup of powdered sugar, and one scant 
tablespoonful of corn starch, and the juice of one lemon. 
Spread this over the cake, then wet a clean knife in cold 
water and smooth the frosting with it. Set in a warm, 
dry place to harden. 

Frosting, No. 2. 

Take about one sixteenth part of an ounce of gelatine 
and put in a bowl ; just moisten with cold water, and let 
it stand half an hour; then pour on it boiling' water 
enough to dissolve ; now stir in powdered sugar enough 
to thicken. Season with lemon, and spread on the cake. 
This is not so handsome as that made with the white of 
an c^g^ but is made quickly, and will harden in half an 
hour. Frost cake while it is warm, as it dries more quick- 
ly and adheres better. 

Whitpot Pudding. 

One cup of Indian meal, one of molasses, a little 
salt. Scald thoroughly with boiling water. Add a quart 
of milk ; pour into the baking-dish and bake one hour, 
stirring' thoroughly at least twice while it is Baking. 
Let it get about half cool before you serve it. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



204 THE APPLBDORK COOK BOOK. 

Bailed Indian Budding. 

Four cups of Indian meal, one cup of beef suet chopped 
fine, one cup of molasses, a little salt. Pour on boiling 
water enough to make a thick batter. Boil in a cloth, 
tied very loostly, two hours or more. Put in the pot be- 
fore the water quite boils. Serve with butter and sirup. 



Spiced Currants. 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, two of cinnamon. 
Stew half an hour. To eat with roast meat. 



ChUi Sauce, 

Take nine large or eighteen small tomatoes, scald, peel, 
nnd chop, with two peppers and one large onion. Add 
one tablespoonful of salt, two of sugar, one teaspoonful 
each of ginger, cloves, allspice, cinnamon, one nutmeg, 
and two small cups of vinegar. Stew half an hour ; bot- 
tle while hot 

Chraham Bies. hrs. c. tuaxtbb. 

Into a pint of Graham flour, stir one teaspoonful of salt ; 
wet with boiling water enough to make a stiff paste. 
Roll this very thin, and cut into cakes about three inches 
in diameter; put into these a spoonful of apple-sauce and 
fold them. Bake on tin sheets. These can be eaten by 
any dyspeptic. 



Digitized by LjOOglC CS 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ij^ 






ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 

AT 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




THE GIFT OF 

Mr. & Mrs. 
John J. Gilbert Jr. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086709387 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, 

Bt M. PAELOA, ^ 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at WashingtoB. 



Stereotyped at tl^e Boston Stereotype Foundiy, 
No. 19 Spring Lane. ' 



PREFACE. 



In offering this little book to the public, I am aware 
that there are many good cook books in the market 
already. But I trust that this will supply a want 
which has a,lways been felt* by young housekeepers. 
The great trouble with all the cook books which I 
have known (and I am constantly hearing the same 
complaint) is, that they are too expensive, and that 
they use weight instead of measure, and also that they 
take for granted *that the young housekeeper knows 
many things which she really does not. This want I 
have endeavored to supply in this little volume. Hav- 
ing had years of experience as a cook in private fam- 
ilies and hotels, I know the wants 'of the masses, and 
feel competent to supply them. 

I have arranged this book in two parts — one for 
plain, and one for rich cooking. In the First Part will 

3 



A PREFACE. 

be found minute directions for cooking everyj;hing that 
is within the reach of an ordinary family. In Part Sec- 
ond will be found directions for richer cooking. There 
is not one receipt in the book which has not been 
proved to be good. There are vety few which I have 
not used myself, and »f the value of those I am fuUy^ 
assured, having seen nearly all of them tried. The 
rules for jellies, charlotte russe, and creams will be 
foutid to be ttforth twice the price of the book. Many 
of the visitors to th6 Rockingham House, Portsmouth, 
N. tt., Pavilion Hotel, Wolfborough, N. H., McMillan 
House, North Conway, N. H., and the Appledore 
House, isle of Shoals, will find many dishes with 
which they' fexptessed themselves pleased while the 
writer was pastry cook at those houses. 



CONTENTS. 



PART rTR,SX. 



FISH. 

PAOB 

Fish Chowder. 13 

Fish Chowder. 14 

Clam Chowder. ...... 14 

Clam Chowder, No. jj. . . 15 

Boiled Cod. ....'... 15 

Fried Cod 16 

Broiled Cod, or Scrod. . . 16 

Baked Cod i . 16 

Tongues and Sounds. ... 17 

Salt Cod Fish 17 

Broiled Salt Fish 18 

Salt Fish in Cream 19 

Fish Balls 19 

Another Mode 19 

Another Mode 19 

Fish Hash 20 

Boiled Halibut 20 

Fried Halibut 21 

Broiled Halibut 21 

Smoked Halibut. ..... 21 

Boiled Salmon 21 

Fried Salmon.' 22 

Broiled Salmon 22 

Salmon Trout . 22 

Shad and Haddock 22 

Fresh Mackerel Boiled. . . 22 



Broiled Mackerel 22 

Fried Mackergl 23 

Baked Mackerel ^3 

To Broil and Fry Salt Mack- 
erel 23 

Salt Mackerel in Cream. . 23 

To Boil Salt Mackerel. . . 24 

Smelts 24 

Brook Trout 24 

To Boil Lobster 25 

Stewed Lobster 25 

Curried Lobster 25 

Eels Fried 25 

Baked Eels 26 

Remarks in regard to Fish. 26 

SOTJI»S, 

Beef Soup 27 

Mutton Broth 27 

Mutton Broth, No. 2. ... 28 

Dumplings for Soup. ... 28 

Veal Soup 29 

Pea Soup 29 



Boiled Corned Beef, . . 
Boiled Salt Tongue. . 



31 
3a 



6 



CONTENTS. 



Boiled Fresh Tongue. ... 32 

Boiled Flank of Beef. ... 32 

Boiled Ham 33 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. . . 33 

Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. 34 
Boiled Leg or Shoulder of 

Lamb 34 

Boiled Fowl and Pork. . . 34 

Boiled Veal 35 

Boiled Turkey 35 

Roast Beef. 36 

Roast Mutton 37 

Roast Lamb 38 

Roast Veal 38 

Roast Pork 39 

BFoiled Beefsteak 39 

Fried Beefsteak 40 

Beefsteak Smothered in On- 
ions 40 

Italianed Beef. 41 

Stewed Beef. 41 

Fricassee of Beef. 42 

Mutton Chops 42 

Mutton Pie with Tomatoes. 42 

Mutton Pie, Plain. .... 42 

Mutton Fricassee 43 

Haricot of Mutton 43 

Minced Mutton 43 

Lamb Chops 44 

Broiled Veal -. . 44 

Fricassee of Veal 44 

Veal Cutlets 45 

Veal on Toast 45 

Veal Croquettes 45 

Pork Steak 46 

Fried Salt Pork 46 

Broiled Salt Pork 46 

Salt Pork Fried' in Batter. . 46 

Fried Sausages 47 

Broiled Sausages < 47 



Pigs" Feet Soused. 4 • • • 4!) 

Fried Pigs' Feet. ..'_,... 48 

Pigs' Feet Fried in Batter. . 48 

Pigs' Head Cheese 48 

Fried Ham 49 

Broilfed Ham 49 

Ham and Eggs 49 

Fried Liver .' . 50 

Broiled Liver 50 

Boiled Tripe 50 

Broiled Tripe 50 

Fried Tripe 51 

Soused Tripe 51 

Tripe Fried in Batter. ... 51 

Calfs Head and Pluck. . . 51 
Hash made from Calfs Head 

and Pluck 52 

Meat Hash 53 

•VE G-ET-A-BIjES. 

Boiled Potatoes CC 

iu ' -''^ 

Mashed Potatoes 55 

Browned Potatoes 56 

Baked Potatoes 56 

Fried Potatoes. 56 

Fried Boiled Potatoes. ... 57 

Potatoes warmed with Pork. 57 

Potatoes warmed in Gravy. 58 

Fricassee of Potatoes. ... 58 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. . . 58 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. . . 58 

Boiled Onions 58 

Fried Onions 59 

Boiled Squash 59 

Baked Squash 59 

Beets 60 

Pickled Beets 60 

Shelled Beans 60 

Baked Beans 6a 

String Beans 61 



CONTENTS. 



Ste'wed Beans 6i 

Green Peas 6i 

Green Corn 62 

Boiled Turnips 62 

Boiled Parsnips 62 

Fried Parsnips 62 

Boiled Carrots 63 

Boiled Rice 63 

Another Mode 63 

Stewed Tomatoes 64 

Sliced Tomatoes 64 

Baked Tomatoes 64 

Asparagus 65 

Spinage 65 

Cabbage 65 

Cauliflower. ....*... 66 

Dandelions 66 

Beet Greens 66 

Macaroni Boiled 67 

Hop Yeast 09 

Hop Yeast, No. 2. . . . ■ . . 69 

Potato Yeast 70 

Yeast Bread 70 

Yeast Bread, No. 2 71 

Milk Yeast Bread 72 

Graham Bread. ...... 73 

Third Bread 73 

Brown Bread 73 

Brown Bread, No. 2. ... 74 

Brown Bread, No. 3. ... 74 

Raised Biscuit 74 

Raised Biscuit, No. 2. . . . 75 

White Mountain Rolls. . . 76 

Parker House Rolls. ... 76 

Coffee Rolls 76 

Bunns 77 

Soda Biscuit 77 

Cream of Tartar Rolls. . . 77 



Sour Milk Biscuit 78 

Buttermilk Rolls 78 

Graham Rolls 78 

Graham Rolls, No. 2 . . . . 79 

Corn Rolls 79 

Corn Cake 79 

Corn Cake, No. 2 79 

Corn Cake, No. 3 80 

Corn Cake, No. 4 80 

Rye Drop Cakes 80 

Flour Drop Cakes 81 

Flour Drop Cakes, No. 2. . 81 

Graham Drop Cakes. ... 81 

Muffins 81 

Muffins, No. 2 82 

Griddle Cakes 82 

Rice Cakes 82 

Indian Cakes 82 

Corn Dodgers 83 

Bread Cakes 83 

Buckwheat Cakes 83 

Fried Mush. 84 

Brown Bread Brewis. ... 84 

jpXjJ^xx^t c.a.k:e. 

Tea Cake 85 

Berry Cake 85 

Plain Cup Cake 85 

Richer Cup Cake 86 

Railroad Cake» 86 

Cream Cake 86 

Feather Cake 87 

Sponge Cake 87 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. ... 87 

AUie's Cake 88 

Raisin Cake S3 

Apple Cake 88 

Rich Molasses Gingerbread. 89 
Soft Molasses Gingerbread^ 

No. 2 89 



8 



CONTENTS. 



Soil Molasses Gingerbread, 

No. 3 89 

Hard Molasses Gingerbread, go 

Hard Sugar .Gingerbread. . 90 

Ginger Snaps 90 

Molasses Cookies. .... 91 

Vinegar Cookies 91 

Sugar Cookies 91 

Jumbles 92 

Plain Doughnuts 92 

Raised Doughnuts. .... 93 

I»XJIDX)I3Sr C3-S. 

Boiled Rice 94 

Boiled Rice, No. 2 94 

Baked Rice 94 

Baked Rice, No. 2 .95 

Minute Pudding 95 

Corn Starch Pudding. . . 96 

Quaking Pudding 96 

Bride's Puddings 97 

Bread Pudding 97 

Whortleberry Pudding. . . 97 
PlainWhprtleberry Pudding. 98 
Boiled Apple Pudding. . , 98 
Boiled Batter Pudding. . . 99 
Baked Apple Pudding. . . 100 

Pan Dowdy 100 

Apple Dowdy. ...... 100 

Apple Charlotte* loi 



Apple and Sago Pudding. . loj 
Tapioca and Apple Pudding. 10a 

Boiled Tapioca Pudding. . 102 

Baked Tapioca Pudding. . io3 

Custard Pudding. .... 103 

Baked Indian Pudding. . 103 

Cottage Pudding. .... 103 

Sponge Pudding 104 

Italian Fritters 104 

Plain Pie Crust. ..... 105 

Cream Paste 105 

Sliced Apple Pies 106 

Stewed Apple Pies. . . . 106 

Dried AfJple Pies 106 

Berry Pies 107 

Rhubarb Pies 107 

Squash Pies 107 

Cranberry Pies 108 

Gooseberry Pies. . . . : . 108 

Piimpkin Pies 108 

Custard Pies io3 

Mince Pies 109 

Mock Mince Pies. .... 109 

Lemon Pies no 

Cream Pies no 

Filling for Cream Pies. . no 

Washington Pies in 

Remarks iii 



CONTENTS. 



I»A.RT SECOND. 



SOXTFS. 

PAOZ 

Soup Stock 113 

Brown Soup 114 

Brown Soup, No. 3. ... 115 

Brown Soup, No. 3. ... 115 

Vegetable Soup 115 

Julienne Soup n6 

Barley Soup n6 

Sago Soup 116 

Macaroni Soup 116 

Vermicilli Soup 116 

Ox'^ail Soup 116 

Tomato Soup 117 

Giblet Soup 117 

Turkey Soup 117 

Chicken Soup yS 

White Soup . 118 

Beef Soup 118 

Mock Turtle Soup. . . / . 119 

Oyster Soup 120 

FISH. 

Baked Cod or Salmon. . . 121 

Scalloped Fish 121 

FOTJIjXIt-SZ-. 

To clean Poultry .... 122 

Roast Turkey. ...... 122 

Roast Chicken 123 

Roast Goose 124 

Roast Duck 124 

Roast Partridges 124 

Roast Grouse 125 

Roast Pigeons 125 

Small Birds.. 125 



•VE2^TIS01^T. 

FA 

Roast Venison i: 

EJSrTB,E3S^ETS. 

Stewed Beef with Mush- 
rooms. . i: 

Fillet of Beef with Mush- 
rooms i; 

Alamode Beef, i: 

Bouilli Beef. i; 

Bouilli Tongue i: 

Stewed Partridges 1: 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 1; 

White Fricassee of Chicken. 1; 

Chicken Curry i; 

Chicken Pie.« ...... i; 

Salad Dressing i; 

Broiled Chicken 1; 

Chicken Salad i; 

Lobster Salad. ...... i; 

Chicken Patties 1; 

Devilled Turkey 1; 

Potted Pigeon 1; 

Pigeon Pie i; 

Quail Pie i; 

Snipe Pie 1; 

Oyster Pie i; 

Oyster Patties 1; 

Oyster Roast i, 

Scalloped Oysters i, 

Pried Oysters i, 

Broiled Oysters i. 

Veal CroquettSi^s i, 

Rice Croquettes i. 



lO 



CONTKNTS. 



Macaroni in Cream. . . . 135 

Queen Fritters '. 135 

Plain. Fritters . 136 

Apple Fritters 136 

Pancakes 136 

I»TJr)IDI3SrC3-S, 

Baltimore Pudding. . . . 137 

Wedding Pudding. .... 137 

Plum Pudding 138 

Christmas Pudding. . . . 138 

Bread and Butter Pudding^ 138 

Snow Pudding 139 

Sauce for Snow Pudding. . 139 

Cocoanut Pudding. . . . 140 

Cocoanut Pudding, No. 2. 14a 

Ginger Pudding 140 

Beverly Pudding 141 

Lemon Pudding 141 

Lemon Pudding, No. 2. . . 142 
Corn Pudding. . f . . . . 142 
Boiled Cherry Pudding. . 142 
Baked Whortleberry Pud- 
ding 142 

Appledore Pudding 143 

Bird's Nest Pudding. . . . 143 

Rice Meringue 143 

Pavilion Pudding 144 

Frozen Pudding 144 

Fruit^udding 144 

Almond Pud^ng 145 

Sunderland Pudding. . . 145 

Pineapple Pudding. . . . 145 

Omelet Souffle 14^ 

Puff Paste. 147 

Green Apple Pies 148 

Dried App|e Pies 148 

Peach Pies 148 



Plum Pies 149 

Mince Pies 149 

Lemon Pies 149 

Lemon Pies, No. 2. _ . . . 150 

Marlborough Pies 150 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Rich Wine Sauce 151 

Plain Wine Sauce 151 

Lemon Sauce 151 

Vinegar Sauce 152 

DISHES FOR THE SICK. 

Beef Tea 153 

Chicken Broth 153 

Oatmeal Gruel 153 

Indian Meal Gruel. . . -1.154 

Plum Porridge ". . 154 

Corn Tea. . • 154 

Cream Toast 154 

Wine Whey , • • • '55 

Vinegar Whey 155 

Sour Milk Whey 155 

A good Drink for the Lungs. 155 

Another Drink 155 

Another Drink 156 

Lemonade 156 

Another Beef Tea 156 

Sack Posset 156 

IDESSEE.XS. 

Charlotte Russe 157 

Holland Cream." ..... 158 

Lemon Creams 159 

Velvet Cream 159 

Italian Cream 159 

Chocolate Cream 159 

Blanc-mange made with 

Gelatine 160 

Moss Blanc-mange. . . . 160 



CONTENTS. 



TI 



Blanc-mange in Wine 

Sauce i6i 

Wine Jelly i6i 

Lemon Jelly i6i 

Soft Custard 162 

Almond Custard 162 

Snowball Custard 162 

Chocolate Custard. . . . 163 

Coffee Custard 163 

Steamed Custards. .... 163 

Baked Custards 163 

Floating Island 164 

Apple Snow 164 

Tipsy Parson 164 

Apple Float 164 

Trifle 165 

Wine W-hips 165 

Fruit Whips'. 165 

Mock Sherbert 165 

Cream Cakes 165 

Sponge Drops 166 

Kisses ' . . 166 

Cocoanut Drops _ 167 

Cheese Cakes 167 

Tarts 167 

Directions for Freezing. . 168 
Ice Cream made with Cream. 169 

Coffee Ice Cream 169 

Lemon Ice Cream 169 

Chocolate Ice Cream. . . 170 

Lemon Sherbet 170 

Roman Punch. ..... 170 

Remarks . 171 

One, Two, Three, Four 

Cake 171 

Rich Cup Cake 172 

Concord Cake .:.... 172 

Lemon Cake 172 

Harrison Cake 172 



Bangor Cake 173 

BartlettCake 173 

Down East Cake 173 

New York Cup Cake. . . . 173 

Champagne Cakes. . . . 174 

Queen Cake 174 

Loaf Cake 174 

Raisin Cake 174 

Tumbler Cake i';4 

Marble C^ke 175 

Composition Cake. . . . 175 

Common Fruit Cake. . . . 175 

Delicate Cake 176 

Ice Cream Cake 176 

Crullers 176 

Fourth of July Cake. . . . 176 

Ginger Pound Cake. . . . 177 

Pound Cake 177 

Pound Cake, No. 2. . . . 177 

Wedding Cake 177 

Gold Cake. . 178 

Golden Cake, No. 2. . . . 178 

Silver Cake 178 

Silver Cake, No. 2. ... 178 

Sponge Cake 179 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. . . . 179 

Berwick Sponge Cake. . . 179 

Cocoanut Cake. 179 

Orange Cake 180 

Filling for Orange Cake. . 180 

Chocolate Cake 180 

Chocolate Icing 180 

White Mountain Cake. . . 181 

Vanilla Jumbles 181 

Preserved Peaches 182 

Preserved Pears 183 

Crab Apple Preserves. . . 183 

Preserved Pineapple. • . . 184 



12 



CONTENTS. 



Preserved Citron Melon. . 184 

Preserved Apples 184 

Preserved Plums. . , . . 184 

Preserved Cherries. . . . 185 

Preserved Quinces. . . . 185 

Raspberry Jam. 185 

Barberries Preserved with 

Pears 185 

Barberries Preserved in 

Molasses 186 

Grape Marmalade 186 

Currant Jelly. 186 

Currant Shrub. ,'.... 187 

Apple Jelly 187 

Quince Jelly 187 

To Can Berries 188 

Pickled-Cucumbers. . . . 189 

Tomato Pickles 1S9 

Tomato Pickles, No. 2; . . 190 

Piccalilli 190 

Tomato Catsup. .... . 190 

SiA-TTCBS. 

Drawn Butter 191 

&gg Sauce 191 

Oyster Sauce 191 . 

Celery Sauce 191 

Caper Sauce 192 

Mint Sauce 192 

Bread Sauce 192 

Coddled-Apples 192 

Cranberry Sauce 192 

Apple-Sauce. ...... 193 

Baked Pears 193 

'Stewed Prunes 193 

Dried Apple-Sauce. . . . 193 



Tea f . 194 

Coffee 194 

Shells 195 

Chocolate igS 

Prepared Cocoa 195 

DBca-o-s. 

Boiled Eggs 196 

Fried Eggs 196 

Dropped Eggs 196 

Poached Eggs 197 

Scrabbled Eggs 197 

Omelets 197 

MISCELIiANEOITS. 

Buttered Toast. ...... 198 

Milk Toast 198 

French Toast 198 

Sandwiches 199 

Oyster Stew . 199 

Corn Starch Cake 199 

Seed Cakes 200 

Strawberry Short Cake. . 200 

Cream Cakes 200 

Tapioca Cream 201 

Cider Cake 201 

Veal Loaf. 201 

Lemon Pies 202 

Hop Yeast 202 

Baked Buckwheat Cakes. . 202 

Frosting 203 

Frosting, No. 2 203 

Whitpot Pudding 203 

Boiled Indian Pudding. . . 204 

Spiced Currants 204 

Chili Sauce 204 

Graham Pies.' 20i| 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

PART FIRST. 



Chowder. 

Take either a cod or haddock ; ^kin it,. loosen the skin 
about the head, and draw it down towards the tail, when 
it will peel off easily. Then run your knife down the 
back close to the bone, which you take out. Cut yt)ur fish 
in small pieces, and wash in cold water. Put the head on 
to boil in about two quarts of water, and boil twenty min- 
utes. For a fish weighing six pounds, pare and slice tkin 
five good-sized potatoes, and one onion. Place a layer of 
potatoes and onion in the pot, then a layer of fish, dredge 
in a little salt, pepper, and flour. Keep putting in alter- 
nate l^ers of potatoes and fish until all is used. Use 
about one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teacup of fiourj in all. 

Have ready half a pound of salt pork fried brown. Pour 
this over the mixture ; add about two quarts of cold water,, 
then strain on the water in which the head has been boiled. 
If this is not water enough to cover, add more cold. Covel 

13 



.^4 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

tight, and boil gently thirty minutes. If not seasoned 
enoughj add' what you please. When it has boiled twenty 
minutes, put in six crackers which have been soaked three 
minutes in cold water. If you wish to add milk and but- 
ter, you can do so about five minutes before'taking it up ; 
but for my taste, it is much nicer and more natural without 
either. 

I^sh Cruywder. mrb. t. lbiohton. 

Four pounds of fish, half cod and half haddock, if you 
can get the two kinds, two onions, six potatoes, eight white 
browns, one quarter of a pounej of salt pork, salt, pepper. 
Prepare the chowder as directed in the preceding rule ; 
split the crackers and lay on the top, pour over the whole 
hot water enough to cover, and boil fifteen minutes ; then 
wet two tablespoonfuls of flour with one third of a cup of 
cream. Stir this into the boiling chowder, let it boil up 
once, and serve. When you cannot get the white browns, 
pilot bread will answer. When a very strong flator of 
onion is desired, use four onions. 

Clam, Chowder. 

When intending to have clams in any form, gef them 
in the shell if possible, the day before. PJace them in a 
tub, and cover with clean water, and throw into this about 
a quart of Indian meal. This fattens them. When ready 
to use the clams, wash tiiem thoroughly, then cover them 
with boiling' water, and let them stand ten minutes, when 
they will open easily. Take them from the shell, cut oiflf 



FISH. 15 

the black heads, and put the bodies of the clams in a clean 
dish. Strain the water in which they were scalded into 
the kettle in v/hich you intend to cook your chowder. To 
one peck of clams allow three quarts of water. Let the 
water come to a boil, then thicken with half a cup flour 
which has been mixed with cold water, season with pep- 
per and salt. Add the clams and a tablespoonful of butter ; 
let it boil ten minutes. A few minutes before dishing, 
drop in three or four broken crackers. 

Clam Chowder, JVo. 2. 

For one peck of clams take six good-sized potatoes, 
pared and sliced thin, half an onion cut into pieces an 
inch square. Fry quarter of a pound of pork to a nice 
brown ; place the pork and gravy, the potatoes and on- 
ions, in your kettle. Shake over the whole one table- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of pepper, and half a cup 
of flour. Strain over this four quarts of the water with 
which you scalded the clams. Place on the fire, and boil 
fifteen minutes, then add the clams and four split crackers ; 
boil ten minutes longer, and serve. 

Boiled Cod. 

Take the head and shoulders of a good-sized cod. 
Scrape and wash clean ; rub a handful of salt into it ; 
flour a cloth and pin the fish in it. Put it into boiling 
water, and boil half an hour. Takft the fish carefully from 
the cloth, and serve with egg sauce. Potato is the only 
vegetable that is nice with boiled cod. 



l6 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Fried Cod. 

Cut the fish into squares, wash and wipe dry. Take half 
a Cup of flour, half a cup of sifted Indian meal, and a table- 
spoonful of salt Mix all these thoroughly. Dip the fish 
into the mixture. Have ready a frying-pan with boiling 
fat, half lard and half pork fat ; -drop in your fish. Fry 
a dark-brown on one side, then turn and fry the same on 
the other si'de, but be very careful not to let the fish or fat 
burn. Have your dish hot, and lay your fish on it. Gar- 
nish the sides with the fried pork. 



Sroned Cod, or Scrod. 

• Split, wash, and wipe dry a small cod. Rub the grid- 
iron with a piece of fat pork, and lay the fish upon it, be- 
ing careful to have the inside downward. If the fish is 
Very thick, cook thirty minutes ; but for an ordinary one, 
twentj^^minutes will be sufficient. Have the dish, in which 
you intend serving it, warm ; place it upon the fish, and 
turn the dish and gridiron over simultaneously. If the 
fish sticks to the gridiron, loosen it gently with a knife. 
Have some butter warm, but not melted, with which to 
season it. Shake on a little pepper and salt and send to 
the table. 

Baked Cod. 

. Scrape and wash ilean a cod weighing four or five 
pounds. Rub into it a heaping spoonful of salt. Make 
a dressing of three pounded crackers, a little chopped salt 



FISH. 17 

pori, about one t'easpoonful of parsley, a little salt and 
pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Stuff the 
belly with this, and fasten together with ^ skewer. Lay 
thin slices of pork on the fish, which should be placed on 
a tin sheet that will fit loosely into the baking-pan ; dredge 
with flour. Pour into the pan about half a pint of cold 
water. Baste the fish often while cooking with the water 
which is in the pan. If the water cooks away, add more, 
but do not have too much to begin with, or the fish will 
be boiled instead of being baked. Bake one hour. Wlien 
the fish is cooked, turn the gravy into a bowl, then lift out 
the fish upon the tin sheet (from which you can easily 
slide it into the dish upon which you serve it) ; now turn 
your gravy into your baking^pan again, and place it on the 
fire ; when it comes to a boil, thicken with a tablespoonful 
of -flour, season with pepper and salt. 

N. B. ■ Always use a tin sheet in the baking-pan when 
cooking fish, as you then can preserve the shape. 

Tongues and Sounds. 

Soak the tongues and sounds in cold water over night. 
Put them in cold water and. place on the fire. Let them 
boil thirty minutes, and serve with drawn butter. 

Salt Cod Fish. 

Soak a whole fish in cold water over night ; in the morn- 
ing wash clean, and cut off the tail and fins. If you have 
not a fish kettle, place it in a large milk pan, which nearly 
fill with water, cover, and set over a kettle of warm water. 
2 



i8 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 



Let it cook in this way five or six hours. Serve with egg 
sauce and pork scraps. Potatoes, beets, and carrots are 
the vegetables to be served with salt fish. There are but 
few cooks who know how, or, if they do know,^ho take 
the pains, to get up a nice salt fish dinner ; but those fami- 
lies who are so fortunate as to have this dish weU served, 
consider it equal to a turkey dinner ; therefore I shall give 
minute directions for the preparation of it. One of the 
most essential things is to have everything hot. Have all 
your dishes warm, and dish' quickly, that all may go to the 
table at once. Serve the fish whole ; garnish the dish 
with a few pieces of beet and carrot. Cut your pork, and 
fry anice brown. Boil an egg ten minutes, dip it into cold 
water, and peel off the shell. Cut it up with a silver spoon, 
as a knife blackens it, and put it into the dish in which you 
intend serving the sauce. To a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, add a tablespoonful of flour. Blend these to- 
gether well, and when the dinner is ready to serve, pour 
on a . little less than half a pint of boiling water. Let 
this come to a boil, and pour k upon the egg. Never let 
drawn butter boil, as it becomes oily and unpalatable. 
The fish which is left from the dinner will be very nice 
for hash and fish balls. 

Broiled Salt Fish. 

Cut a square the size you desire, from the thickest part 
of the fish. Take off the skin, and wash clean ; broil over 
clear coals ten minutes, then dip in boiling water, butter, 
and serve. This is a nice relish, for breakfast or tea, and 
with boiled potatoes makes an excellent dinner. 



FISH. 19 

Salt Fish in Cream, 

Tear a piece of fish into small strips, wash clean, and 
place it ifflk a basin with about a q^rt of water ; let it 
simmer half an hour. Then pour off the water, and add 
one pint of new milk. When this comes to a boil, thicken 
witli one spoonful of flour ; let it boil five minutes, then 
add butter the size of a walnut, and a. little pepper, and 
serve. 

Fish'Balls. 

Take the fish left from the dinner, put it in your chop- 
ping-tray, being careful that there. are no bones in it ; chop 
fine. Pare and boil potatoes enough to have twice the quan- 
tity of potatoes that you have offish. When cooked, turn 
them into the tray with the fish ; mash fine, and make into 
balls about the size of an egg. Flour the outside lightly ; 
have the fat boiling hot, and fry a light brown. The fat 
should be half lard and half salt pork. Have the shces 
of pork a nice brown, and serve with the-fish balls. 

Another Mode. 

Prepare as above ; and to a quaij^ty that will make a 
dozen balls add an egg, butter half the size of an egg, 
salt and pepper. Shape and fry as before directed. 

Another Mode. 

Chop fine one good-sized beet, and mix well with one 
pint bowlful of fish and two of potato. Add to this the 



20 THE APPLED0R5 COOK BOOK. 

pork scraps left, from dinner, or, if none have been left, fry 
a few slices of salt pork, and mix the fat with the fish and 
potato. Shape and fry as directed above. 

Fish Sash. 

Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; chop fine cold pota- 
toes, and mix with the fish. Fry brown six good slices 
of salt pork ; take out the pork and turn the hash into the 
frying-pan ; add half a cup of boiling water ; let this heat 
slowly, stirring often ; then spread smoothly, and brown, 
being careful not to let it burn. When brown, fold it as 
you would an omelet, di^, and garnish the dish with the 
slices of pork. Where pork is objected to, butter can be 
used instead. 

Salt fish, when cooked and chopped, will keep for a 
week, if nothing else is mixed with it. When intending 
to have hash or fish balls for breakfast, the fish should be 
chopped the night before, and the potatoes should be pared 
and put in cold water. Put the potatoes on the fire as 
soon as it begins to bum ; they will then be ready for use 
when you are ready for them. 



Boiled Halibut. 

Pour into a pan about half an inch deep of boiling wa- 
ter ; into this lay the side of the halibut on which is the 
black skin; let this stand a few minutes; then scrape 
with a knife, when the blatk will be found to peel off 



FISH. 21 

readily. Wash clean in cold water, then pin it in your fish- 
cloth, and drop it into boiling water. For a piece weigh- 
ing four pounds allow twenty-five minutes to boil. Serve 
with drawn butter. 

• Fried HaMbut. 

Take a slice of halibut, sprinkle with salt, and dredge 
with flour. Fry four slices of salt pork, add to the pork 
fat one spoonful of lard. When boiling hot pu* in the 
halibut. Fry a light brown on one side, then turn and fry 
the same on the other. Serve the pOrk with it. 

Broiled Balibut. 

Grease the gridiron with a little butter, place the hali- 
but upon it, sprinkle a little salt over it, and place over 
clear Coals. Cook one side- ten minutes, then turn and 
, cook upon the other side ten more. Have the dish warm ; 
put the fish upon it, season with pepper and butter, and 
send to the table. 

SmoTced Malibut. 

Broiled the same as the fresh, omitting the pepper and 
salt. Smoked salmon cooked in the same way. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Salmon is boiled the same as balibut ; served with egg 
sauce. 



«2 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Fried Salmon. 

The same as halibut. 

Broiled Salmon. 

The same as halibut. 



Salmon Trout. 

P 
When large enough, split down the back, clean, and 

broil. Season with butter and salt. When small, open 

far enough to take out the insides ; wash clean, and wipe 

dry^ Fry the same as cod fish. 



Shad and HaddocTe. 

Shad and. haddock can be cooked the same as cod. 

Fresh Mackerel PoUed. 

If^ not cleaned, open them at the gills, take out the in- 
sides, wash clean, and pin in a fish-cloth, (Do not use 
the" f k)th that you use to boil mackerel in for any other 
fish.) Drop into boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes. 
Serve with drawn butter. 



Broiled Mackerel. 

* 

Split down the back and clean. Be careful to scrape 

all the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and lay 



FISH. 23 

on the gridiron ; broil on one side a nice brown, then turn 
and brown the other side ; it will not take so long to brown 
the side on which the slcin is. (All fish should have the 
side on which the skin is, turned to the fire last, as the 
skin burns easily, and coals are not so hot after you have 
used them ten minutes.) Season with butter, pepper, and 
salt. 

Fried Mackerel, 

Fry brown six good-sized slices of pork. Prepare youi 
mackerel as for broiling. Take out your pork, sprinkle a 
little salt over the mackerel, then fry a nice brown. Serve 
the fried pork with it 

Baked Mackerel. 

Prepare 4s for boiling. Make a drqssing as for baked 
cod. Stuff with this, dredge with salt and flour. Bake 
thirty minutes, basting often with water, butter, and flour. 
Make a g^avy with the water in the pan in which the fish 
is baked. Always make the gravy quite salt The best 
way to cook mackerel is to 6roi7 it. 

To Broil and Fry Salt Mackerel- 

Soak over night, and cook the same as fresh. 

Salt Mackerel in Cream. 

Freshen as for broiled mackerel, then lay mto a baking- 
pan, and to one mackerel add half a pint of new mill|, 



24 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

put into the oven, and bake twenty-five minutes. About 
five minutes before it is dished, add a small piece of but- 
ter. This is a nice dish for breakfast and dinner. 



To Boil Salt Mackerel. 

m 

Wash the mackerel, and soak over night in clear cold 
water. Put them on to boil in cold water, and boil gently 
thirty minutes. Serve with drawn butter. 



Smelts. 

The only true way to cook smelts is to fiy them, al- 
though they are sometimes baked. Open them at the 
gills. Draw each smelt separately between your finger 
and thumb, beginning at the tail ; this>*will press the in- 
sides out. (Some persons never take out the ijnsides, but 
it should be done as much as in any other fish.) Wash 
them clean, and let them drain in a cullender ; then salt 
and roll in a mixture half fiour and half Indian meal. 
Have about two inches deep of boiling fat in the frying- 
pan (drippings if you have them ; if not, lard) ; into this 
drop the smelts, and fry brown. Do not put so many in 
that they will be crowded ; if you do, they will not be crisp 
and brown. 

Brook Trout. 

Brook trout are cooked the same as smelts : or you can 
cook theni as the angler does.j «They must be split near« 
ly to the tail to clean. Wash and drain. For a dozen 



lilSH. 25 

good-sized trout, fry six slices of salt pork; when brown, 
take out the pork, and put in the trout. Fry a nice brown 
on all sides. Serve the pork with them. 

To Boil Lobster, 

There are comparatively few who ever have anything 
to do with a lobster until after it has been boiled ; but for 
the benefit of the few I insert this. Be sure that the lob- 
ster is living ; if not, it is not fit for use. Have a kettle of 
boiling water ; into this drop the lobster, and boil until 
the shell turns red. This takes about an hour. Take up, 
and when cold it is fit to eat. 

Stewed Lobster. 

Take out all the meat from the shell. Chop it, b^it not 
fine. Put into a basin with a little salt, pepper, butter, 
and half a cup of water to a small lobster. Stew about 
ten minutes. 

Curried Lobster. 

Prepare the lobster as for stew ; when it comes to a bcil, 
add a mixture of a heaping teaspoonful of flour, and 
half a teaspoonful of Indian curry mixed witb cold water. 
Let this boil eight minutes, then serve. 

EtHs Fried. 
Skin them ; then turn on boiling water, and let thern 



a6 THE APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 

Baited Eels. 

Prepare as for frying ; then put into a baking-pan, with 
a little water, flour, pepper, and salt. Bake twenty min- 
utes. Make a gravy of the liquor in which they were 
baked, adding a little butter. 

Bemarka in regard to Fiah. 

Fish should never stand in water, as it spoils the flavor. 
Fish should never be fried in butter. It should always be 
used while fresh. Plain boiled or mashed potatoes should 
always be served with it. Squash and green peas go very 
well with fish also. Always save all that remains after a 
meal, and warm up, to help out another dish. The re- 
mains of boiled fresh fish can be warmed up in a little 
butter^ pepper, salt, and water, as you would stew lobster. 
Cold fried and broiled fish can be placed in a tin pan, and 
set into the oven ten minutes, when it will be found to be 
hot enough. Fish balls can be steamed for ten or fifteen 
minutes, and then set into the oven to get crisp. If you 
have a large piece of boiled fish, which you wish to serve 
whole, place it on a plate, and set into the steamer, and 
steam twenty minutes. If you have drawn butter to warm 
up, do not stft it on the fire, but put it into a bowl, and set 
the bowl into hot water. Cook butter as little as possible, 
as by cooking it becomes oily. When you do use it, al- 
waj's add it three or five minutes before taking the dish 
from the fire. 



i©lfFS. 

Beef Soup. 

Every family should have a soup once a week at least. 
Always save the bones of roast meats for a soup. Take 
the bones of a roast of beef, break them up so that they 
will go into a soup-pot. Lay them 'in tjie pot, dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour. Cut into this one small 
onion; add three quarts of cold water. Set on the fire, 
and when it comes to a boil, skim it. Let it boil gently 
three hours, then add eight sliced potatoes, and boil 
twenty minutes. Have ready dumplings ; put them in 
and cover tight, and biil ten minutes longer, then dish. 
First take out the dumplings and place in a small platter, 
then turn the soup into a tureen, "being careful to take 
out the bones, and serve. 

% 
Mutton Broth. 

Take a shoulder or neck of mutton, cut into small 
pieces, wash and put into the soup-pot. When it comes 
to a boil, skim it carefully; then boil gently two hours. 
To four pounds of meat add four quarts of water, and 
half a cup of rice. Do not put in the rire until the meat 

27 



28 THE APPLEDOEE' COOK. BOOK. 

has boiled two hours, then add rice, and season with 
pepper, salt, and half an onion ; boil two hours longer, 
and serve. I will give another method, which is better if 
the soup is the only dish for dinner. 



Mutton Broth, Do. 2. 

Prepare the meat as for Mo. i, and to the same quan- 
tity of meat and water add half an onion, one small white 
turnip ; boil two hours, then add one third of a cup of 
rice ; boil one hour and a half longer, then add six sliced 
potatoes. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Boil twen- 
ty minutes, then add the dumplings f cover tight and boil 
ten minutes, then dish and serve as you wou\d beef soup. 
When preparing the meat for all these kinds of soups, 
cut off all the fat, and fry out for dripping; thus your 
soup will not be greasy, and you will have the fat free 
from the taste of vegetables. 

f 

Dumplings fov Soup. 

Take one pijjt of flour (measured before it is sifted), 
turn into a sieve, and measure into it one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one half of saleratus, one half of salt, and 
one of sugar. Run this through the sieve, and wet with 
milk ; have the dough stiff enough to roll. Cut into very 
small cakes, and cook as directed. Be sure mat your 
soup boils fast enough to get up a good steam, and keep 
boiling while the dumplings are in the pot ; if you do 
not, they will be heavy. Some persons like them for a 



SOUPS. 29 

dessert When used for that purpose, they should be 
eaten with sirup. 

Veal Soup. 

Take foul' pounds of the neck of veal, cut up small and 
wash clean ; put into the soup-pot and cover with six 
quarts of water ; let this come to a boil, then skim off all 
the. scum ; boil two hours, add half a cup of rice, and boil 
one hour longer ; then add one third of a cup of flour 
mixed with water, salt, and pepper. Boil gently one and 
a half hours, stirring often to prevent burning ; then add a 
tablespoonful of butter, and dumplings made as directed 
for beef and muttprusoup. Potatoes and onions can be 
used as for mutton broth No. 2, and some use a little pork 
to flavor it. 

Fea Soup. 

Pick the peas over, that there may be no blemished 
ones among them. Wash and soak over night. In the 
morning turn off the water and put them in the soup-pot. 
For one quart of peas allow eight quarts of cold water 
and one pound of lean salt pork, a small piece of celery, 
. a little pepper, and half an onion ; boil gently eight 
hours, being very careful that it does not burn. Have a 
large wooden spoon to stir it with. When done, it should 
be thin enough to pour. In boiling, it may become too 
thick ; if so, add boiling water. When cooked, it is 
smooth and rather mealy. If not cooked enough, after 
standing a few minutes the thick part will settle, and the 
top look watery. Have ready six slices of bread toasted 



30 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

brown, and cut into pieces an inch square ; throw about 
a dozen of these pieces into a turfeen, and the remainder 
send to the table dry. Strain the soup through a sieve, 
and serve. If the pork' does not salt it enough, use salt. 
This soup is even better warmed over than at first. • Some 
persons use soup stock and butter, but it seems to me that 
it is rich enough made in this way, and much healthier. 
The bones left from Toast lamb, mutton, and veal can 
all be used to make soups the same a^ those of roast beef. 



Boiled Corned Beef. 

Wash a piece of beef weighing ten pounds ; put it into 
two gallons of cold water ; when it comes to a boil, 
skim carefully and boil very slowly six hours. Some 
boil alrkinds of vegetables in the same pot; -but there is 
this objection to this method : you lose the distinctive 
flavor of each vegetable, and the beef is flavored with the 
vegetables, which is very unpleasant when it is cold. 
The vegetables to serve with corned beef are potatoes, 
cabbage, beets, turnips, parsnips, carrots. When the beef 
is simply for one hot dinner, the part of the beef is not of 
so much consequence ; but when it is to be pressed, there 
should be care taken in the selection of the piece to boil.^ 
The brisket, the flank, and the thin part of the ribs are 
the best parts to press. Boil as before directed, and take 
out the bones, lay the meat on a large platter, and place 
a tin sheet upon it ; on the sheet place a weight, and set 
in a cool place. WheA ready to use itif trim the edges, 
and use the trimmings for meat hash. This makes a 
nice Sinner with baked potatoes, squash, turnip, and 
macaroni. 

3» 



32 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Boiled Salt Tongue. 

Soak the .tongue over night ; in the morning pt t on to 
boil in six quarts of cold water, and boil slowly six hours 
if the tongue is large ; if not, five will answer. , Take it 
from the boiling water and throw it into cold water, and 
peel the skin off. Set away to cool. For dinner, use the 
same vegetables as for cold corned beef. The roots will 
make a nice hash. ^ 

Boiled Fresh Tongue. 

Wash and put into four quarts of boiling watan^with a 
largo handful of salt. Boil slowly six hours, if large. 
When done, throw into cold water, and skin the same as 
the salt tongue. The water in which all meats are boiled 
should be saved until cold, and the fat should be taken off 
and clarified. The liquor should never stand in iron 
kettles, as it rusts them. 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

This is a part of the beef that many persons think 
almost useless ; but by being properly prepared it make's 
an elegant dish. Wash the flank, and make a dressing as 
for turkey, and spread over it, first having salted and 
peppered it well*, then roll up and tie. Wind the twine 
round it several times, to keep it in place ; then sew in a 
cloth kept for that purpose. Put a small plate in the pot, 
and put in the meat ; then pour on about six quarts of 
boiling water, and boil gently six hours. When done, 



MEATS. 33 

remove the cloth, but not the twine until stone cold ; then 
cut into thin slices, and you will have alternate layers of 
meat and dressing. This is a very nice dish for breakfast 
or tea. ^ 

Boiled Bam. 

Have a coarse hair brush for clfaning harns, as it is 
impossible to get them clean by simply washing them. 
If the ham will not fit in the pot, cut off the knuckles, 
which will cook in two hours. Cover with cold water, 
ai d boil. A ham weighing twelve pounds will require 
five hours. When cooked, take up and^put into a baking- 
pan, to skin. Have a basin of cold water, into which dip 
the hands ; then take the skin between the fingers, and 
peel as you would an orange. Roll a cracker and sift it 
over the ham, then set in the oven thirty minutes. Save 
the liquor in which it was boiled, and skim the fat for 
soap grease. 

Boiled Lieg of Mutton. 

Take a leg weighing eight pounds, and put into six. 
quarts of boiling water ; throw into this half a cup of 
rice. In a few minutes a scum will rise, which must be 
skimmed off carefully. Boil one hour and a quarter ; 
allow five minutes more for every pound over eight. 
This time will allow the blood to run, which should 
always be the case with mutton. Serve with caper 
sauce. The rice gives it a white look. Serve With this 
plain boiled potatoes, turnips, and onions. Save the 
liquor in which the meat was boiled, for soup. 
3 



34 THE APPLEDOHE COOK BOOK. 

Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. 

Cooked and served the same as the leg. 

Boiled Leg or Shoulder of Lamb, 

For a leg or shofflder weighing six pounds, allow an 
hour and twenly minutes, and for every pound over that 
allow ten minutes. Serve with drawn butter or mint 
sauce. Serve with it green peas, potatoes, white tui-nips. 
If asparagus or spinage is in season, substitute for tut- 
nips. Save the liquor for^ soup. Lamb, however, is 
always nicer roasted. 

Boiled Fowl and Pork. 

Singe, draw out the inwards, being careful to take out 
the lights and crop. Cut open the gizzard and ^lean. 
Wash the fowls and put them, with the hearts, livers, and 
gizzards, into boiling water, in which about one pound 
of pork has been boiling three hours. If they are young 
and tender, one hour and a quarter will cook one weigh- 
ing three pounds. If old and tough, they sometimes take 
three hours. Truss the same as turkey. Serve with 
drawn tutter. Dish the pork with the fowls. A little 
rice boiled in the water gives them a white appearance. 
Serve with them mashed turnip, mashed potatoes, boiled 
parsnips or green peas, corn or spinage when in season 
Save the liquor for soup. 



MEATS. 35 

Boiled Veal, 

Take out the bone from a shoulder of veal, and fill the 
cavity with a dressing made as for poultry ; then fasten 
together with a skewer; wind twine around it, and tie 
tight. Put this into a kettle with about a pound of lean 
salt pork, and cover with boiling water. Boil slowly 
four hours, if it weighs ten pounds. Serve with celery 
sauce, or with a gravy made with one pint of the liquor 
in which it has been boiled, thickening with" one heaping 
spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a little butter. Serve 
with boiled potatoes, macaroni and cheese, and horse- 
radish. Save the liquor in which it has been boiled, to 
use next day in making a pie with what remains from the 
dinner. 

Boiled Turlcey. 

Singe and wash the turkey, then rub into it a handful 
of salt ; stuff it with a dressing made by directions given 
under " Dressing for Poultry." Sew up and put into boil- 
ing water, enough to cover it. For one weighing ten 
pounds allow two hours boiling, and fifteen minutes for 
every added pound. Serve with oyster or celery sauce, 
mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, boiled parsnips, plain 
boiled macaroni. Save the liquor for a soup. Some- 
times a turkey will be very old and tough, in which case 
It will require a longer time to boil ; but a little practice 
and observation will help every housekeeper .to under 
stand when to allow more or less time for boiling. Truss 
the same as for roasting. 



36 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Soast Beef. 

Meats roasted in a tin kitchen require a longer time to 
cook th?n in an oven, but they are very much nicer 
cooked in the forrher. Wring a clean towel out of cold 
water, and wipe the meat with it (if possible, never 
wash beef, as by this means a.great deal of juice is lost) ; 
then rub into it a handful of salt, anddredge with flour. 
If cooked in a tin oven, run the spit through it. See that 
the spit is as near through the middle as possible ; if not, 
it will be difficult to turn it. Dredge flour into the kitch- 
en, and when brown put in a pint of hot water. Cook a 
piece of beef weighing eight pounds an hour and twenty 
minutes if you wish it rare ; if not, cook twenty minutes 
longer. Baste often with, pepper, salt, flour, and the 
water in the bottom of the kitchen, an^turn often. Ten 
minutes before dishing the dinner, turn the gravy into a 
basin, and skim off" all the fat; let it come to a boil, and 
thicken with one large table-spoonful of flour mixed with 
cold water ; season with salt and pepper. Serve with 
mashed potatoes, squash, boiled rice, and pickled beets. 
When baked in the oven, one hour will be sufficient for a 
piece weighing eight pounds. Place a grate ip the bak- 
ing-pan, and upon the grate lay the meat. Into the pan 
pour a pint of warm water; watch carefully that the 
water does not boil away and the gravy become burned. 
Add but little water at a time, for if there is too much 
the meat will be steamed instead of roasted, and also the 
gravy will not become brown. Baste as w hen roasted in 
a. tin oven. Make the gravy as before directed. 



MEATS. 37 

Moast Mutton. 

^Take out the first joint from a leg of mutton ; ask tfia 
butcher to do it when you order it. Wash, ana rub into it 
a handful of salt. Cut in around the bone, so as to make 
the cavities as large as possible, and fill with a dressing 
made in the following manner: Soak in cold water 
about two quarts of pieces of stale bread. When soft, 
drain in a cullender ; then mix with this half an onion, 
which has been chopped very fine, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, one &^%i butter the 
size of an egg, and one tablespoonful of summer savory. 
Fasten together with a skewer, then dredge with salt and 
flour, and roast the same as bgef. For a piece weighing 
ten pounds allow one hour and a half, and ten minutes 
for every pound over or under that. Skim all the fat 
from the g^avy ; for half a pint allow one tablespoonful 
of flour to thicken with ; season with pepper and salt. 
Put one tablespoonful of currant jelly into the gravy 
tureen, and strain the gravy upon it. .Serve with mashed 
potatoes, boiled onions, boiled rice or macaroni, mashed 
turnip, currant jelly. 

When the tin kitchen is used it will require half an 
hour longer to roast. The shoulder and saddle are 
cooked in the same way. Always make a dressing for 
mutton ; it spends much better, and the trouble is not 
much. Omit the egg if you please. When you do not 
stuff it, cook it in twenty minutes l^s time. 



38 THE APPLEDOEE COOK BOOK. 

IRoast Lamb. 

"Take a leg of lamb weighing six pounds, wash and 

-SI. 

dredge with salt and flour. Cook one hour if in an oven, 
one and a quarter if in a tin kitchen. Baste often. Make 
the gravy the same as for mutton, omitting the je;lly. 
Serve with mashed potatoes, green peas, fried parsnips, 
or green corn, string beans, summer squash, mint sauce. 
NeVer cffnit the gravy because you have mint sauce. All 
other parts of the latnb can be roasted in the same way. 

Moast Veal. 

The loin, breast, and fiUjet are the best parts for roast- 
ing ; the neck also is good to roast. Wash the veal, and 
rub into it a good handful of salt. Make a dressing in 
the following manner, and stuff it: Soak about two 
quarts of stale bread in cold water,, chop fine half a 
pound of clear fat pork. Mix this with the bread and 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, one tablespoonful 
of sweet taarjoram, one of sage, one egg or two rolled 
crackers. Take out all the bones possible, and cut slits 
to make cavities for the dressing ; -then stuff and skewer 
securely ; dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Have thin 
slices of salt pork, which lay on the top of the veal. Cook 
a piece weighing twelve pounds^five hours, and baste very- 
often. I should always roast veal in the oven. Make 
the gravy as for raast beef, but do not strain. If pos- 
sible, ahvays cook a large piece of veal, because so 
many nice dishes can be made from cold roast veal. 



MEATS. 39 

Serve mashed potatoes, spinage, asparagus, fried parsnips, 
horseradish. 

Itoast PorJe. 

Wash and dredge a sparerib with salt, pepper, sage, 
and flour ; and roast the same as beef. Cook a sparerib 
weighing ten pounds three hours, if cooked in a tin 
kitchen ; if in the oven, two hours and a half. Have the 
oven moderately hot. The chine to be cooked in the 
same way, allowing one hour longer for a piece weigh- 
ing the same as a sparerib. Make the^gravy as directed 
for roast beef. Serve potatoes, squash, fried or boiled 
onions, boiled rice, mashed turnips, apple-sauce. 



Broiled Beefsteak. 

Cut the steak about three quarters of an inch thick. 
Have a dear fire and lay the steak on the gridiron, and 
dredge lightly with flour. If you desire the steak rare, 
cook ten minutes ; if well done, fifteen. Dish and sea- 
son with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve immediately. 
Never set steak into the oven to keep warm or to melt the 
butter. The dish must be hot, the butter stand in a 
warm room long enough to soften, but do not melt. If 
for dinner, sfirve potatoes, either baked or boiled, and any 
other vegetables which you choose. Many persons pound 
tough steak before cooking, but I would not recommend 
it, as by this means it loses much of its -j.uiciness. 

There are some families in the country who have no 
means of broiling. The next best thing such persons can 



4U THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

do is to heat the frying-pan very hot, and grease with 
just enough butter to prevent the steak from sticking; 
then lay the steak in, and cook, and serve as before di- 
rected. 

Fried 'Beefsteak. 

For two pounds of steak fry brown four slices of salt 
pork, then take up the pork and fry the steak in the fat ; 
salt aftd pepper it. When you dish, add a Irttle butter. 
To the fat remaining in the frying-pan, after the steak 
has been cooked, add one tablespoonful of dry flour (be 
sure to have the fat boiling), and stir until it is brown and 
there are no lumps, then pour in about half a cup of boil- 
ing water. Season well with pepper and salt. Serve in 
a gravy tureen. This is a more economical, but not so 
healthy a method as broiling. 



Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. 

Fry brown four slices of salt pork ; when brown take 
out the pork, and put in six onions sliced thin. Fry 
about ten minutes, stirring all the while ; then take out all 
except a thin layer, and upon this lay a slice of steak, 
then a layer of onions, then steak, and cover thick with 
onions. Dredge each layer with pepper, salt, and flour. 
Piur over this one cupful of boiling water, and cover 
tight Simmer half an hour. When you dish, place 
the steak in the centre of the dish, and heap the onions 
around it. Serve the same vegetables as for broiled 
steak. 



MEATS. 



41 



Ifalianed Beef. 



Broil the steak as before directed ; place in the dish 
and cover with onions prepared in the following manner : 
Slice very thin four good-sized onions, and fry in pork fat 
thii-ty minutes, then add half a cup of boiling water,' cover 
tight, and simmer thirty minutes longer. While frying, 
season with pepper, salt, and a little butter. Vegetables 
the same as for broiled steak. 

Stewed Beef. 

• 

Take a piece of beef that is rather tough, or pieces of 
tough beefsteak ; rub into it a handful of salt, some pep- 
per and flour ; lay in a kettle that you can cover tight, and 
that has a flat bottom. Cut up an onion, a potato, a small 
turnip, a carrot, and a parsnip ; lay these on top of the 
meat, and then sprinkle in half a teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, half of mace, one fourth of clove, and add cold wa- 
ter enough to cover it. Let it come to a boil, skim off all 
the scum, then cover tight, and simmer five hours. Afler 
it has been boiling four hours, mix half a cup of flour 
with cold water, and add to it. You can then taste it, 
and add more seasoning if neces.sary. The spice may be 
omitted if you choose. Serve the meat in a little of the 
gravy, and send the remainder of the gravy to the table in 
the gravy-tureen. Serve plain boiled potatoes, boiled rice, 
and pickled beets. 



42 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Fricassee of Beef. 

Put one pint of water into a frying-pan, and when it 
conies to aboil, thicken with one heaping spoonful of flou*; 
season with salt, pepper, and a little butter. Cut cold 
roast beef into slJles'and put into this gravy, and let them 
boil five minutes. If there be any cold beef gravy, add 
it to the other, in which case you will not need quite so 
much butter. Serve boiled potatoes, tomatoes, boiled 
rice or macaroni, and squash. 

Mutton Chops. 

Cut the chops from the loin or the neck ; broil as you 
do beefsteak, and serve in ^oi dishes. - Serve mashed 
potatoes, stewed tomatoes, boiled onions, and boiled rice. 

Mutton Pie with Tomatoes. 

Pare and slice six tomatoes ; put a layer into a deep 
pudding dish, then put in a layer of slices of cold mutton, 
and drfedge in flour, salt, pepper. Have the last layer to- 
matoes, over which sprinkle two rolled crackers. Bake 
one hour. Serve boiled potatoes, boiled rice, green corn, 
shelled beans. 

Mutton Fie, Flain. 

Take the cold mutton that has remained from a former 
dinner, cut into thin slices, put into a pudding dish, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour 



MEATS. 43 

with cold water, then pour on to this one pint of boiling 
water, and season with pepper and salt, then poiu" this 
over the meat. Make a paste by rule foi plain piecrust, 
and cover it. Bake one hour. Vegetables the same as 
for pie, with tomatoes, with the addition of stewed to- 
matoes. * ^ , 

MvMon Fricassee. 

Mutton fricassee is made the same as beef. Heap the 
meat in the centre of the dish, and garnish the sides with 
boiled rice. Send to the table very hot. ^erve mashed po- 
tatoes, mashed turnips, baked tomatoes, and shelled beans. 

*• 

Haricot of Mutton. 

Take cold mutton (either boiled or roasted), cut into 
slices, and lay in a deep sauce-pan, and then put in one 
fourth of an onion, the same of turnip, and two potatoes, 
and one carrot, all cut into small pieces. Dredge with 
flour, salt, and pepper. Cover with cold water, and boil 
slowly one hour ; then add two spoonfuls of flour mixed 
with cold water, and boil one hour longer. Have a dish 
ready with an edging of mashed potatoes (brown them 
or not, as you please), and into the centre of the dish tvtiii 
the haricot. Serve mashed potatoes, boiled rice, mashed 
turnips, and carrots. 

Minced Mutton.- 

Take all the fat from cold mutton, and then put it into 
the chopping-tray ; dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour, 



44 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. . 

and then chop (do not chop it very fine) ; then put nito 
a sauce-pan, and to two pounds of meat allow one cup 
of boiling water and a spoonful of butter. Let it boil 
gently fifteen minutes, and dish on toast. This is a nice 
dish for breakfast or dinner. 



Lamb Chopf. 

Broil fifteen minutes over clear coals. Season with but 

ter, pepper, and salt. 

c 
Broiled Veal. 

Cut veal into thin sliees, and broil twenty minutes. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt. This is the most 
unsavory method of cooking veal, and I would not recom- 
mend it. 

Fricassee of Veal. 

Fry eight slices of salt pork brown. Take out the pork 
and put in ikin slices of veal which have been cut from 
the leg. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry brown. 
When all the veal is fried, mix with the boiling fat two ta- 
'blespoonfuls of dry flour ; stir until there are no lumps, and 
the. flour is brown; then add two cups of boiling water, 
and season with salt and pepper. Lay the veal in this 
gravy, and simmer fifteen minutes. Dish, and pour the 
gravy over the meat. If for dinner, garnish with boiled' 
rice, and serve plain boiled potatoes, spinage, and horse* 
radish. 



MEATS. 45 

Veal CuUeta, 

Fry brown eight slices of salt pork. Take them up, 
and add to the fat two large spoonfuls of lard or drippings. 
Have ready thin slices of veal (they are best cut from the 
leg), dip them in an egg which has beert*well beaten, then 
into cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Season them, 
before dipping in the egg and cracker, with pepper and 
salt. Serve with the salt pork. If for dinner, serve mashed 
potatoes, boiled or stewed parsnips, and horseradish. 

Veal on Toast, 

Chop the veal as for mutton. Mince and season in the 
same manner. Use a little more water, and boil fifteen 
minutes ; dish on toast, and garnish with thin slices of lem- 
on. This is a nice dish for either dinner or breakfast. 



Veal Croquettes. 

Chop cold veal fine (boiled is the nicest), season jwith 
pepper and salt, and to a quart of veal, after it is chopped, 
add half a cup of warm water (when chopping the veal, 
dredge in flour as for veal on toast), form this into egg 
shapes about the size of an egg, and dip into a well-beaten 
egg, then roll in cracker crumbs, and fry, as you would 
doughnuts, in hot lard. 



40 THB APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

ForTs, Steak. 

Cut pork steak quite thin, and sprinkle with salt, pep* 
per, and a Utile powdered sage. Put a spoonful of drip- 
pings or lard in tlie pan, and lay the pork in it ; fry slowly 
fifteen minutes. Always be sure that the meat is cooked 
until white at the centre; if it has a pink appearance,' it 
is not done. If for dinner, serve boiled potatoes, squash, 
boiled onions, and apple-sauce. 

• 

Fried Salt Pork. 

Cut salt pork into slices a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
off the rind, and then pour over them boiling water, in 
which let them stand ten minutes ; then turn off the wa- 
ter, and fry until they are brown on both sides. 



Broiled Salt Fork. 

Prepare as for fried, and broil ten minutes over clear 
coals. 

Salt Fork Fried in Batter. 

Fry the pork as before directed ; dip in batter, and fry 
in the pork fat, to which should be added two spoonfuls 
of drippings or lard. Make the batter in the following 
manner: Mix gradually with one cup of flour one cup 
of milk, and then add one well-beaten egg and a little 
salt. This makes a pleasant cfiange in the country, where 



MEATS. 47 

it is SO difficult to get fresh meat Serve potatoes and any 
other vegetable that you please. 



Fried Sausages, 

Cut the sausages apart and wash them ; then lay them 
in^he pan and pour boiling water over them ; let them 
boil two minutes, then turn off" the water and prick tha 
^sausages with a fork, or they will burst open when they 
begin to fry. Put a little drippiggs in the pan with them, 
and fry twenty minute^ Turn them often that they may 
be brown on all sides. Cut stale bread inlo fanciful 
shapes, fry in the sausage fat, and garnish the dish with 
it; Brown bread is delicious fried in this way. Serve 
plain boiled potatoes, squash, mashed turnips, and apple- 
sauce. 

Broiled Sausages. 

Scald as for fried, and broil as you would any other 
kind of meat. Sausages that are kept a long time be- 
come dry and hard ; they are very much improved by 
covering them with boiling water in which half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus has been dissolved, and boiling twen- 
ty minutes before frying them. 

Figs' Feet Soused. 

Scrape and wash the pigs' feet. Clean them, cover them 
with salt and water, and let them stand two days ; then 
turn this water off, and coVer again with fresh salt and 



<]^ THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 



« 



water ; let them stand two days longer, then boil about 
two hours. When cold, split them, and pour over them 
boiling vinegar, in which there have been thrown a few 
whole cloves, a piece of stick-cinnamon, and a handful 
of salt. They will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

Fried Flga' Feet. 

Put into the frying-pan four spoonfuls of drippings 
or lard, and when this boils,, lay in the feet, first baving 
dredged them with flour, and fry brown. Serve on 'hot 
dishes. They can be fried before or after being soused. 
Never season them with butter. 

Pigs' Feet Fried in Batter. 

Take the feet from the vinegar and drain them, then 
dip them in a batter made as for pork, and fry in either 
drippings or lard. 

Figs' Mead Cheese. 

Boil a pig's head until the bones will drop out. When 
cold, chop fine and season highly with pepper, salt, and 
sage ; then put it into a kettle, and to every quart of meat 
add one half a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled. 
Simmer this slowly for half an hour, and turn it into deep 
earthen dishes, and on top place, a plate with a weight 
upon it. Set in a cool place, and when cold cut in slices. 
If there is any danger of its not keeping, scald it over. 
Many persons put spice in, but it is more natural without 



MEATS. 49 

Fried Ham. 

Gt.t the ham in very thin slices, and cut off the rind. 
Have half a spoonful of boiling drippings in the frying- 
pan, lay the ham in this, and fry quickly eight minutes ; 
it will then be brown and crisp. Where the ham is for 
dinner, have the slices larger and thicker, and if you do 
not have eggs with it, fry bread, as directed for sausages. 

Broiled Ham. 

Cut the ham in thin slices ; cut«off the rind, and broil 
over clear coals ten minutes. Butter or tiot, as you please. 
When the ham is very salt or hard, slice, and let stand in 
boiling water ten minutes before frying or broiling. 

Ham, and Eggs. 

Fry the ham as before directed, and when the ham is all 
fried, turn the fat into a basin, and scrape the salt from the 
frying-pan ; turn back the fat, and add to it half a cup of 
lard. When this comes to a boil, break in your eggs, 
leaving room to turn them, if you prefer them turned ; 
they look much nicer, however, when they are not turned. 
If they are not turned, dip up the boiling fat while they 
are cooking and pour over them ; they will cook rare in 
three minutes, well done in folir. Lay them on the slices 
of ham, and serve. 
4 



50 THE APPLEDOEE COOK BOOK. 

Fried lAver. 

Cut either beef or pork liver into slices about half- an 
inch thick, and pour boiling water over them, in which let 
them stand twenty minutes ; then drain, and dredge with 
flour, salt, and pepper. Fry six slices of pork brown ; 
take them up, and in the fat fry the liver fifteen minutes. 
Serve the pork with it. 

Broiled Liver, 

Prepare as for fryiftg, and broil fifteen minutes over 
clear coals. Seasbn with butter, salt, and pepper. When 
for dinner, serve boiled or baked potatoes, squash, and 
macaroni. 

Boiled Tripe. 

Wash a tripe clean (it must be washed in several wa- 
ters), and boil ten hours. Turn it often, as it is apt to 
stick to the bottom. After it has boiled seven hours, throw 
a cupful of salt into the boiler with it. When eaten plain 
boiled, cut up in squares, and serve with seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and butter. 

Broiled Tripe, 

Cut the tripe, after it has become cold,' into handsome 
squares ; grease tlie gridiron, and broil ten minutes. Sea- 
son with salt,- pepper, and butter. Serve on very hot 
dishes. If you buy tripe, get the honeycomb, as that is 
the nicest part of il. 



MEATS. 51 

Fried Tripe. 

€hit into handsome squares, and dredge with salt, pep* 
per, and flour, and fry a light brown, in either drippings 
or lard. 

Soused Tripe. 

Cut the tripe into squares, and lay them in an earthen 
pot, and pour over them boiling vinegar enough to cover, 
in which a -blade of mace, a dozen whole cloves, and a 
stick of cinnamon have been boiled. It will be ready for 
use in twelve hours, and will keep several weeks. Soused 
tripe may be either broiled, or fried plain, or in batter. 

Tripe Fried in Batter. 

Drain the tripe, and make a batter as for pigs' feet ; dip 
the tripe in this, and fry in hot drippings or lard. Tripe 
is nice cooked in this manner, either before or after it has 
been soused. 

Calf's Head and Pluck. 

-Take out the brains, and lay them in a dish of cold 
water. Scrape the head and wash, then lay in a tub of 
cold water two hours ; then put into a pot with two gal- 
lons of cold water. Tie the brains in a cloth, and boil 
with the head. When it comes to a boil, skim carefully. 
Whan it has boiled two hours, put in the heart, liver, and 
feet, and boil two hours longer. When you dish, take the 
bones from the head, and place it in the centre of the dish. 



53 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Cut some slices from the heart and liver, and place around 
the head. Split the feet, and lay on the edge of the dish. 
Serve with brain sauce. To make the brain sauce$ \i0a\d 
together the brains, half a teacup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, two of salt, one of parsley, one of summer 
savory. Pour on this one pint and a half of boiling water, 
and let it boil twenty minutes, then add one cup of butter 
and tlie juice of two lemons, and boil five minutes^ longer. 
You may omit the herbs if you choose. A piece of salt 
pork boiled with the head and pluck is an improvement, 
but it is not necessary. The tongue is nice cuf in thin 
slices and served cold. The heart, liver, and head make 
a nice hash. Save the liquor to make soup,, which may 
be made plain or mock turtle. 

Bash made from Calf's Sead and Pluck. 

Chop together parts of the head, liver, and heart, in the 
proportion of one third each. Season with pepper, salt, 
a little fresh lemon or a little vinegar. Warm in just 
enough of the liquor in which it was boiled, to moisten it 
Just-before dishing, stir in a little butter. Serve on toast. 

Meat Mash. 

Chop fine any kind of cold meat (before chopping 
dredge with salt and pepper. This is always the best 
manner of seasoning hash, as by this means all parta»will 
be seasoned alike). If you have cold potatoes, ckop fine 
and mix with the meat, if they are A'oi, mash. Allow one 



MEATS. 53 

third meat to two thirds potato. Put this mixture in the 
frying-pan with a little water to moisten it, and stir in a 
spoonful of butter, or, if you have nice beef drippings, 
use that instead of butter. Heat slowly, stirring often, and 
when warmed through, cover and let it stand on a mod- 
erately hot part of the stove or range twenty minutes. 
When ready to dish, fold as you would an omelet, and 
dish. Save all the trimmings and pieces that are left of 
all kinds of meat, and have a hash once or twice a week. 
It does not hurt a hash to have different kinds of meat 
in it. Avoid having a hash (or indeed any other part of 
your cooking) greasy. It is a great mistake to think that 
seasoning anything highly with butter improves it ; on the 
contrary, it often ruins it by disguising the natural flavor, 
and giving you an unhealthy dish. I have nothing to say 
against a moderate use of butter in cooking, but I do strong- 
ly protest against the immoderate use of it in soups, gravies, 
hashes, stews, and on meats and fish of all kinds. I do not 
know of one kind of soup that is improved by the addi- 
tion of butter. 

Observe, when you let steak stand in thS oven or on 
thfe hearth a few minutes after buttering, you will find 
that the butter has become oily, and you have neither the 
flavor of the meat or butter, but an unpleasant oily flavor. 
I have given only the simplest modes of cooking meats in 
this department, and many may think, perhaps, that I 
have been too minute ; but I have not forgotten the time 
when these little, hints as to how to put things together, as 
well as the quantities and kinds to take, would have been 
of untold value to me ; and I know that every day there 



54 THE APPLEDORE COOK POOK. 

are.young housekeepers, and young girls who have to work 
in young housekeepers' kitchens, who need just these little 
hints to make the simplest dishes what they should be. 
For soups, poultry, and richer methods of cooking meats, 
look in the department for rich cooking. 



Boiled Potatoes. 

If the potatoes are new, wash clean and put into boiling 
water; bt)il thirty minutes, and serve immediately. As 
they grow older, scrape the skin off before boiling. For 
old potatoes, have a sharp knife with a iMn blade, and 
pare the potatoes, having the skin as thin as possible. 
They are very much better if they stand in cold water a 
few hours before boiling ; then put them in boiling water 
and boil thirty minutes. When they have boiled fifteen 
minutes, throw in a handful of salt. When done, turn off 
the water and let them stand on the back part of the range 
three minutes, then shake them up once and turn into the 
dish, and send to the table. ar 

Mashed Potatoes. 

m 

Prepare and boil as for plain, and then mash. To two 
dozen potatoes add one cup of boiling milk and one 
spoonful of butter. If they are not salt enough, add a lit- 
tle more. They should be dished as soon as mashed. 
Heap them in the dish in an oval form, smooth and in- 
dent with the knife. 

55 



56 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Browned Potatoes. 

Prepare and mash as for plain mashed potatoes ; then 
heap them ih an oval form on a buttered tin sheet. Smooth 
with a knife, and then dip the knife in milk and smooth 
over again, ^^etting eyery part with thp milk, and place in 
the oven to brown ; they will brown in twenty minutes in 
a hot oven. I would not reeornmei\d browning potatoes, 
as.the moisture, being baked in, spoils the flavor and ren- 
ders them clamiiiy. They look handsojme made into pear 
shapes and browned. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Be very particular to, wash every part of the potato 
clean, as many persons eat the skin. Put them in a pan 
(have an old one for this purpose), and bake in a moder- 
ate oven fifty minutes. There is such a differepce in p.yens 
that each one niust learn for herselfr what the time will be 
for each ; for some will bake in less time, and some will 
take much longer than the time designated. 

Fined Potatoes. 

Pare and slice fhiK raw potatoes, and let them stand in 
cold water several hours ; if in summer, put a piece of 
ice in the water. Cut the slices lengthwise of the potato 
Have ready a basin with boiling, drippings or lard, drain 
the potatoes a minute in a cullender, and drop them into 
the boiling fat, and fry a light brown ; take them out with 



VEGETABLES. 57 

a skimmet, and lay them in a dry cullender, which should _ 
be placed in a tin pan and set in an open oven. There 
should be as much fat as for fi"ying doughnuts, and there 
should not be any more potatoes put in at a time than will 
fry brown and not stick together. Have the basin in 
which you fry quite deep, as there is danger of the fat 
boiling over when the potatoes are put in. When you take 
the potatoes up, dredge a little salt over them. When 
potatoes are cooked in this manner, they will be light and 
erisp. If they do not get cooked enough at first,_ they are 
very much improved by dropping them into the fat for 
one minute, after they have bgea standing in the oven a 
while. 

Fried Boiled Potatoes. 

Cut the potatoes into slices, and fry in either pork fat 
or nice drippings. Have just fat enough in the pan to 
prevent their sticking,, and sprinkle, with salt while cook- 
ing.. When these; are brown, take them up and "put in a 
little more fat, and fry as before. 



Potatoes warmed with PorJe. 

Cut about eight, slices of pork into pieces, aibout half an 
inch square, and fry a nice brow.n> Have ready one. dozen 
cold potatoes cut into slices, and turn them into the pan 
with the fried pork, and dredge in a little salt and pepper,- 
then stir and cut them into small pieces with the knife. 
When a light brownj seirve. 



58 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Potatoes warmed in Gravy. 

Slice cold potatoes as for frying, and turn them into the 
frying-pan, and to a dozen potatoes add a pint of cold 
gravy. Season with pepper and salt, and stir, and cut 
with a knife, until they are hot and in small pieces. 

Fricassee of Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small squares, and put thern^ 
in a basin with milk, pepper, and salt,- allowing half a pint 
of milk to a dozen potatoes. Set the basin into another 
of hot water, and when it comes to a boil, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and set on the stove, and let it boil up 
once, then serve. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash and boil, with the skins on, forty-five minutes. 
They are much better baked than boiled, and I would 
cook them so generally. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash and wipe dry, and bake one hour. Do not cook 
squash when you have sweet potatoes. 

"Boiled Onions. 

When new and tender, they will boil in one hour ; but 
after the month of October, they will require two hours. 



VEGETABLES. 59 

Put them into water before peeling them, and they will not 
affect the eyes. Peel 'off all the dark skin, and put them 
in hot water, and boil as directed. If you have milk plen- 
ty; half an hour before they are done, turn a quart into 
the water in which they are boiling. This makes them 
white, and is said to prevent, in a measure, the disagreea- 
ble odor which always follows their being eaten. Boil 
them in a porcelain kettle. Dish them whole, and season 
with a" little pepper, salt, and butter. 

#■ ' - ,- 

I^ied Onions, 

•Peel aftd slice thin ten good-sized onions, and put them 
in a frying-pan with two spoonfuls of drippings. Fry 
thirty minutes, turning often. 

Boiled Squash. 

Cut the squash in strips, and cut out the soft, stringy 
part ; pare, wash, and cover with boiling water ; boil 
twenty-five minutes, then turn into a cullender for a few 
minutes, and when all the water is drained off, put it back 
in the basin with a little salt, pepper, and butter, and 
mash. Dish the same as mashed potatoes. 

Baked Sqttash. 

Cut the squash in two, take out all the soft, stringy part ; 
il you need the whole squash . for dinner, lay the halves 
together, and put in a baking-pan (the old one you use for 



6o THE APPLEDOBK COOK BOOK. 

baking potato^ m), and bake forty-five mjiuites. When 
done, scrape the squash from the shell, and season, and 
serve as boiled squash. When you cook but half a 
squ,ash, lay it with the inside downward This is a nice 
yi^ay to cook watery squas^. Squash is also good steamed. 
It; yn}l take for^-fiye minutes to steam. 

Beets. 

Wa^h clean, but do not scrape ; if you do they will look 
white when cooked. When young they will cook in two 
hours ; but old ones will require four or five hours. When 
done, plunge them into cojd water, and the skip jviU p^el 
oflf easily. Cut in thin slices, and lay in a flat dish. 

Pickled Beets. 

. Cut the beets that are Ijeft from dinner into thin slices, 
and lay them in an earthen vessel, and cover with cold vin- 
egar and a few whole cloves. Keep in a cold place. 

STfiBlled Beans. 

Wash, in several waters, and put them, in a basin with • 
boiling water. Boil one hour. Do. not- drain them, veiy 
dry. Season with butter and salt. 

Baked Beans. 

Examine ajid wash one; quart of dry beaps (the pea 
bpan. is tbe b^st), and put them in, a pan. with six qyarts. 



VEGETABLES. 6l 

of cold water ; let them spajs in tliis over night. In the 
morning wash them in another water, and place them on 
the fire with six quarts of cold water and a pound of 
mixed salt pork. If they are the present year's beans, 
they will cook enough in half an hour ;. if older, one hour. 
Drain them and put -half in th^ bean-pot; then gash the 
pork, and put in the remainder of the beans, one table- 
spoonful of molasses, and one of saltj and cover with boil- 
ing^vs^ater. Bake ten hours. Watch them carefully, and 
do not let them cook dry. 

String Beans. ' 

String and cut into pieces alpout an inch long ; then 
w^sh ifhd put into boiling water, and hoi,l one hour. Sea- 
son with sal,t and butter. 

Stewed Beans. 

Wash and soak over night one quart of beans. (Scar- 
let runners are the best.) In the morning set them on 
the fire with six quarts of cold water and one and a half 
pounds of mixed salt pork. They will cook in four hours, 
but are better cooked five. Stir them often to prevent 
burning. Season with pepper before dishing, and if the 
pork does not season it enough^ add a little salt. 

Green Peas. 

-Put- them into bpiljijg water, and when very youpg they 
will cook in twenty ij>inijt§s ;, but geu^ralily they reqfjire 
thirty. Season with salt and butter. 



62 THE APPLEDOEE COOK BOOK. 

Green Com. 

Boil t\yenty-five minutes, if very young and tender. As 
it grows older it requires a longer time. Send to the table 
in a napkin. 

Boiled Tv/mips. 

Peel and cut into .slices. If they are to be served in 
slices, boil with a small piece of pork. Boil the pork 
three hojip, and put in the turnips ; if they are the white 
turnip, they will cook in forty-five minutes ; but if the 
yellow, they will require two hours. Serve in slices with- 
out any seasoning except what they get by being boiled 
with the pork. ' For mashed, cook in the same way, omit- 
ting the pork, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. 
When the white turnip is very vvatery, it is improved by 
mashing a few mealy potatoes with it. Dish as directed 
for mashed potato. 

BoUed Parsnips. 

Scrape very clean, and cut lengthwise into slices. Put 
them into a stew-pan, and cover with water, and boil one 
hour. Serve with a Itiile drawn butter. 



Fried Parsnips. 

Prepare as before directed, "and boil half an hour. Let 
them grow cold, and fry a light brown in»pork fat. (Nev- 
er use butter to fry.) They are very nice cooked whole 
with a piece of pork, as you cook turnips. The time 



VEGETABLES. 63 

to eat parsnips is in April and May, and they should be 
dug fresh when used. Dig a large box full in the fall, 
and cover them with earth. Use these for soups ; they are 
one of the nicest vegetables that there are for flavoring 
soups. 

Boiled Carrots. 

Prepare, boil, and serve the same as parsnips. 



BoUed Bice. 

Wash and pick all the specks from a cup of rice. Let it 
stand in cold water two hours, and then put it in a deep 
kettle, ,with two quarts of water, and boil Jizsi thirty min- 
utes. When it has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a 
great spoonful of salt. When done, turn into a cullender, 
and set in the oven a few minutes. When ready to dish, 
shake lightly and iurn into the vegetable dish. Never 
use a spoon. If these directions are followed, you will 
have a handsome and healthy vegetable, and every ker- 
nel will be separate. The water in which the rice has 
been boiled makes a nice starch for colored clothes. 

The southern rice cooks much quicker and is nicer tnan 
the Indian rice. If possible, always pufchase the former. 

Another Mode. 

Wash one cupful of rice and put into a tin basin or 
pail, witti three cupfuls of cold water, and a teaspoonful 
of salt, cover and set in another basin, with hot water, 



64 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

place OM the fire, and boil thirty nainuites. Rice is. very 
healthy^ and should be a common dish on the table. 



Stewed Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over half a peck of ripe tomatoes. 
Let them stand in it five minutes, and thea peel oflT the 
skins ; cut them into slices, and put in a sj^w-pan with a 
little salt, pepper, and a spoonful of sugar. Simmer 
two hours, stirring often to prevent burning. Two min- 
utes before dishing stii in one tablespoonful of butter. 
Canned tomatoes are cooked in, the same manner, but do 
not require more thain half an houj; tP stew. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

. Pour boiling water over tliem, and then peel and slice: 
thin ; lay them, on spoiall platters,, and serve. Let each 
pevson season to his own taste. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Scald and! peel as directed-; have rea4y an earthen diph, 
Lnflio which, lay a layer of tomAtoes. (wliiQle)^^ then sprinkli^ 
with salt, pepper, and cracker crumbs ; then another layer 
of tomatoes, and sprinkle, again vyith salt and pepper. Cut 
a spoonful of butter into small pieces and lay on the to- 
matoes, andi them cover with craijkei! crumbs. Bakfe tbir- 
ty minutes. 



VEGETABLES. 65 

Asparagus. 

Cut ofF the vrjiite part, wash aiid tie in small bunches, 
and put into a Sfiuee-pan with boiling water enough to 
cover it, and a baiidful of salt. When young it vviU hoil 
in twenty minutes ; if not tender, boil thirty. Dish on 
toast, and seasop with ^ little bpttei'; 

Spinage. 

Pick carefully and see that there no weeds or grass in 
it ; then wash in several waters. Ppt on to boil in boiling 
water, and boil an hour and a half. When about half 
done, throw into the water a spoonful of salt. When 
done, drain and put in a dish with a little butter, and cut 
it several times with a knife. Dish and garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled egg. You can boil it with a piece of salt 
pork, and then you will not require the butter and eggs. 

Cabbage. 

Cut the stalk and all the loose leaves from the cabbage ; 
then cut the cabbage into four parts, and wash clean. Ex- 
amine it carefully, as there are worms in it sometimes. 
Put it in a deep pan, and -^omx. boiling water over it, and 
let it stand in the shed (that it may not scent the house) 
half an hour. Boil with a small piece of salt pork two, 
hours, or you can boil it with corned beef, as rn^ny persons, 
do ; but it has not the white appearance that 't ha^ wheH, 
boiled with pork. When cold, it is nice warmed with a 
little of the drippings of corned beef. 
5 



66 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 



Cauliflower. 



Cut off the loose leaves and "the stock; wash clean, and 
let it stand in cold water one hour ; then put on to boil in 
boiling w^ater, and if very large, boil one hour and a half; 
but if small, one hour will answer. When nearly done, 
stir in a spoonfiil of salt and half a pint of milk. Serve 
whole in a deep dish, and spread over it a little butter. 
The milk can be omitted, as its only use is to whiten the . 
cauliflower. 

' Dandelions. 

Pick over carefiilly, and wash in several waters ; cut-off 
.all the roots, then put into boiling water, and boil one 
■hour ; then drain off this water, and again put them into 
boiling water, and boil two hours longer. Put a spoonful 
of salt into the second water. When done, turn into a cul- 
lender and drain ; then season with butter and more salt 
if necessary, and cut them with a knife. Serve in a deep 
vegetable dish. They may be boiled with a piece of salt 
pork, but in that case omit the butter. 

Beet Greens. 

Scrape the roots and wash in several waters ; then let 
them stand in cold water a few hours. Boil a small piece 
of salt pork three hours, then put the beet greens into the 
kettle with iti and boil one hour longer. 



VEGETABLES. 6'J 

Macceroni BoUed. 

Break up and wash a pint bowl full of macaroni, and 
put in a shallow .basin, and cover with cold water. Set 
this basin into another of warm water, and place on the 
fire ; after fifteen minutes, add -a pint of milk and a^ tea- 
spoonful of salt ; let it cook ten minutes longer, then add 
a spoonful of butter, and cook five minutes more, and 
dish. Be careful not to break the macaroni in dishing. 
The boiled macaroni which remains from one dinner can 
be used for the next, by preparing it in the following man- 
ner : Butter a shallow dish, and turn the rhacaroni into it; 
th^n grate over it old cheese, and brown. 



Always purchase the best flour ; it is much cheaper 
than the low priced. Keep a large, tin pan or wooden 
bowl fultof sifted flour, and always keep the flour covered 
Have two quarts, one for diy, and the other for liquid 
measuring. The old beer measure is the kind to get. If 
you buy milk, it will not do to consider the milkman's 
quart for any rule in this book. You must always meas- 
ure with the bqer measure. Good bread is the most im- 
portant branch of cooking. Therefore 1 hope every 
housekeeper, who cannot already make good bread, will 
give particular attention to this branch before attending to 
cake or pastry of any kind. It seems as if enough Kad 
been written and said, in regard to this subject, to awaken 
every young woman to the importance of it ; but it is not 
so. If a young lady learns to do any kind of cooking, it is 
cake and pastry, and if she learns to make bread, it is the 
last thing, instead of the first, to be learned. Now I cer- 
tainly think that no girl should pass her "eighteenth year 
without a practical knowledge of bread-making, cooking 
vegetables and plain meats. I have no objections to all 
the nice fancy cooking, which any one may learn after- 
wards ; but have bread, vegetables, and roRdA&Jirst. When 
reading a rule for doing anything, it seems as if th6 process 

68 



BREAD. 69 

were longer and harder than when the rule is very short. 
But I hope none will feel so because I have gone into all 
the details, for I feel that it is because of the neglect of the 
small things that so many fail in cooking, as in every- 
thing else. • , 

Mop Yeast. 

Pare and boil one dozen mealy potatoes (they will boil 
in thirty miuutes) ; as soon as you put the potatoes on to 
boil, put a handful of hops into another kettle with three 
quarts of cold water, cover and boil (watch it that it may 
not boil over); When the potatoes are boiled, drain and 
mash fine ; then strain the hops through a fine sieve on 
the potatoes (be sure that the hops are boiling when they 
are strained on the potatoes), and stir Well ; then add one 
half a cup of sugar, one fourth of salt, and one pint of 
flour ; rflix this well and strain through a cullender ; let 
it stand until it is milk-warm, then stir in one cup of good 
yeast, and set it to rise wher^it will be warm. It will rise 
in five hours if the yeast is good. You can tell when it 
is riserl by the whita^foam, which will rise to the top. 
When risen, put it in a stone jug, and stop tight. It is a 
good jjlan to tie the cork down, as it sometimes flies out. 
Set in the ice chest or on the cellar bottorn. Make one 
third this quantity in'summer if your family be small. 

jffop Yeast, jTo. 2. 

In the spring and the first of the summer, w'hen potatoes 
are poor,'it is better to make yeast without them. Boil otio 



7© THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

fourth of a cup of hops in one quart of water, arid strain 
it upon half a pint of flour ; stir this well, and add two 
spoonfuls of sugar and one of salt, then strain through 
a cullender, and let it become milk-warm, when add one 
cup of good yeast. You need ^ust as much yeast for one 
third the quantity made without the potatoes, as you would 
for the whole made with potatoes. Rise and bottle the 
same as the preceding. _ » 



* Potato Yeaat. 

k 

Pare and boil six good-sized potatoes ; when done, 
mash, and pour on them three pints of boiling water ; 
run this through the cullender, and then stir in one spoon- 
ful of sugar and one of salt. When 'milk-warm, stir in 
half a cup of yeast. In summer-time this will rise in 
three or four hours. It will not keep as long as hop 
yeast. 

*iM Teast^read. 



Take four good-'sized potatoes,gj)eel, boil, and mash, 
and pour on to them one quart of boiling water ; strain 
the whole through a sievfi ; let this get blood-warm, and 
tl'.en stir into it one cup of yeast, one spoonful of white 
sugar, one spoonful of salt, and three quarts and a pint of 
flour. Beat well with a spoon and set in a warm place 
to rise. (In the summer it will rise in four hours, in win- 
ter it will take five.) When well risen, take a pint of 
flour and ptft part of it oti the kneading-board ;. then turn 
the dpugh upon the board, and put one spoonful of lard 



BREAD. 71 

on it ; then knead twenty minutes, using the pint of flour ; 
now put the dough in the pan again, and let it rise ona 
hour, and then form into loaves. (Do not have over a 
pint bowl full of dough in a loaf.) Let the loaves rise 
forty minutes, and bake forty-five minutes. Bread made 
in this way cannot be excelled ; the only objection to it is 
that you have to bake in the afternoon ; but when good 
br^d is wanted, a little extra work should not prevent its 
being made. 

Yeast Bread, No. 2. 

Make a hole in the middle of four quarts of flour, into 
which turn one spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and one cup 
of yeast ; then mix with one pint of cold milk, which has 
been v\i;^rmed by the addition of one pint of boiliiig water, 
and add one spoonful of lard ; knead well, and let it rise 
over night. In winter, let it .begin to rise near tlie fire the 
first of the evening, unless your kitchen is very warm. 
But in summer do not mix until nine, unless you intend 
baking before breaki^st. In the morning knead^again, 
and make into loaves ; let them rise one hour, and bake 
fifty minutes. If you have not plenty of milk, mix with 
water, and' use one spoonful more of lard. There is a 
great deal in knowing how to knead ; strength is not all, 
as many suppose. When you put the brea^on the board, 
mix it lightly, and when you begin to knead it, do not 
press down, but let all your motions be as elastic as pos- 
sible ; knead with the palni of the hand until the dough is 
a flat cake,, then ^old, and keep doing this until the dough 
is smooth and elastic ; twenty minutes is the time I have 



73 THE APPLEDORE GOOK BOOK. 

given, but many persons can knead the bread in less time, 
while others will require longeri But practice will teach 
eaeh one. 

MfHk Yedsi Bri^d. 

Put into a two-quarts-arid-'a-pint pail one pint of ne-u) 
milk, and one pint of boiling water ; mix with this one 
tabtespoonful of white sugar, one of sal.t, and three plhts 
of flour. Beat this well together, and cover tight (have 
a spoon that is so short that you can put the cover on 
the pail while it is in it, and yet ifrpiust be long enough 
to come nearly to the top). Set this pail into another 
pail, or kettle, with water enough to come nearly to the 
top of it. To get this water the right temperature, t:ike 
one half ^old and one half boiling water ; set it where it 
will keep about the same temperature until risen ; watch 
carefully, and beat the batter as often as once in every half 
hour until the last hour, when it must not be disturbed. 
This will rise in about five hours ; "when it is risen the 
pail will be full. Do not let it stand one minute after that,' 
as it spoils very quickly. Have in a pan two quarts" of 
flour, make a hole in the- middle of it. TDissolve a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a litde hot water, and when the 
batter is risen turn it into the middle of the flour, and turn 
the saleratus in with it ; then knead well, and make into 
loaves. Set them where they will be warm, and let them 
rise forty-five minutes. Bake in a quick oven. *It will 
take nearly a pint of flour to knead the dough^'on the 
boafd. Be as particular to measure your flour as you are, 
to measure the milk and water. This bread is not so 



BREAD. 73 

healthful as hop yeast bread, and is more difficult to 
make ; but it makes the nicest dry toast and delicious 
sandwiches. 

Graham Bread, 

Take two quarts of Graham {never sift if) and one of 
flour, half a cup of yeifet, one scant spoonful of salt, half a 
cup of brown sugar, and warm water enough to make a 
stiff batter, and let it rise. If you rise it over night, be sure 
to set in a cool place, as it sours, much quicker than fine 
flour. It will rise in a warm place in four hours. When 
risen, mix with it a teaspoonfiil of saleratus dissolved in 
warm water, and flour enough to shape it into loaves ; put 
it in the pans, and let it rise thirty-five minutes, and bake 
slowly an hour and a quarter. Make the loaves very 
small. Use molasses instead of sugar if the bread is eaten 
for constipation. 

Third Bread. , 

Take one quart of flour, one of Indian meal, one of rye, 
one cup of yeast, one" spoonful of salt, half a cup of brown 
sugar, and nearly a quart of warm water ; mix well to- 
gether, and let it rise over night. In the morning use flour 
enough to shape it into loaves, and let it rise in' the 
baking-pans forty-five minutes. Bake one hour and a 
quarter. 

Brown Bread. 

Take one heaping pint bowlful of rye meal, two of 
Indian, one cup of yeast, one of molass^Mipne spoonful 



74 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

of salt, one teaspoonful sale^atus. Mix with warm water, 
as thick as hasfy-pudding. Lard the dish in which it is 
to be baked, and then turn in the mixture ; let it rise two 
hours, and bake in a slow oven four hours. 

Brown Bread, jTo. 8. 

Very nice. . Three cups of Indian meal, three of rye, 
one half of molasses, one spoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus ; wet with milk enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Steam five or six hours. This will make enough to 
fill a two quart pan. 

Brown Bread, No. 3, 

Nice. One pint of sour milk, half a cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful saleratus, one tablespoonful of salt, half 
Indian and half rye meal enough to make a stiff batter ; 
lard the baking-tin- well, and turn in the' mixture. Steam 
five hours. I will say here, that you cannot steam brown 
bread too much ; but do not steam it less than five hours. 

BaAsed Biscuit, 

If the biscuit are for breakfast, take part of the dough 
of yeast bread No. 2, and mould with the hands very 
small cakes, place them in a shallow pan, and rise one 
hour. Bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. Never cut 
raised biscuit with a cutter; they are enough nicer for 
being moulded by the hand to pay for the extra labor.^ 
When the biscuit are for tea, take part of the dough of 



BREAD. y^ 

No. I, and proceed as directed for breakfast biscuit. 
When the supper hour is six, do not set your bread until 
ten, if in summer, but if in winter, half past eight. Begin 
to make the biscuit two hours before supper-time ; by tbis 
means'you will have plenty of time to rise them. Shape 
the loaves at the same time, and they can be baked while 
you are getting supper. 



Maised Biscuit, No. 2, 

Take three quarts of flour and one cup of butter, one of 
yeast, one spoonful of salt, one of sugar. Melt the butter 
and mix with a scant quart of warm milk ; wet the flour 
with this, and set in a warm place to rise. When it cracks 
open it is risen enough. When it is risen, work into it 
two teaspoonfuls of saleratus which have been dissolved 
in half a cup of hot water. You must work it very 
thoroughly, or the saleratus will not be mixed with every 
part. Now put the dough into large tin pans or pails (do 
not have the vessels more than half full, as the dough will 
rise again), and set them on the ice. This dough will not 
be fit to use under twelve hours, as it must be chilled 
through. When you wish to make biscuit, take part of 
this dough and lay on the. paste-board, and roll about an 
inch thJfck ; cut in small cakes, and bake fifl:een minutes 
in a quick oven. Handle the dough as little as possible, 
and keep very cold until you put it in the oven. This is 
a very nice way to make biscuit where the family have hot 
bread twice a day, as it will keep five days ; but there must 
be a good ice-chest, and plenty of ice to have it work welL 



>J& THE APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 

White Mountain Bolls. 

For breakfast. Sixteen cups of flour, one half a cup of 
white sugar, one cup of butter, one of yeast, the whites of 
four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and four cups of boiled 
milk. Melt the butter, have the milk blood-warm, and 
mix the bread ; set in a warm place, and rise over night ; 
in the morning shape into long rolls, rise one hour, and 
bake half an hour. 

Parker House Itolls, 

Take two quarts of flour, and rub into it a tablespoonful 
of lard and a little salt ; put in a deep bread-pan, and 
make a hole in the flour, into which pour one pint of cold 
boiled milk and half a cup of yeast. Cover the pan, and 
let it stand all night ; in the morning stir it up and knead 
well, and set in a warm place to rise ; let it rise to a light 
sponge (it will rise in an hour and a half), then roll it out 
on the board about half an inch thick ; cut v?ith an oval 
cutter, and fold about two thirds of it ; lay them on tin 
sheets ; let them rise, an hour, and then bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. If you have breakfast at seven, you 
must be up at four to have them ready. 

Coffee Bolls. 

Take twelve cups of flour, one of white sugar, one half 
of butter or lard, one of ye^st, one grated nutmeg, and 
three eggs. Mix with three large cups of warm milk, 
and let it rise over night ; if well risen in the mornmg, 



BREAD. 77 

knead and set in a cool place until three o'clock in the 
afternoon, then shape into long rolls, as you do White 
Mountain rolls, and let them rise one hour and a half. 
Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. When done, glaze 
them with a little milk in which a little brown sugar has 
been dissolved, and set them back in the oven "for two 
minutes. These are for tea. They are nice, sliced thin, 
when cold. 

Bunns, 

Bunns are made the same as coffee rolls, with the addi- 
tion of two cups of English currants. They are shaped 
like biscuit, only a little smaller. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Take one quart of flour, before it is sifted, and put into 
the sieve, and with it one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of 
cream of tartar, one of salt, and one tablespoonful of white 
sugar. Mix all these thoroughly with the flour ; iAen run 
through the sieve, and then rub in one spoonful of lard or 
butter. Wet with a little over half a pint of milk. Roll 
on the board about an inch thick ; cut with a biscuit cut- 
ter, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. If you 
have not milk, use a little more butter, and w4t with wa- 
rer. Handle as little and make as rapidly as possible. 

Cream of Tartar Bolls. 

Take one pint of flour, before it is sifted, put it into the 
sieve with one teaspoonful of cream, of tartar, one half of 



78 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

saleratus, one half of salt, one of sugar, and mix them 
together, then run them through the sieve ; wet with half 
a pint of milk. Heat and grease the French roll pan, 
and put a large spoonful into every compartment ; set ■ 
into a hot oVen, and bake fifteen minutes. This quantity 
will make just one roll pan full. 

Sour MUk Biscuit. 

Rub half a spoonful of butter or lard into one quart of 
flour, and wet it with one pint of sour milk, into which 
you have previously stirred one teaspoonful of saJeratus, 
which had been dissolved in a little hot water. Use as 
much more flour as you find necessary to make the dough 
stiff enough to roll out. Roll on the board about an inch 
thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick 
oven. If you use lard for shorte«ing, add one teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Buttermilk Bolls. 

Take two coffee cups of buttermilk, and stir into it one 
teaspoonfulr of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and 
stir into this about five cups of flour ; beat this up lightly, 
and bake iUfFrench roll pans, the same as cream of tartar 
rolls.' These are very nice. This will make two roil 
pans full. 

Graham Bolls. 

Take two- coffee cups of sour milk, and stir into it one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, one of salt, half a cup of sugar, 



BREAD. 79 

two eggs, one cup of flour, and Graham enough to make 
a stiff batter. Bake the same as cream of tartar rolls, al' 
lowing ten minutes longer. 

Graham Molls, No. 2. 

Take one cup of ice water, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and Graham enough to make a thick batter ; beat this light' 
ly, and bake in French roll pans in a quick oven. This 
makes one pan full. 

Corn BtOlla. 

Com rolls are made the same as Graham, using Indian 
meal instead of Graham. 

Com CaJee, 

Three teacups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one tablespoonful.of sugar, one of butter; wet this with 
boiling water, and then beat in one egg ; spread half an 
inch deep on buttered tin sheets,' and bake brown in a 
quick oven. This is delicious. 

Corn Calee, No, 2, 

Three teacupfuls of Indian ipeal, one of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, and one of 
yeast. Mix this with cold water enough to make a thin 
batter , let it rise over night, and in the morning add one 
teaspoonful of saleratus and one tablespoonful of meltstf 
butter. Bake in round tin plates in a quick oven. 



8o 



THE APFLEDORB COOK BOOK. 



Com Cake, No. 3. 

% 
One pint of new milk, one pint of Indian meal, one pin! 

of flour, half a cup of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 

saleratus, two of cream of tartar, salt. Measure the m6al 

and flour after they have been sifledj and put into the sieve 

with the saleratus, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt. Mix 

well together and sift. Break the eggs into the pan in 

which you intend mixing the corn cake, and beat light ; 

then turn in the milk and stir in the meal. Bake in tin 

plates in a quick oven. 



Corn Cake, No. 4. 

One pint of Indian meal, one handful of flour, half a cup 
of rice (measured before it is boiled) * boiled, soft, one 
quart of new milk, and a spoonful of salt. Boil the rice 
as directed for a vegetable, and drain dry (it may be boiled 
the night previous if you choose), and turn it into the 
milk ; set the milk on in hot water, and let it boil, and 
when boiling-, pour it on the meal and flour. Beat the eggs 
well and stir into the mixture. Turn it an inch deep into 
buttered pans, and bake thirty-five minutes. This can be 
made with.or without the rice. 



B,ye Drop Cakes. 

Three well-beaten eggs, one pint of new milk, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
BCgar, and rye enough to make a stiff batter ; half fill 



BREAD. 81 

eartlien cups, put them in an old pan (the one you use 
for baking potatoes), set in the oven, and bake one hour 



FlouM' Drop Cakes. 

Flour drop cakes are made the same as rye, only do not 
have the batter so thick. 



Flour Drop Cakes, No. 2. 

One pint of new milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, half a cup of butter, and four and a half of flour. 
Beat the eggs to a froth, melt the butter and turn upon the 
eggs with the milk and sugar ; then stir in the flour, and 
bake in earthen cups one hour. 

Graham Drop Cakes. 

Graham drop cakes are made the same as rye, with the 
addition of half a cup of sugar. 

« 
Muff,ns. 

One quart of milk, one cup of yeast, nine cups of flour, 
butter the size of a walnut, and four eggs. Make a bat- 
ter wfth the milk, butter, yeast, and flour ; beat the eggs 
and stir in ; set in a warm place, and let it rise four hours, 
and then bake in buttered mufBn rings, or fry on the grid- 
dle in rings. 

6 



82 THE APPLEDOEE COOK BOOK. 

Muffins, JVb. 2. 

One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, five cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, two 
eggs, and butter the «ize of an egg. Beat the butter and 
sugar together, and then add the eggs well beaten ; with 
this mix the milk, and then beat in the flour in which the 
saleratus and cream of tartar have been mixed. Bake in 
buttered muffin rings in a quick oven. 

Crviddle Cakes, 

Sour Milk or Buttermilk Cakes. 

Two coffee cups of sour milk or buttermilk, ojie tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and 
flour enough to pour. Grease the griddle with a piece of 
fat salt pork, and fry the cakes a light brown. 

Itice Cakes. 

Make with sour milk, as directed above, and add two 
well-beaten eggs, one cup of boiled rice, and one teaspoon- 
ful of salt. They re(^iire a longer time to fry than the 
plain do, but are very nice. 

Indian Cakes, 

Make as the first, using half flour and half Indian meal, 
and one teaspoonfiil of salt. These require a longer time 
to fry than when made with all flour. 



BREAD. 83 

Com Dodgers. , 

Take three teacups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of 
Bait, one tablespoonful of sugar, and pour on boiling wa- 
ter enough to wet it ; then make into small flat cakes 
about an inch thick, and fry in boiling fat until brown. 
They will fry in fifteen or twenty minutes. To be eaten 
very ^hot. 

Bread Calces. 

% 

Take stale bread and soak it in milk ; when soft, run it 
through a cullender. To one quart of this add one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, two eggs, one cup of flo\ir, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a 
nutmeg. These also take some time to cook. The eggs 
may be omitted if you choose, but you must then use half 
a cup more of Sour. 

Buchwheat Cakes. 

One pint of warm water, half a cup of yeast, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a cup of Indian meal, two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, and buckwheat enough to make a ■ 
tkin batter ; let this rise over night ; in fhe morning sift 
in one teaspoonful of saleratus, and fry. If you have 
them every morning, save a little of the batter to rise them 
with, instead of using fresh yeast every time. The Indian 
meal may be omitted if you prefer them without ; in that 
case use a little more buckwheat. They may be made 
with sour milk, as the flour are made, by substituting buck- 



84 THE APPLKDORE COOK BOOK. 

wheat for flour ; but they are not so good as when raised. 
Buckwheat is so fine that care must be taken to stir and 
beat well from the bottom, or there will be lumps of 
dry buckwheat there. 



Fried Mush. 

Into one quart of boiling water stir one tablespoonful 
of salt, and one cup of flour mixed with one quart of In- 
^an meal (it may take a little more than a quart of meal 
to make it stiff enough) ; beat it well, or it will be lumpy. 
Boil gently two hours, and then turn into dishes which 
have been Hipped in cold water, and set away to cool. 
Pans in which you bake loaves of bread are the best to 
cool it in, as it then makes handsome slices. In the morn- 
ing cut into slices an inch, thick, and fry brown in pork 
fat. Serve slices of fried pork with it. You can cook 
enough at one time for several breakfasts. If you do not 
wish to fry the mush, do not use the flour, and do not 
make quite so stifl*. 

Brown Bread Brewis. 

If you bake brown bread there will be a great deal of 
hard crust. Take this crust and put in a basin with a 
little salt, and cold water enough to cover it ; cover tight, 
and set on the fire to boil ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes, 
and serve in a deep dish. It must be dry and soft This 
is very nice eaten with cold corned beef or cold tongue ; 
it can also be eaten with milk or sirup. 



Tea Cake. 

One spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, one of ipilk, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, and 
one pint of flour. Beat the sugar and butter together, and 
then the two eggs ; next stir the milk with- them, and then 
stir in the flour in which the saleratus and cream of tar- 
tar have been thoroughly mixed. Turn it, about an inch 
deep, into shallow pans, and bake in a quick oven. To 
be eaten warm. 

Berry Cake. 

Make the same as tea cake, only measure the pint of 

flour before it is sifted, and stir in one pint of blueberries. 

s. 

m 

Plain Cv^ CaJee, 

Half a cup of butter, one of sugar, three of flour, one 
of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of 
cream of tartar, and lemon or nutmeg to taste. Beat the 
butter light, then add the sugar gradually, beating all the 
time until it is a cream, and then add the eggs, which 
have been beaten light, and the milk ; mix' all these well 

85 



86 



THE APPLBDORE COOK BOOK. 



together, and then stir in the flour, in which the saleratus 
and cream of tartar have been mixed. Flavor and bake 
either in loaves or sheets ; when done, the place on top 
where it has cracked 'open will look well done. If baked 
in loaves, it will take forty minutes ; in sheets, twenty. 
This quantity will make two small loaves. 

Micher Cwp Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of saleratus, 
four *ggs, and a' nutmeg. Put together as directed for 
jJlain cup cake. This will make two large loaves. Bake 
in a moderate oven fifly minutes, or more. 



Railroad Cake. 

. One cup of sugar, one half of milk, one and a half of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and one half of saleratus. 
Flavor with lemon, and bake in thin sheets. Put together 
as directed for plain cup cake. 



Cream Cake. 

Very nice. Beat to a froth one cup of sugar and three 
eggs, and on this pour one cup of sweet cream ; then 
stir in one and a half cup& of flour in which one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus and two of cream of tartar are thoroughly 



PLAIN CAKE. 87 

mixed. Flavor with lemon, and pour into shallow pans. 
Bake, in a rather quick oven, thirty minutes. 



Feather Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one of milk, two scant cups of flour, 
one egg, one tablespoonful of butter,^half a teaspoonful of 
saleratus, one of cream of tartar, and flavor to taste. Soften 
(but do not melt) the butter, and beat it with the sugar 
and egg; then add the milk, and then the flour mixed 
with the saleratus and cream of tartar. Bake in shallow 
pans in a quick oven. ^ 

Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, two of flour, 
one half of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one half of saleratus. Beat the sugar and eggs together, 
and add the water when they are light, then the flour, in 
which mix the saleratus and cream of tartar. Flavor with 
lemon, and bake in a quick oven. 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonfuLof cream of tartar, and half of saleratus. Beat 
sugar and «eggs together, and then beat in the flour in 
which the saleratus is mixed; Flavor with lemon, and 
bake in sheets in a quick oven. 



OS THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Allie's Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
three of flour, one half of butter, one pound of raisins, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cinnamon, and one 
of cloves. Beat sugar and butter together, then add mo- 
lasses and spice, th^ the sour milk in which the saleratus 
is dissolved, and then the flour, and last the raisins. Bake 
in loaves in a moderate ovenv If the raisins are not stoned, 
chop them. It is much better, however, to stone them. 

" Raisin Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one of butter, one of milk, three 
of flour, two of chopped raisins, and one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Spice to your taste. Sofl:en the butter and 
beat it ai^d the molasses together; then add milk, and 
then the flour in which the saleratus is mixed, and lastly 
the raisins. Bake in loaves in a mod»rate oven. 

Apple Cake. 

Wash clean two cups of sliced dried apple, and soak 
over night ; in the morning chop one half of them, and 
stew them all slowly in two cups of molasses, until they 
are dark. One cup of butter, two of sugar, two of 
chopped raisins, two thirds of sour milk, four i^ggs, two , 

^easpoonfuls of saleratus, five cups of flour, aljd all kinds 
jof spice. Put together as directed for raisin cake, and 

'stir in Jhe apple ano^ raisins last. Ba}ce in loaves, in a 
moderate Oven, from two hours aqa^a half to three. 



PLAIN CAKB. % 



Mich Molasses Gingerbread. 

Two cups of molasses, two of milk, on'e of melted but- 
ter, two and a half teaspoonfuls of saleratus, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, and one nutmeg, one cup of 
sugar, and eight cups of flour. Beat molasses, butter, 
sugar, aind eggs, together ; then disst)lve the saleratus in 
the milk, and add it with flour, ginger, and nutmeg ; beat 
up well, and pour about two inches deep into pans, and 
bake half an hour. This will keep well, but being nearly 
as expensive as cup cake, I would rather make it plainer 
and ofl:ener. 



Soft Molasses Ginfferbread, No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saderatus, one 
of ginger, one tablespoonful of butter or lard*, a {)inch of 
salt, if you use lard. Stir this together, and then pour on 
one half a cup of bojling water, and flour enough to make 
a thin batter. .Bake about one inch deep in a sheet. This 
is veiy nice if pains are taken to have the water boiling, 
and to beat it well when the flour i$ added. 



Soft Molasses Gingerbread, No. 3. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, half of saleratus, one egg, 
and flour enough to make a thick flatter. Bake about one 
inch deep in a tm sheet. 



yO THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

BarA Molasses Gingerbread. 

One pint of molasses, half a cup of lard or buttel 
(half a tablespoonfiil of salt when you use lard) , one ta- 
blespoonful of ginger, one of saleratus f^beat all thig to- 
gether, and when well mixed add half a pint of cold 
water, and flour enough to rolf. Roll this very thin, and 
cut in strips about three inches wide and six long, with 
a jagging-iron, and bake in a quick oven until brown. 
When you take them from the oven, lay them on a sieve 
to cool, and when cold, put them in a tin box that can be 
covered tight; keep this in a dry closet, and they will 
keep nice and crispy for a month. 

Mard Sugar Gingerbread. 

One cup ©f butter, two of sugar, one of sour milk, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus, and -flour enough to roll. Beat the sugar and but- 
ter to a cream, then beat in the eggs ; add the ginger and 
sour milk in which the saleratus is dissolved, and then the 
flour. Roll about half an inch thick ; cut, bake, and keep 
ythe same as directed for hard molasses g^ingerbread. 



Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of molasses, one of butter, one of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, and two eggs. Put the molasses 
and butter in a tin pan, and set on the fire ; when ft boils 
up, take off, and add the sugar and ginger. When they 



PLAIN CAKE. 91 

are well mixed, add the eggs, which have been well 
beaten, and then flour enough to roll. Put a small piece 
at a time on the board, and roll as thin as the blade of a 
knife ; cut into round cakes,' and bake in a quick oven until 
they are a dark brown. Cool, and keep in a tin box, the 
same as hard gingerbread. 

Molasses Cookies. 

:. One cup of molasses, one of brown sugar, one of lard, 
one half of boiling water, one spoonful of ginger, one of sal- 
eratus, one of salt, and flour enough to roll. Beat sugar, 
lard, molasses, saleratus, and ginger together ; then pour 
on the boiling water, and mix jn the flpur. Roll about 
three quarters of an inch thick, and cut with a round cut- 
ter. Bake in a quick oven. 

Vinegar Cookies. 

Two cups of molasses, one of butter or lard, two eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; one of ginger, one of sal- 
eratus, and flour enough to roll. Roll about half an inch 
thick, cut into r9und cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Suga/r Cookies. 

On3 cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
two eggs, half a nutmeg, one teaspoonful saleratus, and 
flour enough to roll. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, 
then add the eggs, well beaten, dissolve the saleratus in 
the milk, and stir that in, then the flour. 



92 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

. iTunibles. 

Three cups of sugar, two of butter,' three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, four tablespoonfuls of sour cream, 
and flour enough to roll. Beat sugaif and butter to a 
cream, then add the eggs, which are well beaten, then the 
sour cream in which the saleratus is dissolved. Flavor 
with anything you please. Cut with an oval cutter. If 
you have a cutter that takes a piece out of the centre, use 
that. When you roll them, sift over the dough, before 
you cut it, granulated sugar, and then roll the pin lightly 
over it. This is a much better way than to sift the sugar 
on after the cakes are put in the pan, for when sifted in 
the pan it burns on it, and'spoils the looks of the pan and 
cakes. Great care must be taken in baking all kinds of 
cakes which you roll on the board, as they burn very 
quickly ; and again, if they are not baked enough, they 
will not be nice, keep well, or be healthful. Where there 
are children, this is the most economical way to make 
cake, but takes more time ; and also in families where 
they do not care for cake, they are nice to keep in case of 
unexpected company. 

Plain Doughnuts, 

One pint of flour, half a cup of sugar, one spoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of sal- 
eratus, half a nutmeg, and milk enoltgh to wet and roll. 
Soften the butter .and mix with the milk (about one cup- 
ful) ; mix the sugar, saleratus, cream of tartar, and the nut* 



PLAIN CAKE. 93 

meg with the flour, and stir into the butter and milk. Aft 
ter beating well with the spoon, put on the board, roll 
about an inch thick, and cut in any shape you please. 
Have ready boiling lard or drippings, and fry until done, 
whieh will be in. about eight minutes. The addition of 
two eggs is an improvement, but not necessary. When 
you have finished frying, cut a potato in slices and put in 
the fat tt) clarify it, then set the kettle one side until it set- 
tles, then strain into an earthen pot (keep one on purpose 
for this), and set in a cool place. The sediments which 
remain in the bottom put in the soap-grease. Many per- 
sons fry doughnuts in the common frying-pan, but there 
is not depth enough to it. It is much better, if you have 
not an iron kettle that is deep enough, to use a tin basim 



Raised Doughnuts, 

One cup of sweet milk, one spoonful of butter, four of 
yeast, four of sugar, half a nutmeg, and flour to make a 
stiff" batter; let this rise over night. In the morning roll 
out, cut in strips, with, a jagging-iron, about four inches 
long and two wide, and fry. Common raised dough 
makes very nice ones to be eaten as soon as fried, either 
for breakfast or tea. 

Doughnuts should not be eaten before November or af- 
ter April ; indeed, they are not very healthful to eat at 
any time. Keep covered in a stone pot in the cellat. 



BoiZed Mice. 

Pick and wash clean one cupful of rice, and put into a 
basin with a pint and a half of cold water ; set on the 
stove where it will cook slowly ; or, better still, set into 
another basin of water, and cook slowly. When the rice 
has absorbed all the water, turn on it one quart of new 
milk, and stir in one tablespoonful of salt ; let this cook 
two hours, stirring often. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Boiled Mice. Wo. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice, and boil in one quart of 
boiling water fifteen minutes, and then drain diy. Wring 
a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, and spread in a 
deep dish, and turn the rice into it, and sprinkle in one 
cup of raisins and a tablespoonful of salt ; tie the cloth 
loosely that the rice may have room to swell, and boil 

two hours. Serve with lemon sauce, or sugar and cream. 

• / 

Baked Bice. 

Boil half a cup^f rice in one pint of water thirty min 
Ktes, and then add one quart of new milk, and boil thirty 

94 



PUDDINGS. 95 

minutes longer; then beat together one cup of sugar, 
three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and a little lemon or 
nutmeg ; stir this into the rice and turn the mixture into 
a buttered pudding-dish, and bake thirty minutes. To be 
«aten withoutiifiauce. 



<- 'Baked Bice. No. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice ; put it in a dish ti/at 
will hold two quarts and a pint, and cover with fresh 
milk ; stir into this^ two teaspoonfuls of salt, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, and four of sugar. Set this in the' 
oven, and stir once in every half hour ; after it has been 
baking two hours stir in milk enough to fill the dish, and 
bake one hour longe*?' (the dish should be nearly full of 
milk at first). Se^ve with sugar and milk. . 

■/ 

Minute Pudding. 

One pint of fnilk, one of water, nine tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Sjet the milk 
into a basOTof hot water, and when it comes to a boil 
add to it one pint of jailing water. .^Have ready the flour, 
made into a smooth past^with one cup of milk, and mix 
with this paste, after they are well beaten, the two eggs ; 
now take the basin in whi^ the milk and water are, and 
set upon the fire'^f'let if Soil u|j?once, and then stir in the 
thickening ; beat it well, that it may be smooth, and cook 
three minutes longer. Serve with vinegar sauce. 



f)6 THE APPLEDORE ' COOK BOOK. 

Corn Starch Ptidding. 

One quart of milk, six tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk in a 
basin, and set the basin into a kettle with boiling water, 
and when it comes to a boil stir in the corn starch and 
eggs, which prepare in the following manner : Wet the 
corn starch with one cup of cold milk, and thSh stir into 
it the eggs which are well beaten. After the starch is 
added to the boiling milk it will cook' in three minutes : 
beat well to make smooth. Serve with sugar and cream 
or wine sauce. Never add tfie eggs after the starch has 
been stirred into the boiling rriilk ; if you do the egg will 
be in spots in it. 

Quahindt Puddittg. 

Take as much stale bread as will fiU*^'a quart basin after 
it is cut; now butter w«ll a.tiij joould or pail that will 
cover tight, and put in a layer of bre^d ; then strew in a 
few raisins, and then bread, and so on until the bread is 
all used (the bread must be cut very ihiri). Make a cus- 
tard of three pints of milk and six eggs, and^eason with 
salt and nutmeg ; turn this on the Wead, and set away in 
a cool place two hours, and then set in a steamer and 
steam three. Serve with wine sauce. This may be 
boiled in a pudding-cloth. |tWhen boiled, prepare the 
same as for steaming, omitHng fbe buttering of the dish, 
and let it soak two hours and a half, then turn into the 
pudding-cloth, tie tight, and boil two hours and a half. 



pxnjDiNGs. 97 

Bride's Pudding. 

Make the same as plain corn starch pudding, using the 
yolks of six e^gs. Butter a pudding-dish, and turn the 
pudding into ite»(do not fill within three inches of the top 
of the dish), and bake thirty minutes ; then take from the 
oven, and let it stand in a cool place twenty minutes.; 
then cover with a meringue. Set in the oven ten minutes, 
and serve with cold sauce. To make the meringue, beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff frothy and then beat into 
■them gradually one cup of sugar. This pudding is quite 
nice made with four eggs, but will not look so handsome. 



Bread Pudding. 

Take a quart basinful of stale bread, and soak i» two 
quarts of sweet milk two hours (keep in a cool place 
while soaking);; then mash well with a spoon, and take 
out all the harjd pieces. Beat light four eggs, and stir into 
this, then add two teaspoonfuls of salt, a little nutmeg, 
and one fourth .of a cup' of sugar, if you serve it with 
sauce ; if not, one and a half cupfuls. Bake three quar- 
ters of an hour, and serve with lemon sauce. Some put 
raisins in, but it must be much stiffer if you have them, 
and the delicacy of the pudding is thereby lost. 

Whortleberry Pudding. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one- of sour milk, four 
of flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, and one 

7- 



98 THE APPLEDORH COOK BOOK. 

quart of berries. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, 
and add the eggs well beaten; then the sour milk, in 
which the saleratus is dissolved, and then the flour, and 
lastly the berries. Wring the pudding-cloth out of boil- 
ing water and spread it in a deep dish ; then turn the 
- batter in and tie. Have ready a kettle of boiling water, 
and drop the pudding into it ; turn the pudding often, and 
boil three hours. Serve with vinegar or wine sauce. 
This can be steamed also. Allow half an hour longer 10 
cook, wh«n steamed. 



Plain Whortleberry Pudding. 

• 

One pint of flour, one egg, half a pint of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful of crepm tartar, half of saleratus, and a 
quart of berries. Beat the egg to a froth and mix with 
the milk ; then stir in the flour, in which the saleratus . 
and cream tartar are thoroughly mixed ; tBen the berries. 
Boil and serve as directed above. 



Boiled Apple Pudding, 

Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized mealy potatoes, and 
turn on them half a pint of boiling milk, and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of butter ; set in a 
cool place, and stir until about blood warm ; then stir in 
flour enough to roll, and roll about an inch thick. Have 
a two-quart basinful of apple's, which are pared, cored, 
and quartered ; spread these on the paste and grate a little 
nutmeg over them ; then roll up the paste, and br>il as 



PUDDINGS. 99 

directed for berry pudding, and serve with either maple 
sirup, wine, or vinegar sauce. This can be steamed, al- 
lowing four hours for it to cook. 



Boiled Batfer Pudding. 

Take one cup of flour, and add to it gradually one quart 
of sweet milk ; then stir in one teaspoonful of salt and six 
well-beaten eggs. Turn this into the pudding-cloth, and 
tie tight, leaving room for it to swell one third. Boil two 
hours. Serve with wine sauce. Great care must be taken 
in boiling puddings to have the water boiling when you 
fut the pudding in, and to keep it boiling all the time. 
Steaming is the safer way, and I would always steam 
rather than boil, if I. had the convenience. When boiling, 
always keep a kettle of boiling water to fill up, as it boils 
away from the pudding. For a pudding-cloth get three 
quarters of a yard of drilling. Keep an old saucer to put 
in the bottom of the kettle, in which you boil the pudding, 
to prevent its being burned. When you are ready to dish 
the pudding, have a pan of cold water, into which plunge 
it immediately upon taking it from the kettle (but do not 
let it stand in cold water one second) ; then put it in a 
deep dish, and untie the string ; open the cloth and turn 
the pudding-dish on it ; then lift the pudding up by means 
of the cloth, and turn over. You will thus preserve the 
shape of the pudding. Batter puddings are very difficult 
to make, and I would not advise a young cook to try them 
at first . 



lOO THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Baked Apple Pudding, 

Make a paste as directed for plain pie-crust, and line J 
dish with it, and fill the dish with sliced apples. To a 
dish holding three quarts, allow one cup of sugar, one 
half of molasses, one of water, one nutmeg, and half a 
teaspoon of cinnamon ; cover this with the paste, and 
bake slowly three hours. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or with cold sauce. 



, Pan Dowdy. 

Pare and slice tart apples enough to fill, about two 
inches deep, a flat earthen or tin pan. To three quarts of 
apple add one cup of sugar, one grated nutmeg, one cup 
of cold water, and butter the size of a walnut. Cover this 
with plain pie-crust (have the crust about an inch thick), 
and bake slowly two hours and a half; then cover and 
set where it will keep hoi one hour. Serve with spgar 
and cream. When done the apple will look red. Do 
not break the crust into the apple after baking, as by this 
means you spoil the pastry. If you wish to have it richer, 
cover with puff paste. 

Apple Dowdy, 

Pare and quarter about one dozen good tart apples, put 
them in a kettle with one cup of molasses, a small piece 
of butter, and one pint of hot water. Set this on the fire, 
and let it come to a boil, and while it is heating make a 



PtnJDINGS. lOI 

paste with one pint of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, 
one half of saler^tus, and a little milk ; roll this large 
enough to fit into the kettle, and when the mixture begins 
to boil, put the paste in, cover tight, and boil gently twenty 
minutes. To be eaten without sauce. This is very nice 
when the apples are tart and it is made well. 



Apple Charlotte. 

Butter a brown earthen dish, and place around the sides 
slices of bread which have been cut about an inch thick, 
soaked in cold water, and^ buttered ; fill the dish with 
sliced apples, and grate over them one nutmeg ; strew on 
one cup of sugar,- and then pour on one cup of water ; 
this will carry the sugar through the apple. Cover the 
apple with slices of soaked and' buttered bread, then cover 
the whole with a large plate, and bake in a very moderate 
oven four hours. Remove from the oven half an hour 
before time to dish, and set where it will be cooling. 
When ready to dish, loosen gently round the edges with a 
knife, lay the dish in which you intend serving it *»n the 
one. in which it was baked, turn the dishes over, anc* lift 
the pudding-dish off. This is a very handsome dish. 
Serve with sugar and cream or plain. 

Apple and Sago Pudding. 

Wash half,a cup of sago, and set on the fire with three 
pints of cold water ; simmer two hours ; then stir in on? 
cup of white sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and one of tha 



I02 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

extract of lemon. Have ready a deep pudding-dish, in 
which, after it has been well buttered, put as naany pared 
and cored apples as will stand in the dish ; turn over thenj 
the sago, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Tapioca and Apple Pudding. 

Prepare the tapioca as directed for sago. Pare and 
quarter ten tart apples, and when the tapioca is cooked 
stir them into it, turn them into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake one hour and a quarter. Remove the pudding 
from the oven half an hour before it is served, or it will 
be thin. Serve with -sugar and cream. 

Boiled Tapioca Pudding. 

Wash one cup of tapioca, and soak it one hour in one 
pint of cold water, then stir in one quart of milk and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt ; set the basin into another of hot 
water, and set on the fire; cook one hour and a half. 
Serve with sugar and cream.' 

Baked Tapioca Pudding. 

Prepare the tapioca as before directed, allowing o^e. 
pint more of milk for the same quantity of. tapioca. Beat 
together one .cup of sugar and four eggs ; stir this into the 
tapioca, and flavor with lemon or nutmeg. Bake in a 
buttered dish half an hour. Serve without sauce, or omit 
the sugar and serve with wine sauce. 



ptnjDiNGS. 103 

Custard Pudding. 

Beat together three tablespponfuls of sugar and four 
eggs ; stir this into one quart of milk, with one teasj)Oon- 
ful of salt;, flavor with nutmeg -or lemon. Bake until 
firm in the centre ; this you tell by inserting the handle ol 
a teaspoon. Do not let the oven get hot enough to 6oil it. 

Baked Indian Pudding, 

Three tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, one cup of molas- 
ses, two quarts of milk, two eggs, butter half the size of 
an egg, one tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoohfuls of 
salt ; boil one quart of the milk, and pour it boiling on 
the meal, then turn in the molasses, and next the cold 
milk, butter, ginger, salt, and eggs. Bake five hours in a 
moderate oven. Serve with cream. The eggs and gin- 
ger may be omitted if you choose. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, two of cream of tartar. Soften the butter, and then 
beat to a froth with the sugar and eggs ; then add the 
milk, and lastly the flour, in which \h.e saleratus and 
cream of tartar are thoroughly mixed. Flavor with lemon, 
and bake in two shallow pudding-dishes half an hour, in 
a moderate oven. Serve with lemon saucp. The pud> 
ding is improved by sifting sugar over it, before baking. 



J04 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Sponge Pudding. 

Beat to a froth three eggs and one cup of sugar ; stif 
into this half a cup of cold water, and th^n two cups of 
flour in which are mixed one teaspoonful of saleratus and 
two of cream of tartar. Flavor with lemon, and bake in 
two shallow dishes. When baked, frost with frosting No. 
2, and let it stand in a warm place ten minutes, theti send 
to the table with lemon sauce. Bake twenty-five minutes. 

ItalioM letters. 

Cut stale bread into slices an inch thick, and soak thetn 
in a custard made with two eggs and a pint of milk ; then 
fry a light brown in boiling lard (have as much lard in 
the pan as you would for doughnuts), and serve with 
either wine sauce No. 2 or cider sauce. Have the dishes 
very hot. , 

I have here given rules for twenty-three plain puddings, 
and if anything richer is desired, it will be found in Part 
Second. 



Plain Pie Crust. 

Into one quart of flour rub a large spoonful of salt and 
half a cup of lard,, and then wet with ice-water enough to 
make a soft paste ; roll this on the board until it is about 
half an inch thick, then spread on half a cup of washed 
butter, dredge with flour, and fold into a sri^all square. 
Pound lightly with the rolling-pin, then roll out again ; 
roll it up, and set on the ice to harden ; it will be ready to 
use in two hours. In winter it can be used immediate- 
ly. To make the bottom crust, rub three quarters of a 
cup of lard into one quart of flour and one spoonful of 
salt, and wet with cold water, to make a soft paste. Do 
not roll, as it makes it tough. Butter is more healthful 
than lard ; therefore, if you can afford it, use it. 

Crea/m Paste. v 

,% 

To oi^e quart of flour add one spoonful of salt, and mix 
to a soft paste with sweet cream ; roll thin and spread with 
cream and dredge with flour, fold and roll again ; repeat 
this operation three times, then make the pies. Pies made 
with this paste taste nice, and are not hurtful, but do not 

los 



Io6 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

lock SO handsome as when made with butter and lard. 
Look in Part "Second for minute directions for making 
paste. 

Sliced Apple Pies. 

Line the plates with bottom crust, and fill the plate with 
quartered apples. To a common-sized plate allow two 

- spoonfuls of sugar, a little nutmeg, and two spoonfuls of 
water. Cut the upper crust a little larger than the plate, 
and raise the under crust with the blade of the knife, and 

May itj under it. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 
Wherf molasses is preferred, use three spoonfuls, aiid a 
little cinnamon instead of nutmeg. 

Stewed Apple Pies. 

Pare, core, and stew the apples with just water enough 
to prevent their burning. ' To a quart of stewed apple 
allow one cup of sugar. Bottom the plates and roll a 
piece of the top crust out (making it long enough to go 
around the plate), cut into strips an inch wide, and lay- 
around the plate, then put in the apple. (Do not make the 
pie too thick.) .Grate over it a little nutmeg, cover, and 
bake in a rather quick oven forty minutes. 

Dried Apple Pies, 

Cook the apple according to the directions given in. Part 
Second, under Dried Apple, and make the same as stewed 
apple pie. 



PIES. 107 

Berry Pies. 

Line the plates, and fill as full as you can with berries, 
and dredge on about half a spoonful of flour, and two 
spoonfuls of sugar, and two of water ; cover as directed 
for s3iced apple pies, and bake forty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. All berry pies are made in this manner, if 
they are very sour using more sugar. Cherries and cur- 
rants do not require any water, but more sugar, and they 
must not be heaped in the plate as blueberries, black- 
berries, raspberries, and strawberries are. 



SJiubarh Pies. 

Cut the rhubarb in the morning, or if you buy it, always 
keep in a cool place until ready to cook it. Strip off the 
skin and cut it into pieces about an inch long; stew in 
just water enough to prevent its burning; when cold, 
sweeten to taste. Cover the pie-plates, and roll the upper 
crust about half an inch thick ; cut into strips an inch wide, 
and after filling the plate with the rhubarb, put on four 
cross-pieces and the rim. Bake half an hour. 



Squash Pies. 

Tare, boil, and sift a good dry squash. To one quart 
of the squash pour on two of boiling milk, an(^ then stir 
in two cups of sugar, two spoonfuls of salt, one of cinna- 
mon, one grated nutmeg, and five well-beaten eggs. Line 
deep plates with plain' paste, fill with the mixture, and 



I08 THE APFL£DORE COOK BOOK. 

bake one hour in a moderate oven. The pies look nicei 
to boil a stick of cinnamon in the milk, instead of using 
the ground. 

Crfunberry- Fies. 

Stew the cranberries according to directions in Pari 
Second, and make the same as rhubarb pies. 



Gooseberry Fies. 

Stew the gooseberries in as little water as possible, 
sweeten to taste, and make the same as rhubarb pies. 



FumpJein Fies. 

-Pare and cut the pumpkin into' small pieces ; wash an(^ 
put into the kettle with one quart of water ; boil six hours, 
stirring often to prevent burning ; then run it through a 
sieve. Make the same as squash, adding a teaspoonful of 
finger. They may be made without eggs by using five 
pounded crackers. Cook enough of the pumpkin at a 
time to last two weeks ; after you have kept it one week, 

set in the oven and scald, then set away in a cool place. 

* 

Custard Fies. 

Line ^ deep plate witli paste ; make the custard the 
same as for custard pudding ; fill the plate, and bake un« 
til firm in the centre. 



PIES. 109 

Mince Pies. 

Boil a shank of beef six hours ; then take up and set 
away to cool. (Save the liquor for soup.) When cold, free 
from bones and cut of][, all the fat and gristle ; then chop 
fine. To one quart of the chopped meat add tiiree of 
chopped apple, one pint of chopped suet, one quart of 
chopped raisins, one quart of sugar, one of molasses, 
half a cup of cinnamon, one quarter of a cup of cloves, 
one quarter of a cup of allspice, one quarter o( a cup 
of ground mace, six grated nutmegs, half a cup of salt. 
Mix this thoroughly with the hands, then turn on the 
mixture six quarts of good cider, and let the mixture 
stand over night. In the morning scald, in a porce- 
lain kettle, one hour ; then put in stone pots ; cover tight 
and keep in a cool, dry place. This will keep three 
months. To tell the exact amount of spice and Sweet- 
ening is almost impossible, as tastes vary ; but with a little 
judgment, and the rule I have given, I think there cannot 
be any very serious trouble. Prepare the paste and plates 
as for stewed apple pies, and put in the meat ; then grate 
a little nutmeg over it, and strew a few whole raisins in ; 
cover and bake, one hour in a moderate oven. 



Mock Mince Pies. 

Two pounded crackers, one cup of molasses, one of 
cider, one of chopped raisins, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one of clove, two of cinnamon, one of mace, one 
nutmeg. Bake forty minutes. This quantity makes4wa 
pies. 



no THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Pies, 

Soak a pounded cracker in one pint of new milk ; stir in 
to this the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, which 
have been beaten with half a ciip,of sugar and the rind 
and juice of one lemon. Bake in a deep plate, which 
has been lined with plain paste, half an hour. When 
cooked, beat the white of one egg to a froth, and stir in 
one spoonful of sugar ; set in the oven until a light brown. 

Cream Pies. 

Three eggs beaten with one and a half cups of sugar, 
half ajcup of cold water, two cups of flour, in which are 
mixed one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar. 
Flavor with lemon. Bake in deep tin plates, such as you 
use for squash pies, and when cool spit with a sharp knife 
and fiH. This will make four pies. 

Filling for Cream Pies. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, half a cup of 
flour, two eggs. . Put the basin, in which the milk is, into • 
another of hot water. Beat the sugar, flour, and eggs ' 
together until they are light and smooth, and when the 
milk boils, stir in with one teaspoonful of salt. Cook 
twenty mmutes, stirring often. Flavor with lemon. This 
will fill four pies. 



PIES. Ill 

Washington Fles, 

Make the outside the same as for cream pies, and fill 
with any kind of jelly or ^'am you choose. For richer 
pies look in Part Secopd. 



Memarks. 

Always measure flour after it has been sifted, unless 
told to measure before. Always sift Indian and rye meal, 
and never sift Graham or oat meal. Always set milk into 
boiling water to boil, as it boils quicker in this way, and 
there will be no danger of burning. Save all the fat from 
soups, boiled and roast meats. The fat from beef, pork, 
and poultry, keep fSr shortening or frying ; and from ham, 
mutton, and soups, in which vegetables were boiled, for 
the soap grease. To clarify drippings, boil them ^few 
ininutes, and then cut in a raw potato, and let it cook for 
five minutes, then drop in a pinch of saleratus, and strain. 
If all the drippings are taken care of, it will be a great sav- 
ing in a family. In many of the rules given here it has been 
very difiicult to say just how much spice to use, as there 
is such a difference in tastes, so that each one must use her 
own judgment ; but be careful that no one spice predomi- 
nates. Always use twice as much cinnamon and nutmeg 
as you do clove. In making frosting, pudding sauce, and 
all kinds of delicate cake, use the powdered sugsfr, if pos- 
sible. For rich "cake, the cofiee-crushed, powdered and 
sifted, is the best. For dark cake, the brown sugar will 
' be found the nicest. It makes it richer. Save all the pieces 



112 THB APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

of bread for dressing, puddings, and griddle cakes. Tin 
is not very good to mix cake in, and earthen dishes are 
always being broken! The stone china wash bowls are 
very good for this purpose. You can often find odd ones 
at the crockery stores, and they will last a lifetime for 
this puipose. In baking and frying, cook everything 
brown. Bread and pastry are more healthful over-done, 
than under-done. 

One even quart of sifted flour is one pound, one pint of 
granulated sugar is one pound, two good-sized cups of but- 
ter are one pound. Do not buy large quantities of Indian 
and rye meal at a time, as they sour quickly. Keep all 
kinds of meal, flour, and meats in a cool, dry place. Keep 
tea, coffee, and extracts from the air. Never set anything 
into the ice-chest while warm, as it wiH heat the chest apd 
absorb an unpleasant flavor from the chest. This is true of 
the cellar also. Keep a note-book for tried receipts, and 
for any changes which you wish to make in the receipts 
which you are constantly, using. By thought and obser- 
vation one can learn something new in regard to cooking 
every day, and at the time it will s^em so important that 
you cannot forget it ; but you will if you do not have it 
written. 

. In the miscellaneous receipts will be found some very 
nice ones for the family table. TJjey are receipts which 
I forgot, or did not receive until after the book was all 
wi itten and classified. But they were too valuable to be 
left out, and I therefore put them ia under this heading. 



THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

PART SECOND. 



S©¥FS. 

Soup Stock. 

If you buy fresh meat for a soup stock, the shank is the 
most economical. Have it cut into several pieces, and 
the bone cracked, gt the butcher's. Wash and put on to 
boil in two gallons of cold water, and one spoonful <rf salt 
(the salt helps the scum to rise). When it comes to a 
boil, take off the scum and set the kettle where the soup 
will just simmer for ten hours. Then strain into a nice 
tin, which is kept for this, purpose, or a stone pot; set 
where it will be cold, and in the morning skim off all the 
fat, then turn gently into the soup-kettle, being careful not 
to turn in the sediment. It is now ready to make any 
kind of soup. If you wish to have a jelly in the morn- 
ing, boil it iii six quWtts of water. You can then, after 
taking off the f3t, turn the jelly over, and scrape oft' the 
sediment. Use the meat for hash. Another way to 
make soup stock, is to cover the bones of roast meats with 
cold water and treat in tlie same manner.' This should 
8 . "3 



'14 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

always be done in boarding-houses and hotels ; but in 
private families (unless very large), there is not meat 
enough consumed to do this. When making a stock, 
however, if there are any cold mes^t bones, they should 
be used. Professor Blot does not recommend boiling; 
but I have been more Successful in obtaining clear soup 
in tliis manner than when I did not let it boil. I would 
always boil my stock the day before it is to be used, as by 
this means only can fat be avoided, unless you buy all 
lean beef, which is very expensive. Do not boil vegeta- 
bles with the stock, as they cause it to sour quickly. 

Brown Soup. 

Crack the bone of a shank of beef ; take out the mar- 
row and lay in the bottom of the soijp-kettle ; cut the meat 
from the bones and lay it in the kettle, set the kettle on the 
fire and brown the meat on all sides, being careful not to 
burn it. When well browned, put in the bones and two 
quarts of cold water, cover tight, and let it simmer one 
hour ; then put in a stick of <;innamon, eight whole cloves, 
a few,pieces of niace, one onion, one carrot, half a turnip, 
and six quarts of water. Boil this six hours very gently, 
strain and set away. In the morning skim off the fat and 
turn the soup into the kettle ; let it come to a boil ; season 
to taste with pepper and salt ; cut ip. thin slices one fresh 
lemon and -put into the soup, and then tarn into the tu- 
reen. Send to table-toasted bread, cut into small squares, 
in 'a separate dish. Some think that half a wine-glass of 
brandy is an improvement. 



SOUPS. 1 15 

Brown Soup, No. 2. 

Lay the bones from a roast of beef and a roast of mut- 
ton in the soup-kettle. Cut up one onion, one small tur- 
nip, one carrot, one parsnip, and lay in the kettle ; then 
a blade of mace, a'stick of cinnamon, ten whole cloves, a 
sprig of parsley, a sprig of sage, if you have them green, 
if not, a .teaspoRuful of each ; now dredge in a cup of 
flour, a tablespoonful of salt, half of pepper ; then pour 
on eight quarts of cold water, and boil five hours (skim 
carefully when it first boils) ; then strain through a sieve, 
and put back into the kettle with one cup of sago, and 
boil one hour and a half. Serve with toasted bread. Any 
kind of bones will make this^ but beef is the best. 



Brown Soup, No. 3. 

Take two quarts of stock and boil with one onion, one 
carrot, one turnip, six whole cloves, one blade of mace, 
one stick of cinnamon, for one hour ; then strain into the 
tureen, and serve with toasted bread. 



Vegetable Soup, 

Cut into strips two inches long and one fourth of an 
inch wide, two carrots, two parsnips, one turnip, and a 
very small piece of cabbage. Cover these with water and 
boil one hour; then strain them and' put in the soup-ket- 
tle with three quarts of stock ; let this boil up once. Sea- 
eon with pepper and salt, and serve. 



H6 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

» 

JuUewne Soup, 

This made the sama as vegetable soup, putting in every 
kind of a green vegetable. It is made in June, July, and 
the first of August. The stock should be very clear. 
(Omit beets.) 

Barley Soup. ' 

Wash half a cup of pearl barley, and boil it slovirly in 
one quart of water three hours ; then turn into the soup- 
kettle, with three quarts of stock ; let this boil ugfc and 
season with pepper and salt. Serve. 

Sago Soup. 

Make the same as barley, using sago. Two hours will 
cook it. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Made in the same way. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Made in the same way. 

Ox-tail Soup, 

Separate at the jbmts two ox-tails, put them on to boil 
with one onion, one carrot (have them whole), a few 
cloves, a blade of mace, and a stick of cinnamon. Boil 



SOUPS. • 117 

two hours ; then strain the liquor in^ the soup-kettle, 
separate the tails from the vegetables, and spice, and put 
them into the kettle ; to this add two quarts of stock ; sea- 
son with pepper and salt ; boil up once, and serve. 

Tomato Soup. 

Peel and slice tomatoes enough to fill a two-quart basin ; 
put them into the soup-kettle with six quarts of water and 
two pounds of beef; boil three hours ; season with pepper, 
salt, ^id a spoonful of butter. Strain, and serve, with 
toasted bread. 

Cfiblet Soup. , 

Boil the giblets of six fowls in three quarts of water, 
with one onion, one carrot, one small turnip, one parsnip, 
a few cloves, a blade of mace, a stick of cinnamon, and 
two heaping spoonfuls of flour, for two hours ; then strain 
into the soup-kettle. Add to this two quarts of stock, 
and let it boil. Braid up the livers, chop the hearts and 
gizzards, and put them in the soup. Season with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

Turkey Soup. 

Save the liquor in which the turkey was cooked ; the fol- 
lowing morning skim off all the fat ; cut all the meat from 
the part of the turkey which has been left from the din- 
ner of the day previous. Put the bones and liquor on to 
boil with one onion, two parsnips, one small turnip. Boil 
three hours ; then strain, and put'back with half a cup of 
tapioca, and some pieces of the cold turkey. Season vvith 



Il8 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

pepper and salt. .>Boil two hours longer, stirring often to 
prevent the tapioca from burning. c 



ChicJeen Soup. 

Set the liquor, in which two or three fowls have been 
boiled, away to cool. Skim off the- fat, and then put it 
into the soup-kettle with one whole onion and half a cup 
of rice ; boil two hours. Just before dishing take out the 
onion, and put in some pieces of cold chicken. 

White Soup. 

Take any part of veal (the shin is the best), and allow 
one quart of cold water to one pound of veal, and to eight 
pounds allow one onion,"three parsnips,one turnip, a stick 
of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Boil five hours, and 
season with ;-salt and white pepper. When it has boiled 
four hours, thicken with two cups of flour. Boil one hour 
longer ; strain, and serve. 

Beef Soup. 

Boil six pounds of beef in seven quarts of water, with 
one onion, one carrot, one turnip, and eight whole cloves, 
for six hours ; strain, and thicken with half a cup of flour, 
and boil one hour longer, then stir in some of the beef cut 
into small pieces, and serve. 

N. B. Use celery in "all kinds of soup when you can 
obtain it. 



SOUPS. 1 19 

Mock Turtle Soup." 

Take the brains from a calf's head, and put them in a 
bowl of cold water ; wash the head, and let it stand in a pan 
of cold water two hours ; then put it in the soup-kettle with 
eight quarts of cold water and a shin of veal ; let this boil 
three hours, and then set away to cool over night. In the 
morning cut up the veal and put into the soup-kettle, with 
a stalk of celery, one onion, one carrot, one turnip, two 
parsnips, three blades of mace, one stick of cinnamon, 
ten cloves, salt, pepper, and two heads of parsley. Cover 
this with three pints of cold water, and boil two hours. 
Strain this, and wash the soup-kettle, then turn the soup 
back. Now skim the fat from stock, and put that into 
the kettle also. Put into the frying-pan two spoonfuls of 
butter, and when it boils up stir in four of dry flour, stir 
until a dark-brown (but not burned), and when the soup 
boils up stir this in. Now braid half of the brains (which 
you tied in a muslin cloth, and boiled with the head), 
and stir them in. Stir in also a spoonful of walnut catsup, 
one of mushroom catsup, and one of tomato catsup. Boil 
two hours, and then put in the face cut in very small 
strips, one glass of port wine, and one lemon cut into thia 
slices, and let it boil up once, and dish. When in the tu- 
reen, put in the' egg balls. To make the egg ball^, boil 
four eggs ten minutes, drop them in cold water, and take 
out the yolks and pound them in the mortar until they are 
reduced to a paste, then beat them with one t^spoonful 
of salt, a little pepper, and the whije of one egg. Make 
them into round balls the size of a walnut, roll them in 



i20 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

flour, and fry them brown in butter, being careful not to 
burn them. They are n&w ready for the soup. 



Oyster ^oup. ' 

Wash one quart of oysters, if they are solid, in one 
quart of cold water ; if not, one pint of water ; drain the 
water through a cullender into the soup-kettie ; set the 
kettle on the fire, and when the liquor comes to a bpil, 
skim it ; then add one quart of rich new milk ; just before 
it comes to a boil, turn in the oysters, and thicken with 
two spoonfuls of corn starch wet with milk; then stir 
in half a cup of butter, and season with pepper and 
salt. Let this boil up once, and serve immediately. Be 
very careful that they do not burn. A safe way is to boil 
the milk in a basin, which is set into another of water, 
and then turn it on the oysters just before removing it 
from the fire. • 



FISH. 

Baked Cod or Salmon. 

Take a fish weighing eight or nine pounds, wash and 
dry it ; then lay in the pan, and skewer to keep the head 
and tail together. Stuff the belly and eyes with a stuffing 
made of chopped pork, pounded biscuit, sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, onions, and butter. Sew up the belly, and 
bake two hours. Flour well and baste often. Make the 
gravy in the following manner: Stir into one«pint of boil- 
ing water two spoonfuls of flour wet with cold water, one 
spoonful- catsup, a pinch of ground rrtace, half a teaspoon 
of ground parsley, and a glass of red wine ; salt and 
pepper. " Let this boil, and when the fish is dished, stir 
the gravy that is in the pan into the made gravy. Add 
the wine the last thing. Garnish the fish with sliced 
lemop and the yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Skin and cut into small pieces a cod or haddock, and 
lay in a deep earthen dish. Dredge in about half a cup 
of flour, one spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cut about two spoonfuls of butter into small pieces and 
strew in ; cover the whole with new milk, and bake forty 
minutes. 121 



To Clean Poultry. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol ; tlien cut off 
the feet and tips of the wings, and the neck as far as it 
looks dark.; then, with the blade of a knife, take out all 
the pin-feathers ; now turn the skin of the neck back, and 
with the fore-finger and thumb draw out the crop and 
windpipe ; cut a slit in the lower part of the fowl, and 
draw out the intestines, being careful not to break the 
gall-bag, as it will spoil the flavor of the meat. It will 
be found near the upper part of the breast-bone and 
attached to the liver. Now wash thoroughly'in several 
waters, and drain. If the poultry is at all strong, let it 
stand in water several hours, with either charcoal or sal- 
eratus. Split the gizgard, and take out the inside and 
inner lining ; wash and put on to boil in two quarts of 
cold water (this is for the gravy). 

Moast Twrkey, 

Prepare as directed ; make a dressing with six pounded 
crackers, one teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of 
salt, one of sage, one of summer-savory, one of parsley, 
two eggs, butter the size of an egg, and cold water to 

122 



POULTRY. 123 

moisten ; stuff the turkey with this ; stuff the breast first, 
and the remainder put in the body. Now cross and tie the 
legs down tight ; run a skewer through the wings, fasten- 
ing them to the body ; fasten the neck under the body 
with a skewer, and tie all with a twine. Rub the turkey 
with salt, and spit it ; baste often with the drippings and 
flour, and occasionally with butter. About fifteen min- 
utes before dishing baste with butter, and dredge on a 
litde flour ; this will give it a frothy appearance. For 
eight pounds, allow one hour and three quarters, if roasted 
in the tin-kitchen ; if in the oven, one hour and a half, and 
fifteen minutes for every pound more or less. Serve with 
giblet gravy and cranberry sauce. i- 

To make the gravy : Boil the heart, gizzard'J liver, and 
neck in two quarts of water two hours ; thei* take them 
up and chop the gizzard and heart ; braid the liver and 
put them back again ; thicken with one spoonful of flour 
wet with eold water ; season with salt and pepper. Let 
this simmer one hour longer, and when you dish the 
turkey turn the drippings into this gravy ; boil up once, 
and send to the table. Make all the gravy for poultry in 
this manner, omitting the chopped gizzards in chicken 
gravy. 

Roast Chicken, 

Prepare, stuff, and truss the same as turkey. A paii of 
chickens, weighing each two and a half pounds, will re« 
quire an hour and a quarter to roast if in the tin-kitchen ; 
one hour if in the oven. 



124 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

JS,oast Goose. 

Prepare, as directed for poultry, and stuff the body with 
a dressing made in the following manner : Pare and boil 
potatoes ; mash them and mix with one fourth of an onion 
chopped fine, one spoonful of sage, one of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a small piece of butter. Truss, and 
roast (if it weighs ten pounds) one hour and three quar- 
ters if in the tin-kitchen, but if in the oven one hour and 
a half. Make the gravy as for turkey, and serve with 
apple-sauce. 

Skim off all the fat before putting the drippings in the 
gravy. , 

< Itoast Duck. 

Prepare the dressing as for goose, and roast before a 
hot fire forty minutes, or if in the oven have it very hot 
and' roast thirty minutes. Serve with either apple-sauce 
or currant jelly. Make gravy the same as for turkey. 

This time cooks the goose and ducks rare. 



Moast PartHdges. * 

Clean and truss; then lard and roast thirty minutes. 
Serve with currant jelly. To make the gravy : Put one 
spoonful of butter into a basin, and when it boils up stir 
in one spoonful of dry flour ; stir until a dark brown ; 
then pour on half a pint of boiling water. Season with 
salt, pepper, the partridge drippings, and a spoonful of 



POULTRY. 125 

currant jelly. Or serve with bread sauce, the rule for 
which yo.u will find under sauces. 

To lard a bird : Cut fat salt pork into thin, narrow 
slices, .and put one end of the slice through the eye of a 
larding needle. (You can obtain one at any kitchen fur- 
nishing store.) Now run the needle under the skin of 
the bird, and draw the pork half way through, having 
the pieces about an inch apart. 



\Boast Grouse. 

If you stuff them, make the dressing the same as for 
turkey ; but they are not often stuffed. Roast thirty min- 
utes, and serve with currant jelly. The g^avy made the 
same as before directed. 



Sioast Pigeons. 

Lard and roast the same as partridges. Make the 
gravy the same, with the addition of one teaspoonful of 
clove and H&lf a wineglass of claret. The pigeons must 
be young, or they will not be nice roasted. 

Small Birds. 

Woodcock, quail, snipe, and plover may be cooked in 
the same manner as partridges, allowing fifteen minutes to 
roast, and serve on toast. 



;ii@H. 



Roast Venison. 

If in winter, keep the venison three weeks after being 
killed ; but if in summer, ten or twelve days will bo suffi- 
cient. Draw the dry skin from a leg of venison, and cut 
off the shank ; roast half an hour, and then baste with salt, 
water, butter, and flour ; when it has roasted one hour 
and a half, baste with claret wine. If it is to be served 
on blazers, two hours will cook a leg weighing fifteen 
pounds, but if not, roast four hours. A saddle of venison 
is cooked in the same way, but will require only half as 
much time to roast. To make the gravy, put the shank 
in a basin with three quarts of cold water, a few cloves, 
one onion, half a pound of beef, salt, and pepper ; boil 
until there is about a quart of liquor, theh strain, and 
thicken with two spoonfuls of flour. When the^venison 
is dished add the drippings and one glass of claret wine. 
Boil up once and serve. Have the dishes on which the 
venison is served and the plates very Aoi. 

Venison steak and pie is cooked the same as beef. 

126 



;lt'i. 



stewed Beef with Mushrooms. 

Very nice. Take five pounds of beef (with as much 
tenderloin as possible), put in a pan, and set in the oven 
fifteen minutes ; then take the meat and put in a small 
porcelain kettle, and dredge with salt, pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of mace, half of clove, half of allspice, and two spoon- 
fuls of flour ; -now put in cold water enough to cover the 
meat, and stew slowly, keeping the steam in, three hours. 
Then put in half a tumbler of mushroom catsup and a glass 
of clardt wine, and simmer half an hour longer. Serve 
with plenty of gravy. 



FUlet of Beef with Mushrooms, 

Cut the fillet into slices about an inch thick, and lay 
them an hour in melted butter, having first sprinkled them 
with salt and pepper. At the end of that time place them 
over a brisk fire, and when well browned on one side turn 
them and brown on the other. Then lay them in a hot 
dish, and into the butter that remains in the pan put one 
spoonful of dry floiir, and brown ; when brown, add half 
a cup of boiling water, and half a wineglass of mushroom 

127 



128 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

catsup or Maderia wine. Pour the gravy over the fillet, 
and serve. 

Altmiode 'Beef. 

Takf' six pounds of the round of beef, cut deep gashes 
in it, and rub into it a handful of salt, a spoonful of cin- 
namon, half of clove, half of allspice, one of mace, one 
of pepper, and half a cup of flour. Fill the gashes w^ith 
dressing made as for turkey, with the addition of a little 
chopped onion. Sew the gashes together, and bind the 
beef with strips of cotton cloth. Lay the beef in a small 
kettle that can be covered tight ; put in a whole onion and 
cold water enough to cover the beef. Simmer three hours, 
and then make a thickening with four spoonfuls of flour, 
and stir in, and at the same time stir in two spoonfuls of 
either mushroom or walnut catsup, and simmer one hour 
longer. Some persons think that the addition of a- glass 
of claret or Madeira is an improvement ; but if is very 
nice without. 

BouiUi Beef. 

Take six pounds of lean beef and nib into it two spoon- 
fuls of salt, one half of pepper, one cup of flour ; then lay 
in a small kettle, which you can -cover tight. Cut into 
this one carrot, one small turnip, one onion, two parsnips, 
and cover with cold water. When it comes to a boil skim, 
then set back where it will simmer three houra; at the 
end of this time thicken with three spoonfiils of flour, and 
cut in three potatoes ; cover and simmer again one hour. 
If not seasoned enough, add more salt and pepper. 



ENTKBMETS. 12^ 

Bouilli Tongue. 

Boil and skin the tongue the day before, and prepare in 
the same way as bouilla beef, allowing it two hours to' 
simmer. 

Stewed Partridges. 

Place two partridges in a small kettle, and dredge with 
salt, pepper, flour, half a teaspoonful of mace, half of 
cloves, and cover with cold water. Cover tight and sim- 
mer two hours. Thicken with three spoonfuls of flour, 
and stir in two spoonfuls of catsup ; simmer one hour 
longer, and serve. Grouse and pigeons are stewed in .the 
same manner.. Garnish all the foregoing dishes with paste 
cakes. 



♦ 



Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 



Cut two chickens or old fowl into handsome pieces, and 
parboil them in just water enough to cover theni ; when 
they are tender, take them up and drain them dry. Cut a 
pound of salt pork inta slices, and fry them brown ; take 
up the pork, dredge the chicken with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and fry a dark brown in the pork fat. When the 
chicken is all fried, stir into the remaining pork fat half 
a cup of dry flour ; stir this until a dark brown, then pour 
on it one quart' of the liquor in which the chicken was 
boiled. (This liquor must be boiling.) Season with 
pepper and salt to taste. Lay the chicken in this gravy, 
and simmer twenty minutes. Garnish the dish with boiled 
rice. 

9 



130 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

White Fricassee of Chicken. 

Boil the chicken until tender, then cut it into small 
pieces. With the water in which it was boiled make a 
grayy, allowing half a cup of flour and two spoonfuls of 
butter to every quart of water. Season with pepper and 
salt ; turn in the chicken, and let it boil five minutes, and 
serve. ^ Garnish the dish with boiled rice. 



Chicken Ciirry. ' 

Make the same as white fricassee, with the addition of 
one teaspoonful of Indian curry to one pint of gravy, if 
it is liked strong, if not, half a teaspoonful.. Dissolve the 
curry in a little water, and stir in. Garnish the dish with 
rice. Veal and mutton can be curried in the same man- 



Chicken Pie. 

Prepare the chicken as for white fricassee ; turn into a 
deep earthen dish and cover with a paste, and bake one 
hour. 

Salad Dressing. 

One tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of cayenne pepper, and the yolks of 
three uncooked eggs. Put this mixture in an earthen dish 
and set on ice ; stir with a woo Jen or silver spoon until it 
is all well mixed, then add, very gradually, one bottle of 
table oil. Stir until very light ; then stir in half a cup of 



ENTREMETS. I3 1 

vinegar. One cup of whipped cream is a great addition to 
it ; stir in the last thing. Be sure that you stir evenly, and 
one -way all the time. This is enough -for four quarts of 
salad. 

'Broiled Chicken. 

Split down the back, wash, and wipe dry, and broil over 
clear coals twenty-five minutes, Season with pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil tender four good-sized chickens ; when oold, cut 
off the white meat, and chop rather coarse. Cut off the 
white part of the celery and chop in the same manner. 
To two quarts and a pint of the chicken allow one quart 
and a pint of the celery and a spoonful of salt. Mix well 
together, and then stir in part of the dressing. Shape the 
salad in a flat" dish, and pour over the remainder of the 
dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs, beets, and the 
tops of the celery. 

Lobster Salad, 

Lobster salad is made the same as chicken, using lob- 
ster instead of chicken, and lettuce instead of celery. 



Chicken JPatUes. 

Make the shell as for tarts, only larger, and prepare the 
chicken as for white fricassee, but cutting it smaller, and 



1^2 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

taking oi« all the bones. Fill the shells, and send to the 
table ■ immediately . 

Devilled Twekey. 

Take the legs (the first and second joints) of a roast 
turkey (if under done they are still better), and cut deep 
gashes in them, and into these gashes put a little mixed 
mustard, a little salt and cayenne pepper; lay on the 
gridiron until heated through ; then place on a very hot 
dish, and spread with butter. Serve immediately. Any 
kind of fowl may be served in the same way. 



JPoUed Pigeon. 

Clean, then stuff the pigeons with a dressing made as 
for turkey. Sew them up and truss ; put them in a kettle 
with water enough to cover them, and boil half an hour, 
then take up and drain them. Roll them in flour, and fry 
brown in pork fat.. Thicken the liquor in which they 
were boiled with flour, pepper, salt, cloves, mace", and 
catsup. Put the pigeons in this gravy and simmer two 
hours. Serve in the gravy. Add' half a glass of claret 
if you choose. 

Pigeon Pie, 

Prepare as for stewed pigeons, then turn into a deep 
earthen dish, and cover with paste. Bake forty-five min- 
utes. 



ENTREMETS. , I33 

Quail Fie. 

"Lay the birds in a deep earthen dish, and season with 
pepper, salt, and a little butter ; then drec'ge in flour. 
Nearly cover with cold water; cover with a paste, and 
bake one hour. 

Snipe Fie, 

Made the same as quail pie. 

Oyster Fie. 

Line a tin plate with plain paste, and then put in t vo 
dozen oysters, sprinkle with a little pepper, salt, and gra e 
on a little nutmeg. Strew in a little butter, and covai 
with- a rich paste. Bake twenty minutes, and serve im- 
mediately. 

Oyster Matties. 

Make the shell the same as for chicken patties. Put 
one quart of oysters in a basin with their own liquor, and 
let them boil three minutes. Season with a little salt, pep- 
per, and a heaping spoonful of butter ; fill the shells with 
this, and send to the table immediately. 

Oyster Roast. 

Cook the same as for patties, but serve on buttered 
toast. 



134 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Scalloped Oysters, 

Put a layer of oysters in an oval dish, and dredge in 
a little salt, pepper, and butter ; then a layer of rolled 
cracker, and another of oysters ; dredge the oysters as be- 
fore, and cover with cracker ; over the cracker gjrate a lit- 
tle nutmeg, and lay on small pieces of butter. Bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven ; add a glass of Madeira 
wine if you choose. Allow four crackers, two spoonfuls 
of butter, and one teaspoonful of pepper to one quart of 
oysters. Fill the dish to within an inch of the top. 

Fried Oysters. 

Drain the oysters on a sieve ; roll them in cracker 
crumbs, and. fry in boiling lard a light brown. Serve on 
brown-bread to^st. When you desire them fried in batter, 
make one as for apple fritters, and fry in bojling lard. 
Have the dishes very hot. 



BroUed Oysters. 

Prepare in crumbs as for frying, and broil a light brown. 
Examine oysters carefully to see that there are not pieces 
of shell among them. Some oysters need more salt than 
others. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Chop Jine two pounds of cold veal ; season with one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, one of 



ENTREMETS. *"'» .Z' I-IC 

butter. Mix with this two eggs and one fourfi^^ ,a cup 
water. Mix this thoroughly, and make into peir^apes 
about the size of an egg. Have two well-beaten eggS ; 
dip the croquettes into them, and fry a light brown in 
boiling lard. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Boil one cup of rice, as for a vegetable, and when cool, 
mix with four well-beaten eggs, one grated nutmeg, half a 
cup of sugar, and if not salt enough, a little more salt. 
Make into pear shapes about the size of. an egg, then dip 
in well-beaten egg, and fry in lard a light brown. 



Maca/roni in Cream, 

Wash a pint of piacaroni, and then put in a basin with 
cold milk ; set this into another basin with some water, 
and let it stand on the fire twenty minutes ; then take off, 
and when it gets cold, stir in one teaspoonful of salt and 
three well-beaten eggs ; turn this into a shallow dish, and 
bake twenty minutes.. • 

Queen Fritters. 

Into half a pint of boiling water stir half a cup of but- 
ter, and when this boils up, stir in one pint of flour ; let 
this cook about five minutes, beating well all the time ; 
then take off, and turn into an earthen dish. When this 
is cool, break five eggs into a dish, but do not beat them ; 
turn one third of the eggs into the dish with the pastej 



136 • THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

and beat 'all together with the hand. When this is well 
mixed, tiHrn in half of the remainder ; beat as before, and 
then add the remainder of the egg, and beat twenty min- 
utes. Drop this paste in teaspoonfuls into boiling lard, and 
fry until they crack open (this will be in about fifteen or 
twenty minutes). Serve with or without sugar and vine. 



Plain Fritters, 

Beat to a froth two eggs, and stir into this half a pint 
of m'lt, one teaspoonful of salt, two cups of flour; beat 
this lightly, and drop by teaspoonfuls into boiling lard, 
and fry a light brown. 

Apple Fritters. 

Make the batter as for plain fritters. Pare and core 
nice tart apples ; cut them in thin slices, dip them in the 
batter, and fry brown. 

Pancakes. 

Beat to a froth three eggs ; stir into this half a pint ol 
milk, one teaspoonful of salt, and three tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Heat the frying-pan, and grease well with butter ; 
turn one third of the batter into it, and fry a light brown 
on one side, shaking the pan frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. When brown on one side, turn and brown the other. 
When done, spread with jelly, fold, and serve immediate- 
ly. You can omit the jelly, and spread with sugar, if you 
choose. 



Baltimore Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one of milk, one of chopped suet, 
one of chopped raisins, three and a half of flour, one tea-, 
spoonful of saleratus, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, one of mace, one of allspice, and one 
grated nutmeg. Beat the molasses, "suet, raisins, and spice 
together ; then stir in the milk, in which dissolve the salera- 
tus, then the flour. Steam five hours or more. You can- 
not steam it too much. This pudding is nicer the second ■ 
day than the first. Serve with wine sauce. 

Wedding Fudding, 

One cup of clear salt pork chopped fine, one of chopped 
raisins, two of sugar, three and a half of flour, two of 
milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one of cloves, one of 
cinnamon. Beat together the pork, sugar, raisins, and 
spice, then add the milk, in which dissolve the saleratus, 
and then the floun Steam four hours or more. Servo 
with rich wine sauce. 



137 



I3S THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Plum Pudding. 

One quart of bread (bakers' is the best), one quart 
of milk, six eggs, one cup of brown sugar, one of mo- 
lasses, one of suet, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
clove, allspice, mace,, and nutmeg, one cup of currants, 
one of raisins, one quarter of a pound of citron. Boil the 
milk, and pour on the bread ; let this stand one hour ; then 
stir into it the sugar, spice, suet, raisins, and currants ; 
beat the eggs to a froth, and stir in. Have ready a deep 
earthen pot well buttered, and turn the mixture into it, and 
bake four hours, or steam five. Sei-ve with rich wine 
sauce. 

Christmas Pudding. 

Ten crackers, one quart of milk, five eggs, one pint of 
sugar, one and a half cups of chopped suet, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of brandy, one spoonful of salt, one 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls 
of cloves, two of allspice, two of mace, two of currants,' 
two of raisiijs, and a quarter of a pound of citron. Break 
the crackers up and soak in the milk over night. (Set in 
a cool place where it will not sour.) In the morning mix 
with it the sugar, molasses, suet, salt, spice, btandy, and 
fruit. Boil or steam five hours. Serve with a rich wine 
sauce. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Butter a deep pudding-dish ; cut a small brick loaf into 
thin slices, and butter them ; lay a layer of them in the 



PUDDINGS. • 139 

dish, and then Sprinkle with raisins, currants, and thin 
slices of citron, then another layer qf bread, and so on, un- 
til the bread is all used ; cover with a custard made with 
nine eggs, one cup of sugar, three pints of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, and one nutmeg. Let this stand three 
hours, and then bake one hour aud a half in a moderate 
oven. Serve with a rich wine sauce. 

Snow Pudding. 

Soak half a box of Cox's sparkling gelatine in half a 
cup of cold water two hours ; pouf on this nearly a pint 
of boiling- water, stir until the gelatine is all dissolved, 
an(f then stir in two cups of sugar and the juice of two large 
lemons ; stir this a few minutes, and then add the whites 
of six eggs. Now set the basin into another of ice-water, 
being careful not to let it come over the basin in which the 
mixture is. Beat this until it is white and stiff; turn into 
the dish in which it is to be served, and set on the ice 
until the last moment. 

Sauce for Snow Pudding. 

Beat together the yolks of six eggs and half a cup of 
sugar ; add to this two spoonfuls milk and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Put one pint of milk into a small tin pail ; set 
the pail into a basin of boiling water (be careful that it 
does not boil into the milk) ; let this come to a boil, and 
then stir in the eggs. Stir this two minutes, and then 
take off and set in ice-water ; stir occasionally until cool. 
Have it ice cold and flavor with vanilla. 



l/jO THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 

One quarfrof milk, one teaspoonful of butter, the yolks 
and the whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cocoa- 
nut and milk of cocoanut. Bore a hole in the cocoanut and 
drain out the milk ; than crack the nut and take from the 
shell ; pare off the brown skin and grate. Butter a pud- 
ding-dish and lay the cocoanut in it, then pour over it the 
custard. (Scald the milk before making the custard.) 
Bake in a moderate oven until it is firm in the centre, 
which you can tell by cutting with the handle of a tea- 
spoon. Frost immediately upon taking from the oven, 
with the whites of two eggs and one cup of sugar beaten 
to a stiff froth. 



Cocoanut Pudding, No. 2. 

Six eggs, one cup of sugar, one quart of milk, one 
cocoanut, milk of cocoanut. Prepare the cocoanut as for 
No. I. Beat the eggs and sugar to a froth, stir in the 
milk and then the cocoanut ; butter a pudding-dish, turn 
in the mixture, and bake twenty or thirty minutes. When 
the fresh cocoanut is not in the market, use one cup of the 
desiccated, cocoanut and the juice of one fresh lemon. 

Ginger Pudding. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of sal« 
eratus, two of cream of. tartar, four eggs. Beat the sugar 



PUDDINGS. 141 

and butter to a cream, then stir in the eggs, which are 
well beaten ; then the milk, and l^st the flour, in which 
the saleratus,. ginger, and cream of tartar are Veil mixed. 
Bake in a pudding-dish forty-five minutes. Serve with 
lemon or vinegar sauce. 



Beverly Pudding. 

Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized potatoes ; pour 

over them one quart of boiling milk ; stir well, and let it 

get cold ; then add to it the yolks of five eggs and the 

whites of three, beaten with one large cup of sugar, the 

grated rind and juice of two lemons. Bake thirty minutes, 

and then frost with the whites of two eggs and one cup of 

sugar beaten to a stiflT froth ; set back in the oven until it 

is a delicate brown, then set away to cool. To be eaten 

ice cold. 

* 

Liemon Pudding. 

One quart of milk, a piece of batterthe size of an q^^, 
one heaping cup of sugar, one cup of ground rice, the 
rind and juice of two lemons, six eggs. Take one cup of 
mitk from the quart and put the remainder in a tin pail ; 
set the pail into* a basin of boiling water. Wet the rice 
with the cup of cold milk, and when the milk begins to boil, 
stir it into it with one teaspoonful of salt ; let this boil ten 
minutes, then take off and let it get blood warm. Beat 
the eggs, sugar, and lemon together, and stir into tne 
mixture. Bake in a buttered dish half an hour. To bo 
eaten cold. 



142 THE APPLBDORK COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Pudding, No, 2. 

One cup of flour, butter the size of a small egg, three 
pints of milk, eight eggs, the grated rind of four and the 
juice of two lemonsr Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the beaten eggs, and stir all into the boiling milk ; set 
this away to cool, and when cold, add the lemon and three 
cups of sugar. Line the pudding-dish with paste, or not, 
as you choose. Bake thirty-five or forty minutes. 

Com Pudding. 

Put one quart of popped corn in a pudding-dish ; stir 
into one quart of milk two teaspoonfuls of salt, and turn 
the milk on the corn. Bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

BoUed Cherry Pudding, 

One brick loaf soaked until soft in one pint of new milk ; 
then add three eggs well beaten, and one quart of ripe 
cherries. Boil two hours and a half. Serve with either 
wine or vinegar sauce. 

Baked Whortleberry Pudding, 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, one of 
sour milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, four 
cupg of berries. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream ; 
then add the eggs, which have been well beaten, then 
the milk, in which the saleratus is dissolved, and lastly, 



PUDDINGS. 143 

the berries. Bake one hour, and serve with a rich wine 
sauce. 

Appledore Pudding. 

Butter a pudding-dish and line it with stale cake ; then 
fill it within three inches of the top with blueberries, 
blackberries, or currants. To one quart of blueberries 
or blackberries allow half a cup of sugar, if currants al- 
low one cupful. Cover tlie whole with cake, and wet with, 
half a tumbler of wine. Bake half an hour, and frost with 
the whites of two eggs and one cup of sugar beaten to a 
stiff froth ; set back in the oven, and bake a light brown. 
To be eaten without sauce. 

Bird's N^est Pudding. 

Pare and core six large apples (being careful not to break 
them). Make a sirup of one quart of water and one cup 
of sugar ; simmer the apples in this until they are tender, 
but not so tender but that they will keep their shape ; lay 
them in a pudding-dish, and cover with a custard made 
with one quart of milk, five eggs, and three spoonfuls of 
sugar. Bake until the custard is firm. May be eaten eitl er 
cold or hot, and without sauce. 

Sice Meringue. 

Two cups of boiled rice, one quart of milk, the yolks 
of six eggs and the whites of four, two spoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of the extract 
of lemon. Bake thirty-five minutes ; then frost with the 



144 "^^^ APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

whites of two eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one ta- 
blespoonful of corn starch, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake a light brown, and serve hot without 
sauce. 

Pavilion Pudding. 

Lay in a mould alternate layers of fruit and silver cake. 
(Cut the slices about two inches thick.) Ma^e a custard 
with six eggs, one quart of milk, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Pour this over the cake, and let it stand in a cool 
jjlace two hours ; then steam three hours. Serve with a 
rich sauce. 

Frozen Pudding. 

Place in a mould slices of light cake, and between them 
any kind of preserves ; when the mould is nearly full, cover 
with cold soft custard. (Dissolve a spoonful of gelatine 
in the custard when you make it.) Cover the mould and 
pack in a box of salt and ice, as you would ice cream. 
Let this stand in the salt and ice five hours. When you 
dish it dip the mould in a pail of hot water for one instant, 
wipe the mould, take off the cover, and turn the pudding 
out. .Serve immediately. Be sure that the cover of the 
mould is so tight that it will not admit one drop of water. 
It should be made of block tin. 



Fruit Pudding, 

Take one quart of cake crumbs and mix with a custard 
made of a pint and a half of milk, four eggs, one spoon 



PUDDINGS. 145 

fill of sugar, two spoonfuls of wine, and a little nutmeg ; 
let this stand half an hour, and then stir in half a cup of 
currants, one cup of raisins, and a few strips of citron. 
Butter a pudding-dish, and turn in this mixture. Bake 
one hour. Serve with a rich wine sauce. 



Almond Pudding. 

Pound to a paste one pint of blanchgd almonds. Boil 
one quart of milk, and into it, while boiling, stir in the al- 
monds and two spoonfuls of flour, mixed with cold milk, 
one teaspoonful of salt ; cook this ten minutes. Let this 
get cool, and add five well-beaten eggs and half a tea- 
spoonful of bitter almond, with one cup of sugar. Bake 
thirty minutes. Serve cold or hot. 

Stmderland Pudding. 

Beat to a froth six eggs. Mix gradually one quart of 
milk with one cup of flour ; stir into this the eggs and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Bake twenty minutes in little earthen 
cups, such as you bake drop cakes in. Serve immediate- 
ly with rich sauce. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

Butter a pudding-dish, and line the sides with slices of 

stale sponge cake. Pare and cut a large pineapple into 

thin slices ; place a layer of it in the bottom of the dish, 

and sprinkle with sugar, then another layer, and so On, 

10 



146 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

• 

until the dish is nearly full ; then pour over the whole two 
thirds of a cup of cold water, and cover the whde with 
slices of cake which have been dipped in cold water. 
Cover the whole with a plate, and bake slowly two hours. 
Serve with sugar and cream. (Use in all one cup of 
sugar.) Bread may be used instead of cake. 



Omelet Souffle. 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs and two spoonfuls 
of sugar ; then beat to a froth the whites of eight eggs and 
stir into the yolks and sugar. Flavor with half a teaspoon- 
&1 of bitter almond. Turn into a buttered dish and bake 
twelve minutes. Serve instantly. 



FIES. 

Fwff Paste. 

Two cups of butter, one quart of flour, one tablespoon« 
fill of salt, one of powdered sugar. Wash the butter in 
cold water until it is light and waxy ; divide into two parts, 
and set in the ice chest one hour. Mix the sugar and salt 
with the dry flour, and then wet with ice-water enough 
to make a soft paste (mix with a knife, and use the hands 
as little as possible) ; roll this on the board with the roll- 
ing-pin, about half an inch thick ; now cut one .of the 
cakes of washed butter into thin slices, and spread on 
the paste ; dredge with flour and fold up ; then pound 
lightly with the pin, and then roll out as before, and 
spread the second cake of butter the same as the first ; 
dredge and fold again ; now roll thin as before, and then 
roll up and place on a plate, and set in the ice chest one 
or two hours. When ready to cover the pie, cut just 
enough from the end of the roll to cover the pie ; sprinkle 
the board with a very little flour, place the paste upon it, 
and flour the rolling-pin with the hand; now roW. foom 
you, and towards your left hand ; roll very lightly until the 
right size ; then cover and bake immediately. Quick- 
ness and elasticity are very important, also the washing 

147 



148 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

of the butter. Use as little flour as possible in rolling the 
paste, and always make it in a cool room. It is a mistake 
to think the paste must be hard to be good ; always have 
it soft enough to roll easily. 



Green Apple Pies, 

Pare, quarter, core, afid stew nice tart apples in water 
enough to prevent them from burning. When tender, 
sweeten very sweet with white sugar, fill the pje-plate, 
which has been lined and edged with paste, grate on a 
little nutmeg, cover and bake forty-five minutes. 



Dried Apple Pies. 

Pick and wash one quart of dried apples, and put in a 
porcelain kettle with two quarts of water and two of 
cider ; let this stand over night, and in the morning place 
on the fire and simmer three hours ; th^n lay in (but do 
not stir) two quarts of sugar, and simmer two hours 
longer ; then turn into a stone pot, and put away for- use. 
Make the pies the same as green apple. 

Peiich Pies. 

Line the plate with aplain paste, and lay in the plate five 
peaches, which just press between the fingers, but do not 
take out the stones, as they flavor the pie ; now fill the 
plate with peaches which have been cut in two and the 
stones taken out. Sift over this a small cup of sugar, and 



PIES. 149 

then add two spoonfuls of water. Cover and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. Do not peel the peaches ; they 
are very much better not to be. 



Plum Pies. 

Made the same as peach. 

Mince Pies. 

Two pounds of tender lean beef ; chop it while raw very 
fine ; take one cupful of chopped suet, tw.o pint bowlfuls of 
chopped applfe, one of stonec^aisins, half a bowlful of cur- 
rants, half a pound of citron, one bowlful of sugar, one half 
oPmolasses, two tablespoonfuls of mace, two of cinnamon, 
one of allspice, one of cloves, four grated nutmegs, three ta- 
blespoonfuls of salt. Mix all this thoroughly with the hands, 
and then add one quart of cider. Put the mixture in a 
large earthen pan, and place over a kettle of boiling water 
and scald ; if there is not sugar and spice enough, season 
to taste. When scalded, stir in one pint of wine and half 
a pint of brandy. Do not let any one kind of spice pre- 
dominate. If not .moist enough, use more cider. Prepare 
the plates as for apple pies, and spread in a cupful of the 
mince meat and cover with a rich puff paste. Bake one 
hour. 

Lemon Pies, 

Line a medium-sized plate with plain paste, and rim 
with three thicknesses of puff paste ; set the plate in a cool 



'5° THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

place until the filling is ready; Beat to a froth bne teacup 
of sugar, the rind and juice of one lemon, and the yolks 
of two eggs ; then beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, and stir in with one spoonful of milk ; turn this 
.into the plate which you have prepared, and bake in a 
moderate oven forty-five mihutes. Or you may line a deep 
plate with plain paste, as for squash pies, and turn the mix- 
ture into it, and bake forty minutes. This is very-nice if 
the directions are exactly followed. 

Letiion Fies, No. 2. . 

The juice of .two and the *nd of three lejhons, one cup 
of butter, one and a half of sugar, eight eggs. Be^t the 
sugar, butter, lemons, and the yolks of the eggs togethet ; 
then add the whites beaten to #stift' froth. Bake in deep 
plates, line with plain paste, fifty minutes, in a moderate 
oven. 

Marlborough Fies. 

Steam until Sl&nder six good-Sized tart apples, and then 
run them through the cullender; stir in, while they are 
hot, one spoonful of butter ; when cool, stir in the yolks 
of three eggs, the rind and juice of one lemon, and one 
teacup of sugar, which have been "beaten together. Bake 
in a moderate oven forty minutes, in a deep plate, as 
squash pies. Cut and bake little cakes of puff paste, and 
when the pie is cold, garnish it with them. 



l^ir®®IH© S^10J€ES- 



Mich Wine Sauce, 

Beat to a cream half a cup of butter, and very gradu- 
ally beat in one cup of sugar, one spoonful of corn starch, 
one wineglass of wine, and the white of one egg. When 
this is a perfect froth, stir in one third of a cup of boiling 
water ; set this in warm water for two minutes, stirring 
aU the while, and then g,erve. 

Flain Wine Sauce. 

Put into a sauce-pan one cup of sugar and one cu||mf 
water ; grate into this half a nutmeg, and put on the fife 
to simmer ; let it simmer half an hour, ^d then add one 
glass of wine ; simmer ten minutes longer, and serve. 

Lemon Sauce. • 

Beat to a froth one spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one spoonful of com starch, and two eggs. When very 
smooth and light, add one cup of boiling' water. Set the 
basin into boiling water, and stir five minutes. Season 
with lemon, and serve. 

i5» 



153 THB APPLEDORB COOK BOOK. 

> Vinegar Sauce. 

One cup of boiling water, one of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one of vinegar, anji a little nutmeg. Mix the 
flour with a little cold water, and stir into the boiling sugar 
and water ; then stir in the vinegar and nutmeg, and boil 
twenty minutes. Wine sauce is very good made in this 
manner, using wine instead of vinegar. Season with a 
little salt. 



©ISH^i FOm THE SS©]^. 

Beef Tea. 

Cut half a pound o£ lean beef into very small pieces ; 
do not Have a g^rain of fat on it, and put into a bottle that 
has a large opening (an olive or horseradish bottle will be 
nice) ; put in half a cup of cold water, and cork light; set 
this in a basin of cold water, and place on the fire where 
it will come to a boilings point, but not boil ; keep it at 
this temperature for two hours, then strain, and season 
with salt. 

Chicken Broth, 

Put the bones and about one pound of the lean meat 
of chicken into a saupe-pan with three pints of water. 
When it comes to.a boil, skim well. Simmer three hours, 
and strain and salt. If the patient can bear it, a little 
rice or tapioca boiled with it is an improvement. 



Oatmeal Gruel. 

Into one quart of boiling water, sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of oatmeal ; let this boil forty minutes ; season 

=153 



154 THE APPLEDORE pOOK BOOK. 

with salt, strain, and serve. If sugar, milk, or cream is 
wished, it may be added. 



Itidian Meal Gruel. 

One quart of boiling water ; stir into this one spoonful 
of flour and two of Indian meal, mixed with a little cold 
water. Boil thirty minutes. Season with sajt, and strain. 
Use sugar and cream if you choose. If flour is not liked, 
use another spoonful of meal instead. 

Flv/ni Porridge, 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir two spoonfuls of 
flour mixed with cold milk ; put in a handful of raisins 
and a little grated nutmeg. Boil twenty minutes. Season 
with salt, and strain. 

Com Tea. 

Brown, and pound in a mortar, one cup of sweet dry 
corn ; p'our on this two cups of boiling water, and steep 
fifteen minutes. This is very light and nutritious, and can 
be taken where the patient is very weat. 

Cream Toast. 

Heat half a cup of cream, and season with salt. Toast 
two slices of bread a light brown, and pour the cream 
over it. Senre inunediately. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 155 

Wine Whey. 

Let one cup of new milk come to a boil, and then stir 
in half a wineglass of sherry wine. Boil a moment, and 
strain. 

Vinegar Whey. 

Boil one cup of milk, and stir in one spoonful of vine- 
gar ; if this does not make it "whey, stir in a little more ; 
when it curdles, strain. 



Sour MUk Whey. 

To one cup of boiling sweet milk, add one cup of sour 
milk, and strain. 

A good Drink for the I/wu^gs. 

Wash clean a few pieces of Irish moss ; put it in a 
pitcher, and pour over it two cups of boiling water. Set 
where it will keep at the boiling point, but not boil for 
two hours. Strain, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon. Sweeten • to taste. If the patient cannot take 
lemon, flavor with wine, vanilla, or nutmeg. 

Another Drink, 

Beat lightly one egg and one spoonful of sugar. Stir 
'into this one cup of new milk, half a .wineglass of wine, 
and a little nutmeg. This is nice without the wine. 



^5^ . THE APPLKDORE COOK BOOK. 



Another Drink. 



Upon one teaspoonful of slippery-elm, pour one cup of 
boiling water, strain, and season as Irish moss. 



Zicmonade. 

The juice of one lemon and one spoonful of sugar. 
Pour on this one cup of boiling water, and set away to 
cool. . 

Another 'Beef Tea, 

Cut a pound of lean beef (the roundj is the best) into 
dice. Put into a sauce-pan, with a teaspoonful of salt, 
one of flour, and one fourth of pepper. Pour on this a 
large pint of cold water. Let it stand an hour or two, 
then put on the fire ; bring slowly to a boil, and boil 
slowly an hour. If it has boiled away too much, add a 
little hot water ; but this rather hurts it. Skim off care- 
fully every particle of fat. This tea is more palatable 
than the other, and can be taken by those not extremely 
sick. 

Sack Posset, 

Pound one Boston cracker, or one soda biscuit Put it 
in a pint of cold milk ; set on the fire, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Beat together one egg, one wineglass of wine, 
a little sugar, salt, and nutmeg. Turn this into the sim- 
mering milk, stirring constantly ; boil up once, and take 
from the fire immediately. 



Charlotte Russe. 

Cut stale sponge cake into slices about half an inch 
thick, and line three moulds with it, having a space of 
half an inch between each slice ; set the moulds where 
they will not be disturbed until the filling is ready. Now 
take a deep tin pan and fill about one third full of either 
snow or pounded ice, and into this set another pan thai 
wiU hold at least four quarts. Into a deep bowl or pail, 
put one pint and a half of cream (if the cream is i&ick 
take one pint of cream and half a pint of milk), whip the 
cream to a froth, and when the bowl is full, skim the froth 
into the pan which is setting on the ice ; keep on doing 
this until the cream is all froth ; now with the spoon draw 
the froth to one side, and you shajl find that there is some 
of the cream which has gone back to milk \ turn this into 
the bowl again, and whip as before ; when the cream is all 
whipped, stir into it two thirds of a cup of powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, and half a box of gela- 
tine, which has been soaked in cold water, enough to 
cover it, one hour, and then dissolved in boiling water 
enough to dissolve it, which will be nearly half a cupful ; 
stir all this from the bottom of the pan until It begins to 
grow stifiT; then fill the moulds, and set them on the ice 
in the pan for one hour, or until they are sent to the table. 

^57 



158 



THE APPLEDOKE COOK BOOK. 



|B 



When ready to dish them, just loosen them at the sides, 
and turn out on a flat dish. Have the cream ice cold 
when you begin to whip it ; it is a good plan to. put a 
lump of ice into the cream while you are whipping it. 

The directions being so long, may make it appear to be 
a long and hard process ; but it is not so, for it is easily 
and quickly made.' The whip-churn you can get niade 
at your tinman's for a trifle, and as it will be found neces- 
sary to have one to make many of these dishes, I give 
below directions for making it. 

A, is a hollow cylinder of tin, perforated in 
the bottom and upon the sides, as repre- 
sented above. 

B, handle. 

C, dash of tin, and perforated like the bot- 
9^ torn of the cylinder. 

D, cover, fitting close upon the upper end 
of the cylinder. Have the cylinder three 
inches in diameter, and ten inches in 
height : the dash two and three-quarters 
inches in diameter, and the handle thir- 
tee* inches long. To be made of block 
tin. With care this will last in a private 
family fifty years. 

Note. — The whip-churn, for making Charlotte Russe and 
creams, can be procured at Sweetser & Clark's, Market Street, 
Portsmouth, N. H., and at F. A. Walker & Co.'s, 83 & 85 Corn- 
hill, and Nos. 6 & 8 Brattle Street, Boston, Mass. 



Holland Cream. 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake 
and vanilla. Flavor with half a wineglass of Holland 
gin. Shape in blanc-mange moulds. 



DESSERTS. 159 

Lemon Creams. 

The grated rind of one and the juice of two lemons, a 
pint of water, one pint of sugar, six eggs. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and the lemon together, then add the 
water ; let this stand one hour ; then stir in the pint of 
sugar and the yolks of the six eggs, and place over a gen- 
tle fire, until it thickens. Siir continually. When it is 
thick, set one side until it is cool enough to turn into 
glasses ; then fill the glasses, and set where they will get 
very cold^ 

Velvet Cream. 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake 
and vanilla, and flavoring with half a wineglass of wine. 
Shape in blanc-mange moulds. 

Italian Cream. 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the cake, 
and adding five well-beaten eggs. Shape in blanc-mange 
moulds. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Soak one box of gelatine in cold water enough to cover 
it one hour. Put one quart of rich milk into a tin pail, 
and set in a kettle with hot water to boil. ■ Scrape two 
ounces of French chocolate, and mix with eight spoon- 
fuls of sugar ; wet this with two spoonfiils of the boil- 
ing milk, and rub with the bowl of the spoon until a. 



l6o THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. . 

smooth paste, then stir into the boiling milk ; now stii 
in the gelatine, and then stir in the yolks of ten well- 
beaten eggs ; stir three minutes, take off and strain ; set in 
a pan of ice water ; stir for ten minutes, then add two 
spoonfuls of vanilla, and put into blanc-mange moulds ; 
set away on the ice for three hours. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Blanc-mange made with Gelatine, 

Soak a box of gelatine in cpld water enough- to cover 
it one hour. Put three .pints of milk in a tin pail, and 
set in a kettle with hot water ; when the milk comes to a 
boil, stir in the gelatine and two spoonfuls of sugar. Fla- 
vor with vanilla or lemon, strain into blanc-mange moulds, 
and when cool, set on ice to harden. Make this, if possi- 
ble, j^e day before it is to be used. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Moss Blanc-mange. 

Free from pebbles and seaweed, and wasB in several 
waters one cup of Irish moss (get that that is not pressed) ; 
let it soak in cold, water one hour, then tie up in a mus- 
lin bag, ^nd put in a tin pail with three quarts of new milk. 
Set the pail in a kettle with hot water, and boil thirty 
minutes ; after it comes to a boil, stirring occasionally. 
Press the bag between the side of the pail and the spoon, 
to get out all the gluten ; stir in a teaspoonful of salt, half 
a cup of sugar, and flavor with anything you please. 
Turn into blanc-mange moulds, and set away to cool. 
Serve with sugac and cream. This is the best kind of 

« 

blanc-mange. 



DESSERTS. l6l 

Blanc-mange in Wine Sauce. 

Put one quart of new milk into a basin, and set the 
basin in another with hot water. When the milk comes 
to a boil, stir in four spoonfuls of corn starch, mixed with 
half a cup of milk and one teaspoon of salt ; stir and 
boil for ten minutes, and then turn into a blanc-mange 
mould. Set away to cool. When time to serve, turn into 
a deep dessert-dish, and pour over it the following sauce : 
Beat to a cream the yolks of two eggs, one heaping cup 
of sugar, and a wineglass of wine ; then stir in the whites 
of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Serve immediately. 
Always dip the moulds in cold water before filling them 
with blanc-mange or cream. 

Wine Jelly. * 

Soak one box of gelatine in half a pint of cold water 
two hours ; then pour on a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and stir untH the gelatine is all dissolved, but do not set 
near the fire; now add the juice of two lemons, and 
sweeten to your taste. Wring a piece of thin muslin out 
of hot water, and lay in a fine stiver ; strain the jelly 
through this (after adding one pint of wine to it). Make 
the day before using. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Make the same as wine jelly, using the juice of eight 
lemons, and one pint more water instead- of the wine. 
This is very handsome when you make half of each kind, 
II 



l62 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

and cut it up in small squares, and fill wineglasses with 
it. Put half of each kind on a plate. Wine jelly may 
be colored a bright pink by using cochineal ; yellow, by 
using tincture of saffron, and green, by using the juice of 
spinage ; but I would not recommend the use of any col- 
oring. 

Soft Custard. 

Put one quart of new milk into a tin pail, and set the 
pail into a kettle with boiling water, and sweeten with 
one cup of sugar. Beat well the yolks of ten, and the 
whites of four eggs, and mix with them half a cup of cold 
milk. When the milk comes to a boil, strain the eggs 
into it and stir two minutes ; then take off and turn into 
a pitcher ; set the pitcher ifi*ice water, and stir until cool. 
Flavor with vanilla. Serve in glasses. 

Almond Custard. 

Almond custard made in the same way, usihg the yolks 
of fourteen eggs and no whites, and flavor with one tea 
epoonfiil of bitter almond. 

Snowball Custard, 

Snowball custards are made the same as soft. Beat 
the whites of six eggs to a stiflT froth, and drop into clear 
boiling water; boil two minutes, and skim out; let it 
drain, and when the custard is put in glasses heap this on 
top. They make the dish look very handsome. 



DESSERTS. 163 

Chocolate Custard. 

Set one quart of milk on to boil as before directed. 
Scrape with a knife one ounce of nice chocolate, and mix 
with one heaping cup of sugar ; wet this with two spoon- 
fuls of boiling milk ; work this into a paSte with the' back 
of the spoon, and stir into the boiling milk, and then stir 
in six well-beaten eggs ; stir three minutes, and then 
strain. Set in cold water and stir occasionally, until cold, 
then stir in two teaspoons of vanilla. Serve in glasses. 

Coffee Custard. 

Tie one cup of ground coffee in a piece of muslin, and 
put on to boil with one quarFbf milk ; let it boil ten min- 
utes after the milk comes to a boil ; then take out and stir 
in one heaping cup of sugar, and the whites of four and 
the yolks of eight eggs ; stir two minutes and strain ; set 
in cold water, and stir occasionally until cool. Serve in 
glass. All%ustards are improved by a very little salt. 

Steamed Custa/rds. 4|ll 

Make the same as for baked, and steam until they are 
firm in the centre. 

Baked Custards. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, two thirds of a cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt Fill the cups, and g#ate 



164 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

over them a little nutmeg ; then place in a deep pan, with 
warm water. Bake in a moderate oven until they are 
firna in the centre. 



Floating Island. 

Make the same as snowball custard, and serve in a deep 
glass dish, with the whites of the eggs heaped in the 
centre. 

Apple Snow, 

Pare, slice, add quarter ten good-sized tart apples; 
steam them until tender, and then run them through the 
cullender, and set where they will get ice cold. When 
cold, add the grated rind and the juice of two lemons, 
one cup of sugar, and the whites of six eggs. Beat all to 
a froth, and serve immediately in a deep glass dish. 



Tipsy Parson. 

Stick a large square of sponge cake full of blanched 
almonds, and then lay it in a deep glass dish ; pour over 
it a tumDler of sherry, and when the wine has all soaked 
into the cake, fill the dish half full of soft custard. 



Apple Float. 

Fill a deep glass dish half full of soft custard, and then 
heapjiup with apple snow. (Make the custard with the 
yolks of the eggs.) 



DESSERTS. 165 



Trifle. 



Cut stale cake jnto slices, and spread preserves between 
them ; lay in a deep glass dish, and heap the dish full of 
whipped cream. 

Wine Whips. 

Into a pint of cream, stir half a cup of sugar, half a 
glass of wine, and a lump of ice ; whip to a froth, and 
fill the glasses. 

Fruit Whips. 

Fill the glasses one third full of any kind of preserved 
berries or jelly, and then fill up with whipped cream. 



Mock Sherbet. 

Fill a six quart pan with new-fallen snow ; gNite the 
rind and squeeze the juice of six lemons into it, and then 
stir in four cups of sugar. Serve immediately. This can 
also be made with currant jelly. 

Cream Calces. 

One pint of boiling water, one cup of butter, one quart 
of flour, and the yolks of eight and the whites of ten 
eggs. Put the water and butter in a flat sauce-pan, and 
when it boils up, stir in all the flour at once ; keep over 
the fire, and beat well for five minutes ; then when^j^cold 
break the eggs into a bowl, but do not beat ; turn about 



l66 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

three at a time on the paste, and beat all together half an 
hour. When light, drop on tin sheets. Have half a 
spoonful in a cake, and drop about two inches apart 
Bake forty minutes in a rather quick oven. When baked, 
cut open at the sides with a small sharp-pointed knife, 
and fill with a cream made as for cream pies. These are 
very nice glazed with chocolate and filled with raspberry 
or strawberry preserves. 



Sponge Drops. 

Beat to a froth three eggs and one teacup of sugar ; stii 
into this one heaping coffee cup of flour, in which one 
leaspoonful of cream of tartar and half of saleratus are 
thoroughly mixed. Flavor with lemon. Butter tin sheets 
with washed butter (lard or salt butter will make them 
taste bad), and drop in teaspoonfuls about three inches ' 
apart. Bake instantly in a very quick oven. Watch very 
closely, as they will burn easily. Serve with ice cream. 



Kisses. 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, and beat 
into them, very gradually, two teacups of 'powdered sugar 
and two tablespoonfials of corn starch. Flavor with lemon. 
Butter tin sheets with washed butter, and then cover with 
letter paper ; drop on this the mixture in teaspoonfuls, and 
about two inches apart. Bake fifteen minutes in a warm 
oven, but be sure that it is not warm enough to brown them. 



DESSERTS. 167 

After they are taken out let them stand until cold before 
removing them from the paper. 



Cocoanut Drops. 

Beat to a froth the whites of two eggs, and add g^adu* 
ally one small cup of -sugar, and one cup of prepared 
cocoanut, and one spoonful of flour. Prepare the tin sheets 
as for kisses, and bake five minutes in a quick oven. 

• Cheese Cakes. 

Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and 
cut into two equal parts ; on one part grate cheese about 
half an inch thick ; sprinkle with water, and lay the other 
part over it ; roll the pin lightly over this and cut into strips 
about two inches wide and four long ; lay on tin sheets, 
and bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Tarts. 

Roll puff paste about an inch and a half thick ; cut with 
a large cutter, and then with a smaller cutter ; cut out the 
centre, leaving the rim about an inch wide. When you 
have cut out all you want, take the pieces which you cut 
from the centre, and roll about one quarter of an inch 
thick ; cut this out with a large cutter, and wet ^ith cold 
water ; lay the rims on these, and bake in a quick oven 
about twenty-five minutes. When cold, jill with any kind 
of jam or jelly. 



l68 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Directions for Freezing. 

Set the freezer in the centre of the tub ; be sure that 
everything is in place, or it will not work when you get 
it packed. Have the ice chopped fine, and put in a layer 
about three inches deep, then a layer of coarse salt about 
an nch deep, and then the ice, and so on, until the tub 
is full, having the ice last. Use about one third salt, and 
two thirds ice. It must be packed very^olid. After the 
cream has beep put in, and you have turned it'ten minutes, 
pack again, and be sure to get it solid. When the water 
is troublesome, let off some, but not all. Stop the hole 
immediately, and pack to fill the space that .was occupied 
by the water, as the mixture will not freeze until all air is 
excluded. Beat pne way until you can no longer turn 
the beater. Now carefully brush the ice and salt from the 
cover and take out the beater ; cover again and put a cork 
in the cover. Now pack again with ice and salt. Cover 
the whole with" a piece of old carpet, and let it stand a 
few hours. Qr if you wish to put it in moulds, fill them 
as soon as you take out the beater ; pack them down well, 
or they will not look smooth when taken out. If you use 
an old-fashioned freezer, you must have a long iron spoon 
to beat it with, and a long knife to cut it from the sides 
with. Turn the freezer with the hands ; take off the cover 
every fifteen minutes. Scrape the cream from the sides, 
and then"beat, as you would cake, for ten minutes. When 
hard, light, and smooth, cover as before directed, or put 
in moulds. Lajj the moulds in ice and salt for three 
hours, and when ready to dish, dip them in warm water 



DESSERTS. 169 

for an instant. Wipe and turn the mould on an ice cream 
dish ; remove very gently. Serve immediately. 



Ice Cream, made with Cream,, , 

• Take four quarts of cream and sweeten with one heap- 
ing quart of sugar. Flavor with anything you please, but 
very strong. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

Made the same as chocolate, but using coffee instead of 
chocolate. Tie one pint of ground coffee in a piece of 
muslin, and boil in the milk for half an hour before ; then 
take it out, and make as before directed. 



Iie/mon Ice Cv^am,. 

Put two quarts of rich milk into a tin pail, and set into 
a kettle with hot water ; when this comes to a boil, stir in 
four spoonfuls of corn starch ; wet with one cup of milk. 
Cook this twenty minutes, and then add the yolks of 
twelve eggs, well beaten, stir a few minutes, and then 
take off and cool ; before cooling, stir in one heaping 
quart of sugar. When ice cold, add two quarts of cream, 
or rich milk will answer, and freeze. 

Vanilla, pineapple, and all other kinds of cream may 
be made in the same way, but use eight whites and yolks 
instead of twelve yolks of eggs. For strawberry and rasp- 
berry cream, allow the juice of one quart of berries to one 
gallon of cream. Some persons object to corn starrh 



170 THE APPLEDOEE COOK BOOK. 

but it makes a very much smoother and handsomer cream 
than when it is all made of eggs. Where all eggs are 
' used, make the same as sofit custard, and allow one quart 
of cream or milk to one quart of custard. 



Chocolate Ice Cream, 

Made the same as the others, with the addition of one 
cake of chocolate, and one pint more of sugar. Prepare 
the chocolate as for chocolate custard. 



Lemon Sherbet, 

One gallon of ice water, the juice of twenty lemons, and 
three pints of sugar ; strain into the freezer, and freeze as 
you would cream. 

Currant, strawberiyf raspberry, and orange sherbets 
may be made in the same manner. 

N. B. To flavor ice creams, use the extract. Lubin's 
is the best. 

Xtoman Ptm,ch. 

Two quarts of cold water, one of Madeira wine, half a 
pint of brandy, the juice of six lemons, and two quarts of 
sugar. This is very hard to freeze. In winter use snow 
instead of ice. 



Memarles, 

When making pies and cakes, the first thing to be done 
is to build your fire and get your oven just right. Now 
sift your flour, and measure it ; count and break your 
eggs ; measure every thing you are going to pilt in the 
cake ; lard your pans and line them writh' paper. Here is 
a formula, which it will be well to follow in making all 
kinds of cake in which you put butter. , 

Beat the butter to a cream, and then add the sugar 
gradually ; then spice and any kind of liquor which you 
use, then the milk, then the eggs well beaten, then the 
flour, in which always mix thoroughly, while dry, the 
saleratus and cream of tartar, and if fruit, let that always 
be the last thing to be added. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake. 

One coffee-cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, 
one of mUk, five eggs, onTs teaspoonful of saleratus, two 
of cream of tartar, lemon. This will make two good- 
sized sheets. Bake one half plain, and the other half 
spice with one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one half of clove, 
the same of allspice and nutmeg. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. 171 



172 THE APPLEDORK COOK BOOK. 

B,ich Cup Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four and a half of Hour, 
one wine-glass of brandy, five eggs, three spoonfuls of 
milk, and one nutmeg. Make two loaves of this, and 
bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes. . 

Concord Calee. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of sour milk, four 
and a half of flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
and the rind and juice of one lemon. Make into two 
loaves, and bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes. 

Lemon Cake. 

One teacup of butter, three of sugar, four, and a half of 
flour, one of sweet milk, five eggs, the. yolks and whites 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
of saleratus, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Bake 
in two loaves, in a rather quick oven, forty-five minutes. 

Barrison Cake. 

One and a half cups of butter, one and a half of sugar, 
one and a half of molasses, one and a half of^ milk, six of 
flour, three eggs, one glass of brandy, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two 
of cinnamon, two of mace, one pound of raisins, one of 
currants, quarter of a pound of citron, lemon. Bake in 



CAKE. 173 

three loaves, two hours and a half, in a moderate oven. 
This will keep twelve months. 

Bangor Cake, 

Two thirds of a cup of butter, two of sugar, one half of 
milk, three of flour, 'three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one half of saleratus. Flavor to taste, and bake 
in sheets, in a rather quick oven, thirty minutes. 

Bartlett Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour, four eggs, one wine-glass of whiskey, one cup of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar. 
Bake in two loaves in a moderate oven about one hour. 

Down East Cake. 

One tablespoonful of melted butter, one cup of milk, 
two of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two 
of cream of tartar. Bake in sheets, in a quick oven, and 
eat hot with butter. 

New York Cup Cake. 

One tumbler of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, oae 
of milk, four eggs, one wine-glass of wine, one teaspoon- 
ful each of cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, saleratus, and two 
cups of raisins after they are boiled. Bake in two loaves, 
in a moderate oven, about an hour. 



174 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Champagne Calces. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four eggs, one wine- 
glass of champagne, half a teaspoon of saleratus, and flour 
enough to pat out with the hand. Make into small flat 
cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Queen Cake. 

One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, half a pint 
of milk, one pint of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus, half a pound of currants, lemon. Bake in two 
loaves, in a moderate oven, nearly an hour. 

Loaf Cake. 

Two cups of butter, five of sugar, two of sour milk, 
eight of flour, one teaspoon of saleratus, six eggs. Fla- 
vor to taste. This will make four large loaves. 

Baisht Cake. 

Two thirds of a cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, 
two thirds of milk, three of flour, one of chopped raisins, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of 
saleratus. Bake in sheets in a quick oven. 

Tumbler Cake. 

One tumbler of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, one 
of milk, five of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salera* 



CAKE. 175 

tus, two of cream of tartar, spice to taste ; one pound of 
raisins, one of currants, half a pound of citron. Bake in 
a moderate oven two hours. 

Marble CaTee. 

The White Part. — One half of a cup of butter ; one 
and a half cups of sugar, two of flour, one half of milk, 
the white of four eggs, half a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one fourth of saleratus. Flavor with lemon. 

Dark Part. — One half a cup of butter, one of sugar, 
one half of molasses, two and a half of flour, one half of 
milk, the yolks of four and the white of one egg, half a- 
teaspoonful of saleratus, half of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace. Drop 
the white and dark in spoonfuls, alternately. This will 
make two loaves ; bake two hours in a moderate oven. 



Composition Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, one half 
of milk, two and half of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one half of saleratus, spice, and fruit 
to your liking. This makes one large loaf. Bake in a 
m>)derate oven one hour. 



Common Fruit Cake. 

One and a half cnps of butter, four of sugar, seven and 
a half of flour, six eggs, one wine-glass of brandy, one 



1 7^ THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of nutmeg, 
one of mace, one of allspice, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
and raisins and currants as many as you choose. Bake in 
a moderate oven two hours or more. This quantity 
makes three loaves. 



Delicate Cake. 

Butter the size of an egg, one cup of sugar, one of flour, 
the whites of five eggs, half a teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
of cream of tartar. Flavor with bitter almond, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Ice Cream, Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one of siigar, half of milk, two of 
flour, three eggs, the whites beaten separa.tely, one tea- 
spoonful o^ cream of tartar, one half of saleratus. Flavor 
.with lemon. Bake in thin sheets in a quick oven. This 
is nice to eat, while fresh, with ice cream. 



• Crullers, mks. t. leiohton. 

A piece of. butter the size of an egg, one cup of sugar, 
one nutmeg, three eggs. Make stiff with flour, and cut in 
fanciful shapes. Fry in boiling lard. 

Fourth of Jvly Cake. Mbs. t. Leighton. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, two of 
currants, one of chopped raisins, one half of citron, ona 



CAKE. 177 

glass of wine or brandy, mace, nutraeg,-clove, and lemon, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, ten 
eggs. Bake about two hours and a half in a moderate 
oven. The quantity will make two loaves. Frost 



Ginger Pound Cake, 

Two cups of butter, two of sugar, two of molasses, 
three eggs, nine cups of flour, two tablespoonfuls of gin- 
ger, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two of saleratus, one 
nutmeg. This will make three large loaves. • 



Pound Cake. 

One and a half cups €tf butter, three of sugar, four of 
flour, ten eggs, — beat the whites separately, — one tea- 
spoonful of mace. Bake in a rather quick 'oven forty 
minutes. 

Pound Cake. No. 2. 

Two cups of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of 
flour, twelve eggs, the yolk of one left out, one teaspoon- 
ful of mace. Bake in a rather quick oven forty minutes. 
Always beat the eggs separately for pound cake, and stir 
in the whites the last thing. 

Wedding Cake. 

Two cups of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of 
Bour, ten eggs, one wine-glass of brandy, one of wrine, 
12 



178 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

the rind and juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful of 
mace, one of clove, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, half 
a teaspoonful of saleratus, one of cream of tartar, one 
pound of raisins, one of currants, half a pound of citron. 
Bake in a moderaile oven three hours. This will make 
two large loaves. 

Gold Cake. 

One cup of butter, one pint of sugar, one quart of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two of ci-eam of tartar, the 
rind and jufce of two lemons, the yolks of fourteen eggs. 
Bake in sheets about two inches deep, in a rather quick 
oven, and about forty-five minutes. 

Golden Cake. No. 2. 

Golden cake made the same as the silver, with the 
yolks of the eggs and half a cup more of flour. Flavor 
with lemon. 

Silver Cake, 

One and a half cups of butter, thr^gf sugar, the whites 
of fourteen eggs, a pint and a half of Hour, one teaspaon 
of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful bitter 
alq;iond. Bake in a quick oven, in sheets about two 
inches deep. 

Silver Cake. No. 2, 

Half a cup of butter, one of sugar, one half of milk, two 
of flour, the whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 



CAKB. 1 79 

of tartar, one half of saleratus. Flavor with almond, and 
bake in sheets in a rather quick oven. Strew in strips of 
citron. 

Sponge Cake. 

^ . .^ 

Beat to a froth seven eggs and two teacups of sugar ; 
stir into this two coffee-cups of flour, in which is mixed 
one teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream of tartar. 
Flavor with the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Bake in sheets in a moderately hot oven. This is very 
nict. 

Sponge Cake. No. 2. 

One pint of sugar, one and a half of flour, twelve eggs, 
one lemon. Beat the sugat the juice andgrated rind of 
the lemon, and the yolks of the eggs together, then beat 
the whites • to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture ; and 
lastly stir in the flour very lightly. Bake in sheets about 
half an hour. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. 

■ Twenty-five eggs, one pint and a half of sugar, one 
pint and a half of flour, the grated rind of three and the 
juice of one lemon. Put together and bake the same /is 
No. 2. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

■ One cup of butter, two of sugar, the whites of ten eggs, 
four cups of flour, one of milk, one cup of prepared cocoa- 
nut soaked in the milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two 



l8o THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

of cream of tartar. Bake in sheets in a rather quick oven. 
If you use the fresh cocoanut, use two cups of it. 



% 



Orange Cake. 



Jeat to a froth four eggs and one and a*half cups of 
sugar ; stir into this one small cup of cold water, and 
then two cups of flour, in which are mixed one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, and one half of saleratus. Bake 
and split the same as cream pies. 

Filling for Orange Cake. 

Bfeat to a froth the white of one egg, and mix with it 
gradually one cup of powdered sugar, and the rind and 
juice of one orange. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Make the cake like orange cake. Filling : one quarter 
of a pake of Baker's chocolate, one half a cup of milk, one 
of sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Beat the sugar, chocolate, and eggs together, 
and stir into the boiling milk ; boil until thick, and then 
add the vanilla. 

t Chocolate Icing: 

Beat to a froth the white of one egg, and then beat in 
gradually one teacup of powdered sugar, which is mixed 
with a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate. Flavoi 



CAKE. l8l 

with one teaspoonful of vanilla. SpUt any kind of light 
cake and spread with jelly ; then put on the icing, and set 
in a warm oven a few moments to harden.* 



White Mountain Cake. 



1S> 



Make like Concord cake, and bake in sheets about onS 
inch thick ; have all the cakes the same size. Have three 
cakes in a loaf; lay one cake on a board and spread with 
frosting, then lay another on top of that, and spread this 
with frosting ; then lay on the third, and frost the whole, 
and set where it will dry. This is very handsome, and 
will keep a long time. 



TanUla Jumbles. 

% . 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one wine- 
glass of wine, one spoonful of vanilla, and flour enough 
to roll out. Roll as thin as the blade of a knife, and cut 
with an oval cutter. Bake on tin sheets, in a quick oven, 
until a dark brown. These will keep a year, if kept in a 
tin box and in a dry place. 



In making preserves, use a porcelain kettle, which 
should be used for nothing else. Have also a large wooden 
spoon, which k^ep expressly for this use. Be very care- 
ful not to let the sirup burn or boil over, and a%ays skim 
carefully. Lobk at your preserves once a month at least, 
and if they are beginning to ferment, scald and skim. If 
they mould on top that will not injure them, but will keep 
the air froni them and thus protect them. Be very care- 
ful when removing it not to'get any of it in the sirup. Pre- 
serves should be kept in a cool,' dry place. Always seal 
them while hot, as by this means you do not seal air in ; 
but if they are allowed to grow cold before sealing they 
will riot keep so well. Heat the jars, before putting the 
preserves in, by setting them in a pan of waism water, 
and let it heat gradually until it comes to a boiling point. 
Cut note-paper in round pieces about two inches deeper 
than the mouth of the jar ; make a paste with the white 
of an egg and a little flour ; wet the edges with it and 
paste on. 

Preserved Peaches, 

Pare and cut in two peaches that have begun to mellow, 

V 

but they must be ripe. Take out the stones and then put 

182 



PRESERVES. 183 

the fruit in a large earthen dish, cover with coffee crushed 
sugar. For every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar. 
ILiet this stand over night, and in the morning turn the 
sirup into the preserving kettle, and clarify ; then put in 
the peaches and cook until tender, which will be in about 
thirty minutes. Lay them in a stone pot, and pour the 
boiling sirup over them. When cool, put in small jars, 
and paste note-paper over the top. Keep in a cool, dry 
place. 

Preserved Pears. 

Pare, but do not cut them up. Weigh them, and then 
boil until tender in just water enough to cover them. 
When tender, take them out and make a sirup of the water 
in which they were boiled, and the sugar; allow* one 
pint of water and one pound of sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Boil this one hour, and then put in the pears and 
one sliced lemon to every pound ; boil gently for forty 
minutes, then take up, and when cool put in jars. Boil 
the sirup until thick, and if the jars are stone, pour over 
the pears while hot. 



Crab Apple Preserves. 

Wash the apples and drain ; leave the stems on them. 
Make a sirup with the same weight of sugar that you have 
apples, and half a pint of water to a pound of sugar ; sim- 
mer the apples in this forty-five minutes, and then take 
out and lay in a stone jar. Let the sirup simmer one hour 
longer, and turn boiling on the apples. Seal while hot, 
with note-prfper. 



184 THE APPLEUORB qOOK. BOOK. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

Pare and cut the, pineapple in slices about an inch thick. 
Cover with an equal weight of sugar, and let it stand ovei 
night In the morning proceed as with peach preserves. 



Preserved Citron Melon. 

Pare and cut the melon into handsome pieces about an 

inch thick. Boil gently until tender, in just water enough 

to cover it ; as soon as it is tender, take out and lay in a 

platter, and put more on to boil. Do this until all is 

cooked. Now make a sirup of the weight of the melon 

in sugar (which weigh before cooking) and the water in 

which it was boiled. Let this boil one hour ; then put in 

the melon, and' one lemon sliced to^each pound of inel- 

on ; a few cloves. Simmer fifty minutes, then'take up and 

boil the sirup half an hour longer, then pour over the 

melon while hot. 

* 

Preserved Apples., 

Pare and quarter good tart apples ; preserve them the 
same as melon, omitting the cloves. They are nice to 
use fate in the spring' and early in the summer for green 
apple pies ; but as a preserve, they are too insipid. 

Preserved Plwms. 

Take the weight of the plums in sugar, and to two 
pounds of sugar allow half a pint of water. Make a 



PRESERVES: 185 

sirup of this, and when clear, boil the plums in it for 
forty-five minutes. Do not put many in at a time. When 
they are all done, let the sirup boil an hour, and pour over 
them while hot. Seal with note-paper. This rule will 
answer for all kinds of plums. 

Preserved Cherries. 

Cherries are preserved the same as plums. 

s 

Preserved QvAnces, 

Pare, quarter, and cut out the cores. Save the parings 
and cores' for jelly. Preserve the same as pears, omitting 
the lemon. 

• JRaspberry JTam, 

Take equal weights of raspberries and sugar ; put the 
berries in a dish and cover with the sugar, and let them 
stand over night. In the morning put in the kettle and 
boil two hours (ski Aiming carefliUy), and put up in jars ; 
seal with note-paper. Strawberries and blackberries are 
cooked in the same manner. 

Barberries Preserved with Pears. 

Weigh the barberries, and make a sirup of an equal 
weight of sugaf J* allowing half a pint of water to a pound 
of sugar. When the sirup is clear, put in the barberries 
(which must be free from stems), and boil fifty minutes. 



1 86 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

When the barberries are all cooked, put as many pears, 
pared and quartered, as you have barberries into the sirup, 
and boil until tender ; then take up and put with the bar 
berj-ies. Boil the sirup thirty minutes, and then pour boil- 
ing over the fruit. 



Beirberries Preserved in Molasses. 

One peck of barberries, six quarts of molasses. Pick 
the barberries free from stems and imperfect ones. Let 
the molasses come to a boil, then put in the barberries, and 
boil about fifty minutes. They will be clear and full when 
done. Skim them out and put in the jars. .Save two 
quarts of the sirup for drinks, and turn the remainder 
over the barberries. Be very careful that the molasses 
shall not burn. Sweet apples may be cooked with these 
in the same manner that pears are cooked with those done 
in sugar. 

Grape Marmalade. 

Put the' gi-apes in a st&ne pot, and set the pot into a 
kettle with cold water ; set this on the fire and boil until 
the grapes will mash easily ; stir them often, and jam with 
bowl of the spoon. Take them up and strain through a 
sieve. To a quart of the pulp allow a pint of sugar, and 
boil forty minutes. 

Currant Jelly. ^ 

To be nice the currants must be just rife^ and neither 
more nor less. Put them, stems and all, into a stone pot, 



^RESERVES. 187 

and cover to keep the steam in. Set the pot into a kettle 
with cold water, and place on the fire. Boil until they 
will all jam easily. Jam them with the bowl of the spoon. 
Lay a piece of thin muslin in a sieve, and turn the cur- 
rants into it ; squeeze the juice through. If you are care- 
ful to have it clear now, you will not have to strain it after 
the sugar is added. To a pint of juice add a pint of sugar, 
and boil fifty minutes. Take it off the fire and let it 
stand until so cool that it will not break the glasses, but 
no longer, and then fill the glasses ; let tUlm stand in the 
sun a- few days, and then seal with note-paper. 



. Currant Shrub. 

Make the same as jelly, but boil only ten minutes. 
When cool, bottle. Raspberry, strawberry, and black- 
berry shrubs made in the same way. 

Apple J'elly. 

Make the same as quince, with the addition of a stick 
of cinnamon and one lemon to a quart of juice, after the 
sugar is added. It will take longer to cook than quince. 

Quince J'elly. 

Put the cores and parings in the preserving kettle, and 
cover with cold water. Boil gently two hours; then 
squeeze through a thick piece of cloth, and to a pint of 
juice allow a pint of sugar. Boil until it will jelly when 



l88 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

» 

a little is put in a saucer, then treat as currant jelly. 
Where water is put with fruit you cannot limit the time 
of boiling. 

To Can, Berries. 

Put the berries in a nice tin pan, and set over a boiler 
of boiling water, and to a gallon of berries allow one cup 
of boiling water ; heat the berries to the boiling point. 
(Cover them, and stir occasionally, and they will heat much 
sooner.) Heat self-sealing jars by putting them in a pan 
of cold water. Set on the stove, and let the water boil ; 
now fill the jars to the top, and put on the covers, and set 
up ; as the glass is expanded by the heat, they cannot be 
set tight now ; but after they become cool, get a man to 
set them up very tight. Set away in a cool, dry place. 
Always use the fruit as soon as opened. If these direc- 
tions are followed, you may put up any kind of fruit, and 
keep it nice for years. 



Fickled Cucumbers. ,* 

Pick the cucumbers before they get very large ; hiy liieni 
in a tub, and cover with a boiling brine of one gill of salt 
to one gallon of water ; let this stand until cold, and then 
turn the brine back into the kettle and boil again, and pour 
over the cucumbers; do this five times, and then turn off 
and cover with boiling alum water (allow one heaping 
spoonful of alum to one gallon of water). When cold, turn 
ofT, and boil again, and turn on the cucumbers a second 
time. When this is cold, turn off, and drain the cucumbers. 
Now put on a few quarts of good cider vinegar in a porce- 
lain kettle, and when it boils, drop a few cucumbers in at 
|a time, and let them boil about eight minutes ; then skim 
out and drain. Do this until they are all scalded. Lay 
them in a stone pot and cover with good cider vinegar. 
You may use bell peppers and spice if you choose. You 
cannot fail to have good pickles if you follow this rule. 

Tomato I^ckles, 

Cut green tomatoes into slices about an inch thick, and 
sprinkle with salt. (Allow half a cup of salt to a peck of 
tomatoes), and let them stand over night. In the morning 

189 



190 THE APPLEDOR^E COOK BOOK. 

turn off all the liquor and scald them in boiling vinegar ; 
then lay them in the stone pots and sprinkle between them 
half a spoonful of white mustard seed and a handful of 

whole cloves. Cover with cold vinegar. 

f 

Tomato PicJeles, No. 2. 

Cut a peck of green tomatoes in slices, and lay in a 
stone jar ; cover with one pint of molasses. Skim when 
it ferments, and your pickles are made.. This is good. 

TiccaWM, 

Slice one peck of tomatoes and sprinkle with one hand- 
ful of salt ; let them stand over night, and in the morning 
turn off the liquor. Chop the tomatoes, one cabbage-head, 
seven onions, and four green peppers. Mix with this half 
a pint of whole mustard, half a teacup of sugar, half a tea- 
cupful of horseradish, and vinegar enough to cover the 
whole. Stew until soft. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Cut up one gallon of ripe tomatoes, and put on in a 
porcelain kettle and boil. Prepaire half a pint of sugar, 
half a pint of strong cider vinegar, or more if not strong ; 
one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
of allspice, one quartef of a teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per. Boil the tomatoes half an hour and then run them 
through a sieve. Now put them on with the spice, vine- 
gar, and sugar, and boil until there is about two quarts 
and a pint. Cool and bottle. 



S^W^ES. 



^rawn Butter. 

Beat one cup of butter and two spoonfuls of flour to a 
cream, and pour over this one pint of boiling water. Set 
on the fire and let it come to a boil, but do noi boil. Serve 
immediately. 

Egg Sauce. 

Chop up two hard boiled eggs, and stir into drawn 
butter. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Set a basin on the fire with half a pint of oysters and 
one pint of boiling water ; let them boil three miniates, 
and then stir in half a cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
with two spoonfuls of flour ; let this come to a boil, and 
serve. 

Celery Sauce. 

Chop fine two heads of celery, and boil one hour ; at 
the end of that time, have about a pint and a half of wa- 
ter with it, and stir in two spoonfuls of flour wet with cold 
water. BoiJ, this ten minutes, and then stir in two spoon- 
fuls of butter. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. 

191 • 



1 93 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

« 

Caper Sauce. 

Into a. pint of drawn butter stir three spoonfuls of ca- 
pers. 

MiMt. Sauce. 

Chop fine half a cupful of mint, and add to it a cup 

of vinegar and a spoonful of sugar. 

«■ 

Bread Sauce. 

Half a pint of grated bread crumbs, one pint of milk, 
and one onion. Boil this until the sauce is smooth, then 
take out the onion and stir in two spoonfuls of butter, and 
salt and pepper. Boil up once, and serve. 

Coddled-Apples, 

Pare and core with an apple-corer, cook the same as for 
apple-sauce ; but allov? one' pint of sugar to one quart of 
water. ^ 

' Cranberry Sauce. 

Pick and wash the cranberries, and put in the preserv- 
ing kettle with half a pint of water to one quart of ber- 
ries ; now put the sugar on top of the berries, allowing a 
pint of sugar to a quart of berries. Set on the fire and 
stew about half an hour. Stir often to prevent burning. 
They will not need straining, and vvill preserve their rich 
color cooked in this way. Never cook cranberries before 
putting in the sugar. J^ess sugar may be used if you do 
not wish them very rich. 



SAUCES. 



Apple-Sauce. 



193 



Pare, quarter, and core nice tart apples. Make a sirup 
of two quarts of water and one cup of sugar ; simmer the 
apples in this until tender, but do not break them ; then 
lay in an earthen dish ; do this until they are- all cooked. 
(Do not put many in the sirup at a time), and then let the 
sirup get cool, and turn on the apples. 

Baked Pears, 

* 
Put the pears in a deep earthen dish or a baking-pan, 

and to a dozen gQod-sized pears allow half a cup of sugar 

and a pint and a half of water. Bake in a moderate oven 

two hours and a half or three. They will notAeep many 

days" cooked in this manner, but they are nice. Sweet 

apples are cooked in the same manner. 

§tewed Prunes. 

Wash the prunes in warm water and rub them well be- 
tween the hands. Put them in a kettle that you can cover 
tight, with two quarts of water to one of prunes. Ste"V 
them gently two hours. These will not keep more than 
two days in warm weather, bilt cooked in this way they 
do not require any sugar, and are very nice. 

Dried Apple-Sauce. 

Pick and wash the apples carefully, then place in a pre- 
serving kettle. For one pint of dried apple cut the thin 
yellew skin off a lemon, and then pare and cut up the in- 
13 



194 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

side. Put the yellow skin (be careful not to get any of the 
white) and the inside into the kettle with the apple, and 
three pints of cold water. Cover tight, and simmer three 
hours, then put in one pint of sugar, but do not stir the 
apple, and simmer two hours longer. Never stir dried 
apple-sauce. 



" Tea. 

ScAi.D the teapot and put in the tea, allowing one tea 
spoonful to each person ; pour over this half a cup of 
boilinff vfatex (soft water is the best), and steep in a hot 
place, but not where it will boil, t^ minutes ; then turn 
in all the boiling water you wish, and serve. 

Coffee. ,^ 

Put one cup of ground xoffee and one pint of cold wa- 
ter into the coffee-pot ; set the pot on the fire and boil tei? 
minutes after it comes to a boil ; then turn in a pint of 
boiling water and a piece of salt fish skin about' an inch 
square. Boil ten minutes longer, then turn in half a cup 
of cold water and set one side five minutes ; turn into 
another pot, and send to the table. Always serve boiled 
milk with coffee. 



DRINKS. 195 

Shells. 

* 

Put one quart of cold water and half a cup of shells 
into the pot, and boil gently four or five hours ; add boil- 
ing water occasionally. About twenty minutes before 
serving, add one pint of new milk and boiling water 
enough to make three pints in all ; let this boil a few min- 
utes, strain and serve. 

Chocolate. 

With four spoonfuls of grated chocolate mix one of 
sugar, and wet with one of boiling water. Rub this 
smooth with the bowl of the spoon, and then stir into one 
pint of boiling water ; let this boil up once, and then add 
one pint of good milk ; let this boil up once, and serve. 

Frepared Cocoa. 

Prepared cocoa is made the same as chocolate, omitting 
the sugar. All milk may be used if preferred. Never 
boil chocolate or prepared cocoa more than one minute. 
Baling makes it oily. The quicker it is used after mak- 
ing the better. 



E^^S. 



Boiled Egga. 

Put the eggs in a tin basin and pour boiling water over 
them ; let them stand on a part of the stove where they 
will keep hot, but not boil, for ten minutes, or boil in boil- 
ing water three minutes and a half. The first method is 
the best. This is for rare done eggs. 

Fried Eggs. 

Have boiling lard in the frying-pan ; break the eggs 
into a saucer one at a time, and slide them gently "into the 
pan ; now, with a large spoon, dip up the boiling lard and 
poUr it over the eggs ; do this until they are set, then dish. 

• 

Dropped Eggs. • 

Turn a quart of boiling water into a basin with one 
spoonful of salt. Break the eggs one at a time into a 
saucer ; dip one side of the saucer into the water and let 
the eggs slide gently into it. Boil gently until set, which 
will be in about two minutes, and serve on toast. 

196 



EGGS. ipjr 

Poached Eggs. 

Break and beat up two eggs, and stir into them two ta- 
ble^poonfuls of milk and half a teaspoonful of salt ; put 
them into a basin, with half a spoonful of b\jtter, and set 
over the fire. Stir until it thickens, and then serve. 



Scrabbled Eggs. 

Beat together four eggs, and then turn into a pan with 
one spoonful of melted butter. Stir quickly over a hot 
fire one minute, and serve. 



Omel^. 

Beat lightly two eggs, and stir in one spoonful of milk 
and a pinch of salt. Heat the omelet pan hot, and then 
put in a little bit of butter, and when melted turn in the 
beaten eggs ; set on the fire, shake the pan, cook until a 
light brown ; then fold the omelet and serve on a hot dish. 
Ham, mushroom, lobster, chicken, and all kinds of ome< 
lets are made- by chopping up the meat, and laying it be- 
tween the folds before dishing. 



Buttered Toast. 

Beat to a froth one cup of butter and three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; pour over this .one pint and a half of doil- 
ing water ; set this over a kettle of boiling water for ten 
minutes. Cut bread in slices half an inch thick ; toast 
brown and dip into this. Serve very hot. 

MUk Toast, 

Put one quart of milk in a tin pail or Basin and set into a 
kettle of boiling water. When it comes to a boil stir in two 
spoonfuls of flour, mixed with half a cup of milk, one 
spoonful of butter, and salt to taste ; let this boil ten min- 
utes, and then put in the bread, which must be toasted 
brown. Cook five minutes longer and serve. 

French Toast. 

Soak bakers' bread, as for Italian fritters ; toast brown, 
butter, and serve hot. 

198 



HISCBLLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1 99 

Sandwiches. 

Take the pieces of ham which are left on the bone after 
all the slices are cut off and chop rather fine. Cut bread 
into thin slices (tiae milk j'east is the best for this) and 
butter. Now spread with the ham, and lay another but- 
tered slice over this. Trim the edges. This is a very 
nice dish for evening parties or picnics. Fold them in a 
damp towel until they are sent to the table. They may 
be made by putting slices of cold ham, tongue, beef, or 
chicken between the slices of buttered bread. 



Oyster Stew. 

Drain all the liquor from ^e oysters ; put it into a 
porcelain kettle,' and let it come to a boil-; then skim"6ff 
all the scum. Now turn in the milk, which you have let 
come to a boil in hot water. (Allow one qfcart of milk 
to one pint of oy^rs.) Stir in also one spoonful of but- 
ter or more, sa^i and pepper to taste. Now put in the 
oysters, let them boil up once, and serve with a dish of 
oyster crackefs. -^ 

Com Starch Cake. 

One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, one and a 
half of flour, one half of corn starch, one half of milk, 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half of 
saleratus. Flavor with lemon. Bake in sheets. This 
will make two sheets, and will keep' a month. 



zoo THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Seed Cakes i' 

Butter the size of an egg, two cups of sugar, and four 
of flour, half a teaspoonful of 'saleratus, and milk to wet 
it so that it will roll easily ; seeds to taste. Roll about 
half an inch thick, and bake in a quick«oven. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

One cup of sour milk, butter the size of a walnut, one 
third of a teaspoonfiil of soda, one fourth of teaspoonful 
of salt ; mix lightly, and bake in a quick oven. While 
baking take one pint and a half of strawberries and mash 
,^fine. When the cake is baked, cut in two apd butter each 
part ; then put on the larger portion a layer of sugar, and 
thdti strawberries, then a layer of sugar, then lay on the 
other part, and serve immediately. 



Cream Cakes. 



I 



Turn on one cup of butter, one pirifpof boiling water. 
Stir two good-sized cups o^our into this,rfhen take off 
and cool. When cool, stirTti five well-beaten eggs. Drop 
on tins and bake. ^ 

Filling. — Make the filling as for cream pies. It will 
take twice the quantity. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 201 



Tapioca Cream, 



Four large spoonfuls of tapioca, just cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Set one quart of milk on the 
fire to warm. Beat the yolks of four eggs and one cup of 
sugar together. Stir into the warm milk, with a pinch of 
salt, and then stir in the tapioca. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and stir into the custard, then turn into a dish. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



Cider Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, three 
eggs, half a pint of cider, one teaspoonful of soda, spice 
to taste. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take three and a half pounds of veal from the leg and 
chop it very fine ; 3dd six powdered crackers, half a pound 
of ^It pork chopped fine, and two eggs well beaten. Sea- 
son with tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful black pep- 
per, half a teaspoonful of allspice, one half of ground 
clove, half a . small onion chopped fine ; sage or sweet 
marjoram may be used instead of onion if preferred. 
Knead all this together and make it into a loaf, and 
place it on a tin sheet. Beat one egg, and pour it over the 
loaf; put bits of butter on the top, and sift over it half a 
pound of crackers. Take half a teacup of hot water, add 
a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, and with this baste 
the loaf three or four times while baking. Bake two 



202 THE APPLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

hours. When cold cut in thiii slices, and serve for either 
breakfast or tea. - • 

i/emon Pies, 

Take two femons and grate away the outside, and not 
use it. Chop the rest very fine ; into two teacups of hot 
water, stir two > spoonfuls of corn starch, aqd boil ; add 
two teacups of sugar ; when cool, add the beaten yolks of 
four eggs and the chopped lempn ; stir well together. Line 
two plates, and pour in the mixture and bake. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a froth with six tablespoons of sugar. 
Spread this over the pies ; set in the oven again and bake 
a light browti. « 

Sop Yeast. 

Extra nice. Into one quart of water in which potatoes 
have been boiled put a pinch of hops, and boil a few 
minutes ; strain, and then stir in one spoonful of sugar and 
one of salt Lefc this '''cool, and when blood warm add 
half a cup of good'yeast. It soon foams up like beer, and 
will keep in all temperatures. Put nothing in the yeast 
but the potato water, hops, sugar, salt, and the rising. 



Baked BucJewheat Cakes. 

Mix and'rise the buckwheat over night, as for griddle 
cakes, only a little stiffer; in the morning heat French 
roll pans very hot in the oven ; grease them, turn in the 
batter, and bake. 



Missing Page 



204 THE AFFLEDORE COOK BOOK. 

Boiled InMan Pudding, 

Four cups of Indian meal, one cup of beef suet chopped 
finej 6ne cup of molasses, a little salt. Pour on boiling 
water enough to make a thick batter. Boil in a clothj 
tied very loose ly, two hours "or more. «Put in the pot be- 
fore the water quite boils. Serve with butter and sirup. 



Spiced Curranta, 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one pint ' 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, two of cinnamon. 
Stew half an hour. To eat with roast meat. 



Chili Satiee. 

Take nine large or eighteen small tomatoes, scald, peel, 
and chop, with two peppers and one large onion. Add 
one tablespoonful of salt, two of sugar, one teaspeonful 
each of ginger, cloves, allspice, cinnamon, one nutmeg, 
and two small cups of vinegar. Stew half an hour ; bot* 
tie while hot 

Graha/m Fies, ubs. c. thaxteb. 

Into a pint of Graham flour, stir one teaspoonful of salt ; 
wet with boiling water enough to make a stiff paste. 
Roll thji very thin, and cut into cakes about three inches 
in dianieter ; put into these a spoonful of apple-sauce and 
fold them. Bake on tin sh^ts. These can be 'eaten by 
any dyspeptic. ' 



■to* ■* . 



