Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Ifearfeart ColUgE Eifararg 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 




leiilil^lilili 



SMCOJTO SOMWMQff, 



PRESENTED BY 



_jjj>' I>- FOSTER, 

iSt^ashington Street, - - Boston. 

glat^iiu f toist, Srtoinig SHhs, 

, COTTON AND LINEN THREADS, 

Daad and Sewiog Slachine Findings, Etc. 

Acml for U» Bile Df E. B17TTKICK <ft CO.'S 



\m^ PLEASE READ. ^=^0 



The"Lion"Gas Stove & Heater. 



A PERFECT GEM. 



A COMBINATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY AND UTILITY. 



Patented May, 1870. Stnrges & Mei^ga, Patenteea. 



WHATEVER favltg may have been Incident to the combnation of Gas for 
heating purposes In the varlons experiments heretofore made, lire feel 
confident that all objections are now met and overcome in the Lton Heater. The 
greatest objection to Gas ^tovfsand Heaters has always been the oft'enslve odor 
and amonnt 6f Oas consumed, ^o other heaters that we have sefn are free 
from these objections. If they are not recognizable at first, they will appear 
afler a few weeks' use. The Lion Burner is so constructed that it will give a 
perfect combustion for any length of time, free from all impurities^ requiring no 
repairing or cleaning, as is the case with those using Qauze. Another objection 
is the Expense, where the Beater consumes from three to twenty feet of Gas, 
according to its size. 1'he Lion Beater burns from one to eight feet, giving an 
intense heat, practically applied to the purpose In hand, applicable both to the 
Kitchen and Parlor, as well as for Manufactories. ' 

We defy fault-finding, and cordially invite all Gas consumers to investijrate 
for themselves, and save ^el and time, liur Oas Heating Furnace, we are con- 
fident, will come into general use everywhere where atemporary heat is required, 
as soon as the public are cognlzaut of the above facta. 

In regard to the price, the durabilit> must be considered, vi^ich, with the 
saving of Gas, renders it the cheapest Heater ever offered to the people. I'he 
]gublic are cordially invited to call at our Exhibition Koom and inspect the vari- 
ous samples. MST AU these Stoves and' Burners warranted as represented. 



r\ 



MR I FOSTER, Kei EDgland Apt, 181 WASHINGTON STREET, 



Since October 1st, 1870, several hundreds of these Stoves have been 
sold, ail of which are giving entire satisfaction. Below may be found a few of 
the names of gentlemen who have these Stoves in iiser — J. B. Crocker, jr., 
American Bouse: Mr. Baker, If arlboro* Hotel; B. P. Cutler, Charlestown, 
Mass.; Samuel O. Mead, 11 Pavilion; E. M. Fowle, Kewton Centre; A. S. 
Lovett, 21 East Concord Street; George Bobbins & Co., Fitcbburg, Mass.; F. A. 
Gould, Quincy House: James Patten, 1200 Washington Street; Dr. R. Whit- 
neyjMCommonwealtn Avenue; Mackey & Davis, 23 Milk Street; Nichols & Co., 
136 Washington Street ; Geo. H. Richards, 24 Dock Square ; Hon. Geo iii o*.*' ' 
New Bedford ; C. N. Idellen, 112 West Chester Park ; Dr. Mitchell 96 Chl** 
Street, Chelsea; W. F. Almy, 65 Hancock Street; G. M. Smith, Jamaica Phd"^ 

AJao, Manvfaefurer and l>ea1er in Machine Twiat, Silh. e^^** 
and l,%nen Thrfadst Heedles, Shuttlra^ Bobbins, «««rf "®** 
and Machine Sewing Jb'indings, iCte., Mti. ****" 



f??^k-i3^'^?^ 



^^*^ 



\cm\mi\Mt 



Smcntem gmMTtfr, 



HOIEILD eOOKING RBGIPIS, 



•mmm\ or an Mirar caterer, 

3t»d pntneuneed by th« Subnertben ef Iha FSril SdlHoH 
ft* <»» eflhe Fiiuit ColltaHom af family 
Cooking Seclptt trer fubttiked 
/■ Ihlt Ceuai^, 



BOSTON : 
%* FOX & COMPANY, Publishers 
1873. 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

URS. CHESTER N. 6REEN0U6H 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 

INDEX. 



Faob 

BxBF 25 

Beef Tokgubs ... 29 
BiiANG Mange . . . 109 
Bread, Pastbt, etc. . . 67 

Cake 93 

Cabvinq . . . . . 3 
Gabbots . . . . fil 

Gelebt 48 

God 16 

Cold Sauces, Stobe Sauces 61 
Coffee Becipes ... 64 

Cbeams 101 

GusTABDS, etc. . . . 104 
Dessebt Dishes, Gakes, etc 89 

Fish 15 

fobcemeats .... 53 

Game 40 

Gravies & Sayoby Sauces 55 

Halibut 19 

Ices 106 

Lamb . . . . .32 
Mackebel .... 20 
Mabmaladbs. . . .119 



Faob 

HnrcB Meat .... 75 

MuTTOir 33 

Onions 62 

Oystebs . . . . .24 

Pastby 74 

Pebch 23 

POBK 36 

POULTBY .... 37 

Pbesebybs, Jelues, etc. . 112 
Pudding Sauces . . , ^ 
Puddings, etc. ... 78 
Belishes, eta ... 66 
Sauces . . ' . . .57 

SAIiADS 44 

Salmon 21 

Shell-Fish . . . .23 

Soups 9 

Table Sauces, Ketchups, etc. 62 

Tabts 76 

Tbout 22 

Turnips . . . .60 

Veal 31 

Ybgxtablbs, Potatoes . 46 



CUISINE. 



CABVUTO. 

Although the fashion of the 1^7 has introdaced into the 
higher classes the custom of dishes carved at the sideboard by 
servants, it is unlikely this should ever become general, and it is 
needless to expatiate on the utility of the art of carving to both 
sexes in America. Especially in the middle classes, the master 
and mistress of a family should have a practical knowledge of it ; 
and to carve graceftdly, dexterously, and quickly, is no mean 
accomplishment for any man. 

The general principles of carving are plain and simple ; but it 
requires practice to gain much expertness in the art. 

In carving meat It is almost an invariable rule to cut across, 
not along, the fibre ; the fillet or under side of the sirloin of beef 
forms an exception : it must be sliced in the direction of the 
fibres. In joints of meat, in poultry, or game, it is necessary 
to know the point where the bones can be separated, in order to 
introduce the knife where they can be neatly divided. 

The carving-knife should always be sharp, of a size and form 
suitable for the article before you. The fish-knife and fork of 
silver, large, the blade of the knife broad. For large Joints of 
meat, a long sharp knife ; for poultry, a shorter, pointed blade, 
but long-handled knife, to obtain a command in separating the 
Joints. The fork which is used to steady the Joint or bird must 
be steel, two-pronged, and protected by a guard. 

In serving soup, one ladleful is sufficient on each plate. In 
helping to gravy, pour it on the side, not over the meat. 

Cod^B Head and Shoulders, 

All fish should be carved on the same principle — that is, the 
fiakes should not be broken, or the beauty, and much of the del- 
icacy, of the fish is destroyed. In cod, however, the thick part 
is often cut across in slices. The cheek is considered a deli- 
cacy ; also the sound, which lines the backbone ; and the liver, 
when sent in, must be neatly and careftiUy divided. The gela- 
tinous part about the eye, called the cheek, is also a delicacy, 



CUISINE, 



and must be distributed Justly, according to the number of the 
party. The under part, which is termed the thin part, is pre- 
ferred by some. 

TurhoU 
. There is more art in delicately carving the imperial turbot 
than any other fish, in order that every one may be supplied with 
the rich skin and fins, so highly appreciated by epicures. It is 
always brought to table with the white or under side uppermost, 
an this is the most delicate part. The point of the fish-knife 
must be drawn down the middle to the bone, and from thence 
deep cuts made at right angles, and the squares, thus made, care- 
fully raised, including the portion of fin attached to each. After 
the upper part is consumed, the backbone may be removed, and 
the lower part divided in the same way, neatly, and without 
breaking the flakes. Brill, a fish much inferior In quality, but 
sometimes introduced as turbot, must be carved in the same way. 

8alvM>n. 

Salmon is usually served in a handsome slice, and ' it is only 
necessary to know whether the thick or thin part, the back or 
under part, be preferred, and to be careful not to break the 
flakes. 

Most flsh are carved in a similar manner, except the smal^r 
fty, which are helped whole ; and mackerel, which are divided 
from head to tail and the flesh careftiUy raised A*om the bone and 
served. 

Sirloin, o/ Beef. 

The tender under side of the sirloin, called the fiUet, is usaally 
most liked, and the meat must be raised to enable the carver to 
cut slices Arom it parallel with the bone and along the grain. In 
carving the upper part, begin at the edge, cutting the slices down 
to the bone, and adding, if required, a portion of the marrowy 
fat from the under side. 

The RIBS of beef are carved in the same way as the upper part 
of the sirloin. 

Bound of Beef. 

A thick slice must first be cut off to give a smooth, even sur- 
face ; all that is then required is a sharp knife, aud a firm hand to 
cut thin slices and leave the Joint quite smooth. 

In the BRISKET and other Joints of beef it is only necessary to 
carve the meat in neat slices across the grain. 



CUISINE, 



FUlet of Veal. 
The flUet of veal, like the roand of beef, is to be caryed in 
horizontal slices, not qaite so thin as those of the beef; and 
with each mast be included a portion of the fot and the force- 
meat, and, if desired, of the brown outside slice. In this joint, 
as in all cases, the gravy most be added in small quantity. 

Loin of Veal. 

The loin is usually cut across in two portions, the chump, or 
fleshy end, and the kidney, or bony end, which is the most 
delicate, and must be divided across ; each slice either including 
a bone, or the portion of meat between each two bones ; to 
this must be added a thin slice of the kidney, and a portion of 
the fat round the kidney, which is very rich. The chump end 
is carved in slices across the grain. 

BreaU of Veal. 

The brisket, or gristles of the breast, must be separated firom 
the thin rib-bones, and then divided into tranverse sections for 
helping : the ribs are easily carved. These parts may be helped 
together or separately, as may be liked, with the addition of a 
small portion of the sweetbread. 

Shoulder of Veal or Mutton. 

Insert the knife at the outer edge and cut directly to the bone ; 
this will open in a deep gap, Arom each side of which slices 
may be obtained. Other slices may be carved along each side 
of the blade-bone ; many prefer the rich and delicate slices from 
the under part of the shoulder, under the shank, or obliquely in 
the hollow under part. Veal is generally served with a force- 
meat stuffing, of which a part must be helped with each slice. 

Saddle of Mutton. 

The common way of carving this Joint is still by thin slices of 
the lean along the bone, and adding a portion of fat ; but the 
Improved mode is to cut across the grain, by passing the knife 
straight along one side of the chine close to the bone, to enable 
you to disengage the slices easily, and then cutting obliquely 
lean and fat, beginning near the tail. 

The saddle of lamb is carved in the same way. 

Haunch of Mutton or Venison. 
Cut across the Joint below the knuckle, down to the bone, that 
the gravy may run out; from thence, carve it in long thin 
slices to the lower end of the loin, by which means the fkt and 



cuismK 



lean are well mingled. The kidney fat, If the meat be flresh, is 
very rich, and nsually mach in request; but in venison long 
kept, it is often uneatable. 

Leg of Mutton. 

Unless any particular part be called for, the usual mode of 
cutting a leg of mutton is to cut it across down to the bone and 
take out slices, not too thin. It may be carved longitudinally, 
like the haunch, by which mode a great number of good slices 
are obtained ; or some prefer the delicate meat on the underside , 
beneath the kernel of fat called the Pope's eye, which is the 
prime fat of the Joint. 

Quarter of Lamb. 

It is the fore -quarter only which is served whole, and then the 
shoulder is often separated before it is served, -after which, a 
slice of butter, a little lemon-Juice, and a sprinkling of salt and 
pepper^ are introduced, and the shoulder restored to its place. 
The breast and shoulder are then separately carved, as directed 
for the breast and shoulder of veal. 

Tongue. 
When a tongue is served without rolling, which is seldom the 
case now, it must be carved by cutting across the middle, but 
not quite through, and from thence sliced, not too thin. A lit- 
tle fat fh>m the root underneath must be added. The slices are 
carved horizontally, as in a fillet of veal. 

A Sucking Pig. 

Before it is sent to table, the head is removed and opened 
and the body split in two, thus rendering it very easy to carve. 
First separate the shoulders, then the legs from the body. The 
triangular piece of the neck between the shoulders is reckoned 
the most delicate part, and the ribs the next best. The latter 
are easily divided according to the number of guests, being 
commonly little more than gristle ; there are choice bits also in 
the shoulders and thighs ; the ear also is reckoned a delicacy. 
The portion of stuffing and gravy must not be forgotten by the 
carver. 

A Calf 8 Head, 

When served without boning, either entire or divided, it must 
be carved in slices along the cheek-bone, including the gelati- 
nous skin. The part called the throat sweetbread which lies 
at the neck, and is considered a great delicacy, the flesh of the 



CUISINE, 



eye, and the palate, mtist also be carefully cat oat, to be helped 
when required. 
— Ham, 

A ham for fomily nse is nsaally commenced at the knackle and 
carved in sUcqb as long as it will last ; but the best slices lie in 
the middle, and may be obtained by catting at once down to the 
bone perpendicalarly, and flrom thence drawing thin, even slices. 
The modem method is to cat a round piece Aram the- centre, and 
continue to take smooth circular slices from it, which are thus 
fairly mixed fat and lean ; and the moisture of the ham is pre- 
served. 

Ooose* 

All descriptions of poultry require a nice art in carving, for, if 
the joints are not skilAilly taken off, not only the foul itself is 
rendered unsl^^htly, but the hacked Joint is uneatable, the flavor 
rained, and the appearance disgusting, A goose ought never to 
be entirely carved at table, as the operation is somewhat long 
and cannot be effected without some little difficulty. For a small 
party, the fleshy slices on each side of the breast, till you come 
to the pinion, may be first cut, and then, if it be necessary, the 
legs may be taken off, by putting the fork through the small end 
of the leg bone and pressing it close to the body to raise the 
Joint, then passing the knife under the leg to the joint, and turn- 
ing the leg back with the fork ; and if the goose be young, it will 
easily come away ; or the Joint may be turned from the socket 
with the knife. The upper or thigh bone of the leg is the best 
part next to the breast. If more be needed, the pinions can be 
removed in the same way as the leg, and the merrythought and 
neck bones easily removed. To obtain the staffing, the skin 
below the breast, called the apron, must be opened In a curved 
direction, and the onion, etc., drawn out with a spoon. 

It is a good plan to have the principal Joints of the bird carved 
in the kitchen, and skewered neatly with small o^teZIes before serv- 

Turkey, 
The meat on the breast of a roast or boiled turkey is usually 
sufficient to serve the party, if neatly carved. A sharp knife 
must be passed down to the bone, beginning close to the wing, 
and thin slices taken out, first on one side and then on the other, 
including the forcemeat in the breast, till the whole is exhausted ; 
then, if necessary, though this is rarely required, the legs may 



ftarbarti Collfgr S-tfararg 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 



m 



[oifliisiililil 



^* SMCQJra SBiriM. p 



PRESENTED BY 

/jj>' !>• FOSTER, 

aM-'Washington Street, - - Boston. 

gtac^tiTt f toist, Srtoinig Silhs, 

COTTON AND LINEN THREADS, 
SHTCTTTLES, BOBBIKTS, 

Hand and Seniog machine Findings, Ete. 



si 






Ididica, MlKie*, Boy* Hod Ultli Children at b 



^arbarl) CCoUrge Eibrarn 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 



: n- ■ ■■ '■:■ , .,.. 






\ 



OllSIIi 



SMcotfB Swiriojf. ts 



PRESENTED BY 

y^D. D. FOSTER, 

"iS^^ashington Street, - - Boston. 

glat^iiu f tntst Srtoinig Silks, 

COTTON AND LINEN THREADS. 
SKTCTXXLES, BOBBIETS, 

HiRd and Sening Nacbine Findings, Etc, 



i^ ^^rrMmj^rs @^ ^.^mMEM^Se t-^ 



** Ludlca, BlUiEi, Boy« sad UtUe Chlldre 

fe^ft, ■■■..... 



10 



CVISINE. 



> 



caref\illy. Then take it out of the broth and let It remain to be 
half cold, when the meat must be cut from the bones into square 
pieces of about an inch ; the skin, which is the prime part, should 
have the fat left adhering to it ; the tongue must be cut up in the 
same way. 

Put into a stockpot two ounces of butter and two good-sized 
onions, sliced; shake them over the fire till brown, then place 
over them five pounds of coarse lean beef, and pour over half 
the broth in which the head has been boiled Let it boil till all 
the scum be removed, then add two carrots, two turnips, two 
heads of celery, eight cloves, a quarter of an ounce of eschalots, 
and a small bunch of savory, thyme, m^Joram, and basil, with 
three sprigs of fresh parsley and a quarter of an onnce each of 
allspice and whole black pepper ; add the bones and trimmings 
of the head and the remainder of the broth, and let all stew 
gently for four hours ; then strain off. This Is the stock. Turtle 
and mock turtle soups when served, are much improved by addi- 
tion of a dessert spoonfkil to a plate of Halford Leicestershire 
table sauce. 

Thickening. 

C oz. butter : 6 oz. flour : i oz. lemon-peel : i oz. eschalots : i 
oz. sage : \ oz. savory. 

Put six ounces of butter into a clean stewpan, and gradually 
blend with it six ounces of flour : smooth it by adding half a pint 
of the stock. 

In another pan put half a pint of stock with a quarter of an 
ounce each of grated lemon-peel, eschalots, sage, and savory. 
Boil for half an hour, strain, and rub the herbs through a tamis ; 
then blend the liquor with the thickening, and strain all into the 
stock. Let it simmer over the Are for an hour, with the squares 
of meat added, and then make ready the seasoning, as below. 

The seasoning to be added must be two teaspoonfhls of lemon- 
juice, two of mushroom ketchup, and one of anchovy, the very 
thin peel of a lemon, and a pint of Madeira or sherry ; simmer 
five minutes, take out the lemon-peel, then add the quenelles^ as 
for turtle soup, and, if required, brain-balls and egg-balls, as in 
the following receipts, and the soup is ready for the tureen. It 
ought to be reduced by the boiling to four or five quarts. 

Vegetable Soup, 

Time, four hours and a half. Three onions ; six potatoes ; six 
carrots ; four turnips ; half a pound of butter ; four quarts of 



CUJSIl^E. 



11 



crater; one head of celery; a spoonftil of catsup; a bunch of 
STveet herbs. 

Peel, slice, and try the yegetables, etc., in half a pound of but- 
ter, and pour over them two quarts of boiling water ; let them 
stew slowly for four hours, then strain through a coarse cloth or 
sieve ; put the soup into the stewpan with the head of celery. 

3tew till tender. 

Pea Soup without Meat. 

Time, three hours. One pint of split peas ; three quarts of 
spring water ; six large onions ; outside, sticks of two heads of 
celery ; one bunch of sweet herbs ; two carrots ; a little dried 
mint ; a handAil of spinach ; a few bones, or tiny pieces of bacon, 
flavoi' it nicely ; pepper and salt to your taste. 

Boll all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and 
tender; strain them through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot 
pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the 
best part of the celery, and a teaspoonfhl of pepper, add a little 
dried mint and firied bread, with a little spinach. A few roast- 
beef bones, or a slice of bacon, will be an improvement. 

Bice Soup. 

Tinie, three hours and ten minutes. One pound of lean ham; 
two pounds of lean veal; two pounds of gravy beef; four onions ; 
three heads of celery, two turnips, one carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; four cloves ; one blade of mace ; a quarter of a pound of 
rice. 

Cut the ham into slices, and put it at the bottom of a stewpan ; 
cut the veal and beef into small pieces and lay them on the ham, 
with four onions, two turnips, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three heads of celery, all cut small. Pour on them half a 
pint of water, seasoned with pepper and salt. Set it over a 
quick fire for half an hour, shaking it about to prevent its burn- 
ing ; then add three quarts of boiling water, stew it gently fo( 
two hours and a half, skim it well, and then strain it through a 
sieve. Have ready four ounces of rice, boiled in two quarts of 
water till tender, drain it dry, and put it into your soup, with a 
spoonful of browning. Boll it for ten minutes, and serve with 

fried bread. 

OX'Tail Soup. 

Time, four hours and a half. Two ox-tails ; a quarter of a 

pound of lean ham; a head and a half of celery; two carrots; 

two turnips ; two onions ; a bunch of savory herbs ; five cloves ; 



J2 



CUISINE, 



a wloc glass of catsup, and one of port wine, with three quarts 
of water, 

Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the Joints ; put them 
into a stewpan with about an ounce and a half of butter, a heacL 
of celery, two onions, two turnips and two carrots cut into 
slices, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham cut very thin ; the 
pepper corns and savory herbs, and about half a pint of cold 
water. Stir it over a quick flre for a short time to extract the 
flavor of the herbs, or until the pan is covered with a glaze. 
Then pour in three quarts of water, skim it well, and simmer 
slowly for four hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them 
out, strain the soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it, add a glass 
of port wine, the catsup, and half a head of celery (previously 
boiled and cut into small pieces). Put^the pieces of tail into 
the stewpan with the strained soup. Boil it up for a few 
minutes, and serve. 

This soup can be served clear, by omitting the flour and adding 
to it carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, with a head of 
celery in slices. These may be boiled in a little of the soup, 
and put it into the tureen before sending it to table. 

Julienne Soup. 

Time, one hour and a half. Three-quarters of a pound of 
carrots, turnips, celery, onions ; one large cabbage-lettuce ; two 
ounces of butter ; two lumps of sugar : five pints of clear soup, 
or medium stock. 

Weigh three-quarters of a pound of the above-named vegeta- 
bles, and cut them into strips of about an inch and a half long, 
taking care they are all the same size ; wash them In cold water, 
and drain them very dry ; then put them into a stewpan witli the 
butter, and the sugar pounded. Set It over a quick flre for a 
few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are covered 
with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to 
bum ; then add Ave pints of clear soup, or medium stock, cut 
the lettuce into pieces, and put it into the soup, and let it all 
stew gently for an hour or more. 

Good Plain Gravy Soup, 

Take eight pounds of shin of beef; let the butcher break the 
bones ; put it into a stewpan, and cover with a gallon of cold 
water. Bring it slowly to a boil over a gentle flre, carefUUy 
skimming it till no more scum will rise, then throw in an ounce 
and a half of salt, a dozen black peppercorns, a large bunch of 



PRESTON & MERRILL 

This firm originally was formed in 1845, and is thus one of the oldest in the 
city. The original partners were JOSHUA P. PRESTON and J. WAUREN 
MERRILL; but more recently they have admitted Mr. GEO. D. EDMANDS. 
"who had long been in their employ, as a member. 

This firm have turned their attention particularly to the manufacture of 
Articles for Domestic and. Culinary Purposes, and they have been 
always of their own invention. 

The Cooking or Flavoring Extracts of Lemon, 
Vanilla, Orange, Peach, Rose, etc. 

Were first made and introduced to the market by them. These extracts are 
derived from the natural fruits, flowers and spices, and are all the exact flavors 
of the articles they represent. 

They also originated the Celebrated Infallible Y«ast Povrder, which 
has become well known throughout the world as a sure article for raising bread, 
tea-biscuit, butter cakes, etc. 

This article has enjoyed a very extensive sale at the S >uth and West, and among 
the miners of Culiftirnia, Montana, Colorado, etc., and is particularly adapted to 
meet the wants of populations where skilled cooks do not abound. One of the 
prime necessities of human life is good bread, made light, and consequently 
DUtritious and digestible by some substance not in any way injurious. The im- 
mense and constantly increasing sale of this article for twenty-five years proves 
that they have attained this dcsderatnm. It may be asserted that a large pro- 
portion of the miners of California lived for years on bread raised with this 
article, and a more healthful, vigorous, and hard working population cannot be 
found the world over. 

Hosts of imitators and competitors have risen all over the land, and their arti- 
cles, under the name of Baking Powders, etc., have tended to bring everything 
of the kind into disrepute by their failures; but Messrs. PRESTON & MEIi- 
RILL defend their trade mark — << Infallible Yeast Poiv'der *' ~ against 
all comers, and by steadily maintaining the quality of their article secure the 
confidence of the public. 

They also manufacture Brasive Salty an article used for removing stains of 
ink, iron rust, wine, fruit, etc., from white or bleached goods, which it does 
in the most thorough manner, and without the least injury to the most delicate 
fabric. 

Another article manufactured and originated by them, they call Portable 
Iien&ona<1e, or Sugar of Ijcn&ons. 

This meets a great want. It is in the form of a powder put up in lb. cans, and 
is convenient for transportation. It has stood the test of twenty -fi\e years in 
all countries and climates as the best substitute for fresh lemons ever invented. 
During the late war large quantities of it were sent South and We <t by the 
United States Sanitary Commission, and it gave great comfort, and materially 
aided the recovery of the soldiers in many hospitals. 

Arctic explorers and others on long voyages have found this article almost 
invaluable, particularly as a preventive of scurvy, and as making a cooling drink 
in cases of fever. It is just the article wanted by mining, fishing, camping and 
picnic paitics. 

Office, 77 State Street, Boston. 



KIDDBB'S 

TONIC POWDER! 



By careful manipulation, this Powder is so prepared that Quinine (the active 
principle of Peruvian Bark) in combined with other tonics and aromatics, and. 
the Powder made perfectly 8olnl»le in water, and ngreenblo to the tasie. The 
formula for the preparation of this article has been submitted to many of our 
leading physicians. Tlicy have thoroughly tiled the article in their practice, 
and give it their unqualified approval. 

For all diseases arising from derangement of the digestive organs, such as 

General Debtlityy Lots of Appetite, LiO-wness of Spirits, Jaun- 
dice, Heartburn, Flatulence, etc., It is recommended* 

HUNDREDS OF DYSPEPTICS 

Can testify to the relief experienced by using this article. 

In many cases of Dyspepsia or Indigestion, wine or spirit is objectionable to 
the stomach, while insume.it is of the great<*st advantage. For all cases this 
article is admirably adapted, as the full effect i« obtained whether taken in pow- 
der or dissolved in Mater; wine or spirit may be added, if thought desiralile. 

It is good in all climates; at Sea, on the Plnins and at fhe mines 
it is invaluable, from the fact that the effect is eqnally good when taken in the 
dry state, thereby rendering it available under all circumstances. 

It is of great value in malaria districts. The use of it is a 

Sure Preuentiue of Feuer and Ague. 

It Is particularly recommended as a Tonic to persons recovering from Fever or 
other diseases, — a small quantity producing a glow in the stomach equal tea 
wine-glass full of brandy, without anv of the unpleasant effects which are sure 
to lollow the i:se of liquor of any kind. 

One great difficulty inebriates have found in their attempts at reformation has 
been the craving of the stomach for some stimulant, which this article will sup* 
ply. giving strength to resist temptation. 

The well known stimulant, Ginger, enters largely into the compound, and in 
cases of Nausea of the IStomach, from whatever cause, particularly sea-sickness, 
it will be found of great value. 

The principle cause of sickness while travelling is the change in water, pro* 
ducing derangement of the stomach and bowels. The use of this article will so 
fortify the stomach as to remove all danger. 

FOE SALE BY DBUOaiSTS aENEBALLT. 

STOWELL & CO., Charlestown, Mass. 



KIDDER'S PASTILLES, 

A SUBE BELIEF FOB ASTHMA. 



\ 
\ 



1 . — 



CUISINE. 



13 



sweet herbs, two onions sliced and fried brown, and three cloves. 

Let it simmer gently for four hours, then take out the meat, 

which can be kept hot, or set by for cold. Strain the soup, and 

let it stand all night. When wanted, remove the fat, and set it 

on the fire to heat gently for an hour. If approved, you can add 

carrot, turnip, and celery, cut in pieces and stewed in the soup ; 

but if required clear, nothing must be added except a table- 

spoonfol of mushroom ketchup. Serve with toasted bread in 

squares. 

Bich Brown Gravy Soup, 

Take four pounds of beef steak, quite lean, and fry it light 

brown with three sliced onions ; put Into a stewpan four ounces 

of batter, and when dissolved, shake it round the pan, and lay in 

the meat and onions with a carrot, a turnip, and a head of celery, 

sliced, a blade of mace, two teaspoonfUls of salt, and a drachm 

of Cayenne. Pour over a quart of clear stock, and stew gently, 

adding by degrees two quarts of water, and carefully removing 

the scum as it rises. ' Let it simmer for six hours, then strain, 

and, when cool, clear it of the fat. When heated, add a glass of 

Medeira or sherry. This is a strong and rich soup. Serve with 

boiled macaroni cut in pieces in it. v 

Good Family Soup. 
Take two pounds of coarse lean beef and a half a pound of 
lean bacon in thin slices, and try them with three slices of 
onions and a small flresh cabbage, chopped. Put all into a stew- 
pan with two pounds of potatoes, three ounces of rice, two 
carrots, and one turnip, sliced, two teaspoonfiils of salt, and one 
of pepper. Pour over at first two quarts of water, and set the 
pan over a slow fire ; skim careftdly, and add by degrees two 
quarts more of water. Take out the potatoes when done, and 
mash them. After it has stewed three hours, take out the meat, 
and let the soup simmer another hour; then strain it, and 
thicken it with the potatoes rubbed through a colander. 

A very excellent Mutton Broth. 
Take a neck of mutton about six or seven pounds in weight, 
and divide it into two pieces. Put the scrag end into a stewpan 
with two quarts of cold water, and set it on a slow fire till all 
the scum rise and be cleared off; then put in an onion with three 
cloves stuck in it, a crust of bread, eight black peppercorns, one 
blade of mace, and a small carrot, and let the whole stew gently 
for an hour. Pare the skin and fat off the other half of the 



14 



cmsiNK 



matton, add one qaart of stock, and put the meat into the broth 
with five turnips, and let all simmer slowly another hour and a 
half; take out the turnips, press the water from them, and beat 
them quite into a smooth paste, with a teaspoonfhl of fialt and 
as much good cream as will moisten them. Then take out the 
best end of the mutton, and keep it and the tnrnip qaite hot till 
the broth be ready. Skim off the fat, strain it, and simmer it 
for five minutes longer with a bunch of parsley, chopped small, 
and half a dozen marigold petals. Season with two teaspoon- 
fdls of salt, and serve it with sippets of toast. The mutton 
which has been kept hot must be served in a separate, dish, with 
the mashed turnips placed neatly around it. 

Veal Broth, 

Lay a moderate-sized knuckle of veal into the stewpan with a 
quarter of a pound of rice and a tablespoonftil of salt. Pour 
over three quarts of cold water, and simmer over a slow fire an 
hour and a half, till you have removed all the scum. Then add a 
teaspoonftd of white pepper, a blade of mace, and two small 
onions. Stew for another hour and a half, then take out the 
meat, and serve the broth in a tureen. 

This is a cheap and good family soup. 

Ihxellent Veal Soup, 

Put four pounds of knuckle or leg of veal into a stewpan, with 
any other bones you may have in the house, half a pound of lean 
ham, and a quarter of a pound of rice. Add an onion with two 
cloves stuck in it, two blades of mace, six white peppercorns, a 
head of celery, and a tablespoonftil of salt. Pour over them two 
quarts of cold water, and stew gently for two hours. Then 
take out the meat, and add a quart of clear white stock, and con- 
tinue to simmer the broth for three hours longer. Strain it, and 
serve with sippets. 

The veal may be dished to eat with egg sauce or parsley sauce. 

Chicken Broth, 

Cut up an old fowl, cover it with a quart of water, and stew it 
gently till it be done to rags, keeping up the quantity of liquor by 
adding a little water as it wastes. Season with a teaspoonfkil of 
mixed salt and pepper and a blade of mace, and add a slice of 
onion. If not objected to, a quarter of an ounce of almonds, 
pounded with a teaspoonftd of water, and stirred into the broth, 
improves the flavor. When all the nutriment is extracted from 
the fowl, strain the broth and let it stand to cool, and remove 



CUISINE. 



15 



the fat before it is heated for use. This is chiefly used for 
invalids. 

A nutritious Chicken Broth, 

Cat the flesh off an old fowl, and break up the bones, and put 
into a stewpan, with two pounds of lean beef, cut into small 
pieces. Season only with a teaspoonfUl of salt ; cover with a 
quart of cold water, keeping up the quantity by adding a little as 
required. Simmer for three hours, then strain it for use. A 
teacupftil will contain great nourishment. 

Chicken Essence, or Distilled Chicken. 

When it is necessary to administer support in a concentrated 
form, this preparation is invaluable, as a single teaspoonfUl affords 
great nourishment: 

Cut up a juicy chicken into pieces, put it into a wide-mouthed 
bottle or jar, sprinkle over it half a teaspoonfUl of salt, cover it 
with a bladder in which a few holes may be pricked. Place the 
bottle on the hob, or a hot hearth ; as it heats, the liquor distilled 
ftom the meat wiU rise and must be poured off. It is at once 
pleasant to the taste and highly nutritious. 

FISH. 

Fish is a delicious adjunct to the dinner table, and in some 
fleimilies may suffice for a good dinner by itself; but it requires 
nice and careftd dressing. What can be more unappetizing than 
a fish brought to table broken all to pieces, as we have seen it, or 
not haif done — salmon red with blood — cod nearly raw — or 
mackerel not properly cleaned ? It is a wicked waste of the pro- 
vision God has made for his creatures to thus spoil it, when a 
little attention and study may preserve it for us. It is proper to 
be remembered, that on serving flsh of any description, a des9ert 
spoonful of the Halford Leicestershire table sauce give a deiicious 
flavor. 

There is no operation of cooking more simple in principle, and 
yet so rarely successful in practice, as that of dressing flsh. The 
cause of this failure is obviously the reluctance that a common 
cook usually has to abide by the necessary rules of attention and 
accuracy: and thus it happens that we so frequently see flsh 
brought to table over-boiled, under-boiled, scorched, greasy, or 
broken into fragments ; offensive to sight and to taste, and wholly 
unfit for digestion. 

In the first place, the following rules should be strictly at- 
tended to t 



16 



CUISINE. 



] 



The fish mast be in season, — some time before it begins to 
spawn, or sometime after the spawning; otherwise it wijl be 
unwholesome, if not actaally dangeroas. It must be perfectly 
fresh ; if possible, it should be alive on the day it is cooked. 

Next, it must be cleaned with the greatest care and nicety. 

Above all, it should be cooked in the mode best suited to its 
nature* 

To choose Fish, 

It is the business .of the cook to choose fish, and requires Judg- 
ment and attention. 

When perfectly fresh, the fish will feel firm and stiff; the gills 
will be of a bright red and the eyes bright. The flesh should be 
elastic, rising again if pressed by the fingers ; and the fresh sea- 
water smell should be pleasant to the sense. If the eyes be dim, 
the flesh flabby, and the smell oflbnsive, the flsh is stale and 
worthless. 

To Fry Fish. 

Cleanse them thoroughly, dry them on a folded doth, dredge 
flour lightly oyer them, brush them with a well-beaten e§^^ then 
dip them in flne bread crumbs. 

Have ready enough flne oil, or melted lard or beef dripping 
(clarified), to entirely cover the flsh. Place the frying-pan over 
a clear fire. Let the lard, reach boiling point, and then immerse 
the flsh in it. You may try whether the fat is hot enough by let- 
ting a drop of cold water ftiU into it from the end of your spoon. 
If the hot fat spits it is ready for use. Then f^, turning the flsh 
(when one side is browned) to the other. When it is done, lay 
it on a cloth, or on white blotting paper, to drain off all the fat ; 
or put it on a reversed sieve for a little while. Serve it ex- 
tremely dry on a white cloth or embossed flsh paper. 

To Broil Fish, 

A clear flre is required. Rub the parts of your gridiron with 

dripping, or a piece of beef suet, to prevent the flsh sticking to 

it. Put a good piece of butter into a dish, work into it enough 

salt and pepper to season the flsh. Lay the flsh on it when it is 

broiled, and with a knife-blade put the butter over every part. 

Serve very hot. 

OOD. 

A CODFISH should never be boiled whole ; for, being so much 
thicker at the upper part than at the tail, the thin part would be 
boiled to rags before the rest was cooked. The head and shoul- 



THB ORIGINAL 

HOWE SEWING MACHINES 



^" 03r AS EASY TERMS AS ANT. .£\ 

FOR FAMILY USE the new ImproTed Letter A fau no equal, runi irllh leu 
than kOf Bevlng Maeblne In the market. 

They stitch, hem, fell, tuck, gather and lew on, bind, cord, 
braid, etc., etc., in short do the worltof ali others combined. 

For mnnnbcturers of CLalhing, Booti and Bhoeii. HsU, Capi, Lsdlei* Gar- 
aide* are wadled, tbej are oniurpaued. 

Every nichine warranted lo %Vit perTeet SBtiifacUon. 

Be snre and see them before parcbasing elsewhere. 

OLD MACHINES TAKEN IN EXCHANGE. 

NEW ENGLAND OFFICE AND SALESROOM, 

48 & 50 Temple Place, Boston. 

E. VARNEY, Manager. 



JL. P. HOLLANDER ^ CO. 



^ 



^UCCESSOI\S "TO 



JA., y. MOLLANDEI^ & Co. 




OYS» 




USTOAl 




LOTHING, 



2 2 Temple Place, Boston. 



' ^•» P~ 



L. P. HOLLANDER 



8f CO. 




USTOM 



T AILOI^ 



32 Te/viple Place, 



BOSTON. 



cuisme. 



n 



ders are nsoally boiled, and tire rest fHed, boiled, or stewed in 
flUets; the tongue, liver, roe, and sounds, most be preserved. 
Cod as well as salmon is tliooght to be improved by crimping, 
wliich may be effected by following the directions below. 

To Bail a Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

This is a very handsome dish of fish to place on the table if 
carefhUy cooked ; and is in the best season about December or 
January. Wash and clean the head scrupulously ; bind it with 
tape to prevent the cheeks breaking; then put it into the kettle, 
covered with cold water, in which fh)m four to eight ounces of 
salt have been thrown^ according to the size of the jowl ; add a 
wine-glass of vinegar and a spoonlUl of scraped horse-radish ; as 
soon as it reaches the boiling point, withdraw the kettle to one 
side, and keep it simmering, removing the scum as it rises. The* 
liver and roe should be boiled separate in the kettle for garnish- 
ing. A moderate-sized Jowl will require half an hour, and pro- 
portlonably longer when large ; but if the flesh parts easily firom 
the bone, you may conclude the fish is done. Drain, and dish 
on a hot napkin; garnish with scraped horse-radish; and the 
liver, tongue, and roe, placed on each side. Oyster or cockle 
sauce and plain melted butter may be served with this. 

As a general observation, it may be added, that it when boiled 
the flesh appears semi-transparent, it is out of season and un- 
wholesome. 

To Hoast a CocPs Head and Shoulders, 

Prepare the Jowl for boiling as in the last receipt ; set it over 
the Qre, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes ; then take it up, 
skin it and roast it before a quick fire for fifteen minutes longer, 
basting it well with butter. Five minutes before you take it up, 
cover it well with bread-crumbs, and let it brown ; then serve it 
with the roe and liver sliced, and garnished with slices of lemon. 
Send in only plain melted butter. 

To Stew Codfish in Slices, 

The tail-end of the cod is always best cooked in slices ; it is 
sometimes boiled in the same way as the thick part, but is always 
more approved stewed or ftted. 

Cut up about four pounds of the tail-end of a cod into slices 
rather more than an inch thick ; leave them for ten minutes in 
salt and water, then try them in butter till about half done ; put 
the slices into a stewpan, with a teaspoonfhl of salt, half the 
quantity of white pepper, half a small nutmeg, grated; try an 



18 CUISINE, 



onion sliced in batter, and put in with the batter ftoxa the firy- 
ing-pan into the stewpan ; then pour over it a pint of sherry, the 
same quantity of water, and three ounces of butter, rubbed 
smooth with a tablespoonftil of flour; let it simmer five minutes, 
then add .twelve or fifteen oysters, chopped small and a teaspoon- 
ftil of lemon Juice. When the stew has simmered ten miautes 
longer, take out the fish and place it neatly on the dish ; then 
strain the liquor in which it has been stewed, and pour over the 
fillets. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

To Fry or BroU Codfish. 
The lower part of the fish is used for firying, and is always 
best crimped. It must be cut into slices rather more than an 
inch thick, dredged with fiour, sprinkle lightly with salt and 
grated nutmeg ; then fried in a pan filled with boiling oil or lard, 
and served on a nap|dn, garnished with fried parsley, and ac- 
companied by plain melted butter. The slices may be broiled 
with the same preparation. 

To Broil Cod Sounds. 

Steep the sounds for half an hour in hot water ; then scrape 
away the dark covering, and put them on the fire to simnier for 
fifteen minutes. Take them out of the water, dredge them with 
fiour, and put on the gridiron to broil. While this is doing, 
brown four ounces of butter rubbed into two spoonftils of flour 
in the ftying-pan, add a drachm of Cayenne pepper, and twice 
as much unmixed mustard, a teaspoonftil of soy, and as soon 
as the broiled sounds are dished, pour the fined gravy over them 
and serve. 

To Fry Cod Sounds. 

Cut sounds into fillets, dip them in eggs, then in fine bread- 
crumbs and grated nutmeg ; fry them in oil with sliced onion, 
and serve them on a napkin with good oyster sauc^ 

Cod Scalloped. 
Butter a large earthenware scallop-dish, and place in it neat 
flakes of the cold flsh, with any of the gelatine left; line the bot- 
tom of the dish, and then pour over it any of the sauce or melted 
butter that has been sent to table with the flsh. Sprinkle the 
flsh lightly with salt, Cayenne pepper, and powdered mace; 
place alternate layers of flsh and sauce till the dish is filled; 
then cover it well with flne bread crumbs seasoned in the same 
way ; break two ounces of butter into small pieces and stick 



CUISINK 19 



over the crumbs ; pat the dish into an oven, and bake for twenty 
minntes. This is a useftil and pretty dish of little cost. 

Cod Sounds as Chickens. 

In a dinner, where a variety of dishes are required, cod 

sounds may be dressed to form a pretty and very excellent side 

dish. Let three good-sized sounds be scraped and scalded till 

quite clean and white, then boll them for fifteen minutes, take 

them oat and leave them to cool. Chop one dozen oysters, 

small, add half a teaspoonfhl each of salt and T^hite pepper, a 

blade of mace pounded, fbur ounces of butter, and three table- 

spoonftils of fine bread crumbs : bind these together with the 

yolks of two eggs, well beat, and spread the forcemeat over the 

sounds; then roll each one up and truss it in the form of a 

chicken; dredge them well with flour, put them into an oven, 

basting them continually with butter. In fifteen minutes more, 

they will be roasted ; then serve with oyster sauce poured over 

them. 

HAUBX7T, 

To Boil Halibut, 
As the large fish are always the best, it is advisable to have a 
piece cut off the size yoa require ; boil it like turbot, except that 
the fins must be removed, and one-third more of salt added to 
the water. It will require ftilly the same time to boil as the 
turbot, and should be served with the same sauces. 

To Bake Halibut, 

We can recommend this as a delicate and economical dish, 
and the best mode of dressing the fish, except in a pie. 

Take about five pounds of halibut, the head and shoulders is 
the best part, put it into a buttered baking-dish, dredge it with 
flour, strew over it two teaspoonltils of salt, one drachm of 
Cayenne pepper, and one blade of mace in powder. Break five 
ounces of butter into small pieces and spread over It, then put 
it into a moderate oven and let it bake twenty minutes. No 
water must be put to it, but a glass of sherry may be added, if 
chosen, though we think the fish is more delicious without it. 
After the fish is dished, the gravy must be thickened with a 
little flour and butter, and poured over it. Plain melted butter 
and Ualford*s Leicestershire table sauce maybe served with 
it. 

To Stew Halibut. 

Place the head and shoulders of a moderate-sized halibut in" 



20 



CUISINE, 



a stewpan with a teaspoonfUl of chopped parsley, the same of 
thyme, one clove of garlic, chopped small, two teaspoonftils of 
salt, and half the quantity of white pepper, and two ounces of 
butter rubbed into flour. Pour over it as much fresh beer or 
port wine as will barely coyer the fish. Let it stew gently over 
the Are ftom twenty to thirty minutes, then add a tablespoonfUl 
of lemon-juice, and the same quantity of mushroom ketchup. 
Take out the flsh, and stir into the sauce four ounces of butter 
rubbed into two tablespoonfUls of flour, give it a boil, and 
pour over the flsh. Serve with sliced lemon. 

MAOKEBEIj. 

Mackerel are wholly unfit for food if not perfectly A*esh ; when 
the colors are bright, the body smooth and firm, and the tail stiff 
and unbending. Though brought to market later, they are only in 
fine condition fh)m June to Augnst. When dressed fresh from 
the water, no flsh is more approved than the mackerel, which 
may be cooked in any mode ; the most objectionable being boil- 
ing, which renders the flesh dry, insipid, and indigestible. The 
roe of the mackerel is a delicacy which must always be pre- 
served, to dress and send in with the flsh, or to add to the 
sauce. 

To Boil Mackerel. 

Empty and wash the flsh thoroughly, removing the roe, which 
will require three or four minutes longer boiling than the flsh. 
Put them into cold salt and water, and allow them to simmer till 
done, when the eyes will start and the tail split ; from fifteen to 
twenty minutes, according to size, is the usuallime. Serve them 
with the roe, and Halford sauce. 

To Broil Mackerel. 

Clean and carefUlly wipe a good-sized fish, split it entirely down 
the back, put a little oil over the fish with a feather, lest the del- 
icate skin should be broken by the gridiron, the bars of which 
must be rubbed with fresh suet. Chop a little parsley and fennel 
very fine, seasoned with pepper and salt, and rubbed into a thin 
slice of butter, fill the back of the mackerel with this mi3[tnre 
before you put it on the gridiron, and then broil it slowly over a 
clear fire ; it will require from twenty to thirty minutes to cook 
it thoroughly. Serve with sauce. 

To Fry Mackerel* 

Prepare the mackerel as for boiling ; split up the back, and fill 
up with the stufitog, then dip in eggs and crumbs, and fry in as 



CUISINE. 

*t 



21 



mnch oil or lard as will float the flsh ; drain it thoroughly and 
serve with the roe sauce, or parsley butter. If the mackerel be 
thick, it will require twenty minutes to cook it perfectly. 

To Bake Mackerel, 

Clean the flsh, cut off the heads, take out and wash the roes, 
and then put them again into the flsh ; powder the fish lightly 
within and without with a mixture of salt, pepper, and finely- 
chopped parsley ; arrange them neatly in a baking dish. Pour 
over them a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of clar- 
ified bntter. Then put into the oven and bake for half an hour ; 
remove them in a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve 
with parsley butter. 

BAIOfON. 
Boiled Salmon. 

TiMB, according to weight. One salmon ; four ounces of salt 
to one gallon of water. 

Salmon is put into warm water Instead of cold, in order-to 
preserve its color and set the curd. It should be thoroughly well 
dressed to be wholesome. 

Scale it ; empty and wash it with the greatest care. Do not 
leave any blood on the inside that you can remove. 

Boil the salt rapidly in the fish-kettle for a minute or two, tak- 
ing off the scum as it rises ; put in the salmon, and let it boil 
gently till it is thoroughly done. Take it AK>m the water on the 
fish-plate, let it drain, put it on a hot folded fish-napkin, and 
garnish with slices of lemon. Sauce : shrimp or lobster. 

Send up dressed cucumber with salmon when In season. 

Middle Slice of Salmon. 

Time, ten minutes to the pound. Middle piece or slice. 

Boil slowly in salt and water. Salmon should be put into warm 
water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. Serve on a nap- 
kin. Sauce ; lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter and pars- 
ley. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Slices f^om the middle of a sal- 
mon : one tablespoonftil of flour ; a sheet or two of oiled letter 
paper ; a little Cayenne pepper. 

Cut slices of an inch or an inch and a half thick from the middle 
of a large salmon ; dust a little Cayenne pepper over them ; wrap 
them in oUed or buttered paper, and broil them over a clear fire, 
first rubbing the bars of the gridiron with suet. 



22 



CUISINE. 



Broiled salmon is extremely rich and really requires no sauce ; 
nevertheless, one- especially intended for it will be found among 
the list of sauces. 

The slices may also be simply dried in a cloth, floured, and 
boiled over a clear fire ; but they require the greatest care then 
to preverft them ftom burning. The gridiron is always rubbed 
with suet first. 

Salmon Trout, 

This fish, though not of the same species as the salmon, and 
much inferior in quality, somewhat resembles it in flavor, and 
may be dressed in any mode directed either for dressing salmon 
or trout ; but is most commonly boiled trussed, with the tail in 
the mouth, and served with fennel sauce* 

TBOUT. * 

To Boil Trout-" Isaac Walton's Recipe, 

** Wash and dry your trout with a clean napkin, empty, and 
wipe very clean within ; but wash him not, and give him three 
scotches to the bone on one side only. Take a clean kettle, and 
put in as much hard, stale beer vinegar, and a little white wine 
and water as will cover your fish ; and throw in a good quantity 
of salt, the rind of a lemon, a handful of sliced horse-radish, 
and a handsome light fagot of rosemary, thyme, and winter 
savory. Set the kettle on a quick fire, and let it boil up to the 
height before you put in your fish ; and if there be many, put in 
one at a time, that they may not so cool the liquor as to make it 
fall ; and while your fish is boiling, beat up the butter for your 
sauce with a ladleftil or two of the liquor it is boiling in ; and 
being boiled enough, pour the liquor flrom the fish ; and being 
laid on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and strew horse-radish 
and a little pounded ginger. Garnish with sliced lemon." 

To BroU Trout. 

Choose trout of the middle size ; empty, wash, and wipe them ; 
then dip them in melted butter, and broil them over a clear fire. 
Serve with parsley, butter, or Halford sauce. 

To Fry Trout. 

The most approved way to dress trout is to fry them simply : 
the flavor of the delicate flsh is best preserved by this mode of 
cooking. Empty, wash, and dry them before the fire ; dust them 
over with flour, and fty them in plenty of oil or lard; then 
drain them thoroughly, and serve with plain melted butter. 
Garnish with parsley. 



J 



CUISINE. 



23 



To Bake TVottt. 
If the anglers bring in a fUU pannier of trout, it is sometimes 
convenient to bake a dish, which is delicioas to eat cold. Place 
the fish properly cleaned in a baking-pan ; make a seasoning of 
the nsaal proportions of pepper, salt and mace, with a table- 
spoonfhl of chopped parsley, and sprinkle each layer, adding a 
thin slice of batter on each fish. Bake for half an hour. If 
served hot, the gravy mnst be mixed with plain melted batter 
to send ap as sauce. 

Troat are excellent potted in the same way as salmon. 

PJBiBOH. 
It is so difficult to scale perch, thai some people have them 
boiled with the scales on, as they come off easily afterward. 

To Bail Perch* 
Time, half an hour, if large. Cut off the spines from the 
back, scrape off the scales with an oyster knife, and thoroughly 
clean and wash them. Then boil them in cold water very care- 
Ailly, as they are a most delicate fish. 

To Pry Perek Plain. 
Time, twelve minutes. When the perch are scaled, gutted, 
and washed, dry them well with a cloth, and lay them out singly 
before the fire for a few minutes. Flour them well, and try 
them a fine brown in plenty of good dripping. Serve them with 
melted butter and crisped parsley. The Halford Leicestershire 
table sauce is highly recommended for use upon fish. 



Lobiters and Crab»* 

Thb lobster, which is in good season from September to June, 
should be bought living, and plunged into boiling water in which 
a good proportion of salt has been mixed, which destroys life 
immediately. It most continue to boil, according to size, Arom 
twenty minutes to an hour. The crab should be boUed in the 
same manner, but little more than half the time is necessary. 

To send up Lobster cold. 

Take off the large claws, and crack them lightly without brais- 
ing the flesh ; lay open the tail with a sharp knife, and dish up 
the fish neatly on a napkin. Garnish with parsley. 

To dress Crab cold. 

Two crabs must be opened and all the soft creamy part taken 
out on a plate ; add to it the white meat from the claws ; mix 
the meat well with a tablespoonfrd of mustard, two tablespoon- 



24 



CUISINE. 



ftils of vinegar, a teaspoonM of white pepper, and half a salt- 

spoonftil of Cayenne. Then wash and clean one crabshell and 

put all the meat into it and serve, garnished with parsley and 

the small claws. 

To fitew Lobster or Crab, 

Take ont the white and red meat of two lobsters or crabs, cat 
it into squares, and put it into a stewpan with four ounces of 
butter, a tablespoonfbl of mustard, the same of vinegar, a tea- 
spoonAil of mixed salt and pepper, and a pinch of Cayenne. I^et 
it simmer for ten minutes, then add two gla^sses of sherry, and 
simmer five minutes longer. Serve it with sliced lemon. 

To Butter Lobster. 

Pick the meat Arom two lobsters, and put into a stewpan, 
minced, with a teaspoonAil of salt and pepper mixed, half the 
quantity of grated nutmeg, two teaspoonftils of vinegar, and two 
glasses of white wine. As soon as It is heated, add two ounces 
of butter rubbed in flour, and mixed with a quarter of a pint of 
cream ; let all get well blended with the fish for ten minutes ; 
then clean the shell of one lobster, split in two Arom the head to 
the tail; put the shells on a dish, and fill: them with the buttered 
lobster. Garnish with lemon and sippets of bread. 

OYSTERS. 

EvBRYBODT seems to know everything that can be said abont 
oysters, — that they are in season in all the months that contain 
the letter B, that they are a luxury which all must learn to enjoy, 
though all shrink i^om the first attempt to swallow a fellow-crea- 
ture alive ; that they are decidedly wholesome ; and that they 
harmonize with brown bread and butter. It is well known that 
oysters, combined with a milk diet, are most beneficial where a 
tendency to consumption exists. Of course they should be eaten 
with moderation, and are most wholesome raw, with a little pep- 
per only. 

When sent to table, they are always opened Just before ; the 
liquor careftdly preserved with the oyster in the under shell, and 
pepper and vinegar added to taste. They are usually oiOTered to 
each person on a separate plate before or after the soup. 

To Broil Oysters, 

Open and leave the oyster on the lower shell with the liquor, 
strew a little pepper into each shell, and place them carefhlly on 
a gridiron ; as soon as perfectly hot, serve them in the shells 
with slices of brown bread and butter. 



CUISINE, 25 



To Fi^ Oysters. 

Choose large, plump oysters ; open and beard them ; pat them 
into a stewpan with their own liqaor only, and simmer for three 
minutes, then dip them into batter, and fry in a quantity of oil 
or butter a delicate brown ; add no seasoning, but serve with 
bread and butter, or round boiled flsh. 

To Stew Oysters, 

Open as many good, fresh oysters as will measure a pint un- 
shelled, beard them, and put them into a stewpan with the whole 
of the liquor from the shells ; add a blade of mace and half a 
dozen white peppercorns, and simmer very gently for five min- 
utes ; then add a quarter of a pint of cream and two ounces of 
butter rolled in flour, and continue to simmer for five minutes 
longer, being very careM not to allow them to boil, or the oyster 
will become hard. Just before taking from the fire, a large tea- 
spoonfhl of lemon-Juice may be added; but any addition must 
be made carefhlly, lest the delicate and peculiar flavor of the 
oyster should be injured. Serve with toasted sippets. 

To Scallop Oysters, 

Open a pint of. oysters and put them with their own liquor in 
a stewpan to heat for flve minutes ; then take them out and beard 
them, strain the liquor, add to it three oxmces of butter rolled in 
flour, and put the oysters in it for five minutes more ; butter a 
scallop shell and strew it with crumbs, then put a layer of oysters 
and layer of crumbs, with thin slices of butter over them, till the 
shell is filled ; cover it with crumbs and slices of butter, and 
pour the liquor over, then brown in an oven and serve. Season- 
ing may be added, if preferred ; but most epicures like the natu- 
ral taste of the oyster. 

BEEF. 
To make Tough Meat Tender. 

Soak it in vinegar and water, if a very large piece, for about 
twelve hours. 

For twenty pounds of beef, use six quarts of water to one pint 
and a half of vinegar, and soak it for six or seven hours. 

For soups and gravies, use Preston and Merrill's cooking ex- 
tracts of celery, clove, cinnamon, or nutmeg, as suits fancy. 

Sirloin of Beef, 

Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. Make up 
a good fire; spit or hang the joint evenly, at about eighteen 
inches from it ; about twenty minutes before it is done, stir the 
S 



26 



CUISINE. 



fire and make it clear ; sprinkle a little salt, and dredge a little 
flour over the meat, turn it again till it Is brown and frothed. 
Take it fl-om the spit, put it on a hot dish, and pour over it some 
good made gravy, or mix the gravy left at the bottom of the 
dripping-pan with a little hot water and pour it over it. Garnish 
with fine scrapings of horseradish in little heaps, and use Hal- 
ford table sauce. 

Boast Bibs of Beef. 

Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. The chine-bone 
and the upper part of three rib bones should be taken ofi!*, and 
the fiap-ends fastened under with very small skewers. The 
Joint is roasted and served as the sirloin. 

Bibs of Beef Boiled. 

Time, twenty minutes to the pound, or fifteen minutes and 
half an hour over. Order the butcher to take out the bones of 
the joint ; roll it into a round, and fksten it with skewers and a 
broad piece of tape in the shape of a round. Place it at the dis- 
tance of eighteen inches before a large fire tUl it is partly 
dressed ; then move it gradually forward towards the fire. Put 
some clarified dripping in the pan ; baste it the moment the 
dripping melts, and do the same every quarter of an hour. Just 
before it Is done, — i. 6., about twenty minutes before you re- 
move it from the spit, dredge it with fiour, and baste it with a 
little butter. Remove the tape and skewer, and fksten it with a 
silver skewer instead. Serve with good gravy over it. Halford 
sauce. 

A Beef Stew. 

Time, two hours and twenty minutes. Two or three pounds 
of the rump of beef; one quart of broth ; pepper and salt ; the 
peel of one large lemon, and the juice ; two tablespoonflils of 
Halford sauce; one spoonfUl of fiour; a little catsup; one glass 
of white wine. 

Cut away all the skin and fat Arom two or three pounds of the 
rump of beef, and divide it into pieces about two or three 
inches square ; put it into a stewpan, and pour on it a quart of 
broth; then let it boil, and sprinkle in pepper and salt to 
taste. 

A la mode Beef. 

Time, five hours and a half. Six or seven pounds of buttock 
of beef; two ounces of beef dripping ; two large onions ; six 
black peppers ; sixteen allspices ; one gallon of water. 



CUISINE. 



27 



Pat the beef dripping and onions into a large deep stewpan 
over tlie fire. As soon as it is hot, cut the meat into pieces of 
aboat three ounces each, dredge these pieces -well with floor, 
put them into the stewpan, and stir them continually with a 
wooden spoon. When the beef has been in ten minutes, dredge 
in some more flour till it is well thickened ; then add gradually to 
it, stirring it all the time) a gallon of boiling water; add the 
allspice and peppers. Place the stewpan at the side of the flre, 
and let it simmer very slowly till done. 

Bagout of Btef, 

Time, three hours altogether. Two pounds and a half of beef; 
three onions ; a little mixed spice ; half a pint of water ; three 
tablespoonfhls of gravy. 

Take about two pounds and a half of the leg of mutton part 
of beef, and fry it until quite brown, put it into a stewpan with 
three onions, and pepper it well with mixed spice ; boil half a 
pint of water In the pan in which the meat has been fried, add 
to it three tablespoonfhls of gravy, boil it up and pour it over 
the meat in the stewpan. Let it stew gently, and serve It .up 
with capers, etc., warmed in the gravy just before it is poured 
over the meat. 

Brtised Beef. 

Time, flve hours. Teii or eleven pounds of the flank; two 
pounds of salt; half a pound of moist sugar; a quarter of an 
ounce of saltpetre. 

Tsike about ten or eleven pounds of the thin flank, and rub 
well into every part two pounds of salt, and half a iK>und of 
moist sugar mixed with the saltpetre dissolved, repeat the rub- 
bing with the pickle every day for a week ; and then roll it 
round and bind it with a wide piece of tape. Have ready a stew- 
pan of scalding water, put in the beef, and when it simmers 
allow five hours for ten pounds of meat* When sufficiently done, 
drain off the water in which it was boiled, and pour cold spring 
water over it for six or eight minutes, drain it on a sieve re- 
versed, and then place it on a board with a weight on it to 
press the meat well. Then remove the tapes, trim it neatly, 
and serve It when required. 

SpUxd Bound of Beef. 
Time, to bake, flve hours. About twenty pounds of beef; 
twelve ounces of common salt; three ounces of sugar; two 



28 



CUISINE, 



ounces of saltpetre ; two ounces of black peppers ; two ounces 
of allspice ; a Utttle nntmeg, one blade of mace, six cloves. 

Take aboat twenty pounds of round of beef, rub it well with 
coai^e, brown sugar, and set it in a pan for forty-eight hoars. 
Then pound the saltpetre, black peppers, doves, mace and all- 
spice to a powder, and n^ix them with twelve ounces of com- 
mon salt; rub these ingredients oven every part of the beef, 
repeating it dfdly for three weeks. When ready to be dressed, 
wash it in cold water, and place It in a deep-covered pan, the 
size of the beef, add a quarter of a pint of water. Cover the 
top with beef suet, chopped very fine. Put a common crust 
over it, place the cover over the whole, and set it in the 
oven. When done, let it cool, take off the suet and crust, and 
place it on a dish. This joint must be eaten cold, and will 
keep good for some time. 

To Broil Be^ Steaks. 
Beef steaks should be cut up fh)m a rump that has hung a few 
days, and shguld be about three-quarters of an inch thick, and 
trimmed to a neat size for dishing. The fire should be made per- 
fectly bright and clear, and the gridiron be heated, but not so 
hot as to scorch the meat ; and immediately before the steaks 
are placed upon it, the bars should be rubbed with Aresh mutton 
suet. Turn the meat to prevent its being scorched, but be care- 
ful not to let the fork or tongs penetrate the meat lest the gravy 
should escape, nor yet must it be pressed or the fibre will be 
broken, and it will be tough ; about ten minutes is sufficient for 
each steak, which should be served on a hot dish the moment it 
is taken from the gridiron. Do not season the steak before it 
is broiled, but a little salt may be sprinkled over it just as it is 
taken up. If properly broiled, no gravy need be added ; but a 
tablespoonftil of Halford table sauce poured over, or a slice of 
butter under the steak. 

To Broil Fillet of Beef Steaks. 
The steaks cut from the fillet, or inside of the sirloin are con- 
sidered the most tender and delicate ; and French cooks always 
prefer them to rump steaks. They must be dipped in clarified 
butter before they are broiled, and are usually served with minced 
parsley seasoned with Cayenne strewed over them, and a little 
butter sliced over the dish before the steak is put on it. Be 
careful not to press the steak. 



CUISINE, 



To Fry Beef Steaks. 
Cat rump steaks of the same size as for broiling; dredge them 
with fionr. Have the frying-pan perfectly clean and hot, then 
put in batter or. clarified Aresh beef saet, which makes excellent 
fat for frying ; pat in the steaks, and tarn them frequently to 
preserve the gravy. In fifteen minutes, if the fire be in proper 
condition, the steaks will be cooked ; dredge them with a little 
salt and pepper before you take them from the pan ; transfer them 
to a hot dish, pour the f^t from the pan, and put in two ounces 
of butter rolled in flour, and a cup of gravy or stock, and when 
it has^ simmered for a minute, pour it over the steaks. Some- 
times sliced onions are Med to serve over the steaks, or tried 
potatoes around them. 

To Stew Beefsteak. 
Take two pounds of tender rump steaks about an inch thick ; 
try them lightly till brown ; then transfer them to the stewpan, 
which must first be lined with thin slices of ham. Strew over 
the steaks a drachm of Cayenne, a stick of celery chopped in 
pieces, the red part of a carrot sliced, two small onions, with 
two cloves stuck in each, a sprig of parsley and one of thyme ; 
pour over them as much water as will cover the meat, close the 
stewpan and let the whole simmer gently for two hours ; then 
careftilly take the steaks from the pan, strain the gravy, thicken 
it with two ounces of butter rolled- in flour, and a glass of 
claret, or tablespoonfhl of Worcester sauce. Heat these together 
and pour over the steaks, and serve them with sliced carrots, or 
mashed potatoes round the dish. 

BEEF TOISTGTJES. 
To Fickle or Salt Tongues, 

The simplest mode of preparing a b^ef tongue is to cut off the 
root, leaving a little of the fat ; cover it with salt and let it lie 
on an earthenware dish for twenty-four hours ; then pour off all 
the slimy matter that has drained trom it, and rub the tongue 
well with a mixture of half a pound of coarse salt, half a pound 
sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre ; turn and rub it every day, and 
after a week, renew the mixture, and continue to rub it for another 
week, when it will be ready to eat, or, if not required, to be dried 
by hanging up, or smoked over a wood fire. 

If you choose to pickle your tongue, make the pickle of one 
pound each of salt and moist sugar, and three ounces each of 



30 



CUISINE, 



saltpetre and sal pranella ; dissolve in a gallon of water in a 
stone or earthenware jar, with cover. Put the tongne into this 
brine, and take care it is perfectly covered ; in a fortnight, it must 
be taken oat, rubbed dry, and then hung up to keep, or used oat 
of the pickle, when it is always the best. A dried or smoked 
tongue should be soaked twelve hours in cold water ; but ftom. 
the pickle, three or four hours is sufficient. 

To Boil a Tongue. 

Trim and wash the tongue, put it into cold water at such a 
distance from the :fire that it may be an hour in heating ; then 
let it simmer teom three to four hours, according to size, take it 
out of the hot water and plunge it into cold water, when the skin 
can be easily drawn off. If wanted to be served hot. It shoald 
be glazed over with a jelly of cow's heel or cairs foot, laid on 
with a paste-brush, two or three times, till it looks transparent, 
and then send in with mashed turuips and sliced carrots. 

If a tongue be boiled to send to the table cold, it is now usually 
rolled up as soon as boiled and skinned ; the thick put in the mid- 
dle after it has been nicely trimmed. It must then be bound with 
tape, put into a tin mould, with a weight upon it for twenty-four 
hours ; when turned out, remove the tape and put a silver skewer 
through, and cut it like a fillet of veal. 

To Boast a Tongue, 

Trim a large tongue, cutting away the root entirely, and put 
it in cold water over the fire till it boils ; then take it out and 
skin it, cover it with thin slices of bacon, and stick in it a dozen 
cloves ; then roast it before the fire for three hours, basting It 
well. Send It to table hot, with rich gravy sauce round it. 

To Bake Tongue, 

Parboil the tongue and skin It as for roasting; trim it neatly, 
mince two boiled onions, a bunch of parsley ; mix with these 
three tablespoonfhls of fine .crumbs seasoned with a drachm of 
Cayenne, and a blade of mace and six cloves pounded ; spread 
the seasoned crumbs over the tongue, and cover them wilh 
bacon cut as thin as possible, lloll up the tongue with the thick 
part In the middle, put It Into a small baking-pan, cover It with 
broth or stock, put It into the oven and let It bake slowly from 
three to four hours. When taken out, put It Into the mould and 
press It tin cold. It makes a pretty dish for breakfast or lunch. 

If the thin part of a tongue be left uneaten, It should be pre- 
served to grate for seasoning omelettes and forcemeats. 



CUISINE. 



31 



VEAIi. 
To Boast a Fillet of Veal, 

To ensure the leg of veal being untainted, remove the skewer, 
where the udder lies, every day, wipe it dry, and throw in a little 
salt, removing the kernel Arom the fat. Cut off the knuckle 
sufficiently above the joint to make a handsome fillet ; take out 
the bone, and fill the cavity with veal forcemeat, adding another 
layer round the fat; draw the flap round,' and bind it "firmly with 
tape. Put it down at some distance i^om the fire at first, dredge 
It well with fiour, and baste freely with butter. When half 
done, cover the fat with paper, draw the veal nearer to the fire, 
and continue to baste it. If Arom twelve to fifteen pounds in 
weight, it will require from four to five hours to roast it well, 
and if not thoroughly cooked, veal is uneatable. Bemove the 
tape and insert a skewer. When you dish up the fillet, pour 
over it plain melted butter, and garnish with sliced lemon. It 
is usual to send in a pig's cheek, small pieces of ham, or boiled 
tongue, with roast veal. 

To Boast a Loin of Veal, 

The loin is generally considered the prime joint of veal. It is 
not usual to stuff this joint, but In some families it is liked. If 
required, the forcemeat made the same as for the fillet must be 
placed under the skin, over the ends of the bones. The flap 
must be skewered down, and a buttered paper put round the 
joint to prevent the fat round the kidney escaping, and the meat 
dredged with flour. Baste the meat continually, and a short 
time before you take it up, take away the paper, that the surface 
may brown. It will take, according to its weight, rather less 
time to roast than the flllet. It may be sent up either with 
melted butter or brown gravy, always accompanied by sliced 
lemon. 

To Boast a Breast of Veal* 

Skewer down the caul till the veal Is almost roasted, which 
will be in two hours, if even a large breast. Baste it well, and 
be carefhl to preserve the sweetbread from scorching. Before 
you take up the veal, remove the caul, dredge and baste till it is 
well browned. Serve with melted butter and lemon. 

Sometimes the sweetbread is taken out, and stewed sepa- 
rately, but it should always be served with the breast. 

To Boast a Neck of Veal, 

The best end of the neck of veal is commonly selected for 



32 



CUISINE. 



roasting; it is tender and delicate, and is best roasted withont 
the staffing in it, but with the forcemeat made into small cakes, 
Med in butter, and served round it. From an hour and a half 
to an hour and three quarters is long enough to roast this joint, 
which is sent up with melted butter. 

To Boast a Shoulder of Veal. 

The shoulder is not so much valued as any other joint of veal, 
and may always be bought at a lower price. It is, however, 
very useftil either to stew or to roast for a family. The knuckle 
should be cut off, a staffing of forcemeat spread on the under 
side, and the road end of the veal turned and skewered over it, 
or the bladebone maybe quite drawn out and the forcemeat 
substituted in its place. It must be roasted and served up like 
the other joints of veal, and especially should be well basted, 
or the outside will bo hard. 

Veal Chops, 

The chops should be nearly an inch thick, and should be cut 
from the loin, and beaten, to break the fibre of the meat. Each 
chop should be enveloped in a sheet of writing-paper very well 
buttered, and sprinkled with salt, pepper, and minced parsley. 
Put them on the gridiron at a considerable height above the fire, 
so that they may broil slowly, and turn them frequently. They 
will require twenty minutes to cook them well, and must be 
served with sliced lemon round. 

TiAMB. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. 
Time, one hour and three-quarters for six pounds. Procure a 
fine fresh leg of lamb, and place it some distance from the fire, 
basting it frequently ; a short time before it is done, move it 
nearer to the fire, dredge it with fiour and a little salt,, and baste 
it with dissolved butter, to give it a nice frothy appearance. 
Then empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a cupftil 
of hot water, stir it well round, and pour the gravy over the meat, 
through a fine sieve. Serve with mint sauce and a salad. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb, 
Time, one hour and a quarter after the water simmers. Select 
a fine fresh leg of lamb, weighing about five pounds ; soak it in 
warm water for rather more than two hours, then wrap it in a 
cloth and boil it slowly for an hour and a quarter. When done, 
dish it up and garnish with a border of carrots, turnips, or cauli- 



GHiLDS, CROSBY & LANE, 



DBALBRS IM 



CAPPETIK 





f 



WINDOW SHADES, 










— AHD — 



PAPER HANaiNaS. 



ti^ TUTHdH^MT BTWIM9T 



p 



BOSTOlSr. 



WOODWABD & BROWN. 



MANUFACTUREBS OF 



Piano Fortes, 

Wej-e awarded the first i}remium over nine nompetitors 

of the leading Piano Manufacturers of Boston, 

at the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanics' 

Association for the best Pianos. 

WOODWARD & BROWN, 

No. 514 Washington Street, 
BOSTON. 

Second- Hand PIsnot taken in exchange for New. Pianos to Let. 



CUISINE. 



33 



flower around it. Wind a cat paper round the shank bone, and 
serve it with i^ain parsley and batter sauce poared over it. 

LamVs Fry. 
Time, altogether, twenty minutes. One pound of lamb's fty ; 
one egg ; one ounce of bread-crumbs ; a sprig of parsley ; pepper 
and salt. 

Take a pound of lamb's fly, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour ; then drain it dry. Brush it over with the yolk of a beaten 
egg, and then cover it with bread-crumbs, seasoned with minced 
parsley, pepper and salt. Fry it till it is a nice color — i. e. for 
about five minutes. 

MUTTOK". 
To Boast a Haunch of Mutton. 

To insure the meat being perfectly tender and delicate, it is 
desirable to keep this joint as long as possible, and if you have 
a good larder, it may be preserved with care for four or five 
weeks, in cool weather. Let it be washed firequently with warm 
milk-and-water, or vinegar, and wiped carefully, and two days 
before it is dressed it is sometimes soaked in port wine or claret, 
and rubbed over with pepper and ginger to give it the venison 
flavor. Saw a few inches from the knuckle, and remove the skin 
flrom the loin, wash and dry it well before cooking, lest the out- 
side should have acquired any ill taste-; put a paste of coarse 
meal on strong cartridge paper, and envelop the haunch entirely 
In it. Put it down a considerable distance froTn. the fire for two 
hours ; then gradually bring it nearer. When it has been down 
three hours, remove the paper and pftste, and baste it continu- 
ally for three-quarters of an hour longer, or, if required to be 
well done, a quarter of an hour more. Put flringed writing-paper 
round the shank, and serve it with rich-drawn gravy, No. 3, and 
currant jelly, or currant jelly sauce. 

To Boast a Saddle cf Mutton* , 

This excellent and handsome joint, the two loins, nsoally 
weighs from ten to twelve pounds. It is fit for cooking after it 
has hung a few days, if prime mutton, as it is the most tender 
part. It is the duty of the batcher to raise the skin from it, 
which is then skewered ov«r it again to preserve the juices when 
roasting. If this has been neglected, cover the fat with writing- 
paper ; let it roast two hours, or a quarter longer if large ; then 
remove the skin or paper, that it may brown lightly. Dredge 
the meat with flour, sprinkle it with salt, and baste it well, send- 

3 




L 



CUISINE, 

-9 

Ing it up finely firothed. From two hours and a quarter to two 
hours and a half is the full time to roast it. It may be served 
with currant-jelly or port-wine sauce. Stewed lentils are often 
placed round it. 

To Boast a Leg of Mutton. 
A leg of mutton should never be hung less than five days ; if 
the weather be cold, it should be kept ten days. It may be lightly 
dusted with flour to exclude the air, but this must be taken off 
before it is cooked, when it must be wiped dry before it is put 
down. It should be put down at some distance from the fire at 
first, and gradually drawn nearer, and kept continually basted, 
or it will be spoiled ; sprinkle it with salt and flour before it is 
taken up. Pour a very little gravy over it when dished, for if 
properly roasted, the gravy will flow from it as soon as it is 
cut. If of eight pounds* weight, it will require three hours to 
roast it well. 

To Boast a Shoulder of MuUon. 
There is no Joint so useftil and so common in a family as the 
shoulder of mutton, which is always attainable at a moderate 
price, does not require to hang long, and is easy of digestion. 
An hour and a half is long enough to roast a small shoulder of 
seven pounds, — longer, in proportion to the size. A very nice 
dish may be made of a roa3t shoulder of mutton by serving it in 
onion sauce. 

To Boast a Loin of Mutton, 

The loin is the most tender, delicate joint of the sheep. It is 
however, too fat for roasting, unless it be trimmed into the 
form called by the butchers the strait loin ; the flap, the skin, 
and the greatest part of the fat being pared away, leaving the 
joint narrow and neat in form. It should then be jointed, 
that it may be carved conveniently, if in a family where it is 
usual to separate the joints rather than slice the meat; but 
the most approved way is to cut slices the lengthway, as in the 
saddle. The fat should be covered with paper till the mutton is 
nearly roasted ; if of a moderate size, an hour and a half will 
be long enough to cook it. It may be sent in with currant 
jeUy. 

The proper relish. 

For Beef, Poultry, Mutton and Game, the highly recommended 
relish is the Halford Leicestershire Table Sauce. 



CUISINE. 36 



To BroU Mutton Chops. 

Mutton is par eaccellence, the meat for chops and cutlets, and 
these may be cooked variously, so as to produce many novel- 
ties for entrees, or for the lunch table. The mutton chop simple 
is convenient, for the preparation is readily accomplished, re- 
quiring only nicety and attention. The chops may be cut from 
the fillet of the leg, Arom the loin, or the best end of the neck : 
of these, loin chops are most tender and Juicy ; they should 
not be less than half an inch thick, pared into a neat form, and 
if from the neck the bones should be shortened, brushed lightly 
over with clarified batter to preserve the Juice, and broiled over 
a clear fire, turning them four times ; when half done, season 
them with a mixture of salt and pepper, in tlie proportion of 
three teaspoojilUls of salt, and one of pepper to two pounds 
of chops. Serve them one at a time on a hot dish with a thin 
slice of butter on each chop, not pressed down, and half a table- 
spoonftii of mushroom ketchup or vinegar; sliced lemon 
round the chops. 

To Dry Mutton Chops, 

Cut and trim the chops as for broiling ; saw off the bone at 
the thick end, if from the neck; rub each chop lightly over 
with eschalot, then dip each chop into beaten egg in which 
two teaspoonftals of salt have been mixed; cover with fine 
bread-crumbs, and put them in a frying-pan with a good slice 
of butter; turn them lightly two or three times, and before 
done, sprinkle them with salt and pepper; fry, not less than 
ten minutes, or more than fifteen minutes ; take up and drain 
the chops before the fire. Add to the butter in the Arying-pan, 
two tablespoonflils of broth or stock, one tablespoonfU^ of 
lemon-Juice, and one of mushroom ketchup ; shake the pan till 
well mixed, then dish the chops, pour the gravy over them, 
and garnish with pickled gherkins. 

Calf 8 Mead Boiled. 

Time, to soak, one hour and a half; to simmer, one hour and 
a half. Half a calfs head; half a pint of melted butter, with' 
parsley ; one lemon ; a pinch of pepper and salt. 

Soak the calfs head in cold water for an hour and a half, 
then for ten minutes in hot water before it is dressed. 

Put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water (enough for 
the head to swim), and let it boil gently. When the'scum rises, 
skim it very careftilly. After the head boils, let it simmer gently 



36 CUISINE. 



an hour and a half. Serve it with melted butter and parsley 
over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and tiny heaps of 
fried parsley. Ham should be served with a calfs head, or 
slices of bacon. 

POKE. 

To Boast the Pig. 

Time, one hour and a half or two hours. Half a pint of melted 
butter ; two ounces of fresh butter ; three-quarters of a pint of 
sage and onion forcemeat. 

When the pig is well cleaned, make a forcemeat according to 
previous directions, or a veal stuflang forcemeat if preferred. 
Sew it up with a strong thread ; truss it as a hare is trussed, 
with its fore-legs skewered back and its hind legs forward. 
Dry it well and rub it with a little flbur. Set it before a clear 
brisk fire, arrange under it a dripping-pan and basin to catch 
the gravy. Baste it with a little pure olive oil, or with its own 
gravy, rubbing it occasionally (when you do not use oil) with ^ 
butter. When it is done, cut off the head, split it in halves, 
divide pig with a very sharp knife down the centre^ lay the 
backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of 
head at each end of the dish. Pour a little of the gravy of the 
pig, mixed with thin melted butter and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice, over it. 

Send some of the same gravy and melted butter (seasoned 
with a little Cayenne) to table in a sauce tureen. 

Sauces to be eaten with it, — bread sauce, or tomato sauce, or 
apple sauce, as preferred. 

To roast a leg of pork the old-fashioned way with stuffing. 

Time, twenty minutes for each pound. Sage and onion stuff- 
ing; a piece of butter. 

Select a fine, small leg of pork, keep the skin on, and score it 
in regular stripes of a quarter of an inch wide with the ppint of 
a sharp knife ; cut a slit in the knuckle, raise the skin, put under 
it some nice sage and onion stuffing, and fasten it in with a small 
skewer ; put it at some distance from the fire, and baste it fre- 
quently. Just before it is done, moisten the skin all over with a 
little butter, dredge it with flour, and place it near the fire to 
brown and crisp. When done, put it on a hot dish, pour a little 
gravy made in tl^e dripping-pan round it, and serve with apple 
sauce. 



CUISINE. 



37 



To Boast a Sparerib of Pork, 
Time, one hour and three-quarters for six pounds. Score the 
skin, put the joint down to a bright Are to roast, rub a little flour 
over it. If the rind is kept on, roast It without a buttered paper 
over it ; but if the skin and fat are removed, cover it with a but- 
tered paper. Keep it frequently basted. About ten minutes 
before taking it up, strew over it some powdered sage ; froth it 
with a little butter, and serve with grayy strained over it, and 

apple sauce. 

To Boil a Sam. 

Time, four or five hours. A blade of mace ; a few cloves ; a 
sprig of thyme. 

Well soak the ham in a large quantity of water for twenty-four 
hours, then trim and scrape it very clean, put it into a large stew- 
pan with more than sufficient water to cover it ; put in a blade 
of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme. Boil it for fouror five 
hours, according to its weight ; and when done, let it become cold 
in the liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove the rind care- 
fhlly without injuring the fkt, press a cloth over it to absorb as 
much of the grease as possible, and shake some bread-raspings 
over the fat, or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve it cold, 
garnished with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Ornament the 
knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. 

To Bake a Ham. 

Time, four hours. Take a medium-sized ham, and place it to 
soak for ten or twelve hours. Then cut away the rusty part from 
underneath, wipe it dry, and cover it rather thickly over with a 
paste of flour and water. Put it into an earthen dish, and set it 
into a moderately-heated oven for four hours. When done, take 
off the crust careftilly and peel off the skin, put a frill of cut 
paper round the knuckle, and raspings of bread over the fat of 
the ham, or serve it glazed, and garnished with cut vegetables. 

Some persons infinitely prefer a baked ham to a boiled one, but 
we think it better boiled or steamed. 

POULTBY. 

Boast Turkey. 

In season from December to February. Time, according to 

size, from one hour and fifteen minutes to two hours, or two 

hours and a half. Half a pint of forcemeat for veal, or sausage 

meat; a little butter. 



38 



CUISINE. 



To truss the bird : pick the bird caxeAilly, and singe off the 
down with a piece of lighted white paper; break the leg bones 
close to the feet ; hang it on a hook and draw out the strings 
froTo. the thigh ; cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the 
crop skin long enoagh to turn over the back; remove the crop, 
and with the middle finger loosen the liver and gut at the throat 
end. Cut off the vent, remove the gut, take a crooked wire and 
pull out the gizzard, and the liver will easily follow. Be very 
careM not to break the gall bladder ; if you do it will spoil the 
flavor of the bird entirely, by giving it a bitter taste, which no 
after efforts of washing, etc., can remove. Do not break the gut 
joining the gizzard either, lest the inside should become gritty. 
Wipe the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth, then cut the 
breast bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the 
legs close to the crop. Put a cloth on the breast, and beat the 
breast- bone down with a rolling-pin till it lies flat. Scald the 
feet, peel off the outer skin, and cut away the claws ; leave the 
legs on. 

Fill the inside with veal stuffing or sausage meat, and either 
sew the skin of the neck over the back with a trussing needle, or 
fasten it with a very small skewer. Then Tun a long skewer into 
the pinion and thigh through the body, passing it through the 
opposite pinion and thigh. On the other side, put a skewer in 
the small part of the leg, close to the outside of the sidesman and 
push it through. Clean the liver and gizzard and tuck them be- 
tween the pinions, and turn the point of the pinions on the back. 
Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it securely 
at the back to keep the bird neat and firmly trussed. Cover the 
breast with a sheet of nicely buttered white paper. 

Place the bird on a spit or roasting Jack, and set it at some 
distance fi*om the fire, which should be a very good and bright 
one. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put a quarter of a pound 
of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste it frequently, to prevent 
it drying too much. Just before it is finished dressing, remove 
the paper, dredge it lightly with fiour, and baste it with the but- 
ter, so as to brown and froth it. Serve it with good brown 
gravy poured over it, and garnish with small fried sausages or 
forcemeat ball. Halford sauce for poultry. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Hen turkeys are best for boiling ; they should hang quite four 
days before they are dressed. 



. 



CUISINE, 



39 



Time, large turkey, one hour and three-quarters ; smaller, one 
hour and a half. To truss a boiled turkey : Cut the first joint 
of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the 
skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the bird. 

Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint 
of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and 
wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then 
tnm the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack- 
thread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. 
Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean 
cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring It 
gradually to a boil, and careAilly remove the scum as it rises, or 
it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it simmer very 
gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a large 
size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery 
sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter ; put a small quan- 
tity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen sepa- 
rately. 

To Stew Giblets. 

Time, one hour and a half. One set of giblets ; a bunch of 
parsley and thyme; a few sage leaves; pepper and salt; one 
onion; a quart of gravy ; a wineglass of white wine. 

Thoroughly clean and wash the giblets, cut them into pieces, 
and stew them for an hour and a half in a quart of gravy, adding 
a bunch of Uiyme and parsley, an onion, a few sage leaves, and a 
seasoning of pepper and salt. When done, put them in water, 
and trim them ready for serving. Strain the gravy through a 
fine hair sieve, add a glass of white wine, and a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Boil the giblets up in the 
gravy, and serve them quickly. 

To Boast a Duck, 
Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. A couple of 
ducks ; sage and onion stuffing. Ducks should always hang for 
one day, and even longer if the weather be sufficiently cold to 
allow it. Stuff one with sage and onion stuffing, season the inside 
of the other with pepper and salt. Put them to roast at a clear 
bright fire, and keep constantly basted until done. A short time 
before serving, dredge over them a little fiour and then baste 
them with butter, to make them firoth and brown. Serve them 
very hot, and pour round (not over them) a little good brown 
gravy. Serve a little of the same separately in a tureen. 



40 



CUISINE. 



Green peas should always be sent up with roast ducks, if in 

season. 

To JRoast a Fowl or Chicken, 

Time, one hour for a large one ; three-quarters of an hour for 
a small one ; twenty-flve minutes for a chicken. One large fowl 
or two small ones ; some brown gravy ; butter and flour. 

When the fowls are trussed for roasting, singe them careftilly, 
and wipe them clean ; put a piece of buttered paper over the 
breasts, and roast them at a clear flre, keeping them frequently 
basted. Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge 
them with flour, and baste them with butter warmed in the bast- 
ing-ladle until they are nicely browned and have a frothy appear- 
ance. Then place them on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy 
over them, and serve the remainder in a tureen with another of 

bread sauce. 

To Boil Fowls or Chickens, 

Time, one hour for a large fowl ; three-quarters of an hour for 
a medium size ; half an hour for a chicken. After the fowls or 
chickens are trussed for boiling, fold them in a nice white floured 
cloth and put them into a stewpan ; cover them well with hot 
water, bring it gradually to a boil, and skim it very careAilly as 
the scum rises ; then let them simmer as slowly aspossible, which 
will improve their appearance more than fast boiling, causing 
them to be whiter and plumper. When done, put them on a hot 
dish, remove the skewers, and pour over them a little parsley 
and butter, oyster, lemon, celery, or white sauce, serving the 
sauce also separately in a tureen. Boiled tongue, ham,. or bacon 
is usually served to eat with them. 

Broiled Partridges, 

TiMK, fifteen to twenty minutes. Partridges; gravy; butter; 
pepper; salt; Cayenne. 

Thoroughly pick and draw the partridges, divide each through 
the back and breasts, and wipe the Insides. Season them highly 
with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne, and place them over 
a clear bright flre to broil. When done, rub a piece of ftesh 
butter over them, and serve them up hot with brown gravy. 

To Boast a PlieasanU 

Time, from half an hour to one hour, according to size. A 
pheasant ; butter ; flour ; brown gravy, and salt. 

After the pheasant is trussed, split it, and roast it before a 



S. H. KIMBALL, 

.A.11 b^lndM of 

Children's Carriages, 



Banopy Top Garriageg, Doll Garriages, 

WAGONS, TRaCKS, ETC. 



We have the largest and best ttock of Carriages kept in 
Boston. 

No Carriages sold but those made on the premises; 
every Carriage warranted as represented. 

Dealers are invited to call and examine style and finish, 
also those wishing to purchase for their own use. 

25 TTOSJ-IOnsr STE/EBT, 
BOSTOBT. 



At Wholesale & Betail ! 



A WKLL ASSORTED STOCK OF 

WINDOW SHADES, 

At prices from 50 etc, to $3.00 • 

OXJRT^IISr FIXTURES, 

From .10 to #1.15. 

Fly Screens for Doors and Windows, 

From 60 cts« to $10.00 eacli. 

MOSQUITO CAITOFIES 

OF ODB OWN DESMS AND HANUFiCTUBE. 

From $3.00 to $15.00 eacli* 

All the above warranted all that we represent them to be, and all will do 
well to call and examine; it is no trouble to exhibit our stock. 

We are Sole Agents fob the 

Patent " Cemented " Rubber Mouldings 



Warranted to exclude Wind, Sain, Snow and l>u8tf and thus save their 

cost in the quantity of Fuel consumed. 

m. VKT. PRATT A GO. 

57 Bromfield St., third door from Tremont, 



CUISINE. 41 



clear qaick fire ; baste it frequently with butter, sprinkle over it 

a little salt, and dredge it lightly with flour, to froth It nicely. 

When done (which will be in about half an hour, or longer if a 

large bird), serve it up with a little good brown gravy poured 

round the pheasant, and the remainder in a tureen, with another 

of bread sauce. . 

Woodcocks and Snipes, 

Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Some woodcocks or 
snipes; butter; bread toasted ; two slices of bacon. 

After the birds are picked and trussed, put a thin layer of bacon 
over them, and tie it on, run a bird-spit though them, and tie it 
on to a common one. Toast and butter a slice of bread, and put 
it under them for the trail to drop on. Baste them continually 
with butter, and roast them, if large, for twenty-five minutes ; if 
small, five minutes less. Froth them up, take up the toast, cut it in 
quarters, put in the dish, and pour some gravy and butter over 
it. Take up the woodcocks and put them on it, with the bills 
outwards. Serve with plain butter sauce in a tureen. 

Snipes are dressed the same as woodcocks, only roast the 
' large ones twenty minutes, small ones a quarter of an hour. 

To Boast Wild Ducks. 

Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Wild ducks ; butter ; 
flour ; Cayenne pepper ; one lemon ; one glass of port wine. 

When the duclss are trussed, spit them, and put them down to 
roast before a brisk flre, keeping the spit in rapid motion. Baste 
them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and 
send them up nicely Arothed and browned, with a good gravy in 
the dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a few inci- 
sions made across it with a knife, and a piece of Aresh butter put 
on it ; then cut a lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the 
other a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper j put the lemon 
together and squeeze the Juice over the ducks, then add a glass 
of warmed port wine, and your ducks will be ready to carve. 

To Boast a QuaU, 
" Time, about twenty minutes. Quails; a little gravy; vine 
leaves and bacon. 

Pick, draw, and truss the birds. Cover the breasts with a 
slice of fat bacon and vine leaves, secure with a skewer, which 
can be tied to the spit. Roast them for twelve or fifteen minutes 
before a very brisk flre ; serve them up hot, with a little good 
gravy poured round them« 



1 



42 



CUISINE, 



To Boil Babbits, 

This is the most simple and common way to dress rabbits. 
They must not hang more than three or four days. Skin and 
wash them well. Soak them in warm water, truss them, with 
the heads skewered to their sides, and put them in boiling water. 
Let them simmer gently from half to three-quarters of an hour. 
Then serve with white onion saucje poured over them; or if 
onions are not approved, a good white sauce round them. 

When two rabbits are served together, the head of one is laid 
in a contrary direction to that of the other. 

To Boast a Babbit. 

Choose a good-sized, but young rabbit, and after It is skinned 
and washed, wash it again several times in a mixture of a glass 
of port wine, and the same of vinegar, seasoned with half a tea- 
spoonful of black pepper and four cloves, pounded ; fill it with 
forcemeat, like a hare, and wash it without wiping it before you 
spit it. Boast for three-quarters of an hour, or a little longer, 
if a very large rabbit. Baste it plentifully, and serve with gravy 
and currant JeUy, like a hare. 

To Fry BabbiU 

Skin and wash a young rabbit ; cut it up into joints, dip the 
pieces into ^Qg, and then into fine bread crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Fry in butter for fifteen minutes, when the rab- 
bit will be lightly browned. Take out the pieces and keep hot, 
and make a gravy in the pan by adding a little more butter, rolled 
in flour, a teaspoo^fUl of lemon juice and a tablespoonftd of mush- 
room ketchup. When hot, pour it round the rabbit, and serve 
with sliced lemon. 

To Clarify Beef Dripping, ♦ 

Put the dripping into a basin, pour over it some boiling water, 

and stir it round with a silver spoon ; set it to cool, and then 

remove the dripping from the sediment, and put it into basins or 

jars for use in a cool place. Clarified dripping may be used for 

frying and basting everything except game or poultry, as well as 

for pies, etc. 

To make a Short Crust with Dripping. 

One pound of fiour, three-quarters of a pound of clarified beef 
dripping; one wineglass of very cold water; a pinch of salt. 

Take care that the water yon use is cold, especially in sum- 
mer. Put the flour, well dried, into a large basin (which should 
be kept for the purpose), with a pinch of salt; break up the 



CUISINE, 



43 



clarified beef dripping into pieces, and mix them well with the 
floar, rubbing them together till they are a fine powder. Then 
make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in water 
enough to make a smooth and flexible paste. Sprinkle the 
pasteboard with flour, and your hands also ; take out the lump 
of paste, roll it out ; fold it together again, and roll it out — U 6., 
roll it three times ; the last time it should be of the thickness 
required for your crustj that is, about a quarter of an inch, or 
even thinner. It is then ready for use. 

Common Puff Paste, 

One pound of sifted flour; a quarter of a pound of lard; half 
a teaspoonfdl of salt ; half a pound of butter. 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, or in an earthen 
basin, make a hollow in the centre, work into it a quarter of a 
pound of lard and half a teaspoonftil of salt. When it is mixed 
through the flour, add as much cold water as wiU bind it to- 
gether, then strew a little flour over the pasteboard or table ; 
flour the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to half an inch In 
thickness ; divide half a pound of butter in three parts ; spread 
one evenly over the paste, fold it up, dredge a little flour over 
it and tfaie paste, fold it up, dredge a little flour over it and the 
pasteslab or table ; roll it out again, spread another portion of 
the butter over, and fold and roll again ; so continue until all 
the butter Is used ; roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness for use. 

Pure and healthAil Cooking Extracts are made from fruits, 
flowers, and spices, by Preston & Merrill. 

Plain Beefsteak Pie. 

Time, one hour and a half. Two pounds and a half of beef- 
steak ; a little pepper, salt and Cayenne ; a little water, or gravy 
if you have it ; one tablespoonfUl of Halford's sauce ; the yolk of 
one egg ; half a pound of paste. 

Cut the steak into small pieces with a very little fat, dip each 
piece into flour, place them in a pie-dish, seasoning each layer 
with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper ; flU the dish 
sufficiently with slices of steak to raise the crust in the middle, 
half fill the dish with water or any gravy left from roast beef, 
and a spoonfUl of Halford's sauce ; put a border of paste round 
the wet edge of the pie-dish, moisten it and lay the crust over 
it. Cut the paste even with the edge of the pie-dish all round, 
ornament it with leaves of paste, and brush it over with the 



44 



CUISINE, 



beaten yolk of an egg. Make a hole with a knife in the top, 

and bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken Pie. 

Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. Two small chickens ; 
some forcemeat ; a sweetbread ; a cupfUl of good gravy ; a little 
flour and butter ; four eggs ; some puff paste. 

Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a puff paste, upon that, 
round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat; cut two small 
chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt ; 
put some of the pieces into the dish, then some sweetbread cut 
into pieces and well seasoned, the yolk of four or five hard- 
boiled eggs, cut into four pieces, and strewed over the tops. 
Put in a little water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste, 
glaze it, ornament the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in 
through the hole in the top a cupfVil of good gravy, thickened 

with a little flour and butter. 

Oyster Patties. 

Time, twenty minutes in all. Light puff paste; two dozen 
large oysters ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour ; half a gill 
of good cream ; a little grated lemon peel ; a little Cayenne 
pepper; salt; one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Roll out puff paste less than a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
it into squares with a knife, cover with it eight or ten patty- 
pans, and put upon each a bit of bread the size of a walnut, 
roll out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as 
above, wet the edge of the bottom paste and put on the top, 
pare them round and notch them about a dozen times with the 
back of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk of egg, and bake 
them In a hot oven ' about a quarter of an hour. When done, 
take a fhln slice off the top, and with a small knife or spoon, 
take out the bread and the inside paste, leaving the outside 
quite entire. Parboil two dozen large oysters, strain them from 
their liquor, wash, beard, and cut them Into four, put them into 
a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of 
good cream, a little grated lemon peel, the oyster liquor 
strained and reduced by boiling to one-half, a little Cayenne 
pepper and salt, and a teaspoonftil of lemon juice ; stir It over 
the Are flve minutes, fill the patties, put the cover on the top, 

and serve. 

TO MAKE A SAIiAD. 

Two boiled potatoes strained through a kitchen sieve. 
Softness and smoothness to the sala^ g^ve ; 



Of mordant mustard take a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; 

Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fiiult. 

To add a double quantity of salt. 

Four times the spoon with oU of Lucca crown. 

And twice with vinegar, procured firom town ; 

True taste requires it, and your poet begs, 

The pounded yellow of two well-boUed eggs. 

Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl. 

And scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 

And lastly. In the flavored compound toss, 

A magic spoonftd of anchovy sauce ; 

Oh, great and glorious I oh, herbaceous meat I 

'T would tempt the dying anchoret to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul. 

And dip his fingers In the salad bowl I 

Lobster Salad. 
A lobster; yolks of two eggs; a spoonful of made mustard; 
three tablespoonftals of salad oil ; a taste of vinegar ; a little 
salt : some Aresh lettuces or celery. 

Pick all the meat out of the lobster, thoroughly beat the yolks 
of two new-laid eggs, beat In made mustard to taste, and, con- 
tinuing to beat them, drop In three tablespoonftds of salad oil ; 
add whatever flavoring may be preferred, a taste of vinegar, and 
some salt. Mix In six tablespoonftils of vinegar, and the soft 
part of the lobster. Moisten the remainder of the lobster with 
this, and lay It at the bottom of the bowl; cut up the lettuce, 
take care that It Is well rolled over in the dressing, and^ put It 
over the lobster. Mustard can be left out If It Is not liked. 
The above quantity Is given for the proportions, and can be 
Increased according to the lobster employed. 

Chicken Salad, 
The white meat of a chicken ; the weight In celery ; the yolk 
of one raw egg and one hard-boiled ; a teaspoon Ail of salt ; the 
same of pepper; half a teaspoonfUl of mustard; a tablespoonthl 
of salad oil; one of white wine vinegar; one teaspoonfUl of 
extract of celery. 

Take the white meat of a chicken, boiled, cut It small, or 
mince It fine ; take the same quantity, or more, of white tender 
celery cut small, and mix the celery and chicken together an 
hour or two before It Is wanted, then add the dressing made 



46 



CUISINE, 



thus: Break the yolk of a hard-boiled e^g very fine Yiith a 
silver fork, add to it the yolk of a raw egg, and the pepper and 
salt, with half a tablespoonftil of made mustard, work all smoothly 
together, adding gradually a tablespoonftl of salad oil, and the 
same of white wine vinegar. Mix the chicken with the dress- 
ing, pile it np in the dish, and spread some of the dressing over 
the outside. Garnish with the delicate leaves of the celery, the 
white of the egg cut into rings, green picldes cut in slices, 
pickled beet root in slices and stars, and placed alternately with 
the rings of egg and the leaves. 

Salad Mixture, 

One boiled potato ; one saltspoon of salt ; two of white pow- 
dered sugar; one mustardspoonftil of mustard ; one tablespoon- 
ftil of oil ; one teaspoonfhl of Halford's sauce, and some vinegar. 

Boil a nice mealy potato, and mash it very smooth. Add all 
the other Ingredients, and when the whole is well mixed, add 
some vinegar by degrees till it is the consistency of thick cream. 

Salad Dressing, 

One teaspoonfUl of made mustard; one ditto of pounded 
sugar; two tablespoonfUls of salad oil; four of cream; two of 
vinegar ; Cayenne and salt to your taste. 

Put the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and 
add the oil, drop by drop, careftilly stirring and mixing all the 
ingredients well together. Proceed in this manner with the milk 
and vinegar, which must be added very gradually, or the sauce 
will curdle, then put in the seasoning of Cayenne and salt. It 
ought to have a creamy appearance, and when mixing, the ingre- 
dients cannot be added too gradually, or stirred too much. 

VEQETABIiSS. — FOTATOSS. 
Potato Snow. 
Boil in the usual way some of the best and whitest potatoes 
you can procure ; strain and put them at the side of the firo,till 
they crack and fkll to pieces ; then take away the skin and pass 
the floury potato through a hot wire sieve upon the hot dish on 
which they are to be served. Do not crush the light mass that 
falls, but send it up immediately in the form of snow. 

This is a pretty mode of dressing potatoes. You must have 
a sufficient quantity to heap a large dish, and above all take care 
they are kept hot. 

To Fry Potatoes Whole, 
When fried whole, the potatoes must be previously boiled; 



CUISINE. 



47 



the cold potatoes of the preceding day may be used ; they mast 
b^ peeled, dipped in egg and bread-cmmbs, Aried in plenty of 
butter, and shaken round tiU equally browned ; then drained and 
served, sprinkled with salt. 

Mdshed Potatoes with Onion. 

Boil a large Portuguese onion in two waters till quite tender, 
rub it through a tamis, and mix well with a double quantity of 
mashed potatoes ; add an ounce of butter, and heat the potato 
again before serving. 

Potatoes in Cream, 

Before new potatoes are plentlfhl, a very nice dish may be 
made by paring down the old potatoes to a small size, boiling 
them ten minutes in water, with a teaspoonfUl of salt, draining 
them and steaming with a napkin over the pan for ten minutes 
more ; then strew over them two teaspoonfhls of salt, cover with 
cream, and heat gradually for five or ten minutes longer. Serve 
them In the cream for second course. 

Boasted or Baked Potatoes. 
Next to boiling, the most simple mode of cooking potatoes is, 
to wash them very clean, selecting tolerably large potatoes, and 
roast them before the fire in a Dutch oven, or on a baking-tin in 
a common oven. They will, if large, require nearly two hours 
to make them thoroughly cooked. They must be served in the 
skins, folded In a napkin. Send in butter-pats with them. 

Mashed Potatoes, 
Late in the season, when the old potatoes are disfigured by 
specks, mashed potatoes are in request ; and wfth due care per- 
haps this is the most agreeable mode of sending them to table. 
They must be boiled and steamed according to the first direc- 
tion, carefully peeled and examined, so that no particle of skin 
or any other extraneous matter remain. Add a teaspoonfUl of 
salt, a slice of butter, and two or three tablespoonfUls of milk or 
cream, according to the quantity of your potatoes, and with a 
wooden spoon beat them lightly and thoroughly to a smooth 
and frothy mass, without a single lump. Then heat them a min- 
ute or two in a stewpan before you turn them into the dish, 
when they can be either served at once, or browned in an oven. 
In some families, it is the custom to brown the mashed potatoes 
for a few minutes under the roast meat before it is taken up f^om 
the spit. 



48 



CUISINE. 



Fried Potatoes, 
Time, firy ten xninutes. Boll some potatoes in their skins; 
when cold, peel them, and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch 
thick, and fry them in butter, or beef dripping, a nice delicate 
brown. When done, take them out with a slice to drain any 
grease Arom them, and serve piled high on a dish ; or they may 
be chopped up small, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and 
Med lightly in butter, turning them several times that they may 
be nicely browned. Serve in a covered dish. 

Potato Bibbons, 
Time, ten minutes. Wash and remove any specks Arom some 
nice large potatoes, and when peeled, lay them in cold water for 
a short time ; then pare them round like an apple ; but do not 
cut the curls too thin, or they are likely to break. Fry them very 
slowly in butter a light color, and drain them Arom the grease. 
File the ribbons up on a hot dish and serve. 

CEIiEBT. 

Tm&RB are few of the cultivated vegetables more useftil than 
the celery for adding delicate flavor to the dishes compounded of 
various materials. This peculiar flavor cannot be imitated; 
Preston & Merrill's extract of celery is a good substitute. It 
is chiefly used for an ingredient in made dishes, for sauces, or 
salads ; but may also be sent in, dressed in several ways. 

To Stew Celery. 
Strip off the outer leaves and wash very well six heads of cel- 
ery, not too thick ; cut them up into pieces of six inches in length 
boil them in salt and water till tender, then lift them Arom the 
water and drain thoroughly. Put them into a stewpan, with as 
much good brown gravy as will cover them, add two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, and one of pepper, thicken with an ounce of batter 
rubbed in flour ; simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve in 
the gravy. 

To Boil Cabbages. 
Cut off the stems, remove all the decayed and outer leaves, and 
steep them in salt and water for an hour with the stem upper- 
most to remove any dust or insects. Then divide each cabbage 
into four, splitting through the heart down to the stem, which 
leave entire till after boiling, and put the cabbages into boiling 
water with a teaspoonfUl of salt, leaving the pan uncovered, and 



J 



CUISINE. 



49 



skimming it occasionally. Let them boil three-quarters of an 
hoar, then take out the cabbages, and carry away the water in 
which they have been first boiled to some distance from the 
hoase, or the smell will be perceived in every room. Replace 
this with clean boiling water, and allow the cabbages, if of good 
size, to boU as long again. When thoroughly tender, take out 
the cabbages, drain them well in a hot colander, cut oflf the stem, 
and serve them in the quarters in a deep dish with a small piece 
of bntter in the midst, and a little pepper and salt sprinkled over 
them. 

To Steuo Cabbages, 

Boil a large cabbage in two waters for half an hour each time ; 
in the mean time, put into a stewpan two ounces of butter and a 
large onion sliced, and shake It round till the onions are browned; 
add a small bunch of herbs. Take up the cabbage, drain it, and 
press it quite dry between two heated trenchers ; then put it 
into the stewpan, with two teaspoonftds of salt, one of pepper, 
and two tablespoonfUls of good gravy. Let it stew for half an 
hour, then serve with cutlets or any sort of chops. 

To BoU Cauliflower, 

This universally-liked summer vegetable may be had from June 
to October, when its successor, brocoll, follows to supply the 
winter season. Cauliflower should be cut in the early morning, 
while the dew hangs upon it ; if this be suffered to evaporate, the 
vegetable becomes tough and vapid. Trim the outer leaves, cut 
the stem away close, and plunge the vegetable Into cold water 
salted, for an hour before it is dressed. Put a large tablespoon- 
ftil of salt into boiling water, and skim till the water be quite 
clear, or the color and appearance of the vegetable will be in- 
jured ; then put the cauliflowers in, and boil slowly till they are 
tender, that is, from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to 
size • but not one minute longer than necessary, or they will be 
spoiled. Drain, and serve them Immediately with melted but- 
ter. 

Cauliflower in White Sauce. 
Boil the cauliflower as above, but only half the time necessary 
to render it tender; then drain, and divide neatly into three or 
four parts, according to the size ; put the pieces into a stewpan 
with as much good white sauce as will cover the vegetable, and 
stew gently for ten minntes ; then lift out the pieces, arrange 
8 



50 CUI8INK 



them on a hot dish as a whole cauliflower, and serve the sance 
round it. This is a favorite mode of dressing cauliflower. 

To Dress Tomatoes. 

The tomato, or love-apple, is, in fiict, a fhiit ; but being usually 
sent to table dressed as vegetables, we include it with them. 
The most simple mode of cooking them is to boil them like veg- 
etables, in boiling water and salt, for a quarter of an hour; then 
drain, peel, mash them smooth, with a due proportion of salt 
and pepper; and a minced eschalot; or roast them in a Dutch 
oven, turning them frequently for ten minutes or a quarter of an 
hour. They must then be served whole. 

Forced Tomatoes, . 

Open the top and extract the seeds from half a dozen tomatoes ; 
flll up the middle with sausage meat ; put them into a stewpan 
with as much bouillon as will cover them, a clove of garlic, two 
teaspoonfhls of salt, and half a teaspoonlUl of Cayenne. Stew 
gently for a quarter of an hour in good gravy ; then take out the 

garlic, add a teaspoonM' of lemon-Juice, and serve in the gravy. 

TUBNIPS. 
To Boil Turnips, 
Young turnips come into use in May, and from that time till 
the frosts begin, turnips are always available for the table, but 
after that, they are not used except for cattle. Peel off at least 
half an inch of the outside, which, except when the root is very 
young, is flbrous and uneatable. If large, cut them in halves, 
put into boiling water, in which a little salt has been thrown, 
cover the pan and boil gently till quite tender. This will be 
according to age and size, from twenty minutes to an hour. Then 
drain and send them in whole. If very young, about two inches 
of the green top may be left. 

To Mash Turnips. 
The most common mode of sending in turnips is mashed. They 
must be boiled till tender; then pressed between two wooden 
platters till perfectly dry ; put into a pan, and beat with a wooden 
spoon, passed through a colander, then stirred over the fire with 
a teaspoonftil or two of salt, one of pepper, one of powdered 
sugar, an ounce of butter, and as much cream or milk as you can 
stir in, without leaving any liquid. Stir till much of the moisture 
' is evaporated, then serve quite hot. 

Turnips in White Sauce, 
The turnips must be young. Pare them, point the upper end. 



CUISINE. 



51 



and cut off the lower end to make them stand ; boil them till 

tender ; then drain and arrange them with the points uppermost 

on a dish, and serve them in a rich white sauce, to which yon 

mnst add a little sugar, which it is always desirable to use in 

dressing turnips to correct the slightly bitter taste. This is a 

second-course dish. 

Turnips in Gravy. 

Slice the turnips and put them, with two ounces of butter, into 
a stewpan, shaking it round till they are browned. Season with 
salt, pepper, a teaspoonfhl of sugar, and a little mace. Pour over 
them a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy, and when quite hot 
serve them in it. 

CABBOT8. 
To Boil Carrots. 
Carrots which are stored for use are rarely out of the mar- 
ket, and are useftil for their own quality, and much valued for 
ornamenting many dishes. They must be well washed for boil- 
ing, and brushed, but not peeled or scraped. If very large, cut 
into two parts, put them into boiling water a little salted. Boil 
gently till tender, usually from half an hour to an hour and a 
half. When boiled, rub off the skin, an4 slice or send them in 
cut in lengths, with good melted butter. 

Carrots b, la MaUre cTffdtel. 
Wash and brush the carrots and cut up in pieces about two 
inches in length. Boil them till tender in salt and water, in 
which an ounce of butter has been melted. Put into a stewpan 
two ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonftd of chopped parsley, 
the usual seasoning of salt and pepper, and let all mix for ten 
minutes. In the mean time, drain the carrots and put into the 
sauce ; stew for ten minutes and serve. 

To Mash Carrots. 
Wash and scrape the skin off three pounds of carrots ; cat 
them in pieces, and boil them in salted boiling water, with an 
ounce of butter, for an hour and a half, till quite pulpy ; then 
drain and rub them through a colander. Put the pulp into a 
stewpan, with an ounce of butter, half a pint of cream, a tea- 
spoonfUl of salt, one of powdered sugar, and one of white pep- 
per; stir over the fire for a few minutes, then serve on a dish, 
with fried sippets at second course. 

To Fry Carrots. 
Half boil the carrots, then cut them in slices a quarter of an 



52 CUISINE. 



inch thick, dip them in egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, then try 
them in batter; drain them and serve piled on a dish veiy hot. 

Parsnips, 

These nseftil roots may be boiled, stewed, or fried in the same 
way as carrots. They require more or less boiling, according 
to size, and must be tried with a fork to ascertain when they are 
tender. The parsnip is more farinaceous than the carrot and 
turnip, and is more easily digested by weak stomachs. When 
Aried, they are often sent in with roast mutton. 

To Boil Asparagus, 

Time, fifteen to eighteen minutes after the water boils. One 
teaspoonfhl of salt to half a gallon of water. 

Scrape very clean all the white part of the stalks Arom the 
asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water, tie them up 
in bundles, cut the root ends even, and put them in a piece of 
muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide stewpan of spring 
water, with the above proportion of salt ; and when it boils, lay 
in the asparagus, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes, or until 
it is tender. Have a thin slice from a loaf nicely toasted, cut it 
in square pieces, dip them in the asparagus water, and put them 
in the dish. Take up the asparagus, lay it on the toast with the 
white ends outwards, and the points meeting in the centre. 
Serve with melted butter in a tureen. 

Asparagus as Young Peas (JEntremety 

Take the green heads of very young asparagus, and cut up 

into small pieces no larger than peas; put them into boiling 

water with a little salt, and boil for ten or twelve minutes ; drain 

them a minute or two on a clean napkin, then put them into a 

stewpan with an ounce of butter, a sprig of mint, a tablespoon- 

fUl of cream, a teaspoonfUl of salt, and as much powdered sugar. 

Stew for ten minutes, shaking round the pan ; then stir in the 

beaten yolks of two eggs, and in three minutes more turn the 

asparagus out on a dish, and serve in the sauce, with sippets of 

fried bread. 

ONIONS. 

To Stew Onions. 
Take off the outer skin of six Portuguese or large Ameiican 
onions, and trim the top and stalk without cutting into the bulb, 
or it will fall to pieces in stewing. Fry them lightly in butter, 
turning them over till they are of a uniform light brown color. 
Then put them into a wide stewpan, so that they do not lie one 



CUISINE, 



53 



on another. Season them with pepper and salt, cover with 

a rich brown gravy, and stew gently for twenty minutes, or till 

tender; then turn them out, upside down, and serve in the 

gravy. 

To Boast Onions, 

The Portuguese onions are the best for roasting. They should 
not be peeled, but half J)oiled for about ten minutes or a quarter 
of an hour, in proportion to their size ; then take them out and 
roast them in an oven till quite tender ; serve them in their skins 
on a napkin, either alone or mixed with roasted potatoes. They 
are eaten with cold butter, salt and pepper. 

Onions k la Crime. 

Peel and boil some middle-sized onions in salt and water till 
quite tender, drain them, and throw them into a stewpan with 
two ounces of butter, rolled in flour; shake them round till the 
butter is quite dissolved, add a teaspoon ftil each of salt and 
white pepper, and then stir in by degrees, as much cream as 
will nearly cover them. Shake the pan round, tUl it is on the 
point of boiling ; then serve. 

Onions ^ V Italienne, 

Peel and parboil six middle-sized onions, then drain and 
leave them to cool. Make a small opening at the top, and scoop 
out a part of the inside, supplying the place with a mixture of 
two ounces of grated cheese, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped small, and as much grated breadcrumbs steeped in 
boiling cream as will suffice to fill the onions. Season with salt 
and pepper, and when well mixed fill the onions ; dip them in 
beaten yolk of egg and fine breadcrumbs, and try them a light 
brown. Serve them with tomato sauce. 

FOBOBMEATS. 
One of the perfections of good cooking is the skilful compo- 
sition of forcemeats, to impart to the dish of which they form a 
part, the fiavor and relish which it peculiarly requires ; and to 
proportion the ingredients so that no one should predominate, 
but the combination form one harmonious whole ; especially the 
cook must be careftil not to exceed the just proportion of herbs, 
or of spices, and to season as it may suit the dish it ac- 
companies. 

Sttiffing for Boost Pork, 
One middle-sized Spanish onion boiled for ten minutes and 
drained, chopped with a tablespoonftil of sage very finely ; mix 



54 



cuismjs. 



these with three tablespoonftils of fine bread-crumbs, a tea- 
spoonfUl of salt, and half a teaspoonM each of pepper and 
mustard. Bind with the yolk of an egg. 

Stuffing for Boast Goose or Duck, 

Boil three large onions for half an hour; press them, and 
mince finely with one tablespoonfUl of sage, and four table- 
spoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; add one teaepoonftd of salt, one of 
moist sugar, one of mustard, half a teaspoonfUl each of pepper 
and mace, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. 

This is, we think, an improvement on the common sage-and- 
onion-stuffing. 

Excellent Forcemeat ^ alia for Soups. 

Cut some slices from a cold ftUet of veal, with a small pro- 
portion of the fat, and pound in a mortar with one-third the 
quantity of butter; measure the paste in a tablespoon, and put 
the same quantity of crumbs into a saucepan, with a due pro- 
portion of pepper, salt, mace, and chopped parsley; cover all 
with cream, and stir over the fire till the cream is absorbed. 
Let it cool; then add it to the veal paste, with the yolks of 
two or three hard-boiled eggs, in proportion to your quantity 
of veal and crumbs ; mix and pound this in the mortar ; then 
bind all with the white of egg beat into snow. Roll the paste 
into small balls, and poach or fry them lightly before you add 
them to the soup. 

Forcemeat Eggs. 

Boil six eggs till the white be firm ; peel off the shell, cover 
them thickly with the forcemeat in the preceding receipt ; fry 
them till quite brown, and serve in a rich brown gravy. 

Potato Balls. 

Mash a pound of potatoes with cream, a quarter of a pound 
of grated ham, a teaspoonfhl of minced parsley, half a tea- 
spoonfhl each of salt, pepper, and mace ; bind all with the yolks 
of two eggs ; mould into balls, fry in butter, brown, and serve 
in good brown gravy. 

Egg Balls for Pies or Soups. 

, Boil four eggs for ten minutes ; put them into cold water, 
and when quite stiff, remove the white and put the yolks into 
a mortar, with a teaspoonftil of flour, as much finely-minced 
parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonfUl of black 
pepper; or, if preferred, a quarter of a teaspoonfUl of Cayenne ; 
pound the whole into a smooth paste and mould into very small 



L 



CUISINE, 



55 



balls, as they will expand in the boiling water, into which yon 
must throw them for two minutes before you use them for pies 
or soups. 

Currie Balls. 
Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonfUls 
of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, and a teaspoonfUl of 
currie powder ; pound to a paste, mould into very small balls, 
and dip into white of egg beaten to a fl-oth ; fty them in butter 
before you use them. These balls are sent in to garnish veal or 
fowls, or introduced in mock turtle soup. 

Egg Balls. 
Boil four eggs for ten minutes, and put them into cold water. 
When quite cold, pound them in a mortar with the beat yolk of 
one new egg, a teaspoonfiil of flour, one of chopped parsley, half 
a teaspoonfhl of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonftil of Cayenne, till 
perfectly smooth. Then form into small balls, boil them for two 
minutes, and add to the soup. 

GBAVrBS AND SAVOBT SAXTCES. 

There is nothing better to flavor gravies and sauces than 
Preston and Merrill's cooking extracts of celery, clove, cinna- 
mon, nutmeg, etc. 

One of the great triumphs of cookery Is invariably to send to 
table good pure gravy, and appropriate sauces, to every dish. 
The natural gravy of the meat is always the most delicious, 
and can never be perfectly imitated; but in dry or insipid meats, 
it is necessary to obtain some substitute for this ; and the nicety 
in preparing and combining juices and essences to produce good 
gravies and sauces, is a proof of the skill and Judgment of the 
cook. It is not certainly the extravagant, but rather the eco- 
nomlcai and ingenious cook, who has always at hand ample and 
fitting materials for excellent gravies, and well-flavored sauces. 
We will flrst speak of gravies ; without which the finest joint 
sent to table is tasteless and nntempting. 

Gravies. 
The chief materials for making gravies are, the bones of any 
kind of meat, fowls, or game, which have not been dressed, and 
still retain a certain amount of flavor and juice ; coarse pieces of 
beef, shanks of ham, etc., form the foundation of gravies; yet 
care must be taken not to send to table a weak decoction of meat, 
or simply broth ; but the jelly extracted as we shall direct. 



56 



CUISINE. 



To Draw Beef Gravy. 
Cut up any coarse beef as thin as possible, put it into a stew- 
pan, cover it up, use no water or butter, but throw over It a few 
grains of salt ; put it at the side of the Are till the gravy oozes 
from the meat and glazes on the bottom of the pan ; then pour 
in as much hot broth as will cover the meat, and let it stew tiU 
all the juice of the meat is extracted. This pure gravy may after- 
wards be enriched by seasoning, or flavored by herbs ; but if not 
wanted immediately, it should be set aside to cool, and the fat 
which may collect over it should not be removed till the gravy 
is wanted. 

Clear Beef Gravy, 
Slice thin two pounds of fresh, lean, juicy beef, broil one pound 
over a clear fire about five minutes, to color the gravy, put the 
broiled and raw beef into a stewpan, and pour over it a quart of 
boiling water. Stew gently for half an hour, then skim off the 
fat, and add two onions sliced and fried, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
two cloves, six peppercorns, and a teaspoonftil of salt. Stew for 
two hours, then strain, and simmer till it is reduced to a pint. 
Let it cool, that you may remove any fat, and heat it when 
wanted. 

Bich Brown Gravy, 
Slice three pounds of lean beef and two onions, flour them and 
fry in butter a pale brown; drain them ftom the fat, and put in 
a stewpan with ha.f a pound of lean ham, minced. Pour a quart 
of boiling water over the browning in a fryingpan for Hyq min- 
utes, then add to it the meat ; when it has simmered half an hour, 
add a sprig of parsley and savory, two cloves, a blade of mace, 
six peppercorns, and a teaspoonfhl of salt ; simmer and skim for 
three hours, then strain it, and let it cook. Take off the fat before 
you heat it for use. 

Thickening for Gravies, 
This is merely butter dissolved over a slow flre, and gradually 
mixed with flour in the proportion of three ounces of flour to four 
of butter; it should be stirred in the pan continually, to obtain 
the requisite smoothness, and if wanted for brown gravies, 
should be allowed to remain till it becomes a light brown. For 
white sauces, it must be taken off before it begins to color. It 
is advisable to keep the thickening in a covered jar ready for 
use. A spoonful added to any gravy is commonly sufficient. 



C3-EOE/C3-E IPEE/J^, 

Ladies' & Gent's Dining Rooms, 



CUISINE. 



57 



Economical Gravy for a Fowl. 

If it be necessary to dress a fowl when you have no fresh meat 
or stock ready for gravy, a very good substitute may be made by 
washing the feet of the fowl very clean, cutting up the liver, the 
gizzard and the neck, and laying them all in a saucepan. Add 
to these a single slice of onion and a small slice of bread fried, 
a sprig of parsley and half a teaspoonfiil of mixed pepper and 
salt ; cover with half a pint of hot water, and stew till half re- 
duced ; then take out the liver and pound it, and strain the rest 
of the gravy over it. Add a teaspoonftil of ketchup, shake it 
for a minute over the fire, and it will be ready for use. 

Brown Gravy, 

Put into a stewpan four ounces of butter rolled in flour, and 

an onion sliced; let them brown a few minutes, then add half a 

teaspoonftil of grated lemon-peel, two bruised cloves, a teaspoon- 

ful of salt, half as much pepper. Add to it by degrees half a 

pint of water. 

Gravy for Goose or Duck. 

Put into a stewpan two ounces of butter, a small onion sliced, 
and two or three leaves of sage minced ; brown a little, then 
sprinkle over a teaspoonfUl of salt, half a teaspoonflil of pepper, 
a quarter of a teaspoonftil of Cayenne, and a teaspoonful of un- 
made mustard ; then gradually add a quarter of a pint of gravy 
or beef-stock, and a glass of port wine ; simmer ten minutes, 
strain, and serve in hot round the bird. 

SAUCES. 

Flavor those sauces with Preston and Merrill's celebrated 
cooking extracts. 

The most costly and rich viands brought to table are worthless 
If served with ill-made or unsuitable sauces, or without the pecu- 
liar sauce which forms the true flnish of the meat. Some kinds 
of meat, fowls, and fish especially, are tasteless or insipid with- 
out the appropriate relishing sauce. Apart from the use of the 
necessary sauce, or dressing, which is used at the time of cook- 
ing meats or fish, the oest and most palatable relish to be eaten 
upon them is the Halford Leicestershire table sauce. 

Lemon White Saitce for Fowls. 

Put the thin rind of a small lemon into a saucepan, with a half 
a teaspoonftil of salt ; simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, 
then strain it, and add half a pint of good cream, hot. If you 
wish the sauce particularly rich, you may add four ounces of but- 



58 



CVISINE, 



ter, rolled with a dessertspoonfbl of flour; bat the sauce will 
be very good without it, by stirring in the flour gradually with the 
cream. Simmer it for five minutes, then add careftdly a table- 
spoonftd of lemon-juice, stirring it well to prevent curdling. This 
is an excellent sauce for fowls or rabbits. 

Oyster Sauce ( White) for Fowls. 

Open and beard three dozen oysters, pour the liquor from them 
into a saucepan, and bring it to boil with the beards ; then strain 
the liquor, and put it into a clean saucepan, with three ounces of 
butter, rolled in a dessertspoonftil of flour, and a quarter of a pint 
of hot cream ; simmer for flve minutes, then put in the oysters 
and let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire ten minutes to 
plump them ; they would be hard and indigestible if sufliered to 
boil. Half a teaspoonfUl of white pepper and as much salt, may 
be added, but no other seasoning, that the flavor of the oyster 
may be pure and unmixed. 

Celery Sauce, 

Cut into small pieces four heads of celery ; put them into a 
saucepan with a teaspoonftil of salt and a blade of mace, and 
cover with boiling water ; keep it at the boiling point over the 
Are for ten minutes ; then take out the celery and drain it. Put 
it into a clean saucepan, with half a pint of veal broth or stock 
and stew gently for half an hour, or till the celery be tender as 
pulp ; then add two ounces of butter, rolled in flour, and a quar- 
ter of a pint of cream, and shake gently over the flre for ten min- 
utes. Like oyster sauce, celery sauce is spoiled by any mixture 
of seasoning. It may be served over fowls, or sent in separate 

in a tureen. 

White Onion Sauce, 

Peel and cut in halves six large onions. If Portuguese onions 
can be had, they are the most delicate, and two will then suffice, 
OS they are larger than the American bulb; put them into a 
saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil gently for an hour, 
or till they become perfectly soft ; then drain, chop and bruise 
them, and put into a clean saucepan, with half a pint of milk and 
a tcaspoonflil of salt ; simmer a quarter of an hour, then put 
back into the saucepan, with half a pint of cream, and simmer 
for ten minutes longer. If for boiled rabbits, there must be a 
sufficient quantity to pour over or smother them. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Cut in two, twelve perfectly ripe red tomatoes ; press the seeds 



CUISINE, 



59 



and watery part oat; then put them into a sancepan, with a 
quarter of a spoonful of Cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of 
gravy ; cover and set by the side of the fire to stew gently for an 
hour ; when the ftuit should be melted, press it through a sieve, 
and simmer the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, adding half 
a teaspoonfUl of salt. Serve in a tureen. 

Liver and Lemon Sauce for Fowl. 
Wash the liver of the fowl quite clean, and boil it for five min- 
utes ; then pound it in a mortar with a spoonful of the liquor in 
which it has been boiled, and rub it through a sieve. Take the 
thin cater rind of a lemon and mince half a teaspoonful very 
fine ; remove the white inner skin of the lemon ; cut into thin 
slices ; take oat the seeds, and then cut up the whole into small 
squares ; mix the lemon, the rind, and the pounded liver into 
half a pint of good melted butter, or white sauce, and serve with 
the fowL 

HorseradUh Sauce^ Cold, for Boast Beef. 
Grate two tablespoonfUls of horseradish, pound it in a mortar, 
with a teaspoonfhl of salt, half a teaspoonfhl of mustard in pow- 
der, and half a teaspoonfUl of sugar in powder ; mix ic gradually 
with four tablespoonfhls of cream, and then stir in quickly two 
tablespoonftils of vinegar. 

Horseradish Sauce, Hot. 
This stimulating sauce is chiefly osed for insipid meats, or for 
boiled fish. Grate and pound the horseradish, salt, mustard, and 
sugar, as in the preceding receipt, with the addition of a clove 
of garlic and two ouQoes of butter; when all reduced to a paste, 
put it into a stewpan with half a pint of brown gravy, simmer 
half an hoar, then stir in quickly one tablespoonfUl of vinegar, 
one of port wine, and a quarter of a teaspoonfUl of Cayenne. 
In five minutes, the sauce will be ready. 

Currant Sauce for Venison. 
In some families, the old-fashioned currant sauce is still used 
for venison and roast pig, though exploded at fashionable din- 
ners. Boil two ounces of well-cleaned currants for five minutes 
in half a pint of water, then add two tablespoonfUls of finely- 
grated crumbs, six cloves tied in a piece of muslin, an ounce of 
butter and a glass of port wine ; simmer gently over the fire for 
ten minutes, stirring it till perfectly smooth ; take out the cloves ; 
serve in a tureen. In our opinion, the currants make a better 



60 CUISINE. 



sauce sent to table dry, withoat the crumbs, wMcIi produce a 
sort of pudding. 

Apple Sauce for Boast Goose. 

Fare, core, and slice three large baking apples ; put them into 
an earthenware jar, with two tablespoonftils of water, cover the 
jar, and put into a slow oven for three-quarters of an hour, then 
\ add half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and half an ounce of 
butter, and beat with a fork into a light pulp. Seire in a tureen. 

Sauce for Wild Duck. 

Mix gradually in a basin one dessertspoon of lemon juice, one 
of powdered sugar, one of walnut ketchup, one of Halford's 
sauce, three of port wine, one saltspoon of salt, and half as much 
Cayenne. When all are well mixed, heat the sauce thoroughly, 
and send it in a tureen. It must be poured over the breast of 
the bird as soon as it is cut, that it may mingle with the drawn 
gravy. No other gravy should be served with the duck. 

Sauce ^ la MaUre cTHatel. 

This useful sauce is largely used for warming up many kinds 
of meat, fowl or flsh, and thus making a handsome addition to a 
dinner. The foundation must be half a pint of clear stock, or 
gravy ; put this into a saucepan and thicken with an ounce of 
butter rolled into as much flour as will form it into a smooth 
paste ; stir it over the Are till well mixed, then add a teaspoon- 
ftil of salt, a quarter as much Cayenne, a dessertspoonful of 
lemon juice, and as much very flnoly-minced parsley. Simmer 
for a few minutes, and before you serve, thicken with the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs, stirred in with great care to avoid 
curdling. 

Poor Man's Sauce. 

This sauce, notwithstanding its unpromising name, is excel- 
lent for roast turkey, and is popular even in France. Put a 
tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley with a teaspoonflil of 
grated horseradish, into a tureen ; sprinkle these with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and add two tablespoonfUls of oil, and four 
of vinegar. Mix all well together before you send it in. 

A Common Sauce for Boiled Fish, 

Half a pint of veal gravy with two tablespoonftils of the 
water in which the fish has been boiled, a whole onion, and a 
tablespoonfUl of walnut ketchup ; simmer for a quarter of an 
hour, then strain, and thicken with an ounce of butter rolled 
in flour. 



BUY THE^BEST! 

If ;-ou «Bnt the LATEST IMfROVBUE^IT In 
Clothes Wrmcemb, buy the In proved 



b>, Bdiiptliig Itvir lo ei 



It Jittis air Wriuer era illml ti Itc pUlc. 

aenUBreBlao on the new National o 



IRON Fhaued [ 

The Improved umvriwauib re<:omm4 diipq a* flu|ii:-rpur lu nil 
olhere by Iba JneHcan AgricatOtrtUt^ IFntckman tatd 
ttffifctoT, CoagrtgatloaalUt, and ibe reiigioai aiid aMtieuUurBl 

"THE IIKERSAl MD MTIDIkl ME TTilllRAHTED IKE BEST." 

GEO. H. HOOD, Qen'l Agent, 
No. 97 Wtter Street, Boston. 

WBINGSBB OV AIJi EIKDS BfiPAIBED. 



American Peerless Soap. 


Somi^rTilU, aoM-, Mnrch'll.lBSS. 
CurtUDarli. Danr Sir: — Encloied I band ynu a line lo rpgard to yonr 
do ?0™any gnod"^h ruTte b]^.° '"" """' "'*'"' " P™!"^- 

For the pant Ave years wo have uied T»rlont kinda of Soap tor Laundry piir- 
poai «, After Hiving the AmcrloBU I'cuiltM Washing dnap a fulr Iriid we prefer 
It to any we have uaed. OBO. W. WUri'TI.B. SUward. 
OiTicE or TOE Nation, Ko. 21 Corahill. 

BoalOD, BeiiWDiber 20, IWH. 

rurtU navli, Etq. I>ear8ir: — Ploa-ennd me a boiof tn« feerlru Snap. 

We llkv the soap mucli. I hnvo uiad It for three or foor yearn, ani regard ii, 

batbiug or waablng It i. what It. name^o.lloa..*^^ ■■ l'«tle-.."^ ^^ vi^^KV.. 

1 


1 i 

1 

Phovidf.ncb, R. I., July U, ISTO. 

Curlli Basts, Eiq. DearSIrt— We have uwdyour American I'eerleBK Soap 

In my family for more than two yeara, I lnqulr>4 to-day how It was llktd. and 

*''li'addtll' n w'tbis p1i>o°f"o'f'M™riJlfce.''l'M« the Soap becaaae I Iwllere 11 to 
he boneilly made, of pure and Rrst quality malerlala, and being so made, It Is 
more veononiical than the greater portion of Hoap we flad In market. 

A, h Tollel Soap wb lb!n°k Lt 1. iw auperlor lo that whieh !■ sold, aa .neb, la 
large qu«..IU«. In o.r market. Truly your^^^^, ^ ^^^^^ ^ ^ 


SOLD BY GROCERS. 


CTTRTIS DAVIS, - - - Manufacturer. 


es CHATHAM STREET, BOSTON. MASS. 



CUISINE, 



61 



A Good White Sauce for Ftsk. 

Boil for a quarter of an hour in a quarter of a pint of water, 
three anchovies, a blade of mace, six white peppercorns and a 
clove; then strain the liquor into a clean saucepan, add an 
ounce of Sutter rolled in flour, and a teaspoonfUl of lemon- 
Juice, and when these are well blended, stir in by degrees half 
a pint of cream, and let all simmer a few minutes, then serve 
in a tureen. 

N. B. — In every case the cook must remember that the 
sauce for boiled fish must be thicker than that which is for 
broiled or fried. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

This Is a delicious sauce for salmon, trout, and many kinds 
of flsh ; but is rather tedious to prepare. For a large party 
you will require a quart of shrimps, perfectly fresh, as then 
they will be easily shelled; put the heads and shells into a 
saucepan with two tablespoonftOs of water, and boil for a quar- 
ter of an hour to extract the flavor. In the mean time, make 
three-quarters of a pint of melted butter, strain into it the 
liquor in which the shells have been boiled; then stir in the 
shrimps, and siiake over the fire two or three minutes before 
you serve. No seasoning is required with shrimp sauce. 

Mackerel Sauce, 

Put the roes of the mackerel into a saucepan with two or 
three tablespoonfUls of water, and simmer for ten minutes, 
take them out and beat them smooth with a wooden spoon, 
and mix with them the yolks of two eggs, well beat up with a 
teaspoonftil of salt, half a teaspoonfUl of pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of either fennel or parsley, chopped very fine. Mix 
the whole with three-quarters of a pint of melted butter, and 
serve when hot. 

COIiD BAUOBS, STOBB SAUCES, £T0. 
Cold sauces are those well blended and agreeable mixtures 
which are adapted to give a piquant zest to the more insipid 
meats, or to correct the strong flavor of those which are too 
rich. They are usually easy of preparation, and pleasant and 
elegant additions to the table. 

MitU Sauce for Lambs. 
Though every cook professes to make mint sauce, it is from 
its very simplicity* often prepared carelessly and hastily. Pro- 



62 CUISINE. 



cure fresh, green, young leaves of mint, wash them well and 
mince very fine ; mix In the proportion of two tablespoonftQs 
of minced meat to two teaspoonftils of powdered sugar, stir 
them together in the tureen, and then pour over four table- 
spoonfUls of good vinegar; make the sauce immediately be- 
fore it is wanted. It is served in a tureen, with hot or cold 
roast lamb. 

Horseradish Sauce for Boast Beef. 

The horseradish must be well washed, brushed and scraped ; 
grate two tablespoonfUls and put into the tureen with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonfUl of mustard in powder, and two 
tablespoonfUls of cream; when these are well mixed, add 
gradually four tablespoonfUls of vinegar. 

Horseradish is in the best state for grating about November 
and December, 

/Sauce for Cold Fowl or Game. 

Found in a mortar the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, with a 
tablespoonfUl of vinegar, an anchovy, and a teaspoonfUl of 
mustard ; when all is quite smooth, add a tablespoonfUl of fine 
salad-oil, ajod another tablespoonfUl of vinegar, and rub till 
quite blended. Strain it and serve in a tureen. 

Sauce a la MaUre d^Hotel, cold. 

Rub in a mortar two ounces of butter, a desserts poonfhl of 
finely-minced parsley, a teaspoonfUl of salt, and half as much 
pepper ; when quite smooth, blend the whole with two table- 
spoonfUls of lemon-juice. Serve with steaks, chops, etc., on 
the dish. 

Sauce Jor Boast Goose or Pork, 

Put into a Jar two ounces of green sage-leaves, an ounce of 
the thin rind of a lemon, a teaspoonfUl of salt and a drachm 
of Cayenne; pour over them half a pint of port wine or claret, 
cover the Jar and let it stand ten days. When wanted for use, 
pour off the wine clear, and send up in a tureen. If not used, 
it will keep if in a covered jar. 

TABTiFi SAUCES, KBTCHUTS, ETO. 

Halford Sauce. 

The famous Halford Leicestershire table sauce has become 

national. It is in use trom Portland to San Francisco, and f^om 

the Lakes to the Gulf. Its merits have secured for it the most 

unprecedented demand. 



1 



CUISINE. 63 



Tomato Sauce. 
Pat the tomatoes into an earthen Jar, and set them into an 
oven till perfectly soft ; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and 
"weigh it. To every three pounds of juice add a pint of Chili vin- 
egar, a teaspoonfUl of salt, three cloves of garlic, pounded, a 
quarter of an ounce of ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of black 
pepper ; add the juice of a good-sized lemon, boil up the whole 
till it is thick as cream, then let it cool, and bottle it in wide- 
mouthed bottles, closely covered. It is an excellent flavor for 
many flsh sauces. 

Walnut Ketchup. 
Take three hundred young walnuts (they are generally in a fit 
state early in August), pound them small, adding, as you pound, 
one pound of salt ; then put them into a quart of vinegar fbr 
four days, press all well through a hair bagy add to each quart 
of the liquor extracted one drachm of clovee, one drachm of 
mace, one draclmi of Cayenne, half a pound of anchovies, and one 
clove of garlic, and boil all for three quarters of an hour ; skim 
it till clear, then add half a pint of port wine to each quart, sim- 
mer a few minutes longer, let it stand till cold, then pour off the 
ketchup quite clear ; or you can add the mace and cloves to it 
as you bottle it off. 

Oyster Ketchup. 

To obtain and preserve a flavoring of oysters to use in the 
months when oysters are prohibited, is very desirable, and the 
following receipt has been successfully tried : Pound in a mor- 
tar three hundred oysters, after carefhlly setting aside all the 
liquor f^pm the shells : then put them, with the liquor, into a 
stewpan, adding a pound of anchovies, the thin grated rind of 
one lemon, a tablespoonfhl of lemon-juice, and a bottle of thin 
white wine. Cover the pan and simmer gently for an hour, then 
strain it, add a teaspoonftd of pounded mace and two dozen pep- 
percorns; it is best without any other seasoning; boil it up 
with the spices a few minutes, then let it cool, and bottle it. It 
will be found an excellent flavor for sauces and steaks. 

Horseradish Vinegar. 

Put into a jar four ounces of grated horseradish, a teaspoonftil 
of Cayenne, two teaspoonfUls of salt, and one tablespoonftil of 
mustard ; pour over them a quart of boiling vinegar, and set the 
covered jar by the fire for a fortnight; then boil up the vinegar, 



6i 



CUISINE. 



let it cool, strain through a Jelly-bag, and bottle. It is an excel- 
lent relish for salads, cold meat, etc. 

To Make Mustard. 
Mustard is considered to be one of the most wholesome of con- 
diments. It is always best to prepare it in small quantities, and 
send it up quite Aresh. It should be smoothly blended with milk 
or cream, to which a small portion of salt may be added, till re- 
duced to the proper consistence. If required piquant, vinegar 
or horseradish vinegar may be substituted for the milk. 

COFFEE. 

How to Select it, and How to Make it. 

The following description of different varieties of coffee will 

prove a valuable aid to housekeepers in selecting this important 

item for the table. We place them in the order of merit as their 

relative qualities are estimated by the public. 

No. 1. Male Berry Java. 

We place this at the head of the list, as the richest, strongest, 
highest flavored, and beet of all ; although not the highest in 
price. It is the round, bean-shaped berry (to be seen In all kinds 
of coffee). It can never come into general use, as the quantity 
is of necessity limited by reason of its being picked by hand, 
Arom the choicest old government Java, where it grows in~ the 
proportion of one to twenty-five, common flat beans only. It 
must not be confounded with the male berries picked from Bio, 
and other cheap coffees, which resemble it in appearance, and 
which are frequently sold as the same thing by unprincipled or 
uninformed dealers. The genuine article is imported by tho 
Ojusntal Tba Company, of Boston, where it may always be 
obtained. It is a luxury that should be kept in every family, at 
least for '* company," while those accustomed to its use affirm 
that its superior strength makes it as economical to use as the 
cheaper kinds. 

No. 2. Old Government Java. 

The genuine article, which grows at a high altitude on the sunny 
slopes of the mountains in Java, where it can fUlly ripen on the 
trees, is a delicious, rich, smooth-flavored coffee, of good 
strength, which stands deservedly high. It contains less of the 
property which induces headache, nervousness, etc., and can 
therefore be drank more freely than other kinds. The male beny 
described above is picked from this coffee. 



J 



HUNNEWELL'S 

Standard Preparations, 




A Perfect Family Pill, The great 

yuralgiOr and I 
ttait grtplHg. rout ComplalalM. 

The above Standard and Reliable preparations, bare never, 
for a repntatlon, desecrated Nature's Rocks or Way-sides, bot 
rest on a legacy of Tnent; Years of perfect results, and hare 
proved themaelTes , 

A PEEFEOT SEOESSm IN EVERT FAMILY. 



Hunnewell's Opal Cement. 



CELEBRATED CEMENT 

baa prpved Itecif all tbal iraa «■ 
p*cted, and all ilaicaii be wanted 
for Uie UeDdlng; at Glaai, 
Cnwkerr, Pulniu, Hiiil 
ValBBble StDuei, without 
laiiTlIiB msrkanhcr* liro- 
ksn, and nlll itand anr 

PBICE sons. PER BOmB, 
Bt IIUI 35 Us. 

JOBS I. llEWELL, 

l*roprle tor, 

9] famrcial Slretl, Bosloi. 

SOIDBTALLIEALEIIS. 



BlSMOVAIi. 



THB HBADQUABTERS OF 



White's Specialty for Dygpepda 



n REMOYSD TO 



107 Washington Street, 



BOSTON. 



NTBJSIT TO HCBRA-LID OlFnOB- 



" Honor to whom Honor is Dub." — Mr, White, in giving 
to the world a remedy for ^* that living deaUi," dyspepsia, has 
made himself a pnblic benefactor. He has prepared a medicine 
for a specific purpose, tie does not claim it to be a remedy for 
every known disease. It is just what Its name purports it to 
be, — ^* a specialty for dyspepsia." It fills a place in the science 
of medicine that has long been needed. I^ comes as the almost 
certain cure for a malady that has become, in consequence of 
our mode of living and working, a national disease, and the 
fruitful source of diseases innumerable. The wonderfUl sale of 
this Specialty is not the result simply of extended advertisiDg. 
It has been thoroughly tested in its daily use by the thousands 
seeking relief from a disease that other remedies have, in many 
cases, only aggravated. The popularity of ** White's Specialty " 
is in its success. — Christian Era (Boston)* 



CUISINE, 



6& 



No. 3. Mocha* 

This is the uncultlFated native coffee of Arabia, where it grows 

wild, and is gathered in limited quantities by the natives. It 

has a rank, soar taste, not at all pleasant to those unaccnstomed 

to its nse. Bat for its scarcity, it would probably be the cheapest 

instead of the highest in price, as, alone, but few would care to 

drink it. A small quantity mixed with Java, is considered by 

some 4in improvement. 

No, 4. Bio. 

This variety is the most common and best known of all. It 
constitutes about three-fourths of the entire production in the 
world. Its strong, rank, peculiar flavor is well known. It is 
much in j!^vor with those who desire only a powerful, hot drink 
with their food, without regard to flavor or taste. 

Singapore, Ceylon, Costa Sica, Maracaibo, 

These are all good, pleasant drinking cofl'ees, — inferior to the 
Java in strength and flavor, and not as pungent as the Rio. They 
are all frequently sold under the name of Java. 

Other Kinds, 

There are various other kinds grown in small quantities, in- 
cluding Cape, African, Malabar, etc., they are either deficient in 
strength or very rough and unpleasant in taste, and are used 
largely for adul^ratiug, or as substitutes for the Java and 

Mocha. 

BEOBIFT FOB COOKHTG COFFEB. 

First Method. — To Cook by steeping. 
The coffee-pot should not be set on the stove under any cir- 
cumstances, but in a vessel of boiling water, with something 
placed therein to separate the bottom of the coffee-pot trom that 
of the vessel, that the 



water in the coffee-pot 
shall not possibly boU. 
It is a good plan to put 
the coffee into the pot 
with a little cold water, 
and allow it to soak for 
several hours (even over 
night) before cooking it. 
Then pour boiling water 
into it in the proportion 
of from six to ten meas- 
ures of water to one of 




66 CUISINE. 



coffee, and set it into the vessel of boiling water for twelve to 
twenty minutes. At the end of this time it will be thorougbly 
cooked and perfectly settled. The most convenient pot for cook- 
ing coffee by this method is the one represented in the a^jolDlng 
cut, manufactured and for sale by the Oriental Tea Company, on 
Court street, Boston. It is made to fit into the tea-kettle, thus 
occupying no extra room on the stove or range. 

Second Method, — To Cook by Leaching, 
Although this is not as convenient or economical a method, it 
is one which insures a good cup of coflbe. Soak the coffee, as 
in the first method, then place it in a double flannel sack, through 
which pour boiling water, letting it drain into the coffee-pot. 
The flannel should be cleaned after using It each time to insure 
good coffee. 

Boiled Coffee. 
While cooking the coffee by either of the above methods, 
double the usual strengh, boil some rich milk or cream. When 
the coffee Is done, pour off the coffee and liquor firom the grounds 
into the cream in the proportion of one part coffee and two parts 
cream ; pour this into cups, and into each put one spoonfhl of 
** whipped milk." 

BEIiISHIiS, BTOL 

Mctcaront 

Time, to boil the macaroni, half an hour; to brown it, six or 
seven minutes. 

Half a pound of pipe macaroni; seven ounces of Cheshire 
cheese; four ounces of butter; one pint of new milk; one quart 
of water, and some bread-crumbs ; a pinch of salt. 
- Flavor the milk and water with a pinch of salt, set it over the 
flre, and when boiling, drop in the macaroni. When tender, 
drain it f^om the milk and water, put it into a deep dish, 
sprinkle the grated cheese amongst it, with the butter. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Time, three ot. four minutes. Some flne large oysters ; one 
ounce and a half of butter; a little lemon Juice, pepper, salt, 
and Cayenne. 

Open a sufllcient number of oysters for the dish, leaving them 
in their deep shells and their liquor; add a little lemon juice, 
pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; put a small piece of butter on each, 
and place the shell carefully on a gridiron over a clear, bright 



CUISINE. 



67 



fire, to broil for a few minates. Serve them on a napkin with 
bread and batter. 

Chickens and Ham Sandwiches, 

Time, abont five minates. Some cold chicken and a little 
ham ; a capfhl of gravy ; one large tablespoonflil of carry paste ; 
a little cheese, and some batter. 

Mince ap some cold chicken, and add a little minced ham to 
it ; then stir it into a capful of boiling gravy and a spoonftil of 
carry paste ; set it over the fire for a few minates, and tarn it 
oat. Stamp some slices of thin stale bread in aroand, with a tin 
catter, and fty them carefhlly. Spread a layer of the fowl and 
ham between two of them, and place on the top a small piece of 
cheese and batter, pressed together with a spoon, to form a 
paste. Pat the sandwiches on a sheet of tin in a qnick oven for 
a few minates. When done, serve them very hot on a folded 
napkin, for sapper. 

Plain Sandwiches, 

Cat some very thin slices of bread and batter ttom. a sqaare 
loaf baked in a tin, and place very thin slices of ham, beef, or 
game between the slices. Season them with salt and mnstard, 
press them on a clean board with the blade of a large knife, cat 
off the crast evenly, and divide them into oblong sqaares. Pile 
them on a table napkin, and serve. 

Toasted Cheese, 

Time, ten minates. Cat eqaal qaantities of Gloacester cheese, 
and having pared it Into extremely small pieces, place it in a pan 
with a little milk, and a small slice of batter. Stir it over a 
slow fire until melted and qnite smooth. Take it off the fire 
qaickly, mix the yolk of an Qg^ with it, and brown it in a toaster 
before the fire. 

Welsh Babbit. 

Time, ten minates. Half a poand of cheese; three table- 
spoonftils of ale ; a thin slice of toast. 

Grate the cheese fine, pat to it the ale, and work it in a small 
sancepan over a slow fire till it is melted. Spread it on toast, 
and send it ap boiling hot. 

BBBAD, FASTB7, KFO. 
To Make Bread. 

Time, one hoar to bake loaves of two poands weight each. 

Seven poands of fioar ; two qaarts of warm water ; a large 
tablespoonfUl of salt; half a gill of yeast. 



68 



CUISINE, 



Put the flour into a deep pan, heap it ronnd the sides, leaving 
a hollow in the centre ; pnt in a quart of warm water ; a large 
spoonflil of salt and half a gill of yeast ; have ready three pints 
more of warm water, and with as much of it as may be necessary 
make the whole into a rather soft dough, kneading it well with 
both hands. When it is smooth and shining, strew a little floar 
on it ; lay a thickly folded cloth over it, and set it in a warm 
place by the Are for four or five hours ; then knead it again for a 
quarter of an hour; cover it over, and set it to rise again ; divide 
it into two or four loaves, and bake in a quick oven. It will take 
one hour to bake It If divided into loaves weighing two pounds 
each, and two hours if the loaves weigh four pounds each. This 
bread need only rise once, and if made of the best superfine floor, 
will be beautifhlly white and light. 

In cold weather, bread should be mixed in a warm room, and 
not allowed to become cold while rising. 

If there is any difficulty as to its rising, set the bowl or pan 
over boiling water. 

It is best to mix the bread at night and cover it close in a 
warm room, should the weather be cold, till the morning. 

Of course, if the family be large, the quantities may be in- 
creased or doubled in proportion. 



YEAST FOWDEB, 

Preston and Merrill's Infallible Yeast Powder is the original, 
best, and cheapest. Insist upon having that or none. 

Some other kinds are made Arom old bones, alum, etc., but they 
use only vegetable substances and the alkali of common salt — 
and make it as strong as can be made Arom these materials — and 
warrant it healthftd. Dyspeptics will flnd that they can eat 
warm biscuits and tea cakes made with our powder when unable 
to eat any other kind of warm bread. 

Self-raising Hour of the very best kind can readily be made by 
putting a medium-sized can of this Infallible Yeast Powder with 
ten pounds of good flour and passing it through a sieve, so as to 
thoroughly mix them. 

This flour is always ready for instant use, and you have only 
to add water or milk, knead it well and put it into a hot oven, 
to produce flue light biscuit in a few minutes. Griddle and bat- 
ter cakes do not need to be made over night, but can be mixed 
in the morning while the flre is kindling. 



CUISINE. 69 



Directions for Using Infallible Yeast Powder, 

Put two teaspoonftils, moderately rounded, of the Powder with 
one quart of flour, and mix thoroughly by sifting or otherwise, 
then add milk or water and make a dough not too stiff, and bake 
at once if you desire, but It does not ii^ure by standing a consid- 
erable time, as bakiiig powders do. 

Potato Bread. 

Time to bake, one and a half to two hours. 

Two and a half pounds of mealy potatoes ; seven pounds of 
flour; a quarter of a pint of yeast; two ounces of salt. 

Boil two pounds and a half of nice mealy potatoes till floury ; 
mb and mash them smooth ; then mix them with sufficient cold 
water to let them pass through a coarse sieve, and any lump that 
remains must be again mashed and pressed through. Mix this 
paste with the yeast, and then add It to the flour. Set it to rise, 
well knead It, and make It into a stiff, tough dough. 

To Make Brown Bread, 

Time, one to two hours, according to weight. 

Three parts of second flour ; the fourth part of rye ; a little 
milk, and the right proportion of water. 

Take three parts of second flour, and the fourth part of rye ; lay 
it one night in a cool place and the next tnoming work it up, with 
a little milk added to the water. Set it at a proper distance ftrom 
the flre to rise, and then make into loaves and bake. 

French Bolls, 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. 

One ounce of butter ; half a pint of milk ; two spoonfhls of 
yeast; one egg; a little salt; one and a half pounds of flour. 

Warm the butter in half a pint of milk ; add a little salt, one 
eggy well beaten, and two spoonftils of yeast, and mix in a pound 
and a half of flour. Let it rise an hour and a half, knead it well, 
make it Into rolls, and bake them in a quick oven on tins. 

Tea Cakes or Loaves, 

Time, half or three-quarters of an hour. 

One egg ; two ounces of butter ; half a pound of flour, two or 
three knobs of sugar. 

Bub the butter into the flour, add the sugar pounded, and mix 
it with one beaten egg. 

It will make two small loaves for tea or breakfast. 

To Make Twists. 

Time, nearly an hour. 



70 



CUISINE. 



Let the bread be made as directed for baker's bread, then take 
three pieces as large as a half-pint bowl; strew a little flour 
over the pasteboard ; roll each piece under your hands to twelve 
Inches length, making it smaller in circnmfeYence at the ends 
than in the middle. Having rolled each piece in this way, take 
a baking tin, lay one part on it, join one end to each of the other 
two, and braid them together the length of the roll, and join the 
ends by pressing them together ; dip a brush in milk^ and pass 
it over the top of your twists ; after ten minutes, set them in a 
quick oven, and bake them for nearly an hour. 

Bread Cakes for Breakfast. 

Time, twenty minutes. 

A piece of risen-bread dough the size of a small loaf; one egg', 
one tablespoonfUl of butter or lard ; a little milk. 

Take a piece of risen-bread dough and work it into one beaten 
e^g and a tablespoonftil of butter or lard ; when it is thoroughly 
amalgamated, flour your hands and make it into balls the size of 
an egg; rub a tin over with a bit of sponge, dipped in butter; 
lay the balls on so as to touch each other until the tin is fUU, 
brush them over with milk, and set them in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes, and serve them hot for breakfEist. When eaten, 
break them open ; to cut would make them heavy. 

Preston & Merrill's Infallible Yeast Powder is put up in large 
cans for ship-stores, restorators, hotels and boarding-houses. 

Albany Breakfast Cakes. 

Time, half an hour. Six eggs ; one quart of milk ; a teaspoon- 
Tbl of salt ; a piece of saleratjis the size of two peas, and suffi- 
cient flour to make a thick batter. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into a quart of milk. 
Add the salt and saleratus, dissolved in a little hot water. Stir 
in sufficient flour to make a thick batter, rub some small tins the 
size of a tea-saucer with butter, and half fill them with the bat- 
ter. Bake them in a quick oven, 

Mvffins. 

Time, twenty to thirty minutes. One and a half ounces of 
yeast ; a quart of warm milk ; a teaspoonfhl of salt, and some 
flour. • 

Add a quart of warm milk to an ounce and a half of yeast, and 
a teaspoonful of salt ; then mix it into rather a soft dough, with 
a sufficient quantity of flour for that purpose ; cover it over with 
a thick cloth, and set it to rise near the flre. When nicely risen, 



CUISINE. 



71 



divide it into as maoy pieces as yoa please, and form them into 

a round with your hands. Spread a thick layer of flour on a 

wooden tray, put the muffins on it, and let them rise again. Then 

bake them on a hot stove or plate until they are lightly colored, 

turning them once. 

Wheat and Indian Crumpets. 

Time, about fifteen minutes. Half a gill of yeast ; a quart of 
warm milk ; a teaspoonfUl of salt, a teacupM of melted butter ; 
some yellow com meal. 

Put the yeast into a quart of warm milk with a teaspoonfUl 
of salt, stir in sufficient wheat flour to make a good batter; set 
it in a warm place to rise ; in the morning add the melted but- 
ter and a handfhl of yellow com meal. Bake them on a hot 
griddle, previously rubbed over with butter before putting on 
the cakes ; a spoonftil of butter will be sufficient for one. 

Oraham jCakes. 

Time, ten minutes. Half or three-quarters of a pint of Gra- 
ham meal ; a quart of water or milk ; a teaspoonful of salt. 

Salt and scald some Graham or oatmeal into as soft a dough 
as can be, and be handled. Roll it an inch thick ; cut it into 
diamonds ; put them on a tin and bake them instantly in the 
hottest possible oven. If the oven is not extremely hot, the 
cakes will come out like flat leather ; you must also be carefdl 
to well scald the meal. 

In the oven these cakes will keep rising, till in ten minutes 
you take them out quite puffed. Nothing can be nicer than 
these cakes made without yeast. 

Velvet Breakfast Cakes, 

Time, twelve or fifteen minutes. One pint of warm milk ; two 
eggs ; half a gill of yeast ; half a teaspoonftil of soft butter ; a 
teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient flour to make a soft dough. 

In a pint of warm milk and two well-beaten eggs, put half a 
gill of yeast and half a teaspoonftil of soft butter, with a tea- 
spoonftil of salt. Stir into it sufficient flour to make a soft 
dough ; strew some flour over it, lay a warm towel over the 
pan, and set it in a warm place to rise (three hours in the sum- 
mer, or until light in the winter) ; dip your hands in flour and 
work the dough down ; make it into small flat cakes, lay them 
on a buttered tin quite near to each other, and brush them over 
the top, and bake them in a quick oven for twelve or fifteen 
minutes. 



y , 



72 



CUISINE. 



These cakes Eiay be mixed at night and baked as rolls for 
breakf)ust. 

Buna for Breakfast. 

To one pint of yeast, add one pint of lake-warm milk, eight 
ounces of dissolved butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, and 
four well-beaten eggs; mix by degrees with these as much 
flour as will form a stiif batter, fill the bun-tins, and set tliem 
before the fire to rise for half an hour, then bake for twenty 
minutes. 

Doughnuts. 

Bub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add 
six ounces of sugar and' half a grated nutmeg; stir in three 
well-beaten eggs and a dessertspoonfhl of yeast, mixed with a 
little warm milk; then add as much more warm milk as will 
make it into a light, smooth dough ; let it stand to rise half an 
hour, then roll it out; cut it into small fancy shapes, and fry in 
abundance of butter or lard a flue brown color ; drain them well, 
and sift over them powdered sugar. 

Sweet Bu8ks. 

With one pound of flour mix two ounces of powdered sugar ; 
beat up two eggs very well with a Jiablespoonftil of good yeast, 
and add this to half a pint of warm milk, in which two ounces of 
butter have been dissolved; pour this into the midst of the 
flour, and form a well of batter; cover the rest of the floar 
over it, and leave to rise an hour ; then knead it up to a flrm, 
smooth dough; cut it up into squares of two inches; leave these 
again to rise on the baking tins another hour, then bake them 
in a slow oven a quarter of an hour, and when cool, put into a 
very cool oven to dry for half an hour. Keep them in a tin 
drawer or box in a warm place. 

Plain Bread Busks. 

Bake some dinner rolls, and while warm, tear them in two, 
and put into a cool oven to dry till perfectly crisp and of a 
bright brown. These rusks are always served at breaklkst with 
chocolate or cocoa. 

Sally Lunn Cakes. 

Mix two tablespoonfUls of light yeast into a pint of warm 
new milk, or cream if you wish the cakes very good ; rub four 
ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, stew Into it half a 
teaspoonfhl of salt, then pour in the milk gradually, beating up 
the batter with a wooden spoon bs you proceed ; add the yolks 



CUISINE, 73 



of three eggs, well beaten, and when smoothly mixed, let it rise 
an hour before the fire ; then fill your cake tins, and bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Pancakes and Fritters. 

Pancakes should be eaten hot. They should be light enough 
to^ toss over in the pan. Snow will serve instead of eggs for 
pancakes. It should be taken whenjitst fallen, and quite clean. 
Two tablespoonfhls of snow will supply the place of one egg. 
Time to try & pancake, five minutes. Whenever the time dlfiers 
on accbont of the ingredients, it will be specified. 

Common Pancakes. 

Time, fire minutes. Three eggs ; one pint of milk ; sufficient 
floor to make a batter; a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Beat three eggs, and stir them into a pint of milk ; add a 
pinch of salt, and sufficient fiour to make it into a thick, smooth 
batter; fry them' in boiling fat, roll them o^er on each side, 
drain and serve them very hot, with lemon and sugar. 

Snow Pafhcakes, 

Four ounces of fiour; a quarter of a pint of milk; and a little 
grated nutmeg ; a pinch of salt; sufficient fiour to make thick 
batter, and three large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. 

Make a stiff batter with four ounces of fiour, a quarter of a 
pint of mUk, or more if required, a little grated nutmeg, and a 
pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number of pancakes, 
and add three large spoonflils of snow to each. Fry them 
lightly, in very good butter, ^nd serve quickly. 

Judges^ Biscuits. 

Break six eggs into a bowl, be t for five minutes ; add half 
pound fine whit sugar, beat en minutes ; add caraway seeds 
and half pound sifted fiour. Mix thoroughly, drop the mixture 
on paper in small cakes, heaping them in the middle ; sift sugar 
over and bake. 

Plan. 

Boil a piece of veal until tender, cut it into strips three inches 
long, put it in the pot with iq with which it is boiled, and 
one teacup of rice, three pounds veal, season with salt, pepper, 
butter, and sweet herbs. Stew gently until the rice is tender, 
and water nearly gone. Add curry powder as you like. 

German Cream Biscuit. 

Four ounces butter; six ounces fine white sugar; seven 
ounces fiour ; one tablespoonM firesh cream ; one egg ; mix the 



74 



CUISINE. 



above into a dough, kneading it well ; cat into cakes and bake 

In quick oven. 

Love Cakes* 

Three eggs ; five ounces sugar ; six ounces flour ; stilt, mace, 

or rose water dropped on paper and sprinkled on sugar before 

baking. 

PASTBY. 

A Light Puff Paste. 

One pound of sifted flour; one pound of fresh butter; two 
teaspoonftils of cream of tartar; one teaspoonftd of soda; a 
little water. 

Work one-fourth of the butter into the flour until it is like 
sand ; measure the cream of tartar and the soda, rub it through 
a sieve, put it to the flour, add enough cold water to bind it, and 
work it smooth; dredge flour over the pasteslab or board, rub a 
little flour over the rolling-pin, and roll the paste to about half 
an inch thickness; spread over the whole surface one- third of 
the remaining butter, then fold it up; dredge flour over the 
pasteslab and rolling-pin, and roll it out again ; then put another 
portion of the butter, and fold and roll again, and spread on the 
remaining butter, and fold and roll for the last time. 

Selfrrising flour can be made by the use of Preston & Merrill's 
Infallible Yeast Powder. 

Very Bich Short Crust. 

Ten ounces of butter; one pound of flour; a pinch of salt; 
two ounces of loaf sugar, and a little milk. 

Break ten ounces of butter into a pound of flour dried and 
sifted, add a pinch of salt, and two ounces of loaf sugar rolled 
fine. Make it into a very smooth paste, as lightly as possible, 
with two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to moisten the 
paste. 

Plain Apple Tart. 

Time, to bake, one hour, or, if small, half an hour. Apples ; 
a teacupfol of sugar; peel of half a lemon, or three or four 
cloves ; half a pound of puff paste. 

Rub a pie-dish over with butter; line it with short pie-crust 
rolled thin ; pare some cooking apples ; cut them in small pieces ; 
fill the pie-dish with them ; strew over them a cupftil of fine 
moist sugar, three or four cloves, or a little grated lemon peel, 
and add a few spoonfuls of water, then cover with puff paste 
crust, trim off the edges with a sharp knife, and cut a small slit 



.1 



CUISINE. 



75 



at each end, pass a giggling iron around the pie half an inch 
inside the edge, and bake in a quick oven. 

Open Apple Tart. 

Time, to bake In a quick oven, until the paste loosens from the 
dish. One quart of sliced apples ; one teacupftil of water ; one 
of fine moist sugar; half a nutmeg; yolk of one egg; a little 
loaf sugar and milk; puff paste. 

Feel and slice some cooking apples, and stew them, putting a 
small cupfUl of water and the same of moist sugar to a quart of 
sliced apples ; add half a nutmeg and the peel of a lemon, grated ; 
when they are tender, set them to cool. Line a shallow tin pie- 
dish with a rich pie paste, or light puff paste ; put in the stewed 
apples half an inch deep ; roll out some of the paste ; wet it 
slightly oyer with the yolk of an egg, beaten with a little milk, 
and a tablespoonftd of powdered sugar; cut it in yery narrow 
strips and lay them in crossbars, or diamonds, across the tart; 
lay another strip round the edge ; trim off the outside neatly 
with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the paste 
loosens from the dish. 

W,nce Pies, 

Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Puff paste ; mince meat. 

Roll out the puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch; line some good-sized patty-pans with it, fill them with 
mince, coyer with the paste, and cut it close round the edge of 
the patty-pan. Put them in a brisk oven. Beat the white of an 
egg to a stiff froth; brush it over them when they are haked; 
sift a little powdered sugar over them ; replace them in the oven 
for a minute or two to dry the egg. Serve them on a table 
napkin, very hot. 

Six pint bottles of Rose Water can be made from one bottle 
of Preston & Merrill's Extract of Rose. 

MTBrCS MSAT. 
Apple Mince Meat. 
Onb pound of currants; one pound of peeled and chopped 
apples ; one pound of suet, chopped fine ; one pound of moist 
sugar; quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two ; the 
juice of four oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel of 
one ; add of ground mace and allspice each a spoonftil, and a 
wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together, and keep it closely 
covered in a cool place. 



Egg Mince Meat. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, shred very fine ; double the quantity of 
beef suet, chopped very small ; one pound of currants washed 
and dried ; the peel of one large or two small lemons minced 
up ; six tablespoonftils of sweet wine ; a little mace, nutmeg and 
salt, with sugar to your taste ; add a quarter of a pound of can- 
dled orange and citron, cut Into thin slices. Mix all well to- 
gether, and press it into a jar for use. 

Lemon Mince Meat, 

One large lemon; three large apples; four ounces of beef 
suet; half a pound of currants; four ounces of white sugar; 
one ounce of candied orange and citron. 

Chop up the apples and beef suet; mix them with the currants 
and sugar ; then squeeze the juice firom a large lemon into a cup. 
Boil the lemon thus squeezed till tender enough to beat to a 
mash ; add it to the mince meat. Four over It the juice of the 
lemon, or Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon, and add the 
citron chopped flue. 

TABT8, ETC. 

Saspherry Tart with Cream. 

Fill the tart-dish with ftesh raspberries, and less than a quar- 
ter of the weight in fine sugar; cover with a thin paste; bake 
half or three-quarters of an hour, according to size ; take it out 
of the oven, raise the cover, beat up the yolks of two eggs well, 
and mix with half a pint of cream and a tablespoonftil of sifted 
sugar ; pour this over the fruit, restore the crust, and return It 
to the oven for five or six minutes. Strew sugar over the crust, 
and serve hot or cold. 

French Plum Tart. 

Fut into a stewpan half a pound of good French plums, with 
four ounces of sugar and two tablespoonftils of water, or of port 
wine, or light French red wine ; stew gently till you can open 
and take out the stones ; extract the kernels, and return half to 
the prunes and sugar. Turn the whole into a tart-dlsh, cover 
with paste, bake three-quarters of an hour, and serve hot. 

Orange Tart, 

Peel two large Seville oranges, and put the peel into a stew- 
pan with an equal weight of sugar and two tablespoonftils of 
water. Simmer till quite tender, and pound the whole to a paste, 
with an ounce of butter, in a mortar ; then cut up the fruit, take 
out the seeds, and remove the white skin ; put it into a tart-dish, 






CUISINE, 77 



with an equal weight of sugar, add the paste^ of the rind, and 
two teaspoonftils of lemon-juice. Cover, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Fresh Barberry Tart. 
Strip the berries ft-om the stalks, and use half the weight of 
sugar, strewing it over each layer of the berries till the dish is 
filled ; pour in two tablespoonflds of cold water, cover, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Cranberry Tart. 
Take a pint of cranberries, and put into a stewpan with four 
ounces of moist sugar, stir them over the fire, and skim for 
twenty minutes. Pour them out to cool; then put Into tart- 
dishes, and cover with paste, or make up in open tarts. 

Jam Open Tarts. 
The shallow tart-pans must be lined with paste, the jam spread 
over, and then bars of crimped paste crossed in lozenges before 
baking, or, the lining of paste may be first baked. 

Preston & Merrill's Yeast Powder is " infallible ** when used 
with good, sweet fiour. 

Omelette with Bread. 
Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfUls of bread-crumbs, three 
tablespoonfnls of cream, a teaspoonftil of salt, half as much pep- 
per, and a drachm of grated nutmeg. Let it stew till the crumbs 
have imbibed all the cream ; take it out, and when cool, beat up 
with six eggs very well ; then fry, and serve as an omelette. 

Macaroni. 
Macaroni, the celebrated paste, the luxury of the Neapolitan, 
and in high repute in all the nations of Europe, though simply 
prepared with the flour of wheat, is never so delicate as when 
of genuine Italian ipanufacture ; not only because the Italians 
are so skilfbl in preparing it, but because the Italian wheat Is 
so peculiarly adapted for the purpose. Even dressed in the sim- 
plest form, macaroni is a light and delicate food, and it must be 
entirely the fault of the cook if it be unwholesome or indigesti- 
ble. This, with some other Italian pastes, Is exceedingly useful 
In cookery, and with meat, may appear both in first and second 
course. 

To Boil Macaroni. 
Put half a i>onnd of macaroni into boiling water, with a tea- 
spoonfUl of salt and half an ounce of butter, and let it boil till 
it is swollen to double the size, but not broken to whiten the 



78 



CUISINE, 



water ; then take it out and drain on a colander, and if to accom- 
pany any meat simply boiled. It is merely mixed with a table- 
spoonilil of clarified bntter, and served. 

Macaroni with CheesBj a Plain Receipt. 
Boll as in the first receipt, and when drained, put into a sauce- 
pan with three tablespoonfdls of grated cheese and an ounce 
of butter, for five minutes till well mixed ; then turn it out into 
a dish, ftost it over with grated cheese, and slightly brown the 
cheese in an oven, without browning the macaroni, or it would 
be tough, or oiling the cheese. 

BAKED SWEIST FUDDnrOS. . 
* In making pnddings,it is essential that all the materials should 
be careftdly prepared, the fiour dry, the milk and eggs ftesh, the 
latter carefUlly beat, the whites and yolks separately, and if for 
a delicate pudding, strained. Currants and raisins require to be 
washed, dried, and made ready for the pudding with nicety; 
suet, if used, must be firesh and perfectly flree from skin. Butter 
is usually strained before It is used. 

The pudding-dish or mould must be buttered before the mate- 
rials are poured in, and after baking, the pudding is usually 
turned out into a hot dish, and served immediately ; this is espe- 
cially necessary for all light puddings and souffles, as will after- 
wards be directed. Custard and bread puddings require a slow, 
batter and rice a quick, oven. Use Preston & Merrill's extract 
of vanilla, lemon, etc., to flavor it. 

Baked Plum Pudding. 

Four one pint of boiling milk over a pound of bread out In 
slices ; as soon as the milk is absorbed and cool, beat the bread 
smooth, adding as you beat it half a pound of chopped rasins, 
three-quarters of a pound of currants, half a pound of flnely- 
shred suet, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter 
of a teaspoonfdl each of salt, grated nutmeg and powdered gin- 
ger, and a glass of wine or brandy. Mix all well, and add four 
well-beaten eggs. Four the batter into a well-buttered dish or 
mould ; bake it in a moderate oven two hours ; turn it oat, sift 
sugar over it, and serve with good pudding sauce or custard. 
Flavored with Preston & MerrilFs cooking extracts. 
Baked Plum Pudding without Suet. 

Pour a pint of boiling new milk over a pound of bread- 
crumbs; beat into it while warm six ounces of butter; then 



CUISINE. 79 



let all remain to cool. When cold, beat it smooth, and add by 
degrees half a pound of chopped raisins, half a* pound of cur- 
rants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of shred 
candled orange, a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of salt, the same of nutmeg, and a glass of 
brandy. Beat all up with four well-beaten eggs. Pour into a 
buttered mould; bake for an hour and a half; turn out, and 
serve, sifted over with sugar, with creams, custard, or good 
sauce. Flavored with Presto^i & Merrill's extract of vanilla, 
rose, lemon or peach. 

This pudding is excellent when cold. 

Plain Bread Pudding. 

This is the most economical and wholesome of family pud- 
dings, and usually a favorite in the nursery. Any pieces of 
cake or bread may be used, either cut up or crumbled. Over 
six ounces of bread pour a pint of boiling milk ; cover it, and 
let it stand till cold; then beat it quite smooth, with two 
ounces of sugar, a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, and one or 
two well-beaten eggs. Bake it half an hour in a buttered dish, 
turn it out, strew sugar over it, and serve with plain butter, 
cream, or sauce. Flavored with Preston- & Merrill's extract of 
vanilla, rose, lemon or peach. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 

Grate half a pound of stale brown bread, mix with it half a 
pound of finely-shred suet, half a pound of currants, six ounces 
of sugar, a drachm of grated nutmeg, three tablespoonfUls of 
cream, and one of brandy ; mix all Well ; then add the yolks 
of six eggs and the whites of four, well beaten. Bake for two 
hours, turn out, cover with sugar, and serve with good sauce. 
Flavored with Preston & Merrill's extract of vanilla, rose, lemon 
or peach. 

Bread and BiUter Pudding. 

Strew a few currants at the bottom of the buttered dish or 
mould ; then place upon them a layer of thin bread and butter, 
over which strew currants and sifted sugar as you choose ; then 
add successive layers of buttered bread and currants till the 
dish be nearly filled. Beat up very well four eggs, with a pint 
of new milk, a drachm of nutmeg, and another spoonftil of 
sugar; pour it over the bread about ten minutes before you 
pat it in the/ oven. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and 
serve with sifted sugar over it, either in the dish or turned out. 






CUISINE. 

The DQtmeg may be omitted, and flavored mith Preston & 
Merrill's extract oroatmeg, vantlla, or lemon. 
Lemon Bread Pudding. 

UIx six oODces of breadcmmba withfOur ounces of powdered 
sugar, andatablespooDfbi of grated lemon peel; add four oonces 
of batter, and simmer for ten mluntes over the fire. Ponr it 

t till cold; then Stir in two tablespoanfbls of lemon-Jalce, 
the yolks of four . eggs weU beaten, and the whites of two. 
J.ine the edge of a dish with pnff-paste, pour In the mixture, and 
bake for thiee-qnarters of on hoar. Serve with cream and 
sugar, sifted over, or sance flavored with Preston & Merrill's 
extract of lemon, etc. 

Ctutard Bread Pudding. 

Make a pint of rich costard ; flavor it with Preston & Merrill's 
extract of almond or peach, etc. ; leave It to be quite cold, and 
prepare your pudding by catting three thin slices of bread and 
butter exactly the size of the pudding dish; over each layer 
strew currants, powdered sugar, and a little flnely'Shred can- 
died lemon. Tlien poor over the custard, a little at a time, 
that the bread may absorb It, letting it stand abont an hoar 
before you bake it, leaving a small quantity of the costard to 
pour over it at the last. Bake in a moderate oven for half an 
hour. 

Batter Pudding. 

No pudding is BO often spoiled by negligent or ignorant prepa- 
ration as the wholesome, nseful family batter padding, wlilch 
may be made very economically without being the stiff, ctommy 
substance which children even tarn away from. To six ounces 
of dry flour add a quarter of a teaspooafal of flue salt ; beat the 
yolks and whites of three or four eggs separately, and strain 
them; then beat them into the flour, tUi yoo make a light, 
smooth batter. Thin this by degrees with a pint of milk, pour 
It into a bottered dish, and bake for three-qnorters of an hoar 
B. brisk oven. Serve with cream or milk, and any kind of 
1, or with saoce flavored with vanilla extract, made by Preston 
£ Merrill. A teaspoonful of Preston & Merrill's yeast powder 
makes the podding light, and saves a port of the eggs. 
Tapioca Pudding. 

Tapioca is made from the root of a tree of Sooth America. It 
mokes a delicate pudding. SUr three tablespoonftils of tapioca 



NATHANIEL C. STEARNS, 

porter and. Bouse 9^rnie]i.ery 

In-rUet attenfloii to his cxtenalre and comslete uaortment of 

Botanical Bozei, 
Sandwich Boxes, Coal Hods, 
Sardine Openers, Stomach Warmers, 
Sugar Nippers, Ivory Key Labels, Larding Pins, 
Bird Cage Uooks, Patent Corkscrews, Crumb Trays, 
Bronzed Tea Kettles, French Candlesticks, Wine Coolers, 
Bronzed Tea Bells, Land's Leyer Corkscrews, Steel Snuffers, 
iTory Cheese Scoops, Plated Dessert Kniyes, Copper Coal Scoops, 
Egg Spoons, Coal Tongs, French Feather Dusters* 

French Folding Fenders, French Hearth Brushes, 

Ivory Carrers and Forks, French Foot Warmers, 

French Cooking Utensils, English Fish Kettles, 

£Dg. Enamelled Ware, Crimping Machines, 

Bnglish Steel Fire Sets, Plated Knife Bests. 

Salad Forks and Spoons, 
iTory and Pearl Nut Picks, 
Fine Sheffield Table Cutlery, 
Horse Foot Picks and Hammers, 
Elegant Tea Trays, English Lanterns, 
French Parlor Bellows, Planished Dish CoT«rs, 
French Coffee Filters, Cash and Deed Boxes, 
English Coal Vases, Lunch Boxes, Ham Kettles, 
Hearing Horns, Bird Skewers, Steel Nutcracks, 
Plated Nut Cracks, Saw Knives, Salamanders, 

Champagne Nippers, Patent Corkscrews, 
French Whisks, Wine Strainers, 
Lamp Scissors, Puffing Irons, 
Stag Carvers and Forks, 
French Clothes Brushes, 
Baglish Night Lamps, English Plate Brushes, 

French Tooth Picks, Scotch Napkin Rings, 

Effg Irons, Cap Irons, Transplanting Trowels, 

English Melon Moulds, English Wax Tapers, 

English Jelly Moulds, Porcelain Finger Plates, 

Piping Irons, Toast Forks, White Metal Candlesticks, 

Telescope Hearth Brushes, French Table Mats, English Coffee Pots, 
French Meat Safes, Dressing Oases, London Mats, Paste Jaggers, 
Evaporating Bowls, Enamelled I^serre Kettles, Salt Spoons, 
Carved Bread Plates, Carved Butter Plates, Salad Washers, 
Carved Handle Bread Knives, English Cake Boxes, 
Enaml'd Saucepans and Stewpans, Steel Snuffersi 
Carpet Stretchers, Fancy Paste Cutters, 
Mushroom Irons, Flounce Irons, 
English Hammers. 

With an experience of nine years in the Hardware line, and twenty-four years in his 
present businens (of whtoh his patrons derive the benefit), with constantly increasing facili- 
ties for importing his Foreign Goods from the makers direct, and purchasing Domestic 
Goods from manufacturers only, employing none hut flrst-class workmen, polite and atten- 
tive salesmen, and the prompt delivery of goods by his own wagon, he is enabled to furnish 

The situation is central, a few doors from Washington street, and a few rods only from 
the Metropolitan Railroad Office, where all the horse cars stop. 

STORES, 12, 16 and 18 Bromfield Street, BOSTON. 

X:8tal>li0lied. lS4rS. - - - Oataloffues Free. 



CUSHMAN 9c BROOKS, 

Kos. 37 & 33 Temple Place, Boston, 

Htnnfkdarwfi Inpsrtm inil DMl«n In 

LA.DIES' 
FURNISHING GOODS. 



OBAND BZPOSITION. 

COMPRISING AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT 
Finest Quality Hoeier;, QloTes and TTnderolothing ; 
Bed Laces, Smbroideries, White Goods ; Bich Rib- 
bons, Paris Flowers ; Engliah and French Straw 
Hats, Bonnets; Bonnet Frames, Buohes, 
Veils, Nets; Veil Ooods, Drapes, and eH 
Millinery Article H ; Beal French Cor- 
sets ; Panniers and all articles io 
this line ; Eid Gloves, Driving 
Gloves, Gauntlets. 

Toikt Articles^ Dressing Combs, 

Hair Brushes, NaU and Teeth Brushes ; Dreaa Trim- 
mings, latest styles Fassamenterie Fringes, Oimpa, 
Bndds, Buttons, etc. ; Undsriinen, If^bt 
Dresses, Chemises; Walking Bkirts, Train 
SlEirts, Corset Covers, Drawers; Dress- 
ing Sacks, Pillow Shams, sheet 
Shams and Gentlemen's Dress 
Shirts, Nightshirts; Draw- 
ers and Shirt Fronts. 



CnSHMAN & BROOKS, 



CUISINE, 



81 



into boiling milk ; continue to stir it for twenty minutes, adding 
"t-wo ounces of loaf-sugar. Put it into a basin, and while cooling, 
stir in an ounce of butter, and when cold, add three well-beaten 
eggs. Pour it into a buttered dish, and bake for an hour. Serve 
i?vltliwine sauce. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 
Mix two ounces of West India arrowroot into a smooth paste ; 
boil a pint of milk with a small stick of cinnamon and two 
ounces of sugar; strain it, and pour it hot over the arrowroot, 
stirring it till it is perfectly blended and cool ; then add three 
well-beaten eggs ; pour it into a buttered dish, and bake inmie- 
dlately for three-quarters of an hour. Sift sugar over it, and 
serve with costard or preserved Aruit. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 
Bon in a quart of milk the rind of half a lemon, a stick of cin- 
namon, and four ounces of sugar, for a quarter of an hour. Strain 
tlie milk, and set it again^ on the fire, adding four ounces of ver- 
micelli; stir it, and let it boil twenty minutes ; then pour It out, 
and stir in two ounces of butter and two tablespoonfUls of cream. 
Beat up the yolks of six, the whites of three eggs, and mix 
quickly ; pour immediately into a buttered dish ; bake in a slow 
oven three-quarters of an hour, sifb sugar over it, and serve hot 
Tvith any good pudding sauce. Flavored with Preston & Merrill's 
extract of vanilla, rose, almond, etc. 

Maoaroni Pudding. 
Simmer three ounces of good Naples macaroni in a pint of 
milk, with a drachm of salt, for twenty minutes, till tender, but 
not broken ; turn it out to cool ; stir in two ounces of pounded 
sugar, one ounce of butter, and three eggs well-beaten. Butter 
a mould, pour it in, bake for three quarters of an hour ; turn out, 
and serve with wine sauce. 

Turkish Pudding, 
Half pound bread-crumbs, half pound figs chopped fine, six 
ounces moist sugar, six ounces suet, two eggs, one cupfUl milk, 
one teaspoonltil brandy, half nutmeg grated, boil four hours, and 
serve with wine sauce. 

Boiled Apple Pudding, 
Time, two hours. Three eggs ; one pint and a half of milk ; 
one pint of flour ; five or six large apples ; a little salt. 

Make a batter with three eggs well beaten, and a pint and a 
6 



82 



CUISINE. 



half of milk, with nearly or quite a pint of flour ; beat it until 
light and smooth. Pare, quarter and core five or six large tart 
or sour apples, and stir them into the batter witha little salt ; tie 
it up in a pudding-cloth, or buttered mould, and boU it. When 
done, turn it out on a dish and serve with sugar, butter and nut- 
meg sauce. 

The batter or crust of apple pudding, apple dumplings, pot pies, 
etc., is made delightfully light, and much more digestible, by the 
addition of a little of Preston & MerrUl's in&llible yeast powder 
to the batter when it is made, in which case fewer eggs are re- 
quired. 

Tn making the crust of pot pies, apple dumplings, etc., use 

Preston & MerrUl's Infallible Yeast Powder, it will make it light 

and digestible. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

Half a pound of grated apples ; half a pound of butter ; half a 
pound of sugar; yolks of six eggs; whites of three; Juice of half 
a lemon ; peel of one ; a little puff paste. 

Plain Bice Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Three eggs ; one quart of milk ; a little salt ; 
a wineglass of rice; two tablespoonflils of sugar; one of butter; 
half a nutmeg. 

Beat three eggs light and stir them into a quart of milk, with 
a little salt, and a wineglass of rice well washed ; put to it two 
tablespoonfUls of sugar, half a nutmeg, grated, and a tablespoon- 
fUl of butter. Bake one hour in a quick oven. 

Baked Sago Pudding. 

Time, one hoar. One quart of milk; four tables poonfhls of 
sago ; peel of one lemon ; five eggs ; two ounces of butter : two 
ounces and a half of sugar ; puff paste. Boil in a quart of new 
milk the peel of a large lemon, cut as thin as possible, then strain 
it through muslin, and stir in the sugar and sago. Set it over 
a slow fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Then put it 
into a basin to cool. Add the butter and the eggs well beaten. 
Put it into a pie-dish, with some rich puff paste round the edge, 
and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. 

Potato Pudding, 

Boil a pound of good potatoes, peel, and with a fork beat them 
into flour, without pressure, mixing with them three ounces of 
butter, four ounces of powdered sugar, half a saltspoon of salt, 
and a whole saltspoon of grated lemon-peel. When cool, add 



CUISINE, 



83 



five or six well-beaten eggs. Pour It Into a buttered mould or 
dish ; bake it for three-quarters of an hoar ; turn it out on a hot 
dish and serve with sugar sifted over it, and jam round the dish. 

You can use Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon, instead of 
the grated lemon-peel, in this and the next. 

Apple Pudding, 

Butter a dish and cover the bottom with bread-crumbs ; over 
this slice a layer of apples with a little grated lemon-peel and a 
tablespoonfhl of sugar ; then crumbs and apples alternately, til^ 
the dish be filled, finishing with a thick layer of crumbs ; pour 
over this four well-beaten eggs ; beat up* with half a pint of 
cream; bake immediately for three-qjuarters of an hour; turn 
out upon a hot dish ; sift over the pudding fine sugar, and serve 
it with a good sweet sauce. 

A Oastard Apple Pudding. 

Pare and quarter six good-sized apples ; put them into a stew- 
pan with the rind of half a lemon, two tablespoonftds of water 
and four ounces of sugar ; let them simmer, and stir continually 
till the whole be reduced to jam ; then pour into a bowl, take 
out the lemon-peel, and stir in three ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonfUl of lemon-juice, and when cool add the yolks of five 
eggs. Bake in a buttered mould for half an hour, turn it out, 
brush it over quickly with white of egg, cover thickly with fine- 
sifted sugar, and return to the oven five ndnutes for the icing to 
harden. Serve hot or cold. 

Chartreuse of Apples, 

Boil half a pound of Carolina rice in a quart of milk, with four 
ounces of sugar, till tender. Pare seven good-sized apples, and 
take out the cores without opening them through. Put into 
each apple a spoonftil of raspberry jam, and fill up wilh cream. 
Arrange them in a deep dish, and pour the rice round, but not 
over them, making the whole smooth*, cover the top with beaten 
white of egg, and sift sugar entirely over it. Bake for forty 
minutes. This is a good and wholesome pudding. 

Bipe Gooseberry Pudding. 

Pill a jar nearly with ripe gooseberries, and put the jar into a 
pan of boiling water over the fire, stewing them till the juice 
flows out. Pour off" a pint of the juice, and stir into it four 
ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and four ounces of 
Naples' biscuits bruised. Beat separately the yolks and whites 
of three eggs, and strain; stir in when the juice is cold, the 



84 



CUISINE, 



yolks first, then the whites, and bake for half an hour. Serve 
hot or cold, with sugar sifted over. 

Baspherry Pudding, 

Pat into a tart-dish a pint and a half of fresh raspberries, or 
raspberries and red currants mixed, and stir in ten ounces of 
sugar. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four very 
well, and mix with half a pint of good milk or cream, and two 
ounces of sifted sugar. Whisk up to a froth, and pour over the 
fruit the moment before you put it into the oven. Bake half 
an hour, and serve only when cold, with sifted sugar over it 

Lemon Pudding, 

Take off the thin rind of two small lemons, and boil it till 
soft in a pint and a half of cream or new milk. Pound the peel 
with four ounces of butter to a paste, and pour the milk over 
four ounces of Naples biscuit. Stir both together, and when 
cool add four ounces of sifted sugar, the juice of one lemon, and 
the yolks of six eggs, well beat. Sometimes for ornament, shav- 
ings of candied citron are stewed over the top, but many like the 
pudding better without it. Bake in a bnck oven three-quarters 
of an hour, and serve hot or cold. 

This and the preceding are most delicate puddings. 

Almond Puddings, 

Beat six ounces of almonds in a mortar, with three ounces of 
butter, four ounces of sugar, and a leaspoonftil of grated lemon- 
peel; then mix the paste into two tablespoonfals of creamy beat 
up with the yolks of six eggs. Butter small cups , pour in the 
mixture ; bake for half an hour ; turn out and serve with custard 

or whipped cream. 

Cocoonut Pudding, 

Grate the whole of a good-sized cocoa-nut. Beat into four 
ounces of butter the same quantity of sifted sugar \ add the 
cocoa-nut, still beating all quite smooth. Then stir in a pint of 
cream. Beat six eggs very well, and add ; pour it into a b*Jt- 
tered dish, and bake immediately for three-quarters of an hour. 
Sift sugar over it, and serve hot or cold. 

Chocolate Pudding, 

Scrape very fine two ounces of prepared chocolate, and add to 
it half a teaspoonfUl of powdered cinnamon, or Preston & Mer- 
rill's extract of vanilla. Put it into a chocolate-pan, pouring 
over it a quart of new milk, stirring it till it boils, and adding 
by degrees four ounces of sugar, milling the chocolate till it is 






1 



I 



J 



cuismE, 



85 



smooth and light. Then pour it out to cool Beat eight eggs 
to a flroth : mix them with the chocolate ; ponr Into a battered 
dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve it cold, with 
silted sugar over it. 

Apple Charlotte Busse, 

Stew apples with an equal quantity of sugar and a little grated 
lemon into a Jam. Then butter a baking-dish or plain mould ; 
cut very thin slices of bread ; dip them into clariiied butter, and 
line the dish closely and neatly. Then fill the dish with the 
jam, and cover with slices of bread, dipped as before in butter. 
Cover with a plate or lid, and place a weight upon it to keep 
the bread close upon the apples, and bake in a brisk oven for an 
hour. Turn it out, sift sugar over it, and serve it hot. 

Golden Pudding, 

Melt six ounces of butter, and mix with the same weight of 
finely-sifted sugar. Pound in a mortar to a paste three ounces 
of candied orange, and stir into the butter and sugar. Beat up 
well the yolks of eight eggs, and add ; pour the whole into a 
buttered dish v^th the edge lined with puff paste, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot or cold. 

Preston & Merrill are the original inventors of Cooking Ex- 
tracts for flavoring sauces, puddings, etc. 

Transparent Pudding. 

Beat eight eggs very well ; put them into a stewpan with half 
a pound of fine-powdered sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, 
the grated outer rind of one lemon, and the juice of three. Stir 
it over the fire till it thickens, then pour it into a basin to cool. 
Line the edge of a buttered pudding-dish with thin pufi'-paste, 
pour in the pudding, and bake for three-quarters of an hour In a 
moderate oven. It is a clear, light pudding, very good, cold or 
hot. 

Sponge'Cake Pudding. 

Take three or four stale sponge biscuits, or as much stale 
sponge cake, and lay at the bottom of a well-buttered dish. 
Beat well six eggs, and stir into them by degrees a pint and a 
half of boiling milk, three ounces of sugar, and a dessert- 
spoonfVil of grated lemon-peel ; then add a tablespoonflil of brandy, 
pour the mixture over the cake, and let the padding stand an 
hour. Then pour a little clarified butter over the top, cover it 
with sifted sugar, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Preston 
& Merrill's extract of lemon is better than the grated peeL 



86 CUISINE. 



Economist's Pudding, 

This well-known pudding is merely the remains of a cold 

boiled plum pudding. Cut the pudding in slices about half an 

inch thick, and fill a buttered dish about three parts. Make a 

custard of two eggs, half a pint of milk, and two ounces of 

sugar ; beat it well, pour it over the pudding, and let it stand 

an hour before you put It in the oven. Bake it three-quarters 

of an hour, and serve it hot, with sifted sugar over, and any 

good sauce. 

Cherry Pudding. 

Line the edge of a battered dish with puff-paste, and cover 
the bottom with preserved or dried cherries, without the 
stones ; strew over them two teaspoonftils of sifted sugar and 
one of grated lemon-rind ; then thin slices of bread, buttered, 
and alternately layers of fhiit and bread till the dish is nearly 
flill, finishing with the bread with sifted sugar thick over it. 
Beat seven eggs well; add a tablespoonftil of cream, and two 
tablespoonftds of brandy. Pour all over, and bake immediately 
for an hour. Serve hot. 

Baked Indian Pudding, 

Boil a quart of milk and stir into it gradually eight tablespoon- 
fhls of good Indian flour, four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and half a nutmeg, grated; stir it over the fire for a 
quarter of an hour, then turn it out to cool. Beat eight eggs 
very well, and stir into the batter when cold. Butter your cups, 
and fill them three parts ; bake half an hour, and turn out. Half 
the quantity of batter would be sufficient for a small party. 
These puddings are eaten with butter and molasses. We would 
recommend port or claret sauce to be served with them. 

A Good Christmas Plum Pudding, 
With one pound of clean, dry currants and half a pound of 
good rasins stoned, mix one pound of bread-crumbs, half a 
pound of fine flour, and one pound and a half of finely-shred 
suet ; add a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a grated nutmeg, 
a drachm of cinnamon, two cloves, and half a dozen almonds, 
pounded, and an ounce each of candied orange and lemon sliced 
thin ; mix all the materials thoroughly together in a bowl, with 
a glass of brandy and one of sherry ; then beat very well six 
eggs, and slowly stir in till all be well blended ; cover the bowl, 
and let the mixture stand for twelve hours ; then pour it into a 
pudding-cloth and tie it, not very tight; put it into boiling 



CUISINE, 



87 



water and keep up the boiling for six hours. Serve with sagar 
sifted over, and wine or pnnch sauce. 

Brandy is usually sent in with a Christmas pudding to be 
poured over the whole pudding, or over each slice, then lighted 
and served in flames. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Boil three-quarters of a pint of cream, as above, and mix one- 
quarter of a pint, cold, with the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and 
a glass of brandy. Four the boiling cream over this, and stir 
as you pour it till it becomes a custard. Butter a plain mouldy 
and Hne it with dried cherries and slices of dried apricots or 
peaches, tasteftiUy arranged in a pattern. Put into the mould 
lightly four ounces of sponge-biscuits and two ounces of tnaca- 
roons, mixed ; strew an ounce of powdered sugar amongst them ; 
then flll up the mould with the custard perfectly cold. Tie.up 
and steam for an hour. Let it stand a few minutes ; then turn 
out careftilly and serve with wine sauce. 

A Charlotte Busse. 

Time to se^ six minutes. Some lady Angers ; three quarters 
of a pint of good cream ; rather more than half an ounce of isin- 
glass ; two dessertspoonflils of curacoa, or Preston & Merrill's 
extract vanilla ; one ounce of loaf sugar ; a large slice of sponge- 
cake; one egQ, 

Take as many lady flngers as will cover the inside of a mould ; 
lightly moisten the edges with the beaten white of an egg, and 
place them upright all round the sides of the mould, slightly over 
each other, or sufficiently close to prevent the cream from escap- 
ing. Arrange them at the bottom of the mould in a star, or 
rosette, taking care that it is well covered, and then set it in the 
oven for five or six minutes to dry. Whisk the cream with the 
curacoa, or wine, the isinglass dissolved, and loaf sugar to taste. 
When sufficiently firm, flll the inside of the Charlotte Russe, and 
place over it a slice of sponge-cake, or of bread cut the same 
shape and size. Cover it with the cream, and ornament it with 
sweatmeets or colored sugar. Place it in ice till set. 

Orange Sponge. 

One ounce of isinglass; one pint of water; juice of six or seven 
oranges ; juice of one lemon, or Preston & Merrill's extracts of 
lemon or orange to suit the taste ; sugar to taste ; whites of three 
eggs. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of boiling water, strain 



88 



CUISINE. 



it and let It stand till nearly cold ; then mix with it the juice of 
six or seven oranges, and the juice of one lemon ; add the whites 
of eggs and sugar to taste, and whisk the whole together until it 
looks white and like a sponge. Put it into a mould, and torn it 
out the next day. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Time, a quarter of an hour. Two ounces of gelatine ; one pint 
and a half of water; Juice of four lemons ; peel of two, or a des- 
sertspoonful of Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon ; whites of 
three eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. 

Pour over two ounces of gelatine a pint of cold water ; let it 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, then add half a pint of boiling 
water. If not sufficiently dissolved, set the stewpan over the fire 
until it be so. Add to this three-quarters of a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the juice of four lemons. When the gelatine is 
cold (but before it begins to get firm), add the whites of three 
eggs which have been well beaten. Whisk the whole for a quar- 
ter of an hour, or until the mixture is quite white and begins to 
thicken; then put it into a mould which has been previously 
soaked in cold water. Set it in a cold place until firm, then torn 
it careftilly out, and garnish it with dried firuit or Preston & Mer- 
rill's extracts for flavoring. 

FUDDINa- SAUCES. 
Sauces for puddings are easily flavored with Preston & Mer- 
rill's Pure Cooking Extracts of Lemon, Vanilla, Peach, Nutmeg, 
etc. 

Sweetened Melted BuUer. 
To a quarter of a pint of good melted butter add an ounce and 
a half of moist sugar and a quarter of a nutmeg grated ; stir very 
well, and serve hot. This is the plainest sauce for the nursery. 

Wine Sauce. 

To a quarter of a pint of melted butter add an ounce and a 
half of pounded sugar, half a teaspoonfUl of grated lemon, and 
a glass of sherry ; stir it all over the fire together for two or three 
minutes, and serve immediately. Some families prefer to use 
home-made wines ; of these, raisin or currant wines are the most 
suitable. 

Brandy Sauce. 

In a quarter of a pint of water boil for flfbeen minutes the thin 
rind of a small lemon and two ounces of sugar ; strain the liquor 



134. 136 and 138 Summer Street, 1 



SPECIALTY FOR DYSPEPSIA. 



THIS is not a new preparation, to be tried and found wanting:. It has been 
prescribed daily for many years, in the practice of an eminent physician, 
with unparalleled success. It is i%' OT expected or intended to cure all the dis- 
eases to which the human family is subject, but 

IS WARRANTED TO CURB DYSPEPSIA 

in Its most obstinate form, relief being always obtained from the first ute, and 
a permanent cure effected when properly continued. 



Some of the S3niiptoms of Dyspepsia 

Are Loss of Appetite, Wind and Rising of Food, Dryness of the Mouth, Heart- 
burn, Distention of the Stomach and Bowels, Costlvenesi*, Headache, Dizziness, 
Sleeplessness, and I'OW Spirits. Unless checked, it surely affects the mind as 
well as body, and unfits one for the duties of life in a short time. These are all 
removed by the use of WHITE'S SPECIALTY FOR DYSPEPSIA. 



TKSXIJVIONIALS. 

Boston, Sept. 1, 1871. 
Dr. H. O. White. Dear Sir, — Regarding your "Specialty for Dyspepsia," 
I would say I have used it with the best results. I have been a sufferer for five 
years, my food distressing me. but now can parUike heartily without inconven- 
iencu. I was affected with dizziness so much iis to fall in the street; that trouble 
is also removed. I have tried many prepartions without relief; but I recom- 
meud your remedy as one deserving the confidence of all. 

Yours truly, C. A. HOLT, 

Real Estate Broker, 191 Friend Street, Boston. 
Residence, Union Street, Bast Somerviile, Mass. 

Cambridqeport, Mars., March, 1871. 
Mr. H. G-. White. Dear Sir, — I take pleasure in informing you of the cure 
eflected in my mother's case by your " Specialty for Dyspepsiti.'' Before using 
it che had buen Tor a long time very low, and for five weeks was unable to par> 
take of anything more hearty than a spoonful of broth without suffering. After 
taking one bottle, she was able to eat meat and other food without Inconvenience. 
She has used three bottles, and considers herself cured. 

Yours respectfully, HENRY T. WELTOH, Riverside Market. 



HOPKINTON, Mass., May, 1871. 

Mr. H. G-. White. Dear Sir, — The dozen of *' Specialty for Dyspepsia" 

purchased bv me is sold. I know of two cases of chronic Dyspepsia which had 

baf9ed the skill of several physicians in this vicinity. By the use of your rem* 

edy, I consider them permanently cured. Please send me another lot and oblige, 

Yours, W. A. THOMSON, Druggist, Hopkinton, Mass. 



Prepared only by H. G. WHITE, 107 Washington Street, 

FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS. PRICE, $1,00 PER BOTTLE. 



CUISINE, 



89 



into half a pint of melted butter, and stir into it, over the fire, a 
glass or a glass and a half of brandy, and serve immediately. 

Funch Sauce. 

Rub oflf the outer rind of a lemon on two ounces of loaf sugar, 
and strain the juice of the lemon over the sugar; pour over this 
a glass of brandy and a glass of sherry, and, when well mixed, 
stir the whole over the fire into a quarter of a pint of good melted 
butter, and serve immediately. Use Preston & Merrill's extract 
of lemon when the Aruit is not used. 

Plum Pudding Sauce. 

Boil in a quarter of a pint of water for twenty minutes the 
thin rind of half a lemon, and a quarter of a Seville orange as 
thin as possible, with two ounces of sugar ; strain the liquor 
into a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter, and stir it over 
the fire, adding half a glass each of brandy, rum, and sherry, 
and a tablespoonfiil of curacoa may be added or not ; simmer the 
whole, mixing it well for five minutes ; then serve immediately. 

Instead of the peel, the Preston & Merrill's extract of orange 

and lemon may be used. 

Port Wine Sauce. 

Boil for thirty minutes in a quarter of a pint of water six 
cloves and two ounces of sugar; then add two glasses of port 
wine, and simmer five minutes, and strain the liquor into a quar- 
ter of a pint of very rich melted butter; stir all for five minutes 
over the fire ; then serve immediately. 

Claret Sauce. 

Beat np four eggs to froth, and mix by degrees with half a 
pint of claret or any light wine ; set it over the flre, add a tea- 
spoonfUl of grated lemon-peel, or a few drops of Preston & Mer- 
rill's extract of lemon, half as much pounded cinnamon, and three 
ounces of ^ugar ; then continue to mill or whisk the sauce over 
the flre till the whole is in a froth, and quite hot, though not 
boiling. Pour it immediately over the pudding. 

Baspherry Sauce. 

Put into a jar a pint of fresh raspberries with half a pint of 
water, and set it Into a pan of boiling water, or a moderate oven, 
for half an hour ; then strain off the liquor, and put it into a 
saucepan with two ounces of sugar, two glasses of sherry, and a 
tablespoonM of arrowroot, first blended in a spoonful. 

DESSERT DISHES, CAKES, BISCUITS. 
In addition to the usual fresh fruits, ices, biscuits, etc., usu- 



90 



CUISINE, 



ally served at dessert, we add some elegant confections, sev- 
eral of which may be used also as entremetSf as may be seen in 

the classified list. 

Compote of Apples, 

Compotes of ftnits of all kinds are used either for entremets, 
garnished with biscuits or pastry, or for dessert. They are usu- 
ally served in deep glass dishes, known in the dessert services 
as compotiers. Pare a pound of golden pippins or any good 
apples, and core without breaking them ; make a syrup of ten 
ounces of loaf sugar, with half a pint of water ; let it boil ten 
minutes to thicken; put in the apples, and simmer them for 
twenty minutes, or till soft without being broken ; then turn it 
out into the compotier to grow cold, with the syrup round. 

Compote of Pears. 

Make a syrup of ten ounces of sugar, half a pint of water, and 
two cloves ; when boiled thick, take out the cloves, and add a 
glass of port wine ; put one pound of good baking pears on the 
Are for a few minutes in boiling water till you can draw off the 
skin ; core them, and put into the syrup ; boil gently for twenty 
minutes, or, if the pears be large, half an hour, till they are ten- 
der; then turn out with the syrup. 

Stewed Peaches. 

Make a syrup of six ounces of sugar to half a pint of water, 
adding a tablespoonftil of lemon-juice and the kernels of three 
peaches, blanched and split; draw the skin from six or seven 
peaches, and put them whole into the syrup; stew gently for 
twenty minutes ; then arrange them on a dessert-dish; turn the 
syrup and kernels out upon them, and leave to cool. 

Stewed Apples for Dessert. 

The apples should not be pared : the French apples answer 
very well for stewing. Put one pound of apples into a pan with 
a quart of water and seven ounces of sugar, and stew very 
gently at the side of the fire for two hours and a half, unless the 
apples be large, when they will require another half hour ; then 
take out, and pour the syrup over to serve cold. Sugars, syrups, 
jellies, etc., may be colored with Preston & Merrill's extract of 
cochineal. 

Stewed Pears, 

Pare and divide two pounds of large baking pears, and put in 
an enamelled preserving-pan with six cloves, the rind of half a 
lemon, a pound and a half of sugar, and a quarter of a pint of 



CUISINE, 



91 



water ; put the parings in to improve the syrap, but take them 
out in an honr ; cover the pan, and let it boil gently five or six 
hours, according to the size of the pears ; an hour before they 
are taken off add a glass of port wine : turn out to cool. 

These pears make a pretty dessert dish ; or, arranged in a star 
on a dish with whipped cream piled in the centre, can be used for 
an entremeU 

Strawberry and Currant Salad, 

A pretty dessert dish may be made of mixed early Aruits, 
strawberries, white or red currants, gooseberries, and cherries, 
all carefully picked, placed in alternate layers stewed with 
sugar, and piled up with taste. Either simple cream, or wine 
or brandy cream, should be poured over the salad. 

Orange Salad. 

Remove the peel and inner white skin from the oranges ; cut 
them up across in horizontal slices ; lay them on a dish covered 
with powdered sugar, and pour over them sherry, Madeira, or 
brandy. 

Sugared Almonds, 

Kake a syrup of one pint of water to a pound of sugar, and 
when boiling, stir in blanched Jordan almonds for ten minutes ; 
take them out, and dry, and reduce the syrup one half; then dip 
the almonds in again for a minute, and with the thick syrup 
adhering to them, dry them on an inverted sieve in a warm 
place, and store in a tin box. 

Light, wholesome, and toothsome tea biscuit can be produced 
In a few minutes by the usfe of Preston & Merrill's yeast powder. 
Shoeet Cakes and Biscuits for Dessert. 

Of cakes and biscuits composed chiefly of sugar, flour, butter, 
and eggs, the varieties are innumerable, and though these rich 
dainties are banished from the diet of the dyspeptic or the 
abstemious, as unwholesome and unnecessary, they may be 
usually eaten and enjoyed with perfect safety, when careftilly 
prepared, and taken in moderation, especially the lighter biscuits 
of sugar and egg. No one but a school-boy would eat a whole 
slice of rich plum cake; and what cannot a school- boy digest? 

To Insure cakes being light, you must flrst have all the mate- 
rials treah, good, and perfectly dry ; the sugar pounded to fine 
powder; the peels sliced thin, or grated fine; next the eggs 
must be separated, whites and yolks, and beat or whisked prop- 
erly to firoth ; and lastly, the oven heated to the right tempera- 



92 



CUISINE. 



tnre, which mast be kept up till the baking is done. Usnally, it 

is only the small sugar biscuits that require a slow oven ; but in 

no case should the cakes be moved, or indeed the oven opened 

during the process of baking; and in large cakes a paper should 

always be laid over the top, to prevent scorching. A hoop, or 

case of paper, should always, If possible, be preferred to a tin, 

for baking in. 

To Beat Eggs for Cake9, 

Have two cups ready and break each separate egg over one of 
the cups, dividing the yolks ftom the white by passing it from 
one half of the shell to another, allowing the white to fall into 
the first cup and patting the yolk into the second. Remove with 
a fork any speck In the eggy and then transfer to two shallow 
bowls for beating. When you have thus broken the eggs you 
require, beat the yolks till they are light and firothy with a fork 
lightly swept through the egg; but whisk the whites into a solid 
froth till no liquor appears at the bottom of the bowl. You may 
then sel^ them aside in a cool place for use. 

To Blanch Mmonds. 

Put the almonds in a pan of cold water over the fire, and let 
them remain until the water is about to simmer : do not allow it 
to boil. Then take them out and draw the skins off, throwing 
the almonds into a basin of cold water as you peel them to pre- 
serve the color, and dry them with a soft napkin. Almonds 
must always be blanched before pounding. 

To Ice or Frost a Cake. 

When the icing is made as directed, place the cake on the 
bottom of the tin in which it was baked. Then spread the 
icing on the sides with a piece of cardboard, about four inches 
long and nearly three wide. Then heap what you may think 
sufficient for the top in the centre of the cake, and with the card- 
board spread it evenly over. Set it in a warm place to dry and 
harden, after which ornament it as you please. If sugar orna- 
ments are put on, it must be done whilst it is moist or soft ; or 
if the icing is required colored, pink may be made with cochi- 
neal syrup, blue with indigo, yellow with saffron, green with 
spinach syrup, and brown with chocolate. 

Sugar, syrups, jellies, etc., may be colored with Preston & 
Merrill's extract of cochineal. ' 

Almond Icing for Bridecake. 

The whites of three eggs ; one pound of sweet almonds ; one 
pound of loaf sugar ; a little rosewater. 



CUISINE, 93 



Beat the whites of the eggs to a strong flroth, beat a poand of 
almonds very fine, with a little rosewater, mix the almonds with 
the eggs lightly together, and one pound of common white 
sugar, beaten very fine and put in by degrees. When the cake 
is sufficiently done, take it out, lay the icing on, and then put it 
back to brown. 

Sugar Icing for the Top, 

Two pounds of double-refined sugar j whites of five eggs; a 
iittle of Preston & Merriirs extract of lemon. 

Whisk the whites of the five eggs stiff enough to bear the 
weight of an egg, then with a spatula or wooden spoon, mix 
gradually with them two pounds of sugar which has been dried 
and sifted, work them together for a few minutes, and add a 
teaspoonM of strained lemon- juice. Spread it all over the cake 
covering the almond icing thickly and evenly. Dry It very 
slowly in a cool oven, or if it is put on as soon as the cake is 
taken from the oven, the icing will be hard by the time the cake 
is cold. 

Ornamental Frosting, 

Whites of eggs ; sugar and coloring. 

For this purpose, have syringes of different sizes, draw any 
one you may choose ftdl of the icing, and work it in any designs 
you may fancy. Wheels^ Grecian borders or flowers look well, 
or borders of heading. The cake must first T)e covered with a 
plain frosting, which may be white or colored pink, with Pres- 
ton & Merriirs extract of cochineal, blue with a little indigo, 
or brown with a little chocolate, finely grated, green with a 
little spinach juice. 

CAKE. 

Wedding Cake, 

FouB pounds of white, sifted fiour, very dry ; four pounds of 
butter, washed in cold water ; four pounds of clean picked cur- 
rants ; one pound of almonds, bruised, but not to paste, with 
two spoonftils of orange flower water ; half a pound of candied 
orange, half a pound of candied citron, half a pound of candied 
lemon, — all in thin slices ; a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, 
a quarter of aji ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, — 
all pounded fine; a nutmeg grated; twenty eggs beat up to 
firoth, whites and yolks separately ; half a pint of brandy ; half 
a pint of sherry. 

Begin by beating the butter to cream in a large bowl ; then 



L 



94 



CUISINE. 



by degrees throw in the sugar, and beat continually for a quar- 
ter of an hour till It be well mixed; next add the frothed 
whites of eggy and, after beating some time, the yolks ; then add 
the spices, and soon after, and by slow degrees, the flour, till 
all be thoroughly mingled ; then the currants and peels, the 
brandy and wine, and keep up the beating till the whole is thor- 
oughly incorporated, and all is leady for the baking. The baking 
hoop must be lined with double-buttered paper; the batter 
poured in, which must not fill more than three parts of the 
lioop, that there may be space for it to rise. Cover the top with 
paper. Shut it into a quick oven and bake five hours. Soon 
after it is taken out put on the almond icing, and when dried 
add the sugar icing, which should be three-quarters of an inch 
thick. Ornament it to taste. 

This cake will keep perfectly good twelve months. 

Spice cake can be flavored with Preston & Merrill's extract of 
cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves. 

Found Cake. 

Time, one hour. One pound and a half of flour ; one pound 
of butter; one pound of white sugar; ten eggs; a wineglassfUl 
of brandy ; half a nutmeg ; a teaspoonfUl of Preston & Mer- 
rill's extract vanilla, or lemon. 

Beat the butter and pounded sugar to a cream, whisk the 
eggs to a high froth, then put all the ingredients together, and 
beat until light and creamy. Put it into a tin lined with but- 
tered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. When 
done, turn it gently out, reverse the tin, and set the cake on 
the bottom until cold ; let the paper remain until the cake is to 
be cut. 

Almond Cake, 

Time, one hour. Beat the yolks and whites of twelve eggs 
to froth, and pound to paste half a pound of sweet almonds, 
and one ounce of bitter almonds, with a tablespoonfUl of rose 
or orange-flower water ; beat the almonds thoroughly up with 
the solid froth of the whites of the eggs, then add the yolks, 
and beat in one pound of finely-sifted sugar, and the grated 
rind of two lemons ; next, three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, 
and gradually one pound of clarified butter, warm, but not hot ; 
beat the batter very much till perfectly well-mixed ; then pour 
into a buttered mould which wUl leave space for the cake to 



CUISINE, 



95 



rise. Bake it for two hours; but when half done, put a but- 
tered paper over the top, to prevent the cake from being 
scorched. 
Preston & Merrill's extract of almond, may be used instead 

of the bitter almond. 

Plain Cake, 

Time one hoar, or one hour and a half. 

One pound of flour : a quarter of a pound of beef dripping ; a 
quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; two eggs, two spoonfUls of 
yeast ; two ounces of caraway seeds. 

Bub the flour, beef dripping, and moist sugar well together ; 
beat up the eggs ; add the yeast and caraway seeds, and beat up 
all well together. Bake in a tin. 

Two teaspoonfUls of Preston & Merriirs yeast powder may 
be used instead of the yeast, and it can be baked at once. 

Plain Short Bread. . 

Time, twenty-flve or thirty minutes for three cakes. 

One pound of flour ; half a pound of batter ; three ounces of 
brown sugar. 

Mix these ingredients, and roll them out thick, and bake. 

Plain Plum Cake, 

Time, two hours and a half. Two pounds of flour; three 
spoonfuls of yeast ; four eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar ; one glass of sweet wine ; one teaspoonfUl of ginger ; peel 
of one lemon; one pound of currants, or a few caraways. 

Eub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour ; 
mix it with three spoonftils of yeast — not bitter — to a paste, 
and let it raise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and 
whites of four eggs beaten separately, one pound of sugar, some 
milk to make it a proper thickness, a glass of sweet wine, peel 
of a lemon grated, and a teaspoonftd of ginger. Add at the last, 
a poand of corrants washed and dried, or a few caraway seeds. 

Plum Cake. 

In all kinds of cake where yeast is directed, the same number 
of spoonfuls of Preston & Merrill's infallible yeast powder is a 
good substitute, with this advantage, that you need not wait for 
it to rise, but can put it into the oven as soon as it is mixed. 

Time, twolioars, no more. One pound of fi-esh butter; twelve 
eg^ : one quart of flour ; one pound of moist sugar ; half a 
pound of mixed spice ; three pounds of currants ; one pound of 
raisins ; half pound of almonds ; half a pound of candied peel. 



96 CUISINE, 



Beat the butter to a cream with your hand, and stir into it the 
yollcs of the twelve eggs, well-beaten with the sugar, then add 
the spice and the almonds chopped very fine. Stir in the flour; 
add the currants washed and dried, the raisins chopped up, and 
the candied peel cut into pieces. As each ingredient is added, 
the mixture must be beaten by the hand ; then butter a paper, 
place it round a tin, put it in the cake, and bake it for two hours, 
or more, if required. 

Bmall Flum Cakes. 

Time, half an hour. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; yolks of two eggs, white of one; a quarter of a pound 
of butter ; three spoonfhls of cream ; three-quarters of a pound 
of currants. 

Well rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of dried 
flour ; then beat up the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. 
Warm three tablespoonfVils of cream, and mix the flour and bat- 
ter with them. Wash and dry the currants ; stir them well in, 
and then make it into small cakes. Bake them on a tin in a hot 
oven, and when they are a nice color on both sides, open the 
oven door that they may well soak through for a short time. 

Sponge Cake, 

Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 

Five eggs ; half a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; the weight of two 
eggs and a half (in their shells) of flour ; one lemon. 

Take half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, break Ave eggs over it, 
and beat all together tor full half an hour with a steel fork. Pre- 
viously take the weight of two eggs and a half (in their shells) in 
flour. After you have beaten the eggs and sugar together for the 
time) specifled, grate into them the peel of a lemon, and add the 
juice, if approved. Stir the flour into this mixture and pour it 
into a tin. Put it Instantly into a cool oven. 

Flavor this cake with Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon and 

vanilla. 

Cocoa-nut Sponge Cakes. 

Time, half an hour. Six eggs ; half a pound of sugar ; a quar- 
ter of a pound of flour ; one teaspoonlUl of lemon essence ; one 
of salt ; half a nutmeg ; one cocoa-nut. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of sugar ; then 
add the flour, salt, essence of lemon and half a nutmeg grated. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them to the 
yolks, etc., and the white meat of the cocoa-nut grated. Line 







sqaare tin pans with buttered paper, and, having stirred the 
ingredients well together, pat the mixture in an inch deep in the 
pans. Bake them in a quick oven half an hour, cut it into squares, 
and serve it with or without icing. 

A Vanilla Sponge Cake, 

Simmer over the fire for a quarter of an hour a pound of loaf 
sagar, and half a pod of vanilla, chopped and inclosed in muslin, 
with half a pint of water. Pour out the syrup into a bowl ; stir 
it tUl cool ; then t&e out the vanilla. Beat up very well the 
yolks of six eggs and the whites of three to froth, add the whites 
first, then the yolks, to the syrup, beating it up the whole time ; 
then mix gradually with it six ounces of the flour, and immedi- 
ately pour into a buttered mould, and place In the oven. Bake 
for an hour. The syrup may be flavored with much less trouble, 
with Preston & Merrill's extract of vanilla. 

A Madeira Cake. 

Time, one hour. This cheap and useftil cake is made as be- 
low : Beat up the yolks of four eggs, and whisk the whites to 
solid froth ; then beat into the whites six ounces of sifted sugar, 
and when quite mixed, add the yolks, six ounces of flour, four 
ouDces of liquified butter, warm, but not hot, and the grated 
outer rind of one large lemon. Continually beat up as you add 
the Ingredients, and for ten minutes after all are mixed ; then 
pour into a h^ittered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. 

In all cases whore grated lemon peel is prescribed, Preston & 
Merrill's extract of lemon, which is the essential flavor of the 
lemon, may be used — and when the acid peel of the lemon is 
directed and is not readily to be procured, you can use Preston 
& Merrill's sugar of lemons, which is made from the acid of the 
A*uit, and when lemons are scarce is much cheaper. 

Citron Cakes. 

Time, fifteen or twenty minutes. Half a pound of butter ; six 
eggs ; half a pound of sugar ; ten ounces of flo^r ; one wineglass- 
fUl of brandy ; a quarter of a pound of citron. 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, take six new-laid eggs, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, and the yolks with half a pound 
of white powdered sugar, and rather more than half a pound of 
sifted flour. Beat these well together, add a glass of brandy, and 
a quarter of a pound of citron cut into thin slips. Bake it in 
small heart-shaped tins, or in any form you please, rubbing the 
tin over with melted butter, and bake in a quick oven. 
6 



98 



CUISINE. 



A Delicate Cake. 

Time, about one ho^. One pound of- sugar; one pound of 
flour ; seven ounces of ottter ; whites of eight eggs ; half a nut- 
meg grated; a little of !^mett*s lemon extract. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and stir into it a pound of pow- 
dered sugar and a pound of sifted flour; then add the whites of 
eight eggs, beaten to a A*oth, half a small nutmeg grated, and a 
little lemon extract. Beat all well together, and put it into a 
tin lined with buttered paper. Five or six ounces of pounded 
almonds may be added to this cake, according to your taste. 

To flavor Lady Cake or Bride's Cake, use Preston & Merrill's 
extract of peach or almond. 

Pork Cake. 
One pound of pork chopped flue ; one half a cup of boiling 
water poured over three cups of sugar ; two of milk ; two pounds 
of raisins or currants. 

Almond Cake. 
Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a f^oth, with one pound of 
flne white sugar ; beat the whites of nine eggs to a stiff ftoth, 
and stir them with the former mixture ; when the whole has been 
stirred briskly for ten minutes, add gradually one pound of 
sifted flour and one half a pound of almonds, blanched and flnely 
chopped, then three tablespoonfhls of thick cream; mix well and 
bake immediately ; frost the cake with preserved ^hite of eggs. 
Flavor with Preston & Merrill's extract of almond. 

Cream Cake. 
Three eggs; one cup of flour; one cup of white sugar; one 
tablespoonful of milk ; two of melted butter ; one teaspoonfbl of 
cream tartar; one half do. soda. Bake when cold; cut open; 
put in cream ; for which take two eggs, one -half a cup of white 
sugar, one pint of milk, one third of a cup of flour ; stir sugar, 
eggs and flour together, and the whole in the boiling milk. Boil 
five minutes; when cool, flavor with Preston & Merrill's 
extracts. 

Nut Cake, 
One cup of butter; two of sugar; five eggs; one half a tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in one cup of sweet milk ; one of 
cream tartar ; one pint of hickory-nut meats ; one pound .of 
raisins; one of flour. Three tablespoonflils of infallible yeast 
powder is better than the soda and cream tartar. 



CUISINE, 99 



Macaroons, 

Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Blanch eight ounces of fine 
almonds, and pound in a mortar to a smooth paste, with two 
tablespoonftils of rose or orange-fiower water; whisk- np the 
whites of eight eggs to a solid f^oth, and add to it one poand of 
finely-sifted sugar, then beat in by degrees the almond paste till 
thoroughly mixed. Haye ready confectioners' wafer paper, and 
drop the mixture upon it in small rounds. Bake in a moderate 
oven till lightly colored. 

Chocolate Cakes, 

One pound of fiour ; one pound of sugar ; one pound of but- 
ter ; eight eggs ; two tablespoonftils of brandy; a pinch of salt ; 
chocolate glazing. 

Mix the above ingredients well together with a wooden spoon, 
putting the butter (melted before the fire) in last. Spread a 
baking sheet with butter, put over it the mixture half an inch 
thick, and bake it. Cut the cake into oblong pieces, and glaze 
them thickly with chocolate. 

Bice Spice Cakes. 

Time, ten or twelve minutes. A pound and a half of flonr ; 
three quarters of a pound of sugar ; three quarters of a pound of 
sugar; three quarters of a pound of butter; half a teacupftil of 
mixed spice. 

Well work the butter, fionr, and sugar together with the 
spices, until thoroughly incorporated; roll it thin. Cut it into 
small cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Cakes* 

Beat four ounces of butter to cream, throw in four ounces of 
powdered sugar, an ounce of piowdered ginger, and then the 
yolks of four eggs well beaten. When these are well mixed, 
work in a pound of fine flour to a paste, roll it out very thin, 
and bake twenty minutes in a slow oven. A tablespoonftil of 
Preston & Merrill's extract of ginger is much nicer than the 
powdered ginger. 

Dyspeptics can eat hot tea biscuits made with Preston & Mer- 
rill's infallible yeast powder. 

Lemon-drop Biscuits. 

Mix together half a pound of powdered sugar and half a 
pound of fine flour, with the flnely-grated rind of a large lemon ; 
add to it three ounces of dissolved butter, then the beaten yolks 
of three eggs, and lastly, three ounces of currants, and the 



100 CVISINE. 



1 



whites of the eggs in froth. Drop the biscuits on wafer-pai>er, 
and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven. 

Wafer Biscuits. 

To one pound of fine fiour add three ounces of finely-sifted 

sugar ; rub in one ounce of butter, then stir into the fiour the 

whisked whites of two eggs, and work the whole into a stiff 

paste with a little cream. Cover it, and let it lie half an hour ; 

then cut it into small pieces, and roll out iQto biscuits as thin as 

a wafer, and bake on tins in a quick oven for three or four 

minutes. 

Jumbles, 

Mix one pound of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, and 
the grated outer rind of a lemon, add the well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs, the whisked whites of three, and beat up the whole 
with four ounces of dissolved butter, and two or three table- 
spoonflils of cream. Drop the batter on baking-tins, and put 
the jumbles In a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

The infSsmible yeast powders have been made by Preston & 
Merrill for 25 years, and in all parts of the world where they 
have been sold are admitted to be the best ever offered to the 
public. Many kinds of baking powders have since been put 
upon the market, and been condemned by the public; but every 
year a new crop of imitations comes up in their turu to have a 
run and go out of sight. Some dealers prefer to sell these imi- 
tations because they can make more profit on them ; but for the 
consumers, the best is the cheapest. 

Plain Wine Biscuits, 

Into one pound of fiour rub three ounces of butter, and add 

as much water as will make it into a very stiff paste. Knead 

and beat it very well, and roll it as thin as a wafer ; cut into 

biscuits, prick with a biscuit pricker, and bake for five or six 

minutes. 

Sweet Wine Biscuits, 

Rub into a pound and a half of fine fiour, four ounces of but- 
ter, and four ounces of sifted sugar ; mix with the yolks and 
whites of two eggs, well beaten, and as much cream as will 
bring it to a very stiff paste ; knead It well, and roll several 
times, cut It Into thin biscuits, prick, and bake them In a brisk 
oven six minutes. 

Seed Biscuits. 

Mix one pound of powdered sugar with three pounds of fiour, 



and one ounce of caraway seeds ; rub into this one pound of 
butter, then knead it into a paste with three quarters of a pint 
of boiling new milk ; roll the paste very thin, cut it into biscuits, 
prick it, and bake in a slow oven ten minute^. 

Good Gingerbread Cc^kes, 

Melt before the fire half a pound of butter in one pound of 
fine treacle, stirring it till well mixed ; let it be half cool, then 
add three quarters of an ounce of powdered ginger, two ounces 
of candied orange or lemon in shavings, and one pound of flour, 
kneading it to a light paste ; then add a pound of powdered 
sugar, and immediately roll it into cakes not more than the 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and bake without delay on but- 
tered tins in a quick oven for three quarters of an hour. These 
cakes may be kept for some time in a tin box or drawer. 

Gingerbread. 

Warm before the fire half a pound of treacle and six ounces 
of butter; when partly cooled, add three tablespoonfUls of 
cream, half a pound of powdered sugar, one ounce of powdered 
ginger, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter 
of an ounce of allspice ; by degrees stir in two pounds of fiour, 
half a pound of currants, half a pound of chopped raisins, half 
an ounce of Preston & Merrill*s infallible yeast powder ; then 
pour the batter into a shallow buttered tin or mould, and bake 
for an hour and a half in a slow oven. 

OBEAMS. 

Creams include a variety of rich and delicate dishes, in which 
the principle ingredient is cream ; and in the country, where 
cream is to be had genalne, ^nd at a moderate expense, these 
preparations form an elegant addition to the dinner or supper 
table, at a comparatively light cost ; and many may be made ready 
in a few minutes, when need requires it. 

Quickly-made Fruit Creams. 

If creams are required in haste, the best way is to stir into a 
pint of cream a quarter of a pint of melted currant, strawberry, 
or raspberry jelly, with a teaspoonfUl of lemon-juice.^ If time 
will allow, whisk the cream into a Aroth, and fill the cream glasses 
with the froth ; but in haste, serve the simple mixed creams. If 
jam be used instead of jelly, it must be well pressed and rubbed 
down in the cream, and then strained through a silk tamis, to 
remove the seeds or skins of the fruit. 

To Whip Creams, 

Rub two ounces of sugar on the rind of half a lemon, and then 
press out the juice over the sugar, and allow it to dissolve. Stir 
into this a quarter of a pint of jelly, or the juice of fresh ftmit, 
and lastly, a pint of cream ; then whisk it till a froth rises, which 
remove with a skimmer to the glasses, and whisk again till the 
whole of the cream is frothed. 

Coffee Cream, 

One large cupftd of made coffiee; four ounces of sugar; three- 



102 CUISINE, 



quarters of a pint of milk ; yolks of eight eggs ; two ounces of 
gelatine. 

Put three-quarters of a pint of boiled milk into a stewpan with 
a large cupfdl of coffee, and add the yolks of eight well-beaten 
eggs and four ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Stir the whole 
briskly over a clear Are until it begins to thicken, take it off the 
fire, stir it for a minute or two longer,and strain it through a sieve 
on the two ounces of gelatine. Mix it thoroughly together, and 
when the gelatine is ^ssolved, pour the cream into a mould pre- 
viously prepared. 

Apple Cream* 

Time, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. One pound 
of apple pulp; half an ounce of powdered sugar, or to taste. 

Pulp boiled apples till yon have a pound weight of them. Add 
to tiiem half a pint of cream, the lemon-peel grated, and two 
spoonMs of brandy. Whisk the whole till it is a fine white 
cream, and leave a white f^oth at the top. Sweeten it to taste 
before whisking it. The quantity of sugar required must depend 
on the acidity or sweetness of the apple pulp. 

Use Preston & Merrill's cooking extracts, when you cannot 
procure the faults, as they are the pure flavors of finiits and spices 
they represent. 

Chocolate^ Cream. 

Time, twenty minutes. One bar of chocolate ; one pint and a 
half of cream ; yolk of flve eggs ; one tablespoonfUl and a half of 
good moist sugar. 

Break a bar of chocolate Into small pieces, and pour over them 
a pint and a half of cream, let it remain until it is dissolved, and 
then boil It slowly for ten minutes. Well beat the yolks of flve 
eggs with a spoonM and a half of good moist sugar, mix it with 
the cream, and pour it into cups. Stand them in a stewpan of 
boiling water, which must only cover half-way to the edge of the 
cup, and let them remain simmering twenty minutes with the 
cover of the stewpan kept on. When done, place them in a very 
cold place. Milk may be used instead of cream If a less expen- 
sive cream is required. 

Lemon Cream. 

One pint of water; peel of three large lemons; Juice of four 
lemons; six ounces of flne loaf sugar; whites of six eggs. 

Pare into a pint of water the peel of three large lemons ; let 
it stand four or flve hours ; then take them out, and put to the 
water the juice of four lemons and six ounces of flne loaf 
sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs and mix it all together 
strain it through a lawn sieve, set it over a slow flre, stir it one 
way until as thick as good cream, then take It off the flre and stir 
it until cold, and put it into a glass dish. Sugar of lemon may 
be used instead of the fhiit. 

Orange cream may be made in the same way, adding the yolks 
of three eggs. 

Color your JeUies and strawberry ice cream with Preston & 
Merriirs extract of cochineal. 



J 



CUISINE, 



103 



VanUla Ice Cream, 

One gallon sweet cream ; two pounds powdered sugar, and one 
tablespoonftil (or more to suit the taste) of Preston & Merrill's 
extract vanilla. Mix well together and freeze. 

Preston & Merrill's extract of vanilla is made ft'om the best 
Yanilla bean, and nothing else is used. They make an article 
four times the ordinary strength for confectioners* use. 

Pineapple Cream, 

Boil the rind of a pineapple, cut in pieces, In a quarter of a pint 
of milk for half an hour; then strain it, and add a pint of thick 
cream, three ounces of sugar, and a teaspoonftil of lemon-Juice ; 
thicken for ten minutes over the fire, and when cool, whisk into 
froth, and fill glasses. 

Orange Cream, 

BoU the rind of a Seville orange, cut thin, In a quarter of a 
pint of cream, for half an hour; then pound it smooth in a mor- 
tar, with the juice of the orange, and a tablespooufUl of brandy. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs well, with four ounces of powdered 
sugar, and mix with the orange ; then pour over by degrees a 
pint of boiling cream; beat it till quite cold, and fill the glasses, 
setting them in a dish of boiling water, and letting them remain 
there to be cold again. Ornament the top of the creams with 
thin slips of candied orange peeL 

Almond Cream, 

Found in a mortar four ounces of sweet almonds, adding half 
a dozen bitter almonds, or a few drops of Preston & Merrill's 
extract of almonds, blanched, with a tablcspoonfal of rose or 
orange-flower water. Put the paste into a quart of cream, with 
four ounces of powdered sugar and the juice of two lemons ; beat 
into a Aroth, and remove with a skimmer into glasses. 

Wine Cream. 

BoU the thin rind of half a lemon In a quarter of a pint of cream 
with two ounces of sugar, for twenty minutes ; then take out the 
lemon-peel, and stir in a pint of cold cream and a quarter of a 
pint of sherry or Madeira; beat up well into f^oth, and fill the 
glasses, or half fill with the cream, and firoth the remainder to 
pile on the top. 

Brandy Cream, 

Boil in a quarter of a pint of milk two ounces of blanched 
almonds and two or three bitter almonds, with three ounces of 
sugar ; when soft, pound all together till smooth, and leave to 
cool ; then beat up with the yolks of five eggs, two glasses of 
brandy and a quart of cream ; set it over the fire for a quarter 
of an hour, stirring it to thicken, but not allowing it to boil ; 
pour it into cups or glasses, and when cold, sift sugar over, and 
brown with the salamander. 

Burnt Cream. 

Boll a pint of cream with two ounces of sugar, the thin rind 



104 



CUISINE. 



of half a lemon, or a few drops of Preston & Merrill's extract of 
lemon and extract of cinnamon, and a stick of cinnamon fbr 
twenty minutes : take it off, and remove the lemon and cinna- 
mon ; pour the cream by degrees over the- well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs ; beat all well together, and pour into a dish or into 
glasses ; when cold, sift sugar thickly over, and brown with a 
salamander. 

Preston & Merrill's cooking extracts are put up in large bottles 
at reduced prices lor confectioners, hotels, etc. 

Italian Cream. 

Add to a pint of cream four ounces of powdered sugar, a table- 
spoonful of grated lemon-peel, a teaspoonftd of the juice, and a 
glass of sherry, or raisin wine ; beat and whisk the whole into a 
solid froth ; line a perforated tin mould with damp nfiuslin, and 
fill it with the creamy let it remain in a' cool place, if possible, 
on ice, for twenty-four hours ; then turn it out upon a dish, and 
put around it macaroons or Naples biscuit. 

Velvet Creamy an Excellent Family Beceipt. 

Cover the bottom of a glass dish with apricot jam, and pour 
over it a large tablespoonfhl of lemon-juice and a glass of sherry ; 
dissolve half an ounce of Isinglass in a quarter of a pint of 
water; add to it a pint of cream and three ounces of sugar; 
simmer it over the Are ten minutes, stirring it all the time; then 
strain it into a jug ; when half cold, hold the jug high above the 
dish, and pour the cream over the sweetmeat; let it stand to 
cool and stiffen. 

Lemon Cream without Cream, 

If cream cannot readily be procured, very good lemon creams 
may be served by rubbing off the outer rind of three lemons on 
six ounces of loaf-sugar in pieces, and squeezing over them the 
juice of two of the lemons till the sugar be dissolved; then 
beat up the yolks of six eggs very well, and strain them, and 
put over the Are in a silver or enamelled saucepan with the 
lemons and a glass of sherry ; stir it for a quarter of ani hour 
till thick, but not boiling ; then pour into glasses, and let it 
stand to be cold. 

OUSTABDS. 

Custard being an important component part of so many deli- 
cate entremets, requires to be made carefUUy, and need not, un- 
less the occasion demands it, be made expensively. The plain 
boiled custard, usually sent in with tarts or puddings, may be 
cheaply prepared. 

Custards may have the delicate flavors of lemon, orange, 
rose, vanilla, nutmeg, etc., communicated to them by using 
Preston & Merrill's cooking extracts, and as they are very 
strong, care must be used not to put in too much. A few 
drops of rose will answer where a teaspoonfUl or two of vanilla 
would be required. By their use you avoid the necessity of 
straining the custard, and you can flavor it after it is boiled and 
save driving off the fine aroma by the heat. 



SPRING BED LOUNGE, 



A coDvenleut and economical article of housebold or office 
furniture, combining In ooe a comfortable louDge, a apiral 
spring bed and a good mattress. 



mo. 6, closed. 

Tbe action consists In turning the seat and arm to the front 
In sneh a manner as to form one contlniioas mattress, the 
entire length and width of the bed, with no hard ridges or 
divisions Id the centre, the opened arm forming a bolster and 
head-board. Can be operated with perfect ease bj a child. 
Made of good materials, by experienced workmen. In a variety 
of styles suitable for the house of the poor, or the' parlor of 
the wealthy. 



ITo, 1, open. 

"So part of the ITpbolstery used for bed purposes. 

EVERT FRAME 'WARRANTED- 

FOB SALE Br ALL FVUNITITBE DEALERS. 

Mannnietarcd by- 

EUGENE D. UCOVIVT, 371 Hanrhill St., Bostoi. 



BOTANIC BALSAM! 



W« challenge flis varld ti 
prodnce g HEdtcloe betiei 
■dapied to the cure of dltatm 



Throat ad lunfs 

ASISIia FSOH COLDS. 

Il le far inipeHor (o any other 
medlciQa. In alt caees o[ 

PAIN, 

UMEISS OR WEJraSS 

Where Internal applteatlonain 



For Colda, Cough$, Sore- 
ness of the Lungs, 

Asthma, Bronchitis, 
Whooping Cough, Etc., 

It has already T)een tried bj 
lbousand4, and found ua Invil- 
UBble remed)'. 
By tbe Umelr u>e of thlg BAL. 



he ground. Periona sOlcud 
'reRke" th'em of tbefr r«« U 
lef bf the use of tbli Baliam. 

mn piPfY am 



General Jk.u'tM. 

43 Hanover Street, 

BOSTON, MASSt 

VERYWHERE. 



CUISINK 105 



A Cheap Custard, 

Put into a saucepan three pints of new milk, with half the thin 
rind of a lemon and a small stick of cinnamon. Simmer it for 
twenty minutes, then strain it, and add three ounces of sugar, 
a spoonful of arrowroot or ground rice, rubbed smooth in three 
tablespoonfuls of cold milk, and beat up with the yolks of three 
eggs, for ten minutes ; then mix by degrees with a little of the 
hot milk, and pour into the rest. Pour backward and forward 
several times to mix ; then stir it over the fire gently till it 
begins to thicken, taking care that it does not boll, or it would 
curdle. When thick, pour it out, and continue to stir until it 
gets cold, adding, if you choose, a dessertspoonflil of Preston & 
Merrill's extract of vanilla, rose, lemon or nutmeg, or a glass 
of wine or brandy, stirring it well in. It may be served in 
cups, in a bowl, or round the pudding it accompanies. 

Good Custard. 

Put into a saucepan a pint of milk and a pint of cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, two peach-leaves, and the thin rind of half a 
lemon, and let it simmer half an hour. Then strain and put on 
again with three ounces of sugar. Beat very well the yolks of 
six eggs, and mix gradually with the milk, stirring continually 
over the fire with a wooden spoon till It thickens, careftiUy 
avoiding to allow It to boll. Pour it out and add a glass of 
brandy, continuing to stir it till cold ; then fill the custard-cups 
and serve. 

Orange Custard, 

Pour over six ounces of sugar in a pan, the juice of six 
oranges, and let It simmer to a syrup ; then pour it out to cool. 
Beat up very well the yolks of six eggs, and mix with a pint 
of good cream. Set them over a slow fire, and stir continu- 
ally till the custard thickens and begins to simmer. Mix the 
syrup gradually, and stir a few minutes longer ; then turn out, 
and stir till cold, when it can be transferred to the custard-dish 
or cups. 

Lemon Custard. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs for half an hour to froth, and strain 
them ; pour over them a pint of boiling water and the outer rind 
of two lemons, grated. Make the juice of the two lemons into 
a syrup, with three ounces of sugar, and stir Into the custard. 
Then set it over the fire, adding a glass of Madeira and half a 
glass of brandy, and stir till it thickens. Pour it out, and stir 
till cold ; then serve in cups. 

Baspberry or Currant Custard, 

Make a rich syrup of a pint of raspberry or currant juice, pnured 
over eight ounces of loaf sugar. Skim it, and stir gradually into 
it over, a very slow fire the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and 
continue to stir for five or six minutes ; then pour it out, and as 
it cools stir in by degrees half a pint of cream and a tablespoonfUl 
of lemon-juice. Serve in cups. 



106 CUISINE. 



Apple Custard. 

Peal and cut into quarters two dozen good apples, and set them 
over the fire in a stewpan, with half a pint of cold water till re- 
duced to a pulp ; rub this through a tamis, and beat into it six 
ounces of powdered sugar and a tablespoonlUl of lemon-Juice ; 
simmer over the fire, and mix in by degrees the yolks of eight 
eggs well-beaten ; then pour it into a bowl, and set it in a pan of 
boiling water, stirring it continually till thicls, and adding a table- 
spoonfld of Preston & Merrill*s peach water ; then pour it out, 
and stir till cool. 

Coffee CiMtards, 

Gently sinmier over the fire a pint of new milk with a pint of 
cream, and then add an ounce of Aresh roasted coffee, nnground, 
and continue to simmer for twenty minutes to obtain the coflfee 
fiavor. Then strain the cream, and put it again over the fire, 
with three ounces of sugar and a quarter of a teaspoonAil of salt 
Beat up the yolks of eight eggs, and gradually mix with the milk, 
stirring the custard tUl tiiickened ; then pour out, and stir till 
cold. Serve in cups. 

Chocolate Custards. 

Pour two tablespoonfUs of boiling water over two ounces of 
rasped chocolate, and let it stand at the side of the fire till per- 
fectly dissolved. Put it into a pint of milk mixed with a pint of 
cream a pinch of salt, and three ounces of sugar, and simmer andl 
mill over the fire for ten minutes ; then add by degrees the yolks 
of eight well-beaten eggs, and mill to a froth while it thickens ; 
then pour out to cool. 

^Vanilla Custards. 

Boil half a pod of vanilla, cut in pieces, in a pint of cream, with 
four ounces of sugar, for a quarter of an hour ; then strain through 
a muslin. Beat the yolks of six eggs very well, and pour the milk 
over them into a bowl, — placing the bowl over a pan of boiling 
water, and stirring it rapidly till it thickens. Let it cool gradn- 
ally, stirring it continually. When cold, serve in a dish covered 
with the whipped white of eggs, sifted over with sugar. Preston 
& Merrill's extract of vanilla may be used instead of the pod, and 
is much less troublesome. 

A Good Tipsy- Cake. 

Take a stale sponge cake, of the size and form suitable to the 
custard dish ; pierce it over with the point of a larding-pin, and 
by degrees pour over it as much sweet wine and brandy as the 
cake will absorb : use a ladle or spoon and take up the liquor that 
flows into the dish, to pour over again ; then stick it fliU of 
blanched almonds split into thin spikes, and pour round it a good 
rich custard. Serve as soon as possible. 

ICES. 
Ices, which are now one of the cheap luxuries of the table, were, 
not many years ago, entirely confined to the wealthy, who had 



J 



CUISINE. 



107 



the means of preserving the ice necessary for the freezing pro- 
cess. 

For ordinary purposes, it Is only necessary to procure an ice- 
pail and freezer. 

When you want to use it, break up with a wooden mallet a 
few pounds of ice into powder; and throw amongst it two hand- 
fills of powdered saltpetre, or three handfuls of salt; put this in 
the pall in a very cold place, and set the freezing-pot in the 
midst of the Ice, which must fill up the vacancy round to the 
top ; then put into the freeziug-pot the cream, or whatever mix- 
tare you wish to have'Y^ozen. Turn the handle of the machine 
till the whole of the contents are equally fk'ozen, which you will 
discover when the handle will no longer turn. Then the ice is 
ready to be transferred to glasses, or to fill a mould, which will, 
however, be required to be plunged into the ice and salt another 
hour to fix it completely. 

Bcupberry or Strawberry Cream Ices. 

Mix with a pound of strawberry or raspberry jam, the juice of 
two lemons, witii a quart of cream, or a pint of milk and a 
pint of cream mixed ; rub the whole through a tamis into the 
tin Areezing-pot, place it in the ice-pail, and stir it till it Is Arozen. 
The pulp of fresh fruit, when in season, has a richer flavor, but 
will then require to be well-mixed with eight ounces of powdered 
sugar. The cream must not be removed firom the ice till wanted 
to serve. 

Apricot Cream Icea. 

Take iVesh and very ripe apricots and press out half a pint of 
juice ; mix with it the kernels of six stones pounded to a paste, 
with the juice of a lemon, four ounces of powdered sugar, and a 
pint of cream. Freeze, and serve it in a form or glasses. This 
is a most delicious ice, next to none but pineapple ice, which can 
only be obtained by a mixture of the juice of firesh pineapples. 

Vanilla Cream lee. 

Cut into small pieces and pound with a tablespoonAil of orange- 
flower water, half a pod of vanilla ; then rub the paste through a 
muslin to extract the seeds, and mix with a pint of cream, three 
ounces of sugar, and the yolks of three eggs. Beat all well to- 
gether over tlie fire for ten minutes ; then turn out, and when 
cool, proceed to freeze as usual. 

Currant or Baspberry-Water Ice. 

Water ices, which are more refreshing and wholesome than 
cream ices, are now used almost as extensively in England as on 
the Continent. They are generally made of the juice of fresh 
ftuits, pressed out through a linen bag. Then to each pint of 
juice add half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, and 
a dessertspoonftil of lemon-juice. When well mixed, freeze it 
like ice cream, and serve in a glass bowl or in glasses. 

Peach- Water Ics, 

Put into an. enamelled pan half a pint of water, a pound of 



J 



108 



CUISINE, 



loaf 8Ugar, the white of an egg beat to a stiff ftotb, and one 
peach kernel, and redace it oyer the fire to a symp; remove the 
scum, and take it off to cool. Take out the peach kernel, and 
add to the syrup a pint of pure peach juice, pressed from very 
ripe Aresh ftnit. Freeze it as usual. 

Apricot ice is prepared in the same way. Preston & Merrill's 
extract of peach and apricot are the best flayors. 

Bum Ice, 

Put into a pan one pound and a half of loaf sugar, on which is 
rubbed the outer rind of two lemons ; add the juice of one lemon 
and a quart of cold water. Stir it over the Are, and by degrees 
stir into the sherbet the whites of six eggs beat to a solid froth. 
Before it begins to simmer, pour it out to cool, add half a pint 
of rum, fCUd freeze it to serve in glasses. 

Lemon Ice Cream, 

Take one pint of cream, half a teaspoonftil of Preston & Mer- 
rill's extract of lemon, or take the juice of two lemons , half a 
pound of sugar ; mix; freeze. One quart. 

Pineapple Ice Cream, 

To half a pound of preserved pineapple pounded with sugar* 
add sugar and lemon juice to palate, one pint of cream, and a lit- 
tle new milk. Mix ; freeze. One quart. Or, take a pineapple 
weighing about half a pound, cut It in pieces, bruise it in a mor- 
tar. Add half a pound of sugar, the juice of one lemon; rub 
them well together in the mortar; pass through a hair sieve; 
freeze. A few slices of preserved pineapple may be added when 
frozen. One quart. '. 

Strawberry Ice Cream, 

Pick some strawberries (the scarlet are considered the best) 
into a basin or pan; add sugar in powder, with a quantity of 
strawberry jam equal to the fruit, the juice of a lemon or two, 
according to palate, a smiill quantity of new milk, and a pint of 
fresh cream; mix, and add a little color; freeze. One quart. 
Or, when fresh strawberries cannot be procured> take one pound 
of strawberry jam, the juice of one or two lemons, one pint of 
cream, and a little milk; color; freeze. One quart. 

Italian Ice Cream. 

Rasp two lemons on some sugar, compress the juice from the 
lemons, or use a half a teaspoontul of Preston & Merrill's extract 
of lemon ; to which add one pint of cream, one glass of brandy, 
half a pound of sugar ; freeze. One quart. 

Use Preston & Merrill's extracts to flavor ice cream, ices, etc., 
when you cannot procure the fruits. 

Wine Ices, 

Take a pint of any kind of wine, rasp four lemons and an 
orange on a lump of sugar, scrape it into the vessel in which 
the composition is about to be mixed ; extract the juice of the 



CUISINE. 



109 



lemons and orange, add the wine with a small quantity of water, 
and half a pint of clarifled sugar ; fVeeze. One quart. 

Punch Ice, 

Take one pint and a half of lemon ice, and add one glass of 
Champagne, one of ruin, and the juice of two oranges; freeze. 
One quart. 

Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon is made ftom the peel 
of the Sicily lemons, and is the true flavor. 

Pineapple-Water Ice. 

Take half a pound of ft'esh pineapple, bruised fine in a mortar, 
add the juice of one lemon, half a pint of water, one pint of 
clarified sugar ; pass through a sieve ; freeze. One quart. Pine- 
apple may be added as described in the receipt for pineapple ice 
cream. 

The .best freezer for family use can be obtained from Nathaniel 
C. Stearns, No 12 Bromfleld street. 

BliANCMAKGlD. 

Blancmange of all kinds can be flavored and colored by Pres- 
ton & Merrill's extracts. 

The various preparations of cream, included in the term of 
blancmange, or more correctly, blancmange/, are not, as might 
be concluded, all white, but varied in color and material ; though 
cream must form the foundation. 

Blancmange. 

Time, fifteen minutes. One ounce of isinglass or gelatine ; 
two ounces of blanched or pounded almonds ; one ounce of bit- 
ter ones; one pint and a half of milk; one pint of cream; one. 
lemon ; a spoonfUl of rosewater ; and two oances of loaf sagar. 

Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass, or gelatine, 
the sweet and bitter almonds, blanched or pounded, the new 
milk and cream, the lemon-juice, and the peel grated, with loaf 
sugar to taste. Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it 
till the isinglass is dissolved, then take it off and continue stir- 
ring it till nearly cool before putting it into the mould. This 
quantity will fill a quart mould, but if you wish to make it in a 
smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and 
a half a pint of cream. Color the top ornament with Preston 
& Merrill's extract of cochineal, and let it get cold before you 
add the rest of the blancmange. 

Arrow-Boot Blancmange, 

Inftise two ounces of arrow-root in cold water for twenty 
minutes; then pour off the water, and blend the arrow -root 
with a tablespoonftil of cream or orange -flower 'water. Boil a 
quart of new milk with four ounces of sugar, half a lemon*peel, 
a stick of cinnamon, and a teaspoonfbl of ratafia or pudding- 
flavor. Pour the milk over the arrow-root, stirring it continu- 
ally till cool ; then pour into a mould and leave it to set. 



110 



CUISINE. 



Oround Bice Blancmange, 

Mix gradually four ounces of fine ground rice with a pint and 
a half of good new milk ; if a part of this be cream, it greatly 
improves the blancmange. To this add three ounces of pow* 
dered sugar, and a teaspoonftil of ratafia or pudding-flavor. Stir 
it over the fire, continually beating it to prevent it running into 
lumps, and simmer it for thirty-five minutes ; then pour it into a 
mould dipped into cold water, and leave it in a cool place to 
set. 

Strawberry Blancmange. 

One quart of ripe strawberries ; two ounces of isinglass ; half 
a pound of loaf sugar; Juice of one lemon; one pint and a quar- 
ter of cream ; one pint of milk. 

Crush a quart of strawberries with a silver or wooden spoon, 
and strew over them a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, 
let them stand for several hours, and then press them through a 
hair sieve reversed. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint 
of boiling milk and the remaining quarter of a pound of sugar, 
then strain it through muslin, and stir It into tlie cream, and 
continue to stir it until nearly cold ; then pour it gradually to the 
strawberries, whisking it quickly together. Add the lemon 
juice, a few drops at a time, to prevent its curdling, and then 
put it into an oUed mould in a cold place, to set for twelve or 
fourteen hours. 

Lemon Blancmange. 

Three gills of milk ; half an ounce of isinglass ; four eggs ; 
peel of two lemons, or Preston & Merrill's extract of lemon; 
sugar to taste. 

Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in three gills of milk ; add 
four well-beaten eggs ; sweeten it to taste, and stir it over a 
slow fire until on the point of boiling, add a little brandy, if 
liked, and pour the whole into a mould. 

Baspberry or Bed Currant Solid. 

Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in a quarter 
of a pint of water ; strain, and leave it to cool ; dissolve half a 
pound of raspberry or strawberry jelly with a pint of cream and 
two ounces of sugar ; then beat them till well incorporated, and 
when all are half-cooled stir in the isinglass thoroughly, and fill 
a damp earthenware>mould, as metal would injure the rich color, 
and leave it to cool. 

Apple Snow. 

Put into a pan, without paring, twelve large apples, with the 
rind of a lemon, the juice, and a pint of cold water ; set them 
over a slow fire, and boil gently till apples are perfectly soft, but 
not broken ; drain them over a sieve, and when cool, put the 
pulp clear of seeds into a bowl, and beat it up to a strong froth ; 
beat the whites of twelve eggs to a solid froth with ten ounces 
of sifted sugar ; then beat the apple and eggs together till they 
resemble stiff snow ; heap this on a dish as high as possible ; put 



( 



CUISINE. 



Ill 



a small green 8pri<? into the middle, and serve as soon as possi- 
ble, that It may not fall. 

Bice Solid. 

Put into a pan four ounces of ground rice, three ounces of 
sugar, one ounce of butter, and a pint of milk, and a pint of 
creauL; flavor with a teaspoonftil of pudding-essence, ratafia, or 
a glass of brandy, and simmer over a slow fire for haJf an hour, 
stirring it continually; then pour into a custard dish, and set it 
in a coo] place to stiffen, and whisk a pint of cream into solid 
froth to cover it. 

Lemon Honeycomb* 

Pat into a dish the juice of a good-sized lemon with two 
ounces of powdered sugar ; whisk the white of one egg, a pint 
of cream, and an ounce of sifted sugar into stiff froth ; skin It 
off as it forms, and lay it upon the lemon-juice till all the cream 
is exhausted. Let it stand a day before you serve it. This is a 
cheap and pretty dish. 

Charlotte Husae of Apples and Apricots, 

Line a plain mould with Savoy biscuits dipped in clarified but- 
ter, exactly placed upright, to join so that the contents of the 
Charlotte do not escape ; cut off the ends to make it stand firm ; 
fill the mould with fresh apple jelly, or marmalade, with a spoon- 
ftil of apricot jam, or raspberry jelly in the centre ; cover the 
mould with buttered biscuits closely as at the sides ; put a dish 
over it, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven ; then turn 
over out of the mould, and serve hot. 

A FloiUing Island. 

Half fill a dish with rich custard ; then place in the centre a 
round slice of stale sponge cake, covered with any red jelly, then 
a smaller round of cake, with apricot jam ; alternately place the 
rounds of cake, each smaller than the last, and sweetmeats of 
varied colors, till you form a pyramid. Whip sweetened cream 
for the summit. 

A Sea of Floating Islands. 

Half fill a large circular glass dish with spinach cream ; boil 
and pulp three or four fine apples, and beat up the pulp with the 
whites of two eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a spoonful of Pres- 
ton & Merrill's orange-flower water to a stiff IVoth or foam ; lift 
it up in spoonftils and drop into the cream in several places. 
To vary this dish, you may use raspberry, or any red-colored jelly 
to whip with the cream, and float the islands on almond or any 
white cream. 

Fairy Butter. 

Beat in a mortar the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, three 
ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, two ounces of 
blanched almonds, and a tablespoonful of Preston & Merrill's 
orange-flower water. When reduced to a paste, mould and 
freeze it, and serve with sweet biscuits round. 



112 ' CUISISB. 

Orange Butter, 

Take the Juice of alx oranges and the yolks of eight hard- 
boiled eggs, and poand In a mortar, with four ooaces of sugar, 
a tablespooDfUl of orange-flower water, and fonr macaroons. 
When reduced to a paste, stir it over a slow Are for twenty min- 
ntea, till thickened. Dip a mould In water, and pour lu the mix- 
tore, and when cold, turn It out and serve with blsctiits. 
MeringtiCa. 

Whit^a of four email eggs; half a pound of flnely-powder 
sogar; lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

Whiak the whites of four small eggs to a high troHi, then stir 
into it half a pound of flnelj-powdered sugar ; flavor It vrlth Pres- 
ton & Merrill's extract of vanilla or lemon, and repeat the whisk- 
ing until Ic will lie In a heap, tben lay tl^e mixture on letter 
paper, in the shape of half an egg, moulding it with a spoon, 
laying each about half an inch apart. Then place the paper 
containing the meringues on a piece of hard wood, and put thorn 
Into a quick oven. Do not close it. Watch them, and when they 
begin to have a yellow appearance, take them out. Kemove the 
paper carefDlly from the wood, and let them cool for two or 
three minutes, then slip a thln-bladed knife very carefully under 
!, turn It Into your left band, take another from the paper in 
same ivay, and Join the two sides which were next the paper 
together. 

The soft inside may be taken out with the handle of a small 
spoon, the shells flUed with jam, jelly, or cream, and then joined 
together as above, cementing them together with some of the 
mixture. 

AppU Meringue. 

Time, four or five hours to stew; one hour to bake. 

Twelve large apples; some preserved wine sours; sugar ti 
your taste; some sugar tciug. 

Pare and core twelve large apples ; stew them gently for four 
jr Ave hours; sweeten them to your taste. Spread a layer on 
t souffle dish, then add a layer of presei-ved wine sours, stoned; 
then the remainder of the apples. Bake for an hour, and a 
short time before it is wanted, pat on an Icing of flue white 
sugar. Put it again in the oven to brown, and send it up quite 
hot as a remove at second course. 

PBBBBBVSS, JBIiliIIIS, STC. 

This important branch of domestic economy would require 
volume if we should enter Into all the scientific explanation of 
the Operation of preserving fruit. We shall content ourselves 
with some tried and approved receipts, requesting our readers to ■ 
pay particular attention to these useful preparations, which, well 
made and w<^Il preserved, form such a large part of the wealth 
and pride of the storeroom. 

Directions for Using Fruit Jars. 

Fill' the Jars while cold with fruit. Make a syrup of sugar 



A. STOWELL & 00. 

16 "Winter Street, Boston, 

WATCHES, JEWELHY, 

Fancy Goods, Silver Ware, Etc. 



sPECi Ai^xiE e 



Monograms 



MADE TO ORDE R. 

Whitby Jet, Frencli Gilt, Toitoise Sliell, RulilieT, 

Paftey Jewelry and J^ans. 

Elegant French Mantel Clocks and Bronzes, 

Slirllig Sllra in( Hstiro PlaM Wire, 

OPERA GLASSES AND FANS. 

WnichoH, JewElrj, etc, repnlred at short noUcs und st MMonnble ruiei. 



TO HEADS OF FAMILIES, 



An?i> 



BOnSBKEEPERS. 



ire advise much caution on the part of Ladies 
and Gentlemen desiHng to purchase a genuine 
Kelifihf that they may not he induced to try some" 
thing else of sitnilar or dissimilar name. There is 
nothing made which can take the place of the 

HALFORD 

LEICESTERSHIRE 

TABLE SAUCE. 

This famous Standard Goods can "be 
purchased of 

ANY FIRST-CLASS GROCER. 



cuismE. 



113 



(quantity as below) and pour into tlie jar until it Is filled half 
^ay up the neck. Put the jar in a boiler with a grate, pebbles 
or straw at the bottom, to keep the glass A:om actual contact with 
the bottom, and fill the boiler to the neck of the jar with cold 
water. Cover and boil as below. The boiling being completed, 
remove the jars, and after standing about five minutes, put on 
the rubber ring and cap, and screw down gently with the hands. 
After five minutes more, apply the wrench with vigor, and put 
away in a cool place, or cook the fhiit in syrup, made as directed. 
Heat jars in hot water. Fill with the hot fruit. Wipe the top 
of the jar clean. Put on the rubber ring and cap, as above di- 
rected. 

Quinces should be boiled in clear water, in a covered kettle 
until tender ; then careftiUy place in warm jars, which, fill with 
boiling syrup, and seal the jars as above. 

Tomatoes may be stewed and poured Into warm Jars and 
scaled as above ; or, if preferred, put into cold jars, whole or 
sliced, and the jars filled with cold water, then cooked In a 
boiler, as first described. 

Fruit Jars of all kinds can be obtained of D. B. Stedman & 
Co., 136 Summer street, Boston. 

Sf/rtip, 

All syrup should be well boiled before applied to the fhiit, as 
it prevents it fermenting. 

Cider may be kept fresh and sweet by simply heating it until 
it throws off steam, then putting into hot jars, and sealing imme- 
diately. 

Apple sauce ready for table use or pies, may be preserved by 
putting in hot jars, and sealing at once. Remember cold fruit 
requires cold jars, hot fruit requires hot jars. 

To Open the Jar, 

Loosen the rubber from under the cap with the thumb and fin- 
ger, so as to allow the air to enter, and it will easily unscrew. 

Color your jellies and strawberry ice cream with Preston & 
Merrill's extract of cochineal.. 

Raspberry i Currant, or Gooseberry Jam, 

These jams all require three-quarters of their weight in sugar ; 
but the fruit must be boiled first till broken. The raspberries 
and currants will not require more than half an hour's previous 
boiling, the gooseberries nearly an hour, before the sugar is 
added, when they must boil twenty-five to thirty minutes more. 
Be carelUl to stir, and to remove the scum. Gooseberry jam is 
much improved by the addition of a small quantity of red or 
black currant juice. 

Mixed Jam for Nursery Use. 

A good jam for common use may be made of cherries, goose- 
berries, currants, or any fruit in season, picked or stoned, boiled 
for half an hour, and then the proportion of half the weight in 
any cheap sugar may be added, and the boiling continued twenty 

8 



J 



114 



CUISINE, 



minutes longer. This Jam should not be kept longer than a few 
months. 

Blackberry Jam. 

As the blackberry, the most delicious of our native fruits, Is 
to be had for the trouble of gathering in most parts of New 
England, blackberry jam is one of the cheapest of preserves ; it 
is, moreover, a ftnit of rare and excellent quality, and may be 
eaten not only with safety, but with beneficial efibcts by all. 
The berries are ripe and plentiful in September, and merely 
require nice picking, half the weight of any kind of sugar, and 
three-quarters of an hour boiling. The single objection to the 
Jam is the quantity of seeds ; but the Jelly made firom this Aruit 
is perfect. 

Apple or Pear Jam, 

Fare and quarter ripe Juicy apples or pears, and boil them at 
a great distance from the fire till they become a Jam. Have 
ready a rich syrup, and add in proportion of one pint of syrup 
to three pounds of fhiit, and boLL for a quarter of an hour. Turn 
out Into pots. 

All the approved styles of fhilt Jars are for sale by D. B. Sted- 
man & Co., 136 Summer St., Boston. 

Strawberries, preserved lohole. 

Take equal weights of strawberries and loaf sugar, put the 
sugar into a pan with merely sufilcient water to dissolve it, and 
let it boil till the surface is covered with small bubbles ; this 
will probably be in about twenty minutes ; then put In the fruit, 
with one pint of red currant Juice to each pound of strawber- 
ries, which improves the color; allow it to boll five minutes, 
then put into small Jars. It is not necessary to use more sugar 
for the currant-Juice, the strawberries being of themselves so 
sweet. Bed currants or rai^pberries, with the addition of white 
currant-Juice, black currant, apricot, or other Jams, may be 
made in this way. The advantage over the old process is, that 
the quantity of Jam is greater, the color finer, and the flavor of 
the fruit perfectly retained. 

n^e Foundation of all Jelly, 

Take one package of gelatine ; half a pint of cold water; one 
pint of water ; the peel of five lemons ; one small stick of ciu- 
namon; six cloves, or Preston & Merriirs extracts of these 
articles; Juice of six lemons; half a pint of sherry; a quarter 
of a pound of loaf sugar ; whites of five eggs. 

Take a packet of gelatine, dissolve it in half a pint of cold 
water, and th«n add a pint of hot water, the peel of five lemons 
without the pith, a small stick of cinnamon, the cloves, the Juice 
of the lemons, the sherry, and the loaf sugar. When done, 
clarify it with the shells and whites of five eggs. 

If you wish to make any other kind of Jelly, omit the sherry^ 
and add, for instance, orange Juice for orange Jelly, or the Juice 
of strawberries, cherries, pineapple, or any other fruit. The 
Jelly takes its name from its flavoring. No Jelly of several 



CUISINE, 



115 



colors shoald be set warm, as the different colors run and weaken 
it extremely. 

Coloring for Fancy Jellies, Creams, etc. 

However ornamental colored sweetmeats may appear at dinner 
or dessert, it should be peremptorily enforced on the cook that 
this elegance should not be obtained at the risk of health. The 
pages of recent medical works have shown us that in bought 
confectionery the coloring matter Is almost universally of a 
deleterious, often of a poisonous nature. Simple vegetable col- 
orings should only be permitted. Of these, we can safely 
recommend, as below : — 

For red, It is usual for cooks to boil fifteen grains of cochineal 
In the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tar- 
tar in half a pint of water, very slowly for half an hour, adding 
a piece of alum as large as a pea. The cochineal insect may be 
used in safety in such a small quantity ; but we would recom- 
mend the Juice of beet-root drawn out over the fire in a little 
water, with the addition of a squeeze of lemon juice. It is, 
however, much more convenient to use Preston & Merrill's ex- 
tract of cochineal for coloring jellies, syrups, and candies. 

ITor green, a beautlAil color may be obtained from the ex- 
pressed juice of spinach leaves. 

For yellow, if a transparent color be required, orange or lemon 
jelly dissolved ; if opaque, the pounded yolks of eggs. 

For white, pounded almonds, arrowroot, or pure, clear mate- 
rials, as in silver Jelly. 

Lemon Jelly, 

Time, altogether, one hour. Peel of four lemons, juice of 
six ; three glasses of sherry ; three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar; one ounce and a half of isinglass; pint of spring 
water. 

Steep the thin peel of four lemons in half a pint of boiling 
water until strongly fiavored with the peel, or use Preston & 
Merrill's extract of lemon. Put the sugar, pounded with the 
isinglass. Into a stewpan, and boil it slowly for about a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes ; then add the strained lemon- 
juice and the water from the peel, or one teaspoonfUl extract 
lemon ; add when cold. Let It just boil up ; skim it well ; add 
the wine, and strain it until quite clear. 

Orange Jelly, 

Time, until it almost candies. Peel of two Seville, two Ha- 
vana oranges, and two lemons, juice of three of each ; a quarter 
of a pound of loaf sugar ; a quarter of a pint of water ; two 
ounces of isinglass. 

Grate the rinds of the Seville, Havana oranges, and lemons ; 
squeeze the juice of three of each, strain it, and add the juice 
to the sugar and the water, and boil it until it almost candies. 
Have ready a quart of isinglass Jelly made with two ounces of 
isinglass ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up. Strain off the 
jelly, and let it stand to settle before it is put into the mould. 



116 



CUISINE, 



Calf 8 Feet Jelly. 

Time, to boil the feet until reduced to one quart ; to reboil 
the jelly, a quarter of an hour. 

Two calf s feet; two quarts of water; half a pound of loaf 
sugar ; one pint of white wine ; a wineglass of brandy ; four 
lemons, or Preston & Merrill's extract, to suit the taste ; whites 
of four eggs. 

Cut two feet in small pieces, after they have been well cleaned 
and the hair taken off. Stew them very gently in two quarts 
of water till it is reduced to one quart. When cold, take off 
the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment. Put It Into a 
saucepan with half a pound of loaf sugar, a pint of white wine, 
a wineglass of brandy in it, four lemons, with the peel rubbed 
on the sugar, or Preston & Merrill's extract lemon, to suit the 
taste ; the whites of four eggs well beaten, and their shells 
broken. Put the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly 
after it begins to warm. Let it boll a quarter of an hour after 
it rises to a head ; then cover it close and let it stand about half 
an hour ; after which pour it through a jelly-bag, first dipping 
the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite 
dry. Pour the jelly through and through until clear, then put 
it into the mould. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of 
water ; then draw out over the flre and press the cranberries, 
and add the isinglass jelly to a pint and a half of the julcfe, a 
dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, six ounces of - sugar, and the 
whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Simmer ten minutes ; 
then strain tlirough muslin tiir clear, and fill the mould. 

An Excellent Apple Jelly. 

Cut two pounds of sweet apples into quarters, without peel- 
ing, throwing them into cold water as you cut them. Then 
put them into a preserving-pen, with a quart of fresh, cold 
water, and boil tlU they become a pulp, adding as the apple 
boils one pound of loaf sugar, and half a pod of vanilla, cut in 
pieces and tied in muslin to prevent the seeds from mixing, or 
a little of Preston & Merrill's extract of vanilla. Then run it 
through a jelly bag; it must stand some hours to allow it to 
pass through completely. It must then be simmered over the 
fire twenty minutes, to jelly, and poured into the mould. 

Punch Jelly. 

Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass in a pint of boiling 
water. Rub off the peel of two lemons on ten ounces of loaf 
sugar, and pour over it the juice of three lemons and one 
Seville orange, a quarter of a pint of rum, and a quarter of a 
pint of brandy. Put it over the fire, and pour the dissolved 
isinglass in, and simmer three or four minutes, — not longer; 
then pass the liquor through a silk or muslin sieve into the 
mould. 

This is a favorite winter jeHy. 



J 



CUISINE, 



117 



Marble Jelly, 

Take any piece of orange, strawberry, and apple-jelly of irreg- 
ular form and size, and thfow into a mould, shaking them to- 
gether. Then fill up the mould with silver jelly or any trans- 
parent colorless jelly, as cool as it will remain liquified. Let it 
remain to be well mixed, and if tasteftilly arranged, this will be 
a pretty form of jelly. 

Calf 8-Foot Jelly or Four Fruits Whole* 

Melt a pint and a half of apple-jelly ; pour a little into a mould, 
and place in the jelly, with taste, large strawberries and full 
branches of white currants ; then pour in more jelly, and add 
white raspberries, and bunches or red currants, and fill up the 
mound with the Jelly. When cold and turned out, this is a 
beautiful entremet. If these Aruits are not in season, any fruits 
preserved whole, or slices of preserved peaclies or apricots, may 
be arranged in any transparent or light-colored jelly. 

Pineapple Jelly. 

Cut a treah pine In slices ; cover them with powdered sugar, 
and leave them a few hours ; then pour off, and strain to obtain 
a pint of the syrup. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of 
water and clarify it ; pour over the syrup and simmer five min- 
utes over the fire ; add a glass of curacoa, and pour into a mou?d 
shaped like the pineapple. It will require to be very carefully ' 
turned out, and will then be very elegant. 

Almond Jelly, 

Found in a mortar four ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of 

bitter almonds, with a tablespoonfhl of brandy. Make a syrup 

of ten ounces of sugar, and stir in the almonds ; simmer for five 

minutes ; then run it through a tamis into two pints of good warm 

^ stock; add two glasses of curacoa, and fill your moulds. 

Bed Currant Jelly, 

This most indispensable article of the store-room rarely falls to 
be successftilly made by any tolerably careful cook, the process 
is so simple. Put the ftuit, quite ripe, over the fire, in an enam- 
elled pan, and stir them till the juice begins to fiow freely, then 
strain it through a jelly-bag, and return the juice to the pan; 
boll it for twelve or fifteen minutes, and add fine loaf sugar, one 
pound to each pint of juice; stir it till dissolved and five minutes 
longer, then pour out the jelly into small pots or glasses. 

Strawberry or Baspberry Jelly, 

Get fine-colored, fresh, ripe fruit, and put over the fire at a 
sufficient distance for the juice to flow slowly ; but do not allow 
it to run longer than it is perfectly clear, probably twenty min- 
utes ; then run it through a jelly-bag without pressing. If the 
juice is at all turbid, strain it again through muslin into the pan, 
and simmer it a quarter of an hour ; then add one pound of fine 
sugar to each pint of jnice, and boil it ten minutes longer. Keep 



118 



CUISINE. 



it in small glass jars. It ought to be clear and beaatiftil in color, 
and is very asefal for creams or ices. 

Cherry jelly may be made in the same way. 

Raspberry and strawberry syrup may be flavored with Preston 
& Merrill's extracts. 

Currant or Other Fruit Jellies (unboiled). 

This is a French mode of jellying the fruit, and certainly the 
flavor is preserved to perfection; but there is more difficulty in 
keeping the jelly dry, and in an equal temperature, in our cli- 
mate, and it is apt to liquefy. Draw the juice from the trnit in 
I the usual way over the flre ; do not strain, but run it through a 
jelly-bag or pour it off" clear, leaving the fhiit for common tarts. 
Take one pound of sugar for each pint of juice, and powder it in 
a mortar; do not buy the sugar powdered, as it is often adulter- 
ated, and will then render the jelly turbid. Stir the powdered 
sugar by degrees into the juice while warm, till it is completely 
dissolved; then pour into small jelly moulds or pots, and leave 
uncovered for twenty-four hours, when it will be completely 
stlfl'ened, and will keep in a perfectly dry store closet. 

Black Currant Jelly, 

This jelly, chiefly used in cases of sickness, should be made 
as little luscious as is consistent with safe preservation. The 
juice must be drawn over the flre, strained And boiled for twenty 
'minutes, then the sugar added in the proportion of three-quar- 
ters of a pound to each pint of juice, and boiled ten minutes 
longer. 

Quince Jelly, 

The quinces should not be very ripe : peel, quarter, and core 
them, and immediately put them over the fire with half a pint of 
water to each pint of ftuit, and boll till tender, but not pulpy; 
pour out the whole, and leave the fruit In the juice for six 
hours, then run it through a jelly-bag. Put the juice over the 
flre In your preserving-pan for twenty minutes, that the watsr 
may evaporate ; then add one pint of clarified syrup to each pint 
of juice, stir well, and simmer for ten minutes, then pour into 
ttie jelly pots. 

Barberry Jelly, 

This is one of the most elegant jellies to introduce at table, 
and should be carefully made. Procure the fruit in October, 
when quite ripe, bruise them gently, and put over the fire with 
a very small quantity of water ; let them gradually break and 
become tender, which will require nearly an hour; then pour 
through muslin, and boil lip the juice again with an equal quan- 
tity of clarified syrup ; In five or six minutes, put out into the 
pots. 

Preston & Merriirs extract of cochineal imparts a beautiful 
red color to jellies, syrups, marmalades and any kind of confec- 
tionery that requires that tint, it keeps well and is perfectly 
healthy. 



CUISINE. 



119 



MARMALADES. 
The most approved marmalades are orange and quince, the 
"welcome addition to breakfast tables ; but there are several other 
preparations of this delicate confection which are not only agree- 
able to the taste, but useful in many cases of sickness. For 
these we give some of the best receipts. 

Orange Marmalade. 

This delicious preserve, which requires the greatest care in 
preparation, is made chiefly of Seville oranges, and usually about 
February or March, when the Seville oranges are plentiful and 
in the best condition. Pare the outer rind ^om four oranges for 
every dozen pulped, and cut the rind up Into small chips ; scoop 
out the pulp, free Arom seeds and fk'om the white inner skin, 
weigh the palp and rind together before you put them into the 
preserving-pan, and have ready heated equal weight of loaf 
Bugar; let the pulp and peel boil half an hour, or till the chips 
are tender, then add the sugar ; and let it boil fifteen minutes 
longer ; then fill the marmalade pots. 

Quince Marmalade, 

Choose fine ripe quinces, and put them into boiling water over 
the fire till they are tender, then pare, quarter, and core them ; 
put the cores and skins back into the water ; boil till it is half 
reduced, and strain it. In the mean time, put the quinces over 
the fire, and let them stew gently with an equal quantity of sugar, 
pouring over them the strained liquor, breaking up the firuit with 
a wooden spatula, and stirring till the whole forms a rich mar- 
malade. This will require two or three hours, after which the 
marmalade may be poured into pots. 

Pear Marmalade, 

Pare, divide, and core large pears, boil them in jis much water 
as will cover them till they are tender, then take them out, and 
put into the same water the parings and cores of the pears ; boll 
till half reduced, and strain. Use the strained liquor, in making 
a syrup of three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a pint of water 
for every pound of pears. When this syrup is boiled till it jellies 
on the spoon put in the pears and boil up, stirring them for a. 
few minutes, till the marmalade is smooth and ready for the pots. 

Preston & Merrill's extract of cochineal imparts a beautiful 
red color to jellies, syrups, marmalades and any kind of confec- 
tionerv that requires that tint ; it keeps well and is perfectly 
healthhil. 

Peach Marmalade, 

Pare, divide and stone the ftuit, and boil for half an hour, stir- 
ring it continualty ; then add three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to each pound of the fruit, and one-fourth of the kernels blanched, 
and boil up for a quarter of an hour ; the marmalade will then be 
ready for the pots. 

Cherries in Brandy. 

Dissolve a pound and a half of white sugar-candy in a pint of 



120 



CUISINE, 



brandy, and drop la as many fine ripe cherries with the stalks 
half cat away as the brandy will cover, adding half a.pint of fresh 
clear raspberry juice, which will improve the color; cover up 
closely, and when the fruit has absorbed the brandy, add a little 
more till the cherries be fdlly saturated ; keep them still covered 
with the brandy ; cork closely, the corks covered with bladder. 

Peaches in Brandy. 

Cover the ftmit with a good syrup, and stew them over the 
fire till perfectly tender, as you can ascertain by passing a needle 
through ; take them out and put into Jars, pouring the »yrup over 
them, and when cool fill up the jars with brandy ; cover and 
allow title brandy to be absorbed, then renew it, as with the cher- 
ries, before you cover the peaches sectirely. 

Nectarines, plums, and other fruit the same way. 

To Keep Bipe FruU in BoUles. 

Gather the fttiit perfectly dry and sound, and weigh with an 
equal quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded ; bruise 
the fruit gently in a mortar, not sufficiently to force the juice to 
flow, then put into wide-mouthed bottles, strewing in the sugar 
amongst it; fill the bottles entirely, leaving only space for a 
coating of melted mutton suet, which will effectually exclude the 
air. Baspberries, strawberries, or currants, preserved this way, 
make delicious tarts or creams in the winter. 

Almond Taffy. 

Boil a S3rrup of a pound of sugar to half a pint of water to 
caramel height, throwing in an ounce of blanched almonds split 
into strips, and an ounce of butter. When the candy hardens 
at once in the water, turn it out on a buttered slab, and cut up 
into thin squares. 



\ 



' 



1 ■ t-mt 'ir III' *'il ilT*" - - f. - - -> I ■-" r'i Mt itti ti ■ ilT iif iTf iT* i li lii ■TTi "^ 



Washington S. 



E. BUTTk 

Patterns ot\ 



\ 



Ladies, Misses, Boys and \ 

of both Sexes, and ojn 

S 

CELEBRATED SHEARS AND %t 



MANUFACTUBER ANB DEALER 19 



MacUne Twist, Sewing i^ 



^ 



COTTON AND LINEN THREADS, 

Needles, Shuttles, Bobbii 

HAin) AND SEWING MACHINE FINDINaS 

»M \ 



K 



D. D. FOSTER, \ 

s 

V 

No. 181 Wasbington Street^ - - - Boston, Hass. 



/ 



Ii^ 



% ■■\i 



3^ 



.^^ 




Had€ m ftiif 







