Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



\ 



ON CORPULENCE 



nr 



RELATION TO DISEASE. 



ON COEPULENCE 



IN 



EELATION TO DISEASE: 



WITH SOME REMARKS ON DIET, 



BT 

WILLIAM HARVEY, 

VBLLOW OF THV BOYAL OOLLVGS OV BUBOBOITS, ATTBAL-SmiOBOir CO XHB 
eSBAC VOBTaBBV HOSPITAL, AKD SUBOBOIT TO THB SOTAL DI8PXVBAST I>OB DIBXASBS 

OB THB BAB. 



007^>> 




LONDON : 
HENRY RENSHAW, 356, STRAND. 

1872. 



/^/. Jb^ 



/^-5. 



LOVDOV: 
S^YILL, EDWABDS AND 00., PBIHIBBSy OHANBOS SIREKT, 

OOYBHT GABDBN. 



PREFACE. 



Several years have passed away since Mr. Banting 
consulted me for Deafness, the treatment of which led 
to his publishing a pamphlet on Corpulence. It was 
not my intention to appear in print on this subject, 
but for an inconvenient correspondence, and which I 
find is but of little avail to reply to by letter. I there- 
fore think it expedient to give a brief outline of the 
views which led to the treatment of his infirmity, 
which may interest the reader, and possibly prevent 
much misunderstanding. 

Few who have passed many years in the practice 
of medicine but must have been aware how little 
attention had been directed to this painful condi- 
tion of the human body, more especially with refe- 
rence to its dietary treatment. Indeed, the medical 
history of former years is so unsatisfactory on this 
point, that it was considered a most singular disease, 
with but little hope of relief, the main reliance for 
its cure or mitigation being placed on the exhibition 
of drugs, and certainly those of the most nauseous 
description. The marvel is that any one was found 



VI PREFACE. 

with sufficient resolution to persevere in a treatment 
of this character, and even when rigidly followed, 
rarely resulting in cure. The advance made in phy- 
siology and animal chemistry of late years has thrown 
light on the treatment of this disease, and has happily 
now enabled us to explain those hitherto chance 
recoveries on rational and definite principles. My 
own special attention was drawn to this subject in 
consequence of its frequent occurrence in connexion 
with defective hearing in one or both ears — ^most pro- 
bably arising from stealthy and insidious depositions 
in the canals leading to the air-passages of the nose 
and throat — and had Mr. Banting not suffered from 
deafness, the probability is that his pamphlet would 
not have appeared. 

In this essay I shall endeavour to show how 
much the treatment has been misapplied in many 
cases, particularly by those who have rashly and 
indi^lly adopt^l'a .y^ which re,ui^ the 
greatest caution by their medical adviser. It was also 
natural to expect that a pamphlet on a dietary for the 
cure of Corpulence, coming from a lay source, would 
not have found much favour with the profession, and 
that it would receive some severe criticism. By some 
it has been highly lauded ; by others, blamed : on the 
whole, it may be said that it now holds a place in 
every issue or monograph from the medical press re- 
lating to diet and nutrition. 



PiREFACE. VU 

The history of medicine contains numerous instances 
of extraordinary cases of Corpulence, and an immor- 
tality attaches to some persons, solely on account of 
their special aptitude for the development of fat. It is 
not in reference to such exceptional examples as some 
of the earlier records of medicine unfold that the 
practitioner is likely to be consulted, but the cases are 
not infrequent in which his aid may be solicited in 
mitigating the inconveniences which excessive adipose 
development entails. 

The sufferers from this disease are found most 
frequently among those on whom fortune has smiled, 
whose incentives to physical exertion are in abeyance, 
while the inducements of the table are in excess. 
Nevertheless, among the out-patients of hospitals 
we occasionally notice cases in which Corpulence has 
been the cause of a variety of subjective symptoms 
which have made life wretched. 

There may be others, and probably many, in private 
life, who doubtless have had good sense and courage 
enough to adopt a line of conduct which resulted in 
cure ; but the instances on record are, I believe, 
sufiBcienily rare to authorize a publication altogether 
devoted to the subject. But as the history of persons 
who have actually died from great accumulation of 
fat, for the most part only excites a temporary surprise, 
it may at least be worth the attempt, to see what 
may be effected by an accurate account of others, who 



VUl PREFACE. 

have successfully struggled against a laborious exis- 
tence and premature death. 

The extraordinary case of the late Mr. Lambert, 
and of John Bright, of Maiden, whose weight was, 
the first fifty-four stone, the other forty-three, are 
forcible examples in point. From the detail of their 
lives it does not appear that any decided attempt 
was ever made to arrest the progress of the disease, 
which, from an early period, seemed rapidly to 
increase, and the termination of which must have 
been foreseen. But whether this inattention arose 
from ignorance^ or from the common prejudice that 
the complamt is so connected and interwoven with 
the constitution as to be irremediable, is matter of 
conjecture ; and we are only left to wonder that these 
prodigies of clogged machinery should have continued 
to move, live, and have their being for so many years. 
And these points I hope to show ought of necessity 
to be observed in the treatment of this distressing 
disorder of the human economy. 

It is only by returning to the views and opinions 
of medical authorities a century ago that we can duly 
appreciate the vast service Chemistry has rendered 
physiology, and, indirectly, practical medicine. The 
influence of respiration in removing carbonaceous 
materials from the blood, and the possibility of the 
production of fat from farinaceous and saccharine 
bodies, are so familiar to us now that we wonder at 
the absence of knowledge on these subjects displayed 



PB£FAC£. IX 

by the older writers ; they all insisted on a non-nutri- 
tious diet for the cure of Corpulence, meaning thereby 
an avoidance of meat, and an indulgence in milk and a 
farinaceous diet. A great mistake was also made in 
supposing that the urine was the only outlet for fatty 
matters, while they ignored that by the lungs. 

Until corpulence is far advanced, persons rarely 
become objects of attention ; many have even con- 
gratulated themselves on their comely appearance, 
not seeking advice or a remedy for that which they 
did not consider an evil ; but it must not be supposed 
that it is a matter of little moment, nor ought we to 
be satisfied in postponing its remedial treatment. 

Although the views herein offered may, even 
if practically and judiciously carried out, fail to 
prolong the natural term of existence, still they 
afford us the satisfaction of knowing that we may 
ward off those accidents which would otherwise lead 
to its premature termination. We cannot of course 
augment the allotted measure of our vital energy, but 
we can, at least, learn to husband its resources, and 
not to consume with wanton indifference the unre- 
cruitable oil by which the lamp of life is supported. 

In Sir John Forbes' work, " Nature and Art in the 
Cure of Disease," are the following observations, which 
I take leave to quote in this place: — "All well-informed 
and experienced members of the medical profession 
are painfully aware of the great imperfection of their 
art, and of its inadequacy to fulfil in a satisfactory 



X PREFACE. 

manner much that it professes and undertakes to ac- 
complish. It must be admitted, however, at the same 
time, that this recognition of its defects is accom- 
panied by an ardent desire and by incessant efforts on 
the part of its professors to lessen and remove them. 
It may indeed be truly said of the professors of the 
medical art generally, that a lively zeal for the pro- 
motion of every kind of knowledge on which it rests 
is one of the features of their character. Few are 
contented to practise medicine as an art, and still 
fewer to practise it as an art that has reached the 
point at which it can be regarded as satisfactory, 
much less as perfect. By this universal striving 
for improvement, the practice of medicine is per- 
petuaUy changing ; advance and not retrogression 
must be admitted as the general result. Such results, 
as in the case of those already attained, can be only 
expected to flow from the co-operation of innumerable 
labourers scattered probably over long tracts of time, 
who must be content to add to the general stock I have 
referred to above. Without much prominence of indi- 
vidual handiwork, certainly, in the disease under 
consideration [Corpulence], we have evidence of its 
progressive improvement, and a certainty as to its 
successful treatment, during the last twenty-five years, 
since the advance made in physiology and animal 
diemistry. It is also true that since the period referred 
to great advances have been made in some important 
points of the history of diseases, as in the structural 



PREFACE. XI 

pathology, as well as in many of their physiological 
relations, so that it must be admitted that well- 
informed practitioners of the present day have a mnch 
deeper insight into the exact chara>cter of many of the 
diseases treated by them than was possessed by their 
predecessors/* 

2, SoHO Sqtiabe, 

AprU, 1872. 



ON COEPULENCE 



IK 



KELATION TO DISEASE. 



*' Corpulence est un ^tat anormal de corps qui a $t6 dans tons les 
temps seulement constate et d^crit, principalement comme 6tant un 
ph^nom^ne curieux; alors, comme aujourd'hui, personne n'avait 
^tudie cette constitution avec les incony^nients, les accidents, les 
infirmit^s et les maladies qu'elle produit ou qu'elle entretient. 
Les remMes que Ton trouve indiques dans les livres pour faire 
cesser cet 6tat du corps ne sont fond6s, comme nous le dimontrerons, 
sur aucun principe. Aussi les auteurs m^mes ne les donnent pas 
comme infaillibles ; bien plus, corpulence est consid6r^e comme 
incurable par des mojens rationels." — DanceL 



" Corpulence is not only a disease itself, but the 
harbinger of others." So wrote Hippocrates, two 
thousand years back. Authors of antiquity, and also 
of modem times, writing on this subject, have made 
mention of Corpulence as affecting in its insidious 
progress the internal organs of the body — ^the heart, 
lungs, and abdominal viscera — ^but none have made 
any pointed allusion to its distressing effects on the 
senses of Hearing ^ Sights Taate^ and SmeU. My atten- 

B 



tion has long been drawn to it as a frequent cause of a 
growing deafness towards the meridian of life. Some 
years ago I suggested that two other diseases might 
be aggravated by this condition — viz., Eheumatism 
and Gout. There are other cases of deafness compli- 
cated with an excessive development of fat, which will 
not yield to ordinary treatment unless a scale of diet 
be adopted in which saccharine and starchy ma- 
terials are in some degree avoided, whether these 
be found in food or liquid. As a rule, in these 
cases, the patient should take a larger amount of 
animal food, but not to the exclusion of those fruits 
and vegetables which contain but little of sugar or 
starch. This treatment has great influence on such 
cases, and a further experience has confirmed a dietary 
regulation in the case of deafness, which will be 
detailed further on in this essay. I may here say 
that I have observed the symptoms to be very 
similar in both sexes ; but, in the female, I believe, 
they are more persistent, probably from her sedentary 
habits of life. 

These cases are sufficiently numerous, replete with 
interest, and of great practical importance to the Aural 
practitioner. Some, indeed, are established with a 
sufficient degree of certainty to admit of a decided 
relief from this mode of treatment, while there are 
others that may reasonably admit of some doubt. 

In order to assist the diagnosis of this type of 
chronic deafness, it will be my object first to give in 



detail the general symptoms which characterize the 
complaint from its first development in the system ; 
and, in the second place, to enumerate those particular 
points which are apt to engross the attention of the 
patient and his friends in the course of its progress. 

As I shall have occasion to refer to the cause of 
this disordered condition as a glandular disturbance of 
the mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, and throat, 
particularly of the naso-palatine portion, and its 
various sympathies, it will be more convenient first 
to give a brief outline of its distribution through 
the various canals of those organs in which these 
membranes are localized. It will be observed that in 
the treatment of this troublesome disorder it must be 
looked upon as a local expression of a constitu- 
tional cause, and therefore requiring in a great 
measure a constitutional treatment for its cure or 
relief. 

" Chronic diseases," says Sydenham, " proceed from 
ourselves ;" and although corpulency may be ranked 
amongst the diseases arising from original imper- 
fection in the functions of some of the organs, yet it 
must be admitted also to be most intimately con- 
nected with our habits of life. For which reason the 
inconveniences arising from it are to be removed 
chiefly by dietetic remedies. It will be unnecessary 
here to make any remarks on this head, as a general 
account will be given in the after-part of the essay. 

An attentive, and especially an instructed observer, 

b2 



looking into the throat, will readily make out — 1, the 
uvula; 2, the pendulous palate; 3, the isthmus of 
the fauces, and the tonsils on either side ; 4, still fur- 
ther back, the interior of the pharynx. All these struc- 
tures are invested by a mucous membrane. Towards 
the base of the tongue may be seen two membranous 
folds (the pillars or columns of the fauces), descending 
from the soft palate. These inclose a triangular space 
on either side, in which the tonsil is imbedded. There 
are, moreover, musculo-membranous folds. In the 
anterior fold is placed the constrictor muscle of the 
fauces, in the posterior will be found the palato- 
pharyngeus. The base of the tongue is below. The 
glandular bodies called the tonsils, are surrounded, as 
it were, on all sides by muscular organs acting on and 
compressing them, and causing intense agony when 
they happen to be acutely inflamed and swollen. In 
chronic enlargements no such suffering happens, and 
the increase of size is scarcely known to the patient 
from any physical annoyance. 

Immediately behind the isthmus may be seen the 
interior of the pharynx, but more especially that 
portion of it which, extending upwards to the base of 
the cranium, and backwards and downwards along the 
front of the spinal column, communicates more imme- 
diately with the posterior nostrils and the Eustachian 
tubes. This is the cavity which the illustrious 
Dzondi, one of the most practical surgeons of his day, 
viewed as distinct from the lower portion of the 



pharynx, being momentarily separated from it during 
the act of deglutition by the action chiefly of the 
palate-muscles, and of the palato-pharyngeal muscles. 
This temporary, and, as it were, momentary division 
of the bag of the pharynx into two cavities, distinct 
for the time being, becomes occasionally a permanent 
arrangement, as the result of adhesions of the palate 
and uvula to the posterior wall of the pharynx. 

Before we can enter with advantage into the pre- 
sent inquiry, so as fully to understand the develop- 
ment of the particular morbid action soon to be 
considered, the author deems it right to give a brief 
description of that part of the mucous membrane with 
which we are now engaged, as* also of its leading sym- 
pathies, as well as of the muscular arrangement of 
the pharynx, since many cases of disease may be 
explained and readily accounted for, by bearing in 
mind the nature of the several structures liable to be 
aflfected. 

This membrane lines all the cavities of the body 
which communicate with the external integuments. 
Bichat divided it into two great portions — scil., the 
gastro-pulmonary, and the genito-urinary. The former 
—that division which alone is now to be considered— 
commences at the eyelids, nose, and lips ; the part 
going to the eyes communicating with the nose by 
the lachrymal canal through which the tears flow. 
This same membrane also enters the cavity of the 
nostrils, forming the pituitary membrane, and entering 



the apertures of the Eustachian tubes, lines the in- 
ternal surface of the membrana-tympani, as also the 
cavity of the tympanum. It then extends over the 
nostrils, lining the septum narium, and having entered 
the several sinuses in that direction, is again lost in 
the external skin about the nostrils. But before this 
takes place, it is continued into the nasal duct with 
its sac and the lachrymal ducts; and through the 
puncta lachrymalia is once more united with the com- 
mon integuments. Here the tunica conjunctiva may 
be supposed to commence, which not only covers the 
anterior surface of the eyeball, but is continued through 
the excretory ducts, even to the substance of the la- 
chrymal glands. Again, commencing at the external 
integuments of the lips, with which it may for a 
moment be supposed to be lost, this same membrane 
enters the mouth, affords a covering to the internal 
surface of the cheeks, and to the salivary glands, 
whose ducts traverse it, as also to the tongue ; it then 
continues its course posteriorly. Behind the soft 
palate the mucous membrane from the mouth and 
nostrils becomes continuous, and from the throat 
downwards it divides into two portions — the one 
to line the air-tubes, the other the entire alimentary 
canal. 

Observing the continuations of this membrane, and 
considering the manner in which the nerves, bloods 
vessels, lymphatics, &c., are distributed to it, the 
existence of a principle of sympathy, by which the 



affections of one organ are transmitted to another, 
must be admitted ; the advantage to be derived from 
this source in the employment of remedies will be 
readily recognised. On this point Miiller says : — " A 
remarkable sympathy is observed to exist between the 
mucous membranes ; thus their diseases, particularly 
the mucous discharges and the catarrhal affections, 
have a great tendency to spread in them. By virtue 
of this sympathy, the state of one part of these mem- 
branes may be ascertained by examining another, so 
that the state of the mucous membrane of the tongue 
indicates the condition of that of the stomach and 
intestinal canal. All the mucous membranes have 
likewise an extraordinary connexion with the respira- 
tory movements ; thus, irritation of the mucous mem- 
brane of the nose produces sneezing ; irritation in the 
pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, or intestines, excites 
the respiratory movements ; and gives rise to a con- 
current action of the respiratory muscles, so as to 
affect their involuntary action, producing irritation of 
the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, or lungs, 
or even itching from irritation of the Eustachian tube, 
exciting coughing.'* 

The mucous membrane, like the skin, is composed 
of three layers ; the first, the epithelium, the cuticle 
of the membrane ; the second is the proper mucous^ or 
papillary layer, analogous likewise to the papillary 
layer of the skin. This is the surface which secretes 
and produces the epithelium. The third, the fibrous 



8 

or submucous, similar to the corium of the skin, 
is intended to afford support to the papillary layer. 

In the loose cellular tissue connecting the two 
latter layers, are placed the glands or follicles, which 
are peculiar to the mucous membrane. These glands 
are of two kinds, simple and compound. Henle thus 
describes the simple follicles : — " In almost every 
mucous membrane, even in those which are destitute 
of glands, there exist other organs, apparently con- 
nected with the secreting action of the membrane. 
They are roimd or oval closed cells, visible even with 
the naked eye, and sometimes quite transparent, but 
at other times filled with mucous globules." The 
compound follicles, or glands, on the other hand, are 
thus described : — " The substances of these glands 
consist of a mass of round or oval completely-closed 
cells, of different sizes, and containing some granular 
matter, and other perfectly-formed mucous globules. 
A number of these cells united by cellular tissue, and 
perhaps also by a structureless membrane, form an 
acinus, and as such, are seated upon a branch of the 
excretory duct, into which the mucous globules, and 
other matter contained in the cells, are from time to 
time poured, in consequence either of the membrane 
of the cells bursting, or of its becoming dissolved at 
the part where it is connected with the duct." 

These follicles are much more abundant in some 
parts of the mucous membrane of the air-passages and 
oesophagus than in others; thus the tonsils consist 



almost entirely of mucous follicles united together by 
cellular tissue. 

From the anatomy of the parts as above described, 
we pass on to notice the morbid alterations in 
the condition of the mucotis membrane lining the 
mouth and throat to which they are subject. The 
mucous membrane which lines the throat is of a 
slightly red, or pale rose colour, in its normal or 
healthy state ; but when it becomes the seat 
of inflammation its colour is altered, as it then 
passes from the naturally healthy hue to a deep 
scarlet, and eventually to a purple or violet colour, 
according to the nature, character, and intensity of 
the inflammation. It may be observed here that 
inflammation may attack any part of the structure of 
the mucous membrane separately ; either the mucous 
membrane itself, or the mucous follicles, or finally the 
subjacent tissues. Inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane itself is, generally speaking, spreading and 
diflPdse ; whilst inflammation of the mucous follicles, 
on the contrary, is circumscribed in its action. It 
sometimes happens, in the case of inflammation of the 
mucous surface, that the follicles may also take on 
the inflammatory process, and in this case, after the 
superficial inflammation has abated, it still may 
remain in the chronic form in the follicles. 

After it has continued for some time in a mucous 
membrane, the lesion most frequently to be observed 
is a morbid thickening of the part aflfected ; its surface 



10 

also often presents a granular appearance. To this 
lesion it will be necessary to direct attention, when 
that form of deafness is treated of, for the cure of 
which excision of the tonsil has been recommended. 

Having thus endeavoured to give such description 
of the distribution of the mucous membrane of the 
mouth and throat as may suflBce to make it clear how 
far the function of hearing may be interfered with by 
disease of this membrane ; having traced it in its 
various divisions and continuations through the nares, 
the sinuses, and the Eustachian tubes ; having tried 
to make clear the various sympathies, contiguous and 
remote, with diflferent other parts of the body ; having 
also exhibited in sufficient detail the chief lesions pro- 
duced in the mucous membrane by inflammation, both 
acute and chronic, — the author will next endeavour to 
point out the lesions of this structure most likely to 
affect the organ of hearing, and the manner in which 
that effect is produced. 

In the preceding pages it has been shown that, 
like other membranes of the body, the mucous mem* 
brane of the mouth and throat is liable to various 
degrees and kinds of inflammation, both acute and 
chronic, common and specific ; on closer investigation, 
it will be found that inflammation of this membrane 
is further modified, partly by its various and extensive 
sympathies with other organs, and partly by constitu- 
tional causes. Scrofula, rheumatism, and several skin 
diseases, the exanthemata, as scarlatina^ measles, and 



11 

small-pox/ as also influenza and diphtheria, affect it 
more or less, and are observed occasionally to give 
rise to severe and permanent disease, with the function 
of hearing much impaired, and not infrequently with 
total destruction of the auditive organ. Every prac- 
tical surgeon is well aware of the effects produced by 
the morbid poisons of this membrane, when they have 
deeply tainted the constitution. 

It is quite unnecessary here to urge the very great 
importance which this membrane sustains with re- 
ference to the function of hearing, as there will be 
occasion to show that a large proportion of the cases 
of deafness met with in practice actually depend en*^ 
tirely upon inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the throat extending through the Eustachian tubes to 
the cavity of the tympanum, which proves incurable, 
until due attention has been given to the extension of 
the disease throughout the whole cavity of the fauces. 
This membrane also covering the tonsil, and entering 
so much into its composition, is commonly associated 
in its inflamed condition with the enlarged gland, as 
well as with deafness, so much so, that the deafness 
has been somewhat hastily attributed to the closure 
of the mouth of the Eustachian tube by the enlarged 
tonsil ; but how much more simple and obvious is the 
explanation founded on the extension of the inflam- 
mation through the whole lining of the mucous mem- 
brane of the tube to the tympanic cavity. This does 
not imply that there may not be exceptions to this 



12 

rule, but they are very rare as regards the need of 
t)perative procedure. 

When the anatomical relations of the tonsils to the 
Eustachian tube are considered, it becomes diflScult to 
conceive any way in which the enlargement of the for- 
mer can so press entirely upon the expanded extremity 
of the Eustachian tube as to cause deafness. In the 
first place, the form of this trumpet-like opening care- 
fully preserved by its cartilaginous and fibrous struc- 
tures, and in the second place, its size, it being nearly 
half an inch in its longest diameter, militate against 
the probability of its becoming closed under ordinary 
circumstances. But when the relative position of the 
orifice with the tonsil is taken into account, the latter 
hanging an inch below the former, and when enlarged 
extending downwards and forwards, rather than up- 
wards, it is diflBcult to conceive that the gland can by 
its enlargement block up an opening which is above 
it and altogether out of its way — exceptions of course 
occasionally occurring. The accompanying figure 
shows the relative positions of these parts. 

As the functions of the mucous system cannot be 
too strongly enforced, a brief outline is here added. 
By its external anatomical position, this system is 
subservient to four great functions : the reception of 
impressions from without, the defence of the body 
from external injurious influences, the absorption of 
foreign particles, and the separation of such as are for 
any reason to be eliminated. It may also be said to 



13 

be the peculiar seat of these functions, which, how- 
ever, are distribated in a very uneciual maaner over 
its different regions. 

Reception of External Impremona. — ^The skin and 
mucous membranes appear everywhere fitted by their 
nervous supply to receive impressions, which, being 
conveyed to the nervous centre, may there excite a 
reflection of stimulus along motor nerves, without 




An&TOKT OF THE Thboat.— Showing, /, the poiterior nareB ; the 
cdls of the sphsnoid ; i^ the mft )islate ; e, the uvala ; b, the positioQ 
of the tonub j c, the anterior palatine arch ; a, tile tongue ; k, the 
QDder lip, and part of the windpipe. 

the intervention of consciousn^s. Common sensa- 
tion, or that which in its most exalted form becomes 
touch, exists in all parts of the cutaneous surface, 
within the mouth, for some distance within the 
nostrils, and (with the exception of the pharynx and 




14 

oesophagus) in general, wherever the epithelium is of 
the true scaly variety. Where the sense of touch 
is most perfect, the simple membrane is observed to- 
be involuted into the form of papillae for the purpose 
of crowding a larger number of nervous loops into a 
given space. Taste and smeUy which are nearly allied to 
touch, are the other special senses of which the mucous 
system is the seat. The sensations of hunger and thirst 
seem also referrible to this tissue. The loss of taste 
and smell is early noticed in this type of deafness. 

Breathing with difficulty through the nose is early 
complained of as causing much discomfort and incon- 
venience. Many will be found subject to this annoy- 
ance ; and a much greater amount of disorder is pro- 
duced by such a condition than has hitherto been, 
considered. The affection to which I refer depends 
on chronic thickening of the mucous surface, which, 
throughout the windings of the nasal cavities and 
passages, goes by the name of the olfactory membrane. 
This thickening often exists to such an extent as to 
block up the passage of the nose entirely, and thus 
obstruct the principal channel through which respira- 
tion is, or ought to be, performed, as well as impede 
the performance of various other functions which 
will presently be adverted to. Owing to the great 
difference in the calibre of the nasal passage in dif- 
ferent persons, it happens that in some the slightest 
tumefaction will cause obstruction, while in others 
the passage is so large that the disease may exist 
without much annoyance. It may at first appear 



15 

improbable that this kind of diffused enlargement of 
the mucous membrane, throughout all the cavities of 
the nose, will obstruct the passage entirely. 

Many cases are common in which there is a 
thickening of the nasal membrane to such an extent, 
that although it does not produce entire stoppage, yet 
the impediment is increased so as to render it com- 
plete, whenever the membrane is additionally swollen 
by this chronic deposition. Here the difficulty in 
the breathing, especially in attempts to sleep, becomes 
quite as distressing. 

The voice also becomes much affected, the back 
part of the nasal meatus being converted into a shut 
chamber, by which the sounds produced in the mouth 
and throat acquire a nasal resonance and timbre, 
which make the voice more distorted and muffled. 

There is generally experienced in these cases a 
difficulty in hawking mucus from the back of the 
throat and the posterior nares, from the inability of 
drawing air up freely behind the velum paJati. I have 
seen cases in which a difficulty is observed in ex- 
pectoration. From the same cause there is frequently 
a difficulty and even an impossibility of blowing the 
nose, which is excessively inconvenient and disagree^ 
able, even causing pain. 

The effects of this kind of obstruction to the sense 
of smell are very perceptible. Without the power of 
inspiring through the nose, we lose in great measure 
the capability of drawing odorous particles within the 
sphere of the olfactory nerve. In addition to the. 



16 

difficulty thus occasioned, it is certain that a tolerably 
healthy state of the mucous membrane is necessary 
for the proper exercise of this sense. Common catarrh 
may be taken as an instance, in which the obstruction 
caused by this kind of irregular swelling of the mucous 
surface, and the alteration in the secretion from the 
nasal or Schneiderian membrane, either blunts or tem- 
porarUy destroys the olfactory sense. Those persons in 
whom the nose is permanently obstructed by thicken- 
ing of the mucous membrane are in much the same 
situation, as in addition to the simple obstruction, the 
secretion of mucus is generally disordered either by 
excess or deficiency. 

Besides the unpleasant effects on the expression of 
the face, the respiration, the voice, and the sense of 
smell, there is one other circumstance to which I would 
direct particular attention from its being a novel view 
of a subject to which less importance has hitherto been 
attached than it deserves — namely, the connexion of 
nasal obstructions with defective hearing. 

I have seen and treated many cases, in which 
deafness appeared to depend solely on nasal obstruc- 
tion from adipose deposit. 

That the presence of air is necessary in the tym- 
panum, and also that the air should not differ greatly 
in temperature from the air on the external surface of 
the membrane of the tympanum, is obvious. The means 
by which these requirements are provided for, are well 
known to be the Eustachian tubes ; but I believe, in 



17 

addition to this, a free state of the nasal passage is a ne- 
cessary auxiliary, and that without it the function of the 
Eustachian canal cannot be properly performed. This 
viewis supported by the anatomical position of the mouth 
of the tube, which points towards the external nasal 
aperture, and is directly in the line of the passage of 
air through the nose both in inspiration and expiration. 
Further, there is the trumpet-shaped extremity of the 
tube, and its direction, obliquely backwards to reach 
the middle ear, which favours, and appears to provide 
for, the entrance of air to the tympanum in inspiration 
rather than in expiration. It is not that simple stop- 
page of the nasal passages can cause deafness, because 
the nose may be closed without producing the slightest 
immediate effect on the hearing ; but I consider that 
when the nose is, from the cause alluded to, obstructed, 
the want of a free circulation of air in the tympanum 
lessens the sensibility and acuteness of the auditory 
organ, and favours accumulation of mucus in the 
middle ear. Air enters the Eustachian tube and 
middle ear to a still greater extent in sneezing, an act 
in which the communication between the air tubes 
and the mouth is sometimes shut off by closure of the 
posterior palatine arches, so that the breath passes 
upwards, and escapes by the nostrils alone. There is 
in sneezing also a violent preliminary inspiration, 
which generally drives air up the Eustachian tubes 
vnth. considerable force. Hence it occurs that yawning 
and sneezing are occasionally the means of relieving 

c 



18 

or curing deafness, dependent on obstruction of the 
passages leading from the posterior nares to the ear, 
the sudden rush of air breaking up and expelling any- 
inspissated mucus that may have accumulated therein. 

I venture to say that the cases of this kind mentioned 
in this essay constitute one of the improvements of 
aural medicine ; and, with a recent author,* I think it 
may be stated in the affirmative that modern medicine 
has kept pace with the times, being not only directly 
applicable in cases of this description, but in many 
others indicating a most important principle in re- 
coveries hitherto too much neglected by the medical 
profession — viz., rational treatment of diseases which, 
when further studied, will be better understood. 

The loss of the olfactory function is a very early 
symptom complained of in this type of diseased action ; 
but it is not until its insidious progress towards the 
ear, producing dulness of hearing, or partial deafness, 
that notice is taken of it by the patient : the difficulty 
of breathing freely through the nose producing mean- 
while great discomfort and inconvenience. Some will 
have suffered from this chronic enlargement of the 
mucous membrane for years, often existing to such an 
extent as to entirely close the nasal cavity, particularly 
when aggravated by cold or catarrh ; the voice is fre- 
quently muffled and nasal in tone from the progressive 
deposition towards the soft palate: then follows a 



* Corsby, " Hunterian Oration." 



19 

difficulty in expectoration or clearing the tliroat of 
the mucus, or even an impossibility of blowing the 
nose without pain or neuralgic inconvenience. 

The symptoms by which we may early recognise 
this type of deafness are the following. They are 
presented to the aural practitioner generally for the 
relief of a disagreeable — to use a very significant ex- 
pression — " stuffiness " in the outer ear, supposed to 
be a collection of wax. We generally learn that a 
prolonged syringing has been practised for its cure. 
This proceeding can have no avail in a defect of 
this nature, which is certain of further displacing 
the already thickened membrane of the drum, and 
aggravating the evil it was intended to relieve. 
Although simple in its character, this operation 
is sometimes in these cases attended with pain and 
inconvenience, often disappointing both surgeon and 
patient. A cursory examination by the speculum will 
decide that the canal is not only free from any obstruc-? 
tion, but generally dry, and the membrane of the 
drum concave. It is well to bear this in mind before 
any such interference is adopted in these cases. 

Quite recently I had under my care two very well-, 
marked cases : one that of an elderly clergyman, and 
the other that of a female, both exceedingly corpu- 
lent. The usual symptoms were very significant and 
progressive : first, an uneasy, sensation of the nasal 
passages and root of the nose, huskiness of voice, and 
a gradual inconvenience in the act of swallowing 

c2 



^0 

from the naso-palatine membrane enlarging and sweU- 
Ing, and the consequent increase in the size of the 
tonsils and uvula. All these effects might be antici - 
pated, when we consider the glandular arrangement of 
the parts, and how much these glands sympathize in 
the general disorder of the system. As regards the 
progress of the disease towards the internal portions 
6f the ear, we know by the continuous surface it must 
partially, and in some cases totally, obstruct the Eus- 
tachian passages, progressing gradually to the tym- 
panum, producing a defect in the hearing, or partial 
deafness, and a disagreeable buzzing sound, on one 
or both sides of the head. 

Local treatment in each of these cases had been vigo- 
rously adopted, not only by the removal of the tonsils, 
but by other manipulations, which, as might have 
been expected, had failed in reUeving the symptoms ; 
while, on the contrary, the cure was apparently evi- 
dent in the adoption of the regiminal dietary— which 
will be referred to more at length, more especially 
in reference to the nature and cause of corpulence. 

It may be also observed that in those cases in which 
the secretion in the nasal passage is profuse, the deaf- 
ness is not pronounced, and a temporary relief is 
obtained by the use of the handkerchief. 

It is satisfactory to observe how in each case the 
senses sympathized in the treatment : first, the return 
of the olfactory functions, and then the extension of 
the hearing distance, after the absorption of the 



21 

adipose tissue permeating the canals in which these 
organs of sense are seated. 

I will just summarize the foregoing observations by 
adding that these glands are not unfrequently th^ 
seats of other morbid changes, which cause great 
trouble to the patient. The first of these changes 
is the production of an excessive quantity of viscid 
mucus ; the second, the formation and discharge 
of a pus-like fluid ; and the third is the retention of 
either of the secretions in the cavities of the glands, 
and its conversion into foetid, cheesy masses, which 
are from time to time extruded through the nose or 
mouth. 

The presence of this naso-palatine gland disease 
may be inferred from the following symptoms : — ^Dis- 
comfort, aching, or pain in the neighbourhood of the 
soft palate^ and posterior nares ; tingling or sense of 
fulness about the root of the nose ; frontal headache ; 
a mawkish or foetid taste in the back of the mouth ; 
a thick mucous, purulent, or cheesy secretion, dis- 
charged at intervals, chiefly through the mouth, by 
means of snorting nasal inspirations, followed by 
hawking, perversions of taste and smell, alterations of 
voice, and temporary deafiiess, from obstruction of one 
or both Eustachian tubes. The presence of this disease 
can be demonstrated by rhinoscopic examination. 

" The simple hypertrophy of the adenoid layer of 
the pharynx, without the formation of vegetations, 
may e^t, as, for example, in the recessus or sinuses 



22 

which are then filled np by the same brittle structure, 
and seem to be altogether absent. 

** When these adenoid vegetations are present, the 
surrounding mucous membrane is often in a morbid 
condition. 

" Thus, the mucous lining of the posterior wall of 
the ond part of the pharynx is oft;en swollen, or is 
covered with enlarged follicles, or with vertical 
folds, or exhibits the granular condition known as 
pharyngitis granulosa. The granulations found in 
this latter disease vary in size, and the largest some- 
times resemble in shape and consistence those soft 
cushion-like excrescences which I mentioned as oc- 
curring in the lower part of the posterior wall of the 
naso-pharyngeal cavity. 

" The pharyngeal granulations have recently been 
examined by E. Wagner, and have beep found to 
be also composed of adenoid tissue. Consequently 
the cushion-like vegetations may be considered as 
transitory forms between the larger excrescences and 
the granulations of the visible part of the pharynx. 

*' In these cases the tonsils are oft;en in a state of 
chronic enlargement, and more or less hardened. 

" The soft palate and its arches are frequently thick- 
ened, approximated to the posterior wall of the fauces, 
and deficient in mobility. 

" Lastly, the mucous lining of the nasal cavity is 
found in many cases swollen and reddish, although in 
extreme cases its secretion is decidedly deficient. 



23 

" These morbid conditions of the mucous membrane, 
however, are necessary concomitants or sequeLe of 
adenoid vegetations, and vice versa. Still, it is rare 
to find the fauces and nares in a normal state when 
great numbers of vegetations exist, showing that the 
latter are, at least in some measure, due to the same 
influences which give rise to a chronic inflammatory 
state of the whole superior portion of the respiratory 
passages. 

" Symptoms. — It is obvious that the symptoms 
caused by the presence of adenoid vegetations must 
vary according to the number and size of these as 
well as to the locality in which they are situated. 

'* If they are few in number and smalli the symptoms 
may be wanting entirely ; if, on the other hand, the 
growths are so exuberant as to completely close up 
the air-passage through the nose, the symptoms are 
marked. The patient will be compelled to keep the 
mouth open, the nose thereby gradually collapsing 
and growing thin ; the pronunciation will assume the 
" dead" character, for the voice loses its resonance in 
the naso-pharyngeal cavity, and it is perfectly impos- 
sible to pronounce clearly the nasal sounds. Finally, 
the expansion of the growths may cause the sensation 
of a foreign body behind the posterior nares." — ^Dr. 
Meyer. 

All the observations that I have hitherto made 
warrant me in saying that " throat deafness" is more 
frequently due to ear disease than to .enlargement of 



^. 



24 

the tonsil. The two are not uncommonly associated ; 
but I have no satisfactory evidence that they are 
necessarily related. 

Naso-palatine gland disease is locally difficult to 
cure. I have tried many plans of treatment with vary- 
ing success. The one which has answered the best is as 
follows : — The naso-pharyngeal membrane is irrigated 
with a solution of chlorate of potash several times 
daily for a week; then a very strong solution of 
nitrate of silver is applied to the naso-palatine 
surface by means of a brush, fastened to a properly 
bent handle, and the application repeated two or three 
times at intervals of two or three days ; and lastly, 
the nose and throat are again irrigated by a weak 
solution of tannic acid or alum. In beginning their 
use, it is a point of practical importance that they 
should be very weak; when necessary increasing 
their strength, which should be done slowly and by 
degrees. 

Irrigation is done by putting the nostrils under 
the surface of the irrigating fluids and drawing it 
through the posterior nares into the mouth. In this 
way the remedial agent is brought into direct contact 
with the diseased surface. The operation, difficult to 
perform at first, and, when performed, painful, soon 
ceases to be in any way a trouble to the patient. I 
regret to have to add„ that in ordinary cases I have 
found benefit only from constitutional treatment with 
regulated, diet. It is otherwise with the enlarged 



25 

tonsil, which sometimes resumes its normal condi- 
tion under the influence of iodide or bromide of potas- 
sium, iron and alkalies ; local applications alone are 
unsuccessful. But I may here repeat, that steaming 
or fumigating has, in my experience, the most bene- 
ficial influence on this troublesome affection. 

Much discussion of late has taken place on the 
function of the olfactory nerve, and I venture to 
digress a little in order to offer a few observations 
with reference to it, since it is so frequently presented 
to the aural surgeon in connexion with deafness. 
Hearing, taste, and smell act so constantly together, 
that we not unfrequently confound them. 

As this nerve has not been investigated, with any par- 
ticular reference to disease, since the memorable paper 
of Sir C. Bell, I consider it may be of interest to state 
some of the more recent points of the argument. Cases 
are not unfrequently presented to the aural surgeon 
of deafness arising from injury to the head, and as a 
consequence, loss of smell and taste — the olfactory 
function generally being lost on one side prior to that 
of taste. I have a case under my treatment at 
present of a young man who, while in a state of 
intoxication, fell on the back part of his head. 
He states that on his recovery in the morning, to 
his surprise and sorrow, he found his smell lost, 
a defect in his hearing; and subsequently, loss of 
taste. The aroma of wines, or any pungent articles- 
ammonia, onions, snuff — are quite lost to him, and 




26 

have no effect on the olfactory nerve. He can recognise 
the taste of salt, bitters, acids, &c. ; but this only as 
these articles descend over the back part of the tongue. 
There is no paralytic symptom otherwise, nor loss of 
appetite. The tactile sensibility of the nostril is normal 
in progression. Afterwards a partial deafness followed 
on both sides : however, this is not often the case, 
one generally being the most affected, although, 
mutatis mutandis y the same pathological phenomena 
are observed ; the concussion and congestion in the 
one case following the blow, though we had the 
insidious deposit of adipose material filling up the 
olfactory canals in the one I am now considering. 

The other was that of a man, over sixty, who for 
years together had disease in his ear, which was 
followed by facial paralysis, which remains permanent 
on the paralysed side. 

The other cases are from facial palsy, the result of 
long-continued ear disease, and in each case the loss 
of smell was total on one side of the nostril ; on 
the other partial. In a deeply-interesting paper 
by Dr. W. Ogle, recorded in the " Medico-Chirur- 
gical Transactions " for 1870, the author records 
five cases of anosmia^ or loss of smell, arising from 
injury or disease of the head. But I see no 
reason why, in the * same order, although not 
in degree, it may not arise from disease in the 
mucous membrane — the result of an excess of 
fatty deposit, and permeating the cells of the 



27 

olfactory apparatus. The anatomical arrangement 
will, I tliink, support it, as we know that the 
anterior brain rests directly upon the bones of the 
skull, and is not separated from them, as is the case 
elsewhere, by the interior portion of fluid. This gives 
additional facility for the formation of the adipose 
material in the cells of the olfactory organ, and thus 
disturbing the function of «mell. In my own expe- 
rience this has been so repeatedly observed that no 
difficulty arises as to the understanding of the various 
symptoms; and therefore the treatment follows of 
course. 

Taste and smell generally are combined, but if we 
use taste in the popular sense, it is easy to understand 
how a blow, which is not sufficiently violent to do 
serious mischief to the anterior brain generally, may 
still suffice to tear the olfactory nerves, owing to their 
very small size, and their excessive softness. In only 
one recorded case of loss of smell from a blow on the 
head have I found mention of the exact part struck. 
The blow was on the occiput. 

It will have been noticed that in each of these cases 
ihe patient complained of having lost taste as well as 
smell, there being no difficulty in recognising either 
acid, bitter, sweet, or saline. Pure taste is limited to 
the perception of these few qualities ; and any additional 
perceptions than tactile which food may give us, are 
derived not from taste, but from the much wider sense 
of smell, and are due to irritation of the ol&ctory 






/^ 



28 

nerves. We are ao accustomed to the combination of 
simolianeous gustatory and olfactory impressions that 
we have come to look on the two as one, and, in popular 
langu^e, have confused them together. But disease 
splits this compound sensation of flarour into its con- 
stituents, and leaves the olfactory, or the gustatory 
element to stand by itself, according as the latter or 
the former set of nerves have been injured. So much 
larger a share of the compound is due to smell than 
to taste, that when a man has lost the former he 
thinks, as in these cases, that he has lost both; 
whereas, if smell remain, and true taste alone be lost 
— as sometimes occurs — the patient is almost regard- 
less of his changed condition. 

Doubtless we see from time to time cases which seem 
to stand in contradiction with the view Dr. Ogle had 
taken of the nature of flavour. These are cases in 
which the sense of smell, as tested by the application 
of odoriferous substances to the nostrils, seems entirely 
lost, while, notwithstanding this, the perception of 
flavour remains in comparative integrity. It is the 
existence of such cases which has caused physiological 
writers, as a rule, to define so hazily the limits of phy- 
sical taste. 

The cases are, however, not difficult to explain. It 
will invariably be found in them that the olfactory 
nerves and region are sound, and that there is a free 
access for odours to this latter through the posterior 
nares, while some hindrance or other prevents the 



29 

odours reaching it from the anterior nostrils ; in other 
words, the sense of smell in these cases is not lost, 
but defects in the accessory mechanism prevent its 
being exercised in one of the usual ways, while they 
do not prevent its being exercised in another. 

There are two modes in which we purposely smell 
at a substance. In the one we close the mouth and 
then take a long deep inspiration through the nostrils. 
During the inspiration the nostrils are widely dilated, 
so as to give as free an entrance as possible to the jair- 
current. This, charged with odour, sweeps over the 
whole internal surface of the nose, the olfactory 
region included, and excites a sensation proportionate 
to its own intensity and velocity. 

The second method is not quite so simple, but 
much more efficacious. Here, as before, we close the 
mouth, but instead of then taking one long deep 
nasal inspiration, we draw in the air by a rapid sue 
cession of short, shallow, but forcible "sniffs." If 
the nostrils be watched during the process, it wiU be 
seen that, so far from dilating as before, they actually 
contract at each " sniff," and a little attention will 
show that the contraction does not include the whole 
anterior opening, but only its posterior portion. At 
the same moment the cartilaginous sides of the nose 
may be seen to undergo lateral compression by the 
action of the compressor naris muscle ; and by this 
compression, which is most strongly marked in the 
part answering to the small sesamoid cartilages, the 



30 

sides are brought slightly nearer to each other, and of 
course also to the central septum. 

If the explanation I have offered be correct, it is 
plain how facial palsy must interfere with volun- 
tary olfaction. With the first method, it interferes 
by preventing active dilatation of the nostrils ; with the 
second, by preventing the lateral compression which 
is required to close the respiratory channel. At the 
same time, it will not materially interfere with the 
perception of flavours, for there is no hindrance to the 
passage of odours from the mouth upwards through 
the posterior nares. 

Besides these cases of facial palsy, there is yet 
another class of cases, by no means uncommon, in 
which the perception of flavour remains, while the 
perception of odours by the anterior nostril is lost. 

Here, again, we have an apparent contradiction 
to the statement that flavour is chiefly derived 
from smell. It is, however, not difficult to find an 
explanation. We have only to suppose, what is in 
itself highly probable, that the Schneiderian mem-, 
brane has been so thickened by chronic inflammation 
as to bring the septum into contact with the middle 
turbinated bone, a result which, we have already seen, 
would require only an excessively slight thickening 
of the membrane; and secondly, that this thickening 
has not only thus cut off the olfactory from the re- 
spiratory channel, but that it has also obstructed the 
former and narrower of the two, the obstruction being 




81 

of snch a kind as entirely to prevent the passage of air 
inwards, while it allows of the passage of air out- 
wards. We must suppose that the projecting fold of 
membrane acts as a valve. That this is the case, is 
rendered almost certain by the fact that the expira- 
tion through the nose is much more free than is the 
inspiration. 

Supposing, then, that this very probable anatomical 
lesion has been left as the result of chronic coryza, 
the apparent contradiction will be fully explained. 
The power of smelling through the anterior nostrils 
is gone, because there is no access through these to 
the olfactory region. The perception of flavours 
remains, because there is a free passage to this region 
from the mouth through the posterior nares. 

Such facts, then, as these establish the opinion that 
flavour is almost entirely due to smell. On the other 
hand, other cases show that the only damage done 
was to the olfactory nerves, and did not include the 
gustatory or the glosso-pharyngeal. 

Cases occasionally occur in which the soft palate 
adheres to the posterior wall of the pharynx so as to 
cut off all communication between mouth and nasal 
cavities. When this happens, not only is the power 
of smelling through the nostrils gone, but with it is 
lost also the perception of flavours in the mouth, 
though both nerves of taste and nerves of smell are 
in their integrity. When the communication is 
established, either spontaneously or by the surgeon's 



32 

aid, the perception of flavours and odours is at 
once restored. An example of this state of things I 
have recently had the opportunity of examining, 
through the kindness of Mr. Coulson, whose patient 
the man was, and one under my own treatment at the 
present time has been equally successful. 

" Further, a correspondence between the degree of nasal 
pigmentation and the keenness of smell may, I think, 
be detected even in white individuals, by comparing 
one period of life with another. The olfactory sense 
is apparentlj^ but feeble in youth, children being noto- 
riously dull in the perception of flavours, which, as 
already said, are chiefly derived from smell ; whereas 
their perceptions of taste afe as keen as those of 
adults, sweets attracting them, and bitters, salts, and 
acids being, as a rule, repugnant to their palates. 
Now, in all young animals the nasal pigmentation is 
much less intense than is the case in adults. So 
that here again the olfactory incompetence . may 
not unreasonably be attributed to the deficiency of 
pigment.'** 

And this assumption is borne out by the observed 
fact that such a connexion does in reality exist 



* Single examples are not worth much. Still it is interesting to 
note that Mohammed, the only historical personage, so far as I 
know, who was renowned for the excessive sensitiveness of his 
smell, was also remarkable for the deep blackness of his eyes and 
of his hair. His head, '^ even in advanced age, was sprinkled by 
only about twenty grey hairs." — See " Quarterly Keview," October, 
1869, page 303. 




33 

between the pigment of the eye and that of the 
neighbouring skin. For it has been stated by 
Geoflfroy St. Hilaire, that in what are called " pied** 
negroes — ^that is, in negroes whose skin has become 
white in patches — ^the eyes are ordinarily without pig- 
ment if the skin of the ocular region be white ; and, 
on the other hand, that if the skin of this part retain 
its ordinary tint, so also do the eyes. This persis- 
tence, then, of pigment about those parts of the skin 
from which the nasal cavities are developed, supplies 
another argument in favour of the view I am advo- 
cating. Examples of such persistence are endless. 
I may recal the well-known instances of black-faced 
sheep and black-faced cattle. 

Neither of these are, however, what is called albino ; 
for in both abundant pigment is present in the eyes. 
A more complete illustration is furnished by certain 
rabbits. In the variety known as Himalayan, not 
only is the skin and fur of the most snowy white, but 
the eyes are of the brightest pink. 

Tet, even in these albinos, there are invariably 
patches of dark colour on the nose and ears. Know- 
ing, as we do, how important a part is played by pig- 
ment in vision, we should have expected that the 
eye would have been the last part to surrender its 
colouring matter ; whereas we find that, although 
very persistent there, the pigment is still more persis- 
tent in the nose and ears. 

We now come to the final question — Is there any 

D 



84 

(conceivable mode in which we can imagine the olfac- 
tory pigment to affect the reception of olfactory im- 
pressions? In-the eye we can partly understand how 
the pigment may act, but in the nose no obvious 
explanation is at hand. 

There are, however, some observed facts respecting 
odours which, I think, may perhaps give us a clue. 
It has been noticed by several writers that dark 
substances absorb odours much more readily than do 
light ones. 

" I have now nearly finished what I have to say of 
smell. I cannot, however, refrain from pointing out 
briefly that there seem to me to exist some grounds 
for believing that pigment plays a part even in the 
reception of auditory impressions. 

" First, in the membranous labyrinth black pigment 
J is found in varying amounts. As to the exact position 
of this pigment in man, and its relation to the ulti- 
mate nervous organs, nothing accurate has been ascer- 
tained. But in the labyrinth of certain fishes, the 
arrangement has been made out, and it is of impor- 
tance to note that the relation here of the pigment to 
the ultimate nerve organs is identically the same as 
exists in the olfactory region of higher animals ; so 
that the diagram of the one organ will almost stand 
for a diagram of the other. In each the ultimate 
nerve organs consist of certain cellular prolongations, 
and in each, interposed between these ultimate nerve 
organs, are pigmented epithelium cells. This simi- 



85 

larity of arrangement renders it highly probable that 
there is also some similarity of function. So that, if 
it be admitted that the pigment in the nose serves any 
purpose, it will be highly probable that the pigment 
in the labyrinth serves a like use. Secondly, we find 
^among mammalia generally, the same tendency to 
retention of pigment in the skin of the ears, which I 
have already pointed out as existing about the nostrils ; 
and the membranous labyrinth is developed by an 
involution of this external integument. Thirdly, in 
some animals there does most certainly exist a strange 
connexion between the amount of pigment in th6 
body and the sense of hearing. Sichel pointed out 
many years ago, and Mr. Darwin made the fact gene- 
rally known, that cats with pure white skin and blue 
eyes are almost invariably deaf. Should the perfect 
white be marred by a single blotch of colour, then the 
dea&ess is absent ; or even should, a kitten bom with- 
out pigment, and therefore deaf, develope pigment at 
a later period, the deafness will cease. A white kitten 
was found by Sichel to be quite deaf When it was 
four months old, the iris began to assume a darker 
tint, and with the development of pigment came, also, 
the sense of hearing/' 

Lastly, abnormal pigmental constitution is known to 
be frequently associated with partial or complete deaf- 
ness. Dr. Laycock observed five cases of such asso- 
ciation in a single family ; and out of two hundred 
and forty-one deaf mutes at Berlin, Liebreich found no 

1)2 



86 

fewer than fourteen to be afflicted with comparatively 
rare pigmental disease. 

It would appear, then, not improbable that the 
organs of three main senses — sight, smell, hearing — 
require each, for the full performance of its function, 
the presence of pigment. One cannot, therefore, but 
be inclined to inquire whether they may not want it 
for some common purpose. In each of the organs 
the pigment is not contained within the nerve 
structures themselves, but lies external to these, and in 
immediate contiguity with their ultimate elements. 
Thus, in the eye, it is in contact with the cones and 
rods of the retina ; in the nose, in contact with the 
olfactory cell processes ; in the aural ampullae, with 
similar cell processes, with the terminal bodies of the 
auditory nerve. 

Now, in the case of the eye, Professor Draper 
has argued, that the image is not formed, as is 
usually said, upon the transparent retina, but on 
the screen of black pigment which lies behind. By 
this he believes the rays of light to be absorbed 
•and converted into vibrations of heat, so that what 
was at . first a light-picture, is now, so to speak, 
a heat-picture, in which each different shade and 
colour is represented by a different degree of tem- 
perature. " In this local disturbance of tempera- 
ture,** in his opinion, "the act of vision com- 
mences. The club-shaped particles of Jacob's mem- 
brane being truly tactile organs, communicate to the 



37 

sensory surface of the retina the condition of tem- 
perature of the black pigment/* Doubtless, this view 
of Professor Draper's is not the current one. Admit- 
ting it, however, to be true, one cannot but ask whether 
a similar function may not attach to the similarly 
placed pigment of the nose and ear — whether this also 
may not serve to absorb vibrations of odour and of 
sound, and to convert them into vibrations of heat, 
which will aflTect the contiguous cells, in which, as we 
have seen, the olfactory and auditory nerves find their 
termination. 

" This claims, of course, to be no more than a specu- 
lation, and even as such is open to one manifest 
objection. Physicists do not recognise the existence 
of any relation between the pigmentation of substance 
and its power of absorbing sounds. To this, how- 
ever, I would reply that physicists, to the best of my 
belief, have not yet experimented on the matter, and 
that it is not impossible that such a relation may 
exist undiscovered, because unlooked for : just as a 
similar relation between pigmentation and the absorp- 
tion of odours has lain for ages unsuspected, and there- 
fore unknown/' 

Mr. Lewes, in his " Physiology of Common Life/' 
has the following observations, which I quote here 
in support of the foregoing paragraphs : — 

" The Sense of Smell. — The organ of smell is situated 
in the upper part of the interior of the nose. This 
much is certain ; but the reader will probably be sur- 



prised to learn tliat serious doubts are permissible as 
to whether the so-caUed olfactory nerves (the first 
pair) are in truth olfactory in function. Let us first 
■ take a general view of the parts supposed to contribute 
to the sense of smell, as represented in fig. 2, after 
Sommering. 

Flo, 3, 




" Prom the base of the brain there issues on each side 
a long process, with a bulb at the end {a and h). This 
process is called the ol^torius. It is no longer re- 
garded as ft nerve, but as a portion of the cerebrum. 
It was thus also that Gblen regarded it, not on very 
accurate knowledge, we must admit ; and till the time 
of "WilliB this opinion prevailed. From WiUis down 
to our own, day the process was considered to be the 
olfactory nerve, until microscopic examination showed 
that it was not a nerve, bat a gangUoaic mass. The 
olfactocy bulb {b) lies upon that part of the skull 



39 

named the cribriform plate. Through the . holes in 
this plate some five-and-twenty smaller processes^ 
called the olfactory filaments (b^) descend, and ramify- 
on the mucous membrane of the nose. 

" To complete our survey of the organ, let us glance 
at the other nerves which enter the nose. At e we 
observe a twig of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth 
nerve, which has nothing to do with the sense of 
smell. At e? is the fifth nerve, and the Grasserian 
ganglion c^ ; and at d its superior maxillary division, 
sending off filaments which anastomose with the 
olfactory filaments. At o there are the twigs which 
supply the palate. 

" All these are nerves ; but whether the olfactory 
filaments are nerves is not, to my mind, absolutely 
ceriiain ; and whether they have aay intrinsic relation 
to the sense of smell is even more dubious. 

" If the olfactory filaments are really nerves, they are 
unlike every other nerve in the body. The bulb is a 
ganglionic mass, but the filaments which descend from 
it are unlike all other nerves issuing from the ganglia. 
They are neither formed of tubular fibres nor sur- 
rounded with the investing membrane (neurilemma), 
such as is found in other nerves, but with a very dif- 
ferent membrane. They consist of a striped granular 
mass, not of distinct fibres. Nuclei are abundantly 
but irregularly scattered through this mass. 

" This peculiarity in the structure of the olfactory 
filaments has been carefully investigated, and likened 



40 

to that of the grey or yekUitums fibres which Bemak 
first discovered intermingled with true nerve fibres 
in the sympathetic system. These fibres, however, 
are by many recent anatomists pronounced to be 
peculiar forms of connective tissue, and not nerve 
fibres. Be this as it may, we must remember that the 
grey fibres only intermingle with ordinary fibres ; they 
do not constitute the whole or greater part of a nerve : 
so that if the olfactory filaments are nerves, they are 
markedly different from all other nerves. Indeed, two 
recent writers, Seebei^ and Erichsen, declare them to 
be formed of connective tissue, and not to be nerves. 
Bidder, their master, holds the same opinion. 

" There is one fact which is almost decisive. We 
know that all nerves degenerate when the ganglion 
with which they are in connexion is destroyed. K, 
therefore, the olfeictory filaments were nerves, they 
ought to degenerate after destruction of the bulb, and 
as they do not degenerate after destruction of the bulb, 
it is almost certain that they are not nerves.'' 

Having thrown doubts on the nature of the olfac- 
tory nerves, I must now proceed to throw doubts on 
their olfactory function. The doubts are by no means 
new. Magendie thought he had proved by experi- 
ments that smell persisted after the nerves had been 
destroyed ; but his experiments have been rejected, as 
proving nothing. Magendie said it would be impor- 
tant to ascertain whether the congenital absence of the 
olfactory nerves was coincident with the absence of 



41 

smelL " I do not know/* he added, " that any such 
case has been observed." Hereupon, Longet replies 
with triumph, "In my 'Treatise on the Nervous 
System/ vol. ii. p. 38, may be read cases reported 
by Schneider, BosenmiiUer, Cerutti, Valentin, and 
Pressat, in which the complete absence of smell 
coincided with a congenital absence of the olfactory 
nerves/'* This answer seemed very conclusive to 
M. Longet, and may seem so to the reader until he 
reflects that the fact of a function being absent at 
the same time that a particular organ is absent, is 
no proof of a direct and absolute relation between 
the two ; whereas if one case can be adduced in which 
the function was present, and this particular organ 
absent^ that is categorical proof of the function not 
being dependent on the organ. One such positive 
would outweigh a hundred negatives. Magendie 
cited one case in which disease had entirely destroyed 
the olfactory nerves, without destroying the sense of 
smelL 

But B^rard, who communicated the case, subse- 
quently came to the conclusion '' that the information 
respecting the olfactory sensibflity of this patient, 
having been collected after the destruction of the 
nerves was ascertained, is far from reliable, and, I am 

convinced, was false.*'! 
In cases of disease we are never certain as to the 



♦ Longet, " Traite de Physiol.," u. 278, f Ibid. 



42 

precise eflfects, for we can never be certain as to the 
extent of the organic interference. But in cases of 
congenital deficiency we sometimes meet with instruc- 
tive evidence ; and on this very subject we can bring 
forward a case which has all the characters demanded 
by rigorous scrutiny, and reported by an authority of 
the highest eminence, Claude Bernard. When he was 
Magendie's assistant at the College de France, he 
commenced the dissection of the head of a woman who 
had died of consumption in the hospital. On opening 
the skuU he was startled to find a complete absence 
t)f the olfactory nerves. Closer investigation showed 
that in all respects the brain was of the normal struc- 
ture, its membranes and vessels normal, and the origin 
of all the other nerves perfectly regular ; but of olfac- 
tory nerve, or bulb, there was not a trace. This was 
not a case of absence from disease, but of congenital 
malformation. This interesting anatomical specimen 
is still preserved in the College de France ; and a 
figure, representing the brain and the base of the 
skuU, is given by M. Bernard * 

In the presence of such a remarkable fact as this, 
M. Bernard naturally sought its physiological inter- 
pretation. He went to the persons with whom the 
young woman had lived for the last six months, and, 
without giving them any clue as to the object of his 
questions, interrogated them minutely respecting her 
modes of Hfe, and her likes and dislikes, taking especial 



Claude Bernard, " Syst^me Nerveux," ii. 232. 



43 

care to draw the conversatioH to topics which would 
eUcit details respecting her sense of smell. From 
them he learned that "Marie found the odour of 
tobacco insupportable/* and that " particularly in the 
morning, when she came into the room in which any- 
one had been smoking over-night, her first act was 
to open the window to let out the unpleasant smell of 
stale tobacco — la mauvais odeur depipe renfermS.'* He 
learned also that she frequently complained of the 
foetid smeU of a closet which was near her room ; and 
that for six weeks she officiated as cook, tasting 
sauces, &c., and being rather distinguished for her 
skill at it. 

It is impossible to escape the conclusion that Marie 
really did possess the sense of smell, unless we sup- 
pose a conspiracy on the part of all these persons to 
state what they knew to be fabe — a conspiracy as in- 
credible as it would have been idle. Even assuming 
an exaggeration in their statements, the particulars 
are such as force our belief that some degree of smell 
must have been manifested ; and the presence of even 
a feeble function, in the complete absence of olfactory 
nerves, is enough to prove that the function in ques- 
tion cannot be that of those nerves. For observe, it 
is not a case of degree we have here ; it is not a case 
of olfactory nerves partially destroyed, or incom- 
pletely destroyed; it is a case of entire absence of 
those nerves, ganglion and all ; yet with this entire 
absence there is unequivocal evidence of the sense of 
smell being present. 



44 

M. Bernard remarks*, that in no case hitherto re- 
corded has the absence of olfactory nerves been pre* 
dieted from the imperfection of the sense of smell, and 
this prediction subsequently found to be accurate, but 
that after the anatomical fact has been discovered, 
men have sought for proofs of the absence of a sense 
of smell in what nurses or relatives could narrate. 
*' If," he says, " any one case can be shown me in 
which, during life, the physician has observed absence 
of the sense, and predicted a corresponding absence of 
the nerves, which prediction has subsequently been 
verified, I will willingly hold my case to be insignifi- 
cant. No such case, however, exists." M. Bernard 
here seems to me more ready to concede the insignifi- 
cance of his case than the philosophy justifies. How- 
ever great a presumption might be founded on 
the successfiil prediction, it would still be very far 
below the value of such a case as that recorded by 
him. 

This inquiry into the organ of smell has only in- 
terest for the student ; the general reader must pardon 
its introduction — ^a pardon he can the more easily 
grant, since he has probably skipped the paragraphs 
devoted to the inquiry. Enough, then, if we know 
that the mucous membrane lining the upper cavity of 
the nose is the seat of smell ; and as this part is also 
furnished with filaments from the fifth pair of nerves, 
we may conclude that these can serve the function of 
smell as their fellows can serve the function of taste. 

The odorous substances are very numerous ; but it 



45 

is indispensable that they should be in a gaseous or 
volatile condition before they can excite the sensation 
of smell. Musk itself, powerful as is its odoriferous 
property, would produce no sensation on the olfactory 
organ, if applied to it in a solid state ; nor can liquids 
produce odours tm they evaporate. Our distinguished 
chemist, Mr. Graham, contributes the following valu- 
able note to Mr. Bain's work on the " Senses and the 
Intellect:"— 

^' Odorous substances are in general such as can 
be readily acted on by oxygen. Tor example, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, one of the most intense of odours, 
is rapidly decomposed in the air by the action of the 
oxygen of the atmosphere. In like manner, the 
odorous hydrocarbons are all oxydisable — the ethers, 
alcohol, and the essential oils that make aromatic per- 
fumes. The gases that have no smell are not acted 
on by oxygen at ordinary temperatures. The marsh 
gas, carburetted hydrogen, is a remarkable case in 
point. This gas has no smell. As a proof of the 
absence of the oxydisable property, Professor Grraham 
has obtained a quantity of the gas from the deep 
mines where it had lain for geological ages, and has 
found it actually mixed up with free oxygen, which 
would not have been possible if there had been the 
smallest tendency for the two to combine. Again, 
hydrogen has no smell, if obtained in the proper cir- 
cumstances ; now the gas, although combining with 
oxygen at a sufficiently high temperature, does not 
combine at any temperature endurable by human 



i 



46 

tissues. It is Airther determined, that unless a stream 
of air containing oxygen pass into the cavities of 
the nostrils along with the odoriferous effluvium, no 
smell is produced. Also, if a current of carbonic acid 
accompanies an odour, the eflfect is arrested. These 
facts go to prove that there is a chemical action at 
work in smell, and that this action consists in the 
combination of the oxygen of the air with the odo- 
rous substances."* 

In few things do human beings differ more widely 
than in their sense of smell ; not only is the acuteness 
of this sense markedly different in different men, but 
of twenty men, having average susceptibility, perhaps 
no two will be found to agree in considering the same 
odours agreeable. Musk is very notoriously offensive 
to many persons; others do not like mignonette; some 
do not recognise any odour at all in a flower con- 
sidered very odorous by others. 

The Iris persica was found by Turner to have a 
pleasant odour by forty-one out of fifty-four persons, a 
disagreeable odour by one, and very little scent by 
four others. Of thirty persons, twenty-three held the 
Anemone nemorosa agreeable in its perfume, and the 
other seven did not think it smelt at all. 

The uses of smell are important, and in animals 
much more so than in man. It is by smell that 
they are guided to their food ; by smell they hunt 



• Bain, « The Senses and the Intellect," p. 163. 



47 

their prey; by smell they recognise each friend 
or foe in the dark. That we are not endowed with 
keenness of scent is probably owing to the com- 
paratively small exercise of that function in civilized 
life. Having so many other avenues of sensation, 
so many other modes of recognising objects, this 
one falls into abeyance, and becomes weakened from 
disuse. But in men with one or more of the other 
senses defective, smell is seen to be an important 
avenue to the mind ; and in savages the keenness of 
scent notoriously surpasses that of civilized noses. 
James Mitchell was born blind, deaf, and dumb : yet 
Iby the smell he at once perceived the entrance of a 
stranger into the room. People who have a strong 
antipathy to cats, detect their presence by the odour 
in circumstances which would be thought impossible. 
A lady in my study one day suddenly remarked, 
" There is a cat in the room." On my assuring her 
there was none, she replied, " Then there is one in the 
passage." I went out to satisfy her. There was no 
cat in the passage ; but on the first landing-stairs, 
looking through the railings, there, sure enough, was 
the cat. 

The nerves which communicate the faculty of smell 
are the first pair, or olfactory. Each nerve expands in 
a bulb on the upper or perforated surface of the 
ethmoid bone, and its fibres proceed through the per- 
forations, and spread themselves upon the membrane. 
It seems, then, that the effluvia from odorous bodies 



A 



48 

act upon the expanded fibres in the nose, and are 
thence conveyed to the brain. By a like provision 
the power of smelling is seated in the entrance of 
the canal of the lungs ; for tbus the organ acts as a 
guard gainst noxious air, as the sensibility of the 
tongue is a guard to the stomach. That our nerves 




Back fabt or the Nosb ih Health. — The Plate sboWB ihe reason 
£» ttie thickened gp»Bch and nasal intonadon in caaea of Corpulence, 
when (be canals ore obstructed with adipose Uuoe. 

are the means of sensation is, from actual experiment, 
beyond dispute, but how they act, and how each class 
communicates its own peculiar sensibility, is a subject 
too mysterious for explanation. 



49 

The throat and mouth, to which reference has before 
been made, sympathize much in this condition of 
the mucous membrane, but it will be unnecessary to 
relate other cases. Some of the* instances already 
recorded will be sufficient to confirm my views on the 
isubject, and the propriety of the treatment which I 
suggest. 

*' That diseases of the nose may be caused or aggra- 
vated by irritation arising from the stomach is a pro- 
position which will, I think, be readily granted. 
In deed, it seems surprising that the operation of this 
cause has been so little adverted to, since the phe- 
nomena which prove the fact are so well known. 

"Are the monstrous noses, caused by excessive 
drinking of vinous and spirituous liquors, to be other- 
wise accounted for than by irritation arising from 
the stomach ? And do not worms in children cause a 
teasing sensation in the extremity of the nose? I 
.have seen in private practice several cases of irritation 
and swelling of the end of the nose, in some instances 
accompanied with small ulcerations of the pituitary 
membrane. In these cases the skin over the nose, 
which was tumid, became rough and discoloured ; the 
middle of the discoloured part became sound, whilst 
the circumference retaining its morbid actions, the 
disease there spread in a small degj-ee. In these cases 
the tongue was furred, and there were evident indi- 
cations of disorder in the stomach and liver. The 
.disease was checked and cured by attention to these 



50 

disorders. I was strongly impressed with the opinion 
that if these cases had been neglected, they would 
have terminated in that herpetic ulceration which so 
often aflTects the end of the nose. I have also seen 
several instances of that herpetic ulceration in its 
confirmed state more materially benefited by medical 
attention to correct the disorder of the digestive 
organs than by any local application, and I feel 
confident that it maybe frequently cured by such 
endeavours." — ^Abernethy, " Local Disorders." 

** I have observed in all the cases of that noisome 
and intractable disease, ozsena, which have come under 
my care lately, that the stomach and bowels have 
been disordered, and more benefit has been obtained 
by endeavouring to bring these organs into a healthy 
state than by all the local applications previously tried. 
I stated to a medical friend my opinions respecting 
one patient who came from the country, and begged 
to know the effect of the treatment which I had pro- 
posed. He informed me after some months that he 
had not been able to succeed in correcting the visceral 
disorder, and after relating the means which had been 
used, he adds : ' The patient was now attacked with 
a bilious disorder, to which she had formerly been 
subject, and for which treatment was adopted. She 
recovered the lost sense of smell and taste.* " 

The eyes, and ears, those outguards for protection, 
lose their acuteness and sensibility, or have their 
physical accuracy deteriorated, and the value of indi- 



51 ^ 

vidual life seems to fail. At this critical period, the 
meridian of life, it behoves the tenant to keep a strict 
watch over needful repairs, and, if he have a skilful 
medical architect, he may then obtain information 
respecting the best materials for keeping his building 
together, and on the fittest cements and supports to 
protect it against approaching storms. 

The preventive art of medicine, and the suitable- 
ness of diet^ are well worth considering, and in the 
autumnal season of life, they will be found to comprise 
the most rational and the most practical resources of 
information. Tor, without fear of contradiction, it 
may be asserted that the wholesome regulation of 
diet is as important as the administration of 
medicine. 

In addition to these exertions of an experienced 
judgment, it is the indispensable duty of a medical 
practitioner to order the diet, and to adapt the special 
articles of food and drink to every vicissitude of 
health or disorder, local and general. 

It is a true maxim in physic, that diseases which 
are long in their advancement are generally only to 
be remedied by lonff continued curative attention. 
Common sense points out the fallacy of expecting to 
eradicate old-established errors of the body by any 
sudden remedies, and the diet or medical regimen of 
such persons should be undeviatingly suited to their 
disordered tendencies. 

Many of the diseases before alluded to, are 

E 2 



62 

happily within the reach of medical skill, if attended 
to in time; but they are generally much more 
easily avoided by prudent regimen and preventive 
methods. 

In speaking of disordered functions, I quote the 
following passage from Sir T. Watson's Lectures, 
vol. i. : — 

" The sense of hearing is liable to analogous dis- 
orders. Sometimes it becomes preternaturally acute ; 
and this is a bad symptom when it does occur. I 
was called a year or two ago to see a gentleman in the 
Temple. He had been taken ill only ^ few hours 
before, but I found him dying. The pulse was gone 
from his wrist, and his skin was cold. His intellect, 
however, was entire, and he complained of nothing but 
the distress he felt from the loud noises that were made 
by those around him in moving about and in speak- 
ing, although, in fact, all noise was as much as pos- 
sible suppressed, and conversation was carried on in 
whispers ; but his hearing was painfully acute. He 
died the same evening, I believe of an irregular form 
of cholera. It is always right that patients should 
be protected from the irritation which might arise 
from this source; for that degree of noise which 
would not interfere with the sleep of a healthy per- 
son, will often not only prevent it in a sick man, but 
will bring on delirium, and aggravate greatly the 
disease under which he labours. The custom of 
strewing the streets with straw before the houses of 



53 

tiiose who are seriously ill is, in many cases, a very 
proper precautionary measure* 

" The opposite fault, obttcseness of hearing, is much 
more common. Deafness is frequently attributable 
to some physical imperfection in the organ of hearing. 
But it is with cases in which it has a deeper origin 
that the physician is chiefly concerned. It often 
occurs in fevers, and is not then thought a bad 
symptom; it is certainly a much less unfavourable 
circumstance than morbid acuteness of hearing, and 
it probably depends upon a disordered state of the 
brain, which is not in itself very dangerous. 

" What is called tinnitm aurium is an instance of the 
depravation of the sense of hearing. It seems some- 
times to result from the too strong throbbing of the 
arteries. It occurs in many disorders, and is not unfre- 
quently a symptom of diseased cerebral vessels, and a 
precursor of apoplexy or palsy. It is sometimes in itself 
extremely annoying. Curious and undefinable sounds 
are heard by some patients — sounds as of a rushing 
wind, as of the falling cataract, the ringing of a bell, 
or the beat of the drum. 

"A female patient of mine in the Middlesex Hospital 
last year, who had disease of the bones of one ear, 
with symptoms that threatened some impUcation of 
the brain, a£Srmed that she heard a perpetual noise in 
her ear like the singing of a tea-kettle. I have lately 
been consulted by a gentleman from the country, who 
had no other complaint than a constant hissing, which 



54 

worried Hm greatly, in one ear. Another had watched 
with curious anxiety, and described to me very graphi- 
cally the successive variations which this troublesome 
symptom underwent in his own person. It began 
suddenly with some headache. At first it was a loud 
roaring, like that of the sea. In a few days it came 
to resemble exactly the whistling of the wind among 
the trees in winter ; afterwards he could have believed 
that the room was filled with humming gnats, and 
finally the noise settled down into the gentle sound 
of a distant waterfall. It haunted him incessantly 
for seven years. Then came an attack of shingles on 
the right side of his head, face, and neck, and the 
noise at once ceased. It left him free for a year and 
a half, and then returned as before. Sir David 
Brewster relates the case of a lady, subject to spectral 
illusions, whose ear was mocked by unreal sounds, as 
her eye by mireal vWoo.. Bebg in her right mind, 
and perfecUy aware of the infideUty of her senses, she 
repeatedly heard, not vague noises merely, but voices 
and sentences when none were uttered. This is far 
from being uncommon. 

" Strange infirmities of the memory there are asso- 
ciated with cerebral disease, and justly to be regarded 
among its symptoms; large blanks in the backward 
gaze ; fitful suspensions of the remembering power ; 
partial glimpses of the past ; resurrections of thoughts 
long buried in oblivion. I speak not of that, natural 
decay of the memory . which is noticeable in most 



55 

persons as age creeps on, and which is one of the 
most affecting of the many warnings then vouchsafed 
to us, that the bodily frame is suffering dilapidation. 
Even of this natural decay there are some curious 
things to be noted. Recent events are retained with 
difficulty and soon forgotten ; while those of older 
date are easily and accurately recalled. This has 
been referred, and rightly I believe, to the differing 
degree of interest, and therefore of attention, which 
the same objects excite in the young and in the old. 
It would seem as if the effort of attention stamped 
characters upon the material fabric, which are deep 
and lasting in the youthful brain, faint and sooner 
effaced in the aged. But disease may revive things 
long forgotten — a language long unspoken and un- 
thought in — or blot out entirely all traces of definite 
portions of time gone by, and even all previous power 
of speech and language. These latter symptoms 
are ofben present in cases of corpulence, and are too 
often neglected by the patient." 

It would be foreign to the objects of this essay 
to enter minutely into the treatment of all the 
various secondary diseases occasionally accompanying 
corpulence. My intention is to refer to such practical 
hints as I have found essentially important, bearing 
in mind that the functions of the liver are primarily 
disturbed, and, in my opinion, temporarily metamor- 
phosed in structure ; to use a phrase to which one of 
the preparations of this organ made by Mr. Kier- 



66 

nan* refers, tHat the liver becomes, while the individual 
is under its excessive influence, an abdominal lung. 

In order to convey exactly what is intended by dis* 
turbance of an organ, I would submit the following. 
The ultimate function of every organ is secretion. 
In health the excitement of this is duly proportioned 
to the want or the expenditure of the individual. If 
the excitant is in excess, the organ may relieve itself 
by increased secretion. If the excess be continued 
the organ on which it impinges will, after a time, 
cease to respond by any increase of secretion, or the 
formation of fat by the increased secretion of carbon 
from an error in diet or food, and wiU either transfer 
the eUminating action or whatever other term you 
may prefer, by inducing action in some other organ 
in compensation, or become itself the seat of struc- 
tural change; in cases of a certain duration — ^both. 
This is how it happens that many kinds of food 
which, under habitually temperate, or even occcmonal 
increase, excite secretion, and are, in this way, made 
useful in many cases of inaction in an organ, become, 
in their abme^ certain excitants of disorder or disease. 
All this is in somewhat different senses true of rich 
food, fat, sugar, alcohol, starch, and all substances 
which hold to other organs the relation which these 
more commonly, perhaps, evince towards the liver 
and other decarbonizing organs. The pulmonary 



* Kiernan on the Liver. 



57 

organs, most probably, are those acted upon under 
these circumstances. 

The readiness with which one organ undertakes 
the functions of another, is in obedience to a conserva^ 
tive law, under which we can safely undergo a variety 
of changes which would be otherwise dangerous or 
impossible. So much for the use of this interchange. 
But in the absence of this interchange, although 
a state of freedom from danger or disease may 
exist for a time, yet one organ will not continue for 
an indefinite time to perform the function of any 
other without disorder, as commonly understood, or 
disease. Consistently with the foregoing, a very 
material element in constitutional treatment, of 
course, is the equalization of function amongst the 
various organs of the body. But it may happen in a 
given case that this is impossible from the presence 
of organic disease in some one organ. By impossible, 
I do not mean absolutely, but relatively to our pre- 
sent knowledge. This is an important distinction, 
because in practice it, according to my experience, 
makes an exception to a rule. The rule being to act 
on the primarily affected organ, wherever discovered ; 
the exception being to act on organs secondarily af- 
fected, or otherwise situated, where the organ primarily 
affected shall have become diseased, that is, temporarily 
changed in structure, and as this is so often observed in 
the disorders under consideration, but little trouble 
is needed to fix upon the right mode of treatment. 




58 

That secretion, like every other operation in the 
animal economy, must for ever be involved in ob- 
scurity — ^how from the same animal fluid bile should 
be secreted by one organ, tears by another, muscular 
fibre by a third, and osseous substance by a 
fourth, has excited surprise, and the secretion, as 
it was hitherto supposed, of fat, not less than the 
rest. 

In seeking for a cause and the allied concomitants 
and disorders of corpulence, we must look for it in a 
mal-assimilation of the digestive organs. The special 
treatment therefore must be governed by a regulated 
diet, to be varied of course as the circumstances of 
each case point out. I believe our failure hitherto has 
arisen from our not having been acquainted with the 
physiology of the liver, now made clear to us by the 
great discovery of Bernard, and more especially so,from 
our reliance on specijics handed down to us with no 
little air of authority, and adopted without much 
consideration as to their effects. 

" The abuse of specific or special remedies," says Dr. 
Latham, " whether by physicians or by the world, is a 
heavy clog and drag upon the credit and fortunes of our 
profession. How it came to pass, and how it always 
has prevailed largely, and always will and must prevail, 
may be gathered from the explanation which has been 
given. Should this be deemed too much of an expla- 
nation, let its motive be its excuse; namely, that 
thoughtful physicians may be made more fully aware 



59 

how great the evil is, and may guard against it in 
their own practice, and discountenance it by their 
example, and thus hope to abate it a little. But they 
must never hope to put it down until they can per- 
suade all their brethren to practise medicine wisely, 
and ail the rest of the world not to practise it at all. 

" Now, let us resume the subject of cure and special 
remedies where it was left off, and let us speak no 
more of their abuse. For have we not seen an obli- 
gation to use them in their own unaccountable success ; 
and have we not seen within themselves promises and 
prophecies of future knowledge ? 

" The specijic remedy and its certain cure, and the 
special remedy and its probable cure, will bear to be 
called ' great facts,' and indeed they are much to be 
admired. But to be so called and so thought of, they 
should bear the royal stamp — ^the stamp of experience. 
They should be current at sight among the wise and 
prudent, and pass with them for as good as gold. 
And, verily, such specifics and special remedies there 
are. But they are few ; few and precious — precious 
in themselves and beyond themselves. For it cannot 
be that they should stand alone; they must have 
kindreds enough of worth and value, if we could but 
find them out/' 

The assimilating actions of the digestive organs, 
both primary and secondary, must necessarily occupy 
the attention of the medical adviser in the treatment 
of this disordered condition. 



60 

Although, writes Prout, the oleaginous aliments 
and tissues, whether viewed with reference to 
health or to disease, do not occupy the prominent 
place of the saccharine and albuminous aliments and 
tissues; yet, as all the more perfect animals evolve 
the oleaginous principle, we may conclude that its 
presence contributes in some way to the welfare, if 
not to the very existence, of the animal economy. 
Moreover, if this inference be taken for granted, we 
may also infer that, like the other staminal principles, 
the assimilation of the oleaginous principle, both 
primary and secondary, is not only liable to be 
deranged, but to give occasion to various secondary 
diseases. Now, such derangements and secondary 
diseases (of the nature of which, we must confess at 
the outset, we know much less than we ought to 
know) constitute the principal subject of the present 
inquiry. 

The peculiar affections which we shall select as 
resulting from deranged assimilation of the oleaginous 
principle are — certain affections connected with an 
excessive or deficient quantity of oleaginous matters 
in the system ; obesity and leanness ; and certain 
affections connected with the mal-assimilation of the 
oleaginotLS principle^ and producing derangements in 
the qualities of the principle, of which, as a particular 
illustration, will be given the history of biliary con^ 
cretions or galUstones. 

The natural law of the deposition of fat varies 



61 

considerably at diflferent ages, and in the different 
sexes. In children and in females, especially in early 
age, the chief seat of the fatty deposit is in the 
cellular texture immediately under the skin. During 
adolescence, the fat has a tendency to disappear from 
this situation ; but about the middle age it frequently 
becomes again deposited not only in the subcutaneous 
tissues, but also in the neighbourhood of certain 
internal viscera. In a perfectly healthy individual, 
however, no abnormal deposition of fat can be sup- 
posed to take place, at any age or in any locality, 
provided the natural appetites and muscular powers 
be regulated as they ought. Whenever, therefore, 
we see an individual unnaturally fat or lean, we may 
safely conclude that an error exists somewhere ; and 
that such an individual either inherits a propensity 
to- disease, or is producing for himself such a propen- 
sity. The chief circumstances which seem to concur 
in producing derangements of the oleaginous assimi- 
lation are the following. 

First, an inherited tendency as regards hereditary 
susceptibility. So many vague notions are enter- 
tained upon this subject, that it will be necessary for 
me to define the latitude in which the term is to be 
received. A disposition to become corpulent is 
certainly hereditary, but it is only hereditary in pre- 
disposition, always requiring the influence of some 
came to produce it, and consequently always to be 
prevented, and often relieved by avoiding such excit- 



62 

ing cause. In cases of great obscurity, a knowledge of 
the disease to which the patient's parent is particularly 
liable, must, for reasons sufficiently obvious, assis1\ 
our judgment as to the treatment. No one can doubt 
that certain families have a natural tendency to 
corpulence, which can be often traced through many 
successive generations. It is curious also to observe how 
this tendency is varied in diflTerent families, and even 
in different individuals of the same family. Thus in 
one family we see the children and females possess a 
striking tendency to embonpoint^ while the male adults, 
particularly in advanced age, are as remarkable for 
their leanness. In another family directly the reverse 
may be observed, the children and females are lean, 
diseased, and squalid; while the middle-aged male adults 
are conspicuous for their corpulence. These, and other 
variations which might be named, doubtless indicate 
deviations from the normal state of health, which if 
carefully studied might throw no small light on the 
nature of many hereditary affections, at present but 
little known. 

Other circumstances which seem to exert consider- 
able influence on the deposition of fat, are climate and 
locality. The inhabitants of low swampy situations 
in temperate climates are usually remarkable for their 
bulky flabbiness and propensity to corpulence ; while 
the inhabitants of very hot, and of very cold climates, 
as well as the inhabitants of mountainous regions, 
have perhaps less tendency to obesity. There is this 
remarkable difference, however, between the inhabi- 



63 

tants of hot and of cold climates ; the inhabitants of 
hot climates can scarcely become fat without becoming 
otherwise diseased; while the inhabitants of cold 
climates seem not only to derive protection from the 
influence of the external cold, by the layer of fat with 
which their bodies may be enveloped, but the super- 
fluous carbon of the fat, combining with oxygen, 
during the secondary assimilating processes, has with 
some reason been supposed to contribute to the pro- 
duction of animal heat. Many beautiful provisions 
illustrative of these observations might be pointed out, 
did our time, and subject permit; we pass on, however, 
to the consideration of diet and exercise^ two very 
important circumstances influencing the deposition of 
fat in animals. 

Healthy individuals who spend their time in sleep, 
and in bodily and mental indolence, and who partake 
largely of fat and luxurious food, and of ale or other 
strong malt liquors, have at all ages a tendency to 
become corpulent. This tendency to become corpu- 
lent, however, is usually most remarkable about the 
middle period of life, when it is apt to terminate in 
gout, or some still more formidable disease : particu- 
larly if the individual persists in his indolent and 
luxurious habits. 

The term leanness^ as here understood, implies a 
simple absence of fat ; and is not to be confounded 
with thinness and emaciation — ^terms expressing in 
different degrees the absence, not only of fat, but also 
of the gelatinous and albuminous tissues. 



A 



64 ' 

Leanness, when extreme, and when it cannot 
be referred to a satisfactory cause, must be ac- 
counted a disease. In snch cases it is usually accom- 
panied by more or less of thinness or emaciation — 
states of the system which, if not explicable on 
obvious principles, must almost always be considered 
as morbid. 

Leanness, like obesity, depends either on pre- 
disposing or on exciting causes. That some indi- 
viduals have a natural tendency to leanness, as others 
have to obesity, there cannot be a doubt. Moreover, 
such tendency to leanness often runs in families, and 
even descends through several generations. 

The exciting causes of leanness, like those of 
obesity, may be considered under the heads of climate 
or locality; and diet and exercise. I know of no 
climate or locality, the inhabitants of which are 
naturally lean, except the inhabitants of mountainous 
regions may be said to be so. Leanness, more than 
from any other causes, results from deficient or in- 
nutritious diet ; from the free use of acid liquors, as 
cider, &c.; from excessive bodily and mental activity; 
and from a variety of aflTections capable of deranging 
or suspending the primary assimilating processes, 
and thus of cutting off* the supplies; the modus operandi 
of all which, and particularly of deficient and innu- 
tritions diet, and of excessive bodily exercise, is 
sufficiently obvious. 

Another cause of leanness may consist in a natural 



65 

imperfection of the faculty of assimilating the 
oleaginoas principle; or, as just stated, such im- 
perfection may be induced by a variety of circum- 
stances. This incapacity of assimilating oleaginous 
matters shows itself in a variety of ways. Thus 
there are some individuals whose stomachs will not 
tolerate the least portion of fatty matters ; there are 
others who, though the stomach may tolerate fat, 
never fail to suffer from its use, by what is called 
bilious derangement. Such individuals are usually 
lean. On the other hand, there are individuals whose 
stomach will bear any quantity of fat with impunity, 
and who «yet remain lean ; or certainly, at least, do 
not become fat, however freely they may partake of 
oleaginous matters. These three conditions of the 
system undoubtedly depend on very different causes. 
The two first conditions, in particular, most usually 
occur in individuals of an anxious and nervous 
character ; of great mental susceptibility and activity; 
and who, moreover, have suffered much mental 
affliction, real or imaginary. The first form, in 
particular — ^viz., the total incapacity of taking olea- 
ginous matter in any state, I have once or twice seen 
connected with cerebi^ disease, which has subse- 
quently proved fatal. In spare individuals, who take 
fat with impunity, the fat is either not assimilated at 
all, and passes through the bowels unchanged, as in 
many strumous individuals ; or if the fat be primarily 
assimilated, the secondary functions dispose of it as 



66 

£urt) as if iff deposited, so as to prevent its accnmu- 
lation. This latter more particularly occurs in healthy 
-individuals who take much exercise, or are mentally 
,womea,andwho»de,n..,,te,nofaietwU,»J 
would become fat. As a general rule, perhaps^ it may 
be finally stated that obesity is connected with 
xlifiease of the liver, and leanness otherwise ; but the 
preceding remarks will show that though this rule 
may be true in extreme instances, yet that, under the 
common circumstances in which mankind is placed in 
a state of civilization, there are numerous apparent 
exceptions to it. 

Altiiough tiie oleagmous principle, from what has 
been elsewhere, as well as above stated, seems less 
subjected to change in the primary assimilating 
jorgans than either of the other neat alimentary 
p^I«. «, that it i. doubtfol wfether it be Z 
verted . by the mere action of the stomach, &c. into 
albuminous matters; yet the case is very different 
with respect to the operations of the secondary assimi- 
lating processes on tiiis. principle. In those important 
secondary assimilating processes, for instance, which 
are constantly going on in all organized beings, and 
which cannot cease for a moment without the de- 
struction of the being, the oleaginous principle 
obviously plays a very important part. Thus in 
febrile and other diseases, in which the primary 
assimilating processes are often entirely suspended, 
4)he rapid disappearance of fatiy and other matters 



67 

from the system, and the oonseqnent general ema- 
ciation produced, not only show that the secondary 
assimilating processes are eren more active than in 
health ; but that the fatty matter, in common with the 
other matters, is somehow appropriated to the pur- 
poses of the economy. The same appears from the 
phenomena of hibernating animals, which may be 
almost said to live on their fat during their dormant 
state. The exact changes which the fat undergoes 
during the secondary assimilating processes are un« 
known ; but in whatever these changes consist, they 
are probably essential to the existence of organic life ; 
and therefore of first-rate importance. That the 
production of animal heat is the only use of fat thus 
disposed of, as recently stated, I do not believe, for 
reasons elsewhere stated.* 

That the oleaginous principle laid up in the great re- 
servoirs in which it isdepositedin animals partakes less 
of the character of a living organized substance than 
the other constituents of which bodies are composed, 
cannot be doubted ; yet that fat, or some nearly allied 
principle, admits of the highest degree of organization 
of which matter is perhaps capable, is evident from the 
large proportion in which it enters into the nervous 
and cerebral tissues ; one-fourth at least of the solid 
matters composing which tissues, is said to consist of 



♦ Prout, « Stomach and Renal Disorders," p. 261. Vide also 
Niemeyer's Lecture, Appendix. 

1? 2 



68 

oleaginous principles. With the oleaginous are asso- 
ciated an unusually large proportion of phosphorus 
and other incidental mineral matters; the uses of 
which, as well as their states of combination, are 
absolutely unknown to us. The proportion of the 
nervous cerebral masses to the other soft parts of 
animals is comparatively small, but of course is 
diflferent in different animals ; as a general rule, the 
proportion is the greatest in the more perfect animals, 
in whom the brain and nervous system are the largest. 
Moreover, as the quantity of fatty matter in animals 
seems to bear an inverse relation to the quantity of 
bodily and mental — i.e., of nervous activity — can the 
leanness proverbially produced by nervous activity be 
referred to the more rapid consumption, and 'conse- 
quent renovation from the oleaginous principle of the 
general mass of nervous matter ? Further, is not 
extra-consumption of the nervous matter attended by 
the presence of a larger proportion of phosphorus in 
the urine ? And cannot the occasional appearance of 
a large proportion of the earthy phosphates in the 
urine be referred to the same operations ? 

We have made these remarks for the sake of bring- 
ing together under one point of view the little we 
know of the general physiology, and particularly of 
the assimilation of the oleaginous principle. They are 
acknowledged to be very imperfect ; but the remarks, 
incomplete as they are, may have the effect of drawing 
the attention of others to the subject; we shall. 



69 

moreover, have occasion to refer to some of them in 
subsequent parts of this essay. 

Although obesity and leanness may, as we have 
seen, become of themselves diseases, yet in all their 
common modes of existence they are rather to be 
considered as symptoms only. A formal account of 
the treatment of obesity and leanness, therefore, is 
not necessary ; and they much more naturally fall to 
be considered in connexion with those pecuUar 
conditions of the system to which they usually belong 
as symptoms. 

The history of my finding occasion to inves- 
tigate this subject is as follows: — When in Paris, 
in the year 1856, 1 took the opportunity of attending 
M. Bernard's discussions on the views he was then 
propounding in relation to his now generally admitted 
theory of the liver fimctions. After he had discovered 
by chemical processes and physiological experiments 
which it is unnecessary for me to recapitulate here, 
that the liver not only secreted bile, but also a pecu- 
liar amyloid or starch-like product which he called 
glucose, and which in its chemical and physical pro- 
perties appeared to be nearly allied to saccharine 
matter, he further found that this glucose could be 
directly produced in the liver by the ingestion of 
sugar and its ally starch, and that in diabetes it 

• 

existed there in considerable excess. It had long been 
well known that a purely animal diet greatly assisted 
in checking the secretion of diabetic urine : and it 



70 

seemed to follow, as a matter of course, that the 
total abstinence from saccharine and farinaceous sub- 
stances must drain the liver of this excessive amount of 
glucose, and thus arrest in a similar proportion the 
diabetic tendency. Eefiecting on this chain of argu- 
ment, and knowing too that a saccharine and farina- 
ceous diet is used to fatten certain animals, and that 
in diabetes the whole of the fat of the body rapidly 
disappears^ it occurred to me that excessive obesity 
might be allied to diabetes as to its cause, although 
widely diverse in its development ; and that if a 
purely animal diet were useful in the latter disease, a 
combination of animal food with such vegetable 
diet as contained neither sugar nor starch, might 
serve to arrest the undue formation of fat. I soon 
afterwards had an opportunity of testing this idea. 
A patient who consulted me for deafness, and who 
was enormously corpulent, I found to have no distin- 
guishable disease of the ear. I therefore suspected 
that his dea&ess arose from the great development 
of adipose matter in the throat, pressing upon and 
stopping up the Eustachian tubes. I subjected him 
to a strict non-farinaceous and non-saccharine diet, 
and the volatile alkali alluded to hereafter. In about 
seven months he was reduced to almost normal propor- 
tions, his hearing restored, and his general health 
immensely improved. This case seemed to establish 
my conjectures, which further experience has confirmed. 
When we consider that fat is what is termed a 




71 

hydrocarbon, and deposits itself so insidiously and 
yet so gradually amongst the tissues of the body, it is 
at once manifest that we require such substances as 
will create oxygen and nitrogen to arrest its forma- 
tion and to vitalize the system. That is the prin-» 
ciple upon which the diet suggested operates, and 
explains on the one hand also the necessity of 
abstaining from all vegetable roots which hold a 
large quantity of saccharine matter, and on the 
other the beneficial effects derivable from those vege- 
tables the fruits of which are on the exterior of the 
earth, as they lose, probably by means of the sun's 
action, a large proportion of their sugar. 

I have some misgiving as to the importance of bread 
as an article of diet in the treatment of corpulence, which 
might be easily deduced from the principles upon which 
digestion of food in the stomach is explained. In 
addition to its nutritive qualities, it performs a 
mechanical duty of some importance. It serves to 
divide the food, and to impart a suitable bulk and con« 
sistence to it. It is therefore more necessary in these 
cases to conjoin it with articles containing aliment in 
a small space than where the food is both bulky and 
nutritive. 

Where much acidity occurs, the bread should be 
toasted, or well prepared biscuit substituted. I have 
had occasion to observe striking changes in the 
urinary deposits produced by suspending the use of 
bread, and substituting toast in its place^ this being 




72 

so prepared as to be thoroughly dried, and to carry 
with it on toasting a certain amount of charcoal. 

In some of these disordered conditions charcoal is 
given with much success. It eases pain or occasional 
neuralgia of the stomach. It is markedly useful in 
flatulence. In the majority, if not in all cases, intes- 
tinal flatulence is the result of gases generated by 
fermentation. The symptoms accompanying flatu- 
lence, however, are not always alike, and their various 
combinations afibrd indications for other treat- 
ment. Sometimes " wind*' is produced in large 
quantities with great rapidity, producing distension, 
eructation, and mental depression, the patient com- 
plaining only of these symptoms, not of pain nor of 
acidity. This enormous production of gas, irre- 
spective of other symptoms, occurs most commonly in 
the middle of life. Great difficulty is often experi- 
enced in checking its formation. Vegetable char- 
coal, or toast, as before indicated, is one of the 
best remedies for this purpose. Sometimes after a few 
mouthfuls of food this gas is formed in a quantity so 
large that the patient is constrained to cease eating. 
Here charcoal should be taken immediately before each 
meal. Other patients are not troubled till half an 
hour or longer after food. In the latter cases charcoal 
should be taken soon after the meal ; five or ten grains 
of vegetable charcoal is generally enough, and acts 
better administered with some solution of ammonia. 

Whether we shall ever arrive at an exact knowledge 



73 

of the form and proportion of the internal organs 
which are the cause of corpulence I know not When- 
ever we do so, I think it will be by means of observa- 
tions on the relations which these several viscera bear 
to one another in the healthy subject, assisted probably 
by comparative anatomy. All that can be deduced 
from what has gone before is, that their lungs are 
probably not smaller than those of others, but, from 
some unexplained cause, are not capable of containing 
so much air ; that the upper ribs are somewhat im- 
peded in their motions, but the diaphragm not at all ; 
that if our race resembles, as it probably does, cattle 
in the proportion of its orgaus, the Uvers of corpulent 
persons are likely to be larger than those of others. 

The unbumed hydrocarbon in these cases accu- 
mdate, u, the form of fat, and the unhappy sub- 
jeet, .^ about with them a great weight of material 
whiehi. simply an incumbrance to them, thi. great 
accumulation of fat again mechanically interfering 
with the movements of the chest, and also of the 
diaphragm, so that the respiratory changes and the 
pulmonary circulation are still further impeded, while 
the heart is embarrassed by the growth of fat upon its 
surface, and thus by these mutual reactions the evil 
is growing rapidly. 

The liver is composed of arteries, vems, nerves, 
lymphatics, and excretory ducts, united by a peculiar 
structure. In every other gland in the body, the 
€ame blood which supplies it with nutrition is also 




74 

adapted to its secretory oflBce, and is conveyed to the 
organ by the same vessel; but the liver requires 
arterial blood for its nourishment, and venous blood 
for the materials of its secretion ; the hepatic artery 
supplies the former, and the vena portarum conveys 
the latter. This vein is formed by the concurrence of 
all the veins of the abdominal viscera, which gather 
together and constitute one large trunk, called the 
sinus of the vena portarum, which enters the liver and 
divides in the manner of an artery. This peculiar 
arrangement induced some physiologists to suppose, 
that the bile was prepared in the abdominal viscera, 
or rather that the blood underwent some peculiar 
modification in the intestines, which prepared it for 
the peculiar change it was destined to undergo in the 
liver; and they have supported this opinion by 
another, equally gratuitous^ that the blood of the vena 
portarum is better adapted for the secretion of bile, on 
account of the larger proportion of carbon and 
hydrogen which it must contain ; but Bichat has 
observed that bile, which is a highly hydrogenated 
fluid, does not require venous blood for its secretion ; 
and contends that the bile is secreted from the 
arterial blood of the liver, since the quantity of the 
latter sent to the Hver is more in relation with 
the quantity of bile formed than that of the venous 
blood, and that the volume of the hepatic canal is 
not in proportion with that of the vena portarum. 
Dr. Flint gives a brief description of the physiolo- 



75 

gioal anatomy of the liver, in which the observations 
of Kieman, Sappey, Kolliker, Leidy, and a host of 
other and more recent writers are duly given. There 
can be little doubt now that the ultimate branches of 
the biliary ducts penetrate the interior of the lobules, 
and form exquisitely fine tubes between the hepatic 
cells. Some are of opinion that those passages are 
formed only by opposite and corresponding grooves 
on the surface of the cells, whilst others hold that a 
separate membrane is present. Dr. Flint tells us that 
a peculiarly favourable opportunity for investigating 
this point was presented in the livers of animals that 
died of the so-called " Texas cattle disease/' which 
was taken advantage of by Dr. 0. Stiles ; and that, 
" in the examination of these specimens, the presence 
of what appeared to be detached fragments of these 
little canals is an argument in favour of the view that 
they were lined by a membrane of excessive tenuity." 
In regard to the production of the secretion. Dr. 
Flint considers there are good grounds for believing 
that the liver-cells situated outside the plexus of 
origin of the biliary duct secrete the bile as well as 
ihe gh/cogenic matter ^ the former being taken up by the 
biliary capillary ducts, and thence discharged into the 
intestine. He does not consider there is any evidence 
in favour of the view held by Eobin, that the liver is 
a fusion of two distinct organs, a biliary and a glyco- 
genic organ. As regards the kind of blood from 
which bile is formed, he thinks the evidence at 



V 



76 

present obtained is in favour of the view that it may 
be secreted from either venous or arterial blood. He 
gives the estimated quantity per diem at two pounds 
and a half. The chemical composition of the bile is 
then fully detailed, an extended consideration being 
devoted to cholesterine, which, as the author holds, 
and has performed a number of original investigations- 
to prove, constitutes one of the products of the disin- 
tegration of the nervous tissue, and, after being taken 
up by the blood, is secreted from that fluid by the 
liver — a view which we are quite disposed to accept. 
A long chapter is then devoted to the glycogenic 
function of the liver, in which the evidences of the 
presence of sugar in blood are given. Dr. Flint 
agrees with Bernard, and is at issue therefore with 
others, in believing that " during life and in health 
the blood, as it passes through the liver and is dis- 
charged by the hepatic veins into the vena cava, con- 
tains sugar, which is formed by the liver indepen- 
dently of the sugar and starch taken as food/' The 
question of the presence of sugar in the liver under 
normal conditions during life is a diflferent matter ; 
and Dr. Flint remarks that from his own experiments 
he has come to the conclusion " that those who adopt 
his views cannot consistently deny that sugar is con- 
stantly formed in the liver and discharged into the 
blood of the hepatic veins ; nor can Bernard and his 
followers ignore the fact that the liver does not con- 
tain sugar during life ; although, as has been shown 



77 

by M'Donnell, sugar appears in the liver in great 
abundance soon after death/' 

We miss any explanation of the mode of origin of 
sugar from albuminous compounds, or of the functions 
fulfilled by the sugar when formed ; but apart from 
these points, and taking the phenomena of the origin 
of sugar from farinaceous compounds only into consi- 
deration, the following remarks seem to us to express 
with accuracy the views that are now generally 
received respecting the mechanism of the production 
of sugar in the liver : — " The liver first produces a 
peculiar principle, analogous to starch in its composi- 
tion and in many of its properties, though it contains 
two atoms more of water, out of which the sugar is to 
be formed. The name glycogenic matter may pro- 
perly be applied to this substance. It is, as far as is 
known, produced in all classes of animals, carnivora 
and herbivora; and although its quantity may be 
modified by the kind of food, its formation is essen- 
tially independent of the alimentary principle ab- 
sorbed. The glycogenic matter is not taken up by 
the blood as it passes through the liver, but is gra- 
dually transformed in the substance of the liver into 
sugar, which is washed out of the organ as fast as it 
is produced. Thus thie blood of the hepatic veins 
always contains sugar, though sugar is not contained 
in the substance of the liver during life." 

These opinions and experiments of Bernard have 
been much canvassed, but I think their substantial 



78 

accnraoy has not been disproved, and I therefore adopt 
them. I can bear testimony to their practical useful- 
ness in the treatment of many diseases from observing 
the facts, and much is yet to be expected from them. 

The majority of those engaged in practice still, I 
believe, look upon the liver as if the principal duty of 
this gland was nothing else than the secretion of bile. 
It is certain, however, that it does- other work, Uttle, 
if at all, inferior in importance to the formation of 
biliary matters, and quite as necessary to the mainte- 
nance of health. Its power of making, and storing 
up for a time within its cells, a material resembling 
starch, constitutes without doubt one of its most 
important functions. This no person will for a 
moment doubt, who takes the trouble of ascertaining, 
by experiment, the immense increase or diminution in 
bulk which the liver may be made to undergo in the 
space of a few days by such changes of diet as increase 
or diminish the amount of this starch-like material in 
its tissue. 

The subject is one which I conceive to be of great 
interest, in a practical point of view; and on this 
ground I would solicit the attention of practitioners 
to the facts recorded in the following pages, especially 
those relating to the Formation hy the Liver of 
Amyloid Substance. While I venture to hope that 
physiologists will also carefully consider the facts, I 
trust that those who diflTer from the theory here main- 
tained, as to the ultimate destination of the amyloid 




79 

substance in the animal economy^ will at least re- 
member that I do not put forward my view with 
dogmatism, but as one keenly alive to the difficulties 
and delicacy of the question at issue.* 

When criticising the opinion which T advance, as to 
the ultimate destination of the animal dextrine 
formed by the liver, some persons may still be in- 
clined to cling to the notion that this matter is 
destined solely for the maintenance of animal heat, 
and that it is consumed .in the respiratory process. 
To ask such persons to consider and reflect upon the 
facts connected with the disappearance of the amyloid 
substance fi:om the tissues before birth, is the best 
reply that can be given to this objection. Although 
it must be admitted that causes, apparently very 
trifling, will give rise to saccharine transformation, 
yet, as a matter of experiment, the subject is one 
beset with difficulties, and requiring great nicety of 
manipulation. On the whole, however, I believe there 
is sufficient evidence to lead to the conclusion that, 
under circumstances oi perfect healthy transformation 
into glucose is not the normal destination of the 
amyloid substance formed so abundantly in the liver. 
May not this great organ form, with the help of 
the amyloid substance secreted in its cells, a nitro- 
genous compound, just as the muscles convert the 
amyloid substance contained in them into the highly 



♦ McDonnell on the liver. 




80 

nitrogenous materials of mnscular tissue ? May not, 
in fact, the amyloid substance of the liver be the basis , 
of an azotized material formiog a constituent of the 
blood of the adult animal, as the amyloid substance of 
muscle is the basis of the material from which the 
evolution of muscular tissue is accomplished ? 

The importance of the foregoing questions I think 
cannot be overrated, and the practical deductions may 
be assumed as correct. 

It is by the assistance of the microscope that we 
can reconcile this temporary change, so to speak; 
the liver in cases of excessive corpulence becoming a 
temporary abdominal lung, and the fdnctions of this 
organ being in some measure suspended from efiPect- 
ing the metamorphosis of tissue needfril to the 
economy — ^thus secreting less bile and an increase of 
glucose. 

It will be observed that I have had the words 
perfect health printed in italics. The vexed question 
of the changes in the liver before and after death I 
shall not here advert to, as in this discussion I am 
only referring to cases of corpulence, and as 1 never in 
my experience saw perfect health in connexion with 
this altered condition of body, it is not likely experi- 
ment will for the present decide it. 

As scarcely any two men look at a subject from 
precisely the same point of view, no man sees the whole 
at once; but the various phases involved in the 
different views often, in combination, give the subject 



81 

that integral form to future investigators, which no one 
individual may have had the good fortune to discover. 
In the principles which I shall endeavour to 
sketch, however unassailable the conclusions arrived 
at may be in the abstract, the value of them to 
me is the power they aflTord of enlarging and im- 
jproving what is understood by the "constitutional 
treatment of disease/' and not only of disease, strictly 
so-called, but the conduct of all other injuries, and the 
reparative processes they require. 

Although I have before alluded to the gradual waste 
of the body in diabetes, recently, however, my atten- 
tion has been called to cases wherein corpulence has 
kept pace with the diabetic tendency, and for 
a time caused considerable doubt and not less 
anxiety. Exceptions like these are not frequent ; but 
when they do occur, are extremely perplexing and 
highly important, as regards the treatment, in a prac- 
tical point of view. 

The following illustrations, taken from the writings 
of Dr. Prout on the subject, will suflSce to confirm my 
own observations. In distinguishing between such 
effects consists the skill of the medical adviser, and 
requires a freedom from prejudice, and a patience in 
minute inquiry. 

^^ Emaciation and debility are almost invariable 
symptoms ; yet diabetes is not a disease peculiar to 
spare and feeble habits. For I have repeatedly met 
with it in individuals, from whose appearance alone it 

A 



82 

would never have been suspected; and in several 
instances I have seen diabetes occur in unusually fat 
and powerful individuals. The first instance of this 
kind occurred to me in 1837. The patient was a 
middle-aged gentleman, who had spent many years of 
his life in India, from whence he had returned, I 
believe, on account of bad health. About the period of 
his return he informed me that he weighed twenty- 
seven stone, or nearly SOO^cwt. When he consulted 
me a few months afterwards he weighed twenty-three 
stone. At this time he laboured under well-marked 
symptoms of diabetes ; the urine was large in 
quantity, and very saccharine, the thirst was most 
urgent. 

" He was put on the plan before detailed, and in a 
few weeks went on the Continent. Shortly afterwards, 
at Aix-la-Chapelle, where he had used the baths, he 
was seized with a violent nephritic attack with bloody 
urine, &c., apparently caused by a renal calculus ; but 
none was observed. Nearly two years elapsed before 
I again saw him, when he informed me that he had 
rigidly adhered to my advice, and was quite well. 
His weight was now about twenty-one and a half stone. 

" The specific gravity of his urine was I'OSO ; it was 
free from sugar, abounded in the common lithate of 
ammonia sediments, and was natural in quantity. 
The thirst had left him. He was able to ta,ke a great 
deal of exercise, and shortly afterwards went again to 
India. The second instance, which occurred about 




83 

the same time, was that of an athletic gentleman, 
about sixty, weighing upwards of seventeen stone. 
When I first saw him, the urine was much above 
the healthy standard, and very saccharine. He suf- 
fered also from constant thirst, &c. Under the plan 
prescribed, the urine soon became much diminished in 
quantity and the thirst less urgent ; and he felt little 
inconvenience from either. He also gained consider- 
ably in weight, though the urine still contained sugar. 
This gentleman died soon afterwards from an attack 
of erysipelas brought on by an injury of the head. 
Another instance of diabetes occurred to me in an 
athletic and corpulent man whom I have not since 
seen. I learn, however, from his friends that he goes 
on without sufiering much inconvenience ; but whether 
the urine stiU remains saccharine, I have had no oppor- 
tunity of ascertaining. I have also, as before observed, 
seen many instances of diabetes in corpulent middle- 
aged females." 

Another very troublesome concomitant and atten- 
dant annoyance in corpulent people, is the formation 
of gravel and calculus, a disordered condition that 
has been familiar to me for some years, and 1 may 
state that, after the usual and long-continued remedies 
prescribed for its relief — viz., the mineral waters at 
home and abroad, the season residences at the various 
springs — often failing of success, making themselves 
profoundly uncomfortable for a period of two months 
each successive year — the well-directed dietary in 

g2 



84 

whicli the liver is more or less concerned comes to the 
rescue, in finally preventing the formation of these 
distressing concretions.* 

Cases are not infrequent where the patient has 
deviated from the diet scale laid down, and a return of 
the gravel formation has been the consequence. This I 
have often observed. But I speak perhaps with some 
degree of confidence as to the value of this dietary 
regulation. 

Sir H. Thompson has called attention to the forma- 
tion of calculi, in a lecture on the prevention of gravel, 
the substance of which I here insert. This com- 
plaint being of great interest from a physiological 
point of view, as well as occurring frequently in corpu- 
lent subjects, I need not apologize to the reader 
for its introduction in this essay. The change that 
has come over the scene of late in the treatment of 
these troublesome disorders is little less than mar- 
vellous, and the surprise is that it has not been earlier 
adopted. That particular articles of food and drink 
have immense influence in producing that state of 
urine which leads to the deposition of the crystalline 
matter, consisting in the great majority of cases of 




* The latest researches upon the place of origin of urea, and 
especially the beautiful experiments of M. Gr^haut, have demon- 
strated that the kidneys are by no means secretory, but purely ex- 
cretory organs for urea. Dr. CJyon, in a late number of the 
CentraUflatty publishes a few facts in the form of a provisional 
oommunication to show that it is probably produced in the liver. 



85 

lithic acid, or one allied intimately to it, is beyond 
doubt. 

" Now let us ask what is the real pathology of these 
cases, and then I think I shall be able to show you a 
more efficient remedy. The problem has presented 
itself to me with great force and frequency, because 
people, naturally fearing they may arrive at the stage 
of calculous formations, come for advice in the earliest 
stages, and with the strongest desire to avoid the 
advanced one of stone in the bladder. So far from 
sending them to Vichy or giving them alkalies, I 
believe they can be more eflTectually dealt with by a 
diflferent mode of treatment. Let me premise, in 
broad and simple terms — as our time here, and, I may 
perhaps add, the extent of our knowledge, will not 
permit me to be more minute or exact in detail, — that 
the origin of what we call gouty symptoms, as well 
as of a superabundant uric-acid deposit in the urine, 
is due to defective assimilation on the part of organs 
associated with or forming the primse vise. I am quite 
aware that it is common in practice to speak somewhat 
knowingly of the liver, its actions and its states, 
although we have still to learn a good deal about all 
this. Some years ago we talked and acted as if we were 
thoroughly acquainted with the liver and its functions ; 
but during the last fifteen or twenty years new light 
has been thrown upon the subject by Bernard, and we 
have learned that the more we inquired the less did 
we certainly know of its natural functions, still less of 



i 



86 

its action in disease. Thus, if one thing was more 
settled than another, at least since the time of Aber- 
nethy, it was that mercury had a specific influence on 
that organ ; but now we find there are grounds for 
believing that the action supposed has no existence 
at aU. There were other things, indeed, which were 
vaunted to take the place of it, but no oiie ever 
thought of disputing the fact that you could augment 
the bile secretion by administering mercury. I am 
not here to say whether that is so or not, but it seems 
to have been proved that there are substantial reasons 
for doubting if our ancient faith in that dogma be 
tenable. In speaking, then, of the " defective action 
of the liver,'' or of *' torpor of the liver,'* I merely use 
provisional terms, which most understand as indi- 
cating more or less distinctly a certain set of symptoms. 
Let them be briefly described as mainly consisting of 
a constant, or almost constant, deficient excreting 
function by the bowels, sometimes, but by no means 
always, associated with impaired appetite and slow or 
uneasy digestion; these latter being often absent if 
the diet is carefully selected, or if the patient lives in 
the open air and takes much exercise. On the other 
hand, considerable and multiform symptoms of dis- 
turbed digestion may be frequently present. I cannot 
positively state whether those phenomena are really 
due to inactivity of the organ in question ; practically, 
for us to-day; this does not signify much, but the 
current terms are still convenient formularies until 




87 

others can be substituted for describing the condition 
in question. 

" Now, at the bottom of this tendency to uric-acid 
production there often lies what is thus understood as 
inactivity of the liver ; and the true rationale of the 
undue formation of the urinary salts appears to be 
that, the liver or some allied organ not doing its duty 
as an excreting organ, the kidneys have more work 
thrown upon them. Thus the solid matters of the 
urine, or rather some of its ordinary constituents, are 
augmented, — not all of them, for urea is not neces- 
sarily increased, but uric acid is largely produced, and 
is eliminated not only in solution but in crystalline 
forms. Uric acid is very insoluble in water; and 
although the quantity thrown out may be quite soluble 
at the natural temperature of the urine (100® Fahr.), 
when this diminishes to 60^ 50®, or 40®, the acid is 
deposited ; and when the quantity is still larger, even 
the ordinary amount of fluid associated with it at a 
temperature of 100® will not suffice to dissolve the 
whole, and solid uric acid is deposited in some part of 
the urinary passages. This deposit may take place 
in the kidneys themselves, giving rise, if not thrown 
ofi*, to the formation of calculus, at first renal, but 
sooner or later mostly becoming vesical. Now, if all 
this be so, the formation of uric-acid gravel is not by 
any means to be regarded as necessarily disease of the 
kidney ; on the contrary, it is the result of an active 
and capable organ vicariously relieving some other 



88 

organ which is torpid. The true remedy therefore is, 
not to stimulate the kidneys, aheady overworked — not, 
to nse a familiar simile, to spar that horse of the team 
which is already doing too much work, but you are 
to seek the cause in that other one of the team which 
is doing deficient work, and that is almost invariably 
the liver, in the sense already explained. 

" The treatment, then, which I advise you to pursue 
is to employ such agents as will stimulate the excre- 
tory action by the primse viae without depressing vital 
power. No doubt that a powerful agent for the pur- 
pose is mercury ; and it is quite unquestionable that 
the relief of the symptoms above alluded to is to be 
obtained in a remarkable manner by occasional small 
doses of that drug. For our purpose, however, it is 
neither so successful in action, neither can it be consi- 
dered so harmless, as another class of agents, which in 
these cases I believe to be in every way superior — I 
mean certain kinds of natural mineral waters. These 
I also regard as superior in these maladies to taraxa- 
cum, nitric acid, alkalies, and the other substitutes, as 
they have been termed, for mercurial remedies, in 
promoting the function of the liver. The mineral 
waters which I refer to belong to a group of springs 
all containing sulphate of soda, and some of them 
sulphate of magnesia also, in solution. In studying 
these waters, I wish you to look with me at the 
composition of them, and at the same time to dismiss 
from your minds entirely those views of medicinal 




89 

doses which you have acquired in the dispensary, and 
which necessarily belong to it, since small quantities 
of drugs, as they exist in mineral waters, will act 
more freely than will those quantities combined after 
the ordinary pharmaceutical method. 

" Here is a table of the waters which I refer to, with 
a comparative synopsis of their distinguishing saline 
contents, representing the number of grains (without 
chloride of sodium and other less active agents) in an 
English pint. Below these I add two well-known 
alkaline waters. 



Saline : 

PuUna 

Friedrichshalle 

Marienbad (Kreuz) . 
Carlsbad (Sprudel) . 
Franzensbad 

Alkaline: 

Vichy (Celestins) ) 
about.... J 

Vals (Magdeleine) ) 
about f 



Snlpliate 

of 

Soda. 



154 grs. 
58 „ 
48 



Sulphate 

of 
Magnesia. 



Carbonate 

of 

Soda. 



116 grs. 



49 



» 



25 
30 



» 



» 



» 



}f 



9 grs 
13 



a 



» 



47 „ 
65 „ 



( Little 
( iron 

f Little 
( iron. 

f Little 
( iron. 



{ 



Little 
iron. 



" The most powerful of this group is that of PiiUna, 
which contains 154 grains, or nearly 2 J drachms of 
sulphate of soda to the English pint, and nearly 2 
drachms of sulphate of magnesia. Those quantities 



90 

would give a tolerably eflScient purge to anybody. 
But you must not give a pint of Piillna ; 6 ounces 
would be a full dose. I do not like PttUna generally 
for our purpose, because it purges too freely, often 
gripes, and is very nauseous. Half a drachm of 
* sulphate of soda and half a drachm of sulphate of 
magnesia in this form is too much for many people. 
I therefore recommend Friedrichshalle, which contains 
not a drachm of sulphate of soda in a pint, and little 
more than three-quarters of a drachm of sulphate of 
magnesia. Nevertheless, you would not think of 
giving a pint ; eight or nine ounces make an efficient 
purge ; for many persons six or seven suffice. I think 
I may say that seven ounces is an ordinary average 
dose. If you take seven ounces of rriedrichshalle 
water an hour before breakfast, and soon after a cup 
of hot tea or coflfee, you will have a full, free action of 
the bowels ; perhaps two. That, you see, would be 
about twenty-five grains of sulphate of soda and 
twenty grains of sulphate of magnesia, which, taken 
in any combination you like out of a druggist's 
drawer, would have no appreciable action ; you might 
be a little uncomfortable perhaps, but there would be 
no action of the bowels. To repeat what I have said : 
if you evaporate a quantity of Friedrichshalle water 
in a warm water bath, and obtain as perfect a product 
as a chemist can produce, and administer four times 
the amount of salt in that form which exists in a dose 
of the natural water, you would still not have such 



91 

efficient or such certain results as from the small 
quantity (in the natural water) named above. So 
that there is something, which I do not pretend to 
explain, and certainly shall not speculate about here, 
which distinguishes the action of mineral waters from 
the action of salts which are produced pharmaceuti- 
cally. The next water on my list is Marienbad, 
which contains no sulphate of magnesia, forty-eight 
grains of sulphate of soda in the pint, with nine 
grains of carbonate of soda, and a small quantity of 
iron. About half a pint produces for most persons an 
easy motion. If this water is exposed to the air for 
a day or two, there will be an obvious brown deposit 
of the iron, and it may be regarded as slightly ferru- 
ginous, though that is a secondary character. The 
next is Carlsbad with its many springs, all of which 
contain about 20 grains of sulphate of soda and 13 
of carbonate of soda in the pint. Then we come to 
Franzensbad, which contains 30 grains of sulphate of 
soda, 6 of carbonate, and a little iron, which Carlsbad 
does not. That closes this group of springs. 

"But now I shall just point out the distinctive 
characters of the alkaline waters which are so popular 
in this country. First, Vichy, which contains only 
3 grains of sulphate of soda, but nearly 50 grains of 
carbonate of soda, in the pint — a powerfiil solution. 
Then we come to Vals, which is also from the volcanic 
district of France, some of the springs of which con- 
tain upwards of 60 grains of carbonate of soda, and 



w 



92 

hothing else worth mentioning. These two waters 
are extremely famous, and are much resorted to against 
gout and gravel. Under their use the uric acid de- 
posits disappear — that is, they are dissolved by the 
alkali. Inasmuch also as this appears to have some 
beneficial action on the liver, a certain degree of per- 
manent benefit is perhaps also attained. Thus such 
patients are often better for a time after a visit to 
Vichy ; but, as a rule, are not permanently benefited. 
I am satisfied, after observation on the spot, and on 
the effect of the waters here, that they only tempo- 
rarily mitigate the complaint, and do not cure it. 
Now, the principle upon which the waters of Fried- 
richshalle and Carlsbad are beneficial is, that they 
produce activity in all the digestive functions, and 
thus waste matters which have been hitherto thrown 
out as uric acid by the kidney are eliminated in some 
other form. And thus it is that, if it be necessary to 
send these patients abroad, I prefer very much Carls- 
bad to Vichy, provided always that the subject of a 
Carlsbad course must not have become too weak, as 
for a time it makes a demand on thQ strength not well 
supported by a feeble person. Generally, however, 
this is not at all the condition of those who are passing 
uric-acid gravel. I believe that a short course of 
Friedrichshalle first, followed by Carlsbad, or by a 
combination of the two, produces the best results in 
these cases. This method has, at all events, been 
more successful with me than any other. Such a 



93 

course should be continued, according to circumstances, 
for six or eight weeks. 

"A few words upon the way in which you should give 
them. If you have a patient coming to you whose 
digestion is not good, complaining of foul tongue, 
with deranged digestion and loss of appetite, it is 
sometimes, not always, desirable to give first a single 
dose, no more, pay three or four grains, of blue pill 
at night, and the next morning eight or ten ounces of 
Friedrichshalle water, so as to ensure good action at 
first. Then commence with Friedrichshalle combined 
with hot water, one dose every morning an hour 
before breakfast, diminishing a little the quantity every 
day or every few days. One of the characteristics of 
this water is that the longer it is taken the smaller is 
the quantity necessary to efiect the purpose. If, for 
example, seven or eight ounces taken in the morning, 
say with five ounces of hot water, produce one active 
movement of the bowels immediately after breakfast, 
the next morning six or seven ounces will do the 
same, and the morning after probably five or six 
ounces ; and it is very likely that at the end of three 
weeks the patient will from four ounces experience 
the same efiect produced originally by seven or eight. 
But after you have given it thus for one, two, or three 
weeks, according to the nature of the case and the 
results, you should combine it with Carlsbad, say three 
or four ounces of the former and five or six of the 
latter, with three or four of hot water every morning. 




94 

When Friedriclislialle is given alone, and also when 
it is mixed with Carlsbad, 20 or 30 per cent, of hot 
water should be added, that it may resemble somewhat 
the original condition at the spring. Friedrichshalle 
is naturally hot, and is evaporated on the spot to a 
small extent, being regulated and rendered uniform 
by stopping the process when the water reaches a 
certain specific gravity. Carlsbad, which at the spring 
is too hot to drink until cooled, should, when taken 
alone and unmixed, be raised in temperature to 90° 
or 100°, by placing the tumbler containing it in a 
vessel of hot water for a few minutes. After giving 
this combination of the two waters for two or three 
weeks, 8k, seven, or eight ounces of Carlsbad may be 
taken alone for another fortnight perhaps. The quan- 
tities given are considerably less than those adminis- 
tered at the gpa itself, where a patient's stay is neces- 
sarily limited as to time. I am quite satisfied that 
the smaller quantity here recommended, and employed 
for six to nine weeks, instead of the usual three weeks 
of a foreign course, is better for a majority of the 
patients we have to deal with. The same quantity of 
water given there in 21 days, producing often notable 
loss of weight and power, will, if given here in 50 or 
60 days, attain the object as certainly and more safely. 
I by no means dispute that there are other cases 
which may be benefited by the more heroic plan 
adopted on the spot. I have largely and systemati- 
cally employed these agents now for seven or eight 



95 ♦ 

years, modifying the quantity and the mode as ex- 
perience has indicated, and the course thus briefly 
described is the result of it. The course may be 
repeated with advantage, if necessary, for most patients 
after an interval of three or four months. Meantime, 
as an occasional aperient and a corrector of digestion 
for these patients, I know nothing equal to Fried- 
richshalle. 

" I will advert briefly to the subject of diet, certain 
restrictions in which are extremely important. It 
used to be said that when uric acid is largely deposited 
the nitrogenous elements of the food should be con- 
siderably diminished. I do not find in practice that 
a strict application of this rule is advantageous. On 
the contrary, the diminution of the deposit is more 
certainly attained by a course which is almost the 
opposite of that. There are three classes of aliments 
which must be permitted to the patient very sparingly, 
in order to attain the end in view — viz., alcohol ^ 
saccharine and fatty matters. First, alcohol: any 
fermented liquor permitted as an article of diet should 
be selected in its more diluted and in its most pure 
form. Believing that form in which it is found ex- 
isting in natural wines to be usually the best, I would 
advise a light sound Bordeaux or a Ehine wine of 
similar quality, the former perhaps agreeing better 
with most persons. You will forbid Champagne, 
as for the most part imperfectly constituted, and 
always bad if containing much liqueur. The stronger 



♦ 96 

wines, as sherry and port, are mostly unsuitable, and 
strong beer is to be absolutely forbidden. Solutions 
of pure spirits and water are exceptionally desirable for 
some few persons with weak digestion. Secondly, 
migar in all its forms ; at every meal and wherever 
met withy forbid it altogether. Thirdly, let fatty 
matters, butter, cream, and the fat of meat, whether 
simply cooked or in combination to form pastry, be 
taken very sparingly. I cannot enlarge on the theory 
on which this advice is given. Suffice it to say that 
abstinence from the substances named probably 
lightens considerably the work of the liver, and so 
lessens the vicarious labour of the kidneys in accor- 
dance with the views already propounded. Let me 
just advert, moreover, to the dietetic system at 
Carlsbad. In recognition of some such principle 
there, no doubt, the use of sugar and of butter is 
absolutely forbidden during a Carlsbad course; and 
were you patients there, your purveyor would not 
supply you with the forbidden food, however much 
you might demand it. I can only say, as the result 
of observation, that this system, much more than the 
elimination of meat from the dietary, will reduce the 
uric acid deposit. If you will cut off a portion of 
alcoholic stimulant when necessary, and it often is so, 
will forbid everything that contains sugar, and diminish 
considerably all fatty matter — giving nitrogenous food, 
in fact, eliminating hydrocarbons — ^you will gene- 
rally accomplish more than by the contrary method. 



97 

In addition to all this, you will of course see that the 
patient takes daily a fair amount of exerpise in 
the open air, and that he protects his skin and en- 
courages the performance of its functions by habitual 
ablutions and sufficient clothing. These points I 
can only name ; but they are essential concomitants to 
the rest. 

"Well, then, it is this system of diet and regimen, 
* and the occasional systematic employment of the 
mineral waters named, which mainly constitute the 
treatment I strongly advise for the purpose of 
checking calculous disease in its early stages, and so 
to prevent the formation of stone in the bladder in 
that considerable majority of cases which are due to 
uric-acid formation and its consequences."* 

Before any suggestions are offered in reference to 
the treatment of corpulence, it may be useful to some 
of my readers to be informed of a few circumstances 
relative to the anatomy and physiology of the deposi- 
tion called fat, and of the nature and properties of the 
substance, the increased deposit of which is so injurious 
to the functions of life. This I shall do as concisely 
as possible. 

The manner in which fat is distributed over the 
body is now generally understood to be by the texture 
of the cellular membrane. Formerly, it was supposed 



* Dr. Tuson, of the Indian Annj, fully concurs in the above 
remarks. 



98 

that it merely adhered in clusters to the parts where 
it was found. 

This membrane is thicker in some parts than in 
others, and is everywhere composed, as it expresses, of 
a number of cells communicating with each other. 
Some have thought that the fat was contained in cells 
peculiar to itself, on which account the name of 
adipose has been given to that part of the membrane 
in which it is found. The other has been called* 
reticular cellular substance, and is considered as the 
universal connecting medium between the larger and 
smaller parts, extending itself to inconceivable minute- 
ness, and constituting, according to the opinion of 
Dr. Hunter, one-half of the whole body. 

That celebrated anatomist in his lectures always 
described the fat as contained in little bags of its own, 
not communicating with each other. He observed 
that if pressure was made on the adipose membrane 
the oil did not recede into the surrounding cells, as 
water did in anasarca ; and that water was often seen 
in parts of the membrane where fat was never found. 
This, however, would prove no more than that in the 
economy of the system certain parts only of the 
cellular membrane are constituted to admit the depo- 
sition of fat. The fat, though, from its transparency 
in the living subject, it may appear fluid, is certainly 
not to be considered as oil. If it were, it would pro- 
bably descend like water. 

The quantity and quality of fat varies according to 



99 

the age, as before stated, and the parts in which it 
is deposited. It is firmer and higher coloured in 
old persons than in young ones. It is also more 
condensed and solid in parts liable to compression 
than in the omentum, or about the heart, stomach, 
and intestines. In children the fat is distributed over 
the surface of the body; but as we grow older it 
diminishes on the surface in proportion as it becomes 
deeper se^ed. 

It is supposed that a person weighing one hundred 
and twenty pounds generally contains twenty pounds 
of fat. The accumulation of fat, or what is commonly 
called corpulency, and by nosologists denominated 
polysarda^ is a state of body so generally met with in 
the inhabitants of this country, that it may exist to a 
certain degree without being deemed worthy of atten- 
tion ; but when excessive is not only burdensome, but 
becomes a disease, disposes to other diseases, and to 
sudden death. 

The treatment of obesity would now seem to rest 
upon a more sure basis than it has hitherto done, the 
investigations pursued by Dr. Dancel having been 
somewhat instrumental in leading to this result. In 
proof of the truth of this remark, we may look back for 
a moment to the curative agents formerly in use. 
Thus we find a tolerable list of remedies in the pages 
of Maccary, which includes — bleeding from the arm 
or jugular vein, lewches to the arms, dry cupping, 
prolonged blistering, vegetable diet with vinegar, acids 

h2 



100 

(except nitric and phosphoric), hot baths, salt-water 
baths, baths of Aix, Spa, Forges, Eouen, and oc- 
casional starvation, decoction of guaiacum and sas- 
safras, scarifications, salivation, grief and anxiety to 
be induced, purgatives, issues, pricking the flesh with 
needles, walking with naked feet, and removal of 
exuberant fatty tissue with the scalpel. Since this 
ridiculous catalogue was published, Turkish baths, 
sea-voyages, very little sleep, emetics, digitalis, soap 
(a relative of Mr. Wadd's ordered a quarter of a 
hundredweight of Castile soap for his own eating), 
salt, mercury to salivation, the inhalation of oxygen 
gas, purgatives, diuretics, the extract of the fucus 
vesiculosus, and preparations of bromine or of iodine 
have been freely tried.* But all these plans, however 
perse veringly carried out, fail to accomplish the object 
desired, and the same must be said of simple sobriety 
in eating and drinking. 

The explanation of all this is very simple. Food 
consists of azotized or nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous 
principles. The former — the nutritive or plastic class 
— includes all fibrous and albuminous matters, such 



* Wadd has also told us that " among the Asiatics there are 
Brahmins who pride themselves on their extreme corpulency. 
Their diet consists of farinaceous vegetables, milk, sugar, sweet- 
meats, and ghee. They look upon corpulency as a proof of 
opulence ; and mfiny arrive at a great degree of obesity without 
tasting anything that has ever lived." 

Dr. Fothergill stated that a strict vegetable diet produces 
exuberant fat moie certainly than other means. 



101 

as animal food ; these matters aiding the formation 
of blood and muscle, but not entering into the com- 
position of adipose tissue. The latter — the calori- 
facient or respiratory class — consists of oily and fatty 
matters, with sugar, gum, starch, and vegetable acids, 
all of which contain carbon and hydrogen, the elements 
of fat. Man undoubtedly requires a mixed diet ; that 
is to say, nitrogenous food is needed for the formation 
or renewjtl of the tissues and other nitrogenous parts 
of the body; while the respiratory food is required 
for the production of the fatty components of the body, 
and as affording materials for the respiration and thf 
production of heat. Hence it is clear that while we 
may limit the non-azotized substances, they must not 
be altogether cut off. Moreover, it is of practical 
importance to remember that the elements which are 
chemically convertible into fat are rendered more fat- 
tening if alcoholic liquids be added to them in the 
stomach, probably because of the power which stimu- 
lants possess of lessening or delaying the destructive 
metamorphosis. It may be said that a diet such as 
I recommend is calculated to induce lithic acid dia- 
thesis with gout. The only answer is, that I provide 
against this occurrence by a draught of ammonia and 
magnesia taken early in the morning. Moreover, as 
a matter of experience, I have found no indication 
of gout to follow this treatment; and in cases 
which I have successfully treated according to these 
rules, not the slightest symptom of the kind occurred. 



102 

But even should an attack of gout result, it is really 
a disease of minor importance compared to obesity, 
except as a con finned aflfection. 

It only remains to say that every patient under 
treatment for this disease should be regularly weighed, 
while the condition of his health is to be carefully 
watched. Particular heed is to be taken that the 
appetite does not fail, the power of digestion fall ofi*, 
constipation take place, the action of the heart become 
enfeebled, or the blood get impoverished. On 
the part of both physician and patient, firmness of 
purpose and steady perseverance will be needed. As 
a rule, the diminution should not be allowed to pro- 
gress more rapidly than at the rate of one pound a 
week, and it ought not to he carried to too great an extent. 

The consequences of obesity are often more serious 
than is generally believed. To put aside many minor 
inconveniences — which, however, may be sufficiently 
annoying to make the sufierer desirous of reducing 
his weight, even at some risk of his health — ^it may be 
taken as a general rule that obesity does not conduce to 
longevity. Aristotle says that " fat persons age early, 
and therefore die early." As a mere statement of fact, 
this is true when tested by averages \ but it is important 
to remember that obesity may be either the cause of 
an early death, or merely a warning that a tendency 
to premature decay exists ; in which latter case the 
time given for treatment may allow of the happiest 
results being produced. The functions of various im- 



103 

portant organs being constantly impeded must cause 
many distressing disorders. As a rule, to which every 
one can call to mind exceptions, excessive corpulence 
diminishes both bodily and mental activity. One of 
the most anomalous cases is mentioned by Maccary, 
who states that he met at Pavia the most enormously 
fat man he ever saw ; but who, nevertheless, was a 
dancer, and was exceedingly agile and graceful in his 
movements. But generally obesity is accompanied 
with diminished vital power ; there are disturbances 
of the organs of respiration, circulation, and digestion ; 
the blood is proportionately deficient in quantity or 
quality, the muscles are weak and have but little 
firmness, while the countenance is bloated and sallow. 
And although the disposition is often sanguine, so 
that the sufferer continues lively and cheerful, and 
has the happy habit of looking at the best side of 
everything ; yet active mental occupation is generally 
as uncongenial as repose and idleness are in harmony 
with the inclinations. Lord Chesterfield is no great 
authority ; but he mixed much with men, and in his 
opinion fat and stupidity were such inseparable com- 
panions, that he said they might be used as convertible 
terms. It is a common prejudice that fat persons are 
slow of intellect, and the provincial epithet of " fat 
head" sufficiently expresses the popular idea of the 
mental powers of the corpulent. But there are pjenty 
of instances which conflict with this view ; and I need 
only mention David Hume and Napoleon to convince 



104 

everyone that it is not universally true. Eaggi, an 
Italian physician, who was a great authority on 
corpulence, relates many cases of extreme corpulence 
in which the intellect remained quite alert to the 
last. Many of us were acquainted, from personal 
observation, with the huge bulk of that remarkable 
man Dr. Woolff, the Bokhara missionary, one of the 
fattest of men, and whose intellect was a marvel of 
restless activity. 

Fats are obtained abimdantly from both the animal 
and vegetable kingdoms. Their predominating ele- 
ments are carbon and hydrogen. They never contain 
nitrogen, except as an accidental ingredient. They 
are made up of three closely allied bodies — ^viz., stearin 
((TTca/D, suet), margarin (from its lustrous appearance, 
fiapyapov^ a pearl), and olein (oleum, oil) which is fluid. 
When fatty matters are heated with the hydrated 
alkalies, they undergo saponification, during which 
process a viscid sweet fluid, glycerine (yXvicvg, sweet), 
is yielded. Now several physiological studies lead to 
the conclusion that oils and fats may not only be 
formed in the system from food which contains it 
ready prepared, but also from chemical transformation 
of starch or sugar. Many experiments have been 
made on geese, ducks, and pigs, which have proved 
that these animals accumulate much more fat than 
could be accounted for by that present in the food. 
M. Flourens had the bears in the Jardin des Plantes fed 
exclusively on bread, and they became excessively fat. 



105 

And several authors have shown that bees form wax, 
which strictly belongs to the group of fats, when fed 
exclusively^ on purified sugar.* If with foods of this 
nature the animals be subjected to a warm atmosphere, 
and allowed but little room for movement, the adipose 
tissue rapidly gets increased. At Strasbourg, the 
place of all others most noted for its pat^ de foies 
gras, the geese are fatted by shutting them up m 
coops within a room heated to a very high temperature, 
and stuffing them constantly with food. Here all the 
conditions for insuring obesity are resorted to — ^viz., 
external heat, obscurity, inactivity, and the cramming 



* Huber and Gundelach had stated that bees possess the power 
of forming wax from sugar. Others, however, on trying the ex- 
periment of shutting bees up with loaf sugar, could not succeed 
in getting them to construct their comb ; and, therefore, these state- 
ments were discredited. The bees when thus restricted to the use 
of pure sugar only, either would not build at all, or else made so 
Httle wax that the quantity might be easily accounted for by that 
which they naturally retain in their bodies. But MM. Dumas 
and Edwards (Annales de Chimie et de Phys., vol. xiv. p. 400), 
conjecturing that possibly these failures might arise from the un- 
natural position in which the bees were placed, put the matter to 
the test in a different way. They first ascertained how much wax 
on the average, is contained in the body of a bee, and then how 
much wax in honey. Then the swarm was shut up in a closed 
hive, and supplied, not with sugar as the others had been, but with 
their natural food. The animals continued to be industrious ; but 
instead of constructing only so much comb as might be derived 
from the wax of their bodies added to the wax of the honey, that 
which they formed was three-times as great as could be thus ex- 
plained. There could be no other source of this additional creation 
than the sugar of the honey, and from that we must conclude that 
it arose. 



i 



106 

of the animals with nourishment. A still greater 
refinement for pandering to the appetite is resorted 
to by the Italians, who appear particularly to relish 
the fat of the ortolan. To procure this in perfection, 
the natural habits of the bird were watched ; and it 
having been found that food is only taken at the 
rising of the sun, cunning men have arranged that 
this luminary shall rise much more frequently than 
nature has ordained. To effect this, the ortolans are 
placed in a dark warm chamber which has but one 
aperture in the wall. Food being scattered over the 
floor, a lantern is placed at a certain hour in the 
opening, and the birds, misled by the dim light, 
believing that the sun is about to shed its rays upon 
them, at once consume their rations. The meal 
finished, the lantern withdrawn, and more nutriment 
scattered about, the ortolans fall asleep as in duty 
bound; though probably not without a feeling of 
surprise at the shortness of their day. Two or three 
hours having elapsed, and digestion being completed, 
the lantern is again made to throw its light into the 
apartment. The rising sun recals the birds to the 
necessity of again feeding, and of again sleeping as 
they become enveloped in darkness. Thus this process 
is repeated several times in the twenty-four hours, 
until, at the end of two or three days, the ortolan 
becomes a delicious little ball of fat, ready to minister 
to the palate of the gourmand.* 

* Whiteside's " Italy." 



107 

The instinctive desire shown by all nations for an 
oily diet, and the association of this substance with 
the ideas of luxury in all times, shows the value of a 
certain amount of it to a man's comfort. The " butter 
and honey" of the prophet, used as a phrase for royal 
food, and the reference in almost every other page of 
the Bible to oil as a luxury (though it could have 
been no rarity in a land peculiarly described as a " land 
of oil olive ") — ^these are sufficient to show its estima- 
tion among the Hebrews. The Hindoo Sepoy, when 
he devours his gallon of rice for a meal, will spend all 
the pice he can get on the clarified butter of the coun- 
try ; and " as good as ghee " is his expression of un- 
qualified praise. It was an error in Dr. Liebig to state 
that oily foods are an object of disgust to natives of 
hot climates ; all races of men require them and seek 
after them, and the taste of the Esquimaux, so often 
quoted, probably depends principally on the abundant 
supply of the article which the sea places at his dis- 
posal, coupled with a scantiness of other provision. 
Throughout mankind there is an instinctive desire for 
this food, which, as we have seen, nature finds the 
most ready material for forming the adipose tissue of 
the animal body. 

A moderate amount of fat is a sign of good health, 
and physiologists generally allow that the adipose 
tissue ought to form about the twentieth part of the 
weight of a man, and the sixteenth of a woman. 
Independently of the importance of fat as a non- 



i 



108 

conducting substance, in impeding the too rapid 
escape of animal heat, it may also be regarded as a 
store of material to compensate for waste of tissue, 
under sickness or other circumstances entailing tem- 
porary abstinence from food. Nevertheless, in excess 
this substance not only becomes burdensome and un- 
sightly, but a real and serious evil. It is hardly 
necessary to give any description of obesity, since it is 
a condition recognizable at first sight. Yet it must 
be remembered that a man may be large, having the 
muscular system well developed, and the fat propor- 
tionately increased, without being obese. ^'This 
corpulency or obesity," says Cullen, "is in very 
different degrees in different persons, and is often con- 
siderable without being considered as a disease. There 
is, however, a certain degree of it, which will be 
generally allowed to be a disease ; as, for example, 
when it renders persons, from a difficult respiration I 
uneasy in themselves, and, from the inability of 
exercise, unfit for discharging the duties of life to 
others." The accumulation of fat must not be con- 
founded with the degeneration of muscle and other 
tissues into this substance. 

The causes of obesity are numerous. It is 
often hereditary or constitutional, the inclination 
being derived from either parent. This tendency is 
seen not only in individuals, but in nations — e.g., the 
Dutch are as stout as the Americans are proverbially 
thin. Over-feeding will induce fat, and so will the 



109 

habit of taking too much fluid. The obese are not 
always great eaters ; but they invariably drink a great 
deal, even though it be only water. Farinaceous and 
vegetable foods are fattening, and saccharine matters 
are especially so. The instance of slaves in Italy, 
who got fat during the grape and fig season, has been 
quoted by Galen. In sugar-growing countries the 
negroes and cattle employed on the plantations grow 
remarkably stout while the cane is being gathered 
and the sugar extracted. During this harvest the 
saccharine juices are freely consumed ; but when the 
season is over the superabundant adipose tissue is 
gradually lost.* 

The necessity of abstaining from the saccharine 
materials, and all those allied to them, which in the 
metamorphosis of digestion form sugar, will be ob- 
vious from what has been stated. The following 
scale of diet may as a rule be adopted : — 

Breakfast — Four to six ounces of meat, two 
ounces of biscuit or toast, and a large cup of tea, but 
without milk or sugar. Dinner. — Ten to twelve 
ounces of any fish, except salmon — any vegetable, ex- 
cept potatoes and vegetable roots — any kind of poultry 
or venison, and two ounces of toasted bread. With it 
drink two or three glasses of good red wine, sherry, 
or madeira, avoiding champagne, port, and beer. 



* Tanner's " Practice of Medicine," published by H. Eenshaw, 
356, Strand. 



i 



110 

In the afternoon four to six ounces of fruit, one or 
two biscuits, and again a large cup of tea without 
milk or sugar. Supper. — Six to eight ounces of meat 
or fish, and one or two glasses of red wine. In order 
to ensure a good night's rest, often, before going to 
bed, drink a glass of grog without sugar, or else one 
or two glasses of sherry or red wine. If the bread or 
biscuit is too dry, moisten it with a spoonful of brandy. 

Such was the diet advisedly adopted in Mr. 
Banting's case, which of course must be modified as 
.circumstances require in others. 

As to what is unnecessary, that of course is diffe- 
rent in different cases. In the diet I usually forbid 
or place great restrictions on all saccharine and fatty 
matters, pastry, &c. 1. Because I know that most 
people eat too much of them ; 2. Because they are 
the chief elements of what is called respiratory food, 
and thereby load the pulmonary machinery; 3. 
Because there is quite sufficient of these in lean meat 
as ordinarily eaten, in edible vegetables before indi- 
cated, and in other substances ; and better calculated 
for attaining the object in view. Lastly, because any 
excess of these matters tends to load the livery which 
it is in all cases most desirable to keep freely in action. 

The least acute and rapid hepatic diseases are trace- 
able and amenable to dietetic influences, and are best 
treated according to this view. Whether we admi- 
nister mercurials or other known specifics, supposed to 
exert a specific infiuence on the liver, their beneficial 




Ill 

eflfect is proportioned to the extent to which they de- 
termine the nutritive changes occurring in the organ, 
and the reciprocal relation between the general nutri- 
tion of the body and the local nutrition of the organ 
in question. The difficulty under which we labour, is 
to determine thft exact condition of malnutrition which 
at any time prevails, and the exact irregularity in the 
metamorphoses induced in and reflected from the liver. 
We require a much more accurate diagnosis of the 
changes (even of a coarse kind) which take place in 
this important organ, than we now possess ; but, so far 
as our knowledge goes, the pathology and therapeutics 
of hepatic disease, equally, seem to confirm the view 
that primary or secondary malnutrition forms the basis 
upon which all disorders of the liver rest. 

If we fail to discover any specific treatment for 
hepatic disease, we are not more successful in a similar 
search in the range of the urinary organs. We 
have seen that there is good reason for regarding all 
renal disease as depending upon antecedent morbid 
conditions of the bloo^, brought about by errors of 
diet and regimen, demanding, at an early stage, such 
measures as may enable the affected organ to recover 
its normal balance by throwing off the poison and its 
immediate effects. But, practically, we are much 
more frequently called upon to enable the organism 
to adapt itself to a permanent disturbance of balance, 
because we are unable to effect a cure. In the former 
case, we endeavour either to relieve congestion and 



112 

inflammation by drawing blood to other organs and 
establishing vicarious secretions, or we are able, by 
increasing the secretions of the kidneys themselves, 
to remove the offending cause. {Vide p. 97.) 

An exact knowledge, however, of the structural 
effects of diet, including the albuminous, fatty, and 
mineral constituents of food, whether animal or vege- 
table, and of the various kinds of drinks, is yet to be 
arrived at with certainty. Much attention has been 
in recent times devoted to this topic, and, doubtless, 
will add much benefit in the cure of disease generally, 
and also specially. 

It is not mere nitrogenous or non-nitrogenous kinds 
of food that will serve for nutrition, theoretically 
supposed by the chemist. To form tissue they must 
be converted into albumen and oil, so as to form the 
constituent part of the blood. 

For instance, the amount of oxygen in the atmo- 
sphere greatly influences the quantity of food. If 
cold and condensed, more oxygen will unite with the 
tissues and more nourishment will be required to 
meet the demand ; if warm and rarefied the appetite 
diminishes, and less nutritious food is required ; thus 
it is of the last importance to«take these points into 
consideration before undertaking the treatment of a 
case of corpulence. 

All living beings are governed in the selection of food 
by laws which the chemist cannot regulate. Hence che- 
jnistry may teach us much ; but the laws of dietetics, 



113 

after all, must be regulated by the study of physiology. 
It is unnecessary to dwell at any length upon the fact 
that, of all causes of disease irregularity of diet is the 
most common, and the sequence is, that of all means of 
cure at our disposal attention to the quantity and 
quality of food is by far the most powerful. The 
peculiar kind of aliment which this disease requires 
has been alluded to. 

These and similar facts clearly show the para- 
mount importance of diet, not only in preserving 
health, but, when correctly used, in curing disease. 
Highly important in the treatment, in a thera- 
peutical point of view, in a disease of this chronic 
character, is the medical advice, of course, regulating 
the quantity as circumstances occur. 

What we require to learn is the influence of the 
various substances which unite with our food, or form 
the tissues of our bodies, as well as the chemical and 
structural metamorphoses these undergo during the 
acts of assimilation, secretion, and excretion. 

The question, however, of fat accumulating in par- 
ticular parts of the body so as to produce disease is 
quite a different one to that of corpulence. ^ Many 
corpulent persons enjoy excellent health, and I strongly 
recommend them to let well alone. It is, however, 
desirable when persons are suffering in health, to 
know as near as possible what their normal weight 
should be. We are indebted to the late Dr. 

John Hutchinson for weighing above two thousand 

I 



J 



114 

six hundred men at yarions ages. I was sf rack with 
an obvious relation between the height and the weight 
of the persons he so pertinaciously weighed and mea- 
sured, starting with the lowest men in his tables, it 
would be found that the increase of weight was as 
nearly as possible five pounds for every inch in height 
beyond sixty-one inches. The following figures show 
the relative height and weight of individuab measur- 
ing five feet and upwards : — 

STATUBE. WEIGHT. 

5 feet 1 should be 8 stone 8 or 120 lbs. 



5 


n 


2 


n 


9 


19 





99 


126 


99 


5 


jj 


3 


99 


9 


» 


7 


99 


133 


99 


5 


» 


4 


w 


9 


99 


10 


99 


136 


99 


5 


w 


5 


99 


10 


99 


2 


99 


142 


99 


5 


99 


6 


»> 


10 


99 


5 


99 


145 


99 


5 


» 


7 


» 


10 


99 


8 


99 


148 


99 


5 


n 


8 


» 


11 


99 


1 


99 


155 


99 


5 


99 


9 


» 


11 


99 


8 


91 


162 


99 


5 


19 


10 


>> 


12 


99 


1 


99 


169 


99 


5 


» 


11 


» 


12 


99 


6 


99 


174 


99 


6 


9) 





91 


12 


99 


10 


99 


178 


99 



The proportion which this tissue ought to bear in 
weight is of great practical importance. That there 
is for every adult man of a certain height a tolerably 
definite weight, which is not difficult for any indi-^ 
>ddual to find out, and that all considerable perma- 
nent additions must consist of fat. As to the exact 
amount of fat which may exist without proving in- 
jurious to health, there appears to be the greatest 
variation, some possessing an enormous develop- 
ment of this tissue and enjoying perfect health. 



115 

These figures of height and weight, taken from 
Dr. Hutchinson's paper on that subject, should 
be read with some degree of caution. But we 
must be mindful of the observations of that 
gentleman when he points out that it is very 
difficult, from our scanty knowledge upon human 
statistics, to say what is a person's proper weight, 
and no doubt it is so, to satisfy the requirements of 
a physiologist or statistician. But still there is a 
degree of knowledge, very far from perfect and 
accurate, on which we are in the habit of acting in 
the daily concerns of life, and which as long as we 
continue to bear its deficiencies in mind, and are 
ready to correct them when the opportunity offers, is 
really as valuable to us as mathematical certainty. 
" It is impossible," as Dr. Hutchinson remarks, " to 
say where the weight by excess commences: it is 
therefore only in the extremes of weight that we can 
positively say that there is excess or deficiency." 
But it is with these extremes that we are now con- 
cerned, for it is in extremes only that disease consists; 
and with the slight variations from what, as physio^ 
logists, we lay down as the normal condition, our 
interference is not required. 

If, for example, a proposal to insure a life be sent 
from the country, backed merely with the opinion of 
a referee whom we do not know, that " no signs of 
disease are discoverable," and that " the proposer has 
a robust appearance," our knowledge of the tendencies 

I 2 



116 

of his constitution is small indeed. Bat if to this it 
be added that he is fire feet eight inches high, and 
weighs eleven stone, we feel a certain degree of safety 
in accepting him. But should his weight be seventeen 
stone, a probable deposit of fat in the omentum and 
the heart occurs to us, — disturbance of the abdominal 
circulation, apoplexy, &c., are suggested, and the 
liability balanced and inquired about. A correspond- 
ing deviation from the natural weight, in the other 
direction, would in a similar manner lead to a more 
detaHed examination of the chest, and a calculation of 
the possible existence of tubercle. When we remem- 
ber that four-fifths of the losses at insurance-offices 
arise from apoplexy and consumption, the safety which 
they would gain by the simple observation above 
mentioned is obviously very important to those en- 
gaged in such enterprises. I may add, too, it facili- 
tates much the explanations of the reasons for a 
refusal or acceptance, which the directors will some- 
times require from their medical advisers ; for it 
depends on a reasoning comprehensible to all, and 
capable of reduction to figures ; so that we are thus 
enabled to follow the advice of the wise man of old, 
which bids us " deliver all things in number," and 
can avoid the vagueness of a mere negative opinion.* 
Or, to further the illustration, if a man of five 
feet, whose weight should be eight stone, increases to 



* Chambers " On Corpulence." 



117 

twenty-eight, no less than twenty stone of additional 
fat have to be supplied with capillaries, and those 
capillaries have to be supplied with blood by vessels 
constructed to circulate but one third of the quantity. 
How wonderful must be the power of adaptation 
which can fender such a change consistent with life 
at all ! how little cause for surprise if that life is short, 
and burthened with innumerable ills ! 

Why so little regard is paid to changes in weight by 
the profession at large is difficult to understand, un- 
less the observation made by a crafty politician on the 
faith of the vulgar is also applicable to men of science, 
and they are more disposed to trust to what is obscure 
and hard to observe, than to what is easy and obvious. 
They will rather attempt to prove an uncertain nega- 
tive by a laborious investigation, rather state doubt- 
fully that a disease is not worse, because their fallible 
eyes or ears cannot find it to be so, than establish the 
affirmative of restored health, by observing that there 
is sufficient energy of system to form healthy fat. Or 
they will take the word of a cheerful patient that his 
health is improved, or trust to the variable indications 
aflforded by his secretions alone, without testing them 
by an instrument so simple that it is in daily use 
among those who cannot read, but withal so trust- 
worthy that it is taken for a type of the divine attri- 
bute of justice. 

It is important to bear in mind in the treatment 
of corpulence, that a human body weighing eleven 



i 



118 



jBtone, or 154 pounds, may be said to contain the 
following compounds and elements : — 



160 



COMPOUNDS. 




ELEMENTS. 






lb. 


OS. gr. 




lb. 


OS. gr. 


Water . . . . : 


Ill 





Oxygen . . . 


. Ill 





Grelatin .... 


15 





Hydrogen . . 


. 14 





Fat 


12 


6 


Carbon . , • , 


. 21 





Albumen . . . 


4 


3 


Nitrogen . . , 


. 3 


8 


Fibrine .... 


4 


4 


Phosphorus • < 


1 


12 190 


Phosphate of Lime 


5 


13 


Calcium. • . , 


2 





Carbonate of Lime 


1 





Sulphur. . . , 





2 219 


Fluoride of Calcium 





3 


Fluorine • . , 





2 


Chloride of Sodium 





3 376 


Chlorine. . . . 





2 47 


Chloride of Potas- 






Sodium . . . 





2 116 


sium .... 





10 


Iron ..... 





100 


Sulphate of Soda . 





1 170 


Potassium . . . 





290 


Carbonate of Soda 





1 72 


Magnesium • , 


. 


12 


Phosphate of Soda 





400 


Silicon . . • 


. 


2 


Sulphate of Potash 





400 








Peroxide of Iron . 





150 








Phosphate of Potash 





100 








Phosphate of Magna- 

















75 








8ilica , . . , 

m 





8 









154 



If we consider what are the periods of life at which 
fatness is usually most developed, we shall probably 
gain a clearer idea of the impolicy of wholesale ex- 
haustive measures for the reduction of corpulence. 
Generally, this tendency does not conspicuously 
gain the upper hand till late in middle life; 
in fact, till just that period when the powers are 
beginning to fail. In such persons a careful ana- 
tomical search, could it be made, would discover 
other and very significant traces of the failure of 



119 

vital energy, even though these might be such as are 
consistent with an extended prolongation of life. 

The following table shows the daily supply and 
waste of a human body weighing eleven stones, and 
measuring five feet eight inches in height. This, of 
course, will vary as before observed, and requires a little 
latitude, but on the whole, it may be relied upon : — 



TAKEN IN. 



^. — Gases, 
Oxygen 



n. — Liquids. 
Water: — 
In beverages 68 oz. 
In solid food 25 

m.—SoUds. 

Flesh producers : — 
Fibrine . . 3oz. 
Albnmenand 
caseine • 1 

Heat-givers : — 
Starch . . 12 oz. 
Fat or batter 5 
Sngar . . 2 

Indigestible :— - 
Q«latine . . 1 oz. 
CeUidar . . 1 

Mineral matter . . . 



oz. 



24> 



93 



4> 



19 



2 



143 



GIVEN OUT. 



I. — Oases, 
Carbon . 
Oxygen . 



11 oz. 
24 



. — Liquids, 
Water:— 




By kidneys . 61 oz. 

By lungs . 31 

By skin . . 16 

Byalimentary 
canal . . 5*237 



oz. GK. 



35 



103-237 



m. 


— SoUds, 
Insoluble. . 

Soluble : — 

Urea . . 
Salts . . 


• • • 

oz. gr. 
. 1-200 
. I 


2 
2-200 








143-000 



• These figures show approximately the nature and 
extent of the various chemical changes taking place 



M 




120 

within a human body, in a normal state of health, 
in a cycle of twenty-fonr honrs. When important 
alterations occur in the nature and quality of these 
processes, disease ensues, and hence the necessity of 
submitting to medical treatment for the cure of 
corpulence at an early date. It is the excess of adipose 
material the physician has to regulate, and a conse- 
quent debility in the system, and more particularly in 
the circulation of the blood. 

Excess in this respect is equally injurious with 
deficiency. Indeed, practically speaking it is more 
injurious, because the dangers to which it exposes the 
individual are more likely to be induced by the ordi- 
nary course of our lives than are dangers which 
deficiency is subject to. By an over-development of 
adipose tissue the capillary system of blood-vessels is 
vastly increased in aggregate bulk, while at the same 
time no corresponding increase takes place in the forces 
which supply the means of action to those capillaries. 
Hence there is a comparative weakness in the con- 
servative vital actions, and an injury to any part of 
the body, especially to those parts which, physiologi- 
cally speaking, are most distant from the fountain of 
life, and is less easily repaired. 

No claim can be made for the accuracy of the above 
table beyond a rude approximation to the truth ; but 
as no one has yet analysed a whole human body, we 
may take these calculations as representing the compo- 
sition of these elements. 



121 

These substances, however, are not in a quiescent 
state. They are all of them constantly undergoing che- 
mical change, and the result of this chemical activity 
is what is called life. One of the necessary conditions 
of the life of the body is that it be placed in an 
atmosphere containing oxygen gas. Our atmosphere 
contains 79 parts of nitrogen and 21 parts of oxygen 
in every 100. This oxygen is being constantly taken 
into the human body. If we prevent the oxygen 
getting into the lungs by hanging, drowning, or any 
other process, the person is suflfocated. It is the 
oxygen which consumes the body. Just as a burning 
candle is consumed in the air, so is the human body. 
The oxygen attacks the carbon in the system and 
forms carbonic acid ; it unites with the hydrogen and 
forms water. It has been calculated that twenty- 
four ounces of oxygen are every day taken into a 
human body weighing 154 pounds^ This oxygen 
does not remain in the human body, but comes away 
from it again in the form of carbonic acid gas, which 
is expelled from the lungs. Twenty-four ounces of 
oxygen will unite with eleven ounces of carbon, and 
thus form carbonic acid, which is disposed of in 
respiration. 

There exists, moreover, a vital action which no 
natural philosophy can elucidate. The lights of 
chemistry, feeble as they are in the stomach and first 
intestine, fail us altogether after the change produced 
by the. admixture of bile. At this period of the pro- 



122 

eess it is probable that certain organic changes result, 
and are developed and modified by a new class of 
actions, wholly different from what we understand by 
chemical transmutation; in short, the organization 
and the composition of the products are to be regarded, 
and which during their passage through the liver are 
doubtless elaborated by a series of ascending changes 
into forms of increasing complication. 

The only safe conclusion at which we can arrive 
upon this subject maybe embodied in the following — 
1. That animal food in its variofus forms proves more 
stimtdant in these cases to the lungs than vegetable 
element. 2. That fermented liquors are injurious to these 
organs^ both on account of their general effects upon the 
circulation, and their specific action upon the nervous 
system: increasing on the one hand the necessity of 
respiratory changes; and on the other, diminishing the 
energies of the ofgans by which they are accomplished. 
3. That moderate exercise, hilarity of mind, free venti'- 
lation, and abstinence from fermented liquors, are 
essentially necessary in this disordered condition of the 
body, in order to promote the free evolution of carbonic acid 
from the pulmonary organs. 

As regards the quantity of food, this must be 
regulated by the feelings of the patient, and he will 
not have occasion for any artificial standard of weight 
and measure. But he must, in such a case, restrict 
himself. An indulgence in variety provokes an arti- 
ficial appetite, which he may not readily distinguish 




12^ 

from that natural feeling which is the only true 
indication. 

But the quantity of food required by the body 
is also exposed to circumstances which are just as 
certain to baffle all such calculations. For this 
quantity wiU evidently vary with the rate of 
waste sustained by each individual, and also with 
the activity of his life, the nature of his habitual 
exertion, and the state of his mind, as well as with 
the climate, race, temperament, and education, which 
help to form the microcosm of every man's personality. 
The degree of variation which may be brought into 
play by each of these circumstances it is impossible to 
specify, though it would often receive no inapt illus- 
tration from a comparison of the habits of the various 
members of a family or other social circumstances. 

Hence the true value of physiological chemistry, 
in respect to the principles of dietetics, is that of 
being a correct guide to the general composition of 
a daily food. In this capacity, it is not too much to 
say that its veto ought to be absolute ; but with this 
negative function terminates its practical usefulness. 
Our choice of the exact quantities and qualities of 
alimentary substances necessary to construct a perfect 
scale of diet, may indeed be sometimes explained by 
chemistry; but U must always be dictated by ex- 
perience. 

But the rate of waste, and the consequent need of 
replacement, both depend far less on physical causes 



124 

of this kind than on certain actions which are specific 
to the organized hody. These actions, which in the 
aggregate make up what we term life, do not so much 
imply as actually consist in a perpetual process of 
flux and metamorphosis. This multiform change 
engages the whole of the corporeal tissues, and con- 
ducts their various ingredients through a number of 
successive phases of composition to an effete and 
useless state, in which they are finally ejected from 
the body. 

In examining the phenomena of waste and supply, 
we shall observe that there is a marked difference, 
depending on age, health, temperament, and bodily 
exercise, in the proportion of the parts which enter 
into this current, and of those which abandon it ; and 
that the velocity of the motions usually varies accord- 
ing to the different conditions of each living being. 
A knowledge of these differences, which is to be dis- 
covered only by ample experience and well-directed 
observation, must constitute the basis of a true theory 
for the regulation of diet. If it be said that a deficient 
quantity of food is indicated by our feelings, and that 
an excess is carried off without inconvenience, I shall 
reply that, under ordinary circumstances, nature rarely 
suffers from abstinence^ but continually from reple- 
tion ; that while in one case she limits her expendi- 
ture to meet the exigences of her income, in the other 
she is called upon to exercise an injurious liberality to 
throw off by various secretions and exhalations the 



125 

useless burden. In the vigour of health and youth the 
evils of such a system may not be felt; but as life 
advances organic changes are slowly and imperceptibly 
produced, which ultimately, by their aggregate effect, 
clog the machine, and lead to disease and premature 
death. 

It will be understood, then, that we are continually 
undergoing change ; the body is thus hourly, nay, con- 
stantly being built up and taken down. It is thus 
that the house in which we live is perpetually pass- 
ing away, the physical and chemical forces acting on 
particles of matter too minute for even microscopic 
vision. This chemical activity may be considered 
as life. 

" And men themselves do change continually 
From youth to eld, from wealth to poverty, 
From good to bad, from bad to worst of all ; 
In doe their bodies only flit and fly, 
But eke their minds (which they immortal call) 
Still change and vary thoughts as new occasions falL" 

Evermore our bodily frames are wearing out, and 
being thoroughly renewed till weary eld. Some por- 
tions of tissue, of brain substance^ of muscle, of nerves^ 
of skin, of the whole body, are perishing continually 
and the dead portions are removed in various ways 
from the body, while their places are taken by new 
tissue. This new tissue is formed from the food we 
take.* 

* Lowndes, on " Health." 



126 

It is obvious then when once the body has reached 
its full development in manhood, the quantity and 
quality of the food should be regulated by the demand 
made by the wear and tear of the body. If, for instance 
a person, already sufficiently stout, is growing fatter 
and fatter, he is taking more fattening food than is 
necessary or safe, and must restrict himself. In like 
manner, if a person free from disease is getting too 
thin, he must endeavour to make such a change in 
his diet or mode of living as may stop his growing 
thin, as it is evident the supply of fattening food 
taken is not sufficient to meet the demands made by 
the wear and tear of the body. 

As a summary, I think we may assume that, 
except in the sense of mere make-weight or mo- 
mentum, the undue accumulation of adipose ma- 
terial is a source of weakness, not power; and 
without due attention to arrangementy and the laws of 
proportion^ we know that the addition of a large 
increase does not add to beauty or stability, but the 
contrary. The moment the quantity of material 
exceeds the laws or principles of the structure, instead 
of adding to strength and usefulness, it becomes a 
source of imperfect equilibrium, increases the liability 
to disease, or is only a deformity at best. In organized 
bodies, whenever the corporeal development exceeds 
the amount of vital action it becomes an oppression 
and incumbrance, and eventually is productive of 
great disorder in the general system. For example, 



127 

the largest buildings and the most bulky animals are 
certainly not the most useful ; nor in proportion the 
strongest. Matter that is not in full requirement, 
is usually an annoyance, and a source of discomfort ; 
the smallest means that are suflScient to produce any 
given result are the most important in nature ; and, 
as a general rule, the more space anything occupies in 
the world, the more it is exposed to outward enemies, 
and the more numerous are its internal sources of 
destruction and decay. 



APPENDIX. 



I HERE subjoin a portion of a lecture delivered by Dr. Nie- 
meyer, on the subject of this Essay, feeling confident, from 
the Professor's well-known accuracy and his desire at all times 
to further the ends of medical science, that it will be found 
highly interesting to the general reader, being at the same time 
practical and useful. It has also the advantage of demon- 
strating in a brief space the outline of the system to be adopted, 
and the mode in which it should be practised. 

I will now endeavour to explain to you, says Dr. Niemeyer, 
the contents of Mr. Banting's pamphlet from a scientific point 
of view, and to indicate how far the facts which he commu- 
nicates are in harmony with, and how far they deviate from the 
present opinions of physiologists and medical men. 

In order to solve this problem, it is especially essential to 
examine more minutely the system of cure to which Mr. Ban- 
ting owes his recovery, and to answer the question, whether the 
various principles advocated can be viewed as a whole, and 
recognised as one system. 

It can, indeed, be easily proved that in drawing up the bill 
of fare for our patient, and also indicating precisely what 
should be avoided, we must act upon certain consistent prin- 
ciples. If we compare those aliments of which Mr. Banting 
was allowed an unlimited use, with those of which he was only 
allowed to take a small quantity, we shall see that by such a 

K 



130 

diet, the body would receive essential nourishment from the 
former in very plentiful, but from the latter in very limited 
proportions. 

Those aliments of which a plentiful use was permitted to 
Mr. Banting, are classed by Baron Liebig among the 
" plastic" means of nourishment, whilst those of which he 
was only to partake sparingly, are called the ''means of 
respiration." There is, however, much to object to in this 
nomenclature. 

As before mentioned, these two alimentary elements are in- 
dispensable for the continuance of life, and in order to prove 
this assei-tion, I will shortly allude to the organic requirements 
of the body, and to the manner in which these means of nourish- 
ment operate. The organs and tissues of which the body 
consists, are constantly becoming worn out and used up ; and 
in order therefore, to prevent the dissolution of the body, it is 
absolutely necessary that the loss which thus arises, should be 
constantly replaced by new material. Equally indispensable 
for the continuance of life is the maintenance of the body at a 
certain temperature. The fluctuations of temperature to which 
the skin is exposed, do not affect the interior of the body. Man 
can live and prosper at the poles, or under the equator, and 
notwithstanding the icy cold of the one, or the glowing heat of 
the other, the normal temperature of his body may be always 
maintained. 

In order to meet the first necessity, viz., to replace the loss 
of the worn- out tissues, it is necessary to assimilate the sub- 
stances of which those tissues consist, or of which they may 
be formed. Now, the most important organic tissues of the 
body consist principally of the so-called albuminous bodies, 
i.e., of the white of egg itself; of the muscular fibre, &c. It 
is, therefore, necessary that the body should be constantly sup- 
plied with albumen ; and neither man nor animal can exist 
if albumen be entirely withheld from them for any length of 
time! 



131 

The second condition necessary for the support of life, viz., 
the maintenance of the normal temperature of the body, is 
attained by our body undergoing a continual process of com- 
bustion. Although no flames such as accompany the burning 
of wood in the open air, arise from this combustion, yet heat is 
still developed, and thus the body is continually supplied with 
warmth. 

The oxygen of the air, which we breathe, and the connexion 
of which with the component parts of the body in developing 
heat, we just now called combustion, has much less relation to 
the above-mentioned albuminous bodies, than to certain other 
parts of the organic system, which are therefore consumed 
quicker, and in larger quantities. The constant waste (princi- 
pally in producing warmth) of these component parts of the 
body must be replaced by new material, and this is accomplished 
chiefly by additions of fat, starch, vegetable gum, sugar, and 
other similar substances. [The hydro-carbons which go by the 
name of fat, differ from other hydro-carbons, as sugar and 
starch, in the circumstance that the oxygen is never in sufficient 
quantity to satisfy the affinity of the hydrogen, and therefore 
fat is more energetic as a respiratory or heat-producing agent. 
Its power, indeed, in this respect, is just twice and a half as 
great as that of dry starch or sugar; for ten grains of it in a 
dry state will, by combining with oxygen, develope sufficient 
heat to raise 23'32 lbs. of water 1® F. ; and according to the 
deductions of both Joule and Meyer, this is equivalent to the 
power of raising 18,003 lbs. one foot high. In cold countries, 
where animal warmth is required, food rich in fat is always 
preferred ; and the fat bacon of the English labourer contri- 
butes in no small degree to the production of mechanical 
force. But besides this, fat serves important functions in the 
processes of digestion, assimilation, and nutrition. According 
to Lehmann, it is one of the most active agents in the meta- 
morphosis of animal matter ; and this is seen not merely in 
the solution of nitrogenous articles of food during digestion, 

k2 



132 

but also in the conversion of ontrient plastic substances into 
cells and masses of fibre. Elsasser long since obserred that, 
during the process of artificial digestion the solution of nitro- 
genous foods was considerably accelerated by means of fiit; 
and Lehmann has since determined, by actual experiment on 
dogSy that albuminous substances depriyed of fat remain longer 
in the stomach, and require more time for their metamorphosis 
than the same substances impregnated with fat. It is probable 
indeed, that the digestive power of the pancreatic fluid is due 
in great measure to the presence of fat ; and that the subse- 
quent chymification of food, and its absorption into the blood, 
is greatly assisted by it. There is also good reason for be- 
lieving that it is largely concerned in the formation of bile, and 
that the biliary acids are conjugated fatty compounds. This 
and other such foods assist in promoting the secretion of 
bile. — ^Lethebt on FoodJ] If the aliments absorbed have not 
for some time contained any such substances, the body suffers 
precisely the same process of dissolution as if no albuminous 
matter had been taken in nourishment. 

There have been many direct experiments made on animals, 
which have been fed exclusively on the one or the other of 
these last-mentioned simple aliments, in order to ascertain 
whether they could be kept alive for any length of time. 

All these experiments have had negative results, and every 
one of the animals succumbed after a shorter or longer 
period. 

From these experiments it is evident that none of the 
ordinary alimentary substances contain exclusively either the 
one or the other of the elementary materials of nourishment. 
Nay more : however much the various alimentary substances 
which are absorbed by man and all classes of animals may 
difler in their composition, yet they all contain substances be- 
longing to the class of " plastic " matter, as well as to the class 
of '^ the means of respiration." For instance, in eating meat. 



133 

besides the albumen and the material forming the fibres of the 
muscles, we absorb a certain quantityof fat— a representative of 
the second class of substances. 

In like manner, we consume the starch and the albumen 
contained in bread and potatoes. 

Although all ordinary alimentary substances contain ele- 
ments from these two principal classes, there is still a great 
difference in the proportions of the ** plastic " nutriment, and 
the " means of respiration." Generally speaking, the " plastic " 
nutriment predominates in the aliments derived from the 
animal world, whilst in those of vegetable growth, the " means 
of respiration," such as starch, sugar, &c., prevail. 

You are now in a position to judge for yourselves whether 
the above theory is logical and follows a definite principle in 
drawing up our patient's bill of fare. 

You will perceive that whilst we allow our patient to eat great 
quantities of meat, he should be forbidden fat, potatoes, sugar, 
and milk ; that the allowance of bread should be reduced to a 
very small quantity, that tjje supply of " plastic" nutriment be 
lessened, and • also the means of the supply of the " means of 
respiration." 

According to the theory held by some distinguished savants, 
especially Liebig and Moleschott, respecting the absorption 
of alcohol by the human body, the only error with which 
Mr. Harvey can be taxed, is that he allowed his patient a 
comparatively large supply of spirituous liquors. Liebig and 
Moleschott classify alcohol under " the means of respiration ;" 
for it is burned up in the body and serves for the purpose of 
obtaitiing warmth. But he must be absolved even from this 
apparent error. The theory that alcohol undergoes a process 
of combustion in the body, is not founded upon direct experi- 
ment, but belongs to the region of hypothesis. I am further 
supported in making this assertion by the fact that the experi- 
ments of my friend and colleague, Mr. Hoppe-Seyler, and of 



134 

Messrs. Setchenow, 'Bnchbeim, and others, have proyed that 
alcohol is Dot bamed up in the human bodv^ but is thrown 
out (at any rate the greatest part of it) in an nndecomposed 
state. My own conyictions also confirm the soundness of 
the opinions held by Messrs. Hoppe-Seyler, Setchenow, and 
Bachheim, for in thoroughly intoxicated individuals the 
temperature of the body is by no means abnormally high, but 
abnormally low, notwithstanding the full veins and reddened 
head. 

I must, therefore, repeat that I consider the permission to 
drink wine, and even brandy, perfectly logical. 

It was also perfectly correct and logical for Mr. Harvey, 
whilst allowing the use of wine, to forbid the use of beer, 
especially the highly malted English beer. From the stronger 
descriptions of beer, the body absorbs not only alcohol, but 
likewise considerable " means of respiration." 

[With regard to the use of fermented liquors, there is the 
same universal indication of their serving a profound physio- 
logical purpose, and supplying a jjommon want It is no 
argument that, because these things have been abused they 
serve no purpose in man s economy. On the contrary, the 
fact of their use in all time, and that no saccharine liquid, or 
juice of ripe fruit, can be exposed to the air without spon- 
taneous and almost immediate fermentation, are striking 
evidences of design and a useful purpose. They may not 
enter into the composition of tissues, but they may stimulate 
the energies of the living frame, and rouse them into increased 
activity. It is not merely the brickwork and marble, so to 
speak, of the human body, nor yet the rough movements of 
the machine, that have to be sustained, for there are rarer forms 
of matter, and higher manifestations of force, concerned in 
man's existence ; and his resort to such beverages as these 
may be for something more than the nourishment of the 
system or even the mere raising of his spirit above the com- 



135 

mon concerns of this work-o*-day world. That alcohol stimu- 
lates the action of the nervous system there is no doubt, and 
it is equally certain that it increases the respiratory changes. 
It appears then in the breath and perspiration, as well as in 
the urine. They, theref9re, conclude that alcohol is not a 
food, but it is a mere excitor of nervous centres. On the 
other hand Dr. Thudichum, in a rather large experiment on 
the students of his class (33 in number), found that of the 
61,730 grains of alcohol in the 44 bottles of wine which they 
drank at one sitting, only 154*3 grains appeared in the urine; 
assuming that the same quantity was exhaled by the breath 
and skin, he concluded that only 0*5 per cent, of the alcohol 
escaped unchanged. He therefore believes that alcohol is 
oxidized in the body, and is a true food.*] 

However, the fact that Mr. Harvey did not follow Liebig's 
theory, but forbade beer, and allowed wine, has doubtless been 
productive of important practical consequences. Had he like- 



* Alcohol addresses the nervous system. It first excites and then de- 
presses and overcomes. It has been the great tempter and curse of man 
since the days of Noah. It has been hailed by poets and praised by 
prophets, and, again, driven from society as a devouring beast. It may, 
perhaps, be safely advanced that, with his present tendency to abuse this 
substance, man would be better without it. Nevertheless, if guided by 
reason, it may be made by man an alleviation of his sorrows, a protection to 
his health, and a harmless contribution to the pleasures of his social meals. 
The great question is, how much may be taken from day to day with 
impunity. Without going into any question of its action on the system, 
whether it is partly burned or all got rid of by the secretions, I would say 
that my experience is that a healthy man, taking open-air exercise every 
day, cannot safely consume more than two ounces of alcohol daily. Roughly, 
this quantity is represented by a pint of strong ale, or a quart of London 
porter, or four glasses (or eight ounces) of port or sherry, or eight glasses 
(or sixteen ounces) of hock or claret. More than this may be excess ; but 
every man should be the judge of his own requirements. When alcohol 
affects the head, or produces thirst, or deranges the stomach, or liver, or 
kidneys, it should be given up or reduced. There is no doubt, however, on 
my mind, that men, women, and children can maintain their health through 
long periods without having recourse to alcohol at dXi.'^Lanketier* 



136 

wise forbidden the nse of wine^ it is possible and indeed not 
improbable, that the energetic Mr. Banting would have 
. conscientiously followed this prescription, but I much doubt 
whether the Banting system would then have gained so many 
adherents. The sacrifice of drinking wine instead of beer is 
much easier than the sacrifice of abstaining firom all spirituous 
liquors. 

Having now analysed the diet which Mr. Banting followed, 
and reduced it to a definite principle, let us compare these 
results with those at which physiologists and the investigators 
of physiological chemistry have arrived in their researches 
concerning the changes in the elements of nourishment and 
the influence of aliments in the production of fat. This 
question has been examined with particular attention, and in 
this field science has achieved great triumphs. It would 
occupy too much time if I were to describe the details of all 
these researches ; I will, therefore, only bring before you a 
few simple facts. 

It is well known that the bodies of carnivorous animals, in 
whose nourishment " plastic " aliments predominate, contain 
very little fat, whilst the bodies of ruminating animals, in 
whose food the "means of respiration" prevail, are much 
fatter, and can easily be fattened by plentifully administering 
to them the " means of respiration." I have only to point to 
animals of the cat and dog species : in their wild state they 
live only on flesh and yet remain thin and lean, in spite of the 
rich nature of their nourishment : but they gradually become 
fat when tamed and accustomed to a mixed diet, such as 
potatoes, bread, &c. 

I can also mention the prevalence of corpulence in certain 
castes, who live exclusively on milk, rice, and fat: their 
religion forbidding them to eat meat or eggs ; and these may 
be contrasted with the muscular, but thin, bodies of those 
tribes whose only means of subsistence is derived from 



137 

hunting and fishing. These few examples may suffice. From 
similar facts, ascertained after carefiil and exact experiment, 
physiologists have arrived at the conviction, that the produc- 
tion of fat bears a certain ratio to the amount of " the means 
of respiration," and scientific men have no hesitation whatever in 
designating " the means of respiration " to be the depositor of fat. 

We may see the proof of this, in the fact that Mr. Banting 
became fatter as long as he lived what is called " low," i.e., 
when he ate principally bread and potatoes, with the addition 
of large quantities of beer, milk, and sugar ; whilst, when he 
lived " well," i.e., principally on meat, he became thinner. 

This fact corresponds exactly with the laws for the produc- 
tion of fat which the observations and experiments of physio- 
logists have established. 

I will however remark that, notwithstanding the satisfactory 
progress of science, and the accurately ascertained proportions 
of the " plastic " aliments and " means of respiration " required 
to produce a great amount of fat, the precise process of 
producing fat from these substances is by no means defined. 

Most scientific men (and Liebig among others), who have 
examined the subject, have no doubt whatever that the fat 
producers are transformed into fat, and that this fat passes into 
the tissues ; but there is another theory, advocated likewise by 
many distinguished men, which deserves attention. According 
to this theory the fat itself, as well as the fat producers, which 
we absorb with our aliments, are consumed in the blood, and 
used as the means for producing heat, and likewise the fat 
which is formed in the body, is produced from the fleshy or 
albuminous substances in the system. Numerous examples 
may be adduced in favour of this last explanation of the 
production of fat. 

[There still remains for our consideration a phenomenon, 
intimately connected with the digestive process and with the 
derangements to which it is liable, — the formation of fat. This 



138 



substance may be regarded as tbe least animalized product of 
the animal body, since it does not contain any nitrogen, an 
element which, it will be remembered, is peculiarly charac- 
teristic of animalization ; nor does it contain any considerable 
portion of oxygen, but consists principally of hydrogen and 
carbon, the latter element being far less in its proportion than 
that which occurs in any of the constituents of the blood, from 
which fat is secreted. It is true that we have no certain data 
for enabling us to judge from what part of the blood the fat is 
immediately produced, nor does there appear to be any specific 
organ for its secretion ; but, as its deposition is evidently con- 
nected with the state of the digestive functions, and bears a re- 
lation to the quantity of the respiratory food produced, and as 
fat is deposited in so many parts of the body, or at least, is con- 
nected with textures of such various descriptions, it is fair to 
conclude that the blood must be the source from which it 
proceeds, and the medium through which it is distributed, and 
moreover, that the capillary vessels must constitute the organ 
for its secretion. Dr. Bostock observes that there are two 
modes in which we may suppose the fat to be produced — ^while 
in the vessels themselves, or not until it is just upon the point 
of being excreted from them. In the first case the operation 
must consist in the abstraction from the albumen or fibrin of 
its nitrogen and oxygen, and a part of its carbon; in the other, 
of the hydrogen and a part of the carbon, while the remainder 
of the elements are left in the vessels.] 

There is no doubt whatever, that in the organism of the 
body, especially in cases of disease, albuminous substances are 
frequently transformed into fat. 

The fact already mentioned, that only those animals can be 
fattened, which, in addition to a plentiful supply of starch, 
vegetable gum, &c., eat a certain proportion of albuminous 
substances, is much more easily explained by this theory, than 
by the theory of Liebig. 



139 

[Mulders discoveries in 1838 led op to the doctrine that the 
albuminous compounds of plants and animals agree in compo- 
sition and properties ; whence it was inferred that the animal 
simply took the compound of the plant, and made it a com- 
ponent part of its own body. Liebig, however, was the first 
to maintain that animals possessed the power of forming one 
kind of organic compound out of another. Upon this there 
arose a controversy, with particular reference to fat. In oppo- 
sition to Liebig's teaching, that in the animal system fat was 
producible from sugar, Dumas and Boussingault held that 
whatever fat was found in an animal being came through its 
food from without. It is now, however, matter of history that 
the French authorities have had to abandon their doctrine in 
favour of the German. Broadly, however, we may say that the 
chemical functions of the plant are those of reduction or deoxi- 
dation, whereby carbonic acid and water are deprived of their 
oxygen and moulded with nitrogen into food ; while those of 
animals are of an opposite nature, for they destroy this food by 
oxidation. The plant, therefore, is the machine or medium 
whereby carbonic acid, water, and ammonia, are converted into 
new compounds, and light and heat are transmuted into 
chemical affinity ; and the animal is the medium or machine 
whereby these compounds are destroyed, and their affinities 
changed into other manifestations of force, and finally into 
heat. In this way the circuit of change is completed ; and it 
is not difficult to trace the phenomena of vitality to the cos- 
mical forces which the plant had imprisoned. The illustrious 
chemist and distinguished orator, M. J. Dumas, has thus 
expressed himself on this subject: — **The first studies we 
pursue on the chemical phenomena of life, teach us that 
plants create, and animals destroy, organic matter. The 
sun appears as the agent by whose means this matter is pro- 
duced, and combustion by the air that animals breathe, ai^ the 
process that destroys them, in order to restore their elements to 



140 

fbe state of 'farnte'inaltec. The diendealforees placed at the 
di^osal of fife descending m the earth under the form of 
ligfat, disappear by radiating off into space nnder the form of 
heat. An equifibniim obtains between the Tegetable and 
animal Idngdoms for receipts and disbursements, represented 
by these two forms of motion — U^it and beat, and the amount 
of animal fife which may be developed on the globe is mea- 
aored by the amoont of food that regetable life has prepared 
for it. The dark rays of heat appear to carry off from the earth 
that which the radiant and brilliant fight has spread OTer 
it." — The Faradjay Lecture^ Chtwuad Xews, toL xx. p. 4. 

Bat the most beantifol instance of this transformation 
occars in nature. While the frait of the olire tree is forming, 
the sap of the stem is sweet and foil of starch ; it continues so 
till the product, which makes the trees Taluable, b^ins to 
swell the berries : then in exact proportion as the oil is ela- 
borated, the saccharine matter decreases in that which suppfies 
the nutriment to it. When the harvest is ready, not a trace of 
sweetness remains. These instances are evidence of the possi- 
biUty of changes occurring of a less simple nature than had 
been suggested, and of the capabiUty of other elements of food 
for conversion into fat.] 

I will finally draw your attention to the well-known &ct 
that the nourishment of the muscles suffers considerably from 
an immoderate development of tsi ; corpulent men are therefore 
generaUy not only not powerfol, but often feeble. And the 
diseases most feared by these persons, such as enlargement of 
the heart and dropsy, arise principally from the muscular tissue 
of the heart being deprived of its normal nourishment, and 
being also partially expended in the production of fat. 

[Fat is no part of an animal ; an animal is the same without 
it as with it. In all cases of conversion of tissue, It never 
appears but as a loss, and is Uterally no part of, or essential 
part, of an animal. And although Mr. Hunter in his days 




141 

conid not establish bat on theoretical grounds the fact of 
this degeneration, we may, by adapting ourselves to the ad- 
vancement of science, use language even stronger than he did 
of that inferior material, fat, which commonly advances as life 
is weakened, and is one of the best possible evidences of decline, 
and proof of debility. We may remark in cases of fatty de- 
generation or decay, that the substance which replaces the 
highly-organized animal matter, is not utterly inorganic. It is 
less organized, and less organizable, but still capable of being 
called alive. Of our living bodies, fat is apart and a necessary 
part; but still it is not capable of performing the highly vital 
duties of muscular tissue, of being as thoroughly alive. De- 
generated products, therefore, so long as they form part of the 
body, may still be said to be alive, but less than the normal 
tissues they replace ; and degenerate growth may be justly 
described as " diminished life," — or in other words, ** partial 
death." Degeneration in short, is a more or less relapse 
into a lower and lower form of organic life, and exhibits itself 
therefore in a variety of grades and amounts. Occurring in 
various parts, it occasions three-quarters of the chronic ill- 
nesses which give work to the physician. Let it be well under* 
stood that these half-living tissues are by no means necessarily 
lessened in size. A battered, tinkered vessel is often much 
bulkier than a strong new one ; and in the same way these 
under-nourished parts are often enlarged, and so have been 
wrongly supposed to be over- nourished. They often attain a 
most cumbersome weight and bigness, without really con- 
taining tissue enough to do their work ; they become, in truth, 
a foreign substance. Sometimes they acquire what seems like 
a parasitic life, and grow as if independent of the body which 
they inhabit. — Chambers.] 

Whichever hypothesis is correct, it is a fact universally ad- 
mitted by the scientific world, that by freely supplying the 
" means of respiration," an extensive development of fat is pro* 



142 

daced in the body, and that, by redacing that supply, not only 
no new fat is deposited, bat that which has been deposited is 
consumed as material for heat, and Tanishes out of the 
Uasaes. 

I think that I have shown you that the results communicated 
by Mr. Banting are in perfect harmony with the opinions and 
experience of physiologists, and I have now only to draw your 
attention to the explanation of those results, according to the 
principles of my own special profession, Tiz., that of practical 
medicine. 

I shall, therefore, attempt to describe the relation which the 
principles of the Banting system bear to those principles which 
are followed by the faculty. Although the expression is hardly 
appropriate, it is unnecessary to correct Mr. Banting when 
he calls his immoderate corpulence a '' tiresome parasite." 
The correct idea was in his mind, that corpulence could not 
properly be called an illness, so long as the functions of the 
body did not materially suffer from it. Medical science like- 
wise hesitates to designate every little increase in the normal 
production of fat as an illness, although the dangers which 
arise from an excessive degree of fat have always been suffi- 
ciently appreciated by the physicians of antiquity. 

Medical men have always treated corpulence more by a 
system of diet, than by prescribing drugs. Galen, one of the 
greatest physicians of ancient times, who lived in the second 
century after Christ, has written a work specially on ** the fat 
and lean mode of life." And we find in the works of Hippo- 
crates (who lived at an earlier period, and was a contemporary 
of Pericles), and of Celsus (who lived in the time of the Emperor 
Augustus), precise dietetic prescriptions for those who are cor- 
pulent and who desire to become thin. At the present day 
also, certain specified rules of diet form the most important 
part in the treatment of corpulence, and we may confidently 
assert, that our modes of treatment are founded entirely upon 
rational principles. 



143 

Scientific medical men have always endeayonred to discover 
the laws according to which the remedies applied may lessen 
or modify the progress of disease^ hut our knowledge of the 
intricate processes which it is necessary to follow in most dis- 
eases is still too saperficialy and our experience of the changes 
produced by medicine in the economy of the body is too limited, 
to permit us to say that great results have yet been attained. 
The treatment of many, indeed I may say of most, diseases is 
therefore still merely empirical. But the treatment of corpu- 
lence is different. The object to be attained is much more 
definite, and our knowledge of the means and result is much 
more accurate than in the case of most diseases. The physio- 
logical efi'ect of the agents employed is much better ascertained 
than that of most drugs. For this reason we are justified in 
saying that the treatment of corpulence, which is now taught, 
is a strictly rational treatment. 

The object which the scientific physician has to consider in 
the treatment of corpulence is twofold. 

1st. He must increase the process of combustion, which the 
body is constantly undergoing, to such a degree that all super- 
fluous fat shall be consumed. 

2ndly. He must reduce the addition of fresh " materials " of 
combustion until the accumulated surplus fat is absorbed. The 
means by which the production of heat can be increased are 
pretty well known to us, and we can develope most of them 
artificially. Fever, an illness with which many of you are ac- 
quainted, is caused by a too highly increased production of 
warmth. The body is overheated, and its normal temperature, 
about 30 degrees Eeaumur, is raised several degrees, and this it 
is that causes the patient to complain of glowing heat, burning 
thirst, and which accounts for the reddened fiEu^e, heated appear- 
ance, galloping pulse, and other visible symptoms of fever. 
Naturally more material is required to sustain this overheating 
of the body, than for maintaining it at its normal temperature. 

Fever '^ consumes " in the fullest sense of the word| for it 



":^ 



144 

consumes by means of the combustion of the component parts 
of the body in addition to the accumulated fatty portions. Every 
one knows that with persons suffering from fever the fat dis- 
appears, and they become thin. In a short time they lose many 
pounds in weight, and thus the artificial production of fever 
would prove an infallible method of quickly reducing immode- 
rate corpulence : but such a method would be a wanton attack 
on the organism of the body, of which no one would be guilty. 
It would be a direct violation of the only motto, ** to cure if 
possible, 'cito, tuto, et jucundef " that is, quickly, safely, and 
pleasantly. 

There are fortunately other means at our disposal by which 
the same end can be surely though slowly attained (non cito 
sed tuto). 

Every motion of the muscles produces a certain proportion 
of heat, or to speak scientifically liberates a certain number of 
particles of warmth, which are thus lost to the body. This 
loss is, however, immediately made good by an increased 
development of warmth and an increased energy of com- 
bustion. 

[We have seen that two substances exist in the body called 
fibrine and albumen, the former entering into the composition 
of the muscles, the latter that of the nerves. Now these sub- 
stances are contained in our vegetable food, and it appears that 
they are directly conveyed from the vegetable to the animal. 
We have no knowledge of any power in the animal system to 
manufacture these substances. All the nitrogen which is con- 
tained in an animal is derived from the vegetable kingdom. 
It is the peculiar property of the plant to be able, in the minute 
cells of which it is composed, to convert the carbonic acid and 
ammonia which it gets from the atmosphere into fibrine and 
albumen. By easy chemical prpcesses we can separate these 
substances from our vegetable food. Wheat, barley, oats, rye, 
rice, all contain fibrine, some of them also albumen. Potatoes, 
cabbages, and asparagus contain albumen. It is a well-ascer- 



145 

tained teict that those suhstances which contain most of these 

** nutritious secretions" as they have been called, support life 

the longest. Liebig calls them " flesh-formers." They undergo 

little change during digestion, and present themselves in a 

pure state in the blood, where they are directly employed in 

the renewal of nervous and muscular matter. They are the 

agents which renew the thinking and working powers of man. 

They are probably destroyed at the same moment that the 

carbon is converted into carbonic acid gas, but m their last 

stage they pass off the body in the form of urea. The nitrogen 

lost in the destruction of the fibrine and the albumen is found 

in the nitrogen of the urea. Mere existence is represented by 

the loss of carbonic acid, but the work of the system in its 

thought and its muscular labour is represented by the nitrogen 

of the urea. Nor is this the mere dream of the theorist : it 

has been practically demonstrated that increased stress upon 

the nervous system, viz., brain-work, emotion, or excitement 

from, disease, increases the quantity of v/rea and the demand 

for nitrogenous food. In the same manner the amount of urea 

thrown off is the representation of the amount of muscular 

work done. — Lankester, Journal of Social Science'], 

By every physical exertion or movement of the muscles we 
use up, in proportion to the violence of that exertion, a certain 
amount of the corporeal fuel of combustion, just as a loco- 
motive engine, in order to run a certain distance, consumes so 
much wood or coal. But long before one of our intelligent 
countrymen discovered this law, according to which a certain 
amount of heat is converted into a corresponding amount of 
mechanical exertion, the facts which now enable us to under- 
stand this discovery were well known, and frequently used by 
physicians in the treatment of corpulence. Every one must 
have noticed that violent muscular exertion and excessive hard 
work checks the development of fat ; that men and animals 
become lean from hard work, and that agricultural labourers, 

L 



146 

blacksmiths^ and all men who undertake rough work are 
generally thin, although they absorb a plentiful supply of 
*' the means of respiration." 

In many villages the inhabitants live chiefly on potatoes 
and cider, and only eat meat occasionally in the course of the 
year, and yet in spite of this plentiful supply of " the means of 
respiration," we seldom meet a ** Banting figure" amongst 
them. It can easily, therefore, be understood why medical 
men have always earnestly recommended all corpulent people 
to take much exercise, to sleep little, and to undertake some 
mechanical labour. 

It may interest you to hear that the numerous corpulent 
persons who yearly visit Karlsbad, Marienbad, Kissingen, and 
other similar places, even now minutely follow the rules which 
were established by Hippocrates more than 2000 years ago 
for the cure of his fellow-creatures who then suffered from 
similar complaints. 

The morning walk of an hour's duration exactly corresponds 
with the precepts of the followers of Esculapius, who ordered 
corpulent people to take a long walk before their breakfast. 

It is true that poor Mr. Banting derived no benefit from his 
rowing: indeed^ whilst taking that exercise, he became still 
more corpulent, but you must remember that his appetite then 
increased to a fabulous extent, and you know with what kind 
of nourishment he satisfied it. We can, however, confidently 
assert that Mr. Banting would soon have become thin if he had 
again tried rowing, when he later adopted his system of diet. 

I will only mention one more mode of accelerating combus- 
tion, or £^s it is ordinarily called " the waste of the body," viz., 
by the application of cold, in the form of fresh and salt water 
baths, shower baths, and cold sponging. It has been ascer- 
tained by testing the temperature of the body during a cold 
bath or shower bath, that during these processes, although 
giving out a considerable amount of heat, it retains its normal 
temperature : which fact proves that a violent expenditure of 



147 

heat, caused by the combustion of the constituent parts of the 
body, considerably stimulates the production of warmth. At 
any rate, cold baths and similar applications were recommended 
in cases of corpulence, long before the principles were discovered 
which accounted for their favourable eflFect, and explained the 
results attained by them. 

I shall not allude to other methods which are used for 
accelerating combustion and promoting the absorption of food. 
From all that I have said, you must be convinced that there 
are powerful means at our disposal, to enable us to accomplish 
the first task which science has placed before us in the treat- 
ment of corpulence. Those methods of cure, of the success of 
which there is no doubt, are not alluded to in the prescriptions 
of the '* Banting system." 

I will now shortly allude to the second principle which, as 
you know, requires that the supply of new materials of com- 
bustion should be withheld, until the accumulated fat in the 
body has been consumed. It cannot be positively stated that 
this principle, although its correctness is generally acknow- 
ledged, has yet received in practice the attention which it 
deserves. In order precisely to carry out its principles, it 
would seem to be necessary to reduce, as much as possible, 
the supply of all those " means of respiration " which I have 
already mentioned, such as fat, sugar, starch, vegetable gum, 
and those substances which during the process of digestion 
are converted into sugar. It is true that more than 1800 
years ago, on purely empiric grounds, Celsus recommended to 
thin persons **pinguia et dulcia," Le,, fat and sweet aliments, 
and forbade the same to corpulent persons. 

This maxim of the old Soman savant, has by no means 
been overlooked. Gerhard Van Swieten, who in the last 
century was summoned by the Empress Maria Theresa from 
Leyden to Vienna, and who transferred the splendour of that 
Dutch University to the Imperial metropolis, expressly men- 
tions this dictum of Celsus in his celebrated commentaries on 



148 

tbe Aphorisms of his great teacher, Boerhaave ; and Van 
Swieten endeavoured to explain it upon the then known 
scientific principles, and to account for tbe tad, that the use 
of vegetable aliments has a tendency to produce &t He 
maintains that there must be a great amount of secreted fat in 
vegetable food : for cows, which feed only on hay and water, 
are able to produce such a fatty substance as milk, and when 
the secretion of milk ceases, they have a tendency to become 
immoderately fat from the same nourishment. One would 
think that this simple and evident fact which Van Swieten 
quotes, would have suggested to all thinking medical men the 
prohibition of the immoderate use of bread and potatoes, as 
well as of fat, to corpulent persons. At any rate, when Liebig's 
discoveries of the laws of nourishment^ and the production of 
fat became known to every scientific man, one would be in- 
clined to think that rich aliments containing starch and sugar 
would have been generally forbidden in the treatment of 
corpulence. But it is not so. 

Although reasoning upon sound principles, thin persons 
were recommended to take a plentiful supply of fat, and also 
of other ''means of respiration," such as soups, chocolate, 
sweet grapes, extract of malt, and strong malt liquors, yet, 
until lately, it was thought sufficient in order to obtain the 
reverse eflFect, i.e,, to make persons thin, merely to forbid the 
use of fat — and not to recommend an abstention from other 
means of respiration, such as the so-called fat producers. I 
will here give a striking example. At Carlsbad, that refuge 
for all corpulent persons, it is considered a ciimc to eat butter 
or fat gravies, but the patient is allowed to drink coffee with 
milk and sugar, and to partake freely of pastry and sweet 
puddings. 

THE END. 



BOOKS 

FUBUSHBD BY 

HENRY RENSHAW, 

866, 8TBAND, LONDON. 



Sixth Edition, 2 vols. 8vo, cloth, price £1 lis. 6d. 

THE PEACTICE OF MEDICINE. 

By Thomas Hawkeb Tanneb, M.D., F.L.S. The Sixth Edition, Enlarged 
and Improyed, with a very large collection of Eormulse, and a complete Bee* 
tion on the Diaeaaes of Women. 

*' Dr. Tanner has always shown in his writings that he possesses a peculiar 
&cnlty of committing to print just that kind of information which the practitioner 
most needs in every-day practice, and of rejecting useless theory." — Lancet, 
July 24, 1869. 

Second Edition, demy 8vo, price 188. 

THE SIGNS AND DISEASES OF PREGNANCY. 

By Thokas Hawkeb Tanneb, M.D., F.L JS. 

" The author's more extended experience has enabled him to add greatly to its 
practical value, and it now stands forth the best book on the subject." — Medical 
Times and Gazette. 

*«* This New Edition, thoroughly revised and enlarged, is illustrated by 

Chromo-lithographs and Woodcuts. 

Fcap., cloth, price 10s. 6d. 

AN INDEX OF DISEASES AND THEIE TEEAT- 

MENT. By Thomas Hawkks Tanneb, M.D., F.L.S. 

*' To the busy practitioner it must be an advantage to see at a glance on a 
quarter or half a page the principal point in any disease about which he may wish 
to have his memory refreshed or his mind stimulated. It will be found a most 
valuable companion to the judicious practitioner.*' — Lancet, 

Third Edition, price Ss. 6d. 

MEMOEANDA ON POISONS. By Thomas Hawkes 

Tanneb, M.D. Third and completely Eevised Edition. 

This Manual is intended to assist the practitioner in the diagnosis and treat- 
ment of Poisoning, and especially to prevent his attributing to natural disease 
symptoms due to the administration of deadly drugs. 

Second Edition, in fcap. 8vo, price 7s. 6d. 

A MANUAL OF CLINICAL MEDICINE AND 

PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. By T. H. Tanneb, M.D., F.L.S. The Second 
Edition, revised and enlarged by Tilbuby Fox, M.D. Lond., M.R.C.P. 

This Manual forms a complete Guide to Hospital Practice, and is intended to 
remove those difficulties which the student must encounter in first studying diseases 
at the bedside. 

Second Edition, in demy 8vo, price 14b. 

A PEACTICAL TEEATISE ON THE DISEASES 

OF INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. By T. H. Tankeb, M.D., F.L.S. 
The Second Edition, revised and much enlarged, by Alfbbd Mbadowb, 
M.D. Lend., M.R.C.P. 



Boohs published by Henry Benshaw, 



MR. RENSHAW'S MANUALS. 



Dr. Druitt's Snrgeon's Vade Mecnm. The 10th Edition. 

With 350 wood eognviiiga^ price 12g. 6(L 

Dr. Hooper's Physician's Vade Mecnm. By Dr. Guy 

and Dr. JoHV Hablkt. The Eighth Edition, with many wood engrayings, 
price 12f. 6d. 

Dr. Chnrchiirs Theory and Practice of Midwifery, 

Fifth Edition, with 123 fine wood engraTingB, price 128. 6d. 

Dr. Fowler's Medical Vocabulary. Containing an ex- 
planation of the terma used in Medicine, and Acoeasoiy Sciences, price 78. 

Dr. Tanner's Index of Diseases, and their Treatment. 

Price lOs. 6d 

Dr. Tanner and Dr. Tilbury Fox's Manual of Clinical 

Medicine. Second Edition. Price 78. 6d. 

Mr. Lawson on Diseases of the Eye. With wood 

engravings and copious Formolse. Price 78. 6d. 

Malgaigne's Manual of Operative Surgery. Translated 

by Dr. Bbittak. With wood engravings, price 128. 6d. 

Dr. Knox's Manual of Human Anatomy. 250 wood 

engravings, the vessels coloured, price 128. 6d« 

Dr. Guy's Principles of Forensic Medicine. Third 

Edition, with 193 wood engravings, price 128. 6d. 

Milne-Edwards' Manual of Zoology. Translated by 

Dr. Knox. Second Edition enlarged, with 572 wood engravings, price Ss. 6d. 

Cazenave on Diseases of the Skin. Translated by Dr. 

BuBOESS. Second Edition, price 98. 

Abemethy's Lectures on Anatomy, Surgery, and 

Pathology. Second Edition, price 68. 6d. 

Dr. Green's Introduction to Pathological Anatomy, with 

wood engraviogs. Price 8s. 6d. 

Schill's Outlines of Pathological Semeiology. Trans- 
lated by Dr. Spillan, price 78. 6d. 

Dr. Meadows' Manual of Midwifery. Second Edition, 

much enlaiged, with woodcuts, price 8s. 6d. 



356, Strand, London. 



POCKET MANUALS. 

In royal 32mo, cloth. 



Dr. Fox on Skin Diseases. Second Edition, woodcuts, 

price 68. 

Dr. Silver's Outlines of Botany. 200 woodcuts, 

price 5s. 6d. 

Mr. Clarke's Manual of Surgery. Price 4s. 6d. 

Mr. Clarke's Supplement on Bandaging. Price 2s. 6d. 

The two bound together, price 7s. 

Meade's Manual for Apothecaries' Hall. Third Edition, 

price 6s. 6d. 

E. O. Ward's Outlines of Human Osteology. Second 

Edition, price 5s. 

Dr. Meadows' Prescriber's Companion. Second Edition, 

price 88. 6d. 

Mr. HUles' Essentials of Physiology. Price Ss. 6d. 

Mr. Hilles' The Anatomist. Being a complete descrip- 
tion of the Anatomy of the Human Body, price 28. 6d. 

Mr. Hilles on Begional Anatomy; or, a Ghiide to 

Operationfl in Soigery. Price 28. 6d. 

Dr. Tanner's Memoranda on Poison. Price 3g. 6d. 



SMALL MANUALS FOR WAISTCOAT POCKET. 

Dr. Bigby's Obstetric Memoranda. Fourth Edition. 

By Dr. MsADOWBy price Is. 0d« 

Dr. Grill's Epitome of Botany. For Medical Students, 

price la. 

Dr. Tanner's Medical Fonnnke. Beprinted from the 

SeooDd Edition of the Pnctioe of Pbyae, priee la. 



Dr. Golding'g Synopsis of Percussion and Ansenltation. 

Price IJL 

The Pharmaeopo^ of King's College HospitaL Price Is. 
'Mr. Foote's Memoranda Bespecting the More Common 

Mr. Bowers Memoranda for the Boyal Co11efi» of 

ThMtStiom. By Mr. fliu«v ffSee an & 



Boots published by Henry Benshaw, 



Andral'g Cliniqae Medicale; or, BepoTts of Medical 

Gmm. CondeMcd aad Twidaied, with O tamaiiuw eztnetod from the 
writiDgB of the nortdirtiBginriied Medical Aathon. Bf D. SmxAX, M J)., 
FcOo^ cf the KiBg lad 00660*0 CoDcfe of FhjndwM m IrefaDd. 

*' We leeooiaMod tine valaeUe book to the attcatioB ef ov 
MtdietU Ckttwnietd Rewitm. 



Coloured, ptiee 31i. 0d. ; ploin, 21il 

An Anatomical Figure in Plaster, displaying the Snper- 

fieiel Moideiiof the Homaa Bodj, for the oee of artiste, and aeeompankd bj a 
DeseritftiTe Kcj, illostrated bj Woodcoti^ haTiiig the names of the difierent 
mnsdes dearij gives. 

Fcap., doth, firiee 2s. 6d. 

Dr. Beigel on the Human Hair. Its Structure, Grrowth, 

Diseases, and their Treatntent. Dlastnited bj wood engraYings. 



Id 8to, doth, price 10s. 0d. 

The Nervous System of the Human Body: as ex- 

plained in a Series cf Papers read before the Boyal Sodetj of London. With 
an AppenHiz of Cases and Consiiltatioiis on Nenroos Diseases. Bj SiB 
Chables Beli^ K.G.H., F.R.S.S. L. & £., Professor in the UniTereil^ of 
Edinbtirgb, &c. Third Edition, with sixteen highly finished steel engravings, 
and three additional Papers on the Nerves of the Encephalon. 

"It has become, and will remain a standard work on the Physiology and 
Patho]^^ of the "^^snimM System, an imperishaUe monameot of the anihor's 
genius.'^ifeciicaZ Timet. 

In fcap., cloth, price 1%. 6d. 

Brierre de Boismont on Hallucinations. A History 

and Explanation of Apparitions, Visions, Dreams, Ecstasy, Magnetism, and 
Somnambulism. Tran^ted from the French. By Bobxbt T. Hulice, F. L. S. 



In royal 82mo, price Ss. 6d. 

Bower's Memoranda on Difficult Subjects in Anatomy, 

Sargery, and Physiology. Forming a Pocket Companion for the young 
Surgeon, or for Students preparing for examinations. Third Edition, corrected 
and enlarged. By M. W. Hilles, formerly Lecturer on Anatomy and Physio- 
logy, at the Westminster Hospital School of Medicine. 



Post 8vo, cloth, price 48. 

An Account of the Origin, Spread, and Decline of the 

Epidemic Fevers of Sierra Leone. With observations on Sir William 
Pym*s review of the ''Beport on the Climate and Diseases of the African 
Station/' By Alzxakdeb Bbtson, M.D., fi.N. 



In 8vo, cloth, price Ss., or with coloured plates, price 14s. 

Diseases of the Skin of the Exposed Surfaces. In- 
cluding those of the Face, Head, and Hands. With the latest improvements 
in their Treatment. By T. H. Bdbgess, M.D. 

" We cordially recommend Dr. Burgess's work to the profession as the best 
book on Skin Diseases with which we are acquainted.** — Mfiii^ iZVmef. 



356, Strand, London. 



In foap. doth, price 9s. 

Cazenave's Manual of Diseases of the Skin. Translated 

with Notes and Additions. By T. H. BuBOEBB, M.D. Second Edition, 
considerably enlarged and improved. 

''The chief cause of the great popularity of this work is itf euentially praotloal 
character. ' * — Lancet. 

" Dr. Burgess's translation appears to us the best and cheapest work on diieaiM 
of the skin that has ever yet been published.'* — Dublin MedkcU J<mmal, 



In 2 vols. 8voy cloth, price £8. 

Chelius' System of Surgery. Translated from the 

Grerman, and accompanied with Additional Notes and ObservatioBf. By 
Jornr F. South, formerly Professor of Surgery to the Boyal Oolleg« 6t 
Surgeons, and Surgeon to St. Thomas's Hospitol. 

** The most learned and complete s vstematic treatise now extant. The deiorip- 
tion of Surgical diseases, and indeed the whole of the pathological department, are 
most valuable." — Edinbv/rgh Medical Jowmal, 



Fcap. cloth, price 12f. 6d. 

Dr. Churchill's Theory and Practice of Midwifery. 

The Fifth Edition, corrected and improved, with Eztenfive Statif ticf, and 
illustrated by 119 wood engravings. 

"There is no book in the English language equal to Dr. ObnrcbflTf •• a 
guide to the junior practitioner : it is clear in style, met h odical in arraagemant^ and 
sound in matter." — La/neet, 

"The letterprees contains aH that the practical man can deeire, and the illnetra- 
tions are numerous, weU-choeeo, aad ci tbe mofft elegant deeeripUoiL" — Propincial 
MedicalJowmaL 



In royal 32mo, sewed, price Am, 6d^ or with the sopplemeDt oo baadafM^ prioe 7ir 

A Manual of the Practice of Surgery. By William 

Fairlis Claku, M.A«, F.R.C.8., Sorgeoo to tb« Si. (feorgc^f and 0i. 
James's Dispensary. 

'* It ia omcifle, op to the bet renlte is aorgkal stady, tmd. qnile rsBaUe*^-* 
LaneeL 



Is njal 92mOf price 2a. €A* 

Bandages and Splints. IVith special reference to the 

wants of students preparing for tauaaimtifm at the B^yal Colkfe of 8«ffM«i. 
By William Iaimum ClIsu, HA^ F.ltC^. Bem§ a — ppiwwt to tlk 
Antikor^s Manual <«f the Practice of Sorgefy. 

''Mr. darkcTs book ia jwi the one we sboold noommtrndT^Maluta Timu 
mmd GaattU. 

"Thia fitt^e wwk wiDU cMsenllf m^MLr—LcmeO. 



In Ifaaov docii, acved, price Siu 

The Piactitiofiier^s Fharmaeopagoa and UmTertal FormU' 

r<iRi|pi Miiifial AntfcoritfM ; wlA an AU4n4^ 




Fvm; M^tLCJL 



Book9 puUiiked ly Henry RaUkaWj 



Mysteries of the Vital Element. In connexion with 

tbeasa, Nerr<!>G« Coeggraop, ft»i Cm3v« Fsbcsaco. IfodeiB S|wrin»K«m 
Ezp^air^d. 5eeoad g^-'g^^ Br Bi»iix H. CoLLXO;, M.D., I^coivcr of 



On the Belative Inflaence of Nature and Art in the 

Cvr» tA Sjf liia. Bj Thokxs WnzrD Coosx, Smgcon to the Bojai Fie« 

8t«^ aevcd, price 2l 

Urethral Diseases: their Causes, Complications, and 

Soeoeapfial Treatment wi'Jioat Copaiba. Bt TImibu W&kdesi Cooks, Saxgeon 
to the Bojal Fiee Hospitaj. The Tbiid l^diuon. 



ToL 1, Svo, doth, priee 25a. 

Cooper's Dictionary of Practical Surgeiy, and Encyclo- 
pedia of Sorgical Scienoe. New Edition, bronght down to the pieaent time. 
By Samczl a. LiiTE, Surgeon to St. Mary's Ho^taL ■^rrif^'*^ by Tanoos 
Eminent Snzgeons. To be completed in 2 toIb. 

Thirtieth Edition, icap. doth, priee 2e. 0d. 

Sure ^Methods of Attaining a Long and Healthful Life, 

with the Means of Connecting a Bad Constitatioo. Translated from the 
of Lewis Cobsabo. 



In 8to^ doth, price IOb. 6d. 

Sketches of the Medical Topography, and Native 

Diseases of the Gulf of Guinea, Western Africa. By William F. 
'Damoj*, M.D. 

Fost 8yo, doth, price Ss. 

On Diseases of the Throat : their New Treatment by 

the Aid of the Laryngoscope. By Thomas Dixom, MJ>. 



8to, sewed, price Is. QdL 

On the Nature and Treatment of Clergyman's Sore 

Throat. By Thomas Dixoa, M.D. 



Fcap. doth, price 12s. 6d. 

Draitt's Surgeon's Vade Mecum : A Manual of Modem 

Sargery. The Tenth Edition, thoroughly corrected, much enlarged, carefully 
brought up to the present time, and illostrated by 375 highly finished wood 
engravings. 

" An epitome of British Surgery in the nineteenth century without a riyaL'* — 
Lomcet, Nov. 6, 1870. 



New Edition preparing, price 2s. 6d. 

Dr. Druitt on Cheap Wines : a Eeport on the Quality, 

Wholesomeness, Frice, and Use in Diet and Medicine of the Cheap Wines 
from France, Italy, Austria, Greece^ and Hungary, imported in pursuance of 
Mr. Gladstone's liberal policy. 



856, Strand^ London. 



Fcap. sewed, prioe Is. 

The New Medical Act; with Explanatory Notes for 

the Guidance of Practitioners and Students. By R. M. Qlover, M.D., 
F.R.S.E., Licentiate of the Royal College of l^hysicians ; and J. B. Daviobok, 
of Lincoln's-inn, Barrister-at Law. 

'* A very able and lucid exposition.** — Lancet. 



Price 8s. 6d., in cloth. 

Milne-Edwards' Manual of Zoology. Translated from 

the last French Edition by Robert Knox, M.D. Second Edition, with many 
additional Observations, and illustrated by 572 highly-finished wood engrav- 
ings. Edited by 0. Carter Blake, F.G.S., F.A.8.Ij. 

''The translation of this admirable text-book cannot fail to prove in the highest 
degree serviceable not merely to students of zoology, but to all who propose placing 
their general education upon a sound and liberal basis.*' — Lcmcet, 

** It is clearly arranged, profusely illustrated, and handsomely printed — It if a 
good text-book for students, both medical and general." — Medical Timet. 



In fcap., cloth, price 7s. 

The Medical Vocabulary: containing a Concise Ex- 
planation of upwards of 10,000 of the Terms used in Medicine and the 
Accessory Sciences. By Robert Fowler, M.D. Edin. 

~ We have tested its pages rather freely, and have scarcely found missing any 
word of which the reader of a modem scientific work can require an explanation. 
He first gives the derivation of the word, and then explains its full meaning, to- 
gether with the way in which it is employed. Dr. Fowler has performed his task 
with considerable ability." — Lancet, 

Post 8vo, cloth, price 6s. 

A Complete History of the Case of the Welsh Fasting- 

Girl ; with Comments thereon, and Observations on Death from Starvation. 
By Robert Fowler, M.D. Edin. 



In royal 32mo, cloth, price 6s. 

Skin Diseases : their Description, Pathology, Diagnosis, 

and Treatment. With Wood IllustratioDs and Copious FormulsB. The Second 
Edition. By Tilbdet Fox, M.D. Lond., M.B.C.P., Pbjsiciaii to the Skin 
Department of University College Hofpitsi. 

" Contains a va«t amount of matter of all kinds, much of which hac oerer 
before been broogbt together in one volome." — Lam4Xt, 

'* Dr. Fox has prodooed a book wide in its scope, jet condse aad practical in itf 
details.** — Edinbwrgk Medical J<mnuU. 

'* We have no bantation in saying that it is the best book on the sdcgect 
published.** — ItuUam Medical GauUe, 



In 8vo, ek»th, prioe 3e. 6d* 

Eczema : its Nature and Treatment, and incidentally 

the Tnflttpnfae of Constitotionai Cooditions of 8kio Dmttmm, Betni^ ibm 
IjeUaoaihuk Lectorei for the Seasioo 1$^— -70. Deliver^ before the l^edical 
Society of Loodon, by TuMJUJ Fox, M.D. I^omL, M.B,aP„ FeUov of 
Vmweniij CiAkg^ Pl^yskaiia to tke fikia DepMteortof Usivosiitj Coilem 



8 Boob pub&hed by Hiauy Stnskaw^ 

On the Therapeutic Application a( Ekctzo-Magnetism, 

Fbohep, Uoetar of MfffioM, Bofiik TiiMktiii froB tfce Gchma Iij 
B. 31. Lawhdkz, MJ). 

Is fiBi|i. Svo^ priee 8b. Cd. 

An Introdnction to Pathology and Moibid Anatomy. 

mattnted br BumcroH CdcIj cngrrnvvd woodntL Bjr T. HBarn Gnxx, 
M.D. Loud., M.S.CJ'., Lectarer on Pathology awl Mmlrid Anatoaj at 
Chaniig-€n« Hcwpiftal Ifedkal Sdiool, and Senkr AaBtant-Flijsdaii to 
Charing-croM Ho^KtaL 

** Practitioiien and stadcota wiO fiad h a Twy vadal 

'• lu piupoae ia aduraUj Inlfilkd.''— Jfttf. ^aMa. 



Fcap. 8vv^ doChy priee 7a. 

A Treatise on Hooping-cough ; its Complications, 

Patbologj, and Tcrmmaliofia, with ita Saceeaafnl TreabncBi hj a Nev 
Bemedj. By SirGiOBGKD. Gibb, Bart, MJ)., LL.D., AanlantFkjaiGiaB 
to Weatminatcr HospitaL 

**It is a thoroagfalj practical work, and ia a TahiaUe addition to medical 
fiteratore.''— XoMct. 

Boat 8to, cloth, priee 12k. 6d. 

On Mineral Waters: their Physical and Medicinal 

Properticfl. With Deacriptioiia of the Different Mineral Waten of Great 
Britain and the Continent, and DiieetionB for their Adminiatratiofi. 
niostrated bj copper pbites and woodcota. By B. M. Glotbb, M.D., 
X. B.o.£. 

^ If any patient wanta to select a spa for himself Br. Gloyer has proTided all 
tbe materials for forming a judgment." — Th€ Oridc 



In 8¥o, doth, price 78. 6d. 

Lectures on Eruptive Fevers. Delivered at St. Thomas's 

Hospital By George Grkgobt, M.D., FJLC.P. 



In 8vo, doth, price ISs, 

Commentaries on the Surgery of the War in Portugal, 

Spain, France^ and the Netheriands, showing the Improvementa made daring 
and since that period in the great art a^ science of Surgery, in all the 
subjects to which th^ relate. Fifth Edition, reriaed to 1853, with woodcuts. 
By G. J. GuTHBiE, F.B.S. 

** This work of the distinguished author, the only great surgeon whom the war 
produced, will find a place in every surgical iilnury throughout the dyilized 
world.*'— Xcmeef. 

" We can thoroughly and safely recommend this work to the careful perusal of 
naTal and military surgeons.'' — Medical Timei, 



In fcap. cloth, price 12s. 6d. 

Principles of Forensic Medicine. By William A. Gut, 

M.B. Cantab., F.B.S., Professor of Forensic Medicine in ling's College, 
London. Third Edition, revised, enlarged, and copiously illustrated by 
wood engravings. 

''This well-known book, which combines the conciseness of a handbook with 
the authority of an original treatise, is up to the time in those fine points of Che- 
mistry and Jrhysiology which have such important bearings on Forensic Medicine, 
and contains very numerous and very admirable engravings." — Lancet, 



356, Strand^ London. 



In crown Syo, doth, price 26. 6d. 

Public Health : a Popular Introduction to Sanitary 

Science. Being a History of the Prevalent and Fatal DiBeases of the Englifh 
Population from the Earliest Times to the End of the Eighteenth Oentuiy. 
B7 W. A. Gut, M.B. Cantab., F.B.S., Professor of Forensio Medicine and 
Hygiene in King's College, London. 



tn fcap. sewed, price 2s. 6d. 

The Ear in Health and Disease. With Practical 

Eemarks on the Prevention and Treatment of Deafhess. With wood en* 
gravings. By William Habvet, F.B.C.S. Fourth Edition, revised. 



In fcap. sewed, price Is. 

On Ehenmatism, Gout, and Neuralgic Headache^ in 

Relation to Deafbess, Noises in the Ear, to. The FifUi Edition. By 
William Habvxt, F.R.C.S. 



BT MB. M. W. BTLhES, FOBMEBLT LECTUBEB ON PHTSIOLOGT AT THE 
WESTMINSTEB HOSPITAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE. 

1. The Essentials of Physiology. Eoyal 32mo, cloth, 

sewed, price Ss. 6d. 

2. The Anatomist. Being a Complete Description of 

the Anatomy of the Human Body. Boyal 32mo, cloth, sewed, price 2s. 0d. 

3. Eegional Anatomy : containing a Description of the 

most important regions of the floman Body, and designed as ft Ooide in the 
performance of the Principal Operations in Surgery. Boyal 32niOy elolh, 
sewed, price 2s. 6d. 

The Eighth Edition, in fcap, 8to, cloth, price 12s. 6d« 

Hooper s Physician's Vade Mecum : a Manual of the 

Principles and Practice of Physic, with an Outline of General Pathology, 
Therapeutics, and Hygiene. Eighth Edition, with wood engraving*. 
BeTised by William Acoobtub Gut, K.B. Cantab., F.Ra, Fdlow of Hm 
Boyal College of Physidana, and Physician to King^s College Hospital ; and 
JoHjr Haslkt, M.D. Loud., F.L.8., Fdlow of the Boyal CeUe^s of PbysU 
dans, and Phyndan to &L Tbomas's HospitaL 



In Syo, dotk, price te. 

An Anatomical Description of the Hnman Gravid Uterus 

and its Conteote. Bytbekte Wiluam HnrfBylLD. Seemid Bditm. Bj 
Edwajbd Biget, MJD. 

Is 12bo, doi^ priee S§, 

On Chloroform : its Compositlan and Mx>de of Adminis- 

tnlioiL Bf Cmammmb Knm, JLD. 



In Sr«, doft, pritee lai. 

ennec on DiBeaseB of the Chest and on Mediate 

AoMmkatioB. TnuMlaxed by Bib Joui F<«n% ILD. IWFMrfkXdkM, 

wiii> addiriwMJ yotee aad Fbtou 



10 Books pMiikid hs Hmiy BemAam^ 



Diseases and Injiuies of the Eve : their Medical and 

Smrpal TimiMftn, vitk eopkvi Yormmm, awl lUaitoaftBd lij Wood Es- 
gnv^Bgi. BrGKMfiS L^wwjs^ F-RX-Sl, Sof^gooB lo^ife BojbI L4aidoB 
Itnopitaj, MnmitkUmi and to 



VOEO BT EOBECT E50X. W.TIU, FirHF 

1. A Mannal of Human AnatomT; descriptiTe, prac- 

UoJy and gcnenL Ulosoaiod bj ^IM vood cagixfii^S^ ife veaKk eoloored. 
FeapL, ck«h, ptiee 12i. 6d. 

2. A ^Manual of Artistic Anatomy, for the Use of 

Scnlpt«n, Painten^ and ^mairiTri Xnnaoai vood cBgiAiu^L Feam 
dodi, price 78. 6d. 

3. The Baces of Men ; a Philosophical Inquiry into the 

Tnflowice of Baoe orer the Deadniei of Xadooa. Seeoad RfitiM niostnted 
bj Dumeroas vood cngraTingi^ and with SiqipleBaataiy Cbapten. In 
post 6to, ck4h, priee Ite. 6d. 
The Sapplenicnt majr be had ■epaiaieh', pcice 2l 6d. 



In crown 8to, doth. 

Memoir of Baron Larrey, Surgeon in Chief of the Grande 



Ann^ Tranalalfd from the French. Second 



In poac 8to, sewed, priee 2b. 6d. 

On Localized Galvanism, applied to the Treatment of 

Paraljais and Moacolar Contractiona. By Rim AM) MooES LiLWSASCZ, MJ). 



In ioKp. aewed, |Hioe 2k 6d. 

On Gout and Bheumatism, and the Curative Effects of 

Galvanism. By Bichabd Moose Lawraxce, M.D. The Second Edition. 



In 8vo^ doth, |Hioe 22b. 

Practical Surgery. By Bobert Liston. The Fourtii 

Edition, with many highly finished wood engravings. 



In fcap., doih, price 12b. 6d. 

Manual of Operative Surgery. Based on Normal and 

Pathological Anatomy. By J. F. Maloaigvk. Translated from the Fi^ich 
by FaKD£SiCK Bbitzav^ A.B., M.D., M.R.C.S.L. 



MR. kayo's works. 

Outlines of Human Pathology. 8vo, cloth, price 18s. 
A Treatise on Syphilis. Svo, cloth, price 5s. 6d. 
Anatomical and Physiological Commentaries. Svo 

boards price 5i. 



356, Strand, London. 



11 



In royal d2mo, price 6s. 6d. 

Meade's Manual for Students Preparing for Examination 

at Apothecaries' Hall, or other Medical lustitutions. Third Editiozii improved. 



Fcap. 8yo, cloth, price Ss. 6d. 

A Manual of Midwifery. Second Edition, much En- 
larged, with numerous wood engravings. By Alfb£D Meadows, M.D., 
M.K.C.P., Physiuian to the General Lying-in Hospital, and to the Hospital 
for Women. 

''We can cordially recommend this manual as accurate and practical." — Lci/ncet, 



In royal 32mo, cloth, sewed. Second Edition, price 3s. 6d. 

The Prescriber's Companion : containing a brief Descrip- 
tion of all the Preparations and Compounds in the New Edition of the BritMh 
Pharmacopoeia, together with many others in general use, arranged alphabeti- 
cally and printed in colours for easy reference, with Therapeutic Action, 
Incompatibies, and Doses for Adults and Children. Second Edition, much 
improved and greatly enlarged. By Alvbbo Mbadows, M.D., M.B.C.P., 
Physician to the Greneral Lying-in Hospital, and to the Hospital for Women. 



In 4to, cloth, price £1 lis. 6d., reduced from £Z 3s., at which the work 

was published. 

Moreau ; Icones Obstetricaa. A series of Sixty Plates, 

with descriptive letterpress, illustrative of the Art and Science of Midwifery 
in all its branches. Translated from the Freocb, with Practical ObservatUMiB 
and Tables by J. S. STBJOBiEBy M.B.C.S. 



In 24mo^ doth, price 3iu 

A Treatise on Obstetric Auscultation. By Dr. H. P, 

Nasgblbl Tnuislated from the Ctennaa by CflABUH WsM^ K.D. 



Ib one ToL, Svo, cloi^ priee 2$su 

inciples of Chenustry. Founded on Modem Theories;* 

With munerooB wood eagravingsu By 31. XAiQCn; PloCeasevr mfpr4f^4 3^ fas 
Faculty de H.6decine de Paris. TruMlatod from the Heoood Edithm, htidf 
Pi&bliaLed, by Wiluam Cranu, BUkiaat, GWe HmfitmL Rtwimi hf 
Thomas Stsyutsov. ILD.. Pcaioastrator of ftMiutaX fW wtiii ■_ Gara 



<c 



'We can cerdially neomtaemd the book to all «Hbo are able mmi vilfijBg is n»i 
>o y»rge and ao thofougfa a treatise on thnnrffirnl ebeaustry, for it as Call mmi ektir 
and well adapted to the da« of readers to wluek it is addreasedy a*d ""f ^ be 
atndied wztfa jgreat Adraota^ hj aU wiio wis^ to "^i^rfftitmi tibs nrntukuMio 
development of rhpmvrai ideas with baa taken plaee vitJun the laat tern yrtrw*' 



«c 



It 



i«try, and, in tbe beat 



fif indxvidsal cboMhi. 
Smt,immeti^Vm. 



of tbe leaidfinir ^g^dtnmmU 
of tbe word, an orifinai wotk 




12 Books piMished by Henry Benshaw^ 

DB. Wnj&OS TEnJP^ WOKKSb 

An Inqniry into the Laws of the Vital Function, with 

» Tiew to esUUiflh more correct Prindples of Treatment of Diaeaae. 8yo^ 
boarda,12i. 

An Inqniry into the Nature of Sleep and Death ; with 

a Tiew to aacertain the Immediate CanaoB of Deaidi. 8to, boards, price 8a. 

A Treatise on Indigestion, and its Consequences, called 

Nenrona and Bilious Complaints. 8yo^ boards, price 68. 6d. 

On the Influence of Mercury in restoring the Function 

of Health. 12mo, boards, price 3s. 6d. 

A Treatise on the more Obscure Affections of the Brain, 

with snccessfol Treatment of many Chronic Diseases. 12nio^ boards, price 4s. 



Post Syo, cloth, price 78. 

A Handbook of Obstetric Operations. By W. S. Plat- 

VAIB, M.D., M.B.C.P., Assistant Physician-Acooiichear to King's College 
Hospital. 

"The essays are carefully written, and will be pemsed with interest.** — Medical 
Timet, 

''Avalaable addition to obstetric literature, that will be read, we have no 
doubt^ by all students." — Medico-Chirargieal Beview, 



In 8yo, cloth, price 22s. 

Eedwood's Supplement to the Pharmacopoeia (formerly 

Gray*s): being a concise but comprehensive Dispensatory and Manual of 
Facts and Formnlse for the use of Practitioners in Medicine and Pharmacy. 
Third Edition, corrected, enlarged, and much improved. 

'* It is a most comprehensive work, giving an accomnt of all known substances, 
animal, vegetable, and mineral, to which have been ascribed medical properties, 
and also containing numerous formulae for preparations — ^not only those which are 
employed in medicine, but others made use of in the arts and domestic economy." 
— Lancet, 



DR. EDWARD RIGBY'S WORKS. 

On the Constitutional Treatment of Female Diseases. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, price 8s. 6d. 

On Dysmenorrhoea and other Uterine Affections in con- 
nexion with Derangement of the Assimilating Functions. Crown 8vo^ cloth, 
price 6s. 

An Essay on Uterine Haemorrhage. Sixth Edition, 

8vo, boards, price 7s. 

Obstetric Memoranda. Fourth Edition, revised and 

enlarged. By Alfred Meadows, M.D. Lend. Price Is. 6d. 

Naegele on the Mechanism of Parturition. Translated 

from the German by Da. Biobt. Price 6b, 



856, Strand^ London. 13 

In fcap.y dotby prioe 7b, 6d. 

Outlines of Pathological Semeiology. Translated from 

the German of Sohill. With copiouai notes by D. Sfillan, M.D. 



In fcap., cloth, price 48. 

Mercury, Blue Pill, and Calomel : their Use and Abuse. 

By G. SiOMOMD, M.D., F.L.S. 



In royal d2mo« price 58. 6d. 

Outlines of Elementary Botany. For the Use of 

Students. Ulustrated by 200 wood engravings. By Albx. Silveb, M.D., 
M.K.C.P., Physician to Gharing-cross Hospital. 

"Dr. Silver has not only produced a small volume which contains all that can 
be desired as a botanical class-book, but has contrived to communicate bis lessons 
in a pleasing form.'* — Lcmcet, 



In 4to, cloth, price 2l8. 

A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Grland. Illus- 
trated by numerous wood engravings, being the first Astley Cooper Prize 
Essay. By John Simon, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. 



DR. ABBOTTS SMITH's WORKS. 

On Human Entozoa. 8vo, cloth, price 5s. 

On Diabetes and on Enuresis. 4th edition, 18mo, cloth, 

sewed, price 2s. 6d. 

On Hay Fever, Hay Asthma or Summer Catarrh. 6th 

edition, 18mo, cloth, sewed, price 2s. 

On Affections of the Throat and Lungs, and on Inhala- 
tion. 3rd edition, fcap., cloth, price Ss. 

On Glycerine and its Uses. 18mo, cloth, sewed, price 

Is. 6d. 

Notes on Glycerine, with Eeceipts. ISmo, sewed, 

price Is. 



In fcap., sewed, price 2s. 6d. 

The Seven Sources of Health: a Manual of all that 

Ck)ncerns the Preservation of Health and the Prevention of Disease both of 
Body and Mind. By William Stbanoe, M.D., M.R.O.P., Physician to the 
General Hospital, Worcester. 

" A popular medical book, marked by good sense and freedom from quackery.** — 
Medical Timei. 



1 4 Books published by Henry Benshaw, 

Price 2b. dd^f or mouotod and Tamklied, jml 6d. 

A Chart of the Urine in Health and Disease. By W. 

8TBAVGE, M.D., M.R.C.P., Phjn. to the General Hospital, Worcester. 

This Chart enables the Praetitkmer in a few minntes to determine the diame- 
ter of any specimen of orine, and the morbid condition indicated thereby. 

** We are able to tpcak of this chart in terms of high commcBdation." — Lancet, 



DE. TANKEB*S WORKS. 

The Practice of Medicine. Sixth Edition, 2 vols. 8vo, 

doth, price Sis. 6d. 

The Signs and Diseases of Pregnancy. Second Edition, 

with coloured plates and wood engravings, Syo, cloth, price 18s. 

An Index of Diseases, and their Treatment. Feap., 

doth, price 10s. 6d. 

Memoranda on Poisons. Third Edition, royal 32mo, 

cloth, sewed, price 3s. 6d. 

On Cancer of the Female Sexual Organs. 8vo, sewed, 

price 2s. 6d. 

Medical Formulae. Eeprinted from the Second Edition 

of the Practice of Medicine. 48mo, cloth, sewed, price Is. 

The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. By Dr. Tanner. 

Second Edition, revised by Db. Alfred Meadows. Svo, cloth, price Hs. 

A Manual of Clinical Medicine and Physical Diagnosis. 

By Db. Tahiter. Second Edition, revised by Del Tilbubt Fox. Fcap. 
8yo, cloth, price 7b. 6d. 



In 8yo, cloth, price 25b. 

A Text-hook of Physiology. By Dr. G. Valentin, 

ProfesBor of Physiology in the University of Bern. Translated and Edited 
from the Third German Edition. By William Bbd^ton, M.D., F.RS., and 
Illustrated by upwards of Five Hondred Illustrations on Wood, Copper, and 
Stone. 

'*We strongly recommend this tranRlation of Valentin's admirable text-book, 
the distinguishing feature of which may be said to consist in the clearness with 
which all the physico-chemical researches are compressed and laid down,"— 
Medical Timet, 

''The best text-book of physiology ever published." — DMm Medical QwvrUrly, 



8yo, cloth, price \A», 

Velpean on Cancer of the Breast and Mammary Begion. 

With four coloured engravings. Translated from the French by W. MaB8- 
SEN, M.D., Senior Surgeon to the Boyal Free and Cancer Hospitals. 



356, Strand^ London. 15 

In Svo, cloth, price 7b. 

Observations on Distortion of the Spine, Chest, and 

Limbs ; with Kemarks on Paralytic and other Diseases connected with Im- 
paired or Defective Motion. By W. T. Ward, M.R.C.S., F.L.S. 

'^This curious and interesting volume forms a striking contrast to a multitude 
of works on the subject of distortion, in the total absence of all quacking pretension, 
.and in the nice application of physiological considerations both in the discrimination 
of diseases apparently similar and to the proper application of remedies.*' — Athenaeum, 



In 8vo, doth, price 12s. 

A Treatise on Venereal Disease and its Varieties. By 

William Wallaob, M.K.I.A. New Edition, with plates. 

'^The practical surgeon may study this volume with much advantage.'* — 
J)r. Forbes* Beview, No. 20. 



Fcap. cloth, price 58. 6d. 

The Medical Officer's Vade Mecum, or Poor-Law Sur- 
geon's Guide : containing the Regulations at present in force relating to the 
Belief of the Poor in Sickness, and the Appointment, Qualifications, Duties, 
and Remuneration of Union Medical Officers in England and Wales ; with a 
Note on Vaccination and Public Vaccinators. By Nuobnt Chables Walsh, 
Esq., of the Poor-law Board, Barrister-at-Law. 

" This book, which is a very compact one, must be of great value to every Poor- 
Law Medical Officer who desires to know his own duties and responsibilities. . . . 
We can cordially recommend this conscientious work to medical officers, and indeed 
to all interested in the sick poor." — Mediml Tiniea and Gazette. 



In royal 32mo, cloth, price 5s. 

Ward's Outlines of Human Osteology : a Compendious 

Treatise on the Anatomy and Mechanism of the Skeleton, designed by a new 
method of arrangement to facilitate the progress of the Student. By F. O. Ward. 

'* The best work on the subject. For accuracy of description Air. Ward is un- 
rivalled." — Lancet, 



In fcap. sewed, price 2s. 6d. 

The Oculist's Vade Mecum: a Complete Practical 

System of Ophthalmic Surgery. Second Edition, enlai^ed by John Walksb, 
late Surgeon to the Manchester Eye Hospital 



In demy 8vo, cloth, price 158. 

The Medical Practitioner's Legal Guide; or, the Laws 

relating to the Medical Profession. By Hugh Wbiohtman, Esq., M.A« 
Cantab., Barrister-at-Law, of the Inner Temple and the Oxford Circuit. 

This treatise is intended to furnish to the Medical Practitioner, as well as to the 
lawyer, that legal information which the continual changes effected by i«oent legis- 
lation have rendered necessary. 



16 Boohs published by Henry Renshaw, 

8to^ doth, price ^t. 

An Inquiry into the Origin and Intimate Nature of 



By Thomas WnjBois, Esq. 

"This work h tnily remaikable as oomiimf from a laynuui, aii4 would not 
diagrace a well-informed medical writer. The book will weU reward a perusal.*' — 
LameU, 



WORKS OK SANITARY AND SOCIAL SCIEKOE, 
In crown Svo, doth, price 2s. 6d, 

Public Health : a Popular Introduction to Sanitary 

Science ; being a History of the PreFaleoi and Fatal Diseases of the English 
Population, from the earliest times to the end of the eighteenth oentuiy. By 
W. A. Gut, M.B. Cantab., F.R.S. 

''Full of interesting and instractive matter, selected and combined with 
admirable skill."— Ttmea, July 29, 1870. 

« A most interesting and instructive introduction to sanitary science.*' — Med. 
Times and Gaaette, 

** We welcome very heartily tIu^ small treatise from the hand of one who is a 
veteran in sanitary science. His narrative is at once interesting and oonvindng." — 
The PrcieUUaner. 

** We heartily commend to our readers Dr. Guy*s volume.*' — The Spectator, 

The Evils of England. By a London Physician. 

Price Is. 

The Case of the Journeymen Bakers. A Lecture on the 

Evils of i^ightwork and Long Hours of Labour. By Dr. Guy. Price Is. 

The Sanitary Condition of the British Army, especially 

on the Want of Space in Barracks. By Dr. Gut. Price Is. 

The Plague of Beggars. A Dissuasive from Indiscrimi- 
nate Almsgiving. By a London Physician. Third Edition. Price Id. 

Defoe's Giving Alms no Charity, and Employing the 

Poor a Grievance to the Nation. By a London Physician. Price Id. 

The Nuisance of Street Music ; or, a Plea for the Sick, 

the Sensitive, and the Studious. By a London Physician. Price Id. 

Who are the Poor ? A cheap Tract for circulation. By 

a London Physician. Price 2s. per hundred. 

The Original. By Thomas Walker. Containing, in 

addition to many Essays on subjects of the highest interest, several papers on 
Beggars, Paupers, and Poor- Laws, &c. Price 5s. 

''Who has forgotten those clear, sensible papers in Walker's 'Original,* regarding 
dining and giving dinoers, which have been, as it were, a staff and finger*po8t to 
many a young housekeeper.*' — Athenceum, Feb. 9, 1867. 



HENRY RENSHAW, 
856, STBAND, LONDON. 



