Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



COFFEE: 



ITS HISTORY. OULTIVATION, 



AND USES. 



By ROBERT HEWITT. Jk. 



taxsmATSD wriR obibtku dssio-hb by budibnt ausrioak artists. 

iSJ> A MAP OF THE WOULD BHOWmfi THS SETEBAI. I1.A0EB WHERE 
OOFFia la, OB KAT BE PRODUOBD, AMD WHERE IT 18 AlfiO 



NEW YORK: 

D. APPLETOTf AND OOMPANT, 

649 & S51 BBOADWAT. 

1872. 



>y Go Ogle 



Entered ttcooriing to Act ol Ooogrss". In t 
By ROBERT HEWITT, Ja. 
In the Office of the Llbmiui of Coi^irse, 
Right of trmisliitlDn tesoi 



ijGooglc 



jnenjaniii |). IrioM, l^^smttr^, 



'imtU AJMTY AM mMmiE DEALW 



The First Rank and Position 

COFFEE TRADE, 

This Work is (Respectfully Inscribed 

BT TMM Author. 



ijGooglc 



ijGooglc 



OONTENTS. 



PRBFACB 7 

Bjtboddctokt g 

The Hibtoby of the Ooffee-plant 14 

Its CxiLTivATioN IN Various Coumtkikb 38 

Arabia ^ 

East Indxes 4Q 

South Amebica 59 

Methods of Making Coffee 66 

Ahaltsib add Adpltbkation of Coffee 80 

Tariffs of Vakious CorsTBiBB 94 

Statistical Tables of Coffee 99 




>y Go Ogle 



ijGooglc 



PBEFAOE. 



The reader may possibly remember among the cbarmijig " Eagays 
of Elia " one entitled " A Dissertation on roast Pig," in, which the 
■writer, with true epicurean zest, insists upon its preferred claims. 
Whether the reader's tast« be in exact accord with that of the 
essayist, it may not be easy to determine; but who can fail of 
being delighted with his treatment of the subject? It is with 
some such feeling of enthusiastic interest that the piesent volume 
Las been prepared, and in a similar spirit it is now submitted to 
the candor of the reader. If occasion for enthusiasm is found in 
discussing the merits of roasted pig, surely very much stronger is 
the argument in behalf of roasted Coffee. 

Having from his earliest business associations been personally 
connected with the Coffee-trade, the writer has always been greatly 
interested in collecting anything relating to the history, cultiva- 
tion, or uses of this great staple. Long impressed with the idea 
that the mass of slatistical figures that accumulate from day to 
day, in the many circulars and market reports received by those 
engaged in the importation and sale of coffee, tend rather to con- 
fuse and detract from the importance of this constantly iocreasing 
branch of commerce, the following pages are intended to give 
such general information as may perhaps interest not only those 
who are familiar with the business, but also that multitudinous 
class to whom coffee now has become an indispensable beverage ; 



>y Go Ogle 



but ■who for the most part may not be familiar with its history 
and" production. In a word, the work seeks to present, in a 
concise yet comprehensive form, all that relates to the history 
and cultivation of cotFee in various countries, and the pernicious 
effects of its adulteration. The best authorities have been con- 
sulted in its preparation ; and it is to be hoped — since it has 
been compiled in response to repeated inquiries for some such a 
manual, by persons engaged in the coffee-trade — that it may be 
found acceptable. 

Aa it would be great temerity on his part, after what has been 
already stated, to bespeak for the volume any special literary merit, 
its claims upon the favor of the reader must depend mainly upon 
the intrinsic vfj.iie of its statements and iacta ; its typographic 
and pictorial chaxacter will bear its own comment. " After many 
, interlinings, enlargings, and diminishings," it is at last 
id, and, as it is the first attempt of a novice, it is deemed 
right and proper to say (iu strictest confidence) that his vocation 
is simply that of a coffee-broker, one of that numerous fraternity 
whose business it is to please both buyer and seller, and who 
should be informed not only as to the present crop, but, to satisfy 
some, should have an opinion, when it is called for, as to all 
coming crops, etc., when chatting in the odd moments pending so 
momentous a transaction as a purchase or a sale (quantity not 
defined) of coffee. In fine, worthy reader, having thus far de- 
tained thee -with a relation of the intent and purpose of the fol- 
lowing pages, it only remains, by thy courtesy, to venture the 
hope that what is now presented concerning the little aromatic 
berry may linger as pleasantly on thy mind and memory as a 
fragrant draught of its infusion does upon thy palate. 

EOBEET HEWITT, JR. 



>y Go Ogle 




Is not the very name, Coffee, suggestive 
of aromatic odore? la it not, indeed, the 
fragrant incense we profEer at the shrine 
of the social hearth, — ^the delicious libation 
■which we pour on the altar of fiiendship ? Tail; 
of the famed Falemian wine of tlie ancients, or the nectar 
and ambrosia of the gods ; what were they to a delectable 



>y Go Ogle 



10 INTEODFCTORY. 

draught of this worM-renowned decoction ? Is it not the luxu- 
rious accompaniment of the chibouk and the cigar, and one of 
the indispensable symbols of the hospitahties and amenities of 
life? Yes, better far than the Bacchanahan cup of old is 
this non-inebriating draught, since it may be indulged .with 
impunity ;— for while it refreshes and stimulates, it does not 
stultify the mind. Wine, doubtless, inspired the ancient muse, 
and not, indeed, the ancient poets only; and poetry, which 
has been styled " the wine of the mind," was put into compe- 
tition, in olden time, for the prize of a cask of wine ; while 
the Bacchic hymn was styled the " hymn of the cask." The 
poets-laureate have also, from the minstrel-monk, Chancer, 
down to their hving representative in England, continued to 
receive their " pipe of wine ; " from all which it seems that the 
bards do not solely seek inspiration from the Heliconian fount ! 
As a salutary beverage coffee has never, perhaps, been duly 
estimated, since it is not only a digestive drink, but it has 
suppressed to a great extent that excessive indulgence in 
inebriating dmughts, that so frequently dishonored the ban- 
quets and prodigal hospitalities of former times. 
" Tes, the wine's a. wayward child, — 

Tl^ the cup that ' draws it mild ! ' 

Deeply drink its Hti'eam divine, 

Fill the cup — but cot with wine, — 

Potent port, 01 fiery sherry; — 

For tliia milder cup of mine, 

Crush me Yemen's fragrant berry ! ' ' 

Not alone in the East is the amber beverage indispensable ; 
it has also become a positive necessity in all the great capitals 
of Europe, as well as with all classes throughout the length and 
breadth of our own land. It has been well said by a recent 
writer, in one of our leading periodicals, — " that the proud eon 
of the highest civilization can no longer live happily without 
the coffee of African robbers, the tobacco of the red barbarians, 



>y Go Ogle 



INTRODUCTORT. 11 

the tea of the despised Chinese, and the sugar of the wretched 
Hindoo or enslaved negro. He cannot break his fast without 
coffee, nor finish his dinner ; and the whole social life of many 
nations is based upon the insigniiieant bean." The magic 
drink, which has held such unlimited sway over the social 
hospitalities of mankind for centuries, has also ministered to 
the relief of innumerable despairing dyspeptics, and achieved 
an incalculable amount of good, in rendering people more 
happy, and on better terms with themselves and everybody 
else, as well as more thoroughly equipped for encountering 
the battle of life. It is also suggestive of pleasant memories 
and visions of joyous, smiling groups that have graced the 
festive board, and shared with ourselves tliose genial " moods 
and tenses " that constitute much of the poetry of life. If the 
dreamy Mohammedan delights to divide his hours between the 
rival fascinations of his fragrant cup and the aroma of his 
"witching weed " in solemn silence, we of tlie "Western World 
find in this favorite beverage a delightful auxiliary to some oi 
our purest so<}ial pleasures. Its infiuence upon the social 
habits and intellectual culture of the age is a beneficent one, 
for it not only exhilarates the mind, but it also acts as a gentle 
stimulant, recuperative and sustaining to the physical frame. 
Since cotton has been proclaimed " king " in the realm of com- 
merce, coffee should be styled " queen " among the beverages 
of domestic life. True, tea takes prominent rank with many 
of the gentler sex, yet its fair fame has been traditionally 
suggestive of a love of scandal ; while the aromatic berry is 
wholly free from such a stigma. Had the learned lexicogra 
pher been less prodigal in his use of tea, and indulged himself 
with a frequent cup of fragrant coffee, he doubtless would 
have exhibited less asperity and angularity of character, and 
might have become as genial as he was wise. Like coffee, 
tobacco is also a potent pkint ; — both alike hold absolute sway 



>y Go Ogle 



12 INTRODUCTOEY. 

over milliona of mankind; yet, yielding too freely to the 
seductive influence of the narcotic weed, we may have to suffer 
the penalty, while with the aromatic berry nature is rai'ely in 
revolt. The one stimulates but to enervate ; the other refreshes 
and sustains. Coffee also is a better disinfectant than tobacco. 

In the olden time, when the " occult sciences," so called, were 
in vogue with the learned as TveU as the supei-stitioua, v 
indulged implicit faith in omens, premonitions, and ' 
In Brande's " Antiquities," allusion is made to a curious s 
of divination by, or tossing of, coffee-grounds. The narrator 
relates a visit he paid to a lady; — "whom he surprised with 
her company in close cabal over their coffee, the rest very in- 
tent upon one whom by her address and intelligence he guessed 
was a tire-woman, to which she added the secret of divining by 
coffee-grounds. She was then in full inspiration, and with 
much solemnity observing the atoms around the cup ; on the 
one hand eat a widow, on the other a maiden lady. . . . They 
assured him that every cast of the cup is a picture of all one's 
life to come, and every transaction and circumstance is delinea^ 
ted with the exactest certainty," etc. The same practice is also 
noticed in the Connoisseur, where a girl is represented divining 
to find out of what rank her husband should be : — " I have seen 
him several times in coffee-groimds, with a sword by his side ; 
and he was once at the bottom of a tea-cup, in a coach-aud-six, 
with two footmen behind it ! " 

Leigh Hunt thus pleasantly discourses upon our subject: 
'■ Coffee, like tea, used to form a refreshment by itself, some 
hours after dinner ; it is now taken as a digester, right upon 
that meal or the wine, and sometimes does not even close it ; 
or the digester itself is digested by a liqueur of some^ sort 
called a chasse-aafi (coffee-chaser). We Hke coffee better than 
tea for the taste, but tea ' for a constancy.' To be perfect in 
point of reHsh (we do not say of wholesomeness), coffee should 



>y Go Ogle 



INTRODUCTORY. 13 

be strong and hot, witli Kttle milk and sugar. It has been drunk 
after this mode in some parts of Europe, but the pubHc have 
nowhere, we believe, adopted it. The favorite way of taking 
it as a meal, abroad, is with a great superfluity of milk — very 
properly called, in France, cafe-au-lait (coffee to the milk). 
One of the pleasures we receive in drinMng coffee is that, 
being the universal drink in the East, it reminds of that region 
of the ' Arabian Nights,' as smoking does for the same reason ; 
though neither of these refreshments, which are identified with 
Oriental manners, is to be found in that enchanting work. 
They had not been discovered when it was written ; the drink 
then was sherbet. One can hardly fancy what a Turk or a 
Persian could have done without coffee and a pipe, any more 
than the English ladies and gentlemen, before the civil wars, 
without tea for breakfast." 

Thus much, then, may suiiice as our " apology " for propos- ' 
ing to the reader to accompany us in our rapid survey of the 
career of coffee over the globe, since its first discovery. What 
we have here gleaned from a great variety of sources concern- 
ing the fragrant beny, has been to the compiler by no means a 
theme devoid of interest ; but should the reader not be of the 
same opinion, it may not be inappropriate to suggest tliat, 
before committing to him the results of our i 
should fortify liimflelf with a cup of the inspiring 1; 
and thus be put into true sympathy with the subject. 



>y Go Ogle 



Familiar as we all are with 
Coffee as a beverage, yet com- 
' paratively how few of us ever 
imagine that its history can be 
found to possess any particular 
interest, or deserve any special 
notice "We sip the aromatic draught 
when athirst, and derive from it a sense 
of renewed vigor when aweary ; but when 
is our curiosity provoked, or prompted 
"^*"'-^'" to inquire, as to who was the benefactor 

that first discovered its virtues, where it first grew, and by 
■wliat curious process or manipulation we derive the deli- 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 15 

eioua driiik? Everything has, indeed, ite history or tradition, 
and so has the fragrant little berrj', the aromatic incense of 
which BO gratefully greets our olfactory ner\'e, at the repast 
which ushei-s in the da\vn and close of day. 

Coffee, it appears, became known to civilization at an epochj 
memorable for many marvellous events. It was about the time 
of the great awakening of mankind from the long slumbers of 
the lliddle Ages, when those great luminaries, Columbus and 
Paust, blazed upon the world. One brought to light a new 
hemisphere, and the other gave to mankind the " art preserva- 
tive of arts," and the light of intelligence to. the whole cifilized 
globe. Coffee was originally known by the name of JCauht, 
an orthography somewhat su^estive of a certain Town Council- 
lor of Leeds, who, writing out a " bill of fare " for a public 
breakfast, contrived to spell coffee without employing a single 
letter that occurs in that word, thus — Kawphy ! Although the 
plant or tree is indigenous to Southern Abyssinia, where it is 
even to the present day cultivated, yet it derived its name from 
Kaffa, in Eastern Afi-ica, where the plant also grows wild, and 
very abundantly. The Malays, who from their intercourse with 
the Arabs have long known the berry, call it by the Arabian 
name, Ka/wah; the Javanese, however, in common with our-, 
selves, designate it Coffee. There is an Eastern legend which 
ascribes the discovery of the berry to a Dervish named Hadji 
Omer, who, in the year 1285, being driven out of Mocha, 
was induced, in the extremity of hunger, to roast the berries 
which grew near his hiding-place. He ate them, as the oniv 
means of sustaining life ; and steeping the roasted berries in 
water, to quench Ms thirst, he thus discovered their agreeable 
qualities, and also that the infusion was nearly equal to solid 
food. His persecutors, who had intended that he should die of 
starvation, regarded his preservation as a miracle. He was ac- 
cordingly transmuted into a saint forthwith ! 



>y Go Ogle 



16- THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

According to the manuBcript of Scheliabeddin Ben, an 
Arabian Scribe of the ninth centurj of the Hegira, or the 
fifteenth of the Christian era, ■which manuBcript is, or was, in 
tlie great Library of the city of Paris, we learn that a certain 
Mufti, or Mohammedan high-priest, named Gemal Eddin, of 
Aden, a town of Arabia Felix, was the first who introduced to 
hia countrymen the custom of coffee-drinking. Having returned 
from visiting Persia, where he had observed the beverage used 
as a medicine, and being at the time himself sick, he tried as an 
experiment a dose of the " black draught." Finding it both 
curative and exhilarating, he forthwith turned his discovery 
to good account, by applying its virtues as an antidote to the 
torpor and drowsiness of his monks, whom he had often found 
dormant at their devotions. 

The example and authority of the Mufti at once conferred on 
coffee a reputation, and it speedily came into general use, not 
only on account of its sleep-dispelling power, but also for its 
other good qualities. Coffee, which had been in use in Ethiopia, 
it is believed, from time immemorial, was carried by the Der- 
vishes to Mecca, where the beverage became so popular with the 
sons of the prophet that its fame soon extended to other towns 
adjacent. It continued its career through Syria, and was re- 
ceived without opposition at Damascus and Aleppo, and in 
the year 1554 became the favorite drink at Constantinople, 
where, soon after, coffee-houses were opened. 

In the same proportion that the coffee-houses were thronged, 
the mosques became deserted ; and the priests represented that 
no doubt the new drink was forbidden by the Koran, for that 
the roasted berry was certainly a kind of coal, and that as such 
it was prohibited by the Prophet's law. The Mufti, on a peti- 
tion to this effect, without hesitation decided that coffee was 
coal ; nevertheless, in spite of frequent enactments against it, the 
people continued to drink it. The exertions of the police were 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 17 

ineffectual, and the gOTemment was at length contented to re- 
strain ite use merely bj; rigid sumptuary laws. Coffee waa 
taxed, and the black drau^t was allowed to be drunk in secret. 
But ere long another Mufti arose, of a less antiphlogistic turn, 
and he pronounced coffee not coal, but a right remunerative 
item of goYemment tax. At a later day, when too much free- 
dom of political discussion took place in the Oriental coffee- 
houses, they were suppressed hy the Grand Yizier; yet the 
beverage continued to be almost universally used, some persons 
taking even twenty dishes of it in a day — the dishes, however, 
were small. The lower elates also actually begged money for 
coffee ; and it is added hy the chronicler of the time, that " the 
refusing to supply a wife with coffee was admitted in law as a 
valid causeof divorce." Trom the "city of the Sultan" it passed 
to Western Europe, but at what precise time, historians have 
not positively determined. It is believed to have been intro- 
duced into Venice about the year 1615. In 1644 it was known 
at Marseilles, M. de la Ilaye having taken with him some of the 
coffee-beans from Constantinople, with vessels and an apparatus 
for making the beverage. 

The traveller Thevenot was among the first to introduce into 
Paris the custom of taking coffee after dinner ; but he had few 
imitators until ten years after, — about 1668, when the coffee 
parties of the Turkish ambassador at Paris brought the bever- 
age into fashion. " The brilhaut porcelain cups," says Disraeli, 
" iiHt-hicli it is poiired, — the napkins fringed with gold, and the 
Tiu-kisli slaves, on tlieir knees, presenting it to the ladies, seat- 
ed on the ground on cushions, — turned the heads of the Parisian 
dames," tlie exotic soon became a subject of general conver- 
sation, and a cafe was opened for the sale of the beverage, in 
1671, by an Armenian of the name of Pascal. The enterprise 
did not succeed, however, on account of the heterogeneous com- 
pany tliat met there. A few years later, Procope, a Florentine, 



>y Go Ogle 



18 THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

who became noted as an arbiter of taste in sucb matters, opened 
a splendid saloon, at which the rank and fashion of the French 
capital used to assemble. 

Soon the eafd became the resort of the most renowned wits, 
artists, and philosophers of the Trench metropolis — Kousseau, 
Voltaire, Piron, with Marmontel and many others. The univer- 
Bal favor in which coffee is still held in Paris, sufficiently dis- 
proves the accuracy of the famous prophecy of Madame de 
Sevigne, — that " coffee and Kaciue would have their day." 
Among the most noted of the Parisian cafes were those known 
as the Oafe des Mille Colownea, and the Caf4 Ture, on the 
Boulevard, which were fitted up with oriental splendor, as glit- 
tering with ornament as an opium-eater's dreams, or the glow- 
ing tints of a page of Yathek. 

The high favor with which coffee came at length to be re- 
garded in the houses of the great, may be inferred from the 
fact that a sum equivalent to $15,000 a year was expended for 
supplying the daughters of Louis XV. of France with the bev- 
erage. In 1714 the magistrates of Amsterdam presented Louis 
XIV. with a coffee-tree, which was sent to the Eoyal Gardens. 
It was Louis XIV. who directed M. Des Clieux to take one of the 
plants to Martinique, one of the French "West India possessions. 
The voyage proved so tempestuous and prolonged that he was 
compelled to divide his water-rations with it, in order to keep it 
alive. From that parent plant an immense progeny has sprung. 

The consumption of coffee in the French capital at the 
breiaking out of the Revolution was something enormous. We 
find it estimated that the French "West India Islands furnished 
no less than eighty millions of pounds of it yearly, and this was 
irrespective of a liberal supply from the East. The two 
sources combined were not even adequate to the supply of the 
demand. "We are not surely to infer from this circumstance 
that coffee itself possesses any Eevolutionary element. 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTOBT OP COFt'EE. 19 

It was to this extraordinary demand for coffee that the adul- 
teratioiiB of tlie berry may be traced ; — the adulterere made for- 
tunes by their combination of ebiccory with it, but the well- 
earned reputation of the French suffered by the admixture. 

At the " Cafe Procope," the earliest of these establishments 
in Paris, a curious incident, worth mentioning, occurred con- 
cerning a cup of coffee. As M. Saint Foix was one day seated 
at his usual table in this cafe, an officer of the king's body-guard 
entered, eat down, and ordered a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, adding, " It will serve me for a dinner I " At this Saint 
Foix remarked aloud, " that a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, was a confoundedly poor dinner." The officer remonstrated. 
Saint Foix reiterated his remark, adding, that nothing he could 
say to the contrary would eon\'ince him that it was not a con- 
foundedly poor dinner. Thereupon a challenge was given 
and accepted, and the whole company present adjourned as 
spectators of a fight, which ended by Saint Foix receiving a 
wound in the arm. " That is all very well," said the wounded 
combatant, " but I call you to witness, gentlemen, thati am still, 
profoundly convinced that a cup of coffee, with milk and a roll, 
is a confoundedly poor dirmer I " At this moment the principals 
were arrested and carried before the Duke de Noailles, in whose 
presence St. Foix, without waiting to be questioned, said, " Mon- 
seigneur, I had not the slightest intention of offending the gal- 
lant officer, who, I doubt not, is an honorable man, but your 
Excellency can never prevent my asserting that a cup of coffee, 
with milk and a roll, is a confoundedly poor dinner." — " Why, 
60 it is," said the Duke, " Then I am not in the wrong," per- 
sisted St. Foix, " and a cup of coffee," — at these words magis- 
trates, delinquents, and auditory burst into a roar of laughter, 
and the antagonists became forthwith warm friends. The oldest 
cafe in the Palais Koyal is the celebrated " Gafe de Foy," so 
called from the name of its founder. Carl Vernet was one of 



>y Go Ogle 



20 THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

its most constant patrons. He was there on one occasion when 
some repairs were going on, and in his impatience he flung a 
wet coloring-brush from him which stnick the ceiling and left a 
spot. He immediately ascended the ladder, and with a touch 
of Ins finger converted the stain into a swallow ; and his handi- 
work was to be seen until the recent siege of Paris, It was 
before this cafii that Desraonlins hai'angued the mob, in Jidy, 
1789, with such effect that they took up arms, destroyed the 
Bastille, and inaugurated the fearful scenes of the Revolution. 
The Germans were initiated into the practice of coffee-drinking 
by their neighbors the French, and also by the Dutch. The 
beverage did not, however, become popular with them until the 
Elector of Brandenburg caused its virtues and praises to be 
celebrated in a book, which he disseminated among the people. 
"We have already spoken of the devotion of the Turk to this 
drink, now almost the imiversal beverage of the East. It is 
diftieult to transfer ourselves in thought and feeling to the 
glowing scenes of the Orient. Imagine yourself peering into 
one of the brilliant divans of the " City of the Sultan," with its 
tessellated court-yard, and its towering pinnacle or minaret, 
nestled among mulberry trees and pomegranates. In the cen- 
tre of the richly decorated saloon is the cooling fountain, which 
scatters its silvery spray and fantastic foam over groups of bril- 
liant flowers, wiiile on every side the eye is regaled with varie- 
gated marbles, magnificent arabesques, and gaudy hangings, 
relieved with gilded devices of matchless beauty. In some such 
circumstances of luxurious splendor may be seen the indolent 
Osmanli regaling himself with his favorite weed, and a cup of 
his unmixed Mocha silently brought to him by his Nubian slave, 
in brilliant costume. Among the surrounding groups are some 
Arabs at chess, while otliers may be listening to one of the 
famous Oriental story-tellers, or gating at the tricks of some 
juggler, or witnessing the exploits of a dancing dervisK But 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTORT OP COFFEE. 21 

Bilenee, indolence, and stolidity are the prevailing characteris- 
tics of the Turkish divan. In Persia, however, the scene is 
changed ; there the coffee-houses are full of stir and activity. 
Soon after morning prayers are announced from the minaret, the 
people flock to their coffee-houses, which are often beautifully 
decorated, and there they sip tlieir coffee, smoke, and listen to 
the wise sayings of Sadi, or the songs of Hafiz, or talk over the 
news of the hour. 

Those who have visited the Havana and roamed through 
that delightful city will remember with pleasurable sensations 
the magnificent cafes, and especially the " Louvre." Sauntering 
from the city gates, where the white-clad ofiicials, with Panama 
hat», demand from all travellers landing from the steamers a 
silver fee for permission to remain a certain number of days 
upon the island, the "looker-on at Vienna" strolls through the 
lovely " Pla^a de Armas " with its fountains and its flowers ; 
halts for a few moments on the paved walks, and while lis- 
tening to the music of the military band, admires the beautiful 
faces and graceful toilets of the fair promenaders, who pass 
and repass under the lamps, enjoying the tropical twilight. 
Taking a victoria, which is the popular vehicle alwaj-s to be 
found ready to convey passengers to any part of the city, he is 
whirled past the palace of the Governor-General, and through 
narrow streets, between the massive walls of houses on either 
side, until he alights at the "Louvre." This cafe is situated 
opposite the Tacon theatre, which is known for its elegance 
of construction and rich appointments. Facing it is a 
splendid park, used as a promenade during the evening, 
when it is brilliantly illuminated. It is the fashionable resort 
for promenaders. The scene is worth witnessing, presenting 
a changing panorama of brilliant variety, while richly ap- 
pointed equipages, volantes and other vehicles, all gayly 
equipped, are constantly passing. 



>y Go Ogle 



22 THE HISTOBT OF COFFEE. 

Leaving the victoria, which has by this time obtained 
another fare, the caf(5 with its open doors attracts attention. 
Entering the grand saloon on the first floor, level with the 
narrow sidewalks, which permit only one pedestrian to pass 
comfortably at a time, the risitor seats himself at one of the 
smalt marble-covered tables that are plentifully distributed 
over the tiled floor ; and whatever the temperature of the 
streets may be, the cafes are always cool, and at them may be 
met, at certain hours of the day, many English and American 
visitors and residents. Immediately when seated, one of the 
attendants approaches and politely asks, in Spanish, for orders ; 
an attempt to make the waiter comprehend English will 
generally meet with signal failure. "While enjoying the 
delicious coffee and a choice cigar, the visitor looks about 
the saloon, which is fltted up in a style of magnificence out> 
rivalling all other caf^s in the city. At each of the small 
tables are groups of Spaniards, Cubans, Giermans, Englishmen, 
and Americans, witli here and there an ofiicer in brilliant 
uniform, all chatting, drinking coffee, or sipping light wines, 
and each, with rare exceptions, fondling a cigar. All over 
this interesting city, more especially in the older portion of it, 
inside the now nearly obliterated lines of ancient walls, the 
cafes confront the passer-by at nearly every square. Watching 
an old coffee-drinker in the " Louvre" one day, he was seen to 
carefully drop the white lumps of sugar into his cup until the 
top of the sweet pile rose just above the rich yellow fluid, and 
then gently rubbing his palms together, he prepared himself to 
enjoy the nectar. " La Dominica " was formerly the favorite 
cafe, but it has of late years been superseded by more modern 
establishments ; it is still however well patronized, but makes 
more of a specialty in manufacturing " dulces " or sweetmeats, 
which have a world-wide reputation, especially the guava 
jelly, most of which comes from this entrepot. The Havanese 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTOBT OF COFFEE. 23 

uiideretand pretty well liow to make and drink coffee, and 
never hesitate to avail themselves of its invigorating influence. 
"When dwellers in the tropics — not only in this delightful island 
bnt wherever coffee is grown — once learn how to make coffee 
in perfection, which can only be done by steam-heat, a new 
impetus will be given to the growth of the bean, for, like all 
discoveries of value, the better an article is produced, the more 
universally is it used. 

Coffee was first regularly introduced into England about the 
middle of the seventeenth century, as we learn from the fol- 
lowing extract from Sir Henry Blount, who visited Turkey in 
1634 :— " Tiie Turks have a drink," he writes, " called Oa/uphe, 
made of a berry as big as a small bean, dried in a furnace, and 
beat to a powder of a sooty color, in taste a little bitterish, that 
they seethe and drink, hot as may be endured. It is good at all 
hours of the day, but especially at morning and evening, when 
to that purpose they entertain themselves two or three hours in 
cauphe-houses, which, in Turkey, abound more than Inns and 
ale-houses with us." Notwithstanding the opposition and pre- 
judice which prevailed against the beverage for nearly a score 
of years after its first introduction, the coffee-houses continued 
to increase in London and other large cities of England. All 
classes resorted to them ; literary men and artists, mercantile 
men and the votaries of fashion, all had their respective coffee- 
houses. Thus — 

" Mocha's berry, from Arabia pure, 
Iq Binall, fine, china cups came in at iaat." 

The English and French disput* the hofior of being the first 
introducers of coffee into Western Europe. Coffee was not 
used at Kome until long after it had been known to, and 
tasted by, Italian ti-avellers at Constantinople; the Church, 
however, looked with favor upon a beverage, one effect of 



>y Go Ogle 



24 THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

which was to keep both priests and people awake. Although 
the coffee-houees of England take precedence of those of 
France, yet the latter have more enduringly flourished. 
On the anthority of Oldys, the antiquary, " the first use 
of coffee in England was known in 1657, when one Edwards, 
a Turkey merchant, brought from Smyrna to London one 
Pasqua Eosee, a Kagnsan youth, who prepared this drink 
for him every inoming. But the novelty thereof drawing too 
raucli company to him, he allowed his said servant, with 
another of his sons-in-law, to sell it publicly ; and they set up 
the first coffee-house in London, in St. Michael's Alley, 
CornhUl. But they separating, Pasqua kept in the house ; and 
he who had been his partner obtained leave to pitch a tent, 
and sell the liquor, in St. Michael's Churchyard," Aubrey, in 
his "Anecdotes," states that the first vender of coffee in 
London was one Bowman, coachman to a Turkey merchant 
named Hodg^, who was the father-in-law of Edwards, and the 
partner of Pasqua, who got into difficulties, partly by his not 
being a freeman, and who left the country. Bowman was not 
only patronized, but a magnificent contribution of one thoueand 
sixpences was presented to him, wherewith he made great 
improvements in his coffee-house. Bowman took an appren- 
tice (Paynter), who learned the mystery of coffee-making, and 
soon after set up for himself. The coffee-houses, after this, 
soon became numerous. 

The frequenters of coffee-houses, however, were not then 
regarded as belonging to the most reputable classes of society, 
and the proposed substitution of a cup of the Arabian infusion 
for Canary wine, provoked the opposition of the wits and 
satirists. The ladies, also, declai'ed against its being thus sold 
at coffee-houses, — from which they were excluded, — as being 
unsocial and uncivil. On tlie other hand, apologists and 
advocates were not wanting in their behalf : one of the most 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTOET OP COFFEE. ZO 

curious of -whicli waB that of Aubrey, — ^the Boswell of his 
day, — who declared that he should never have acquired so 
extensive an acquaintance but for the " modem advantages of 
coffee-houses in this great city; before which men knew not 
how to be acquainted but with their own relations and 
societies ! " 

An animated controversy was kept up about coffee during 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Among the equibs 
and lampoons of the time may be mentioned the following 
piquant titles :— " The Coffee-house Oranado^' " Tfie Women^s 
Petition agaiiist Coffee" and " The Men's Answer to the same." 
Another was entitled, "^1 cup of Coffee, or Coffee in its trite 
Colour : " and a grave writer in prose issued a grotesque 
hand-bill, headed with a rude cut of eoffee-bibbers, surrounded 
with the following eulogistic legend : " A brief description of 
the excellent vertues of that sober and wholesome drinke, 
called coffee, and its incomparable effects in preventing or 
curing most diseases incidental to human bodies ! " Wlien first 
introduced into London, coffee sold at from four to Ave guineas 
a pound. In spite of opposition, coffee soon became a favorite 
drink, and the shops where it was sold, places of general 
resort \ Another of the earliest coffee-houses of London was 
the well-known "Eainbow," near Temple Bar, which still 
Nourishes, but altogether in a new style. In 1675 a proclama- 
tion was issued for closing all coffee-houses. The government 
soon found, however, that in making such a proclamation they 
had gone a step too far ; for the coffee-houses of even that 
day had become a " power in the land." They were indeed 
the chief organs through which the pubKc opinion of the 
metropolis was expressed. That coffee-houses in Charles the 
Second's time were regarded as headquarters for the news of 
the day, we gather from a "broadside" song, which com- 
8 thus : — 



>y Go Ogle 



26 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

" You that delight in wit and mirth, and long to hear Buch news 

Am come from all parts of the eartli, — Dutch, Danes, and Turks, and JewB ;— 

I'll send ;oa to a, rendezvous, where it is smoking new ; 

And coming from the coffee-house, it cannot but be true ! " 

Derail, in hie amufiing volume, " Table Traits," has gathered 
Bome curious items and incidents connected with the old London 
coffee-houses which are replete with interest, and which we 
ehall condense for the reader. The " Grecian" was one of the 
most noted of the old establishments of this kind in London ; 
it appears to have been the oldest of the better-known of the 
coffee-houses, and to have lasted the longest. It was opened by 
one Constantine, a Greek, li\'ing in the latter part of the seven- 
teenth century, and its location was in the vicinity of St. Christo- 
pher's Church. Its longevity is not a little remarkable, for its 
career came to a close only in the year 1843, when the " Grecian 
Coffee-house " became transformed into the " Grecian Chambers," 
or lodgings for bachelors. The establishment did not exist in the 
same locality, however, all the time; for at the time of its 
transformation the " Grecian " was situated in Devereux Street, 
Strand. In its palmy days it was the resort of the learned 
and aristocratic, and its classic name seems not to have been 
disbonored by its fame. Sparkling humor and genial repartee 
would often flash responsive to the inspiring but non-inebriating 
cup, and thus qualify the gravity of those learned pundits who 
would gather there, not to discuss the trivialities of the day, but 
those weightier matters that concern the rise and fall of dy- 
nasties, — such as the fate of Kome and the events which issued 
from the Trojan war. Yet then, as now, satirists would seize 
upon the points of humor ; and as there were pedants as well 
as philosophers who convened at the " Grecian," so lampoons 
and literary squibs were not wanting to enliven the scene. 

It was a time when both sages and sciolists wore swords; 
and it is on record that two friendly scholars,- sipping their 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTORY OP COFFEE. 27 

eoffeeat the " Greciap," became enemies in argument, the subject 
of which wae the accent of a Greek word. Whatever the accent 
ought to have been, the qiiaiT.el was acute, and its conclusion 
grave. The scholars rushed into Devereux Court, drew their 
swords, and as one was run through the body and killed on the 
spot, it is to be supposed that he was necessarily wrong. A 
duel, however, was certainly a strange way of settling a ques- 
tion in. grammar. The " coffee-houses " which were resorted to 
for mere conversation as well as coffee began on a first floor ; 
they were the eeed, as it were, whence has arisen the political 
and exclusive " club " of the present day. The advantages of 
association were first experienced in coffee-houses ; but at the 
same time it must be admitted that there also was felt the 
annoyance caused by intrusive and unwelcome strangers. 
'■ Wills's Coffee-house," also known as the "'WitB " from its com- 
pany, was situated at the west comer of Bow Street, Covent 
Garden. In the last half of the seventeenth century, its 
popularity was at its height. It was at WiUs's that Dryden 
" pedagogued " without restraint, and accepted without a blush 
any amount of flattery on hia literary productions. He was the 
great literary luminary around which lesser orbs and satellites 
revolved. He had the good sense, however, to retire early, 
when the tables were full, and he knew he had made a favora- 
ble impression ; but Addison, more given to jolly fellowship, 
sat late with those who stayed to indulge "libations deep." Of 
the disputes that there arose, " Glorious John" was arbiter : for 
his partieular use a chair was especially reserved ; therein 
enthroned he sat by the hearth or the balcony, according to the 
seaeon, and delivered his decisions. Another of the renowned 
London coffee-houses was " Button's," in Great Russell Street ; 
this was Addison's favorite rendezvous, although the fruit of the 
vine was, in his case, preferred to the infusion of the berry. 
There, after writing during the forenoon at his house in 



>y Go Ogle 



28 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

St, James's Place,— where his breakfast table was attended by 
such men as Steele, Davenant, Carey, Philips, Pope, and other 
bards and writers of note, — he was to be found of an evening until 
supper. Pope was of the company for about a year, but left it 
partly because late hours injiired his health, and partly also 
because his irritable temper had rendered him unpopular. He 
had so provoked Ambrose Philips, indeed, that the latter sus- 
pended a birchen-rod over Pope's usual seat, in intimation of 
wliat the ordinary occupant would get if he ventured into it. 
The Euttonians were famous for the fierceness of their criti- 
cism. Of coffee-houses that went by the name of " Tom's " 
there were three : at that in Birchen-lane Garrick frequently 
might have been seen ; and poor Chatterton, before fell despair 
slew him. At the other coffee-house known as " Tom's," in 
Devereux Court, Akenside, with many of the scholars, critics, 
and scientists of the day used to congregate ; but the " Tom's " 
was opposite Button's, in Great Eussell Street. It was a place 
generally crowded with incident, from the time of Qneen Anne 
to that of George III, Seven hundred of the nobihty, literary 
notabihties, and wits of celebrity were guinea subscribers to 
this establishment ; most of the company, however, consoled 
themselves with something more potent than coffee. The poli- 
ticians as well as the poets had their coffee-houses ; the " Cocoa- 
Ti'ee " in St. James's Street was the Tory house in the reign 
of Queen Anne ; the " St, James's " was the ^Vhig house. Here 
occasionally might have been seen members of Parharaent, also 
a galaxy of literary stars. This had a more solid reputation 
than any other of the coffee-houses except " 'White's." " Gar- 
raways," or Garway, as the original proprietor was called, was 
one of the eai'liest coffee-sellers in London, and his house was 
frequented by the nobility and gentry, as well as others who 
wished to sip the aromatic beverage. AH these places, and 
many others which might be referi'ed to, were in full activity of 



>y Go Ogle 



THE mSTOET OF COFFEE. 29 

business and coffee-drinking iu the reign of Queen Anne, 
Another notable coffee-house was known as " Squire's," at 
which the lawyers and politicians were accuetomed to meet 
in considerable numbers ; and there, it will be remembered, 
" Sir Koger de Coverley " smoked a pipe over a dish of coffee 
with the " Spectator." But we have been loitering, perhaps 
too long, about the old London coffee-houses, and in tracing the 
history of Vaf4s in Europe and the East ; still we cannot dismiss 
the subject withoiit referring to the history of coffee-houses in 
our own country. 

The consumption of the berry is constantly and rapidly 
increasing in the United States, the increased ratio being 
greater than the most sanguine advocate of the beverage could 
ever have predicted, and pure coffee must soon be so exten- 
sively and universally used that all pertaining to its history 
will be of interest to the world at large. 

In no place in the world, probably, are the influences and 
healthful effects of pure coffee more happily displayed than in 
what is known to every resident and visitor of the Crescent City 
as the old French market of New Orleans. Here, from the 
" earliest time," have been coffee-vendera conveniently distri- 
buted throughout the great maze of staUs and marts, and from 
the small hours in the morning until nearly noon the distribu- 
ters of this most invigorating of beverages are busy as bees. 

Aside fi"om their special occupation, these dealers in coffee 
are a peculiar people. It seems to be an appropriate vocation, 
in this genial climate, which at once strikes the observant tra- 
veller when he first sees a French or Spanish mulatto, with 
her head curiously covered by a gayly striped bandanna, 
serving hot coffee. Yet it is a fact that it is only people who 
answer to this description who are the most thorough experts in 
extracting the delicious taste from the berry, in keeping the 
delightful aroma from passing away in the rising steam, in pro- 



>y Go Ogle 



30 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

Tiding tlie best kinds of sugar and the most honest and well- 
cleaned cups and eaucers. At the shrine of one of these ven. 
ders in the early hours of the morning, when the fogs of the 
Mississippi are rolling over the Crescent City, breaking like 
clouds against the intervening houses, and filling the air with 
sickly miasma which nauseates the unfortunate whose business 
calls him out before the fogs are dissipated, then it is that coffee 
la most prized. Look at the recipient, who with blanched face, 
dull eyes, and depressed mien, reaches out his hand and seizes 
upon the nectar. The moment the fragi-auce reaches his nos- 
trils a transformation for the better commences, the eyes grow 
bright, a healthful color and natural fulness returns to the 
cheeks, smiles -wreath the mouth, the mind becomes active, the 
fogs, the dark air, effluvia of all sorts are exorcised like ghosts 
fleeing before the penetrating rays of the unobstructed sun. 

The European, the Creole, the New Englander, the men of 
the West and the far-off Orient, all \'isit the coffee-stands. 
"While partaking there is for the instant a touch of nature which 
makes mankind akin, for it is observable that the recipients of 
the morning cup of pure Java are sociable. Artificial distinc- 
tions are discarded in the very act of drinking in the crowded 
market, or even standing in the open street. But it is the very 
thing, this mixture of the rude and the refined, that adds zest to 
the " open-air cup of coffee." The merry twinkle of the eye of 
the attendant quadroon, her quiet manners, her attentive observ- 
ance of the wants and tastes of the various customers, the very 
polish of the tall copper kettle, the jet of steam, the whiteness 
of the crockery, constitute associations that, once realized, one 
never forgets, and justly places coffee among the most grateful, 
innocent, and healthful things that we Americans include among 
the necessaries of life. 

The coffee-houses of New York are intimately associated 
with the history of the city. Within their walls have been the 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 31 

scenes and players whose actions made the pulses of the nation 
throb ill high excitement, or calmed them to deep repose. The 
early records show that in 16i3 Martin Erigier became the 
owner of a plot of land on the west side of what is now called 
Broadway, nearly opposite the north end of the Bowling Green, 
and built on it Krigier's Tavern. It soon became a resort of the 
fashionable men of the day, and was at times the headquarters 
of the Dutch Goyemor, William Kieft. It was removed in 
after-years, and on its site was built the "King's Arms Tavern." 
During the excitement previous to the devolution, it was 
known as Bum's Coffee-IIonse, and was used for the meetings 
of merchants and the associations of "Liberty Boys." On tho 
31st of October, 1765, the merchants engaged in the imports^ 
tion of English goods met at Burn's Coffee-House, and adopted 
resolutions to import no more goods from England until the 
Stamp Act was repealed. Two hundred merchants signed the 
resolutions. During the same evening a non-importation soci- 
ety was foimed in the same place, and a committee on cor- 
respondence appointed, comprising many of the well-known 
merchants of New York, During the Revolution the house 
became the headquarters of General Gage, of the British army. 
Tears rolled on, and when Time touched the spot again it was 
changed into the Atlantic Gardens. In the summer of 1860 
the ground was purchased by the Hudson Eiver Eailroad Com- 
pany, and the old house was removed to make room for a 
freight depot. 

At the foot of Wall street, still known among the old mer- 
chants as CofEee-House Slip, was the Merchants' Coffee-Houso. 
It stood on the southeast corner of Wall and Water streets, and 
before the erection of the Tontine CofEee-House, in 1T92, was, 
in fact, the Merchants' Exchange, and political headquarters 
of colonial times. In 1762 a petition was presented to tho 
city authorities for the removal of the meal-market at the foot 



>y Go Ogle 



32 THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

of Wall street, because " it was disagreeable to those that pass 
to and from the Coffee-IIoiiee, a place of great resort." The 
meal-marbet was built in 1709, and occupied the site of the 
ancient half-moon foi-tificatlon and hloeb-honse of the Dutch 
era. The Merchants' CofFee-House was five stories high, the 
entrance being even with the sidewalk ; a light balcony crossed 
the front and side of the house at the second story. That it 
was a business centre in the early days of the city may be 
gathered from the following copy of an advertisement in the 
newspapers of April 9, ITSO : — " For London, The Ship Brave 
Hawke, John Bill, Commander ; Will sail in about Ten Days : 
For Freight or Passage agree with John Trovp, or said Master. 
Just imported a parcel of Likely Negroes to be sold at publick 
Vendue, To-morrow at Ten o'Clock, at the Merchants' Coffee 
Honse," A New York price-current of August 6th, 1750, 
quotes coffee at 20 pence per pomid. The Merchants' Ooffee- 
House was destroyed by fire on December 18th, 1804. The 
site was afterwards occupied by the offices of the N'ew York 
Journal of Commeroe, one of the most prominent commercial 
newspapers in the country. AVhile the bounds of the city 
were somewhat limif«d, — Broadway extending only as far as 
Worth street, and the hne of Canal street and Bi-oadway waa 
so distant from the city that one of the Lutheran churches, to 
whom was offered six acres of land at that point, declined the 
gift because the land was not worth fencing in, — coffee-houses 
were numerous in New York. Richard Clarke Cook, who had 
boiighfr'the interest of Andrew Eamsey in the "King's Arms" 
on Dock street, near the Long Bridge, reopened it on May 7th, 
1750, as "The Gentlemen's and Exchange Coffee-House and 
Tavern." Perhaps the most famous was the City Tavern. It 
was built in the early part of the last century, by the Delaneey 
family, and still stands on the southeast comer of Broad and 
Dock, now Broad and Pearl streets. In 1757 it was occupied by 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTOBT OF COFFEE. 33 

Delancej, Eobinson & Co., for the sale of "East India goods, 
shoes, BtockingB, and ehiits, white and checked, fit for the army, 
■with a variety of other goods." On the loth of January, 1,762, 
the property was conveyed to Samuel Francis, or, as he after- 
wards signed his name, Samuel Fraunces. He was the Del- 
monico of that age, having been the proprietor of the " Mason's 
Arms," near the Bowling Green, the Vauxhall Gardens in 
Greenwich street, and the great Philadelphia stage-office in. 
Cortlandt street. Fraunees opened the house on Broad street 
as a tavern, under the sign of "Queen Charlotte." In 1765 
Fraunces retired, and was followed by John Jones. In 1766 
Jones withdrew in favor of Bolton & Sigell, who were thus 
advertised in II'oU's Ifew York Journal; — "Bolton & Sigell 
Take this method to acquaint the Pnbhck that they propose to 
open, on Monday next, a Coffee-House at the House of JMr. 
Samuel Francis, near the Exchange, lately- kept by Mr. John 
Jones, and known by the name of the ' Queen's Head Tavern,' 
where Gentlemen may depend upon receiving the best of 
Usage. As Strangers, they are sensible they can have no 
Pretensions to the Favour of the Public but wliat results 
from their readiness upon all occasions to oblige." The 
house enjoyed a fair share of business. The societies met 
there as in the time of Fraunces ; the Chamber of Commerce 
held its monthly meetings there until it secured a room of its 
own,; yet the business was not profitable, and in 1770 Mr, 
Sigell retired from the firm. In the same year Mr. Bolton 
gave up the business, and Fraunces again took possession. It 
was during this last term of Fraunces that the " City," or, as it 
was better known, " Fraunces's Tavern," acquired its celebrity. 
Large dinner-parties were held there, and among the societies 
that met in the upper rooms during the winter was the "Social 
Club." During the summer this Club encamped at Kip's Bay 
Meetings were held on Saturday evenings, and on the rolls were 



>y Go Ogle 



Si THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

the well-known names of John Jay, member of Congress, minis- 
ter to Spain, minister to England, and Governor of New York; 
Goiivemeur Morris, Hobert K. Livingston, Morgan Lewis, Eg- 
bert Benson, Gulian Verplanek, President of the Bank of New 
York ; John "\Yatts, Leonard and Anthony Lispenard, Richard 
Harrison, Peter Van Schaack, Daniel Ludlow, afterwards 
President of the Manhattan Bank; AVilliam Imlay, and Dr. 
Samuel Bard, Washington's favorite physician. The Club 
was broken up in 1775. In the parlor on the second floor of 
Fraunces's Tavern, on the 4th day of December, 1783, occurred 
the most sadly impressive scene in Washington's history. At 
noon the officers of the army were there assembled, at the re- 
quest of the great chieftain, to finally part. The scene has 
been so often described that it needs no repetition here. In 
1789, Praunces, or, as he was sometimes called, " Black Sam," 
became the chief steward in "Washington's household, at the 
residence of the first President, No. 3 Cherry street, near Frank- 
lin square, where we are told Mrs. Washington furnished her 
guests on New Year's day, 1790, with coffee, tea, plum and 
plain cake. 

The celebrated Tontine Coffee-House, on the north-west cor- 
ner of Wall and Water streets, was commenced in 1792, and was 
the scene of many stiiTing events in the annals of history and 
trade. The Merchants' Coffee-House, on the opposite comer, 
was then called the Old Ooffee-House, and its business was 
gradually transferred to the Tontine, to which place the Ex- 
change was moved from the dingy building in the middle of 
Broad street, between Pearl and the river, where it had been 
since the revolution. The following extracts from an article on 
tlie Tontine Coflfee-House will be i-ead with inter^t : — 

" In 1795 the old Ooffee-House was in full operation, but who 
can tel] as of the scenes therein? Who can call back the voices 



>y Go Ogle 



THE HISTOBT OF COFFEE. 35 

of the old merchants of that day, and repeat the stories they 
laughed over in the Coffee-House on 'opening night?' 

" At length the Merchants' Exchange moved further up Wall 
street, and sales of merchandise were not so frequent within the 
old house, but tlie long stoop on the Wall street front was etill 
used, an.l the advertisements of the day read, ' At X o'clock, in 
front of T. C, wHl be sold ' ." 

It was designed to provide a central location for the mercan- 
tile community. The merchants had long felt the need of some 
place where they could assemble and discuss the probable re- 
sults of trade and the various questions of the time, and d\iring 
their leisure indulge in a cup of prime old coffee without walk- 
ing to their distant homes in State street, Bowling Green, and 
the lower part of Greenwich street. The property was pur- 
chased by five merchants, and held by them under the provi- 
sions of the Tontine Association as the first board of directors. 

"In 1826 and 1827 the Tontine Coffee-House was in the 
hands of John Morse, who had formerly kept the old Stage- 
House at the corner of Church and Crown streets, New Haven. 
He turned the entire house into a tavern, and it so remained for 
several years. The first floor was in one room, running the full 
length of the house, and fronting Wall street. At the back of 
the room, extending nearly its whole length, was the old-fash- 
ioned bar. Jutting out fi'om the counter were curious arms of 
brass, supporting the thick, round, and mast-like timber on which 
the heavy dealers leaned while ordering refreshments. About 
the room were numerous small tables, and after supper, in fair 
weather, around the tables could be seen many of the wealthy 
city men, diminishing the contents of their pewter mugs, or 
planning, amid the curling smoke in the room, their operations 
for the next.day. Morse was not suec^sful in the Tontine, and 
was finally sold out for the benefit of ' whom it might concern.' 

"In 1832 it was kept as a hotel by Lovejoy & Belcher, and 



>y Go Ogle 



36 THE HISTOET OF COFFEE. 

was the scene of several brilliant Masonic dinners. The lodges, 
in annual parade, would march from the City Hotel, on Broad- 
way, down to Broad street ; through Broad ta Pearl, and thi-ough 
Pearl street to Wall and the Coffee-House — which they thought 
a long tramp. After the banquet the march would be resumed 
along Pearl to Beebman street, up Beekman to Chatham street, 
down Chatham to Broadway and the City Hotel. 

Caldwell & Kenyon kept a restaurant in the basement; 
they afterwards sold out to Charles Ridabock, familiarly known 
as the ' Alderman.' Charles was a heavy, good-natured Ger- 
man, who kept the dirtiest shop and the beet oysters in the city. 
He had been for many years an employ^ of George Washing- 
ton Browne. 

In 1823, when the entire block on the west side of Water 
street, between Pine and Wall streets, was mainly occupied by 
the stores and offices of auctioneers, a hotel was opened on the 
opposite side, at Kos. 123 and 125 Water street, by George 
Washington Browne, and called the ' Auction Hotel.' The host 
had many friends among the merchants and was well patronized. 
Some years later, in 1832, the physicians in the city urged all 
to abstain from drinking beer and wine, and to drink pure 
coffee, in order to avoid the cholera, then epidemic. Browne 
immediately opened a large and convenient coffee-room on the 
first floor of the hotel, and the wonders of coffee as a sanitary 
beven^ were highly commended. The hotel became familiarly 
known as Browne's Coffee-House and was a favorite dining- 
plaee. A number of merchants that dined there became known 
as 'the club; ' such men as Thomas H. Paile, John J, Boyd, 
Samuel Paxon, Edward Penfold, George W. Blunt, Gilbert 
Davis, and other well-known New Yorkers could daily be met 
there. The club has ceased to meet, bnt the hotel is open, and 
the coffee-room and restaurant are still patronized. 

On the south-east of what is now Pine and William streets, 



>y Go Ogle 



THE BISTORT OF COFFEE. 37 

there stood from the year 1812 to 1830 the Bank Coffee-Honee, 
kept by William Niblo. Adjoining it on the rear was a garden, 
and the building formerly occupied by the Bank of New York, 
the first banking institution established in this city. Pine 
street was then lined with, the residences of prominent lawyei-a 
and merchants. The houses were nearly all built of brick, with 
sunken areas in front. Mr. Niblo wasthen a young, active man, 
taking great pride in the reputation of his caf^, and soon made 
it famous for its suppers given by Benedicts taking leave of 
their bachelor friends. In 1S30 the Bank Coffee-House passed 
into other hands and was torn down, Niblo going to Broadway 
and Prince street, where he opened the gardens which bore 
his name. 

The cheerful name of coffee-house has somewhat lost its sig- 
nificance in New York with the establishment of the more pre- 
tentions hotels, and in them the coffee-rooms are shorn of many 
pleasant associations. Within a few years a desire has been 
shown to establish richly appointed and well-ordered cafea, 
managed by chefs from sunny France. Those who early em- 
barked in the business have enlarged their establishments, and 
new ones are constantly springing up in nearly every sec- 
tion of the metropolis, especially on the fashionable thorough- 
fares, and young New Yorkers have not been long in adopting 
the Parisian ideas and conveniences of the caf^, as a pleasant 
pla<;e to stroll in after the opera or theatre. 

To judge of the estimate in which coffee is held in the United 
States, it is only necessary to refer to the table showing the 
annual average consumption to see that we are by far the 
largest coffee-consumers in the world ; six-fold more than some 
of the States of Europe, Germany and France stand nest to 
ourselves in the rank of great coffee-drinkers. 



>y Go Ogle 









^'^C 




4 -^Vi^V ^'^4- 




*^^ 



plants connect tngetlier thiee dif 
feient qnaiters nf the glebe, which 
mi^ht otheiwise ha\e knu-wn com 
piiitneli little of eich othei 
\iabii 19 lulled to Aniciua and 
Lmope b-y hei (oftee, China, by 
hei tea and tobacco 1ms been for 
i„eB one of the connecting com- 
mercial bond^ bet\\een tlie two 
hemisplitics 

Befoie lefeiim^ to the various 
methods ci cultnation it may not be inappiopnate, briefly 
to debcnbe the plant itself Cofee, a cinclionaceoiifi genus. 




>y Go Ogle 



OTJLTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 39 

conaisting of many species of tropical berry-bearing shrubs, 
one of which, Coffwa Arahica, — the only one which is 
enltiyated, — is a native of Upper Ethiopia and Arabia 
Felix. This is the parent of the plant from whose crushed 
berries we derive that delightful aromatic drink called cof- 
fee. This albuminous Bubstance — the coffee of commerce 
— is to that plant what the flour is to com, the white 
meat to a cocoa-nut, and the aromatic ruminated substance 
to the nutmeg. It is a secretion formed in the interior 
of the seed, and enveloping tlie embryo plant, for whose 
support it is destined when it fii'st begins to germinate ; it 
constitutes the principal part of the seed, the embryo being 
itself a minute body lying in a cavity at one end of the al- 
bumen, 

Linnteus place8 the plant among the Pentandria Monogy- 
nia ; its flower consists of one funnel-shaped petal, with a 
slender tube, nearly cylindrical, much longer than the flower- 
cup. It is described botanically as an ever-green shrub in its 
native state, having oval, shining, sharp-pointed leaves, white, 
fragrant, five-cleft clustered coi-ollas, with projecting anthers, 
and oblong pulpy berries, which are at first of a bright red 
color, but afterwards become purple. The dark-green leaves, 
shining brilliantly in the sun, afford a beautiful contrast to the 
pure white, jessamine-like blcssoms that cluster and nestle 
among the foliage ; which ever and anon turns fitfully up with 
the breeze its white under-hning, and glitters like the foam- 
crest on the ocean wave. Its leaves resemble those of the 
common laurel, although ntit so dry and thick. From the 
angle of the leaf-stalks small groups of the white flowers issue, 
which, as already stated, resemble those of the jessamine. These 
flowers fade very soon, and are replaced by a kind of fruit not 
unlike a cherry, which contains a yellow fluid envelopjhg two 
small seeds or berries, convex upon one side, flat and farrowed 



>y Go Ogle 



40 CULTIVATION OP COFFEE DT TAEIOTJS C0UNTEIE9. 

Upon the other. These seeds are of a homy or cartilaginous 
nature ; they are ghied together, each being aarrounded with a 
peculiar coriaceous membrane. The period of flowering does 
not last more than two days. In a single night the blossoms 
expand so profusely that the trees appear as if covered with 
snow. The seeds are known to be ripe when the berries have 
a dark red color. 

Travellers and planters tell us that nothing can be conceived 
more delightful than the appearance and perfume of a coffee 
plantation in full bloom. The air is liUed with fragrance, and 
the trees appear as if a shower of snow had just fallen on their 
dark-green glossy leaves, which are almost entirely hidden by 
the pi-ofusion of delicate white blossoms. This rare beauty is, 
however, but short-lived,— for the splendid array of the morn- 
ing may, perchance, fade away with the heats of noon, or 
the mellowing tints of even. 

Prof. Baird, speaking of a plantation in the West Indies, says : 
*' Anything in the way of cultivation more beautiful or more fra- 
grant than a coffee plantation I had not conceived : and oft did 
I say to myself that if ever I became, from health or otherwise, 
a cultivator of the soil within the tropics, I would cultivate the 
coffee-plant, even though I did so irrespective altogether of the 
profits that might be derived from so doing. Much has been 
written, and not without justice, of the rich fi-agrance of an 
orange-grove ; and at home we ofttimea hear of the sweet odors 
of a bean-field, I too have often enjoyed, in the Carse of 
Stirling and elsewhere in Scotland, the balmy breezes as they 
swept over the latter, particularly when the sun had burst out 
with unusual strength after a shower of rain. I have likewise 
in Martinique, Santa Cruz, Jamaica, and Cuba inhaled the gales 
wafted from the orangeries ; but not for a moment would I 
compare either with the exquisite aromatic odors from a coffee 
plantation in full blow, when the hiU-side, quite covered over 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOCS COUNTRIES. 41 

with the regular rows of the tree-like shrub, with their millions 
of iessamine-like fiowera, showers do-wn upon jou as you ride 
up, between the plants a perfume of the most delicately deli- 
cious description. 'Tis worth going to the West Indies to see 
the sight and inhale the perfume." 

Tumbull, another authority on the subject, tells us that " the 
fragrance of the gardens of the Tuileries is as inferior to that 
of the Moorish gardens of the Alcazar, at Seville, as these- last 
— with all the care bestowed upon them — are excelled by some 
neglected orange-grove in Cuba or St. Domingo. Nor is the rich 
fragrance of the orange-grove to be compared for a moment 
with the aromatic odors of a coffee plantation, — when its 
hundred thousand trees have just thrown out their unrivalled dis- 
play of jessamine-like flowers,— reminding you of what you 
may have read in Eastern fable of the perfumes of ' Araby the 
blest ! ' " It is also amid the prodigal luxuriance and splen- 
dors of tropical vegetation that the coffee-plant most loves to 
linger, loading the atmosphere with its perfumed sweets, as 
well as regaling the eye with its rare beauty, Ko wonder that 
such surpassing scenes of beauty should inspire the poet to such 
utterance as the following ; — 

' ' Eartli from ter lap perennial verdure poare, 
Ambrosial fcuitiB and amaranthine (lowers : 
Over wild mountains and luxuriant plains, 
Nature in all lier pomp of beauty reigne ! 
Stem Winter Bmilea on this anapioioua olime ; 
The fieldfl are florid in eternal prime ; 
From the bleak polo no winda inclement blow, 
Mould the round hail, or fla^e the fleecy snow ; 
But from the breezj deep the groves inhale 
The fragrant murmurs of the eastern gale ! " 



The clustered trees of the golden Mocha in their native soil 
present a strange contrast, however, with the aspect of the land- 
scape farther northward, "There," states a recent authority, 



>y Go Ogle 



42 CTJLTrVATION OP COFFEE m VARIOUS COUNTEIES. 

" a low, sandy shore affords a free view over vast treeless plains 
■which stretch in sad monotony as far as the eye can reach, 
while the cloudless sky sends down an almost insupportable 
heat ; only here and there a limited pasture, with lean grass and 
a few graceful palm-trees, breaks the mournful uniformity ; in 
the grateful shade a few Bedouins rest under their black tents, 
while their brethren hasten on the uncouth dromedary through 
the yellow desert. Very different is the scene on the southern 
slope of the great peninsula ; for here an abundant, fragrant 
vegetation unfolds its riches and enchants the senses ; incense 
grows like the juniper of our woods ; whole forests of pabn-trees 
overahadow the lower parts of the moimtains, and vast stretches 
of durra wave like golden grain in the gentle breeze. This is 
the home of the coffee-tree." 

Amid such profusion of natural beauty rises the graceful 
plant that bears the berry we so much prize. Not only does 
the plant load the air with delicious perfume, but beautiful 
butterflies are ever fluttering among its honeyed blossoms, suck- 
ing sweets ; while locusts are chirping on every branch, and a 
cloudless blue sky looks down upon the exuberant splendor, till 
the blossoms fade, and become transmuted in process of time 
into a red berry, the kernel of which is the coffee-bean. "While 
these berries are maturing and becoming dark purple — such 
are the effects of a tropical climate — ^the tree produces a second 
and a third crop of snowy blossoms, so that the beautiful green 
pyramidal branches are garnished with buds, and flowers, and 
fruits, at every stage of development. 

Coffee is etill cultivated in " Araby the blest," the coffee- 
gardens there being on terraces which rea^h to an elevation 
of about 3,000 feet. The soil is kept moist by means of 
small artificial canals, which are made to irrigate the whole 
by the water falling from the upper to the lower terraces. 
The trees here are planted so closely together that the thick 



>y Go Ogle 



CXJLTIVATION OP COFFEE IN TAEIOUS COimTEIES. 43 

foliage ahelters their roots from the tropical heat of the 
sun. 

Niebuhr states that the plant wae brought from Abjesinia 
by the Arabs to Yemen. Por ages it is believed to have 
been cultivated in the hilly range of Jabal. Here the 
plants are grown in a soil continually irrigated, and where 
trees of various kinds are interspersed among the plantations, 
whose shade has a beneficial effect upon the coffee bushes. 
The fruit begins to ripen in February ; and when the seeda 
are prepared they are conveyed to the city of Beit el Fakih, 
whence part goes to Mocha, another portion to Hodeida 
and Loheia, whence it finds its way to Djedda and Suez, 
for the Turkish and European markets. 

Coffee, it has been. proved, can be cultivated with great ease 
and to any extent in the republic of Liberia, being indigenous 
to the soil and found there in abundance. It bears more fruit 
there and lasts longer than elsewhere. A single tree at Mora- 
via, it is said, has yielded the enormous quantity of 16 pounds 
at one gathering. It was estimated some years since that there 
were about 30,000 coffee-trees in one of the counties, that of 
Grand Bassa, and the quality of the produce was stated to be 
equal to the best Java. About the villages and settlements of 
the Sherbro Hiver and Sierra Leone, wild coffee-trees are very 
abundant. 

If, as it has been computed, there are now consumed 
annually a thousand milhon pounds of the precious bean, 
Coffee can no longer be said to hold an insignificant place 
among the staples of trade. On the contrary, its impor- 
tance as such can hardly be over-estimated, when it is remem- 
bered to what vast multitudes of persons its cultivation, 
transportation, and preparation for use afford profitable means 
of support. 

There is scarcely any other item of commerce that has made 



>y Go Ogle 



41: CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOITS COUNTRIES. 

more rapid progress in the world, or gained for itself more 
general acceptation with all classes, than coffee. Its conBtantly 
increasing cbnsumption as a beverage, as seen by the statistical 
tables, clearly proves that it may be regarded not only aa one of 
the necessities of civilized life, but also as a very important one. 
Two things connected with coffee conduce to its popularity, — 
its refreshing, restoring, and exhilarating qualities and its non- 
inebriating influence, A beverage that shall be found to 
combine tlieee essential requisites is, indeed, a sine qud non 
with multitudes, who, while they would seek the stimulant, 
would also avoid the penalty of the intoxicating draught. 
Coffee, therefore, is to be regarded as an auxiliary to temper- 
ance ; since its use tends largely to supersede that of spirituous 
li^iore. This continued increase in the demand for the bever- 
age, irrespective of climatic influences, will of necessity extend 
the present area of its cultivation largely into those belts 
of land which are favorable to the production of the plant. 
These lands are found lying principally between the isothermal 
lines of 25° north and 30° south of the equator, as may be 
seen by reference to the accompanying Map. It has been 
ascertained that the plant cannot be grown to advantage in 
places where the thermometer descends at any time below 55°. 

Besides the existing countries where coffee is cultivated, 
there are many other places where it might be extensively 
grown, such, for instance, as the western coast of Africa 
generally, the interior ranges of Natal, the mountain ranges 
on the northern coast of Australia, from Moreton Bay to Torres 
Straits, <&c. Soil and climate are the circumstances which 
chiefly affect its commercial value. 

The cultivation of coffee is now widely diffused over all the tro- 
pical parts of the world. It is found in most of the West India 
Islands,, in the provinces of Central America, Cayenne, Peru, 
Bolivia, and especially Brazil — the greatest market of alL It 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN TAHIOXJS COtJNTRIES. 45 

is widely spread over Arabia, the western coast of India, 
Ceylon, Sumatra, Bourbon, Mauritius, Java, and some of the 
Pacific Islands; and in many of these places it is found in 
climates differing as much as 20° in average temperature. 
By reference to the -Map, a bird's-eye view may be obtained 
of the several places where the berry is most cultivated or 
where it may be advantageously produced. According to 
M. Lascellee, "The coffee-plant will bear extremes of cli- 
mate better than most plants. In Jamaica it is found on 
the Blue Mountain, upwards of 6,000 feet above the sea; 
and in the East Indies it is seen growing, and producing at 
Coonoor on the Neilgherries, at a similar elevation ; whilst, on 
the other hand, it is also seen growing at the level of the sea 
in both hemispheres, a difference of average temperature of 
from 20° to 30°. It has been contended by some that the 
coffee produced at a high elevation is of a finer quality than 
that grown in a warmer temperature ; this is, however, gener- 
ally considered questionable." 

" AVhen grown at the extremes of climate it is small, gener- 
ally much hghter, and the actual number of berries is far less 
than that grown in a genial climate. Experience has proved 
that from lat. 6° to 12° an elevation of from 3,000 to 4,000 feet 
is the most suited, whilst beyond this 500 feet of elevation 
should be allowed for every degree of latitude. It is now an 
ascertained fact that much of the far-famed Mocha coffee is 
produced in the East Indies and shipped to Mocha ; and no in- 
considerable portion also comes from the low land of Kaffa and 
Enarea, in Africa. The excellence of Mocha coffee appears to 
conBist more in the name and method of curing than any other 
cause." 

A recent authority remarks: "It is often the case that theory 
is opposed to practice in upholding the idea that there is any 
substantial difference in the coffee grown in different countries. 



>y Go Ogle 



46 CULTIVATION OP COFrEE IN TABIOTTS COUNTRIES. 

Where auch difference is really found to exist, it will generally 
be the result of different modes of cultivation and preparation 
for the market, or what is known as curing. 

" The quantity of rain is f onnd to exercise a material effect 
on the quality of the crop, and a dry climate produces a 
better flavored and more colory bean than the excessive 
moisture prevalent on some of the most highly esteemed 
districts, both in the eastern and western hemispheres. It may 
be mentioned in proof of the first of these statements, that the 
size and appearance of the bean have been entirely changed 
by improved or neglected cultivation, and in one estate in 
India the beans are scarcely larger than sweet-peas, owing to 
the proprietor having adopted a theory of never pruning the 
trees; whilst several estates that had been neglected have 
improved both in quality and quantity of produce to an extent 
scarcely credible since they have been manured and pruned. 
Seeds from Mocha, Brazil, and Java have been tried in Ceylon 
and India, and the produce has not differed in any respect 
from that of _ tlie plants already in existence there. An 
exce^ively moist climate has further a tendency to pro- 
duce long, weak, elongated shoots, drooping at the extremi- 
ties, and the foliage thin, the leaf long, but devoid of sub- 
stance. 

" The coffee-tree flourishes in hilly districts where its root 
can be kept dry while its leaves are refreshed with frequent 
showers. Rocky ground with rich decomposed mould in the 
flssures agrees best with it. Though it would grow to the 
height of fifteen or twenty feet, yet it is usually kept down 
by pruning to that of five feet, for increasing its productive- 
ness, as well as for the convenience of cropping. It begins 
to yield fruit the third year, but is not generally in full 
bearing until the fifth. In coffee husbandry the plants 
should be placed eight feet apart, as the trees throw out 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION- OF COFFEE IN VAEI0U3 COUNTRIES. 47 

extensive horizontal branches, and in holes ten or twelve feet 
deep, to eeeure a constant supply of moisture. 

" The berries, aa a general rule, when ripe are picked and 
spread out on large drying-grounds, and are dried with the 
pulp and parchment on the bean; when thoroughly dry 
the berries are passed under wooden rollers, or pounded in 
wooden mortars, and the outer skin being thus removed, the 
beans are winnowed, garbled, sized and packed for the market. 



is seldom so even in color 
is better. This method is, 
Owing to the much 



The coffee prepared in this way i 
and appearance, but the aroma : 
however, open to serious objectio 
greater bulk of the coffee before the pulp is removed, the 
room for drying would require to be very extensive, and as 
coffee is very liable to ferment in the pulp, it must be laid 
very thin, and constantly turned ; whilst in the event of wet 
weather or exposure to moisture, or the equally dangerous 
alternative of heaping it up, the whole would ferment and 
be utterly spoiled," 

The system pursued by most planters for removing the 
pulp is by machinery. After being washed and put on the 
barbecues to dry, it is of importance to keep the coffee 
constantly turned until it is all surface-dry, and the beans 
cease to adhere to each other, but it should not be exposed 
to sun or wind until the parchment cracks, as every hour's 
exposure to the atmosphere, after that is removed, takes 
away both from the color and the aroma of the bean. Of 
course what has been said presupposes that the coffee is 
picked when fully ripe, since no care in curing or packing 
will impart color or flavor to a half-ripe bean. For pacbmg, 
casks or cases are preferable to sacks, since coffee has a 
strong attraction for damp and for all scents, and its aroma 
will also suffer by its contact with any substance with which 
it may be brought into connection. There are said to be 



>y Go Ogle 



48 CULTIVATION OP COFFEE Eff VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

ten varieties of the cofEee, but only one ie found indigenous 
to India, and it is questionable if this is not the Mocha 
species introduced from Arabia. 

The teland of Ceylon is situated in the Indian Ocean, and 
belongs to Great Britain, Little is known of the aboriginal 
inhabitants of the island; at present they resemble the Hin- 
doos of the neighboring continent, and consist in part of 
Singhalese. The Singhalese spoken language is peculiar to 
this island; but their written language is either Pali or 
Sanscrit. Ceylon claims to possess historical records dating 
back some twenty-four centuries, and their authenticity as 
regards descriptions of ancient towns, buildings, and works of 
art is established by existing ruins, proving that the island had 
been at a remote period inhabited by a powerful and numerous 
people'. Ceylon was known to the Greeks and Romans in the 
time of Alexander ; it was also visited by traders in the sixth 
century, and by Marco Polo in the thirteenth century. Little 
■was known of it, however, until 1505, when the Portuguese 
established a regular intercourse with the island, being encour- 
aged thereto by the King of Kandy, who first paid them 
tribute in cinnamon, to defend the island against the Arabian 
pirates. The Portuguese were subsequently expelled by the 
Dutfih, who in turn were driven from the island by the 
British. " The total export of coffee from Ceylon in the year 
1837 was valued at less than $500,000. 

" In 1870 the export was over 94,000,000 lbs., equivalent to 
fully $17,500,000 in the consuming markets. Within the past 
fifteen years even the number of coffee plantations in Ceylon 
has increased from 404 to 1,004; the extent of land planted 
from 80,000 acres to 200,000, or over 312 square miles, and 
the crops have generally been favorable. • This is exclusive of 
coffee cultivated by the natives in their gardens, supposed to 
cover 50,000 acres more. 'Native' cofEee is the kind usually 



>y Go Ogle 



CITLTIVATION OP COFFEE IN TAEIOUS COUNTRIEa. 49 

exported from Ceylon to Earope, America, and the Anstralian 
colonies, and it ie prepared for the market after a different 
fashion from the plantation kinds, which are generally dearer. 
There are now 1,000 working coffee plantations in Ceylon, 
requiring 200,000 coolies (men, women, and children from 
Southern India) to cultivate and gather crops, and worth for 
the 313 miles of cultivation, together with the buildings, 
machinery, and etock, not less than $35,000,000." 

The most suitable soil in the East Indies for the coffee-plant 
is that which grows soft timber. The latest authorities seem 
to confirm the opinion of Laborie, who observes : " If the first 
(taproot) finds tiie quickstone, gravel-stone, or clay, the tree 
will not last long ; but if it, as well aa the roots, find their 
way through stony ground, and if there be a good proportion 
of mould, it suffers no inconvenience, as the stones keep the 
mould together." The finest estates are said to be of this latter 
character of soil, and have given consecutively heavy crops, 
with the assistance of little or no manure. While estates of a 
lighter soil, having lost nearly all the mould, and having no 
good subsoil, have to be regularly manured. In a word, a 
dark chocolate-colored soil, mixed with small stones, under 
ledges of rock, and bestrewn with bouldere, is the best ; and 
the most favorable elevation is 3,000 feet. A level piece of 
virgin ground, not far from water, where the soil is rich and 
crumbly, is the most eligible for the construction of a nursery. 
First the land must be thoroughly cleared, and all but the 
largest stumps of the forest-trees rooted ont ; the soil must be 
dug to the depth of nine or twelve inches, and be made as 
friable as possible, then divided into beds with narrow paths 
between them, the seed, in parchment (generally taken from 
the cisterns after being pulped), should be put in, row by row, 
about six inches apart, A rope the length of the beds is used 
for this purpose, stretched from one end of the beds to the 



>y Go Ogle 



50 CTJLTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VABJOUS COUNTRIES. 

other. The eeed, if sown in suitable weather, soon makes its 
appeEu-ance above the surface ; so that a nursery made in 
May or June of one year has plants fit to put out at the 
same date in the following year. A slightly inclined piece of 
land is more desirable for a nursery, because the natural drain- 
age would be better ; and it is important that care should be 
taken to prevent damage by heavy rains. One bushel of parch- 
ment coffee is calculated to yield about 30,000 plants ; so that 
for a clearing of 100 acres, four or five bushels of seed would 
be required. When the young trees in a nursery have attained 
a growth and age at which their being planted out as plants 
becomes rather a doubtful proceeding, with reference to the 
probability of their succeeding and taking root, it is better to 
make " stumps " of them : this is done by pulling them up, 
with as little injury as possible to the roots, and cutting them 
down to about six inches above the root ; then to shorten the 
tap-root by a careful eloping cut ; next to trim the other lateral 
roots, which are often needlessly extended. FiUing in is the 
operation that follows holing. It has been ascertained by 
experience, that leaving the holes open for some time ie very 
beneficial to the soil in a chemical point of view. Filling in, 
like every other work on a coffee estate, should be carefully 
superintended. But of all operations in the formation of 
a coffee plantation, the actual placing of the plants in the 
holes is the one that requires the utmost care and attention. 
Early planting is, of course, desirable, because the trees have 
the benefit of the entire rainy season, and are sure to give a 
larger maiden crop. The usual course of transferring the 
plants is as follows: when pulled up, those with crooked 
roots should he picked out and thrown away ; the roots should 
then be trimmed, with a sharp knife, diminishing the length 
of the tap-root sufficiently to prevent the chance of its being 
bent or broken. The plant should not be put deeper into the 



>y Go Ogle 



CUITIVATIOH OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTEIES. 51 

earth than it was before it was pulled up ; it sliould then be 
pressed down with the hands or firmly trodden down. A 
coffee plantation, to be worked effectively, requires to be well 
" roaded '' and drained. Drains, like roads and' paths, should 
be cut aa soon as the estate is commenced, or at all events 
before- the trees cover the ground, or the coffee will suffer. 
These drains are usually about fifteen inclies wide and deep, 
and at the distance of every twenty trees, which would be 
about 120 feet apart. As weeds are the bane of coffee estates, 
tbey are to be constantly cleared off, at least once a month. 
Wben the trees have been freed from suckers, and have 
reacbed twelve or eighteen months, the operation of tapping ia 
usually conunenced. The advantages for the custom are thus 
detailed by Zaborie : " First, it brings the fruit within easy 
reach,, and' prevents the branches being broken; secondly, the 
tree thereby acquires strength and vigor both below and above 
groundj and the stem becomes larger in circumference; 
thirdly, it affords less hold to the winds ; fourthly, the form of 
the tree is more beautiful ; and fifthly, it loses none of ita 
inferior branches, which, as nearer the source of vegetation, 
are better noiirisbed, and, of course, more productive." Plant- 
ers have observed that the part of the tree most exposed to the 
sun and air usually bears the heaviest clusters ; therefoi'e the 
more the tree is thinned out, fhe more it bears. This is 
exemplified by young trees in their second and third crops, 
which bear very heavily, chiefly from the primaries and 
secondaries. Commonly, coffee-trees bear heavily one year 
and lightly the next. Eegular pruning and searching have 
been found to prodnce the most satisfactory result. 

The next thing in order is the handling, which should be 
done twice if practicable before crop. If the force on the 
estate admits of it, the prunings should be buried in trenches 
between the trees. They soon turn into vegetable mould, 



>y Go Ogle 



52 CXILTITATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS C0UNTRIE3. 

and the loosening of the soil and cutting of the long fibrons 
roots very mueh invigorate the trees. In the same manner, 
the young wood, after the searcliing, may be buried with 
great advantage to the surrounding trees. No branch should 
be allowed to bear more than two, or at most three crops; 
it should then be removed to malie room for a fresh one. 
As the same wood never bears twice, the branches, if allowed 
to bear more than three crops, degenerate into mere whips, 
bearing only a few berries at the extremities. No definite 
rule can be given for pruning old trees, however ; as M. 
Sabonadiere informs us, much depends xipon their condition. 
He states that he took charge of an estate, some portions of 
it at a great elevation. The trees had not been pruned for 
some years, and were a mass of thick cross branches and 
matted leaves ; a man might have made a bed on the top of 
them. It would never have done to reduce these trees at 
once to mere primaries or parrot-poles. The course pursued 
was to saw out the ero^ bi'anches, and open out the 
centre of the trees about eighteen inches in circumference; 
then to take ofE and tliin out about half the remaining wood : 
the effect was wonderful. They were afterward handled 
once or twice, and the result has been a very good crop, 
on a property whicb had not yielded a remunerative one 
for many years. Tliis pruning also seemed to drive 
away t!ie coffee-bug, and much reduced its ravages. Only 
during the three or four days of blossom-time is it advisa- 
able to stop pruning, otherwise much damage may be 
done, and the crop lost. After the blossom, and when it 
has set, all the more care is needed to prune with caution, 
the best branches being retained; while those which should 
have come off, even if they have crop upon them, must not 
be left. Sufficient pruning must be done to insure a supply 
of new wood, and to give health and vigor to th# tree to 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 53 

mature its crop. It has been effectually proved that 
draining to prevent wash and waste of soil, and a system 
of manuring while the trees are still young and vigorous, 
tend to prolong the age o£ estates. There is no doubt 
that, under such a system, cofFee-trees may have as long 
an existence as other evergreens; excepting, of course, 
such contingencies as over-bearing, attacks of grubs, the 
tap-root coming in contact with rock, or becoming rotten 
from swampy soil ; aU of which bring the tree to premature 
decay. Por that destructive scourge, the coffee-bug, the 
following remedy has been tried with great success : namely, 
— to apply saltpetre in a finely-powdered state, dusted 
over the tree when wet with rain or dew. 

Concerning manures much has been written ; but it is found 
by experience that those are the best which are in general use : 
these consist of bone-dust, poonac, guano, lime, salts, wood- 
ashes, burnt clay, pulp, and last, but not least, cattle-manure. 
Composts should be applied above the tree in semicircular 
holes ; they should be filled in with any prunings or vegetable 
matter at hand, and then covered by the loose top soil; 
the new earth from the holes should be used to cover the 
roots. The earth over the manure should be well trodden 
down, to prevent its being washed away by heavy rains, 
or turned up by careless weeders. The next process 
consists of picking, curing, and despatching the crop for 
market, "When coolies are turned out for gathering or 
picking they are provided with what is called in planter- 
pai'lanee a gunny-bag, holding from two to three bushels; 
they have also smaller sacks fastened round their waist; 
into these they first collect the berries, and then fill the 
larger vessels. When fully ripe, the sooner the coffee is 
pulped the better, otherwise it heats and the color of the 
parchment is spoiled. In dry weather it is sometimes 



>y Go Ogle 



54 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

necessary to sprinkle water over the cherry, and to let it 
soak for aome houi-s to make it pulpable ; since if passed 
through the pulpers in a dry state, it would be much cut 
and damaged. 

Amongst other items to be observed in the culture of coffee, 
the following are of important and practical value. The fruit 
should be gathered in when resembling ripe cherries ; it should 
then be measured and thrown into a loft above the pulper in a 
heap. It should be submitted to the first process of machinery, 
the pulper, within twenty-four hours after, if not immediately^ 
The pulped berries may remain a day and a night, for the 
process of fermentation ; the mucilaginous matter is to be 
then washed off. In an hour or so the coffee may then 
be removed for curing : it is there spread out thinly and 
exposed to the sun, which i,vill in eight or nine hours 
absorb all tlie water, and leave the coffee fit for housing. 
When coffee is perfectly cured — which is generally, ascer- 
tained by threshing out a few berries in one's hands, and 
seeing if it has attained its homy blue color— it is then 
fit for milling, which is the second process it has to undergo 
by machinery. Here the parcliment and silver skins are 
dislodged from the berry, by means of the friction of a 
large roller passing over the prodiice in a wooden trough. 
It is then submitted to the fanner or winnowing machine, 
and the coffee passed through two or three sieves, when 
it comes away perfectly clean, and thus, being sized, hand- 
picked, and packed, it is forwai'ded by mules or railroad 
to market. 

A recent eastern traveller, Bickmore, informs us that 
in the large wooden storehouses where the coffee is received 
fiom the interior, and kept for exportation, the rich aromatic 
fragrance given out by the berrj' differs much more than 
any one would believe from the ordinary fragrance to 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN YABIOFS COUNTRIES. 55 

which we are accuetomed. Here it is stored in bags, 
just as it comes in from the plantations. "In order that 
I might see what superior coffee the Minahassa produces," 
he says, "the Resident had several bags opened. I found 
the kernels, instead of being opaqiie, and having, as we 
usually see them, a tinge of bronze, were translucent 
and of a greenish-blue color. The best are those which 
have these characteristics, and at the same time are very 
hard. One of the first plants raised at Batavia was sent 
to Holland, where it bore fruit, and the plants from its 
seeds were carried to Surinam,' where they floiirished, and 
in 1718 eofEee began to be an article of export from that 
port. Ten years later it was introduced into the French 
and English islands of the "West Indies, having previously 
been successively introduced into Java and Holland. I am 
told that it was iirst brought here from Java by a native 
prince, and the remarkable manner in which it thrived 
having attracted the attention of the officials, more trees 
were planted. There has been a steady increase, both in 
the number of trees and in the quantity ' of fruit they 
have yielded; but yet not more than one-half the number 
are planted that might be, if the population was suiBciently 
great to take care of them. With such an enormous yield 
a large surplus is left in the hands of the government after 
it has paid the natives who cultivate it, the percentage to 
the chiefs, and the cost of transportation from the small 
storehouses in the interior to the large warehouses on the 
coast, from which it is put on board of vessels, for shipment 
to Europe and America." 

When Arahia enjoyed the exclusive monopoly of coffee, it was 
not suspected that one day the Island of Java would furnish 
for the use of the civilized world over 130 millions of pounds 
per annum. The selection of soil and situation best suited for 



>y Go Ogle 



56 OULTrVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

the growth and cultiire of coffee in Java, differs little essential- 
ly from that of other oriental plantations. Valleys lying between 
high mountains are preferred here for coffee-growing, because 
the soil which is washed down from the heights affords fresh 
food continually to the lowlands ; the valleys themselves are of 
the proper moisture, since the hills surrounding them attract 
the rain. 

The labor by which coffee is planted in Java and its produce 
collected is included among the oppressions or forced services 
of the natives, and the delivery of it into the government stores 
among the forced deliveries at inadequate rates. 

Previous to the year 1808 the cultivation of this plant was 
principally confined to the Sunda districts ; there were but 
comparatively few plantations in the eaetem districts, and the 
produce which they were capable of yielding did not amount 
to one-tenth part of the whole, but under the administration of 
Marshal Daendals this plant usurped the soil destined for the 
subsistence of the people ; every other kind of cultivation was 
made subservient to it, and the withering effects of a govern- 
ment monopoly extended their influence throughout every 
province of the island. 

In the Snnda districts each family was obliged to take care 
of 1,000 coffee-plants, and in the eastern districts, where new 
and extensive plantations were now to be formed on soils and 
in situations in many instances by no means favorable to the 
cultivation, 500 plants were the prescribed allotment. 

The United States and Holland are the principal markets 
for Java coffee, and it is distinguished into pale yellow and 
brown, varieties which depend on the curing and the age of 
tlie commodity J and not on the modes of culture or any differ- 
ence in the plants which yield them. 

The pale coffee is the newest and lowest priced, the brown is 
the oldest and most esteemed. Ckiffee stored in Java Icees the 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 57 

first year 8jS, the seeond, about 5^, and the third, about 2^, 
after wliich it continues stationary and assumes a brown color. 
This is the hrown cofEee of commerce. 

Eecent scientific discoveries have shown that tbe improve- 
ment caused by keeping Java coffee is owing to the evapora- 
tion of the cafEeie acid, which is the principle that imparts 
the harsh, bitter, and astringent taste, which cannot be disguis- 
ed. It is very much the same change that takes place in fine 
brands of wine, which acquire their rich, mellow flavors only 
by age. Old government Java cofEee has always been highly 
prized by epicures. Although there is some shrinkage in weight 
caused by keeping coffee for a length of time, still the great 
improvement and increased value more than counterbalances 
this loss. By carefully examining pale and brown Java coffee, 
much difference will be found in the smell of the raw bean. 
There is a particular spicy aroma about brown Java that the 
pale varieties never acquire until age has mellowed and chang- 
ed their appearance. 

There appeared a few years ago a work bearing the title of 
" Max Havelaar ; or, the Coffee Auctions of tlie Dutch Trading 
Company." The author wrote under the pseudonym of Mul- 
tatuli ; he was an assistant resident of the Dutch government 
in Java. The book appeared in the form of a novel, and treated 
of the incredible extortions and tyranny of which tlie natives of 
the Dutch Indies, " that magnificent empire of Insulind, which 
winds about the equator like a garland of emeralds," are the 
victims ; and hOw he tried in vain, while still in the service of 
the government, to put an end to the cruel oppressions that 
happen every day in those countries. Many considered it an 
interesting and captivating work of fiction, but the author 
maintained that it contained nothing but facts, and the govern- 
ment was challenged to prove the substance of the work to be 
false ; but its truth has never been disputed. It prov^ that 



>y Go Ogle 



58 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUMTEIES. 

what was written of the cruelties and Bufferings of American 
slavery, as described in Uncle TortCs CaMn, are nothing in 
comparison to the sufferings from the sjsteni of forced labor in 
the Indies. It is full of eccentricities, and the characters in- 
troduced are original and amusing ; among others a ilr. Dry- 
stubble is described as the type of a Dutch coffee-broker, who 
knows all about coffee, and makes his life siibservient to his 
vocation. It bears evidence througliout of having been written 
bj a genius of that order which only appears at intervals, and 
it serves to throw some little light on the habits of the millions 
of natives who dwell in the islands of the Indian Ocean, where 
so large a portion of our supplies of coffee are obtained. 

Of late years there has been a growing desire to know more 
about the great coffee-producing districts in Java and Sumatra, 
The opening of the Pacific Railroad and the successful operar 
tion of the submarine cables have done much to bring about 
more frequent communication with th^e important countries- 
American merchants have not been slow in availing themselves 
of the advantages in becoming better acquainted with those 
who have established important houses in tlie East Indies, and 
the writer is particularly indebted to Mr. Charles Dunlop, of 
Singapore, and Mr, John Peet, of Eatavia, for much valuable 
information concerning the cultivation of coffee. Both of these 
gentlemen recently visited this country, and from their exten- 
sive experience they were enabled to give to those interested in 
the importation of coffee many interesting details concerning 
the manners and customs of the natives, and how the great 
traffic with the interior was conducted by their respective 
houses for their foreign constituents. 

Not far from Ayar-Bangis is the port to which the coffee 
raised in the valley of Kau, in the interior, is brought down, 
to be hence shipped in praus to Padang, where it is placed 
in the government storehouses and sold at auction four times 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFJ'EE IN VAKIOUS COUNTEIES. 5i) 

a year, viz., in March, Jnne, September, and December. 
Natal, about twenty-live miles north of here, is the chief 
port to which is brought the valuable coffee raised in tlie 
fertile valley of Mandheling, of which port Elout is the 
capital. Mr. Eickmore refers to a portion of Sumatra 
where the Miisi makes a great bend to the soiith-west and 
the path leads eastward over a gently rising elevation, 
on the top of which is a large and most thriving coffee- 
garden, and near by are rice-fields which yield abundantly. 
"This garden has been very lately planted, and yet all 
the trees that are old enough to bear are nearly loaded 
down with fruit. The rice-fielda show that an abundance 
of food could be raised here, and the only thing that 
is wanting is people to do the work. The elevated sit- 
uation of this country makes ' it very healthy for for- 
eigners. If any one could obtain a grant of land here, 
and also the privilege of_bringing a large number of 
Chinamen, he would certah f realize a fortune, for coffee 
can be here cultivated wilA little care; and rice, the 
staple article of food among that people, can be raised 
in any quantity. Such a privilege could not be obtained at 
present, but the liberal tendency of the government of the 
Netherlands in India promises that it may be, at no distant 
time in the future. Such an enterprise would not have 
the character of an experiment, for the facility with which 
coffee and rice can be grown has already been shown on 
this plantation, and the cost of transporting it to Padang 
or Palembang would he very light. Sumatra tmdoubtedly 
contains large quantities of gold, but the true source of 
her wealth is not the precious metal she possesses, but the 
cups of coffee she produces." 

Of Brazil, the popular idea seems to have been, that it 
is a place of mighty rivers and strange-looking mountains, 



>y Go Ogle 



60 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

eartt quakes, anaeondae, alligators, with luxuriant fruits aud 
flowers, palms, with gayly plumaged birds and monkeys. 
But it ie all this and much more besides, — for its climate 
is perpetual summer, and its scenery the most beautiful 
known even to tropical regions. The empire of Brazil, 
although stretching over a territory nearly equal to one- 
half of the entire South American Continent, with a 
soil unsurpassed by any other in the world, yet num- 
bers only about ten millions of inhabitants, like most 
tropical countries, it does not evince the enterprise and 
energy so characteristic of the dwellers in higher lati- 
tudes. The Emperor, Dom Pedro, is, however, undoubtedly 
inspired with pi-ogressive ideas, although his subjects seem 
as decidedly opposed to them ; an apathetic indifference to 
all kinds of innovation or improvement holds them spell- 
bound to antiquated usages and obsolete forms. With a 
Boil so fertile and a climate so genial, all that seems requisite 
is the enterprise of capitalists, and the application of the 
hnproved industrial arts, to render Bra^dl a centre of greatly 
increased and increasing commercial importance. The 
recent abolition of slavery by the Emperor in all Government 
or State works, by the substitution of free labor, is of itself 
a great advance in the right direction; and the ultimate 
extinction of slavery generally will be accomplished when the 
existing slaves shall have passed away, since their children 
are bom free. When the swift railroad shall have wholly 
superseded the slow mule conveyance, commerce will pro- 
portionably increase, because capitalists and free labor will 
yield a more profitable return. Kio de Janeiro is distant from 
New York about four thousand eight hundred -miles ; that 
distance, however, might be virtually much reduced by the 
establishment of more frequent intercourse with it by 
steamers. Eailroads are already in operation, to some extent, 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN TABIOUS COONTBIBa 61 

under the sanction of the gOTemraent; and there are others 
projected. But we have not spoken of the remarkable beauty 
of the city, and especially of the Bay of Kio de Janeiro, which 
for picturesque scenery has been thought by some to rival 
even the peerless Bay of Naples. The former, which is en- 
tered by a narrow rocky portal, spreads out into an immense 
harbor, or inland lake, extending a distance of some score 
of miles, from north to south. Passing the Sugar-loaf at 
the entrance of the bay, you catch a view of the vast expanse 
of water and the distant Buceession of mountain-peake which 
enclose it, and which form a magnificent amphitheati'e. 
They are called the Organ Mountains, from their seeming 
resemblance to tlie pipes of an organ. Their height 
average? from six to seven thousand feet. The name Rio 
de Janeiro, literally, river of January, which is really a 
misnomer, it being a bay, not a river, took its rise from 
the tradition that it was discovered in that month, which 
is to the dwellers in that clime the hottest of their year. 
In close proximity with the city is the celebrated Botanical 
Garden, called Bota Foga, which is rich in all binds of 
rare exotics, including the banyan-tree, and has a splendid 
avenue of palms. 

Brazil, indeed, has been called the land of the Cocoa 
and the Palm; but it may with equal propriety be also 
designated the land of the coffee-tree; since, as we have 
already intimated, it is the great producing country whence 
we derive our principal supply of that essential to our 
domestic economy. 

Coffee, although a native of the Old "World, has long been 
one of the most important staples of the New. Meyen states 
that he even found some coffee-trees growing wild in Brazil, 
not far from Rio Janeiro, in the woods of Corcovado. It is the 
great commercial staple of the empire of Brazil, which, 



>y Go Ogle 



62 CUT-TIVATION OF COFFEE IS VARIOUS 

beyond comparison, is now tlie greatest coffee producing country 
of the globe. Java is the next in order, and although the lat- 
ter does not yet contribute one-half the quantity of the former, 
yet it fumiehee nearly three times as much as other jnarkets. 
The United States alone imported fi'om Brazil, in 1S71, over 
two hundred million pounds of Eio coffee. (See Table.) 

The first coffee-tree in Brazil was planted in 1754, by 
Friar Villaso, in the garden of the San Antonio Convent at 
Rio de Janeiro. Brazil was then governed by the Marqiiis 
de Lavradio, as Viceroy. The first fruits of the tree were 
presented to the Marquis, who distributed them among the 
planters, explaining to them the advantages of adding another 
valuable article of produce to the country ; but, strong in their 
prej'udices in favor of sugar and indigo, few took any pains to 
cultivate it, and the progress of increase was so slow and 
gradual, that in 1808, when Don Joas VI. fled from Portugal 
to Bio de Janeiro, and soon after opened the port for foreign 
trade, the annual crop of coffee did not exceed 30,000 bags of 
160 pounds each. The increase until 1S20 was very moderate, 
tlie crop then being about 100,000 bags. The high prices 
ruling in Europe, caused by the falling off in production and 
i of consumption all over the world, stimulated the 
i of Brazil to extend their cultivation of coffee, espe- 
cially as the price of sugar had declined, and indigo, from its 
inferior quality, became neglected ; also that much less capital 
was required for the cultivation of coffee. The importation of 
slaves at that time was great, prices low, and they were sold to 
planters on long credits, payment being received for them in 
produce. This enabled those of small means to buy estates. 
Crops being abundant, and favorable prices obtained, they 
were soon able to pay off their debts, and establish the custom 
of credit which was denied to siigar plantera, as that staple 
became unprofitable when brought into competition with Cuba, 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN TAKIOTJS COUNTEIES. 63 

Porto Rico, and other sugar-producing countriee. It is to be 
observed that while the cultivation of sugar waa declining in 
Brazil, and coffee increasing and supereediiig it, in Cuba 
coffee was falling off rapidly and sugar annually increaeing. 
We now find at the present time that there is hardly enough 
coffee raised in Cuba to supply the consumptive demand, 
and the importation of Java and Eio coffees has been found 
necessary to supply the increasing wants of the inhabitants of 
one of the principal producing countries of former times. It 
was not, however, until after the Haytian insurrection that coffee 
became an object of great cultivation and commerce in Brazil. 
In 1809 the first cargo, consisting of 1522 hags, was sent to 
Salem, in the United States, per ship Marquis de Someruelas, 
and all the coffee raised in the empire in that year scarcely 
amounted to 30,000 sacks, while in the Brazilian financial year 
of 1871 there were exported over two million sacks. 

The great importance which coffee has acquired of late years 
as a staple of commerce, very naturally suggests the inquiry as 
to the best means of still fui-ther promoting its culture. Since 
the spgar plantations of the "West Indies have so largely super- 
seded those of coffee, attention has been directed to other geo- 
graphical points suited to its growth. Until the era of the 
French revolution, the cultivation of coffee could scarcely be 
said to have reached the South American continent ; till then 
it was in a great measure confined to Arabia and the Caribbean 
Archipelago. Its extreme scarcity during the Napoleonic wars 
enhanced its price so enormously, that on the first announce- 
ment of peace, in 1814, many coffee-plantations were formed on 
the Costa Firme of South America, along the Brazilian shores 
of that continent, and even on the southern coast of Africa. 
Not content, however, with the natural increase of the demand 
now so universally made for this important berry, France, 
England, and America seem to have entered into a friendly al-. 



>y Go Ogle 



6i CULTIVATION OF COFFEE ES" VARIOUS COUNTEIBS. 

liauce in endeavoring to stimulate yet farther the production 
by means of premiumB for the moat improved machinery and 
inventive ekill devoted to its culture and preparation. 

The great cofEee region is on the hanliB of the Eio Parahiba 
and in the province of San Paulo ; but every year it is more 
widely cultivated, and a considerable quantity is now grown in 
provinces farther northward. It can be planted by burj'ing 
the seeds or berries (which are double), or by slips. The 
plants which have been taken from the nursery with balls of 
mould around their roots wUl bear fruit in two years ; those 
detached from the earth will not produce until the third year, 
and the majority of such shrubs die. In the province of San 
Paulo and the richest portions of Minas-Geraes one thousand 
trees will yield from 2,560 to 3,200 pounds ; in Eio de Janeiro, 
from 1,600 to 2,560. In some parts of San Paulo, one thousand 
trees have yielded 6,400 pounds ; but this is rare. In the 
province of Eio de Janeiro, trees are generally cut down every 
fifteen yeare ; there are some cajlers, however, which continue 
to bear several years longer. As a general rule they are not 
allowed to exceed eight feet in height, so as to be in reach. 
There are three gatherings in the year, and the berries are 
spread out upon pavements, or level portion of ground (the 
terreno), whence they are taken when dry, and denuded of the 
hull by machinery, and afterward conveyed to market. 

In Brazil, coffee is planted in the following manner : " The 
fresh beans are sown generally in the shade, of coffee-trees, and 
the little plants are token up, with the earth about them, so 
soon as they have reached the height of twelve inches. They 
are so planted that the stems are from four to six feet apart. 
By cutting off the rankest shoots, the coffee-trees in plantations 
are prevented becoming more than twelve feet in height, that 
the fruit which ripens in the 20th, or even not till the 32d 
month after the transplantation, may be the more easily 



>y Go Ogle 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN TAEIOUS COUNTRIES. Go 

plucked. After four or five years the crop is yery good, and 
then one serrant ia kept for every 1,000 plants. The coffee- 
tree yields three crops annually, which furnish employment for 
almost the whole year. 




>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

It may seem almost superfluous to devote a chapter to the 
diBcussion of the best method of making a cup o£ coffee ; but 
since more depends upon the manner in which it is made than 
is usually imagined, it may not be inappropriate to offer a few- 
words upon the subject. 

"We propose, therefore, to allude briefly to the many modes 
which have been resorted to for preparing and making coffee, 
both at home and abroad. While we do not deny the ad- 
vantages of many of the following methods, it is believed 
that the process of distillation, by the direct application of 
steam heat, _aa fully described in the closing remarks of 
this chapter, is eventually destined to be the universal favo- 
rite. First of all, before speaking of the manner of pre- 
paring the berry as a beverage, we will mention that the 
leaf of the coffee-plant is used in the Eastern Archipel- 
ago by the natives as a substitute for tea. They roast the 
leaves over a clear, smokeless fire, after which they are picked 
from the twigs, and when immersed in boiling water they form 
an agreeable drink. A few years ago the attention of the 
scientific world was drawn to this subject, in the first instance, 
by Brande, and subsequently by "Ward, in his able papere 
pubhshed in the Singapwe J^ee Press and elsewhere. He 
seems to claim for roasted coffee-leaves a value unsurpassed by 
the berry itself. " It was well known," he says, " that they had 
been long employed in Sumatra under the name of coffee-tea." 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OP MAKISG COFFEE. 67 

That this preparation contaioa a considerable amount of the 
nutritious element of coffee is evident from the analysis ; but 
as the leav^ can only be collected in a good state at the expense 
of the coffee-plant, it is doubtful whether the coffee produced 
by the berries be not, after all, the cheapest, aa it certainly is 
the best. 

In Arabia we find the method of preparing and using coffee 
very interesting. Palgrave, in his recent work, gives full and 
entertaining descriptions of the manners and customs of tlie 
people and their great fondness for coffee. He thus describes 
an Arabian dwelling and their method of making coffee : — 

" The walls are cok>red in a rudely decorative way and sunk 
here and there into small triangular recesses, destined to the 
reception of books, lamps, and other such like objects. The 
roof of timber, and flat ; the floor strewed with fine clean sand, 
and garnished all around alongside of the walls witli long strips 
of carpet, upon which cushions, covered with silk, are disposed 
at suitable intervals. In poorer dwellings felt rugs usually 
take the place of carpets. 

"In one comer, that farthest removed from the door, stands a 
small fireplace or furnace, formed of a large square block of 
granite or some other hard stone ; this is hollowed inwardly into 
a deep funnel, open above, and communicating below with a 
small pipe-hole, through which the air passes, bellows-driven, to 
the lighted charcoal ; the water in the coffee-pot placed upon the 
funnel's mouth is thus readily brought to boil. This system of 
coffee furnaces is universal, and this comer of the dwelling or 
K'hawah, as it is called, is considered the place of distinction, 
whence honor and coffee radiate by progressive degrees round 
tlie apartment; and hereabouts accordingly sits the master of 
the house himself, or the guests whom he especially delights to 
honor. 



>y Go Ogle 



68 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE, 

" On the broad edge of tlie furnace stands an oBtentatioua 
range of coffee-pots, varying in size and form ; some are very tall 
and slender, with several ornamented circles and mouldings in 
elegant relief. The number of these ntensils is sometimes extra- 
vagantly great ; as many as a dozen at a time may be seen in a 
row by one fireside, though coffee-making requires only three at 
most. Five or six are considered to be the thing ; but when 
doubled it indicates the riches and munificence of the owner, 
by implying the frequency of his guests and the large amount 
of coffee that he is in consequence obliged to have made for 
them. Behind sits a slave, whose name is generally a diminu- 
tive, in token of affection ; his occupation is to make and pour 
out the coffee. On entering, it is proper to say 'Bismillah,' 
i. e., ' in the name of God ; ' not to do so would be looked on 
as a bad augury alike for him who enters and for those within. 

"The guest then goes to the master of the house, each repeats 
once more his greetings, followed by set phrases of polite in- 
quiry. 

" Taking the honored post by the fireplace, an apologetical 
salutation is given to the slave on the one side and to his nearest 
neighbor on the other. The best cusbjona and newest-looking 
eai-pets have been prepared. Shoes or sandals are slipped off 
on the sand just before reaching the carpet; the riding-etick or 
wand, the inseparable companion of every true Arab, is to be 
retained in the hand, and will serve for playing with during the 
pauses of conversation. 'Without delay the slave begins the 
preparations for coffee, placing the largest of the coffee-pots, 
about two-thirds full of clear water, close by the edge of the 
glowing coal-pit, that its contents may become warm while 
other operations are in progress. Taking a dirty knotted rag 
out of a niche in the wall close by, and having untied it, he 
empties out a few handfuls of unroasted coffee, which are 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 69 

placed on a little trencher of platted grass, -when all blackened 
grains or other non-homologous Bnhetances are picked out. 
After much cleansing and shaking the grains are poured into 
a lai'ge open iron ladle, which is placed over the mouth of the 
funnel, stirring them carefully round and round till they 
crackle, redden, and smoke a little, but withdrawing them 
from the heat long before they turn black or chan-ed ; after 
which they are put to cool a moment on the grass platter. 
Drawing between his trouserless legs a large stone mortar, with 
a pit large enough to admit the stone pestle, and pouring in 
the half-roasted berries, he proceeds to pound them with won- 
derful dexterity, never missing a blow, til! the beans are 
smashed, but not reduced to powder. After these operations, 
which are performed with much seriousness and deliberation, 
a smaller coffee-pot is taken in hand, which he fills more than 
half witli hot water from the larger vessel, and, shaking the 
pounded coffee into it, sets it on the fire to boil, occasionally 
stirring it with a small stick as the water rises, to check ebul- 
lition and prevent overflowing. Nor is the boiling stage to 
be long or vehement ; on the contrary, it should be as light 
as possible. In the interim he takes out of another rag-knot 
a few aromatic seeds called heyl, an Indian product, or a 
little saffron, and, after slightly pounding these ingredients, 
throws them into the simmering coffee to improve its flavor, 
for such an additional spicing is held indispensable in Arabia. 
Sugar would be a totally unheard-of profanation. Last of all, 
he strains off the liquor through some fibres of the inner palm- 
bark, placed for that purpt^e in the jng-spout, and gets ready 
the tray of delicate parti-colored grass, and the small coffee- 
cups ready for pouring out. All the prehminaries have taken 
np a good half-hour. Meantime the host and his friends have 
become engaged in active conversation, while the silver deco- 
rated swords proclaim the importance of the family who are 



>y Go Ogle 



70 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

aa&einbleil; presently a large wooden towl full of dates, with a 
cup of melted butter in the midst of the heap, is presented; the 
host says, ' Semmoo,' literally, ' pronounce the name,' of God 
understood ; this means, ' Set to work at it.' Every one picks 
out a date or two from the juicy mass, dips them into the but- 
ter, and thns goes on eating till he has had enough. The slave 
now begins his round, tlie coffee-pot in one hand, the tray and 
cups on the other. The first pouring out he must drink him- 
self, by way of a practical assurance that there is no ' death in 
the pot ; ' the guests are next served, beginning with those next 
the honorable fireside ; the master of the house receives his 
cup last of all. To refuse would be a positive and unpardon- 
able insult ; but one has not much to swallow at a tijne, for the 
coffee-cups, or 'finjans,' are ahout the size of a large egg-shell 
at most, and are never more than half filled. "This is considered 
essential to good-breeding, and a briminer would here imply 
exactly the reverse of what it does in Europe. 

'■ Be this as it may, ' Fill the cup for your enemy ' is an adage 
common to all Arabs. The beverage itself is singularly aroma- 
tic and refreshing, a real tonic. When the slave presents you 
with a cup, he never fails to accompany it with a ' Semm,' ■' Say 
the name of God,' nor must yon take it without answering 
' Bismillah.' 

" When all have been thus sei-ved, a second round is poured 
out, but in inverse order, for the host this time drinks first and 
the guests last. On special occasions, a firet reception for in- 
stance, the ruddy liquor is a third time handed round ; nay, a 
fourth cup is sometimes added. But all these put together do 
not come up to one-fourth of what a European imbibes in a 
single draught at breakfast." 

With regard to the making of coffee, there is no doubt that 
the Turkish method of pounding the coffee in a mortar ia 
much superior to grinding it in a mill, as is nsual with us. 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEa 71 

The fondness for coffee in Turkey is shown by tlie constant 
use of the beverage on all occasions, and its exhilarating qual- 
ities are nowhere more highly appreciated. 

The great luxnry of the Turkish bath^ — now no longer an ex- 
clusive Oriental custom, since its general introduction in this 
country and Europe — has one feature in the Oi-ient that has not 
elsewhere been fuUy introduced. There the bather, after the 
fatigues of the bath, is conducted- into a luxurious apartment, 
where comfortable divans and soft pillows invite him to tarry, 
and enjoy the " rest after toil," ihedoloefar niente, the " sweet 
do nothing." Presently attendants enter bearing fragrant cof- 
fee served in delicate little china cups, which further adds 
to tile rest and repose from all care, and at once fills the recip- 
ient with delight. We need biit to introduce this Eastern cus- 
tom after bathing, for cofEee, as already stated, is a stimulant 
which, unlike wine, does not enervate or excite the system. 

The Turks drink their coffee very hot and strong, and without 
sugar. They occasionally use spices with it, such as bruised 
clov^, or aniseed, or a drop of the essence of amber. But after 
either method, the process recommended by M. Soyer may be 
advantageously adopted ; namely, " Put two ounces of ground 
cofEee into a stew-pan, which set upon the fire, stirring the 
coffee round with a epoon until quite hot, then pour over a pint 
of boiling water; cover over clraely for five minutes, pass it 
through a cloth, warm again, and serve." The chemist La- 
place explained to Kapoleon the I'esults of various methods of 
manipulation. " How is it, sir," said the Emperor, " that a glass 
of water in which I melt a lump of sugar always appears to me 
to be superior in taste to one in which I put the same quantity 
of powdered sugar?" — "Sire," said the sage, "there exist 
three substances whose elements are precisely the same ; name- 
ly, sugar, gum, and starch. They only differ under certain 
conditions, the secret of which Nature has reserved to herself ; " 



>y Go Ogle 



72 METHODS OP MiEIHG COFFEE. 

and I believe that it is possible that, by the coUieion caused by 
the pestle, some of the portions of the sugar pass into the con- 
dition of gum or starch, and thence arises the result which has 
been observed. 

In preparing the berry, connoisseurs in coffee will, before 
roasting, wash the grains and dry them on a pan, placed near 
the fire or in a cool oven. While roasting they will stir 
them constantly, that all may be equally brown. Some persons 
think the aroma improved when the heat is not greater than ia 
sufficient to impart a light brown color to the bean; others 
prefer the coffee roasted to a dark brown ; in adopting the 
latter, care should be used to avoid burning it. To produce the 
beverage in perfection, it is necessary to employ the best 
materials in its preparation,-^esA roasted and fresh ground. 
With respect to quantity, at least one ounce of coffee should be 
used to make three ordinary-sized cupfuls. The coffee-pot should 
be heated before putting in the coffee, which heating may be done 
by means of a little boiling water. "When so prepared, the 
boiling water should be poured over the ground cofEee, and not, 
as is commonly done, put in first. When a percolator is not 
used, the liquor should be well stirred up several times before 
finally covering it up to settle for use. 

Liebig, after describing its properties and the various 
methods of preparing the beverage, recommends the follow- 
ing process, which seems among the best hitherto proposed ; 
namely, that three-fourths of the coffee to be used be boiled, 
and the other fourth infused, the results being mixed. By this 
means both strength and flavor are insured. To preserve the 
flavor of the ground coffee he recommends that the powder 
should be wetted with a syrup of sugar, and then covered with 
powdered sugar. The volatile parts of the coffee are thus pre- 
vented from escaping. When cofEee has been roasted and is 
not to be immediately used, it should be placed in a dry situa- 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 73 

tion, and excluded from the atmosphere aa soou as jxfflsible, 
eince it absorbs moistm'e from the air by its hygrometric power, 
aad loses its flavor by keeping. To clarify coffee, the French 
sometimes sprinkle on the surface of the coffee half a cup of 
cold water, which, from its greater gravity, descends and carries 
the sediment with it. 

The French, who are celebrated for their coffee-making, use 
various kinds in combination, such as the following : Java, 
Mocha, Eio, and Maracaibo. These coffees are so delicately and 
in such due proportions mixed, as to produce a bouquet of aro- 
matic flavors. They sometimes add a little liqueur, to flatter 
an epicurean palate. 

C'af^-au-lmt~~thAt is, three parts of milk to one of coffee — is, 
according to Dr. Doran, "the proper thing for breakfast; but 
the addition of milk to that taken after dinner is a cruelty to 
the stomach." Voltaire's favorite beverage was " choca" — a 
mixture of coffee (with milk) and chocolate. Napoleon, it is 
said, was fond of this mixture. 

The " cafe noir " of the French is coffee made strong with 
water only, " Cafe-au4ait " must not be made by boiling coffee 
and milk together, aa milk is not proper to extract the essential 
properties of the coffee, and coffee must first be made as " caf^ 
noir," only stronger. As much of this coffee is poured into the 
cup as is required, and the cup is then filled up with boiled 
milk. Oaf^ d la Greme is made by adding boiled cream to 
strong clear coffee and heating them together. 

Oafi glace is made by adding one egg to every six cups of 
cafe noir. Sweeten, and put in cream, "When thoroughly 
mixed, place in a proper cooler surrounded with ice. It should 
be frozen to the consistency of rich thick cream, and, if properly 
made, will be found a delicious and refreshing draught. 

One of the most universal methods of making coffee is to put 
the fresh-ground coffee into a coffee-pot with a sufficient quan- 



>y Go Ogle 



Y4 METHODS OF MAKINa COFFEE. 

titj of water, whicb is set on the fire until it Ijoils, and the cof- 
fee, if allowed time, will settle of itself — a mode adapted to 
early risers and those in no hurry for breakfast. 

" If you want to improve your understanding, drink coffee," 
said Sydney Smith. Sir James Mackintosh professes that he 
believed the difference between one man and another was pro- 
duced by the quantity of coffee he drank 1 * 

Pope was among confirmed coffee-drinkers ; often callmg up 
his servant in the night to prepare a cup of it for him. It was 
the custom in his day to grind and prepare it upon the table, of 
which practice he gives us the following details in verse : — 

" For lo I the board with cup and epoons ia crowned, 
The berries oraokle, and the mill turns round; 
On shining' altars of Japan they raise 
The sCyer lamp ; the fiery spirits blaie. 
From silver spouts the grateful liquors glide, 
While China's earth receives tlie smoting tide. 
At ODce they gratify their sense and taste, 
And frequent cnps prolong the rich repast. 
Coffee ! — which makea the politician wise, 
And see thiongh all things with his half -shut eyes ! " 

Taken in moderation, especially if combined with sugar and 
milk, coffee is unquestionably the most wholesome beverage 
known. In a medical point of view, it has been regarded as a 
cerebral stimulant and anti-soporific, and an antidote to opinm. 
As a medicine, it sho^ild be strong, and taken lukewarm. 

Coffee, when taken early in the morning before rising, some- 
times alleviates an attack of asthma or coughing, and thus 
proves of great ser^'iee to many sufferers. Still it must not be 
forgotten that it is a stimulant, and if taken too strong, or in 
too great quantities, may give rise to nervous complaints ; and 
although for a time an aid to digestion, yet, if too freely in- 
dulged in, it wiU weaken the sensibility of the stomach and 

• The conyeTse of the proposition would bear rather hard upon those persona 
whose constitutional proclivities prevent their use of the beverage altogether. 



ijGooglc 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 75 

derange its functions. Diluents of any kind in large quantities 
relax the coats of that organ, and impair its efficiency. Notwith- 
standing all objections alleged against tlie use of this favorite 
exotic, it is constantly and extensively growing in public esteem 
as an exhilarating drink, pcsseasing the good qualities of wine 
without any of its bad consequences. It is indeed a sign of the 
good time coming, that there have been opened in meet of the 
great cities of Europe such numerous coifee-houses, where, in- 
stead of the dram-shop, operatives may regale themselves with-' 
out becoming inebriates. Even in its early days, an old writer 
of the seventeenth century claimed for the beverage this virtue, 
when he thus quaintly descants upon its various claims : 
" Surely it must needs be salutiferous, because so many sagacious 
and the wittiest sort of nations use it so much. But besides the 
exsiceant quality, it tends to dry up the crudities of the stomach, 
as also to comfort the brain, to fortitie the sight with its steeme, 
and 'tis found already that this coffee-drink has caused a greater 
sobriety among the nations. For whereas formerly apprentices 
and clerks, with others, used to take their morning's draught in 
ale, beer, or wine, which by the dizziness they cause in the 
brain, make many uuiit for businesse, they use now to play the 
good-fellowes in this wakefull and ci\ill driuke," 

The roasting of coffee in the best manner requires great 
nicety, since much of the quality of the beverage depends upon 
the operation. It is usually roasted in a hollow cylinder, made 
of perforated sheet iron, which is kept turning over a brisk fire, 
to prevent any part from being More heated than another, and 
when the coffee has assumed a deep cinnamon color, and an 
oily appearance, and the peeuHar fragrance of roasted coffee 
is perceived to be sufficiently strong, it should be taken from 
the fire, well shaken, and suffered to cool. Not more than half 
a pound of coffee should he roasted at once for domestic use ; 
for if the quantity is greater, it becomes impossible to regulate 



>y Go Ogle 



76 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

the heat in sucli a manner ae to secure a good result. If tlie 
heat be bo violent as to burn any part, tbe whole will be materi- 
ally injured. The coffee-roaster should never be filled above 
one-third ; for by roasting, the bulk of coffee is nearly doubled, 
and sufficient space ought to remain to allow of turning the 
coffee readily, that every part may be equally exposed to the heat. 

Li Italy they roast coffee in smaU quantities, very frequently 
in one of the thin flasks of glass used for oil, which answer ex- 
tremely well if the roasting is performed over a charcoal fire, 
and the coffee shaken and turned often. The non-conducting 
power of the glass is thought to give this material an advantage 
over metal, as being less liable to bum ; added to which, the 
progress of the roasting can be better watched. One of these 
flasks will roast somewhat less than a quarter of a pound at a 
time; and it is, perhaps, worth while mentioning that this 
mode is often found usef al to the traveller. 

The grinding of coffee is performed by iron mills. A small 
portable mill is commonly used, but it is insuflicient for the 
purposes of a large household, as it holds but a comparatively 
small quantity. When larger quantities are required in a 
family, a coffee-mill of a larger kind, requiring less labor, 
is fixed against" the wall ; the construction of the mill is 
about the same in both instances, and being familiar to most 
persons, need not be described. This is, indeed, an indispen- 
sable machine in domestic economy, as the goodness of the cof- 
fee depends much upon its being fresii-ground. Coffee ought 
to be ground sufficiently fine, in order that the water may be 
enabled to penetrate to the centre of the particles and extract 
those parts upon which the valuable qualities of the beverage 
depend. When coffee is very highly roasted,- so as to develop 
the greatest quantity of bitter aroma without burning, it is ren- 
dered more difficult to grind, for it then acquires an oily siu'face, 
which causes the kernels to slip over each other, and hence they 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OP MAKING COFFEE. 77 

are not caught so readily by the teeth of the mill ; but the 
powder, when obtained, is finer than if the coffee had been less 
roasted, because it is rendered more friable. 

I^^asted coffee, as before stated, loses much of its flavor 
by exposure to the air; on the other hand, while raw 
it not only does not lose its flavor, but actually improve by 
keeping. That the fine aromatic flavor of good coffee, which 
is one of its chief recommendations, depends upon some prin- 
ciple that is extremely volatile, a little observation will render 
evident. If a cup of the best coffee be placed upon a table 
boiling hot, it will fill the room with its fragrance ; but the 
coffee, when warmed again after being cold, will be found to- 
have lost most of its flavor. The fragrance diffused through the 
air is a sure indication in what manner it was dissipated ; and 
therefore it is evident that in preparing coffee every possible 
endeavor should be made to preserve this precious part of the 
beverage. To have coffee in perfection, it should be roasted 
and ground just before it is to be used, and more should not be 
ground at a time than is wanted for immediate use ; or if it be 
necessary to grind more, it should be kept close from the air. 
The best method of preparing a beverage from coffee, or, as it 
is termed, maiking coffee, is a subject that has received a good 
deal of attention. 

To clear coffee rapidly, a variety of substances are used ; 
namely, white of eg^, isinglass, skins of eels or soles, hartshorn 
shavings, etc., for it is found that coffee not cleared has always 
an unpleasant bitter taste. In order that the clearing sub- 
stances may produce their full effect, they should be dissolved 
before mixing with the coffee. In this manner, with good mate- 
rials in sufficient quantity, and proper care, excellent coffee may 
be made, and most of the valuable properties of the coffee ex- 
tracted. 

The diificulty of mating and clearing coffee has led to a 



>y Go Ogle 



78 METHODS OF MAEINa COFFEE. 

great variety of inventions, one of the moat noted being Count 
Unmford's percolator, in which the ground coffee is compressed 
between two metallic diaphragms, ao that the boiling water 
shall percolate slowly through the mass. There is also the 
Foimtain cofBee-maker, in which a body of steam, passing up- 
wards through the body of ground coffee, carries over the infu- 
sion, which collects in a chamber. 

. Another apparatus is the pneumatic filter, by which the per- 
colation of the coffee is expedited and rendered more complete. 

Having thus shown the various methods and principles by 
which coffee ia prepared in different countries, it may not be in- 
appropriate to add that Yankee ingenuity has not been idle ia 
trying to solve the problem as to how this beverage can best be 
made. There have been about one hundred and seventy-five 
patents granted by the United States Patent Office for coffee- 
pots alone, embracing every possible contrivance by which the 
bean can be prepared as a beverage ; and ' while so many are 
seeking this " arcanum," we find some of the devices both curious 
and ingenious. There is a patent granted for placing a furnace 
in the coffee-pot ; another with curious strainers and attach- 
ments to receive the grounds ; again another with arrange- 
mente to prevent lateral tipping when tilting the coffee-pot; 
patents for strainers connected with springs attached to the noz- 
zle; others with hot-water jackets, and some with condensers 
in the lids to catch the aroma ; some to bold both coffee and 
t«a, to be made at the same time in different compartments ; 
— and so the Kst could be continued at length, showing the 
claims of tlie many inventive geniuses who have given their 
attention to this subject. 

We will conclude by referring to one of the latest patents, 
which, if judged from its success and the praises it has received 
from those who have used it, is destined to become the g 
economizer and only true method of preparing coffee. Its < 



>y Go Ogle 



METHODS OP MAKIHG CorFEE. T9 

struction ifl very Bimple, consisting of an outer ehell or reser- 
voir enclosing a plain coffee-pot, containing the coffee with 
the requii-ed quantity of cold water. This is placed over a pan 
or receiver which boils water and generates steam. The steam 
envelopes and completely surrounds the inner pot containing 
the coffee and water, which gradually becomes heated, but riever 
boils, thus perfectly distilling the coffee. By this process the 
coffee does not become black, bitter, or stale, and can be served 
at any time, with all the rieli, oily, and fragrant aroma of the 
bean. As the inner pot is air-tight, coffee made in tins way is 
stronger and incomparably superior in flavor to that produced 
by any other method. N^othing is lost in evaporation nor at- 
m,ospheric action ; all the fine aroma and food properties are 
held in solution, and the coffee ia extracted by the action of 
steam surrounding every pai"t of the vessel containing the fluid. 
The bitter taste other methods produce and the oxidation of 
the acids are avoided, and the coffee always remains palatable 
and agreeable to the taste. This process requires no substance 
of any kind to clear the coffee ; the grounds settle at the bottom 
by their own gravity, after the rich properties of the coffee are 
fully distilled. It is perfectly pure, and is poured from the 
coffee-pot as clear as amber, and resembling wine. 

The infusion ia superior as a beverage to that made by any 
other method yet discovered, besides consuming less coffee ; and 
as it ia a simple and economical utensil, coming within the 
means of all who use coffee, it has the further advantage of hav- 
ing no complicated mechanism likely to get out of order, and 
difficult to keep clean. If the advantages really existing in the 
last-mentioned system are once understood, the benefits reaped 
by all the consumers of pure coffee throughout the world will 
more than realize the most sanguine hopes of philanthropy in 
extending the universal use of the beverage so palatable to the 
rich, so healthful and invigorating to the laboring classes. 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AKD ADULTEEATIONS. 



Coffee has been analyzed by Tarious chemists, but the results 
of their analyses are far from being uniform. Eaw coffee con- 
tains a yellowish-brown transparent extract, to which the name 
of caffeine has been given, and which constitutes the eharact«rie- 
tie portion of coffee. Coffee also contains a resinous matter, an 
oil, or fatty substance, an aromatic principle, and some tannin and 
gallic acid. Six pounds of coffee give ninety grains of caffeine, 
a proximate principle remarkable for containing 21.54 per cent, 
of nitrogen, which is a latter quantity than is found in most 
other vegetables ; it is a crystallizable salt, of a bitter taste, pro- 
ducing an exliilarating effect when taken in four or five grains, 
such as is felt when good coffee is drunk. It was first discovered 
by Kunge in 1820, and it is considered by Liebig as nearly iden- 
tical, if not quite so, with theine, a principle existing in tea. 

Eaw coffee contains about five per cent, of an astringent acid, 
— the caffeine, or coffee tonic, which does not blacken a solu- 
tion of iron, as the infusion of tea does, but renders it green, 
and does not precipitate solutions of gelatine. This acid is 
changed to some extent during the roasting, but still retains a 
portion of ita' astringent properties, and contributes in some de- 
gree to the effects which the infusion of coffee produces upon 



But the coffee-bean contains about thirteen per cent, of nutri- 
tious gluten, which, as in the case of tea, is very sparingly dis- 
solved by boiling water, and is usually thrown away in the 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AST) ADULTERATIONS OP COFFEE. 81 

insoluble dregs of the coffee. Among some of the Eastern 
nations the custom prevails of drinking the grounds along with 
the infusion of the coffee ; in these cases the full benefit is ob- 
tained from all the positively nutritive matter which the roasted 
coffee contains. 

It has been found that 1,000 grains of the wood, leaves, and 
twiga of the coffee-tree yielded 33 grains of ashes, or 3,300 per 
cent. The ashes consist of potass, lime, alumina, and iron in 
the state of carbonates, sulphates, muriates, and phosphates, 
and a small portion of silica. According to Liebig's classifica- 
tion of plants, the coffee-tree falls under the description of 
those noted for their preponderance of lime. Thus the pro- 
portions in the coffee-tree are — 

Lime ealta 77 

Potass salte 20 

Silica 3 

100 
Coffee contains a considerable quantity of fixed oil and an 
astringent acid allied to the tannic. The following is the aver- 
age composition of raw coffee : — 

Woody matter 34 

Water 13 

Fa% matter ' 13 

Gnm, sngar, and Oaffeio acid 18 

Caffeine 2 

Aaotized matter analogous to legumin 13 

Saline matter, essential oils, etc 8 

100 
It may be interesting to mention among the curiosities of 
chemistry, that a most magnificent purple dye can be prepared 
fi'om the alkaloid of coffee. It is analogous to the dye which 
produced the famous Tyrian purple, unsurpassed for its per- 
fection and permanence of tint. 



>y Go Ogle 



83 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OP COPPEE. 

A higher aroma would make the inferior varieties of Ceylon, 
Jamaica; and Brazilian coffees nearly equal in value to the finest 
Javas ; and if the oil could he bought for the purpoae of im- 
parting this flavor, it would be worth in the market as much as 
five hundred dollars an ounce. How it comes — by what slow 
chemical change within the bean, that causes coffee of the most 
inferior quality eo to ripen by keeping as to become ec^ual to 
Mocha — we do not yet know. 

Coffee ie supposed to owe its refreshing character to this 
peculiar chemical principle, Caffsme. This substance belongs 
to the class of azotized basic bodies, and from its presence in 
two substances eo dissimilar as tea and coffee, both of which 
are in such general use aU over the world, it may be supposed 
to be of no small importance to our animal economy, Liebig 
has shown that the composition of caffeine is closely related 
to that of various animal products, and that there is reason 
to believe that it may assist in the secretion of bile. A pound 
of cofl^ee yields by sublimation, on an average, about 15 grains 
of caffeine. It may also be obtained from an infusion of 
raw coffee, when certain impurities have been removed by 
subacetate of lead, and the excess of lead by sulphuretted 
hydrogen. It forms white silky crystals, which are sparingly 
soluble in cold water. It has a mild, bitter taste. The pe- 
culiarly refreshing and stimulating properties of coffee ai'e 
developed in the roasting. It has been tested that coffee 
roasted to a pale brown color loses 13.3 per cent.; to a 
chestnut bro-\vii, 18.5 per cent.; and to a black, 23.7 per cent. 

The chemical changes which heat produces in coffee, accord- 
ing to recent authorities, may thus be epitomize^ : the brown 
hitter substance and the aromatic principle are produced by the 
decomposition of that part of the coffee-bean which is soluble 
in water; and a large part of the caffeine disappears during 
the roasting. It is said that this (caffeine) is carried away with 



>y Go Ogle 



AJTALTSIS AKD ADULTERATIONS OP COFFEE. 83 

the volatile products generated in the operation. By roasting 
coffee in an apparatus wMch allows of the recovery of all the 
volatile products, it has been ascertained that if it be car- 
ried away with the volatile products, it can only be in such 
small quantity as to be inappreciable by weight, and cannot ex- 
plain the considerable loss which takes place during roasting, 
carefully performed. The loss is experimentally foimd to 
equal nearly one-half of the caffeine originally existing in the 
coffee. M. "\Yurtz has demonstrated that the lost caffeine has 
been transformed into a volatile base methylamine, or methyl- 
ammonia (C, Hj N), The following are the facts which prove 
the change of caffeine into methylamine during coffee-roasting. 
"If pure caffeine be submitted to the action of heat, and the 
vapor be carried through a tube heated to about 300° Centi- 
grade (about the heat which is necessary for roasting), and filled 
with fragments of pumice-stone, which delay the passage of 
the vaporized matters, only a feeble decomposition occurs ; the 
greater part remains unchanged, and the little that is decom- 
posed gives no characteristic product except cyanogen. This 
experiment tends to prove that it is not the caffeine which 
furnishes the volatile alkaloid existing in roasted coffee. But a 
very different result is obtained if, instead of acting on free 
caffeine, we experiment on caffeine in analogous circumstances 
to those in which it exists in green coffee. It is easy to extract 
the alkaloid from roasted coffee by distilling the extract of cof- 
fee, made with cold water, with a weak base, such as lime. 
The addition of this alkali to an infusion of coffee immediately 
liberates the methylamine, the special ammoniacal odor of 
which is readily perceptible." 

In tea the proportion of volatile oil amounts to about one 
pound in a hundred of the dried leaf, but in roasted coffee it 
rarely amounts to more than one in fifty thousand I And yet 
on the different proportions of this oil which they severally 



>y Go Ogle 



84 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

contain, the ai'oma and the consequent estimation in the market 
of the different varieties of coffee in a gi'eat measure depend. 

The action of coffee on the human system is due chiefly to 
the empyreumatic oil, and consequently is greatest when roast- 
ed ; but its extractive and also nitrogenous principle, caffeine, 
must exert considerable influence upon the organs of digestion. 
" Coffee acts powerfully and pecuharly on the ganghonic system 
of nerv^ and their ramifications, and all the organs which are 
supplied by them. It elevates the vitality of these nerves, and 
quickens all their actions. The brain is also, in a similar man- 
ner, acted upon by it ; and hence the increased sensibility and 
energy of that organ during the use of coffee, and the removal 
of all sense of fatigue and disposition to sleep. Upon this de- 
pends, in addition to its local influence upon the organs of diges- 
tion, the utility of coffee in counteracting the effects of narcotic 
poisons, such as opium or belladonna ; and the favor it has 
found among literarj' persons, from enabhng them to carry on 
their studies through the midnight hours without feeling op- 
pressed by sleepiness. It also excites the vascular system, and 
renders more powerful the contractions of all the muscles, both 
voluntary and involuntary." Its physiological effects upon 
the system, as far as they have been investigated, appear to be, 
that while it makes the brain more active, it soothes the body 
generally, makes the change and waste of matter slower and 
the demand for food consequently less. According to a recent 
authority, over seventeen hundred separate works have been 
published on that prevalent malady — indigestion— with specifics 
for its cure ; notwithstanding this formidable array of specifics 
and prescriptions, we are backed by professional authority 
when we venture to suggest yet one more, to wit — a cup of 
good coffee, without the admixture of either milk or sugar. It 
is occasionally useful in relieving headache, especially the form 
called nervous. It has also been employed as a febrifuge in 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 85 

intermittents, as a stomachic in some forms of dyspepsia, and as 
a stimulant to the cerebro-spinal syetem in some nervous die- 
orders. Flayer, Percival, and others have used it in epaemodie 
asthma ; and Laennec eays : " I have myself seen several cases in 
■which coffee waa really useful. The immoderate use of coffee, 
on the other hand, is said to produce nervous symptoms, such 
as anxiety, tremor, disordered vision, palpitation, and feverish- 
ness." "VVe find the following remarks regarding the chemical 
properties of caffeine : " Mulder gave a grain of it to a rabbit ; 
the animal ate but little the next day, and aborted the day after. 
Liebig has suggested that it probably contributes to the forma- 
tion of taurine, the nitrogenized constituent of bile. Accord- 
ing to Lehmann, caffeine in doses of from two to ten grains 
causes violent excitement of the vascular and nervous systems, 
palpitations of the heart, and often intermission of pulse, sleep- 
lessness, and delirium." 

Dr. Hassall thus describes the structure of the eoffee-seed : 
" Two parts are to be discriminated in the coffee-berry, and the 
testa or investment by which it is surrounded. The berry, 
previous to roasting, and even after it has been soalied for a 
long time in water, is hard and tough, in which respect it dif- 
fers from all those substances which enter into the adulteration 
of coffee, and which become softened by immersion in cold 
water. The hardness is even retained subsequently to the char- 
ring, and is so great, that by this character alone the fragments 
of the ground and roasted coffee-berry may be readily distin- 
d from those of chiccory. It consists of an assemblage of 
r cells of an angular form, which adhere so firmly to- 
gether that they break up into pieces rather than separate into 
distinct and perfect cells. The cavities of the cells include, 
in tlie form of little drops, a considerable quantity of aromatic 
volatile oil, on the presence of which the fragrance, and many 
of the active principles of the berry mainly depend. The testa, 



>y Go Ogle 



86 ANALYSIS Airo ADtTLTBBATIONS OP COFFEE. 

or investing membrane, presents a structure very different from 
that of tlie BuTjstance of the berry itself, and when once seen it 
cannot be confounded with any other tissue which has yet been 
observed entering into the adulteration of coffee; it is made up 
principally of elongated and adherent cells, forming a single 
layer, and having oblique markings upon their sarfaces ; these 
cells rest upon another thin membrane which presents an indis- 
tinct fibrous structure." 

The seeds, improperly called berries, of Arabia or Mocha 
coffee are small, of a dark yellow color ; those of Java and the 
East Indies are larger, and of a paler yellow; while those of 
the "West Indies and Brazil possess a bluish or greenish- 
gray tint. The dried fruits or berries are rarely imported; 
occasionally the seeds contained in their endocarp or husks, 
however, are met with in commerce. 

The practice of adulterating food originates -with dishonest 
men, who take this means of underselling their honest neigh- 
bors in the same business ; and it is to the interest of all who 
prize integrity and fair dealing, to lend their aid in suppress- 
ing frauds which so generally affect the public health. Foreign 
substances, such as we describe, are mixed with coffee to in- 
crease the weight and hulk and reduce the cost, and every 
pound is a direct damage to consumers, who fail to realize the 
healthful effects of pure coffee. 

There are few articles of consumption which have been 
subjected to more extensive adulteration than coffee. The 
most prevalent adultefation is that of chiccory; and it has 
frequently been urged in extenuation of the fraud that chiccory 
improves the flavor of coffee ; but this opinion is not held by 
most chemists. Persons who have had their taste vitiated 
by using the two in combination, may even prefer it to pnre 
coffee ; but, as Dr. Hassall remarks, " had they the opportunity 
of partaking of well-prepared and unadulterated coffee, they 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 87 

would not be long before they acknowledged the infinite 
BuperiorJty of the genuine beverage even as a matter 'of taate." 

If chiceory were an improvement when mixed with coffee, it 
ought to be good by itself ; but any one who has tasted the bit- 
ter, muddy, and nauseating infusion of this root is aware that 
only when mixed and partially disgnised with coffee can it be 
drunk at all ; between the two articles there is no analogy what- 
ever; besides, chiceory has properties of its own which are de- 
cidedly injurious ; when taken only in moderate quantities 
chiceory is not at first injurious to health, but by its prolonged 
and frequent use it produces heartburn, cramps, loss of appe- 
tite, acidity in the mouth, and cloudiness of the senses. It is 
the opinion of the eminent oculist. Professor Beer, of Vienna, 
that the continual use of chiceory seriously affects the nervous 
system, and gives rise to blindness, without any visible defect 
in the eyes except an immovable pupil. 

The ground coffee sold by the grocers is to a great extent 
adulterated. The principal substances used for this purpose 
are roasted chiceory and roasted beans, peas, and corn. This 
fraud may readily be detected as follows: — "A spoonful of 
pure coffee, placed gently on the surface of a glass of cold 
water, will float for some time, and scarcely color the liquid ; 
if it contMns chiceory, it will rapidly absorb the water, and, 
sinking to the bottom of the glass, communicate a deep 
reddish-brown tint as it falls. Another method of applying 
this test is by expertly shaking a spoonful of the suspected 
coffee with a wine-glassful of cold water, and then placing the 
glass upon the table. If it is pure it will rise to the surface, 
and scarcely color the liquid ; but if chiceory is present it will 
sink to the bottom, and the water will be tinged of a deep red 
as before. lioasted com, beans, etc., may be detected by the 
cold decoction striking a blue color with tincture of iodine. 
Pure coffee is merely deepened a Uttle in color by this sub- 



>y Go Ogle 



88 ANALYSIS AND ADTTLTBIUTI0N9 OP COFFBK 

stance. Under the microscope, the presence of chiceory may be 
readily detected by the size, form, and ready separation of the 
cella of the cellular tissue, and by the presence and abundance 
of the pitted tissue or dotted duets, aud vascular tissue or 
spiral vessels. Eoasted com, and other amylaceous substances, 
may also be detected in the same way, by the peculiar size and 
character of their starch-grains." 

Chiccory is a wild endive, which is now extensively cultivated 
in Germany, Trance, Belgium, and some parts of England and 
the United States. Even chiccory itself is sometimes adultera- 
ted ; as we learn from Johnston, who says : " The coffee-dealer 
adulterates his coffee with chiccory, to increase his profits ; the 
chiecory-maker adulterates his chiccory with Venetian red, to 
please the eye of the coffee-dealer ; and, lastly, the Venetian 
red manufacturer grinds up his color with brick-dust, that by 
his greater cheapness, and the variety of shades he offers, he 
may secure the patronage of the trade in chiccory ! " After 
this little ea>pose, who will not be disposed to prize a c/ttor- 
ranteed cup of pure coffee ? Pure coffee, indeed, is a rarity. 
The so-called "Coffee extract" is almost universally found 
to be nothing but caramel — burnt sugar mixed with chiccory 
and a little Kio coffee : and this fabrication is the coffee one 
meets with usually on board steamboats or at railroad stations. 
The Germans use acorns ground up for coffee, and do not 
object to the drink. The roasted seeds of the water-irie are 
said to approach very closely in flavor to coffee itself. Sub- 
stances mixed with coffee, or substitutes for the berry 
altogether, have been tried with various degrees of success. 
Eoasted aeoma, when ground, have been made to pass for it. 
The infusion of the lupin does duty for it among the peasantry 
of rianders ; also that of roasted rye, one of the nearest 
counterfeits of coffee ; in the United States another adultera- 
tion is dandelion, which possesses also a sopoi-ific nature. 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS or COFFEE, 89 

There are other sabstitutes for coffee besides roasted seeds of 
the water-iris : the ebick-pea, beans, rj'e and other grains, nuts, 
ahnonds, and even wheaten bread, the dried and roasted roots 
of the turnip, carrot, and asparagus. Also, horse-beans roasted 
with a little honey or sugar ; the nut of the sassafras-tree, or 
the wood cut into chips ; beet-root, sliced and dried in a kiln 
or oven ; and many more ; all of which, however, possess little 
or none of the exhilarating or medicinal properties of real 
coffee. 

Some years ago, it was scarcely possible to procure a 
Bample of ground coffee that was not largely adulterated, 
no matter what tbe price paid for it; and in some instances 
the coffee, BO-ealled, consisted almost entirely of chiccory. 
In 1850, a firm in Liverpool actually took out a patent for 
moulding chiccory into the shape of berries ; they appear 
to have been induced to do so in consequence of the exis- 
tence of a Treasury minute, which did not allow the sale of 
chiccory mixed with coffee, without printing the fact on each 
package sold. It has been asserted that in France and other 
continental countries the use of chiccory is almost timversal. 
This statement Hassall regards as incorrect. He says, "We 
found that in all the good hotels in Trance and Germany the 
coffee served up was genuine, and did not contain a garticle of 
chiccory ; but that it was largely employed, either separately or 
mixed with coffee, by poor persons and amongst dom^tics, for 
the sake of economy, — chiccory costing less than half the price 
of coffee." The differences, chemical and physiolo^cal, which 
exist between the two articles are thus given : '"' Coffee is the 
seed of a plant, and it contains essential oil, or eaffeone, caffeic 
acid, and a peculiar principle termed caffeine ; each of these 
constituents possesses different and highly important properties, 
upon which the value of coffee maiidy depends. 

" Chiccory is the root of a plant belonging to the family of the 



>y Go Ogle 



90 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEK 

dandelions. It contains no essential oil, tannic acid, or alkaloid 
analogous to that of coffee. The chief constituents of which it 
is made up when roasted are a little gum, sugar partly-burned 
and reduced to caramel, coloring matter, and insoluble vege- 
table tissue." It ia evident, therefore, that by the admixture of 
chiccory with coffee, the active properties of the latter are 
reduced, since between the two articles there is no chemical 
analogy whatever. The same authority also refers to this 
subject of adulteration of coffee with another article named 
ooffina, maile and introduced, in 1851, into the English 
market. It was described as the seed of a Turkish plant, 
which was found to be highly nutritious. On subjecting it to 
examination i,vith the microscope, it was ascertained to consist 
of the roasted seeds of some leguminous plant, probably a 
lentil. Of this article no less than eighty tons were offered for 
sale by a Scotch house at about $60 per ton ; that is, at about 
3 cents per lb. " On this single transaction the revenue would 
be defrauded of no less a sum than $22,200 and the public of 
at least four times that amount, namely, $90,000. The impor- 
tation of about 100 tons of lupin -seed from Kgypt into 
Glasgow has led to the conjecture that this coffina was made 
from it — a conjecture, it is believed, correct." 

The adulteration of coffee in some cases alters and reduces 
so greatly the color and appearance of the article, as well as of 
the infusion made from it, that the use of coloring matters is fre- 
quently necessitated. One of these is burnt sugar, or sugar-house 
molasses, technically known in the trade as Black Jack. Another 
article, used sometimes to give increased color to adulterated 
ground coffee, ia Venetian red, or some other analogous ferrugi- 
nous earth. The adulterations of coffee are altogether indefen- 
sible ; and notwithstanding their frequent exposure, both at home 
and abroad, they stiU to a great extent continue to be practised. 
Some years since, roasted com, principally rye, was largely 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 91 

Bold, and employed to make a beverage whicli) by a fiction, was 
dignified bj, the name of coffee ; the cliief argunaent, inde- 
pendent of price, urged in favor of it was ita supposed 
nutritive properties. "Wben it is recollected, however, that 
the starch of roasted rye is in part reduced to the condition 
of charcoal, it will at once be perceived that its nutritive 
qualities cannot be very great, and that a single ■mouthful of 
wholesome hread contains more nourishment than a dozen cwps 
of a beverage made from roasted rye. The adulteration of 
coffee by substances so cheap, and, for the purpose to which 
they are applied, worthless as th^e, is a gross fraud, requiring 
emphatic condemnation, and, when ascertained to be practised, 
meriting exposure and punishment. The following tests for 
the detection of adulterations in coffee have been suggested; 
"The means to be r^orted to for this purpose are of three 
kinds: namely, certain physical characters and appearances 
presented by adulterated samples ; the microscope ; and 
chemistrj'. By the first, we ascertain in some cases the general 
feet whether the sample is adulterated or not; and by the 
others, especially by the microscope, we learn the nature of 
the particular adulteration or adulterations practised. The 
first means consist in noticing whether the sample in the mass 
cakes or coheres, whether it fioats in water or not, and tha color 
of the infusion. If the ground coffee cakes in the paper in 
which it is folded, or when pressed between the fingers, there is 
good reason for believing that it is adulterated, most probably 
with chiccory. If, when a few pinches of the suspected coffee 
are placed upon some water in a wine-glass, part floats and 
part sinks, there is reason to believe that it is adulterated— it 
may be either with chiccory, roasted com, or some other 
analogous substances. The coffee does not imbibe the water, 
but floats on the surface, while the other substances absorb the 
water, and gradually subside to the bottom to a greater or less 



>y Go Ogle 



92 AMALTBIS iOro ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

extent. Usually, however, part of the coffee subsides witli the 
chiccory, and a portion of the latter remains on tht^nrfaee with 
the coffee ; and after the lapse of a short time, in general, both 
coffee and chiecory faU to the bottom. Again, if the cold water 
to which a portion of ground coffee has been added quickly 
becomes deeply colored, it is an evidence of the presence of 
some roasted vegetable substance or burnt sugar; for when 
coffee is added to water, it becomes scarcely colored for some 
time. Lastly, if in a few grains of coffee spread out on a 
piece of glass, and moistened with a few drops of water, we are 
enabled to pick out, by means of a needle, minute pieces of 
substance of a soft consistence, the coffee is doubtless adulter- 
ated ; for the particles of the coffee-seed are hard and resisting, 
and do not become soft even after prolonged immersion in water. 
When, therefore, any sample cakes into a mass, quickly 
furnishes to cold water a deep-colored solution, or is found to 
contain, when moistened with water, soft particles like those of 
bread-crumbs, there can be no question as to the existence of 
adulteration. The general characters of genuine ground coffee 
are, therefore, the reverse of the above." 

By these general means, and without having recourse to 
science, the observer is often enabled to state whether any sam- 
ple of coffee is adulterated or not ; but, in order to determine 
the character of the adulteration practised, we must employ 
either the microscope or chemistry. In the case of coffee, by 
far the most important information is furnished by the micro- 
scope ; indeed, chemistry affords no certain means for the iden- 
tification of the majority of the vegetable substances employed 
in the adulteration of coffee, and, did it do so, it would hardly 
be required, since these may be so readily detected by the mi- 
croscope. It is kno^vTi that the adulteratior^ of coffee are 
always greatly increased by a high duty on the article, which 
makes the admixture of all farinaceous substances immensely 



>y Go Ogle 



ANALYSIS AND ABULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 93 

profitable to roasters and dealers in prepared coffee. It majj not 
be amiss to here state that one of the principal objects of this 
■work has been to call the attention of all consumers of coffee to 
the pernicious effects of adulterations. Coffee now being on 
the free list, and paying no duty when imported directly from 
places of growth, there should exist no excuse to continue the 
adulteration of so necessary an article of food. If a little 
attention is given by large dealers and direct distributers 
throughout the country, in generally informing consumers of 
the economy of using pure coffee, it is believed that the busi- 
ness in chiccory, roasted rye, beans, peas, damaged ship's bread, 
stale crackers, bran, and all other such substances used by some 
coffee-roasters, will be greatly diminished if not entirely abo- 
lished. All consumers who once become accustomed to the use 
of pure coffee will with reluctance use any substitute for the 
bei-ry, for none has ever been foiind to possess the advantages 
of taste, flavor, and the invigorating and healthful qualitiea of 
unadulterated coffee. 

Some twenty years ago, it was estimated that 18,000,000 
lbs. of vegetable matter of various kinds were sold annually 
under the deceptive name of coffee, while three-fourths of 
the amount consisted of chiccory. The various substances used 
in adulterating both chiccory and coffee, when sold in the 
powdered state, have been specifically pointed out as ingredienta 
prejudicial to health. 



>y Go Ogle 



ijGooglc 



TARIFFS OF VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 



UNITED STATES. 



1789— Section 1, Act July 1, 1780. 

Whereaa, it is neoeasarj tot the support of govermnent, for 
tlie disoliai^ of the debts of the Umted States, aad the 
encouragement and protection of immufaotuies, that duties 
he iMd on goods, wares, and merchandises imported front and 
after the £rst day of August next ensuing, there shall be 
laid on all Coffee imported into the United States from any 
foreign port or place, per pound BJ cts. 

183(»— By Act of Congress, May 20, 1830, Coffee placed upon the free 

list Free. 

1S61 — Extract of CofEee subjected to a duty by Act of Congress, IWaich 
3, 1861, section 24, under un-enumerated manufactured ar- 
ticles, to pay twenty per centum ad-vaJorem SOg 

1861— Eaw CofEee m the bean, by Act of Congreas, August 5, 1861, 

shall pay per lb i cts. 

1861 — Raw CofEee in the bean increased by Act of Congress, December 

34, 1861, Chapter n., shaUpayper a, gold 5 ota 

1863— All subatituteB (escept Chiocory), by Act of Congress, July 14, 
1863, section 8 : — on Acorn Coffee and Dandehon root, raw or 
prepared, and all other articles used or intended to be nsed as 
Coffee, or a substitute for Coffee, and not otherwise provided 
fpr, shall pay per lb, gold — 3 eta. 

1864 — Chicoory root, by Act of June 30, 1864, section H., raw, per lb, 

gold 4 eta. 

Chiccory ground, burnt, or prepared, per lb, gold 5 cts. 

1866— Section sixth of Act passed March 8, 1866. On all goods, wares, 
and merchandise of the growth or produc 



>y Go Ogle 



96 TABIFFS OF VARIOUS COUNTEIES. 

of the Cape of Good Hope, whan imported from places weat 
of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten. per oentum, ad- 
valoiem, in addition to the duties impoaed on an; such arti- 
cle when imported directly from the plaoe or places of their 

growth or production 10^ 

(Thia act took efiect April 1, 1866.) 

1870— By Act of Congress, July 14, 1870, aection 21, cofEee reduced 

after January I, 1870, to per tb, gold 3 ota. 

1873— Act of May 1, 1873, Coffee placed upon the free list from Jnly 1, 

1873 Free 

1871J — Act of June 6, 1873, Chiocory root, ground or unground, perHj. 1 ot. 
On and after October 1, 1872, on all goods, warea, and mer- 
chandise of the growth or produce of cooutrieB east of the 
Cape of Good Hope, when imported from plaoea weat of the 
Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centum, ad-valorem, in 
addition to the duties imposed on any euch article, if any, 
when imported directly from the place or plaoea of their 

growth or production 10^ 

Total consumption in 1871, 316,609,765 lbs. 





GREAT BRITAIN. 


NOIE.— The autita 


on oofleofl in forrign oomilria iave been redncod to TT. a gold, par ft 




ii^ witli Cbe United SMCeB i^venuQ laws in &rca sb (he Hair York Custom 



1660 — In this year we find the first mention of CofEee on the statute 
books of Great Britain, when a duty of four pence was laid 
upon every gallon of CofEee, made and sold, to be paid by the 

maker. Equal per gallon to 8 cts. 

1789— Coffee from British poEseasions 21 eta. 

CofEee from East Indies 49 eta. 

Total consumption, 930,141 lbs. 

1801 — Coffee from British possosaions. 35 cts. 

East Indies 624 cts. 

Total consumption, 750,000 Iba. 

1830 — 01 any Britjsh posseasion in America or Africa 24 cts. 

From any place within the limita ol the East India Co.'s charter 36 cts. 

AH others 60! cts. 

Total consumption, 7,000,000 lbs. 
1835— Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India Company's Charter, or of Sierra Leone 12 ota. 



>y Go Ogle 



TARIFFS OF VARIOUS COTJNTEIES. 97 

Imported from anj British poasession within the limits of the 
East India Company's Charter, not being tlie produce thereof. 18 cte. 

Imported from any other place withm tiose limiia 2S eta. 

pthecwise 30 ct«. 

Total consumption, 33,000,000 tbs. 
1810 — Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India charter or Sierra Leone 13| eta. 

Imported from any British pOBsession within the limits of tlie 

East India Charter, not beii^ the produce thereof 10 ots. 

Imported from any place within those limits 35| cts. 

Otherwise 31-iVcta 

Total oonanmption, 28,000,000 Iba. 

1857— Raw from bH parts Sets. 

Kiln-dried, roasted and ground 8 eta. 

Total consumption, 34,334,000 lbs. 

1871 — Same rates 6 eta. 

Estimated total consumption in 1871, 40,000,000 Iba. 
The above are some of the moat important chai^a in the tariff of Great 
Britain. 

FRANCE. 

1873 — Coffee, present duty per lb. 5^ cts. 

CoHeo in French vessela 4^ cts. 

aPAIN. 
Coffee the produce of, and ooming direct from any Spanish 

possession If ct. 

Coffee the produce of, and comii^ from foreign oountriea 2^- cts. 

Extract, Essence, and other compounds of Coffee, fifteen per 

cent ad-Talorem , 15$ 

PORTUGAL. 

Coffee in the shell Hot. 

Coffee cleaned 3^ cts. 

All imitations, including' ohiccory, also Coffee roasted or ground 3-,^ cts. 



Coffee from Cape Verde 1 ct. 

Coffee from Angola J ct. 

Coffee from St. Thome and Principe -i ct. 

ITALY. 
Coffee of all kinds 4 -f^; cte. 



>y Go Ogle 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 



TahU showing the Shipments of Coffee from the Ports' of 
Hio de Janei/ro arid Santos. 





=»^I. ^.™. 


.^0.. 


™w™. 


Prom 


Biofc jBJiell 


oien-s.... 


ns,t«4,9601ba. 


89,864,160 Ita. 


10,701,440 lbs. 


' 


" ■' 


ISTO-1.... 


a38,ioa,sso " 


157,110,080 ■■ 


10,880,000 ■' 






]SflB-70.., 


166,296,180 ■' 


lS6,391,BaO " 


11,347,800 •■ 


From 


Samoa 


18T1-3.... 


13,885,440 '■ 


43,630,080 '■ 








ICTO-I.... 


18,288,160 " 


60,178,060 ■' 








186B-70... 


13,384,400 ■■ 


64,777,600 " 





Table shovmig the yewrly a/oetage Prices of Vojj 
New York. 





isn. 


im 


,». 


Brnaj], Fair to Prime Cargow... 


IB.V^P™-"-- 

18-.%- ■• 
18-,%- " 


16,aj^- p^. lb. 


ctB. 


Marac«ilJO ana LsgnBjTn . , 









ijGooglc 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




> 






4^^^ 



\\\ 




.f*. VvfilV. 



f^ 







5&arbarl3 ColUfle Eibrara 



: ^'T^jt^. . , . , .\x*^AJcS*f^^ 




Digiled by Google 




» 




y^^^^ijA^ 







Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digifized by LjOOQ IC 




rJ^f^^JTO *CC;?f*f^'*'i ' "• ^^ir 'ff ^O^iriHrifTS -^ ^■'"^Tg ^ " 'ruat^ ■ 'tt.rf,'t,t/-> ■■^- fHf rffiCf rp T**K ^t!'rAr^i*<y •_>' ,t irt^iki^ -if f^^i 



f^uf ■*, «C. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



f 

/ 



I 

i 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 

I 



o 



COFFEE: 



ITS HISTORY, CULTIVATION, 



AND USES. 



\ 




<-i0C 










^^^^^l^MT 



^^^-^f^^^ 

^^^l--,^:^^;^^^^/^^^^:^:^^ ^^^^*^...<^^ 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



r 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



F 


^^^^^^ 


1 


COFFT^E: ■ 


W ITS 


HISTORY, OTJLTIVATION, H 


f 


AND USES. ^M 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



o 

COFFEE: 

ITS HISTORY, CULTIVATION, 

AND USES, 



By ROBERT HEWITT, Jr. 



ITXXJSTRATED WITH ORIGINAL DESIGNS BT EMINENT AMERICAN ARTISTS, 

AND A MAP OF THE WORLD SHOWING THE SEVERAL PLACES WHERE 

COFFEE IS, OR MAY BE PRODUCED, AND WHERE IT IS ALSO 

USED. 



NEW YORK: 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 

549 & 551 BROADWAY. 
1872. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 







n V. ^V- 



Entered mooarding to Act of CongresB, In the year 1872, 

Bt BOBEBT HEWITT, Jb^ 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 

Bi^ of translation zeaonred. 



Digitized by 



Google 



a?o 






HEBCANTILE A6ILITT AND HONOBABLE DEALING 



ENTITLE HIM TO 



The First Rank and Position 

IN THE 

COFFEE TRADE, 

This Work is (Respectfully Inscribed 

By the Autmob. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 



PAOK 

Preface 7 

Introductory 9 

The History op the Coffee-plant 14 

Its Cultivation in Various Countries 38 

Arabia 42 

East Indies 49 

South America 69 

Methods of Making Coffee 66 

Analysis and Adulteration of Coffee 80 

Tariffs of Various Countries 94 

Statistical Tables of Coffee 99 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 




PEEFAOE. 



The reader may possibly remember among the charming " Essays 
of JSlia'*'* one entitled "A Dissertation on roast Pig," in which the 
writer, with true epicurean zest, insists upon its preferred claims. 
Whether the reader's taste be in exact accord with that of the 
essayist, it may not be easy to determine; but who can fail of 
being delighted with his treatment of the subject? It is with 
some such feeling of enthusiastic interest that the present volume 
has been prepared, and in a similar spirit it is now submitted to 
the candor of the reader. If occasion for enthusiasm is found in 
discussing the merits of roasted pig, surely very much stronger is 
the argument in behalf of roasted Coffee. 

Having from his earliest business associations been personally 
connected with the Coffee-trade, the writer has always been greatly 
interested in collecting anything relating to the history, cultiva- 
tion, or uses of this great staple. Long impressed with the idea 
that the mass of statistical figures that accumulate from day to 
day, in the many circulars and market reports received by those 
engaged in the importation and sale of coffee, tend rather- to con- 
fuse and detract from the importance of this constantly increasing 
branch of conmierce, the following pages are intended to give 
such general information as may perhaps interest not only those 
who are familiar with the business, but also that multitudinous 
class to whom coffee now has become an indispensable beverage; 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



VIU • PREFACE. 

but who for the most part may not be familiar with its history 
and production. In a word, the work seeks to present, in a 
concise yet comprehensive form, all that relates to the history 
and cultivation of coffee in various countries, and the pernicious 
effects of its adulteration. The best authorities have been con- 
sidted in its preparation; and it is to be hoped — since it has 
been compiled in response to repeated inquiries for some such a 
manu al , by persons engaged in the coffee-trade — that it may be 
found acceptable. 

As it would be great temerity on his part, after what has been 
already stated, to bespeak for the volume any special literary merit, 
its claims upon the favor of the reader must depend mainly upon 
the intrinsic value of its statements and facts ; its typographic 
and pictorial character will bear its own comment. "After many 
erasures, interlinings, enlargings, and diminishings,'' it is at last 
completed, and, as it is the first attempt of a novice, it is deemed 
right and proper to say (in strictest confidence) that his vocation 
is simply that of a coffee-broker, one of that numerous fraternity 
whose business it is to please both buyer and seller, and who 
should be informed not only as to the present crop, but, to satisfy 
aome^ should have an opinion, when it is called for, as to all 
coming crops, etc., when chatting in the odd moments pending so 
momentous a transaction as a purchase or a sale (quantity not 
defined) of coffee. In fine, worthy reader, having thus far de- 
tained thee with a relation of the intent and purpose of the fol- 
lowing pages, it only remains, by thy courtesy, to venture the 
hope that what is now presented' concerning the little aromatic 
berry may linger as pleasantly on thy mind and memory as a 
fragrant draught of its infusion does upon thy palate. 

KOBEKT HEWITT, JE. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 




"^Cfjffee ! oh, Cnffec ! F&ith,, it ^f; rarpnsinerH 

^Mid nil thct poctR, (rocxi Eind bnil and ^niir^e, 
Who'^-e MTibbled i^Hock or Chlmi tnuUtgitrng) 

Poat ancl ]ia[jyniA vlth ' itumortnl. veraa,' — 
M^^Jodio^Kly aunllitacliTiiKiiti^ 

Id £apphlc« lai^guiil^ qt Alcaics teree,- — 
Ko tint, my little browni Arublnn byrrj', 

llatb auag tftt/ p!:^b^ — 'tis fiuri^ruiiug, vc:^ 1 "" 

) Is not the very natne, CoffkKj Bnprge&tive 

'S,\ of aromatic odors? la it liot, indeed, tlio 
} fragrant iiieeiisa vre pi-cjffer at the slirnie 
L, - of the social hearth,^the deHeions lihnti^ »n 
which we pour on the altar of friendship ? Talk 
of the famed Falemian wine of the ancients, or the nectar 
and ambrosia of the gods ; what were they to a delectable 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 INTRODUCTORY. 

draught of this world-renowned decoction ? Is it not the luxu- 
rious accompaniment of the chibouk and the cigar, and one of 
the indispensable symbols of the hospitalities and amenities of 
life? Yes, better far than the Bacchanalian cup of old is 
this non-inebriating draught, since it may be indulged with 
impunity; — for while it refreshes and stimulates, it does not 
stultify the mind. Wine, doubtless, inspired the ancient muse, 
and not, indeed, the ancient poets only; and poetry, which 
has been styled " the wine of the mind," was put into compe- 
tition, in olden time, for the prize of a cask of wine ; while 
the Bacchic hymn was styled the " hymn of the cask." The 
poets-laureate have also, from the minstrel-monk, Chaucer, 
down to their living representative in England, continued to 
receive their " pipe of wine ; " from all which it seems that the 
bards do not solely seek inspiration from the Heliconian fount ! 
As a salutary beverage coffee has never, perhaps, been duly 
estimated, since it is not only a digestive drink, but it has 
suppressed to a great extent that excessive indulgence in 
inebriating draughts, that so frequently dishonored the ban- 
quets and prodigal hospitalities of former times. 
*' Yes, the wine's a wayward child, — 

This the cup that ^ draws it mUd ! ' 

Deeply drink its stream divine. 

Fill the cup — ^but not with wine, — 

Potent port, or fiery sherry; — 

For this milder cup of mine, 

Crush me Yemen's fragrant berry I " 

Not alone in the East is the amber beverage indispensable ; 
it has also become a positive necessity in all the great capitals 
of Europe, as well as with all classes throughout the length and 
breadth of our own land. It has been well said by a recent 
writer, in one of our leading periodicals, — " that the proud son 
of the highest civilization can no longer live happily without 
the coffee of African robbers, the tobacco of the red barbarians, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



INTRODUCTORY. 11 

the tea of the despised Chinese, and the sugar of the wretched 
Hindoo or enslaved negro. He cannot break his fast without 
coffee, nor finish his dinner ; and the whole social life of many 
nations is based upon the insignificant bean." The magic 
drink, which has held such unlimited sway over th$ social 
hospitalities of mankind for centuries, has also ministered to 
the relief of innumerable despairing dyspeptics, and achieved 
an incalculable amount of good, in rendering people more 
happy, and on better terms with themselves and everybody 
else, as well as more thoroughly equipped for encountering 
the battle of life. It is also suggestive of pleasant memories 
and visions of joyous, smiling groups that have graced the 
festive board, and shared with ourselves those genial " moods 
and tenses " that constitute much of the poetry of life. If the 
dreamy Mohammedan delights to divide his hours between the 
rival fascinations of his fragrant cup and the aroma of his 
" witching weed " in solemn silence, we of the "Western World 
find in this favorite beverage a delightful auxiliary to some oi 
our purest social pleasures. Its influence upon the social 
habits and intellectual culture of the age is a beneficent one, 
for it not only exhilarates the mind, but it also acts as a gentle 
stimulant, recuperative and sustaining to the physical frame. 
Since cotton has been proclaimed " king " in the realm of com- 
merce, coffee should be styled " queen " among the beverages 
of domestic life. True, tea takes prominent rank with many 
of the gentler sex, yet its fair fame has been traditionally 
suggestive of a love of scandal ; while the aromatic berry is 
wholly free from such a stigma. Had the learned lexicogra- 
pher been less prodigal in his use of tea, and indulged himself 
with a frequent cup of fragrant coffee, he doubtless would 
have exhibited less asperity and angularity of character, and 
might have become as genial as he was wise. Like coffee, 
tobacco is also a potent plant ; — ^both alike hold absolute sway 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



12 INTRODUCTORY. 

over millions of mankind ; yet, yielding too freely to the 
seductive influence of the narcotic weed, we may have to suffer 
the penalty, while with the aromatic berry nature is rarely in 
revolt. The one stimulates but to enervate ; the other refreshes 
and su&tains. CoflFee also is a better disinfectant than tobacco. 

In the olden time, when the " occult sciences," so called, were 
in vogue with the learned as well as the superatitious, women 
indulged implicit faith in omens, premonitions, and " signs." 
In Brande's " Antiquities," allusion is made to a curious species 
of divination by, or tossing of, coffee-grounds. The narrator 
relates a visit he paid to a lady ; — " whom he surprised with 
her company in close cabal over their coffee, the rest very in- 
tent upon one whom by her address and intelligence he guessed 
was a tire-woman, to which she added the secret of divining by 
coffee-grounds. She was then in full inspiration, and with 
much solemnity observing the atoms around the cup ; on the 
one hand sat a widow, on the other a maiden lady. . . . They 
assured him that every cast of the cup is a picture of all one's 
life to come, and every transaction and circumstance is delinea- 
ted with the exactest certainty," etc. The same practice is also 
noticed in the OonnoisseuTy where a girl is represented divining 
to find out of what rank her husband should be : — " I have seen 
him several times in coffee-grounds ^ with a sword by his side ; 
and he was once at the bottom of a tea-cup, in a coach-and-six, 
with two footmen behind it I " 

Leigh Hunt thus pleasantly discourses upon our subject: 
'•• Coffee, like tea, used to form a refreshment by itself, some 
hours after dinner ; it is now taken as a digester, right upon 
that meal or the wine, and sometimes does not even close it ; 
or the digester itself is digested by a liqueur of some sort 
called a cJiasse-cafe (coffee-chaser). "We like coffee better than 
tea for the taste, but tea ' for a constancy.' To be perfect in 
point of relish (we do not say of wholesomeness), coffee should 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



INTRODirCTORY. 13 

be strong and hot, with Kttle milk and sngar. It has been drunk 
after this mode in some parts of Europe, but the pubKc have 
nowhere, we believe, adopted it. The favorite way of taking 
it as a meal, abroad, is with a great superfluity of milk — very 
properly called, in France, cafe-avrlait (coffee to the milk). 
One of the pleasures we receive in drinking coffee is that, 
being the universal drink in the East, it reminds of that region 
of the ' Arabian Nights,' as smoking does for the same reason ; 
though neither of these refreshments, which are identified with 
Oriental manners, is to be found in that enchanting work. 
They had not been discovered when it was written ; the drink 
then was sherbet. One can hardly fancy what a Turk or a 
Persian could have done without coffee and a pipe, any more 
than the English ladies and gentlemen, before the civil wars, 
without tea for breakfast.'' 

Thus much, then, may suffice as our " apology " for propos- 
ing to the reader to accompany us in our rapid survey of the 
career of coffee over the globe, since its first discovery. What 
we have here gleaned from a great variety of sources concern- 
ing the fragrant berry, has been to the compiler by no means a 
theme devoid of interest ; but should the reader not be of the 
same opinion, it may not be inappropriate to suggest that, 
before committing to him the results of our researches, he 
should fortify himself with a cup of the inspiring beverage, 
and thus be put into true sympathy with the subject. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 




F.umLiAn as we all are with 
Coffee as a lievemge, ret eom- 
pamtively how few* of iis ever 
HJiagine that its history can be 
found to possess any particular 
interest, (nr deBerve any especial 
Tioti ce , We sip t ! le aroi n at i < ; d ran ght 
when athirftt, and dL*nve from it a sense 
of i-enevved yi frpT when aweary ; but when 
18 f>nr cnrioeity proYt^ked, or prompted 
to inquire, as to who was the benefactor 
that first discovered its virtues, where it first grew, and by 
what curious process or manipulation we derive the deli- 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 15 

cious drink ? Everything has, indeed, its history or tradition, 
and so has the fragrant little berry, the aromatic incense of 
which so gratefully greets our olfactory nerve, at the repast 
which ushers in the dawn and close of day. 

Coffee, it appears, became known to ci\dlization at an epoch 
memorable for many marvellous events. It was about the time 
of the great awakening of mankind from the long slumbei-s of 
the Middle Ages, when those great luminaries, Columbus and 
Faust, blazed upon the world. One brought to light a new 
hemisphere, and the other gave to mankind the " art preserva- 
tive of arts," and the light of intelligence to the whole civilized 
globe. Coffee was originally known by the name of Kaxdii^ 
an orthography somewhat suggestive of a certain Town Council- 
lor of Leeds, who, writing out a "bill of fare" for a public 
breakfast, contrived to spell coffee without employing a- single 
letter that occurs in that word, thus — Kawj>hy ! Although the 
plant or tree is indigenous to Southern Abyssinia, where it is 
even to the present day cultivated, yet it derived its name from 
Kaffa, in Eastern Africa, where the plant also grows wild, and 
very abundantly. The Malays, who from their intercourse with 
the Arabs have long known the berry, call it by the Arabian 
name, Kawah / the Javanese, however, in common with our- 
selves, designate it Coffee. There is an Eastern legend which 
ascribes the discovery of the berry to a Dervish named Hadji 
Omer, who, in the year 1285, being driven out of Mocha, 
was induced, in the extremity of hunger, to roast the berries 
which grew near his hiding-place. He ate them, as the only 
means of sustaining life ; and steeping the roasted berries in 
water, to quench his thirst, he thus discovered their agreeable 
qualities, and also that the infusion was nearly equal to solid 
food. His persecutors, who had intended that he should die of 
starvation, regarded his preservation as a miracle. He was ac 
cordingly transmuted into a saint forthwith ! 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



16 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

According to the manuscript of Schehabeddin Ben, an 
Arabian Scribe of the ninth century of the Hegira, or the 
fifteenth of the Christian ei*a, which manuscript is, or was, in 
the great Library of the city of Paris, we learn that a certain 
Mufti, or Mohammedan high-priest, named Gemal Eddin, of 
Aden, a town of Arabia Felix, was the first who introduced to 
his countrymen the custom of coffee-drinking. Having returned 
from visiting Persia, where he had observed the beverage used 
as a medicine, and being at the time himself sick, he tried as an 
experiment a dose of the " black draught." Finding it both 
curative and exhilarating, he forthwith turned hig discovery 
to good account, by applying its virtues as an antidote to the 
torpor and drowsiness of his monks, whom he had often found 
dormant at their devotions? 

The example and authority of the Mufti at once conferred on 
coffee a reputation, and it speedily came into general use, not 
only on account of its sleep-dispelling power, but also for its 
other good qualities. Coffee, which had been in use in Ethiopia, 
it is believed, from time immemorial, was carried by the Der- 
vishes to Mecca, where the beverage became so popular with the 
sons of the prophet that its fame soon extended to other towns 
adjacent. It continued its career through SjTia, and was re- 
ceived without opposition at Damascus and Aleppo, and in 
the year 1554 became the favorite drink at Constantinople, 
where, soon after, coffee-houses were opened. 

In the same proportion that the coffee-houses were thronged, 
the mosques became deserted ; and the pjiests represented that 
no doubt the new drink was forbidden by the Koran, for that 
the roasted berry was certainly a kind of coal, and that as such 
it was prohibited by the Prophet's law. The Mufti, on a peti- 
tion to this effect, without hesitation decided that coffee was 
coal ; nevertheless, in spite of frequent enactments against it, the 
people continued to drink it. The exertions of the police were 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 17 

ineffectual, and the government was at length contented to re- 
strain its use merely by rigid sumptuary laws. Coffee was 
taxed, and the black draught was allowed to be drunk in secret. 
But ere long another Mufti arose, of a less antiphlogistic turn, 
and he pronounced coffee not coal, but a right remunerative 
item of government tax. At a later day, when too much free- 
dom of political discussion took place in the Oriental coffee- 
houses, they were suppressed by the Grand Vizier; yet the 
beverage continued to be almost universally used, some persons 
taking even twenty dishes of it in a day — the dishes, however, 
were small. The lower classes also actually begged money for 
coffee ; and it is added by the chronicler of the time, that " the 
refusing to supply a wife with coffee was admitted in law as a 
valid cause of divorce." From the " city of the Sultan " it passed 
to Western Europe, but at what precise time, historians have 
not positively determined. It is believed to have been intro- 
duced into Yenice about the year 1615. In 1644 it was known 
at Marseilles, M. de la Haye having taken with him some of the 
coffee-beans from Constantinople, with vessels and an apparatus 
for making tlie bev^age. 

The traveller Thevenot was among the first to introduce into 
Paris the custom of taking coffee after dinner ; but he had few 
imitators until ten years after, — about 1668, when the coffee 
parties of the Turkish ambassador at Paris brought the bever- 
age into fashion. " The brilliant porcelain cups," says Disraeli, 
" in which it is poured, — ^the napkins fringed with gold, and the 
Turkish slaves, on their knees, presenting it to the ladies, seat- 
ed on the ground on cushions, — turned the heads of the Parisian 
dames," the exotic soon became a subject of general conver- 
sation, and a cafe was opened for the sale of the beverage, in 
1671, by an Armenian of the name of Pascal. The enterprise 
did not succeed, however, on account of the heterogeneous com- 
pany that met there. A few years later, Procope, a Florentine, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



18 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

who became noted as an arbiter of taste in such matters, opened 
a splendid saloon, at which the rank and fashion of the French 
capital used to assemble. 

Soon the cafe became the resort of the most renowned wits, 
artists, and philosophers of the French metropolis — ^Eousseau, 
Voltaire, Piron, with Marmontel and many others. The univer- 
sal favor in which coffee is still held in Paris, sufficiently dis- 
proves the accuracy of the famous prophecy of Madame de 
S^vign^, — that "coffee and Eacine would have their day." 
Among the most noted of the Parisian cafis were those known 
as the Cafi des Mille OolonneSy and the Oafe Turc^ on the 
Boulevard, which were fitted up with oriental splendor, as glit- 
tering with ornament as an opium-eater's dreams, or the glow- 
ing tints of a page of Vathek. 

The high favor with which coffee came at length to be re- 
garded in the houses of the great, may be inferred from the 
fact that a sum equivalent to $15,000 a year was expended for 
supplying the daughters of Louis XV. of France with the bev- 
erage. In 1714 the magistrates of Amsterdam presented Louis 
XIV. with a coffee-tree, which was sent to the Eoyal Gardens. 
It was Louis XIV. who directed M. Des Clieux to take one of the 
plants to Martinique, one of the French West India possessions. 
The voyage proved so tempestuous and prolonged that he was 
compelled to divide his water-rations with it, in order to keep it 
alive. From that parent plant an immense progeny has sprung. 

The consumption of coffee in the French capital at the 
breaking out of the Revolution was something enormous. We 
find it estimated that the French West India Islands furnished 
no less than eighty millions of pounds of it yearly, and this was 
irrespective of a liberal supply from the East. The two 
sources combined were not even adequate to the supply of the 
demand. We are not surely to infer from this circumstance 
that coffee itself possesses any Revolutionary element. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 19 

It was to this extraordinary demand for coffee that the adul- 
terations of the berry may be traced ; — ^the adulterers made for- 
tunes by their combination of chiccory with it, but the well- 
earned reputation of the French suffered by the admixture. 

At the " Cafe Procope," the earliest of these establishments 
in Paris, a curious incident, worth mentioning, occurred con- 
cerning a cup of coffee. As M. Saint Foix was one day seated 
at his usual table in this cafe, an oflScer of the king's body-guard 
entered, sat down, and ordered a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, adding, " It will serve me for a dinner ! " At this Saint 
Foix remarked aloud, " that a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, was a confoundedly poor dinner." The officer remonstrated. 
Saint Foix reiterated his remark, adding, that nothing he could 
say to the contrary would convince him that it was not a con- 
foundedly poor dinner. Thereupon a challenge was given 
and accepted, and the whole company present adjourned as 
spectators of a fight, which ended by Saint Foix receiving a 
wound in the arm. " That is all very well," said the wounded 
combatant, " but I call you to witness, gentlemen, that I am still 
profoundly convinced that a cup of coffee, with milk and a roll, 
is a confoundedly poor dinner ! " At this moment the principals 
were arrested and carried before the Duke de Noailles, in whose 
presence St. Foix, without waiting to be questioned, said, " Mon- 
seigneur, I had not the slightest intention of offending the gal- 
lant officer, who, I doubt not, is an honorable man, but your 
Excellency can never prevent my asserting that a cup of coffee, 
with milk and a roll, is a confoundedly poor dinner." — " Why, 
so it is," said the Duke. " Then I am not in the wrong," per- 
sisted St. Foix, "and a cup of coffee," — at these words magis- 
trates, delinquents, and auditory burst into a roar of laughter, 
and the antagonists became forthwith warm friends. The oldest 
caf^ in the Palais Eoyal is the celebrated " Cafe de Foy," so 
called from the name of its founder. Carl Vernet was one of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



y 



20 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

its most constant patrons. He was there on one occasion when 
some repairs were going on, and in his impatience he flung a 
wet coloring-brush from him which struck the ceiling and left a 
spot. He immediately ascended the ladder, and with a touch 
of his finger converted the stain into a swallow ; and his handi- 
work was to be seen until the recent siege of Paris. It was 
before this caf<5 that Desmoulins harangued the mob, in July, 
1789, with such effect that they took up arms, destroyed the 
Bastille, and inaugurated the fearful scenes of the Eevolution. 
The Germans were initiated into the practice of coffee-drinking 
by their neighbors the French, and also by the Dutch. The 
beverage did not, however, become popular with them until the 
Elector of Brandenburg caused its virtues and praises to be 
celebrated in a book, which he disseminated among the people. 
We have already spoken of the devotion of the Turk to this 
drink, now almost the universal beverage of the East. It is 
difficult to transfer ourselves in thought and feeling to the 
glowing scenes of the Orient. Imagine yourself peering into 
one of the brilliant divans of the " City of the Sultan," with its 
tessellated court-yard, and its towering pinnacle or minaret, 
nestled among mulberry trees and pomegranates. In the cen- 
tre of the richly decorated saloon is the cooling fountain, which 
scatters its silvery spray and fantastic foam over groups of bril- 
liant flowers, while on every side the eye is regaled with varie- 
gated marbles, magnificent arabesques, and gaudy hangings, 
relieved with gilded devices of matchless beauty. In some such 
circumstances of luxurious splendor may be seen the indolent 
Osmanli regaling himself with his favorite weed, and a cup of 
his unmixed Mocha silently brought to him by his Nubian slave, 
in brilliant costume. Among the surrounding groups are some 
Arabs at chess, while others may be listening to one of the 
famous Oriental story-tellers, or gazing at the tricks of some 
juggler, or witnessing the exploits of a dancing dervish. But 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 21 

silence, indoleneej and stoKdity are the prevailing characteris- 
tics of the Turkish divan. ^ In Persia, however, the scene is 
changed ; there the coffee-houses are full of stir and activity. 
Scx)n after morning prayers are announced from the minaret, the 
people flock to their coffee-houses, which are often beautifully 
decorated, and there they sip their coffee, smoke, and listen to 
the wise sayings of Sadi, or the songs of Hafiz, or talk over the 
news of the hour. 

Those who have visited the Havana and roamed through 
that delightful city will remember with pleasurable sensations 
the magnificent cafes, and especially the " Louvre." Sauntering 
from the city gates, where the white-clad officials, with Panama 
hats, demand from all travellers landing from the steamers a 
silver fee for permission to remain a certain number of days 
upon the island, the " looker-on at Yienna " strolls through the 
lovely " Plaza de Armas " with its fountains and its flowers ; 
halts for a few moments on the paved walks, and while lis- 
tening to the music of the military band, admires the beautiful 
faces and graceful toilets of the fair promenaders, who pass 
and repass under the lamps, enjoying the tropical twilight. 
Taking a victoria, which is the popular vehicle always to be 
found ready to convey passengers to any part of the city, he is 
whirled past the palace of the Governor-General, and through 
narrow streets, between the massive walls of houses on either 
side, until he alights at the " Louvre." This cafe is situated 
opposite the Tacon theatre, which is known for its elegance 
of construction and rich appointments. Facing it is a 
splendid park, used as a promenade during the evening, 
when it is brilliantly illuminated. It is the fashionable resort 
for promenaders. The scene is worth witnessing, presenting 
a changing panorama of brilliant variety, while richly ap- 
pointed equipages, volantes and other vehicles, all gayly 
equipped, are constantly passing. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



22 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

Leaving the victoria, which has by this time obtained 
another fare, the cafe with its open doors attracts attention. 
Entering the grand saloon on the first floor, level with the 
narrow sidewalks, which permit only one pedestrian to pass 
comfortably at a time, the visitor seats himself at one of the 
small marble-covered tables that are plentifully distributed 
over the tiled floor; and whatever the temperature of the 
streets may be, the caf ^s are always cool, and at them may be 
met, at certain hours of the day, many English and American 
visitors and residents. Immediately when seated, one of the 
attendants approaches and politely asks, in Spanish, for orders ; 
an attempt to make the waiter comprehend English will 
generally meet with signal failure. While enjoying the 
delicious coffee and a choice cigar, the visitor looks about 
the saloon, which is fitted up in a style of magnificence out- 
rivalling all other cafes in the city. At each of the small 
tables are groups of Spaniards, Cubans, Germans, Englishmen, 
and Americans, with here and there an officer in brilliant 
uniform, all chatting, drinking coffee, or sipping light wines, 
and each, with rare exceptions, fondling a cigar. All over 
this interesting city, more especially in the older portion of it, 
inside the now nearly obliterated lines of ancient walls, the 
caf ^s confront the passer-by at nearly every square. Watching 
an old coffee-drinker in the " Louvre " one day, he was seen to 
carefully drop the white lumps of sugar into his cup until the 
top of the sweet pile rose just above the rich yellow fiuid, and 
then gently rubbing his palms together, he prepared himself to 
enjoy the nectar. " La Dominica " was formerly the favorite 
cafe, but it has of late years been superseded by more modem 
establishments ; it is still however well patronized, but makes 
more of a specialty in manufacturing " dulces " or sweetmeats, 
which have a world-wide reputation, especially the guava 
jelly, most of which comes from this entrepdt. The Havanese 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTOBY OF COFFEE. 23 

understand pretty well how to make and drink coffee, and 
never hesitate to avail themselves of its invigorating influence. 
When dwellers in the tropics — not only in this delightful island 
but wherever coffee is grown — once learn how to make coffee 
in perfection, which can only be done by steam-heat, a new 
impetus will be given to the growth of the bean, for, like all 
discoveries of value, the better an article is produced, the more 
universally is it used. 

Coffee was first regularly introduced into England about the 
middle of the seventeenth century, as we learn from the fol- 
lowing extract from Sir Henry Blount, who visited Turkey in 
1634:— "The Tm-ks have a drink," he writes, "called Cawphe, 
made of a berry as big as a small bean, dried in a furnace, and 
beat to a powder of a sooty color, in taste a little bitterish, that 
they seethe and drink, hot as may be endured. It is good at all 
hours of the day, but especially at morning and evening, when 
to that purpose they entertain themselves two. or three hours in 
cauphe-houses, which, in Turkey, abound more than Inns and 
ale-houses with us." Notwithstanding the opposition and pre- 
judice which prevailed against the beverage for nearly a score 
of years after its first introduction, the coffee-houses continued 
to increase in London and other large cities of England. All 
classes resorted to them ; literary men and artists, mercantile 
men and the votaries of fashion, all had their respective coffee- 
houses. Thus — 

** Mocha's berry, from Arabia pure, 
In small, fine, china cups came in at last.'' ^ 

The English and French dispute the honor of being the first 
introducers of coffee into Western Europe. Coffee was not 
used at Home until long after it had been known to, and 
tasted by, Italian tmvellers at Constantinople; the Church, 
however, looked with favor upon a beverage, one effect of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



24 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

which was to keep both priests and people awake. Although 
the cofFee-houses of England take precedence of those of 
France, yet the latter have more enduringly flourished. 
On the authority of Oldys, the antiquary, " the first use 
of coffee in England was known in 1657, when one Edwards, 
a Turkey merchant, brought from Smyrna to London one 
Pasqua Eosee, a Kagusan youth, who prepared this drink 
for him every morning. But the novelty thereof drawing too 
much company to him, he allowed his said servant, with 
another of his sons-in-law, to sell it publicly ; and they set up 
the first coffee-house in London, in St. Michael's Alley, 
Comhill. But they separating, Pasqua kept in the house ; and 
he who had been his partner obtained leave to pitch a tent, 
and sell the liquor, in St. Michael's Churchyard." Aubrey, in 
his "Anecdotes," states that the first vender of coffee in 
London was one Bowman, coachman to a Turkey merchant 
named Hodges, who was the father-in-law of Edwards, and the 
partner of Pasqua, who got into difficulties, partly by his not 
being a freeman, and who left the country. Bowman was not 
only patronized, but a magnificent contribution of one thousand 
sixpences was presented to him, wherewith he made great 
improvements in his coffee-house. Bowman took an appren- 
tice (Paynter), who learned the mystery of coffee-making, and 
soon after set up for himself. The coffee-houses, after this, 
soon became numerous. 

The frequenters of coffee-houses, however, were not then 
regarded as belonging to the most reputable classes of society, 
and the proposed substitution of a cup of the Arabian infusion 
for Canary wine, provoked the opposition of the wits and 
satirists. The ladies, also, declared against its being thus sold 
at coffee-houses, — ^from which they were excluded, — as being 
unsocial and uncivil. On the other hand, apologists and 
advocates were not wanting in their behalf : one of the most 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 25 

curious of which was that of Aubrey, — ^the Boswell of his 
day, — who declared that he should never have acquired so 
extensive an acquaintance but for the " modem advantages of 
coffee-houses in this great city; before which men knew not 
how to be acquainted but with their own relations and 
societies 1 " 

An animated controversy was kept up about coffee during 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Among the squibs 
and lampoons of the time may be mentioned the following 
piquant titles : — " The Coffee-house Crranado^^ " The Womeris 
Petition against Coffee j^ and " The MerHs Answer to the sained 
Another was entitled, "J. (ywp of Coffee^ or Coffee in its true 
Colour :^^ and a grave writer in prose issued a grotesque 
hand-bill, headed with a rude cut of coffee-bibbers, surrounded 
vrith the following eulogistic legend : " A brief description of 
the excellent vertues of that sober and wholesome drinke, 
called coffee, and its incomparable effects in preventing or 
cm'ing most diseases incidental to human bodies 1 " Wlien first 
introduced into London, coffee sold at from four to five guineas 
a pound. In spite of opposition, coffee soon became a favorite 
drink, and the shops where it was sold, places of general 
resort! Another of the earliest coffee-houses of London was 
the well-known "Eainbow," near Temple Bar, which still 
flourishes, but altogether in a new style. In 1675 a proclama- 
tion was issued for closing all coffee-houses. The government 
soon found, however, that in making such a proclamation they 
had gone a step too far; for the coffee-houses of even that 
day had become a "power in the land." They were indeed 
^the chief organs through which the public opinion of the 
metropolis was expressed. That coffee-houses in Charles the 
Second's time were regarded as headquarters for the news of 
the day, we gather from a "broadside" song, which com- 
mences thus : — 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



26 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

'^ You that delight in wit and mirth, and long to hear snch news 

As come from all parts of the earth, — Dutch, Danes, and Turks, and Jews ;^ 

I'll send you to a rendezvous, where it is smoking new ; 

Aod coming from the coffee-house, it cannot but be true I *' 

Doran, in his amusing volume, " Table Traits," has gathered 
some curious items and incidents connected with the old London 
coffee-houses which are replete with interest, and which we 
shall condense for the reader. The " Grecian" was one of the 
most noted of the old establishments of this kind in London ; 
it appears to have been the oldest of the better-known of the 
coffee-houses, and to have lasted the longest. It was opened by 
one Constantine, a Greek, living in the latter part of the seven- 
teenth century, and its location was in the vicinity of St. Christo- 
pher's Church. Its longevity is not a little remarkable, for its 
career came to a close only in the year 1843, when the '' Grecian 
Coffee-house" became transformed into the "Grecian Chambers," 
or lodgings for bachelors. The establishment did not exist in the 
same locality, however, all the time; for at the time of its 
transformation the " Grecian " was situated in Devereux Street, 
Strand. In its palmy days it was the resort of the learned 
and aristocratic, and its classic name seems not to have been . 
dishonored by its fame. Sparkling humor and genial repartee 
would often flash responsive to the inspiring but non-inebriating 
cup, and thus qualify the gravity of those learned pundits who 
would gather there, not to discuss the trivialities of the day, but 
those weightier matters that concern the rise and fall of dy- 
nasties, — such as the fate of Home and the events which issued 
from the Trojan war. Yet then, as now, satirists would seize 
upon the points of humor ; and as there were pedants as well 
as philosophers who convened at the " Grecian," so lampoons 
and literary squibs were not wanting to enliven the scene. 

It was a time when both sages and sciolists wore swords; 
and it is on record that two friendly scholars, sipping their 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 27 

coffee at the " Grecian," became enemies in argument, the subject 
of which was the accent of a Greek word. Whatever the accent 
ought to have been, the quarrel was acute^ and its conclusion 
grave. The scholars rushed into Devereux Court, drew their 
swords, and as one was run through the body and killed on the 
spot, it is to be supposed that he was necessarily wrong. A 
duel, however, was certainly a strange way of settling a ques- 
tion in grammar. The " coffee-houses " which were resorted to 
for mere conversation as well as coffee began on a first floor ; 
they were the seed, as it were, whence has arisen the political 
and exclusive " club " of the present day. The advantages of 
association were first experienced in coffee-houses ; but at the 
same time it must be admitted that there also was felt the 
annoyance caused by intrusive and unwelcome strangers. 
" Wills's Coffee-house," also known as the " Wits " from its com- 
pany, was situated at the west comer of Bow Street, Covent 
Garden. In the last half of the seventeenth century, its 
popularity was at its height. It was at Wills's that Dryden 
" pedagogued " without restraint, and accepted without a blush 
any amount of flattery on his literary productions. He was the 
great literary luminary around which lesser orbs and satellites 
revolved. He had the good sense, however, to retire early, 
when the tables were full, and he knew he had made a favora- 
ble impression ; but Addison, more given to jolly fellowship, 
sat late with those who stayed to indulge " libations deep." Of 
the disputes that there arose, " Glorious John " was arbiter : for 
his particular use a chair was especially reserved; therein 
enthroned he sat by the hearth or the balcony, according to the 
season, and delivered his decisions. Another of the renowned 
London coffee-houses was " Button's," in Great Eussell Street ; 
this was Addison's favorite rendezvous, although the fruit of the 
vine was, in his case, preferred to the infusion of the berry. 
There, after writing during the forenoon at his house in 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



28 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

St. James's Place, — where his breakfast table was attended by 
such men as Steele, Davenant, Carey, Philips, Pope, and other 
bards and writers of note, — ^he was to be found of an evening until 
supper. Pope was of the company for about a year, but left it 
partly because late hours injured his health, and partly also 
because his irritable temper had rendered him unpopular. He 
had so provoked Ambrose Philips, indeed, that the latter sus- 
pended a birchen-rod over Pope's usual seat, in intimation of 
what the ordinary occupant would get if he ventured into it. 
The Buttonians were famous for the fierceness of their criti- 
cism. Of coffee-houses that went by the name of " Tom's " 
there were three : at that in Birchen-lane Garrick frequently 
might have been seen ; and poor Chatterton, before fell despair 
slew him. At the other coffee-house known as "Tom's," in 
Devereux Court, Akenside, with many of the scholars, critics, 
and scientists of the day used to congregate ; but the " Tom's " 
was opposite Button's, in Great Eussell Street. It was a place 
generally crowded with incident, from the time of Queen Anne 
to that of George III. Seven hundred of the nobility, literary 
notabilities, and wits of celebrity were guinea subscribers to 
this establishment ; most of the company, however, consoled 
themselves with something more potent than coffee. The poli- 
ticians as well as the poets had their coffee-houses ; the " Cocoa- 
Tree " in St. James's Street was the Tory house in the reign 
of Queen Anne ; the " St. James's " was the Whig house. Here 
occasionally might have been seen members of Parliament, also 
a galaxy of literary stars. This had a more solid reputation 
than any other of the coffee-houses except "' White's." " Gar- 
raways," or Garway, as the original proprietor was called, was 
one of the earliest coffee-sellers in London, and his house was 
frequented by the nobility and gentry, as well as others who 
wished to sip the aromatic beverage. All these places, and 
many others which might be referred to, were in full activity of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 29 

business and cofFee-drinMng in the reign of Queen Anne. 
Another notable coflfee-house was known as "Squire's," at 
which the lawyers and politicians were accustomed to meet 
in considerable numbers; and there, it will be rememlbered, 
" Sir Eoger de Coverley " smoked a pipe over a dish of cofFee 
with the " Spectator." But we have been loitering, perhaps 
too long, about the old London coffee-houses, and in tracing the 
history of Cafis in Europe and the East ; still we cannot dismiss 
the subject without referring to the history of cofFee-houses in 
our own country. 

The consumption of the berry is constantly and rapidly 
increasing in the United States, the increased ratio being 
greater than the most sanguine advocate of the beverage could 
ever have predicted, and pure cofFee must soon be so exten- 
sively and universally used that all pertaining to its history 
will be of interest to the world at large. 

In no place in the world, probably, are the influences and 
healthful eflFects of pure cofFee more happily displayed than in 
what is known to every resident and visitor of the Crescent City 
as the old French market of New Orleans. Here, from the 
" earliest time," have been cofFee- venders conveniently distri- 
buted throughout the great maze of stalls and marts, and from 
the small hours in the morning until nearly noon the distribu- 
ters of this most invigorating of beverages are busy as bees. 

Aside from their special occupation, these dealers in cofFee 
are a peculiar people. It seems to be an appropriate vocation 
in this genial climate, which at once strikes the observant tra- 
veller when he first sees a French or Spanish mulatto, with 
her head curiously covered by a gayly striped bandanna, 
serving hot cofFee. Yet it is a fact that it is only people who 
answer to this description who are the most thorough experts in 
extracting the delicious taste from the berry, in keeping the 
delightful aroma from passing away in the ming steam, in pro- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



so THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

viding the best kinds of sugar and* the most honest and well- 
cleaned cups and saucers. At the shrine of one of these ven- 
ders in the early hours of the morning, when the fogs of the 
Mississippi are rolling over the Crescent City, breaking like 
clouds against the intervening Jiouses, and filling the air with 
sickly miasma which nauseates the unfortunate whose business 
calls him out before the fogs are dissipated, then it is that coffee 
is most prized. Look at the recipient, who with blanched face, 
dull eyes, and depressed mien, reaches out his hand and seizes 
upon the nectar. The moment the fragrance reaches his nos- 
trils a transformation for the better commences, the eyes grow 
bright, a healthful color and natural fulness returns to the 
cheeks, smiles wreath the mouth, the mind becomes active, the 
fogs, the dark air, effluvia of all sorts are exorcised like ghosts 
fleeing before the penetrating rays of the unobstructed sun. 

The European, the Creole, the New Englander, the men of 
the West and the far-off Orient, all visit the coffee-stands. 
While partaking there is for the instant a touch of nature which 
makes mankind akin, for it is observable that the recipients of 
the morning cup of pure Java are sociable. Artificial distinc- 
tions are discarded in the very act of drinking in the crowded 
market, or even standing in the open street. But it is the very 
thing, this mixture of the rude and the refined, that adds zest to 
the " open-air cup of coffee." The merry twinkle of the eye of 
the attendant quadroon, her quiet manners, her attentive observ- 
ance of the wants and tastes of the various customers, the very 
polish of the tall copper kettle, the jet of steam, the whiteness 
of the crockery, constitute associations that, once realized, one 
never forgets, and justly places coffee among the most grateful, 
innocent, and healthful things that we Americans include among 
the necessaries of life. 

The coffee-houses of New York are intimately associated 
with the history of the city. Within their walls have been the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 31 

scenes and players whose actions made the pulses of the nation 
throb in high excitement, or calmed them to deep repose. The 
early records show that in 1643 Martin Krigier became the 
owner of a plot of land on the west side of what is now called 
Broadway, nearly opposite the north end of the Bowling Green, 
and built on it Krigier's Tavern. It s^on became a resort of the 
fashionable men of the day, and was at times the headquarters 
of the Dutch Governor, William Kieft. It was removed in 
after-years, and on its site was built the "King's Arms Tavern." 
During the excitement previous to the Revolution, it was 
known as Bum's Coflfee-House, and was used for the meetings 
of merchants and the associations of " Liberty Boys." On the 
31st of October, 1765, the merchants engaged in the importa- 
tion of English goods met at Bum's Coffee-House, and adopted 
resolutions to import no more goods from England until the 
Stamp Act was repealed. Two hundred merchants signed the 
resolutions. During the same evening a non-importation soci- 
ety was formed in the same place, and a committee on cor- 
respondence appointed, comprising many of the well-known 
merchants of New York. During the Eevolution the house 
became the headquarters of General Gage, of the British army. 
Years rolled on, and when Time touched the spot again it was 
changed into the Atlantic Gardens. In the summer of 1860 
the ground was purchased by the Hudson Eiver Railroad Com- 
pany, and the old house was removed to make room for a 
freight depot. 

At the foot of Wall street, still known among the old mer- 
chants as CofFee-House Slip, was the Merchants' Coffee-Housc. 
It stood on the southeast corner of Wall and Water streets, and 
before the erection .of the Tontine Cofifee-House, in 1792, was, 
in fact, the Merchants' Exchange, and political headquarters 
of colonial times. In 1762 a petition was presented to the 
city authorities for the removal of the meal-market at the foot 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



32 THE HISTORY OP COPPER 

of "Wall street, because " it was disagreeable to those that pass 
to and from the Coffee-House, a place of great resort." The 
meal-market was built in 1709, and occupied the site of the 
ancient half-moon fortification and block-house of the Dutch 
era. The Merchants' Coffee-House was five stories high, the 
entrance being even with J:he sidewalk ; a light balcony crossed 
the front and side of the house at the second story. That it 
was a business centre in the early days of the city may be 
gathered from the following copy of an advei*tiQement in the 
newspapers of April 9, 1750 : — " For London. The Ship Brave 
Hawke, John Bill, Conamander ; Will sail in about Ten Days : 
For Freight or Passage agree with John Trowp^ or said Master. 
Just imported a parcel of Likely Negroes to be sold at publick 
Vendue, To-morrow at Ten o'Clock, at the Merchants' Coffee 
House." A New York price-current of August 6th, 1750, 
quotes coffee at 20 pence per pound. The Merchants' Coffee- 
House was destroyed by fire on December 18th, 1804. The 
site was afterwards occupied by the oflSces of the New York 
Journal of Commerce^ one of the most prominent commercial 
newspapers in the country. "While the bounds of the city 
were somewhat limited, — Broadway extending only as far as 
Worth street, and the line of Canal street and Broadway was 
so distant from the city that one of the Lutheran churches, to 
whom was offered six acres of land at that point, declined the 
gift because the land was not worth fencing in, — coffee-houses 
were numerous in New York. Richard Clarke Cook, who had 
bought the interest of Andrew Eamsey in the "King's Arms" 
on Dock street, near the Long Bridge, reopened it on May 7th, 
1750, as "The Gentlemen's and Exchange Coffee-House and 
Tavern." Perhaps the most famous was the City Tavern. It 
was built in the early part of the last century, by the Delancey 
family, and still stands on the southeast comer of Broad and 
Dock, now Broad and Pearl streets. Li 1757 it was occupied by 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 3^3 

Delancey, Eobinson «fc Co., for the sale of "East India goods, 
shoes, stockings, and shirts, white and checked, fit for the army, 
with a variety of other goods." On the 15th of January, 1762, 
the property was conveyed to Samuel Francis, or, as he after- 
wards signed his name, Samuel Fraunces. He was the Del- 
monico of that age, having been the proprietor of the " Mason's 
Arms," near the Bowling Green, the Yauxhall Gardens in 
Greenwich street, and the great Philadelphia stage-office in 
Cortlandt street. Fraunces opened the house on Broad street 
as a tavern, under the sign of " Queen Charlotte." In 1765 
Fraunces retired, and was followed by John Jones. In 1766 
Jones withdrew in favor of Bolton & Sigell, who were thus 
advertised in HoWa New York Journal: — ^"Bolton & Sigell 
Take this method to acquaint the Publick that they propose to 
open, on Monday next, a Coffee-House at the House of Mr. 
Samuel Francis, near the Exchange, lately kept by Mr. John 
Jones, and known by the name of the ' Queen's Head Tavern,' 
where Gentlemen may depend upon receiving the best of 
Usage. As Strangers, they are . sensible they can have no 
Pretensions to the Favour of the Public but what results 
from their readiness upon all occasions to oblige." The 
house enjoyed a fair share of business. The societies met 
there as in the time of Fraunces ; the Chamber of Commerce 
held its monthly meetings there until it secured a room of its 
own; yet the business was not profitable, and in 1770 Mr. 
Sigell retired from the fiim. In the same year Mr. Bolton 
gave up the business, and Fraunces again took possession. It 
was during this last term of Fraunces that the " City," or, as it 
was better known, " Fraunces's Tavern," acquired its celebrity. 
Large dinner-parties were held there, and among the societies 
that met in the upper rooms during the winter was the "Social 
Club." During the summer this Club encamped at Kip's Bay 
Meetings were held on Saturday evenings, and on the rolls were , 
2* 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



34 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

the well-known names of John Jay, member of Congress, minis- 
ter to Spain, minister to England, and Governor of New York ; 
Gouvemeur Morris, Robert R. Livingston, Morgan Lewis, Eg- 
bert Benson, Gulian Yerplanek, President of the Bank of New 
York ; John "Watts, Leonard and Anthony Lispenard, Richard 
Harrison, Peter Van Schaack, Daniel Ludlow, afterwards 
President of the Manhattan Bank; "William Lnlay, and Dr. 
Samuel Bard, Washington's favorite physician. The Club 
was broken up in 1775. In the parlor on the second floor of 
Fraunces's Tavern, on the 4th day of December, 1783, occurred 
the most sadly impressive scene in Washington's history. At 
noon the officers of the army were there assembled, at the re- 
quest of the great chieftain, to finally part The scene has 
been so often described that it needs no repetition here. In 
1789, Fraunces, or, as he was sometimes called, " Black Sam," 
became the chief steward in Washington's household, at the 
residence of the first President, No. 3 Cherry street, near Frank- 
lin square, where we are told Mrs. Washington furnished her 
guests on New Year's day, 1790, with coffee, tea, plum and 
plain cake. 

The celebrated Tontine Coffee-House, on the north-west cor- 
ner of Wall and Water streets, was commenced in 1792, and was 
the scene of many stirring events in the annals of history and 
trade. The Merchants' Coffee-House, on the opposite comer, 
was then called the Old Coffee-House, and its business was 
gradually transferred to the Tontine, to which place the Ex- 
change was moved from the dingy building in the middle of 
Broad street, between Pearl and the river, where it had been 
since the revolution. The following extracts from an article on 
the Tontine Coffee-House will be read with interest : — 

" In 1795 the old Coffee-House was in full operation, but who 
can tell us of the scenes therein? Who can call back the voices 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 35 

of the old merchants of that day, and repeat the stories they 
laughed over in the Coffee-House on 'opening night?' 

" At length the Merchants' Exchange moved further up Wall 
street, and sales of merchandise were not so frequent within the 
old house, but the long stoop on the Wall street front was still 
used, an I the advertisements of the day read, ' At X o'clock, in 
front of T. C, wiU be sold ' ." 

It was designed to provide a central location for the mercan- 
tile community. The merchants had long felt the need of some 
place where they could assemble and discuss the probable re- 
sults of trade and the various questions of the time, and during 
their leisure indulge in a cup of prime old coffee without walk- 
ing to their distant homes in State street. Bowling Green, and 
the lower part of Greenwich street. The property was pur- 
chased by five merchants, and held by them under the provi- 
sions of the Tontine Association as the first board of directors. 

"In 1826 and 1827 the Tontine Coffee-House was in the^ 
hands of John Morse, who had formerly kept the old Stage- 
House at the comer of Church and Crown streets, New Haven. 
He turned the entire house into a tavern, and it so remained for 
several years. The first floor was in one room, running the full 
length of the house, and fronting Wall street. At the back of 
the room, extending nearly its whole length, was the old-fash- 
ioned bar. Jutting out from the counter were curious arms of 
brass, supporting the thick, round, and mast-like timber on which 
the heavy dealere leaned while ordering refreshments. About 
the room were numerous small tables, and after supper, in fair 
weather, around the tables could be seen many of the wealthy 
city men, diminishing the contents of their pewter mugs, or 
planning, amid the curling smoke in the room, their^operations 
for the next day. Morse was not successful in the Tontine, and 
was finally sold out for the benefit of ' whom it might concern.' 

" In 1832 it was kept as a hotel by Lovejoy & Belcher, and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



36 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

was the scene of several brilliant Masonic dinners. The lodges, 
in annual parade, would march from the City Hotel, on Broad- 
way, down to Broad street ; through Broad to Pearl, and thix)ugh 
Pearl street to Wall and the Coffee-House — which they thought 
a long tramp. After the banquet the march would be resumed 
along Pearl to Beekman street, up Beekman to Chatham street, 
down Chatham to Broadway and the City Hotel. 

Caldwell & Kenyon kept a restaurant in the basement; 
they afterwards sold out to Charles Eidabock, familiarly known 
as the ' Alderman.' Charles was a heavy, good-natured Ger- 
man, who kept the dirtiest shop and the best oysters in the city. 
He had been for many years an employ^ of George Washing- 
ton Browne. 

In 1823, when the entire block on the west side of Water 
street, between Pine and Wall streets, was mainly occupied by 
the stores and oflSces of auctioneers, a hotel was opened on the 
opposite side, at Nos. 123 and 125 Water street, by George 
Washington Browne, and called the * Auction Hotel.' The host 
had many friends among the merchants and was well patronized. 
Some years later, in 1832, the physicians in the city urged all 
to abstain from drinking beer and wine, and to drink jpure 
coffee, in order to avoid the cholera, then epidemic. Browne 
immediately opened a large and convenient coffee-room on the 
first floor of the hotel, and the wonders of coffee as a sanitary 
beverage were highly commended. The hotel became familiarly 
known as Browne's Coffee-House and was a favorite dining- 
place. A number of merchants that dined there became known 
as 'the club;' such men as Thomas H. Faile, John J. Boyd, 
Samuel Paxon, Edward Penfold, George W. Blunt, Gilbert 
Davis, and other well-known New Yorkers could daily be met 
there. The club has ceased to meet, but the hotel is open, and 
the coffee-room and restaurant are still patronized. 

On the south-east of what is now Pine and William streets. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 37 

there stood from the year 1812 to 1830 the Bank CofEee-Hoiise, 
kept by William Niblo. Adjoining it on the rear was a garden, 
and the building formerly occupied by the Bank of New York, 
the first banking institution established in this city. Pine 
street was then lined with the residences of prominent lawyers 
and merchants. The houses were nearly all built of brick, with 
sunken areas in front. Mr. Mblo was then a young, active man, 
taking great pride in the reputation of his cafe, and soon made 
it famous for its suppers given by Benedicts taking leave of 
their bachelor friends. In 1830 the Bank Coffee-House passed 
into other hands and was torn down, Niblo going to Broadway 
and Prince street, where he opened the gardens which bore 
his name. 

The cheerful name of coffee-house has somewhat lost its sig- 
nificance in New York with the establishment of the more pre- 
tentious hotels, and in them the coffee-rooms are shorn of many 
pleasant associations. Within a few years a desire has been 
shown to establish richly appointed and well-ordered cafes^ 
managed by chefs from sunny France. Those who early em- 
barked in the business have enlarged their establishments, and 
new ones ^re constantly springing up in nearly every sec- 
tion of the metropolis, especially on the fashionable thorough- 
fares, and young New Yorkers have not been long in adopting 
the Parisian ideas and conveniences of the cafi^ as a pleasant 
place to stroll in after the opera or theatre. 

To judge of the estimate in which coffee is held in the United 
States, it is only necessary to refer to the table showing the 
annual average consumption to see that we are by far the 
largest coffee-consumers in the world ; six-fold more than some 
of the States of Europe. Germany and France stand next to 
ourselves in the rank of gi-eat coffee-drinkers. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 




It is a ciirums fftcf, tliat thrm 
plants t'oinieet together throe dif* 
ferent qiiartei"fi of the globe, which 
iniglit cithenvise ha^e known ixmi- 
paratively little of each other; 
Arabia h linked to Anicri(^a and 
Eim>pe bj her coffee; Ohhia, bj 
her tea; and tobacco has been for 
ages fine of the eonnectiiig com- 
inercial bonds between the two 
hem i spheres. 

Eeft?re referring to the variofus 
methods of cultivation, it may not be inappropriate, briefly 
to describe the plant itself. Coffee^ a cinchonaceous genus, 



Digitized by 



Google 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 39 

consisting of many species of tropical berry-bearing shrubs, 
one of which, Coffcea Arahioa^ — the only one which is 
cultivated, — is a native of Upper Ethiopia and Arabia 
Felix. This is the parent of the plant from whose crushed 
berries we derive that delightful aromatic drink called cof- 
fee. This albuminous substance — the coffee of commerce 
— is to that plant what the flour is to com, the white 
meat to a cocoa-nut, and the aromatic ruminated substance 
to the nutmeg. It is a secretion formed in the interior 
of the seed, and enveloping the embryo plant, for whose 
support it is destined when it fii'st begins to germinate ; it 
constitutes the principal part of the seed, the embryo being 
itself a minute body lying in a cavity at one end of the al- 
bumen. 

Linnaeus places the plant among the Pentandria Monogy- 
nia ; its flower consists of one funnel-shaped petal, with a 
slender tube, nearly cylindrical, much longer than the flower- 
cup. It is described botanically as an ever-green shrub in its 
native state, having oval, shining, sharp-pointed leaves, white, 
fi'agrant, five-cleft clustered corollas, with projecting anthers, 
and oblong pulpy berries, which are at first of a bright red 
color, but afterwards become purple. The dark-green leaves, 
shining brilliantly in the sun, afford a beautiful contrast to the 
pure white, jessamine-like blossoms that cluster and nestle 
among the foliage ; which ever and anon turns fitfully up with 
the breeze its white under-lining, and glitters like the foam- 
crest on the ocean wave. Its leaves resemble those of the 
common laurel, although not so dry and thick. From the 
angle of the leaf-stalks small groups of the white flowers issue, 
which, as already stated, resemble those of the jessamine. These 
flowers fade very soon, and are replaced by a kind of fruit not 
unlike a cherry, which contains a yellow fluid enveloping two 
small seeds or berries, convex upon one side, flat and furrowed 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



4:0 CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VABIOUS COUNTRIES. 

upon the other. These seeds are of a homy or cartilaginous 
nature ; they are glued together, each being surrounded with a 
peculiar coriaceous membrane. The period of flowering does 
not last more than two days. In a single night the blossoms 
expand so profusely that the trees appear as if covered with 
snow. The seeds are known to be ripe when the berries have 
a dark red color. 

Travellers and planters tell us that nothing can be conceived 
more delightful than the appearance and perfume of a cofiFee 
plantation in full bloom. The air is filled with fragrance, and 
the trees appear as if a shower of sn,Qw had just fallen on their 
dark-green glossy leaves, which are almost entirely hidden by 
the profusion of delicate white blossoms. This tare beauty is, 
however, but short-lived, — for the splendid array of the morn- 
ing may, perchance, fade away with the heats of noon, or 
the mellowing tints of even. 

Prof. Baird, speaking of a plantation in the West Indies, says : 
"Anything in the way of cultivation more beautiful or more fra- 
grant than a coffee plantation I had not conceived : and oft did 
I say to myself that if ever I became, from health or otherwise, 
a cultivator of the soil within the tropics, I would cultivate the 
coffee-plant, even though I did so irrespective altogether of the 
profits that might be derived from so doing. Much has been 
written, and not without justice, of the rich fragrance of an 
orange-grove ; and at home we ofttimes hear of the sweet odors 
of a bean-field. I too have often enjoyed, in the Carse of 
Stirling and elsewhere in Scotland, the balmy breezes as they 
swept over the latter, particularly when the sun had burst out 
with unusual strength after a shower of rain. I have likewise 
in Martinique, Santa Cruz, Jamaica, and Cuba inhaled the gales 
wafted from the orangeries; but not for a moment would I 
compare either with the exquisite aromatic odors from a coffee 
plantation in full blow, when the hill-side, quite covered over 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 41 

with the regular rows of the tree-like shrub, with their millions 
of jessamine-like flowers, showers down upon you as you ride 
up between the plants a perfume of the most delicately deli- 
cious description. 'Tis worth going to the "West Indies to see 
the sight and inhale the perfume." 

TumbuU, another authority on the subject, tells us that " the 
fragrance of the gardens of the Tuileries is as inferior to that 
of the Moorish gardens of the Alcazar, at Seville, as these last 
— with all the care bestowed upon them — are excelled by some 
neglected orange-grove in Cuba or St. Domingo. Nor is the rich 
fragrance of the orange-gi^ove to be compared for a moment 
with the aromatic odors of a coffee plantation, — when its 
hundred thousand trees have just thrown out their unrivalled dis- 
play of jessamine-like flowers, — ^reminding you of what you 
may have read in Eastern fable of the perfumes of ^ Araby the 
blest ! ' " It is also amid the prodigal luxuriance and splen- 
dors of tropical vegetation that the coffee-plant most loves to 
linger, loading the atmosphere with its perfumed sweets, as 
well as regaling the eye with its rare beauty. No wonder that 
. such surpassing scenes of beauty should inspire the poet to such 
utterance as the following : — 

" Earth from her lap perennial verdure pours, 
Ambrosial fruits and amaranthine flowers : 
Over wild mountains and luxuriant plains, 
Nature in all her pomp of beauty reigns I 
Stem Winter smiles on this auspicious clime ; 
The fields are florid in eternal prime ; 
From the bleak pole no winds inclement blow, 
Mould the round hail, or flake the fleecy snow ; 
But from the breezy deep the groves inhale 
The fragrant murmurs of the eastern gale ! " 

The clustered trees of the golden Mocha in their native soil 
present a strange contrast, however, with the aspect of the land- 
scape farther northward. "There," states a recent authority, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



42 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

" a low, sandy shore affords a free view over vast treeless plains 
which stretch in sad monotony as far as the eye can reach, 
while the cloudless sky sends down an almost insupportable 
heat; only here and there a limited pasture, with lean grass and 
a few graceful palm-trees, breaks the mournful uniformity ; in 
the grateful shade a few Bedouins rest under their black tents, 
while their brethren hasten on the uncouth dromedary through 
the yellow desert. Very different is the scene on the southern 
slope of the great peninsula ; for here an abundant, fragrant 
vegetation unfolds its riches and enchants the senses ; incense 
grows like the juniper of our woods ; whole forests of palm-trees 
overshadow the lower parts of the mountains, and vast stretches 
of durra wave like golden grain in the gentle breeze. This is 
the home of the coffee-tree." 

Amid such profusion of natural beauty rises the graceful 
plant that bears the berry we so much prize. Not only does 
the plant load the air with delicious perfume, but beautiful 
butterflies are ever fluttering among its honeyed blossoms, suck- 
ing sweets ; while locusts are chirping on every branch, and a 
cloudless blue sky looks down upon the exuberant splendor, till 
the blossoms fade, and become transmuted in process of time 
into a red berry, the kernel of which is the coffee-bean. While 
these berries are maturing and becoming dark purple — such 
are the effects of a tropical climate — the tree produces a second 
and a third crop of snowy blossoms, so that the beautiful green 
pyramidal branches are garnished with buds, and flowers, and 
fruits, at every stage of development. 

Coffee is still cultivated in "Araby the blest," the coffee- 
gardens there being on terraces which reach to an elevation 
of about 3,000 feet. The soil is kept moist by means of 
small artificial canals, which are made to irrigate the whole 
by the water falling from the upper to the lower terraces. 
The trees here are planted so closely together that the thick 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 43 

foliage shelters their roots from the tropical heat of the 
sun. 

Niebuhr states that the plant was brought from Abyssinia 
by the Arabs to Yemen. For ages it is believed to have 
been cultivated in the hilly range of Jabal. Here the 
plants are grown in a soil continually irrigated, and where 
trees of various kinds are interspersed among the plantations, 
whose shade has a beneficial effect upon the coffee bushes. 
The fruit begins to ripen in February ; and when the seeds 
are prepared they are conveyed to the city of Beit el Fakih, 
whence part goes to Mocha, another portion to Hodeida 
and Loheia, whence it finds its way to Djedda and Suez, 
for the Turkish and European markets. 

Coffee, it has been proved, can be cultivated with great ease 
and to any extent in the republic of Liberia, being indigenous 
to the soil and found there in abundance. It bears more fruit 
there and lasts longer than elsewhere. A single tree at Mora- 
via, it is said, has yielded the enormous quantity of 16 pounds 
at one gathering. It was estimated some years since that there 
were about 30,000 coffee-trees in one of the counties, that of 
Grand Bassa, and the quality of the produce was stated to be 
equal to the best Java. About the villages and settlements of 
the Sherbro Eiver and Sierra Leone, wild coffee-trees are very 
abundant. 

If, as it has been computed, there are now consumed 
annually a thousand million pounds of the precious bean, 
Coffee can no longer be said to hold an insignificant place 
among the staples of trade. On the contrary, its impor- 
tance as such can hardly be over-estimated, when it is remem- 
bered to what vast multitudes of persons its cultivation, 
transportation, and preparation for use afford profitable means 
of support. 

There is scarcely any other item of conunerce that has made 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



44 CULTITATIOX OF COFFEB IS VARIOUS COITNTRIES. 

more rapid progress in the world, or gained for itself more 
general acceptation with all classes, than cofiFee. Its constantly 
increasing consomption as a beverage, as seen by the statistical 
tables, clearly prores that it may be regarded not only as one of 
the necessities of civilized life, but also as a very important one. 
Two things connected with cofiFee conduce to its popularity, — 
its refreshing, restoring, and exhilarating qualities and its non- 
inebriating influence. A beverage that shall be found to 
combine these essential requisites is, indeed, a sine qua non 
with multitudes, who, while they would seek the stimulant, 
would also avoid the penalty of the intoxicating draught 
CofiFee, therefore, is to be regarded as an auxiliary to temper- 
ance ; since its use tends lai^ly to supersede that of spirituous 
liquors. This continued increase in the demand for the bever- 
age, irrespective of climatic influences, will of necessity extend 
the present area of its cultivation largely into those belts 
of land which are favorable to the production of the plant. 
These lands are found lying principally between the isothermal 
lines of 25^ north and 30° south of the equator, as may be 
seen by reference to the accompanying Map. It has been 
ascertained that the plant cannot be grown to advantage in 
places where the thermometer descends at any time below 55°. 

Besides the existing countries where coffee is cultivated, 
there are many other places where it might be extensively 
grown, such, for instance, as the western coast of Africa 
generally, the interior ranges of Natal, the mountain ranges 
on the northern coast of Australia, from Moreton Bay to Torres 
Straits, &c. Soil and climate are the circumstances which 
chiefly affect its commercial value. 

The cultivation of coffee is now widely diffused over all the tro- 
pical parts of the world. It is found in most of the West India 
Islands, in the provinces of Central America, Cayenne, Peru, 
Bolivia, and especially Brazil — the greatest market of alL It 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 45 

is widely spread over Arabia, the western coast of India, 
Ceylon, Sumatra, Bourbon, Mauritius, Java, and some of the 
Pacific Islands; and in many of these places it is found in 
climates differing as much as 20° in average temperature. 
By reference to the Map, a bird's-eye view may be obtained 
of the several places where the berry is most cultivated or 
where it may be advantageously produced. According to 
M. Lascelles, "The coffee-plant will bear extremes of cli- 
mate better than most plants. In Jamaica it is found on 
the Blue Mountain, upwards of 6,000 feet above the sea; 
and in the East Indies it is seen growing, and producing at 
Coonoor on the Neilgherries, at a similar elevation ; whilst, on 
the other hand, it is also seen growing at the level of the sea 
in both hemispheres, a difference of average temperature of 
from 20° to 30°. It has been contended by some that the 
coffee produced at a high elevation is of a finer quality than 
that grown in a warmer temperature ; this is, however, gener- 
ally considered questionable." 

" When grown at the extremes of climate it is small, gener- 
ally much lighter, and the actual number of berries is far less 
than that grown in a genial climate. Experience has proved 
that from lat. 6° to 12° an elevation of from 3,000 to 4,000 feet 
is the most suited, whilst beyond this 500 feet of elevation 
should be allowed for every degree of latitude. It is now an 
ascertained fact that much of the far-famed Mocha coffee is 
produced in the East Indies and shipped to Mocha ; and no in- 
considerable portion also comes from the low land of Kaflfa and 
Enarea, in Africa. The excellence of Mocha coffee appears to 
consist more in the name and method of curing than any other 
cause." 

A recent authority remarks: "It is often the case that theory 
is opposed to practice in upholding the idea that there is any 
substantial difference in the coffee grown in different countries. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



46 CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VABIOUS COUNTRIES. 

Where such difference is really found to exist, it will generally 
be the result of different modes of cultivation and preparation 
for the market, or what is known as curing. 

" The quantity of rain is found to exercise a material effect 
on the quality of the crop, and a dry climate produces a 
better flavored and more colory bean than the excessive 
moisture prevalent on some of the most highly esteemed 
districts, both in the eastern and western hemispheres. It may 
be mentioned in proof of the first of these statements, that the 
size and appearance of the bean have been entirely changed 
by improved or neglected cultivation, and in one estate in 
India the beans are scarcely larger than sweet-peas, owing to 
the proprietor having adopted a theory of never pruning the 
trees; whilst several estates that had been neglected have 
improved both in quality and quantity of produce to an extent 
scarcely credible since they have been manured and pruned. 
Seeds from Mocha, Brazil, and Java have been tried in Ceylon 
and India, and the produce has not differed in any respect 
from that of the plants already in existence there. An 
excessively moist climate has further a tendency to pro- 
duce long, weak, elongated shoots, drooping at the extremi- 
ties, and the foliage thin, the leaf long, but devoid of sub- 
stance. 

"The coffee-tree flourishes in hilly districts where its root 
can be kept dry while its leaves are refreshed with frequent 
showers. Eocky ground with rich decomposed mould in the 
fissures agrees best with it. Though it would grow to the 
height of fifteen or twenty feet, yet it is usually kept down 
by pruning to that of five feet, for increasing its productive- 
ness, as well as for the convenience of cropping. It begins 
to yield fruit the third year, but is not generally in full 
bearing until the fifth. In coffee husbandry the plants 
should be placed eight feet apart, as the trees throw out 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CITLTiVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 47 

extensive horizontal branches, and in holes ten or twelve feet 
deep, to secure a constant supply of moisture. 

" The berries, as a general rule, when ripe are picked and 
spread out on large drying-grounds, and are dried with the 
pulp and parchment on the bean; when thoroughly dry 
the berries are passed under wooden rollers, or poimded in 
wooden mortars, and the outer skin being thus removed, the 
beans are winnowed, garbled, sized and packed for the market. 
The coffee prepared in this way is seldom so even in color 
and appearance, but the aroma is better. This method is, 
however, open to serious objections. Owing to the much 
greater bulk of the coffee before the pulp is removed, the 
room for drying would require to be very extensive, and as 
coffee is very liable to ferment in the pulp, it must be laid 
very thin, and constantly turned ; whilst ip the event of wet 
weather or exposure to moisture, or the equally dangerous 
alternative of heaping it up, the whole would ferment and 
be utterly spoiled.'' 

The system pursued by most planters for removing the 
pulp is by machinery. After being washed and put on the 
barbecues to dry, it is of importance to keep the coffee 
constantly turned until it is all surface-dry, and the beans 
cease to adhere to each other, but it should not be exposed 
to sun or wind until the parchment cracks, as every hour's 
exposure to the atmosphere, after that is removed, takes 
away both from the color and the aroma of the bean. Of 
course what has been said presupposes that the coffee is 
picked when fully ripe, since no care in curing or packing 
will impart color or flavor to a half -ripe bean. For packing, 
casks or cases are preferable to sacks, since coffee has a 
strong attraction for damp and for all scents, and its aroma 
will also suffer by its contact with any substance with which 
it may be brought into connection. There are said to be 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



48 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

ten varieties of the coffee, but only one is found indigenous 
to India, and it is questionable if this is not the Mocha 
species introduced from Arabia. 

The island of Ceylon is situated in the Indian Ocean, and 
belongs to Great Britain. Little is known of the aboriginal 
inhabitants of the island; at present they resemble the Hin- 
doos of the neighboring continent, and consist in part of 
Singhalese. The Singhalese spoken language is peculiar to 
this island; but their written language is either Pali or 
Sanscrit. Ceylon claims to possess historical records dating 
back some twenty-four centuries, and their authenticity as 
regards descriptions of ancient towns, buildings, and works of 
art is established by existing ruins, proving that the island had 
been at a remote period inhabited by a powerful and numerous 
people. Ceylon was known to the Greeks and Eomans in the 
time of Alexander ; it was also visited by traders in the sixth 
century, and by Marco Polo in the thirteenth century. Little 
was known of it, however, until 1505, when the Portuguese 
established a regular intercourse with the island, being encour- 
aged thereto by the King of Kandy, who first paid them 
tribute in cinnamon, to defend the island against the Arabian 
pirates. The Portuguese were subsequently expelled by the 
Dutch, who in turn were driven from the island by the 
British. " The total export of coffee from Ceylon in the year 
1837 was valued at less than $500,000. 

" In 1870 the export was over 94,000,000 lbs., equivalent to 
fully $17,500,000 in the consuming markets. Within the past 
fifteen years even the number of coffee plantations in Ceylon 
has increased from 404 to 1,004; the extent of land planted 
from 80,000 acres to 200,000, or over 312 square miles, and 
the crops have generally been favorable. This is exclusive of 
coffee cultivated by the natives in their gardens, supposed to 
cover 50,000 acres more. ' Native ' coffee is the kind usually 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 49 

exported from Ceylon to Europe, America, and the Australian 
colonies, and it is prepared for the market after a different 
fashion from the plantation kinds, which are generally dearer. 
There are now 1,000 working coffee plantations in Ceylon, 
requiring 200,000 coolies (men, women, and children from 
Southern India) to cultivate and gather crops, and worth for 
the 312 miles of cultivation, together with the buildings, 
machinery, anfl stock, not less than $35,000,000." 

The most suitable soil in the East Indies for the coffee-plant 
is that which grows soft timber. The latest authorities seem 
to confirm the opinion of Laborie, who observes : " If the first 
(tap root) finds the quickstone, gravel-stone, or clay, the tree 
will not last long ; but if it, as well as the roots, find their 
way through stony ground, and if there be a good proportion 
of mould, it suffers no inconvenience, as the stones keep the 
mould together." The finest estates are said to be of this latter 
character of soil, and have given consecutively heavy crops, 
with the assistance of little or no manure. While estates of a 
lighter soil, having lost nearly all the mould, and having no 
good subsoil, have to be regularly manured. In a word, a 
dark chocolate-colored soil, mixed with small stones, under 
ledges of rock, and bestrewn with bouldei'S, is the best ; and 
the most favorable elevation is 3,000 feet. A level piece of 
virgin ground, not far from water, where the soil is rich and 
crumbly, is the most eligible for the construction of a nursery. 
First the land must be thoroughly cleared, and all but the 
largest stumps of the forest-trees rooted out ; the soil must be 
dug to the depth of nine or twelve inches, and be made as 
friable as possible, then divided into beds with narrow paths 
between them, the seed, in parchment (generally taken from 
the cisterns after being pulped), should be put in, tow by row, 
about six inches apart. A rope the length of the beds is used 
for this purpose, stretched from one end of the beds to the 
8 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



50 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

other. The seed, if sown in suitable weather, soon makes its 
appearance above the surface; so that a nursery made in 
May or June of one year has plants fit to put out at the 
same date in the following year. A slightly inclined piece of 
land is more desirable for a nursery, because the natural drain- 
age would be better ; and it is important that care should be 
taken to prevent damage by heavy rains. One bushel of parch- 
ment coffee is calculated to yield about 30,000 {)lants ; so that 
for a clearing of 100 acres, four or five bushels of seed would 
be required. When the young trees in a nursery have attained 
a growth and age at which their being planted out as jplanta 
becomes rather a doubtful proceeding, with reference to the 
probability of their succeeding and taking root, it is better to 
make "stumps" of them: this is done by pulling them up, 
with as little injury as possible to the roots, and cutting them 
down to about six inches above the root ; then to shorten the 
tap-root by a careful sloping cut ; next to trim the other lateral 
roots, which are often needlessly extended. Filling in is the 
operation that follows holing. It has been ascertained by 
experience, that leaving the holes open for ^some time is very 
beneficial to the soil in a chemical point of view. Filling in, 
like every other work on a coffee estate, should be carefully 
superintended. But of all operations in the formation of 
a coffee plantation, the actual placing of the plants in the 
holes is the one that requires the utmost care and attention. 
Early planting is, of course, desirable, because the trees have 
the benefit of the entire rainy season, and are sure to give a 
larger maiden crop. The usual course of transferring the 
plants is as follows: when pulled up, those with crooked 
roots should be picked out and thrown away ; the roots should 
then be trimmed with a sharp knife, diminishing the length 
of the tap-root suflSciently to prevent the chance of its being 
bent or broken. The plant should not be put deeper into the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 51 

earth than it was before it was pulled up ; it should then be 
pressed down with the hands or firmly trodden down. A 
coffee plantation, to be worked effectively, requires to be well 
" roaded " and drained. Drains, like roads and paths, should 
be cut as soon as the estate is commenced, or at all events 
before the trees cover the ground, or the coffee will suffer. 
These drains are usually about fifteen inches wide and deep, 
and at the distance of every twenty trees, which would be 
about 120 feet apart. As weeds are the bane of coffee estates, 
they are to be constantly cleai'ed off, at least once a month. 
When the trees have been freed from suckers, and have 
reached twelve or eighteen months, the operation of tapping is 
usually commenced. The advantages for the custom are thus 
detailed by Lahorie : " First, it brings the fruit within easy 
reach, and prevents the branches being broken ; secondly, the 
tree thereby acquires strength and vigor both below and above 
ground, and the stem becomes larger in circumference; 
thirdly, it affords less hold to the winds ; fourthly, the form of 
the tree is more beautiful ; and fifthly, it loses none of its 
inferior branches, which, as nearer the source of vegetation, 
are better nourished, and, of course, more productive." Plant- 
ers have observed that the part of the tree most exposed to the 
sun and air usually bears the heaviest clusters ; therefore the 
more the tree is thinned out, the more it bears. This is 
exemplified by young trees in their second and third crops, 
which bear very heavily, chiefly from the primaries and 
secondaries. Commonly, coffee-trees bear heavily, one year 
and lightly the next. Kegular pruning and searching have 
been found to produce the most satisfactory result. 

The next thing in order is the handling, which should be 
done twice if practicable before crop. If the force on the 
estate admits of it, the prunings should be buried in trenches 
between the trees. They soon turn into vegetable mould, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



52 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

and the loosening of the soil and cutting of the long fibrous 
roots very much invigorate the trees. In the same manner, 
the young wood, after the searching, may be buried with 
great advantage to the surrounding trees. No branch should 
be allowed to bear more than two, or at most three crops ; 
it should then be removed to make room for a fi*esh one. 
As the same wood never bears twice, the branches, if allowed 
to bear more than three crops, degenerate into mere whips, 
bearing only a few berries at the extremities. No definite 
rule can be given for pruning old trees, however; as M. 
Sabonadiere informs us, much depends upon their condition. 
He states that he took charge of an estate, some portions of 
it at a great elevation. The trees had not been pruned for 
some years, and were a mass of thick cross branches and 
matted leaves ; a man might have made a bed on the top of 
them. It would never have done to reduce these trees at 
once to mere primaries or parrot-poles. The course pursued 
was to saw out the cross branches, and open out the 
centre of the trees about eighteen inches in circumference; 
then to take off and thin out about half the remaining wood : 
the effect was wonderful. They were afterward handled 
once or twice, and the result has been a very good crop, 
on a property which had not yielded a remunerative one 
for many years. This pruning also seemed to drive 
away the coffee-bug, and much reduced its ravages. Only 
during the three or four days of blossom-time is it advisa- 
able to stop pruning, otherwise much damage may be 
done, and the crop lost. After the blossom, and when it 
has set, all the more care is needed to prune with caution, 
the best branches being retained; while those which should 
have come off, even if they have crop upon them, must not 
be left. Sufficient pruning must be done to insure a supply 
of new wood, and to give health and vigor to the tree to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 53 

mature its crop. It has been effectually proved that 
draining to prevent wash and waste of soil, and a system 
of manuring while the trees are still young and vigorous, 
tend to prolong the age of estates. There is no doubt 
that, imder such a system, coffee-trees may have as long 
an existence as other evergreens; excepting, of course, 
such contingencies as over-bearing, attacks of grubs, the 
tap-root coming in contact with rock, or becoming rotten 
from swampy soil ; all of which bring the tree to premature 
decay. For that destructive scourge, the coffee-bug, the 
following remedy has been tried with great success : namely, 
— to apply saltpetre in a finely-powdered state, dusted 
over the tree when wet with rain or dew. 

Concerning manures much has been written ; but it is found 
by experience that those are the best which are in general use : 
these consist of bone-dust, poonac, guano, lime, salts, wood- 
ashes, burnt clay, pulp, and last, but not least, cattle-manure. 
Composts should be applied above the tree in semicircular 
holes ; they should be filled in with any prunings or vegetable 
matter at hand, and then covered by the loose top soil; 
the new earth from the holes should be used to cover the 
roots. The earth over the manure should be well trodden 
down, to prevent its being washed away by heavy rains, 
or turned up by careless weeders. The next process 
consists of picking, curing, and despatching the crop for 
market. When coolies are turned out for gathering or 
picking they are provided with what is called in planter- 
parlance a gunny-hag^ holding from two to three bushels; 
they have also smaller sacks fastened round their waist; 
into these they first collect the berries, and then fill the 
larger vessels. When fully ripe, the sooner the coffee is 
pulped the better, otherwise it heats and the color of the 
parchment is spoiled. In dry weather it is sometimes 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



54 CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

necessary to sprinkle water over the cherry, and to let it 
soak for some hours to make it palpable; since if passed 
through the pulpers in a dry state, it would be much cut 
and damaged. 

Amongst other items to be observed in the culture of coffee, 
the following are of important and practical value. The fruit 
should be gathered in when resembling ripe cherries ; it should 
then be measured and thrown into a loft above the pulper in a 
heap. It should be submitted to the first process of machinery, 
the pulper, within twenty-four hours after, if not immediately. 
The pulped berries may remain a day and a night, for the 
process of fermentation; the mucilaginous matter is to be 
then washed off. In an hour or so the coffee may then 
be removed for curing: it is there spread out thinly and 
exposed to the sun, which will in eight or nine hours 
absorb all the water, and leave the coffee fit for housing. 
When coffee is perfectly cured — ^which is generally ascer- 
tained by threshing out a few berries in one's hands, and 
seeing if it has attained its homy blue color — it is then 
fit for milling, which is the second process it has to undergo 
by machinery. Here the parchment and silver skins are 
dislodged from the berry, by means of the friction of a 
large roller passing over the produce in a wooden trough. 
It is then submitted to the fanner or winnowing machine, 
and the coffee passed through* two or three sieves, when 
it comes away perfectly clean, and thus, being sized, hand- 
picked, and packed, it is forwarded by mules or railroad 
to market. 

A recent eastern traveller, Bickmore, informs us tihat 
in the large wooden storehouses where the coffee is received 
from the interior, and kept for exportation, the rich aromatic 
fragrance given out by the berry differs much more than 
any one would believe from the ordinary fragrance to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 55 

which we are accustomed. Here it, is stored in bags, 
just as it comes in from the plantations. "In order that 
I might see what superior coffee the Minahassa produces," 
he says, "the Resident had several bags opened. I found 
the kernels, instead of being opaque, and having, as we 
usually see them, a tinge of bronze, were translucent 
and of a greenish-blue color. The best are those which 
have these characteristics, and at the same time are very 
hard. One of the first plants raised at Batavia was sent 
to Holland, where it bore fruit, and the plants from its 
seeds were carried to Surinam, where they flourished, and 
in 1718 coffee began to be an article of export from tiiat 
port. Ten years later it was introduced into the French 
and English islands of the West Indies, having previously 
been successively introduced into Java and Holland. I am 
told that it was first brought here from Java by a native 
prince, and the remarkable manner in which it thrived 
having attracted the attention of the officials, more trees 
were planted. There has been a steady increase, both in 
the number of trees and in the quantity of fruit they 
have yielded ; but yet not more than one-half the number 
are planted that might be, if the population was sufficiently 
great to take care of them. With such an enormous yield 
a large surplus is left in the hands of the government after 
it has paid the natives who cultivate it, the percentage to 
the chiefs, and the cost of transportation from the small 
storehouses in the interior to the large warehouses on the 
coast, from which it is put on board of vessels, for shipment 
to Europe and America." 

When Arabia enjoyed the exclusive monopoly of coffee, it was 
not suspected that one day the Island of Java would furnish 
for the use of the civilized world over 130 millions of pounds 
per annum. The selection of soil and situation best suited for 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



56 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

the growth and culture of coffee in Java, differs little essential- 
ly from that of other oriental plantations. Valleys lying between 
high mountains are preferred here for coffee-growing, because 
the' soil which is washed down from the heights affords fresh 
food continually to the lowlands ; the valleys themselves are of 
the proper moisture, since the hills surrounding them attract 
the rain. 

The labor by which coffee is planted in Java and its produce 
collected is included among the oppressions or forced services 
of the natives, and the delivery of it into the government stores 
among the forced deliveries at inadequate rates. 

Previous to the year 1808 the cultivation of this plant was 
principally confined to the Sunda districts; there were but 
comparatively few plantations in the eastern districts, and the 
produce which they were capable of yielding did not amount 
to one-tenth, part of the whole, but under the administration of 
Marshal Daendals this plant usurped the soil destined for the 
subsistence of the people ; every other kind of cultivation was 
made subservient to it, and the withering effects of a govern- 
ment monopoly extended their influence throughout every 
province of tKe island. 

In the Sunda districts each family was obliged to take care 
of 1,000 coffee-plants, and in the eastern districts, where new 
and extensive plantations were now to be formed on soils and 
in situations in many instances by no means favorable to the 
cultivation, 500 plants were the prescribed allotment. 

The United States and Holland are the principal markets 
for Java coffee, and it is distinguished into pale yellow and 
brown, varieties which depend on the curing and the age of 
the commodity, and not on the modes of culture or any differ- 
ence in the plants which yield them. 

The pale coffee is the newest and lowest priced, the brown is 
the oldest and most esteemed. Coffee stored in Java loses the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 57 

first year 8^, the second, about 5^, and the third, about 2^, 
after which it continues stationary and assumes a brown color. 
This is the brown coffee of commerce. 

Recent scientific discoveries have shown that the improve- 
ment caused by keeping Java coffee is owing to the evapora- 
tion of the caffeic acid, which is the principle that imparts 
the harsh, bitter, and astringent taste, which cannot be disguis- 
ed. It is very much the same change that takes place in fine 
brands of wine, which acquire their rich, mellow flavors only 
by age. Old government Java coffee has always been highly 
prized by epicures. Although there is some shrinkage in weight 
caused by keeping coffee for a length of time, still the great 
improvement and increased value more than counterbalances 
this loss. By carefully examining pale and brown Java coffee, 
much difference will be found in the smell of the raw bean. 
There is a particular spicy aroma about brown Java that the 
pale varieties never acquire until age has mellowed and chang- 
ed their appearance. 

There appeared a few years ago a work bearing the title of 
" Max Havelaar ; or, the Coffee Auctions of the Dutch Trading 
Company." The author wrote under the pseudonym of Mul- 
tatuli ; he was an assistant resident of the Dutch government 
in Java. The book appeared in the form of a novel, and treated 
of the incredible extortions and tyranny of which the natives of 
the Dutch Indies, " that magnificent empire of Insulind, which 
winds about the equator like a garland of emeralds," are the 
victims ; and how he tried in vain, while still in the service of 
the government, to put an end to the cruel oppressions that 
happen every day in those countries. Many considered it an 
interesting and captivating work of fiction, but the author 
maintained that it contained nothing but facts, and the govern- 
ment was challenged to prove the substance of the work to be 
false ; but its truth has never been disputed. It proves that 
8* 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



58 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

what was written of the cruelties and sufferings of American 
slavery, as described in TJncle Tow! 8 Cahin^ are nothing in 
comparison to the sufferings from the system of forced labor in 
the Indies. It is full of eccentricities, and the characters in- 
troduced are original and amusing ; among others a Mr. Dry- 
stubble is described as the type of a Dutch coffee-broker, who 
knows all about coffee, and makes his life subservient to his 
vocation. It bears evidence throughout of having been written 
by a genius of that order which only appears at intervals, and 
it serves to throw some little light on the habits of the millions 
of natives who dwell in the islands of the Indian Ocean, where 
so large a portion of our supplies of coffee are obtained. 

Of late years there has been a growing desire to know more 
about the great coffee-producing districts in Java and Sumatra. 
The opening of the Pacific Kailroad and the successful opera- 
tion of the submarine cables have done much to bring about 
more frequent communication with these important countries. 
American merchants have not been slow in availing themselves 
of the advantages in becoming better acquainted with those 
who have established important houses in the East Indies, and 
the writer is particularly indebted to Mr. Charles Dunlop, of 
Singapore, and Mr. John Peet, of Batavia, for much valuable 
information concerning the cultivation of coffee. Both of these 
gentlemen recently visited this country, and from their exten- 
sive experience they were enabled to give to those interested in 
the importation of coffee many interesting details concerning 
the manners and customs of the natives, and how the great 
traffic with the interior was conducted by their respective 
houses for their foreign constituents. 

Not far from Ayar-Bangis is the port to which the coffee 
raised in the valley of Eau, in the interior, is brought down, 
to be hence shipped in praus to Padang, where it is placed 
in the government storehouses and sold at auction four times 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 59 

a year, viz., in March, June, September, and December. 
Natal, about twenty-five miles north of here, is the chief 
port to which is brought the valuable coffee raised in the 
fertile valley of Mandheling, of which port Elout is the 
capital. Mr. Bickmore refers to a portion of Sumatra 
where the Musi makes a great bend to the south-west and 
the path leads eastward over a gently rising elevation, 
on the top of which is a large and most thriving coffee- 
garden, and near by are rice-fields which yield abundantly. 
"This garden has been very lately planted, and yet all 
the trees that are old enough to bear are nearly loaded 
down with fruit. The rice-fields show that an abundance 
of food could be raised here, and the only thing that 
is wanting is people to do the work. The elevated sit- 
uation of this country makes it very healthy for for- 
eigners. If any one could obtain a grant of land here, 
and also the privilege of bringing a large number of 
Chinamen, he would certainly realize a fortune, for coffee 
can be here cultivated with little care; and rice, the 
staple article of food among that people, can be raised 
in any quantity. Such a privilege could not be obtained at 
present, but the liberal tendency of the government of the 
Netherlands in India promises that it may be, at no distant 
time in the future. Such an enterprise would not have 
the character of an experiment, for the facility with which 
coffee and rice can be grown has already been shown on 
this plantation, and the cost of transporting it to Padang 
or Palembang would be very light. Sumatra undoubtedly 
contains large quantities of gold, but the true source of 
her wealth is not the precious metal she possesses, but the 
cups of coffee she produces." 

Of Brazil, the popular idea seems to have been, that it 
is a place of mighty rivers and strange-looking mountains, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



60 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

earthquakes, anacondas, alligators, with luxuriant fruits and 
flowers, palms, with gayly plumaged birds and monkeys. 
But it is all this and much more besides, — for its climate 
is perpetual summer, and its scenery the most beautiful 
known even to tropical regions. The empire of Brazil, 
although stretching over a territory nearly equal to one- 
half of the entire South American Continent, with a 
soil unsurpassed by any other in the world, yet num- 
bers only about ten millions of inhabitants. Like most 
tropical countries, it does not evince the enterprise and 
energy so characteristic of the dwellers in higher lati- 
tudes. The Emperor, Dom Pedro, is, however, undoubtedly 
inspired with progressive ideas, although his subjects seem 
as decidedly opposed to them; an apathetic indifference to 
all kinds of innovation or improvement holds them spell- 
bound to antiquated usages and obsolete forms. With a 
Boil so fertile and a climate so genial, all that seems requisite 
is the enterprise of capitalists, and the application of the 
improved industrial arts, to render Brazil a centre of greatly 
increased and increasing commercial importance. The 
recent abolition of slavery by the Emperor in all Government 
or State works, by the substitution of free labor, is of itself 
a great advance in the right direction; and the ultimate 
extinction of slavery generally will be accomplished when the 
existing slaves shall have passed away, since their children 
are born free. When the swift railroad shall have wholly 
superseded the slow mule conveyance, commerce will pro- 
portionably increase, because capitalists and free labor will 
yield a more profitable return. Eio de Janeiro is distant from 
New York about four thousand eight hundred miles; that 
distance, however, might be virtually much reduced by the 
establishment of more frequent intercourse with it by 
steamers. Railroads are already in operation, to some extent, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 61 

under the sanction of the government; and there are others 
projected. But we have not spoken of the remarkable beauty 
of the city, and especially of the Bay of Eio de Janeiro, which 
for picturesque scenery has been thought by some to rival 
even the peerless Bay ,of Naples. The former, which is en- 
tered by a narrow rocky portal, spreads out into an immense 
harbor, or inland lake, extending a distance of some score 
of miles, from north to south. Passing the Sugar-loaf at 
the entrance of the bay, you catch a view of the vast expanse 
of water and the distant succession of mountain-peaks which 
enclose it, and which form a magnificent amphitheatre. 
They are called the Organ Mountains, from their seeming 
resemblance to the pipes of an organ. Their height 
averages from six to seven thousand feet. The name Eio 
de Janeiro, literally, river of January, which is really a 
misnomer, it being a bay, not a river, took its rise from 
the tradition that it was discovered in that month, which 
is to the dwellers in that clime the hottest of their year. 
In close proximity with the city is the celebrated Botanical 
Garden, called Bota Foga, which is rich in all kinds of 
rare exotics, including the banyan-tree, and has a splendid 
avenue of palms. 

Brazil, indeed, has been called the land of the Cocoa 
and the Palm; but it may with equal propriety be also 
designated the land of the coffee-tree; since, as we have 
already intimated, it is the great producing country whence 
we derive our principal supply of that essential to our 
domestic economy. 

CofPee, although a native of the Old World, has long been 
one of the most important staples of the New. Meyen states 
that he even found some coffee-trees growing wild in Brazil, 
not far from Rio Janeiro, in the woods of Corcovado. It is the 
great commercial staple of the empire of Brazil, which, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



62 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEI0U8 COUNTRIES. 

beyond comparison, is now the greatest coffee- producing country 
of the globe. Java is the next in order, and although the lat- 
ter does not yet contribute one-half the quantity of the former, 
yet it furnishes nearly three times as much as other markets. 
The United States alone imported from Brazil, in 1871, over 
two hundred million pounds of Rio coffee. (See Table.) 

The first coffee-tree in Brazil was planted in 1754, by 
Friar Yillaso, in the garden of the San Antonio Convent at 
Kio de Janeiro. Brazil was then governed by the Marquis 
de Lavradio, as Viceroy. The first fruits of the tree were 
presented to the Marquis, who distributed them among the 
planters, explaining to them the advantages of adding another 
valuable article of produce to the country ; but, strong in their 
prejudices in favor of sugar and indigo, few took any pains to 
cultivate it, and the progress of increase was so slow and 
gradual, that in 1808, when Don Joas VI. fled from Portugal 
to Kio de Janeiro, and soon after opened the port for foreign 
trade, the annual crop of coffee did not exceed 30,000 bags of 
160 pounds each. The increase until 1820 was very moderate, 
the crop then being about 100,000 bags. The high prices 
ruling in Europe, caused by the falling off in production and 
increase of consumption all over the world, stimulated the 
planters of Brazil to extend their cultivation of coffee, espe- 
cially as the price of sugar had declined, and indigo, from its 
inferior quality, became neglected ; also that much less capital 
was required for the cultivation of coffee. The importation of 
slaves at that time was great, prices low, and they were sold to 
planters on long credits, payment being received for them in 
produce. This enabled those of small means to buy estates. 
Crops being abundant, and favorable prices obtained, they 
were soon able to pay off their debts, and establish the custom 
of credit which was denied to sugar planters, as that staple 
became unprofitable when brought into competition with Cuba, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 63 

Porto Kico, and other sugar-producing countries. It is to be 
observed that while the cultivation of sugar was declining in 
Brazil, and coffee increasing and superseding it, in Cuba 
coffee was falling off rapidly and sugar annually increasing. 
We now find at the present time that there is hardly enough 
coffee raised in Cuba to supply the consumptive demand, 
and the importation of Java and Eio coffees has been found 
necessary to supply the increasing wants of the inhabitants of 
one of the principal producing countries of former times. It 
was not, however, until after the Haytian insurrection that coffee 
became an object of great cultivation and commerce in Brazil. 
In 1809 the first cargo, consisting of 1522 bags, was sent to 
Salem, in the United States, per ship Ma/rquis de Someruelaa^ 
and all the coffee raised in the empire in that year scarcely 
amounted to 30,000 sacks, while in the Brazilian financial year 
of 1871 there were exported over two million sacks. 

The great importance which coffee has acquired of late years 
as a staple of commerce, very naturally suggests the inquiry as 
to the best means of still f ui'ther promoting its culture. Since 
the sugar plantations of the West Indies have so largely super- 
seded those of coffee, attention has been directed to other geo- 
graphical points suited to its growth. Until the era of the 
French revolution, the cultivation of coffee could scarcely be 
said to have reached the South American continent ; till then 
it was in a great measure confined to Arabia and the Caribbean 
Archipelago. Its extreme scarcity during the Napoleonic wars 
enhanced its price so enormously, that on the first announce- 
ment of peace, in 1814, many coffee-plantations were formed on 
the Costa Firme of South America, along the Brazilian shores 
of that continent, and even on the southern coast of Africa. 
Not content, however, with the natural increase of the demand 
now so universally made for this important berry, France, 
England, and America seem to have entered into a friendly al- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



64 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE i:JT VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

liance in endeavoring to stimulate yet further the production 
by means of premiums for the most improved machinery and 
inventive skill devoted to its culture and preparation. 

The great coffee region is on the banks of the Kio Parahiba 
and in the province of San Paulo ; but every year it is more 
widely cultivated, and a considerable quantity is now grovm in 
provinces farther northward. It can be planted by burying' 
the seeds or berries (which are double), or by slips. The 
plants which have been taken from the nui^sery with balls of 
mould around their roots will bear fruit in two years ; those 
detached from the earth will not produce until the third year, 
and the majority of such shrubs die. In the province of San 
Paulo and the richest portions of Minas-Geraes one thousand 
trees will yield from 2,560 to 3,200 pounds ; in Kio de Janeiro, 
from 1,600 to 2,560. In some parts of San Paulo, one thousand 
trees have yielded 6,400 pounds; but this is rare. In the 
province of Kio de Janeiro, trees are generally cut down every 
j&fteen years ; there are some cafiers^ however, which continue 
to bear several years longer. -As a general rule they are not 
allowed to exceed eight feet in height, *so as to be in reach. 
There are three gatherings in the year, and the berries are 
spread out upon pavements, or level portion of ground (the 
terrene)^ whence they are taken when dry, and denuded of the 
hull by machinery, and afterward conveyed to market. 

In Brazil, coffee is planted in the following manner : " The 
fresh beans are sown generally in the shade of coffee-trees, and 
the little plants are taken up, with the earth about them, so 
soon as they have reached the height of twelve inches. They 
are so planted that the stems are from four to six feet apart. 
By cutting off the rankest shoots, the coffee-trees in plantations 
are prevented becoming more than twelve feet in height, that 
the fruit which ripens in the 20th, or even not till the 32d 
month after the transplantation, may be the more easily 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 



65 



plucked. After four or five years the crop is very good, and 
then one servant is kept for every 1,000 plants. The coffee- 
tree yields three crops annually, which furnish employment for 
almost the whole year. 




Digitized by 



Google 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

It may seem almost superfluous to devote a chapter to the 
discussion of the best method of making a cup of coffee ; but 
since more depends upon the manner in which it is made than 
is usually imagined, it may not be inappropriate to offer a few 
words upon the subject. 

"We propose, therefore, to allude briefly to the many modes 
which have been resorted to for preparing and making coffee, 
both at home and abroad. "While we do not deny the ad- 
vantages of many of the following methods, it is believed 
that the process of distillation, by the direct application of 
steam heat, as fully described in the closing remarks of 
this chapter, is eventually destined to be the universal favo- 
rite. First of all, before speaking of the manner of pre- 
paring the berry as a beverage, we will mention that the 
leaf of the coffee-plant is used in the Eastern Archipel- 
ago by the natives as a substitute for tea. They roast the 
leaves over a clear, smokeless fire, after which they are picked 
from the twigs, and when immersed in boiling water they form 
an agreeable drink. A few years ago the attention of the 
scientific world was drawn to this subject, in the first instance, 
by Brande, and subsequently by Ward, in his able papers 
published in the Singapore Free Press and elsewhere. He 
seems to claim for roasted coffee-leaves a value unsurpassed by 
the berry itself. " It was well known," he says, " that they had 
been long employed in Sumatra under the name of coffee-tea." 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 67 

That this preparation contains a considerable amount of the 
nutritious element of coffee is evident from the analysis ; but 
as the leaves can only be collected in a good state at the expense 
of the coffee-plant, it is doubtful whether the coffee produced 
by the berries be not, after all, the cheapest, as it certainly is 
the best. 

In Arabia we find the method of preparing and using coffee 
very interesting. Palgrave, in his recent work, gives full and 
entertaining descriptions of the manners and customs of the 
people and their great fondness for coffee. He thus describes 
an Arabian dwelling and their method of making coffee : — 

" The walls are colored in a rudely decorative way and sunk 
here and there into small triangular recesses, destined to the 
reception of books, lamps, and other such like objects. The 
roof of timber, and flat ; the floor strewed with fine clean sand, 
and garnished all around alongside of the walls with long strips 
of carpet, upon which cushions, covered with silk, are disposed 
at suitable intervals. In poorer dwellings felt rugs usually 
take the place of carpets. i 

"In one comer, that farthest removed from the door, stands a 
small fireplace or furnace, formed of a large square block of 
granite or some other hard stone ; this is hollowed inwardly into 
a deep funnel, open above, and communicating below with a 
small pipe-hole, through which the air passes, bellows-driven, to 
the lighted charcoal ; the water in the coffee-pot placed upon the 
funnel's mouth is thus readily brought to boil. This system of 
coffee furnaces is universal, and this corner of the dwelling or 
K^hawah^ as it is called, is considered the place of distinction, 
whence honor and coffee radiate by progressive degrees round 
the apartment; and hereabouts accordingly sits the master of 
the house himself, or the guests whom he especially delights to 
honor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



68 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

" On the broad edge of the furnace stands an ostentatious 
range of coffee-pots, varying in size and form ; some are very tall 
and slender, with several ornamented circles and mouldings in 
elegant relief. The number of these utensils is sometimes extra- 
vagantly great ; as many as a dozen at a time may be seen in a 
row by one fireside, though coffee-making requires only three at 
most. Five or six are considered to be the thing ; but when 
doubled it indicates the riches and munificence of the owner^ 
by implying the frequency of his guests and the large amount 
of coffee that he is in consequence obliged to have made for 
them. Behind sits a slave, whose name is generally a diminu- 
tive, in token of affection ; his occupation is to make and pour 
out the coffee. On entering, it is proper to say 'Bismillah,' 
i. ^., ^ in the name of God ; ' not to do so would be looked on 
as a bad augury alike for him who enters and for those within. 

"The guest then goes to the master of the house, each repeats 
once more his greetings, followed by set phrases of polite in- 
quiry. 

" Taking the honored post by the fireplace, an apologetical 
salutation is given to the slave on the one side and to his nearest 
neighbor on the other. The best cushions and newest-looking 
carpets have been prepared. Shoes or sandals are slipped off 
on the sand just before reaching the carpet; the riding-stick or 
wand, the inseparable companion of every true Arab, is to be 
retained in the hand, and will serve for playing with during the 
pauses of conversation. Without delay the slave begins the 
preparations for coffee, placing the largest of the coffee-pots, 
about two-thirds full of clear water, close by the edge of the 
glowing coal-pit, that its contents may become warm while 
other operations are in progress. Taking a dirty knotted rag 
out of a niche in the wall close by, and having untied it, he 
empties out a few handfuls of unroasted coffee, which are 



Digitized by LjOO^IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 69 

placed on a little trencher of platted grass, Vhen all blackened 
grains or other non-homologous substances are picked out. 
After much cleansing and shaking the grains are poured into 
a large open iron ladle, which is placed over the mouth of the 
funnel, stirring them carefully round and round till they 
crackle, redden, and smoke a little, but withdrawing them 
from the heat long before they turn black or chan-ed; after 
which they are put to cool a moment on the grass platter: 
Drawing between his trouserless legs a large stone mortar, with 
a pit large enough to admit the stone pestle, and pouring in 
the half -roasted berries, he proceeds to pound them with won- 
derful dexteritj", never missing a blow, till the beans are 
smashed, but not reduced to powder. After these operations, 
which are performed with much seriousness and deliberation, 
a smaller cofFee-pot is taken in hand, which he fills more than 
half with hot water from the larger vessel, and, shaking the 
pounded coffee into it, sets it on the fire to boil, occasionally 
stirring it with a small stick as the water rises, to check ebul- 
lition and prevent overflowing. Nor is the boiling stage to 
be long or vehement; on the contrary, it should be as light 
as possible. In the interim he takes out of another rag-knot 
a few aromatic seeds called heyl, an Indian product, or a 
little saffron, and, after slightly pounding these ingredients, 
throws them into the simmering coffee to improve its flavor, 
for such an additional spicing is held indispensable in Arabia. 
Sugar would be a totally unheard-of profanation. Last of all, 
he strains off the liquor through some fibres of the inner palm- 
bark, placed for that purpose in the jug-spout, and gets ready 
the tray of delicate parti-colored grass, and the small coffee- 
cups ready for pouring out. All the preliminaries have taken 
up a good half -hour. Meantime the host and his friends have 
become engaged in active conversation, while the silver deco- 
rated swords proclaim the importance of the family who are 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



70 METHODS OF MAKING COFFER 

assembled ; presently a large wooden bowl full of dates, with a 
cup of melted butter in the midst of the heap, is presented ; the 
host says, ' Semmoo,' literally, ^ pronounce the name,' of God 
understood ; this means, ' Set to work at it.' Every one picks 
out a date or two from the juicy mass, dips them into the but- 
ter, and thus goes on eating till he has had enough. The slave 
now begins his round, the coffee-pot in one hand, the tray and 
cups on the other. The first pouring out he Tnust drink him- 
self, by way of a practical assurance that there is no ' death in 
the pot ; ' the guests are next served, beginning with those next 
the honorable fireside ; the master of the house receives his 
cup last of all. To refuse would be a positive and unpardon- 
able insult ; but one has not much to swallow at a time, for the 
coffee-cups, or ^finjans,' are about the size of a large egg-shell 
at most, and are never more than half filled. This is considered 
essential to good-breeding, and a brimmer would here imply 
exactly the reverse of what it does in Europe. 

^' Be this as it may, ' Fill the cup for your enemy ' is an adage 
common to all Arabs. The beverage itself is singularly aroma- 
tic and refreshing, a real tonic. When the slave presents you 
with a cup, he never fails to accompany it with a ' Semm,' ^ Say 
the name of God,' nor must you take it without answering 
^Bismillah.' 

" When all have been thus served, a second round is poured 
out, but in inverse order, for the host this time drinks first and 
the guests last. On special occasions, a first reception for in- 
stance, the ruddy liquor is a third time handed round ; nay, a 
fourth cup is sometimes added. But all these put together do 
not come up to one-fourth of what a . European imbibes in a 
single draught at breakfast." 

With regard to the making of coffee, there is no doubt that 
the Turkish method of pounding the 'coffee in a mortar is 
much superior to grinding it in a mill, as is usual with us. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 71 

The fondness for coffee in Turkey is shown by the constant 
use of the beverage on all occasions, and its exhilarating qual- 
ities are nowhere more highly appreciated. 

The great luxury of the Turkish bath — ^nov no longer an ex- 
clusive Oriental custom, since its general introduction in this 
country and Europe — has one feature in the Orient that has not 
elsewhere been fully introduced. There the bather, after the 
fatigues of the bath, is conducted into a luxurious apartment, 
where comfortable divans and soft pillows invite him to tarry, 
and enjoy the " rest after toil," the dolcefar niente^ the " sweet 
do nothing." Presently attendants enter bearing fragrant cof- 
fee served in delicate little china cups, which further adds 
to the rest and repose from all care, and at once fills the recip- 
ient with delight. "We need but to introduce this Eastern cus- 
tom after bathing, for coffee, as already stated, is a stimulant 
which, imlike wine, does not enervate or excite the system. 

The Turks drink their coffee very hot and strong, and without 
sugar. They occasionally use spices with it, such as bruised 
cloves, or aniseed, or a drop of the essence of amber. But after 
either method, the process recommended by M. Soyer may be 
advantageously adopted ; namely, " Put two ounces of ground 
coffee into a stew-pan, which set upon the fire, stirring the 
coffee round with a spoon until quite hot, then pour over a pint 
of boiling water; cover over closely for five minutes, pass it 
through a cloth, warm again, and serve." The chemist La- 
place explained to Napoleon the results of various methods of 
manipulation. " How is it, sir," said the Emperor, " that a glass 
of water in which I melt a lump of sugar always appears to me 
to be superior in taste to one in which I put the same quantity 
of powdered sugar?" — "Sire," said the sage, "there exist 
three substances whose elements are precisely the same ; name- 
ly, sugar, gum, and starch. They only differ under certain 
conditions, the secret of which Nature has reserved to herself ; " 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



72 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

and I believe that it is possible that, by the collision caused by 
the pestle, some of the portions of the sugar pass into the con- 
dition of gum or starch, and thence arises the result which has 
been observed. 

In preparing the berry, connoisseurs in coffee will, before 
roasting, wash the grains and dry them on a pan, placed near 
the fire or in a cool oven. While roasting they will stir 
them constantly, that all may be equally brown. Some persons 
think the aroma improved when the heat is not greater than is 
sufficient to impart a light brown color to the bean; others 
prefer the coffee roasted to a dark brown; in adopting the 
latter, care should be used to avoid burning it. To produce the 
beverage in perfection, it is necessary to employ the best 
materials in its preparation,— ;^^5A roasted and fresh ground. 
"With respect to quantity, at least one ounce of coffee should be 
used to make three ordinary-sized cupfuls. The coffee-pot should 
be heated before putting in the coffee, which heating may be done 
by means of a little boiling water. When so prepared, the 
boiling water should be poured over the ground coffee, and not, 
as is commonly done, put in first. When a percolator is not 
used, the liquor should be well stirred up several times before 
finally covering it up to settle for use. 

Liebig, after describing its properties and the various 
methods of preparing the beverage, recommends the follow- 
ing process, which seems among the best hitherto proposed ; 
namely, that three-fourths of the coffee to be used be boiled, 
and the other fourth infused, the results being mixed. By this 
means both strength and fiavor are insured. To preserve the 
flavor of the ground coffee he recommends that the powder 
should be wetted with a syrup of sugar, and then covered with 
powdered sugar. The volatile parts of the coffee are thus pre- 
vented from escaping. When coffee has been roasted and is 
not to be immediately used, it should be placed in a dry situa- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 73 

tion, and excluded from the atmosphere as soon as possible, 
since it absorbs moisture from the air by its hygrometric power, 
and loses its flavor by keeping. To clarify coffee, the French 
sometimes sprinkle on the surface of the coffee half a cup of 
cold water, which, from its greater gravity, descends and carries 
the sediment with it. 

The French, who are celebrated for their coffee-making, use 
various kinds in combination, such as the following: Java, 
Mocha, Eio, and Maracaibo. These coffees are so delicately and 
in such due proportions mixed, as to produce a bouquet of aro- 
matic flavors. They sometimes add a little liqueur^ to flatter 
an epicurean palate. 

CafS-aU'lait — that is, three parts of milk to one of coffee — ^is, 
according to Dr. Doran, " the proper thing for breakfast ; but 
the addition of milk to that taken after dinner is a cruelty to 
the stomach." Voltaire's favorite beverage was '^ chooa^^ — a 
mixture of coffee (with milk) and chocolate. Napoleon, it is 
said, was fond of this mixture. 

The " cafe noir " of the French is coffee made strong with 
water only. " Caf^-au-lait " must not be made by boiling coffee 
and milk together, as milk is not proper to extract the essential 
properties of the coffee, and coffee must first be made as " caf ^ 
noir," only stronger. As much of this coffee is poured into the 
cup as is required, and the cup is then filled up with boiled 
milk. Cafd d la creme is made by adding boiled cream to 
strong clear coffee and heating them together. 

CafS glace is made by adding one egg to every six cups of 
cafS noir. Sweeten, and put in cream. When thoroughly 
mixed, place in a proper cooler surrounded with ice. It should 
be fi'ozen to the consistency of rich thick cream, and, if properly 
made, will be found a delicious and refreshing draught. 

One of the most universal methods of making coffee is to put 
the fresh-ground coffee into a coffee-pot with a sufficient quan- 
4 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



74 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

tity of water, which is set on the fire until it boils, and the cof- 
fee, if allowed time, will settle of itself — a mode adapted to 
early risers and those in no hurry for breakfast. 

" If you want to improve your understanding, drink coffee," 
said Sydney Smith. Sir James Mackintosh professes that he 
believed the difference between one man and another was pro- 
duced by the quantity of coffee he drank I * 

Pope was among confirmed coffee-drinkers ; often calling up 
his servant in the night to prepare a cup of it for him. It was 
the custom in his day to grind and prepare it upon the table, of 
which practice he gives us the following details in verse : — 

" For lo ! the board with cup and spoons is crpwnod, 
The berries crackle, and the miU turns round ; 
On shining altars of Japan they raise 
The silyer lamp ; the fiery spirits blaze. 
From silver spouts the grateful liquors glide. 
While China's earth receives the smoldng tide. 
At once they g^tify their sense and taste, 
And frequent cups prolong the rich repast. 
Coffee ! — which makes the politician wise, 
And see through aU things with his half -shut eyes ! " 

Taken in moderation, especially if combined with sugar and 
milk, coffee is unquestionably the most wholesome beverage 
known. In a medical point of view, it has been regarded as a 
cerebral stimulant and anti-soporific, and an antidote to opium. 
As a medicine, it should be strong, and taken lukewarm. 

Coffee, when taken early in the morning before rising, some- 
times alleviates an attack of asthma or coughing, and thus 
proves of great service to many sufferers. Still it must not be 
forgotten that it is a stimulant, and if taken too strong, or in 
too great quantities, may give rise to nervous complaints ; and 
although for a time an aid to digestion, yet, if too freely in- 
dulged in, it will weaken the sensibility of the stomach and 

* The converse of the proposition would bear rather hard upon those persons 
whose constitutional proclivities prevent their use of the beverage altogether. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 75 

derange its functions. Diluents of any kind in large quantities 
relax the coats of that organ, and impair its efficiency. Notwith- 
standing all objections alleged against the use of this favorite 
exotic, it is constantly and extensively growing in public esteem 
as an exhilarating drink, possessing the good qualities of wine 
without any of its bad consequences. It is indeed a sign of the 
good time coming, that there have been opened in most of the 
great cities of Europe such numerous coffee-houses, where, in- 
stead of the dram-shop, operatives may regale themselves with- 
out becoming inebriates. Even in its early days, an old writer 
of the seventeenth century claimed for the beverage this virtue, 
when he thus quaintly descants upon its various claims: 
" Surely it must needs be salutif erous, because so many sagacious 
and the wittiest sort of nations use it so much. But besides the 
exsiccant quality, it tends to dry up the crudities of the stomach, 
as also to comfort the brain, to f ortiiie the sight with its steeme, 
and 'tis found already that this coffee-drink has caused a greater 
sobriety among the nations. For whereas formerly apprentices 
and clerks, with others, used to take their morning's draught in 
ale, beer, or win€, which by the dizziness they cause in the 
brain, make many unfit for businesse, they use now to play the 
good-f ellowes in this wakefull and civill drinke." 

The roasting of coffee in the best manner requires great 
nicety, since much of the quality of the beverage depends upon 
the operation. It is usually roasted in a hollow cylinder, made 
of perforated sheet iron, which is kept turning over a brisk fire, 
to prevent any part from being more heated than another, and 
when the coffee has assumed a deep cinnamon color, and an 
oily appearance, and the peculiar fragrance of roasted coffee 
is perceived to be sufficiently strong, it should be taken from 
the fire, well shaken, and suffered to cool. Not more than half 
a pound of coffee should be roasted at once for domestic use ; 
for if the quantity is greater, it becomes impossible to regulate 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



76 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

the heat in such a manner as to secure a good result. If the 
heat be so violent as to burn any part, the whole will be materi- 
ally injured. The coffee-roaster should never be filled above 
one-third ; for by roasting, the bulk of coffee is nearly doubled, 
and suflScient space ought to remain to allow of turning the 
coffee readily, that every part may be equally exposed to the heat. 

In Italy they roast coffee in small quantities, very frequently 
in one of the thin flasks of glass used for oil, which answer ex- 
tremely well if the roasting is performed over a charcoal fire, 
and the coffee shaken and turned often. The non-conducting 
power of the glass is thought to give this material an advantage 
over metal, as being less liable to bum ; added to which, the 
progress of the roasting can be better watched. One of these 
flasks will roast somewhat less than a quarter of a pound at a 
time; and it is, perhaps, worth while mentioning that this 
mode is often found useful to the traveller. 

The grinding of coffee is performed by iron mills. A small 
portable mill is commonly used, but it is insuflScient for the 
purposes of a large household, as it holds but a comparatively 
small quantity. When larger quantities are required in a 
family, a coffee-mill of a larger kind, requiring less labor, 
is fi^ed against the wall; the construction of the mill is 
about the same in both instances, and being familiar to most 
persons, need not be described. This is, indeed, an indispen- 
sable machine in domestic economy, as the goodness of the cof- 
fee depends much upon its being fresh-ground. Coffee ought 
to be ground sufficiently fine, in order that the water may be 
enabled to penetrate to the centre of the particles and extract 
those parts upon which the valuable qualities of the beverage 
depend. When coffee is very highly roasted, so as to develop 
the greatest quantity of bitter aroma without burning, it is ren- 
dered more difficult to grind, for it then acquires an oily surface, 
which causes the kernels to slip over each other, and hence they 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 77 

are not caught so readily by the teeth of the mill; but the 
powder, when obtained, is finer than if the coffee had been less 
roasted, because it is rendered more friable. 

Eoasted coffee, as before stated, loses much of its flavor 
by exposure to the air; on the other hand, while raw 
it not only does not lose its flavor, but actually improves by 
keeping. That the fine aromatic flavor of good coffee, which 
is one of its chief recommendations, depends upon some prin- 
ciple that is extremely volatile, a little observation will render 
evident. If a cup of the best coffee be placed upon a table 
boiling hot, it will fill the room with its fragrance ; but the 
coffee, when warmed again after being cold, will be foimd to 
have lost most of its fiavor. The fragrance diffused through the 
air is a sure indication in what manner it was dissipated ; and 
therefore it is evident that in preparing coffee every possible 
endeavor should be made to preserve this precious part of the 
beverage. To have coffee in perfection, it should be roasted 
and ground just before it is to be used, and more should not be 
ground at a time than is wanted for immediate use ; or if it be 
necessary to grind more, it should be kept close from the air. 
The best method of preparing a beverage from coffee, or, as it 
is termed, making coffee^ is a subject that has received a good 
deal of attention. 

To clear coffee rapidly, a variety of substances are used; 
namely, white of eggs, isinglass, skins of eels or soles, hartshorn 
shavings, etc., for it is found that coffee not cleared has always 
an unpleasant bitter taste. In order that the clearing sub- 
stances may produce their full effect, they should be dissolved 
before mixing with the coffee. In this manner, with good mate- 
rials in sufficient quantity, and proper care, excellent coffee may 
be made, and most of the valuable properties of the coffee ex- 
tracted. 

The difficulty of making and clearing coffee has led to a 



. Digitized by LjOOQIC 



78 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

great variety of inventions, one of the most noted being Count 
Kumford's percolator, in which the ground coffee is compressed 
between two metallic diaphragms, so that the boiling water 
shall percolate slowly through the mass. There is also the 
Fountain coffee-maker, in which a body of steam, passing up- 
wards through the body of ground coffee, carries over the infu- 
sion, which collects in a chamber. 

Another apparatus is the pneumatic filter, by which the per- 
colation of the coffee is expedited and rendered more complete. 

Having thus shown the various methods and principles by 
which coffee is prepared in different countries, it may not be in- 
appropriate to add that Yankee ingenuity has not been idle in 
trying to solve the problem as to how this beverage can best be 
made. There have been about one hundred and seventy-five 
patents granted by the United States Patent Office for coffee- 
pots alone, embracing every possible contrivance by which the 
bean can be prepared as a beverage ; and while so many are 
seeking this " arcanum," we find some of the devices both curious 
and ingenious. There is a patent granted for placing a furnace 
m the coffee-pot; another with curious strainers and attach- 
ments to receive the grounds; again another with arrange- 
ments to prevent lateral tipping when tilting the coffee-pot; 
patents for strainers connected with springs attached to the noz- 
zle ; others with hot-water jackets, and some with condensers 
in the lids to catch the aroma ; some to hold both coffee and 
tea, to be made at the same time in different compartments ; 
— and so the list could be continued at length, showing the 
claims of the many inventive geniuses who have given their 
attention to this subject. 

We will conclude by referring to one of the latest patents, 
which, if judged from its success and the praises it has received 
from those who have used it, is destined to become the general 
economizer and only true method of preparing coffee. Its con- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 79 

struction is very simple, consisting of an outer shell or reser- 
voir enclosing a plain coffee-pot, containing the coffee with 
the required quantity of cold water. This is placed over a pan 
or receiver which boils water and generates steam. The steam 
envelopes and completely surrounds the inner pot containing 
the coffee and water, which gradually becomes heated, but never 
hoilSj thus perfectly distilling the coffee. By this process the 
coffee does not become black, bitter, or stale, and can be served 
at any time, with all the rich, oily, and fragrant aroma of the 
bean. As the inner pot is air-tight, coffee made in this way is 
stronger and incomparably superior in flavor to that produced 
by any other method. Nothing is lost in evaporation nor at- 
mospheric action; all the fine aroma and food properties are 
held in solution, and the coffee is extracted by the action of 
steam surrounding every part of the vessel containing the fluid. 
The bitter taste other methods produce and the oxidation of 
the acids are avoided, and the coffee always remains palatable 
and agreeable to the taste. This process requires no substance 
of any kind to clear the coffee ; the grounds settle at the bottom 
by their own gravity, after the rich properties of the coffee are 
fully distilled. It is perfectly pure, and is poured from the 
coffee-pot as clear as amber, and resembling wine. 

The infusion is superior as a beverage to that made by any 
other method yet discovered, besides consuming less coffee ; and 
as it is a simple and economical utensil, coming within the 
means of all who use coffee, it has the further advantage of hav- 
ing no complicated mechanism likely to get out of order, and 
difficult to keep clean. If the advantages really existing in the 
last-mentioned system are once understood, the beneflts reaped 
by all the consumers of pure coffee throughout the world will 
more than realize the most sanguine hopes of philanthropy in 
extending the universal use of the beverage so palatable to the 
rich, so healthful and invigorating to the laboring classes. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS. 

CoFFEB has been analyzed by various chemists, but the results 
of their analyses are far from being uniform. Kaw coffee con- 
tains a yellowish-brown transparent extract, to which the name 
of caffeine has been given, and which constitutes the characteris- 
tic portion of coffee. Coffee also contains a resinous matter, an 
oil, or fatty substance, an aromatic principle, and some tannin and 
gallic acid. Six pounds of coffee give ninety grains of caffeine, 
a proximate principle remarkable for containing 21.54 per cent, 
of nitrogen, which is a larger quantity than is found in most 
other vegetables ; it is a crystallizable salt, of a bitter taste, pro- 
ducing an exhilarating effect when taken in four or five grains, 
such as is felt when good coffee is drunk. It was first discovered 
by Eunge in 1820, and it is considered by Liebig as nearly iden- 
tical, if not quite so, with theine^ a principle existing in tea. 

Haw coffee contains about five per cent, of an astringent acid, 
— the caffeine, or coffee tonic, which does not blacken a solu- 
tion of iron, as the infusion of tea does, but renders it green, 
and does not precipitate solutions of gelatine. This acid is 
changed to some extent during the roasting, but still retains a 
portion of its astringent properties, and contributes in some de- 
gree to the effects which the infusion of coffee produces upon 
the system. 

But the coffee-bean contains about thirteen per cent, of nutri- 
tious gluten, which, as in the case of tea, is very sparingly dis- 
solved by boiling water, and is usually thrown away in the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 81 

insoluble dregs of the coffee. Among some of the Eastern 
nations the custom prevails of drinking the grounds along with 
the infusion of the coffee ; in these cases the full benefit is ob- 
tained from all the positively nutritive matter which the roasted 
coffee contains. 

It has been found that 1,000 grains of the wood, leaves, and 
twigs of the coffee-tree yielded 33 grains of ashes, or 3.300 per 
cent. The ashes consist of potass, lime, alumina, and iron in 
the state of carbonates, sulphates, muriates, and phosphates, 
and a small portion of silica. According to Liebig's classifica- 
tion of plants, the coffee-tree falls imder the description of 
those noted for their preponderance of lime. Thus the pro- 
portions in the coffee-tree are — 

Lime salts 77 

Potass salts 20 

Silica 3 

100 

Coffee contains a considerable quantity of fixed oil and an 
astringent acid allied to the tannic. The following is the aver- 
age composition of raw coffee : — 

Woody matter 34 

Water 12 

Fatty matter 13 

Gum, sugar, and Gaffeic acid 18 

Gaffeine 2 

Azotized matter analogous to legumin 13 

Saline matter, essential oils, etc 8 

100 
It may be interesting to mention among the curiosities of 
chemistry, that a most magnificent purple dye can be prepared 
from the alkaloid of coffee. It is analogous to the dye which 
produced the famous Tyrian purple, unsurpassed for its per- 
fection and permanence of tint. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



82 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

A higher aroma would make the inferior varieties of Ceylon, 
Jamaica, and Brazilian coffees nearly equal in value to the finest 
Javas ; and if the oil could be bought for the purpose of im- 
parting this flavor, it would be worth in the market as much as 
five hundred dollars an ounce. How it comes — ^by what slow 
chemical change within the bean, that causes coffee of the most 
inferior quality so to ripen by keeping as to become equal to 
Mocha — ^we do not yet know. 

Coffee is supposed to owe its refreshing character to this 
peculiar chemical principle, Cccfeme. This substance belongs 
to the class of azotized basic bodies, and from its presence in 
two substances so dissimilar as tea and coffee, both of which 
are in such general use all over the world, it may be supposed 
to be of no small importance to our animal economy. Liebig 
has shown that the composition of caffeine is closely related 
to that of various animal products, and that there is reason 
to believe that it may assist in the secretion of bile. A pound 
of coffee yields by sublimation, on an average, about 15 grains 
of caffeine. It may also be obtained from an infusion of 
raw coffee, when certain impurities have been removed by 
subacetate of lead, and the excess of lead by sulphuretted 
hydrogen. It forms white silky crystals, which are sparingly 
soluble in cold water. It has a mild, bitter taste. The pe- 
culiarly refreshing and stimulating properties of coffee are 
developed in the roasting. It has been tested that coffee 
roasted to a pale brown color loses 12.3 per cent.; to a 
chestnut brown, 18.5 per cent. ; and to a black, 23.7 per cent. 

The chemical changes which heat produces in coffee, accord- 
ing to recent authorities, may thus be epitomized : the brown 
hitter substance and the aromatic principle are produced by the 
decomposition of that part of the coffee-bean which is soluble 
in water; and a large part of the caffeine disappears during 
the roasting. It is said that this (caffeine) is carried away with 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFER 83 

the volatile products generated in the operation. By roasting 
coffee in an apparatus which allows of the recovery of all the 
volatile products, it has been ascertained that if it be car- 
ried away with the volatile products, it can only be in such 
small quantity as to be inappreciable by weight, and cannot ex- 
plain the considerable loss which takes place during roasting, 
carefully performed. The loss is experimentally found to 
equal nearly one-half of the caffeine originally existing in the 
coffee. M. Wurtzf has demonstrated that the lost caffeine has 
been transformed into a volatile base methylamine, or methyl- 
ammonia (C^ Hj N). The following are the facts which prove 
the change of caffeine into methylamine during coffee-roasting. 
" If pure caffeine be submitted to the action of heat, and the 
vapor be carried through a tube heated to about 300° Centi- 
grade (about the heat which is necessary for roasting), and filled 
with fragments of pumice-stone, which delay the passage of 
the vaporized matters, only a feeble decomposition occurs ; the 
greater part remains unchanged, and the little that is decom- 
posed gives no characteristic product except cyanogen. This 
experiment tends to prove that it is not the caffeine which 
furnishes the volatile alkaloid existing in roasted coffee. But a 
very different result is obtained if, instead of acting on free 
caffeine, we experiment on caffeine in analogous circumstances 
to those in which it exists in green coffee. It is easy to extract 
the alkaloid from roasted coffee by distilling the extract of cof- 
fee, made with cold water ^ with a weak base, such as lime. 
The addition of this alkali to an infusion of coffee immediately 
liberates the methylamine, the special ammoniacal odor of 
which is readily perceptible." 

In tea the proportion of volatile oil amounts to about one 
pound in a hundred of the dried leaf, but in roasted coffee it 
rarely amounts to more than one in fifty thousand I And yet 
on the different proportions of this oil which they severally 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



84 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

contain, the aroma and the consequent estimation in the market 
of the diflFerent varieties of coffee in a great measure depend. 

The action of coffee on the human system is due chiefly to 
the empyreumatic oil, and consequently is greatest when roast- 
ed ; but its extractive and also nitrogenous principle, caffeine, 
must exert considerable influence upon the organs of digestion. 
" Coffee acts powerfully and peculiarly on the ganglionic system 
of nerves and their ramifications, and all the organs which are 
supplied by them. It elevates the vitality of these nerves, and 
quickens all their actions. The brain is also, in a similar man- 
ner, acted upon by it ; and hence the increased sensibility and 
energy of that organ during the use of coffee, and the removal 
of all sense of fatigue and disposition to sleep. Upon this de- 
pends, in addition to its local influence upon the organs of diges- 
tion, the utility of coffee in counteracting the effects of narcotic 
poisons, such as opium or belladonna ; and the favor it has 
found among literary persons, from enabling them to carry on 
their studies through the midnight hours without feeling op- 
pressed by sleepiness. It also excites the vascular system, and 
renders more powerful the contractions of all the muscles, both 
voluntary and involuntary." Its physiological effects upon 
the system, as far as they have been investigated, appear to be, 
that while it makes the brain more active, it soothes the body 
generally, makes the change and waste of matter slower and 
the demand for food consequently less. According to a recent 
authority, over seventeen hundred separate works have been 
published on that prevalent malady — ^indigestion — with specifics 
for its cure : notwithstanding this formidable array of specifics 
and prescriptions, we are backed by professional authority 
when we venture to suggest yet one more, to wit — a cup of 
good coffee, without the admixture of either milk or sugar. It 
is occasionally useful in relieving headache, especially the form 
called nervous. It has also been employed as a febrifuge in 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 85 

intermittente, as a stomachic in some forms of dyspepsia, and as 
a stimulant to the cerebro-spinal system in some nervous dis- 
orders. Flayer, Percival, and others have used it in spasmodic 
asthma ; and Laennec says: " I have myself seen several cases in 
which coffee was really useful. The immoderate use of coffee, 
on the other hand, is said to produce nervous symptoms, such 
as anxiety, tremor, disordered vision, palpitation, and feverish- 
ness." We find the following remarks regarding the chemical 
properties of caffeine : " Mulder gave a grain of it to a rabbit ; 
the animal ate but little the next day, and aborted the day after. 
Liebig has suggested that it probably contributes to the forma- 
tion of taurine, the nitrogenized constituent of bile. Accord- 
ing to Lehmann, caffeine in doses of from two to ten grains 
causes violent excitement of the vascular and nervous systems, 
palpitations of the heart, and often intermission of pulse, sleep- 
lessness, and delirium." i 

Dr. Hassall thus describes the structure of the coffee-seed : 
" Two parts are to be discriminated in the coffee-berry, and the 
testa or investment by. which it is surrounded. The berry, 
previous to roasting, and even after it has been soaked for a 
long time in water, is hard and tough, in which respect it dif- 
fers from all those substances which enter into the adulteration 
of coffee, and which become softened by immersion in cold 
water. The hardness is even retained subsequently to the char- 
ring, and is so great, that by this character alone the fragments 
of the ground and roasted coffee-berry may be readily distin- 
guished from those of chiccory. It consists of an assemblage of 
vesicles or cells of an angular form, which adhere so firmly to- 
gether that they break up into pieces rather than separate into 
distinct and perfect cells. The cavities of the cells include, 
in the form of little drops, a considerable quantity of aromatic 
volatile oil, on the presence of which the fragrance, and many 
of the active piinciples of the berry mainly depend. The testa. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



86 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

or investing membrane, presents a structure very different from 
that of the substance of the berry itself, and when once seen it 
cannot be confounded with any other tissue which has yet been 
observed entering into the adulteration of coffee; it is made up 
principally of elongated and adherent cells, forming a single 
layer, and having oblique markings upon their surfaces ; these 
cells rest upon another thin membrane which presents an indis- 
tinct fibrous structure." 

The seeds, improperly called berries, of Arabia or Mocha 
coffee are small, of a dark yellow color ; those of Java and the 
East Indies are larger, and of a paler yellow; while those of 
the West Indies and Brazil possess a bluish or greenish- 
gray tint. The dried fruits or berries are rarely imported; 
occasionally the seeds contained in their endocarp or husks, 
however, are met with in commerce. 

The practice of adulterating food originates with dishonest 
men, who take this means of underselling their honest neigh- 
bors in the same business ; and it is to the interest of all who 
prize integrity and fair dealing, to lend their aid in suppress- 
ing frauds which so generally affect the public health. Foreign 
substances, such as we describe, are mixed with coffee to in- 
crease the weight and bulk and reduce the cost, and every 
pound is a direct damage to consumers, who fail to realize the 
healthful effects of pure coffee. 

There are few articles of consumption which have been 
subjected to more extensive adulteration than coffee. The 
most prevalent adulteration is that of chiccory; and it has 
frequently been urged in extenuation of the fraud that chiccory 
improves the flavor of coffee ; but this opinion is not held by 
most chemists. Persons who have had their taste vitiated 
by using the two in combination, may even prefer it to pure 
coffee ; but, as Dr. Hassall remarks, " had they the opportunity 
of partaking of well-prepared and unadulterated coffee, they 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEK 87 

would not be long before they acknowledged the infinite 
superiority of the genuine beverage even as a matter of taste.'' 

If chiccory were an improvement when mixed with coffee, it 
ought to be good by itself ; but any one who has tasted the bit- 
ter, muddy, and nauseating infusion of this root is aware that 
only when mixed and partially disguised with coffee can it be 
drunk at all ; between the two articles there is no analogy what- 
ever; besides, chiccory has properties of its own which are de- 
cidedly injurious ; when taken only in moderate quantities 
chiccory is not at first injurious to health, but by its prolonged 
and frequent use it produces heartburn, cramps, loss of appe- 
tite, acidity in the mouth, and cloudiness of the senses. It is 
the opinion of the eminent oculist. Professor Beer, of Vienna, 
that the continual use of chiccory seriously affects the nervous 
system, and gives rise to blindness, without any visible defect 
in the eyes except an immovable pupil. 

The ground coffee sold by the grocers is to a great extent 
adulterated. The principal substances used for this purpose 
are roasted chiccory and roasted beans, peas, and corn. This 
fraud may readily be detected as follows: — "A spoonful of 
pure coffee, placed gently on the surface of a glass of cold 
water, will float for some time, and scarcely color the liquid ; 
if it contains chiccory, it will rapidly absorb the water, and, 
sinking to the bottom of the glass, communicate a deep 
reddish-brown tint as it falls. Another method of applying 
this test is by expertly shaking a spoonful of the suspected 
coffee with a wine-glassful of cold water, and then placing the 
glass upon the table. If it is pure it will rise to the surface, 
and scarcely color the liquid ; but if chiccory is present it will 
sink to the bottom, and the water will be tinged of a deep red 
as before. Eoasted com, beans, etc., may be detected by the 
cold decoction striking a blue color with tincture of iodine. 
Pure coffee is merely deepened a little in color by this sub- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



88 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

stance. Under the microscope, the presence of chiccory may be 
readily detected by the size, form, and ready separation of the 
cells of the cellular tissue, and by the presence and abundance 
of the pitted tissue or dotted ducts, and vascular tissue or 
spiral vessels. Roasted com, and other amylaceous substances, 
may also be detected in the same way, by the peculiar size and 
character of their starch-grains." 

Chiccory is a wild endive, which is now extensively cultivated 
in Germany, France, Belgium, and some parts.of England and 
the United States. Even chiccory itself is sometimes adultera- 
ted ; as we learn from Johnston, who says : " The coflPee-dealer 
adulterates his coffee with chiccory, to increase his profits ; the 
chiccory-maker adulterates his chiccory with Yenetian red, to 
please the eye of the coffee-dealer ; and, lastly, the Venetian 
red manufacturer grinds up his color with brick-dust, that by 
his greater cheapness, and the variety of shades he offers, he 
may secure the patronage of the trade in chiccory 1 " After 
this little expose^ who will not be disposed to prize a gua- 
ranteed cup of pure coffee ? Pure coffee, indeed, is a rarity. 
The so-called "Coffee extract" is almost universally found 
to be nothing but caramel — ^bumt sugar mixed with chiccory 
and a little Eio coflFee : and this fabrication is the coffee one 
meets with usually on board steamboats or at railroad stations. 
The Germans use acorns ground up for coffee, and do not 
object to the drink. The roasted seeds of the water-iris are 
said to approach very closely in flavor to coffee itself. Sub- 
stances mixed with coffee, or substitutes for the berry 
altogether, have been tried with various degrees of success. 
Roasted acorns, when ground, have been made to pass for it. 
The infusion of the lupin does duty for it among the peasantry 
of Flanders ; also that of roasted rye, one of the nearest 
counterfeits of coffee ; in the United States another adultera- 
tion is dandelion, which possesses also a sopoiific nature. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 89 

There are other substitutes for coffee besides roasted seeds of 
the water-iris : the chick-pea^ beans, rye and other grains, nuts, 
ahnonds, and even wheaten bread, the dried and roasted roots 
of the turnip, carrot, and asparagus. Also, horse-beans roasted 
with a little honey or sugar ; the nut of the sassafras-tree, or 
the wood cut into chips ; beet-root, sliced and dried in a kiln 
or oven ; and many more ; all of which, however, possess little 
or none of the exhilarating or medicinal properties of real 
coffee. 

Some years ago, it was scarcely possible to procure a 
sample of ground coffee that was not largely adulterated, 
no matter what the price paid for it; and in some instances 
the coffee, so-caUed, consisted almost entirely of chiccory. 
In 1850, a firm in Liverpool actually took out a patent for 
moulding chiccory into the shape of berries; they appear 
to have been induced to do so in consequence of the exis- 
tence of a Treasury minute, which did not allow the sale of 
chiccory mixed with coffee, without printing the fact on each 
package sold. It has been asserted that in France and other 
continental countries the use of chiccory is almost universal. 
This statement Hassall regards as incorrect. He says, "We 
found that in all the good hotels in France and Germany the 
coffee served up was genuine, and did not contain a particle of 
chiccory ; but that it was largely employed, either separately or 
mixed with coffee, by poor persons and amongst domestics, for 
the sake of economy, — chiccory costing less than half the price 
of coffee." The differences, chemical and physiological, which 
exist between the two articles are thus given: "Coffee is the 
seed of a plant, and it contains essential oil, or caffeone, caffeic 
acid, and a peculiar principle termed caffeine ; each of these 
constituents possesses different and highly important properties, 
upon which the value of coffee mainly depends. 

" Chiccory is the root of a plant belonging to the family of the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



90 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

dandelions. It contains no essential oil, tannic acid, or alkaloid 
analogous to that of coflPefe. The chief constituents of which it 
is made up when roasted are a little gum, sugar partly burned 
and reduced to caramel, coloring matter, and insoluble vege- 
table tissue." It is evident, therefore, that by the admixture of 
chiccory with coffee, the active properties of the latter are 
reduced, since between the two articles there is no chemical 
analogy whatever. The same authority also refers to this 
subject of adulteration of coffee with another article named 
coffina^ made and introduced, in 1851, into the English 
market. It was described as the seed of a Turkish plant, 
which was found to be highly nutritious. On subjecting it to 
examination with the microscope, it was ascertained to consist 
of the roasted seeds of some leguminous plant, probably a 
lentil. Of this article n6 less than eighty tons were offered for 
sale by a Scotch house at about $60 per ton ; that is, at about 
3 cents per lb. " On this single transaction the revenue would 
be defrauded of no less a sum than $22,200 and the public of 
at least four times that amount, namely, $90,000. The impor- 
tation of about 100 tons of lupin -seed from Egypt into 
Glasgow has led to the conjecture that this coffina was made 
from it — a conjecture, it is believed, correct." 

The adulteration of coffee in some cases alters and reduces 
so greatly the color and appearance of the article, as well as of 
the infusion made from it, that the use of coloring matters is fre- 
quently necessitated. One of these is burnt sugar, or sugar-house 
molasses, technically known in the trade as Black Jack. Another 
article, used sometimes to give increased color to adulterated 
ground coffee, is Venetian red, or some other analogous ferrugi- 
nous earth. The adulterations of coffee are altogether indefen- 
sible ; and notwithstanding their frequent exposure, both at home 
and abroad, they still to a great extent continue to be practised. 
Some years since, roasted com, principally rye, was largely 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 91 

sold, and employed to make a beverage which, by a fiction, was 
dignified by the name of coflPee; the chief argument, inde- 
pendent of price, urged in favor of it was its supposed 
nutritive properties. When it is recollected, however, that 
the starch of roasted rye is in part reduced to the condition 
of charcoal, it will at once be perceived that its nutritive 
qualities cannot be very great, and thxit a single mouthful of 
wholesome hread contains more nourishment than a dozen cwps 
of a leverage made from roasted rye. The adulteration of 
coffee by substances so cheap, and, for the purpose to which 
they are applied, worthless as these, is a gross fraud, requiring 
emphatic condemnation, and, when ascertained to be practised, 
meriting exposure and punishment. The following tests for 
the detection of adulterations in coffee have been suggested : 
"The means to be resorted to for this purpose are of three 
kinds: namely, certain physical characters and appearances 
presented by adulterated samples; the microscope; and 
chemistry. By the first, we ascertain in some cases the general 
fact whether the sample is adulterated or not; and by the 
others, especially by the microscope, we learn the nature of 
the particular adulteration or adulterations practised. The 
first means consist in noticing whether the sample in the mass 
cakes or coheres, whether it floats in water or not, and the color 
of the infusion. If the ground coffee cakes in the paper in 
which it is folded, or when pressed between the fingers, there is 
good reason for believing that it is adulterated, most probably 
with chiccory. If, when a few pinches of the suspected coffee 
are placed upon some water in a wine-glass, part floats and 
part sinks, there is reason to believe that it is adulterated — it 
may be either with chiccory, roasted com, or some other 
analogous substances. The coffee does not imbibe the water, 
but floats on the surface, while the other substances absorb the 
water, and gradually subside to the bottom to a greater or less 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



93 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

extent Usually, however, part of the coiBfee subsides with the 
chiccory, and a portion of the latter remains on the surface with 
the coffee ; and after the lapse of a short time, in general, both 
coffee and chiccory fall to the bottom. Again, if the cold water 
to which a portion of ground coffee has been added quickly 
becomes deeply colored, it is an evidence of the presence of 
some i-oasted vegetable substance or burnt sugar; for when 
coffee is added to water, it becomes scarcely colored for some 
time. Lastly, if in a few grains of coffee spread out on a 
piece of glass, and moistened with a few drops of water, we are 
enabled to pick out, by means of a needle, minute pieces of 
substance of a soft consistence, the coffee is doubtless adulter- 
ated ; for the particles of the coffee-seed are hard and resisting, 
and do not become soft even after prolonged immersion in water. 
When, therefore, any sample cakes into a mass, quickly 
furaishes to cold water a deep-colored solution, or is found to 
contain, when moistened with water, soft particles like those of 
bread-crumbs, there can be no question as to the existence of 
adulteration. The general characters of genuine ground coffee 
are, therefore, the reverse of the above." 

By these general means, and without having recourse to 
science, the observer is often enabled to state whether any sam- 
ple of coffee is adulterated or not ; but, in order to determine 
the character of the adulteration practised, we must employ 
either the microscope or chemistry. In the case of coffee, by 
far the most important information is furnished by the micro- 
scope ; indeed, chemistry affords no certain means for the iden- 
tification of the majority of the vegetable substances employed 
in the adulteration of coffee, and, did it do so, it would hardly 
be required, since these may be so readily detected by the mi- 
croscope. It is known that the adulterations of coffee are 
always greatly increased by a high duty on the article, which 
makes the admixture of all farinaceous substances immensely 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 93 

profitable to roasters and dealers in prepared coffee. It may not 
be amiss to here state that one of the principal objects of this 
work has been to call the attention of all consumers of coffee to 
the pernicious effects of adulterations. Coffee now being on 
the free list, and paying no duty when imported directly from 
places of growth, there should exist no excuse to continue the 
adulteration of so necessary an article of food. If a little 
attention is given by large dealers and direct distributei-s 
throughout the coimtry, in generally informing consumers of 
the economy of using pure coffee, it is believed that the busi- 
ness in chiccory, roasted rye, beans, peas, damaged ship's bread, 
stale crackers, bran, and all other such substances used by some 
coffee-roasters, will be greatly diminished if not entirely abo- 
lished. All consumers who once become accustomed to the use 
of pure coffee will with reluctance use any substitute for the 
berry, for none has ever been found to possess the advantages 
of taste, flavor, and the invigorating and healthful qualities of 
unadulterated coffee. 

Some twenty years ago, it was estimated that 18,000,000 
lbs. of vegetable matter of various kinds were sold annually 
under the deceptive name of coffee, while three-fourths of 
the amount consisted of chiccory. The various substances used 
in adulterating both chiccory and coffee, when sold in the 
powdered state, have been specifically pointed out as ingredients 
prejudicial to health. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



TAEIFFS OF VAKIOUS COUNTRIES. 



UNITED STATES. 

1789— Section 1, Act July 1, 1789. 

Whereas, it is necessary for the support of government, for 
the discharge of the debts of the United States, and the 
encouragement and protection of manufactures, that duties 
be laid on goods, wares, and merchandises imported from and 
after the first day of August next ensuing, there shall be 
laid on all Coffee imported into the United States from any 
foreign port or place, per pound 2} cts. 

1830— By Act of Congress, May 20, 1830, Coffee placed upon the free 

list Free. 

1861 — ^Extract of Coffee subjected to a duty by Act of Congress, March 
2, 1861, section 24, under un-enumerated manufactured ar- 
ticles, to pay twenty per centum ad- valorem , . 20% 

1861 — Raw Coffee in the bean, by Act of Congress, Aug^ist 5, 1861, 

shall pay per lb 4 cts. 

1861 — Raw Coffee in the bean increased by Act of Congress, December 

24, 1861, Chapter II. , shall pay per R), gold 5 cts. 

1862— All substitutes (except Chiccory), by Act of Congress, July 14, 
1862, section 8 : — on Acorn Coffee and Dandelion root, raw or 
prepared, and all other articles used or intended to be used as 
Coffee, or a substitute for Coffee, and not otherwise provided 
for, shall pay per lb, gold 3 cts. 

1864 — Chiccory root, by Act of June 30, 1864, section II., raw, per lb, 

gold 4 cts. 

Chiccory ground, burnt, or prepared, per lb, gold 5 cts. 

1866 — Section sixth of Act passed March 3, 1866. On all goods, wares, 
and merchandise of the growth or produce of countries east 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



96 TARIFFS OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

of the Cape of Good Hope, when imported from places west 
of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centum, ad- 
valorem, in addition to the duties imposed on any such arti- 
cle when imported directly from the place or places of their 

growth or production 10;^ 

(This act took effect April 1, 1866.) 

1870— By Act of Congress, July 14, 1870, section 21, coffee reduced 

after January 1, 1870, to per lb, gold 3 cts. 

1872— Act of May 1, 1872, Coffee placed upon the free list from July 1, 

1872 Free 

1872 — Act of June 6, 1872, Chiccory root, ground or unground, per tt) . 1 ct. 
On and after October 1, 1872, on all goods, wares, and mer- 
chandise of the growth or produce of countries east of the 
Cape of Good Hope, when imported from places west of the 
Cape of Grood Hope, a duty of ten per centum, ad-valorem, in 
addition to the duties imposed on any such article, if any, 
when imported directly from the place or places of their 

growth or production 10^ 

Total consumption in 1871, 316,609,765 lbs. 

GREAT BRITAIN. 

Note. — ^The duties on coffees in foreign countries have been reduced to U. S. gold, per 9> 
avoirdupois, in conformity with the United States revenue laws in force at the New York Custom 
House. 

1660 — ^In this year we find the first mention of Coffee on the statute 
books of Great Britain, when a duty of four pence was laid 
upon every gallon of Coffee, made and sold, to be paid by the 

maker. Equal per gallon to 8 cts. 

1789 — Coffee from British possessions 21 cts. 

Coffee from East Indies 49 cts. 

Total consumption, 930,141 lbs. 

1801 — Coffee from British possessions 35 cts. 

Eafit Indies 62^ cts. 

Total consumption, 750,000 lbs. 

1820 — Of any British possession in America or Africa 24 cts. 

From any place within the limits of the East India Co.'s charter 36 cts. 

All others 60i cts. 

Total consumption, 7,000,000 n>s. 
1835 — Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India Company's Charter, or of Sierra Leone 12 cts. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



TAEIFFS OF VAKIOUS COUNTBIES. 97 

Imported from any British possession within the limits of the 

East India Company's Charter, not being the produce thereof. 18 cts. 

Imported from any other place within those limits. 25 cts. 

Otherwise 30 cts. 

Total consumption, 23,000,000 lbs. 

1840 — Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India charter or Sierra Leone 12^ cts. 

Imported from any British possession within the h'mits of the 

East India Charter, not being the produce thereof 19 cts. 

Imported from any -place within those limits 25f cts. 

Otherwise Sl-ft^ cts. 

Total consumption, 28,000,000 lbs. 

1857 — Raw from all parts 6 cts. 

Eiln-dried, roasted and ground 8 cts. 

Total consumption, 84,334,000 lbs. 

1871 — Same rates 6 cts. 

Estimated total consumption in 1871, 40,000,000 lbs. 

The above are some of the most important changes in the tariff of Great 
Britain. 

FRANCE. 

1872 — Coffee, present duty per lb 5J cts. 

Coffee in French vessels 4J cts. 

SPAIN. 

Coffee the produce of, and coming direct from any Spanish 
possession If ct. 

Coffee the produce of, and coming from foreign coimtries 2^ cts. 

Extract, Essence, and other compounds of Coffee, fifteen per 
cent, ad-valorem 15^ 

PORTUGAL. 

Coffee in the shell If ct. 

Coffee cleaned 2^ cts. 

All imitations, including chiccory, also Coffee roasted or ground 2-f-g cts. 

TABIPP ON EXPORT OF COLONIES. 

Coffee from Cape Verde 1 ct. 

Coffee from Angola i ct. 

Coffee from St. Thome and Principe -J^ ct. 

ITALY. 
Coffee of all kinds 4-rt?oCts. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



98 TABIFFS OF VABIOUS COUNTRIES. 

GERMAN ZOLLVEREIN. 

OofiPee, green SJ cts. 

Coffee, roasted 5 cts. 

AUSTRIA. 

Coffee, green 3i ctw. 

Coffee, roasted or burnt 4i cts. 

On all Kibstitutes 3J cts. 

SWITZERLAND. 
Coffee 3 cts. 

BELGIUM. 

Coffee, green li ct. 

Coffee, roasted If ct. 

DENMARK. 

Coffee 2i cts. 

Extracts, forty per centum ad-valorem 40^ 

NORWAY. 

Coffee 4i cts. 

Extracts, foriy per centum ad-valorem 40^ 

SWEDEN. 

Coffee 2J cts. 

On any preparation or substitute 4 cts. 

RUSSIA. 
, Coffee in the bean 3 cts. 

rURKET. 
Coffee, eight per centum ad- valorem 8^ 



VICTORIA (AUSTRALIA). 
Coffee and chiccory 4 cts. 

NEW SOUTH WALES. 
Coffee and chiccory. 4 cts. 

NEW ZEALAND. 
Coffee 6 cts. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^ 



^ 



TARIFFS OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 99 

BRITISH COLUMBIA. 
Coffee, raw 3 cts. 

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 
Coffee , 8 cts. 

JAMAICA. 
Coffee 6 cts. 

BRITISH HONDURAS. 
C off ee 3 cts. 

ISLAND OF ST. CROIX 
Coffee, twdve and one-half per cent, ad- valorem 12^^ 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC. 
Coffee, twenty-five per cent, ad-valorem. 26% 

CHINA AND JAPAN. 
Coffee Free 

CEYLON. 
OoSeo. Free 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



100 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 

TaUe showing the Imjports and Consuirvption of Coffee in the 
United States. 



1871 
1870 
1869 
1868 
1867 
1866 
1865 
1864 
1863 
1863 
1861 
1860 
1859 
1858 
1857 
1856 
1855 
1854 
1853 
1852 
1851 



IMP0KT8. 



322,700,479 
282,540,737 
242,609,255 
238,012,079 
226,322,811 
165,392,983 
133,574,397 
145,304,957 
75,269,417 
98,558,680 
182,244,627 
185,779,689 
248,527,306 
227,656,186 
217,871,839 
230,913,150 
238,214,533 
182,473,853 
193,112,300 
205,542,855 
216,043,870 



lbs. 



CONSUMPTION. 



816,609,765 lbs. 

280,911,672 ** 

243,441,117 '* 

223,200,937 " 

203,506,671 " 

159,918,881 '' 

128,146,356 ** 

109,086,703 " 

79,719,641 " 

88,989,911 " 

187,045,786 ** 

177,111,993 " 

226,610,300 '' 

251,255,099 " 

172,565,934 " 

218,225,490 ** 

218,378,287 *' 

179,481,083 ** 

175,687,790 ** 

204,991,595 '' 

184,225,700 " 



t 



Digitized by 



Google 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 



101 



Tahle showing the Consurrvption of the Ports of the United 

States. 



TAKEN FBOU 


1871. 


1870. 


1869. 


1868. 


New York 

BftltimoTP T . . . 


157,842,920 lbs. 
88,252,945 " 
84,647,550 " 
9,227,700 " 
6,441,180 " 
21,197,520 " 


151,901,952 lbs. 
81,365,645 " 
26,116,970 " 
8,394,560 " 
1,941,945 " 
11,190,700 " 


148,595,172 lbs. 
66,781,710 " 
19,676,312 " 
6,457,963 " 
4,347,420 " 
7,632,540 ♦* 


148,220,881 lbs. 
39,890,900 " 
17,248,880 " 
4,705,046 " 
8,a30,360 " 
6,104,920 " 


New Orleans 

Boston 


Philadelphia 

Other Ports 


Total 


316,609,765 " 


280,911,672 " 


248,441,117 »' 


223,200,937 " 



Increase 1871 over 1870. .., 86,696,093 lbs. 

1870 " 1869 87,470,555" 

•• 1869 »» 1868 20,240,180" 

Total increase three years 93,408,828 lbs. 



TcMe showing the Consumption of the various hinds of 
Coffee in the United States for the year 1871. 

Of Braza 244,809,600 lbs. 

Of Java, Sumata», and Singapore, including receipts 

direct and from Europe 27,776,000 " 

Of Maracaibo 14,784,000 ** 

OfLaguayra 8,064,000 '' 

Of Ceylon 5,824,000 ' * 

Of St. Domingo 4,144,000 *' 

Of Other West Indies 4,480,000 ** 

Of Central American, Mexican, and other foreign 6,728,165 ** 

316,600,766 lbs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



im 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 



Tahle showing the Shipments of Coffee from the Porta of 
Bio de Janeiro and Santos. 







SUHOPS. 


1CL8EWHEBB. 


Flora Rio do Janeiro ISfTl-S, . . . 


172,804,960 lbs. 


89,364,16011)9. 


10,701,440 lbs. 


rt ■* " 


1870^1.... 


288,106,880 " 


167,110,080 " 


10,880,000 »» 




iaoft-70... 


186,296,480 " 


126,891,620 " 


11,847,900 - 


Frran SnaUw 


im-8.... 


12,826,440 " 


41,630,080 »' 




*t 


lBf70-l,... 


12,288,160 " 


60,178,080 " 




«t 


iSffl^Tt)... 


18,834,400 " 


64,777,600 " 





Table showing the yea/rly aA)erage Prices of Coffee at 
New York. 





Wtl. 


1870. 


1860. 


Brazil^ Fdr to Prime Cnrgoes. . . 
iTft vfl . T^fip" f^^'fl M*f* • 1 . 


16,% per. lb. 


16-,ifi,per.lb. 


16,% per. lb. 


Majnodbo and Lsffflfiyra 

St BoTniiuio b *^*.*^^ 







Digitized by 



Google 



ll 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 






Q 




ToPHEShRVK UiLs MAPiiiPlaco, 
it should be 
l^^OLDJhJn AS NfTMnKHKn . 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



lililli 



1 



This book should b© returned to 
the Library on or before the last d ate_ 
Btampfid betovr. 

A Kne of five oent» a day is jnciii:d 
by retaining it beyond the epecii 
time. 

Please return promptly* 



0.. 



fUCNOV 24 191 ^ 

t)Ll 192/ ^'^eweft 



FEB 11 m 



u^t DEC 1 1«2^ 



Qan 



-'Ct*/ I tr^ 



OuLjflhl^*,j 



DbtJAN: 





■^ 



Digitized by 



Google 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 





'^l: 



"/ 






#«* 



^mi^iim^ n 





i 



I 






Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

PRESENTED BY 

PROF. CHARLES A. KOFOID AND 

MRS. PRUDENCE W. KOFOID 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by Vj'OOQ IC 




., V rt fr-ttj ^ . ;; 'jf- Oj // r; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 






COFFEE 



ITS HISTORY, OTJLTIVATION, 



AND USES, 



By ROBERT HEWITT, Jr, 



ILLUSTRATED WITH ORIGINAL DBSiaNS BY EMINENT AMERICAN ARTISTS, 

AND A MAP OF THE WORLD SHOWING THE SEVERAL PLACES WHERE 

COFFEE IS, OR MAY BE PRODUCED, AND WHERE IT IS ALSO 

USED. 



NEW YORK: 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 

549 & 551 BROADWAY. 

1872. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Entered aooording to Act of Oongreas, In the year 1873, 

Bt BOBEBT HEWITT, Jb., 

In the Office of the librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 

Bight of translation reserved. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 






TO 



mjwk |)» Iriwli £8i}tttr^, 



HERCAimLE ABIUTY m HONORABLE DEALING 



ENTITLE HIM TO 



The First Rank and Position 

IN THE 

COFFEE TRADE, 

This Work is Respectfully Inscribed 

By the Autmob. 



jvi358900 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 




CONTENTS. 



PAGB 

Pbefacb 7 

intboductory 9 

The Histoby of the Ooppee-plant 14 

Its Cultitation in Various Ooxtntries 38 

Arabia...^ 42 

East Indies 49 

South America 59 

Methods op Making Coffee 66 

Analysis and Adulteration of Coffee 80 

Tariffs of Various Countries 94 

Statistical Tables of Coffee 99 




I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 




/ 



^a^<^^^ 




PEEFAOE. 



The reader may possibly remember among the charming " Essays 
of Elia " one entitled " A Dissertation on roast Pig," in which the 
writer, with true epicurean zest, insists upon its preferred claims. 
Whether the reader's taste be in exact accord with that of the 
essa3dst, it may not be easy to determine; but who can fail of 
being delighted with his treatment of the subject? It is with 
some such feeling of enthusiastic interest that the present volume 
has been prepared, and in a similar spirit it is now submitted to 
the candor of the reader. If occasion for enthusiasm is found in 
discussing the merits of roasted pig, surely very much stronger is 
the argument in behalf of roasted Coffee. 

Having from his earliest business associations been personally 
connected with the Coffee-trade, the writer has always been greatly 
interested in collecting anything relating to the history, cultiva- 
tion, or uses of this great staple. Long impressed with the idea 
that the mass of statistical figures that accumulate from day to 
day, in the many circulars and market reports received by those 
engaged in the importation and sale of coffee, tend rather to con- 
fuse and detract from the importance of this constantly increasing 
branch of commerce, the following pages are intended to give 
such general information as may perhaps interest not only those 
who are familiar with the business, but also that multitudinous 
class to whom coffee now has become an indispensable beverage; 



Digitized by 



Google 



Vm PREFACE. 

but who for the most part may not be familiar with its history 
and production. In a word, the work seeks to present, in a 
concise yet comprehensive form, all that relates to the history 
and cultiyation of coffee in various countries, and the pernicious 
effects of its adulteration. The best authorities have been con- 
sulted in its preparation; and it is to be hoped — since it has 
been compiled in response to repeated inquiries for some such a 
manual, by persons engaged in the coffee-trade — that it may be 
found acceptable. 

As it woidd be great temerity on his part, after what has been 
already stated, to bespeak for the volume any special literary merit, 
its claims upon the favor of the reader must depend mainly upon 
the intrinsic value of its statements and facts; its typographic 
and pictorial character will bear its own comment. "After many 
erasures, interlinings, enlargings, and diminishings," it is at last 
completed, and, as it is the first attempt of a novice, it is deemed 
right and proper to say (in strictest confidence) t)iat his vocation 
is simply that of a coffee-broker, one of that numerous fraternity 
whose business it is to please both buyer and seller, and who 
should be informed not only as to the present crop, but, to satisfy 
some, should have an opinion, when it is called for, as to all 
coming crops, etc., when chatting in the odd moments pending so 
momentous a transaction as a purchase or a sale (quantity not 
defined) of coffee. In fine, worthy reader, having thus far de- 
tained thee with a relation of the intent and purpose of the fol- 
lowing pages, it only remains, by thy courtesy, to venture the 
hope that what is now presented concerning the little aromatic 
berry may linger as pleasantly on thy mind and memory as a 
fragrant draught of its infusion does upon thy palate. 

ROBERT HEWITT, JR. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




■ CnfTw 1 oh. Coffee ! Faith, it i^ mr\m^\ng, 

^Mid all the ^khiU, giXH\ and bad mid ivorae^ 
WtoVe pcrlLiblcd (Hock or Chian eulogizing) 

Poftt and ijftpynis with * inirtiorteLl vCTse,^— 
Mi^lodiouAly Aim tUtitdini zing: 

In Sapphlcii lati^jld, or Alcaics tffjse^- — 
Ko one^ my little brown Arabinn berry, 

Hatb Etmg tkff pfolBeE, — 'tis siirpifiiiitie:, very ! 



la not the very name, Coffek, t^oir^jestiye 

of aTomatic odors? Is it not, indeed, the 

fragrant iiieeiise m'c |>roffor at tlie filirinc 

of the social hearth, — the delirious lihatinu 

- ^X^ which we pour on the altar of friendship ? Talk 

of the famed Faleniian wine of the ancients, or the nectar 

and ambrosia of the gods ; what were they to a delectable 
1* 



^^^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 INTRODUCTORY. 

draught of this world-renowned decoction ? Is it not the luxu- 
rious accompaniment of the chibouk and the cigar, and one of 
the indispensable symbols of the hospitalities and amenities of 
life? Yes, better far than the Bacchanalian cup of old is 
this non-inebriating draught, since it may be indulged with 
impunity; — ^for while it refreshes and stimulates, it does not 
stultify the mind. Wine, doubtless, inspired the ancient muse, 
and not, indeed, the ancient poets only ; and poetry, which 
has been styled " the wine of the mind," was put into compe- 
tition, in olden time, for the prize of a cask of wine ; while 
the Bacchic hymn was styled the " hymn of the cask." The 
poets-laureate have also, from the minstrel-monk, Chaucer, 
down to their living representative in England, continued to 
receive their " pipe of wine ; " from all which it seems that the 
bards do not solely seek inspiration from the Heliconian fount ! 
As a salutary beverage coffee has never, perhaps, been duly 
estimated, since it is not only a digestive drink, but it has 
suppressed to a great extent that excessive indulgence in 
inebriating draughts, that so frequently dishonored the ban- 
quets and prodigal hospitalities of former times. 
** Yes, the wine's a wayward child, — 

This the cnp that * draws it mild ! ' 

Deeply drink its stream divine. 

Fill the cup — but not with wine, — 

Potent port, or fiery sherry;— 

For this milder cup of mine, 

Crush me Yemen's fra^ant berry ! " 

Not alone in the East is the amber beverage indispensable ; 
it has also become a positive necessity in all the great capitals 
of Europe, as well as with all classes throughout the length and 
breadth of our own land. It has been well said by a recent 
writer, in one of our leading periodicals, — " that the proud son 
of the highest civilization can no longer live happily without 
the coffee of African robbers, the tobacco of the red barbarians, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



IXTRODUCTORY. 11 

the tea of the despised Chinese, and the sugar of the wretched 
Hindoo or enslaved negro. He cannot break his fast without 
coffee, nor finish his dinner ; and the whole social life of many 
nations is based upon the insignificant bean." The magic 
drink, which has held such unlimited sway over the social 
hospitalities of mankind for centuries, has also ministered to 
the relief of innumerable despairing dyspeptics, and achieved 
an incalculable amount of good, in rendering people more 
happy, and on better terms with themselves and everybody 
else, as well as more thoroughly equipped for encountering 
the battle of life. It is also suggestive of pleasant memories 
and visions of joyous, smiling groups that have graced the 
festive board, and shared with ourselves those genial " moods 
and tenses " that constitute much of the poetry of life. If the 
dreamy Mohammedan delights to divide his hours between the 
rival fascinations of his fragrant cup and the aroma of his 
" witching weed " in solemn silence, we of the Western World 
find in this favorite beverage a delightful auxiliary to some oi 
our purest social pleasures. Its influence upon the social 
habits and intellectual culture of the age is a beneficent one, 
for it not only exhilarates the mind, but it also acts as a gentle 
stimulant, recuperative and sustaining to the physical frame. 
Since cotton has been proclaimed " king " in the realm of com- 
merce, coffee should be styled " queen " among the beverages 
of domestic Kfe. True, tea takes prominent rank with many 
of the gentler sex, yet its fair fame has been traditionally 
suggestive of a love of scandal ; while the aromatic berry is 
wholly free from such a stigma.^ Had the learned lexicogra 
pher been less prodigal in his use of tea, and indulged himself 
with a frequent cup of fragrant coffee, he doubtless would 
have exhibited less asperity and angularity of character, and 
might have become as genial as he was wise. Like coffee, 
tobacco is also a potent plant ; — ^both alike hold absolute sway 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 INTRODUCTORY. 

over millioDB of mankind; yet, yielding too freely to the 
seductive influence of the narcotic weed, we may have to suffer 
the penalty, while with the aromatic berry nature is rarely in 
revolt. The one stimulates but to enervate ; the other refreshes 
and sustains. Coffee also is a better disinfectant than tobacco. 

In the olden time, when the " occult sciences," so called, were 
in vogue with the learned as well as the superstitious, women 
indulged implicit faith in omens, premonitions, and " signs." 
In Brande's " Antiquities," allusion is made to a curious species 
of divination by, or tossing of, coffee-grounds. The narrator 
relates a visit he paid to a lady ; — " whom he surprised with 
her company in close cabal over their coffee, the rest very in- 
tent upon one whom by her address and intelligence he guessed 
was a tire-woman, to which she added the secret of divining by 
coffee-grounds. She was then in full inspiration, and with 
much solemnity observing the atoms around the cup ; on the 
one hand sat a widow, on the other a maiden lady. . . . They 
assured him that every cast of the cup is a picture of all one's 
life to come, and every transaction and circumstance is delinea- 
ted with the exactest certainty," etc. The same practice is also 
noticed in the Connoisseur^ where a girl is represented divining 
to find out of what rank her husband should be : — " I have seen 
him several times in coffee-grounds^ with a sword by his side ; 
and he was once at the bottom of a tea-cup, in a coach-and-six, 
with two footmen behind it ! " 

Leigh Hunt thu^ pleasantly discourses upon our subject: 
^^ Coffee, like tea, used to form a refreshment by itself, some 
hours after dinner ; it is now taken as a digester, right upon 
that meal dr the wine, and sometimes does not even close it ; 
or the digester itself is digested by a liqueur of some sort 
called a chasse-wfe (coffee-chaser). We like coffee better than 
tea for the taste, but tea ' for a constancy.' To be perfect in 
point of relish (we do not say of wholesomeness), coffee should 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



INTRODUCTORY. 13 

be strong and hot, with little milk and sugar. It has been drunk 
after this mode in some parts of Europe, but the public have 
nowhere, we believe, adopted it. The favorite way of taking 
it as a meal, abroad, is with a great superfluity of milk — very 
properly called, in France, cafe-au-lait (coffee to the milk). 
One of the pleasures we receive in drinking coffee is that, 
being the universal drink in the East, it reminds of that region 
of the ^ Arabian Nights,' as smoking does for the same reason ; 
though neither of these refreshments, which are identified with 
Oriental manners, is to be found in that enchanting work. 
They had not been discovered when it was written ; the drink 
then was sherbet. One can hardly fancy what a Turk or a 
Persian could have done without coffee and a pipe, any more 
than the English ladies and gentlemen, before the civil wars, 
without tea for breakfast." 

Thus much, then, may suffice as our " apology " for propos- 
ing to the reader to accompany us in our rapid survey of the 
career of coffee over the globe, since its first discovery. What 
we have here gleaned from a great variety of sources concern- 
ing the fragrant berry, has been to the compiler by no means a 
theme devoid of interest ; but should the reader not be of the 
same opinion, it may not be inappropriate to suggest that, 
before committing to him the results of our researches, he 
should fortify himself with a cup of the inspiring beverage, 
and thus be put into true sympathy with the subject. 




Digitized by VjOOQIC 




Familiae as we all are with 

Coffee as a beverage, yet com- 
paratively 1k>w few of lis ever 
iniiigiiie tliat its history can be 
f out id to possess any particular 
interest, or cloeerve any ei^pec.^ial 
notice. We sip the aroniaticdra^iij^bt 
when athii-st, and ^lenve fi'om it a sense 
of i*enewed vigor when aweary ; but when 
is onr curiosity provoked, ov prompted 
to inquire, as to who was the benefactor 
that first discovered its virtues, where it first grew, and by 
what curious process or manipulation we derive the deli- 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 15 

cious driuk 5 Everything has, indeed, its history or tradition, 
and so has the fragrant little berry, the aromatic incense of 
which so gratefully greets our olfactory nerve, at the repast 
which ushei-s in the dawn and close of day. 

Coffee, it appears, became known to civilization at an epoch 
memorable for many marvellous events. It was about the time 
of the great awakening of mankind from the long slumbers of 
the Middle Ages, when those great luminaries, Columbus and 
Faust, blazed upon the world. One brought to light a new 
hemisphere, and the other gave to mankind the " art preserva- 
tive of arts," and the light of intelligence to the whole civilized 
globe. Coffee was originally known by the name of Kauhi^ 
an orthography somewhat suggestive of a certain Town Council- 
lor of Leeds, who, writing out a "bill of fare" for a public 
breakfast, contrived* to spell coffee v^\\ho\it employing a single 
letter tliat occurs in that word, thus — Kawphy ! Although the 
plant or tree is indigenous to Southern Abyssinia, where it is 
even to the present day cultivated, yet it derived its name from 
Kaffa^ in Eastern Africa, where the plant also grows wild, and 
very abundantly. The Malays, who from their intercourse with 
the Arabs have long knovm the berry, call it by the Arabian 
name, Kawah ; the Javanese, however, in common with our- 
selves, designate it Coffee. There is an Eastern legend which 
ascribes the discovery of the berry to a Dervish named Hadji 
Omer, who, in the year 1285, being driven out of Mocha, 
was induced, in the extremity of hunger, to roast the berries 
which grew near his hiding-place. He ate them, as the only 
means of sustaining life ; and steeping the roasted berries in 
water, to quench his thirst, he thus discovered their agreeable 
qualities, and also that the infusion was nearly equal to solid 
food. His persecutors, who had intended that he should die of 
starvation, regarded his preservation as a miracle. He was ac- 
cordingly transmuted into a saint forthwith ! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

According to the manuscript of Schehabeddin Ben, an 
Arabian Scribe of the ninth century of the Hegira, or the 
fifteenth of the Christian era, which manuscript is, or was, in 
the great Library of the city of Paris, we learn that a certain 
Mufti, or Mohammedan high-priest, named Gemal Eddin, of 
Aden, a town of Arabia Felix, was the first who introduced to 
his countrymen the custom of coffee-drinking. Having returned 
from visiting Persia, where he had observed the beverage used 
as a medicine, and being at the time himself sick, he tried as an 
experiment a dose of the " black draught." Finding it both 
curative and exliilarating, he forthwith turned his discovery 
to good account, by applying its virtues as an antidote to the 
torpor and drowsiness of his monks, whom he had often found 
dormant at their devotions. 

The example and authority of the Mufti' at once conferred on 
coffee a reputation, and it speedily came into general use, not 
only on account of its sleep-dispelling power, but also for its 
other good qualities. Coffee, which had been in use in Ethiopia, 
it is believed, from time immemorial, was carried by the Der- 
vishes to Mecca, where the beverage became so popular with the 
sons of the prophet that its fame soon extended to other towns 
adjaceiit. It continued its career through Syria, and was re- 
ceived without opposition at Damascus and Aleppo, and in 
the year 1554 became the favorite drink at Constantinople, 
where, soon after, coffee-houses were opened. 

In the same proportion that the coffee-houses were thronged, 
the mosques became deserted ; and the priests represented that 
no doubt the new drink was forbidden by the Koran, for that 
the roasted berry was certainly a kind of coal, and that as such 
it was prohibited by the Prophet's law. The Mufti, on a peti- 
tion to this effect, without hesitation decided that coffee was 
coal ; nevertheless, in spite of frequent enactments against it, the 
people continued to drink it. The exertions of the police were 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 17 

ineffectual, and the government was at length contented to re- 
strain its use merely by rigid sumptuary laws. Coffee was 
taxed, and the black draught was allowed to be drunk in secret. 
But ere long another Mufti arose, of a less antiphlogistic turn, 
and he pronounced coffee not coal, but a right remunerative 
item of government tax. At a later day, when too much free- 
dom of political discussion took place in the Oriental coffee- 
houses, they were suppressed by the Grand Yizier; yet the 
beverage continued to be almost uni^'ersally used, some persons 
taking even twenty dishes of it in a day — the dishes, however, 
were small. The lower classes also actually begged money for 
coffee ; and it is added by the chronicler of the time, that " the 
refusing to supply a wife with coffee was admitted in law as a 
valid cause of divorce." From the " city of the Sultan " it passed 
to Western Europe, but at what precise time, historians have 
not positively determined. It is believed to have been intro- 
duced into Venice about the year 1615. In 1644 it was known 
at Marseilles, M. de la Haye having taken with him some of the 
coffee-beans from Constantinople, with vessels and an apparatus 
for making the beverage. 

The traveller Thevenot was among the first to introduce into 
Paris the custom of taking coffee after dinner ; but he had few 
imitators until ten years after, — about 1668, when the coffee 
parties of the Turkish ambassador at Paris brought the bever- 
age into fashion. " The brilliant porcelain cups," says Disraeli, 
" in which it is poured, — ^the napkins fringed with gold, and the 
Turkish slaves, on their knees, presenting it to the ladies, seat- 
ed on the ground on cushions, — turned the heads of the Parisian 
dames," the exotic soon became a subject of general conver- 
sation, and a cafe was opened for the sale of the beverage, in 
1671, by an Armenian of the name of Pascal. The enterprise 
did not succeed, however, on account of the heterogeneous com- 
pany that met there. A few years later, Procope, a Florentine, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18 THB HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

who became noted as an arbiter of taste in such matters, opened 
a splendid saloon, at which the rank and fashion of the French 
capital used to assemble. 

Soon the cafi became the resort of the most renowned wits, 
artists, and philosophers of the French metropolis — Kousseau, 
Voltaire, Piron, with Marmontel and many others. The univer- 
sal favor in which coffee is still held in Paris, suflSciently dis- 
proves the accuracy of the famous prophecy of Madame de 
Sevign^, — that "coffee and Racine would have their day." 
Among the most noted of the Parisian cafis were those known 
as the Cafi des MiUe ColonneSy and the Cafe Turc^ on the 
Boulevard, which were fitted up with oriental splendor, as glit- 
tering with ornament as an opium-eater's dreams, or the glow- 
ing tints of a page of Vathek, 

The high favor with which coffee came at length to be re- 
garded in the houses of the great, may be inferred from the 
fact that a sum equivalent to $15,000 a year was expended for 
supplying the daughters of Louis XY. of France with the bev- 
erage. In 1714 the magistrates of Amsterdam presented Louis 
XIY. with a coffee-tree, which was sent to the Eoyal Gardens. 
It was Louis XIY. who directed M. Des Clieux to take one of the 
plants to Martinique, one of the French West India possessions. 
The voyage proved so tempestuous and prolonged that he was 
compelled to divide his water-rations with it, in order to keep it 
alive. From that parent plant an immense progeny has sprung. 

The consumption of coffee in the French capital at the 
breaking out of the Eevolution was something enormous. We 
find it estimated that the French West India Islands furnished 
no less than eighty millions of pounds of it yearly, and this was , 
irrespective of a liberal supply from the East. The two 
sources combined were not even adequate to the supply of the 
demand. We are not surely to infer from this circumstance 
that coffee itself possesses any Revolutionary element. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 19 

It was to this extraordinary demand for coffee that the adul- 
terations of the berry may be traced ; — ^the adulterers made for- 
tunes by their combination of chiccory with it, but the well- 
earned reputation of the French suffered by the admixture. 

At the " Cafe Procope," the earliest of these establishments 
in Paris, a curious incident, worth mentioning, occurred con- 
cerning a cup of coffee. As M. Saint Foix was one day seated 
at his usual table in this cafe, an officer of the king's body-guard 
entered, sat down, and ordered a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, adding, " It will serve me for a dinner ! " At this Saint 
Foix remarked aloud, " that a cup of coffee, with milk and a 
roll, was a confoundedly poor dinner." The officer remonstrated. 
Saint Foix reiterated his remark, adding, that nothing he could 
say to the contrary would convince him that it was not a con- 
foundedly poor dinner. Thereupon a challenge was given 
and accepted, and the whole company present adjourned as 
spectators of a fight, which ended by Saint Foix receiving a 
wound in the arm. " That is all very well,'^ said the wounded 
combatant, " but I call you to witness, gentlemen, that I am still 
profoundly convinced that a cup of coffee, with milk and a roll, 
is a confoundedly poor dinner ! " At this moment the principals 
were arrested and carried before the Duke de Noailles, in whose 
presence St. Foix, without waiting to be questioned, said, " Mon- 
seigneur, I had not the slightest intention of offending the gal- 
lant ofiieer, who, I doubt not, is an honorable man, but your 
Excellency can never prevent my asserting that a cup of coffee, 
with milk and a roll, is a confoundedly poor dinner." — " ^^y, 
so it is," said the Duke. " Then I am not in the wrong," per- 
sisted St. Foix, " and a cup of coffee," — at these words magis- 
trates, delinquents, and auditory burst into a roar of laughter, 
and the antagonists became forthwith warm friends. The oldest 
cafe in the Palais Koyal is the celebrated " Cafe de Foy," so 
called from the name of its founder. Carl Yernet was one of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

its most constant patrons. He was there on one occasion when 
some repairs were going on, and in his impatience he flung a 
wet coloring-brush from him which struck the ceiling and left a 
spot. He immediately ascended the ladder, and with a touch 
of his finger converted the stain into a swallow ; and his handi- 
work was to be seen until the recent siege of Paris. It was 
before this cafe that Desmoulins harangued the mob, in July, 
1789, with such effect that they took up arms, destroyed the 
Bastille, and inaugurated the fearful scenes of the Eevolution. 
The Germans were initiated into the practice of coffee-drinking 
by their neighbors the French, and also by the Dutch. The 
beverage did not, however, become popular with them until the 
Elector of Brandenburg caused its virtues and praises to be 
celebrated in a book, which he disseminated among the people. 
We have already spoken of the devotion of the Turk to this 
drink, now almost the universal beverage of the East. It is 
difficult to transfer ourselves in thought and feeling to the 
glowing scenes of the Orient. Imagine yourself peering into 
one of the brilliant divans of the " City of the Sultan," with its 
tessellated court-yard, and its towering pinnacle or minaret, 
nestled among mulberry trees and pomegranates. In the cen- 
tre of the richly decorated saloon is the cooling fountain, which 
scatters its silvery spray and fantastic foam over groups of bril- 
liant flowers, while on every side the eye is regaled with varie- 
gated marbles, magnificent arabesques, and gaudy hangings, 
relieved with gilded devices of matchless beauty. In some such 
circumstances of luxurious splendor may be seen the indolent 
Osmanli regaling himself with his favorite weed, and a cup of 
his immixed Mocha silently brought to him by his Nubian slave, 
in brilliant costume. Among the surrounding groups are some 
Arabs at chess, while others may be listening to one of tlie 
famous Oriental story-tellers, or gazing at the tricks of some 
juggler, or witnessing the exploits of a dancing dervish. But 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 21 

silence, indolence, and stolidity are the prevailing characteris- 
tics of the Turkish divan. In Persia, however, the scene is 
changed ; there the coffee-houses are full of stir and activity. 
Soon after morning prayers are announced from the minaret, the 
people flock to their coffee-houses, which are often beautifully 
decorated, and there they sip their coffee, smoke, and listen to 
the wise sayings of Sadi, or the songs of Hafiz, or talk over the 
news of the hour. 

Those who have visited the Havana and roamed through 
that delightful city will remember with pleasurable sensations 
the magnificent cafes, and especially the " Louvre." Sauntering 
from the city gates, where the white-clad officials, with Panama 
hats, demand from all travellers landing from the steamers a 
silver fee for perAission to remain a certain number of days 
upon the island, the "looker-on at Vienna" strolls through the 
lovely " Plaza de Armas " with its fountains and its flowers ; 
halts for a few moments on the paved walks, and while lis- 
tening to the music of the military band, admires the beautiful 
faces and graceful toilets of the fair promenaders, who pass 
and repass under the lamps, enjoying the tropical twilight. 
Taking a victoria, which is the popular vehicle always to be 
found ready to convey passengers to any part of the city, he is 
whirled past the palace of the Governor-General, and through 
narrow streets, between the massive walls of houses on either 
side, until he alights at the " Louvre." This cafe is situated 
opposite the Tacon theatre, which is known for its elegance 
of construction and rich appointments. Facing it is a 
splendid park, used as a promenade during the evening, 
when it is brilliantly illuminated. It is the fashionable resort 
for promenaders. The scene is worth witnessing, presenting 
a changing panorama of brilliant variety, while richly ap- 
pointed equipages, volantes and other vehicles, all gayly 
equipped, are constantly passing. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 THE HISTOEY OF COFFEE. * 

Leaving the victoria, which has by this time obtained 
another fare, the cafe with its open doors attracts attention. 
Entering the grand saloon on the first floor, level with the 
narrow sidewalks, which permit only one pedestrian to pass 
comfortably at a time, the visitor seats himself at one of the 
small marble-covered tables that are plentifully distributed 
over the tiled floor; and whatever the temperature of the 
streets may be, the caf^s are always cool, and at them may be 
met, at certain hours of the day, many English and American 
visitors and residents. Immediately when seated, one of the 
attendants approaches and politely asks, in Spanish, for orders ; 
an attempt to make the waiter comprehend English will 
generally meet with signal failure. While enjoying the 
delicious coffee and a choice cigar, the vJlitor looks about 
the saloon, which is fitted up in a style of magnificence out- 
rivalling all other cafes in the city. At each of the small 
tables are groups of Spaniards, Cubans, Germans, Englishmen, 
and Americans, with here and there an oflicer in brilliant 
uniform, all chatting, drinking coffee, or sipping light wines, 
and each, with rare exceptions, fondling a cigar. All over 
this interesting city, more especially in the older portion of it, 
inside the now nearly obliterated lines of ancient walls, the 
cafes confront the passer-by at nearly every square. Watching 
an old coffee-drinker in the " Louvre " one day, he was seen to 
carefully drop the white lumps of sugar into his cup until the 
top of the sweet pile rose just above the rich yellow fluid, and 
then gently rubbing his palms together, he prepared himself to 
enjoy the nectar. " La Dominica " was formerly the favorite 
caf^, but it has of late years been superseded by more modem 
establishments ; it is still however well patronized, but makes 
more of a specialty in manufacturing " dulces " or sweetmeats, 
which have a world-wide reputation, especially the guava 
jelly, most of which comes from this entrepot. The Havanese 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE, 23 

understand pretty well how to make and drink coffee, and 
never hesitate to avail themselves of its invigorating influence. 
When dwellers in the tropics — not only in this delightful island 
but wherever coffee is grown — once learn how to make coffee 
in perfection, which can only be done by steam-heat, a new 
impetus will be given to the growth of the bean, for, like all 
discoveries of value, the better an article is produced, the more 
universally is it used. 

Coffee was first regularly introduced into England about the 
middle of the seventeenth century, as we learn from the fol- 
lowing extract from Sir Henry Blount, who visited Turkey in 
1634:— "The Turks have a drink," he writes, " called CaupKe, 
made of a berry as big as a small bean, dried in a furnace, and 
beat to a powder of- a sooty color, in taste a little bitterish, that 
they seethe and drink, hot as may be endured. It is good at all 
hours of the day, but especially at morning and evening, when 
to that purpose they entertain themselves two or three hours in 
cauphe-houses, which, in Turkey, abound more than Inns and 
ale-houses with us." Notwithstanding the opposition and pre- 
judice which prevailed against the beverage for nearly a score 
of years after its first introduction, the coffee-houses continued 
to increase in London and other large cities of England. All 
classes resorted to them ; literary men and artists, mercantile 
men and the votaries of fashion, all had their respective coffee- 
houses. Thus — 

*' Mocha^s berry, from. Arabia pure, 
In small, fine, china cups came in at last." 

The English and French dispute the honor of being the first 
introducers of coffee into Western Europe. Coffee was not 
used at Home until long after it had been known to, and 
tasted by, Italian travellers at Constantinople; the Church, 
however, looked with favor upon a beverage, one effect of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

which was to keep both priests and people awake. Although 
the coffee-houses of England take precedence of those of 
France, yet the latter have more enduringly flourished. 
On the authority of Oldys, the antiquary, " the first use 
of coffee in England was known in 1657, when one Edwards, 
a Turkey merchant, brought from Smyrna to London one 
Pasqua Kosee, a Kagusan youth, who prepared this drink 
for him every morning. But the novelty thereof drawing too 
much company to him, he allowed his said servant, with 
another of his sons-in-law, to sell it publicly ; and they set up 
the first coffee-house in London, in St. Michael's Alley, 
Comhill. But they separating, Pasqua kept in the house ; and 
he who had been his partner obtained leave to pitch a tent, 
and sell the liquor, in St. Michael's Churchyard." Aubrey, in 
his "Anecdotes," states that the first vender of coffee in 
London was one Bowman, coachman to a Turkey merchant 
named Hodges, who was the father-in-law of Edwards, and the 
partner of Pasqua, who got into difiiculties, partly by his not 
being a freeman, and who left the country. BoWihan was not 
only patronized, but a magnificent contribution of one thousand 
sixpences was presented to him, wherewith he made great 
improvements in his coffee-house. Bowman took an appren- 
tice (Paynter), who learned the mystery of coffee-making, and 
soon after set up for himself. The coffee-houses, after this, 
soon became numerous. 

The frequenters of coffee-houses, however, were not then 
regarded as belonging to the most reputable classes of society, 
and the proposed substitution of a cup of the Arabian infusion 
for Canary wine, provoked the opposition of the wits and 
satirists. The ladies, also, declared against its being thus sold 
at coffee-houses, — ^from which they were excluded, — as being 
unsocial and uncivil. On the other hand, apologists and 
advocates were not wanting in their behalf: one of the most 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 25 

curious of which was that of Aubrey, — ^the Boswell of his 
day, — who declared that he should never have acquired so 
extensive an acquaintance but for the " modem advantages of 
coffee-houses in this great city; before which men knew not 
how to be acquainted but with their own relations and 
societies ! " 

An animated controversy was kept up about coffee during 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Among the squibs 
and lampoons of the time may be mentioned the following 
piquant titles : — " The Coffee-house GranadOj^ " The WomerUa 
Petition against Coffee^'* and " The MevUs Answer to the sameP 
Another was entitled, " A cup of Coffee^ or Coffee in its true 
Colour:'^'* and a grave writer in prose issued a grotesque 
hand-bill, headed with a rude cut of coffee-bibbers, surrounded 
vrith the following eulogistic legend : " A brief description of 
the excellent vertues of that sober and wholesome drinke, 
called coffee, and its incomparable effects in preventing or 
curing most diseases incidental to human bodies 1 " AVlien first 
introduced into London, coffee sold at from four to five guineas 
a pound. In spite of opposition, coffee soon became a favorite 
drink, and the shops where it was sold, places of general 
resort ! Another of the earliest coffee-houses of London was 
the well-known "Eainbow," near Temple Bar, which still 
ftourishes, but altogether in a new style. Li 1675 a proclama- 
tion was issued for closing all coffee-houses. The government 
soon found, however, that in making such a proclamation they 
had gone a step too far; for the coffee-houses of even that 
day had become a "power in the land." They were indeed 
the chief organs through which the public opinion of the 
metropolis was expressed. That coffee-houses in Charles the 
Second's time were regarded as headquarters for the news of 
the day, we gather from a "broadside" song, which com- 
mences thus : — 
2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

*^ Yon that delight in wit and mirth, and long to hear such news 

As come from all parts of the earth, — Dutch, Danes, and Turks, and Jews ;— 

I'll send you to a rendezvous, where it is smoking new ; 

And coming from the ooflfee-house, it cannot but be true I " 

Doran, in his amusing volumej " Table Traits," Ibas gathered 
some curious items and incidents connected with the old London 
coffee-houses which are replete with interest, and which we 
shall condense for the reader. The " Grecian" was one of the 
most noted of the old establishments of this kind in London ; 
it appears to have been the oldest of the better-known of the 
coffee-houses, and to have lasted the longest. It was opened by 
one Constantine, a Greek, living in the latter part of the seven- 
teenth century, and its location was in the vicinity of St. Christo- 
pher's Church. Its longevity is not a little remarkable, for its 
career came to a close only in the year 1843, when the "Grecian 
Coffee-house" became transformed into the "Grecian Chambers," 
or lodgings for bachelors. The establishment did not exist in the 
same locality, however, all the time; for at the time of its 
transformation the " Grecian " was situated in Devereux Street, 
Strand. In its palmy days it was the resort of the learned 
and aristocratic, and its classic name seems not to have been 
dishonored by its fame. Sparkling humor and genial repartee 
would often flash responsive to the inspiring but non-inebriating 
cup, and thus qualify the gravity of those learned pundits who 
would gather there, not to discuss the trivialities of the day, but 
those weightier matters that concern the rise and fall of dy- 
nasties, — such as the fate of Home and the events which issued 
from the Trojan war. Yet then, as now, satirists would seize 
upon the points of humor ; and as there were pedants as well 
as philosophers who convened at the " Grecian," so lampoons 
and literary squibs were not wanting to enliven the scene. 

It was a time when both sages and sciolists wore swords; 
and it is on record that two friendly scholars, sipping their 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 27 

coflFee at the " Grecian," became enemies in argument, the subject 
of which was the accent of a Greek word. Whatever the accent 
ought to have been, the quarrel was acute^ and its conclusion 
grave. The scholars rushed into Devereux Court, drew their 
swords, and as one was run through the body and killed on the 
spot, it is to be supposed that he was necessarily wrong. A 
duel, however, was certainly a strange way of settling a ques- 
tion in grammar. The " coffee-houses " which were resorted to 
for mere conversation as well as coffee began on a first floor ; 
they were the seed, as it were, whence has arisen the political 
and exclusive " club " of the present day. The advantages of 
association were first experienced in coffee-houses ; but at the 
same time it must be admitted that there also was felt the 
annoyance caused by intrusive and unwelcome strangers. 
^•' Wills's Coffee-house," also known as the " Wits " from its com- 
pany, was situated at the west comer of Bow Street, Covent 
Garden. In the last half of the seventeenth century, its 
popularity was at its height. It was at Wills's that Dryden 
" pedagogued " without restraint, and accepted without a blush 
any amount of flattery on his literary productions. He was the 
great literary luminary around which lesser orbs and satellites 
revolved. He had the good sense, however, to retire early, 
when the tables were full, and he knew he had made a favora- 
ble impression ; but Addison, more given to jolly fellowship, 
sat late with those who stayed to indulge " libations deep." Of 
the disputes that there arose, " Glorious John " was arbiter : for 
his particular use a chair was especially reserved ; therein 
enthroned he sat by the hearth or the balcony, according to the 
season, and delivered his decisions. Another of the renowned 
London coffee-houses was " Button's," in Great Kussell Street ; 
this was Addison's favorite rendezvous, although the fruit of the 
vine was, in his case, preferred to the infusion of the berry. 
There, after writing during the forenoon at his house in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



28 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

St. James's Place, — where his breakfast table was attended by 
such men as Steele, Davenant, Carey, Philips, Pope, and other 
bards and writers of note, — ^he was to be found of an evening until 
supper. Pope was of the company for about a year, but left it 
partly because late hours injured his health, and partly also 
because his irritable temper had rendered him unpopular. He 
had so provoked Ambrose Philips, indeed, that the latter sus- 
pended a birchen-rod over Pope's usual seat, in intimation of 
what the ordinary occupant would get if he ventured into it. 
The Buttonians were famous for the fierceness of their criti- 
cism. Of coffee-houses that went by the name of " Tom's " 
there were three : at that in Birchen-lane Garrick frequently 
might have been seen ; and poor Chatterton, before fell despair 
slew him. At the other coffee-house known as " Tom's," in 
Devereux Court, Akenside, with many of the scholars, critics, 
and scientists of the day used to congregate ; but the " Tom's " 
was opposite Button's, in Great Russell Street. It was a place 
generally crowded with incident, from the time of Queen Anne 
to that of George III. Seven hundred of the nobility, literary 
notabilities, and wits of celebrity were guinea subscribers to 
this establishment; most of the company, however, consoled 
themselves with something more potent than coffee. The poli- 
ticians as well as the poets had their coffee-houses ; the " Cocoa- 
Tree " in St. JamQ^'s Street was the Tory house in the reign 
of Queen Anne ; the " St. James's " was the Whig house. Here 
occasionally might have been seen members of Parliament, also 
a galaxy of literary stars. This had a more solid reputation 
than any other of the coffee-houses except '' White's." " Gar- 
raways," or Garway, as the original proprietor was called, was 
one of the earliest coffee-sellers in London, and his house was 
frequented by the nobility and gentry, as well as others who 
wished to sip the aromatic beverage. All these places, and 
many others which might be referi-ed to, were in full activity of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 29 

business and coffee-drinking in the reign of Queen Anne. 
Another notable coffee-house was known as "Squire's," at 
which the lawyers and politicians were accustomed to meet 
in considerable numbers; and there, it will be remembered, 
" Sir Eoger de Coverley " smoked a pipe over a dish of coffee 
with the " Spectator." But we have been loitering, perhaps 
too long, about the old London coffee-houses, and in tracing the 
history of Cafia in Europe and the East ; still we cannot dismiss 
the subject without referring to the history of coffee-houses in 
our own country. 

The consumption of the berry is constantly and rapidly 
increasing in the United States, the increased ratio being 
greater than the most sanguine advocate of the beverage could 
ever have predicted, and pure coffee must soon be so exten- 
sively and universally used that all pertaining to its history 
will be of interest to the world at large. 

In no place in the world, probably, are the influences and 
healthful effects of pure coffee more happily displayed than in 
what is known to every resident and visitor of the Crescent City 
as the old French market of New Orleans. Here, from the 
"earliest time," have been coffee-venders conveniently distri- 
buted throughout the great maze of stalls and marts, and from 
the small hours in the morning until nearly noon the distribu- 
ters of this most invigorating of beverages are busy as bees. 

Aside from their special occupation, these dealers in coffee 
are a peculiar people. It seems to be an appropriate vocation 
in this genial climate, which at once strikes the observant tra- 
veller when he first sees a French or Spanish mulatto, with 
her head curiously covered by a gayly striped bandanna, 
serving hot coffee. Yet it is a fact that it is only people who 
answer to this description who are the most thorough experts in 
extracting the delicious taste from the berry, in keeping the 
delightful aroma from passing away in the i-ising steam, in pro- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



30 THE mSTOEY OF COFFEE. 

viding the best kinds of sugar and the most honest and well- 
cleaned cups and saucers. At the shrine of one of these ven- 
ders in the early hours of the morning, when the fogs of the 
Mississippi are rolling over the Crescent City, breaking like 
clouds against the intervening houses, and filling the air with 
sickly miasma which nauseates the unfortunate whose business 
calls him out before the fogs are dissipated, then it is that coffee 
is most prized. Look at the recipient, who with blanched face, 
dull eyes, and depressed mien, reaches out his hand and seizes 
upon the nectar. The moment the fragrance reaches his nos- 
trils a transformation for the better commences, the eyes grow 
bright, a healthful color and natural fulness returns to the 
cheeks, smiles wrfeath the mouth, the mind becomes active, the 
fogs, the dark air, effluvia of all sorts are exorcised like ghosts 
fleeing before the penetrating rays of the unobstructed sun. 

The European, the Creole, the New Englander, the men of 
the West and the far-off Orient, all visit the coffee-stands. 
While partaking there is for the instant a touch of nature which 
makes mankind akin, for it is observable that the recipients of 
the morning cup of pure Java are sociable. Artificial distinc- 
tions are discarded in the very act of drinking in the crowded 
market, or even standing in the open street. But it is the very 
thing, this mixture of the rude and the refined, that adds zest to 
the " open-air cup of coffee." The merry twinkle of the eye of 
the attendant quadroon, her quiet manners, her attentive observ- 
ance of the wants and tastes of the various customers, the very 
polish of the tall copper kettle, the jet of steam, the whiteness 
of the crockery, constitute associations that, once realized, one 
never forgets, and justly places coffee among the most grateful, 
innocent, and healthful things that we Americans include among 
the necessaries of life. 

The coffee-houses of New York are intimately associated 
with the history of the city. Within their walls have been the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 31 

scenes and players whose actions made the pulses of the nation 
throb in high excitement, or calmed them to deep repose. The 
early records show that in 1643 Martin Krigier became the 
owner of a plot of land on the west side of what is now called 
Broadway, nearly opposite the north end of the Bowling Green, 
and built on it Krigier's Tavern. It soon became a resort of the 
fashionable men of the day, and was at times the headquarters 
of the Dutch Governor, William Kieft. It was removed in 
after-years, and on its site was built the "King's Arms Tavern." 
During the excitement previous to the Kevolution, it was 
known as Bum's Coffee-House, and was used for 'the meetings 
of merchants and the associations of " Liberty Boys." On the 
31st of October, 1765, the merchants engaged in the importa- 
tion of English goods met at Bum's Coffee-House, and adopted 
resolutions to import no more goods from England until the 
Stamp Act was repealed. Two hundred merchants signed the 
resolutions. During the same evening a non-importation soci- 
ety was formed in the same place, and a committee on cor- 
respondence appointed, comprising many of the weU-known 
merchants of New York. During the Kevolution the house 
became the headquarters of General Gage, of the British army. 
Tears rolled on, and when Time touched the spot again it was 
changed into the Atlantic Gardens. In the summer of 1860 
the ground was purchased by the Hudson Kiver Railroad Com- 
pany, and the old house was removed to make room for a 
freight depot. 

At the foot of Wall street, still known among the old mer- 
chants as Coffee-House Slip, was the Merchants' Coffee-House. 
It stood on the southeast corner of Wall and Water streets, and 
before the erection of the Tontine Coffee-House, in 1792, was, 
in fact, the Merchants' Exchange, and political headquarters 
of colonial times. . Id. 1762 a petition was presented to the 
city authorities for the removal of the meal-market at the foot 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



32 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

of Wall street, because " it was disagreeable to those that pass 
to and from the Coffee-House, a place of great resort." The 
meal-market was built in 1709, and occupied the site of the 
ancient half -moon fortification and block-house of the Dutch 
era. The Merchants' Coffee-House was five stories high, the 
entrance being even with the sidewalk ; a light balcony crossed 
the front and side of the house at the second story. That it 
was a business centre in the early days of the city may be 
gathered from the following copy of an advertisement in the 
newspapers of April 9, 1750 : — " For London. The Ship Brave 
Hawke, John Bill, Commander ; Will sail in about Ten Days : 
For Freight or Passage agree with John Troup^ or said Master. 
Just imported a parcel of Likely Negroes to be sold at publick 
Vendue, To-morrow at Ten o'Clock, at the Merchants' Coffee 
House." A New York price-current of August 6th, 1750, 
quotes coffee at 20 pence per pound. The Merchants' Coffee- 
House was destroyed by fire on December 18th, 1804. The 
site was afterwards occupied by the oflSces of the New York 
Journal of Commerce^ one pf the most prominent commercial 
newspapers in the country. While the bounds of the city 
were somewhat limited, — Broadway extending only as far as 
Worth street, and the line of Canal street and Broadway was 
so distant from the city that one of the Lutheran churches, to 
whom was offered six acres of land at that point, declined the 
gift because the land was not worth fencing in, — coffee-houses 
were numerous in New York. Kichard Clarke Cook, who had 
bought the interest of Andrew Kamsey in the "King's Arms" 
on Dock street, near the Long Bridge, reopened it on May 7th, 
1750, as "The Gentlemen's and Exchange Coffee-House and 
Tavern." Perhaps the most famous was the City Tavern. It 
was built in the early part of lie last century, by the Delancey 
family, and still stands on the southeast comer of Broad and 
Dock, now Broad and Pearl streets. In 1757 it was occupied by 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 33 

Delancey, Eobinson & Co., for the sale of "East India goods, 
shoes, stockings, and shirts, white and checked, fit for the army, 
with a variety of other goods." On the loth of January, 1762, 
the property was conveyed to Samuel Francis, or, as he after- 
wards signed his name, Samuel Fraunces. He was the Del- 
monico of that age, having been the proprietor of the " Mason's 
Arms," near the Bowling Green, the Yauxhall Gardens in 
Greenwich street, and the great Philadelphia stage-oflSice in 
Cortlandt street. Fraunces opened the house on Broad street 
as a tavern, under the sign of " Queen Charlotte." In 1765 
Fraunces retired, and was followed by John Jones. In 1766 
Jones withdrew in favor of Bolton & Sigell, who were thus 
advertised in HoWs New York Journal: — ^"Bolton & Sigell 
Take this method to acquaint the Publick that they propose to 
open, on Monday next, a Coffee-House at the House of Mr. 
Samuel Francis, near the Exchange, lately kept by Mr. John 
Jones, and known by the name of the ' Queen's Head Tavern,' 
where Gentlemen may depend upon receiving the best of 
Usage. As Strangers, they are sensible they can have no 
Pretensions to the Favour of the Public but wliat results 
from their readiness upon all occasions to oblige." The 
house enjoyed a fair share of business. The societies met 
there as in the time of Fraunces ; the Chamber of Commerce 
held its monthly meetings there until it secured a room of its 
own; yet the business was not profitable, and in 1770 Mr, 
Sigell retired from the firm. In the same year Mr. Bolton 
gave up the business, and Fraunces again took possession. It 
was during this last term of Fraunces that the " City," or, as it 
was better known, " Fraunces's Tavern," acquired its celebrity. 
Large dinner-parties were held there, and among the societies 
that met in the upper rooms during the winter was the " Social 
Club." During the summer this Club encamped at lup's Bay 
Meetings were held on Saturday evenings, and on the rolls were 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 THE HISTORY OF COFFEK 

the well-known names of John Jay, member of CongresSj minis- 
ter to Spain, minister to England, and Governor of New York ; 
Gouvemeur Morris, Robert K. Livingston, Morgan Lewis, Eg- 
bert Benson, Gulian Verplanek, President of the Bank of New 
York ; John Watts, Leonard and Anthony Lispenard, Kichard 
Harrison, Peter Yan Sehaack, Daniel Ludlow, afterwards 
President of the Manhattan Bank; William Imlay, and Dr. 
Samuel Bard, Washington's favorite physician. The Club 
was broken up in 1775. In the parlor on the second floor of 
Fraunces's Tavern, on the 4th day of December, 1783, occurred 
the most sadly impressive scene in Washington's history. At 
noon the oflicers of the army were there assembled, at the re- 
quest of the great chieftain, to finally part. The scene has 
been so often described that it needs no repetition here. Li 
1789, Fraunces, or, as he was sometimes called, " Black Sam," 
became the chief steward in Washington's household, at the 
residence of the first President, No. 3 Cherry street, near Frank- 
lin square, where we are told Mrs. Washington furnished her 
guests on New Year's day, 1790, with coffee, tea, plum and 
plain cake. 

The celebrated Tontine CofFee-House, on the north-west cor- 
ner of Wall and Water streets, was commenced in 1792, and was 
the scene of many stirring events in the annals of history and 
trade. The Merchants' CofiFee-House, on the opposite comer, 
was then called the Old Coffee-House, and its business was 
gradually transferred to the Tontine, to which place the Ex- 
change was moved from the dingy building in the middle of 
Broad street, between Pearl and the river, where it had been 
since the revolution. The following extracts from an article on 
the Tontine Coffee-House will be read with interest : — 

" In 1795 the old Coffee-House was in full operation, but who 
can tel] us of the scenes therein? Who can call back the voices 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTOEY OF COFFEE. 35 

of the old merchants of that day, and repeat the stories tliey 
laughed over in the Coffee-House on 'opening night?' 

" At length the Merchants' Exchange moved further up Wall 
street, and sales of merchandise were not so frequent within the 
old house, but the long stoop on the Wall street front was still 
used, an I the advertisements of the day read, ' At X o'clock, in 
front of T. C, will be sold' ." 

It was designed to provide a central location for the mercan- 
tile community. The merchants had long felt the need of some 
place where they could assemble and discuss the probable re- 
sults of trade and the various questions of the time, and during 
their leisure indulge in a cup of prime old coffee without walk- 
ing to their distant homes in State street. Bowling Green, and 
the lower part of Greenwich street. The property was pur- 
chased by five merchants, and held by them under the provi- 
sions of the Tontine Association as the first board of directors. 

"In 1826 and 1827 the Tontine Coffee-House was in the 
hands of John Morse, who had formerly kept the old Stager 
House at the comer of Church and Crown streets, New Hav6n. 
He turned the entire house into a tavern, and it so remained for 
several years. The first floor was in one room, running the full 
length of the house, &nd fronting Wall street. At the back of 
the room, extending nearly its whole length, was the old-fash- 
ioned bar. Jutting out from the counter were curious arms of 
brass, supporting the thick, round, and mast-like timber on which 
the heavy dealei'S leaned while ordering refreshments. About 
the room were numerous small tables, and after supper, in fair 
weather, around the tables could be seen many of the wealthy 
city men, diminishing the contents of their pewter mugs, or 
planning, amid the curling smoke in the room, their operations 
for the next day. Morse was not successful in the Tontine, and 
was finally sold out for the benefit of ' whom it might concern.' 

" In 1832 it was kept as a hotel by Lovejoy & Belcher, and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



36 THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 

was the scene of several brilliant Masonic dinners. The lodges, 
in annual parade, would march from the City Hotel, on Broad- 
way, down to Broad street ; through Broad to Pearl, and though 
Pearl street to Wall and the Coffee-House — ^which they thought 
a long tramp. After the banquet the march would be resumed 
along Pearl to Beekman street, up Beekman to Chatham street, 
down Chatham to Broadway and the City Hotel. 

Caldwell & Kenyon kept a restaurant in the basement; 
they afterwards sold out. to Charles Eidabock, familiarly known 
as the ' Alderman.' Charles was a heavy, good-natured Ger- 
man, who kept the dirtiest shop and the best oysters in the city. 
He had been for many years an employ^ of George Washing- 
ton Browne. 

In 1823, when the entire block on ^the west side of Water 
street, between Pine and Wall streets, was mainly occupied by 
the stores and oflSces of auctioneers, a hotel was opened on the 
opposite side, at Nos. 123 and 125 Water street, by George 
Washington Browne, and called the ^Auction Hotel.' The host 
had many friends among the merchants and was well patronized. 
Some years later, in 1832, the physicians in the city urged all 
to abstain from drinking beer and wine, and to drink pure 
coffee, in order to avoid the cholera, then epidemic. Browne 
immediately opened a large and convenient coffee-room on the 
first floor of the hotel, and the wonders of coffee as a sanitary 
beverage were highly commended. The hotel became familiarly 
known as Browne's Coffee-House and was a favorite dining- 
place. A number of merchants that dined there became known 
as 'the club; ' such men as Thomas H. Faile, John J. Boyd, 
Samuel Paxon, Edward Penfold, George W. Blunt, Gilbert 
Davis, and other well-known New Yorkers could daily be met 
there. The club has ceased to meet, but the hotel is open, and 
the coffee-room and restaurant are still patronized. 

On the south-east of what is now Pine and William streets, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HISTORY OF COFFEE. 37 

there stood from the year 1812 to 1830 the Bank CoflFee-House, 
kept by William Kiblo. Adjoining it on the rear was a garden, 
and the building formerly occupied by the Bank of New York, 
the first banking institution established in this city. Pjne 
street was then lined with the residences of prominent lawyers 
and merchants. The houses were nearly all built of brick, with 
sunken areas in front. Mr. Niblo was then a young, active man, 
taking great pride in the reputation of his caf^, and soon made 
it famous for its suppers given by Benedicts taking leave of 
their bachelor friends. In 1830 the Bank Coffee-House passed 
into other hands and was torn down, Niblo going to Broadway 
and Prince street, where he opened the gardens which bore 
his name. 

The cheerful name of coffee-house has somewhat lost its sig- 
nificance in New York with the establishment of the more pre- 
tentious hotels, and in them the coffee-rooms are shorn of many 
pleasant associations. Within a few years a desire has been 
shown to establish richly appointed and well-ordered cafes^ 
managed by chefs from sunny France. Those who early em- 
barked in the business have enlarged their establishments, and 
new ones are constantly springing up in nearly every sec- 
tion of the metropolis, especially on the fashionable thorough- 
f ai-es, and young New Yorkers have not been long in adopting 
the Parisian ideas and conveniences of the cafe^ as a pleasant 
place to stroll in after the opera or theatre. 

To judge of the estimate in which coffee is held in the United 
States, it is only necessary to refer to the table showing the 
annual average consumption to see that we are by far the 
largest coffee-consumers in the world ; six-fold more than some 
of the States of Europe. Germany and France stand next to 
tJlirselves in the rank of gi-eat coffee-drinkers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




It ia a i*nrions fact, tliat three 
plants coinioc't together ^ three dif- 
ferent quartei-s df the ^h>l)e, which 
iniglit otlierwise have known com- 
paratively little of each otiier: 
Arahia ifi linked to America and 
Europe by her coffee; China, by 
her tea ; and tohacco has heen fur 
ai^es one of the c<jnnecthig com 
inercial l^oiids between the two 
henn^ipheres. 

Before refeiTiiig to the varione 
methods of cultivation, it may not be inappropriate, briefly 
to describe the plant itself. Coffee^ a cinchonaceous genus, 



Digitized by 



Google 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 39 

consisting of many species of tropical berry-bearing shrubs, 
one of which, Coffcea Arahioaj — the only one which is 
cultivated, — is a native of Upper Ethiopia and Arabia 
Felix. This is the parent of the plant from whose crushed 
berries we derive that delightful aromatic drink called cof- 
fee. This albuminous substance — the coffee of commerce 
— is to that plant what the flour is to com, the white 
meat to a cocoa-nut, and the aromatic ruminated substance 
to the nutmeg. It is a secretion formed in the interior 
of the seed, and enveloping the embryo plant, for whose 
support it is destined when it first begins to germinate ; it 
constitutes the principal part of the seed, the embryo being 
itself a minute body lying in a cavity at one end of the al- 
bumen. 

linnseus places the plant among the Pentandria Monogy- 
nia ; its flower consists of one funnel-shaped petals with a 
slender tube, nearly cylindrical, much longer than the flower- 
cup. It is described botanically as an ever-green shrub in its 
native state, having oval, shining, sharp-pointed leaves, white, 
fragrant, flve-cleft clustered corollas, with projecting anthers, 
and oblong pulpy berries, which are at first of a bright red 
color, but afterwards become purple. The dark-green leaves, 
shining brilliantly in the sun, afford a beautiful contrast to the 
pure white, jessamine-like blossoms that cluster and nestle 
among the foliage ; which ever and anon turns fitfully up with 
the breeze its white under-lining, and glitters like the foam- 
crest on the ocean wave. Its leaves resemble those of the 
common laurel, although not so dry and thick. From the 
angle of the leaf -stalks small groups of the white flowers issue, 
which, as already stated, resemble those of the jessamine. These 
flowers fade very soon, and are replaced by a kind of fruit not 
unlike a cherry, which contains a yellow fluid enveloping two 
small seeds or berries, convex upon one side, flat and furrowed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4:0 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

upon the other. These seeds are of a horny or cartilaginous 
nature ; they are glued together, each being surrounded with a 
peculiar coriaceous membrane. The period of flowering does 
not last more than two days. In a single night the blossoms 
expand so profusely that the trees appear as if covered with 
snow. The seeds are known to be ripe when the berries have 
a dark red color. 

Travellers and planters tell us that nothing can be conceived 
more delightful than the appearance and perfume of a coffee 
plantation in full bloom. The air is filled with fragrance, and 
the trees appear as if a shower of snow had just fallen on their 
dark-green glossy leaves, which are almost entirely hidden by 
the profusion of delicate white blossoms. This rare beauty is, 
however, but short-lived, — for the splendid array of the morn- 
ing may, perchance, fade away with the heats of noon, or 
the mellowing tints of even. 

Prof. Baird, speaking of a plantation in the West Indies, says : 
"Anything in the way of cultivation more beautiful or more fra- 
grant than a coffee plantation I had not conceived : and oft did 
I say to myself that if ever I became, from health or otherwise, 
a cultivator of the soil within the tropics, I would cultivate the 
coffee-plant, even though I did so irrespective altogether of the 
profits that might be derived from so doing. Much has been 
written, and not without justice, of the rich fragrance of an 
orange-grove ; and at home we ofttimes hear of the sweet odors 
of a bean-field. I too have often enjoyed, in the Carse of 
Stirling and elsewhere in Scotland, the balmy breezes as they 
swept over the latter, particularly when the sun had burst out 
with unusual strength after a shower of rain. I have likewise 
in Martinique, Santa Cruz, Jamaica, and Cuba inhaled the gales 
wafted from the orangeries; but not for a moment would I 
compare either with the exquisite aromatic odors from a coffee 
plantation in full blow, when the hill-side, quite covered over 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 41 

with the regular rows of the tree-like shrub, with their millions 
of jessamine-like flowers, showers down upon you as you ride 
up between the plants a perfume of the most delicately deli- 
cious description. 'Tis worth going to the West Indies to see 
the sight and inhale the perfume." 

TurnbuU, another authority on the subject, tells us that "the 
fragrance of the gardens of the Tuileries is as inferior to that 
of the Moorish gardens of the Alcazar, at Seville, as these last 
— with all the care bestowed upon them — are excelled by some 
neglected orange-grove in Cuba or St. Domingo. Nor is the rich 
fragrance of the orange-grove to be compared for a moment 
with the aromatic odors of a coffee plantation, — when its 
hundred thousand trees have just thrown out their unrivalled dis- 
play of jessamine-like flowers, — ^reminding you of what you 
may have read in Eastern fable of the perfumes of ' Araby the 
blest ! ' " It is also amid the prodigal luxuriance and splen- 
dors of tropical vegetation that the coffee-plant most loves to 
linger, loading the atmosphere with its perfumed sweets, as 
well as regaling the eye with its rare beauty. No wonder that 
such surpassing scenes of beauty should inspire the poet to such 
utterance as the following : — 

^^ Earth from her lap perennial yerdnre poors, 
Ambrosial fruits and amaranthine flowers : 
Over wild mountains and luxuriant plains, 
Nature in all her pomp of beauty reigns ! 
Stem Winter smiles on this auspicious clime ; 
The fields are florid in eternal prime ; 
From the bleak pole no winds inclement blow, 
Mould the round haU, or flake the fleecy snow ; 
But from the breezy deep the groves inhale 
The fragrant murmurs of the eastern gale I " 

The clustered trees of the golden Mocha in their native soil 
present a strange contrast, however, with the aspect of the land- 
scape farther northward. "There," states a recent authority, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

" a low, sandy shore affords a free view over vast treeless plains 
which stretch in sad monotony as far as the eye can reach, 
while the cloudless sky sends down an almost insupportable 
heat; only here and there a limited pasture, with lean grass and 
a few graceful palm-trees, breaks the mournful uniformity ; in 
the grateful shade a few Bedouins rest under their black tents, 
while their brethren hasten on the uncouth dromedary through 
the yellow desert. Very different is the scene on the southern 
slope of the great peninsula ; for here an abundant, fragrant 
vegetation unfolds its riches and enchants the senses ; incense 
grows like the juniper of our woods ; whole forests of palm-trees 
overshadow the lower parts of the mountains, and vast stretches 
of durra wave like golden grain in the gentle breeze. This is 
the home of the coffee-tree." 

Amid such profusion of natural beauty rises the graceful 
plant that bears the berry we so much prize. Not only does 
the plant load the air with delicious perfume, but beautiful 
butterflies are ever fluttering among its honeyed blossoms, suck- 
ing sweets ; while locusts are chirping on every branch, and a 
cloudless blue sky looks down upon the exuberant splendor, till 
the blossoms fade, and become transmuted in process of time 
into a red berry, the kernel of which is the coffee-bean. While 
these berries are maturing and becoming dark purple — such 
are the effects of a tropical climate — ^the tree produces a second 
and a third crop of snowy blossoms, so that the beautiful green 
pyramidal branches are garnished with buds, and flowers, and 
fruits, at every stage of development. 

Coffee is still cultivated in "Araby the blest," the coffee- 
gardens there being on terraces which reach to an elevation 
of about 3,000 feet. The soil is kept moist by means of 
small artificial canals, which are made to irrigate the whole 
by the water falling from the upper to the lower terraces. 
The trees here are planted so closely together that the thick 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIEa 43 

foliage shelters their roots from the tropical heat of the 
sun. 

Niebnhr states that the plant was brought from Abyssinia 
by the Arabs to Yemen. For ages it is believed to have 
been cultivated in the hilly range of Jabal. Here the 
plants are grown in a soil continually irrigated, and where 
trees of various kinds are interspersed among the plantations, 
whose shade has a beneficial effect upon the coffee bushes. 
The fruit begins to ripen in February ; and when the seeds 
are prepared they are conveyed to the city of Beit el Fakih, 
whence part goes to Mocha, another portion to Hodeida 
and Loheia, whence it finds its way to Djedda and Suez, 
for the Turkish and European markets. 

Coffee, it has been proved, can be cultivated with great ease 
and to any extent in the republic of Liberia, being indigenous 
to the soil and found there in abundance. It bears more fruit 
there and lasts longer than elsewhere. A single tree at Mora- 
via, it is said, has yielded the enormous quantity of 16 pounds 
at one gathering. It was estimated some years since that there 
were about 30,000 coffee-trees in one of the counties, that of 
Grand Bassa, and the quality of the produce was stated to be 
equal to the best Java. About the villages and settlements of 
the Sherbro Eiver and Sierra Leone, wild coffee-trees are very 
abundant. 

If, as it has been computed, there are now consumed 
annually a thousand million pounds of the precious bean, 
Coffee can no longer be said to hold an insignificant place 
among the staples of trade. On the contrary, its impor- 
tance as such can hardly be over-estimated, when it is remem- 
bered to what vast multitudes of persons its cultivation, 
transportation, and preparation for use afford profitable means 
of support. 

There is scarcely any other item of commerce that has made 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4i: CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

more rapid progress in the world, or gained for itself more 
general acceptation with all classes, than coffee. Its constantly 
increasing consumption as a beverage, as seen by the statistical 
tables, clearly proves that it may be regarded not only as one of 
the necessities of civilized life, but also as a very important one. 
Two things connected with coffee conduce to its popularity, — 
its refreshing, restoring, and exhilarating qualities and its non- 
inebriating influence. A beverage that shall be found to 
combine these essential requisites is, indeed, a sine qud non 
with multitudes, who, while they would seek the stimulant, 
would also avoid the penalty of the intoxicating draught. 
Coffee, therefore, is to be regarded as an auxiliary to temper- 
ance ; since its use tends largely to supersede that of spirituous 
liquors. This continued increase in the demand for the bever- 
age, irrespective of climatic influences, will of necessity extend 
the present area of its cultivation largely into those belts 
of land which are favorable to the production of the plant. 
These lands are found lying principally between the isothennal 
lines of 25° north and 30° south of the equator, as may be 
seen by reference to the accompanying Map. It has been 
ascertained that the plant cannot be grown to advantage in 
places where the thennometer descends at any time below 55°. 

Besides the existing countries where coffee is cultivated, 
there are many other places where it might be extensively 
grown, such, for instance, as the western coast of Africa 
generally, the interior ranges of Natal, the mountain ranges 
on the northern coast of Australia, from Moreton Bay to Torres 
Straits, &c. Soil and climate are the circumstances which 
chiefly affect its commercial value. 

The cultivation of coffee is now widely diffused over all the tro- 
pical parts of the world. It is found in most of the West India 
Islands, in the provinces of Central America, Cayenne, Peru, 
Bolivia, and especially Brazil — the greatest market of alL It 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 45 

IS widely spread over Arabia, the western coast of India, 
Ceylon, Sumatra, Bourbon, Mauritius, Java, and some of the 
Pacific Islands; and in many of these places it is found in 
climates differing as much as 20*^ in average temperature. 
By reference to the Map, a bird's-eye view may be obtained 
of the several places where the berry is most cultivated or 
where it may be advantageously produced. According to 
M. Lascelles, "The coffee-plant will bear extremes of cli- 
mate better than most plants. In Jamaica it is found on 
the Blue Mountain, upwards of 6,000 feet above the sea; 
and in the East Indies it is seen growing, and producing at 
Coonoor on the JSTeilgherries, at a similar elevation ; whilst, on 
the other hand, it is also seen growing at the level of the sea 
in both hemispheres, a difference of average temperature of 
from 20° to 30°. It has been contended by some that the 
coffee produced at a high elevation is of a finer quality than 
that grown in a warmer temperature ; this is, however, gener- 
ally considered questionable." 

" "JVlien grown at the extremes of climate it is small, gener- 
ally much lighter, and the actual number of berries is far less 
than that grown in a genial climate. Experience has proved 
that from lat. 6° to 12*^ an elevation of from 3,000 to 4,000 feet 
is the most suited, whilst beyond this 500 feet of elevation 
should be allowed for every degree of latitude. It is now an 
ascertained fact that much of the far-famed Mocha coffee is 
produced in the East Indies and shipped to Mocha ; and no in- 
considerable portion also comes from the low land of Kaffa and 
Enarea, in Africa. The excellence of Mocha coffee appears to 
consist more in the name and method of curing than any other 
cause." 

A recent authority remarks: "It is often the case that theory 
is opposed to practice in upholding the idea that there is any 
substantial difference in the coffee grown in different countries. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IX VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

Where, such diflFerence is really found to exist, it will generally 
be the result of different modes of cultivation and preparation 
for the market, or what is known as curing. 

" The quantity of rain is found to exercise a material effect 
on the quality of the crop, and a dry climate produces a 
better flavored and more colory bean than the excessive 
moisture pi^valent on some of the most highly esteemed 
districts, both in the eastern and western hemispheres. It may 
be mentioned in proof of the first of these statements, that the 
size and appearance of the bean have been entirely changed 
by improved or neglected cultivation, and in one estate in 
India the beans are scarcely larger than sweet-peas, owing to 
the proprietor having adopted a theory of never pruning the 
trees; whilst several estates that had been neglected have 
improved both in quality and quantity of produce to an extent 
scarcely credible since they have been manured and pruned. 
Seeds from Mocha, Brazil, and Java have been tried in Ceylon 
and India, and the produce has not differed in any respect 
from that of the plants already in existence there. ^An 
excessively moist climate has further a tendency to pro- 
duce long, weak, elongated shoots, drooping at the extremi- 
ties, and the foliage thin, the leaf long, but devoid of sub- 
stance. 

"The coffee-tree flourishes in hilly districts where its root 
can be kept dry while its leaves are refreshed with frequent 
showers. Kocky ground with rich decomposed mould in the 
fissures agrees best with it. Though it would grow to the 
height of fifteen or twenty feet, yet it is usually kept down 
by pruning to that of five feet, for increasing its productive- 
ness, as well as for the convenience of cropping. It biegins 
to yield fruit the third year, but is not generally in full 
bearing until the fifth. In coffee husbandry the plants 
should be placed eight feet apart, as the trees throw out 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 47 

extensive horizontal branches, and in holes ten or twelve feet 
deep, to secure a constant supply of moisture. 

" The berries, as a general rule, when ripe are picked and 
spread out on large drying-grounds, and are dried with the 
pulp and parchment on the bean; when thoroughly dry 
the berries are passed under wooden rollers, or pounded in 
wooden mortars, and the outer skin being thus removed, the 
beans are winnowed, garbled, sized and packed for the market. 
The coffee prepared in this way is seldom so even in color 
and appearance, but the aroma is better. This method is, 
however, open to serious objections. Owing to the much 
greater bulk of the coffee before the pulp is removed, the 
room for drying would require to be very extensive, and as 
coffee is very liable to ferment in the pulp, it must be laid 
very thin, and constantly turned ; whilst iu the event of wet 
weather or exposure to moisture, or the equally dangerous 
alternative of heaping it up, the whole would ferment and 
be utterly spoiled." 

The system pursued by most planters for removing the 
pulp is by machinery. After being washed and put on the 
barbecues to dry, it is of importance to keep the coffee 
constantly turned until it is all surface-dry, and the beans 
cease to adhere to each other, but it should not be exposed 
to sun or wind until the parchment cracks, as every hour's 
exposure to the atmosphere, after that is removed, takes 
away both from the color and the aroma of the bean. Of 
course what has been said presupposes that the coffee is 
picked when fully ripe, since no care in curing or packing 
will impart color or flavor to a half -ripe beaiL For packing, 
casks or cases are preferable to sacks, since coffee has a 
strong attraction for damp and for all scents, and its aroma 
will also suffer by its contact with any substance with which 
it may be brought into connection. There are said to be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

ten varieties of the coffee, but only one is found indigenous 
to India, and it is questionable if this is not the Mocha 
species introduced from Arabia. 

The island of Ceylon is situated in the Indian Ocean, and 
belongs to Great Britain. Little is known of the aboriginal 
inhabitants of the island; at present they resemble the Hin- 
doos of the neighboring continent, and consist in part of 
Singhalese. The Singhalese spoken language is peculiar to 
this island; but their written language is either Pali or 
Sanscrit. Ceylon claims to possess historical records dating 
back some twenty-four centuries, and their authenticity as 
regards descriptions of ancient towns, buildings, and works of 
art is established by existing ruins, proving that the island had 
been at a remote period inhabited by a powerful and numerous 
people. ;Ceylon was known to the Greeks and Eomans in the 
time of Alexander ; it was also visited by traders in the sixth 
century, and by Marco Polo in the thirteenth century. Little 
was known of it, however, until 1505, when the Portuguese 
established a regular intercourse with the island, being encour- 
aged thereto by the King of Kandy, who first paid them 
tribute in cinnamon, to defend the island against the Arabian 
pirates. The Portuguese were subsequently expelled by the 
Dutch, who in turn were driven from the island by the 
British. " The total export of coffee from Ceylon in the year 
1837 was valued at less than $500,000. 

" In 1870 the export was over 94,000,000 lbs., equivalent to 
fully $17,500,000 in the consuming markets. Within the past 
fifteen years even the number of coffee plantations in Ceylon 
has increased from 404 to 1,004 ; the extent of land planted 
from 80,000 acres to 200,000, or over 312 square miles, and 
the crops have generally been favorable. This is exclusive of 
coffee cultivated by the natives in their gardens, supposed to 
cover 50,000 acres more. ^ Native ' coffee is the kind usually 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 49 

exported from Ceylon to Europe, America, and the Australian 
colonies, and it is prepared for the market after a different 
fashion from the plantation kinds, which are generally dearer. 
There are now 1,000 working coffee plantations in Ceylon, 
requiring 200,000 coolies (men, women, and children from 
Southern India) to cultivate and gather orops, and worth for 
the 312 miles of cultivation, together with the buildings, 
machinery, and stock, not less than $35,000,000." 

The most suitable soil in the East Indies for the coffee-plant 
is that which grows soft timber. The latest authorities seem 
to confirm the opinion of Laborie, who observes : " If the first 
(tap root) finds the quickstone, gravel-stone, or clay, the tree 
will not last long ; but if it, as well as the roots, find their 
way through stony ground, and if there be a good proportion 
of mould, it suffers no inconvenience, as the stones keep the 
mould together." The finest estates are said to be of this latter 
character of soil, and have given consecutively heavy crops, 
with the assistance of little or no manure. While estates of a 
lighter soil, having lost nearly all the mould, and having no 
good subsoil, have to be regularly manured. In a word, a 
dark chocolate-colored soil, mixed with small stones, under 
ledges of rock, and bestrewn with boulders, is the best ; and 
the most favorable elevation is 3,000 feet. A level piece of 
virgin ground, not far from water, where the soil is rich and 
crumbly, is the most eligible for the construction of a nursery. 
First the land must be thoroughly cleared, and all but the 
largest stumps of the forest-trees rooted out ; the soil must be 
dug to the depth of nine or twelve inches, and be made as 
friable as possible, then divided into beds with narrow paths 
between them, the seed, in parchment (generally taken from 
the cisterns after being pulped), should be put in, row by row, 
about six inches apart. A rope the length of the beds is used 
for this purpose, stretched from one end of the beds to the 
3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



50 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

other. The seed, if sown in suitable weather, soon makes its 
appearance above the surface; so that a nursery made in 
May or June of one year has plants fit to put out at the 
same date in the following year. A slightly inclined piece of 
land is more desirable for a nursery, because the natural drain- 
age would be better-; and it is important that care should be 
taken to prevent damage by heavj^ rains. One bushel of parch- 
ment coffee is calculated to yield about 30,000 plants ; so that 
for a clearing of 100 acres, four or five bushels of seed would 
be required. When the young trees in a nursery have attained 
a growth and age at which their being planted out as plants 
becomes rather a doubtful proceeding, with reference to the 
probability of their succeeding and taking root, it is better to 
make "stumps" of them: this is done by pulling them up, 
with as little injury as possible to the roots, and cutting them 
down to about six inches above the root ; then to shorten the 
tap-root by a careful sloping cut ; next to trim the other lateral 
roots, which are often needlessly extended. Filling in is the 
operation that follows holing. It has been ascertained by 
experience, that leaving the holes open for some time is very 
beneficial to the soil in a chemical point of view. Filling in, 
like every other work on a coffee estate, should be carefully 
superintended. But of all operations in the formation of 
a coffee plantation, the actual placing of the plants in the 
holes is the one that requires the utmost care and attention. 
Early planting is, of course, desirable, because the trees have 
the benefit of the entire rainy season, and are sure to give a 
larger maiden crop. The usual course of transferring the 
plants is as follows: when pulled up, those with crooked 
roots should be picked out and thrown away ; the roots should 
then be trimmed with a sharp knife, diminishing the length 
of the tap-root sufiiciently to prevent the chance of its being 
bent or broken. The plant should not be put deeper into the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OP COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 61 

earth than it was, before it was pulled up; it should then be 
pressed down with the hands or firmly trodden down. A 
coffee plantation, to be worked effective^, requires to be well 
" roaded " and drained. Drains, like roads and paths, should 
be cut as soon as the estate is commenced, or at all events 
before the trees cover the ground, or the coffee will suffer. 
These drains are usually about fifteen inches wide and deep, 
and at the distance of every twenty trees, which would be 
about 120 feet apart. As weeds are the bane of coffee estates, 
they are to be constantly cleared off, at least once a month. 
When the trees have been freed from suckers, and have 
reached twelve or eighteen months, the operation of tapping is 
usually commenced. The advantages for the custom are thus 
detailed by Lahorie : " First, it brings the fruit within easy 
reach, and prevents the branches being broken ; secondly, the 
tree thereby acquires strength and vigor both below and above 
ground, and the stem becomes larger in circumference; 
thirdly, it affords less hold to the winds ; fourthly, the form of 
the tree is more beautiful; and fifthly, it loses none of its 
inferior branches, which, as nearer the source of vegetation, 
are better nourished, and, of course, more productive." Plant- 
ers have observed that the part of the tree most exposed to the 
sun and air usually bears the heaviest clusters ; therefore the 
more the tree is thinned out, fhe more it bears. This is 
exemplified by young trees in their second and third crops, 
which bear very heavily, chiefly from the primaries and 
secondaries. Commonly, coffee-trees bear heavily one year 
and lightly the next. Eegular pruning and searching have 
been found to produce the most satisfactory result. 

The next thing in order is the handling, which should be 
done twice if practicable before crop. If the force on the 
estate admits of it, the prunings should be buried in trenches 
between the trees. They soon turn into vegetable mould, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



52 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

and the loosening of the soil and cutting of the long fibrous 
roots Tery much invigorate the trees. In the same manner, 
the young wood, after the searching, may be buried with 
great advantage to the surrounding trees. No branch should 
be allowed to bear more than two, or at most three crops; 
it should then be removed to make room for a fresh one. 
As the same wood never bears twice, the branches, if allowed 
to bear more than three crops, degenerate into mere whips, 
bearing only a few berries at the extremities. No definite 
mle can be given for pruning old trees, however; as M. 
Sabonadiere informs us, much depends upon their condition. 
He states that he took charge of an estate, some portions of 
it at a great elevation. The trees had not been pruned for 
some years, and were a mass of thick cross branches and 
matted leaves ; a man might have made a bed on the top of 
them. It would never have done to reduce these trees at 
once to mere primaries or parrot-poles. The course pursued 
was to saw out the cross branches, and open out the 
centre of the trees about eighteen inches in circumference; 
then to -take ofE and thin out about half the remaining wood: 
the effect was wonderful. They were afterward handled 
once or twice, and the result has been a very good crop, 
on a property which had not yielded a remunerative one 
for many years. This pruning also seemed to drive 
away the coffee-bug, and much reduced its ravages. Only 
during the three or four days of blossom-time is it advisa- 
able to stop pruning, otherwise much damage may be 
done, and the crop lost. After the blossom, and when it 
has set, all the more care is needed to prune with caution, 
the best branches being retained; while those which should 
have come off, even if they have crop upon them, must not 
be left. Sufficient pruning must be done to insure a supply 
of new wood, and to give health and vigor to the tree to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTBIES. 53 

mature its crop. It has been effectually proved that 
draining to prevent wash and waste of soil, and a system 
of manuring while the trees are still young and vigorous, 
tend to prolong the age of estates. There is no doubt 
that, under such a system, coffee-trees may have as long 
an existence as other evergreens; excepting, of course, 
such contingencies as over-bearing, attacks of grubs, the 
tap-root coming in contact with rock, or becoming rotten 
from swampy soil ; all of which bring the tree to premature 
decay. For that destructive scourge, the coffee-bug, the 
following remedy has been tried with great success : namely, 
— ^to apply saltpetre in a finely-powdered state, dusted 
over the tree when wet with rain or dew. 

Concerning manures much has been written ; but it is found 
by experience that those are the best which are in general use : 
these consist of bone-dust, poonac, guano, lime, salts, wood- 
ashes, burnt clay, pulp, and last, but not least, cattle-manure. 
Composts should be applied above the tree in semicircular 
holes ; they should be filled in with any prunings or vegetable 
matter at hand, and then covered by the loose top soil; 
the new earth from the holes should be used to cover the 
roots. The earth over the manure should be well trodden 
down, to prevent its being washed away by heavy rains, 
or turned up by careless weeders. The next process 
consists of picking, curing, and despatching the crop for 
market. When coolies are turned out for gathering or 
picking they are provided with what is called in planter- 
parlance a gunny-hag^ holding from two to three bushels; 
they have also smaller sacks fastened round their waist; 
into these they first collect the berries, and then fill the 
larger vessels. When fully ripe, the sooner the coffee is 
pulped the better, otherwise it heats and the color of the 
parchment is spoiled. In dry weather it is sometimes 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



54 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

necessary to sprinkle water over the cherry, and to let it 
soak for some hours to make it pulpable; since if passed 
through the pulpers in a dry state, it would be much cut 
and damaged. 

Amongst other items to be observed in the culture of coffee, 
the following are of important and practical value. The fruit 
should be gathered in when resembling ripe cherries ; it should 
then be measured and thrown into a loft above the pulper in a 
heap. It should be submitted to the first process of machinery, 
the pulper, within twenty-four hours after, if not immediately. 
The pulped berries may remain a day and a night, for the 
process of fermentation; the mucilaginous matter is to be 
then washed off. In an hour or so the coffee may then 
be removed for curing: it is there spread out thinly and 
exposed to the sun, which will in eight or nine hours 
absorb all the water, and leave the coffee fit for housing. 
When coffee is perfectly cured — ^M'^hich is generally ascer- 
tained by threshing out a few berries in one's hands, and 
seeing if it has attained its homy blue color — it is then 
fit for milling, which is the second process it has to undergo 
by machinery. Here the parchment and silver skins are 
dislodged from the berry, by means of the friction of a 
large roller passing over the produce in a wooden trough. 
It is then submitted to the fanner or winnowing machine, 
and the coffee passed through two or three sieves, when 
it comes away perfectly clean, and thus, being sized, hand- 
picked, and packed, it is forwarded by mules or railroad 
to market. 

A recent eastern traveller, Bickmore, informs us that 
in the large wooden storehouses where the coffee is received - 
from the interior, and kept for exportation, the rich aromatic 
fragrance given out by the berry differs much more than 
any one would believe from the ordinary fragrance to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 55 

which we are accustomed. Here it is stored in bags, 
jiist as it comes in from the plantations. "In order that 
I might see what superior coffee the Minahassa produces," 
he says, "the Kesident had several bags opened. I found 
the kernels, instead of being opaque, and having, as we 
usually see them, a tinge of bronze, were translucent 
and of a greenish-blue color. The best are those which 
have these characteristics, and at the same time are very 
hard. One of the first plants raised at Batavia was sent 
to Holland, where it bore fruit, and the plants from its 
seeds were carried to Surinam, where they flourished, and 
in 1718 coffee began to be an article of export from that 
port. Ten years later it was introduced into the French 
and English islands of the West Indies, having previously 
been successively introduced into Java and Holland. I am 
told that it was first brought here from Java by a native 
prince, and the remarkable manner in which it thrived 
having attracted the attention of the officials, more trees 
were planted. There has been a steady increase, both in 
the number of trees and in the quantity of fruit they 
have yielded; but yet not more than one-half the number 
are planted that might be, if the population was sufficiently 
great to take care of them. With such an enormous yield 
a large surplus is left in the hands of the government after 
it has paid the natives who cultivate it, the percentage to 
the chiefs, and the cost of transportation from the small 
storehouses in the interior to the large warehouses on the 
coast, from which it is put on board of vessels, for shipment 
to Europe and America." 

When Arabia enjoyed the exclusive monopoly of coffee, it was 
not suspected that one day the Island of Java would furnish 
for the use of the civilized world over 130 millions of pounds 
per annum. The selection of soil and situation best suited for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



56 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

the growth and culture of coffee in Java, differs little essential- 
ly from that of other oriental plantations. Yalleys lying between 
high mountains are preferred here for coffee-growing, because 
the soil which is washed down from the heights affords fresh 
food continually to the lowlands ; the valleys themselves are of 
the proper moisture, since the hills surrounding them attract 
the rain. 

The labor by which coffee is planted in Java and its produce 
collected is included among the oppressions or forced services 
of the natives, and the delivery of it into the government stores 
among the forced deliveries at inadequate rates. 

Previous to the year 1808 the cultivation of this plant was 
principally confined to the Sunda districts; there were but 
comparatively few plantations in the eastern districts, and the 
produce which they were capable of yielding did not amount 
to one-tenth part of the whole, but under the administration of 
Marshal Daendals this plant usurped the soil destined for the 
subsistence of the people ; every other kind of cultivation was 
made subservient to it, and the withering effects of a govern- 
ment monopoly extended their influence throughout every 
province of the island. 

In the Sunda districts each family was obliged to take care 
of 1,000 coffee-plants, and in the eastern districts, where new 
and extensive plantations were now to be formed on soils and 
in situations in many instances by no means favorable to the 
cultivation, 500 plants were the prescribed allotment. 

The United States and Holland are the principal markets 
for Java coffee, and it is distinguished into pale yellow and 
brown, varieties which depend on the curing and the age of 
the commodity, and not on the modes of culture or any differ- 
ence in the plants which yield them. 

The pale coffee is the newest and lowest priced, the brown is 
the oldest and most esteemed. Coffee stored in Java loses the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 57 

first year 8^, the second, about 5^, and the third, about 2^, 
after which it continues stationary and assumes a brown color. 
This is the hrown coffee of commerce. 

Eecent scientific discoveries have shown that the improve- 
ment caused by keeping Java coffee is owing to the evapora- 
tion of the caffeic acid, which is the principle that imparts 
the harsh, bitter, and astringent taste, which cannot be disguis- 
ed. It is very much the same change that takes place in fine 
brands of wine, which acquire their rich, mellow flavors only 
by age. Old government Java coffee has always been highly 
prized by epicures. Although there is some shrinkage in weight 
caused by keeping coffee for a length of time, still the great 
improvement and increased value more than counterbalances 
this loss. By carefully examining pale and brown Java coffee, 
much difference will be found in the smell of the raw bean. 
There is a particular spicy aroma about brown Java that the 
pale varieties never acquire until age has mellowed and chang- 
ed their appearance. 

There appeared a few years ago a work bearing the title of 
" Max Havelaar ; or, the Coffee Auctions of the Dutch Trading 
Company." The author wrote under the pseudonym of Mul- 
tatuli ; he was an assistant resident of -the Dutch government 
in Java. The book appeared in the form of » novel, and treated 
of the incredible extortions and tyranny of which the natives of 
the Dutch Indies, " that magnificent empire of Insulind, which 
winds about the equator like a garland of emeralds," are the 
Victims ; and how he tried in vain, while still in the service of 
the government, to put an end to the cruel oppressions that 
happen every day in those countries. Many considered it an 
interesting and captivating work of fiction, but the author 
maintained that it contained nothing but facts, and the govern- 
ment was challenged to prove the substance of the work to be 
false ; but its truth has never been disputed. It proves that 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



58 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 

what was written of the cruelties and sufferings of American 
slavery, as described in TJncle Tom^s Cabin^ are nothing in 
comparison to the sufferings from the system of forced labor in 
the Indies. It is full of eccentricities, and the characters in- 
troduced are original and amusing ; among others a Mr. Dry- 
stubble is described as the type of a Dutch coffee-broker, who 
knows all about coffee, and makes his life subservient to his 
vocation. It bears evidence throughout of having been written 
by a genius of that order which only appears at intervals, and 
it serves to throw some little light on the habits of the millions 
of natives who dwell in the islands of the Indian Ocean, where 
so large a portion of our supplies of coffee are obtained. 

Of late years there has been a growing desire to know more 
about the great coffee-producing districts in Java and Sumatra. 
The opening of the Pacific Eailroad and the successful opera- 
tion of the submarine cables have done much to bring about 
more frequent communication with these important countries. 
American merchants have not been slow in availing themselves 
of the advantages in becoming better acquainted with those 
who have established important houses in the East Indies, and 
the writer is particularly indebted to Mr. Charles Dunlop, of 
Singapore, and Mr. John Peet, of Batavia, for much valuable 
information concef ning the cultivation of coffee. Both of these 
gentlemen recently visited this country, and from their exten- 
sive experience they were enabled to give to those interested in 
the importation of coffee many interesting details concerning 
the manners and customs of the natives, and how the great 
traffic with the interior was conducted by their respective 
houses for their foreign constituents. 

Not far from Ayar-Bangis is the port to which the coffee 
raised in the valley of Kau, in the interior, is brought down, 
to be hence shipped in praus to Padang, where it is placed 
in the government storehouses and sold at auction four times 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 59 

a year, viz., in March, June, September, and December. 
Natal, about twenty-five miles north of here, is the chief 
port to which is brought the valuable coffee raised in the 
fertile valley of Mandheling, of which port Elout is the 
capital. Mr. Bickmore refers to a portion of Sumatra 
where the Musi makes a great bend to the south-west and 
the path leads eastward over a gently rising elevation, 
on the top of which is a large and most thriving coffee- 
garden, and near by are rice-fields which yield abundantly. 
"This garden has been very lately planted, and yet all 
the trees that are old enough to bear are nearly loaded 
down with fruit. The rice-fields show that an abundance 
of food could be raised here, and the only thing that 
is wanting is people to do the work. The elevated sit- 
uation of this country makes it very healthy for for- 
eigners. If any one could obtain a grant of land here, 
and also the privilege of bringing a large number of 
Chinamen, he would certainly realize a fortune, for coffee 
can be here cultivated with little care; and rice, the 
staple article of food among that people, can be raised 
in any quantity. Such a privilege could not be obtained at 
present, but the liberal tendency of the government of the 
Netherlands in India promises that it may be, at no distant 
time in the future. Such an enterprise would not have 
the character of an experiment, for the facility with which 
coffee and rice can be grown has already been shown on 
this plantation, and the cost of transporting it to Padang 
or Palembang would be very light. Sumatra undoubtedly 
contains large quantities of gold, but the true source of 
her wealth is not the precious metal she possesses, but the 
cups of coffee she produces." 

Of Brazil, the popular idea seems to have been, that it 
is a place of mighty rivers and strange-looking mountains, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



60 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

earthquakes, anacondas, alligators, with luxuriant fruits and 
flowers, palms, with gayly plumaged birds and monkeys. 
But it is all this and much more besides, — for its climate 
is perpetual summer, and its scenery the most beautiful 
known even to tropical regions. The empire of Brazil, 
although stretching over a territory nearly equal to one- 
half of the entire South American Continent, with a 
soil unsurpassed by any other in the world, yet num- 
bers only about ten millions of inhabitants. Like most 
tropical countries, it does not evince the enterprise and 
energy so characteristic of the dwellers in higher lati- 
tudes. The Emperor, Dom Pedro, is, however, undoubtedly 
inspired with progressive ideas, although his subjects seem 
as decidedly opposed to them; an apathetic indifference to 
all kinds of innovation or improvement holds them spell- 
bound to antiquated usages and obsolete forms. With a 
soil so fertile and a climate so genial, all that seems requisite 
is the enterprise of capitalists, and the application of the 
improved industrial arts, to render Brazil a centre of greatly 
increased and increasing commercial importance. The 
recent abolition of slavery by the Emperor in all Government 
or State works, by the substitution of free labor, is of itself 
a great advance in the right direction; and the ultimate 
extinction of slavery generally will be accomplished when the 
existing slaves shall have passed away, since their children 
are bom free. When the swift railroad shall have wholly 
superseded the slow mule conveyance, commerce will pro- 
portionably increase, because capitalists and free labor will 
yield a more profitable return. Kio de Janeiro is distant from 
New York about four thousand eight hundred miles; that 
distance, however, might be virtually much reduced by the 
establishment of more frequent intercourse with it by 
steamers. Railroads are already in operation, to some extent, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 61 

under the sanction of the government; and there are others 
projected. But we have not spoken of the remarkable beauty 
of the city, and especially of the Bay of Eio de Janeiro, which 
for picturesque scenery has been thought by some to rival 
even the peerless Bay of Naples. The former, which is en- 
tered by a narrow rocky portal, spreads out into an immense 
harbor, or inland lake, extending a distance of some score 
of miles, from north to south. Passing the Sugar^oaf at 
the entrance of the bay, you catch a view of the vast expanse 
of water and the distant succession of mountain-peaks which 
enclose it, and which form a magnificent amphitheatre. 
They are called the Organ Mountains, from their seeming 
resemblance to the pipes of an organ. Their height 
averages from six to seven thousand feet. The name Eio 
de Janeiro, literally, river of January, which is really a 
misnomer, it being a bay, not a river, took its rise from 
the tradition that it was discovered in that month, which 
is to the dwellers in that clime the hottest of their year. 
In close proximity with the city is the celebrated Botanical 
Garden, called Bota Foga, which is rich in all kinds of 
rare exotics, including the banyan-tree, and has a splendid 
avenue of palms. 

Brazil, indeed, has been called the land of the Cocoa 
and the Palm; but it may with eqnal propriety be also 
designated the land of the coffee-tree; since, as we have 
already intimated, it is the great producing country whence 
we derive our principal supply of that essential to our 
domestic economy. £ 

Coffee, although a native of the Old World, has long been 
one of the most important staples of the New. Meyen states 
that he even found some coffee-trees growing wild in Brazil, 
not far from Kio Janeiro, in the woods of Corcovado. It is the 
great commercial staple of the empire of Brazil, which, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



62 CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

beyond comparison, is now the greatest coffee- producing country 
of the globe. Java is the next in order, and although the lat- 
ter does not yet contribute one-half the quantity of the former, 
yet it furnishes nearly three times as much as other markets. 
The United States alone imported from Brazil, in 1871, over 
two hundred million pounds of Rio coffee. (See Taile,) 

The first coffee-tree in Brazil was planted in 1754, by 
Friar Yillaso, in the garden of the San Antonio Convent at 
Kio de Janeiro. Brazil was then governed by the Marquis 
de Lavradio, as Yiceroy. The first fruits of the tree were 
presented to the Marquis, who distributed them among the 
planters, explaining to them the advantages of adding another 
valuable article of produce to the country ; but, strong in their 
prejudices in favor of sugar and indigo, few took any pains to 
cultivate it, and the progress of increase was so slow and ^ 
gradual, that in 1808, when Don Joas YI. fled from Portugal 
to Kio de Janeiro, and soon after opened the port for foreign 
trade, the annual crop of coffee did not exceed 30,000 bags of 
160 pounds each. The increase until 1820 was very moderate, 
the crop then being about 100,000 bags. The high prices 
ruling in Europe, caused by the falling off in production and 
increase of consumption all over the world, stimulated the 
planters of Brazil to extend their cultivation of coffee, espe- 
cially as the price of sugar had declined, and indigo, from its 
inferior quality, became neglected ; also that much less capital 
was required for the cultivation of coffee. The importation of 
slaves at that time was great, prices low, and they were sold to 
planters on long credits, payment being received for them in 
produce. This enabled those of small means to buy estates. 
Crops being abundant, and favorable prices obtained, they 
were soon able to pay off their debts, and establish the custom 
of credit which was denied to sugar planters, as that staple 
became unprofitable when brought into competition with Cuba, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 63 

Porto KicOj and other sngar-producing countries. It is to be 
observed that while the cultivation of sugar was declining in 
Brazil, and coffee increasing and superseding it, in Cuba 
coffee was falling off rapidly and sugar annually increasing. 
We now find at the present time that there is hardly enough 
coffee raised in Cuba to supply the consumptive demand, 
and the importation of Java and Eio coffees has been found 
necessary to supply the increasing wants of the inhabitants of 
one of the principal producing countries of former times. It 
was not, however, until after the Haytian insurrection that coffee 
became an object of great cultivation and commerce in Brazil. 
In 1809 the first cargo, consisting of 1522 bags, was sent to 
Salem, in the United States, per ship Ma/rquis de SomervslaSj 
and all the coffee raised in the empire in that year scarcely 
amounted to 30,000 sacks, while in the Brazilian financial year 
of 1871 there were exported over two million sacks. 

The great importance which coffee has acquired of late years 
as a staple of commerce, very naturally suggests the inquiry as 
to the best means of still further promoting its culture. Since 
the sugar plantations of the West Indies have so largely super- 
seded those of coffee, attention has been directed to other geo- 
graphical points suited to its growth. Until the era of the 
French revolution, the cultivation of coffee could scarcely be 
said to have reached the South American continent ; till then 
it was in a great measure confined to Arabia and the Caribbean 
Archipelago. Its extreme scarcity during the Napoleonic wars 
enhanced its price so enormously, that on the first announce- 
ment of peace, in 1814, many coffee-plantations were formed on 
the Costa Firme of South America, along the Brazilian shores 
of that continent, and even on the southern coast of Africa. 
Not content, however, with the natural increase of the demand 
now so universally made for this important berry, France, 
England, and America seem to have entered into a friendly al- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64: CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VAEIOUS COUNTEIES. 

liance in endeavoring to stimulate yet further the production 
by means of premiums for the most improved machinery and 
inventive skill devoted to its culture and preparation. 

The great coffee region is on the banks of the Eio Parahiba 
and in the province of San Paulo ; but every year it is more 
widely cultivated, and a considerable quantity is now grown in 
provinces farther northward. It can be planted by burying 
the seeds or berries (which are double), or by slips. The 
plants which have been taken from the nui-sery with balls of 
mould around their roots will bear fruit in two years ; those 
detached from the earth will not produce until the third year, 
and the majority of such shrubs die. In the province of San 
Paulo and the richest portions of Minas-Geraes one thousand 
trees will yield from 2,560 to 3,200 pounds; in Rio de Janeiro, 
from 1,600 to 2,560. In some parts of San Paulo, one thousand 
trees have yielded 6,400 pounds; but this is rare. In the 
province of Pio de Janeiro, trees are generally cut down every 
fifteen years ; there are some cajters, however, which continue 
to bear several years longer. As a general rule they are not 
allowed to exceed eight feet in height, so as to be in reach. 
There are three gatherings in the year, and the berries are 
spread out upon pavements, or level portion of ground (the 
terreno)j whence they are taken when dry, and denuded of the 
hull by machinery, and afterward conveyed to market. 

In Brazil, coffee is planted in the following manner: "The 
fresh beans are sown generally in the shade of coffee-trees, and 
the little plants are taken up, with the earth about them, so 
soon as they have reached the height of twelve inches. They 
are so planted that the stems are from four to six feet apart. 
By cutting off the rankest shoots, the coffee-trees in plantations 
are prevented becofning more than twelve feet in height, that 
the fruit which ripens in the 20th, or even not till the 32d 
month after the transplantation, may be the more easily 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CULTIVATION OF COFFEE IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 



65 



plucked. After four or five years the crop is very good, and 
then one servant is kept for every 1,000 plants. The coffee- 
tree yields three crops annually, which furnish employment for 
almost the whole year. 




Digitized by 



Google 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

It may seem almost superfluous to devote a chapter to the 
discussion of the best method of making a cup of coffee ; but 
since more depends upon the manner in which it is made than 
is usually imagined, it may not be inappropriate to offer a few 
words upon the subject. 

We propose, therefore, to allude brie^ to the many modes 
which haV6 been resorted to for preparing and making coffee, 
both at home and abroad. While we do not deny the ad- 
vantages of many of the following methods, it is believed 
that the process of distillation, by the direct application of 
steam heat, as fully described in the closing remarks of 
this chapter, is eventually destined to be the universal favo- 
rite. First of all, before speaking of the manner of pre- 
paring the berry as a beverage, we will mention that the 
leaf of the coffee-plant is used in the Eastern Archipel- 
ago by the natives as a substitute for tea. They roast the 
leaves over a clear, smokeless fire, after which they are picked 
from the twigs, and when immersed in boiling water they form 
an agreeable drink. A few years ago the attention of the 
scientific world was drawn to this subject, in the first instance, 
by Brande, and subsequently by Ward, in his able papers 
published in the Singapore JFree Press and elsewhere. He 
seems to claim for roasted coffee-leaves a value unsurpassed by 
the berry itself. " It was well known," he says, " that they had 
been long employed in Sumatra under the name of coffee-tea." 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 67 

That this preparation contains a considerable amount of the 
nutritions element of coffee is evident from the analysis ; but 
as the leaves can only be collected in a good state at the expense 
of the cofPee-plantj it is doubtful whether the coffee produced 
by the berries be not, after all, the cheapest, as it certainly is 
the best. 

In Arabia we find the method of preparing and using coffee 
very interesting. Palgrave, in his recent work, gives full and 
entertaining descriptions of the manners and customs of the 
people and their great fondness for coffee. He thus describes 
an Arabian dwelling and their method of making coffee : — 

" The walls are colored in a rudely decorative way and sunk 
here and there into small triangular recesses, destined to the 
reception of books, lamps, and other such like objects. The 
roof of timber, and flat ; the floor strewed with fine clean sand, 
and garnished all around alongside of the walls with long strips 
of carpet, upon which cushions, covered with silk, are disposed 
at suitable intervals. In poorer dwellings felt rugs usually 
take the place of carpets. 

"In one comer, that farthest removed from the door, stands a 
small fireplace or furnace, formed of a large square block of 
granite or some other hard stone ; this is hollowed inwardly into 
a deep funnel, open above, and communicating below with a 
small pipe-hole, through which the air passes, bellows-driven, to 
the lighted charcoal; the water in the coffee-pot placed upon the 
funnel's mouth is thus readily brought to boil. This system of 
coffee furnaces is universal, and this comer of the dwelling or 
K^hawah^ as it is called, is considered the place of distinction, 
whence honor and coffee radiate by progressive degrees round 
the apartment; and hereabouts accordingly sita the master of 
the house himself, or the guests whom he especially delights to 
honor. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



68 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

" On the broad edge of the furnace stands an ostentations 
range of cofFee-pots, varying in size and form; some are very tall 
and slender, with several ornamented circles and mouldings in 
elegant relief. The number of these utensils is sometimes extra- 
vagantly great ; as many as a dozen at a time may be seen in a 
row by one fireside, though coffee-making requires only three at 
most. Five or six are considered to be the thing ; but when 
doubled it indicates the riches and munificence of the owner, 
by implying the frequency of his guests and the large amount 
of coffee that he is in consequence obliged to have made for 
them. Behind sits a slave, whose name is generally a diminu- 
tive, in token of affection ; his occupation is to make and pour 
out the coffee. On entering, it is proper to say ^Bismillah,' 
i. e., ^ in the name of God ; ' not to do so would be looked on 
as a bad augury alike for him who enters and for those within. 

" The guest then goes to the master of the house, each repeats 
once more his greetings, followed by set phrases of polite in- 
quiry. 

" Taking the honored post by the fireplace, an apologetical 
salutation is given to the slave on the one side and to his nearest 
neighbor on the other. The best cushions and newest-looking 
carpets have been prepared. Shoes or sandals are slipped off 
on the sand just before reaching the carpet; the riding-stick or 
wand, the inseparable companion of every true Arab, is to be 
retained in the hand, and will serve for playing with during the 
pauses of conversation. Without delay the slave begins the 
preparations for coffee, placing the largest of the coffee-pots, 
about two-thirds full of clear water, close by the edge of the 
glowing coal-pit, that its contents may become warm while 
other operations are in progress: Taking a dirty knotted rag 
out of a niche in the wall close by, and having untied it, he 
empties out a few handfuls of unroasted coffee, which are 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 69 

placed on a little trencher of platted grass, when all blackened 
grains or other non-homologous substances ^fare picked out 
After much cleansing and shaking the grains are poured into 
a large open iron ladle, which is placed over the mouth of the 
funnel, stirring them carefully round and round till they 
crackle, redden, and smoke a little, but withdrawing them 
from the heat long before they turn black or changed; after 
which they are put to cool a moment on the grass platter. 
Drawing between his trouserless legs a large stone mortar, with 
a pit large enough to admit the stone pestle, and pouring in 
the half-roasted berries, he proceeds to pound them with won- 
derful dexterity, never missing a blow, till the beans are 
smashed, but not reduced to powder. After these operations, 
which are performed with much seriousness and deliberation, 
a smaller coffee-pot is taken in hand, which he fills more than 
half with hot water from the larger vessel, and, shaking the 
pounded coffee into it, sets it on the fire to boil, occasionally 
stirring it with a small stick as the water rises, to check ebul- 
lition and prevent overflowing. Nor is the boiling stage to 
be long or vehement; on the contrary, it should be as light 
as possible. In the interim he takes out of another rag-knot 
a few aromatic seeds called heyl, an Indian product, or a 
little saffron, and, after slightly pounding these ingredients, 
throws them into the simmering coffee to improve its flavor, 
for such an additional spicing is held indispensable in Arabia. 
Sugar would be a totally unheard-of profanation. Last of all, 
he strains off the liquor through some fibres of the inner palm- 
bark, placed for that purpose in the jug-spout, and gets ready 
the tray of delicate parti-colored grass, and the small coffee- 
cups ready for pouring out. • All the preliminaries have taken 
up a good half -hour. Meantime the host and his friends have 
become engaged in active conversation, while the silver deco- 
rated swords proclaim the importance of the family who are 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 METHODS OF MAKING COFFER 

assembled ; presently a large wooden bowl full of dates, with a 
cup of melted btltter in the midst of the heap, is presented ; the 
host says, ' Semmoo,' literally, ^ pronounce the name,' of God 
understood ; this means, ^ Set to work at it.' Every one picks 
out a date or two from the juicy mass, dips them into the but- 
ter, and thus goes on eating till he has had enough. The slave 
now begins his round, tlie cofPee-pot in one hand, the tray and 
cups on the other. The first pouring out he miist drink him- 
self, by way of a practical assurance that there is no ' death in 
the pot ; ' the guests are next served, beginning with those next 
the honorable fireside ; the master of the house receives his 
cup last of all. To refuse would be a positive and unpardon- 
able insult ; but one has not much to swallow at a time, for the 
coffee-cups, or ^finjans,' are about the size of a large egg-shell 
at most, and are never more than half filled. This is considered 
essential to good-breeding, and a brimmer would here imply 
exactly the reverse of what it does in Europe. 

^' Be this as it may, ' Fill the cup for your enemy ' is an adage 
common to all Arabs. The beverage itself is Singularly aroma- 
tic and refreshing, a real tonic. When the slave presents you 
with a cup, he never fails to accompany it with a ^ Semni,' ' Say 
the name of God,' nor must you take it without answering 
^Bismillah.' 

" When all have been thus sei-ved, a second round is poured 
out, but in inverse order, for the host this time drinks first and 
the guests last. On special occasions, a first reception for in- 
stance, the ruddy liquor is a third time handed round ; nay, a 
fourth cup is sometimes added. But all these put together do 
not come up to one-fourth of what a European imbibes in a 
single draught at breakfast." 

With regard to the making of cofFee, there is no doubt that 
the Turkish method of pounding the cofFee in a mortar is 
much superior to grinding it in a mill, as is usual with us. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 71 

The fondness for cofFee in Turkey is shown by the constant 
use of the beverage on all occasions, and its exhilarating qual- 
ities are nowhere more highly appreciated. 

The great luxury of the Turkish bath — now no longer an ex- 
clusive Oriental custom, since its general introduction in this 
country and Europe — has one feature in the Orient that has not 
elsewhere been fully introduced. There the bather, after the 
fatigues of the bath, is conducted into a luxurious apartment, 
where comfortable divans and soft pillows invite him to tarry, 
and enjoy the " rest after toil," the dolcefar niente, the " sweet 
do nothing.'' Presently attendants enter bearing fragrant cof- 
fee served in delicate little china cups, which further adds 
to the rest and repose from all care, and at once fills the recip- 
ient with delight. We need but to introduce this^ Eastern cus- 
tom after bathing, for cofiFee, as already stated, is a stimulant 
which, unlike wine, does not enervate or excite the system. 

The Turks drink their cofFee very hot and strong, and without 
sugar. They occasionally use spices with it, such as bruised 
cloves, or aniseed, or a drop of the essence of amber. But after 
either method, the process recommended by M. Soyer may be 
advantageously adopted ; namely, " Put two ounces of ground 
cofFee into a stew-pan, which set upon the fire, stirring the 
cofFee round with a spoon imtil quite hot, then pour over a pint 
of boiling water; cover over closely for five minutes, pass it 
through a cloth, warm again, and serve." The chemist La- 
place explained to Napoleon the results of various methods of 
manipulation. " How is it, sir," said the Emperor, " that a glass 
of water in which I melt a lump of sugar always appears to me 
to be superior in taste to one in which I put the same quantity 
of powdered sugar?"— "Sire," said the sage, "there exist 
three substances whose elements are precisely the same ; name- 
ly, sugar, gum, and starch. They only diflFer under certain 
conditions, the secret of which Nature has resented to herself ; " 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

and I believe that it is possible that, by the collision caused by 
the pestle, some of the portions of the sugar pass into the con- 
dition of gum or starch, and thence arises the result which has 
been observed. 

In preparing the berry, connoisseurs in cofFee will, before 
roasting, wash the grains and dry them on a pan, placed near 
the fire or in a cool oven. While roasting they will stir 
them constantly, that all may be equally brown. Some persons 
think the aroma improved when the heat is not greater than is 
sufficient to impart a light brown color to the bean; others 
prefer the cofFee roasted to a dark brown; in adopting the 
latter, care should be used to avoid burning it. To produce the 
beverage in perfection, it is necessary to employ the best 
materials in its preparation,— ;/r<^A rodsted and fresh ground. 
With respect to quantity, at least one ounce of cofFee should be 
used to make three ordinary-sized cupfuls. The cofFee-pot should 
be heated before putting in the cofFee, which heating may be done 
by means of a little boiling water. When so prepared, the 
boiling water should be poured over the ground cofFee, and not, 
as is commonly done, put in first. When a percolator is not 
used, the liquor should be well stirred up several times before 
finally covering it up to settle for use. 

Liebig, after describing its properties and the various 
methods of preparing the beverage, recommends the follow- 
ing process, which seems among the best hitherto proposed ; 
namely, that three-fourths of the cofFee to be used be boiled, 
and the other fourth infused, the results being mixed. By this 
means both strength and flavor are insured. To preserve the 
flavor of the ground cofFee he recommends that the powder 
should be wetted with a syrup of sugar, and then covered with 
powdered sugar. The volatile parts of the cofFee are thus pre- 
vented from escaping. When cofFee has been roasted and is 
not to be immediately used, it should be placed in a dry situa- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 73 

tion, and excluded from the atmosphere as soon as possible, 
since it absorbs moisture from the air by its hygrometric power, 
and loses its flavor by keeping. To clarify coffee, the French 
sometimes sprinkle on the surface of the coffee half a cup of 
cold water, which, from its greater gravity, descends and carries 
the sediment with it. 

The French, who are celebrated for their coffee-making, use 
various kinds in combination, such as the following: Java, 
Mocha, Eio, and Maracaibo. These coffees are so delicately and 
in such due proportions mixed, as to produce a bouquet of aro- 
matic flavors. They sometimes add a little liqueur^ to flatter 
an epicurean palate. 

CafS-aU'lait — that is, three parts of milk to one of coffee — ^is, 
according to Dr. Doran, " the proper thing for breakfast ; but 
the addition of milk to that taken after dinner is a qruelty to 
the stomach." Yoltaire's favorite beverage was ^^ choca^^ — a 
mixture of coffee (with milk) and chocolate. Napoleon, it is 
said, was fond of this mixture. 

The " cafe noir " of the French is coffee made strong with 
water only. " Caf e-au-lait " must not be made by boiling coffee 
and milk together, as milk is not proper to extract the essential 
properties of the coffee, and coffee must first be made as " cafe 
noir," only stronger. As much of this coffee is poured into the 
cup' as is required, and the cup is then filled up with boiled 
milk. Caf 4 a la creme is made by adding boiled cream to 
strong clear -coffee and heating them together. 

Caf 4 glace is made by adding one egg to every six cups of 
cafe noir. Sweeten, and put in cream. When thoroughly 
mixed, place in a proper cooler surrounded with ice. It should 
be frozen to the consistency of rich thick cream, and, if properly 
made, will be found a delicious and refreshing draught. 

One of the most universal methods of making coffee is to put 
the fresh-ground coffee into a coffee-pot with a sufficient quan- 
4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

tity of water, which is set on the fire until it boils, and the cof- 
fee, if allowed time, will settle of itself — a mode adapted to 
early risers and those in no hnrry for breakfast. 

" If you want to improve your understanding, drink coffee," 
said Sydney Smith. Sir James Mackintosh professes that he 
believed the difPerence between one man and another was pro- 
duced by the quantity of coffee he drank I * 

Pope was among confirmed coffee-drinkers ; often calling up 
his servant in the night to prepare a cup of it for him. It was 
the custom in his day to grind and prepare it upon the table, of 
which practice he gives us the following details in verse : — 

" For lo ! the board with cup and spoons is crowned, 

The berries crackle, and the miU turns round ; 

On shining altars of Japan they raise 

The silver lamp ; the fiery spirits blaze. 
. From silver spouts the grateful liquors glide, 

While Ohina^s earth receives the smoking tide. 

At once they gratify their sense and taste, 

And frequent cups prolong the rich repast. 

Coffee ! — which makes the politician wise, 

And see through all things with his half -shut eyes I " 

Taken in moderation, especially if combined with sugar and 
milk, coffee is unquestionably the most wholesome beverage 
known. In a medical point of view, it has been regarded as a 
cerebral stimulant and anti-soporific, and an antidote to opium. 
As a medicine, it should be strong, and taken lukewarm. 

Coffee, when taken early in the morning before rising, some- 
times alleviates an attack of asthma or coughing, and thus 
proves of great service to many sufferers. Still it must not be 
forgotten that it is a stimulant, and if taken too strong, or in 
too great quantities, may give rise to nervous complaints ; and 
although for a time an aid to digestion, yet, if too freely in- 
dulged in, it will weaken the sensibility of the stomach and 

* The converse of the proposition would bear rather hard upon those persons 
whose constitutional proclivities prevent their use of the beverage altogether. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 75 

derange its functions. Diluents of any kind in large quantities 
relax the coats of that organ, and impair its efficiency. Notwith- 
standing all objections alleged against the use of this favorite 
exotic, it is constantly and extensively growing in public esteem 
as an exhilarating drink, possessing the good qualities of wine 
without any of its bad consequences. It is indeed a sign of the 
good time coming, that there have been opened in most of the 
great cities of Europe such numerous coffee-houses, where, in- 
stead of the dram-shop, operatives may regale themselves with- 
out becoming inebriates. Even in its early days, an old writer 
of the seventeenth century claimed for the beverage this virtue, 
when he thus quaintly descants upon its various claims : 
" Surely it must needs be salutif erous, because so many sagacious 
and the wittiest sort of nations use it so much. But besides the 
exsiccant quality, it tends to dry up the crudities of the stomach, 
as also to comfort the brain, to f ortilie the sight with its steeme, 
and 'tis found already that this coffee-drink has caused a greater 
sobriety among the nations. For whereas formerly apprentices 
and clerks, with others, used to take their morning's draught in 
ale, beer, or wine, which by the dizziness they cause in the 
brain, make many unfit for businesse, they use now to play the 
good-fellowes in this wakefull and civill drinke." 

The roasting of coffee in the best manner requires great 
nicety, since much of the quality of the beverage depends upon 
the operation. It is usually roasted in a hollow cylinder, made 
of perforated sheet iron, which is kept turning over a brisk fire, 
to prevent any part from being more heated than another, and 
when the coffee has assumed a deep cinnamon color, and an 
oily appearance, and the peculiar fragrance of roasted coffee 
is perceived to be sufficiently strong, it should be taken from 
the fire, well shaken, and suffered to cool. Not more than half 
a pound of coffee should be roasted at once for domestic use ; 
for if the quantity is greater, it becomes impossible to regulate 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

the heat in such a manner as to secure a good result. If the 
heat be so violent as to bum any part, the whole will be materi- 
ally injured. The coffee-roaster should never be filled above 
one-third ; for by roasting, the bulk of coffee is nearly doubled, 
and sufficient space ought to remain to allow of turning the 
coffee readily, that every part may be equally exposed to the heat. 

In Italy they roast coffee in small quantities, very frequently 
in one of the thin flasks of glass used for oil, which answer ex- 
tremely well if the roasting is performed over a charcoal fire, 
and the coffee shaken and turned often. The non-conducting 
power of the glass is thought to give this material an advantage 
over metal, as being less liable to bum ; added to which, the 
progress of the roasting can be better watched. One of these 
fiasks will roast somewhat less than a quarter of a pound at a 
time; and it is, perhaps, worth while mentioning that this 
mode is often found useful to the traveller. 

The grinding of coffee is performed by iron mills. A small 
portable mill is commonly used, but it is insufficient for the 
purposes of a large household, as it holds but a comparatively 
small quantity. When larger quantities are required in a 
family, a coffee-mill of a larger kind, requiring less labor, 
is fixed against the wall; the construction of the mill is 
about the same in both instances, and being familiar to most 
persons, need not be described. This is, indeed, an indispen- 
sable machine in domestic economy, as the goodness of the cof- 
fee depends much upon its being fresh-ground. Coffee ought 
to be ground suflSciently fine, in order that the water may be 
enabled to penetrate to the centre of the particles and extract 
those parts upon which the valuable qualities of the beverage 
depend. When coffee is very highly roasted, so as to develop 
the greatest quantity of bitter aroma without burning, it is ren- 
dered more difficult to grind, for it then acquires an oily surface, 
which causes the kernels to slip over each other, and hence they 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 77 

are not caught so readily by the teeth of the mill; but the 
powder, when obtained, is finer than if the coffee had been less 
roasted, because it is rendered more friable. 

lioasted cofiFee, as before stated, loses much of its flavor 
by exposure to the air; on the other hand, while raw 
it not only does not lose its flavor, but actually improves by 
keeping. That the fine aromatic fiavor of good coffee, which 
is one of its chief recommendations, depends upon some prin- 
ciple that is extremely volatile, a little observation will render 
evident. If a cup of the best coffee be placed upon a table 
boiling hot, it will fill the room with its fragrance ; but the 
coffee, when warmed again after being cold, will be found to 
have lost most of its flavor. The fragrance diffused through the 
air is a sure indication in what manner it was dissipated ; and 
therefore it is evident that in preparing coffee every possible 
endeavor should be made to preserve this precious part of the 
beverage. To have coffee in perfection, it should be roasted 
and ground just before it is to be used, and more should not be 
ground at a time than is wanted for inunediate use ; or if it be 
necessary to grind more, it should be kept close from the air. 
The best method of preparing a beverage from coffee, or, as it 
is termed, tnaTding coffee^ is a subject that has received a good 
deal of attention. 

To clear coffee rapidly, a variety of substances are used ; 
namely, white of eggs, isinglass, skins of eels or soles, hartshorn 
shavings, etc., for it is found that coffee not cleared has always 
an impleasant bitter taste. In order that the clearing sub- 
stances may produce their full effect, they should be dissolved 
before mixing with the coffee. In this manner, with good mate- 
rials in suflBcient quantity, and proper care, excellent coffee may 
be made, and most of the valuable properties of the coffee ex- 
tracted. 

The difficulty of making and clearing coffee has led to a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 

great variety of inventions, one of the most noted being Count 
Rumford's percolator, in which the ground coffee is compressed 
between two metallic diaphragms, so that the boiling water 
shall percolate slowly through the mass. TBere is also the 
Fountain coffee-maker, in which a body of steam, passing up- 
wards through the body of ground coffee, carries over the infu- 
sion, which collects in a chamber. 

Another apparatus is the pneumatic filter, by which the per- 
colation of the coffee is expedited and rendered more complete. 

Having thus shown the various methods and principles by 
which coffee is prepared in different countries, it inay not be in- 
appropriate to add that Yankee ingenuity has not been idle in 
trying to solve the problem as to how this beverage can best be 
made. There have been about one hundred and seventy-five 
patents granted by the United States Patent Office for coffee- 
pots alone, embracing every possible contrivance by which the 
bean can be prepared as a beverage ; and while so many are 
seeking this " arcanum," we find some of the devices both curious 
and ingenious. There is a patent granted for placing a furnace 
m the coffee-pot; another with curious strainers and attach- 
ments to receive the grounds; again another with arrange- 
ments to prevent lateral tipping when tilting the coffee-pot; 
patents for strainers connected with springs attached to the noz- 
zle ; others with hot-water jackets, and some with condensers 
in the lids to catch the aroma ; some to hold both coffee and 
tea, to be made at the same time in different compartments ; 
— and so the list could be continued at length, showing the 
claims of the many inventive geniuses who have given their 
attention to this subject. 

"We will conclude by referring to one of the latest patents, 
which, if Judged from its success and the praises it has received 
from those who have used it, is destined to become the general 
economizer and only true method of preparing coffee. Its con- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE. 79 

struction is very simple, consisting of an outer shell or reser- 
voir enclosing a plain co£Fee-pot, containing the coflfee with 
the required quantity of cold water. This is placed over a pan 
or receiver which boils water and generates steam. The steam 
envelopes and completely surrounds the inner pot containing 
the <x)£Fee and water, which gradually becomes heated, but never 
hoilsy thus perfectly distilling the coffee. By this process the 
coffee does not become black, bitter, or stale, and can be served 
at any time, with all the rich, oily, and fragrant aroma of the 
bean. As the inner pot is air-tight, coffee made in this way is 
stronger and incomparably superior in flavor to that produced 
by any other method. Nothing is lost in evaporation nor at- 
mospheric action; all the fine aroma and food properties are 
held in solution, and the coffee is extracted by the action of 
steam surroimding every part of the vessel containing the fluid. 
The bitter taste other methods produce and the oxidation of 
the acids are avoided, and the coffee always remains palatable 
and agreeable to the taste. This process requires no substance 
of any kind to clear the coffee ; the grounds settle at the bottom 
by their own gravity, after the rich properties of the coffee are 
fully distilled. It is perfectly pure, and is poured from the 
coffee-pot as clear as amber, and resembling wine. 

The infusion is superior as a beverage to that made by any 
other method yet discovered, besides consuming less coffee ; and 
as it is a simple and economical utensil, coming within the 
means of all who use coffee, it has the further advantage of hav- 
ing no complicated mechanism likely to get out of order, and 
diflScult to keep clean. If the advantages really existing in the 
last-mentioned system are once understood, the benefits reaped 
by aU the consumers of pure coffee throughout the world will 
more than realize the most sanguine hopes of philanthropy in 
extending the universal use of the beverage so palatable to the 
rich, so healthful and invigorating to the laboring classes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS. 

Coffee has been analyzed by various chemists, but the results 
of their analyses are far from being uniform. Raw coffee con- 
tains a yellowish-brown transparent extract, to which the name 
of caffeine has been given, and which constitutes the characteris- 
tic portion of coffee. Coffee also contains a resinous matter, an 
oil, or fatty substance, an aromatic principle, and some tannin and 
gallic acid. Six pounds of coffee give ninety grains of caffeine, 
a proximate principle remarkable for containing 21.54 per cent, 
of nitrogen, which is a larger quantity than is found in most 
other vegetables ; it is a crystallizable salt, of a bitter taste, pro- 
ducing an exhilarating effect when taken in four or five grains, 
such as is felt when good coffee is drunk. It was first discovered 
by Runge in 1820, and it is considered by Liebig as nearly iden- 
tical, if not quite so, with theine^ a principle existing in tea. 

Raw coffee contains about five per cent, of an astringent acid, 
— the caffeine, or coffee tonic, which does not blacken a solu- 
tion of iron, as the infusion of tea does, but renders it green, 
and does not precipitate solutions of gelatine. This acid is 
changed to some extent during the roasting, but stiU retains a 
portion of its astringent properties, and contributes in some de- 
gree to the effects which the infusion of coffee produces upon 
the system. 

But the coffee-bean contains about thirteen per cent, of nutri- 
tious gluten, which, as in the case of tea, is very sparingly dis- 
solved by boiling water, and is usually thrown away in the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 81 

insoluble dregs of the eofifee. Among some of the Eastern 
nations the custom prevails of drinking the grounds along with 
the infusion of the coffee ; in these cases the full benefit is ob- 
tained from all the positively nutritive matter which the roasted 
coffee contains. 

It has been found that 1,000 grains of the wood, leaves, and 
twigs of the cofFee-tree yielded 33 grains of ashes, or 3.300 per 
cent. The ashes consist of potass, lime, alumina, and iron in 
the state of carbonates, sulphates, muriates, and phosphates, 
and a small portion of silica. According to Liebig's classifica- 
tion of plants, the coffee-tree falls under the description of 
those noted for their preponderance of lime. Thus the pro- 
portions in the coffee-tree are — 

Lime salts 77 

Potass salts 20 

Silica 3 

100 

Coffee contains a considerable quantity of fixed oil and an 
astringent acid allied to the tannic. The following is the aver- 
age composition of raw coffee : — 

Woody matter 34 

Water 12 

Fatty matter 13 

Gum, sugar, and Caffeic acid 18 

Caffeine 2 

Azotized matter analogous to legumin 13 

Saline matter, essential oils, etc 8 

100 
It may be interesting to mention among the curiosities of 
chemistry, that a most magnificent purple dye can be prepared 
fi'om the alkaloid of coffee. It is analogous to the dye which 
produced the famous Tyrian purple, unsurpassed for its per- 
fection and permanence of tint. 
4* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



82 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

A higher aroma would make the inferior varieties of Ceylon, 
Jamaica, and Brazilian coffees nearly equal in value to the finest 
Javas ; and if the oil could be bought for the purpose of im- 
parting this flavor, it would be worth in the market as much as 
five hundred dollars an ounce. How it comes — ^by what slow 
chemical change within the bean, that causes coffee of the most 
inferior quality so to ripen by keeping as to become equal to 
Mocha — ^we do not yet know. 

Coffee is supposed to owe its refreshing character to this 
peculiar chemical principle. Caffeine. This substance belongs 
to the class of azotized basic bodies, and from its presence in 
two substances so dissimilar as tea and coffee, both of which 
are in such general use aU over the world, it may be supposed 
to be of no small importance to our animal economy. Liebig 
has shown that the composition of caffeine is closely related 
to that of various animal products, and that there is reason 
to believe that it may assist in the secretion of bile. A pound 
of coffee yields by sublimation, on an average, about 15 grains 
of caffeine. It may also be obtained from an infusion of 
raw coffee, when certain impurities have been removed by 
subacetate of lead, and the excess of lead by sulphuretted 
hydrogen. It forms white silky crystals, which are sparingly 
soluble in .cold water. It has a mild, bitter taste. The pe- 
culiarly refreshing and stimulating properties of coffee are 
developed in the roasting. It has been tested that coffee 
roasted to a pale brown color loses 12.3 per cent.; to a 
chestnut brown, 18.5 per cent. ; and to a black, 23.7 per cent. 

The chemical changes which heat produces in coffee, accord- 
ing to recent authorities, may thus be epitomized : the brown 
bitter substance and the aromatic principle are produced by the 
decomposition of that part of the coffee-bean which is soluble 
in water; and a large part of the caffeine disappears during 
the roasting. It is said that this (caffeine) is carried away with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OP COFFEE. 83 

the volatile products generated in the operation. By roasting 
coffee in an apparatus which allows of the recovery of all the 
volatile products, it has been ascertained that if it be car- 
ried away with the volatile products, it can only be in such 
small quantity as to be inappreciable by weight, and cannot ex- 
plain the considerable loss which takes place during roasting, 
carefully performed. The loss is experimentally found to 
equal nearly one-half of the caffeine originally existing in the 
coffee. M. Wurtz has demonstrated that the lost caffeine has 
been transformed into a volatile base methylamine, or methyl- 
ammonia (C^ Hj N). The following are the facts which prove 
the change of caffeine into methylamine during coffee-roasting. 
" If pure caffeine be submitted to the action of heat, and the 
vapor be carried through a tube heated to about 300° Centi- 
grade (about the heat which is necessary for roasting), and filled 
with fragments of pumice-stone, which delay the passage of 
the vaporized matters, only a feeble decomposition occurs ; the 
greater part remains unchanged, and the little that is decom- 
posed gives no characteristic product except cyanogen. This 
experiment tends to prove that it is not the caffeine which 
furnishes the volatile alkaloid existing in roasted coffee. But a 
very different result is obtained if, instead of acting on free 
caffeine, we experiment on caffeine in analogous circumstances 
to those in which it exists in green coffee. It is easy to extract 
the alkaloid from roasted coffee by distilling the extract of cof- 
fee, made with cold water^ with a weak base, such as lime. 
The addition of this alkali to an infusion of coffee immediately 
liberates the methylamine, the special ammoniacal odor of 
which is readily perceptible." 

In tea the proportion of volatile oil amounts to about one 
pound in a hundred of the dried leaf, but in roasted coffee it 
rarely amounts to more than one in fifty thousand ! And yet 
on the different proportions of this oil which they severally 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

contain, the aroma and the consequent estimation in the market 
of the different varieties of coffee in a great measure depend. 

The action of coffee on the human system is due chiefly to 
the empyreumatic oil, and consequently is greatest when roast- 
ed ; but its extractive and also nitrogenous principle, caffeine, 
must exert considerable influence upon the organs of digestion. 
" Coffee acts powerfully and peculiarly on the ganglionic system 
of nerve& and their ramiflcations, and all the organs which are 
supplied by them. It elevates the vitality of these nerves, and 
quickens all their actions. The brain is also, in a similar man- 
ner, acted upon by it ; and hence the increased sensibility and 
energy of that organ during the use of coffee, and the removal 
of all sense of fatigue and disposition to sleep. Upon this de- 
pends, in addition to its local influence upon the organs of diges- 
tion, the utility of coffee in counteracting the effects of narcotic 
poisons, such as opium or belladonna ; and the favor it has 
found among literary persons, from enabling them -to carry on 
their studies through the midnight hours without feeling op- 
pressed by sleepiness. It also excites the vascular system, and 
renders more powerful the contractions of all the muscles, both 
voluntary and involuntary." Its physiological effects upon 
the system, as far as they have been investigated, appear to be, 
that while it makes the brain more active, it soothes the body 
generally, makes the change and waste of matter slower and 
the demand for food consequently less. According to a recent 
authority, over seventeen hundred separate works have been 
published on that prevalent malady — indigestion — with specifics 
for its cure : notwithstanding this formidable array of specifics 
and prescriptions, we are backed by professional authority 
when we venture to suggest yet one more, to wit — a cup of 
good coffee, without the admixture of either milk or sugar. It 
is occasionally useful in relieving headache, especially the form 
called nervous. It has also been employed as a febrifuge in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC* 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 85 

intermittents, as a stomachic in some forms of dyspepsia, and as 
a stimulant to the cerebro-spinal system in some nervous dis- 
orders. Flayer, Percival, and others have used it in spasmodic 
asthma ; and Laennec says : " I have myself seen several cases in 
which coffee was really useful. The immoderate use of coffee, 
on the other hand, is said to produce nervous symptoms, such 
as anxiety, tremor, disordered vision, palpitation, and feverish- 
ness." We find the following remarks regarding the chemical 
properties of caffeine : " Mulder gave a grain of it to a rabbit ; 
the animal ate but little the next day, and aborted the day after. 
Liebig has suggested that it probably contributes to the forma- 
tion of taurine, the nitrogenized constituent of bile. Accord- 
ing to Lehmann, caffeine in doses of from two to ten grains 
causes violent excitement of the vascular and nervous systems, 
palpitations of the heart., and often intermission of pulse, sleep- 
lessness, and delirium." 

Dr. Hassall thus describes the structure of the coffee-seed : 
" Two parts are to be discriminated in the coffee-berry, and the 
testa or investment by which it is surrounded. The berry, 
previous to roasting, and even after it has been soaked for a 
long time in water, is hard and tough, in which respect it dif- 
fers from all those substances which enter into the adulteration 
of coffee, and which become softened by inimersion in cold 
water. The hardness is even retained subsequently to the char- 
ring, and is so great, that by this character alone the fragments 
of the ground and roasted coffee-berry may be readily distin- 
guished from those of chiccory. It consists of an assemblage of 
vesicles or cells of an angular form, which adhere so firmly to- 
gether that they break up into pieces rather than separate into 
distinct and perfect cells. The cavities of the cells include, 
in the form of little drops, a considerable quantity of aromatic 
volatile oil, on the presence of which the fragrance, and many 
of the active principles of the berry mainly depend. The testa, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

or investing membranCj presents a structure very different from 
that of the substance of the berry itself, and when once seen it 
cannot be confounded with any other tissue which has yet been 
observed entering into the adulteration of coffee; it is made up 
principally of elongated and adherent cells, forming a single 
layer, and having oblique markings upon their surfaces ; these 
cells rest upon another thin membrane which presents an indis- 
tinct fibrous structure." 

The seeds, improperly called berries, of Arabia or Mocha 
coffee are small, of a dark yellow color ; those of Java and the 
East Indies are larger, and of a paler yellow; while those of 
the West Indies and Brazil possess a bluish or greenish- 
gray tint. The dried fruits or berries are rarely imported; 
occasionally the seeds contained in their endocarp or husks, 
however, are met with in commerce. 

The practice of adulterating food originates with dishonest 
men, who take this means of underselling their honest neigh- 
bors in the same business ; and it is to the interest of all who 
prize integrity and fair dealing, to lend their aid in suppress- 
ing frauds which so generally affect the public health. Foreign 
substances, such as we describe, are mixed with coffee to in- 
crease the weight and bulk and reduce the cost, and every 
pound is a direct damage to consumers, who fail to realize the 
healthful effects of pure coffee. 

There are few articles of consumption which have been 
subjected to more extensive adulteration than coffee. The 
most prevalent adulteration is that of chiccory; and it has 
frequently been urged in extenuation of the fraud that chiccory 
improves the flavor of coffee ; but this opinion is not held by 
most chemists. Persons who have had their taste vitiated 
by using the two in combination, may even prefer it to pure 
coffee ; but, as Dr. Hassall remarks, " had they the opportunity 
of partaking of well-prepared and unadulterated coffee, they 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 87 

would not be long before they acknowledged the infinite 
superiority of the genuine beverage even as a matter of taste." 

If chiccory were an improvement when mixed with coffee, it 
ought to be good by itself ; but any one who has tasted the bit- 
ter, muddy, and nauseating infusion of this root is aware that 
only when mixed and partially disguised with coffee can it be 
drunk at all ; between the two articles there is no analogy what- 
ever; besides, chiccory has properties of its own which are de- 
cidedly injurious; when taken only in moderate quantities 
chiccory is not at first injurious to health, but by its prolonged 
and frequent use it produces heartburn, cramps, loss of appe- 
tite, acidity in the mouth, and cloudiness of the senses. It is 
the opinion of the eminent oculist, Professor Beer, of Yienna, 
that the continual use of chiccory seriously affects the nervous 
system, and gives rise to blindness, without any visible defect 
in the eyes except an immovable pupil. 

The ground coffee sold by the grocers is to a great extent 
adulterated. The principal substances used for this purpose 
are roasted chiccory and roasted beans, peas, and com. This 
fraud may readily be detected as follows: — "A spoonful of 
pure coffee, placed gently on the surface of a glass of cold 
water, will float for some time, and scarcely color the liquid ; 
if it contains chiccory, it wiU rapidly absorb the water, and, 
sinking to the bottom of the glass, communicate a deep 
reddish-brown tint as it falls. Another method of applying 
this test is by expertly shaking a spoonful of the suspected 
coffee with a wine-glassful of cold water, and then placing the 
glass upon the table. If it is pure it will rise to the surface, 
and scarcely color the liquid ; but if chiccory is present it will 
sink to the bottom, and the water wiU be tinged of a deep red 
as before. Eoasted com, beans, etc., may be detected by the 
cold decoction striking a blue color with tincture of iodine. 
Pure coffee is merely deepened a little in color by this sub- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

stance. Under the microscope, the presence of chiccory may be 
readily detected by the size, form, and ready separation of the 
cells of the cellular tissue, and by the presence and abundance 
of the pitted tissue or dotted ducts, and vascular tissue or 
spiral vessels. Eoasted com, and other amylaceous substances, 
may also be detected in the same way, by the peculiar size and 
character of their starch-grains." 

Chiccory is a wild endive, which is now extensively cultivated 
in Germany, France, Belgium, and some parts of England and 
the United States. Even chiccory itself is sometimes adultera- 
ted ; as we learn from Johnston, who says : " The coffee-dealer 
adulterates his coffee with chiccory, to increase his profits ; the 
chiccory-maker adulterates his chiccory with Yenetian red, to 
please the eye of the coffee-dealer ; and, lastly, the Venetian 
red manufacturer grinds up his color with brick-dust, that by 
his greater cheapness, and the variety of shades he offers, he 
may secure the patronage of the trade in chiccory 1 " After 
this little eospose, who will not be disposed to prize a gica- 
ranteed cup of pure coffee? Pure coffee, indeed, is a rarity. 
The so-called "Coffee extract" is almost universally found 
to be nothing but caramel — ^bumt sugar mixed with chiccory 
and a little Eio coffee : and this fabrication is the coffee one 
meets with usually on board steamboats or at railroad stations. 
The Germans use acorns ground up for coffee, and do not 
object to the drink. The roasted seeds of the water-iris are 
said to approach very closely in flavor to coffee itself. Sub- 
stances mixed with coffee, or substitutes for the berry 
altogether, have been tried with various degrees of success. 
Boasted acorns, when ground, have been made to pass for it. 
The infusion of the lupin does duty for it among the peasantry 
of Flanders; also that of roasted rye, one of the nearest 
counterfeits of coffee ; in the United States another adultera- 
tion is dandelion, which possesses also a soporific nature. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 89 

There are other substitutes for coffee besides roasted seeds of 
the water-iris : J:he chick-peaj beans, rye and other grains, nuts, 
almonds, and even wheaten bread, the dried and roasted roots 
of the turnip, carrot, and asparagus. Also, horse-beans roasted 
with a little honey or sugar ; the nut of the sassafras-tree, or 
the. wood cut into chips ; beet-root, sliced and dried in a kiln 
or oven ; and many more ; all of which, however, possess little 
or none of the exhilarating or medicinal properties of real 
coffee. 

Some years ago, it was scarcely possible to procure a 
sample of ground coffee that was not largely adulterated, 
no matter what the price paid for it ; and in some instances 
the coffee, so-called, consisted almost entirely of chiccory. 
In 1850, a firm in Liverpool actually took out a patent for 
moulding chiccory into the shape of berries; they appear 
to have been induced to do so in consequence of the exis- 
tence of a Treasury minute, which did not allow the sale of 
chiccory mixed with coffee, without printing the fact on each 
package sold. It has been asserted that in France and other 
continental countries the use of chiccory is almost universal. 
This statement Hassall regards as incorrect. He says, "We 
found that in all the good hotels in France and Germany the 
coffee served up was genuine, and did not contain a particle of 
chiccory ; but that it was largely employed, either separately or 
mixed with coffee, by poor persons and amongst domestics, for 
the sake of economy, — chiccory costing less than half the price 
of coffee." The differences, chemical and physiological, which 
exist between the two articles are thus given : " Coffee is the 
seed of a plant, and it contains essential oil, or caffeone, caffeic 
acid, and a peculiar principle termed caffeine ; each of these 
constituents possesses different and highly important properties, 
upon which the value of coffee mainly depends. 

" Chiccory is the root of a plant belonging to the family of the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



90 ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 

dandelions. It contains no essential oil, tannic acid, or alkaloid 
analogous to that of coffee. The chief constituents of which it 
is made up when roasted are a little gum, sugar partly burned 
and reduced to caramel, coloring matter, and insoluble vege- 
table tissue." It is evident, therefore, that by the admixture of 
chiccory with coffee, the active properties of the latter are 
reduced, since between the two articles there is no chemical 
analogy whatever. The same authority also refers to this 
subject of adulteration of coffee with another article named 
coffina, made and introduced, in 1851, into the English 
market. It was described as the seed of a Turkish plant, 
which was found to be highly nutritious. On subjecting it to 
examination with the microscope, it was ascertained to consist 
of the roasted seeds of some leguminous plant, probably a 
lentil. Of this article no less than eighty tons were offered for 
sale by a Scotch house at about $60 per ton ; that is, at about 
3 cents per lb. " On this single transaction the revenue would 
be defrauded of no less a sum than $22,200 and the public of 
at least four times that amount, namely, $90,000. The impor- 
tation of about 100 tons of lupin -seed from Egypt into 
Glasgow has led to the conjecture that this coffina was made 
from it — a conjecture, it is believed, correct." 

The adulteration of coffee in some cases alters and reduces 
so greatly the color and appearance of the article, as well as of 
the infusion made from it, that the use of coloring matters is fre- 
quently necessitated. One of these is burnt sugar, or sugar-house 
molasses, technically known in the trade as Black Jack. Another 
article, used sometimes to give increased color to adulterated 
ground coffee, is Yenetian red, or some other analogous ferrugi- 
nous earth. The adulterations of coffee are altogether indefen- 
sible ; and notwithstanding their frequent exposure, both at home 
and abroad, they stiU to a great extent continue to be practised. 
Some years since, roasted com, principally rye, was largely 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OF COFFEE. 91 

Bold, and employed to make a beverage which, by a fiction, was 
dignified by the name of coflfee; the chief argument, inde- 
pendent of price, urged in favor of it was its supposed 
nutritive properties. When it is recollected, however, that 
the starch of roasted rye is in part reduced to the condition 
of charcoal, it will at once be perceived that its nutritive 
qualities cannot be very great, aind that a single mouthful of 
wholesome hread contains more nourishment than a dozen cups 
of a heverage made from, roasted rye. The adulteration of 
coffee by substances so cheap, and, for the purpose to which 
they are applied, worthless as these, is a gross fraud, requiring 
emphatic condemnation, and, when ascertained to be practised, 
meriting exposure and punishment. The following tests for 
the detection of adulterations in coffee have been suggested: 
"The means to be resorted to for this purpose are of three 
kinds: namely, certain physical characters and appearances 
presented by adulterated samples ; the microscope ; and 
chemistry. By the first, we ascertain in some cases the general 
fact whether the sample is adulterated or not; and by the 
others, especially by the microscope, we learn the nature of 
the particular adulteration or adulterations practised. The 
first means consist in noticing whether the sample in the mass 
cakes or coheres, whether it fioats in water or not, and the color 
of the infusion. If the ground coffee cakes in the paper in 
which it is folded, or when pressed between the fingers, there is 
good reason for believing that it is adulterated, most probably 
with chiccory. If, when a few pinches of the suspected coffee 
are placed upon some water in a wine-glass, part floats and 
part sinks, there is reason to believe that it is adulterated — it 
may be either with chiccory, roasted com, or some other 
analogous substances. The coffee does not imbibe the water, 
but floats on the surface, while the other substances absorb the 
water, and gradually subside to the bottom to a greater or less 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



92 ANALYSIS AND ADTJLTEEATIONS OF COFFEE. 

extent. Usually, however, part of the coffee subsides with the 
chiccory, and a portion of the latter remains on the surfaae with 
the coffee ; and after the lapse of a short time, in general, both 
coffee and chiccory fall to the bottom. Again, if the cold water 
to which a portion of ground coffee has been added quickly 
becomes deeply colored, it is an evidence of the presence of 
some roasted vegetable substance or burnt sugar; for when 
coffee is added to water, it becomes scarcely colored for some 
time. Lastly, if in a few grains of coffee spread out on a 
piece of glass, and moistened with a few drops of water, we are 
enabled to pick out, by means of a needle, minute pieces of 
substance of a soft consistence, the coffee is doubtless adulter- 
ated ; for the particles of the coffee-seed are hard and resisting, 
and do not become soft even after prolonged immersion in water. 
When, therefore, any sample cakes into a mass, quickly 
furnishes to cold water a deep-colored solution, or is found to 
contain, when moistened with water, soft particles like those of 
bread-crumbs, there can be no question as to the existence of 
adulteration. The general characters of genuine ground coffee 
are, therefore, the reverse of the above." 

By these general means, and without having recourse to 
science, the observer is often enabled to state whether any sam- 
ple of coffee is adulterated or not ; but, in order to determine 
the character of the adulteration practised, we must employ 
either the microscope or chemistry. In the case of coffee, by 
far the most important information- is furnished by the micro- 
scope ; indeed, chemistry affords no certain means for the iden- 
tification of the majority of the vegetable substances employed 
in the adulteration of coffee, and, did it do so, it would hardly 
be required, since these may be so readily detected by the mi- 
croscope. It is known that the adulterations of coffee are 
always greatly increased by a high duty on the article, which 
makes the admixture of all farinaceous substances immensely 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ANALYSIS AND ADULTERATIONS OP COFFEE. 93 

profitable to roasters and dealers in prepared coffee. It may not 
be amiss to here state that one of the principal objects of this 
work has been to call the attention of all consumers of coffee to 
the pernicious effects of adulterations. Coffee now being on 
the free list, and paying no duty when imported directly from 
places of growth, there should exist no excuse to continue the 
adulteration of so necessary an article of food. If a little 
attention is given by large dealers and direct distributers 
throughout the country, in generally informing consumers of 
the economy of using pure coffee, it is believed that the busi- 
ness in chiccory, roasted rye, beans, peas, damaged ship's bread, 
stale crackers, bran, and all other such substances used by some 
coffee-roasters, will be greatly diminished if not entirely abo- 
lisked. All consumers who once become accustomed to the use 
of pure coffee will with reluctance use any substitute for the 
berry, for none has ever been found to possess the advantages 
of taste, flavor, and the invigorating and healthful qualities of 
unadulterated . coffee. 

Some twenty years ago, it was estimated that 18,000,000 
lbs. of vegetable matter of various kinds were sold annually 
under the deceptive name of coffee, while tliree-fourths of 
the amount consisted of chiccory. The various substances used 
in adulterating both chiccory and coffee, when sold in the 
powdered state, have been specifically pointed out as ingredients 
prejudicial to health. 




Digitized by VjQOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TARIFFS OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 



L 



UNITED STATES. 

1789— Section 1, Act July 1, 1789. 

Whereas, it is necessary for the support of government, for 
the discharge of the debts of the United States, and the 
encouragement and protection of manufactures, that duties 
be laid on goods, wares, and merchandises imported from and 
after the first day of August next ensuing, there shall be 
laid on all Coffee imported into tiie United States from any 
foreign port or place, per pound 2} cts. 

1830— By Act of Congress, May 20, 1830, Coffee placed upon the free 

list Free. 

1861 — ^Extract of Coffee subjected to a duty by Act of Congress, March 
2, 1861, section 24, under un-enumerated manufactured ar- 
ticles, to pay twenty per centum ad- valorem 20^ 

1861 — Eaw Coffee in the bean, by Act of Congress, August 5, 1861, 

shall pay per lb 4 cts. 

1861 — Eaw Coffee in the bean increased by Act of Congress, December 

24, 1861, Chapter IL , shall pay per lb, gold 5 eta 

1862— All substitutes (except Chiccory), by Act of Congress, July 14, 
1862, section 8 : — on Acorn Coffee and DandeUon root, raw or 
prepared, and all other articles used or intended to be used as 
Coffee, or a substitute for Coffee, and not otherwise provided 
for, shall pay per lb, gold 3 cts. 

1864 — Chiccory root, by Act of June 30, 1864, section II., raw, per lb, 

gold 4 cts. 

Chiccory ground, burnt, or prepared, per lb, gold 5 cts. 

1866 — Section sixth of Act passed March 3, 1866. On all goods, wares, 
and merchandise of the growth or produce of countries east 



, Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 TARIFFS OF VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 

of the Cape of Good Hope, when imported from places west 
of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centum, ad- 
valorem, in addition to the duties imposed on any such arti- 
cle when imported directly from the place or places of their 

growth or production 10;^ 

(This act took effect April 1, 1866.) 

1870— By Act of Congress, July 14, 1870, section 31, coffee reduced 

after January 1, 1870, to per lb, gold 3 cts. 

1873— Act of May 1, 1873, Coffee placed upon the free list from July 1, 

1873 Free 

1873 — ^Act of June 6, 1873, Ohiccory root, ground or unground, per Vb. 1 ct. 
On and after October 1, 1873, on all goods, wares, and mer- 
chandise of the growth or produce of countries east of the 
Cape of Good Hope, when imported from places west of the 
Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centum, ad-valorem, in 
addition to the duties imposed on any such article, if any, 
when imported directly from the place or places of their 

growth or production 10^ 

Total consumption in 1871, 316,609,765 lbs. 

GREAT BRITAIN. 

Note. — ^The duties on coffees in foreign countries have been reduced to XT. 3. gold, per lb 
avoirdupois, in conformity with the United States revenue laws in force at the New York Custom 
House. 

1660 — In this year we find the first mention of Coffee on the statute 
books of Great Britain, when a duty of four pence was laid 
upon every gallon of Coffee, made, and sold, to be paid by the 

maker. Equal per gallon to 8 cts. 

1789 — Coffee from British possessions 31 cts. 

Coffee from East Indies 49 cts. 

Total consumption, 930,141 lbs. 

1801 — Coffee from British possessions 35 cts. 

East Indies 63i cts. 

Total consumption, 750,000 lbs. 

1830 — Of any British possession in America or Africa 24 cts. 

From any place within the limits of the East India Co.*s charter 36 cts. 

All others 60i cts. 

Total consumption, 7,000,000 R)s. 
1835 — Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India Company'^ Charter, or of Sierra Leone 13 cts. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TARIFFS OF. VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 97 

Imported from any British possession within the limits of the 

East India Company's Charter, not being the produce thereof. 18 cts. 

Imported from any other place within those limits. 25 cts. 

Otherwise T 30 cts. 

Total consumption, 23,000,000 lbs. 

1840 — Of any British possession in America or within the limits of the 

East India charter or Sierra Leone 12^ cts. 

Imported from any British possession within the limits of the 

East India Charter, not being the produce thereof 19 cts. 

Imported from any place within those Hmits 25f cts. 

Otherwise Sl-ft" cts. 

Total consumption, 28,000,000 lbs. 

1857— Raw from all parts 6 cts. 

Kiln -dried, roasted and ground 8 cts. 

Total consumption, 34,334,000 lbs. 

1871 — Same rates '. 6 cts. 

Estimated total consumption in 1871, 40,000,000 lbs. 

The above are some of the most important changes in the tariff of Great 
Britain. 

FRANCE. 

1872 — Coffee, present duty per lb .- 5^ cts. 

Coffee in French vessels 4i cts. 

SPAIN. 

Coffee the produce of, and coming direct from any Spanish 
possession , If ct. 

Coffee the produce of, and coming from foreign countries 2^ cts. 

Extract, Essence, and other compounds of Coffee, fifteen per 
cent, ad-valorem 15^ 

PORTUGAL. 

Coffee in the shell If ct. 

Coffee cleaned 2^ cts. 

All imitations, including chiccory, also Coffee roasted or ground 2-fiy cts. 

TAKIPP ON EXPOKT OP COLONIES. 

Coffee from Cape Verde 1 ct 

Coffee from Angola i ct. 

Coffee from St. Thome and Principe -J ct. 

ITALY. 
Coffee of all kinds 4"rt?o cts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



98 TARIFFS OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 

GERMAN ZOLLVBREIN. 

Coffee, green 3f cts. 

Coffee, roasted 5 cts. 

AUSTRIA. 

Coffee, green 3 J cts. 

Coffee, roasted or burnt 4i cts. 

On all substitutes SJ cts. 

SWITZERLAND. 
Coffee 3 cts. 

BELGIUM. 

Coffee, green : 1^ ct. 

Coffee, roasted If ct. 

DENMARK. 

Coffee 2^ cts. 

Extracts, forty per centum ad-valorem 40^ 

NORWAY. 

Coffee 4^ cts. 

Extracts, forty per centum ad-valorem 40jl^ 

SWEDEN. 

Coffee 3f cts. 

On any preparation or substitute 4 cts. 

RUSSIA. 
Coffee in the bean 3 cts. 

TURKEY. 
Coffee, eight per centum ad-valorem 8^ 

VICTORIA (AUSTRALIA). 
Coffee and chiccory 4 cts. 

NEW SOUTH WALES. 
Coffee and chiccory 4 cts. 

NEW ZEALAND. 
Coffee 6 cts. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TARIFFS OF VAEIOUS COUNTRIES. 99 

BRITISH COLUMBIA. 
Coflfee, raw 3 cts. 

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 
Coflfee 3 cts. 

JAMAICA. 
Coflfee 5 cts. 

BRITISH HONDURAS. 
Coflfee 2 cts. 

ISLAND OF ST. CROIX 
Coffee, twelve and one-haJf per cent, ad-valorem 12iJ^ 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC. 
Coffee, twenty-five per cent, ad- valorem 25^ 

CHINA AND JAPAN. 
Coflfee Free 

CEYLON. 
Coflfee Free 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 

Tahlc showing the Imports and Gcmsumption of Coffee in tlie. 
United States. 



1871. 

1870. 

1869. 

1868. 

1867. 

1866. 

1865. 

1864. 

1863. 

1862. 

1861. 

1860. 

1859. 

1858. 

1857., 

1856. 

1855., 

1854.. 

1853., 

1852.. 

1851., 



IMPOBTS. 



322,700,479 
282,540,737 
242,609,255 
238,012,079 
226,322,811 
165,392,983 
133,574,397 
145,304,957 
75,269,417 
98,558,680 
182,244,627 
185,779,689 
248,527,306 
227,656,186 
217,871,839 
230,913,150 
238,214,533 
182,473,853 
193,112,300 
'205,642,855 
216,043,870 



lbs. 



CONSUMPTION. 



280,911,672 '' 

243,441,117 '* 

223,200,937 " 

203,606,671 " 

159,918,881 ** 

128,146,356 '' 

109,086,703 " 

79,719,641 " 

88,989,911 " 

187,045,786 " 

177,111,993 ** 

226,610,300 " 

251,255,099 " 

172,565,934 *' 

218,225,490 '' 

218,378,287 " 

179,481,083 '' 

175,687,790 "• 

204,991,595 '' 

184,225,700 " 



Digitized by 



Google 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 



101 



TabU showing the Consumption of the Ports of the United 

States. 



IJlKES fbom 


1871. 


1870. 


1869. 


1868. 


New York 


157,842,920 lbs. 
88,252,945 " 
84,647,550 " 
9,227,700 " 
6,441,130 " 
21,197,520 " 


151,901,952 lbs. 

81,365,545 •' 

26,116,970 " 

8,394,560 " 

1,941,945 »' 

11,190,700 »» 


148,595,172 lbs. 
66,731,710 " 
19,676,312 " 
6,457,963 « 
4,347,420 " 
7,632,&«) " 


148,220,831 lbs. 
39,890,900 " 
17,248,880 " 
4,705,046 " 
8,030,360 " 
5,104,920 " 


New Orleans 


Philadelpliia 

Other Ports 


Total 


816,609,765 " 


280,911,672 " 


243,441,117 »» 


223,200,937 '' 



Increase 1871 over 1870 85,698,093 lbs. 

1870 " 1869 37,470,555" 

" 1869 " 1868 20,240,180" 

Total increase three years 93,408,828 lbs. 



Table showing the Consumption of the various hinds of 
Coffee in the United States for the year 1871. 

Of BrazU 244,809,600 lbs. 

Of Java, Siimatra, and Singapore, inolnding receipts 

direct and from Europe 27,776,000 '* 

Of Maxacaibo 14,784,000 ** 

Of Laguayra 8, 064, 000 ' ' 

Of Ceylon 5,824,000 " 

Of St. Domingo 4,144,000 " 

Of Other West Indies .. : 4,480,000 '' 

Of Central American, Mexican, and other foreign 6,728,165 " 

316,600,765 lbs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 



STATISTICAL TABLES OF COFFEE. 



Table showing the Shipments of Coffee from the Ports of 
Rio de Janeiro and Santos, 





XJNITED STATES. 


l&UItOPE. 




From Rio de Janeiro 1871-2 


172,804,960 lbs. 


89,364,160 lbs. 


10,701,440 lbs. 


" " " 1870-1.... 


238,106,880 ** 


157,110,080 " 


10,380,000 " 


" - " 1869-70... 


186,296,480 " 


125,891,620 " 


11,347,200 - 


From Santx)s 1871-2 


12,825,440 " 


41,630,080 " 




1870-1.... 


12,288,160 " 


50,178.080 " 




1869-70... 


. 13,334,400 '* 


64,777,600 " 





Table showing the yearly a/verage Prices of Coffee at 
JVew York. 



Brazil, Fair to Prime Cargoes. 

Java, Bags and Mats 

Maracaibo and Lagoayra 

St. Domingo 



1871. 



eta, 
15,-o'(jper.lb. 



18^0. 



cts. 
16f,ii,-per.lb. 



cts. 
15/oi-per.lb. 

1*1% " 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETURN TO: CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 
198 Main Stacks 


LOAN PERIOD 1 
Home Use 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 

Renewals and Recharges may be made 4 days prior to the due date. 
Books may be renewed by calling 642-3405. 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW. 


JUN 1 5 ZOO 


3 

































































FORM NO. DD6 
50M 5-02 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
Berkeley, California 94720-6000 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL LIBRARY -U.C. BERKELEY 



YC 6163 



BQ00ia7M73 




Digitized by VjOOQIC 



