; m 






GRAND RAPIDS 



>',/■■ 



ECEIPT 



--. (3 



OOK, 



COMPILED BY THE 



: Cailito rf the ^attjwgatimtal w\wt\\> 




—FOR THE- 



Iff FAIR, HSLD AI LUCE'S KALI KAY 13ft, IBfh. and 17ft, 1571, 






REVISED AND ENLARGED. 



PRICE, $1,00. 



PUBLISHED FOR THE COMMITTEE BY H. M. HINSDILL. 

1873. 



T X 



: ■:: 



ing to act of Congress, in the year 1873, by Mrs. W. D. Foster, in tb 
office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



wT5i 



J LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.?' 

$ ^ # 

jrfhHpf. AiMMmmht to. 

* ^ Pa cj 

j ^7^ .. ,..b.l5i 

! UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. { 



GRAND RAPIDS 



% 



(.. J 



jECEIPT 



OOK, 



COMPILED BY THE 



'dip of tfje {|mtii^twml ^l\\m\\> 



—FOR THE-- 



LADIES' FAIR, HELD AT LUCE'S EALL KAY 15th. 161k, and 17th, 1071, 



BE 






REVISED AND ENLARGED. 

PRICE. $1,00. 

■ ♦ — » 

PUBLISHED FOR THE COMMITTEE BY H. M. HINSDILL. 

1ST:*. 




4*> 



PREFACE 



Several months ago, some of the Ladies of the First 
Congregational Church in this city desiring to raise 
some money for a good purpose, compiled a Receipt 
•Book. 

It met with so large a sale and became so popular that 
it has been thought best to revise and enlarge it. 

Our object has been not to give our friends an original 
Receipt book so much as a reliable one. We have nearly 
doubled in this edition the number of receipts, and they 
have all been tried again and again by experienced house- 
keepers. 

Of course our further object has been to get good as well 
> as do good. While we may be doing but a very humble 

work in publishing a Receipt Book, we cannot but ac- 
1 knowledge that much happiness depends on good food 

well cooked, so we believe this book will do good. We 

get good by devoting the profits arising from the sale of 

it to Christian purposes. 



Bermuda Cake. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup each, sugar, milk and butter, 1ft fruit, 4 
raisins, £ citron, 1 tablespoon each soda, cloves and cinnamon, 1 
nutmeg, 3 eggs, 4 cups flour. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Lemon Cake. 
1 teacup butter, 3 of sugar, 5 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup milk, 

1 teaspoon soda, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 4 cups sifted flour. 

M. McCONNELL. 

Snow Cake. 
1£ teacups tine sugar, 1 of flour, 1 small teaspoon cream-tartar 
whites of ten eggs ; flavor to taste. M. McCONNELL. 

Soda Cake. 
1 cup butter, 2 of sugar, 4 of sifted flour, 4 eggs — whites and 
yolks beaten separately, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cream-tartar mixed 
with the flour, ^ teaspoon soda dissolved in a little water, and put 
in last ; flavor with lemon. Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 

Raisin Cake. 
1 cup each sugar, butter, molasses, sour milk and chopped raisins, 

2 eggs, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, half a nutmeg. Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 

Ginger Cookies. 

1 cup each of butter, sugar, molasses and thick milk, 2 teaspoons 
soda and one of ginger, flour enough to mould — not hard. 

Nut Cakes. 

2 cups sugar, 1 of sour cream, 2 of sour milk, 4 eggs, salt, and 
season to taste, 2 small teaspoons soda, flour enough to roll out 
nicely— not too stiff. Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 

Rich Cup-Cake. 

3 cups sugar, 1| of butter, 1 of sweet milk, 5 cups flour, 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 bowl raisins, citron ; keeps a long time. 

Mrs. WM. CLARK. 



G-inger Crisps. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups butter, 1 tablespoon soda, 2 

tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon alum. 

Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

"White Cake or Chocqlate. 

3 cups sugar, 5 of flour, 1 of butter, 1 of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons 
cream-tartar, 1 teaspoon (small) soda, or 3 of baking powder, whites 
of 12 eggs. 

Frosting. — Whites of 6 eggs, §• sugar to ^ chocolate, put between 
the layers and on the top. Mrs. B. A. HARLAN. 

Cookies. 
5 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour cream 
or milk, \ teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon caraway seed or other flavoring. 
Roll thin and sprinkle on sugar. Mrs. H. STEVENS. 

Sugar Cookies. 

1 cup of butter, 2 of sugar, 1| of water, \ teaspoon of soda; flavor 
with a little nutmeg, almond or lemon, make as soft as possible, roll 
thin and spread a little sweet milk over each one and sprinkle with 
sugar. Mrs. H. STEVENS. 

French Loaf Cake. 
5 cups sugar, 3 cups butter, 2 cups milk, 10 cups flour, 6 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in milk, warm, 1 nutmeg, lib raisins, £lb 
citron ; beat the whites and yolks separately. 

Mrs. H. STEVENS. 

Troy Puff Cake. 

2 cups sngar, \\ cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2-\ cups flour, 3 
eggs, 1 teaspoon cream-tartar, £ teaspoon soda. 

Mrs. E. G. GREGORY. 

Hickory-Nut Cake. 

1£ cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup 
hickory-nuts, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, £ teaspoon soda. Mrs. E. G. GREGORY. 

Brides Cake. 
1£ cups of sugar, \\ cups flour, \ cup butter, \ cup milk, £ cup 
corn starch, \\ spoon baking powder, whites of 8 eggs, season to 
taste. Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 



No. 1. Orange or Lemon Cake 
£ tumbler sweet milk, 1 tumbler sugar, 2 tumblers flour, 2 eggs, 4 
tablespoons melted butter, 2 teaspoons bakiug powder ; bake in thin 
sheets, with frosting flavored with one grated orange or lemon. 

Mns. E. G. GREGORY. 

Chocolate Cake. 

£ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, £ cup sweet milk, 2-£ cups flour, whites 
of 8 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, -£ teaspoon soda ; bake in shallow 
pans. 

For TnE Frosting. — Take the whites of 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons of 
sugar and 1 tablespoon of grated chocolate (confectioners') to one 
egg ; put the cake together with the frosting. Mrs. STEVENS. 

White Sponge Cake. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, £ teaspoon baking powder, add the whites 
of teu eggs beaten very lightly ; bake in a quick oven ; flavor to taste 

Mrs. 0. B. ALLYN. 

Cream. Cakes. 

6 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, £ pint hot water, 5 eggs; boil the water 
and butter together, stir in the flour while it is boiling ; let it cool, 
then add the eggs well beaten. Mrs. C. B. ALEYN. 

Jelly Cake. 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, | cup sweet milk, £ teaspoon 
soda in milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, in flour enough to make the 
whole as thick as a good batter ; 1 teaspoon flavoring extract. 

Mrs. M. L. SWEET. 

Delicate Cake. 
1 coffeecnp sugar, \ coffeecup butter, 1 coffeecup flour, whites of 4 
eggs. Mrs. M. L. SWEET. 

Mountain Cake. 

4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 4 cups Houjj 
1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream tartar; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. M. L. SWEET. 

Sponge Cake. 
1 teacup sugar, 1 teacup flour, 1 tablespoon milk with the yolks 
and sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, three eggs. 

Miss LUCY SMITH. 



8 



Election Cake. 
3 cups milk, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup yeast ; stir to a batter, and let 
stand over night ; in the morning, add 2 cups sugar, 2 cups butter, 
3 eggs, t nutmeg, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, lib raisins. 

Miss LUCY SMITH. 

Piccolomini. 
1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 5 eggs, 1£ 
teaspoons baking powder. Miss L. SMITH. 

Soft Gingerbread. 
1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg — beaten 5 minutes ; add 3 
tablespoons water and 3 of sweet milk ; stir, and add 1 cup of flour ', 
then add 3 tablespoons melted butter and one more cup of flour. 

Mrs. II. S. SMITH. 

Pound Cake, 
lib sugar, $lb butter — beaten to a froth, 8 eggs — yolks and whites 
beaten separately, lib sifted flour ; stir all together, 30 minutes or 
longer ; flavor to taste. Mrs. SAMUEL JUDD. 

Loaf Cake. 
} pint yeast, 3 lbs lard, 5 lbs raisins, mixed with 10 lbs flour ; raise 
over night ; in the morning add 3 lbs butter, 6| lbs sugar, 18 eggs. 
nutmeg, mace and cinnamon ; raise 2 hours, then add ^ cup cream or 
milk, with teaspoon of soda dissolved in it ; bake in slow oven- 
Makes 10 loaves, and will keep all winter. 

Mrs. SAMUEL JUDD. 

Stonington Cake. 

3 cups sugar, 2cups batter, 5 cups flour, 1 cup .milk, 4 eggs, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 nutmeg ; fruit as you please. Makes 2 
large loaves. Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 

Another kind of Cookies. 
1£ cups sugar, | cup butter, 1 egg, -£ cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 
teaspoons cream tartar, spices. Mrs. C. B. ALLYN. 

Bread Cake. 

5 cups raised dough, 3 cups sugar, 2 cups butter, 1 cup 
sour cream, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon socla ; mix well together, and if nec- 
essary add more flour ; flavor to taste ; add fruit if you like, very 
nice. Mrs. C. 0. ROOD. 



Fried Cakes. 
2 quarts of flour, 1 cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 1 egg 
1 pint sweet milk, 2 tablespoons baking powder thoroughly mixed 
with the flour. Mrs. 0. S. CAMP. 

Queens Cake. 
:) cups white sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, G eggs, 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 1 of soda, or 1 heaping teaspoon baking pow- 
der in 4| cups sifted flour. This quantity will make 2 cakes, one of 
which can be made into a jelly cake. Flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 

Crullers. 
1 egg, 1 tablespoon melted lard, 1 tablespoon sugar ; mix hard, roll 
thin ; cut in squares with slits to run the Angers through ; fry in hot 
lard. You can increase the quantity as many times as you like. 

Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 

Cape Ann Berry Cake. 
4 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 quart sweet milk, 1 tablespoon salt, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, 5 pints whortleberries, or other berries ; 
flour to form a thick batter ; to be baked in a dripper : cut in squares 
for the table, and serve with butter for tea. 

Mrs. WM. M. FERRY, 

Grand Haven. 

New Haven Loaf Cake 
8 lbs flour, 6 lbs sugar, 3 lbs butter, 1 lb lard, 10 eggs, 1 quart milk 

1 quart yeast, \ pint brandy, \ pint wine, 1 ounce mace ; mix flour> 
lard, yeast, eggs, brandy, wine, and 1 quart of sugar together, and 
let it rise. When light, add with the other ingredients 2 lbs citron, 

2 lbs raisins, 1 lb currants. After it is raised the second time, 
without stirring the mixture, put into pans as carefully as 
possible; allow it to stand a few moments before putting it into the 
oven. (Most excellent.) Mrs. WM. M. FERRY, 

Grand Haven. 

Imperial Cake. 
2 cups pulverized sugar, \ cup butter, § cup sweet milk, 3 cups of 
flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups of seeded raisi us chopped and dredged 
with flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder in the flour, 2 ten- 
spoons powdered mace, the meats from 1 lb of english walnu's 
broken in quarters. First put in your dish a layer of cake, upon 



10 



that a layer of raisins and then a layer of nuts; stir raisins and nuts 
not mixed lightly into the remainder of the cake ; fill dishes and 
bake. Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 

Frosting. 

Whites of 4 eggs, 1 lb powdered white sugar, lemon, vanilla or 
other flavoring ; throw a small handful of sugar on the eggs soon as 
you begin beating, and keep adding at intervals until it is all used 
up. Icing made in this way will dry in two hours. 

Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 

Eureka Pound Cake 

1 lb sugar, 1 lb flour, \ lb butter, G eggs beaten separately, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda in the milk, 2 teaspoons cream tarta r 
ii the flour, flavor to taste. Mrs. 0. S. CAMP. 

Lemon Cake, No. 2. 

2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 4 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, 1 heaping 
teaspoon baking powder ; bake in sheets with the following mixture 
Spread between each layer. The grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, and 
t lie whites of 2 eggs beaten with \ cup sugar. Mrs. 0. S. CAMP. 

California Loaf Cake. 

2 cups of butter. 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 5 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda, 3 tablesp >ons cinnamon, 2 cups raisins, 1 cup cur- 
rants. Mrs. 0. S. CAMP. 

Temperance Gingerbread. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon ginger : make about as thick as cup cake. 

Mrs. O. S. CAMP. 

New England G-inger Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2-' cups brown sugar, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon ginger, \ 
glass tart cider, \ cup sour milk, h teaspoon soda, 4 cups flour. 
To be eaten v. arm. Mrs. PIERSON, 

Ionia. 
Gingerbread. 
■ 1 cup molasses, \ cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in § cup 
boiling water, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 egg; do 
not stir stiff, and bake slow. Miss ALICE J. FRALICK. 



11 



White Cake with Eggs. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, powdered, 4 cups flour, 1 tumbler new 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, whites of 6 eggs 
flavor with mace. Mks. PECK. 

Hickory Nut Puffs. 

2 tablespoons flour, 2 oz. melted butter, 2 oz., sugar, 2 oz. hickory 
nuts, 1 small teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. II. D CARPENTER. 

Coffee Cake. 

1 cup cold coft'ee, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, A 
cup butter, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, allspice and cinamon. 

Mrs. JUDD. 

Delicious Cake. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, o eggp, £ 
teaspoon soda, scant teaspoon cream tartar, stir butter and sugar to- 
gether, and add the beaten yolks of the eggs, then the whites; rub 
cream tartar in the flour last thing. E. E. J. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, § cup sweet milk, whites 
of 8 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons 
whisky ; bake in thin cakes ; put together with a thin frosting of 
grated or descicated cocoanut ; sprinkle cocoanut on the top. 

Mrs. J. B. WILSON. 

Almond Cake. 

1A. cups sugar, £ cup butter, 2 cups flour, 1 cup almonds, 
whites of 4 eggs, J cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, A. tea- 
spoon soda; bake on square tins. Mrs. GEORGE JUDD. 

Lady Cake. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, nearly 1-2 cup butter, whites of 5 eggs ; 
flavor with almond and bake in flat pans. Mrs. FARMER. 

Olive Gingerbread. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup sour cream, 1-2 cup butter, 5 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons soda, 2 teaspoons ginger ; bake about as thick as cup 
cake. Mrs. FARMER. 



12 



Vanilla Cake. 
li cups sugar, 1£ cups flour, £ cup corn starch, £ cup 
sweet milk, A cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 6 
eggs beaten stiff; stir the butter and sugar together until creamy ; 
2 teaspoons vanilla, last thing before baking ; mix thoroughly. 

Mrs. E. M. KENDALL. 

Union or Custard Cake. 
2 cups sugar, \ cup butter, 3 cups flour, \ cup sweet milk, whites 
of 6 eggs, \ teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

For thk Custard — 1 cup sweet milk, \ cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
corn starch, yolks of 4 eggs ; when cold flavor with vanilla. To be 
made in layers, with custard between, like jelly cake. 

Mrs. E. M. KENDALL. 

Cream Cake. 

Break 2 eggs into a teacup and fill with cream, 1 cup sugar, \\ 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, \ teaspoon soda ; for the inside 
4 eggs, 1 quart sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, \ cup corn starch, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. Miss PHRONIA ROOD. 

Fruit Cake. 
1 lb dry flour, 1 lb sweet butter, 1 lb sugar, 3 lbs stoned raisins, 
2 lbs currants, \ lb sweet almonds blanched, 1 lb citron, 12 eggs, 

1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 

2 nutmegs, 1 wineglass of wine, 1 wineglass of brandy, 1 coft'eecup 
molasses with the spices in it ; steep this gently twenty or thirty 
minutes, not boiling hot ; beat the eggs very lightly ; put the fruit 
in last, stirring it gradually ; the fruit should be well flavored ; if 
necessary, arid flour after the fruit is in ; butter a sheet of paper and 
lay it in the pan. Lay iu some slices of citron, then a layer of the 
mixture, then of citron again, &c, till the pan is nearly full. Bake 
four or five hours, according to the thickness of the loaves, in a 
tolerably hot oven, and with steady heat. Let it cool in the oven 
gradually. Ice when cold. A very small piece of soda, about as 
large as a pea, and the same of amount salts of hartshorn, improves 
this cake. Mrs. DON G. LOVELL. 

White Mountain Cake. 
The whites of 4 eggs, \\ cu2>s sugar, \ cup of butter, § cup swee' 
milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups flour, flavor to suit the 
taste. 



13 



The Frosting — Whites of 4 eggs, a little tartaric acid, a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon extract, pulverized sugar to thicken ; to be made in 
layers with frosting between, like jelly cake. 

Mrs. L.E. PATTEN 

Cookies. 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 4 eggs. 2 cups sugar, l 
cup butter. Mrs. L. E. PATTEN. 

Doughnuts. 
2 eggs, l.J cups sugar, if cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der and a pinch of salt, flour to thicken. Mrs. L. E. PATTEN. 

Cream Cake. 
1 cup of cream, 1 cup white sugar, 2 eggs, a little salt, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups flour. Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH. 

Mt. Holyoke, Mass. 
Fruit Cake. 
6 eggs, live cups flour, 2-£ cups brown sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 2 
cups butter, 1 cup wine, 2 teaspoons soda, 1 lb currants, i lb citron 
| lb raisins, nutmeg and cloves to taste, enough to make it look dark 
and spicy. Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH. 

Mt. Holyoke, Mass. 
Pound Cake. 
1 lb butter, 1 lb sugar, 1 lb flour, whites of 10 eggs, wine-glass of 
w ine, 1 teaspoon baking powder ; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 
Gingerbread. 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs 
4 cups flour, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon soda. 

Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 
"Water Cookies— No Eggs, 
1 cup water, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar., 1 tablespoon baking pow- 
der, flour enough to roll out. Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs, 1 cup Sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder ; flavor 
to taste. Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

Grand Rapids Sponge Cake. 
Take a gill cup, (not a gill measure.) 2 cups pulverized sugar, U 
cups flour, 8 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately and very 
light; flavor with lemon juice and a little of the rind grated. Makes 
two loaves very uice. 



14 



Sugar Cookies. 
1 cup butler, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggp, -J- cup sweet milk, \ nutmeg, 
knead soft and roll thin. Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Ginger Cookies. 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon vin- 
egar, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1 tablespoon soda dissolved in boiling 
water. Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Chocolate Cake. 

1 fall cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3-£ cups flour, 1 scant cup milk, 5 
eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Make frosting with whites of 2 eggs, 1| cups pulverized sugar, 2 
teaspoons vanilla, 6 tablespoons grated chocolate ; bake in one square 
shallow tin, and put frosting on top. Miss F. Mc QUEWAN. 

Sponge Cake. 
1 lb eggs, 1 lb sugar, \ lb flour. Beat the yolks and sugar very 
light, also the whites separately, then add the flour stirring it very 
little; add the riud and juice of a lemon. Mrs. 0. II. JOHNSON. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 
1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, butter size of an egg, 1 cup flour, \ cup sweet 
milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Jelly kor Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 large apple grated, 1 lem- 
on grated, beat together and cook till quite thick. 

Mrs. SILAS K. PIERCE. 

Soda Pound Cake. 
IS cups sugar, 1-i cups butter, 4£ cups flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 7 
eggs, 3 teaspoons baking powder : flavor to taste. Will keep fresh 
a long time. Mrs. S K. PIERCE. 

Crullers. 
4 eggs, 8 tablepoons sugar, 4 tablespoons milk, G tablespoons butter, 
1 teaspoon baking powder. Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

Tea Cake. 
1 egg, 1 cup sagar, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups flour, 1 
teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

White Sponge Cake. 
Whites of .j eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der ; flavor with vanilla. Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 



15 



Delicate Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, whites of * eggs, 4 cups 
floor, 1 teaspoon baking powder, flavor to taste. 

Gold Cake. 

Use the sauie receipt with only \ cup butter, and the yolks of 
the eggs. Mrs. L. E. GWtANGER 

Patent Tea Cake. 

Sift 2 teaspoons cream tartar and 2 tablespoons white sugar ir.to 1 
quart of flour, beat 2 eggs, add after melting a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. Mix all with a pint of milk, and the last thing a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in a little milk : bake in muffin rings. 

Mrs. S L. WITHE Y 

G-inger Snaps. 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 cups molasses, 1 cup shortening of any kind, 
but if fresh add a little salt, 2 teaspoons soda, 2 teaspoons ginger. 
3 pints flour to commence with, rub shortening and sugar together 
into the flour, add enough more flour to roll smooth, very thin, and 
bake in a quick oven. The dough can be kept for weeks, and bake 
a few at a time. Mrs. JOHN. W. FRENCH, 

(The best rule in twenty.) Mt. Holyoke, Mass 

Tea Cakes. 

2 teacups flour, 1 teacup milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons cream-tartar, 1 
teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons sugar : bake in rings or gem irons. 

Mrs. OLCOTT. 

St. Louis, Missouri. 

Dough-Nuts. 

2 eggs, t cup sugar, \ cup butter, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, a little salt and spice, nutmeg or cinnamon, flour enough to 
knead soft, and roll. Mrs. ROLLIN CLARK. 

Hunker Hill, 111 

Raised Cake. 

2 cups of raised dough, \\ cups sugar, \ cup butter, : ! eggs, 1 
teacup raisins, stoned and chopped, cinnamon and nutmeg, \ tea- 
spoon soda disolved in little water. 

Mu<. G. G. LOVELL, Spring bake 



16 



Tumbler Cake. 
3 eggs , 1 tumbler raisins, 2 tumblers currants, 1 tumbler sugar, 
1 tumbler molasses, 5 tumblers flour, 1 tumbler butter, 1 tumbler 
sweet milk, 2 teaspoons soda, spice to taste. 

Mns. G. G. LOVELL, Spring Lake. 

Bread Cake. 
2 cups light dough, (hop yeast) 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup raisins, 
}, cup citron, ^ cup butter, 1 nutmeg, \ wine glass brandy, 1 tea- 
spoon soda ; stir all well together, add a little flour; let stand half 
an hour before baking. Miss FLORA CADY. 



Salem Pudding. 
3£ coffee cups flour, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, lib stoned 
raisins, small piece suet chopped fine, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons 
cream tartar, 2 teaspoons ground cloves, \ teaspoon salt ; steam 3 
hours ; eaten with sauce. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Whortleberry or Blackberry Pudding. 
3 cups flour, 1 cup molasses, \ cup milk, 1 qt. fruit, 1 teaspoon 
soda, dissolved in as little water as possible ; boil in a mold \\ 
hours ; sauce. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Sunderland Pudding. 
1 pint milk, 6 heaping tablespoons flour ; 6 eggs — beaten separ- 
ately ; sauce. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Indian Pudding. 
1 pint sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, ^ cup molasses, 2 cups 
Indian meal, 1 cup flour, raisins or currants; steam two hours; 
sauce. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Eve's Pudding. 
6 oz. grated bread, 6 or 7 chopped apples, 6 oz. sugar, 6 oz. cur- 
rants, G eggs, 6 oz. chopped suet, nutmeg to taste ; boil 3 hours . 
sauce. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Troy Pudding. 
1 cup suet, 1 cup milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup molasses, 3 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon soda ; steam two hours. Mrs. E. G. GREGORY. 

Cold Corn Starch Pudding. 

1 quart boiling milk, 3 tablespoons corn starch mixed in cold milk, 
tbe yolks of 5 eggs, with 5 tablespoons fine sugar ; let it cook a few 
moments, then pour into a buttered dish and set in the oven to 
brown ; beat the whites to a froth with 3 tablespoons of powdered 
sugar, and put on top; flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. S. L. WITHEY. 

Rice Pudding— Without Eggs. 

2 quarts new milk, \ teacup rice, 1 teacup raisins, butter size of 
a butternut, 1 teacup sugar; season with nutmeg ; bake two hours. 

Mrs. NOAII STEVENS. 



18 



Christmas Plum Pudding. 

1 tb dry bread or crackers, 1 lb chopped suet, £ tb citron, | lb 
candied orange and lemon peel, 1 lb raisins, 1 lb currants, 8 eggs, 1 
pint milk if needed, 2 nutmegs, 1 tablespoon pounded cinnamon and 
mace mixed, \ fl» sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 gill brandy; mix very 
dry; boil six hours. 

Sauce for above. — 1 lb powdered sugar, i lb butter, 1 large glass 
wine or brandy, whites of 2 eggs well beaten ; set in a warm place 
one hour before eating. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

1 pint molasses, h teaspoon soda stirred in molasses till it foams, 3 
pints berries, flour as stiff as you can stir, a little cloves and cinna- 
mon ; steam four hours. Mrs. S. L. AVITIIEY. 

Steamed Pudding. 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup molasses, J cup butter, 3 
cups flour, 'j teaspoon salt, nutmeg or cinnamon : steam 12 hours. 

Mrs. S. N. GREELEY. 

Sunderland Pudding— Another Kind. 

1 pint cream, 4 spoons (large) flour, eggs, a little salt, butter the 
dishes and fill half full ; may be baked in cups; to be eaten with 
maple syrup, cream and .sugar, or any thin pudding sauce. 

Mas. N. L. AVERY. 

Queen's Pudding. 

1 pint bread crumbs, 1 quart milk, 1 cup sugar, the yolks of 4 
eggs, beaten, the grated rind of a lemon, butter the size of an egg ; 
bake until done but not watery ; whip the whites of the eggs stiff 
and beat in a cup of sugar in which has been stirred the juice of the 
lemon ; spread over the pudding jelly or sweetmeats, and pour over 
it the whites of the eggs: replace in the oven and bake lightly; eat 
cold with cream. Mrs. N. L. AVERY. 

Nantucket Pudding. 

1 quart berries, or any small fruit, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 table- 
spoons sugar; simmer together and turn into moulds; cover with 
frosting as for cake, or with whipped eggs and sugar, browning 
lightly in the oven ; serve with cream. Mbs. Win, M. FERRY, 

Grand Haven 



19 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 
.'! nips of meal, 2 cups flour, 1 pint sour milk, ^ teacup molasses, 
% eggs, teaspoon ^nlt, tablespoon butter, teaspoon soda ; boil 2 hours. 

Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

Cream Pudding. 
1 pint cream, yolks of G eggs, 6 tablespoons (lour, }, pint milk, 1 
tablespoon sugar, little soda and salt : rub the cream with eggs and 
Hour. Mrs. C. B. ALLYN. 

Plum Pudding— Without Eggs. 

lake 2 pounds of bread crumbs, sift through a calender, 3 table- 
spoons flour, 1 lb brown sugar; mix thoroughly ; then add 1 lb suet 
chopped very flue, lh lb raisins stoned and chopped, 1 fb currants, \ 
lb citron cut in small pieces, ^ oz. ground allspice. Having mixed 
all well together, moisten with a little ale or milk, press the mixture 
into the bottom of a basin well buttered, fill to a trifle above the 
brim, spread some flour on the top, and tie over a wet cloth. Place 
the pudding in boiling water and boil five hours. 

Great care is required in all puddings of this kind, not to make 
them too wet, or they will be heavy. Mas. BREWER. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 
2 quarts milk, 12 tablespoons Indian meal, 2 eggs ; take part of 
the milk and scald the meal in it, then add the cold milk, then eggs ; 
then sweeten with molasses and sugar to your taste ; butter the size 
of an egg, cut in bits a little nutmeg: eat with hard sauce or thick 
cream sweetmeat. New England. 

Plum Pudding. 

1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup suet, 1 cup sour milk, smalj 
teaspoon soda, f cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
k nutmeg, flour enough to make thick as cake; steam 2 hours; sauce 
of bntter and sugar. Mrs. PIERSON, Ionia. 

Suet Pudding. 
1 cup of suet chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 
cups flour, 1 egg, £ cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 
teaspoons cream tartar ; spice to taste ; steam three hours ; put raisins 
in bottom of dish ; serve with liquid sauce. 

Mas JOHN THOMPSON. 
Spring Lake. 



20 



Orange Pudding. 
4 oranges, slice in small pieces, 1 cup sugar into 1 quart of nearly 
boiling milk, stir 2 tablespoons corn starch and the yolks of 3 eggs ; 
when cool, mix with oranges ; make frosting of the whites for the 
top. Miss ALICE J. FRALICK. 

Queen's Cranberry Pudding. 

1 cup of milk, 1 egg, piece of butter size of an egg, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 small teaspoons cream tartar, flour enough to make a stiff 
batter, 1 cup cranberries; steam one hour; serve with liquid sauce. 

PHRONIA ROOD. 

Ta.pioca Pudding. 

3 tablespoons tapioca, 1 cup sugar, 1 quart milk, 3 eggs; boil J of 
the milk, wash the tapioca, and stir into milk ; boil a few minutes, 
then add the rest of the milk, the yolks of eggs, and sugar; bake; 
when cold cover with jelly, then add the whites of eggs beaten with 
little sugar ; set in oven and brown. Mrs. L. D. PUTNAM. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

1 qt. sweet milk, 3 oz. grated chocolate; scald the milk and choco- 
late together; when cool, add the yolks of 5 eggs, and 1 cup sugar; 
bake about 25 minutes; beat the whites for the top, and brown in 
the oven. Mrs. C. B. ALLYN. 

Almond Pudding. 

2 quarts milk, boil and stir in 2 heaping spoons of flour ; let it boil 
and stir to keep from burning ; cool it and stir in 6 beaten eggs. 
Take the skins of 2 lb almonds, pound them fine and stir in salt, 
sweeten and flavor to taste. When put in the oyen add lumps of 
butter on the surface. Mrs- HOLLISTER. 

Porter House Pudding. 

1 teacup rice, 3 pints milk ; set the pan into water and let it sim- 
mer until soft, stirring all the time ; sweeten and flavor with vanilla, 
and put in the oven to bake. Mrs. J. B. WILSON. 

Apple Pudding. 

Layer of sliced apple, seasoned with sugar, butter, &c, then a 
layer of bread crumbs, 1 cup water, apples last ; bake and eat with 
sauce, or sugar and cream. Mrs. J. S. CROSBY. 



21 



German Puffs. 

1 pint milk, whiles of S eggs, yolks of G, 5 tablespoons flour, 1 

tablespoon melted butter, a little salt ; bake in cups half full, for 20 

minutes ; serve with sauce as follows : Whites of 5 eggs, beaten to 

a froth, with a coffcecup of sugar, and the juice of 2 large oranges. 

Mns. H. J. HOLLISTER. 

Frost Pudding. 
^ teacup rice, 1 quart milk, stand it in water and cook till soli ; 3 
tablespoons sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon, stirred 
with the rice and milk ; the whites beaten to a stiff froth, with 4 
tablespoons powdered sugar, and spread over the top ; stand in the 
oven to brown. Mrs. J. B. WILSON. 

Lemon Pudding. 
1 cup sugar, 1| cup milk, 1 grated lemon, yolks of 2 eggs, white of 
1 egg ; bake in pie paste. 
Frosting. — White of 1 egg, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Mrs. FARMER. 

Snow Pudding. 
To ^ box of Cox's gelatine put ^ pint cold water, after this is 
dissolved add the juice of 2 lemons and \ lb. sugar, and 1| pints 
boiling water ; let this stand until cold ; beat the whites of 4 eggs to 
a stiff froth, adding one tablespoon sugar, spread this over the jelly. 
Satjck. — Scald 1 pint milk, beat the yolks of the 4 eggs sweeten, 
and add grated rind of the 2 lemons ; stir into the boiling milk. 

Mrs. FARMER. 

Plum Pudding. 

1 cup suet, chopped line, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 cup raisins, 
3£ cups flour, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon each of cloves and cinnamon, nut- 
meg, a little salt, 1 teaspoon soda ; boil three hours in a pudding 
mould set into a kettle of water; eat with sauce. Mas. PECK. 



Lemon Pie. 
1 coll'eecup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon melted butter 
1 heaping tablespoon flour, juice and little rind 1 lemon. 

Miss MARY McOONNELL. 

Lemon Pie. 
1 lemon, 1 cup sugar pulverized, i cup water, 1 tablespoon flour ; 
chop the lemon after paritig and pressing out the juice; 3 eggs ; 
beat the yolks and sugar well together, then add the chopped lemon, 
juice, water and flour; do not use the rind. Reserve the whites of 
the eggs and after the pie is baked spread them over the top, beaten 
lightly, and return to the oven until it is a light brown. 

Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 

A Trick Worth Knowing. 
Pie crust can be kept a week, and the last be better thau the 
first if put in a tight covered dish, and set in the ice chest in sum- 
mer, and in a cool place in winter, and thus you can make a fresh 
pie every day with little trouble. Mrs. MATHEWS. 

Mince Meat. 
To 4 lbs. of boiled fresh beef chopped very line, add 4^ lbs. chopped 
apples, 4 lbs. brown sugar, 2 lbs. butter, spice to your taste; moisten 
with cider or currant jelly reduced with water. If cider is used, and 
is quite tart, add a cup of molasses and scald. 

Mrs. L. S. LOVELL, Ionia. 

Frosted Lemon Pie. 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup cold water, grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, 
yolks of 4 eggs and white of 1, 1 tablespoon flour, flavor ; bake and 
then add whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth, with 1 cup sugar, 
spread on top. Mrs. M. L. SWEET. 



23 



Cocoanut Pie. 
^ cup desiccated cocoannt soaked in 1 cup of milk, 2 eggs, 1 small 
cup sugar, butter size of an egg. Mrs. N. D. CARPENTER. 

Another Cream Pie. 
Whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a Btiff froth, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 
cup cream with milk to fill the plate ; bake in one crust. 

Mrs. C. P. AI.I.YN. 

Summer Mince Pie. 
2 eggs, 3 rolled crackers, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups molasses, (a little 

less,) I cup butter, £ vinegar, 1 cup hot water, 1 teaspoon each, 
spices, raisins, &c. Mrs, f,. I). PUTNAM. 



Spiced Beef. 
Take the lank of beef and rub in a great deal of salt and pepper; 
roll it up as tightly as possible, tie with a stout cord firmly ; boil as 
you would corned beef; when cold slice for tea. 

Mrs. S. L. WITHEY. 

Potted Pigeons. 
Clean and stuff with onion dressing, thyme, &c. — do not sew up — 
take 5 or more slices of corned pork, let it fry awhile in a pot so 
that the fat comes out and it begins to brown a little ; then lay the 
pigeons all around in the fat, leaving the pork still in ; add hot 
water enough to partially cover them ; cover tightly and boil an 
hour or so until tender ; then turn off some of the liquid, and keep 
turning them so they will brown nicely ; then heat and add the 
liquor poured off; add extra thyme, pepper, and keep turning until 
the pigeons and gravy are nicely browned, and served with the 
gravy poured over them. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Baked Fresh Fish. 
Clean the fish, stuff it or not as preferred, cut very thin slices of 
pork and lay on the outside ; skewer on the pork and bake. 

Mks. HARVEY. 

Veal Loaf. 
3 lbs. veal chopped very fine, butter size of an egg, 3 eggs, Stable- 
spoons cream or milk, mix the eggs and cream together ; mix with 
the veal 4 pounded crackers, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 1 large table- 
spoon salt, 1 large tablespoon sage ; mix well together and form 
into a loaf, bake 2J, hours, baste with butter and water while baking. 

Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 



25 



A Swiss "White Soup. 

A sufficient quantity of broth for 6 people, boil it ; beat up 3 eggs 
well, 2 spoonsful of flour, 1 cup milk ; pour these gradually through 
a seive into the boiling soup, salt and pepper. 

Mrs. J. B. WILSON. 

Pressed Turkey or Chicken. 

Boil the fowls in as little water as possible (salting a little) till 
very tender, take out the bones and take off the skin, chop and 
season with pepper and salt and piece of butter ; tie in a strong 
cloth and press with heavy weights. Mrs. S. L. WITHEY. 

Chicken Salad. 
A pair of chickens, £ lb. melted butter, 1 pint rich sweet cream, 
yolks of 10 or 12 eggs boiled hard, 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 3 
tablespoons English mustard, 1 tablespoon salt, celery according to 
taste, 1 pint vinegar or -£- pint according to strength ; mix the eggs, 
mustard, pepper and salt all together, then add the butter, and 
lastly the cream. Mrs. C. ALFRED SMITH. 

Reading, Penn. 

Another kind of Chicken Salad. 

Take a chicken weighing about 3 lbs., boil tender; when cold, re- 
move the bones, chop line using both dark and light meat, boil 4 
eggs hard, rub the yolks line with 2 teaspoons mustard and 1 teacup 
thick cream, salt and pepper to taste, chop the whites of the eggs, 
and as much celery as you have chicken ; the last thing add 1 teacup 
of vinegar. Mrs. C. C. ROOD. 

Fish Salad. 

Take a fresh white fish or trout, boil and chop it fine, put with 
the same quantity of chopped cabbage, celery or lettuce, season the 
same as chicken salad. Mrs. EGGLESTON. 

Mrs. HOVEY. 

Chicken Cheese. 

2 chickens boiled tender; chop them, but not too fine ; season with 
salt and pepper, boil 3 or 4 eggs and slice them ; line moulds or 
dishes with these ; pour in the chicken and add the liquor they 
were boiled in. When cold slice for lunch or tea. 

Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH. 
Mt. Holyoke, Mass. 



26 



Beef Omelette. 

4 lbs. raw beef chopped fine, 4 rolled crackers, 4 eggs, piece butter 
size of an egg, season with pepper, salt and sage ; make 2 loaves of 
this, roll them in crackers, and bake ; slice when cold ; very nice. 

Miss FANNY McQUEWAN. 

Baked Beans. 

Take 2 quarts white beans, pick them over the night before, put 
to soak in cold water ; in the morning put them in fresh water and 
let them scald, then turn off the water and put on more, hot ; put to 
cook with them a piece of salt pork, gashed, as much as would 
make 5 or 6 slices ; boil slowly till soft (not mashed) then add a great 
spoonful of molasses, | teaspoon soda, stir in well, put in a deep 
pan, bake 1| hours. If you do not like to use pork, salt beans when 
boiling, and add a lump of butter when preparing them for the 
oven. New England. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shave dried beef very thin, put it in frying pan, add milk or 
water, when hot stir in a tablespoon of flour wet with cold water 
aud 3 eggs, stir until thick, and dish immediately. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Plain Omelette. 

Beat 6 eggs slightly with chopped boiled ham ; put a piece of 
butter size of a butternut into a frying pan; when melted pour in 
the egg ; when half done, double turn-over fashion, cook over a 
moderate fire. To be eaten immediately. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Potatoes Fried. 

Pare and slice the potatoes thin, cut them if you like in small 
fillets, about a quarter of an inch square and as long as the potato 
will admit ; keep them in cold water till wanted, then drop them 
into boiling lard ; when nearly done take them out with a skimmer 
and drain them, boil up the lard again, drop the potatoes back and 
fry till done ; this operation causes the fillets to swell up and puff 
out ; sprinkle with salt, and serve very hot. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 



27 

Mock Cauliflower. 

Take white crisp cabbage, boil in salted water until tender, drain 
off water and add a little milk, boil up again and season with butter, 
salt and a little pepper. Mrss PHRONIA ROOD. 

Beef Hash. (Prof. Blot.) 

Chop cold roast beef, or pieces of beef steak ; fry | an onion in 
piece of butter; when the onion is brown, add the chopped beef; 
season with a little salt, pepper and nutmeg ; moisten with the beef 
gravy if you have any, if not, with sufficient water and little butter ; 
cook long enough to be hot, but no longer, as much cooking tough- 
ens the meat. An excellent breakfast dish. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

French Oyster Pie. 

Having buttered the inside of a deep pie plate, line it with puff 
paste or common pie paste, and prepare another sheet of paste for 
the lid ; put a clean towel into the dish (folded so as to support the 
lid) set it into the oven and bake the paste well ; when done remove 
the lid and take out the folded towel ; wdiile the paste is baking 
prepare the oysters ; haviug picked off carefully any bits of shell that 
may be found about them, drain off the liquor into a pan, put the 
oysters into a stew pan with barely enough of the liquor to keep 
them from burning ; season them with pepper, salt and butter ; add 
a little sweet cream or milk, and 1 or 2 crackers rolled fine ; let the 
oysters simmer, but not boil, as that will shrivel them ; when paste 
is done, having removed the upper crust, fill dish with oysters and 
gravy, replace the cover and serve hot. 

Mrs. JAMES MILLER. 

Fried Oysters. 

Put a piece of butter in a frying pan with pepper and salt to 
season ; heat hot, then put in oysters, thoroughly drained, and fry 
quickly. 

Another "Way. 

Dip oysters in a batter prepared as tor griddle cakes, with, per- 
haps, 1 or 2 more eggs ; then fry in butter and lard, half of each ; 
the true philosophy of frying is to have the fat at a boiling heat 
before any thing is put into it : if only warm it penetrates, and 
the food is greasy. 



28 



Fried Oysters. 

Drain the liquor from 1 can of oysters, beat 2 eggs, dip oysters in 
the egg, then in rolled cracker, and fry brown in butter and lard, 
half of each. F. L. EOSTER. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

To 1 can oysters, 1 loaf bakers bread, (stale,) remove the crust 
and use only the inside, crumbled fine ; butter a deep tin or earthern 
dish, and fill with alternate layers of bread and oysters ; the first 
and last layers should be bread ; season each layer of oysters with 
pepper, salt and butter ; moisten with the liquor from the oysters ; 
bake \ hour, and serve immediately. F. L. FOSTER. 

Directions for making Chowder. 

Cut the fish in pieces 2 inches square ; fry 6 slices of salt pork in 
an iron pot till crisped ; take out the pork leaving the fat ; put into 
the pot a layer of fish, several bits of the fried pork, and a layer of 
crackers that have been soaked tender in cold water ; season with 
salt, black and red pepper, (onions if liked) and other spices ; repeat 
the process till you have used all the fish required for the chowder; 
then turn sufficient cold water to cover the whole, and stew from 
25 to 30 minutes ; put the fish in the dish in which you are to serve 
it, and keep warm. Thicken the gravy with pounded cracker; 
add | pint white wine or a large spoonful of catsup ; garnish with 
slices of lemon, after adding the juice of 1 or 2. Cod and Haddock 
make the best chowder. ^Rye Beach.) 

Mks. Wrn. M. FERRY, 

Grand Haven. 

To Cook Clams. 

Roast in a pan over a hot fire, or in a hot oven, or at a " Clam 
Bake" on hot stones ; when they open empty the juice into a sauce 
pan, add the clams with butter, pepper and very little salt. (Rye 
Beach.) Mrs. Wm. M. FERRY. 

To Boil Clams. 

Put them in a pot with very little water, and so as to save their 
juices, proceed as in preparing roast clams, and lay buttered toast 
in the dish when you take them up. Clams fried in egg batter are 
a nice breakfast dish. (Rye Beach.) Mrs. Wm. M. FERRY. 



29 



Saratoga Fried Potatoes 

Cut nice potatoes into very thin slices, put them into coM wate r 
with a small bit of alum added to make them crisp ; let them stand 
a few hours, or over night ;;rinse in cold water, and dry them with 
a crash towel ; fry them a light brown in boiling fat; add a little 
salt. (Saratoga specialty.) Mrs. Win. M. FERRY. 

Boiled "White Fish. 

Taken from Mrs. A. W. Ferry's Cook Book, Mackinac, 1824. 

The most delicate mode of cooking white fish : 

Prepare the fish as for broiling, laying it open ; put it into a drip- 
ping pan with the back down ; nearly cover with water ; to one fish 
2 tablespoon sful of salt ; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) | hour. 
Dress with the gravy, a little butter and pepper, and garnish with 
hard boiled eggs. Mrs. Wm. M. FERRY, 

Grand Haven. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Cut the fish into square pieces, cover with cold water, set on the 
back part of the stove ; when hot pour off water and cover again 
with cold water ; let it stand about 4 hours and simmer ; fry a few 
slices of pork, put the fish on a platter, aud pour the pork fat over 
it ; then cover with a drawn butter gravy,_and serve. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Mary's Fish Balls. 

2 lbs. codfish, cov,er with cold water and set on stove where it will 
keep hot, but'will not boil, for 2 hours ; change the water once ; 
then remove the] skin and bones, and boil with 12 good sized 
potatoes ; when potatoes are done, pour off the water, and wash all 
together, then make into balls ; sprinkle a little flour over them, and 
fry brown in a spider with piece butter as large as an egg ; add more 
if necessary. 

Meat Balls, 

Mince any kind of cold meat, game, fish or poultry; season it well 
mix with some gravy thickened almost to a paste with yolks of 
eo-gs ; make into balls, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry them 
brown ; i more lean than fat, or they will not be firm. 

Mrs. WORDEN. 



30 



Croquets. 
Take any kind of fresh meat or fowl, chop very fine, add an 
equal quantity of smoothly mashed potatoes, mix, and season with 
butter, salt, black pepper, a little prepared mustard, and a little 
cayenne pepper ; make into cakes, dip in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry a light brown ; a nice relish for tea. 

Mrs. GREEN, Louisville, Ky. 

Gravy for Fish Balls. 
Piece butter the size of an egg, 1 tablespoon flour, -k pint boiling 
water ; boil a few minutes and add 3 hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

College Avenue. 



Brown Bread. 
1 cup rye flour, 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 2 cups 
Indian meal, \ cup molasses, \\ pints milk, 1 teaspoon soda, salt ; 
boil in a tin boiler 3 hours. Mrs. FARMER. 

Portland Brown Bread. 

1 quart sweet milk, 1 pint bread crumbs, f cup molasses, 1 heaping 
teaspoon soda, 1 pint rye flour, 1 pint Indian meal; steam 5 hours 
and bake half an hour ; makes 2 loaves. Mrs. READ. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

2 cups Indian meal, 1 cup rye meal, (mixed thoroughly,) § cup 
molasses, 1 cake " Twin Brothers " yeast or § cup homebrewed yeast, 
1 teaspoon soda, mix with warm water, very stiff, a little salt, butter 
thoroughly a pail, (a 3 quart tin pail.) and put in the bread ; fasten 
the pail in a pot of boiling water, and let the bread steam in this 
way 5 hours or longer. 

Corn Muffins. 

1 cup flour, 1 cup corn meal, 2 tablespoons sugar, water to make a 
thick batter ; mix at night ; in the morning add 2 tablespoons melted 
butter, and 1 teaspoon soda ; bake in cake rounds. 

Johnny Cake. 

2 cups Indian meal, \ cup flour, 2 cups sour cream or milk, 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, 1 small teaspoon soda, 1 egg, a little sugar or 
molasses. Mrs. N. L. AVERY. 

Sally Lunn 

7 cups sifted flour, \ cup butter warmed in a pint of milk, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teacup yeast, 3 eggs ; mix and put into shallow pans ; 
let rise 4 or 5 hours, then bake. Mrs. READ. 



32 



Biscuits. 
3 pints flour, butter the size of an egg, 3 heaping teaspoons baking 
powder ; make a soft dough with sweet milk. 

Mrs. HALDANE. 

Soda Rusk. 
1 cup sugar, 2 cups sweet milk, 6 cups flour, 2 eggs, butter size of 
2 eggs, 4 teaspoons cream tartar, 2 teaspoons soda dissolved in hot 
water and added last. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Muffins. 

1 quart sour milk, 3 eggs, 3 teaspoons soda, flour for a stiff batter. 

Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Another kind of Muffin. 

1 pint milk, 1 egg, 1 gill yeast, butter size of an egg, salt, flour to 
make a thin batter. Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 

Another kind of Muffin. 

3 cups flour, 1| cups water or milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon 
white sugar, 3 teaspoons cream tartar, 1£ teaspoons soda. 

Mrs. HALDANE. 

Bunns. 

3 cups milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup yeast, 2 eggs ; let it rise over night; 
add in the morning, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^ nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
soda; make as thick as biscuit, let it rise again very light, then roll 
the dough and cut out the size of a teacup, and lay in pans by the 
fire while the oven is heating. Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 quarts flour, 1 teaspoon butter rubbed into the flour, make a 
hole in the flour and in it pour 1 pint milk, boiled and cooled, ^ tea- 
cup yeast, \ teacup sugar, let them work into the flour, mixed at 
night; in the morning knead and let rise slowly until noon, then 
knead and make into rolls, and let stand till time to bake for 
supper. Mrs. HENRY S SMITH. 

Potato or Squash Griddle Cakes. 

1 pint bowl strained potato or squash, 2 cups flour, 3 cups sweet 
milk, salt, and small teaspoon soda; sweeten if you like. 

Miss MARY McCONNELL. 



33 



Green Corn Cakes. 

1 pint grated sweet corn, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 teacup flour, 1 
tablespoon melted butter, 1 egg, a little salt and pepper; fry with 
lard or butter. Miss MARY McCONNELL. 

Johnny Cake. 

3 cups of Indian meal, 1 cup of flour, 1 pint of sour milk, 3 eggs, 
2 teacup of molasses, teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, teaspoon 
soda; bake 1 hour. Mrs. L. E. GRANGER. 

Brown Bread. 

1 pint corn meal, pour over enough boiling water to thoroughly 
scald it; when cool, add 1 pint light white bread sponge, mix well 
together, add 1 cup molasses, and graham flour enough to mould; 
this will make 2 loaves ; when light bake in a moderate oven 1^ 
hours. Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 

Wheat Bread. 

1 quart milk or water, 2 cups potato yeast, pinch of salt, sift 
sufflcient flour in a pan, put in yeast, salt, and wet up at once into 
as soft a dough as can be kneaded without sticking ; knead thor- 
oughly, when light mould and put into bread pans, let it stand from 
I to £ of an hour; bake one hour. Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Corn Bread. 

1 pint milk, 1 pint meal, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon butt< r, 
1 teaspoon soda. 2 teaspoons cream tartar. Mrs. PIERSON, Ionia. 

Graham Bread. 

1 pint sweet milk or water, 1 quart graham flour, \ pint wheat 
flour, I enp molasses, I cup yeast, 1 teaspoon soda, a little salt. 

Mrs. FRALIOK. 

Squash Muffins. 

1 pint sifted squash, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 tablespoons 
milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons yea^t ; mix up stiff at night, 
in the morning add a very little soda, not more than ' teuspoon, 
and flour enough to mould, not too stiff; bake in moulds. 

Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH, 
Mi. Elolyoke, Northampton, M 



Graham Muffins. 
1 pint sour milk, (sweet milk with 2 teaspoons of cream tartar 
will answer,) H pint of graham flour, 2 large spoonsful molasses, 1 
egg, a little salt, 1 teaspoon soda ; bake in cups, or in moulds in a 
quick oven. Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH. 

French Rolls. 
1 pint warm water, \ cup lard, 2 tablespoons sugar, | cup yeast ; 
put lard and sugar into the water, and melt it up with your hand, 
then stir in a little flour, then add the yeast, after which, stir in as 
much flour as you can conveniently with your hand ; let it rise over 
night, in the morning add nearly a tablespoon of salt, then mould \ 
hour, the longer the better; let it raise until light again, then take 
a little piece and roll out, and put a little butter on it, and double it 
a little more than half over ; let them rise once more until light, then 
bake. For bread, simply in a loaf; it is delicious. 

Mns. PICKERING, 

Kalamazoo. 

Rice Croquets. 
Take 1 quart cold boiled rice, break in 2 eggs, make into balls 
with flour on your hand, drop into very hot lard, fry brown ; serve 
hot. Jilts. MATHEWS. 

Muffins or Variety Puffs. 
L quart of flour, 1 quart of milk, S eggs, £ teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon incited butter; heat gem irons hot before putting in the 
batter. Miss FANNY McQUEWAN. 

Sally Lunn. 
Rub a piece of butter as large as an egg into a quart of Hour, add 
1 tumbler of milk, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder; bake in square tins, and eat warm with butter. 

.Miss FANNY McQUEWAK. 

Potato Yeast. 

LO potatoes mashed fine ; pour on 1 quart 1. oiling water: when 
lukewarm stir in 1 coffcecup of sugar (coffee) and 1 teacup of flour: 
add nearly 1 quart of boiling water : when cool enough, stir in 1 
teacup of baker's yeast, or 1 pint of the potato yeast; let. it stand 
several hours in a covered pail in a warm room, then put it in jugs 
filling Only half lull, and cork very tight; -,l teacupsful of this yeast 
will raise.'] loaves of bread. Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 



35 



Indian Breakfast Cake. 

2 cups sour milk, t tablespoons cream, little salt, 2 tablespoons 
brown sugar, 2 cups ol Indian meal, 1 cup of Hour, teaspoon soda. 

Mrs. JOHN W. FRENCH. 

Muffins. 

1 pint iniik beaten with 1 teaspoon sugar, a little salt, butter the 
size of an pljit, ', cup yeast, stir in Hour to make stiff batter*, a little 
soda iu with yeast, and raise three hours. Mrs. GROUT. 

Congress Hall Muffins. 

1 quart milk, 1J lbs. Hour; mix well ; add j teaspoon Bne Bait, 
whites and yolks of 3 eggs, beaten separately, and well mix all 
together lightly, bake in a hot oven half an hour. 

Mrs. henry m. hinsdill. 

Brownies. 

2 quarts sour milk, 2 teaspoons soda dissolved in the milk, 3 table- 
spoons molasses, i teaspoon salt, thicken with graham Hour quite 
stiff: drop on a dripping pan and bake. Mrs. READ. 

Corn Griddle Cakes. 

T.urn 1 pint of boiling water or milk 071 a pint of Indian meal, add 
1 pint cold milk or water, 3 tablespoons Hour, •'! eggs well beaten, 
and 1 teaspoon salt ; bake on a griddle. Mrs. FULLER. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 

H pints solid cold boiled rice, soaked over night in I pintof water 
or milk, 1 quart milk added in the morning, 1 quart flour, 2 eggs 
well beaten, £ teaspoon saleratns dissolved in a little hot water, 1 
teaspoon salt; hake on a griddle. Mrs. FELLER. 

Gems. 
2 cup3 sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons sugar, a handful of 
Indian meal, one of flour, 1 egg, 1 spoonful melted butter, thicken 
with graham Hour to a stiff batter; bake in gem irons on muffin 
rings. Mrs. HOVE V. 

Graham Gems. 
1 pint sweet milk, 1 egg, l cup white sugar, a little salt ; make a 
thin batter and pour it into the cups after they are heated; bake 
quickly. Mrs. W. A. HOWARD. 



36 



Waffles. 

1 pint sweet milk, (! eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 
Hour to make a thick batter. Miss. FANNTE HOLCOMB. 

Drop Fried Cakes. 

2 eggs, | cup sugar, beaten together, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar, \ teaspoon soda, a little nutmeg; Hour enough to make 
it the stiffness of cup cake. Mrs. FULLER. 

Baked Omelette. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, and add § cup of hot milk, a bit of but- 
ter, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper,. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and add them ; bake in a buttered dish a few minutes, in a 
hot oven. Mns. FULLER. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
1 quart buckwheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons home- 
brewed yeast or ^ cake " Twin Brothers " yeast, stir in warm water, 
beat it well; in the morning add 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, 2 tablespoons molasses. 

Rye Drop Cakes. 

1 egg, 2 cups rye, 2 cups flour, | cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar, \ teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon melted butter, 1 \ 
cups milk ; bake in " iron clads" £ hour. 

Omelette. 

1 cup warm milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 
pepper and salt, 8 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, mix all, 
whites last ; fry in a buttered spider. Mas. GREELEY. 

Puff Overs. 

2 cups sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon salt; bake in cups in a quick oven, fifteen minutes; serve hot 
with sauce. Miss FANNIE HOLCOLM. 

Potato Yeast. 
Boil '5 large potatoes in 3 pints water, tie a small handful of hops 
in a bag and boil with potatoes, when thoroughly cooked drain the 
water on a lar:;e spoon of flour, then math the potatoes and add to 
the water with 1 taMespoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of ginger and \ tea- 
cup of brown sugar; when somewhat cooled add 1 teacup of yeast. 
Keep the whole a little warm until it is light and spongy ; cover 
light and put in a cool place. One cup full of this yeast will make 
4 large loaves of bread. Mas. M. L. SWEET. 



Sweet Dishes or Varieties. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

1 lb bakers chocolate, (grated) 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup milk or cream, butter the size of a butternut ; warm the sugar 
in the oven, then boil all together twenty-rive minutes, stirring 
constantly; pour into buttered tins and when nearly cold check oil 
with a knife. Mrs. SWEET. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, butter size of 
a nut, £ teaspoon soda; boil briskly 20 minutes stirring all the time, 
when cool enough pull quickly. Mrs. J. R. WILSON. 

Chocolate Custard. 
Take 1 qt. milk and when nearly boiling stir in 2ozs. grated choc- 
olate, let it warm on the lire for a few moments and then remove 
and cool ; beat the yolks of 6 eggs and 2 whites with 8 tablespoons 
sugar, then pour the milk over them, flavor and bake as any custard. 
Make a meringue of the remaining whites. 

Mrss McCONNELL. 

Russian Cream. 
Soak i box of Cox's gelatine in 1| pints cold water for an hour, 
beat the yolks of 4 eggs with one cup of sugar; put 1 qt. of milk 
on to heat, when warm stir the eggs, sugar and gelatine in until the 
latter is dissolved, let it come to a boil as for soft custard ; beat the 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the custard is just 
warm stir them in, flavor to the taste and put into moulds. 

Mrs. J. P.. WILSON. 

Bavarian Cream. 
1 pt. cream sweetened very sweet, 3 tablespoons wine, 1 tablespoon 
vanilla ; after beating the cream up lightly, stir in ;■, of a box of 
" Cox's Sparkling Gelatine " dissolved in ^ teacup ot warm water ; 
while straining in the gelatine beat the cream thoroughly, acid the 
whites of 6 eggs well beaten ; beat them all together, pour iuto a 
mould and let it stand an hour in a cool place ; serve with or without 
jelly. Mks. W. D. FOSTER. 



38 



Cream Nectar. 

1 lli coffee sugar, 1 qt. water, 1 oz. tartaric acid, boil o minutes in 
porcelain kettle; wliile boiling add 1 tablespoon of cornstarch mixed 

in a little cold water, when cool add juice of 1 lemon, whites of 2 
eggs, flavor to taste; 2 tablespoons of liquid to. a goblet of ice water, 
then add | spoon of soda. The liquid will keep a month if bottled 
and kept in a cool place. Mrs. M. L. SWEET. 

Strawberry Whips. 

Whip sweetened rich cream as stiff as possible ; fill the glasses 
half full of the juice of strawberries sweetened and strained, and pile 
the cream on top, then lay a strawberry on each glass. 

Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 

Lemon Beer. 

9 lbs. sugar, 3 nutmegs, G ozs cream tartar, 6 lemons, 3 pts. yeast, 
10 gallons water; put 4 gals, water to the sugar and boil it, put in 
3 eggs well beaten to cleanse it before it boils, then skim it carefully, 
turn the remaining part of the water into a firkin, slice in the lemons, 
grate in the nutmegs, put in the cream tartar, the boiling sugar and 
then the yeast, stir, let stand 12 hours and bottle up. 

Mrs. e. e. .iron. 

Apple Island. 

Stew apples enough to make a quart, strain through a seive, and 
sweeten with fine white sugar, flavor with lemon or rose, beat the 
whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth and stir it slowly into the apples, 
but do not do this until just before serving, use but little water ; 
serve a boiled custard made of the yolks of the eggs and H pints 
milk to eat with it. Mrs. PECK. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 1. 

1 pt. milk, 1 pt. cream; 1 gill white wine, i ov.. gelatine, \ eggs . 
dissolve the gelatine in the milk and let them boil, then take from 
the stove, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, and the wine to the 
(thick) cream and beat to a froth, beat the whites to a stiff froth and 
mix with the boiled custard, sugar to the taste, and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla; lastly, stir in the whipped cream lightly, line a 
dish with sponge cake making the pieces adhere with whitesof eggs, 
and pour in the above. Mas. Tl. J. HOLLISTER. 



39 



Wme Jelly. 

l box gelatine, (siz'a marked 1-s) pour over it I pt cold water, lot 

staud 10 minutes, add 2 coffeecups sugar and juice and rind of 1 
lemon, add 1J pints boiling water, 1 coileecup wine; stir until 
dissolved then strain, put into the mold immediately; this will sure- 
ly jelly in a few hours. Add the boiling water last of all but the 
wine. Mas. E. E. J#DD. 

White Custard. 

1 pint Cream, 1 pt. new milk, sweeten to taste, beat the whiles of 
1 eggs and mix all together, put it over the fire and stir all the time 
till it thickens, take oil" and stir a few minutes afterward, flavor and 
put in cups; beat up the whites of eggs and put on top as for float- 
ing island. Mas. S. L. WITHEY. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 2. 
1 quart sweet milk, boil, and stir in while boiling 4 eggs. 2 table- 
spoons cornstarch, and 1 teacup sugar beaten together; when cold, 
add -J pint thick cream, whipped; flavor with vanilla. Line a dish 
or mould with sponge cake and pour in the above 

Mrs. SLIGH. 

Cream Candy. 

lbs. loaf sugar, !_, pint water ; set over slow lire J. hour, 1 teaspoon 
gum arabic dissolved in 1 tablespoon vinegar ; boil, and pull like 
molasses candy. Miss ALICE J. PRALICK. 

Charlotte Ruyse, No, 3. 

1 quart thin cream, sweeten to taste, set on ice or in a cool place 
ready to whip ; dissolve £ box gelatine in a little hot witter, have 
ready a sponge cake about \ an inch thick, baked in a large dripping 
pan ; tit a piece of letter paper nicely in the bottom of a mould, cut 
with a sharp knife a piece of cake plat the size of the top of the 
mould, measure the depth of mould, and cut cake in -trip- this 
width ; once in about an inch, gash the top of the cake, but do uol 
cul through. Put this round the side of the mould, then whip the 
(•ream, taking off the froth into another dish until all is whipped. 
Add gelatine and flavor with vai.iila. beating well, till moulds; put 
on the piece of cake cut for the top and scl on ice, or i>i the winter 
in a cool place to harden. This will till (wo good sized moulds. 

Mks. MATHEWS. 



40 



Sea Foam. 

\ box gelatine, cover with water and let stand ten minutes; add 
1 pint boiling water, 2 cups sugar, juice and part of grated rind of 1 
lemon ; when cool, add the whites of 3 eggs well beaten ; beat the 
whole 1 hour in a cool place ; to be served with canned fruit. 

Miss ALICE J. FRALICK. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 cups brown sugar, ^ lb bakers choco- 
late, butter size of an egg stirred with 1 tablespoon flour ; boil about 
| of an hour. ANNA GRANGER. 

Lemon Jelly. 

To a package of gelatine, add a pint of cold water, the juice of 4 
lemons and the rind of 1 ; let it stand 1 hour, then add 3 pints of 
boiling water and 2 lbs. crushed sugar ; strain, run into moulds and 
stand in cool place. Mrs. W. I). FOSTER. 

Coffee or Chocolate Blancmange. 

1 cup strong coffee or chocolate, 2 cups thin sweet cream, sweeten 
quite sweet, \ of box of gelatine dissolved, mix all together, strain, 
set on ice till hard like jelly ; eat with sweetened cream. 

Mrs. MATHEWS. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Soak 1 teacup tapioca over night in milk, then stir in the yolks of 
3 eggs beaten with 1 cup of white sugar, flavor to taste, pour on 1 
quart boiling milk and stir well ; when the mixture boils, stir in 
gently the beaten whites of 3 eggs. To be eaten cold. 

Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 

Cornstarch Blancmange. (Prof. Blot.) 

Boil 1 pint milk ten minutes ; beat 3 tablespoons cornstarch with 
< old milk, and stir gradually into the boiling milk; boil \ minute 
and pour into a mould. To be eaten cold with milk and sugar 
flavored to taste, or with the following : 

Cornstarch Sauce.— \ pint milk boiled, yolks of 2 eggs, and 2 
I ableBpoons sugar beaten together and stirred into the milk ; ilavor 
to taste. Mrs. J. MORGAN SMITH. 



41 



Arrow Root Custard. 

1 qt- milk, o eggs, 1 tablespoon arrowroot, a little s;i!t and sugar 
to taste, flavor with lemon. Mns. FARMER. 

Ice Cream. 

To a qt. of milk, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 1 egg beaten separate- 
ly, beat the yolks and starch together, wet in a little cold mijk, add 
the boiling milk till it thickens, not boils, sweeten and flavor to 
taste, beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in when yon take the 
other from the fire ; to two quarts add one of cream, though less 
will do. Mrs. S. L. WITHEY. 

Blackberry Syrup. 
To 1 pint juice use 1 lb. white sugar, g oz. cinnamon. £ oz. mace, 2 
teaspoons cloves; boil together 15 minutes, strain through a cloth, 
when cool add 1 wineglass of brandy to every pint of syrup, bottle 
and seal up. Mrs. N. CARPENTER. 

Spanish Cream. 

2 qts. milk, 3 cups sugar, 6 eggs beaten separately, |- box gelatine, 
1 gill wine, juice of 1 lemon ; put the gelatine into 1 pint cold milk, 
boil the rest of the milk and pour to it, then add the yolks of the 
eggs and the wine and 2 cups sugar, bake till a nice brown, beat the 
whites with a cup of sugar and a little lemon and put on top, put in 
the oven to stiffen. Mrs. CROSBY. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 
Cut the apples in halves, put them in water enough to cover and 
boil till tender, but not to a mash, strain off the juice through a 
flannel bag, use a pound of crushed sugar to a pint of juice, boil ten 
minutes. 

Ice Cream. 
12 eggs, 2 lb. sugar, 1 tablespoons cornstarch, 1 gallon new milk, 
cook in kettle of water like custard; flavor with vanilla. 

Mns. 0. S. CAMP. 



Tomato Catsup. 
1 tablespoon mustard, 1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cinna- 
mon, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon cloves, 
1 nutmeg, 1 qt. good vinegar, to 3 qts. pulp. Mrs. E. E. JUDD. 

Cucumber Catsup. 
Take cucumbers suitable for the table, peel and grate them, salt a 
little, and put in a bag to drain over night; in the morning season 
to taste with salt, pepper and vinegar, put in small jars and seal 
tight for fall or winter use. Mrs. STEVENS. 

Rich Pudding Sauce. 
1 teacup sugar, A teacup butter, 1 large spoon boiling water, 3 
large spoonsful of wine. Mks. S. L. AyTTHEY. 

Pudding Sauce. 

1 cup sugar, ! s cup butter stirred to a cream, 1 teaspoon flour, 
timi £ cup boiling water to the flour and boil, then pour over the 
butter and sugar, flavor to taste. Mrs. S. L. WITHEY. 

Cabbage Salad. 

2 eggs, butter the size of I au egg, 2 taplespoons sugar, 1 eoffeecup 
vinegar, mustard and pepper ; cook in kettle of water like custard ; 
chop the cabbage and pour the dressing on cold. 

Mrs. W. D. FOSTER. 
Corn for "Winter Use. 
Scald the corn on the cob, and cut it off as for drying, put 3 tea- 
cups of corn to 1 or' salt, pack in jars ; when used, freshen and cook 
with milk, and season with pepper, butter, cream, and a little sugar. 

Mks. E. M. KENDALL. 

Pickled Plums. 
1 pint vinegar, 1 lb. sugar, 1 ounce cloves, 1 ounce cinnamon, for 
every three fbs ; plums ; scald together and pour on hot 3 successive 
days. Mrs. FARMER. 



43 

Gooseberry Catsup. 

9 lbs. gooseberries, 6 lbs. brown sugar, put on the fruit and sugar, 
With a gill of water, and boil slowly for three hours, stiring con- 
stantly, 1 qt. good vinegar and boil ' hour, then add ! teacup full 
of cloves, and the same of allspice, just as you are taking it off. 
Bottle while hot, and seal. It will keep for years. Plums and 
Cherries arc nice done in the same way. 

Mhs. F. M. ohamberLin. 

Water Melon Pickle. 

10 lbs. water melon rind boiled in pure water until tender, drain 
the water off, and make a syrup of 2 lbs. white sugar, 1 qt. vinegar, 
X oz. cloves, 1 oz. cinnamon. The syrup to be poured over the 
rind boiliDg hot 3 days in succession. 

Mhs. AMELIA YOUNG, 

Louisville, Kv. 
German Sauce. 

1 gal. finely chopped cabbage, 1 gal. chopped green tomatoes, 1 
quart do. onions, 3 gills white mustard seed, 1| do. celery seed, 2 
tablespoons ground mustard, 2 do. pepper, 2 do. cloves, 2 do. mixed 
spices, mace, allspice and cinnamon, 1 gill salt, 1 lb brown sugar. :: 
quarts best vinegar, mix all together and boil until soft, stirring fre- 
quently. A tin or porcelain kettle should be used. The tomatoes 
should be sliced, a little salt sprinkled over them, and thoroughly 
drained. Mrs. F. M. CHAMBERLAIN. 

Dressing for Lettuce or Cabbage. 

3 well beaten eggs, 3 tablespoons sweet cream, 3 tablespoons 
prepared mustard, a bit of butter, 10 tablespoonsful of vinegar, a little 
cayenne pepper and salt, 2 tablespoons brown sugar', put it over the 
tire and stir until it thickens. Mas. F. M. CHAMBERLAIN. 

Chow Chow. 
1 peck of green tomatoes chopped fine, add 1 teacup salt, let stand 
over night, strain off in the morning and add 6 green peppers, 4 
onions, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup grated horse radish, 1 tablespoon ground 
cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 of allspice, cover with vinegar and cook 
until done. MBS. L. S. LOVELL, Ionia. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 
1 peck green tomatoes, 1 cup horse radish, 6 green peppers, 1 
tablespoon ground allspice, 1 do. cinnamon, 1 do. cloves, 1 cup sugar, 
3 pints good vinegar; boil until soft ; slice the tomatoes, sprinkle 
salt over them, and let them stand over night to drain. 

F. M. C, BuDkcr Hill, 

Illinois. 



44 



Staten Island Peach Pickle. 

7 tjss. peaches (a cling best) 3 lbs. sugar, 1 pint best vinegar, \ oz. 
mace, I, oz. cinnamon, | oz. cloves ; wash and dry the peaches, boil 
tin: vinegar, spices and sugar, pour over the peaches and let them 
stand 24 hours ; repeat the second day ; the third day, put the whole 
over the tire and let them come to a boil, when they are done. 

Mrs. F. M. CHAMBERLAIN. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Break up a bushel of tomatoes in l£ pints salt, ^ lb. cloves, £ lb 
pepper, -\ lb cinnamon, \ lb allspice ; let them remain over night; in 
the morning place them over the fire, and let boil 3 or 4 hours, about 
J, hour before taking off the fire, add 1 quart vinegar ; strain through 
a sieve aud bottle immediately. Use whole spices. 

Mns. FARMER. 

Pickled Oysters, 

1 gallon of oys'crs; wash them well in their own liquor ; carefully 
clear away the particles of shell, then put them into an iron kettle, 
pour the liquor over them, add salt to your taste; let them just 
come to the boiling point, then skim them out and lay in a dish to 
cool ; put a sprig of mace, and a little whole pepper, and allow the 
liquor to boil some time, skimming it now aud then so long as any 
scum rises. Pour it into a pan and let it cool. When perfectly cool, 
add h piut of strong vinegar, place the oysters in a jar and pour the 
liquor over them. Mes. DR. GROUT. 

Pickled Purple Cabbage. 

Quarter them, put them in a keg and sprinkle over them a great 
deal of salt ; let them stand 5 or f! days ; to a gallon of vinegar. 1 oz. 
mace, pepper corns, cinnamon, cloves and allspice; heat the vinegar 
hot, put in a little alum and turn on, leave the salt on, heat and turn 
on G or 7 times. Mns. THROOP. 

Currant Catsup. 

4 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar, cinnamon and cloves. 

Mrs. BREWER. 

Spiced Currants. 

5 lbs. currants, 4 lbs. brown sugar, 2 tablespoons cloves, 2 table- 
spoons cinnamon, 1 pint vinegar ; boil 2 hours or more until thick. 



45 



No. 2. 
4 quarts ripe run-ants. 3J tbs brown Bugar, l pint vinegar, l table- 
spoon allspice, t tablespoon cloves, little nutmeg; boil 1 hour stir- 
ring occasionally. Miss FANNIE McQUEWAN. 

Chili Sauce 
6 large ripe tomatoes, sliced ; 2 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 2 green peppers, little white mustard seed, 2 small onions, a 
tumbler of vinegar; boil 2 hours ; after cooking, strain through a 
cullender. Mrs. PIERSON, Ionia. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

For 1 bushel make a brine that will bear up an egg. Heat boiling 
hot and pour over the cucumbers ; let them stand 24 hours, then 
wipe dry; heat vinegar boiling hot and pour over and let them 
stand 24 hours, then change the vinegar and add 1 quait brown 
sugar, 1 pint white mustard seed, small handful cloves and china 
inon, alum the size of an egg, a little celery seed ; heat boiling hot 
and pour over the cucumbers. Mrs. 0. S. CAMP. 

Cucumbers. 
A good way to put down cucumbers, a few at a time : 
When gathered from the vines, wash, and put in a firkin or half 
barrel, layers of cucumbers and rock salt alternately, enough salt to 
make sufficient brine to cover them, no water ; cover with a cloth ; 
keep them under the brine with a heavy board; take off the cloth 
and rinse it. every time you put in fresh cucumbers, as a scum will 
rise and settle upon it. It is not necessary to make new brine every 
year; use plenty of salt and it will keep for years. To prepare pick- 
les for use, soak in hot water, and keep in warm place until they 
are fresh enough, then pour spiced vinegar over them and let them 
stand over night, then pour that off and put on fresh. 

Tar Soap. 
4 cakes Babbitt's soap, ', pint tar, h lb pulverized pumice, 1 quart 
water; boil fifteen minutes; when cool, cut into cakes for use. Good 
for chaped hands. Mrs. C. 0. ROOD. 

To Restore Rusty Black Lace. 
A teaspoon ful of gum arabic dissolved in 1 teacupful of boiling 
water; when cool, add { teaspoon black ink, dip the lace and spread 
smoothly between the folds of a newspaper, and press dry with book 



46 



or the like. Lace shawls can be dressed over in this way, by pin- 
ning- a sheet to the carpet, and stretching the shawl upon tbat. 

Mrs. F. M. CHAMBERLAIN. 
To dress over black alpacas or black worsted dress goods of any 
kind, sponge with cold black tea, and iron on wrong side. 

To Clean Black Ribbon or Silk. 
Take an old kid glove (black preferable) no matter how old, and 
boil it in a pint of water for a short time, then let it cool until t! e 
leather can be taken in the hand without burning ; use the glove to 
sponge off the ribbon ; If the ribbon is very dirty, dip it into water 
and draw it through the fingers a few times before sponging. After 
cleaning lay a piece of paper over the ribbon and iron ; paper is 
better than cloth. The ribbon will look like new. 

Moths in Carpets. 
Take a coarse crash towel, wring it out in clean water and spread 
it out smoothly on the carpet, then iron it dry, repeating the opera- 
tion in all suspected places, and those least used ; then, by placing a 
few crumbs of sulphur under the edges of the carpet, the result is 
accomplished. 

To Renovate Black Silk. 
Rub the silk all over on the right side with a solution of ammonia 
and water, (2 teaspoons of powdered ammonia to £ pint warm water,) 
and smooth it on the wrong side with a moderately hot iron, and 
the silk will present a bright black appearance. 

To Remove Iron-Rust from "White Goods. 
1 oz. oxalic acid dissolved in 1 quart water; wet the iron-rust 
spots in this solution, and lay in the hot sun ; the rust will disappear 
in from 3 to 20 minutes, according to its depth ; or, hold the rusted 
cloth, wet in this solution over the steam of a boiling tea-kettle; in 
either case the cloth should be will rinsed in water as soon as the 
rust disappears, to prevent injury from the acid. Many use this 
acid to remove fruit and ink stains from white fabrics. When 
diluted still more, it may be used to remove fruit and ink stains 
from the hands. 

Disinfectants. 

The Homoeopathic World says, roasted coffee is one of the most 
powerful means, not only of rendering animal and vegetable effluvia 
innoxious, but of actually destroying it. 



47 



To Cure Ear Ache. 
There is hardly an ache to which children arc subject, so hunt to 
bear and difficult to cure as the ear ache ; but there is a remedy 
never known to fail ; take a bit of cotton batting-, put on it a pinch 
of black pepper, gather it up and tie it, dip it in sweet oil and insert 
it in the ear; put a flannel bandage over the head to keep it warm ; 
it. will tnve immediate relief. * 



HINTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Willful waste makes woful want. 

Have a place for evei'5 T thing and keep everything in it's place. 
Do everything in it's proper time. 

Remember the Golden Rule in the kitchen as well as in the parlor. 
Punctuality as well as patience and perseverance, is necessary to 
the housekeeper. 

Do not rob your kitchen of convenient furniture in order to adorn 
your parlor. 

See that your house is well ventilated in winter as well as in sum- 
mer. 

Cleanliness is next to Godliness. 

When you have a rule, follow it ; guess work fails nine times in 
ten. 

In selecting carpets, choose small figures, they are more durable 
and furnish a room more. 

Tea is good to wash varnished grained wood. 

A little milk in the water is good in washing oil cloths. 

Old potatoes are improved by keeping them in cold water for 
several hours before boiling. 

Put salt meat into cold water ; put fresh meat into boiling water. 
The more gently meat boils the more tender it is. Allow about 
twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat and twenty- 
four minutes for salt meats. 

In making sou]) put the meal into cold water and let it grow 
warm slowly. 

Put fish into cold water to boil. 

Vegetables should be put into boiling salted water to cook, and 
taken up as soon as done. 



49 



Potatoes should steam dry before mashing 
Do not cook butter, it makes it oily. 

Oat meal mush is one of the most wholesome articles of food, 
lu making nice cakes, sift Hour and sugar before measuring, and 
always wash your butter. 

Two quarts of wetting will make one hundred and ten raised 
biscuits. 

One gallon of Ice Cream will serve twenty-five persons, and more 
if fruit or jelly is served with it. 

1 lb. of butter equals 1 qt. 

1 lb. of loaf sugar equals 1 qt. 

1 lb. of flour equals 1 qt. 

1 lb. 2 ozs. of Indian meal equals 1 qt. 

1 lb. 2 ozs. brown sugar equals 1 qt. 

1 lb 1 oz. powdered sugar equals 1 qt. 

10 eggs equals 1 lb. 

1 gal. equals 1-2 peck. 

16 tablespoons equals 1-2 pint. 



COXIXTARY COTJFX.ETS. 

Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roast lamb on. 

Veal cutlets dip in egg and bread crumb, 
Fry till you see a brownish red come. 

Grate Gruyere cheese on macaroni, 
Make the top crisp but not too bony. 

In venison gravy, currant jelly, 
Mix with old port — see Francatelli. 

In dressing salad, mind this law. 

With two hard yolks, use one that's raw. 

Roast veal with rich stock gravy serve, 
And pickled mushroons, too, observe. 

Roast poi'k, sans apple sauce, past doubt, 
Is "Hamlet" with the Prince left out. 

Your mutton chops with paper cover, 
And make them amber brown all over. 

Broil lightly your beefsteaks — to fry it, 
Argues contempt of christian diet. 

Kidneys, a finer flavor gain, 

By stewing them in good champagne. 

Buy stall-fed pigeons — when you've got them, 
The way to cook them is to pot them. 

Woodgrouse are dry whengumps have marred ,'em, 
Before you roast 'em always lard 'em. 



51 

It gives true epicures the vapors, 
To see boiled mutton, minus capers. 

Boiled turkey, gourmands know of course, 
Is exquisite with celery sauce. 

The cook deserves a hearty cuffing, 

Who serves roast fowls with tasteless stuffing. 

Smelts require egg and biscuit powder, 
Don't put fat pork in clam chowder. 

Egg sauce, few make it right, alas 1 
Is good with blue-fish or with bass. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod, 
A fish when fresh to feast a god. 

Shad stuffed and baked is most delicious, 
It would have electrified Apicius. 

Roasted in paste, a haunch of mutton, 
Might make ascetics play the glutton. 

But one might rhyme for weeks this way, 
And still have lots of things to say, 
And so I'll close — fer reader mine, 
This is about the hour I dine. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



I! Ill 



014 489 161 2 

How to Weigh Without Scales. 



The following tables will very materially aid those 
housekeepers who do not have scales at hand, to meas- 
ure any article wanted. Allowance should be made for 
extraordinary dryness or excessive moisture, of the 
articles needed : 

Wheat Flour, 1 ft, is 1 quart 

Indian Meal, 1 ft, is 1 quart 

Butte 1 " when soft, 1 ft. is 1 quart 

Loat sugar, broken, 1 ft, is 1 quart 

White sugar, powdered, 1 ft, 1 oz. are 1 quart 

Best bvown sugar, 1 ft, 2 oz. are 1 quart 

Eggs 10 eggs are 1 ft. 

Flour, 8 quarts are 1 peck 

Flour 4 pecks are 1 bu. 

LIQUIDS, ETC. 

Sixteen large tablesnoonfuls are £ pint. 

Eight " " '< 1 gill. 

Four " « . « i gill. 

Two gills are A pint. 

Two pints are 1 quart. 

Four quarts are 1 gallon . 

A common sized tumbler holds £ pint. 

A common sized wine glass is | gill. 

A teacup is 1 gill. 

A large wineglass is 2 pzs. 

A tablespoonful is ^ oz. 

Forty drops equal 1 teaspoonful. 

Four toaspoonfulls equal. 1 tablespoonful. 



