^^\y^ FAMILY 

Receipt BdoK 



-OF- 



ZJ'seful Information- 






cd" I 'S i.<? s 



oo 



p^ 






p^ - 5 



ti— •; s 



pC4 



C_3 



^. 



e 



.:!^. 



^ 



y. 



©< 



^ - U 



u 



u. ^ 



>'^ 






W^25 iocoH 



CO 



2ZJ«'* 



§3 



iP ::i it 






45 o O 



;=; ^ 



5 o > - o t^ S i ^ 



« ® :: i; SJ ri n 



ii to;^ «? > 



tC--3 



>5 fx 



;2, ^-Zl fcac4 ^ * 



-S ^ "^ . 

■a.2 < 3i 



FOR- 



EVERY HOUSEHOLD. 



DISTRIBUTED GRATIS. 



•BY 



W. C. HAMILTON &> CO,,^ CINCINNATI, O. 



/'/ 



72 



Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by W. C. Hamilton k Co., in the 
Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



WHERE, WHEN, HOW^v 

You Took the Ague is /\ r ^^ 

jyTot * T/ze QizestioA, 

What You Want to Know is. 

What Will Cure You! 

Kress Fever Tonic does the Business, 

And is sold on the Warrant of the Proprietors that it will cure 

Fever and Ague, Cliill and Fever, Dumb 
Ague, and all forms of this malady. 

Go tret ;( bottle and try it. There is no Arsenic, no Strychnine, nor 
any other poisonous property in the medicine. It hns been tried 
lor ten years in tlie worst Ague Districts, and is a success. 

'A Box of Ijiver Pills Free of Charge, ^nritli every Bottle. 

Take the Tonic as directed, and if not cured, ask your druggist 
to give vou back your money. 

We authorize him to sell this GREAT CHILL CURE on these 
tern^s. 

W. C. Hamilton & Oo,, Wholesale Draggists, Cincinnati, 0. 

Sumner, Ills., August ist, 1873. 
W. C. Hamilton &: Co. — Gentlemen: 

We have sold Krkss Fever Tonic for tJie last Two 
Years, with the greatest satisfaction— ^We keep almost all the best 
known AjTue Cures, but Kress has given such general satisfaction, 
that we sell twice as much of it, as of any other Chill Cure we 
handle. SHEPPARD & JONES, Druggists. 



Tlie following cases amply testify to the merits of the Tonic, 
in this locality. 

ONE BOTTLE cured Three Children in the family of 
George Vanderwent 

ONE BOTTLE cured A. J. McCoy, his Mother, and a 
Young Ladv visiting the family. 

ONE BOTTLE cured Chailes Brian, and Two others in 
the family. 

ONE BOTTLE cured Jacob Petty, his Wife and four children. 

ONE BOTTLE cured M. W. Seabright and three children. 

FOUR DOSES cured Alf. Ridgely, and he had tried almost 
every known Ague Medicine. 

Two-thirds of these were old obstinate cases, and we are person- 
ally acquainted with the parties, and vouch for the truth of the 
above statements. SHEPPARD & JONES. 



VALUABLE RECIPES 



COMniED FROM 



The Scrap Books of Experienced 

COOKS, HOUSEKEEPEP|S k LAUNDRESSES, 



AND ADAPTED TO GENERAL 



HOUSEHOLD WANTS. 



CAKES. 



Elack Cake— One pound sugar, one pouiid l)rowned flour, three 
quarters of a pound of butter, twelve eggsj- one pint inf)lasso.s, one 
glass wine, one glass brandy, one tablespoohful cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful cloves, one teaspoonful mace, two nutmegs, two pounds 
raisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron, one pinch black 
pepper, one teaspoonful C. H, Collins' Paragon Baking Powder. 



Chocolate Cake— Four eggs; (leaving out the whites of two for 
ioing) one teacupf til sugar, half cup butter, half cup water, two cups 
flour, two teaspoonfuls C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder, {mixed 
in the dry flour.) 

Icing for same— Whites of two eggs, one cup powdered sugar, 
six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, flavoring to the ta-tc, put on 
as soon as the cake comes from the oven. 



Cream Cake— One cup of cream, one cup of sugar, two cups of 
fllour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus : flavor wMth lemon. 



Cup Cake— Half cup batter, one cup sugar, five eggs. tv*'o cups 
flour, and three teaspooiisful C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder, 
mixed through the dry flour. 



Cttp Cake— Mrs. R. T. M— One teacupful of butter, three of white 
sugar, four of flour, one of milk six eggs. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the milk, then the eggs and flour, alternately. Flavor 
with extract of lemon, beat hard, then add three te.aspoonfuls of C. 
H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder. Bake in a tolerably quick oven 
about an hour. 

The above recipe baked In pie pans is excellent for a Jelly Cake. 



Cup Cake— One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cu})s flour, 
five eggs, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls C. H. Collins" Para- 
gon Baking Powder. 



C. H. COLLINS' 



Patented, 



3: 




Jan. 30, 1872 



^jtiiigPoW*^^^ 



MANUFACTURKI) !!Y 



Alfred S. Wood & Co. 

CINCINNATI, O. 

And sold by all Grocers. 



Ask for Collins* rnrifluUli tahe no substitute 



EEAD WHAT CHEMISTS SAY: 

Cincinnati, February 28, 1872. 
C. H. COLLINS, Esq. 

Dear Sir : Being thoroughly acquainted with the composition of 
your "Paragon'' Baking PowDf:R, and knowing it to be perfectly 
pure, and free from any kind of adulteration, I have no hesitation in 
recommending it to all parties who desire a first-class quick yeast, as 
one of the very b8St in the market. Your combination makes it 
a desirable article for long sea voyages, as it will keep for any length 
of time, in any climale. Truly Yours, 

E. S. WAYNE, Chemist. 



Valuable Recipes — Cakes. 



ROLT^ED Jelly Cake— One cup of sugar, one tablospoonful of but- 
ter, one and a half cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup of milk, one eg<5, 
tAVO teaspoonfuls of C. H. Collins' Paragon Bakiri>r Powder, sifted 
with tlie flour. Bake in a large sheet, and when done, spread on the- 
jelly and cut the sheet in strips three or four inches wide, and roll up. 
If, instead of jelly, a sauce is made and spread between the layers of 
the cake, it may oe eaten as cream pie, and furnish a V(iry nice and 
easily prepared desert. 

For the iSauce.— Beat together one egg, one teaspoon ful of corn- 
starch, one tablespoonful of flour, and two of sugar. Stir it into a half 
pint of milk, and then boil till it forms a good custard ; remove from 
the fire, and flavor with vanilla. 

RoLiiED Jelly CAKE-Five eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls C. H, Collins' Paragon Baking Powder sifted with 
the flour, two tablespoonfuls water. Bake in four jelly-pans. Have 
ready for each a cloth a little larger than the cake, tliickly sprinkled 
■with powdered sugar on which turn the cake while hot. Spread with 
jelly, and beginning at one end, roll up, pushing it with the cloth, 
which may be wrapped around the roll to preserve the moisture of 
the cake. 

Jumbles— Put one pound of pulverized loaf sugar and a grated 
nntmeg into two pounds of flour, pass it through a seive. lieat four 
eggs as light as possible ; melt over water three quarters of a pound of 
butter, beat it and the eggs together, and melt them with tJie flour; 
roll the paste thin, and cut them with a jumble-cutter; scatter over 
the top pulverized loaf sugar, and bake on buttered papers, witliout 
browning. 

Pound Jumbles— One pound of sugar, one of butter woiked until 
light, ten eggs beaten separately, add flrst the yolks and then the 
whites, with a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonfu) of lemon, and one 
of vanilla, and flour to make a paste that will roll well. Bake well. 

LiADY Cake— One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half pound 
of butter, flve eggs, one cup of milk, one teuspoonful of soda, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, twelve bitter ahnonds blanched and pound- 
ed. Bake thin in three small sheets. 



Lady Cake— One coffee cup of sugar, o!ie-third cortee cup of but- 
ter, one and a half cofl'ee cups of flour, one- third eottee cup of milk, 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of C. H. Collins" Paragon Bak- 
ing Powder. 



Loaf Cake— Three cups sugar, one cup butter, three cups sweet 
milk, six cups flour, four eggs, one pound raisins, half pound citron, 
four teaspoonfuls C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Pov/der, brandy and 
nutmeg. 

Marble Cake— 3/rs. Gamphell—Yox the white dough take one cup 
■white sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of cream, two cups of flour, 
whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Black dough, 
one and a half cups of brown sugar, one and a half of niolasses, one 
cup of sour milk, half cup of butter, three cups flour, yolks of six 
eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
pepper and ntttmeg ; last a teaspoonful of soda. Put in the mould a 
spoonful first of one and then the other and bake in slow oven. 

The most exasperating of all diseases, perhaps, is Ague. Kress 
Fever Tonic is warranted to cure it or the money is refunded. Try it. 
A box of pills with every bottle. Price, ^Ifl.OO. 




ESTABLISHED 1854. 

John A. Molt^enhoff. F. Mollenhoff. 

OHN 

DIRECT IMPORTERS OF 

FRENCH CHINA, 

GERMAN, BELGIAN, 

AND BOHEMIAN 

GLASSWARE, 

GERMAN, 

ENGLISH 

AND FRENCH 

FANCY GOODS 

LAVA, PARIAN, 

AND BISQUE GOODS, 

OUEENSWARE, 



Orders for Direct Jj}!/>ortaHo,'is a Specialty. Original 
Packages in Bond., at low prices. 

46 & 48 FOUxNTAIN SQUARE, 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 



Valuable Recipes — Cakes. 



Marble Cake— If7iz7e dough. "White sugar two cups, ])utter one 
cup, sour milk half a cup, the whites of four eggs, cream tartar two 
teaspoonfuls, soda one teaspoonfal, flour three cups. Dark dough, 
brown sugar one cup, molasses half a cup, butter one cup, sour milk 
one-fourth cup, the yolks of four eggs, tiour three cups, soda half tea- 
spoonful, one-half a nutmeg, tablespoonful of cinnamoji, luilf a tea- 
spoonful of allspice, half a teaspoonful of cloves. Bake in two long 
deep tins after you mix the two parts as you please. 

Mountain Cake— M>-s. J. H. i^.— Two cups of sugar and one cup 
of butter, beat into a cream ; one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, three and a half cups of 
flour, the whites of eight eggs beaten. For an icing take the whiles of 
two eggs beaten separately, three cups of sugar, flavor to suit. 

Mountain Cake— Take one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, oae pound of flour, six eggs; beat the eggs separately. Add 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. 
Make a frosting of three eggs and lay the same as jelly cake. Flavor 
the cake with lemon, but the frosting with vanilla. 



Newport Tea Cake— Half cup butter, half cup sugar, tliree e§:gs, 
beaten, one pint of flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of C. H. Collins' 
Paragon Baking Powdei*. Make into a stiff batter. 

Pound Cake -One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, eight eggs, 
one pound of flour, season with cloves, nut)neg or cinnam'6n, add 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder. 

Silver Cake— One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, one 
cup of milk, two and one-half cups of flour, whites of five eggs, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

Silver Cake— One pound white sugar, half pound butter, the 
whites of fourteen eggs, three teaspoonfuls C. II. Collins' Paragon 
Baking Powder, thirteen ounces flour, beat the butter to a cream, 
after having washed it, bake -two and one-half hours, commence 
with a slow Are. 



Sponge Dkop Cakes— Make a sponge cake, heat a dripping-pan 
hot enough to cook a griddle cake, butter muffln rings and set them 
in a pan, and when' the rings and pan are hot drop a tablespoonful of 
cake in each ring and set them in the oven a few moments. Have 
icing ready and whiten them while hot. 

Sponge Cake— 3/rs. R. T^'M-One pint cup of white sugar, one of 
sifted flour, eight eggs ; beat the yolks of the eggs smooth, add the 
sugar and beat hard, then add the whites already beaten to a froth, 
then stir in lightly, and gradually add the flour and flavor with the 
juice or extract of lemon. Do not beat any after the flour goes in. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

Spice Cakj^s— Mrs. .7. //. i^.— Take a cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of 
cinnanion, two teaspoonfuls of ginger and flour enough to make it 
tolerably stifl". Roll thin and cut into small cakes. 



• Surprise Cake.- One egg, one cup of sugar, one half cup of 
shortening, one cup.of sour millc, one teaspoonful of soda. Season to 
taste. 

The impurities of the system are eliminated by the Kidneys, 
Liver and Bowels. Hamilton's Buchu and Dandelion promotes the 
action of these organs. Take no substitute. Price, §1.00. 



E.T.Carson & Co. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 

GjS F1XTUI[ES, CHANDELIERS, 

Wrought Iron Pipe Pittings, Coal Oil Lamps, &c. 



IMrORTERS OF 



GLASS CHAIIDEIIEIIS, BRONZES, GLOBES, k 

Wo. 77 West Fourth St. 

pike's OPERA HOUSE, CINCINNATI. 




OS °2- s 



P -s 11 « 



8-2 -3 









.IbS?!? 



t- = S S 3 






Valuable Recipes — Candies. 



Stravc'berry Short Cakk— Rub a large spoonful of lard and one 
of butter in one quart of silted flour; put in a little salt and make a 
dough of cold water. Roll it out in thin cakes about the size of a 
breakfast plat* ; put in a layer of strawberries and sugar, then 
another cake of dough, another layer of strawberries and sugar, with 
a top layer of dough. Bake it slowly in an oven or stove, and eat for 
desert, with sugar and butter sauce. 

Tea Cake- Six cups flour, three cups sugar, half cup butter, three 
eggSj one cup sweet milk two teaspoonfuls C. H. Collins' Paragon 
Baking Powder. 

White or Delicate Cake— Three cups of sugar, half cup of but- 
ter, one of sweet milk, Ave of flour, the whites of twelve eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda ; flavor with bitter 
tU.niouds ; to be frosted or not. 

Icing For Cakes— Take one pound white sugar, and pour over it 
enough cold water to dissolve the lumps, then take the whites of 
three eggs and beat them a little, but not to a stitt" froth, add then to the 
sugar and water, put Into a deep bowl, place the bowl in a vessel of 
boiling water, and beat up the mixture, it will first become thin and 
clear, and afterwards begin to thicken, when it becomes quite thick, 
remove it from the fire and continue the beating until cold, tlien 
spread on with knife, it is perfectly white and glistens beautifully. 



CANDIES. 

Taffie Candy— Put into a brass skillet, or preserving-pan three 
ounces of very fresh butter, as soon as it is just rielted add a pound of 
brown sugar of iriotlerate quality; keep these stirred gently over a 
very clear fire for about fifteen minutes, or until a little of the mix- 
ture, dropped into a basin of cold water, breaks clear between the 
teeth without sticking to them ; when it is boiled to this point. It 
must be poured out immediately, or it \\\\\ burn. The grated rind of 
a lemon, added w^hen the taffie is half done, inaproves it much ; or a 
small teaspoonful of ground ginger. 

Almond Taffie— Boil a syrup of a pound of sugar to half a pint 
of water to caramel height,throwing in an ounce of blanched almonds 
split into strips, and an ounce of butter. When the candy hardens at 
once in the water, turn it out on a buttered slab, and cut up into thin 
squares. 

Home-Made Candy— Four tablespoon fuls of water, one pound of 
cofl'ee sugar, one teaspoonful cream tartar, boil, stirring constantly to 
avoid burning, when done put into an earthern dish, flavor with 
vanilla, work in the hands at once, pull till white. 

Mrs. Harrison's Candy— Two pounds white sugar, eight table- 
spoonfuls of water, one teaspoonful of cream, tartar ; boil till it cracks ; 
do not stir ; pour out aud flavor. 

Sugar Kisses.— Whisk whites of four eggs to a stifT froth, and stir 
in half a pound of sifted white sugar; flavoring to suit taste. When 
stiff, put on a white paper, size of each about half an egg, one inch 
apart ; place the paper on a board half an inch thick, and put in a hot 
oven. When done, put bottoms of two together. These are delicious. 

Ague poison can l>e completely expelled from the system with 
Kress Fever Tonic. Chills can be broken up so well by no other 
remedy. Price, Sl.oO. A box of Pills free with every bottle. 



SECRET OF BEAUTY 




HOW TO BEAUTIFY THE COMPLEXION. 

If there is one wish dearer than another to the lieart of women, 
it is the desire to be beautiful. The wonderful reputation of GEO. 
W. LAIRD'S " BLOOM OF YOUTH " is very justly deserved. P'or 
improving and beautifying the skin, it is undoubtedly the best toilet 
preparation in the world; it is composed of entirely harmless materi- 
als, and while the immediate effects are to render the skin a beautiful 
creamy white, it will after a few applications make it soft, smooth and 
beautifully clear; removing all blemishes and discolorations. 

This delightful toilet preparation has been severely tested by the 
Board of Health of New York City. Dr. Louis A. Sayres 
after carefully examining the analysis made by the above Board, pro- 
nounced 

"G.W. Laird's Bloom of Youth" 

HARMLESS AND ENTIRELY FREE FROM ANYTHING INJURIOUS 
TO THE HEALTH OR SKIN. 

Beware of Counterfeits. 

Ask your Druggist for Geo. W. Laird's "Bloom of Youth." 
The genuine has the United States Revenue Stamp engraved on the 
front label, and the name, " G. W. Laird," blown in the glass on the 
back of every bottle. 

Sold by all Druggists and Pancy G-oods Dealers. 



Valuable Recipes — Puddings and Pies. 



Chocx)i.ate Caramels— Take half a pint rich milk, and put i-tto 
boil in a porcelain kettle ; scrape down a square and a half of Baker's 
chocolate^ put it in a very clean tin-cup, and set it on the top of a 
stove till It becomes soft. Let tlie milk boil up twice. Then add, grad- 
ually, the chocolate, and stir both over the fire till thoroughly mixed 
and free from lumps. Stir in half pint of the best white sugar, pow- 
dered, and half a gill (or four large tablespoonfuls) of molasses. Let 
the whole boil fast and constantly (so as to bubble) for at least an hour 
or more, till it is nearly as stiff as good mush. When all is done add 
a small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and transfer the mixture to 
shallow tin pans, slightly greased with very nice sweet oil. Set it on 
ice, or in a very cool place, and while yet soft mark it deeply in 
squares with a very sharp knife. When quite hard cut the squares 
apart. If it does not harden well it has not been boiled long enough, 
or fast enough. 



PUI3i:>INGhS & PIES. 

Apple Frittkbs.— This is a favorite dish with many, and often 
preferred to dumplings. Make a batter, not very stiff, with one quart 
of milk, three eggs, and flour to bring it to right consistence. Pare 
and core half a dozen large apples, and chop them to about the size 
of small peas, and mix them well in the batter. Fry them in lard, 
as you Mould doughnuts. For trimmings, powdered sugar is best, 
though good brown sugar will do. 

Black Pudding— Jl/r.s. J. H. i^.— One tea cup of molasses, one tea 
cup of milk, half tea cup of butter, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, half a nutmeg and other spices to suit the 
taste, a pint bowl of raisins, flour to make a stiff batter ; steam it two 
and a half hours. Serve with sauce. 

Boiled Indian Pudding— Two cups Indian meal, two cups flour, 
one egg, half cup molasses, one teaspoonf^il soda, two teaspoonfuls 
ci'eam iarta r, wet with milk till about thick as cake, steam three hours. 
Never lift the cover while it is cooking, or it will not be light. Sauce. 

Bread and Butter Pudding— When dry bread is left, spread it 
with butter, and pile up the slices in a pudding dish, p^ill in with 
custard and a few raisins. Bake long enough to cook the custard. 

Bread and Milk Pudding— iV/rs. J. H. i^.— Take one pint of milk, 
put it on the fire to boil, not too long or it will whey,— then have 
three eggs well beaten with as much sugar as you think will make it 
sweet enough ; then add a piece of butter as large as an egg, put in 
some raisins, and break about three cupfulls of bread in small pieces ; 
spread a little butter over the top, together with a little cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Put it in a pan and bake it. 

Cottage Pudding— Rub into one pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of eream-of-tartar ; rub together one tablespoonful of butter; and one 
teacupful of sugar, and add to the flour; dissolve one teaspoonful of 
soda in a- teacupful of sweet milk : beat one egg to a froth and add to 
the milk ; th^n stir the latter briskly into the flour, etc., turn into a 
buttered pudding-dish and bake half an hour in a qiiick oven. 

As a sauce for the above, beat the j'olk of one egg, a teacupful of 
sugar, and a half a teacupful of melted butter. To this add half a tea- 
cupful of wine and the same of boiling water. While this is cooling 
beat to a froth the white of one egg, and then stir into the same. 



The virtues of Bnchu are known to evei-ybody. Combined with 
Dandelion, it is a decide<:l success in Kidney complaints. Ask for 
Hamilton's Buchu and Dandelion. Price, :^i.00. 



Criminal Invalids. 



Life and Health are God's gifts, and it is a sin to imperil 
them by neglect. We can if we choose, promptly 
relieve the disorders of the stomach, bowels, 
liver and nerves, which lead to chronic dys- 
pepsia, dysentery, diarrhoea, liver com- 
plaint and paralysis, by having re- 
course to 




SlETEHl 





TARRANT'S 

mmi Ssllzsr issri 



si! 



It has been a proven fact for thirty years, that this agree- 
able and wholesome alterative will always prevent the 
minor ailments of the body from culminating in 
dangerous maladies, if administered at the 
proper time. Meet the first symptom 
with tliis inestimable remedy. 

Seif-n8£4le<3t in sticli cases is C^ime* 



SOLI) BY JS.^^JJ DRUG GUSTS. 



Valuable Recipes — PiLddings and Pies. 



Gkeen-Corn Pudding— Allow one long ear of sweet-corn for each 
person. Take half a pint of milk, one egg, a desert-spoonful of white 
sugar, one of sweet butter, a teaspoonful of salt to every ear. Beat the 
eggs and sugar well together, and add the milk and salt. Cut the 
cornoff the cobs with a bharp knife, and chop the divided grains with 
a chopping-knife, but not too line ; or better still, split each row of 
grain down the middle before cutting them ofT the cobs. The corn 
m%ist not be boiled first. Stir the chopped corn into the milk, and 
bake in a brisk oven in custard-cups or in a tin pan until the top is 
nicely browned, but not hardened. Serve hot, without sauce. This 
is a delicious dish. Some persons prefer it cold. Common corn may 
be used, if young and tender, but requires as much again sugar. 



A Good Christmas Plttm Pudding.— With one pound of clear, 
dry currants and half a pound of good rasins stoned, mix one pound 
of bread-crumbs, half a pound of fine flour, and one pound and a half 
of finely sheared suet ; add a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a 
grated nutmeg, a drachm of cinnamon, two cloves, and half a 
dozen almonds, pounded, and an ounce each of candied orange and 
lemon sliced thin ; mix all the materials thoroughly together in a 
bowl, with a glass of brandy and one of sherry ; then beat very well 
six eggs, and slowly stir in till all be well blended ; cover the bowl 
and let the mixture stand for twelve hom-s : then pour it into a pud- 
ding-cloth and tie it, not very tight ; put it into boiling water and 
keep up the boiling for six hours. Serve with sugar sifted over, and 
wine or punch sauce. 

Brandy is usually sent in with a Christmas pudding to be poured 
over the whole pudding, or over each slice, then lighted and served 
in flames. , 

t. 
PiiUM Pudding Sauce— Boil in a quarter of a pint of water for 
twenty minutes the thin rind of half a lemon, and a quarter of a 
Seville orange as thin as possible, with two ounces of sugar; strain 
the liquor into a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter, aud stir it 
over the fire, adding half a glass each of brandy, rum and sherry, and 
a tablespoonful of curacoa may be added or not ; simmer the whole, 
mix it well for five minutes; then serve immediately. Instead of 
the peel, the extract of orange and lemon may be used. 



A Charlotte RussE.— Time to set, six minutes: Some lady fin- 
gers ; three quarters of a pint of good cream ; rather more than half 
one ounce of isinglass; two desert-spoonfuls of curacoa, or good 
extract vanilla ; one ounce of loaf sugar ; a large slice of sponge 
cake ; one egg. 

Take as many lady fingers as will cover the inside of a mould ; 
lightly moisten the edges with the beaten white of an egg, and place 
them upright all round the sides of the mould, slightly over each 
other, or sutficiently close to prevent the cream from escaping. 
Arrange them at the bottom of the mould in a star, or rosette, taking 
care that it is well covered, and then set it in the oven for five or six 
minutes to dry. Whisk the cream with the curacoa. or wine, the 
Isinglass dissolved, and loaf sugar to taste. When sutiiciently firm, 
fill the inside of the Charlotte Russe, and plac-e over it a slice of 
sponge-cake, or bread cut the same shape and size. Cover it with the 
cream, and ornament it with sweetmeats or colored sugar. Place it 
in ice till sbt- 

No disease impairs one's constitution so speedily as Ague. Kress 
Fever Tonic breaks up this misery-getting malady p'n-manmtly. 
Cures warranted. A box of pills free with every bottle. Pi-ice, ^-l.(JO. 



Valuable Recipes — Puddings and Pi( 



Steam Pudding— One quart flour, one coffee cup chopped raisins 
or currants, one teacup chopped suet, half cup of molasses, half 
cup brown sugar, one teaspoonful soda, two cups sweet milk, a little 
salt. Mix, and steam tJiree hours. Sauce. 



Cabinet PUDDrNG — Boil three-quarters of a pint of cream, and 
mix one-quarter of a pint,"cold, with the well beaten yolks of six eggs 
and a glass of brandy. Pour the boiling cream over this, and stir as 
you pour it till it becomes a custard. Butter a plain mould and line 
it :vith dried cherries and slices of dried apricots or peaches, taste- 
fully arranged in a pattern. Put into the mould lightly four ounces 
of sponge-biscuits and two ounces of macaroons, mixed ; strew an 
ounce of powdered sugar amongst them ; then fill up the mould with 
the custard perfectly cold. Tie up and steam for an hour. Let it 
stand a few minutes ; turn out carefully and serve with wine sauce. 



Cranberry Tart— Take a pint of cranbenies, and put into a 
stew-pan with four ounces of moist sugar, stir them over the fire, 
and skim for twenty minutes. Pour them out to cool ; then put into 
tart dishes, and" cover with paste, or make up in open tarts. 



Cream Pie— Whites of two eggs, one tablespoouful of flour, one 
tablespoon heaping of sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon ; cream suf- 
ficient to fill the dish. This is only enough for one pie. 

Cream Pies— J//-s. J. H. i^.— Take one pint of milk, and the yolks 
of two eggs well beaten and mix them together; add a pinch of salt 
and three tablespoon fuls sifted flour, then sweeten and simmer over 
the fire till thick, stirring well all the time. Pour this into a newly 
baked paste and then spread over the top the well beaten whites of 
two eggs, sweetened and flavored. Bake light brown. This will be 
enough for two pies. 

Lemon Pie.— One lemon, one cup of sugar, two cups of water, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour ; three eggs. The above wall make two pies. 



Lemon Pie— One cup of boiling water, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, one lemon ; place between a rich paste. 

Cracker or Mock Apple Pie— 3/r«. J. H. i?'.— Take six soda 
crackers rolled, soak in two cups of cold water for twenty minutCvS, 
the rind and juice of two lemons, two and a half cups of white sugar, 
mix together and bake in paste. Tliis will make three pies. 

Peach Pie.— Take mellow, juicy peaches, cut in quarters, after 
peeling and taking out the stones. Line a deep plate with paste put 
in a layer of peaches, a thick layer of sugar, a tablespoouful of water, 
and a sprinkle of flour. Cover witli a crust and bake slowly one hour. 

Transparent Jelly Pie- One cupful of butter, one of powdered 
wliite sugar, and four eggs well beaten ; bake the crust, then pour in 
the mixture and put it back in the oven for a few minutes until it 
becomes stiflT. 

Mince Pies.— Take four pounds of boiled meat, one-half pound 
suet, four ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of mace or nutmeg, one 
pint of molasses, one quart of brandy, sugar to make it very sweet. 
To the above add an equal weight (nearly tAvelve pounds) of tart 
apples chopped flne. This will keep for months. Before baking add 
a tablespoouful of cider or vinegar to each pie. 

Ague poison can be completely expelled from the system with Kress' 
Fever Tonic. Chills can be broken up so well by no other remedy. 
A box of pills free with every bottle. Price, §1. 00. 



Pure Wines and Brandies, 

F OR MEDICINAL U SE. 

WM. BRACHMANN, 

125 WALNUT STREET, 
CINCINNATI, OHIO, 

Offers a Well Assorted Stock of 

Cognac Brandy, Jamaica Rum, 

Port, Sherry & Madeira Wines^ 
Native, Ohio & California 

Wines and Brandies, 

Scotch &> Engrlish. Ales & Porters, 

Which he Confidently Recommends for Medicinal use. 



PIANOS. 
M^Lonuoi^s 

AT YEEY LOW PRICES. 

Persons at a distance will receive as good Instruments as 
if present to select for themselves, and fully warranted. 

Pianos, Organs and Melodeons rented so 
tliat tlie rent -will pay for tliem. 

^^"Send for Illustrated Circular, 

D. H. BALDWIN & CO. 

158 West Fourth St. 



Valuable Recipes — C/ earns, Ciisiards 



Mince Pies— Time, twonty-flve to thirty minvites. Puir paste ; 
mince meat. Roll out the pulf paste to the thickness of a (luarter of 
an inch j line some good-siz<i pattv-pans with it, till them with niiiu-o, 
cover with the paste, and cut it close round the edge of the patty-pun. 
Put them in a hrisk oven. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth ; 
brush it over them when they are oaked ; sift a little powdered sugar 
over them ; replace them in the oven for a minute or two to dry tiie 
egg. Berve them on a table napkin, very hot. 

Orange Tart.— Squeeze two oranges and boil the rind tender, aild 
half a teacupful of sugar, the juice and pulp of the fruit and an ounce 
of butter beat to a paste. Line a shalloM' dish with a light putl' crust 
and lay the paste of orange in it. 

Open Apple Tart— Peel and slice some cooking apples, and stew 
them, putting a small cup of water and the same of moist sugar to a 
quart of sliced apples; add half a nutmeg and the peel of a lemon, 
grated ; when they are tender, sot them to cool. Line a shallow tin 
pie-dish with a rich pie pust«, or light pufT paste ; put in the stewed 
apples half an inch deep; roll out some of the paste; Met it slightly 
over with the yolk of an egg, beaten with a little milk, and a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar ; cut it in vei-y narrow strips and lay 
them in crossbars, or diamonds, across the tart; lay another strin 
around the edge ; trim oft' the outside neatly with a sharp knife, and 
bake in a quick oven until the paste loosens from the dish. 



Apple Mince Meat— One pound of cnrrant,s, one pound peeled 
and ciiopped apples, one pound of suet chopped line, one pound of 
moist sugar, quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two, the 
juice of four oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel of one ; 
add of ground mac« and allspice each a spoonful, and a wineglass 
of brandy. Mix all well together, and keep it closely coveredin a 
cool i)lace. 



CREAMS, CUSTARDS, «&c. 

Apple Snow— Boil twelve large apples till tender but not broken, 
drain them on a seive, then put the dry pulps in a lx)wl and beat to a 
froth, beat the whites often eggs, mix with tliem a cup and a half of 
powdered sugar, then beat apples and all together a long time and 
pile on a dish, j'ou must serve this immediately. 

Apple Snow— Put into a pan, without paring, twelve large apples 
with the rind of a lemon, the j nice, and a pint of cold Avater ; set them 
over a slow lire and boil gently till the apples are perfectly soft, but 
not broken; drain them over a sieve, and when cool, put the pulp 
clear of seeds into a bowl, and beat it to a strong froth ; beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a solid froth with ten ounces of sifted sugar ; 
then beat the apples and eggs together till they resemble stiff snow ; 
heap this on a dish as high as possible; put a small green sprig into 
the middle, and serve as soon as possible, that it may not fall. 

CHOCOI.ATE CtJSTARDS— J/r.9. H. T. J/.— Take two ounces chocolate, 
scrape it and put in nearly half a pint of boiling water and set it 
near the Are to dissolve— stirring it occasionally; beat the yolks of 
two and ull of two eggs very light ajiu stir ihem in a pint of cream or 
rich milk and then chocolate and ail together and sv/eeten to taste. 
Put it into small cups and bake about ten minutes ; when cold put 
beaten white of egg and sugar heaped on each. 

Hamilton's Buchu and Dandelion restores the enfeebled powei-s, 
and puts the physical machinery in perfect running order. You 
might receiA e bcneiit from it. ir^ it. Price $1.00. 



VVM. AUTENRIETH, 

71 WEST SIXTH STREET, 



'LYCLY.YATI, OHIO. 

MA>;UFACTUREF|^OF & DEALER IN 



SURGICAL AND DENTAL 

INSTRUMENTS. 



Trasses, 

HJioulder Braces, 
Abdoiuinal Supporters, 
Elastic Bandages, 

" Stockings, 

" Knee Caps, 
Ankles, 
8usp;-nsor.v Badges, 
Mrs. Willis Abdominal Supporters, 
Mrs. Cvrene Smith " 
Mcintosh Uterine " 
Babcock's SiU 'r Uterine Supprt'r 
Leach and Green's " 

Young's Pessaries, 
Zwank's " 

Hoiige's " 

Thomas' " 

Meig's " 

Cutter's " 

Hofl'mau's " 
Blundell'8 
Naegerath's " 
Smith's " 

Disk's " 

Urinals 
Air Cushions, 
Atomizers, 
Artitieial Limbs, 
Skeletons, 
Spinal Apparatus, 
Hip Joint Splint, 
Extension SJioe.s, 
Ankle Braces, 
Club foot shoes, 
Crutclies, 
Saddle Bags, 
Medicine (.'ases. 
Chests. 
Wire C»:xage Splints. 



Codman and Shurtleff's Inhaler, 

Cutter's " 

Hunter's " 

Perfume Atomizei-s, 

Nasal Douches, 

Laryngoscopes, 

Opthalmascopes, 

Loupes, 

^Microscopes, 

Glass Specula, 

Metal " 

H'd Rubber " 

Sole Agent of the Celebrated 

Galvano-Faradic Manuf ring Co. 

of New York. 

Kidder's Batteries, 

Gaitre's Pocket " 

Foster's *' 

Davis & Kidder's Electro-Magnetic 

Ahls Porous Felt Splints, 

Day's Unrivaled •' 

Catheters, Bougies, 

Russian Felt for Dressings, 

Hypodermic Syringes, 

Molsworth " 

Anatomical " 

Davidson's *' 

Stomach Pumps, 

Pneumatic Aspirators. 

Intra Uterine Medicator, 

Thermom eters, 

Wine and Lye Testers. 

Scales, 

Gru.daated Measures, 



Valuable Recipes — Creams, Custanh, &-'e. 

Jeli.y Custards— J/r.?. -4.^;.P.— One teacupful of currant jelly, one 
cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs. Cream butter and sugar, 
add jelly, then eggs ; beat hard. Bake in a cruist ; this ^vill make 
three pies. 

Fruit Cr-eam— Take half an ounce of isinglass, dissolve in a little 
water, tiien put one pint of good cream, sweetened to tlie taste; boil i 
it ; when nearly cold, lay some aj^ricot or raspberry jam on the bottom 
of a glass disii, and pour it over. This is most excellent. 

Vanilla Custards.— Boil for a quarter of an hour, half a pod of 
vanilla, cut in pieces, in a pint of cream, with four ounces of sugar; 
then strain through a muslin. Beat the yolks of six eggs very well, 
and pour the milk over them into a bowl,— placing the bowl over a 
pan of boiling water, and stirring it rapidly till it tliickens. Let it 
uool gradually, stirring it continually. 



Lemon Custard— Beat yolks of eight eggs for half an hour to froth," 
and strain them ; pour over then a pint of boiling water and the outer 
rind of two lemons, grated. Make the juice of the two lemons into a 
syrup, with three ounces of sugar, and stir into the custard. Then 
set it over the tire, adding to it a glass of Madeira and half a glass 
of brandy, and stir till it thickens. Pour it out, and stir till cold, then 
serve in cups. 



Apple Cream— Time, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 
One pound of apple pulp, half an ounce of powdered sugar, or to taste, 

Pulp boiled apples till you have a pound weight of them ; add to 
them half a pint of cream, the lemon-peel grated, and two spoonfuls 
of brandy. \Vhisk the whole till it is a fine white cream, and leave 
a white froth at the top. Sweeten it to taste before whisking it. The 
quantity of sugar required must depend on the aoidity or sweetness of 
the apple pulp. 

Chocolate Cream— Time, twenty minutes. One bar of chocolate, 
one pint and a half of cream, yolks of five eggs, one tablespoonful 
and a half of good moist sugar. 

Break a bar of chocolate into small pieces, and pour over them a 
pint and a half of cream, let it remain until it is dissolved, and then 
boil it slowly for ten minutes. Well beat the yolks of five eggs with 
a spoonful and a half of good moist sugar, mix it with the cream, and 
^our it into cups. Stand them in a stewpan of boiling water, which 
must only cover half-way to the edge of the cup, and let them re- 
main simmering twenty minutes with the cover of the stewpan kept 
on. When done, place them in a very cold place. Milk may be used 
instead of cream if a less expensive cream is required. 



Lemon Cream— One pint of water, peel of three large lemons, juice 
of four lemons, six ounces of fine loaf sugar, whites of six eggs. 

Pare into a pint of water the peel of three lai-ge lemons, let it stand 
four or five hours, then take them out and put to the v.ater the juice 
of four. lemons and six ounces of fine loaf sugar. Beat the whites of 
six eggs and mix it all together strain it through a lawn sieve, set it 
over slow fire, stir it one way until as thick as a good cream, then take 
it off the fire and stir it until cold and put it into a glass dish. Sugar 
of lenaon may be used instead of the fruit. 

Orange cream may be made in the same way, adding the yolks of 
three eggs. 



The virtues of Buchu and Dandelion are combined and the ofTicien- 
y of both increr*-sed in Hamilton's preparation. It is a success as a 
liuretic. In-sist on getting Ilamiltou's Buchu and Dandelion. 



Bromo-Chloralum 



As a Houseliold Article 

IT HAS NO EQUAL, HAVING NO ODOR CAN BE 
USED IN THE PARLOR, BED ROOM, LIBRA- 
RY, &c., AND HAVING NO POISONOUS 
QUALITIES IS SAFE IN THE HANDS 
OF SERVANTS. 



Sick Room, 
Closets, 
Store Rooms, 
Meat Safes, 
Refrigerators. 
Kitcliens, 
Pantries, 
Cellars, 
Milk Cans, 
Babies Feed- 
ing Bottles, 




Bums, 
Scalds, 
Chilblains, 
Toothacke, 
Fcetid Feet, 
Arm-pits, 
£rysipelas, 
Small-Pox, 
Dipktkeria, 
Mosquito 
Bites. 



BASKET with SPONGE 

Moistened with 

Eromo-Chloralum. 



Suspended in the Sleeping Room, the air will be found in 

the morning as free from odor as if the windows 

had been open all night. 

N. B. Pat a amall saucer in Uie bottom of the basket. 



Valuable Recipes — Biscuits, Bread and Cakes. 

Brown Bread.— One quart of Indian meal, one quart of rye or 
Graham meal, one quart of water, one cup of yeast, three-fourths 
of a cup of molasses, salt ; let It rise all night ; add in the morning 
half teaspoonful of saleratus, steam four hours. 

Steamed Brown Bread— Jtfr«. Carman— One quart of meal, one 
quart Graham flour, one quart of water, one cup of yeast, three 
quarters of a cup full of molasses, and salt. Let it rise all night, in the 
morning add a half teaspoonful of soda. Steam four houi-s, 

Graham Gems— Try some to-morrow. Make your preparations 
to-night by stirring together one pint of warm water, one-fourth pint 
baker's, or hop yeast, a small tablespoonful sugar, the same of butter, 
a pinch of salt, and wheat-meal enough to make still" as you can stir 
it with a spoon. It will be like a puffin the morning. Do not stir it, 
but take out a spoonful at a time into your gem-cups until each cup 
is two-thirds full. Put them in the oven as soon as the fire is made ; as 
the oven heats they will be getting lighter, and by the time the coffee 
and steak are ready, they will be baked. 

Corn Bread— Mr*. B. P. T.—Owg pint of cold boiled rice, one pint 
of corn meal, one pint of milk, salt, throe eggs, one tablespoonful of 
lard, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake in a deep pan. 

Corn-Meal Rusk.— Take six cupfuls of corn-meal, four of wheat 
flour, two of molasses, and one teaspoonful of saleratus ; mix the 
whole together and knead it into dough ; make two cakes ; bake three 
quarters of an hour. 

Corn-Meal Breakfast Cake.— For two baking tins, take one 
and half pints of coarsely ground corn meal. Add water nearly 
boiling, but not quite enough to wet all the corn meal : add cold 
water, a little at a timCj stirring thoroughly between whiles, until 
you have it so thin that it has a tendency to settle as you pour it into 
your pie tins. It should not be more than half an inch deep in the 
tins, and it should bake quickly in a hot oven. 

Corn-Meal, Fritters.— Take two and a half cups of sour milk, 
one and a half cups of cream, tliree egK*^, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a 
heaping teaspoonful of soda. Mix with one-third flour, and two- 
thirds corn-meal thick enough to just drop from a spoon. Drop by 
the spoonful into hot lai'd. Require longer time to fry than doughnuts'. 

Corn Cake— One quart of milk or water, three tjxblespoonfuls of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls Collins' Pariigon Baking Powder. 

Muffins— One quart sweet milk, four or five eggs, piece butter 
size of hens egg, flour enough to make a thin batter, two teaspoonfuls 
C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder. 

Pop-OvERS.— Four eggs, four cups of flour, four cups of milk, a 
small piece of melted butter, and a little salt. The«e may be baked in 
gem-tins or small cups, which should be previously heated. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

Paragon Griddle Cakes— Take one quart flour, half pint corn 
meal, salt to the taste, water enough to niake a batter, three tea- 
spoonfuls of C. H. Collins' Paragon Baking Powder ; this makes a 
delicious griddle cake withovit the use ol eggs. 

Nervous force of the system is used up quicker by Ague than by 
any other ailment. Kress' Fever Tonic breaks it up every time. 
Cures warranted. A box of pills free with every bottle. Price $1.00. v 



J. GRAY & CO;S 

Transmutive Fluid, 



—OR — 



HAIR DYE. 

Is the most reliable preparation of the hind ever 
offered. 

B^^OAUTIOISr'^^a 

In consequence of the superior nnerit and increasing popularity 
of Gray's " Transmutive Fluid, or Liquid Hair Dye," some un- 
principled and dishonest parties have undertaken to counterfeit the 
genuine article, and palm off upon the public a worthless imita- 
tion. We would caution the public and all dealers, that in future 
the only genuine J. Gray & Co.'s " Transmutive Fluid, or Liquid 
Hair Dye" will have a fine lithographed wrapper, covering the four 
sides and top of the box. All infringements and illegal use of our 
trade-mark and rights will be prosecuted to the fullest extent. 

LORD, SMITH & CO., 

PROPRIETORS, 

86 "WalDash. Aveixoie, Chicago, Ills. 



SILVER MEDAL AWARDED TO 
BARRETT'S 

HAIR RESTORATIVE 

In September, 1866, over all Competitors, 

This Preparation surpasses all others of its class as a Hair Re- 

newer. 

It is thorough in its action upon Gray Or Faded Hair and its 

effect permanent. 
It produces but One Diatinct Shade, while others leave the hair 

in many varied colors. 
It Promotes Growth when others fail to re-produce a single hair. 
It does not Crisp or Dry the hair, but leaves it moist and glossy. 
Ladies tind it superior to any other as a Toilet Dressing. 
The ingredients used in this Preparation are the very best that can 

be found, and are as harmless as water, 

LORD, SMITH & CO., Proprietors, 

8G TValiasht ^.venrie, Cliicatso. 



Valuable Recipes— Biscuit?, Bread and Cakes. 



V^r.iS\^ rt';Sragt,^,''th- moulSlMo"mscaul, and wh.u light 
bake them iu a moderate oven. 

^rp°lat\!;?;^1n'youf paJSr'^o^^ilTna set them al-ay again to r.se. 

Bake carefully. 

n^ „ T w V Tn n nuart of flour add a little salt ; 

ffi'e«L''m^i|;ra,°pMa«^ 

and let It remain ";;eruif'\'.Y,„„fAs to remain till morning, then 
throwing in a pmch ol ^a'J.'^'f.YJ mixture milk-warm and mix In 
pour hot water enough to make the mixtiue miix w u j ,._tnead 



well, allow to raise aud bake well 
prepared. 



WAFFr,F.-^Onequart flour, two t«a.po^„futeo, 
^^^SS:^V^^ '^^^'^ rj^g'h "toi^ake a sott 



butter. 



ill a hot oveu. 

Sloves aud cinnamon is very nice worked in \Mth .salt, &c. 

S^i.T RISING BKKAD.-One teaspoonful fresh milk, ^^^ pinch salt 

e^;L-i'^/',ii m"krat,i«M;>;iy; f^tJrrkisT^^^^^^^^ 

into four loaves ; let it raise again before bakmg. 

secures health. Take uo substitute lor it. Pnce 81.00. j 



Artificial Limbs 

Satiefaetioai given or no sale. 




Tne Anatomical Leg, with lateral or natural Ankle-motion 
embraces all other known improvements, making it the best for com- 
fort usefulness and durability, manufactured, and the only le<T that 

IS guaranteed free of charge for five years. \egs 

without lateral motion furnished at lowest rates. In all cases where 
the pati«nt comes to the office to be fitted and fully test the leg- 
entire satisfaction is given before any payment is required. 

Arms of the best quality for amputation above and below the 
Elbow, furnished on terms as reasonable as anywhere in the country. 

The Exposition Prise Medal, 

And the Highest Award given by various State Fairs, have been 
awarded and are on exhibition. 

For general infomiation, Pamphlets, Testimonials or Blanks for 
measurement, address, 

CHAS. M. EVANS, 

No. 152 West Fourth Street, 
CINCINNATI. 

And No, 76 Fourth .Street, 

LOITISVILLE. 



Valuable Recipes — Pickles, Salads, ^'c. 



HAMBUBa Beefsteak.— -If i*;.s Clara Schmiti.—T?i)s.e: & large Porter- 
house steak, cut out all the bones and sinew, chop tlie meat tine, 
season it well with pepper, salt, cloves and onions. Form into cakes 
about the size and form of a biscuit, boil it in butter over a slow fixe 
until lightly brown, then add half a cup of water and stew until done; 
serve at once — A splendid dish. 

Dish for Breakfast— Take half dozen, or as many as necessary, 
good cooking apples, cut them in slices of about a quarter of an inch 
thick, have ready a pan of frevsh, hot lard. Drop the slices in and fry 
brown. A little hot sugar sprinkled over improves them. Serve hot. 



PICKLES, SALADS, &:c. 

Brine for Pickling Pork.— Persons who have tested the follow- 
ing, commend it as giving the best pickled pork that they have ever 
eaten : eight pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of 
soda, two pounds of brown sugar, to each one hundred pounds of pork 
or hams. The meat must be kept carefully under the brine. If this 
is done, the above will be found to be salt enough for keeping the 
meat well. 

Pickle for Beef, Pork, Tongues or Dried Beef.— Mix in four 
gallons of water a pound and a half of sugar or molasses, and two 
ounces of saltpetre. (If it is to last a month or two pi\t in six pounds 
of salt; if over summer use nine pounds of salt.) Boil all together 
gently, skim and let it cool. Put the meat in the vessel in which it is 
to stand, pour the pickle upon the meat until it is covered. Keep the 
meat doM n under the pickle with a stone. Use the above proportions 
for a larger quantity, if required. 

Chow-Chow.— Take a quarter of a peck of green tomatoes, the 
same quantity each of pickling beans and white onions; one dozen 
each of cucumbers and green peppers, one head of cabbage. Season 
to the taste M'ith mustard, celery seed and salt. Pour over these the 
best cider vinegar, sufficient to cover. Boil slowly for two hours, 
continually stirring, and add, while hot, two tablespoonfuls of the 
finest salad oil. 

Corned Beef— Make the brine of salt and cold water, strong 
enough to bear an egg, (or until an egg will tioat on the surface.) Tlie 
best pieces for corning, are the brisket, plate piece, and round, the 
rump is also good ; before putting the beef in brine, rub it well with 
salt, and let it lay for twelve hours, then take one ounce of saltpetre 
and one pound of brown sugar, with it rub the pieces of beef. 

Pickled Tomatoes.— Slice green tomatoes, and boil in weak brine 
until they are tender; dissolve one pound of brown sugar in one 
quart of vinegar ; scald and pour on the tomatoes. Spice to suit taste. 

Spiced Peaches— JVfr^. Miller— Medin^n size cling stone peaches 
are the best; Do not pare them but scald slightly in weak boiling lye, 
put immediately into a tub of cold water and rub off the fur with a 
coarse towel or scrape with a knife without breaking the skin. To 
six pounds fruit allow three pounds sugar, one pint of vinegar, one 
quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a half ounce each of mace and 
cinnamon. Scald the fruit two mornings with the vinegar and sugar 
and the third morning boil all together one minute. 

A cure and preventive of disease— such is Hamilton's Buchu and 
Dandelion. It opens up the outlets of tlie system, and relieves en- 
gorgement. Take no substitute for it. Price $1.00. 



T H E 



New Disinfectant 



^r' 




WH0W:© 




^^§K-P0§SON^y g -^^ 




Safine Antiseptic, Alterative &. Styptic. 

^RRESTSANDpi tvEKTs Put refaction AND Contagion. 

UlS^d! asa^rar^lem DMilhori.i.Soro Throat, Catarrh <z«/f 
Foetid Breatl\./rj^« irash cmclDisin/ecta/it in SraallPox.Cancers, 
TIlcers.TyplioidlWer and afl CoiUai/iou:; diseases., Toremove 
bad Odors or Gases c//*^ Disinfect SickRooui s, suspend c/oths 
safura^edivi/JiU ddiiied., .2^^(»^</<?/vj<?Wat£rCJosets,Siii£s 
J^Lclieus, Cellars i>:c.,andw]ierp rwrbad ornoxious odors 
shoitld be removed SEE general directions. 

PnEI^AREDONLYBY 

FewLebanQ.n.N.X^^76WlljlJiiaiinStr-@ifc 



'm))y 



Used in Hotels, Restaurants, Public Schools, Hospitals, Insane Asy- 
lums, Dispensaries, Jails, Prisons, Poor Houses, on Ships, Steam Boats 
and in Tenement Houses, Markets, for Water Closets, Urinals, Sinks, 
Sewers, Cesspools, &c. 

A specific in all Contagious, and Pestilential Diseases, as Cholera, 
Typhoid Fever, Ship Fever, Small Pox, Scarlet Fever, Measles, Dis- 
eases of Animals, &c. 



Valuable Recipes — Pickles, Salads, dj^c. 

Musk-Melon Pickles.— Take them when just ripe; pare and 
slice about an inch and a half thick; pnt them in alum-water ; let 
them stand one night. Take out and drain well. Allow three pounds 
of sugar to three pints of good vinegar; boil well and skim ; pour over 
the melons, drain oflf the sirup, heat and pour back nine mornings ; 
the last time add cinnamon and cloves to suit the taste. Boil the 
sii'up down just enough to cover the pickles. 

To Keep Tomatoes— Take fine ripe tomatoes, and wipe them dry, 
taking care not to break the skin. Put them into a stone jar with 
cold vinegar, adding a small thin muslin bag filled with mace, whole 
cloves and whole peppers. Then cork the jar tightly with a cork 
that has been dipped in melted rosin, and put it away in a dry place. 
Tomatoes pickled in this manner keep pefectly well, and retain their 
color. For this purpose use the small round button tomatoes, 

French Mustard— As prepared by Commodore Collins, U.S. Nary 
Boil together one quart good vinegar, one and a half tablespoonful 
salad oil, half teaspoonful salt, two or three cloves of garlic, for ten 
or fifteen minutes, strain and pour over one pound of ground mustard, 
while hot, and beat it until perfectly smooth and free from lumps, 
cover it up in glass vessel, it will keep for years and improve with age. 

To Mix Mustard.— Mustard should be mixed with water thafhas 
been boiled and allowed to cool ; hot water destroys its essential pro- 
perties, and raw cold water might cause it to ferment. Put the 
mustard in a cup, with a small pinch of salt, and mix with it very 
gradually sufficient boiled water to make it drop from the spoon 
without being watery. Stir and mix well, and rub the lumps well 
down with the back of a spoon, as mustard properly mixed should be 
perfectly free from these. The mustard-pot should not be more than 
half full, or rather less, if it will not be used for a day or two, as the 
mustard is so much better when fresh made. 



Horseradish.— It may not be generally known that if leaves or 
litter be placed on the tops of horseradish crowns two feet or so thick, 
the plants grow through them in the course of the summer, making 
small white roots the thickness of one's finger, which are as tender as 
spring radishes, and much to be preferred to the tough, stringy stuff 
usually supplied with our roast beef. 

Horseradish Sauce for Roast Beef.— The horseradish must Tbe 
well washed, brushed and scraped ; grate two tablespoonfuls and put 
into the tureen with a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of mustard 
in powder, and two tablespoonfuls of cream; when these are well 
mixed, add gradually four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

Horseradish Vinegar.— Put into a jar four ounces of grated 
horseradis, a teaspoonful of Cayenne, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
and one tablespoonful of mustard ; pour over them a quart of boiling 
vinegar, and set the covered jar by the fire for a fortnight ; then boil 
up,the vinegar, let it cool, strain through a jelly-bag, and bottle. It is 
an excellent relish for salads, cold meats, etc. 

To Make Mustard.— Mustard is considered to be one of the most 
wholesome of condiments. It is always best to prepare it in small 
quantities, and send it up quite fresh. It should be smoothly blended 
with milk or cream, to which a small portion of salt may be added, 
till reduced to the proper consistence. If required piquant, vinegar 
or horseradish vinegar may be substituted for the milk. 



The only Antidote for Chills and Fever is Kress Fever Tonic. The 
proprietors warrant a cure or refund the money. A box of pills free 
with every bottle. Price $1.00. 



Our Diamond Gin is of stuaranteed purity, and is distilled directly 
from the Italian Juniper Berry after the methods prescribed by the 
most scientihc and experienced EuropesAi Distillers'; we feel safe there- 
tore in warranting It to contain all the Medicinal virtues that are 
claimed for any imported Gin, and that it is of the same specific grav- 
ity with them. Its strength and purity make it much more valu-able 
than the s^purious articles imposed upon the public as imitations of it 
but winch really contain less than one half the strength of th( 



Diamond Gin. 



MADDUX, HOBART & CO. 

107, 109, in and 113 Pearl St., E. of Broadway, 

ci]srciJsr?^ATi. 

Send all orders to W. C. Hamilton er* Co. 



B^^ESTABLISHED 1845^a 



QUEEflClTYVARpcO, 

MANUFACTURE ALL KINDS OF 

VA RNISH ES. 

ig^^QUOTATIONS FURNISHED UPON APPLICATION. ORDERS 
SOLICITED. 



124 West Second Street, 

CINCINNATr, OHIO 



Valuable Recipes — Vinegar, Wine, ^c. 

Tomato Catsup— Take ripe tomatoes and scald thena just suf- 
ficient to allow you to take otithe skin ; then let them stand lor a day 
covered with salt; strain theiu thoroughly to remove the seeds; then 
add to every two quarts three ounces of cloves, two of black pepper, 
two nutmegs, and a very little Cayenne pepper, with a little salt; boil 
the liquor for half an hour, and ihen let it cool and settle ; add a pint 
of the best cider vinegar, after which bottle it, corking and sealing it 
tightly. Keep it always in a cool place. 

Another Way.— Take one bushel of tomatoes and boil them 
until they are soft; squeeze them through a fine wire seive, and add 
half a gallon of vinegar, a pint and a half of salt, two ounces of cloves, 
quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of Cayenne pepper, three 
teaspoonfuls of black pepper, five heads of garlic, skinned and separ- 
ated. Mix together, and boil about three hours, or until reduced to 
about one-half; then bottle, M^lthout straining. 



Good Vinegar— To every gallon of wat*r,add one pound of brown 
sugar, one gill of yeast, mix the sugar and water together, and boil 
and skim well; then let it cool and add one gill of whisky and a piece of 
brown paper. Keep in warm place till sour. 

To Make Vineoar— Boil slowly, for one hour, three pounds of 
very coarse brown sugar in three gallons of water, work it with a little 
yeast, the same as you would beer ; then put it into a cask, and ex- 
pose it to the sun, paste a piece of brown paper over the bung-hole, 
it will soon become tine vinegar, fit for pickling or any other purpose. 

To Make Good Vinegar— One pint of strained honey, and two 
gallons of soft water. Let it stand in a moderately warm place. In 
three weeks it will be excellent vinegar. 

To Keep Cider Sweet— To every thirty gallons of cider add half a 
pound of unground mustard seed, either enclosed in a small cloth bag 
or loose. Another— To every forty gallons of cider add one pound of 
sulphite of lime. Add in both cases, the articles when the cider is 
worked to suit the taste. 



Receipt For Cttkr.\nt Wine.— Currants four pounds ; sugar three 
pounds ; water one gallon. Pla<;e the currants, steins and ail, in a tub 
and mash them well ; add the water ; set in a cool place, and stir 
occasionally ; continue the stirring for three days ; then drain the li- 
quor through a sieve, squeeze the pulp in a cloth, add the sugar, (stir- 
ring until it is dissolved,) and put into a barrel or cask, which should 
stand in a dry cool cellar. Wlien fermentation is over, bung up tight 
and leave all winter. Rack off in spring before second fermentation, 
and bottle after second fermentation. 



Blackberry Wine.— The following is said to be an excellent re- 
ceipt for the nianufacture of superior wine from blackberries ; Meas- 
ure your berries and bruise them, to every gallon add one quart of 
boiling water. Let the mixture stand twenty-four hoiu's, stirring 
occasionally, then strain off the liquor into a cask, to every gallon 
add two pounds of sugar ; cork tight, and let stand till following Octo- 
ber, and you will have wine ready for use, without any further strain- 
ing or boiling, that will make lips smack as they never smacked 
under similar influence before. 

If you have pain in the region of the kidneys, get a bottle of 
Hamilton's Buchu and Dandelion. Give it a fair trial. It has cured 
hundreds, and will relieve you. Price $1.00. 



DR. JOHN BULI,'S 

SARSAPARILL.A. 



DR. JOHN BULL'S 

WORM DESTROYERS. 



DR. JOHN BULL'S 

SMITH'S TOIVIC SYRUP. 



In selling qualities, Second to none. For curing 
sick people, believed by thousands to be the very best 
articles you can get. 

Suppose you try a Bottle or Box. 

You will get more than your money back. 

You may get well and hearty again. 

MANUFACTURED AT 

BULL'S LABORATORY, 

LOUISVILLE, KY. 



Valuable Recif>e5 — Cements attd Frnit Wax. 



An Excellent Apple Jelly.— Cut two pounds of sweet apples 
into quarters, without peeling, throwing them into cold water as you 
cut tlieni. Then put them into a preserving-pan, with a quart of fresh 
cold water, and boil till they become a pulp, adding as the apples boil, 
one pound of loaf sugar, and a little extract of vanilla. Then run it 
tlirough a jelly bag; it must stand some hours to allow it to pass 
through completely. It must then be simmered over the fire twenty 
minutes, to jelly, and poured into the mould. 

Red Currant Jelly.— This most indispensable article of the 
store-room rarely fails to be successfully made by any tolerably care- 
ful cook, the process is so simple. Put the fruit, quite ripe, over the 
ftre in an enameled pan, and stir them till the juice begins to flow 
freely, then strain it tlirougli a jelly-bag, and return the juice to the 
pan; boil it for twelve or fifteen minutes, and add fine loaf sugar, one 
pound toeaclipint of juice; stir it till dissolved and five minutes longer 
then pour out the jelly into small pots or glasses. 

Strawberry or Raspberry Jelly .—Get fine-colored, fresh, ripe 
fruit, and put over the fire at a sufficient distance for the Juice to flow 
slowly; but do not allow it to run longer than it is perfectly clear, 
probably twenty minutes; then run it through a jelly-bag without 
pressing. If the juice is at all turbid, strain it again through muslin 
into the pan, and simmer it a quarter of an hour; then add one pound 
of fine sugar to each pint of the Juice, and boil it ten minutes longer. 

Strawberries, Preserved Whole.— Take equal weights of 
strawberries and loaf sugar, put the sugar into a pan with merely 
sufficient water to dissolve it, and let it boil till the surface is covered 
with small bubbles ; this will probably be in about twenty minutes ; 
then put in the fruit, with one pint of red currant juice to each 
pound of strawberries, which improves the color ; allow it to boil five 
minutes, then put into small jars. It is not necessary Xo use more 
sugar for the currant-juice, the strawberries being of themselves so 
sweet. Red currants or raspberries, with the addition of white cur- 
rant-juice, black currant, apricot, or other jams, may be made in this 
way. The advantage over the old process is, that the quantity of jam 
is greater, the color finer, and the flavor of the fruit perfectly retained. 

Peach Marmalade.— Pare, divide and stone the fruit, and boil 
for half an hour, stirring it continually ; then add three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of the fruit, and one-fourth of the 
kernels blanched, and boil up for a quarter of an hour ; the m^arma- 
lade will then be ready for the pots. 



CEMENTS AISTD FUXJIT ^WAX. 

Cement for Sealing up Fruit.— Take rosin and brick dust, a 
sufficient quantity; after melting the one stir in the other. Be careful 
and not put in too much rosin, or the cement will not hold, and see 
that the brick dust is finely powdered. 

Transparent Cement.— A very strong, transparent cement, ap- 
plicable to wood, porcelain, glass, stone, etc., may be made by rubbing 
togetlier in a mortar two parts of nitrate of lime, twenty-five parts of 
water, and twenty parts of powdered gum arable. The surfaces to be 
united are to be painted with the cement, and bound together until 
completely dry. 

Engorgement produces inflammation. Hamilton's Buchu and 
Dandelion relieves engorgement, bj* its action on the Kidneys and 
Liver. Price one dollar, and sure to help you. 



A CARD. 



THE CI\CIN1(ATI I|ELIGIOUS WEEKLIES. 

The attention of advertisers is called to the Religious Weeklies 
published in Cincinnati, as named below. These papers are the 
oldest established in the West, and the leading joui-nals in their, 
respective denominations. In liberality of spirit, ability and charac- 
ter of their contributors, typographical appearance, and general 
journalistic completeness, they can fully claim a place among the best 
religious papers of the country. 

Two of them are the only organs of the Church they represent in 
the United States ; three the only ones in the West, and all are sent 
weeiily to almost every Post-Office in the Central West. 

Considering their bona fide circulation, these papers token together 
form the cheapest, and, at tiie same time, the best advertising 
mediums in the West. 

EDWIN ALDEN'S 

cmciNiTi [i[[icis mm 

HAVING A WEEKLY 

CIRCULATION OF 80,000. 

Advertising Kates: 

Per line, each in- Busi- 

sertion. ness 

Single. 3 mos. 6 mos. Items. 
HERALD AND PRESBYTER, 

Presbyterian. Established 1840.... 20 cts. 15 cts. 12>'^ cts. 40 cts. 
CHRISTIAN STANDARD, 

Christian. Established ISG5 20 " 15 " 12^.;^ " 40 " 

STAR IN THE WEST, 

Universalist- Established 1827.... 15 " 12 '* 10 " 30 " 
AMERICAN CHRISTIAN REVIEW, 

Disciple. Estabhshed 18.38 15 " 12 " 10 " 30 " 

RELIGIOUS TELESCOPE, 

United Brethren. Establsd 1825... 20 " 15 " 10 " 25 " 
JOURNAL AND MESSENGER, 

Baptist. E.stablished 1831 15 " 10 •' 8 " 20 '♦ 

CHRISTIAN WORLD, 

Reformed. Established IRI.S 10 " 8 " 6 " 20 " 

HERALD OF GOSPEL LIBERTY, 

Independent. Established 1808.... 10 " 8 " 6 " lo " 

[AGATE MEASUREMENT.] 

Having Ihe entire managevient of the advertising of all ihe-^e papeis, I 
have, for the convenience of advertisers, prepared the following : 
Advertising Bates for the Entire List. 

SI 00 per line, each insertion. 

Thirteen times. - - 80 " " " 

Six months, or longer, - (W " " " 

Business Items, - - 1 "5 " " *' 

Address all orders for any one, or oJl of the above papers, to 

EDWIN ALDEN, 178 Elm St., Cincinnati. 



Valuable Recipes— Cements and Fruit Wax. 



wno"^ ^r-?;? CEMENT.-The follovving has been tested for cementing 
Sa^e/ials^' B?st S nSS ^^^^f' ^"^^ ^^"^^^^ ^^^ kinds of ho^ShoM 

use at once ; it will be solid when cold, but S easily warmed un the 
o? bu'rSnl^f,^- bottS" "^' '""'^ ""^ ^^^^^ warrniug^TfieTelsSLS? 

i«iT,'!^i?o^^^^^ Cement for Glass and Poecel\iv -Two oarts of 

S^S?id nf?-^.'n''H''''lS^'^ "^ swollen; the wS^r^fs Uien 

poaied oft and the isinglass is dissolved in alcohol bv the aid of h^ot 

T,„.S':Y^ WHICH WILI. UNITE POMSHED STEEL.-The followins !•! a 
Turkish recipe lor a cement used to fasten diamond" and oThe? ni-e 
S?oi^ 'iv mti',?r,"''''"'t'<^ surfaces, and which is sa d to be Sipabiro? 

|ak;ii!?a'ss?:°iir^''si-ii4^&viX';m\4^ 

ruDDea until dissolvea. Then mix the whole with heat "K-p^i^r. iU^ 
vi^al^clasely stopped. When it i^ to be used^set the vL ?n'goilin| 

.^.w^^'*^^?^^'^ ^^^^'-'^"^•--'^ ^^"^^nt, said to be capable of use whero 
resistance to the action of both water and heat is required , i ?omnS 
by naixing ordinary glycerine with dry litharge, s^oai to con^S t^iTp « 
in^'nl '.n^tf.'^- K"^^ "^"^"^ th^ joints of steam 0?pes a^d oS?r simila? 
applications, this preparation i s said to be very satisfactory! 

Grafting WAx-The following recipe is from a nractica! nnr 
seryman of large experience : Rosing six pounds ;b?esw?roneT>oSnd 
tallow one pound ; melt and work uAtil cold. This is to be'us^d^arm 
when working in the house. For out-door work use one Sint «^ li^' 

?wonon.\?.fir" ^-^ ^^^ ^'i^^?^^ i^^h« ^o^TJiVmulaTorTkeoneto 
«nH S^n^ 1^*^^ '^T^^'^X ^^- ^^^^ <^ one pound more beeswax and on? 
Splgd b^ha^nS!" °' """""'^ ""'' ' '^ ^" '""''"'^^ "^^^^ info'a ^JssTanl 

wn^o^^"^'^^^'^^.:~'^^^^ o^^^ pound of rosin, half a pound of bees- 
wax, and quarter of a pound tallow or lard, and melt them togethln 

T^iiiS^^^^^^'-^^'^ pATEupiLLARS.-An excellent remedy against cater- 

p Se'oTSotals/am'' 1hp?nf *i^*i^? ^^^k^ P'^^'^ ^^ ^^^ hunf i-ed) of sSl- 
c/oVww. v: P<^ta!s8ium, the infested tree being sprinkled with fhi«« snh. 

ruccessfuU^^pS'nn^i^i '^^'^^^ h^^^d-syringe.^ This method has been 
buccessiuilj used on a large scale in Southern France. 



Valuable Recipes-Laundry and Laundress. 



Uiickuess of one inch. «4Ucu paitb of salt and sugar, to the 

^^^"P^^^^^ Of a pound Of 

together, and add one ounce to ^x^vk ^^u^^A J^^ }}'''^^ ingredient* 
from the churn, sprinklin- it and Sn?t ,?i\-^-^''\"''''.^^ ^^u take it 
adding salt alone ""^''"^ ^^ ^^^ Horkuigit just as is usual when 

thrJ^SKSe''s?fv7t7s'S.Slt^efe -"-d' ^et it run 

it gently in an earthen iSSet skim nffA^f/^'^'^'^'^^?-^ of ^^'^x; then boil 

top, and cool it in jars/Af&^c^'i2r?,T^ th£«''?- ^v^}""^ ^^^^^rs on the 
in a cool cellar. covering these tightly, set them away 

foui\S?Pal"?JcV§e"e^r^ftr^,^^^^ 

war'S?o^eTcfo^^t^^tXkl'lfc'\^^S^^ 

ges ot moths. ' ' ^^^ ^ positive preventive of the rava- 

or^fS^o^^Sl^l-^^S^^Jit^'i^^ hot coals 

in your bed-rooms and'parlok^ and you effect i?«^^^ h""^'^? ^"^ar 

every mosquito for the night. effectually banish or destroy 

the?srfirme?^^'=^^^''^^^-^'^i^g codfish in hard water makes 

^ J^^^^^ ^^\ ^^^^ win get ink out. ooaras. 

MAn^H^iL^eTS^ ?uiVftrIn1r ^ "^^^^^• 

trJ?i?Samp1vS7^irtFe'/^fiK^^^^^^^ to 

crust with a piece of paper o? acl(?h^ ^rh^ S"^*^^^ or wipe off the black 

in shape, and burn exaSUyTn the center of th^^^ ^^vf.^ ^^ P^^^'^t 

halfTto?md1 £.Z'SieToSSda\te7's?^^^^.^^«.«««--^la^ed lime 
it settle, and strain. Pound, water, six quarts. Boil two hours, let 

themi^^rpStt2Sp?JbSn?^.^^^^^ "^7^ ^'^^ SHRiNK.-Put 
the firsttime of w^fihing? ""^ water on, letting them lie tiU cold, 

half^fhywaTe^to'^'^ShTr'^hS^^ff.? -'"'^ ^ ^^^' ^oil and take 




forces and 
or. 



BROOKINS' 

kmm hm d Gatils Fowisrs, 

Are the best Powders in the market for the treatment of 
the various diseases to which HORSES and CATTLE 
are liable, such as 

Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Distemper, 
Hidebound, Surfeit, Yellow Water, 
liung Fever, Founder, Couglis, 
Colds, Rheumatism, Rough- 
ness of Hair, &ic. 
FOR HORSES that are recovering from the EPIZOO- 
TIC there is nothing better. 
FOR CATTLE they will be found invaluable in restoring 
to health when debilitated, in loosening the hide, im- 
proving the appetite, cleansing the blood, and causing 
a rapid deposit of fat. 
FOR MILCH COWS, They keep them in a sleek and 
healthy condition, increasing the secretion of milk, and 
improving its quality, and imparting a richness to cream 
that cannot be attained without their use. 
FOR HOGS, farmers will find these Powders exceedingly 
valuable in preventing HOG CHOLERA, THUMPS, 
MANGE, and other diseases that this valuable animal 
is subject to. 
FOR POULTRY they stand unrivalled for the cure of 
CHICKEN CHOLERA. 

No intelligent owner of stock should be without 

mmw mmm house m cmis mmi 

They purify the blood, and give tone and strength to the diges- 
tive organs, thus eradicating the root of all diseases. 
PREPARED BY 

J. p. BROOKINS & SON, 

E^TOI^, OHIO. 



Price 25c., or 5 Packages for $1.00, 



Valuable Recipes— Games 



Id A;?iuse?nents. 



G-AMES &. AMUSEMETsTTS, 

Get half a dozen sheets of card boar-l and cnf thpm ir,fr^ o 
eating it, no«- take from tlie "t"ckantlfe letters In h,'p w"'","""" 

an.°'SL'ir^;s,ir;^^i>?-;\r."-^^^^^ 

Another Fireside AiruSKMENT enii«ji«tc rvf « c-w^i 
by some one-for instance, complex The -ame is to b^.^P'o'i^.^^"^ 

gone through with ; a time sl^ould ho n-.llrw?. >^^^^1®^^ ^^^^^^^ 

considered victor. Propel- and Keo-ranhi?nf\?f ^Vlf ^\f ''^T''V^ ^'^^ ^^ 

Whose lot it has fallen to be sea e^s niust sJpt rf if. t,!f ^' H\f. ^"^ ^o 
rush, the speaker^rving^amid the con?n?/on^ ^^^^^ ^^'i^h a 

l^U-'rSl^a-fL'^lTItSe'ill'o'^"^ 

Site khrd Of electrlerty Vplice e^paS?r°a^^^^^^ 

on indefluitely. The trav n nrt no.SJHS, . ^ ■' °," "" """ther, and so 

effective eleotropliOTUs «Mth whiX ,,npT^, "r,??'" " ^''"'^' °«''' '''"* 
experlmeuls described n extboiks Perform many of the 



Chas.Moser&Co. 



uANUFACTURERS OF 



DRY COLORS, 

White Lead, 



A.^T) 



ZINC. 

PAINTERS' SUPPLIES # ^RUSTS' COLORS, 



lilPORTERS OF 



French, English & German Goods, 

ARTISTS' MATERIALS, &c. 
JVb. 61 Main St., bet. 2d and Pearl, 

CINCINNATI. 



HAMILTOIV'S 

BTJCHU and DANDELION, 

Is designed to cure all diseases of the Kidneys and 
Liver, 

B L C H 11 

Is well known to have a specific action on the Kidneys, se- 
curing regularity iji the Urinary flow, which is as essential to 
good health as regular action of the bowels. It is especially 
used in the cure of Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Briek- 
Dust Deposit, Diabetes, Weakness of the Urinary 
Apparatus (from any cause whatever), Secondary Syph- 
ilis, Skin Diseases, and all derangements arising from 
impurities In the blood. It has the sanction of the 
medical profession, in the treatment of Mucous discharg- 
es arising from inflammation of the Urinary Channel, as in 
LeucorrhOBa, Gleet and kindred diseases, both in male 
and female. 

DAIVDELIOIV, 

Is prescribed by Physicians in almost all deranged condi- 
tions of the Liver. It acts directly on that organ, increasing 
the secretion and excretion of the bile, and thus prevents 
Bilious fevers. Bilious Headaches, Sallow Skin, 
Jaundice, and Bilious Diseases of all kinds. 

THE KIDNEYS AND LIVER, 

Are the two agents nature has especially designed to carry 
out the wastes and impurities of the system, — they are 

NATURE'S OWN BLOOD PURIFIERS, 

And acting together under the influence of 

BUCHU Al^B DAl\DEL.IOIV, 

They eliminate from the system all the provoking 
causes of the diseases named, and cures are effected by 
this medicine, because 

IT EXPELS THE CAUSE OF DISEASES. 

There is no other medicine that will so well protect the sys- 
tem from the inroads of malaria. It is got up on common 
sense principles, and has proved a success. Ask for it at the 
Drug Stores, and take no substitute. It does the busi- 
ness, and is the best Buchu in the market. Any Drug- 
gist can procure it for you, from 

( t C. HAMILTON S CO., lokle 2r#ts, SINSIMII. 



HAMILTON'S 

Cod Liver Oil. 

Improper pvocessos in tlie preparation, ami carelessness in se- 
lecting COD LIVER OIL, have thrown into the market sucli acrid, 
nauseous stuff under various proprietary names as in manv in- 
stances have discouraged from its use those who most need its 
curative powers. The palate of the delicate consumptive already 
sensitive from long use of medicines recoils at once from the un- 
wholesome odor and taste of these miserable preparations, and 
needs to be nursed by abstaining from rather thun abused by 
continuing in their use. 

We employ none but the most practiced experts in the selec- 
tion of our Oil, and having access to the largest markets in this 
country, we are able to procure the sweetest, freshest and purest 
Oil offered. 

The Physician may rely on the purity and freshness of 

Hamilton's Cod Liver Oil, 

And the patient rest satisfied that he is receiving a curative agent 
whose virtues have not become impaired by exposure to hurtful 
influence of any kind whatsoever. 

We guarantee it equal in sweetness and purity to any Cod 
Liver Oil in the market. 

, W. C. HAMILTON & CO., Cin'ti. 

Put your Money ivliere it xrill do the 
most good.— Drop in and see 

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 184 198 1 

This Store is Headquarters for 

PURE DEUGS, MEDICINES & DYE STUFFS, 

And the best of everything kept in a FIRST-CLASS DRUG 

STORE, including HAIR BRUSHES and 

TOILET ARTICLES generally. 

All Goods Warranted. Draw your Cash and trade there. 

SPECIALTIES IN PATENT MEDICINES: 

WARRANTED to CURE AGUE, 
Or Money Refunded. 

The best KIDNEY & LIVER 
Medicine of the Age. 



EEss nm IONIC, 

Hamilton's Buck LDindelion, 



