^. 



,.'^.. 







IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET {MT-3) 











"^ 



i^ 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



u^ liig 112.2 



us 



IM 



2.0 



1.8 



1.4 



1.6 




Photograpliic 

Sciences 

Corpomtion 






i\ 



s 



V 



<i 




lO' 





\\ 






'V 



^^^ 

. ^/*:i 





o^ 



'V? 



9) 



4^ 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 






(/. 



fA 



J 




CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notas techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best 
original copy available for filming. Features of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of filming, are checked below. 



L'Institut a microfilmd le meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a it6 possible de se procurer. Les details 
da cet exemplaire qui sont peut-dtre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographiqus, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la mithode normale de filmage 
sont indiquAs ci-dessous. 



□ Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 

I I Coveij damaged/ 



D 



D 
D 
D 

n 



D 



Couverture endommagie 



Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restaurie et/ou pellicul^e 



I I Cover title missing/ 



Le titre de couverture manque 

Coloured maps/ 

Cartes g^ographiques en couleur 

Coloured ink (i.e. other 'chan blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. siutre que b!eue ou noire) 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material/ 
Relii avec d'autres documents 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La re liure serr6e peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distorsion le long de la marge intdrieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajoutdes 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque cela dtait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas 6t6 filmies. 



□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 

□ Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommagdes 

pn Pages restored and/or laminated/ 



D 
D 
□ 



Pages restaur6es et/ou pelliculdes 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
Pages ddcolor^es, tacheties ou piqudes 



n Pages detached/ 
Pages d^tachdes 

r~^ Showthrough/ 



Transparence 

Quality of print varies/ 
Quality indgale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material/ 
Comprend !*• . "^tdriel supplementaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., ont 6ti filmdes d nouveau de facon d 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 







Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppldmentaires; 



Pagination as follows : 12), [11-54, 54a-54b. 551 14, 114a-114h, 115-280. 280a-280b. 
281-284. [1j-57, [Il.[11-22p. 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est film^ au taux de reduction indiqud ci-dessous. 



10X 








14X 








18X 








22X 








26X 








30X 




















7 






























n 



12X 



16X 



20X 



24X 



28X 



32X 



ire 

details 
ies du 
modifier 
jer une 
filmage 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

National Library of Canada 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



L'exemplaire film6 fut reprodult grfice A la 
g6n6rosit6 de: 

Bibliothdque nationale du Canada 



Les images suivantes ont i&t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nettet6 de l'exemplaire film6, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



ies 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplalres originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimde sont film6s en commengant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmds en commengant par la 
premidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ^> (meaning "CON- 
TINUED "), or the symbol V (meaning "END "), 
whichever applies. 



Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ^ signifie "A SUIVRE ', le 
symbole V signifie "FIN ". 



re 



Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent §tre 
filrads d des taux de r6di.totion diffdrents. 
Lorsque le document est trup grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul clich6, il est filmd d partir 
de Tangle supdrieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images ndcessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



y errata 
id to 

It 

16 pelure, 

con d 



280a-280b, 



n 





32X 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



•)» 



.' / 




ArtiWs (iaide and Ever^bod/s Assfstaiit, 

The most comprehensive Collection of New 

and Reliable Secrets, Receipts, Tables, 

&c., in existence, 

Jnit Iitned, eontalnt directionfl for conatrucUon and manif^ 
BtntoT StMin En(j1ne«, Boilers, Valrea, Oaucei, kc., Cemcnti 
for S(«sm work, Sc«i« FtwrentirM, Steam Facklng, Cotnpoiitlon 
Boiler Ccrering, PoUihfbr bright work, Bulea tbr computing 
Bower of Englnea, Size of Cylinder, Fly-wb«clt,*o. On Flour 
Mnte, Uwrul itemt flxr Millwrights and Millert. On Saw-milla 
a Shingle Machines, Beat Saw-milli, Balea for Speed of Wheel*. 
Falleya, Drum*, Circular Sawa, tin. On Saw Filing, full direc- 
tiont, with Dlanama,Tomend broken Sawa. Cheap FireAnnihiU- 
(ora. On Belting, Shafting, Oear-cutting, Bevel Qeart, Friction, 
Sorew work. Planing, Borug, Turning, Finishing, kc. Making 
and tempering AnVila, Locomotire Tlret, Railway and Carriage 
Springs, Saws, AzleL Steel Ploughs, Tools, Axes, Files, Taps, 
Besmars, Cold Chlseia, Marble and Stone Cutters' Tools, Stone 
Drills. Dies. Mill nckf. Edge Tools, Sciisort, Ramrs, Scythes, 
Dental and Surgical Instruments, Cutlery, Chisfll, Ounlock 
Springi, Engraved Steel PlateSj, Watch Springs, Gold and Steel 
Pens, Needles, Fish Hooks, kr Einetj Wheels, 2 kinds. Weld- 
ing Compounds, 6 kinds, Te^iperlng Liquids, 7 kinds, M«tnIllo 
Tempering bath. Case hardeninff. 6 ways. To restore Burnt Steel, 
9 ways, Annealing Steel, *c. To toughen poor Stpel. To im- 
vrore poor Iron and SteeL Directions for smelling Gold, Silver, 
Iron, Copper, Lead, Antimony, 2inc, ke. To reduce Oxides. 
Alloys for Gkild U» kinds. Silver, 24 kinds. Brass, 4S kinds, Bronze, 
U kinds, Anti-fhctioti metals,-19 idnds, Britannia, 23 kinds. Ger- 
man Silver, 

■olden, 47 kl 

for Locomotive*, v/rpui jtiuob, xuuiua, vowma, ^uuukeu ,T IICCW, 

Telescopes,' Helectors, Plated Goods, Albata, British Plate, Bid- 
cry, Birmingham Platin, Eleotrum, Pinchbeck, Oreide, Rivets, 
Buttons, Pewter, Gilding metal, Muntz metal, Pot metal, Steam 
metal. Queen's metal, Prince's metAl, Bath metal, Shentliinf 
metal. Shot metal, Onn metel, Gongs, Cymbals, Moulds, Silverea 
Glass, Mirrors, Electrical Suchines, &c., 79 kinds. For Tinning, 
Blueing, Galvanizing, Coppering, Brassing, Zincinf^, ft Enamel- 
Ung on metala, SS methods. Bronzes, Dipping Acidn, Lacquers, 
Paints, Japanai Inlaid Mother o' Pearl, ftc, for metal work, 77 
ktndsi Bronze Powder, nine kinds. Coloring, Gildinc, and Plat- 
ing, Including mckel plating, 24 methods. For Watch, Chro* 
nometer. Clock, and Jewelry work, 332 very valuable receipts. 
Over dOO reliable processes for Iron, Steel. Anchor, Saw, Tube, 
Chaiii, Aniril, SeHng Mtchine, Fire-proof Safe, jlron Kalling, 
Oas flzture, and Fire-arm Manufacturers, Master Mechanics, 
Machinists, Engineers, Biacksmiths, Horseshoers, Carriage, ftWag- 
oa Makers JTron, Malleable Iron, Brass, Type, Stereotype, ft Bell 
Founders, Pattern Makers, Refiners, Sweep Smelters, Gunsmiths, 
Locksmiths, Cutlers, Millers, Millwrights, Coppersmiths, Gas ft 
Steam Fitters, Plumbers, Marbleworkers, Tinmen.Opticians, Bank 
JSote. Copper Plate and Wood Eneravera, Die sinkers, Stencil- 
eutters, ftc. GIus, 25 kinds. Colored Glass, Glass Staining, Etch- 
ing, ft China Decoration, 23 receipts. To Gild Glass Miens, 5 
methods} Stains for Wood, 48 kinds; PoliHhes, 14 kinds. Wood 
fliUnjT, 10 kinds) Oil Finishes, 6 kinds. For House, Sign, Ship, 
Carnage, ft Ornamental Painters, Graincrs, Cubinet & Musical 
Instrument Makers, Gilders, Carvers, Polishers. Picture Frame 
Dealers, Varnisht^rs, Stucco Workers, ftc, 349 very valuable re- 
ceipts. Cements, Glue, ftc, 37 kinds. For Tanners, Boot, Shoe, 
ft Harness Makers, 52 receipts. , For Dyers, Bleachers, Hatters, 
Clothiers, Soap, ftc, 83 receipts. For Dentivts, 19 receipt«; Popu- 
'lar Medicines, Hair Preparations, Pcrfumerv. &c., 208 recfiptsi 
Horse Medicines, Food for Horses and Cattle, ftc, 70 recciptsi. 
Fertilizers of great power, 80 per cent cheaper than usually sold,' 
IS kinds. Over 4<30 receipts for Wines, Syrup*. Bitters. Cordials, 
Soda Water, Summer Drinks, Cider, Beer, Ale, Torter, Jellies, 
Honey, Candies, Ice Creams, Sauces, Relishes. Fluvoring Kx- 
tracts. Essences, Mustards, Baking Powder, Canned ft Sealed 
Goods, Preserved Meats, ftc. ; Inks, Vinegars, Blacking, Blueing, 
Com Starch, Self-raiiing Flour, Preserving Egfta, Fruits, Cider, 
ftc., Printera' Ink ft Rollers, Linseed, Cottonseeil, Coal, Lubricat- 
ing ft Kerosene Oils, Northern Li);ht, Axle Grease, Compusition 
Roofing, Asphalt Sidewalks ft Rooi's, Matclies, 'i'obocco Flavors, 
Taxidermists, Embalming ft Trapping Secrets, ftc, ftc. For In- 
dia Rubber work, 12 receipts. For ITakera, Cooks, ftc, Kil r«- 
ceiptsi tleadv Reckoner, Interest, Produce, Lumber, Coal, Cord- 
wood, Bark, ^Moulders', Pattern ft Model Makers' Tables, Weishta 
of Iron, Steel, Brass, CoK>er, I<ead, Russia Iron, Jjead Pipe, 
Strength of Cast Iron Columns, ftc, at sight. Free by mail, fot 
$JiM. Agents wanted. Direct all orders to 

leFiriu*, Tbompioo. & AndenoD, Fiederietw, RJ,, Ctwidls 



i 






^7. so 



? I 



/ n 




CANADA 



NATIONAL LIBRARY 
BIBLIOTHEQUE NATIONALE 



MIS' 



M 



THB 



AETIZANS' GUIDE 



Ain> 



EVERYBODY'S ASS/STAH/T; 



OOHTAXinKa OYBl 




TWO THOUSAND NEW AND VAtUABLB 



RECEIPTS AND TABLES 



tm ALMOST wrmvr bsanob o» BostinESB oomraovxtt with cirruxmo 

UVM, VBOIC THK HOUBBHOLD TO THB HUMVrASfTOUY. 



By R. MOORE. 



^UBLIftHED FOR THE PROPRIETOA. 



^^■^—^^" ■■»'■' 




PBINTED by JOHN LpVELL, ST. NICHOLAS STBEBT. 

1873* 



PREFA JE 

The following work will be found to embrace an 
immense amount of the most valuable information 
regarding almost every branch of useful industry. 
The information has been collected from many sources 
with much care and expense, many of the items being 
valuable trade secrets, consequently obtainable only 
at a heavy cost. On the whole, " The Artizan's 
Guide" will be found to embrace a vast amount of 
most useful knowledge in connection with business 
and manufacturing requirements, as well as the no 
less indispensable department of domestic uses, much 
oft' information being very difficult to obtain in 
boo ' ; . The Appendix, embracing the subject of cor- 
respondences, &c., is now inserted for the first time, 
and if favourably received will be inserted in future 
editions. Many persons who are in proper states for 
receiving these truths remain in total ignorance of 
their existence, and have no means of knowing them 
except through some such effort as this. These ex- 
planations are now appended for the benefit of all 
such, certainly not for my own personal emoliiment, 
except so far as happiness may be derived from the 
consciousness of having tried to benefit others, and 
this, beyond all doubt, is an exceeding great reward. 
March 1873. 



[Entered according to Act of Parliament, in the year One Thousand 
Eight Hundred and Seventy-two, by R. Moorb, in the office of the 
^ Minister of Agriculture and StfttJi»tlcs of the Duipinion of Canada.^ 



INDEX. 



For Baking, Cooking, Preserves, Jellies, &c. . . 3-19 

For Dyers, Bleachers, Furriers, Hatters, and 
Clothiers 19-51 

For Druggists, Dentists, Family Medicines, 
Barbers, Perfumers, Fancy Soaps, &c 40-64 

For Grocers, Confectioners, Domestic Wines, 
Sealed Goods, Syrups, Cordials, Ice Creams, 
Beer, &c 64-96 

For Tanners, Curriers, Furriers, Boot, Shoe 
and Harnessmakers, Marble and Ivory- 
workers, Bookbinders, Anglers, Trappers. 
&c 96-106 

For Painters, Varnishers, Cabinet-makers, 
Gilders, Bronzers, Piano and Organ man- 
ufacturers, Glass Stainers, China Decora- 
tors, Potters, Polishers, Wood Stainers, 
Glass Makers, Architects, &c 106-140 

j For Watchmakers, Jewellers, Gilders, Color- 
ers, Eefiners, Gold Beaters, Gold and Silver- 
smiths, Burnishers, Diamond cutters, &c. 140-16'? 

For Machinists, Master Mechanics,Engineers, 
Blacksmiths, Edge tool, Carriage and Wag- 
gon makers. Mill owners, Iron and Brass- 
Founders and Finishers, Locomotive Build- 
ers, Hardware Dealers, Metal Smelters, 
Iron, Steel, Anchor, Tube, Spring, Saw, 
File, Chain, Anvil, Sewing Machine, Fire- 
proof Safe, Iron Eaiilng, Gas Fixture, and 



Fire- Arm manufacturers, Bronzers, Lock- 
smiths, Cutlers, Millers, Sawyers, Copper- 
smiths, Gasfi tiers, Steamfitters, Plumbers, 
Tinmen, Die Sinkers, Steel, Copper-plate 
and Wood Engravers, Stencil cutters, Gold 
and Silversmiths, Sweepsmelters, Enam- 
ellers, Japanners, Rubber work, Gas Com- 
panies, Boiler Makers, Sugar Refiners, 
Starch Manufacturers, Petroleum and Oil 
Dealers, Navigators, Button, Needle and 

Pen Manufacturers, Miners, &c., &c 167-280 

Items for Daily Remembrance 281-284 

Ready Reckoner, Interest, Produce, Lumber, 
Coal, Cordwood, Bark, Moulders', Pattern 
and Model makers Tables, "Weights of Iron, 
Steel, Brass, Copper, Lead, Russia Iron, 
Lead Pipe, Strength of Cast Iron Columns, 
&c., at sight, embracing 22 pages following 

Page , 284 

On Correspondences, &c., See Appendix. 



1^ ^ 



VALUABLE RECEIPTS. 



BAKING AND COOKING DEPARTMENT. 



Baking Brkad. — The quantities and best manner of mixing the 
different ingredients necessary to make good bread, vis., to make 
the fermentation, say, for 10 buckets of flour ; take 5 gflls. of 
potatoes well boiled and mashed in a tub, with 1 bucket of 
water (in summer this water should be about milk-warm, in 
winter much warmer ; in all cases this must be governed by the 
weather), six pounds of flour and Ave Quarts of yeast ; stir the 
whole up well, and cover till it rises. It is better to work the 
same as soon as it does rise and commences falling again ; 
otherwise the bread will not be so good. The time of rising, 
however, varies much ; sometimes it will rise in eight hours, at 
other times it will take much longer. Again, to make the sponge ; 
take 2} buckets of the above ferment, and 2^ buckets of water, 
milk-warm, run the whole through a sieve into a trough, ana 
make it into light dough, with flour for sponge. When this 
sponge has risen and commenced falling, add 5 lbs. salt and 5 
buckets of water; break the sponge well in the water, and stir 
up sufficient flour to make a stiff dough, cover it up until it 
rises sufficiently; it is then fit for being weighed off and put 
into the tins for baking Let it stand in the tins until it rises, 
when it should be placed in the oven. 

N.B. — A i oz. carbonate of masrnesia added to the flour, for 
9 4 lb. loaf, materially improves the quality of the bread even 
when mado from the very worst new seconds flour. It is usual 
with bakets to add alum to the flour, in order to make a white, 
light, and porous bread. Two ounces of alum per 100 lbs. flour 
is generally sufficient. 

Hoi* YsAST.—Boil 6 gals, water and 10 ozs. hops together 
from 10 to 16 minutes ; put 6 lbs. flour in a tub, to which add 
ail much of the boiling liquor as will be necessary to make a 
thick paste. When the remainder of the liquor is perfectly cool, 
add it, together with 1 gal, of stock yeast, to the paste, when 
the whole will be ready for use. 

Malt Yeast. — Boil 10 ozs. hops in 5 gals, of water from 10 to 
15 minutes, pour the same into a tub. When cooled to 70* 
Fahr, add * peck of malt; stir the whole up well, and cover 
it till nearly cool • then add 3 qts. of old yeast to make it fer- 
ment. 

Another Exobllent Bread. — Knead 21 lbs. flour with 9 lbs. of 
pared and mashed potatoes, from which the water has been well 
steamed off previous to mashing ; mix together while the pota- 
toes are warm, adding about 3 or 4 spoonfuls of salt. Then 
add about 3 qts. milk-warm water, witn 9 largei spoonfuls of 
yeast, gradually to the potatoes and flour ; knead and work it 



I 



4 BAKING AND OOOKINO REOEIPTS. 

well Into a smooth dough, and let it stand 4 hours before put- 
tine into the oven. 

Hbalthy Mixed Bmad.— Boil 3 lbs. of rice to a soft pulp in 
water ; pare and cook by steam 6 lbs. of your best potatoes, 
mash vour potatoes, and rub them up with rice pulp ; add to 
the whole 6 lbs. flour ; make all into a dough with water, fer- 
ment with yeast, let it stand a proper length of time, and then 
place it in the oven to bake. 

iflRATED Bread, without Yeast. — 1. Dissolve 1 oz. of sesqui- 
carbonate of ammonia in water, sufficient to make 7 lbs. of flour 
into a dough, which must be formed into loaves, and baked 
immediately. 2. Divide 3 lbs. flour into two portions : mix up 
the first with water, holding in solution 2 oz. bicarbonate of 
soda; then mix the second portion ot flour with water, to which 1 
oz. of muriatic acid has oeen added ; knead each mass of the 
dough thoroughly. When this is done, mix both portions to- 

ffether as rapidly and perfectly as possible, form the mass into 
oaves, and bake immediately. This bread contains no veast, 
and is very wholesome. 

Note. — Bicarbonate of soda and muriatic acid, when chemicallj 
combined, form common salt. 

Superior Bread from Buckwheat Meal.— To 2 qta. of sifted 
buck\tbeat meal, add hot water enough to wet the same; when 
sufficiently cooled, add 1 teaspoonful or more of salt, half a pint of 
yeast, and half a teaspoonful of molasses ; then add wheat flour 
enough to make it into loaves (it should be kneaded well) ; ani 
when risen light, bake or steam it three or more hours. If thi<^ 
should set sour while rising, add a teaspoonful of sugar and (. 
little saleratus, dissolved in water. For bread from Indian meal 
proceed in the same way, usinjg it instead of the buckwheat meal. 

Corn-Meal Bread No. 1. — Take 2 qts. of corn meal, with about 
A pint of (thin) bread sponge, and water enough to wet it ; mix in 
about half a pint of wheat flour, and a tablespoonful of salt; let 
it rise, and then knead well the second time; bake 1^ hours. 

Corn-Meal Bread No. 2. — Mix 2 qts. of new corn meal with 
three pints of warm water ; add 1 tablespoonful of salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and 1 large tablespoonful of hop yeast ; let it 
stand in a warm place five hours to rise ; then add 1 i teacupfuln 
of vi^eat flour, and half a pint of warm water. Let it rise again 
11 hours, then pour it into a pan well greased with sweet lard, 
and let it rise a few minutes. Then bake, in a moderately hot 
oven, 1 hour and 30 minutes. 

Corn-Meal Bread No. 3. — Take 2 qts. of white corn-meal, I 
tablespoonful of lard, 1 pint of hot water ; mix the lard in water ^ 
stir it well that it may get heated thoroughly, and add one-halt 
pint of cold water. When the mixture is cool enough, add two 
well-beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of home-made yeast. 
Bake 1 hour in a moderately heated oven. If for breakfast, make 
over night. 

London Bakers' Bread.— To make a half-peck loaf, take f lbs. ot 
well-boiled, mealy potatoes ; mash them through a fine colander 
or coarse sieve; add ^ pt. of yeast, or f oz. German dried yeast, 



BAKINO AND COOKINQ RECEIPTS. 



ri before pul- 



es, and baked 



hen chemically 



and } pt. lukewarm water (88<» Fahr.), tojothcr with J lb. of flour, 
to render the mixture the consistence of thin batter ; this mixture 
is to be set aside to ferment ^ if set in a warm place, it will rise in 
less than two hours, when it resembles yeast except in color. The 
sponge so made is then to be mixed with 1 pt. of water nearly 
blood wnrm, viz., 92** Fahr., and poured into a half peck of flour, 
which has previously had 11 oz. salt mixed into it ; the whole 
should then be kneaded into dough, and allowed to rise in a warm 

1)lace for 2 hours, when it should be kneaded into loaves, and 
)aked. 

Frbnoh Brkad.— Take nice rice, ) lb. ; tie it up in a thick linen 
bag, giving enough room for it to swell ; boil from three to four 
hours till it becomes a perfect paste ; mix while warm with 7 lbs. 
flour; adding the usual quantities of yeast, salt, and water. 
Allow the dough to work a proper time near the fire, then divide 
into loaves, dust them in, and knead vigorously. This quantity 
will make 13 lbs. 7 oz. of very nutritious bread. 

Paris Baker's White Bread.— On 80 lbs. of the dou^h left from 
the previous day's baking, as much luke-warm water is poured as 
will make 320 lbs. flour into a rather thin dou^h. As soon as this 
has risen, 80 lbs. are taken out, and reserved in a warm place for 
next day's baking. One pound of dry yeast dissolved in warm 
water is then added to the remaining portion^ and the whole lightly 
kneaded. As soon as it is sufficiently " risen," it is then made 
into loaves, and shortly afterwards baked, the loaves being placed 
in the oven without touching each other, so that they may be 
** crusted" all round. 

Brown Bread. — Take equal quantities of Indian meal and rye 
flour, scald the meal, and when lukewarm add the flour, adding 
one-half pint of good yeast to four quarts of the mixture, a table- 
spoon, even full, of salt, and half a cup of molasses, kneading the 
mixture well. This kind of bread should be softer than wneat 
flour bread. All the water added after scalding the meal should 
be lukewarm. When it has risen well, put it to bake in a brick 
oven or stove, the former should be hotter than for flour bread ; 
if a stove oven, it should be steamed two hours then baked one 
hour or more ; when done it is a dark brown. The best article 
for baking this kind of bread is brown earthenware— say pans 
eight or ten inches in height, and diameter about the same ; grease 
or butter the pans ; put in the mixture ; then dip your hand in cold 
water and smooth the loaf; after this slash the loaf both ways 
with a knife, quite deep. Some let it rise a little before they put it 
to bake. Many people prefer this bread made of one-thira rye 
flour instead of one half. When it is difficult to get rye, wheat 
flour will answer as a substitute. It adds very much to the rich- 
ness and flavor of this kind of bread to let it remain in the oven 
over night. 

Gingerbread.— Mix together 3J lbs. of flour ; i lb. butter ; 1 lb. 
sugar ; 1 pint molasses ; i lb. ginger, and some ground orange- 
peel. 

Dyspepsia Bread. — The following receipt for making bread has 
proved highly salutary to persons afflicted with dyspepsia, viz : — 
3 quarts unbolted wheat meal ; 1 quart soft water, warm but iiot 



6 



BAKING AND COOKING REOEIPTB. 



hot ; 1 gill of fresh yeast ; 1 gill molasses, or not, as may suit the 
taste ; 1 teaspoonfuf of saleratu:^. 

Bulbs to be observed in CAKB-MAKiwa. — 1. In making cakes, use 
rofined white sugar, although clean brown sugar does as well. 2. 
Use good sweet butter in every case. 3. (j&ke mixture cannot be 
beaten too much. 4. An earthen basin is the best for beating caLe 
mixture, or eggs in. 5. A good regular heat must be kept up m the 
oven. 6. Use a broom splint to run tL-ough the thickest part of the 
cake ; if done; it will come out clean, if not done, there will be some 
of the dough' sticking to it. This rule applies to bread also. The 
following cakes will be found to come out all right with a fair 
trial 

SupEiiiOR Imdiak Cake.-— Take 2 cups of Indian meal. 1 table- 
spoonful of molasses, 2 cups milk, a little salt, a handful of flour, 
and a little saleratus ; mix thin, and pour H into a buttered bake- 
pan, and bake half an hour. 

Nut CAKBS.—Take 1 lb. flour, \ lb. butter, s»»me of sugar, five 
eggs, and spice to your taate 



Seed Cakb. — 1 tea-cup buttei. 2 cups sugar, rubbed into 4 cups 
flour ; mix with milk hard enougn to roll : i teaspoonful saleratus ; 
seeds to your taste. 

Buckwheat Cake. — Make a batter of buckwheat flour as you 
would for pan-cakes ; let it rise light. Then to each quart of the 
batter add 1 cup of molasses, 2 e^gs, 1 teaspoonful of saleratus, a 
few caraway seeds, and 1 teacuplal wheat flour ; stir well together, 
pour into a greased bread pan, &nd bake in a moderate hot oven f 
of an hour. 

Almond Cake. — TaJre one pound of almonds, blanched and 
beaten ; ten eggs, well beaten ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
and three-quarters of a pound of flour, well mixed and baked. 

Wedding Cake.— Take three lbs. flour, three lbs. butter, thretj 
lbs. sugar, two dozen eggs, four lbs, raisins, six lbs. of currants, 
two lbs. citron, one ounce mace, one ounce cinnamon, one ounco 
nutmeg, half -ounce cloves, half-pint brandy. Beat the batter with 
your hand to cream ; then beat the sugar into the butter ; add thj 
troth of the yolks or the eggs, after being well beaten, then tho 
froth of the whites, mix truit, spice and nour together, then add 
them in, baking five or six hours for a large loaf. 

Pound Cake. — One pou-d of flour, one pound of sugar, on« 
pound of butter, eight eggo, three spoonfuls rose-water, mace, ov 
other spice. 

Buckwheat Short Cake. — Take 3 or 4 cups nice sour milk^ 1 
teaspoonful of soda saleratus dissolved in the milk ; if the milk 
is rery sour, you must use saleratus in proportion with a littl 
salt: mix up a dough with buckwheat flour thicker than you 
would mix the same for griddle cakes, say quite stiflF; put into a 
buttered tin, and put directly into the stove oven, and bake about 
30 minutes, or as you would a short-caKe from common flour. 

Short Cake. — 5 lbs. flour, 8 oz. butter, % lbs. sugar, 8 eggs, rose- 
water and nutmeg. 

Sugar Cake. — Take 7 eggs, and beat the whites and yoiko sepa? 
rately : then beat well togetner ; now put into them sifted white 
sugar, 1 11). J with melted butter, i lb. ; add a pmall teaspoonful of 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



t, as may suit the 



me of sugar, five 



lice sour milk, 1 



pulverized carbonate of ammonia. Stir in just sufficient sifted 
flour to allow of its being rolled out, and cut into cakes. 
GiNG! R Cakb. — Flour 3 lbs., augar and butter, each 1 lb., ginger 

2 oz., molasses 1 pint, cream i pt. and a lUtle nutmeg; mix warm 
and bake in slack oven. 

Plum Cake. — Flour 1 lb., butier \ lb., sugar i lb., currants i lb., 

3 eggs, I pint milk, carbonate of soda, a small teaspoonful. 

Rich Soda Cake. — 1 pound of pulverized loaf-sugar mixed with 
3 lb. of sweet butter, the beaten whites of 14 eggs, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted with a pound of flour, and 
lastly, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half a teacupful of sweet 
milk, and strained. Bake immediately. 

Delicate Tea Cake.— The whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, 
1 cup of pulverized white sugar, J cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, ^ teaspoonful of soda, 2^ cups of 
flour, a teaspoonful of almonds, I cup of melted butter. 

Strawberry Short Cake. — One teacupful of sour milk (not 
kiuttermilk), a piece of. butter the size of a walnut, ^ teaspoonful 
of soda, J teaspoonful of salt. Mix very lightly, and bake in a 
ouick oven. While baking, take 1^ pts. of strawberries, mashed 
nne with the hand ; wht n the cake is cooked enough, cut in two. 
taking off about }, leaving f at the bottom ; spread each pavt 
thickly with batter, then put on the large portion a layer of sugar, 
then the berries, then sugar, and lastly, turn the other part over. 
Serve immediately. 

Sponge Cake. — Sift 1 lb. of flour and 1 lb. of loaf sugar ; take 
the juice of 1 lemon, beat 10 eggs very light, mix them well with 
the sugar, then add the lemon and flour ; if baked in a pan, two 
hours is necessary. 

Loaf Cake. — Take 2 lbs. of flour, j lb. of sugar, i lb. of butter, 
3 cjjgs, 1 gill of milk, J teacupful of sweet yeast, cloves and nut- 
meg for spice. 

Cream Cake. — 1 teacup cream, 2 teacups sugar, three well 
beaten eggs, teaspoonful ^saleratus dissolved in a wine glass of 
milk T)iece of butter half the size of an egg, flour to make as thick 
as pound cake, add raisins and spice to taste j win« and brandy if 
you like. 

Corn Starch Cake. — i lb. of sugar, 4 oz. of butter, 5 eggs, 1 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, i teaspoonful soda, I pound of corn 
btarch, \ a gill of sweet milk. 

Railroad Cake. — A pint of floiiT 1 teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, i a teaspoonful of soda, a tablespoonful of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; bake the batter in a square pan twenty minutes. 

Mountain Cake. — 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, half cup butter, half 
cup of milk or water, 2 cups of flour, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful or sod? , nutmeg. 

Poor Man's Cake. — 1 cup of sugar, J cup of butter, 1 cup sour 
cream, 1 egg, flour enough to make a good batter, ^ a teaspoonful 
of saleratus. 

Fruit Cake. — IJ lbs. sugar, IJ lbs. flour, | lb. butten 6 eggs, a 
pint of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls saleratus, 1 glass of wine, 1 of 
brandy, and as much fruit and spice as you can afford and no 
more. 



8 



BAKINa AND COOKING BECEIFTS. 



Scotch Shobt Bbbad.— Flour 2 pounds, butter 1 pound, brown 
sugar <l pound, blanched almonds, cut small, I pound, candied 
leption pee J, i pound ; beat the butter to a cream, and add it to the 
flour and sugar with the other ingredients. When well kneaded 
and incorporated roll it out into cakes about one inch thick. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Gold Cake. — Yolks of 1 doz. eggs ; flour, 5 cups ; white sugar, 
and butter, of each, one cup ; cream or sweet milk, 1 cup ; cream 
of tartar, 1 teaspoon ; soda, ^ teaspoon. Beat the eg^s with the 
. suear ; have the butter softened bj the fire, then stir it m ; put the 
soda and cream of tartar into the cream or milk, stirring up and 
mixing all together ; then sift and stir in the flour. 

WoNDBBS. — 2 pounds flour, J pound butter, J ounce sugar, -10 
eggb, cinnamon. 

CooKiss. — 3 pounds flour, 3 pound butter, % pound Sugarj 3 eggs ; 
or, without eggs, wet up, raise with saleratus and sour milk. 

Common. — 12 pounds flour, 3 pounds butter, 3 pounds sugar, 2 
quarts milk, yeast, spice to taste. 

Loaf.— 9 quarts flour, 3 pounds butter, 4 pounds sugar, 1 gallon 
milk, wine 1 pint, yeast 1 pint. 

CiDBB Cake. — Flour, 6 cups ; sugar, 3 cups ; butter, 1 cup ; 
cider, 1 cup ; saleratus, 1 teaspoon ; 4 eggs ; 1 grated nutmeg. Beat 
the eggs, sugar^ and butter together, and stir In the flour and 
nutmeg; ; dissolve the saleratus in the cider, and stir into the mass, 
and bake immediately in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cake. — Molasses, IJ cups; saleratus, 1 teaspoon; sour 
milk, 2 cups ; 2 eggs ; butter, lard, or pork gravy, what you would 
take upon a spoon ; if you use lard, add a little salt. Mix all by 
beating a minute or two with a spoon ; dissolving the saleratus in 
the milk ; then stir in flour to give it the consistency of soft cale 
and put directly into a hot oven, being careful not to dry by over 
baking. 

Rook Cakes. — Mix together 1 lb. of flour ; J lb. of sugar ; i Ifc. 
of butter ; J" lb. of currants or cherries, and 4 eggs, leaving oi4 
the whites ot 2 ; a little wine and candied lemon-peel are a great 
improvement. 

Jumbles. — Take 1 lb. of loaf-sugar, pounded fine ; IJ lb. of flour ; 
I lb. of butter ; 4 eggs, beaten light, and a little rose-water and 
spice ; mix them well, and roll them in sugar. 

Cup Cakes. — Mix togeliier 5 cups of flour ; 3 cups of sugar ; I 
cup of butter ; 1 cup of milk ; 3 eggs well beaten ; 1 wine-glass of 
wine ; 1 of brandy, and a little cinnamon. 



eggs, beat to 
lbs. ; irch, 
of 1 lemon ; 



Cymbals.— 2 lb>. flour, 8 oz. butter, J lb. sugar, 6 eggs, rose 
water and a little spice. 

Fbosting, or Icing, for Cakes. — The whites of 8 
a perfect froth and stiff"; pulverized white sugar, 2 
1 tablespoon ; pulverized gum arable, J oz. ; juice 
sift the starch, sugar and gum arabic irto the beaten e^g, and stir 
all thoroughly, when the cake is cold lay on the frostmg to suit. 

Jumbles.— Butter 1 lb., sugar 1 Jb., flour 2 lbs., 3 eggs^ J cup of 
sour milk ; 1 teaspoonful of soda, roll in white coffee sugar. 
This will make a large batch. 

Doughnuts.— Sugar and milk, 2 cups of each ; saleratus, 1 tea- 



BAKINO AND OOOKINO RBCXIPTS. 



>s ; white sugar, 



)unce sugar, -10 



3 sugar, 1 gallon 



of sugar ; i 1% 
^s, leaving ouj 
)eel are a great 



6 eggs, rose- 



spoonful ; 3 eggs, and a piece of batter half as large as a small 
hen's egg, and flour sufficient. 

GRnLLBBS.— Sugar and melted butter, 6 tablespoonfttls of each ; 
6 eggs, and flour to roll. 

Bums. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup of yeast, i pint of milk ; 
make it stiff with flour ; add, .f you like, nutmeg. 

CocoANUT Drops. — 1 lb. grated cocoanut, i lb. white sugar, the 
white of 6 eggs, cut to a stiff froth. You must have enough whites 
ef egg to wet tne whole mixture. Drop on buttered plates, in pieces 
the size of an egg. 

Frbnoh Rolls. — 1 ounce of butter, 1 lb. of flour, 1 gill of home- 
made yeast, 1 egg, milk enough to make a dough. Rub the butter 
through the flour, beat the egg and stir in, then add the yeast, milk, 
and a little salt. Knead the dough ; when it is light, mould it out 
into large biscuits, and bake them on tins. 

Mdfpins. — A quart of milk, 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, 2 lbs. of 
flour, a lump of butter size of an egg— which is to be melted in the 
milk — and a little salt ; the milk is to be wanned, and the ingredients 
added. Let it rise, and then turn the mixture into buttered pans, 
and baKe to a light brown. 

Bath Cakes. — Mix well together, 1 lb. flour, J lb, butter, 5 eggs, 
and a cupful of yeast, set the whole before the fire to rise ; after it 
rises, add i lb. white sugar, and 1 ounce carraway seeds well mixed 
in, and roll the paste into little cakes, bake them on tins. 

No. 1 Gbackbbs. — ^Butter, 1 cup ; salt, 1 teaspoon ; flour, 2 qts. 
Rub thoroughly together with the hand, and wet up with .water ; 
beat well, and beat in flour to make quite brittle and hard ; then 
pinch off pieces, and roll out each cracker by itself. 

Sugar Crackers. — Flour, 4 lbs. ; loaf sugar and butter, of each 
J lb. ; water, 1^ pts. ; make as above. 

Naples Bjscuit. — White sugar, eggs, and flour, of each 4 lbs. 

Lemon Biscuit. — Take 3J lbs. white sugar, 4 lbs. flour, J 
ounce saleratus, 4 lb. suet, a little milk to wet the dough, cut 
them out about the size of marbles, put them on pans a little 
greased, and bake them in a hot oven and flavor them with essence 
of leHion. 

, Abbrnetht Biscuit. — Take 8 its. of flour, li lb. of butter, 1 quart 
of sweet milk, 12 ounces of sugar, 1 ounce of carraway seed, 6 eggs ; 
mix dough of the above, brealc them in pieces of about two ounces, 
mould them off, roll them out, prick them and bake them in a' 
moderate oven. 

Savoy Biscuit. — Take of sugar the weight of 14 eggs, of flour the 
weight of 6 eggs, beat the yellows and whites of 12 eggs, separate, 
grate in the rmd of a lemon ; after being in the oven a few minutes 
grate on some sugar. You may add peach-water, or lemon-juice, 
or any flavoring extract. 

Ginger Snaps. — Take 7 lbs. of flour, 1 quart of molasses, 1 lb. of 
brown sugar, 1 lb. butter, 2 ounces of ground ginger, and then 
take 1 gill of water, I of an ounce of saleratus ; mix them all into 
doughj and cut them out something larger than marbles, and bake 
I them m a moderate oven. 

York Biscuit. — 3 lbs. flour, f lb. butter, i lbs. sugar : wet up, and 
I raise with sovurmilk and saleratus. 



H 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



Travillbr's Biscuit.— 2 lbs. of flour, i of abound of sUgar, | lb. 
butter, 1 teaspoonful of dissolved saleratus, milk suflScient to form 
a dough. Gut up the butter in the flour, add the sugar, and put 
lii tlie saleratus and milk together, so as to form dough. Knead 
it till it becomes perfectly smooth and light. Roll it in sheets about 
^ of an inch thick, cut the cakes with a cutter or the top of a 
tumbler. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Bakino Powdbr for Biscuit. — Bicarbonate of soda 4 lbs., cream 
of tartar 8 lbs. These ingredients should be thoroughly dried and 
well mixed, and put up proof against dampness. Use about 3 tea- 
spoonfuls to each quart of flour, mix up with cold water or milk, 
and put it into the (^ven at once. 

Brown Bread for Biscuits. — Corn meal 4 qts., rye flour 3 qts., 
wheat flour 1 qt., molasses 2 tablespoonfuls, yeast 6 tablespoon- 
fuls, soda 2 teaspoonfuls. Mix during the evening for breakfast. 

MiNCK PiBS — Meat 1 lb., suet 3J lbs., currants, raisins and plums, 
2 lbs., one glass brandy or wine ; allspice, cinnamon and cloves to 
your taste, sugar suflBcient to sweeten. Baked in a short crust. 
. Fruit Pibs. — For all kinds of fruit pies have your fruit sweet- 
ened to your taste, and then put in a short crust. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

. Pumpkin Pib. — Stew the pumpkin dry, and make it like squash 
pie, on\y season rather higher. In the country, where this real 
Yankee pie is prepared in perfection, ginger is almost always used, 
with other spices. There, too, part cream, instead of milk, is mixed 
with the pumpkin, which gives a richer flavor. 

Lbmon Pib. — 1 lemon grated, 2 eggs, ^ cup of sugar, 1 cup of mo- 
lasses, 1 of water, and 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. This makes 3 pies. 

Lemon Pie with three crusts. — A layer of crust, a layer of le- 
mon, sliced flne, a little sugar, layer of crust again, and sugar and 
lemon again, then the upper crust. 

Another Way. — 1 cup of su^ar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 egg, IJ 
lemon the grated peel and juice, 1 tablespoontul of flour ; then 
after baking, the white of an egg beaten, sweetened, and pat on 
the top ; then set in tlie oven and browned. 

Crumb Pib. — Mince any cold meat very finely, season it to taste, 
and put it into a pie-dish ; have soine finely-grated bread crumbs, 
with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pour into the dish anv 
nice gravy that may be at hand ; then cover it over with a thick 
layer of the bread crumbs, and put small pieces of butter over the 
top. Place it in the oven till quite hot. 

Washington Pie. — 1 cup of sugar, third of a cup of butter, half 
a cup of sweet milk, 1 and a third cup of flour, 1 egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, 1 of cream of tartar, lemon flavor, Grease 2 
round tins, and put in the above. Bake until done. Then put it 
on a dinner plate, spread with nice apple-sauce, or sauce of any 
kind ; then another layer of cake on top. It is nice without sauce, 
but sauce improves it. 

Fruit Pie. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 of water, tablespoonful of flour, tea- 
spoonful of lemon essence (or lemon grated),l teaspoonful of cream 
o'" tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, half a cup of dried currants : 
mix and boil, stirring to prevent the flour from settling. 

Chicken Pie— Take one pair of good young chickens, cutinsmMl 



BAKING AND COOKINQ SfciOSIVTS. 



u 



sugar, and put 



pieces, season with pepper and salt and small strips of salt pork, put 
in saucepan with water to cover it, boil for half an hour, add flour 
and butter to thicken the ^ravy, have ready a large dish, served 
with paste, put allln the disn covered with a good rich paste. Bake 
for half an hour 

Veal Pot Pib. — Take 2 pounds of best veal, cut in small 
pieces, half pound of salt pork, sliced thin, four quarts of cold 
water ; pepper and salt all, put on the fire ; after boiling for 1 
hour have 3 pounds of light bread dough, pick small pieces, say 
one ounce pieces, put in saucepan, with the veal and pork and let 
it boil for twenty minutes. Serve as soon as taken from the 
lire 

Plum Pudding. — Pound 6 crackers, and soak them over night in 
milk enough to cover them, then add 3 pints of milk, 4 or 5 eggs, 
raisins i lb., spice with nutmeg and sweeten with sugar ana 
molasses. Bake about 2 hours. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Pick and mash a coflFee cup full of tapioca, 
and pour upon it 1 pint boiling milk; after standing ^ an hour, add 
another pint of cold milk, witn sugar aud raisins if you desire. 

Baked Pudding^ — 5 table^poonfuls of corn starch to 1 quart of 
milk, dissolve the starch in a part of the milk, heat the remainder 
of the milk to nearly boiling, having salted it a little, then add 
the dissolved starch to the milk, boil 3 minutes, stirring it briskly; 
allow it to cool, and then thoroughly mix with it 3 eggs, well beat- 
en, with 3 tablespoonsfuls of sugar ; flavor to^your taste and bake 
It s an hour. This pudding ranks second to none. 

Orange Pudding.— Take 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb of sugar, 10 eggs, 
the juice of 2 oranges, boil the peel, then pound it fine and mix it 
with the juice Add the juice of 1 lemon, a wineglassful of 
brandy, wine and rose-water. If you do not have the fruit add 
the extracts. 

OocoANUT Pudding. — To a large grated cocoanut add the whites 
of 6 eggs, i lb of sugar, 6 ounces of butter, J a wineglassful of 
rose-water, and baked in or out of paste. 

Rice Pudding. — Take 1 lb. of rice, boiled well with rich milk, 
stirring well until it is soft, and then add J lb. butter, 12 eggs, well 
beaten, and spice to your taste, and bake it. 

Hard Times Pudding. — J pint of molasses or syrup, J pint water, 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 1 teaspoonful of salt, fiour enough to 
make a batter ; boil in a bag for 3 hours. Eat it with sauce. 

Baked Apple Pudding. — rare and quarter four large apples, boil 
them tender with the rind of a lemon in so little water that when 
done no water may remain, beat them quite fine in a mortar, add 
the crumb of a small roll, i lb. of butter melted, thi; yolks of 5 and 
whites of 3 eggs, juice of ^ lemon, sugar to your taste, beat all 
well together, all m paste. 

Ground Rice, or Sago Pudding. — Boil a large spoonful of it 
heaped, in 1 pint milk with lemon peel and cinnamon ; when cold 
add sugar, and nutmegs, and 4 eggs, well beaten. 

Custard Pudding.- -Take 1 pint milk, 4 spoonfuls flour, 6 eggs 
spice to your taste and bake. 

Winter Pudding. — Take the crust of baker's loaf of bread, and 
pll it with plums, boil ;t in milk and water. 



12 



BAKINa AND GOOKINO RECEIPTS. 



Bakbd Potatob Pudding. — Baked potatoes skimmed and mashed 
12 oz., suet 1 oz , cheese, grated fine, 1 oz , milk 1 gill. Mix the 
potatoes, suet, milk, cheese and all together, if not of a proper 
consistence, add a little water. Bake in an earthen pot. 

GoLLEGK Puddings. — I lb of stale bread, grated ; the same quan- 
tity of beef suet, chopped very fine ; 1 lb. of currants, J nutmeg, a 
few cloves, a glass of brandy, 2 or 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of cream or 
milk ; mix these well together, and make into a paste in the shape 
of eggs. Fry them gently over a clear fire, in | lb of butter ; let 
them be of a nice brown color all over You may add blanched 
aimonds and sweetmeats Serve them up with wine * 

Family Pudding. — 1 quart of sweet milk, 1 pint of bread crumbs 
soaked in the milk, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teacupful of sngai\ littie 
mace, 6 good tart apples, pared, cores duff out, and stond them 
in the pudding, and steam until the apples are well done. An hour 
will sufSce. 

Oottagb Pudding. — 1 egg, 1 cup of sug..r, 1 of sweet milk, 
1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 of cream or tartar, 1 pint of flour, and a 
little salt. To be eaten with milk and suga,r 

Grbkn Gooseberribb make a nice pudding by stirring a pint of 
them into a pint of batter, and either baking or boiling 

Lbmon Pudding. — Melt 6 oz. of butter, pour it over the same 
quantity of powdered loaf sugar, stirring it well till cold, then 
grate the rind of a large lemon, and add it with 8 eggs well beaten 
and the juice of 2 lemons : stir the whole till it is completely 
mixed together, and bake the pudding with a paste round the 
dish. 

Sauces and Creams for Puddings.— 1. Take equal quantities 
of sugar and molasses, boil them together, and stir in a little 
flour ' 2 Take the juice of an orange, a cap of sugar and the same 
of good cream . 3 Good sour cream made very sweet with sugar; 
Tf'ith or without seasoning, makes a good sauce : 4. Beat 2 eggs 
well, then add a cup of stewed apples and a cup of sugar. 

Beep Steak with Onions — Prepare a rump steak by pounding 
it till quite tender, season with salt, pepper and fresh butter, put 
in the steak and fry it, when brown on one side turn over, do not 
let it scorch, when nicely done, take it up, put a little flour over 
the steak, then add gradually a cup of hot water, seasoned with 
more S8.lt and pepper, if necessary ; then put the water over the 
fire and boil again, and pour over the steak 

Peel 2 dozen onions, put them on to boil with about 2 quarts 
of water an hour before the steak is put on to fry. When the steak 
is done, cut them up, put them in the frying pan, season well with 
salt, pepper, and butter, sprinkle with flour, stir all well together, 
place over the fire, stir often to prevent scorching : when they are 
a little brown and. soft, turn them over the steak 

Seasoning for Stuffing.— 1 lb. of salt, dried and sifted ; half 
an ounce of ground white pepper ; two ounces of dried thyme ; 
1 oz of dried marjoram ; and one oz of nutmeg. When this 
seasoning is used, parsley only is required to be chopped in suffi- 
cient quantity to make the stuffing green. The proportions are — 
i pound of bread crumbs : 3 eggs ; i lb. of suet j J oz. of sea- 
soning ; and the peel of half a lemon, grated. 



BAKING XND cooking RECEIPTS. 



13 



sifted ; half 



EcoMOMiOAii Soup. — Put into a saucepan one-pound pieces of 
stale bread, three large onions sliced, a small cabbage cut fine, 
a carrot and turnip, and a small bead of celery (or the remains of 
an/ cold vegetables), a tablespoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of 
pepper, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram and tbyme 
Put these into two quarts of any weak stock, (the liquor in 
which mutton has been boiled will do,) and let them boil for 
two hours; rub through a fine hair-sieve, add a pint of new 
milk, boil up, and serve at once. 

VF.aBSTABLB Soup.— Take a shin of beef, 3 large carrots, 3 large 

{'^ellow onions, 6 turnips, ^ pound of *rice or barley; parsley, 
eekSj summer savory ; put all into a soup-kettle, and let it boil 
four hours ; add pepper and salt to taste ; nerve altogether. It 
makes a good family soup. 

Pba Soup. — Beet 5 lbs., water 5 qts., 6 large carrots, 6 good 
turnips, 3 large onions, salt sutficient, put it on a good slow 
fire, let it boil 3 hours, then strain all the broth from meat and 
vegetables, and then add 3 lbs. of split peas to the broth ; set it on 
a slow fire for 2 hours, stirring often, so that all the peas will dis- 
solve ; take 1 lb. fresh sausage meat, ft'ied to a crisp and fried bread 
crumbs ; put all together, add a few fine herbs, and serve hot. 

Fricassee Chickens. — Take 2 large young chicken? cut in small 
pieces, put in cold water for 1 hour to take all the blood out, then 
put in saucepan to parboil for half an hour, then take from sauce- 

Ean drained well, have ready 1 c^t. good fresh cream, 2 oz. good 
utter, 1 oz. of flour, all well mixed together; put in saucepan 
with the chickens ; put on the fire to boil tender ; season with 

Sepper and salt ; served with toast bread in the bottom of the 
ish. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Wash the tomatoes, take out the seed, make 
dr dressing of crumbs of bread and onions chopped fine ; add 
salt, butter and pepper. Bake and s^rve hot. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Scald the tomatoes with hot water, take 
off the skins, put them in an earthen vessel, strain off the water 
and add butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mashed Turnips. — Wasn turnips, boil well, take them up in the 
colander, press out all the water, mash very fine ; season with salt, 
butter and sugar, Serve hot with trimmings- 

Hashed Meat. — Take 2 lbs of fat corned beef, well boiled and 
cold; 1 lb. of well boiled potatoes, cold; 1 large white onion; 
put in chopping tray, mince it fine, put all in saucepan together, 
add 2 ozs. butter ; pepper and sajt to tfiste ; add boiling water to 
make it soft; set it on a slow fire, stirring it often. When well stewed 
serve hot It makes a fine relish for breakfast. 

Lobster Salad.— Take inside of large lobster, mince fine, take 
yolk of 2 eggs boiled hard and mashed fine, with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet oil ; pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard to taste ; mix 
well ; add celery or lettuce to taste ; then when serving, garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. 

Succotash. — Take 1 doz. ears of corn, cut the grains from the 
cob, add 1 qt. of Lima beans, and mix with the corn ; put it on to 
boil in 3 qt. of water with 1 lb. of pork cut j add black pepper and 



14 



BAKING AND OOOKINQ RECEIPTS. 



gait to taste. When the water has boiled away to \ the original 
quantity, serve in a tureen as soup. 

Maccaroni Sodp. — 4 lbs. of lean beef, 4 qts. of water, carrot 
turnip, ouions ; set it for 4 hours till all mix together ; strain it all 
through a sieve ; have 2 lbs. of maccaroni broken into pieces of one 
inch long ; put all into a saucepan together, and let it boil for 10 
minutes, and serve it hot. 

Boiled Custard, or Mock Cream. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch,)! qt. of milk, 2 or 3 eggs, i a teaspoonful of salt and a small 
piece of butter ; heat the milk to nearly boiling and add the starch, 
previously dissolved in 1 qt. of milk, then add the eggs, well beaten, 
with 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; let it boil up once or 
twice, stirring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, or raspberry, or to suit your taste. » 

Lemon Cream. — Take a pint of thick cream and put to it the 
yolks ot two eggs, well beaten, 4 oz. of fine sugar and the thin 
rind of a lemon , ooil it up, then stir till almost cold , put the juice 
of a lemon in a dish or bowl and pour the cream upon it, stirring 
till quite cold. 

Fruit Creams. — Take I oz. of isinglass dissolved in a little 
water, then put 1 pt. of good cream, sweetened to the taste ; boil 
it When nearly cold lay some ai)ricot or raspberry jam on the 
bottom of a glass dish and pour it over This is most excellent. 
, Raspberry Cream. — Put 6 ozs. of raspberry jam to 1 qt. of 
cream, pulp it through a lawn sieve, add to it the juice of a lemon 
and a little sugar, and whisk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or 
glasses. 

To roast fowls the fire must be quick and clear. If smoky, it 
will spoil both their taste and looks Baste freauently, and keep 
a white paper pinned on the breast till it is near done 

Turkey. — A good sized turkey should be roasted 2J hours or 
3 hours — very slowly at first, If you wish to make plain stuffing, 
pound a cracker or crumble some bread very ihie, chop some 
raw salt jiork very fine, sift some sage, (and summer-savonr, or 
sweet-marjoram, if you have them in the house, and fancy 
them,) and mould them all together, seasoned with a little pepper. 
An egg worked in makes4he stuffing cut better 

Boiled Turkey. — Clean the turkey, fill the crop with stuffing, 
and sew it up. Put it over the fire in water enough to cover it, 
let it boil slowly — take off all the scum When this is done, it 
should only simmer till it is done. Put a little salt into the water, 
and dredge the turkey with flour before boiling. 

Roast Ducks and Geese. — Take sage, wash and pick it, and an 
onion; chop ihem fine, with popper and saltj and put them in the 
belly, let the goose be clean picked, and wiped dry with a cloth, 
inside and out ; put it down to the fire, and roast it brown. Ducks 
are dressed in the same way. For wild ducks, teal, pigeons, and 
other wild fowl, use only pepper and salt, with gravy in the dish. 
Roast Chicken. — Chickens should be managed in roasting the 
same as turkeys, only that they require less time. From an hour 
to an hour and a half is long enough. 

Boiled Chicken. — A chicken should be boiled the same as a 
turkey, only it will take less tinae— about 35 minutes is suffi- 



BAKINO AND COOKINCt REOEIPTS. 



15 



le, chop some 



i little pepper. 



cient. Use the same stuffing, if any, and serve it up with parsley, 
or egg-sauce. 
Broiled Ghickvm.— Slit them down the back and season with 

Eiepper and salt ; lay them on a clear fire of coals, the inside next 
he fire till half done , then turn, and broil to a fine brown coloc. 
Broil about 35 minutes. 

Boiled PiGBONS. — Bel them about 15 minutes by themselves ; 
then boil a piece of bacon ; serve with slices of bacon and melted 
butter. 

Fish Chowder. — Fry a few slices of salt pork, dress and cut th» 
fish in smali pieces, pare and slice the potatoes and onions, then 
place them in the kattle, a layer of fish, then of the fried pork, 
potatoes, onions, &c., seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. 
Stew over a slow fire 30 minutes. 

Roast Beep. — The sirloin is considered the best for roasting. 
Spit the meat, pepper the top, and baste it well while roasting 
with its own dripping, and throw on a handful of salt. When the 
smoke draws to the nre, it is near enough ; keep the fire bright 
and clear. From 15 to 20 minutes to the lb., is the rule for roast- 
ing. 

Beep Boiled.— -The round is the best boiling piece. Put the 
meat in the pot, with water enough to cover it ; let it boil very 
slow at first — this is the great secret of making it tender — take off 
the scum as it rises. From 2 to 3 hours, according to size, is the 
rule for boiling. 

Beep Steak. — The inside of the sirloin makes the best steak ; 
cut about f of an inch thick — have the gridiron hot, put on the 
meat and set it over a good fire of coals — turn them often. From 
8 to 10 minutes is the rule for broiling. 

Roast Pork. — Take a leg of pork and wash it clean — cut the 
skin in squares — make a stufiing of grated bread, sage, onion, 
pepper and salt, moistened with the yolk of an egg. Put this 
under the skin of the knuckle, and sprinkle a little powdered sage 
into the rind where it is cut ; rub the whole surface of the skin 
over with a feather dipped in sweet oil. 8 lbs. will require about 
three hours to roast it. 

Jj@^ The Shoulder, Loin, or Chine, and Spare- Rib are roasted 
in the same manner. 

Roast Veal. — Pursue about the same course as in roasting pork. 
Roast before a brisk fire till it comes to a brown color ; when you 
lay it down baste it well with good butter, and when near done, 
^ith a little flour. 

3oAST Mutton. — The loin, haunch, and saddle of mutton and 
lamb must be done the same as beef. All other parts must be 
roasted with a quick, clear fire ; baste it when you put it down, 
and dredge it with a little flour, just before you take it up. A leg 
of mutton of six pounds will require 1 hour to roast before a quick 
fire. 

To Boil Eggs. — In 3 minutes an egp: will boil soft, in 4 the 
white part is completely cooked, in 10, it is fit for a salad. Try 
their freshness in cold w«ter, those that sink the soonest are the 
freshest. 

Sausage Meat. — Take 2 lbs. lean meat^ 1 lb. fat-pork, chop fine, 



le 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



aud mix with 2 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 1 of ves, 7 o. 
powdered sage, and 5 of salt. 

Applb Custard — Take apples, pared, cored, and slight^^ .tewed, 
sufficient to cover the dish, 8 eggs, 1 qt. of milk j spici^ to your 
taste ; bake it i of an hour. 

New- England Applb-sacce ob Butter. — Boil 2 brls. of new cider 
down to i a brl. Pare, core, and slice up 3 bushels of apples 
(sweet apples are preferable), and put them into the cider tuus 
reduced, and still kept boiling briskly. Stir the whole mass 
constantly, to prevent burning, till of the consistence of soft 
butter. A small quantity of pulverized allspice, added during the 
boiling, is an improvement. Boil in a brass kettle, and, when 
done, put it into a wooden firkin, or small cask, and it will keep 
for years. 

Apple Butter (Pennsylvania Method). — Boil new cider down 
to i. Pare, cut, and core equal quantities of sweet and sour 
apples. Put the sweet apples in a large kettle to soften a little 
first, as they are the hardest. Add enough boiled cider to cook 
them. After boiling \ an hour, stirring often, put in the sour 
apples, and add more boiled cider, with molasses enough to 
sweeten moderately. Boil until tender, stirring to prevent burning. 
Pack in firkins or stone pots for winter use. 

Irish Stew. — Take 4 lbs. good breast of fat mutton, cut in small 
pieces; 2 large white onions ; 10 large potatoes, well jeeled and 
sliced ; put all in saucepan together, with fine herbs, pepper and 
salt to suit; a little salt pork is a good addition ; § lb. of flour ; 
i lb. good fresh butter, well rubbed together, and let it boil for one 
hour, and have it well cooked. 

Apple Dumplings. — 6 eggs, Ij lbs. of flour, some butter to your 
taste, and tablespoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make a 
dough to roll-out ; when raised, cut in small pieces, put in the 
apples, and cook for ^ of an hour ; serve with white sugar or wine 
sauce. 

Boiled Poultry. — Take large chickens, well cleaned with cold 
water, put in saucepan with water to cover, boil 1 hour; served 
with saucf. 

Hashed Turkey. — Take ineat from boiled fowls, chop fine, put in 
saucepan, with seasoning to suit taste. Served on toast. 

Boiled Maccaroni. — Take 2 lbs., break in small pieces, put in 
warm water to steep 1 hour, drain off, put in saucepan with 2 qts, 
fresh cream, with grated cheese ; seasoned with red pepper. 

Stbasbubq Potted Meat. — Take IJ lbs. of the rump of beef, cut 
into dice, put it in an earthen jar, with I lb. of butter, tie the jar 
close up with paper, and set over a pot to boil ; when nearly done, 
add cloves, mace, allspice, nutmeg, salt, and cayenne pepper to 
taste, then boil till tender, and let it get cold, pound the meat, 
with 4 anchovies mashed and boned, add \ lb. of oiled butter, 
work it well together with the gravy, warm a little, and add 
cochineal to color, then press into small pots, and pour nielted 
mutton suet over the top of each. 

Bologna Sausages. — Take equal quantities of bacon, fat an(? letn> 
beef, veal, pork and beef suet ; chop them small, season with pep- 
per, salt, &c., with s^eet herbs ftnd sage rubbed fine, Have srell 



BAKTVO AND d OKINO REOEIPTB. 



17 



washed intestines, fill, and prick them; boil gently for an 'hour, 
and lay on straw to drv. 

Rich Sausages. — Take 30 lbs. of chopped meat, 8 oz. fine salt, 
2i oz. pepper, 2 tea cups of sage, and U cups of sweet marjoram, 
passed through a fine sieve, or, if preferred, thyme and summer 
savory can be substituted for the latter. 

How TO SAYB YOUR IcB BiLL. — Get a quantity of empty barrels or 
boxes during the coldest time in the winter, and put a few inches 
of water in each ; the evening when the cold is most intense is the 
best time to do this. After tne water is frozen solid, fill up again, 
repeat the process until the barrels are full of solid ice, then roll 
them into your cellar, cover them up with plenty of sawdust 
or straw, and your ice crop is safely harvested. 

Charlotte Kvssb. — Take 1 pt milk, dissolve with heat, 3 oz. 
isinglass and 1 lb. sugar; add, after it is cool, 1 qt. beaten cream 
and flour, suit your taste and line out nome mould with sponge 
cake, and put the cream in it and cool. 

WiNB Jblly.— Take 1 pt. water and 3 oz. isinglass, H lb. sugar, 
the juice of 2 lemons, and dissolve that and let it come to a boil, 
then add wine, branay and spice to your taste, and strain it through 
a cotton or flannel cloth and put it in moulds to cool. 

To MAKE Apple Molasses. — Take new sweet cider just from the 
press, made from sweet apples, and boil it down as thick as West- 
India molasses. It should be boiled in brass, and not burned, 
a3 that would injure the flavor. It will keep in the cellar, and is 
said to be as good, and for many purposes better, than West-India 
molasses. 

HS^Acid fruits should be cooked in bright tin, brass, or bell 
metal, and poured out as soon as they are done. Brown earthen 
vessels should never be used, as they are glazed with white lead, 
a poison which very readily unites with an acid. 

Jellies. — Lemon Jelly. — Isinglass, 2 oz. ; water, 1 qt. ; boil ; add 
sugar, 1 lb. ; clarify ; and, when nearly cold, add the juice of 6 
lemons, and the grated yellow rinds of 2 oranges and 2 lemons ; 
mix well, strain oflF the peel, and put it into glasses or bottles; 
Hartshorn Jelly. — Hartshorn, 1 lb. ; water 1 gal. ; peel of 2 lemons j 
boil over a gentle fire till sufficiently thick ; strain and add loaf 
sugar, i lb. ; whites of 10 eggs beaten to a froth ; juice of 6 lemons ; 
mix well together, then bottle. Isinglass Jelly. — Put 4 oz. isinglass 
and 2 oz. cloves into 1 gal. water ; boil it down to half a gal. ; strain 
it upon 4 lbs. of loaf sugar ; add, while cooling, a little wine ; then 
bottle. Apple Jelly from Cider.-— Take of apple juice, strained, 4 
lbs. ; sugar, 2 lbs. ; boil to a jelly, and bottle. Gooseberry Jelly. — 
Sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 2 lbs. ; boil together ; it will be nearly solid 
when cold ; to this syrup, add an equal weight of gooseberry juice ; 
give it a short boil, cool, then pot it. Currant Jelly. — Take the 
juice of reel currants, and loaf sugar, equal quantities ; boil and stir 
gently for three hours ; put it into glasses ; and in three days it 
will concentrate into a firm jelly. Tapioca Jelly. — Wash 8 oz 
of tapioca well ; then soak it in 1 gal. fresh water, five or six hours ; 
add the peels of 8 lemons, and set all on to heat ; simmer till clear ; 
add the juice of the 8 lemons with wine and sugar to tagte ; then 
bottle. 



rf 



Pi 



1-8 



BAKINa AND COOKING RKCE1PT8. 



¥ 



Blackberhy Jelly. — Thia preparation of the blackberry ia inot% 
agreeable than tlie jam, an ttie aetvjs. though very wholesome, are 
not Agreeable to all. It is made in tlie same way as currant jelhr ; 
but the fruit ia ao aweet that it only requirea half the weight of the 
juico in augar. 

Pbah Marmalade. — To 6 lbs. of small peara, take 4 lbs. of sugur; 
put the peara into a aaucepan, with a little cold water ; cover it, 
and set it over the fire until the fruit ia soft, then put them into 
cold water ; pare, auarter, and core them ; put to them three tea- 
cups of water, aet tnem over the fire ; roll the augar fine, maah the 
fruit fine and amooth, put the augar to it, stir it well together until 
it ia thick, like jelly, then put it in tumblera, or jara, and, when cold, 
secure it as jelly. 

Preserved Citron. — Pare ani cut open the citron ; clean all out 
except the rind ; boil till soft. To 1 lb. of citron add 1 lb. of augar, 
and a lemon to each lb. ; put the sugar and lemon together, and 
boil it till it becomea a syrup, skimmmg it well ; then put the syrup 
and citron together, and boil it an hour. 

Scotch Marmalade. — Take of the juice of Seville oranges 2 
pts., yellow honey, 2 lbs. Boil to a proper conaiatence. 

Raspbbbrt Jam. — Allow a pound of augar to a pound of fruit, 
mash the raspberries and put them, with the augarj into your 
reserving kettle. Boil it slowly for an hour, skimming it well, 
ie it up with brandy paper. AH jams are made in the same 
manner. 

French Honey. — "White sugar, 1 lb. ; 6 eggs, leaving out the 
whites of 2 ; the juice of 3 or 4 lemons, and the grated rind of 2, 
and i lb. of butter ; stir over a slow fire until it is of the consis- 
tency of honey. 

Almond Blanc Mangb.— Take four ounces of almonds, six oz. 
sugar, boil together with a quart of water, melt in this two 
ounces of pure isinglass, strain in a small tin mould to stiffen it. 
When wanted, dip the mould in hot water and turn it out. 

Lemon Blanc Mange. — Pour a pint of hot water upon half an 
ounce of isinglass ; when it is dissolved add the juice of three 
lemons, the peel of two lemons grated^ six yolks of eggs beaten, 
and about a good wine-glaas of Madeira wine to it ; sweeten to 
your taste ; let it boil ; then strain it and put it in your moulds. 

Molasses Preserves. — Boil 1 qt. of molasses about ten or fifteen 
minutes to a thickish consistency, then add 6 eggs well beaten, 
an>A a spoonful of flour. Boil a few minutes longer, stirring con- 
ah xtly, then set off the fire, and flavor with lemon or allspice as 
desired. 

Fruit Extracts, &c — Good alcohol, 1 qt. oil of lemon, 2 oz. Break 
and bruise the peel of 4 lemons, and add to the alcohol for a few 
days, then filter. For currants, peaches, raspberries, pine apples, 
strawberries, blackberries &c.^ take alcohol and water half and 
half, and pour over the fruit, entirely covering it, and let it 
stand for a few days. For easence of cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, 
vanilla, Ac, pulverise either article thoroughly, and put about 
2 oz. of the resulting powder to each pint of reducea alcohol, 
agitate the mixture frequently for 2 weeks, then filter and color as 
deaireti. 



rs. 

ickberry is mort 

wholeaome, are 

as cuiTttjat jelly ; 

be weight of tne 



) 4 lbs. of sugar; 
water ; cover it, 
n put them into 
tbem three tea- 
ar Hne, mash the 
ill together until 
, and, when cold, 

m ; clean all out 
Id 1 lb. of sugar, 
n together, and 
en put the syrup 



oranges 2 



jville 

tence. 

1 pound of fruit, 

mgarj into your 

cimming it well. 

ide in the same 

leaving out the 
rated rind of 2, 
is of the consis- 

monds, six oz. 

It in this two 

|uld to stiffen it. 
it out. 

tr upon half an 
juice of three 

jof eggs beaten, 
it ; sweeten to 

your moulds, 
t ten or fifteen 
s well beaten, 
, stirring Con- 
or allspice as 



ion, 2 



oz. Break 
ohol for a few 
, pine apples, 
ater half and 
it, and let it 
utmeg, mace, 
nd put about 
ucea alcohol, 
r and color as 



VABli£Bs' BSOSIPTS. 
MbASURM for HonSBKMPSAB. 



i^ 



iKTheat flour 1' lb. ... is 1 quart. 

Indian meal l<'2oz" 1 quart. 

Hutter when Boft. 1 " — "1 '• 
Loaf rogar.broken 1 "...." 1 " 
White Migar^powd 1 " 1 ot. " 1 " 



Beat brown 

sugar 1 lb. 2 oz. ia 1 qt. 

Eggf 10 eggs arel lb. 

Flour 3qu. "Ipeok. 

Flour 4 pki. "1 bush. 



Liquids. 



16 large tablespoonftila, are. .1 pint. 
8 largo tablespoonfula are. .1 gill. 
4 largu tableapoonAils, are. .^ gill. 

2gill8,are j pint. 

2 pints, are Iqt. 



4 qts. are .. , 1 gallon. 

A common sized tumbler holds ^ a 

pint. 
A common sized wine-glass " A a 

gill. 
?6 drops are equal to 1 teaspoonfnl. 



FARMERS AND STOCK OWNERS' DEPART. 

MENT. 

SOPBRPHOSPHATB OF LlMB!, THE GREATEST AORIOHLTDaAL DISCOVERY 

o» THE Age. — Take a large puncheon, large' tub, or barrel, and put 
into it 100 lbs. water , add, very slowly and cautiously, 50 lbs. of 
pure sulphuric acid : you must be very careful, while handling 
this article, not to let it touch vour skin or clothing, as it wiU 
instantly blacken the skin, and destroy the clothing, wherever it 
comes in contact; and, wnen mixed with water, it engenders a 
very intense heat. Into this mixture throw 100 lbs. weight of 
bones, no matter how old or useless they may be. The sulphuric 
acid instantly attacks and enters into combination with the oones, 
reducing them to a pasty consistence, and completely dissolving 
them. Keep under cover, and turn thei i over occasionally, while 
the process is going on ; and, when completed, dump out the whole 
contents on the nam floor or on a platform of boards, and 
thoroughlv work into the mass four times its bulk of dry bog- 
earth or dry road-dust; mix and pulverize completely with a 
wooden shovel. The bog-earth acts as an absorbent or drier, 
retaining the fertilizing properties of the compound, and rendering 
it easy oi' uniform distribution. If whole bones are used, it wifl 
take six or eight weeks to dissolve them ; if they are broken with 
an axe, they will dissolve in about three weeks ; if they are ground 
in a bone mill, four days will be sufficient. This manure is the 
most powerful fertilizer in existence ; and, when made by these 
directions, it is the cheapest, as one ton is equal to thirty-two tons 
of barn-yard manure. For top-dressing grass lands, use 300 lbs. 
per acre; for corn, potatoes, beans, turnips, &c., apply 450 lbs. per 
acre in the drill, mixing with the soil : f6r wheat, rye, oats, or 
barley, 400 lbs. per acre, k.rroW in with the seed : ror buckwheat, 
300 lbs. per acre. 

SupBRPHOSPHATfe IN TwBNTT-FouR HoURS. — Any farmer who has 
got an apparatus for steaming food for cattle can make super- 
phosphate in quick style by admitting steam from the boiler into 



^ 



VARHEBS* RECEIPTS. 



the barrel containing tbe water, acid, 
heat thus generated quickens the dise 



and ground bones. HHie 
dissolution of the bones in a 
wonderful manner ; and, if the process is properly conducted, it 
will not take over twenty-four hours in any case. It is indispen- 
sable that the barrel be tightly covered to retain the steam. 

Fbrtilizrr for Tobacco. — Take and add 30 lbs. of the best 
Peruvian Guano to each 100 lbs. weight of the superphosphate 
made by the above receipt, and you will have one of the most 
powerful fertilizers for tobacco that can be made. If you do not 
have Peruvian Guano, use in lieu thereof 25 lbs. of hen manure to 
each 100 lbs. weight of superphosphate. 

HoMB-MADB PouDRBTTB.— Few fertilizers are wasted with the 
prodigality of extravagance which attends the use of night soil, 
while the exercise of a little care and atteccion is all that is 
required to secure one of the most powerful fertilizers in existence. 
Night soil conteuns phosphate of lime, which is essential to the 
growth of animals' bones, and whicn is not supplied from the 
atmosphere like carbonic acid and ammonia In order to receive 
the droppings in a manageable and inoflfensive state, the vault 
should be provided with a large, tight box made of matched plank, 
placed to slide on scantling, so that it can be drawn out, by 
attachii^ a horse, whenever required. Provide plenty of dry, 
black lokax from thewoods or swamps : refuse charcoal, drv peat, 
or alluvial deposits answer first-rate. Keep them dry, in barrels 
or boxes on the spot, under cover ; spread a thick layer on the 
bottom of the receiving box, and at intervals of a few days throw 
in a liberal supply of these absorbents on the accumulating deposit. 
If a few hanofuls of plaster are thrown in occasionally, it w&l 
sup^ ress unpleasant odors, and increase the value of the manure. 
The emptying of slops and dish water in the box should be strictly 
pfohibited. When the box is filled, you can remove it, and con- 
vert it into poudrette. For this purpose it must be worked over 
with an additional quantity of muck, or other absorbent, in such 
.proportions that it will form, with what has been previously added, 
about three-quarters of the entire compound. The working should 
be done under a shed, and the whole kept perfectly dry. It should 
be shovelled over and mixed several times at intervals, and finally 
screened, and made as uniform throughout as possible : the finer it 
is pulverized, and the drier it is kept, the better. 

HoMs-MADB Guano of Unequalled Excellence.— Save all your 
fowl manure frotn sun and rain. To prepare it for use, spread a 
layer of dry swamp-muck ( the blacker it is the better) on your 
barn floor, and dump on it the whole of your fowl-mauure ; beat it 
into a fine powder with the back of your spade ; this done, add hard 
wood ashes and plaster of Paris, so that the compound shall be 
composed of the following proportions • dried muck, three bushels; 
fowl-manure, 2 bushels; ashes, 1 bushel; plaster, Ij bushels. 
Mix thoroughly, and spare no labor ; for, in this matter, the elbow- 
grease expended will be well paid for. A little before planting, 
moisten the heap with water, or, better still with urine ; cover well 
over with old mats, and let it lie till wanted for use. Apply it to beans 
corn, or potatoes, at the rate of a handful to a hill ; and mix with 
the soil before dropping the seed. This will be found the best 



:2«A^l:Rd' R&dEIPllS. 



21 



zers in existence, 
essential to the 
pplied from the 
order to receive 
state, the vault 



eubstitttte for g;uano ever invented, and may be depended on for 
bringing great crops of turnips, corn, potatoes, &c. 

To Dissolve Large Bonbs for Manure, without Expense. — Take 
any old flour-barrel, and put into the bottom a layer of hard-wood 
ashes ; put a layer of bones on the top of the ashes, and add 
another layer of ashes, filling the space between the bones 
with them ; then add bones and ashes alternately, finishing off 
with a thick layer of ashes. When your >'arrel is filled, pour 
on water (urine is better,) just sufficient to keep them wet, 
bat do not on any account suffer it to leach one drop ; for that 
would be like leaching vour dungheap. In the c jurse of timo they 
will heat, and eventually soften down so that you can crumble 
them with your finger. When sufficiently softened, dump them 
out of the barrel on a heap of dry loam, and pulverize and crumble 
them up till they are completely amalgamated into one homoge- 
neous mass with the loam, so that it can be easily handled and 
distributed whenever required. You may rely on it, this manure 
will leave its mark, and show good results wnerever it is used 

Substitute for Superphosphate. If you have inch bone ground in 
a bone-mill, and cannot afford to purchase sulphuric acid to work 
it up into superphosphate of lime, you can reduce your bones into 
a fine impalpable powder by simply using three barrels of loamy 
soil to every barrel of inch bones ; mix them together The bones 
,will soon begin to heat and ferment, and continue so for some 
time ; they will then cool off. You will then proceed to chop down 
and pulverize and work the mass thoroughly ; it will begin to re- 
heat and ferment and cool down again ; and you will continue 
onrorking it over till the contents are brought to the proper state of 
fineness, when you will have a fertilizer of astonishing power It 
is only a year or two since a statement appeared in the " Country 
Gentleman," of the experiments of a Mr. Haskell with a manure 
prepared after this method, who found it even superior to super- 
phosphate of lime. 

How TO DOUBLE THE USUAL QUANTITY OP MaNURH ON A FaRM. — 

Provide a good supply of black swamp mould or loam from tfce 
woods, within easy reach of your stable, and place a layer of this, 
one foot thick, under each horse, with litter as usual, on the top ot 
the loam or mould. Remove the droppings of the animals every 
day, but let the loam remain for two weeks ; then remove it, mixing 
it with the other manure, and replace with fresh mould. By this 
simple meanSj any farmer can aouble not only the quantity but 
also the quality of his manure, and never feel himself one penny 
the poorer by the trouble or expense incurred, while the fertilizing 
value of the ingredients absorbed and saved by the loam can 
scarcely be estimated, 

Josiah Quincy, jun., has been very successful in keeping cattle m 
stables the year through, and feeding them, by means of soiling. The 
amount of manure thus made had enabled him to improve the fer- 
tility of a poor farm of 100 acres, so that in twentv years the hay 
crop had increased from 20 to 300 tons. The cattle are kept in a 
well-arranged stable, and are let out into the yard an hour or two 
morning and afternoon ; but they generally appear glad to return 
to their quarters. By this process, one acre enables him to sup- 



i i 

1! 1 



22 



VARHERS' B£C1IPTS. 



port three or four cows. They are fed on graas, green oats, com 
fodder, barley, &c., which are sown at intervals through the spring 
and) summer months, to be cut as required ; but he remarks that his 
most valuable crop is his manure crop. Each cow produces 3^ 
cords of solid, and 3 cords of liquid manure, or 6J cords in all He 
uses twice as much muck to mix with it, making 20 cords in all. 
Five to eight miles from Boston, such manure is worth five to eight 
dollars a cord. From this estimate, he has come to the conclusion 
that a cow's manure may be made as valuable as her milk 

Twenty Dollars' Worth of Manure fob almost Nothing — 
If you have any dead animal, — say, for instance, the body of a 
horse, — do not suffer it to pollute the atmosphere by drawing it 
away to the woods or any other out of the way place, but remove 
it a short di&tance only, from your premises, and put down four or 
five loads of muck or sods, place the carcass thereon, and sprinkle 
it over with quick-lime, and cover over immediately with sods or 
mould suflScient to make, with what had been jjraviously added, 20 
good waggon-loads ; and you will have, within twelve months, a 
pile of manure worth $20 for any crop you choose to put it upon. 
tTse a proportionate quantity of mould for smaller animals, but 
never less than twenty good waggon-loads for a horse ; and, if any 
dogs manifest too great a regard for the enclosed carcass, shoot 
them on the spot, 

Fish Compost, Substitute for Bone-Dust, Manure from Fish 
Refuse, &c. — The fish owes its fertilizing value to the animal 
matter and bone-earth which it contains. Tlie former is precisely 
similar to flesh or blood, consistiqg of 25 per cent, uf fibrin, the rest 
being water ; and their bones are similar in composition to those 
of terrestrial animals. As fertilizing agents, therefore, the bodies 
of fishes will act nearly in the same way as the bodies and blood of 
rnimals ; 100 lbs., in decaying, produce 2J lbs of ammonia Hence 
4')0 lbs of fish rotted m compost are enough for an acre The great 
effect is due ';o the ammoniacal portion ; for it renders the her- 
bage dark-green, and starts it very rapidly One of the best com- 
posts is made as follows : Dried bog-earth, loam, or peat^ seven 
barrels ; hardwood ashes, two barrels ; fish, one barrel , slacked 
lime, one bush^ 1. Place a thick layer of the bog-earth on the bottom , 
on the top of this put a layer of the fish, then a sprinkling ojF lime, 
then a layer of ashes , on top of the ashes puta thick layer of bog« 
earth, loam, or peat ; then another thin layer offish, lime, and ashes, 
and so on till your materials are worked in •, then top off with a 
thick layer of the absorbents, to retain the fertilizing gases The 
decomposition of the fish will proceed very rapidly, and a very rich 
compost will be the result It should be shovelled over and over 
and thoroughly intermixed and pulverized. Put this on so as to 
have 400 lbs offish to the acre. It may be applied with the greatest 
benefit to com, turnips, potatoes, beans, &c., in the drill • and broad 
cast on the grass 

Superphosphate can be made from pogy-chum, or the refuse of 
other fish, after the oil is expressed, by dissolving in sulphuric acid, 
'and afterwards mixing with dry loam, precisely as directed for 
making superphosphate with bones Whale-oil or the oil of any 
fish, when made into a compost with loam, and a little lime or 



t^ARMERS' REOEIJ^Td. 



g'a 



gre«n oats, com 
trough the spring 
s remarks that his 
cow produces 3^ 
cords in all He 
^ 20 cords in all. 
forth five to eight 
to the conclusion 
her milk 
408T Nothing — 
!e, the body of a 
re by drawing it 
lace, but remove 
put down four or 
eon, and sprinkle 
«ly with sods or 
(riously added, 20 
twelve months, a 
se to put it upon. 
Her animals, but 
horse; and, if any 
ed carcass, shoot 

ANURB FROM FiBH 

ue to the animal 

armer is precisely 

of fibrin, the rest 

position to those 

pefore, the bodies 

dies and blood of 

ammonia Hence 

nacre The great 

enders the'her- 

of the best com- 

, or peaty seven 

barrel , slacked 

ih on the bottom , 

[rinkling ojF lime, 

[icklayerof bog« 

lime, and ashes, 

[n top off with a 

ing gases The 

and a very rich 

over and over 

this on so as to 

ith the greatest 

"rill • and broad 

lor the refuse of 

sulphuric acid, 

IS directed for 

the oil of any 

little lime or 



wood ashes, yields a very powerful manure, merely mixed with 
absorbent earth and applied at the end of the month. Impure whale- 
oil, at the rate of 40 gallons per acre, has produced a crop of 23^; 
tons of turnips per acre ; while on the same soil, and during the 
same season, it took 40 bushels of bone-dust to produce only 22 tong 
per acre. i 

AsHBS FROic Soil by Spontaneous Combustion.— Make your mound 
21 feet long by lOj feet wide. To fire, use 72 bushels of liic.e. First] 
a layer of dry 'sods or parings on which a quantity of lime is spread, I 
mixing soda with it ; then a covering of eight inches of sods, <m 
which the other half of the lime is spread, and covered a foot thick, ^ 
the height of the mound being about a yard. In twenty-.^'ou,: hours '■ 
it will take fire. The lime should be fresh from tbe kiln. It is 
better to suffer it to ignite itself than to effect it by the operation 
of water. When the fire is fairly kindled, fresh sods must be ap- ; 
plied ; but get a good body of ashes in the first {)lace. I think it^ 
may be fairly supposed that the lime adds full its worth to the 
quality of the ashes, and, when limestone can be got, I would ad- 
vise the burning a small quantity in the mounds, which would be 
a great improvement to the ashes, and would help to keep the fire 
in. , 

Substitutb fob Babn»manurb.— Dissolve a bushel of salt iu 
water enough to slack 5 or 6 bushels of lime. The best rule for pre- ! 
paring the compost heap is, 1 bushel of this lime to 1 loaa of, 
I swamp-muck, intimately mixed ; though 3 bushels to 5 loads makes 
a very good manure. In laying up the heap, let the layer of muck ■ 
and lime be thin, so that decomposition may be more rapid and ' 
complete. When lime cannot be got, use unleached ashes, — 3 or 4 ' 
bushels to a cord of muck. In a month or six weeks, overhaul and 
work over the heap, when it will be ready for use. Sprinkle the 
jgalt water on the lime as the heap goes up. j 

Shbep-Dipping Composition. — Water, 1 gal. ; benzine, 8 ounces ; 
Icayenne l>epper, 2 ounces. Mix ; make what quantity you 
[require, using these proportions. Dip your sheep and lambs in 
[the composition, and it will make short work of the vermin. / 

Oat ok Wheat Straw made equal to Hay. — Bring 10 gallons 

rater to a boiling heat ; take it off the fire, and add to it at once 

gallons of linseed unground ; let it remain till ft gets cold ; then 
empty the whole into a cask, containing 44 gallons of cold water, 
ma let it remain for forty-eight hours. At the end of that time. 
It will be reduced into a thin jelly, like arrowroot. Spreat out J 
Ion straw, and sprinkle it over regularly with the whole of the 
[iquid from the cask. The stock will eat it up as clean, and keep 
IS fat on it, quantity for quantity, as they would do on hay. 

Death for Vermin on Plants or ANiMALS.—Pour a gallon of 
)oiling water on one pound tobacco leaves, strain it in twenty 

linutes ; for vermin, on animals or plants, this decoction is certain 
leath. 

Remedy for (JmicuLio in Fruit trees.— Sawdust saturated in 
koal oil, and placed at the roots of the tree, will be a sure praven- 
Ve ; or. clear a circle around the tree from all '•ubbish ; fill up all 
Ittle holes and smooth off the giound for a distance of at least 3 

Bet each way from the tree, then place chips or small pieces of 



u 



farmers' receipts. 



wood oti"the erouud within the circle ; the curculio will take refViffe 
in large numbers below the chips, and you can pass around in the 
mornings and kill them off. 

Grafting Wax. — Rosin, 1 lb. ; bees-wax, 1 lb. ; with tallow or 
lard sufficient to soften until it can be readily applied with the 
hand ; melt. 

Dr. Colb's Kino op Oils. — 1 oz. green copperas; 2 oz. white 
Titriol , 2 oz. common salt ; 2 oz. linseed oil ; 8 oz. molasses. Boil 
over a slow fire fifteen minutes, in a pint of urine ; when almost 
cold, add 1 oz. of oil of vitriol and 4 oz of spirits turpentine. 
Apply to wounds with a feather A very powerful liniment. 

Sloan's Horsb Ointmrnt. — 4 oz rosm ; 4 oz. bees-wax ; lard, 8 
oz. ; honey, 2 oz.. Mix slowly and gently bring to a boil ; then add 
less than 1 pint spirits turpentine ; then remove, and ptir till cool. 
Unsurpassed for horse-flesh, cracked hoofs, human flesh, Ac. 

Mexican Mustang Linimknt.— Petroleum, olive oil, and car- 
bonate of ammonia, each equal parts ; and mix. It is one of the 
best liniments in use. 

Merchant's Gargling Oil.— Take 2 J gals, linseed oil ; 2J gals, 
spirits turpentine ; 1 gal, western petroleum ; 8 oz. liquor potass ; 
sap green. 1 oz. Mix all together, and it is ready for use. 

Arabian Condition Powders. — Ground ginger, 1 lb. ; sulphuret 
of antimony, 1 lb. ; powdered sulphur, 1 lb. ; saltpetre, 1 lb. Mix 
all together ; and administer in a mash, in such quantities as may 
be required. The best condition powder in existence. 

Blistering Liniment.— 1 part Spanish flies, finely powdered ; 3 
of lard ; and 1 of yellow rosin. Mix the lard and rosin together, 
and add the flies when the other ingredients begin to cool. To 
render it more active, add 1 pint spirits turpentine. 

Medicated Food for Horses and Cattle. — Take linseed cake 
and pulverize or grind it up in the shape of meal, and to every 50 
lbs. of this ingredient, add 10 lbs. Indian meal; 2 lbs, sulphuret of 
antimony ; 2 lbs. ground ginger, 1^ lbs. of saltpetre, and 2 lbs. 
powdered sulphur. Mix the whole thoroughly together, put up in 
neat boxes or packages for sale or otherwise as" desired, and you will 
have an article equal in value to " Thorley's Food," or almost any 
other preparation that can be got up for the purpose of fattening 
stock, or curing disease in every case when food or medicine can 
be of any use whatever. This article can be fed in any desired 
quantity, beginning with a few tablespoonfuls at a time, for a 
horso, mixing it with his grain, and in the same proportion to 
smaller animals, repeating the dose and increasing the quantity as 
the case may seem to require. 

Lotion for Mange. — Boil 2 oz. tobacco in 1 quart water ; strain ; 
add sulphur and soft soap, each 2 oz. 

For Strains and Swellings. — Strong vinegar saturated with 
common salt, used warm, is good for strains and reducing swel- 
lings. 1 oz. of white vitriol ; 1 oz. of green copperas ; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of gunpowder, all pulverized together, and dissolved in 1 quart 
of soft water, and used cold, rubbing in thoroughly, is one of the 
best applications known for reducing swellings. 

Hoof-Bound Wash. — Spirits turpentine, 4 oz. ; tar, 4 oz. ; whale- 
pil, 8 oz. Mix, and apply to the hoofs often. 



PARMER8* RECEIPTS. 



26 



will take refUge 
ass around in tna 

; with tallow or 
applied with the 

sras; 2 oz. white 
z. molasses. Boil 
ne; when almost 
pirits turpentine. 

1 liniment, 
aees-wai ; lard, 8 
3 a boil ; then add 
and ptir till cool, 
n flesh, &c. 

76 oil, and car- 
. It is one of the 

seed oil ; 2) gals. 

oz. liquor potass ; 

r for use. 

, 1 lb. ; sulphuret 

tpetre, 1 lb. Mix 

quantities as maj 

fnce. 

lely powdered ; 3 

d rosin together, 

gin to cool. To 

ake linseed cake 
and to every 50 
bs. sulphuret of 
letre, and 2 lbs. 
jether, put up in 
red, ana you will 
■ or almost any 
lose of fattening 
or medicine can 
in any desired 
a time, for a 
le proportion to 
the quantity as 

water ; strain ; 

saturated with 
reducing swel- 
ls ; 2 teaspoon- 
jlved in 1 quart 
Y, is one of the 

•, 4 oz. ; whale- 



Ho TouOHEN Hoofs.— Wash them IVequently in strong brine, and 
turn brine upon the bottoms, and soak a few minutes each time. 

Scratches.— Cut off the hair close, and wash the legs in strong 
soap-suds or urine, or wash with warm vinegar saturated with 
salt, and afterwards dress over with a small quantity of hog's 
lard. 

CouoH. — Quit feeding musty hay, and feed roots and laxative 
food. Sprinkle human urine on his fodder, or cut up cedar boughs 
and mix with his grain ; or boil a small quantity of flax-seed, and 
mix it in a mash of scalded bran, adding a few ounces of sugar, 
molasses, or honey. 'Administer lukewarm. If there should be 
any appearance of heaves, put a spoonful of ground ginger once 
per day in his provender, and allow him to drink freely of lime 
water. 

Split or Broken Hoop. — Let the blacksmith bore two holes on 
each side of the crack or split ; pass long nails through the holes, 
and clinch tight. After anointmg with the hoof-bound liquid, it 
will soon grow together. 

Colic Curb. — Bleed freely at the horse's mouth ; then take J lb. 
raw cotton, wrap it around a coal of fire, so as to exclude the air ; 
when it begins to smoke, hold it under his nose till he becomes 
easv. 

To CURB Distemper.— Take 11 gals, of blood from the neck vein ; 
then administer sassafras oil, IJ oz. . Cure, speedy and certain. 

Founder cured in 24 Hours. — Boil or steam stout oat-straw for 

half-an-hour, then wrap it around the horse's leg quite hot, cover 

up with wet woollen rags to keep in the steam ; in 6 hours renew 

I the application, take 1 gal. of blood from the neck vein, and give 

1 quart linseed oil. He may be worked next day. 

Curb for Staggers.— Give a mess twice a week, composed of 
I bran, 1 gal. j sulphur, 1 tablespoonful ; saltpetre^ I spoonful ; 
boiling sassafras tea, 1 quart; assafaetida, 1| oz. Keep the horso 
I from cold water for halra day afterwards. 

RiNG-BoNB AND Spavin. — Take sweet ©il, 4 oz. ; spirits turpen- 
[tine, 2 oz. ; oil of stone, 1 oz. Mix, and apply three times per day. 
If the horse is over four years oldj or in any case when this is not 
jsuflficient, in addition to it, you will fit a bar of lead just above it, 
jwiring the ends together, so it constantly wears upon the enlarge- 
jtnent ; and the two together will cure nine cases out of every ten, 
|ln six weeks. 

Poll Evil and Fistula.— Common potash dissolved in ^ pint 
lof water, 1 lb. ; add ^ oz. belladonna extract, and 1 oz gum arabic 
Idissolved in a little water ; work all into a paste with wheat flour, 
jand bottle up tight. Directions : wash the sores well with Castile 
soap-suds ; then apply tallow all around them. Next, press the 
ibove paste to the bottom of all the orifices ; repeat every two days 
till the callous fibrous base around the poll evil or fistula is com- 
pletely destroyed ; put a piece of oil-clotn over the sores, and after- 
wards heal lip with Sloan's Horse Ointment. 
To Tame Horses.- Take finely-grated horse castor, oils of rho- 
lium and cummin ; keep them in separate bottles well-corked ; 
put some of the oil cummin on your hand, and approach the horse 
)n the windy side. He will then move toward you. Then rub 



i 



m 



26 



FARMERS^ BEOEIPTS« 



so'rae of the cummin on his nose, give him a little of the castor on 
anything he likes, and get eight or ten drops oil rhodium on his 
tongue. You can then get him to do anything you like. Be kind 
and attentive to the animal, and your control is certain. 

Bbst Remedy roR Heaves. — Balsam of fir and balsam of copaiba, 
4 oz. each, and mix with calcined magnesia sufficiently thick to 
mak( it into balls; and give a middling-sized ball night and 
morning for a week or ten days. 

Curb for Bots in Horses. — Give the horse, first, 2 quarts of new 
milk, and 1 quart molasses; 15 minutes afterwards, give 2 
^luarts very strong sage tea ; 30 minutes after the tea. give 3 pints 
Cor enough to operate as physic), of curriers' oil. The molasses 
and milk cause tne bots to let go their hold, the tea puckers them 
up, and the oil carries them completely away. Cure certain, in 
the worst cases. 

Certain Ring-bone and Spavin Curb.— Venice turpentine and 
Spanish flies, of each 2 oz. ; euphorbium and aqua-ammonia, of 
each 1 oz. ; red precipitate, ^ oz. ; corrosive sublimate, i oz, ; 
lard, 1^ lbs. Pulverize all, and put into the lard ; simmer slowly 
over coals, not scorching or burning ; and pour oflf, free of sedi- 
ment. For ring-bones, cat off the hair, and rub the ointment well 
into the lumps once in 48 hours. For spa^ Ins, once in 24>hours for 
3 mornings. Wash well previous to each application with suds, 
rubbing over the place with a smooth stick, to squeeze out a thick, 
yellow matter. This has removed very large ring-bones. 

BoNB Spavins, FObnch Pastb.— $300 Rboiph. — Corrosive subli- 
mate, quicksilver, and iodine, of each 1 oz. Rub the quicksilver 
and iodine together ; then add the sublimate, and lastly the lard, 
rubbing them thoroughly. Shave off the hair the size of the bone 
enlargement; grease all around it, but not where t'ae hair is 
staved off, this prevents the action of the medicine, except on the 
spavin. Then rub in as much of the paste as will lie on a 3 cent 
piece, each morning, for 3 or 4 mornings. In from 7 to 8 days, 
the whole spavin will com© out; then wash the wound with suds 
for an hour or so, to remove the poisonous effects of the paste ; 
afterwards heal up the sore with any good healing salve, or 
Sloan's Horse Ointment, as per recipe above, keeping the sore 
covered while it is healing up 

Another very Valuable Rbcipb for Rino-Bonb. — Pulverized 
cantharides, oils of spike, origanum, amber, cedar, Barbadoes tar, 
and British oil, of each 2 oz ; oil of wormwood, 1 oz. ; spirits 
turpentine, 4 oz. ; common potash, J oz. ; nitric acid, 6 oz. j 
sulphuric acid, 4 oz. ; lard, 3 lbs. Melt the lard, and slowly add 
the acids ; stir well, and add the other articles, stirring till cold ; 
clip off the hair, and apply by rubbing and heating in. In about 
3 days, or when it is done running, wash off with soap-suds, and 
apply again. In old cases, it may take 3 or 4 weeks ; but, in 
recent cases, 2 or 3 applications have cured. 

Another. — Pulverized cantharides, oils of origanum and amber, 
and spirits turpentine, of each 1 oz. ; olive oil, J oz. ; sulphuric 
acid, 3 drams ; put all, except the acid, into alcohol ; stir the mix- 
ture, add the acid slowly, and continue to stir till the mixture 
ceases to smoke ; then bottle for use. Apply to ring-bone or spavin 



FARMERS RECEIPTS. 



21 



with a sponge tied on the end of a stick, as long as it is absorbed 
into the parts ; twenty- four hours after, grease well with lard ; and 
in twenty -four hours more, wash off well with soap-suds. One ap- 
plication is generally sufficient for spavins, but may need two ; 
ring-tones, always two or three applications, three or four days 
apart, which prevents loss of hair. This will stop all lameness, 
but does .not remove the lump. 

Splint a:<d Spavin Liniment. — Oil of origanum, 6 oz. ; gum cam- 
phor, 2 oz. ; xoercurial ointment, 2 oz. ; iodine ointment, 1 oz. ; melt 
by putting all into a wide-mouthed bottle, and setting it in a kettle 
of hot water. Apply it to bone spavins or splints, twice daily, for 
four or five days, and a cure is guaranteed. 

Liniment for Sweeny. — Alcohol and spirits turpentine, of each, 
8 oz. ; camphor-gum, pulverized cantharides, and capsicum, of each 
1 oz. ; oil of spike, 3 oz. ; mix. Bathe this liniment in with a hot 
iron, and a certain cure is sure to follow. 

For Looseness or Scouring in Horses or Cattle. — Tormentil 
root, powdered. Dose for a horse or cow, I to IJ oz. It may be 
stirred into 1 pint of milk, and given ; or it may be steeped in 1«^ 
pints of milk, then given from three to six times daily, until cured. 
Scours and Pin- Worms in Horses and Cattle. — Wnite-ash bark 
burnt into ashes, and made into a rather strong lye ; then mix ^ 
pint ot it with 1 pint warm water, and give all two or three times 
daily. This will certainly carry off the worms, which are the 
cause, in most instances, of scours and looseness. 

English Stable Liniment, very strong. — Oil of spike, aqua-am- 
monia, and oil of turpentine, each 2 oz. ; sweet oil, and oil of amber, 
each 1^ oz. ; oil of origanum, 1 oz. Mix. 

Colic curb for Horses and Persons. — Spirits turpentine, 3 oz. ; 
laudanum, 1 oz. ; mix ; and for a horse give all for a dose, by put- 
ting it into a bottle with half a pint of warm water. If relief is not 
obtained in an hour, repeat the dose, adding half an ounce of the 
best powdered aloes, well dissolved. Cure, certain. 

For Persons, a dose would be from 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls in warm 
tea ; children or weak persons^ less. 

Liniment fob fifty cents per gallon. — Best vinegar, 2 <}uarts ; 
pulverized saltpetre, ^ lb. : mix, and set in a cool place till dis- 
solved. Invaluable for old swellings, sprains, bruises, &c. 

Shoeing Horses. — A smith who shod for the hunt, and who said 
that he would have to shut up shop if a shoe was lost, as it might 
cause the loss of a horse worth a thousand pounds, fastened the 
shoe as follows : — As he drove the nails, he merely Dent the points 
down to the hoof, without twisting them off, as the usual practice 
is; he then dfovi the nails home, and clinched them. He then 
twisted off the nails, and filed them lightly to smooth them, thus 
having, as he remarked, a clinch and rivet to hold the nails. 

Horse Ail. — Make a slow fire ot old shoes, rags, herbs, &c. 
When fired a little, smother so as to make a great smoke and steam ; 
then set a barrel without heads, over the fire, and hold the horse's 
E head down in the barrel, and smoke him well. This will soon pro- 
duce a copious running at the nose, and he will be so well pleased 
that he will voluatarily hold his head in the smoke. Continue 
this half an hour or more daily, meanwhile give him potatoes and 



28 



farmers' receipts. 



1l i 



4 ' 

'I ' 



warm bran mashes, and gentle physic, if there be much costiveness 
which the laxative food will not remove. If he has much fever treat 
himior that. 

Saddli and Harness Galls, &c. — White lead and linseed oil, 
mixed as for paint, is almost unrivalled for healing saddle, har- 
ness, or collar galls and bruises. Try it, applying with a brush. 
It soon forms an air-tight coating and soothes the pain, power- 
fully assisting nature. 

Grease Heel. — Lye made from wood-ashes, and boil white-oak 
bark in it till it is quite strong, both in lye and bark-ooze: when 
it is cold, it is fit for use. Wash off the horse's legs with Castile 
soap ; when dry, apply the .above lye with a swab fastened on a 
lonfT stick to keep out of his reach, as the smart caused by the 
application might make him let fly without much warning ; but it 
is a sure cure, only it brings off the hair. To restore the hair after 
the cure is effected, make and apply a salve by stewing elder 
bark in old bacon ; then form the salve by adding a little resin, 
according to the amount of oil when stewed, or I lb. resin to each 
pound of oil. 

Valuable Rembdt for Heaves. — Calcined magnesia, balsam of 
fir, balsam 7opaiba, of each 1 oz. ; spirits turpentine, 2 oz. ; put 
them all into 1 pint best cider vinegar ; give for a dose, 1 table- 
ST)oonful In his feed^once a day for a week ; then every other day 
for 2 or 3 months. Wet his hay with brine, and also his other 
feed. He will cough more at first, but looser and looser till cured. 

To Distinguish and curb Distemper. — Wet up bran with rather 
strong lye ; if not too strong, the horse will eat it greedily. If 
they have the distemper, a free discharge from the nostrils, and 
ft consequent cure, will be the result, if continued a few days ; but, 
if only a cold, with swellings of the glands, no change will be dis- 
covered. 

Remedy for Founder. — Draw about 1 gallon blood from the 
neck ; then drench the horse with linseed oil, 1 quart ; now rub 
the fore-legs long and well with water as hot as can be borne 
without scalding. 

Physic-Ball fob Horses. — Barbadoes aloes, from 4 to 5 or 6 
drams (according to size and strength of the horse) ; tartrate of 
potassa, 1 dram ; gingvjr and Castile soap, each, 2 drams ; oil of 
anise, or peppermint, 'iO drops ; pulverize and make all into one 
ball, with thick gum solution. Feed by giving scalded bran 
instead of oats, for two days before giving the physic, and duiing 
its operation. 

Physio for Cattle. — Take half only of the dose above for a 
horse, and add to it glauber-salts, 8 oz. ; dissolve all in gruel, 1 
quart, and give as a drench. 

Hoop- ail in Sheep. — Muriatic acid and butter of antimony, of 
each 2 oz. ; white vitriol, pulverized, 1 oz. ; mix. Lift the foot, 
find, drop a little of it on the bottom, only once or iwice a week. 
It kills the old hoof, and a new one soon takes its place. 

To Cultivate Tobacco. — To raise tobacco, select a sheltered 
situation, where the young plants can receive the full force of the 
gun ; bum over the surface of the ground early in spring (new 
land is best), rake it well, and sow the seeds : have a dry, mellow. 



FARMERS KEOZIPTS. 



29 



earning ; but it 



lesia, balsam of 
tine, 2 oz. ; put 
a dose, 1 table- 



)lood from the 
uart ; now rub 
can be borne 



drams ; oil of 



rich soil, and after a tthower, when the plants have got leaves the 
size of a quarternlollar, transplant as yon would cabbage plants, 3) 
feet apart, and weed out carefully afterwards. BretUc off the 
suckers from the foot-stalks, as they appear; also the tops of 
the plants when they are well advanced, — say, about 3 feet nigh, 
— except those designed for seed, which should be the largest 
and best plants. Tne ripeness ot tobacco is known by small 
dusky spots appearing on the leaves. The plants should then be 
cut near the roots, on the morning of a day of sunshine, and 
should lie singly to wither. When sufficiently withered, place the 
plants in close heaps, under cover, to sweat 48 hours or more ; 
tlien hang them up under cover to dry. 

To Fresbrvb Potatobs from Rot, — Dust over the floor of the 
bin with lime, and put in about 6 or 7 inches of potatoes, and dust 
with lime as before, then more potatoes, using about 1 bushel of 
lime to 40 bushels of potatoes. The lime improves the flavor of 
the potatoes, and effectually kills the fungi which causes the rot. 

An old veteran farmer, with 63 years' experience, has successi- 
fully fought the potatoe rot Cn the ground, as follows. He plants 
them in the latter part of April, or beginning of May, and in the 
old of the moon. When six inches high^hey are plastered and 
dressed out nicely. Now for the secret. When blossoming, take 2 
parts plaster, and 1 part fine salt, mix well together, and put 1 
large spoonful of this compound as near the centre of each hill 
as possible. When ripe, take them out of the ground, have them 
diT when put in the cellar, and keep them in a dry, cool place. 

Fackino Fruits for Long Distakces. — Take a box of the proper 
size, soft paper, and sweet bran. Place a layer of bran on the 
bottom, then each bunch of grapes is held by the hand over a 
sheet of the paper ; the four corners of the paper are brought up 
to the stalk and nicely secured ; then laid on its side in the box, 
and so on until the first layer is finished. Then dust on a layer of 
bran, giving the box a gentle shake as you proceed. Begin the 
second layer as the first, and so on until the whole is full. The 
bloom of the fruit is thus preserved as fresh at the end of a 
journey of 500 miles as if they were newly taken from the tree. 
Never fails to preserve grapes, peaches, apricots and other fruit. 

To Sprout Onions. — Pour hot water on the seed, let it remain 2 
or 3 seconds, and they will immediately sprout, and come up 
much earlier. 

To Renew Old Orchards.— Early in the spring, plough the 
entire orchard, and enrich the whole soil with a good dressing of 
compost of manure, swamp-muck, and lime ; scrape off the old 
bark with a deck-scraper, or a sharp hoe ; apply half a bushel of 
lime, and the same of ground charcoal round each tree. Then 
apply diluted soft soap, or strong soap-suds, on the trunks and 
limbs, as high as a man can reach. When the trees are in' full 
bloom, throw over them a good proportion of fine slacked lime, 
and you will reap abundant fruits from your labors. 

To Destroy the Moth or Miller. — Dr. Waterman sayi, " I took 
tMLO white dishes (because white attracts their attention in the 
night) or deep plates, and placed them on the top of the hives, 
and filled them about half-full of sweetened vinegar. The nejcf 



30 



farmers' reoeiftb. 



i'! ' . 



ill 



morning I had about 60 millers caught; the second night I caught 
50 more ; the third night, being cold, I did not sret anv ; the fourth 
night, being very warm, I caught about 400 ; the fifth night I got 
about 200.'^ 

To Kbbp Milk Swbbt. and Swbbtbn Sour Milk.— Put into the 
milk a small quantity oi carbonate of magnesia. 

To MAKB Chbap and Good Vinboab.— To eight gallons of clear 
rain-watev, add 6 quarts of molasses; turn the mixture into a 
clean, tight cask, shake it well two or three times, and add 1 pt. 
of good yeast. Place the cask in a warm place, and in ten or 
lifteen days add a sheet of common wrapping-paper, smeared with 
molasses, and torn into narrow strips; and you will have good 
vinegar. The paper is necessary to form the " mother," or life of 
the liquor. 

Mr. CuLLBv'a Rbd Salvb, to curb thb Rot in Shbbp.— -Mix 4 
oz. of the best honey, 2 oz. of burnt alum reduced to powder, and 
^ a pound of Armenian bole, with as much train or fish oil as will 
convert these ingredients into the consistence of a salve. The 
honey must first be gradually dissolved, when the Armenian bolo 
must be stirred in ; auerwards the alum and train-oil are to be added. 

To iMPROVB THH WooL ov Shbbp, BY Smbarino. — Immediately 
after the sheep are jhorn, soak the roots of the wool that remains 
all over with til, or butter, and brimstone ; and, 3 or 4 days after- 
ward, wfteh them with salt and water. The wool of next season will 
not be much finer, but the quantity will be in greater abundance. 
It may be depended upon, that the sheep will no* be troubled with 
tlie scab or vermin that year. Salt water is a safe and effectual 
remedy against maggots. 

To Mark Shekp without injury to the Wool. — To 30 spoonfuls 
of linseed oil, add 2 oz. of litharge, and 1 oz of lampblack; boil 
all together, and mark the sheep therewith. 

To Prevent thb Fly in Tux.i<ip8, — Prom experiments lately 
made, it has been ascertained that lime sown by hand, or dis- 
tributed by a machine, is an infallible protection to turnips against 
the ravages of this destructive insect. It should be applied as 
soon as the turnips come up, and in the same daily rotation in 
which they were sown. The lime should be slacked immediately 
before it is used, if the air be not sufficiently moist to render tha^ 
operation unnecessary. 

Coloring for Cheese. — The coloring for cheese is, or at least 
should be, Spanish annotto; but, as soon as coloring became 
general in this country, a color of an adulterated kind was exposed 
for sale in almost every shop. The weight of a guinea and a half 
of real Spanish annotto is sufficient f»r a cheese of fifty pounds' 
weight. If a considerable part of the cream of the night's milk 
be taken for butter, more coloring will be requisite. The leaner 
the cheese is, the more coloring it requires. The manner of using 
annotto is to tie up in a linen rag the quantity deemed sufficient, 
and put it into i pt. of warm water over night. This infusion is 
put into the tub of milk in the morning with the rennet infusion ; 
dipping the rag into the milk, and rubbing it against the palm of 
the hand as long as any color runs out. The yolk of egg wiH 
color butter, 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS* RECEIPTS. 



m^ 



B, and in ten or 



CoMPOPiTiON FOB Drtvino OUT RATA, iTO. — KecD OD hand A 
quantity of chloride of lime. The whole setret consists in scatter- 
\nft, it dry all around their haunts and into thoir holes, and they 
will leave at once, or a liberal decoction of coal tar placed in the 
entrance of their holes will do as well. 

How TO FORM Springs. — The finest springs can bo made by boring-, 
which is performed bv forcing an iron rod into the earth by ilM 
own weight, turning it round, and forcing it up and down by a 
spring-pole contrivance. The water will sometimes spout up neve- 
ral feet above the surface. Lead pipes are put down in the hole 
after the water is found. Depressed situations, having a southern 
exposure, with rising ground towards the north, are the best 
situations in the United iStates or the Canadas to find water. 

To Bdrn Limb without a Kiln. — Malie a pyramidal pile of large 
limestones, with an arched furnace next the ground for putting in 
the fuel, leaving a narrow vent or funnel at the top ; now cover the 
whole pile with earth or turf, in the way that charcoal heaps are 
covered, and put in the fire. The heat will be more completely 
diffused through the pile, if the aperture in the top is partially 
closed. Produces a superior article of lime. 

Eyb Watbb fob Horsbs and Cattle.— Alcohol, 1 tablespoonful ; 
extract of lead, 1 teaspoonful ; rain water, \ pint. 

To Destroy Moss on Trees. — Paint them with white-wash made 
of quick lime and wood ashes. 

To Protect Fruit-trees from attack of Mice, etc — Tar, 1 
part ; tallow. 3 parts ; mix. Apply hot to the bark of the tree with 
a paint brusn. 

To Prevent Decay of Farm Implements. — When not in use, 
have them sheltered from the sun, wind, rain, and snow. By this 
means, sleighs, waggons, carts, ploughs, threshing-machmes, har- 
rows, and the like, would last twice as long as they would if left in 
the open air, swelling from moisture one week, and shrinking the 
next, "from tne influence of the sun and wind. 

OiLiNO OB OLBANiNa OLD Oarriagi-tops. — Enamel leather-tops 
should be first washed with Castile soap and warm water, then 
oiled with neat's foot oil ; or sweet oil and a coat of enamel varnish 
put on, the leather will look like new. Dashes may be cleaned in 
the same manner, but varnish color is not very beneficial to patent 
leather ; however, when old and cracked, it may bo colored to 
improve the appearance. 



DYERS, BLEACHERS, AND CLOTHIERS' 
DEPARTMENT; 

Dyeing.— It may be necessary to remark, and I do it here once 
for all, that every article to be dyed, as well as everything used 
about dyeing, should be perfectly clean. 

In the next place, the article to be dyed should be well scoured 
in soap, and then the soap rinsed out. It is also an advantage to 
dip the article you wish to dye into warm water, just before put- 



82 



DTEBS AND BLEACHERS* RECEIPTS. 



!!f 



ting it into the alum or other preparation ; through neglect of this 
precantion, it is nothing uncommon to have tlie ffoods, or yarn 
spotted. Sqft water should always be used if possible, and suffi- 
cient to cover the goods handsomely. 

As soon as an article is dyed it should be aired a little, then well 
rinsed, and afterwards hung up to dry. 

When dyeing or scouring silk or merino dresses, care should be 
taken not to wring them ; for this has a tendency to wrinkle and 
break the silk. 

In putting the dresses and shawls out to dry, that have been 
dyed, they should be hung up by the edge so as to dry evenly. 

Chromi Black. — For Woollen Goods. — For 6 Iba. of goods, 
blue vitriol, 6 oz. ; boil it a few minutes ; then dip the goods 3 of 
an hour, airingj often ; take out the goods, and mnke a dye with 
logwood, 3 lbs. ; boil j^ hour ; dip ^ of an hour, and air the g;oods, 
and dip ij of an hour more. Wash in strong suds. This will not 
impart any of its color in fulling, nor fade by exposure to the sum. 

Black ON Wool. — For Mixtures.— For 10 lbs. of wool, bichro- 
mate of potash, 4 oz. ; ground aigal, 3 oz. ; boil together, and put 
in the wool ; stir well, and let it remain in the dye 4 hours. Then 
take out the woolj rinse it slightly in clear water ; then make a 
new dye, into which put logwood, 3^ lbs. Boil 1 hour, and add 
chamber-lye, 1 pt., and let the wool lie in all night. Wash in clear 
water. 

Stbbl mixed.— Dark.— Black wool, it may be natural or colored, 
10 lbs. ; white wool, 1^ lbs. Mix evenly together, and it will be 
beautiful. 

Sndpf Brown.— Dark, for Cloth or Wool. — For 5 lbs. goods, 
camwood, 1 lb. ; boil it 15 minutes, then dip the goods for I of an 
hour; take out the goods, and add to the dye, fustic, 2 J lbs. ; boil 
10 minutes, and dip the goods \ hour ; then add blue vitriol. I oz. ; 
copperas, 4 oz. ; dip again ^ hour ; if not dark enough, add more 
copperas. It is dark and permanent. 

WiNB Color. — For B lbs. goods, camwood, 2 lbs. ; boil 15 min- 
utes ; then dip the goods for ^ hour ; boil again, ana dip ^ hour ; 
then darken with blue vitriol, 1^ oz. ; if not dark enough, add 
copperas, J oz. 

Maddbr Red. — To each lb. of goods, alum, 5 oz. ; red, or cream 
of tartar. 1 oz. ; put in the goods, and bring your kettle to a boil 
for J an nour ; then air them, boil ^ hour longer ; then empty your 
ketue, and fill with clean water ; put in bran, 1 pk. j make it 
milk warm, and let it stand until the bran rises ; then skim off the 
bran, and put in madder, ^ lb. ; put in your goods, and heat slowly 
until it boils and is done. Wash in strong suds. 

Grbbn.— On Wool or Silk, with Oak BARK.^Make a strong 
yellow dye of yellow oak and hickory bark in equal quantities. 
Add the extract of indigo, or chemic (which see), 1 tablespoon at 
a time, untilyou get the shade of color desired. 

Grbbn.— With Fustic— For each lb. of goods, fustic, 1 lb. : with 

alum, 3^ oz. Steep until the strenprth is out, and soak the goods 

•therein until a good yellow is obtained ; then remove the chips, 

and add extract of indigo or phemic, 1 tablespoon at a time, until 

the color suits. 



DTIRS AND BLEACHERS* RECEIPTS. 



83 



iitural or colored, 
er, and it will be 



3. ; boil 15 min- 



BliUi. — QoiCK PR0CK88.-rFor 2 lbs. ot goods, alnnj, 5 oz. ; cream 
of tartar, 3 oz. ; boil the goods in this for 1 hour ; then throw the 
goods into warm water, which has more or less of the extract of 
indigo in it, according to the depth of color desired, and boil again 
until it suits, adding more of the blue if needed. It is quick and 
permanent. 

Stocking-yark, or Wool to color. — Bitwein a Blub amd 
Pdrplb. — For 5 lbs. of wool, bichromate of potash, 1 or.. ; 
alum, 2 oz. : dissolve them, and bring the water to a boil, putting 
in the wool, and boiling 1 hour; then throw away the dye. and 
make another dje with logwood chips, 1 lb. ; or extract ot log- 
wood, 2| oz. ; and boil 1 hour. This also works very prettily on 
silk. 

N.B.— Whenever you make a dye with logwood chips, either 
boil the chips j an hour and pour off the dye, or tie up the chips 
in a bag, and boil with the wool or other goods ; or take 21 oz. of 
the extract in place of 1 lb. of the chips ; this is less trouble, and 
generally the better plan. In the above recipe, the more logwood 
that is used the darker will be the shade. 

Scarlet with Cochineal.— For Yark or Cloth. — For 1 lb. of 
goods, cream of tartar, i oz. ; cochineal, well pulverized, \ oz. ; 
muriate of tin. 2^ oz. ; then boil up the dye, and enter the goods ; 
work them briskly for 10 or 15 minutes, after which boil 1^ hoars, 
stirring the goods plowly while boiling ; wash in clear water ana 
dry in the shade. 

Fink. — For 3 lbs. of goods, alum, 3 oz. ; boil and dip the goods 1 
hour; then add i ; the dye, cream of tartar, 4 oz.; cochineal, well 
pulverized, 1 oz. ; boil well, and dip the goods while boiling, until 
the color suits. 

Oranob. — For 6 lbs. goods, muriate of tin, 6 tablespoons ; argal, 
4 oz. ; boil and dip 1 hour ; then add to the dye, fustic, 2 J lbs. ; 
boil 10 minutes, and dip | hour ; and add again to the dye, madder, 
1 teacup ; dip again ^ hour. ' 

N.B. — Cochineal, in place of madder, makes a much brighter 
color, which should be added in small quantities until pleased. 
About 2 oz. 

Lao Red. — For 5 lbs. goods, argal, 10 oz. ; boil a few minutes; 
then mix fine ground lac, 1 lb., with muriate of tin, 1\ lbs.; and 
let them stand 2 or 3 hours ; then add half of the lac to the argal 
dye, and dip i hour ; then add the balance of the lad, and dip again 
\ hour , keep the dye at a boiling heat, until the last half hour, 
when the dye may be cooled off. 

Purple.— For 6 lbs. goods, cream of tartar, 4 oz. ; alum, 6 oz. ; 
cochineal, well pulverized, 2 oz. ; muriate of tin, h teacup. Boil 
the cream of tartar, alum, and tin, 15 minutes ; then put in the 
cochineal, and boil 5 minutes ; dip the goods 2 hours ; then make 
a new dye with alum, 4 oz. ; Brazil wood, 6 oz.; logwood, 14 oz. : 
muriate of tin, I teacup, with a little chemic ; work again until 
pleased. 

Silver Drab.— Light.— For 5 lbs. goods, aium, 1 small teaspoon, 
and logwood about the same amount ; boil well together, then dip 
the goods 1 hour ; if not dark enough, add in "^ual quantities alum 
H&d logwood, until suited. n 



S'* 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS* RECEIPTS. 



Slatr on Woollbn or Cotton. — With Bebch Bark. — Boil the 
bark in an iron ketUe, skim out the chips after it has boiled suf- 
ficiently, and then add copperas to set the dye. If you wish it 
very dftrk, add more copperas. This is excellent for stockings. 

Extract of indioo or GnBMic. — To Makh.— For good chemic or 
extract of indigo, take of vitriol, J lb., and stir it into indigo, finely 
ground, 2 oz., continuing the stirring at first for ^ hour ; now cover 
over, and stir 3 or 4 times daily for 2 or 3 days ; then put in a 
crumb of saleratus, and stir it up, and, if it foams, put in more and 
stir, and add as long as it foams ; the saleratus neutralizes any 
excess of acid ; then put into a glass vessel, and cork up tight. It 
improves by standing. Druggists keep this prepared. 

W ooL,— To CLEANSE. — Make a liquid of water, 8 parts, and urine, 
1 pirt ; heat it as hot as you can bear the hand in it ; then put 
in the wool, « little at a time, so as not to have it crowd; let 
it remain in for 15 minutes; take it out over a basket to drain; 
then rinse in running water, and spread it out to dry; thus 
proceed in the same liquor; when it gets reduced, fill it up in 
the same proportions, Keeping it at hand heat all the time, not 
using any soap. 

Dark Colors. — To extract, and insert Light. — This recipe is 
calculated for carpet rags. In the first place, let the rags be 
-cashed clean ; the black or brown rags can be colored red, or 
)urple, at the option of the dyer ; to do this, take, for every 5 
.hs. black or brown rags, muriate of tin, I lb.; and the lac. J 
lb., mixed with the same, as for the lac red ; dip the goods in 
this dyo 2 hours, boiling ^ of the time ; if not red enough, add 
more Mn and lac. The goods can then be made a purple by 
adding a little logwood; be careful, and put in but a small 
handful, as more can be added if not enough. White rags 
mafc:e a beautiful appearance 'i a carpet, by tying them in the 
skein,^ and coloring them rea, green, or purple ; gray rags will 
take a very good green ; th^ coloring will be in proportion to 
the darkness of mix. 

Black. — For 5- lbs. goods, sumach, wood and bark together, 
3 lbs. ; boil J liour, and let the goods steep 12 hours ; then dip 
in lime water, ^ hour ; then take out the goods, and let them 
drip an hour; now add to the sumach liquor, copperas, 8 oz., 
and clip another hour; then run them through the tub of lime- 
water again for 15 minutes; now make a new dye with log- 
wood, 2^ lbs., by boiling 1 hour, and dip again 3 hours* now 
add bichromate of potash, 2 oz,, to the logwood dye, and dip 
one hour. Wash in clear cold water, and dry in the shade. 
You may say this is doing too much. You cannot get a per- 
manent black on cotton with less labor. 

Sky Blub.— For 3 lbs. goods, blue vitriol, 4 oz. ; boil a few 
minutes ; then dip the goods 3 hours, after which pass theta 
through strong lime-water. You can make this color a beautiful 
brown by putting the goods through a solution of prussiate of 
p otaah. 

Lime-Watir and Strong Limb-Watbr.— For Coloring. — Lime- 
water is made by putting stone lime 1 lb., and strong lime- 
water, 1^ lbs., into a pail of water, slacking, stirring, and letting 



DTER8 AND BLEAOHERS' BEOEIPTS^v 



^ 



ur : now cover 



>ark together, 
iTB ; then dip 



it stand until it becomes clear, then turn into a tub of water, in 
which aip the goods. 

Bldb on Cotton or Linbn.— "With Logwood.— In all cases, if 
now, they should be boiled in strong soap-suds or weak ^e, 
and rinsed clean ; then for cotton, 5 lbs., or linen, 3 lbs., take 
bichromate of potash, | lb. ; put in the goods, and dip 2 hours ; 
then take out^ rinse ; make a dye with logwood, 4 lbs. ; dip in 
this 1 hour, air, and let stand in the dye 3 or 4 hours, or till 
the dye is almost cold ; wash out, and dry. 

Blub on Cotton. — Without Logwood. — For 5 lbs. of rags, cop- 
peras, 4 oz. ; boil and dip 15 minutes ; then dip in strong suds, and 
back to the dye 2 or 3 times ; then make a dye with prussiate of 
potash, 1 oz. ; oil of vitriol, 5 tablespoons ; boil 30 minutes, and 
rinse ; then dry. 

Grbbn. — If the cotton is new, boil in weak lye or strong suds ; 
then wash, and dry ; give the cotton a dip in the home-made blue 
dye-tub until blue enough is obtained to make the green as dark 
as required, take out, dry, and rinse the goods a little ; then make 
a dye with fustic, I lb. ; logwood, 3 oz., to each 1 lb. rf goods, by 
boiling the dye 1 hour ; when cooled so as to bear the haft4, put in 
the cotton, move briskly a few minutes, and let lie in 1 hour ; take 
out, and let it thoroughly drain : dissolve, and add to the dye, for 
each lb. of cotton, blue vitriol, ioz., and dip another hour ; wring 
out, and let dry in the shade, ay adding or diminishing the log- 
wood and fustic, any shade of green may oe obtained. 

Yellow. — For 5 lbs. of goods, sugar of lead, 7 oz. ; dip the 

foods 2 hours ; make a new dye with oichromate of potash, 4 oa. ; 
ip until the color suits, wring out, and dry ; if not yellow enough, 
repeat the operation. 

Orangb. — For 5 lbs. of goods, sugar of lead, 4 oz. : boil • few 
minutes, and when a little cool put In the goods, dip 2 hours, wring 
out; make a new dye with bichromate of potash, 8 oz. ; madder, 
2 oz. ; dip until it suits ; if the color should be too red, take oflF a 
^small sample, and dip it into lime- water, when the choice can be 
taken of the sample dipped in the lime or the original color. 

RpD. — Take muriate of tin, J of a tea-cup ; add sufficient water 
to cover the goods well^ bring it to a boiling heat, putting in the 
goods 1 hour, stirring often ; take out the ffoods, and empty the 
kettle, and put in clean water, with nic-wood, 1 lb., steeping it for 
I hour, at hand heat ; then put in the eoods, and increase the heat 
for 1 hour, not bringing to a boil at all, stir the goods, and dip an 
hour as before ; wash without soap. 

Muriatb op Tin. — Tin Liquor. — If druggists keep it, it is best 
to purchase of them already made ; but if you preier, proceed as 
follows ; Get at a tinner a shop, block tin ; put it in a shovel, and 
melt it. After it is melted, pour it from the height of 4 or 5 feet 
into a pail of clear water. The object of this is to hftve the tin in 
small particles, so that the acid can dissolve it. Take it out of 
^he water and dry it ; then put it into a strong glass bottle ; pour 
over it muriatic acid, 12 oz. ; then slowly add sulphuric acid, 8 oz. 
The acid should be added about a tablespoon at a time, at inter- 
vals of 5 or 8 minutes ; for if you add it too rapidly you run th? 
risk of breaking the bottle by neat. After you have all the acid 



d6 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS* RECEIPTS. 



in, let the bottle stand until the ebullition subsides ; then stop it 
up with a bees' -wax or gltiss stopper, and set it away ; and it will 
keep good for a year or more, or will be fit for use in 24 hours. 

Gbebn. — Very Handsome with Oak Bark. — For 1 lb. of silk, 
yellow oak bark, 8 oz. ; boil it ^ hour ; turn off the liquor from 
the bark, and add alum, 6 oz , let stand until cold ; while this dye 
is being made, color the goods in the blue dve-tub, a light blue ; 
drv, and wash ; then dip m the alum and bark dye ; if it does not 
tate well, warm the dye a little 

Green or Yellow — On Silk or Wool, in Five to Fifteen 
Minutes. — For 5 lbs. of goods, black oak bark or peach leaves, ^ 
peck ; boil well ; then take out the bark or leaves, and add muri- 
ate of tin, ^ teacup, stirring well ; then put in the goods and 
stir them round, and it will dye a deep yellow in from 5 to 15 
minutes, according to the strength ot the bark; take out tha 
goods, rinse, and dry immediately. 

N.B.— For a green, add to the above dye extract of indigo, or 
chemic, 1 tablespoon only at a time, and work the goods 5 min- 
utes, and air; if not sufficiently dark, use the same amount of 
chemic as before, and work again until it suits. 

Mulberry. — For 1 lb. of silk, alum, 4 oz. ; dip 1 hour ; wash 
out, and make a dye with Brazil wood, 1 oz ; and logwood, i oz. ; 
by boiling together; dip in this J hour, then add more Brazil 
wood and logwood, in equal proportions, until the color is dark 
enough. 

Black. — Make a weak dye as you would for black on woollens, 
work the goods in bichromate of potash, at a little below boiling 
heat, then dip in the logwood in the same way ; if colored in tlie 
blue vitriol dye, use about the same heat. 

Spots — To Remove and Prevent when Coloring Black on 
Silk or Woollen. — N.B. In dyeing silk or woollen goods, it they 
should become rusty or spotted, all that is necessary is to make a 
weak lye, and have it scalding hot, and put your goods in for 15 
minutes ; or throw some ashes into your dye, and run your goods^ 
in it 5 minutes, and they will come out a jet black, and an even 
color. 

Light Chemic Blub. — For cold water, 1 gal.; dissolve alum, 
tablespoon, in hot water, 1 teacup, and add to it; then ad 
chemic. 1 teaspoon at a time, to obtain the desired color ; the 
more cnemic that is used, the darker will be the color. 

Purple. — For 1 lb. of silk : having first obtained a light blue by 
dipping in the home-made blue dye-tub, and dried, dip in alum, 4 
oz. ; to sufficient water to cover, when a little warm ; if the color 
is not full enough, add a little chemic. 

Yellow. — For 1 lb. of silk, alum, 3 oz. ; sugar of lead, | oz. ; 
immerse the goods in the solution over night ; take out, drain, and 
make a new dye with fustic, 1 lb. : dip until the required color is 
obtained. 

N.B. — The yellow or green, for wool, works equally well on silk. 

Orange. — Take annotto and soda, and add in equal quantities, 
accordiug to the amount of goods and darkness of the color 
wanted, say 1 oz. of each, to each pound of silk, and repeat as 
desired. 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS' RECEIPTS. 



37 



then stop it 
and it will 
i hours, 
lb. of silk, 
liquor from 
lile this dye 
light blue ; 
it does not 

TO Fifteen 
ch leaves,^ 
I add mun- 
goods and 
•om 5 to 15 
ike out thd 

f indigo, or 

oods 5 min- 

amount of 

hour ; wash 
wood, i oz. ; 
more Brazil 
olor is dark 

m woollens, 
ow boiling 
ored in the 

Black on 
)ods, it they 

to make a 

is in for 15 

your goods, 

id an even 

ve alum, i 
add 



then 
color j 



the 



fht blue by 
in alum, 4 
f the color 



ead, I oz. ; 
drain, and 
ed color is 

irell on silk. 

quantities, 

the color 

repeat as 



Crimson.— For 1 lb. of silkj alum, 3 oz. ; dip at hand-heat, I 
hour ; take out and drain, while making a new dye, by boiling, 
10 minutes, cochineal, 3 oz. ; bruised nut-galls, 2 oz ; and cream 
of tartar, I oz., in one pail of water ; when a little cool, begin to 
dip, raising the heat to a boil, continuing to dip I hour ; wash, and 
dry. 

Cinnamon or Brown on Cotton and Silk — By a New PRocKs.i 
— Very Beautiful. — Give the goods as much color, from a solution 
of blue vitrol, 2 oz., to water, one gal., as it will take up in dipT)ing 
15 minutes ; then run it through lime-water ; this will make a 
beautiful sky-blue, of much durability ; it has now to be '•uu 
through a solution of prussiate of potash, 1 oz., to water, 1 gal. * 

Aniline Black on Silk or Cotton. — Water, 20 to 30 parts ; chlo- 
rate of potassa, 1 part ; sal ammoniac, 1 part ; chloride of copper, 1 
part ; aniline, 1 part ; and hydrochloric, 1 part ; previously mixed 
together. The fabric or yarn is dried in ageing rooms at a low 
temperature for 24 hours and washed afterwards. 

To Color Straw Hats or Bonnets a Beautiful Slatb. — First^ 
soak the bonnet in rather strong warm suds for 15 minutes to 
remove sizing or stiffening ; then rinse in warm water, to get out 
the soap ; now scald cudbear, 1 oz., in sufficient water to cover 
the hat or bonnet ; work the bonnet in this dye, at 180° of heat, 
until you get a light purple ; now have a bucket of cold water, 
blued with the extract of indigo, ^ oz,, and work or stir the 
bonnet in this, until the tint pleases ; dry, then rinse out with cold 
water, and dnr again in the shade. If you get the purple too deep 
in shade the final slate will be too dark. 

To Bleach Straw Bonnets.— Take a coirmon plate, fill it with 
water, set a small piece of sheet iron, with the ends bent down to 
raise the top above the water, place in the middle of the tin plate, 
on which you must place a small piece of brimstone, set it on fire, 
and cover it over tight with a large bell r large tumbler or bowl 
that will just shut down close within the rim of the plate ; at first 
raise the cover a little to admit a current of air to cause the sul- 
phur to burn, until you fill the whole with a white vapor ; then 
shut down tight about ten minutes, and the water will absorb the 
sulphurous acid gas, with which straw hats or wooden articles 
are washed over to bleach in the most approved manner. It will 
also remove fruit and vegetable stains from dress. 

Washing Fluid— Take 1 lb. sal soda, J lb. good stone lime, and 
5 qts. of water ; boil a short time, let it settle, and pour off the 
clear fi'iid into a stone jug, and cork for use ; soak your white 
clothes over night in simple water, wring out and soap wristbands, 
collars, and dirty or stained places ; have your boiler half filled 
with water just beginning to boil, then put in one common teacup- 
ful of fluid, stl." and put in your clothes, and boil for half an hour, 
then rub lightly through one suda only, and all is complete. 

Chip or Straw Hats or Bonnets may be dyed black by boiling 
them three or four hours in a strong liquor of logwood, adding a 
little copperas occasionally. Let the bonnets remain in the liquor 
all night ; then take out to dry in the air. If the black is not satis- 
factory, dye again after drying. Rub inside and out with a sponge 
moistened in nne oil ; then block. Jied Dye, — Boil ground Brazil- 






38 



DYEIvS AND BLEACHERS RECEIITS. 



wood in R lye of potash, and boil your straw hatg, &o., in it. Bliie 
JDife. — Take a safflcient ouantitj of potash lye, 1 lb. of litmus or 
lacmus, ground : make a aecoction and then put in the straw, and 
boil it. 

Dybs for Hats. — The ordinary bath for dyeing hats, employed 
by the London manufacturers, consists, for twelve dozen, of 144 
lbs. logwood ; 12 lbs of green sulphate of iron or copperas ; 7^ lbs. 
verdigris. The logwooa having been introduced into the copper, 
and digested for some time, the copperas and verdigris are added 
in successive quantities, and in the above proportions, along with 
every successive two or three dozens of hats suspended upon the 
dripping machine. Each set of hats, after being exposed to the 
bath with occasional airings during forty minutes, is taken off the 
pegs, and laid out upon the ground to be more completely black- 
ened by the peroxydizement of the iron with the atmospheric oxy- 
gen. In three or four hours, the dyeing is completed. When fully 
dyed, the hats are well washed in running water. 

WATRnpRoop Stifpenino for Hats.— Mix 18 lbs. of shellac with I^ 
lb., of salt of tartar (carbonate of potash), and 5J gals, water. 
These materials are to be put in a kettle, and made to boil gradu- 
ally till the lac is dissolved, when the liquid will become as clear 
as wator, without any scum upon the top, and if left to cool, will 
have a thin crust upon the surface, of a whitish cast, mixed with 
the light impurities of the gum. When thig skin is taken off, the 
hat body is to be dipped into the mixture in a cold state, so as to 
absorb as much as possible of it ; or it may be applied witn a brush 
or sponge. The hat body, being thus stiffened, may stand till it 
becomes dry, or nearly so ; and after it has been brushed, it must 
be immersed in very dilute sulphuric or acetic acid, in order to 
neutralize the potash, and cause the shellac to set. If the hats are 
not to be napped immediately, they may be thrown into a cistern 
of pure water, and taken out as wanted. 

Method op Blbachino Straw. — Dip the straw in a solution of 
oxygenated muriatic acid, saturated with potash. (Oxygenated 
muriate of lime is much cheaper.) The straw is thug rendered 
very white, and its flexibility is increased. 

Blbachino Straw Goods.— Straw is bleached by simply ekpng« 
ing it in a closed chffmber to the fumes of burning sulphur^ an ild 
flour barrel is the apparatus most used for the purpose by milliners, 
a flat stone being laid on the ground, the sulphur ignited thereon, 
and the barrel containing the goods to be bleached turned over it. 
The goods should be previously washed in pure water. 

Varnish for faded Rubbbr Goods. — Black Japan varnish diluted 
vrith a little linseed oil. 

To blbach Linen. — Mix common bleaching-powder, in the pro- 
portion of 1 lb. to a gallon of water ; stir it occasionally for three 
days, let it settle, ana pour it off clear. Then make a lye of 1 lb. 
of soda to 1 gallon of boiling soft water, in which soak the linen 
for 12 hours, and boil it half an hour ; next soak it in the 
bleaching liquor, made as above ; and lastly, wash it in the usual 
manner. 

Discolored linen or muslin may be restored by putting ^ portion 
of bleaching liquor into the tub wherein the articles are soaking. 



Bla( 
pnlver 
put th( 
until t 
in the 

Eas^ 
Sprink 
in whii 
scent 
the aii| 
spirits 
and fin 
bits of 
of the 



apply 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS RECEIPTS. 



89 



Black Varnish fob Cmp and Straw Hats.— Beat alcohol, 4 oz. j 
pulverized black sealing-wax, 1 oz. ; put them into a phial, and 
put the phial into a wann place, stirring or shaking occasio«ally 
until the wax is dissolved Apply^ it when warm before the fire or 
in the sun. This makes a beautiful gloss. 

Easy Method of preventing Moths in Furs or "Woollens. — 
Sprinkle the furs or woollen stuffs, as well as the drawers or boxes 
in which they are kept, with spirits of turpentine, the unpleasant 
scent of which will speedily evaporate on exposure of the stuflPs to 
the air Some persons place sheets of paper^ moistened with 
spirits of turpentine, over, under, or between pieces of cloth, &c., 
and find it a verv effectual method. Many woollen drapers put 
bits of camphor, the size of a nutmeg, in papers, on different parts 
of the shelves in their shops , and as they brush their cloths every 
two, three or four months, this keeps them free from moths : and this 
should be done in boxes where furs, &c., are put A tallow candle 
is frequently put within each muff when laid by. 

Clothing Renovator. — Soft water, 1 gal. ; make a strong decoc- 
tion of logwood by boiling the extract with the water Slraiu, 
when cool, add 2 oz. gum arable in powder ; bottle, cork well.'and ' 
set aside for use ; clean the coat well from grease and dirt, and 
apply the above liquid with a sponge evenly. Dilute to suit the 
color, and hang in the shade to diy ; afterwards brush the nap 
smooth, and it will look like new 

Waterproofing for Porous Cloth. — Dissolve 2J lbs. alum in 4 
gals, water ; dissolve also in a separate vessel the same weight of 
acetate of lead in the same quantity of water. When both are well 
dissolved, mix the solutions together ; and, when the sulphate of 
lead resulting from this mixture has been precipitated to the bottom 
of the vessel in the form of a powder, pour off the solution, and 
plunge into it the fabric to be rendered waterproof. Wash and 
rub it well during a few minutes, and hang it in the air to dry. 

To Remove Grease. — Aqua ammonia, 2 oz. ; soft water^ 1 quart ; 
saltpetre, 1 teaspoonful ; shaving soap in shavings, 1 oz. ; mix altoge- 
ther ; dissolve the soap well, and any grease or dirt that cannot be 
Kmoved with this preparation, nothing else need be tried for it 

Waterproofing for Clothing. — Boiled oil, 15 lbs ; bee's-wax, 1 
lb. ; ground litharge, 13 lbs. ; mix, and apply with a brush to the 
aiiicle, previously stretched against a wall or a table, previously 
well washing ana drying each article before applying the composi- 
iion. 

To Renew Old Silks. — Unravel and put then iu ? tub, cover 
then- With cold water, let them remain one hour; dip them up and 
down, but do not wring ; hang up to drain, and iron while very 
damp, and they wiU look beauuful. 

. Dyes for Fore. — For black, use the hair dye described in these 
receipts. Brown, use tincture of logwood. Red, ground Brazil- 
wood h lb ; water, 1^ quarts ; cochineal,^ oz. ; boil the Brazil-wood 
u ttt. W£ ter one hour ; strain and add the cocnmeai ; boil fifteen 
minutes Scarlet color, boil ^ oz. saffron in h pint of water, and 
pass ovCi the work before applying the red Blue, logwood, 7 nz. ; 
l.'ue viiiiol, 1 oz. ; water, 22 oz ; Doil. Purple, logwood, 11 oz. ; 
Tflum J oz : water, 29 oa Qremy strong vinegar, IJ pmts , beat 



40 



PRUQOISTS BEOEIPTS. 



verdigris, 2 oz. ; ground fine; sap green, i oz. ; mix all together and 
boil. 

Potter's Invisiblb Watbhproofino fob CLOTraNO. — Imbue the 
cloth on the wrong side with a solution of isinglass, alum, and soap 
dissolved in water, forming an emulsion of a milky tuickness; 
apply with a brush, rubbing in well. When dry, it is brushed on 
the wrong side against the grain, and then gone over with a brush 
dipped in water ; afterwards brushed down smooth. 

To BAiSB A Nap on Cloth. — Clean the article well; soak it in 
cold water for half an hour ; put it on a board, and rub the thread- 
bare parts with a half- worn hatter's card filled with flocks, or with 
a teazle or a prickly thistle until a nap is raised ; then lay the nap 
the right way with a hatter's brush, and hang up to dry. 

Black Reviver for Cloth. — Bruised galls, 1 lb.; logwood, 2 lbs. ; 
^reen vitriol, ^ lb. ; water, 6 quarts ; boil two hours j strain, and it 
IS ready for use. 






DRUGGISTS' DEPARTMENT. 

Rbmbdt for Diphtheria.— The treatment consists in thoroughly 
swabbing the back of the mouth and throat with a wash made 
thus : Table salt, 2 drams ; black pepper, golden seal, nitrate of 
potasli, alum, 1 dram each ; mix and pulverize ; put into a teacup 
half full of water ; stir well, and then fill up with good vinegar. 
Use every half hour, one, two, and four hours, as recovery pro- 
gresses. The patient may swallow a little each time. Apply 1 oz. 
each of spirits turpentine, sweet oil, and aqua-ammonia, mixed, 
every hour to the whole of the throat, and to the breast bone every 
fbiu" hours, keeping flannel to the part. 

floLLowAY's Ointment and Pills. — Butter, 22 oz. ; beeswax, 3 
oa. ; yellow rosin, 3 oz. ; melt; and vinegar of cantharides, 1 oz. 
evaporate ; and add Canada balsam, 1 oz. ; oil of mace, ^ dram ; 
balsam of Peru, 15 drops. I*ills : Aloes, 4 parts ; myrrh, jalap, 
and ginger, of each 2 parts ; mucilage to mix. 

Abernbthy's Pills. — Each pill contains 2 grains of blue pill and 
3 grains compound extract of colocynth. 

worm Lozenges. — Powdered lump sugar, 10 oz. ; starch, 5 oz. ; 
mix with mucilage; and to every ounce add 12 grains calomel; 
divide in 20 grain lozenges. Dose, two to six. 

Soothing Syrup. — Alcohol, oil of peppermint, castor oil, of each, 
1 oz. ; mix ; add oil of anise, ^ dram ; magnesia, 60 grains ; pulve- 
rized ginger, 40 grains ; water, 2 oz. ; white sugar to form a syrup. 

Soothing Syrup . — Take lib. of honey; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
paregoric, and tbe same of oil of anise seed] add enough water 
to make a thick syrup, and bottle. For children teething, dose, 
teaspoonful occasionally. 

Infant's Sykup.— The syrup is made thus ; 1 lb. best box raisins ; 
i ounce of anise seed ; two sticks licorice ; split the raisins, pound 
the anise seed, and cut the licorice fine ; add to it 3 quarts of rain 
water, and boil down lo 2 quarts. Feed three or four times a day, 
as much as the chiU wilt willingly drink. The raisins are tQ 



DBUQGIBTS' RECEIPTS. 



41 



11 together and 



strengthen, the anise is to expel the wind, and the licorice as a 
physic. 

Bbandbth's Pills. — Take 2 lbs. of aloes, 1 lb. of gambogOj 4 oz. 
of extract of colocynth. ^ lb. of Castik soap, 3 fluid drams of oil of 
peppermint, and 1 fluid dram of cinnamon. Mix, and form into 
pills. 

Pbrry Davis' Pain Killeb. — Myrrh, IJ oz. ; guaiacum resin, 1 
oz. ; camphor, J oz. ; red pepper, oil anise, each, 1 dram j dilute 
alcohol, 2 pints; mix. Stand seven days, and filter. 
. Fahnbstock's Vkkmifcob. — Castor oil, oil of worxn seed, each 1 
oz. ; oil anise, | oz. : tincture myrrh, ^ dram ; oil -t-urpentine, 10 
minims ; castor oil, 2 drops ; mix. 

Swaim's Vermifuge. — Wormseed, 2 oz. ; valerian, rhubarb, pink- 
root, white agaric, of each 1^ oz. ; boil in sufficient water to yield 
;l quarts of decoction ; and add to it 10 drops of oil of tansy and 45 
drops of oil of cloves, dissolved in a quart of rectified spirits. Dose, 

1 tablespoonful at night. 

Ayer's Cherry Pectoral. — Take 4 grains of acetate of morphia; 

2 fluid drams of tincture of bloodroot ; 3 fluid drams each of anti- 
monial wine and wine of ipecacuanha, and 3 fluid oz. of syrup of 
wild cherry. Mix. 

Brown's Bronchial Troches.— Take 1 lb. of pulverized extract 
of licorice ; 1^ lb. of pulverized sugar ; 4 oz. of pulverized cubebs ; 
4 oz. of pulverized gum arable, 1 oz. of pulverized extract of co« 
nium. Mix. 

Russia Salve. — Take equal parts of yellow wax and sweet oil : 
melt slowlv, carefully stirring; when cooling, stir in a small 
quantity ot glycerine. Good for all kinds of wounds, &c. 

Dbnti8t's»Compo8ition for Filling Decayed Teeth.— Gold, 1 
part ; mercury, 8 parts ; incorporated by heating together ; when 
mixed pour them into cold water. Or, tinfoil and quicksilver ; melt 
together in a convenient vessel, take a small quantity, knead it 
in the palm of the hand, and apply quick. Or, mix a little finely- 

Sowdered glass with some mineral succedaneum ; apply as usual. 
r, take some mineral succedaneum, and add some steel dust. Or, 
mineral succedaneum mixed with levigated porcelain or china. 
Or, gypsum, 1 part ; levigated porcelain, 1 part ; levigated iron 
filings, 1 part ; make into a paste with equal parts of quick drying 
copal and mastic varnish. Or, quick'^ilver, 40 grains ; steel filings, 
26 grains. Or, silver. 72 parts ; tin, 20 parts ; zinc, 6 parts. Better 
than any, pure gold, 1 part ; silver, 3 parts ; tin, 2 parts ^ melt 
the first two, add the tin, reduce all to a fine powder, use with an 
equal quantity of pure mercury. 

Gutta-percha, softened by heat, is recommended. Dr. Rollfs 
advises melting a piece of caoutchouc at the end of a wire, and 
introducing it while warm. 

Amalgams for the teeth are made with gold or silver, and quick- 
silver, the excess of the latter being squeezed out, and the stiff 
amalgam used warm. Inferior kinds are made with quicksilver 
and tin, or zinc. A popular nostrum of this kind consists of 40 
grains of quicksilver and 20 of fine zinc filings, mixed at the time 
of using. The following is said to be the most lasting and least 
objectionable amalgam : Melt 2 parts of tin with I of cadmium^ 



42 



DRUGGISTS* RECEIPTS. 



1, 



ii 



run it into an in^ot, and reduce it to filings. Form these into a 
fluid amalgam with mercury, and squeeze out the excess of mer- 
cury through leather. Worlc up the solid residue in the hand, and 
press it into the tooth. Another cement consists of about 73 
parts of silver, 21 of tin^ and 6 of zinc, amalgamated with quick- 
silver. 

PouDRB MsTALLiQin. — The article sold under this name in Paris 
ai)pears to be an amalgam of silver, mercury, and ammonium, 
with an excess of mercury, which is pressed out before using it. 

To ExTBAOT Tbeth WITH UTTLB OR NO Pain. — Tincture of aco- 
nite, chloroform, and alcohol, of each 1 oz. ; mix ; moisten two 
pledfgets of cotton with the liquid, and. apply to the gums on each 
side of the tooth to be extracted, holding them in their place with 
pliers or other instruments for from five to ten minutes, rubbing 
the gum freely inside and out. 

Tooth Wash. — To Rbmovb Blackness. — Pure muriatic acid. 
1 oz. ; water, 1 oz. ; honey, 2 oz. ; mix. Take a tooth-brush, and 
wet it freely with this preparation, and briskly rub the black 
teeth, and in a moment's time they will be perfectly white : then 
immediately wash out the mouth with water, that the acid may 
not act upom the enamel of the teeth. 

Dentist's Nbbvb Paste. — Arsenic, 1 part; rose pink, 2 parts. 
To destroy the nerve, apply this preparation on a pledget of 
cotton, previousljr moistened with creosote, to the cavity of the 
tooth, let it remain 4 hours, then wash out thoroughly with water. 

Dentist's Emery Wheels. — Emery, 4 lbs. ; shellac, i lb. ; melt 
the shellac over a slow fire; stir in the emery, and pour into a 
mould of plaster of Paris. When cold it is ready for use. 

Base vom Artificial Teeth.— Proportions.— Indfti rubber, 1 
lb. : sulphur, i Ik. ; vermillion, 1 lb. 4 oz. 

GuBB FOR Lock jaw, said to be positive. — Let any one who has 
an attack of lock jaw take a small quantity of spirits of turpentine, 
warm \t, and pour it on the wound — no matter where the wound is, 
or what its nature is, and relief will follow in less than one minute. 
Turpentine is also a sovereign remedy for croup. Saturate a piece 
of flannel with it, aad place the flannel on the throat and chest — 
and in very severe cases three to five drops on a lump of sugar 
may be taken internally. 

Compound Extract of Buchu. — Buchu leaves, 1 lb. ; boiling. dis- 
tilled water, 3 gals. ; boil the leaves in 2 gals, of the water down to 
6 qts. : then boil it again in the remaining water till reduced to 2 
qts. Evaporate the mixed liquors down to 6 qts., and add 1 qt. 
strong sage tea^ 2 drs. bicarb, potassa, 2 drs. tinct. cannabis 
indica, 5 oz. rectified spirit, 2 oz. balsam copaiba, and Harlem oil, 
1 bottle. 

New Method of Embalminq. — Mix together 5 pounds dry sul- 
phate of alumine, 1 quart of warm water, and 100 grains of arseni- 
ous acid. Inject 3 or 4 quarts of this mixture into all the vessels of 
the human body. This applies as well to all animals, birds, fishes, 
&c. This process supersedes the old and revolting mode, and has 
been introduced into the great anatomical schools of Paris. 

Nitrate of Silver. — Pure silver. Ijoz. ; nitric acid, 1 oz. diluted 
with water, 2 oz. ; heat b^ a sand-bath until ebulUtiou ceases, an4 



DRUOatSt's RECEIPTS. 



48 



these into a 

ccess of mer- 

he hand, and 

of about 73 

with quick- 

ame in Paris 
ammonium, 
-e using it. 
cture of aco- 
moisten two 
ums on each 
ir place with 
ites, rubbing 

ariatic acid, 
h-brusb, and 
lb the black 
white: then 
le acia may 

ink, 2 parts. 
I pledget of 
avity of the 
J with water. 
, i lb. ; melt 
pour into a 
ise. 
fe rubber, 1 

one who has 
turpentine, 
c wound is, 

lone minute, 
rate a piece 
nd chest — 
p of sugar 

Iboiling.dis- 

Iter down to 

;duced to 2 

add 1 qt. 

cannabis 

[arlem oil, 

dry sul- 

of arseni- 

vessels of 

bds, fishes, 

le, and has 

Vis. 

»z. diluted 
3{^ses, an4 



9 drams ; mucilage, 5 drams ; distilled water, 37j^ 



the water is expelled ; then pour into moulds. This substance 
must be kept from the light. 

Hair Dtb, No. 1. — Take gallic acid, ^ oz ; alcohol, 8 oz. ; soft 
water, 16 oz. Put the acid in the alcohol, then add the water. 

No. 2. — Crystallized nitrate of silver, 1 oz. : strongest ammonia^ 
3 oz. ; gum arable, ^ oz. ; soft water, 6 oz. Put the silver in the 
ammonia ; do not cork it till it is dissolved ; dissolve the gum ir the 
water, then mix, and it is ready for use. 

Keep Nos. 1 and 2 in separate bottles, and apply each alternately 
to the hair. Be particular to cleanse the hair before applying the 
dye. 

Anothbr. — Nitrate of silver, 11 drams; nitric acid^ 1 dram; 
distilled water, 1 pint ; sap green, 3 drams ; gum arable, 1 dram. 
Mix. 

Anothkr.— Nitric acid, 1 dram; nitrate of silver, 10 drams; 
sap green, 
fluid oz. 

Hair Invigorator. — Bay rum, 2 pints ; alcohol, 1 pint ; castor 
oil, 1 oz. ; carb. ammonia, j| oz. ; tincture of cantharides, 1 oz. Mix 
them well. This compound will promote the growth of the hair, 
and prevent it from falling out. 

Razor-Strop Paste. — Wet the strop with a little sweet oil, and 
apply a little flour of emery evenly over the surface. 

Oil of Roses.— Olive oil, 1 lb. ; otto of roses, 50 drops ; oil of 
rosemary, 25 drops ; mix. Another, roses (hardly opened) 12 oz. ; 
olive oil, 10 oz. , beat them together in a mortar ; let them remain 
for a few days, then express the oil. 

Balm op Beadtv.— Pure soft water, 1 qt. ; pulverized Castile 
soap, 4oz.; emulsion of bitter almonds, 6 oz. ; rose and orange 
flower water, of each, 8 oz. ; tincture of benzoin, 2 drs. : borax. 1 
dr. ; add 5 grs. bichloride of mercury to every 8 oz. of the mix- 
ture. To use, apply on a cotton v-jr linen cloth to the face, &c. 

Oriental Cold Cream. — Oil of almonds, 4 oz,, white wax and 
spermaceti, of each, 2 drs. ; melt, and add rose water, 4 oz.; orange 
flower water, 1 oz. ; used to soften the skin, apply as the last. 

Shaving Cream. — White wax, spermaceti, and almond oil, of 
each \ oz. : melt, and while warm, beat in 2 squares of Windsor 
soap previously reduced to a paste with rose water. 

CfiRCASSiAN Cream. — Take 2 ounces of perfectly fresh suet, either 
mutton or venison ; 3 ounces of olive oil; 1 oz. gum benzoin in 
powder^ and i oz. of alkanet root. Put the whole into a jam jar, 
which, if without a lid, must be tied over with bladder, and place 
the jar in a saucepan containing boiling water, at the side of the 
fire. -^ Digest for a whole day, then strain away all that is fluid 
through fine muslin, and stir till nearly cold. Add, say 1 dram 
of essence of almonds, roses, bergamot or any other perfume 
desired. 

Freckle Cure. — Take two oz. lemon juice, or half a dram of 
powdered borax, and one dram of sugar ; mix together, and let 
them stand in a glass bottle for a few days, then rub on the fac« 
occasionally. 

Yankee Shaving Soap. — Take 3 lbs. white bar soap, 1 lb. Caitile 
soap, 1 quart rain water. ^ pt. beefs gall, 1 gill spirits of turpen* 



44 



druggist's receipt.^. 



>■• 



tme. Cut the soap into thin slices, and boil five minutes after the 
soap is dissolved, stir while boiling ■ scent with oil of rose or 
almonds. If wished to color it, use J oz vermilion. 

Bloom OF Yodth. — Boil 1 ounce of Brazil wood in 3 pints of 
water for 16 minutes: strain. Add i oz. isinglass, i oz. cochi* 
neal, 1 oz. alum, ^ oz. oorax. Dissolve by heat, and strain 

CoLooNB Water.— Oils of rosemary and lemon, of each k oz.; 
oils of bergamot and lavender, each j oz.; oil cinnamon, 8 drops ; 
oils of cloves and rose, each 15 drops ; best deodorized alcohol, 2 
qts.; shake 2 or 3 times per day for a wrek 

We propose to give the formula for the following preparations, 
and shall commence with what is said to be 

Boglb's HrPBRioN Fluid.— To S oz. of 90 or 95 per cent, alcohol, 
colored red with alkanet, add 1 oz. of castor-oil : perfume with 
geranium and verbena. 

Lyon's Kathairon.— To 8 oz. of 80 per cent, alcohol, colored 
yellow by a few drops extract of annotto, add 2 oz. castor-oil, and 
perfume with a little bergamot. 

Phalon's Hair Restorative. — To 8 oz. of 90 per cent, alcohol, 
colored by a few drops tincture of alkanet root, add 1 oz. of cas- 
tor oil, and perfume with a compound of bergamot, neroli, verbena, 
and orange. 

Mrs. Allen's.— To 16 oz. of rose water, diluted with an equal 
part of salt water, add J oz. of sulphur and i oz. of sugar of lead; 
let the compound stand five days before using. 

Batohblor's Hair-Dye.— No. 1. To 1 oz. of gallic acid, dissolved 
in 8 oz. alcohol, add i gal. soft water. No. 2. To 1 oz. nitrate of 
silver, dissolved in 1 oz. of concentrated ammonia, and 3 oz. of 
soft water, add 1 oz. gum arabic and 4 oz. of soft water. 

Christadoro'b Hair-Dye. — No. 1. To i oz. of gallic acid, dis- 
solved in 8 oz. alcohol, add i gal. soft water. No. 2. To 1 oz. crys- 
tallized nitrate of silver, dissolved in 1 oz. concentrated aqua- 
ammonia and 2 oz. soft water, add 2 oz. gum arabic and 5 oz. soft 
water. 

Phalon's Instantaneous Hair-Dye.- No. 1 . To U oz. gallic acid, 
and J oz. of tannia, dissolved in 8 oz. of alcohol, add J gal. of soft 
water. No. 2. To 1 oz. crystallized nitrate of silver, dissolved in 
1 oz. concentrated aqua-ammonia, add 1^ oz. gum arabic, and 8 
oz. soft water. 

Harrison's. — No. 1. To 4 oz. gallic acid, 1 oz. of tannia dis- 
solved in 10 oz. alcohol, ad(f 2 qts. .soft water. No. 2. To 1 oz. crys- 
tallized nitrate of silver, dissolved in 2 oz. of concentrated aqua- 
ammonia, add 12 oz. soft water and 1| oz. gum arabic. No. 3. 1 oz. 
hydro-sulphate of potassa, dissolved in i gal. of soft water. This 
last ingredient is intended to produce a deep black color if the 
others should fail. 

^ Phalon's (One Preparation.)— To 1 oz. crystallized nitrate of 
silver, dissolved in 2 oz. of aqua-ammonia, add 16 oz. soft water. 
This is not an instantaneous dye ; but, after exposure to the light 
and air, a dark color is produced upon the surface to which it 
is applied. 

Professor Wood's.— To 8 oz. vinegar, diluted with an eqaa] 
part of soft water, add 2 drs. sulphur, and 2 drs. sugar of lead, 



sttgai 
nia, tl 



tes after tha 
1 of rose or 

n 3 pints of 
{ oz. cochi* 
straia 

f each i oz.*, 
on, 8 drops ; 
ed alcohol, 2 

preparations, 

;ent. alcohol, 
erfume with 

ohol, colored 
iS tor-oil, and 

lent. alcohol, 

I oz. of cas- 

roli, verbena. 

ith an equal 
igar of lead ; 

jid, dissolved 

)z. nitrate of 

and 3 oz. of 

er. 

ic acid, dis- 

1 oz. crys- 
|trated aqua- 

nd 5 oz. soft 

;. gallic acid, 
gal. of soft 
Idissolved in 
jrabic, and 8 

tannia dis- 
Po 1 oz. crys- 
Itrated aqna- 

1 No. 3. 1 oz. 
rater. This 
color if the 

nitrate of 
soft water. 
Ito the light 
Ito which it 

an equaj 
1 of lead, 



l)IlUGGttT's RECEIPTS. 



45 



Twmo's Hair- CoLORiNO.— Take 1 dr. lac sulphur, ^ dr. sugar of 
I< id, \ oz. rose water ; mix cartfuUy. Apply to the hair repeat- 
edly, <ill it assumes the desired shade. 

Alpinb Hair-Balm. — To 16 oz. of soft water add 8 oz. of alcohol 
and ^ oz. spirits turpentme, { oz. sulphur, and J oz. sugar of lead. 

Glycerine Prkpakation. — New rum, 1 qt. ; concentrated spirit.s, 
of ammonia, 15 drops; glycerine oil, 1 oz. ; lac sulphur, 5^ drs. ; 
sugar of lead, 5J drs. ; put the liquor into a bottle, add the aram - 
nia, then the other components. Shake the compound occasionally 
for four or five days. 

Crystalline Cream.— Oil of almond, 8 oz. ; spermaceti, 1 oz. : 
melt together. When a little cooled, add h oz. or less of essence or 
bergamot or other perfume; put into wide-mouthed bottles, and 
let it stand till cold. Camphorated crystalline cream may be 
made by using camphorated oil (L. Champhorse) instead of oil of 
almonds. 

Macassar Oil.— Olive oil, 1 qt. ; alcohol, 2J oz. ; rose oil, IJ oz. ; 
then tie 1 oz. of chipped alkanet root in a muslin bag, and put it in 
the oil, let it alone for some days till it turns the color of a pretty 
red, then remove to other oils. Do not press it. 

Ox Marrow. — Melt 4 oz. ox tallow ; white wax, 1 oz. ; fresh lard, 
6 oz. ; when cold, add 1 J oz. oil of bergamot. 

Bear's Oil. — Use good sweet lard oil, 1 qt., oil bergamot, IJ oz. 

Hair Restorative. — Sugar of lead, borax and lac sulphur, of 
each, 1 oz. ; aqua ammonia, | oz ; alcohol, 1 gill. These articles 
are to stand mixed for 14 hours ; then add bay rum, 1 gill : fine 
table salt, 1 tablespoon ; soft water, 3 pts. ; essence of bergamot, 1 
oz. This preparation gives a splendid glossy appearance to the 
hair, turns gray hair to a dark color, and restores the hair when 
common baldness sets in. When the hair is thin or bald, apply 
twice a day with a hard brush, working it into the roots of^ the 
hair. For gray hair once a day is sufficient. 

Balm of a Thousand Flowers. — Deodorized alcohol, 1 pt. ; nice 
white bar soap, 4 oz. ; shave the soap when put in, stand in a warm 
place till dissolved ; then add oil of citronella, 1 dr. ; and oils of 
neroli and rosemary, of each A dr. 

New York Barber's Star Hair Oil. — Castor oil 6J pts. ; alcohol, 
1 J pts. ; citronella and lavender oil, each ^ oz. 

Barber's Shampoo Mixture. — Soft water, 1 pt. ; sal soda, 1 oz. ;" 
cream tartar, i oz. Apply thoroughly to the hair. 

Frangipanni.— Spirits, 1 gal, ; oil bergamot, 1 oz. ; oil of lemon, 
1 oz. ; macerate for 4 days, frecjuently shaking ; then add water, 1 
gal. ; orange-flower water, 1 pint, essence of vanilla, 2 oz. Mix 

Jockey Club. — Spirit of wine, 5 gal. ; orange-flower water, I 
gal, ; balsam of Peru, 4 oz. ; essence of bergamot, 8 oz. ; essence 
of musk, 8 oz,; essence of cloves, 4 oz. ; essence of neroli, 2 oz. 
Mix. 

Ladies' Own. — Spirits of wine, 1 gal. ; otto of roses, 20 drops ; 
essence of thyme, J oz. ; essence of neroli, i oz. ; essence of vanilla, 
^ oz. ; essence of l^rgamot, \ oz. ; orange-flower water, 6 oz. 

Kiss me Quick. — Spirit, 1 gal. ; essence of thyme, i oz. ; essence 
of orange-flowers, 2 oz. ; essence neroli. ^ oz. ; otto of roses, 30 drops ; 
essence of jasmine, 1 oz. ; essence of balm mint J oz petals of 



46 



BRUaaiST'S RECEIPTS* 



roses, 4 oz. ; oil lemon, 20 drops ; calorus aromaticus, i oz. * essence 
ueroli, i oz. Mix and strain. 

Uppir Ten.— Spirits of wine, 4 qts. ; essence of cedrat, 2 drs. ; 
essence of violets, ioz. ; essence of neroli, ||^ oz. ; otto of roses, 20 
drops ; orange-flower essence, 1 oz. \ oil of rosemary, 30 drops ; oils 
bergamot and neroli, each ^ oz. 

India Cholaooodi.— Quinine, 20 grs. ; peravian bark, pulverized, 
1 oz. : sulphuric acid, 15 drops, or 1 scruple of tartaric acid is best; 
brandy, 1 gill ; water to make one pint ; dose, 6 teaspoonfuls 
every 2 hours in the absence of fever, an excellent remedy. 

FiBRis'UQB WiNB. — Quinine, 25 grs. ; water, I pint ; sulphuric 
acid, 15 drops ; epsom salts'^ 2 oz. ; color with tincture of red San- 
ders ; dose, a wine glass 3 times per day. This is a world renowned 
medicine. 

Barrbll's Indian-Liniment. — Alcohol, 1 qt. ; tincture of capsicum, 
1 oz. ; oil of origanum, sassafras, pennyroyal, and hemlock, of each 
^ oz. Mix. 

God Livbr Oil, as usually prepared^is nothing more or less 
than cod oil clarified, by which process it is in fact deprived in a 
great measure of its virtue. God oil can be purchased from any 
wholesale oil dealer for one thirtieth part of the price of cod liver 
oil as usually sold, and it is easy to clarify it. Dealers might turn 
this information to good account. To make it more palatable and 
digestible, pUt 1 oz. of fine table salt to each quart bottle. 

biMPLB Rsmedibs for Scarlet Fbver. — Open the bowels regu- 
larly every day, with some mild aperient medicine, liuch as castor 
oil, senna, etc., and keep the patient at rest, and comfortably 
warm ; sponge the surface with tepid water, two or three times a 
day ; while it is hotter than natural, admit fresh air ; live on a 
bland diet, such as a cupful of arrowroot, several times a dajj 
toast-water for common arink. Gargle made of strong sage tea, 
honey and alum, or borax, may be used from the commencement, 
if the throat is affected. 

Paregoric— Best opium, I dr., dissolve it in about 2 tablespoons 
of boiling water ; then add benzoic acid, J dr, ; oil of anise, i a 
fluid dr. ; clarified honey, 1 oz. ; camphor gum, 1 scruple ; alcohol, 
76 per cent, 11 fluid oz. ; distilled water, 4 fluid oz. ; macerate 
(keep warm) for two weeks. Dosb— For children, 6 to 20 drops, 
adults, 1 to 2 teaspoons. 

(yOUGH Syrup.— Put 1 qt. hoarbound tea; 1 qt. of water, and 
boil it down to 1 pt. ; add 2 or 3 sticks licorice ; 2 oz. syrup of 
squillSj and a tablespoonful essence of lemon. Take a tablespoon- 
ful 3 tim^s a day, or as the cough requires. 

GouGH Byrdp.— Syrup of squills, 2 oz.; tartarized antimony^ 
8 grs. ; sulphate of morphine, 5 grs. ; pulverized gum arable, \ oz. ; 
honey, 1 oz. ; water, 1 oz., mix : dose for an adult 1 small teaspoon- 
ful, repeat in half an hour if it does not relieve : child in pro- 
portion. 

■Vegetable Substitute for Calomel.— Jalap, 1 oz., senna, 2 dz., 
peppermint, 1 oz, (a little cinnamon if desired,) all pulverized 
and sifted through gauze. Dose, 1 teaspoonful put in a cup with 2 
or 3 spoonfuls of hot water, and a good lump of white sugar ; 
when cool, drink all ; to be taken fasting in the morning; drink 



freely, 
inflteiu 
Sta» 
there h 



runce 



hops, 
water ; 



>z. ' essence 

'at, 2 drs. ; 
)f roses, 20 
drops i oils 

pulverized, 

icid is best; 

3aspoonfula 

Jdy. 

; sulphuric 

of red san> 

d renowned 

>f capsicum, 
ock, of each 

ore or less 
iprived in a 
a from any 
[)f cod liver 
might turn 
latable and 
Lie. 

)Mrel8 regu- 
}h as castor 
lomfortably 
ree times a 
; live on a 
nes a dajj 
ig sage tea, 
aencement, 

ablespoons 
anise, } a 
; alcohol, 

i, macerate 
20 drops, 

rater, and 

syrup of 

iblespoon- 

[antimony^ 
libic, ^ oz. ; 
[teaspoon- 
Id in pro- 

iina, 2 dz., 
j)ulveri2ied 
|up with 2 

te sugar ; 

ig; drink 



DRUG0I8T ri RECEIPTS. 



47 



freely, If it does not ojicrate in 3 hours rt'i)eat j the quantity, use 
instead of calomel. 

Stammering.— Impediments in the speech mav be cured, where 
there is no mal-formatiou of the organs of articulation, by perseve- 
rance, for three or four mouths, in the sininlo remedv of reading 
aloud, with the teeth closed, for at least 2 hours in the course of 
each (lay. 

Gold in the ITEAr).— Dr. Pollion, of France, says that cold in 
the head can be cured by inhaling hartshorn. The iuhalation by 
the nose should be seven or eight times in five minutes. 

Camphor Icb.— Spermaceti, li oz., gum canijjhor, I oz.,oil sweet 
almonds. 4 teaspoonfuls ; set on the stove in an eartlien dish till 
dissolved ; heat just enough to dissolve it. While warm pour into 
small moulds, if desired to sell ; then paper, and put into tinfoil; 
used for chaps on hands or lips. 

Imperial Drops for Giiavel and Kidney Complaints.— Oil of 
origanum, 1 oz., oil of hemlock, i oz., oil of sassafras, \ oz., oil of 
anise, \ oz., alcohol, 1 pint : mix. Dose, from J to 1 teaspoonful 3 
times a day, in sweetened water, will soon give relief when con- 
stant weakness is felt across the small of the back, as well as 
gravelly affections causing pain about the kidneys. 

Positjve Cure fob Gonorrhcea.— Liquor of potass, j oz., bitter 
apple, J oz.. spirits of sweet nitre, J oz., balsam of copaiba, ^ oz., 
best gum, I oz. To use, mix with peppermint water; take | ten- 
spoonful 3 times per day : cure certain in 9 days. 

Celebrated Pile Ointment.— Take carbonate of lead, J oz., sul- 
phate of morphia, 15 grs. ; stramonium ointment, I oz. ; olive oil, 
20 drops. Mix, and apply 3 times per day, or as the pain may 
require. 

Fly Paper.— Coat paper with turpentine varnish, and oil it to 
keep the varnish from drying. 

Sweating Drops.— Ipecac, safiFron, boneset, and camphor gum. 
of each, 3 oz. ; opium, 1 oz., alcohol. 2 qts. Let stand 2 weeks and 
filter. A teaspoonful in a cup of not sage or catnip tea every 
hour until free perspiration is induced ; excellent in colds, fevers, 
inflammations, &c. Bathe the feet in hot water at the same 
time. 

Syrup fob Consumptives.— Of tamarac bark, take from the tree 
without rossing, 1 peck ; spikenard root, J lb. ; dandelion root, i lb. ; 
hops, 2 oz. Boil these sufficient to get the strength in 2 or 3 gals, 
water ; strain, and boil down to 1 gal. ; when blood warm, add 
3 lbs. best honey, and 3 pints best brandy ; bottle and keep in a 
cool place. Dose, drink freely of it 3 times per day before mealSj 
at least a gill or more ; cure very certain. 

Common Castor Oil. — Pale vegetable oil, 1 gal., castor oil, 3 
gals. Mix. 

Pulmonic Wafers.— Lump sugar, licorice, and starch, of each 2 
parts; gum, 10 parts; squills and ipecacuanha, of eacn .5 parts; 
iactucarium, 2 parts. Mix, and divide into 8-grain lozenges. 

Sib James Clarke's Diarrhcea and Cholera Mixture.— Tinct. 
of opium, tinct. of camphor, and spirits of turpentine, of each 3 
drams ; oil of peppermint, 30 drops ; mix. Dose, 1 teaspoonful 
in brandy and water for diarrhoea*, 1 tablespoonful for cholera. 



48 



druggist's receipts. 



Vkgbtabli! or CoMPOf.tTiON PowDER— Fine bayberry baric, 1 lb., 
ginger 8 oz., common cayenne, 3 oz., mix. Dose, 1 teaspoonful in 
a cup of boiling water, sweeten and add milk. The best powder 
on record. 

TiNOTUEKS are made with 1 oz. of gum, root, or bark, &c., 
dried, to each pint of proof spirits, and let it. stand one week, and 
filter. 

EssBNOBS are made with 1 ez. of any giveu oil, adi^ed to 1 
pint alcohol. Peppermints are coloured with tinct. turner' c, cin- 
namon with tinct. of red sandera, wintergreen with tiaot. kino. 

Substitute for Arrowroot.— Finest potato starch, 75 lbs. ; lump 
sugar, 8 lbs. ; finely-gronnd rice, 21 lbs. Mix, and sift through 
lawn ; yields 100 lbs. «jir.cellent arrowroot. 

Certain Cube for Croup.— Goose oil and urine equal parts. 
Dose, 1 teaspoouful. A certain cure if taken in time. 

Corns and Warts.— Take a small quantity of the potash paste 
recommended for Poll Evil, and apply to Tie corn or wart. 

Druggist's Gohom.— Yellow, take ir(5n f ui^s, hydrochloric acid 
to dissolve, dilute with cold water. Red, solution of sal ammoniac, 
cochineal to color. Blue, indigo 1 pari-, oil of vitriol, 2 parts, dis- 
solve, then dilute with water. Oreen, verdigris. 1 part> acetic acid, 
3 paii3, dilute with water. Purple, cochineal, 25 grs., sugar of 
lead i oz., dissolve. 

Smelling Salts.— Sub-carbonate of ammonia, 8 parts ; put it in 
coarse powder in a bottle, and pour on it oil of lavender, 1 part. 

TuHBRiDGB W ELLS Watbr.- C hloridc of sodium, 5 grains ; tinct. 
steel, 20 drops ; distilled water, 1 J pints. 

Mineral Water.— Epsom salts, 1 oz. ; cream tartar, J oz. ; tarta- 
ric acid, i oz.; loaf sugar, 1 lb. ; oil of birch, 20 drops ; put 1 qt. 
cold water on 2 tablespoonfuls yeast (winter green oil will do), 
let it work 2 hours and then bottle. 

Gbnuinu Sbidlitz Powders.- Rochelle salts, 2 drs. ; bicarb, 
soda, 2 scruples ; put these into a blue paper, and put ^5 grains 
tartaric acid into a white paper. To use, put each into different 
tumblers, fill A with water, adding a little loaf sugar to the acid, 
then pour together and drink quick. 

Bottled Seidlitz Water. — Fill soda-water bottles with clear 
water ; add to each as below ; cork and wire immediately : Ro- 
chelle salts, 3 drops ; bicarbonate of soda, 35 grs. ; sulphuric acid, 
11 drops 

Excellent Tooth Powder. — Suds of Castile soap and spirits of 
camphor, of each an equal quantity ; thicken with equal quanti- 
ties of pulverized chalk and charcoal to a thick paste. Apply with 
the finger or bruah. 

Rat Exterminator 
1 oz. ; mix, and thicken with flour 



Warm water, 1 qt.; lard, 2 lbs. ; phosphorus, 
; to be spread on bread era 
covered with sugar. 

Bug Poison. — Alcohol, J pint; turpentine, ^ pint ; crude sal am- 
moniac, 1 oz. ; mix all together, and let it digest in a warm place 
for a few (lays, and it is ready for use. 

Medicated Cough Candy. — To 5 lbs. candy just ready to pour 
on the slab, add the following mixture, and torm it into sticks to 
correspond with the price asked for them : Tinct. squill8^2 oz. ; cam- 



si 
laudanil 



/ \. 



y bark, 1 lb., 

iaspoonful in 

best powder 

)r bark, Sr,c.. 
le week, and 

, added to 1 
urrier'c, cin- 
iaot. kino, 
75 lbs. ; lump 
sift through 

equal parts. 

potash paste 
wart. 

ochloric acid 
A ammouiac, 
2 parts, dis- 
;> acetic acid, 
rs., sugar of 

Tts ; put it in 
tider, 1 part. 
;rains ; tinct. 

i oz. ; tart&> 
38 ; put 1 qt. 
i)il will do), 

rs. ; bicarb, 
it ^5 grains 
ito different 
to the acid, 

with clear 
1 lately : Ro- 
phuric acid, 

nd spirits of 
[ual quanti- 
Apply with 

phosphorus, 
bread s'^a 

ude sal am- 
warm place 

idy to pour 
to sticks to 
,2 oz. ; cam- 



DRUGGIST S RfiGElPrS. 



4d 



pborated tinct. of opium and tinct. of tolu, of each i oz. ; ^iue of 
ipecac^ ^ oz. ; oils of gaultheria, 4 drops ; sassatras, 3 drops ; 
and of anise seed oil, 2 drops, and use this freely in common 
coughs. 

Atkinson's Infants' Phbsbrvative. — Carbonate of magnesia, 6 
drs. ; sugar, 2 oz. ; oil of anise seed, 20 drops; sal-volatilej 2^ drs.; 
laudanum, 1 dr.; syrup of saffroi\, 1 oz. Make up 1 pint with carra- 
way water. 

AouB Pill. — Quinine, 20 grs. ; Dover's powders, 10 grs. ; sub-car- 
bonate of iron, 10 grs. ; mix with mucilage of gum arable and form 
into 20 pills. Dose, 2 each \iout, commencing 5 hours before the 
chill should set in. Then take 1 night and morning until all are 
taken. ' 

Fills to promote Menstrual Secretion. — Take pills of alo4s 
and myrrh, 4 drs. ; coTipound iron pills, 280 grs. ; mix and form into 
100 pills. Dose, 2 twice a day. 

For Obstructed Menstruation. — Sulphate of iron, 60 grs. ; po- 
tassa (sub carb.) 60 grs. j myrrh, 2 drs. : make them into 3^ gr. 
pills : 2 to be taken three times a day, in tne absence of fever. Fbr 
painful menstruation, take pulv. rhei., 2 drs. j pulv. jalap, 2 dr ; 
sjrup of of popoies to mix. Divide into 200 pills, and take night 
and morning. To. check immoderate flow — Tinct. of ergot, 1 oz., 
liquor of ammonia, S drs. ; mix. Dose, teaspoonful in water 3 times 
u day. 

Stimulant. — In Low Fevers, and After Uterine Hemorrhages. 
— Best brandy and cinnamon water, of each, 4 fluid oz. ; the yolks 
of 2 eggs, well beaten ; loaf sugar, ^ oz. ; oil of cinnamon, 2 drops ; 
laix. Dose, From ^ to 1 (fluid) oz., as often as reouired. This 
makes both meat and drink. Of course, any other flavoring oils can 
be used, if preferred, in place of the cinnamon. 

For Female Complaints. — One of the best laxative pills for 
female complaints is macrotin and rhubarb, each 10 grs. ; extract 
of hyoscyamus 10 grs. ; Castile soap, 40 grs. ; scrape the soap, and 
loix well together, forming into common sized pills with gum solu- 
tion. Dose, 1 pill at bed time, or sufficiently often to keep the 
bowels in a laxative state. 

Anodyne for Painful Menstruation. — Extract of stramonium 
Aj.nd sulphate of quinine, each 16 grs. ; macrotin, 8 grs. ; morphine, 
] gr. ; make into 8 pills. Dose, 1 pill, repeating once or twice only, 
40 to 50 minutes apart, if the pain does not subside before this 
time. Pain must subside under the use of this pill, and costiveness 
i3 not increased. 

Powder for Excessive Flooding. — Gums kino and catechu, each 
1 dr.; sugar of lead and alum, each ^ dr. ; pulverize all and 
thoroughly mix, then divide into 7 to 10 grain powders. Dose, 
one every 2 or 3 hours until checked, thenless often merely to con- 
trol the flow. 

Injection for Lkuco»rh;ea. — When the glairy mucus discharge 
is present, prepare a tea of hemlock inner bark and witch hazel 
(often called spotted alder) leaves and bark, have a female syringe 
large enough to fill the vagina, and inject the tea, twice daily ; 
and occasionally in bad cases, say twice a week, inject a syringe 
of the following composition ; *" * , ' 



50 



druggist's receipts. 



' For "Chronic Female Complaints.— White vitriol and sugar o{ 
lead, each, ^ oz. ; common salt, pulverized alum, and loaf sugar, 
each, J dr. ; soft water, I pt. Inject as above. 

For Prelapsus uteri, or Falling op the Womb. — Not only the 
cheapest but the best support will be found to be a piece of fine 
firm sponge, cut to a proper size, to admit when damp of being 
l)ressed up the vagina to hold the womb in its place. The sponge 
should have a stout piece of small cord sewed 2 or 3 times through 
its centre, up ar.d down, and left sufficiently long to allow its 
being taken hold of to remove the sponge, once a day, or every 
other day at the farthest, for the purpose of washing, cleaning, and 
using the necessary injections ; and this must be done while the 
patient is lying down, to prevent the womb from again falling or 
prolapsing. After having injected some of the above tea, wet the 
sponge in the same, and introduce it sufficiently high to hold the 
womb in its place. If pain is felt about the head, back, or loins 
for a few days before the menses appear, prepare and use the fol- 
lowing : 

^ - - p^^ ^^^ oxide of iron, 1 

oz. ; oil of tansey, 1 dr. ; 
tincture of ergot, 3 drs.; tincture Spanish tlies, ^ oz. ; mix all, and 
shake when taken. Dose, 1 teaspoon 3 times daily, to be taken in 
mu«ilage of slippery elm or gum arable, and drink freely of the 
mucilage also through the day, or use the following : 

Emmenagogub Pill. — Precipitated carbonate of iron and gum 
myrrh, of each 2 drs. ; aloes and tincture of Spanish flies, of each 
1 dr. ; and oil of savin, 1 dr. ; all to be pulverized, and made into 
100 pills by using thick gum solution. Dose, 1 pill, from 1 to 3 
times daily, but not to move the bowels too much. 

Uterine Hemorrhages. — Unfailing cure. Sugar of lead, 10 grs.; 



Emmenagogce Tincture. — Alcohol, 1 
oz. ; oils of juniper and savin, each i 



ergot, 10 grs. ; opium, 3 



grs. 



ipecac, 1 gr. ; all pulverized and 



well mixed. Dose, 10 to 12 grs. ; given in a little honey or syrup. 

In ^ery bad cases after childbirth, it might be repeated in 30 
minutes, or the dose increased to 15 or 18 grs. ; but in cases of ra- 
ther profuse wasting, repeat it once at the end of 3 hours, or as 
the urgency of the case may require. 

In every case of female debility make a liberal use of iron, as the 
want of iron in the system is often the cause of the trouble. Mix 
fine iron filings with as much ground ginger. Dose, half of a tea- 
spoon 3 times daily in a little honey or molasses, increasing or 
lessening the dose to produce .-, blackness of the sterols. Continue 
this course until well. 

Nerve and Bone Liniment. — Beef's gall. 1 qt. ; alcohol, 1 pt. ; vo- 
latile liniment, 1 lb. ; spts. of turpentine, 1 lb. ; oil origanum, 4 oz. ; 
aqua ammonia, 4 Oi:. ; tincture of cayenne, f pt. ; oil of amber, 3 
oz. ; tincture Spanish flies, G oz. ; mix well. 

Cephalic SwuFi'. — Take asarabacca leaves, marjoram, light 
Scotch snufi^, equal parts ; grind tiiem and sift, use like common 
snufF. 

DowNEr.';^ Salve. — Beeswax, 4 oz. ; opium, i oz. ; sugar of lead, 
i oz, ; melt the beeswax, and rub the lead up in the wax, then the 
opium, then 1 gill of sweet oil, incorporate all thoroughly to- 
gether, spread lightly on cloth; good for burns, piles. &c. 



AN(i 

and rd 

1 gillJ 
VVhI 

hone] 

spoonl 

water! 

LiqI 
phor, 
each 1 
G oz. si 

GreI 
back 
wax, 



&c. 



and sugar of 
d loaf sugar, 

-Not only the 

piece of fine 

imp of being 

The sponge 

imes through 

to allow its 

lay, or every 

cleaning, and 

ne while the 

lin falling or 

( tea, wet the 

I to hold the 

)ack, or loina 

i use the fol- 

ie of iron, 1 
ansey, 1 dr. ; 
mix all, and 
) be taken in 
freel}' of the 

on and gum 
flies, of each 
d made into 
, from 1 to 3 

ead, 10 grs.; 
verized and 
ey or sj^rup. 
eated in 30 
cases of ra- 
hours, or as 

iron, as the 
ouble. Mix 
alf of a tea- 
creasing or 
Continue 

)1, 1 pt. ; vo- 
num, 4 oz. ; 
of amber, 3 

•ram, light 
te common 

i^ar of lead, 
X, then the 
oughly to- 
;c. 



DRUGGIST S RECEIPTS. 



51 






Another Salve. — Burgundy pitch, beeswax, white pine pitch, 
and rosin, 1 oz. each, mutton tallow, 8 oz. ; goose oil, 1 gill, tar, 
1 gill, melt and mix thoroughly. A first-rate salve. 

Whooping Cough Syrup. — Best rum, 1 pt. ; anise oil, 2 ozs. ; 
honey, Ipt-i leraou juice. 4 oz., mix. Dose for adults, 1 table- 
spoouful, 3 or 4 times per day ; children I teaspoon, with sugar and 
water. 

Liquid Opodeldoc. — Warm brandy, 1 qt. ; add to it gum cam- 
phor, 1 oz. ; sal ammoniac, \ oz. ; oils of origanum and rosemary, 
each J oz. ; oil wormwood, J oz. ; when the oils are dissolved, add 
G oz. soft soap. 

Green Mountain Salve. — For rheumatism, burns, pains in the 
back or side, ka., take 2 lbs. rosin burgundy pitch, I lb. ; bees- 
wax, i lb. ; mutton tallow, i lb. ; melt slowly ; when not too 
warm, add oil hemlock, 1 oz. ; balsam fir, 1 oz ; oil of origanum, 
1 oz. ; oil of red cedar, 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine, I oz. ; oil of 
wormwood, 1 oz. ; verdigris, i oz. The verdigris must be finely- 
pulverized and mixed with the oils ; then add as above, and worli 
in cold water like wax till cold enough to roll ; rolls 5 inches 
long, I inch diameter, sell for 25 cents. 

English Remedy for Cancer.— Take chloride of zinc, blood- 
root pulverized, and flour, equal quantities of each, worked into a 
paste and applied. First spread a common sticking-plaster much 
larger than the cancer, catting a circular piece from the centre of 
it a little larger than the cancer, applying it, which exposes a 
narrow rim of healthy skin ; then apply the cancer plaster, and 
keep it on 24 hours. On removing it, the cancor will be found to bo 
burned into, and appears the color of an old shoe-sole, and the rim 
outside will appear white and parboiled, as if burned by steam. 
Dress with slippery elm poultice until suppuration takes place, 
then heal with any common salve. 

Chronic Gout — To Cure. — Take hot vinegar, and put into it 
all the table salt which it will dissolve, and bathe the parts affected 
with a soft piece of flannel. Rub in with the hand, and dry the foot, 
&c., by the fire. Repeat this operation four times in the 24 hours, 
15 minutes each time, for four days ; then twice a day for the same 
period ; then once, and follow this rule whenever the symptoms 
show themselves at any future time. 

Gout Tincture. — Veratrum viride (swamp hellebore), ^ oz. ; 
opium, \ oz. ; wine, J pt. ; let them stand for several days. Dose, 
15 to 30 drops, according to the robustness of the patient, at inter- 
vals of 2. to 4 hours. 

Paralytic Liniment. — Sulphuric ethcf, 6 oz. ; alcohol, 2 oz. ; 
laudanum, 1 oz. ; oil of lavender, 1 oz. ; mix, and cork tightly. 
In a recent case of paralysis let the whole extent of the numb 
surface be thoroughly bathed and rubbed with this preparation, 
for several minutes, using the hand, at least three times daily ; at 
the same time take internally, 20 drops of the same, in a lit le 
sweetened water, to prevent translation upon some internal 
organ. 

Charcoal a Cupe for Sick Headache. — It is stated that 2 tea 
spoons of finely powdered charcoal, drank in i a tumbler of water 
will, in less than fifteen minutes, give relief to the sick headache, 



0<J 



DRUGGIST S RECEIPTS. 



I; 4 

■'II 

|I<S 



when caused, as in most cases it is, by superabundance of acid on 
the stomach. We have fn'quently tried this remedy, and its efficacy 
in every instance has been signally satisfactory. 

Cathartic Syrup. — Best senna leaf, I oz. ; butternut, the inner 
bark of the root, dried and b,ruised, 2 oz. ; peppermint leaf, ^ oz. ; 
fennel seed, i oz. ; alcohol, ^ pt. ; water, Ij pts. ; sugar, 2 lbs. ; put 
all into the spirit and water, except the sugar, and let it stand two 
weeks, then stn. iij pressing out from the dregs, adding the sugar 
and simmering a lew minutes only, to form the syrup. If it should 
cause griping in any case, increase the fennel seed and pepper- 
mint leaf. Dose, 1 tablespoon, once a day, or less often if the 
bowels become too loose, up to the next period when the headache 
might have been expected, and it will not be forthcoming. 

Chilblains. — To Cuke. — Mutton tallow and lard, of each i lb. ; 
melt iu au iron vessel, and add hydrated. oxy' "» of iron, 2 oz. ; 
siuring continually with an iron spoon, until fJ ^ mass is ot a 
uniform black color; then let it cool, and add Venice turpentine, 
2 oz. ; Armenian bole, 1 oz. ; oil of bergamot, 1 dr. ; rub up the 
bole with a little olive oil before putting it in. 

Felons. — If Recent, to Curb in Six Hours. — Venice turpentine, 
I oz ; and put into it half a teaspoon of water, and stir with a 
rough stick until the mass looks like candied honey ; then sp.read 
a good coat or. a cloth, and wrap around the finger. If the case 
is uuly recent, it will remove the pain in six hours. 

Felon Salve. — A salve made by burning one tablespoon of 
copperas, then pulverizing it and mixing it with the yolk of an egg, 
is said to relieve the pain, and cure the felon in 24 hours ; tliea 
lii'al with cream two parts, and soft soap one part. Apply the 
healing salve daily after soaking the part in warm water. 

Felon Ointment. — Take sweet oil, ^ pt., and stew a 3-cent 
I)lug of tobacco in it until the tobacco is crisped; then squeeze it 
out, and add red lead, 1 oz. ; and boil until black; when a little 
cool, add pulverized camphor gum, 1 oz. 

Warts and Corns. — To Curb in Ten ' inutes.^ — Take a small" 
piece of potash, and let it stand in the open air until it slacks, 
ih(;n thicken it to a paste with pulverized gum arable, which pre- 
viMits it from spreading where it is not wanted. 

Gkkjian RuEU.MATic Fluid. — Oils of hemlock and cedar, of each 
^ oz. , oils of origanum and sassafras, each 1 oz. ; aqua ammonia, 
1 oz, , capsicum pulverized, 1 oz.; spirits of turpentine and gum 
camphor, each ^ oz, ; put all into a quart bottle, and fill with 95 
\ier cent alcohol. 

Dose, for colic, for man, Imlf a teaspoonful ; for a horse, ^ to 1 oz., 
in a little warm water, every 15 minutes, till relieved. 

Ljniment for Old Sores. — Ale )hol, jL qt. ; aqua ammonia, 4 oz. ; 
oil of origanum, 2 oz. ; camphoi- gum, 2 oz. ; opium, 2 oz. ; gum 
myrrh, 2 oz. ; common salt, two tablespoons. Mix, and shake occa- 
sionally for a week. 

Liniment.— Good Samaritan.— Take 98 per cf \t alcohol, 2 qts.-, 
and add to it the following articles : Oils of sassafras, hemlock, 
spirits of irpentine, tincture of cayenne, catechu, guaiac (guac), 
and laudanum, of each, 1 oz. ; tincUire of myrrh, 4 oz. ; oil ot'origa- 
iiuui, 2 vz ; -nl ot v,^intergreen, ^ oz. ; gum camphor. 2 oz. ; a,n(\ 






chlorc 
pains 
work, I 

Cot 
amber 
beef's! 
occasil 
a strol 

Loi 
nia, oil 



DRUOaiST S RECEIPTS. 



53 



of acid on 
[its efficacy 

, the inner 
leaf, ^ oz. ; 
2 lbs. ; put 
stand two 

the sugar 
f it should 
id peppor- 
ftcn if the 

headache 

or. 

ach i lb. ; 
on, 2 oz. ; 
iss is ot a 
urpentine, 
ub up the 

urpentine, 
tir with u 
en spread 
' the case 

ispoon of 

Dfauegg, 

irs ; the a 

pply the 

a 3-cent 

uee/.e it 

a little 

a small 
slacks, 

lich pro- 
of each 

Titnonia, 
id gum 

with 95 

to 1 oz., 

>, 4 oz. ; 
; gum 
:e occa- 

2qt3.-, 
^mlock, 
(guac), 
t origa- 
i and 



. , mix^ and shake 
This will be found 






chloroform, 1 J oz. This is one of the best applications for internal 
pains known : it is superior to any other enumerated in this 
work , 

Cook's Elhctro-Maonbtic Linimknt. — Best alcohol, 1 gal. ; oil of 
amber, 8 oz. ; gum camphor, 8 oz. ; Castile soap, shaved nnej 2 oz. 
beef's gall, 4 oz. ; ammonia, 3 F.'s strong, 12 oz. 
occasionally for 12 hours, and it is fit for use. 
a strong and valuable liniment. 

London Liniment.— Take chloroform, olive oil^ and aqua ammo- 
nia, of each 1 oz. ; acetate of morphia, 10 grs. Mix and use as other 
^miments. Very valuable. 

Ointments.— FaR Old Sores. — Red precipitate^ i oz. ; sugar of 
lead, I oz. ; burnt alum, 1 oz. ; white vitriol, i oz., or a little less ; 
all to be very finely puiverized ; have mutton tallow made warm, 
^ lb. ; stir all in, and stir until cool. 

Judkin's Ointment. — Linseed oil, 1 pt. ; sweet oil, 1 oz.; and boil 
them in a kettle on coals for nearly 4 hours, &p warm aa you can ; 
then have pulverized and m^xed borax, J oz. ; red lead, 4 oz. ; and 
sugar ,of lead, 1 J oz, ; remove the kettle from the fire, and thicken 
in the powder ; continue the stirring until cooled to blood heat, 
then stir in 1 oz. < dpirits of turpentine ; and now take out a little, 
letting it ^et cold, and if not then' juflBciently thick to spread upon 
thin soft Imen as a salve, you will boil again until this point is 
reached. It is good for all kinds of wounds, bruises, sores, burns, 
white swellings, rheumatisms, ulcers, sore breasts ; and even where 
there are wounas on the inside, it has been used with advantage, 
. by applying a plaster over the part. 

Green Ointment.— Honey and bees'-wax, each Jib.; spirits of 
turpentine, 1 oz. ; wintergreen oil and laudanum, each 2 oz. ; ver- 
digris, finely pulverized, | oz. ; lard, IJ lb. ; mix by a stove fire, in 
a copper kettle, heating slowly. 

Mead's Salt-Rheum Ointment. — Aquafortis, 1 oz.^ quicksilver, 
1 oz.' good hard soap, dissolved so as to mix readily, 1 oz. ; pre- 
pared chalk, 1 oz. ; mixed with 1 lb. of lard ; incorporate the abovo 
by putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into EtU earthen vesse^ 
and when done effervescing, mix with the other ingredients, put- 
ting the chalk in last ; add a little spirits of turpentine, say J taole- 
spoon. 

Itch Ointment.— Unsalted butter, 1 lb. ; burgundy pitch, 2 oz. ; 
spirits of turpentine, 2 oz.; red precipitate, pulverized, IJ oz. ; 
melt the pitch and add the-butter, stirring well together ; then re- 
move from the fire, and when a little cool add the spirits of tuiv 
pentine, and lastly the precipitate, and stir until cold. 

Magnetic Ointment. — Said to be Trask's. — Hard raisins cut i& 
pieces, and fine-cut tobacco, equal weights ; simmer well together, 
then strain, and press out all from the dregs. 

Jaundice.- In its IVorst Forms. — Red iodide of mercury, 7 grs. 
iodide of potassium, 9 grs. ; aqua dis. (distilled water) 1 oz. ; mix. 
Commence by giving 6 drops 3 or 4 times a day, increasing 1 drop 
a day until 12 or 15 drops are given at a dose. Give in a little 
water, immediately after meals. If it causes a griping sensation in 
the bowels, and" fulness in the head, when you get up to 12 or 15 
drops, go back to G drops, and up again as before. 



54 



DRBTGaiST » RECEIPTS, 



,1 1 Inflammatory Rheumatism. — Sulphur and saltpetre, of each I 

; oz. ; gum guaiac, i oz. ; coichicum root, or seed, and nutmegs, of 

' ea«h i oz. ; all to be pulverized and mixed with simple syrup, or 

molasses, 2 oz. Dose, one teaspoon every 2 hours until it moves 

the bowels rather freely; then 3 or 4 times daily until cured. 

RBM«ii.¥ FQK Rheumatism and Stiff Joints. — Strong camphor 
spirits, 1 pt. ; neafs-foot, coon, bear, or skunk's oil, 1 pt. ; spirits of 
turpentine, J pt^ Shake the bottle when used, and apoly 3 times 
daily,, by pouring on a little at a time, and rubbing in all you can 
for 20 or 30 miati.t«g. 

AsTQMA RwiBDiBS. — Elecampane^ angelica, comfrey, and spike- 
nard roota with hoarhound tops, of each 1 oz. ; bruise and steep in 
honey, 1 pt. Dosej a tablespoon, taken hot every few minutes, 
until relief is obtained, then several times daily until a curtt is 
efFectedi 

Another. — Oil of tar, 1 dr. ; tincture of veratrum viride, 2 drs. ; 
simple syrup, 2 drs. ; mix. Dose, for adults, 15 drops 3 or 4 times 
daily. iQdide of potassium has cured a bad case of asthma by 
taking 6 gr. doses 3 times daily. Take | oz. and put it into a phial, 
and add 32 teaspoons of water ; then 1 teaspoon of it will contain 
the 5 grs., which put into J gill more water, and drink before 
meals. 

Composition Powder— Thompson's.— Bayberry bark, 2 lbs. ; hem- 
lock bark, 1 lb. ; ginger root, 1 lb. ; cayenne pepper, 2 oz. , cloves, 2 
oz. ; all nnely pulverized and well mixed. Dose, J a teaspoon 
of it, and a spoon of sugar ; put them into a tea-cup, and pour it 
half full of boiling water ; let it stand a few minutes, and fill the cup 
with milk J and drink freely. If no milk is to be obtained, fill up 
the •up with hot water. 

French Remedy for Chronic Rheumatism.— Dr. Bonnet, of Graul- 
bet,iFraQCe, stales in a letter to the " Abeille Medicale," that he has 
been long in the habit of prescribing " the essential oil of turpentine 
by friction for rheumatism; and that he has used it himself 
with perfect success, having almost instantaneously got rid of 
rheumatic pains in both knees and in the left shoulder." 

Diuretics — Pills, Drops, Decoction, &c. — Solidified copaiba, 2 
jarts ; alcoholic extract of cubebs, 1 part ; formed into pills with a 
ittl© oil of juniper. Dose, 1 or 2 pills 3 or 4 times daily. This pill 
i»g be^n found very valuable in affections of the kidneys, bladoer, 
and urethra, as inflammation from gravel, gonorrhoea, gleet, whites, 
leuoorrheea, commpu inflammations, &c.' For giving them a sugar 
coat, Me that heading, if desired. 

DiuRETiO Daops.— Oil of cubebs, i oz. ; sweet spirits of nitre, ^ 
oz. ; balsam of sopaiba, 1 oz. ; Harlem oil, 1 bottle ; oil of lavender, 
20 drops;, spirita of turpentine, 20 drops;. mix. Dose, 10 to 25 
drops, as tlie gtomacli will bear, three times daily. 

It may he used in any of the above diseases with great satisfac- 
tion. 

Diuretic Tincture. — Green or growing spearmint mashed, put 
into a bottle, and covered with gin, is an excellent diuretic. 

Diuretic for Children. — Spirits of nitre — a few drops in a little 
spearmint tea — is all sufficient. For very young children, 
juiaipkin-secd, or water-melon seed tea is perhaps the best, 



nEXJGGIST 8 RECEIPTS. 



54a 



Magnetic Pain Killer, for Toothache and Aoutb Pain.— Lau- 
danum 1 dr. gum camphor 4 drs. oil of cloves ^ dr. oil of lavender 
1 dr. add then to 1 oz. alcohol, 6 drs. sulphuric ether, and 5 fluid drs. 
chloroiorm. Apply with liut, or for toothache rub on the gums, 
and upon the face against the teeth. 

Curb for Snake Bites. — The Inspector of Police in the Bengal 
Government reports that of 939 cases in which ammonia wasfreely 
administered 702 victims have recovered, and in the cured instances 
the remedy was not administered till about 3J hours after the 
attack, on the average of the fatal cases the corresponding duration 
of time was 4j hours. 

Nitrous Oxide, or LAuamNO Gas. — Take two or three ounces of 
nitrate of ammonia in crystals and put it iuto a retort, taking care 
that the heat does not exceed 500** ; when the crystals begin to melt, 
the gas will be produced in considerable quantities. The gas may 
also be procured, though not so pure, by pouring nitric acid, diluted 
with five or six times its weight of water, on copper filings or small 
pieces of tin. The gas is given out till the acid begius to turn 
brown ; the process must then be stopped. 

To Inhale the Laughing Gas. — Procure an oiled or varnished 
Bilk bag, or a bladder, furnished with a stop-cock into the mouth 
and at the same time hold the nostrils, and the sensation produced 
will be of a highly pleasing nature ; a great propensity to laughter, 
a rapid flow of vivid ideas, and an unusual fitness for muscular 
exertion, are the ordinary feeling which it produces. The sensation, 
produced by breathing this gas, are not the same in all persons, 
but thej are >f an agreeable nature, and not followed by any 
depression of spirits like those occasioned by fermented liquors. 

Chewing Gubt. — Take of prepared balsam of tolu, 2 oz. white 
sugar 1 oz. oatmeal 3 ozs. soften the gum in a water bath and mix in 
the ingredients ; then roll in finely-powdered sugar or flour to form 
sticks to suit. 

Black Stkncil Ink. — Triturate together 1 pt. pine soot and 2 pta 
Prussian blue with a little glycerine, then add 3 pts. gum arable 
and sufficient glycerine to form a thin paste. 

Remedy for Small Pox. — Sulphate of zinc 1 gr. foxglove 
[digitalis,! 1 gr. sugar ^ teaspoonful, mix with 2 teaspoonfuls of 
water, add 4 oz. of water, dose 1 spoonful every hour, child in pro- 
portion. From experience it is known that nothing will break up 
this frightful disease sooaer than continued and persevering bath- 
ing with the water at a comfortable temperature. See page 254. 

The four following receipts are said to be genuine. 

Ayer's Wild Cherry Expectorant. — Mix together 3grs. acetate 
of morphia, 2 fluid drs. tinct blood-root, 3 fluid drs. each antimonial 
wine and ipecacuanha wine, and 3 fluid ozs. syrup of wild cherry 
bark. Dose 1 teaspoonful in catarrh, bronchitis, and influenza. 

Radway's Ready Relief. — According to Peckolt, is an ethereal 
tincture of capsicum, with alcohol and camphor. 

Radway's Renovating Resolvent. — A vinous tincture of ginger 
and cardamom, sweetened with sugar. 

Ayer's Sarsaparilla. — Take 3 fluid ozs. each of alcohol, fluid 
extracts of sarsparilla and of stillingia ; 2 fluid ozs. each, extract of 



yellow-dock and of podophyllin, 1 oz. 
potassium, and 10 grs. iodide of iron. 



sugar, 90 grs., iodide of 



546 



druggist's EEOEIPTS. 



rNflAiiATiON OF Tar fob Consumption. — Mix together 16 ozs. of 
liquid tar aud 1 fluid oz. liquor of potassa, boil them for a few 
minutes in the open air, then let it simmer in an iron vessel over a 
spirit or other lamp in the chamber of the patient. This may at 
first excite a disposition to cough, but m a short time it allays it, 
and removes any tendency to it 

Cancbu Cukb. — Drink a tea made from the tops of red clover; 
about 1 qt. per day should be taken internally, and the tea should 
be used as a wash twice per day ; very strongly recommended. 

Taylob's Kemsoy for Deafnbss. — Digest 2 ozs. bruised garlic in 
1 lb. oil of almonds for a week and stram. A drop poured into the 
ear is effective in temporary deafness. 

Cork for Earache. — Take equal parts of chloroform and lauda- 
num, dip a piece of cotton into the mixture and introduce into the 
ear, and cover up and get to ^eep as soon as possible. 

Ottawa Root Beer.— Take 1 oz. each of sassafras, allspice 
yellow-dock and winter green ; ^ oz. each wild cherry bark and 
coriander ; \ oz. hops and 3 qts. molasses. Pour sufficient boiling 
water on the ingredients and let them stand 24 hours, filter the 
liquor and add J- pt. yeast, and it is ready for use in 24 noui-s, 

To Extract Essential Oil from Wood, Bajiks. Roots Herbs, &c. 
— Take balm, mint, sage, or any other herb, «c., put it into a 
bottle, and pour upon it a spoonful of ether ; keep in a cool place 
a few hours, atod then fill the bottle with cold water ; the essential 
oil will swim upon the surface and may be easily separated. 

Pumiqatikq Paper. — Dip light paper in a solution of alum, 
strength of alum 1 oz. water 1 pt. Dry thoroughly and on one 
side spread a mixture ot equal parts of gum benzoin^ oilbanum, or 
Peruvian balsam, melt the gums in an earthenware dish and spread 
with a hot spatula, slips of the paper are held over a light when 
the odorous matter will be evaporated, the alum preventing the 
paper from igniting. 

Transparent Cement for Glass. — Dissolve 1 part Indian rubber 
in chloroform, and add 16 parts by measure of gum mastic in 
powder. Digest for 2 days, shaking the bottle frequently, apply 
with a fine camel's hair brush. 

Mouth Wash. — Proof spirits 1 qt. borax and honey, of each 1 oz. 
gum myrrh 1 oz. red sanders wood 1 oz. Rub the honey and borax 
well together in a mortar, then gradually add the spirit, the myrrh 
and sanders wood and macerate 14 days. 

Camphor Soaps. — Curd soap 28 lbs, otto of rosemary IJ lbs. 
Reduce the camphor to powder, add one ounce almond oil then 

melted and ready to turn out, adcl the 



-Curd soap 1 cwt. marine soap 21 lbs. oil 
IJ lbs. oil thyme and rosemary of each 



sift it, when the soap la 
camphor and rosemary 

White Windsor Soap.- 

8oap 14 lbs, oil caraway, _^ _ _ . 

^ lb. oils of cassia and cloves of each i lb. 

Brown Windsor Soap. — Curd soap 3 cwt. marine soap i cwt. 
yellow soap i cwt oil soap, i cwt. Brown coloring (caramel) o pt. 
oils caraway, cloves, thyme, cassia, petit grain and French laven- 
der of each 2 oz, 

Sand Soap. — Curd soap 7 lbs. marine soap 7 lbs. sifted silver soap 
28 lbd» Qila thyme, cassia caraway aad, French lavender of each 2 oz 



druggist's receipts. 



6lJ 



16 ozs. of 
for a few 
3sel over a 
his may at 
i allays ii, 

ed clover; 
tea should 
3uded. 
d garlic in 
ed into the 

3,nd lauda- 
e iuto the 

3, allspice 
bark aud 
jat boiling, 
filter the 
lours, 
Herbs, &c. 
; it into a 
cool place 
e essential 
I ted. 

of alum, 

jnd on one 

banum, or 

ind spread 

ght when 

ntiug the 

;an rubber 
mastic in 
y, apply 

each 1 oz. 
nd borax 
the myrrh 

try 1^ lbs. 
oil then 
add the 

21 lbs. oil 
y of each 

ip i cwt. 
mel) 2 pt. 
ch laven- 

ilver soap 
each 2 oz- 



Dropst. — Syrup and Pills. — Queen-of-the-meadow root dwarf- 
elder flowers, berries, or inner bark, juniper berries, horse-radish 
root, pod milkweed, or silkweed. often called, root of each, 4 oz. ; 
prickly-ash bark or berries, manarake root, bittersweet bark, of the 
root of each, 2 oz. ; white-mustard seed, 1 oz. ; Holland gin, 1 pt. 
Pour boiling water upon all except the gin, and keep hot for 
12 hours ; then boil and pour off twice, ana boil down to 3 qts., 
and strain, adding 3 lbs. of sugar, and lastly the gin. Dose, take 
all the stomach will bear, say a wine glass a day, or more. 

Dropsy Pii.ls. — Jalap, 50 grs. ; gamboge, 30 grs. ; podophylHn, 
20 grs. ; elatarium, 12 grs. ; aloes, 30 grs. ; cayenne, 35 grs. ; Castile 
soap, shaved and pulverized, 20 grs. ; croton oil, 90 drops ; powder 
all finely, and mix thoroughly ; then form into pill mass, by using 
a thick mucilage made of equal parts of gum arable and gum 
tragacanth, and divide in three-grain pills. Dose, 1 pill every 2 
days for the first week ; then every 3 or 4 days, until the water is 
evacuated by the combined aid of the pill with the alum syrup. 
This is a powerful medicine, and will thoroughly accomplish its 
Work. 

Liver Pill. — Leptandrin, 40 grs. ; podophylHn and cayenne, 30 
grs. each ; sanguinarin, iridin, and ipecac, 15 grs. each ; see that 
all are pulverized and well mixed ; then form into pill mass by 
using ^ dr. of the soft extract of mandrake and a few drops of 
anise oil, then roll out into three- grain pills. Dose, 2 pills taken 
at bed- time will generally operate by morning ; but some persons ^ 
require 3. 

Irritating Plaster. — Extensively Used by Eclectics. — Tar, 1 
lb. ; burgundy pitch, J oz. ; white-pine turpentine, 1 oz. ; resin, 2 
oz. Boil the tar, resin, and gum together a short time, remove 
from the fire, and stir in finely pulverized mandrake root, blood 
root, poke root, and Indian turnip, of each, 1 oz. 

Pills. — To Sugar Coat. — Pills to be sugar coated must be very 
dry, otherwise they will shrink away from the coating, and leave 
it a shell easily crushed off. When they are dry, you will take 
starchj gum arable, and white sugar, equal parts, rubbing them 
very fine in a marble mortar, and if damp, they must be dried 
before rubbing together ; then put the powder into a suitable pan, 
or box, for shaking; now put a few pills into a small tin box 
having a cover, and pour on to them just a little simple syrup,' 
shakin^ well to moisten the surface only ; then throw into the box 
of povrder, and keep in motion until completely coated, dry, and 
smooth. 

If you are not very careful, you will get too much syrup upon 
the pills ; if you do, put in more, and be quick about it to prevent 
moistening the pill too much, getting them into the powder as 
soon as possible. 

PosiTivK Curb for Hydrophobia. — The dried root of elecampane, 
pulverize it, and measure out 9 heaping itablespoonf uls, and mix it 
with 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of pulverized gum arable ; then divide into 
9 equal portions. When a person is bitten by a rabid animal, take 
one of these portions, and steep it in 1 pt. of new milk, until 
nearly half the quantity of milk is evaporated ; then strain, and 
drink it in the morning, fasting for 4 or 5 hours after. The same- 



4 



56 



DRUaaiST 8 RECEIPTS, 



(loao is to be repeated 3 morninga in succession, then skip 3, anil 
so on, until the 9 doses are taken. 

The patient must avoid getting wet, or the heat of the sun, and 
abstain from high-seasoned diet, or hard exercise, and, if costive, 
take a dose of salts. The above quantity is for an adult ; children 
will take less according to age. 

Eyk Preparations. — Eve Watkr. — Table salt and white vitriol, 
ofeach 1 tablespf on; heat them upon copperplates or in earthen, 
ware until dry ; the heating drives ofif the acrid water, called the 
water of crystallization, making them much milder in their action; 
now add to them soft water \ pt. ; putting in white sugarj 1 table- 
spoon ; blue vitriol, a piece tlie size of a common pea. If it should 
prove too strong in any case, add a little more soft water to a 
pliial of it. Apply it to the eyes 3 or 4 times daily. 

India Prescription for Sorb Eyeh. — Sulphate of zinc, 3 grs. ; 
tintjture of opium (laudanum), 1 dr. ; rose water, 2 cz. ; mix. Put 
a drop or two in the eye, 2 or 3 times daily. 

Anothbr. — Sulphate of zinc, acetate of lead, and rock salt, of 
each J oz. ; loaf sugar, 1 oz. ; soft water, 12 oz. j mix without 
heat, and use as other eye waters. 

If sore eyes shed much water, put a little of the oxide of zinc into 
a phial of water, and use it rather freely. This will soon effect a 
cure. • 

Copperas and water has cured sore eyes of long standing ; and 
used quite strong, it makes an excellent application in erysipelas. 

Indian Eye Water. — Soft water, 1 pt. : gum arabic, 1 oz. ; white 
vitriol. 1 oz. ; fine salt, <[ teaspoon ; put all into a bottle, and shake 
until dissolve:!. Put into the eye just as you retire to bed. 

Black Oil. — Best alcohol, tincture of arnica, British oil, and oil 
of tar, of each 2 oz. ; and slowly add sulphuric acid, i oz. 

These black oils are gettmginto extensive use as a liniment, and 
are indeed valuable, especially in cases attended with much inflam- 
mation. 

VERMiFuaB Lozenges. — Santonin, 60 grs. ; pulverized sugar, 5 
oz. ; mucilage of gum tragacanth, sufficient to make into a thick 
paste, worked carefully together, that the santonin shall be evenly 
mixed throughout the whole mass; then, if not in too great a 
hurry, cover up the mortar in which you have rubbed them, and 
let stand from 12 to 24 hours to temper ; at which time they will 
roll out better than if done immediately ; divide into 120 lozenges. 
D'>se, for a child 1 year old, 1 lozenge, night and morning ; of 2 
years, 2 lozenges; of 4 years, 3; of 8 years, 4; of 10 years or 
more, 5 to 7 lozenges ; in all cases, to be taken twice daily, and 
continuing until the worms start on a voyage of discovery. 

Harlem Oil or Welsh Medicamentum. — Sublimed or flowers of 
sulphu" and oil of amber, of each 2 oz. ; linseed oil, 1 lb. ; spirita 
of turpentine suificient to reduce all to the consistence of thin 
molasses. Boil the sulphur in the linseed oil until it is dissolved, 
then add the oil of amber and turpentine. Dose, from 15 to 25 
drops, morning and evening. 

Amongst the Welsh and Germans it is extensively used for 
strengthening the stomach, kidnpys, liver, and lungs; for asthma, 
shortness of breath, cough, inward or outward sores, dropsy, 



i 



DRUOaiST S RECEIPTS. 



57 



11 



skip 3, anil 

he sun, and 
, if costive, 
t ; children 

hite vitriol, 
in earthtn; 
, called the 
leir action ; 
arj 1 table- 
If It should 
water to a 

no, 3 grs. ; 
mix. Put 

ck salt, of 
ii without 

•f zinc into 
on effect a 

ding; and 

erysipelas. 

oz. ; white 

and shake 

ed. 

>il, and oil 

z. 

iment.and 

ch innam" 

, sugar, 5 
to a thick 
be evenly 

great a 
them, and 

they will 
lozenges. 

ing ; of 2 
years or 

iaily, and 

7- 

flowers of 
). ; spirits 
!e of thin 
iissolved, 

1 15 to 25 

used for 
r asthma, 
, dropsy, 



§ worms, gravel, fevers, palpitation of the heart, giddiness, head- 

ache, &c., by taking it internally ; and for ulcers, malignant sores, 
cankers, Ac, anointing externally, and wetting linen with it, 
and applying to burns. 

Egyptian Curb for Oholbiia.— Best Jamaica ginger root, bruis- 
ed, 1 oz. ; cayenne, 2 teaspoons ; boil all in 1 qt. of water to J 
pt., and add loaf sugar to form a thick syrup. Dose, 1 table- 
spoon every 15 minutes, until vomiting and purging ceases ; then 
follow up with a blackberry tea. 

Indian Prescription for Cholera. — First dissolvo gum camphor, 
i oz., in li oz. of alcohol; second, give a teaspoon of spirits or 
hartshorn in a wine glass of water, and follow it everv 5 minutes 
with 15 drops of the camphor in a teaspoon of water, for 3 doses; 
then wait 15 minutes, and commence again ac befor* ; and con- 
tinue the camphor for 30 minutes, unless there is returning heat. 
Should this bo the case, give one more dose, and ibo cure is effect- 
ed ; let them perspire freely (which the medicine is designed to 
cause), as upon this the life depends, but add no additional 
clothing. 

Isthmus Cholera Tincture. — Tincture of rhubarb, cayenne, 
opium, and spirits of camphor, with essence of peppermint, equal 
parts of each, and each as strong as can be made. Dose, from 5 
to 30 drops, or even to 60, and repeat, until relief is obtained, 
every 5 to 30 minutes. 

Kino of Oils, for Neuralgia and Rheumatism. — Burning fluid, 1 
pt. ; oils of cedar, hemlock, sassafras, and origanum, of each 2 
oz. ; carbonate of ammonia, pulverized, 1 oz. ; mix. Directions. — 
Apply freely to the nerve and gums around the tooth ; and to the 
face, in neuralgic pains, by wetting brown paper and laying on 
the parts, not too long, for fear of blistering, — to the nerves of 
teeth by lint. 

Neuralgia. — Internal Remedy. — Sal-ammoniac, J dr., dissolve 
in water, 1 oz. Dose, one tablespoon every 3 minutes, for 20 
minutes, at the end of which time, if not before, the pain will have 
disappeared. 

Artificial Skin. — For Burns, Bruises, Abrasions, &c.— Proof 
against Water. — Take gun cotton and Venice turpentine, equal 
parts of each, and dissolve them in 20 times as much sulphuric 
ether, dissolving the cotton first, then adding the turpentine ; keep 
it corked tightly. Water does not affect it, hence its value for 
cracked nipples, chapped hands, surface bruises, Ac, Ac. 

Indian Balsam. — Clear, pale rosin, 3 lbs., and melt it, adding 
spirits of turpentine, 1 qt. , balsam of tolu, 1 oz. ; balsam of fir, 4 
oz. ; oil of hemlock, origanum, with Venice turpentine, of each, 1 
oz. ; strained honey, 4 oz. ; mix well, and bottle. Dose, 6 to 12 
drops ; for a child of six, 3 to 5 drops, on a little sugar. The dope 
can be varied according to the ability of the stomach to bear it, 
and the necessity of the case. 

It is a valuable preparation for coughs, internal pains, or strains, 
and works benignly upon the kidneys. 

Wens — To Curb. — Dissolve copperas in water to make it very 
strong ; now take a pin, needle, or sharp knife, and prick, or cut 
the wen in about a dozen places, just sufficient to cause it to 



1 



58 



D&uaaxsT s recbipts. 



i^L'lUiJA 



» I • 



bleed; then wet it thoroughly with the copperas water, on<f« 
daily. i 

Baoiroiiocaiii. — Bvlaboid Nick.— To Cdri.— Iodide of potassium 
(often called bydriodate o&.potasb), 2 drs. ; iodine, 1 dr. ; water. 2^ 
oz. ; mix and shake a few minute^:, and pour a little into a pliial 
for interual use. Doflt, 5 to 10 drops before each meal, to be 
taJcen in a little water. Bxtbrnal Application.— With a feather, 
wet the enlarged neck, from the other bottle, night and morning 
until twell. 

It will cause the i carf skin to peel off several times before the 
cure is perfect, learing it tender, out do not omit the application 
more than one day at most, and you may rest assured of a cure, if 
a cure can be performed bv any means whatever. 

Dalby's Oabminativb.— Magnesia, 2 drs. ; oil peppermint, 3 drops ; 
oil nutmeg, 7 drops ; oil anise, 9 drops } tinct. of castor, 1^ drs. ; 
tinct. of assafoetida, 45 drops ; tinct. ot opium, lU drops ; essence 
penqy-royal, 60 drops; tinct. of cardamoms, 95 drops ; peppermint 
water, 7 oz. : mix. 

PoBiTivs GcRB roR DiARBHOSA. — Take 2 wine glasses of vinegar, 
and one tablespoonf^l of salt. Mix the whole thoroughly to 
dissolve the salt. Add 7 to 10 drops of laudanum, accoraing to 
the age or strength of the patient, and give the whole at one doso. 

Curb BOR Aqub. — Out three lemons mto thin slices and pound 
them with a mallet, then t&ke enough coffee to make a quart, boil 
it down to a fini and nour it while quite hot over the lemons. 
Let it stand till cold, then strain through a cloth, and take tho 
whole at one dose, immediateii/ after the chill is over, and bqfofv 
the fever comes on. 

To Imp&ovb thb Yoiob. — Beeswax, 2 drs. ; copaiba balsam, 3 drs. ; 
powder of liquorice root, 4 drs. ; melt the copaiba balsam with the 
wax in a new earthen pipkin ; when melted, remove them from 
the fire, and mix in the powder; make the pills of 3 grs. each. 
Two of these pills to be taken occasionally, 3 or 4 times a dajr. 
Very best known. 

Sicftfs OF DisDASB IN OhUiDRBN. — In the case of a baby not yet 
able to talk, it must cry when it is ill. The colic makes a baby 
cry loud, long, and passionately, and shed tears— stopping for a 
moment and beginning again. 

If the chest is affected, it gives one sharp cry, breaking off imme- 
diately, as if crying hurt it. 

If the head is affected, it cries, in sharp, pier^nffahriekg, with low 
moans and wail* between. Or there may be quiet dozing, and start- 
ings between. 

It is easy enough to perceive, where a child is attacked by dis- 
ease, that there is some change taking place ; for either its skin will 
be dry and hot, its appetite gone ; it is stupidly sleepy, or fretful 
and crying; it is thirsty, or pale and languid, or in some way 
betravs that something is wrong. When a child vomits, or has a 
diarrhoea, or is costive and feverish, it is owing to some derangement, 
and needs attention. But these various symptoms may continue 
for a day or two before the nature of the dig^wse can be determined. 
A warm bath, warm drinks, etc., can do no harm, and may help to 
determine the case. On coming out of the bath, and being well 



rubbl 

is a 

raahJ 

natclj 

level 

thoul 



DRUGQIHT'S BI0IIFT8. 



59 



rubbed with the hand, the skin will show sjmptomB of rash, if It 

id a skin disease which has commenced. By the appearance of iha 

rash, the nature of the disease can be learned. Measles are in 

>atcne8j dark red. and come out first about the face. If scarlet 

ever is impending, the skin will look a deep pink all over the body, 

ihough most so ' tout the neck and face. Chicken-pox shows 

fever, but not so m oh running at the nose, and appearances of cold, 

as in measles, nor is there as much of a cough. Besides, the spots 

are smaller, and do not run much together, and are more diffused 

over the whole surface of the skin ; and enlarge into little blisters 

in a day or two. 

Let the room where the child is sick be shady, quiet, and cool. 
Be careful not to speak so suddenly as to startle the half-sleeping 
patient, and handle it with the greatest tenderness when it isneces- 
bary to move it. If it is the lungs that sufiE^r, have the little patient 
somewhat elevated upon the piuows for easier breathing, and do 
everything to soothe and make it comfortable, so as not to have it 
cry, and thus distress its inflamed lungs. If the child is very 
weak, do not move it too suddenly, as it may be startled into con- 
vulsions. In administering a bath, the greatest pains must bo 
taken not to frighten the child. It should be put in so gradually, 
and so amused bv someChing placed in the water on purpose as 
to foreet its fear iKeep up a ^ood supply of fresh air, at a tempera- 
ture of about 60° Fah. Ir a hired nurse muat be had, select if possi- 
ble A woman of intelligence, gentle and loving disposition, kind 
and amiable manners, and of a most pacific, unrumed, ana even 
temper. If a being can be got possessed of these angelic qualities, 
and we believe there are many such, you will be quite safe in 
intrusting to her care the manaeemeut of your sick chila, or yourself 
either, in case of sickness. She should not be under twenty-five 
nor over fifty-five, as between these two ages she will, if healthy, 
be in her f\ill strength and capacity. 

Hooping Cocqh.— To empty the child's stomach by a lobelia 
emetic, is the first step. After this make a syrup of sugar, ginger, 
root, a little water, and enough lobelia tincture to produce a slight 
nausea. This^ given two or three times a day, will loosen the cough 
very much. For croup remedy, see " Lock jaw cure," aud " Croup 



)i 



cure. 

DiAKRHOSA. — Nothing is better for looseness of the bowels than 
tea made of ground bavberry. Sweeten it well, and give a half- 
teacupiuf once in two hours, until the child is better. Bathing 
niust not be neglected. 

Cowo. — This can be cured with warm injections, of simple soap- 
suds, or warm water with a warming tincture in it. A little warm 
tea may be given at the same time, and the bowels rubbed. Every 
family should have a small and large syringe. Nothing is oftener 
needed, particularly in the care of children. 

Fbvbr. — Where a child has a simple fever from teething, or any 
other cause not connected with acute disease, give a teaspoonful 
of syrup of rhubarb, a warm injection, and sponge-baths. These 
will generally be all that is needed. 

RiOKKTS and Scrofula.— If chUdren have either of these, or 
both the9€ diseases, a good, nutritive diet is a great essential. 



«0 



druggist's receipts. 



Thwi the alkaline-bath, a little llme-wator, say r, teaspoon- 
ful three times a day, and out-door exercise, are the chief 
rwnedies. 

i ITS— Spasms — ^When these are brought on by indigestion, placo 
the child in a warm bath immediately, give warm water, or a 
]«bclia emetic, rub the skin briskly, etc., to get up an action. In 
brain disease the warm water is equally useful. In fact, unless 
the fit is constitutional, the warm bath will relieve the patient by 
drawing the Llood to the surface. 

Enlar'iehi^nt of thb Drain. — This chiefly affects children, and 
consists in an unnatural giowth of the brain. The skull may 
grow with it, and there be no symptoms of disease, though children 
with this la' ge brain are apt to die of ^me brain disease. The 
symptoms of enlar{;ement or the biain are, dullness of intellect, 
indifference to external objects, irritable temper, inordinate 
appetite^ giddiness, and habitual neadache. Sometimes there are 
convulsions, epileptic fits, and idiocy. There is also a peculiar 
prmection of the parietal bones in this disease. 

Treatment. — As much as possible, repress all exercise of the 
mind. Do not suffer the child to go to school ; but put it to the 
most active and muscular exercise in the open air. The moment 
there is any heat in the top of the head, apply cold water, ice, or 
cold evaporatlpg lotions. The diet should be verjjr simple, bread 
and milk only, if, as the. child grows up, the signs of disease 
increase. 

Water in the Head. — Another disease of children, and especially 
of scrofulous children. It is inflammatory, and should bo early 
noticed. 

Symptoms. — Capricious appetite, a foul tongue, offensive breath, 
enlarged, and sometimes tender belly, torpid Dowels, stools light- 
colored from having no bile, or dark from vitiated bile, fetid, sour- 
smelling, slimy and lumpy. The cliild grows pale and thin ; and 
is heavy, languid, dejected ; it is fretful, irritable, uneasy, and apt 
to be tottering in its gait. 

The disease may begin, after these symptoms, by pains in the 
head^ becoming more severe and frequent, sharp and shooting, 
causing the child to wakci and shriek out. As the drowsy stp.te 
advances, the shrieking gives place to moaning. There is great 
stiffness in the back of the neck, pain in the limbs, tenderness in 
the scalp, vomiting, sighing, intolerance of light, knitting of the 
brows, and increased disturbance of the stomach and bowels. This 
may last from ten to fourteen days, the patient growing more weak 
and peevish. 

Another form of attack is marked by acute pain in the bead, high 
fever, convulsions, flushed face, brilliant eyes, intolerance of light 
and sound, pain and tenderness in the bellyj stupor, great irritabi- 
lity of stomach, causing retching and vomiting on every attempt 
to sit up. 

The third mode of attack is very insidious — the early symptoms 
being so mild as hardly to be noticed. In this case, the convulsions 
or palsy come suddenly, without notice, bringing swift and unex- 
pected destruction. In tlie first stage of the disease there is in- 
creased sensibility j in the second, decreased sensibility j in the 



druggist's receipts. 



61 



teaspoon- 
the chief 

Jtion, placo 
rater, or a 
iction. In 
let, unless 
patient by 

lldren, and 
3kull may 
fh children 
;ase. The 
intellect, 
inordinate 
I there are 
a peculiar 

se of the 

\ it to the 
} moment 
er, ice, or 
)le, bread 
f disease 

specially 
be early 

B breath, 
3 light- 
id, sour- 
lin ; and 
and apt 

in the 
hooting, 
sy stp.te 
is great 
rness in 
rof the 
This 
:'e weak 

id, high 
5f light 
rritabi- 
ttempt 

iptoma 
ulsions 

unex- 

ia in- 
in the 



third, palsy, convulsions, squinting of the eyes, rolling of the head, 
stupor, and a rapid, thread-like pulse. 

Treatment. — In the first stage, purging is very important, and 
must be continued for thiee or four days. An excellent purgative 
is this : pulverized scammony, six grains ; croton oil, four drops ; 
pulverized loaf sugar, sixteen teaspoonfuls. Rub well togetner 
]". a mortar. Give one teaspoonful every hour or two, till it 
operates. Apply cold water or ice to the head. In the second 
stage put blisters upon the back of the neck, and one on the 
bowelSj if very tender. In the third stage use the warm bath, also 
alteratives and diuretics. For an alterative, use iodide of potas- 
8i»m, one dram ; water, half an ounce ; mix. Thirty drops to a 
child seven years old every hour. For a diuretic, use tincture of 
digitfiTis, one ounce ; syrup of squills, one eunce ; mix. Ten drops 
for a child seven years' old every four hours. The patient should 
be kept in a dark room, away from all noise and excitement, and 
should lie upon a hair mattress, with his bead somewhat elevated. 
The diet in the first stage should be nothing more than gruel ; 
after that, more nourishing, but easy of digestion, such as beef-tea, 
plain chicken-broth, animal-jellies, etc. At the same time the pa- 
tient should be supported by the cautious use of wine- whey, vale- 
rian, or ten drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia every four 
hours. 

Mumps. — This disease, most common among children, begins 
with soreness and stiffness in the side of the neck. Soon a swqI-. 
ling of the paratoid gland takes place, which is painful and con- 
tinues to increase for four or five days, sometimes making it diffi- 
cult to swallow, or open the mouth. The swelling sometimes 
comes on one siae at a time, but commonly upon both. There is 
often heat and sometimes fever, with a dry skin, quick pulse, furred 
tongue, constipated bowels, and scanty and nigh-colored, urine. 
The disease is contagious. 

Treatment. — Kfeep the face and neck warm, and avoid taking 
cold. Drink warm herb-teas, and if the symptoms are severe, 4 to 
6 grs. of Dover's powder ; or if there is costiveness, a slight physic, 
and observe a very simple diet. If the disease is aggravated by 
taking cold, and is very severe, or is translated to other glands, 
physic must be used freely, leeches applied to the swelling, or cool- 
ing lotions and poultices, Sweating must be resorted to in this 
•ttse. 

Scarlet Fever is an acute inflammation of the skin, both exter- 
nal and internal, and connected with an infectious fever.' 

Symptoms. — Tne fever shows itself between two and ten days 
after exposure. On the second day of the fever the eruption comes 
out in minute pimples, which are either clustered together, or spread 
over the surface in a general bright scarlet color. The disease begins 
with langour, pains in the head, back, and limbs, drowsiness, 
nausea and chills, followed by heat and thirst. When the ledness 
appears the pulse is quick, and the patient is restless, anxious and 
often delirious. The eyes are red, the face swollen, and the tongue 
covered in the middle with white mucus, through which are seen 
elevated points of extreme redness. The tonsils are swollen, and 
the throat is red. By the evening of the third or fourth day the 



\\ 



62 



DRUGGISTS RECEIPTS. 



redness has reached its height, and the skin becomes moist, whea 
the scarf-skin begins to come off in scales. 

In this fever the flesh puflFs up so as to distend the fingers, and 
disfigure the face. As it progresses the coating suddenly comes 
oflf the toElgue,, leaving it and the whole mouth raw and tender. 
The throat is very much swollen and inflamed, and ulcers form on 
the tonsils. The eustachian tube which exteads up to the ear, the 
glands under the ear and jaw, sometimes inflame and break ; and 
the abscesses formed in the ear frequently occasion deafness more 
or less difficult to cure. The symptoms of this disease may 
be distinguished from that of measles by the absence of cough ; by 
the finer rash ; by its scarlet color ; bj the rash appearing on the 
second instead of the fourth day ; and by the ulceration of the 
throat. 

Treatment. — ^In ordinary cases the treatment required is very 
simple. The room where the patient lies should be kept cool, and 
the oed-covering light. The whole body should be oponged with 
cool water as often as it becomes hot and dry. and cooling drinks 
should be administered. A few drops of belladonna, night and 
morning, is all that is needed. 

If there is much fever and soreness of throat, give the following 
tincture of hellebore often enough to keep down the pulse : — 
' Tincture of American hellebore, 1 dr. ; tincture of black cohosh, 
2 ot. ; mix. Take one teaspoonful 3 to 6 times a day. 

It would also be useful to commence treatment with an emetic; 
and to soak the feet and hands in hot water containing a little 
mustard or cayenne pepper; continuing this bath 20 minutes, 
twice a day, for 2 or 3 days. The cold stage being passed, and the 
fever having set in, warm water may be used without the musturd 
or pepper. If the head is affected, put drafts upon the feet; and 
if the bowels be costive, give a mild phj^sic. Solid food should not 
be allowed ; but when the fever sets in, cooling drinks, such as 
lemonade, tamarind-water, rice-water, flaxseed tea, then gruel, or 
uold water may be given in reasonable quantities. To stimulate 
the skin, muriatic acid, 45 drops in a tumbler filled with water 
and sweetened, and given in doses of a teaspoonful, is a good 
remedy. 

Where the disease is very violent, and the patient inclines to 
sink immediately ; where typhoid symptoms appear and there is 
great prostration ; the eruption strikes in ; the skin changes to a 
mahogany color ; the tongue is a deep red, or has on it a dark 
brown fur, and the ulctrs in the throat become putrid, the treat- 
ment must be diffferent from the above. In this case it must be 
tonic. Quinia must be given freely ; and wine whey, mixed with 
toast-water, will be useful. Quinia is made as follows : — Sulphate 
of quinine, I scruple ; alcohol, 4 ozs. ; sulphuric acid, 5 drops ; 
Madeira wine^ 1 quart ; mix. Two wine-glassfuls a day, Tinctui3 
of cayenne, m sweetened water, may be given in small doses. 
Gargles are also necessary. A good one is made of pulverized 
cayenne, 1 dram ; salt, one dram ; boiling water, 1 gill. Mix, and 
let them stand 15 minutes. Then add 1 gill vinegar. Let it stand 
an hour and strain. Put a teaspoonful in the cnild's mouth once 
in an hour. A warm bath should be used daily as soon as the 



I 



skin 
bath 
by gi 
a gen 
the cl 
Mb 
nal, 

ness, 



urme. 



moist, whea 

fingers, and 
ienly comes 
and tender. 
3ers form on 
the ear, the 
break ; and 
afness more 
sease may 
f cough ; by 
ring on the 
ition of the 

ed is very 
pt cool, and 
onged with 
(ling drinks 
, night and 

e following 
ilse : — 
ick cohosh, 

an emetic; 

ing a little 

!0 minutes, 

ed, and the 

tie mustard 

feet; and 

should not 

1, such as 

gruel, or 

stimulate 

vith water 

is a good 

inclines to 
id there is 
anges to a 
it a dark 
the treat- 
it must be 
lixed with 
•Sulphate 
5 drops ; 
Tinctui3 
all doses. 
)ulverized 
Mix, and 
st it stand 
outh once 
n as tlie 



cs 



DRUGGIST S RfiG£IPIS. 



63 



skin begins to peel off, to prevent dropsy. If dropsy sets in, the 
bath once in 3 days is sufiBcient, and sweating should be promoted 
by giving the tincture of Virginia snake-root and similar articles ; 
a generous diet should be allowed ai the same time, to bring up 
the child's strength. 

Mbasles ih an acute inflaipm^tion of the skin, iaternal and exter- 
nal, combined with an infectious fever. 

Symptoms. Chills succeeded by great heat, langour, and drowsi- 
ness, pains in the head, back and limbs, quick pulse, soreness of 
throat, thirst, nausea and vomiting, a dry cough, and high colored 
urine. These symptoms increase in violence for four days. The eyes 
are inflamed and weak, and the nose pours fourth a watery secre- 
tion, with frequent sneezing. There is considerable iuflamraation 
in the larynx, wind-pipe and bf-onchial tubes, with soreness of the 
breast and hoarseness. About the fourth day the skin is covered 
with a breaking out which produces heat ana itching, and is red in 
spots, upon the face first, gradually spreading over the wjhole body. 
It goes off in the same way, from the faqe first and then from the 
body, and the hoarseness and other symptoms decline with it ; at 
last the outside skin peels off in scales. 

Treatment. In a mild form, nothing is required but a light diet, 
slightly acid drinks, and flax seed or slippery elm tea. Warm herb 
teas, and frequent sponge baths with tepid water, serve to allar 
the fever ; care should be taken not to let the patient take cold. H 
the fever is very high, and prevents the rash coding out, a slight 
dose of salts, or a nauseating dose of ipecac, lobelia, or hive-syrup 
should be given, and followed by teaspoonful doses of compound 
tincture of Virginia snake-root until the fever is allayed. If the 
patient from any derangement takes on a low typhoid type of fever, 
and the rash does not come out until the seventh day, and is then 
of a dark and livid color, tonics and stimulants must be given, 
jind expectoration promoted by some suitable remedy. There is 
always danger of the lungs being left in an Inflaihed state after 
the measles, unless the greatest care is taken not to suffer the pa- 
tient to take cold. Should there be much soreness or pain, and a 
severe cough, this must be treated as a separate disease, with other 
remedies. 

Symptoms. Typhoid Fevbr is generally preceded by several days 
of languor, low spirits, and indisposition to exertion. There is 
also, usually, some pain in the back and head, loss of appetite, and 
drowsiness, though not, rest. The disease shows itself by a chill. 
During the first week there is increased heat of the surface, fre- 
quent pulse, furred tongue, restlessness, sleeplessness, headache and 
pain in the back ; sometimes diarrhoea and swelling of the belly, 
and sometimes nausea and vomiting. 

The second week is often distinguished by small, rose colored 
spots on the belly, and a crop of littiC watery pimples on the neck 
and chest, having the appearance of minute drops of sweat ; the 
tongue is dry and black, or red and sore ; the teeth are foul ; 
there may be delirium, and dullness of hearing ; and the svmptoms 
every way are more serious than durinq* the first week. Occasion- 
ally, the Dowels are at this period perforated or ate through by 
ulceratioUj and the patient suddenly sinks. If the disease pro^ 



64 



GE(DCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



ceeds unfavorably into the third week, there is low, mutteri.ipf 
delirium; great exhaustion; sliding down of the patient toward 
the foot of the bed ; twitching of the muscles; bleeding from the 
bowels ; and red or purple spots upon the skiv. 

If, on the other hand, the patient improves, the countenance 
brightens up, the pulse moderates, the tongue cleans, and the dis- 
charges look health J. 

Treatment. Give the patient good air, and frequent spongin^s 
with water, cold or tepid, as most agreeable. Keep the bowels in 
order, ari be more afraid of diarrhoea than costiveness. Diarrhoea 
should be restrained by a little brandy, or by repeated doses of 
Dover's powder. For costiveness, give mild injections, made 
slightly loosening by castor oil, or common molatiseii. To keep 
down the fever, and produce perspiration, give tincture of vera- 
trum viride, 10 drops eyery hour. If the bowels ure swelled, re- 
lieve them h^' hot fomentations of hops and vinegar. If the pain 
in the head is very severe and constant, let the hair be cut short, 
and the head bathed frequently with cold water. Give light 
nourishment, and if the debility is great, broth and wine will be 
needed. Cleanse the mouth with very weak tea — old hvson. If 
the fever runs a low course, and the patient is very weak, quinine 
may be given from the beginning. Constant care and good nurs- 
ing are very important. 

Typhus fevQr is distinguished from typhoid by there being no 
marked disease of the bowels in typhus. 






GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 

Chbap Vinbgar. — Mix 25 gals, of warm rain water with 7 gals, 
molasses and 5 gals, yeast, and let it ferment, you will soon have 
the best of vinegar, keep adding these articles in these proportions 
as the stock is sold. 

For Grookrs' Sales —Take three barrels ; let one of them be 
your vinegar barrel ; fill this last up before it is quite empty, with 
molasses, 2 gals, j soft water, 11 gals. ; yeast, 1 qt. ; keeping these 
proportions in fiUmg up the whole three barrels ; sell the vinegar 
out of your old vinegar barrel as soon as it is ready, wiiich will 
be, in a short time ; when nearly empty, fill it up witn the fluid as 
before, and pass on to sell out of the next barrel ; by the time 
it is disposed of go on to the last ; then go back to the first, filling 
up your barrels m every case when nearly empty, and you will 
always keep a stock of gcod vinegar on Jiand unless your sales are 
very large ; in which case, follow the next process. Have the 
bung-holes open in the barrels to admit air. 

Vinegar in Three Days. — Get a quantity of maple, beech, or 
basswood chips or shavings, and soak these in good vinep^ar for 
two or three days. With these chips you will fill a barrel, which 
has beeh pierced with a large number af inch holes all around the 
sides for tne free admission of air amonf; the chips (the more holes 
in the barrel the better, for the "tore r.iv the sooner the viuegm: 



'S. 

mutteri^ipf 
nt toward 
g from the 

luntenance 
(id the dia- 

spongings 
I bowels m 

Diarrhoea 
d doses of 
Dns, made 
To keep 
e of vera- 
(velled, re- 
f the pain 

cut short. 
Jive light 
ne will be 
lyson. If 



GROCERS ANl) confectioners' RECEIPT^ 



65 



i 'n 



k 



qumine 



ood nurs 
being no 



EIPT8. 

th 7 gals, 
oon nave 
oportions 

them be 
pty, with 
>ing these 

vinegar 
uich will 
e fluid as 
the time 
St, filling 
you will 
sales are 
lave the 

)eech, or 
lewar for 
;1, which 
jund the 
Dre holes 
vinegiic 



Will be made) ; cut another barrel in two halves, place one half 
below xhe barrel with the chips and the other half above it. The 
top tub must have its bottom pierced with a number of gimlet 
holes, in which are placed several threads of twine, to conduct the 
vinegar evenlv over the chips. The liquid drains down slowly 
through the chips and out of a faucet near the bottom of the bar- 
rel into the lower tub. It should run through every four hours, 
and then be baled or pumped back. Directions to make vinegar 
from sugar : Use Ij lb. to each gal. of water ; of the dregs of 
molasses barrels, use 2 lbs. to each gal. water ; small beer, lager 
beer, ale, &c., which have become sour, make good vinegar by 
being reduced with water ; small beer needs but little water, lager 
Deer as much water as beer ; to 2 gals, cider add ^ gal. of water ; 
you can also make excellent vinegar out of the artificial cider men- 
tioned below. Use, in every case, soft water to make vinegar, and 
use 2 qts. yeast to every barrel. It makes much quicker if the fluid 
is slightly lukewarm. Leach either of these preparations through 
the shavings. 

This process should be attended to during warm weather, or in 
a room where a pretty high temperature is kept up, as it will not 
work otherwise. 

Excellent Vinegar, Cheap. — Acetic acid, 5 lbs. ; molasses, 1 
gal. ; yeast, 2 qts. ; put them into a forty-gal. cask, and fill it up with 
rain water ; stir it up, and let it stand one to three weeks, letting 
it have all the air possible, and you will have good vinegar. If 
wanted stronger, a.d more molasses. Should jou at any time 
have weak vinegar on hand, put molasses into it to set it working. 
This will soon correct it. 

White Wine Vinegar. — Mash up 20 lbs. raisins, and add 10 gals, 
water ; let it stand in a warm place for one month, and you will 
have pure white wine vinegar. The raisins may be used a second 
time the sa ne way. 

To Preserve Eggs. — To each patent pailful of water, add 1 pt. 
of fresh slacked lime, and 1 pt. of common salt ; nix well. Fill 
your barrel half full with this fluid, put your eggs down in it any 
time after June, and they will keep two years if desired. 

Liquid Mdcilagb. — Fine clean glue, 1 lb. j gum arabic, 10 oz. ; 
water, I qt. ; melt by heat in a glue kettle or water bath ; when 
entirely melted, add slowly 10 oz. strong nitric acid, set off to 
cool. Then bottle, adding a couple of cloves to each bottle. 

Baking Powders, very healthy. — BaVing soda, 6 lbs. ; cream of 
tartar, 8 lbs, Dry each kind separately and thoroughly then mix 
all together and put up in damp proof packages, glass or tin is best, 
to be used in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful to each qt. of flour, 
mix up with cold water and put in the oven immediately. 

Candied Lemon Peel.— Take lemon peels and boil them in syrup ; 
then take them out, and dry. 

Transparent Soap.— Slice 6 lbs. nice yellow bar-soap into shav- 
ings ; put into a brass, tin or copper keftle, with alcohol, I gal. 
heating gradually over a sI'dw fire, stirring till all is dissolved ; 
then add 1 oz. sassafras essence, and stir until all is mixed ; now 
pour into pans about 1* inches deep, and when cold cut into square 
bars the length or widtn of the pan, as desired. 



t6 



GROCERS Ai(D CONFECTIONERS^ RECEIPTS. 



fiNOLiSH Bar-Soap. — Six gals, soft water ; lbs. ^ood stone lime i 
20,lbs. sal-ooda; 4 oz. borax; 15 lbs. fat (tallow is best) ; 10 lbs. 
p ulverized resin, and 4 oz. bees'-wax : jput the water in a kettle on 
the fire, and when nearly boiling add the lime and soda ^ when 
these are dissolved, add the borax ; boil gently, and stir until all is 
dissolved; then add the fat, resin, and bees- wax ; boil all gently 
until it shows flaky on the stick, tuen pour into moulds. 

Bhst Soft Soap.— Mix 10 lbs. potash in 10 gals, warm soft water 
over night ; in the morning boil it, adding 6 lbs. grease ; then put 
all in a bairel, adding 15 gals, soft water. 

Soap without Lye or Grbase. — In a clean pot put { lb. home- 
made hard or mush soap, and i| lb. sal-soda, ana 5 pts. of soft ^ater. 
Boil the mixture 15 minutes, and you will have 6 lbs. good 3oap 
for 7i ce ts. 

Hard Soap. — Take 5 lbs. hard soap, or 7 Iba. soft soap, and 4 lbs. 
sal-soda, and 2 oz. borax, and 1 oz. hartshorn ; boil one quarter 
hour with 22 qts. water ; add, to harden, J lb, resin. 

Gbrman Yellow Soap.— Tallow and sal-soda, of each 112 Ibs.i 
resin, 56 lbs. ; stone lime, 28 lbs. } palm oil, 8 oz.; :oft water, 28 
gals. Put soda, lime, and water into a kettle and boil, stirring 
well ; then let it settle, and pour off the lye. In another kettle, 
melt the tallow, resin^ and palm oil ; having it hot, the lye being 
also boiling hot, mix all together, stirring '' and the work 
is done. 

For small Quantities.— Tallow and sal-soda, each, I ib. ; resin, 
7 oz. ; stone lime, 4 oz. ; palm oil, 1 oz. ; soft water, 1 qt. 

Hard Soap with Lard. — Sal-soda and lard, each 6 lbs. ; stoncj 
lime, 3 lbs. ; soft water, 4 gals, j dissolve thej lime and soda in the 
water by boiling, stirring, settling, and pouring off; then return to 
the kettle (brass or copper), and add the lard, and boil it till it 
becomes soap ; then pour into a dish or moulds ; and, when cold, 
cut into bars, and dry it. 

White Hard Soap with Tallow. — Fresh slacked lime,-8al-soda, 
and tallow, of each, 2 lbs. ; dissolve the soda in 1 gal. boiling soft 
water ; now mix in the lime, stirring occasionally for a few hours ; 
after which, let it settle, pouring off the clear liquor, and boiling 
the tallow therein until it is all dissolved; cool it in a flat box or 
pan, cut into bars or cakes as desired. It may be perfumed 
with sassafras oil or any other perfume desired, stirring it in when 
cool. 

One Hundred Pounds Soap, very cheap.— Potash, 6 lbs. ; lard, 4 
lbs. ; resin, \ lb. Beat up the resin, mix all together, and set aside 
for nve days ; then put the whole into a 10-gal. cask of water, and 
stir twice a day for ten dayb, when it is ready for use. 

Solid Candles prom Lard. — Dissolve i lb. alum and I lb. salt- 
petre in i pt. water on a slow fire ; then take 3 lbs. of lard cut into 
small pieces, and put into the pot with this solution, stirring it con- 
stantly over a very moderate fire until the lard is all dissolved ; 
then let it simmer until all steam ceases to rise and remove it at 
once from the fire. If you leave it too long it will get discolored. 
These candles are harder and better than tallow. 

Tallow — To Cleanse and Bleach. — Dissolve alum, 5 lbs. in 
water, 10 gals., by boiling ; and when it is all dissoUed, add tallow, 



20 IbsJ 
sklmi 
muslii 
it by fd 

Imit] 
powdej 
a mosi 
result. 
a gall( 
the lig] 

Aw 
ton tall 
and dul 

TeasI 
of theii 
It is a 



3. 

bone lime ( 
;) ; 10 lbs. 
. kettle on 
daj when 
intil all is 
ill gently 

3oft water 
; then put 

lb. home- 
oft water, 
[ood 3oap 

ind 4 lbs. 
e quarter 

1 112 lbs., 
water, 28 
I, stirring 
er kettle, 
lye being 
the work 

[b. ; resin, 

; stone 

ia in the 

return to 

it till it 

en cold, 

sal-soda, 
ling soft 
hours ; 
boiling 
t box or 
erfumed 
in when 

lard, 4 
et aside 
ter, and 

lb. salt>- 
3ut into 
it con- 
solved ; 
ve it at 
jolored. 



GEOCEttS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



el 



20 lbs. J continue the boiling for an hour, constantly stirring and 
skimming ; when suflBciently cool to allow it, strain through thick 
muslin ; then set aside to harden ; when taken from the water, lay 
it by for a short time to drip. 

Imitation Wax Oakdlkb.— Purify melted tallow by throwing in 
powdered quick lime, then add two parts wax to one of tallow, and 
a most beautiful article of candle, resembling wax, will be the 
result. Dip the wicks in lime water and saltpetre on making. To 
a gallon of water add 2 oz. saltpetre and ^ lb. of lime ; it improves 
the light, and prevents the tallow from running. 

Adamantine Candles fHom Tallow. — ^Melt together 10 oz. mut- 
ton tallow , camphor, i oz. ; bees-wax, 4 oz. : alum, 2 oz. Very hard 
and durable, burning with a clear, steady liffht. 

Teas. — The names of the different kinds of tea relate to the time 
of their being gathered, or to some peculiarity in their manufacture. 
It is a general rule, that all tea is fine in proportion to the tender- 
ness and immaturity of the leaves. The quality and value of 
the different kinds diminish ag they are gathered later in the 
season. 

Black Teas. — As soon as the leaf-bud begins to expand, it is 
gathered to make Pekoe. A few days' later growth produces black 
leaved Pekoe. The next picking is called Souchong ; as the leaves 
grow larger and more mature, they form Cougou; and the last pick- 
ing is Bohea. 

Bohea is called by the Chinese, Ta-cha (large tea), on account 
of the maturity and size of the leaves ; it contains a larger propor- 
tion of woody fibre than other teas, and its infusion is of a darker 
color and coarser flavor. 

Congou, the next higher kind, is named from a corruption of the 
Chinese Koong-foa (great care, or assiduity). This forms the bulk 
of the black tea imported, and is mostly valued for its strength. 

Souchong — Seaoa-choong (small scarce sort), is the finest of the 
strongest black tea, with a leaf that is generally entire and curly. 
It is much esteemed for its fragrance and fine flavor. 

Fekoe is a corruption of the Canton name, Pak-ho (white ddwn), 
being the first sprouts of the leaf-buds ; they are covered with a 
white silky down. It is a delicate tea, rather deficient in strength, 
and is principally used for flavoring other teas. 

Green Teas. — The following are the principal kinds Twankay^ 
Hyson-Skin, Hyson, Gunpowder, and Young Jayson. 

Young Hyson is a delicate young leaf, called in the original lan- 
guage, Furtsien (before the rains), because gathered in the early 
spring. 

Hyson, from the Chinese word He-tchune, which npieans, flourish- 
ing spring. This fine tea is gathered early in the season, and pre- 
pared with great care and labor. Each leaf is picked separately, 
and nipped off above the footstalks ; and evenr separate leaf is 
rolled m the hand. It is much esteemed for its flavor. 

Gunpowder Tea is only Hyson rolled and rounded to give it the 
granular appearance whence it derives its name. The Chinese call 
it Choo'Cha (pearl tea). 

Hyson-Skin is so named from the Chinese term, in which con- 
nection «%m means the refuse, or inferior portion. In preparing 



1 



ll 






6S 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



Hyson, all leaves that are of a coarse yellow, or imperfectly twistfed 
appearance, are separated, and sold as skm-tea, at an inferior price. 

Twankay is the last picking of green tea. and the leaf is not rolled 
or twisted as much as the dearer descriptions. There is altogether 
less trouble bestowed^on the preparation. 

Coffees. — Java Coffee.— Use of the imported article, 20 lbs. : 
dried dandelion root, 7 lbs. ; chiccory, 13 lbs. Roast and grind 
well together. 

For West India, use rye roasted with a little butter, and ground 
rerv fine. 

For Turkey Coffee, use rice or wheat roasted with a little 
butter, 7 lbs. ; chiccory, 3 ibs. ; grind. 

Essence of Coffee is made by boiling uo.vn molasses till 
hard ; grind to a powder ; add i lb. of f i )ava coflfee to every 4 
lbs. of the mixture*. Put up for sale in M v ^ans or air-tight 

paper packages. 

Coffee for Pound Packages. — Best Ja\ - coflfe. lb. ; rye, 3 
lbs. ; carefully clean the rye from all bad grains, wuth to remove 
dust, drain off the water, and put the grain into your roaster, 
carefully stirring to brown it evenlj. Brown the rye and coffee 
separately, grind, and put up in tight packages to preserve the 
aroma. 

Manufacturing and Flavoring Tobacco.— After the tobacco is 
)roperly cured and sweated, you will, preparatory to pressing, 
)roceea. to flavor it as follows : Take 1 oz. tonqua beans ; 6 oz. 
: i(luorice, 1 lb. sugar ; pulverize each completely ; add the ingre- 
dients to 1 gallon water. Macerate and rummage up for a tew 
days till the aromatic flavor is properly imparted to the liquid. 
Then spread out some tobacco leaves, and slightly sprinkle them 
with the above fluid till enough is absorbed to render them pliable. 
Then roll them up in round packages of such a size tnat ten 
will make 1 lb. ; then reduce them into flat plugs in a powerful 
press. A large number of such plugs are subsequent! y,,pressed 
into blocks^ when they are" ready for the market at once. The 
strength of the above liquid may be increased or diluftfl a& desired 
by the manufacturer, and extract of vanilla may be stIbslMiweil for 
the tonqua bean. 

Flavor for Cigar Makers.— Take 2 ozs. tonqua beans and 1 
oz. cinnamon ; bruise and pulverize them to a powder, and put 
them into 1 pint of Santa Cruz rum ; let it stand for a few days to 
macerate ; stir all together, anfl with this liquid sprinkle yout 
common or inferior tobacco. f)ry out of tbe sun, and the flavor 
will be unequalled. 

To Cure Butter.— Take 2 parts of fine salt; 1 part loaf sugar; 
1 part saltpetre ; mix completely. Use 1 oz. of this mixture to 
each pound of butter ; work well. Bury your butter firkins in the 
earth in your cellar bottom, tops nearly level with the ground, or 
store away in a very cool place, covering the butter with a clean 
cloth and a strong brine on the top, and it will keep two years 
if desired 

Unerring Tests for Good Flour. — Good flour is white^witha 
yellowish or straw-coiored tint. Squeeze some of the flour in 
your hand I if good, it will retain the shape given by pressure. 



flour. 



pans, 



h^ 



TS. 

tly twisted 

Ferior price. 

E not rolled 

altogether 

le, 20 lbs.: 
and grind 

and ground 

th a little 

lolasses till 
J to every 4 
or air-tight 

lb. ; rye, 3 
1 to remove 
>ur roaster, 
and coffee 
(reserve the 

J tobacco is 

to pressing, 

eans ; 6 oz. 

I the ingre- 

b for a tew 

r the liquid. 

rinkle them 

lem pliable. 

ize tnat ten 

a powerful 

itly,,pressed 

otvce. The 

as desired 

stHweei for 



Ub;O0ER8 AND CONFEOTIOi.UHs' BEOEiPTft.. 



60 



sr, 



ans and I 
and put 
ew days to 
rinkle yout 
the flavor 

iloaf sugar; 
mixture to 
kins in the 
ground, or 
ith a clean 
two years 

litej. with a 
le flour in 
y pressure. 



Knead a little between your fingers ; If it works soft and sticky, it 
is Door. Throw a little against a dry perpendicular surface ; if it 
fall like powder, it is bad. 

To CoRRRCT Musty Flour.*— Carbonate of magnesia, 3 lbs. ; 
flour, 765 lbs. ; mix. This improves bad flour, causing it to be- 
come more wholesome, producmg lighter and better bread than 
when alum is used, and aborbs and dissipates the musty smell. 

i^RATBD Bread. — 1 lb. flour, 100 grs. carb. of soda ; 60 grs. com- 
mon salt ; 1 teaspoon powdered sugar ; 120 grs. muriatic acid, more 
or less according to its strength ; 1 wine pt. of water, inferior flotir 
will require less. Well mix the flour, soda, salt, and sugar in an 
earthen vessel, then add the acid mixed with the water, stir with a 
wooden spoon. Bake in one loaf about 1 hour. Bake in tin or iron 
pans, but avoid the use of metallic vessels or spoons while mixing. 

Patent Self Raising Flour.— Kiln-dried flour, 1 cwt. ; tartaric 
acid, lOj oz. ; mix thoroughly. After 2 or 3 days, add, of bicarb, 
soda, 12 oz. ; lump sugar, ^ lb.; common salt, 1^ lb. Mix, and 
p^ss through the ''dressing-machine." Have all the articles per- 
f^ctlv dry, and separately reduce to fine powder before adding to 
the flour. Mix with cold water, and bake at once. It produces 
light and porous bread. 

Tomato Catsup. — Boil 1 bushel of tomatoes till they are soft ; 
squeeze then through a fini^ wire sieve ; add IJ^ pts. salt, 2 oz. 
cayenne pepper, and 5 heads of onions, skinned and separated ; 
mix togetner, and boil till reduced one half; then bottle. 

The Northbrn-Lioht Bubning Fluid. — Get good deodorized ben- 
zine, 60 to 65 gravity, and to each brl. of 42 gals, add 2 lbs. pul- 
verized alum, 3^ oz. gum camphor, and 3i oz. oil of sassafras, or 
2 ot. oil bergamot ; stir up and mix thoroughly- together, and it will 
soon be ready for use. N.B. — As this fluid creates a much larger 
volume of light and flame than carbon oil, it is necessarv to use 
either a high burner, such as the sun burner, to elevate the flame 
away from the lamp, in order to keep it cool, or instead thereof, to 
use a burner provided with a tube for the escape of the gas gener- 
ated from the fluid, such, for instance, as the meridan burner. 

Test FOR Burning Oil.— Heat water in a pot on the fire to 120° 
Fahr. Take a tin and put in it a tablespoonful of the oil you wish 
to test, place the tin containing the oil in the hot water, let it cool 
down to 1129 Fahr. ; when at this point, approach a light very cau- 
tiously towards the oil, and if it takes fire before the light touches 
it you will be safe in rejecting it. 

Tabao Pbrfumee aux Flbubs is made by putting orange flowers, 
jasmines, tube roses, musi' roses, or common roses, to snufi^ in a 
close chest or jar, sifting them out after 24 hours, p "* "epeating if 
necessary. 

Maooaboy Snufp is imitated by moistening th. tobacco with a 
mixture of treacle and water, and allowing it to ferment. 

Spanish Snuff is made from unsifted Havana snuff) reduced by 
adding ground Spanish 7m<s/i«^^sprinklingthe mixture with treacle 
water, and allowing it to sweat for some days before packing. 

Yellow Snuff is prepared from ordinary pale snuff, moistened 
with a mixture of yellow ochre diffused in water^ to which a few 
spoonfuls of thin mucilage has been added. 



-rr 



70 



QROOERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



PfRrnMBS FOR Skcff .— Tonqua beans, essence of ditto, ambergris, 
inusk civet, leaves of orchis t usca and essence of orris root, essence 
or oils of bergamot, cedra, cloves, lavender, petit grain, neroli and 
roses, as well as several others, either alone or compounded. 

Pbbsbrvbd or SoLiDiFiKD MiLK.— 1. Presh-skimmed milk, 1 gal.; 
sesquicarbonate of soda (in powder), 11 dr. Mix ; evaporate 1,0 i part 
bj heat of a steam or water-bath, with constant agitatioc. ; then 
add of powdered sugar 6^ lbs. and complete the evaporation at a 
reduced temperature. Reduce the dry mass to powder, add the 
cream well drained, which was taken from the milk. After 
thorough admixture, put the whole into well>stopped bottl<)8 or 
tins, and hermetically seal. £. Carbonate of soda, * dr. ; water. 1 
fluid oz.; dissolve ; add of fresh milk, 1 qt. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; reduce by 
beat to the consistence of a syrup, and finish the evaporation on 
plates by exposure, in an oven. Observe — About 1 oz. or the powder 
agitated with 1 pt. of water forms an agreeable substitute for 
milk. 

Sbalino-wax, Red. — Shellac (very pale), 4 oz. : cautiously melt 
in a bright copper pan over a clear charcoal nre; when fused, 
add Venice turpentine, 1| oz. Mix, and further add vermilion, 
3 oz. ; remove the pan from the fire, and pour into mould. For 
a black color, use ivory black, or lampblack, instead of the 
vermilion ; for a blue color, use Prussian blue instead of the 
vermilion, same quantity Each color must be well mixed with 
the composition ; of the lampblack, use only sufficient to color. 

Horticultural Ink. — Copper, 1 part ; dissolve in nitric acid, 
10 parts, and add water, 10 parts ; used to write on zinc or tin 
labels. 

BoTTLB Wax — Black. — Black resin, 6i lbs. ; beeswax, J lb. ; 
finely powdered ivory black, li^ lbs. Melt together. Rbd, as the 
last, but substitute Venetian red, or red lead, for the ivory 
black. 

Gold-colored Sealing-wax. — Bleached shellac, 3 lbs.; Venice 
turpentine, 1 lb.; Dutch leaf ground fine, 1 lb., or less. The 
leaf should be ground or powdered sufficiently fine, without 
being reduced to dust. Mix with a gentle hea^ and pour into 
moulds.. 

Lithographic Ink. — Venice turpentine 1 part, lampblack 2 parts, 
hard tallow soap 6 parts, mastic in tears, 8 parts, shellae 12 
parts, wax 16 parts ; melt, stir, and pour it out on a slab. 

Fine Black writing Ink.— To 2 gals, of a strong decoction of 
logwood, well strained, add 1^ lbs. blue galls in coarse powder 
6 oz8. sulphate of iron, 1 oz. acetate of copper, 6 ozs. of well ground 
sugar, and 8 oz. gum arabic. Set the above on the fire until it 
begins to boil ; strain, and then set it away until it has acquired the 
desired black. 

Green Ink.— Cream of tartar 1 part, verdigris 2 parts, water 
8 parts. Boil till reduced to the proper color. 

Blue Ink. — Take sulphate of indigo, dilute it with water till 
it produces the required color. 

Violet Ink is made by dissolving some violet aniline ia 
water to which some alcohol has been added ; it takes very little 
uniline to make a large quantity of the ink. 



m 



). 



GROCERS AND OONFEOTIONERS' R£0£lt>TS. 



71 



imbergris, 
>t, eaaence 
leroli and 
ied. 

Ik, 1 gal.; 
Le 1,0 J part 
ioi. ; then 
ation at a 
sr, add the 
k. After 
bottlaa or 
; water. 1 
reduce by 
oration on 
the powder 
stitute for 

ously melt 
heu fused, 
vermilion, 
lould. For 
sad of the 
sad of the 
nixed with 
,o color. ^ 
litric acid, 
zinc or tin 

rax, i lb.; 
,BD, as the 
the ivory 

)3.; Venice 

less. The 

, without 

pour into 

Ick 2 parts, 
ihellae 12 

Loction of 
le powder 
tell ground 
ire until it 
cquired the 

Lrts, water 

I water till 

laniline ia 
lyery little 



Gold Ink. — Uosaic gold, two parts, gum arabic, one part, 
rubbed up to a proper condition. 

SiLVBB Ink. — Tritumic th a mortar equal parts of silver foil and 
sulphate of potassa, until reduced to a fine powder, then wash 
the s«lt out, and mix the residue with a mucilage of equal parts of 
gum arabic water. 

Fcllam's Recipe fob Indeliblb Stbncil-platk Ink. — 1 lb. pre- 
cipitate carbonate of iron ; 1 lb. sulphate of iron ; li lbs. acetic 
acid, btir over a fire until they combine ; then add 3 lbs. printer's 
varnish and 2 lbs. fine book ink, and stir until well mixed. Add 
1 lb. of Ethiop'rf mineral. 

Exchequer Ink. — Bruised galls, 40 lb. ; gum, 10 lb. ; green . 
sulphate of iron, 9 lb. ; soft water, 45 gal. Macerate for 3 weeks 
with frequent agitation and strain. This ink will endure for ages. 
Asiatic Ink. — Bruised galls, 14 lb. ; gum, 5 lb. Put them in a 
small cask, and add of boiling soft water, 15 gal.*' Allow the 
whole to macerate, with frequent agitation, for two weeks, then 
further add green copperas, 5 lb., dissolved in 7 pt. water. Again 
mix well, and agitate the whole daily for two or three weeks. 

ExTHA GOOD Black Ink. — Bruised' galls, 2 lb., logwood chips, 
green copperas and gum, of each, 1 lb. ; water, 7 gal. Boil 2 hours 
and strain. Product, 5 gal. 

Brown Ink. — A strong decoction of catechu. The shade may be 
varied by the cautious addition of a little wea ksolution of bichro- 
mate of potash. 

Indelible Ink. — Nitrate of silver, i oz. ; water, 3 oz. Dissolve, 
add as much of the strongest liquor of ammonia as will dissolve 
the precipitate formed on its first addition ; then add of mucilage 
li dr., and a little sap green, syrup of buckthorn, or finely pow- 
dered indigo, to color. Turns black on being held near the fire, or 
touched with a hot iron. 

Indelible Ink fob Glass or Metal. — Borax, 1 oz ; shellac, 2 oz. ; 
water, 18 fluid oz. ; boil in a covered vessel, add of thick mucilage, 
1 oz. ; triturate it with levigated indigo and lampblack q. s., to 
give it a good color. After 2 hours' repose, decant from the dregs 
and bottle for use. It may be bronzed after being applied. 
Twesista moisture, chlorine, and acids. 

Common Ink — To 1 gal. boiling soft water, add ^ oz. extract log- 
wood ; boil two minutes ; remove from the fire, and stir in 48 
grains bichromate of potash, and 8 grains prussiate of potash; for 
10 gal. use 6i oz. logwoode xtract; 1 oz. bichromate of potash, and 
80 grains prussiate of potash ; strain. 

Black Copying Ink, or Writing fluid. — Take 2 gal. rain water 
and put into it gum arabic, i lb. ; brown sugar, i lb.; clean cop- 
peras, J lb. ; powdered nutgalls, I lb. ; mix, and snake occasionally) 
fur ten days and strain ; if naeded sooner, let it stand in an iron 
kettle until the strength is obtained. This ink will stand the 
action of the atmosphere for centuries, if required. 

Red Ink. — In an ounce phial put 1 teaspoonful of aqua* ammo- 
nia ; gum arabic, size of two or three peas ; and 6 grains of No. 
40 carmine ; fill up with soft water, and it is soon ready for use. 

Liquid Blacking.— Ivory black, 2 lbs. ; molasses. 2 lbs. ; sweet 
oil, 1 lb. I rub together till well mixed ; then add oil vitrwl^ | lb. j 



72 



GtlOOEttS ANt) CONf EOTIONERS' RECEIPT^. 



i 



add coarge sugar, | lb. ; and dilute vritlibeer bottoms ; this can'^'^t 
bo excelled. 

TicKKTiNQ Ikk for GrookrBj &o.— Dlssolve 1 oz. of gum arabic 
in 6 oz. water, and strain ; this is the mucilage ; for black color, 
use drop-black, powdered, and ground with the muc'lage to ex- 
treme fineness ; ror fdue, ultra-marine is used in the same manner ; 
for greerif emerald green ; for white, flake white ; for red, vermil- 
ion, lake, or carmine ; for yellow, chrome yellow. When ground 
too thick, they are thinned with a little water. Apply to the cards 
with a small brush. The cords may be sized with a thin glue, and 
afterwards varnished, if it is desired to preserve them. 

Bluino for Clothbs. — Take 1 oz. of soft Prussian blue, powder 
if, and put in a bottle with 1 quart of clear rain water, and add i 
oz. of pulverized oxalic acid. A tablespoonful is sufficient for a 
large washing. 

Premium* Method of kekpino Hams, &c. — To 4 gal. water, add 8 
lbs. coarse salt : \ oz. potash : 2 oz. saltpetre ; 2 lbs. brown sugar. 
Boil together, skim when cola, put on the above quantity to 100 
lbs. meat ; hams to remain in eight weeks^ beef, three wecKS. Let 
the hams dry several days before smokmg. Meat of all kinds, 
salmon and other fish, lobsters, Ac, may be preserved for years by 
a light application of pyroligneous acid applied with a brush, seal- 
ing up in cans as usual. It imparts a splendid flavor to the meat, 
is very cheap, and an effectual preservative against loss. 

To PBi!;sER\TB Meats, Salmon, Lobsters, &c., hbrmbticallt 
SEALED.— The meat to be preserved is first parboiled or somewhat 
more, and freed from bones. It is then put into tin cases or 



■•) 



canisters, which are quite filled up with a rich gravv. A tin cover, 
with a small aperture, is then carefully fixed on by solder; and, 
while the vessel is perfectly full, it is placed in boiling water, and 
undergoes the remainder of the cooking. The small hole in the cover 
is completely closed up by soldeiing while the whole is yet hot. 
The canister, with its ingredients, is now allowed to cool, in conse- 
quence of wnich these contract, and the sides of the vessel are 
slightly forced inward by atmospheric pressure, and become a 
little concave. The vessel being thus hermetically sealed, and all 
access of air prevented, it may be sent into any climate without 
fear of putrefaction ; and the most delicate food of one country 
may be used in another in all its original perfection months and 
years after its preparation. Lobsters should be boiled longer than 
meats, and the scales removed previous to putting into the canis- 
ters. Salmon put up by this process is most delicious. By the 
French process, the meat is boiled till it is three-quarters done, 
w en two-thirds of it are taken out, the remaining one- third is 
boiled into a concentrated soup, and the meat previously taken out 
is put into the canisters, which are then filled up with the soup ; 
the tin cover with aperture is soldered on, and the canister with 
its contents submitted to a further boiling in hot water, when the 
aperture is closed, as above stated, and the canisters laid away in 
store. 

To PRESERVE Fruits without Sugar.— Fill some stone wide- 
mouthed bottles with the fruit carefully picked, and set them in a 
copper or large kettle ; then fill the kettle with cold water nwtrly 



; this can^rt 

ffiim arabic 
' black color, 
?'lage to ex- 
itne manner ; 

red, vermil- 
Vhen ground 
r to the cardfi 
bin glue, and 

blue, powder 
r, and add \ 
ifficieut for a 

water, adds 
brown sugar, 
untity to 100 
» wecKS. Let 
of all kinds, 
i for years by 
a brush, seal- 
: to the meat, 

>S8. 
SfiRMETICALLT 

or somewhat 

tin cases or 

A tin cover, 

solder; and, 

ig water, and 

e in the cover 

le is yet hot. 

ool, in conse- 

he vessel are 

id become a 

ealed, and all 

oaate without 

one country 

months and 

longer than 

to the canis- 

0U8. By the 

larters done, 

one-third is 

sly taken out 

th the soup ; 

;anister with 

ter, when the 

laid away in 

stone wide- 
let them in a 
water noarly 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



73 



up to the mouths of thu bottles. Corks should be prepared to fit 
the bottles, and a cloth should be put under the bottoms of the 
bottloa to prevent tluir cracking with th« heat. Light the fire un- 
der the kettle, and heat the water to 160*' or iTO*". This heat should 
be continued for half an hour, when the fruit viU 'f; autliciently 
scalded ; after that, fill up the bottles with boiling water to within 
an inch of the cork, and cork them tightly. Lay the bottles on 
their sides ; chaugo the position of the bottles once or twi«e a 
week during the first two months, turning them round to prevent 
any fermentation that might take place. Fruits eould also be 
kept by the process mentioned above for meats, remembering that 
thev are to be scalded only, not boiled, as is the case with meats. 

Anothku Method. — After paring and coring, put amongst them 
sutficiont sugar to make thom palatable for present eating, about 
3 or 4 lbs. only to each bushel ; let them stand awhile to dfissolve 
the sugar, not using any water : then heat to a boil, and continue 
the boiling with care for 20 to 30 minutes, or sufficiently long to 
heat them through, which expels the air. Have ready a kettle of 
hot water, into which dip the can or bottle long enough to heat it ; 
then fill in the fruit while hot, corking it immediately, dipping the 
end of the cork into the bottle-wax preparation described else- 
where. 

WoRCESTBRSHiRB Saucb. — Port wine and mushroom ketchup, of 
each 1 qt. ; old ale and strong vinegar, of each, \ pt. ; walnut 
pickle, 1 pt. ; soy, J pt. ; pounded anchovies, h lb. ; fresh lemon 
peel, minced shallots, and scraped horse-radish, of each, 2 oz. ; 
allspice and black pepper (bruised), of each, 1 oz. ; curry powder, 
f oz. Digest 14 days ; strain and bottle. 

Ghbbkins.— Take small cucumbers (not young), steep for a week 
in very strong brine ; it is then poured off, heated to the boiling 
point, and again poured on the fruit. The next day, the gherkins 
are drained on a sie^e, wiped dry, put into bottles or jars, with 
gome spice, ginger, pepper, or cayenne, and at once covered with 
strong pi«khng vinegar. 

Mixed Pickles from cauliflowers, white cabbagCj French beans, 
onions, cucumbers, Ac, are treated as gherkins, with raw ginger, 
capsicum, mustard-seed, and long pepper, added to each Dottle. 
A little coarsely-bruised turmeric improves both the color and 
flavor. 

Indian Pickle. — Piccalilli. — Take one hard white cabbage 
(sliced), 2 cauliflowers, pulled to pieces, 20 French beans, 1 stick 
of horse-radish, sliced fino, 2 doz. small white onions, and 1 doz. 
gherkins. Cover these with boiling brine ; next day, drain the 
whole on a sieve, put it into ajar, add of curry powder, or tur- 
meric, 2 oz. ; garlic, ginger, and mustard-see . of each 1 oz. ; cap- 
sicum, J oz. Fill up the vessel with hot pick ing vinegar ; bung 
it up close, and let it stand for a month, with occasional agitation 
every week. 

To Prbsibve Fruit Jmcs without Heat. — Ingredients : 10 lbs. 
of fresh-gathered, picked, ripe red currants, or other fruit, 2 qts. 
cold wat€r, 5 oz. tartaric acid, 6 lbs. of coarse-sifted sugar. Put 
the fruit into a large earthen pan, pour the water with the tartaric 
acid dissolved jn it over the fruit, cover the pan with some kind of 



74 



QROCER» AND CONFECTIONERS RECEIPTS. 



li 



lid, and allow the whole to steep for 24 hours in a :old place, and 
it would be all the better if the pan containing the fruit could be 
immersed in rough ice. Next, pour the steeped fruit into a sus- 
pended stout flannel bag, and when all the juice has run through, 
tie up the open end of the bag, and place it on e^ large earthen 
dish, with another dish upon it j place a half-hundrqd weight upon 
this, to press out all the remaining juice, and then mix it with the 
other juice. You now put the sifted sugar into the juice, and stir 
both together occasionally, until the sugar is dissolved, and then 
bottle up the syrup, cork, and tie down the bottles with wire, and 
keep them in the ice well or in a cold cellar, in a reclining positioa. 

To RESTORE Injured Meat. — When the brine sours and taints 
the meat, pour it off ; boil it. skim it well, then pour it back again 
on the meat boiling hot ; this will restore it, even when much 
injured. If tainted meat is injured, dip it in the solution of chlo- 
ride of lime prescribed for rancid butter ; it will restore it. Fly- 
blown meat can be completely restored by immersing it for a few 
hours in a vessel containing a small quantity of beer; but it will 
taint and impart a putrid smell to the liquor. Fresh meat, hams, 
fi'sh, &c., can be preserved for an indefinite length of time without 
salt, by a light application of pyroligneous acid applied with a 
brush ; it imparts a fine smoky flavor to the meat, and is an effect- 
ual preservative. But pure acetic acid may be used instead. 

MfirHOD OP CORING BAD TuB BoTTBR. — A quantity of tub-butter 
was brought to market in the West Indies, which, on opening, was 
found to be very bad, and almost stinking. A native of Pennsyl- 
vania undertook to cure it, which he did in the following man- 
ner : — 

He started the tubs of butter in a large quantity of hot water, 
which soon melted the butter ; he then skimmed it off as clean as 
possible, and worked it over again in a churn, and, with the addi- 
tion of salt and fine sugar, the butter was sweet. 

To RESTORE Rancid Butter. — Use 1 pt. water to each lb. of but- 
ter, previously adding 20 grs. chloride of lime to each pt. of water: 
wash well the butter in this mixture, afterward re-wash in cold 
water and salt ; or melt the butter in a water bath with animal 
charcoal, coarsely powdered and previously well sifted to free 
it from dust ; skim, remove, and strain through flannel ; then salt. 

Fresh Meat — to keep a Week or Two in Summer. — Farmers 
or others living at a distance from butchers can keep fresh meat 
very nicely for a week or two, by putting it into sour milk, or but- 
ter milk, placing it in a cool cellar. The bone or fat need not be 
removed. Rinse well when used. 

Milkman's Process. — To give a body to diluted milk use the 
following nutritive and healthy compound at the rate of 8 oz. to 
every 5 gals., stirring it up in the milk, till all is dissolved : arrow- 
root* 6 oz. ; magnesia, 6 oz. ; starch, 1 lb. , flour, J lb. ; white sugar 
in powder, 1 lb. ; mix all intimately together, and keep in a dry 
place for use. 

Custard Powders. — Sago meal and flour, 1 lb. each, color with 
turmeric to a cream color. Flavor with essential oil of almonds, 1 
dr. ; ess. of lemon, 2 drs. Use with 3W80toned milk to form ex- 
temporaneous custards. 



qt., 
the 
daysl 
Pil 

steei 
and 
24 h\ 
ther 
diate 



[PTS. 

>ld place, and 
Tuit could be 
t into a sus- 
run through, 
large earthen 
[weight upon 
ix it with the 
uice, and stir 
ed, and then 
ith wire, and 
ling positioa. 
n and taints 
it back again 

when much 
tion of chlo- 
tore it. Ply- 
? it for a few 
r ; but it will 

meat, hams, 
time without 
iplied with a 

is an eflFect- 
ustead. 
>f tub-butter 
opening, was 

of Pennsyl- 
owing man- 

f hot water, 
' as clean as 
ith the addi- 

h lb. of but- 
)t. of water: 
t^ash in cold 
with animal 
fted to free 
then salt. 
I. — Farmers 
fresh meat 
Qilk, or but- 
need not be 

ilk use the 
of 8 oz. to 
ed : arrow- 
vhite sugar 
p in a dry 

color with 
almonds, 1 
to form ex- 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS, 



76 



CtTRBY PowDBB. — Turmcric and coriander seeds, of each, 4 oz. ; 
black pepper, 2^ oz. ; ginger, 14 drs. ; cinnamon, mace, and cloves, 
each, i oz. ; cardamom seeds, 1 oz. ; cummin seeds, 2 drs. ; cayenne 
pepper, 1 oz. ; powder and mix. 

Napoleon's Camp Sauce. — Old strong beer, 2 qts., white wine, 1 
qt., anchovies 4 ounces : mix ; boil for ten minutes ; remove it from 
tne fire, and add of peeled shallots, 3 ounces j macerate for 14 
days, and bottle. 

Pickled Onions. — Choose small round onions, remove the skins, 
steep them in strong brine for a week in a stone vessel, pour it off, 
and heat till it boils ; then pour on the onions, boiling hot ; after 
24 hours, drain on a sieve, then put them in bottles, fill up over 
them with strong spiced vinegar, boiling hot, cork down imme- 
diately, and wax over the cork. In a similar manner are pickled 
mushrooms, cauliflowers, samphires, peas, beans, green gooseberries, 
walnuts, red cabbages (without salt, with cold vinegar). Observe 
that the soft and more delicate articles do not require so long 
soaking in brine as the harder and coarser kinds, and may be often 
kept by simply pouring very strong pickling vinegar bn tnem with- 
out the application of heat. For peaches^ select ripe but not soft 
ones ; rub with a dry cloth ; put four cloves, free from their heads, 
in each large peach, and two in small ones ; to one gallon vinegar, 
put 6 lb. good brown sugar ; put the peaches in a jar, and put the 
vinegar (diluted with water, if too strong) and sugar in a preserv- 
ing kettle over the fire ; boil and skim it ; pour it Doiling hot over 
the peaches, covering them closely; repeat the operation three 
times ; then seal them tightly in cans or bottles. 

French Patent Mustard.— Flour of mustard, 8 lbs. ; wheaten 
flour, 8 lbs. ; bay salt, 2 lbs. ; cayenne pepper, 4 oz. ; vinegar to 
mix. 

Common Mustard.— Flour of mustard, 28 lbs. ; wheat flour, 28 
lbs. ; cayenne pepper, 12 oz., or as required ; common salt, 10 lbs. ; 
rape oil, 3 lbs. ; turmeric to color ; mix well, and pass through a 
tine sieve. 

Starch Polish. — White wax, 1 oz. ; spermaceti, 2 oz. ; melt them 
together with a gentle heat. When you have prepared a sufficient 
amount of starch, in the usual way, for a dozen pieces, put into it 
a piece of the polish the size of a large pea ; more or less, accord- 
ing to large or small washings. Or thick gum solution (made by 
pouring boiling water upon gum arable), one tablespoon to a pint 
of starch, gives clothes a beautiful gloss. 

Fire Kindlbrs. — To make very nice fire kindlers, take resin, any 
quantity, and melt it, putting in for each pound being used, from 
a to 3 oz. of tallow, and when all is hot, stir in pine sawdust to 
make very thick ; and, while yet hot, spread it out about 1 inch 
thick, upon boards which have fine sawdust sprinkled upon them, 
to prevent it from. sticking. When cold, break up into lumps 
about 1 inch square. But if for sale, take a thin board and press 
upon it, while yet warm, to lay it off into 1 inch squares : this 
makes it break regularly, if you press the crease sufficiently deep, 
greasing the marked board to prevent it from sticking. 

To KEEP Cider sweet, and sweeten Sour Cider. — To keep cider 
perfect, take a keg and bore holes in the bottom of it ; spread a, 



76 OROCERS AND CONFECTIONERb' RECEIPTS. 



piece of woollen cloth at the bottom ; then fill with clean sand 
closely packed ; draw your cider from a barrel just as fast as it will 
run through the sand ; after this, put it in clean barrels which have 
had a piece of cotton or linen cloth 2 by 7 inches dipped in melted 
sulphur and burned inside of them, thereby absorbing the sulphur 
fumes (this process will also sweeten sour cider) ; then keep it in a 
cellar or room where there is no fire, and add i lb. white mustard 
seed to each barrel. If cider is long made, or souring when you get 
it, about 1 qt. of hickory ashes (or a little more of otner hard wood 
ashes) stirred into each barrel will sweeten and clarify it nearly 
equal to rectifying it as above ; but if it is not rectified, it must be 
racked off' to get clear of the pomace, as with this in it, it will sour. 
Oil or whisky barrels are best to put cider in, or J pint sweet oil 
to a barrel, or a gallon of whisky to a barrel, or both, may be 
added, with decidedly good effects ; isinglass, 4 oz. to each barrel, 
helps to clarify and settle cider that is n^t going to be rectified. 

GiNQER Wine. — Water, 10 gals., lump sugar, 20 lbs., bruised 
ginger, 8 oz. ; C or 4 eggs. Boil well and skim ; then pour hot on 
six or seven lemons cut in slices, macerate for 2 hours ; then rack 
and ferment ; next add spirit, 2 qts., and afterwards finings, 1 pint ; 
rummage w-^ll. To make the color, boil i oz. saleratus and J oz. 
alum in I p^nt of water till you get a bright red color. 

Ice Cream. — Have rich, sweet cream, and a half-pound of loaf 
sugar to each ^uart of cieam or milk. If you cannot get cream, 
the best imitation is to boil a soft custard, 6 eggs to each quart or 
milk (eggs well beat). Or another is made as follows, boil 1 
-quart of milk, and stir into it, while boiling, 1 tablespoonful of 
arrowroot wet with cold milk ; when cool, stir into it the yolk of 
1 egg to give it a rich color. Five minutes' boiling is enough for 
either plan. Put the sugar in after they cool ; keep the same pro- 
portions for any amount desired. Or thus : to 6 quarts of milk 
add J lb. Oswego starch, first dissolved ; put the starch in 1 quart 
of the milk ; then mix altogether, and simmer a little (not boil) ; 
sweeten and flavor to your taste ; excellent. The juice of straw- 
berries or raspberries gives a beautiful color and flavor to ice 
creams, or about i ounce essence or extract to 1 gallon, or to suit 
the taste. Have your ice well broken, 1 qt. salt to a bucket of ice. 
About one half hour's constant stirring, with occasional scraping 
down and beating together, will freeze it. 

Substitute for Cream. — Take 2 or 3 whole eggs, beat them well 
up in a basin ; then pour boiling hot tea over them ; pour gra- 
dually to prevent curdling. It is difficult for the taste to distin- 
guish it from rich cream. 

Chicago Ice Cream.— Irish moss soaked in warm water one hour, 
and rinsed well to cleaLeie it of sand and a certain foreign taste; 
then steep it in milk, keeping it Just at the point of boiling or 
simmering for one hour, or until a rich yellow color is given to the 
milk ; without cream or eggs, from 1 to li oz. to a gal. only is 
necessary, and this will do to steep twice. Sweeten and flavor like 
other creams. 

GiNOBR Beer. — Take 5i gals, water, 3 lb. ginger root bruised, 
tartaric acid, | oz., white sugiftr, 2J lbs., whites of 3 eggs well 
beaten, 10 small teaspoonfuls of lemon ess. j yeast, 1 gill ; boil the 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



77 



lbs., bruised 



jat them well 
tn ; pour gra- 
iste to distin- 



root for 30 minutes in 1 gal. of the water ; strain oflF. and put the 
ess. in while hot ; mix, make over uight ; iu the mc.aing, slum and 
bottle, keeping out the sediments. 

Philadelphia Beer. — Take 30 gals, water, brown sugar, 20 lbs. 
ginger root bruised, ^ lb., cream of tartar, lilbs., carbonate of soda, 
3 oz., oil of lemou, cut in a little alcohol, 1 teaspoonful, the white of 

10 eggs well beaten, hops, 2 oz., yeast, 1 qt. The ginger root and 
liops suould be boiled for twenty or thirty minutes in enough of t' e 
vater to make all uiilk-warm ; then strained into the rest and the 
yeast added and allowed to work itself clear ; then bottle. 

Cider without Apples. — Water, 1 gallon ; common sugar, 1 lb. ; 
tartaric acid, J oz. ; yeast, one tablespoontul ; shake well, make in 
the evening, and it will be fit to use next day* 

For Bottling. — Put in a barrel, 5 gals, hot water; 30 lbs. com- 
mon sugar; £ lb. tartaric acid ; 2£ gallons cold water ; 3 pints of 
hop or brewers' yeast, worked into ^.aste with 1 pint water and 1 lb. 
flour. Let it work in the barrel foity-eight hours, the yeast run- 
ning out of the bunghole all the time, putting in a little sweetened 
water occasionally to keep it full ; then bottle, putting in two or 
three broken raisins to each bottle ; and it will nearly equal 
champagne. 

Cheap Cider. — Put in a cask 5 gals, hot water ; 15 ^Ibs. brown 
sugar ; 1 gal. molassps ; i gal. hop or brewers' yeast ; goo4 vine- 
gar, qts. ; btir well, add 2& gals, cold water, ferment as the 
last. 

Another Cider. — Cold water, 20 gals., brown sugar, 15 lbs., 
tartaric acid, j lb. ; rummage well together, and add, if you have 
them, 3 or 4 lbs. of dried sour apples, or boil them aud i)our in the 
expressed juice. This cider will keep longer than the others. 

Spuuce and GiNGCR Beer. — Cold water, 10 gals. ; boiling water, 

11 gals. ; mix in a barrel ; add molasses, 30 lbs., or brown sugar, 
24 lbs. ; oil of spruce or any oil of which you wish the flavor, 1 
oz. ; add 1 pint yeast, ferment, bottle in two or three days. If you 
wish white spruce beer, use lump sugar; for ginger flavor, use 17 
oz. ginger root bruised, and a few hops ; boil for thirty minutes 
iu three gals, of the water, strain and mix well ; let it stand two 
hours and bottle, using yeast, of course, as before. 

Hop Beer, very fine. — Mix 14 lbs molasses and 11 gals, water 
well together, and boil them for 2 hours with 6 oz. hops. When 
quite cool, add a cupful of yeast, and stir it well by a gallon or two 
at a time. Let it ferment for 16 hours, in a tub covered with a 
sack, then put it into a 9-gallon cask, and keep it filled up ; bung 
it down in 2 days, and in 7 days it will be fit to drink, and will be 
stronger than London porter. 

Edinburgh Ale.— Employ the best pale malt — Ist, mash 2 bar- 
rels pr. quarter, at 183°, mash three-quarters ofah hour, let it stand 
1 hour, and allow half an hour to run off the wort ; 2d, mash I 
barrel ])er quarter, at 180", mash three-fourths of an hour, let it. 
stand three-fourths, and tap as before ; 3d, mash 1 barrel per qiiar- 
ter, at 170°. mash half an hour, let it stand half an hour, and tap 
as before. The first and second wort may be mixed togetlier, boiling 
them about an ho>u' or an hour and a quarter, with a quantity of 
hops proportioned to the time the ale is recjuircd to be kept. The 



IS 



GROCERS 



C<»NTi'ECTIONERS RECEIPTS. 



i: 



firpt two may 1> inued at the heat of 60'*, in the gyletua, and the 
second should be fermented separately for small beer. The best 
hops should be uejud in the proportion of about 4 lbs. for every 
quarter of maltemployed. 

Bottling Porter.— Brown Stout. Pale malt, 2 quarters ; amber 
and brown malt, of each U do. ; mash at 3 times, with 12, 7, and 
6 barrels of water; boil with hops, 50 lbs., set with yeast, 29 lbs. 
Product, 17 barrels, or IJ times the malt. 

Lemon Peer. — To make 20 gals., boil 6 oz. of ginger root bruised, 
i lb. cream of tartar, for 20 or 30 minutes, in 2 or 3 gals, water ; 
this will be strained in 13 Ibg. coffee sugar, on which you have 
put i oz. oil of lamon, and six f^ood lemons squeezed up together, 
having warm water enough to make the whole 20 gals, just so 
hot that you can hold your hand in it without burning, or about 
70 degrees of heat ; put in 1 J pints of hop or brewers' yeast, worked 
into paste with 5 or 6 oz. flour. Let it work over night, then strain 
and bottle for use. 

Table Bebb. — Malt, 8 bushels, hops, 7 Iba., molasseSj 25 lbs. j brew 
for 10 barrels ; smaller quantity in proportion. 

Hop Beer. — Hops, 6 ounces, molasses, 5 quarts ; boil the hops till 
the strength ia out, strain them into a 30 gallon ba^el ; add the 
molasses and 1 teacupful of yeast, and fill up with water ; shake it 
well, and leave the bung out till fermented, which will be in about 
24 hours. Bung up, and it will be fit for U"^"? in about three days. 

Molasses Beer. — Hops, 1 oz. ; water, 1 gi^l. ; boil for 10 minutes, 
strain, add molasses, 1 lb., and when luke-warm, yeast, 1 spoonful. 
Ferment. ^' 

Root Beer. — For 10 gallons beer, take 3 lbs. common burdock 
root, or 1 oz. essence of sassafras ; ^ lb. good hops ; 1 pint corn, 
roasted brown. Boil the whole in 6 gallons pure water until the 
strength of the materials is obtained ; strain while hot into a ke^, 
adding enough cold water to make 10 gallons. When nearly * r. .! 
add clean molassea or syrup until palatable, — not sickishly sw; ot 
Add also as much fresh yeast as will raise a batch of eight loa !^-^ 
of bread. Place the keg in a cellar or other cool place, and ia 
forty-eight hours you will have a keg of first-rate sparkling root 
beer. 

Cheap Beer. — "Water, 15 gals, j boil half the water with i lb. 
hops ; then add to the other half in the tun, and mix well with 1 
gal. molasses and a little yeast. 

To RESTORE Sour Beer.— Good hops, i lb., powdered chalk, 2 lbs. 
Put in the hole of the cask, and bung close for a few days ; for frosted 
beer, add some finings, a few handfuls of flour, and some scalled 
hops ; for ropy beer^ use a handful or two of flour, the same of hops, 
with a little powdered alum to each barrel. Rummage well. 

To IMPROVE Tir, f\.AV0R OF Beer.— Bruised ginger, 1 oz. ; bruised 
cloves, i oz. ; a few scaided hops and a doz. broken coarse biscuits 
< . avery two barrels. Rumoiagfc veil. 

jBfliONADB. — White sugar, 1 lb., tartaric acid, \ ounce, essence of 
kmon, 30 drops, -^ater 3 qt.\ Mix. 

Cream Soda. — Loaf sugar, ten lbs., water, 3 ^a\. ; warm gradu- 
ally so as not to bnvn ; goou rich cream, 2 quarts, extract vanilla, 
lj| ourpices, extract nutmeg, J our.ce, t.arta,ric acid, 4 ounces. Just 



flour. 



^^^^ 



i. 

Q, and the 
Tho best 
for every 

;rs ; amber 
12, 7, and 
ist, 29 lbs. 

ot bruised, 
As. water ; 
you have 
» together, 
lis. just so 
J, or about 
,3t, worked 
thenstraia 

1 lbs. \ brew 

18 hops till 
il ; add the 
r ; shake it 
be in about 
three days. 
10 minutes, 
1 spoonful. 

>n burdock 
pint corn, 
until the 
nto a ke^, 
learly ^ r" ' 
ily svviot 
^ht loa ' i 
, and in 
kling root 



with i lb. 
'ell with 1 

lialk, 2 lbs. 

for frosted 
ne scalled 
me of hops, 

well. 

5. ; bruised 
rse biscuits 

essence of 

irm gradu- 
ct vanilla, 
ces. Just 



fiHOi ERt AND confectioners' RECEIPTS. 



79 



bring to a boiling heat ; for if you cook it any length of time, it 
will crystallize ; use 4 or 5 spoonfuls of this syrup instead 
of three, as in other syrups ; put J teaspoonful of soda to rf 
glass, if used without a fountain. For charged fountains no acid 
is used. 

Frbbzino PflEPARATiON.— Common sal-ammoniac, well pulver- 
ized. 1 part ; saltpetre, 2 parts ; mix well together. Then take com- 
mon soda, well pulverized. To use, take equal quantities of these 
preparations (which must be kept separate and well covered pre- 
vious to usin^) and put them in the freezing pot ; add of water a 
proper quantity, and put in the article to be frozen in a proper 
vessel ; cover up, and your wants will soon be supplied. For freez- 
ing cream or wines this cannot be beat. 

Portable Lemonade, — Tartaric acid, 1 ounce, white sugar, 2 lbs., 
essence of lemon, quarter ounce ; powder and keep dry for use. 
One dessert spoonful will make a glass of lemonade. 

Imperial OtSAM Nectar. — Part 1st, take I gallon water, loaf 
suk'ar, 6 lbs., tartaric acid, 6 ounces, gum arable, 1 ounce. Part 2d, 
flour, 4 teaspoonfuls, the whites of 5 eggs ; beat finely together ; 
then add * pi at water ; when the first part is blood warm, put ia 
the second ; boil 3 minutes, and it is done. Directions : 3 table- 
spoonfuls ( * syrup to two-thirds of a glass of water ; add one- 
third ieasp )onful of carbonate of soda, made finp ; stir well, and 
drink at t our leisure. 

Peppermint CoRDiAL.—Good whisky, 10 galls., water, 10 galls., 
white sugar, 10 lbs., oil peppermint. 1 ounce, in 1 pint alcohol, I lb. 
flour weO. T/orked in the fluid, ^ Id. burned sugar to color. Mix, 
and let it 8land one week before using. Other oil in place of pep- 
permint, and you have any flavor desired. 

SiLVER-rop Drink. — "Water, 3 qts., white sugar, 4 lbs., ess. of lemon, 
4 teaspoonfuls, white of 5 eggs, beat with 1 tablespoonful of flour : 
boil to form a syrup ; then divide into equal parts, and to one add 
3 ounces tartaric acid, to the other 4 ounces of carbonate of soda ; 
put in a teaspoonful of each of the syrups, more or less (according 
to the size of the glass), to two-thirds of a glass of water ; drink 
quick. 

Sangareh. — Wine, ale, or porter, or two-thirds water, hot or cold 
— according to the season of the year, loaf sugar to taste, with nut- 
meg. 

Stoughtcn Bitters. — Gentian, 4 ounces, orange peel, 4 ounces, 
Columbo, 4 ounces, camomile flowers, 4 ounces, quassia, A ounces, 
burtfed sugar, lib., -^hisky, 2^ galls. Mix and let it stand 1 week. 
Bottle the clear liquor. 

Soda Syrups. — Loaf or crushed sugar, 8 lbs., pure water, 1 gallon, 
gum arabic, 2 oz. ; mix in a brass or copper kettle. Boil until the 
gum is dissolved, then skim and strain through white flannel, after 
which add tartaric acid, 5 J oz. ; dissolve in hot water ; to flavor, use 
extract of lemon, orange, vanilla, rose, sarsaparilla, strawberry. 
&c., Ac, ^ oz. or to your taste. If you use juice of lemon, add 2^ 
lbs. of sugar to a pint, you do not need '^.ny tartaric acid with it; 
now use two tablespoonfuls of syruy- ■:. ., ^^f ft tumbler of water, 
and J teaspoonful of super carbomitA' il .=io( i,, made fine; drink 
quick. For soda fouatams, 1 oz. of su per-ci^ >. onate of soda is used 



''*^3'MS 



80 



0R0CER8 AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



to 1 gallon of water. For charged fountains no acids are needed 
VI the syrups. 

Common Small Beer. — A handful of hops to a pail of water, a 
pint of bran and half a pint of u^.olasscs, a cup of yeast and a 
spoonful of ginger. 

Royal Pop. — Cream tartar, 1 lb., ginger, 1| oz., white sugar, 7 
lbs., essence of lemon, 1 drachm, water, 6 galls., yeast, J pint. Tie 
the corks down. 

Raspberry Syrup without Raspberries. — First make a syrup 
with 36 lbs. of white sugar, and 10 gallons of water, and put it into 
a clean mixing barrel. Then disnolve i lb. of tartaric acid in 1 qt. 
of cold water, and add to the syrup. Next take I lb. orris root, 
and pour over it half a gallon of hoiling water; let it infuse until 
cold, then filter, and uut it into the mixing barrel, stirring it well. 

To Color. — feoil A oz. of cochineal ; 5 t)z. cream tartar; \ oz. 
saleratus, and \ oz. tdum in 1 qt. of water till you get a bright red 
color, and add this to the syrup till the color suits. The above is 
a very valuable receipt, and will make 16 gals, syrup at a very low 
cost per gallon, if it is desirable to produoe a richer syrup, add 
more sugar. Colors ought to be made in a brass or copper kettle. 

Bottled Soda Wateh without a Machine. — In each gallon of 
water to be used, carefully dissolve J lb. of crushed sugar, and one 
ounce of super-carbonate of soda ; then fill pint bottles with-this 
water, have your corks ready ; now drop into each bottle \ f]ram 
of puiverizea citric acid, and immediately cork and tie dowj. 
Uandle the Lottloa carefully, and keep cool until needed. More 
au£,ar may be added if desired. 

OvsTEH Soup. — To each dozen or uish of oysters put \ pint of 
"water; m'ik 1 gill; butter^ oz. ; jiowdcred crackers to thicken; 
bring the ousters and water to a boil, th^n add the other ingredientf". 
previously mixed together, and boil from three to n\c minutes onlj. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste. 

Mock Terrapin. — A supper dish. Half a taifs liver ; seasoned, fry 
brown. Hash it, not very fine, dust thickly with flour, a teaspoon 
mixed mijstard, as much cayenne pepper as will lie on a half Jame ; 
2 hard eggs, chopped fine, a lump of butter as large as an egg, a 
tea cupof ^• iter. Let it boil a minute oi two ; cold veal will do, if 
liver is not ]iked. 

Mutton Larricot. — Take a loin of mutton, cut it into small 
chops, season it with ground pep/er, aUsj ice and salt, let it stand 
a nignt, and then fry it. Hav' g'td (:;"a y well seasoned with 
flour, butter, catsup and peppei, if xi. cessury. Boil turnips and 
carrot?, cut them small^ and add to the mi itox: stewed in the gravy, 
with the yolks of hard boiled eggs and force loeat balls. 

Imitation Apple Butter. — Vinegar, 1 qt. ; cheap molasses, 1 qtj 
mix together, set over the fire till if comiuences to cook ; take it off, 
add 10 tablespoonfuls of wheat flour, a'^.d cold water to make a 
batter, then add 1 qt. scaldit/g water, istir and cook for li; minutes. 

Blackberry Wine, — Wat 1 the berries, and pour 1 qt. of boiling 
water to each gal. Let the mixturo stand 24 hours, stirring occa- 
sionally : then strain and measure into a keg, adding 2 ibt?. sugar, 
and good rye whisky 1 pint, or best alcohol, ^ pint to each gal. 
Cork tight.' and jiutaway for use. The best wine that can be made. 



rs. 



GROCERg AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 81 



Eire needed 

of water, a 
east and a 

ite sugar, 7 
t pint. Tie 

,ke a sjrrup 
I put it into 
cid in 1 qt. 
orris root, 
infuse until 
ing it well, 
irtar; ^ oz. 
k bright red 
he above is 
a very low 

syrup, add 
pper kettle, 
h gallon of 
jar, and one 
ss witb-this 
;tle i ']rain 

tie dow:, 
ded. More 

ut I pint of 
to thicken; 
ingredient!>i 
Inutesonbi'- 

asoned, fry 
a teaspoon 
, half J.ime ; 
is an egg, a 
1 will do, if 

into smull 
let it stand 
soned with 
urnips and 
I the gravy, 

8. 

asses, 1 qtjj 
; take it oft, 
to make a 
lU minutes. 
. of boiling 
irring occa- 
J ibi?. sugar, 
each gal. 
u be made. 






Lbhon &TT up. — Havana sugar, 1 lb., boil in water down to a quart, 
drop in thi white of 1 egg, and strain it. Add \ oz. tartaric acid : 
let it stand ?. days ; shake often ; 12 drops essence of lemon will 
much improve it. 

SupEwoB Raisin Winb.— Take 30 lbs. of chopped raisins free from 
stems and dust ; put them in a large keg, and add to them 10 gals, 
soft water ; let tnem stand two weeks unbunged, shaking occa- 
sionally (warm place in winter), then strain through woollen, or 
(ilter ; color with burnt sugar ; bottle and cork well for use. The 
more raisins the better the wine, not exceeding 5 lbs. to each gal- 
lon. 

Raisin Winb equal to Sherry. — Boil the proper quantity of 
water and let it stand till cold. To each gal. of this water add 4 
lbs. of chopped raisins, previously well washed, and fveed from 
stalks ; let ihe whole stand fbr 1 'month, stirring frequently; then 
remove the raisins, and bung up closely for 1 month more ; then 
rack into another vessel, leaving all sediment behind, which must 
be repeated till it becomes fine ; then to every 10 gals, add 6 lbs. of 
fine-ougar, and 1 doz. of good oranges, the rinds being pared very 
thin, and infused in 2 ots. of brandy, which should be added to the 
liquor at its last racking. Let the whole stand three months 
in the cask, then bottle. It should remain bottled twelvo-months. 
To give it the flavor of Madeira, when it is in the cask, put in 
a couple of green citrons, and let tliem remain till the wine is 
bottled. 

Port Wine. — Worked cider, 42 gals. ; good port wine, 12 gals. : 
good brandy, 3 gals. ; pure spirits. 6 gals ; mix. Elderberries and 
Lloes, and the fruit of the black naws, make a fine purple color 
lor Avines, or use burnt sugar. 

American Champagne. — Good cider (crab-apple cider is the 
best), 7 gals. ; best fourth-proof brandy, 1 qt. ; genuine champagne 
wiue, 5 qts. ; milk, 1 gal. ; oitartrate of potassa, 2 oz. Mix, and let 
btaud a short time ; bottle while feimenting. An excellent imita- 
tion. 

British Chaupaone. — Loaf-sugar, 56 lbs. ; brown sugar (pale), 48 
lbs. ; water (warm), 45 gals.; white tartar, 4 oz. ; mix, and at a 
l)roper temperature add yeast, 1 qt. ; afterwards sweet cider. 5 
gals ; bruised wild chemes, 14 or 15 oz. ; pale spirits, 1 gal. ; 
orris-powder, I oz. Bottle while fermenting. 

British Madeira.— Pale malt. 1 bushel ; boiling water, 12 gals.; 
mash and strain ; then add white sugar, 4 lbs. ; yeasl, 1 lb. 
Ferment, next add raisin or U«pe wine, 3 qts. ; brandy, 3 qts. : 
sherry, 2 ots. ; port, 2 qts. ; bung down. The malt may be mashed 
'^G;ain for bottle beer. 

Currant axd other Fruit Wines. — To every gallon of expressed 
juice, add 2 gals. Roft water, 6 lbs. brown "sugar, cream tanar, 
] I oz. ; and qt. brandy to every 6 gals. ; some prefer it without 
brandy. After fermentation, take 4 oz. isinglass dissolved in 1 pt. 
of the wine, and put to each barrel, which will fiae and clear 
it ; when it must be drawn into cltan casks, or bottled, which 
is preferable. 

Blackherby and Strawberry Wines are made by lakiug the 
abote wine when made with port wiue^ and for every 10 gals. 



r 



82 



GROOERB AND CONFEOTIONERS' RECEIPTS, 



i ! 



I 



C hopped raisingj 400 lbs.; soft water. 100 gala.: 
B tartar, 1 lb. ; cider, IG gals. Let tnem stand 



from 4 to 6 atf). of the fresh fruit, bruised and strained, are added, 
and let ataaa four days till the flavor is extracted ; when bottling, 
add 3 or four broken raisins to each bottle. 

MoBBLLA Wind.— To each quart of th»i expressed juice of the mor- 
ella, or tame cherries, add 3 qts. water, and 4 lbs. of coarse brown 
sugar ; let them ferment, and skim till worked clear ; then draw off, 
avoiding the sediment at the bottom. Bung up, or bottle, which 
is beat for all wines, letting the bottles lie always on the side, 
either for wines or beers. 

London Sherry. — 
sugar, 45 lbs. ; white 

together in a close vessel one month ; stir frequently. Then add of 
spirits, 8 gals. ; wild cherries bruised, 8 lbs. Let them stand one 
month longer, and fine with isinglass. 

Enolisf Patent Wine from Rhubarb. — To each gal. of mice, add 
1 gal. soft water, in which 7 lbs. brown sugar have been dissolved ; 
fill a keg or barrel with this proportion, leaving the bung out, 
and keep it filled with sweetened water as it works off, until clear. 
Any other vegetable extract may be used if tbis is not liked : then 
bung down or bottle as you please. The stalks will yield ^ their 
weight in j^ic6 ; fine and settle with isinglass as above. This wine 
\/ill not lead to intemperance. 

Various Wines. — ^To 28 gals, clarified cider add good brandy, I 
gal. ; crude tartar (this is what is deposited by grape wines), milk 
to settle it, 1 pt. ; draw off 36 hours after thoroughly mixing. 

Ginger Wine. — Put one oz. of good ginger-root bruised in I qt. 
95 per. cent, alcohol; let it stand nine days, and strain ; add 4 qts. 
water, and 1 lb. 'white sugar dissolved in hot water, color with 
tincture of Sanders to suit. For bar-purposes add 1 pt. port 
wine. 

Another. — To 1 qt. 95 per ctnt. alcohol add 1 oz. best ginger- 
root (bruised but not ground), 5 grs. capsicum, and 1 dr. tartaric* 
acid. Let it stand one week and filter ; now add 1 gal. water in 
which 1 lb. of crushed sugar has been boiled. Mix when cold. To 
make the color, boil | oz. cochineal, ^ oz. cream tartar, J oz. sale- 
ratus, and i oz. alum, in one pt. of water till you get a bright-red 
color. 

To RESTORE Flat WiNir. — Add 4 or 5 gals, of sugar, honey, or 
bruised raisins to every 100 gals., and bung close ; a little spirit may 
be added, to roughen ; take bruised sloes, or powdered catechu, and 
add to the wine in suitable proportions, or add a small quantity of 
bruised berries of the mountain ash, to allay inordinate flatness. Let 
it stand 2 hours and bottle, using yeast, of course^ as before. 

White Wines are generally fined by isinglass in the proportion 
of li oz. (dissolved in IJ pts. of water, and thinned with some of the 
wine) to the hogshead. Bed Wines are generally fined with the 
whites of eggs, in the proportion of 12 to 18 to each pipe ; theymust 
bo well beaten to a froth with about 1 pt. of water, and afterwards 
mixftd with a little of the wine, before adding them to the liquor. 
Rummage well. 

Champ AQNK Cider. — Good pale cider, 1 hhd. ; spirit, 3 gals. ; sugar, 
20 lbs. ; mix, and let it stand one fortnight j then fine with skimmed 
milk, i gal. ; this will be very pale, and a iimilar article, -niien pro- 






I. 

,re added, 
botiliag, 

f the mor- 
:8e brown 
I draw oflF, 
tie, which 
the side, 

, 100 gala.: 
iiem stand 
aen add of 
stand one 

Juice, add 
dissolved ; 
bung out, 
mtil clear, 
iked : then 
eld I their 
This wine 

I brandy, I 
ines), milk 
:ing. 

led in I qt. 

add 4:C^ta. 

solor with 

1 pt. port 

eat ginger- 
r. tartaric - 
1. water in 
a cold. To 
, I oz. sale- 
bright-red 

•, honey, or 
) spirit may 
ktechu, and 
quantity of 
atness. Let 
fore. 

proportion 

some of the 

d with the 

; theymust 

afterwards 

the liquor. 

als. ; sugar, 
th skimmed 
I, yriieu. prQ- 



flROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS, 83 

Eerly bottled and labelled, opens so brisk, that even good judges . 
ave mistaken it for genuine champagne. 

BsaLiN Gabrawat Gordiai..— Take 8 ^als. spirit, BO per cent. ; 1 oz. 
oil of carraway, which you dissolve in spirit 95 per cent. ; 8 lbs. suear ; 
8 lbs. water. Dissolve your sugar in the water ; mix, stir and mter. 

Stomach Bittbbs Equal to Hostbttbrs'.— European gentian 
root, 1^ oz. ; orange peel, 2| oz. ; cinnamon, i oz. ; anise seed, i oz. ; 
coriander seed, ^ oz. ; cardamom seed, } oz. ; unground Peruvian 
bark, | oz. ; gum kino, ^ oz. ; bruise all these articles, and put them 
into the best alcohol, 1 pt. ; let it stand a week, and pour off the 
clear tincture ; then boil the dregs a few minutes in 1 qt. of water, 
strain, and preps out all the strength ; now dissolve loaf sugar, 1 lb., 
in the hot liquid, adding 3 qts. cold water, and mix with the spirit 
tincture first poured off, or you can add tnese, and let it stand on 
the dregs if preferred. 

BoKBBs Bitters.— Rasped quassia, 1| oz. ; calamus, li oz. ; pow- 
dered catechu, 1^ oz. ; cardamom, 1 oz. ; dried orange peel, 2 oz. ; 
macerate the above ten days in J gal. strong whisky, and then fil- 
ter, and add 2 gals, water ; color with mallow or malva flowers. 

Cdracoa Cordial, 40 Gals. — Essence of bitter orangej, 2 oz. ; ess. 
o neroli, 2 oz. ; ess. of cinoamon, ^ oz. ; 3 drs. mace, infused in alco- 
hol. Dissolve the above essences in 1 gal. alcohol, 95 per cent. ; 
then put in a clean barrel 13 gals. al<^ol, 85 per cent. ; 26 gals, 
i^igar syrup, 30 degrees Baumo ; and add 1 gal. perfumed spirit as 
above. Color with saffron or turmeric. 

Curaooa d'Hoi^amdb, 20 Gals. — Curacoa orange-peel, 2 lbs ; ^ lb. 
Ceylon cinnamon. Let them soak in water ; boil them for five 
minutes with the juice of 32 oranges and 14 gals, of plain white 
syrup ; then add 6 gals, alcohol, 95 per cent. ; strain, niter ; color 
dark yellow with sugar coloring. 

Anisbttb Cordial, 40 GAi^s. — Put in a barrel 13 gals, alcohol, 75 
per cent. Dissolve 3j oz. essence of green anise-seed in I gal. 95 
percent, alcohol, and add ^ gal. orange-flowerwater : 8 or ten drops 
infusion of mace, and 5 drops essence of cinnamon. Then put in the 
barrel 26 gals, sugar syrup, 25 degrees Baume ; stir fifteen minutes, 
and let it rest four or five days ; then filter. Add 2 or 3 sheets of 
filtering paper. 

Katafia. — Ratafia may be made with the juice of any fruit. Take 
3 gals, cherry- iuice, and 4 lbs. sugar, which you dissolve in the juice ; 
steep in 2^ gals, brandy ten days; 2 drs. cinnamon, 24 cloves; 16 
oz. peach-leaves ; 8 oz. bruised cherry kernels. Filter, mix both 
liquids, and filter again. 

Arrack Punch Syrup.— 53J lbs. sugar ; 3J gals, water. Boil up 
well ; then add 1§ gals. Itmon-juice to ihe boiling sugar, and stir 
till the liquid is clear ; pour it in a clean tub, and when nearly cool, 
add 5 gals. Batavia arrack , then filter. 

SiMPLB Syrup.-»'To 8 lbs. best white sugar add 2 qts. water, and 
the whites of 2 eggs ; stir nntil all the sugar is dissolved ; simmer 
for two or three minutes : skim well, and strain through a fine flan- 
nel bag. 

Sabsapabilla Syrup.~To simple syrup add 10 drops oil of anise, 
20 drops oil of wintergreen, 20 drops oil of sassafras, and 6 oz. of 
caramel or coloring to the gallon. Before the oils are added to th» 



i 



84 



QROCERg AND CONF£CTION£RS RECEIPTS. 



syrup, they shoald be cut by (grinding them in a mortar \rith as 
much sugar as they will moisten, or mix with a small quantity ot 
alcohol. 

Vauilla Stbup.~To simple syrup, add J oz. of ext. of vanilla to 
the gallon. 

GiNQSB Strup. — Bruised Jamaica ginger, 1 oz. ; boiling water, 1 
pt. ; macerate tor four hours ; add fine wmte sugar, 2 lbs. ; and strain 
through a fine flannel bag. Ginger syrup may also be made by ad- 
ding 2 oz. of the ext. of ginger to 1 gal. of simple syrup. 

Strawberry Syrup without Strawbsbries. — Add to 1 gal. simple 
syrup 2 teaspoons of essence of strawberry, and i oz. tartaric acid; 
color with coloring made as follows : boil 1 oz. uf cochineal with 
half a teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

Strawberry Syrup. — Inclose fresh strawberries in a coarse bag, 
press out the juice, and to each at. add 1 pt. water and 6 lbs. white 
sugar ; dissolve by raising it to the boiling point, and strain j bottle 
and cork hot, and keep in a cool place. 

Blackberry Syrup is made as directed for strawberry, adding 
to each qt. 1 oz. best French brandy. 

Wild Cherry Syrup. — Steep 4oz. wild cherry bark, well bruised 
in 1 pt. 01 cold water, for thirty-six hours; press out the infusion; 
let it stand till clear, decant and add 1^ lbs. fine white sugar ; mix 
and strain. 

Nectar Syrup. — Add to orgeat syrup 1 pt. of best port wine, and 
^ oz. extract of vanilla to the gal. ; or flavor 1 gal. simple syrup 
with 1 teaspoonful ext. of nectar. 

Orgeat Syrup. — Take 3 oz. of sweet almonds, and j oz. bitter 
almonds; gum arabic,-in powder, i oz. ; sugar in powder, 3uz. ; rub 
together in a mortar, adding water from time to time until the 
mixture measures 1 qt. Strain through a cloth, and mix with 1 
gal. of simple syrup. 

Orange Flower Syrup. — Add to 1 gal. of simple syrup, J oz. ext. 
of oraug6 flowers. 

Orange Syrup. — Grate off the outside yellow peel of fresh and 
ripe oranges ; cut them and express the juice : to each qt. add 1 pt. 
water and 6 lbs. sugar, previously well mixed with the grated peel. 
Dissolve by gentle heat, then strain. 

Pine Apple Syrup.— ]?are and mash the fruit in a marble or por- 
celain mortar, with a small quantity ot sugar ; express the juice, and, 
for each qt. take IJ pts. of water and 6 lbs. fine sugar; boil the 
sugar and water ; then add the juice ; remove from the fire ; skim 
and strain. Or make it with the essence directed I'or strawberry. 

Pear Syrup. — Make as directed for pi^e apple syrup ; or use the 
essence of pear, by adding to each gallon of simple syrup, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of essence of pear, and I oz. tartaric acid. 

Banana Syrup. — ^Make as directed for pine apple syrup, or with, 
the appropriate essence and acid as above. 

Apple Syrup. — Make as directed for pine apple syrup, or with 
the appropriate fruit and essences as above. 

Cream Syrup. — Fresh cream, 1 pt. ; fresh milk, 1 pt. ; fine pow- 
dered sugar, 3 lbs.; beat the sugar with the milk, and the whites of 
2 eggs; then mix with the cream.% Flavor with lemon, vauilja, or 
strawberry. Keep in a coor place, well bottled. 



OROOERS AND CONrEOTIONIBS' RECEIPTS. 



85 



'S. 

ar 'vrith as 
quantity ot 

* vanilla to 

ig water, 1 
; and strain 
lade by ad- 
gal, simple 
rtaric acid ; 
Liueul \fiih 

coarse bag, 
6 lbs. wliite 
rain \ bottle 

rry, adding 

well bruised 

le infusion ; 

sugar ', mix 

rt wine, and 
imple syrup 

I oz. bitter 

r, 3 oz. ; rub 

le until the 

mix with 1 

ip, i oz. ext. 

)f fresh and 
jt. add 1 pt. 
grated peel. 

irble or por- 
le juice, and, 
ir; boil the 
e fire ; skim 
trawberry. 
; or use the 
lyrup, 2 tea- 

rup, or with 

:up, or with 

. ; fine pow- 
,he whites of 
,, vanillaj or 



BuTTRio Etrkb is mach nied to impart a pine apple flavor to 
mm. Dissolved in 8 or 10 parts of alcohol, it forms the pine apple 
essence. From 20 to 25 drops of this essence, added to 1 lb. 
nugar, containing a little citric acid, imparts to the mixture a strong 
taste of pine apple. 

Amtlo-Aobtio Bthir in a preparation of fniit-oil and other 
ingredients, and, when diluted with alcohol^ it is sold as essence qf 
Jargonelle pear, sad ifl used for flavoring different liquors. Fifteen 
parts araylo-acetic eti) r, with half a part of acetic ether, dissolved 
in 100 parts of alcohol, form what may be called the Bergamot- 
pear essence, which, when employed to flavor sugar, acidulated 
with a little citric acid, imparts the odor of the Beagamot pear, 
and a fruity, refreshing taste. 

Pblauoonatb on Ethylio Etheu Cpelargonic ether) has the 
agreeable odor of the quince, and, when dissolved in alcohol in 
due proportion, forms the quince essence. 

AcBTATB OF Amvlic Ethbr (samc as amylo ether), mixed with 
butyric ether, forma in alcoholic solution the banana essence. 

Valerianate of Amylic Ether.— An alcoholic solution of this 
ether in the proportion of 1 part to 6 or 8 of alcohol, forms a flavor- 
ing liquid under the name of apple essence. 

Milk Punch. — One tablespoonful of fine white sugar, 2 ditto of 
water, I wine glass of Cognac brandy, I ditto Santa Cruz rum, i 
tumblerful of shaved ico ; fill with milk. Shake the ingredients well 
together, and grate a little nutmeg on top. To make it hot, use 
hot milk and no ice. 

Glasgow Pcnch. — Melt lump-sugar in cold water, with the juice 
of a couple of lemons, passed through a fine wire strainer ; this is 
sherbet, and most be will mingled. Then add old Jamaica mm, 
one part of rum to five of sherbet. Cut a couple of lemons in two, 
and run each section rapidly around the edge of the jug or bowl, 
gently squeezing in some of the delicate acid, when all is ready. 

Mint JiLBP.— One tablespoonful of white pulverized sugar, 2 J 
ditto water ; mix well with a spoon. Take 3 or 4 sprigs of fresh 
mint, press them well in the sugar and water, add IJ wine glasses 
of Cognac brandy, and fill the glass with shaved ice, then draw 
out the sprigs of mint, and insert them in the ice with the stems 
downwards, so that the leaves will be above in the shape of a bou- 
quet ; arrange berries and .small pieces of sliced orange on top in a 
tasty manner, dash with Jamaica rum, and sprinkle sugar on top. 
Sip with a glass tube or straw. 

Cider Nectar. — One (jt. cider, 1 bottle soda watery I glass sherry. 
1 small glass brandy, juice of half a lemon, peel of i of a lemonj 
sugar and nutmeg to taste. Flavor it with extract of pine apple, 
strain, and ice if all well. 

Half and Half. — In London, this drink is made by mixing half 

Sorter and half ale ; in America, it is made by mixing half new and 
alf old ale. 

Apple Toddy. — One tablespoonful of fine white sugar, 1 wine- 
glass of cider brandy, i of a baked apple. Fill the glass two- 
thirds full of boiling water, and s^rate a little nutmeg on top. 
' Apple Punch.— Lay in a chin^ bowl slices of apples and lemons 
^alternately, each laver being thickly strewed with powdered sugar. 






o.T^.r^ 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



11.25 



lii|2^ |2.5 
■50 ■^~ MI^K 



1.4 



1.6 



.^ 



V 



<^ 



/; 






<5> 






•> 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 




23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 




% 



V 



V 








;\ 



t" .,*. "<?> 



"/. 



,*>» 






f/- 



J 








\ 



\ 



\ w^ 







'%^ 




m 



PI 

Hi' ' 



86 



OROOSRS AND OONTECTIONEBS BEOEIPTS. 



Pour over the frait, when the bowl is half filled, a bottle of claret ; 
cover, and let it stand for 6 hoars. Then pour it through a mus- 
lin bag, and it is all readj. 

Old Mam's MiIiK.— One wine-glass of port wine, 1 teaspoonAil of 
sugar. Fill the tumbler one third full of hot milk. 

Pkrivot Lovb.— One tablespoonful sugar, 1 piece each of 
orange and lemon peel. Fill the tumbler one-third full of shaved 
^ce, and fill balance with wine ; ornament in a tasty manner with 
berries in season ; sip through a straw. 

MoLASSBB Candy. — West-Indian molasses, 1 gallon ; brown sugar, 
2 lbs. : boil the molasses aud sugar in a preserving kettle over a 
slow fire; when done enough it will cease boiling ; stir frequently, 
iiud, when nearly done, stir in the juice of four lemons, or two tea- 
spoonfuls of essence of lemon ; afterwards butter a pan, and pour out. 

n ONFSOTIONBRS' GoLORS. — Aedf cochineal, 1 oz. ; boil 5 minutes 
in half pint water ; then add cream tartar, 1 oz. ; pounded alum, | 
oz. ; boil 10 minutes longer, add sugar, 2 oz. ; and bottle for use. 
£lue, put a little warm water on a plate, and rub in indieo till the 
required color is got. Yellow, rub with some water a little yellow 
gamboge on a puite, or infuse the heart of a yellow-lily flower 
with milk-warm water. Green, boil the leaves of spinach about 1 
ainute in a little water, and, wnen strained, bottle for use. 

To CAKbT SnoAB.— Dissolve 2 parts of double refined sugar in 1 
of water. Great care must be taken that the syrup does not boil 
over, and that the sugar is not burnt. The first degree is called 
the thread, which is subdivided into the little and great thread ; 
if you dip ^our finger in the syrup, and apply it to the thumb, the 
tenacity ot the f^rup will, on separating the finger and thumb, af- 
ford a threa ' g jh shortly breaks, this is the little thread : if the 
thread admt;»> of a greater extension of finger and thumb, it is 
called the great thread : by longer boiling you obtain the pearl, 
which admits of being drawn without breaking by the utmost ex- 
tension of finger and thumb ; this makes candied sugar : by further 
boiling vou obtain the blue, which is known by dipping a skimmer 
with holes in the syrup, ana blowing through them j if bubbles «».re 
perceived, you have got the blow. Thd feather implies more numer- 
ous bubbles, and then the sugar will fly off like flakes while the 
skimmer is being tossed. By boiling longer^ you obtain the crock ; 
it will crack when broken, and does not stick: to the teeth ; dip a 
teaspoon into the sugar, and let it droD to the bottom of a pan of 
cold water. If the Sugar remains hard, it has attained the degree 
termed crack. 

Pio Candy. — Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water ; set over a 
slow fire. When done, add a few drops of vinegar and a lump of 
butter, and pour into pans in which split figs are laid. 

Raisin Candy can be made in the same manner, substituting 
stoned raisins for the figs. Common molasses candy is very nice 
with all kinds of nuts added. 

Scotch Bdttbr ANDV.—Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water ; 
dissolve, and boil. When done, add one tablespoonful of butter, 
and enough lemon juice and oil of lemon to flavor. 

Common Lbmon Candy.— Take 3 lbs. of coarse brown sugar ; add 
to it three teacupfals of water, ajid set over a slow fire for half 



:s. • 

) of claret ; 
ugh a mus- 

kspoonfUi of 

»o each of 
11 of shaved 
lanuer with 

»rown sugar, 
:ettle over a 
r frequently, 
, or two tea- 
md pour out. 
il 5 minutea 
aded alum, i 
ottle for use. 
ttdigo till the 
littte yellow 
j^-lily flower 
nach about I 
r use. 

Bd sugar in 1 
does not boil 
gree is called 
;reat thread ; 
[e thumb, the 
ad thumb, af- 
hread: if the 
thumb, it is 
ia the pearl, 
le utmost ex- 
^r : by further 
ig a skimmer 
f bubbles «-re 
more numer- 
kes while the 
lin the crock ; 
5 teeth ; dip a 
m of a pan of 
,ed the degree 

er : set over a 
Mid a lump of 

substituting 
y is very nice 

Ipint of water; 
Vul of butter, 

yvn sugar ; add 
fw fire for half 



OBOCIBS AND COMrEGTIONEBS' BECEIPT8. 87 

an hour ; put to it a little gum arabic dissolved in hot water; this 
is to clear it. Oontinue to take off the scum as long as any rises. 
When perfectly clear, try it by dipping a pipe-stem first into it and 
then into cold water, or by taking a spoonful of it into a saucer ; 
if done, it will snap like glass. Flavor with essence of lemon 
and cut it into sticks. 

Pbppkbmint, Rosb, or HoARHoniiD Camdt.— They may be made 
as lemon candy. Flavor with essence of rose or peppermint or 
finely powdered hoarbound. Pour it out in a buttered paper, 
placed in a square tin pan. 

PoppBD Corn, dipped in boiling molasses, and stuck together, 
forms an excellent candy. 

Rock Cakdy. — To make fine rock candy, clarify double refined 

.1..X c .X , L ., .. ,,,, ,. ,^ ady to crystallize, or 



measure 35° on the 



white sugar, filter it, and boil it till it is rei 
boiled to a blister. The boiling sugar must 
svrup weight, a degree more or less prevents its crystallization. 
Then take a orass kettle, of about 16 or 18 inches diameter and 
from 6 to 8 inches deep, smooth and polished on the inside. Make 
8 or 10 small holes at equal distances from each other in a circle 
around the sides of the kektle, about 2 inches from the bottom ; 
pass threads through these from one side to the other, and stop 
the holes on the outside with paste or paper to prevent the syrup 
from running out. Having thus prepared the kettle, pour in the 
syrup, till it rises about an inch above the threads ; tnen place it 
in a stove moderately heated, and leave it to crystallize, agitating 
it from time to time. The crystallization will take place in six or 
seven days. As soon as the crystals are formed, pour off the 
remaining syrup, and throw in a little water to wpsh the crystals 
that are left at the bottom of the vessel. So soon as the mass is 
thoroughly drained set it in a very hot stove, leave it for two days, 
when it is fit for use. Straw-coloured xock candy is made by 
substituting brown for loaf suear. The syrup must be boiled over 
a very hot fire in order to render the candy perfectly white. The 
Bide3 of the kettle should be sponged repeatedly during the boiliog 
process, to prevent the sugar from adhering and burning. 

Orange Kook Candy is made by flavoring the syrup with a 
couple of teaspoonfuls of orange flower water, and coloring with 
saffron, just as the syrup is about to be taken from the fire. Rose 
Rock Candy it flavored with rose water, and colored with clarified 
carmine lake. Vanilla Rock Candy is perfumed with vanilla, and 
colored with liquid violet. The degree of coloring may be tested 
by dropping a little of the colored syrup on a sheet of white 
paper. 

Ginger Candy. — Dissolve 1 lb. double-refined sugar in ^ pint of 
spring water ; set it over a clear fire, and let it boil to a thin 
syrup. Have ready a teaspoonful or powdered ginger, mix it 
smoothly with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the syrup, then stir it gradually 
into the -whole. Boil the mixture into ekfiake, watching it care- 
fully, that it may not exceed this point; then add the freshly 
graled rind of a large lemon, and stir the sugar constantly and 
rapidly until it fall in a mass from the spoon, without sinking when 
dropped upon a plate. If boiled for a moment beyond this point, 
jt will fall intp a powder. Should this happen by mistake, add * 



88 GROOEBS AND OONFXOTIONBRS' RECEIPTS. 



m 



m\\ 



little water, and boil to the proper consistency. Dip the candy 
from the kettle, and drop it in small calces upon buttered pans, 
then set it away to cool. 

Obbam Oandt. — To 3 lbs. loaf sugar add h pt. water, and set 
it over a slow fire for half an hour ; then add a teaspoonful of 
gum arable dissolved, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil it till 
it is brittle, then take it off, and flavor with vanilla, rose, or orange. 
Rub the hands with sweet butter, and pull the candy till it is 
white ; then twist or break it, or stretch it out into thin white 
strips, and cut it off. 

J^D Vbrdun SnoARBo Almonds. — ^Dry the almonds in a stove by 
a slow fire. When dry enough to snap between the teeth, put 
them into a swinging basin and gum them by throwing over them 
a little gum arable solution, cold ; swing them constantly till dry ; 
then give them another coating of gum arable mixed with 4 oz. 
sugar, and swing them again till dry, using no fire. When they 
are thoroughly dry, set them over a moderate fire. Dissolve some 
sugar in orange or rose water, not too thin, set it over the fire 2 
or 3 minutes, strain it through a sieve, and pour it over the 
almonds in the basin. Swing them till they are thoroughly coated 
and dried ; then add another coating, composed of 2 parts of 
carmine, one part of gum, and one part of sugar, anrl proceed as 
before. Iif the almonds are not perfectly covered, give them a 
coating in which there is considerable gum ; and when thoroughly 
moistened, throw on them some sifted sugar, stir till the mixture 
is all absorbed, then add successive coatings of sugar till they are 
large enough, and put them into the stove to remain till the next 
day, when m order to whiten them, you will proceed to boil 6 or 7 
lbs. of fine clarified sugar to a blister, add 1 lb. of starch after 
taking it from the fire, stirring it constantly till a paste is formed a 
little thicker than that used for pastilles ; a fbw drops of blue lake 
may be added to produce a pearl white. Put the almonds, warm, 
into the swinging basin, add enough of the prepared sugar to coat 
them, swing the basin till they are nearly dry, then set on the Are 
to finish the drying, then take the basin off the fire, heap them up 
in the middle, so as to allow the bottom of the vessel to cool ; 
then add the coating of sugar, swing and dry them as before, and 
continue the process until 4 successive coatings of equal thickness 
have been given ; then heat them well in the basin, put them into 
' pans, and set them in the stove to remain over night. You will 
then proceed to polish them by giving them a coat of the prepared 
sugar and starch, and shake them violently until they are quite 
dry ; give theim another coating and proceed as before, and 
continue tJie process until they have received 4 successive coatings, 
when they will generally be found srfficiently polished. When 
the polishing is finished, put the almonds over a fire and stir 
gently till all are thoroughly heated, then place in a stove till the 
next day in a wicker basket lined with paper. 

Spanish Sdqaeed Almonds.— Make verdon sugared almonds about 
the size of pigeon's eggs, whiten and polish them by the previous 
directions, and paint different designs on them when completed. 

Sdpbrfinb Vanula Sugared Almonds. — Proceed in tne same 
fnanner as in the manufacture of verdun sugared almoods, make, 



?s. 



OaOOERB AND CONFEOTIONERS* RBOEI^TS. 89 



• the candy 
tered pans, 

ter, and set 
spoonful of 
Boil it till 
5, or orange, 
ly till it is 
thin white 

tt a stove by 
e teeth, put 
g over them 
itly till dry ; 
d •with 4 oz. 
When they 
issolve some 
ver the fire 2 
it over the 
ughly coated 
r 2 parts of 
A proceed as 
give them a 
n thoroughly 
[ the mixture 
r till they are 
till the next 
to boil 6 or 7 
' starch after 
te is formed a 
J of blue lake 
aonds, warm, 
sugar to coat 
set on the fire 
leap them up 
!8sel to cool ; 
BIS before, and 
ual thickness 
»ut them into 
it. You will 
the prepared 
;hey are quite 
before, and 
isive coatings, 
ished. When 
fire and stir 
stove till the 

Jmondg about 
y the previous 

completed. 

in tne same 
ImoAds, make, 






the Bolution of sugar in pure water ; crush the cBsence of vanilla 
with a little sugar, and put in the solution. 

Common Sugared Almonds.— Common almonds, 20 lbs., sugar 
8 ]b3., farina, 20 lbs., starch, 2 lbs. Heat the almonds in the swing- 
ing basin, when they boil, make them into a pulp with diluted 
starch ; give first a warm then a cold coating, cover them with 
farina, ehaking the basin violently ; then, when the almonds have 
been coated to the requisite uze, spread them out on sieves ; after a 
fortnight put them in a stove to finish drying ; whiten them, and 
finish by the process described for the fine sugared almonds. 

SuPBRFiNH Chooolatk SnoARsp Almondb. — Caraccasa cacao- 
nuts, shelled and roasted, 20 lbs., Martinique sugar, 16 lbs., vanilla 
4 drs., starchy 10 oz. The same method is required as for the 
superfine vanilla sugar plums, but care must be taken in adding 
the coatings of gum, to touch the cacao nuts lightly, as they are 
very easily bro^n. 

SupBRFiira SuoARBD FiLBBRTS. — FUberts, 60 lbs., sugar, 4 lbs., 
starch, 4 oz. Employ the same process as for sugared almonds 
and flavor to taste. Rose water is generally preferred on account 
of its color and fragrance. 

Coriander Suoab Plums. — Coriander, 2 lbs. farina, 30 lbs. sugar. 
14 lbs. The washings of the basin are added to the coriander ana 
farina without making a paste, and the method is followed that has 
been prescribed for the common sugared almonds ; 8 lbs. of sugar 
are used to whiten thein, and 6 to polish them ; color after being 
polished with carmine, Prussian blue, and saffron. 

Coriander in Bottles. — Coriander, 10 lbs., farina, 10 lbs., sugar 
for the whitening, 3 lbs., starch, 1 lb. These are simply colored, and 
do not require brilliancy. They are made of the size of small peas, 
and are put into little bottles. In making these follow the receipt 
for common sugared almonds. 

Anise-seed Sugar Plums.- Dry 2 lbs. of green anise-seed in the 
stove ; rub it in the hands to break off the stems, winnow to rid of 
dust, then put it into a swingirg basin, and coat it with sugar 
boiled to a thread, so as to render the candies hard and brittle. 
When coated sufficiently, whiten and polish them, like the verdun 
sugared almonds. They vary in size being generally as large as 
a pea. 

Mint Sugar Plums. — Dry some peppermint seed in a stove and 
coat it in the same manner as anise-seed (it must not, however, be 
whiter than rape seed), whiten and finish like anise-seed. The 
first coating is sometimes composed of equal parts of peppermint 
and sugar. 

Common Twist Candy. — Clarify 3 lbs. of common brown sugar, 
and boil it till it is brittle, take it from the fire, nour it in buttered 
pans ; rub the hands with a little butter, ana as soon as it is 
cooled, pull it as you would molasses candy until it is perfectly 
white ; then twist and braid it, and cut it into sticke. 

Caramel is made by boiling clarified sugar till it is very brittle, 
then pouring it on an oiled slab or sheet of tin, and^ as soon as it 
is cool enough to receive an impression with the finger, stamping 
it in small squares, about an inch in size^ with a caramel mould ; 
then turning over the mass, wiping the Ijottom to remove any oil 



do OROCEEd AND CONl^JECflONKRS^ tUHOEt^Tl. 



that may have adhered from the slab, and putting it in a dry plaM 
to harden. If you have no caramel mould, you may score it on 
the slab with a common case knife, after which they are glazed 
with another coating of sugar. Keep them tightly closed from the 
air after they are made. 

Lbmom Gasambl is made by grating the yellow rind of a lemon 
with a lump of su^ar ;add to tbis a nw drops of lemon juice with 
water enough to dissolve the sugar completely, and stir the whole 
into the boiled syrup a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. 
Orange and Lime caramels are prepared in the same manner from 
these i^sjMCtive fruits. Cofee earatnel, coffee, 2 oz., sugar, 1 lb. Make 
an infusion of the coflbe, using as little water as possible ; strain it 
through a cloth, and stir it gradually into the boiled syrup a few 
minutes before taking it from the fire. Chocolate caramel^ choco- 
late, 4 oz., suguf*, 1 lb. Dissolve the chocolate in as little water as 
possible, and add it to the boiled sugar, as in the coffee caramels. 
vanilla and Orange cream carameli are made by using the respec- 
tive essences of these fruits. 

CocoA-NuT Candy. — Pare and cut cocoa-nut into slips, or grate 
on a coarse grater the white meat of cocoa-nuts until you hav^ 
\ a pound ; dissolve \ lb. of loaf sugar in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
water ; put it over the fire, and, as soon as it boils, stir in the 
cacoa-nut.'; Continue to stir it until it is boiled to a flake, then 
pour it on a buttered pan or marble slab, and cut it in whatever 
form you wish, when it is nearly cold. Lemon or other flavors 
mav be added. 

Candy Drops or Pastilles. — Pound and sift double-refined 
sugar, first through a rather coarse, then through a fine sieve. Put 
the sugar into an earthen vessel, and dilute it with the flavoring 
extract, mixed with a little water. If too liquid, the syrup will be 
too thin, and the drops will run together ; while, if too thick, the 
syrup will be too compact, and cannot be poured out easily. When 
the sugar is mixed into a rather stiff paste, put it into a small 
saucepan with a spout, and set it over the fire. As soon as it 
begins to bubble up the sides of the saucepan, stir it once in the 
middle, take it from the fire, and drop it in small lumps, of the size 
and shape required, upon sneets of tin, to stand for 2 hours, then 
put them in the stove to finish drying. As soon as they are per- 
fectly hr.rd and brill iant, take them from the fire, otherwise they will 
lose their aroma. Color the syrup just before taking it from the fire. 

Oranob, Jasmine, and Clove Drops are made by mixing the above 
paste with these respective extracts : 

For Salad Drops. — Water distilled from lettuce is used. 

Saffron Drops.— Make an infusion of saffron, strain it, let it 
cool, use it to mix the paste, and proceed as before. 

H3LI0TR0PB Drops. — Proceed in the same manner, flavoring 
the paste with a few drops oil of neroli, or oil of orange, jasmine, 
and tube-rose, and color violet. 

Pink Drops. — Flavor the paste with tincture of red pinks, and 
color with carmine lake. 

Cinnamon Drops. — Mix 5 drs. powdered cinnamon and 8 oz. of 
sugar with mucilage enough to make it into a paste, and proceed 
as above. i 



open 



into 



OROOEtta AND confectioners' RECEIPTS. 91 



dry plate 
;ore it on 
ire glazed 
1 from the 

)f a lemon 
juice with 
the whole 
tm the fire, 
inner from 
1 lb. Make 
) ; strain it 
^rup a few 
nelf choco- 
e water as 
! caramels, 
the respec- 

)S, or grate 
lyou nav^ 
)Oonfuls of 
Btibr in the 
flake, then 
n whatever 
;her flavors 

ible-refined 

sieve. Put 

le flavoring 

run will be 

thick, the 
_ily. When 

;o a small 
soon as it 
once in the 

of the size 
hours, then 
ley are per- 
se they will 
•om the fire. 

5 the above 

ed. 

n it, let It 

, flavoring 
re, jasmine, 

pinks, and 

md 8 oz. of 
,nd proceed 



MabeihmaliiOW and LiOobio drops are made the same way. 

Kofli Dhops. — Mix the paste with rose water, and color with 
carmine lake. Proceed as above. 

VioLKT Drops.— Flavor the.paste with tincture of Florence iris, 
and color wi^ blue and carmine lakes. A fow drops of tartaric 
acid may be added to sustain the blue. 

Lbmon AMD Oramqb Drops.— Rasp off the yellow rind of an 
orange or lemon ; mix the raspings with double-refined sugar ; 
add 5 grs. of tartaric acid to every pound of sugar, color with 
yellow lake or saflfron, and proceed as before. If too much tartaric 
acid is used, the candies wul adhere to the sheets of tin. 

OoiTBi DROf-s.— Substitute a strong, filtered infusion of coffee 
for water, in mixing tbe paste. 

Ohooolatb Drops.— For ^very pound of sugar, take 5 pts. good 
chocolate, pulverize it, and mix it into a paste, as already directed, 
taking care not to boil the paste too long, lest it granulate, and 
become unfit for use. 

Vanilla Drops. — Mix the paste with extract of vanilla, or finely- 

S round vanilla bean : to which add 2 oz. 3 grs. of tartaric acid, 
issolved in water, to sustain the blue, without which it would 
disappear. 

Imitation CuRBAyT Drops. — Mix the paste with water^ adding a 
little essence of raspberry and of violet, or Florence iris, wiu a 
little tartaric acid dissolved in water ; color with carmine, and ' 
proceed as above. 

Pbppbbiont Drops.- Dissolvefinely-powdered sugar with a little 
stxong peppermint-water in a saucepan with a spout. As soon as 
it is thoroughly dissolved, add an equal quantity of coarse-ffrained 
sugar with a few drops more of peppermint, stir the whole for a 
few moments, then drop the mixture on paper, and dry it in the 
open air. In the same way are made lemoU;, rose, vanilla, and 
other drops. Citric and tartaric acid may be used to increase the 
acidity of lemon drops. 

ExTBMPOBANSons Pabtillbs. — Make the paste as usual, without 
flavoring the water, drop the pastilles upon paper, leiave them for 
two hours, then take them off and put them into the stove to dry. 
When wanted for use, put the quantity required into a large-mouthed 
jar, and flavor as desired. For instance, to make 2 lbs. of pepper^ 
mint drops, take 6 pts. of sulphuric ether in which are diluted a 
few drops of essence of peppermint, and pour it over the candies, 
then cover the jar, and shake it until they are thoroughly moistened ; 
then place them on a sieve, and set them in the stove for 6 minutes, 
evaporate the ether. In this manner rose, orange, lemon, jonquil, 
tube-rose, mi^onette, clove, cinnamon, or any other drops may be 
made, dissolving their essential oils in sulphuric ethec 

GiNOBR Gandt Tablets: — Take 1 lb. loaf sucar, a few drops of 
acetic acid or the juice of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of 
essence of Jamaica ginger. Boil the sugar with just water enough 
to dissolve it to the ball degree, then add the acid and the essence, 
and rub the sugar with the l)ack part of the bowl of a silver spoon 
up against tbe sides of the sugar-boiler to whiten or grain it sufS- 
ciently to give to the whole an opalized appearance ; then pour it 
into y ^ry small-sized moulds, measuring balf an inch or an inch 



m 



OROOBBS AND CONfEOTIONERB' REOBIPTS. 






oblong square, or else iato a tin pan, the bottom part of which is 
marked out in small tablets, so that the candy mar be easilr 
broken into squares when dry. Smear the moulds slightly with 
oil of almonds. When the sugar is poured into the mouldsi place 
in the screen for half an hour or more, to dry them hard. 

Orange Flower Candy Tablb7s.— Ingredients : 1 lb. loaf sugar, 
a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. Proceed as directed in the preceding. No color. 

Vanilla Camdt Tablets.— Ingredients : 1 lb. of loaf sugar, a few 
drops of essence of vanilla sugar, and a few drops of acetic acid. 
Proceed as for ornaments in grained sugar. 

Peppermint Candt Tablets.— Ingredients: 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 
a few drops of essence of peppermint, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. Proceed as above. No color. 

Liqueur Candt Tablets. — ^Ingredients: I lb. of loaf sugar, and 
a gill of any kind of liqueur. Boil the sugar to the crack, then 
incorporate the liqueur, and finish as in the preceding. No 
color. 

OiNNAMON Candt Tablets. — Use 1 lb. loaf sugar, and a few 
drops essence of cinnamon. Proceed as in the last This may be 
colored rose pink, the color to be added while the sugar is boil- 
ing. ' 

Olotb Oandt Tablets are prepared in the same way as the 
foregoink, essence of cloves being used instead of cinnamon. 

Rose Candy Tablets.— tJse 1 lb. of loaf sugar, a few drops of 
essence of roses, a few drops of acetic acid, and a few drops of pre- 
pared cochineal. Proceed as in the preceding. 

Fruit Candy Tablets.— >Use 1 lb. of loaf sugar, ) pint of the 
juice of any kind of fruit, either currants, cherries, strawberries, 
raspberries, Ac, extracted by pressing with aspoontnrough a clean 
hair-sieve. Boil the sugar to the crack, and then incorporate the 
fruit juice by rubbing it in with the sugar, as directed in the pre- 
ceding, and finish the candies as therein indicated. 

To rttBK Molasses from its Sharp Taste, and to render it fit 
to be used instead of Suoar. — Take 24 lbs. molasses, 24 lbs. water, 
and 6 pjounds of charcoal, coarsely pulverized : mix them in a kettle, 
and boil the whole over a slow wood fire. When the mixture has 
boiled halfan hour, pour it into a flat vessel, in order that the char- 
coal may subside to the bottom ; then pour off the liquid, and place 
it over the fire once more, that the superfluous water may evapo- 
rate, and the molasses be brought to its former consistence. 24 
lbs. of molasses will produce 24 lbs. of syrup. 

Peppermint Lozenges.- Ingredients ; 1 oz. ot picked gnm traga- 
canth soaked with 2 oz. of tepid water in a gallipot (this takes 
some 6 hours), and afterwards squeezed and wrung through 
a cloth, about 1^ lbs. of fine icing sugar, and a teaspoonful of 
essence of peppermint. Work the prepared gum with the flattened 
fist on a very clean slab until it becomes perfectly white and elas- 
tic, then gradually work in the sugar, adding the peppermint when 
the paste has become a compact, smooth, elastic substance ; a few 
drops of thick, wet, cobalt blue should also be added while work- 
ing the paste, to give it a brilliant whiteness. The paste thus pre- 
pared is to be rolled out with fine sugar dredged over the slao to 



8. 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



^3 



of which is 
be easilr 
ightly with' 
tulds, place 

i. 

loafflugftr, 
pg of acetic 

mgar, a few 
acetic acid. 

loaf sugar, 
p8 of acetic 

f sugar, and 
I crack, then 
ceding. No 

, and a few 
This mav be 
mgar is boil- 
way as the 
lamon. 
few dr«n>8 of 
drops of pre- 

i pint of the 
strawberries, 
•ough a clean 
jorporate the 
id in the pre- 

RBNDBR IT FIT 

24 lbs. water, 
im in a kettle, 
I mixture has 
ihat the char- 
uid, and place 
r may evapo- 
isistence. 24 

)d gum traga- 
ot (this takes 
•ung through 
saspoonful of 
1 the flattened 
hite and elas- 
>permintwhen 
tstance ; a few 
d while work- 
)a8te thus pre- 
er the slab to 



the thickness of two penny pieces, then if you possess a ribbed 
rolling-pin, use it to roll the paste avain in cross directions, so as 
to imprint on its whole surface a small lozenge or diamond pattern. 
Vou now use your tin cutter to stamp out the lozenges, ana as you 
do so place them on sugar powderea baking sheets to dry in the 
screen. 

QiNOBR LozBNOES. — Procccd as in tho foregoing ; use a table.* 
spoonful of essence of ginger, or 1 oz. of ground ginger to flavor, 
and a few drops of thick wet gamboge to color the paste. Hoar- 
hound Lozenges. Ingredients ; 1 oz. of gum dragon soaked in a gill 
of very strong extract of hoarhonnd, 1| lb. of tine icing sugar. 
Proceed as for the peppermint lozenges. Cinnamon Lozenges are pre- 
pared in the same manner as ginger or peppermint lozenges, with 
this difference only ; a dessert-spoonful of essence of cinnamon is 
to be used in the flavoring of them, a few drops of thick, ground, 
wet-burnt umber should be used with a pinch of carmine to give 
the paste the tinge of cinnamon color. Clove Lozenges. The same 
as peppermint lozenges, using essence of cloves for flavoring, and 
burnt umber to color the paste. Oranae Lozenges. Ingredients ; 1 
oz. prepared gum. 1} lb. sugar, 2 oz. of orange-sugar, the gum to be 
soaked in 2 oz. ot orange flower water. Proceed as for peppermint 
lozenees. Lemon Lozenges. Ingredients; 1 oz. prepared gum, 1} 
lb. oricing sugar, 2 oz. of lemon sugar, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. CoWs/oot Lozenges. Ingredients ; L oz. of gum dragon soaked 
in 2 oz. of orange flower water, \\ lb. of flne icing sugar, and \ oz of 
essence of colt's foot. Proceed as for peppermint lozenges. 
Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges. Ingredients ; 1 oz. of gum dragon 
soaked in 2 oz. of water, 2 lbs. flue icing sugar, { oz. essence of 
cayenne, and \ oz. of prepared catechu. Proceed as for peppermint 
lozenges. 

Gum Pastilles, or Jujubes.— Ingredients ; 1 lb. of picked gum 
arable, 14 oz. of the finest sugar pounded and sifted. \ gill of 
double orange flower water, and I pt. tepid water to soak the gum 
in, which is afterwards to be stramed off clean. Put the soaked 
and strained gum into a sugar boiler with the sugar, and use a 
clean spoon to stir it over a very moderate fire, while it boils and 
reduces to the small pearl degree; then add the orange flower 
water, stir all together on the fire, remove the preparation from the 
stove, skim off the froth, and use the mixture to cast the jujubes in 
levelled layers of starch powder contained in a flat box. 

Spanish Liooricb Jujubes. — Ingredients : I lb. picked gum 
arabic, 14 oz. of sugar, and 2 oz. of Spanish licorice dissolved 
in a gill of hot water, and afterwards strained clean. First 
prepare the gum and boil it with the sugar as directed in the 
preceding article, and when reduced by boiling to the small 
pearl degree, incorporate the prepared Spanish licorice with it, 
remove the scum from the surface, and finish the jujubes in the 
manner indicated above. Raspberry Jujubes. Ingredients : 1 lb, 
picked gum arabic soaked in a pint of hot water and afterwards 
stTained, 14 oz. of sugar, 1 gill of filtered raspberry juice, and 
a few drops of cochineal. Proceed as directed in the foregoing 
case, adding the raspberry and coloring last. Black Currant 
Jvjubes. Proceed in all respects as indicated for raspberrT- 



64 



OEOOEBS AND OONFIOTIONERS' REOSIPTS. 



W 



juiubef. omitting the cochineal, black currant juice being used. 
Jud Currant Ji^jubes. The same as black currant jujub«s, 
red currant juice being used and a few drops of cochineal. 
Ordinary JHJubet, Ingredients : 1 lb. gum araoic soaked in 1 
pt. of hot water and afterwards strained, 14 oz. sugar, i oz. essence 
of roses, and a few drops of prepalred cochineal. Let the mixture 
be pr<Bpared as for other jujubes, but instead of casting them in 
impressfpns made in starch-powder, when the preparation is 
ready, pour it into a verj clean smooth tinned baking sheet to the 
deptn of a quarter of an inch, and set it to dry m the screen,, 
or hot closet (moderate heat) ; when sufficiently dried, so that on 
pressing the surface it proves somewhat elastic to the touch, 
remore it (h>m the heat, and allow it to become cold ; the si^eet 
of jujube ma^ then be easily detached, and is to be cut up 
with scissors in the shape of diamonds. 

STtoi^ Appli Sugar.— Boil the sugar to caramel, flavor with 
apple juice together with tartaric or other ac d, pour it on a 
marble slab, <mw it into sticks, cut them of ev'Ual length, then 
roll them on the slab till they are perfectly cold ; when finished, 
wrap them in tissue-paper and put them in umcv envelopes. 

OcrsBANT AND Raspbdrrt Pastk Drops.— Ingicdieiits : 1 lb. 
of pulp (the currants and raspberries in equal proportions boiled, 
and afterwards rubbed through a sieve), 1 lb. of sifted sugar. 
Stir both together in a copper sugar-boiler or preserving pan 
over a brisk fire, until the paste becomes sufficiently reduced to 
show the bottom of the preserving pan as you draw the spoon 
across it j then proccjed to lay out the drops about the size of a 
florin, n3ing a spouted sugar boiler for the purpose. The drops 
should then be placed in the screen to dry, at a low heat for an 
hour or so. When the drops are dry, use a thin knife to remove 
them from tbs ^n sheet on which jou laid them out, and put them 
away between sheets of paper m closed boxes, in a dry place. 
J)anuon Ftuti Dropa. Ingredients : 1 lb. of damson thick pulp. 
1 lb. bruised su^ar. Stir the pulp and sugar on the fire until 
reduced to a thick paste, then proceed to lay out the drops 
on square sheets of polished tin ; dry them in the screen (moderate 
heat), and remove them in the manner aforesaid. These drops 
may be prepared with all kinds of plums and also with gooseberries. 
Pear Paste Drops. Use 1 lb. pear pulp (made b^ peeling the pears, 
and boiling them to a pulp with i pt. of cider or perry, ana 
Tubbing this throngh a coarse sieve), 1 lb. of bruised sugar. 
'Proceed as for damson paste. Appu Paste Drops. Use 1 l\ 
of apple pulp (made by peeling, slicing and boiling the apples with 
i pt. cider), 1 lb. of bruised sugar. Proceed as in the foregoing cases, 
adding a few drops of cochineal to half of the paste for the sake 
of variety. . Ptne Apple Paste Drops. Use 1 lb. of pine apple pulp 
(made by first peeling, and then grating the pine-apple on a dish, 
iising a clean coarse tin grater for the purpose), 1 lb. of bruised 
sugar. Proceed as in the former cases. 

VASES, Baskets, Figures, Animals, &c., in Grained Sugar. — 
The sugar being boiled to the ball degree, add a few drops of 
acetic acid, ana work the sugar with the back part of the Dowl 
of a silver tablespoon up against the side of the sugar boiler, 



bein^ used, 
mt jujub^B, 
' cochineal. 

ioiJ(e4 in 1 
\ oz. essence 
the mixture 
ing them in 
eparation ia 
sheet to the 
the screen,. 
1, BO that on 
) the touch, 
d; the sheet 
I be cut up 

, flavor with 
our it on a 
lengthy then 
hen finished, 
ilopes. 

lients:! lb. 
rtibns boiled, 
gifted sugar. 
Qserving pan 
f reducea to 
,w the spoon 
the size of a 
. The drops 
heat for an 
fe to remove 
kud put them 
a dry place, 
n thick pulp, 
he fire until 
it the drops 
en (moderate 
These drops 
gooseberries, 
ng Uie pears. 
ir perry, ana 
uised sugar. 

a. Use 1 1^. 
i apples with 
egoing cases, 

for the sake 
le apple pulp 
)le on a dish, 

b. of bruised 

riDD SUOAB. — 

few drops of 
of the bowl 
mgar boiler, 



QROOERS AND CONF£0TION£R8* RECIIPTS. 



y:^ 






retching up the ^hole m turns, so that every portion n 
an opalizea or whitish color. As soon as the sugar has b 
up to this state, which constitutes " graining," poi 
diately into the ready pMpared mould ; and wnen it 



fetching up the ^ho\e in turns, so that every portion may acquire 

. .. . been^orked 

pour it imme> 
X it has become 
perfbc'tly set firm in 'the centre, you may turn the vase, basket, 
animal, or whatever the object may be, out of its mould, and place 
it in the screen or hot closet to dry, at a very moderate heat. Af- 
terwards thev may be painted in colors to imitate nature. 

BviiiTov TArm.— To make this favorite and wholesome candy, 
take li pounds of moist sugar, 3 ounces of butter, a teacup and a 
half of water, and one lemon. Boil the sugar, butter, water, and 
half the rind ot the lemon together ; and, when done, — which will 
be known by dropping into cold water, when it should be quite 
crisp, — let it stand aside till the boiling has ceased, and then stir 
in the juice of the lemon. Butter a disn, and pour it in about a 
quartef of an inch in thickness. The fire must be quick, and the 
taifee stirred all the time. 

Cakpt Fruit.— Take one pound of the best loaf sugar; dip each 
lump iuto a bowl of water, and put the sugar into your preserving 
kettle. Boil it down, and skim il until perfectly clear, and in a 
candying state. When sufBciently boiled, have ready the fruits 
you wish to preserve. Large white grapes, oranaes separated into 
small pieces, or preserved fruits, taken out of their syrup and 
dried, are very nice. Dip the fruits into the prepared sugar while 
it is hot ; put them in a cold plaoe \ they will soon become hard. 

Jbllibs without Fruit.— To 1 pint of water put ^ oz. alum ; 
boil a minute or two ; then add 4 lbs. white sugar ; continue the 
boiling a little ; strain while hot ; i^nd, when cold, put in half a 
twenty-five cent bottle of extract of vanilla, strawberry, lemon, 
or any other flavor you desire for jelly. 

Prizk Honst.— Good common sugar, 6 lbs. ; water, 2 lbs. ; bring 
gradually to a boil, skimming when cool : add 1 lb. bees' honey and 
4 drops essence of peppermint. If you desire a better article, use 
white sugar, and ^ lb. less water, | Ib.more honey. 

Another. — Gofiee sugar, 10 lbs. ; water, 3 lbs. ; cream tartar, 2 
oz. ; strong vinegar, 2 tablespoons ; white of an egg well beaten ; 
bees' honey, 1 lb. ; Lubin's extract of honeysuckle, 10 drops. Put 
on the sugar and water in a suitable kettle on the fire ; when luke- 
warm, stir in the cream tartar and vinegar; add the egg; when 
the sugar is nearly melted put in the honey, and stir till it comes 
to a Boil ; take it ofi; let it stand a few minutes : strain, then add 
the extract of honeysuckle last ; stand over nignt, and it is ready 
for use. 

Anothbr. — Common sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 1 pt. ; let them come 
to a boil, and skim. Then add pulverized alum, i oz. ; remove 
from the fire, and stir in cream of tartar, ^ oz., and water, or 
extract of rose, 1 tablespoonful, and it is fit for use. 

To Ebbp Fruits Frbsh.— Rosin, 2 lbs.; tallow, 2 oz. ; bees'-wax, 
2 oz. Melt slowly over the fire in an iron pot, but don't boil. 
Take the fruit separately, and rub it over with pulverized chalk or 
whiting (to prevent the coating from adhering to the fruit), then 
dip it into the solution once, and hold it up a moment to set the 
•oating, then pack away carefully in barrels, boxes, or on sh^lves^ 



90 



tlAtnER WORltBttS, id., R«0EIPTS. 



in a cool place. Unequalled for preacrring apples, pears, lemons, 
oraogea, «c. 

Acio Duops.— Pound and sift into a clean pan 8 ozs. of double 
refined sugar, add slowly as much water as will render the sugar 
Bufflcientlv moist not to stick to the Btirrin£[ spoon, nlace the pan 
on a small stove or slow fire, and stir till it nearly ooils, remove 
from the fire and stir in | ok. tartaric acid. Place it on the fire for 
half a minute, then dip out small quantities from the pan, and let 
11 drops on a clean tin plate ; remove the drops in 2 



it fall In sma 
hours with a knife' 



Ready for sale in 24 hours. 



TANNERS, CURRIERS. BOOT, SHOE AND 
HARNESS MAKERS, MARBLE WORKERS, &o. 

Bbst CoLon ton Boot, Shoi, akd Hahvkss Edgb.— Alcohol, 1 
pint; tincture of iron, IJ oz. ; extract logwood, 1 oz. ; pulverized 
nutgalls, 1 cz. ; soft water, | pint ; sweet oil, i oz. ; put this last 
into the alcohol before adding the water. Nothing can exceed the 
beautiful finfth imparted to the leather by this preparation. The 
only objection is the cost. 

CintAP Color for thb Edob. — Soft water, 1 gallon ; extract log- 
wood, 1 oz. ; boll till the extract is dissolved ; remove from the fire, 
add copperas, 2 oz., bichromate of potash and gum arable, of each 
i oz. ; all to be pulverized. 

SuPBRioR Edob Blackino.— Soft water, 5 gallons : bring to a 
boil, and add 8 oz. logwood extract, pulverized ; boil .3 minutes, 
remove from the fire, and stir in 2| oz. gum arabic, 1 oz. bichro- 
mate of potash, and 80 grains prussiate ofpotash. 

For a small quantity of this, use water. 2 quarts ; extract of log- 
wood, I oz. ; gum arabic, 96 grains ; oichromate of potash, 48 
grains ; prussiate ofpotash. 8 grains. Boil the extract in the water 
2 minutes ; remove irom tne fire and stir in the others, and it is 
ready for use. 

For tanners' surface blacking, which is not required to take on a 
high polish, the gum arabic may be omitted. * 

Sizing for Boots and Shoes in Trkbino Out.— Water, 1 quart ; dis- 
solve in it, by heat, isinglass, 1 oz. ; adding more water to replace 
glass, by evaporation ; when dissolved, add starch, 6 oz. ; extract of 
fogwood, bees'- wax, and tallow, of each, 2 oz. Rub the starch up first 
by pouring on sufficient boiling water for that purpose. It makes 
boots and shoes soft and pliable, and gives a splendid appearance 
to old stock on the shelves. 

Black Varnish for thb Edge. — Take 98 per cent, alcohol, 1 pint ; 
shellac, 3 oz. ; rosin, 2 oz. ; pine turpentine, 1 oz. ; lampblack, i 
oz. ; mix ; and when the gums are all cut, it is ready for use. Tnis 
preparation makes a most splendid appearance when applied] to 
boot, shoe, or harness edge, and is equally applicable to cloth or 
wood, where a gloss is required after being painted. 



LEATHER W0BKEB8, AO., BEOEIPTM. 



97 



But RARvifiB Varnish Extant.— Alcohol, 1 gallon; whiU 
turpentine, l^ lbs. ; sum abcUac, l\ lbs. ; Venice turi>entine, 1 gfU 
Let them stand by the stove till the Rums are dissolved, then add 
sweet oil, 1 gill ; and color if you wish it with lampblack, 2 oi. 
This will not crack like the old varnisb. 

Harnisb oil.— Neat' 8-foot oil, 1 gal., lampblack, 4 oz. Mix well. 

Brilliant Frknoh Varnish for Lbathkr.— Spirit of wine, ) pint ; 
Yinecrar, S pints : gum Senegal in powder, i lb. ; loaf sugar, 6 oz. : 
powaered galls, 2 oz. ; green copperas, 4 oz. Dissolve the gum ana 
sugar in the water ; strain, and put on a slow f^re, but don't boil ; 
now put in the galls, copperas, and the alcohol ; stir well for five 
minutes ; set off ; and when nearly cool, strain'tbiough flannel, and 
bottle for use. It is applied with a pencil brush. Most superior. 

Liquid Japan vor Lbathbr. — Molasses, 8 lbs. ; lampblacx. 1 lb. ; 
sweet oil, 1 lb. ; gum arable, 1 lb. ; isinglass, 1 lb. Mix well in 
32 lbs. water : apply heat ; when cool, add 1 quart alcohol ; an ox's 
gall will improve it. 

Waterproof OII-Blacking, Gamphene, 1 ^int; add all the 
India-rubber it will dissolve ; currier's oil, 1 ;.Int ; tallow, 7 lbs. ; 
lampblack, 2 oz. Mix thoroughly by heat. 

SHoaifAKERs' Hebl Balls.— Bees'-wax, 8 oz. ; tallow, 1 oz. ; melt, 
and add powdered gum arable, 1 oz., and lampblack to color. 

Gbmbnt for Lbathbr or Rubbbr Solbs and Lbathbr Belting. — 
Outta percba. 1 lb. ; India-rubber, 4 oz. ; pitch, 2 oz. ; shellac, 1 oz. ; 
oil, 2 oz. ; melt, and use hot. 

Oil Paste Blacking.— Ivory black, 4 lbs. ; molasses, 3 lbs. ; sweet 
oil, I lb. ; oil vitriol, 3 lbs. ; mix, and put in tins. 

To Dyb Leather BlItb, Red, or Purplb.— For red^ steep it in 
alum water, then put it in a warm decoction of Brazil wood ; blue, 
steep it in an indigo vat ; purple, steep the skins in alum water, 
then put it in a warm decoction of logwood. 

Gold Varnish.— Turmeric, 1 dram ; gamboge, I dram ; turpen- 
tine, 2 pints ; shellac, 5 oz. ; sandaracb, 5 oz. ; dragon's blood, 8 
drams; thin mastic varnish, 8 oz. ; di£;est with occasional agitation 
for fourteen days ; then set aside to fine, and pour off the clear. 

Grain Black for Harness Lbathbr. — First stain in tallow ; then 
take spirits tui-pentine^ 1 pint ; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; soda, 1 oz. ; 

fum snellac, i oz. ; thick paste, reduced thin, 2 quarts. Mix well, 
his will finish 12 sides. 

Stains for Wood and Leather. — Rbd. — ^Brazil wood, 11 parts : 
alum, 4 parts ; water, 85 parts. Boil. 

Blub.— Logwood, 7 parts ; blue vitriol, 1 part ; water, 22 parts. 
Boil. 

Black. — Logwood, 9 parts ; sulphate of iron, 1 part ; water, 25 
parts. Boil. 

Grben. — Verdigris. 1 part ; vinegar, 3 parts. Dissolve. ' 

Yellow.- French berries, 7 parts ; water, 10 parts ; alum, 1 part. 
Boil. 

Purple.— Logwood, 11 parts ; alum, 3 parts ; water, 29 parts. 
Boil. 

Dber Skins. — Tanning and Buffing for Glov- — For each skin, 
take a bucket of water, and put into it one qt. of lime ; let the skin 
pr skins lie infroxa 3 to 4 days ; then rinse iu clean >yater, haii*, aaU 



98 



LEAtHER WORKERS, &C., RECEiPTS. 



grain ; then soak ihem in cold water to get oiit the glue ; now scour 
or pound in good soapsuds for half an hour; aner which take 
white vitriol, alum, and salt, 1 tablespoon i>f each to a skin; these 
will be dissolved in sufficient water to cover the skin, and remain in 
it fc/t 24 hours ; wring out as drv as convenient, and spread on with 
a brush } pt. of currier's oil, and hane in the sun about 2 da} s ; after 
which you will scour out the oil with soap>siids, and hang out again 
until perfectly drv; then pull uad work then until they are soft; 
and ii a re.^sonable time does not make them i^oft, scour out in suds 
again as befsre, until complete. The oil may be saved by pouring 
or taking it from the top of the suds, if left standing a short time. 
The buff color is given by spreading yellow ochr« evenly over the 
surface of the skin, when finished, rubbipg it in well with a brush. 

TanniNO with Acid. — After having removed the hair, scouring, 
soaking, and pounding in the sUds, (be, as in the last recipe, in 
place of the wnite vitriol, alum, and salt, as there mentioned, take 
oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid), and water, equal pans of each, and 
thoroughly wet the flesh-side cf the skin with it, by means of j. 
sponge or doth upon a stick j then folding up the skin, letting it 
lie for 20 minutes only, having ready a solution of sal-soda and 
water, say 1 lb. to a bucket of water, and soak the skin or skins in 
that for two hours, when you will wash in clean water, and apply'a 
little dry salt, letting ^ie m v le salt over night, or that length of 
time ; then remove the flesh with a blunt knife, or, if doing busi- 
ness on a large scale, by means of the regular beam a^nd flesh-knife; 
when dry, or nearly so, soften by pulling and rubbing with the 
hands, and also with a piece of pumice-stone. Thi^ of course, iai 
the quickest w.ty of tanning, and by only wetting the skins with 
the acid, and soaking out in 20 minutes, they are not rotted. 

ANothbr ' Mhthod,— Oil of vitriol, I oz. ; salt, 1 teacup ; milk 

sufficient to handsomely cover the skin, not exr'eedingS qts. ; warm 

the milk, then ?» dd the salt and vitricl ; stir the skin in the liquid 

40 minutesj keeping it warm ; then dry. and work it as directed in 

the above 

Liquid Red. — Channellers will find that no better or richer color 
for their purposes can be got than the red ink described under the 
Grocers' Department, diluted to the required shade. For color for 
the bottoms of shoes use tincture of red Sanders. 

Bridle STAiN.—Skimir.eci'. milk, 1 pt. ; spirits of salts, i oz. ; spts. 
of red lavender, i oz. ; gum arable, 1 oz. ; and the juice of 2 lemontt ; 
mix well together, and cork for use ; apply with a sponge ; when 
dry, polish with a brush or apiece of flannel. If wished paler, put 
in less red lavender. 

New Tanning Composition. — For harness leather, 4 lbs. catechu, 
3 pts. common lye, 3 oz. of alum. For wax lecUher, (split leather) 
3 lbs. catechu, 3 pts. common lye, 3 oz. alum. For cdl/skiTis, 2 lbs. 
catechu, 1 pt. Iyej2 oz. alum, ^or sheep-skins, 1 lb. catechu, 1 pt. 
lye, 1 oz. alum. The catechu by itself will make the leather hard 
and brittle, the lye will soften it ; the alum, being only used for color- 
irg, can be dispensed with, or other matter used in its place. The 
mixture is in every case boiled, and the leather is then immersed 
in it long enough to be thoroughly tanned, for which purpose tht 
harness leather should be steeped from 18 to 20 days, wax leatiey 



LEATHER WORKERS, ftO,, REOEIPTSi 



99 



from 12 to 14 dajs, calf-akin from 7 to 9 days, and sheep-skin from 
2 to 4 days. 

Process of Tanninq Calf, Kip, and Harniss Lbathto in r&ou 6 
TO 30 DAra.— For a 12-lb. calfskin, take 3 lbs. of tf a japonica, 
common salt, 2 lbs. : alum, 1 lb. ; put them into a com ^ kettle with 
BuflScient water to dissdlve the whole by boiling. The skin will be 
limed, hairtd, and treated every way as for the old process, when 
it will be put into a vessel with sufficient water to cover it, at which 
time vou will put in 1 pint of the composition, stirring it well, add- 
ing tne same amount each night and morning for three days, 
when you will add the whole, haiadling 2 or 3 times daily all the 
time, tanning ; you can continue to use the tannin^p liquid by add- 
ing half the quantity each time, by keeping these proportions for 
any amount. If you desire to give a bark color to the leather, you 
will put in 1 lb. of Sicily sumac ; kip skins will require about 20 
days, light house hides for harness 30 days, cidf-skins from 6 to 10 
days at most. 

To Tan Raw Hidb.— When taken from the animal, spread it flesh 
side up ; then put 2 parts of salt, 2 parts of saltpetre and alum com- 
bined, make it fine, sprinkle it evenly over the surface, roll it up Jet 
it alone a few days till dissolved ; then take off what fl(>sh remains, 
and nail the skin to the side of a barn in the suri; strotch tight, to 
make it soft like harness leather, put neat'^-foot oil o.i it, fasten it 
up in the sun again ; then rub out all the.oil you can with a wedge- 
shaped stick, and it is tanned with the hair on. 

French Finish for Leather. — Take a common wooden pailful of 
scraps (the legs and pates of calf-skins are best), and put a handful 
each of salt and alum upon them, and let them stand three days : 
then boil them until they get a thick paste ; in using, you will 
warm it, and in the first application put a little tallow with it, and 
for a second time a little soft soap, and use it in the regular way 
of finishing, and your leather will be soft and pliable, like Frencli 
leather. 

French PatDnt Leather. — ^Work into the skin with appropriate 
tools 3 or 4 successive coatings of drying varnish, made by boiling 
linseed oil with white lead and litharge, in the proportion of one 
pound of each of the latter to one gallon of the former, and adding 
a portion of chalk or ochre, each coating being thoroughly dried 
before the application of the rest. Ivory black is then substituted 
for the chalk or ochre, the varnish thinned with spirits ©f turpen- 
tine, and five additional applications made in the same manner as 
before, except that it is put on thin and not worked in. The leath- 
er is rubbed down with pumice-stone, in powder, and then placed 
in a room at 90 degrees, out of the way of dust. The last varnish 
is prepared by boiling ^ lb. of asphaltum with 10 lbs. of the drying 
oil U8«d in the first stage of the process, and then stirring in 5 lbs. 
copal varnish and 10 Ids. of turpentine. It must have 1 month's 
age before using it. 

Cheap Tanninq without Bark or Mineral Astringents.— The 
astringent liquor is composed of water, 17 gals. ; Aleppo galls. ^ 
lb. ; Bengal catechu, IJ oz. and 5 lbs. of tormentil, or septfoil 
root. Powder the ingredients, and boil in the water 1 hour ; 
>yUen cool, put in th** skins (which must bo prepared by baing 



100 



LEATHER "WORKERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



plunged into a preparation of bran and water for 2 days pre- 
viously) ; handle them frequently during the first 3 days, let them 
alone the next 3 days, then handle three or four times in one day ; 
let them lie undisturbed for 25 days more, when the process will 
be complete. 

Canadian Pbocess. — The Canadians make four liquors in using 
thejaponica. 

Tne FIRST liquor is made by dissolving, for 20 sides of upper, 
15 lbs. of terra japonica in sufficient water to cover the upper, 
being tanned. The second liquor contains the same amount uf 
japonica, and 8 lbs. of saltpetre also. The third contains 20 lbs. 
of japonica, and 4^ lbs. of alum- The fourth liquor contai is 
only 15 lbs. of japonica, and 1* lbs. of sulphuric acid ; and the 
leather remains 4 days in each liquor for upper ; and for sole the 
quantities and time are both doubled. They count 50 calf-skins in 
place of 20 sides of upper, but let them lie in each liquor only 3 days. 

Fifty Dollar Recipe for Tanning For and other Skins.— 
Remove the legs and useless parts, soak the skin soft, and then 
remove the fleshy substances, and soak it in warm water 1 hour. 
Now take for each skin borax, baltpetre, and Glauber-salt, of each 
A oz., and dissolve or wet witn soft water sufficient to allow it to 
Be spread on the flesh side of the skin. Put it on with a brush 
thickest in the centre or thickest part of the skm, and double the 
skin together, flesh side in ; keeping it in a cool place for 24 hours, 
not allowing it to freeze. Then wash the skm clean, and take 
Hal-soda, 1 oz., borax, ^ oz. ; refined soap, 2 oz. ; melt them slowly 
together, being careful not to allow them to boil, and apply the 
mixture to the flesh side as at first. Boil up again, and keep in a 
warm place for 24 hours ; then wash the skin clean again, as 
above, and have saleratus, 2 oz., dissolved in hot ram water suffi- 
cient to well saturate the skin ; take alum, 4 oz. ; salt, 8 oz. ; 
and dissolve also in hot rain water ; when sufficiently cool to allow 
the handling of it without scalding, put in the skin for 12 hours ; 
then wring out the water and bang up for 12 hours more to dry. 
Repeat this last soaking and drying 2 or 3 times, according to the 
desired softness of the skin when finished. Lastly finish, by 
pulling and working, and finally by rubbing with a piece of 
pumice-stone and fine sand-paper. This works like a charm on 
sheep-skins, fur skins, dog, wolf, bear-skins, &c. 

French Polish or Dressing for Leather. — Mix 2 pts. best 
vinegar with I pt. soft water ; stir into it ^ lb. glue, broken up, 
^ lb. logwood-chips, i oz. of finely powdered ludigo, \ oz. of the 
best soft soap, ^ oz. of isinglass ; put the mixture over the fire, and 
let it boil ten mmutes or more ; th«n strain, bottle, and cork. 
When cold, it is fit for use Apply with a sponge. 

CuRRiBRs' Size. — Take of sizing, 1 qt. ; soft soap, 1 gill ; stuflf- 
ing, 1 gill; sweet milk, ^ pt. ; boil the sizing v water to a proper 
consistence, strain, and add the other ingreuicnts ; and wnen 
thoroughly mixed, it is ready for use. 

Curriers' Paste. — First Joat. — Take of water, 2 qts. ; flour, ^ 



pint ; Castile soap, 1 oz. ; make into paste. 



Second Coat. — Take 
of first paste, ^ pt.'; gum tragacanth, Igul ; water, 1 pt. ; mix a^ 
together, This will finish 18 sides of upper. 



LEATHER WORKERS, &€., RECEIPTS. 



101 



iquors in using 



an, and take 



Cdrkers' Skirtwo.— Tbis^is for fihiating skirting and the flesh 
of harness leather^ in imitation of oak tanning. Take of chrome 
yellow, J lb. ; yellow ochre, 1 lb. ; cre^m of taxtar, 1 oz. ; soda, * 
oz^paste, 5 ots. ; mix well. This will finish twelve sides. 

SKIKTIK9.— For the gr^n to imitisite oak tan. Take of chrome 
yellow, i lb.; yellOTi%;jrlire, j lb. ; Cream of tarW, 1 oz. : soda, 1 
oz. : pastu, 2 qts. j b^i.its of turpeiitine, 1 pt. ; mix well. This 
will finish twelve sides. 

Pyks Foa LkatbI!R.—^;im.— For each skin, take 1 oz. of indij^, 
put it into boiling water, flind let it stand One night ; then warm 
It a little, and witn a brush sme^^ the skin twice over, and finish 
the same as the red. if«d.—^ After the skin has been properly 
prepared with sheep, pigs' dung, &c., then take strong alum water, 
and sponge over you^f skin ; when dry, boil a sti- ong gall liqitor Cit 
cannot be too strong) ,' then boil a strong Rrazir wood liquor (the 
strongei* the bette!r) ; take a sponge, dip it into your liquor, and 
sponge it over your skin ; repeat this till it comes to a full rea. To 
finish your skin, take the white of eggs, and a little gum dragon, 
inix the two together in half a gill of watfer, sponge over your skin, 
and, when drv, polish off. Yellow.-^l. Infuse. quercitron bark in 
vinegar, in wmcn put a littl6 aluiQ, and brusn over vour skibs with 
the infu^on ; finish the same as the red. 2. idkb 1 pt of 
whisky ] 4 oz. turmeric ; mix them well together : when settled, 
sponge your sk^ns oveir, and finish as above. Black.— 'Put your 
fikin on a clean board, sponge it over with gall and sumaoh liquors, 
strong ; then take a strong logWood liquor, sponge it over three 
or four times ; then take a little copperas, mix itTn the logwood 
liquor ; sponge it over your skin, and finish it same as the red. 
J^urpte.— First sponge with the alum liquor strong, then with log- 
wood liquor strong; or mix them both, and boil them, and sponge 
with the liquor ; finish the same as the red. The pleasing hues of 
yellow, brown, or tan color, are readily imparted to leather by the 
following simple process : steeip saffron in boiling water for a 
number of hours, wet a sponge or soft brush in tc'^ liquor, and 
-\vith it smear the leather. The quantity of saffit^n, as well as of 
water, will of course depend on how much dye raa> be wanted, 
and tneir relative proportions to the depth of color required. 

To Marblb Books or Papkr. — Marbling of books or paper is 
performed thus : Dissolve 4 ounces of gum arable in 2 quarts of fair 
water ; then provide severjil colors mixed with water in pots or 
shells, and with pencils peculiar to each color ; sprinkle them by 
way of intermixture upon the gum water, which must be put into 
a trough, or some broad vessw ; then, with a stick, curl ni6m, or 
draw them out in streaks to as much variety as may be done. 
Having done this, hold your book or books close together, and only 
dip the edges in, on the top of the water and colors, very lightly; 
which done, take them off, and the plain impression of thfr colors 
in mixture will be upon the leaves ; doing as well the ends' as the 
front of the books in like manner, and afterwards glazing the 
colors. 

' Bookbinders' Varnish.— Shellac, 8 parts ; gum benzoine, 3 
parts ; gtira mastic, 2 parts • b'-ise, and digest in alcohol, 48 parts ; 
oil of lavender, ^ part, Or, digest shellac, 4 parts ; gum mastic, 



102 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



2 parts ; gum dammer and white turpentine, of each, 1 part ; with 
alCDhol Cd5 per cent.), 28 parts. 

Red Spbinklb fob Bookbindbbs' Usk. — Brazil wood (giround), 4 
parts; aluooL 1 part; vinegar, 4 parts j water, 4 parts. Boll until 
reduced to 7 parts, then add a quantity of loaf sugar and gum ; 
bottle for use. JSlue.— Strong sulphuric acid^ 8 oz. ; Spanish in- 
digo, powdered, 2 oz. ; mix in a bottle that will hold a quart, and 
{>lace it in a warm bath to promote solution. For use, dilute a 
ittle to the required color in a tea-cup. Blacki — No better black 
can be procured than that made by the receipt for edge black- 
ing, in tnis work, which see. Orange co^or.— Ground Brazil wood, 
16 parts ; annotto, 4 parts ; alum, sugar, and gum arable, r^ch 1 
part; water, 70 parts, boil, strain, and bottle. JPurple. — Logwood 
chips, 4 parts ; powdered alum, 1 part; soft water, 24 parts ; boil 
until reduced to 16 parts, and bottle for use. Green. — French 
berries, 1 part ; soft water, 8 parts. Boil, and add a little pow- 
dered alum ; then bring it to the required shade of green, by add- 
ing liquid blue. Brown. — Logwood chips, 1 part ; annotto, 1 part ; 
boil in water, 6 parts p if too ught, add a piece of copperas the size 
'of a pea. 

Tbbb-Mabble. — A marble in the form of trees may be done by 
bending the boards a little on the cenu e, using the same method 
as the common marble, having the covers previouslyprepared. The 
end of a candle may be rubbed on different parts of the board to 
form knots. Rice-Marble. — Color the cover with spirits of wine and 
turmeric, then place on rice in a regular manndi, throw on a very 
fine sprinkle of copperas water till the cover is nearly black, and 
let it remain till dry. The cover may be spotted with the red liquid 
or potash- water, very freely, before the rice is thrown 'off the 
boards. Spotted Marble for Books, etc. — After the fore-edge of the 
book is cut, let it remain in the press, and throw on linseeds in a 
regular manner, sprinkle the edge r xth any dark color till the 
paper is covered, them shake off the seeds. Various colors maybe 
used ; the edge may be colored with yellow c red before throwing 
on the seeds, and sprinkling with blue. The seeds will make a^nei. 
fancy edge when placed very thick on different parts, with a few 
slightly thrown on the spaces between. Japan Coloring for Leathery 
Book-covers, etc. — After the book is covered and dry, color the 
coyer with potash-water mixed with a little paste : give 2 good 
coats of Brazil wash, and glaze it ; put the book between the hands, 
allowing the boards to slope a little ; dash on copperas-water, then 
with a sponge full of red liquid press out on the back and on diffe- 
rent parts large drops, which will run down each board and make 
a fiae shaded red ; when the cover is dry, wash it over 2 or three 
times with Brazil wash to give it a brighter color. (See the various 
dyes for leather.) 

Gold Spbinklb fob Books.— Put in a marble mortar ^ oz. pure 
honey and one book of gold leaf, rub them well together until they 
are very fine, add ^ pint clear water, and mix well together when 
the water clears, pour it off, and put in more till the honey is all 
extracted, and nothing remains but the gold ; mix one grain of 
corrosite sublimate in a teaspoonful of spirits of wine, and when 
dissolved, put the same, together with a little gum water, to the 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



103 



gold, »ad bottle for use. The edges of the book may be sprinkled 
or colored verv dark, with green, blue, or purple, and lastly 
with the gold liquid in small or large spots, very regular, 
shaking the bottle before using. Bornisn the edges when dry, 
and cover them with paper to prevent the dust tailing thereon. 
This sprinkle will hd^re a most beautiful appearance on extra 
work. , 

To Gild the Edobb of Books. — Armenian bole, 4 parts, snear can- 
dy, 1 part, wliite of egg to mix. Apply this composition to tne edge 
of the leaves, previously firmly screwed in the cutting-press ; when 
nearly dry, smooth the surface with the burnisher ; then take a 
damp sponge and pass over it, and with a piece of cotton-wool, take 
the leaf from the cushion and apply it to the work: when quite 
dry, burnish, observing to place a piece of silver or India paper be- 
tween the gold and the agate. 

Chimbsk Edgb fob Books.— Color the edge with light liquid blue 
and dry ; then take a sponge charged with vermilion, and dab on 
spots according to fancy ; next throw on rice, and finish the edge 
with dark liquid blue. 

Dyes for Feathers.— (?reen Dye. — Take of verdigris and verdi- 
ter, of each, 1 oz. ; gum-water, 1 pt. ; mix them well, and dip the 
bristles, fur, or feathers, they having been first soaked in hot water, 
into the said mixture. Blue. — Take of Indigo and risse, each, 
1 oz. ; and a piece of alum the size of a hazel nut ; put them into 
gum-water, and dip the materials into it hot : hang them up to dry, 
and clap them well that they may open; und, by changing the co- 
lors, the aforesaid materials may be in this manner dyed of any. 
color. For purple, use lake and indigo ; for carnation, vermilion 
and smalt. Heel. — Take an ounce of Brazil wood in powder ] ^ oz. 
of alum ; vermilion, i oz. ; and a pint of vinegar ; boil them u{) to 
a moderate thickness, and dip the fur or feathers, they having 
been first soaked in hot water, into the said mixture. For black, 
use the same as for cloth. (See " Receipts fpr Dyeing T) Yellow. — 
Mordant with acetate of alumina, and dip in a bath of turmeric or 
weld. Crimson. — Dip in acetate of alumina mordant, then in a 
boiling hot decoction of Brazil wood, and, last of all, pass through 
a bath of cudbear. 

To MAKE Paper into Pabohment.— To produce this transforma- 
tion, take unsized paper and plunge it into a solution of two parts 
of concentrated sulphuric acid combined with 1 part water ; with- 
draw it immediately, and wash it in clean water, and the change 
is complete. It is now fit for writing ; for the acid supplies the 
want of size, and it becomes so strong that a strip 2 or 3 inches 
wide will bear from 60 to 80 lbs. weight, while a like strip of parch- 
ment will bear only about 26 lbs. 

Horn in Imitation of ToRToiSR-SHBLL.-r-Pirst steam and then 
press the horn into proper shapes, and afterwards lay the following 
mixture on with a small brush, in imitation of the mottle of tor- 
toise-shell : Take equal parts of quick lime and litharge, and mix 
mth strong soap-lees ; let this remain until it is thoroughly dry ; 
brush oflF, and repeat two or three times if necessary. Such parts 
as are required to be of a reddinh brown should be covered with « 
mixture of whiting and the stain. 



!i ^ 



H 






104 



LEATHER WORKEBS^ &0., RECEIPTS. 



Dt2s FOR IvQBYj floBN, AND Bom.-'Black.—l. Lay the articles 
for seyeral hours in a strong solution of nitrate of silver, and ex- 

Sose to the hffht. 2. Boil the article for some time m a strained 
ecoction of logwood, and then steep it in a solution of per-sul- 
phate or acetate of iron. 3. Immerse frequently in ink until of 
sufficient depth of color. Blue. — 1. Immerse for some time in a di- 
lute solution of stilphate of indigo, partly saturated with potash, 
and it will be fully stained. 2. Steep in a strong solution of sul*^ 
phate ot copper. Oreen. — 1. Dip blue-slalned articles for a short 
lime in nitro-Lydrooblorate of tin, and then in a hot decoction of 
fustic. 2. Boil in a solution of verdigris in vinegar until the de- 
sired color is obtained. Hed. — 1. Dip the articles first in a tinmor- 
dantj used.ia dyeing, and then plunge into a hot decoction of 
Brazil wood— i lb. to a gallon of water — or cocbineal. 2 Steep m 
red ink till .simicieiitly stained. Scarlet. — Use lac dye instead of 
the preceding^ Violet. — Dip in the tin mordant, and then immerse 
itt a decx)CJtidn of logwood. Y'Uow. — Boil the articles in e solu- 
tion of alum, 1 lb. to ^ a gallon, then immerse for half an hour in 
the foUcwiag niixtute: Take^ lb. of turmeric, and i lb. of pearl- 
ash; boil ia 1 gal. water: when taken from this, the bone must 
be again dipped in the alum solution. 

EicHijjio Fluid fob lyoar.— Take dilute sulphuric acid, dilute 
muriatic acid, equal parts: mix. For etching varnish take white 
wax, 2 parts ; tears of mastic, 2 parts : mix. 

To oiLD Ikory.— 'Immwse it in a solution of nitro-muriate of 
gold, and then expose it to hydrogen gas while damp. Wash it 
afterwards in clean water. 

To SOFTEN Ivory. — ;In 3 oz. spirits of nitre and 15 oz. of spring- 
water, mixed together, put your Ivory to soak ; and m three or 
four days it will obey your fingiers. 

To WHITEN Ivory .-r-Slack some lime in water ; put your ivory in 
the waler, after being decanted from the grounds, and boil it till 
it looks quite white. To polish it afterwards, set it in the turner's 
wheel ; and, after having wdrked, take rushes and pumice-stones, 
subtile powder, with water, and rub it till Lt looks perfectly smooth. 
Next to that, heat it by turning it against a piece of linen or sheep- 
skin leather : and when hot, rub it over with a little dry whitening 
diluted in oil of olive; then with a little dry whitening alone; 
finally with a piece of soft white rag. When all this is performed 
as directed, the ivory will look very white. 

Another way to Blbaoh Ivory. -^Take 2 handfuls of lime, slake 
it by sprinkling it with water : then add 3 pts. of water, and stir 
the whole together ; let it settle ten minutes, and pour the water 
into a pan for your purpose. Then take your ivory and steep it in 
the lime-water for 24 hours, after which, boil it in a strong alum- 
water 1 hour, and dry it m the air. 

Additional Dybs for Feathers.— ^^acA ; immerse for 2 or 3 
days in a bath, at first hot, of logwood, 8 parts, and copperas or 
acetate of iron, 1 part. Blue : with the indigo vat. Brown : by 
using any of the brown .dyes for silk or woollen. Crimson : a 
mordant of a^um, followed by a hot bath of Brazil wood, after- 
wards by a weak dye of cudbear. Ptnk or Hose .• with s.af-flower 
or lemon juice, rium; with the red dye, followed by ai; ftlka- 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



lOS 



m a 
J ot in spitits of hartshorn. Violet, — Liquid 
little salt of tartar. Yetlour. — Tincture of 



line bath. Red : a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of 
Brazil wood. Yellow . a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of 
turmeric or weld. 

Colors foe Abtipicial Ploww^.— The French employ velvety 
fine cambric, and kid for the petah, and tafeta for the leaves. 
Very recently thin plates of bceaehed whalebone htive been used 
for some portions of the artiflcialflowers. Colors and Stains. Blue. 
— Indigo dissolved in oil of vitriol, and the acid partly neutralized 
witb salt of tartar or whiting. Orcen.—A solution of distilled ver- 
digris. Lilac. — Liquid archil. JiJerf.— Carmine dissolved 
solution of salt of tartar, 
archil mixed with a 
turmeric The colors are generally applied with the fingers. 

To CUT AND POLISH MARBLB.^The mairble saw is a thm plate of 
soft iioi^, continually supplied, during its sawing motion, with 
•^ater and t)ie sharpest sand. The sawing of moderate pieces is 
performed by hand : that of lar^b slabs is most economically done 
by a proper' mill. The first substance u^ed in the polishing pro- 
cess IS the sharpest sand, whidh ^ust be wdrked with till the 
surface becomes perfectly flat. Toeh a second and even a third 
sand, of increasing fineness, is to be' applied. The next substance 
is emery, of progressive degrees of finehess j after which, tripoli is 
employed : and the last pdlish is given' with tin putty. The body 
with which the ^and is rubbed vt>oi^ the m&rble is usually a plate 
ot iron ; but, for the subsequent process, a plate of lead is used, 
with fine sand and eihery. Ttie polishing-rubbers are coarse linen 
cloths, or bagging, wedged tight into an iron planing tool. In every 
step or the operation,a constant trickling supply of water is requirea. 

Alabaster, Marble, or Ston^ may be stained of a yellow, red, 
green, blue, purple, hl%ck, or any or the compound colors, by the 
stains used for wood. 

Powerful Cement for Brokeit Marble.— Take gum Arabic, 1 lb.; 
make into a thick mucilage : add to it powdered plaster of Paris. 
1^ lb. ; sifted quick lime, 5 oz. ; mix well; heat the marble, ana 
apply the mixture. 

SfiVEN Cqlobs for Staining MARBLB.-~It is necessary to heat the 
marble hot^ but not so hot as to injure it, the proper heat being 
that at which the colors nearly boil; Bliiey alKsAine indij?o dye, 
or turnsole witl\ alkali. Med; dragon's blood in spirits of wine. 
Yellow ; gamboge in spirits of wine. Gold 'Gotor; sal-ammoniac, 
sulphate of zinc, and verdigris, equal parts. Qreen ; sap green, in 
spirits of potash. Brwon: tincture of logwood. Crimson ; alka- 
net root in turpentine.' Mdrble may be veined according to taste. 
To stain marble well is a difficult operation. 

Perpetual Ink for Tombstones, etc.— Pitch, 11 lbs. ; lampblack, 
1 lb. ; turpentine suflBcient ; mix With heat. 

To Clean Old Marble. — Take a bullock's ^all. 1 gill soap lees, 
half a gill of turpentine ; make into a paste witlrpipeclay, apply it 
to the marble ; let it dry a day or two, then rub it oflF, and it will 
appear equal to new ; if very dirty, repeat the application. 

To EXTRACT Oil from Marble or Stone.— Soft soap, 1 part ; fullers 
earth, 2 parts ; potash, 1 part ; boiling water to mix. Lay it on 
tUe spots of grease, attd let it remaiu for ti few hours. 



ii 



106 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTESS, dC, RECEIPTS. 



I 



To Cliak Marbli. — Take two parts of common soda, i part pu- 
mice stone, and 1 part of finely powdered chalk ; sift it througn a 
fine sieve, and mix it with water ; then rub it well all over the 
marble^ and the stains will be removed ; then wash the marble over 
with soap and water, and it will be as clean as it was at first. 

To MA&a ▲ OdBMiOAL Baromitbr.— Take a long, narrow bottle, 
and put into it2j^ drs. of camphor; spirits of wine, 11 drs. When 
the camphor is dissolved, add to it tne following mixture : water 
9 drs. ; saltpetre, 38 |^rs, ; sal-ammoniac, 38 grs. Dissolve ibese 
salts in the water prior to mixing with the camphorated spirit; 
then shake all well together, cork the bottle well, wax the top, but 
afterwards make a very small aperture in the cork with a ledthot 
needle. By observing the different appearances which tbe mate- 
rials a<}3ume as the weather changes, it becomes an excellent prog- 
nosticator of a coming storm or of a sunny sky. 

PiiUfTXR'a RoLLBRS are made of glue and molasses, with some-^ 
times a little Spanish white. The proportions are 1 lb. glue to 1 
pint molasses. Break the glue to pieces , soak for 24 hours, then 
melt the molasses^and cast in a mould previously oiled to prevent 
it from sticking. Whea it gets hard after long use, remelt it, using 
a little more molasses. 

iSAVAGB's Printing Ink.— Pure balsam of copaiba, 9 oz ; lamp- 
black, 3i, oz. ; indigo and Prussian blue, each 5 drams ; Indian 
red, f oz. ; yellow soap, 3 oz. Mix, and grind to the utmost smooth- 
uess. 

Trappbr's and Anolir's Sborbt roR Gamb and Fish.— A lew 
drops of oil of anise, or oil rhodium, on any trapper's bait, will 
entu' > any wild animal into the snare trap. India cockle 4nized 
with flour dough, and sprinkled on the surface of still watei*, will 
intoxicate fish, rendering them insensible ; when coming up to the 
surface, they can be lifted into a tub of fresh water to revive them, 
when tney may be used without fear. 



RECEIPTS FOR CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, GILDERS. 
BRONZERS, GLASS STAINERS, &o. 

Chbap Black "Walnut Stain.— Burnt umber, 2 parts, rose pink, 
1 part, glue, 1 part, water sufficient : heat all together and dis- 
solve completely, apply to the work first with a sponge, then go 
over it with a brush, and varnish over with shellac. 

Ebony Stain.— Drop black, 2 parts, rose pink, 1 part, turpentine, 
a sufficient quantity. 

Bright Yellow Stain. — 1. Brush over with the tincture of tur- 
meric. 2. Warm the work, and brush it over with weak aquafortis • 
varnish or oil as usual. 3. A very small bit of aloes put into the 
varnish will give a rich yellow color to the wood, 

ExTRA Black Stain for Wood.— Pour 2 quarts boiling water 
over 1 oz. of powdered extract of logwood, and, when the solution 
is effected, 1 dr. of yellow cbromate of potash is added, and the 
whole well stirred. It is ttiea ready for use as s^ wood-stain, or for 



I oz ; lamp- 



GABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 107 

writing ink. When rubbed on wood, it produces a pure black. 
Repeat with 2, 3, or 4 applications, till a deep black is produced, 
which acquires the highest beauty when polished or stained. 

Imitation of BlAHOGANY.^Let the first coat of painting be 
white lead, the second, orange, and the last, burnt umber or sienna : 
imitating the veins according to your taste and practice. 

To Imitatb Wainscot. — ^Let the first coat be whi»e ; the second, 
half white and halt yellow ochre; and the third, yellow Ochre 
onlv ; shadow with nmber or sienna. 

To Imitate Satin Wood. — Take white for your first coating, 
light blue for the second, and dark blue or dark green for the 
third. 

Rosewood Satin, vbrt Briqht Sbaob. — ^sid Cold.— Take al- 
cohol. 1 gal. ; cam.wood, 2 oz. ; set them .n a warm place 24 
hours ; then add extract of logwood, 3 oz. ; aq'iafortis, 1 oz. ; and 
when dissolved, it is ready for use ; it makes a very bright gnound 
like the most beautiful rosewood ; 1,2, or more coats as you desire, 
over the whole surface. 

Varnish for Framks, itc— Lay the frames over witn tin or 
silver foil by means of plaster o^ Paris, glue or cement of some 
kind, that the foil may be perfectly adherefit to the wood ; then 
apply your gold lacquer varnish, which is made as follows : 
Ground turmeric, 1 lb ; powdered gamboge, Ij^ ounces; powdered 
sandarach, 3^ lbs ; powdered shellac, | lbs. ; spirits of wine, 2 gals. ; 
dissolve and strain ; then add turpentine varnish, 1 pt. ; &nd it is 
ready for use. 

Cherry Stain. — Rain water, 3 qts. ; annotto, 4 oz. ; boil in a 
copper kettle till the annotto is dissolved, then put in a piece of 
potash the size of a walnut ; keep it on the fire about half an hour 
longer, and it is ready to bottle for use. 

Rosewood Stain, Light Shade. — Equal parts of logwood and 
red-wood chips, boil well in water sufiScient to make a strong 
stain ; applv it to the furniture while hot ; 2 or 3 coats according 
to the depth of color desired. 

Rose Pink Stain and Varnish. — Put 1 oz. of potash in 1 qt. 
watei', with red sailders, 1^ oz. ; extract the color from the wood 
and strain ; then add gum shellac, i lb. , dissolve it by a brisk 
hre. Used upon logwood stain f6r rosewood imitation. 

Blue Stain for wood. — 1. Dissolve copper filings in aquafortis, 
brush the wood with it, and then go over the work with a hot so- 
lution of pearlash (2 oz.to 1 pt. of water) till it assumes a perfectly 
blue color. 2, Boil 1 lb, of mdigo, 2 lbs. wood, and 3 oz. alum, in 
1 gal. water, brush well over until thoroughly stained. 

Imitation of Botany-Bai Wood.— Boil ^ lb. French berries (the 
unripe berries of the Rhamnus infectorius) m 2 qts. water till of a 
deep yellow, and while boiling hot, give 2 or 3 coats to the work. 
If a deeper color is desired, give a coat of logwood decoction over 
the yelltiw When nearly dry, form the grain with No. 8, black 
stain, used tiot, and, when dry, rust and varnish. 

Mahogany Color — Dark.— 1. Boil 4 lb, of madder and 2 oz. log- 
wood-cbips in a gallon ot water, and brush well over while hot ; 
wbeu dry co over the whole with pearlash solution, 2 drs. to the 
^^^^^x:X. i rut 2 oz. dragon's blooa, bruised, into a quart of oil of 



108 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTEBB, iC, RtCEirTS. 



turoentine ; let the bottle stand in a wa- x)iace, shake frequently, 
ana, when dissolved, steep the work in v. ixture. 

Box- Wood Buown Stain.— Hold your i to the fire, that it 
may receive a gentle warmth : then take uquafortis, and, with a 
feather, pass it over the work till you find it change to a fine brown 
(always keeping it near the fire) , you may then varnish or polish it. 

LiGBT Rid Browk.— Boil ^ lb. madder and i lb. fustic m 1 gal. 
water ; brush over the work, when boiling bot, until properly stain- 
ed. 2. The surface of the work being quite smooth, orusb ovei- 
with a weak solution of aouafortis, ^ oz. to the pint ; then tiiiish 
with the following :— Put 4j oz dragon's blood and 1 oz.sod^, both 
well bruised, to 3 pts. spirits of wine, let it stand in a warm place, 
shako frequently, strain and lay on with a soft brush, repeating until 
of a proper color ; polish with linseed oil or tarnish. 

Purple. — Brush tne work several times with t^ie logwood decoc- 
tioirused for No 6, Black; and, when dry, give a coat of pcarla;ih 
^solution, 1 dr. to a ouart • lay it on evenly. 

Red.— 1. Bo>l I lb. Brazil wood and 1 oz. pearlash in a gal. of 
water; and, while hot, brush over the work until of a proper color. 
Dissolve 2 oz alum in 1 qt. water, and brush th^ solutioa over the 
work before it dries. 2. Take a gallon of the above stain, add 2 oz. 
more pearlash ; use hot, and brush over with the alum solution. 
3. Vstt a cold solution of archil, and brush over with the pearlash 
solution for No. 1, Dark mahogany. 

Mahogaht Stamt on Wood.— Take nitric acid, dilute with 10 
parts of water, and wash the wood with it. To produce roseicood 
finish, glaze the same with carmine or Munich lake. Asphaltum, 
thinned with turpentine, forms an excellent mahogany color on new 
work. 

Beautiful Varnish for Violins, &c.— Rectified spirits of wine, J 
gal. ; add 6 oz. gum sandarach,3 oz. gum luastic, and ^ pt. turpen- 
tine varnish; put the above in a tin can by the stove, frequently 
shaking till well dissolved : strain and keep for use. If vou fiad 
it harder than you wish,, thin with more turpentine varnisn 

Another. — Heat together at a low temperature 2 qts. of alcohol, 
A pt. turpentine varnish, and 1 lb. clean gum mastic; when the 
latter is thoroughly dissolved, strain through a cloth. 

Crimson Stain for Musical Instruments.— Ground Brazil wood, 
1 lb. ; water, 3 qts. ; cochinecil, 4 ounce ; boil the Brazil with the 
water for an hour, strain, add the cochineal: boil gently for half 
an hour, when it will be fit for use. If you wish a scarlet tint^ boil 
an ounce of safi^on in a quart of water, and pass over the work 
before you stain it. 

Purple StaIn. — Chipped logwood, 1 lb. ; water, 3 qts. ; pearlash, 
4 ounces ; powdered ndigo, 2 ouaces. Boil the logwood in the 
water half an hour, add the pearlash and indigo, and when dis- 
solved, you will have a beautiful purple. 

Green Stain.— Strong vinegar, 3 pts. ; best verdigris, 4 ounces, 
ground tine ; sap green, i ounce : mix together. 

Black Stains for Wood. — 1. Drop a little sulphuric acid into a 
small quantity of water ; brush over the wood and hold it to the tire . 
it will be afine black and receive a erood polish. 2 For a beaiitiful 
blackj on wood, nothing can exceed the black Ja^jan meutioued 



t^ 



CABINETMAKEBS, PAIKT£ES, &C., OECEITTS. 109 



under Tinsmith's Department. Apply two coats ; after vhich, var- 
nish and polish it. 3. To 1 eal. vinegar, add a quarter of a pound 
of iron rust; let it stand ror a week ; then add a pound of dry 
lampblack, and three-quarters of a pound copperas ; stir it up for 
a couple of days. Lay on hve or six coats with a sponge, allowing 
it to dry between each : polish with hcseed-oil and a soft woollen 
ra^, and it will look like ebony. Incomparable for iron work, 
ships' guns, shot, &c 4. Vinegar, ^ gal, : dry lampblack, ^ lb. , 
iron-rust sifted, 3 lbs. ; mix and let stand ror a week. Lay three 
coats of this on hot, and then rub with linseed oil, and vou will 
have a fine deep black. 5. Add to the above stain, nut-galls, 1 oz. ; 
logwood-chips, ^ lb. : copperas, \ lb. , lay on three coats ; oil well, 
and you will have a black stain that will stand any kind of wea- 
ther, and is well adapted for ships' combings, kc, 6 Logwood- 
chips, ^ Ih. ; Brazil-wood, i lb ; boil for 1} hours in 1 gal. water 
Brush the wood with this decoction while hot ; make a decoction 
of nut-galls, by simmering gently, for three or four days, a ouarter 
ot a pound of the galis m 3 qts. water ; give the wood three 
coats, and, while wet, lay on a solution of sulphate of iron i2 oz to 
a quart), and, when dry, oil or varnish 7 Give three coats with a 
solution of copper filings in aquafortis, and repeatedlv brush over 
with the logwood deqoction until the greenness of the copper is 
destroyed. 8. Boil ^ lb logwood-chip in 2 quarts water , add an 
ounce of pearlash, and apply hot with a brush. Then take 2 qts. 
of the logwood decoction, and A oz. of verdigris, and the same ot 
copperas ; strain, and throw in | lb of iron rust. Brush the work 
well with this, and oil. 

MiscELLANBODS Staims. — Yellow 18 produced by diluted nitric acid 
Red is produced by a solution of dragon's blood in spirits of wine 
Black is produced by a strong solution of nitric acid. Oreen is 
produced by a solution of verdigris in nitnc acid ; then, dipped in 
a hot solution of pearlash produces a Blue stain Purple is produced 
by a solution of sal-ammoniac in nitric acid 

'Finishing with One Coat of Varnish. — Valuable Process — Give 
the furniture a coat of boiled linseed oil, then immediately sprinkle 
diy whiting upon it, and rub it in well with your hand or a stiff 
brush, all over the surface ; the whiting absorbs the oil, and fills the 

Eores of the wood completely For black walnut, add a little 
urned umber to the whitmg : for cherry, a little Venetian red, 
i&c , according to the color oftne wood Turned work can have it 
applied while in motion m the lathe. Furniture can afterwards be 
tinished with only one coat of varnish. 

Mahogany Stain on Maple.—- Dragon's blood, | oz. ; alkanet, |^ 
oz. ; aloes, 1 dr. ", spirits of wine, 16 oz. ; apply it with a sponge or. 
brush. 

To Polish Wood. — Take a piece of pumice-stone and water, and 
pass repeatedly over the work until the rising of the grain is cut 
down Then take powdered tripoli and boiled linseed oil, and 
polish tho woik to a bright surface. 

Clock Case and Picture Frame Finish.-— Copal varnish, 2 lbs. ; 
linseed oil varnish, ^ oz. ; mix well, shake often, and place in a 
warm spot The wood to be varnished is prepared with a thin coat 
vf ^lue-waver, aud rubbed dovfix with fine purftige-stoae or som^j- 



I i 



l' 



110 OABI24£TMAK£ES; PAINTEBS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

tfainff CNquivalent. in light-colored wood, a light pigment, such as 
chalk, is added to the glue-water ; in dark wood, a dark pigment is 
added When readv, the articles are varnish<!d with the above 
mixture, and^ after drying, rubbed with a solution of wax in ether, 
thereby receiving a high polish 

Fancy Fiqurbb on Wood — Slack some lime in stale urine. Dip 
a brush in it. and form on the wood figures to suit your fancy. 
When dry. ruD it well with a rind of pork. 

Black Walnut Polish. — Take pulveriaed aspnaltnm ; put it in a 
ar or bottle, pour over it about twice its bulk of tuipentino or 
)enzole, put in a warm place, and shake occasionally ; When dis- 
solved, strain, and apply it to the wood with a cloth or stiff brush ; 
should it prove too dark, dilute with turpentiue or benzole. If de- 
sired to hnxifr out the grain still more apply a mixture of boiled 
o:l and turpentine ; this is better than oil alone When the oil is 
dry, the wood can be polished with the following. Shellac varnish, 
2 parts boiled oil, 1 part . shake it well before usmg Apply with 
a cloth, rubbing briskly 

Polishes.— 1 Carverf Polish. — White resin, 2 oz; seed lac, 2 
oz. ; spirits of wine, 1 pt. Dissolve It should be laid on warm. 
Avoid moisture and dampness when used. 2. French Polish.— 
Gum shellac, l oz ^ gun arabic, i oz ; gum copal, ^ oz. Powder, 
and sift through a piece of muslin; put them in a closely corked bottle 
with 1 pt. spirits of wine, in a very warm situation, shaking every 
dap till the gums are dissolved : then strain through muslm, and 
cork for use. 3 Polish for Dark-colored Ifooflfa.— Seedlac, 1 oz. ; 
gum guaiaoum, 2 dr.i ; dragon's blood, 2 drs. ; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; 
put in a bottle with 1 pt spirits of wine, cork close, expose to a 
moderate heat till the gums are dissolved ; strain into a bottle for 
use. with i gill of linseed oil ; shake together. 4, Waterproqf 
Polish. — Gum benjamin, 2 oz * gum sandaracb, \ oz. ; gum anima, } 
oz i spirits pf wine, 1 pt ; mix in a closely stopped bottle, and place 
either in a sand bath or in hot water till the gums are dissolved, 
then strain ofi the mixture, shake it up with |^ gill of the best 
clear poppv oil, and put it by for use. 5. Finishing Polish. — Gum 
shellac, 2 drs , gum oeniamin, 2 drs. ; put into ^ pt. of best rectified 
spirits of wine in a bottle closely corked ; keep in a warm place, 
shaking frequently till the gums are dissolved. When cold, shake 
up with it two teaspoonfuls of the best clear poppy oil. 

PoLisn FOR Removing Stains, Spots, and Mildew from Furni- 
ture. — ^^Take of 98 per cent alcohol, J pint. ; Dulverised rosin and 
gum shellac, of eacn, i oz. Let these cut in the alcohol •, then add 
linseed oil, ^ pt. ; shake well, and apply with a sponge, brush, or 
cotton flannel, or an old newspaper, rubbing it well after the 
application, which gives a nice polish 

Polish for Reviving Old Furniture.— Take alcohol, IJ oz. , 
spirits of salts (muriatic acid), ^ oz, ; linseed oil, 8 oz. ; best vine- 
gar, J pt. ; and butter of antimony, IJ oz. ; mix, putting in the 
vinegar last. 

Jbt or Polish for Wood or Leather, Black, Red, or Blub.— 
Alcohol (98 per cent.), 1 pt. , sealing wax, the color desired, 3 
sticks ; dissolve by heat, and have it warm wh«Q applied. A sponge 
l& the best to apply it w^ith. 



eABINETMAKBM, fAINTEM, AC, REOIIFn. Ill 

PoLMR VOK Tmums' Woiuc.— DiBSolve landarach, I oz,, in apirit 
of wioe, ^ pt.; next share bees'-wax, 1 oz^ ; and dissolve it{n a suffi- 
cient quantity of spirits of turpentine to make it into a paste ; add 
the former mixture by deip^^es to it, then with a woollen cloth apply 
it to the work while it is in motion in the lathe, and with a soft 
liaen rag polish it. It will appear as if highly yamished. 

FuRmTmti POLitlH. — Bees'-wax, f lb., and | of an oz. of alkanet 
root ; melt together in a pipkin until the former is well colored. 
Then add linseed oil and spirits of turpentine, of each half a gill ; 
strain through a piece of coarse muslin. 

Frbnob Polibhbs.— 1. Shellac, 3 lbs. *, wood naphtha, 3 pts. ; dis- 
solve. 2. Shellac. 2 lbs. ; powdered mastic and sandarach, of each 
1 oz. ; eopal-varnish, } pint ; spirits of wine, 1 gal. Digest in the 
cold till aissolved. 

Oil Finish.— 1. Linsaed oil, 19 oz. ; black rosin, 4oz.: yineffar.4 oc. 
rectified spirits, 3 oz. ; butter of antimony, 10 o'^. ; spirit of salts, 2 
OS. ', melt the roein, s.dd. the oil, take it off the fire, and stir in the 
vinegar ; let it boil for a ftw minutes, stirring it; when cool, put it 
into a bottle, add the other ingredients, shaking all together. 2. 
Linseed oil, 1 pt. ; oil of tntpentlne, j^ pt ; reotmed spirit^ 4 oas.; 
powdered rosin, 1| oz. ; rose pink, i oz.: mix. 

FuRMiTURi Fastis.— 1. Bees'-wax, spirits of turpentine, and lin- 
seed, oil. equal parts ; melt and cool. 2. Bees'-wax, four ounces *, 
turpentine, 10 oz. : alkahet root, tp Color ; melt and sthiin. 3. 
Bees'-wax, 1 ib. ; linseed oil, 6 oz. ; alkanet root, ) oz^ ; nielt, and 
add 5 oz. of turpentine ; strain and cool .4. Bees'-wiix, 4 oz. ; resin, 
1 oz. ; oil of turpentine, 2 oz. ; Venetian red, to color. 

FuBNiTURB Pabtb.- 1,. Turpentine^ 1 pt, ; alkanet root, 1 oz. ; dir 
gest until sufficiently coldred, then add beeb'-wax. scrape a small, 4 
oz. ; put the vessel into hot water, and stir till dissolved. It 
wanted pal«, the alkanet root should be omitted. 2. ( White.) White 
wax, 1 lb. ; liquor of potassa, i gal. ; boil to a proper consistence. 
S. Bees'-wax; 1.1b. : soap, | lb. ; pearlash, 3 oz. (dissolved in water, | 
gal., and strained) ; boil as last. 4. Yellow wax, 18 parts ; resin, 1 
part; alkanet roof, 1 part; turpentine, 6 parts : linseed oil, 6 parts. 
First steep the alkanet in the oil with heat, ana, when 'vrell colored, 
pour off toe clear on the other Lugredients, and again heat till all 
are dissolved. 

FuBNiTURK Oriam.— Bees'-wax, 1 lb. •, soap, 4 oz. ; pearlash, 2 oz. ; 
soft watery 1 gal. ; boil together until mixed. 

FuRNiTURB Dils.— 1. Acetic acid, 2 dr^.; oil of, lavender, \ dr.; 
rectified spirit, 1 dr.; linseed oil, 4 oz. 2. LinseCid oil, 1 pt.j al- 
kanet root, 2 oz. : heat, strain, and add lac varnish, 1 oz. 3. Lin- 
seed oil, 1 pt. ; rectified spirit, 2 oz. ; butter pf antimony, 4 oz. 4. 
Linseed oil. 1 gal. ; alkanet-root, 3 oz. ; rose pink, 1 oz. Boil 
them togetner ten minutes, and strain so that the oil be quite 
clear. 

WooD-Fn<LiNO Composition.- Boiled linseed oil, 1 qt. ; turpentine, 
3 c[ts - CQrn starch, 5 lbs. ; Japan, 1 qt. ; calcined magnesia, 2 oz. 
Mix iLoroughly. 

Impbovid WooD-iiLi.raa Composition.— Whitening, 6 oz. ; Japan, 
\ pt.; boiled linseed oil, | pt ; tiarpentine,,* pt; com starch, 1 
oz. Mix w$ll together and appl^ to the we«a. On walnut wm4 



112 CABINETMAKERS, PAIKTEBS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



I 

V 



add a little burned umber, on cherry a little Venetian red, to the 
above mixture. 

Dyb8 for Vbnbjbrs. — A fine Black. — Put 6 lbs. of logwood chips 
into ;four copper, with as many veneers as it will hold without 

Eressine too tight, fill it with water, let it boil slowly for about S 
ours, then add ^ lb. of powdered verdigrit, ^ lb. copperas, bruised 
'gall'ttuts, 4 oz. ; ml the copper up with vinegar as the water evapo> 
i-ates; let it boil gently 2 hours each day till the wood is dyed 
through. A fine Blue.— Pxxt oil of vitriol, 1 lb., and 4 oz. of the 
best powdered indigo, in a glass bottle. Set it in a glazed earthen 
pan, as it will ferment. Now put your veneers mto a copper or 
stone trough ; fill it rather more than one-third with water, and 
add as much of the vitriol and indigo (stirring it about) as will 
make fine blue, testing it with apiece of white paper or wood. Let 
jthe veneers remain till the dye has struck through. Keep the solution 
of indigo a few weeks before using it ; this improves the color. Fine 
Yellow. — Reduce 4 lbs. cf the root ot barberry to dust by sawing, 
which put in a copper or brass trough ; add turmeric. 4 oz. ; water, 
4 gals. : then put in as many white holly veneers as the l^LUor will 
cover. Boil them together for 3 hours, often turning them. "Wnen cool, 
^add aquafortis, 2 oz., and the dye will strike through much sooner. 
)£right Green. — Proceed as in the previous receipt to produce a 
lyellow ; but, instead of aquafortis, add as much of the vitriolated 
lindigo (see above under blue dyej as will produce the desired 
I color. Bright Red. — Brazil dust, 2 lbs. ; add water, 4 gals. Put 
in as many veneers as the liquid will cover : boil them for 3 hours, 
then add alum. 2 oz., aquafortis, 2 oz. ; and keep it luke-warm until 
it has struck through. Purple. — To 2 lbs. of chip logwood and ^ 
lb. Brazil dust, add 4 gals, of water ; and after putting in your 
veneers, boil for 3 hours ; then add pearlash, 6 oz., and alum, 2 oz. ; 
let them boil for 2 or 3 hours every day till the color has struck 
through. Orange. — Take the veneers out of the above yellow dye. 
and while still wet and saturated, transfer them to the bright red 
dye till the color penetrates throughout. 

To IMPROVE THB CoLOB OF Stains. — Nitric acid, 1 oz. ; muriatic 
acid, ^ teaspoonful ; grain tin, \ oz. ; rain water, 2 oz. Mix it at 
least 2 days before using, and keep your bottle well corked. 

Stromq Glue for Inlaying or Vbnkbring.— Select the best light 
brown glue, free from clouds and streaks. Dissolve this in water, 
and to every pint add half a gill of the best vinegar and i oz. of 
isinglass. 

Inlatd Mother of Pearl Work, on sewing machines and other 
fancy work, is performed by selecting the thin scales of the shell 
and cementing them to the surface of the material ; the rest of the 
surface is covered with euccessive coats of Japan varnish, gene- 
rally black, being subjected to a baking process after each appli- 
cation. When the varnish is as thick as the shell, it is polished, 
the gilding and painting added, and a flowing coat of varnish put 
over the whole. 

Another Method.— Prepare the job with a heavy coat of black 
Japan ; then, before it is dry, procure some flakes of pearl and lay 
them on the olack surface, pressing them into the Japan until they 
)ur« l«vel with the iurface ; then with colors form vines Aud flowersi 



RECEIPTS. 



metiau red, to the 



CABINETMAKERS, iPAINTERSj AC, llECElMS. ITS 

nUowitig the pearl to form the body of the flower or leaf, and shade 
up all nicely. 

CoMpoDND Colors. — Light Gray is made by mixing white lead 
with lamp black, using more or less of each material, as you wish 
to obtain a lighter or darker shade. Buf is made from yellow 
ochre and white lead. Silver or Pearl Gray. — Mix white lead, 
Prussian blue, and a very slight portion of black, regulating the 
quantities you wish to obtain. FUtxen Gray is obtained by a mix- 
ture of white lead and Prussian blue, with a small c[uantityof lake. 
Brick Color. — Yellow ochre and red lead, with a little white. Oak 
Wood Color. — % white lead and i part umber and yellow ochre, 
proportions of the last two ingrecuents being determined by the 
desired tints. Walnut-tree Color. — % white lead, and i red ochre, 
yellow ochre, and umber, mixed according to the shade sought. If 
veining is required, use different shades of the same mixture, and 
for the deepest places, black. Jonquil. — Yellow, pink, and white 
lead. This color is only proper for distemper. Lemon Yellow. — 
Realgar and orpiment. The same color can be obtained by mixing 
yellow pink with Naples vellow ; but it is then only fit for distem- 
per. Orange Color. — Red lead and yellow ochre. Violet Color. — 
Vermilion, or red lead, mixed with black or blue, and a small por- 
tion of white. Vermilion is preferable to red lead in mixing this 
color. Purple. — Dark-red mixed with violet color. Carnation. — 
Lake and white. Gold Color.— Massicot, or Naples yellow, with 
a small quantity of realgar, and a very little Spanish white. Olive 
Color may be obtained by olack and a little blue, mixed with yel- 
low. Yellow-pink, with a little verdigris and lampblack ; also 
ochre and a small quantity of white will produce an olive color. 
For distemper, indigo and yellow-pink, mixed with white lead or 
Spanish white, must be used. If veined, it must be done with umber. 
Lead Color. — Prussian blue and white. Chestnut Color. — Red ochre 
and black, for a dark chestnut. To make it lighter, employ a mix- 
ture of yellow ochre. Light Timber Color — Spruce ochre, white, 
and a little umber. Flesh Color. — Lake, white lead, and a little 
vermilion. Light Willow Green. — White, mixed with verdigris. 
Grass Green. — Yellow-pink, mixed with verdigris. Stone Color. — 
White, with a little spruce ochre. Dark Lead Color — Black and 
white, with a little Prussian blue. Fawn Color. — White lead, stone 
I ochre, with a little vermilion. Chocolate Color. — Lampblack and 
Spanish brown. On account of the fatness of lampblack, mix some 
litharge and red lead. Portland Stone Color. — Umbeir, yellow ochre, 
and white lead. Rose Color. — White lead and carmine or lake. 
\ Salmon Color. — White lead and blue, yellow, and red. Pearl Color. 
I— White lead, Prussian blue, and red. Slate Color. — White lead, 
Iblack, red and blue. Pea Green. — White lead and chrome, or Paris 
[green. Cream Color. — White lead, yellow and red. Straw Color. 

-White lead a:id yellow. Peach Blossom Color. — White lead and 
[vermilion. Brown. — Venetian red and lampblack. Dark Green. 
j— Lampblack and chrome green. Olive Color. — Red, green, or 
Iblack, yellow and red. Snuff Color, — Yellow, sienna, and red. 
I Prussian Blub. — 1st. Take nitric acid, any quantity, and as much 
|iron shavings from the lathe as the acid will dissolve ; heat the 

ron as hot as can be handled with the hand; then add it to the 



ii m 
' If 



il4 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS. ftC., REOEII>TlS. 

acid in small qnantities as long as the acid will dissolve it ; then 
slowly add double the (Quantity of soft water that there was of 
acid, and put in iron again as long as the acid will dissolve it. 2d, 
Take prussiate of potash, dissolve it in the hot water to make a 
strong solution, and make suificient of it with the first to give the 
depth of lint dqaired, and Uie blue is made. 

Amothbr Mjqt^od. — A very passable Prussian blue is made by 
taking sulphate of iron (copperas) and prussiate of potash, equal 
parts of each ; and dissolving each separately in water, then mix- 
ing the two waters. 

Cbbomb Ybllow.— 1st. Take sugar of lead and Paris white, of 
each 6 Ibs^ ; dissolve them in hot water. 2d. Tak& bichromate of 
potash, 6^ oz. ; and dissolve it in hot water also ; each article to 
be dissolved separately ; then mix all together, putting in the bi- 
chromate last. Let stand twenty-four hours. 

Chbomb Gbsbn.— Take Paris white, 6^ lbs.; sugar of lead, and 
blue vitriol, of each 3i lbs. ; alum, 10^ oz. ; best soft Prussian 
blue and chrome yellow, of each 3i lbs. Mix thoroughly while 
in fine powder, and add water, 1 gal., stirring well, and let stand 
three or four hours. 

Grkbn, DuRABiiB AND Chbap.^— Take spruce yellow, and color it 
with a solution of chrome yellow and Prussian blue, until you f 
give it the shade you wish. 

AMO'raBR Mbthod. — Blue vitriol, 5 lbs. ; sugar of lead, 6^ lbs. ; 
arsenic, 2i lbs. ; bichromate of potash, 1^ oz. ; mix them thoroughly 
in fine poWder, and add water 3 parts, mixing well again, and let 
stand thi^e or four hours. 

Pba Brown. — 1st. Take culphate of copper any qjaantity, and 
dissolve it in hot water. 2d. Take prussiate of potash, dissolve it in 
hot water to make a strong solution ; mix of the two solutions, 
as in the blue, and the color is made. 

RoBB Pink. — Brazil wood, 1 lb., and boil it for two hours, having 
1 gal. of water at the end ; then strain it, and boil alum, 1 lb., in 
the same water until dissolved ; when sufficiently cool to admit 
the hand, add muriate of tin, | oz. Now have Paris white, 12^ 
lb. ; moisten up to a salvy consistence, and when the first is cool, 
stir them thoroughly together. Let stand twenty-four hours. 

Patent Yellow. — Common salt, 100 lbs., and litharge, 400 lbs., 
are ground together with water, and for some time in a gentle heat, 
water being added to supply the loss by evaporatiop ; the car- 
bonate of soda is then washed out with more water, and the white j 
residtwm heated till it acquires a fine yellow color. 'j 

Naples Yellow. — No. 1. Metallic antimony, 12 lbs. ; red lead, 8 
lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 4 lbs. Mix, calcine, triturate well together, 
and fuse in a crucible : the fused mass must be ground and elu- 
triated to a fine powder. 

Cheap Yellow Paint. — Whiting, 3 cwt. ; ochre, 2 cwt. ; ground 
white lead, 25 lbs. Factitious linseed oil to grind. 

Stonb-Color Paint. — Road-dust, 2 cwt. ; ground Thite lead, J 
cwt. j whiting, 1 cwt. ; ground umber, 14 lbs. ; lime water, 6 gals. 
Fictitious linseed oil to grind. 

Glazier's Potty.— Whiting, 70 lbs.; boiled oil, 30 lbs. Mfac; 
if too thin, add more whiting ; if too thick, add more oil. 



^ dABlNHTMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RBOEIJTS. Il4(* 



ny qjiantity, and 



CoMPOUin) Colors.— JJ/t/a.— "Grind Pruasian blue in turpa, other 
blue, very fine in linseed oil ; mix with white paint to tne color 
required. Straw. — A mixture of chrome yellow and white lead, 
oil and turps. Steel.— "HLvs. ceruse, Prussian blue, fine lac, and ver- 
milion, with oil and turps. Purple. — White lead, Prussian blue 
and vermilion, with oil and turps. French Orey. — White lead and 
Prussian blue, tinged with vennilion, and for the last coat substi- 
tu'e carmine or lake for vermilion. Drab. — White lead with a 
little Prussian blue and French yellow, linseed oil and turps. An- 
other Drab.— White lead with a little Prussian blue and lampblack, 
liciaeed oil and turps. DarkRed, for common purposes. — Mix Eng- 
lish t'^enetian red, in boiled oil, with a little red lead and litharge, 
to give a dryine quality. Lighter Red. — Mix together equal parts 
of Venetian red and red lead, in boiled oil a,hd turps. Imitation of 
Vermilion. — Grind together, in oil- red lead and rose pink. Deep 
Red. — Mix, in oil, vermilion with a dust of Venetian red, or red 
lead. Uvfading Orange. — This is a mixture of orange lead (orpi- 
ment) and French or stone yellow, oil and turps. Bright Yellow, 
for floors. — White lead and linseed oil, mixed with some French 
yellow, and a little chrome yellow to heighten it, some red lead, 
burnt white vitriol and litharge, added, to give it a drying quality. 
This color mixed with equal parts of boiled oil and turpentine, and 
used very thin. Dark Yellow. — Mix French yellow in boiled oil, 
adding to it a little red lead or litharge to give the pain^ a drying 
quality. Light Yellow. — This is a mixture of French j ellow and 
white lead,with oil and turpentine. Another. — French yellow, white 
lead and red lead. Another. — This is a mixture of Prussian blue, 
French yellow, a small portion of Turkey umber, and a little burnt 
vitriol. Ground the same wav. Another^ in oil. — Mix Prussian bl ue 
and chrome yellow. Ground the same. Another Shade. — A mix- 
ture of Prussian blue and French yellow, with a small quantity of 
white lead and Turkey umber; add burnt white vitriol, ground the 
same. Another, light. — White mixed with verdigris. A variety of 
shade J may be obtained by using blue and yellow with white lead. 
Another, olive. — Black and blue mixed with yellow, in such quantities 
as to obtain the colors or shades required. For distemper, use indigo 
and yellow pink mixed with whiting or white lead powder. Free- 
stone color. — A mixture of red lead, Venetian red,French yellow and 
lampblack, ^varying the shade according to taste.) with liuseed oil 
and turpentine. Olive Green. — Grind, separately, Prussian blue 
and French yellow, in boiled oil, then mix to tne tints required 
with a little burnt white vitriol to act as a dryer. A cheap and 
handsome color for outside work, such as doors, carts, waggons, 
railings, &c. 

Lead Color for Iron, — Take litharge and place it over afire 
in a ladle ; sprinkle over it flour of brimstone, to turn it dark ; 
grind it in oil. It dries quick, and stands well in any weather. 

A Good Imitation op Gold. — Mix white lead, cnrome yellow 
and burnt sienna until the proper shade is obtained. 

A Beautiful White PAiNT.-For inside work. which ceases to smell, 
and dries in a few hours. Add 1 lb. of frankincense to 2 quarts ol 
spirits of turpentine ; dissolve it over a clear fire, strain it, and 



u 



1 



m 



1146 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPT^. 

bottle it for use ; then add 1 pint of this mixture to 4 pints of 
bleached linseed oil, shake tbem well together, ^ind white lead in 
spirits of turpentine, and strain it ; then add sufficient of the lead 
to make it proper for painting ; if too thick in using, thin with 
turpentine, it being suitable for the best internal work on account 
of its superiority and expense. 

For a pcrb Whitf Paint.— N"ut-oil is the best ; if linseed oil is 
used, add one-third of turpentine. 

To MIX OoBiMON Whith Paint.— Mix or grind white lead in linseed 
oil to the consistency of paste ; add turpentine in the proportion of 
one quart to iae gallon of oil; but tnese proportions must be 
varied according to circumstances. Remember to strain your color 
for the better sorts of work. If the work is exposed to the sun, 
use more turpentine for the ground-color^ to prevent its blistering. 

Invisible Green for Outside Work.— Mix lampblack and French 
yellow with burnt white vitriol. These colors mix in boiled oil. 
Burnt vitriol is the best drier for greens,a3 it is powerful and color- 
less, and, consequently, will not injure the color. 

Bright Varnish Green, for Inside Blinds, Fenders, &c. — The 
work must first be painted over with a light lead color, and, when 
dry, grind some white lead in spirits of turpentine ; afterwards 
take about J in bulk of verdigris, which has been ground stiff in 
linseed oil ; then mix them both together, and put into a little 
resin varnish, sufficient only to bind the color. When this is hard, 
which will be the case in 15 minntes, pour into the color some 
resin to give it a good gloss. Then go over the work a second 
tim* and, if required, a third time. Thus you will have a cheap 
and beautiful green, with a high polish. It possesses very drying 
quality, as the work may be completed in a few hours. The tint 
may be varied according to ta3te,by substituting mineral green for 
verdigris ; and if a bright grass-green is required, add a little 
Dutch pink to the mixture. 

N.B.— This color must be used when quite warm,to give the var- 
nish an uniform extension. 

Compound Greens.— This is a mixture of whiting, indigo and 
Dutch pink, the intensity of which may be increased or diminished 
by the addition of blue or yellow. These mixtures will not admit 
of any fixed rules in regard to the quantities of the matters used 
in their composition. They must depend on the taste of the artist 
and the tone be is desirous of giving to the color. 

Pea Green. — Take one pound of genuine mineral green, one 
pound of the precipitate of copper, one pound and a half of blue 
verditer, three pounds of white lead, three ounces of sugar of lead, 
and three ounces of burnt white vitriol. Mix the whole of these 
ingredients in linseed oil, and grind them quite fine. It will produce 
a bright mineral pea-green paint, preserve a blue tint and keep any 
length of time in any climate, without injury, by putting water 
over it. To use this color for house or ship painting, take one 
pound of the green paint with' some pale boiled oil, mix them well 
together, and this will produce a strong pea-green paint. The 
tint may be altered at pleasure, by adding a proportionate quantity 
of white lead to the green, which may be ground in linseed oil, 



OABlNEfTMAKEltS; PAINTEBS; &0. BEOEIPtS. ll4o 






and thinned with spirits of turpentine for use. It tnay also be 
used for painting Venetian window blinds, by adding white lead 
and mixing the color with boiled oil. For all the aforesaid pre- 
parations it will retain a blue tint, which is very desirable. 

For Knotting. — One pint of vegetable naptha, 1 tea"T>oonful 
of red lead, i pint of japanners gold size, 7 ozs. of orange shellac, 
mix all together, set in a warm place to dissolve, and frequently 
shake. 

Another. — Mix white lead, or red lead powder, in strong glue 
size, and apply it warm. 

Beautiful Color for Garriaobs, Coaches, &o.— Mix Victoria 
lake with black japan. 

White Lead. — The most usual method of manufacturing white 
lead is that known as the Dutch method. It consists in exposing 
lead, cast in thin gratings, to the combined action of acetic acid 
moist air and carbonic acid gas. The gratings are supported a 
little above the bottom of earthen pots, similar to flower pots, in 
each of which a small quantity of weak acetic acid is placed. 
The pots are built up in alternate layers with spent tanners* bark, 
until a stack is formed, each layer of pots being covered with a 
board. Fermentation soon takes place in the tan, and serves the 
double purpose of generating heat and supplying carbonic acid. 
After the lapse of six or eight weeks, the metallic lead is found 
converted into white madses of carbonate mixed with bvdrated 
oxide. It is then levigated, washed, dried, and ground with oil. 

To Curb Damp Walls. — ^Boil 2 ozs. of grease with 2 quarts of 
tar, for nearly twenty minutes, in an iron vessel, and having ready 
pounded glass, 1 lb. ; slacked lime, 2 lbs. ; well dried in an iron pot 
and sifted through a flour seive; add some of the lime to the tar and 
glass, to make it the thickness of thin paste^ sufficient to cover a 
square foot at a tune^ as it hardens so quick. Apply it about an 
eighth of an inch thick. 

To Protect Wood and Brick work from Damp Weather. — 
Take 3 pecks of lime, slacked in the air, 2 pecks of wood ashes, 
and 1 peck of white sand. Sift them fine, and add linseed oil suffi- 
cient to use with a paint brush ; thin the first coat ; use it as thick 
as it will work for the second coat, grind it fine^ or beat it in a 
trough, and it is a good composition. 

Putty for Rep airing Broken Walls. — The best putty for walls 
is composed of equal parts of whiting and plaster ot Paris, as it 
quickly hardens. The walls may be immediately colored upon it. 
Some painters use whiting mixed with size ; but this is not good, 
as it rises above the surface of the walls, and shows in patches 
when the work is finished. Lime must not be used as a putty to 
'ftpair walls, as it will destroy almost every color it comes in con- 
tact with. 

Instructions for Sign Writing, with the Colors to be used 
FOR THE Ground and Letters. — On an oak ground, ornamental 
letters, in ultramarine blue, filled in with gold and silver leaf, 
blocked up and shaded with burnt sienna, Another. — Gold letters 
on a white marble ground, blocked up and shaded with a transpa- 
rent brown or burnt sienna. On ^^aw.— Gold letters, Bhaded YfiXh 



114(2 CABIMETMAKEBS, PAINTERS, &C., R£0£IFl*iJ. 



burat sienna. Another,—Goli letters, shftded with black, on a 
scarlet or chocolate ground. On a rich blue ground, gold letters, 
double shaded, black and white. White letters on a blue ground, 
shaded with black, look rery well. On a purple ground, pink let- 
ters shaded with white. Mix ultramarine and vermilion for a 
groiind color, v/hite letters shaded with a lijgbt grey. Vermilion 

{jround, chrome yellow, stained with vermilion and lake, for the 
etterti, shaded black. A substitute for the above colors : Hose 
pink ard red lead ; and for the letters^ stone yellow, white lead 
and Venetian red. A good substitute for gold is obtained by 
grinding white lead, chrome yellow, and a dust of vermilion to- 
gether. Mix your colors for writing in boiled oil, and use for drier 
gold size. Other good grounds for gold letters are ; blues, vermi- 
fion, lake, and Saxon. When your sign is ready for gilding^foUow 
the directions given under the head of "To Gild Letters on Wood.", 

To Givfi LusTBK TO A LiGHT Blub Ground.— After the letters 
ure written and dry, paint the ground over again, between the let- 
ters, with the same color, and while wet take pulverized Prussian 
blue und sift over the surface j glass, frost, or smalts may be used 
instead of or with the blue. When dry, brush off the loose par- 
ticles. ' 

To tlBMOVi: Old Paint.— Sal soda, 2 lbs. ; lime, i lb. ; hot water, 
1 gal. ; rummage all together and apply to the old paint while 
warm. It will soon loosen the paint so that you can easily remove 
it. Another simple method is to sponge over your old paint with 
benzine, set it on fire, and you can then fiance off the paint as 
quick as you like. Do not attempt to go over too much surface at 
a time, othetwise you might get more to do than you can attend 
to. 

Refuse Pawt and Paint Skins.— Dissolve sal soda, J lb., in 
rain water, 1 gal. : cover the refuce paint for 2 days, then heat it, 
adding oil to reduce it to a proper consistence for painting ana 
straining. 

Soluble GLass can be made on a small scale by fusing together 
in a crucible, 15 parts of sand with 8 parts carbonate of soda and 
1 part charcoal, not soluble in cold water, but dissolves in boiling 
water, yielding a strongly alkaline liquor. 

Black Walnut Stain. — Spirits of turpentine, 1 gal. ; pulverized 
oaphaltum, 2 lbs. ; dissolve in an iron kettle on a stove, stirring 
constantly. Oan be used over a red stain to imitate rosewood. 
To make a i)erfect black add a little lampblack. The addition of 
a little varnish with the turpentine improves it. 

Crystal Varnish, for Maps, &c.— Canada balsam, 1 oz. ; 
spirits of turpentine, 2 ozs. ; mix together. Before applying this 
varnish to a drawing or colored print, the paper should be placed on 
a stretcher, and sized with a thin solution of isinglass in water, and 
dried. Apply with a soft camels-hair brush. 

Tb Ebonizb Wood. — Mix up a strong stain of copperas and log- 
wood, to which add powdered nut-gall. Stain your wood with tbia 
„„i.,*:„.. A^ _„v J „ _M .^. French polish made 

stone blue. 
-Griud and mix wlutQ 




CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 114e 



soda, ^ lb., in 



lead in three-fourths of boiled oil uud one-foorth spirits of tur^oa- 
tine, and to give the mixture a very drying quality, add sufficient 
quantities of burnt white vitriol and sugar of lead. The color 
must be exceedingly thin, and put on the panes of glass with a 
large sized paint brush in as even a manner as possible. When a 
number of the panes are thus painted, take a dry duster quite new, 
dab the ends of the bristles on the glass in (]^uiok succession, till 
you give it an uniform appearance. Repeat this operation till the 
work appears very soft, and it will then appear like ground glass. 
When the glass requires fresh painting, get the old coat off first 
by using strong pearl-ash water. 

Another Method. —Spirits of salts, 2 ozs. ; oil of vitriol, 2 ozs. ; 
sulphate of copper, 1 oz. ; gum arable, 1 oz. ; mix all well together, 
and 4ab on the glass with a brush. 

Another. — Dab your squares regularly over with putty; when 
dry, go over them again ; the imitation will be complete. 

Painting on Glass. — Take clear rosin, 1 oz., melt in an iron 
vessel. When all is melted, let it cool a little, but not harden ; then 
add oil of turpentine sufficient to keep it in a liquid state. When 
cold, use it with colors ground in oil. 

Hard Drying Paint. — Grind Venetian red, or any other color 
you wish, in boiled oil ; then thin it with black japan. It will dry 
very hard for counter tops, &c. 

Spirit Graining for Oak. — Two pounds of whiting, quarter of 
a pound of gold size, thinned down with spirits of turpentine ; 
then tinge your whiting with Vandyke brown and raw sienna, 
gjround fine. Strike out your lights with a fitch dipped in turpen- 
tine, tinged with a little color to show the lights. If your lights 
do not appear clear, add a little more turpentine. Turpentine var- 
nish is a good substitute for the above mentioned. This kind of 
graining must be brushed over with beer, with a clean brush, be- 
fore varnishing. Strong beer must be used for glazing up top- 
graining and shading. 

Oil for Graining Oak. — Grind Vandyke brown in turpentine, 
add as much gold sizo as will set it, and as much soft soap as will 
make it stand the comb. Should it set too quickly, add a little 
boiled oil. Put a teaspoonful of gold size to half a pint of tur- 
pentine, and as much soap as will lie on a twenty-five cent piece, 
then take a little soda mixed with water and take out the veins. 

To PREPARE the Ground FOR Oak ROLLERS. — Stain your white 
lead with raw sienna and red lead, or with chrome yellow and 
Venetian red ; thin it with oil and turps, and strain for use. When 
the ground work is dry, grind in beer Vandyke brown, whiting and. 
a little burnt sienna, for the graining color ; or you may use raw 
sienna with a little whiting, umbers, &c. 

To Imitate Old Oak. — To make an exceedingly rich color for 
the imitation of old oak, the ground is a composition of stone ochre 
or orange chrome and burnt sienna ; the graining color is burnt 
umber or Vandyke brown, to darken it a little. Observe that the 
above colors must be used whether the imitation is in oil or dis- 
temper. When dry, varnish. 

To Imitate Old Oak, in Oil.— Grind Vandyke and whiting in 



ii 



I 



1 



I: si 



\ 



!| 



114/ ^OABtNETMAKERS,'PAlNTERS,''&0., RECEIPTS. 

turpentine, add a bit of common soap to make it stand the comb]i 
and thin it with boiled oil. | 

To Imitath Pollard Oak. — The ground colot is prepared with 
a mixture of chrome yellow, vermilion, and white lead, to a rich' 
light bufif. The graining colors are Vandyke brown and small 
portions of raw and burnt sienna and lake ground in ale or beer. 
Fill a large tool with color, spread over the surface to be grained,' 
and soften with the badger hair brush. Take a moistened spon^e^ 
between the thumb and finger, and dapple round and round m| 
kind of knobs, then soften very lightlv ; then draw a softener 
from one set of knobs to the other while wet, to form a multi-' 
plicity of grains, and finish the knots with a hair pencil, in some: 
places in thicker clusters than others. When drjr put the top 
grain on in a variety of directions, and varnish with turps and 
gold size ; then glaze up with Vandyke and strong ale. To finish, 
varnish with copal. | 

To iMiTATfi Mottled Mahogakt. — The ground is prepared 
with the best English Venetian red, red lead, and a small portion 
of white lead. The graining colors are burnt sienna, ground in' 
ale, with a small portion oi Vandyke brown, sufficient to take 
away the fiery appearance of the sienna. Cover the surface to be 
grained, soften with the badger hair brush, and while wet take a 
miottling-roller and go over the lights a second time, in order to 
give a variety of shade, then blend the whole of the work with 
the badger softener. Put the top grain on with the same color. 
When dry, varnish. 

To Imitate Rosewood. — Mix vermilion and a small quantity of 
white lead for the ground. Take rose pink, tinged with a little 
lampblack, or Vandyke brown, &n(* grind very fine in oil, then 
take a flat graining brush, with the hairs cut away at unequal 
distances, and cut down the grain as if wending round a knot. 
When nearly dry, take a graining comb that is used for oak, and 
draw down the gram. This will give it the appearance of nature. 
When dry, varnish. 

Another. — This ground color is prepared with vermilion and 
small quantities of white lead and crimson lake. When the 
ground is dry and made very smooth, take Vankyke brown, ground 
in oil, and with a small tool spread the color over the surface in 
different directions forming kind of knots. Before the work is dry, 
take a piece of leather, and with great freedom strike out the light 
veins ; having previously prepared the darkest tint of Vandyke 
brown, or gum asphaltum, immediately take the flat graining brush 
with few hairs in it, draw the grain over the work and soften, 
When varnished the imitation will be excellent. 

Another Rosewood Imitation in Size. — Mix Venetian red, 
white lead powder, vermilion and common size, the consistency of 
which, when cold, must be that of a weak trembling jelly. With 
this composition paint the work twice over. When the ground is 
dry^ take some lamp black, finely ground in beer, and beat the 
white of an egg into it, take the flat graining brush, dipped in the 
black, and put on the grain. When dry, stain the first coat of 



nd the comb/l 

prepared with 
Bad, to a rich 
^n and small 
in ale or beer, 
to be grained,' 
stened sponge 
and round lu; 
,w a softener 
form a multi- 
incil, in some^ 
y put the top 
ith turps and 
ale. To finish, 

I 
1 is prepared 
, small portion 
na, ground ivf 
icient to take 
e surface to be 
ile wet take a 
le, in order to 
the work with 
he same color. 

all quantity of 
i with a little 
le in oil, then 
ay at unequal 
round a knot, 
d for oak, and 
tnce of nature. 

vermilion and 
e. When the 
jrown, ground 
the surface in 
le work is dry, 
e out the light 

; of Vandyke 
graining brush 

£ and soften, 

Venetian red, 
consistency of 
jelly. With 
the ground is 
and beat the 
, dipped in the 
first coat of 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., REOEIPTS. 114^ 

varnish with Tose pink, finely ground in turpentine, and finish the 
work by giving it a coat of clear varnish. 

To Imitate Bird's byb Maplb.— The ground is a light buff, 
prepared with white lead, chrome yellow, and a little vermilion or 
English Venetian red, to take off the rawness of the yellow. The 
graining color is equal parts of raw umber and sienna ground in 
oil to the proper consistency. Spread the surface of the work with 
this color, and, having some of the same prepared a little thicker, 
immediately take a sash tool or sponge, and put on the dark 
shades, ana soften with the badgers nair brush ; before the color is 
dry put on the eyes by dabbing the dotting machine on the work. 
When dry, put on the grain with the camels-hair pencil on the 
prominent parts, to imitate the small hearts of the wood. When 
dry. varnisn. 

To Imitate Ccrlbd Maple, — Prepare a light yellow for the 

f round, by mixing chrome yellow and white lead, tinged with 
enetian red. The graining color is a mixture of equal portions of 
raw sienna and Vandyke, ground in ale, spread the surface to be 
grained in an even manner ; then with a piece of cork rub across 
the work to and fro, to form the grains which run across the wood ; 
soften and, when dry, lightly top-grain with the same color. When 
dry. varnish. 
CfuRLBD Maplb in Oil for OuxsroB Work. — Prepare a rich 

f round by mixing chrome yellow, white lead and burnt sienna, 
or the graining color, grind equal parts of raw sienna and umber, 
with a little burnt copperas in turpentine, and mix with it a small 
quantity, of grainers cream. Thin the color with boiled oil ; then 
till a tool and spread the surface even, and rub out the lights with 
the sharp edge of a piece of buff leather, which must now and 
then be wiped to keep it clean ; soften the edges of the work very 
lightly, and when dry, put on the top ^rain with burnt umber and 
raw sienna, ground in ale, with the white of an egg beat into it. 
When dry varnish. 

t^ Satinwood, — This ground is prepared with white lead, stone- 
ochre, an(^ small quantities of chrome yellow and burnt sienna. 
The graining color is one-third of raw sienna and whiting, ground 
in pale ale, very thin ; then spread the color over the surface to 
be grained. While wet, soften, and have ready a wet roller or 
mottling brush, in order to take out the lights ; blend the whole 
with the badger hair brush. When the work is dry, take the flat 
brush, and with the same color, put on the top grain. When dry, 
varnish. 

; To Imitate Yew Tree. — The ground is a reddish buff. For the 
graimVg color grind in ale equal portions of vandyke brown and 
burnt sienna, with a small quantity of raw sienna. When the 
ground is dry, spread the surface even with the color, and soften ; 
then with a piece of cork with a sharp edge, rub the work cross 
arid cross in order to form the fine gram, as in curled maple, and 
soften the same way of the grain. When dry, dip the tip of your 
fingers in the graining color to form the eyes or knots, and put In 
|the small touches with a^camelsthai^ pencil. When dry, put ojj 
the top" grain raridIvgbei i^this^ *dTy7^ 



.' ' 



ill 



114^ CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 1 

To iMiTATa Blaok akd Goi>d HARBiiic.--Thla description of 
marble is now in great demand. The ground is a deep jet black, 
or a dead color, in gold size, drop black and turps : second coat, 
black iapan. Ooniraence veining ; mix white and yellow ochre with 
a small quantity of vermilion to give a gold tinge ; dip the pencil 
in this color, and dab on the ground with great freedom som« large 
patches, from which small threads must be drawn in various direc- 
tions. In the deepest parts of tlie black, a white vein is sometitnes 
seen running with a great number of small veins attached to it : 
but care must bo taken that these threads are connected with, and 
run in some degree in the same direction with the thicker veins. 
If d''~ability is not an object, and the work is required in a short 
time, it raa^ bo executed very quick in distemper colors, and when 
varnished, it will look well, 

Rko Marble.— For the ground, put on a white tinged with lako 
or vermilion ; then apply deep rich reds in patches, filling up tho 
intermediate spaces with brown and white mixed in oil ; then 
blend them together ; if in quick drying colors^ use about half 
turps and gold oize. When dry, varnish ; and while the varnish is 
wet, put in a multitude of fine white threads^ crossing the whole 
work in all directions, as the wet varnish brings the pencil to a 
fine point. 

Jaspbr Marble. — Put on a white ground lightlv tinged with 
blue ; then put on patches of rich reds or rose pink, leaving spaces 
of the white grounds ; then partly cover those spaces with various 
browns to form fossils, in places running veins ; then put in a few 
spots of white in the centre of some of the red patches, and leaving 
in places masses nearly all white. When dry, use the clearest var- 
nish. 

Blub ani> Gold Marble.— For the ground put on a light blue ; 
then lake blue, with a small piece of white lead and some 
dark commoa blue, and dab on the ground on patches, leaving 
portions of the ground to shine between ; then blend tne edges 
together with a duster or softener; afterwards draw on some white 
veins in every direction, leaving large open spaces to be filled up 
with a pale yellow or gold-paint ; finish with some fine white rurN 
ning threads, and a coat of varnish at last. 

To IMITATE Granite. — For the ground color, stain your white 
lead to a light lead colorj with lamp black and a little rose pink. 
Throw on Waok spots, with a graniting machine, a pale red, and 
fill up with white before the ground is dry. 

Another. — A black ground, when half dry, throw in vermilion, 
a deep yellow and white spots. 

To IMITATE Hair Wood. — For the ground-color, take white lead 
and thin it with turpentine, and slightly stain it with equal quan- 
tities of Prussian blue and lamp black. For the graining color, 
grind in ale a mixture of Prussian blue and raw sienna ; when 
the ground is dry, spread a transparent coat of the graining color 
on the surface of the work, and soften ; then with the cork, mottle 
by rubbing it to and fro across the work to form the fine long 
grtun or mottle. When this is done, soften and top grain in f\ 
wavy but perpendicular directions ; varnish when dry, 



CABINETMAKERS, rAIOTEKS, AC? , RECEITTn. llJi 



in vermilion. 



enna : when 



ScuTiTUTi roR Wbitb LiAix.-'SQlpbAte ol barytoii ground in 
oil and applied like paint U can also bo used to r««rae« white 
lead to any desired extent. 

Paint vor Black Boaboi nt ScHOOLS.-^Gonaton glttO,i4oB. ; ^our 
of emerj, 3 oz. ; and just lampblack enough to giro an inky oolor to 
the preparation. Dissolve the p[lue m ) qt. of warm water, put in 
the lompblack and emery, sttr till there are no lunps, then 
apply to the board with a woollen rag smoothly T*i\\9d. Three 
coats are amply sufBcient. 

Compound Irow Paint— -Pintly pnlrerieed iron filmgfl, 1 part; 
brick dust, 1 part; and ashes, 1 part Pour ov< r them gine^water 
or size, set the whole near the fire, and, when wurm, atir them well 
together. With this paint cover all the wood work which may bo 
in danger; when dry, give a aecond coat, and the wood will be 
rendered incombustiole. 

BisT Wash for Barns and^ HoDSE8.-»-Water Umd, l^peok ; freshly 
slaked lame, I peck; yellow ochre in powder, 4 lbs. ; burnt um- 
ber, 4 lbs. To be dissolved in hot wf>/i.«r, and applied with a brush. 

DuBABLB Odtsidb Paint.— Take 2 parts (in bulk > of water lime, 
ground fine : I part ( in bulk ) of white lead, in oil. Mix tbom 
thoroughly, by adding best boiled linseed oil, enough topretiare it 
(o pass through a paint-mill ; after which, temner with oil till It 
can be applied with a common pamt-brush. Make any color to 
suit. It will last 3 times as lon^ as lead paint. ' It is SupaRioB. 

Farmers' Paint. — Farmers will find the fioilowiag pcofitabile for 
house or fence ;^aint : skim milk, two quarts ; fresh slacked licno 
8 oz. ; lisseed oil, 6 oz. ; white Burgtindy pitch, 2 oz..; Spaai^ 
white, 3 lbs. The lime l^ to be slaeEed in water, eipesed to tho 
air, and then mixed with about one-fourth of the milk; tite oil in 
which the piteh is dissolved to be added, a little at « time, then 
the rest of the milk, and afterwards the Spanish white. This is 
sufficient for twenty-aeven yards, 2 coats. This is for whito paint. 
If desirable, any other color may be produced ; thos, if a eream 
color is desired, m place of part of the 8paaiah white use tbo 
ochre alone. 

Paintinq in Milk.— Skimmed milk, i gallon, newly slacked 
lime, « 02. ; and 4 oz. of poppy, linseed, or nut oil ; and 3 lbs. Span- 
ish white. Put the lime into an earthen vessel or clean bucket ; 
and having poured on it a sufficient quantity of milk to eaake it 
about the thickness of cream, add the dl in small quaatii^e, a 
little at a time, stirring the mixture well. Then put in the rest of 
the milk, afterwards the Spanish white finely powdered, or any 
other desired color. For out-door work add 2 oz. each more of oil 
and slacked lime, and 2 oz. of Burgundy pitch dissolved in the oil 
by a gentle heat. 

Prbmidm Paint without Oil or Lkad. — Slack stone4ime with 
boiling water in a tub or barrel to keep in the steam ; then pass fl 
quarts through a fine sieve. Now to this quantity add 1 quart of 
coarse salt, and 1 gallon of water ; boil the mixture, and skim it 
clear To every 5 gallons of this skimmed mixture, add 1 lb. alum ; 
^ lb. copperas ; and by slow degrees I lb. potash, and 4 quarts 
sifted ashos or tine sand ; add any coloring desired. A more dwf^ 
tie paint was never made. 



lii 



!ll 



116 OABIKETMAKERd;, J^kTSnM, A^.^ftECSIPTS. 

GRiiy Pautt ton Gardht Stands, Blikds, ito.— Take mineral 
green, and white lead ground In turpentine; mix up the quantity you 
wish with a small quantity of turpentine varnith. This Bcrves for 
the first coat. For the second, put as much yarnish in your mix- 
ture as Till produce a good gloss. If you desire a brighter green, 
add a litt^ Prussian blue, which will much improve the color. 

Milk Paikt, vor Barnb, any Color.— Mix water lime with skim 
milk, to a proper consistence to apply with a brush, and it is ready 
to use. It will adhere well to wood, whether smooth or roush, to 
brick, mortar, or stone, where oil has not been used (in which case 
it cleaves to some extent), and forms a very hard substance, aa 
durable as the best oil paint. It is too cheap to estimate, an d any one 
can put it on who can use a brush. Any color may be given to it, 
bv using colors of the tinge desired. If a red is preferred, mix 
Venetian-red with milk, not using any lime. It looks well for 
fifteen years. 

Paint. — To Makb without Lead or Oil.— Whiting, 6 Ibs.^ 
skimmed milk, 2 ots. ; fresh slacked lime, 2 oz. Put the lime into 
a stoneware vessel, pour upon it a sufficient quantity of the milk 
to make a mixture resembling cream ; the balance of the milk is 
then to be added ; and lastly, the whiting is to be crumbled upon 
the surface of the fluid, in wnich it gradually sinks. At this period 
it must be well stirred in or ground, as you would other paint, and 
It is fit for use. 

Transparbnt Paintino on Window Shadis. — The muslin is 
spread on a frame and secured tightly with tacks, then sized with 
a mixture of fine flour paste, white glue^ and white bar soap ; the 
soap renders the muslin pliable ana soft. A thin coat is applied, 
which is nearljjr invisible when dry. A coat of pure linseed oil, 
diluted with spirits of turpentine, is then applied to the whole, or a 
part, as desired : lay it on quickly and smoothly, to ensure an even 
transparent surface. The colors used are, ivory black, ultramarine, 
Paris green, sienna, umber, verdigris, asphaltum, or other suitable 
colors. An outline of the design is drawn with a small pencil 
with black or umber, after which the colors may be applied, more 
or less diluted, as more or less transparency is desired. In general, 
the brightest colors should be applied first, and the darker shades 
over them. These colors must be laid evenly and smoothly with 
soft brushes, and should anv part be made too dark, the best way 
is to scrape off with a stick before the color gets too dry. The best 
designs for shades consist of landscape views, and should always 
be designed to accommodate the form and position of the ground on 
which they are drawn. Stencils will be found useful on this, work, 
in making corners or stripes for borders. 

To USB Smalts.— For a gold lettered sign, lay out on a lead color 
or white surface the line of letters, and roughly size the shape of 
each letter with fat oil size. This must be allowed at least 12 
hours to get tacky and ready for gilding. After the gold leaf is 
laid and perfectly dry, mix up (for blue smalt") Prussian blue and 
keg lead with oil, adding a little dryer. Outlme carefully around 
the letters, and fill up all the outside with blue paint ; then with a 
small sieve sift on the smalts, allowing the sign to lay horizon- 
tally. Coyer eyery part with plenty of smalts, and allow it to 



;m previoi 



OABINXTHAKERfi, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 117 



remaih tinmolested until tho paint is dry. Then carefully shake 
off the surplus smalts, and tu<^ work is done. 

To Paint Maoio Lamtbrn Slidis. — Transparent coIo.b only are 
used for this work, such as lakes, sap-gp-een, ultramarine, verdiffris, 
gamboffe, as^haltum^ &c., mixea in oil, and tempered with light 
colorea yamish (white Demar). Draw on the paper the design 
desired, and stick it to the glass with water or gnm ; then with a fine 
pencil put the outlines on the opposite side of the glass with the 
proper colors ; then shade or fill up with black or randyke brown, 
as you find best. 

SiLVBR Polish Kalsomtni.- Take 7 lbs. of Paris white and J lb. 
of li^ht colored glue Set the glue in a tin vessel contaiiing 3 pts. 
of water; let it stand overnight to soak. Then put it in a kettle 
of boiling water over the fire, stirring till it is well dissolved and 
quite thin. Then, after putting the Paris white into a large water- 
mil, pour on hot water and stir it till it appears like thick milk. 
Now mingle the glue liquid with the whiting, stir it thoroughly 
and apply with a whitewash-brush, or a large paint brusu. 

Mabinb Paint for Metals in Salt Water. — Red lead, 6a parts : 
quicksilver, 30 parts ; thick turpentine, 7 parts. Mix wit ^ boiled 
linseed oil to the proper consistencjr. The quicksilver must be 
thoroughly amalgamated with the thick turpentine by grinding or 
rubbing, and this mixture must be ground with the red lead and 
more boiled oil. As little oil as is necessary to make the paint lay 
well must be used. To make the paint adhere more firmly, a 
previous coat of oxide of iron paint may be used. 

To Imitate Tortoise Shell. — Paint a ground of salmon color : 
then when dry and smoothed off, coat it over with rose pink, mixed 
in varnish and turpentine ; then with a flat piece of glass, press on 
the surface, and remove the glass quickly, being careful not to 
push it over the paints so as to disturb the curious figures which 
the pressure will form thereon. Varnish when dry, and ypu will 
find you have a beautiful imitation of tortoise shell. 

Banner Painting. — Lay out the letters very accurately with 
charcoal or crayon, then saturate the cloth with water to render the 
painting easy. On large work a Bten«il will be found useful. Take 
a piece of tin, lay the straight edge to the mark, brush over with a 
sash tool, and bv this means ^ou will make a very clean-edged 
letter. Use stiff bristle pencils in painting on canvas. 

Oil Cloth Painting. — To paint canvas for floors, the canvas 
should first be saturated with glue-water or flour paste, and 
allowed to dry first. Then paint it with any color aesired. To 
put in the figures, cut oiit designs in tin plates or stiff paper, and 
stencil them on in various colors. 

To Imitate Marble. — For white marble, get up a pure white 
ground, then hold a lighted candle near the surface, ana allow the 
smoke to form the shades and various tints desired. This will 
make a very handsome imitation. Black marble imitation is made 
by streaking a black surface with colors, using a feather and pencil. 
Another plan is to get up a smooth black surface ; then take the 
colors, green, yellow, red, white, &c., ground thick in gold size, 
and streak the surface with a stick or pencil. Allow it to dry, and 
appl/ A heavy coai of lampblack and yellow ochre, mixed with 



118 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., REOIEPTS. 

rough stuff. When all is hard, rub down to a level surface with 
lump pumice stone, varnish, and a beautiful variegated marble will 
be the result. 

GiLDiNQ AND ORNAMENTixa Gabriaoes. — English gold size Is the 
best for this purpose. If ^ou cannot get it ready prepared, m .ke a 
substitute by using English varnish and japan in enual parts. If 
the gilding is for striping, you should mut a little chr'^me yellow 
with it, to be able to see the lines the better, but for lettering no 
coloring is requ'red. Rub your job down smoothly, take a piece of 
muslin and tie up in it a little whitening to form a " pounce bag;" 
with this dust over every part of the work wliere the gold leaf is to 
be put, to prevent the leai sticking to the surface not covered by 
the siae, or wash the job over with stat^eh water, or rub it over witn 
the raw surface of a potatoe cut in halves ; the juice of the potatoe 
Boon dries, and leaves a thin film to which the gold will not adhere. 
Either of the above methods will do, and the coating will wash oflF 
when the gilding is dry. The surface prepared, take the size and 
put on the stripes, figures, or ornaments, and allow it to dry just 
enough to enable you to pass your finger over it without sticking, 
but if it is " tacky" when you, place your finger upon it, it is 
ready for the gold leaf, whicn is to be? applied in the way directed 
for gilding letters on wood. The gold letters may be shaded with 
ultramarine, carmine, asphaltum, lake, Paris green verdigris, &c. 
jto suit the taste. 

Bronzing.— Gold bronze is used on carriage parts for striping 
and ornamenting, using the same size as that used ibr gold leaf. 
For taking up and applying the bronze, take a piece of plush or 
velvet and make a " pounce bag, " -by tying up a wad of cotton, 
rubbing the bronze gently over the size. To vary the appearance, 
a mixture of copper, gold, and silver bronze may be applied. For 
fancy work in bronze,cut out any desired pattern on thin sheet brass, 
pasteboard,, or paper, and apply it to any nearly dry varnished 
8urfr ,j; rub the bronze on through the apertures in the pat- 
tern. 

Good Colors for Businesb Waggons.—No. 1. Body. — Chrome 
green ; frame or ribs, black, striped with Avhite or cream color. 
Jiunning gear. — Cream color, striped with red, blue or dark green, 
or black, and red fine line. No. 2. Body. — Yellow ; frama black, 
Btriped with blue or white. Running gear. — ^Light vermilion, striped 
witn black and white. No. 3. Body. — Carmme glaze over Indian 
red. Running gear. — Vermilion. No. 4. Body. — Deep vermilion. 
Running gear. — Light vermilion. 

Mixture to rbmovb old Paint.— Dissolve 1 lb. potash in 3 pts. 
•water over the fire, then add' yellow ochre or some common dry 
paint until it is as thick as rough stuff ; spread this over your old 
paint, and after a little it will come off quite easily, then wash the 
wood with soap and water to remove all the potash, dry off and 
sand-paper, then give a coat of clean raw oil. Another method is lo 
heat c heavy piece of iron and apply to the paint, which will cause 
it to become loose and soft, so that it may be scraped oft" with a 
knife. Still another method is to direct the flame of a spirit lamp 
(which may be constructed for the purpose) on the old paint, 
scraping it off as it softens. 



I I 



OIEPTS. 

vel surface with 
;ated marble will 

b gold size is the 
arepared, m' ke a 
enuai parts. If 
i chrome yellow 
for lettering no 
', take a piece of 
I " pounce bag;" 
he gold leaf is to 
I not covered bv 
•rub it over with 
ce of the potatoe 
will not adhere, 
ing will wash oflF 
ake the size and 
w it to dry just 
without sticking, 
?r upon it, it is 
the way directed 
be shaded with 
n verdigris, &c. 



irts for stripin 

2d for gold lea; 

piece of plush or 

wad of cotton, 

the appearanoe, 

e applied. For 

thin sheet brass, 

dry varnished 

es in the pat- 

?o<fy. — Chrome 
I or cream color. 

or dark green, 

; frama black, 
irmilion, striped 
laze over Indian 

►eep vermilion. 

[potash in 3 pts. 
le common dry 
over your old 
then wash the 
[sh, dry off and 
ler method is io 
[hichwill cause 
Iped off with a 
\f a spirit lamp 
Ithe old paint, 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 119 

To Bleach Oil.— Pour ap much linseed oil into a shallow earthen 
vessel as will stand one inch deep, then pour in 6 inches of water, 
cover with a fine cloth, and let the whole stand in the sun for a 
few weeks until the liquid becomes thick, when it should be poured 
into a phial and submitted to a gentle heat ; after which the clear 
is to be poured off aud strained through a flannel cloth. 

'Jo Copy an Uhnament. — Place the paper or other article 
containing the ornament against a pane of glass ; then laying a 
pieet of thin paper over it, \ou can copy it exactly with a lead 
vi'jicil. 

OuNAMENTS, in the shape of decalcomine^ or other gilded pic- 
tures, may be easily transferred to carnages or coaches by following 
the directions given in trauslcrriug pictures to glass. 

Vermilion, — To prevent vermilion from fading, add to the drv 
colorj b<.-tore mixing, ^ part of flour of sulphur. Light English 
vermilion is used for striping, ornamenting or lettering ; the deep 
vermilion having less bod>, will not cover good. English vermi- 
lion gives the best color o'! va; : mge work when mixed with rubbing 
varnish and oil. A merican \ orra ilion should not be ground hs the pro- 
cess would change it to an orange color ; while green,' > o.jihu red, 
chrome-yellow, aud all heavy body colors are all the better for being 
ground as fine as possible. Raw oil is preferable to boiled, as it is 
mote volatile, and penetrates and fills the pores of the wood better. 

l^RiMiNG FOR Caruiagk Work. — J!<trst coat of lead. Mu v.^^ite 
Jead with raw oil, 2 parts, japan, 1 part, to make it propei foi t 
thick coat, adding a very little turpentine to make it work t-abily , 
For carriage parts add a little Indian black, but not for bo iwvt 
Second coat of lead. Mix white lead Avith 1 part raw oil and 2 pa rift 
japan, and a little turpentine, as before, adding lauipbi'ack for car- 
riage ))arts> but none for the body. Third and fourth coat. Mix v. hi;e 
lead into a thick paste with turpentine, add a little oil, japan ar.d 
rubbing varnish to bind the paint well ; add, for the carnnge parts. 
II little lampblack and a little red lead. 

Hard drying Potty. — For carrnifje tvork.- — Mix dry white lead 
with japAn and rubbing varnish equal vaits, to the proper Voi.'sist- 
ency, beating it with a small mallet to bjuise the lumps. Keep it, 
when not in use, in water, to prevent i» drying. 

Rouoa Stuff. — For carriage worA.—Take 3 parts of English 
filling (ground state), 2 parts dry white lead, 1 part white lead in 
oil. Mix with japan, 2 parts, rubbing varnish, 1 part. Mix and 
crush thoroughly by running all through the mill together. 

Faqing Lead for Carriage Work.— Mix dry white^lead with 2 
parts japan, 1 part rubbing varnish, and thin with spirJls of turpen- 
tine, adding a little lampblack to make a clean lead color, and run 
all through the mill. 

Coach Painting.— The panels of such work are generally painted 
in color, while the pillars, top strip, quarters, deck, &c., are always 
black ;' umber colors, lakes, greens, aud blues are some of the best 
colors used on this work. To prepare the body for any of these 
colors, a ground color ia used in the place of lampblack on black 
work. The following are a tew approved grounds. Lake.— In^mn 
red and vermilion mixed to a dark brown, but some prefer a black 
ground for lake.'"' Ultramarine. — Mix a medium blue with white lead 






120 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, REOEIPTS. 



and Prussian blue. Vermilion,— -A light pink color is generally used 
as a ground for vermilion. Green. — Green and all heavy-bodied 
colors will cover well on the lead colors without any ground color. 

Fish-Oil Paints. — Dissolve white vitriol and litharge, of each 
14 lbs., in vinegar, 32 gals. ; add whale, seal, or cod oil, 1 tun, and 
boil to dryness, continually stirring during the ebullition. The 
next day, decant the clear portion ; add linseed oil, 12 gals. ; oil 
of turpentine, 3 gals., and mix well together. The sediment left la 
well agitated with half its quantity of lime-water, used for some 
inferior paints under the name of *^ prepared residue oil." This oil 
is used for various common purposes, as a substitute for linseed 
oil, of which the following paints are examples : — Pale Green.-^ 
Lime-water, 6 gals. ; whiting and road-dust, of each, 1 cwt. j 
blue-black, 30 lbs. ; yellow ochre, 28 lbs. ; wet blue (previously 
ground in prepared residue oil), 20 lbs. ; grind well together. 
For use, thin with equal parts of prepared residue on and 
linsecd-oil. 2. Bright Green. — Yellow ochre and wet blue, of 
each, i cwt. ; road-dust, l\ cwt ; blue-black, 10 lbs.; lime water, 
6 gals. ; prepared fish-oil, 4 gals. ; prepared residue and linseed oils, 
of each, 7J gals. 3. Lead Color. — Whiting, 1 cwt. ; blue black, 7 
lbs.; white lead ( ground in oil), 28 lbs.; road-dust, 56 lbs.; limo 
water, 5 gals. ; prepared residue oil, 2^ gals. 4. Reddish Brown. — 
Lime-water, 8 gals. ; Spanish-brown, 1 cwt. ; road-dust, 2 cwt. ; 
prepared fish, prepared residue and linseed oils, of each, 4 gals. 6. 
Yellow. — Substitute ochre for Spanish-brown in the last receipt. 
6. Black. — Substitute lamp or blue black for Spanish-brown in 
No. 4. 7. Stone Color. — Lime-water, 4 gals.; whiting, 1 cwt.: 
white-lead (ground in oil), 28 lbs, ; road-dust, 56 lbs. ; prepared 
fish, linseed, and prepared residue oils, of each, 3 gals. 8. Choco- 
late. — No. 4 and 6 mixed together so as to form a chocolate-color. 
Remarks.— AXi the above paints require a little "drier." They aro 
well fitted, by their cheapness, hardness, and durablHty, for com- 
mon out-door work. 

Porcelain Finish, very Hard and Whitb, for Paelors.— To 
prepare the wood for the finish, if it be pine, give one or two coata 
of the" Varnish — Transparent for Wood," which prevents the pitch 
from oozing out, causing the finish to turn yellow ; next, give the 
room at least four coats of pure zinc, which may be ground in only 
sufficient oil to enable it to grind properly ; then mix to a proper 
consistence with turpentine or napntha. Give each coat time to dry. 
When it is drjr and hard, sand-paper it to a perfectly smooth sur- 
face, when it is ready to receive the finish, which consists of two 
coats of French zinc ground in, and thinned with Demar-varnish, 
until it works properly under the brush. 

Japan Drier, Best Quality. — Take linseed oil, 1 gal. ; put into 
it gum shellac, ^ lb. ; litharge and burned Turkey umber, each J 
lb. ; red lead, ^ lb.; sugar of lead, 6 oz. Boil in the oil till all are dis- 
solved, which will require about four hours ; remove from the fire, 
and stir in spirits of turpentine, 1 gal., and it is done. 

Another. — Linseed oil, 5 gals. ; add red lead and litharge, each 
3i lbs. ; raw umber, li lbs. ; sugar of lead and sulphate of zinc, 
each, J lb. ; pulverize all the articles together, and boil in the oij 
till diissolved ; when a little oool, thin with turpentine, 5 j^als, 



zin 
wh 



CARINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 121 



irge, of each 



Drying Oil bqual to Patent Drwrs at Onk Quabtbr thbirPricb. 
—Linseed oil, 2 gals. ; red lead and umber, eacbj 4 oz. ; sulphate of 
zinc, 2 oz. ; sugar of lead, 2 oz. Boil until it will scorch a feather, 
when it is ready for use. 

Frbpared Oil for Carriages, &c. — To 1 gal.lineeed oil add 2 lbs. 
gum shellac ; litharge, J^ lb. ; red lead, { Id. ; umber, 1 oz. Boil 
slowly as usual until the gums are dissolved ; grind your paints 
in this (any color)^ and reduce with turpentine. Yellow ochre is 
used in floor pamtmg. 

Drying Oils. — l.Nut or linseed oil, 1 gal.-, litharge, 12 oz. ; supnr 
of lead and white vitriol, of each 1 oz. ; simmer and skim unHi n 
pellicle forms ; cool, and, when settled, decant the clear. 2. Oil 
1 gal. : litharge, 12 to 16 oz. ; as last. 3. Old nut or linseed oil, 1 
pint; litharge, 3 oz. Mix ; agitate occasionally for 10 dcys ; then 
decant the dear. 4. Nut oil and water, of each 2 lbs. ; white vit- 
riol, 2 oz. ; boil to dryness. 5. Mix oil with powdered snow or 
ice, and keep it for 2 months without thawing. 

To RBDUCB Oil Paint with Watbr. — 'Take 8 lbs. of pure un- 
slacked lime, add 12 qts. water, stir it and let it settle, tu^n it off 
ge itly and bottle it, keep it corked till used. This will mix with 
oil, and in proportion of half will render paint more durable. 

Oil Paint. — To reduce with Water. — Gum shellac, 1 lb. ; bgI- 
soda, i lb. ; water, 3 parts ; boil all together in a kettle, stirring till 
dissolved. If it does not all dissolve, add a little more sal-soda ; 
when cool, bottle for use ; mix up 2 quarts of oil paint as usual, 
any color desired, using no turpentine ; put 1 pint of the gum 
shellac mixture with the oil paint when it becomes thick ; it can then 
be reduced with water to a proper thickness to lay on with a brush. 

Another Method. — Soft water, 1 gal. ; dissolve in it pearlash, 3 
oz. ; bring to a boil, and slowl^p* add shellac, 1 lb. ; when cold, it is 
ready +0 be added to oil paint in equal proportions. 

How to Build Gravel Houses. — This is the best building ma- 
terial in the world. It is four times cheaper than wood, six tknes 
cheaper than stone, and superior to either. Proportions for mixing : 
to eight barrows ot slacked lime, well deluged with water, add 15 
barrows of sand ; mix these to a creamy consistency, then add 60 
barrows ot coarse grarel, which must be worked well and com- 
pletely ; you can then throw stones into this mixture, of any shape 
or size, up to ten inches in diameter. Form moulds for the walls of 
the house by fixing boards horizontally against upright standards, 
which must be immovably braced so that they will not yield to the 
immense pressure outwards as the material settles ; set the stand- 
ards in pairs around the building where the walls are to stand, 
from six to eight feet apart, and so wide that the inner space shall 
form the thickness of the wall. Into the moulds thus formed throw 
in the concrete material as fast as ;^ou choose, and the more pro- 
miscuously the better. In a short time the gravel will get as hard 
as the solid rock. 

Flexible Paint for Canvas.— Yellow soap, 2J lbs.; boiling 
water, 1^ gals. ; dissolve ; grind the solution while hot with ffood 
oil paint, 1^ cwt. 

Painter's Cream.— Pale nut oil, 6 oz. ; mastic, 1 oz. ; dissolve; 
add of sugar of l«ad \ •>., previously ground in the least possibU 



122 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

quantity of oil ; then add ot water q. s. gradually, until it acquires ' 
the consistency of cream, working it well all tne time. Used to 
cover the unfinished work of painters. It will wash off with water. 

Paints, Different Sorts. — Blum. — Blue-black, 25 lbs. : whiting, 
lOD lbs.; road dust, sifted, 200 lbs. ; lime-water, 12 gallons. Facti- 
tious linseed oil to grind. 

White Pai.*t.— Whiting, 500 lbs. ; white lead, 400 lbs. ; lime- 
water, 20 gallons. Factitious linseed oil to grind. 

Black Paint. — Jvory or lampblack, 100 lbs. ; road-dust, sifted, 
200 lbs. ; lime water, 18 gallons. Oil to grind. 

Brown Paint. — Venetian red, or Spanish brown, 1 cwt. ; red-dust, 
3 cwt. ; common soot, 28 lbs. ; lime-water, 15 lbs. Factitious lin- 
seed oil to grind. 

Paris Gbken. — Take unslacked lime of the best quality, slack it 
with hot water ; then take the finest part of the powder, and add 
alum-water as strong as it can be made, sufficient to form a thick 
paste ; then color it with bichromate of potash and sulphate of 
copper until the color suits your fancy, and dry it for use. N.B. 
— The sulphate of copper gives a blue tinge; the bichromate of 
potash, a yellow. Observe this, and you will get it right. 

Beautifdii Grbbn Paint for Walls.— Take 4 lbs. Roman vitriol, 
and pour on it a tea-kettle full of boiling water. When dissolved, 
add 2 lbs. pearlash, and stu: the mixture well with a stick'until the 
effervescence ceases ; then add i lb. pulverized yellow arsenic, and 
stir the whole together. Lay it on with a paint brush ; and if the 
wall has not been painted before, 2 or even 3 coats will be requisite. 
If a pea-green is required, put in less, if an apple-green, more, of 
the yellow arsenic. This paint does not cost the quarter of oil» 
paint, and looks better. 

Blub Color for Ceilings, &c. — Boil slowly for 3 hours 1 lb. 
blue vitriol and i lb. of the best whiting in about 3 qts. water ; stir 
it frequently while boiling, and also on taking it off the fire. When 
it has stood till quits cold, pour off the blue liquid, then mix the 
cake of color^with good size, and use it with a plasterer's brush in 
the same manner as whitewash, either for walls or ceilings. 

To Harden Whitewash.— To ^ pail of common whitewash 
add A pint of flour. Pour on boiling water in a sufficient quantity 
to thicKen it. Then add 6 gals, of the lime and water, and stir 
well. 

Whitewash that will not rub off.— Mix up half a pailful of 
lime and water, ready to put on the wall ; then take i pt. of flour, 
mix it up with water: then pour on it boiling water, a sufficient quan- 
tity to thicken it ; tnen pour it while hot into the whitewash, stir 
all well together, and it is ready for use. 

Whitewash. — The best method of making a whitewash for out- 
side exposure is to slack a J bushel of lime in a barrel, add 1 lb. 
of common salt,. J lb. of the sulphate of zinc, and a gallon of 
sweet milk. 

Substitute for Plaster of Paris. — Best whitening, 2 lbs.; glue, 
1 lb. ; linseed oil, 1 lb. Heat all together, and stir thoroughly. Let 
the compound cool, and then lay it on a stone covered with powder- 
ed whitening, and heat it well till it becomes of a tough and firm 
consistence ; then put it by for use, covering with wet cloths to 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINIERB, ftO., RECEIPTS. 123 

keep it fresh. When wanted for use. it must be cut in pieces adapted 
to the size of the mouldj into whicn it is forced by a screw press. 
The ornament may be fixed to the wall, picture frame, &c., with 
glue or white lead. It becomes in time as hard as stone itself. 

KoMAN Cbmbnt.— Drift sand, 94 parts ; unslacked lime, 12 lbs. ; 
and 4 lbs. of the poorest cheese grated, muL well; add hot (not 
boiling) water to reduce to a proper consistence for plastering. 
Work well and quick with a thm smooth coat. 

Smalt. — Roast cobalt ore to drive off the arsenic ; make the resi- 
duum into a paste with oil of vitriol, and heat it to redness for an 
hour ; powder, dissolve in water, and precipitate the oxide of iron 
by carbonate of potash, gradually added until a rose-colored pow- 
der begins to tall ; then decant the clear, and precipitate by a solu- 
tion of silicate of potash, prepared by fusing together for 5 h^urs a 
mixture of 10 parts of potesh, 15 parts of finely-ground flints, and 
1 part charcoal. The precipitate, when dry, may be fused and 
powdered very fine. 

Factitious Linbbed Oil.— Pish or vegetable oil, 100 gallons ; 
acetate of lead, 7 lbs. ; litharge, 7 lbs. ; dissolved m vinegar, 2 gals. 
Well mixed with heat, then add boiled oil, i gallons ; turpentine, 1 
gallon. Again well mix. 

Varnishes. — Common Oil Varnish. — Resin, 4 lbs. | bees'-wax, J 
lb. ; boiled oil, 1 gallon ; mix with heat ; then add spirits of turpen- 
tine, 2 quarts. 

Chinese Varnibh. — Mastic, 2 oz. : sandarach, 2 oz. ; rectified spirit 
1 pt.; close the matrass with bladder, with a pin bole for the escape 
of vapor ; heat to boiling in a sand or t ter bath, and when dis- 
solved, strain through' linen. 

Metallic Varnish for Coach Bodies.— Asphaltum, 56 lbs. ; melt, 
^hen add Ktharge, 9 lbs., red lead, 7 lbs. Boil, then add boiled oil, 
12 gals, yellow resin, 12 lbs. Again boil untiL in cooling, the mix- 
ture may be rolled into pills ; then add spts. of turpentine, 30 gals. , 
lampblack, 7 lbs. Mix well. 

Mastic Varnish.— Mastic, 1 lb. ; white wax, 1 oz. ; spirits turpen- 
tine, 1 gallon ; reduce the g\^ns small ; then digest it with heat in 
a close vessel till dissolved. 

Turpentine Varnish. — Resin, 1 lb.; boiled oil, 1 lb.; melt; then 
add turpentine, 2 lbs. Mix well. 

Pale Varnish.— Pale African copal, 1 part ; fuse. Then add hot 

f)ale oil, 2 parts. Boil the mixture till it is stringy ; then cool a 
ittlCj and add spirits of turpentine, 3 parts. 
Lacquer Vaknish. — A good lacquer is made by coloring lac- 
varnish with turmeric ana annotto. Add as much of tuese two 
coloring substances to the varnish as well give the proper color ; 
then sqeeze the varnish through a cotton cloth, when it forms 
larijuer. 

Gold Varnish. — Digest shellac, sixteen parts gum sandarach, 
mastic, of each three parts ; crocus, one part ; gum gamboge, two 
parts ; all bruised, with alcohol, one hundred and forty-four parts. 
Or, digest seedlac, sandarach, mastic, of each eight parts ; gamboge, 
two parts ; dragon's blood, one part ; white turpentine, six parts ; 
turmeric, four parts ; bruised with alcohol, oa« hundred and twenty 
parts. . . tf . 



124 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



Dbep Gold-Oolored Lacqukr.— Seed-lac, 3 oz. ; turmeric, 1 oz. ; 
dragon's blood, one-fourth ounce : alcohol, 1 pt. ; digest for a week, 
frequently shaking ; decant, and niter. 

Lacquers are used upon polished metals and wood to impart the 
Appearance of gold. If yellow is required, use turmeric, aloes, saf- 
fron or gamboge ; for red, use annotto, or dragon's blood, to color. 
Turmeric, gamooge, and dragon's blood generally alford a suffi- 
cient range of colora 

Gold Lacquer. — Put into a clean 4 gal. tin 1 lb. of giound tur- 
meric, li oz. of gamboge, 3^ lbs. powdered gum sandarach, I 
pound of shellac, and 2 gal. of spirits of winiB> When shaken, dis- 
solved, and strained, add 1 pint of turpentine varnish, well mixed. 

Varkish for Tools.— Take tallow^ 2 oz. ; resin, 1 oz. ; and melt 
toother. Strain while hot, to get rid of specks which are in the 
resin ; apply a slight coat on your tools with a bf ush, and it wiU 
keep off rust for any length of time. 

Gold Varnish.— Turmeric, 1 dram ; gamboge, 1 iram ; turpen- 
tine, 2 pints ; shellac, 5 oz. ; sandarav o, 5 oz. ; dragon's blood, 8 
drams ; thin mastic varnish, 8 oz. ; digest with occasional agita- 
tion for 14 days : then seta^^ide tonne, and pour off the clear. 

Bookbindbrb' varnish.— Shellac, eight parts ; gum benzoine, 3 
parts ; gum mastic, 2 parts ; bruise, and digest in alcohol, 48 parts ; 
oil of lavender, ^ part. Or, digest shellac, 4 parts ; gum mastic^ 2 
parts; gum dammer and white turpentine, of each 1 part; with 
alcohol (96 per cent.), 28 parts. 

Bbadtipul Palb Amber varnish. — Amber, pale and transparent, 
6 lbs. ; fuse ; add hot clariiied linseed oil, 2 gals. ; boil till it strings 
strongly, cool a little, and add oil of turpentine^ 4 gals. This soon 
becomes very hard, and id the most durable of oil- varnishes. When 
wanted to dry quicker, drying oil may be substituted for Unseed, 
or " driers " may be added during the cooling. 

Black Coaoh-Varnish.-t Amber, 1 lb. ; fuse ; add hot rfrym^ oil, 
ipt. ; powdered black resin and Naples asphaltum, of each 3 oz. 
When properly incorporated and considerably cooled, add oil of 
turpentine, 1 pt. « 

Body Varnish. — Finest African copal, 8 lbs. ; fuse carefully; add 
clarified oil, 2 gals. ; boil gently for 4J hours, or until quite 
stringy; cool a little, and thin with oil of turpentine, 3 J gals. 
jUries slowly. 

Carriage Varnish.— Sandarach, 19 oz. ; pale shellac, 9i oz.; 
very pale transparent resin, 12^ oz.; turpentine, 18 oz. ; 85 per 
cent, alcohol. 5 pts. : dissolve. Used lor the internal parts of car- 
riage, Ac. Dries in ten minutes. 

Cabinetmakers* Varnish.— Very pale shellac, 5 lbs. ; mastic, 7 
oz. ; alcohol, 90 per cent. 5 or 6 pts. ; dissolve in the cold with fre- 
quent stirring. Used for French polishing, &c. 

Japannbrs*^ Copal Varkish.— Pale African copal, 7 lbs. ; fuse ; 
add clarified linseed oil, i gal. ; boil five minutes, remove it into 
the open airj add boiling oil of turpentine, 2 gals. ; mix well, strain 
it iato the cistern, and cover it up immediately. Used to varnish 
furniture, and by japanners, coach-makers, kc. 

Copal Varnish.— Pale hard copal, 8 1bs. ; add hot and pale 
drying oil, 2 gals. ; boil till it strings strongly, eool a little, and 



thin 

diat 

G 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, kC.y RE0EIPT8. 125 



thin with hot rectified oil of turpentine, 3 gals. ; and strain imme- 
diately into the store can. Very fine. 

Gold Vabnish of Watin, for Gilded Artiolks. — Gumlac in 
grains, gambogt , dragon's-blood, and annotto, of each 12^ oz. ; 
saffron, 3i oz. Each resin must be dissolved separately in 6 pts. of 
90 per cent, alcohol, and 2 separate tinctures must be made with the 
dragon's blood and annotto in a like quantity of spirit ; and a 
proper proportion of each mixed together to produce the required 
shade. 

Varnish for Plastbb Oasts.— White soap and white wax, each 
i oz. ; water, 2 pts. : boil together in a clean vessel for a short 
time. This varnisn is to be applied when cold with a soft 
brush. 

Transparbkt YARmsH FOR Ploughs, &c. — Best alcohol, 1 gal. ; 
gum sandarach, 2 lbs. ; gum mastic, ^ lb. ; place all in a tin can 
which admits of being corked : cork tight, shake it frequently, 
occasionally placing the can in not water. When dissolved, it is 
ready for use. 

FiNB Black Varnish for Ooaohhs. — ^Melt in an iron polj amber, 
32 oz. ; resin, 6 oz. ; asphaltum, 6 oz. ; drying linseed oil, 1 pt. ; 
when partly cooled, add oil of turpentine, warmed, 1 pint. 

Mordant Varnish. — Dissolve 1 oz. mastic, 1 oz. sandarach, ■} 
oz. gum gamboge, and i oz. turpentine in 6 oz. spirits turpentine. 
One of the simplest mordants is that procured by dissolving a little 
honey in thick glue. It has the effect of greatly heightening the 
color of the gold, and the leaf sticks extremely well. 

Changing Varnish. — To imitate Gold or Stiver, ^e. Put 4 oz. 
best gum gamboge into 32 oz. spirits of turpentine ; 4 oz. dragon's 
blood into 32 oz. spirits of turpentine, and 1 oz. of annotto into 8 oz. 
spirits of turpentine. Make the 3 mixtures indifferent vessels. Keep 
them in a warm place, exposed to the sun as much as possible, for 
about 2 weeks, when they will be fit for use. Add together such 
quantities of each lic[uor as the nature of the color you are d^esirous 
of obtaining will point out. 

Varnish, Transparent, for Wood. — Best alcohol, 1 gal. ; nice 
gum shellac, 2^ lbs. Place the iug or bottle in a situation to keep 
it just a little warm, and it will £ssolve quicker than if hot, or left 
cold. 

Patent Varnish for Wood or Canvas.— Take spirits of turpen* 
tine, 1 gal. ; asphaltum, 2^ lbs. ; put them into an iron kettle which 
will fit upon a stove, and dissolve the gum by heat. When dis- 
solved and a little cool^ add copal varnish, 1 pt. ; and boiled linseed 
oil, 1 pt. ; when cold, it is ready for use. Perhaps a little lamp- 
black would make it a more perfect black. 

Mosaic Gold Powder for Bronzing, &o. — .Melt 1 lb. tin in a 
crucible, add J lb. of purified quicksilver to it : when this is cold, 
it is reduced to powder, and ground, with J lb. sal-ammoniac ana 
7 oz. flour of sulphur, till the whole is thoroughly mixed. They 
are then calcined in a matrass ; and the sublimation of the other 
ingredients leaves the tin converted into the mosaic gold powder 
which is found at the bottom of the glass. Remove any black or 
discolored particles. The sal-ammoniac used must be very white 
and clear, and the mercury of the utmost purity. When a deeper 



I ! i 



! 



i 



126 CAXINSTMAKSRS, PAINTIRS, *0., KEOfilPTS. 

red is required, grind a vvcj smAll quantity of red lead with the 
above materialn. 

Tbui Gold Powdbb.— Put some gold leaf, with a little honey, or 
thick glim water made with gum arabic, into an earthen mortar, 
and pound the mixture till the gold is reduced to -very small parti- 
cles ; then wash out the honey or gum rei)eatedlY with warm 
water, and the gold in powder will be leftbemnd. When dry, it is 
fit for use. 

Dtjtoh Gold Powdbb is made from Dutch gold leaf, which is sold 
in books at a very low price. Treat in the manner described abo^e 
for true gold po'<vder. When this inferior powder is used, cover 
the giliding with a coat of clear varnish, otherwise it wUl soon lose 
its bright appearance. 

OopPBR PowuKR is prepared by dissolving filings or slips of copper 
with nitrous acid in a receiver. When the acid is saturated, the 
slips are to be reaoved ; or, if filings be employed, the solution is 
to be poured off from wliat remains undissolved. Small bars are 
then put in, whieh will precipitate the copper powder from the 
saturated acid : and, the liquid being poured from the powder, this 
is to be washed clean off the crystals by repeated waters. 

General Directions fob Bbonzino. — The choice of the above 
powders is of course determined by the degree of brilliancy you 
wish to obtain. The powder id mixed with strong gum water or 
isinglass, and laid on with a brush or pencil ; and, when not so 
dry as to have still a certain clamminess, a piece of soft leather 
wrapped round the finger is dipped in the powder, and rubbed over 
the work. When the work has been all covered with the bronae, 
it must be left to dry, and any loose powder then cleared away by 
a hair<-pencil. 

Tnb fiRONziNO 07 Plabtbb Gas'PS is effected by giving them a 
coat of oil or sise varnish, and when this is nearly dry, applying with 
a dabber of cotton or a camel-hair pencil any of the metallic bronze 

Sowdcrs ; or the powder may be placed in a little bag cf muslin, and 
usted over the surface, and afterwards finished with a wad of 
linen. The sutface must be afterwards varnisbed. 

Bronzino Iron. — The subject should be heated to a greater degreo 
than the hand can bear, and German gold, mixed with a small 
quantity of spirit of wine varnish, spread over it with the pencil : 
should the iron be already polisned, you must heat it well, and 
moisten it with a linen rag dipped in vinegar. 

Frinch Burnished QihDisQ.—IJncoUage, or glue coat.— »To a 
decoction of wormwood and garlic in water, strained through a 
cloth, a little common salt and some vinegar are added. Tms is 
mixed with as much good glue, and the mixture spread in a hot 
state with a brush of boar's hair. When plaster or marble is gilded, 
leave out the salt. The first glue-coating is made thinner than the 
second. 2. White preparation consists in covering the above sur- 
face with 8, 10, or 12 coats of Spanish white, mixed up with strong 
size ; each well worked on with the brush. 3. Stop up the pores 
with thick whiting and glue, and smooth the surface with dog- 
skin. 4. Polish the surface with pumice-stone and Tery cold water. 
6. Retouch the whole in a skilful manner. 6. Cleans with a 4cmp 
linen rag, and then a soft sponge. 7. Rttb with o horse's tail 



OtlPTS. 

d lead "with th« 

little honey, or 
larthen mortar, 
ery small parti- 
lly with warm 
When dry, it is 

if, which is sold 
leacribed above 
■ is uswi, cover 
t will soon loee 

r sUps of copper 
I saturated, the 
, the solution is 
Small bars are 
wder from the 
bhe powder, this 
raters. 

e of the abov« 
brilliancy you 
f pun water or 
d, when not so 
of soft leatJier 
md rubbed over 
rith the bronze, 
eared away l^ 

giving them a 
, applying with 
oetallic bronze 

cf muslin, and 
mtb. a wad of 

greater degree 

with a small 

^th the pencil : 

it it well, and 

coat.--»To a 
led through a 
Ided. Tms is 
)read in a hot 
irble is gilded. 
Inner than the 
the above sur- 
[pwith strong 

up the pores 

ice with dog- 

\j cold water. 

! ^th a 4amp 

horse's tail 



CABINGTMAKXAd, l>AIRTfiRS, AC, RS0SI7T8. If7 

(thave^TMt) tb« p*rta to be yellowed, to ttftkft them Mfkr. & 
Yellow with yellow ochre carefully ground in water, and mixed 
with transparent colorless sine. Use the thinner part of the mixture 
with a fine brush. 0. Next rub the wprk with shave-grass to 
remove any granular appearance. 10. Voirf tofrter tiu nonsists of 
Armenian bole, 1 lb. ; bloodstone (hematite), 2 oz. ; and as much 
galena, each separately ground in water. Then mix all together 
with a spoonful of olive-oil. This is tempered with a white sheep- 
skin glue, clear and well strained. Beat, and apply three coatt ^ 
with a fine long-haired brush. 11. Mub with a clean dry linen 
aloth, except the parts to be burnished, which are to receive other 
2 coats of the gold size, tempered with glue. 12. The surfkce, 
damped with cold water (iced in summer), has then the ^^tfjfeq/' 
applied to it. Gild the hollow ground before the more prominent 
parts ; water being dexterously applied by a soft brush, immedi- 
ately behind the gold leaf, before laying it down ; removing any 
excess of water with a dry brush. 13. BumUh with bloodstone. 
14. Next pass a thin coat of glue, slightly warmed, over the parts 
that are not to be burnished. 15. Next moisten any broken points 
with a brush, and apply bits of gold leaf to them. 16. Apply the 
vermeil coat very lightly over the gold leaf with a soft brush. It 
gives lustre and fire to the gold, and is made as follows : annotto, 
2 oz. ; gamboge, I oz. ; vermilion, 1 oz. j dragon's-blood, '^ oz. ; 
salt of tartar, 2 oz. ; saffron, 18 grs. ; boil in 2 English pints of 
water, over a slow fire, till it is reduced to a fourth ; then pass the 
whole through a silk or muslin sieve. 17. Next pass over the dead 
surfaces a second coat of deadening glue, kotter than the first. 
This finishes the work, and gives it strength. 

Bronzingi or Gilding Wood. — Pipecliay, 2 oz. ; Prussian blue, 
patent yellow, raw umber, lampblack, of each, 1 oz. ; grind s^ara- 
tely with water on a stone, and as much of them as will make a good 
color put into a small vessel i full of size. The wood, being pre- 
viously cleaned and smoothed, and coated ■fWth a mixture of clean 
and lampblack, receives a new coating twice successively 



size 



with the above compound, hat' iflig allowed the first to dry. 
wards the bronze powder is 



After- 



to be laid on with a yencil, and the 
whole burnished or cleaned anew, observing to repair the parts 
which may be injured by this operation ; next the work must be 
coated over with a thin layer of Oastile soap, ythidti will take the 
glare off the burnishing, and afterwards bo earefUUv rubbed with 
a woollen cloth. The superfluous powder may be robbed off when 
dry. 

Bronze Powder of & pale gold color is produced from an al! j of 
134 parts of copper and 2^ parts zinc, of a critnton metallic lustre, 
from copper, ox a. paler color, copper, and n very little zinc ; green 
bronzo with a proportion of veroigris, of a fine orange color, by 
14j| parts copper and ^ t-inc; another orange color, 13 J parts 
copper and 2i zinc. The alloy is laminated into very fine leaves* 
with careful annealing, and these are levigated into impalpable 
powders, along with a film of fine oil, to prevent oiddizement, and 
to favor the levigation. 

Rbvivbr f G!» Gilt Frambs.— White of eggs, 2 oa. ; chloride of 
ptitath or toda, 1 oz. ; mix well ; blow off the dust from the frames ; 



I 



t IK :*' 



t ll 



128 OASINITMAKIBS* PAINT1R0, *0., RECEIPTS. 

then go oyer them with a soft brash dipped in the mixture, and 
they will appear equal to new. 

GiLDiNO ON Wood. — To gild in oil, the wooJ, after being properly 
smoothed, is covered with a coat of aold size, made of drying 
linseed oil mixed with yellow ochre ; when this has become so dry 
as to adhere to the fingers without soiling them, the Rold leaf is 
laid on with great care and dexterity, and pressed down with 
cotton wool ; places that have been missed are covered with 
small pieces of gold leaf and when the whole is dry, the ragged 
bits are rubbed off with tne cotton. This is by far the easiest mode 
of gilding : any other metallic leaves may be applied in a similar 
manner. PaU leaf gold has a greenish yellow color, and is an 
alloy of gold with silver. Dutcn gold leaf is only copper leaf 
colored with the fumes of zinc ; being much cheaper than true 
gold leaf^ it is very useful when large quantities of gilding are 
required in places where it can be defended from the weather, as 
it changes color if exposed to moisture ; and it should be covered 
with varnish. Silver leaf is prepared every way the same as gold 
leaf; but when applied, should be kept well covered with varnish, 
otherwise it is liable to tarnish ; a transparent yellow varnish will 
give it the appearanc« of gold. Whenever sold is fixed by means 
of linseed oil, it will hear washing q% which burnished gold will 
nbt. 

To Rhmovb Old Putty.— Apply nitric or mnriatic acid. 

Glass and Porcelain Gilding. — Dissolve in boiled linseed oil an 
equal weight either of copal or amber ; add as much oil of tur- 
pentine as will enable you to apply the compound or size thus 
formed, as thin as possible, to the parts of the glass intended to be gilt. 
The glass is to be placed in a stove till it will almost burn the 
fingers when handled : at this temperature the size becomes adhe- 
sive, and a piece of gold-leaf, applied in the usual way, will imme- 
diately stick. Sweep off the superfiuous portions of the leaf, and 
when quite cold it may be burnished ; taking care to interpose a 
piece of India paper between the gold and the burnisher. 

SoLUBLB Glass. — 1. Silica, 1 part ; carbonate of soda, 2 parts; Atse 
together. 2. Carbonate of loda (dry), 54 parts ; drv carbonate of 
potassa, 70 peEVts; silica, 192 parts; soluble in boiling water, 
yielding a fine, transparent, semi-elastic varnish. 3. Carbonate of 
potassa (dry), 10 parts; powdered quartz (or sand, free from iron 
or alumina), IS parts ; charcoal, 1 part ; all fused together. Solu- 
ble in 6 or 6 times its weight of boiling water. The filtered solu- 
tion, evaporated to dryness, yields a transparMit glass, permanent 
in the air. 

Etching on Glass. — Druggists' bottles, bar-tumblen , signs, and 
glassware of every description, can be lettered in a beautiful style 
of art, by simply giving the article to be engraved, or etched, a 
thin coat of the engraver's varnish (see next receipt), and the appli- 
cation of fluoric acid. Before doing so, the glase must be thorougb- 
ly cleaned and heated^ so that it can hardly be held. The varnish 
is then to be applied lightlv over, and made smooth by dabbing it 
with a small ball of silk, filled with cotton. When dry and even, 
the lines may be traced on it by a sharp sttel, catting clear 
through the yamish to the glass. The varnish »u#t be yemoyed 



he miltare, and 



OABNIETMAJ^ERS, PAINTEBS, kO., EEOEIPTS. 129 

clean from each letter, otherwise it will be an imperfect job. When 
all is ready, pour on or apply the fluoric acid with a feather, fill- 
ing each letter. Let it remain until it etches to the required 
depth, then wanfti oflf with water, and remove the yamish. 

Etching Varnish.— Take of virgin wax and asphaltum, each 2 
•z. ; of black pitch and Burgundy pitch, each \ oz. ; melt the wax 
and pitch in a new earthenware glazed pot, and add to them, by 
degrees, the asphaltum, finely powdered. Let the whole boil, sim- 
mering gradually, till such tune as, taking a drop upon a 
plate, it will break when it is cold, on bending it double two or 
three times betwixt the fingers. The varnish, being then boiled 
enough, must be taken off the fire, and, after it cools a little, must 
be poured into warm water that it may work the more easily with 
the hands, so as to be formed into balls, which must be kneaded, 
and put into a piece of taffety for use. 

Fluoric Aoid, to Make for ETOHiNa Purpobib. — You can ntfftke 
your own fluoric (sometimes called hydro-fluoric) acid, by getting? 
the fluor or Derbyshire spar, pulverizing it, and putting all of it 
into sulphuric acid which the acid will cut or dissolve. Inasmuch 
as fluoric acid is destructive to glass, it cannot be kept in common 
bottles, but must be kept in lead or gutta percha bottles. 

Glass-Grinding for Signs, Shades, &c. — After you have etched 
a name or other design upon uncolored glass, and wish to have it 
show off to better advantage by permitting the light to pass only 
through the letters, you can do so by taking a piece of flat brass 
sufficiently large not to dip into the letters, but pass over them 
when gliding upon the surface of the glass ; then, with flour of 
emery, and keeping it wet, you can grind the whole surface, very 
quickly, to look like the ground-glass globes often seen upon 
lamps, except the letter, which is eaten below the general surface. 

To Drill and Ornament Glass. — Glass can be easily drilled by 
a steel drill, hardened but not drawn, and driven at a high velo- 
city. Holes of any size, from the 16th of an inch upwards, can be 
drilled, by using spirits of turpentine as a drip ; and, easier still, 
by using camphor with the turpentine. Do not press the glass 
very hard against the drill. If you require to ornament glass by 
turning in a lathe, use a good mill file and the turpentine and cam* 
phor drip, and you will fiind it an easy matter to produce any shape 
you choose. 

Gilding Glass Signs, &c. — Out a piece of thin paper to the size 
of your glass, draw out your design correctly in bl . ck lead-pencil 
on the paper, then prick through the outline of the letters with a 
fine needle ; tie up a little dry white lead in a piece of rag ; this is a 
pounce-bag. Place your design upon the glass, right side up, dust 
it with the pounce-bag ; and, after taking the paper off, the aesign 
will appear in white dots upon the glass ; these will guide you m 
laying on the gold on the opposite side, which must be well 
cleaned preparatory to laying on the gold. Preparing the size. — 
Boil perfectly clean water in an enamelled saucepan, and while 
boiling, add 2 or 3 shreds of best selected ?stinglass ; after a few 
minutes strain it through a clean linen rag ; when cool, it is ready 
for use. Clean the gla$» perfectly. — ^When this is done, use a flat 
camel's-hair brush for laying pa tl)^ gi&e ; and let it dram off when 



I i' I 



; li 



t nil H 



130 0ABL\BTMAK£a8, PAINTERS, AO., RXC2IPI0. 

yon pat the ffold on. Whon the gold is laid on and perfoetly Atr; 
take a ball of th* fiuest cotton wool and goatlv rub or poiuh tbd 
gold i you can then lay on another coat oi' goid if desirable ; it is 
now ready for writing. In doin^ this, mix ft little of the best veget- 
able black with black iapau ; thin with turpentine to proper work- 
ing consiatency ; apoxly this when thoroughly dry ; wasb off the 
superfluous gold, ana shade as in sign-writing. 

QuiJM GuniNo, Anotubb Mbtuoo. — Glean and drv the glass 
thoroughly, then lay out the lines for the letters with a piece of 
hard scented soap, then paint the letters on the right side of the 
glass with lampblack mixed with oil, in order to form a guide for 
tke work, then on the inside lay on a coat of the size mentioned in 
the preceding receipt, using a camers-hair brush, covering the 
who& of the letters j next lay on the gold leaf with a tip, until 
every part of the letters is covered well. Let the leaf remain until 
the siae is dry, when you will find -that the letters on the front side 
can be easily seen and traced. This is done with quick drying 
black, mixed with a little varnish. Paint over the whole directly 
on the gold ; allow it to dry ; then wipe off with soap and water 
the lampblack letters from the front side, with pure cold water 
and a clean sponge ; wash the superfluous gold leaf and size from 
the back, and you will have a splendid gold letter on the glass; 
^ext, shade your letters to suit the taste, always remembering to 
shade to the edge of the gold, for then you have only one edge to 
make straight The other edge may be left rough, and when dry 
may be straightened by scraping with a knife. 

OBNAUBNTAb Dbsions ON Glass.— In making scrolls, eagles, &c.. 
on glass, some painters put on the outlines and shades first, ana 
then lay the gold leaf over all; another good way is to scratch the 
shades into the gold leaf after it is dry, and put the colors on the 
back of the gold. Silver leaf may be used in the same manner as 

fold, but it will not wear as well. A very pretty^letter may be made 
y incorporating silver with gold ; take paper and cut anv fancy 
design to fit the parts of the letter ; stick it on the size before lay- 
ing the leaf, and then lay the leaf, allowing it tu dry, and wash off 
as before ; then with a penknife raise the paper figure, and the 
exact shape or form of the figure will be found cut out of the gold 
letter; clean -off nicely, apply more size, and lay silver leaf to cover 
the vacant spots; wash off when dry, and a very handsome letter 
will be the result. Colors may be used instead of silver, if desired, 
or a silver letter edged or " cut up" with gold, will look well. 

Gildbbb' Gold Bizb.— Drying or boiled linseed oil, thickened 
with yellow ochre, or calcined red ochre, and carefully reduced to 
the utmost smoothness by grinding. It is thinned with oil of tur- 
pentine. 

To Gild Lbttbrs on Wood, &o.— When your sign is prepared as 
smooth as possible, go over it with a sizing made by white of an 
egg dissolved in about four times its weight of cold water ; adding 
a small quantity of fuller's earth, this to prevent the gold sticking 
to any part but the letters. When dry, set out the ^letters and 
commence writing, laying on the size as thinly as possible, with a 
fable pencil. Let it stand until you can barely feel a slight sticki- 
ness, tben^o to work mth your gold leaf, knife, and oushion, and 



and perfoetly dry; 

rub or \Hilnih tLe 

I if desirable ; it is 

) of the best reget- 

to proper work. 
Iry ; waah ofif the 

id dry the glass 
w with a piece of 

riffht side of the 
form a guide for 
size mentioned in 
ish, covering the 

with a tip, until 
leaf remain until 

1 on the front side 
^ith quick drying 
he whole directly 
1 soap and water 

pure cold water 
eaf and size from 
ter on the glass; 
I remembering to 
ouly one edge to 
;h, and when dry 

rolls, eagles, &c.. 

shades tirst. ana 

is to acratcn the 

he colors on the 

lame manner as 

iter may be made 

cut any fancy 

size before lay- 

^ and wash off 

igure, and the 

out of the gold 

ver leaf to cover 

landsome letter 

Iver, if desired, 

look well. 

oil, thickened 

illy reduced to 

syith oil of tur- 

is prepared as 
by white of an 
water ; adding 
5 gold sticking 
le ^letters ana 
Dssible, with a 

slight sticki. 

ooshion, and 



1 
•y 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTEBS, &C., RECEIPTS. 131 

f ild the letters. Take a leaf up on the point of your knive, after 
givinff it a slight puiF into the back part of your cushion, and 
spread it on the ft-ont nart of the cushion as straight as possible, 
ffiring it another slight puff with your month to flatten it out. 
Now cut itinto the proper sice, ontting with the heel of your knife 
forwards. Now rub tbie tip lightly on your hair ; take up the gold 
on the point, and place it neatly on the letters ; when they are all 
coverea get some very fine cotton wool, and gently rub the gold 
until it is smooth and bright. Then wash tM sign with clean 
water to take off the egg size. 

SuBBTiTUTB voii Plastir ov PAiuB.^Best wbiteniog, 2 lbs.; glue, 
1 lb. ; linseed oil, 1 lb. Heat all together, and stir thoroughly. 
Let the compound cool, and then lav it on a stone covered with 
powdered whitening, and heat it well till it becomes of a tough 
and firm consistence ; then put it by for use, covering with wet 
cloths to keep it fresh. When wanted for use. it most be cut In 
pieces adapted to the size of the mould, into wnich it is forced by 
a screw press. The ornMoaent may be fixed to the wall, picture- 
frame^ &c., with glue or white lead. It becomes in time as hard as 
stone itself. 

QoLD LusTRv roR STomiWAKB, Chtna, &o.— Gold, 6 parts ; aqua 
regia. 36 parts. DlssolvCj then add tin, 1 part; next add balsam 
of sulphur, 3 parts ; oil of turpentine. ' ^)art. Mix gradually into 
a mortar, and rub it until the mixture oecomee hard ; then add oil 
of turpentine, 4 parts. It is then to be applied to a ground pre- 
pared fOT the purpose. 

Gilding China and Glass.— Powdered gold is mixed with borax 
and gum-water, and the solution applied with a camel<hair pencil. 
Heat is then applied by a stove until the borax fuses, when the 
gold is fixed and afterwards burnished. 

Glass STAiNiNO.--The following colors, after having been pre- 
pared, and rubbed upon a plate of ground-glass, with the spirit of 
turpentine or lavender thickened in the air, are applied with a hair- 
pencil. Before using them, however, it is necessary to try them on 
small pieces of glass^ and expose them to the fire, to ascertain if the 
desired tone of color is produced. The artist must be guided by 
these proof Tpieces in using his colors. The glass proper for receiv- 
ing these pigments should be colorless, uniform, and difficult of 
fusion. A design must be drawn on paper, and placed beneath the 
plate of glass. The upper side of the glass, being sponged over 
with gum-water, affbrds, when dry^ a surface |>roper for receiving 
the colors without the risk of their running irregularlv, as they 
would otherwise do on the slippery glass. The artist draws on 
the plate (usually in black), with a fine pencil, all the traces which 
mark the great outlines or shades of the figures. Afterwards, 
when it is dry, the vitrifying colors are laid on by means of larger 
hair-penoils ; their selection being regulated by the burnt speci- 
men-timts above mentioned. The fofiowing are all fast colors, 
which do not run, except the yellow, which must therefore be 
laid on the opposite side of the glass. The preparations being all 
laid on, th^ glass is ready for being fired in a muffle, in order to fix 
and bring out the proper colors. The muffle must be made of 
Tery rtfractory fire-clay, flat at its bottom, and only five or six 



i-'l'ff 

1 . 



132 dABlNEl^MAKEES, PAIN^EBS, kC, ttlTdlfl^ST 



I ■ 'Hi 

I: ' till . 



S iiH 



inches high, with a strong^ arched roof, and close, on all sides, to 
exclude amok') and flame. On the bottom, a smooth bed of silted 
limci freed from water, about half an inch tUck, must be prepared 
for receiring the glass. Sometimes, several plates of glass are laid 
over each other, with a layer of lime powder between each. The 
fire is now lighted, .tnd very gradually raised, lest the glass should 
be broken ; then keep it at a fi^ll beat for three or four bours,more 
or less, according to the indications of the trial slips ; the yellow 
coloring being principally watched, it furnishing the best cnterion 
of the state of the others* When all is right, let the fire die ottt| 
so as to anneal the glass, 

Stainbd-Glass PiGit5KTS.--No. 1. Ilesh-eolor.—Bed lead, 1 oz. ; 
red enamel (Venetian glass enamel, from alum and copperas cal- 
cined together) : grind them to a fine powder, and work this up 
with alcohol nprv a hard stone. When slightly baked, this pro- 
duces a fine flesh- 'olor. No. 2. Black coior.-Take 14J oz, of smithy 
scales of iron ; mi\. them with 2 oz. of white glass ; antimony, 1 oz. ; 
m&ngrnese, i o^j. ; pound and grind these ingredients together with 
strong vinega.". No. 3. Brovm color. — White glass or enamel, 1 oz. : 

Sood manganese, ^ oz.; grind together. No. 4. Red, Rose, ana 
frown colors are made from peroxide of iron, prepared by nitric 
^cid. The flux consists of borax, sand, and minium, in small quan- 
tities. Red color mav likewise be obtained from 1 oz. of red cnalk, 
pounded, mixed with 2 oz. of white, hard enamel, and a little 
peroxide of copper. A red may also be composed of rust of iron, 
glass of antimony, yellow glass of lead, such as is used by potters, 
or litharge, each in e^ual quantities, to which a little sulpburet 
of silver is added. This composition, well ground, produces a very 
fine red color on glass. No. 5. Oreen. — 2 oz. of brass, calcined into 
an oxide ; 2 oz. of minium, and 8 oz. of white sand ; reduce them 
to a fine powder, which is to be enclosed in a well-luted crucible, 
and heated strongly in an air furnace for an hour. When the mix- 
ture is cold, grind it in a brass mortar. Green may, however, be 
advantageously produced, by a yellow on one side and a blue on 
the other. Oxid!e of chrome' has been also employed to stain glass 
green. No. 6. A Jine Yellow stain. — Tfike fine silver, laminated 
thin, dissolve in nitric acid, dilute with abundance of water, and 
precipitate with /solution of sea-..ait ; mix this chloride of silver in 
a dry powder, with three times its weight of pipe clay, well burnt 
and pounded. The back of the glass pane is to be painted with this 
powder ; for, when painted on the face, it is apt to run into the 
other colors. A pate yellow can be made by mixing sulphuret of 
silver with glass of antimony and yellow ochre, previously calcined 
to a red brown tint. Work all these powders together, and paint 
on the back of the glass! Or silver lai - -., melted with sulphur 
and glass of antimony, thror<n into cola water and afterwards 

Sound to powder, afford a yellow. A pale yellow may be made with 
e powder resulting from brass, sulphur, and glass of antimony, 
calcined together in a crucible till they cease to smoke, and then 
mixed with a httle burnt yellow ochre. The Jine yellow of M. Meraud 
is prepared from chloride of silver, oxide of zinc, and rust of iron. 
This mixture, simply ground, is applied on the glass. Orange color. 
— "^ake part of silver powder, as precipitated from the nitrate of 



rer, laminated 



a>^BIN£TMAKERS, PAINTERS, LC , BEOEIPTS. 133 

that metal, by plates of copper, and washed ; mix with 1 part of 
red ochre, and 1 of yellow, by careful trituration ; grind into a thia 
pap, with 'Oil of turpentine or lavender; apply tms with a brush, 
and burn in. 

SiLTBBiNa Lookino-Glabsbs with Purb Silvbr.— Prepare a mix- 
ture of 3 grs. of ammonia, 60 grs. nitrate of silver, 90 minims of 
spirits of wine, 90 mmims of water ; when the nitrate of silver is 
dissolved, filter the liquid, and add a small quantity of sugar,) 15 
grs.); dissolved ili 1^ oz. of water and 1^ oz. spirits of wine. Put 
the glass into this mixture, having one side covered with varnish, 

£um^ or some substance to prevent the silver being attached to it. 
et it remain for a few days, and you have a most elegant looking- 
glass ; yet it is far more costly than the quiclcsilver. 

Another MBxkoD.— A sheet of tin-foil corresponding to the size 
of the plate of glass is evenly spread on e^ perfectly smooth and 
solid marble table, and every wrinkle on its surface is cai'efully 
rubbed oown with a brush : a portion of mercury is then poured 
on, and rubbed over the foil with a clean piece of soft woollen 
stuff, after which, two rules are applied to the edges, and mercury 
poured on to the depth of a crown piece ; when any oxide on the 
surface is carefully removed, and the sheet of glass, perfectly clean 
and dry, is slid along over the surface of the liquid metal, so that 
no air, dirt, or oxide can possibly either remain or get between 
them. When the glass has arrived at its proper position, gentle 
pressure is applied, and the table sloped a little to carry off the 
waste mercury ; after whicL it is covered with flannel, and loaded 
with heavy weights ; in twenty-four hours it is removed to another 
table, and further slanted, and this position is progressively in- 
creased during a month, till it becomes perpendicular. 

Porcelain Colors. — The following are some of the colors used 
in the celebrated porcelain manufactory of Sevres, and the propor- 
tions in which they are compounded. Though intended for porce- 
lain painting, nearly all are applicable to painting on glass. Flux 
No. 1 minium or red lead, 3 parts; white sand, washed, 1 part. 
This mixture is melted, by which it is converted into a greenish- 
coloured glass. Flux No. 2. Oray flux.— Of No. 1, 8 parts ; fused 
borax in powder, 1 part. This mixture is melted. Flux N*^. 3, For 
carmines and greens. — Melt together fused borax, 5 parts ; calcined 
flint, 3 parts ; pure minium, 1 part. No. 1. Indigo blue. — Oxide of 
cobalt, 1 part; flux No. 3, 2 parts. « i>«ep azure blue. — Oxide of 
cobalt, 1 part , oxide of zinc, 2 parts ; flux No. 3, 5 parts. No. 2. 
Emerald Green. — Oxide of copper, 1 part ; antimonic acid, 10 parts; 
flux No, 1, 30 parts. Pulverize together, and melt. No. 3. Grass 
green. — Green oxide of chromium, 1 part ; flux No. 3, 3 parts. Tri- 
turate and melt. No. 4, Yellow. — Antimonic acid, 1 part; subsul- 
Shate of the peroxide of iron, 8 parts ; oxide of zinc, 4 parts ; flux 
0. 1, 36 parts. Rub up together and melt, if this color is too 
deep the salt of iron is diminished No. 5. Fixed yellow/or touches. 
—No. 4, I part ; white enamel of commerce, 2 parts. Melt and 
pour out ; if not sufficiently fixed, a little sand may be added, No. 
6 Deep Nanktn yellow. — Subsulpnate of iron, 1 part ; oxide of zinc, 
2 parts ; flux No. 2, 8 parts. Triturate without melting No. 7. 
Deep r«(^.— Subsulpbate of iron, calcined in a muffle until it be- 



Mn 



<l 



M 



III [ 



'ill iiiiii 



134 OABINETMAKEBS, PAINTERS, &0„ RSOElPTdg 

comes of a beantifal capueiie red, 1 part ; flnz No. 2, 3 part^. 
Mix without melting. No. 8. Liver brown, — Oxide of iron made of 
a red brown^ and mixed with three times its weight of flux No. 2, 
A tenth of sienna earth is added to it, if it is not deep enough, No^ 
9. White. — The white enamel of commerce, in cakes. No. 10. 
Deep blacfe. — Oxide of cobalt, 2 parts ; copper, 2 parts ; oxide of 
manganese, 1 part ; flux No, 1, 6 parts ; fused borax, } part. Melt, 
and add oxide of manganese. 1 part ; oxide of copper, t parts. 
Triturate without Melting. The Application. — ^Follow the general 
directions given in aasther part of this work, in relation to stain- 
ing glass. 

How TO Writs on Glass in thb Sun.— Dissolve chalk in aqua> 
fortis to the consistency of milk, and add to that a strong dissolu- 
tion of silver. Keep this in a glass decantei well stopped. Then 
cut out from a paper the letters ^ou would have appear, and paste 
the paper on tne^ decanter or jar, which you are to place in 
the sun in such a manner l^t its rays may pass through the 
spaces cut out of the paper, and fall on the surface of the liquor. 
The part of the glass through which the rays ^s^a will turn 
black, whilst that under the paper will remain white. Do not 
shake the bottle during the operation. Used for lettering jars. 
\ To Tbamsfbb Prints, bto., to Glass or Wood. — Take of gum 
sandarftch, 4 oz. ; mastic, 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine, 1 oz. ; alcohol, 15 
oz. Digest in a bottle, frequently shaking, and it is readv for use. 
Directions ; use, if possible, good plate glass of the size of the pic- 
ture to be transferred, go over it with the above varnish, beginning 
at one side, press down the picture firmly and evenly as you pro- 
ceed, so that no air can possibly lodge between ; put aside, and let 
dry perfectly, then moisten the paper cautiously with water, and 
remove it piecemeal by rubbing carefully with the fingers ; if 
managed nicely, a complete transfoc «f the picture to the glass 
will be eflfected. 

Bottle Glass.— No. 1. Dark Gr«c«.— Fused glauber-salts, 11 
lbs.; soaper salts, 12 Ibs.^ waste soap-ashes, ^ bush.; silicious 
sand, ^ cwt. ; glass-skimmings, 22 lbs. broken green slass, 1 cwt. 
to li cwt.; basalt, 25 lbs. to I cwt. No. 2. I*ale Green.— -Pale 
sand, 100 lbs. ; kelp, 36 lbs. ; lixiviated wood ashes, IJ cwt. ; fresh 
do., 40 lbs. ; pipe-clay, J cwt. ; cullet, or broken glass, 1 cwt. No. 
3. Yellow or white sand, 120 parts ; wood-ashes, 80 parts ; pearl- 
ashes, 20 parts ; common salt, 15 parts ; white arsenic, 1 part ; 
very pale. 

Crystal Glass.— No. 1. Refined potashes, 60 lbs.; sand, 120 
lbs. ; cMlk, 24 lbs. ; nitre and white arsenic, of each 2 lbs. ; oxide 
of raaneanese, 1 to 2 oz. No. 2. Pure white sand, 120 parts ; re- 
fined ashes, 70 parts ; saltpetre, 10 parts ; white arsenic, i part ; 
oxide of manganese, i part. No. 3. Sand, 120 parts ; red-lead, 50 
parts : purified pearlasL, 40 parts ; nitre^ 20 parts ; manganese, i 
part. 

Flask Glass (of St. ^<wnnc).— Pure silicious sand, 61 parts ; 
potash, 3} parts ; lime, 21 parts ; heavy spar, 2 parts ; oxide of 
manganese, q. s. 

Best German Crystal Glass.— Take 120 lbs. of calcined flints 
or white sand ; best pearlash, 70 lbs. \ saltpetre, 10 lbs. j arsenic, 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 135 



lauber-saltSj 11 
ush. : silicious 



i lb. ; and 5 oz. magnesia. No. 2. 
lbs. ; jpearlash, 46 lbs. ; nitre, 7 lbs. 



(Cheajoer.) Sand or flint, 120 
arsenic, 6 lbs. ; magnesia, 5 
oz. fhis will require a long continuance in the furnace, as do all 
others when much of the arsenic is used. 

Platb Glass.— No. 1. Pure sand, 40 parts ; dry carbonate of ' 
soda, 26} parts ; lime, 4 parts ; nitre, 1} parts ; broken plate glass, 
25 parts. No. 2. Ure'a. — Quart2s-sand, 100 parts ; calcined sul- 
phate of soda, 24 parts: lime, 20 parts; cuUet of soda-glass, 12 
parts. No. .3. Vienna. — Sand, 100 parts ; calcined sulphate of soda, 
50 parts ; lime, 20 parts ; charcoal, 2| parts. No. 4. French — 
White quartz sand and cullet, of each 300 parts ; dry carbonate of 
soda, 100 parts ; slacked lime, 43 parts. 

Grown Glass.— No. 1. Sand, 300 lbs. ; soda-ash, 200 lbs. ; lime, 
30 to 35 lbs. ; 200 to 300 lbs. of broken glass. No. 2. (Bohemian.) 
— Pure silicious sand, 63 parts; potash, 22 narts ; lime, 12 parts; 
oxide of manganese, 1 part. No. 3. {Prof.Schweigger.) Pure sand, 
100 lbs. ; dry sulphate of soda, 50 parts ; dry quicklime in powder, 
17 to 20 parts ; charcoal, 4 parts. Product, white and good. 

Best Window-Glass. — No. 1. Take of white sand, .60 lbs. ; puri- 
fied pearlashes, 30 lbs. : of saltpetre, 15 lbs. ; of borax, 1 lb. ; of 
arsenic, \ lb. This will be very clear and colorless if the ingre- 
dients be good, and will not be very dear. No. 2. (Cheaper.) 
White sand, 60 lbs. ; unpurified pearl-ashes, 25 lbs.; of common 
salt, 10 lbs. ; nitre, 5 lbs. ; arsenic, 2 lbs. ; magnesia, IJ o«. No. 3. 
Common green window-aiass. — White sand, 60 lbs. ; unpurified 
pearlashes, 30 lbs. ; «ommon salt, 10 lbs. ; arsenic, 2 lbs. ; mag- 
nesia, 2 oz. 

Looking-Glass Plate.— No. 1. Cleansed white sand, 60 lbs.; 
pearlashes, purified, 25 lbs. ; saltpetre, 15 lbs. ; borax, 7 lbs. This 
composition should be continued long in the fire, which should be 
sometimes strong and afterwards more moderate, that the glass 
may be entirely free from bubbles before it be worked. No. 2. 
White sand, 60 lbs.; pearlashes, 20 lbs.; common salt, 10 lbs.; 
nitre, 7 lbs. ; borax, 1 lb. This glass will run with as little heat as 
the former ; but it will be more brittle, and refract the rays of light 
in a greater degree. No. 3. Washed white sand, 60 lbs. ; purified 
pearlashes, 25 lbs. ; nitre, 15 lbs.; borax, 7 lbs. If properly man- 
aged, this glass will be colorless. 

Window Glass. — No, 1. Dried sulphate of soda, 11 lbs. ; soaper 
salts, 10 lbs. ; lixiviated soap waste, ^ bush. ; sand, 50 to 60 lbs. ; 
glass-pot skimmings, 22 lbs. ; broken ^a^e green glass, 1 cwt. No. 
2. (Paler). White saud, 60 lbs. : pearl-ashes, 30 lbs.; common salt, 
10 lbs. ; arsenic, 10 lbs. ; oxide of manganese, 2 to 4 oz. No. 3. (Very 
Pale.) White sand, 60 lbs. j good pot ashes, 25 lbs. ; common salt, 
10 lbs. ; nitre, 5 lbs. ; arsenic, 2 lbs,. ; magaanese, 2 to 4 oz. as re- 
quired; broken pale window glass, 14 lbs. 

Colored Glass. — Fine Bliie. To 10 lbs. of flint glass, previousily 
melted and cast into water, add zaffer, 6 drs., ^ oz. of calcined cop- 
per, prepared by putting sheet copper into a crucibla, and expos- 
ing it to the action of a fire not strong enough to melt the copper, 
and you will have the copper in scales, whicn you pound. Bright 
Purple. — Use 10 lbs. flint glass as before ; zaffer, 5 drs., precipitate 
of calcium, 1 dr. Gold Yelloiv. Twenty-eight pounds, flint glass, 



i 






I iii;, 



II I !^ 



I 



iffllli 



'il 



!!i: 



'■il 



136 OAfilNETMAK^RS, ]PAII«Ti:ltd, ^d., ttEOfilPO!!^. 

and a quarter pound of the tartar which ig found in urine ', purify by 
putting it in a crucible in the fire till it smoke no more ; add 2 ozs. 
of manganese. 

Paper fob Photographing. — Wash the paper with a solution of 
nitrate of silver, 6 grams ; distilled water, ^ oz. -, dry the paper, and 
wash it with iodide of potassium, 5 grains ; distilled water, ^ oz ; 
dry with gentle heat ; repeat the wash with the silver solution ; and 
when dry, the paper is ready for use. The sensitive surface is an 
iodide for silver, and is easily aflfected by light. 

CoLORBD Potters' Glazings. — White: prepare , n intimate mix- 
ture of 4 parts of massicot, 2 of tin ashes, 3 fragments of crystal 
glass, and i^ part of sea salt. The mixture is suffered to melt in 
earthenware vessel" when the liquid flux may be used Yellow , 
take equal parts of •. assicot, red lead and sulpburet of antimony, 
calcine the mixture, . d reduce it again to powder, add then 2 parts 
of pure sand, and 1^ parts of salt : melt the whole. Greeny 2 parts 
of sand, 3 parts massicot, 1 part or salt and copper scales, accord* 
ing to the shade to be produced : melt and use. Violet; 1 part mas- 
sicot, 3 parts sand, 1 of smalt, ^ part of black oxide of manganese ,* 
melt. Blue : white sand and massicot, equal parts ; blue smalt, | 
l»art : melt. Black ; black oxide of manganese, 2 parts ; smalt, 1 
4 part; burned quartz, 1 part; massicot, IJ parts; melt. Brown, 
green bottle glass, 1 part ; manganese, 1 part ; lead, 2 parts ; melt. 

To Print a Picture prom thk Print Itself. — The page or pic- 
ture IS soaked in a solution, first of potassa, and then of tartaric 
acid. This produces a perfect diffusion of crystals of bitartarate 
of potassa through the texture of the unprinted part of the paper. 
As this salt resists oil, the ink roller may now be passed over the 
surface, without transferring any part of its contents except to the 
printed part. 

To Clean Old Oil-Paintings. — Dissolve a small quantity of salt 
in stale uri ; dip a woollen cloth in the mixture, and rub the 
paintings over with it till they are clean ; then wash them with a 
8ponge and clean water ; dry them gradually, and rub them over 
with a clean cloth. Should the dirt not be easily removed by the 
above preparation, add a small quantity of soft soap. Be very care- 
ful not to rub the paintings too hard. 

To Renew Old Oil-Paintings.— The blackened lights of old pic- 
tures may be instantly restored to their original hue by touching 
them with deutoxide of hydrogen diluted with six or eight times its 
weight of water The part must be afterwards washed with a 
clean sponge and water. 

C AST Engravings.— Take the engraved plate you wish to copy, 
and arrange a support of suitable materials round it : then pour on 
it the following alloy in a state of perfect fusion ; tin, 1 part ; lead. 
64 parts; antimony, 12 parts. These " cast pi ites" maybe workea 
off on a common nrinting press, and offer a ready mode of procur- 
ing cheap copies of the works of our celebrated artists. 

Magic Paper. — Take lard oil, or sweet oil, mixed to the consist- 
ence of cream, with either of the following paints, the color of 
which IS desired: Prussian blue, lampblack, Venetian red, or 
chrome graen, either of which should be rubbed with a knife on a 
plate or stone until smooth. Use rather thin but fiiii paper ; put 



\ 



irine-, purify by 
lore ; add 2 oz3. 

ith a solution of 
•y the paper, and 
ed water, ^ oz ; 
er solution; and 
vQ surface 13 an 

t! intimate mix- 
ments of crystal 
fered to melt in 
used Fellow ; 
ret of antimony, 
add then 2 parts 
I. Green / 2 parts 
sr scales, accord* 
<olet ; 1 part mas- 
le of manganese; 
bs ; blue smalt, § 
I parts ; smalt, 1 
; melt. Brown , 
,d, 2 parts ; melt. 
-The page or pic- 
then of tartaric 
Is of bitartarate 
irt of the paper, 
passed over the 
Its except to the 

quantity of salt 
we, and rub the 
ish them with a 
rub them over 
[removed by the 
Ip. Beverycare- 

Ights of old pic- 
lue by touching 
|r eight times its 
^^ashed with a 

wish to copy. 

: then pour on 

In, 1 part ; lead. 

|may be worked 

lode of procur- 

tists. 

to the consist- 

the color ot 

letian red, or 

Ith a knife on a 

Irm paper ; put 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 13V 

on with a sponge, and wipe off as dry as convenient ; then lay 
them between uncoloi-ed paper, or between newspapers, and press . 
by laying books or some other flat substance upon them until the 
surplus oil 13 absorbed, when it is ready for use. 

To Make Grindstones from Common Sand. — River sand, &. tbs. ; 
shellac, 10 parts ; powdered glass, 2 parts ; melt in an iron pot. 
and cast into moulds. 

To Cast Figures in imitation of Ivory. — Make isinglass and 
brandy into a paste, with powdered egg-shells very finely ground 
You.may give it what color you choose; but cast it warm into 
your mould which you previously oil over ; leave the figure in the 
mould till dry. and you will find on taking it out that it bears a 
very strong resemblance to ivory. 

To TAKE A Plaster of Paris Oast from a Person's Pace. — 
The person must lie on hib back, and his haur be tied behind ; into 
each nostril put a conical piece of paper, open at each end, to allow 
of breathing The face is to be lightly oiled over, and the plaster, 
being properly prepared, is to be poured over the face, taking 
particular c xre that the eyes are shut, till it is a quarter of an inch 
thick. In a few minutes the plaster may be removed In this a 
mould is to be formed, from which a second cast is to be taken, that 
will furnish casts exactly lilie the original. 

To attach Glass or Metal Letters to Plate Glass. — Copal 
varuish, 15 parts ; drying oil. 5 parts ; turpentine, 3 parts ; oil of tur- 
pentine, 2 parts ; liquified glue, 5 parts. Melt in a water bath, and 
add 10 parts of slacked lime. 

Turner's Cement. — Bees' wax. I oz. ; resin, J oz. ; pitch, ^ oz. ; 
melt, and stir in fine brick dust. 

Bank Note Glue,— Dissolve 1 lb, of fine glue or gelatine in water ; 
evaporate it till most of the water is expelled ; add ^ lb. of brown 
sugar, and pour it into moulds. 

Cement for Electrical Machines and Galvanic Troughs. — 
Meit together 5 lbs of resin and 1 lb. of bees-wax, and stir in 1 lb 
ot red ochre (highly dried and still warm) and 4 oz. of plaster of 
Pans, continuing tne heat a little above 212°, and stirring con- 
sftntly till all frothing ceases, or (for troughs) rosin, 6 lbs. : dried 
red ochre, 1 lb , calcined plaster of Pans, A lb., linseed oil, i lb. 

Hydraulic Cement.— Powdered clay, 3 lbs, ; oxide of iron, lib. ; 
bja . boiled til to form a stiff paste 

Engineers Cement. — Equal parts of red and white lead, with 
drying oil, spread on tow or canvas. An admbable composition 
for uniting large stones m cisterns. 

Stone Cement —River sand, 20 parts ; litharge, 2 parts ; quick- 
lime, 1 part : mix with linseed oil. 

Best Cement for Aquaria.— It is the same as that used in con- 
structing the tanks ot the Zoological Gardens, London. One part, 
by measure, say a gill of htharge ; 1 gill of plaster of Paris : 1 gill 
of dry, white sand ; i a gill of finely powdered resin. Siit, and 
keep corked tight until required lor use, when it is to be made into 
a putty bv mixing in boiled oil (linseed) with a little patent drier 
added Never use it after it has been mixed ^that is, with the oil) 
over fifteen hours This cement can be used tor marine as well as 
fresh water aquanft as it resists the ftctio© pf salt water. Tb* 



il 



i 

mi 



If i 



;i 



I 



t|i ijll 



liliiliiil; 



iiiil fill! i 
I 









138 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

tank can be used immediately, but it is best to give it three or 
four hours to dry. 

Common Pastb.— To a tablespoonful of flour add grad rally i 
pt, of cold water, and mix till quite smooth ; add a pinch of 
powdered alum, some add a small pinch of powdered rosin, and 
boil for a few minutes, stirring constantly. The addition of a 
little brown sugar and a few grains of corrosive sublimate, will 
preserve it for years. 

For LvtB) or cement for closing joints of apparatus, mix Paris 
plaster with water to a soft paste, and apply it immediately^. It 
bears nearlv a red heat. To render it impervious, rub it over with 
wax and oil. 

Roman Cement.— Slacked lime, 1 bush., green copperas, 3i lbs., 
fine, gravel sand, J bush. Dissolve the copperas in not water, and 
mix all together to the proper consistency for use ; use the same 
day it is mixed, and keep stirring it continually with a stick while 
in use. 

Vicat's Hydkaulio Cembnt is prepared by stirring into water 
a mixture of 4 parts chalk and 1 part clay ; mix with a vertical 
wheel in a circular trough, letting it run out in a large receiver. 
A deposit soon takes pla-a which is formed into small ^bricks, 
which, after being dried in the sun, are moderately calcined. It 
enlarges about f when mixed with water. 

Glue.— Powdered chalk added to common glue strengthens it. 
A glue which will resist the action of water is made by boiling 1 
lb. of glue in 2 qts. of skimmed milk. 

Cheap Waterproof Glue.— Melt common glue with the smallest 
possible quantity of water ; add, by degrees, linseed oil, rendered 
drying by boiling it with litharge. While the oil is being added, the 
ingredients must be well stirred, to incorporate them thoroughly. 

Fms AND Waterproof Glue. — Mix a handful of quick-lime with 
4 oz. of linseed oil ; thoroughly lixiviate the mixture : boil it to a 
good thickness, and spread it on tin plates in the shade : it will 
become very hard, but can be dissolved over a fire, like common 
glue, and is then fit for use. 

Prepared Liquid Glue. — Take of best white glue, 16 oz. ; white- 
lead, dry, 4 oz. ; rain-water, 2 pts. ; alcohol, 4 oz. With constant 
stirring, dissolve the glue and lead in the water, by means of a 
water-oath. Add the alcohol, and continue the heat for a few 
minutes. Lastly, pour into bottles, while it is still hot. 

Mastio Cement for Covering the Fronts of Houses. — Fifty parts, 
Vy measure, of clean dry sand, 50 of limestone (not burned) reduced 
to grains like sand, or marble dust, and 10 parts of red lead, mixed 
with as much boiled linseed oil as will make it slightly moist. The 
bricks, to receive it, should be covered with three coats of boiled 
oil, laid on with a brush, and suffered to dry before the mastic is put 
on. It is laid on with a trowel like plaster, but it is not so moist. 
It becomes hard as stone in a few months. Care must be exercisea 
not to use too much oil. 

Cement for Tilb-Roofs. — Equal parts of whiting and dry sand, 
and 25 per cent, of litharge, made into the consistency of putty with 
linseed oil. It is not liable to crack when cold, nor melt, UH? 
poal-tar and asphalt, with the heat of the sun. 



OEIPTS. 

give it three or 

idd gradually ^ 
idd a pinch of 
lered rosin, and 
le addition of a 
sublimate, wUl 

•atus, mix Paris 
mmediatelj»i It 
rub it over with 

lopperas, 3^ lbs., 
1 not water, and 
se ; use the same 
Lth a stick while 

rring into water 
with a vertical 
I large receiver, 
to small ^bricks, 
ely calcined. It 

a strengthens it. 
ade by boHiug 1 

rith the smallest 
5ed oil, rendered 
Deing added, the 
m thoroughly, 
quick-lime with 
re ; boil it to a 
shade : it will 
re, like common 

>, 16 oz. ; white- 
With constant 
by means of a 

Iheat for a few 

Ihot. 

p.— Fifty parts, 

[urned) reduced 
red lead, mixed 

[tly moist. The 
coats of boiled 
le mastic is put 
not so moist, 
ist be exercisea 

and dry sand, 
ly of putty with 
inor melt, Ul^^ 



OABINETMAKEBS, PAINTERS, ftO,, RECEIPTS. 1^9 

Gbmimt vor Outbidb or Brick Walls.—- Oement for the outside 
of brick wall?, to imitate stone, is made of clean sand, 90 parts: 
litharee, 6 parts ; plaster of Paris, 6 parts ; moistened with DoUed 
linseed oil. The bricks should receive two or three coats of oil be- 
fore the cement is applied. 

ExoBLLBMT Ghbap KooFiNa. — Shinolkb Sdpbsskdiid.— Havo your 
roof stiff, rafters made of stuff 1 J by 8 inches, well supported and 
6 feet apart, with ribs 1 inch by 2 inches, set edeeways, well nailed 
to the rafters, about 18 inches apart. Tne boards may be thin, but 
must be well seasoned, and nailed close together ; this done, lay 
down and cover the roof with thin, soft, spongy straw paper used 
in making paper-boxes, which comes in rolls, and comes very low. 
Lay in courses up ana down the roof, and lap over, nailing down 
with common No. 6 tacks, with leather under the heads like carpet- 
tacks. Then spread on several coatings of the foUowine composi- 
tion, previously boiled, stirred, and mixed together : eood clean tar, 
8 gals. ; Roman cement, 2 gals, (or in its place very nne, clean sand 
may be used) ; resin, 5 lbs. ; tallow, 3 lbs. ; apply hot ; and let a 
hand follow, and sift on sharp grit sand, pressmg it into the tar 
composition. If wished JSre-proofl go over the above -v^ith the fol- 
lowing preparation : slake stone lime under cover with hot water 
till it falls into a fine powder, sift and mix 6 qts. of this with 1 at. 
salt, add 2 gals, water, boil and skim. To 5 gals, of this add 1 Id. 
of alum, and li lb. of copperas, slowly, while boiling, 1} lbs. 
potash, and 4 qts. of clean, sharp sand, and any coloring desired. 
Apply a thick coat with a brush, and you have a roof which no 
fire can injure from the outside. 

Water Lna at viftt Gbntb pbr Barrbl.— Fme, clean sand, 100 
lbs. ; quick-lime in powder, 28 lbs. : bone ashes, 14 lbs. ', for use, 
beat up with water, and use as quick as possible. 

Gbhbnt for Seams in Roofs. — Take equal quantities of white 
lead and white sand, and as much oil as will make it into the consist- 
ence of puttj. It will in a few weeks become as hard as stone. 

To maeb Door Plates. — Gut your glass the right size, and 
make it perfectly clean with alcohol or soap ; then cut a stnp of 
tin-foil BufiBciently long and wide for the name, and with a piece 
of ivory or other burnisher rub it lengthwise to make it smooth ; 
now wet the glass with the tongue (as saliva is the best sticking 
substance), or if the glass is very large, use a weak solution of 
gum arable, or the white of an egg in half a pint of water, and lay 
on the foil, rubbing it down to the glass witn a bit of cloth, then 
also with the burnisher ; the more it is burnished the better will 
it look ; now mark the width on the foil which is to be the height 
of the letter, and put on a straight edge, and hold it firmly to the. 
foil, and vTith a sharp knife cut the foil, and take off the superflu- 
ous edges; then either lay out the letters on the back of the foil 
(so they shall read correctly on the front) by your own judgment, 
or by means of pattern letters, which can be purchased for that 
purpose ; cut with the knife, carefully holding down the pattern 
or straight edge, whichever you use ; then rub down the edge of 
all the letters with the back of the knife, or edge of the burnisher,' 
which prevents the black paint or japan, which you next put overj 
the bacl; of the plate, from getting under the foil ; having put e^ 



\ 



t ■ 



140 VATOHUAEIBB, JEWELLEB8, tC, SEOEIPTS. 



\ 



Hi 'i 



line above and one below the name, or a border aronnd the whole 
plate or not, as you bargain for the job. The japan is made by 
disaolving asphaltum in just enough turpentine to cut it ; apply 
with a brush, as other paint, over tne back of the letters, and over 
the glass. forming a background. This is used on the iron plate 
of the frame also, pnttine it on when the plate is a little hot, 
and as soon as it cools, it is dry. A little lampblack may be 
rubbed into it if you desire it any blacker than it is without it. 

SoLDBLH GLAaa.— Powdered quartz, 16 parts ; potash, 10 parts"; 
charcoal, 1 pai't ; these are melted together, worked in cold water, 
and then boiled with 5 parts water, in which they enthrely dissolve. 
It is then applied to wood-work, or any other required substances. 

To RBNDBB Wood Indbstbuotiblb. — Robbings Process. This 
seems to be a process of inestimable value, and destined to 
produce verv important results. The apparatus used cons'sts of a 
retort or still, which can be made of any size or form, in which 
resin, coal tar, or other oleaginous substances, together with water, 
are placed in order to subject them to the action of the heat. Firo 
being applied beneath the retort containing the coal tar, kc, oleagi- 
nous vapor commences to rise, and pass out through a connecting 
pipe into a large iron tank or chamber (which can also be built of 
iany Bize), containing the timber, &c., to be operated upon. Thei 
heat acts at once on the wood, causing the sap to flow from every 
pore, which, rising in the form of steam, condenses on the body 
of the chamber, and discharges through an escape pipe in the 
lower part. In this process a temperature of 212® to 250° Pahr 
is sufficient to remove the surface moisture from the wood ; but 
after this the temperature should be raised to 300° or more, in 
order to completely saturate and permeate the body of the wood 
with the antiseptic vapors and heavier products of the distillation. 
The hot vapor coaf:.:!ate8 the albumen of the wood, and opens 
the pores, so that a large portion of the oily product or creosote is 
admitted ; the contraction resulting from the cooling process her- 
metically seals them, and decay seems to be almost impossible. 
There is a man-hole in the retort, used to change or clean out the 
contents ; and the wood chamber is furnished with doors made 
perfectly tight. The whole operation is completed in less tbon one 
hour, rendering the wood proof against rot, parasites, and tbe 
attacks of the Teredo navilis or naval worm. 

German Stone Coating for Wood. — Chalk, 40 parts ; rosin, 50 
parts; linseed oil, 4 parts: melt together. To this add 1 part of 
oxide of copper, afterwards 1 part of sulphuric acid ; add this last 
carefully ; apply with a brush 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, GILDERS, &o., 

RECEIPTS. 

On Watch Clbanino.— It is hardly necessary to say that preat 
caution must be observed in taking the watch down ; that is, m 
separating its parts. /If you are new at the business think before 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, *0., REOEIPTS. 141^ 






you act and then act slowly. Take o? the hands carefully, so as 
not to Dend the slender pivots apon which they work ; tnis will 
be the first step. Second, loosen and lift the movement from the 
case. Third, remove the dial and dial wheels. Fourth, let 
down the mainspring by placmg your bench key upon the arbor, 
or "winding post," and turning as though you were going to 
wind the watch until the click rests lightlv upon the ratchet; 
then with your screw-driver press the point ot the click away from 
the teeth, and ease down tne springs Fifth, draw the screws 
(or pins) and remove the bridges ot the train, or the upper plate, 
as the case may be. Sixth, take out the balance. Great care 
must be observed in this, or you will injure the hair-spring. The 
stud or little square post into which the hair-spring is fastened may 
be removed from the bridge or plate of most modern watches, 
without unkeying the spring, by slipping a thin instrument, as 
the edffe of a knife blade, under tne corner of it and prying 
upwaroT. This will save you a considerable amount of trouble, as 
you will not have the hair-spring to adjust when you reset the 
balance. 
If the watch upon which yon propose to work has an upper 

f)late, as an Amencan or an English lever for instance, loosen the 
ever before vou have entirely separated the plates, otherwise it 
will hang ana most likely be broken. 

Having the machine now down, brush the dust away from its dif- 
ferent parts, and subject them to a careful examination with your 
eye-glass. Assure yourself that the teeth of the wheels and leaves of 
the pinions are all perfect and smooth; that the pivots are all 
straight, round, and highly polished ; that the holes tnrough which 
they are to work are not too larse, and have not become oval in 
shape; that every jewel is smootn and perfectly sound ; and that 
none of them tire loose in their settings. See also that the 
escapement Is not too deep or too shallow ; that the lever or cylin- 
der IS perfect: that all the wheels have sufficient play to avoid 
friction, but not enough to derange their coming together pro- 
perly ; that none of them work against the pillar-plate ; that the 
balance turns horizontally and does not rub ; that the hair-spring 
is not bent or wrongly set so that the coils rub on each other, on 
the plate, or on the balance ; in short, that everything about the 
whole movement is just as reason would teach you it should be. 
If you find it otherwise, proceed to repa?r in accordance with a 
carefully weighed judgment and the processes given In this chap- 
ter, after which, clean ; if not, the watch only needs to be cleaned, 
and, therefore, you may go ahead with your work at once. 
, To Glkan. — Many watchmakers wet the pillar plates and bridges 
with saliva, and then, dipping the brush into pulverized chalk or 
Spanish whiting, rub vigorously until they appear bright. This is 
not a good pJan, as it tends to remove the plating and roughen 
the parts, and the chalk gets into the holes and damages them, or 
sticks around the edges of the wheel-beds. The best process is to 
simply blow your breath upon the plate or bridge to be cleaned, 
and then to use your brush with a little prepared chalk. (See 
recipe for preparing it.) The wheels and bridges should be hefd 
between the thumb and! finger in a piece of soft paper while undear^ 



■t^ 



142 WATOHAtAKlRS, JEWXLLERS. *0., BEOEIPTB4 

ffoing tbe prooeMi ; otherwise the oil -from ^10 skin will prevent 
their becoming clean. The pinions may ^ .leaned by iittlcing 
them lereral tmies into a piece of pith, and the holes by turning a 
nicely shaped piece of piyot wood into theoi, first dry, and after- 
wards oi ed a rery little with watoh oil. When the holes pass 
through iewels, you must work gently to avoid breaking them. 

The oiling above named is all the watch will need. A great 
fRult with many watchmakers lies in their use of too much oil. 

Tbe "Ohiuioai^ Pboowbb."— Some watchmakers employ what 
they call the " Ghemical Process " to clean and remove discolora'* 
tion from watch movemetits. It is as follows :— 

Bemove the screws and other steel parts ; then dampen with a 
solution of oxalic acid and water. Let it remain a few moments, 
after which immerse in a solution made of one-fourth pound 
cyanvuret potassa to one gallon rain water. Let remain about five 
minutes, and then tinse well with clean water, after which ^ou 
may dry in sawdust, or with a brush and prepared chalk, as suits 
your conyenience. Tliis give^ the work an excellent appearance. 

To pBipliui Chalk for Olbanino —Pulverize your clialk 
thoroughly, and then mix it with clear rain water in the propor- 
tion of two pounds to the gallon. Stir well, and then let stand 
about two minutes. In this time the gntty matter will have set- 
jtled to the bottom. Pour the water into another vessel, slowly so 
as not to stir up the settlings. Let stand until entirely settled, 
and then pour off as before. The settlings in the second vessel 
will be your prepared chalk, ready for use as soon as dried. 

Spanish whiting, treated in the sams way, makes a very good 
cleaning or polishmg powder. Some operatives add a little jewel- 
ler's rouge, and we thmk it an improvement ; it gives the pow- 
der a moe color at least, and therefore adds to its importance in 
the eves of the uninitiated. In cases where a sharper polishing 

Sowaer is required, it niiay be prepared in the same way from ro^ 
m stone. 

PrvoT Wood.— Watchmakers usually buy this article of watch- 
material dealers. A small shrub known as Indian arrow-wood, to 
be met with in the northern and western stateSj makes an excel- 
lent pivpt wood. It must be cut when the say is down, and split 
into qufMrters so as to throw the pith outside of^tho rod. 

iPiTH roR Glkanino. — The stalk of the common mullen affords 
the best pitii for cleaning pinions. Winiei', when the stalk is dry, 
is the time to gather it. Some use cork instead of pith, but it is 
inferior. 

• To PivoT.— When you find a pivot broken, you will hardly be at 
a loss to understand that the easiest mode of repairing the damage 
is to drill into the end of the pinion or staff, as the case may be, 
and having inserted anew pivot, turn it down to the proper pro- 
portions. This is by no means a difficult thing when the piece to 
be drilled is not too hard, or when the temper may be slightly 
drawn without injury to the other parts of the article. 
> To TBLL WHBN Ti^ Lkvbr 18 OP PROPER Lbnoth. — You may 
readily learn whether or not a lever is of proper length, by measur- 
ing from the guard point to the pallet staff, and then comparing 
' witt L ^ tfie^i(4lw QfTtt^y-pin table ; the diameter of the table should 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AO;, RECEIPTS. 143" 



always be jnst half the length measured on the lever. The rule 
will work both waji, and may be useful incases where a new ruby- 
pin table has to be supplied. 

To CHANOB Dbpth Of Lbvbr Esoapbmvnt.— If you are operating 
on a fine watch, the best plan is to put » new staff into the lever, 
cutting its pivots a little to one side, just as far as you desire to 
change the escapement. Common watches will not, of course, justify 
80 much trouble. The usual process in their case is to knock out 
the statf, and with a small file cut the hole oblong in a direction 
opposite to that in which you desire to move ^our pallets ; then 
replace the staff, wedge it to the required position, and secure by 
soft soldering. 

In instances where th« staff is put in with a screw, you will have 
to proceed differently. Take out the staff, prize the pallets from 
the lever, file the pin holes Xo slant In tne direction you would 
move the pallets, without changing their size on the other side of 
the lever. Connect the pieces as they were before, and, with the 
lever resting ow some solid substance, you may striKe lightly with 
your hammer until the bending of the pins will allow the pallets 
to pass into position. 

To TBIiL WHEN THB LeVBR PALLETS ARE Of PROPER SiZE.— -The 

clear space between the pallets should correspond with the outside 
measure, on the points of three teeth of the scape wheel. The 
usual mode of measuring for new pallets is to set the wheel as close 
as possible to free itselt when in motion. You can arrange it in 
your depthing tool, after which a measurement between the pivot 
holes ot the two pieces, on the pillar plate, will show you exactly 
what la required. 

To LBNQTHBN LBVIRS OF AnCHOR-ESCAPEMENT WatCHES WITH- 
OUT Hammbrino OR Soldering.— Cut square across with a screw- 
head file, a little back from the potnt above the fork, and, when 
you have thus cut into it to a sufficient depth, bend forward 
the desired distance the piece thus ^.artially detached. In the 
event of the piece snapping off while bending — which, however, 
rarely happens — file down the point level with the fork, and insert 
a pin, English lever style. 

To TBMPBR Cash and otbbb SPRiNce op Watches.— -Draw the 
temper from the spring, and fit it properly in its place in the 
watch; then take it out and temper it hard in rain-water (the ad- 
dition of a little table-salt to the water will, be an improvement) ; 
after which place it in a small sheet-iron ladle or cup, and barely 
cover it with linseed-oil ; then hold the ladle over a lighted lamp 
until the oil ignites ; let il burn until the oil is nearly, not quite 
consumed ; then re-cover with oil and bum down as before ; 
and so a third time; at the end cf which, plunge it again into 
water. Main and hair-springs inay, in like manner, be tempered 
ky the same process ; first draw the temper, and properly coil and 
clamp to keep iq position, and then proceed the same as witk 
case-springs. 

To MAKE Red Watch Hands.— 1 oz. carmine, 1 oz. muriate of 
silvet, i oz. tinner's japan ; mix together in an earthen vessel, 
and hold over a spirit-lamp until formed into a paste. Apply 
this to the watch hand, and then lay it on a copper plate, fAco 



^11 



144 WATCHMAKERS, J£W£LLER8, AC, RECEIPTS. 

■ide up, and heat the plate sufficiontly to produce the color 
desirea. 

To Drill into Hard STKiL.—Maku your drill oval in form, instead 
of the usual pointed shape, and lem;icr as hard as it will bear with- 
out breaking; then roughen the surface whore you desire to drill 
with a little diluted muriatic acid, and, instead of oil, use turpen- 
tine or kerosene, in which a little gum camphor has been dissolved, 
with your drill. In operating, keep the pressure on your drill 
iirm and steady ; and if the Dottom of the hole should chance 
to become burnished, so that the drill will not act, as sometimes 
happens, again roughen with diluted acid as before ; then clean 
out the nolo carefully, and proceed again. 

To Gasr-harobn Iron. — If you desire to harden to any consider- 
able depth, put the article into a crucible with cyanide of potash, 
cover over and hdat altogether, then plunge into water. This 
process will harden perfectly to the depth ot one or two inches. 

To Put Tbbth in Watch or OLorK Wheels withoct Dovb- 
TAiLiNQ OR SoLDKRiNO.— Drill a hole mewhat wider than the 
tooth, square through the plate, a liale below the base of the 
tooth ; cut from the edge of the wheel square down to the hole 
already drilled ; then flatten a piece of wire so as to fit snugly 
into the cut of the saw, and with a light hammer form a head 
on it like the head of a pin. When thus prepared, press the 
wire or pin into position in the wheel, the head filling the hole 
drilled through the plate, and the end proiecting out so as to 
form the tootn: then with a sharp pointed, graver cut a small 
groove each side of the pin from the edge of the wheel down 
to the hole, and with a blow of your hammer spread the face 
of the pin so as to fill the grooves just cut. Re|)eat the same 
operation on the other side of the wheel, and finish off in the 
usual way. The tooth will be found perfectly riveted in on 
every side, and aa strong as the origmal one, while in appear- 
ance it will be equal to the best dovetailing. 

To tighten a Cannon Pinion on the Cbntbb Arbor when 
TOO LOOBB. — Grasp the arbor lightly with a pair of cutting nip- 
pers, and, by a single turn of the nippers around the arbor, cut 
or raise a small thread thereon. 

To Frost Watoh Movements.— Sink that part of the article 
to be frosted for a short time in a compound of nitric acid, 
ihuriatic acid and table salt, one ounce or each. On removing 
from the acid, place it in a shallow vessel containing enough 
eour beer to merely cover it, then with a fine scratch brush 
scour thoroughly, letting it remain under the beer during the 
operation. Next wash om first in pure water and then in alcohol. 
Gild or silver in accoraance with any recipe in the plating 
department. 

Rule for DETERMiNiNa the correct Diambter of a Pinjon by 

MBABURING TbBTH OF THE WhEBL THAT MATCHES INTO IT. — The term 

FULL, as used below, indicates full measure from outside to outside 
of the teeth named, and the term centre, the measure from centre 
of one tooth to centre of the other tooth named, inclusive. 

For diameter of a pinion of 15 leaves measure, with calipers, ft 
shade less than 6 teeth of the wheel, full 



' -WATCHMAKERS, JXWSLLER8, AC, RI0EIPT8. 145 



;e tho color 



e in appear- 



For diameter of a pinion of 14 leaves measare, with ealipen, m 
ihade less than 6 teetn of the wheel, eentrt. 

For diameter of a pinion of 12 leaves measure, with calipers, 5 
teeth of the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 10 leaves measure, with calipers, 4 
teeth of the wheel. /u//. 

Fur diameter or a pinion of 9 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
littlo less than 4 teeth of the wheel, fuU. 

For diameter of a pinion of 8 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
little less than 4 teeth of the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 7 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
little less than 3 teeth of the wheel, full. 

For diameter of a pinion of 6 leaves measure, with calipers, 3 
teeth ot the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 5 leaves measure, with calipers, 3 
teeth of the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 4 leaves measure, with calipers, one 
half of one space over 2 teeth of the whee\,/ull. 

As a general rule, pinions that lead, as in the hour wheel, should 
bo somewhat larger than those that drive, and pinions or clocks 
should generally oe somewhat larger proportionally than those of 
watches. 

To Polish Whbils PBRrBCTLT without injury. — Take a flat 
burnishing file, warm it over a spirit lamp, and coat it lightly with 
bees'- wax. When cold, wipe off as mucn of the wax as can bo 
readily removed, and with your file thus prepared, polish the wheel, 
resting the wheel while polishing on a piece of cork. The finish 
produced will be quite equal to the finest buff polish, while there 
will be no cloeging, and the edges of the arms and teeUi will 
remain perfect^ square. 

Rules for ditbrmutikg thb oorrbot Lbnoth or teb Lbvir, sizb 

OV KUBT-PiN TaBLK, sizb O? thb PaLLBTS, AMD DBPTH OV ESOAPBMBNT 

OF Lbvur Watohbs. — A lever, from the guard point to the pallet 
staff, should correspond in length with twice the diameter of the 
ruby-pin table, and when a table is accidentally lost, the correct size 
thereof may be known by measuring half the length of the lever 
between the points above named. For correct size ef pallet, the 
clear space between the pallets should correspond with tne outside 
measure on the points of three teeth of the escapement wheel. 
The only rule that can be given, without the use oi diagrams, for 
correct depth of the escapements, is to set it close as it will bear, 
and still free itself perfectly when in motion. This may be done 
by first placing the escapement in your depthing tool, and then 
setting it to the correct depth. Then by measuring the distance 
between the pivots of the lever staff and escapement wheel, as 
now set, and the corresponding pivot holes in the watch, you 
determine correctly how much the depth of the escapement 
requires to be altered. 

To BBMovB rust FROM Iron OR Stbbl, &o.— Por Cleaning pur- 
poses, Jcc.jkerosene oil or benzine are probably the best thmgs 
known. When articles have become pitted by rust, however, these 
can of course, only be removed by mechanical, means, such as 
scouring with fine powder, or flour of emery and oil, or with very 



146 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS; 

fine emery paper. To prevent steel from rasting, rub it with a mix> 
ture of lime and oil. or with mercurial ointment, either of which 
will bd found valuable. 

To Put Watcbbs in Bbat.— If a cylinder escapement, or a 
detached lever^ put the balance into a position, then turn the regu- 
lator 80 that it will point directly to the pivot-hole of tLe pallet 
staff, if a lever, or of the scape-wheel, if a cylinder. Then lift out 
the balance with its bridge or clock, turn it over and set the 
ruby-pin directly in line with the regulator, or the square cut of 
the cy linear at right angles with it. Your watch will then be in 
porfect beat. 

In case of an American or an English lever, when the rogulator 
is pliced upon the plate, you will have to proceed <?ia3rently. 
Fix the balance into its place, cut off the connection ot the train, 
if the mainspring is not entirely down, by slippmg a fine broach 
into one of the wheels, look between the pla'es and ascertain 
how the lever stands. If the end farthest from the balance is 
equidistant between the two brass pins, it is all right; if not, 
change the hair-spriug till it becomes so. 

If dealing with a duplex watch, you must see that the roller 
notch, when the balance is at rest, is exactly between the locking 
tooth and the line of centre ; that is, a line drawn from the centre 
of the roller to the centre of the scape- wheel. The balance must 
i^tart from its rest and move through an arc of about ten degrees 
before bringing the locking tooth into action. 

To Prbvent a Ghain Runnino off thb Fuses. — In the first 
place, you must look and ascertain the cause of the difficulty. If 
it results from the chain being too large, the onlv remedy is a 
new chain. If it is not too large, and yet runs off without any appa- 
rent cause, change it end for end — that will generally make it go 
all right. In oases where the channel in the flisee has been 
damagt^d and is rough, you will be under the necessity of dressing 
it over with a file the proper size and shape. Sometimes you find 
the chain naturally inclined to work away from the body of the 
fusee. The best way to remedy a difficulty of this kind is to file off 
a very little from the outer lower edge of the chain the entire 
length ; this, as you can see, will i'jcline it to work on instead of 
off. Some workmen, when tbev have a bad case and a common 
watch, change the standing of the fusee so as to cause the winding 
end of its arbor to incline a little from the barrel. This, of course, 
cannot do otherwise than make the chain run to its place. 

To W»AK»N THB Haib-Sprino.— This is often efffected by grinding 
the 8i>ring down. You remove the spring from the coTle|L and 
place it upon a piece of pivot wood cut to fit the centre coil A 
piece of soft steel wire, flattened so as to pass freely between the 
ooils, and armed with a little pulverized oil-stone and oil, will 
serve as your grinder, and with it you may soon reduce the 
strength of the spring. Your operations will, ot course, be confined 
to the centre coil, for no other part of the spring will rest suffi- 
dently against the wood to enable you to grind it, but this will 
generally suffice. The effect will be more rapid than one would 
suppose, therefore it will stand you in hand to be carefUi, or you 
may get the spring too weak before you suspect it. 





' 17 


M 


\t 


i 


1 ■ 



146a WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &0., RECEIPTS 



b with a mix- 
Mr of which 



LIST OF TRAINS OF WATCHES. 

BHOWINO THE ITUMBHR OF TitBTH IN THE WHEELS, LEAVES IN THE 

FINIONS. BEATS IN A UINUTE, AND TIME THE FOURTH 

WHEEL REVOLVES IN. 



Trains, for Seven Teetb lu 


tbo Bacftpement l¥lieel. 


No. of 
Teeth 
in the 




Leaves 




Leaves 


Teeth 
in the 
Escape- 
ment 
Wheel. 


Leaves 
in the 




JSIO. Of 
Seconds 


Teeth in 


in 3d 


Teeth in 


in 4th 


Escape- 


No. of Beats in 


the 4th 


3d Wheel. 


Wheel 


4th Wheel 


Wheel 


ment 


one minute. 


Wheei. 


Centre 
Vnieel. 




Pinion. 
6 




Pinion. 
6 


Wheel 
Pinion. 




revol- 
ves ia. 


72 


66 


68 




6 


298- 


711 


66 


64 


6 


64 


6 




6 


292-. 

287- - 


31 


66 


64 


6 


63 


6 




6 


31 


66 


68 


6 


63 


6 




6 


28a- 


81 


66 


63 


6 


62 


6 




6 


278+ 


81 


66 


68 


6 


61 


6 




P 


274- 


81 


66 


63 


6 


60 


6 




6 


269-1- 


31 



TralnS) for Nine Teetb In tbe Escapement Wheel. 



63 


60 


6 


67 


6 


9 


6 


299-1- 


34 


66 


60 


6 


64 


6 


9 


6 


297 


33 


63 


00 


6 


56 


6 


9 


6 


294 


84 


66 


60 


6 


63 


6 


9 


6 


291-H 


83 


63 


60 


6 


65 


6 


9 


6 


289— 


84 


66 


60 


6 


62 


6 





6 


SI86 


88 


63 


60 


6 


64 


6 


9 


6 


J583-- 


34 


66 


60 


6 


61 


6 


9 


6 


1!80-- 


33 


63 


60 


6 


63 


6 


9 


6 


278- - 


84 


66 


60 


6 


60 


6 


9 


6 


275 


83 


63 


60 


6 


62 


6 


9 


6 


273 


81 



Trains, for lileven Teetb In tbe Escapeuk^nit IVbeel. 



60 


60 


6 


■ 49 


6 


11 


6 


m)- 


86 


60 


61 


6 


64 


6 


11 


6 


297 


40 


60 


56 


6 


52 


6 


11 


6 


230— 


80 


61 


62 


6 


52 


6 


11 


6 


294- 


80 


58 


66 


6 


53 


6 


11 


6 


293-- 
291-- 


40 


60 


54 


6 


53 


6 


11 


6 


40 


62 


54 


6 


51 


6 


11 


6 


290- 


8d 


58 


64 


6 


54 


6 


11 


6 


2S7'-f- 


41 


58 


56 


6 


58 


6 


11 


6 


287 


a 


59 


51 


8 


58 


6 


11 


6 


286-1- 


60 


61 


6 


52 


6 


11 


6 


286 


40 


60 


55 


6 


51 


6 


11 


6 


286— 


89 


61 


56 


6 


60 


6 


11 


6 


285- 


89 


63 


55 


6 


48 


6 


11 


6 


282-. 


88 


59 


54 


6 


52 


6 


11 


6 


281-- 


41 


60 


54 


6 


51 


6 


11 


6 


281-- 


40 


61 


61 


6 


50 


8 


11 


6 


280— 


89 


56 


61 


6 


54 


6 


11 


6 


277-- 


43 


60 


60 


6 


48 


6 


11 


6 


293-- 


86 


62 


64 


6 


52 


6 


11 


6 


295-- 


89 


&d 


64 


6 


60 


6 


11 


6 


289— 


88 


6.'. 


48 


6 


56 


6 


11 


6 


287-- 


48 


70 


70 


7 


56 


7 


11 


7 


293- 


86 


70 


70 


7 


48 


7 


11 


6 


293-- 


86 


70 


60 


7 


48 


6 


11 


6 


293-^ 


88 



w 



WATOHMAKER, JEWELLKBS, &0., BE0EIPT8. 1466 



No. of 




liearea 




Leaves 


Teeth 
lathe 
Escape- 
ment 
Wheel. 


Leavea 
in the 


.JSo. of 
Second* 


Teetn 
In tho 
Centre 
Wheel. 


Teeth in 


in 3d 


Teeth in 


in 4th 


Escape- 


X^o. of Beats in the 4th 


3d Wheel. 


Wheel 


4th Wheel 


Wheel 


ment 


one Minut". 


W^eel 




P'nlon. 




Pinion. 


Whfiel 
Pinion. 




r< ol- 
vewln. 


«0 


70 


6 


48 


7 


11 


6 


293-1- 


86 


63 


60 


6 


56 


7 


11 


6 


287+ 


40 


63 


63 


6 


50 


7 


11 


6 


289— 


88 


80 


80 


8 


64 


8 


11 


8 


293-{ 


- 


86 


80 


80 


8 


56 


8 


11 


7 


293- 


- 


86 


80 


80 


8 


48 


8 


11 


6 


293-4- 


8C 


8L 


70 


8 


56 


7 


11 


7 


293-1- 


86 


81 


70 


8 


48 


7 


11 


6 


298- 


- 


36 


80 


60 


8 


48 


6 


11 


6 


293- 




36 


70 


80 


7 


66 


8 


11 


7 


293- 


- 


86 


70 


80 


7 


48 


8 


11 


6 


293- 


- 


36 


60 


80 


6 


48 


8 


11 


6 


293- 


- 


36 


84 


72 


8 


50 


8 


11 


6 


289— 


38 


84 


63 


8 


50 


7 


11 


6 


289- 


38 


84 


54 


8 


60 


6 


11 


6 


289- 


88 


68 


72 


6 


50 


8 


11 


6 


289- 


33 


63 


63 


6 


50 


7 


11 


6 


289- 


88 


84 


64 


8 


56 


8 


11 


6 


287- 


.. 


40 


81 


56 


8 


56 


7 


11 


6 


287- 


. 


40 


«4 


48 


8 


56 


6 


11 


6 


287- 


. 


40 


63 


64 


6 


66 


8 


11 


6 


287- 


. 


40 


\ 63 


56 


6 


56 


7 


11 


6 


287- 


- 


40 



Trains, for Tblrteea Teetb In tlie Escapement IFbeel. 



54 


68 


6 


62 


6 


13 


G 


298-i- 


45 


56 


58 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


298- 


44 


59 


51 


6 


49 


6 


18 


6 


296— 


48 


60 


61 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


294-f- 


42 


54 


63 


6 


61 


6 


.13 


6 


293— 


45 


56 


6£> 


6 


49 


6 


13 


6 


292— 


44 


56 


54 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


291-1- 


44 


«7 


53 


6 


48 


6 


13 


.6 


291— 


43 


■54 


62 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


2874- 


46 


■54 


43 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


287+ 


45 


50 


61 


6 


60 


6 


18 


6 


286-H 


45 


51 


62 


6 


50 


6 


13 


6 


282— 


46 


66 


61 


6 


49 


6 


13 


6 


281- 


45 


67 


61 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


280— 


44 


52 


52 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


277- 


48 


63 


62 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


276-1- 


46 


62 


62 


6 


52 


6 


13 


6 


293-- 


46 


65 


61 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


287 


46 


56 


50 


6 


61 


6 


13 


6 


286H 


. 


46 


56 


62 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


280- 


- 


44 


66 


62 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


292- 


. 


44 


60 


48 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


277- 


. 


45 


60 


60 


6 


48 


6 


■•3 


6 


289- 


43 


60 


64 


6 


60 


8 


13 


6 


292-j- 

287-f 


63 


60 


58 


7 


66 


7 


13 


6 


51 


60 


60 


8 


54 


6 


13 


6 


800 


44 


62 


66 


7 


66 


7 


13 


6 


296-1- 


47 


68 


52 


7 


51 


6 


13 


6 


285 


60 


«3 


60 


7 


60 


7 


13 


6 


290 


60 


64 


60 


7 


60 


7 


13 


6 


285 


60 


72 


70 


8 


68 


8 


13 


6 


280 


60 


74 


68 - 


8 , 


68 


8 


13 


6 


286-1- 


60 



iiPTS. 1466 



, Ho. of 

Seoonda 

>f Beata In the 4th 



146c' WATOHMAKER,' JEWELLIBS, &0.} BECEIPT8. 



^S+ 


45 


J98- 
196- 


44 


48 


94+ 


42 


93- 


46 


92— 


44 


n+ 


44 


)1— 


43 


'7-f 


46 


U+ 


45 


!l+ 


45 


2— 


46 


1— 


45 


0- 


44 


7— 


48 


«-f 


46 




46 


1 


46 


i-- 


46 


)-. 


44 


-- 


44 


-- 


45 


' — 


43 


" ■* 


63 
51 




44 


■f 


47 




60 


, 


GO 




60 




60 


1- 


60 



Train*, for Fifteen Teetlt In the Eseftpement Wbeel. 


No. of 
Teeth 
in the 
Centre 
Wheel. 




Leayes 




Leaves 


Teeth 

in the 

Bacape- 

ment 

Wheel. 


Leavod 
in the 






Teeth In 


in 3d 


Teeth In 


in 4th 


Bsoape- 


No. of E«at8 In 


ihe ttt 


3d Wheel 


Wheel 


4thWheel 


Wheel 


ment 


one Minute. 


V\heel 




Pinion. 




Pinion. 


Wheel 
Pinion. 

6 ' 




revol 
Tcaln. 


54 


60 


6 


48 


6 


16 


286 


48 


68 


48 


6 


46 


6 


15 


6 


290 


60 


48 


46 


6 


69 


6 


16 


6 


291— 


60 


48 


46 


6 


68 


6 


16 


6 


800 


62 


48 


46 


6 


67 


6 


16 


6 


288 


62 


48 


46 


6 


66 


6 


16 


6 


288 


60 


66 


48 


6 


46 


6 


15 


6 


289— 


60 


68 


66 


7 


66 


7 


16 


7 


288 


50 


60 


66 


8 


68 


7 


16 


6 


288 


50 


62 


60 


8 


60 


8 


16 


6 


288 


60 


72 


64 


8 


60 


8 


16 


6 


288 


60 


72 


64 


8 


66 


8 


16 


7 


288 


60 


72 


64 


8 


64 


8 


15 


8 


288 


60 


62 


60 


6 


48 


6 


16 


6 


288 


60 


64 


48 


6 


48 


6 


15 


6 


288 


50 


72 


64 


8 


48 


8 


16 


6 


288 


60 


72 


80 


8 


64 


10 


16 


8 


288 


60 


72 


80 


8 


66 


10 


16 


7 


288 


50 


72 


80 


8 


43 


10 


16 


6 


288 


60 


68 


80 


7 


64 


10 


15 


8 


288 


60 


68 


80 


7 


66 


10 


16 


7 


288 


60 


68 


80 


7 


48 


10 


16 


6 


288 


60 



^ralnS) for Seventeen Teetb In tbe Eseapement liri&eel. 



64 
64 
61 
64 
48 
61 
64 
48 
61 
48 
48 
64 
72 
64 
66 
68 
64 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
64 
64 



80 


8 


48 


10 


17 


6 


48 


6 


44 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


45 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


48 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


48 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


45 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


42 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


47 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


44 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


46 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


46 


6 




6 


64 


8 


64 


8 




8 


64 


8 


66 


8 




8 


64 


8 


60 


8 




8 


66 


7 


66 


7 




7 


66 


7 


49 


7 




7 


66 


8 


48 


7 




6 


80 


10 


64 


10 




8 


64 


10 


64 


8 




8 


64 


10 


66 


8 




7 


64 


10 


48 


8 




6 


66 


10 


66 


7 




7 


66 


10 


48 


7 




6 


80 


8 


64 


10 




8 


80 


8 


66 


10 




7 1 



299+ 

299-. 

295-- 

292-- 

290-i> 

289 

286— 

284+ 

288- 

278 

272 

290+ 

286- 

289— 

290+ 

286— 

290+ 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290- - 



68 

60 

68 

60 

68 

68 

63 

68 

68 

53 

68 

60 

60 

68 

68 

60 

68 

68 

68 

63 

63 

68 

68 

68 

68 



To RfiMOVB Soft Solder prom Gold.— Place the work in spirits 
of salts, or remove as much as possible with the scraper, using a 
gentle heat to enable you to get off the solder more easily. Very 
useful to be known where haird soldering is re(][uired, ^itb^r in 
bright or colored worl^. 



I --In 
: m 



HI 



in 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, JkO., REOEIPTS. 146(2 
Train*, for Tblrd TFheel and Patent Seconds. 



No. of 
I'eeth 
in the 
Centre 
Wheel 

60 
60 
60 
48 
60 
60 
48 
60 
60 
48 





Leaves 




Leave* 


Teeth 
in the 
Becape- 

ment 
WhoeL 


Leaves 
in the 


Teeth in 


in 3d 


Teeth in 


in 1th 


Bscape- 


3d Wheel. 


Wheel 


4th Wheel 


Wheel 


ment 




Pinion. 




Pinion. 


Wheel 
Pinion. 


72 


6 • 


60 


12 




6 


60 


6 


60 


10 




6 


48 


6 


60 


8 




6 


60 


6 


W 


8 




6 


72 


6 


64 


12 




6 


60 


6 


64 


10 




6 


60 


6 


64 


8 




6 


72 


6 


48 


12 




6 


60 


6 


48 


10 




6 


60 


6 


48 


8 




6 



No. of Beats in 
one Minute. 



No. of 
Seconds 
the 4th 
Wheel 
revol- 
ves in. 



SCO 


60 


300 


60 


SCO 


60 


300 


60 


270 


60 


270 


60 


270 


60 


240 


60 


240 


60 


rJ40 


60 



Trains, for Fonrtli Wbeel Seconds, wUMk Eleven Teetln 
In tlie Escapement IMTlieel. 



48 


45 





71 


6 


11 


6 


2604- 
271-- 


60 


48 


45 


6 


74 


6 


11 


6 


60 


48 


45 


6 


76 


6 


11 


6 


279— 


60 


48 


45 


6 


78- 


. 6 


11 


6 


286 


60 


60 


49 


7 


74 


7 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


60 


49 


7 


76 


7 


11 


6 


279— 


60 


60 


49 


7 


78 


7 


11 


6 


286 


60 


45 


56 


6 


74- 


7 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


46 


56 


6 


76 


7 


11 


6 


279— 


60 


46 


66 


6 


78 


7 


11 


6 


286 


60 


64 


60 


8 


74 


8 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


64 


60 


8 


76 


8 


11 


6 


279— 


60 


64 


60 


8 


78 


8 


11 


6 


286 


60 


60 


66 


8 


74 


7 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


60 


56 


8 


76 


7 


11 


6 


279- 


60 


60 


56 


8 


78 


7 


11 


6 


286 


60 


60 


48 


8 


74 


6 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


48 


48 


8 


78 


6 


11 


6 


286 


60 


4R 


60 


6 


74 


8 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 


48 


60 


6 


78 


8 


11 


6 


286 


30 


66 


60 


7 


74 


8 


11 


6 


271+ 


60 



Trains, for Fonrtb l¥lieel Seconds, vritli Tblrteeu Teetb 
In tbe Escapement "Wheel. 



64 


60 


8 


66 


8 


13 


6 


286 


60 


64 


60 


8 


67 


8 


IS 


6 


290+ 


60 


64 


60 


8 


68 


8 


13 


6 


295— 


60 


64 


60 


8 


69 


8 


13 


6 


299 


60 


60 


49 


7 


77 


7 


13 


7 


286 


60 


60 


49 


7 


66 


7 


12 


6 


286 


60 


60 


49 


7 


67 


7 


13 


6 


290+ 


60 


48 


45 


6 


66 


6 


13 


6 


286 


60 


48 


45 


6 


67 


6 


18 


6 


290+ 


60 


^8 


45 


6 


68 


6 


13 


6 


264— 


60 


48 


45 


8 


69 


6 


13 


6 


299 


60 


60 


56 


8 


66 


7 


13 


6 


286 


60 


80 


60 


10 


66 


8 


13 


6 


286 


60 


64 


V6 


8 


66 


10 


18 


6 


286 


60 


48 


60 


6 


66 


8 


13 


6 


286 


60 


48 


75 


6 


66 


10 


18 


6 


286 


60 


46 


66 


6 


66 


7 


18 


6 


286 


60 


56 


75 


7 


68 


10 


13 


6 


295— 


60 



1 



KIPTB. 


ued 


Seconds* 




No. of 




Seconds 


of B«ata in 


the 4th 


LB Mluttte. 


Wheel 




revol- 




ves in. 


3C0 


60 


300 


60 


8f0 


60 


300 


60 


270 


60 


270 


60 


270 


60 


240 


60 


240 


60 


340 


60 


JleTon Teetln 


260-4- 
271- 


60 


60 


279— 


60 


286 


60 


271+ 


60 


279— 


60 


286 


60 


271+ 


60 


279- 


60 


286 


60 


271+ 


60 


279— 


60 


286 


60 


271+ 


60 


279- 


60 


286 


60 


271+ 


60 


)6 


60 


571+ 


60 


}6 


30 


J71+ 


60 


rteen Tcetb 


86 


60 


90+ 


60 


)5— 


60 


99 


60 


i6 


60 


86 


60 


90+ 


60 


36 


60 


)0+ 


60 


14— 


60 


)9 


60 


i6 


60 


6 


60 


6 


60 


6 


60 


6 


60 


6 


60 


5- 


60 



1466 WATOHMAKEBS, JBWBLLBBSj SiO,, RECEIPTS. 

rralns, for Fourth TTlieel Seeonda, Trltli Fifteen Teeth 
In Escapement l¥lieel. 



No. of 
Teeth 
in the 
Centre 
WTieel. 



Teeth in 
3a Wheel, 



64 


6C 


8 


64 


60 


8 


64 


46 


S 


60 


56 


8 


48 


60 


6 


60 


70 


7 


60 


49 


7 


48 


49 


fi 


80 


46 


10 


76 


60 


10 


64 


64 


8 


64 


75 


8 


56 


76 


7 


56 


75 


7 


64 


75 


8 


60 


60 


8 


64 


56 


8 


48 


46 


6 


60 


60 


7 


60 


49 


7 


48 


49 


6 


64 


46 


8 


60 


60 


8 


48 


50 


6 


64 


60 


8 


60 


46 


7 


60 


49 


7 


48 


46 


6 


60 


56 


8 



Leaves 

in 3d 

Wheel 

Pinion. 



Teeth in 
4th Wheel 



70 

60 

60 

60 

60 

70 

60 

60 

70 

60 

70 

69 

70 

60 

54 

54 

54 

54 

68 

64 

64 

48 

48 

48 

48 

56 

48 

48 

48 



Leaves 
in 4th 
Wheel 
Pinion. 



8 
8 
6 

7 
8 
7 
7 
6 
8 
8 
10 
10 
10 
10 
8 
7 
6 
8 
7 
7 
6 
8 
7 
8 
6 
7 
7 
6 
7 



Teeth 

in the 

Encape- 

ment 

Wheel. 



15 

15 

15 

15 

16 

16 

15 

15 

15 

15 

16 

15 

15 

16 

16 

16 

15 

•i 

15 

16 

16 

15 

16 

16 

15 

16 

15 

15 

16 



Leaves i 
in the 
Escape- 1 No. of Boats in 



ment 
Wheel 
Pinion. 



ono Minute. 



7 


300 


6 


300 


6 


300 


6 


300 


6 


300 


7 


800 


6 


300 


6 


800 


7 


300 


6 


800 


7 


30O 


6 


800 


7 


800 


6 


800 


6 


270 


6 


270 


6 


270 


6 


270 


7 


270 


6 


270 


6 


270 


6 


240 


6 


240 


6 


240 


6 


240 


7 


240 


6 


240 


6 


240 


6 


240 



No. of 
Seeonda 
the 4th 
Wheel 
revol- 
ves In, 



60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

60 

69 

60 

60 

60 



Trains, for Fonrth. "Wbeel Seconds, ivltb Seventeen 
Teetli In Escapement Wbeel. 



64 


60 


8 


61 


8 


17 


6 


289 


60 


64 


60 


8 


50 


8 


17 


6 


288+ 


50 


60 


56 


8 


51 


7 


17 


6 


289 


60 


80 


60 


10 


60 


8 


17 


6 


283+ 


60 


76 


64 


10 


60 


8 


17 


6 


283+ 


60 


76 


56 


10 


68 


7 


17 


8 


289 


O'J 


76 


68 


10 


68 


8 


17 


8 


289 


(.J 


80 


75 


10 


68 


10 


17 


8 


289 


6. 



Train of the American Watch company's "Watch. 



64 I 60 I 8 I 64 I 8 I 15 I 7 | 



300 



60 



NoTB.— By use of the foregoing set of Trains, and the rule ftr sizes ol 
pinions, on page 144, all dilfaculty of calculating is obviated; and at one 
view, in case of the accidental loss of a wheel and pinion, may be known, 
the correct size and count of the pinion, m^ nuo^b^r of t^^t\i \n \,}n9 
yi\ieel lost, 



im 



^WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 40., RECEIPTS. 146/ 



Valuable Receipts for Goldsmiths.— Standard Gold is com- 
pounded of 440 grains of fine gold, and 40 grains (Troy weight, to 
the oz. allov ; therefore, when you judge how much gold a piece 
of work will take, compound it to the standard weight by the fol- 
lowing directions : Assay Weight. The weight of gold is a pound, 
which IS divided into 12 ozs. each oz into 24 carats, each carat 
into 4 grains, and, lastly, each grain into 4 quarters ; then you see 
the assay quarter-grain, is in reality 1^ grain Troy. 

QUANTITY OB" STANDARD GOLD TO COMPOUND AN OZ. OF ANT OB" THB 
FOLLOWING ALLOTS CALOULATBD TO THE ^ OF A GRAIN, AS FOLLOWS. 



Carat. 


DwtB. 


Grs. 


V 


1 





21 


2 


1 


19 


7 


3 


2 


17 


6 


4 


8 


16 


3 


6 


4 


18 


1 


6 


6 


10 


10 


7 


6 


8 


8 


8 


7 


6 


6 


9 


8 


4 


4 


10 


9 


2 


2 


U 


10 








12 


10 


21 


9 


13 


11 


19 


7 


14 


12 


17 


6 


15 


18 


16 


3 


16 


14 


13 


1 


17 


16 


10 


10 


18 


16 


8 


8 


19 


17 


6 


6 


20 


18 


4 


4 


21 


19 


2 


2 


22 


22 









Q 

a 

% 
g 

o 

H 



Dwts. 


Grs. 


Qrs. 


19 


2 


2 


18 


4 


4 


17 


6 


6 


16 


8 


8 


15 


10 


10 


14 


13 


1 


IS 


16 


3 


12 


17 


6 


11 


19 


7 


10 


21 


9 


10 








9 


2 


2 


8 


4 


4 


7 


6 


6 


6 


8 


8 


5 


10 


10 


4 


13 


1 


3 


15 


3 


2 


17 


5 


1 


19 


7 





21 


9 



Sterling Gold Allot, 78s. per oz.— 1. Fine gold, 18 dwt^ 12 
grs., fine silver, 1 dwt., fine copper, 12 grs. 2. Dry Colored Gold 
Alloy*. 17 Carat. Fine gold, 15 dwts., fine silver. 1 dwt. 10 grs., fine 
copper, 4 dwts. 17 grs. 3. Anot/ier, 18 Carat. Fine gold, 1 oz., tine 
silver, 4 dwts. 10 grs., fine copper, 2 dwts. 5 grs. 4. Another, 18 
Carat. Fine gold, 15 dwts., fine silver, 2 dwts. 4 grs., fine copper, 
2 dwts. 19 grs. 5. Another, 18 Carat. Fine gold, 18 dwts., fine 
silver, 2 dwts. 18 grs., fine copper, 3 dwts. 18 grs. 6. Another .19 
Carat. Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 2 dwts. 6 grs., fine copper, 3 
Jwts. 12 grs.. 7. Another, 20 Carat l^ine gold, 1 oz , fine silver, 2 
dwts., fine copper, 2 dwts. 4 grs. 8. Another, 22 Carat. Fine gold, 18 
dwts., fine silver, 12 grs., fine copper, 1 dwt. 3 grs. 9. Gold solder 
for the foregoing Alloys Take of the alloyed gold you are using, 1 
dwt., fine silver, 6 grs. 10. Alloy for Dry Colored hings. Fine gold, 
1 oz., tire silver, 4 dwts. 6 grs., tine copper, 4 dwts. 6 grs. 11. Solder 
for ditto. Scrap gold, 2 ozs., fine silver, 3 dwts , tine copper, 3 dwts. 
12. Dry Colored Scrap reduced to 35s. Gold. Colored scrap, loz. 
9 dwts. 12 grs., fine silver, 2 dwts., fine copper, 17 dwts. 12 grs., 
spelter, 4 dwts. 

Dry Colorinq for the Foregoing. — Polish your work well and 
for every 2 ozs. take saltpetre, 8 ozs., alum, 4 ozs., salt, 4 ozs., 
jaelt all tosrether in a black lead pot, stirring with ft tbiQ ivQU bar 



\i^g WA1?0HMAK£RS, JHWeHEBS, &0., tL^OttPTA. 



ANY 


OP THB 


8 FOLLOWS. 


8. 


Qrs. 




2 




4 




6 




8 





10 


3 


1 


6 


3 


7 


5 


9 


7 


1 


9 









2 




4 




6 




8 





10 


8 


1 


> 


8 


J 


6 


1 


7 




9 



when dissolving. TTse the firo on a forge and urge It well with the 
bellows, as you can not make it too hot. Your polished work being 
well cleaned with soda, soap, and hot water, is oiied in box sawdust, 
iij afterwards covered with a thin layer of borax ; annealed ana 
boiled out, and again dried in box sawdust, and finally hung on 
platinum or silver wir?. ^(Tnen the ** color " in the pot assumes 
a brown yellow flame, the work is dipped in for two or three 
seconds, aad quenched with hot water diluted with muriatic acid, 
which removes any "color" that may adhere to the work. This 
ougit to produce the desired color, but if it does not, repeat the 
process, previously drying the work before re-immersion in the 
"color." The color-pot must be emptied immediately upon the 
forge, so that it raay be ready for future use. 

WBT CoLORKD ALLOYS. — 1. Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 3 dwts. 12 
grs., fine .wpper, 9 dwts. 2. Fine gold, loz." fine silver, 4 dwts. 12 
grs., fine copper, 10 dwts. 3. Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 4 dwts. 12 
grs., fine copper, 10 dwts. 12 grs. 4. Fine Gold, 1 oz.. fine silver, 

4 dwts., fine copper, 9 dwts. 12 grs. 5. Oreen Gold for Fancy 
Work. Fine gold, 1 oz,, fine silver, 6 dwts. 16 grs. 6. Another 
Oreen Gold. Fine gold, 5 d.vts., fine silver, 1 dwt. 12 grs. 7. An-^ 
other Green Gold. Fiae gold, 10 dwts.. fine silver, 2 dwts. 2 grs. 8. 
Red f-^old, far fancy tbork. Fine gold, 5 dwts., fine copper, 2 dwts. 
12 grs. 9. Another Bed Gold. Fine gold, 5 dwts., fine copper, I 
dwt. 6 grs. 10. Gola solders for the foregoing Alloys. Take of the 
alloyed gold you are using 1 dwt., fine silver, 6 grs., or^ 5 grs. silver 
and 1 gr. copper may be used. 11. Solder for Repairing. Gold al- 
loyed, 1 dwt., fine silver, 5 grs., pin brass, 1 gr.l2. Wet Colored 
Solder. Wet colored scrap, 3 ozs., fine silver, 10 dwts., fine copper, 

5 dwts. 13. Gold^ 15 carat, cost 56s. or $14 per oz. Fine gold, 1 
oz. 18 dwts., fine silver, 12 dwts. 12 grs., fine copper, 10 dwts. 14. 
Fine gold, 1 oz. fine silver, 8 dwts. fine copper, 4 dwts. 14. 
Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 8 dwts., fine copper, 4 dwtf,. 15. 
Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 6 dwts., fine copper, 8 dvts. 

16. Gold solder for the last. Gold scrap, loz., fine silver, 5 dvrts. 

17. Gold, good color. Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 6 dwts., fine cop- 
per, 4 dwts. 18. (^oii cosi 608. or $15, ^rooicoZor. Fine gold, 1 dwt. 
fine silver, 6 dwts., fine copper, 4 dwts. 19. Wet colored solder. 
Scrap gold, 4 ozs., fine silver, 13 dwts., fine c'>nn'^- q dwts. 16 grs. 
20. To reduce 22 carat into Wet colored Gc -, •JO'ns, 4 oz3, 8 
dwts., fine silver, 13 dwts., fine copper 1 or.. .' iwts. 21. To re- 
duce 22 carat to ordinary wet colored Gold withscra^. Coins 1 oz., 
iiu3 gold, 3 ozs., fine silver, 17 dwts. 12 grs., fine copper, 2 ozs. 1 
dwt. 12 grains., scrap, 3 ozs. 1 dwt. 22. Another way, with scrap. 
Coins, 3 ozs. 1 dwt. 6 grs., fine gold, 2 ozs., fine silver, 1 oz. 1 dwt., 
tiae copper, 2 ozs. 11 dwts , scrap, 1 oz. 6 dwts. 18 grs. 23. An- 
other way with scrap. Coins, 2 oz^., fine gold, 3 ozs. 3 dwts. 8 grs,, 
fine silver, 1 oz. 1 dwt 4 gr.?., fi'ie copper, 2 ozs. 10 dwts. 12 grs., 
sfjrap, 1 oz. 5 dwts. 24. To reduce 22 carat to ordinary wet colorea 
Gold, without scrap. Coins, 1 oz., fine gold, 8 ozs., fine silver, 2 ozs., 
fiue copper, 4 ozs. 14 dwts. 25. Another way, without scrap. Coins, 
1 oz., fine gold, 2 ozs., fine silver, 13 dwts^ fine copper, 1 oz., 11 
dwts. 26. Another way, without scrap. Coins, 2 ozs., fine gold, 6 
ozs., fine silver, 1 oz. 14 dwtb., fine copper, 4 ozs. 2 dwts. 



m 



!<!: 



WAfOHiSiAOES,' JEWELLERS, &0.. BEOBIPTS. 146A 

To Wax-CoLOR THE roai(JOi..o AlloT8.— For 5 oza. of worK ta^e 
saltpetre, 16 oz3., alum, 8 oz3., salt. 8 oz3.,all pulverized and muriatic 
!acid, 2 ozs., dissolve the ingrediedts gradually in a black lead pot. 
When it boila up, add the acid, aad stir the whole with a woodea 
8poon. Having annealed your work and made it perfectly clean, tie in 
small parcels with platinum or fine silver wu-Ojand when the color 
boils up immerse it therein for four minutes, moving it about to 
ensure a perfect contact with all parts of the surface. Then take 
it out and rinse it wrll la boiling water, then immerse in the color 
again for li mi- '<^eT au.d rinse well once more in fresh hot water. 
Now add 2 oz& '-.'s- hot water to the color in the pot, which 
will cause it to t .. V jen itrises put in your work for 1 minute, 
rinsing in fresh L.twate ) -jain, when it will begin to brighten. 
Now immerse your work fot aalf a minute longer, and rinse for the 
last time in clean hot water, when it will appear of a most beauti« 
ful color. 

OBDINA.B7 WHT 0O£.ORE1> GOLD.— TaBLB SSOWINa THE PROPOBTIONS OB" 

. Allot with vbom que oz. up to tsn oz. op Fink Gold. 



1 Fine Gold. 


Fine Silver. 


Fine Copper. 




Total. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. 


Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. 


Dwts. Gra. 


Oz. 


Dwts. Grs. 


10 


8 


4 12 





10 12 


1 


15 


'20 


9 


1 


1 


3 


10 


8 0,0 





13 12 


1 


11 12 


5 


5 w 


4 0^0 





18 , 


2 


2 


7 


i 


5 i 


1 


2 1 12 

7 10 
11 • 12 


2 


12 12 


8 


15 


i 6 1 » 


1 


3 


3 


10 


10 


'7 3 


1 


3 


13 12 


12 


5 


8 ? 


1 


16 


4 


4 


14 





9 


2 


12 


4 


14 12 


15 


15 


10 


2 


5 


5 


5 


17 


10 



•bDINABT BBIOHT gold, table showing the PBOPOBTION OP ALLOT, 
with PBOM 1 OZ. UP TO 6 oz, OP PINK GOLD. 



Fine Gold. 


Fine Silver. 


Composition. 


Total. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. Dwts. Gra. 


Oz. Dwts Grs. 


, 10 


5 


1 


2 13 


2 


10 


2 16 


5 6 


8 


16 


4 4 


7 19 


4 


10 


5 12 


10 12 


5 


15 


7 


13 5 


6 


1 10 


8 C 


15 18 



Composition for the abovb. — Fine Copper 44 ozs. spelter 8 ozs. 
Table op allots pob dippbbbnt qualities op gold. 



Quality, 


Fine Gold. 


Composition, 


Total. 


9 Carats. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs, 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. Dwts, Gra. 


12 " 


7 12 


12 12 


1 


15 " 


10 


10 


1 


18 " 


12 12 


7 12 


1 


22 '< 


15 


5 


10 




18 18 


16 


10 



.1^ 



LajL 
12 



?TS. 146A 



liB'iTwAfoaMAKiras, jEWELLisgs,' &c.; utimiFP 



I'Woric ta^e 
ad muriatic 
3k lead pot. 
h a wooden 
clean, tie in 
m the color 
it about to 

Then take 
in the color 
I hot water. 

pot, which 
)r 1 minute, 
brighten, 
rinse for the 
ao3t beauti- 

>portio:t9 OB- 



Total. 


Dwts. Gra. 


16 


10 


6 w 
10 


16 


10 


5 





15 


10 


N OF ALLOY, 


Total. 


Dwta Gra. 


I 13 


i 6 


19 


12 


3 5 


6 18 


alter 8 ozg. 


)LD. 


Total. 


. 


Dwis. Gra. 


















*■ uOMPOSifloN roB tan asovb. — Fine Silver, 3 oza. 5 dwts. i^ gfrs. 
fine copper 8 oz. 12 dwts. 12 grs. Spelter 1 oz. 18 dwts. 6 ffrs. .,^ 
Allots, ooNTraaBD. 1. Pale gold for coloring ^ Enamelling^ or 
Lapping^-TvoQ Gold 1 oz., fine silver 9 dwts., fine copper 2 dwts., 
12 grs. 2. Another ditto — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 9 dwts., fine 
copper 3 dwts., 12 grs. 3. Another ditto— W\nQ gold 1 oz., fine sil- 
ver 10 dwts., tine copper 3 dwts., 12 grs. 4. Enamelling Oold If 0. 
1— Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 1 dwt.. 12 grs., fine copper 2 dwts., 12 
gra. 5. Enamelling Ooldfrom Sterling — Sterling 1 oz., fine silver 
, 8 grs., fine copper 2 dwts. 6. Enamelling Gold Solder — Gold 
Alloyed, 1 dwt., fine silver 4 grs. 7. Another ditto, costASa. 8tg.,or 
$10.75 per 02.— Fine gold 12 dwts., fine silver 7 d.wts., 3 grs., nn« 
copper 6 dwts. 8. Enamelling Oold No. 2. cost 50s. atg. per < 
— Pine goldloz., fine silver 9 dwts., 12 grs., fine copper 7 dwts., i.' 
rs. 9. Enamelling Oold No. 3. — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 14 
wts., fine coppers dwts. 10. Enamelling Oold No. 4t. — Finegv^.d 
2 ozs., 5 dwts. ^ne silver 1 oz., 6 dwts., fine copper 1 oz., pin brass 

5 dwts. II. Enamelling Oold No. 5. — ^Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 
12 dwts., fine copper 6 dwts. 12. Enamelling Oold No. 6. for trans- 
parent enamelling — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 14 dwts. fine cooper 

6 dwts. 13. Gold solder for enamelled work — Fine gold 1 o; , fine 
silver 1 oz., fine copper 10 dwts.. silver solder 8 dwts., 8 grs. 14. 
Pale Oold alloys for polishing, ^c. No. 1. — Fme gold 1 oz., fine 
iKlver 8 dwts., fine copper 3 dwts., 12 grs. 15. Another, No. 2. — 
Fine gold 1 oz., fino silver 1 dwt., 20 grs., fine copper Idwt., 4 irrs 



16. .^ale 18 Carat Oold — Fine gold 1 oz'., fine silver 4 dwts., line 



copper 2 dwts., 15 grs. 17. Another Pale 18 Carat Oold— -Fine gold 

1 oz., 12 grs., fine silver 3 dwts., 8 grs., fine copper 3 dwts., 8 grs. 

18. Pale Oold Solder—Qold alloyed 1 dwt., 6 grs., fine silver 1 owt. 

19. Alloy for best Pens — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silvers dwts., fine cop- 
per 7 dwts., 18 grs., spelter 1 dwt., 6 grs. 20. Solder for ditto — 
Fine gold 12 dwts., fine silver 7 dwts., 3 grs., fine copper 6 dwts. 21. 
Medium quality pens — Fine gold 1 oz., Composition 1 oz., 13 dwts. 
22. Composition for the last — Fine silver 1 oz., 17 dwts., fine copper 

5 ozs., 15 dwts., spelter 18 dwts., 20 grs. 23. Solder for ditto — ^Fme 
gold 1 oz., fine silver 2 ozs., pin-brass 1 oz. 24. Oold for common 
pens — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 2 ozs., fine copj^er 1 oz. 25. Sol- 
der for ditto— FiuQ gold 1 oz., fine silver 2 ozs., pin brass 1 oz. 26. 
Alloys of Oold with Brass, No. I. — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 5 
dwts., G grs., fine copper 3 dwts., 12 grs., pin brass 18 dwts. 27. 
Another ditto, No. 2. — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 4 dwts., fine cop-' 
per 4 dwts., pin brass 16 dwts. 28. Another ditto. No. 3. — Fine 
gold 1 oz,, fine silver 5 dwts.. 12 grs., fine copper 3 dwts., 12 grs , pin 
brass 19 dwts., 6 grs. 29, Another alloy — Fine gold 1 oz., fine sil- 
ver 3 dwts., 21 grs., fine copper 9 dwts., 3 grs. compositions dwts. 

6 grs. 30. Another ditto— Fine gold 15 dwts., 9 grs., fine silver 5 
dwts. 19 grs. fine copper 3 dwts. 21 grs. composition 15 dwts. 31. 
Composition for the last two alloys — Finest copper 1 oz., spelter 5, 
dwts. 32. Solder for foregoing aWoys— Gold alloyed 1 dwt., fine 
Oliver 12 grs. 33. Imitation Oold costs ST c per oz. — Fino silver 2^ 
ozs., 5 dwts., fine copper 1 oz. composition 1 oz., keeps its color 
very well. 34. Composition for ditto — Fine copper 11 ozs., spelter 

2 ozs. 35, « California" Qold—F'uxQ gold 5 ozs., 12_dwts. compo- 






Hi 



■m 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, '&0., REOEIPTS. 146; 

Bition 7 ozs., I7dwt8. 36. Compotttton/or " California"— Fine sil- 
yer 7 oza., 17 dwts. finecoppar 33 ozs. 12 dwta., spelter 6 ozs., 12 
dwts. 37. Medium Oold—tinQ gold 1 oz., fine silver 12 dwta. fine 
copper 13 dwta. 38. Bright Gold— Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 7 
dwts. coraposition marked No. 34, 1 dwt. G grs. 39. Common Gold, 
No. 1.— Fine gold 1 oz., fine siiver 8 dwts. composition No. .'J4. 1 
oz., 12 dwts. 41. Common Gold, No. 2.— Fine gold 6 dwts. fine sil- 
ver 3 dwts. 6 grs. fine copper 6 dwts. 12 grs. 42. Gold/or Pirn— 
Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 5 dwts. fine copper 1 oz., spelter 5 dwts. 
43. Dry Colored Scrap reduced to 35». or $8.76 C/o/rf— Colored 
scrap loz., 9 dwts., 12 grs., fine silver 2 dwts^ fine copper 17.dwts. 
12 grs., spelter 4 dwts. 44. Alloy Jor Gold Chains.— Fine gold 11 
dwts., 6 grs., fine silver 2 dwts., 5 grs., fine copper 6 dwts., 13 grs. 
45. Another ditto— Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver 9 awts., fine copper 8 
dwts 46. Gold worth 45s. $tg. or $11.25— Fine gold 1 oz., compo- 
sition (see No. 22) 1 oz. 47. Solder/or ditto— Fine gold 1 oz., nne 
silver 15 dwts., fine copper 15 dwts. 48. 12 Carat Gold— Fine gold 
1 oz., fine silver 10 dwts., fine copper 9 dwts., 6 grs. 49. Common 
Gold/rom " California" — " California," (see No. 35.) 8 ozs. fine sil- 
ver 13 ozs., lt> dwts., fine copper 6ozs., 16 dwts. 50. 29a. or$7.25 
Gold— Fine gold 1 oz., 13dwt8.,6 grs., finesilver 1 oz., 12 dwts., 12 
grs., fine copper loz., 16 dwts., 6.' grs., spelter 4 dwts. Stands nitric 
acid very well. 

OBDIITABY BBIOHT OOLD WIBB, TABLE SHOWUrO THB FBOFOBTIOKTS OV 
ALLOY VBOM 1 OZ. UP TO 21 OZ. 



Fine Gold. 


Fine Silver. 


Fine Copper. 


Total. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. Dwts. Grs. 


Oz. Dwts) Grs, 


Oz. 


Dwts. Grs. 


6 21 


6 6 


6 21 


1 





11 18 


14 12 


18 18 


2 





17 15 


1 1 18 


1 15 


3 





1 15 6 


2 8 12 


2 16 


6 





2 12 21 


8 5 6 


2 1 21 


9 





8 10 12 


4 7 


4 2 12 


12 





4 8 3 


6 8 18 


5 8 3 


15 





6 4 18 


6 10 12 


6 8 18 


18 





6 3 8 


7 12 8 J 


2 4 9 


21 






To Recover the Gold lost in Coloring. — Dissolve a handful of 
sulphate of iron in boiling water, then add this to your " color " 
water, it precipitates the small particles of gold. Now draw off 
the water, being very careful not to disturb the auriferous sediment 
at the bottom. You will now proceed to wash the sediment from 
all trace of acid with plenty of boiling water; it will require 3 or 
4 separate washings, with sufficient time between each to allow 
the water to cool and the sediment to settle, before pouring the 
water off. Then dry in an iron vessel by the fire and finally fuse 
in a covered skittle pot with a flux as directed on page 244. 
See •* To Fuae Gold JJust." For Silversmitha Compositions. See 
pag« 284 



FBOFORTIONS OF 



Total. 


Oz. Dwts 


Grs. 


1 





2 





3 9 





6 





9 





12 





16 





18 





21 






To TioBTw . n™, n ""«'*<'•, MOEIPrg. U1 

before /hapta„ T/i» !» '" "mper, yw ijit 1.^°° ""k' « thinS 

When your drm £ • '^'^^ ^ a square op /^« P®°® »«*. you 

tion of cjanurKfn; *^'°J»'' ^»to quickailver V^®''^ red, and 
but, for my nart T)!^^* ^P*^ ^*Jn-witer for temrf^"® "«e a-solu" 

tli8tyoum»Ttofh?e ""0 water/ N„{'^,?'*««Per it hurd by 
pleceVcS"„*gi;^„«« When *•■• coI„?"'ct.«^ -T.^'.?"* »J 
blaze d rectfr under thf P ***' *"'' ''old it over vS ' '"■^ " on s 

febedi»n „f^™t'el*^«J^nin "f «»°Priog WmJaS? "? 
the plate from tho Urv^ fy.' ***° ^^ea you sep if ♦»- u, ^ ^°® Pol- 

coof enougUo ha& ^^^«"«rall cool Sua! Wn'«°?u^"®' '^^^ve 

Another process sa.\/Lu wmper may be 

tte ladle, CletT^f «,L"»P «" the""? 4\1''.T" " "ith 



-..»v xuoittuce: tnen nnti* ;1 — ^^'mowi 
^^^^^U^^V^P tKe- Oil t^Te^'r^- -- 



when blowout L^'^^^^'^tinue to bum Lh ,' ^^^- Remove 

The thiid bSinTouI%^.i!^ ^^' ^^dToKerThiV" ^^T"^'^ 
temper. ^'''''^ °'** o^ the oil i^ilJ leate theVnl^^ as beforef 

To Temper GLxa r> ^ ^ ^° *^^ "«h* 

<l>e temper SJT-.«™ *' ""Wes froTwwT,/f '"'.' wnnour 
"■per into a cpmaon iron clock k^S.^'""'«»'™ «o draw 

• '*'• ™' around it with 



I ^i 






! 



l48 WATOHMAKEBS, JfiWELLSOS, 4C., REOEIPT^. 

brass or iron filings, and then plug up the open end with a steel, 
iron, or brass plug, made to fit closely. Take the handle of the key 
with your pliers and hold its pipe into the blaze of a lamp till near 
hot, tuen let it cool gradually. When sufficiently cold to handle, 
remove the plug, and you will find the article with its temper 
fully drawn, but in all other respects just as it was before. 

You will understand the reason for having the article thus plugeed 
up while passing it through the heating and cooling process^ when 
I tell you that springing always results from the action of 
changeable currents of atmosphere. The temper may be drawn 
from cylinders, staffs, pmions, or any other delicate pieces, by this 
mode with perfect safety. 

To TsMrER Staffs, Cylinders, or Pinionb. without Spbinoino 
THEM. — Prepare the brticles as in the preceaing process, using a 
steel plug. Having heated the kev-pipe to a cherry red, plunge it 
into water ; then polish the end of your steel plug, place the key 
upon a plata of orass or copper, and hold it over your lamp 
with the blaze immediately under the pipe till the polished part 
becomes blue. Let cool gradually, tneu polish again, clue 
and cool a second time, and the work will be done. 

To Draw the .Temper from part of a Small Steel Article.— 
Hold the part from which you wish to draw the temper with a paif 
of tweezers, and with your blow-pipe direct the flame upon 
them — nottne article — till sufficient neat is communicated to the 
article to produce the desired effect. 

To Blub Scbews Evenly. — Take an old watch barrel and drill 
as many holes into the head of it as you desire to blue screws at a 
time. Fill it about one-fourth full of brass or iron filings, put 
in the head, and then fit a wire, long enough to bend over 
for a handle, into the arbor holes — head of the barrel upwards. 
Brighten the heads of }rour screws, set them point downwards, 
into the holes already drilled, and expose the bottom of the barrel 
to your lamp till the screws assume the color you wish. 

To Bbmovb Bluing from Steel. — Immerse in a pickle composed 
of equal parts muriatic acid and elixir vitrol. Rinse in pure 
water, and dry in tissue paper. 

To Make Diamond Broaohbs. — Make your broaches of brass the 
size and shape you desire; then, having oiled them slightly, 
roll their points into fine diamond dust till entirely covered. Hold 
them then on the face of your anvil, and tap with a light hammer 
till the grains disappear in the brass. Great caution will be 
necessary in this operation. Do not tap heavy enough to flatten 
the broach. Very light blows are all that will be required ; the 
grains will be driven in much sooner than one would imagine, 
tiome roll the broach between two smooth pieces of steel to 
imbed the diamond dust. It is a very good way, but somewhat 
more wasteful of the dust. Broaches made on this plan are used for 
dressing out jewels. 

Jbwellino. — In using the broaches,press but lightly into the jewel 
hole, and turn the broach rapidly witn the fingers. For polishing, 
use a bone or ivory point, lightly coated with the finest diamond 
dust and oil, and while using it with the one hand, accompany the 
motion with a slight oscillating motion of the other hand, in which 



with a steel, 
lie of the key 
amp till near 
Id to handle, 
h its temper 
efore. 

thus plugeed 
proce&tj when 
^e action of 
lay be drawn 
pieces, by this 

IDT SpBINQWa 

jcess, using a 
red, plunge it 
place the key 
rer your lamp 
polished part 
again. Blue 

BL Article.— 
per with a pair 
e tlame upon 
inicated to the 

larrel and drill 
ue screws at a 
on tilings, put 
to bend over 
irrel upwards, 
it downwards, 
a of the barrel 
ish. 

ckle composed 
inse in pure 

Ls of brass the 
them slightly, 
tovered. Hold 
I light hammer 
lution will bo 
lugh to flatten 
] required ; the 
lould imagine. 
,„ of steel to 
j)ut somewhat 
lu are used for 

[into the jewel 

j'or polishing. 

aest diamond 

jjcompany the 

land, in which 



WATCHLIAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 149 

the jewel is held. This will ensure a more even polish to the hole, 
with less liability to press the jewel out of its place in the plate, 
than if held firm and steady. 

To MAKK PoLisniNO BROACHES. — Thescfire usually made of ivory, 
and used with diamond dust, loose, instead of having been driven 
in. You oil the broach lightly, dip it into the finest diamond dust, 
and proceed to work it into the jewel the same as you do the brass 
broach. Unfortunately, too many watchiMikers fail to attach 
sufficient importance to the polishing broach. The sluggish 
motion of watches now-a-days is more often attributable to 
rough jewels than to any other cause. 

To MAKE Diamond Files. — Shape your file of brass, and charge 
with diamond dust, as in case of the mill. Grade the dust in 
accordance with the coarse or fine character of the file desired. 

To MAKE Pivot Files — Dress up a piece of wood file-fashion 
about an inch broad, and glue a piece of fine emery paper upon it. 
Shape your file then, as you wish it, of the best cast steel, and 
before tempering pass your emery paper heavily across it several 
times, diagonally. Temper by heating to a cherry red, and 
plunging into linseed oil. Old worn pivot files may be dressea over 
and made new by this process. At first thought one would be led 
to regard them too slightly cut to work well, but not so. They 
dress a pivot more rapidly than any other file. 

To MAKE Burnishers. — Proceed the same as in making pivot 
files^ with the exception that you are to use fine flour of emery on 
a slip of oiled brass or copper, instead of the emery paper. Bur- 
nishers which have become too smooth may be improved vastly 
with the flour of emery as above without drawing the temper. 

To Prbparb a Burnisher fob Polishing. — Melt a little bees'- 
wax on the^face of your burnisher. Its eflfect then on brass or 
other finer metals, will be equal to the best bufl'. A small bur- 
nisher prepared in this way is the very thing with which to polish 
up watch wheels. Rest them on a piece of pith while polishing. 

To Make a Diamond Mill. — Make a brass chuck or wheel, suit- 
able for use on a foot-lathe, with a flat even surface or face of 
about li or 2 inches in diameter; then place a number of the 
coarsest pieces of your diamond-dust on different parts of its face, 
and with a smooth-taced steel hammer drive the pieces of dust all 
evenly into the brass to nearly or quite level with the surface. 
Your mill, thus prej ared, is now used for making pallet jewels or 
for grinding stone a id glass of any kind, For polishing, use a 
bone or boxwood chuck or wheel, of similar form to your mill, and 
coat it lightly with the finest grade of your diamond-dust ana oil ; 
with this a beautiful polish may be given to the hardest stone. 

To make Diamond Dust. — Place a few small pieces of common 
or cheap diamond on a block of hard polished steel, in a suitable 
vessel, and cover it with water to prevent flying or scattering, then 
place a flat steel punch on each piece separately, and strike the 
punch with a mallet or hammer, with sufficient force to crush the 
diamond. When reduced sufficiently fine in this way, the dust 
m.^y be collected and dried for use ; after drying, it may be gra- 
duated for different purposes, by mixing it with a little watch oil; 
when agitated, the finest particles will float near the surface, while 



'.i 



:. 



If 



- " Hi;. 



' 



!il 



iSO WATCHMAKERS, JLWilLLERS, &C., ElEOEtPt^. 

the coarsest pieces will sink at once to the bottom : and thus by 
decaating the oil in which the dust floats, as many grades of fine- 
ness as desired may be obtained. The dTlst may be seperated from 
the oil by pouring on a piece of smooth clean paper; the paper will 
absorb the oil, or allow it to filter through, while the dust will 
remain on the surface ; but to prevent waste, the better way is to 
leave it in the oil, and use it directly therefrom as required, or the 
oil may be washed out of the dust with alcohol. 

To Polish Steel. — Take crocus or oxide of tin and graduate 
it m the same way as in preparing diamond dust, and apply it to 
the steel by means of a piece of soft iron or bell metal, made pro- 
per form, and prepared with flour of emery, same as for pivot bur- 
jtiishers ; use the coarsect of the cocus first, and finish off with the 
finest. To iron or soft steel a better finish may be given by bur- 
nishing than can be imparted by the use of polishing powder of 
any kind whatever. 

To Determine the Exact Focal Distance of Spectaclb 
Glasses. — Place the end of & measure of thirty or forty inches in 
length against a smooth wall, or other suitable ground, in plain 
view of some well-defined object a few rods distant, as for instance 
a building or window on the opposite side of the §treet. Then 
place the edge of your lens on the measure, and move it backward 
or forward until a spectrum is formed, or, in other words, until a 
clear and distinct outline of the distant object is producea on the 
ground against which your measure rests. This point will repre- 
sent sufficiently near, for all practical purposes, the exact focal dis- 
tance of the lens, and will correspond in inches with the number 
on all properly marked convex spectacles. For mending fine steel 
spectacle frames, use the bc.t gold in preference to silver or brass 
solder. 

To withdraw Magnetism feom Steel and Qdicksilvbb from 
• Metals. — A degree of heat, considerably below a red heat, will 
expel quicksilver from metals in the form of vapor. To withdraw 
magnetism from steel, &c., cover the article with the juice of 
common garlic, and then warm it over a spirit lamp. Do not heat 
sufficiently to draw the temper or blue the steel. 

To protsct Stonb or Paste Set-Rings, Ac, fhom Damage by 
Heat while Mending. — Cover the head or set part of the ring, or 
other article, with a thick coating of dampened plaster of Paris, 
or simply imbed the same in a piece of green apple or potatoe. 
This wiU obviate all danger from heat during the process of 
mending. A light coat of dampened plaster of Paris will, if 
properly applied, also protect fine Etruscan jewellery, &c., from 
change of color while mending. 

To Frost Watch Plates.— Watch plates are frosted by means 
of fine brass wire scratch brushes fixed in a lathe, and made to 
revolve at great speed, the end of the wire brushes striking the 
plate producinga beautiful frosted appearance. 

To PREVENT WATOHBS LOSING TiME FROM ACTION OF PeNDULTTM 

Spring. — Pin the pendulum spring into the stud, so that that part, 
the part of the eye immediately emerging from the collet, and the 
centre of the collet, are in a line ; then you will have the spring 
pinned in, isa equal terms, as it is called by those who are versed 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 151 



)AJiAOR BT 



m the higher branches of springing. Bring the watch to time by 
adding tu or taking irom the balance, and poise it ; try the watch 
wiih the 12 up for 2 hours, then with the 6 up for 2 hours, then 
lying down for the same time : the trials hert described will be suffi* 
cieut if the watch has seconds ; keep the curb pins close so as to 
allow the spring only a little play ; the vibration of the balance 
should be 1^ turn or IJ lying. 

To RESTORK Watch Dials. — If the dial be painted, clean the 
figure off with spirits of wine, or anything else that will render 
the dial perfectly clean ; then heat it to a bright red, and plunge 
it into a strong solution of cyanide of potassium, then wash in 
soap and water, aqd dry in box dust. Repeat if not a good color. 
Indian ink. ground with gum water, will do for the figures. 

To MAKBA Watch Keep good Tike wabn the Gtllvdbr bdqbs 

ARE worn off, by ALTERING THE EsCAPEMENT WITHOUT PUTTING A 

NEW Cylindbr in. — Look at the cylinder, and see if there is room, 
either above or below the old wears, to shift the action of the 
wheel. If the wheel holes are brass, making one a little deeper, 
and putting a shallower one on the other side, will perhaps be s^uffi- 
cient. This must be done according as you want your wheel up 
or down. If the holes are stone, shift your wheel on the pinion by 
a new collet, or turning away more of the old one, as the case may 
require. If you raise your wheel see that it works free of plate 
and top of cylinder, and that the web of wheel clears the top of 

fiassage. This last fault may be altered by polishing passage a 
fttle wider, if rub be slight. If shifted downwards, see to freedom 
at bottom of cylinder, &c. 

Poising Watch Balance. — This may be done with suflScient accu- 
racy by scraping one arm of the callipers with a file when the balance 
is set in motion. This will cause the heaviest part to settle down- 
wards with certamiy, observing always that the pivots are nicely 
rounded and formed at the ends. In some cases it becomes neces- 
sary to put a balance out of poise, in order to make the watch go 
equally in various positions. The rule for this is : to make the 
watch gain, the balance should be heaviest on the lower side when 
hanging up ; to make it lose, the reverse. 

CocKoo Clocks. — The sound is produced by a wire acting on a 
small bellows which is connected with two small pipes, like organ 
pipes. 

To PRESERVE Pinions or Bearings from Corrosion and Rust. — In 
case of the lower centre bearing under the cannon pinion corroding 
or rusting, when you clean the watch, be particular to take the 
central wheel off. Clean it thoroughly ; if the pivot is scratched, 
polish It, then make a little hollow in the top hole ; put good fresh 
oil on It, and the pivot will not corrode or rust for two or three 
years. As to the other pivots in the watch, the^^ should all be 
thoroughly cleaned, and old oil cleaned out ; then if no dust gets in, 
and no accident happens the watch, it will run for years. 

TuE German method of Polishing Steel is performed by the use 
of crocus on a buff wheel. Nothing can exceed tho surpassing 
beauty imparted to steel or even cast iron by this process. 

To Cle-vn a Clock. — Take the movement of the clock " to 
pieces." Brush the wheels and pinions thoroughly with a stiflf 



I 






11 






III! 



i 



162 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

coarie brush; also the plates into which the trains work. Glean 
the pivots well by turning in a piece of cotton cloth held tightly 
between your thumb and finger. The pivot holes in the plates are 

fenerally cleansed by turning a piece of wood into them, but 1 
ave alwars found a strip of cloth or a soft cord drawn tightly 
through them to act the best. If you use two cords, the first 
one slightly oiled, and the next drv, to clean the oil out, all the 
better. Do not use salt or acid to clean your clock — it can do no 
good, but may do a great deal of harm. Boiling the movement in 
water, as is the practice of some, is also foolishness. 

To BuBH. — The hole through which the great arbors, or winding 
axles, work, are the only ones that usually require bushing. When 
they have oecome too much worn, the great wheel on the axle 
bofore named strikes too deeply into the pinions above it, and stops 
the clock. To remedy this, bushing is necessary, of course. The 
most common way of doing it is to drive a steel point or punch 
into the plate just above the axle hole, thus forcing the brass down- 
wards until the hole is reduced to its original size. Another mode 
is to solder a piece of brass upon the plate in such a position as to 
hold the axle down to its proper place. If you simply wish your 
Hock to run, and have no ambition to produce a bush that will look 
workmanlike, about as good a way as any is to fit a piece of hard 
wood between the post which comes through the top of the plate 
and the axle. Make it long enough to hold the axle to its proper 
place, so that the axle will run on the end of the grain. Out 
notches where the pivots come through, and secure by wrapping 
around it and the plate a piece of small wire, or a thread. I have 
known clocks to run well on this kind of bushing, botchified as it 
may appear, for ten years. 

To Remedy Worn Pinions. — Turn the leaves or rollers, so the 
worn places upon them will be towards the arbor or shaft, and 
fasten them in that position. If they are " rolling pinions," and 
you cannot secure them otherwise, you had better do it with a little 
soft solder. 

To Oil Pbopbblt.— Oil only, and very lightly, the pallets of the 
verge, the steel pin upon which the verge works, and the point 
where the loop of the verge wire works over the pendulum wire. 
Use none but the best watch oil. Though you might be working 
constantly at the clock-repairing business, a bottle costing you but 
twenty-five cents would last you two years at least. You can 
buy it at any watch-furnishing establishment. 

To Makb the Clock Strike Correctly. — If not very cautious 
in putting up your clock, you will get some of the striking-train 
wheels in wrong, and thus produce a derangement in the striking. 
If this should happen, prize the plates apart on the striking side, 
slip the pivots ol the upper wheels out, and having disconnected 
thera from the train, turn them part around and put them back." 
If still not right, repeat the experiment. A few efforts at most 
will get them to working properly. 

A Defect to look after. — Always examine the pendulum-wire 
at the point where the loop of the verge wire works over it. You 
will generally find a small notch, or at least a rough place worn 
th^re, Press it out perfectly smooth^ or your clock will not b^ 



as 
as 



use. 



rer, 



ith a little 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWEILIRS, ftO., BECEIPTS. 153 

likely to work well. Cjiall as thlfl defect may seem, ii stops a 
large number of clocks. 

FiGURBS ON Gold and Silver Dials. — Hold a small piece of cop- 
per over a gas flame for a few minutes till it is coated with soot : 
clear this off on to a piece of finely ground glass, add fat oil and 
a small quantity of oil of spike lavender, and grind up ; paint with 
a small camel hair pencil. 

Gold. — To find the number of carats of gold in an object, first 
weigh the gold and mix with seven times its weight in silver. 
This alloy is beaten into thin leaves, and nitric acid is added ; this 
dissolves the silver and copper. The remainder (gold) is then 
fused and weighed ; by comparing the first and last" weights the 
number of carats of pure gold is found. This operation is always 
repeated several times, and if any difference occurs in the result, 
all is done over again. 

Jewbll^'es' Alloys. — Eighteen-carat gold for rings. — Gold coin, 
]9i gr. ; pure copper, 3 gr. ; pure silver, \\ gr. Cieap gold^ 
twelve-carat. — Gold coin, 25 gr. ; pure copper, 13J| gr. ; pure silver, 
7 J gr. Very cheap four-carat gold. — Copper, 18 parts; gold, 4 
parts: silver, 2 parts. Imitations of gold. — 1. Platina, 4 dwt. ; pure 
copper, 2i dwt. ; sheet-zinc, 1 dwt. ; block-tin, l^ dwt. ; pure lead, 
li awt. If this should be found too hard or brittle for practical 
use, re-melting the composition with a little sal-ammoniac will 
generally render it malleable as desired. 2. Platina, 2 parts ; sil- 
ver, 1 part ; copper, 3 parts. These compositions, when properly 
prepared, so nearly resemble pure gold tnat it is very difficult to 
distinguish them therefrom. A little powdered charcoal, mixed 
with metals while melting, will be found of service. Best oroide of 
gold. — Pure copper, 4 oz. ; sheet-zinc, 1% oz. ; magnesia. 



oz. 



sal-ammonia, ^^ oz., quick-lime, -^ oz. ; cream tartar, | oz. First 
melt the copper at as low a temperature as it will melt ; then add 
the zinc, and afterwards the other articles, in powder, in the order 
named. Use a char 'oal fire to melt these metals. 
BusHiNO Alloy por FrvoT-HOLss, &o.— Gold coin, 3 dwt. ; silver, 

1 dwt. 20 gr. ; copper, 3 dwt. 20 gr. ; palladium, 1 dwt. The best 
composition known for the purpose named. 

Gold Solder for Fourteen to Sixtfbn-oarat Work. — Gold 
coin, l^dwt. : pure silver, 9 gr. ; pure copper, 6 gr. ; brass, 3 gr. 
Darker solder. — Gold coin, 1 dwt. ; pure copper, 8 gr. ; pure silver, 
5 gr. ; brass, 2 gr, ; melt together in charcoal fire. 

Solders, for Gold. — Gold, 6 dwts. ; silver, 1 dwt. copper, 

2 dw ts. Soft Gold Solder. — Gold, 4 parts ; silver, 1 part ; cop- 
per. 1 part. 

Solders for Silver.— (For the use of jewellers.) — Fine silver, 19 



dwts. ; copper, 1 dwt. ; sheet brass, 10 dwts. 



oz. 



tin, 1 oz. 



-Fiue 



sll 



White Solder for Silver. — Silver, 1 

Silver Solder, for Plaxsd Metal. 
10 dwts. 

Solders. — For Steel Joints. Silver, 19 parts; 
brass. 2 parts ; melt all together. Hard Solder. — Copper, 2 parts '; 
zinC; 1 part ; melt together. For Gold. — 1. Silver, 7 parts ; cop- 
per, 1 part, with borax. 2. Gold, 2 parts; silver, 1 part; copper, 
\ part. 3. Gold, 3 parts ; silver, 3 parts ; copper, 1 part ; zinc, | 



er, 1 oz, 



copper. 



; brass, 
1 part ; 



3-lf f I 



|.H 



wm^jir^s ^ ^■ 



m 



n 



m 



H 



iSl WATOHMAKARS, JEWJiLLEES, &C., RECEIPTS. 

fA^t. ^ot Silver.— ^iUer, 2 parts ; brags, 1 part, with borax ; 6r, 
silver, 4 parts; braas, 3 parts ; zinc, ^ oart, with borax For 
liB^asi.— Copper, 3 parts } zinc, 1 part, with ^orax For Platina. — 
Gold, With borax. For Iron. — The best solatr for iron is good 
tough b^ass, with a little borax. For Coppei.- Brass, 6 parts ; 
zinc, 1 patt ; tin, 1 part ; melt all together, mix well, and pour out 
to cool. 

Goto SotDiR^.— -1. Copper, 24.24 parts ; silver, 27.57 parts ; 
gold, 48.19 parts. 2. Enamel Solder. — Copper, 25 parts ; silvtlr, 
7.07 parts; gold, 67.93 parts. 3. Copper, 26.25 parts ; zinc, 6.25 
pat'ts; silvei', 31.25 parts ; gold, 36.25 parts. 4. Enamel Solder.-^ 
Silver, 19.57 parts ; gold, 80.43 parts. 

i3otD«R. — For 22 carat , fold. — Gold of 22 carats, 1 dwt. ; silver, 2 
gr. ; c^t>p6^ 1 gr. For 13 carat gold.— (jtoldi, of 18 carats, 1 dwt ; 
Bilver, 2 gr. ; copper, 1 gr. 

Fof cheapbr gold. — Gold, 1 dwt. ; silver, 10 gr. ; copper, 8 gr. 

Cheaper sttll. — Fine gold, 1 dWt. ; silver, 1 dwt. ; copper, 1 dwt. 

Silver Soldbrs— 1. (hard.) Copper, 30 parts; zinc, 12.85 Txivts ; 
silver, 57.15 partd. 3 Copper, 23.33 parts; zinc, 10.00 "pans; 
silver. 61^,67 parts. 4. Copper^ 26.66 parts ; ziuc, 10.00 pi ots ; 
silvei-, 63.34 parts. 4 (soft.) Copper, 14.75 parts ; zinc, 8.20 parts j 
silver, 77.05 parts. 5. Copper, 22.34 parts; zinc, 10.48 parts; sil- 
ver, 67.18 parts. 6. Tin, 63.00 parts ; lead, 37 parts. 

OoLOBSD Goto. — 1. Full red gold. — Gold, 5 dwt. ; copper, 5 dwt. 
2. Red gold. — Gold, 10 dwt. ; silver. 1 dwt. ; copper. 4 i] v 't. 3. 
Green Gold. — Gold, 5 dwt.; silver, 21 gr. 4. Gray gold.— <yoM, 3 
dwt. 15 gi*. ; silver, 1 dwt. 9 gr. 6. Blue aold. — Gold, 5 dwt.; 
steel filings, 5 dwt. 6. Antique gold, greenieh-yellow color, — Gold, 
18 dwt. 9 gr. ; silver, 21 gr. ; copi.-^r, 18 ^r. These all require to 
be subtnitted to the process of v^f * I'olprmg. 7. Factitioits ^^^^i 
very bright.— QopT^r, 16 parts ; yi-, . m; , 7 parts j zinc, 1 part | fused 
togetheh 

Alloys for Gppp. — 1. Red Jo^cf—Oopper, 66.67 parts ; gold, 
5S.33 pAifts. 2'. Yellow ^oW.— Copper, 12.50 parts; silver, 37.50 

?art3 ; gold, 50 parts. 3. Green gold.— Silver, 25 parts ; gold, 
5 parts. 4. r<'/Zow;9'<;W.— Silver, 66.67 parts ; gold, 33.33 parts. 5. 
Grdygold.—'Sil^et, 5.89 parts ; gb'd, 68.23 parts ; iron, 5.89 parts. 6. 
J)enti9t^ gold.—^WvQT, 8.34 pai-ts ; platinum, 66.67 parts ; gold, 
24.29 patt^. t. Fngltsh gold com.— Copper, 8.34 parts ; gold, 91.66 

1)arts. American gold coin. — Copper, 10 parts; gold, 90 parts.* 
•'rench gold coin same as Amerie.n. 

Alloys froR Silver Coin and Plate.— I English standards.-— 
Copper, 7.50 parts; silver, 92.50 parts. 2. American ditto. — Cop- 
per, 10 parts ; silver, 90 pa!rts. French, the same. 

Gilding Metal for common jewdllerv is made by mixing 4 parts 
ropp^r with One of calaminfe brass. Sometimes 1 lb. copper, with 
6 oz. c. brksS. 

Dentists' Plate.— *To. 1 Gold, 20 dwts. ; silver, 1 dwt. ; tfopper, 2 
»^Wts. 2i Gold, 21 , -alver, 2; copper, 1. 

jMWBLiBRfe' SoLDBniNG FLUID.— MuHatic acid, J pt. ; grain zinc, IJ 
oz. Dissolve, lOd J»,dd a little common solder and sal-ammoniac. 

Gold vfiR SpRiNCfS.—Gold, 18 dwts. 12 grs. ; siker, 6 dwts. ; cop^ 
j)tr, " ^-■ 



Jn 

Spai| 

copt 

Got 

GoU 

ture 

cent. 

54pa| 

and ' 

FaJ 
1 par] 
fine, 
centr^ 

Hi 
blegc 
inum. 



dwtH. 



liili 



,m-v 



IIPTS. 

th borax j or, 
borax For 

'or Ftatina. — 
iron 13 good 

ass, 6 parts ; 
and pour out 

27.57 parts; 
parts ; silver, 
:ts ; zinc, 6.25 
mel Solaer.-^ 

Iwt. ; silver, 2 
arats, I dwt j 

)pper, 8gr. 
copper, 1 o\7i. 
c, 12.85 T)a:t3 ; 
10.00 p^ns ; 
, 10.00 p'-.'ts; 
nc, 8.20 parts ; 
►.48 parts; sil- 

copper, 5 dwt. 
3er, 4 Cvn. 3. 
>ok-"Gold, 3 
Gold, 5 dwt. ; 
[> color. — Gold, 
all require to 
'actitious gold. 
1 part ; fused 

parts ; gold, 

silver, 37.50 

parts; gold, 

33.33 parts. 5. 

5.89 parts. 6. 

parts; gold, 

; gold, 91.66 

lid, 90 parts.* 

standards.-— 
ditto.— Co^' 

fixing 4 parts 
copper, with 

rt. ; <!opper, 2 

rrain zinc, 1^ 
il-ammoniac. 
Is dwts. J cop* 



WATCHMAKERS, JBWEtLBRS," &0., REOWI'TS. '" 165 

JiWF'LiRs' GoiDCoKPOSimoNB.— C?om«ion Oold: Silver, 1 part ; 
Spanish copper, 16 parts ; gold, 2 parts ; mix. Minff Gold: Spanish 
copper, 6 parts; ailyer, 3 partN; gold, 5 parts; mix. Manheim 
Ootd: copper, 3 parts ; sine, 1 part. Melt, and stir iirell. Mosaic 
Gold: copper and sine, equal parts; melt at the lowest tempera- 
ture that will fuse the former, tiien mix by stirring, and add 5 per 
cent, more zinc. Parker's Mosaic Gold : copper, 100 parts ; zinc, 
54 psrts. For eommon Jewellery : copper, 3 parts ; 1 of old brass, 
and <1 oz. of tin to every lb. of copper. 

Factitious Gold. — Copper, 16 parts ; platinum. 7 parts ; zinc, 
1 part ; fused together. This alloy resembles gold of 16 carata 
fine, or §, and will resist the action of nitric acid, unless very con- 
centrated and boiling. 

Harmstadt^b True Imitation of Gold is stated not onlv to resem- 
ble gold in color, but also in specific gravity and ductility. Plat- 
inum, 16 parts ; copper, 7 parts ; zinc, 1 part ; put it in a crucible, 
cover with charcoal powder, and melt into a mass. 

Do. OF SiLVBR. — Copper, i oz. ; brass, 2 oz. ; pure silver, 3 oz. ; 
bismuth, 2 oz. ; saltpetre, 2 oz. ; common salt, 1 oz. ; arseni<;, 1 
oz. : potash, 1 oz. ; melt in a crucible with powdered char- 
coal. This compound, was by a German chemist for unlawful 
purposes, was so perfect that ne waS never discovered. 

Artificial Gold. — This is a neW me+allic alloy which is now 
very extensively used in Prance as a Eubstitute for gold. Pure 
copper, 100 parts ; zinc, or, preferably, tin, 7 parts ; magnesia, 6 
parts; sal-ammoniac. 3-6 parts; quick-lime, ^ part; tartar of 
commerce, 9 parts ; are mixed as follows: The copper is first 
melted, and the magnesia, sal-ammoniac, lime and tartar are then 
added separately, and by degrees, in the form of powder; the 
whole is now briskly stirred for about J an hour, so as to mix thor- 
oughly ; and then the zinc is added in small grains by throwing 
it on tne surface, and stirring till it is entirely fus2d : the crucible 
is then covered, and thet^ fusion maintained for about 35 minutes. 
The surface is then skimmed, and the alloy is ready for casting. 
It has a fine grain, is malleable, and takes a splendid polish. It 
does not corrode readily, and, for many purposes, is an excellent 
substitute for gold. When tarnished, its brilliancy can be restored 
by a little acidulated wal^r. If tin be employed instead of ^inC, 
the alloy will be more brilliant. It is very much used iu. France, 
and must ultimately attain equal popularity here. 

New French Patent Alloy for Silver. — Messieurs De Ruolte 
4 Fontenay have invented the following alloy, which may be used 
for almost all purposes in which silver is usually applied. Silver, 
20 parts ; purified nickel, 28 parts ; copper, 52 parts. Melt thb 
copper and nickel in the granular state, then introduce the silveir. 
The flux to be employed is charcoal alia borax, both in the state of 
powder; and tlie ingots obtained are to be rendered malleable by 
annealing for •, v o jyii crable time in powdered charcoal. 

tOR &LVBR. — Pure silver, 11 on. 2 dwts. j 



E.VCrLIBH S",V»S:,fA»i, 

copper, 22 dr.'ta. : n»e 

BlLVKR iMTTA'aONt.' 

position will roll and 
copper, 1 lb. ; tin, 1 i 



^■Jopper, 1 lb. ; tin, 5 oz. ; melt. This con*, 
ing very nefir to silver. Britannia Metal : 
1. ; reguluB of antimoEy, 2 lbs. ; meit toge- 




ih 



h 






<: > ••■' 



Wo" WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &0,, RECEIPTS. 



il:!; 



a . I 



Oenuine Oerman Silver: 
25i parts; copper, 40| 
iron, 1 part ; nickel, 10 



ther, with or without a little bismuth. 
irc!i, 2} parts ; nickel, Zl\ parts ; zinc, 
par ..a ; melt. Fine White German Silver • . . . 
parts; zinc, 10 parts ; copper, 20 parts; inelt. .Pinchbeck: copper, 
5 parts; zinc, 1 part ; melt the copper, then add the zinc. Jewel- 
ler^ Metal : copper, 30 parts : tin, 7 parts ; brass, 10 parts ; mix. 

French Gold Platb. — 1» Gold, 92 parts; copper, 8 parts. 2. 
Gold, 84 parts ; copper, 16 parts. 3. Gold, 75 parts ; copper, 25 
parts. 

fiiDBRT.— Copper, 48.48 parts ; tin, 6.60 parts ; zinc, 33.80 parts ; 
lead, 12.12 parts. 

Bbst Brass fob Clocks.— Rose copper, 85 parts ; zinc, 14 parts ; 
lead, 1 part. 

AiiLOY FOR Watch Pinion Sockets.— Gold, 31 parts ; silver, 19 
parts ; copper, 39 parts ; palladium, 1 part. 

Pickle, for Frosting and Whitening Silver Goods.— Sulphuric 
acid, 1 dr. ; water, 4 oz. ; heat the pickle, and immerse the silver in 
it until frosted as desired ; then wash oflr clean, and dry with a soft 
linen cloth, or in fine clean sawdust. For whitening only, a smaller 
proportion of acid may be used. 

Etruscan Gold Coloring. — Alum, 1 oz. ; fine table-salt, 1 oz, ; 
saltpetre (powdered), 2 oz. ; hot rain-waiier, sufficient to make the 
solution, when dissolved, about tbo consistency of thick ale ; then 
add sufficient muriatic acid to produce the color desired. The 
degree of success must always depead, in a greater or less degree, 
upon iliH skill or judgment of the operator. The article to be co- 
lored should be irom fourteen to eighteen carats fine, of pure gold 
and copper only, and be free from coatings of tin or silver solder. 
The solution m beat i^sed warm, and when freshly made the prin- 
ciple on which It acts is to eat out the «opper alloy from the sur- 
face of the iiriicle, leaving thereon pure, frosted gold only. After 
coloring, wash oflF, fijrst in rain-water, then iu alcohol^ and dry 
without rubbing, in fine clean sawdust. Fine Etruscan jewellery, 
that has beeixdeiaced or tarnished by use, may be perfectly renewed 
by the sar a process. 

Tabk ?h on Electro-Plate Goobb may be removed by immers- 
ing the article from one to ien or fifteen minutes, or until the tar- 
u'dh has bd ?n removed, but no longer, in the following solution : 
Rrii;..wale'.', ?. gals. ; cyanuret potassa, ^ lb. ; dissolve, and put 
into a ti- .Jl« / g or jar and closely cork. After immersion, the 
articles muf t h«: taken out and thoroughly rinsed in two or three 
waters, ther^ dl^ 'd wito a soft Hii«n cloth, or, if fro^^ted or chased 
work, with fine clean sawdust. Tarnished jewellery may be speed- 
ily restored bj^ tnis process ; but make sure work of removing the 
alkali, otherwise it will corrode the goods. 

A Bright Gold Tinge may be given to silver by steeping il for 
a suitable length of time in a weak solution of sulphuric acid and 
water strongly impregnated with iron-rust. 

To Refine Gold. — If you desire to refine your gold from the 
baser metals, swedge or roll it out very thin^ tnen cut into narrow 
strips and curl up so as to prevent its lying fiatly. Drop the pieces 
thus prepared into a vessel containing good nitric acid, in the pro- 
{tortiwi of acid, 2 oz., and pure raik«water, f oz. Suffer to remain 



un 
to 
gol 
ves 
tast 
Gol 
h 



irts; copper, 25 
nc, 33.80 parts ; 
I zinc, 14 parts ; 
parts ; silver, 19 



'■""^ WXtCHMAKEBS, JEWflLlRS, Ad"' RECEIPTS. 157 

until thoroughly dissolved, which will be the case in from h an hour 
to 1 hoar. Then pour oflF the liquid carefully, and you wiUfind the 
gold, in the form of a vellow powdcrj lying at the bottom of the 
vessel. Wash this with pure water till it ceases to have an acid 
taste, after which you may melt and casl into any form you choose. 
Gold treated in this way may be relipd on as perfectly pure. 

In melting gold' use none other than a charcoal fire, and during 
the process sprinkle saltpetre and potash into the crucible occasion- 
ally. Do not attempt to melt with stone coal, as it renders the 
metal brittle and otherwise imperfect. 

To Refine Silver. — Dissolve in nitric acid as in the case of the 
gold. When the silver has entirely disappeared, add to the 2^ oz. 
of solution nearly 1 quart of pure rain-water. Sinlc, then, a sheet of 
clean copper into it j the silver will collect rapidly upon the copper, 
and you can scrape it off and melt into bulk at pleasure. 

In the event of your refining gold in accordance with the fore- 
going formula, and the impurity was silver, the only steps neces- 
sary to save the latter would be to add the above named propor- 
tion of water to the solution poured from the gold, and then to 
proceed with your copper plate as just directed. 

To Refine Copper.— This process differs from the one employed to 
refine silver in no resPects save the plate to be immersed ; you use 
an iron instead of a copper plate to collect the metal. 

If the impurities of gold refined were both silver and copper, you 
might, after saving the silver as above directed, sink your iron plate 
into the solution yet remaining, and take out the copper. The 
parts of alloyed gold may be separated by these processes, and 
leave each in a perfectly pure state. 

Cold Silvering op Metals. — Mix 1 part of chloride of silver 
with 3 parts of pearlash, li parts common salt, and 1 part 
whiting ; and well rub the mixture on the surface of brass or copper 
(previousli^ well cleaned), by means of a piece of soft leather, or 
a cork moistened with water and dipped in the powder. When 
properly silvered, the metal should be well washed in hot water, 
slightly alkalized ; then wiped dry. 

To Heighten the Color of Yellow Gold. — Saltpetre, 6 oz. ; 
green copperas, 2 oz. ; white vitriol and alum, of each 1 oz. If 
wanted redder, a small quantity of blue vitriol must be added. 

For Green Gold. — Saltpetre, 1 oz. 10 dwts. ; sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. 
4 dwts. ; Roman vitriol, 1 oz. 4 dwts. ; verdigris, 18 dwts. 

To Clean Gilt Jewellery. — Boiling water in a clean flask, ^ pt. ; 
cyanide of potassium, 1 oz. ; shake the ftask to dissolve the potas- 
sium. Add, when cold, liquor ammonia, J oz. ; rectified alcohol, 1 
oz. Used by brushing over gilded articles. 

Coloring Jewellery. — Boil the articles in a dilute solution of 
tercliloride of gold, to which some bicarbonate of soda has been 
added. 

Coloring or' Gilding. — Defective colored gilding may also be 
improved by the help of the following mixture : nitrate of potash, 
3 oz. ; alum, 1^ oz. ; sulphate of zinc, IJ oz. ; common salt, 1 J oz. 
These ingredients are to be put into a small quantity of water to 
form a sort of paste, which is put upon the articles to be colored ; 
they are tken placed upon an iron plate over a ci<iar fire, so that 



M 



158 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLEIIS, &C., RECEIPTS. 

they will attain nearly to a black heat, when tbev are suddenly 
plunfred into cold water; thi3 gives them a beautiful high color. 
Different hues may be had by a variation in the mixture. 

For Red Gold.— To 4 oz. melted yellow wax, add, in fine 
powder, Ij oz. of red ochre ; IJ oz. veraigris, calcined till it yields 
no fumes ; and J oz. of calcined borax. Mix them well together. 
Dissolve either of above mixtures in water, as the color is wanted, 
and use as required. 

Gold is taken from the surface of silver by spreading over it a 
paste made of powdered sal-ammoniac, with aquafortis, and heat- 
ing it till the matter smokes, and it is nearly dry ; when the gold 
may be separated by rubbing it with a scratch brush. 

iiouLDS AND Dies. — Copper, zinc, and silver in equal proportions ; 
melt together under a coat of powdered charcoal, and mould into 
the form you desire. Bring them to nearly a white heat, and lay 
on the thing you would take the impression of, press with sufficient 
force, and you will get a perfect and beautiful impression. 

Polishing Powder for Gold and Silver. — Rock alum burnt and 
finely powdered, 5 parts j levigated chalk, 1 part. Mix ; apply with 
a dry brush. 

Silver-Plating Fluid. — Dissolve 1 ounce of nitrate of silver, in 
crystals, in 12 ounces of soft water ; then dissolve in the water 2 oz. 
cyanuret of potash ; shake the whole together, and let it stand till 
it becomes clear. Have ready some half-ounce vials, and fill half 
fVill of Paris white, or fine whiting ; and then fill up the bottles 
with the liquor, and it is ready for use. The whitmg does not 
increase the coating powder ; it only helps to clean the articles, and 
save tL>e silver fluid, by half filling the bottles. 

Jew.'jller"' Armenian Cement. — Isinglass soaked m water and 
dissolved m spirit, 2 oz. (thic'') ; dissolve in this 10 grs. of very 
pale gum ammonia (in tears) by rubbing them together : then add 
6 large tears of gum mastic, dissolved in the leaat possiblPquantity 
of rectified spirit. When carefully made, this cement resists 
moisture and dries colorless. Keep in a closely stopped phial. 

Jewbllers' Turkish Cement. — Put into a bottle 2 oz. or isinglass 
and 1 OB. ef the best gum arable ; cover them with proof spirits, 
cork loo9«ly, and place the bottle in a vessel of water, and boil it 
till a thorough solution is effected ; then strain for use ; best cement 
known, 

Revhtb for Old Jewellery. — Dissolve sal-ammoniac in urine 
and put the jewellery in it for a short time ; then take it out, an(JS 
rub with chamois leather, and it will appear equal to new. 

To Recover Gold from Gilt Metal. — Take a solution of borax 
water, apply to the gilt surface, and sprinkle over it some finely 
powdered s'ulphur ; make the article red hot, and quench it in 
water ; then scrape off the gold, and recover it by means of 
lead. 

To Sbharate Gold and Silver from Lace, &c. — Cut in pieces 
the gold or silrer lace, tie it tightly, and boil it in soap lye till the 
size appears diminished ; take the cloth out of the liquid, and, 
after repeated rinsings in cold water, beat it with a mallet to draw 
out all the alkali Open the linen, and the pure metal will 
be found in all its beauty ' 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, *C., RECEIPTS. 159 

To Hard Soldbr Gold, Silvbr, Ooppbr, Brass, Iron, Stbkl or 
Plaimna. — The solders to be uaed for gold, silver, copper and brass 
are given in the preceding part. You commence operations by 
reducing your solder to small particles, and mixing it with 
powdered sal-ammoniac and powdered borax in equal parts, moist- 
ened to make it hold together. Having fitted up the joint to be 
soldered, you secure the article upon a piece of soft charcoal, lay 
your soldering mixture immediately over the joint, and then witn 
your blow-pipe turn the flame of your lamp upon it until fusion 
takes place. The job is then done, and ready to be cooled and 
dressed up. 

Iron is usually soldered with copper or brass in accr dance with 
the above process. The best solder for steel is pure gold or pure 
silver, though gold or silver solders are often used successflilly. 

Platina can only be soldered well with gold ; and the expense of 
it, therefore, contributes to the hindrance of a general use of platina 
vessels, even for chemical purposes, where they are of so much 
importance. 

To Soft Soldbk Articles. — Moisten the parts to be united with 
soldering fluid ; then, having joined them together, lay a small 
piece of solder upon the joint and hold over yiour lamp, or direct 
the blaze upon it with your blow-pipe until fusion is apparent. 
Withdraw them from the blaze immediately, as too much heat will 
render the solder brittle and unsatisfactory. When the parts to be 
joined can be made to spring or press against each otherj it is best 
to place a thin piece of solder between tnem before exposing to the 
lamp. 

Where two smooth surfaces are to be soldered one upon the other, 
you may make an excellent iol^ by moistening them with the fluid, 
and then, having placed a sheet of tin foil between them, holding 
them pressed firmly together over your lamp till the foil melts. If 
the surfaces fit nicely, a Joint be may made in this way so close as 
to be almost imperceptible. The brightest looking lead which 
comes as a lining to tea boxes works better in the same way than 
tin foil. 

To Cleanse Gold Tarnished in SoldbriWo. — The old English' 
mode was to expose all parts of the article to a uniform heat, allow 
it to cool, and then boil until bright in urine and sal-ammoniac. It 
is now usually cleansed with diluted sulphuric acid. The pickle 
is made in about the proportion of one-eighth of an dunce acid to 
one ounce rain water. 

To Cleanse Silver TabnishIid in Soldering. — Some expose to 
a uniform heat, as in the case of gold, and then boil in strong 
alum water. Others immerse Jbr a considerable length of time in 
a liquid made of i oz. of cyannret potassa to 1 pint rain Water, and 
then brush off with prepared chalk. 

Beautiful Bronze for Leather. — Dissolve a little of the so- 
called insoluble anaKne violet in a little water, and brush the solu- 
tion over the leather ; after it dries, repeat the process. 

Nickel-plating. — The following is the substance ©f the patent 
granted to Dr. Isaac Adams, March 22,1870. The pro cess is highly 
successful. " This improvement consists in the use of 3 new 
solutions from whith to deposit nickel by the electric current. 



jfli 



m 



liT 



IF(r -WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 4C., RECEIPTS. 

1. A solution formed of the double sulphate of nickel and alumina, 
or the sulphate of nickel dissolved in a solution of sudn, potash. 
or ammonia alum^ the three diiferent varieties of commercial 
alum. 2. A solution formed of the double sulphate of niclcel 
and potash. 3. A solution formed of the double sulphate of 
nickel and magnesia, with or without an excess of ammo- 
nia. I have found that a good coating of nickel can be depo- 
sited from the solutions before mentioned, provided they are pre- 
pared and used in such a manner as to be free from any acid or 
alkaline reaction. When these solutions are used, great eare most 
be taken, lest by the use of too high battery power, or from tho 
introduction of some foreign matters, the solution becomes acid or 
alkaline. I prefer to use these solutions at a temperatare above 
100^ Fah., but do not limit my invention to the use of these solu- 
tions at that temperature. I therefore claim, 1. The electro depo- 
sition of nickel by means of a solution of tne doublo sulphate of 
nickel and alumina, prepared and used in such a manner as to be 
free from the presence of ammonia, potash, soda, lime, or nitric 
^ acid, or from any acid or alkaline reaction. 2. The electro deposi- 
tion of nickel by means of a solution of the dbuble sulphate of 
nickel and potash, prepared and used in such a manner as to bn 
free from the presence of ammonia, soda, alumina, lime or nitric 
acid, or from any acid or alkaline reaction. 3 The electro depo- 
sition of nickel by means of a solution of the double sulphate of 
nickel and magnesia, prepared and used in such a manner as to be 
free from the presence of potash, soda, alumina, lime or nitric acid, 
or from any acid or alkaline reaction. " 

To MAKB Silver Solution for ELBCXRO-PLATiNG.—Put together 
into a glass vessel 1 oz. good silver, made thin and cut into strips ; 
2 oz. best nitric acid, and i| oz. pure rain water. If solution does 
not begin at once, add a little more water — continue to add a very 
little at a time till it docij. In the event it starts off well, bui stops 
before the silver is fully dissolved, you may generally start it up 
again all right by adding a little more water. 

When solution is entirely effected, add 1 quart of warm rain 
water and a large tablespoonful of table salt. Shake well and let 
settle, then proceed to pour off and wash through other waters ag 
in the case of the gold preparation. When no longer acid to the 
taste, put in an ounce and an eighth cyanuret potassa and a quart 
pure rain water ; after standing about 24 hours, it will be ready for 
use. 

To MAKB Gold Solution for Elbctro-Platino.— Dissolve five 
pennyweights gold coin, 5 grains pure copper, and 4 grains pure 
silver in 3 oz. nitro-muriatic acid ; which is simply 2 parts muriatic 
acid and 1 part nitric acid. The silver will not be taken into so- 
lution as are the other 2 metals, but will gather at the bottom of 
the vessel. Add 1 oz. pulverized sulphate of iron, J oz. pulverized 
borax, 25 grains pure table salt, and 1 quart hot rain water. Upon 
tills the gold and copper will be thrswn to the bottom of the 
vessel with the silver. Let stand till fully settled, then pour off 
the liquid carefully, and refill with boiling rain water as before. 
" Continue t« repeat this operation until the precipitate is thorough- 
ly washed \ or, in other words, fill up, let settle, und pour off sq 



PTS. 



WATOHHAEIRS, JEWALLSRB, A0„ RIOBIPTS, 16l 



id alumina, 
ift, potash, 
jommercial 

of niclcel 
julphate of 

of ammo- 
,n be dopo- 
ey are pre- 
my acid or 
kt eare most 
jr from tho 
mea acid or 
it«e above 
' thf Be Bolu- 
lectro depo- 

sulphate of 
ner as to be 
le, or nitric 
ictro deposi- 

Bulphate of 
ner as to bo 
me or nitri(i 
lectro depo- 

sulphate of 
iner as to bo 
r nitric acid, 

ut together 

into strips ; 

)lution does 

p add a very 

lUj but stops 

start it up 

warm rain 
yell and let 
er waters as 

acid to the 
[and a quart 

DC ready for 

dissolve five 
igrains pure 
Irts muriatic 
T:en into so- 
i bottom of 
pulverized 
Uter. Upon 
ttom of the 
ben pour off 
as before. 
J thorough- 
[pour off so 



long as the accumQlation at the bottom of the vessel is acid to the 
taste. 

You now have about an 18 carat chloride of gold. Add to it an 
ounce and an eighth cyanuret potassa. and 1 quart rain water — the 
latter heated to the boiling point. Snake up well, then let stand 
about 24 hours, and it will be ready for use. 

Some use platina as an allopr instead of silver, under the impres- 
sion that plating done with it is harder. I have used both, but 
never could see much difference. 

Solution for a darker colored plate to imitate Guinea gold may 
be made by adding to the above 1 oz. of dragon's blood and 5 grs. 
iodide of iron. 

If you desire an alloyed plate, proceed as first directed, without 
the 3il ver or copper, and with an ounce and a half of sulphuret 
potassa in place of the iron, borax, and salt. 

To PiiATB WITH A Battbry. — If the plate is to be gold, use the 
gold solutionifor electro-plating ; if silver, use the silver solution. 
Prepare the article to bf plated bv immersing it for several min- 
utes in a strong lye made of potasn and rain-water, polishing off 
thoroughly at the end of the time with a soft brush and prepared 
chalk. Care should be taken not to let the fingers come in con- 
tact with the article while polishing, as that has a tendency to 
prevent the plate from adhering ; it should be held in two or thre* 
thicknesses of tissue paper. 

Attach the article, when thoroughly cleansed, to the positive 
pole of your battery, then affix a piece of gold or silver, as tlie case 
may be, to the negative pole, and immerse both into the solution 
in such a way as not to hang in contact with each other. 

After the article has been exposed to the action of the batterv 
about ten minutes, take it out and wash or polish over with a thick 
mixture of water and prepared chalk or jeweller's rouge. If, in the 
operation, you find places where the plating seems inclined to peel 
off, or when it has not taken well, mix a little of the plating solu- 
tion with prepared chalk or rou^e, and rub the defective part 
thoroughly with it. This will be likely to set all right. 

Govern your time of exposing the article to the oattery by the 
desired thickness of the plate. During the time, it should be taken 
out and polished up as just directed about very ten minutes, or 
as often at least as there is an indication of a growing darkness on 
any part of its surface. When done, finish with the burnisher on 
prepared chalk and chamois skin, as best suits your taste and con- 
venience. 

In case the article to be plated is iron^ steel, lead, pewter, or 
block tin, you must, after first cleaning with the lye and chalk, 
prepare it by applying with a soft brush— a camel's hair pencil is 
best suited»-a solution made of the following articles in lae pro- 
portio' named :— Nitric acid, J oz. ; muriatic acid, i oz. ; sulphuric 
aeid, i-9th oz. ; muriate of potash, l-7th oz. ; sulphate of iron, ^ 
oz. ; sulphuric ether, l-5th oz. ; and as much sheet zinc as it wiU 
dissolve. This prepares a foundation, without which the pUte 
would fail to take well, if at all. 

To MAKB Gold Amaloam.— Eight parts of gold and one of mer- 
eury are forzaed into an amalgam fof plating, hj reMderiag tht 



Q 



:i:- 



m 



it 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 








y. 



% 



1.0 



I.I 



I^i2^ 12.5 
M Hill 2.0 



2.2 



1.8 





L25 |U 


II 1.6 




^ 


6" — 




!► 



V. 



m 




/ 






v» ^- V 






/> 



c» 



p 





-<^ 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WE3STER,N.Y. M580 

(716) 872-4503 




'"/. 



,.<!' 






l/.x 



fA 




nil 



III: 



162 WATCHMAKERS, JXWELLfiRB, ftO., BXOXIPT0, 

jTold into tbin plates, making it red hot and then puttins it into 
the mercury while the latter is also heated to ebullition. The gold 
immediately disappears in combination with the mercury, utes 
which the mixture may be turned into water to cool. It is then 
ready for use. 

To Platb with Gold Amalgam.— Gold amalgam is chiefly used 
as a plating for silver, copper or brass. The article to.be plated is 
washed over with diluted nitric acid or potash lye and prepared 
chalK, to remove any tarnish or rust that might prevent the amalgam 
from adhering. After having been polished perfectly bright, the 
amalgam is applied as evenly as possible, usually with a fine scratch 
brush. It is then set upon a grate over a charcoal fire, or placed 
into an oven and heated to that degree at which mercury exhales. 
The gold, when the mercury has evaporated, presents a dull yellov^ 
color. Cover it with a coating of pulverized nitre and alum in 
equal part?, mixed to a paste with water, and heat aeain till it ig 
thoroughly melted, then plunge into water. Burnish up with a 
steel or bloodstone burnisher. 

To Mass and Apply Gold-Platino Solution.— Dissolve i oz. of 
gold amalffam in 1 oz. of nitro-muriatic acid. Add 2 oz. of alco- 
hol, and then, having brightened the article in the usual way, 
apply the solution with a soft brush, itinse and dry in sawdust, or 
with tissue paper, and polish up with chamois skin. 

To Make and Apply Gold-Platino Powders.— Prepare a chlo- 
ride of gold the same as n for plating with a battery. Add to it 
when t*-. 1 ^hly washed out, cyanuret potassa in a proportion of 
2 oz. * ■■ S penny weiehts of gold. Pour in a pint of clean rain 
water, shakp up well and then let stand till the chloride is dis- 
solved. Add then I lb. of prepared Spanish whiting and let eva- 
porate in the open air till dry, after which put away in a tight 
vessel for use. To apply it you prepare the article in the usual 
way, and having made the powder into a paste with Water, rub it 
upon the surface with a piece of chamois skin or cotton flannel. 

An old mode of making a gold-plating powder was to dip clean 
linen rags into solution prepared as in the second article preceding 
this, and having dried, to fire and burn them into ashes. The 
&8hes formed the powder, and were to be applied as above. 

To Make and Apply Silvbb-Platino Solution. — Put together in 
a glass vessel 1 oz. nitrate of silver, 2 oz. cyanuret potassa, 4 oz. 
prepared Sphnish whiting, and 10 oz. pure rain water. Cleanse the 
article to be plated as ner preceding directions, and apply with a 
soft brush. Finish with the chamois skin or burnisher. 

To Make and Apply Silver-Platino Powder.— Dissolve silver 
in nitric acid by the aid of heat ; put some pieces of copper into 
the solution to precipitate the silver ; wash the acid outin the usual 
"ray: then, with 15 grains of it mix 2 drams of tartar, 2 drams 
of table salt, and * dram of pulverized alum. Brighten the article 
to be plated with lye ahd prepared chalk, and rub on the mixture. 
When it has assumed a white appearance, exp#e to heat as in the 
case of plating with gOld amalgam, then polish up with the bur- 
nisher or soft leather. 

To Enamel Gold or Silvir.— Take * pennyweight of silver, 2 J 
pennyweights of copper, 3| pennyweights of lead, and 2| penny- 



«ty; 
shelU 



WATOHMAKfitW, JEWELLERS* AO., RECEIPTS. 163 

weifcbts of muriate 6t tmrnouia. M6lt together, and pour into a 
crucible with twice as much pulverized sulphur; the crucible is 
then to be immediately covered that the sulphur may not take fire, 
and the mixture is to be Oaldned oter a smelting fire until the 
superfluous sulphur is burned away, ^he compound is then to be 
coarsely pounded, and, with a Solution of muriate of ammonia, to 
be formea into a paste which is to be placed upon the article it is 
designed to enamel. The article must then b^ held over a spirit 
lamp till the compound upon itmeltS and flows. After this It may 
be smoothed and polished up in safety. This makes the black 
enamel now so much used On jewellery. 

To Dhstrot tbb EFFBots Of AoiD OR Ctotfilcs. — ^Daiidpen as soon 
as possible, after exposure to the acid, 'frith Spirits ammonia. It 
will destroy the effect immediately. 

To Wash Silvbbwa]^.— Never us6 ^ particle of soap on your 
silverware, as it dulls the lustre, givib^ the article more the 
appearance Of pewter thah silver. When it wants cleaning, rub it 
with a piece of soft leather and prepared chalk, the latter made 
into a kind of paste with pure water, foir the reason th^t water not 
pure might contain gritty particles. 

To Clbansb Brubebs. — The best method of cleansing watch- 
makers' and jewellers' brushes is to wash them out in strong soda 
water. When the backs are wood, you must favor that part aj 
much as possible : for being glued^ the water may itajure them. 

To Out Glass Round ob Oval Without a Diahond.— Scratch the 
glass around the shape you desire with the corner of a file or gra- 
ver ; then, having bent a piece of wire in the same shape, heat it 
red hot and lay it upon the scratch, sink the glass into cold water 
just deep enough for the water to come almost on a level with its 
upper surface. It will rarely ever fail to break perfectly true. 

To Rb-Black Olook Hands. — Use aspbaltum varnish. One coat 
will make old rusty hands look as good as ii6w, and it dries in a 
few minutes. 

To Gild Stebl. — Pour some of the ethereal solution of gold into 
a wineglass, and dip into it the blade of a new penknife, razor, 
lancet, Ac. ; withdraw the instrument, and allow the ether to 
evaporate. The blade will then be found covered with a beautiful 
coat of gold. The blade may be moistened with a clean rag, or a 
small piece of very dry sponge dipped in the ether, and the same 
effects will be produced. 

Silvering Shells. — Silver-leaf and gum Water a sufficient quan- 
tity : grind to a proper thickness, and cover the inside of the 
shells. For a Gold Color, grind up gold-leaf With gum water, 
and apply to the inside of the shells. 

Liquid Foil fob Silvbrino Glass Globbs, &o. — Lead, 1 part ; 
tin, 1 part ; bismuth, 1 part : melt, and, just before it sets, add mer- 
cury, 10 parts. Pour this into the globe, and turn it rapidly round. 

Silvbr-Platbbs' Stripping Liquid.— Sulphuric acid, 8 parts ; nitre, 
1 part. Used to recover silver from old plated ware. 

To Silver Olook-PAcbs, etc.— Old silver lace, | oi. ; nitrifc 
acid, 1 oz. Boil them over a gentle fire for about 5 minutes in an 
earthen pot. After the silver is dissolved, take the mixture off, and 
mix it in a pint of clettn wtiter, then pour it into anethet tenel 



1 


i 5' . 


m 


'W 


' ■ ii 


' '■*4<*iPi 


' 1 • ' 


!' if 1 




r :■ 
i: !> 

|1 r 


1 


1 




n 



-/ 



\i\ 

( 

I 



i 



?l 



I '>!! 



'if! 



m 



164 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 40., RECEIPTS, 

free from sediment ; then add a tablespoonfol of common salt, 
and the silver wUl be precipitated m the form of a "white powder 
or curd ; pour off the acid, and mix the curd with 2 oz. salt of tar- 
tar, and i oz. whiting, all together, and it is ready for use. To 
Ubb. — Clean your brass or copper plate with rotten stone and a 
piece of old hat ; rub it with salt and water with your hand. Then 
take a little of the composition on your finger, and rub it oyer 
your plate, and it will firmly adhere and completely silver it. 
Wash it well with water. When dry, rub it with a clean rag, and 
varnish with this varnish tor olook-faobs. Spirits of wine, 1 pt. ; 
divide into three parts, mix one part with gum-mastic in a bottle 
by itself; 1 part spirits and ^ oz. sandarach in another bottle ; and 
1 part spirits ana ^ oz. of whitest gum benjamin, in another bot- 
tle ; mix and temper to your mind. If too thin, some mastic ; if 
too soft, some sandarach or benjamin. When you use it, warm 
the silvered plate before the fire, and, with a flat camel' S'hair pen-< 
cil, stroke it over till no white streaks appear, and this will pre^ 
serve the silvering for many years. 

♦ RsriNiNa Gold and Silver. — The art of assaying gold and silver 
is founded upon the feeble affinity which these have for oxygen in 
comparison with copper, tin, and other cheap metals, and on the 
tendency which the latter metals have to oxidize rapidly in con- 
tact witn lead at a high temperature, and sink wit i it into any 
porous, earthy vessel in a thin, glassy, vitrified mas?. The precious 
metal having previously been accurately weighed and prepared, 
the first process is Cupbllation. The muffle^ witii cupel properly 
arranged on the " miMe platCj" is placed in the furnace, and the 
charcoal added, and lighted at the top by means of a few ignited 
pieces thrown on last. After the cupels have been exposed to a 
strong white heat for about half an hour, and have become white 
hot, the lead is put into them by means of tongs. As soon as this 
becomes bright red and " circulating" as it is called, the specimen 
for assay, wrapped in a small piece of paper or lead-foil, is added ; 
the fire is now kept up strongly until the metal enters the lead 
and " circulated* well, when the heat, slightly diminished, is so 
regulated that the assay appears convex and more glowing than 
the cupel itself, whilst the " undulatiom^' circixl&iQ in all directions, 
and the middle of the metal appears smooth, with a margin of 
litharge, wbich is freely absorbed by the cupel. When the metal 
becomes bright and shining, or, m technical ItkAguage, begins 
to " lighten," and prismatic hues suddenly flash across the globules, 
and undulate and cross each other, followed by the metal becom< 
ing very brilliant and clear, and at length bright and solid (called 
the brightening), the separation is ended, and we process complete. 
The cupels are then drawn to the mouth of the " muffle," and 
allowed to cool slowly. When quite cold, the resulting " button,^' 
if of silver, is removed by the " pliers" or " tongs" from the cupels, 
and, after being flattened on a small anvil qf polished steel, with a 
polished steel hammer, to detach adhering oxide of lead, and 
cleaned with a small, hard brush, is very accurately weighed. The 
woght is that of pure silver, and the difSsrence between the weight 
kreme emiellation and that of the pure metal represents the propor- 
Iffn ^ pkUo^ in the sample examined. Iq the eaie of qobp^ th« meU^l 



WATOHMAEERS, JEWELLERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 165 

bas next to underffo the operations of quartation. The cupelled 
sample is fused with 3 times its weight of pure silver, (called the 
"witnetif'), by which the gold is reduced to one-fourth of the mass, 
less, and in this state may easily be remoTcd by parting. The 
alloy, after quartation, is hammered or rolled out into a thin strip 
or leaf, curled into a spiral form, and boiled for a quarter of an 
hour with about 2J to 3 oz. of nitric acid (specific gravity, 1.3) ; 
and the fluid being poured off, it is again boiled in a similar man- 
ner, with li to 2 oz. more nitric acid (sp. gr., 1.2) ; after which the 
gold is carefully collected, washed in pure water, and dried. 
When the operation of parting is skilfully conducted, the acid not 
too strong, the metal preserves its spiral form ; otherwise it falls 
into flakes or powder. The second boiling is termed the " repriseJ* 
Tb'e loss of weight by parting corresponds to the quantity of silvbb 
originally in the specimen. 

For Allots Containing Platinum, which usually consist of 
copper, silver, platinum, and ^old. the method of assaying is as 
follows : The alloy is cupelled in tne usual way, the loss of weight 
expresses the amount of copper, and the " button." made into a 
riband and treated with sulphuric acid, indicates by the portion 
dissolved that also of the silver present. By submitting the resi- 
duum to quartation, the platinum becomes soluble in nitric acid. 
The loss after digestion in this menstruum expresses the weight 
of that metal, and the weight of the portion now remaining is that 
of pure gold. Gold containing palladium may be assayed in the 
same manner. Anneai ing. — This consists in putting the pure gold 
into a small, porous crucible, or cupel, and heating it to redness 
iu the muffle. "Wbighing must be done with the utmost accu- 
racy. The weight in grains Troy, doubled or quadrupled, as 
the case may be, gives the number of carats fine of the alloy 
examined, without calculation. 

According to the old French method of assaying gold, the fol- 
lowing quantities were taken : For the assay pound, 12 gr. ; fine 
silver, : gr. ; lead, 108 gr. These having been cupelled together, 
the perfect button is rolled into a leaf (1} x 5 inches), twisted on 
a quill, and submitted to parting witV 2^ oz. and IJ oz. of nitric 
acid. sp. gr., 1.16 (20** Baume.) The icmainder of the process is 
similar to that above described. 

The usual weight of silver taken for the assay pound, when the 
iineness is reckoned in lOOOths, is 20 gr., every real grain of 
which represents 50-lOOOths of fineness, and so on of smaller divi- 
sions. 

Enamelling on Gold or Copper. — The basis of all enamels is a 
highly transparent and fusible glass, called frit, flux, or paste, 
which readily receiires a color on the addition of the metallic 
oxides. Preparation. — Red lead, 16 parts ; calcined borax, 3p'vrts ; 
pounded flint glass, 12 parts ; flints, 4 parts. Fuse in a Hessian 
crucible for 12 hours^ then pour it out into water, and reduce it 
tc powder in a biscuit-ware mortar. The following directions will 
serve to show how the coloring preparations are made : Black 
enamels are made with peroxyde of manganese, or protoxyde of 
iron, to which more depth of color is given with a little cobalt. 
Yiolet enamel of a very fine hue is made from peroxvde of m%^i 





: :it 


1 


1 

- 1. 




■ , 


f J 




"i\ 


1 


\\ 




j ij 


\ 


I ■i 


' *JS 


' i;Si 


•-■■■ 


ii 



166 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, ftO., BEOEIPTB. 



gftnesd in Amall quantity, with saline or alkaline flaxes. Red 
enamel is tuade from protozyde of copper. BoU a solution of eoual 
parts of sugar and acetate of topper in four parts of water. The 
suffar takes possessioa of a portion of the cupreous oxide, and 
reduces it fo the protoxyde ; when it maj be precipitated in the 
form of a granular powder of a brilliant red. After about two 
hours of moderate boilimf, the liquid is set aside to settle, decanted 
offthe precipitate, which is washed and dried. By this pure oxidn 
any tint may be obtained from red to oranee by adding a greater 
or Smaller quantity of ptroxyde of iron. The oxide and purple of 
GassiuB are likewise employed to color red enamel. This compo- 
sition resists a strong fire rery well. Oreen enamel can be produced 
by a mixture of yellow and blue, but is generally obtained direct 
from the oxide of copper, or, better still, with the oxide of chrome, 
which last will resist a strong heat. Yellow. — Take one part of 
white oxide of antimony, with from one to three parts of white 
lead, one of alum, and one of sal-ammoniac. Each of these sub- 
f tances id to be pulverized, then all are to be exactly mixed, and 
exposed to a heat adequate to decompose the sal-ammoniac. This 
eperation is judeed to be finished when the yellow color is well 
brought out. Sltie. — This color is obtained from the oxide of 
cobalt, or some of its combinations, and it produces it with such 
intensity that only a very little can be used lest the shade should 

J)as3 into black. A white enamel may be prepared with a calcine 
brmed of 2 parts of tin and 1 of lead, calcined together : of this 
combined oxide, 1 part is melted with 2 parts of fiu- crystal and 
a very little manganese, all previously ground together. Wheu 
the fusion ^ complete, the vitreous matter is to he poured into 
clesur wate>, tand the frit is then dried and melted anew. Repeat 
the pouring into water three or four times, to .insure a perfect 
combination Screen the crucible from smoke and flame. The 
smallest portions of oxide of iron or copper admitted into this 
enamel wUl destroy its value. 

The artist prepares his enamel colors by pounding them in an 
agate mortar, with an agate pestle, and grinding them on an agate I 
slab, with oil of lavender rendered viscid by exposure to the sun, ' 
in a shallow vessel, loosely covered with gauze or glass. He 
should have alongside of him a stove, in which a moderate fire h 
kept up, for drying his work whenever the figures are finished. It 
is then passed through the muffle. 

8ilvhr-Platin*'>.— File the parts which are to receive the plate 
very smooth ; then apply over the surface the muriate of ziuc, 
which is madb by dissolving zinc in muriatic acid : now hold this 
part over a dish containing hot soft solder, and with a swab apply 
the solder to the pwt to which it will adhere, brush off all super- 
fluous solder, so as to leave the surface smooth ; you will now 
take No. 2 fair silver olate, of the right size to cover the prepared 
surface, and lay the plate upon it^ and rub down smooth with a 
cloth moistened with oil ; then, with a tinned soldering iron, pass 
slowly over all the surface of the plate, which melts the solder 
underneath it, causing the plate to adhere as firmly as the solder 
does to the iron ; then polish the surface, and finish with bucl^< 
sVm, 



ance, is dor 



lOEIPTB. 

le flazeB. £ed 
»olutioa of eoual 
of water. The 
eoua oxide, and 
cipitated in the 
kfter about two 
settle, decanted 
y this pure oxidn 
dding a greater 
ie and purple of 
b1. This compo* 
caa be produced 
obtained direct 
oxide of chrome, 
ake one part of 
e parts of white 
bch of these sub- 
actly mixed, and 
ammoniao. This 
3W color is well 
rom the oxide of 
ices it with such 
the shade should 
red with a ealcint 
together : of this 
fine crystal and 
together. Wheu 
oe poured into 
auew. Repeat 
insure a perfect 
and flame. The 
dmitted into this 

ding them in an 
them on an agate 
)3ure to the sun, 
ze or glass. He I 
moderate fire la I 
3 are finished. It | 

receive the plate 
muriate of ziuc, 
d ; now hold this 
ith a swab apply 
ish off all super- 
;h ; you will nov 
ver the prepared 
n smooth with a 
dering iron, pass 
melts the solder 
ily as the solder 
lish with buck' 



MACHmtSTS, ENOINEERS, kO., RECEIPTS. l6? 

Elkinoton's Patbnt Gn-DiNO— Pine gold. 5 oz. (troy) ; nitro* 
muriatic acid. 62 oz. (avoirdupois) ; dissolve Dv heat, ana continue 
the heat until red or yellow vapors cease to oe evolved ; decant 
the clear liquor into a suitable vessel ; add dittilUd water, 4gal8. ; 
pure bi-carbonate of potassa, 20 lbs. ; and boil for 2 hours. N3--— 
The nitro^muriatic acid is made vrith pure nitric acid (sp. gr., 
1.45) 21 oz. ; pure muriatic acid (sp. gr., 1.16), 17 oz. ; and dtetillea 
water, 14 oz. 

The articles, after being perfectly cleaned from scale or grease: 
and receiving a proper/ace, are to be suspended on wire?, dipped 
into the liquid boiling hot, and moved about therein, when, in 
from a few seconds to a minute, depending on the newness and 
strength of the liquid, the requisite coating of gold will be 
deposited on them. By a little practice the time to withdraw tiie 
Articles is readily known ; the duration of the immersion reanired 
to produce any given effect gradually inereases as the ii(;[uid 
weakens by use. When properly gilded, the articles are with- 
drawn from the solution of gold, washed in clean water and dried; 
tfter which they undergo the usual operation of coloring, Ac. 

A " dead gold" appearance is produced by the application to the 
articles of a weak solution of nitrate of mercury previously to the 
immersion in the gilding liquor, or the deadening may be given l^ 
applying a solution of the nitrate to the newly gildea surface^ and 
then expelling the mercurv by heat. 

Spot Gildinq, or gilding in spots, producing a veiyfine appear* 
ance, is done by putting a thin coat of oil on those parts of the 
metal where you do not wish the gilding to appear, the gold will 
then be deposited on those spots only where there is no oil, and 
the oil is easily removed when the job is finished. 

Watchmakbbs' OiL.—Insert coils of thin sheet lead into olive 
(h1 in a bottle, expose it to the sun for a few weeks, and pour off 
the clear. 

Solution- for Dippiko Stibl Articlm, pbbtiotts to Elkotro- 
PLATMifl.—Nitrate of silver, 1 part; nitrate of mercury. 1 part; 
nitric acid fsp. gr., 1.384), 4 parts ; water, 120 parts. For copper 
articleg. — Sulphuric acid, 64 parts ; water, 64 parts ; nitric acid, 
32 parts : muriatic acid, 1 part ; mix. The article, free from grease, 
is dipped in the pickle for a second or two. 

PoLiRHiKO Diamonds. — The plan in use at all the large diamond 
cutters is simply.a cast iron disc of good metal, with a vertical 
spindle run through its centre, balanced, and turned, and faced 
true in a lathe. The disc revolves at about 1000 revolutions per 
minute. ^ With a little diamond dust and oil the stone 19 set in a 
stnall brass cup filled with common soft solder ; it is then screwed 
up in the clamps and applied to the skive till the facet 19 formed. 



I RECEIPTS FOR MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, MILLOWNERS, 
BLACKSMITHS, LOCOMOTIVE BUILDERS, &p., Ac, AND 
METAL WORKERS OF EVERY KIND. 

J On S a WMiLLS.— How to gbt the most Lumber from .SA^tnoGS.— 
[Experience has abundantly proved to our satisfaction that this can 



li 



i 



168 IfACHlNISTSy'ENaiNEERB, ftO.^ RECEIPTS. 

be d6ne only by the use of the circular saw. Human ingenuity, 
thanks be to the Giver of all Good.has been so prolific in the inveii' 
tion and construction of this kind of machinery, that the principal 
difficulty with the intending purchaser seems to be an inability to 
decide whose machine is really the best. Every builder or inventor 
of a rotary sawmill appears to claim for his machine such a per- 
fect constellation of most desirable features, that a certain amount 
of hesitation in comins to a decision seems to be inevitable. 
Having tried the up and down saw and the circular saw also, we 
would again repeat our conviction that the last mentioned is the 
best for manuracturing lumber, and should any person act on 
this expression of opinion, let him in the first place be very careful 
to get if possible the best machine, bring it to the mill, and set it 
perfectly level and true. When you get it in operation,see that you, 
nandle it carefully. If you have been used to running the uf) and 
down saw only, you will soon find out that your former experience 
avails almost nothing in the management of the rotary machine ; 
but when you get the hang of running it, the compensation in the 
way of convenience, rapidity, and quantity of work, is immense. 
Some prefer to use the inserted tooth saws, and will use no other, 
Thejr seem to possess many advantages, and are entirely safe. A 
late invention of tpreading the upper part of the tooth towards the 
point during the process of manufacture, spreading it out so as to 
make the point ofthe tooth the thickest part of the circumference of 
tfatt s;..w, enables the sawyer to dispense in a great measure with 
the use of the swage. Those inserted tooth saws which do not 
possess this improvement must be carefully swaged and filed at 
least twice per day, and sometimes as often as six or seven times 
per day, depending upon the kind of lumber being cut. In filing or 
swaging the saw, be careful to form the point of the teeth abso- 
lutely square, and even across, the slightest deviation from perfect 
truth in this respect being apt to cause the saw to run, as it is 
termed, or vary from its proper course while passing through the 
log. Some prefer to form the point of the tooth a little hooking, 
just enough so as to be barely perceptible, and in swaging to use 
that part of the die belonging to the swage, which gives the tooth 
ofthe saw a slightly curved or rainbow form, something in this shape 
^ or scarcely so much curved. One sawyer of 20 years' experience 
in running machinery, informed us th'it he ntver did better or more 
rapid yrork with his mill than when he kept his saw exactly right 
on these two points just stated. If you can run a No. 7 gauge 
saw on your mill, the loss resulting from sawdust will be very 
slight, and as large saws are generally thickest at the centre, 
tapering oflF towards the circumference, this size or No. 6 will, as a 
general rule^ be found suflficiently strong for most purposes. Make 
sure at all times, especially during frosty weather, that the dogs 
have a secure hold of the log before the saw enters it. It is only a 
few days ago that a case came to my knowledge of a firm near 
Fredericton, N.B., having sustained a severe loss by a log (insuffici- 
ently secured, of course) canting ovec on the saw as it was passing 
through it. The eflFect was to break oflf the saw from the mandril, 
twist off the nut at the end near the saw, and break away the two 
iron pins used for securing the saw in the ooUar, causing a stop- 



n&ge of 
\Vhen yo 
fully, an 

r ration 
t up 
the atten 
assure yo 
do with t 
the way, 
this worl 
lovinj 
vaded tl 
expressio 
course wi 
what it is 
us all car 
sible, and 
unity." I 
«f saws, h 
in ascerta 



36 

38 

40 

42 

44 

46 

48 

50 

52 

64 

56 

58 

60 

62 

64 

66 

68 

70 

72 

74 

76 

Who Ma 

in this bus 

so numero 

leave off ir 

of Brantfoi 

circular se 

have sent 

gang-baw 1 

appear to b 

Ont., Mr.,C 



^i 



MACHINISI^S, liNGlNSEBS, ftC, R£OEIPTS« IBd 

ttee of the mill, and the consequent expense of repiur and delay. 
Vnen you get the mill in operation, see that you handle it care- 
fully, and maintain unceasing watchfulness over her while in 
r ration. Give her plenty qf power ; if you donH^ you may as well 
t up shop at once ; good attendance, and with a good machine, 
the attendants will not hare much time to play thems'elves, I can 
assure you. Keep all the parts well oiled— 'ihtit has a sreat deal to 
do with the smooth and successful running of the machine ; and, by 
the way, I would remark that sawmills are not the only things in 
this world that run all the better for being oiled. If that kind, 
loying, flrentle, and affectionate spirit of which oil is the symbol, per- 
vaded the hearts and minds of our race, and found universal 
expression in erery thought, word, and deed during ourdailyinter- 
course with each other, it would be a very different world from 
what it is — better for ourselves, and better for our neighbors. Let 
us all carry on this branch of the oil busineta as extensively as pos- 
sible, and we shall soon see a brotherhood " dwelling together in 
unity." In order to facilitate calculations regarding th« velocity 
ef saws, herewith is appended a reliable tabl* to serve as a guide 
in ascertaining the proper speed for running : — 

Tablb or Spbbd vor Ciboular Saws. 

36 inches in diameter, 1000 revolutions per minute. 



40 


(( 


42 


« 


44 


(C 


46 


<i 


48 


« 


60 


(1 


62 


« 


64 


« 


66 


(( 


68 


« 


60 


<i 


62 


It 


64 


(1 


66 


it 


68 


tt 


70 


u 


72 


u 


74 


tt 


76 


tt 



It 


900 


(1 


i( 


u 


870 


« 


(i 


tt 


840 


« 


(1 


tt • 


800 


« 


11 


tt 


760 


(1 


tt 


tt 


725 


(t 


tt 


tt 


700 


« 


tt 


l( 


675 


« 


tt 


« 


660 


tt 


tt 


(1 


625 


tt 


tt 


(1 


600 


tt 


tt 


« 


575 


tt 


tt 


l( 


560 


It 


tt 


l( 


645 


It 


tt 


11 


530 


It 


tt 


ic 


515 


tt 


tt 


« 


600 


ti 


{t 


tt 


485 


i( 


tt 


tt 


475 


(( 


tt 



Who Makb the Best Saw-mills and Saws. — The parties engaged 
iu this business who may be called first class men m their line are 
80 numerous, that it is hard to tell where to begin or where to 
leave off in making honorable mention. 0. H. Waterous k Co., 
of Brantford, Ont., have the reputation of turning out fii'st class 
circular saw mills, and portable engines to drive them. They 
have sent many of their mills down to New Brunswick, where the 
gang-bsw has been doing most of the business hitherto, and they 
appear to be giving satisfaction. The Joseph Hall Mfg. Co., Oshawa, 
Ont., Mr. Glen, president, also rank very high. The same may be 



I 



If 



. 4 

1; 



■irM 



n 



IW 



MACHINISTS, BNOINEXRS, kO,, EE0EIPT8. 



■aid of W P Bartley k Co., of Montreal ; James Harris, of th« 

New Bruiuiwick Foundry. St. John, N.fi. Messrs. McFarlane ft 

Anderson* of Bt. Mary's and Fredehcton, N B, with their two 

estahlishments— the one at the latter place being quite extensive, 

and lately rebuilt at great cost since toe fire which destroyed it in 

the BUQimer of 1871-~are now fully prepared to execute any orders 

for Baw-n)ills, steam engines, ftc, at reasonable rates. For the 

benefit of those residinsr in the United States, we may mention 

. that Steams, Clark, ft Co., of Erie, Pa., turn out the very best of 

work. Having made a personal examination of theii facilities and 

appliances, we say that they rank second to none, and, in 

proof of this^ woi)la state that we saw a letter in the " Scientific 

American" a few days a^o, from a party who was running one of 

their mills in Wisconsin, if we mistake not, making the statement 

that he had cut upwards of 60,000 feet in one dav with one of their 

circular saw-mills. That was big business, but the work was done, 

and the figures produced to prove it from a disinterested source. 

There are also one or two firms in Bangor, Me , who turn out good 

machinery for saw«mili8 ; but it is aunost invidious to mention 

isolated firms where there is such an aggregation' of excellent 

houses in this Ousiness all over tbe United States and Canada. 

In tbe Ime of saw manufacturers we would enumerate Morland 

ft Watson, and James Robertson, ot Montreal, Alex. Richardson ft 

Co., ot St John, N B., and J. F Lawton, also of St. John, as 

bearing tbe reputation of turning out good work. In the United 

States we have honorable and able firms bearing the names of 

Welch ft Gnffiths of Boston, tbe Providence Saw Co., Providence, 

R.i.j who make inserted tooth Sftws only : R. Hoe ft Co., of New 

York ; the American Saw Co , New York ; Diaston of Philadelphia ; 

Porter Saw Co., Bristol, Conn.; Hubbard of Pittsburg, Pa. ; Atkins 

ot Indianapolis. Ind. : Messrs. Sinker ft Co., of tbe same place; 

Melius ol Detroit, Mien jBranch, Crookes, ft Co., of St. Louis, Mo., 

and one oi two good firms in Cleveland, Ohio. 

Shinglb Machwbb. — There are numerous good machines of this 
class, very highly recommended by the different manufacturers as 
a matter ot course, but the interested representations as to their 
capability of performing such incredible prodigies of work in a 
day, are most generally to be tak^n at a "liberal discount," as the 
dry goods merchant most eloquently expresseth it. Having had 
rather unusual opportunities of witnessing the perforuiance of 
various kinds of shingle machines, 1 will specify a few, premising, 
in the first place, that 1 am neither Interested in the sale of 
Bhmgle or any otner machines, nor in the receipt of " a valuable 
consideration" from the manufacturers for recommending them. 
James Hams of St John, N.B., has built a large number of the 
Close shingle machines (vertical saw) during the year 1871. 
I hear them highl;^ spoken of, and have seen one, but not in ope- 
ration, i should judge it was a very good machine, price $176, 
with a Bangor edger or trimmer^ $25 extra. The Muzzey Iron 
Works Company, Bangor, Me., build a very good shingle machine 
(vertical Jjaw) ; I have seen many in operation ; they will turn out a 
ffood 4e«l of work, and do it well. Trevor and Co., of Lockport. 
N.Y., torn put very gpod shingle and heading machinep (vertical 



T0. 

jrrii, of tht 
cFarlane & 
h their two 
te extensiTe, 
Btroyed it in 
;e any orders 
eg. For the 
aay mention 
very best of 
facilitieB and 
one, and, in 
le " Scientific 
nning one of 
he statement 
3 one of their 
rk was done, 
isted source, 
urn out good 
a to mention 
of excellent 
and Canada, 
rate Norland 
R,ichardBon k 
St. John, as 
[n the United 
the names of 
, Providence, 

Co., of New 
.'hiladelphia ; 
;, Pa. ; Atkins 

same place ; 

It. Louis, Mo., 



iiAOHiNtBTFi, Ef^iiHnnbi; Kd, HcAkn. lit 



i, premising, 

the sale of 

" a valuable 

pnding them. 

jmber of the 

year 1871. 

\t not in ope- 

price $175, 

luzzey Iron 

f" jle machine 
1 turn out a 
])f Lockport. 
lep (vertical 




BAW) As a proof of their potiulairity, I may. ^tatg ^^'i Iff. T. 
Thompson^ of Black Rock, N.Xm has foof oi;^five of tbe^e shingle 
mdchines m operation, and prefers them to all ,otth|ei:S' I can 
also bear witness that M. Badger and Co., of BocDjef^ie|t, N.Y., 
build excellent sl^iagle apd headins inftc|iine8 (hori^o^tftl saw), 
and are really dcitiorying of approbauon and patronage, not only 
on account of turi;iih^ OMtj good machinery, but fron^ the circum- 
siaj^ce that t^e pi;opneto];fi are two young )adie^ (who haye ii^he- 
rited the business of their father, now many years (^ceased) who 
attend, persona^y.to the management of tb9 financial part of the 
business, while, the super^^t^ndent, Mr. Doi^gh^y, if possessed of 
eveiT qualification to ensure ffoo4 work in.thi mechanical depart- 
ment. } would also mention ja^es K. Auftf i^ ' and Oo,. .o(, Qs wego, 
N.T., as a firm who b^ve expended ft. great deal, of mon^jrand 
much ingenuity in the .inVeniipn and manufacture of snii^gle 
machinesL |uid nayei brought ^hem to a poin)i.0f peripp||on whTc^ 
leaves little more to \» desired. Although tnei machuM is quite 
comp^cated^ it icap be speeded up to cui yerr riapigly. On^ 
gentleman in Oswego informed me that he b(id cut ai high 

as 33,000 sir ■ ^ 

day's work. 

carriestwQt , „ ». ,,n 

alternately. I^his machine also' requires a smaB ci^^if'ui, operator ; 
any negligence or his pf^ft will undoubtedly b^ rftward^a 'vi^ i^ 
shower of dangerous projectile's, flying "fast «nd farlpifs/'. POt Sii 
all careful who or where they stnKe, The price of this machine 
is $600. I have seen only oiie shingle machine that could compete 
with Austin's. This was in Chicago previous to the great fire, and 
it could cut about 8000 shingf esjjer hour. I was informed that it was 
made in Wisconsin, and cost $1400. Many other good machines 
are made by other makei:? besides those mentioned above, but 
space will not admit of further mention. Any enquiries addressed 
to either of the aforeskid manufhctarers will be ims^ered by illus- 
trated circulars containing full information. In the manufaetnrs 
of shingles,' as well as in anything else, it is the wisest policy to nsd 
the best materials. Get good rift; fre<S frotd knots, sftnd, bark, ftc, 
and you will ineyitably get good merchantable stuff, with less 
waste and more pleasure every way, both with the machinery in 
the first place, and the satisfactory state of ^our exchequer in the 
last. It is all the better if ^ou can lay in a good stock one 
year, fihea,d, as it cuts much easiei| when 'properly sefisoned, to say 
nothing of the saving in wei^rht during transportation. In edging 
shingrte^,' m^ny prtpfer the saw tb th6 revQlving knives, ai9 it enables 
the operator in m^nv c'dses to g^t a. shingle of extra quality by 
tHmmin^ a poor shiii^le down, and selecting'the best part. This 
can be don6 by a smart hand with marvellous ra;pidity, but still, to 
use a modern phrase, many persons can't see 11^ and so they use 
the knives, giving wuat they cbhceive' to be good rea,sons n>r so' 
doing. 

Vblocity ofF TtH^tiiS, PtJLMTS, DtiUMS, &c,--Wh6ij trh6<eW, ««' 
applied to ^inmnnicatie inotion from one pairt of a nolaoi^uie to 
another, their teeth act alternately on each oth^r ; cons^ueVitly, 
if one wheel contains 60 teeth, and another 20 teeth, tb4 onecon- 



iTffll 


rm 


;1|| 


H 


If 


11 


is e 


R^fi 


■'A 

mm 


li 



.-^ 



172 klOHIMUTS, feNdlNllRS, AC, RIO1IPT0. 

taininff Mtcith will make 3 rerolutiotM while the other makes but 
1 ; and if drumi or pallejs are taken in place of wheels, the effect 
will be the lame ; because their circumferences, describing eG|ual 
spaces, render their revolutions unequal; from this the rule is 
- oerived, namelj : — 

Multiply the velodtf oJ the driver by the number of teeth it 
contains, and divide by the velocity of the driven. The quotient 
-iviU be the number of teeth it ought to contain : or, multiplv the 
velocitv of the driver by its diameter, and divide by the velocity 
ot the ariven. 

ExampU 4. If a wheel that contains 75 teeth makes 16 revolu* 
tions per minute, required the number of teeth in another, to work 
into and make 24 revolutions in the same time. According to 
rule, vou multiply 16 by 75, and divide the product, which is 
1200, oy 24, and you have the answer. 50 teeth. 

Example 6. Suppose a drum, 30 mcnes in diameter, to make 20 
revolutions in a minute, required the diameter of another to make 
60 revolutions per minute. According to rule, you multiply 20 
bv 30, and diviae the product, which is 600, by 60, and you have 
the answer, 10 inches. 

Example 6. A wheel 64 inches in diameter, and making 42 revo- 
lutions per minute, is to give motion to a shaft at the rate of 77 
revolutions in the same time ; find the diameter of a wheel suitable 
for that purpose. According to rule, multiply 42 by 64, and divide 
the product, which is 2688, by 77, and you will have for the 
answer 36 inches nearly. 

77)2688(341} 
231 

378 
308 70 

Example 7. Suppose a pulley 32 inches diameter to make 26 
revolutions ; ^d the diameter of another to make 12 revolutions in 
the same time. 

According to rule, 26 X 32 -r- 12 = 69^ — 

26 and 12) 832. This will be seen to be 69^ 

32 

- 69xV=J 

832 

Example 8. Find the number of revolutions per minute made by 
a wheel or pulley 20 inches in diameter, when ariven by another 48 
mches in diameter, and making 45 revolutions in the same time. 
According to rule, 48 X 45 -r 20 = 108. That is, 48 multiplied 
by 45 = 2160, divided by 20, gives the answer, 108 revolutions. 

A leather belt should have a velocity of about 1300 feet per 
minute, and not more than 1800 feet, or it will not last long. K 
the lightning pulley is used too strong, it increases friction in the 
gudgeons of tne shaft, and prematurely destroys the belt. 

To Inorbasb thb Power and Durability of Rdbber BsitTiNa.<>^ 
A4>ply the following composition with a painter's brush, and let it 
dry :— Red lead, black lead, French yellow, and litharge, equal 



maVcs but 
I tte effect 
ibing equal 
the ruic is 

of teeth it 
he qaotient 
luUiply th« 
the velocity 

B 16 revolu* 
aer, to work 
ccordinff to 
t, which ia 

to make 20 
her to make 

multiply 20 
id you have 

lug 42 revo- 
ae rate of 77 
heel suitable 
I, and divide 
^ave for the 



to make 26 
tvolutions in 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEERA, AC , RECEIPTS. 1?3 

t^arti ; mix with boiled linseed oil and japan sufficient to make it 
dry quick. This will produce a highlr-polisbed surface, Should 
the belt slip, moisten iigbtly on the side next the puHey with hH« 
seed oil, ana repeat the application if necessary. 
BiLTiNO Friotion.— The friction by belting on pulleys is 47 for 

f greased leather, when run on wood drums or pulleys ; BO for dry 
eather on wooa ; 38 for oiled leather on cast-iron puUeyb ; and 28 
for dry leather on cast-iron pulleys. 

BiLGiAN Wbldino Powdbr.- Irou filings, 1000 parts ; borax, 600 
parts ; balsam of copaiba, or other resinous oil, 60 parts ; sal- 
ammoniac, 76 parts. Mix all well together, heat, ana pulverize 
completely. The surfaces to be welded are powdered with the 
composition, and then brought to a cherry red beat, at which the 
powder melts, when the portions to be united are taken from the 
nre and joined. If the pieces to be welded are too large to be both 
introduced into the forge, one can be first heated with the weld- 
ing powder to a cherry rod heat, and the other afterwards to a 
white heat, after which thQ welding may be effected. 

Composition Uskd m Wbldino Cast Stbbl.— Borax, 10 parts; 
sal-ammoniac, 1 part ; grind or pound them roughly together ; then 
fuse them in a metal pot over a clear fire, taking care to continue 
tbe heat until all spume has disappeared from the surface. When 
the liquid appears clear, the composition is ready to be poured 
out to cool and concrete: afterwards being ground to a fine pow- 
der, it is ready for use. To use this composition, the steel to be 
welded is raised to a heat which may be expressed by " bright yel- 
low ;' it IS then dipped among the welding powder, and ajgam 
placed in tbe tire until it attains the same degree of heat as before : 
It is then ready to be placed under tbe hammer. 

Tbhpbrino Stbbl Springs.— Tho steel used should be that called 
" spring" for large work ; for small work, " double shear." After 
hardening in tbe usual way, in water, or, as some prefer, in oil, 
dry the spring over the fire to get rid of its moisture, then smear 
it over with tallow or oil, hold it over the flame of the smith's 
forge, passing it to and fro, so that the whole of it will be equally 
heated, holding it there until the oil or tallow takes fire. Take the 
article out of the fire and let it burn a short time, then blow it out. 
This process may be repeated two or three times if the operator 
fancies that any portion of the spring has not been reduced to 
tbe proper temperature, or rather, raised to it. 

Tbmperino Saws.— a late improvement consists in tempering 
and straightening the saws at one operation. This is done by heat- 
ing the saws to the proper degree, and then pressing them with a 
sudden and powerful stroke between two surfaces of cold iron. A 
drop press is employed for the purpose. The mechanism is quite 
simple and inexpensive. Its use effects an important economy in 
tbe manufacture of nearly all kinds of saws, and also improves 
their quality 

Tbmpbring Liquid.— Water, 3 ^als. ; soda, 2 oz. ; saltpetre, 2 
oz. ; prussic acid, 1 oz., or oil of vitriol, 2 oz. 

Tbmpbbino Spiral Sprinos.— Place a piece of round iron inside 
the spring, large enough to fill it ; then make the spring and iron 
red hot, and, when hot place them quickly into cold water, and 



174 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS^ AC, ftEOElf**^. 

# 

Stir them aboiit till col 3^ afterw.*'-cdg rub them Trith oil or grease j 
and more tbfm about in a fl«me till the grease( takes fire ; .be 
spring will then; be reduced to Its pr jper temper. 

To SoFTBN MallbaSlH Ifltoi^J— wh^ your furnace is charged 
with fuel and met&l, get the fire up to a dull red heat, then pour 
fluoric acid all over^he coke; usef pt; to 1 pt. or even 1 qt., add- 
Irtga bandfhl of fluorspar; it will make the metal much softer. 

Ohillbd Iron. — At Listers Works, Darlington, England, some 
articles required turning in the lathe, and east steel could not be 
made hard enough to cut them. On* t)an proposed cast metal 
tools. He was laughed at, of course, but his plan bad to be tried. 
Well, cast metal tools were tried, with points chilled; and they cut 
when cast steel tools were of no use. The article was turned up 
with metal tooI$^. 

DRiLtiko Holds in Oabt laON.— By m«»an3 of Carbolic acid a hole 
i of an in6h in diaimeter hfts been drilled thron<;h ^ inch thickness 
of cast iron, with a comiiton carpenter's brace j judge, then, what 
can be done by using the acid and pressure drill. 

To k-iSYbRa BiTRKT Sts»L AND iMi>RttVB Pootf STBflSL.-Borax, 3 oz. ; 

sal-ammoniac, 8 02. ; prus^iate of potash; 3 oz. ; blue clay, 2 oz. ; 

resin, ^ lb.; wai r, 1 gill; alcohol, 1 g»ll. Put all on the fire, 

< and siihmer till it dries to a powder. The steel is to be heated, 

dipped ilito this powder, and afterwards hammered. 

Composition to TottOHBN Stbbl.— Resiii, 2 lbs. ; tallow, 2 lbs. ; 
bla«k pitch, 1 lb. : melt together, and dip in the steel when hot. 

Btn.QLAK ANt) Dmcl-Proop Diamond OmLL. — Take I gal. urine, 
and add to it I ot. borax atid 1 oz. salt. 

To RB-cuT Old Files.— Remove the grease and' dhi; from your 
files by washing them in warm potash water, then wash them in 
warm water, aud Jry with artificial Leat ; next, place 1 pt. warm 
water in a wooden vessel, and put in your files, add 2 oz, of blue 
vitriol, finely pulverized; 2 oz. of borax, well mixed, taking care to 
turn the files over, so that each one mm come in contaet with the 
mixture. Now add 7 oz. sulphuric acid and i 03. cider vie 'ar to 
the above mixture. Rem; ve the files after a short time, dry, sponge 
them with olive oil, wrap them up in porous papery and put aside 
for use. Ooarse files require to be immersed longer than fine. 

SuBP.TiiJjTB FOR BoRAx. — Ooppcas, 2 OZ. ; saltpetre, 1 oz. : com- 
mon salt, 6 o*. ; black oxide of manganese, 1 oz. : prussiate of 
potash, 1 oz. ; all pulverised and mixed with 3 lbs. of nice welding 
sand) and use the same as you would sand. High-tempered ste^ 
can be welded with this at a lower heat than is required for borax. 

Tempering LiQuro for Mill picks. — Rai'^. water, 3 gals.-; spirits 
of nitre, 3 oz,; hartshorn, 3 oz. ; white vitriol, 3 oz. ; alum, 3 oz.; 
sal-ammoniac, 3 oz. ; salt, 6 oz. ; with 2 handfuls of the parings 
of horse's hoofsl The steel to bo heated to a cherry red. A large 
jug of this preparation should be kept corked tight, to keep its 
strength from being lost by evaporation. 

To SoFTBN Iron or Stbel.— Either of the following methods 
will make iron or steel very soft: — 1. Anoint it all over with 
tallow, temper it in a gentle charcoal fire, and let it cool of itself. 
2. Take a I'tft^e clay^ cover your iron with it, temper in a charcoal 
fire. 3. When the iron or steel is red hot, strew hellebore on it, 



HAOHINISTS, ENQINXERS) AC, BSGEIFTB. 1.75 

4. Qae&ch the iron or steet in the juice f vrat«r of eomtnon 
beans. 

To FiLB A BQUABK HOLB. — To file ft bole square, it ib necessary 
to 'averse the work very often ; a square file should first pe usedf, 
tLnd the holes finished with either a diamond-shaped file, or a half 
round. This leaves the comers square, as they properly should be. 

T6 Temper Shall SprinOs. — Jn large quantittet. — First, harden 
them in the usual manner of hardening steel ; then place aa many 
as convenient in a vessel contamin^ Oil. Heat the oil containing 
the sr rings nntil it takes fire trom the top, then set off the vessel 
and let it cool. The springs will then be found to possess the 
required temper. 

TKVPKRmG.— The article, after being completed, is-bardened by 
being heated gradually to a bright red, and then plunged into 
cold water: it is then tempered by being warui >d gradually and 
equably, either over a fire, or on a piece m heated metal, till of the 
color corresponding to the purpose for which it k required, as per 
table below, when it is again plunged into water. 

Corresponding temperatui?. 

A very pale straw 430 Lancets) 

Straw 450 Razors j 

Parker straw 470 Penknives ) All kinds of wood toois, 

Yellow 490 Scisso^rs j Screw taps. 

Brown yellow 500 ) Hatchets, Qhipping ChlBeUi, 

Slightly tinged pnrple 620 V Saws. 

Purple 630 j All kinds of percussive tools. 

Park purple 650 Iq-,-!„_4, 

Blue..:....:. 670 JSpnngs. 

Dark blue 600 Soft for saws. 

GanoiBLEiS. — The best crucibles aie made from pure fire-clay, 
mixed with finely-ground pement of old crucibles, and a portion of 
black-lead or graphite ; some pounded coke maybe mixed with 
the plumbago. The clay should be prepared m a similar way as 
for making pottery-ware ; the vessels, after being formed, must be 
slowly dried, and tben properly baked in the kUn. 

JBlack-r^ead crucibles are made of 2 parts graphite, and ' of fire- 
clay, mixed with water into a paste, pressed in moulds, and well 
dried, but not baked hard in the kiln. This compound forms 
excellent small or portable fqmaees. 

TiiMPBRiNo Razors, Cutlrrt, Saws, &c— Razors and penknives 
are too frequently hardened withoiit the removal of the scale aris- 
ing from the forging : thta practice, which ta nev^r done with the 
beat works, cannot be too much deprecated. The blades are heated in 
a coke or charcoal fire, and dipped in the water obliquely In 
tempering razors, they are laid on their backs upon a clean fire, 
about half-a-dozen together, and they are removed one at a time, 
when the edges, whiQh are as yet thick, come down to a pale-straw 
color. Should the backs accidentally get heated bey on d the straw- 
color, the blades are cooled in water but not otherwise. Pen- 
blades are tempered a dozen or two at a time, on a plate of iron or 
copper, about 12 inches long, 3 or 4 inches wide, and about ^ of an 
}nch thick. The blades ^re arranged close together on their baeln 



176 MACHINISTS, ENGINfiERB, &C„ EEOEIPTS. -^ 

and lean at an angle against each other. As tliey come down to 
the temper, they are picked out with small pliers and thrown inio 
water irnecedsary ; other blades are then thrust forward from the 
cooler parts of tne plate to take their place. Axes, adzes, cold 
chisels, and other edge tools, in which the total bulk is considerable 
compared with the part to be hardened, are only partially dipped : 
they are afterwards let down by the heat of the remainder or the 
tool ; and, when the color indicative of the temper is attained, they 
are entirely quenched. With the view of removing the loose scales, 
or the oxydation acquired in the fire, some workmen rub the objects 
hastily in dry salt before plunging them in the water, in order to 
give them a cleaner and brighter face) 

Oil, or resinous mixtures of oil, tallow, wax, and resin, are used 
for many thin and elastic articles, such as needles, fish-hooks, steel 
pens and springs, which require a milder degree of hardness than 
18 given hy water. Gun lock-springs are sometimes fried in oil 
for a considerable time over a fire, in an iron tray ; the thick parts 
are then sure to be sufficiently reduced, and the tnin parts do aot 
become the more softened from the continuance of the blazing 
heat. 

. Saws and springs are generally hardened in various composi- 
tions of oil, suet, wax, &c. Tbef saws are heated in long furnaces, 
and then immersed borizontallv and edgeways into a long trough 
containing the composition. Part of the composition is wiped off 
the saws with a piece of leather, when they are removed from the 
trough, and heated one by one, until the grease inflames. This is 
called " blazina o^." The composition used by a large saw manu- 
facturer is 2 lbs. suet, and \ lb. of bees'-wax, to every gallon of 
whale oil : these are boiled together, and will serve for thin works 
and most kinds of steel. The addition of black resin, about 1 lb. 
to each gallon, makes it serve for thicker pieces, and for those it 
refused to harden before ; but resin should be added with judg- 
ment, or the works will become too hard and brittle. 

To Reddcr Oxide op Zinc. — The oxid§ may be put in quanti- 
ties of 500 or 600 lbs. weight into a large pot over the fire ; pour a 
sufficient quantity of muriatic acid over the top, to act as a flux, 
and the action of the fire will melt the dross, when the pure metal 
will be found at the bottom of the pot. 

To Temper Taps or Reamers without springing, select your steel 
for the job, and forge the tap^with a little more than the usual 
allowance, being careful not to heat too hot nor hammer too cold ; 
alter the tap or reamer is forged, heat it and hold it on one end on 
the anvil. If a large one, hit it with the sledge : if a small one, the 
hammer will do. This will cause the tap to bena slightly. Do not 
straighten it with the hammer, but on finisi ng and hardening the 
tap. it will become straight of its own accord. 

To Harden and Tsk ^er Oast Steel. — For saws and springs in 
general the following is an excellent liquid : Spermaceti ofl, 20 
gals.*; beef suet rentfercrf, 20 lbs. ; neat's-foot oil, 1 gal. ; pitch, 1 
lb. : black resin, 3 lbs. The last two articles must be previously 
melted together, and th<a added to th« other ingredients, when 
file whole must be h^ted in a proper, fton vessel, with a close 
coyep fitted tojt, until all ntoisture h rhiporated, and the compo<< 



MACHINISTS, INOINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. ^77 

sitiou will take fire on a flaming body being presented to its Sun 
ikce. 

VuLOANiTB EusRT Whbbls.— Uso a compound of India rubber, 
and Wfillington mills emery, as little of the formed as will suffice 
to hold the particles of emery together. The materials most be 
thoroughly incorporated together, then rolled into sheets, cut intir 
wheels of the desired size and pattern^ pressed into iron moulda 
and vulcanized or cured by bem^ subjected to a high degree m 
.steam heat for several hours^akmff it almost as hard as cast iron. 

To Brazb a Band Saw. — Whitney's method. — The tools required 
are a small portable forge, brazmg clamps, &c, and a straight edge, 
3 or 4 feet long, also some brass wire and powdered borax. Take 
the saw and cut it to the prqper length, scarf the ends from one 
half to three-fourths of an inch, then put the saw in the clamps. 
I would say that I use a very small and simple clamp in the shape 
of a double vise. Keep the back of the saw out of the jaws of 
the vise, or clamps, and apply the straight edge to the back, as it 
is very necessary to braze it straight ; make the fire in as small a 
compass as possible ; place the clamps directly over the centre of 
thenre.and then put on three pieces of brass wire, bent in the 
form or the letter U , so that they will pinch the laps together *, put 
on as much boreuc as will lie on the saw, cover tne whole with a 
piece of charcoal ; melt the brass so that it will flow over the saw 
before taking it off the fire, and cool very slow so as not to make 
the braze brittle. File off what remains on the saw, and it is ready 
for use. 

To RBMOVB RnsT.-r-If you immerse the articles in kerosene oil and 
let them remain for some time, the rust will become so much loos- 
ened as to come off very easy. 

To BOLDBR FBRBULBB FOR Tooii Handlbs. — Take vour ferrule, lap 
iY)Und the jointing a small piece of brass wire, then jastwet the 
ferrule, scatter on the joining around borax, put it on the end of a 
wire, and hold it in the fire till the brass fUses. It will fill up the 
joining, and form a perfect solder. It may afterwards be turned in 
the lathe. 

Hardbnino Wood for Pullbys.— After a wooden pulley is turned 
and rubbed smooth, boil it for about eight minutes in olive oil ; then 
allow it to dry, and it will become almost as hard as copper. 

To Purify Gas.— The purifier is to be filled with muk of lime, 
made by mixing 1 part of slaked lime with 25 parts of water. A 
Tery great improvement in the purification of gas has been effected 
by Mr. Statter, of England, by the employment of hydrated clay 
along vnth the lime employed for this purpose. Hydrated clay 
unites with the ammonia of 'the gas as with a base, and, at the 
same time, with its sulphuret of carbon as an acid, and thus removes 
both of these noxious impurities from the gas exposed to its influence. 
It assists also, in conj auction with the lime, in removing tarry 
vapor and other impurities from the gas. The illuminating power 
of the gas is positively increased by the clay purification from 22 
to B3§ per cent. 

To JOINT LB AD Platbs. — The joints of lead plates for some pur- 
poses are made as follows : The edges are brought together, ham- 
mered down into a sort of channel cut out of wood, and secured 

¥ 



l';[8 ILfOHINISIfl, El^QIJN|:fi?«S, icO„ HJSQSIPTB 

with ,ft few tacka. T)ie IxoUow \b then scraped clean yn>th a aciftpv. 
rnbbed'bydr with candle grease, and a stream or not lead is poured 
into it, the surface i^ij^g afterwards a^Q^Uied ^i^h a r^ hot 
iflinnBei^d irom. ' 

' T6 jomt Li^ P;pu.— l^lden^ont ^he ^d nf one pipe ^vf ith a taper 
wdd^ Adrift aiid SQjflu^ it cle^ injsf^de ; Sf;rape ^jie end of the otner 
pij^e bntiidea^^tle.&p^rea, andins(^i;titi^t^^ : then .solder 

it ^ith ^niin<>f ' ]efid ^ol^er as before depq^ped ; pr, if it requirea 
to be'strdng, tub ' a little tallow orer, and cover the joint with a 
bal): of malted lead, holding a cloth (2 ot 3 plies of greased bed- 
tick) oh. tii9 ^dei^.si^e ; and smoothing over with it and the plum- 
ber's iron. 

TiNNiHO Iii.:p|Ri9B Qf^iAo Pipss.— This invention consists in 
appljuig a^Hxof grease or muriate of; zinc or any other flux that wiU 
jpirotect the ii^ad frqin bzidatiqn, and insnre a pei<fect coating of tin, 
whbh |h^ till is poured thrqiign the pipe or the pipe dipped into 
the bath' pf ,tin.i after ,t|ie I^ad pipe basl)een made, place the same 
in^irlbHibalprheiEtrly vertical pqsitipn, and pass down throngh 
the da;h^e a strong cord, ^9 yhien ayreight is attached to draw the 
cbrd wV^j^ inQ.pipe ; a,^d at l near the qtb^r end of the cord a 
Bppiigie, Orjiece of ot^er,po]:ous or elastic materiali is attached, of 
& Bis$9 ^<^ i(l' ihe pipej and gt a^ de^ir^d length, Eiay 6 inches 
more or 'Ic^s. , The spcoige or porous wad h^ing saturated with the 
flui, is d^aW ^c^i^^n the pipe, and b; its lensth ensures th6 
^^oVeriiik bf me entire ^ide svujfape of the inside ^ the pipes with 
the ma,M niat'the metted tin, subsequently applied, will adherto 
to all parts '^\tb uniformity fm4 fi|[^]pf^^e98!. 

To SoFt^sr Qmt ]($o»|'9» pCrajgNa.— St^^p it in Vpart of aqua- 
fortis to 4 of wat^r, and let it remain in ^4 hpni;s. 
) To Bmas Olp up Gannon-— 'j1^ ciftnnon and massive castings 
knay bid cht in two by a co^^uous stir^am of hot molten iron, 
"Whicjh'yei^i^s awdy Ihe i^o^ &3 a atrer'n of hot water would eat 
ihib a'ma^^ 9f ^^' 0^ th9 g<iQ may ^e rolled on a frame to the 
%:iouth bf'a fdmaqe, and the i^^uzzl^ ,end shoved in as far as possible 
anilbng' other li'on, the opening hired up and luted around the 
eun, the end of yrhic^ is melt^ o^ 4-t the next charge 
ihbye it in iino^her lehg;th, and s^ on ^n^ tne breech is disposed 
iof. ' ■' '•' ■■'■■■•■ 

Large masses of cast iron may be broken up by drilling a hole 
in the most sol^a part, filling it with water, fitting a steeling 
very acciirately m^o t,he hole, and letting the drop of a pile driver 
desceiid on the plug. - 

Eb^ifOMio LuBBicATo;B.—Jndia rubber, 4 lbs., dissolved in snuits. 
turpentine ; commbn ^qA^, 1Q lbs. ; glue, |1 lb. ; water, 10 gai. ; oil 
lO^al. Dissolve ^he so^^a and glue m the water by heat then add 
the Oil, and iMtly l;he dissolved rubber, mix well by stimng. 

To tifs^^N FniCTiON mr |i(achiniibt.-- Qrind together black lead 
with 4 times its weight of lard or tallow. Camphor is Sometimes 
added (7 lbs. to t^e hundredweight). 

' Best Stbp for TimmNB WHi!)BL8.--Swamp or rock maple is c. 
better s^p tlian either ligi^um vitee or elm for turbine wheels. 

W.ifSA AnnIbaI'IN'o.— Hee £ the steel to a red heat, and let it lie a 
fe^ Juihti^Si until i^^a^ly b^fick hot ■, then thro^y- it into soap-suds ; 



i 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



179 



eteel in this way may be annealed softer than hy putting it into 
^he ashes of the forge. 

TmPiRiNO Liquid. — ^To 7 quarts soft water, put in corrosive 
sublimate, 1| oz. ; common salt, 2 handfuls ; when dissolved, it is 
ready for use. The first gives toughness to the steel, while the 
latter gives the hardness. Be careful with this preparation, as it 
is a dangerous poison. 

Anothkr.— Salt, 1 tea-cup: saltpetre, 1 oz.; alum, pulverized, 
2 teaspoons ; soft water, 2 gallons ; never heat over a cherry red, 
nor draw any temper. 

Anothab. — Saltpetre, sal-ammoniac, and alum, of each 4 oz. ; 
salt, 3 lbs. ; water, 6 gallons ; and draw no temper. 

Anothsb. — Saltpetre and alum, each, 2 oz. ; sal-ammoniac, i oz. ; 
saltj li lb. ; soft water, 2 gallons. .Heat to a cherry red, and plunge 
iu, arawing no temper. 

Anothbb. — Water, 2 gal. ; saltpetre. ^ oz. ; pulverized borax, ^ 
oz. ; sal-ammoniac, i oz. ; white vitriol, 1 oz. ; salt 1| pt. Do not 
hammer too cold, nor heat too hisrh. If you follow tiie directions 
previously given for tempering mnl picks, you will generally come 
out all right. 

Restobino Bubnt Stml.— It is not generally known that burnt 
steel may be almost instantaneously restored by plunging it while 
hot in cold water, and hammering it with light strokes on the anvil, 
turning it so as to hammer all .over it, again dipping in the cold 
water, and repeating the hammering ptocess as before. Try it ; if 
you don't succeed the first time, you will soon do so. We saw liiis 
(lone by Mr. T. S. Smith, while in Cincinnati, Ohio, and can vouch 
for the truth of this statement. Mr. Smith stated that it was an 
accidental discovery of his own. 

Pabkke's Ooppeb Habdening process is performed by introduc- 
i ig an adiiiixture of a minute quantity of phosphorus into the 
metal. 

Flux fob Welding Coppbb. — Boracic acid, 2 parts ; phosphate 
of soda, 1 part ; mix. This welding powder should be strewn over 
the surface of copper at a red heat ; the pieces should then be 
heated up to a full cherry red, or yellow heat, and brought imme- 
diately under the hammer. Heat the copper at a tlaine,-or gas jet, 
where it will not touch charcoal or solid carbon. 

To iMPBovB PooB Ibon. — Black oxide of manganese, 1 part; 
copperas and common salt, 4 parts each ; dissolve in soft water, 
and boil till dry ; when cool, pulverize, and mix quite freely with 
nice welding sand. When you have poor iron which you cannot 
afford to throw away, heat it, and roll it in this mixture ; working 
for a time, reheating, «c., will soon free it from all inipurities, 
which is the cause of its rottenness. By this process you can make 
good horse-nails out of common iron. 

Casb-Habdbnikg fob Ibon. — Cast iron may be case-hardened by 
beating to a red heat, and then rolling it in a composition com- 
posed of equal parts of prutsiate of potash, sal-ammonia, and salt- 
potre, all pulverized and thoroughly mixed. This must be got to 
every part of the surface ; then plunged, while yet hot, into a bath 
containing 2 oz. prnssiate of potash, and 4 oz. sal-ammoQiac tq 
each gallon of cold water. 



!i&il| 



Ji f: 



; r. 



■I 



180 MApHlIiriSTB, SNaiNXK|U9, 40,, RBOEIPTS. ^ 

^Q Winn Ca9t Irqu.— T^e b«Bt w»y of Wfldinc cast ii^bnis to 
take it at a Very intense heat, closely apprqacimo^ th^ |Q|9r^i;ifi; 
point. In tl)i8 state it will l^e fyvin^ ^uf^^ieti^l j ix)alleaf)le tcj stand 
tl^e ppecaiioh oi weldinsr py th^ baviOC!ir> ^9Tb are other ^ethodg, 
but ntiQ3t qf them ^re fitt9n4«4 !^ al)^|it liis^rmoai^tahte oli^cul- 
ties. ■ 

Babdiniko and FnuNO for Fmi-PBOor SAl'SB.-r-JBlxperiei^ce has 
showi^ th^t tJtiQ fire i^nd hurglfur-proof diavona chill for iroii or 
steel, depicrihed in aTiotW part of this worf , ha^ ho superior as a 
hardening for security in the construction of ^af^ | and, as a nbn< 
conductor of hea^ \f.e if ould recommend a ^liqg of piaster of Paris 
or alum, ft is claimed pv soine that a mixture of bqth of these articles' 
forms the be^t known plline for safes, a? an external appUq^^iop of 
intense heat is cjertain tp Uoerate a large quantity of yt»^, which 
is transfbmedinto steam, thus ensuing entire safety to the cOJft^nts 
of the Sfife. Other manufacturers emplpy a concrete fillihir for 
Bafes, ana e^tol it v^ry highly. Ur. MOtfat, ga^' a^il steamutter, 
Boston, hie^3 }nform(;i^ n»e that^e has applied lor protection in 
the matter of a discovery by which he cfj|^|a^ that ne can fully 
protect a safe against a double blast furnace neat, by means of an 
ontsidQ lining of bricks ipp^ippsed of asja^atos and kaolinu a very 
small portaoiToElypf the letter naaterial It^ing i^sed. From the 
well known incbinbnstible nature pf tl^es^ mf),t^r|als, t^ere can be 
no reafpnable dpubt but that the cli^im in questiop ^ a just one. 

For AlULLiiiAitLKlRpN.-— it^qt the articles in ah iron box, and stra- 



tify them f^ohg anipS'i carbon, that is, pieces of hpr^^, hoofs, 
BMns'rorleiither^ just sufficiently burned tp op reduced tp poVder. 
Lute thp t|dx vritn equal parts of san^i and cify ; then place it in 
the ftei, and keep at a lignt red heat for a length of time propor- 
tioned tP \h» 4eptb pf steel req^nirred, Tjrhen tl^e contentci pf the box 
are emptiea intp water. • 

Anothbs vor Wrought Iron.— Take i>rnssiate of potash, 
finely piflve^^cL ai^d rpl], the article in it, if its shape admits of 
it : if not, qiiinkte tbe ponder upon it freely while thp iron is hot. 

To a6«i?BN Oast I^on po» Driji^linq.— Heat tp ^ cherry red, 
lettinfflt lip iefe) in t^e fire ; then with a pair of cold tongs put on 
a biece of briifistpjup, a iiitle less in size than thtt hple T^iilbe when 
dmred, and it soften^ en^rely through t^9 pie,9^; let it li^ in the 
fire until ^ ^ttle cool, when it is ready for drilling. 

^6' iTOIPBR ^pocHOS.— l^pr i^n^pering cast-steel frap pprin^s, all 
that is necessary 19 to beat them in the c^fA;, just so that 7014 can 
see that tbey are fed ; then cppl them in lupwarm :vrater. You 
can observe a much lower degree of heat in the 4ftr^ fhan by 
dayli^h^ and the lo'tf heat an4 warm ^ater giy^ thp desired 
temppr. 

Dipping Tools whbn Hardb^ng.— Tp hardpn ^ penknife blade, 
lancet, rai^or, chisel, gpvj^-bit, plane, ppoke-shaye, Jron shaving 
knife, th^ee and four Squire files, an4 ro]and aB4 %t n^es. dip them 
endwise or perj^ndicularly. Thi^ keeps theifi 9tr^g|it, which 
would not be the cape ^ere they dijppfii m thje waijer pl^nely. 

n^^T I^pN Obnahb2^T9 are ren^ored suscepiibil^pfbe^g fished 
with a scraper, where they cannot be reached with fijlei, 4fW hftv* 
Ihg the folipwing liquid applied to them. 



PTS. 



<V 



SIAOHINISTS, SNOINSEBS) 40., RSOIBIPTS. 181 



cast ii;6n i^ Xo 

ftaWe tci S^nd 
other wmodj, 

Bxperiei^ce has 
lill fOT iron or 
10 BVPfi^or as a 
; aria, as fc non- 
plaatejr of Pane 
of tbe^e articles' 
JapplijqaWof 
»f Wa^, wCich 
^totljfiCOl^tentB 
iwte filling for 
a^d gteapafitter, 
ir protection in 
%i he can fully 
by means of an 
I kaolin, a very 
fped. Irom the 
^9, jhere can be 
I ij9 a just o?ie. 
i« box, and stra- 
of hor^ij. hoofs, 
tuced to poVder. 
ithen place it in 
qf time propor- 
Ltents of the box 

» 
j,te of potash, 
shape admits of 
e the iron is hot. 
) a chqrry red, 
id tongs put on 
)le will be when 
fet it U^ in the 

Irap pprinfj?, all 
^ so tbati yoi^ can 
' m water. You 

iiy^ the dp8>r«*^ 

Uenknife blade, 
le, jro)i shaving 
It fites. dip them 
tegjit, which 

sr Wq^i^lfv , 
JS;{^t»chav. 



SoALiNa Cast Iroh.— Vitriol, 1 part; winter, 2 pacts; mix and 
lay on the diluted vitriol with some old cloth in the form of a 
brush, enough to wet the surface well : after 8 or 10 hours, wash 
off with water, when the hard, scaly surface will be completely 
removed. 

Vabnish fob sifooTH MOULDING Pa-^tsbne^— Alcohol, 1 g«l. ; shellac, 

1 lb. ; lamp or ivory black, sufficient to color it. 

Iron Lu&trb is obtained by dissolving a piece of zinc with 
munatic acid, and mixing the solution with spirit of tar, and apply- 
ing it to the surface of the iron. 

To MBLT SvEBL AS EAsiLT Ad Lbad. — This apparent impossibility 
is performed by heating the bar of iron or ste^l rea hot, ana 
then touching it with a roll of brimstone, when the metaJ will drop 
like water. Ked hot iron can be easily cut with a saw. 

Patbnt Ldbrioatinq Oil.— Water, 1 gal-; clean tallow, 3 lbs.; 
palm oil, 10 lbs. ; comiuon soda, I lb. Heat the mixture to about 
2I0<=> Fahr. ; stir well till it codl^ down to 70^ I'ahr., when it is fit 
for use. 

Bl^ck having a Polish for Iron.— Pulverized gum asphaltum, 

2 lbs. ; gam benzoin, i lb. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 gal. ; to make 
quick, keep in a warm place, and shake oftei^ ; shade to suit with 
finely eround ivory black. Apply with a brush. And it ought to 
bQ used on iron exposed to the weather ag wqU as on inside work 
desiring a nice appearance or p< lidh. 

Varnish for Iron. — Asphaltum, 8 lbs. ; m^lt in an iron kettle, 
slowly adding boiled linseed oil, 6 gals. ; litharge, 1 lb. ; and apX- 
phate of ^inc, i lb. ; continuing to boil for 3 hours ; then add dark 
gum amber, 1^ lb. ; and continue to boil 2 hours longer. When 
cool, reduce to a proper consistence to apply with a orush, with 
spirits of turpentine. 

Tempering Mill Picks. — Get double refined cast steel mad9 
expressly for mill picks. In drawing oi;t the pick, use an anvU and 
hammer with smooth faces, and be careful not to heat the steel 
higher than a dark cherry red. Do not strike the pick on the edge 
wneo finishing it, but hammer it on the flat side, strikinsr light and 
often, until the steel is quite dark, letting the blows fall so as to 
clQse the pores of the steel. When a uozen picks are ready to 
temper, get 2 gals, of rain water from which toe chill should be 
taken, iiin winter, by dipping a hot iron into it ; add 2 lbs. salt, and 
it is ready for use. Heat your pick gradually from the centre ; let 
the heat run to the point, and when it is a dark cherry red, dip 
the point vertically into the bath and hold it still. When the heat 
has left the part immersed, take it out, and cool the balance of the 
pick in ordinary wate.r. Be sure to heat and hammer well. 

Welding Oast Stbbl. — Rock saltpetre, i lb. : dissolve in i lb. oil 
vitriol ; and add it to 1 gal. water. After scarfing the steel, get it 
hot ; and quench in the preparation. Then weld it the same as a 
piece of iron, hammer it very quick with ligfht blows. It answers 
the purpose much better than borax ; co^k it in a bottle, and it will 
keep for years. 

Another.— Borax, 15 parts ; sal-ammoniac, « parts ; cyanide of 
potassium, 2 parts ; dissolve all in water, and evaporate the water 
«t A low tpmnftrntnm 



182 



MAOHINISTS, ENGlisEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



i 



Cabb Habdbnino Compound.— PruBsiate of potash, 3 lbs. ; sal-am- 
moniac, 2 lbs. ; bone dust. 2 lbs. 

Anothbb.— Pulverized borax any quantity, and slightly color it 
with dragon's blood. Heat the steel red hot, shake the borax over 
it ; place it again in the fire till the borax smokes on the steel, 
"whicfi will be much below the ordinary welding heat, and then 
hammer it. 

Obmdkt to Rbbibt Rbd Hbat and Boiling Watbb. — To 4 or 6 
parts of clay, thoroughly dried and pulverized, add 2 parts of fine 
iron filings' free from oxide, 1 part of peroxvde of manganese, 
1 part of common salt, and ^ part of borax. Mingle thoroughly, 
render as fine as possible, then reduce to a thick paste with the 
necessary quantity of water, mixing well ; use immediately, and 
apply heat, gra4}ially increasing almost to a white heat. 

Gbmbnt to Join Ubctions of Cast-Iron W hbbls, &g. — Make a 
paste df pure oxide of lead, litharge, and concentrated glycerine. 
iJurivalled for fastening stone to stone or iron to iron. 

Vabnibh vor Boilbrs. — Asphaltum dissolved in turpentine. 

Soft Gbmbnt fob Stkam-boilbrs, Steam-pipbb, &c. — Red or 
white lead, in oil, 4 parts ; iron borings,. 2 to 3 parts. 

Hard' Gbmbnt. — Iron borings and salt water, and a small quan- 
tity of sal-ammoniac, with fresh water. 

Mbtal Polish.— Rotten-stone, followed by Paris whito and 
rouge. 

Gasfittbrb' Gbmbnt.— Mix together resin, 4i parts ; wax, 1 
part ; and Venetian red, 3 parts. 

Plumbbbb' Gbmbnt.— Black resin, 1 part ; brick dust, 2 parts, 
well incorporated by a melting heat. 

C'Oppbbsmithb' Gbmbnt. — Boiled linseed oil and red lead mixed 
together into a putty^ are often used by coppersmiths and 
engineers to secure joints ; the washers of leather or cloth are 
smeftred with this mixture in a pasty state. 

GoMPOSiTioNB TO PiLL HoLEB IN Gastings.— Mix 1 part of borax 
in solution with 4 parts dry clay. Another : Pulverized binoxide 
of manganese, mixed with a strong solution of silicate of soda 
(water clay) to form a thick paste. 

Gast Ibon Gbmbnt.- Glean borings, or turnings of cast iron, 16 
parts ; sal-ammoniac, 2 parts ; flour of sulphur ^1 part ; mix them 
well together in a mortar, and keep them dry. When required for 
use, take of the mixture, 1 part ; clean borings, 20 parts ; mix 
thoroughly, and add a sufficient quantity of water. A little grind- 
stone dust added improves the cement. 

Gbmbnt for Stbam-pipb Joints, etc., with Faced Flanges. — 
White lead, mixed, 2 parts; red lead, dry, 1 part; grind, or 
otherwise mix them to a consiotence of thin putty ; apply inter- 
posed layers with 1 or 2 thicknesses of canvas, or gauze wire, as 
the necessity of the case may be. 

Gbmbnt for Joints of Iron Pipes or Holes jn Gabtingb. — Take 
of iron borings, coarsely powdered, 5 lbs. ; of powdered sal- 
ammoniac, 2 oz. 2 of sulphur, 1 oz., and water sufficient to moisten 
it. This composition hardens rapidly, but, if time can be allowed, 
it sets more firmly without the sulphur. Use as soon as mixed, 
and ram tightly into the joints or holes. 



MACHINISTS^ ENQINEZRS, ftO., RECEIPTS. 183 



Wire, as 



Black Yabnish tor Goal Buokits.— Asphaltum, 1 lb. ; lamp- 
black, i lb. ; resin, i lb. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 qt. Dissolve toe 
asphaltum and resin in the turpentine, then rub up thp lamp-black 
with linseed oil, only sufficient to form a paste, and mix with the 
others. Apply with a brush. , 

SoLDBRiNO Fluid.— Take 2 oz. muriatic acid ; add zinc till bub- 
bles cease to rise ; add ^ teaspoonful of sal-ammoniac. 

Japan Flow for Tin. — All OoLORS.-Gum sandarach, 1 lb, ; bal- 
sam of fir, balsam of tolu, and acetate of lead, of each, 2 oz. ; lin- 
seed oil, i pint: spirts of turpentine, 2 qts. Put all into a suitable 
kettle, except tne turpentine, over a slow fire at first ; then raise 
to a higher heat till all are melted; now t-ke from the fire, and, 
when a little cool, stir in the spirits oi turpentine, and strain 
through a fine cloth. This is transparent ; but by the following 
modincations, any or all of the various colors are made from 
it: 

2. Black. — Prussian blue, 1 oz. ; asphaltum, 2 oz. ; spirits of 
turpentine, ^ pint. Melt the asphaltum in the turpentine ; rub up 
the blue witn a little of it ; mix well, and strain ; then add the 
whole to 1 pint of the first, above. 

3. Blub.— Indigo and Prussian blue, both finely pulverized, of 
each ^ oz. ; s})irits of turpentine, 1 pint. Mix well, and strain. 
Add of this to 1 pint of the^rs^ until the color suits. 

4. Red.— Take spirits of turpentine, J pt. ; add cochineal, ^ oz. ; 
let stand 15 hours and strain. Add of this to the first to suit the 
fancy. If carmine is used instead of cochineal, it will make.a fine 
color for watch hands. 

5. Yellow. — Take 1 oz. of pulverized root of curcuma, and stir 
of it into 1 pt. of the^r«; until the color pleases you ; let stand a 
few hours, and strain. 

6. Green.— Mix equal parts of the blue and yellow together, 
Mien mix with the^rs^ until it suits the fancy. 

7. Orangev — Mix a little of the red with more of the yellow, and 
then with the first as heretofore, until pleased. 

8. Pink. — Mix a little of the blue to more in quantity of the red, 
and then with the first until suited. Apply with, a brush. 

Transparent Blub for Iron or Stbbl. — I)emar varnish, f gal. ; 
fine ground Prussian blue, i oz, ; mix thoroughly. Makes a 
splendid appearance. Excellent for bluing watch-h&nds. 

To Tin Copper Stew Dishes, &c. — ^wash the stirface of the 
article to be tinned with sulphuric acid, and rub the surface well, 
so as to have it smooth and free of blackness caused by the acid ; 
then sprinkle calcined and finely pulverized sal-ammoniac upon 
the surface, holding it over a fire, when it will be sufiBciently not 
to melt a bar of solder which is to be rubbed over the surface. 
Any copper dish or vessel may be tinned in this way. 

To Copper the Surface of Iron, Steel, or Iron Wibb. — Have 
the article perfectly clean, then wash with the following solution, 
and it presents at once a coppered surface. Bain water, 3 lbs.; 
sulphate of copper, 1 lb. 

Black Bronzs on Iron or Steel.— The following mixtures are 
'-jiployed: liquid No. 1. A mixture of bichloride of mercury and 
B«l-ammoniac. No- 2. A mixture of perchloride of iron, sulphate 



■-■•1 T 

Mil 



ofcopper, )iitri<;acid, i^cphol «^{|v '. No 3. Perobl^rido i^ad 
p(otocnlori4<[ of mercury mixed Wi< 'itrio acid, alcphpl and 
water. Ko. 4. A week solutioQ of sum .e of pQti^ima. Oleaa 
your metal well and f^pply a Blight coHt of Ko. 1 with i^ sponge; 
when (juite dry, applv another coat. fi»move the resultin{f crust 
of oxldfB with a wife prv^hi rub tl^e metal ^ith e^ clean rag, and 
repeat this operation ^fier each application of these liauids. Kow 
apply s^yeral co^t^ of No. 2, and l^BQ of No. 3, with a niU sponge ; 
then, after drying for ten minutes, tbrow the pieces of metal iAtf 
water heate^ near the boiling point ; let them remain in the wader 
from 6 tQ 10 minutes according to their size. After beinc cleanei, 
coyer t^g^iv^ ^ith several coatings of No. 3, afterwards with a 
strong citing of No. 4 ; then again immerse in the bath of hot 
water. Eem<ive from toe b^ttb, dry, and wipe the pieces with 
elided cotton dipped in liquid No. 3i diluted each time with an in- 
creased quantity of wafer ; then rub and wipe them with a little 
oUv(| oil ; agaix^ impjisrse in a wat^r bath heated to 140 o Fahr., r.e- 
moyc| tbem. ru|^ brisfly with a woollen rag, and lastly, with oil. 
Unefli^^ill^cf foe pro^Vfping a beautiful glossy blapk on gun-barrelSj 
steel, iron, &c. it ■ ' 

TiifWiNa, SMfl'i' AftTiOMIff.— piaji^lye a^ much zinc scraps in muri- 
atic acid 'sa. » wiU take Up, let it futile, then decant the clear, and 
it IS ready for use. N^zt prepare a 9Uitabl^ ironyessel, set it oyer 
the fire, pnt ypur tin tqerein, and melt it and put as much mutton 
or beef tallow as will coy6r the tin abont | inch thick. This 
p^yent^ 1<be oxj^datioii of t^e metal; biit be yery carefVil that 
the tallow does not catch fire. The iron, or any other metal to be 
tinned, n^u^t be w^U clmn^d^ either with scraping, filing, polishing 
with Band, or immersion in diluted yltrlot. Proceedto wet th^ 
articles in t'he zinc solution^ then carefully immerise them in the 
taUow and ^eltf>4 ^u ; in g yery s^ort tin^e theiy "^^^ be>per&,ctly 
tinned, when they may be takepi out. ' 

Q(Q(L^ liAOQU^ r9^ ^Ilf.— t^NBPARBMT, ^LL Goi'QBS.-AlCOhol in 

a flask, ipt.; iada gui^ s^llap, 1 oz; turmeric, i oz. ; red ganders, 
i QSf>, PfA th9 flf^k in a ^arm place, shake frequently for 1^ hoiirs 
or more, tIteA Sitrain'oja the Ifquof, iinfe tue bottle, and return it, 
corking tightly for u«>. ' 

When this ygr^ifh la used, it must be applied to thp -v^ork freely 
and flowing, f^hd the «rt|cle^ ^ould b^ hot when applied. OnO 
or B|orQ <^t|S mM Ijielaid on^ i^s the color is required more pr le^s 
light or de^p. 4lany of it should become thick &0m eyaporatioii, 
at any tim.e, thiiji it '^ith alcohol. And by th^ following modificar 
tions, all tfoyarioi?8C9lpr8 are obtained : ' 

2. Roafi Coi<o|.-77f'ro99ed eis aboye, substituting \ pz. of finely 
ground Dps.| la^9 in pla<59 of the turmeric^ 

3. Btni.— The h^uig is made by substituting pulye^ized Prussian 
blue, J oz.. in plab? pf the turmeric. . . -., 

4. Puj|ipL^— Am !^ little of tl^e blue to, the^rrf. 

6. Giu|Bj|[.~i^dd 9k little' pf the rose-colpr to the j\rst. 

CRTSTAttizBD Tiit-FLATB.— The figurcs are more or less beautir 
fuj anjd[ dlT9r^i%d, aopording to the degree of heat and relatiyp 
di^tioh of tb;^ acid. Plftp9 the tin-plate, sl^ght^ heatjed, oVer a 
tub of If i^$er^ ftjpa r^b it? ^ur^'^c^ ^t * ?P<*8ft dipped in a lic^uof 




HAOHINISTB, ENQIKXia^, *0,| BXOXIPTS. 185 

con^po(ied of 4 parUi of aquftfortiv %n^ 2 pf di^tUlod J[tS^h holding 
I jfptityf common salt or Bal-ammo^ac in Bomiibn. whenerer ti^p 
crystalline ip'angles seem to be ihoroug^y bjr^ught out, ^^ pla'e 

S' lust be immieiriBed in water, washed eltner witli a^<^flkthi9f or a littl^ 
otton (talcing care i^ot to rub ait the film of tin ihat fbrn^s the 
fathering), iOrth with dried withalo^ heat, and (fOate^ w!tl^ % 
^cquer Y^niiBh, otherwise it loses its lustre in t^e air. If the whol^ 
surface is nqi plunged at once in cold winter, biit if it b 
tiallr copied by spnnkling wa^er on it, the ciyS]ta|U?;fi^o»i 
fibely rari^gafed yrith larans and small figures, ^milar rcsu 
be oDtaine^by blowing cold ah* through a pipe on the t^nnc ^ 
f^ce. whi|e ^t is just passing fron) the fused to the solid sta^. 
' To CRTBTALfiifiSB THr.— yulphurfc acld, 4 o?. ; s^^ "Y*%l M? ^ 
oz., i^ccording td^trengt^ o]Pihe ac^d ; salt, 1| oz. Il^ix. ^Vat the 
(iti hot over a stove, tnen, with a sponge apmj the i)ii!^tnr^, Hk^n 
wasl^ off direct^ly with clean water, ptj toe ^n, and v^rjii^h w|tb 
demar vi^rhish. 

To CLIA.N AiTD Polish Brass.— Oil of vitriol, 1 oz. ; syrjeet oil, 4 
gill ; pulverized rotten stone, I gill ; rain w^^rl ll pts. Jilix: all. 
Slid shake as i^sed. Apply Wi^h a rag, and pqlis,hVi^ bf^cjcfkin 
or old woollen. 

SiLVBRiNO Powder. — Nitrate of silver an^ common ^aU, of qach, 
30 fffs. : cream of tartar. 3J drs. If iilverize finely, ni'ixthqro^ffhly. 
andbottie for use. ' TTn^qualled for p9|t^^i|D|g ^];>pef |(i^^ V\^^ 
goods. ■••■''' ' . ■ . • I » , ■ • 

10' ^y o;? inch^B. 



Tin Ganb.— ^izb of S^ibt, for from 1 to IQO ( 
For 1 gallon, '1 by 20 inches.' |*0r '25 gallons, 



P 



u 

II 
It 
a 



<i 
i< 
II 
11 



4Q 

ib 

76 
100 



4QSy -^ 



46 

4Q .^ 



II 
<i 
II 



n by 40 

6 " 14 by 40 

10 " iO by 42 

16 " 3^ bt 42 

. Thj? includeMIth^ W searn^ ^c., f 1^9^ ^^ be ^«^4 piifi^- 
ciently correct for all practical purpppeB. 

TIMING Iron:— Oleahse the 'metal to be tinned, and rub with a 
coarse croth, previously dijpped m ^yc|rocI^Iprlc acid (mnp^|tic 
acid), and theri'rub on FrguchDUt^ )fl% '# '^J^f^^. <?TO- ^^^^^ 
putty IB made by miiii^ tm filings with p6f(yafy. 

TiNNiNia.— I. Plates or vessels of briassbr coppier bj^jled i^itb a 
solution of ataiwate o? PP^Sga mij;e,4 fmtnmk^^Unf hes9m^ 
m the course of a re^ n^inutcis, cpyefed wiW^ffl nrajiyatjtfched 
l^yer of pure' tih;. 2. A sin^ilar eflfect is produgel^ by boiling the 
articles with tin-filings aijid caubtfc alkali or cr^am of ^tkr. In 
the above' wiayjchjemical vessel^'n^de of c6pp^^ 6r bi|ass ni^y b^ 
easily and per^ctly tinnjsdr" ' '" '■ ' ' •,-.(-,. 

NB^y Tinning Proobss.— Articles to hi^ tipped are firgt covered 
with dilute gPlphuric acld^ and, when quite clea^^^^ are placed' in 
w^rm waleip itheit dipped in a ^olutipn or^i^'riatic acidj copper, 'and 
zinc, and then pFupffed into a tin baUi to whijch a[ smul quantity 
of zinp has been lidded. When the tinning 19 finished,* the f^M^^^ 
are tieik^n out, and plunged into boiling wat^r> " The' operation is 
copipleted by pfacing them in a very v^arm ^an(^-b)a^h. ' T^b iofjt 
prpceis softens the iron. ""' '" "'' 



i "11 


1 ''''li'^'^ffl 


1 : '^]i[H 


LhH 



m^ 






I 



1S6 MACHINISTS, BNGINEERS, &0,, RECEIPTS. 

KcsTiTUN't MiTAL roR TiNNiKO.— Malleable iron, 1 lb , beat (d 
ivbiteness ; add 6 oz. regulus of antimony, and Molucca tin, 24 lbs, 

Galvanizino Iron.— The iron plates are first immersed in a 
cleansing bath of equal parts of sulphuric or muriatic acid and 
water used warm ; tney are then scrubbed with emery or sand, to 
clean them thoroughly and detach all scales if any are left ; after 
which they are immersed in a " preparins bath" of eoual parts of 
saturated solutions of chloride of zinc and chloride or ammonium, 
from which bath they are directly transferred to the fluid '* metal- 
lic bath," consisting, by weight, of 640 lbs. zinc to 106 lbs. of mer- 
cury, to which are added from 6 to 6 oz. of sodium. As soon as 
the iron has attained the temperature of this hot fluid bath, which 
is 680® Fahr., itmay be removed, and will then be found tbo- 
roughly coated with zinc. A little tallow on the surface of the 
metallic bath will prevent oxidation. 

Pahtr for Cleaning Mbtals.— Take oxalic arid, 1 part ; rotten- 
stone, 6 parts ; mu, with equal parts of train oil and spirits of tur- 
])entine, to a paste. 

To Prbvbnt Iron or Strbl from Rubtino.— Warm your iron or 
steel till you cannot bear your hand on it without burning your- 
self, then rub it with new and clean white wax. Put it again to 
t^e fire till it has soaked in the wax. When done, rub it over with 
a piece of seree. This prevents the metal from rusting afterwards. 

Bronzing Liquids roR Tin Oabtings.— Wash them over, after 
being well cleaned and wiped, with a solution of 1 part of sulphate 
of iron and 1 of sulphate of copper, in 20 parts of water ; after- 
wards, with a solution of 4 parts verdigris in 11 of distilled vine- 
gar ; leave for an hour to dry and then polish with a soft brush 
and colcothar. 

Fancy Colors^on Mbtals.— 1. Dissolve 4 oz. bTpo-snlphite of soda 
in 1^ pts. of water, and then add a solution of 1 oz. acetate of lead 
in 1 oz. of water. Articles to be colored are placed in the mixture, 
which is then gradually heated to the boiling point. This will give 
iron the color of blue steel, zinc becomes bronze, and copper or 
brass becomes, successivelv, yellowish, red, scarlet, deep blue, 
light blue, bluish white, and finally white, with a tinge of rose. 2. 
By replacing the acetate of lead in the solution by sulphate of cop- 
per, brass becomes, first, of a fine rosy tint, then green, and lastly, 
of an irridescent brown color. 

Coating Iron Castings with Gold or Silvbr.>— I'he articles to 
be gilded are well cleaned and boiled in a porcelain vessel, 
together with 12 parts of mercury, 1 of zinc, 2 of iron vitriol, 1^ of 
muriatic acid of 1.2 specific gravity, and 12 parts of water ; in a 
f^hort time a layer of mercury will deposit upon the iron, and upon 
•'Ms the ^old amalgam may be uniformly distributed. Iron to be 
silvered is first provided with a coating of copper, upon which the 
silver is applied either by means of amalgam or silver leaf. 

Brunswick Black for Gratbs, &c.— Asphaltum. 5 lbs. ; melt, 
and add boiled oil, 2 lbs. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 gal. Mix. 

Bronzb Paint for Iron. — Ivory black, 1 oz. ; chrome yellow, 
1 oz. I * chrome green, 2 lbs. ; mix with raw linseed oil, adding a 
little japan to dry it, and you have a very nice bronze green. If 
desired, gold bronze may be put on the prominent parts, as on the 



cated tincture or iron if tbe tioc- 

; bl|»cls Dri|kgtoiie, i oz.: l|IuiB 

te, ^ oz.; mtno ittia. I aram; 

I rain Water, and bottle for nie' 



MACHINISTS, INOINE1B0, *0., AXOlIPTf. 18!7 

<ipi oredgei of an iron railing, when tke paint )i not qnitii dry, 
using a piece of velvet or plain to rub on tne bronze. 

Bldino on RavoLviRS and Odn BARRiLs.ia perfui:oied bTilsipI^ 
Ueating tbe pie^e to be blued m povf^oredcl^ar^oal oyer afire ui|til 
Ihe desired color is obtained. 

BaoWNiNa roa Qdn Baraiilb.— Spirits of nitre, 1 lb. ; alcohol, 1 
lb. i corrosive sublimate, I oz. ; jaix in a bottle, and cork for ti|se. 
Directiops : poli8|i the bai;rel pf^rfect ; t|fen rob it with quick liine 
with a oloth^ which removes jfr^ase ^d dirt; npif ^VP^J t^ 
brownmg fluid with a clean white cloth, ^ppljr one,cpat, and s^t it 
in a wartn dark place for from 10 to 26 hpi^rs, ^^^l i» red rui^t fojir^p 
on it ; then cara it down with a gunrnftkers cafd, ana rub Q^ with 
a clean cloth. Repeat the process if vou wish a dark ih^p* 

Browning for Twist Ba^Rzls. — 3pii;itcof nitre, } oz. :tinctjire 
ot steel, f uz. ; or use tbe unmedicated tincture of iron if the tinc- 
ture of steel cannot be obtained; "--'-^-'-^ — •■■ 
vitriol, I oz., corrosive sublimate, 
coi)pera3, ^ oz ; mix with U pints rafn Water, i^nd 
This is to be appliec) the same as tbe fir^t; it (f^es the' twi9t of 
tbe barrel to be visible after application, it qualityVhiChitiO 9U>9? 
liQuid does not possess. ■ " ' ' ' '"' ''^ ^-^ •' '^^ 

Brownino Compositions vor Gitn Barrblji.— 1. Blue TUf101, 4 
oz : tincture of muriate of iron, 3 O^- ; wat^ I ^t. ; 4|s8oiye) and 
ada aquafortis and sweet spirits of nitfe, of ^acb, 1 ois. 2. Bl'ne 
vitriol iind sweet spirits of nitre, of each 1 oz. ; Mua^tis, i bz. ; 
water, I pint. To be used in (he Bame ma^er as prevloiiBlf 
described m this work. 

Varnish and Polish forQun STpoKB. — Gum flhellac, lQoz.:|^m 
sandarach, 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine, 1 dr. ; dS'jpereent. al^n<>l) I 
gal. ; shake the jug occasionally for a daj oi* two, and it is ready 
for use. Apply a few coats of this to your gun stocks, potiBti'by 
rubbing smooth and your work is complete. 

Brass roa HrfAVY Oabtinqb.— Qopper, 6 to TpiMrtf; tu^, IpMt; 
zinc, 1 part. 

YniLLOw Brass (Jor ecuttruf),—!. Qqpp^r, ^1.6 pM^ty : n\HQ,3fi.3 
parts ; lead, 2.9 parts ; tin, 0.2 parts. 2. Brass qjT Jemajtpe^. — 
Copper, 64.6 parts; zinc, 33.7 parts; lea<i^, 1.4 par^; tiQ) Q<^ pwr^s. 
3. sheet Brass of Slolberg. near Axx la (Shafjtlle. — iQQpper, 64«^ 
parts ; zinc, 32.8 parts ; lead, 2.Q parts ; l^n, 0.4 par^p. 4. J^'Araets 
Brass for wiWin^.— Copper, 63.70 p|irits:ipinc, 33-66 parj;^; lead, 
0.25 parte; tin, 2.50 parts. 6. Another. — Cqppej, 6445 pai:;^ ; zinc 
32.4^ parte: lead, 2.86 parts; tin, 6.25 parts. 6. Sheet Brass qf 
Romilhj.— Grouper, 70.1 parts ; zinc, 28.9 p^r^. 7. ^nglisfi Brans 
ITire.— Copper, 70.29 p(i.rts; zinc, 2^.26 pfu^is; lea^, Q.2$ partfi; 
tin, 0.17 parts. 8. Augsburg Brass Ir ire.— Copper, 7^.9$ parts; 
zinc, 27.63 parts , tin, 0.85 parts* 

Red Brass, for Gilt Articles. — 1. Cppper, 82.0 pftiis ; eiAC, 19.(( 
p its; lead, l.B parts; tin, 3.Q pfirts. 2. 4no<^/.— iGopp^r, 92 
parts; zinc, 18' parts; lead, C part^; tin, 1, part. 3. Anc{ther.-- 
Coppor, 82.3 parts; zinc- It.o pfirt^i tiuj 0.2 pa^. ,4- J^ffinfh 
TomhoG for Sword Handles. — Copper, 80 parts; zinc, 17 parijB; tii;i, 
parts. 5. For Parisian. Ornaments.— Oqw^^ iSJt PKUts ; ^ii;iCt 15 
pfirtc J tin? a trace. 6. l/ned for OervM,n (?rna7»«n<j»,— 0pppnr, ^.% 



if 

: teJ 



188 MACHINISTa, £!^0INE£R8, kC, RECSIPT8. 



Chrysochalk.—Covper, 90.0 parts ; zinc, 
8. Red Toinbac from Paris. -Copper, 



?art8 ; zinc, 14.7 parts, "fc 
.9 parts; lead, 1.6 parts. 
92 parts ; zinc, 8 pu'ts. 

Compositions.— I. For strong pumt>s, ^c— Copper, 1 lb. ; zinc, 
^ oz. ; tiu, 1^ oz. 2. For toothed wheels. — Copper, 1 lb. ; brass, 2 oz. ; 
tin, 2 oz. 3. Copper, 1 lb. ; brass, 2 oz. ; tin, 1| oz. 4. For tum- 
tng work. — Copper. 1 lb. ; brass, IJ oz. ; tin, 2 oz. 5. For nuts qf 
coarse threads ana bearings. — Copper, 1 lb. ; brass. 1^ oz, ; tin, 
2i oz. 6. For hearings to sustain great weights. — Copper, 1 lb. ; 
zinc, i oz, ; tin, 2* oz. 7. Pewtererr temper. — Tin, 2 lbs. ; copper, 
1 lb. Used to add in small (quantities to tin. 8. Iiard bearings for 
machinery. — Copper, 1 lb. ; tm, 2 oz. 9. Very hard d»«o.— Copper, 
1 lb. : tin, 2^ oz. 

ANTi-tBicTiON Metal. — 1. Copper, 4 lbs. ; regulus of antimony, 
8 lbs. ; Banca tin, 96 lbs. 2. Grain zinc, 7^ lbs. ; purified zinc, 
7J lbs. ; antimony, 1 lb. 3. Zinc, 17 parts; copper, 1 part; anti- 
mony, 1^ parts. This possesses unsurpassable anti-friction quali- 
ties, and does not require the protection of outer casings of a 
harder mett^l. 4. Block tin, 8 lbs. ; antimony, 2 lbs. ; copper, 1 lb. 
If the metal be too hard, it may be softened by adding some lead. 
5. The best alloy for journal boxes is composed of copper, 24 lbs. ; 
tin, 24 lbs. ; and antimony, 8 lbs. Melt the copper first, tnen add th« 
tin, and lastly the antimony. It should be nrst run into ingots, 
then melted, and cast in tiie form required for the boxes. 6. Melt 
in a crucible 1^ lbs. of copper, and, while the copper is melting 
melt in a ladle 25 lbs. of tin and 3 of antimony, nearly red hot, 
pour the two together, and stir until nearly cool. This makes the 
finest kind of lining metal. 7. Very cheap. Lead, 100 lbs. ; anti- 
mony, 15 lbs. This costs about 10 cents per lb. 

YajLLOw Brass for TuRNiNO.-(Common article. )-Copper, 20 lbs. ; 
zinc, 10 lbs. " 



zinc, 50 lbs. ; 
zinc, 10 lbs. ; 



zmc, 



lead, 4 oz. 

Rbd Brass, frbb, for Turning.— Copper, 160 lbs. 
lead, 10 lbs. : antimony, 44 oz. 

Another Brass for Turning.- Copper, 32 lbs. 
lead, 1 lb. 

Bbsi' Rbd Brass, for Find Castings.— Copper, 24 lbs. , -.^xv., 
6 lbs. ; bismuth, 1 oz. iPut in the bismuth last before pouring off. 

Bronzb Mbtal. — Copper, 7 lbs. ; zinc, 3 lbs. ; tin, 2 lbs. 

Bronzb Mbtal. — Copper, 1 lb.; zinc, 12 lbs. ; tin, 8 lbs. 

Bell Mbtal, for large Bells.— Copper, 100 lbs. ; tin, from 20 
to 25 lbs. 

Bell Mbtal for small Bells 

Cook Mbtal.— Copper, 20 lbs 
timony, 3 oa. 

Hardening For. Britannia.— (To be mixed separately from the 
other in^edients.) — Copper, 2 lbs. ; tin, 1 lb. 

Good Britannia Mbtal. — Tin, 150 lbs. ; copper, 3 lbs 
mony, 10 IbSc 



-Copper, 3 lbs. ; tin, 1 lb. 
lead, 8 lbs. j litharge, 1 oz. ; an- 



Britannia Metal, 2d quality.- Tin, 140 lbs.} copper, 
antimony, lbs. 

Britannia Mbtal, for CASTiNa.- Tin, 2J0 lbs. ; copper, 
pintimony, 12 lbs. 



; anti- 

3 lbs. ; 

4 lbs.; 



>,?>•*:. 



fS. ; copper, 1 lb. 



Copper, 20 lbs. ; 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 189 

BtiTANKiA Metal, for Spinnino.— Tin, 100 lbs. ; Britannia har- 
dening, 4 lbs. ; antimony, 4 lbs. 

White Solder, for raised Britannia Ware.— Tin, 100 lbs. ; 
copp«r, 3 oz., to make it free ; and lead, 3 oz. 

Britannia Metal, for Registers.— Tin, 100 lbs. ] hardening, 8 
lbs. ; antiraony, 8 lbs. 

Best Britannia for Spouts.— Tin, 140 lbs. ; copper, 3 lbs. ; anti- 
mony, 6 lbs. 

Best Britannia for Spoons. — Tin, 100 lbs. ; hardening, 5 lbs. ; 
antimony, 10 lbs. 

Best Britannia for Handles.— Tin, 140 lbs.*; copper, 2 lbs. ; an- 
timony, 5 lbs. 

Best Britannia, for Lamps, Pillars, and Spouts.— Tin, 300 lbs. ; 
copper, 4 lbs. ; antimony, 15 lbs. 

Castinq.— Tin, 100 lbs.; hardening, 5 lbs. ; antimony, 5 lbs. 

Lining Metal for Boxes of> Railroad Cars.— Mix thi, 24 lbs. ; 
copper, 4 lbs. ; antimony, 8 lbs. ; (for a hardening), then add 
tin, 72 lbs. 

Fine Silver Colored MBTAL.—Tin, 100 lbs.; antimony, 8 lbs. 
copper, 4 lbs. ; bismuth, 1 lb. 

German Silver, First Quality, for Casting. — Copper, 50 lbs. 
zinc, 25 lbs. ; nickel, 25 lbs. 

German Silver, Second Quality, for Casting. — Copper, 50 lbs. 
zinc, 20 lbs. ; nickel (best pulverized), 10 lbs. 

German Silver, for Rolling.— Copper, 60 lbs. ; zinc, 20 lbs. 
nickel, 25 lbs. 

German Silver, for Bells, and other Castings.- Copper, 60 
ibs. ; zinc, 20 lbs. ; nickel, 20 lbs. ; lead, 3 lbs. ; iron (that of tin 
'>late being best), 2 lbs. 

Imitation of Silver. — Tin, 3 oz. ; copper, 4 lbs. 

Pinchbeck.— Copper, 5 lbs. ; zinc, 1 lb. , 

Tombac. — Copper, 16 lbs. ; tin, 1 lb. ; zinc, 1 lb. 

Red Tombac— Copper, 10 lbs. ; zinc, 1 lb. 

Hard White Metal. — Sheet brass, 32 oz. ; lead, 2 oz. ; tin,2 oz. ; 
zinc, 1 oz. 

Metal for taking Impressions. — Lead, 3 lbs. ; tin, 2 lbs. ; bis- 
muth, 5 lbs. 

Spanish Tutania.— Iron or steel, 8 oz. ; antimonv, 16 oz. ; nitre, 
3 oz. Melt and harden 8 oz. tin with 1 oz. of the above com- 
pound. 

Rivet Metal. — Copper, 32 oz. ; tin, 2 oz. ; zinc, 1 oz. 

KivET Metal, for Hose. — Tin, 64 lbs. ; copper, 1 lb. 

Fusible Alloy.— (Which melts in boiling water.)— Bismuth, 8 
oz. ; tin, S oz. ; lead, 5 oz. 

Fusible Alloy, for Silvering Glass.— Tin, 6 oz. ; lead, 10 oz. ; 
biiffluth, 21 oz. ; mercury, a small quantity. 

Best Soft Solder, for Cast Britannia Warb. — Tin, 8 lbs. ; 
lead, 5 lbs. 

Brass Solder.— 1. Copper, 61.25 parts ; zinc, 38.75 parts ; 2. 
(YoUow and easily fusible) copper, 45 parts ; zmc, 55 parts ; 3. 
(Wliite) copper, 57.41 parts ; tin, 14.60 parts j zinc, 27.99 parts, 

ypsLTER Solder, Equal parts copper and zmc. 

Soip^B FOB Coi'PKR, — Copper, 10 lbs. ; zinc, 9 lb?. 



111 

u 

1* i{ 



¥■' 



180 SIACOIaXISIS, ENOINEEBS, AC, BEOEIPTS. ~ 

TiLLow Solder, tobBbass OB €oppib.— ^Copper, S2 Ibf. ; li&e. 
29 lbs.; tin, lib. * 

Black SoLDBB.— ^Copper, 2 lbs. ; Bine, S lbs.; tin, 2 oz. 
Black SoldSr.— Sheet brass, 20 lbs. ; tin, 6 lbs. ; zinc, 1 1]t>. 

PftWtBRaBS''SoFT SoLDBBS.— 1. Blsmuth, 2 ; lead, 4 ; tin, 3 parts. 
2. Bismuth, 1 : lead, 1 ; tin, 2 parts. 

Plumbbbb' ooLpBR- — Lead. 8 {wits; tin, 1 part. 
SoLDBR. — For lead, the solder is one part tin, 1 tc 2 of lead ; for 
tin, l'to'2 parts tin to one ofl^ad ; for zinc, 1 part tin to 1 to 2 of 
lead ; for pewter, 1 part tin to 1 of lead, and 1 to 2 parts of bis- 
muth. • 

The surfaces to be joined are made perfectly clean and smootk, 
'and then covered with sal-aapiouiac, or resin, or both ; the solder 
is then applied, being melted in, and smoothed over by the solder- 
ineiron. 

To' SoLDBR Ibon to BTBBti, OR XTrBBB TO Brass.— Tin, 3 parts ; 
copper, 3d4 papts ; zinc, T^ parts. When applied in ^ molten stfite 
it will firmly unite the. metals first named to each other. 

OoppBR^iaTHB' ^LDBB.—Tin, 2 parts ; lead, 1 pact. When the 
copper is thick, beat it by a naked fire ; if thin, use a tinned cop- 
per tool.' Usp muriate or chloride of zinc, or resin, as a flux. The 
same solder will do for iron, cast iron, or 9teei ; if thicS:, heat by a 
naked fire, or immerse in the solder. 

Gold Brazing, without ▲ firb obLamp. — Fluoric acid, ^ oz. ; oxy- 
murialtic acid, \ oz. ; mix, in a lead bottle. Put a chalk mark each 
side wliere you want to Draze. This mixture will keep about 6 
months in one bottle. ' 

Pluiibbrb' iSoLDBB.— Biunuth, 1 parti le^d, 5 parts ; tin, 3 parts is a 
first class composition. 

Gold Soldbbing mthoutfire or ^<zmp.— Bismuth, \ oz. ; quick- 
silver, ioz.; block tin filings,! oz. ; spirits salts, 1 oz., mixed together. 

New and Beautiful Allots. — Copper, 69 8 parts ; nickel, 19.8 
parts ; zinc 5.5 parts ; cadmium, 4.7 j)arts ; used for spoons, forks, &c. 
Another. Copper, 89.3 parts ; aluminum, 10.6 parts. Oreide resem- 
bling Gold. Copper, 79.7 parts ; zinc, 83.05 parts ; nickel, 6.09 parts, 
witn a trace of iron ahd tin. 

Chinbsb White Coppbb.— Copper, 40.4; nickel, 31.6 ; zinc, 25.4; 
and iron, ^.6 parts. 

Bath MsTAii.— Brass, 32 parts.; zinc, 9 parts. 

Spbculum Metal.— Copper, 6 ; tin, 2 ; and arsenic, 1 part. Or, 
copper, 7 ; zinc, 3 ; and tin, 4 parts. 

Britannia M^tal.— Brass, 4 parts ; tin^ 4 parts ; when fused, add 
bismuth, 4 ;' and antimony, 4 parts. This composition is added at 
discretion to melted tin. 

StJPBRioB B^ll Mbtal.— Copper. 100 lbs. : tin, 23 lbs. 

Elbotrum.— Copper, 8; nickel, 4; zinc, 3* parts. This compound 
is unsurpassed for ease of workmanship and beauty of appearance. 

TiNMANs' Solder. — Lead, 1 ; tin, 1 part. 

PatTTBRBRs' Soldbr.— Tin, 2 ; lead, 1 part 

Common Pbwtbr.— Tin, 4 ; lead, 1 part. 

Best Pbwter.— Tin, 100 ; antimony, 17 parts. 

Queen's Metal.— Tin, 9 ; antimony, 1 ; bismuth, 1 ; lead, 1 part. 

Watch-Makbrb' BRAss.'-Copper, 1 pwtj zinc, 2' parts. 



bismut 
in iron 

Geri 

Alba 
parts. 

Bbiti 
to 10 pj 

Chan 
Razors 

Hard 
1 oz. 

BiBMlJ 

Gbbm. 

nickel, 
nickel, 1 
nickel, ; 
nickel, 
Copper, 
Britai 
0.30 pan 
parts ; a 
parts; a: 
parts, fi 
parts; bi 
GunM 
Mbltw 



a; tin, 3 parts is a 



31.6 ; zinc, 25.4; 



parts ', antimonji^ 10 
antimony, 7.14 



kAOHlNISfS, ENOmBBitS, ibC, RECEIPTS. 1^1 

X 1£btai. that kxpands in Goolino.— Lead, 9 ; antimony. 2 ; 
bismutli, 1 part. This metal is very useful in filling small defeets 
in iron sastings, &•. • 

German Brass.— Copper, 1 part ; ainc, I part. 

Albata Mktal.— Niokel, 3 to 4 parts ; copper, 20 parts ; sine, 16 
parts. Used for plated goods. 

British Platk.— Nickel, 6 to 6 parts; copper, 20 parts; zinc, 8 
to 10 parta. Used for platedjfooas. 

Chantbt^s Hard Allot. — Copper, 1 lb. ; zinc, 2i 02. ; tin, 2i;oz. 
Razors as hard as tempered steel have been made from this allor. 

Hard Whitb Metal fob Buttons.— -Brass, 1 lb. ; ziiic, 2 oz. ; tin, 
1 oz. 

BiBKiNOHAit Platin.— Copper, 8 parts ; zinc, 5 parts. 

GtBRMAN SiLVBB.— 1. Coppcr, 40.62 parts ; zinc, ^.76 parts ; 
nickel, 15.62 parts. 2. Copper, 41,47 parts; zinc, 26.08 parts ; 
nickel, 32.45 parts. 3. Copper, 65.55 parts ; ziitc, 5.55 parts ; 
nickel, 38.90 parts. 4. Copper, 63.40 parts; zinc, .29.10 parts; 
nickel, 17.60 parts. 6. (Al/enide contains a trace of iron) — 
Copper, 59.60 parts ; zinc, 30.30 parts ; nickel, 10.10 parts. 

Britannia Metal.— 1. Copper 0.30 parts; tin, 89.70 parts; zin?, 
0.30 parts ; antimony, 9.70 parts. 2. Copper, 1.85 partr tin; 81.64 
parts ; an^mony, 16.61 parts. 3. Copper, 0.91 parts j tin, 89,97 
parts; antimony, 9.12 parts. 4, Tin, 90.00 pai 
part?. 6, Cocker, X.78 parts ; tin, 89.30 parts ; 
parts ; biiimutn, 1.78 parts. 

Gun Metal.— 'Copper, 90 parts ; tin; 10 parts. . 

Melting Point of Metals.— Iron fuses at 2787 ® Fahr. ; gold at 
2016®; silver, 1873®; copper, 1996®; zinc, 773 ® ; antimonir, 
809® ; bismuth, 476 to 507 ® ; nickel, 630® ; tin, 442® ; lead, 334® ; 
mercury volatilizes at 670 ® . 

Chinese Goi^o Metal.— Copper, 78.00 parts ; tin, 22.00. 

Alloy for Gun Mountings. — Copper, 80 parts ; tin, 3 ; zinc, 17. 

White Metal for Table Bells. — Copper, 2.06 parts ; tin, 97.31 
parts ; bismuth, 0.63 parts. 

Clock Bell Metal. — Copper, 76.19 parts, tin, 24.81 parts. 

Socket Metal for Locomotive Axle-trees. — 1. Copper, 86.03; 
tin, 13.97 ; 2. (French) Copper, 82 parts ; tin, 10 parts; zinc, 
8part^; 3, (Stephenson^ s) Copper, 79 parts; tin, 8 parts; zinc, 5 
parts; lead, 8 parts; 4. (Belgian) Copper, 89.02 parts; tin, 2.44 
parts ; zinc, 7.76 parts ; iron, 0.78 parts; 5. (English) Copper, 73.96 
parts ; tin, 9.49 parts ; zinc, 9.03 parts ; lead, 7.09 parts ; iron, 0.48 
parts. 

Brass.- 1. Copper, 73 parts ; zinc, 27 parts ; 2. Copper, 65 parts; 
zinc, 35 parts; 3. Copper, 70 parts ; zinc, 30 parts. 

Alloy for Mechanical Instruments. — Copper, 1 lb. ; tin, I oz. 

Malleable Brass. — 1. Copper, 70.10 parts ; zinc, 29.90 parts ; 2. 
(Superior) Copper, 60 parts ; zinc ; 40 parts. 

Button Makers' Metal. — 1. Copper, 43 parta ; zinc, 67 parts ; 2. 
Copper, 62.22 parts ; tin, 2.78 parts ; zinc, 35 parts ; 3. Coppery 
58.94 parts ; tin, 5.28 parts ; zinc, 35.78 parts. 

MI:tal for Sliding Levers of LooomotiveB.— 1. Copper, 85.2Cf 
parts; tin, 12.75 parts, zinc, 2.00 parts ; 2. (Fenton^a) Copper, 5.50 
parts : tin. 14.50 parts : zinc. 80 parts. 



■ill 



.|r 



m 



192 MAOfilNlSTS, ENGINEERS, AG., RECEIPT^. 

Alloy for Cylindbrs oi- Locomotitbs.— Copper, 88.63 parts ; 
tin. 2.38 parts ; zinc, G.99 parts. 

Alloy for Stdfpino Boxes of Looomotivbb. — Copper, 90.06 
parts ; tin, 3.56 parts ; zinc, 6.38 parts. 

Amalgam for Mirrors.— 1. Tin, 70 parts ; mercury, 30 parts ; 2. 
(I'or curved mirrors) Tin, 80 parts ; mercury, 20 parts ; 3. Tin, 8.33 
parts ; lead, 8.34 parts ; bismuth, 8.33 parts ; mercury, 75 parts ; 
4. (For spherical mirrors') Bismuth, 80 parts ; mercury, 26 parts. 

Refli jtor Metal.— 1. (Dupplei'8)7AnQ, 20 parts ; silver, 80 parts ; 
2. Copper, 66.22 parts ; tin, 33.11 parts ; arsenic, 0.67 parts ; 3. 
{Cooper's) Copper, 57.86 parts; tin, 27.28 parts; zinc, 3.30 parts; 
arsenic, 1.65 parts; platinum, 9.91 parts ; 4. Copper, 64 parts; tin, 
32.00 parts; arsenic, 4.00 parts; 5. Copper, 82.18 parts; lead, 9.22 
parts ; antimony, 8.60 parts ; 6. {Littles) Copper, 69.01 parts ; tin, 
30.82 parts ; zinc, 2.44 parts ; arsenic, 1.83 parts. 

Metal for Gilt Wares.- 1. Copper, 78.47 parts ; tin, 2.8 7 parts; 
zinc, 17.23 parts; lead, 1.43 parts; 2. Copper, 64.43 parts; tin, 
0.25 parts; zinc, 32.44 parts; lead, 2.86 parts; 3. Copper, 72.43 
parts ; tin, 1.87 parts ; zinc, 22.75 parts ; lead, 2.96 parts ; 4. Cop- 
per, 70.90 parts ; tin, 2.00 parts ; zinc, 24.05 parts ; lead, 3.05. 

Spurious Silver Leaf. — Tin, 90.09 parts ; zinc, 9.91 parts. 

Shot Metal.- 1. Lead,iJ7.06 parts ; arsenic, 2.93 parts; 2. Lead, 
99.60 parts ; arsenic, 0.40 parts. 

Bismuth Solder.- Tin, 33.33 parts ; lead, 33.33 parts ; bismuth 
33.34 parts. 

Glaziers' Solder. — Tin, 3 parts ; lead, 1 part. 

Amaloam for Electrical Machines. — 1. Tin, 25 parts; zinc, 
25 parts ; mercury, 50 parts. 2. Tin, 11.11 parts ; zinc, 22.22 parts ; 
mercury, 66.67 parts. 

Type Metal. — 1. For smallest and most brittle types. — Lead, 3 
parts ; antimony, 1 part. 2. For small, hard, brittle types. — Lead, 4 
parts ; antimony, 1 part. 3. For types of medium size.— Lead, 5 
parts; antimony, 1 part. 4. For large types. — ^Lead,6 parts; anti- 
mony, 1 part. 5. JFor largest and softest types. — Lead, 7 parts ; 
antimony, 1 part. In addition to lead and antimony, type metal 
also contains 4 to 8 per cent, of tin, and sometimes 1 to 2 per ceut. 
of copper. Stereotype plates are made of lead, 20 parts ; anti« 
mony, 4 parte; tin, 1 part. 

Brass for Wire. — Copper, 34 parts ; calamine, 56 parts : mi^r, 

Britannia Metal.— 1. Tin, 82 parts ; lead, 18 parts ; brast,, 5 
parts ; antimony, 5 parts ; mix. 2. Brass, 1 part : antimony, 4 
parts ; tin, 20 parts : mix. 3. Plate-brass, tin, bismuth, and anti- 
mony, of each equal parts. Add this mixture to melted tin until 
it acquires the proper color and hardness. 

BrOnze.— 1. Copper, 83 parts ; zinc, 11 parts ; tin, 4 parts ; lead, 
2 parts; mix. 2. Copper, 14 parts; melt, and add zinc, 6 parts; 
tin. 4 parts ; mix. 

Ancient Bronze.- Copper, 100 parts ; lead and tin, each, 7 
parts: mix. 

Alloy for Bronze Ornaments.— Copper, 82 parts; zinc, 18 
parts ; tin, 3 parts ; lead, 3 parts ; mix. 

Beautiful Kbd Bronze Powder. — Sulphate of copper, 100 parts; 
carbonate of soda, 60 parts : apply heat until they unite into a mass ; 



ler, 88.63 parts; 

.—Copper, 90.06 

lury, 30 parts ; 2. 
arts ; 3. Tin, 8.33 
jrcury, 75 parts; 
rcury, 26 parts. 
I ; silver, 80 parts; 
iC, 0.67 parts ; 3. 
, zinc, 3.30 parts ; 
per, 64 parts ; tin, 
I parts; lead, 9.22 
', 69.01 parts ; tin, 

ts; tin, 2.87 parts; 
64.43 parts; tin, 
3. Copper, 72.43 
96 parts ; 4. Cop- 
8 ; lead, 3.06. 
, 9.91 parts. 
)3 parts ; 2. Lead, 

13 parts ; bismuth 



1, 25 parts; zinc, 
, zinc, 22.22 parts ; 

le types. — Lead, 3 
le types. — Lead, 4 
im a?2re.— Lead, 5 
a,d, 6 parts ; anti- 
— Lead, 7 parts; 
nony, type metal 
es 1 to 2 per cent. 
i, 20 parts ; anti- 

56 parts : mix. 
8 parts; bras^,, 5 
art: antimony, 4 
smuth, and anti- 

melted tin until 

in, 4 parts ; lead, 
d zinc, 6 parts; 

I and tin, each, 7 

parts; zinc, 18 

)pper, 100 parts ; 
Lnite into a mass; 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &(j,, RECEIPTS. 193 

tlien cool, and add copper filings, 15 parts. Well mix, and keep 
them at a white heat for 20 minutes ; then cool, powder, wash, 
and dry. 

Bronzing Fluid for Guns.— Nitric acid, sp. gr. 1. 2 par*-^ ; nitric 
ether, alcohol, muriate of iron, each I part : mix, then add .^ulphatc 
of copper, 2 parts, dissolved in water, 10 parts. 
Cannon Metal. — Take tin, 10 parts ; copper, 90 parts : melt. 
Statuary Bronze. — 1. Copper, 88 parts; tin, 9 parts; zinc, 2 
parts; lead, 1 part. 2. Copper, 82^ parts; tin, 5 parts; zinc, 10^ 
parts; lead, 2 parts. 3. Copper, 90 parts; tin, 9 parts; lead, 1 
part. 

Bronzb, for Medals.— Copper, 89 parts ; tin, 8 parts ; zinc, 3 
parts. 

Brass, for Heavy Work.— Copper, 100 parts ; tin^ 15 parte, 
zinc, 15 parts. Another, — Copper, 112 parts ; tin, 13 ; zinc, 1. 
Brass, for Tubes. — Copper, 2 parts ; zinc, 1 part. 
Alloy, for Cymbals.— Copper, 80 ; tin, 20. 
Mirrors of Reflecting Telescopes.— Copper, 100 ; tin, 50. 
White Argent an. — Copper^ 8 parts ; nickel, 3 parts ; zinc, 35 
parts. This beautiful composition is in imitation of silver. 

Chinese Silver.— Silver, 2.5 ; eopper, 65.24 ; zinc, 19.52 ; cobalt 
of iron, 0.12 ; nickel, 13. 
TuTENAG. — Copper, 8 ; nickel, 3 ; zinc, 5. 
Printing Charaotbrs.-I. Lead, 4; antimony, 2. 2. For stereo- 
type plates, lead, 25 parts ; antimony, 4 parts ; tin, 1 part. 

Fine Whith German Silver.- 1. For Castings. Lead, 3 parts; 
nickel, 20 parts; zinc, 20 partE; copper, 60 parts: mix. 2. For 
Rolling. Nickel, 6 parts ; zinc, 4 parts ; copper, 12 parts : mix. 

Imitation Platinum.— Melt together 8 parts brass and 5 parts of 
zuic. This alloy very closely resembles platinum. 

Imitation Gold.— Platina, 8 parts ; silver, 4 parts ; copper, 12 
parts : melt all together. 

Imitation Silver.— Block-tin, 100 parts ; antimony, 8 parts ; bis- 
muth, 1 part ; copper, 4 parts : melt all together. 

ToMBAO, OK Bed Brass. — Melt together 8 parts of copper and 1 
part of zinc. 

Parisian Bell-Metal.- Copper, 72 parts ; tin, 26J parts ; iron, 
l^ parts. Used for the bells of small ornamental clocks. 

Bell-Mbtal. — 1. Copper, 25 parts ; tin, 5 parts : mix. 2. Cop- 
per, 79 parts ; tin, 26 parts : mix. 3. Copper, 78 parts ; tin, 22 
parts : mix. 

Prince's Metal.— 1. Copper, 3 parts ; zinc, 1 part. 2. Brass, 8 
parts ; zinc, 1 part. 3. Zinc and copper, equal parts : mix. 

Queen's Metal. — 1. Lead, 1 part; bismuth, 1 part; antimony, 1 
part, ; tin, 9 parts : mix. 2. Tin, 9 parts ; bismuth, 1 part; lead, 2 
parts ; antimony, 1 part : mix bv melting. 
Brass. — Copper, 3 parts : melt, then add zinc, 1 part. 
Button-Makers' Fine Brass. — Brass, 8 parts ; zinc, 5 parts. 
Button-Makers' Common Brass.— Button brass, 6 parts ; tin, 1 
part ; lead, 1 part : mix. 

Organ Pipes consist of lead alloyed with about half its quantity 
of tin to harden it. The mottled or crystalline appearance so 
much admired shows an abundance of tin. 



'S 1 ( il .• 



'W' 






1§4 MACHINISTS, EKOINSEitS, &0., ftEOEli»tS; 

BiRbM WBTTmsT«&TB Pamkt Shiathino for phipi consfsts of 
lead, vritii from 2 tb 8 pc^r cent of ftiitlmony; about 3 p6r cent, is 
the usual quautitj. The alloy is roUecl into sheets. 

LiAD SttoT are cast by letting the metal run tbrou^h a narrow 
slit iiito a t^eci^s of colander at the top of a lofty tower; the 
metal ^citpe^ i^ dropd, Which, for the most part, assume the 
spherical fbrEti befoire they reach thei tank of water into which they 
fall at the foot df the tower, aind this prerents their being bruised. 
They arfe afterwanJiJ riddled or lifted lot sizd, and afterwards 
cfaflrhed in a; bkrriel with black kad. 

MsTAi* 70B Anatomical iNJEOTioNS.-Tin, 16.41 parts ; lead, 9.2? 
patm) biSfiitith, 27.£il parts; mercury, 46.41 parts, 

YdiiLow Dippino Mbtal.— Goiter. 32 lbs ; 6 to 7 oz, zinc to 
every lb. of copper. 

Lbad Poplift «re now manufactured by hydraiulic preErstird. instisiid 
of by the old ptbcess 0f drawing out on triblets. 

MuNTzMBTALfoaSBiPs.— Best selected copper, 60 pftrts: best 
zinc, 40 partd. Uelt together in the usual manner, and roll into 
sheets di suitable thickness. This composition resists oxidation 
from •zposore to sea-water, and prerentd th6 adhesion of barna- 
cleil. 

Aom Bronzb.— Cobalt, 4 lbs. ; pidyerize; sift through a fiii^ 
sieve ; put in a stone pot; add ^ gal. nitric acid, & little at a time, 
stirring frequently for 24hpilr8; then add atlout 6 gali^. mtiriaiic 
acid, or, until the work comes out a da^rk brown. 
4'lb^i ^bonzb.— Dissolve 6 ^bs. nitrate of copper iii 3 gals. 



waten witn 6 lbs. pdarladh ; add 1 or 2 pints potiish w'aier j th^u 
from 2 to 3 Ibs^ sal-ammoniac, or, until tn( 



le work comes out 



the required color. 

GoATiN}} D^.— Sulphate of zinc, 8 lbs. j oil of viidol, 6 gals. ; 
aqu^' foriis, f gal. To use, warm up scalding hot. 

To G14BAN AND Polish Brass. — ^Wash w^th alujin b6iled in stirong 
lye, in the proportion of an ounce to a pint ; afterwardd rub with 
strong tripol;.. Not to be used on gilt or lacquered work . 

Ormolu Coloring. — Alum, 30 parts ; nitrate of potassa, 30 p^s; 
T^d ochre, 30 parts ; sulphate of zinc, 8 parts ; common salt, 1 p4rt; 
mlphate of iron, 1 part. It is applied with a soft brush. The articles 
are placed over, a clear charcoal fire until the salts, melted and 
dried, assume a brown aspect. They are then suddenly cooled in 
nitric acid water containing S per cent, of hydrochloric acid ; after- 
wards washed in abundance of water and dried in sawdust. 

Quick Brioht Dippino Acid, for Brass which has been OrmO" 
IVBD.—- Sulphuric Acid, 1 gal. ; nitric acid, 1 gal. 

DiPPiKO Acid. — Sulpnunc acid, 12 Iba. ; nitric acid, 1 pint ; nitre, 
4 lbs. ; soot, 2 bandfuls ; brimstone, 2 oz. Pulverize the brinistone, 
and soak it in water an hour. Add the nitric acid last. 

Qood Dipping Acid for Oast Brass. — Sulphuric acid, 1 qt. ; 
niiie, 1 qt. ; water, 1 qt. A little muriatic acid may be added or 
omitted. 

, Ormolu Dippino Aoid, for ShebtBrass.—- Sulphuricacid 2 gals. ; 
nitric a^id, 1 pt, : muriatic acid, 1 pt. ; nitre 12 IbS, Put in the 
muriatic acid last, a little at a time, and stir the mixture with 9 
•tick. 



t)ipp 
rated i 
sulpha 

Ormi 
acid, I 
vitriol, 
an equi 

Top 
oily, b(3 
it in ol( 
finished 



lipi conslstB of 
t 3 per cent, is 

oulfh a narrow 
)fty tower; the 
ft, assume the 
iato-^hichthey 
r being bruised, 
and afterwards 

►arts 5 lead, 9.27 

7 oz, zinc to 
presstite.instiBad 

, 60 pftrts: best 
Br, and roll into 
resists ockidation 
lesion of barna- 

throujgh a fiiie 

1 little at a time, 
6 gal^. muriatic 

ipper iii 3 gals, 
iish Watet } then 
ork comes out 

Vittiol, 5 gals. ; 

[b6iled in stbng 
[rwardd rub With 
[ work . 

iOtas^SOptots; 
ion salt, Ipirt; 
ish. The articles 
ats, melted and 
[denly cooled in 
Oric acid ; af ter- 
l sawdust. 
Ihas bbbn OrMO' 

id, 1 pint ; nitre, 
|e the brimstone, 
1 last. 

Iric acid, 1 qt. ; 
■aay be added or 

trie acid 2 gals.; 
lbs. Put in the 
1 mixture with 8 



MACHINISTS, BNGlNi-ERS, AC, RBOEIPTS, 19S 

Dipping Aom.-^ulphuric acid, 4 gals ; nitric acid, 2 gals ; satu- 
rated solution of sulphate of iron (copperaa), 1 pint; solution of 
sulphate of copper, 1 qt. 

Ormolu Dipping Acid, for Shsbt or Oast Brass. — Sulphuric 
acid, I gal. ; sal ammoniac, 1 oz. , sulphur (in flour), 1 oz. : blue 
vitriol, 1 oz. ; saturated solution of zinc in nitric acid, mixed with 
an equal quantity of sulphuric acid, 1 gal. 

To Prbparb Brass Work for Ormolu Dipping.-- If the work is 
oily, boil it in lye ; and if it is finished work, filed or turned, dip 
it in old acid, and it is then ready to be ormolued ; but if it is un- 
finished, and free from oil, pickle it in strong sulphuric acid, dip in 
pure nitric acid, and then in the old acid, after which it will be 
ready for ormoluinff. 

To Repair Old Nitric Aom Ormolu Dips.— If the work after 
dipping appears coarse and spotted, add vitriol till it answers the 
purpose. If the work after dipping appears too smooth, add muri- 
atic acid and nitre ttU it gives the right appearance. 

The other ormolu dips should m repaired according to the 
receipts, putting in the proper ingredients to strengthen them. 
They should not be allowed to settle, but should be stirred often 
while using. 

Tinning Aom, for Brass or Zinc— Muriatic acid, 1 qt. ; zinc, 6 
02. To a solution of this, add water, 1 qt. ; sal-ammoniac, 2 oz. 
Yinkgar Bronzb, for Brass. — Yinegarj 10 gals. ; blue vitriol, 3 
lbs. ; muriatic acid, 3 lbs. ; corrosiv* sublimate, 4 grs. ; sal-ammo- 
niac, 2 lbs. ; alum, 8 oz. 

Direotions for making Laoqubr.— Mix the ingredients, and let 
the vessel containing them stand in the sun, or in a place slightly 
warmed, three or four days, shaking it frequently till the gum is 
dissolved, after which let it settle from twenty-four to forty-eight 
hours, when the clear liquor may be poured oflF for use Pul- 
verized glass is sometimes used, in making lacquer, to carry down 
ttie impurities. 

Laoqubr for Dipped Brass. — Alcohol, proof specific gravity not 
less than 95-lOOths, 2 gals. ; seed lac, 1 lb.; gum copal, 1 oz. ; 
English saffron, 1 oz. ; annotto, 1 oz. 

Laoqubr for Bronzed Brass. — To one pint of the above lacquer, 
add gamboge, 1 oz. ; and, after mixing it, add an equal quantity of 
the first lacquer. 

Deep Gold-colored Laoqubr. — Best alcohol, 40 oz. ; Spanish 
Annotto, 8 grs. ; turmeric, 2 drs. ; shellac, i oz. ; red sanders, 12 
grs. ; when dissolved, add spirits of turpentine, 30 drops. 

Deep Gold-colored Laoqubr for Brass not Dipped. — Alcohol, 
4 gals. ; turmeric, 3 lbs. ; gamboge, 3 oz. ; gum sanderach, 7 lbs. ; 
shellac, I^ lbs. ; turpentine varnish, 1 pint. 

GoLD-ooLORBD Laoqubr, FOR DiPPED Brass. — Alcohol, 36 OZ. ; 
seed lac, 6 oz. ; amber, 2 oz. ; gum gutta, 2 oz, ; red sandal wood, 
24 grs. ; dragon's blood, 60 gr^. ; oriental saffron, 36 grs. ; pulve-- 
rized glass, 4 oz. 

Gold Lacquer, for Brass. — Seed lac, 6 oz. ; amber or copal, 2 
oz. ; best alcohol, 4 gals. ; pulverized glass, 4 oz. ; dragon's 
blood, 40 grs. ; extract of red sandal wood obtained by water, 30 
grs. 






"I 






i ' 15 


i ' "^ 


1 P^ 


m%\i 



196 MACHINISTS, BNOINEEBS, &0.. RECEIPTS. 



. Lacqdkr for Dipped Brass. — Alfohol, 12 gals. ; seed lac, 8 lbs. ; 
turmeric, 1 lb. to a gallon of the aooTe mixture ; Spanish safifk-on, 4 
oz. The saffron is to be added for bronze work. 

Good Laoqubr. — Alcohol, 8 oz. ; gamboge, 1 oz. ; shellac, 3 oz. ; 
annotto, 1 oz. ; solution of 3 oz. of seed lac in 1 pint of alcohol ; 
when dissolved, add i oz. Venice turpentine, i oz. dragon's blood, 
will make it dark ; keep it la a warm place four or five days. 

To Bronzi Iron Castinqs.— Cleanse thoroughly, and afterwards 
immerse in a solution of sulphate of copper, when the castings will 
acquire a coat of th^ latter metal. They must be then washed in 
water. 

Antique Bronzb Paint.— Sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; cream tartar, 3 
oz. ; common salt, 6 oz. Dissolve in 1 pint hot water, then add 
2 oz. of nitrate of copper dissolved in J pint water, mix well, and 
apply it repeatedly to the article, in a damp situation, with a 
brush. 

GiLDBRs PiOKLB. — Alum and common salt, each^ 1 oz. ; nitre, 2 
oz. ; dissolved in water. J pt. Used to impart a rich yellow color 
to gold surfaces. It is best used largely diluted with water. 

To Silver Ivory. — Pound a small piece of nitrate of silver in a 
mortar, add soft water to it, mix them well together, and keep in 
vial for use. When you wish to silver anv article, immerse it in 
this solution, let it remain till it turns of a deep yellow ; then place 
it in clear water, and expose it to the rays of the sun. If you wish 
to depicture a figure, name, or cipher, on vour ivory, dip a camel's- 
hair pencil in the solution, and draw tne subject on the ivory. 
After it has turned a deep yellow, wach it well with water, and 
pla< e it in the sunshine, occasionally wetting it with pure water. 
In a short time it will turn of a deep black^color, which, if well 
rubbed, will change to a brilliant silver. 

Pale Lacquer for Tin Plate. — Best alcohol, 8 oz. ; turmeric, 4 
drs. : hay saffron, 2 scs. ; dragon blood, 4 scs. ; red sanders, I sc. ; 
shellac, 1 oz. ; gum sanderach, 2 drs. ; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; 
Canada balsam, 2 drs. ; when dissolved, add spirits of turpentine, 
80 drops. 

Red Lacquer for Brass. — Alcohol, 8 gals. ; dragon's blood, 4 
lbs. ; Spanish annotto, 12 lbs. ; gum sanderach, 13 lbs. ; turpentine, 
Igal. 

Pale Lacquer, for Brass.— Alcohol, 2 gals. ; Cape aloes, cut 
small, 3 oz. ; pale shellac, 1 lb. ; gamboge. 1 oz. 

Blub Bronze on Copper. — Clean and polish well, then cover the 
surface with a fluid obtained by dissolving vermilion in a warm 
solution of sulphide of sodium, to which some caustic potassa haa 
been added. 

Application of Bronze Powders.— The proper way is to varnish 
the article and then dust the bronze powder over it, after the 
varnish is partially dried . 

Bronze Dip. — Sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; salt of sorrel (binoxolate of 
potash), i oz^ dissolved in vinegar. 

; common salt, I 
English quart of 
vinegar. A good result will be obtained by adding ji oz. of sal- 
ammoniac, instead of the spirits of hartshorn. The piece of metal 



Parisian Bronze Dip. — Sal-ammoniac, i oz 
oz. ; spirits of hartshorn, 1 oz. dissolved in an 



EIPTS. 

seed lac, 8 lbs. ; 
)aui3h saffton, 4 

; shellac, 3 oz. ; 
pint of alcohol ; 
, dragon's blood, 
r five days. 
, and afterwards 
the castinffs will 
I then washed in 

; cream tartar, 3 
water, then add 
er, mix well, and 
Bituation, with a 

h, 1 oz. ; nitre, 2 
rich yellow color 
with water, 
ite of silver in a 
ther, and keep id 
jle, immerse it in 
ellow; then place 
sun. If you wish 
3ry, dip a camel' 8- 
eot on the ivory, 
with water, and 
with pure water. 
»r, which, if well 

oz. ; turmeric, 4 
sd Sanders, 1 sc. ; 

mastic, 2 drs. ; 
its of turpentine, 

iragon's blood, 4 
fibs.; turpentine, 

Cape aloes, cut 

ll, then cover the 
Lilian in a warm 
lustic potassa has 

ray is to varnish 
Lver it, after the 

^el (binoxolate of 

I common salt, \ 
English quart of 
fling i oz. of sal- 
Le piece of metal 



MACHINISTS, ENQTNEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



197 



being well clenned ia to bo nibbed with one of these solutions, then 
dried by friction with a fresh brush. 

Bkst Lacquer, for Bka88.— Alcohol, 4 gals. ; shellac, 2 lbs. ; 
'amber pum, 1 lb. ; copal, JO oz. ; seed luc, 3 lbs. ; saffron, to color; 
pulverized glass, 8 oz. 

Color for Lacqubr. — Aleahol, 1 qt. ; annotto, 4 oz. 

Green Bhqnzb Dip. — Wine Tinegar, 2 qts. ; vprditer green, 2 oz. ; 
ril-ammonlac, 1 ©z. , salt 2 oa. ; alum, J oz. ; French berries, 8oz. ; 
boil the ingredients together. 

Aqua fortis Bronze Dip — Nitric acid, 8 oz. ; muriatic acid, I 
qt. ; sal-ammoniac, 2 oz. ; alum, 1 oz. ; salt, 2 oz. 

Olive Bronze Dip, for Brass. — Nitric acid, 3 oz. ; muriatic acid. 
2 oz. ; add titanium or palladium, when the metal is dissolved, add 
2 gals, pure soft water to each pint of the solution. 

Brown Bronze Paint, for Copper Vessels —Tincture of steel, 4 
oz. ; spirits of nitre, 4 oz. ; essence of "lendi, 4 oz. ; blue vitriol, 1 
oz. ; water, i pint. Mi.x in a bottle ; apply it with a fine brush, the 
vessei being full of boiling water ; varnish after the application of 
the bronze. 

Bronze for all kinds op Metal. — Muriate of ammonia (sal-am- 
moniac), 4 drs. ; oxalic acid, 1 dr. ; vinegar, 1 pint. Dissolve the 
OKalic acid first; ; let the work be clean ; put on the bronze with 
a brush, repeating the operation as many times as may be neces- 
rnry. • 

Bronze Paint, for Iron or Brass. — Chrome green, 2 lbs. ; ivory 
black, 1 oz. ; chrome yellow, 1 oz. ; good japan, 1 gill ; grind all 
<iDgether, and mix with linseed oil. 

Green Bronze. — Dissolve 2 oz. nitrate of iron, and 2 oz. hype- « 
f3UlphiteJof soda, in 1 pt. water. Immerse the article until the 
required shade is obtained, as almost any shade from brown to red 
can be obtained, according to the time of immersion, then well 
Vrash with water, dry and brush. 

Pale Deep Olive Green Bronze. — Perchloride of iron, 1 part ; 
•»i'ater, 2 parts ; mix, and immerse the brass. 

Dark Green. — Saturate nitric acid with copper, and immerse 
the brass. 

Dead Black on Brasswork. — Rub the surface first with tripoli ; 
then wash it with a solution of 1 part neutral nitrate of tin, with 2 
parts chloride of gold ; after 10 minutes wipe it off with a wet cloth. 

Removing Zinc and Iron from Plumbers' Solder. — Digest the 
metal in grains in diluted sulphuric acid. The acid will dissolve 
the zinc first, the iron next, and all traces of these metals by sub- 
sequent washing. 

Tinning Cast Iron. — Pickle your castings in oil of vitriol ; then 
cover or immerse them in muriate of zinc (made by putting a suffi- 
cient quantity of zinc in some spirit of salt) : after which dip it in 
«> melted bath of tin or solder. 

Silvering by Heat. — Dissolve 1 oz. silver in nitric acid; add a 
small quantity of salt ; then wash it and add sal-ammoniac, or 6 
cz. of salt and white vitriol ; al. > ^ oz. corrosive sublimate ; rub 
them together till they form a paste ;{ rub j€ie^ piece which is to be 
silvered with the paste ; heat it tillthe silver runs,^after which dip 
it in a weak vitriol pickle to clean'it. ^•'•'•■* '•■"■ . -. , ,; 



198 MAORINISTS, ENOL\E£RS, AC, RECEtPTdi 

To Tin Coppbr and Brass.— Boil 6 lbs. cream of tartar and i 
gala, of water and 8 lbs of grain tin or tin shavings. After the 
material has boiled a sufficient time, the articles to be tinned are 
put therein and the boiling continuea, when the tin is precipitated 
on the goods in metallic form. 

MixTCRB FOB Silvering.— Dissolve 2 oz. of silver with 3 grs. of 
corrosive sublimate ; add tartaric acid, 4 lbs. ; salt, 8 qts. 

To Srparatb SUlvsr from Copper. — Mix sulphuric acid, 1 part: 
nitric acid, 1 part ; water, 1 part ; boil the metal in the mixture till 
it is dissolved, throw in a little salt to cause the silver to subdide. 

To Write in Silver.- Mix 1 oz. of the finest pewter or block tin. 
and 2 oz- of quiclcsilver together till both become fluid, then grind 
it with gum water, and write with it. The writing will then look 
as if done with silver. 

Best Bronze for Brass. — Take 1 lb. muriatic acid, and ^ lb. 
white arsenic. Put them into an earthen vessel, and tuen proceed 
in the usual manner. 

Another Bronze for Brass-— One ounce muriate of ammonia, i 
oz. alum, i oz. arsenic, dissolved altogether in 1 pt. of strong 
vinegat. 

Zincing. — Copper and brass vessels may be covered with a firmly 
adherent layer of pure zinc by boiling them in contact with a solu- 
tion of chloride of zinc, pure zinc turnings being at the same time 
present in considerable excess. 

Clouding Metal Work. — Metal work may be clouded by putting 
a piece of tine emery paper under the thumb or finger, and work- 
ing it over the surface of the metal with i spiral motion. 
. CaiMBNT FOR Belting. Waterproof. — Dissolve gutta percha in 
bisulphide of carbon to the consistence of molasses, slice down 
and vain the ends to be united, warm the parts, and apply the 
coment, then hammer lightly on a smooth anvil, or submit the 
parts to heavy pressure. 

To Prevent Incrustation in Boilers. — 1. Charcoal has a great 
affinity for any thing that causes scale or incrustation in boilers. 
That made from hard wood is the best, broken in lumps of i to i 
inch in size, and the dust sifted out. Two bushels of this will 
generally protect a boiler of 30 horse power for 3 weeks, when 
running, after which the old coal should be removed and fresh coal 
used. 2. Throw into the tank or reservoir from which youD boiler 
is fed^ a quantity of rough bark, in the piece, such as tanners use, 
sufficient to turn the water of a brown color; if you have no tank, 
put into the boiler from a half to a bushel of ground bark when 
you blow off, repeat everv month, using only half the quantity 
after the first time. 3. Add a very small quantity of muriate of 
ammonia, about 1 lb. for every 1,500 or 2,000 gals, of water evapo- 
rated. It will have the effect of softening and disintegrating the 
carbonate of lime and other impurities deposited by the water dur- 
ing evaporation. 4. Potatoes and some othe* vegetable substances 
introduced into the boiler are most effectual in preventin^j incrus- 
tation, and animal substances such as refuse skins, are still more 
so. 6. An English firm put oak sawdust into their boiler in order 
to stop a leak, and to their surprise it also resulted in preventing 
incrustation. I should say if oak sawdust could prevent scale ia 



if tartar and 4 

igs. After the 

be tinned are 

is precipitated 

r with 3 grs. of 
8 qta. 

ic acid, 1 part; 
the mixture till 
ver to Bubaide. 
ter or block tin. 
luid, then grind 
. will then look 

acid, and J lb. 
ud tnen proceed 

(e of ammonia, i 
1 pt. of strong 

red with a firmly 
itact with a solu- 
it the same time 

)uded by putting 
inger, and work- 
motion. 

jutta percha in 
isses, slice down 
3, and apply the 
., or submit the 

;coal has a great 
Itation in boilers. 
k lumps of i to i 
[hels of this will 
• 3 weeks, when 
jd and fresh coal 
rhich youD boiler 
1 as tanners use, 
|ju have no tank, 
lound bark when 
ilf the quantity 
ity of muriate of 
. of water evapo- 
lisintegrating tbe 
W the water dur- 
table substances 
[eventing incrus- 
h8, are still more 
ir boiler in order 
ed in preventing 
' prevent scale in 



MAOUINISTS, SNaiNElBS, *0,, RIOIIPTS. 199 

bnH'^rfl, thftt there \n no visible »«ft8on why hemlock and various 
• I ■ .ii !) <-r siiwilufit Will not do the same thing 6. Cu^va feet 
\' ' li »Mitui\,i lutaclied are Bti'tiiigly recop mended as a ifroven" 
lu. > v; . Bculf. Two ill a lartre boiler is amply sufficient, and those 
wi,o wish A) d.) busiiifsi economicuUy, can get their oil for lubri- 
caiiiiif purjiost's cheaply by foiling the feet and shanks for a few 
hours in largo ktitle. setling it asi<le to cool and then skimming 
off the oil from the surrace of the water, using the feet for the boiler 
afterwards. If you wish to get rid of th^* Ir ir on the shanks, you 
can get rid of that by using lime, &c., as done by tanners. 

MANAGKMiiiNT ov THE 8tbam Enqinb. — Steam Packino. — To pack 
the cylinder or piston, plait some packing yarn sufficiently tight that 
it will need driving ; if cotton rope is convenient, put in a coil first, 
driving it to fit tight ; then fill the remainder of the chamber of the 
piston with the plaited yarn, driving it tight and full, leaving 
room for the nuts to go on the bolts ; screw the nuts evenly and 
alike until they are fast. The packing should be well soaked in 
bees wax and tallow before using it. A new kind of packing has 
been brought out lately, consisting of a mixture of duck, paper and 
tallow mixed in proper proportions. Metallic vulcanized rubber 
packing is strongly recommended aa the best packing. This is so 
prepared that 300® Fahrenheit will not aflFect it. No other subs- 
tance has so much elasticity which stands so high a degree of heat, 
or which may be used about all parts of the machinery, as this 
packing, where packing is nee. ssary, namely : cylinder heads, 
man hole plates, piston rods, steam chests, steam joints, stuffing 
boxes, &c. The journals of thei crank and the T head require close 
watching; if thev are loose in the boxes, or too tight, they will run 
badly : thus, if tightened too much, they will heat and wear out 
the brass runners, if they are not sufficiently tight, there is danger 
of the keys flying out and breaking the engine. All the valves 
belonging to theeng ne thculd be ground in with emery, to keep 
them from losing either steam or water. Care should be taken 
of them as they v/ill wear. When you find them leak, they should 
be ground over again. If suffered to remain long when leaking 
steam, there may be new ones required. 

The boilers require to be often cleaned out, and care should be 
taken to remove the scales and mud from adhering to the inside, 
otherwise, if the scales are suffered to remain, the boiler will burn 
«ind want repairing. It is necessary to try the gauge-cock often, 
to see if there is sufficient water in the boilers. There is great 
danger in running after the water is below the lowermost gauge- 
cock, and the flues should be kept cleanly swept. 

To Mend Rioken Saws. — Pure silver, 19 parts ; pure copper, 1 
part; pure brass, 2 parts; all to be filed into powder, and tho- 
roughly mixed ; place the saw level on the anvil, broken edges in 
contact, and hold them bo ; now put a small line of the mixture 
along tne seam, covering it with a larger bulk of powdered char- 
coal ; now with a spirit lamp and a jewellers' blow-pipe, hold the 
coal dnst in place, and blow sufficient to melt the solder mixture ; 
then with a hammer set the joint smooth, and file away any su- 
perfluous solder, and you will be surprised at its strength t^f) 
heat will not injure the temper ot the saw. 



IN 






1 



i{ 




It' Ttlr ;■ 

.-- i -' It 'i 

'■■ if 



V' If.' 



1 



I 



I 



200 MACUINISTH, ENQINEER8, AG., HEOEIPTB. 

Writwo Inscriptions on Mktalb. — Take ^ lb. of nitric acid and 
1 oz. of muriatic acid. Mix. shako well tojfcther, and It is ready 
for use. Cover the place you wish to mark with melted bees-wax ; 
when cold, write your inscription plainly in tho wa.v clear to the 
metal with a sharp instrument ; then aj)ply the mixed acids with 
a feather, carefully filling each letter. Let it remain from 1 to 10 
minutes, according to appearance desired ; then throw on water, 
which stops tho process, and remove the wax. 

Etching Fluids. — For copfirr. Aquafortis, 2 oz. ; water, 5 ob. 
For steel. Iodine, 1 oz. ; iron filings, I dr. ; water, 4 oz. Digest till 
the iron is dissolved. For fine touches. Dissolve 4 j)arts each of 
verdigris, sea salt, and sal-ammoniac, in 8 parts vinegar, add 16 
parts water ; boil for a minute, and let it cool. 

Enokaveus' Hf)UDER Wax. — Bces wax, 1 part ; pitch, 2 parts ; tal- 
low, 1 part. Mix. Fngravera^ cement. Rosin, 1 part ; brick dust, 1 
part. Mix with heat. 

Japanners' Gold Sizh. — Gum ammoniac, 1 lb. ; boiled oil. 8 oz. ; 
spirits turi^entine, 12 oz. Melt the gum, then add the oil, and lastly 
s|)irits tu^entine. 

Black Varnish for Iron Work. — Asphaltum, 1 lb. ; lamp- 
black, i lb. ; resin \ lb. ; spirits turpentine, 1 qu.irt ; linseed «il, just 
sufficient to rub up the lampblack with before mixing it with the 
others. Apply with a camel's hair brush. 

To Pbtrifv Wood. — Gem salt, rock alum, white vinegar, chalk 
and pebbles powder, of each an equal quantity. Mix well together. 
If, after the ebullition is over, you throw into this liquid any 
wood or porous substance, it will petrify it. 

The Finest Bronze. — Put in a clean crucible 7 lbs. copper, 
melt, then add 3 lbs. zinc, afterward 2 lbs tin. 

Gearing a Lathe for Screw Cutting. — Every screw cutting 
lathe contains a long screw called the lead screw, which feeds tho 
carriage of the lathe, while cutting screws ; upon the end of this 
screw is placed a gear, to which is transmitted motion from 
another gear placed on the end of tho spindle, these gears each 
contain a different number of teeth, for the purpose of cutting 
different threads, and the threads are cut a certain number to tho 
inch varying from 1 to 50. Therefore to f.nd the proper gears to 
cut a certain number of threads to the inch, you will first: — 
multiply the number of threads you desire to cut to the inch, by 
any small number, four for instawce, and this will give you the 
proper gear to put on the lead screw. Then with the same num- 
ber, four, miiltiply the number of threads to the inch in the lead 
screw, and {his will give you the proper gear to put on tho 
spindle. For example, if you want to cut 12 to the i*Bn, multiply 
12 by 4, and it will give you 48. Put this gear on the lead screw, 
then with the same number, 4, multiply the number of threads to 
the inch in the lead screw. If it is five fo; instance, it will give 
you twenty, put this on the spindle and your lathe is geared. If 
the lead screw is 4,- 5, 6, 7, or 8, the same rule holds good. Always 
multiply the number of threads to be cut, first. Some, indeed most 
small lathes, are now made with a stud geared into the spindle, 
whieh stud only runs half as fast as the spindle, and in finding 
the gears for these lathes, you will first multiply the number of 



[•TS. 

itric acid and 
nd It ia ready 
led bees-wax ; 
X clear to tlio 
pd acids with 
I from 1 to 10 
row on water, 

water, 6 oe. 
z. Digest till 

parts each of 
legar, add IG 

, 2 parts ; tal- 
brick dust, 1 

ilod oil. 8 oz. ; 
oil, and lastly 

I lb. ; lamp- 
inseedsil, just 
ng it with the 

vinegar, chalk 
well together, 
jis liquid any 

lbs. copper, 

screw cutting 

hich feeds tho 

le end of this 

motion from 

36 gears each 

86 of cutting 

imber to thu 

poper gears to 

will first: — 

the inch, by 

give you the 

e same num- 

h in the lead 

put on tho 

ncn, multiidy 

e lead screw, 

of threads to 

, it will give 

is geared. If 

ood. Always 

, indeed most 

the spindle, 

d in finding 

e number of 



MACHINISTS, BNOINJjXBS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



!01 



threads to b« cut, ai before, and then multiply the number of 
threads on the lead screw, as aouble the number it is. For instancO" 
if you want to cut 10 to the inch, multiply by 4, and you get 40, 
put this on the lead screw, then if your lead screw is five to the 
mch, you call it 10 ; and multiply by 4 and it will glre you 40. 
Again put this on your stud and your lathe is geared ready to 
commence cutting. 

CoTTiNO A Screw in an Enoinb Latiib.— In cutting V thread- 
screw, it is only necessar^ for you to practice operating the 
shipper and slide-screw handle of your lathe, before cutting. 
After having dono this, until you get the motions, you may set the 
point of the tool as high as the centre, and if you keep the tool 
sharp, you will find no difficulty in cutting screws. You must, 
however, cut very light chips, mere scrapings in finishing ana 
must take it out of the lathe often, and look at it from both sides, 
very carefully, to see that the threads do not lean like fish scales. 
After cutting, polish with an emery stick, and some emery. 

Cutting Square Thread Screws. — In cutting square thread- 
screws, it is always necessary to get the depth required, with a 
tool somewhat thinner than one-half the pitch of the thread. 
After doing this, make another tool exactly one-half the pitch of 
the thread, and use it to finish with, cutting a light chip on each 
side of the groove. After doing this, polish with a pme stick, 
and some emery. Square threads for strength should be cut one- 
half the depth of their pitch, while square threads, for wear, may, 
and should be cut three-fourths the depth of their pitch. 

MoNORBL Threads. — Mongrel, or half V, half-square threads are 
usually made for great wear, and should be cut tne depth of their 
pitch, and for extraordinary wear they may even be cut IJ the 
depth of their pitch. The point and the bottom of the^ grooves 
should be in width ^ the depth of their pitch. What is meant 
here by the point of the thread, is the outside surface. And the 
bottom of the groove is the groove between the threads. In 
cutting tiiese threads it is necessary to use a tool about the shape 
of the thread, and in thickness about one-fifth less than the 
thread is when finished. As it is impossible to cut the whole sur- 
face at once, you will cut it in depth about one-sixteenth at a 
time, then a chip off the sides of the thread and continue in this 
way alternately till you have arrived at the depth required. Make 
a gauge of the size required between the threads and finish by 
scraping with water. It is usually best to leave such screws as 
these a little large until after they are cut, and then turn off a 
light chip, to Size them, this leaves them true and nice. 

Planino Metals. — The first operation about planing, is to oil 
your planer and find out if the bed is smooth. If it is not, file off 
the rough places ; then change the dogs to see if they- will work 
well, and find out the movements of the planer. After doing this, 
bolt your work on to the bed, and if it is a long, thin piece, plane 
off a chip, then turn it over and finish the other side, taking two 
chips, the last of which should be very light. Great care should 
be taken, in bolting it to the bed, not to spring it. After finishing 
this side turn it to the other side, and take off a light cut \q 
liuish it. 






I ,i 



'dfi 



!*F '<J| 



i 



•!i- 



•!' 



ni^! 



202 niAOmmsia, BNaiNZBBs, *o., bioeipts. 



planinff perpendicularly, it 19 
Le Bmall head aiound, so it, will 



PLimif* PBRPiJirb^otJtAftLT.— Iti . 
neeessary t6 8#itel the bbttom of the b 

stand abolit three-fourths of an inch inside of square, toTtarda the 
piece you ai:« to plane. This preventl breaking ih% tool when the 
D6d rund batk. 

GiAR OvTrtitQ:—ln ontting giears, they are reckoned a certain 
number of teeth to the inch, measuring across thd diameter to a 
certain lind which is marked on the ^ce or sides of the gear t^ith 
a tool. Thtd line is on6-half the depth of the teeth from the outer 
diameter. Th4t is, if the teeth of the gear are two-tenths of an 
inch deep, this litte Wdnid be one-tenth of an inch from the edge 
and is called the pitch line. 

DBpVa or TkB'ttt.-^Every g«ar cat with a different nnmber of 
teeth to the inch, should be cut of a depth to the pitch line, to 
correspond with the nuoiiber of teeth to the inch. This is called 
proportioi. ThereJPpre, if you cut a gear eight to the inch, the 
depth td the tiitch line should be one-eighth of an inch, and the 
whcle deptih or the tdbth would be two-eighths. Again, if you cut 
a gea^ twelve to th6 inch, the depth to pitch line should be one- 
tw^elfth of ati inch, ahd the whole depth of tooth two twelfths. 
And again, if yon cut a gear twenty to the inf u, the depth to pitch 
line should be one-twentieth of an inch, while the Ymole oepth 
should be two-twentiethsj and so on ad infinitutn. 

MtfAstjBitNd TO riMD thB NtJitBBa or Tbbth.— To find the size a 
certain gear should be, for a certain number of teeth, is an easy 
matter^ if, you study carefully these rules. If you want a gear 
vrith tnirty-tWo teeth and ei|^ht to the inch, it should be four inches 
inea&iiriili^ across the diameter to the pitch line, and the two- 
eighths outside of the pitch lihe Would make it four inches and 

.f o-eighths. Again, if you wafat a gear with forty teeth, and ten 
to thel inch, it should measure across the diameter to pitch line 
four inches. And. the two-tenths outside the pitch line would make 
ihe wholei aiattieter fdur inches and tWb-tentns. And a^in, if you 
tvant a ^sir With eighty teeth, and twenty to the inch, it should 
ineasut^ to th*a pitch liile, across the diameter, four inches, and the 
two-tii^iiitieths oUtiside the pitch line would make it fbur inches 
and two-tWentleths, and these examples will form a rule for the 
xneasurement of all except bevel gears. 

BavBL QkAKi^.— Th^^e are turned a certain bevel to odirespond 
with each other, acciprding to the an^le upon which the shafts 
driven by them arie ^t. Pot ihstance, if two shafts are set upon 
d.tt ang^e 6f ninety degrees, the surfaces of the faces of these gears 
will stand at an Ah^gle of forty-five degrees. To get' the surface of 
the^e gears, ih turning th^m, puts a straight edge across the face. 
Then set yoUr level on an angle of forty-nve degrees, and try the 
face ot the teeth by placing the level on the straight edgo. Auer 
turning the face of the teeth, square the outer diameter by the face 
of the teeth ; ahd to gtet the si^e to which you wish to cut, measure 
ifrbm the centre of the face of the teeth. Thus, if a bevel gear Ib 
Hbt inches in diameter, and thefkce of the teeth is one inch, you 
will measure from the centra of the face, and find it is five inches. 
On this line you calculate the number of teeth to the inch, and if 
j^ou want a gear with twenty teeth, and ton to the iach, it should 



■ / 



ESIPIB. 

ndicularly, it h 
biound, so U will 
are, to^ drda the 
ht tool wheu the 

ckoned a certain 
16 diameter to a 
of the gear with 
th from the outer 
two-tenths of an 
ih from the edge 

ferent number of 
the pitch line, to 
h. This is called 
to the inch, the 
an inch, and the 
Again, if rou cut 
le should be one- 
oth two twelfths. 
Lhe depth to pitch 
the Y^.ole depth 

ro find the size a 
' teeth, is an easy 
you want a gear 
>uldbe four inches 
le, and the two- 
b four inches and 
'ty teeth, and ten 
eter to pitch line 

line would make 
Anda^in,ifyou 
le inch, it should 

r inches, and the 
^ke it fbur inches 
irm a rule for the 



MACHINISTS, JSNOINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 203 

measure two inches across the face to the centre of the surface of 
the teeth ; and if the face of the teeth were one inch in length, the 
diameter of the gear would be three- inches, and the inside of the 
leeth would measure only one inch. Again, if you want to cut a 
geai with forty teeth, and ten to the inch, it would measure four 
mches to the centre 01 the teeth on the surface. And if the surface 
of the teeth were one inch long, the diameter of the gear would be 
hvc mches, while it would only measure three inches inside the 
teeth. These examples will form a rule for all bevel gears. 

Draw-Filing and Finishing — To draw-file a piece of work 
smoothly and (juickly, it is best to first draw-file it with a medium 
line file, and finish with a superfine file. After doing this, polish 
the work with dry emery paper and then with emery paper and 
oil. 

Lining Boxes with Babbitt Metal.— To line boxes properly, 
80 as to insure their filling every time, it is necessary to heat the 
box nearly red hot, or at least hot enough to melt the metal. Then 
smoke the shaft where the metal is to be poured upon it. This 
insures its coming out of the box easily, after it is cold. After 
smoking the shaft, put it into the box or boxes, and draw some 
putty around the ends of them, for the purpose of stopping them, 
taking care not to press upon it, for if you do it will go into the 
box and fill a place that ought to be filled with metal; and in the 
meantime your metal ought to be heated, and after you have 
poured it, let the bozptand tilt it is nearly cold ; drive out your 
ehaft, and it is done. 

Putting Machines Together.— In putting machines together no 
part should be finished except where ii is necessary to make a fit, 
as it is sometimes the case that machinery is miscalculated, and by 
finishing it would be spoiled, while if it were not, it miffht be saved 
by slight alterations in design. And again, in finishing certain 
parts before you get a machine together, you are unknowingly 
iinishing parts not necessary to be finished, and making them of a 
Bbape anything but desirable. This rule, however, is not intended 
to apply to machinery being made to detail drawings. 

To Drill a' Hole where you have no Rbamsb. — It is some- 
times necessary to drill a hole of an exact size to fit a certain shaft, 
and at the same time have it smooth without reaming it. This 
may be done, by first drilling a hole, one-hundredth of an inch 
smaller than the size desired, and then making a drill the exact 
size and running it through to finish with. This last drill should 
have the corners of its lips rounded, like a reamer, and the hole 
ehould be finished without holding the drill with a rest. 

Squaring, or facing up Cast Iron Surfaces. — A round-end, 
tool is best for this. A rough chip should first be taken off, over 
the entire surface to be faced. Then speed your lathe up and 
taking a hght chip, merely enough to take out the first tool marks, 
run over the entire surface again. In turning up surfaces it is 
always best to begin at the centre and feed out, as the tool cuts 
freer and will wear twice as long. 

Boring a Hole with a Boring Tool.— In boring a hole with a 
boring tool, it is usually necessary to drill the hole first, and too 
much care cannot be taken in finishing. An iron gauge should bQ 



ii 



i 






204 MA0UINI6TS, ENQLNEERS, &0.^ BECJIIFTS. 

made first ; it is usually made of a piece of sheet iron or wire. 
The hole should then be drilled sotaller than the size desired, and 
then bored to the rec[uired size, and it is impossible to bore a hole 
perfect without taking two or three light cbips, mere scrapings 
with which to finish. Holes, m this way, may be bored as nicely 
as they can be reamed. 

BoRiNO Holes WITH Boring Arbor.— A boring arbor is a shaft 
with a steel set in it, for the purpose of boring holes of great 
length, and is designed to be used in a lathe In doing this pro- 
perly, you must first see if your lathe is set straight -, if not, adpMt 
it. Having done this, put the piece of work to be bored in the 
carriage of your lathe, pass your arbor through the hole to be 
bored, and put it on the centres of your lathe Having done this, 
adjust your work true to the position daatred by measuriag from 
the point of the tool, continaally turning round the arbor from 
side to side of the piece to be bored, while you are bolting it to 
the carnage, and measure until it is perfectly true. Having done 
this, bore the hole, and take for the last chip only a hundredth ot 
in inch, This makes a true and smooth hole. It is impossible to 
make a hole true with aay kind of a tool when you are cutting a 
large chip, for the tool springs so that no dependence can be 
placed upon it. 

To Mass a Bobiro Abbo& and Tool that will not Gbattesr.— 
Boring tools, when used in small arbors, are always liable to chat- 
ter and make a rough hole. To prevent this, the tool should be 
turned in a lathe, while in its position in the arbor, upon the circle 
of the size of the hole to be bored, and the bearing lengthwise ot 
the arbor, should be only as wide as the feed of the lathe ; for if 
the bearing of a tool is on the face, the more it will chatter 

To Rbodob MbtAuLio Oxidms.— This may be efibcted by the dry 
and the moist processes ; but the deozidieing agent of the greatest 
value to the metallurgist is coal in its several varieties, and the 
derivative materials yielded by its combustion. When coal is 
burned in a furnace, the product of combustion may be considered 
to be carbonic acid gas ; but inasmuch as the latter is readily 
decomposed by permeating ignited pieces of solid carbon (coke), 
losing a portion of its oxygen, and becoming carbonic acid gas, 
we may say that the products of the combustion of coal are, firstly, 
carbonic acid ; secondly, carbonic oxide and carbonic acid ; and 
lastly^ carbonic oxide alone. The latter, in combination with heat, 
is a most powerful deoxidizing agent. Were it not for the production 
in furnaces of carbonic oxide gas — were it necessary that the solid 
carbon of the coke should be alone the deoxidizing body — then 
it follows that every particle of the ore to be reduced must be 
brought into intimate contact with the reducing body : a procejs 
involving mora care and trouble tban are compatible with large 
metallurgic operations. The reducing agent being a gas, there is 
no longer a necessity for that intimate mixture of fuel and ore 
which wou.d otherwise be necessary. Provided that tbe gaseous 
results of combustion are placed under circumstances of readily 
permeating the ore, the necessities of practice are amply subserved. 
There is great difference as to the amount of heat at which the 
redugtioQ of diffcrcut metallic ojudes can besfifected. The oxides of 



ing 

ahg 

into 



IFTS. 

i iron or wire. 
Ee desired, and 

I to bore a hole 
mere scrapings 
bored as niceljr 

irbor is a shaft 

holes of great 

doing this pro- 

t ; it not, adpMit 

je bored in the 

the hole to be 

iving done this, 

neasunag from 

the arbor from 

re bolting it to 

Having done 

a hundredth ot 

is impossible to 

m are cutting a 

lendence can be 

NOT Chattbb.— 
^g liable to chat- 
tool should be 
r, upon the circle 
,g lengthwise ot 
the lathe; tor if 

II chatter 

Bted by the dry 

at of the greatest 

irieties, and the 

When coal is 

ay be considered 

I latter is readily 

carbon (coke), 

■bonic acid gas, 

coal are, firstly, 

jonic acid; and 

ation with heat, 

T the production 

^ry that the solid 

,iag body— then 

[educed must be 

jody : a procejs 

[ible with large 

^ a gas, there is 

of uiel and ore 

;hat the gaseous 

inces of readily 

[mply subserved. 

it at which the 

id. The oxides of 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, dkO.^ RECEIPTS. 205 

lead, bismuth, antimony, nickel, cobalt, copper, and iron rectnife 
a strong red heat in the furnace, whilst the oxides of manganese, 
chroD 'ium, tin, and zmc, do not lose their oxygen until heated to 
whiteness. 

On a large scale, the reduction of oxides is generally effected by 
mixing charcoal, together with the oxide to be reduced, in a refrac- 
tory clay crucible, the charcoal furnishing the carbon necessary 
to the proper performance of this work. Some use a crucible 
thickly lined with charcoal, putting in the oxide on the top of the 
charcoal. It is necessary, however, when using the crucible and 
charcoal, to use a tlux, say a little boi«x in powder, strewtd on 
the mixture to accelerate the reduction of the oxide. The borax is 
generally the first to fuse, and, as the metal is eliminated, seems 
to purify and cleanse it, as it gathers into a button at the bottom 
of the crucible. It is all the better if you give the crucible a few 
sharp taps when you take it oft the fire. 

Copper Plates or Rods may be covered with a superficial coat- 
ing of brass by exposing to the fumes given off" by melted zinc at 
a light temperature. The coated plates or rods can then be rolled 
into thin sheets, or drawn into wire. 

Solution of Copper or Zilio.— Dissolve 8 oz. (troy) cyanide of 
potassium, and 3 oz. cyanide of copper or zinc, in 1 gal. of rain 
water. To be used at about 160° F., with a compound bartery of 
3 to 12 cells. 

Brass Solution. — Dissolve 1 lb. (troy) cyanide of potassium, 2 
oz. cyanide of copper, and I oz. cyanide of zinc, in 1 gal. of rain- 
water ; then add 2 oz. of muriate of ammonia. To be used at 160® 
F., for smooth work, with a compound battery of from 3 to 12 
cells. 

Bbassino Iron. — Iron ornaments are covered with copper or 
brass, by properly preparing the surface so as to remove all 
organic matter which would nrevent adhesion, and then plunging 
them into melted brass. A thin coating is thus spread over the 
iron, and it admits of being polished or burnished. 

To Enabcbl Cast Iron and Hollow Ware. — 1. Calcined flints, 
6 parts ; Cornish stone or composition, two parts ; litharge, 9 parts; 
Uvax, 6 parts ; argillaceous earth, 1 part : nitre, 1 part ; calx of 
tin, 6 parts ; purified potash, 1 part. 2, Calcined flints, 8 parts ; 
red lead, 8 parts ; borax, 6 parts ; calx of tin, 5 parts ; nitre, 1 part. 
3. Potters' composition, 12 parts ; borax, 8 parts ; white lead^ 10 
parts; nitre, 2 parts; white marble, calcined, 1 part; purified 
potash, 2 parts ; calx of tin, 5 parts. 4. Calcined flints, 4 parts ; 
potters' composition, 1 part; nitre, 2 parts ; borax, 8 parts; white 
marble, calcined, 1 part; argillaceous earth, ^ part; calx of tin, 
2 parts. Whichever of the above compositions is taken must be 
finely powdered, mixed, and fused. The vitreous mass is to be 
ground when cold, sifted, and levigated with water ; it is then 
made into a pap with water, or gum water. The pap is smeared 
or brushed over the interior of the vessel, dried, and fused with a 
proper heat in a muffle. Clean the vessels perfectly before apply- 
ing. 

Enamelled Cast Iron.— Clean and brighten the iron before 
applying. The eiiaiiicl coiuiitei uf two coatd— the bou# and Uia 



P'M 



&t 






f 
I 
II 



•A^ 






1 



I 



I 



i 



I 



206 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C,, RECEIPTS, 

glaze. The body is made by fusing 100 lbs. ground flints, 75 lbs. 
of borax, and grinding 40 lbs. of this frit Avith 5 lbs. of potters' 
clay, in water, till it is brought to the consistence of a pap. A coat 
«f this being applied and dried, but not hard, the glaze-powder is 
sifted over it. This consists of 100 lbs. Cornish stone in fine pow- 
der, 117 lbs. of borax, 35 lbs, of soda ash, 35 lbs. of nitre, 35 lbs. 
of sifted slaked lime, 13 lbs, of white sand, and 50 pounds of pounded 
white glass. These are all fused together ; the frit obtained is 
pulverized. Of this powder, 45 lbs. are mixed with 1 lb. of soda 
ash, in hot water, and, the mixture being dried in a stove, is the 
glaze powder. After sifting this over the body-coat, tlie cast-iron 
tuticle is put into a stove, kept at a temperature of about 212®, 
to dry it hard, after which it is set in a muffle-kiln, to fuse it into 
a glaze. The inside of pipes is enamelled (after being cleaned) by 
pouring the above body composition through them while the pipe 
is being turned around to insure an equal coating ; after the body 
lias become set, the glaze pap is poured iu in like manner. The 
pipe is finally nred in the kiln. 

To Enamel Copper and Other Vessbls. — Flint glasfc, 6 parts ; 
borax, 3 parts ; red lead, 1 part ; oxide of tin, 1 part. Mix all to- 
gether, frit, grind into powder, make into a thin paste with M'ater, 
apply with a brush to tne Surface of the vessels, after scaling by 
heat and cleaning them, repeat with a second or even a tnird coat, 
afterwards dry, and lastly fuse on by heat of an enamelled kiln. 

Emery Wheels for Polishing. — Coarse emery powder is mixed 
with about half its weight of pulverized Stourbrid-ge loam, and a 
little M'ater or other liquid to make a thick paste ; this is pressed 
into a metallic mould by means of a screw-press, and, after being 
thoroughly dried, is baked or burned in a muffle at a temperature 
above a red, pnd below a white heat. This forms an artificial 
emery stone, which cuts very greedily, with very little wear to 
itself. Unequalled for grinding and polishing glass, metals, 
enamels, stones, Ac. 

Holes in Millstones are filled with melted alum, mixing burr 
sand with it. If the hole is large, put some pieces of burr mill 
stones in it first, and pour in melted alum. These pieces of block 
should be cut exactly to fit. There should be t>mall joints, and 
fastened with plaster of Paris. These holes should be cut at least 
4 inches deep ; there is then no danger of their getting loose, 

Fitting a New Back on an Old Millstone. — Block your stone 
up with a block of wood, having its face down until it lies even, 
solid, and perfectly level ; then pick and scrape off all the old 
plaster down to the face blocks, so that none remains but what is in 
the joints of the face blocks ; then wash these blocks, and keep 
them soaked with water. Keep a number of pieces of burr blocks, 
at the same time, soaked with water. Take a pail half filled with 
clean water, and mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of glue water, boiled 
and dissolved ; mix in with your hand plaster ot Paris until it be 
thick enough that it will not run ; and, breaking all the lumps, 

Eour this on the stone, rubbing it in with your hand ; the stone 
eing at the same time damped ; and place small pieces of stone 
all over the joints of the face blocks ; you then, witli more plaster, 
mixed in the same way but more stiff, witJi this and pieces of burr 



:s, ■ 

lints, 75 lbs. 
1. of potters' 
I, pap. A coat 
ce-powder is 
in fine pow- 
litre, 35 lbs. 
3 of pounded 
: obtained is 
1 lb. of soda 
stove, is the 
tlie cast-irou 
about 212®, 
» fuse it into 
r cleaned) by 
rhile the pipe 
fter the body 
lanner. The 

asL, 6 parts ; 
Mix all to- 
3 with M'ater, 
jr scaling by 
1 a third coat, 
nelled kiln, 
yder is mixed 
i loam, and a 
his is pressed 
i, after being 
temperature 
an Artificial 
ittle wear to 
:lass, metals, 

mixing burr 
of burr mill 
eces of block 
1 joints, and 
e cut at least 
g loose, 
k your stone 
1 it lies even, 
all the old 
ut what is in 
s, and keep 
[f burr blocks, 
Vlf filled with 
1 watevj boiled 
bis until it be 
ftl the lumps. 
Id ; the stone 
leces of stone 
1 more plaster, 
Ueccs of burr 



MACHINISTS, ENUIMEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



207 



stones, build walls round the eye and verge 4 or 5 inches high 
leaving the surface uneven and the eye larger, as it will be brought 
to its proper size by the last operation. It is better to build up 
the wall of the running stone round the verge for 3 inches without 
any spalls, so that the holes may be cut in to balance it. If 
you wish to make your stone heavier, you will take small pieces of 
iron, perfectly clean and free from grease, and lay them evenly all 
around ihe stone in the hollow place between the two walls just 
built ; and, with plaster mixed a little thicker than milk, pour in 
under and through all the crevices in the iron until the surf« w is 
nearly level with the two walls. If the stones do not require addi- 
tional weight added, instead of iron, use pieces of stone the same 
way, leaving the surface rough and uneven. Again, as before, 
build walls round the verge of the stone, and round the eye of the 
stone, until they are within 2 inchesof the thickness you want your 
stones to be, the wall round the eye bein£ 2 inches higher than 
that round the verge, and filling the space between the walls with, 
stones ; and, pouring in plaster again, ruake it nearly level with 
the walls, but leaving the surface rough and jagged, to make the 
next plaster adhere well to it. Let it stand until the back is dry 
and perfectlv set, when you raise the s<one upon its edge, and, 
with a trowel, plaster round the edge of the stone neatly, giving it 
a taper of half an inch from the face to the back of the stone. 
When cased round in this way, lay the >ne down on the cock- 
head ; it being in the balance ryne, but uie driver off, then raise 
the spindle, and balance the stone as already directed before 
outting on the remainder of the back. Then have a tin made the 
size of the eye, and to reach from the balance ryne to thq thickness 
you want the stone to be at the eye. This tin should be . exactly 
fitted to its place, and made fast fthen fit a hoop of woo'd or iron 
round the verge, having the upper edge of the thickness from the 
face you want the stone to be at the verge, and equal all round. 
This hoop should be greased ; and, all the cracks round it, and the 
tin in the eye, being stopped, you pour thin plaster (with more glue 
water than in previous operations, to prevent it from setting so 
quickly, and to give time to finish off the back correctly) until it 
be level with the hoop round the verge, and with a straight edge, 
one end resting on the hoop, and the other end resting on the tin 
at the eye ; then, by moving it round, and working the plaster 
with a trowel, make the surface of the back even ana smooth 
between these two points. The hoop is then taken off, and the back 
and edges planed smooth ; then lower the spindle imtil your 
runner lies solid, and put your band or hoop on, it being first made 
nearly red hot, and taking care that it is of sufficient size not to 
require too much driving ; if fitting too tightly, it may loosen the 
back in driving it to its proper place ; it may be cooled gently by 
pouring water on it ; and, when cool, ij, should fit tight. 

Balancing a Millstone. — First, take off the driver, that the 
sione may have full play on the cock-head ; then raise the spindle 
so that there may be voom betweci:" the stones to see the balance. 
Find the heaviest partv.", and near the verge lay on sufficient weight 
1o balance it. Cut a hole in the back of the stone, as deep as you 
can make it and as near the verge as possible tnat_the binding 



20S MAOHINIbTS^ ENQINESRSj StO,, RECEIPTS, 






I 



iron hoop of the stone may keep the lead: in lis place. This 
hole should be wider at the bottom than the top in order to retain 
the lead when the stone is in motion, and into this the melted lead 
should be poured until it brings the stone completely into balance. 
When the lead is cold, cover over with mixed plaster, even with 
the back of the stone. 

CoHPOSiTioN TO Kbbp Millstonbs Clean. — Hot-water, 1 gal.: 
borax, 2 oz. ; washing soda, i lb. and 3 balls of the size of a hazel 
nut each of sal prunel. Mix and apply it to the burrs with a 
scrubbing brush. When grinding garlic wheat it is not necessary 
to take up the burrs at all. It is sufificient to drop through the 
eye of the burr twice per day one of the above described balls of 
sal prunel and that will keep the burrs sharp and clean, enabling 
the miller at all seasons to use the No. 13 bolt, to make finer flour 
and in greater quantity than usual. 

To YuLOANizH India RuBBKtt. — The vulcanizing process patented 
by the late Charles Gcodyear consists in incorporating with the 
rubber from 3 to 10 per cent of sulphur, together with various me- 
tallic oxides, chiefly lead and zinc, the quantity of the latter 
articles being regulated by the degree of elasticity Sec, required in 
the desired article. The goods of one large establishment are vul- 
canized in cylindrical wrought iron steam neaters, over 50 feet long 
and from 5 to 6 feet in diameter. These heaters have doors opening 
on hinges at one end, and through these doors the goods to be vulca- 
nized are introduced on a sort of railway carriage, then, after the 
door is shut, steam is let on, and a temperature of from 260 ^ to 
300 o of heat is kept up for several hours, the degree of heat being 
ascertained by means of thermometers attached ta the heaters. 
The value, solidity, and quality of the goods is much increased by 
keeping the articles under the pressure of metallic moulds or 
sheets while undergoing this process. The whole process requires 
careful manipulation and great experience to conduct it properly. 

To Dbodorizh Rubbbr. — Cover the articles of rubber with char- 
coal dust, place then in an enclosed vessel, tind raise the tempera^ 
ture to 94® Fahr., and let it remain thus for several hours. Remove 
and clean the article from the charcoal dust, and they will be 
found free from all odor. 

Approvrd Friction Matches. — About the best known prepara- 
tion for friction matches consists of gum arable, 16 parts by weight; 
phosphorus, 9 parts j nitre, 14 parts ; peroxyd or manganese, in 
powder, 16 parts. The gum is first made into a mucilage with 
water, then the manganese, then the phosphorus, and the whole is 
heated to about 130 degr. jFah. When the phosphorus is melted 
the nitre is added, and the whole is thoroughly stirred until the 
mass is a uniform paste. The wooden matches prepared first with 
sulphur, are then dipped in this and afterward dried in the air. 
Friction papers, for carrying in the pocket, may be made in the 
same manner, and by adding some gum benzoin to the mucilage 
they will have an agreeable odor when ignited. 

Mill Daics. — When building a dam, you shoula stleot the most 
suitable place. If you can, place it across the stream near a rocky 
bluff, so that the ends of the dam may run into the bluff. This 
will prevent the water running by at tjbe ends of the dam. Build 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEEBS, AC,, RECEIPTS. 209 

your dam very stroag : if tbto ia not done, tbey arc Tsveaking up 
often, causing ruinous expense in money and loss of time. 

Rook Damb are incomparably the best, in use, if there is plenty of 
material at hand for building, and a rock bottom to the stream ; if 
there is not a rock bottom, you should dig a trench in the bottom, 
deep enough, so that the water cannot undermine it. This should 
be the same as if you were building the foundation of a large 
building. The wall to be built should be of a small, circular form, 
so that the back of the circle ^ould be next to the body df water, 
which may by its pressure tighten it. To secure the water from 
leaking through, at the ends of the dam, dig a ditch deeper than 
the bottom of the river ; then fill this with small pieces of rock, 
and {kour in cement. This cement is made of hydr^kulie cement, 
and is made of one part of cement to five parts of pure sand. It 
will effectually stop all crevices. A rock dam^ if well built, will 
be perfectly tight. Use ab large rook aa you Qonveniently can 
move ; building this wall 4 to 6 feet thick, according to the length 
of the dam, witli jam or buttresses every plaice where they are 
needed to strengthen it Make true joints to niese rocks, ospecially 
on the ends so that they may join close together. When you have 
the outside walls laid in cement, for every layer ill 1M middle up 
with pieces of small rock, pouring in your grout, so that there may 
not be a crevice but what is filled. If there ia any crevice or holu 
left open, the water will break tilirough, weaxdng it larger and 
larger. If the stream is wide and large, it ia necessai^ to build 
the diun in ty^o sections, which should be divided by a waste way, 
necessaiy for the waste, or surplus water, to run over to keep the 
head in its proper place or height. Let each section, nes^t to where 
the water is to be run over, be abutments, built to strengthen the 
dam. The last layer of rock, on the top where the waste water 
runs over, should project 5 or 6 inches over the back of the dam, 
go that the water may not undermine it. This last layer should be 
of large rocks and jointed true ; then laid in hydraulic cement, in 
proportion of 1 of cement to 3 of s^ndi. When the dam is built, 
the front should be filled up with coarse gravel or olay ; this iff 
best done with teamS) aa the more it is tramped the more durable 
it becomes. 

Fbam^-Dams. — ^In building a frame-dam commence with a good 
ibundation, laying the first sills in the bottom, of sufficient depth. 
They should be large square timbers that will last in the water 
without rotting. Where there is a soft foundation, the bottom 
should first be made level ; then dig trenches for the mud sills, 
about 7 or 8 feet apart, lengthways of the stream, and 10 or 12 feet 
long. Into these first sills other sills must be framed, and put 
crosswise of the stream, 6 or 8 feet apart, to reach as far across 
the stream as necessary. Then two outside sills should be piled 
down with 2-inch plank driven down to a depth of 4 or 6 feet. If 
this can be done conveniently, they are to be jointed as closely as 
possible. It would be better to line with some stuff 1 inch thick ; 
then with posts their proper length, about 12 or 14 inches square, 
which should be framed into the uppermost sills, in both sides, and 
all the way across the dam, from bank to bank, at a distance of 6 
fwX apart. Then, with braces to each post, to extend two-thirds 



t 



210 MACHINISTS, -JNCINEERS, &C., RECEIPT/3. 

of the length of the post, where thej should be joined together with 
a lock, instead oi ?i mortise and tenon, with an iron bolt of 1 or 1^ 
inches in diameter, going through both, and tightened with a screw 
and nut. When mortises and tenons are used, they often become 
rotten and useless in a few years. These oraces should be set at 
an angle of 50 or 60" with the other end mortised into the mud sill. 
These Draces roquire to bo about 6 to 8 inches, and as long as you 
find necessary ; bein^ covered with dirt, it will not decay for a 
long time, as the air is excluded. These posts should be capped 
from one to tha other, plate fashion. The posts should be lined 
witki 2 or 2^ inch planK on the inside, pinnod to the plank, and 
should, in the middle, be filled in with dirt. 

If tlie stream is large and wide, the dam should be built in two 
sections, which should be divided by a waste-way for the surplus 
water, which should bo in the centre of the dam, and sufficient for 
all the waste-water to run over. Let each section of the dam form 
an abutment next to the waste-way, placing cells or sills 4 feet 
apart the length of the waste-way ; m each of these sills, posts 
enould be framed, with a brace for the sides. These rows of posts, 
standing across the dam, will form the sectional abutments ; the 
middle one may bo constructed by being lengthways of the stream, 
■with short bracoD, so that they will not be in the way of drift-wood 
passing down tho stream ; it being necessary for strong pieces for 
a bridge. Then cover the sills with an apron of 2-inch plank 
joined perfectly straight, to extend 30 or 40 leet below the dam, to 
prevent undermining of the dam. The planks which .are used for 
the purpose of lining the posts which form the abutments of each 
section of tho dam, and the ends of the waste-way, should be truly 
i pointed, so as to prevent any leakage. The dam being built, the 
dirt should be filled in with teams, as the more it is tramped the 
better. Clay or coarse gravel is the best. Then place your gates 
©n the upper side of the waste-way, the size that is necessary to a 
level with low-watermark : which gates are not tc be raised, except 
in times of high water, as tne proper height of the mill-pond should 
be regulated by boards placea over the gate for the desired head, 
as the water should be allowed to pass at all times freely over 
them. To strengthen the dam, if you think ^iecessary, 2-)nch plank 
may be used in lining the front side of the dam, long enough to 
reach from the bottom of the stream (on an inclined plane, and 
next to the body of water) to the top of the dam, and filled up 
nearly to the top of the dam with clay or gravel well trampled 
down. 

Brush or Log Dams are very often used in small, muddy streams. 
When the bottom of the stream is of a soft nature, take a flat boat 
where you want to fix your dam, and drive piles the whole length 
of the stream, about 3 or 4 feet apart, as deep as you can. Take 
young oak saplings, pointed at the end, for the purpose. If you 
can, construct a regular pile-driver, similar to those in use for 
making trestle-work on the railways. This weight may be pulled 
up by horses instead of an engine. When you have finisned driving 
piles, make some boxes or troughs of 2 or 3 inch plank, about 3 
feet wide and as long as the plank is. Sink these in the water, 
the length of the dan ^, close to the piles, by loading them Tfith 



sther with 
of 1 or U 
h a screw 
in become 
be set at 
) mud sill, 
ng as you 
J cay for a 
be capped 
i be lined 
)lank, and 

lilt in two 
he surplua 
fficient for 
dam form 
sills 4 feet 
sills, posts 
'8 of posts, 
aents ; the 
the stream, 
drift-wood 
; pieces for 
nch plank 
he dam, to 
re used for 
its of each 
Id be truly 
built, the 
amped the 
your gates 
essary to a 
sed, except 
md should 
lired head, 
freely over 
inch plank 
enough to 
plane, and 
filled up 
trampled 



iy streams, 
a flat boat 
lole length 
;an. Take 
se. If you 
in use for 
be pulled 
led driving 
k, about 3 
the water, 
them witb 



MACHINISTS, BNOINBERS, *0„ BEOBIPTB, 211 

rock, until the;r are at the bottoift of the etrbata), filling in the 
front part of the dam wilL dirt and brueb, nearly to the height 
you want it. This kind of dam will lai»t a long time. 

Whenever there is a small break in the dam or race, cut up some 
willows and brush, put them in the break along with some straw 
and dirt, and ram them down wit' clay. 

In re card to the flume, the greatest care must be taken to insure 
strength and durability,i'coimbined with tightness. Every step 
taken in its construction must be of such a nature as to unite these 
qualities in the highest possible degree, othelrwise the Whole is. in 
u manner, labof lost. 

Curb for DRUNKBNNBsfl.— Take 5 grs snlbhatii of iroh, 10 grs. 
laiagnesia, II drs. peppermint Water, 1 dl" spint of nutmeg ; mix all 
•together, and take twice per day. 

To MAKB Gun Cotton.— Tdke dry saltpetre, i ot. ; strong oil 
vitriol, i oz. Mix in a tumbler, add 20 grs. of dry cotton wool, 
iitir with a glass rod*5 minutes, remove the cotton and wash from 
Hil traces of the acid in 4 or S waters : then carefully dry under 
420© This is gun cotton. 

The Drcmmond Light is'prbduced by dit-iecting a jet of mixed 
oxygen and hydrogen Upon a pencil ot pure lime, the gases being 
conveyed in separate tubes or pipes, to within a very short distance 
from the aperture at which they are to be delivered, and then flow- 
ing together ahd mixing m very minute quantity oefofe combus- 
tion takes place This arrangement is adopted to ensiire safety. 
The gases are used in the proportion of 2 of hydrogen to 1 of oxy- 
gen, which form a dreadfully explosive mixture. 

NiTRO GLvcBRiNi) IS mad^ by s^ibmitting glycerihe to the action 
of dknixtur^e of 2 parts of sulphuric and 1 part of nitric acid. The 
use of the sulphuric acid being to concentrate the nitric acid, 
which 18 alone conterned m the refaction. In the apparatus ordi- 
narily used, the glycerine and the acids are allowed to mix in the 
stream, and are afterwards agitated for a short time in the recep- 
tacle into which they flow. The nitro-glyceriiie is then allowed 
to settle at the bottom, the acidsi are driaWn off and after a single 
Washing w'ith water the explosive is ready for use. 

Tab GrbAt Sborbts for Trapping Folns and othbr Gamx.-^ 
Musk-rat musk and skunk musk mite'd. Can be procured at the 
druggists, or from the animals themselves To be spread on the bait 
of any trap. This receipt has been sold ae high as $75. Another, 
costing $50, /or minks, ^c. — Unslaked lime, i lb. ; sal-ammoniac, 
3 oz., or muriate of ammonia, 3 oz. Mix. and pulverize. Keep in 
a covered vessel a few days until a tncrough adkni^ture takes 
place. Sprinkle on the bait, or on the ground around the trap. 
Keep in a corked b'ittle. 

Pood for Singing' Birds.— Blah ched sweet almonds, pulverized, 
* lb. ; pea meal, 1 lb. ; saflVon, 3 grs. ; yolks of 2 hard boiled eg^s. 
Reduce all to a powder by rubbing through a sieve. Place the mix- 
ture ih a fi'ving pan over a fire, and add 2 oz. butter and 2 oz 
honey. Sligntly cook for a few minutes, stirring well, then set o: 
to cool, and preserve in a closely corked bottle. 

Photograph PaiStino in Oil Colors.— Tints fob ibb Firb* 
J*AJ»TiNO.— Flbsh.— ITAife and lAght .Rcrf.— White, Naples yelloW| 






212 MACHINISTS, £NaiN££BS, &G., RECEIPTS. 



and vermilion. White, vermilion, and light red. Oray, Pearly^ and 
Half Tints. — White, vermilion, and black. White and terre vcrte. 
White, black, Indian red, and raw umber. Deev Shades. — Light 
red and raw umber. Inaian red, lake and black. Carnations. — 
White and Indian red (powerful color). White and rose madder. 
White and lake. UMR.—Ltg/U Hair. — White and yellow ochre. 
White and Roman ochre. White and Vandyke brown- for the 
dark parts. White and raw umber for the dark parts. Dark 
Brown Hair. — Raw and burnt umber. White and raw umber. 
White and Vandyke brown. Tints fob the Sieoond and Third 
Fainting. — High Lights. — White and Naples yellow. Car- 
na^toTM.— Rose madder and white. Indian red, rose madder, aiA 
white. Oreen Tints. — White and ultramarine, with any of the yel- 
lows. White and terre verte, with the addition of a little raw 
umber. The above green tints may be converted into green grays. 
Gray Tints. — Ultramarine, light red, and white. Indian red, lake, 
black and white. White, ultramarine, Indian red, and raw umber. 
Purple Tints. — Any of the lakes or red madders, with ultramarine 
and white. Powerful Shadow Tints. — Indian red, purple lake, and 
black. Indian red, raw umber, and black. Strong Glazing Colo, 
— Light red and lake. Brown madder. Vandyke brown, Indian 
red, and lake asphaltum. Draperies. — Back Ground Colors.— 
Pearly. — White, vermilion, and blue. White, vermilion and black. 
White and black. Gray. — White, Venetian red and black. Yellow. 
— Yellow ochre and white. Olive. — Yellow ochre, terre verte, and 
umber. Stone. — Raw umber and jellow. Black, white, and raw 
umber. Sky. — French blue ana white. French blue, vermilion, and 
white. ^flif^M ^ C/owcfo.— Yellow ochre and white. Clou4a — Indian 
red, lake, and white. Brown madder, French blue, and white. 

Photograph Water Colors.— Flesh Tints. — No. 1. Fair Com- 
plexion. — Light red, a little carmine or vcimilion, and Indian yel- 
low. Be careful in using the latter, and, in the flesh tints of very 
. fair children^ allow the vermilion to predominate ; carnations, roso 
madder, and. if the face be full of color, add a little vermilion to 
it. 2. Akddling Complexion. — Much the same as No. 1, saving that 
the light red must be in excess over the other colors— carnations 
rose madder^ and lake. 3. Dark Complexion. — Light red and India n 
yellow, or light red and Roman ochre, and, if the complexioii be 
generally ruddy, you may add a littlpi Indian red^ but it must h^ 
sparingly used, as it is a powerful color, and likely to4mpart a 
purple tone to the flesh. Carnations chiefly lake, but if the com 
plexion be warm, lake and a little yellow. The carnations for 
children's portraits are rose madder and vermilion, inclining more 
to the latter tint. Aged persons have rose madder, and a little 
cobalt to give a cold appearance to the color jn their cheeks and 
lips. These tints, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, are indispensable as general 
washes, for the purpose of receiving the other colors, which are 
to be worked over them to bring up the complexion to the life. 
Uncolored photographic portraits vary so much in tone, that the 
beginner will, perhaps, find some difficulty in mixing up the tints 
for the washes. He must note that the warm-toned ones do not 
;-ec|uire so much Indian yellow as the cold ones do. 



uud, 



^ early, and 
terre vcrte. 
ie«.— Light 
\mation8. — 
96 madder, 
low ochre, 
j^tt for the 
18. Dark 
iw umber. 
AND Third 
ow. Car- 
ladder, ant 
of the yel- 
k little raw 
jreen grays, 
la red, lake, 
raw umber, 
ultramarine 
le lake, an<l 
zing Colo, 
>WD, Indian 
) Colors.— 
a and black. 
,ck. Yellow. 
•e verte, and 
ite, and raw 
rmilion, aiul 
j4a. — Indiau 
d white. 
Fair Com- 
indian yel- 
ints of very 
lations, roso 
ermilion to 
saving that 
carnatiouiJ 
and Indian 
plexiom toe 
it must b^ 
to/ftmpart a 
if the com 
imations for 
jlining more 
and a little 
cheeks and 
ie as general 
\ which are 
to the life, 
ne, that the 
p the tints 
mes do iiQt 



MAOniNISTS, ENOINEERS, iO., BECEIPTS. 213 

To laocHRONiSB ▲ Pendulum SrniNO. — A pendulum i« isochronal 
when iia vibrations are performed 5% equal times, whether the 
vibrations be larg-oor small, but it can only possess this property 
by being constrained to move in a cycloidal arc. This is managed 
by causing the spring to wrap and unwrap itself round two equal 
cycloidal cheeks, tiie diameter of whose generating circle la equal 
to half the length of the pendulum. Isochronism is closely 
approximated in practice by causing the pendulum to describe ci 
very small circular arc. 

To Whiten Silver Watch Dials.— Get a piece of cork, a jewel- 
ler's scrub brush, some puttico powder, a small japanned sauce- 
pan, a spirit lamp, a piece of wire bent into a bow, and a little 
vitriol Lay the dial on the cork, wet the end of the brush, dip it 
in the puttice powder, and scrub the dial very clean ; then put 
about a cupful of water in the saucepan, and enough vitriol to 
make :t very tart ; make it hot, lay the dial on th« wire face up- 
Avards, make it white hot over the spirit lamp, drop it flat into 
the vitriol and water, let it lay a few seconds, if it is at all stained 
l)ut it in again for a short time ; if that does not take it out it 
must be scrubbed over again: the most particular point is getting 
tlie dial to the right heat. 

To Construct an ^Eolian flARP.— Makea box with the top, bot- 
tom, Hnd side3 of thin wood, and the ends IJ inch beech, form it 
the same lerifj;- h a^ the width of the window in which it is to be 
placed The box should be 3 or 4 inches deep, and 6 or 7 inches 
W'de la the tup of the box, which acts as a sounding board, 
make 2 circular holes about 2 inches in diameter, and an equal 
distance apart Glue across the sounding board, about 2h inches 
irom each end, 2 pieces of hard wood i inch thick, and ^ inch 
high, to serve as bridges, You must now procure trom any musi- 
cal instrument maker twelve steel pegs similar to those of a piano- 
forte, and 12 small brass pins Insert them in the following man- 
ner into the beech . first commence with a brass pin, then insert a 
steel peg, and so on, placmg them alternatelv * in. apart, to the 
number of twelve Now for the other end, whicn you miist com- 
mence with a steel peg, exactly opposite the brass pm at the other 
end, then a brass pin, and so on, alternately, to the number of 12 ; by 
this arrangement you have a steel peg and a brass pin always oppo- 
site each other, which is done so that the pressure of the strings, on 
the instrument shall be uniform Now string the instrument with 12 
first violin strings, making a loop at one end of each string, which 
put over the brass pins, and wind the other enc 5 round the oppo- 
site steel pegs. Tune them m unison, but do not draw them tight. 
To increase the current of air, a thin board may be placed about 
2 inches above the strings, supported at each end by 2 pieces of 
wood. Place the instrument in a partly opened window, and, to 
increase the draft, open the opposite door. 

To Forge a Twist Drill. — It is necessary to forge a flat blade 
similar to a flat drill, and tlien twist this blade into the resem- 
blance required, then, with a light hammer and careful blows, ham- 
mer the twisted edges so that they will be thicker than the central 
line of the tool. This will give greater strength and a better drill, 
uiid, to cut well, the central line or cutting point must be made 



214 MACHINISTS, ENQINEERS, AC, REOEIPTS. 

quitft thin Be car^l to yet the »nm« twixt at the point of ♦he drill 
aa iipoo the body of ibe drill The pexixjiiearud uttua leavu tliu 
point straight, with no twist, like flat drill. 

Moulding Sand roR Cahti.no ^vlma or Iuon. — The various ktndit 
of good moulding sand eoiploved in foundries tor casiing iron or 
brass, have been found to be of almost uniform chemical composi- 
tion, varying in grain, or the aggregate form only. It contains be- 
tween 93 and 96 parts sllez, or grains of sand, and from 36 to (I 
parts claj, and a little oxide of iron, in each 100 parts. Moulding; 
sand, which contains lime, magnesia, and other ozide:^ of metal, is 
not applicable, particularly for the casting of iron or brass. Such 
sand la either too close, will not stand or retain its form, or it will 
cause the metal to boil through its closeness. 

REFuriNQ Fldxbs, for Metals.— Deflagrate, and afterwards pul- 
verize, 2 parts of nitre and 1 part of tartar. The following fluxes 
answer very well, provided the ores be deprived of all their sul- 
phur, or if they contain much earthy matter, because, in the latter 
case, they unite with them, and convert them into a thin glass, 
but, if any quantity of sulphur remains, their fluxes unite with it, 
and form a liver of sulphur, which has the power of destroying & 
portion of all the metais, consequently the assay must be, under 
such circumstances, very inaccurate. Limestone, feldspar, fluor- 
spar, quartz, sand-slate, and slags, are all used as fluxes. Iron 
ores, on aceount of the argillaceous earth they contain, require 
calcareoud additions ; and the copper ores, rather slags, or nitres- 
cent stones, than calcareous earth. 

BtTiiNiNO Iron Castings togethbr. — The usual mode is by imbeds 
ding the castings in the sand, having a little space left vacant 
round about the joint where it is to be burned. Two gates must 
then be provided, one lying on a level with the lower side of thiij 
space, and the otner raised so that the metal, which must be very 
hot, is pouted in at the higher one ; it passes round, Alls up tho 
space, and runs ofifat the lower gate. A constant supply of metal 
is thus kept up, till the parts of tne casting are supposea to be on 
the eve or meltinjjf. The lower gate is then closed, and the supply 
stopped. When cool, and the sunerfluous metal chipped off, it 
forms as strong a joint as if it had been original. 

Pot MBTAL.—Copper, 40 lbs. ; lead, 16 lbs. ; tin, IJ lbs. 

To Bend Glass Tubes.— Hold the tube in the upper part of the 
flame of a spirit-lamp, revolving it slowly between the lingers ; 
when red hot it may be easily bent into any desired shape. To 
soften large tubes a lamp with a double current of air should be 
used, as it gives a much stronger heat than the simple lamp. 

To Lessen Noisb in Workshops —Place a piece of India-rubber 
under the feet of the machines or benches on which the machined 
are placed. 

To Solder Tortoisb Shell. — Bring the edges of the pieces of 
shell to fit each other, observing to give the same inclination of 

fraln to eafch^ then secure them in a piece of paper, and place them 
etween hot ilrons or pihcers ; apply pressure, ana let them cool. 
The heat must not be so great aa to burn the shell, therefore tvy i( 
first on a white pieee of paper. 



Machinists, enqineers, ac, ftECEiPxs. 



01 ft 



15 



To iiAKK LiNflRfSD AND GuTTQK aRRD OILS.— In making linsetd nit 
quite a variety of tnaohinery is used, more or leas expensive aoQurd-* 
ing to the enterprise aid capital of the manafaeturer. The seed is 
first passed through iron rollers, to be oruibed or groundt one of 
the rollers is made to revolve more rapidly than the other, which 
subjects each seed to a pulling as well as to a crushing proeesi. The 
meal is taken from the mill to the ' chasers,' when it is subjected to 
another crushing prot^ess, more severe than the first. The chasers 
are 2 large circular stones about five feet diameter, and 18 inches 
ithiok, rolling upon a third stone in the manner of an old-fashioned 
bark or cider mill. These heavy stones «tart the oil from the seed, 
and to keep it from adhering to the chasers it is moistened with 
water. The meal is next put into an iron cylinder, whioh is kept 
revolving over a fire until the water ie evaporated. Muoh of the 
skill of making oil depends upon this heating process. It must not 
be scorched, and yet it must be brought up to a high tomperature, so 
that it will readily give out its oil. The presses are of various 
fitructure, some of them are patented, and others not open to public 
riflpeotion. In one, the vats or hoops holding about 2 bushels each, 
wore placed opposite each other against two immense beams or 

prights, made fast in the foun' itions of the building. The 
nlluwers were forced down upon th meal by 2 large levers worked 
■ >y hydraulic powers. The meal is kept under pressure about an 
'lour, and the two presses work up about 92 bushels of seed every 
24 hours, the mill being kept running night and day. The product 
is not far from 2 gals, of oil from a bushel of seed, a little more or 
less, according to the quality of the seed and the skill in pressing. 
The cakes, as taken from 'the press, are generally pold by the ton 
without grinding, and are generally exported in this form, but when 
there is a market in the vicinity of the mill, the eakes are put under 
the chasers, ground into meal, bagged and sent to the feed stores. 
The price of the Qake is from $30 to $40 per ton ; ground into meal it 
retails at about $2 per 100 lbs. The process of making the cotton 
seed oil and cake is nearly the same. The seed of the upland cotton 
is surrounded with a husk, to which the cotton adheres. It is 
surrounded with a soft down after it leaves the gin, q,nd in this 
condition it is purchased from the planter. The seed makes batter 
oil and better meal when it is deprived of this hull and down. The 
yield of oil is about 90 gallons per 100 bushels of the Sea Island, or 
2 gals, to 66 lbs. of the hulled cotton seed. 

Black Dip fob Brass. — Hydroohlorio acid (commonly called 
smoking salts), 12 lb., sulphate of iron 1 lb., and pure white arsenic 
1 lb. This dip is used in all the large factories in Birmingham, but 
the dip u(ied in the London trade is 2 oz. of corrosive sublimate, in 
1 pt. of the best vinegar, cork both air tight in a bottle, lei it stand 
24 hours, then it is fit for use. 

To Ri:-covER Hammkhs in Pianos. — Get felt of graduated thickness, 
cut it in stcips the exact width, touch only the two ends with glue, 
not the part striking the strings. Hold in place with springs of 
narrow hoop iron. 

Artificial PEARLS.—Are made from beads of opaline glass fiU«d 





if 


n 






wi 


f 


!"■ 


■ 


ii-: 




S ' : 


1 








■h. 


M^ 


1 


^ ■ 


' i 


Is 






r 1 






i-l 


■ 




W A 




!.■ .» > m 






m 


: 



216 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

trith gum, the polish of the glass being reduced by the yapor oC 
hydrofluoric acid. 

Stalba's Nickel pLATraa Process.-- Consists in plating with 
nickel, by the aotic.i of zinc upon salts of nickel, in the presence of 
chloride of zinc and the metal to be plated. By this process, Stalba 
states that he has succeeded i/k p^aMng objects of wrought and cast, 
iron, steel, copper, brdss, zinc and lead. It is only necessary that 
the size of the objects should permit them to be covered entirely by 
the plating liquid, and that their surfaces should be free from dirt. 
The following is the unodua operandi : — A quantity of concentrated 
chloride of zinc solution is placed in aj cleaned metallic vessel, and 
to this is added mx equal volum«' of water. This is heated to 
boiling, and hydrochloric acid is added drop by drop, until the 
precipitate whicl had formed on adding the water has disappeared. 
A small quantity ofi^zino powder is now added, which produces a 
zino coating on the metal as far as the liquid extends. Enough of 
the nickel sait (the chloride or sulphate answers equally well) is 
now introduced to color the liquid distinctly green ; the objects to be 
plated are placed in it, together with some zinc clippings, and tl e 
liquid is brought to boiling. The nickel is precipitated in the coursei 
of 15 minutes, and the objects will be found to be completely coated.. 
The coating varies in lustre with the character of the metu'lio 
surface ; when this is polished, the plating is likewise lustrous and 
vice versa. Salt of cobalt affords a cobalt plating, which is steel 
gray in color, not so lustrous as the nickel, but more liable to tarnish. 

GiTAOiNO Streams. — Multiply the square root of the cube of th<> 
height in inches of the water on the sill of the weir or guage by the 
constant 17.13, which will' give the number of gallons per minute. 
If the water ha^cany initial velocity it must be determined by 
experiment, and 'ih that case multiply the square of the height by 
the square of the velocity, and by 0.8 ; to the product add the cube 
of the height, extract the square root of the sum, and multiply by 
17.13 as before. 

To PREVENT PiTTTNO WITH Small-pox — As soou as the disease is 
distinguished, apply an ointment made of lard and charcoal to the 
face, neck, hf.nds, &o., and continue until all signs of suppurative 
fever have ceased. 

Cornish Reddoing Flux — Tartar lOoz., nitre 3oz., and 6drs. borax, 
3oz. and 1 dr. Mix together. 

To Make Coal Oil — Break the Coal or shale into small pieces 
and put from 10 to l6 cwt. in an iron retort, heated to a dull red 
color. Lute the retort door and keep up the heat for 24 hours. 
By this process a vapor is thrown of*" ;v>-ich passes through ranges of 
cisterns until it condenses, when it i,. i an into cisterns. This crudo 
oil, when refined and purified, is sold as parrafin oil, and solid par- 
rafin for making candles is made from it. 

Damascus Steel. — It is said that this steel consists of a highly 
oarburetted metal which by undergoing careful cooling and annoaling 
separates into two compounds of iron and carbon, giving it the 
peculiar appearance known as " Damasceening." The wonderful 
Btrength of this steel is no doubt owing to careful manipulation. 



/* »e.; 



A 



I. 



e yapor 



oC 



ating "witb 
presence of 
BBSS, Stalba 
;ht and cast 
lessary that 
entirely by 
e from dirt, 
oncentrated 
vessel, and 
J heated to 
), until the 
lisappeared. 
produces a 
Enough of 
illy well) is 
objects to bo 
ngs, and tl <» 
in the coursei 
Btely coated., 
the metullifJ 
lustrous and 
hich is steel 
le to tarnish, 
cube of th(» 
juage by tho 
per minute, 
termined by 
he height by 
idd the cube 
multiply by 

he disease is 

arcoal to the 

suppurative 

6drs. borax, 

small pieces 
to a dull red 
or 24 hours, 
gh ranges of 
This crudo 
solid par- 

8 of a highly 
nd annoaling 
giving it tho 
le wonderful 
julation. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, *C., REOEIPTSi .217 

FiLiNO Saws. — The grand secret of putting any saw in tK5 best 
possible order, consists in filing the teeth at a given angle to cut 
rapidly, and of a uniform length go that the joints will all touch 
a straight edged rule without showing a variation of the hundredth 
part of an inch. Besides this, there should bo just set enough in 
the teeth to cat a kerf as narrow as it can be made, and at the 
same time allow the blade to work freely without pinching. On 
the contrary, the kerf must not be so wide as to permit the blade to 
rattle when in motion. The very points of the teeth do the cutting. 
If one tooth is a twentieth of an inch lon^r than two or three on 
each side of it, the long tooth will be required to do so much more 
cutting than it should, that the sawing cannot be done well, hence 
the saw goes jumping a^ong, working hard and cutting slowly ; if 
one tooth is longer than those on either side of it^he short teeth 
do not cut although their points may be sharp. When putting a 
cross cut saw in order, it will pay well to dress the points with an 
old file, and afterwards sharpen them with a fine whetstone, much 
mechanical skill is necessary to put a saw in prime order, one 
careless thrust with a file will shorten the point of a tooth so much 
that it will be >itterly useless, so far as cutting is concerned ; the 
teeth should be h'et with much care, and the filing done Vith the 
greatest accuracy. If the teeth are uneven at the points, a large 
Hat file should be secured to a block of wood in such a manner 
that the very points only may be jointed, so that the cutting edge 
of the same may be in a straight line, or circle, if it is a circular 
saw ; every tooth should cut a little as the saw is worked. The 
teeth of a band saw for all kinds of work should be filed fleaming, 
or at an angle on the front edge, while the back edges may be 
filed fleaming, or square across the blade. The best way to file a 
circular saw for cutting wood across the grain, is to dress every 
fifth tooth square across, and apart one twentieth of an inch 
shorter than the others, wnich should be filed fleaming at an angle 
of about forty degrees. 

As regards such saws as aremsed for cutting up large logs into 
lumber it is of the utmost importance to have them filea at such an 
angle as will ensure the largest amount of work with the least 
expenditure of power. The following diagrams will he^p to illustrate 
our meaning. Fig. 1. shows the shape of teeth which nearly all ex- 




Fio. 1. 



i 



218 MACHINISTS, ENOmSEBS, &C., RBOSIPTS. 

perienced mill-men consider as that*8tanda]<d foim which combined 
the greatest amount of strength and capacity for rapid work, with 
the minimum of driving power while doing the work. 

Figure No. 2 represents a passable form of teeth which are capa« 
ble (udoing a good deal of work, but their great weakness liest in 
their slender points. Look out for " breakers" when teoth of tMa 
description are pasising through dry spruce or hemlock knots. 




Fig. No. 3 illustrates the appearance of one of those intolerahle 
wood yaaps which are altogether too common m aaw-mills. Onlv 
Utiuk what an appalling waste of valuable power is required to 
4rive a "jigger '' like this through a large log I 




Fig. 8. 

Pig. 4, at c, is intended to show the method of ascertaining tin 
proper angle, that of sixty degrees, at which auch saws should bt» 
filed. The diagram being self-explanatory requires but; little furthef 
elucidation here. A quarter circle with lines radiatiu ' from the 
centre towards the circumference is represented near the verge of 
the segment of a circular saw. The lower part corresponds with 
the level of the horizouj and the higher part at 90° corresponds 



combined 
y^ork, with 



I are capa- 
less liea in 
oth of tMa 

UliOtS. 



/ 



le intolerable 

mills. Only 

required to 



Attaining thl 
ms should bb 
little furthef 
In ' from the 
Ihe verge of 
Isponds with 
icorresponda 



HACHINISTS, BNaiNEEItS, IC.j RECEIPTS. 



m 



With the zenith or meridian, where the sun appears at noon-daj. 
Exactly half-way up is 4f><* ; look up a little higher and you will 
find 60^ indicated by the radiating line which runa parallel with 
the an^le of the tooth of the saw and this is the guide you must 
follow in filing. The same rule is seen applied to a straight mill 
law at 6. 




Many good authorities contend that mill aaws should in on casf 
P-lset with the instrument commonly used for that purpose, h\x\ 



I 



^20 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

that in lieu thereof the teeth should bo spread out at the pointg 
with the swage or u{;jet to a saiUeient extent to permit the body of 
the sAw to operate without binding. Both instrutnent« require to 
be akilfally nandled; and tbe swage, when used in this way, has 
proTed itself equal to ev<ery emergency' without the risk of break- 
ing the teeth, it would be quite safe to say that the saw-set should 
only be used on saws of this description with the irost extreme 
caution and care; Every manufacturer, however, .; \s his own 
opinion, and consequent practice on the subject, somo contending 
that one way is rigl^t and the other directly the reverse. 

To Repair Pa^otubed Circular Saws. — The best way to do 
this is to drill a sdMll und hole at the termination of the crack, 
which) eflPectually preVv i s its further extension. I havo seen some 
circular saws v^ry neatly repaired by riveting thin clamps to each 
side of the fracture, both clamps «\^d rivets being countersunk so 
they will be level with the surface^of the saw, and placed in such 
a position across ^he craci£ as to Impart the greatest possible 
strecgth-to. the weakest place. A table of the speed of circular 
saws Can be s^n at page 169, this, however, does not embrace che 
velocity of shingle* machine saws, whiofitfttght to make at least 
1400 revolutions per minute. 

To ]!^BND BRokEN C ROSS OUT Saws. — Ii^ the first place scarf oflf 
the broken edges in such a manner that when lapped over each 
other they will be about the same thickness as tne rest of the 
plate, and rivet them together loosely with iron rivets inserted 
through holes which must bte' punched for that purpose; the ends 
must be united with great accuracy so that the teeth, &c., of the 
saw may range tiriSfty* Now j^ace the saw in the fire", then a flux of 
powdered borax and sal ammoniac £s flowed all over it after iiaving 
It riisett to th proper heat. See page 173 for preparing and using 
the composition. Return the saw to tL« fire and when it is raised 
to the proper welding heat, place it on the anvil and' unite the 
joint as rapidly as possible with the hammer; be cAreful not to 
heat so hot as to injure the steel. Whan the job is well done, and 
the part properly tempered, it will be founds as strong as the rest 
of the plate. I know one blacksmith in Canada who told nte that 
this class of work was the best paying part of his business. 

Power op EimiNSs. — Horse-power in steam engines is calculated 
as the power which would raise 33,000 lbs. a foot high in a minute, 
or 90 lbs. at the rate of 4 miles an htnir. One horse-power is equal 
to the lifting, by a pump, of 250 hogsheads of water ten feet in an 
hour. Or it would drive 100 spindlestof cotton yarn twist, or 500 
fipindles of No. 48 mule yarn, or 1000 of No. 1 10, or 12 power looms. 
One horse-power is produced by 19 lbs. of Newcastle coals, 50 lbs. 
of wood, or 34 lbs. of culm. Coals 1, wood 3, and culm 2, give 
equal heats in the production of steam. 

Sixteen lbs. of Newcastle coal converts 100 lbs. of water into 
steam. A bushel of coal per hour raises steam to 15 lbs. the 
square inch, whose velocitj^ is 1350 feet per second, and 2 bushels 
raise it to 120 lbs., or velocity of 3800 feet per second. A horse- 
power requires from 5 to 7 gallons of water per minute for conden- 
8^ition of steam. A steam engine whose cylinder is 31 inches, with 



at the points 
it the body of 
ttts require to 
thl8 way, has 
risk of break- 
aw-set should 
jpnst extreme 

:, -s his own 
Qc contending 
rse. 

jt way to do 
L of the crack, 
lavo seen some 
clamps to each 
jountersunk go 
placed in such 
eatest possible 
eed of circular 
ot embrace the 

make at least 

place scarf off 
3ped oret each 
the rest of tlie 
rivets inserted 
rpose ; the ends 
feth, &c., of the 
!', then a flux of 
r it after tiaring 
airing and using 
rhen it is raised 
and' unite the 
J cftreful not to 
well done, and 
'ong as the rest 
rho told me that 
business, 
les is calculated 
gh in a minute, 
3-power is equal 
;r ten feet in an 
irn twist, or 500 
2 power looms. 
;le coals, 50 lbs. 
id culm 2, give 

of water into 

to 15 lbs. the 

», and 2 bushels 

bond. A horsc- 

^ute for conden- 

31 inches, witli 



Machinists, engineers, ac, receipts. 221 

!lV double strokes per minute, performs the constant wOrk of 40 
Jiorses with 5 tons of coal per day. One of 19 inches and 25 strokes 
of 12 horses, with 1 J tons per day. They raise 20,000 cubic feet of 
water 24 feet for every hundred weigtt of coals. One bushel of 

food coals raises from 24 to 82,000,000 lbs. one foot per minute, 
our bushel of coals per hour, with a cylinder of 31 1 inches and 
17^ strokes of 7 feet per minute, is a force equal to 40 horses con- 
stantly. A rotative double engine, with a cylinder of 23.75 inches, 
making 21.5 strokes of 6 feet per minute, is a 20 horse-power; and 
a cylinder of 17.5, making 25 strokes of 4 feet is a 10 horse-power ; 
the consumption of coals being proportional. 

On Steam BoimBs.-^Regardmg the steam engine as under Pro- 
vidence, one of the most powerful civilizing agents in existence, 
and the procuring cause rf the bread of many thousands of our 
fellow-bemgs, it seems highly proper to place on record some well- 
known facts regarding boiler construction and the properties of 
steam, A;c., in order that such knowledge may be used to n&itigate 
the number of those lamentable accidents which, in too many 
cases, owe their origin to ignorance and incapacity. Regarding 
the form of boilers, it is now an ascertained fact tliat the maximum 
strength is obtained b^ adopting the cylindrical or circular form, 
the haycock, hemispherical, and waggon-shaped boilers, so general 
at one time, have now deservedly gone almost out of use. Good 
boiler plate is capable of withstanding a tensile strain of 50,000 
lbs. or eOjOOO lbs. on every square inch of soction ; but it will only 
bear a third of this strain without permanent derangement of struc- 
ture, and 4000 lbs., or 3000 lbs. even, upon the square inch, is a 
preferable proportion. K has been found that the tenacity of 
boiler-plate increases with the temperature up to 570**, at which 
point the tenacity commences to diminish. At 32° the cohesive 
force of a square inch of section was 56,000 lbs.: at 570® it was 
;66,500 lbs. ; at 720°, 55,000 lbs. ; at 1050«, 32,000 lbs. ; at 1240» 
i22,000 lbs. ; and at 131 70, 9,000 lbs. Strips of iron, when cut in the 
[direction of the fibre, were found by experiment to be 6 per cent, 
stronger than when cut across the grain. The strength of riveted 
joints has alao been demonstrated oy tearing them directly asun- 
der. In two different kinds of joints, double and single riveted, 
[the strength was found to be, in the ratio of the plate, as the 
numbers 100, 70, and 56. 

Assuming the strength of the plate to be 100 

The strength of a double riveted joint would be, after 

^allowing for the adhesion of the surfaces of the plate.. 70 

And the strength of a single riveted joint 56 

These figures, representing the relative strengths of plates and 
joints in vessels required to be steam and water tight, may be 
safely relied on as perfectly correct. The accidental overheating 
of a boiler has been found to reduce the ultimate or maximum 
strength of the plates from 65,000 to 45,000 lbs. per square inch of 
section. The greatest caution should be exercised agaiust l6w 
water and incrustations in the boiler, for, in that case, the plates 
lover the furnace are apt to get red hot, and,when in this state, they 
ihave lost five-sixths of their strength, and there is then danger of 



'i 



■ S'-'Iffilt' 



h: ;t 






222 MACHINISTS, engineeHs, &o., receipts. 

bursting the boiler, even at the common working pressure, as & 
force of less than one-eixth of the usual strength of the plates will 
be found sufficient to do so. To let in a great body of water on he 
incandescent plates at such a time only increases the danger, by 
suddenly generating a large volume of nighly elastic steam. The 
proper way, during such emergency, is not to draw the fires, for 
then there is no time for that, but to open the furnace doors and 
dash in a few bucketsful of water upon the fire, and blow off the 
steam as rapidly as possible. Every description of boiler used in 
manufactories or on board of steamers should be constructed to 
a bursting pressure of 400 to 500 lbs. on the square inch ; and loco- 
motive engme boilers, which are subject to much harder duty, to a 
bursting pressure of 600 to 700 lbs. Such boilers are usually 
worked at 80 to 100 lbs. on the inch, but are frequently worked up 
to a pressure of 120, and, when rising steep grades, sometimes even 
as high as 200 lbs. to the square inch. In a boiler subject to such 
an enormous working pressure, it requires the utmost care and 
attention on the part of the engineer to satisfy himself that the flat 
surfaces of the nre box are capable of resisting that pressure, and 
that every part of the boiler is so nearly balanced in its powers of 
resistance as that, when one part is at the point of rupture, every 
other part is at the point of yielding to the same uniform force ; for 
we find that, taking a locomotive boiler of the usual size, 
even with a pressure of 100 lbs. on the square inch, it retains 
an expanding force within its interior of nearly 60,000 tons, which 
is rather increased than diminished at a high speed. To snow the 
strain upon a high-pressure boiler, 30 feet long, 6 feet diameter, 
having 2 centre flues, each 2 feet 3 inches diameter, working at a 
pressure of 50 lbs. on the square incn, we have only to multiply 
the number of the square feet of surffice, 1030, exposed to pressure, 
by 321, and we have the force of 3319 tons, which such a boiler has 
to sustain. To go farther, and estimate the pressure at 450 lbs. on 
the square inchj which a well-constructed boiler of this size will 
bear before it bursts, and we have the enormous force of 29,871, or 
nearly 30,000 tons, bottled up within a cylinder 30 feet long and 6 
feet diameter. Boilers in actual use should be tested at least cnce 
a year, by forcing water into them by the hand feed-pump, until 
the safety-valve is lifted, which should be loaded with at least 
twice the working pressure for the occasion. If a boiler will not 
stand this pressure it is not safe, and either its strength should be 
increased or the working pressure should be diminished. Internal 
flues, such as contain the furnace in the interior of the boiler, 
should be kept as near as possible to the cylindrical form ; and, as 
wrought iron will yield to a force tending to crush it about one- 
half of what would, tear it asunder, the flues should in no case 
exceed one-half the diameter of the boiler, with the same thickness 
of plates they may be considered equally safe with the other parts. 
The force of compression being so different from that of tension, 

greater safety would be ensured if the diameter of the internal 
ues were in the ratio 1 to 2^ instead of 1 to 3 of the diameter of 
the boiler. As regards the relative size and strength of flues, it 
. may be stated that a circular flue 18 inches in diameter will resist 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, kG., RECEIPTS. 



223 



double 'he preaniro of oie 3 feet in diameter. Mill owners, with 
J Ion y of roo i uni a limit d experience witli steam power, would 
dj Well to dispense wi>h boilers containing many flaes, tbe exoeuse 
is greater and tbe durability less than wbere there is two or three 
only. Tbe foam caused by a large number of flues is apt' to deceiver 
an inexperienced engineer, causing him to believe that there is 
plenty of water in the boiler when he tries the gauge cock.whca 
there is really but very little, often causing an explosion. Some 
mill-owners insert a fusible plug in the crown of the forzueo to 
indicate danger from low water. As common lead melts ai 620<*, 
a rivet ot this metal, I inch in diameter, inserted immediately over 
the fire place, will give due notice, so that relief may be obtained 
before the internal pressure of the steam exceeds that of the resist- 
ing power of the heated plates. In France, an extensive use is 
made of fusible metal plates, generally covered by a perforated 
metallic disk, which protects the alloy of which the plate is com-> 
posed, and allows it to ooze through as soon as the steam has 
attained the temperature necessary to insure the fusion of the plate, 
which varies from 280® to 350<*, The reader will find a number of 
such alloys under the tabular view of alloys and their melting 
heats, pase 243 . Another method is the bursting plate, fixed in a 
frame and attached to some convenient part of the upper side of 
the boiler, of such thickness and ductility as to cause rupture when 
the pressure exceeds that on the safety valve. But, beyond all ques- 
tion, constant use should be made on all boilers of a good and reli- 
able system of steam gauges, glass tubes, guage cocks, safety valves, 
&c. By means of th^ glass tubes affixed to the fronts of the boilers, 
the height of the water within the boiler is indicated at once, for 
thei water will stand at the same height in the tube that it stands in 
the boiler, communication being established with the water below 
and the steam above, by means of stop cocks. The guage cocks 
are cocks penetrating the boiler at different heights, and which, 
when opened, tell whether it is water or steam that exists at the 
level at which they are respectively inserted. The average level 
of the water in the boiler should be above the centre of the tube, 
and the lowest of the guage cocks should always run water, ana 
the highest blow steam. The steam gauge indicates the pressure 
of steam by a hand on a dial. It sometimes happens that tha glass 
tube gets choked up, and, to correct this, the cocks connecting 
the tube with the boiler should be so constructed that the tube 
may be blown through with the steam, to remove any obstacle that 
may interfere with its use. By blowing off the boiler frequently, a 
large amount of calcareous, and, on ocean vessels, saline matter, 
will be got rid of, which otherwise would cause trouble and per- 
plexity by forming incrustations and deposits on the boiler, and 
which interferes most seriously with the transmission of tiie heat 
from the boiler plates to the water. In many cases the plates get red 
hot, causing the scale to crumble ; the water thus suddenly admit- 
ted to the highly heated surface is at once transformed into highly 
rarefied steam, and the boiler is bursted. Too much caution cannot 
be exercised to see that the safety valve is properly loaded and 
that no impediment exists to impair its free action, and that all 
^be o^her apertures, valves, &c., belonging to the boiler jvre in good 



i 



h: 



i 'I 



*' f 



I 



22^ aiACUlNlSTfcJ, ENGINEEBB, &C., RECEIPTS, 

working order, but be specially particular that the care and mano 
agement of the "whole is entrusted to a person well recommended 
for caution and intelligence in his profession. No fact is better as- 
certained than that the great majority of boiler explosions have 
resulted from the employment of ignorant and incapable prac- 
titioners, who, being utterly oblivious to all sense or danger on 
their own account, cannot be expected to care for the safety of 
others. For eemmta for Steam BoilerSj &c., see page 182. For pre- 
venting incrustation, see page 189, to which 1 will here add that 
Irish moss is also a good preventive of scale. Regarding the power 
of boilers, it ihay be stated that aboiler 30 feet long and 3 feet in 
diameter, will aftord 30 x 3 x 3.14 x 2 ~ 141 .30 square feet of surface, 
or steam for 14 horse-power, if 10 feet are assumed for one horse- 
power. Two short boilers are preferable to one long one, on ac- 
count of having more fire surface, — it being always necessary to 
have as much fare surface as possible to make the best use of the 
fuel— as the hotter the surfa ce is kept, the less fuel it takes to do the 
same amount of work. In some localities, such as the lumbering 
territory of New-Brunswick, it would be no economy to save fuel, 
many of the mills driven by water being put to a heavy expense 
in removing and burning off the debris. When there is a large 
furnace it gives the fireman a better chance to keep the steam regu- 
lar, for when clearing out one part of the furnace, he can keep a 
hot fire in the other. For each horse-power of the engine the:e 
ought to be at least one square foot of grate, and three feet would be 
better. In setting a boiler, arrangement should be made to carry 
on combustion with the greatest possible heat. This requires good 
non-conductors of heat, such as orick, with which to surround the 
fire. If these bricks are of a white color, the combustion is more 
perfect than if of a dart color. The roof, as well as the sides, of 
the furnace should be of white fire-brick. The t ars of the furnace 
should be 18 or 20 inches below the boiler or crcwn of the furnace. 
The fire should be kept open and thin, and frequently and spar- 
ingly supplied, to allow the air to enter between the bars, for the^ 
better consumption of the inflammable gases. The bars should^ 
slope downward toward the back part, about half an inch to' 
the foot. The ashes should be often cleaned out, and not st ""ered 
to accumulate, otherwise it will stop the draft, burn out the bars,' 
and take more fuel. A crack in a boiler plate may be closed by, 
boring holes in the direction of iLc crack and inserting rivets 
with large heads, so as to cover up the imperfection. If the top! 
of the furnace be bent down, from the boiler having been accident- 
ally allowed to get short of water, it may be set up again by a screw-^ 
jack, a fire of wood having been previously made beneath the in- 
jured plate ; but it will in general be nearly as expeditious a course 
to remove the plate and introduce a new one, and the result will 
be more satisfactory. There is one object that requires very parti- 
cular attention, and which must be of a certain size to produce the 
Jbest effect, and that is the flue leading from the boiler to the chim- 
ney, as well as the size and elevation of the chimney itself. 
Every chimney should be built several feet above the mill house, 
so that there is no obstruction to break the air from the top of the 
iJbimAey. In England a factory chimney suitable for a 20 horse* 



)ars, for the, 



MACHINISTS, B_NaiS(BEES; 40.7 BBOlIPts: 226 

power boiler is commonly made about 20 inches square inside, and 
80 feet high, and these dimenBions are correct for consumption of 
15 lbs. coal per horse-power pef kovLV, a commoji consumption for 
factory engines. In the Dominion of Canada and the United 
States, cbimnoys of plate iron, from 30 to 50 feet high, are in quite 
common use by owners of saw, and other mills, and they seem to 
answer every requirement. 

Composition vor Covbrinq Boilers, ko. — Road scrapings, free 
from stones, 2 parts ; cpw manure, gathered from the pasture, 1 
part ; mix thoroughly, and add to e^ch barrowful of tho mixture 
6 lbs of fire clay ; } lb. of flax shoves or chopped hay, and 4 ozs. 
teased hair. It must be well mixed and chopped ; then add ao 
much water as will bring it to the consistency of mortar,— the, more 
it 13 worked the tougher it is. It may either be put on with tho 
trowel or daubed on with the hand, the first coat about 1 inch 
thick. When thoroughly dry, another, the same thickness, and so 
on, three inches is quite enough, but the more tho better. Let each 
coat be scored like plaster, to. prevent, cracks, the laati coat light 
and smooth, so as to receive paint, whitewash, &c. The boiler, or 
pipes, must first be brushed with a thin wash of the mixtui^o to 
ensure a catch. 

RuLB FOB Size op ylindbb. — The requisite diameter of cylinder 
for a 26 horse beam engine is 28 inches, and aboui; 5 feet stroke. 
The nominal horse- power of any sized cylinder can be found by 
the following formulae : — For low pressure or beam engines, 
divide the area of cylinder by 25, which will give the number of 
horse.-power. For nigh pressure horizontal engines divide the 
area of cylinder's diameter bjr 12-5, which will give the number of 
horse-power, including all friction. 

Stroke of Bnoinbs. — The stroke of an engine varies according 
to circumstances, which the designer must take into consideration, 
but the general rule is to make the stroke about twice the diameter 
of the cylindor. The diameter of the fly wheel should be ubout 4 
times the stroke of tho engine, and the rim should weigh about 
3 cwt. per horso potrcr. 

Balancb Wheklej. — Every balance wheel should be speeded up 
so as to run twico or three times as fast as the crank shaft it is 
intended to balance. When a balance wheel is applied in this way 
it makes the machine run a great deal more steadily, for, when 
the balance wheel is geared into the crank shaft, and runs two or 
three times faster than the crank shaft, it forms a power of Itsolf, 
when going over the centre, which propels the crank shaft until i* 
reaches the quarter where it again takes its power from the 
machine. Although it takes an additional shaft and gears to apply 
C balance wheel in this way, the saving of metal in the balance 
T/hoel fully compensates for the extra labour, for, when a balance 
wheel is speeded three times as fast da the crank shaft, it needs 
only one tnird of the metal in it that it would were it not speeded 
up at all, and if balance wheels were applied in this way gener- 
ally it would make all engines run far more steadily. 

To Straighten Shaftinq. — This should be done by centreing, 
then put it into a lathe, and square the ends up with what is called 
a side tooL. After doing this, take a piece of chalk and try it \^ 

f 



11 i 


ill 1 


' i'i ( 




i*'"* 


ii' ' 


if;-- ^ 




ii I; 


:| 1'' t ' 




m.^) ■ ' 


iBt ] ''Wf 


EBj ' ' , y^ BP 


1' ^^Jin 


m ,^hH| 



226 MACHINISTS, £NOIN£EBS; kO., '^XOEIPTS. 

several places, to find out where the worst crooks are : then, if 

{'ou hav^i not a machine for springing sbaftinfr, spring it with h 
ever where the most crools: is, and conliuue this operation till the 
shaft is straight. 

TuRNiNO Shafting.— To do this properly, two chips should 
always be run over the shaft, for the reason that it saves filing and 
leaves the shaft truer and more round, and on shafts thus turned, 
the time siaved in filing more than compensates for the time lost in 
turning. Before you commence vou will put your feed belts or 
gear on a coarse feed ; turn otf one a Bixty-fourth of an inch 
larger than the size required ; having turned oil' this chip, com- 
mence the finishing chip, and turn it small enough to have the 
pully wring on about an inch without filing. This will leave it 
large enough to file and finish. If there are couplings to go on a 
shut with noles smaller than the holes in the pulleys, the ends of 
the snaft, where they fit on, should be turned down to a sixty-fourth 
of an inch of the size reiquired before any part of the shaft is 
finished : that is, every part of a shaft should be turned to within 
a sixty-iourth of an inch of the size required before any part 
if it has the finish-chip taken off. The reason for that is that it 
leaves every part of the shaft perfectly true, which would not 
be the case were it done otherwise. Having done this, you will 
file the shaft so that the pulleys will slide on. and the couplings so 
that thoy will drive on ; polisn the shaft with a pair of polishing- 
clamps and some emery and it is done. 

Working Stbbl fob Tools. — In working steel for tools, great 
care should be taken to hammer all sides alike, for if one side is 
hammered more than another it will cause it to spring in harden- 
ing. Again, steel, when being hammered, should oe heated as )iot 
as it will stand, until finishing and should then be hammered until 
almost black hot, for the reason that it jets the grain finer, and 

gives the tool a oetter edge. The reason for heating the steel no 
ot while hammering is simply because it makes the steel tougher 
when hardened, and softer when annealed ; while, if it were 
worked at a low red heat, the continued percussive shocks of the 
hammer would so harden it as to make it almost impossible to 
anneal it, and at the same time render it brittle when hardened. 

Tbmpebinc Tool,* — Drawing the temper of tools is usually done 
in o charcoal flaro.o. and to draw the temper of a tool properly it 
should be held in tnc thickest part, or the part not requiring any 
temper x)ward8 the fire, and in the meantime, ohould be often 
wiped with a pieco of waste or rag, dipped in oil. The oil keeps 
the temper even, and prevents it drawing more to one place than 
another. And in drawing the temper of any tool it should be 
drawn very slowly^ otherwise it will run too far ere you are aware 
of it. Lancet blades and razors should be drawn to a straw 
color. Knifis blades and chisels jhould be drawn to a copper or 
almost red color. Plane irons, shaving knives and shoemakers 
knives the same temper: cold chisels and stone drills, should be 
drawn to a dark bluo. Fluted reamers should only be drawn to a 
straw color, on the end, as they novcr bfeak elsewhere, and keep 
their size longer by leaving the lips hard. Half pound or tapering 
tQsm<iTBf also taps, dies, and drills^ should be drawn to a straw 






PTS. 

I are : then, if 
ring it with h 
sration till the 

chips should 
aves filing and 
Ls thus turned, 
he time lost in 

feed belts or 
ih of an inch 
his chip, com- 
h to have the 
s will leave it 
figs to go on a 
ys, the ends of 
) a sixty-fourth 
)f the shaft is 
irned to within 
fore any part 
that is that it 
ch would not 

this, you will 
]e couplings so 
r of polishing- 

br tools, great 

r if one side is 

■ing in harden- 

3 heated as liot 

ammered until 

rain finer, and 

n;^ the steel bo 

B steel tougher 

ile, if it were 

shocks of the 

impossible to 

n hardened. 

s usually done 

)ol properly it 

requiring any 

lould be often 

The oil keeps 

>no place than 

I it should be 

you are aware 

n to a straw 

to a copper or 

d shoemakers 

lis, should be 

)e drawn to u 

lere, and keep 

d or tapering 

a to a $tra*(V 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, REOEIPTB. 227 

color. Jiiucs and gauges,, also common lathe tools, need no 
drawincr, being tempered nough when merely hardenea. 

Mallbablb (Dast Iron. — The great secret of thin sort of work la 
tho annealing:, which if not done properly the castinf;^ are f no 
use at all. The best mode is to take an iron pan, say unc ibot 
square ; put in a layer of charcoal, then some of the castings, then 
another layer. When the pan is full cover it over with some sand, 
to keep the charcoal Vrom burning away. Put on an Id piece of 
iron for a lid to cover r^ll, put it in the annealing furnace, and get 
the beat up quitewslow and gradually, taking care not to get the 
heat up too quick. After you have got it to the proper Ixat, which 
is this, the castings must be red hot through ; keep it at this heat 
for 5 or 6 hours, then let your firo die gradually out, or, if you 
want to take some out and put more in, take .b^m to a corner and 
bury them, pan and all, — kt them lie there .'1\ properly cooled, 
Regarding the melting, procure not less than two good sorts of 
No. 2 pig iron, which you may mix with some good scrap if you 
choose ; the casting, melting, and moulding arc conductea in the 
sr,me manner as common cast-iron, only the metal being hard, 
when casting, you have to make properly constructed runners and 
risers, or flow gates, if the article is likely to sink, fbr you cannot 
pump it well. 

Japamninq Castings. — Clean them well from the sand, then dip 
them in or paint them over with good boiled linseed oil : when 
moderately ary. heat them in an oven to such a temperature as 
will turn the oil black, without bfurning. The stove should not bo 
too hot at first, and the heat should be gradually raised to r^roid 
blistering ; the slower the change in the oil is efifected the oetter 
will be the result. The castings, if smooth at first, will receito a 
fine black and polished surface by this method. 

CoNCBRNiNG Saws. Railway Springs, &o. — When the saws are 
wanted to be rather nard, but little oi the oil tempering composition 
(See page 176) is burned oflf ; when milder, a large portion ; and 
'for a spring temper the whole is allowed to burn away. Saws as 
[well as springs appear to lose their elasticity, after hardening and 
tempering, from the reduction they undergo in grinding and po- 
lishing. Towards the conclusion of the manufacture, the elasticity 
of the saw is restored principally bv hammering, and partly over 
a clear coke fire to a straw color ; the tint is removed by very di- 
luted muriatic acid, after which the sawsare well washed in pl&in 
water and dried. Spring manufacture includes the heaviest speci- 
mens of hardened steel works uncombined with iron ; for example, 
bow-springs for all kinds of vehicles, some intended for railway 
use. measure 3^ feet long, and weigh 50 lbs. each piece ; two of 
these are used in combination; other single springs are 6 feet long, 
and weigh 70 lbs. The principle of these bow-springs will be im- 
[inediately seen by conceiving the common archery bow fixed hori- 
zontally with its cord upwards ; the body of the carriage being at- 
tached to the cord sways both perpenfiicularly and sideways with 
Serfect fi-eedom. In hardening them they are heated by b^ing 
rawn backwatds and forwards through an ordinary fee built 
hollow, and they are immersed in a trough of plain water. In tem- 
pering them they are heated until the black red is just visible at 









228 MACUINISTS; ENQINEERS, dtC, B1(CEIPTS. 

night ; by daylight the heat is denoted by its making a piece of 
wood sparkle when rubbed on the spring, which is then allowed 
to cool in the air. The metal is nine-sixteenths of an inch thick, 
and some consider five-eigths the limits to which steel will harden 
properly, that is sufhciently alike to serve as a spring. Their elas- 
ticity is tested far beyond tneir intended range. 

On Rubbkr Goods. — Ai many parties require to use rubber goods 
who are entirely ignorant of the cheap mixtures which are vended 
m larffe quantities, at enormous profits by manufacturers, I have 
thought proper in this place to irradiate the subject with a little 
"light" for the beneat of those whom '' it may concerUj" and 
accordingly present the formulae for compounding the different 
mixtures which enter into the composition of many articles sold 
quite extensively as pure rubber goods, but which, owing to largo 
'adulterations, in manv cases coat 75 per cent, less than the prices 
'charged for tnem. The first I shall pn unt is for : 
I LiQHT Buffer Spbinqb. — Grind together clear Java rubber. 26 lbs. : 
iPara rubber, 5 lbs. ; common magnesia, 10 lbs. ; pure sulphur 25 
[ozs. J This is brown at first, but in a few days turns grey or white, 
[and just sinks in water. Springs made from this compound, 4^ x 2^ 
z 1, press&d to half an inch, showed 3^ tons on the dial. 
\ Gret Packing for Marine Engines &o. — Grind together cleaned 
Java rubber, 5 lbs. ; Para rubber, 26 lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 16 lbs. ; 
carbonate of magnesia, 6 lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 3 lbs. ; 
'red lead, 2 lbs. : pure sulphur, 30 ozs. It may be proper to state 
jthat good purifiea Java rubber might be substituted by engineers 
iWith good eflfect for Para rubber in the above and some other com- 
positions. 

I Rag Packing for Valves, Bearing Springs &o. — This is made 
principally from the useless cuttings in the manufacture of India 
rubber coats, when the gum is run or spread on calico foundations. 
Proportions as follows : grind together useless scraps, 35 lbs. ; 
blacklead 18 lbs. ; Java gum, 16 lbs. ; yellow sulphur, 1 lb. 
I Composition for Suction Hose for Fire Engines^ Ac. — Grind to- 
'gether Java rubber, 20 lbs. ; Para do, 10 lbs. ; white lead, 14 lbs. ; 
red lead, 14 lbs. ; vellow sulphur, 1^ lbs. This is spread upon flax 
cloth which weighs 10, 16, and 32 ozs. to the square yard. 
^ Common Black Packing.— Grind together^ Java rubber, 16 lbs. ; 
Para do., 15 lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 16 lbs. ; China or Cornwall clay, 
15 lbs. ; yellow sulphur, 28 ozs. 

Common white Buffer Rings, &o. — Grind together Java rubber, 
30 lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 18 lbs. ; carbonate of magnesia, 6 lbs. ; 
clean chalk or whiting, 6 lbs. ; flour of sulphur, 2 lbs. 

Vulcanite, or Ebonite. — If the amount of sulphur added to the 
prepared rubber amounts to 10 per cent, and the operation of vul- 
canizing is performed in close vessels, at a temperature exceeding 
300, or the heat required for Vulcanizing India Rubber as des- 
cribed under that head, which see^ an article will be produced 
known as vulcanite, or ebonite. It is a black, hard, elastic sub- 
stance, resembling horn in its texture and appearance, and capable 
of taking a very high polish. It is of great use in the arts, and is 
largely mftQufACtured n>r making combs, door handles and hundreds 



!0. 

g a piece of 
ea allowed 
1 inch thick, 
will harden 
. Their elaa- 

ubber goods 
3 are vended 
irera, I have 
with a little 
ncern," and 
the different 
articles sold 
ving to large 
an the prices 

ibber.261bB.j 
e sulphur 25 
rey or white. 
iound,4i x 2J 
&1. 

ether cleaned 
zinc, 16 lbs. ; 
1 clay, 3 lbs. ; 
oper to state 
, by engineers 
me other com- 

This is made 
;ture of India 

foundations, 
ips, 35 lbs. ; 
, lib. 
c. — Grind to- 
lead, 14 lbs. ; 
!ad upon flax 

ard. 
fbber, 15 lbs. ; 
lornwall clay, 

Java rubber, 
(nesia, 6 lbs. ; 

added to the 
bation of vul- 
ire exceeding 
JBBER as des- 
[be produced 
elastic sub- 
L and capable 
|e arts, and is 

md hundreds 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, kC, REOEIPTS. 



229 



of articles hitherto made in ivory or bone. Its electrical properties 
also are very great. 

Bbst Purb opkinq, or Washvrh. — Grind together Para gum, 30 
lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 6 lbs. ; carb. magnesia, 2 lbs. ; common chalk, 
3 lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 2 lbs. ; pure sulphur, 30 oz. 

Companion Quality to abdvb.— Para ruboor. 30 lbs. ; oxide of 
zinc, 5 lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 5 Ids. ; pure sulphur, 
32 oz. 

" Hypo " Cloth for Watbrpboob* Coats. — Grind together clean 
Java gum. 30 lbs. ; lamp black, 5 Ibd. ; dry chalk or whiting, II 
lbs. ; sulphuret of lead, 5 lbs. This composition is applied to 
waterproof garments. 

Tkmpkrino Locomotive Tirbs. — This is quite ponderous work, as 
the tires of the eight foot wiieels weigh about 10 cwt. and consist of 
about one-third steel. The materials for the tires are first swaged se- 
parately, and then welded together under the heavy hammer at the 
steel works, after which they are bent to the circle, welded, and 
turned to certain gauges. The tire is now heated to redness in a cir- 
cular furnace ; during the time it is getting hot, tlie iron wheel, 
previously turned to the right diameter, is bolted down upon a 
face-plate, the tire expands with the heat, and when at a cherry red, 
it is dropped over the wheel, for which it was previously too small, 
and is also hastily bolted down to the surface plate. The whole 
load is quickly immersed by a swing crane into a tank of water 
about five feet deep, and hauled up and down until nearly cold : 
the steel tires are not afterwards tempered. The spokes are forged 
out of flat-bars with T formed heads, these are arranged radially 
in the founder's mould whilst the cast-iron centre is poured around 
them, the ends of the T heads are then welded together to consti- 
tute the periphery of the wheel or inner tire, and little wedge-form 
nieces are inserted where there is any deficiency of iron. The wheel 
IS then chucked on a lathe, bored and turned on the edge, not cy- 
lindrically, but like the meeting of two cones, and about one 
quarter of an inch higher in the middle than the two edges. The 
compound tire is turned to the corresponding form, and conse- 
quently, larger within or under cut, so that the shrinking secures 
the tire without the possibility of obliquity or derangement, and 
no rivets are required. It sometimes happens that the tire breaks 
in shrinking when by mismanagement the diameter of the wheel 
is in excess. 

MANUFAOTURiNa AND REPAIRING Anvils. — The commou anvil 



la 



usually made of seven pieces : 1, the core, or body ; 2, 3, 4, 5j the 
four corner pieces, which serve to enlarge its base; 6, the project- 
ing end, which has a square hole for the reception of the tail or 
shank of a chisel on which iron bars may be cut through, and 7, 
the beak, or horizontal cone, round which rods or slips of metal 
may be turned in a circular form, as in making rings. These 
six pieces are welded separately to the first or core, and then ham- 
mered into a unifbrm body. In manufticturinK large anvils two 
hearths are needed, in order to bring each of the two pieces to be 
welded to a proper heat by itself, and several men are employed in 
working them together briskly in the welding state, by heavy. 
swing hammers. The steel facing is applied by welding in the' 



m 



(230 JfAOHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C.y ItEGSlPtB. 



I 
I 

I 

i' ' 

I I 



|i I 






fiecme manner, polrdeiied boraix "With sal arttobtiiac (1 part to 10 
parts of borax) being used as a flujc. The anvil is ther neated to 
a cherry red, and plunged into cold water, a running stream being 
better than a pool or cistern, the rapid formation ot steam at the 
sides of ti^ metal preventing the free access of the waier for the 
removal of the heat with the required expedition. In some cases a 
stream of water is contrived to descend frc m a cistern abote on 
the part to be chilled, which is sure to render it very hard. The 
facing should not be too thick a plate, for when such, it is apt to 
crack in the hardening. It is somewhat dangerous to stand near 
such works at the time, as when the anvil face is not nerfectly 
welde<!, it someiimes, in part, flies off with great viol ,i« je and a 
loud report. In the case of broken anvils the repairs will have to 
be made in accordance with the above descriptim. In finishing 
off the face, it is smoothed upon a grindstone, and, for fine work, 
polished with emery and crocus. 

Hardbnino Axlbtbbbs and Boxes. — The method now used in 
the manufacture of Murphy's axletrees is to use wrought iron and 
weld two pieces of steel into the lower side, where they rest upon 
ihe wheels and sustain the load. The work is heated in an open 
forge fire, in the ordinary way, and when it is removed, a mixture, 
principally prussiate of potash is laid upon the steel ; the axle tree 
IS then immediately immersed in water, nnd additional water is 
allowed to fall upon it from a cistern. TIjj steel is considered to 
be very materially hardened by the treatment, and the iron around 
the same is also partially hardened. One very good way to chill 
axletree boxes is to monla from wooden patterns on sand, and cast 
them upon an iron core which has the effect of making them very 
hard. To form the annular recess for oil, a ring of sand, made in 
an appropriate core-box, is slipped upon the iron mandril, and is 
left behind when the latter is driven out of tho casting. 

To Purify Zinc. — Pure zinc may be obtained by precipitating its 
sulphate by an alkali, mixing the oxide thus produced with char- 
coal powder, and exposing the mixture to a bright rtd heat in a 
covered crucible in whch the pure metal will be found as a button 
at the bottom when cold. 

To Oalvanizi C AST-Iron through and through. — To 50 lbs. 
melted iron add 1 lb. pulverized zinc, chemically pure. Directions, 
scatter the zinc powder well over Jie ladle, then catch the iron ana 
pour at once. It is better, just before pouring, to stir the iron well, 
in order that a more complete union of the metals may take 
place. 

To Chill Oast Iron vert hard. — ^^Use a liquid made as follows : 
soft water, 10 gallons; salt, 1 peck ; oil vitriol, i-pt ; saltpetre, ^ lb. ; 
prussiate of potash, \ lb. ; cyanide of potash, f lb. Heat the iron a 
cherry red and dip as usual, aiid if wanted harder repeat the pro- 
cess. 

Another to harden Cast Iron.— Salt, 2 lbs.; saltpetre, Jib.: roche 
alum,^;lb.;ammonia,4ozs. salts of tartar, 4 ozs.j pulverize all toge- 
ther and incorporate throUghly, use by powdering all over the iron 
while it is hot, then plunging it in cold water. 

To hakb Borax. — Alum, 2 ozs. ; dilute with water ; and mix with 
2 OSS. potash, boil in a pot half an hour over a gentle nre, take it 



1 part to 10 
IE heated to 
bream being 
I team at the 
alerfor the 
ome case3 a 
n above on 
hard. The 
I, it is apt to 
) stand near 
r>t perfectly 
>1mi .je and a 
will have to 
In finishing 
r fine work, 

now used in 
ght iron and 
ey rest upon 
I in an open 
(d, a mixture, 
the axletree 
>nal water is 
considered to 
5 iron around 
. way to chill 
md, and cast 
ig them very 
and, made in 
andril, end is 
ig. 

icipitating its 
}d with char- 
red heat in a 
I as a button 

;. — To 50 lbs. 
Directions. 
L the iron and 
iron well, 
[als may take 

I as follows : 

^tpetre, ^ lb. ; 

the iron a 

jeat the pro- 

,Jlb.:roche 
rize all toge- 
jver the iron 

ind mix with 
fire, take it 



UAOBINtSTS, ENOlNl^ERS, acC, REOXi^TS. -231 

out of the water, add 2 ozs. gem salt In powder, nis much of alkal- 
ine salt lbs. honey, and 1 of cow|s milk, mix all together, set It 
in the sun for 3 days and the borax' id ready for use. This will go 
twice as far in a ol ksmith's shop as common bofax. 

Wbldino Cast Steel. — Silver sand 2 lbs. ^l^sfer of Paris, 1 lb. ; 
mix thoroughly. Heat your article and dust it with the above, {>la(i« 
it in the fire again until you get a re^ heat and it Will Weld. 

Respirator. — An excellent respirator may be m^de of a thick 
shoet of carded cotton wool placed between two j>ieces of muslin. 
Unequalled for arresting 4u3t, steel particles &c. 
Annealino Steel. — For small pieces of steel, ta'fi:e a pt^ce of gas 
pipe 2 or 3 inches in diameter, and put the pieces in it, first heat- 
ing one end of the pipe, arid drawing it together, leaving the other 
end open to look into. When the pieces are of a cherry redj Cover 
the fire with saw dust, ui^e a charcoal Qte, and leave the steel m over 
night. 

To DRILL HardbiJbp St|bbJl.— Tppver your steel with melted beedwaxj 
When coated andcoldmake a, note in the Wax with a fine pointed nee- 
die or other article the «»»2e ofhole you require, put a drop ^f strong 
picric acid upon it, ufter an hour rinse ofT, and apply again, <t will 
gradually eat through- i ,i, 

To Prevent Iron Rusting.— Give it; a coat of lihseed oU and 
whiting, mixed together Jn the fprm of ;^ p^ste. it is easily removed 
and will preserve iron from rusttng fpiTyeafs. 

To Oast Brass solid.— The metalshould not be'/i^u.ij anr hotter 
ihan is necessary to insuire sharp. castinjrs. The most probable cause 
of the honey combi'ngs of cattings is ihat'the air cannot get out 
of the way ; and there , ught to be proper vents made for it from 
the highest parts of the mould ; the ihetal shouM ban^n in near 
or at the bottom of th^ mould. If al^Out 1 lb. of lead be added to oveo 
ry 16 Ibs.Of old brass, ivh'jnjuLt :^. the melting point,s&lid good bras- 
ses will be the result, in melting old brass, the ?,incj oi.' lead, cono 
tained in it (when fluid) oxidizes freely, consequently the propor- 
tions of the metal are altei'^d, and rec^ulr: an addition cimilar to 
the above. If the brass has hot been, re-cast n littl^i ly^s lead will 
do, but if re-cast several times it may take the full quan'tiiy. 

To Rbcovbr phb Tin from Old BRitAf^NiA.- Melt the metal, and 
while hot sprinkle sulphur over it ; and stir it up for a short time, 
this burns the other metals out of the tin, which may then be usea 
for any purpose desired- 

Glub *or Labellino on Mbtals-^BoUiu^ water, 1 qt. jpi^lver- 
ized borax, 2 ozs. • gumsh6llac, 4 ozs. Boil till dissolved, tised for 
attaching labels to metals, or it will dO to write inscriptions With, 
and dust or dab on a little bronze poWder over it, varnishing over 
the bironze. 

Russia Sheet Iron.— Russia sheet iron is, in the first instance, 
a very pure artiplOj rend<>red exceedingly tough and flexible by 
refining ahd annealing. Its bright, glossy surface is pp,rtially '* 
silicate, and, partially an oxide or iron, and is produced oy passing 
the hot sheet, mpistened with a solution of wood-ashes, tnrcaga 
polish d teel rollers. 

Composite Iron Railinqs.— The process by which this light, 
elegant and cheap fabric is manufactured, is as follows : — Rods 



ii 



I'iffv'l 



232 1IA0HINIST8, ENOINEERS, ftC^'' RKCEIPTd. 

and bars of wronght-iron are cut to the lengths desired for the 
pattern, and subjected to a process called crimping, by which they 
are bent to the desired shape. These rods are then laia in the fon^. 
of the design, and cast-iron moulds are afiSxed at those points 
where a connection is desired ; the moulds are then filled with 
melted metal, and immediately you have a complete railing of 
beautiful design. Casting in iron moulds has this gre&t advantage 
over the old sand moulding, it does not require any time for cool- 
ing, as the metal is no sooner run than the moulds may be removed 
ana used again immediately on another section of the work ; and, 
besides, it is so much more easily effected. By the combination of 
wrought and cast-iron in this process, the most curious and com- 
plex designs may be produced with great rapidity and cheap- 
ness. 

Yon Bibra.'s Allot for Medals.— Bismuth, 27.27 parts ; lead, 
59.09 parts ; tin, 13.64 parts. If the cast objects be bitten with dilute 
nitric acid, washed with water, and rubbed with a woollen rag, the 
elevated spots become bright while the sunken portions are dull, 
and the casting acquires a dark gr?y appearance, with an antique 
lustre. Without biting, the color is lignt-gray. 

Naw SHBATHiNa Mbtal. — This alloy is made by melting 2i parts 
pf copper in one crucible, in another 9 parts of zinc, 87 of lead, 1 
part of mercury, and ^ part of bismuth, then mixing the contents 
of both crucibles, covering the surface with charcoal dust, and 
stirring well till all are incorporated. It is stated that the mer- 
cury in this allov protects both the zinc and copper from the action 
of sea- water. Tne contents of the crucible are run into ingots, and 
rolled into sheets. 

Iron Tubs Manufaotubb. — In the present method of manufac- 
turing the patent welded tube, the end of the skelp is bent to the 
circular form, its entire length is raised to the welding heat in an 
appropriate furnace, and, as it leaves the furnace almost at the 
point of the fusion, it is dragged by the chain of a draw-be^ch, 
after the manner of wire, through a pair of tongs with two bell- 
shaped jaws : these are opened at the time of introducing the end 
of a skelp, which is welded without the agency of a mandril. By 
this ingenious arrangement Wrought iron tubes may be m&de from 
the diameter of 6 inches internally and about 1-8 to 3-8 of an inch 
thick, to as small as 1-4 of an inch diameter and 1-10 bore, and so 
admirably is the joining effected in those of the best description 
that they will withstand the greatest pressure of water, steam or 

f^s to which they have been subjected, and they admit of being 
ent both in the heated and cold state, almost with impunity. 
Sometimes the tubes are made on'> upon the other when great 
tiiickness is required ; but those stout pipes, and those larger than 
3 inches, are but seldom required. The wrought iron tubes of hy- 
drostatic presses, which measure about ^ an inch internally, and ^ 
to 3-8 of an inch thick in the metal, are frequently subjected to a 
pressure of four tons on each square inch. 

Brass Tubes. — Brass or other tubes are formed of rolled metal 
which is cut to the desired width by means of revolving discs ; in 
the large sizes of tubes, the metal is partially curved in its length 
by means of a pair of rolls, when in this condition it is passed 



id for the 
rhich they 
1 the fon^. 
ose points 
filled with 
railing of 
advantage 
le for cool- 
te removed 
rork ; and, 
bination of 
3 and com- 
ind cheap- 

larts ; lead, 
with dilute 
lien rag, the 
ns are dull, 
I an antique 

ing 2* parts 
37 of lead, 1 
the contents 
Ell dust, and 
aat the mer- 
»m the action 
p ingots, and 



of manufac- 
s bent to the 
ig heat in an 
Imost at the 
draw-betich, 
ith two bell- 
ling the end 
landril. By 
.0 mft-de from 
1-8 of an inch 
bore, and so 
' description 
.or, steam or 
imit of being 
th impunity, 
when great 
I larger than 
tubes of hy- 
•nally, and i 
ibjected to a 

Irolled metal 

Ing discs ; in 

[in its length 

it is passed 



MAOKINISTS, INQINXSES, *0., BJlOJQIPXi. 233 

through a steel hole or a die, a plug being held in such a position 
as allows the metal to pass betwoen it and the interior of the hole. 
Oil is used to lubricate the metal^ the motion is communicated bv 
power, the drawing apparatus bemg a pair of huge nippers, which 
holds the brassj and is attached to a chain and revolves round a 
windlass or cylinder. The tube in its unsoldered state is annealed, 
bouud round at intervals of a few inches with iron wire, and solder 
and borax applied along the seam. The operation of soldering is 
completed by passing the tube through an air stove, heated with 
" cokes " or "breezes" which melts the solder, and unites the two 
eyes of the metal, and forms a perfect tube ; it is then immersed in 
a solution of sulphuric acid, to remove scaly deposits on its 8ur« 
face, the wire and extra solder having been previously removed : it 
is then drawn through a "finishing nolo plate" when the tubti is 
completed. 

Mandril drawn tubes are drawn upon a veij accurately turned 
steel mandril, by this means the internal diameter is rendered 
smooth. The tubes drawn by this process are well adapted for 
telescopes^ syringes, small pump cylinders, &c. The brass tubes 
for the boilers of locomotive engines are now made by casting and 
drawing without being soldered, and some of them are drawn tauer 
in their thickness. Tubes from 1-10 inch internal diameter and 3 
or ten inches long, up to those of two or three inches diameter and 
4 or 5 feet long, are drawn vertically by means of a stronsc chain 
wound on a barrel by wheels and pinions, as in crane. In Donkin's 
tube drawing machine, which is applicable to making tubes, or 
rather cylinders, for paper-making and other machinery, as large 
as 26J inches diameter, and QJ feet long, a vertical screw is used, 
the nut of which is turned round by toothed wheels driven by six 
men at a windlass. 

The fluted tubes of pencil cases are drawn through ornamental 
plates, with elevations and depressions corresponding to the impres« 
sions left on the tube. 

Damascus Twist and Stub-Twist Gun-Barrbls.— The twisted 
barrels are made out of long ribbands of iron, wound spirally 
around a mandril, and weldea on their edges by jumping them on 
the ground, or rather on an anvil embedded therein. The plain 
stub Darrels are made in this manner, from iron manufactured from 
a bundle of stub-nails, welded together, and drawn out into rib- 
bands, to insure the possession of a material most thoroughly and 
intimately worked. The Damascus barrels are made from a mix* 
ture of stub-nails and clippings of steel in given proportions, pud- 
dled together, made into a bloom, and subsequently passed through 
all the stages of the manufactuve of iron, in order to obtain an iron 
that sha^l be of an unequal quality and hardness, and therefore 
display different colors and markings when oxidized or browned. 
Other twisted barrels are made in the like manner, except that the 
bars to form the ribbands aro twisted whilst rea hot, like ropes, 
some to the right, others to the left, and which are sometimes lami^ 
nated togeiuer for greater diversity. They are subsequently again 
drawn into the ribbands and wound upon the mandril, and fre< 
quently two or three differently prepared pieces are placed side by 
Sid* to form the complex c.ad ornamental ngures for the barrels of 



^a. 



■if. 

I 






254^!^ MACHINIStS,' EiiaiNEERS," &C.~ REOEIPTSi^ 



I I 



rowlinff-pieces, described as stub-twist, wire-twist, Damaseut-twistf^ 
Ac. Sometimes Damascus gun-barrels ate formed by arranging 
twenty-five thin bars of iron and mild steel in alternate layers, 
welding the whole together, drawing it down small, twisting it 
like a rope, and again welding three such ropes, for the formation 
of the ribband, which is then spirally twisted to form a barrel, that 
exhibits, when finished and acted upon by acids, a diversified, 
laminated appearance, resembling, when properly managed, an 
ostrich feather. 

MANUFAOTURma OHiPvs. — For this purpose the iron is cut oflP 
with a plain chamfer, ?.s from the annular form of the links their 
extremities cannot sliia asunder when struck. Every succeeding 
link is bent, introduced, and finally welded. In some of these 
Welded chains the links are no more than ^ an inch long, and 
Ithe iron wire ^ inch diameter. These are made with grt at dexterity 
by a man and a boy, at a stnall fire. The curbed chams are welded 
In the ordinary way and twisted afterwards, a few links being 
Imade red-hot at a time for the purpose. The massive cable chains 
are made mucb in the same manner, although partly by aid of 
Imachinery. The bar of iron, now one, one and a half, or even 
[two inches in diameter, is heated, and the scarf is made as a plain 
Iphamfer, by a cutting uachine ; the link is then formed Inr insert- 
ing the edge of the heated bar within a loop in the edge of an oval 
^isk, which may be compared to a chuck fi^^ed on the end of a 
lathe mandril. The disk is put in gear«by the steam engine: it 
makes exactly one revolution and throws itself put of motion. This 
bends the heated extremity of the iron into an oval figure. After- 
wards it is detached from the rod with a chamfered cut by the cut- 
ting machine, which, at one stroke, makes the second scarf of tqe 
detached link, and tne first of that next to be curled up. The link 
IS now threaded to the extremity of the chain, closed together and 
transferred to the fire, the loose end being carried by a traverse 
(srane. When the link is at the proper heat, it is ret^rned to tlie 
anvil, welded, and dressed oflf between top and bottom tools, after 
Iwhich the cast iron transverse stay is inserted, and the link having 
been closed upon the stay, the routine is recommenced. The work 
commonly requires three nien, and the scarf is placed at the side 
*of the oval link^ and fiat way through the same. In similar chains 
made by hand it is, perhaps, more customary to weld the link at 
the crown, qr small end. 

Button Manupacturb. — Metal buttons are formed of an inferior 
kind of brass, pewter, or other metallic compositions. For button 
metal, see a variety of alloys on pages ] 91 and 193. Buttons with 
shanks are usually made of these compositions, which is supplied 
to the manufacturers in sheets of the required thickness. By means 
of fly presses and punches, circular disks called blanks, are cut out 
of these sheets. This is mostly performed by females, who can 
furnish about 30 blanks per minute, or 12 gross per hour. Hand 
punching is the general mode of cutting oat blanks, but more 
complicated machines, which cut out 8 or 10 blanks at a time, are 
in use. After being punched, the edges of the blanks are very 
sharp, and require to be smoothed and rounded. Their surfaces 
are tnen planished on the face by placing them separately in a die 



8i, 

taseiU'ttoistf^ 
f arranging 
aate layers, 
twisting it 
le fonnation 
, barrel, that 
diversified, 
lanaged, an 

n is cut oflP 
e links their 
J succeeding 
)me of these 
oh long, and 
fcat dexterity 
LS are welded 
links being 
, cable chains 
tly by aid of 
half, or even 
kde as a plain 
led by insert- 
Ige of an oval 
the end of a 
am engine: it 
f motion. Thia 
igure. After- 
;ut by the cut- 
id scarf of tue 
up. The link 
together and 
by a traverse 
(turned to the 
im tools, aftar 
link having 
>d. The work 
[ed at the side 
iimilar chains 
Id the link at 

I of an Inferior 

. For button 

Buttons with 

Ich is suppl'.ed 
ess. By means 
fc«, are cut out 
kles, who can 
[hour. Hand 
Iks, but more 
lata time, are 
Lnka are very 
Heir surfaces 
tately in a die 



.SUGOUfXiTS XNaiNBERg, ftO., BSOEIPTS. 235 

under a small statL/i, ahd allowing them to receive a smart blow 
from a polished steel hammer. In this state they nre ready to 
receive the shanks or small metal loops by r;hioh tlwy ir«^ attached 
to the dress. They ore made by a m&chine in ']vl ich a coil of wire 
is gradually advanced towards a pair of shears which cuts off short 
pieces. A metal finger then presses cgainct the middle of oach 
piece^ first bending it and then pressiwg it iiito a vice, when it sc 
compressed so as to form a loop \ a hammer then strikes the two 
ends, spreading them into a dat surface, and the shank is pushed 
out of the machine ready for use. The shc^uks are attached to the 
blanks by women, with iron '.vire, solder and rosin. They are then 
put into an oven, andj when firmly united, f^nr plain buttons. If 
a crest or inscription ?.3 wanted, it is placed m a die and stamped. 
Buttons are gilded by gold cjnalgam, by being put into an earthen 
pan with the proper quantity of gold to cover them, amalgamated 
with mercury in the folloTV -ng manner : the ^jold is put into an 
iron ladle in thin strips, and a email quantity of mercury, say 1 
part of mercury to 8 of gold, added to it, the ladle is held over 
the fire till the gold and mercurv are perfectly united. This amal- 
gam being put into the pan with the buttoiis, r^s much aquafortis, 
diluted with water, as vill wet them all over, ia thrown in, ana 
they are stined up with a brush till the acid, by its affinity to the 
copper in the buttons, carries < je amalgam to every part of their 
Burmce, giving it the appearance of silver ; this done, the acid is 
washed away with clean water. This is called the guicking pro- 
cess. In drying off, the pan of buttons is heated by a charcoal fire 
expelling the mercury in the form of a vapor, which, under the 
improved syfftem, is conducted into an oblong iron flue or gallery, 

gently sloped downwards, having at its ond a smell rortical tube 
ipped into a ;vater cistern, for condensing the mercurjr^ and a 
large vertical pipe for promoting the draught of the products of 
the combustion. The gold thus deposited in an cxcoedinjarly thin 
film upon the buttons, presents a dull yellow color, and must now 
be burnished ; this is enected by a piece of hematitos, or bloodstone, 
fixed on a handle and applied to the button, as it revolves in the 
]athe. 

OuTLBBY Manufacture. — There are three kinds of cteel employed 
in manafacture of diflferent articles of cutlery, common steel, shear 
steel, and cast steel. All edge tools which require to be tenacious 
without being very hard, are made of shear steel. The best scicaors, 
razors, penknives, Ac, are made from cast steel, which is able to 
take a very ^ue polish, common steel is only used in making cheap 
arrjcles of cutlery. In making good table-Knives, Bheaii ate^ and 
cas\ steel are generally preferred. Iir the ordinary method o; mak- 
ing knives, ibebiadeE arc cut out of a sheet of stetl. and the backs, 
shou dera 8,ic;d tan^s o:' wrought iron, are attached to the steel 
blrj.c by w Idini? a* the forge. The hnife is then ground to the 
prore: ahape, and the blade polished and hardened. The fork 
manufactur is a distmc* branch oi industry, and the manufactiirerc; 
01 latA knives ^qeneraJly buy their forks from the tork makers 
reaoy ic be ru+ into their handlOB. In making table knives, tv.'c 
men a; e generall.y employed ; oue it called the fonmnn, or maker, 
WAQ the oihei the stnkei. Penknives are usually forged by a single 



I- • 

i. ,) 



236f MACHINISTS,! £NGIN££RS, icC, RECEIPTS. 



hand,, with hammer and anvil simply ] they are hardened by heat^ 
ing the blad'6s red-hot, and dipping them i».to water up to the 
shoulder. Razors are also hardened in the same manner. The 
grinding an^ polishing of cutlery are generally performed by ma- 
chinery^ the business of the grinders is divided into grinding, 
glazing ai^d polishing. Grinding is performed upon stones of va- 
rious dimensions. Those articles which require temper being ground 
on wet stones. ISlazing is a process by which lustre is given to 
cutlefy ; It is perforqcieq with a glazier, consisting of a circular 
piece or wood, sometimes covered with leather, or an alloy of lead 
and tin j it is .fixed op an axis like a grindstone. The polishing pro- 
cess is iw last, and is performed on a similar piece of wood cover- 
ed with buff leather. Only articles of cast steel which have been 
hai:dened and tempered iare subjected to this operation. 

Damassebkinq. — This is the art, now in a great measure lost, of 
producing a watered ot vr&vV appearance oa steel sword-blaaeSj 
armour, &c., or of inlaying ana encrusting steel with gold and silver," 
originally practised at Damascus. Various methods of damaskeen- 
ing were practised, but the most common seem to havd been those 
of welding two different kinds of steel, or steel and iron, together, 
or Of cutting lines on the surface of the steel and filling them with 
gold or silver, which was either forced into the incised lines and 
brought to a level with the surface of the steel, or remained in 
relief above it. When the former method was used, a light pattern,' 
generally in many lines, was produced on a dark ground, or vice' 
versa, and the junction of the metals caused the pattern to run 
through the entire thicknesfi of the blade, so that it could not be 
obliterated even by grinding. 

I)iB Sinking. When a die is required for a coin or medals, the| 
engraver t^kes apiece of soft steel of suitable dimensions, generally| 
3 or 4 inches in length, and about an inch greater in diameter, 
than the coin or other article re(][uired, on this he hollows but the' 
exact form of the desire^ impression by cutting away the steel by, 
degrees, with small, well-tempered, case-hardened tools. As soon as 
this work is thoroughly accoinplished the steel is hardened by being 
heated red-hot in a crucible with charcoal and oil or bone-dust, and 
then plunged into cold water. When a great number of coins of one 
sort are required, the original die is termed the matrix, and copies 
are made from it by taking impressions from it in soft steel, wnich 
is in relief, and is called the puncheon, and from which, when it 
has been hardened, other dies are produced by pressure exactly 
similar to the matrix, and iu intaglio, which are case-hardened in 
their turn before they are fit to transmit an impression to any 
metal used for money. The metal used for our coinage, whether 
gold, silver, copper, or bronze is stamped in a Cold and solid state ; 
but medals and casts can also be produced by a method called 
casting en cliche, in which the metal is used in a soft state. For 
this purpose an alloy is used, consisting of i lead, i tin, and ^ 
bismuth, which fuses readily at the boiling point, 212° Fah. When 
the metal is soft, resembling paste in consistency, the die is placed 
upon it, and the impression produced by a smart blow rrom a 
mallet ; the surface of the metal sets instantly, from coming into 
^^gntact with the cold die, and thus readily retains the form that 



MAOHINISyS, ENGINEERS, 40., RECEIPTS.^ 237 

has been given to it. Gppji^s of ijfiQdals m^ be leadily made in this 
way, but each face will be obtained In 4 separate piece, and these 
must be joined to giveFepirjiS^atationsi.of the Cja|i^ in a complete 
form.. Onamenta,! work is prodi;iced in thjn metal fo^ sasntting, 
cornices, parts of cruet-^tanda, ,trajra, &c., by mealjia of a pair of 
dies,OQoneof which the pattern 18 forpaed in relijef, an4 on the. other 
in intaglio, thie n^tal being placed between them, and brought into 
the deairea shape by pressure, i^ies 4j:e also mj^de in metal for 
forming articles in gutta>-percha and lather, and producing 
embossed .figures on the oloth covers 0^ bq^ks, as well .as on card- 
board, paper, &o. f ,1 

Stsklplatb ENaBAYiMO. As T^gards steelpl&te engrayuag it hag 
proved immensely superior to the c^d bopperplate system. A soft 
steelplate is .first engraved with^he required ^abject in the moat 
finished style of art, either by hand or mechanically, or the two com- 
bined, and the plate is^thpp hardened; ,a ^f^neq Sfteel cylinder is 
then rolled over the hardened plate, with great jprpssure by powerful 
machinery, uutil the engraved impression appears in relief, — the 
hollow lines of the original becoming ridges upon the cylinder, 
the roller is re-converted to the condition of ordinary steel, and 
hardened, after which it serves for returning the impression to any . 
number of decarbonized plates, every one qf which becomes abso- 
lutely a Cu^.iterpart of the original, and every plate, when hardened, 
would yield the enormous number of 150,000 impressions, without 
any perceptible difference between the first and the last. In one 
insta-ice, from one engraving of the Queen's head on the postage 
stamp, over 6000 plates were produced ifrbm tpe original, and 
plates for bank-note printing are multiplied in the same way. Great 
caution must be used in the various processes of annealijig and hard- 
ening, as only slight carelessness would result in ruining the mo^t 
costly plates. The method in, use in the bank of England is as 
follows : the work to bo hard,ene4 is enclosed ina WTought<-lronbox 
with a loose cover^ a false bQttopa, and with three ears projecting 
from its sur&ce about midway; the steel is sur^oupdedonall sidi)R 
with carbon from leather, diiiven in hard, andtheco^erand.bottooi^ 
are carefully luted with moist clav, thus prepared^ the case is placed 
in the vertical position, in a bridge ^xed across a great tub, which 
is then filled with water almost iq touch the fiat bottom of the case; 
the latter is now heated in the furnace asquick^'' ; ' ap.ow the 
uniform penetration of the heat. When sufficient , jaj^iiij.- t> aoved 
to its place in the hardening tub, the cover 01 uhd iron ooxis 
removed, and the neck or gudgeon of the cy^nider is grasped, 
beneath the surface qf the c^on, with a long pair of tongs, upon 
which a couplet is dropped to secure thbigrasp. It only remains for 
the individual to hold the tongs with a gioye whilst a smart tap of 
the hammer is given to their extremity ; this knocks out the false 
bottom of the qase and tije cvlinder, and the tongs prevent the 
cylinder from falling on its side, and thus injunog ita aelicate but 
still hot surface. For square pltvtes, a suitable frame is attached by 
four slight clawa, and it is the frame which is seized by the tongs : 
the latter are sometimes held by a chain which removes the risk or 
accident to the individual. The steel comes out of the water 9^ 



m 

■ J' 
lifi 

li; 



238 MACHINISTS, ENaiNEERS, &0., BEOEIPTS. 

smooth to the touch m at first, and mottled vrith all the beautifal 
tiots of case-hardenod gun-locks. 

On File MANcrAOTUBB. — Files are made of bars of steel, rendered 
doubly hard by a process called double eonveraion, dravtra the 
required size at the tilt hammer, and then shaped, the square and 
fiat ones bv the hammer and common anvil onlj, but those of 
round, half-round, and three-angled forms, by means of bosses and 
dies made in the abo\ t) shapes, wtiichfit into a groove left for them 
in the anvil, '^be stc^l blanlcs having been thus formed, are next 
annealed^ or i v i to render them capable of being cut, by 
placing a numL of : a xn together in a brick oven, rendered air- 
tight by filling \x\ M the , "*; rstices with sand (to prevent the oxida- 
tion of the steel, to which ^ is very liable, if air be admitted), and 
then making a fire play as equally as possible all round until they 
are red hot, when the heat is discontinued, and the steel allowed to 
cool gradually before it is uncovered. The surface to contain the 
teeth is now rendered as smooth as possible by grinding or filling; 
the teeth are then cut with a carefully ground cnisel, each incision 
being made separately. The next and last process, that f harden- 
ing, is peiformed in various ways by different makers, the ordinary 
meihoa, however, is to cover the files with a kind of compo<)itioa 
or protecting varnish to prevent oxidation and scalding of the 
steel when heated ; and, lastly, they ate plunged in cold, fresh 
water to cool them as quickly as possible. Some file -makers coat 
,their files, before tempering, with a composition of cow-dung or 
pig-flour, which not only protects the sharp angles of the cutimgs 
from the action of the fire, but furnish a highly azotized substance, 
jwhich conduces ereatly to still further harden and steelify the 
^nished work. I know several file manufacturers who make use 
of a bath of melted lead for tempering purposes. The files are first 
coated with a greasy composition to prevent any oxide adhering, 
'then introduce for a short time into melted lead, or the '-metallic 
fcath" as it is called, and then plunged into the tempering liquid. 
EThe melted lead may be kept covered with charcoal, or other 
suitable ingredient, to prevent oxidation. In some manufactories 
ja' charcoal fire is kept ouming on the surface of the melted lead. 

''PiiM Max?mg. — Pens should oe made of the best steel that can be 
got, as peculiar elasticity is reouired in them, which could not bo 
^obtained if poor steel were usea. The steel is cut into slips some 3 
feet long and 4 inches broad; these slips are then plunged into a pickle 
m diluted suljphuric acid so as to remove the scales from the 
lurface ; next it is passed between heavy rollers by which it is 
' luced to the thickness required, and made fit to undergo the first 

rocess in pen making. This is performed by a girl, who, seated 
at a stamping-press provided with a bed and corresponding puncli, 
sp'eedily cuts out the blank, which is perfectly fiat. The next step 
is to perforate the hole which terminates the slit, and to remove any 
snperauous steel which might interfere with tne elasticity of the 
pen. The embryo pens are then annealed in a mutfie, and the 
maker's name stamped upon them. The pens are next transferred 
to another class of workmen, who, by means of a press, either make 
the pens concave, if they are merely to be nibs, or, if they are to be 
fcwvrrel penq, they roll the barrel toccetl^er. %\iQ next procgflSJS 



! ' r 



►TS. 

the beautiful 

;eel , rendered 
I, drav^a the 
le square aad 
but those of 
of bosses and 
D left for them 
ned, are next 
)eiag cut, by 
rendered air- 
rent the oxida- 
.dmitted), and 
ind until they 
eel allowed to 
to contain the 
ingor filling; 
,, each incision 
hat fharden- 
s, the ordinary 
if composition 
aiding of the 
in cold, fresh 
le -makers coat 
f cow-dun^ or 
of the cutungs 
ized substance, 
id steel if y the 
who make use 
le files are first 
Ide adhering, 
the " metallic 
pering liquid. 
|coal, or otlier 
manufaotoriei 
melted lead, 
lel that can be 
Ih could not bo 
to slips some 3 
|ed into a pickle 
ales from the 
fey which it is 
[dergo the first 
rt, who, seated 
[onding punch, 
The next step 
jto remove any 
asticity of the 
uffle, aad the 
!Xt transferred 
13, either make 
they are to be 
ext procgflsi^ 



Machinists, 'engineers, &o., receipts. 239 

termed the hardeninff^ and consists in placing a number of pens in 
an iron box which is mtroduced into a muffle. After they become 
of a deep red heat they are plunged into a tank of oil, and, when 
they get cool, the adhering oil is remored by agitation in circular 
tin barrels ; tempering is the next step, by heating to the necessary 
elasticity in a warm bath of oil: and, finally, the whole number of 
pens are placed in a revolving cylinder along with sand, ground cru- 
cible, and other cutting substances, which tends to brignten them up 
to the natural color of the steel ; next the nib is ground down finely, 
with great rapidity, by a girl, who picks it up with a pair of pliers, 
and, with a single touch on an emery revolving wheel, perfects it at 
once. The sht is now made by means of a press. A chisil, or wedge, 
with a flat side, is affixed to the bed of the press, and the descend- 
ing screw has a corresponding chisel-cutter, which passing down 
with the greatest accuracy on the pen, which bad been placed o*" 
the chisel affixed to the bed, and the slit is made and the pen com^ 
plete. They are next colored brown or blue, by placing them in a 
revolving metal cyimder, under which is a onarooal stove, and. by 
watching narrowly the different gradation of color, the requisite 
tint is speedily attained ; a brilliant polish is subsequently imparled 
by immersing the pens in lac dissolved in naptha ; they are v .;n 
dried, counted, selected and placed in boxes for sale. 

Gold Pens. — Gold pens are made much in the same manner as 
steel, with this important difference, that, as they cannot be tem- 
pered in the same way that steel is, the necessary elasticity is 
imparted to them by hammering, and bv rubbing them with a 
small hard stone and water, instead of the tempering, &c., in oil. 
As gold is too soft of itself to make a durable pen, it is found 
necessary to attach a minute portion of an alloy of iridium and 
osmium, by soldering to the tips. This makes an extremely hard 
and durable point. 

On Nbedlb Manittaotubi, TaurasiNO, &o. — This small but im- 
portant implement has to go through the hands of about 120 
workmen during the process of manufacture. The steel wire, being 
drawn to the proper size, is submitted to various tests to ascertain 
its quality, and is then cut into proper lengths by shears, which, by 
striking 21 blows in a minute, cut m 10 hours fully 400,000 ends of 
steel wire, which produce about 800,000 needles. These are passed 
on for further manipulation to other workmen, who straighten and 
point the pieces of wire. After pointing they are cut in two, so as to 
form two separate needles of equal length and quality. For each dif- 
ferent size a small copper plate is employed. It is nearly square, and 
has a turned-up edge on two of its sides, the one is intended to re- 
ceive all the points, while the other resists the pressure of the shears. 
On this plate a certain number of wire are put with their points in 
contact with the border, and they are cut together fludh with the 
plate, by means of a small pair of shears moved by the knee of the 
workman. These even wires are now taken to the headflattener. 
This workman, seated over a table with a block of steel before him 
about 3 inches cube, takes up from 20 to 25 needles between^ his 
finder and thumb, spreading them out like a fan, with the points 
under the thumb, he lays the heads on the steel block, and, with.a 
small flat-facid hammer strikes a few successive blows upon theiq. 



240 llAOfllNlSTS, ♦BWOMlUftS, 'AO., 'RECEIt'l'il. 



If % 



BO as to flatten th«m in 
hardened by hammering 



an iniitant. The heads, having becorap 
are now annealed by heating and slow 



codling, and aw handea to the j>te;<-C(?»*, generally a child, who 
forma tmeye in a eeeobd by lanng the head \inbn a block of steel, 
and by driving a small iptrtch thrwgh one siae tvith a smart tap 
of the hammer, and then exacftly oppogite on the other. The eyes 
ar6 then trinimed by driving the pundh through them again on a 
Inmp of lead and,'«fter laving thd needle with the pimiih sticking 
throngh it, upon the bto*K (rf steel, hammering the head on the 
sides, which "causes it Ito take the rorm of the punch. The next 
operator makes th* groote at the eye and i*ounds the head, 
which he does -v^th a imall file. The needier, being thns pre- 
Ipared, ate thrown by the workmen pell-mell into a sort of drum 
or box, in Which they are made to arrange themselves in parallel 
lines by Paeans of h few dexterous shfekes of' the workiniin's iirm. 
They ari no'w ready to be tempered, for Which purpose they are 
raneed on Bheet-lron plates, about 30 lbs. wei|^t'fet a tJme, con- 
tainmg from 250,000 to 500,00* needles, ahd are plaiced in a proper 
furnace, when they are' heated to a bright redness for the larger 
needlesy and to a less intense degtee for *he smaller , they are then 
removed, and Inverted suddenly oter a bath of cold Vater in such 
a way that all ithe needles m^y hb inirae^sed at the same time, yet 
separate ftoth each other. This hasi the efltect of making them very 
hard and brittlte. The Watet^ being run off, the ne<;dle3 are removed 
for ftirther operations. Some manufacturers b6at the needles by 
means of innriftiiaion in melted lead, others throw them into a pan 
along With a quantity of gi*ease, which, being placed on the fire, the 
oily matter soOa ignites, and after it burns out, the needles are 
fdund to be in the proper teifaperj tbos& whi*h are twisted in the 
tempering bwng afterwtods straightened by the hammer on the 

*nvii- 

Polithihff ft the next and taost expensive and pi'olonged operation. 
Thisiseff'ectedonbtlbdles containing 500^000 needles intermixed with 
quartzoze sand, and a little rfiipC'-seed oil. Thirty of those bundles 
are expoiie«t to the vibratory jiressure of wooden tables, which make 
about feo horizontal double movements per minute, causing the 
bundles to run over 2 feet each time, or 800 feet per hour. This 
agitation is kept up about 18 or 20 hours, causing such a move- 
ment and attrition as to polish the needles m the bags or bundles. 
They are then retaioved ftoxa. the packets into wooden bowls and 
mixed with sawdust to remove the grease and other impuritieSj 
jylaced in a cask, which is turned by a winch ; more sawdust is 
introduced as required, and the turhing iJS continued until the 
needles become clean and bright. They are then winnowed by a 
fan to clean tbem from the sawdust and refuse matter, and are 
subsequently arranged' in regular order on a small, somewhat con- 
cave, iron tray. The operation of making up the rolls or bags, 
polisning, winnowing and arranging them,Tiave to be repeated ten 
times on the best n6edle9. It is found that emery powder mixed 
with quarts and mica or pounded granite is preferable to anything 
else for polishing needles by friction in the bags at the first, emery 
mixed with olive oil, from the second to the seventh operation, 
putty, or oxid« of tin for the eight and ninth, putty with verjF little 



PTS. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, REOElPrS. ^ili 



aving beconiP 
,ing and slow 

A child, who 
block or steel, 
h a smart tap 
[er. The eyes 
m again on a 
>un(in sticking 
I head on the 
ah. The next 
nds the head, 
iiilg thna pre- 
i sort of drum 
vea in parallel 
orkrniin'3 ferra. 
rpose they are 
tt a t?me, coa- 
jed ill a proper 

for the larger 
; they are then 

Water in such 
same time, yet 
:ing them very 
es are removed 
the needles by 
hem into a pan 

on the fire, the 
le needles are 

twisted in the 
ammer on the 

red. operation, 
termixedwith 
those bundles 
Which make 
causing the 
er hour. This 
. such a move- 
rs or bundles, 
en bowls and 
ler impuritieSf 
)re sawdust is 
ued until the 
t^innowed by a 
atter, and are 
omewhat con- 
rolls or bags, 
le repeated ten 
powder mixed 
e to anything 
he first, emery 
ith operation, 
rith very little 



oil for the tenth, and lastly bran to gi ve a finish. Tn thla mode of oper- 
ating, the needles are scoured in a copper cask studded in the inte- 
rior with raised points to iVicreasc? the mction and a (quantity of hot 
floap ::ud8 is introduced occasionally to keep them clean. The 
cask must be slowly turned upon its axis t'&t fear of injuring the 
mass of needles it contains. They are tinallr dried in the wooden 
cask by attrition with saw dust, then wiped with a Hnen rag or 
soft leather— the damaged ones heitt^ throwa aside. The sorting 
is performed in drv appartments, where all- the pol-ita are first laid 
the same way, ana the needles arranged in the order of their polish 
with great tepidity. The workman places 2090 or 3000 needles 
in an iron ring two fnches in dfiameier, and sits all their heads in 
one plane, theft, on looking careftilly at iheir points, he easily re- 
cognizes the broken ones and removes them with art instrument 
adapted for tne purpose. These defective needles pa3S into the 
hands of thd vointer m drder to be ground ag^iti, When they form 
articles of inferior value. Those needles bent m the polishing must 
now be straightened, and the whole are finally arranged oy the 
tact of the finger and thumb of the sorter, and weighs! out into 
quantities for packing into blue papers. The bluer puts the final 
touch to them by takmg 25 needles Jit a time between nis fore-finger 
and thumb, and pressing their points against a small hone-stone 
of compact micaceous sch\st, auadraiijjfular in form, mounted in a 
small lathe, turning them briskly rouhd, giving the 'points a bluish 
cast, while he nolisnes and improves them. 

Balancb Spriitqs of OHROKOMBtBRS.-— The balance springs of 
marine chronometers, which are in thd form of a screw, are wound 
into the square thread of a screw of the appropriate diameter and 
coarseness ; the two endsof the spring are retained by side 8crews,and 
the whole is carefully enveloped in platiniim foil, and'lightlybouild 
with wire. The malgs is next neated in a piece of gun barrel closed 
at one end, ailrd plunged into oil, #hich hardens the spring almost 
without discolouring It, owing to the exdUsion of tne air by the 
close platinum covering, whicn is now i^moved, and the spring is 
let down to the blue before removal from the screwed block. The 
balance or hair 6]^ring of common watclies are frequfently* left soft, 
those of the best witches are hardened in the coil upon a plain cy- 
linder and are then curled into the spiral form between the edge 
of a blunt knife 6,nd the thumb, the Same as in Curling up a nar- 
row ribbon or paper, or the filaments of an ostrich feather. The 
soft springs are worth 60 cents each, those hardened and tempered 
$1.26 each. This raises the value of the steel, originally lesj than 
4 cents, to $2000 and $800b Tespectirely. It takes 3200 balance 
springs to weigh an ounce. 

"Watoh ypRiNG Manufacture. — Watch springs are hammered 
out of round stdel wire, of suitaMe diameter until they fill the gauge, 
for width. Which at the same time insures equality of thickness. 
The holes are punched in their extremifies, and 'they are trimmed 
on the edge with a smooth file. The springs are then tied up with 
binding wire, in a loose open coil and heated over a charcoal fire 
upon a perforated revolving plate. They are hardened in oil and bla- 
zed oflFTThe spring is now distended in a long metal frame, similar to 
that used for a saw blade, and ground and polished with emery and 



Hi MAOBINISM, INOINIIBti, *0'., 'REOSIftar 



w 



oil between lead blocks. B7 this time its elasticitj a|)pearfl quite lost, 
and it may be bent in any direcMon ; its elasticitj is.nowevcr, 
entirely restored by a subsequent hammering on a very briffht an- 
ril which puts the " nature into tht $prinff." The coloring Is done 
oyer a flat plate of iron, or hood, unaer which a small spirit lamp 
is kept burning ; the spring is continually drawn backward and 
forward, about two or three Inches at a time, until it assumes the 
oranffe or deep blue tint throu|fhoat, according to the taste of the 
purchaser. By many the coloring is considerea to be a matter of 
ornament and not essential. The last process is to coil the spring 
into the spiral form, that it may enter tne barrel in which it is to 
be contained. This is done by a tool with a small axis and winch 
handles, and does not require heat. 

GoMPBNBATioN BAiiANCs OF Ohronomiitirs.— The balance is a 
small piece of steel covered with a hoop of brass. The rim, consist- 
ing of the two metals, is dirided at the two extremities the one dia- 
metrical arm of the balance, so that the increase of temperature 
which weakens the balance springs contract, in a proportionate de- 
gree, the diameter of the balance, leaving the spring less resistance to 
overcome. This occurs from tne brass expanding much more by 
heat than steel, audit therfore curls the semicircular arci inwards, 
an action that will be immediately understood, if we conceive the 
compound bar of steel to be straight, as the heat would render the 
brass side longer and convex,and in the balance it renders it more cur- 
ved. In the compensation balance the two metals are united as fol- 
lows : the^isk of ste<^ when turned and pierced with a central hole is 
fixed by a little screw-bolt and nut at the bottom of a small cru- 
cible, with a central elevation smaller than the disk ; the brass is 
now melted and the whole allowed to cool. The crucible is broken, 
the excess of brass is turned off in the lathe, the arms are 
made with the file as usual, the rim is tapped to receive the com- 
pensation screws or weights, and, lastly, the hoop is divided in two 
places at the opposite ends of its diametrical arm. 

Tabular Yiuw or thb Proobssbs of Solderinq. — Hard solder- 
ing. The hard solders most commonly used are the spelter solders, 
and silver solders. The general flux is borax, marked A, on the 
table, and the modes of heatine are the naJ-ed fire, the furnace or 
mufBe, and the blow pipe, mailed a, b, g, applicable to nearly all 
metals less fusible than tne solders ; the modes of treatment are 
nearly similar throu^out. Note. — The examples commence with 
the solders (the leasl fusible first) followed dV the netala for 
which they are commonly employed. Fine gold, laminated and 
cut into shreds, is used as the solder for joining chemical vessels 
made of platinum. Silver is h^ many considered as much the best 
solder for (German silver, for silver solders, see pages 153 and 154. 
Copper cut in shreds, is sometimes similarly usea for iron Gold 
solders laminated are used for gold alloys, see 153 and 154. Spelt- 
er solders, granulated whilst hot. are used for Iron, copper, brasa 
gun metals, German silver, Ac. see 189. Silver solders, laminated 
are employed for all silver works and for common gold work, also 
for German silver, gilding metal, iron, cteel, brass, gun metal, &c., 
when greater neatness is required than is obtained from sp«ltec 
solder. » ^ 



quite lost, 
however, 
bright an- 
ig 19 done 
purit lamp 
iward and 
ssumes the 
ASte of the 
matter of 
the spring 
ich it is to 
aad winch 

lance is a 
im, coDslst- 
the one dia- 
emperature 
rtionate de- 
esistance to 
Lch more by 
•ci inwards, 
;onceive the 
] render the 
( it more cur- 
nited as fol- 
sntralholeia 
Bmall cru- 
the brass is 
.e is broken, 
I arms are 
e the com- 
ided in two 



MAOitMlSTS, EiTaiNEElBTlkO.pttllOEiPTS. <213 

t 

White or button sold.rfl, g^an^lated, are employod for the white 
alloys called button metals ; they were iutroduced as cheap substi- 
tutes for silver solder. 

Hard Soldering. Applicable to nearly all thcmotals ; the modes 
of treatment are very different. The soft solder mostly used is 2 parts 
tin and one of lead ; sometimes, from motives of economy, much 
more Lead is employed, and 1^ tin to 1 lead is the most fusible of 
the group, unless bismuth is used. Tho fluxea B to G, and the 
modes of boating a to i, aro all used with the sol. solders. 

Note. — Tho examples ccmmonce with the metals to be soldered. 
Thuc in the list zinc, 8. <;,/, implied, that zinc is soldered with No. 
8 alloy, by the aid of tne muriate or cliloride of zinc, and the copper 
bit. Load, C to 8, F, rf, e, implies that lead is soldered with alloys 
varying from No. 4 to 8, ana that it is fluxed with tallow, the heat 
being applied by pouring on melted solder, and the subseauent use 
of tho hcatod iron, not tinned ; but in general one only of tne modes 
of hcctijg isxlcct/od, Ciccording to circumstances. 
I Iron, cast-iron and "teel, 8, B, D, if thick, heated by a, 6, or c, 
and also by g. JSec c>;^ge 190. 

Tinned iron, C, (J, D,/ 

Gold and silver are soldered with pure tin, or else with 8,E,a ,^, 
or h. 

Copper and many of its alloys, namely, brass, gilding metal 
gun metal. &c.. 8, B, 0, D; when thick, heated by a, 6, c, «, or g^ 
when thin by/, or ,9. 

Speculum "metal, 8,B, 0. D, the heat should be cautiously applied, 
tho sand bath is perhaps the best mode. 

Zinc, C, 0./. 



Lead 



or e. 



and lead pipes, or ordinary plumber's work 4 to 8 F, d^ 



Lead and tin pipes, 8, D, and G, mixed, <;, and also/. 

Britannia metal, 0, D, ^. See page 189. 

Pewters, the solders must varv in fusibility according to the fu» 
sibity of the metal, generally G, and «, are used, sometimes also 
G, and g^ or f. 

Lead is united without solder by pouring on red-hot lead, and 
employing a red-hot iron <f, e. 

Iron and brass are sometimes burned, or united by partial fusion, 
by pouring very hot metal over or around them. See page 214. 



Alloy3 and their M/ t.TiN0 Hbats, 



Fluxes. 



No. 1 


1 Tin 


25 Lead 558 Fahr, 


A. Borax. 


2 


1 « 


10 


u 


541 


(< 


B. Sal-am. ormur. of amm. 


'a 


1 « 


6 





611 


«c 


G. Muriate or chlor. of zind 


4 


1 « 


3 


A 


482 


(C 


D. Common resin. 


5 


1 « 


2 


U 


4'il 


(C 


B. Venice turpentine. 


C 


1 « 




3L 


370 


(3 


F. Tallow. 


g 


^^l 




CI 


334 


C( 


G. G&Uipoli oil, or commoil 




2 « 




u 


340 


C( 


[sweet oil. 


9 


3 « 




u 


356 


« 


Modes oi* Applyikq Heat. 


10 


4 « 




u 


365 


« 


a. Naked fire. 


11 


6 « 




u 


378 


K 


h. Hollow furnace or muffle* 


12 


a " 


. _ 


u 


381 


U 


c. Immersion in melted sold. 



244 ' MACHINISTS, ^NQINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



1:4 


3 


(t 


3 


« 


1 


c< 


310 


« 


15 


2 


u 


2 


C( 


1 


« 


292 


(( 


16 


1 


(C 


1 


« 


1 


<! 


254 


<( 


17 


2 


a 


1 


i( 


2 


;« 


236 


tc 



18 3 « 5 « 2 « 202 « 



Alloys j^d their Mkltino flaiiTS. Modes of Applying Heat. 

13 4 Lead 4 Tin 1 Bismuth 320 Fahr d!. Melted solder or me- 
tal poxired on. 

e. Heated iron, not tin d. 

/, Heated copper tool, 
tinned. 

ff. plow pipe flame. 

A, Flame alone, gene- 
rally alcohol. 

i. Stream of heated air. 

To Rbftob Swbbpings Containing Gold oh Silvbe. — To 8 ozs. 
of the dirt, which has been washed and burnt, add salt, 4 ozs. ; 
pearlash 4 ozs. ; red tartar" 1 oz. ; saltpetre ^ oz., mix thoroughly 
in a mortar, melt in a crucible, and dissolve out the precious 
metals in a button. 

To FtTsa Gold Dust. — Use such a cruciUe as is generally 
used for melting brass ; heat very hot ; then add your gold dust 
mixed with powdered borax ;— after some time a scum or slag will 
arise on tho top, which mav be thickened by the addition of a 
little limo or bone ash. If the dust contains any of tho more 
oxidizeablo metals, add a littte nitre, skim off the slag or scum very 
carefully ; when melted grasp the crucible with strong iron tongs ; 
and pour off immediately into cast iron moulds, slightly greased. 
The alag and crucibles m&j be afterwards pulverized, and the 
auriferous matter recovered n:om the mass through cupellation by 
means of lead. 

To Recovbr Gold prom Quartz. — Pulverize the quartz rock as 
usual, and fuse the mass with lime and oxide of iron. When fused, 
immerse thin plates of wrought iron in the mixture. The plates 
soon become coated with a thin film of gold, and are then with- 
drawn and immersed in a bath of melted lead, which removes the 
adhering gold, when the plates can be at once returned to tho fused 
quartz and the operation repeated as frequently as the case may 
require. Another method, when the metal is disseminated through 
quartz pyrites or lead, is to pulverize the ore as usual and wash the 
whole with a stream of water, which carries away the lighter 
portions of sand, leaving the lieavy metal behind. It is further 
treed from impurities by being amalgamated with quick-silver, 
which is afterwards distilled off. In this state it generally contains 
from 2 to 10 per cent, of silver or tellurium. It is further refined 
by being finely granulated and boiled with concentrated culphuric 
acid until every other constituent is boiled out. Gold by being 
alloyed, loses much of its ductility and malleability, but gains in 
fusibility and hardness. Gold alloys are assayed in two ways, 
first, by rubbing the article on a touchstone ( which is a velvetv, 
black flinty varietur of jasper) so as to make a metallic streak, 
which is touched with aqua regia, and tho effect is compared with 
that of a similar streak made by an alloy of known composition. By 
this means an experienced operator can estimate the amount of 
alloy in any mixture correctly within one per cent. Full informa- 
tion regarding the second ptocess can be seen under tho article on 
RBFiNiNa Gold and Silvbr. 



IIPTS, 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, StG., RECEIPTS, 24S 



:tt;S 



lpplying Heat. 

L solder or me- 

joured on. 

[iron, not tin d. 

I copper tool, 

led. 

)ipe fiame. 

i alone, gene- 

y alcohol. 

I of heated air. 

rBR.— To 8 oza. 

dd salt, 4ozs. ; 

mix thoroughly 

at the precious 

B is generally 
. your gold dust 
;um or slag will 
le addition of a 
,ny of the more 
lag or scum very 
'ong iron tongs ; 
jlightly greased. 
\rerizea, and the 
h cupellation by 

le quartz rock as 
on. When fused, 
luro. The plates 
are then with- 
fich removes the 
ned to tho fused 
the case may 
linated through 
and wash the 
•ay the lighter 
., It is further 
th quick-silver, 
[nerally contains 
I further refined 
[trated culphuric 
Gold by being 
y, but gains iu 
. in two ways, 
ch is a velvety, 
letallic streak, 
compared with 
omposition. By 
ithe amount of 
Full informa- 
r tho article on 



Gold Alloys. The " New Standard " for watch cases, &c., is 18 
carats of fine gold and 6 of alloy. No gold of inferior quality can 
receive the "Hallmark"; and gold of lower quality is generally 
described by its commercial value. The alloy may be entirely 
silver, which will give a green color, or entirely copper for a red 
color, but the copper and silver are more usually nixed in one 
alloy according to the taste of the jeweller. It will be understood 
that these are all made with fine gold, fine silver, and fine copper, 
direct from the refiner. Gold of 22 carats fine being so litt]'^ used, 
is intentionally omitted. 1. Chid qf 18 carats, qf yellow tint. Golo 
15 dwt, bilver, 2 dwt, 18 grs, copper, 2 dwt 6 gi3, 2. Gold of 18 
carats, red tint. Gold L^ dwt, silver, 1 dwt 18 grs, copper, 3 dwt 
6 grs. 3, Spring gold of \Q carat's. Gold 1 oz. IS dwt, silver, 6 dwt. 
copper, 12 dwt. This, when drawn or rolled very hard, makes sptings 
little inferior to steel; 4. 7eM;e/^ers'.F/n« Gold, yelloij tint, 16 carats 



nearly 
tint, 16 



Gold, 
carats. 



oz, Silver, 7 
Gold, 1 oz. 



dwt. copper, 5 
silver, 2 dwt. 



dwt, 5. 
copper. 



(rold qf red 
8 dwt. Gold 



alloys in great variety will be found by consulting the " Jewellers' 
Department " pages 153, 154, 155 and 156. 

Smelting op Copper. — After the ore is raised from the mine, it is 
freed from its matrix and sorted, the purest portions being broken 
mto pieces the size of a nut. The first calcination is eflFected in a 
reverberatory furnace, the heat not being raised too high. At the 
end of 12 hours the ore is converted into a black powder, contain- 
ing sulphide of copper, oxide and sulphide of Icon, and earthy 
impurities. The roasted ore is next firsed with a quantity of sili« 
cious slag, by which means it is converted into a fusible slag con- 
sisting of silicate of iron and sulphides of ij^n and copper, which 
sink through the slag, forming at the bottom a heavy mass, termed 
a matt. The matt thus procured is, while melted, run into water, 
by which it is granulated. The product obtained ic called coarse 
metal. It is roasted once :liore for twenty-four hours, by which 
means the larger proportion of the sulphido of iron ic coaverted 
into oxide. It is then calcined with some copper oro known to 
contain oxide of copper and silica. The oxide of oopper transforms 
any remaining sulphide of iron into oxide, v/hich is taken up by 
the silica to form a slag, through which the sulphide of copper sinks. 
This matt contains about 80 per cent, of copper, and is known 
by the name of Jine metal. It is cast into pigs, tho lower portions 
of which contain most of the impurities ; tho metal extracted from 
the upper portions being known in the market as best selected 
copper. Tho fine metal has now to be freed entirely from sulphur 
by a final calcination, at a heat just short of that required to fuse 
it. During the process the motal becomes oxidized at the surface. 
The oxide thus formed decomposes the rest of the sulphide, sul- 
phurous acid escaping, and metallic copper remaining behind. Tho 
metal obtained is run ott into moulds, forming ingots full of bub- 
bles, from the escape of the sulphurous acid gas. These ingots, 
which are known as pimple, or blistered copper, from their peculiar 
appearance, have now to undergo the process of refining. They 
are placed in a reverberatory furnace, and kept in a melted state 
for upwards of 20 hours, to oxidize the last traces of forei'ga 
^tals. Slags are formed on the surface and skimmed off, and a 



(i.-^'.'i 



iim 



. li 



246 MAOHII^iSTS, ENGINEERS, &C., ERCEIPTS* 



great deal cf oxide is produced which is absorbed by the metal. To 
reduce this oxide, the surface of the melted metal is covered with 
anthracite or charcoal, and towards the last a young tree is thrust 
in. This process, which is called poling, disengages the whole of 
the oxygen from the oxide diffused through the mass. The above 
is, as nearly as possible, the method of copper-smelting, as em- 
ployed in England, the processes adopted in Saxony and North 
America being nearly identical with it, the diflference merely being 
modifications to suit the various impurities contained in the ore. 
When the ore consists of oxide or carbonate of copper only, it is 
reduced to the metallic state by simple fusion with charcoal and 
subsequent poling. 

Smelting of Lead. — The ore having been brought to the surface, 
is first sorted by hand, the purest portions being set aside ready for 
smelting. The rost is broken by hammers into lumps as large as a 
walnut, and again sorted. The remainder is then crushed in a 
mill, and sifted through coarse sioves, the coarser portions being 
set aside for the stampers, and the finer being subjected to the pro- 
cess ixi figging. This consists in plunging a sieve containing the 
ore mt0 water, and shaking H dexterously^ so that the smallest 
particles pass through, leaving the larger pieces in the sieve, with 
tbe lightest and least metallic portions uppermost. If the sorted 
galena be tolerably free from gangue, aoout IJ ton of the ore is 
mixed with 4-15th to l-40th its weight of lime, and heated to dull 
redness in a reverberatory furnace, through which a current of air 
is passing. By this means a large portion of the sulphur is burnt 
off as sulphurous acid, oxide of lead and sulphate of lead being 
formed, and much ol tj^e ore remaining undecomposed. When the 
roasting has been carried suflRcientiy far, the furnace doors are 
shut and the heat is raised. The sulpliatc and oxide of lead re-act 
on the undecomposed sulphide, a large quantity of sulphurous acid 
is formed, which passes off, leaving large quantities of metallic 
lead behind. The hre is now damped, r.nd a quantity of lime 
thrown in, which forms a very infusible slag, allowing the metallic 
lead to be drawn off into moulds. The slag, which contains a large 
proportion of lead, is smelted with an additional portion of ore. 
Lead is refined by being melted in a shallow pan in a reverberat- 
ory furnace. By this operation any tin or antimony it may contain 
is oxidized and removed as skimmings. When a ladleful of the lead 
under this operation cools with a peculiar crystalline surface, the 
process is discontinued, and the metal is run off into pigs. For 
°ome purposes, such for instance as the making of red lead for the 
manufacture of flint glass, it is necessary that the lead should be 
almost chemically pure, as a proportion of copper for instance, 
amounting only to a few grains per ton, would color the glass and 
spoil the batch. Silver may be profitably extracted from lead, even 
when it contains only three or four ounces to the ton, by Pattin- 
son's process. This process depends upon the fact that, as lead 
solidifies, the first portions that crystallize are pure lead. The 
operation is, therefore, performed by melting the metal in an iron 
pot and allowing it to cool gradually ; as it cools, the crystals of 
pure lead are removed by a perforated ladle, and the process con- 
tinually repeated with fresh portions of lead until the mass con- 



' ^MACHINISTS, ENGIJifEBgSj AC, RBCEItTg^^ ^247 

tains about 300 ounces to rne ton. iT Is then strDmltted to cupee* 
lation. See Refining Gold and Silvkr, page 164, 

MANUFAOTTTRifi OF Ip.on. — The preparation of the ore is effected 
in a very simple manner, either by pounding or levigating, to 
separate the clay and silica, or other impurities, or by roasting, to 
draw off sulphur and carbonic acid, and to render the ore more 
easily crushed. The extraction of the metal from the ore was 
formerly effected by means of charcoal, in what was termed a 
Catalan forge, but it is only used now in a few instances. On 
account of the loss of metal during the process, it will be better 
to describe the usual method of smelting ores in England by the 
blast-furnace. A blast-furnace consists of a loug cone mvertcd 
upon a shorter cone, at the bottom of which is a vertical passage 
called the crucible, into which are inserted three pipes called 
tuyeres, throuo:h which the blast is conveyed ; also a larger open- 
ing, through which the slag may be withdrawn, at intervals. At 
the bottom is a hole called the tap-hole, usually closed with clay 
for drawing off the reduced metal when a sufficient quantity is 
collected. The furnace is fed with coal, limestone and ore, from 
a hole near the top, the charge being renewed from time to time 
as the materials burn down. The action by which the ore ia 
reduced to the metallic state may be traced as follows. The oxy- 
gen of the air of the blast combines with the carbon of the 
coal to form carbonic acid during the process of combustion.. The 
carbonic acid, during its passage through the rest of the heated 
fuel, is decomposed, being converted into carbonic oxide. The 
carbonic oxide, still ascending, meets with .the hydrogen and coal- 
gas, togethei with which it forms a reducing mixture^ abstracting 
the oxygen of the ore <j.nd setting free the iron in a metallic state, 
which sinks down to the bc^^^tom of the furnace, where it comes in 
contact with the carbon of the coal. With this carbide of iron ia 
formed, increasing the fusibility of the reduced iron to such an 
extent that the lime, clay, and silica present, which have been con- 
verted into a fusible slag, float on the top as an imperfect glass. 
The slag runs over through the side apertures provided for the pur- 
pose, and the metal is withdrawn every 12 or 24 hours through the 
tap-hole. It is run into moulds consisting of a long channel, from 
each side of which run shorter ones. The central channel is known 
as the sow, the side ones as the pigs^ hence the term pig iron, as 
applied to rough cast-iron. Great improvements have lately beea 
made in the process of smelting iron, by the introduction of a, 
heated blast for urging the combustion, and by using the com- 
bustible gases issuing from the top of the furnace for heating the 
blast, or the boilers of the steam-engines used for the blowing 
machines. These improvements are now in use at most of the 
principal iron works throughout the kingdom, a^d an idea of 
their importance may be gathered from the fact that 15 years ago 
a yield of 200 tons per furnace was thought to be a large quantity, 
wher^-as now, at the Ulverstone and other works, GOO and 650 tons 
per week is thougbt an ordinary yield ; not only this, but the 
amount of fuel used has been reduced to one-quarter by the same 
means. The iron that comes from the furnace is generally much 
too impure to be used for any but the very roughest castings, 




,»!;•;! 






248 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS* 






it therefore has to be remelted,to 'rive off, as much as possible, the 
uncombined carbon, or graphite, silicon, phosphorus, sulphur, and 
other impurities. A single refusion converts it into what is termed 
" No. 2 pig," or a grey iron, a fusible and liquid metal ; a second 
and third still furtheir purifying it from carbon, until it is converted 
into refined or whit's iron, in which Ae whole of the cax'juii is 
combined with the metal, Tliis description of cast-iron is only 
used for coKversion into malleable iron, for although it mel^ 
easily, it I'Drms a much more pasty mass than some of the inter- 
mediate qualities of grey iron, which melt into a more liquid metal, 
fitting them for casting purposes. Refined iron made from the 
German spathose ores contains a large quantity of combined carbon 
and manganese, and crystallizes in large plates. It is termed 
spieffel-eitssn, or mirror iron, I'^'om the brilliancy of its crystalline 
structure, aud is much value«d for making steel. Founders are 
accustomed to divide cast-iron into three or four qualities. No. 1., 
pig or black cast-iron, which contains a large proportion of uncom- 
bined carbon 5 No, 2, or grey cast-iron, which contains more com- 
bined carbon ; No. 3, or mottled, which contains only a few grain-i 
of uncombined carbon, here and there, giving it a mottled appear- 
ance ; No. 4, or refined iron, in which the whole of the carbon is 
combined. No. 4, is very hard and brittle, and is fit for puddlirg 
or conversion into ^jalleable or wrought-iron. This is effected by 
bringing an ingot of refined iron to a state of fusion in a reverber- 
atory furnace, taking care to avoid the contact of fuel. The hsul; 
is continued until the ingot parts with its carbon, which is assialed 
by throwing on it scales of oxide, if produced in the forge.' 
As the carbon burns off, the ingot becomes more and more pasty,' 
until at length it is converted into a g-'uiular sandy mass. The' 
heat is now raised until it becomes ve""- intense, and the air is 
excluded by closing the damper and c. > : The rnetal begins to 
agglomerate into round massns, or blo'^ ■■. , which the puddler col- 
lects on the end of an iron rod, and subjects, while still hot, either 
to the action of a hammer or to a powerful press, called a sloughing 
press, which squeezes out the slag and other impurities, and forces 
the particles of iron closer together. The iron is then rolled into 
bars, and forms what is called homogeneous iron, a quality of 
metal much used when great hardness is required. It is distin-| 
guished by its granular texture when notched and broken. It is 
much used for the tops of railway bars, and for the weariag sur- 
faces of railway wheels. Where the fibrous quality of iron is 
required, it is cut into lengths, after the first process of rolling,^ 
then piled longitudinally, heated in a reverberatory furnace, and 
hammered out. This process is repeated several times. Fibrous' 
iron has a fracture like a piece of cane, and is used where resistance 
to a pullinp- strain is required, such as anchors, chains, &c. Rail-| 
way bars uiC mostly made with the interior of the rail of fibrous 
iron, to bear the weight c^ passing trains, while the exteriors are 
made of granular iron to I'oar the wearing action of the wheels. The 
malleable iron of commerce is nearly pure, and may be taken as a 
type of iron foi metallurgical purposes. Wrought-iron is of bluish 
white color ; it is hard and lustrous when polished, and, when rubbed 
forcibly, :t emits a peculiar odour. Its specific gravity is 7.7 tg 



reT ■ *■ 1" 



1-. 



'•."WE" 



[PTS. 

as possible, the 
s, sulphur, and 
what is termed 
etal ; a second 
it is converted 
the caik/uii is 
3t-iron is only 
lough it melts 
le of the inter- 
re liquid metal, 
nade from the 
tmbined carbon 
It is termed 
its crystalline 
Pounders are 
alities. No. 1., 
'tion of uncom- 
lins more com- 
ly a few grain d 
aottled appear- 
tf the carbon is 
tit for puddlirg 
ts is effected by 
1 in a revorber- 
fuel. The hebi 
hich is assiatcci 
1 in the forge.' 
nd more pasty,' 
dy mass. The' 
and the air is' 
letal bef;ins to| 
e puddler col- 
till hot, either 
d a sloughing 
ies, and forces 
en rolled into' 
|, a quality of 
It is distin-' 
broken. It is 
wearing sur- 
[ty of iron is 
[ss of rollingj' 
furnace, and 
Imes. Fibrous' 
liere resistance' 
Ins, &c. Rail-| 
rail of fibrous' 
exteriors are 
le wheels. Tlie 
Ibe taken as a 
m is of bluish 
jjWhen rubbed 
ivity is 7.7 tg 



MACHINISTS, BNaiNEERS, 40., RECEIPTS. 



249 



7.9, and it requires the mostintense heat of a wind furnace to melt 
it. 

Smkltinu of Antimony. — The reduction of antimony to the 
regulina state consists of tv;o operations. The crude ore is first 
melted in an inclined plane, in a reverbatory furnace. The melted 
sulphide fuses and flows away from the al&gfOT ganffue as it is cabled. 
The sulphide is again roasted, and mixed with carbonate of soda 
and charcoal. On heating this mixture in a crucible, a quantity of 
the metal is formed at the bottom. The unreduced oxygulpnide 
which remains on the top is afterwards used for preparing Kerme's 
mineral. It is never used alone in the arts, but alwajs in con« 
junction with other metals, to which it imparts a hardening quality 
and likewise the valuable property of expanding when they cool. 
Common type metal is composed of 4 parts lead and 1 of antimony. 
Music type contains in addition a small portion of tin. 

Smelting of Tin. — To extract the metal, the ore is first stamped 
or washed^ to get rid of the lighter particles of sand or earth ad- 
hering to it. It is then roasted to free it from arsenic and sulphur, 
and again washed to carry off the snlphate of copper and oxide or 
iron. The washed ore is mixed with from one-fifth to one-eighth 
its weight of powdered anthracite, or charcoal, and a small portion 
of lime to form a fusible slag with any of the remaining ganguo. 
The charge is placed in the hearth of a low crowned reverberatoiy 
furnace, and the doors are closed up. Heat is applied very gradu- 
ally for five or six hours, care being taken to raise the temperature 
high enough to cause the carbon to reduce the tin without molting 
the silicious gangue, which would form with the binoxide an enamel 
too troublesome to remove. When nearly all the tin is reduced, the 
heat is raised considerably, the slags being thus rendered fluid and 
capable of floating on the surface of the melted metal. The tin is 
then run off into cast-iron pans from which it is ladled off into 
moulds to form ingots. The tin thus procured is far from being pure, 
it is therefore submitted to the process of lignation, which consists 
in heating the ingots to incipient fusion. By this msans the purer 
tin, which fuses at a comparatively low heat, separates, running 
down and leaving the impure portions behind. The less fusiblo 
portion, when re-melted, forms block tin, and the part which Las 
run out is again melted and run out with wet stakes. The steam thus 
formed bubbles up to the surface, carrying with it all the mechan- 
ical impurities contained in the tin. The mass is then skimmed 
and allowed to cool. When just about to set, the upper half ic 
ladled out, the other met£.ls and impurities having sunk into the bot«« 
torn half, from the tendency that this metal has to separate from its 
alloys.^ The finest quality of tin is frequently heated to a temper- 
ature just short of it? melting point. At this heat, it becomes 
brittle and is broken up into masses, showini^ the crystals of tho 
metal, and forming what is known as grain tin. The formation of 
crystals is to some extent a guarantee of its puriryj sin<!e impure tin 
does not become io 'i Kl^ in this way. English tit; generally contains 
smftll quar^titic i <\ »•; enic, copper, iron and lead. Tin fuses at 
442" Fahr, bul it is 'n-i sensibly volatilized at that or any , higher 
temperature. Fortie aannfacture of tin plato the best soft char- 
yoal iron is oblige*! to bt used. After it has been rolled and cut to 



Kf 




mv •<:■■ , 






i 









I 



t\'C 



m 



250 MACHINI?.TS, ENQINEERS, &0., REOEIPTSo 

the requisite size, its surface is made chemically clean by immersion 
for a few minutes in dilute sulphuric acid. The sheets v.xq then 
heated to a red heat in a rcverberatory furnacej withdrawn, al- 
lowed to cool, hammered flat, passed between polished rollers, and 
are now washed in dilute acid. This preparation is needed to free 
the surface of the iron from the slightest portion of oxide, to which 
the tin would not adhere. In order to tin them they are plunged 
one by one into a vessel of talloWj from which they are transferred 
to a bath of tin. From this they arc taken, after a certain time, 
allowed to drain, and dipped again. The superfluous tin at the edge 
of the plate is removed by dipping it in the melted tin once more, 
and detaching it by giving tho plate a sharp blo'7. 

ZiNO. — In the extraction of zinc from its ores, ihe blende or cala- 
mine is first crushed between rollers and roasted. In the case of 
the blende this is a tedious process and recjuires great care. The 
result in either case is oxido of zinc which is mixed with half ita 
weight of powdered coke or anthracite and introduced into crucibles 
of peculiar constraction. A circular furnace is employed, within 
which the crucibles are ranged. In the bottom of each crucible is 
an opening io which a short iron pipe is attached, passing through 
the bottom of the furnace. To the end of this is affixed a remov- 
able tube c >mmunicating with a sheet iron-vessel. The hole in 
the bottom <;'f the crucible having been partially plugged with 
coke^ a charge of ore and coal is introduced, and tho top of tho 
crucible luted down. The tube connected with the iron vessel is 
lowered so as to leave the cruciblo tube open, and the heat is 
raised. As soon as the flame at the mouth of tho :. hcrt iron tube 
begins to turn from white to blue, connection is made with th3 
tube leading to the iron pan, and the sine gradually iistils down- 
wards, partly in powder, atid partly in staUctitic masses Th'5 
crude metal is remelted, skimmed and cast into ingots. 

Hard Tinning jiTPouNo. — An alloy of nickel, iron and tin haj 
been introduced as an improvement in tinning meti.ls, by th: firm 
of Blaise & Co., Paris. In an experiment to show the tenacity of 
the nickel, a piece of cast-iron tinned with tho compound was sub- 
jected for a few minutes to a white heat under the blast, and, 
although the tin was consumed, the nickel remained us a perma- 
nent coating u^^jon the iron. The proportions of nic'iel and iron 
mixed with theiiju^ in order to produce tho best tinnini*, are 10 ozs. 
of the bciil ickei and 7 ozs. of sheet iron, to 10 lbs. of tin. Theso 
metals ato mi.>(r!(? iu ;^ crucible to prevent the oxidation of the tin 
by the high temi*era.tur3 necessary for the fusion of tho nickel : tho 
metals are cover^'^. m\h. 1 oz. of borax and 3 ozs. pound'^d glass. 
The fusion is complete in half an hour, when tho composivlon is 
run off through a nole made in the flux. In tinning metals with 
this composition thu workman proceeds in the ordinal'y manner. 

Steel riANUPAci l'rb.— Steel is'raanufactured from pure malleable 
iron by ^he process called cementation. The Swedish iron from 
the D i ruemora Mines, marked with tne letter L in the ceiilre ot a 
circle, and called '' Hoop V is generally preferred Irons of a few 
other marks are also used for second-rate kinds of ^teel« S.Tie bars 
are arranged in a furnace that consists of twt) 1:ruUglis,i about 
fourteen feet long and two feet square, A layer of char coal-poNvder 



'TSo 

by immersion 
eeta ?,Te then 
ithdrawc, al- 
)d rollers, and 
aeeded to free 
xide, to which 
• are plunged 
tre transferred 
certain time, 
in at the edge 
in once more, 

ilende or cala- 
n the case of 
3at care. The 
with half ita 
[ into crucibleo 
ployed, within 
ach crucible is 
issing through 
fixed a romov- 
The hole in 
plugged with 
tho top of tho 
I iron vessel is 
ad the heat is 
hcrt iron tube 

rade with th3 
iistils down" 
masses Th'5 
ta 

)n and tir: ha^' 

Is, by th: firm 

he tenacity of 

)und was sub- 

le blast, and, 

lis a penna- 

c'iel and iron 

i|*, ate 10 ozs. 

|f tin. Theso 

[ion of the tin 

10 nickel : tho 

>und«d glass. 

[omposivion is 

metals with 

jVy manner. 

ire malleable 

Ish iron from 

\b centre ot a 

rons of a few 

ih SJhe bars 

bgbs^ about 

koal-powdei" 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 251 

is spread over the bottom, then a layer of bars, and so on, alter- 
nately, — the full charge is about ten tons ; the top is covered over 
first with charcoal, then sand, and lastly with the slush or wast* 
from the grindstone trough, applied wet, 'so as to cement the whole 
closely down for the entire exclusion of the air. A coal fire is now 
lighted below and between the troughs ; and at 'the end of about 
seven days, the bars are found to have increased in weight, the one 
hundred and fiftieth part, by an absorption of oarbon, ana to ore- 
seut, when broken, a fracture more crystalline, although less 
shiumg, than before. The bars, when thus converted, are also 
covered with blisters, auparently from the expansion of the minute 
bubbles of air between them, this gives rise to the name, blistered 
steel. The continuation of the process of cementation introduces 
more and more carbon, and renders the bars more fusible, and 
would ultimately cause them to run into a mass if the heat were 
not checked. To avoid this mischief a bar is occasionally Avith- 
drawn and broken to watch the progress, and the work is com- 
j)lete when the cementation has extended to iha centre of the bars. 
The conversion occupies, with the time for charging and emptying 
the furnace, jibout fourteen days. A very small quantity of steel is 
employed in the blistered state, for welding to iron for certain parts 
of mechanism, but not for edge-tools. The bulk of the blistered 
steel is passed through one of the two following processes, by 
Avhich it IS made either into shear-steel or cast-steel. Shear-steel is 
produced by piling together six or eight pieces of blistered-steel, 
about 30 inches long, and securing the ends within an iron ring, 
terminating in a bar about 5 feet long by way of a handle. They 
are then brought to a welding heat in a furnace and submitted to 
the helve or tilt hammer, which unites and extends them into a 
bar called Shear-steel from its having been used in the manufac- 
ture of sheai's for cloth mills, and also Germuu sieel, from having 
been in former years procured from that country. Sometimes the 
bars are again cut and welded and called double-shear steel from 
the repetition. This process of Avorlciug, as 'u ihe manufacture of 
iron, restores the fibrous character, and rciaiiis the property of 
welding : the shear-steel is close, hard, and elastic ; it is much used 
for tools, composed jointly of steel and iron, iis superior elasticity 
also adapts it to the formation of springs, and some kinds are pre- 
pared expressly for the same, under the name of spring-steel. In 
making cast-steel, about 26 or 28 lbs. of fragments of blistered steel, 
selected from different varieties, are placed in a crucible made of 
clay, shaped like a barrel, and fitted with a cover^ which is ce- 
mented down with a fusible lute that melts after a time, the better 
to secure the joining. Either one or two pots are exposed to a 
vivid heat, in a furnace like the brass-founder's air furnace in which 
the blistered-steel is thoroughly melted in the course of 3 or 4 hours ; 
it is then removed by the workman in a glowing state, and poured 
into a mould of iron, cither 2 inches square for bars, or about 6 x 
18 inches, for rolling into sheet-steel. For large ingots the con- 
tents of two or more pots are run lOgcther in the same mould, but 
it requires extremely great care in managing the very intense tem- 
jierature that it shall be alike in both or all the pots. The ingots 
are re-hcatcd in aa opeu iire much like tlit^t^f tUc Qommou lurgCj 



si 



1 ■ ' 

S', ith 



-f ' m 



'"^1 






«i:<l!af;ji 






n, 



' ll!f| 



,!!,! 



'il' 



iii 



I . 



si 

Hi 



252 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS, 

and are passed under a heavy hammer weighing several tons, 
such as those of iron-works, the blows aro given gently at first, 
owing to the crystalline nature of the mass, but, as the fibre is 
eleminated, the strength of the blows is increased, till is reduced 
under the heavy hammer to sizes as small as J of an inch square 
Smaller bars are finished under tilt hammers, which are much 
lighter than the preceding, move considerably quicker, and are 
actuated by springs instead of gravity alone ; these condense the 
Bteel to the utmost. Rollers are also used, especially for steel of 
round, half-round, and triangular sections, but the tilt hammor is 
greatly preferred. 

Steel, by the Bessemer Process. — Mr. Goransson, a Swedish iron 
master, having fully examined the Bessemer procoss of making 
steel, and erected the necessary apparatus at his works at Edsken, 
after considerable delay in experimenting, has, within a recent 
period, succeeded in establishing the manufacture of good steel, on 
a practical scale, and in short devotes his whole establishment to 
this one process. This steel has been made into engineers' tools, 
boiler plates, and cutlery ; and the improvement must now be re- 
garded as an accomplished commercial fact. Mr. Goransson states, 
that he has carried out Bessemer's invention to the fullest extent, 
without ever having had recourse to any of the numerous plans 
which have been patented by others, under the idea of improving 
the original simple process. The converting vessel is erected, near 
the tap hole of the blast-furnace, so that about one ton of fluid pig- 
iron can be run into the apparatus at a time. The pressure of the 
blast is from 7 to 8 lbs. to the square inch ; and, when continued 
for 6 or 7 minutes, the whole charge is converted into steel. The 
fluid steel is discharged into a loam-lined ladle, when it is well 
stirred, and considerable carbonic oxide disengaged and inflamed. 
After a short interval of repose,' wMch is probably necessary for 
the steel to condense from the aerated condition in which it leaves 
the converting vessel, it is run off" from the bottom of the ladle, in 
a vertical stream from the ingot moulds. The whole time occu- 
pied, from the moment the pig-iron leaves the furnace until it is 
cast in the mould, does not exceed 12 minutes. The loss in weight, 
including the impurities thrown ofi*, does not exceed 15 per cent., 
which is only about one-half of the waste incurred in the tiianufacture 
of bar-iron by the old system in Sweden. By this improvement, 
Mr. Goransson states, in a letter to the London Engineer, that 
more than 1000 tons annually of cast-steel can be made with the 
same quantity of fuel as is now required for making 500 tons of 
bar-iron. He says : " So completely have we accomplished the ob- 
ject that we now make several tons of large ingots of cast-steel in 
succession, without a single mishap or tailure of any kind. The 
steel can be made either hard, medium, or soft at pleasure. It 
draws under the hammer perfectly sound and free from cracks or 
faults of any kind, and has the property of welding in a most 
remarkable degree. ' 

Phillip's Fire Annihilator.— Consists of a case containing 
water, within which is a smaller case containing chlorate of pot- 
ash and sugar. Dipped in the latter is a small tube containing 
Bulphurig OiQid j when this tube is broken the chlorate of cotash 



everal tons, 
itly at first, 

the fibre is 
11 i8 reduced 

inch square 
h are much 
ker, and are 
sonaense the 
|r for steel of 
Lt hammor is 

Swedish iron 
;3 of making 
;s at Edskcn, 
hin a recent 
rood steel, on 
iblishment to 
;ineer8' tools, 
st now be rc- 
msson states, 
'ullest cstent, 
merous plana 
of improving 
erected, near 
m of fluid pig- 
ressure of the 
len continued 
,o steel. The 
en it is well 
,nd inflamed, 
necessary for 
Ihich it leaves 
the ladle, in 
e time occu- 
,ce until it is 
iss in weight, 
15 per cent., 
manufacture 
provement, 
\iigineer, that 
"ado with the 
500 tons of 
lushed the ob- 
[cast-steel in 
kind. The 
aleasure. It 
bm cracks or 
in a most 

containing 
|)rate of pot- 
containing 
Ite of ootash 



MACHINISTS, BNOINEERS, &0,," RECEIPTS. ' '^ ij53 

i 
and sugar become ignited, throwing off large quantities of mixed 
gases which are non-gupportera of combustion ; the action ia 
maintained bp the water m the outer case becoming heated. The 
gases are conveyed to the fire by means of a flexible tube fitted 
with a proper nozzle and stop-cock. T have seen still another 
kind constructed of copper in quite an elegant style, fitted with 
shoulder straps, &c., for easy transportation, in which the gasea 
were generated by means of chemicals on tne principle of what 
may be seen every day in the effervescence of carbonic acid gaa 
from the intermixture of seidletz powders in water. The chemicals 
being introduced from white and blue paper packages into the 
water contained in the copper case. 

To Remedy Slip of Driving Belts. — Dab on a little of the 
sticky oil which oozes away from the bearings of machinery. 

To Bend Coppjsr and Brass Pipes. — Run melted ].:aU into your 
pipe till full, and you may then bend it gradually inl •• any shape 
you choose, the pipe may then be heated and the lead melted and 
run out again. 

Boring Gun Barrels. — Take a piece of rod, cast steel, J inch 
smaller than the interior of the barrel, and a few inches longer, 
beat one end up something larger than the size of bore, then turn 
or file it in the shape of an egg, leaving the swell, or centreing 
part l-20th of an inch larger than the bore. With a saw file, cut 
longitudinal cuts, ^th inch apart, laying them the same angle as a 
rose bit countersink, taking care not to injure the periphery of the 
tool ; harden and temper to straw color. 

Drilling China, Glass, &c. — To drill china use a copper drill 
and emery, moistened with spirits turpentine. To drill glass, use 
a steel drill tempered as hard as possible and camphor and water 
as a lubricant. 

Mallet's Brass. — Copper 25-4 ; zinc, 74*6, Used to preserve iron 
from oxidizing. 

To Prevent Corrosion in Lead Pipes. — Pass a strong solution 
of sulphide of potassium and sodium through the inside of the 
pipe at a temperature of 212, and allow it to remain about ten or 
fifteen minutes. It converts the inside of the pipe into an insoluble 
sulphide of lead and prevents corrosion. 

To Enamel Copper Vessels. — Pulverise finely 12 parts of fluor 
spar, 12 parts of unground gypsum, and 1 part borax, and fuse 
together in a crucible ; when cold, mix with water to a paste, and 
apply to the interio- of the vessel with a paint brush ; A/hen dry 
the vessel should be thoroughly baked in a muffle or furnace. 

Shoeing op Horses. — As many parts of the horse's hoof are 
more tender then others, in the case of such animals as have very 
tender feet, it is the province of the shoeing smith to give ease to 
such parts and to throw the weight more upon those parts which 
are better calculated to support it, thus assisting nature in all her 
operations, in the animal economy. The horse in raising the fore 
foot for extension, the stress is put upon the flexor muscles, — in 
particular, the Flexor pedis perforans^ the tendon of which is insert- 
ed into posterior part of the os pedis, or bone at the foot. The 
longer the toe of the shoe, and straight, the greater leverage is 
required against the unyielding edge of tne toe. By keeping the 



»'»i 



i 



254 MACHIMST8, ENGINEERS, AC, IIECEIPTS. 



l\ 



toe a moderate leugtb, and turning up the toe of tno shoe a little, 
it allows the foot to be easily rotated, consequently less strebs is 
tluowu upon the flexor muscles and tendons, and more particu- 
larly upon the tendon at that part when it passes over the navi- 
cular bone ; it thus lessens tlie tendency to navicular disease, 
and, if 80 affected, this mode of shoeing will give great relief. 

PouTADLE TuuKiSH Batm.— Make a small circular boiler of 
copper or tin, and fit the same into an upright tin stand, in which, 
directly under 'the boilor. you must leave an aperture to contain a 
small spirit lamp. The uoiler lid must fit tightly and be provided 
with three small tubes pointing upwards. The boiler bemg filled 
with water and the lamp lighted, as soon as the steam gets up, it 
rushes through these tubes,and the patient, seated on a cane chair, 
with his or her feet in a pan of warm water, with a suitable cloak 
tightly fa3t«}ned around tne neck, is speedily enveloped in a cloud of 
Bteam. Tcri^inutcs is the time recommended for the duration 
of the first ft vv baths. It may be afterwards increased, but not 
beyond half un hour. On getting out of the cloak, plunge into a 
cold bath i'ot a few minutes, then rub the skin till it is quite dry 
and glowing with a coarse towel and a pair of good hair-gloves. 
Pt'i-sons in health or disease will experience a woiderful recupera- 
tive power ia the frequent use of this bath, and all will find it in- 
comparably superior to the use of drugs in any form \\ liatever. In 
this connection a new and very ingenious invention called Sponqio 
PiLiNB, is deserving of favourable mention. It consists of wool and 
small particles of sponge felted together^ and attached to a skin of 
India-rubber, the whole about half an mch in thickness, and of 
inestimable value as a means of applying cold or tepid water iScc., 
to such exterior parts of the human .frame as may be nearest to the 
seat of pain or disease. The water is sponged over the felted sur- 
face, the surplus, if any, wiped off; it is then placed on the skin, 
and covered over with several folds of bandages, which assist in re- 
taining the heat and moisture, thus attracting healthy blood to the 
part, from which nature selects such food as is most conducive to 
expel disease and build up healthy tissue. Nothing is so conducive 
to health of body, and the eradication of disease therefrom, as pure 
water when properly applied; and in most beautiful correspondence 
"With natural water we have in the Water op Lifb^ or Truths from 
the Divine Word^ that sovereign antidote which alone when 
applied to the life, can cure the malignant diseases of our spiritual 
nature, and purify our affeclions and thoughts with those hallowed 
influences which come from above. 

Black Lead Pencils. — The best pencils are made by grinding 
the black lead into a fine impalpable poAvder, then forming it into 
blocks by compression without any cementing substance, and 
finally sawing it up into the square ])risms, which; when placed in 
grooves in wood form the black lead pencils of commerce. The 
color can be graduated to any desired tinge by the intermixture 
of very finely ground clay. By the process of Prof. Brodie, the. 
most untractable graphite may be reduced to the finest powder 
with great case. The mineral is coarsely powdered and mixed 
with l-15th of chlorate of potash, to which mixture is added twice 
its weight of sulphuric acid. Chloric acid U disengaged, and, after 



s. 

loe a little, 
!B8 Btroas is 
)re particu- 
r the uavi- 
iar disease, 
relief. 

,r boiler of 
d, ia which, 
to contain a 
be provided 
being filled 
n gets up, it 
I, cane chair, 
itable cloak 
in a cloud of 
the duration 
jed, but not 
iluuge into a 
is quite dry 
hair-gloves, 
ful recupera- 
ill find It in- 
vhatever. In 
illed Sponoio 
of wool and 
1 to a skin of 
ness, and of 
water &c., 
[earest to the 
e felted sur- 
ou the skin, 
assist in re- 
blood to the 
jonducive to 
,0 conducive 
jom, as pure 
[respondence 
Truths from 
lalone when 
,ur spiritual 
>se hallowed 

Iby grinding 
Iming it intp 
[stance, and 
jn placed in 
lerce. The 
itermixiure 
iBrodie, the, 
jiest powder 
and mixed 
idded twice 
», and, after 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEirXB. 255 

the mass has cooled, it is well washed, dried, and heated to red' 
uess. During the latter operation, the black lead swells and be- 
comes reduced to so line a powder that it will swim upon water, 
a little fluoride of sodium is used to dissolve the silicious im- 
purities. The finest quality is found near Uurrowdale in Cumber- 
land, England. It ia nearly pure carbon, and perfectly free from 
grit. It is used principally in the manufacture of load i)en- 
cils, the coarser quality being used, when ground, for polishing 
iron work, glazing gunpowder, as a lubricator for machinerVj com- 
pounded with four times its weight of lard or tallow, aim in the 
manufacture of crucibles for melting metals, as it is very intract- 
able in an intense heat. 

To Polish Plasteu op Paris work, — The addition of 1 or 
2 per cent, of many salts, such as alum, sulphate of potash, or boras, 
confers upon gypsum tlie property of setting slowly in a mass 
cai)able of receiving a verv high jjolish. 

To MAKE Plaster op Paius as uard as Marmlk.— The plaster 
is put in a drum, turning horizontally on its axis, and steam 
admitted from a steam boiler | by this means the plaster is made 
to absorb in a short space of time .the desired quantity of moisture, 
which can be regulated with great precision. The piaster thus 
prepared is filled into suitable moulds ; and the whole submitted to 
the action of an hydraulic press ; when taken out of the moulds, 
the articles are ready for use, and will be found as hard as marble, 
and will take a polish like it. 

MoiRt Mbtalliqub. — Is a beautiful crystalline appearance givea 
to tin plate by brushing over the heated metal a mixture of two 
l)arts of nitric acid, 2 of hydrochloric acid, ai^d 4 of water ; as soon 
as the crystals appear, the plate is quickly washed, dried and var- 
nished. 

Mother of Pearl work. — This delicate substance requires great 
care in its workmanship, but it may be cut with the aid of saws, 
tiles and drills, with the aid of muriatic or sulphuric acid, and it 
is polished by colcothar, or the brown red oxide of iron, left after 
the distillation of the acid from sulphate of iron. In all orna- 
mental work^ where pearl is said to be used, for flat surfaces, 
such as inlaying, mosaic work, &c., it is not real pearl, but mother 
of pearl that is used. 

To Polish Pearl. — Takefin.elypub'^erizedrotte; stone and make 
into a thick paste by adding olive oil ; then add sulphuric acid, a 
sufficient quantity to make into a thin paste, apply oil a velvet 
cork ; rub quickly and, as soon as the pearl takes the polish, wash it. 

To Polish Ivoay. — Remjove any scratches or file marks that may 
be present with finely pulverized pumice stone, moistened with 
water, lien wasn the ivory end polish with prepared chalk, 
applied moist upoq a pfeco of chamois leather, rubbing quicklv. 

Kbrosenr or Carbon Oil Manufacture. — Petroleum, or rock oil. 
IS a liquid cubstance^ of a darK color, exuding from the«arth ana 
containing certain liquid and solid hydrocarbons such as benzole, 
or benzine, kerosene, parafiiue, asphaltum, &c., m a statQ oi 
solution, in di£Ebrent proportions. It differs greatly in composition, 
some samples contaimng solid paraffine and benzole in large quan- 
tities YftalQ others do not. Petroleum is separated from its dif* 



it: 






' ij 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 



4 








^.o 



/. 




fe 






1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



fc^lM |2.5 

*■ I. 

U 11.6 




Photographic 

Sdences 

Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 




^56 XAOHINIBTB, IMOUOOBS^ MO., KEOBIPTSU 

ftimit prodnotfl hj duefiil diitillatitm tA difflbrtattnaipemtans. 
The erode materia is firsi heated in a retort to a temporature o^ 
about 100® Fah. This canses a light oil of a atroog odour to pass 
over into the condenser. The residue is then distilled at about 
120<> to 160«, the result being burning oil. When this is distUled 
off, steam is forced into the retort and a heavy oil, fit for lubrica- 
ting purposes^ comes over, a black, .tarry mass being left beh^d. 
The hght oil is now used as mineral turpentine, and as a greaso 
solvent. It is often of a dark color, which is easily removed by 
agitation, first with sulphttric acid and afterwards with soda^lve 
and i^rater. In many instances this light oil (^benzine) is sold ror 
illuminating pw^oses under the xuune of Sunlight Oil, Oombina- 
tion Burning Flmd, Lightning Oil, Ac. I knew one gentleman in 
Philadelphia who paid one man over $3000 for the receipt for 
making, tog^er with the sole right to manufacture, vend and 
sell, a compound of this kind in that city. The curious, or those 
interested will find the receipt undw tiie name of the "Northern 
Lightf' under the Grocer's Departaneht in this work. Trutii requires 
me to state that this article requires to be handled with great cau- 
tion Hrheu used for lighting purposes-Hoiany lamentable accidents 
havinff resulted from a careless use of it Tlie heavy lubricating 
oil, when cooled down to 30<* Fah., often yields psjrafiSne in 'large 
quantities, which is separated by straining and pNtessure. The 
asphaltum may be used for pavements, or mixed with grease as a 
1p ,.!^antfor heavy machinerv. The most important product is, 
^^ :. aver, the burning oil, which is now used as a cheap and 
efficient illuminating agent in nearlv evwy household in this 
countiy. An average sample of petroleum contains, according to 
W. B. Tegetmeier, 20 percent, of oenzine or mineral turps, 66 per 
cent, of burning oil, 22 per cent, of lubricating oil, and 8 per cent, 
of carbonaceous ana tarry matter. 

HAOEmTOSH Clotb/— The material is merely two L.^ers of cotton 
cemented with liquid India rubber; but the junction is so well 
eflfectod that the three become^ to all intmits and purposes, one. 
The stout and well-woven doth is coiled upon a horizontal beam 
like the yard beam erf a loom ; and from this it is stretched out in 
a tight state and a nearly horizontal direction ; a layer of liquid or 
rather paste-like solution is ajjpplied with a spatula^ to a consider- 
able thickness, and the doth ill draiwii unifer a knife edge which 
scrapes the solution and diffuses it equally over every part of the 
cloth, which may be 30 or 40 yards long. The doth is then ex- 
tended out on a horizontal fruuework to dry : and when dried a 
second coating is applied in the same way, ana a third or fourth 
coat if necessary. Two pieoos, thus coated, are next placed face to 
face with great care, to prevent creasing or distortion ; and, being 
placed between two wooden rollers, they are so thoroughly pressed 
as to unite durably and permanentiy. Oloth, thus, cemented and 
doubled and dried, maybe cut and made into garments which 
•will bear many a rough trial, aud many a deluging, before rain or 
water can penetrate. 

MAimtAOTUBi Of OoBN BtMLcm-^Wotft Patent. The corn is 
steeped in water, ranging in temperature from TO** to 140<> Fah., 
for about a wedc, changing tiie wAter atileaat onoe in 24 hou;«. A 



UJiCSaHJBTBf VSWSXSB,*, *0,,~ UBOSIPXa. 



861 



I 




certain amoiuii of acid ftnnfmtoiUoo ia tlm« pMdnced. cwudn^ the 
ttacch aa4 refuse of the corn to be om^I; separated afterwardi. 
iThe swollen com k gro^nd in a current at cMar soft water, and 
tho palp passed tbrongh cieres, ^th the water^ into rats. In thesis 
,the stAxch gradually settles to the bottoim the dear w&ter is then 
run off hj a tas^ and HbQ starch gathered and dried in a.proper 
^'iipartmeat for t^e, purpose. 

v.: fiBvufiKQ oy Sqoab.— »BbUi canciand beet-rooi sugar ive refined 
'on the. same principle^ bj mixture with limewater, boiUng ^Tith 
^ninud charcoalt ftnd nitration through twilled cotton. In some 
BBtablishments bullock's blood is usea to aid in the clarifying, 
^e albumen of the serum becomes coagulated on the awlicaUon 
of heat, forming a network, which rises to the the top of the liquor^ 
^arr^ng wiih it a gfeat pact of the impurities. The reddish Siyrup 
,o]bts.med by the first filtration is next passed through filtefs into 
;lfu:ge vats, twelve or fourteen feet deep, upon which are laid coarse 
^ticung, coarsely ground animal charcoal, and a second layer of 
itieking. The syrup is allowed to flow oyer the surface of the filter, 
and runs slowly through the charcoal, coming out per&cUy 
.colourless. The oonoentrated syrup is then D<nled in vacuo, by means 
.of which two important^ results are arriy^ at. The yisoid liquid 

' ■ -^ - •• ' temperature fe quantity of 

'^Tperfianningtheopeo 

-pan tne bouing point is Drought down to loO« 

or 160% no formation of uncrystalliz^able sugar takes place, and 
a great saving in fuel is effected. When the concentration reaches 
a certain poi;it, tiie syrup is transferred to a vessel heated by steam 
,to ITO'', and forcibly antated with wooden beaters, until it forms 
thick and gr&nular. From the heating-vats it is transferred into 
inverted conical moulds of the well-knowi^ shape, a,t the bottom c^ 
each of which is a movable plug. The mnrupis well stirred to 
preveivt the formation of aii-buhbles, and then left at rest for sfr^ 
iveral hours, at the end of which time the plug is removed, and the 
uncrystallized syrup runs out. The loaves are further freed from 
air colored matter by a portion of perfectly colorless syrup being 
run Uirough them. They are then dried m a ^ove and nnished 
for market by being turned in a lathe. Cruahtd or gfomdaUd, sugar 
is made by causing the granular syrnp to revolve^n a perforated 
drum, by which means the unorystallizable portion is separated 
if om the crystals by centrifugal force. 

Thb MARijfXB'a OoMPAss.— Tlie needle or magnet is said to point 
ivlways to the north, and as a matter of course the jthcr points, as 
east, west, &c., arc easily found by the 'ipedlc pointing north anO 
souUi. In. certain parts of the world, however, the needle does nob 
point to the north, but is drawn considerably 'othe right c:.' loftoi 
true north. This is caUed the varia^on of vxz compass, and must 
be known accurately by the navigator in order to correct .jid zxa&c 
the right course. For instance, in crossinff the Atlantic Ooeaa, 
the variation of the compass amounts in saiTinc; vessels tc 2jr o^ H 
points westerlfir, end the course steered must be corrected accord- 
ingly. Say that you ^rish to make a due east course, you must 
steer 2^ or 2| points south of tbat or to the right band in order to 
^ake direct course. 



258 MACHINISTS, ENOIMEEBS, AC, RECEIPTS i 



Otf the Gape of Good Hope in the South Atlantic Oceani strange 
enough, the variation ot the compass in ships bound to ladia or 
Australia^ is 2| points easterly, and in order to make a due east 
course it is necessanr to steer 2| to the north or left of her course, 
while again tovrards the equator or centre of the glob^ there is 
hardly any perceptible variation of the compass at all. The way 
of findinff out how much the compass varies in different pans of 
the world, iis by observations of the sun taken with the compass, 
and the difference between the true and magnetic or compass 
bearing is the variation^ which must be appliecTas a correction to 
the course steered. We have, however, in iron ships or steamers 
what is called the deviation of the compass to attend to besides the 
variation. This is the local attraction caused by the iron, and 
suiist be carefully understood before steamers or iron ships attempt 
to go to sea. As in steamers of the Allan or Cunard line, each 
vessel before proceeding on her fimt voyage must be carefully 
swung, and magnets fixed to the dock, besides small chains placed 
on eacn side of the compasses in boxes, in order to counteract the 
attraction of the iron. /Thus the compasses are so nicely k^lanced 
with ihB magnets and iron, that it is rare indeed at this day that 
they get out of order on a trans-Atlantic passage. The conse- 
quences to either steamer or sailing ship whose compaoses are 
astray would be terrible to contemplate, even if it werj but orie- 
half point, on dark winter nights approaching the and These 
difficulties are now happily obviated hy the discoveries of modem 
science, and their application in correcting the compass at sea. 

There are, however, other disturbing agencies constantly at 
work. Heat diminishes the magnetism ot the needle ; for this 
reason the best magnetic observatories are kepr under ground, and 
at a low and uniform temperature the year round. Earthquakes 
and the aurora bcrealis are fruitful causes of irregularity. 
Thunder-storms do no injury except when a vessel is struck and 
its iron acquires so much magnetism as to affect the correct 
indications of the compass on board. When the sun shows a great 
number of spots, or even one very large spot, the variations of the 
needle are greatest. This is accounted for by two theories ; first, 
the revolving east and west electric current of the earth's crust, 
which are the causes of the earth's magnetism, :'^'^ caused by the 
solar radiation of heat, before which the earth revolves east and 
west, and this must be affected by any change in the solar surface 
by which this radiation of beat is modified. The second theory 
contends, that inasmuch as we know from discoveries madu by the 
spectroscope, that the sun contains enormous masses of iron, which 
must, from the intense heat, be in a state of incandescence re- 
sembling a molten ocean, ana as such is inaccessible to magnetic 
influences,' nevertheless, the solar spots bein^ most likely solid 
islands (composed largely of iron which in this state is Buceptible 
of magnetic influences), floating on the sea of fire, and being in 
many cases several hundred times larger than our planet, how is 
it possible for any other than disturbing influences in the needle to 
proceed from such tremendous agencies? Such influences are 
instantaneous, and do not require time, as light and sound fo; 
instance, for their traasmission. 



I, strange 
India or 
due east 
Br course, 
t there is 
The way 
, parts of 
^ompass, 
compass 
ection to - 
■ steamers 
esides the 
iron, and 
s attempt 
line, each 
carefully 
ins placed 
teract the 
balanced 
day that 
he conse- 
)adses are 
ij but orie- 
d These 
)f modem 
bt sea. 
itantly at 
;for this . 
ound, and 
rthquakes 
egularity. 
truck and . 
ke correct 
?7S a great 
ons of the 
ries; first, 
t,h's crust, 
jed by the 
east and 
ar surface 
id theory 
,do by the 
on, which 
cence ve- 
magnetic 
eely solid 
mceptible 
being in 
5t, how is 
I needle to 
inces are 
sound for 



, MAOHUIISTS; ENQIMSEB8, AC, RECEIPTS. 259 

Making Anchors. — The anchor smith's forge consists of a hearth 
of brickwork, raised about 9 inches above tne ground, and gene- 
ralljr about 7 feet square. In the centre of this is a cavity con- 
taining the fire. A vertical brick wall is built on one side of tho 
hearth, which supports the dome, and a low chimney to carry off 
the smoke. Behmd this wall are placed the bellows, with which 
the fire is urged ; the bellows bein^ so placed that they blow to 
the centre of the fire. The anvil and the crane by which thtt 
heavy masses of metal are moved from and to the fire are 
adjusted near the hearth. The Hercules, a kmd of stamping 
machine, or the steam hammer, need not be described in this place. 
To make the anchor, bars of good iron are brought together to b« 
fagoted ; the number varying with the size of the anchor. The 
fagot is kept together by hoops of iron, and the whole is placed 
upon the properly arranged hearth, and covered up by small coalsL 
which are thrown upon c kind of oven made of cinders. Great 
care and good management are required to keep this temporary 
oven sound during the combustion ; a smith strictly attends to 
this. When all is arranged, the bellows are set to work, and a 
blast urged on the fire ; this is continued for about an hour, when 
a good welding heat is obtained. The mass is now brought fh)m 
the frre to the anvil, and the iron welded by the hammers. One 
portion having been welded, the iron is returned to the fire, and 
the operation is repeated until the whole is welded in one mass. 
The different parts of the anchor being made, the arms are united 
to the end of the shank. This must oe done with great care, as 
the goodness of the anchor depends entirely upon this process 
being effectively performed. The arms being welded on, the ring 
has to be formed and welded. The ring consists of several bars 
welded together, drawn out into around rod, passed through a 
hole in the shank, bent into a circle, and the ends welded together. 
When all the parts are adjusted, the whole anchor is brought to a 
red heat, and hammered with lighter hammers than those used for 
welding, the object beng to give a finish and evenness to the 
surface. The toughest iroa that can be procured should be used 
in anchors. Good " Welsh mine iron " is suitable ; also " scrap 
iron." 

An anchor of the ordinary or Admiralty pattern, the Trotman, 
or Porter's improved (pivot fiuke), the Honiball, Porter's, Aylin's. 
Rodger's, Mitcheson's and Lennox's, each weighing, inclusive of 
stock, 27000 lbs., withstood without injury a proof strain of 45000 lbs. 
In dry ground, Rodger's dragged the Admiralty anchor at both 
long and short stay; at short stay, Rodger's and AyliVs gave 
equal resistance; Mitcheson's dragged Aylin's ft both lO' g pad 
short stay ; and Aylin's dragged the Admirality at short ste/, they 
giving equal resistance at long stay. In ground under water, 
Trotman's dragged Aylin's, Honuball's, Mitcheson's, and Lennox's : 
Aylin'a dragged Rodger's ; Mitchison's dragged Rogers, and 
Lennox's dragged the Admiralty's. The oreaking weights 
between a Porter and Admiralty ancnor, as tested at the Wool- 
wich Dockyard, were as 43 to 15. 
PmNiwa 0^ Gi«ASB.— A FroQchman, named WUbaux, hs^s XoHixM 



^60 MACHINISTS, ENQINSERS, hO.j BECSIPTS. 

out a patent to use an elastic type for printing on glass, with 
fluorspar rendered adhesive by some such material as mucilage or 
printers ink ; sulphuric acid of suitable temperature is then allowed 
to act on that portion of the glass. The hydrofluoric acid gen- 
erated in this way would etch the glass on the places printed on. 
When completed, the wtole is washed off with warm water and 
lye. 

Ekoeavino on Wood.— In order to make this subject rightly 
understood M^e will state that the log of box is cut into transverse 
slices, 1 inch in depth, in order that the face of the cut may be on a 
level with the surface of the printers' type, and receive the same 
amount of pressure ; the block is then allowed to dir, the loneer 
the bettp", as it prevents accidents by warping and splitting, which 
sometimes happens after the cut is executed, if too ereen. The slice 
is ultimately trimmed into a square block, and if the cut is large, it 
is made in various pieces and strongly clamped and secured to- 
gether. ^ The upper surface of the wood is carefully prepared, so 
tnat nd inequalities aiay appear upon it, and it is then consigned 
to the draughtsman to receive the drawing. He covers the sur- 
face with a light coat of flake white mixed with weak jgum water, 
and the thinner the coat the bettor for the engraver. ^ The French 
draughtsmen use an abundance of flake white, but this is liable to 
make the drawing rub out under the engraver's hands, or deceive 
him as to the depth of line he is cutting in the wood. The old 
drawings of the era of Durer seem to have been carefully drawn 
with pen and ink on the wood ; but the modern drawing being very 
finely drawn with the pencil or silver point is obliterated easil;^, 
and there is no mode of " setting " or securing it. To obviate this 
danger the wood engraver covers the block with paper, and tears 
out a small piece to work through, occasionally removing the paper 
to study the general effect. It is now his business to produce in 
relief tne whule of the drawing; with a great variety of tools he 
cuts away the spaces, however minute, between each of the pencil 
lines, and should there be tints washed on the drawing to represent 
sky and water^ he cuts such parts of the block into a series of close 
lines, which will, as near as he can judge, print the same gradation 
of tint ; should ne find he has not done so completely, he can re- 
enter each line with a broader tool, cutting away a small shaving, 
thus educing their width and consequently their color. Shoula 
he make some fatal error that cannot otherwise be rectified, he can 
cut out the part in the wood, and wedge a plug of fresh wood in 
the piacCj when that part of the block can be re-engraved. An error 
of tnis kind in a wood-cut is a very troublesome thing; in copper 
engraving is scarcely any trouble, a blow with a hammer on the 
back will obliterate the error on the face, and produce a new sur- 
face, but in wood the surface is cut entirely away except where the 
lines occur, and it is necessary to cut it rl? 3p enough not to touch 
the paper, as it is squeezed through the press upon the lines in 
printing. To aid the general effect of a cut, it is sometimes usual 
to lower the surface of the block before the engraving is executed, 
in such parts as should appear light and delicate ; they thus receive 
^ qiere touch of the paper in the press, the d^r|^er pa^rt^ receiving 



MA0HINI8TS, ENQINIZRS^ &0., B£0£I£T8. 261 

the whole pressure and comii^ oat with double brilliancj. When 
careful printing is bestowed on cuts it is sometimes usual to insure 
this good effect by laying thin pieces of card or paper on the tym- 
pan, of the shape needed, to secure pressure on dark parts only. 

Papbr fOB Drauohtsmen, Ac— Powdered tragacanth 1 part, 
Water 10 parts ; dissolve aud strain through clean gauze ; then lay 
it smoothly upon the paper previously stretched upon a board. 
This paper will take either oil or water colors. 

To IcULP Straw for Papub AIarii^g.— The stjaw is placed in a 
boiler, with a large quantity of strong alkali, and with a pressure 
of steam oqual to from . 120 ta 150 pounds per square inch, the ex- 
treme heat being attained jn superheating the steam after it leaves 
the boiler, by passiug it through a coiled pipe over a fire, and thus 
the silica is destroyed, aad the straw softened to pulp, which, after 
being freed from the alkali by working it in cold water, is subse^ 
quently bleached and beaten in the ordinary rag machine. 

Nbat's Foot Oil.— After the hair and hoofs have been removed 
from the feet of oxen, they yield, when boiled with water, a peculiar 
fatly matter, which is known as Neat's Foot Oil ; after standing, it 
deposits Bocae solid fat, which ia separated bv filtration ; the oil 
thenrdoes not cong^eal at 32 ® , and is not liable to become rancid. 
It is often mixed m ith other oils. This oil is used for various pur- 
poses, such as harness dressing, oiling tower clocks, Ac. 

Tallow 0»l. — Tne oil is obtained trom tallow by pressure^ The 
tallow IS melted, and when separated from the -ordinary impurities 
by subsidence, is poured into vessels and allowed to cool slowly 
to about 80 ^ , when the stearine separates in granules, which may be 
separated from the liquid part by straining through tlanuel, and is 
tuen pressed, when it .yields a fresh portion of liquid oil. It is used 
in soap manufacture, &c. 

Lard Oil is obtained from hog's lard by pressure, when the 
liquid part separates, while the lard itself becomes much harder. 
According to Braconnet, lard yields 0.62 of its weight of this oil, 
which id nearly colorless. It is employed for greasing wool, and 
other purposes. 

Valub 07 FcBL.^With equal weights, that which contfdns most 
hydrogen ought, in its combustion, to produce the greatest volume 
of flame when each kind is exposed under like advantageous cir- 
cumstances. Thus, pine is preferable to hard wood^ and bituminous 
to anthracite coal. To produce the greatest quantity of heat, wood 
should in every case, be as dry as possible; as usually employed it 
has about 25 per cent of water mechanically combined with it, caus- 
ing an entire loss of the heat required for its evaporation. The 
different volumes of oxygen required for dif^ent kinds of coal var- 
ies from 1-87 to 3 lbs. for each lb. of coai. 60 cubic feet of air is ne- 
cessary to furnish 1 lb. of oxygen. Making a due allowance for loss, 
hearlv 90 cubic feet of air are required in the furnace of a boiler for 
each lb. of oxygen applied to the combustion. Anthracite coal. Expe- 
riments prove the evaporative power of this coal in the furnace of a 
steam boiler to be from 7J to 9J lbs. of fresh water per lb. of coal ; 
with Gannel or rdrrotcoal the result was 6 to 10 lbs. of fresh water 
uoder a pressure of 30 lbs. per square inch^ for lib. of coal. BUvr* 



^ll 



262 MACHINISTS, KNOINEIBS, &0., BEOEIPTS. 

minotu eoal burns readily, and generates steam rapidlj, leaving a 
white ash ; Caking eoal is unsuited when great heat is required, at 
the draught of a furnace is impeded by -Its caking, but it is Appli- 
cable for the production of gas and coke ; Splint or Hard eoal Kin- 
dies less readily than caking coal, but when ignited produces a 
clear and hot fire ; Cherry or Soft eoal does not fuse when heated, is 
very brittle, ignites reamly, and produces a bright fire with a clear 
yellow flame, but consumes rapidly. The limit or evaporation, from 
212^ for 1 lb. of the best coal, assuming all of the heat evolved 
fror.i it to be absorbed, would be 14*9 ibs. The evaporative power 
of Coke in the furnace of a steam boiler, and under pressure, is 
from 71 to 8^ lbs. of fresh water, per lb of coke; that of charcoal 54 
lbs. offresh water per lb. Wood wul furnish, when properlycharrea, 
23 per cent of charcoal. The slower the charring process goes on, 
the greater the production. The evaporative power of 1 cuoic foot 
of pme wood is equal to that of 1 cubic foot of fresh water ; or, in 
the furnace of a steam boiler, and under pressure, it is 4| lbs. fresh 
water for 1 lb. of wood, une cord of Mrdwoodf &nd 1 cord of «^ 
wood, such as the general average in Canada, is equal in evapora- 
tive efifects to 2000 lbs. of anthracite coal. One cord of the kind of 
wood used by American river steamers in the West, is equal to 12 
bushels, (960 Ids.) of Pittsbure coal ; 9 cords cotton, ash and 
cypress vrood are equal to 7 cords yellow pine. The densest woods 

S^vc the greatest heat, as charcoal generates more heat than flame. 
*ho ovaporativt power of peat in the furnace df a steam boiler, and 
Under pressure, is 3^ to 5 lbs. of fresh water for every lb. of fuel. 
£ituminou9 coalia 13 per cent more effective than colee for equal 
weights, and in England the effects are aliks for equal costs. In 
an experiment under a pressure of 30 lbs. 1 lb. piae wood evapora- 
ted 3.5 to 4-75 lbs. water, 1 lb. Lehigh coal, 7-25 to 8-75 lbs. The 
least consumption of coal yet attained is 1^ lbs. per indicated hors- 
power. It usually varies in different engines from 2 to 8 lbs. Rail- 
way experiments demonstrate I ton of Cumberland coal, (2240 lbs) 
to be equal in evaporating effect to 1*25 tons of anthracite coal, and 
1 ton or anthracite to be equal to 1-76 cords pine wood; also that 
2000 lbs Lackawanna coal are equal to 4500 Ids. .best pine woods. 
Blowino Enginks for Smblting. — The volume of oxygen in air is 
different, at diflbrent temperatures. Thus dry air at 85<> contains 
10 per cent less oxygen than when it is at the tempe -ature of 32^ 
and when it io saturated with vapor it contains 12 per cent less. 
If an average supply of 1500 cubic feet per minute is required in win- 
ter, 1650 feet will be required in summer. In the manufacture of Fig 
Iron, with Coke or Anthracite coaL 18 to 20 tons of air are requir- 
ed for each ton ; with Charcoal^ 17 to 18 tons are required for each 
ton, (1 tonof airat340»=29 751, and at eO® =31 366cubic/eet.) The 
Fretsure ordinarily required for smelting purposes is equal to a col- 
umn of mercury from 3 to 7 laches. The capacity of the Reservoir 
if dry, should be 15 times that of the cylinder, if'Sinele acting, and 
10 times if double acting. The area of the Pipes leading to the 
reservoir should be '2 that of the blast cylinder, and the velocity of 
the air should not exceed 35 feet per second. A ton of pig iron 
requires for its reductioa from the ore 310,000 cubic feet qi air, or 



ii! 



Ting a 
red, ai 
1 api>li- 

luces a 
ated, is 
a clear 
n,froin 
jvolved 
5 power 
sure, is 
rcoal 6h 
jharreo, 
roeson, 
ibic foot 
r ; or, in 
}S. fresh 
d of soft 
jvapora- 
I kind of 
lal to 12 
&3h and 
it woods 
in flame. 
iiler,and 
». of fuel, 
br equal 
)st3. In 
Bvapora- 
bs. The 
ted hors- 
IS. Rail- 
[2240 lbs) 
ioal,ana 
ilso that 
woods, 
in air is 
contains 
lreof32« 
ent less. 
Id in win- 
re of jPt^r 
e requir- 
foreach 
feet.) The 
to a col- 
ieservoir 
ling, and 

Sto the 
. ocit;^ of 
fig iron 
air, or 



HAOalNlfiTS, INOlNXSBd, *0., ftBOXIPTS. 263 

ft-3 cubic feet of air for each ponnd of carbon consumed. Pressure, 
7 Iba. per square inch. An ordinary Eccentric Fan, 4 foet in diame- 
tei ^ 5 blade inches wide, and 4 inches in length, set 1-9-16 
inches fCfe-ii i** ith an inlet opening of 17*5 inches in diameter, 
and an outlet o* 12 inches square, makine 870 revolutions pei min- 
ute, will supply air to 40 tuveres, each of If inches in diamter. and 
at a pressure per square inch ot '^ inch of mercury. An ordinary 
eccentric fan olower, 50 inches in diameter, running at 1000 revo- 
lutions per minute, will gire a pressure of 16 inches of water, and 
require fur its operation a power of 12 horses. Area of tuyere dis- 
charge 600 square inches. A non-condensing engine, diameter of 
cylind r 8 inches, stroke of pist«n 1 foot, pressure of steam 18 lbs. 
(mercurial gaufire), and making 100 revolutions per minute, will 
drive a fan, 4 feet by 2, opening 2 feet by 2, 600 revolutions per 
minute. The width and length of the oladet should be at least 
equal to ^ or ^ the radius of the fan. The inlet should be equal to 
the radius of the fan ; and the outlet or discharge, should be iu 
depth not less than^ the diameter, its width being equal to the 
width of the fan. When the pressure of a blast exceeds .7 inch of 
mercury per square inch, .2 will be a better proportion for the 
width ana length of the fan than that above given. The pressure 
or density of a blast is usually measured in inches of mercury, a 
pressure of 1 lb. per square inch at 60° = 2-0376 inches. When 
water is used as the element of measure, a pressure of 
1 lb. ' 27-671 inches. The eccentricity of a fan should be 
1. of its diameter. A SmitKa forge requires 160 cubic feet of air per 
minute. Pressure of blast \ to 2 lbs. per square inch, 1 ton of iron 
melted per hour in a cuyiola, requires 3500 cubic feet of air per min- 
ute. A ^'nery/or^« requires 100,000 cubic feet of air for each ton 
of iron refined. A blast furnace requires 20 cubic feet per minute, 
for each cubic yard, capacity of furnace. 

Gold Mining inColorado.— From the veins of QilpinOonnty alone 
nearly 600 tons of ore are raised daily, or 180,000 tons annually. 
Nearly 500 lodes have been assayed or mapped in a circle of three 
miles in diameter; fully a thousand lodes have been recorded, 
and more or less work performed on each. From fifteen to twenty 
mile3 of reputable lodes are known to exist, upon which there is 
not less than eight miles of shafting, the deepest being 800 feet. 
There is not less than 20 miles of drifting on these veins, follow- 
ing the ore deposit in the crevices, and the ofiBcial assays show 
the ore to be worth from $40 to $130 per ton. The tailings, or 
refuse of ore put through the stamps, are found to be worth 
$20 per ton, notwithstanding from 10 to 20 per cent of the precious 
metal passes down the stream. The average shipments or bullion 
from this one countv verges on $2,600,000 annually. The ma- 
chinery required for tnis immense production consist of 83 stamp 
mills. 185 engines in place, 4.367 horse power, and 1,697 stamps, of 
which there are over 800 in use, requiring 1,703 horse power. 
There are 39 engines used at the shafts of mines for raising ore 
from the veins and keeping them free from water. These mills 
contain from 5 to 50 stamps, mostly driven by steam. The ore, 
broken 5nto fragments, is fed into a batteiT in which the stamps 



■I' 



:. I 



404 MACHlNtflTd, BNOINllSBS, AC, 1tm01XM6?\ 



are raised and allowed to ftUl, orttefaioff the ore fine enough to 
flow through a screen placed in front. Mercury is fed in this batr- 
tery, and the pulverized ore mixed with sufficient water is then 
made to flow orer wide plates of copper amalgamated with quick- 
■iWer. The gold, or part of it, adheres, forming an amalgam with 
the mercury, which is afterwards scraped off", squeezed hard, and 
tho lump retorted in c close retort of iron for the purpose of 
vaporizing the mercury and getting the gold almost jpure ; the 
retorts berag subsequentlr shipped to the East for minting.- Each 
■tamp is oaloulaterd lo do from i to | of a ton in 24 hours, requiring 
about one hurse power to each stamp head. Most of the ore is re- 
duced in leased mills abandoned by conopanies. These mill men 
charge their customers between $3 and $4 per ton for doing^ this 
work and returning the retort of gold. The tailings are partially 
caught in tho best mills on blankets, and reworked at a profit; 
the bulk, however, passes outside, a portion stopping to be shovel- 
led into a pile, tho balance going 6a to the s tream. The waste is 
nearly or quite equal to the gross yield in bullion. The most pro- 
fitable branch of vein mining and reduction by the smeltipg procett 
was undertaken b^ Prof^ Hill in 1867, in connection with some 
Boston and Providence capitali:its, and is managed with much 
ability, energy and skill, compensated by enormous profit8,of which 
the outside public know little or nothing, from the vigilance with 
which all such information is supressed. From the road side you 
see from 20 to 30 piles of ore sending forth sulphurous emanations 
into the air. These piles are first started on a layer of wood, and 
are run up in a pyramid form some 5 to 6 feet, with a diameter 
at base of^from 16 to 20 feet, and then fired, the sulphur affording 
the only fuel, after the exhaustion of the wood, to keep the fire 
going from four to six weeks. This ore has been passed through 
the sampling works and been paid for, the amouat lying thus in 
piles at one time amounting to, perhaps, $80,000. After roasting 
sufficiently to drive off' the sulphur, and oxiaize a portion of the 
iron, these piles are cooled and the ore carried to th() smelting fur- 
naces, where, under a heavy heat, more sulphur is driven off, and the 
silica or gangue matter is made to unite with the oxide of iron to 
form a slag. At the end of the smelting some 8 or 10 tons are 
thus reduced to one called " matte," containing from $1,500 to 
$2,000 in the nrecious metals, and from 40 to 60 per cent of cop- 
per. This proauct is then shipped in bags to Swansea, England, 
for separation into the several metals contained. Tlie establish- 
ment contains three smelting furnaces and three calcining fur- 
naces, capable of reducing from 20 to 25 tons of ore per day. The 
toilings which are concentrated along the streams, and are also 
sold to this establishment, average from $35 to $40 per ton. 
These works are doubtless the most profitable of the kind known 
in the world. In working tolerably high grade sulphuretted 
ores, if the facilities do not admit of sending them to England, the 
best way is to orect a common furnace, having the fire surfaces o 
good soap stone ; then, to every 150 lbs. of ore^ put in one bushel 
of charcoal and 10 per cent of salt. The ore will readily melt to t 
•lag, and will be pretty well desulphurized. The slag can bf 



lOugh to 
Ihis batr 
r is then 
th qaiek- 
ram with 
lard, and 
irpose of 
ire 



the 



g.. Each 
requiring 
ore is re- 
mill men 
oinsT this 
partially 
a profit; 
be shovel- 
e wastd is 
most pro* 
Ing process 
with some 
i^ith much 
8,of which 
ance with 
1 side you 
imanations 
wood, and 
a, diameter 
' affording 
;ep the fire 
jd through 
ng thus in 
jr roasting 
Liou of the 
lelting fur- 
)ff, and the 
> of iron to 
tons are 
$1,500 to 
jnt of cnp- 
^, England, 
establish- 
ning fur-; 
|day. The 
,d are also 
[o per ton. 
ina known 
ilphuretted 
igland, the 
surfaces o 
one bushel 
ly melt to r 
lag can bf 



Machinists, SNOiNEBits, &c., bec]:ii>tb. 266 

drawn off, and when cold can be broken up and worked like fre« 
gold ore. 

To BxTRAOT BiLTiR 7K0M Wabti PiioDUOTS.'^-^Mix your refbae 
with an equal quantity of wood charcoal, place in a crucible and 
submit to a bright red heat, and in a short time a silyer button 
will be fonnd at the bottom. 

RiooTiRiNo SiLvm BT TIM pATio pMooiM.— -The operation 
known by this name is sometimes conducted on an immense 
scale. In one instance at the hacienda of Rerla near Real de 
Monte, there is an establishment the floor of which is 1^ acres in 
extent, built in the must substantial manner, slightly sloped to 
facilitate the flow Of water. The flooring consists of well matched 
pine boards, and this vast receptacle sometimes contains as much 
as 1000 tons of argentiferous slime, 30 tons of salt, 3 tons sulphate 
of copper, and 18.000 lbs. of mercury in Tarious stages of the 
amalgamating process. Tho reason why this takes place in the 
well known manner is becaur.o there is a correspondence between 
the different ingredients employed in the operation. 

On Corribpondinovb. — The correspondence referred to above 
consists of a nature inseminated or implanted in each substance 
by the Almightt Arohitbot of the Creation, by virtue of which 
such a mutual affinity or sympathy oxists between them that 
whenever an intermixture takes place, they as it were attract 
each other, and rush together in a mutual embrace. The science 
of correspondences is rs most wonderflil and instructive study, 
entering, in its varie^'^ ramif cations, so deeply into the inherent 
nature of every created thing, that thoro is nothing, and can be 
nothing in the universe but what comec within its consideration. 
The transcendant importance of the subject io ouch that it ia 
deserving of vastly more elaborate considerction than the transient 
notice of a. single paragraph, but siz it would be c violation of 
order to enter into an extended explanation in this place, the 
reader is referred to the appendix for further illuetration. 

Mbhoury oe Qpioksilvbr. — The ore Lj cinnabar of v, bright ver- 
milion color. Its specific 'gravity is 8098. It is produced in 
immense quantities at tho New Almaden mine in Santa Clara 
County, 12 miles from uho towu, of San Jose, which is 54 miles 
from San Francisco, Call. The procoso by which tho fluid metal 
is c-^lracted is one of great simplicity. There are 6 fuinaces, near 
which the ore is deposited from tho mine, and separated according 
to its quality : the larger mosseo are first broken up and then all is 
piled up under sheds near the futnace doors. The ore is next 
neaped on the furnaces, and o steady thoug^h not a strong fire is 
applied ; as the ore becomer heated the quicksilver is oublimed, 
and being condensed it falls by its own weight, and is conductea 
by pipes, which lead along the bottom of the furnace to small 
pots or reservoirs imb^}dded in the earth, each coutaining from 
1 to 2 gallons of the metal. Tb^e furnaces are kept going night 
and day, while large drops of minute streams of the pure metal 
are constantly trickling down into the receivers ; from there it is 
carried to the store house and deposited in large cast-iron tanks or 
vats, the kurgest of which is capable of containing 20 tons of 



166 MAOBINtStS, INOlNllftfl, AC, tlB01tt>T8. 



qniekiilrer. Seren or eight days are required to fill the famace!:. 
extract the quickiilrer and remoTO the residuum. The minerg a ad 
thoM who merely handle the quicksilrer are not injured thereby, 
but thote who work about tho ftirnaces and inhale the fumes ot 
the metal are seriously affected. Salivation is common, and the 
attendants on the furnaces aro cempelled to desist from their 
labour erery three or four weeks, when a fresh set of hands is put 
on. 'The horses and mules aro also salivated, and from 20 to 30 of 
them die every year from the effects of the mercury. 
OaoooB PowDiR roB Poubhino.— Ghlorido of sodium and cul* 

ftbate of iron are well mixed in a mortar. The mixture is theu put 
nto a shallow crucible and exposed to a red heat ; vapor escapee 
and the mass fuses. When no more vapor oocr,pes, removo tho 
cruciblo and let it cool. The color of the oxide or iron produced, 
it the fire has been properly regulated, is a fine violet *, ii the heat 
has beeu too high it becomes black. The mass when cold is to bo 
powdered and washed, to separate the sulphate of soda. The 
powder of crbcus is then to be submitted to a process of careful 
olutriation, and tho finer particles reserved for tho more delicate 
work. An excellent powder for applying to razor strops is made 
by igniting ^gether in a crucible, equal parts of well dried green 
Titrol and common salt. The boat must dc slowly raised and well 
regulated, otherwise the materials will boil over in a pasty state, 
and be lost. When well made, out of contact with air, it has the 
brilliant aspect of black lead. It requires to be ground and elutri- 
ated, after which it affords, on drying, an impalpable powder, that 
may be either applied on a strop of smooth buff leather, or mixed 
vp with hoffh'a lard or tallow into a stiff cerate. 

OiioiNTiNO EiiiBT TO WooD. — Melt together equal parts of 
Bhellac, white resin and carbolic acid in crystals ; add the last after 
the others are melted. 

To Goat Ibon with Embbt. — Give the iron a good coat of oil 
and white lead, then when this gets hard and dry, apply a mixture 
of fflue and emery. 

To Olban Oottoti "Wastb. — Pack the waste in a tin cylinder 
with a perforated false bottom and tube withstop-cock at bottom. 
Pour on the waste bisulphide of carbon sufficient to cover, and 
allow to soak a few minutes, then add more bisulphide, and so on 
for a time or two, and then squeeze out. tiy simple distillation, 
the wholo of the bisulphide, or nearly all, can easily be recovered 
and so be used over again This will tree the cotton completely 
from greasti 

Blowino out Stbaic Boilbbb.— This should never be done under 
Stoam pressure. The safety valve should first be raised until the 
pressure is all removed by letting the steam escape as rapidly as 
possible, thenthe hand hole {)late or other device should be opened, 
and the dirt and sediment will run out with the water. But if the 
boiler is allowed to cool off, the dirt will settle to the bottom and 
be fastened pn with the heat. The dirt is always on the top of the 
water when thero is any pressure of steam on it. 

BoiLBB ScAJUi. — Sal soda, 40 lbs., fum catecha, 5 lbs., sal am- 
ttioniac, 6 lbs., is strongly recommended by an experienced person 



/or p 

vach 

soda 

long 

boilei 

Mu 

parts 

milde' 

aqueo 

limes 

water, 

To] 

treme 

the h( 

urine, 

part oi 

appliei 

Fbbi 

umber 

After r 

areadij 

permao 

PtAT 

Elated, 
ailing 
and gra 
nickel i 
manner. 
Fins J 
it eat in 
thin film 
appearai 
mtric a 
copper, 
surface ; 
Liquid 
pontine, 

COPPBI 

copper ai 

To Ha 

compoait; 

may aldo 

Copper ta 

The speci 

copper, tb 

moro than 

Good B 

i oz. 2. ; 

3. Wheelt 
Unaeiout. 
Lathe But 
Copper, 88 



lers a ad 
thereby, 
fumes ot 
and the 
)m their 
da is put 
) to 30 of 

and cul* 
theu put 
ir escapes 
novo tho 
arodttced, 
'the heat 
d is to bo 
)da. Tho 
)f careful 

delicate 
8 is made 
ricd greea 

1 ana well 
wty state, 

it has the 
and elutri- 
wder, that 
>, or mixed 

parts of 
> last after 

)at of oil 
a mixture 

cylinder 
it bottom, 
jover, and 
land so on 
istillation. 
recovered 
Completely 

lone ander 
I until the 
Irapidly as 
l)e opened, 
(But if the 
Mtom and 
I top of the 

., sal am- 
kea person 



MACHINIBTS, ENQINXEBS, &0., BE0IIPT8. 267 

for removing boiler soale, one pound of the mixture being added to 
oach barrel of water in the tank ; after scale is removed use sal 
soda alone. By the use of 10 lbs. soda per week a boiler 26 feet 
long and 40 inches diameter was cleaned from scale equal to a new 
boi^r. 

MiLoiw ov Sails can be prevented by loaplng the mildewed 
parts and then rubbing in powdered chalk. The growth of the 
mildew fbngus can be prevented by steeping the canvas in an 
aqueous solution of corrosive sublimate. Another toay. Slacked 
lime 2 bushels, draw off the lime water, and mix it with 120 gals, 
water, and with blue vitriol ;| lb. 

To MiMO Okaouo Oast-Ibon Ymbils.— Drill a hole at each ez« 
treme end of the crack, to prevent its further extension, plus rivet 
the holes with copper, and, with fine iron filings saturated with 
urine, caulk the crack. Four parts of pulverized clay and one 
part of iron filings made into a paste with boiling linseed oil and 
applied hot is a good cement for the same purpose. 

FuHOH Pdtty.— Seven pounds linseed oil and 4 lbs. brown 
umber are boiled for two hours, and 62 grammes wax stirred in. 
After removal from the fire 6^ lbs. fine chalk and 11 lb3. white lead 
are added and thoroughly incorporated ; said to be very hard, and 
permanent. 

Plating with Xiokil may be effected by placing the object to be 

Elated, either of iron, steel, copper, bronze, sine or lead, in a 
oiling neutral solution of zinc chloriae containing a salt of nickel 
and granulated zinc. If the zinc solution is acid, the coating of 
nickel is dull. A plating of cobalt may be made in the same 
manner. 

Fink Blui Finish for Gun Barrils.— Apply nitric acid and let 
it eat into the iron a little ; then the latter will be covered with a 
thin film of oxide. Clean the barrel, oil and burnish. A very fine 
appearance is given to gun barrels by treating them with dilute 
mtric acid and vinegar, to which has b *en added sulphate of 
copper. The metallic copper is deposited irregularly over the iron 
surface ; wash, oil and rub with a hard brush. 

Liquid Blacx Lkad Pojsb.— Black lead pulverized 1 lb., inr- 
pentine, 1 gilL water, 1 gill, sugar 1 oz. 

CoppsRAS Dip for Cast Iron. — Dissolve 'lbs. of sulphato of 
copper and add 2 fluid ozs. sulphuric acid. 

To Hardin Mitals.— Iron, 60 parts, chrome. 40 parts, form o 
composition as hard as the diamond. A high degree of nardness 
may also be imparted to iron or steel bv adding ^ part of silver, 
Copper iQay be externally hardened by the tumcs of zinc and tin. 
The specula of Lord Ross's telescope is 1 part tin and 1 part 
copper, this is as hard as 6teel, and takes a very high polish^ if 
mora than this be added it will scarcely cohere. 

Good Brass fob Maohinbrt.— 1. Copper^ 2 lbs-, tin, 2} ozs., zinc, 
i oz. 2. Tottah Brass. Copper, 10 ozs., tin, 1^ ozs., zinc, 1^ «ozs. 
3. Wheel* and Valvet. Copper, 90 lbs., tin, 10 lbs. 4. UrasSf very 
tenaeioua. Copper, 88.9 parts, tin, 8.3 parts, zinc, 2.8 parts. 6. 
Lathe Bu*he$. Copper, SO parts, tin, 20 parts. Machinery Bearings. 
Copper, 88 parls, tin, 12 parts. 



>"■ 



'■' 9. 









yts 



26S VAOfilHIiTS, ENamE&BS, AO., tLtO^t&l^di 

^ Paint »oe Shiit Irjm Sicokb ?ii-». — Good rarnish ^ gall oil, 
boiled Imseod cU ^ gallon, add red lead suffibient to bring to the 
coniitteacj of common paint. Appir witb a brush. Applicable 
to Attf kind of iron work exposed to the weather. 

Black Oolos on Bbabs Wobk.— Makea strong solution of nitrate 
of filrer in diie divh ai. t nitrate of cop^r in another. Mix the two 
to;76tber. and plunge in the brass. ' iNow heat the brass erenly till 
the rsoured degree of dead blackness is acquired. Unrivalled as a 
beantinil color on optical instruments. 

MiTALiiio Bath itob IiiipaBura.— Use a black lead or cast iron 
crucible, (of the requisite depth) and place the same, filled with 
iead, on a fire inade of cool or charcoal, and surrounded on all 
Bides hj a metallic or bHck wall, leyel^ or nearly so, with the top 
jof the crucible \ but at lB. sufficient distance i^saj 5 or 6 inches) 
pom it to receive the fuel necessary to maintain the fire, in order 
|to k«iep the lead in a mAlced state. Let the crr.cible rost on iron 
bars, and loave apertures to admit air to the fire. The articles, 
islightlj gteaiBed to prevent the adherence of oxide, ai*e immmrsea 
pn the mv.lt;jd lead (which is kept at a red heat) by means of tongs, 
jtwo ox three pairs being generally used, in order that one or two 
' leces may be heatcl while the other is undergoing manipulation 
y the hardening pi ocess. Keep the lead covered with charooal 
ust or cinders. Thid plan is used by many cutlers and,file mann- 
'acturcTB for giving the proper degree of heat in the tempering of 
heir v»ares. The process is highly valued by those who oio it 
{Bee filo manufacture, page 238. 

£l«80TS Oy NAT OV VJUtlOXTB BOHntS. 



Fine (iold melts. 

I •• Silver " 

I^opper ^elti 

Troaght Ii«Q melts 

^jUt " " 

Iriffht red " in the dark. 

led hot " in twilight. 

nais melts 

[Common fire , 

~inu8melti.. 

Lirfomaoe 

kntimoPv ludlts 

Msmuth " 

[Cadmium 

^ted 

n^d 

lin 



1260 
2648 



3479 
762 
884 

2877 
790 

1900 

8800 
961 
476 
000 

2600 
604 
421 



Heat, ohenr red 1600 

" bright " 1860 

" retfvlaiblebjrday 1077 

" white '.. 2900 

Meroory boils 663 

y volatilixem..... 680 

Platinum melts 3080 

Zinomelts 740 

Highest natural temperatore 

„(Kgypt)r... 117 

Greatest natural cold (below 

'seroi 66 

" artificial '• " 166 

Heat of human blood 98 

Snow and Salt, equal parts. . . 

loe melts 82 

Water in Dacuo boils 98 

Furnace u' der steam boiler. . 1600 



SnaiNKAOx ov oas^iass. 



Iron, small oyliud's— -l-16th in. perft 

I " Pipes = ^ " "ft. 

" Gurders, beams, 

eM = I in. in 16 ins. 

." Large oylind- 
era, the con* 
traotion of di- 

ameter at 10)?..= l-16thper toot- 
Ditto at bottom. . .= l-12th perfect. 



ins. 
«> 



Ditto, in length...^ in 16 

Brass, thin. .zs i in 9 

Brass, thick = | in 10 " 

4ino = 6-16th8 in a foot 

Lead = 6-16tn8 " " 

Copper ..«= S-ieths " " 

Bismuth =a!6'e2nd8 " <* 



A, 

jring to tiie 
Applicable 

on of nitrate 
Mibc the two 
)8 oTenlT till 
rivalled a» a 

, or cast iron 
e, filled with 
mded on all 
with the 4op 
or 6 incbef) 
fire, in order 
J rest on iron 
The articleB. 
aito immersed 
eans of tongt, 
at one or two 
manipulation 
with charooal 
and,file manu- 
) tempering of 
Be who use it 



}60O 
1860 

day 1077 

^ .... 2900 
...... M» 

•;.. 880 

*..... 3080 

'. 740 

:]^tttr6 ^^^ 

id (b^ow 

166 

d 98 

parts... ^ 

M v.".'.'.".'.'. 98 
boile*.. 1600 



in 16 ins. 
4in9 V- 
}i»10 •' ^ 
46thajn a toot 

:6-16tfii" " 

, 8-16th« " 
:5<«hidt " 



Green sand iron castings are 6 per cent, stronf than drj^ and 
30 per cent, strooger than ebiiled, but when the castings are call' 
led and annealedjj. a gain of 116 percent, is attained over those 
made in green sand« OhiUisg toe under side of oast iron Terj 
materially increases its strengUi. 

Ino» lUxui'AOTvuk-~Chareoal 188 bnsheli^ limsstone 432 IIm., 
and ore 2612 lbs., mill pcodnee i ton of pig iron. In England, 
temperature of hot blast is eoo<*, densitj ofblastaad of refining 
furnace 2^ to 3 lbs.* per squwe inch. ReTolntioas at paddling 
rolls 60 per minnte ; rail toiUj 100 ^ rail saw, 800. 

HoBcin rowan (upioatbo) naQuxan^ ven nimnBaiurr rnocassaa. 



Blast Fttfluwe. 00'^ 

Reaning " SS 

f uddlink BoUs with iqaeezers 
and snesN.../ i 80 



itallwafrtdUng train. flOO 

SmaU bar train.... ^ 60 



DopblaraU saw....,, 
^t%^ten^g....... 



<« 



One pound of Anthracite coal in a enpbla furnace irill melt from 
6 to lO'lbs of cost iron; Sfousfaels of Mtaminons eoa! ^illmelt 1 ton 
of casttfon. Small ooal prodnces about |of tbd eiFect^ large 
coal oi the same kind 

YiLooiTDU OF Wood Wobkuto MAOBimntT. — C^etttar lUdwa at 
peripherj, 6000 \o 7000 ft. per minate ; BandSatoa, 2600 {i»et ; Githg 
SatoSf 20 inch stroke, 120 strokes per minute; i9m;/^ Sawa, 300 
strokes per minute; Planinff Maehitu CuttiB^a at periph^t, 4000 to 
6000 feet Work under planing machine J^th of an inch foreacb 
cut. MouLding Muohine CtitUra, 8500 to 4000 f^t: ISquarinff-np 
Machine Cutters, 7000 to 8000 feet; Wood Garmny DrUU, 5000 re- 
ToloUons ; Machine Augwe, Ih in. diam.. 900 retolutfons; ditto, f 
in, diam.^ 1200 revolutions ; Gang 8awa re(iuire for 45' superficial 
feet of ^me per hour, 1 horse power. Circular Savn reomreTS" 
superficial feet per hour, I horse power in oilk or hard wood Iths of 
the aboTe quantity require 1 horse power ; Sharpening Anghe of 
JUachine Cutters. Adzing soft wood across the grain, 30^ ; Plan- 
ing Machines, ordinary soft wood 35° ; Gauges and Ploughing 
MaehineSf 40^' ; Hardwood Tool Cutters, 50^ to 55°. 

FLonn Mill. MA.OHIWSRT.— For each pair of 4 feet stones, withal! 
the necessary dressing machinery, etc., there is required 15 horses' 
power. Stones^ 4 ft. diam., 120 to 140 revolutions per minute. 
Jhessii^ Machines, 21 ins. diinn., 450 to 500 revolution^ per 
minute. Elevator, 18 ins. diam., 40 revolutions per minute. 
Creepers, 3) ins. pitch, 75 revolutions per minute . Screen, 16 ins. 
diam., 300 to 350 revolutions per minute. 788 cubic feet of water, 
discharged at a velocity of 1 foot per second, are necessary to 
grind and dress 1 bnshel 6f wheat per hour=l .40 horses* power per 
bu3|iel. 2000 feet per minnte for tbti velocity of a stone 4 feet in 
diam. may be considered a maximum speed. 

Water. — Fresh Water. The component parts by weight and 
measure is, Oxygen, 88.9 by weight, and 1 by measure. Hydrogen. 
11. 1 by weight, and 2 by measure. One cubic inch of distilled 
water at its maximum density of 39". 83, the barometer at 30 
inches, weighs 252.6937 grs., and it is 828.6 times heavier than at* 






I 



! 



S70 MAOBlNtgfS, iNOti^ltftS, M., tittm^ts' 

mospherie air. A cable fdot weighs 998.068 ouaces, or 62.37925 
lbs. avoirdupois, but for facility of computation the weight is 
usuallj taken at 1000 ounces and 62.6 lbs. By t)ie British Imperial' 
Standard, the weight of a cubic foot of water at 62«, the barome- 
ter at 30 ins.=998.224 ounces. At a tetaperatnre of 212<* its weight 
is 69.625 Ibii. BeloW 30«. 83. its density decreases at first rery 
slow, bat prog^Bsing rapidly to the point of congelation, the 
weight of a cubic Toot of ' ice being but 57.25.35- ^4 cubic 
feet of water weigh a ton.- 3913 cubic feet of ice weigh 
a ton. River or canal water contains /nth of Its Tolume 
of gaseous matter ; spring or well water A th. Sea Water — A 
cubic foot of it weigfis 64.3126 lbs., 34'.83 cubic feet Weigh 1 ton. 
Sea water contains from 4 to 5| ozs. of salt in a gallon of water, 
Tai^ine according to Ideality, and 62 volumes of carbonic add in 
1000 of water. Dr. Arnott estimated the extreme height of the 
waves of an ocean, out on the open sea and free from any influence, 
of land, to be 20 feet. The French exploring expedition computed 
waves of the Ptvcific to be 22 feet. !Flie average force of tite wav os 
of the Atlantic Ocean during the summer months, as determined 
by Thomas Stevenson, was 611 lbs. per square foot ; for the Winter 
months, 208d lbs. During a heavy gale a force of 6383 lbs. was 
observed. Deatructiiu ^hct qf Sea water uporilMetaU and Alliii^i 
per tquare foot. Steel 40 grs. ; iron 38 ; copper 9 ; sine 8 ; galva- 
nizea iron 1.5 ; tia 2. 

Warmiko BciLDiKas on Apartmbhts — By lowpretture gleam (Ifto 
2 lbs.} or hot water. — One square foot of plate or pipe surface will 
heat irom 49 to 100 cubic feet of inclosed space to 75^ in a latitude, 
where the temperature ranges from— -lO^, or 10" below aero. The* 
ranee from 40 to 100 is to meet the conditions x>f exposed <x comor 
buUoings, of buildings 1?8S exposed, as the intermediate ones of a 
block, and of rooms intermediate between the front and rear. As 
a general' rule, 1 sonare foot will heat 75 cubic feet of air la outer 
or front rooms, ana 100 in inner rooms. By High PreenHre Steam 
— ^When 8t«tm at a preKSure exceeding 2 lbs. per square inch is 
used, the space heated by it will be in proportion to its increase 
of temperature above that pressure less the increased radiation of 
heat in its course to the place of application. One cubic foot of 
water evaporated is required for every 2000 cubic iieet of inclosed 
space. 

AsPHALTio Mastio. — Is composod of nearly pure carbonate of 
lin e and about or 10 per cent, of bitumen. When in a state of 
powder it is mixed with about 7 per cent, of bitumen or mineral, 
pitch. The powdered asphalt is mixed with tlie bitumen in a 
melted state along with clean gravel, and onsistency is given to 
pour it into moulds. The asphalt is ductile, and has elasticity to 
enable it, with the small stones sifted upon it, to resist ordinary 
wear. Sun and rain do not affect it, wear and tear Ao not seem to 
injure it. The pedestrian in many cities in the United States and 
Canada, can readily detect its presence on the sidewalk by its 
peculiar yielding to the foot as he steps over it. It is also a most 
excellent roofing material when rightly applied, it bein? on record 
in France that a stout roof of this material withstood the acciden- 



62.37926 
reight is 
Imperial' 
barome- 
ts weight 
iwt very 
ktion, the 
64 cubic 
;e weigh 
9 Tolume 
Water— A 
igh 1 ton. 
1 of water, 
lie a6id in 
fht of the 
jT influence 
computed 
the wa-vca 
leiermlned 
the winter 
83 lbs. was 
md All6if'» 
I 8 ; galTa- 

rtttfm (1| 'to 
lurface will 



alatitude. 
aero. The' 
dor comor 
e ones of a 
1 rear. As 
sdr in outer 
8anre Steam 
are inch is 

ts increase 
radiation of 
able foot of 

of inclosed 

arbonate of 
n a state of 
. or mineral, 
pumen in a 
[is given to 
Wastloity to 
Ist ordinary 
|not seem to 
States and 
mlk by its 
|also a most 
; on record 
le acciden- 




. MACHINISTS, EN0INEEB8, &0., RECEIPTS.^ 271 

. tal fall of a stack of chimneys, with the only effect of bruising the ' 
mastic, readily repaired. 

. Tauros Wobth Knowing.— 1. sAm^ JotVU, quiek tettinff: Sal- 
i,ammoniac, pulverized, 1 lb.; flour of sulphur, 2 lbs; iron borings 
80 lbs , mix to a paste with water in quantities as> required for im- 
mediate use. 2 Quiek uttrnff *oint better than the la^^ but reauirei 
more ttiM to ut. Sal ammoniac, 2 lbs. ; sulpi'ulf, 1 lb. ; iron filings, 
206 lbs. 3. Air and vater-txght cement for CPtkt and cisterns : 
Melted giue, 8 parts ; .mseed oil, 4 parts ; boUed into a varnish 
with litharge hardens in fortv-eigbt hours. 4. Marine Glue : 
India rubber part coal tar, 12 parts ; heat gently, mix, and add 
20 parts ot powdered sbellac j pour out to co'>l, when used, heat 
to about 250 <3 . 5. Another ak.o . Qlue, 12 parts ; water suflicient 
to dissolve : ada yellow resm, 8 parts ; nielt. then add turpentine, 
4 parts ; mix thoroughlv together. 6. Water-proqf varnish for 
harness , India rubber, ^ Id. ; spirits ot turpentine I gal. ; dissolve 
to a jelly, then take hot aoseed oil, equal parts with the mass, and 
incorporate tbem weh over a s.ow fire 7. Blacking for harness : 

irpentme, 1 oz.; 
I, ^ QZ. ; melt the 

' ingredi is belbre the mixture is quite 

eold^ make it into balls.' rtib a little upon « brush, ap^ly it upon 
^harness and polish hehtiy with silk 6. 4nti-/rtctton jfrease: 
Tallow, iOO lbs. ■ palm on, 70 lbs b6il togetner when cooled to 
80 o, strain through a leve, and mi^ with'28 lbs. sodft and i^ ga^s. 
water. For winter take 26 lbs. more oil in place of the caUow. 

9. Anotner Pulverized blacc lead,' 1 part; lard, 4 parts, mix. 

10. BwtKs s^itway Axle Urease .* Water, 1 eal. ; clean tallow, 3 'bs., 
palm oil, 6 lbs. common soda, i lb. or tallow a lbs.', palm oil, 10 
lbs. Heat to about 212 o, and stir well until it cools to 70*=>. 

11. To remove Id Iron motUds : koisten the par^ stained with in£, 
remove this by the use of murlaticacid diluted by five or six times 
its weight of water, when the oia and new stains will be removed. 

12. Wmewash/or outside work lack lime, ^ bushel, in a barrel ; , 
add common salt, 1 lb ; sulphate of zinc, i lb., Bweet milk, 1 gal. ; 
bring to a proper consistence witk water, and apply with a white- 
wash brusb. Asphalt compo^tioni MinenJ pitcn, 1 part ; bitumen 
II parts; powdered stone or wood aehes, 7 parti. i4. Composition 
far streets and roads Bitumen, 16.875 parts asphaltum, 226 parts 
oil of re8in,6.2 partr and sand 1*35. Thickness from H to 1| inches. 
Asphaltum, 66 lbs., and gravel, 78.7 lbs. will cover an area of 
IO1.75 square feet. 16. Cement for external use: Ashes, 2 parts; 
clay, 3 parti; sand, 1 part mix with a little oil, very dirable. 
16. Cement for Shoemakers and Channelers India rubbei^ dissolved 
to a proper consistency in sulphuric ether. 17. Mortar. Lime, I 
pakt: clean sharp sand, 2^ parts. An excess of water in slaking 
the lime swells the mortar, which remains light aiid porous, or 
shrinks in drying: an excess of sand destroys the cohesive pro- 
perties of the mass 18. Stone mortar Gement, 8 parts ; lime, 3 
parts, an 31 parts of sand. 19. Brown mortar Lime, I part ; 
sand, 2 parts, and a small quantity of hair. 20. Brick mortar : 
Uei^ejit, 3 parts; lime, 3 parts, sand, 27 parts. Iav^ and sand, 



272 MACHU(I8T0, SNQINEBRS, kO., BE0EIPT8. 

and o«m«iit and tMnd, leiaen shout \ in Voliime #Len mixed to- 

S ether. 21. Turkish mortar: Powdered brick and tiles, 1 part; 
ne sifted lime, 2 parts ; mix to a proper coBsistenoy with water, 
and lay on layers of five or six inches thick between the couraeM of 
brick, or stone, being useful on massive or very solid buildings. 
22. Inttrior plaaterinff — Coarae atuf: Oommon lime mortar, as 
made foi: brick masoniy, with a small quantity of hair ; or by 
volumes, lime paste (30 lbs. lime) 1 part ; sand, 2 to 2i pai1» ; 
hair 1-6 part. When full time for hardening cannot be allowed, 
substitute from 15 to 20|)«r c«n<. of the lime by aneqnal portion 
of hydraulic cement. For the second or brnum coat the proportion 
of hair may be slightly diminished. Fin* ttuf(\ia» putty) : Lump 
lime slaked tp a paste with a moderate Tolume of water, and after- 
wards diluted to the consistency of cream, and then to harden by 
evaporation to the required consistency for working. In this itaite 
it is used for a slippea coat, and when mixed with sand or plaster 
of Paris'it is used for ihefinMhing coat. Gauge stuff or Hard-Finiih 
is composed of 3 to 4 volumes of fine stuff and 1 volume of plas- 
ter of Paris, in proportions regulat'^d by the degree of rapidity 
reauired in oardening for cornices, &o., the proportions are-«aual 
voluines of ^acb, fine stuff and plaster. Stucco is composed of 
from 3 to 4 volume^ of white sand to 1 volume of fine stuff, or lima 
putty. Scratch coat : the first of 3 coats when laid upon laths, and 
IS from i.to f of an inchjin thickness. One com work .* Plastering 
in one coat without finish, either on masonry or laths, that ni, 
rendered or laid. Two coat, work : Plastering in two ooats is done 
either in a layin^f coat and eet or in a screed eodt or tet. The 
Screed Coat if also termed a Floated Coat. Lading the first coat 
in two ooat work is resorted to in common work instead qf 
sreeding, when the finished surfhco is not required to be exact to 
a straight edge. It is laid in a ooat of about i inch in thicknesi. 
The layiag coat, except for very common >« Tk, should be Aanei* 
floated, as the tenacity and firmness of tha work is much increased 
thereby. Screeds are. strips of mortar, 26 to 28 inches in width, 
and of the required thickness of the first coat, applied to the angles 
of a room, or edge of a wall and parallelly, at intervals of 8 to 8 
feet over the Siurmce to be qovered. When these have become suf- 
ficiently hard to withstand the pressure of a straight edge, the 
interspaces between the screeds should be filled out flush with 
them, SQ as to produce a continuous and straight, even surface. 
Slipped Coat is the smoothipg off of a brown coat with a small 
quantity of lime putty, mixed with three per cent of white sandso as 
to m4ke a comparatively even surface. This finish answers when 
the Burfaoe ia to be finished in distemper or paper. Bard Fintsh: 
Fine stuff applied with a trowel to the deptti of about ^ of an inch. 
Eabth DiQQi]i&'-''^umber qf cubic feet qf earth in a ton. Looap 
earth 24: coarse sand ^8-6. Clay 18-6. Earth with gravel 17-8. 
Clay wito gravel, 14*4^ Common soil 15*6. The volume of earth 
ana sand in bank exceeds that in embankiuent in the following 
propot<ti(M}8 ; sand f, clay h. gravel ]^f , and the volume of rock in 
embankments quarried in large fra^ment^ ex(^9d9 thf^t i^ bfto^ 
fall^ one hftlf, 



Ee 



Ml 



f, \ 



ibtedto- 
1 pftH; 
h water, 
Duraeiof 
uildings. 
>rtar, ai 
r ; or by 
i parte; 
allowed, 
1 portion 
roportioa 
'): Lump 
gind after- 
larden by 
tbk«ta«e 
}r plaster 
irdFiniih 
le of plas- 
\f rapidity 
I are-Moal 
Doposea of 
iff, or lime 
ilath8,Hnd 
Plastering 
18, that i^t 
ftts is done 
^ set. The 
first coat 
InsteAd of 
M exact to 
thiclinesi. 
bo hand' 
inoreased 
in width, 
theaogks 
I of 8 to 5 
come suf- 
edge, the 
[flush with 
surface. 
_ a small 
sandsoas 
;eFS when 
d Fintah: 
)f an inch. 
Loose 
lavel 17-8. 
_ of earth 
following 
f rock in 
iX^ b»a^ 



\ 



, MACHINISTS, ENaiNJSUBS, AO^, RECEIPTS. ^ 273 

EeTUf ATB or MATKBIAbS XVp lA;BOa FOK lOO B^tlTAaJI TAWM OV LATH 

A^rxiAeraa. 



tfitierlslt 
and JLabor. 



Three Costs 
Hard flnish 



Lime...... 

Lump Lime 
Plaster of 

Paris... 
Laths.... 

Hair 

Sand 



Two Coits 
supped 



4 CaaU. 
t " 



4 bushels 
6 leads. 



SiCasks. 

2000 «• 
8 bushels 
6 loads 



Materials' 
aiid Labor. 



White Sand 
NaUs..... 
Masons... 
Labourer. ., 
Cartage. . 



rhreeCoi 
aard flnlshj 



2^ bushels 
18 lbs 



roooatfl 
Slipped. I 



U lbs. 
8|daT8 

■■«.*• 



Tbkba Cotta MANurAOTPii.T-In the terra cotta manufacture of 
the north of England and Scotland, the purest lump* of fire day 
are selected by thieir color and texture, luid used ajtone without 
any other day, while Uie firms near London prepsure more care- 
fully ^ mixl^re of clays, which produce a body of bietter texture. 
One of the cbief difficulties met in manu&cturi^g terra cotta 
figures and ornamental wprks is the contraction the day suffers 
after it has left the mould; first, in drying ; afierwfl^rd£L in firing. 
By ii^ixing the clays,a further advantage is gained in llie diminished 
abnnlcage, as fire clay terra cotta (that is, unmixed) shrinks in lineal 
d^ensipns about 12 per cent from the time it leaves the mould 
Qjlititlt leaves the kiln ; the mixed clay terra cotta shrinks S per 
cent or less, and red clays shrink 3 per cent. To <)nbance the 
durability of l^e body of terra cotta, a partial ▼itriScat^a of .:ah 
mass is aimed at b|y adding clays and substanoes whfph oontain a 
siqall ambunt of lukalies which act as a flux to fuse the body 
harder ; also vitrifying ingredients, pure white river ^and, old fire 
brick, ground fine, previously ground Qiay called " s^og." are 
added m various proportions, amounting even to 96 per cent. 
They counteract excessive shrinkage, act as vitrifying elements, 
and l^eep the color lighter. In the manufacture the mixture of 
clays IS ground un^er an edge runner to thd consistency of flour. 
Tbe.miUs bave eitner revolving or stationary pans ; the former do 
the most work, in order to mix and incorporate the difBerent 
Qlays, d Bubsecjuent careful pugging is required, for which hot 
water is sometimes used. The mixture, when brougl^t to the pro- 
per homogeneous consistency, is placed in a plaster mould, dried 
near the kilns or otherwise, and baked in a Ijuln for five or seven 
days, during which time it is slowly brought to a white beat, and 
as gi^adually cooled down again. In order to avoid twisting and 
warping dunng the firing, it is necessary, besides complete mixing 
of clays, that the mould be shaped so as to give a uniform thick- 
ness of material throughout, aud if the temperature of the kiln 
be wdl graded, the homogeneous body will not warp. To cheapen 
terra cotta building blodcs, they are made hollow, and filled^ dur- 
ing the construction, with concrete or cament. Although in the 
kilns the productions are separated from the wares, it is found that 
the use of sulphurous fuel darkens and tarnishes the surface, ivnd 
it is to be avoided. This material admits of being used with the 
jpeatest facUit^ in the formation of the paqst ela^praie f^rchiteq- 



274 MAOHINISTS; ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

1 

toral ornaments and btber beautiful designs, which can be multi- 
plied to any required extent at a rerj cheap rate. A piece of four 
inch column tested at the 1851 Exhibition required a pressure of 
400 tons per square foot to crush it, or as much as good granite 
. and two to three times as much as most building stone. 

Blastimo Rooks, &c.— In small blasts 1 lb. of powder will 
loosen about 4^ tons. In large blasts 1 lb. of powder will loosen 
' about 2^ tons ; 50 or 60 lbs. of powder, inclosed in a resistiuff bag 
hung or propped up against a gate or barrier, will demolish any- 
ordinary construction. One mau can bore, with a bit 1 inch in 
diameter, from 60 to 60 inches per day of 10 hours in granite or 
300 to 400 ins. per day in limestone. Two strikers and a holder 
can bore with a bit 2 ins. in diameter 10 feet per day in rock of 
medium hardness. 

Labour om Embakkmbmtp. Single horte and cart. A borse with 
a loaded dirt cart employee in excavation and embankuiei(t, will 
make 100 lineal feet, or 200 feet in distance per minute, while 
moving. The time lost in loading, dumping, awaiting, etc, =4 
minutes per load. A medium laborer will load with a cart in 10 
hours, 01 the following earths, measured in the bank : Oravclly 
earth 10, Lmim 12, and Sandy earth 14' cubic yards ; carti are loaded 
as follows : Descending haulinoj ^ of a cubic yard in bank, Level 
haulinff ^ of a cubic yard in bank ; Ascending hauling, | of a cubic 
yard m bank. Looeenina ^c. In loam, a ttiree-horse plow t3nll 
loosen from 250 to 800 cubic yards per day of 10 hours. The cost 
of loosening eaxth to be loaded will be firom 1 to 8 cents per cubic 
yard, when wages are 106 cents per day. The cost of trimming 
and bossing is about 2 cents per cubic yard. Scooping^ A seoop 
load will measure Vtj of ^ cubic yard, measured in excavation. The 
time lost in loading, unloading and trimming, per load, is \^ 
minutes. The time lost for every 70 feet of distance, from excava- 
tion to bank, and returning is 1 minute. In Double Scoopimij the 
time lost in loading, turning, &c., will be 1 minute; and m Single 
Scooping, it will be-lj minutes. (Bllwood M<yrris.) 

HAULiim Stonb — A cart drawn by horses over an ordinary road 
wiirtravel 1*1 miles per hour of trip. A 4 horse team will haul 
from 25 to 36 cubic feet of lime stone at each load. The time 
expended in loading, unloading, Ac. including delays, averages 
35 minutes per trip. The cost of loading and unloading a cart, 
using a horse cram at the quarry, and unloading by hand, when 
labour is $1.25 per day, and a horse 75 cents, is 25 cents per 
perch=24.76 cubic feet. The work done by an animal Is greatest 
when the velocity with which he moves is ^ of the greatest with 
which he can move when not 'Tipeded, and the force then exertea 
•45 of the utmost force the animal can exert at a dead pull. 
, Hat. — 270 cubic feet of new meadow hay, and 216 and 243 from 
large or old stacks, will weigh a ton, 297 to 324 cubic feet of dry 
clover weigh a ton. 

^Whhel orSABiNa. — The Pitch Line of a ^srheel, is the circle upon 
which the pitch is measured, and it is the circumference by which 
the diameter, or the velocitv of the wheel is measured. The Pitch, 
Is^the.arc of the circle of the pitch line^ and is determined by th9 



be mnUi- 
)ce of four 
)re8iare of 
)d granite 

wder will 
B^ill loosea 
isting bag 
aolisE any 
1 inch in 
granite or 
i a holder 
in rock of 

horse with 
Luieilt, will 
nute, while 

a cart m 10 
: : Oravclly 
s are loaded 
bank, Level 
\oi9> cubic 
» plow tjrill 
I. The coat 
its per cubic 
)f trimming 
g^ A scoop 
ration. The 
load, is 1^ 
rom excavar 
the 
ngle 



Kl 



Unary road 

I will haul 

The time 

79, averages 

Ling a cart, 

[hand, when 

cents per 

is greatest 

reatest with 

Ihen exertea 

)uU. 

id 243 from 
feet of dry 

[circle uijon 
le by which 
\ The Pitch, 
Ined by th9 



MAOHINISTSj ENQIMEEBS, &Q., BEOEIPIS. 275 

number of teeth in the wheel. The True Pitch, (chordial), or ih*t by 
which the dimensions of the tooth of a wheel are alone aetenmned, 
is a straight line drawn from the centres of two contiguous teeth 
upon the pitch line. The Line of Centres, is the line between the 
centres of two wheels. The Radius of a wheel is liie semi-diameter 
running to the periphery of a tooth. The Pitch Radiu*,, is the semi- 
diameter running to the pitch line. The Length qf a tooth, is the 
distance from its base to its extremity. The Breadth of a tooth, is 
the length of the face of wheel. A Uog Wheel, is the general name 
for a wheel having a number of cogs set upon or radiating from its 
circumference. A Mortice Wheel, js a wheel constructed for the 
reception of teeth or cogs, which are fitted into recesses or sockets 
upon the face of the wheel. A Cog Wheel is the general term for 
a wheel having a number of cogs or teeth set upon or radiatiug 
from its circumference. A Mortice Wheel, is a wheel constructed 
for the reception of teeth or cogs, which axe fitted into recesses or 
sockets upon the taco of the wneel. Plate Wheels, are wheels 
without arms. A Ra^k is a series of teeth set in a plane. A Sector 
is Ci wheel vrhich reciprocates without forming a full revolution. 
A Spur Wheel, is a wheel having its teeth perpendicular to its axis. 
A Bevel Wheel, i3 a wheel having its teeth at an angle with its 
axis. A Croum Wheel, is a wheel having its teeth at a right angle 
with its axis. A Mitre Wheel is a wheel having its teeth at an 
angle oi' 45'^ with its axis. A Face Wheel, is a wheel having its 
teeth sut upon one of its sides. An Annular or Internal Wheels is 
b wheel having Its teeth convergent to its centre. Spur Oear^ 
Wheels which act on each otlur in the same plane. Bevel Gear, 
Wheels which act upon each other at an angle. Wien the tot>th' 
of a wheel is made of a diflSsrent material from that of the wheel, it 
id termed a cogx in a pinion it is termed a leaf, and in a trundle it 
is termed a atave. A wheel which impels another tB termeG the 
spur, driver, or leader: the one impelled is the j)*m'on, driver, or/ol^ 
lower. A series of wheals in connection with eaph other is termed 
a train. When two wheels act; on each other, the greater is termed 
the wheel and the lesser thermion, A Trundle, Lantern, or Wat- 
lower is when the teeth of a pinion are constructed of round brass 
solid .cylinders set in two discs. A Trundle with less than dght 
staves cannot be operated uniformly by a wheel with any number 
of teeth. The material of which cogs are made is about one fourth 
the strength of cast ir^n. ^Buchanan rules that to increase or 
diminish the velocity in a given proportion and with the least 'Quan- 
tity of wheel^work, the number of teeth in each pinion should be tw 
the number of teeth in its whoel as 1, 3, 59. Even to savo space 
and expense, the number should never exceed 1; 6. The least num-> 
ber of teeth that it is practicable to give to a wheel is regulated by 
the necessity of having at least one pair always in action, in order 
to provide for the contingency of a tooth breaking. The taeth of a 
wheel should be as small and numerous as is consistent with strength 
When a pinion is driven by a wheel, the number of teeth in the 
pinion should not be less than eight. When a wheel is driven by a 
pinion, the number of teeth in the pinion should not be less than 
t«n. The number of teeth in a wheel should alwayc; be prime tQ 



I: 



k;J 



il'IJ 



I 



m 






?!*■■! 



2Y6 iuemmsTB, mmtmwUf *o., rsoeipts. 



M 



1;fae nntaber of thu pltAon, that hi, the nutiifb«r of teeth itt the wheel 
Bhould ttot be diritiMe by the ntudbeTdf teeth in the pinioh irithout 
& t^tatiAiAvc : thil is in ordier to pietietit the wune teeth comitig 
ta|;eitfaer ^o oflen as to cause an irregalat wear of their fkeefs. Aa 
0<ra tooth i&troduoed ititb a irheel is tenned a hwUing tooth ot eog. 
To ootkptrn TBI Rtntflm or tiara nnQuiBfto m ▲ trasm or wmiLa 
TO plioDtJOti A tmkB VKLOoixt. Rule.— Huttiply the number of 
tbeth iii the drirer by its ntnubet of rtorblutfotiS; and divide Ibe 
product by tiie number t>f xeroltitioni of each pinibn, for Mtfeh driter 
and pinion. 

Etcmple.-^W a dviter in a train of three wheels has 90 ^tkand 
makeer 2 revoltttions, and the YdlodtieH required are 2, 10, ttna 18, 
what are the numbet of teeth in eikch of the other ttiro. 
10: 90: : 2 . m^teeth in 2hdiche4L 
18 : »0: : 2 ; VO^teeth in 3HI Hfheel. 
To ooMPtrrfe Tin vtAWStim or ▲ WHikL, /Su^e.— K^ltipfy tine ntitn- 
her of teeth by the pitch, and divide the product by 3, l^B. 

j^asttmpfe.— The number Of tedtfa in the Wheel is T5, tod fhe pHch 
1, et5 ins : WlMt is mie «ia«Q«ter of n? 

tS X 1.6765 

, ^ ^— *22lOlfn«. 

3.1416 
To 00IA>tn^ tfii TtttfB OB OHOBDIAL viTOB, Euh.—DWito 180 !>▼ 
the nmnbet of teeth, ascertain the Bine of the quotient, and i&atti- 



plj it by the diameter of the wheel. 
^^ - — - - - - 



^xartple.-^fha nutttbMr Of teeth is 76, and the diameter 40 inthes; 
what is the iirae pitofa t 
180 

**-*^te2024' and «n. Of 2!(»24'^. 04188, Whi<Jh x40*li«W2 iaSi 
75 

Hott'isOoiipOSinMr j*oit PtaMim^ RollAbs.— This eoto^tb of glue 
sOht m<^Bi88eS, the propoiHions varyi&g fVom 8 lbs. of ^Jtue ki sukn- 
itter, to 4 lbs. ill wlntetfbt each ^iOloh df i]ttola8Ses. The vlue 
ilhould be pladed'J^^ an houi^ in ia btieket, covered with water, tSen 
ipOuif the wateir 0^ and allow the glue to soften. Put it into a 
Kettle and heait h tinftil thotooghly melted ; if too thtek a little 
Wat^ maybe added, trastly.lhe motasses is added an^ Well 
Btitted ih With t»e ^ue. When properly prepared an houir's boil- 
inig Will be sufficient, m too mutcn boiling is apt to dAndy the mo- 
lasses. A late improvetnent consists in the addition of glycerine 
to the viSTXkX mixture. Swab the mouM with oil before poilriug. 

OBiffifttrT V(m PSTBOiiCil Lamps.— Bdl 3 parts Of ressiti with 1 
feai of caustic soda aud 6 of water. The eot^podition is then 
"ttiiied with half its Weight of plaster of Piaris, aM sets firinly in ^ 
-to I of an hour. It is of great adhesit^ poWer, not permeable to 
petroleum, a low conductor ctf heat, and but supetfiiciAlIy attacked 
hj hdi water. 

To DinOBizi BfeNfimti.-'Sfaake repeatedly With plumbate of soda 
(oxide oil lead dissOlted in caustic soda), and rectify. The follow- 
ing plan is said to be better. Shake repeatedly With fresh portions 
of metallic oulck ailver ; let it stand for 2 days, and rectify. 

Spboiwc Obayity.— Is the demiity of the matter of which any 
body is composed, compared with the density of another body 



i« wheel 
■without 
L cmiiing 
ee«. Aa 
{A or <MV- 
rwimiia 
imber of 
llvide «be 
tehdriter 

t«e%and 



f fibe utttxi- 

41B. . ^ 

d the ^ttch 



riae 180 J7 
and t^^^' 

er4di]&the8', 



L;8t52 tolli 



„Ate of flodft 
fThefollow- 

BBh portions 

ctify. 

Which wj 
lothet body 



MAOBINlSTf), EMQINEKBS, AO., RIOlIPTS.y JTTj 

•mmtmA -at t^^ «t*Qdu^. or 1000. This itandiurd ii pvro cUstiiletf 
w«ter tot liqtliaff and soIuIb. abd atihoepiherio luir foirgaaeou bodies 
iind yapora Thui tA golot is 19 and silver 10 times heayier than 
water, Vbbtb numbers 19 and 10 are said to represent the speotfio 
grayi^ of -gold and iBilyer. the heaviest known substance is iridi- 
um, used for pointing rgold pena; its specific gravity is 23. 
The lightest of all liquids has a specmc gravity of 0*6., it is called 
tshimogene, and is maie tram petroleum, it is exceedioffly volatile 
and combustible, being in fact a liquefied gas. Oarbomo acid gas 
tt 6h6ke ffomp is 600 times lighter than -. )tei. common air, 80Q, 
street gas about 2000, and pure hydrogen ^ae lightest of all sub- 
stances, 12,000 tloMs. The heaviest substance has th\m 23X12,009, 
or m<>re than a quarter 6f a million times more weight than aa 
equal bulk of the lightest ; and the substance of which con^ets con- 
sist, has by asttonomets been proyed to be even several thousand 
i^aies ligBt^r than hydrogen s^^. 

To Galvanizb Grit Isoli UAStivas.— Cleanse the artioles in an 
ordinary chaffing mill, which consists of a barrel revolving on its 
flocis, containing sand ; When the 6at:4 iB all remOyed|^ take them 
out and heat one by one, plut^'ng, While hot^ in a liquid composad 
*sfoIloWs lOlbs. hydrocboricacia'and sufficient sheet zinc to auikie 
a Saturated sohition. In making this sdluiion, when, the evolutioa 
'Hf.jUa has ceased, add muriate, ot biMfefably sulfate of ammonia, 
1 IS., and let it stand till dissolved. Th^^ castings shouM be so 
hot tluit when dipped in this solution, and instantly removed, th^ 
Will immedifttely dry, leaving the surface crystallized like frost 
work on a window pane. Next pluntfe them whileliot> but perfectly 
dry, in s. bath of melted zinc, previously skimming the oxido on 
1^6 sttir&ce aWay, and throwing thereon a small amount of powder- 
fA sail Antitrouiac. If the ai'ticles are, yeii^ small, inclose them in a 
wroinght iron basket dn a pole, and lower them into the saetal. 
When this is done, shake off the superfluous metal, <and cast them 
into a vessel of water topi^ieht them adhering when the aino 
golidifies. 

To Ptmirt PiTRoiKtrtt Ott Kircsbni; Oil.— The distillate or 
eit'nde burning oil is conyetted into prdinary ourning oil by beins 

Slacedina tank when it is violently ag;ttate.d by forcingair ttffongh 
;,jand while thus agitated, U to 2 per cent., sulphuric add is 
added, after which the agitation is continue^ 15 to 30 minutes; 
The oil is ,thea allowed to settle, when the acid an^ impunities 'are 
remidiyed, and any acid remaining in the oil is neutralized. It is then 
taken to shallow bleaching tauKS, whe)« it is exposed to light and 
air, and allowed to settle, tt is next heated by means of a coil of 
steam pipe running through it, to expel iE^llgaseous vapours which 
wiUigOite at a temperature below 110® Fahr The oil is now 
CBMedhfiti^tgst oil, aud is ready to be barreled and sent to market. 
Kerosene oil ia deeplortzed by stirring it up wiih 1 or ^ per. cent, 
of oil of vittiol, which will carbonize the coloring matter, tbea 
With some milk of l&ne or some other caustic alkali, -settling^ 4aA 
re-<»'stilling. 

To Ftiost PoLisHBD SnviR.— Cyanide of potassium 1 o^.i dis^ 
Solve in } pt. of water. Do not hola the silver in your hands, bnt 
use pliers made of lance wood or box wOod, and apply the mixture 
with a brnsh to the polished surface. 



I'J^7S\^/ yLACmtHBTHf inginxers, AO., bicjeiptb. 

« . 

To BuTOM BoRNT Oa8t Sthii..— Boti. > Ibf .. sal ammonUio 
^ lb:, pniBsiate of potash i lb., rosin, 1 oz. Pouna the above ooe, 
add a gill each of water and alcohol, and boll all to a stift paste 
in an iron kettle. Do not boil too long, or it will become nard 
when cool. The burdt steel is dipped while quite hot in the com- 
position and slightly hammered. 

YiLLow DiFPiito MiTAL.— Melt together 2 parts of brass, 1 part 
copper, with a little old brass, and^ oz. tin to every lb. of copper. 
This alloy is almost of the color or gold coin. 

SiLVBRiNG Hooks and Btbs, &o.— The small iron articles are 
suspended in dilute sulphuric acid until the iron shows a bright 
clean surface. After rinsing m pure water they are placed in a 
bath of a mixed solution of sulpnate of zinc, sulplu^te of copper 
and cyanide ot potassium, and there remain until tboy receive a 
bright coating of brass. Lastly, they arc transferred to a bath of 
^nitrate of silver, cyanide of potassium and sulphate of soda, in 
which they quiclcly receive a coating of silver. 
^ To AtPLY D<OALooia)«i Pioturbs.— Varnish the pictures care- 
fully with the prepared varnish, (which can be obtained with the 
pictures), with an ornameating pencil, being carefUl not to get the 
varnish on the white paper. In a few minutes the picture will be 
ready to lav on the panel, and the paper can be removed by wet- 
ting it, and when thoroughly dry, it tliould be varnished like an 
oil painting. Be particular to purchase only those tranter pict- 
ures which are .covered with a gold leaf on the back, for they wilt 
show plainly on any colored surface, while the plaJA ^pictures are 
used only on white or light ground 

GoMPOSiTiOR Ornaubmts vor Picturb Frauis, &o.— Mix as 
much whiting as vou think will be required for present use, with 
thinish glue, to the consistence of putty; and naviug a mould 
ready, rub it well all over with sweet oil, and press your composi- 
tion in it I take it out and you have a good impression, which you 
may set by to dry : or, if wanted, you may, before it gets hard,.apply 
it to your work with thick gluis, itnd bend t into the form required. 

Drill Lubricator. — For wrought ii^on use 1 lb. soft soap mixed 
with 1 gal. boiling water. It insures good work and clean cut- 
ting. 

Obhbnt v6r Embrt on Wood. — Melt together equal parts of 
shellac, white rosin, and carbolic acid in crystals ; add the last 
after the others are melted. An unrivalled cement. 

Wbioht of Earth, Rocks, &o. — A cubic yard of sand or ground 
^weighs about 30 cwt. : mud, 25 cwt. ; marl, 26 cwt. ; clay, 31 cwt. ; 
'chalk, 36 cwt. ; sandstone, 39 cwt. ; shale, 40 cwts. ; quartz, 41 
cwt. ; granite 42 cwt. ; trap, 42 cwt. ; slate, 43 cwt. 

To Dbtbrminb Wbight of Livb Oattlb. — Measure in inches the 

{(irth round the beast, just behind the shoulder bliiie, and the 
ength of the back from the tail to the fore part of the shoulder- 
blade. Multiply the girth b^ the length, and divide by 144. If the 
firth is less than 3 feet, multiply the quotient by 11. If between 3 and 
feet, multiply bv 16. If between 5 and 7 feet multiply by 23. If 
between 7 and 9 reet multiply by 31. If the animal is lean, deduct 
^, from the result, or take the girth and length in feet, multiply the 
•quare ot the girth by the length, and multiply the product by 



MAGUINI8TB, ENQIMEEBS, &C., BJfiCElPTS. 279 



iminoQi#o 
tboye flae, 
itift paste 
omo Dard 
. the coin- 
11 
aas, 1 part 
of copper. 

■tides are 
s a bright 
tlaced in a 
of copper 
jr receive a 
) a bath of 
of soda, in 

itures care- 
fd with the 
t to get the 
ture will be 
red by wet- 
led like an 
an^fer piclt- 
or they wilt 
pictures are 

b.— Mix as 
at use, with 
ig a mould 
ir composi- 
which you 
hard,,apply 
•m required, 
soap niixed 
clean cut- 

al parts of 
,dd the last 

d or ground 
ay, 31 cwt 
quartz, 



41 



n inches the 
^e, and the 
le shoulder- 

144. If the 
itween 3 and 
»ly by 23. If 
lean, deduct 
multiply the 

product by 



3.36. The result will be the answer in pounds. The live weight, 
multiplied by 6.05, crives a near approximation to the net weight. 

To KkpAiR THi niLVBBiMO or MiRBORs.— Pour upon a sheet of 
tin toil 3 drs. df quicksilver to the square foot of foil. Hab smartly 
with a piece of buckskin until the foil becomes brilliant. Lay the 

glass upon a flat table, face downwards, place the foil upon the 
amaged portion of the glass, lay a sheet of paper over the foil, and 
Slace upon it a block of wood or a piece ot marble with a perfectly 
at surface ; put upon it sufficient weight to press it down tight ; let 
it remain In this position a few hoitrs. The foil will adhere to the 
glass. ' 

pBMOUi<i Fon Writing oir Glass.— Stearic ibid 4 pts.. Mutton- 
suet, 3 'pt3.,wax 2 pts ; melt together and add 6 pa^ts of red lead, and 
1 pt. purified carbonate' of potassa, previously triturated together ; 
set aside for an hour in a warm situation, stirring frequently ; then 
piour into glass tubes or hollow reeds. ' * ""' " 

MoDBLLiNa Lay.— Knead di^ clay with glycerine instead of 
water, and a mass is obtained which remains moist and plastic for 
a considerable length of time, being a great convenience for the 
modeller. 

" Asphalt fob Walks. — Take 2 ptS., very dry lime rubbish, and 
1 pt. coal ashes, also very dry, all sifted fine. In a dry place, on a 
dry day, mix them, and leave a hole in the middle of the heap, as 
bricklayers do>when making mortar. Into tills poUr boiling not 
coal tar ; mix. and when as stiff as niortar, put it three inches thick 
whore the walk is to be ; the ground should bo dry and beaten 
smooth ; sprinkle over it coarse sand. When cold, pass a light 
roller over it; in a few days the walk will be solid and water- 
proof, k , 

FoLisHiNO PowDBR FOR SpEciTLA.— Precipitate a dilute solution 
of sulphate of iron by ammonia in excess; wash the precipitate ; 
press it in a screw bress till nearly dry ; then expose it to heat 
until it appears of a dull ted color in the dark. 

j'ACTb FOB QAB OomPANUDS AND GaS OONSUMBRS.— PMrt/?«r» — Dry 
purifiers require 1 bushel of likie to KKOOO cubic feet of gas, and 1 
superficial root for evety 400 ciibic feet of gas. Wet purifiers 
require 1 bushel of lime mixed' With 48 bushels of water for every 
10,000 cubic feet of gas. Retorts — A retort produces about 600 
cubic feet of gas in 6 nours with a charge of about 1^ cwt. of coal, 
6r 2800 feet in 24 hours ; 1 ton of Wigan Ganncl has produced cpke, 
1326 lbs. ; tar, 250 lbs. ; ^as, 338 lbs. ; los^, 326 lbs. Pictou and 
Sidney coal has produced 8000 cubic feet per ton ; 1 lb. peat 
will supply gas for 1 hour's light. Exposed lights require about 
5 cubic feet ; internal lights reqiiire 4 cubic ft. pe^ hour. Large 
burners require from 6 to 10 cubic feet per hour. A cubic foot of 
gas, from a let '^rd of an inch in diameter and height of flarae 4 
mcnesj will bum for 65 minutes. Rosin Gas — Jet .^y, flame 5 inches, 
1 J cubic feet per hour. In winter the average duration of in,ternal 
lights per day is 5.08 hours ; in summer it is 2.83 , id spring it is 
3.41; anid in the fall 4.1l5. Street lamps in New York city con- 
sume 3 cubic feet of gas per hour. In some cities 4 and 6 cubic 
feet are consumed. Fish-tail burners for ordinary coal gas con- 
sume 4 to 5 cubic feet of ~as per hour. The standard o/yas burn- 



m 
i 



y 






MXCBtBtBTBf INOINIIM} kO., Bl'TIIPTB. 

fnif ii A It Wl« 4.KK»n(ii lamp, iiit«rn*l dUm«ter .44 inob, ehidm^ 
$ lOChM in height; Qoniumpiian 6 cubic feet per hour, g ividg 4 
light ttim ordiotfT coal giu ofTrom 10 to 1^ ciuidleB, with OMbel 
00*1 from 2R) to 24 candlei, iwd with the coals of Pennayivimia 
ft&d Virginia of lirom 14 to 16 oandles. Lou qf Light by Olau 
G<o6««— ulear glau 12 |>er cent, hfjf gtoond 35 oer cent, fUll 
ground 40 per peat l^e preuorewitfa wmch gaa ie forced through 
^ipea sfaoiud eeldom exceed U inohei at the works, or the leakage 
wul exceed the advantages to oe obtained from increased preature. 
When pipes are laid at an inclination either above Or below the 
hoiicoo, a coneotiop will have to be loade in e<ttimatin|[ the sup^ 



iPly, hj adding or deducting A^ of an inch from the initial pifes* 
sure for everTTcot of riM or rail in the length of the pipe. By e]»> 
;ferimeiiL 30,000 cubic feet of gas, sp. gr. -A were discharged in an 
liour through a main 6 inches in diameter and 22.6 feet in length, 



^riment 
liour thrdugn 

.and 862 eupio feet, sfecific gravity. 398 were discharged undef 
.'a head of 3 ins. of wiiter, thrviurh a main 4 ins. in diam. and 6 miles 
in, leogthu tiOM of volume, if duM^hairffB^ bj friction, in apipe 6 in. 
dTaib. ana 1 mile in length is estinHated at 95 per cent. In distill- 
ling 60 lbB(. of coal ^ volifme ofgasjuroduced in cubic feet when the 
atstiliilitioii wfs oflbcted in 3 hours was 41.3, in *l hours 37.6, in 
:20 hburs 33.6, and in 26 hours 31.7. The time of explosion is about 
'th6 27(h part of k seooad, and the resultant temperature 2474<*. 
Got Engitut—hi. the Lenoir engines, the best proportions of gas 
and air are, for common gu, 8 volumes of |iir to 1 of gas, and Tor 
tonael gas 11 of ^ to 1 of ns. An engine having a cijlinder of 4| 
inehes aiameter, and 9j^ incbatroke of pistoni making 186 re volu- 
tions per minute, develops a power or hatf i hoii'ie. 

Tq Buiovb Dsposit oj* (jarbon vrom Olat Ritqrtb.— LMitb 
the retort uncharged for 48 hpurs^ dr as lobg as can be fPafed. 
Tut the lid on the moiith-piece so as to be dosed at top, and op^n 
2 ot three rndMS at the bottom. Take out the etopper frpm stand 
nipe, so as to allow a current of air to padfl thrbuipn the retort «na 
b^dize the carbon; i^se no bar. Put in ft chi^ge ot coal after 
the retort has lain idle the number of hours repaired, «&d when ft 
Is Withdrawc the carbon eooaes with it. 

To Mbmd Iron BatoBTiB.— #ire claj 15 Ib|.,,sialeratus, 1 lb. vHt|i 
wateif sufficient to make a thick paste. Apply to the broken part 
of the retoft while at a good working liSat, then cover it wiui a 
fine coal dust, and charge the retort for working. 

To dto^ Lkaks in Clay Rbtobtb Wbbm At WoibEUm HsAt.— 
five pBrts fire clay, 2 parts white sand. 1 part of borax pressed and 
l^roubd. Mix the whole together with as much water as may be 
neceSBaitf to bribed it to the consistence of putty. Roll it in the 
hands to a proper length and apply it over the crack, presising it 
Vith a long spatula into the crack. 

To PBflVBNT 0a6 IIbxbbb f&6u FRnssiNd.— Q4If B pint Of good 
l^lyeeHtie ii said to ptttvent the feezing of Igal. water, though 
at lei^t double the p^Ojportion is preferable in Uie country, wbatr 
etet the temoerMuf e.in the winter may happen to be. 



280a MAOBIIflBTS, XNQIRUBSy «0., KIOBI^S. 



If AOMarinD Watoh WoBCi.~«Th« only oure ii to p«k in « gold 
or braaa balance and new pendnlam iprinf. The mott intense 
hent will not. emdicAte the trouble. 

OmonrT ior LiATHin.— Bleulphide of onrbon, on. ; tiek goftta 
perolie, 1 oa. Tlie Istte.' if lihe thin catlj euTingg of iMtber 
and nuit be added a little at a time. Oork vp tlgfai, jttid H ii fit for 
osing in 10 or 12 houn. 

To RamiR Liakaoib im Fan Eiioivi Hoei<— PaM a roaod bar of 
iron intc the hose under the iMk then riret on a. patch of leather, 
preTionslj coated with marine glue. 

Aquaria OuiniT.—Mix equal quantities of dry white lead and 
red lead to a paste with mastic yarnish. and lise as soon as mixed. 

Nkw Htbam Paokimo.— I'ake long ooils or cpntinuous strands of 
flax or hemp loosely twisted, or better still, with scarcely i^ny twisty 
saturate these coils in melted grease or tallow, and giye them a 
{^ood thorough coating wi^ as much black lead or plumbago 
(finely pulrerized), as the laaterial will absorb. It is a mott sqpe- 
rior article. 

Papir Friction Pmjunrs.— These fluperitn* meohanlcal eogitri- 
▼anees are made by cutting pieoes of pasteboard into a cir^lar 
form, and of the desired diaiaeter of the pnUmr, and plaoing them 
in layers one on the top of another, oemeating profMrlj with a 
good coat <^glue between each layer, poooding or pcMtinf them 
together as dose as jxMsible, and leaving a periwa^en Ja t«e ^ntre 




side of the pulley with a good stout iron flange la^je eooiif h to 
cover the entire diameter, or i^arly so, a«d with proper utageit 
will last a long time. 

QUANTITT AMD OoST 0I> BUPPLlia lOB BoBifM AlTD LoMVIRttO 

Osaws IM TBI WooD8.-~The following figur«| have been kinaiv 
fyunisfaed for this work by the obliging manager of Meassrt. Gif- 
mour's mill on the Gatineau, near Ottawa, Oanada, and aire most 
valuable as adbrding a basis for calculatinff the quantity and 
juality of the BupplieB required for men and oorses engaged in 
tnis branch ofindnstr^. Tnese calonlatioas are the reBuu.of long 
experience in tiie buBiaesB, and are based on raotnfel c;oiuiamption. 
Quantity of Oats for efKMx span of lipxMB, 61 Ibs^ d^. 



II 


Flour used by each man 


i.ao 


it 


(1 


Poric 


« 


II 


OM 


ii 


u 


Beef 


II 


II 


It 


II 


Beans 


11 


II 


Oids 


(1 


« 


Fish 


II 


It 


0.12 


II 


<i 


Onions 


II 


II ' 


oaa 


It 


u 


Potatoes 


II 


II 


t).47 


It 



Total duly consumption per man 492 

Quantity of Tea used " 1^ lbs. per month. 

The dail^ allowance of oats for each iplm oi horses may appear 
large, but it must bo remembered that the labonJ: ic extremely 






fffl 






m 

■ (i: ; i; 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 280J 

severe, and more hay will be required if any part of the oats is 
witheld. On making enquiry with reference to the item of 
molasses, so largely used by our lumbering friends in New Bruns- 
wick and Maine, the answer returned was that owing to the heavy 
cost of the commodity, it was entirely omitted from the list of 
supplies. The following exhibits the comparative value of Mess 
and Prime Mess Pork, calculated from actual consumption : — 

MeM Pork. Prime Mesa. Mess Fork. Prime Mess. 



$26 $18 80 

25 18 08 

24 17 35 

23 16 62 

21 15 89 

21 15 16 



20. 
19. 
18. 



••• ••••••• 



$17 $12 24 

16 V 11 51 

15 10 78 

14............ 10 05 



12......;.. ;:l.iwi:.;..... 



9 32 
8 59 



14 43 11..;... 7 86 

13 70 10 7 13 

12 97 9 6 40 

1 Barrel Mess averages 37 lbs. grease, 6 lbs bones, when cooked 

1 » Prime Mesa 2-3 « 13 " " 

ToDGH Type Mbtal. — Lead 100 parts, antimony 32 parts, tin 8 . 

To Repair Graokid Bbllb. — The discordant tones of a cracked 
bell bieing due to the jarring of the rugged uneven edges of the 
crack against each othei, the best remeay that can be applied is to 
cut a thm slit with ft toothlesc saw driven at a very high velocity, 
say 3 or 4,000 revolutions per minute, in such a manner as to cut 
away tho opjt)Osing edges of the fracture wherever they come in 
contact This will restore the original tone of the bell. 

To Shparatb Tin from Lead.— If the lead and tin are in solution 
precipitate the former by sulphuri# acid and the latl^er with sul- 
phuretted hydrogen gas. In an alloy th? lead will dissolve in 
nitric acid, leaving the tin as an oxide. 

Ornamental Designs on Silver. — Select a smooth part of the 
silver, and sketch on it a monogram or any other design you 
choose, with a harp lead pencil, then place the article in a gold 
solution wii> ihq battery in good working order^ and in a snort 
time all the parts not sketched with the lead pencil will be covered 
with a coat of gold. Aftet cleansing the article, the black lead is 
easily removed by the fingers, and the silver ornament disclosed. A 
gold" ornament may be produced by reversing the process. 

Fusible Metal for Casts. — Bismuth, 8 parts, lead, 5 parts, tin 
3 parts. It will melt at 200 « , or under boiling water. For male 
casts use tin only. 

Printer's Ink. — Linseed oil boiled to a thick varnish, and a 
sufficient quantity of vermillion or Prussian blue ground with it to 
give the required depth cf color. 

To Repair Leaks in Lead Pipes. — Place the point of a dull nail 
over the leak, give it a gentle tap with a hammer and the flow of 
water will cease. 

To Improve Printer's Rollers. — The French composition pre- 
vents damp rollers and otherwise improves them. It is made as 
follows : for a 24 inch roller take Russian isinglass \ oz. ; gelatine 
\ oz. ; when the usual compositiou, (see page 106,) is ready fot 
pouring, add the above to it, let all boil \ hour longer, and cast in 
the usual way. 



•T8. 280i 

f the oats is 
the item of 
I New Bruns- 
j to the heavy 
n the list of 
'^alue of Mess 
ption : — 

Prime Mess. 

$12 24 

11 51 

'..'Vi 10 78 

10 05 

9 32 

........... 8 59 

?jh.:iU. 7 86 
..;........'... 7 13 

6 40 

when cooked 

parts, tin 8 . 

of a cracked 

edges of the 
e applied is to 
high velocity, 
mer as to cut 

they come in 
pell. 

ire in solntion 

tt^e^ with sul- 

dissolve in 

Sart of the 
esign you 
icle in a gold 
nd in a snort 
^illbe covered 
black lead is 
disclosed. A 
jcess. 

d, 5 parts, tin 
Br. For male 

rnish, and a 
and with it to 

of a dull nail 
id the flow of 

position pre- 

[t is made as 

oz. ; gelatine 

is ready fot 

r, and cast in 



/>' 



trSEFVL ITEMS FOR DAXLT JLEMEMBRANOX. 281 



On MsLTiNd AND KsrnnKO.— In melting Brass Oold^ urge the 
fire to a ^ai heat, and stir the metal with the long stem of a 
tobacco pipe to prevent honey combing. If Steel or IronJUing' 
get into gold while melting, throw in a piece of sandiver the size 
of a common nut ; it will atttiict the iron or steel from the gold 
into the flux, or, sublimate of mercury will destroy the iron or 
steel. To cause Oold to roll welly melt with a good heat, add a 
teaspoonful of sal ammohiac and charcdal, equal quantities, both 
pulverised, stir up well, put on tho cover for 2 minutes and pour. 

For Silvkrsmiths, Stbrlino Silver.— 1. Fine Silver 11 o«, 2 
dwta., fine copper 18 dwts. 2. Equal to Sterling — Fine silver 1 
oz., fine copper 1 dwt*, 12 grs. 3. Another ditto— fine silver 1 oz., 
fine copper 5 dwts. 4. Common Silver for Chains — Fine silver 6 
dwts., fine copper 4 dwts. 6. Solder for ditto — Fine silver 16 dwts., 
fine copper 12 grs., pin brass 3 dwts, 12 grs. 6. Alloy for Plating 
— Fine silver 1 oz., fine copper 10 dwts. 7. Silver Solder— Fitai 
silver 1 oz., pin brass 10 dwts., pure spelter 2 dwts. 8. Copper. 
Solder for Plating — Fine silver 10 cwts., fine copper 10 dWts. 
9. Common Silver Solder — Fine silver 10 ozs., pin brass 6 ozs. 12 
dwts, spelter 12 dwts. 10. -Silver Solder for Enamelling, %\ptr oz. 
—Fine silver 14 dwts, fine copper 8 dwts. 1 1. Ditto, for filling 
/signet Rin^s — Fine silver 10 ozs., fine copper 1 oz. 16 dwti., fine 
pin brass 6 ozs 12 dwts., spelter 12 dwts. 12. Silver Solderfor 
Oold Plating — Fine silver 1 oz., fine copper 6 dwts.-, pin brass 5 
dwts. 13. Quick Silver Solder— Fine silver 1 oz., pin brass 10 
dwts., bar tin 2 dwts. 14. Imitation Silver— Fine silver 1 oz., 
nickel 1 oz. 11 grs., fine copper 2 ozs. 9 grs. 15. Anoth&r ditto — 
Fine silver 3 ozs., nickel 1 oz. 11 dwts., fine copper 2 ozs. 9 grs., 
spelter 10 dwts. 16. Fine Silver Solder for Filigree Work. — Fine 
Buver 4 dwts. 6 grs.. pin brass 1 dwt. 17. Bismuth Solder — Bis- 
muth 3 ozs. lead 3 ozs. 18 dwts., tin 5 ozs. 6 dwts. 



USEFUL ITBMfe FOR DAILY REMEMBRANCE. 

Legal Brevities.— A note dated on Sunday is void. A note 
obtained by fraud, or from one intoxicated, is void. If a note be 
lost or stolen, it does not release the maker, he must pay it. An 
endorser of a note is exempt from liability, if not served with 
notice of its dishonor within 24 hours of its non payment. A note 
by a minor is void. Notes bear interest only when so statv,d. Prin-* 
cipalsare responsible for their agents. Each individual 'n partner-^ 
ship is responsible €or the whole amount of the debts of the firm. 
Ignorance of the law excuses no one. It is a fraud to conceal f| 
fraud. It is illegal to compound a felony. The law compels no 
one to do impossibilities. An a^eement without a consideration 
is void. Signatures in lead pencil are good in law. A receipt for 
money is not legally conclusive. The acts of one partner bind all 
the others. Contracts made on Sunday cannot be enforced. A 
contract with a minor is void. A contract made with a lun;:,tic is 
yoid. Written contracts Qoncerning land must be under seal. 



! H 



^82 USEVVL IT15M8 FOB OAILT lUElUBMBJUNOK. 



A TABLV OV DAILY. SAYINGS AT OOlfpOUNP INTBBS8T. 
Cents per Day Per Tear In Ten Teart 

2f. t lo: ....,.....* 130. 



5i. 

11 . 

27J. 

56 . 
1.10 .. 
1.37 .. 



20. 

40. 

100. 

200, 

400. 

600.. 



.m 



Tear 
,900 



260 ^ 6,800 

620 11,600 

.l,300..s «... 29,000 

2,600. 58,000 

5,200 ,.UX6,000 

6,500 .145,000 



By the aboYe table it appears tbat if a naeohaiiic, or clerk saYes 
2| per day f^om the time he is 21 till he is 70, the total with iaterest 
will amount to l|2,900, and a daily saving of 27i cepts reaches the 
important sum of $29,000. Save all you can in a prudent manner 
for a time of possible want, but act justly by paving your debts, 
and liberally by assisting those m need, and helping in a good 
cause. 

On Pbofanb Swbarino — Let every man do his best to discoun- 
tenance this abominable habit, and shun it as an accursed sin in 
every possible way. iSio respectable person will allow himself to 
be guilty of it Business men who make a practice of it will iiod 
themselves avoided by the best class of customers, for I know that 
some persons can suffer no mental punishment equa) to that in- 
flicted by being compelled to listen to profane language. Besides, 
every man known as a profane swearer, will not be credited by 
those whose good opinion is wcrth having, even when he may be 
speaking the truth. 

Act W sll Your Part, Don't bb SbiiFibh.— Remember that it is 
by imparting happiness to others, and making ourselves useful, 
that we receive happiness. Stand Iw this trwth, live it out, and 
always keep doing somiething osefal for the common good, doing 
it well, and acting sincerely. Endeavour to keep your heart in 
the attitude of cherishing good will to all, thinking and speaking 
evil of no one, and always with a kind word for everybody. Sel- 
fishness is its own curse ; it is-a starving vice. The man who 
does no good gets none. He is like the heath in the desert, neither 
yielding fruit nor seeing when eood cometb, a stunted dwarfish, 
miserable shrub. Let all your iimuence be eierted for the purpose 
of doing all you can for the common good,. and individual welfare 
of every one. 

Mabriaob Maxims. — A good wife is the greatest earthly blessing. 
A wife never makes a greater mistake than when she endeavours 
to coerce her husband with other weapons than those of love and 
aflfection. Those weapons are a sure ijuU if he has any thing 
human left in him. Forbear mutual upbraidings. In writmg letters, 
during temporary separation, let nothing contrary to love and 
sincere affection be expressed, such letters fromf a wife have a most 
powerful emotional effect, sometimes little understood by those 
who write them. It is the mother who moulds the character and 
destiny of the child as to the exteriors, therefore let calmness, 
peace, affection, and firmness rule her conduct towards her child- 
ren. Children are great imitators, whether they have scolding or 
peaceful mothers, they are generally sure to learn from the examples 
get beifore thexn^ and thus the consequent jojr or sofiQW is trans- 



USEFUL ITEMS FOR DAXLT EEMEMBRANCBT" 283 



ferred to otiier fam|lieg^ therefore let mothers take heed to their 
conduct. It is not povsible to exercise judgment and prudence too 
much before entering on the married life. Be sure that the affec- 
tions on both.sides are so perfectly intertwined around each other, 
that the two as it were, form one mind, this requires time ; and a 
thorough mutual knowledge on both sides. ULaxrj in your own re- 
ligion, and into a different blood and temperament from your own. 
fiend jour whole ppwers to aroid depreciatory remarks, jibing and 
anger in every form, and specially avcud everlastingly dishing up 
any unsuccessful past actioA that was done from a good motive and 
with the best intentions at the time. Let nothing foreign to the 
spirit qf love and mutual affection intervene to cause distance 
between husbaud and wife ; to this end let self-denial rule ovec 
each, and reciprocal unselfishness. Avoid hsLbitual favUt-finding, 
scolding, &c., as you woulji perdition itself; manv men tremble as 
they cross their threshold into the presence of scolding wives. Let 
husband and wife eultivate habits of sobriety, and specially avoid 
drunkenness in every form. What a dreadf^il spectacle it is to see a 
husband transformed into a demon, tottering homeward to a broken- 
hearted wifCy whose noble self-sacitf cing deVotion to him seems 
to partake moro of the nature of heaven than of earth. ' ever part 
even ^'or & iourney, without kind anjd endeajdng word^, and as a 
kiss Bymbolizes uni^n from interior affection, dq not spare it on 
such occasions, repeat^g it when you ^turn. In one word, let 
love rule supreme. 

Children ^xd Horn Gonvbbbation. — Children hunger perpetu- 
ally for new ideas. They will learn with pleasure from the Ups of 
parents what they deem drudgery to learn from books, and even if 
they have the misfortune to be deprived of many educational ad- 
vanta^s they, will grow up intelligent if tljey enjoy in childhood 
the privilege of listeniifg to the conversation of intelligent people. 
Let them have many opportunities of learning in this way. Be 
kind to them, and don't think it beneath you to answer th^ir little 
questions, for they proceed from an implanted facuUy which every 
true man and woman should take a great delight in gratifying. 

HoMB AFTBR BUSINESS HoQRS. — Happv is the man who can find 
that solace and that poetry at home. Warm greetings from loving 
hearts, fond glances from bright eyes, and welcome shouts of 
merry nearted children, "the many thousand little arrangements for 
comfort, and enjoyment, thatsilently tell of thoughtful and expec- 
tant love, these are the ministrations that reconcile us to the prose 
of life. Think of this ye wives and daughters of business men! 
Think of the toils, the anxieties, the mortification and wear that 
fathers undergo to secure for you comfortable homes, and 
compensate them for their toils by making them happy by their 
own fire side. 

Wbll Worthy of Imitation. — A worthy Quaker thug wrote : — 
" I expect to pass through this world but once. If therefore, there 
be any kindness I can do to any fellow being, let me do it now. 
let me not defer nor neglect it, for I will not pass this way again.'' 
Were all to act thus how many would be made happy ! 

Another Sensible t^uAKRR. — A Quaker lately propounded the 
piomentous question to a fair (Quakeress, as follows; "Hum I ^e^ 



II 



IV- 



N" 



1 b 



284 USEFUL ITEMS^FOR DAILir.AEHEMBKANOB 

and verily ; Penelope, »ae sp^.* urgetn ano movetn me Tfonaer- 
fullj to beseech thee to cleave unto me, flesh of my flesh, and 
bone of my bone." " Hum I truly, Obadiah, thou hast wisely said. 
Inasmuch as it is not good for man to be alone, lOj I will sojourn 
with thee." 

Tablb Convbrsation. — Instead of swallowing your food in sullen 
silence, or brooding over your business, or severelv talking about 
others, let the jonversation at the table be genial, kind, social and 
cheering. Don't bring any disagreeable subjects to the table in 
your conversation, any more than you would in your dishes. Avoid 
scandalizing people, and never cherish a jubilant feeling over the 
infirmities or misfortunes of others. The more ^ood company you 
have at your table the better. Hence the intelhgence, refinement 
and appropriate behaviour of a feunUy given to hospitality. Never 
feel that intelligent visitors can be anything but a blessing to you 
and yours. 

Kbbp thb Housb Ci<b4n and wbll Vbntilatbd. — A neat, clean, 
fresh aired, sweet, cheerful, well an'anged house, exerts a moral 
influence over its inmates, and makes the members of a fftmily 
peaceable And consiaerate ofmch other's feelings ; On the contrary, 
a filthy, squalid, noxious dwelling, contributes to make its inhab- 
itants selfisbj sensual, and regardless of the feelings of others. 
Never sleep in a small close bedroom, either during summer or 
winter without free ventilation from door or windows, unless otber^ 
wise supplied wjth abundance of fresh air. It will be seen that 
a person's house usually corresponds to his character. 

Safb Businbss Rules.— Businbbs xbn, in business hours, attend 
ONLT to business matters. Social calls are best adapted to the 
SOCIAL oiBOLB. Make your biisiness known in fbw woAds, without 
loss of time. Let your dealings with a stranger be most carbfdllt 
considered, and tribd fribnoship duly appreciated. A mban act 
will soon recoil, and a man of honour will bb bstbbmbd. Leave 
" Tricks of Tradb " to those whose education was never completed. 
Treat all with respect, confidb in fbw, wrong no man. Be never 
afraid to say No, and always prompt to acknowledge and rectify a 
wrong. Leave nothing for to-morrow that should be done toKlay. 
Because a friend is polite, do not think his timb is valueless. Have 
a placb for every thing, and bvbrt thing in its place. To preserve 
lono friendship, keep a short crbdit, the way to obt credit is to 
be punctual ; the way to prbsbrvb it is not to use it much. Sbttlb 
OFTBN ; have short accounts. Trust no man's appbarancbs, they 
are often deceptive, and assumed for the purpose of obtaining cre- 
dit. Rogues generally dress well. The rich are generallv plain 
MBN. Be WBLL 8ATI8FIBD before you give a credit, that those to 
whom tou «iyi IT are bati mut to be trusted. 



LNOB 



I me wonaer- 
tny flesh, and 
st wisely said, 
[ will sojourn 

foodinsnllen 
talking about 
ind, social and 
to the table in 
dishes. Avoid 
eliaff over the 
company you 
ce, refinement 
itality. Never 
•leasing to you 

A neat, clean, 
xerts a moral 
rs of a family 
a the contrary, 
lake its inhab- 
ngs of others. 
Qg summer or 
I, unless otber- 
1 be seen that 
er. 

I hours, attend 
adapted to the 
^oitDB, without 

[OST OARSrULLY 
I. A MSAN AOT 

fiBMiD. Leave 
)ver completed. 
[AN. Be never 
re and rectify a 
be done to^ay. 
tluelCoS. Have 
B. To preserve 

ST CREDIT is to 

;much. Sbttlb 
BARANCBS, they 

obtaining cie- 
;enerally plain 

that those to 



APMNDIX TO « THE AETIZAlf'S GU^E/* 

01^ OORBESPONDBKOEa 

• 

B]rrellBreneeiop«g«a66itwinbeMeilihatsomethiticrWMStatedr^^rd' 
lag ooirespondenoea, tojrether with an allusion to the appendix for fivther 
Inlbrmai^B. The ampukade of the subjeet beL' .^ verj' great, no more can 
be promised liere than a veiv abridged statement by war of illastration. 
Kot being aware that the suoijeot has ever been olladed to in connection 
-with c. work of this kind, perhaps some will be inclined to atiaoh a certain 
amount of blame on account of Introducing it here» as there is apparentty 
but very slight reUtionship between the subjects treated of tnroiurhout 
tlUs work and the topic unoerjponsideration. But inasmuch as it Is beueved 
that its consideration will ftiifll a much needed use and command the ap- 
probation ot all good men, the censure of others is but little regarded m 
comparison Furthermore, tho discrepancy is oHily apiiarent, for many 
thing! mentioaed in this book, together with thousands of other things, will 
be comprehended Just in proporuoo as oorrespondenees are understood; 
consequently any ^ort that tends to dissipate the obscurity, and enli^hteu 
the dai-kness, wfth which, as regards this subject, many minds are becloud- 
ed, must be productive of ji^ood, while the knowledge in question will 
enable us to account fbr many of the phenomena of tne visible creation, 
such as chemical affinities, theeonstltanon and qualities of diflbrent kinds 
of metal, and their action en each other, besides suggesting innumer- 
able instruotiTe thoughts on other Interestingquestionsofa purely natural 
kind : nevertheles: the writer desires to state that his modve for considering 
the subject in this place, is a desire U) give a few examples of the woridng 
of the principle^aa an unerring rule in unlblding the true meaning of tho 
Sacred writings, for, ttrango as the assertion may appear to many, tho 
meaning of the Divine Word as to its true or intehial sense, ^n be evolved 
in no other way. It should be known that tho Word being Dlvlhe, i« com- 
posed in a manner different from all other writings whatsoever, being 
written by jpuro oorrespondencee, for which rea§on, through the use of 
emblems, symbols, types, and representatives, it contain^ and embraces 
within its bosom things which regard «he Lord, his heaven, tho Church, 
man, and the things of love andfUth. even when such subjects do not in the 
least appear in the letter while it is being read, for it is a Oivinotruth, that 
there are indeflnite ijhings in oaoh ozpression of the Word, which appears 
to man •* simple cntC rude ; yea, there is contained therein more than man 
can ever oomprehencU because it is tho embodiment of Inflnite wisdom, 
and is ac to its inmosts, the Lord Himself. John i -1., Rev. xlx, 18 Treat 
with the ut308w reverence therefore, I pray you, whatever has relation to 
the Word of HOD, Cor by so doing you do honour to tiiat Saobbd Namk 
Which should nover "bo Caken in vam. Of all the abounding iniquities of 
Bociety, none are ::^ore uestruotive of the germs of goodness implanted by 
our Heavenly Father In man's heart, and none minlisters less gratification 
to the depraved crr.vin^^ of fallen man, than the prpfimatioii of the Nahb 
and Word of t!K> '^verblessed Gon. Let every one discountenance this 
appalUn- enormity, ancl Tj3ware of it is as he would shun eternal ruin.not 
only on account of its inikmou: character aa a sin against Goz>, but also 
out of Qommon regard for the feelings of our neighbours. 

The science of oorrespondenoes unfolds those spiritual laws in accordance 
with which tho word of God is written. The word correspondence is 
derived A-om the Latin terms con and respondee, and means, radically, to 
aoswer with ur to agree. It will serve our purpose here to define it as the 
appearance of the internal in thooxternal, audits representation thei-e; in 
other words, internal and spiritual thinn are mirrored forth and repre- 
sented in extomai znd natural forms. 'Rta Word throughout, is written 
with a constant reference to an exact and immutable relation between 
sphituj^ and natttral things Various desoriptions are^we^en of fhe 



I 

;1 i* 



f 



I 



■ 






'Af»PENDlX TO THE AETIZANB' 0UID«. 



san. moon, and stan ; of the earth with her mountains, valleyi and riverl \ 
of men, animals and plants, gold and silver, brass and iron, and a thousand 
other tblngf which appear in ttus natural wprld. In all these descriptions 
there la aconaf ant renMened to tBonnteiiM and tfinimlc/ivaH ilrom i^hioh 
these things exist, and to which thev correspond. The Word, in {tt literal 
sense, is thus wrought together with infinite skiU, constituting a permanent 
receptacle of divine andsbiritua-tUBga. Withii atelhe liviiiK principles, 
the tpirit and Hfe of the word, of which it is said, "The wordsl spealc unto 
you, they are spirit and they are. life " John vi. ^. The science of corres- 
pondenoes Mi to thie Word of "God what the ttatbematioa) iolenee is to the 
phenomena Of the material unirefte. It rtoveals order; harmony, beauty 
and Divine perftctton in the midst of what seemed to be msorder, oncer- 
tainty, ineztricaUe oonftsion and eveA contradiction, It is a most 
melancholy sttebtaele at this day to see profeMed expounders of the Word 
tell their hearers that tholSAble is flill of errors, that such an<|Bueh naseages 
bontradict eaoh other, and then proceed forthwith to oommnntcate a vast 
amount of erudite selMerired intelligence in the«hape of glosses, oomments 
knd exj^lanations, with the oxily eilbot of cauelog real oonwsion where there 
caver was any, whilst a knowledge of this heavenly soienoe,forsuoh indeed 
it is, would have enabled them to harmonize all apparent discrepancies at 
once. 

Not so were the men of the most Ancient Church deccrlbed in tftose 
Divinely composed allegories in the b^nningof Genesis, previous to that 
awfbl apestaoy and deoT4nsion ftvm goodness described nnder the repre* 
sensation ol a flood whica swept over the %hole earth, 'i hey were gifted 
with soc'a an intuitve knowled{|e from above, thatthfty could.as it were,read 
God's word in His Worics, and learn andthink of heavenlv things through 
and by means of the oontinnplation of eorrespondinil eaHnly things. For 
Example, when with the natural eye they beneld a mountain, instantly the 
emotions bt their minds would assumea corresponding elevation towa^ls 
the Lord, for by a mountain in the mbst Ancient Chnroh was sigrniied ihe 
1<0RD, and all that ia odle6tial from Him, as the good of love and charity ; 
the most ancient peonlo, and all tne ahdients, even the Gentiles, worshipped 
onmbuntains from this origin. Hence M is written, "I vriil lift up mine 
eyes to the mountMrM (or Ellis), from whence cometh my help, my help 
oometh from the Lord, i^hlch made heaven and earth," Ps. oxxi. We 
may see from this the true reason Vrhy tho blessed Rhdkskbb taught 
the people from mountains, ai^cended up into hi^h mountains, and abode 
in mountains to such an extent as is recorded of Him in the gospels. For 
tho sake of farther illustration it may bo proper in this place to adduce a 
harmony of passages where mountains arc mentioned, together with the 
Internal sense eignlfied by them. All the high mountains obvorod with the 
waters of the flood (Gen. vil. 19.) denotes that all the goods of charity were 
extinguished by falses and persuasions of iM SbAsq, or what is the same, 
t>verflowiag wickedness. Tne ark of Noah resting upon the monntaina of 
Ararat, [Gen, viii, 4, 61, denotes the flrst light after temptation, which is 
from charity. The children of Shem dwelling from Mesna, as thou goest 
hnto Sephar, a mount of the east, (Qen. x. 80), denotes worship from the 
truths of faith extending to the good of charity as ito end. Abraham's 
removal unto a mountain on the east of Bethel (Gen. xii. 8), denotes the 
progression of celestial love with which the Lord was imbued in infancy, 
for by Abraham in the word is represented the Lord ac te the divine celes- 
tial principle,i)r divine good. They that remained flying to thfimountams 
after Abraham's victory in Siddim (Gen. xlv. 10), denotes the love of self 
and the world against Which the Lord foughtfrom bis love for the whole 
human race. Lptsaid to ascend from Soar and dwelling in a cave iu the 
fnountom (G«n, xix, 80] denotes the obscure good of those who are with- 
out the truths of faith. Jacob sacrificing asacrifloe in the mowitain (Qen. 
Kxxi. 64), denotes worsl^ip from the good Of love. The angel of tbe-'LoRD 
appearing to Moses In the mownt of God (Ex. iii. 2-), denote»the divine 
human maniCBSted in the good of love; ye shall serve God upon this moun- 
tain, said to Moses (Ex. ill. 12), denotes the perception and acknowledge- 
ment of the Divine from love. Moses to stand on the top of the mount with 
the rod of God in his hand, during the hattle with Araalek, denotes the 



>«. 



Al»PBNblX TO THIS AlfittlSiANS* OlilDB. 



% 



eyi and riven i 
and a thousand 
aee desoriptiooi 
iB««liromt^hioh 
BD, in ft* literal 
ng a permanent 
TUiKPrinclplei, 
rds I speak unto 
slenoe of oorrea- 
gdenee is to tbe 
trmonj, beauty 
ttsorder, ano«r« 
It is a most 
ers of the Word 
idsuehMweages 
imnntoaie a vast 
bsaes, oomments 
lion where there 
■iforsuoh indeed 
discrepancies at 

::rlbed in those 
previous to that 
mder the repre- 
. hey were gifted 
d.asitwere.read 
r things through 
tily things. For 
kin, instantly the 
evatioBtowaiils 
was sigrnifled the 
[>Te and charity ; 
^les, worshipped 
MM lift up mine 
by help, my help 
p Ps. oxxi. We 
ipBBMSB taught 
■jiAiM, and abode 
kc gospels. For 
aoe to adduce a 
gether with the 
ibvorod with the 
I of charity were 
hat is the same, 
he monntaina of 
station, which is 
la, as thou goeet 
orship from the 
nd. Abraham's 
. 8), denotes the 
bued in infancy, 
the divine celes- 
;o the mountains 
the love of self 
ve for the whole 
in a cave iu the 
e who are with- 
nMmtain (Qen. 
gel of the' Lord 
notes the divine 
upon this moun- 
idaoknowledge- 
_P the moun* with 
lek, denotes the 



from ftood; Israel prevailing when Moses raised bis hand and Amalek 
prevailing when he let down his hand, denotes that the victory is with 
those who are in the truth and good of tisith when they look .upwards to 
the I^BD; bvt that the fiilseovetooatflstbem wheji, they look .down to self 
and the world, for Amalek represents interior evil. Jvael to be planted 
in the mountain of the LoBO't inheritance, (fix. xv. 17,) aenotea regenera- 
tion, and heaven, f^om the lifb of trath and goodness. The Israelites 
encamped at the vwunt otOtoj> t Ex. xvili. (], denotesthe new arrangament 
of truths when about to be conjoined withaood in the- second stage of 
regeneration. The Lobd came- from Sinai, He shone from mount vwa. 
(Deut. zxxill. 2), denotes the proceedure of Divine truth or the law, friom 
Divine xood. The mowntaini fllled with horses and chariots of flre round 
about £li8ha(2 Kings vi. 17), denotes doctfinala good .nd true from the 
Lord. The mown,tain$ shall bring peace and the little bills by righteousness 
(Pa. Ixxli. 8), denotes love to the Lord and the neighbour, such as it was 
in the most ancient church. Upon every lofty mountain, and upon every 
high bill, rivera and streams ot water, <lsa. xxx> 25), denotes.the goods of 
love and charity, and the truths of faith flrom them, for, rivers and streams 
of water signify truths ; like one go'uL' to the mountain of the Iobd, to the 
Mighty One of Israel ( Isa. xxx. 29), denotes the Lo&i> as to the good of 
love and the good of chjurity. Get thee up into the high mountain, lift up 
thy voice with strength (Isa. xl. 9; xlii. 11). denotes the worship of the 
Lord from love. He that puiteth his trust in me shall possess the land, 
and shall inherit my holy mountain, (Isa. Ivii. 18), denotes the Lord's King- 
dom where all is love and charity. The glory of the Lord upon the moun' 
tain east of the city (Eaink. xi. 28), denotes the sphereof celestial love from 
the Loiu>. The .nouseand the top of the mo"ntotn made holy (Ezek. xliii. 
12), denotes the Lord's celestial kingdom from the good of love. Judah 
called Kmountain in a ^Id, ( Jer. xvli. 8), denotes the principle of celestial 
love in the Lord's Kingdom represented by thern^. The movrntctin of tjie 
congregation in the sides of the norih (Isa. xiv. 18), denotes the (Obscure 
state where the influx of good, which fluws in with light from the Lokd, 
is terminated. Four chariots going out tmvn between two mmmto^M of 
brass (Zee. vi. 1-8), denotes the precedare of dootrinals from the goad of 
love io the Lord and love to the nei|fhbor in the natural degree . The 
mounfams shall distil sweet wine and the hills shall melti when captive 
Israel is restored ( Amos ix. 18), denotes the good of love and charit/ when 
:he spiritual church is delivered from falscs. Tne Loqd of hosts came 
down to tight for mownt Zion and for i^e hill thereof ( Isa. xxxi. 4) denotes 
'he omdlootence of divine good and divine trath. Contend with the 
'.nountain >■ and let the hills hear thy voice(Mio vi. 1), denotes truthspeak 
ing with tuose who are elate of heart in self-love, and with those who arc 
in charity . And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mofuntain 
of the Lord's house shall be established in the top Af the mmmtains and 
Mhall be exalted above the hills and all the nations shall flow unto it« and 
many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the vtotmtams of 
the Lord and to the house of the God of Jacob, and He will teach us His 
ways, and we will walk in His paths, ( Isa. ii. 2-8). These words are spoken 
of the New Church to be estabUahed by the Lord ; by the mountain of the 
Lord, which shall theb be established in the top of the mountains, is under- 
itood Zlon ; and bjr Zion, is signified the celestial church, and love to the 
i^RD which is communicated to those who belong to that church, that this 
is the primary principle of the church, and that it shall increase and gain 
htreftgth, Is signified by its being in the top of the mountains, and exalted 
above the hills ; that they Who are principled in the good of love shall 
'Cknowledge the Lord, and accede to the church, is signified by all nations 
flowing to that mountain, nations signifying those who are in celestial 
good, whi«h is the good of love to the Lord, and people, those who are in 
spiritual good, which is the good of charity towards the neighbor. They 
of the south shall possess the mount of Esau, (Obad. 19), denotes the good 
of love with those who are in the light of truth. His feet shall stand in 
that day upon the mmmt of Olives, and the movmtain shall divide, etc. 
(Zee. xiv. 4), denotes the advent of the LoiaD in the good of love and 
charity, and tne church formed by such goods receding from the Jews to 
the nations. The Load set upon a high mowitain and upon a piunado of 



'h-: 



\^^ 



1;. 



4 APPSNDI3t OlO (t)HI AttTIZANS' OtTlSE^ 

tb«^ temple, br the deril, denotes the extreme temptation combats that hd 
sustained against the loves of sell and the world, thus against hell. Let 
them which be in Judea flee into the mountaina (Matt. xxiv. 16), denotes 
Miration in love to the Lobd and charitv to the neighbor. Thej shall say 
toth9nwuntain$, Fall on us, and to the hills, C0Terus(Bey. vi. 16), denotes 
the state of the erll unable to bear the Lord'b presence. A great mountain 
pomhM with Are east into the midst of the sea (Ber. viii. 8), denotes the 
lore OTself in the soientiflos of the natural man. From the examples it 
may be seen that there is an opposite side fl*om love and goodness, when 
evil ie treated of, for who does not know that there are mountains of pride 
*°,dsdf>lore of a very different kind from the lore of the Lobd and the 
neighbor r Other instances could be noted, but enough has been brought 
forward satisiy the present purpose. 

Mention has been made ofthose ancestors of the human race who existed 
in the times of primitiye integrity, happiness, purity and goodness. Not 
without the best of reasons did the ancients speak of that period as the 
ooLDiir age. In modem times, for a similar reason, we speak of the 
golden rule, a heart of gold, golden fruit, golden opinions, golden opportu- 
nity, etc., and no one is ever at a loss to perceive the correspondence exist- 
ing between the symbol and the preciouSness of the thing or quality repre- 
sented by it. The nature and qualities of ffold are well known. Its red, bright 
color, corresponding to that of burning flre, is symbolic of love or goodness, 
as is also the inherent warmth of the metal. No uncombined asia can cor- 
rode or dissolve it, acids corresponds to truth fhlsifled, which in other words 
is evil or wickedness, so " charity suffers long and is kind." The most 
Intense heat has no fhrther effect on gold than to still ftirther purify it, 
while its intrinsic value renders it a most proper emblem of that desirable 
quality which it is used to represent or symbolize in the Word of God, 
viz., that of the good of love from the Lord. Silver in the internal sense 
of the word signifies truth, and in an opposite sense, the fidse. From this 
correspondence we can understand how the solution of silver used in 
photography is so sensitive to the rays of light, f jr natural light oorres- 

Ends to spiritual light, which is the veriest divine truth, or that True 
ght which lightem every man that cometh into the world. The 
coMT of silver is also in correspondence with tho I'esplendenoyof light. 
Segarding gold and silver it may be well to state that in the Word they 
stand in a sort of mutual relation to each other, representing respectively 
love and wisdom, charity and fkith, goodness and truth, will and under- 
standing: the affections, or the feminine principle, and the inteUectnal, or 
the masculine principle. From this correspondence arises the mutual affinity 
these metals nave for each other in the numerous intermixtures and 
appliances in the various arts and manufactures of the world. Inferior 
metals, such as brass, iron, etc., are used in the Word to denote a lower 
degree of goodness and truth. We will now approach the sacred writings to 
see to what extent these remarks will be coimrmed. The river of Eden 
encompassing the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold and precious 
stones (Gen. u, 11, 12) denotes the state of the celestial man as to love and 
faith. Abram's being very rich in aiher and gold (Gen. xiu. 2) denotes 
the state of the Lord in youth as to celestial good and truth. The Israel- 
ites borrowing Jewels of*^ aUver and Jewels of gold and raiment of the 
l'-'j?/ptians (Exodus xii. 85^ denotes scientific truths and goods taken away 
from the evil, and acquired by those who are of the spiritual church. The 
people offlsring gold and silver, and brass, and blue and purple, etc., for 
the works of the tabernacle, denotes interior things collated and disposed 
in externals, where they are represented. The gold of the ark, and the 
border of gold round about it, denotes good in the inmost, and the common 
sphere of good which proceeds from the Lord, and contains all. The mercy 
seat and the cherubim of gold denotes the hearing and reception of worship, 
and approach to the Lord from the good of love. The taole of shew bread 
covered with gold, and the border of gold round about it, denotes the recep- 
tion of all that conduces to the spiritual life in good, and the sphere of good 
affording protection from evil. The candlestick, its branches, etc.. all oi 
gold denotes all mental illumination, and intelligence, or the truth of faith 
proeeeding from good. The couplings for the curtains of gold, denotes the 
whole connection and coiUunotion of tru^, thus the whole order and 



ombftts that hd 
Inst hell. Let 
Iv. 16), denotes 
They shall say 
vi. 16), denotes 

S -eat mountom 
), denotes the 
he examples it 
rocdnees, when 
intains of pride 
) LoBD and the 
\» heen brought 

aoe who existed 
goodness. Kot 
At period as the 
W9 speak of the 
jroldenopportu- 
ipondenoeexist- 
ar quaUtv repre- 
B. Its red, bright 
ore or goodness, 
ed asla ««» oor- 
bin other words 
id." The most 
!hrther pariiyit, 
of that desirable 
) Word of God, 
ae internal senM 
Use. From this 
>f silver used in 
iral light oorres* 
ith, or that True 
le world, liw 
idenoyof light, 
the Word they 
Ing respectively 
will and under- 
a intellectual, or 
le mutual affinity 
ermixtures and 
'orld. Inferior 
J denote a lower 
lored writings to 
le river of Eden 
old and precious 
n as to love and 
xiu. 2) denotes 
,th. The Israel- 
raiment of the 
>od8 taken away 
lal church. The 
purple, etc., for 
^d and disposed 
axe ark, and the 
knd the common 
tall. The mercy 
Won of worship, 
[le of shew bread 
jnotes the recep- 
,e sphere of good 
ichee, etc.. all pj 
the truth of faith 
'Old, denotes the 
hole order aoA 



Appendix to the artizans guide. 



& 



1 



harmony of heaven, preserved br the good of love. The boards of cedar 
covered with gold denotes the wnole merit and good of works, thus all the 

ood that sustains heaven, from the irood of love, thus flrom the Lobd. 

he blue, the purple, and scarlet and One liaen of the ephod, embroidered 
all over with golden thread, denotes the universal prevalence of love, and 
every manifestation of charity and fUth imbued therewith. The sockets 
of tub onyx stones made of aold, and the chains of gold, denoted the sub- 
sistence and coherence of all things in the memory grounded in good. 
All the stones of the breastplate set in gold, its rings and chains of gold, 
denote all the goods and truths of the internal man proceeding ft>om the 
divine good, surrounded by the sphere of good, and their indissoluble 
coujunotion thereby. The bells of gold upon the border of the robe of 
Aaron denote all tnat is heard and perceived of the church, thus all doc- 
trine and worship to be from good. The plate of gold eugraved with 
" Holiness to the Lord" upon Aaron's forehead, denotes illustration and 
wisdom proceeding Arom the divine good of the Lord. The altar of 
incense covered with gold denotes the elevation or hearing and reception, 
of all worship risine fi-om love and charity. Bezaleel, of the tribe of Jndab, 
called and inspireato do these works for the tabernacle, to work in gold 
tito., denotes those who are in the good of love receiving the divine 
lufluj^, and their exceeding wisdom. In the opposite sense, the ear-ringi 
otgold given to Aaron to make the golden calf, denote the delight of ex- 
ternail loves, which are the loves of self and the world, rendiering worship 
idolatrous, thus the good of the external man instead of the good of love, 
or divine eood, is represented. 6oM.8ignifleB spiritual good, much fine 
gold celestial eood. (Psa. xix. 10.) 1 counsel thee to buy of me gold 
tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, (Rev. iii. 18), denotes the 
good of celestial love derived' from the Lord. Chid and precious stones 
(Rev. XVII. 4), denotes divine spiritual good, and divine sbiritual truth, 
both derived from the Word. How is the gold become dun, how is the 
most fine aold changed. (Lam. iv. 1), denotes the spiritual and celestial 
goods of tne church lightly esteemed through declension into evil. The 
precious Sons of Zion comparable to fine gold, (Lam. iv. 2), denotes those 
who are in wisdom from divine truths. Oold, braaa, and wood. (Isa. 
Ix. 17.), represent the three, celestial principles, the inmost principle is 
represented by gold, the inferior by brass, and the lower by wood. Tho 
use of the gold and silver vessels belonging to the temple of Jierusalem at 
Belshazzar^s feast, while they praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of 
brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone, (Dan. y. 2,3,4), denotiasthe profiEUia- 
tion of the knowledges of good and truth by those who are in fuses, his 
kingdom being divided, signifies the dissipation of goods and truths, 
ana he himself being slain that night, signify the privation of the life of 
good and truth, consequently, damnation. And the street of the city was 

Sure gold, as it were transparent glass. (Rev. xxi. 21.) By the city, or 
ew Jerusalem, is meant the Lord^s New Church as to every thing per- 
taining to it interiorly considered, or within the wall; by gold is signfflod 
the good of love from the Lord, and like unto pure glass, signifies pellu- 
cid or transparent ft-om difine wisdom, and since the latter appears in hea- 
ven as light, and flows from the Lord as a sun, just as natural light flows 
from the natural sun ; by like unto pure glass is signified flowing in toge- 
ther with light from heaven from the Lord. Kegardlng the Lord's 
coming it is written, But who may abide the day of His coming? and who 
shall stand when he appearisth? for He Is like a refiner's fire; and he shall 
sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purifiy the sons of Levi, 
and purge them as gold aadsilver, that they may ofibr unto the Lord an 
ofTeringln righteousness. Then shall the ofl*erine of Judah and Jerusalem 
be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years 
(Mai. III. 8, 4).<By Levi in a supreme sense is signified love and mercy, in 
a spiritual sense, charity in act ; consequently the sons of Levi signify those 
who are in the afi'ection of truth a d live in the good of life. Tlie name 
denotes to adhere, by which in the Word, is signified conjunction through 
love, by the refiner's fire is denoted temptation, whereby is effected puri- 
fication, which is here meant by purifying and purging them as gold and 
silver. By Judah is signified the Lord's celestial church. Or those who 
love the Lord above all things; and by Jerusalem those who are in neigk- 



II u 



i I 



hi' 



6 '^ APPENDIX TO THE ARTISANS* QVltt. 



bourlylove, tho oflferlnsf they will bring unto the Lord 1m fnlth and charity, 
by the days of old aiuiformor yoarH aro inoant the ancient churcMt>H, uiid 
the states of the worHliin of tho Loud at that time. It is obvious that tlie 
Rons of Levi mentioned In thin passage cannot mean tliosu who were otllci* 
ating as priests during tho time of our Ubdbumku'b incarnation, for they 
were of that outrageously wicked crew wlio wilfully crucitied tho Lord 
of Qlorv. In the internal sense of the Word tho twelve tribns of th<j child- 
ren of Israel signify the church as to all its goods and truths; the same is 
signified by the twelve disciples of tho Lord, and by tho twelve eates and 
twelve foundations uf the New Jerusalem, as it is stated regaroing thcao 
last.tL .'c names were written thereon, which were respectivGly, tho names 
of tne twelve tribes of Israel and those of tho twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
Jerusalem adorned with go/d And silver, (Ezek. xvi. 18), the temple with 
its gofd and silver claimed as the Lord'8, (Hag. it. 8) denotes the church 
gifted with wisdom and intelligence, or celestial and spiritual knowledge. 
<}old and silver made into images of men, and whoredom committed with 
them, (Elzek. xvi. 17), denotes profanation predicated of celestial and 
spiritual knowledges. Tho ships of Tarshish to bring silver and gold, 
(isa. Lx. 9), denotes knowledges when the Lord's kingdom is established, 
by which truths and goods aro acquired. He who is without silver invited 
to buy and eat, denotes such as are in ignorance of truth, but in the good 
of charity. Silver and gold gotten by Tvre (Ezek. xxviii. 4, Joel iii. 6) 
denote intelligeuoe, or what is the same, truths and wisdom. Silver puri- 
iied seven tiibes (Ps. xii. 6), denotes divine truth. It is hoped that tnese 
examples will suffice to elucidate the statements made regarding the 8ym> 
bollc or representative sense of gold, silver, etc., in tho Word. 

As regards the correspondence of the sun, moon, anc^ stars, it will be 
seen f^om what follows mat thei">i natural luminaries aro also used by the 
Divine AuTHOB of the Word to represent spiritual and heavenly things, 
and in an opposite sense, things that are evil. The Sva, in the Word 
when the Lord is spoken of, signifles his divino love, and at the same 
time His divine wisdom. Forasmuch as the Lobd with respect to His divine 
wisdom, is meant by the sun, therefore the ancients in their holy worship 
turned their foces to the rising sun, and also their temples, which practice 
jci still continu..d. The Moon, in the Word signifies the Lord in reference 
to faith, and thence faith in tho Lord. Stars, in a supreme sense, signifies 
knowledge concerning the Lord, hence stars siguity intelligence of a 
spiritual Kind, or the knowledge of good and truth, which is true wisdom, 
xliese statements will now be confirmed from the Word. " And He shall bo 
as the light of the morning when the sun risoth, even a morning without 
clouds, as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after 



rain" (ii. Sam. xxxifl., 4,). The 



ging c 
slight 



of the morning wlien the sun riseth. 



signifies the divine truth proceeding firom the Ix>bd as a sun, a morning 
without clouds denotes the purity of that truth, rain signiti .>s its influx, 
and the tender grass springing out ot the earth signiUps intelligence, and 
reformation thence originating, for these are signifiecl by grass, because 
grass springs out of the earth by virtue of the sim of the world after rain, 
and intelligence is from the Lord as a sun by the in^ux of divine truth. 
M iRNiNO IS used in the Word to denote every particular coming of tho 
Lord, or when there is faith and love in tho church, the evening or night 
Ueuotes a time or state in which these are wanting. " Blessed ofrbe Loud 
i^T his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for thg 
deep that coucheth beneath, and lor the precious fruits brought forth by 
by the aun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon" ( Deut. xxxiii. 
13, 14.]. This particular blessing was pronounced on Josepli, for the 
reason that by Joseph are understood the spiritual celestial, who are the 
hi.c;hest or supreme (n the spiritual kingdom. By his land is signified that 
Kingdom, likewise the church thence derived. By the precious things of 
heaven, the dew, and the deep that coucheth beneath, are signified things 
tiiat are spiritual celestial in the internal and external man. By tho precious 
things brought forth by the sun and the precious things put forth by tho 
moon, are signified all things which proceed from the Lord's celestial 
kingdom, and all which proceed from His spiritual kingdom, conse- 
•luently all the goods and truths which are thence derived! " Praise 
ye the Lord, praise ye Him all His hosts. Praise ye him aun and 



APPENDIX to THE AIlTlZANS* GtTIDE. 



[id chnrttjr, 
ircuuH, and 
us tbat the 
were oBlci- 
in, for they 
I tho LoRi> 
fth'johlld- 
the same U 
jjratoa and 
roiiig thoao 
, tho namoa 
r the Lamb, 
emple with 
the church 
knowledge, 
mltted with 
3le8tial and 
r and gold, 
established, 
liver invited 
in the good 
, Joel III. 5) 
Silver puri- 
d that these 
ing the sym- 

», it will be 
I used by the 
renly things. 
In the Word 
at the same 
to His divine 
loly worship 
lien practice 
in reference 
nse, signifies 
ligence of a 
[rue wisdom. 
1 He shall bo 
ling without 
jhining after 
e sun riseth, 
, a morning 
.•sits influx, 
lligence, and 
IS, because 
Id after rain, 
livine truth, 
miug of tlio 
ling or night 
oftho Loud 
and for tho 
gilt forth by 
'>eut. xxxiii. 
jph, for tho 
who are the 
ignified that 
)U8 things of 
iiifled thinga 
[tlio precious 
rorth by tho 
>'8 celestial 
[dom, conse- 
Id. " I'raise 
m sun and 



moon, praise Hfm, all yo stars of light" fPsa. oxlvlil. 2, 8]. Hern by 
praising the Lord issignified towprship Hira. By the angels are Hignlfled 
those who are in divine truths flrom the good of love, fur ail such aro 
angels. By all His hosts are signified goods and truths in their whole 
compass. By the sun and moon are siguitied tho good of lovn, and the 
trutli fVom that good. By the stars of ligti t are signified the knowledge of 
truth fk-om goodT Inasmuch as man u orsttipsthe J>ord fVom rho^e tilings 
which he receives flrom the Lord, thus from tho : oods and truths tbat 
are in him, and as it is alto by virtue of such thing- that man ih man, it is 
therefore said to such things namely, to the sun, moon, and starj, by 
which are signified goods, truths, and knowledges of truths, tiiat they 
should worship the Lord. It is clear that the command is not addressed 
to those luminaries which enlighten the natural world, for how can such 
things offer jpraise and worship f And God made two groat lights, the 
greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He 
made the itars also [Gen. 1. 16]. The subject treated of in this chapter is 
tlio new creation (ir regeneration of man, that is of those wlio constituted 
the Most Ancient church which is here described in the literal sense cf the 
Word by the creation of the heavens and the earth, those who imagine tbat 
this description applies to the creation of the natural universe are much 
deceived, for how could day and night, or light have an existence previous 
to the creation of the sun, which according to this account did not come 
into being until the fourth day f Or how could the earth brins forth grass 
or the herb yield seed, or the fruit treo yield fVuit aft^-r his kind, before 
the sun of nature came into hoingt These and mai<y other objections 
have been brought forward by inflc^ls and scofibrs, against the authenticity 
of the Word, and by many others who would consider themselves sorely 
aggrieved by having these terms applied to them, many who are indeed 
earnest seekers after truth. Let all such know tliat tho Word of God as 
revealed to us, and the works of God as made known to us throu^li those 
faculties with which He has endowed us, aie never in conflict and never 
contradict each other, but are always in heavenly correspondence and 
Celestial harmony one with the other. God's love in the will, and His 
truth in the understanding, are here called two great lights, and after- 
wards love is called a greater light, and faith a less, and it is said of love 
that it shall rule by day, and of faith that it shall rule by night. The Most 
Ancient church acknowledged no faith but love Itself; ana the universal 
heaven is of love, no other life being existent in heaven but the life of love. 
From love is derived all heavenly nappiness, which is so great that no 
degree of it admits of description, or can ovor be conceived by anj' human 
idea. Those who are under the influence of love, love the Lord ti-om the 
heart.but yet know, declare,and perceive, that all love, and consequently all 
life which is of love alone, and thereby all happiness, come only from the 
Lord and that they have not the least of love, of life, or of hai)pines8, fVom 
themselves. The profundity oftho Word is such that as to its inmost sense 
it does not treat in the least of natural things, but only makes use of them 
to represent and symbolize things that are spiritual, as may be seen from 
the following in reference to a consummated church, as the end of the age, 
or " the end of the world" as it is erroneously translated in the authorized 
version. It is written, " Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall 
the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars 
shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens snail be shaken; 
and there shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven; and then 
shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man 
coming in the clouds of heaven With pov/er and great glory. And he shall 
send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they Khali gather 
to {(Other his elect from the four winds, i^om one end of heaven to the other", 
(Matt, xxiv, 29-31). By all th^se expressions are meant spiritual things re- 
lating to the Church.of whose final stateor period they are spoken, for m the 
spiritual sense, by the sun which shall be darkened, is meant love to the 
Lord ; by the moon which shall not give her light, is meant faith towards 
Him, by the stars which shall fall from the heavens is meant the knowledge 
of goodness and truth. Every intelligent person will know that it is no 
more possible for the stars in the firmament to fall to the earth, than it 
would be for a milliou of worlds to fall ou a pebble by the sea shore. By 



il 






\'i\ 



ft 



APPENDIX TO TttE ARTIZAN8* Gtfbil. 



the *ign of the Son of Haq in taeRven, i« meant the ApppAraocp of DIvlnA 
truth in the Wurd from Uim; by the tribes ot the earth which shall 
mourn, It meant the failure of all truth which is of flilth, and ot all good 
which is Of love: by the oomingof the dou of Man in the cioudaof bnaven 
with power and great glorv, is meant the presence ot the Lokd in the 
Word, and revelation ; by the clouds of heaven Is eignitted the literal sense 
of the Word, by power and great glory is meant its internal sense, which 
has reference solely to the Lokd and His kingdom, in each and every 
passage, and fk-om this, that sense derives Its ^wer and glory ; bv the 
Hngels with a great sound of a trumpet is meant heaven, whence divine 
truth comes, by gathering together the elect fV-om the four winds, from one 
end of heaven to theother. Is meanta new heaven and a new Church, to be 
formed of those who have fkith in the Lord and live according to His 
itrecepts. "Behold the day of the Lord cometh, for the itars of 
heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light, the sun 
shall be darkened In his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her 
light to shine, (Isa. xiii., 9-10). 1 will cover the heaven and make the 
start thereof dark, 1 will cover the 8un with a cloud, and the moon shall 
not give her light, (Ezek. xxxil. 7-8. ) Vho day of the Loao is near, the 
sun and moon euall be darkened, and tho stars shall withdraw their shin- 
ing, ^Joel. iii, 14-16.) The same idea is vlslblo in all these passages. By 
the day of tlieLoBD, is meant His advent, which was at a time when there 
VA» no longer any good of love or truth of fkith remaining In the Church, 
or any knowleflgeof the Lord, therefore it iacalled c dav of darkness and 
thick darkness. From want of knowledge respecting tne spiritual sense 
of the Word, as unfolded by '.bn iiolence of correspondences, many Cbrls' 
tians at the present day support; that the Lord will appear in the clouds 
of the atmosphere, and, acocmpanied by the whole of the heavenly host, 
will be visible to the natural eye. when the dead bodies and mouldering dust 
i)f all who have ever lived on tnt earth will be raised (at the sound ot the 
archangel's trumpet), out ofthelr graves, and wherever else their dust may 
be scattered, no matter what form they may have assumed. It is thought 
this inconceivable mass of corruption will be raised up, and the soulof 
each be re-implanted, the Judgment set, and the books opened, each one 
being Judged out of what is written in those books. Just as if the Omnis- 
cient Oita could possibly require a set of books: that then the earth and 
all that is therein will be burnt up, the stars fhll from heaven and the sun 
and moon be blotted out from the creation. Many good people enter- 
tain these thoughts because things are thus described in the letter of the 
Word, but the case is far otherwise, for it is most true th?il by clouds in the 
Scripture is meant theWord in the letter, for it is written that "His strength 
ia in the ctoud«," that "His truth reacheth unto the clouds," that "He 
maketh the clouds His chariot," that " His fkithfulness reacheth unto the 
clouds,' that the " clouds are the duetof His feet; that thick clouds are a 
coverinff to Him. In his unclouded purity. He is described as a " morn- 
ing without clouds.'- These and many other similar expressions can never 
be predicated of the clouds of nature, but that they are true of the Word 
is most clearly manifest ; hence, when the Lord is spoken of as coming in 
the clouds of neaven, a literal or personal coming is not to be understood 
or expected, but instead thereof, on unfolding or opening of that spiritual 
or internal sense of the Word which has hitherto lain so deeply concealed 
within the clouds of the letter, and which as to its inmost is the Lord 
Himself, and though the announcement may eeem premature, this coming 
has actually taken place during these latter days by a- 1 through the dis- 
closure of that sense to mankind. But more regarding this in what 
follows. When rightly understood, the Word teaches that the only 
resurrection that wfl 1 sver be accorded to man's body consists in the raising 
up of the soul or spiritual body, which takes place immediately after 
natural death, and after death, the judgment. This does not take p>ace in 
this world, but in the spiritual world into which every one enters after the 
death of the body.the books which will then be opened.and from which he 
will be judged, signify the interiors of the mind of man, because in them 
are written all things appertainig to his life. 

Another resurrection is Indeed spoken of in John v.26., as follows;— 
'' The hour is coming, <md now is, when the dead shall hear the voict of 



▲PPINDIX TO THE AATIZANS' QUIDE. 







' T)Mn« 

oU eball 

all good 

f b««veii 

t> in the 

rftl dense 

*, wbloh 

id every 

; by the 

ce divine 

from one 

•ch, to be 

ig to His 

Blars of 

t, the 8un 

lause her 

make the 

noon ahall 

uear, the 

their ihin- 

ages. By 

rhen there 

e Church, 

rkneN and 

itual Bense 

any Chrls' 

the oloudB 

renly host, 

lering dust 

>und ot the 

r dust may 

is thought 

the aouiof 

, each one 

the Omnls- 
earth and 

wd the sun 

!ople enter- 

itter of the 

(mds in the 
lIs strength 

.' that "ue 
th unto the 

Uouds are a 

[b a " morn- 

W can never 
[f the Word 
k coming in 
kinderstood 
lat spiritual 
- concealed 
. the Lord 
this coming 
igh the dis- 
lis In what 
it the only 
i the raising 
[iately after 
Ike place in 
[ers after the 
]m which he 
httse In them 

^follows;— 
Ehe Tolct of 



tbeSon ofnoD.and thev that hear ahall live ;'plalnly indloatlng a reaarrao* 
tion f^oro the graves ur carnality and the luvu ui oolf and the world, whieh 
Is spiritual death, to the life of Hpiritual mindndneiis, and tho love of the 
Lord and tho neighbor, which alone Id true life. This resurrection must 
take place durin^r manM lift) in the body, Itoaanot take place after death, 
for such an tho ruling love is in this life it will irrevocably remain to all 
eternity. It is also a great fallacy to Infer f^om any description in the 
Wort, that this earth will ever be destroyed, no such doctrine being ever 
taught or inculcated therein. In the modern discoveries of geologv. the 
testimony of God through ilis works, points unerringly to Ihe sublime 
truth that Inflni^/Q power has been constantly engaged during countless 
millionH of ages .n preparing the earth for the abode of man. It has been 
created that the human race might exiat, and thence heaven, for the hu- 
man race is the seminary of heaven, and when infinite hove is satisfied to 
its fhllest capacity with intelligent and rational beingn on whom it may 
shower its blessings and celestial beatitudes, for it creates them for no 
other end, then. Just so soon, but no sooner, will the procreations of the 
human race ceaxe, and the world become a blank in the creation. The 
most ample tefltlmouy is not wanting to prove that it was He who laid 
thefouna!*tion-> of thoBARTH, that it should not be removed for xvbr," 
Ps. oiv., ft " He built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the karth 
which he hath established for bvbr," Ts. lxxvui 69." The world also 
is established that it cannot bb movbd." Ps. zoiii. 1. " Say among the 
heathen that tho Lord reigneth ; the world also shall be established that 
It shall N' )T bb movbd, Ps. xcvi. 10 " One generation pas.-teth away, 
and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth vor bvbr. 
Eccles 1, 4. Of tho sun. moon, and stars, we read :— " They shall fbar thee 
as long as the sax and moon bndurb, throughout all obnbrationb." 
Ps. Lxxii., 6. " His uante shall endure for bvbr ; his name shall be 
oontinued as long as the sun,"— ver. 17. " Praise ye him, sun and moon : 

{>raise ye him all ye stars of light. Let them praise tho name oi the lord; 
br he commanded, and they were created. He hath established them 
FOR BVBR AND BVBR : he hath madn a decree which shall not pass. 
" Ps. oxlviii.,8, 5, 6. Those enuciations are certainly all that will be 
required to manifest the divine intention that the universe shall not 
cease to exist. A perishing earth is used in the language of correspon- 
dences to describe a uerlshlng church in the following and many other 
passages " The eartn is utterly broken down, the earth is clean diaaolved, 
the earth is moved exceedingly." Isa. xxiv, 19, " The curse devoured the 
ectrth and they that dwell therein are desolate ; therefore the inhatfitants 
of the earth are burned, and few men left," Isa. xxiv 6. " For my people 
is foolish and they have not known mo ; they are .sottish children, and they 
hare no understanding ; they are wisoto do evil, but to do good they have 
no knowledge, I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was without form and void, 
land the heavens, and they had no light." Jer. iv. 22. 23. Here we' have 
the picture of an apostate church in a otate of declension firom sroodness, 
described by the earth being clean dis>'olved, as moved exceedingly, as 
being without form and void, and the inhabitants thereof as being 
burnt up. Jt is most evident that neither of these statements can be lite- 
rally true of the natural earth. It is written in Joel '• In those days will 
I pour out my spirit and I will show wonders in the heavens and in the 
earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. The sun shall be turued into 
darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terril)Ie day of 
the Lord come," ii. 80., 81. The apostle Peter on the day of Pentecost, 
Acts XI, 16, 21, cites the entire passage from Joel, and refers to it as being 
ftilfllled on that day. but we know as well as we can know any thing, that 
these great commotions did not actually take place in the kingdom of 
nature, at that time. Our ever blessed Lord and glorified Rbdbbmbr was 
seen by the beloved disciple in Apocalyptic vision, as '• One like unto the 
Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot and girt about the 
paps with a goldon girdle. His head and his hairs were white like wool, 
as white as snow, and his eyes wore as aflame of fire, and his feet were 
like unto fine brass as if thev burned in a furnace, and his voice as tho 
sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and 
OHt of his mouth went a sharp two-ed^ed Bword, aa4 l)i8 co^ntentuace >rM 



If' 



I! 



:i ■ 

.1 



10 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS GUIDE. 



i'l 



as tbe sun shining in his strength." Ber. i,'13, 16. One like unto the Son of 
Man, signifies the Lord as to the Word, clothed with a garment down to 
the foot signifies tbe proceeding divine, which is divine truth, lor gar^ 
meats in toe Word denote truths, and girt about the paps with a golden 
girdle signifies the proceeding and at the same time tbe conjoining divine 
which is divine good ; by the paps or breast, divine love is signified, as is 
evident from those passages in the Word whore they are mentioned, as also 
from their correspondence with love ; and his eyes were as a flame «f fire, 
signifies the divine wisdom of the divine love, and his feet like unto fine 
brass as if they burned in a ftirnace, signifies divine good natural ; fire, or 
what burns, si j^^niflos good ; and fine bra;<8 si^^nifies the good of truth natural, 
therefore by the feet of the Son of the Man like unto fine brass, as if they 
burned in afhrnace, is signified divine good nntural, and His voice as the 
sound of many waters, signify divine truth natural ; for waters in tbe Word 
donOie truth: and in his right hand seven stars, signifies all knowledges of 
good and truth iit the church from Him, which are tiienco with the angels 
of heaven and men of the church ; and out of his mouth went a sharp two- 
odgfd sword, signifies the dispersion of falsesby the Word aiul by doc- 
trine thence from the Lord ; and his countenance was as the suu shining 
in his strength, signifies His divine love from which are all things of 
heaven, for this is the signification of faces when predicated of the Lord 
as denoting Hie divine love, from which is all good, thus also all things of 
heaven. Regarding the blessings promised to him that overcometh, it is 
written, " And 1 will give him the morning star," R-v. 11.28. signifying 
that intelligence and wisdom from the divine human principle of the IJOBD 
will be imparted to all those who love and obey Him. Literally under- 
btood such a gift would be incomprehensible, for how could the morning 
star of nature be given to any one ? " And there appeared a great wonder 
in heaven ; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, 
and upon her head a crown of twelve »<rtrs; and she, being with child, 
cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered. And there appeared 
another wonder in heaven ; and behold a great red dragon, having seven 
iieads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads, and his tail drew 
the third part of tho stars of heaven and aid cast thetn to th^; earth ; and 
the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for 
to devour h^-r child as soon as it was born." Kev. xii, 1. 4. And there 
appeared e ^reat wonder in heaven, signifies revelation A*om the Lord 
concerning the New Church in thfi heavens and on earth, and concerning 
the difficult reception and resistance which its doctrines will meet with. A 
woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, signifies the 
IjOrd's New Church in the heavens, which is the new heaven, and the 
Lord's New Church about to be upon earth, which is the New Jerusalem, 
lor it has pleased the Lord in His Word to cause Hi-^ Church to bo rejii-e- 
sented under the similitude of a woman, as well as by the symbol of a city, 
as witness " Come hither, and I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb'9 
wife." Rev. xxi. 9. Where by the Lamb is signified tLeLoRD as to the 
essential innocence of His Divine Human nature, and by the bride is 
signified His church, represented by the New Jerusalem about to be con- 
joined to Him^. The reason why she appeared clothed with the sun is, 
because this church is principled in love to the Lord, for it acknowledges 
Him. and does His commandments, and this is to love Him. By the m ton 
is signified intelligence in the natural man, and faith, and the reason why 
the moon was seen ander her feet is, because the church on earth is 
understood, which is not yet conjoined with the church in heaven; by ap- 
pearing under her feet is further signified that it is about to be upon 
earth, and will as to doctrine bo grounded on the divine truths of the 
' Word; and.upon her head a crown of twelve stars, signifies the wisdom 
:',;ui intellinence of this church fVora knowledges of divine good and 
liivine truth derived ft-om the Word; by the crown on her head is signified 
wiKiiom and intelligenoe,and by stars are signified the knowledges of divine 
good and truth. And she being with child, cried, travailing in birth, and 
pained to be delivered, signifies the doctrine of the New Church about to 
come forth, and its difficult reception in consequence of the resistance 
it moots with from those who are understood by the dragon. To be with 
child si^oi'^estho hirth of doot^ue, because b^ tbe child which was in tl^Q 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIBE. 



11 



:o the Son of 
nt down to 
ith, for gar- 
ith a golden 
iiiing divine 
[nitied, as ia 
Dnotl.as also 
^ame ef fire, 
ce unto fine 
ural ; fire, or 
ruth natural, 
isa, aa if the^ 
voice as the 
in the Word 
lowledgea of 
th the angels 
a sharp two- 
aiicl by doc- 
I siiu shining 
ill things of 
)tthe Lord 
all things of 
cometh, it ia 
18. signifying 
of the LoBD 
rally under- 
the morning 
jreat wonder 
ler her feet, 
with child, 
ere appeared 
having seven 
lis tail drew 
earth ; and 
elivered, for 
And there 
m the LoBD 
I concerning 
leetwith.A 
jignities the 
'en, and the 
Jerusalem, 
to be rej)i'6- 
jolofacity, 
the Lamb' 9 
RD as to the 
he bride is 
to be con- 
the sun is, 
iknowledges 
"y the m >on 
reason whv 
on earth is 
,ven ; by ap- 
ito be upon 
luths of the 
he wisdom 
|e good and 
' is signiiied 
;e8 of divine 
birth, and 
■ch about to 
|e resistance 
To be with 
was in tl^Q 



womb, whose birth is treated of in ver. 5. is signified the doctrine of the 
New Church, for nothing else is signified by being with child or in travail 
and bringing, forth, in the spiritual sense of the word, but tojsonceive and 
bringforth those things which relate to s})iritual life. 

And there appeared another wonder in heaven; signifies revelafloa 
from the Lord eonceming those who are against the New Church, 
and its doctrine. And behold a great red dragon, signifies those in the 
Reformed Church who make God three, and the Lord two, and separate 
Charity from Faith, and insist on the latter being competent to salvation 
without the former. Such are here meant and in what follows, by the 
dragon : for they are against the two essentials of the New Church, which 
are, that God is one in essence and in person, in whom there is a Trinity, 
and that the Lord is that God; also that charity and ikith area one aa 
an ossence.and its form ; and that none have charity and faith but those 
who live according to the commandments, which say that ovils are not to 
be done, and in proportion as any one does not commit evils, by shunidng 
them as sins against God, in the same proportion he does the goods whicn 
relate to charity, and believes the truths which relate to faith ; having 
seven heads, denotes insanity ftom the profanation and fabification of 
the truths of the Word; and ten horns, which denotes much power, and 
seven crowns upon his heads, signifies all the truths of the Word falsified 
and profkned ; and his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and 
did oast them to the earth, signifies that, by falsifications of the truths of 
the Word they have alienated all spiritual knowledges of good and truth 
fi-om the church, and by application to false doctrines have entirely des- 
troyed them : and the aragon stood before the woman who was ready to 
be delivered, to devour her child as soon as it was born, signifies that 
they who are meant by the dragon will endeavour to extinguish the doc- 
trine of the New Church at its birth. In the narrative continued in ver^e 
5, by "she brought forth a male child," is denoted the doctrine of the 
New Church ; "who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, signifies 
which, by truths from the literal eense of the Word, and at the same time, 
by rational arguments drawn from the light of nature, will convince all 
who are in dead worship through being principled in faith separated ffom 
charity that are willing to be convinced. " And her child was caught up 
to God and to his-throne," signifies the protection of the doctrine by the 
Lord because it is for the use of the new church, and its being guarded 
by the angels of heaven. " And the woman fled into the wlldemeBS." 
signifies the new church which is the new Jerusalem, at first confined to 
a few, where there are no longer any truths, for by a wilderness in the 
Word, is signified. 1. The church devastated, or in which all the truths of 
the Word are fiilsified, such as it was among the Jews at the time of the 
Lord's advent. II . The church in which there WM*e no truths, from not 
possessing the Word, such as it was among the well-disposed Gentiles in 
the Lord's time. III. A state of temptation, in which man is, as it were, 
without truths, because surrounded by evil spirits who induce tempta- 
tions, and and then, as it were, deprive him of truths. It will be seen 
ttova. this that a spiritual wilderness is In exact correspondence with a 
natural wilderness, which signifies a place where there is little or no 
water, for water denotes truth. Passages ironi the Word in corroboration 
of these statements are too numerous to be cited here, but will occur to 
every attentive reader of its contents. And the city hac no aeed of the 
Sdtt, neither of the Moon, to shine in it, for the ijiory of God did lighten 
it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. Rev. xxl., 23. By the sun is here 
signified natural love separate from spiritual love, which is self love; and 
by the moon is signified intelligence and also faith natural, separated from 
intelligence and faith spiritual, which is self-derived intelligence and faith 
from self; this love, and this intelligence and faith, are here signified by 
the sun and moon, which will not oe required to shine upon those who 
Will be in the Lord's New Church; by the glory of God which lightens It, 
is signified the divine truth of the Word, and bocause that light is f^om 
the Lord, it is said that the light thereof is the Lamb. " That ye may be 
the children of your Father who ia in heaven ; for he maketh his Sun to 
rise on the evil an<i the good,nnd sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust," 
Matt, y., 15, signifies in the spiritual sense that from the Lord, aa a sun 



r; 



1. 1 



i II 

1 1. 



12 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GUIDE. 



— >■-*? 'Or- 



9i 



proceeds light and heat ; the light which proceeds, inasmuch as it is apiri- 
tual light, is the divine truth, and the heat inasmuch as it is spiritual heat, 
is the airine love ; these flow from the Lobd continually into every man, 
but are variously received according to the state of the recipient: by the 
evil tuev are turned into evil ana what is false, by the good they are 
received as good and truth, and are thus comforted ana built up by 
them. The correspondence is closely seen iu the ca^ of the sun ol'uaturu, 
which although it emits nothing but light and heat into external objects, 
still the effects are very different on a putrid carcass, and the grow* 
ins fruits of the earth, or a beautiAil flower garden. Again, in David, 
" Uis seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the Suk b^ore me. It 
shall be established for ever as the Moon," Ps. lxxxIx., 96, 37. By David, 
who is here treated of in the literal sense^ is understood the Loud. Bv 
his seed which shall endure for ever, is signifled the divine truth, and all 
those who shall receive it. By Uis throne which shall endure a8 the sun, 
is signillid heaven and His church, which are principled in celestial good, 
which is the good of love. By His throne which shall be established as 
the moon for over, is eignified heaven and the church wbich are principled 
in spiritual good, which is the divine truth. Concerning those who love 
the LoBD it is written, "Let them who love Him be as the Sun when he 

Soeth forth in his might/' by which is signified the operation of the Lord's 
ivinelove in them. Again, in Is. lx..^, "Thy Sun shall no more go 
down ; neither shall thy Moon withdraw itself; for the Loud shall be 
thine everlasting light. ''^ These words treat of the Lord, and of the new 
heaven and. new earth, that is concerning the church to be established by 
Him. That the good of love to the Lora should not perish, nor the good 
of charity towards their neighbour in those who belong to that church, is 
understood by, " Thy sun shall no more go down, neither shall thy moon 
withdraw itself;" That they shall continue to eternity in truths from tlie 

{;ood of love, la understood by, "The Lord shall be thine eveiiasting 
ight, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended," everlasting light 
being predicated of those who are in the good of love to the Lord, and 
ending of the days of mourning, of those who are in the good of charitv 
towards their neighbour. In an opposite sense, we have, "The Sun shall 
not smite thee bv day nor the Moon by night, Tbe Lord shall preserve 
thee from all evil ; he shall preserve thy soul," Ps. cxxi., 6, 7. By the sun 
is here understood the love of self, and by the moon the false principle 
thence derived; inasmuch as all evil is from that love, and from evil what 
is false, therefore it is said, "The Lord shall preserve thee fVom all evil; 
he shall preserve thy soul," the soul here signifying tbe life of truth. 
This la the sun meant by our blessed Lord in the parable when he says, 
" But when the Sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root 
it withered away," Mark IV., 6. This is the sun that has ripened and 
brought forth more direful fruits of evil than all other causes combined, 
having in short, populated hell with inhabitants, and filled the earth with 
everv phase of woe and misery which it contains ; it is the very opposite 
of that Sun of which it is written; " But unto you that fear my name 
shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in his wings," llal. iv., 
2. The sun of righteousness here denotes the divine celestial principle, c*- 
the Lord as to the good of love ; and the wings of the Lord in which 
there is healing signifies truth f^om that good, which is tbe divine spiritual 
principle ; ; healing denotes reformation thereby From t his uncreated and 
Infinitely glorious Sun, as from a boundless ocean, is derived alltheble8s< 
ings of love, wisdom, mercy and happiness enjoyed by all in heaven or on 
earth ; through and by the reception of its influent life every thing exists, 
without it nothing can exist, either in the visible or the invisible creation, 
and just so far as our wills and understandings are expanded to receive 
and appropriate the inefiiEible delights which it communicates, just so pure, 
unsullied and seraphic will bo our joys and beatltu<1«»H both in this world 
and that which is to come, for in that Saorxd prbsk.vcb there is fulness 
of joy, and pleasures for evermore. 

Kote the correspondence of oil and wine in the parable, where our 
Lord said of the Samaritan, that coming to tbe man who was wounded 
by thieves, he bound up his wounds, and poured in oil and wine, Luke x. oi 
liybere bjr oU «ud wine is not meant these things, but the good of love ai^^ 



cha 
offi 
tow 
enei 

XX f 

to 



^asitisapiii- 
piritual heat, 
» every man, 
)ient: by the 
jod they are 
built up by 
mn ol nature, 
ernal objeota, 
id the grow- 
in, in David, 
»efore roe. It 
37. By David, 
\Q LoBD. By 
truth, and all 
i^a8the»un, 
seleatial ^ood, 
oetablitihed as 
are principled 
lose who love 
Sun when ho 
fi of the Lord's 
11 no more go 
^>KD shall be 
,ud of the new 
established by 
, nor the good 
that church, is 
ihall thy moon 
ruths from tlie 
ine eveiiaBttng 
erlasting light 
the Lord, and 
bod of oharitv 
' The Sun shall 
shall preserve 
. By the sun 
false principle 
from evil what 
fl-om all evil; 
life of truth, 
when he says, 
it had no root 
Eis ripened and 
ises combined, 
the earth with 
very opposite 
fear my name 
tigs," lial. iv., 
il principle, c* 
jORD in which 
li vine spiritual 
uncreated and 
allthebless- 
^. heaven or on 
■y thing exists, 
^ible creation, 
Ided to receive 
18, just 80 pure, 
J in this world 
here is fulness 

\e, where our 
I was wounded 
ine, Luke x. 81 
lodoflovei^A^ 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANg GUIDE. 



13 



charitv, by oil the good of love and by wine the good of charity, and 
of faith, for the subject treated of is concerning the neighbour, thus charity 
towards him, " Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine 
enemies : Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over," Ps. 
XXIII. 5. To prepare a table and anoint the head with oil denotes 
to be gifted with the good of charity and love; my cup runneth 
over, denotes that the natural principle will be thence filled with good and 
truth. Again, "I have found David my servant, with my holy oil have 
I anointed him "Ps. lxxxix. 20 where by David is meant the Lord, 
the oil of holiness with which he was anointed, signifies the Divine good 
of the Divine love. By the oil or ointment on the head and beard of Aaron, 
Ps. cxxxiiT. is denoted celestial and spiritual good or the good of love to 
the LoBD and the goad of charity to tne neig!ibour, for it is compared to 
the dew of Hermon that descended upon the mountains of Zion ; tor there 
the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. By the dew 
of Hermon that descended upon the mountains of Zion is signified that 
holy principle of divine truth proceeding from celestial good which causes 
unutterable felicity in the mind of the man in whom it reigns, and which 
is described as that "peace which passeth all understanding." From oil 
denoting celestial good and spiritual good we mav see the reason why it was 
used in the anointing of the Kings of Israel, also the siguificance of tho 
anointing oil for the priests, and its use on the vessels and lamps of tho 
tabernacle, as well as in the flour aud cakes for the ofi'erings &c. From 
this also may be understand the meaning of oil in the parable of the ten 
virgins. Matt. 3(xv. 1. and the command not to hurt the wine and tho 
oif, Rev. VI. 6, and a hundred other places when it is mentioned in tlie 
Word. To descend to lower things, see with what quietness and beauty a 
line of shafting will run at a high velocity on brass bearings when well 
lubricated with oil ; brass corresponds to natural good and ou to celestial 
good ; try the same experiment on iron bearings, without oil, iron corres- 
ponds to natural or sensual truth, which is hard and grating, and witness 
the consequences! Let us ascend a step higher and witness the delight 
we experience in holding intercourse with a person of a sincere, kind, 
considerate and obliging dispostion, for in his every word and look wo 
can behold in his countenance traces of that " oil which maketh the face 
to shine." 

We will find the correspondence of bread and water, and flesh and blood 
equally instructive. B'-ead and water are spoken of, when all the goods of 
love and truths of faitu are meant. Truth, in regard to good, is as water in 
regard to bread,or as drink in regard to meat, in nourishment. Bread soni- 
fies the primary principle which uourishes the soul, as it denotes the flesh 
of the Lord, by which is signified the divine gofid. or love, hence He says 
" The bread of God is he that cometh dowa from heaven, and giveth life 
unto the world " John vi. 33, and again," I am that bread ot hfe " vers. 
48, and teova. this it comes that the oread in the holy supjper denotes the 
Lord, and all the celestial principles of love as proceeding fro; i Him, 
which is meant when He says, " Whoso eateth my flesh, anddrinketh my 
bfood, hath eternal life ; and 1 will raise him up at the last day," (ver. 64) 
and again," He that eateth my llesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in 
me and I in him, verse 66. To eat the Lord's flesh and drink His blood is 
to receive His divine love in the heart or will, and His divine truth in the 
understandinjr, and to live a life according to them, for by this, conjunc- 
tion is efffected, and this is the reason why bread and wine were appointed 
to be used in the Holy Supper, for by bread la signified the Lord's divine 
love, and by wine is denoted His divine truth, eating signifying appro- 

Eriation and conjunction, hence the Lord's supper is in very deed the 
oliest act of worship. The bread of the sacrifices represented the good 
oflove to the Lord, nence it is written " Thou desirest not sacrifice, thou 
delightest not in burnt offfering; the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit," 
Ps. LI. 16, 17, by which Is signified an humble heart, which confesses that 
man's own intelligence is nothing, and that from the Lord alone proceed 
every thing of goodness and truth that man can receive. By bread in tlo 
Lord's prayer as well as in the holy supper, is signified in tho supreme 
sense, the Lord and the things of celestial love. In an opposite sense, to 
eat bread in tho sweat of the f&ce, Gen. iii, 19, represents colestialtrutha 



■m 










I: 



Ml i 



14 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



received in a state of aversion. The Children of Israel lasting for ./les?^ 
and the flesh pots of Egypt represents the desire of the natural man 
to live in a corporeal manner, tnat is, in the loves of self and the world, 
The flesh of the foreskin to be circumcised denotes the removal of the 
defiled loves of the natural man. The way of all flesh corrupted, signifies 
the understanding of truth totally destroyed in the corporeal state of man. 
By the call addressed to every feathered fowl, and every beast of the 
earth to eat of the flesh of the mighty and drink theblood of'^the princes of 
the earth, of rams, of lambs, of goats, of bullocks, etc., on the mountains 
of Israel, and to be filled with horses and chariots, mighty men, and all 
men of war, Ezek. xxxix, 16, 17, the Holy supper is signified, for in Rev. 
xjx, 17. it is called the supper of the Great God, by every feathered fowl, 
and by every beast of the field, is signified man as to his thoughts and afi^c- 
tious, or understanding and will ; the mountains of Israel denotes the good 
of love and charity ; these things which form the feast denote all spiritual 
and celestial things proceeding from the Lord Himself, as to the good of 
His divine love, and the divine truth of Hia wisdom. This is the spiritual 
sense of the pas8ap;e, for it is clearly impossible that such things could be 
literally eaten. The feast of unleavened bread, or Paschal, was to signify 
the subjugation of hell, and the glorification of the Lord's humanity, for 
it denotes His presence with deliverance, hence it was forbidden to eat of 
any thing leavened, because a fermenting agent denotes the false fk-omevil. 
Spiritual good is signified by those woras in Ezekiel: " A new heart also 
will I give you, ana k new spirit will I put within you ; and. I will take 
away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give vou a heart of 
flesh, XXXVI- 26. In the Word, fieart signifies love; hence tne love of good 
is signified by a heart of flesh. Water, in the Word denotes truth, and for 
this reason waters and rivers are described, where gardens and rivers arcs 
mentioned, as significatives of the man of the Church. To draw water 
denotes to be instructed in the truths of faith and to be illustrated. 
Drawers of water, such as the Gibeonites were, denote those who desire to 
know truths for no other end than to know them, A flood of water denotes 
temptation and desolation, because wicked persuasions and thoughts acta- 
allyflowinfromevilspirits. Wells of unclean water denote what is not true. 
Broken cisterns denote doctrines in which are no truths. In beautiful corres- 
pondence with this divine symbol of truth we will find that in physios, or 
the science of natural things, that man appliea the same standard to ascer- 
tain the weight of solids and liquids, edch being said to be heavy or litrlit 
specifically as they relate to water; thus the exact weight of a cubic inch of 
gold, compared with that of a cubic inch of water. Is called its specific 
gravity. Weight, spiritually considered, Is nothing else than real worth, 
nence we have the expressions, solid men, orimen of worth or truth, aucl 
weighty words, or words of wisdom. Furthermore, as Omnipotent power is 
continually predicated of the Lord as having relation to tne principle of 
His divine truth, and this truth being symbolized by water, so none 
in civilized life can possibly be ignoranc of the oorrespondinff prodigious 
power derived ftom water in the various uses it periorms iix tlio 
world, and the cleansing properties of divine truth on the heart, 
when it is applied to the life, and water, when it is applied to th ) 
body, should oe equally well known. Some may be solicitous to 
know the reason why so much is said regarding love and wisdom, 
or good and truth in the above passages, and the enquiry is reasonable 
ana just. In answer to this 1 would state that all the attributes 
and perfections of the ever blessed God resolve themselves as in a focun 
into these two, viz : Love and Wisdom, or what is the same. Good and 
Truth, corresponding to heat and light, or what is the same, warmth and 
Illumination, as proceeding from tne sun of nature, and these in tho 
Crbator form a one, constituting what has been called a marriage of 
good and truth. Man, being creafed in the imago of God, ought to pre- 
sent a finite transcript of those attributes which exist to an infinite extent 
in his Maker, and on examination this will be found to be the case, for thorn 
is no quality inherent in man but what belongs either to his will or under- 
standing. What does not belong to one of these, forms no part ol tho man, 
and these together form one mind, and tho mind is what constitutes tho 
man himself, tb§ |?ody being merely a clothing eliminated from the ultimate 



E. 

sting for flesh 
3 natural man 
md the world, 
■emoval of tho 
ipted, aigniflea 
ifatateofman. 
ry beast of tho 
if the princes of 
the mountains 
ty men, and all 
Bed, for in Rev. 
feathered fowl, 
ight$ and afCec- 
enotes the good 
ote all spiritual 
} to the good of 
J is l^e spiritual 
things could be 
I, was to signify 
s humanity, for 
bidden to eat of 
e false firoin evil. 
L new heart also 
and I will take 
I you a heart of 
tne love of good 
tes truth, and for 
as and rivers aro 
To draw water 
) be illustrated. 
088 who desire to 
of water denotes 
id thoughts actu- 
i) what is not true, 
[i beautiful corres- 
hatinphyfiics, or 
[tandard to ascer- 
)e heavy or litiht 
of a cubic inch of 
sailed its specilio 
than real worth, 
•th or truth, and 
lipotent power is 
the principle of 
water, so nono 
iding prodigious 
performs in tlio 

I on the heart, 
is applied to th ) 
[be solicitous to 
re and wisdom, 
liry is reasonable 

II tho attributes 
ives as in a focus 

same, Good and 

,me, warmth and 

ind these in tho 

jd a marriage of 

lOD, ought to prc- 

in infinite extent 

„he case, for thorn 

[his will or under- 

part oi tho man, 

,t constitutes tho 

from the ultimate 



APPENDIX TO THB ARTIZANS' GUIDE, 



15 



things of nature, sach aa carbon, phoaphoms. ailioon chlorine, phOAphate 
of lime, sulphur, iron, magnesium, water, potassium, &o. &c., of all of 
which man Is divested by natural death, never more to resume them, but 
nevertheless he Unds himself in the other life, possessed of the human 
form, and every member, ftculty and sense whicn be ei^ved in this life, 
but much more keen, delicate and refined, by purification ik-om the things 
of nature. Those things Just mentioned are what constitute flesh and 
blood, of which it is written, that they shall not inherit the Kingdom of 
GK)D, and one has well observed that you may as well attempt to raise a 
ship fi-om the bottom of the ocean and leave down there all the wood and 
iron, as to raise a natural body without flesh and blood. We are mv ^a at 
a loss to conceive what possible improvement could be efl'ected by the 
anion of natural bodies to the spiritual bodies of those countless myriads 
which formed the mighty population beheld in heaven by the beloved dis- 
ciple in the Isle of Patmos. Let us go a step further and investigate the 
works of God as seen in the visible creation, and here everything will be 
seen to reflect the attributes of the Almighty, out always in correspondence 
with His love and wisdom, or goodness and tru-h. From this oorrespon- 
dence every thing seems to go In pairs, for here vvo find male and female, 
body and soul, sun and moon, heat and light, laud and water, flesh and 
blood, heart and lungs, gold and silver, brass and iron, and so on through- 
out all the ramifications of nature even down to the ultimates. What is 
true of God's works inust in a still more exalted sense be true of that 
Word which is the transcript of His own perfections, and the embodiment 
of His divine love and wisdom; hence it comes that in the Word there is 
nothing but what has constant reference to either one or theother of these 
attributes, or of something in connection wit 'hem, or in opposition to 
them, such as evil and the false, and from thi .-ises further, an apparent 
repetition of the same idea, sentiment or thou^^nt, very often in the course 
of a single verse, but it ought to be known that one of these expressions 
^as relation to the divine Love, and the other to the divine Wisdom, or 
B\.mething in connection with them, or in opposition to them, as no vain 
reiteration can ever be predicated of the divine Word. In order to analyze 
tho subject still further, take for instance that inimitable blessing wherewith 
Aaron and bis sons were commanded to bless the children of Israel : " The 
Lord bless thee and keep thee, the Lord make His face to shine upon 
thee, and be gracious into tnee : the Lord lift up hie countenance upon thee, 
and give thee peace." Numb, vi, 24,26. In the internal sense these words 
signify that the Lord from divine love flows in with divine truth and with 
dtvine good into all those who receive Him. The divine love from which 
the Lord flows in is understood by the face of the Lord, and the divine 
truth with which he flows in, is understood by the Lord making His fkce 
to shine upon them ; and the divine good with which He flows in,is under- 
stood by the Lord lifting up Hia countenance upon them; defence from 
evils and ftilsities, which otnerwise would take away the influx is under- 
stood by " the Lord keep thee and be gracious unto thee," heaven and 
eternal felicity, which are the gifl of the Lord by His divine goodness 
and divinetr nth, are understood by " and give thee peace," for wnen evils 
are removed from man, the interior of his mind is filled with celestial 
beatitudes and joy unspeakable. In their inmost sense these divine expres- 
sions contain such a deep meaning,and embrace such transcendent blessings 
that even a very faint idea of them is in a manner incommunicable to man 
in his present state of existence. Again in David, " Thy mercy, O Lc)Rd 
is In the heavens ; and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy 
righteousness is like the great mountains, thy judgments are a great 
deep," Ps. XXXVI. 6 7. Wnere mercy and righteousness have relation to 
the love of God, and faithfulness and judgment have relation to His 
truth. Again in Isaiah, " And on this mountain shall the Ix>rd of hosts 
make unto all people afeast offat thing,:, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat 
things Aill of marrow, Oi" wines on the !ees well refined," xxv. 6. Tho 
subject treated of is concerning the advent of the I<ord, and by a feast of 
fiit things is denoted the communication of goods, and by a f^ast of lees or 
of the best wine, the appropriation of truths. Again in Genesis, " Juda'i 
is a lion's whelp; from the prey, my son, thou art gone up; he stooped 
down, he couche4 t^s a lion and as an old lion \ who shall rouse him up?" 






16 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



ZLix. 9. By Jndah is here sieniflod the LoRD'B''cele8tial kinsdom, where 
all are in Dower fVora the Lord by divine truth ; this power is understood 
vy alien s whelp, ana by an old lion; by the prey ft-om which he went up, 
Is siffnifled the dissipation of ialsities and evils; by stooping down is 
elKnined to put himself into power; by couching is signitied to be iu secu- 
rity flrom every falsity and evil, wherefore, it is said, " who shall rouse him 
up." Again, O Lord nay God thou art very great, thou art clothud with 
honour and majesty," Ps. civ. 1. There by bcinsc clothed with honour 
and majesty, when predicated of the Lord, is signitied his girdnig Himself 
with divine truth and divine good, for they proceed from Him, and thenco 
gird iiim^nd thus constitute heaven. Again in John, " In the beginning 
was the Word and the Word was with Uod, and the Wono was Gf d. 
The same was in the beginning with God. All things were madn by him, 
and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was 
life: and the life was the light of men," Johni. I. 4. From thebf 
passages it is evident that the Lord U God from eternity, and that 
this God is Himself the Lord who was born into the world, for 
it is said that the Word was with God and God was the Word; 
as, also, that without Him was not anything made that was maue, 
Why the Lord is called the Word, is but little unde.-stood u 
the Church; He is however called the Word because the Word 
slgnifles Divine Truth, or Divine Wisdom; and the Lord is Divine Tra:h 
itself, or Divine Wisdom itself, for which reason He is likewise called the 
Lioht which lighteth every man that conicth into the World. From iho. 
Life and liio^T which pervades the Word comes the vivifleatioa of the 
affections of that man's will who reads it devoutly; and the illuminatloii 
of the thoughts of his understanding, there being something intimately 
affecting the heart and spirt which flows with light into the mind, and 
bears witness. Divine Love and Divine Wisdom constitute a one, and wer^ 
fir )m eternity a one in the Lord, wherefore it is said, "In him was life 
and the life wa^ the light of men." This onenesi is meant by these words, 
'' In the beginning was the Word and the Woud was God." By the 
F-ither is denoted the Divine Love, or the Lord as to Divine Good. By the 
Word made flesh is signified the Lord as to the Divine Human principle 
which He assumed by being born into the world, from whence He is 
called " the Only Begotten of the Father " the " sent of God " the " Arm 
of the Lord," for the Divine Good, or the Father, filled this Human prin- 
ciple as the soul fills the body, not indeed, in perfect fuluess at first, but 
beginning as it were from a germ, the Divine principle gradually expanded 
during His life on the earth, sustaining Him, and enabling Him to over- 
come, in the conflicts, combats and temptations admitted into His huma- 
nity from the powers of darkness, which wereof such a direful nature that 
they are utterly inconceivable by the mind of man. The Divine principle 
within denoted by the Father, was that Omnipotent power which enabled 
him to work miracles, so that He could sa;r, "The Father who dwelleth iu 
me, he doeth the works," and from this also emanated those gracious 
words which proceeded out of his mouth, of which it is said, " I have 

fiven them the words which thougavest me." Before his Incarnation tho 
(ORD existed in first princi{)le8 only, by assuming the Humanity He aa 
it were descended to the ultimate, or lowest principles, and from this He 
calls t limselt " the First and the Last," Rev. i, 17. The raerelyhuman qu li- 
ties derived from the mother were gradually eliminated from the assumed 
nature by temptations, sufferings, combats, conflicts and continual victories 
over the powers of darkness, who at this time held almost entire posses- 
sion of the human race; by these yiotories He removed hell from man, and 
restored " that which He took not away," even man's liberty to choose 
life or death for himself, and furthermore glorified His Humanity, and 
made it Divine, or One with that Divine Good in which he existed from 
crc nity, so that He could say before His ascension : " all power is given 
unto me in heaven and in earth," Matt, xxviii. 18, and after full and com- 
plete glorification. He could say to the beloved disciple in Patmos, " I am 
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which 
is, and whiclf was, and which is to come, the Almighty," Rev. i, 8. The 
I Lord in the Word, is called Loud, (or Jehovah, in Iiebrew, when the 
word Lord iti printed in capitals), from the good oi Jlis diviue tpve, m^ 



APPENDIX TO THE ABTIZANS' GUIDE. 



17 



m , where 
iderHtood 
weut up, 
down i» 
e in secu- 
■0U80 bim 
;hed with 
h lionoup 
; Himself 
Qd thence 
30giuniug 
was GfD. 
loby him, 
him was 
om thesf 
and that 
rorld, foi 
e WoRO; 
as maue, 
'Stood iJ 
le Word 
nneTraih 
called the 
From iho 
ion of the 
uminatioa 
iatima". ely 
mind, and 
!, and wpr^ 
n was life 
ese words, 
" By the 
)d. By the 
a. principle 
nee He Ih 
the " Arm 
iman prin- 
first, but 
expanded 
m to over- 
His huma- 
ature that 
. principle 
oh enabled 
Iwelleth in 
le gracious 
"I have 
nation thu 
Dity He as 
)m this He 
manqu li- 
le assumed 
alvictoriea 
ire posses- 
man, and 
to choose 
anity, and 
isted from 
er is given 
1 and com- 
108, " I am 
RD, which 
1,8. The 
when the 
I^ove, »h4 



God, from the divine truth of His divine Wisdom; He is called Christ, 
tlie Anointed, in relation to His kingly office, and Jbsus, signifying salva- 
tion, in relation to His office as Saviour. He calls Himself the Son of God, 
when His divinity, His unity with the Father, His divine power, and the 
life that is from Mim, are treated of, and the Son of Man, when He as 
the Word, suffers. Judges, comes into the worid, redeems, saves, and 
regenerates. Jehovah, who was in Him, appeared to be absent in temp- 
tations, and this appearance was proportionable to the degree of His 
immersion in the humanity. Hence His prayers to the Father, in the 
Gospels and elsewhere; many of them can be seen in the I'salms, which 
as to their internal Eense treat of the Lord alone, under the figure of 
David as a king. The Lord coming forth from the Father, and returning 
to the Father, means the humanity proceodiug from the Divinity, and the 
union and glorification of the humanity. By the Lord's birth from ' 
eternity, is meant His birih foreseen from eternity, and provided for in 
time. By Loud God Almighty and the Lamb, mentioned Rev. 
XXI. 22, and elsewhere, is not meant two divine persons, but by Lord 
GuD Almighty or Lord God Omnipotent, is signified the Lord from 
eternity, wno is Jehovah Himself, and the Lamb signifies the divine 
Humanity which Jehovah assumed by birth into the world, by virtue o» 
which He became Emmanuel, or God with us. From these observations 
it may be seen that the Lord is the God of heaven and earth; thatia 
Him is the Divine Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Spirit, or the Wholb 
FuLisBSS of the Godhead, corresponding to the heat, light, and emanat- 
ing influence of the Sun, or of the soul, body, and proceeding operation in 
man, consequently that He alone is the only true Object of love and wor- 
ship, in whom is the Fatber, for " whoso seeth Him seeththe Father. 

In order to still further confirm the heavenly doctrine of the Supreme 
Divinity of our blessed Lord, and to show the falsity of the present pre- 
vailing doctrine which divides the Godheadinto three persons, " the same 
in substance, equal in power and glory," or, as it is expressed by the 
Athanasian Creed, three- persons, " each of whom by himself is God and 
Lord" (a doctrine which, and the assertion is made with all charity and 
respect for the numerous class who think otherwise, has no existence 
whatever in the Word, and was entirely unknown in the Church until 
about the time of the Nicene Council), it is thought proper to adduce the 
following passages from the Word. First of all, to prove the Unity of the 
Divine Being, see (Deut. vi. 4.) "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is Onb 
Loud." This divine truth is repeated by the blessed Jesus in Mark xii. 
29. "I am Jehovah and there is none else." Isa. xlv. 18, xlv. 6. " I, even I, 
am He,and there is No God with Me." Deut. xxxii, 39. There is none other 
God but Osb" 1 Cor. viii. 4. " Thou art the God, even thou Alonb, of all 
the kingdoms of the earth," 2 Kings xix. 16. " One is your Father which 
is in Heaven" Matt, xxiii. 9. Let us learn, with grateful reverence, who 
this our Heaveu / Father, Lord, and God is. Every passage of the fol- 
lowing evidence is refulgent with the light of divine truth, for they proceed 
ftom Him who is the Truth itself, " Unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son 
is given, and the government shall be upon His shoulders, and His name 
shall becalled. Wonderful, Counsellor, the Miqhty God, the Everlast- 
ing Father, the Prince of Peace," Isa. ix.6. "Thou O Jehovah art our 
Father, our TlKrEEMBR, thyName is from everlasting," Isa. Ixiii. 16. 
" Surely God is in Thee, and there is None else, there is no god, verily 
thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour" Isa. 
xlv. 14. 16. This is said in reference to His veiling over His divine glory 
with the Human nature. " Thou shalt know that I, Jehovah am thy 
SAViouRand Kedbemer, the Mighty One of Jacob" Isa. Ix, 16. " There 
ia no Gob else beside me, a just God and a Saviour, there is none beside 
me, look unto me; and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God 
and there is none else" Isa. xlv. 21. 22. " Thy Maker is thy Husband; 
Jehovah of hosts, is His name, and thv Redbemer the Holy One of 
Israel; the God ob" thk whole earth shall Ho be called," Isa. liv. 6. 
There can be no uncertainty as to who is meant by these announcements. 
" Thus saith Jehovah the King of Israel and His Redeemer, .Jkhovah 
of Hosts; I am the First, and I am the F^ast, and beside me there, is »■• 
CrOD," Isa. xliv. 6, " i am Jehovau thy God, the Holy Oae of Israel ti. r 






18, \ ^Appendix ^TO the artizan's gutdb.^ 

Saviour" Isa. xliii. 3, " Thoa hast redeemed me, Jbuovah God of 
truth," Pa. xxxi. 6, " 1 will help thee, saith Jkhovah and thy Ubdkembr, 
the Holy One of Israel,"' Isa. xli. 14, " As for our Rkdbkhkr, Jehovah 
OF Hosts is His Namb, the Holy One of Israel," Isa. xlvii. 4. , " Thus 
saith Jehovah thy IIedbbmbb, and He that formed thee from the womb ; 
I am Jbiiovau that maketh ail things, that stretchcth forth the heavens 
alone, that sprradeth abroad the earth by myself," Isa. xliv. 24, " I, even 
I, am Jehovah and besides Me there is no Savioub," Isa. xliii. 11. 
" Thus saith Jkhovah, your Rbdbehbb, the Holy One of Israel," ver. 14, 
" With everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith Jehovah thy 
KuDEEMER," Isa. Uv. 8, <' Thus saith Jehovah thy Redeemer, the Holy 
One of Israel ; I am Jehovah thy GfOD which teaoheth thee to profit, 
which leadeth thee by the way thou shouldst go," Isa. xlviii. 17 " With 
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith Jehovah thy Re- 
DBBMBR, Isa. iv. 8, " Their Rbdbbhbr is strong, Jehovah of Hosts is His 
ISame," Jer. 1. 84. " I am thy God fl*om the land of Egypt, and thou shalt 
know no God but Mb, for there is No Saviour Bbsidb Mb" Hob. xiii. 4, 
" Thus saith Jehovah, that formed thee O Israel, fear not, for I have 
RRDBTOMBD THKE," Isa. xUii. 1, " Be strong, fear not; behold your God 
will come with vengeance, evenGk>D with a recompense, be will come and 
save vou." Isa. xxxv, 4, " The Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song, 
he also is become my salvation," Isa. xii. 2, " Behold Jbhovah God 
8hall come with strong hand, and His arm shall rule for Him, He shall feed 
his flock like a shepherd," Isa. xl. lO.-ll. The Saviour lays claim to this 
title, Johnx. 11. " Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my 
heart, be acceptable in thy sight O JEHOVAH,my strength, and my Rbdkbm- 
ER," Ps.xix. 14, " But God shall Rbdbbh my noumom the power of the 
i^rave, he will receive me," Pa. xlix. 15, " I will also praise thee with the 
psaltery, even thy truth, O my God ; unto thee will I sing with the harp, 
thou Holy One of Israel. My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto 
thee; and my soul, which thou hast RBDBEMBD,"Psa. lxxi22-23, "For Godis 
my King, of old.working salvation in the midst of the earth," Psa. Ixxiv. 12. 
"They remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their 
IlEDBBMBR," Psa. Ixxviii. 35. " I will praise thee O Jbhovah my God,— 
thouhast deliveredmy sovZ^flrom tf>e lowest hell," Psa. Ixxxvi. 12-13, ''Bless 
Jbhovah, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who redeenteth thy life 
from destruction; who crowneth thee with loving kiudnesr and tender mer« 
cied," Psa. ciii. 2-4, "Let Israel hope in Jbhovah, for with Je- 
hovah there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption, and 
he shall redeem Israel f^om all his Iniquities" Psa. cxxx, 
7-8, " O God Jbhovah, the strength qf my salvation, thou 
hast covered my head in the day of battle" ^'*i. cxl. 7. By which 'a 
signified, humble aolcnowledgement that redemption, protection, and con- 
sequentiy deliverance from hell, are fh>m the Lord alone, " O give thanks 
unto Jehovah, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever, L.et the 
redeemed of Jkhovah say so, whom he hath redeemed f^om the tiand of the 
enemy." Ps, cvii. 1-2, " Jbhovah liveth; and blessed bo my rock; and let 
the God of my salvation be exalted," Fs, xviii. 46, " And they remembered 
that God was their Rock, and the high God their Rbdbbmbr," Ps. Ixxviii. 
85, " They forgot God their Saviour, which had done great things in 
Egypt," P8. cvi, 21, "Th« salvation of the righteous is of Jbhovah; he is 
their strength in the time of trouble," " Truly in Jbhovah our God is the 
salvation of Israel, Jer. iii. 23. In the New Testament, Jamea calls our 
Blessed Redeemer, the " Lord ofglory." The Lord of glory can be none 
other than the King of glory. '* Who is this Kino ofglory? Jehovah of 
Hosts, he is the King ofglory," Ps, xxiv., 10. In Rev. xix. 16. the Lord as 
to the Word, is described as havingon his vesture and on his thigh, aname 
written. Kino of Kings, and Lord of Lords. This sacred truth is re- 
echoed by Paul when ho declares Christ to be " The blessed and onlv 
Potentate, the King of Kings, and Lord of Lords, tcho only hath immortal- 
ity," I. Tim. vi. 16. Elsewhere he says, " For of him, and by him, and 
tbrongh him are all things ; to whom be glory for ever. Amen, "Jbhovah 
thy God in the midst of thee Is mighty, he will save, he will r^oice over 
tiiee with joy," Zeph. iii. 17, " I will rejoice in Jehovah, I will joy in the 
UoD of my salvation," Hab, iii, 18, " I will look unto Jbhovah, 1 will 






5VAH God of 

ly USDKEHSR, 
[KR, JkHOVAH 

fit 4. , " Thus 
om the womb ; 
h the heavens 
V. 24, " I, even 

Isa. xliii. 11. 
Brael," ver. 14, 

JKHOVAH thy 

MKU, the Holy 
thee to profit, 
riii. 17 " With 
ovAH thy Re- 
>p Hosts 13 Uia 
and thou ahalt 
k" Ho9. xiii. 4, 
lot. for I have 
aold your God 
» will come and 
h and my song, 
Fbhovah God 
m, He shall feed 
ys claim to this 
editation of my 
id my Rbdbkm- 
le power of the 
le tliee with tho 
with the harp, 
lien I sing unto 
1-23, "For Godla 
" Psa. Ixxiv. 12. 
ligh God their 
TA.n my God,— 
vi. 12-13, "Bloss 
<fce»»e<A thy life 
md tender mer- 
for with Jb- 
•edemption, and 
Psa. ex XX, 
Ovation, thou 
By which '.s 
jotion, and con- 
"Ogive thanks 
prever, Let the 
the hand of the 
ly rock ; and let 
ley remembered 
;B,"PB.lxxviii. 
;reat things in 
bhovah; he is 
[ our God ia the 
amea calls our 
iry can be none 
r? ,1 bhovah of 
18. the Lord as 
isthigb.aname 
ired truth is re- 
.essed and onlv 
hath immortal- 
Ind by him, and 
len, "Jehovah 
ill rejoice over 
, will joy in the 
BHOVAH, 1 will 



APPENDIX TO THJB AETIZAN'S GUIDE. 



19 



wait for thfl God of m;/ aalwttion; my Ood shall hear me" MIcah. vil. 7, 
" The voice oi'him that orieth in the wilderness. Prepare ye the way of the 
Jehovah, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every vallev 
shall 06 exalted, and every mountain and nill snail be made low," Isa. xl. 
8-4. ^y which is signified, the mission o/ John the Baptist preparins tho 
way fbr Christ's Advent by the preaehing of repentance, baptism, ana the 
remission of sins, at a time when there were no truths left in the Church, 
but what were falsified and made of none eflbot. By " every valley shall be 
exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be laid low," is not meant these 
natural objects but thee^^ltation into heaven of those who are meek and 
lowly in heart, or poor in spirit.and the removal and remission to their final 
abode of the wicked who have lived in the pride of self-love and the love of 
the world, for all such avert firom themselves the divine protection, and are 
in conjunction with hell The influx of divine truth flowing into 
their teriors, when the Lord oomee to judgment, causes such exceeding 
pain (knd torment >,o the wicked, that they actually cast themselves head- 
1 ng into hell Th&t the Lobd executed such a judgment when on earth, 
is most evident both I'rom the literal and spiritual sense of many passages 
in the Word ; reference will b made to some of them in what follows, and 
that the last judgment foretold in the Eevelatlon, and many other places, 
has also taken place, may be seen proved in the writings to be mentioned 
presently. It Is to be noted, however, that these general Judgments do 
not take place in the natural world, but in the spiritual world, mtu which 
all enter after death, '- after death the judgment." To continue. In the 
sublime vision described by Isaiah, chap, vi., the prophet relates that tho 
seraphim cried, " Holy, holy, holy is Jkhovah of Hosts; the whole 
earth is fUll of his glory." The message given to Isaiah at that time l3 
quoted in John xli. 88, 'J, where it is written, "Theso things spake 
Esaias, when he saw His glory, and spake of Him." and the apostle 
applies the whole as having reference to the Incarnate God in the person 
of the Blessed Saviour then on earth. The Hebrew term, Jkuovah, 
retained in the above passages, is always expressive of self existence, on* 
derived Being, and the Divine principle as to Love, while the term. Gop, 
is predicated of, and corresponds to, the Divine principle, as to Wisdom, 
or, whAt is the same. Truth, which always emanates or proceeds from 
the former, as light proceeds fh>m flre or heat. It was as the Divine 
Truth, or the Wobd, that the Lobd was made flesh and dwelt among 
us, but still he did not separate fi-om Himself the Divine Good or Love, 
denoted by the Father As previously stated, this existed in Him in but 
a comparatively small degree at the first, and glorification was a gradual 
work, extending over the whole of His earth^ lif^, progressing only as 
what was mere^ human was cast out, or made "peif^t through suffer- 
ings," until at last. He comprehended in His glorious Person "all the 
fulness of the Godhead bodily," and became God even as to His Human- 
ity having aU power In heaven and in earth." To have all power is to 
possess nothing less than exclusive and supreme Divinity, and notwith- 
standing the deplorable foot that this heavenly doctrine is not recognized 
in the prevailing Church, still it is the veriest truth in the universe, that 
He was the great Jehovah, or " God manifsst in the flesh," [1 Tim. iii. 16], 
and also " over all, God blessed for ever," Rom. ix. 5, for " by Him were 
all things created that are in heaven trn^ that are in earth, .Isible and 
invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities or 
powers ; all things were created by Him and for Him, ana He is before all 
things, and by Him ati things consist." Col. I. 16, 17. With all this 
evidence before us we may well unito with Jude in snying, " To the only 
wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, 
both now and ever. Amen." 

We may see from ihe above passages as in the very light of heaven, the 
great and glorious truth that the Blessed Jescs is Jehovah, the God ob 
Heaven and Earth, the Lord op Glory, the first and the last, 
THE Mighty God, the Everlastino Father, the Creator ov Alt 
things, rHE Redeemer op the World, God manifest in the Flesh, 
THE King op Kings and Lord op Lords, over all, God BLESfiED poa 
EVER, A Just god and a Saviour, besides whom there is konb else, 
ANP AS Br:H la hk'sihubu 'soqur bxolusivb Loyb and Aoobation.-> 



• M 



I 



M 

? 1*1 






B 



'm 



m 



20 



APPENDIX TO TUB ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



And here we cannot omit notlolnff the ominous silonoe whiohpcrvadeii 
nut only the above pa<*iiaffe8 of Scripture, but also the entire Word, res* 
pectlng the doctrine which we bear thundered forth from so many pulpits, 
rogardinff a Hon of God born from eternity, called the Second Persou of 
tbe Trinity, who came into the world in order to satisfy what is called tho 
vindictive Justice of the first Person, and appease his wrath and vengeance 
against the human race on account of the violation of his law of which they 
were guilty, by taking on himself that punishment, which would otherwise 
have descended on the sinner, the implication being, that the attribute»i 
and perfections of God the Father, rendered itlmpossiDleforhim to forgivo 
the sinner until the majesty of his outraged law was vindicated and satis- 
fied to the uttermost, by the infliction or adequate punishment either en 
the innocent, or on the guiJty. The great majority of professing CbrlHtiauH 
retain this belief, tog -tlier with the doctnne of three distinct Persons id 
the Godhead, most of us having been educated in it from our Infancy, and 
so are not to blame in consequence, more especially as these doctrines are 
usuallv held ujp as an inexplicable mystery which it is almost a profana* 
tion either to investigate ordispute. A man under such circumstances is 
not to blame for holding this belief in ignorance, simplicity and innocence, 
even although it is un»criptural, for he will be instructed in the real truth 
in the next world, if not in this, and if his heart is good he will receive it 
must gratefully, for goodness always desires truth and union with it. But, 
if, on the other hand, a man should say that since Christ obeved the law 
tut- him and sufieied in his room and stead, therefore he is at liberty to do 
as he pleases, '.and forthwith carries that thought into action by plunging 
into & career of known evil and wickedness, under the belief that every- 
thing will beset right at last by a simple cry for mercy, and a " Lord save 
me, uttered on his death bed, such a line of thought and consequent 
action would be perfectly iv/amous. and after death the ruling love of 
such a man will infallibly entail a righteous retribution by carrying him 
to his like in hell, and what is wonderful, he goes there of his own accord. 
The power and love of evil draws him there. This is what we are fore^ 
warned to fear, Luke xii. 5, It is not God who sends him there, for it is 
impossibie for Him who is Mercy itself, to damn any one. The " Lord is 
good to alt, and his tender mercies are over all Hia works," thus even to 
the lowest hell. The true reason is " Ye will not come unto me that ye 
may have life." " Your iniquities have separated between you and your 
God, and vour sins have hid his face from vou." To return to the 
question of the Trinity, as commonly received, it is impossible to suppress 
tne enquiry, why is it that the second and third Persons of the Trinity, as 
de8cril)e(l by this scheme (the attributes and perfections of each person 
being essentially the same), have not, or do not, put forth an equal claim 
with the first peVson. to full, perfect, and complete satisfaction on account 
of Iheir violated law? Yet here we have them described as not only put- 
ting forth no such claims, but the second person is represented as coming 
forward and drinking the very dregs of the bitter cup of His Father's 
wrath, even to suffering the accursed death of the cross, and by this means 
satiafying or appeasing tbe so called Divine displeasure of the first person. 
One Doctrine of that new Dispensation which cometh down from God 
out of heaven, drawn f^om the Word, is, that God is Mercy Itself and 
Love Itself, and that wrath, fUry, anger and vengeance areas far removed 
trom the Divine nature as heaVen is from hell, yea, and infinitely farther. 
These are qualities which could not consistently be ascribed to a good 
man, because he would not be good if he possessed them, wherefore it is 
blasphemy to ascribe them to God. O wnon will mankind learn that it 
was love, love, unutterable. Infinite Love, that brought our Heaveuly 
Father into the world to save and redeem His erring children at the very 
period when they were about to be engulfed in eternal ruin through tbe 
undue preponderance of the powers ot hell over mankind. Most true it 
is that " God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that 
^vhosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life," 
John iii. 16, most true that " In His love and in His pity he redeemed us," 
Isa. xiii. 9, for " God was in Christ reconciled and reconciling guilty 
teinuers to Himself," being moved to that infinite condescension by a 
''love wUich pabioth k^owled^^e," Eph. iii. 19. Zacharias spoko 



we 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



21 



lipervades 
word, re«- 
i.w pulpits, 
Persou of 
s called tho 
Ivenffeance 
which they 
1 otherwise 
e attribut«»i 
n to forgive 
d and satis^ 
it either en 
; CbrlHtiana 
, Persoua iit 
nfancy, and 
octrines are 
b a profana* 
imstances is 
1 innocence, 
ke real truth 
ill receive it 
vithit. But, 
ved the law 
liberty to do 
jy plunging 
that every- 
" Lord save 
consequent 
iling love of 
larrying him 
own accord, 
we are fore- 
here, for it ia 
le "Lord is 
thas even to 
> me that yo 
ou and your 
iturn to the 
I to suppreea 
e Trinity, aa 
lach person 
equal claim 
^ on account 
[ot oulyput- 
' aa coming 
:is Father's 
, this means 
first person, 
m from God 
W Itself and 
far removed 
Jtely farther, 
to a good 
^erefore itia 
learn that it 
r HeavevJy 
at the very 
|th rough the 
ost true it 
n Son that 
[asting life," 
ieemed uh," 
iling guilty 
Inaion by a 
iaa spoko 



the truth when he tald, " BleiMd be the Lord Ood of Imel, tor He 
hath vi9ited and redeemed Hla people," Lake i, 68 i ftlto aged Suneon, 
when he said, " Lord, now lettoit tl)ou thy Borvant depart In peace, 
according to thy word, for mine ty$$ ha/ve aten, thff aalveUian," Luke 
ii., 29-80. This waa :aid of the only Begotten Son of Uod (bora of the 
virgin) in whom waa '.'^e Father, of whom It wm written, " Behold a 
virgin shall oonoelvo and I^ar a son, and shall call bis same Immannel," 
Isa. vii. 14. Yes, JoyfUl thought, Ue wm indeed and now i«, God with 
VB, so that all can say, " Lo, this is our God, we have waited for Him. 
we will be glad and rcdolce in His salvation." The saflbrings of Christ 
were great, beyond M human comprehension, and they were endured 
solely on our account and for our salvation, bat not to satisfy or appease 
the wrath of taxy one, but to satisfy His own Divine Love, for that 
desires nothing in comparison with man's salvation, and that it may 
oommanioate all its fhlness of Joy and unspeakable delight to every sonl 
it has created. It is thus that " God ooipmendeth His Love toward us, in 
that while we were yet sinners Christ died for as," Bom.v.8. Andnotonly 
so, but " we also Joy in God through oar Lord Jxsus Chbibt, by whom 
WB have now received the atonement," VMr. II. It ie thus seen that it is 
WB who received the atonement, not God. as is commonly soppoeed. It is 
man who went astray, became wicked, and thus became an enemy and 
needed reconciliation, at-one-ment, or being brought at>one or in agree* 
ment with his Maker. And this that Infinite Love that never slambers 
nor sleeps has been incessantly endeavouring to do ever since man 
declined from goodness, for it followed him step by step in his downward 
career, until at the very moment when hell waa about to claim him for 
her own, the great Jbhovah assumed the Humanity, thus supplying the 
last link of the golden chain which was thenceforward to anite God 
more closely to Bis erring children, and enable Him to become their 
Saviour. In this Humanity He encountered the powers of hell, and 
executed a judgment in the spiritual world, on those infernal hosts who 
were infesting and obsessing mankind, the indwelling Divinity sustaining 
the Humanity, and enabling it to Overcome in the midst of combats, 
temptations and sufi^rings so dreadfUl that it is impossible tbr tne mind 
of man to conceive of them, among the last being the temptations In the 

f;arden, and on the cross. Many of these comlmts are dttoribed in the 
nternal sense of the word in the following, and many other places which 
cannot be mentioned here by reason of their abundance : Ps. xvlii . Jucii., 
xxxv., zl. 1 2, V. 1, 6. Ixlx., cil. il, 1., cxxx., 1, 2., Isa. liii., liz, IB* Id, 
Ixiii. 1. 6., Ixiv. 1, 18., Mai, iv., 1, 8., Matt.iy. 1, ,10 zxri. 88, 44, MarF 18, 
Luke xxli., 42, 44, John xiv. 80, xvi. 88. In these passages the 
temptations, combats, and victories referred to are described in a Divine 
manner by mere correspondences, each possesaing an internal or spiritual 
meaning. These are some of the ways in which the " kiniteese and love 
of God our Saviour toward man appeared," Titus ill. 4, " This is the true 
God and eternal lifb," 1 John v. 20, and the Beneflcen' Being whose 
kindness we are exhorted to imitate, " by forgiving one ai..other even as 
God in Christ hath forgiven us." Ephas. iv. 82, This is the right truulation 
of the passage. In the English Bible it reads, " even as GoD for Ghrist's 
sake hath forgiven you," but this sense is unseriptural, and does not 
exist in the original. The prevalent custom of asking mercies firom God 
for Christ's sake is the result of ignorance regarding the true God in the 
mind of the worshipper, who in such a case is actually thinking of two or 
three Gods, although he does not say so with his lips. " Sr.ve us for Thy 
name's sake," ana <<Kedeem us for Thy mercies sake,' are common 
expressions in the Word. The great Jbhovah, whom we have seen to be 
none other than Christ Himself, says "I, even I, am He tliat blotteth 
out thy transgressions for mine otan sake," " Whatsoever ye ask in my 
name, I will do it," and thus it always is. 

The question will now be asked, if these statements are true, how does 
it come that wrath, anger, and vengeance are so frequently ascribed to 
God in the Word t The answer is that these expressions contain appear- 
ancet of truth, but not the real truth. Many thuiffs are thus e:q>re8fled iu 
the Word. It speaks of the rising of the sun ana the goipg down of the 
same, because it appears to do so. It tells us to pluck out our right ey«i 



It! 






\-%. 



99 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS QUIDK. 



f 



tnd out ofTonr right hand, Ifthoy offbnd ut. It tello us to take no thought 
for our lite, what wo hUbH eat, or what we shall drink, or for our body, 
what we shall put on. Does any man In his senses act thus f It tells uh 
that it is almost impossible Tur a rich man to enter heaven. It tells uh 
that Christ came not into the world to promote peace on the earth, but 
rather division, when norertheless Ho is the Prince of Peace. It tolls us 
that uulesK a man hates his father, and mother, and wife and cliildren, 
and brothers, and sisters, yea and his own life also, he cannot be Christ'd 
diooiple. Every one knows that these cxproHHious are not to be under* 
stood literally, and so it Is in the case of anger, wrath, and vengeance 
when such qualities are ascribed to God, but it is most true that to tho 
wicked he appears to be invested with such attributes. The children of 
Israel are doAcritjed as an evil and perverse generation who did always err 
in their heart, and kuew not the ways of Jkhovah, Pa. xcv. 10. Their 
vino is dcHcribcd as the "vine of Sodom and of the fields of Gomorrah: 
their grapes are grapes of gall and their clui<tor8 are bitter; their wine is 
ttie poiHon of dragons, and tho cruel vonom of asps," Dout. xxxii. 82 33. 
By the^e correspondences is described a mo!<t intense doffreo of wicked- 
ness, IS pertaining to tho interiors of thatneopie. Weilna incouseuuenco 
of tliis. that at tlio giving of tho Law on Mount Sluai, ttiat " the glory ol^ 
Jehovah was like devouring dro in the eyes of the children of Israel," 
Ex. xxiv. 17. On the other hand, when Moses and Aaron, Nadab and 
Abihu and seventy of the elders of Israel (seventy, as well.an seven, in tlio 
Word, ane numbers which are expressive of holiness, or what is good or 
sacred), ascended into the mountain, "they saw the God of Israel; and 
tliere was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of a sapphire stone, and 
as it were the body of heaven in clearness," ver. 10. Now mark the 
contrast, tho great Jehovah was seen under these various aspects 
altogether according to the state of the difl'erent spectators. It was only 
the " wicked and slothful servant," who possessed the "evil eye" by 
which he perceived liis Lord to be "a hard man, reaping where he had 
not sown, and gathering where he had not strewed," Matt. xxv. 24. 
From this cause proceeds the cry of the wicked to the mountains and 
rocks, ' Fall on us, and hide us ft-om the face of Him that eitteth on the 
throne, and from the wrath of tho Lamb," Kev. vi. 16. The sole cause of 
hii) dreadful appearance to them, lay in themselves, not in God, thus con- 
flrmtiig the Jjivine words, " With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself 
merciful; witii an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright; with the 

fiure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the ft-oward thou wilt shew 
hyself froward," Ps. xviii. 21 26. Thus, when the Word declares that 
the Lord is gracious, and full of compassion, slow to anger and of great 
mercy, and says further, "Fury ie not in me," it expresses a realtfnih, 
but when in tbe letter of the Word, wrath and anger are ascribed to God, 
only involves an apparent truth, for tho internal sense of the Word 
taaobes, and tho regenerated heart of every child of God will tch him, 
that the " Lord is good, that His mercy is everlasting, and that his truth 
eudureth to all generations." It is most tru? in every case thwt It is " cvi< 
which slays the wicked," for the Divine Love most intensely desires to 
elevate all to heaven, ancl would do so in every case, if man would on v 
make use of that free will with which it has endowed liim; to choose life 
and goodness, (for man's willing co-operation in th^scuse is indispensable), 
and thus suffer himself to be led by the Lord into heaven. The powers of 
evil are continually pressing for admission *nto man^ desiring nothing 
more than to destroy him soul and body, and arc continually restrainea 
from accomplishing their Infernal worif by nothing less than infinite 
power, but when infinite wisdom, or tho D vice oroi^ldcnce, perceives 
that the removal of the wicked is necessary for the preservation of t!io 
good, the law of permission can no longer' be vnthhe>a, aco evi3 agents 
perform tho evil work, and th?3 actuauy appeare to be aa if dcte by tne 
Lord, and i.H so expressed in the Word. •• Ho slew fami/ns kings, for His 
mercy endureth for ever," "He sent evil angeis among them/' and so 
on. Many other things are described in Jie word according to appear- 
ances, such for instance as the Lopd repenting, being grieved at the 
heart, &c., the internal sense of these expressions being very differeut 
I'roiii what appears in the icttor, 






We will 
Blkhhkd J 
ought to 
doing tliiti 
when wo«a 
Apostles on 
itedeomer I 
the right h 
Humanity 
given unto . 
of tho Godl 
After the 
worshlpijpd 
f^irther that 
thou art Go 
that in them 
saying, Lou 
Concernin 
[by whomar 
that sat on tl 
and cast theii 
receive glory 
for thy pleas 
ver. 10 recon 
ing the hostt 
gave utteranc 
they sung a n 
0])en the seals 
by Thy blood 
and hast madi 
the earth." ' 
and gloriflcati 
Saviour, thus 
in the song w) 
tied : as an act 
art worthy to 
the Redeemer ] 
by Thy blood,' 
our God kings 
signified, (hat 
in love from di 
will be in His 
God of heaven 
ihat liveth for ( 
the Lord alom 
Hs Humanity, 
and Saviour, w 
this it is recon 
of thousands, i 
Lamb that was 
strength, and 1 
glorification fro 
to the Lord's 
divine good, di' 
iu heaven, and 
and all that ai 
glory, and pow 
the Lamb for e\ 
and glorificatioi 
from eternity ai 
and the church 
Irora Him in tl 
beheld, and lo 
nations, and tri 
I^AMB, clothed 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZAN8' GUIDE. 






23 



eno thoucht 
or our body, 

f It tolls UH 

I. It tolls tlH 
le earth, but 
). It telU UH 
nd cbildren, 
)t bo Chrisfu 
to bo undor- 
d vengeanco 
e that lo tho 
B children of 
id alwavH err 
V. 10. Their 
f Gomorrah ; 
their wlno is 
xxxli. 32 33. 
^ of wicked- 
1 couseuuencfl 
" tho fffory of 
an of Israel," 
1, Nadab and 
i seven, in tho 
lat is good or 
f Israel ; and 
iro stone, and 
ow mark the 
iriouB aspects 
. It was only 
evil eye" by 
whore he had 
[att. XXV. 24. 
lountains and 
oitteth on the 
_ sole causo of 
Ijod, thus con- 
shew thysol*. 
|ght; with the 
ou wilt shew 
declares that 
and of great 
_a reaZ t»*uth, 
iribed 1o God, 
of the Word 
will tell him, 
^hat his trutli 
[hat It Is " evix 
leiy desires to 
in woald on. v 
to choose life 
dispensable), 
Jhe powers o? 
iring nothing 
.lly restrained 
than inHnite 
ce, perceives 
'ation of the 
c evil ascents 
jf dciiC by tne 
ings, for His 
om/- and so 
|ng to appear- 
•ieved at the 
'ery differeut 



We will now proceed to conclude tho gratofhl task of showftig that cne 
Blkbhki) Jkscs in tho only Only Trck ObJ«>ct of worship, and as such, 
ought to bo recognizM in the Church, and by every hnraan Ixiing. In 
doing tliU we do not anticipate any objo<-.tionH fVom profesHod Christians, 
when wo flay that Itwuuldno quite safe to emulate tho oxamplo of the 
ApoHtles ou earth and that of tno angels In heaven. After our BlPHsed 
Itedeemer had asoeiided up on high, it is written, that he rat down " on 
the right hand of God." By this is signitiod, tlmt Ho even as to His 
Humanity took pus-tt'ssion of Divine Omuipotunue, having " all power 
given unto Him lu heaven and in earth," for in Him dwelt all the fulness 
of the Godhead bodily. Col. li. 9. , 

After the axcoQslon, It is written concerning the disciples, "And they 
worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy." We road 
Airther that " they lifted up their voice with one accord and said, Lord 
thou art Goo, which hast made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all 
that in them is," Acts iv.24. And Stephen died, " calling upon God, and 
saying. Lord Jehuh receive my spirit,'' Acts vil. 69. 

Concerning worship in heaven, we read that " tho four and twenty elders 
[by whomare signified tho superior angelic powers], fell down before Him 
that sat on the throne and worshippedT Him that liveth for ever and ever, 
and cast their crowns beforethe throne saylnjf. Thou art worth v O Lord to 
receive glory and honour and power; for thon hast created all things and 
for thy pleasure they are and were created," Rev iv. 10, 11. Chapter v. 
vor. 10 records that " the four boasts and four &v twenty elders, [sienify- 
ing the hosts in the siiperior heavens], fell doh a before the Lamb, and 
gave utterance to the sublime glorification recorded In ver. 9. 10. " And 
they 6ung a new sonz, saying. Thou art worthy to take the Book and to 
open the seals thereof; for Thou wast slain, and. hast redeemed us to God 
by Thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation ; 
and hast made us unto oar God kings and priests, and we shall reign on 
the earth." " And they sung a new song," eignifiea an acknowledgment 
and glorification of tho Lord, that He alone is the Judge, Redeemer and 
Suvlour, thus the God of heaven and earth. These things are contained 
in the song which they mna, and the things they contain are also signi- 
fied: as an acknowledgment that the Lord is the Judge in this: <'Tnou 
art worthy to take the Book and to open the seals thereof." That He is 
the Redeemer in this, " For Thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God 
by Thy blood," that He is the Saviour in this, " Thou hast made us unto 
our God kings and prie.*t8, and wo shall reign on the earth," by which is 
signified, Ihat ftova. the Lord they are in wisdom f^-om divine truths, and 
in lovo from divine good, for ail such are spiritual kings and priests, and 
will be in His kingdom, He in them, and they in Him: that He is the 
God of heaven ana earth, in this : " They fell down and worshipped Him 
^hat liveth for ever and ever," see ver. 14. Since the acknowledgement of 
the Lord alone as the God of heaven and earth, and of the Divinity of 
H>s Humanity, and that in no other way could He be called a Redeemer 
and Saviour, was not before in the Church, it is called anew song. After 
this it is recorded that ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands 
of thousands, were heard saying, with a loud voice, " Worthy is the 
Lomb that was slain, to receive power; and riches, and wisdom, and 
strength, and honour and glory, and blessing," denoting confession and 
glorification from the heart, by the angels of the inferior heavens, that 
to the Lord's Divine Humanity belong Omnipotence, Omniscience, 
divine good, divine truth, and all felicity, " And every creature which is 
in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, 
and all that are in them heard I saying, ' Blessing, and honour, and 
glory, and power, be unto Him who sitfeth upon the throne, and unto 
the Lamb for ever and ever," ver. 18. By which is signified, confiBssion 
and glorification by the angels of the lowest heavens, that in the Lord 
from eternity and thence in His Divine Humanity, is the all of heaven 
and the church, divine good, and divine truth, and divine power, and 
Irora Him in those who are in heaven and the church, " After this I 
beheld, and lo a great multitude which no man coifld number, of all 
nations, and tribes, and tongues, stood before the throne and before the 
I^AiKB, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands ; and ^rie^ 



\i i.i 



\^,il 



li 

t I 






I 



ii ;■; 






II '■ 



( , ,; ■' '■ 



24 



▲PPXMI^IX .70 THX.ABtlZANSLQraDE. 



. ' -^ 



wiitd • lott4 TOlea, Mylpg, " B^jiyftttoii to our Ooi> thit alttiith upon t)ie 
throDfi, *nd to tli3 L^XV-" w»p. vU. 9, 10. To oiy with a loud roioe 8ig< 
Qlfies »n M(iiQ«:i»d<Ti9cnt from the hewri thst tljie Lokd is their 3«Tioar. 
" SalvaMan to opr v. m thai «itteth npop t^ throne, and to the Lamb," 
sigoiAes that the I^sv ^ 0«^v»tion itMif, and that the ^alvition of all is 
froBR .fiUfUi thua tiiiut He Is tMv Padeemer $n4 Savioor. Bf Him that 
•ittein wpon tne throiae, .a>!^ Hm LaXr Is meant the I^oso alone; hy 
Biia tMit Bitteth r.con the ibfohe His Divinity tron whieh He came 
fortj^.; unfl ter ^ '^ f^s," mIb I)lVue Humanity. Hiat one Beinff is 
meant, may 6o seen oonfirmed hy Velr. 17, Where the X^amb is deeoribed as 
heiiMtln the fnM«<of ^ ihrp^e. " 4cnd f«ll the angels stood roundabout 
the tbrone, and ah«nt tn0 elOeis and tjbe fbttr pewti, and fbll doifrn before 
Gov m Jhelr faoes and worthliwed Opo, Haying, Amen, blessing and 

Slofy and wi|doiu« aw tbanlwglying, r!>nd honour, and power, and might, 
e ustp owe lOxnr for ever and eyw, Ainen," ver. ll, 12. By tbis ipreat 
company u signi/^ed, all ^ the nhfoerdal heaven; " An4 leu before the 
throne ontheir.Av es and wQr<i|ll4ppe<I Goi>," sjcnifles, the hnttiiliaMon of 
i^ehr heart, HAd.^nnnhumiliaison.adorlitlon w the Loan. "Bleesing. 
and tfl<Mry, ai' 1 w;isdom. and tbtoa^iving." etentflee the divine foiritual 
tbinis oirthe ItOimi "AndlybnpurandTOwer and night," stgnffles the 
divine oeleMnal tMiigs Pi tJM Xobp; "Be unto our wp tot ever antf 
«ver,"4igiuflee these thhogs in the Jx)9i>, and frQipL wfi Lobd to eternity 
" And.thew w^re .gcieat voiQiiis in b^^avem, saying. The kingdoms of the 
Work! wne becoJuethe klngdoips of our Lottn aba of Hit Christ, uid He 
ahaU reign ibr ever f^4 evor," JKev. xi. 15, signi4es, celebration py the 
<»ngel9, ^because heaven and the Cbujrob toe become the Ixi^s'b h^ tney 
iwere Ircon. %e beginnuwi, and beeafse they are now in suhleotion al^ to 
Hie OHvine ^WAfwHy, consequently tibat now, both as to His Humanity 
and Divinity, the t/>Ki will reign over heaven and tbo (mturoh to eter- 
nity. " And the four and twenty elders, that sat befbre God, on their 
tbrcHiM, itiki pn their ffn^ea, and wor8hii4>ed God," ver. 16, sigbiites an 
aoknowledsRifint by all the ai^Is of heaven, tbat the Jx>sd Is tbb Gon 
of heaven and earth, and supreme adoration: laying, "We give thee 
tbMilis, O JxntD God Auciauj?, who art, who wast, and wno art to 

Eome/' ver. It. slgGlfle9 a oonlbuipn and glorification by the angels of 
. eav«m. that it is uie hono who Is, who has lifiB and power from Himself, 
and wno rules all things, because He alone is eternal and Infinite; 
" beeawse thou hast taken thy oreat power and haSt reigned," ver. 17, 
signifiee tlie new hMven and the new Church where they acknowledge 
Hhu to be the only Gop. " And theysing the song Of SfLoses, the servant 
of God. and the song of the Xiamb," jEtev. xv. 8, ^, signifies, a confession 

Smnded in oharity, and in a life according to the commandments of the 
w, which is the deoalpgue, ardin a beUei in the Divinity oftbeLonn's 
Humanity; spying, " Great and marvellous are Thy works, I<o&d God 
AnjucMEry," ngnwes that all things in the world, iu heaven, and in the 
Church w«D created and made by the Load, from divine love by Divine 
Wisdom. " Just and true are Thy wi^s. Thou King of saints," signifies, 
that all things which proceed from Him are Just and true, because He is 
divine good and divine ^th in Jiieaveh and in the Church; " Who ehali 
aotfear tbee, O Lobd, and glorify thy name," signtfles, that He alone is 
JO be loved and worshiDped: " For Thou only art holy," signifies that 
He is the Word, the truth and the lllu ■i.don. " For all nations shall 
^ome and worship before thoe," signifiet>, koat all who are in the good of 
love and charity, will acknowledfce the Lord to be the only God. " For 




signifies, i^ux (from the Lokd ioto heaven and consequent unanimity 
.;>f the angels, that all who are in the truths of faith and goods of love 
«bould worship the jU>bd as the only God of heaven. " Both 6mall and I 
erent," eigQifiTes, those who in a greater or lesser degree worsbip the 
Lord from the truths of fbith and goods of love. " And I heard as it 
weie the voioe of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, 
and as the voice of many thunders, saying. Alleluia! for the Lokd God 
OatWiPOTkwT relgneth,'^ ver. 0, signffiea, the Jojr of the an|;ela of tlw I 



rith aloud TOlO«8if- 

tu> is their S»Tlour, 
and to tiie Lahb ," 
le juavitlon of all is 
outT By Him that 
*eI/)Bb Iflone; by 
om wnieh He came 
. That one Belnff is 
:,jLjiB is deeoribeo as 
als stood round about 
and fell doifWibeipre 
Amen. WeMlnjs and 
id power, »nd mignt, 

' Anklet Ijetow the 

8, the Utt»*™«*<5L°' 
I LORD. "W«2*5«j 
9 the divine tolrita^ 

mkht," Bigiffiee the 
n%o^ ibt erer mrf 
heJx)BDtoeter5iSr 

f in subjection |il«o to 
astoflisHumauHy 
idtho^urohtoeter- 
befbre God ,on their 
'ver. 16, signllles an 
the Jx)aD tethbGoD 
tog, "We give thee 
raSt, uud who art to 
ion by the angels of 
power from lOmseif, 
jternal and infinite; 
At reigned," ver. 17. 
ire they acknowledge 
OfWLoses, theservant 
ignifles. a confession 
ommaadmentg of the 
1vinltyoftheLoB.i>'B 

y works, liOaD Qop 
■^^.heaven,andlnthe 
ivine love by Divine 

of saints," 8igi^fl«. 
. true, because He is 
ihuroU: "VTho BhaU 
le8,tbat He alone 18 
1, holy," signifies that 
For all nations shall 
,0 are In the good of 
le only GOD. "For 
it the truths of^the 
\t the throne, saying, 
r aim," Bev. xlx. Om 
inseoiient unanimity 
,h and goods of Iota 
"Both^mall and 
degree worship the 
«' And 1 heard as u 
ice of many waters, 
',1 for the LORD GOD 

t the anfela of t}>« 



kP^ttXpt^ TO 1lWrW!VtAN9^ 0CmL. 



» 



order to banish all ddubt as to who If maint byjlit~tirm'" Qodt'\ 
tese jpaMMea, we nowwetethe teetlmAQF of the Blimsd JB0V9'iji^ 

aud. 6, 7: "And Hm «ald uMp mfi Xt ifjone,^' siflniflei tUk 1% 6« 
ne truth, "tarn Alfiha mtd OmcM, the B«glaiiln« and the S«d,". 



lowest hearen. of theaageU 9f ttie middle beavoiKUd of the leuelf at 
the highest heaven; because the %onn atooe reigns in the Cburioh wSioh 
id now about to come, stg^tfled by the BBide the JLi^'4 wii», ot^ttavi 
new Jerusalem mentlonea in ver. 7. $» and ehap^ ud. 2. « 

In order to banish all ddubt as to who If oMMiat by Jhe'tfrm'" God^" 
in these ' — --i-it. i__i. i... ^ _ 

Bwn« _ , _^ . _^_ __ _,„ „ , _,, 

signtfles, that t|ie Lobd u the Gop of imifm waA «avt^> and that ad 
things in the heayen Mid earth wefe mude by Him, uid are-fov<eim*d by, 
Bis Divine Providehoe and done aeooiding, loit; « FwUlgi^ unto^ hfin 
that is athirst of tbefounteln of the Water of life fteebr," sigidieK that U^^ 
those who desire truths from any si^titma nse» the sLmo wiU |dvefrem 
Himself through the Word, " He t^toveraometh shattinhevitiOl ^iags^ 
and I WILL B» BIS God, and he shall he iny son/' sffsMee, Qiat j^ wAa 
overcome evil in tbemseiyee, thatis, tht» ieyil, or the love of self and the 
world, and do not yield or irink in tenittatlene, irBI go to heaven, and, 
there live in the Lobd and the loiii^ in themi ThU ttttie'teetlmony of 
Jssua. Let it be supplemented by the testimonir oi the anget: '' Fear 
not; for behold I br^gyoti good tldlngi of great Joy, which shall be to 
all people. For unto you Is bom this d# in toe otty <wPai4d, ^A^vmtL, 
which Is G9K<^i> THV LoBD," Iioke li< 10, 11. That our Blefsed iiQito 
received divine honours and worship when onearOi mas! he seen, Ifatt^ im, 
18, xiv. 88, xy. 28, xxvUi. », Marie 1, 40» ▼. 38, tii: 36, » 17, I^ke acvii, 16. 

It ia Ino.wttflrom the'scienoe of oenrespoadenoee that such meairtBga 
are actually involved in the aboye mentioned passages of Sw^ptnre, yea,' 
and much more, for eaohexpresnon betog fh>m a DIviM' origin embodiee 
within itself infinitely more than oumi^ot angel can ever ooaipr«l)^dv' 
But we have seen enough to eonvince ue that the iiOBD is ii^ v»iy, deed . 
the supreme God of heaven and earth, in whom Is'the IPivtae I^idni^ ot 
Father, Son uid Holy Spirit, inf! Now the Lobd is that^ Spirit, md wfa^«' 
the Spirit of the Lo]U> is, there' is liber^," % €k>r: m, vT. Go then* myl 
friend, to this Saviour GOD, who once for your sate'beMiae! " a iMut of 
sorrows and aequaintedwithipriel^" qerve Aim byobfiruigHiftoemfQimd- 
isentsy di*w near to H,im at m times with humiU^y, leve^ and flitth 
unfeigned, for He will have meroy, aiul you will '' hnar a wond behind 
you, saying, Thi» U the way, walk ye in it/* IssiVxxx. 81. Genfldein 
Bim during eveiy trial and under every diffleidty, and you wUl indeed- 
find that the et«nial God Is thy reftage. and that undem««Ui thee is the 
everlasting anns. In every weak and doubtfM state: He will impart 
strength by laying " His rinit h^d upon yon,'saying. Fear not> I ain th,e 
First and the Last," BevXlT: Let all act thus and the time wUl bo 
present ooncemlng which it is written:' "And the Lobd shall .ho IMng 
over all the efui:h; In.that day.tfaere shaiI..be.one.LoBi> and His nam» 
Onk," Zee. xiv. 9. .. . . 

Such is the Doctrine of the LoBD'as tauf^inT the Word,' and sueh was 
the doctrine held by the aposties and the primitive Christian Church (as 
may be seen by consulting the writings of the early Bathers), until the 
time of the council, convened at Nice, in Bithynia, by oommaad of the 
Emperor Constantine, A.D. 326. This was called fw the purpose of 
repressing the Arian heresy, and a creed, the first that ewep reoogplsed 
theexlstence of three ditHnet Ptraom In the Trinity, was drawn iq> by 
Hosius of Corduba, at the inetance of this council, and henee wae called 
the Nlcene Creed. What is called the Athanaslan Creed cane out abioui 
a century later, but it is now known that Athanaslus never composed it. 
The assertions and claims of this last mentioned decument are really 
asvoundlng, and none can be Ignorant of the powerful efforts put forth In 
England by all classes of the people, amonc them the very highest 
dignitartee of the English Ghuron, to exclude it flrom the liturn. 

From the doctrine of Three Persons in the Godhead ae tavght bgr these 
creeds, flow many other doctrines equally inimical to truth, as for 
instance, that God the Father imputes lAie merit and righteoamess of Hls' 
Son to those who believe that be died fSor them, and that Christ havins. 
obeyed the law in our room and stead, we «re thereby exempted from all 






26 



At>PENDIX TO THE AilTlZANS* ombl!; 



obligation to obey it except as an outward rale of life, thns nullifying and 
malung of none effect the spirituality of those commandments of Mrhicb 
it is saul, that " if a man do, he shall live in them," Levit. xviii. 6. 

It is certainly true that man has, and can have, no goodness or rightt'ons- 
neas but what emanates fk-oni the Loud alone, firom which apround Ka is 
called " Jkhovah oub Bighteousness," Jer. xxxiii. 16. It is also true 
that the Lord's method of imparting this righteousness involves continual 
wurfkre against evils as sins, on the part or man, for goodness can only 
enter as evils are expelled, but this is a very difibreut thing from the 
imputation of the Lord's merit and righteousness, which is divine, 
inmiite, and eternal, for it is no more possible to ascribe, impute, or adjoin, 
what la divine, infinite andetetnri to any human being, than itis to ciotho 
him with the attributes of Omnipotence, and empower him to create a 
universe. It would be liko plunging him into a furnace heated sevenfold, 
which would consume him in a moment. The righteous Lord can never 
recognize any righteousness in a man which has not been implanted in 
his life. Christ says, that He " shdll reward every man according' to his 
works," Matt. xvi. 27, Rev. ii. 28, xx. 12, 13, xxli. 12. It is never said 
according to his belief, but according to his works. " And it shall be our 
righteousness if we observe to do all these commandments before J KiaovA h 
our God, as He hath commanded us," Deut. ri. 26. "I command thee 
this day^ love Jehovab thy God, and to keep His commandments and 
His statutes and His Judgments, that thou mayest live," Deut. xxx. 16. 
" Ye shall command your children to observe to do all the words of this 
law. For it is not a vain thing for you, because it is vour life," chap. 
xxxii. 46, 47. C!oncerning the Violation of His law it is written, " O that 
they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their 
latter end," ver. 29. And in Isaiah: "O that thou hadst hearkened to 
my commandments, then had thv peace been as a river, and thy righteous- 
ness as the waves of the sea," onap. xlvili. 18, " I will rncorapense them 
according to their deedR, and according to the works of their own hand," 
Jer. XXV. 14. "Thine eyes are open upon all the ways of the children of 
men, to give to every one according to his ways, and according to the 
fruit of his doings," xxxii. 19, " He hath shewed thee, O man, what is 
good; and what dotti Jbhovah require of thee but to do justly, to love 
mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God," Micah vi. 8, " According to 
onr ways and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us," Zech. 1, 
6, " Every one who heareth these savings of mine and doeth tliem. I will 
liken him unto a wise man who built bis house upon a rock— and every 
one who heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall be 
likened unto a foolish man who built his house upon the sand," Matt. vii. 
24, 26, '• And why call ve me Lord, Lord, and clo not the things which I 
say," Luke vi. 48, " Tney that have done good shall come forth to the 
resurrection of life," John v. 29, " If ye know these things, happy are ye 
if ye do them," John xiii. 17, " Herein is my Father glorilied, that ye 
bear much t^uit," John xv. 8, " If ye keep my commandments ye shall 
abide in my love," v. 10, " Ye are my friends if yo do whatsoever 1 
command you," v. 14. "He that hath my comm^indments, and keepeth 
them, he it is that loveth me," xiv. 21, " Circumcision is nothing and un< 
oircumsion is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God," 
1 Cor. vii. 19, " For this is the love of God that we keep His command- 
ments, and His commandments are not grievous," 1 John v. 3, " Yo see 
then how by works a man is justified and not by faith only," James ii. 
24. When it is said " that a man is justified by faith, without the deeds of 
the law," Rom. iii. 28, we are to undevstand this passage as having solo 
reference to the law of outward circumcision and external washings and 
pnrifyings, which being merely representative rites, were abolished by the 
coming of Christ, see v. 80, Acta xvi. 1-24. la what was written to the 
seven churches in Asia (by whom is represented the Church of Christ as 
to every possible state), the Searcher of hearts states in etch and every 
case, " I know thy works," and rewards are proraised to those who over- 
come evils in themselves, or, what ib the same, obey the oommandmentj. 
These rewards are described in a figurative manner by corre^^o.iJouCes, 
which in the internal (^ense are significative of every vav^ety o.' he*venly 
joy, and supreme felicity. • > 



JSvei 

incliut 

inclini 

inherit 

them. 

nal age 

desires 

begins. 

self [an 

and ah 

aconrse 

the con 

not rest 

that evi 

the exti 

fear, or 

doing j 

say that 

confess i 

evils, to 

guilty, t 

God, it < 

to desist 

heart to 

anew lii 

As to 

the natt 

able Bed 

away th( 

mouth." 

at the vei 

ties, f ncli 

from a lo 

Saviour I 

hath bori 

stricken, i 

transgress 

Our peact 

Lord hat 

ditary evil 

through 

thousand 

these evil 

vanquishe 

Divinity. 

this world 

overcome 

"To him t 

as I also c 

In no 

Humanity 

tual enem 

ing fire, ui 

By tempta 

principalH 

His Huma 

Saviour to 

every chile 

follow his . 

It may u 

coutaiuu a 

union of g 

is the case 

be necessai 

What man: 



as nullifying and 
dmenta of which 
t. xviii. 6. 
ness or righteons- 
oh flnround Ka is 
6. It is also true 
a^olves continual 
}odiiess can only 
; thing from the 
vrhioh is divine, 
Impute, or adjoin, 
:haa itia to clothe 
■ him to create a 
heated sevenfold. 
I Lord can never 
lecn implanted in 
according' to his 
It is never said 
nd it shall be our 
8 before J uhov a h 
I command thee 
umandments and 
," Deut. XXX. 16. 
the words of this 
your life," chap, 
written, " O that 
uld consider their 
adst hearkened to 
andthyrighteouu- 
r^compense them 
their own hand," 
Ljf the children of 
according to the 
j. O man, what is 
do justly, to love 
(, •' According to 
vith us," Zech. 1, 
oeth them, I will 
, rock— and every 
em not, shall be 
sand," Matt. vii. 
Ve things which I 
[ome forth to the 
{8, happy are ye 
.oriUed, that ye 
dments ye shall 

whatsoever I 
[nts, and keepeth 

nothing and un- 
ments of God," 
) His command- 
in V. 3, "Ye see 
inly," James ii. 
lout the deeds of 

1 as having solo 
j\ washings and 
labolished by the 
la written to the 
mh of Christ as 
I e ich and every 
Ithoso who over- 

jommari dments. 

orre^po-u'o^ces, 

lety o.:" heavenly 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



2f 



ISverr man is bom into the world with evil propensities and depraved 
inclinations, derived from a lonj; line of ancestors. These propensities and 
inclinations, are not imputed to man as sins, because they hare been 
inherited through heredit iry transmission, and thus he cannot prevent 
them. But these depraved affections are the avenues through which infer* 
nal agencies flow in as a flood and tempt man by the insemination of evil 
desires and wicked thoughts, and it is just here where man's responsibility 
begins. If he, by virtue of the firee will given him by Otod, compels him- 
self [and in this compulsion there exists the highest flreedom], to resist 
and abhor these evil desires and thoughts, and turns from them as 
accursed and abominable, and does that which is just and right, he obeys 
the commandments, and saves his soul. If, on tne other hand,' he does 
not restrain himself, but yields to temptation, if in his heart he thinks 
that evil is permissible, even though he does not actually carry it out to 
the extreme of actual perpetration, for want of opportunitv, or through 
fear, or other causes, in this case he makes it his own by loving it, and 
doing it whenever he can, and thus disobeys the commandments which 
say that evils are not to be done. " He who is willing to be saved, must 
confess his sm8 and do the work qf repentance. To coiifeaa sins is to know 
evils, to see them in himself, to acknowledge them, to make himself 
guilty, to condemn himself on account of them; when this is done before 
God, it constitutes the confession of sins. Todo the work of repentance is 
to desist from sins, when he has ihus confessed them,and from an humble 
heart to make supplication concerning remission, and it is fUrther to lead 
anew life according to the precepts of faith." 

As to what has been alleged in the above statements concerning 
the nature of every man born into the world, even our ador- 
able Bedeemer was no exception. He, '' the Lamb of God which taketh 
away the sin of the world," did no sin, neither was guile found in His 
mouth." But for the sake of man's salvation, he assumed the Humanity, 
at the very lowest and darkest hour of its existence, Mrith all its inflrmi- 
ties, inclinations to evil, and liability to temptation and suffering, derived 
from a long line of ancestry, through Mary. In no other way could the 
Saviour be said to bear the sins of mankind, as it is written, " Surely He 
hath borne our grie&, and carried our sorrows ; yet we did esteem him 
stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our 
transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of 
bur peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed, — and the 
Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all,*^' Isa. liii. 5, ?. These here- 
ditary evils in the ibrm of the love of self and the world, were the channels 
through which the powers of darkness assaulted Him in temptations a 
thousand times more grievous than any man could possibly sustain, and 
these evils, together with the whole infernal crew, i]e overcame and 
vanquished by means of His own proper power, through the indwelling 
Divinity. From thib ground He said to His disciples: 'The prince of 
this world cometh, and hath nothing in me," Be of good cheer, I have 
overcome the world," " I beheld Satan, as lightning, fall from heaven," 
"To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me on my throne, even 
as I also overcame," Rev. iii. 21. 

In no other way could he become a Saviour than by assuming the 
Humanity, and thus coming nearer the same plane as that of the spiri- 
tual enemies of mankind, tor in His absolute Divinity, God is a consum- 
ing fire, unapproachable by any angel, much less by an infernal spirit. 
Bjr temptations, sufTerings and continual victories over evil. He overcame 
principaljt.'es and powers, triumphing over them on His cross, glorified 
His Humanity and made it Divine, and is now exalted a Prince and a 
Saviour to give repentance and remission of sins. In His Divine example, 
every child of God may see that his duty is plain to take up bis cross and 
follow his Blessed Lord in the regeneration. 

It may now be visible to all who are willing to see, that the scripture 
contains a spiritual as well as a natural sense, and that it is pervaded bv a 
union of good and truth, or love and wisdom, the instances in which this 
is the case being so numerous chat in order to adduce ttiem all, it would 
be necessary to transcribe the entire Word. It may be further seen in 
what manner the science of correspondences serves to unfold the spiritual 






m 

1 1, ^i- 



■M 



:rm\r 



;!i:'i 



m 



A^I^ENDIX TO itHE ARTIZANB^ OtTlD^; 



Mnie of the Word, bat groat dlfflonlty hw beeii Mt flrom wmt of space id 
Illustrate each topic by parallel passaseB from the Saored wrltin|(a. and I 
am moat reluctantly compelled to omit the notice of thonsandf* «f f^^hftr 
matters which would be most highly instrnctiye, fbr there is ncth <g 
mentioned In the Scriptures, not even the smallest Jot or tit^>e, bat w it 
is pregnant with dirinv wisdom^ akid thlA by reason of the s ^luu . . utli, 
that in the inmost of the Wosd, the Lotai aloke is. Eren . < 'he hldtori- 
oahi of the Word, such as l^e Journ^s of the Isra^tes, we have a pnrfect 
oonnterpart of the Journey of every Christian from the Egypt of a natural 
state, to his trinmphant entry into the heavenly Canaan, together with 
the wh'^e arcana of his re "neration, all written by the finger of God, and 
described by mere corresp n. fences. The first chapters of Genesis, appar- 
ently descriptive ot the cn.^ ^on of the natural universe, Adam and Eve, 
the garden of Eden, the tree of lifis, and of the knowledge of good and evil, 
the serpent, Cain and J^\, the flood, Noah, and the other patriarchs, the 
ark, the tower of Bab^, etc., down to the end of the eleventh chapter of 
Graiesis, will be found, when interpreted by the science in question; to con- 
tain the most wondvrfui embodiment of divine truth ever unfolded to the 
world. This scienoe will enable us to hia-monize every apparent discrR- 
paincy in the letter of the Word, and understand all passages which are 
otherwise inexplicable, and is not such a study deserving of the attention 
of every ope, since in these latter days, the jlord God the Saviour has 
been most graciously pleased to disclose the knowledge of it, so that what 
has hitherro lain most deeply concealed is now made maoiflsst in the 
clearest l:ght, and the transtidndant importance of the disclosure is such 
that thiff is in very truth what is denoted by " the Son of Man coraibg in 
the clouds of heaven," which was to take place at the consummation of 
the cge, or oburoh, erroneously translated, "end of the world." These 
revelations and dlsolosnnes have been made through a man whoih the 
Lord raised up, prepared, instrudted, and filled with His spirit, So that he 
might reduce them to writing* B^d that thus they might be printed and 
prAerved'for the use of His churcii through succeeding generationsi. That 
man Was Emanuel Swedenborg, and these unfoldings of the spiritual 
sensiB cf the Word ire to be found in his theological writings, to which I 
would refer all who take delight in the study ot cne scriptures, for no lover 
of truth «aa fkil to be both delighted and astonished, at the ptOfhndity and 
variety of the immense mass of knowledge presented in relation to the 
spiritttal sense of the Word, heaven and hel!, and the life of man after 
death. The subjects so imperfectly treated in this brief sketch, and many 
thousands besides, will be found in thosie writings to be treated with the 
ihll measure of that elaborate justice which thev deserve. Evwy s^nt^ice 
seeinsto confirm and verity their author's claim that he was called and 
prepared tor this holy office bv the Lord Himself, for most assuredly no- 
thing short of supernatural illumination could enable any one to make 
such statements, and impart such knowledges as are contained in these 
books. The exalted pleasurd derived from the study of these writings is 
the sole reason for recommending them to tliecoilsideratiott of others, and 
I take much pleasure in appending the namei> of the dtflferent books, with a 
few collateral works, together with the addressesof responsible parties fh)m 
whom they may be procured. See list on last page. The theological 
writings would fill about thirty octavo v<dumes of 600 pages each, and his 
philosophical works, written anterior to his Illumination, would fill as much 
more, making about sti^oy volumes in all. It is deemed proper to state 
that the writer has no pecuniary interest in the sale of these books, the 

Sartics whose addresses are given on the last page having at this time, 
[arch 1^78, no intimation whatever, that any such notice as this is intend- 
ed ; ftartbermore, what has been adduced in this appendix hac been done 
fVom a love of the truth, and iVom no desire fbr emolument of any kind. 

The illustrious Swedenborg, who died March, 20, 1772, was a Swedish 
nobleman, held in high respect by the royal family of Sweden, and was 
certaialy one of the most extraordinary and learned men who eyer lived. 
The celebrated chemist Ber2ilius, says of Swedenborg's " Animal king- 
dom :" " 1 have been surprised to find how the mind of Swedenborg has 
preceded the present state of knowledge, writing his work at the time he 

did." The Rev. John Clowes of Manchester, England, writes as follows, 






h 
tl 



1 want of apace i6 
d writinga, and I 
[Oasandn «>f f^^het 
there ia octb g 
tr tlU'9, but w vt 
he B >mu .. ^th, 
ren. " 'he hlstori- 
we have a pnrfect 
Igypt of a natural 
m, together with 
tngerofGoD.aud 
>f tienesiSf appar- 
, Adam and Eve, 
of good and evil, 
er patriarohB, the 
erenth chapter of 
I qneetion; fo eon* 
it unfolded to the 
' apparent disorR* 
Bflsages whlc9i are 
g of the attention 
> the SaTlour has 
of it, BO that what 
e manlftBt in the 
diBcloBure is Buoh 
)f Man comibg in 
consummation of 
>e world." These 
a man whoih the 
s spirit, 00 that he 
lit be printed and 
Brenerationsi. Iliat 
i of tbe spiritual 
itings, to which I 
tures, for no lover 
he profbndity and 
In relation to the 
life of man after 
iketoh, amd many 
treated with the 
Every Reiktence 
[e was called and 
lost assuredly no- 
[any one to make 
intainedin these 
these writings is 
tn of others, and 
jnt books, with a 
isible parties from 
The theological 
[es each, and his 
ould fill as much 

E roper to state 
ese books, the 
Ing at this time, 
as this is intend- 
iz has been done 
iut of any kind. 
, was a Swedish 
weden, and was 
who ever lived. 
. « Animal king- 
ISwedenborg has 
•k at the time he 
rites as follows, 



.Appendix to the artizan's ouide. 



2d 



»' The author of this memoir cannot conclude his narrative wUhout oflfer-i 
Ing up to the Father of moroies his most devout and grateful acknowledge* 
ments, for the extraordinary privilege and inestimably blessing vouchsafed 
him in having been admitted to the knowledge and acknowtedgement oi 
the truth and importance of the doctrines unfolded by Swedenborg from 
the Word of Gop as the genuine doctrines of Christianity." This gentle- 
man translated Swedenborg's largest work, the " A-caiia Ccelesna," in 
ten octavo volumes, from the Latin into Ehglish. Professor Gorres o< 
Germany, writes as follows, " Throughout the entire career of his learned 
researches and activity, we every where discover the pious and religfous 
man, who in all his sayings ana doings, was intent upon good, '^ Dr. 
Gabriel A. Beyer, professor of Greek liferature in Gottenburg, in a long 
declaration respecting the doctrines taught by Swedenborg, delivered in 
obedience to the royal cominmd, Jan 2nd., 1772, concludes thus, " Ihave 
found in them nothing but what closely coincides with the words of the 
Lord Hitnse^, and that they shine with a light tnUy divine. " Gen. Chris- 
tian Tuxen, a personal acquaintance of Swedenborg's, and Commissioner 
of War under Tthe King of Denmark, states in a letter, "Formv part I 
thank our L^ hd the God of heaven, that I have been acquaintea with 
this great man and his writings ; I esteem this as the greatest blessing I 
ever experienced in this life." The Bev. Dr. Hartley, late Rector of Win- 
wick, Northamptonshire, England, the translator of Swedenborg's " Hea- 
ven and Hell," writes thus, " I have found him to be the good (flvine, the 
good man, the deep philosopher, the universal scholar, tiie polite gentle- 
man ; and I further believe that he had a high degree of the Spirit of God, 
and was commissioned by Him as an extraordinary messenger to the 
world." Let the enquirer after further evidence procure the " Documents 
concerning Swedenborg," compiled by Dr. Tafel and Professor Bush, and 
he will find a volume fllled with evidence similar to this. The " Statement 
of Reasons for embracing the Doctrines and Disclosures of. Emanuel 
Swedenborg," by Prof. Bush, will also prove of great interest. The " True 
Christian ReJieion" is a good work for beginners, beixig th,e last written by 
Sweaen'oorg. In it he says, "The particulars of&itb on man's pa^ are, 1. 
Tnat God is one. in whom there is a Divine Trinity, and that He is tho Lord 
God and Saviour Jesus Christ. 2. That savinig fa^th is to believe on 
Him. 3. That evil actions ought not to be done becaiitse they are of the 
devil, and from the devil. 4. That good actions ought to be done, because 
they are of God, and fiom God. 5. And that a man shall do them as of 
Himself, nevertheless under this belief, that they are from the Lord, ope- 
rating with him and by him. The first two particulars hiave relation to 
ft'th ; the next two to Charity ; and the last respects the coniunction of 
cuarity and faith, and thereby of the Lord and man. In his " Doctrine 
of Life" be states, " All religion has relation to life, find thelife of religion 
is to do good." Elsewhere he states, " There are five classes of those who 
read my writings. The first reject them entirely, because they are in 
another persuasion, or because they are in no faith. The secana receive 
them as scientiflcs, or as objects of mere curiosity. The third receive them 
intellectually, and are in some measure pleased with them, but whenever 
they require an application to regulate their lives, they remain where they 
were before. The fourth receive them in a persuasive manner, and are 
thereby led, in a certain degree to amend their lives and perform uses. 
The fifth receive them with delight, and confirm them iu their lives." 
Dear reader, to which class will you belong ? The following " Rules of 
Life," were found among the writings of tills great and good man, 1. 
Often to read and meditate on the Word of God. 2. To submit everything 
to the will of the Divine Providence. 3. To observe In everything a pro- 
prietv of behaviour, and to keep the conscience clear, i. To obey that 
which is ordained, to be faithfhlin the discharge of the duties of our 
employment, and to do everything in our power to render ourselves as 
universally useful as possible. His motto, "The Lord will provide." 

Regarding the happiness ot heaven, we quote the following from the 
writings of this illumined author. 

" It is said in heaven, that innocence dwells in wisdom, and that the 
angels have wisdom iii proportion as they have innocence. That this is 
the case they confirm from those considerations : That they who are in a 



i; i 






:fi 



■ , -li 1 

-I 



IS. 



so 



'Appendix to the autizans : atiiM. 



Utatd of innocence attribute nettling of good to tliemselves, but oonsidef 
tbemsei.ves onlv as receivers and ascribe all lo tbe Lobd ; that they are 
desirous to be led bv him, and not by themselTes ; that ther love every 
thing which is good, and are delighted with every thing which is true, 
because they Icnow and perceive that to love what is good, thus to will and 
do it is to love the Lord, and to love what is true is to love their neigh- 
bor ; that they live contented with what they have, whether it be little or 
much, because thev know that they receive as much as is profitable for 
them, little if little be profitable, and much if much, and that they them- 
Mlves do not know what is profitable for them, because this is known onlv 
to the Lord, who hath a view to what is eternal in all the operations of Ufs 

{>rovidence." " All who are in the good of innocence are afTeoted by 
nnooenco. and so fkr as any one is in that good, so far he is afi^ted. The 
inmost principles of heaven are two, viz., innocence and peace. They are 
termed inmosc principles, because they proceed imme<flately firom the 
LOBD. Innocence Is that principle from which is derived every good of 
heaven, and peace is that principle from which is derived all the delight of 
heaven. Every good is attended with delight ; and both good and delight 
have relation to love ; for whatever is loved is called good, and is per- 
ceived as delightful ; hence it follows, that those two inmost principles, 
innocence and peace, proceed from t^e divine love of the Lord, and affect 
tbe angels firom an inmost ground. " " The divine sphere of peace in 
heaven flows from the Lord, and exists in consequence of His conjunc- 
tion with the angels of heaven, ana in particular in consequence of the 
conjunction of good and truth in every angel. These are the origins of 
peace, whence n may be evident that peace In heaven is the Divine sphere 
jlnmostly affecting with blessedness every principle of good there, thu3 
acting as the source of of all the joy of heaven ; and that in its essence it is 
thejoyof the Lorb'b divine love, resulting fi'om His conjunction with 
heaven and with every one there. This joy perceived by the Lord in the 
angels, and by the angels from the Lord is peace. Hence, by derivation, 
"^be angels have every blessedness, delight and happiness, or that which is^ 
tenned. heavenly joy/' " Every one may know, that when man leaves the' 
external or natural man he comes into the Internal or spiritual ; whence 
it rray be known that heavenlv delight is internal or spiritual, but not 
external or natural ; and since it is internal and spiritual, that it is purer, 
and more exquisite, and that it afi'ects the interiors of man, which are the 
f!7«';ities of his soul or spirit," " The delights of heaven are ineffable, and 
litrewise innumerable. But of those innumerable delights not one of them 
•an he known or credited by him who is in the mere delight of the body or 
of the flesh ; since his interiors look away from heaven and towards fhe 
world, that is, backwards. Wherefore a person of this description would 
wonder greatly, if he were only told that tihere are delights existing when 
the d^ights of honor and gam are removed ; and otill more if he were 
told, that the delights oi heaven succeeding in their place are innumera- 
ble, and are such that the delights of the body and the flesh, which are 
I chiefly the desires of honor and gain, cannot be compared with them. 
Hence, tbe reason is evident, why it is not known what heaventy joy is." 
" The angelic life consists in use, and in doing good works from charity.' 
'J'oT nothing is more delightful to the angels than to instruct and teach 
wp'r'ta '^ommg fh)m the world, to serve maakind by inspiring them with 
t^hat is ^ood, and by restraining the evil spirits attendaut on them from 
passing weir proper bounds, to raise up the dead to eternal life, and after- 
guards, if their souls be of such a quality as to render Itpossible, to intro- 
duce them into heayen. In the performance of these omces they perceive 
an inlescribable degree of delight. Thus they become images of the 
Lord ; for they love their neighbour more than themselves, and where 
this feel'ng exists, there is heaven. Angelic happiness, then, is in use, 
^rom use, and according to use, or, in other words, it is perceived during 
tbe performance of the good offices of love and charitv." " Heavenly joy 
Itself, such as it is in its essence, cannot be described, because it has its 
Beat in the inmost grounds of the life of the angels, and thence in every 
particular of their thoughts and afl^tions, and from these again in every 
particular of their sneech and actions. It is as if the interiors were fully 
f xoanded to the reception of delight and blessedness, which is diffused 



i 






but oonsidef 
that tbey are 
ey love every 
rhich is true, 
U8 to will and 
e their neigh- 
r it be little or 
profitable for 
at they tbem- 
is known onlv 
irations of Ufa 
•e afiTeoted by 
affected. The 
ice. They are 
«ly from the 
every good of 
the delight of 
)d and delight 
d, and isper- 
ost principles, 
RD, and affect 
'6 of peace in 
rHis oonjunc- 
squence of the 
the origins of 
Divine sphere 
}d there, thu3 
ts essence it Is 
{junction with 
e LoKD in the 
by derivation, 
tnat which is 
nan leaves the 
tual ; whence 
itual, but not 
hat it is purer 
which are the 
ineffable, and 
it one of them 
f the body or 
1 towards <.he 
iption would 
[Xistlng when 
ire if he were 
•e innumera- 
|h, which are 
with them, 
eniyjoy is."^ 
•om charity. 
)t and teach 
ig them with 
In them from 
'e. and after- 
ble, to intro- 
|hey perceive 
lages of the 
and where 
I'n, is in use, 
ved during 
heavenly joy 
.se it has its 
|nce in every 
in in every 
were fully 
is diffused 



I 



(APV^VfDlX TO THE ARTIZANs' 0T7IDS. 



31 



m 



into ail the flBreti, and thus through the whole angel ; whence its percep- 
tion and sensation are such ae to admit of no description ; for what com* 
mences firom the inmost parts, flows into all derived from them, and 

Sropngates itself with continued augmentation towards the exteriors, 
ood spirits who are not as yet in that delight, because not as yet raised 
up into heaven, when they perceive it emanating from an angel by the 
sphere of his love, are filled with such delight that theyftillas it were into 
a swoon, through the sweetness of the sensation." " That I might know 
what is the nature of the delights of heavenly joys, it hath been granted 
me by the Lobd to perceive them ; wherefbre, since I have had living 
experience, I can know, but not at all describe them ; vet something shall 
be said to give some idea of them. It was perceived that the joy and 
delight came as from the heart, difihsing themselves with the utmost soft- 
ne'^s through all the inmost fibres with such a sense of enjoyment, that the 
fibre is as it were nothing but joy and delight ; and in like manlier every 
perception and sensation thence derived, receiving its life from happiness. 
The joy of bodily pleasures, compared with these joys, is as a gross and 
pungont clot compared with a pure and most gentle aura. It was observed 
that whon I wrj desirous to transfer all my delight to another, a more 
interior and ftallor delight fiowed in its place, and It was perceived that 
this was from thoLoRD." ■.-•^^^a.-i^ ji»-i>a 

Regardiog the puninhiaents of the wicked we extract the following ttom 
" Heaven and Hell." . . . - _ _ 

" Evil spirits are severely punished in'the world of spirits, that by pun- 
ishments they maybe deterred from doing evil. This appears as if it were 
from the Lord, when yet nothing of punishment comes from the Lord 
but from evil itself. For evil is so conjoined with its oum puniahme7it that 
they cannot be separated. The infernal crew desire and love nothing 
more than to do evil, especially to infiict punishment and torment; ana 
they likewise do evil, and inflict punishment on every one who is not pro- 
tected by the Lord ; wherefore, when evil is done by any from an evil 
heart, since this rejects from itself all protection from the Lord, infernal 
spirits rush in upon him who does it and punish him"— What infernal fire 
is— which is mentioned in the Word as the portion of those who are in 
hell, hath as yet been ' .nown scarcely to any one, by reason that mankind 
have thought materially respecting the things mentioned in the Word, 
not beine acquainted with its spiritual sense, wherefore by this fire some 
have unaerstood material fire, some torment in general, some the pangs of 
conscience, and some have supposed that it is mentioned merely to im- 
press the wicked with terror." «. ." The spiritual heat appertaining to man 
IS the heat of his life, because in its essence it is love. This heat is what 
is meant in the Word by fire, love to the Lord and neighbourly love being 
meant by heavenly fire, and self love and the love of the world being 
meant* by infernal fire ; and since such lust possesses all who are in the 
hells, therefore, likewise when the hells are opened, there is seen a sort 
of fiery appearance, with smoke issuing from it, such as is usually seen 
from buildings on fire, -i But when those are closed, this fiery appearance 
is not seen, but in its place an appearance like a dark mass of condensed 
smoke. ^ It is however to be noted^ that they who are in the hells are not 
immersed in fire, but that the fire is an appearance, for love corresponds 
to fire and all things which appear in the spiritual world appear accord- 
ing to oorrbspondences.'^" As by infernal fire is meant every lust to do 
evil flowing from the love of self, by it is also meant torment such as lias 
place in the hells. '» For the lust derived fh>m that love is the lust of hurt- 
ing others who do not honor, venerate and pay court to the subject of it; 
and when such lust prevails in every one, in a society which is restrained 
by no external bonas such as the fear of the law, and of the loss of repu- 
tation, of honor, of gain, or of life, every one under the impulse of nis 
own evil, rushes upon another, and so far as he prevails, enslaves the rest 
and reduces them under his dominion, and from a principle of delight 
exercises cruelty towards tbose fvho do not submit. AH the hells are such 
societies; wher&fore every one there beat's hatred in his heart against 
another, and from hatred bursts forth into cruelty, so far as he prevails." 
" As rebellious disturbances constantly exist there, since every one there 
desires to be greatest, and bums with hatred against othe^^ hence oom^ 



£' 



'' ''1 '■! 



ji|#tP 



W' 






82 



At^ENDlX TO THE ARTIZANS* GtlDE. 



1^ 



newoutr&gefl. Thus one scene is changed fbr another; wherefore they 
wlio had been made slaves are taken out to help some new devil to subju^ 
gate others ; when thoy who dc not submit, and yield implicit obedience, 
are again tormented by various methods, and so they go on continually. 
Such torments are the torments of hell, which are called infernal fire.'' 
Besides these general mi8«>rieB, in the first volume of the Arcana Ceeleatia 
are described o number of specific inflictions which follow the perpetrators 
of various crimes. 

Concerning tho medinm of salvation, we quote firom the Apocafypae 
Explained, So. 808, "It is Icnown that tkith grounded in love is the 
essential medium of salvation, and that hence it is the chief thing of the 
doctrine of the Church, but inasmuch as it is of importance to know how 
man may be in illustration, so as to learn the truths which must constitute 
his faith, and in affection so as to do the goods which muot constitute 
his love, and thus may know whether his f&Tth be the faith of truth, bnd 
his love the lovo of good, this will be shewn in its order ; which is this, 1. 
Let a man read the Word every day, one or two chapters, and learn from 
a competent teacher and from preachings, the doctrines of his religion ; 
and especially, let him learn that Goc is one, that the Lokd is the God of 
heaven and earth (John, iii, 86 ; Chap. xvii. 2, Matt, xi, 27 ; Chap, xxviii. 
18 ;) that the Word is holy, thnt there io a heaven and a hell, and that 
there Is a Ufe after death. 2. Let him learn from the Word, from a com- 
petent teacher and fi*om preachings, what works aro sins, and that they 
are oepecially adulteries, tholts, niurders, false testimonies, and several 
others mentioned in the decalogue ; likewiHe that lascivious and obscene 
thoughtsalso are adultery ; that frauds and illicit gains also are thefts ;that 
hatreds and revenges also aro murders ; and that lies and blasphemies also 
nre fblse testimonies ; and sc on. Let him learn all these things fis he 
advances from infiincy to adoloscence. 8. W hen man begins to think from 
himself, which takes place after the age of adolescence ; it must then be 
the first and primary thing with him, to desist from doiiift evils, because 
they are sins against the ^'ord, thus against Ood; and thai {f he does 
them, he cannot nave et^^^H life, hut hell ; and afterwards as be advances 
iu years, to shun tJiem as accursed, and turn away from them even in 
thought and intention. But in order to desist from t'lem, and shun and 
become averse to them ho must supplicate the Lord for aid. The sins 
from which he must desist and which he must shun and become averse to 
are principally adulteries, frauds, illicit gains, hatreds, revenges, lies, 
blasphemies, and pride, and solf-conceit. 4. In proportion as man detests 
those things by reason of their being against the Word, and thence against 
God, in the same proportion communication ia j^iven him with the I '^rd, 
and conjunction isefllBcted for him with heaven ; for the Lord enters, and 
with the iX>RD heaven, as sins are removed ; for these and their falses are 
the sole hindrances i?he reason is, ^)ecau8e man is set in the midst be- 
tween heaven and hell, wherefore hell ucte from the one part, and heaven 
from the other in proportion therefore as evils are removed which are 
from hell, in the same proportion goods from heaven enter, for the Lord 
says, ' Behold I stand at the door and knock ; if an^ man shall hear my 
voice, and open the door, I will coma in to him." Rev. iii. 20. But if man 
desists from doing these evils from any other cause than because they are 
sins, and against the Word, and thence against God, conjunction with hea- 
ven is not efibcted for him, because he desists from himself, and not from 
the Lord. The Lord is in the Word, insomuch that He is called the Word, 
John i., 1, 2, 3, 4. because the Word is frcm Him ; that hence there is con- 
junction of heaven with the man of the Church by the Word, may be seen 
in the work concerning Heaven and Hell, No. 803 to 310. So far then as 
man detests those sins, so far good aflbctions enter, as, for example, so fan 
as he detests adulteries, so far chastity enters ; so far as he detests frauds 
and unlawful gains, so far sincerity and justice enter, so far as he detests 
hatred and revenges, sc far charity enters ; so far as he de ests lies and 
blasphemies, so for truth enters, and so far as he detests pride and self-con, 
ceit, so far enters humility before God, and the love of his neighbor as himi 
self, and so on ; from hence it follows that to shun evils, is to do goods 
6. So far as man is in these good affections, so far he is led of the Lord, 

md not of himself, and so kit as he acts from them, so flu* he does good 



DE. 



wherefore they 
w devil to subju' 
pltoit obedience, 
on continually, 
(d infernal fire,'' 
4rcana Ccelestia 
the perpetrators 

the Apocalypa 
t In love Is the 
hief thing of the 
ice to know how 
1 must constitute 
raupi constitute 
ith of truth, and 
which is this, 1. 
I, and learn from 
) of his religion ; 
>RD is the Gou of 
7 ; Chap. xxTiii. 
a hell, and that 
)rd, from a com- 
ts, and that thoy 
Dies, and several 
loue and obscene 
ID are thefts ;that 
blasphemies also 
lese things as he 
ins to think from 
; it must then be 
<i(j evils, hecauae 
d thai if he does 
Is as he advances 
>m them even in 
and shun and 
aid. The sins 
orae averse to 
reveugos, lies, 
as man detests 
d thence against 
with the I '^RD, 
lORD enters, and 
d their falses are 
n the midst he- 
art, and heaven 
oved which are 
|er, for the Lord 
n shall hear my 
20. But it man 
ecause they are 
ction with hea- 
f, and not from 
ailed the Word, 
|nce there is con- 
rd, may be seen 
So far then as 
example, so fan 
detests frauds 
"ar as he detests 
Ide ests l^es and 
lide and self-con, 
eighbor as him< 
is to do goods 
d of the Lord, 
he does good 



VM 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' OUIDE. 



33 



works ; beoause ho does them from the Loso and not from himself : he 
then aots from charity, from sincerity and Justice, from oharltv, from 
truth, in humility before (Jud, and from these no one can act of nimself. 
7. Th3 spiritual afibctlons which arc bestowed by the LosDon the man 
who is in those principles, and aots from them, are the aflbotion of know- 
ing and understanding the truths, and goods of heaven and the church, to- 
gether with tbe affectiou of willing and doing them ; likewise the alfeo* 
tion attended with zeal of fighting against falses and evils, and dissipating 
them with himself and with othero ; henco man has faith and <ove, ana 
hence he has intelUgenco and wisdom. 8. Thus, and not otherwise, ia man 
reformed ; and so far as ho knows truths, and wills and does them, so far 
he i- regenernted, and from natural becomes spiritual, in like manner his 
faith and his love. 

If -^vil^ are not romovm') I'^ecause they are sins, all things which man 
thinks, speaks, wilk and does, aro not good nor true before tiOD, however 
they appear as good and truo beforo the world ; the reabon ia, because they 
are not from the Lord, but from man, for it ia the love of man and of the 
World, from which they arc and which is in them. Most people of this 
daf* believe, thatthevclo all come into heaven if they havefhith, livepious- 
ly, and do good works ; and yet they do not hold evils in aversion because 
they are sins, wh'^nce they either commit them or believe them to be al- 
lowable, and they that believe them to be allowable, commit them when 
opportunity ia given ; but let them know that their faith is not faith, that 
their piety is not piety, and that their good works are not good, for they 
flow from tho impurities which lie inwardly concealed in man, the exter- 
nals deriving all their quality from the internals ; lor the Lord says, "Thou 
blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and platter, that the out- 
side may be clean also. Matt, xxili. 26 ; from these considerations it may 
now be evident, that if man should fUlfll all things of the law, if he shoulc 
give much to the poor, if be should do good to theiatherless andthe widow, 
nay. if he shoula also give bread to the hungry and drink to the thirstv, 
gather the sojourners, clothe the naked, visit the sick, go to the bound in 

Srison ; if he should preach the gospel strenuously, convert the Gentiles, 
■equent temples, hear preachings with devotion, attend the sacrament of 
the supper frequently devote time to prayer, with more such things, and 
his internal ia not purified from hatred and revenge, from craftiness and 
malice, from insincerity and injustice, from the filthy delight of adultery, 
from the love of self and the love of ruling thence uerived, and the priae 
ofself-intelligence, from contempt of others in comparison with himself, 
and from all other evils and the mlses thence derived ; still all these works 
are hypocritical, and are from the man himself and not from the Lord. 
But on the other hand, those same works, when the internal is purified, 
are all jgood, because they are from the Lord with man ; who oannut 
otherwise than do them, because he ia in the faith and love of doingthem." 
— " These are tbe works, which are understood in the Word by works, 
which can by no means be separated from faith, for faith separated from 
them Is dead, and dead faith is a faith of what is false from an evil love, or 
is the thought that a thing is so, whilst the life ia still evil."— " That to 
abstain from evils from any other cause whatever, than from the Word, 
does not purlQr the internal man, is evident from the origin of ovil works 
and from the origin of good works ; as he who abstains from adulteries 
from fear of the civil law and its punishments, from fear ot the loss of fame 
and thence of honor, from fear of hurt arising from poverty, covetousness or 
avarice ; from fear of sickness from them, and consequent intranquility of 
life, from infirmity arising from abuse, or from age, or even from natural 
good and the moral principle thence derived, ao not being becoming and 

ftroper, &c., and from these causes alone lives chastely, stul he is ipterior- 
y unchaste and an adulterer, if he does not abstain from them out of spir- 
itual faith, which faith is, that adulteries are infernal, because xhey are 
contrary to the Divine Law, and thence contrary to the fear of God, and 
the love of the neighbour. And so in all other cases." 

As many may desire further information rospeoting doctrines which 
are silently but surely finding their way with transforming power among 
all classes of Christians, I will now insert in their order, 1. Who are these 
new Church people? by Bev, Dr. Bayley of London, 2. The Hibbau^ of 



k 



84 



APPENDIX TO XH£ ^JlTlZANb :.JU>E. 



I 



|i 



I 

I 



Blue, from " The Divine Word Opened." by the Mme author. Intended to 
illustrate the oorrespondenoe of garmenta, oolont, fto., in the Word. 8. 
Tho BubatADce of aniiiterTiew held at No. 20, Cooper Union, NewYorlt, by 
a Sun Reporter. 4. List of Swedeuborg's theological wiitinvs, together 
with the namei of a few valuable collateral worlu which will be found 
well worthy of perusal. 

WHO ABE THESE NEW CHURCH PEOPLE ? 

The fk^uenoy with which the sentiments unfolded in the writing^ of 
Swedenborg, and others iu illustration of them, are mot with from time 
to time, impels many inquiring minds to aslc tbe question above recorded, 
and has induced the information to be given which is afforded in the 
following dialogue : — 

Q. Who are these New Church people 1 

A. They are Christians who believe that the higher culture and greater 
progress of the world towards light, charity, and peace, depend upon a 
closer communion with the Lord Jesus Christ, as the all lu all to His 
Church, God over all, in Whom dwells all the fulness of the Godhead 
bodily. 

Q, But why the; do they call themselves Swedenborgians t 

A. They do not call themselves Swedenborgians ; but Nbw Church- 
XKM, or Christians of the New Jerusalem Church. They esteem very 
highly the writings of Swedenborg, who was an illustrious servant of the 
Lord Jesus. By the truths in his writings they have been greatly profited ; 
they find themselves assisted to draw nearer to the Saviour, to undor- 
i>tand the Scriptures more thoroughly, ai>d perceive their wondrous 
Divinity. These writings also contain muca concerning the laws and 
circumstances of the eternal world. 

Q. But what is this about the New Jerusalem : Do they think a great 
golden city is to come down to the earth through the clouds f 

A. Not in the least. These outward wonders and spectacles m the skies 
they leave to others. They understand that sentiments golden and dear 
are to enter men's minds. . They only expect the world to t>ecome nearer 
like heaven, as new principles of light, love, andJu8tice,become more fully 
received, and extensively spread among men. They believe thoroughly 
the words of the Lord Jesus, "The kingdom of God oometh not by out- 
ward observation ; neither shall men say, lo here ! nor, lo there ' But the 
kingdom of God is within you" (Luke xvii. 21). We can make our little 
wond happier to-day if we will. And the whole world m ust learn to become 
wiser, ana will and strive to become better, and so the Lord will become 
king overall the earth (Zeoh. xiv. 9.; 

Q. But why do they talk of anything new on ^uch subjects f How can 
there be anything new in religion f Christianity is old enough, and if 
they are Christians how can they be new, New Church, or anything of 
that kind f 

A. Religion, though always pure at first, when revealed from the Lord, 
has a great tendency to become corrupt, in time, by the self-seeking 
disposinons of worldly Christians, who hope to acquire pelf and power by 
making religion popular, and debasing it by popular errors and human 
traditions, rather than by elevating the people to justice, judgment, and 
the love of God. So the Jews made the commandments of God of none 
eflfect by their traditions. So Christianity, by corruptions commencing 
in the time of Constantine, became a mass of mysteries and superstitions. 
The first great error was a God said to be of three separate (>ivlne perhons, 
and then the worship of Mary as a semi-divine person. Next came pray- 
ing to a host of dead men. and oaring more for their bones and relics 
than for keeping the commandments of God. The Scriptures were shut 
up away from the people until the time of the Reformation, and though in 
this country and America we have the Scriptures fully now, many or the 
leading corruptions of dark times remain. These perversions and evils 
which united with, and others which arise out of thera, make religion old 
and bring it to an end i then the Lord Jesus reveals eternal truths afresh 
(iud caU9 Vi^QJix new ; the^ are new to us. It is wntto):^ in elation tv 




i" 



>E. 



or. intended to 
1 the Word. 8. 
I, NewYork, by 
tinKS, together 
i will be found 



B r 

he writing! of 
with from time 
bove recorded, 
forded in the 



ire and greater 

lepend upon a 

iu all to His 

r the Godhead 

IS? 

!iBW CHUHOH- 

y esteem very 
servant of the 
eatly profited ; 
our, to under* 
leir wondrous 
the laws and 

' think a great 

18? 

lea in the skies 
Iden and clear 
become nearer 
>me more fully 
VQ thoroughly 
h not by out- 
here < But the 
nake our little 
am to become 
will become 

» r How can 
aough, and if 
anything of 

om the Lord, 
e self-seeking 
and power by 
3 and human 
udgment, and 
God of none 
commencing 
superstitions, 
ivlne pemons, 
ct came pmy< 
» and relics 
res were shut 
nd though in 
many of the 
>ns and evils 
reliji^on old 
truths afresh 
■a relAtioA ty 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GUIDE. T 35 

these times, He who sat open the throne scid, Bbbold, I uakm alu 
THINGS 3(sw (Bev. xlx. 6). 

Q. What are thft.e new principles you speak of ? Tell mo the first. 

▲. It is new ; yet it is truly old. it is that Jehovah, the eternal God, 
our Creator, is absolutely one, and He became our Saviom* Jesus Christ. 
So that in Jesus Christ is the first and the last, the human and the 
Divine, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, the eternal Trinity. Ho 
is all in all to us, the Father in Him as the soul is in tUe body. 

Q. YetChrist prayed to th Father? 

A. That was while He wa< .n the world In times of temptation, while 
He had our nature, with its infirmities and imperfections, and He had to 
tieaoh us how to sufibr and to pray. The human prayed to the Divine, as 
our lower nature appeals for succour to our better nature in times of 
distress It seems to us, in deep trials, as if there were two persons in us ; 
but they are not two persons, and when the trial is over and per^tion 
attained, then there is entire unity. So when Christ's trials were over and 
His humanity was glorified, there was no praying to the Father, but Ho 
was maniltotly the Father in the Son (John xiv. 13). He who sees Him 
sees the Father (John xiv. 7.8,9). He is the everlastinff Father and the 
Prince of Peace (Isa. ix. 6) He is the|root and the osbpring of David, 
the bright and the morning Star (Rev. xxii, 16). He is the Sun of righ- 
teousness (Mai. iv. 2). The Bread of Life (John vi. 48). The Light of tho 
world (John ix. 5), The King of kings and Lord of lords (Bev. xix. 19). 
Come to Him, pray to Him, follow Him, serve Him. 

Q. But how about the Atonement F 

A. Christians of the New Jerusalem believe in the Atonement m the 
Apostle Paul expresses it, God was in Christ reconciling the world unto 
Himself (2 Cor. v. 1). He reconciled it to Himself first in His own 
Humanity (John xvil. 19 ; Eph. ii. 16). He has been reconoUlng it ever 
since by His Gospel, and He will reconcile it to Himself in us if we wUl 
repent, turn to Him, and become new men. 

Q. Is there not something peculiar about the way of viewing the Bible ? 

A. We have precisely the Jame Bible that you have, but the New Church 
declares the Bible to have a spiritual meaning, over and above the literal 
meaning ; not denving the literal meaning, but usingit for history, fbr 
doctrine, and for edification, as other Chrrtians do. The spiritual mean- 
ing constitutes a Bible within the Bible, aiways treating of the Church, 
the regeneration of the soul, of the battles we wage against our sins, and 
of the things of heaven. But this is only what the Saviour said. My 
words, they are spirit and they are life (John vi. 68) ; the apostles declares 
the same tning. The letter kUleth, but the spirit giveth life (2 Cor. iii. 6). 

Q. But how about the early chapters of Genesis T 

A. Up to the historv of Abraham, they are Divine allegories, fiill of 
spiritual wisdom, clothed in the language of parable, in the manner of 
tnat most ancient literature that was the origin of the Egyptian Hiero- 
glyphics, and the beautifhl fables of the Greeks. Hence there is no con- 
tradiction between this part of the Bible and geology. Natural creation is 
the emblematical account of moral and spiritual cr^tion. 

Q, Is a man, according to these views, saved by faxth alonk in th« 
merits of hia Saviour ? 

A. He must have faith In the merits of his Saviour, and he has no 
merits of his own. But ho must also believe, love, and do his Saviour's 
will, or he cannot be prepared for heaven. In religion, love is the great 
principle, the root of all the rest (Rom. xiii. 8 10 ; Matt. xxii. 87 40). The 
Apostle Paul said. Now abideth these three, faith, hope, and charity 'or 
love), and the greatest of these is charity (or love). (Cor xiii. 13). 

He who loves the Lord Jesus, will believe His words, and do His 
commandments. Faith alone is dead, the apostle said (James ii. 26) ; 
whether it is in the merits of our Saviour, which are truly infinite, or 
anything else. The faith which loves and works is the only faith which 
saves. 

Q. How is a heavenly character formed ? 

A. First, by a conviction of our sinfulness, then by rgMnjAnce and 

Erayer. Next, by perseverance in well-doing, by confidentTM'th in the 
lOrd Jesus, faithfUluesa in tho times of trial ana tempiStion ; by dfdly 



ill- 



m 



'■">,. 



s 



1 1.\ 



fie 



APPENDIX TO THE ARNIZANB' OUIDS. 



reading of th« Word of Gi d, and prayer, and by tho diHgent ttae of the 
meana of f v»04^. Thua the tastes aud aims uliife beoome entirely altered, 
and the soul delight* in heavenly things na its chief Joy. 
Q. What then » the New Churohman-s hulk or li»k f 



Preotoely that taa^ht m the Old and in th(^ New Testament by tho 

Lord Jerai and Bis apostles : namely in humility, fiiith, and :ove to keep 

the Ten Commandments. What doth the Lord thy Ood ivqulre of the<', 

but to dojtistlr, love mercy, aud walk humbly with thy God f (Slicah ri. 

8). Jeeus saia, If ye iove me, keep my commandments (John xiv. 16). 

The Apostle nul wrote, Ciroumclaion Is nothing, and unciroumeisiou is 

nothing, but KlcBPma tub ooMBtANDMBirrs ok uod (1 Cor. vii. 19) ; ajnd 

Jo'n oeclared.Thls Is the love of God, that wo kupp His commandments : 

and His oommaildments are not grievous (1 John v. 8). 

, We must keep the Divine precepts in all the employments, engagements, 

I habits, and acts, of daily livk ; without that, our oelief is vain, and our 

' religion eelf-deoeptlon. 

Q. Can this be done by a man's own stren h and merit ? 

A. No man has any stren/Kth or any morii, but what oomes Oom God, 

every moment of his life. But God our Saviour does give strength to 

' every one who truly seeks Him. Ue also gives His angels charge to aid 

. tu ft'om our bii-tb to our grave. And they lovingly receive utt and wci- 

oome us when we die. 

Q. Are all bhildren who die taken to heaven f 

A. Oh, qortaiolv. Angels of love, who have been their guardian angelci 
take them into tneir blesaed care in htaven. train them in love and wis? 
dom, and thus lead them to enjuy thefhll bliss ot their heavenly home. 

Q. Do peOble know eaoh other after death, who have known each other, 
In the world 7 

A. Certainly, and they will continue together, if their states agi«e and 
trill permit. ' 

Q. Is there any other especial feature of the principles of this New 
Church r 

A. Yes :*the very high and sacred character it attributes to marriage. 

This holy institution is retrarded as one for which the Creator has formed 

the sexes in mind and boay, and should be entered upon only with the o 

,who are constantly strivinK to overodnne self, to live for heaven as well ud 

' for earth, and who shUn sipas agabist purity, as tho deadliest of sins. 

Q. How does this Church regard the Besurreotion t 

A. Every person has a spiritual body as well as a natural body (1 Cor. 

, ji^v. 44^. Thla spiritual body becomes more beautiful by regeneration, or 

"Indre ugly by siu. Flesh and blood, as the Apostle says, cannot inherit 

the kingdom of God (1 Cor. xv. 50], The body thou sowest is not the 

body that shall be (v. 37). But the angelic Christian mind has a heavenly 

body, for God glveth it a body as it hath pleased Him, and to every seed 

, hisown body (v. 88). Absent fh>m the eaithlv body, he is present with 

the Lord (2 Cor. y. 8). Evil persons have a spiritual body as ugly as they 

are vicious. Both are fitted at death for the worlds to which they go : 

and the dust returns to the dust whence it was. All the parts of the 

Gospel which treat of the resurrection of man, mean the resurrection of 

the soul fi-om the death of sin, and the grave of corruption, t& the life of 

righteousness too spiritual health (John v. 24,25 ; Eph. v. 2, 5). Is not 

this soriptnrial view far more sensible than to Imagine that all who have 

, died are without bodies, until the scattered dust of bodies which had 

. fivery hour been changing during l\fe, and had been taking new fbrms in 

the vegetable world, been eaten by animals, and then become parts of 

other numan bodies, for no one knows how many thousands of years, is 

brought together again P 

Q. But cannot God's omnipotence do this f 

A. God never uses His omnipotence to do what is foolish and wrong. 
' We haVe no warrant to call In God's power to justify our blunders. 
Whatever God does is the best thing, done in the wiskst way. 

Q. When and where does judgment take place ? 

A. The true Christian judges himself from day to day. But, after death, 
Jhe appears before the judgment seat of Christ in the spirit world, which is 
an intermediato state between heaven and hell. After death the judg« 
ipent (Heb. ix. 27J, * ^ 



B. 



mt aae of the 
tirelj altered, 



tAmeot by the 
I love to keep 
cjulre of tlie«, 
kd ?(MinahTi. 
lohn xiv. 16). 
ircumeiaiou is 
. vii. 19) ; ifid 
imondmenta : 

ens 

vain, and our 

P 

nes rtom God. 

e strength to 

charge to ai() 

re us and wel< 



lardian angeU 
love and wiSii 
'enl7 home. 
wn each other, 

ates agree and 

B of this New 

>8 to marriage. 
or has formed 
aijr with those 
ivdn as well ad 
t of sins. 

1 body (1 Cor. 

geueration, or 

cannot inherit 

est is not the 

las a heavenly 

to every se^d 

present with 

s ugly as they 

hich they go : 

parts of the 

esurrection of 

t6 the life of 

2,6). Ic not 

all who have 

g which had 

new fbrms in 

ome parts of 

of years, is 



h and wrong. 
)ur blunders. 

7A.Y. 

;, after death, 
)rld, which is 
ktb the jadg< 



APPENDIX TO TUS AUTIZANB' UUID£. 



37 



Q. Is thnro much said in Scripture about this Intermediate state, or 
world of Judgment and instructiou f 

A. Very much. It is the wt)rld the prophets saw in vision, or when 
their spiritual eyes wore np<>nud( Numb. xxiv. m;2Klnffs vl. 17). John in 
the KevelatiutiH dt>Ncrib«>8 what he saw In that world through all its 
cliaptcrs ; h"avou was above him— the bottomless pit below him. 
6. Hut what, thpu, is moaut by the Judgment at the cud of tl-o world f 
A. The 9nd of the world, in the origlual Uruek of the Hciintures, is tlio 
end of the auk or dihfbmhatiosi ; aud when a Church has been for agos 
corrupt, tho bullc o; the people have been oheriab>.ug mlstakeu principles, 
and iu many thing:) doing wrong tho greater part oi their livos, as in dis* 
likiug aud hating others that were not of their own Church, and suppos- 
iug tiiat it was right all the while. Those cannot be so soon ititroducodas 
in purer times, either to h).>av«m or to hell, and great numbers gather and 
remain in tho spirit world, the world of Judgment. But, at the end of 
the age, all are judged, and a new age or new dispensation is begun in the 
world. The end of tho world means the end of a disiiensation, not tho end 
of the universe (Ps. Ixxv. 8 : Isa. xxiv. 10,19). 
Q. Then is not the natural world to come to an end at all F 
A. Certainly not. According to Scripture, thu world and tho universe 
will endure for ever (See t^ccles. i. 4 ; I's. Ixxli. 6, 17 ; Ixxviii. 69 ; civ. fi ; 
cxlviii.6; xciii. 1 ;xc/i. 10). 

Q, What, then, do you understand by the second coming of our Lord 
iu the clouds of heaven ? 

A. He haij bet>n banished from Ills Church by grievous errors and evil 
practices. Ho comes nearer wfion men receive His truth in love and obey 
Him. He comes nearer in tho fuller opening of His Word. He comes in 
truer principles into the hoarti< and minds of men, He comes by the ex- 
tension of llis truth into all the ways and works of men. Light is like 
the inward glory of the Uible ; the clouds mean the outward language of 
the Bible, through which an inner glory shines. He comes in clouds 
when He makes Himself known to men in the language of His Word, 
which la plainly there revealing the true character of Himself, His will, 
and His Kingdom, though they had forgotten or ignored it. All tho 
writers of the Bible are called a cloud of witnesses (Heb. xii. 1). Those 
who take the letter without the spirit are said to be clouds without water 
(Jude 12), The Lord comes iu the clouds ofiieaven when He- applies 
His Word to tho hearts and minds of men ;— In power and great glory, 
when He reveals the power of His Word .nd the great glory of His king- 
dom. Behold, I stand at the door and knock ; if any man will open the 
door, I will cnmein to him, and sup with him, and he with Me, The king. 
Uoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His 
Christ, aud He, as One Divine I'erson, shall reigu forever aud ever. (Rev. 
xi,15.) 
Q. What is taught as to heaven and hell f 

A. Very much, so that the laws of both may now be fully understood. 
Heaven is formed of the heavenly-minded, who have been made such by 
regeneration, more or less perfectly done on earth. The heavenly ones 
are arranged in most perfect order.by the laws of divinelove and wisdom; 
Tor in our Father's house there are many mansions (John xiv. 2.) Hell 
is composed of those who have made hell upon earth ; they take them- 
selves, their passions, and their lusts with them into pain aud sorrow. Tho 
rage, the hate, the torment, the misery they excite and inflict upon one 
another is the hell-tire iu which they live. The never-dying worm is tho 
symbol of their low, grovelling selfishness : it is their worm (Mark ix. 14), 
not God's. The wiCKed create thpir fire, they keep it alive themselves 
lsa.;ix.l8 ; 1.11); th« false and insane thoughts of every kind which they 
conceive, and in which thev live, make the utter darkness of their abode, 
of which the Saviourspeak's. (Matt. xxii. 13.) 

Q. Do you use the two saci-aments iustitutedbyour Lord, of Baptism^ 
and the Holy Supper ? 

A. Oh certainly, and we see a sacred and most edifying meaning in each 
of them. Baptism we administer in the name of the Father, Son, and 
Holy Spirit, as a dedication of the person baptized to the service of the 
Lord Jesus, aud the water is a sjrmbbl of tbfit livino tbuth which is th« 



\i if 



m 



38 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



Water of Life, and by which the soul is to be purified. The Bread and 
the Wine in the Holy Supper, are the symbols of the goodness which our 
Lord calls the Bbbad of Lifb, and the Wisdom which Ue calls the 
" Nbw Wine of the Kingdom." When we sincerely receive these, we 
receive Him. We eat His flbsh and drink His blood, and have xtbr- 

ITAL LIFB. 

O. But do you think that other Christians have not truth as wcii as you ; 
and that no one can be saved but those who Join your communion ? 

A. Certainly not. There is much truth in r/ery denomination of 
Christians, especially among those who possess and read the Word of 
God with diligence and prayer. We believe, moreover, that every one, 
will be saved who loves Groa, and strives to do His will in shunning evil 
and doing good according to what in his heart he believes to be true, 
whethe." he be of the Church of England, whose pious and learned clergy- 
notwithstanding m;;cy ezceptionp, we revere and admire, vhoi'.'^ j"Vayere 
Bo k, with serious doctrinal defects, has many excellencies, aaa whose 
reverence for the Word of God is her chief glory ; or worthy zealous 
Protestant Dissenters, or good Reman Catholics, good lews, or Gentiles 
Those who love God and work righteousness according to the best of their 
knowledge, will be relieved of their errors after death, and form part of 
the sublime fold in heaven, of which our Savionr speaks. " Other sheep 
have I that are not of this fold, them also must I bring, that there may be 
oira FOLD and omb shepherd" (John iv. 14). The Apostle Peter spoke 
very clearly on the same point when he said, " Of a truth 1 perceive that 
God is no respecter of persons ; but in every nation he that feareth God, 
and worketh righteousness, is accepted of Him." ( Acts x. 84, 85). 

Q. Is it, then, of no importance whether we belong to a true religion or 
a false one ; whether we oelieve truth or error ? 

A. It is only truth, in any system, that does a person good, but there is 
much truth attached to every religion. Error is always a hindrance and 
a detriment. Truth is clear and lull of comfort. Error is obscure, per- 
plexing, and leads to distress. Truth is daylight. Error is a fog. u, is 
because we believe the Lord has given at this time abundance ot truths 
which are for from being generally acknowledged, which are ediiVing, 
delightful, and strengthening to lis, that we wifh all around us, both men 
and Churches, to accept them, and be strengihened and bless* d also, so 
that thj will of God may more periiectly bo done upon earth, as it U done 
in heaven. 

Dear reader, would you possess a scriptural, spiritual, rational, saving 
religion to aid you in your walk towards heaven, come and hear tbeso 
Chnstians of the New Jerusalem, let them be called Swedenborgians, or 
what you like. Do you wish to see mankind issuing out of superstition, 
sectarianism, rationalism, narrowness, and darkness, into the glorious 
liberty of the children of light, then come and hear. Do vou wish to see 
goodness and truth extending their sacred influence, and sin and folly 
shown to be the disorderly, brutal, coarse, and worthless things they are, 
then come and hear, 

We address you In the language of Kioses to Jethro,' We are journeying 

which the Lord said, I will mve it you; come with uh. 



unto the place of 

and we will do you good 

Israel. And it shall oe, if you go with us, yea, it sliall beT that what good' 

ness the Lord shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee. " 



29,82). 



for the Lord hath spoken good concerning 

what go 
(Numb. X, 



THE RIBBAND OF BLUE. 



" Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them 
fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, 
and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband oi blue : And 
it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember 
all the commandments of the Lord, and do them."— Numb. xv. 38, 39. 

It is extremely to be regretted that so many who bear the name of 

Christian, have the most inadequate view of religion. To many it is but 

, a name. They call themselves by the name of this or that great oody, but 

ask them what they think of the principles which the name Implies, and 



)E. 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS QUIDE. 



39 



Bread and 
18 which our 
e calls the 
ire these, we 
have STER- 

w<>u as you ; 
Dion ? 
mination of 
he Word of 
t every one, 
lunnlng evil 
to be true, 
,mcii clergy- 
nof.'i j>ayero 

aau whose 
thy zealous 
, or Gentiles 

beet of their 
brm part of 

Other sheep 
bhere may be 
Peter spoke 
erosive that 
feareth God, 
,35). 
le religion or 

I but there is 
Ddrance and 
tbscure, jper- 
I a fog. It is 
ice ot truihB 
ire edifying, 
IS, both men 
i8«d also, so 
as it i j done 

onal, saving 
hear these 
orgians, or 
superstition, 
the glorious 
lu wish to see 
in and folly 
ngs they are, 

e journeying 
me with \i», 

concerning 
t what good- 

(Numb. X, 



y make them 
generations, 
fblue: And 
id remember 

V. 38, 39. 
the name of 
lany it is but. 
3at body, but 

implies, and 



▼on find the name, and little besides. Others, again, seem to think that 
religion is an excellent debating-gronnd, a favorite battle-field. They 
will inoeuantly wrangle and dispute about its everlasting principles, but 
meditate little upon them, and practise them less. These are like the left- 
handed men of Benjamin among the Israelites of old, who " could sling 
stones at an hairbreadth and not miss." Thev are not of much use except 
in war. Far more eloquently and convincingly does he speak for his 
religion, whose life pleads for it; who shows that he derives from it 
virtue and defence, consolation and strength, light and blessing; and 
therefore recommending it in deed, can also recommend it in word. " Ye 
are car epistles," said the apostle, " known and read of all men." 

Perhaps we cannot give a more comprehensive definition of religion, 
than to say it is the supply to the soul or all its spiritual wants. It is the 
soul's home, its food and its clothing; and to this latter feature, its being 
clothing for the soul, we now entreat your attention. '"Blessed," it w 
written, "is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk 
naked, and they see his shame."— Rev. xvi. 15. 

That garments, even in the Jewish law, are the corresponding symbols 
of those principles which clothe the soul, may be inferred ftom the laws 
which we fi^uently find in relation to them. Unless there was a spiri- 
tual sense in them, surely it would not have been worthy of the High and 
Lofty One who inhabiteth eternity to give directions in relation to what 
kind of clothes men should wear. There is the direction not to wear a gar- 
ment of woollen and linen together ; again, for a woman not to wear 
a garment of a man : again, for a man's garment not to be kept 
in pledge after the sun has gone down : and now the law before us, that a 
ft'inge snould be made to the garment, and on the fVinge a ribband of 
blue. Surely it cannot concern the Infinite Ruler of all worlds what kind 
of trimming His people have to their dress, or color of ribband they have 
thereon. 

The soul and its concerns are surely the only appropriate objects of a 
Revelation from the Eternal Father of immortal heings. To teach ua 
how to give the spirit a dress, so that it may be beautiful in the sight of 
angels, u worthy of him who clothes Himself with light as with a garment 
[Ps. civ. 2]. " I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou 
mayest be rich ; and white raiment, that thou mavestbe clothed, and that 
the shame of thy nakedness may not appear. "—Rev, iii. 18. 

The chiefuse of clothing is defence against the chills and variations of 
the weather ; two subordinate uses are for the promotion of beauty, and 
for distinction of office. 

We can be at no loss to perceive that there are mental uses correspond- 
ing to the above which require for the soul spiritual clothing. The soul 
has its summer and its winter, and all the varieties of a mental year. 
There are seasons of hopefulness and brilliancy, in which we have all the 
elasticity and promise of spring ; there are states of peaceftil warmth, of 
continued serene happiness; "the soul's calm sunshme and the heartfelt 
joy" which bespeak the spirit's summer ; but there are likewise periods 
ofdecreasingwarmth, of incipient depressions, and coolness to what has 
formerly yielded the highest pleasure ; until at length we arrive at states 
<tf pain ml chill, and even of intensest cold, the joylessness, the hopeless- 
ness, and the sadness, which are the attendants of the winter of the soul. 

This depressed condition of the spii its is portrayed with graphic truth- 
fulness by one who said— 

" My years are in the yellow leaf. 
And all the life of life is gone ; 
The worm, the canker, and the grief. 
Are mine alone." 

And in a sweeter spirit of piety, by another poet— 

" O for a closer walk with God. 
A sweet and heavenlv frame ; 
A light to shine upon the road, • 
hioh leads me to the Lamb. 



"f! 






tfti 



ii^.. Iii 



^ 



APPENDIX or THE ABTIZANS' QUIDIK 



Where is the blessedness I kne\ 
When first I saw the Lord ? . 

Where is the soul-refroshing view 
Of Jesus, and his Word ? 

" What peaceftil hours I once enjoyed 
How sweet their memory still ; 
But they have left an aching void 
The world can never fill/' 

In this wintry state, storms of distressing fears and darkening donbts 
will rush upon the soul. Strong delusions, that we may believe a lie, will 
like fierce tempests, howl about us. Cold, harassing, cheerless firames of 
mind, dispiriting anxieties, filling us with discomfort and dread : bitter 
self-accusations urged upon us, perhaps by ''spiritual wickedm^ss in high 
places," like pitiless hail-storms whicii come upon us again and again, 
all teach us how real it is that the soul has its winter as well as its sum- 
mer. In relation to these spiritual seasons it is written, "And it shall 
be in that day, that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem : half of 
them toward the former sea, and half of them toward tho hinder sea ; in 
summerand in winter shall it be."— Zech. xiv. 8. 

Thrice happy are they who remember, the living waters of the -Divine 
Word will be a comfort and a blessing in joy and in sorrow, in sickness 
and in health, in summer and in vi/intc; ; but they should also bear in 
mind, that, to be a protection m all seasons, the Divine Mercy has pro^ 
vided U8 with spiritual clothing. 

The DocikiNEs of religion, when intelligently adopted and adapted to ^ 
our particular states, serve this important purpose. And when those doc- * 
trines are as they ought to be, full, compretiensive, and complete, apply- 
ing themselves to all the departments of human affection, thought, and 
life, theymake a complete dress. Hence it issaid in Isaiah, " I will great- 
ly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God ; for he hath 
clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the 
rube ofrightoousnes8,a8 a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments,and 
as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels." — Ixi. 10. 

The doctrines which teach the true character of the Lord, His infinite 
and unchanging' Love, His unerring and all-comprehensive Wisdom, His 
omnipotent and ever-orderlv Power, these form the clothing for the 
head. The doctrines which teach and impel us to our duty to our neigh- 
bor, form the clothing to the breast : while those which teach that our 
religion should be operative, and descend to inspire and sanctify every 
word and every deed of life : these are the remainder of the spirit's dress, 
even to the " shoes upon the tfeet." 

With this view of the spiritual dress of the Christian, we shall see the 
fullest significance in many interesting portions of the sacred Scriptures. 
When the prodigal son returned, we are informed; "The father said unto 
his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him ; and put a ring 
on his hand, and shoes on his foot,"— Luke xv., 22, where it is manifest 
that the clothing of a newly-penitent spirit with those sacred truths which 
will form its best robe, that assurance of everlasting love which conjoins 
it to its Lord as a golden marriage-ring, and those true principles of virtu- 
ous practice which are the only bases of real religion, are the shoes upon 
the feet. 

A most important lessou iS jtitorded to us by the Divine vVord in Mat- 
thew. It is said of those who came in to partake of the wedding feast of 
the King of heaven, " And when the king came in to seethe guests, he 
saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment ; and he said unto 
him, Friend, how earnest thou in hither, not h iving a wedding garment? 
And he was speechless. Then said the king to the servants. Bind him 
hand and foot, and take )iim away, and cast him into outer darkness ; 
there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth" — xxii. 11—13. No one 
can imagine that there was any sin in a particular earthly dress :iot being 
had by ttiose who enter the Lord's kingdom. But in a spiritual point of 
view, nothing can exceed the value of the intimation it contains. The 
kingdom of heaven, lit fact everything heavenly, is the result Qf » mar* 



'APPENDIX TO THE AETIZANS'. GUIDE. 



41 



ing doabts 
e a He, will 
i frames of 
ad I bitter 
ess in high 
and again, 
%s its sum- 
id it shall 
m:half of 
der sea ; in 

the- Divine 
u sickness 
so bear in 
!y has pro- 
adapted to 
1 those doc- * 
ete, apply- 
3ught, and 
will great- 
er he hath 
le with the 
iments,and 

lis infinite 
isdom, Hia 
ig for the 
our neigh- 
that our 
ctlfy every 
rit's dress, 

all see the 
Scriptures, 
said unto 
i put a ring 
is manifest 
iiths which 
h conjoins 
es of virtu- 
hoes upon 

d in Mat- 
iig feast of 
guests, he 
3 said unto 

garment? 
ind him 
darkness ; 
No one 
lot being 
point of 
■ains. The 
Qf p mw* 



nage. Wisdom sweetly blends vtrlthlovetoformthehaavenly state. Iti» 
not a kingdom of faith alone, but of faith united to charity. No cold 
knowledge is tolerated there, but must be cot^oined with effeotion for 
what is known. All is union in an angelic mind. All heaven is united 
to its Divine Head, the Lord Jesus Christ. The marriage order reigna 
complete, and jov is the result. ''Thou shalt no more bo termed Forsa- 
ken ; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate ; bul thou shalt 
be called Hephzibah, and thy laud Beulah ; for the Lord delightoth in^ 
thee, and thy land shall bo married. "—Isa. Ixii 4. 

Not to have on a wedding garment, then, is not to have a doctrine which 
unfolds this glorious union of truth and love in religion, and in lieaveu. 
It is to be practically among those who say, and do not. It is to make a 
parade of our piety and profession, it may be, but to neglect that, without 
which piety is nothing, faith is nothing, doctrine is nothing, name is 
nothiuff ; that pure and holy love, which worketh, which hopeth, which 
believeth all things ; which, insight of aU the Christian virtues, is deserv- 
ing of the apostolic declaration. " And now abideth faith, hope, charitjr, 
these three, but the greatest of these is charity." 1 Corinthians, xiii, 
13. When we have taken for out* religion only that which relates to 
belief, and not that which concerns love and conduct, the heart un- 
checked and unchanged will be the home of selfishness and impurity ; 
and the time will come, either in this world or in the next, when there 
will issue from the unregenerate heart those virulent evils, which will 
paralyse every power of good, will bind the hand and foot, and plunge 
the spirit into the darkest abysses of folly. 

With these views of doctrines forming the clothing of the soul, we see 
at once the importance of ^^hose allusions to garments which are so fVe- 
quently met with in the old as well as the New Testamente When the 
prophet prediets the advent of the Lord into the world, and thus opening 
to mankind the glorious doctrines of Christianity, instead of the miserable 
shreds of Jewish tradition, he says, "Awake; awake,- put on thy strength O 
Zion ; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city ; fur 
henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the 
unclean."— Is, lii 1. Again, in that well-known prophecy which begins, 
" The Spirit of the Lord is upon me ; because the Lord hath anointed me 
to preach good tidings unto the meek ; he hath sent me to bind up the 
broKenhearted ;" the prophet continues to unfold the gracious purpose of 
Jehovah in the flesh ; "To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to 
give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the .garment 
of praise for the spirit of heaviness ; that they might be called trees of 
righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that Ue might be glorified./— Is. 
1x1.3. Here the doctrine of the love of God manifest in the flesh, is ma- 
nifestly and righteously called " a garment of praise." What could more 
powerfully induce the soul to clothe itself with praise than the perception 
that our Saviour is our Heavenly Father, that the High and Loftv One 
who inhabitcth eternity had for our sakes condescended to appear fn the 
extreme of His vast domains, the skin of the universe as it were, and by 
assuming and maiutaining a connection with the outer universe, he be- 
came First and Last in Himself, and from Himself fills, sustains, and 
succours all. 

When the Lord Jesus said, "Thou hast a few names even in Sardis, 
which have not defiled their garments : and they shall walk with me in 
white, for they are worthy ; He thct o vercoraeth the same shall be cloth- 
ed in white raiment," he is evidently describing the condition of those who 
have not stained their professior of the Christian doctrine with impurity 
of life ; they have not aeflled their garmonta now, and in eternity their 
views would be still purer, they should walk with Him in white. Doc- 
trines in harmony with purest truth, are white raiment wherewith we 
may be clothed. 

The New Dispensation of religion which in the fulness of time would be 
introduced from heaven among men, is represented as coming down " asa 
bride adorned for her husband. ' And, by this language, we are assured, 
no doubt> not only that this church would regard the Lord Jesus Christ, 
the Divine Lamb, as the only object of her supreme love, her husband, 
))\xt that her doctrines would be beyond all precedent, beautiful. SUo 



■■i|| 
■ iiiil 



n 



ii;'t?i 



42 



▲PPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' QUIDS. 



would b« Adorned for her husband. Such a glorloas gystem would she 
havtf of celestial truth,— such disolosures of heavenly order,— such di'^co- 
venes of the divine laws as existent in the soul ; in the regenerate life ; 
in the heavenly w>rld ; in the spiritual sense of the Uoly Word ; in fact, 
on all subjects of Divine Wisdom, that to the trulv devout and thought* 
fill spirit, she would truly be " adorned as abride for her husband." 

There Is an interesting intimation of the character of true heavenly 
jOlothing in Psalm xlv. "The king's daughter is all glorious within : her 
clothing is of wrought gold. She shall be brought unto the king in rai- 
ment of needlework [verses 13, 14] where the character of true celestial 
doctrine is declared to be the gold of love, wrought into system,— love 
wrought out. The king's daut^nt^r, all such as, animated by pure affec- 
tious for truth derived from tbe King of kings, are desirous of graces of 
the heart and mind, which ar? worth more than the wealth of kingdoms. 
Tney become glorious withio, andalltbeir views of doctrine are love as 
it were s^ieaking, and decla ing its true nature. With them, God is 
Inve, heaven is love, levels the fulfilling of the law, love keeps the com- 
mandments, the Word truly understood, is tho revelation of love. Their 
whole doctrine, like the street of the hdly city, is of pure gold, f'»i-med by 
the Rjpiritual embroidery of an intellect which spiritually discerns the har- 
monious relations of everlasting things. The Word supplies the raw mate- 
rial, line upon line, and precept upon precept. The rational powers 
weave them into a beautifhl system, and prepare them to be worn. And 
when the Judgment, under the impulse or a numble determination to live 
for heaven, adapts these doctrines to its own especial states and require- 
ments, the Christian is equipped in the garments of salvation. " Ue is 
glorious within, and his clothing is of wrought gold." 

And here, we would strongly guard against one of the most dangerous 
delusions which has crept into nominal Christianity; the idea that we are 
saved by tLo Infinite puritv of Christ's righteousness being imparted to 
ua, and not b} actual, practical righteousness. It is true, our righteouS'* 
ness is derived from the Lord, " their righteousness is of me, saith the 
Lord."— Isa. liv. 17. But no righteousness will be Imputed to us, which 
has not been im.parted to us. His spirit will be imputed to us, so far as we 
receive it, but no farther. God is a God of truth, and never imputes to 
any one what he does not possess. " He that doeth righteousness, is 
righteous."— 1 John ill. 7. The merit of divine riarhteousness in salvation, 
is as incommunicable as the merit of creation, 'fbc robe of the Saviour's 
perfections, has a name on it, which no man knows but He Himself. (Rev. 
xix. 16). And, vet, numbers neglect to acquire the white robe, or the 
wrought gold, of imparted truth and love, under the vain idea that the 

girsouai perfections of our Lord will bo imputed to them. Our food is 
om Him, but if instaad of eating that which Ho now provides, we were 
to attempt to live by imputing that which he ate in the days of His flesh, 
wo should die of starvation. So, if instead of receiving, and applying to 
ourselves the living streams of His righteousness by earnest prayer and 
earnest practice, we expect His merits to be imputed to us. as righteous- 
ness, so that although wo are really wicked, we chali be accounted good ! 
although really polluted, we shall be accounted clean ; we shall be naked 
and helpless, in the day '^hon he makes up his jewels. No doubt, tho 
Lord lived on earth for our sake^^ufTered for our sakes, died for our sakes, 
"ose again fox- oursakcc, mac!c His Humanity righteousness embodied, 
tor our sakes. " For their sakeb, I sanctify myselr," he a&iC, " that they 
may be sanotlfled by the truth. ■'— John xvii. 19. AH wa^ done for us to 
enable us to bo sanctified, but not to be pi:t down to our account When 
our account is made up we shall find the rule to be, " They that have done 
good shall come forth to the resurrection of life, and they that have done 
evil to the resurrection of condemnation." John v. 29. He comes quickly 
to give to every man as Ma t<;orA; shall be (Rev. xxii. 12). Blessed shall 
we DO, if we w^tch and keep our garments, made white by His truth, and 
thus are rt^adv to follow our Divine Leader in the realms of peace, ador- 
ing, in humble love, those infinite perfections which make his fkce to 
shine like the sun, and His raiment wnite as the light [Matt. xvii. 2]. We 
are, then, to speak to the Israelites, who are typi&d by those of our text 
the spiritual Israelites, who are as our Lord said, Israelites indeed, and 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



43 



say first that they clothe tbemselTes with genuine dootrinea of dlTine 
truth, with the garments of salvation, and that they especially make 
them fringes in the borders of their garments. After we have meditated 
upon the doctrines of religion, and seen their fitness to our own states of 
mind and heart, thus clothed ourselves in them ; thb next part of our duty 
is to bring them into life. This is a most important point. Many th^.re are, 
who put on religion as a dress for the head, and even also ibr the breast, 
but do not bring it down to the feet. But we are to make a border for 
our garments, and the border must be a fHnge. The distinctive feature 
ofaiHnge is, that the material of which it is composed is divided into 
small portions, firmly united at the upper part, but nanging with separate 
forms of beauty at the lo wer. The idea suggested by this is, that religion 
must be emploved in all the small affairs of daily lite, as well as on great 
occasions, the loweat part of our spiritual dress must be a f i inge. Our 
Lord declared the same important truth when he said, -' He that is faith- 
ihl in that which is least, is faithful also in much : and he that is unjust in 
the least, is ui^ust bIso in much."— Luke xvi., 10. 

This practical admonition is of the very highest consequence. One of 
the most serious errors of life is that our roligion is only to be brought out 
on grand occations, as some think, or on Sundays, as others practically 
shew, they suppose. The only way in which we make the truths of reli> 
gion really ours, is to infuse their spirit and tone into all our little acts in 
our daily conduct. Life is made up of little things. One circumstance 
follows another, one act comes after another, each one small of itself, but 
the whole forming the tissue of our entire outward existeuce. Our whole 

Journey is made step by step. There are no great swoops made. By little and 
ittle, we drive out our evils ■ and by little and little, we introduce the 
Brinciples o^ wisdom and goodness into the whole texture of our conduct. 
>y this, we must not be mlaunderstoo ' to mean, that we are not to subject 
the whole man to the government of ueavenly laws, but only that we are 
to do it in each circumstance as it oomes to hand, and to do it now, not 
to wait tor great occasions. Let the border o^ your garment be a fringe. 

Many, very many, have no objection to the heaaor the breast being 
in the churchj but the feet they imagine may be quite otherwise engaged. 
But the true disciple of our Saviour adopts the language of the Fsahniat, 
" Our teet shall ctand within thy gates, O Jerusalem."— Ps. oxxii. 2. He 
is particularly wr^tchful over hie foot, or his daily practice. If in his 
moments of weakne?r he wavers, he looks up to the Saviour, the Source of 
strength, and prays, " Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps 
slip not.' — Ps. xvli. 6. Often will ne have to confess, " But as ior me, 
my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped."— Ps. Ixxiii. 
2. Y et will he find invisible hands have borne him up, for his ever-watch- 
fill Father has given his angels charge concerning him,)est he dash his feet 
against a stone.— Ps. xci. 11, 12. And again, and again will he find 
occasion grateftilly to exclaim, " O bless our God, ye people, aid make the 
voice of nis prai»3 to be heard : who holdeth our soul in life, and 
suffbretl-. not our feet to be moved."— Ps. Ixvi. 8, 9. If, like Peter, at 
first, he "ainks it quite beneath his Master's dignity to purify the lower 
concerns of life, and declares. Thou shalt never wash my feet, when he is 
better informed, and hears the Saviour's words, " if 1 wash thee not, thou 
hast no prrt in me," he, with an entire spirit of self-devotion, exclaims, 
"Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head."— John 
xiii. 9. 

This religioii of daily life is the grand necossity of the world. Without 
that, our sabbath worship is but an organized hypocrisy. We should 
pray, that we may be ablo to practise., not to substitute prayer for prac- 
tice. Beautiful as is the devout worship ofthc sanctuary, sweet as is the 
devotional piety, and soul-exalting as arc hymns of gratitude ; they are 
opiv ttie unsubstantial beauty of a drcau, unless they are brought down 
to give direction, purity, and strength to <'!aily life. Let there then be a 
fi'iiige for the borders of your gaimentc, throughout all your generatiuns. 

It is for want of this descent of religion into daily life, that its blessings 

are often very faintly felt. The sweetness of the knowledge of the Lord Is 

only experienced when religion has become a living hourly series of 

Yirtues witii us, It is said of the disciples wbo were going to £mmau^ 



it 

i 






11 



44 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' QUIDE. 



though the Lord walked with them, and they felt the holy glow of his 

{tresenoe when he talked with them on the way, he only became known to 
hem in" the breaking of the bread." It is so with HI disciples in all ages. 
As long as the " bread of lilb " is received in a mass, and remains thus, the 
blessing of ooi^unction with the Divine Being is unknown. He is with 
them, but as a stranger. But lot them Dreak *ne bread : let them at home 
and abroad, in the counting*hou8e aad on change, in the workshop and 
at market, in their pleasures and in all their familv duties, break the 
bread of heaven, and apply it to every work and word, and they will then 
know the Lord. " Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the Lord: 
Uis going forth is prepared as the morning, and He shall come unto us as 
the rain; as the latter and former rain upon the earth." 
O, then let our religion not be like a Sunday dress, put on only for 

garade on state occasions, and put off when the occasion has passed by, 
ut like a simple daily robe, whose usefulness is seen of all, and whose 
fringe goes all around the hem of our garment, so that it extends over 
the whole circle of our outward life. 

We are, however, not only commanded to have a fringe to our garments, 
but to have upon the fringe a ribband of blue. And this leads us to consi- 
der the correspondence of colors. Natural colors we know originate in 
natural light. They are the separation of the beauties which are bound up 
in tno sunbeam, and their reflection to the human eye. There is a trinity 
of fundamental colors, red, blue, and yellow. From the blending of 
tbe.-:e in varied proportions all others are made. Blue and yellow form 
green. 

Bearing in mind that the Lord is the Sun of the eternal world, and that 
essential ti^ith shines as a spiritual light from Him, the three essential 
colors into which light divides itself, will represent the three essential 
features of divine truth, in its application to man. There are truths of 
love, which apply to our affections, truths of faith which apply to 
thoughts, and truths of lite. Red, the colour of fire, is the symbol of the 
truths of love, the Are of the soul. Blue, the colour of the azure depths 
of the sky, is symbolic of the de^ things of the spirit of God, on which 
faith delights to gaze. Yellow, is the hue of trutn which applies to out- 
ward life, and in combination with bluo it makes green, which corresponds 
to truth in the letter of the Word, made simple to the common eye of 
mankind. 

Blue gives a sense of clearness and depth, in which it surpasses all 
other hues. When we gaze into the blue depths of the sky, far above the 
changes of the clouds, their tranquil grandeur, arching in peaceful majesty 
far over the turmoils of the world, strikingly images those depths of 
heavenly wisdom from which the good man draws strength and peace. 

" Though round his breast the rolling clouds are spread, 
Eternal sunshines settles on his head." 

Blue, then, is the colour which represents the spirit of the Holy Word, 
the depths of heavenly wisdom. 

There is, however, cold blue, as it has more of white in it, and warm 
blue, as it derives a certain hue from red. There has also been some diffi- 
culty in determining the exact shade meant by Techeleth, the Hebrew 
name for this colour. But from a xull consideration of the subject we are 
satisfied it was the name for blues tinged with red, from violet to purple. 
And this v^ry strikingly brings out the divine lesson by correspondence. 
While the Dlue indicates that in our demeanour or in life we should be 
correct, in harmony with the spirit of truth, the red htte indicates that all 
our truth K>ugbt to be softened, and warmed by love, " Speak the truth 
in(ove," said the apostle, and to remind them of this duty, God com- 
manded the ribband Of warm blue to be worn Upon the fnnge of their 
garments, by the sons of Israel. 

Truth wi*^hout love Is cold, hard, and unpitying, and therefore repulsive. 
Truth with anger is scalding hot, and like medicine, impossible to be 
t-.ikon, useless or injurious; but truth coming from a loving heart, firm, but 
go 'I tie, and sweet like the warm sunbeam, is welcome to all. 

The loving blue of the eye, which reveals the sweet impulses of a soft 






APPENDIX TO THE ABTIZANS' QUIDS. 



45 



low of hia 
I known to 
in all ages. 
ts thus, the 
He is -witti 
im at home 
kshop and 
break the 
jr will then 
r the Lord; 
unto us as 

•n only for 

I parsed by, 

and whose 

ctends over 

ir garments, 
us to oonsi- 
originate in 
re bound up 
> is a trinity 
blending ot 
yellow form 

•Id, and that 
ree essential 
'ee essential 
ire truths of 
5h apply to 
rmbol of the 
azure depths 
d, on which 
plies to out- 
corresponds 
mon eye of 

jurpasses all 
ir above the 
leful majesty 
se depths of 
[d peaoe. 



loly Word, 

and warm 
In some diffi- 
Ithe Hebrew 
pject we are 
let to purple. 
Rspondence. 
|e should be 
kates that all 
»k the truth 
, God com- 
Inge of their 

Ire repulsive, 
^sible to be 
[rt, firm, but 

33 of a soft 



»nd gentle heart, 10 like the eolor of the Hbbaiid, befblfe tia; It tfbeakfl of 
the purity and the warmth of the spirit withto. Leit thefe, then, he upon 
all your demeanour this color ot heavenly love. 

Seen in this view we have now arrived at, thla comtaandment increasei 
in practical importance the more we contemplate it. Perhaps the neglect 
of ft is the cause of more failures in the delivery of trell-meant advice, 
than any other oirounutance. We proceed to correct WlUi the rough, 
stern hand of truth alone, and w? encouUter resistance. We are sure we 
are right, and we proceed to reproach and invectlVe. Quarrels ensue, 
Instead of amendment. We brood over our failure, and Wonder at the 
perversity of mankindi not reflecting that we have not put on the fringe 
upon our garment, the ribband of heavenly blue. 

" be kind to each other, 
The night's coming en, 
When friend and when brother, 
Perhance may be gone." 

Kothing can be farther from the spirit of heaven, than a stem, harsh, 
vindictive utterance of truth. We should ever remember that we can 
ourselves only be assisted by one who maniftots to us a spirit of kindness 
in his counsel. To an assulant we close up. We cannot bear our Atults 
to be exposed by one who does it in a spint of eicultation and insolence. 
But we love the friendly hand which has a brother's touch. We delight to 
see the dress not Btarehed with prudery, but having up6n all its fi*inge the 
ribband of heaven's own blue. 

With this bi<^ed tone, how often would homes be hftppy which are 
f^e^uently torn with dissension. A brother will be gentle from courtesy 
io others, but is sulky or sharp to his own. A sister, from politeness, 
will be brilliant and fascinating to visitors, but often fails to wear the bliie 
ribband to those of her own fireside. Oh, if the Christian ministry has 
one object which more than another should be its constant aim, it should 
be to contribute to the haoplness of home, that sacred Oentre of all that is 
elevating, strengthening,' purifying, and ennobling among men. And 
nothing will be a truer source of all these blessings than to speak to 
brothers and sisters, and say, in all your intercourse With each other, let 
the spirit of religion be visible. In each small act of daily intercourse 
with each other, let there be a fringe from your religion within, and on the 
fringe let the truth of intelligence be blended with the kindness of real 
love. You were created to learn to be fellow angels in the house. Tou 
were placed to walk together on your path to heaven, to give an assisting 
hand when a weak one stumbles, to exhort the slothful, to cheer the 
weary, to warn against danger's path and dangerous foes, to encourage 
the struggling, to rejoice together when you gam a glorious prospect, to 
animate each other to your daily progress, and often to taste by anticipa- 
tion the triumph you will have when all the dangers of life are gone by, 
and heaven is forever your home. Remember the cha' » ". ^nhtohis 
brethren, " See that ye fall not out by the way." Ir . o »; ,/ r.-"! /our 
words, let there be seen upon all your fringe, the ri:i>.. '. -. 'A hea.^nly 
blue. 

We come, now, to a still dearer connection, which would often be more 
blest if the spirit of this divine command were more faithfully carried out. 

In that most sacred of all human ties, the marriage union, it is of the 
highest importance that the blue ribband should appear in all the 
demeanor of husband and wife. Tet, sometimes the domestic hearth is 
less tender and happy than it might be, for want of the gentle amenities 
of truth spoken in love. When tnat mysterious sympathy which attracts 
congenial souls to each other, first induces ardent thought in the young 
lovers, the earnestness of affection presents to both only what is amiable 
and agreeable. Each finds u magnifier of the excellencHS of the other, and 
ho imperfection can bo seen. And, when the hopes of both are crowned 
by possession, a loag vista of happiness is beheld, throngad with an endless 
succession of joys and hlesaings. Yet both parties have failings. The per- 
fection faTioy has painted, will, in many respects, be found to be over- 
drawn, Ttu) bjoora of outward beauty will wear off, PoesesBion wiU 



i 



i 



46 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



deprive many attractions of the exaggerated value for which they were 
chiefly Indebted to passion. Both are probably youug, both impertect, 
both are human. Hence, there come discoveries of fkults and shortcom- 
injijs which belong to us all, but which have been before unseen. And 
now is the opportunity for the manifestation of real love, in having 
patience with tne loved one. If they have loved wisely, the virtues of 
each other, and that mutual adaptation of feeling, taste, and character 
which has drawn their souls to desire a union impossible with any one 
else, have been the chief attractions ; and for their sakes, they can well 
afford to bear with some '^o/.^cts. Instead of being astonished to find that 
the mere mortals •w(<i ha/e xr arried have some of the fidlings of our fallen 
race, we should tixi^W the opportunities of showing, that ours has 

not been the selli , ^sl . Thich desires only its own gratification, but 
rather the holy aflV ' >n ti .a forgetfUI of self, seeks chiefly the happinens 
of those we love. To .'odist, fc''l oe assisted, to form angelic characters in 
each other, these are the cL. ' objects for which marriage has been 
Instituted. And to accomplish these ends, wo must have a faithful, but 
a ftiendly eye for the imperfections of each other. We should scarcely 
notice the unpleasant effect of faults in relation to our personal gratlflca* 
tion, but be quieksighted to perceive the injury they inflict upon the doer. 
" Who is so blind as he that is perfect," says the prophet, in reference 
to that Divine Mercy which sees not our sins so far as they are directed 
against Him, and condemns them, only as they are fountains of misery to 
ourselves. 

Our Lord washed His disciples' feet, and said, " As I have washed your 
feet, so must ye wash one another's feet." And if to assist each other, to 
remove imperfections from our conduct, which is spiritually washing one 
another's reet, is a duty we owe to our ordinary Christian ftiends, how 
much more is it a duty to assist in removing the spots which soil the 
characters of those we nave undertaken to love and to cherish. Yet what 
tender care this duty needs. The true wife, or husband, cannot bear to 
think that *he deeply-prized love of the other is being lost. Noticing a 
fault rudely, betrays the appearance of dislike, and wounds deeply. 
Sometimes, self-love will creep in between married partners, and the 
strugtrle for power will take the appearance of opposition to faults. Then 
lacerated feelings are poured forth in bitter expressions. Then, quarrels 
arise, long animosities are inaugurated, which take Irom home its sweet- 
ness, ban»h all those tender endearments, those happy confidences, those 
heart-felt reliances on each other, those fireside pleasures which consti- 
tute earth's nearest likeness to heaven. Then oppositions are engendered, 
recriminations are heard, hateful everywhere, but intolerable from those 
we love. Distrusts, fears, and anxieties intrude, where only confidence 
should reign, and home becomes the saddest abode of misery. All this 
has happened, will happen, it we are not careful, in our married life 
especially, to speak the truth in love. There, above all, the blue ribband 
should be seen upon our garments. Sweetness in our goodness and 
tenderness in our truth, should be the incessant law of marned partners to 
each other. A fearfulness of injuring the feelings of the other : A friend- 
ly, kindly touch, when any mental sore requires attention : A determina- 
tion to do nothing, which does not manifest a constant affection : A 
deference to each other's wishes : A manifest active effort to promote the 
other's happiness ; Thesse are the dispositions which can alone preserve 
and complete that choicest of all Divine Blessings— genuine conjugal love. 

When misunderstanding has been sustained, and bruised alfections 
manifest how deeply they are hurt,(their pain should not be treated lightly. 
He would be thought cruel who trampled on the inflamed foot of another, 
yet the anguished heart is sometimes tortured with stinging words of 
bitterest taunt and reproach, under the delusion that it is necessary to 
blame where foult has been committed. The first necessity is to bring 
ourselves into a state ot'real kindness and affection ; then ascertain if the 
supposed fault be as real as it appeared. If so, to ask for Him who views 
us all from kindness, for wisdom, first pure, then peaceable, to speak the 
truth in love. While our ribband is blue, to take care that it is soft and 
warm. How desirable this is In our intercourse with others ! In our 
intercourse with those who are to form with ua the happiaess of heai^t aud 
^owe, it Is indispensable, 



APPENDIX TO THE ABTIZANs' QUIDE. 



47 



And yet it is not at all uncommon for unwise married partners so flir to 
neglect this divine commandment as to be all sinlles to others, and to 
reserve their coldness for those whom they should most fondly cherish. 
The husband open, smiling, and sedulously polite to any other lady, will 
be reserved, negligent, uncourteous, and unkind to the heart which snould 
be to him above all price. The wife, all-radiant with smiles to others, 
attentive to their minutest wishes or comforts, will not trouble herself to 
retain or reffain the afibotions of that one, on whom all her real happiness 
depends. The gentle, conciliating word, for which her husband's neart, 
beneath a firm exterior, is longing, she will not speak. The one she won 
by gentleness, and grace, and all the feminine virtues.she will not preserve 
by growing in those virtues, but rudely repels. And the heart whose 
faintest throb she once valued beyond all eartnly riches, she rudely throws 
away. 

O married partners, tenants of the same home, who should be all in all 
to each uther, for time and for eternity, never neglect in your sentiments, 
your spirit, your acts, and your words to each other, to let there be visible 
on all the manifestations of character with which your life's dress is 
fringed, the truth and the love of celestial blue. O wife, matron, mother, 
remember your strength is in tenderness. Never shock the feelings of 
your husband by haiun, bitter, unwomanly exasperations. Your peculiar 
province is at home ; let it be ever preserved sacred to domestic peace, by 
a meek and quiet spirit. So you will be your husband's dearest trust, and, 
chief consoler ; your children's constant reftige ; and when you have 
passed beyond the shades of time, the star or fond remembrance th9' 
shines high above the cares of earth, and lures them still to heaven. 

O husband, O father, on whom the wife's fond heart desires to lean, let 
no harsh expression drive her thence. A yearning of unspeakable tender- 
ness keeps you within her presence, mentally, wherover you may be fi-om 
morn to oewy eve. Ana, when you return, she expects the friendly 
greeting ; let her not be disappointed. Be assured her love would encircle 
you, if you were driven from the conunon ranks of men ; her heart would 
be the truest pillow for your aching head. Her grace, her happiness, is 
the worthiest ornament for you now. Your strength is cold, repulaiye, 
and forbidding, uutil it is combined and chastened oy the gentleness and 
Bweetuess of your faithful, loving wife. Let her be cheered, then, to see 
upon I he fringe of your garments, the clearness and the warmth of true 
celestial blue. 

It is equally important that the firmness and clearness of truth, blended 
with the warmth and gentleness of love, should be visible in all our inter- 
course with our children. Firmness, without gentleness and cheerfulness 
is painful and repulsive to children, and they shun the circle of its influ- 
ence as mur^h as possible. Softness, without firmness, strengthens their 
hankerings or aelnsh indulgeuces, and increases those disorderly demands 
which at length must be restrained with rigor, a hundred-fold more pain- 
ful, or they must sink in ruin. Children ook for just direction, and their 
ser^^ of justice leads them readily to acquiesce in what is right when it 
comes from lips they love. Only >-^t the true blue ribband be seen by your 
children always, and they will follow where you lead, and your counsel 
will be laws they will revere in your absence as well as in your presence ; 
and when the music ot your loved voice will be heard by them no more, 
its recollections within will be prized as the tones and the wisdom of those 
dearest and best-beloved ones who piloted them safely in the early walks 
of life, and still have only gone before them, and are waiting to welcome 
them on the purer plains ofneaven. 

This attenuon to the very externals of the Christian life is fraught with 
blessing every way. li: is only thus, in fact, we can obtain strength to be 
healed of our spiritual diseases, and only thus we can exhibit the worth of 
our principles to others. When the poor woman who- had spent her all 
upon helpless physicians for twelve years came to Jesus, she said within 
herself: If I touch but the hem J nis garment, I shall be made whole, 
and as soon as sh^ did so, virtue went out, and sh^ was healed. 

In the hem of the vesture of Divine Truth, or in other words, in the 
literal sense of the Word of God, the divine virtue is ever present for the 
meek and lowly, and when it is touched by trusting IoyC) that virtue yri^ 
^oout, 



I !l 



!i!!r: 



48 



APPBNDIX TO THl ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



Ttat^ i roplict Zeoharlah, Bpeaklng of the glorioaa ohuroh of the latter 
d:iy^> !''*> church which Is now unfolding ittielf amonnt \u, the New 
ileruaalem, declares, " Thus saith the Lord of hosts : lu these days it shall 
boruHtit pass, that ten men shall take hold out of all languages of all 
nations, even shall take hoiri ol the skirt of him that Is a Jew, saying 
•' We will go with you ; for we have het\rd that Goii is with you."— vlil. 
25. It Is religion In lifls that is observed by, and is attraotive to, good men. 
When it not only enlightens the hearl and rules the heart, out comes 
down to the skirts of the garment, infiising Justioo, kindness, and courtesy 
Into every act and every word, then it has an eloquence which will inspire 
many a woll-dispoKed heart to say: " We will go with you, for we have 
heard that God is with you. Let your good works, and your good words 
so Hhine before men, that they may glorify your Father which is in 
heaveu." 

While yon pay due and supreme attention to the inteilor principles nf 
love and faith, never forget the fringe. Let your religion come out. Be 
loving and tnithtUl In little things. Let your daily duties, and dally 
expressions unbosom in them the spirit of heaven in their entire round, 
and thus upon thefiinge let there be seen thic kibbamo or blub. 

EXFEBIENCE OF A SUN REPOETEB IN NEW YOKK. 
Slightly cUteredfrtm N, Y. Sun. 

A Sun wporter being desirous of finding out something definite regard^ 
ing the New Church doctrines, proceeded to No. 20, Cooper Institute, New 
York, and inquiring who was the head man of the denomination, a gentle- 
man [Hr. Thomas Hitchcock] answered: — 

There is no head man in our denomination ; that is to say, there is no 
one whose lead we fbllow without question. We all think tor ourselves, 
although, of course some are more lluniliar with the writings of Sweden- 
<borg than others. 

Reporter. Do you understand the doctrines F 

Mr. H, I do, I have studied them about twenty-one years. * 

Jteporter. Well, what are you Swedenborglans driving at? 

Air. H. We think we have got the true science of religious truth, and 
want to teach it to the world. 

Reporter. Science of religious truth I Do you mean to say there is any 
eolence in religious truth ? 

Mr. H. We mean to say, and we do say, that religious truth is as capable 
of Boientiflc arrangement and explanation as any other truth, and that we 
are able to give tnls scientiflo explanation. The New Church theology 
bears the same relation to all other theologies that the Copernican system of 
autronomy bears to the Ptolemaic, the Arabic, the Hindoo, and the 
Chinese systems of astronomy. Those systems of astronomy were 
based on the mistaken appearance of things, whereas Copernicus and 
his followers got at the realities. Just so other systems of theology are 
baseii on appearances^ while the New Church system is based on the real 
truth. 

Reporter. What do yon mean bv " appearances"? 

Mr. H. I mean the way that things appear to the senses. For example, 
the sun appears to rise and set, ana to go daily round the earth. The sky 
appears to come down to the earth aliaround, forming what we call the 
horizon. The earth appears to l>e stationary in the centre of our universe. 
The sun appears to be a small orb, not a millionth part as large as the 
earth ; the planets seem no bigger than marbles, and the fixed stars appear 
to be mere twinkling points. All these appearances are controverted 
by science, and the senses have to vield to reason. It is the same in 
spiritual' and religious matters, which abound with fiillacioasand mislead 
ing appearances, and these appearances have to be corrected, and in the 
New Church system of theology a'-e corrected by spiritual science. 

Reporter. That all sounds very well, in a general way; but let us get at 
something specific. What do you say for example to the doctrine of total 
depravity If I used to know a pious old lady, when I was a boy, who was 

strong on that doctrine, and who always closed ever^ argument on it(Q 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS^ OtTlDfi. 



^ 



r the latter 
I, the New 
lays it shall 
LageH of all 
lew, sayiuK 
you."— vlll. 
, Kood men. 
but oomect 
nd oourtesy 
will inspire 
for we have 
good words 
rbich is in 

>rinciplefl of 
ue out. Be 
>, and dailv 
utire round, 

LUB. 

OKK. 



Jnite regard- 
istltute, New 
Ion, a gentle- 

r, there is no 
for ourselves, 
s of Sweden- 



truth, and 

there is any 

is as capable 
and that we 
iCH theology 
can system of 
00, and the 
nomy were 
ernicus and 
theology are 
d on the real 



'or example, 
th. The sky 
t we call the 
mr universe, 
large as the 
^ stars appear 
pontrovertod 
the same in 
land mislead 
, and in the 
bieuce. 
Ilet us get at 
Irine of total 
?y, who was 
aeut oa X\\^ 



Bubject by saying, " Well, when too take avtar^ my total depravity, you 
take away all my religion," What do you say to that? 

Mr. H. Our doctrine as to that mattiT is, toat all human beings are bom 
with siuful inolinatiuns. (and of themselves are nothing but evil), but need 
nut commit sin uuIpsh they choose to do so, and arenot aooouutedgwUty of 
sin unless thev actually commit it 

Reporter. Then you hold that all children that die before they reach the 
ago of moral accountability go to heaven, no matter how wicked or 
t^athenish their parents mav be. 

Mr, H. We do most nnpuatically; it Is a monstrous e^ror to suppose 
otherwise. 

Reporter. But If no inflints whatever go to hell, what beooiaes of the 
doctrine of inlaut damnation T 

Mr. H. J'm sure I can't say, unless it goes where it would send the 
infants, as it certainly should. 

Reporter. But if the doctrine of total depravity is AOt true, what need 
have we ot a Saviour f 

Mr. H. To save us from our sinfhl inclinations, and from aotoal sin 
committed by every one personally. 

Reporter. Uow did He, or how does He do thatf 

Mr. H. It is not easy to tell off-hand how He does it. In <Mrder to 
explain it, it is necessary iu the first instance to explain our views of the 
intimate connection between this world and the spiritual world, includ- 
ing both Heaven and Hell. 

Reporter. That is Just what Iwant to get at, please go onf 

Mr. H. The spiritual world is not remote from this world, on some 
unknown planet, as is commonly supposed. It is right here, close to this 
world, and within it. When a good man lives a good life, he draws angels 
and good spirits, who inhabit the spiritual world, near him ; if he Uvea au 
evil life, he draws evil spirits and aevils around him. 

Reporter. What is the difference between agood spirit and an {uigel and 
an evil spirit and a devil t 

Mr.H. A good spirit is a good human being who has passed from this 
world, but who has not yet become an angel . An angel is a good humaa 
beinff who has been perf^ted in the spiritual worla up to the status of 
angelhood, and been thereby elevated into heaven. An evil spirit is a 
wicked human being who has passed from this world, but has not yet 
become a devil. A devil is a wicked human being, who having passed 
into the world of spirits, has blossomed into full blown devil hood, and 
gone to his home in hell. 

Reporter. You talk about the Wobld of Spirits, as though it were a 
a place to which good and bad spirits go in common, previous to tueir being * 
sent to heaven or hell. 

Mr. H, Yes, the world of spirits is an intermediate state between heaven 
and hell. It is where all go immediately after death, before we are finally 
arranged and disposed ofaccording to our real characters. ITow to come 
back to the spirits which a man draws about liim in this world by his life, 
and on which I must predicate my explanation of the work ot s^vation 
which the Saviour did for us; By the instrumentality of good spirits and 
angels, the Lord is always trying to save us from the machinations of 
evu spirits and devils. But when the human race is unspeak- 
ably wicked, as it was at the time of the Lord's appearance on earth, 
special efforts to this end are necessary. At the time of our Saviour's 
advent, the evil spirits and devils had got such a hold upon men as to take 
possession not only of their minds and hearts, but of their bodies also, as 
we read in the Gospels, and the instrumentality of angels and good spirits 
was not sufficient to resist them. Ttie Lord, thereforecame Himself aown 
to the plane of human life, and on that plane fought with his own Omnipo- 
tence au'ainst hell, audits allies, drove them back, and thus saved nj^an from 
destruction. 
Reporter. Do you mean that it was God Himself who did this? 
Mr. H. Yes, I do. There is but one God. The Son of God is the name 

given to His manifestation of Himself here on earth, and the Holy Spirit 

IS the holy influence that proceeds ftom Him. 

^ Reporter. What becomes ofthevioariousato&emeBt then? 



50 



APPENDIX TO THE ART1ZAN6* QUIDS. 



Mr, tt. The vioarlotii aCftaetn«nt, m exnoundml by old fHahioned the<v 
loKlans, is a miHconoeptluH' of tbe trutli, juHt as the I'toleinaio gystom of 
astronomy was a misoonoeption of a«troiiomical fkoU. It rettts upon the 
assumption that God was angry with His creatures and needed to be 
paolfleid, and would not be reconciled to the offenders until somo one had 
been adequately -punished for their offences. Uod'b alleged anger is only 
an appearance Induced by our guilty conscience. The truth is that God 
lores the sinner Just as much ao He lores the saint, and always seeks the 
sinner's good, for " His tender mercies are orer all His worlcs,'* extending 
eren to tne lowest bell. The infinite lore of our Hearenly Father Is such 
that He " malces His son to rise on the oril and on the good, and sondeth 
rain on the Just and on the uojust" and " Is kind to the unthankflil and tc 
the erll." To remore the appearance of anger, it U only necenHary for us 
to repent of our sins and turn to the Lord ; Just as, to oomo from nirjht to 
day, it Is necessary for the earth to turn, and not for the sun to cnange 
its bositlon. The sun shines on Just the same all the time, whether it Bo 
hidden by clouds or shut out from us by the earth'rf turning away frona It ; 
and so, too, does the Lord's lore shine on Juat the same alt the time, no 
matter how It may be obscured by tbe clouos of evil, or shut out from our 
hearts by our turning away from tbe lord. So you see that redemption 
was a delireranoc from the powers of hell, to enable us to turn again to 
OOD, and was not a delirerance ft-om the wrath of God, as the phrase is 
usuallr understood. The work which the Lord did in redemption was 
indeed riokrious. He did in our place what we could not do for ourselres, 
Atonement again, means reconciliation— or, as it is sometimes spelled 
at>one-ment, and It is we who are reconciled to God, and not God to us. 
He does not need any reconciling, but we do, because it is we who hare 
gone astray. It is we who must be brought back. To repeat our astrono- 
mical illustration, there is no change in God any more than there is in the 
sun ; it is the earth that must turn in order to receire the sun's heat and 
light. Sin is the great cloud that intercepts the heat and light, or the 
dlrine lore and wisdom, proceeding from the Sun of Righteousness, "Your 
iniquities hare separatea between you and your God, and your sins hare 
hid His face from you." 

Reporter. All the preachers say the same thing, that we must turn to 
the LORD and seek salration. Is your way of doing that different from 
theirs f 

Mr. H. I will not attempt to state their method, but will only tell you 
what ours is. Our way of turning to the Lord is to repent of one's sins, 
prar to the Lord for help, and abore all to keep the commandments. 

Renorter. That seems to be orthodox. I was brought up a Methodist, 
and that is just what they preached. There does not seem to be much 
practical dinbrence, after all, between you and the rest of tbe religious 
world. 

Mr. H. I sbonld be rery glad to beliere that that was so. The use of 
all religion is to make good men and women on earth, and angels in hea- 
ren;sofara8 the Methodist, Catholic, or Mahometan religion can do 
that, it has my hearty sympathy. Indeed Swedeuborg teaches that in 
the proridence of the Lord, believers of all forms of religion are sared 
if they only lead good lives, according to their religious precepts. 

Reporter. What is the advantage of your form of religion then orer 
others r 

JIfr H. The advantage consists in being free from the errors and mis- 
couceptious which embarrass and mislead belierers in other systems. 

Reporter. What errors and misconceptions do you refer tof 

Mr. H. That of God's being angry with us and demanding a rictim to 
appease his wrath* ibr example, and the consequent misconception of the 
real nature of the atonement, the trinity of three distinct persons, the 
doctrine that heaven and bell are arlritrarily given by tbe Lord, and are 
not the result of eternal laws, these aJid kindred errors following from 
them, puzzle and Confbse people's mindd and prevent them from doing as 
well as they would if they knew the truth. 

Reporter IS the Load <3oea -not Bend a man to hell, who sends him 
there r 

Mr B. He goes there of h!a OWA ftccord, and because he likes it better 
tban he Ukea any other place. 



APPfiNDlX TO THE ARTliZANS' OtlDE. 



51 



Reporter. It yon will onablo rao to comprchond that, and nee that It la 
true, you will ountribute niuoh to my peace ot miad. 

Mr. It. How HO? would it contribute to your peace of mind toaee that if 
you should over become aa inmate of one of tho^e loathsome hells of the 
fourth or sixth ward of New Turk, —say a negro danoe-houso,— it would 
bo because you had become so deffradod that you would go there, and live 
there, and make your lirlng by living there, £rom pure love for such » 

Reporter. The very idea makes my soul turn sick. 

Mr. H. Verv well, then how can it contribute to vou.- peace of mind 
to see and believe that if you go to hell from the world of sprits it wilt be 
because vou will have become so vile and loathsome in all the attributes of 
your spiritual nature that you will prefer the society of devils to that of 
angels, and the wickedness and corruption of hell to the purity and holi- 
ness of hoavon f 

Reporter. Oa reflection I do not think my poane of mind would be much 
re-enforced bv suoh a belief. But I want you to explain how people go 
flrbm the spiritual world to heaven or to hell. 

Mr. H. Before I do that, tell me what your idea of heaven is. 

Reporter. Heaven is the eternal home of the redeemed, It is the home of 
never ending rest, it it- a place of eternal happiness. 

Mr. H. Wnat makes heaven a place of happiness? 

Reporter. Why, God makes it so, of course, 

Mr. H. But how does he make it so ? In what does the happiness of 
heaven consist f 

Reporter. Why, in being happy, I suppose. And the redeemed are made 
happy by contemplating tne glories of their Kedc-mer ; by singing endless, 
praises to Him, by wearing golden crowns and robes of spotless white, and 
roaming those sweet fields which as the old hynin says, beyond the swelling 
flood stand dressed in living green. 

Mr. H. That Is to say, the happiness of heaven, according to your views, 
consists in what might be termed a never ending religious holiday with 
nothing to do except to sing praises to God, and feast on what you call 
hearemy delights? 

Reporter. Yes, that is about it. 

Mr. H. How would you like that here on earth? How would you like 
to stand in a temple or a garden ibr years, wearing a white robe, and 
with a gold crown on your head, and a gold harp in your hand, and with 
nothing to do but to sing psalms? Or to put it briefly, how would you 
dke to live in everlasting idleness here if you could. 

Reporter. It would be intolerable, of course. It would kill me or driv* 
me crazy. 

Mr. H. Exactly, just as it has killed or driven mad many- a man who, 
having amassed wealth, and foolishly imagined that it would be heaven on 
earth to live in splendor and idleness, has supplied himself with a luxurious 
home, and quit business to enjoy it. Does not every such man find out his 
mistake ? 

Reporter. Yes, I went up t<^ Connecticut last year and interviewed one 
of these very men. He hud i a earthly paradise, but the devil was in it 
in the shape of idleness, and tu ' poor ricn old man told me ha was going 
to start an orphan asylum, and run it himself, just to have enough to do 
to keep him from going crazy or ( ommitting suicide. 

3fr. J7. You havo hit it exactly. Activity is a law of life. Idleness leads 
to stagnation, and stagnation is death. Every man must be active. A 
good man wants to be all the time doing something useful, an evil man 
wants to be all the time doing somethlug harmful. The old gentleman 
that you interviewed in Connecticut, being a good-hearted man, his 
irrepi-»ssible craving for activity burst out in a charitable direction and he 
founded an orphan asylum. If he had been a bad hearted mau his activity 
would have taken an evil direction. In the spiritual world every one h<.B 
the same passions and desires as here. The good spirits seek to be useful aim 
the bad spirits seek to gratify their evil dispositions. The same laws 
govern the coalescence of the inhabitants or the world of spirits into 
societies or communities which govern the same thing here. In this world 
the Ticioas seek out and consort with the vioioos and the good consort with 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GTJlDfi* 



the good. Take the people who arrive in this city, for example, on any giveil 
Saturday ui^ht and habbatli morning from all parts of the country. They 
are here relieved Irom the conventiunal restraint which keeps them in 
order at home, and every one is free to gratify his appetites at his will. 
You understand such thi'sgs, and very well know that many of those per- 
sons who, if at home on that Sabbath would go to church, and exhibit a 
deal of hypocritical piety, will go to the haunts of vice in this city, and 
scoff at all religion, and wallow in wickedness. Every one of them who 
loves the company of the vicious, will seek out vicious companions, and go 
where he will enjoy himself most. On the other hand, those who really 
love the Lord, and in their very hearts want to do the right thing wherever 
they are, will seek out some church n that Sabbath, or will in some way 
show out and act out the love for the Lokd and his people which domi- 
nates their lives. So, when peoplo arrivo in the spiritual world where all 
coaveutioual restraints arj removed, :very one acts out his real nature. 
The wicked gradually sort themselves out from the gcfod, and gravitat^^ by 
choice to the bells. A hell is simply a society in which wickedness holds 
entire sway, and the worse the wickedness the worse the hell. 

Reporter. But how about the punishment for sin ? Is not hell a place of 
torment ? and if it is, why do even the wicked like to go there ? 

Mr. H. Why do the wicked go from choice into the hells of this world, 
and voluntarily accept the loss, disgrace, ruin, disease, sufTering, and 
death, which come of going there ? People are the same in the world of 
spirits that they are here ; that is to say, they are human beings. Suppose 
you and I were to be struck dead this momont, and pass into the spirftual 
world. You would be you, wouldn't you, and 1 would be I f We should 
have the same spiritual natures which we have now, you would like there 
what you like here ; and it would be the same with me. If we really love 
God and our neighbour here and now, we should love God and our 
neighbour there and then. If we love what is pure and v holy here we 
should love what is pure and holy there. But if we really in our hearts 
love self, and the world, and evil and wickedness here, we should love the 
same there, no matter what we may jpretend to love hero. And loving 
wickedness we should go among the wicked, because we should prefer to 
do BO. And being among the wicked, we should, of course, have a wicked 
and unhappy time of it, and grow worse and worse, and become very 
devils, and be tormented by our own burning passions and by our fellow 
devils, and suffer unspeakable anguish ; and vet we would prefer that 
devilish state to heaven, just as the human devils in this world prefer their 
horrible life surroundings to the society of good christians. 

Reporter. I understand how it must naturally be as you say; but still I 
do not see where the punishment which God innictQ on sinners for the sins 
they committed in this world comes in. 

Mr. II. T.*ie Lord does not punish j)eople hereafter for deeds done in 
the body. " Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." In the Lord's 
dealings with His creatures there is no such thing as punishment, in the 
sense in which that word is generally used, but only philosophical conse- 
quences. If you take hold of hot iron, it burns you. The burning is not 
a punishment, arbitrarily inflicted, but only a natural consequence. If a 
man eats or drinks any thing poisonous or hnrtfal, the Inevitable conse- 
quences follows, and his body is injured, or perhaps his life sacrificed. So, 
too, if a roan commits sin, his sorul is injured, as a spiritual conseqitencc; 
and by continuing in sin, he comes to love it, and his soul gets such an 
appetite for it that ho continues sinniug in the world of spirits, and grows 
in wickedness, and finally goes to hell, as a spiritual consequence of his 
sins, just as a drunkard finally goes to a drunkard's grave not as a punish- 
ment arbitrarily imposed upon him for his ofitencc. but as fl phyBioiogical 
consequence of his excessive indulgence in strong drink^ 

Reporter. Do men go to heave i on the same pTiiiClpIes? 

Mr. H. Precisely. By cultivating daring this liife love to the Lord and 
to the neighbour, agood man, with the Lord's help, Requires the habit oi' 
enjoying the exercise of his good affections and in the other life seeks tlie 
society of companions of a like character. It is easily seen that a commu- 
nity of people all loving and obeying the Loiuo, and all lovingoTie another 
and trying to do the greatest possible good to one another, must mako « 
beaven wherever they may be. 



Al?i»ENDiX'TO_ THE_ ARTIZANs'_ GUIDE. 



63 



Heporter. What chance 'is there for doing good to your neighbours in 
heaven? Doesn?t the Lobd give yourneighboun all they want there with- 
out your help? 

Mr. H. Ue does not do it there any more than he does it here, you must 
remember that our happiness comes through the right use of the focultiod 
which the Lord has bestowed on us. Tho Lokd works by Instrumentali- 
ties in heaven the same as he does here. For example, ne gives us the 
relation between husband and wife, of parent and cnild, of teacher and 
scholar, to bring into activity and to gratify our deepest and tendere^t 
a^^'^p.tions, and it is only in this way— that is, by the exercise of onr 
affectioi 8— that we can get any development. 

Reporter. Do you mean to say that there are the relations of husbands 
and wives, parents and children, and teachers and scholars in heaven? 

Atr. H. I do. Natural death has no power to effect a permanent separa- 
tion between a husband and wife who have tenderly loved each other iii 
the world and at the same time were grounded in sincere love to God. 
There are husbands and wives in heaven as there are on this oarth ; and 
though no children are born there yet tho children who aie in this world, 
and who all go to heaven have to be brought up and educated to adult 
age; so, too the ignorant good people among Cnristians and the good 
among the heathen, who ail go to heaven, have to be instructed there. 
And in fact what do the wisest of us know in comparison with the 
angels who have been in heaven for thousands of years? As arrivals 
there are incessant, there is never any cessation of the work of instruction. 

ence thpre is the exercise of the parental oiSce, and the relation of 
teacher tnd scholar. Did it ever occur to you to imagine what has be- 
come of thu myriads of infants that have died and gone into the world of 
spirits. Do you suppose that infants that died five tiiousand years ago are 
kept bottled up somewhere as infants still ? Are all the ipfaats that have 
died, andthatare dying.and that will hereafter die, to be kept for agea upon 
ages in an infantine state, and then be finally judged as infants, and sent 
to their doom as infants, and kept as infants,— myriads of them not one 
hour old — throughout eternity? Do you suppose there is to be any such 
wa'^te of immortal material as that? Is it not more reasonable to suppose 
that the Lokd in the exercise of His infinite love and wisdom, has made 

F (revision for their care, and comfort, and instruction? It would be 
ustly considered an act of atrocious cruelty to send countless infants off 
t > some distant land, without making any provision for their welfare 
When they should arrive at their destination. And is there any reasonable 
r( l.gious being on earth who would dare to imagine that the LoRi> has not 
made ample provision for the welfare of all His little ones that go in their 
helplessness to the unseen land? 

Reporter. All the mothers will be apt to accept your doctrine as to the 
fate of infants in the other life. It looks reasonable. But if Swedenborg's 
viows are correct, it strikes me that a great many good Christians are fore- 
doomed to disappointment, and will not find the heaven they longed 
lor. 

Mr. II. There you are mistaken. Swedenborg expressly says, that every 

food person, on his first arrival in the world of spirits, finds exactly the 
eaven he believes in. 
Reporter. "Why is that ? 

Mr. H. To take the nonsense out of him. When people Imagine that 
hfjavenly happiness consists in endlass worship, or singing, or sitting on 
beds of flowers, or roaming in paradisaical gardens, or feasting witu the 
patriarchs, or merely getting into a place called heaven, they are allowed 
to try the experiment, till they become so disgusted that they wish to 
breakaway from such enjoyments, and escape to some place where they 
can find something uselul to do. They are then instructed that heaven 
consists in performing useu-doing useful things— in the name of the Loud, 
and liuTit glad are they to learn that lesson. The essence of heavenly de- 
li ht is the doing of good to others, and not the selfish gratification ol 
one's own desires. Swedenborg says that the angels uot only love the 
neighbour an tht^mselves, but better than themselves, and find ineffable 
delight in ministering to their neighbours. That is in accordance with the 
teaching of the Lord while on earth : " But he that is greatest pmoDg you 
shall be your servant." (Matt, xxiii. IL 



a i!' 



% 



54 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZAN S GUIDE. 



Reporter. But what do angels find to do inbearen x 

Mr. H, Every thing that good men and women do in a perfect state of 
society on earth, with of course such exceptions as grow out of the differ- 
ence between ttie material and the spiritual worlds. Son>e are teachers (^t 
religious truth to new comers from this world. Some, particularly women, 
take care of infants and children. Immense numbers are engaged in 
iiratching oyer us who still live here in this world. " Are they not all miu- 
istering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall bf» heirs of saiva- 
tion," (Heb. i. 14), and as many, if not more, in ameliorating themiserios 
of the inmates of hell. It is there as it would be here in a community of 
good and benevolent people, each one does what he is best qualified for to 
promote the general welfare and happiness. 

Reporter. Will people know each other there ? 

Mr H. Yes, but if that knowledge is only of the outward seeming, as it 
often is in this world, and not of real interior character, it will soon pass 
fcway, becr.use there everybody at length has to show his real character, 
no hvpocrisy is possible there. Hence, unless people have an interior 
afiinity for one another, they do not remain together in the spiritual 
world. 

Reporter. Do you administer the usual ordinances 1 

Mr. H. We administer the rite of Baptism, and the sacrament of the 
Holy Supper, and carry on our worship very much like other Christians. 
We are liberal in our notions as to other sects, and wish them all God 
speed. 1 The fact is the New Jerusalem is coming down out of heaven in all 
purts of the world and in all denominations. It has transformed the 
theology and the preaching of Christendom within a century. Henry 
Ward Beecher preaches more of the essence of the new church doctrines 
than some of our own ministers. Bishop Clark of Rhode Island does tho 
same. By the essence of our doctrines, I mean love to God and the 
neighbour carried out in actual life by keeping the commandments, both 
in tiieir letter and their spirit. 

To the foregoing, we add the following extracts from Swedenborg. 
The Criterion for Charactek .—"Man may know which he is amongst, 
whether amongst the infernal spirits or the angelic. If he intends evil to 
his neighbor, thinking nothing hut evil concerning him, and actually do- 
ing evil when in his power, and finding delight in it, he is amongst the in* 
fernals, and becomes himself also an infernal in the other life; but if ho 
intends good to his neighbor, and thinks nothing but good concerning 
him, and actually does good when in his power, he is amongst the angelic, 
and becomes himself an angel in the other life." " Let a man search out 
the end which he regards in preference to all the rest, and in respect to 
which subordinate ends are as nothing; nnd if he regards self and the 
W' rid as ends, be it known to him that his life is an infernal one; but if 
he regards as ends the good of his neighbor, the general good, the Lord's 
Kingdom, and especially the Lord Himself, be it known to him that his 
life is a heavenly one." " A man serious in his duty towards God and his 
neighbor, may always know whether he is on the right road to salvation 
or not, by examining himself and his own thoughts by the Ten Command- 
ments; as, for instance, whether he loves and fears God"; whether he is 
nappy in seeing^ the welfare of others, and does not envy them; whether 
on having received a great injury from others, which may have excited 
him to anger and to meditate revenge, he afterwards changes his senti- 
ments, because God has said that vcngence belongs to him, and so on ; 
then he may rest assured, that he is on the way to heaven, but when he 
discovers himself to be actuated by contrary sentiments, on the road to 
hell." 

Concerning Age in Heaven.— Those who are in heaven are continu- 
ally advancing to the spring of life, and the more thousands of yoars they 
live to a spring so much tho more delightful and happy, and this to eter- 
nity, with increments according to the progresses and degrees of love, 
charity, and of faith. Of the female sex, those who have died old and 
worn out with age, and have lived in charity towards their neighbor, and 
In happy conjugal love with a husband, after ««, succession of years come 
more and more into the flower of youth and adolescence, and intoabeauUr 
which exceeds every idea of beauty ever perceivable by th© sight. Gooa* 



aessftT 

causes 

minut( 

They 

of chat 

what 

angel, 

appear 

beauty 

£row o 
lORD 1 

beautifii 

Sta'j 



ID£. 



I perfect state of 
out ofthediffer- 
:'e are teachers ot 
ticularly women, 
are engaged in 
they not all min- 
be heirs o( saiva- 
iting the miseries 
a oommunity of 
at qualified for to 



rd seeming, as it 
, it will soon pasfis 
is real character, 
tiave an interior 
in the spiritual 



mcrament of the 
other Christians, 
sh them all God 
tt of heaven in all 

transformed the 
century. Henry 
church doctrines 

Island does the 
to God and the 
uandments, both 

wedenborg. 
ch he is amongst, 
le intends evil to 
and actually do< 
amongst the In- 
life; but if he 
{ood concerning 
ugst the angelic, 
man search out 
nd in respect to 
rds self and the 
rnal one ; but if 
ood, the Lord's 
to him that his 
rds God and his 
)ad to salvation 
Ten Command- 
; whether he is 
them; whether 
y have excited 
nges his senti- 
im, and so on ; 
n, but when he 
on the road to 

^en are continu- 
Is of yv^ars they 
ind this to etcr- 
Jegroes of love, 
died old and 
neighbor, and 
I of years come 
|id intoabeautv 
sight. Good- 



AlPtENfilX TO THE ARTIZAN*S GUIDE. 



55 



iiess and charity Is What forms and makes a resemblance of itself, and 
causes the delightful and beautiful of charity to shine forth from the 
minutest parts of the face, so that they themselves are forms of charity. 
They have been seen by some, and have excited astonishment. The form 
of charily, which is seen to the life in heaven, is such that charity itself is 
what effigies and ia effigied, and this in such amannei, that the whole 
angel, especially the face, is as it were charitv, which manifestly both 
appears, and is perceived, which form, when it is beheld, is ineffable 
beauty, affecting with charity the very inmost of the mind. In a word, to 
grow old in heaven ia to grow young; those who have lived in love to the 
Lord and in charity towards their neighbor, become such forms, or such 
beauties, in the other life. Heaven and Hell. 414. 

Statk or TwE World and Church, aftkr, and in Conskvjuencb 
OF, THB LABT JuDOMCNT.— " The State of the WORLD hereafter will ^o quite 
similar to what it "has been heretofore, for the great change, which has been 
effected in the spiritual world, does n.i induce any change in the natural 
world as regardt. the outward form; so that the affairs of state.*, peace, 
treaties and wars, with all other things which belong to the societies of 
men, in general and in particular, will exist in the future, just as they ex- 
isted in the past. The Lord's saying that in the last times there will bo 
wars, and that nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom a;^ain8t 
kingdom, and that there will be famines, pestilences and earthquakes iu 
divers places," Matt. xxiv. 6, 7, does not signify that such things will 
exist in the natural world, bnt that things correspondent with them will 
exist in the spiritual world, for the "Word in its prophecies does not treat 
ol the kingdoms, or of the nations upon earth, or consequently of their 
wars, or of fkmines, pestilences, and earthquakes in nature, but of such 
things as correspond to them in the spiritual world, what these things 
arc, is explained in the Arcana C<elestia. But as for the ptatb of th« 
Ch jRCH, this it is which will be dissimilar hereafter; it will be similar in- 
deed in the outward form, but ditgimilar in the inward. To outward appear- 
ance divided churches will exist as heretofore, their doctrines will be taught 
as heretofore ; and the same religions as now will exist among the Gentiles. 
But henc^orward the man of the church will be in u more free state oj} 
thinking on matters of faith, that is, on spiritual things which relate 
to heaven, because spiritual^ liberty has been restored to Mm. 
For all things in the uaavens and in the hells are now reduced into 
order, and au things which entertains or opposes divine things inflows 
from thence—, from the heavens, all which is in harmony with divine 
things, and from the hells, all which is opposed to them. But man does 
not observe this change of state in himself, because he does not reflect 
upon it, and because he knows nothing of spiritual liberty, or of influx ; 
nevertheless it is perceived in heaven, and also by man hira-elf when he 
dies. Since spiritual liberty has been restored to man, the spirituRl sense 
of the Word is now unveiled, and interior Divine Truths are revealed by 
means of it; for man in his former state would not have received them, 
and he who would have understood them would have profaned them." 
" Hence it is that after the lastjudgment, and not sooner, revelations were 
made for the New Church. For since communication has been restored 
by the last Judgment, man is able to be enlightened and reformed, that is, 
to understand tlie Divine Truth of the Word, to receive it when under- 
stood, and to retain it when received, for the interposing obstacles are 
removed; and therefore John, Rf'ter the former heaven and the former 
earth passed away, said that he saw a new heaven and a new earth, and 
then, the holy city new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven 
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband ; and heard On dttiug upon 
the throne say, Behold I make all things new." /lev. xxi 1, 2, 6. 

The above was written by Swedenbor^ in 1768, or 116 ye irs ago. The 
last judgment lorot Id in Matt, xxiv, Luke xxi, 9, 27, liev. vi. 12, 17. 
xvi. 18, »nd other places, was fully accomplished in the spiritual world, 
(as described by him), by the end of the year 1757, or the year previous to 
the one first mentioned, and 1 appeal to every enlightened mind if the 
above statements regarding the condition of tne world, and the 
state of the man of church have not been verified by actual histori- 
cal facts, which even at thiB day, 1878, have assumed an amplitude whicl) 



m 



!M-,iy 



^•V^T?.^-^'^''*^ 



EL'I? 



A^f^ 



4 



AP^ENDIi i?0 THE ARlilZANS* GtJiDfi* 



it would reqniM a volnme to deaorlL-j. The last judgment was executed 
on Buch of the 'kicked as had passed into the spiritual world from tbe 
LoBD'B time until the year 1757, but not upon those who lived previous, 
for a last Judgment bad twice before existed on tho earth, the first was 
executed upon the posteiity of the Most Ancient church, and is described 
In the Word by the flood ; the other was efl^ot«d by the Lo.^d Mimsclf 
when he was In the world, as it is written, " Mow is the judgmeu; of this 
world, BOW is the prince of this world oast out," John xii. 81. It is of 
Divine ordM* that a judgment takes place at the end of. a church, when 
ignorance of Ood, the ftusiflcation of His Word, and conseqi e t dreadful 
wickedness has arisen to such a hdght that, for the sake uf the good, 
judgment can no longer be restrained. With these facts betore us, we cau 
dow perceive the infernal origin of that malignant spirit which held 
supreme sway during the dark ages down to the date in question, and 
vented itself in muri^ring, buralug. racking, and persecuting millions of 
innocent human beings in the aame of religion. To this period may lu 
assigned che sublime descriptive imagery of the prophet, when be .eays, 
"Behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darknes^ the people," 
of which we will only say that we have had the darkness vith a most 
terrible verity, for even now the man of the church is but blowly emorg- 
ing out of it. True order requires that man muet divest himself of error 
and fiilsities before he can receive truths, and all experience shows that 
this can only be effected gradually, and little by little, as the under8tn..:'i> 
Ing becomes enlightened, fbr the will principle must be convinced fror' , 
or oy, the understanding, and this in perfect freedom. It cau reyer t e 
forced. 

By the hcly city New Jerusalem, which was se^n coming do^n from 
God out of heaven, mentioned in Kev. xxi., and described in the tut^srntil 
sense of the Word, in Isa. lii. 1,2, 6,9, Ix, 1, 22« Ixii., 1, 12, }xv , li, 22. 
Ixvl., 22. Dan vii., 18, 14, is not meant a city, for it is described asi hhlng 
of pure gold, as being square, twelve thousand furlongs, or abp'^t \<M 
English miles, each wav, and th& height the same, such a city cou'il not 
exist on the earth, and is not to beso understood. By a city in the Word, 
is signified the Church as to^ doctrine, as when rre pray for the peaoe of 
Jerusalem, we mean the Churchy signified ^r Jerusalem, and not the city 
of that namo in Palestine, so by the new J'^rutialem, and its description by 
correspondences and symbols, in Rev, : .. v^ are not to understap<:^ any 
city, but the nature and quality Ufa chni<; ' ^ew Dispensation of Divine 
Truth, drawn from the Word, which •*, »i<.. be unfolded to the world 
after the last judgment had taken place. Every particular of this descrip- 
tion involves a spiritual sense which precludes any error from entering 
into the interpretation. For instance, it is written, " And the twelve gates 
were twelve pearls ; every several gate was of one pearl," v. 21, by which 
is signified the great and glorious truth that the acknowledgment 
and knowledge of the Loud conjoins into one all the knowledges ot truth 
and good derived from the Word. That the Lord is the very gate by 
which to enter the Church and heaven, ile Himself teaches when lie says, 
" I am the door ; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, " John x. 
9. This is also meant where it is written, " Open ye the gates, that the 
righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in," Isa. xxvi., 2. 
The Lord further says, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant 
man, seeking goodly pearls ; who, when he had found Onb fbarl ov 
ORBAT PRiuu, went and sold all that he had. and bought it," Matt, xiii., 
45, 46. The one pearl of great price, signihes the knowledge and acknow- 
ledgment 3f the Lord ; to cell all that He had and buy it, signifies for man 
to divei.' limself of error and falsity, and receive this great truth. A rock, 
stones, precious stones, and pearl->, are used iiithe Word as corresponding 
symbols of truth, hence tJ a I^ord as to the principle ol His Divine Trutli, 
In sailed the Rock, Den,., xxxii. Fs xrv,, 1., and many other places, 
She ' stone of Israel" Gau. xlix., 24. " * stone, a tried stoup, a procious 
Qcrner atout, a sure foundation," Isa' xxviii., 16. The kiug of Tyre in 
JLcekiel, repro.-jenttj iLni man of the C'iurch vm to knowledgon, hence it is 
written of aim, "Thou has been m Ekien, the garden of Gol> ; every 
•'^recio'i^' stnni was thy covering, tNe sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the 
. jpecyl, thu onyx, and the jasper, l^hc sapplilre, the emeraid> and th» car- 



Tl 



r^:T^ >'^'*" ■'^ ^' -'' 









JlDtl* 



tent was executed 
il world from tbe 
10 lived previous, 
12th, tbe first waa 
ti, and is described 
ibe Lo.^D Mimself 
e judfnDeu* of this 
a XII. 31. It is of 
)f a church, when 
)nRoqi e t dreadful 
galie of the good, 
i before us, wecau 
spirit winch held 
B in quostion, and 
jcuting millions of 
this period may I e 
let, when he .eays, 
•knesj the people," 
knesa vith a most 
but blowly emorg- 
38t himself of error 
erience shows that 
as the undei!8t!v.;'l" 
)e convinced fr(fj?' , 
. It can rever be 

:,oming doyn from 
t>ed in the xuterntil 
, 1, 12,Uv,ll, U 
described a^ bf-Jng 
lUgs, or ftbQ'it \'M 
5h a city qouW not 
I city in the Word, 
y for the peasv; ot 
n. and not the city 
I its description by 
to understapi^ any 
)en8ation of Divine 
ded to the world 
ar of this descrip- 
Tor from entering 
id the twelve gates 
" V. 21, by which 
acknowledgment 
lowl edges ot truth 
I the very gate by 
hes when He says, 
e saved, " Johnx. 
le gates, that tbe 
n," Isa. xxvi., 2. 
unto a merchant 
Onk pkakl of 
htit," Matt, xiii., 
edge and aoknow- 
•,, signifies for man 
eat truth. A rook, 
as corresponding 
His Divine Trutli, 
anv other places, 
iton«*, a precious 
king of Tyre in 
edgert, hence it ia 
■a of Gol> ; every 
tbe diamond, the 
aid, luad thecar' 



1^ 



APPBNDIX TO THii Atti^IZANB' OTJIDE. 



57 



bnncle, and gold" xxviii., 13. It is plain that these expressions are not 
lo be litera''y un<'erwt >od, but are thus ejcpressed for tbe sake of the spir- 
itual sense, in which precious stones signify truths. The like is meant by 
" Kdpn, the garden of G< 'D" in which the king of lyre is said to have been, 
which is used in the Word to denote IntelligeBce, and wisdom thence 
derived. The garden of Eden was as much unknown in the time of the 
king of Tyre as it is at this day, such a locality as that described in Gen. 
ii., 8, 14, having no geographical existence on the globe ; hence the vain 
researches, travels, expeditions, writings, &c., of the curious and the 
learned, during the past and present agos, regardiug this subject, they 
being ignorant that the whole account is to be understood as a pure alle« 

fory, deacriptlve of the state of the men of the Most Ancient Church, 
his was the universal style of writing among these people, it wis derived 
from a heavenly orl^n, and they delighted in framing descriptions of this 
kind, expressing spiritual truths by means of allegories or correspond- 
ences, making use of natural objects to symbolize spiritual truths. It mwt 
be visible to every one, that when the trt es of the garden are described 
natural trees are not to be understood, for life, and the knowledge of good 
and evil, do not grow on such trees, and so on with other thinirs. This 
style of writing Is continued to about the end of the eleventh chapter of 
Qeuesis, whure literal or trr.e history begins, but still of such a nature that 
it involves a spiritual sense throughout. As mankind receded from a heaven- 
ly state, and became corporeal and sensual, believing in nothing which 
they could not investigate with their bodily senses, the knowledge of cor- 
respondences became gradually lost, and remained so, until under the 
Divine Providence of the Lord it has been again restored to the Church, 
and made available to unfold the true meaning of the Word. So now those 
who bave hitherto " walked in darkness" may " see a great light," and the 
Church may be addressed in the sublime language of the prophet, " Abisb, 

8HINB ; VOB TRY LIOHT IS OOMX, Al<a> THK GLOKY OV THB hOBJ> IS 
BIBEir UFON THBB." 

SUMMABY STATEMENT OF THE DOCTRINES OF THE NEW 

CHURCH. 

I. God Is Ono In Essence and in Person, m whom there Is a distinct 
and essential Trinity, called in the Word the Father, Son, and Holy Spi- 
rit, and the Lord Jesus Christ is this God, and the only true object of 
worship. 

II. — ^In order to be saved, man must believe on the Lord, and strive to 
obey his commandnxents, looking to Him alone for streng'.li and assistance, 
and acknowledging that all litie and salvation are from Him. 

III. — The Sacred Scriptures, or the Divine Word, is not only the Reve- 
lation of the Lord's will and the history of his dealings witn men, but 
also contains the Infinite treasures of bis wisdom expressed in symbolical 
or correspondential language, and therefore in addition to the sense of 
the letter, there Is in the Word an inner or spiritual sense, which can be 
interpreted only by the law of correspondence between things natural and 
things spiritual. 

IV.— Now is the time of the Second Coming of the Lord, foretold in 
Matt, xxiv., and the establishment of the New Church signified by the 
Nt)w Jerusalem in Revelation xxi., and this Second Coming Is not a vis- 
ible appeiirance on earth, but a new disclosure of Divine Truth and the 
promulgation of true Christian Doctrine, efiTected by means of the Lord's 
servant, Emanuel Swedeuborg, who was specially instructed in this Doc- 
trine, and commissioned to publish It to the world. 

v.— Man's lilfe in the material body is but the preparation for eternal 
life, and when the body dies man immedintely rises into the spiritual 
world, and, alter m; naration in an intermediate state, dwells for ever in 
Heaven or Hei; c; itl ."g to the character acquired during his earthly 
life. 

VI.— The Spiiltuai \V >r)d, the eternal home of men after death, la not 
remote Irom this wor I, JUt is in direct coiyanotion with it, and we are, 
though imcoa3«;;gu^^ly| i;,Uvaye in mm&'U^^tiQ wftrnwoium witU Augelii »>u4, 



iP 






':tft,- 



NEW CHURCH BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS FOR SALE 

by James Sptera, 86 Bloomshury St London W. C. Enfrland. E. H. 
Swinuey, 20 Cooper Union, New York City, U.S. A.; Carter & Pettee, 
SBeacon St. Boston, MaRS. U. S. A. In the folln>^ing lift the positago 
is included, unlero otherwise opeo fled. The prices in England vary from 
the following;, which have reference to American money only. 



Price. Post. 
$ 0. c. 
Arcana Ccelestia, 10 voir., 

each 1.5^ 44 

Apoc. Revealed, 2 vols., 

each 1.50 86 

True Christian Religion .... 2.60 60 

Conjugal Love 1.26 86 

Miscellaneous Theological 

Works 1.50 40 

Heaven and Hell 1.26 82 

Divine Providence 1.26 24 

Four Leading Doctrines ... 1.00 24 
Divine Love and Wisdom. . 1.00 00 

Athanasian Creed $1.26 

Last Judgment, mu .lin 76 

Last Judgment, paper 80 

Heaven and Hell, paper. 50 

Earths in the Universe, limp.. . .60 
Earths in jthe Universe, paper.. .30 

Doctrine of he Lord, paper 20 

Doot. of the Sacred Scripture .16 

Doctrine of li'aith, paper 10 

Doctrine of Life, paper 10 

Heavenly ' -bctrines, paper 12 

Decalogue Exp'i'ined, cloth 60 

Exp. of the Ten ( ommandments .10 

Summaiy Expor.itiou 20 

Apocalypse Explained, English 

Edition, 6 vols 10.00 

COLLATBRAI. WOBES. 

Arhouin's Regenerate Life 76 

Barrett's Lectures 150 

Barrett, New View of Hell 1.25 

Barrett, Prelate and Pastor 80 

Bayley, Egypt to Canaan 8.00 

Divine Wisdom of the Word.. 2.60 
Bayley, Divine Word Opened. 8.50 
Bayley, Esbays anti Reviews... . 1.60 
Bayley, ScriptL ^« Paradoxes . . 1.25 

Bayley, Brighton Lectures 30 

Browninq^, Words. J n Season... 1.00 
Bruce's C 'amentarr on Mat- 
thew 8.60 

Bruce'8 Co-Timc/uuiy ku, John.. 3.00 

Bruce's Sermons. ..'. 1.76 

Bruce'8 Stricture?, -^tc. 60 

Bruce's Mairiagp 76 

Clowes, (iospel of Matthew 3.00 

(lowes, Gospel ol Mark 3.00 

Clowes, Gospel of Luke 3.U0 

Clowes Gospel of a vhn 8.00 

Clowesi, Memoirs 2.76 

Clowr'!. Mediums 2.60 

ClowM, M'raties.., 1,26 

Clowes, Marrip.ge of the King's 
Son 2.00 



Clowes, Parables 1.50 

Clowes, Dehghts 1.26 

Clowes, Opposites 1.26 

Clowes, Miscellaneous Sermons 2.L6 
Deliverance of the Israelites 2.25 

Clowes, Ten Virgins 2.26 

Doctrine of the Lord in Primi- 
tive Christian Church 76 

Field, Cosmos and Logos 2.00 

Giles, Nature of Spirit, clo. gilt 1.26 

Giles, Nature of Spirit, clo 76 

Giles, Nature ol S, irit, paper.. .60 

Giles on the Atonement, clo 50 

Giles on the Atonement, paper .26 

Gould, Biblical Criticism 1.00 

Hayden, Dangers of Modern 

iijpiritualism 75 

Hayden, Dangers of Modern 

Spriritu jlism, paper 20 

Hayden, Lectures on the Apo« 

lypse..... 1.00 

Hayden, Lignt on the Last 

Things 1.26 

Havden. Ten Chapters on Mar- 
riage 1.00 

Sermons on the Lord's Prayer. 1.00 
Hiller, Sermons on Ten Com'dts 1,00 

Hiller, Prsctica.! Sermons 1.76 

Hiller, Religion and Philo- 
sophy 50 

Hiller, *Vho was Swedenborg f .£0 

Miller, Doctrinal Sermons 1.76 

Hiller, God Manifest 1.60 

Hiller, Notes on the Psalms... . 3.00 
Holcombe, Our Children in 

Heaven 1.75 

Holcombe, Sexes Here and 

Hereafter 1.50 

Holcombe, The Other Life 1.60 

Howard, Journey of tae Israe- 
lites. . 1.00 

Noble's Appeal 1.75 

Noble on the Commandments. 2.00 

Noble's Lectures 2.60 

Noble, Plenary Inspiration .... 1.25 
Noble, Gloriffn of the Divine 

Humanity 1.75 

Noble, Eight Parables Ex- 
plained 2.26 

Reed, S., Growth of the Mind. 1.00 

Raed, J., Man and Woman 75 

Reed, J., Religion and Life 76 

Rendell, Antediluvian History. 1.75 
Renlell, Postdiluvian History. 1.76 
Silver, Holy Word in its ov^n 

Defence 1.28 

Silver, Symbolic Character. . . . 1.88 



A much more extensive list vaay be seen in the " Now Jorusalem Mesi- 
senger," a New Church weekly of 16 quarto paj^Sf, published at No, 2ri, 
Cooper Union, New York , Terms, $3 pyr (^unv;m. It \i f^ftJJy ^ most 
exeilent paper for the family. « 



AT PIX 



r=r- 


1 


jj_ 




$ 


1 


1 




2 




3 




4 




6 




6 




7 




8 




9 




10 




20 




80 




40 




60 




100 




200 




800 




400 




600 




1000 




2000 




8000 


• 


4000 




SGK) 
10060 


] 



AT SBTX 



1 
2 

S 
4 
6 
6 

7 
8 
9 

10 

20 

30 

40 

60 

100 

200 

800 

400 

600 

1000 

2000 

8000 

4000 

6000 

JOOOO 



SALE 

■land. E. H. 
er & Pettee, 
. thp postago 
id vary ftom 

1.50 

1.25 

1.25 

iermons 2.15 
iraelites 2.25 

2.26 

1 rriml- 

76 

38 2.00 

clo. gilt 1.26 

clo 76 

paper.. .60 

, olo 60 

t, paper .26 

na 1.00 

modem 

75 

modern 

20 

le Apo- 

1.00 

e Last 

1.26 

>D Mar^ 

1.00 

Prayer. 1.00 
^om'dto 1.00 

M 1.76 

Ph«o- 

60 

iborg f .60 
ns 1.76 

.... 1.50 
Iins.... 3.00 
en in 

.... 1.76 
|e and 

.... 1.50 

fe 1.60 

tlsrae- 

1.00 

^ 175 

neuts. 2.00 

.... 2.60 
>n.... 1.26 
Divine 

1.75 

B jSx- 

.... 2.26 
Mind. 1.00 

an 75 

ife 75 

istory. 1,75 
story, i.76 

8 OV¥U 

1.28 

let-. . . . 1.8S 

sal em Mea- 
at No, 20, 

ly A motit 



INTEREST TABLE, 

AT IIX VTOt CKSfX., Iff DOLLARS AND CSNT8, VZOU 6VZ DOtl'AK TO 

TBH VH0V8AKD. 




AT SETXir PSa CBNT., IW D0LL4,BS AND OBNTS, FBOU ONX DOLLAB 

TO TEN THOUSAND. 



1 


00 


00 


1 


2 


00 


00 


3 


00 


00 


4 


00 


00 


6 


00 


00; 


6 


00 


OOi 


7 


00 


01 


8 


00 


01 


9 


00 


01 


10 


00 


01, 


20 


00 


02; 


30 


00 


04 


40 


00; 


05A 
06} 


50 


01 


100 


02 


isf 

27 


200 


04 


800 


06 


40i 


400 


08 


64 


600 


10 


68 


1000 


194 


1 86 


2000 


89 


2 721 


3000 


68 


4 08= 




4000 


78 


6 44^ 




i 6000 


07 


6 80 




1 ;oooo 


1 94 


18 61 





1 
1 

2 

5 

8 

11 



01 

01* 

oil 

02 
02, 

08 

06 

09 

12 

16 

29 

68 

87i 

17 

46 

92 

88 

76 

67 



14 68 
29 17 



I 




5 8di 
11 

17 60 
23 33 
29 16i 
68 33 



07 
14 
21 
28 
86 
42 
49 
66 
63 
70 

1 40 

2 10 
280 
860 
700 

14 00 

21 00 

28 00 

85 00 

70 00 

140 00 

210 00 

280 00 

850 00 

700 OQ 



''»j 



READY BEOKOKER^ ^,060 LBS. TO THE TON. 
iTBOoaci AitrD Mtsitio^A^biBiB sbadt rbokoitkss. hat, butteb, 

OHBESB, LAKD ' AND OTHBB PBODUOI. 



*Ctt 

12.00 




5 TON. 
AT, BTTTSB, 



I eta 

.0.00 



ft cts 
11.00 



»ctt 
12.00 



9 eta 
40.00 



. 6 
.14 

.90 
.40 
.00 
1.00 
1.40 
1.60 
1.80 
2.00 
4.00 
6.00 
8.00 
1000 
12.00 
14.00 
16.00 
18.00 
20.00 
22.00 
24.00 
26.00 
28.00 
80.00 
82.00 
84.00 
86.00 
88.00 



i? 



era 
50.00 



. 8 
.18 

.26 
.60 
.76 
1.26 
1.75 
2.00 
225 
2.50 
6.00 
7.50 
10.00 
12.50 
16.00 
17.50 
20.00 
22.50 
26.00 
27.50 
80.00 
82.60 
S6.Q0 
87.50 
40.00 
42.60 
45.00 



READY RECKONER, 2,240 LBS. TO THE TOfl. 
tk* »o. rtqair«d !• ^^ ^ ^^ ^^^^^ ^^ ^^ tmonntt of •wo BmniMri 

together 




READY EECKONBR, 2,240 LBS. TO THE TON. 

If the article cost 912.60 per ton, add the amount! under 912 00 and 60 oto. 

together. 



• 


X6« 


9 OiB 


9 eta .f cts 1 9 eta 


9 eta 


9 eta 


9 eta 


9 eta 


9 eta 


9 eta 


'8 


26 00 


26 00 


27 00 
.24 


29 00 


80 00 


31 00 


83 00 


34 00 


35 00 


86 00 


1 


20 


.22 


.23 


.26 


.27 


.28 


.29 


,80 


81 


.82 


26 


.28 


.29 


,80 


.82 


.88 


.35 


.87 


.88 


.39 


.40 


1 


80 


.88 


.86 


,86 


.89 


.40 


.41 


.44 


.46 


.47 


.48 


g 


60 


.66 


.68 


.60 


.66 


.67 


.69 


.74 


.76 


.78 


80 


^ 


70 


.78 


.81 


.84 


.91 


.94 


.97 


1.03 


106 


1.09 


112 


• 


60 


.89 


.93 


.96 


1.04 


1.07 


1.11 


118 


121 


125 


12» 


S 


90 


1.00 


1.04 


1.08 


1.16 


1.21 


1.25 


1.33 


1.37 


1.41 


1.45 


5 


100 


1.12 


1.16 


1.21 


1.29 


184 


1.88 


147 


1.62 


156 


161 


200 


228 


232 


2.41 


2.59 


2.68 


2.77 


2.94 


8.04 


812 


3 21 


•S 


900 


836 


8 48 


3.62 


3.88 


4.02 


4.16 


4.41 


466 


4,69 


4 82 


g 


400 


4.46 


464 


4.82 


6.18 


6.86 


6.64 


6.89 


6.07 


626 


6,43 


o 


600 


6.68 


6.80 


6.03 


6.47 


6.70 


6.92 


7.37 


759 


7 81 


804 


»4 


600 


6.70 


6.96 


7.23 


7.77 


8.04 


8.30 


8.84 


911 


938 


964 


5 

C4 


700 


7.81 


8.12 


8.44 


9.06 


9.87 


0.69 


10.81 


10.62 


10,94 


1125 


800 


8.98 


929 


9.64 


10.88 


10.71 


11.07 


11.79 


12.14 


I2.m 


12 86 


ei 


900 


10.04 


10.46 


10.86 


11.66 


12.06 


12.46 


13.26 


18.66 


14.06 


14,46 




1000 


11.16 


11.61 


12.06 


12.96 


18.89 


18.84 


14.78 


1518 


15.68 


16.07 


o 


1100 


12.28 


12 77 


13.26 


14.24 


14.78 


16.22 


16.21 


16.70 


1719 


17 68 


5 


1200 


18.89 


18 98 


14.46 


16.64 


16.07 


16.61 


17 68 


18 21 


18.75 


19,29 


(3 


1300 


14.61 


16.09 


15.67 


16.83 


17.41 


17.99 


19.16 


19 7.3 


20.31 


20.99 


1400 


16.62 


16.26 


16.87 


18.12 


18.76 


19.37 


20.62 


21.26 


21.88 


22.50 


a 


1600 


16.74 


17.41 


18.08 


19.42 


20.09 


20.76 


22.10 


22 77 


28 44 


2411 


1600 


17.8(5 


18.67 


19 28 


20.71 


21.48 


22.14 


28.57 


24.28 


25.00 


26 71 


ts 


1700 


18.97 


19.78 


.20.49 


22.00 


22.77 


23 58 


25.04 


25.80 


26.68 


27,32 


«>k 


1800 


20.09 


20.89 


21.70 


28.80 


24.11 


24.91 


26.52 


•27.32 


28.13 


28 93 


1900 


2120 


22.06 


22.90 


24.60 


25.44 


26.29 


27.99 


28.84 


29.69 


80,68 


2000 


22.82 


28.21 


24.10 


26.89 


26.78 


27.67 


20 46 


30.36 


8125 


82,14 


P4 


2100 


28.44 


24.37 


26.81 


27.19 


28.12 


29.06 


80.93 


31.87 


32 81 


83,76 


^ 


Lb8 


icit 


^^ctT 


ITo^ 


TTcfT 


IPcfa' 


9^t8 


^^18 


l^ta 


i^?r 


ITcfT 


1 

e 


87 00 


89 00 


40 00 


41 00 
.87 


43 00 


44 00 


46 00 


60 00 


66 00 


60 00 


~20 


.88 


.86 


86 


.38 


.89 


.40 


46 


49 


64 


26 


41 


.44 


.45 


.46 


48 


.49 


.60 


,66 


.61 


67 


IQ 


80 


.50 


.52 


64 


66 


57 


.59 


60 


67 


.74 


,80 


>% 


60 


.88 


.87 


.89 


.92 


.96 


.98 


100 


112 


1.23 


1.34 


s 


70 


1.16 


1.21 


125 


1.28 


1.34 


137 


1.41 


1.66 


172 


187 


80 


1.82 


1.39 


1.43 


1.46 


1.54 


1.57 


161 


179 


196 


2.14 


^ 


90 


1.49 


167 


1.61 


1.65 


1.73 


1.77 


1.81 


2 01 


2 21 


241 


.§ 


100 


166 


174 


1.79 


1.83 


192 


196 


2.01 


2.23 


2 46 


2 68 


200 


380 


3 48 


8.57 


8 66 


384 


8 93 


4 02 


4.46 


4.91. 


6 36 


£ 


301 


4.96 


6.22 


5.86 


6.49 


5.76 


6.89 


6 03 


6.70 


737 


8 04 


o 


400 


6 61 


696 


714 


7.82 


7.68 


786 


804 


8.93 


9 82 


10,71 


6 


500 


8 26 


8.71 


8.93 


9 16 


9.60 


9.82 


10.04 


11 16 


12 28 


13,39 




600 


9 91 


10.46 


10.71 


10.98 


11.52 


11.79 


12.06 


13.39 


14.73 


16.07 


^ 


700 


11.66 


1219 


12.50 


12.81 


18.44 


13.75 


14.06 


15 62 


1719 


18 76 


«o 


800 


13.21 


18.93 


14.29 


UM 


15.36 


16.71 


16,07 


17.86 


19.64 


21.43 


3 


900 


1487 


16.67 


1607 


16 47 


17 28 


17.68 


18 08 


20 09 


2210 


24.11 




1000 


16.62 


17.41 


17 86 


18.30 


19.20 


19 64 


20.09 


22.32 


24 65 


26.79 


1100 


18.17 


19 16 


19.64 


20 13 


21.12 


2161 


22.10 


24 55 


27 01 


29 46 


1200 


19.82 


20.89 


2143 


21.96 


28 04 


23 57 


24 11 


26 79 


29.46 


82 14 




1300 


21.47 


22 63 


23.21 


23 79 


24.95 


25 58 


2612 


29 02 


8192 


34 82 


9 


1400 


23.12 


24 37 


25 00 


26 62 


26.87 


27 50 


28 12 


3126 


34 37 


87.60 


1600 


24 78 


26 12 


26 79 


27.45 


28.79 


29.46 


3013 


33 48 


36 83 


4018 


1600 


23 43 


2786 


28.57 


29.28 


30.71 


31.43 


32 14 


35.71 


39 2S 


42.86 


1700 
1800 


28.08 


29.60 


30.36 


31.12 


82.63 


33.39 


34 16 


87 96 


4174 


45.63 


29.73 


81.34 


82.14 


32.95 


34.55 


36.36 


36.16 


40 18 


44 20 


48 21 


1900 


81.38 


33.08 


33.93 


34.78 


86.47 


37.32 


38.17 


4241 


46 66 


60.89 




2000 


33.03 


34.82 


a'S.71 


30.61 


38.39 


39.28 


40,18 


44.64 


49 11 


63 57 


2J091 


9iM 


3^W 


37,5Q 


^■44 


40 31 


41.26 


42.19 


46.87 


5156 


56 2(; 



REi 

Th< 

Kofl 

^1 

4 

b 

6 

7 

H 

9 

10 

11 

12 

18 

14 

16 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

36 

80 

40 

M 

eu 

TO 



TON 


• 


roOandfiOot^. 


9cU 


r 9 eta 


<)6 0( 


) 36 00 


81 


.82 


.38 


.40 


.47 


.48 


.It 


80 


1.0» 


112 


126 


129 


1.41 


1.45 


166 


161 


812 


3 21 


4.69 


4 82 


626 


6.43 


7 81 


804 


0.38 


964 


10.94 


1126 


12.50 


12 86 


14.06 


14.46 


16.63 


1607 


1719 


17 68 


18.76 


19.29 


20.31 


20.89 


21.88 


22.60 


23 44 


24 11 


26.00 


26 71 


26.66 


27.32 


28.13 


28 93 


29.69 


80.63 


3126 


82.14 


32 81 


83.76 


J^??'T"c?r 


66 00 


60 00 


49 


64 


.61 


67 


.74 


.80 


1.23 


1.34 


172 


187 


196 


2.14 


2 21 


2.41 


2 46 


2 68 


4.91. 


6 38 


787 


8 04 


9 82 


10.71 


2 28 


13.39 


4.73 


16.07 


719 


18 76 


9.64 


21.4.3 


210 


24.11 


466 


26.79 


7 01 


29 46 


9.46 


82 14 


192 


34 82 


4 37 


37.60 


683 


4018 


)2H 


42.86 


174 


46.63 


120 


18 21 


)66 


50.89 


Ul . 


53 57 


.56 < 


}6 2G 



EEADT BlCKONlll. 

READT BECKONER, to And the Price of any Nainb«r of Foandi, Ywda, 
Plecea. or Bushels, from 2 eeota to tS.OO . 

The first eolamn oontalna the NUMBER, the top columns the PRICES. 



•ff 



Ofll 



2 
8 

4 
ft 
6 
7 

(4 

9 
10 
11 
12 
18 
14 
16 
16 
17 
38 
19 
20 
26 
80 
4U 
fiO 

eu 

70 
80 
90 

A 



I 



2 

h 

4 

b 

6 

1 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

16 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

26 

80 

40 

60 

60 

70 

80 

90 

)0Q 



IToT 



. 4 

. « 

. 8 

.10 

.12 

.14 

.16 

.18 

.20 

.22 

24 

.26 

.28 

.80 

82 

.84 

.86 

.88 

.40 

.60 

.80 

.80 

ICO 

1.20 

1.40 

i.eo 

1.80 
2.00 



Sot. 



I2ol. 



.24 

.86 

.48 

.60 

.72 

.84 

.96 

1.08 

1.20 

1.82 

1.44 

1.66 

l.< 

1.80 

1.92 

2.04 

2.16 

2.28 

2.40 

8.00 

8.60 

480 

COO 

7.20 

8.40 

9.60 

10.80 

12.00 



. 6 
. 9 
.12 
.16 
.18 
.21 
.24 
.27 
.80 
.83 



.42 

.46 

.48 

•51 

.64 

.67 

.60 

.76 

.90 

120 

160 

180 

2.10 

2.40 

270 

800 

R 



4ot. 



ct. 



. 8 

.12 

.16 

.20 

.24 

.28 

.82 

.86 

.40 

.44 

.48 

.62 

.66 

.60 

.64 

.68 

.72 

76 

.80 

100 

1.20 

1.60 

2.00 

2.40 

2.80 

8.20 

860 

4.00 



.26 
.87i 
.60 
.62i 
.76t 
.87i 
1.(0? 
1.12i 
1.26 
1.371 
1.60 
1.62i 
1.76 
1.87i 
2.00 
2.12i 
2 26 
2.87i 
2.60 
8.12^ 
8.76 
600 
6.26 
7.60 
8.76 
10.00 
11.26 
12.60 




.26 

.89 

.52 

.65 

.78 

.91 

1.04 

1.17 

1.30 

1.48 

166 

1.69 

1.82 

1.96 

2.08 

2.21 

2.34 

2.47 

2.60 

8.26 

8.90 

6.20 

6.60 

7.80 

9.10 

10.40 

11.70 

18.00 



i4ct: 



.28 
.42 
.66 
.70 
.84 
.98 
1.12 

1.: 

1.40 
1.64 
l.( 
1.82 
1.96 
2.10 
2.24 
2.88 
2.62 
2.e6 
2.80 
8.60 
4.20 
6.60 
7.00 
8.40 
9.80 
11.20 
12.60 
14.00 



i5cf: 



,80 

.46 

.60 

.76 

.90 

1.06 

1.20 

1.86 

1.60 

1.66 

1.80 

1.96 

2.10 

2.26 

2.40 

2.66 

2.70 

2.86 

8.00 

fi.76 

4.5C 

6.00 

7.60 

9.00 

10.60 

12.00 

18.60 

16.00 



7ct. 



16ot. 



.82 

.48 

.64 

.80 

•96 

1.12 

1.28 

1.44 

J. 60 

1.78 

1.92 

2 08 

2.24 

2.40 

2.66 

2.72 

2.88 

8.04 

8.20 

4.00 

4.80 

6.40 

8.00 

9.60 

11.20 

12.80 

14.40 

16.00 

» 



.14 

.21 

.28 

.86 

.42 

.49 

.66 

.68 

.70 

.77 

.84 

.91 

.98 

1.06 

112 

1.19 

1.26 

1.33 

1.40 

1.76 

2.10 

2.80 

8.60 

4.20 

4.90 

6.60 

630 

7.00 



Tat. 



.16 

.24 

.82 

.40 

.48 

.66 

.64 

.72 

.80 

.88 

.96 

104 

112 

1.20 

1.28 

1.86 

144 

1.62 

1.60 

2.00 

2.40 

820 

400 

4.80 

6.60 

6.40 

7.20 

8.00 



9ot. 



.18 

.27 

.86 

.45 

.64 

.68 

.72 

.81 

.90 

.99 

1.08 

1 17 

1.26 

1.36 

1.44 

1.68 

1.62 

1.71 

1.80 

2.26 

2.70 

8.60 

460 

e.40 

6.80 

7.20 

8.10 

9.00 



.64 
.72 
.90 

1.08 
1.26 
1.44 
1.62 
1.80 
1.98 
2.16 
2.34 
».62 
2.70 
2.88 
8.06 
8.24 
8.42 
8.6i) 

ceo 

6.40 
7.20 

9.00 

::.8o 

12.60 
14.40 
16.20 
18.00 



181 Ot. 19 ct. 20 ot 



10 Ct. 



.20 

.80 

.40 

.60 

.60 

.70 

.80 

.90 

1.00 

1.10 

1.20 

180 

1.40 

1.60 

1.60 

1.70 

1.80 

1.90 

200 

260 

8.00 

4.00 

6.00 

6.00 

7.00 

8.00 

9.00 

10.00 



.88 


.10 


.67 


.60 


.76 


.80 


.96 


1.00 


1.14 


1.20 


188 


1.40 


1.62 


i.eo 


1.71 


1.80 


1.90 


2.00 


2.09 


2.20 


2.28 


2.40 


2.47 


2.80 


2.66 


2.80 


2.86 


8.00 


8.04 


8.20 


8.28 


840 


8.42 


8.60 


8.61 


8.80 


8.80 


4.00 


4.76 


6.00 


6.70 


6.00 


7.60 


S.'X) 


9.60 


x.oo 


11.40 


W.OO 


18.30 


14.00 


16.20 


16.00 


17.10 


18.00 


W.OO 


00.00 



Hot. 

.22 

.88 
.44 

.66 

.66 

.77 

.88 

.99 

1.10 

121 

182 

1.43 

164 

166 

1.78 

1.87 

1.98 

209 

2.20 

276 

880 

4.40 

6.60 

6.60 

7.70 

8.80 

9.90 

11.00 

TO 

.42 

.68 

.84 

1.06 

1.26 

1.47 

1.68 

1.89 

2.10 

2.81 

2.62 

2.78 

2.94 

8.15 

8.86 

8.67 

3.78 

8.90 

4.20 

6.2ll 

6.80 

8.40 

10.6« 

12.00 

14.70 

16.80 

18.90 

20.00 










IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




k 




A 




^/ 







/. 




fe 






1.0 ^i^ 1^ 

1.1 l.-^isa 

iiiiim 



|i-25 il.4 



1.6 



V 



A 







Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y, 14580 

(716) 872-4503 





"Q 



V 



:n>^ 





:\ 



\ 



% 



v 














O^ 



^ 






''b^ 



K^^ 






% 




K&AOT RSCKONSB. 

The tnt wAvm^fm tb?, Ie<^ oo>iit»lp8 tl^e KipiBE^R MItM Artiole. and the 
column on the tops of the Tables, tlie PRICE. 



> O' 1:2 ct. 28ot. 24ct. 2r>ct. 26ct. 27ct. |28ot 




li i ' r nrii i )n I 

29 ct 8 tot. 31 it. 



a.70 

4.07 

iM 

4;81 

6,18 

b£6 

6.92 

ei29 

6JS6 

.03 

7.40 

9.26 

ll.lO 

14/80 

ld.60 

22.20 

26.90 

2900 

3d.80 

37.W 



.68 
.87 
l.li 

1.74 

2.0$ 

2.^ 

2.61 

2.&0 

319 

3.48 

371 

4.06 

4.86 

4.64 

4.93 

6.22 

6.61 

6.80 

726 

8 70 

11.60 

14.60 

17.40 

20:30 

^.20 

26.10 

29.00 



Ij^oT 



.76 

j.m 

1.60 

1.874 

2.26 

2.^ 

8.00 

3.874 

a76 

4.124, 

4.874 

6^26 

&634 

6.00 

6.874 

6,76 

7,124 

9% 
11.26 
|6.00 
18.76 
22,60 
26^26 

do,oo 

88.75 
37.60 



.60 

90 

1.20 

1.60 

1.80 

2.10 

2.40 

2 70 

3.00 

8.30 

3.60 

3.90 

4.20 

450 

480 

610 

640 

670 

6.00 

7.25 

900 

12.00 

16.00 

18.00 

21.00 

24.00 

27.00 

80.00. 



88 ci: 



.62 
.98 
1.24 
1.66 
1.86 
217 
2.48 
279 
310 
3.41 
3.72 
4.08 
4.34 
4.56 
4.96 

6 27 
6.68 
689 
6.20 

7 76 
9.30 

12.40 
16.60 
18.60 
2170 
2480 
27.90 
8100 



fcT 40< 



Theflnt 



llo441ot 




iTvtM 


Efet. 


a 


l.M 


a 


l-^ 


i 


Iw 


?! 


m 


8 




9 


£^ 


1 


|1 

m 



m 




.)<2i 
Mi 
12& 
1.61U 
I87i 
218; 

2 81. 
8 12i 
3.43i 

3 75 

4.06i 

4 37i 

6.00 

6 31i 

6 9ai 

6.2& 

7 8U 

d.3^ 

40 1 1260. 
50 15.62^ 

.874 
00 
18.131 

nr 
~? 

L40 

120 

iJ 
iA 

41 

OtC 
6,1 

6.4 

6.1 

im 

loS 

2.X)!» 

6JQ0 

.00 

.00 

.OQ 

82.00 

8tS.0O 

40.00 



Bl&DT BEOKONltt. 

The flnt ootamn oa.tha left voatelni 1l»e<srfMBBB oCtlM Artld*^ ta4 m 
coloma on th« topi of the TablM. the PBlCE» 



l<P44.1ot. 4act.i43ct. 44ot. 46 ot. 46pt. 47ot. 4bo't. 46ot. iSOct. sTotT 




W 

m 



\m 



i 



BIADT EEOKONim: 



If the NuDibwr r«qoired li not fonad In th j TablM, add two Nombeni to- 

S ether ; tor ioitanoa if 86 bosliel* are regnlred, add the prides opposite 
9 and 6 together ; and so for 866 boiheu— treble the valae cf 100, and 
and 00 and 6 together. 



add 



Nos 


m^ot 


68 ct. 


64 ot. 


66 ot. 
1.80 


66 ot. 


%iot. 


67 Ot. 


68 ot. 


68 ot. 


70 ct. 


7iot. 


2 


1.26 


1.26 


1.28 


1.82 


1.88^ 


1.84 


1.86 


1.88 


1.40 


1.42 


3 


1.87» 


1.89 


1.92 


1.06 


1.96 


2.00 


2.01 


2.04 


2.07 


2.10 


2.18 


4 


2.60 


2.62 


2.66 


260 


2.64 


2.661 
8.88} 


2.68 


2.72 


2.76 


2.80 


2.84 


6 


8.12) 


8.16 


820 


8.26 


8.80 


8.86 


8.40 


8.46 


8.50 


8.66 


6 


8.76 


8 78 


884 


-8.90 


8.96 


4.00 


4.02 


4.06 


4.14 


4.20 


4.26 


7 


4.87i 


4.41 


4.48 


4.66 


4.62 


4.66} 
6.88} 


4.69 


4.76 


4.88 


4.90 


4.97 


8 


6.00 


6.04 


612 


620 


6.28 


6.86 


6.44 


6.62 


6.60 


6.68 


9 


&.fl2i 


6.67 


6.76 


6.86 


6.94 


6.00 


6.08 


6.12 


6.21 


680 


6.89 


10 


6-|p 


6.80 


6.40 


6.60 


6.60 


6.66} 
7.88} 


6.70 


6.80 


6.90 


7.00 


7.10 


11 


6.87^ 


6.98 


7.04 


7.16 


7.26 


7.87 


7.48 


7.69 


7.70 


781 


12 


7-60* 


7.66 


7.68 


7.80 


792 


8.00 


8.04 


8.16 


8.28 


8.40 


8.62 


18 


8.12^ 


8.19 


8.82 


H.46 


8.68 


8.66} 
9.8^ 


8.71 


8.84 


8.97 


9.10 


9.23 


14 


8.76 


8.80 


8.96 


9.10 


9.24 


9.88 


9.62 


9.66 


9.8) 


9.94 


16 


9.87i 


9.46 


9.60 


9.76 


9.90 


10.00 


10.05 


10 20 


10.86 


10.60 


10.66 


16 


10.00 


10.08 


10.24 


10.40 


10.66 


1066} 
11.88} 


10.72 


10.88 


11.04 


11.20 


11.86 


17 


10.62^ 


10.71 


10.88 


11.06 


11.22 


11.89 


11.66 


11.78 


11.90 


12.07 


18 


11.26 


11.84 


11.62 


11.70 


11.88 


12.00 


12.06 


12.24 


12.42 


18.60 


12.78 


19 


11.87J 


11.97 


12.16 


12.86 


12.64 


12.66} 


12.78 


12.92 


1811 


18.80 


18.49 


20 


12i60 


12.60 


12.80 


18.00 


18.20 


18.88 


18.40 


18.60 


18.80 


14.00 


14.20 


26 


16^ 


16.76 


16.00 


16.26 


16 60 


16.66 


16.76 


17.00 


17.26 


17.60 


17.76 


80 


18.76 


18.90 


19.20 


19.60 


19.80 


20.C. 


20.10 


20.40 


20.70 


21.00 


21.80 


40 


26.00 


26.20 


26.60 


26.00 


26.40 


26.66} 
88.88} 


26.80 


27.20 


27.60 


28.00 


28.40 


60 


81.26 


81.60 


82.00 


82.60 


88.00 


88.60 


84.00 


84.60 


86.00 


85.60 


60 


87.60 


87.80 


88.40 


89.00 


89.60 


40.00 


40.20 


40.80 


41.40 


42.00 


42.60 


70 


48.76 


44.10 


44.80 


46.60 


46.20 


46.66} 
68.88} 


46.90 


47.60 


48.80 


48i)0 


49.70 


80 


60.00 


60.40 


61.20 


62.00 


62.80 


68.00 


64.40 


56.20 


6600 


66 80 


90 


61.26 


66.70 


67.60 


68.60 


69.40 


60.00 


60.80 


6120 


62.10 


68.00 


6890 


100 


62.60 


WM 


64.0C 


66.00 


66.00 


66.661 


67.00 


6S.00 


Qg^QO 


moo 


7100 


WTcT 


1.46 


IcT 
1.48 


T^cT 


76 ot. 


77 ot. 78 ci. 
1.64 1.66 


7»ot. 


TooT 


WoT 


WoT 


"T 


1.44 


1.60 


1.62 


1.68 


1.60 


1.62 


1.64 


8 2.16 


2.19 


2.22 


2.26 


2.28 


2.81 


2.84 


2.87 


2.40 


2.48 


2.46 


4 2.88 


8.92 


2.96 


8.00 


8.04 


8.08 


8.12 


8.16 


8.20 


8.24 


8.28 


fr 8.60 


8.66 


8.70 


8.76 


8.80 


8.86 


8.90 


8.96 


4.00 


4.06 


4.10 


6 


482 


4.88 


4.44 


4.60 


4.66 


462 


4.68 


4.74 


4.80 


4.86 


4.92 


0* 
f 


6.04 


6.11 


6.18 


526 


682 


6.88 


6.46 


6.58 


6.60 


6.67 


6.74 


8 


6.76 


6.84 


6.92 


6.00 


6.08 


6.16 


6.24 


0.82 


6.40 


6.48 


6.66 


9 


6.48 


3.57 


6.G6 


8.76 


6.84 


6.98 


7.02 


7.11 


7.20 


729 


7.3«J 


10 


7.20 


7.80 


7.40 


7.60 


7.60 


770 


7.80 


7.90 


8.00 


8.10 


8.20 


11 


7.92 


:i.08 


8.14 


8.26 


8.80 


8.47 


8.68 


8.69 


8.80 


8.91 


9.02 


12 


8.64 


'<.76 


888 


9.00 


9.12 


9.24 


9.86 


9.48 


9.60 


9.72 


9.84 


18 


986 


9.49 


9.62 


9.76 


9.88 


10.01 


10.14 


10.27 


10.40 


10.68 


10.66 


14 


10.06 


10.22 


10.86 


10.60 


10.64 


1078 


10.92 


11.06 


11.20 


11.34 


11.48 


16 


10 80 


10.96 


11.10 


11.26 


11.40 


11.66 


11.70 


11.85 


12.00 


12.15 


12.80 


16 


11.62 


1168 


11.84 


12.00 


12.16 


12.82 


12.48 


12.64 


12.80 


12.96 


18.12 


17 


12.24 


12.41 


12.68 


12.76 


12.92 


13.09 


13.26 


18.48 


13.60 


13.77 


18.94 


18 


12 96 


18.14 


18.82 


18.60 


13.68 


13.86 


14.04 


14.22 


14.40 


14.68 


14.76 


19 


18.68 


18.87 


14.06 


14.26 


14.44 


14.68 


1482 


16.01 


16.20 


16.88 


16.58 


20 


14.40 


14.60 


14.80 


16.00 


16.20 


16.40 


16.60 


16.80 


16.00 


16.20 


16.40 


26 


18.00 


18.26 


18.60 


18.76 


19.00 


19.25 


19.60 


19.76 


20.00 


20.25 


20 60 


80 


21.60 


2190 


22.20 


22.60 


22.80 


23.10 


28.40 


28 70 


24.00 


24.30 


24.60 


40 


28.80 


2920 


29.60 


80.00 


80 40 


80.80 


81.20 


8160 


32.00 


82.40 


32.80 


60 


S3.0U 


86.60 


87.00 


87.50 


88.00 


88.60 


89.00 


39.60 


40.00 


40.60 


41.00 


60 


48 20 


43.d0 


44.40 


46.00 


46 60 


46.20 


46 80 


47.40 


48 00 


48.00 


49.20 


70 


60.40 


61.10 


6180 


62.60 


63.2( 


63.90 


64.60 


66.80 


66.00 


66.70 


67.40 


80 


67.80 


68.40 


69 20 


60.00 


60.80 


61.60 


62.40 


63.20 


64.00 


64.80 


66.60 


90 


64.80 


66.70 


66.60 


67.50 


68.40 


09.80 


70.20 
78.00 


71.10 


71.00 


72.90 


73.80 


100 


72,00 


73.00 


7400 


75.00 


76.00 


n.oo 


79.00 


80.00 


81.00 


85J.Q9 



NoB|B8(| 


2 


1. 


8 


2. 


4 


8. 


6 


4. 


6 


4. 


7 


6. 


8 


6. 


9 


7. 


10 


8. 


11 


9. 


li 


9. 


18 


10. 


U 


11. 


16 


12. 


16 


18. 


17 


14. 


18 


14. 


19 


16. 


20 


16. 


26 


20. 


30 


24. 


40 


88. 


.6» 


41. 


60 


49. 


70 


68.: 


80 166.' 


90 174.' 


100 1^ 


iSfoS 


Wc 


2 


1. 


8 


2. 


4 


8. 


6 


4. 


6 


5. 


7 


6. 


8 


7. 


9 


8. 


10 


9. 


11 


10. 


12 


11. 


18 


12. 


14 


18, 


16 


13 


16 


14 


17 


16 


IS 


16 


19 


17 


20 


18 


25 


28 


30 


27 


40 


87 


60 


46 


60 


66 


70 


66 


80 


174 


90 


188 


WO 


|98 



11IAI>7 HEOKONEB. 



NamlMra to- 
ilet opposlt* 
lecflOO, and 



If the N'amber required ie noilbnnd In the Tablet, «dd two Nnmbert to* 
gether ; for initanoe, if 86 boahels are reqaired, add the prices opposite 
90 and 6 tomther ; and so for 805 bushef^-^treDte the vuae of 100, and 
add 00 and 6 together. 



70 ot. 


7ict. 


1.40 


1.42 


3.10 


2.18 


2.80 


2.84 


8.50 


8.66 


4.20 


4.26 


4.90 


4.97 


6.00 


6.68 


680 


6.89 


7.00 


7.10 


7.70 


781 


8.40 


8.62 


9.10 


0.28 


9.8) 


9.94 


10.60 


10.66 


11.20 


11 JM 


11.90 


12.07 


12.80 


12.78 


18.80 


18.49 


14.00 


14.20 


17.60 


17.76 


21.00 


21.80 


28.00 


28.40 


86.00 


85.60 


42.00 


42.61) 


48.00 


49 70 


6600 


66 80 


68.00 


6890 


70.00 


71.00 


JTcT 


Wot: 


1.62 


1.64 


2.48 


2.46 


8.24 


8.28 


4.06 


4.10 


4.86 


4.92 


6.67 


6.74 


6.48 


6.66 


729 


7.8S 


8.10 


8.20 


8.91 


9.02 


9.72 


9.84 


0.68 


10.66 


1.84 


11.48 


2.16 


12.80 


2.96 


18.12 


3.77 


18.94 


4.68 


14.76 


6.89 


16.68 


6.20 


16.40 


0.26 


20 60 


1.80 


24.60 


2.40 


82.80 


0.60 


41.00 


3.00 


40.20 


8.70 


67.40 


4.80 


65.60 


2.90 


78.80 


1.00 


«J.(JO 



N08| 


8ict. { 


)4ct. 


85 ot. 


86 ot. 87 ot. 


Btiot. 


88 ot. 


89 ot. 


90 ot. 


diet. 


92 ot. 


2 


1.66 


1.68 


1.70 


1.72 1.74 


1.76 


1.76 


1.78 


1.80 1.82 


1.84 


.8 


2.49 


2.62 


2.65 


2.28 , 2.61 


2.6U 


2.64 


2.67 


2.70 2.78 


2.76 


4 


8.82 


8.86 


8.40 


8.44 8.48 1 8.60' 


8.62 


8.66 


8.60 8.64 


8.68 


6 


4.16 


4.20 


4.25 


4.80 4.86 4.87i 


4.40 


4.46 


4.60; 


4.66 


4.60 


6 


4.98 


6.04 


5.10 


6.16 ' 6.22 > 5.26 


6.28 


584 


6.40 


6.46 


563 


7 


6.81 


6.88 


5.96 


6.02 


6.09 6.12J 


\ 6.16 


6.28 


6.80 


6.87 


6.44 


8 


6.64 


6.72 


6.80 


6.88 


6.96 1 7..^ 


7.04 


712 


7.20 


7.38 


7.88 


9 


7.47 


7.66 


7.65 


7.74 7.88' 7.W*I 7.92 


8.01 


8.10 


8.19 


8.28 


10 


8.80 


8.40 


8.60 


8.60 1 8.70' 8.76 


8.80 


8.90 


9.00 


9.10 


9.20 


11 


9.18 


0.24 


9.86 


9.46 ; 9.67 1 9.62^1 9.68 


9.79 


9.90 


10.01 


10.12 


14 


9.96 


10.08 


10.20 


10 82 ' 10.44 10.50 


10.66 


10.68 


10.80 


10.92 


11.04 


18 


10.79 


10.92 


11.06 


11.18 11.81 11.871 


\ 11.44 


11.67 


11.70 


11.88 


1196] 


^M 


11.62 


11.76 


11.90 


12.04 12.18 12.26 


12.82 


12.46 


12.00 


12.74 


12.88* 


.16 


12.46 


12.60 


12.76 


12.90 18.05 


18.12 


k 18.20 


18.86 


13.60 


18.65 


18.80 


16 


ia28 


18.44 


18.60 


18.76 18,92 


14.00 


14.08 


14.24 


14.40 


14.56 


14.72 


a7 


14.11 


14.28 


14.46 


14.62 14.79 


14.87 


i 14.96 


16.18 


16.80 


15.47 


16.64 


•18 


14.94 


16.12 


16.80 


16.48 , 15.66 


16.75 


16.84 


16.02 


16.20 


16.88 


16.66 


19 


16.77 


16.96 


16.16 


16.84 ! 16.68 


16.63 


i 16.73 


16.91 


17.10 


17.29 


17.48 


■20 


16.60 


16.80 


17.00 


17.20 


17.40 


17.50 


17.60 


17.80 


18.00 


18.20 


18.40 


125 


20.76 


21.00 


21.26 


21.60 


21.75 


21.87 


i 22.00 


22.26 


22.60 


22.76 


28.00 


80 


24.90 


26.20 


26.60 


26.80 


26.10 


26.25 


26.40 


26.70 


27.00 


27.80 


27.60 


;4U 


88.20 


88.60 


84.00 


84^40 


84.80 


85.00 


86.20 


86.60 


86.00 


86.40 


86.80 


i6fr 


41.60 


42.00 


42.50 


48.00 


48.60 


48.75 


44.00 


44.60 


46.00 


45.50 


46.00 


60 


49.80 


60.40 


61.00 


61.60 


62.20 


62.50 


62.80 


68.40 


54.00 


64.60 


55.20 


70 


68.10 


68.80 


69.60 


6C 


1.20 


69.90 


61.26 


61.60 


68.80 


68.00 


68.70 


64.40 


.80 


66.40 


67.20 


68.00 


6£ 


1.80 


69.60 


70.00 


70.40 


74.20 


72.00 


72.80 


78.60 


90 


74.70 


76.60 


76.60 


Ti 


^40 


78.80 


7876 


79.20 


80.10 


81.00 


81.90 


82.80 


100 


88.00 


84.00 


8 


5.00 


8( 


1.00 


87.00 


87.6C 


88.00 


89.00 


90.00 


91.00 


93.00 


Tfw 


BBoT 


WS\ 


1* 


WoT 


TTct. 


T 


nrr 


98 ct. 
1.96 


woi"i fi. 


V^* 


TBT 


T 


1.86 


1.88 


1.90 


1.92 


1.04 


1.08 


2. 


4. 


6. 


a 


2.79 


2.82 


2.86 


2.88 


2.91 


2.94 


2.97 


8. 


6. 


Oi 


4 


8.72 


8.76 


8.80 


8.84 


8.88 


3.93 


8.66 


4. 


8. 


12. 


5 


4.66 


4.70 


4.76 


4.80 


4.86 


4.90 


4.96 


6. 


10. 


16. 


6 


6.68 


6.64 


5.70 


6.76 


6.82 


6.88 


5.94 


6. 


12. 


18. 


7 


6.61 


6.68 


6.66 


6.72 


6.79 


6.86 


6.98 


7. 


14. 


21. 


8 


7.44 


7.52 


7.60 


7.68 


7.76 


7.84 


7.93 


8. 


16. 


84. 


9 


8.87 


8.46 


8.66 


B.64 


8.78 


8.82 


8.91 


9. 


18. 


27. 


10 


0.80 


9.40 


9.60 


9.60 


9.70 


9.80 


0.90 


70. 


20. 


80. 


11 


10.28 


10.81 


10.4E 


10.66 


10.67 


10.78 


10.80 


11. 


22. 


83. 


12 


11.16 


11.28 


11.40 


11.52 


11.64 


11.76 


11.88 


12. 


24. 


86. 


18 


12.09 


12.22 


12,86 


12.48 


12.61 


12.74 


12.87 


18. 


26. 


88. 


14 


18,02 


18.16 


18.80 


18.44 


18.68 


18.73 


18.86 


14. 


28. 


42. 


15 


13.96 


14.10 


14.26 


14.40 


14.65 


14.70 


14.86 


16. 


3>. 


45. 


16 


14.88 


16.04 


16.20 


16.86 


16.62 


16.68 


16.84 


16. 


82. 


48. 


17 


16.81 


16.98 


16.16 


16.82 


16.49 


16.66 


16.88 


17. 


84. 


61. 


IS 


16.74 


16.92 


17.10 


17.28 


17.46 


17.64 


17.82 


18. 


36. 


64. 


19 


17.67 


17.86 


18.06 


18.24 


18.48 


18.62 


18.81 


19. 


88. 


57. 


20 


18.60 


18.80 


19.00 


19.20 


19.40 


19.60 


19.80 


20. 


40. 


60. 


26 


28.26 


28.60 


28.76 


24.00 


24.26 


24.60 


24.76 


26. 


60. 


76. 


80 


27.90 


29.20 


28.60 


28.80 


29.10 


29.40 


29.70 


80. 


60. 


90. 


40 


87.20 


87.60 


88.00 


88.40 


88.80 


^.20 


89.00 


40. 


80. 


120. 


60 


46.60 


4700 


47.60 


48.00 


48.60 


49.00 


49.60 


60. 


100. 


160. 


60 


66.80 


66.40 


67.00 


67.60 


68.20 


68.80 


69.40 


60. 


120. 


180. 


70 


66.10 


65.80 


66.60 


67.20 


67.90 


68.60 


69.80 


70. 


142. 


210. 


80 


74.40 


76.20 


76.00 


76.80 


77.60 


78.40 


79.20 


80. 


160. 


240. 


90 


88.70 


84.60 


86.60 


86.40 


87.80 


88.20 


89.10 


90. 


180. 


370. 


m 


wm 


9i« 


K) 


8». 


w 


9( 


(.90 


J 


>7.00l 
9 


89.09 


99.00 


m. 


aoo. 


m 



BOANTLINQ BEDUOltt^ tQ 01^ ikcM BOARD UBASTai. 

EK7Ainx!i!rd AjiTi) toniss insAStmft ' 

EZPLANATlON.^TojiiQertain the number of I'eet of SokatilBg or Tte' 
liOT. wnj 18 Fwt.X'Ong; yul ? b7 8 XnehM. VipA 2 br 8 In tbt top 
eolataina, i&d 18 in th«Ten hand oolomn, and nndjor 3 by 8 and acalust 

Xi ib« SdintSLr Ui lonjnr tkan Mnkio^H in the' Table* add two Mittu 
together. If sadrter, take part ef some length. 

r , ' . ; ; , ' '. '.,,','..,■ i ; , r ; ' . .' ; ":.;■: '' . 

y TBioKinub auD width ik xxoitxs. 

e ii.)iii 2:4 2i sie l7 ii'a.9 8.818.4 3^5 8.6 s.7 sj sis 44 




OT 



€ 
7 

8 



10 
11 
IS 
13 



88. 
88.6 



4d.6 
66. 

ao.6t 

7L6 
14177. 

Ifi 82.6 

16 88 

17 ii)a6 

18 i99. 

19 104.6 

20 110 

21 116.6 

22 121. 
28 126.6 



t 40.6 

7 47.8 

8 64. 

9 60.9 

10 67v61 

11 74:8 

15 81. 
IJ 87.9 

14 94.6: 

16 101.81 
1( 166. 

17 iM.u: 
H 121.6] 

15 128.8<: 
2( 186. 



141; 



162.1 



\i 



8 120; 

9 186. 

10 160. 

11 ; If 

15 18 

ij m 



14 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 

M 



21 



31 



EAsuai. 

la. 

iBg or Tilt- 
in UN top 

wolngtha 



J 8l9 4 



.6 18.1 



.8801 



im 



I, 






TBIOKnuS AHO WIDTH IS I1IOHB0. 




^ms 



lit 

i 120. 

9 185. 

10 160. 

11 las. 

12 m. 
iJ lis. 

14 210. 

15 22S. 

16 240. 

17 265 

18 ,m 

19 285. 

20 '3C 
» 3] 




lOf 



1 . . . t . . T . . I 




7, 
71; 8 

286VV 
299ilD 
8l3'ti 
888. 




4 

8758 



UM 



ICi? 



16.16 16.16 



im.9' 
187.8 



2818 

800 

818 9 

837.6 

8588 

875 

8988 

m 

«50. 



480-. 



BOABD AND PLANK MEASUREMEKT-AT SIGHT 

this Table glrm the Sq. Ft. and In. In Board from 6 to 16 in. wtd <, and from (t to 36 ft. lonf 
If a board be longer than 86 ft., nnlte two numbera. Thni, If a Board la 40kft lonR »nr 
10 In. wide, add SO and 10 and you hare OS ft. 4 In. 7or t-ln Plank doable th.< product 



1^ 


61nW 


7inW 
ft. in. 


8inW 


91nW 


lOlnW 


lllnW 


i2inW 


ISinW 


14 in W 


l6inW 


ft. in. 


ft in. 


ft. In. 


ft. in 


ft, in. 


ft in. 


ft. In. 

8 8 


ft. In 


ft. in. 


8 


40 


4 8 


64 


60 


6 8 


7 4 


80 


9 4 


10 


9 


46 


6 8 


60 


69 


7 6 


8 3 


90 


9 9 


10 6 


11 8 


10 


60 


6 10 


68 


76 


8 4 


9 2 


10 


10 10 


11 8 


12 6 


11 


66 


6 6 


74 


83 


9 2 


10 1 


110 


11 11 


12 10 


12 9 


12 


60 


7 


80 


90 


10 


11 


12 


18 


14 


16 


18 


66 


7 7 


88 


99 


10 10 


nil 


18 


14 1 


16 2 


16 8 


14 


70 


8 2 


94 


10 6 


11 8 


12 10 


14 


16 2 


16 4 


17 6 


16 


76 


8 9 


10 


lis 


12 6 


18 9 


16 


16 8 


17 6 


18 9 


16 


80 


9 4 


10 8 


12 


18 4 


14 8 


16 


17 4 


18 8 


200 


17 


8 6 


9 11 


114 


12 9 


14 2 


16 7 


17 


18 6 


19 10 


213 


18 


90 


10 6 


12 


18 6 


16 


16 6 


18 


19 6 


21 


226 


19 


96 


11 1 


12 8 


14 8 


16 10 


17 6 


19 


20 7 


22 2 


289 


20 


10 


11 8 


18 4 


16 


16 8 


18 4 


200 


21 8 


28 4 


260 


21 


10 6 


12 8 


14 


16 9 


17 6 


19 8 


21 


22 9 


24 6 


268 


22 


\n 


12 10 


14 8 


16 6 


18 4 


20 2 


220 


28 10 


26 8 


27 6 


2d 


13 6 


16 4 


17 8 


19 2 


21 1 


280 


24 11 


26 10 


289 


24 


12 


14 


16 


18 


20 


22 


240 


26 


28 


800 


26 


12 6 
1^0 


14 7 


16 8 


18 9 


20 10 


22 11 


260 


27 1 


29 2 


81 3 


26 


16 2 


17 4 


19 6 


21 8 


28 10 


260 


28 2 


80 4 


826 


27 


18 6 


16 9 


18 


20 8 


22 6 


24 9 


27 


29 8 


31 6 


389 


28 


14 1 


16 4 


18 8 


210 


28 4 


26 8 


280 


80 4 


82 8 


860 


29 


14 6 


16 11 


19 4 


219 


24 2 


26 7 


290 


81 6 


88 10 


868 


80 


16 


17 6 


200 


226 


26 


27 6 


800 


82 6 


85 


876 


81 


16 6 


18 1 


20 8 


288 


26 10 


28 6 


810 


88 7 


86 2 


889 


82 


16 


18 8 


214 


24U 


26 8 


29 4 


820 


84 8 


87 4 


400 


£8 


16 6 


19 8 


220 


249 


27 6 


80 8 


830 


86 9 


98 6 


413 


84 


17 


19 10 


228 


266 


28 4 


81 2 


84 


86 10 


89 8 


42 6 


86 


17 6 


20 6 


284 


268 


29 2 


82 1 


860 


87 11 


40 10 


439 


86 


18 


21 


240 


27 


80 


83 


880 


89 


42 


460 



BOARD TABLE MEASUREMENT— CoHTimjXD. 



SI 


16lnW 
ft in. 


l7lnW 


ISlnW 


19inW 


20inW 


21inW 


22inW 


28inW 


24inW 


125 inW 


ft. in. 
11 4 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


ft. In. 


ft in. 


8 


10 8 


12 


12 8 


13 4 


14 


14 8 


16 4 


16 


16 8 


9 


12 


12 9 


13 6 


14 3 


16 


16 9 


16 6 


17 8 


18 


18 9 


10 


13 4 


14 2 


16 


1610 


16 8 


17 6 


18 4 


19 2 


200 


20 10 


11 


14 8 


16 7 


16 6 


17 6 


18 4 


19 3 


20 2 


21 1 


220 


22 11 


12 ^ 16 


17 


18 


19 


200 


210 


22 


28 


24 


26 


13 


17 4 


IS 6 


19 6 


20 7 


218 


229 


23 10 


24 11 


260 


27 1 


14 


18 8 


19 10 


210 


22 2 


234 


246 


26 8 


26 10 


28 


29 2 


16 


200 


21 3 


22 6 


23 9 


260 


263 


27 6 


28 9 


800 


31 3 


16 


214 


22 8 


240 


26 4 


268 


280 


29 4 


30 8 


820 


83 4 


17 


228 


24 1 


26 6 


2611 


284 


299 


81 2 


82 7 


84 


36 i 


18 


24 


26 6 


27 


28 6 


300 


316 


33 


34 6 


860 


37 « 


19 


25 4 


26 11 


286 


80 1 


318 


833 


84 10 


86 6 


880 


89 1 


20 


268 


28 4 


800 


81 8 


834 


860 


36 8 


88 4 


40 


^1 1 

43 9 


21 


28 


29 9 


816 


33 3 


860 


869 


88 6 


40 3 


420 


22 


294 


31 2 


880 


84 10 


86 8 


386 


40 4 


42 2 


44 


46 10 


^ 


30 S 


82 7 


84 6 


36 6 


384 


403 


42 2 


44 1 


460 


47 11 


820 


34 


360 


38 


400 


42 


44 


46 


480 


60 


26 


834 


85 5 


87 6 


89 7 


41 8 


439 


46 10 


47 11 


60 


62 1 


26 


348 


86 10 


890 


41 2 


484 


466 


47 8 


49 10 


62 


64 2 


27 


86 


88 8 


406 


42 9 


460 


47 3 


49 6 


61 9 


640 


66 3 


28 


87 4 


89 8 


420 


44 4 


468 


490 


61 4 


,63 8 


66 


68 4 


29 


888 


41 1 


43 6 


46 11 


484 


609 


68 2 


66 7 


68 


60 6 


$0 


4U0 


43 a 


460 


47 6 


600 


616 


66 


67 6 


600 


^ « 



LOi 

La 

If thelo 

Theflnt 

^rv» un( 

\wriM of in 

TbediAO 
i/bort of 20 

To find 
awed, tak 
liametar • 

Suppose 
MOlomn is 1" 
toards in i 




64 

69 

64 

69 

74 

79 

84 

89 

94 

99 

104 

109 

114 

119 

124 

129 

184 

189 

144 

149 

164 

169 



U 



¥ 


J^e 

26 


10 


283 


11 


811 


12 


340 


18 


869 


14 


897 


16 


426 


16 


466 


17 


483 


18 


612 


19 


641 


20 


669 


21 


698 


22 


827 


23 


665 


24 


684 


25 


713 


26 


742 


27 


7n 


28 


800 


29 


829 


^ 


868 
887 



'> 



LO«S ESDUOID TO RUMNINtf BOARD MBA8UR1. 



■^' 1 



N; 



K l6inW 


ft. in. 


I 10 


) 11 8 


) 12 9 


) 12 9 


) 15 


I 16 8 


1 17 6 


S 18 9 


3 200 


) 213 


) 226 


I 289 


1 260 


S 268 


3 27 6 


) 289 


) 800 


I 81 3 


\ 826 


} 389 


3 850 


) 868 


) 876 


i 889 


I 400 


i 418 


1 426 


1 439 


) 450 


V|2filnW 


1. ft. in. 


16 8 


18 9 


20 10 


22 11 


25 


27 1 


29 2 


31 3 


88 4 


35 i 


87 e 


89 1 


^1 1 

43 9 


45 10 


47 11 


50 


52 1 


64 2 


56 3 


68 4 


60 6 


^ « 



LOGS REDUCED TO ONE INCH BOARD MEASURE. 

If the log is longer than is contained in the table, take anj two lengths. 

The flrst oolamn on the left gives the length of the Log in fset. The 
Ignres under D denote the diameters of the Logs in inches. Fractional 
tiarts of inches are not given. 

The diameter of timber is usnalljr taken 90 fbet flrom the butt. All logs 
i4iort of 20 f)Bet, take the diameter at the top, or small end. 

To find the number of foet of boards wnioh a log will produce when 
awed, take the length of feet in the flrst column on uie left nand, and the 
Jiametar at the top of the page in inches. 

Suppose a log ISTfeet long and 24 inches in diameter. In the left hand 
Molumn is the lensth, and opposite 12 under 24 is 800, the number of feet of 
voards in a log or that length and diameter. * 



Uti 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


D. 


b. 


D. 


D. 


,s^ 


12 


13 

66 


14 
76 


16 
93 


16 

104 


17 

"no 


18 
187 


10 
164 


20 
179 


21 
194 


22 
210 


28 
287 


24 


10 


64 


266 


11 


69 


72 


88 


102 


114 


131 


161 


169 


196 


218 


281 


261 


270 


12 


64 


78 


90 


111 


124 


148 


164 


184 


214 


282 


262 


285 


80O 


18 


69 


84 


97 


120 


184 


164 


177 


199 


281 


261 


278 


808 


827 


14 


74 


90 


104 


129 


144 


166 


191 


214 


249 


270 


293 


882 


860 




15 


79 


96 


111 


138 


154 


177 


204 


229 


266 


289 


814 


8J6 


876 




16 


84 


102 


118 


146 


164 


189 


217 


244 


284 


806 


885 


879 


401 




7 


89 


108 


126 


165 


178 


200 


231 


269 


801 


827 


866 


402 


496 




8 


94 


114 


133 


164 


183 


212 


244 


274 


819 


846 


877 


426 


461 




9 


99 


121 


140 


178 


198 


228 


267 


289 


886 


866 


498 


449 


477 







104 


127 


147 


183 


203 


236 


271 


804 


854 


884 


419 


478 


601 




1 


109 


188 


154 


191 


213 


247 


284 


819 


871 


408 


440 


497 


637 






114 


189 


161 


200 


228 


259 


297 


884 


889 


422 


461 


620 


662 




8 


119 


145 


168 


209 


233 


270 


811 


849 


407 


441 


681 


642 


668 




4 
5 


124 


151 


176 


218 


243 


282 


824 


864 


424 


460 


602 


668 


618 




129 


167 


188 


227 


253 


293 


837 


879 


442 


479 


628 


691 


628 




6 


184 


163 


190 


,236 


263 


306 


850 


894 


469 


498 


644 


616 


663 






189 


169 


197 


246 


273 


316 


863 


409 


477 


617 


666 


639 


678 




k8 


144 


175 


204 


254 


288 


828 


376 


424 


494 


636 


686 


668 


708 




19 


149 


181 


211 


263 


293 


339 


389 


489 


612 


666 


607 


687 


728 




M) 


154 


187 


218 


272 


303 


351 


i 


m 


464 


629 


674 


628 


711 


768 




tt 


169 


193 


226 


2B1 


318 


362 


' 


16 


4( 


t9 


647 


693 


649 


786 


J78 


1 


S 


MJ* 


M^9 


*J» 


TJT 


T5r 


MJt 


~1). 


T 


'i. 


1 


^* 


n 


'• 


T5. 


T5T 


1 


26 


26 

809 


27 
389 


28 
859 


29 

sn 


30 


31 


82 


83 


84 

496 


86 


86 


10 


288 


407 


440 


466 


486 


643 


678 


11 


811 


840 


874 


396 


41£ 


) 447 


484 


602 


636 


646 


698 


680 


12 


840 


871 


408 


432 


46£ 


1 489 


628 


648 


684 


696 


663 


688 


18 


860 


404 


442 


469 


491 


630 


672 


694 


638 


646 


708 


746 


14 


897 


485 


476 


606 


62S 


► 571 


618 


640 


682 


696 


762 


803 


15 


426 


466 


611 


541 


667 


612 


662 


686 


781 


746 


817 


861 


16 


465 


496 


546 


678 


60E 


^ 653 


706 


782 


780 


796 


872 


919 


17 


488 


627 


679 


614 


64£ 


1 694 


761 


778 


829 


846 


927 


976 


18 


612 


668 


618 


650 


681 


786 


796 


824 


878 


896 


981 


1034 


19 


641 


690 


647 


688 


718 


1 776 


839 


870 


927 


946 


1086 


1093 


20 


669 


621 


687 


724 


767 


817 


884 


916 


976 


996 


1091 


1148 


21 


598 


652 


716 


760 


79fl 


859 


928 


962 


1025 


1046 


1146 


1206 


22 


827 


684 


750 


796 


834 


900 


972 


1008 


1074 


1096 


1200 


1264 


28 


665 


715 


784 


833 


872 


941 


1017 


1054 


1128 


1146 


1265 


1318 


24 


684 


746 


818 


869 


91C 


982 


1061 


1100 


1172 


1196 


1310 


1376 


25 


718 


777 


853 


906 


948 


1028 


1106 


1146 


1221 


1246 


1366 


1434 


26 


742 


808 


887 


942 


986 


1064 


1149 


1192 


1270 


1296 


1420 


1492 


27 


771 


889 


921 


979 


1024 


1105 


1193 


1238 


1819 


1846 


1475 


1560 


28 


800 


870 


956 


1016 


1062 


1246 


1237 


1284 


1868 


1396 


158) 


1608 


29 


829 


901 


989 


1052 


1100 


1187 


1281 


1830 


1417 


14^^ 


1585 


1668 


10 


858 


932 


1028 


1088 


1188 


1228 


1325 


1376 


1466 


1496 


1640 


1724 


1 


^1 


887 


9o3 


1067 


1125 


1176 


I2t 


!9| 


Vi 


1691 


1 


m\ 


11 


■m 


X 


m\ 


1 


S95 1 


\M 



% 



XQUAL BIDX8 Tll^blft HBAl^Ulli.^MJAKt IRttl, 

80LID c^itniMti ot* liiQtJAi:. bim» timbek. 

irtbe Log Uibortcr tliMi Is c •^•d is the tabic. tek« teljf Of ojMtrtsr 
ofiome Icdcth. it Umgtr <loiibi< oin« leoffth. Tbe toogib of tb«Xog Is 
glveo on tbe top of tbe oolumni ; e diameter la tb« left baad oolvm. To 
obtattt the CuUeltl CoBteftta of utaaU, Bpttn, Koiuid JLog*, Ao., Mifetraot 
oiie*fourtb flrom tbe Oonlento. 



6 
7f 



8 

9 

10 

11 

1% 



L. 




a 

I 

6 



1» 

14 a 

II 4 

U 6 

17 8(0 

18 a 



r 







19 

ao 

aa K) 

8« 18 
34 16 
as 89 

26 laa 

27 16 7 

as 190 



39 13 668 



30 169 



L. 

10 



3 
8 
4 

5 
6 
8 
10 
11 
18 
16 
19 

ao 
at 



6 31 

37 

780 

3 88 

0i>6 

40 

48 

46 

60 

64 



63 01 



6 

4 

4 

9 
10 

4 

01 

7 

7 

9 
1Q18 

038 

6 


10 

8 

6 

8; 

044 
448 

1161 
866 
6 
4 





100 0106 .8113 6 



CAST IBON. 

WmOHT 09 ▲ IraOT in LKMOTB OV flat dABT IBOil. 



vrutiiof 

Iron. 



ImIms. 



Tble|(, 
Mtblnnb. 



S-Mulndk. 



10 



Tlilek. 
Mlnci. 



Thick, 



jMua inch. 



rtnAiM. 



Tidflki 
1-»ihn inoh 




R6ir. 



UotmmrUf 
)ftb«LogJa 
oolumi. To 
ko., Mibtraot 



L. 


L. 


19 


9» 


4 9 


' 6 


8 e 


6 10 


e 8 


' 9 8 


V)io 


11 ft 


13 


18 8 


16 11 


16 9 


19 


ao 


gf 


,28 5 

261 n 


s ? 


it 


%l 


^h 


48 7 


'52' 


w 9 


'68 


i i 


67 


$ 9 


78 6 


ra Q 


80 


82 5 


86 9 


$ 


98 8 


oS 8 


!!3'i 


if 11 


117 8 


1$ 9 


1|U Q 



V, 





Thick. 


lOh, 


1 iBlth. 


«: 


vofitai 


I 


708 


7 81 


I 


8 69 


): 


9.87 


I 

I 


10 16 
li'M 


y 


11.71 




12 60 


■ 


18 28 


: 


14 06 




14 84 


■ 


16 62 




16 40 




17.18 




17 96 




18 76 



WEIGHT Q7 0Jt$,tOO^ qr FJ^1T BAB IBON. 

Tf n B<ir of Iron be thidker thtn eontalned In tba Table, add together 
thf M uiglit of two Mnniben. or tteiblAtbo weigbt of one Mamber. wanted 
the weight of 1 foot of Bar Iron, 4 inebee broad and 2 M Inebci tbtok. 
<>n>otite 4^and nnder 1 la 18464, whtoh donblad la 98>7S8i ad4 tba walgbt 
of Mtb (8^1). eqnal 80^)68 Ibe. 



>'A\'.]\ !M'A V r^ 




THIOKlTBBa XH PAB^ 09 All IHOR. 



=!?= 



TTT 



ten 

6.2U 
6676 
6^ 
T202 
7.616 




i 



4884 

4.749 
Q114 
h479 
6.846 

S216 
676 
6941 
7806 
7 



2.988 
8.987 
8.668 
<;018 
4884 
4.749 
6.114 
6.479 
6.846 
6.210 
6676 
6 941 
7.806 
7.671 
8086 
8.402 
8.767 
9486 
10228 
10.969 
11690 

& 

18 881 
14.612 

16 848 
16.078 
16.804 

17 686 



lln. 

8.840 
8.766 
4.176 
4.692 
6.008 

'^-^ 

6!684 

7.100 

7.620 

7.986 

fr.86a 

8.772 

9.188 

8608 

10024 

10.860 

11.692 

19.628 

18.884 

14.196 

16.082 

16.864 

10700 

17.686 

18.8?2 

J 9.204 
0.042 



WEIGHT or/Dsra aoPA^iE f ooT^or.^ByET iBoy.Ao. 

Thie|cn.9M . j ibe i|lnn]uii^ia|B flCng.lWtre Qv»fi 




1^.60 
14 60 
18.76 



12 00 
890 



8 



11,00 
12.75 



[8.2012.10 



10,00 
11.60 
11901 



8.74 

10.10 

861 



6 

9.40 
998 



7.60 
8. 
8.! 6 



8 



6.86 
7 90 
7.64 




!i0 11 12 18 14 



6.00 
6.80 
6.60 



4.88 
6.06 
4.61 



8.76 
4.84 
4.12 



&12 
8.60 
8.48 



Tbl<)ki|b88 bf tho Wire Gange. 



Iron, 

Cop. 

,Prag8 



16 16 17 18 19 20 21 ^ 23 24 S6 96 



282 
8 27 
8,10 



2 60 
290 
2 76 



2 18 

2 

2 



ss 



1. 

2 16 
2 04 



1 70 1 64 
1 87 1 78 
1 87 1 



40 



1.25' 

1:41 
1.6411 8 



1.12 
1.80 
1 28 



1 00 
1 IS 
1 10 



90 
1.04 



.80 
.80 

.88 



27 28 29 



.72 

88 
.79 



.64 

.74 
.70 



.6ft 
.64 
.61 



80 



,60 
68 
,66 



No. 1 Wire Gauge is 6-imhs of an ia(;h: No. 4 is l-4th; No. 11 Is l-8th : 
16 i9 l-14tb : No, 16 Is l-16th : No 17 li M8th ; No, 18 



50, 18ifll-12th: No 1 
1-28. No. Ii2 IS 1-89. 



I ! 



15 



wiioax or baa iftON aicd othsa MitAtfl. 

BtTSSIA SHEirr I^ON 

IfeMurM 66 by 38 Inflhei, and ii rated by th<f weight p«r Bh««t. The iittm< 
ben run from 8 to 18 Karalan Ibe. per ■taoet. 8 Bunaian pounds equal 7.3 
Engllah poundei 9-8.1 Ibe.; 19-» Ibe.; U-10 Ibe.; 12-11.2 Ite.. Ao.~ 
100 RuMian Ibe. equal 90 Ibe. EngUe h. 

WEIGHT or ONE SQUARE FOOT Of FLATS IRON, Ao. 





1- 
P 


J 

2.6 


• 


1 


t 




1 


1 c 


i 


• 

1 


'tV 


2.0 


2.7 


8.7 


iV 


17.6 


20.8 


19.0 


26.9 


k 


6.0 


6.8 


6.6 


7.4 


i 


20.0 


28.2 


21.8 


29.8 


tV 


7.6 


8.7 


8.2 


11.1 


i 


26.0 


28.9 


27.1 


87.0 


i 


10.0 


11.8 


10.9 


14.8 


I 


80.0 


84.7 


82.6 


a.k 


ft 


12.6 


14.6 


18.6 


18.6 


\ 


86.0 


40.4 


87.9 


67.8 


1 


16.0 


17.4 


16.8 


22.2 


1 


40.0 


46.2 


48.8 


60.2 



WEIGHT ONE FOOT IN LENGTH OF SQUARE ^.ND ROUND 

BAR IRON. 






h 
%. 

i 

f 

H 

\ 

M 

\ 

\% 
1 

^ 



s 


§•9 


.209 


.164 


.826 


.266 


.470 


.869 


.640 


.608 


.886 


•666 


1.067 


.881 


1.806 


1.026 


1.679 


1.241 


1.879 


1.476 


2.206 


1.783 


2.668 


2.011 


2.986 


2.806 


8.840 


2.624 


4.228 


8.821 


6.219 


4.099 


6816 


4.961 


7.616 


6.918 



Is 

§1 



1» 
1| 

' ^ 

2 
h 

H 

2} 

Si 

21 

2« 

2i 
8 

8* 
8i 

^ 






8.820 
10.229 
11.744 
18.860 
16.088 
16.909 
18.840 
20.876 
28.116 
26.269 
27.608 
80.070 
82.618 
86.279 
88.045 
40.916 
48.890 
W 



h 



6.928 
8.048 
9.224 
10.496 
11.846 
18288 
14.797 
16.886 
18.146 
19.842 
21.684 
28.668 
26.620 
27.709 
29.881 
82.170 
84.472 



9.S 



8| 
81 

4 

4* 

44 
4* 
H 

4| 

41 

H 

6 

5i 
6i 
61 
6 



S 



i 

a 



46.969 
60.168 
68.440 
66.888 



68.980 

67.687 

71.446 

76.369 

79.878 

88.610 

92.469 

101.086 

110.429 

120.248 



86.896 
89.890 
41.984 
44.687 
47 886 
60.211 
68.ir,2 
66.118 
58.287 
62.844 
66.685 
72.618 
79.870 
86.731 
94.610 



if: 

CAST 1 



SlM. 



The weight of B«r Iron beinf Ii 
'« " " Ust Iron = .W 
" •' " Steel. I.OS 

w •• <« Copper, MM 



Incbee 
Square. 



1 

1 

i 

2 

f 
I 

8 
8 

? 

I 

4 
4 



SlM. 



lb. 



2 



WSI0U7 01* ROUND AND bQUABE CAflt HSloU* 



CAST mOS^ Tf eight of • Foot In Lenf 'h of Square and Bound. 



t==a—« 

SQUABE. 




BOUND. 


Siae. 


Weight. 


SU 


e. Weight. 


Sire. 


Weight. 


Slse. 


Weight. 


Inohfli 
Square. 


Poundf. 


Inot 

L<qu« 


5J Pound!. 


Inches 
Dlam. 


Pounds. 


Inches 
Dlam. 


Pounds, 


' 


.78 


4| 


74.9(5 




.61 


a 


68.82 




1.22 


6 


78.12 




.96 


V 


6186 




1.76 


5 


82.08 




1.88 


5^ 


04.46 




2.89 


6 


8618 


■ 


1.87 


6 


. 


07.84 




8.12 


6 


90.^ 


r 


2.45 






70.09 


1 


■ 


8.96 


C 


94.53 




1 


8.10 


5t 


74.24 






4.88 


6 


08.87 


1 


■ 


8.88 


61 




77.66 


\i 




5.90 


5 


108.82 


1 




4.64 


6 




81.14 


X 




7.08 


5 


107.88 


1 


' 


6.62 




84.71 


\ 




8.26 


6 


112.60 


1 




648 


9 88.86 


J 




9.67 


6 


.122.06 


1 




7.61 


^ 6^ 96.87 


i 




10.98 


6 


182 08 


1 


, 


862 




108.69 


2 12.60 1 


6 


142.88 


2'' 


9.81 


aI 


111.82 


^ 




14.11 


7 


153.12 


2 




11.08 


7 


120.26 


2 


' 


16.81 


7 


164.26 


2 


, 


'12.42 


T' 


129. 


2 




nm 


7 


176.78 


2 




18.84 


7 


188.05 


2 




19.63 


7 


187.88 


2 




lb.88 


7 


147.41 


2 




21.50 


8 


200.12 


2 


■ 


16.91 


8 


167.08 


2 




28.68 


^ 


212.66 


2 




18.66 


a 


167.06 


2 




26.88 


A 


225.78 


2, 




20.&d 


8 


177.10 


I 1 


28.12 


8f 


289 26 


? 


22.18 


8 


187.91 


S 


■ 


80.61 


9 


268.12 


8 


28.96 


9 


19S.';9 


lii 




88. 


9 


267.88 


8 


26.92 


^i 


210. 
221.50 


» 




86.59 


9 


282. 


9 


27.95 


n 


8 




88.28 


9 


JW7.07 


H 


80.16 


9! 


288.31 


K 




41.0G 


10 


312.50 


8 


82.25 


10 


246.43 


8 




48 94 


m 


328.82 


8 


84.61 


10 


267.86 


^ 




46.92 


Id 


344. i8 


t 


86.86 


10 


270.59 


1: 1 


60. 


10} 


861.13 


4 


8927 


10 


288.63 


4 




68.14 


11 


378.12 


4 


. 


41.76 


11 


296.97 


4 




66.44 


11 


896.60 


4 




44.27 


111 


810.03 


4 




69.81 


11 


413.78 


*\ 




46.97 


llj 


224 69 


4 




68.28 


11 


4gl.44 


i 


t 


49.70 


11} 


888.86 


4 




66.84 


IS 


450. 


4 


■ 


02.50 


12^ 


868.48 


4 




70.5!; 






4 


65.87 







' STEEL.-.Weisht of a Foot in length of F!«t. 



Slse. 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Sldti 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Thick, 


Win. 


3-8tbB. 


1-2 in. 


5-8ths, 


1-4 in. 


8-8ths. 


1-2 In. 


6-8th9. 


lb, 


PAs. 


Pds 


Pds. 


Pdij. 


In. 


Pds. 


Pds. 


Pds. 


Pds. 




.853 


1.27 


1.70 


2.13 


% 


2.13 


S.20 


4.26 


6,32 


1 


.958 


1.48 


1.91 


2.89 


2.84 


8.51 


468 


685 




1.06 


1.59 


^,13 


i;.o6 


8 


2.56 


8.88 


5.11 


6.89 


ij 


1.17 


1.76 


2.84 


2.92 


8 


2.77 


4.16 


5.53 


6.92 




1.27 


1.91 


2.56 


•3.19 


8 


2.98 


4.47 


6.98 


7.45 




1.49 


2.28 


2.98 


3.72 


3 


8.19 


4.79 


6.38 


7.98 


2 


1.70 


2.55 


8.40 


4.26 


4 


8.4() 


6.10 


8.80 


8.52 


n 


1.91 


2.8y 


8.88 


4.79 













17 



Ursiaar of iixTAid. 






BRASS, <?OPP£R 


, STSEI 


., A17D L£AD.- 


- Weight of a Foot. 




nsAps. 


qOPPKB. 


STKKL. 

» 


LEAD. 


DUm«t«r 
•nOid* 


yrtMit 


W^^t 


w-^t 


W«ljfht 


W^U 


'Vf«lght 


Weight -^elght 


ofS^iun. 


Koond. 


Squur*. 


Cotmd. 


Bqtuure. 


^ond; 


Squan, 


Romid. 


Square^ 


laehM. 


Lba. 


Lbs. 


Lfef. 


LlM. 


LbiL: 


J-W. 


L^ 


lilM. 






.17 


.92 


.19 


.24 


.17 


.21 






' 




.89 


.60 


.42 


.64 


.88 


.48 






. 




.70 


.90 


.76 


.96 


.67 


.86 










.1.10 


1.40 


1.17 


1.60 


1.04 


1.33 










1.69 


2M 


1.69 


2.16 


1.60 


1.91 










2.16 


2.76- 


2.81 


2.94 


2.06 


2.61 






1 


2.88 


8.60 


8.02 


3.84 


2 67 


8.40 


8,87 


4.93 


\ 


1 


d.68 


4.66 


8.82 


4.86 


8.38 


484 


4,90 


6.26 


. 


4.4S 


6.68 


4.71 


6. 


4.18 


6.32 


606 


7.71 






6.85 


6.81 


6.71 


7.27 


6.06 


6.44 


7fS3 


9.33 


1 




6.88 


8,10 


6.79 


8.66 


6.08 


7.67 


8172 


11.11 


J 




7.47 


9:61 


7,94 


10.16 


7.07 


9 


10.24 


13.04 


fl 




8.66 


1108 


9.81 


11.77 


8.30 


10.14 


.li;87 


16.13 


f 




9.95 


12.66 


10.61 


18.62 


9.41 


11.98 


.13 63 


17.36 


2 


11.83 


14.41 


12.08 


16.88 


10.71 


18 63 


16.51 


19.76 


-» 


12.78 


16.27 


18.64 


17.36 


12.06 


16.80 


17.61 


22.29 


2 


14.82 


18.24 


16.29 


19.47 


13.61 


17.20 


19.63 


26. 


2 


i&M 


20.83 


17.03 


21>69 


16.06 


19.17 


21.80 
24.24 


27.80 


2 


17.68 


22.68 


18.87 


24:08 


16.68 


21.21 


80.86 


2 


19.60 


24.88 


20.81 


96.60 


18.89 


8841 


26.72 


84.03 
87.84 


2 


21.40 


27.26 


22.84 


29.08 


20.18 


26.76 


29 83 


2 


28.89 


29.78 


24.92 


81.79 


22,06 


28.10 


E.06 


40:81 


8 


26.47 


82.43 


27.18 


84.61 


24.28 


80.60 


84.90 


44.44 



CAST IRON.— Weight qfa SuperflcicU Footfrom^ to 2 inches thick. 



BUe. 
Int. 



Weifht 



Pounds, 

9.87 
14.06 
18.76 



Sice. 


Weight 


Ins. 

1 


Pounda. 

28.43 
2812 
!S2.81 



BiM. 



Ina. 



w 



Weight 



Pounda. 

87.50 
42.18 
46.87 
18 



SlM. 



Ins. 
If 

II 



Weight 



Pounda. 
61.66 
66.26 
60.98 



She. 



Zna. 

It 



Weight 



Pounda. 
66.62 



&s 




11 


4 


QB 




2 


— 


2* 


1 


8 


1 


8i 


2 


4 


J 


*i 


4 


6 


e 


6 


c 


7 


i( 


8 


K 


9 


17 


10 


21 


11 


2e 


12 


3C 



Bar I 

Cast Iron 

8teel 

Copper 

firass 

Lead 



lUlnr*. 


■3 
Wdfbt 
per foot* 


achM. 


lbB.018. 


1 


5 


4 




6 


( 


• 


< 


7 


Sil 


^ 


11 


r 


1 


13 


)i 


16 


r 


a 


18 


4 


•4« 


20 


> 




.22 



ihea thick. 


Ue. 
nt. 

P 


Weight 


Pounds. 
65.62 



OAST IIION OOLliUMS. MOLDSR's f ABttt. 

DIMENSIONS OF CYLINDRICAL COLUMNS OP OAST IRON TO 
SUSTAIN A PRESSURE WITH SAITETY, 



II 

§ ^ 
2 


LENGTH OR HBIOHT IN ITKIET. 


4 1 


6 1 8 1 10 1 12 1 14 1 16 1 IS i 20 


22 1 24 


WEIGHT OB LOAD IN 0WT8. 


72 


60 


49 


40 


82 


26 


22 


18 


15 


13 


11 


2* 


119 


106 


91 


77 


66 


56 


47 


40 


34 


29 


26 


8 


178 


163 


145 


128 


111 


97 


84 


7S 


64 


66 


49 


84 


247 


282 


214 


191 


172 


166 


136 


119 


106 


94 


88 


4 


826 


810 


288 


266 


242 


2^ 


198 


178 


160 


144 


130 


*k 


418 


400 


379 


364 


827 


801 


276 


251 


Mft 


208 


189 


5 


522 


501 


479 


452 


427 


394 


865 


887 


810 


286 


262 


6 


607 


592 


673 


650 


626 


497 


469 


440 


418 


886 


360 


7 


1082 


1013 


989 


£59 


924 


887 


848 


808 


766 


726 


686 


8 


rass 


1315 


1289 


125& 


1224 


1186 


11^ 


1097 


1062 


1006 


969 


9 


1716 


1697 


1672 


1640 


1G08 


1561 


1616 


1467 


1416 


1864 
1756 


1311 


10 


2119 


2100 


2077 


2046 


2007 


1964 


1916 


1865 


1811 


1697 


11 


2670 


2650 


2520 


2490 


2450 


2410 


2868 


2806 


2248 


2189 


2127 


12 


3050 


3040 


3020 


2970 


2930 


2900 


2830 


2780 


2780 


2670 


2600 



Practicalutilityqfthe Table. 

.^ote.— Wanting to support tbe front of a building with cast iron columns 
18 feet in length, 8 inches in diameter, and the metal 1 inch in thickness ; 
what weight may I confidently expect each column capable of supporting 
without tendency to deflection ? 

Opposite 8 inches diameter and under 18 feet=1097 
• Also opposite 6 in. diam. and under 18 leet= 440 



* This deduction is on account of the core. 
MOLDER'S TABLE. 



=657 ewt. 



Bar Iron being 1, 

Cast Iron equal .96 
Steel " 1.02 
Copper " 1.16 
Brass " 1.09 
Lead " 1.48 


Cast Iron being 1, 

Bar Iron equal 1.07 
Steel " 1.08 
Brass " 1,16 
Copper " 1.21 
T^ad " 1.66 


Yellow Pine being 1, 

Cast Iron equal 12. 
Briss " 12.7 
Cc^per " 13.3 
Lead " 18.1 
Zinc " 11.5 



1. Suppose I have an article of plate iron, the weight of which is 728 
lbs., but want the same of copper, and of similar dimensions, what will be 
its weight? 

728 X 1.16 s 844.48 lbs. 

2. A model of Dry Pine weighing 3 lbs., and in which the iron for its 
construction forms no material portion of the weight, what may I anti* 
cipate its weight to be in oast iron. 

3 X 12 B 36 pounds. 

It frequently occurs, in the construction of models, fhat neither th« 
quality or condition of the wood can be properly esUmkied ; and in such 
oases, it may bo a near enough approximatiMi to reolton 13 lbs. of oast 
iron to each pound of model. 

1» 



WOOD AND BA2K B|BASUREMENf >, 



0» Mao'> 






*>« © 2 * 
So 

U Hi 

• f>w; a ^-^ 




1 2 3 fe -" •£ ?1 

■-; :i) 3 a; "~ ♦^ >» 



fe ''^ t> 

^§« T 



f 

00 

i 

§ 

•fc* 

i 






so t-lr-lt-H>HrHr-<t-lr-<i-<i-li-I^P^ 



00 rH— II— IrHi-li-li-Hi-lrHi-tr-ti-l 

e 53 1- CO 00 CO <3> -^ OS 



CO 

§ 



g 



i 
^3 




•ac553M^W<ioSioS«3f2i-»®So>^SS£2i^S^eoeS 

OS rHrHi-(.-l— <r-ll-(r-» 



•.ss^roe<SOT^'*»Oi5co«5«oi-t~ooaoososoooi-if-ic-v---4o5 

«0 . _ _rH rH rl rH r-l r^ r-l 1-f 

as^^>-^''J'*'*SiOiow«oi-i-i-ooaoososoooi-ir-Nev» 

eO 1^1— I i-H rH r-l r^ 



O i-t i-l fH 1-t 1^ i-l 



< D _ _ _rHI_»-<r-l 

■MC<ic4C4rara@^^'«Su3S«D>ci-t'-t^aoScoos^asoo 

CO """r^ 

•5«cNC<icoc>5e'o^'^'<*<»ou5o®«5«oi^i-i--aoooaoos«oso 



|aIIlWS^5ff^I^f^i^^H^lf 



ciAWvci 



GO OS OS 



i 00 t-l ■^ t- O CO CD OS (M Iffl OO rH •* I- Q eO to (» N m 00 !-; :* t- o 

>.-Hc<ic'iei»eoeiseo55«*<'*»*<»0«o»o®«5w«oi-t~i'-ao«>ooos 



ai~oeo5DOSi-c^*it—Qrocoaoi-^'*i-oe!aioooi-i->*<i-oc<iio 



CO 



gcoosf-i^i-.gseqot'.QCoiooor-icoepos'^'ti-dscaiot-o 

^rHrHM^Mj3coei5eOTH'#«*<^OU5Su'5«DcD«5Sl-l^t--00 

■MPWWMM—j— iJW^MW^— IWW<IMi^»*^W»W!Wl H H i m w I M P i<«*H'»|MTI>"i^^ 

e usooo CO »Q Qois » u5 goQ eoiqooQes»5ooocoiQcopeo»o 
.SrHrH«c<i^e<i«oo«i«5^^^'^ji3u5»nS©cD«52i~i--i-- 



a^c©os^eooooQeO'«i>>Qe<i-^t-osrH-*«DaQi-tojiooc 
» fe 



eeoint-oc-i-^tiSoooojiob-os'^optpopow^eoosi-teoi© 

CO 






% 

12 



^^^^^^^^o^^^^^^^o^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Ri^^o 



Ttt'^USO 



ai 

CO 

aOOOSiHNCOiOCDt-OSOr-tCO'^UJt-OQOS'-'C'IMiOrCit-gsO 







,^' i t£ o iM ■^ «D flo o o iM '*< «D 00 o o e>i ■«*" «o 00 o o e<i -* CO 00 o o 
5i • '^ "^ '"' "*' 

5; I ^ rH r-i rH rH 1-1 i-H ©KM 01(MC<1(N CO CO CO. eo CO 00 •^|J^-*.^Tj<jiiC 



! 



Fxnmple, — How many corfis of 
wood in a pile 60 l"pet long, U left 
high and 4 feet wide? 



2fr 



60 
6 

360 
4 

128) U40 Hi cords. 



a 

oi 

o 

Q 

(4 

M 

Q 

< 

Q 
O 
C 

o 



VALUE OP WOOD AND BARK. 



l-l-l-COOOOO 




... UJ «? I-- © o 

4 oS w CO «3 -^ , 



tH '*• Tl* ji IC , 



o 

Q 



C4 

u 

UJ 
(4 
< 

Q 

-< 

Q 

O 

c 

ft 

o 
-J 



•fl 









0) 

-s 

o 

O 



.a 



- u 

rs 
a 





a 

o 

a 

OS 



H 2 



o 

►- ?! 
O O 
« « 

'■" 9 
— o 

s I 

* * 

•0-.2 
^ P. 

^^ 



a o 

is * 9 

M3 a O 

2 "^ rt 

B >-' S 

H o 2 

a) . "o 

A « * 

« 3 w 

♦^ M •'S 

•!->?-<*- 

S O W2 

,0 Vi o 



1 

O 



Tl 



o s s 

a is -J 
« 






s> 



s 



© 
so 

3 






g «i-.eegt^gcog5geg25i55gg5gggcgjggg«^gjg5 






i-4pHe4e4e<'<7co«tOto«ot»t'>t»aoo 



l>-^ 



S?38S!«SSfeitSS8g3gi^Sri«JSS§55S^SS 



rHr-((MC^iMe0e0'*'*»O«Oi»»— l-0OO> 



S ^';2:53g5SS?S«SSgS^SS3S3aSS8?8 






8 



<^i-tC<IC4C409CO^^'^kOO Vt^t^O 






'SSSS?85!SSSS^S88S8Sl28g88S8S98S 



lO (»rHl-eQaD^QlO»Hl-..-<eOOr^l-p«OSOeO<DOOO^CD'*IO 



n 



N 



i-<rt.-<e^cflc«eoeoeo«#i»oici. xjt- 



SSg3Sg??855SSSSi2SSSaS§8SS5'2;jS8 

i-i pH»H«Mefl en eoeoeo •<«»■* »o»o tot- 



kOOiO 



pHr-i^e4CQCQ^9koaooiawo^to3ff4>oc>u3a5c>®S5 
i-ir-trHciwNcoeoeo^i'^'^uyioto 



taoio 



SSSSJaSS3!5?2SSSSg«3:§gS53SSSS8!j;S 



»Hi-<i-(c^NN«eoeo^'f^>o» 



tOOi-^Oi 



;!i^^^^^^^]^s^2^^^^s^^&s^^s 



i-ir-irHefle«e<ieoeoe<S'*'<*«»<«o«e 



"^ 0> CO I' 



i-ii-hSmtoM»^S 



S09aoe4eotoQQtai-4'^i^eoorHQ 

OOC^CoE-Or-lSl-O^SOrlTOOOnS 

r-t.-i.-icqwcnc*coeo«o*/'i'«o 



c<l«Di-(U50>eor-i>-iepMeOr-i-*i-»»oix>coi-.ooiJS'^o«iO 
r-ir-tcie4c<ioocO'<«<Saocslcova30'^wacc<ivabrHiSeI 



iHi^i-ir-iNeiNNeoeoeo"*^^ 



S'*occ<i«eoeor-cHiOO»ooaDi--«05Dao«e*oeocoi-iu3rigoo 
p^r-i«ff5Neo«oeo<»i-i-iMiooo5s«25i-i-iioi-o»55o 



i-irHi-4rHr-<c<ie»c<ieoeoe<?cO'*'«o 



■* I - 1-1 >* 00 rl 



i-i'*ooi-uQaQ53iOcoo«oeOi-iOJCo-H«Qepi-(W90ca*Q 
i-HrHr-<M5»NTOC<5««l--O-^'*«0l--rHe3l'*i00r-l55»0CbM5 



r-t pH p-t 1-1 ^ ca N « N CO eo eo eo ^ 



iHi-iiHrHr-trHNMNeiCOeocOiJ' 



«>«»S5SSSJ9g5SSS358^SS8§SSSS82SS 



<cie»Ne««oeoeoT»t 



f^i-iT-<iHi-«»i^<MNiMe<ie<ieo 



8 '^'«^-«*?3SSSSS§§^f2t235SS^SS3Ba^^S^ 



INCOiNiMeO 



*"*«"«S?3SSSSSgJSSSI5gt:ia 



t- <o «o go lO J5 
eo »o I- 



egbsgss 



(MM 



c.M.^i-o>^g;*»j:;OOjgg5gc5^ogg«§55;oggjDr^. 



<c^ 



g o»eoo«5<x>«-5cg^j5^r;jjgjj{Ooo^gg^5JOgjog 



<w 



,H«co^o«..-.ooo>ogggg5aogg^o§f.^ggj^g5 



o 
o 



^ 4a 4J -l-T ^ .fc' 4^ 

^ ^ r^ I i M 

M CO ♦ U5 «0 t-OO 



21 



oi8TiRir8^toBXWs-~€tmici OR toiio kiAatras. 



OAPACITT 09 GIBTKIDfS All D MSSfSXVOlBS IN OALIiONS. 
IHpth,WaiiDhe»:— Diameter ftwn 2 U> a Feet. 



2 


fe«t 


i»,6 


( 


flMt 183.40 


8 fleet 8188ih 


12 flwt 


706. 


1!* 




80.6 


61 


" 148.10 


8J ;• 868.72 


18 " 


8274 


8 
9k 




^ 


6 
6* 


" SIS 


8 *' 886.66 

9k " 4g.40 

10 " 480.20 


14 " 

16 •• 


efiO.6 
1101.6 


4 




78.88 


7 


" 888.88 


20 ", 


1968.4 


4* 




88.14 


7* 


" 276.40 


11 " 688.40 


26 •' 


8068.9 



NUMBER OF THREADS IN Y-THREAD SCREWS. 



Di«ii.iniiMlMM. i A i -h k i I i 1 li H 1} 

No.OfthKMMH aO 18 16 14 12 11 10 9 8 7 7 6 

^un.intaM|^ li l| 1} II 2 2i 2^ 2! 8 8} si 

No. of thrWBte. 6- 6 6 4f 4* 4 7 8> 8i 8} 8} 



Ditm. In iseliM 8f 

No. of tlirei^ 8 



8 4 9 2} 8} 4 M M 2^ 

" ■ " t" ; ' ■ " H II I I I I — ) I ■' — r — ._ _ 

Tne depth ^t Hm threads ahonld be h«lf their pitch. The diioieter of a 
serew, to work la the taefh.of a whert, AovM be raoh, that the angle of 
the thread! does not exoeed 10* 

OUBIC. OR SOUP IBBASfTRE. 

_To And tteOiWe^Content in a Stick of Tender, Block of Stone, Box, 

Mn, *e. If aUjOie Ptaienstoos are in Feet, mulUplT the Lenith by the 

B|0*dth, ahd this product bjr the i>epth to obtain the nnmberof Ciibio 

If«hfr Lei^h is ta Feet and the irtdthand depth in inches, mhttlplF the 
Iffigftti by the width andtiiis Produet by the depth in inches,— then diride 
thcHast Frodttot by 144 tot the CnMo f%et. If all the Dim^stons are in 
Fe^t and Inehes rednoo the whole to Inches, then multiply the Lenirth. 
Breadth and Depth together^ and -'.vide the Product by I7i» to obtain the 
Cnbi9Feet. 

ReqHdred ttio number of onbio feet in a box, etone, fcc, 4^ fket long, 2k 
iwt wide Mid 8 net deep* 

4-6 X 2JS X 2 >» 22^ eii6ic/M«. 

To find the oatMcity of a Mn, dsMf-n, tamner's vcU, fee., find its (interior) 
oaUo oontents In ln%f . by the preoedhig rules, tiieii if th« capacity be 
rd^piired in aaUone, divide tiie imole number of iuvies by 281: — if in 
bttdielBf by mO.48.— or, if in heaped bushels, by 2747'10. 

Or. If the interior of a eooJMtf be 4 fe^t in l«ntfth, 41 inches in brMdth. 
and 88 Inches in drath ; then, 

4 X 41 X 82 X *O0684 - 86^ cubic 39et. »8000 lbs., or 1 tun of Beaver 
Meadow or Lehioh Ck>al. 

. 1 CuUo Fopt'OfFeaoh Mountain CoiU, broken or screened Sbr Stoves, 
w^hs 64 pohuds^ and requires 87 onble feet cf sj^iedto stow one ton o^ 

Coal is boi«ht at wholesale at the rate of 2i40 pounds to the ton, and 
sold at retail at the rate of 2000 pounds to the ton, eereined. 
. Or, if the interior of a crUt be 6^ feet in length, 8} feet in breadth, and 
8| feet in depth ; then. 

6-6 X 8-76 X 8% X *80S66»i 68-6622 (or 68^ hushels ftnd k pack,) 
Tbe Solid Contents of all bodies, which are of unifortn bigness through' 
,(mt, wtotever may be the^form of tit^ends is found by muttipHing the 
taiea of one end into its height or length. 

144 inches equal (») 1 square foot, (or, ttred.) 
, . 1728 inches liqual(«»)l cubic foot, (or, «M<<f«on<eh<«.) 

^ . 22 



Utras. 

GALLONS. 



flMt 



705. 
8374 

ese.e 

1101.6 
1968.4 
8068.9 



,ws. 




7 7 


6 


3 8i 
Si 8} 


ii 


51 6} 

^ 8 


6 
2i 



diimelwr of a 
i tjbe angle of 



f Sfone, Box, 
W& by the 
iber or Ciibio 

>nttittlply-tbe 

—then (UTide 

Sistons are in 

the Length, 

to obtain the 

|ftetlong,2i 



i its (interior) 
4 oapacitT be 
' 281; — if in 

BslnbrMdth, 

n of Beaver 

i fbr Stoves, 
m one ton o^ 

the ton, and 

breadth, and 

1 i PMk,) 
aen through' 
Ittp^ng the 



rt<«.) 



