l3(,i'.C' 



THE 



HELPING HAND 



A COLLECTION OP 



RARE AND VALUABLE RECIPES 



COMriLED PROM 



ENTIRELY RELIABLE AND AUTHENTIC SOURCES 

MANY OF THEM J.3 ^S^ ^"^i 

NOT TO BE OBTAINED ELSEWHEKE. 



BY EDV/IN A. TEALL. 



BUFFALO: 4 
WAKREN, JOHNSON & CO., PRINTERS. 

Office nf the Dally Courier, 197 Main Street. 

J873. 



^ 






Kntered according to Act of Congi'es3, in the ye;u- one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two 

Bt EDWIN A. TEALL, 

In the Office of the Libniriiin of Congress, at VVasl-.ington. 

"AxL KiGiiTS Reseuved." 



^" CAUTION.— All infringements on this copyright will be prosecuted to the Aill ei^nt 
of the law. A reward of $100 will be paid to any one detecting an infringement, upon conviction 
of the violator. 



THE HELPING HAND. 



Silver Plating' Fluid. — Dissolve one oz. of crystalized Nitrate of Silver 
in twelve ozs. of soft water. In this dissolve two ozs. of Cyanuret of Potasli. 
Shake Avell together and let it stand five hours. A four-oz. bottle, half full of 
fine whiting must then be filled witli the mixture, and when well shaken it is 
ready for use. After washing an article with this mixture, rinse in soap-suds. 

Fruit Preserver. — Mix two lbs. of white sugar with one-fourth of an oz. 
of Sulphite of Lime, and sprinkle upon each gallon of fruit, after preparing it 
in the ordinary way for canning. Place it in stone or earthen vessels, and cover 
with a cloth. This is as good as canning and far cheaper. To keep fruit from 
moulding, saturate the cloth with spirits. In preparing fruit for canning, use 
one lb. of sugar to four lbs. of fruit, and enough water to keep from burning. 
The following is the time required for boiling fruits, and the quantity of sugar 
to the quart: Cherries, .5 min., 6 oz.; Raspberries, 6 min., 4 oz.; Blackberries, 
G min., 6 oz.; Strawberries, 8 min., 8 oz.; Plums, 10 min,, 8 oz.; Whortleberries, 
5 min., 4 oz.; Pie Plant, (sliced,) 10 min., 10 oz.; Pears, (small, sour, whole,) 30 
min., 8 oz.; Bartlett Pears, (halved,) 20 min., 6 oz.; Peaches, 8 min., 4 oz., Avholo, 
15 min., 4 oz.; Pineapples, (sliced,) 15 min., C oz.; Crab Apples, 25 min., 8 oz.; 
Sour Apples, (quarters,) 10 min., 5 oz.; Currants, (ripe,) 6 min., 8 oz.; Grapes, 
(wild,) 10 min., 8 oz.; Tomatoes, 30 min., no sugar; Gooseberries, 8 min,, 8 oz,; 
Quinces, (sliced,) 15 min., 10 oz. 

Strawberries will grow faster and larger by sprinkling upon the vines in 
dry weather a mixture composed of one tablespoonful of Blue Vitriol, dissolved 
in twelve quafts of water ; let the water stand in the sun ten or twelve hours 
before putting in the vitriol. 

Housewife's Friend. — Save the expense and trouble of sending your tin 
and copper ware to the tinsmith to be repaired, by dissolving in two oz. of Mu- 
riatic acid as much Zinc as possible, then add one oz. each of Sal Ammoniac and 
Ammonia. Around tlie hole or place to be mended clean away all grease and 
dirt, wet the article with the fiuid, put on a piece of solder, and hold a lighted 
candle or other flame under it until the solder melts. 

To Re-cut Files. — Place them in lye and boil half an hour, then wash 
and dry them. In a mixture composed of four ozs. Sulphuric Acid and one qt. 
of soft water, let them remain : fine files, six or eight hours ; coarse, twelve or 
fourteen hours. Wash and oil them. They will be nearly as good as new. 

Ladies' Favorite. — To one lb. of Soda Ash (or Sal Soda) add one-half lb. 
unslacked Lime and five qts. water ; bring to boil, carefully settle and turn off 
the liquid. To a boiler full of clothes, (after being soaked in clear water,) add 
one teacupf ul of the fiuid, and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Soap should be 
previously rubbed on the collars and wristbands of shirts. Rinse and hang out 
to dry. if the clothes are extraordinarily dirty, rub them a little. This fluid 
is warranted not to injure the slightest fabric, 



THE HELPING HAND. 



Fancy Glycerine Toilet Soap. — Place one gallon of clear soft water on 
the fire, bring to a boil and add four pounds White Bar Soap, (shaved up fine,) 
three drachms Salts Tartar, two drachms Spirits Turpentine, six drachms Spirits 
Ammonia, and one oz. each of Sal Soda, Borax, Spermaceti, and Glycerine. 
Boil all together until dissolved, then take one gill of hot soap and as much 
Chinese Vermilion as will lie on a silver five-cent piece, mix well together and 
stir it into the soap as it is placed in vessels. Perfume to suit. 

Laundry Pearl Polish. — Take two drs. powdered Acacia, one dr. Isin- 
glass dissolved in water, four ozs. Spermaceti, and two ozs. White Wax ; melt 
together in a clean dish, strain through a cloth, run into molds or strips, and it 
is ready. Put a piece the size of a pea into a pint of Starch, when boiling. 
When ironing, pass the iron over briskly and you have a beautiful gloss. 

French Enamel for Shirt Bosoms.— Melt together with a gentle heat, 
one oz. White Wax and two ozs. Spermaceti. Prepare, in the usual way, suffi- 
cient starch for twelve shirt bosoms, i)ut in a piece of tlie Enamel the size of a 
large pea, and in like proportion for a larger ironing. Clear starching is done 
by rinsing the articles to be starched carefully in three waters ; then dip tliem 
in the starch, which should be previously strained through muslin, squeeze, 
shake them gently, and hang up to dry ; when dry, dip them in clear water, 
again squeeze them, spread out on linen, roll up, and let them remain an hour 
before ironing. In ironing, use highly polished irons. You will be astonished. 

Liquid Bluing for Clothes. — Take one oz. pulv. best Prussian Blue, 
one-half oz. pulv. Oxalic acid, one qt. soft water, mix. The acid dissolves the 
blue and holds it evenly in the water so that specking never occurs. One or 
two tablespoonfuls of it is suflicient for a tub of water, according to the size 
of the wash. This is preferable to any other Bluing, and is much cheaper. 

Diamond Washing SOtap. — Mix one lb. Concentrated Potash and two lbs, 
Sal Soda in three gals, soft water. Boil until dissolved, then add three lbs. of 
clean soap-grease, and boil from one to sis hours, or until it becomes beautiful 
white soap; keep about the same quantity of water in the kettle as at first ; 
then add two ozs. Liquid Ammonia, one-half lb. Borax, one-fourth lb. Resin, 
and nine gals, soft water ; stir well together. If the grease was clean this will 
be, when cool, a beautiful white soap. This amount costs about 75 cts., and is 
sufficient to last an ordinary family a year. The night before washing, put the 
clothes to soak in cold water, and if the collars and wristbands are very dirty, 
rub on them a little common soap, or put a small cjuantity of the " Diamond " 
in the water. Wring out the clothes in the morning. To every ten gallons of 
water add one qt. of the " Diamond ;" put in the clothes, and gradually raise 
the temperature of the water to a scalding point, stirring the clothes every few 
minutes. Drain them well, rinse twice in clear, cold water, blue them, wring, 
and hang out to dry. It is well to boil very dirty clothes ten minutes, but no 
longer, as it is apt to give them a yellow tinge. Should the wristbands require 
rubbing, it should be done' by hand before the water in the kettle gets ver.v 
hot. In using this Soap all fine clothes should be gone through with first, as 
colored or very dirty clothes should not be washed with those of finer fabric 
containing less dirt, for the Avater would partake of their contents, and render 
dingy the fine clothes. The water that has been used for the fine clothes will 
do for the coarse. When water is added to the wash kettle, a proportionate 
amount of the Soap must also be added. Follow these directions carefully and 
satifaction is guaranteed. These directions apply as well to the " Ladies' Fa 
vorite," given on the preceding page. 

Cream Soda. — A delicious beverage is made of six ozs. Tartaric Acid, the 
whites of four eggs beat up, and one gallon of water in which a tablespoonf ul 
of flour has been mixed. In a tumblfj^ two-thirds full of this stir in one-fourth 
of a teaspoonful of soda, and drink. 



THE HELPING HAND. 



Cream of Nectar. — Tak(^ two qts. of water, two lbs. wliite sugar, three 
ozs. Acetic Acid, and mix with one oz. Cream Tartar ; then stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of wheat flour previously wet up ; skim before boiling ; as soon as 
it boils remove it from the fire. When cool, add six teaspoonfuls of flavoring 
extract. To use, take a half-pint glass half full of cold water, add one table- 
spoonful of Nectar, stir in briskly one-fourth tcaspoonful of Soda, and drink. 

Cholera Kingf. — Mix thoroughly three drachms each of the tinctures of 
Capsicum, Opii, and Cardamon. Dose, thirty drops to an adult. This has 
cured the most severe cases of Cholera when administered in season. In dys- 
entery, or diarrhoea, give fifteen drops. In either complaint, repeat the dose 
every hour until relief is obtained. 

Diai'rliooa Cordial. — One oz. tinct. Paregoric, two ozs. tinct. Rhubarb. 
Sweeten. Dose, one teaspoonf ul every two or three hours. Mild and pleasant. 

A Wonderful Cure. — An old and respected lady, seventy odd years of age, 
residing in Western New York, after suffering with Chronic Diarrhoea for a 
number of years, and finding no relief, was speedily cured by a mixture com- 
posed of one oz. each of tinct. Catechu, simple Syrup, Syru}} of Rhvibarb, 
Paregoric, and twenty grains of Tannin. Dose, from one teaspoonful to a 
tablespoonf ul, as often as an evacuation occurs. 

Celebrated Cancer Cure. — Mr. Mason, of Milwaukee, Wis., brother of 
Lowell Mason, the well-known music composer of Boston, Avas cured of a Can- 
cer, after it been once cut out, and then reappearing, by the following process : 
A piece of sticking plaster was put over the cancer, with a circular piece cut 
out of the center a little larger than the Cancer, so that the Cancer and a small 
circular rim of healthy skin next to it were exposed. Then a plaster of Chlo- 
ride of Zinc, Blood root, and Wheat flour, was spread on a piece of muslin of 
the size of the circular opening, and applied to the Cancer for twenty-four 
hours. On removing it, the Cancer was found burned into, and appeared the 
color and hardness of an old shoe sole. The outside rim was white and par- 
boiled, as if scalded by hot steam. The wound was then dressed until suppu- 
ration of the outside rim took place, when the Cancer came out in a hard lump, 
and the place healed up. This plaster kills the Cancer so that it sloughs out 
like dead flesh, and never grows out again. 

Coughs and Consumption. — Boil two ozs. of Spanish Licorice in one qt. 
of water until dissolved, then add one-half oz. Salts of Tartar; bottle and cork. 

Take a Avinegiassf ul three or four times a day. This has cured severe cases 

Another — Mix equal quantities of Calisaya and Elixir of Iron ; take one or two 

drachms three times a day before eating Another — Boil down in two qts. of 

water equal quantities of Hoarhound, Sweet Balsam, Spanish Licorice, and the 
Iierb of Liverwort, to one qt.; take a mouthful of it when coughing, or thirsty. 
. . . .Another — A dry, hacking cough, at night, may be quickly stopped by eat- 
ing a teaspoonful of dry table salt Another — One oz. tinct. Lobelia, two ozs. 

linct. Bloodroot, two ozs. Syrup of Squills, two grains Acetate of Morphine ; 
dose, teaspoonful. Consumptives, beware of spirituous and malt liquors. 

Bone Felon. — On its first appearance put on a fly blister, one-half inch in 
size, for six hours ; you can then easily pick it out with a needle or penknife. 

Dyspepsia may be cured by mixing one drachm Nux Vomica and two 
drachms Nitrate of Bismuth ; divide into forty powders, and take one each meal. 
Assist nature by eating cucumbers, cabbage, rare done beef, and light suppers ; 
and avoid pastries, pork, beans, apples, milk, spirits, tobaccOj coffee, exposure. 

Toothache Drops.— One oz. Alcohol, one-eighth oz. Laudanum, five- 
eighths oz. Liquid Chloroform, one-half oz. Gum Camphor, one-half drachm Oil 
of Cloves, three-fourths oz. Sulphuric Ether, one drachm Oil of Lavender; mix, 
apply with lint, and rub it on the gums and face. Cures Neuralgia, Headache, 



THE HELPING HAND, 



Burns. — Cover the injured part with common varnish; it excludes the 
air, and forms a new skin, or cuticle. 

Corus. — These troublesome pests may be effectually removed b> rubbing 
ou occasionally Acetic Acid, or binding on a piece of fresh lemon, skin side out. 

(iermiin Rheumatic Fluid.— This celebrated remedy is made of one-half 
iiz. each Oil of Hemlock and Cedar, one oz. each Oil of Origanum and Sassafras, 
o>ie oz. Aqua Ammonia, one oz. pulv. Capsicum (red pepper), one-half oz. each 
Spirits Turpentine and Gum Camphor ; put all in a quart bottle and fill it with 
ninety-five per cent. Alcohol. This cures Rheumatism, Corns, Cuts, Sprains, 
Bruises, Weak Back, Leg Ache, Neuralgia, etc., by rubbing it thoroughly on 
for twenty or thirty minutes, twice in twenty-four hours, for two or three days. 

Diarrhoea and Colic Cordial. — One scruple Gum Camphor, one-fourth 
oz. Magnesia, one-half oz. Laudanum, twenty-five drops Anise Oil, six ozs. Loaf 
Sugar, one pt. warm water ; dose, adult, one tablespoonf ul ; child, one teaspoon- 
ful. One of the best remedies known, and costs only about 35c. per pint. 

firoeu Mountain Liniment. — This far-famed Liniment is made of two 
qts. ninety-eight per cent. Alcohol, one oz. each Oil Sassafras, Hemlock, Spirits 
Turpentine, tinct. Cayenne, Catechu, Guaiacum, and Laudanum ; four ozs. tinct. 
Myrrh, two ozs. Oil Origanum, one-half oz. Oil Wintergreen, two ozs. Gum 
Camphor, and one and one-half oz. Chloroform. This cannot be excelled for 
Ilheumatism, Neuralgia, Sprains, Bruises, Burns, etc. 

Celebrated Hair Invigorator. — To one-half pt. of Castor Oil add a suf- 
ficient (juantity of Alcohol or pure Brandy to cut it, and perfume to suit. A 
very simple preparation, and yet it is the best known for the hair and scalp. 

Sore Eyes. — Table Salt and White Vitriol, each one tablespoonful. Heat 
thf^ni upon oomier or earthen ware until dry, which drives off" the biting effect, 
;,,.i .liig ii .lui.i in its action. Add one-half pint soft water, one tablespoonful 
white sugar, and blue vitriol the size of a pea ; if too strong, add more water. 
Bathe the eyes with it three or four times each day. If the disease is of long 
standing, take a cathartic and jjurify the blood. 

Save tlie Trees and Bushes. — Boil in twelve qts. of water one-third of 
a lb. of Quassia, until the strength is out, then add sufficient soft soap to make 
a suds, and let it cool. Apply to trees, bushes and vines afflicted with worms, 
bugs, lice, etc. Dip the twigs into the pail, when possible, to save the fluid. 

An Excellent Disinfectant. — Washing the hands in and sprinkling the 
clothes with Chloride of Lime, will remove the odor of skunks, etc. 

Rhejimatic Embrocation. — Dissolve one tablespoonful of Soda, or Sale- 
ratus, in a t;';vjupful of hot Vinegar, and bathe the parts affected thoro,ughly, 
then saturate a piece of flannel and bind it on as hot as possible. Eepeat this 
treatment for two or three days. The worst cases have been cured by it. 

Blood Puritter. — The blood, we all know, is the fountain of life ; kept 
pure, there would be no chronic affections. Head the information as regards 
diet, given under the head of " Dyspepsia," and follow them. Then mix one 
oz. of Iodide of Potassa with one oz. of common Syrup. Dose, one teaspoonful 
two or three times, for one day only. Repeat this two or three times a year. 

Small Pox Pitting' Preventive. — Make a paste of Starch and cover the 
face, and over that put on another covering of oil silk to l\.eep out the air. Do 
Not Bre.vk the Pustules ! If strictly followed, this is a sure preventive. 

Tooth Paste. — To cure toothache without pain, and save the tooth, if it 
i.s lioUow, make a ;)a.stc of Gum Camphor, Gum Opium, and Spirits of Turpen- 
tine, and fill tlic tooth after each meal, after cleaning out the cavity, for two 
or throe days. The uerve will be insensibly killed. 



THE HELPING HAND, 



All-Healing' Salve. — Bitter Sweet and Sweet Elder roots, each, one and 
one-lialf lbs.; Hop vines and leaves and Garden Plantain tops and roots, each, 
one-half lb.; one oz. plug Tobacco. Boil all in rain water, press the herbs and 
throw them out ; then carefully boil down the liquid to half a pint. Add to it 
unsalted Butter, one lb.; Beeswax and Resin, each one oz.; simmer down over 
a gentle heat until all the water is out. This is the best Salve known for 
Fever Sores, Carbuncles, Swellings, Boils, Bruises, Burns, Wounds, etc. 

The Celebrated Hair Cnrlique. — Two oz. Borax, one drachm Gum Sen- 
egal in powder, one qt. hot (not boiling) water ; mix, and as soon as the ingre- 
dients are dissolved, add two ozs. Spirits of Wine, strongly impregnated with 
Camphor. On retiring to rest wet the locks with this liquid, and roll them in 
twists of paper, in the usual manner ; in the morning form them into ringlets. 
Fortunes have been made in the sale of this Curlique. It is excellent. 

Wliooping Cough. — Take equal portions of new milk and lye made from 
hickory ashes. Mix, and give to a child eight years old one tablespoonf ul each 
hour through the day. The relief is immediate, and a cure is etiected within 
five or six days. 

Hydrophobia. — Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of Chloruret of Lime in one- 
half pt. of water, and thoroughly and repeatedly bathe the part bitten. The 
poison will be decomposed. Dress the wound with Sweet Oil, and take inter- 
nally one-half teaspoonful of it every half hour for three hours. It has proved 
successful after the patient had been bitten six hours. Good in other poisons. 

Imitation of Gold. — Linseed oil three ozs., Tartar two oz., yolk of eggs 
(boiled hard and beaten) two ozs., Aloes one-half oz.. Saffron five grains. Tur- 
meric two grains ; boil all together in an earthen vessel. Wash an article with 
it and will look like gold. Add more Linseed oil if there is not sufficient. 

To Remove Warts or Corns. — Take the bark of common Willow, burn 
it to ashes, mix with strong vinegar and apply. 

Silvering Powder. — Precipitated Silver Powder one part, common Salt 
and Cream of Tartar each two parts : mix. Apply with friction, then wash 
the article silvered slightly with- alkalized water. 

Panes of Gclass may be easily removed by applying soft soap to the putty 
for a few hours, no matter how hard it is. 

To Preserve Smolied Hams in warm weather without bagging, apply 
Pyroligneous Acid with a brush, taking care to insert the liquid into all cracks 
of the under surface. 

Deafness has been cured by taking clean, fine black wool, dipjied in civet, 
and placing it in the ear. When dry wet it, and continue three or four weeks. 

The Best Tooth Powder is made of Prepared Chalk five lbs.. Cassia 
one-fourth lb., Bole two lbs., Bath Brick three lbs., Charcoal two lbs. A like 
propoi'tion for a less quantity. Reduce all to powder and sift through gauze. 

Certain Cure for Piles. — Powdered Opium 1 scruple. Flour of Sulphur 
two scruples. Simple Cerate one oz. Anoint, and be prudent as to diet. 

To Mend Cracks in Stoves, take equal parts of wood ashes and salt, 
mix them with water to a thick paste, and with it fill up the aperture. 

To Render Boots Waterproof, take boiled oil sixteen parts. Spirits of 
Turpentine and Venice Turpentine each two parts, Beeswax and Reein each 
one part ; melt, and rub in while hot. 



THE HELPING HAND. 



To Remoye Freckles. — Take tinct. Benzoin one pt., tinct. Tolu one-half 
pt., Oil of Rosemary one-fourth oz.; mix in half a gill of water, and rub well 
on the face with a towel, night and morning. 

The Real Coral Tooth Powder is made of Red Coral one oz., Chalk two 
ozs.. Bole one and one-half oz., Cansia four drachms ; mix, sift through gauze. 

Eye Water. — Alum water six grains, soft water, one oz Another — 

Nitrate of Silver four grains or less, soft water one oz Another — Sulphate 

of Zinc one part, soft water fifty parts. Snow or distilled water is preferable. 
In either of the above, apply night and morning, and keep the bowels open. 

The Celebrated " Ottar of Roses " may be made by steeping rosebuds 
or flowers in water and carefully skimming oti'the floating oil. Very valuable. 

A'ig'llt Sweats can be cured by eating a little dried beef before retiring 
at night. This simple remedy has cured very severe cases. 

To Keep Lice from Fowls make their nests of hog's hair. Who ever 
knew of porkers being troubled with these vermin ? 

Drniikard's Cure ! — A Sure Tempehance Pledge ! — Put two or three 
live snakes or eels in liquor and let them remain until dead. Strain the liquor 
and give it to the inebriate. He cannot drink it ; will turn from it in disgust. 

To prevent Iron or Steel from Rusting", warm it until you cannot beay 
your hand iipon it, then rub on clean white wax ; heat it thoroughly in by the 
lire, then rub it over with a piece of serge. 

To Prevent Cliapped Hands, wash them in boiled bran and water. 

To Cure Chapped Hands, wash them with sugar and water, or anoint 
theai with glycerine and wear kid gloves during the night. Keep them clean 
and perfectly dry after washing. 

Pain Killer. — Alcohol one pt.. Gum Ciuaiac. one-half oz.. Gam Myrrh one- 
fourth oz.. Spirits Camphor one-fourth oz., Cayenne one-fourth oz ; mix, and 
use the same as Peiry Davis' Pain Killer, or Magnetic Balm. 

Original Yeast. — Corn Meal five tablespoonsful, Flour two tablespoons- 
ful, Salt one-half teaspoonful, Soda one-half teaspoonf ul ; pour on boiling 
water and siir thoroughly to the consistency of i^aste, then place it away and 
it will rise in eighteen hours. Use in the same manner as other yeast. This 
quantity is suflicient for eighteen loaves of bread. 

Liver Elixir. — Take a beef's gall and let the contents gradually simmer 
over a gentle fire in an earthen vessel (a plate is best), carefully stirring it, 
until it is of the consistency and color of tar. Take a gentle cathartic ; then, 
after twenty-four hours have elapsed, commence taking the gall of the size of 
a pea, three times a day before meals. After three or four days, stop and take 
a gentle cathartic. In two days commence taking the gall again. Continue; in 
this manner until the patient is cured. Costs nothing, harmless, not unpleasant 
to the taste, and will cure the Liver Complaint in its worst form. 



\ r^% 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



014 184 244 4 



