V 



T. M. BIDDLE, 

DRUG' fa*! g 

iVo. 6 Keystone Block, 
.Fort Wayne, - Indiana. 

PURE CIDER VINEGAR. 

ROYAL EXTRACT FOR MINCE PIES. 



When this Extract is used, no spices or any other flavoring are to be used ; 
also good for fruit and spice cake, &c. Extracts of Vanilla, Rose and Lemon 
warranted absolutely pure, "Ground Spices" of all kinds, of the highest Stand 

ard of purity «~—*— *i-- ~ *- — J - : - *--* a; -- ^ ■■■'■ is used in cooking 

may be had c Q/^^^%-^'%>''»'' , «-'%''»-"»>''S>'%>< i «8><^<%>*»»«%><%>q l 

J LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. J 






f B ^W-'A 



t V 






| UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. J 

roiGiijiB i nu uunibouv 1/1 y uoocis, 

Fancy Goods, Notions & Millinery, 

The Finest Assortment of Dress Goods & Millinery in tie City, 

No. 5 and 7 Columbia Street, 
Port "CVayne, Ixxca.ia,ix«,, 



Don't Fail to Try the Following Valuable Rem- 
edies ! 

Cook's Marjoram Cream, 

The best remedy known for External Pains and Aches, Gather- 
ed Breasts, Sore Nipples, Childrens' Insect Bites, Frosted Feet, 
Sores, Swellings, Sprains, Chapped Flesh, Bunions, Neuralgia, 
Burns, Rheumatism. All persons suffering from any of the above 
named complaints arc advised to try this remedy, and our word 
for it, they will never regret it. Twenty-five Cents a Boitle. 

EBENEZER COOK, Wholesale Druggist. 

203 Greenwich Street, New York. 

Buy it, Try it» and t>e Free from Pain. 



COOK'S CUBE, 

The Great .A_nti-JE$iliovxs Physic and Health 
Restorative. 

Our advice to all suffering from Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Want of 
Appetite, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Heartburn, Dizziness, Fe- 
vers, "Disease of the Kidneys and Bladder," Chronic Rheumatism, 
Costiveness, Blotches or Pimples on the Skin, Paralysis, Chronic 
Diarrhea or Dysentery and Palpitation of the Heart, is to try 
" Cook's Cure," being sure that you will say as we say. I want 
no medicine but "Cook's Cure," "Cook's Cure" is my doctor.- 
When I feel sick I go to "Cook's Cure," and take of it until my 
feelings tell me I am well. There is no mistake about it. It is the 
best remedy known. Buy it, try it, and be healthy. 

For sale by all Druggists and dealers in Medicine. If your Drug- 
gist should not have it, he will get it for you without extra cost. 
Price One H>ollar per Bottle. 

All orders promptly attended to by 

EBENEZER COOK, Wholesale Druggist, 

. . 203 Greenwich Street, New York. 



The Housekeeper's Friend, 

The Great Croton Bug Clear Out. 

This Remedy is Sure Death to Bugs, Moths, Ants, Fleas, and 
all Insects. A single trial will satisfy you of its merits. Put up 
in tin cans, two sizes — 25 and 50 cents. 

Buy it, try it, and be Free from Bugs. 

EBENEZER COOK, Wholesale Druggist, 

No. 203 Greenwich Street, New York. 



FORT WAYNE 






This Institution, incorporated under the laws of Indiana, furnishes to its 
Pupils, upon reasonable terms SUPERIOR ADVANTAGES in every depart- 
ment of the study of Music. 

A. K. VIKGIL, Principal. C. F. W. MEYER, Secretary. 



BOARX> TRUSTEES. 



L M. Ninde, President, 
Judge R. S. Taylor, 
H. G. Olds, 



R. G. McNiece, Secretary, 
T. P. Anderson, 
E. P. Williams, 
O. J. Wilson. 



H^^Send for Catalogue. 



JAS. M, KANE& BRO., 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers'in 




No. 19 Calhoun Street, 

Have just received 50 more Cases of New and Elegant 

HOLIDAY GOODS, 

The Largest and Best Assorted Stock ever displayed in the West, direcl 
from Manufacturers and Importers, including all 

The Latest Novelties, 

in Knglish, French and German Goods. We would direct particular attention K> 
our Department of Toys. We have many New Novelties not to be 
found at any other house in the West. Call and 
see Styles and Prices. 

No. 19 Calhoun Street. 



nsro ExiFEK/ZDvnEisrT i 




AWARDED FIRST PREMIUM 

In 1872 Over all the Leading Wood Cook Stoves of the West. A Good Stove 

is necessary to Good Cooking, and there is no 

experiment in buying 

" THIIE FAVORITE." 

SOLD ONLY BY 

STOPHLET BROTHERS, 

No 14 West Columbia Street, 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 

We have Everything in the House and Kitchen Furnishing Line. 

M. E. WOODWARD, 



>frfe 



CLOTHIER AND GENERAL FURNISHER, 



ALL HIS FOE MEN EI SOYS' WEAR. 



No. 46 Calhoun Street, 



FORT WAYNE, IND. 



CARPETS, 



h ULi 




r 



V 



16 



Efil 4k MAlit 



i> 



Lace Curtains, Window Shades. 

Cornices, Fixtures, House Furnishing Goods, 

26 East Berry St., 



BllswwpUia Ailffw M Cf#® 



1 1 -A- JL- ) X JiLj S 7 



After selecting a Receipt do not fail 
to call upon 



H. B. Trentman & Bros., 



China, Glass & Queensware, 

( >ur stock is complete and fresh and cannot fail to meet your wants. 



29 Columbia Street. 



To Make Good Cake, 

OB ANY THING ELSE^ 

BUY YOUR MATERIAL 



— -OF- 



Anderson & Douglass, 

122 & 124 BROADWAY, 

Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Ill ©it? Bj© JH@mi©, 



Established in 1851. 

A. S. JERMAN, - - Proprietor, 

Prompt attention given to the Dyeing of all kinds of Silk and Woolen Goods, 
in any color,' and to Cleaning Shawls, Dresses, Parasols, Kid 
Gloves and Slippers. Pants, Vests and Coats Clean- 
ed and Pressed in the Best Manner. 

Grease and Stains Removed from Silks Without 

Injury. 

Goods Received by Express or Stage, Promptly 
Attended to and Returned, 

OFFICE : No. 59 W. Water St., 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 



"A Sure Cure for Dyspepsia." 

CONCENTRATED ESSENCE OF 

FOR DYSPEPSIA, (HOI. ERA MORBUS, FLATULENT COLIC, NAUSEA, 
ENFEEBLED STATE OF ALIMENTARY CANAL. 

All having used it pronounce it the best remedy known for its 
efficacy in relieving Internal Pain. 

PRiCE, 30 CENTS A BOTTLE- 

Buy It, Try It, and You Will Find Relief. 

EBENEZER COOK, Wholesale Druggist, 

No. 203 Greenwich Street, N. Y 



Uncle Sam's Cough Cure* 

T-wenty cents a, Bottle. 

Is a sure cure. Everybody praises it. It is the great Family 

Remedy for all Pulmonary Complaints. For Sale 

by all Druggists. 

BUY IT, USE IT, AND BE HEALTHY. 

It is not safe to neglect a cough, a cold, or a sore throat. A 
cough is a warning of nature that the pulmonary organism is out 
of order and the process of coughing a natural effort to expel mor- 
bid matter. At this season of the year no person should be with- 
out a supply of Uncle Sam's Cough Cure, as it quickly relieves 
the spasmodic irritation, promotes expectoration and clears the'air 
passages of all mucus. It is soothing and pleasant to take, and 
trom its great merit and prompt cure is commonly known as the 
Medical Wonder. It gives immediate relief to the youngest and 
oldest. Uncle Sam's Cough Cure costs only twenty cents a bot- 
tle, so that all can have a bottle handy, and it is a sure cure for 
coughs, colds, whooping cough, influenza, irritation or soreness of 
the throat, asthma and catarrh. It sooths the hacking cough in 
consumption, strengthens the voice, and immediately relieves 
hoarseness and tickling in the throat. All who have tried it are 
loud in its praises. 

EBENEZER COOK, Wholesale Druggist, 

No.' 203 Greenwich Street, N. Y 
WHOLESALE AGENT. 



MANUAL 



—OF- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPING. 



THE 






0USEH0LD1RREASUREI 






■ 

LADIES OF UNQUESTIONED ABILITY IN MINISTERING 

[E— 

" CREATFRE COMFORTS OF THE IN&'ER MAW." 






i> 



IOK PRINTING HOUSE, 52 CALHOl 
'873- 




Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1873, by 

LAURA A. KIMBALL, 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



INDEX. 





Page. 


Bread, ...... 


••• 5 


Graham Department, 


14 


Remarks on Fish, Meats and Vegetables, 


... 18 


Poultry and Game,.. 


l 9 


Vegetables, 


20 


Made Dishes, ...... 


22 


Soups, 


... 31 


Sauces for Meat or Fish, ...... 


35 


Vegetables, 


••• 37 


Pies, 


42 


Puddings, 


... 47 


Custards, Creams and Varieties, 


58 


Ice Cream, 


... 63 


Sweet Dishes, 


65 


Table of Weights and Measures, ... 


... 68 


Icing for Cake, 


69 


Cake, 


... 71 


Preserves and Jellies, 


9i 


Drinks, 


... 98 


Pickles,.... 


IOI 


Dishes for the Sick, 


... in 


A Few Common Remedies for Sickness, 


114 


A List of Plain Dinners and Breakfasts, 


... 116 


Sundries,... 


120 


Hints that have been given by Experienced Housekeepers,.. 


... 130 



PREFACE. 



The first edition of the Household Treasure was launched into 
being, with no expectation that another would be needed ; but it 
has met with such unexpected favor that the second is sent forth, 
with the hope that it will meet as favorable a reception as the first, 
and that they will indeed prove treasures in many households. It 
can hardly fail to be successful in meeting the wants of many, in 
that the information it contains is such as has been "weighed in the 
balance and (not) found wanting." It was specially requested, 
when the work was commenced, that it might be a book that would 
be of service to novices in the art of attending to the "creature 
comforts of the inner man.." and it has been the endeavor to make 
it such. In some instances, directions have been given so minutely 
that experienced housewives might say, "that is unnecessary. 
Every one knows that." But it is a lamentable fact, that many 
take upon themselves the care of a household, without any practical 
knowledge of the duties of the position. It is comely to look upon 
from the outside, but when once within the complicated machinery, 
the multiplicity of wheels to be set in motion, convinces one of 
the necessity of a knowledge of what to do and when to do it. 
This work does not pretend to be perfect in every part. Far from 
it. There will be, as in everything human, room for criticism. It 
is however, plain, practical and sensible, as far as it goes. Thanks 
are due to those who have so kindly and promptly responded to the 
request for information desired. Some things were sent with no 
name attached. So, although such may be found with no "vouch' 
for them, you may feel sure that they have all been tested. We 
think the inserted blank leaves will meet the approbation of friends, 
as new receipts are constantly being obtained, which it is desirable 
to have a place for. "A place for everything and everything in 
ace," should be the motto of every practical housewife. 

L. A. K. 



ijjipail- 



Bread should be mixed as soft as it can be handled. It will rise 
sooner and be lighter, more digestible, and keep fresh much longer. 
Let it rise in a moderately warm place and away from the cold. If 
it becomes sour, add a little soda or saleratus, dissolved in hot 
water, and work it in well. Is better if you can get along without 
it, however. Knead well and faithfully. Have a moderate oven with 
a steady fire. A tin box is best to keep it in. When it is taken out 
of the oven hot, do not set it flat on the table, as it acquires a bad 
taste from the wood if you do. Set it on the end till cool. If it 
has a thick, hard crust, first wrap it with a wet cloth and put a dry 
one over it, and let it sweat until it becomes soft. In summer, 
bread should be mixed with cold water; in damp weather, the 
water should be tepid, and in cold weather quite warm. If the 
yeast is new, a smaller quantity will make the bread rise. 

Directions for Mixing. 

The day previous to baking the bread, (in winter in the morning, 
summer at noon,) boil four potatoes soft, pour off the water, mash 
through a colander, add one pint of water, when lukewarm, add 
about one quart of flour and one pint of yeast. Beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in a warm sheltered place to rise. Beat down occa- 
sionally, say once in a half hour, especially at bed time. Early in 
the morning add one pint of water (summer cold, in winter luke- 
warm) and one quart of flour. Beat smooth and set to rise. When 
risen, take flour sufficient for four small loaves, work well, shoving 
in the thumb and pounding with the fist. Work for thirty minutes, 
then cover and set to rise. In about one and a half hours it will 
be ready to work again, which do quite lightly, and give about 
fifteen or twenty minutes more for rising. Make it into loaves and 
set it to rise until light. Small loaves will bake in about one-half 
of an hour. — [Mrs, Jesse L. Williams. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Potato Yeast that will Keep a Year. 

Nine pints of water, six good sized potatoes, one tea cup of 
white sugar, one of salt, one of hops, pressed down full, and one 
of flour ; peel the potatoes, tie the hops in a small bag, and with 
the cup of salt boil in the nine pints of water until the potatoes are 
cooked, then take them out and mash fine ; put the sugar and flour 
with them, then pour on the hop water, being 'careful to have the 
flour without lumps first ; then place the whole again over the fire 
and boil five or ten minutes, stirring all the while to prevent scorch- 
ing, as that would spoil it ; pour into a stone jar, and when blood 
warm add a pint of yeast. Keep warm until raised, then stir in a 
large spoonful of ground ginger, (this prevents mold ;) keep in a 
cool dry place. One teacupful is sufficient for three or four good 
sized loaves of bread. Always stir in the yeast thoroughly before 
taking out for use. Make your sponge for bread in the usual way, 
using a little potato in it, and be sure never to allow it to become 
chilled, as this yeast requires to be kept warm while raising. Always 
reserve a pint of the yeast to start with. — [Mrs. Charles D. Bond, 
Mrs. Stephen Bond. 

Potato Yeast- 

Boil potatoes soft, mash them, and add as much water as will 
make them of the consistency of common yeast. While the pota- 
toes are warm put in one-half teacup of molasses and two table- 
spoons of yeast. Let it stand near the fire till done fermenting? 
when it will be fit for use. 

Potato Yeast- 
Boil twelve large potatoes, which have been peeled, in one gallon 
of water, till soft, with one large handful of hops, one cup of sugar, 
and one of salt. When cool add one dried yeast cake or one cup 
of soft yeast. One cup of this will raise three loaves of bread. — 
[Mrs. O. B. Laurence. 

Hop Yeast- 
Boil a handful of hops in two quarts of water; strain and pour 
the liquor, hot, upon one-half teacup of wheat flour. When about 
lukewarm add a teacup of yeast. Let it ferment, when it can be 
bottled and ready for use. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Brown Bread. 

Three cups of corn meal, two of rye meal, one of molasses, little 
more than one-half teaspoon ml soda, and a little salt. Mix soft. 
Steam from two to three hours, then set in the oven to dry off. — 
[Mrs. Will Joslin. 

Brown Bread. 

Two and a half cups corn meal, two and a half of sweet milk, 
scalded and poured over the meal. Stir it. Two and a half cups 
of flour, Graham, if preferred, one and a half of sour milk, two- 
thirds of molasses, and one large teaspoonful of soda. Steam two 
hours and bake slowly one hour. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 

Brown Bread. 

One pint sifted Indian meal, one of either rye, Graham or fine 
flour, one pint of sour milk, one-half cup molasses, and one good 
teaspoonful of soda. Steam two and bake in a moderate oven one- 
half hour. — [Mrs. Nelly Matoon. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One quart of nice yel'ow corn meal, one of flour, either rye or 
fine, one cup Orleans molasses, one large teaspoonful soda, one 
quart of lukewarm water. Can be baked as soon as mixed, and 
does not hurt it to stand a little while. Bake from three to four 
hours in an earthen crock, with moderate heat. If not eaten when 
warm, is nicer steamed before placing upon the table. — [Mrs. B. H- 
Kimball. 

Breakfast Rolls Splendid 

Three pints of flour, one large tablespoonful of butter, rub well 
through one pint of milk, boiled ; let it cool , then mix with the 
flour one tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt, one teacup of bakers' 
yeast; beat well with a knife ; let it stand till morning; beat again 
with a knife ; flour the board, roll out and cut with a cutter ; fold 
over with a small piece of butter; let them rise and bake quick. — 
[Mrs. N. B. Young. 



Royal Baking Powder will give you entire satisfaction. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Parker House Rolls- 
Two quarts of flour, one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, two of sugar, one cup of yeast and a little salt. Put the flour 
into a large bowl and make a hole in the middle. Scald the milk ; 
put the butter into it, then add the other ingredients. When cool 
pour it into the hole in the flour. Let it stand without stirring 
for six or eight hours. Then knead and let it rise again ; then 
make the rolls and let them rise again. To make the rolls, cut out 
with a tumbler, butter the top and then turn it over and fold like an 
omelet. — [Mrs. John Hough, Miss Mary Hanks, Miss Emma Hardy. 

French Rolls- 
One quart of warm sweet milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
egg, take flour enough to make a thick sponge, and one-half tea cup 
of hop yeast. When light add flour enough to make a soft dough ; 
let it rise, then roll out and cut with a biscuit cutter, rise again, and 
just before putting them in the oven cut deeply across with a knife. 
Bake quickly. — [Mrs. John Cochrane. 

German Puffs- 
One pint of milk, one pound of flour, piece of butter the size of 
a walnut, four eggs and a little salt. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks till thick, warm the milk, and add the butter ; when cool stir 
in the yolks, put in the flour by degrees, whisk the whites and stir 
in lightly. Bake one half an hour in buttered cups. To be eaten 
with cream and sugar or a very rich sauce. — [Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

Banns, 

Two cups of milk, one half of sugar, one half of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Let it rise over night, then add one 
half cup of sugar, one half of butter, one half teaspoonful of soda, 
essence of lemon, and currants, if wished. Make thin as possible 
and handle. Roll out about an inch thick ; cut in cakes ; then rise 
again before baking. If, when you cut and put them into the pan 
you rub the sides with melted butter, they will bake apart nicely. 
Wash the top with the white of an egg and sugar. — [Mrs. Etta 
Joslyn, "Mignon." 

Your Biscuit are delicious when made with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Kentucky Biscuit (Very Nice-) 
Three desertspoonfuls of lard or butter, one of salt, one pint of 
water, and four and a half pints of flour. Pound for one hour, till 
they become very light. Cut about one inch thick. Bake in an 
oven as hot as for bread from twenty to twenty-five minutes. — [Mrs. 
Sol. D. Bash. 

"Whortleberry Bread. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one-half 
cup of sugar, three-quarters quart of berries, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in milk, (if water put a little butter in,) and flour 
enough to make as stiff as cream tartar biscuits. — [Miss Sadie 
Kimball. 

Charlotte's Rusks- 
One pint of milk, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of 
shortening, a little salt, and one cup of home made yeast, (not 
quite so much of brewer's.) Make up at night, stiff as bread. In 
the morning make out in small biscuit. Let it rise and bake. 
Frost if you like.— [Mrs. I. G. Kimball. 

Drop Cakes. 

One pint of flour, one of milk, and three eggs, well beaten 

together. Bake in cups or "roll pans" one half hour or longer. — 

[Sadie K . 

Gems. 

One pint sweet milk, one egg, well beaten, and a little sal t. Mix 

them as fritters. Bake quick in small moulds. Serve hot, rolled 

in napkins. — [Mrs. N. B. Young, Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Genu. 

One pint of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, 
and one tablespoonful of part butter and lard ; mix soft, with milk 
or water. Have the "gem pans" hot, greased well, and bake im- 
mediately in a hot oven. — [Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

Corn Gems- 
One pint each of corn meal and water, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder and a little salt. — [Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

The Best Puddings can only be made with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Muffins 

One quart milk, two eggs, and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Make stiff and put in a spoonful of good yeast. Mix at night ; 
bake in the morning. — [Mrs. Laura Hyde, Miss Laura K . 

Muffins Mixed with Water 

Two eggs, four tablespoon fuls of sugar, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, three teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking 
Powder, one quart of flour, and water enough to make as stiff as 
sponge cake. Bake in gem pans, heated and greased well, or muffin 
rings. — [Miss Mollie Kimball. 

'Waffles- 
One quart of sour cream, four eggs, one half teaspoon ful of soda 
and flour enough to be as thick as batter cakes. Sour milk can be 
used if cream is scarce by putting in a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. — [Mrs. G. C.'Hewes. 

Waffles, 

One quart of milk, one of flour, four eggs beaten separately, 
three tablespoon fuls of butter and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. — [Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

Waffles 

One quart sour milk, four eggs, butter the size of an egg, a level 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and butter together; then add mdk and salt ; then flour sufficient 
for a stiff batter; dissolve the soda in a little water and add ; stir 
in gently the well beaten whites ; pour in the hot side of the iron 
and turn on to the other side. — [Mrs. Jesse L. Williams. 

Pop Overs- 
Two cups of milk, two of flour, four eggs and a small piece of 
butter. Make the consistency of griddle cakes. Bake in a quick 
oven, twenty minutes, in cups or gem pans previously heated. — 
[Mrs. Henry Little. 

Soda Biscuit. 
One pint sweet milk, one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one of soda, salt and a little shortening. 



Buckwheat Cakes made in 5 minutes ivith Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Breakfast Cakes 

Two cups ot flour, one of corn meal, two ot sweet milk, one half 
of sugar, two eggs, well beaten, and two teospoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in muffin rings or gem pans ; a large tablespoonkq 
in each apartment. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Breakfast Johnny Cak' . 

Mix over night, eight tablespoon fuls of fine yellow Indian meal 
with two of wheat flour, one of corn starch, a teaspoonful ot' salt, 
and water enough to wet thoroughly, (milk if you have it). In the 
morning add one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, and one of melted butter. Beat well and bake immedi- 
ately in a hot oven. — [Laura K , 

Johnny Cake- 
One cup of flour, two and a half of corn meal, one of mo' 
one ot sweet milk, two teaspoonrals/)f baking powder dissolved in 
the milk, and a little salt. Bake one hour in a sponge cake pan. — 
[Miss Lizzie Walters. 

Johnny Cake. 

Four eggs, two teacups butter milk, two of sweet milk, one of 
sour cream, two teaspoonfuls ot soda, and if the butter milk is verv 
sour, a little more; one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, one large cup ot flour, and the rest meal. Stir not verv 
thick. Bake three-quarters ot an hour. — [Sadie R. 

Steamed Johnny Cake- 
Two eggs, three-quarter cup of mo! isses, : pint ot sour milk, 
one teaspoonful ot' soda, and corn meal enough for a stiff batter. 
Steam one and a half hours — [Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

St Charles Corn Bread. 

One pint of corn meal, one of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, lard size of an egg. two eggs, two tablespoon fuls of molas 
and a little salt.— [Mrs. Jesse L. Williai 

T/u- Best Apple Dumplings art maJt with Royal Bcikir:^ } 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Strawberry Short Cake- 
Mix three large teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder among 
three pints of flour, add one half teacup of butter, a little salt, 
and one pint of milk. Mix thoroughly and quickly ; roll one inch 
in thickness, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Then take 
a quart or more of strawberries, and sweeten to taste. When the 
short cake is done divide it into three layers, butter them and 
spread the berries between. Eat while warm. — [Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball. 

Old Fashioned Short Cake 

One quart of butter milk, large tablespoonful of melted lard, 
a little salt, and flour enough to roll out about one half an inch 
thick, cut into diamonds and bake quickly. — [Mrs. S. B. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Flour Griddle Cakes- 
One pint of sour milk or butter milk ; a cup of shortening, a 
little salt, two eggs, a heaping teaspoonful of soda, and flour 
enough to make a soft batter. If mixed at night, and soda added 
in the morning, are much nicer. Can be cooked, however as soon 
as made. — [Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes- 
One pint sour milk or butter milk ; two eggs, heaping tea- 
spoonful of soda, using one-third flour, two-thirds corn meal — 
enough to make a stiff batter. Mix at night and add the soda in 
the morning. — [Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes- 
Grate twelve ears of green corn, add two tea cups of sour milk, 
a teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, two eggs, and flour enough for a 
batter.— [Mrs. S. B. 



Eggs are saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 3 

Rice Cakes. 

Mix one pint of rice boiled soft, with a pint of milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, three eggs beaten to a froth, and stir in rice or 
wheat flour till of the right consistency to fry. If preferred, add 
two more eggs and more flour, and bake into cakes. — [Mrs. Cynthia 
Hill. 

Bread Cakes- 

Soak some stale bread in milk, strain through a colander very 
fine, beat in the yolks of four eggs and a little flour — just enough 
to make a thin batter — add a teaspoonful of saleratus, and put in 
the whites, beaten stiff, just before you are ready to fry them. Have 
the griddle hot. — [Mignon, 

Slapjacks- 

Take a pint of milk and beat into it three eggs, and enough flour 
to make a thin batter; add a little salt and a teaspoonful of 
melted butter. Bake in large round cakes on a griddle. Spread 
with butter and sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg as soon as taken off 
Pile one upon another. When you have enough to place upon the 
table cut in quarters down through. — [Mignon. 

Buckwheats. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, four tablespoon fuls of yeast, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one handful of Indian meal, two tablespoon fuls 
of molasses, (not syrup,) and warm water enough to make a thin 
batter. Beat well and set to rise in a warm place. If in the morn- 
ing the batter is sour, put in a little soda dissolved in hot water. 
Leave about a cup full every morning for a sponge for next time. — 
[Mignon. 

Quick Buckwheats- 

To one pint of buckwheat flour, while dry, add three teaspoon- 
fuls Royal Baking Powder, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful 
molasses. When ready to bake, add cold water or sweet milk 
enough to form a batter, and bake immediately on a hot griddle. — 
[Mrs. Hoagland. 

Milk is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



14 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Green Peas Fritters. 

Cook a pint or three cups more peas than you need for dinner, 
mash while hot, season with pepper, salt and butter. In the morn- 
ing add two beaten eggs, a cupful of milk, one-fourth teaspoon ful 
soda, one - half teaspoonful cream tartar, one half cup of flour. Stir 
the mashed peas into this mixture thoroughly, and cook as griddle 
cakes. — [Mrs. S. B. 

Egg Plant Fritters- 
Take one egg plant and slice it ; boil until quite soft, make a bat- 
ter with one egg and one half cup of milk, mixing the egg plant 
with it. Fry in a little lard. — [Mrs. N. A. Hyde. 



GRAHAM DEPARTMENT. 



These recipes are not all ''hygienic," but sufficiently so to stand 
in a corner by themselves. 

Graham Bread- 
Take two quarts of Graham flour, sift thoroughly, then scrape off 
the top where there is the most bran, put the bran in a basin and 
scald it ; after mixing thoroughly add cold water enough to make 
it lukewarm, then add flour enough to make a stiff batter, then add 
your yeast — one half teacup dried yeast soaked in lukewarm water 
or one quart of sponge from v/hite bread. Set this in a warm place 
and let it rise well, then add one cup of sugar, small handful of salt 
and flour enough to make stiff, but not hard ; cover it up and set 
it to rise again ; when light, have your pans well buttered (quart 
pans are the best) mould your bread with as little flour as possible 
and place in the pans ; let the loaves rise ten minutes, then bake an 
hour and a half with a slow fire. — Mrs. Kittie Kimball. 

Shortening is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 5 

Graham Bread- 
Three pints of warm water, one teacup of sugar, two spoonfuls of 
good moist yeast, or the same proportion of dry; thicken with 
Graham flour, no salt, and pour into a well-buttered dripping pan ; 
allow it time to get well risen and bake in a moderate oven. — [Mrs. 
Ninde, Mrs. M. Taylor. 

Brown Bread. 

Two full quarts of Graham flour, two small tablespoonfuls salt, 
two thirds teacup molasses, a teacup brewer's yeast — if home-made, 
a little more — one teaspoonful soda. Mix with warm water to a 
thick batter, let it stand to rise, and bake an hour in a moderate 
oven. — [Mrs. Henry Little, Miss Amelia Nieble. 

Graham Biscuit- 
One teacup brewer's yeast — if home-made, one cup — one pint 
lukewarm water, about one and a half pints fine wheat flour made 
into a batter. Set in a warm place to rise and when light add one 
half teacup sugar, four tablespoonfuls of butter, a little salt, and 
thicken with unsifted Graham flour, not quite a pint. Knead the 
soft sponge in the same, adding just enough Graham flour to make 
it manageable, about one and one fourth pints in all ; set away to 
rise. When light, knead down and let it rise again, then mould 
into biscuit a id when quite light bake in a quick oven. — [Laura K. 

Graham Biscuit- 

Pour warm water on Graham flour until all the flour is wet ; have 
it about as stiff as can be stirred with an iron spoon, place the 
dough with plenty of flour on your moulding board, knead two or 
three minutes, roll one half an inch thick, cut in small cakes or 
rolls and bake in a hot oven 45 minutes. 

Make Graham Mush as for table, let it cool, mix with Graham 
flour sufficient to roll well, knead two minutes, roll three fourths of 
an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, bake forty minutes. — [Mrs. 
Ninde, Mrs. Margaret Taylor. 

Water answers as well as milk if Royal Baking Powder is used. 



1 6 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Graham Drop Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, piece of 
butter size of an egg, sweet milk sufficient to make a batter stiff 
enough to drop by the spoonful on greased biscuit pans. Sour milk 
can be used omitting baking powder and using one teaspoonful of 
soda.— [Mrs. Will S . 

One quart of Graham flour, three eggs, pinch of salt, one tea 
spoonful of baking powde r , one pint milk; bake in heated buttered 
gem pans in a hot oven. — [Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

Graham Rusks- 
Break dry bread — Graham is best — in small pieces, brown it in 
the oven, then grind in either a coffee or rusk mill, and put upon 
the table dry, to be eaten with milk and sugar, or milk alone. Is a 
verv nice dish, particularly in summer, or for children who are in- 
clined to summer difficulties of the stomach and bowels. [Mrs. 

Ninde. 

Graham Pie Crust. 

Sift a teaspoonful of baking powder with a pint of Graham flour, 
and make a soft dough by stirring in sweet cream. Roll out, with- 
out kneading, and you will have a tender and healthful pie-crust. — 
Can use cream a little sour. Will not be noticed when baked. — 
[Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Gems- 
Gem pans should be well heated and greased before putting th e 
mixture in, and then baked in a hot oven. 

One pint of Graham flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, a lit- 
tle salt, one teaspoonful white sugar; stir up with milk or water a 
little stiffer than griddle cakes. — [Mrs. Mattie Little. 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful 
molasses, a pinch of salt, brown flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
— [Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

Make a thick batter with cold water or sweet milk and Graham 
flour, no salt, and bake in gem pans in a hot oven. Will be very 
light and delicious. — [Mrs. Ninde, Mrs. M. Taylor. 

You cannot have the best cake without Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 7 

Gems with one Egg- 
One pint of milk, one egg, little salt, Graham flour enough for a 
stiff batter. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Graham Cookies- 
Piece of butter the size of an egg, one coffeecup of sugar, one 
half teaspoonful saleratus, one half cup water, Graham flour enough 
to roll out, not stiff, but as soft as possible. Bake quickly ; keep in 
a dry place. They resemble pop corn candy. — [Miss Mary S . 

Molasses Drop Cakes- 
One cup sweet cream, one of milk, one of molasses, two eggs 
well beaten and Graham flour enough to make a rather thin batter. 
Can put a teaspoonful of baking powder in the flour. Ginger is 
not strictly hygienic, but you can add a little if you choose. Bake 
in a quick oven. — [Lilly S. 

Graham Cake- 
One and one half cups of sugar, one half of butter, three eggs 
well beaten, one teaspconful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in one cup of milk, about two and one half cups of 
Graham flour. It must not be stiff; flavor to taste. Is nice with 
currants ; also makes nice jelly or cream cake baked thin. — [Miss 
Sadie Kimball. 

Cream Cake- 
One pint of sweet cream, one cup white sugar, one of raisins or 
currants, one egg, and Graham flour enough to make a rather thin 
batter; sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in the flour. — [Mrs. 
Will Stockbridge. 



Graham Gems are better if a little Royal Baking Powder is used. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



REMARKS. 

ON MEATS, FISH AND VEGETABLES. 



MEATS. 



All meats, poultry and fish should be boiled slowly; to boil them 
fast hardens the outside before the inside is warm, and discolors the 
meat. When you boil mutton or beef, dredge them well with flour 
before you put them inco the kettle of cold water. Keep it covered 
and take off the scum. Mutton and beef do not require so much 
boiling, but pork, veal or lamb are not wholesome if they are not 
boiled enough. When you roast any kind of meat, put a little salt 
and water in your dripping pan ; baste your meat with it ; let it 
dry. Then dredge it well with flour and baste it with butter. It 
makes the meal a better color. Corned beef should be put into 
boiling water. 

Roast Beef- 

The sirloin is considered the best ; prepare it for the oven by 
dredging over the top with pepper and salt, placing a little water in 
the pan with which baste the meat once in a while. From fifteen 
to twenty minutes to the pound is the rule for roasting. 

Boiled Beef. 

The round is the best ; put it in the pot with water enough to 
cover it. Let it boil slowly at first, that it may be tender, taking 
off the scum as it rises ; should boil from two to three hours, ac- 
cording to the size. 

7*eef Steak 

The inside of the sirloin is the best ; cut about three fourths of 
an inch thick. 



You will not do without Royal Baking Powder if you try it once. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 9 

Roast Pork. 

Cut the skin of a leg of pork in squares, make a dressing of 
bread crumbs, sage, pepper and salt, moistened with the yolk of an 
egg ; put under the skin of the knuckle and sprinkle a little fine 
sage into the rind when it is cut ; sprinkle with flour, pepper and 
salt. A good sized leg will require about three hours roasting. 
Shoulder, loin and spare ribs roasted in the same way. 

Pork Steaks- 
Cut from the neck or loin ; broil over a clear fire, turning often; 
season while broiling. The loin, haunch and saddle of mutton 
and lamb are roasted the same as beef. In roasting meat, time, 
good steady fire, and care are the necessary requisites. 

Boiling Meat- 
Allow one quarter of an hour for every pound, skim well, for if 
you do not it boils down and makes the meat black. Fresh meat 
should be put in when the water boils, except when you are making 
soup ; and salt meat, when the water is cold. In boiling eggs let 
the water boil before they are put in. In three minutes an egg will 
boil soft, in four the white is cooked, and in ten the egg is hard 
enough to use for salad. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



Turkey. 



A good sized turkey should be roasted two and a half or three 
hours, very slowly at first ; make a dressing of pounded crackers or 
stale bread crumbs, little butter, sage or summer savory as wished, 
and an egg, mixed thoroughly together and fill the ' ; vacuum." 

Ducks and Geese. 

Roasted like turkey adding onion in dressing if wished. For 
wild ducks, pigeons and other wild fowl; use only pepper and salt 
for seasoning. 

You will not do without Royal Baking Powder if you try it once. 



20 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Chickens- 
Roasted like tnrkey; do not require so much time, from one 
hour to an hour and a half is long enough. Pigeons the same, 
will cook in about half an hour. 



FISH. 



Fish are good and fresh if the gills are red, the eyes full and the 
body of the fish firm and stiff. When boiled it should be done 
over a slow fire and skimmed frequently. Season the water with 
salt, having enough to cover the fish. If baked, which is best, 
score the back, sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt. Stuff with 
dressing as for meat or fouls if wished. Put little water in the pan 
in which it is baked, with a little butter, with which baste. 



VEGETABLES. 



Always let the water boil before putting them in, and continue 
to boil until done. Soft water is best; if hard is used put a little 
soda in and they will cook sooner and preserve their color better. 

Turnips 

Should be scraped before boiling, boil from forty minutes to one 
hour. If mashed, press the water out first. 

Beets 
Should never be cut or scraped. Boil from one to two hours ; 
when done put them, one at a time, into a pan of cold water and 
slip the skins off. 

Royal Baking Powder is better than Cream Tartar and Soda. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Carrots 

Can be cut if too large ; boil from thirty minutes to an hour and a 
half. 

Parsneps 

From twenty to thirty minutes. 

Onions 

Are best boiled in two or three waters, adding milk the last time ; 
oil fr o m twenty to thirty minutes. 

String Beans 

Should be boiled from one hour to an hour and a half. 

Shelled Beans 
Require from half an hour to an hour. 

Green Corn 
From twenty to thirty minutes. 

Green Peas 

Should be boiled alone in as little water as possible ; boil twenty 
minutes. 

Asparagus 

Same as peas ; serve on toast with cream gravy. 

'Winter Squash- 
Cut in pieces and boil from twenty to forty minutes in a small 
quantity of water ■ when done, press the water out, mash, smooth 
and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Summer Squash 

Should be boiled whole and need not be pared. If large take out 
the seeds after it is done. 

Cabbag e and Dandelions 

Should be boiled from half an hour to one hour in plenty of water; 
if the cabbage is large, one and one half hours. If salt is used in 
greens or cabbage put in while they are boiling. 

Beet Tops and Spinach 

Need about twenty minutes in a small quantity of water. 



Instead of Crea?n Tartar and Soda use Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Old Potatoes 

Are better to have the skins cut off the seed end, and better still 
to be pared and put into cold water two or three hours before boil- 
ing ; then put them in fresh water ; when done pour off the water, 
put the kettle on the top of the stove uncovered until the potatoes 
are dry ; are healthiest baked. 



MADE DISHES. 



Baked Chicken Pie- 
Line a buttered dish with rich, light crust, cut up a good sized 
chicken, parboil a short time, the length depending upon the age 
of the fowl ; place in the bottom of the dish a layer of chicken, 
then a layer of sliced potatoes, which have first been parboiled, 
before slicing, season with pepper and salt and bits of butter, then 
chicken, and so on until the chicken is used up, fill up with the 
water in which the chicken was boiled, sprinkle a little flour on 
the top, cover with a rich crust rolled quite thick and slit in the 
middle. Salt pork can be used instead of butter if wished. Veal, 
beefsteak, lamb, etc, can be substituted in place of chicken. Have 
no crust on the bottom of the dish. — [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Codfish Toast. 

Freshen nicely picked codfish by laying it in water over night. 
In the morning add sweet cream or milk and butter, one egg, heat 
it and pour on nicely toasted bread. 

Breakfast Dish. 

Take pieces of cold meat, chop fine, season with butter, pepper 
and salt, with enongh water for plenty of gravy, toast pieces of 
bread and put alternate layers meat and the bread, finishing with 
the chopped meat, pour water over to make a gravy. — [Mrs. J. 
Gilbert. 

No low priced baking powder is as good as the Royal. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 23 



Dish for Breakfast- 
Take the number of eggs wished, season, pass through a sieve, 
and a little milk, put in a stew pan and set over a slow fire till the 
eggs thicken a little, remove it from the fire, add a small piece of 
butter, and when melted add finely minced fowl, meat, fish, aspara- 
gus, peas or cauliflower, as desired, the latter stirred in until warmed 
through, but not suffered to boil. 

Chicken Pate- 
Boil two chickens till tender, take out all the bones and chop the 
meat fine, season to the taste with salt, pepper and butter, pour in 
enough of the liquid they were boiled in to make it moist, put into 
whatever mould you wish, and when cold cut into slices. It is ex- 
cellent. 

Boiled Fowl -with Oysters. 
Take a young chicken, fill the inside with oysters, boil it for 
one hour and a half, make a gravy of the water it is boiled in. 
The chicken will be very white and tender and of exceedingly fine 
flavor. 

Tongue Toast- 

Chop a cold boiled tongue fine, mix with cream or milk with a 
little butter, the beaten yolk of an egg and give it a simmer over 
the fire, butter some nicely toasted slices of bread, cover each slice 
with the tongue mixture, spread on hot and send to the tab e cov- 
ered For tongue, ham can be substituted. 

Delicious Toasted Cheese- 

Cut two ounces of cheese into thin slices, put it into a sauce pan, 
set it on the fire and add one half cup fresh milk, simmer until the 
cheese is quite dissolved, then take it from the fire and pour it into 
a shallow dish ; when cooled a little add the yolk of one egg, well 
beaten, then place it in the oven and brown nic ly. 

Omelet of Asparagus - 

Take six eggs and beat them up with cream or milk. Boil some 
asparagus, when it is boiled cut in small pieces and mix with the 
eggs, adding pepper and salt, cook until it thickens a little ; serve 
on buttered toast. 

Royal Baking Powder makes the flour more nutritious. 



24 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Breakfast Dish- 
Slice a few cold biscuits or some dry light bread, fry them 
slightly in a little butter or nice gravy, beat three or four eggs with 
half cup of sweet milk and a pinch of salt ; when the bread is hot 
pour the eggs over it and cover for a few minutes, stir lightly so 
that the eggs will cook. This is a nice dish, besides using up th e 
dry bread. 

Oyster loaves. 
Take small French rolls, make a round hole in the top and scrape 
out the crumbs, then put your oysters into a pan with their liquor 
and the crumbs that come out of the rolls, add a good lump of but- 
ter and stew them together five or six minutes, then put in aspoon- 
ful good cream or milk or butter, fill your rolls with the oysters, 
lay the piece of crust carefully on again and set the loaves in the 
oven to warm. 

Omelet- 
Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half teacup of 
milk, one tablespoon of flour, half of butter ; pepper, salt, to 
the taste ; stir the flour into half of the milk and melt the butter 
in the other; put the whites in last; bake in jelly-cake pans ; 
serve hot. — [Laura Kimball. 

A Nice 'Way to Fix Ham- 
After it is boiled take off the skin and rub it all over with an 
egg, then strew bread crumbs over it, baste with butter and set it in 
the oven until it is baked a light brown. 
Fried Oysters 
To half can oysters, add whites of two eggs and two tablespoons 
of cream tartar beaten well together. Dry the oysters on a cloth 
and dip into pounded crackers sifted, or bread crumbs seasoned ; 
dip an oyster in the egg and then lay both sides in the crumbs ; 
fry in butter and lard mixed. — [Mrs. Rev. Henry Little. 
Fried Oysters- 
Pound crackers very fine, have the skillet hot, roll the oysters in 
crackers, fry in butter, season and serve hot. — [Mrs. Frank Chap- 
man. 

Royal Baking Powder makes Biscuit more easily digested. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



25 



Corn Oysters. 

One pint of grated corn, one cup of flour, one desertspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, one egg; mix the ingredients to- 
gether, and fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. Nuttman. 

Beef Omelet- 
Four pounds of round of beef, free of fat, chopped very fine, 

four crackers rolled fine, four eggs, two tablespoons of milk, salt, 
pepper and little butter, mix and roll in a loaf, put in a baking 
dish, placing bits of butter on the top, and strew with cracker 
crumbs, bake, and when cold slice. — [Miss Hattie Woodward. 

Corn Oysters- 
One dozen ears of corn, cut the kernels through the middle, and 
scrape from the cob, half cup of milk, one egg, half cup flour > 
tablespoon of butter, mix well together, season with salt and pep- 
per, make into cakes, fry in hot lard. — [Mrs. Nellie Griggs. 

Corn Oysters- 
Half dozen ears of boiled corn, three eggs, one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of flour, beat the yolks smooth, grate the corn and 
season well, then mix with the yoMcs and add the flour, whisk the 
whites to a stiff froth and stir in the mixture, then fry like oysters, 
in butter. — [Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

Chowder- 
A few slices of salt pork in the bottom of the kettle, then a layer 
of fresh fish, and over it a layer of split crackers, then raw potatoes 
sliced thin with salt and pepper, then more pork, fish, crackers, 
to the quantity desired ; over it pour milk and water and two 
tablespoons of flour mixed in smoothly until there is enough to 
cover the contents of the pot ; cover down tight and cook slowly 
one or two hours. — [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Codfish Balls- 
Pick up the fish and soak over night, add as much again hot 
boiled potatoes as you have fish, mix together until fine, beat two 
or three eggs and put in a lump of butter the size of an egg, pep- 
per and salt / rub the hands in flour and roll the mixture in balls 
and fry in ho: lard. — [Miss Hattie Woodward. 
Fried"Boiled Eggs- 
Slice up hard boiled eggs, dip in raw eggs and bread crumbs an<j 
fry in butter, serve hot. 



Dyspeptics can eat Royal Baking Powder biscuits, while hot. 



2 6 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Our Fish Cake- 
Take fish either fresh or that has been cooked, pick it in pieces, 
let it stew with some butter, covering it over until done, soak some 
stale bread (baker's) in milk, beat up the fish and that together in 
a mortar with three eggs, season with pepper and salt, mix all well 
together, bake in small cups, first buttered, and turn out ; serve 
with or without sauce. 

Omelet- 
Beat six eggs very light, the whites to a stiff froth that will stand 
alone, and the yolks to a smooth thick batter, add to the yolks a 
small cup of sweet milk, pepper and salt, lastly stir in the whites 
lightly; have ready in a hot frying pan a good lump of butter, 
when it hisses stir in the mixture gently and set over a clear fire ; 
it should cook ten minutes at most , do not stir but contrive as the 
eggs "set" to slip a broad bladed knife under the omelet to guard 
against burning at the bottom ; if your oven is hot you may put 
the omelet in it as soon as the middle of the omelet is "set ;" when 
done lay a hot dish bottom upwards on the top of the pan and dex- 
terously upset the latter and bring the browned side of the omelet 
uppermost. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Scrambled Codfish- 
Pick codfish in pieces and soak over night ; in the morning add 
one cup of sweet milk, when hot, not boiling, add six eggs well 
beaten and stirred briskly, be careful not to boil it, season with 
butter and pepper. — [Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Half pint of sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, flour to make a 
batter, little salt and soda, put in the oysters and fry in hot butter 
and lard mixed. — [Mrs. Mills. 

A Nice 'Way to Cook Chicken. 

Cut it up, put in a pan and cover with water, stew until done 
then set in the oven to brown. Pour over it a thickening made of 
cream, or milk, and flour, butter, pepper and salt. — [Mrs. E. M. 
Kimball. 

Royal is the only sure Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



27 



Veal Loaf- 
Three pounds uncooked veal, quarter of a pound of salt pork, 
less will answer if butter is used, chop fine, mix with three eggs, 
three Boston crackers pounded, one and a half teaspoons of salt 
two of pepper, one grated lemon, half tea-cup catsup, press hard 
into a pudding dish and bake two hours, slice thin and eat cold. — 
[Mrs. Rev. Henry Little. 

Scolloped Oysters- 
Ill the bottom of a buttered pudding dish put a layer of rolled 
crackers, moistened with some of the oyster liquor and milk, 
slightly warmed, next a layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and putting a little butter on them, have another layer of 
moistened crumbs and so on till the dish is full, let the top layer 
be of crumbs thicker than the rest, and beat an egg in the milk 
you moisten it with, stick bits of butter thickly over it and cover 
the dish and bake half an hour, removing the cover at the last, and 
browning the top. — [Mrs. Addie Howard. 

Chicken Corn Pie- 
Cut up two chickens and stew them till done in a good rich 
gravy, have ready two dozen ears of corn, take a sharp knife, cut 
off closely scraping the cob, then take a baking pan, place a layer 
of corn on the bottom of the pan or dish, then a layer of the 
chicken and so on until you get all the chicken in, then cover with 
the corn, pour in all the gravy, put a small lump of butter in the 
top and let it bake in a moderate oven about fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, if the corn is young and tender, if not, a little longer, cover 
it over until just before you wish to take it up, when, remove the 
cover and brown it, have a good deal of gravy or it will cook to 
dry. 

Veal Omelet- 
Three pounds of raw veal chopped fine, three eggs, four small 
crackers pounded, two tablespoons of milk or cream, one heaping 
tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon of pepper, mix all together and 
form in the shape of a loaf, bake two hours and baste with butter 
and water. — [Mrs. Mattie Little. 



Elegant pot pies are only made with Royal Baking Powder. 



2 8 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Baked Eggs- 
Break eggs into a buttered dish, far enough apart for the yolks 
not to touch each other, sprinkle wich salt and pepper, putting a 
little butter upon each, if wished ; bake until the whites "set;" 
serve hot on toast. 

Egg Gems- 
Mix together chopped meat and bread crumbs with pepper and 
salt and batter, and a little milk, fill some buttered gem pans with 
the mixture, then break an egg carefully upon the top of each, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, sprinkle some very fine cracker crumbs 
on the top, bake for eight minutes; eat hot. 
Meat Croquets- 
Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of ham, fat 
and lean, chop them together fine, add half as much stale bread 
grated, salt, pepper, one teaspoon of made mustard, one tablespoon 
of catsup and a lump of butter; knead all together like sausage 
meat, make into cakes, dip them in the yolk of an egg, beaten, 
then in grated bread, and fry a light brown. — [Mrs- Jesse Williams. 

Turkey Scollop- 

Cut the meat from what is left from a cold, boiled or roasted 
turkey, take out the gristle and chop very fine, put in the bottom 
of a buttered pudding dish a layer of crackers or bread crumbs 
moisten slightly with milk, then put a layer of the minced turkey 
with bits of stuffing, pepper, salt and small pieces of butter, another 
layer of crackers wet with milk, and so on till the dish is nearly full 
of the alternate layers; before putting on the last layer pour in the 
gravy left from the turkey; should there not be enough dilute it 
with hot water, adding Worcestershire sauce, catsup and butter; 
have ready a crust of cracker crumbs, soaked in warm milk seasoned 
with salt and beaten up light with two eggs, it should be just thick 
enough to spread smoothly over the scallop ; put bits of butter 
plentifully over it and bake, covering with a deep dish to keep the 
steam in ; remove the cover a few minutes before serving ; a large 
pudding dish full will be cooked in three quarters of an hour. — 
[Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Cold Royal Baking Powder Biscuits are splendid. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 29 

, . . 

Codfish and Potatoes* 

Eight or nine hours before you wish to use, soak salted confish, 
as much as you choose, then pick it in pieces and scald in a pan ; 
don't let it boil, but get as hot as it can, put it then in sweet milk, 
if there's nothing to hinder, with butter and pepper and boil till 
tender, then b^at up an egg, stir quickly into it, but don't let it 
boil, if you do you will rue it ; as much again potatoes, washed 
finely and smooth, mixed with it, and toothsome and good it will 
prove; pour over the whole some goodly egg sauce, and you will 
find you could taste of many things worse. — [Laura Kimball. 

Yankee Pork and Beans- 

Put the quantity of beans wished on the stove in a kettle of cold 
water, change the water two or three times for fresh while boiling ; 
boil until the skins will crack open when blown upon, put a little 
soda in the last water, when parboiled enough take an earthen 
crock, into which put the beans, place a piece of salt pork (fresh 
can be used if you have no salt), which has been scored across the 
top, in the center, pressing it down into the beans ; allow about a 
pound to a quart of the dried beans, put in a tableapoonful of mo- 
lasses ; if fresh pork is used, salt enough to season; fill up with 
water and set in the oven; bake from five to six hours steadily, 
keeping the beans covered with water all the time. — [Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball. 

Oyster Pie. 

Make a rich crust, roll out twice as thick as for fruit pie for the 
top crust, the ordinary thickness for the lower ; line a pudding dish 
with it and fill with crusts of dry bread or light crackers. Butter 
the edges of the dish.- that you may lift the upper crust without 
breaking ; cover the mock pie with the thick crust ornamented 
heavily at the edges, that it lie down better and bake; cook the oys- 
ters as for a stew, only breaking into them, at the last, two eggs and 
thickening with a spoonful of fine cracker crumbs or rice flour ; 
they should cook but five minutes, or just warmed through and time 
them, so that the crust will be baked just in season to receive them, 
lift the top crust, pour on the smoking hot oysters, seasoned with 
butter, pepper and salt, and send to the table hot. — [Mignon. 

Royal Baking Powder is perfectly pure and wholesome. 



3<3 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Fried Oysters. 

Beat up two or three eggs in a cup and rasp bread crumbs on a 

plate with sweet herbs powdered, and lemon peel ; dry the oysters 
as much as possible, dip them in the egg and cover them with the 
crumbs; fry in plenty of butter. — [Miss E. Ray. 
A la mode Beef- 
Take a piece of the round of beef weighing about ten or twelve 
pounds, tie it up with a strong string in the form of a round, take 
half a tablespoon of pepper, one of salt, one of ground cloves and 
two of sugar, rub these all over the meat the night before it is to 
be cooked, make a dressing of half a loaf of baker's bread, two 
tablespoons of sweet herbs, one of cloves, one of salt, half a one 
of pepper, and two eggs, well together, make holes in your meat 
about two inches apart, fill up with the dressing and sew up, stick 
an onion full of cloves, put into the pot and add two quarts of 
water — one of water and one of red wine makes it nicest — place 
skewers in the pot about two inches from the bottom, lay your beef 
on them, cover closely and stew gently, turn the meat two or three 
times while cooking, skim the fat from the water the meat is boiled 
in, thicken a little and use for gravy. — [Mrs. Sarah R. 
Turkey Roast. 
Lay slices of pickled pork over the breast and under the wings, 
over this spread a paste made of flour and water, roast in the oven, 
baste as usual, remove this cover ten or fifteen minutes before tak- 
ing the fowl from the oven. — [Mrs. N. B. Young. 

Duryeas' Corn Starch Omelet- 
Beat together two eggs and two tablespoonsful of the improved 
corn starch, add a teacup of milk, with a little pepper and salt, and 
sugar if desired. Fry them in a spider covered with butter, turn 
them several times, and roll them up, keeping them in motion till 
slightly browned. 

Boiled Ham- 

A ham has an excellent flavor if boiled as follows: Before cook- 
ing soak well in vinegar and water, then boil in water with heads 
of celery, two or three turnips, some of onions (if wished) and a 
handful of sweet herbs, put the ham in cold water and let it heat 
very gradually ; allow an hour's boiling to every four pounds. 

Royal is the only scientifically prepared baking powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 31 



To Improve Sausage Meat- 

To three pounds of sausage meat add two eggs and dried bread 

crumbs enough to work into balls and fry as usual. — [Mrs. O. B. 

Laurance. 

French Toast. 

Beat up two eggs well, put it into one pint of milk, cut a loaf of 
stale baker's bread in slices, home-made can be used, but is not so 
nice, dip them in the egg and milk in which a little salt has been 
put, lay the slices one upon another and let it stand several hours ; 
if wished for breakfast, prepare it the night before; if for dinner, 
in the morning; if for tea, at noon ; fry in butter and serve hot. — 
[Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



SOUPS. 



The foundation of all soups is uncooked meat. Cut it in small 
pieces, breaking the bones in pieces ; put on in cold water without 
salt and heat slowly, keep it covered and do not add salt until the 
meat is thoroughly done, as it has a tendency to harden the fibre s 
and restrain the juices of the meat, strain through a collender, if 
wished still clearer, through a hair sieve or coarse lace, the bag 
should not be squeezed. Most soups are better the second day 
than the first, removing the fat then that rises. Care should be 
taken to skim all kinds of soup, especially those made of fresh 
meat, the scum rises very thick just before it boils. One quart of 
water to a pound of meat is a good rule ; if it boils away add more. 
Some of the following soups have been taken from Marion Har- 
land's "Common Sense in the Household." upon the recommenda- 
tion of a friend : 

Duryeas' Corn Starch Ronz for Soups, Sauces and Gravies- 
Place on the fire one-half pound of butter, when hot, stir in half a 
pound of the Improved corn starch, allow it to take a little color — 
then remove it and put it aside. Small portions of this can be 
used for thickening soups or gravies instead of flour, and will be 
found far superior. It is an excellent dressing for fish. 

Every package of Royal Boking Powder is guaranteed. 



3 2 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Tomato Soup. 

Two and a half pounds of veal, one gallon water, two quarts 
fresh tomatoes peeled and cut up fine; boil the meat to shreds, and 
the water down to two quarts ; strain again and stir in a tablespoon 
of butter with a teaspoon of white sugar before serving. — [M. H. 
Tomato Soup- 
One dozen tomatoes pared and sliced, three quarts of water, one 
quarter pound of butter, one pint of cream, half teaspoon of soda, 
season with salt ; canned tomatoes can be used in place of fresh.— 
[Mrs. Caddie Chapman. 

Vegetable Soup- 

Three onions, three carrots, four turnips, one small cabbage, one 
bunch of celery, one pint of stewed tomatoes ; chop all the veget- 
ables, except tomatoes and cabbage, very finely and set over the 
fire, with rather more than three quarts of cold water ; they should 
simmer gently for half an hour, when the cabbage should be added, 
having previously been parboiled and chopped up; in fifteen min- 
utes more put in the tomatoes and a bunch of sweet herbs and give 
all a lively boil of twenty minutes; rub through a colender, return 
the soup to the fire, stir in a good tablespoon of butter, with pepper 
and salt; add half a cup of cream if you have it, thickened with 
corn starch ; let it boil up once and it is ready for the table. — [M.H. 

Corn Soup- 
One large fowl cut in pieces, one dozen ears of green corn, boil 
the chicken in a gallon of water until tender; if tough the boiling 
must be slow and long, then cut the corn from the cob and put into 
the pot and stew very gently one hour, remove the chicken with a 
cup of the liquid, if you wish to make other use of the meat, set 
this aside, season the corn soup with pepper, salt and parsley, thick- 
en, boil up once and serve without straining. A fricassee can be 
made of the ckicken, unless it has boiled to rags, by beating up an 
egg and a tablespoon of butter, adding this to the cup, of reserved 
liquor, from which the corn must be strained ; boil for a moment, 
thicken with flour, throw in a little chopped parsely, pepper and 
salt , pour, while hot, over the chicken. — [M. H. 



Royal Baking Powder keeps good always in any climate. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



33 



Bean Soup- 

Take a soup bone with plenty of marrow in it, have it well 
cracked, put it on to boil in one pot, while in another put on three 
pints or two quarts of beans ; as you need more water in the beans 
dip it from the pot containing the bone and when you put on 
fresh water put in the pot with the bone ; at last take the bone 
out and pour all the liquor into the beans. We put it on early in 
the morning and cook till dinner (5 o'clock) slowly. It is always 
much better the day after it is cooked. — [Mrs. I. G. Kimball. 

Potato Soup- 

A dozen mealy potatoes, two onions, if wished, one pound salt 
pork, three quarts of water. Boil the pork in the water for one 
and a half hours, then take it out, and take the potatoes, which, be- 
ing peeled and sliced should lie in cold water for half an hour, 
throw them into the pot with the chopped onions, cover and boil 
three quarters of an hour, stirring often, beat in a tablespoon of 
butter and a cup of cream or milk in which has been mixed a well 
beaten egg, add it carefully a little at a time, stir while it heats to a 
boil, then serve. — [Mrs. F. H. Hall. 

Veal and Sago Soup- 
Two and a half pounds of veal, one quarter pound of pearl sago 
one pint of milk, four eggs, three quarts of water, put the veal, 
chopped fine, into the water and boil for two hours, till the liquid 
is reduced about one-half; strain out the meat through a coarse 
cloth and put the soup again over the fire, meanwhile the sago 
should be washed and soaked half an hour in water enough to cov- 
er it, stir it into the strained broth and boil, stirring often to pre- 
vent lumping or scorching, half an hour more, heat the milk to 
boiling, beat the yolks of the eggs very light, mix wich the milk 
gradually, as in making boiled custard and pour, stirring all the 
time, into the soup, season with pepper and salt, boil up once to 
cook the eggs andserve. Should it be too thick after putting in the 
sago, thin with boiling water; should be the consistency of custard. 
This makes a rich but very nice soup. — [Miss Laura Kimball. 



Royai c an be had of nearly every grocer in the United States. 



34 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Noodles for EigM or Ten. Persons. 

Four eggs, eight tablespoons of milk and flour enough to roll 
out, and keep adding flour till it becomes a fine paste, then cut in 
strips and let it become a little dried before using. — [Mrs. Carrie 
Douglass. 

Sponge Noodles- 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then stir the 
yolks in very slowly, then' three teaspoons of sifted flour and a little 
salt. The whole mass is at once put in the soup and boiled a few 
minutes on both sides, and carry with the soup to the table ar.d cut 
into pieces. — [Mrs. D. 

Calf's Head or Mock Turtle Scrap- 

One calf's head, four pig's feet, prepare it the day before it is 
served, clean the head and feet nicely, cover them with a gallon of 
water, let them boil until the flesh will slip easily from the bones, 
take out the head and let the feet boil while you take the meat from 
the head, set aside, to cool, a teacup of the fatty portions which 
lie on the top of the head and cheeks, which, when cold, should 
be cut in small squares, chop the rest of the meat with the tongue, 
season, as wished, with herbs and spices and return to the pot, 
when the flesh falls from the feet take out the bones, leaving the 
gelatinous meat. Let it boil together slowly without removing the 
cover, for two hours, then take it out and set it away until the next 
day. An hour before dinner set the stock on to warm, removing 
the fat on the top, if not wished so rich. When it boils, strain 
carefully and drop in the meat you have reserved, with some force- 
meat balls. To prepare these rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
to a paste, adding gradually the brains to moisten them, also a little 
butter and salt, mix with these two eggs beaten very light, flour 
your hands and make this paste into very small balls, throw them 
into the soup five minutes before you take it off the fire, stir in a 
large tablespoonful of browned flour, rubbed smooth, in a little 
cold water, let it boil up once, then serve, add juice of a lemon 
if wished. It should not boil more than an hour the first day. — 
[M. H. 

Royal Baking Powder cans are always full weight. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. -~ 



Dumplings- 

One quart of flour, half pint of milk or water, butter the size of 
an egg, two teaspoons of cream tartar, put dry in the flour one 
teaspoon of soda in the milk or water, or three teaspoons of Royal 
Baking Powder in the flour, mix well together and drop into the 
soup while boiling.— [Mrs. Sarah R. 

Beef Soup- 

For a rich soup, allow three-quarters of a pound of beef to a per- 
son, if not half a pound, let it boil slowly, using one-third more 
water than you want soup, adding a little salt after it has been well 
skimmed, and a little rice or sago ; if too rich, occasionally skim 
the fat off. When the meat is done take it out before putting in 
the noodles or dumpings. Let it boil three hours. To make it in 
less time chop the meat and mix three spoonfuls of flour in butter 
the size of an egg, put it in the bottom of the soup kettle, allowing 
it to become a light brown, put your meat that has been cut up and 
a small onion cut up in it, in the butter and flour, stir this a lit- 
tle while and then add as much water as you want for soup Let 
it be covered closely and boil an hour. A little celery added while 
boiling and a little mace, when done is considered by some an im 
provement.— [Mrs. Carrie Douglass. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT OR FISH. 



Drawn Butter or Egg Sauce. 
Put half pint of water on the stove, rub quarter of a pound of 
butter in a large spoonful of flour, when the water boils, stir it and 
let it boil a few minutes, season with salt and parsley if wished. 
For egg sauce make the same and add one or two eggs boiled hard 
and chopped. 



Make some doughnuts with Royal Baking Powder. 



$6 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Bread Sauce for Roast Turkey- 
Simmer a sliced onion in one pint of milk till tender, strain and 
pour over one cup of bread crumbs. Let it soak half an hour, beat 
smooth, then add pepper and salt to taste, and half a cup of butter 
or the gravy from the dripping pan, stir well, if too thick add a 
little boiling water. 

Celery Sauce for Meat or Fowls- 
Boil two heads of celery in salted water until tender, drain and 
cut into small bits, thicken a teacup of the gravy in which the 
meat or fowls were boiled or baked, with a tablespoon of flour, add 
a tablespoon of butter and a lictle salt ; stir and beat until smooth, 
put in the celery, heat a little but not boil, serve as gravy or pour 
over the meat or fowls. 

Sauce for Meat or Fowls- 
Chop two hard boiled eggs and the livers of the chickens fine, add 
water, butter, pepper and salt, a little flour wet up and strained in, 
if wished thicker. , 

Cream Gravy for Baked Fish- 
Have ready in a sauce pan a cup of cream, diluted with a few 
spoonfuls of hot water lest it should curdle in heating, in which 
has been stirred carefully two tablespoons of melted butter, and a 
little chopped parsley, heat this in a vessel set within another of 
boiling water, add the gravy from the dripping pan, in which it was 
baked, boil up once to thicken and pour over the fish. 
Gravy for Fink- 
To one gill of boiling water add as much milk, and when it is 
schalding hot, stir in two tablespoons of butter, a little at a time, a 
tablespoon of flour previously wet with cold water, and as this thick- 
ens add two beaten eggs, season with salt, pepper and a little celery. 

flavoring. 

Sauoo for Fish- 

Put a tablespoon of butter into a frying pan and stir until it is 
browned, not burned, add half cup of boiling water in which has 
been stirred previously a tablespoon of browned flour, previously 
wet with cold water, add salt and pepper, and, if wished, the juice 
of one lemon and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and let it boil 
up well, pour over the fish. 

Always mix Royal Baking Powder with flour while dry. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 37 



VEGETABLES. 



Vegetables and Sauces Appropriate to different kinds of Meat. 

Potatoes are good with all meats, with fowls are the nicest 
mashed. 

Sweet potatoes are most appropriate with roast meat — as also are 
onions, winter squash, cucumber and asparagus. 

Carrots, parsneps, turnips, greens and cabbage, are best with 
boiled meat. 

Mashed turnip is nice with roasted pork and boiled meats. 

Tomatoes are good with every kind of meat, but especially so 

with roasts. 

Apple sauce with roast pork, cranberry sauce with beef, fowls, 
veal and ham, current jelly with roast mutton, pickles with roast 
meats. 

Horse radish is excellent with veal. 

To Preserve Corn- 
Take good sugar corn, boil until the milk is killed, when cold 
cut from the ear and put down in a new jar, three pints of corn 
and one of salt, put in a layer of salt, then one of corn, till the 
jar is full, cover well with salt, keep in a dry place. When opened 
for use remove the top, soak till perfectly fresh, then season as you 
would fresh corn, only add one tablespoon of white sugar, put it 
in the cream, and cook quite awhile in the cream. — [Mrs. C. War- 
ren, Jr. 

Browned Potatoes- 
Peel some large ripe potatoes and three-quarters of an hour be- 
fore a piece of roast beef is removed from the oven skim off the 
fat from the gravy, put the potatoes in the dripping pan, dredge 
them with flour and baste with the gravy and when quite brown 
drain on a sieve, place them about the meat in the dish when served. 

Beware of imitations of the Royal Baking Powder. 
5 



38 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Boiled Potatoes- 
Cut whole, boiled potatoes lengthwise and lay on a gridiron over 

a hot fire, brown on both sides, sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay 
bits of butter over them, serve hot. Cold sweet potatoes are also 
very nice prepared the same way. — [Mignon. 
Sweet Potatoes- 
Cold sweet potatoes are nice sliced and placed in the oven to 
warm, then pouring over them some cream or milk thickened a little 
and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

Parsneps- 
Scrape and split them, and put into a pot of boiling water, and 
cook until tender ; dress with butter, pepper and salt, or can be 
dipped in beaten egg and grated cracker and fried in lard. — [Mrs. 
Sarah K. 

Fried Parsneps- 
Boil tender and scrape the skins off, put on the stove with a little 

molasses, butter and salt, cover and let them cook until brown on 
both sides. — [Mrs. Will Chapman. 

Fried Parsneps 

Boil till tender and scrape, cut in thick slices lengthwise, dredge 
with flour and fry in lard or butter, browning both sides, salt and 
pepper ; serve hot. — [Mrs. Sarah K. 

Stewed Potatoes- 
Pare, quarter and soak them in cold water half an hour, stew 
them in enough cold water to cover them, add a little salt, just before 
taking up pour off part of the water, add a cupful of milk, with 
a little butter, pepper and salt, thicken with a little flour or one 
egg stirred in carefully. Serve hot in a buttered dish. — [L. A. K. 
Fried Cabbage- 
Chop the quantity of cabbage wished, put over the fire with vin- 
egar, water, pepper, salt and butter, cover closely and let it cook 

till tender, putting in more water if it boils down, when tender let 
it cook brown. — [Mrs. Hattie Chapman. 

Cauliflower 

Break off the green leaves, cut from the stalk close at the bottom. 
If large divide into four quarters, put into cold water and let it lie 
not over an hour, then put it into boiling milk and water, or water 
only — milk makes it white — skim while boiling, when the stalks are 
tender, take it up, have ready a cupful of nice drawn butter, pour 
over it, serve quickly, eat hot ; it darkens with standing. 

Royal Baking Powder is the purest, best and most economical. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 39 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Cover sliced ripe tomatoes with a nice batter and fry them in 
hot butter and lard mixed, or slice them, season with pepper and 
salt and fry in butter; if they are green dip them in flour, after 
being seasoned. Apples that will cook easily are also nice covered 
with batter and fried. — [Mrs. A. C. Keel and Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes- 
Take large smooth tomatoes, cut a thin slice from the blossom 
end of each laying aside for future use, scoop out the inside and 
chop fine with grated bread caumbs, salt, pepper and a little butter, 
mix well and stuff the tomatoes Fit the top on neatly, place 
around a deep dish and bake three-quarters of an hour to a light 
brown, do not peel them. If you have any of the "stuffing" left, 
fill the spaces between with it. — [Mrs. S. B. 

Baked Cabbage- 
Boil a firm, white cabbage fifteen minutes, then change the water 
for more that is boiling, boil till tender, drain and set aside till 
perfectly cold, then chop very fine, add salt, pepper, one tablespoon 
of butter, two eggs, well beaten, three tablespoons of rich milk or 
cream, mix well and bake in a buttered pudding dish in a moderate 
oven till brown, eat hot and serve in the pudding dish ; is very nice 
and more digestible than some other ways of using cabbage. — [Mrs- 
Lilly Stockbridge. 

Succotash 

Take one third more green corn than Lima Beans, some substi- 
tute string beans or butter beans, cut the corn from the cob and 
shell the beans, put into boiling water, enough to cover them — no 
more — and stew gently together until tender, perhaps half an hour, 
stirring now and then ; pour off nearly all the water and add a 
large cupful of milk, cream if you have it ; stew in this, watching 
to prevent burning, for about an hour, then stir in a piece of but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of flour with cold milk, if it is not thick 
enough, pepper and salt to taste ; boil up once and serve in a deep 
dish. If string beans are used, cut up into pieces about half an 
inch long before cooking. — [Mrs. Mattie Little and Mrs. S. B. 

The medical profession recommends Royal Baking Powder. 



4© HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Tomato Sauce* 

Scald and skin fifteen ripe tomatoes, strain through a sieve to 
remove the seeds, then put them in a saucepan with half pint of 
good beef gravy or "stock" from soup, a little pepper and salt and 
let them simmer an hour ; this is nice with beefsteak or any made 
dishes. 

Egg Plant- 
Pare and cut in slices half an inch thick, sprinkle a little salt 
between each slice, cover down and let it stand for an hour, then 
rinse off the salt with clear cold water, wipe each slice dry, dip 
first in beaten egg, then in rolled cracker or bread crumbs, season 
with pepper and salt and fry in butter or lard, till thoroughly 
done and a nice brown. — [Mrs. Lillie S. 

Scolloped Tomatoes. 

Take tomatoes fully ripe, scald, remove the skins, cover the bot- 
tom of a buttered pudding dish, a layer of tomatoes seasoned with 
pepper and salt, cover with another layer of bread and butter, and 
so alternately, until the dish is full, finishing at the top with toma- 
toes, bake in a moderate oven one half hour, serve hot in the dish 
in which it was baked. — [Mrs. John Gilbert. 

Asparagus Leaves- 
Cut up tender asparagus; boil and drain it, take stale rolls, cut 
off the tops neatly and scrape out the inside, set in the oven to 
crisp without the tops, that the cavities may be well dried ; mean- 
while put into a sauce pan the quantity of milk needed, and when 
boiled stir in well beaten eggs four to a pint of milk, until it thick- 
ens, when add a little butter, pepper and salt, lastly the asparagus 
— do not let it boil but take from the fire as soon as the asparagus 
is all in, fill the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, fitting ac- 
curately (it is well to place the tops beside the rolls when first set 
in the oven to dry so that you will know where they belong) set in 
the oven a few minutes, arrange them in a dish and eat hot. 

Royal Baking Powder only is used by ihe U. S. Army and Navy. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



41 



Fried Cucumbers* 

Pare and lay them in ice-water half an hour, cut lengthwise into 
slices nearly half an inch thick and lay in ice-water still a little 
longer, wipe each piece dry, sprinkle with pepper, salt and flour and 
fry in butter. Very nice and more wholesome than when served 
raw. — [Mrs. Lillie S. 

Macaroni a la Creme- 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook ten or fiften 
minutes in boiling water, drain this off and add a cup of milk and 
stew until tender, having put in a little salt ; in another sauce pan 
heat a cup of milk to boiling, thicken with a little flour, add a 
tablespoon of butter, and lastly a beaten egg, pour this over the 
macaroni after it is dished ; if used as a vegetable grate a little 
cheese over the top, if for desert eat with sweet sauce. — [Mrs. 
W. S. 

Baked Macaroni- 
Break half a pound into inch lengths put into a sauce pan of 
boiling water with a little salt, boil till perfectly tender but not 
split or broken, drain well, butter a pudding dish, into which put 
alternate layers of the macaroni and grated cheese, with bits of 
butter, scattered thickly over the cheese ; finish with a layer of 
macaroni, well buttered with a little cheese grated on the top, add 
a few spoonfuls of milk or cream and a very little salt, cover the 
dish and bake half an hour then brown nicely and serve in the dish 
in which it was baked. — [Mrs. W. S. 

Macaroni a la Mode- 
Take a quart of stock — directions for making which will be 
found under "Soups" — break macaroni, enough to half fill your 
baking dish, into pieces two inches long and boil until tender — no 
longer — salting a little, grate, cheese enough to fill a soup plate 
heaping full and running over, then butter your baking dish and 
fill alternate layers of macaroni and grated cheese wetting each 
layer of macaroni with some of the stock and tomatoes till used 
up, finish with a layer of grated cheese as that browns nicely, bake 
in a slow oven from two to four hours ; is enough for a family of 
from six to ten persons ; is very nice. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Royal Baking Powder is reco?mnended by the authors of this book 



42 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



PIES, 



Raised pies should have a quick oven ; no pie should have water 
put in till just before being put into the oven. Pastry requires a 
moderate heat. A teacup of lard to a quart of flour will make 
good common crust ; this quantity will make two large pies. If 
you wish to save sugar in the use of gooseberries, rhubarb, &c , 
you can add a little soda without in the least affecting the flavor, if 
you do not add too much. In ordinary sized pie or pudding as 
much may be added as would cover a five cent piece. If you wash 
the upper crust with milk just before putting them in the oven they 
will make a beautiful brown. In fruit pies it is a good idea to fold 
the upper crust underneath the under to retain the juice. 

Potato Crust- 
One teacup of cream to six good sized potatoes, boiled and 
mashed fine, add salt and flour enough to roll, must be handled a s 
little as possible. 

Crust for Meat Pies or Fruit Cobblers 
One quart of flour, three tablespoons of lard, two and half cups 
of milk, one teaspon of soda wet with hot water and stirred into 
the milk, two of cream tar:ar sifted into the dry flour or three of 
Royal Baking Powder instead of soda and cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon of salt, work up quickly taking care not to get too stiff. — 
[Mrs. Sarah K. 

Tart Crust- 
One cup of lard, one tablespoon of white sugar, the white of one 
egg, three tablespoons of water, flour enough to roll on. — {Mrs. 
Addie Howard. 

Common Pie Crust- 

One heaping handful of flour, one tablespoon of lard or butter, 
will make one small pie. — [Mrs. D. B. Strope. 
Rich Puff Paste- 
Three quarts of flour, half pound of lard and one pound of but- 
ter. — [Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

Try Royal Baking Powder in apple dumplings. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 43 

Sweet Apple Pie- 
Bake sweet apples, grate them fine, mix with sweet milk, add a 
teacup sweet cream or half cup of butter, one egg to each pie, sea- 
son'as preferred and bake with one crust. 

Sweet Potato Pie- 
Have ready a rich crust, lay in slices of boiled sweet potato and 
thin"slices of a mellow apple, spread thickly with sugar and butter, 
add spices, 'cover with a crust and bake nicely. — [Mrs. Clara Chap- 
man. 

Maple Syrup Pie- 
One cup thick" maple syrup, rind and juice of one lemon, one 
egg, one teaspoon of flour, bake with two crusts, or nice syrup of 
any kind can be used, with same ingredients, baked with crust un- 
derneath and narrow strips of crust laid in a net work over the top. 
—[Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

Acid Pie- 
One cup of sugar, one teaspoon of lemon extract, one scant tea- 
spoonful of tartaric acid, two eggs, on tablespoon of flour, beaten 
smoothly with water, and water enough to fill the pie. — [Mrs. Ella 
Morganthaler. 

Icing Pies- 
Make a good crust and bake, spread with any kind of jelly, beat 
the whites of four eggs and add one pound of sifted sugar, a little 
tartaric acid, fill the plate with icing, put in the stove till slightly 
browned. Drop icing in for ornament, then dry it; it must remain 
white. This makes two pies. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Lemon Pie- 
Grate the rinds of four lemons and queeze the juice on the 
grated rind ; take nine eggs, leaving out the whites, one pound 
of white sugar, half pound of butter, one pint milk, beat together, 
add the milk last and divide in four pies, bake till done ; beat the 
whites that are left, add sugar, spread over the tops of the pies and 
bake till light brown. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Make a starch cake with royal Baking Powder. 



44 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Pie Pastry- 
One cup of water, four of flour, one of lard, mixed with flour, 
one of butter rollen in. — [Mrs. N. B. Young. 

Royal Mince Pies- 
One quart best sour apples, chopped fine, one pint good beef and 
half pint of kidney suet chopped fine, half pint chopped and half 
pint whole raisins, one pint canned currants, blackberries or rasp- 
berries, one and a half pints best brown sugar, three-quarters of a 
pint of boiled cider, half tablespoon good cider vinegar, one table- 
spoon of salt, one small bottle Royal Extract for mince pies- — 

[Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

Mince Pie- 
Three pounds of beef, five of apples, one tablespoon of cinna" 
mon, one teaspoon each of cloves and mace, two lemons chopped 
fine, one pound of sugar, one cup of molasses or more, if not sweet 
enough to your taste, one pound each of currants, raisins and cit- 
ron, brandy to suit yourself, use cider or water to make it thin. — 

[Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Mince Pie. 

One pound each of beef, currants and raisins, three of apples, 
three of sugar, one and a half of citron, one tablespoon of cinna- 
mon, one nutmeg, cloves if you like, half pint of brandy and cider 
until thin enough to bake, little salt. — [Mrs. A. P. Kyle. 

Cream Pie- 
One pound of butter, four eggs, sugar, salt and flavoring, to 
taste, two teaspoons of arrow-root, upon which pour a quart of 
boiling milk and stir the whole together ; should be baked in deep 
dishes. — [Miss Estella Ray. 

Cream Pie. 
One pint sweet milk, boil and add three-quarters teacup of sugar, 
three-quarters of a tablespoon of corn-starch or flour, one teaspoon 
essence of lemon, yolks ot three eggs, mix well together with half 
teacup of sweet cream and added to the boiling milk; bake the 
crust, then pour in the custard ; spread over the tops the whites 
of the eggs thoroughly beaten with half teacup of sugar and one 
teaspoon essence of lemon ; place in the oven and brown lightly. — 
[Mrs. Keil. 

The best hotels in New York use Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 45 

Lemon Pie- 
Grate the lemon, add^a small bit of butter, a large cup of sugar, 
the yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon of flour, half cup of water, 
beat well together, bake in a rich paste without upper crust, beat 
the whites of the eggs with a little sugar into a light frosting, 
spread on the top of the pie, and brown lightly. — [Mrs. Roda- 
baugh. 

Lemon Pie. 

One large lemon, yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoon of flour, one cup of luke-warm water in which dissolve a 
small piece of butter, and last add the white of the egg beaten 
well ; bake between two crusts. — [Mrs. Dills. 

Three Lemon Pies 'with One Lemon- 
Take one lemon, pare the outside off as thin as possible in small 
bits, add to it the juice with the pulp chopped fine, one and a half 
cups of sugar, half cup of flour with one large cup cold water, 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, one large cup hot water, 
three eggs, crust top and bottom. — [Mrs. James Cairns. 

Lemon Pie and Raisins- 
One large cup of raisins chopped, one large cup of milk, three 
lemons, the rind grated, all the juice and pulp, sugar to your taste ; 
this makes three pies. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Lemon Pie- 
One cup hot water, one of sugar, one tablespoon of corn starch, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon ; cook for a few minutes, add 
one egg, bake with top and bettom crust ; makes one pie. — [Mrs- 
Nettie Lord. 

Summer Minoe Pie. 

Four Boston crackers broken up fine, one and a half cups of 
sugar, one of molasses, one of cider, one of water, two-thirds o f 
butter, one of chopped raisins, two eggs beaten and stirred in last, 
brandy and spice to taste ; vinegar can be used in place of cider. — 
[Mrs. James Cairns. 

Royal Baking Powder is necessary to successful baking. 



46 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Potato Pie- 
One and a quarter pounds of potatoes, one-half pound of butter, 
six eggs, beaten separately, boil the potatoes, mash very fine, work 
the butter and sugar as for cake, then add the potatoes cool but not 
cold; flavor with lemon and grate a little nutmeg on top. — [Mrs. 
John Hough. 

Currant Pie- 
Four tablespoons of currants, four of sugar, one of flour, five of 
water will make one pie. — [Miss. Hattie Woodward. 

Substitute for Lemons. — Two teaspoons tartaric acid and three 
or four crackers crumbed and soaked, take the place of lemons. — 
Mrs. M. B. 

Huckleberries, or berries of a like character are improved by 
sprinkling in a few red currants or the juice of a lemon with them. 

Coeoamit Pies (very nice.) 
One cocoanut, half its weight in butter, its weight in sugar, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, six eggs, one pint of milk, and milk 
of the cocoanut ; stir the butter and sugar together, then add the 
eggs, then the lemon and cocoanut ; put the milk in the last th ing 
before baking. — [Mrs. Rowland. 

Custard Pie- 

Four eggs to a quart of milk is the common rule, but very nice 
custard can be made with two eggs and two large spoonfuls of corn- 
starch ; the corn starch should be mixed smoothly with milk and 
the eggs beaten up in it and then thinned out with more milk, 
sweeten and flavor to taste. — [Mignon. 

Apple Pudding Pie- 
One quart stewed apples, one pint of cream, sugar to taste, four 
eggs, nutmeg, put the apples through a sieve; milk instead of cream, 
with butter added, will answer, but not so nice. — [Mrs. Henry 

Little. 

Cocoanut Pie- 
One good sized cocoanut grated, one quart of milk sweetened 
like custard, piece of butter the size of a walnut in each pie ; four 
eggs to the quart.; — [Mrs. Ryce. 

You can always rely on Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 47 

Pumpkin Pie without Eggs- 
One quart strained pumpkin, three pints of milk, two table- 
spoons of corn starch, two of flour, half teaspoon of ginger, makes 
four pies. — [Mrs. E. P. Howe. 

Cocoanut Pie, 
One cocoanut grated, one cup of milk, four tablespoons of sugar, 
four eggs, make two pies. — [Mrs. Jane Moyer. 
Pumpkin Pie- 
One quart stewed pumpkin, pressed through a sieve, nine eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, two quarts milk, one and a half 
cups of sugar, season to taste ; beat well together and bake with no 
upper crust ; a little butter improves it ; little salt. — [Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball. 

Squash Pie- 
Made like pumpkin pie with one more egg to a pie. 



PUDDINGS. 



Baked, bread, Indian meal, or custard puddings require an oven 
with a moderate heat ; batter and rice a quick oven. Always but- 
ter your pan or dish before putting them in. In boiling puddings 
put them in while the water boils , if boiled in tin, rub it over with 
butter first, if in a bag dip it first in boiling water, flour it well to 
prevent the pudding sticking to the cloth. The water must be kept 
boiling all the time. When done take it up, untie the string, wrap 
the cloth round the basin, lay your dish over it and turn the pud- 
ding out, take off the basin and cloth carefully. To cut a boiled 
pudding without making it heavy warm the blade of the knife first. 

Good goods, like Royal Baking Powder ; are cheapest. 



48 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Pudding Sauce. 

One heaped tablespoon of butter, five of sugar, mix well, add 
one egg well beaten and beat all together thoroughly with one glass 
of wine or brandy. When you sit down to dinner put the bowl 
containing the sauce on the top of a boiling tea-kettle. It must 
just melt and not cook, not be stirred after it begins to melt. — [Mrs. 
Jesse Williams. 

Foam Sauce- 
One cup of sugar, two-thirds of butter, juice of one lemon ; beat 
this to a cream, place over the fire and stir in quickly one gill of 
water. — [Mrs. CM. Dawson. 

Sour Sauce- 
One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of vinegar, in 
which one tablespoon of corn starch or flour has been stirred, set 
over the fire and pour in boiling water enough to make the right 
consistency ; flavor to taste. — [Mrs. S. R. K. 

Suet Pudding- 

One cup of sour milk, one of molasses, one of suet, one of rais- 
ins, three of flour, one teaspoon each of salt, soda and cloves, two 
of cinnamon, one nutmeg. Steam three hours or boil two and a 
half. — [Mrs John Hough. 

Corn Meal Suet Pudding- 

One cup of beef suet chopped fine, one of sour milk, half tea- 
spoon of soda, one cup of molasses, two of corn meal, one tea. 
spoon salt, pour into a two-quart pan, set into a steamer over boil- 
ng water ard tte;m twc hems, strve with butter. — [Mrs. Pool. 

Do not use sour milk with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



49 



Brown Beaver 

One cup chopped suet or pork, one of molasses, or half cup of 
molasses and half cup of sugar, one of sweet milk, one teaspoon 
of soda, three-quarters each of nutmeg, cloves, allspice and cinna- 
mon, one cup raisins chopped fine, flour enough to make as stiff as 
fruit cake. — [Miss Augusta Hutchinson and Miss Mollie Kimball. 
Steamed Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one of chopped pork, one of new milk, 
three of flour, one cup of raisins, two eggs, one teaspoon of soda. 
— [Mrs. Douglass. 

Plain Steamed Pudding- 
Three cups corn meal two and a half of Graham flour, two- 
thirds of molasses, two teaspoons soda, one quart of sour milk, salt, 
sauce to suit yourself. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Uncle William's Pudding- 

One cup milk, half of sugar, one-quarter of butter, one egg, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, two spoonfuls of baking powder, 
one cup of raising, steam two hour and serVe with liquid sauce. — 
[Mrs. I. G. Kimball. 

Black Pudding 

One cup sweet milk, one of" molasses, half of sugar, half of flour, 
six eggs, teaspoon each of soda, ground cloves and cinnamon, put 
in pudding dish and steam one hour. — [Mrs. C. Stanley. 

Porcupine Pudding- 
Make a sponge cake, after it is baked, put into a deep dish, pour 
over it a boiled custard, made of the yolks of four ego-s and a 
quart of milk, put the whites of the eggs, well beaten with a little 
sugar sprinkled, in over the top ; set in the oven to dry, then take 
one-half pound of blanched almonds and split them then stick 
them into the frosting as thickly as possibly. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Cocoauut Pudding- 
Make a custard with one quart of milk and four eggs, sweeten to 
t aste, grate a cocoanut and stir it in the custard ; bake in a quick 
oven.— [Mrs. F. H. Hall. 



Have your oven hot when you use Royal Baking Powder. 



50 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Cocoanut Pudding (to be eaten cold-) 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one teacup grated bread, one of 
sugar, one cocoanut grated, little salt, flavor to taste. — [Mrs. John 
Hough. 

Delmonico Pudding- 
One pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoons of corn starch > 
two of sugar, little salt ; beat the yolks, sugar and corn starch to- 
gether, scald the milk and pour the mixture in, boil a moment, fla- 
vor to taste, beat the whites to a froth, add sugar, and place on the 
top, put in the oven to brown ; to be eaten cold. If wished lar- 
ger, use one ' quart of milk and another tablespoon of corn starch. 
—[Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

Winthrop House Pudding- 
Two cups of tapioca to a quart of water, soak it until it looks 
clear, about fifteen minutes, then set the pan on the stove, and warm 
until it thickens, when pour it into the dish you wish to bake it in, 
in which have previeusly been placed apples, pared and cored ; 
bake an hour and a half; to be eaten with cream or milk and su- 
gar. — [Mrs. Henry Little. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Pare and core six tart apples, fill them with sugar, place them 
around a dish, put over them a batter, composed of six ouces of 
flour, salt and three eggs, with a small quantity of milk added by 
degrees ; bake moderately for one hour. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Queen of Puddings- 
One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup sugar, 
the^j yolks of four eggs beaten, grated rind of one lemon, ^ piece of 
butter size of an egg, bake until done but not watery, whip the 
whites stiff and stir in a teacup of sugar and the juice of the lemon, 
spread over the pudding, jelly, preserved fruit, jam or any nice 
fresh fruit ; put the whites of the eggs over this and place in the 
oven and brown lightly. Is best eaten with cold cream. — [Mrs. 
JesseVWilliams, Mrs. K. P. Smith andjMrs. Keil, &c. 

Yon cannot fail if you use Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 5 I 

Every Day Pudding- 
Half loaf of stale bread soaked in a quart of milk, four eggs, 
four tablespoons of flour, a little fruit dried, or fresh, improves it • 
steam three-quarters of an hour, serve with sauce made of butter, 
sugar and water, thickened with corn starch and flavored with 
lemon. — [Mrs. Bittinger. 

Love Pudding- 
Five tablespoons of flour, same of milk, five eggs, little salt, boil 
one quart of milk and stir in these ingredients; bake fifteen min- 
utes, eat with butter and sugar mixed together, flavored to taste or 
cream and sugar. — [Mrs. Jessie Williams and Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

Bread Pudding -without Milk- 
Take five eggs well beaten, three slices of dry bread, cut in small 
pieces, little salt, one quart of water and half cup of raisins ; mix 
well together and bake in a buttered dish, serve hot with butter 
sauce, flavored to taste. — [Mrs. T. R. Pickard. 
Virginia Pudding- 
One teacup of butter, one of sugar, one teaspoon of soda, beaten 
together, then add one cup of molasses, two eggs, beaten separately 
and one pint of flour ; bake about an hour. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Cottage Pudding- 
One cup of sugar, two and a half tablespoons of butter, one egg, 
one cup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, flavor to suit; to be eaten with liquid sauce. — [Mrs. Ruth- 
rauffandMrs. H. Hamilton. 

Cottage Pudding- 
Half cup of sugar, one of water, one of flour, one egg, two tea- 
spoons of butter, three spoonfuls of sugar, two of flour, mix well 
and pour boiling water on it, stir well and flavor with nutmeg. — 
[Mrs. A. C. Keel. 

Rice Pudding. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste, three pints of milk, in which put a 
cup of rice. Set in the oven and let it cook slowly until the rice 
is soft, add raisins if liked. — [Mrs. Hattie Chapman. 

Try the Recipes in this book with Royal Baking Powder. 



52 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Batter Pudding without Eggs- 
One quart of flour, three spoonfuls of baking powder, one cup 
of shortening, little salt, milk or water enough for a stiff batter ; 
steam one hour and a half, serve with liquid sauce, stir in fruit if 
wished. — [Mrs. Ann Kimball and Mrs. John Gilbert. 

Batter Pudding- 
One and a half pints of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, flour enough so that it will run from a 
a spoon, two teaspoons of baking powder ; steam one or one and a 
half hours. — [Mrs. Geo. L. Little, Miss Emma Hardy. 

Sago Pudding- 
Rinse the sago in cold water, to one quart of Smilk add half pint 
of sago, stir it over a moderate fire until it thickens like starch, 
then take it from the fire, mix with it three pints of milk, a small 
cup of sugar, four eggs, well beaten, one nutmeg, one teaspoon of 
salt, the grated rind of one lemon, and one-quarter pound of 
seeded raisins ; bake three-quarters of an hour. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin 
and Mrs. Will Joslin. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
One cup of tapioca soaked overnight in one quart of water, one 
cup white sugar; pare and core nine large apples, pour tapioca 
over and bake an hour, serve with cream sauce. — [Mrs. Jesse 
Williams. 

Stale Cake Pudding- 

To one quart of milk add five eggs beaten lightly, pu: the cake 
spread with butter, on the top of the custard and bake twenty min- 
utes. — [Mrs. Brown. 

Snow Balls - 

To one-third of a pound of rice allow a quart of sweet milk, 
boil the rice in one pint of water, when the water is absorbed add 
the milk, let it boil till quite tender, stir to prevent burning, put 
in flavoring just before taking it off, when soft put it in teacups, 
let it remain until cold, turn out on a dish and pour over it a stiff 
froth with a little sugar and juice of a lemon, and place on the top 
of each ball, with a little preserve or jelly in the center. It can be 
moulded in a large dish instead of cups if wished. — [Mrs. Annie K. 



Take none but Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Ground Rice Pudding 

Save from a quart of milk half cup to mix., four tablespoons of 
ground rice, put the milk over the fire and when boiling hot, add 
the nee and stir until it thickens, one cup of white sugar, four eggs 
twelve almonds, blanched and pounded, with five drops of almond 
essence and little salt, bake till a spooa cm, fe phi iuto i, and no 
milk appearance be seen.— [Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 
■ 
Poor Man's Pudding (very nice) 
One p,nl ol molasses, two-thirds of a cup of suet, broken iu 
small pic.es, flour enough to make it a little stiffer than cup cake 
One pmt ol cranberries, put in uncooked, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one of soda, spires to .suit the taste, boil four hours in a 
bag or mold, can be steamed ,f preferred. -[Miss Kittie Little ami 
Miss Emma Hardy. 

Green Corn Pudding 

Eighteen ears of corn grated; from eight to ten eggs, two quarts 
of milk, two tablespoons of sugar, one of rolled cracker or flour 
little salt and a small piece of butter.— [Mrs. Dr. Chapman 

Green Corn Pudding 

Grate twelve ears of corn, one quart of sweet milk, one-quarter 
pound of butter, four eggs, pepper and salt, bake in a buttered dish, 
if wished omit pepper and add sugar to taste.— [Mrs. W. C. 

Quick Made Indian Pudding. 

Two quarts of sweet milk, beal until ready to boil, have two eggs 
well beaten with two Upijg tablespoons of sugar, put a smTh 
bece of butter and a fittie sal, into the boiling milk, sprinkle with 
the hand and stir in a teacup of Indian meal, stir in the eg2> 
quickly, bake quickly in a hot oven. Raisins improve it - 
[•'Cariad." 

Black Pudding- 

One cup of molasses, half of butter, one of milk, two of flour half 
teaspoon of soda, fruit and spices, steam two hours.-[Mrs Clark 
son. 



The Company will send yon Whfie of Royal Baking Powder. 



54 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Baked Indian Pudding- 
Dip out a teacup full from a quart of sweet milk, scald the rest 
and stir five heaping tablespoons of sifted Indian meal, into the hot 
milk, adding a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, one tablespoon of 
ginger, two tablespoons of sugar, half cup of molasses and last the 
cup of cold milk ; bake slowly two hours. Serve with sauce. — 
[Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Make with milk and Indian meal a pint of tolerably thick mush, 
let it boil till thoroughly scalded and set away to cool, when cool 
add two well beaten eggs, a small cup of sugar or molasses, one 
tablespoon of ginger, half teaspoon of cinnamon, little salt, fill up 
a two-quart basin with cold milk and mix thoroughly, set it in the 
oven and when well crusted over stir the crust in, adding a few 
raisins and about half cup of butter, serve with liquid sauce. — [Miss 
Annie K. 

Dried Peach Roll- 
Make dough as for biscuit, roll out and spread with peaches, pre- 
viously stewed, roll up and place a wet cloth closely around it, 
steam three-quarters of an hour. Stewed cranberries or any kind 
of fruit can be used in the same manner. 

Sauce for it. — Piece of butter, the size of sn egg, three table- 
spoons of sugar, one of flour, one pint of the water- in which the 
peaches were stewed- — [Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

Lemon Pudding- 

Two cups of loaf sugar, one-half butter, rubbed together, one of 
milk, six eggs, one large lemon, grate the find, bake in a paste. — 
[Mrs. John Hough. 

Peach Cohhler- 

Make a rich biscuit crust, put it rolled thick around the dish 
put in a layer of peaches, then butter and sugar, and very little 
flour, then peaches and so on till the dish is full, cover with a thick 
crust, cut a slit in the centre and pour in boiling water until full, 
bake until you think it done. — [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Royal Baking Powder makes delicious s/iort cake. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 5 5 

Apple Dowdy- 
Baked like peach cobbler, using if wished, molasses instead of 
sugar and spices, break the crust in when served. 

Paradise Pudding. 

Three apples chopped fine, half cup of currants, half of sugar, 

two of bread crumbs, three eggs, grated rind and juice of half 

lemon, little salt, half wine glass of brandy, although it is go.od 

without, boil one and a half hours, serve with liquid sauce. — [Mrs. 

F. H. Hall. 

Tipsey Pudding:- 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices; spread it with currant 
jelly or preserves, put -two pieces together like sandwiches and lay 
them in a dish, make a soft custard, pour over it while hot, let it 
cool before serving. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one of soda, 

half cup of sugar, pint and a half berries, dissolve the soda in 

water enough to make as stiff as cream tartar biscuit, steam one and 

half hours, this is nice for any kind of berries. —[Miss Sadie 

Kimball. 

Eve's Pudding. 

Half pound of suet, half teaspoon of salt, half pound of pared 
and chopped apples, half pound of flour, half pound of raisins 
dredged with flour, five eggs, one nutmeg, glass of brandy, chop 
and mix the suet and apple, beat the sugar into the yolks of the 
eggs, mix all together, putting in the whites just before placing in 
the oven, bake two hours. * — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Apple Dumplings- 
Pare, quarter and core some tart apples and half fill a three-pint 
dish and nearly cover them with water, make a crust of one pint of 
flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar and one-half of soda, one cup 
of milk, roll out and cover the apples, place it on top of the stove 
and another dish the same size over it, and let it steam half 
an hour. For sauce, take two large spoonfuls of butter mixed with 
one spoonful of flour, add one pint of boiling water, stir quickly 
and let it boil, add two-thirds of a cup ot sugar, half a nutmeg 
and a little salt. — [Mrs. Nellie Matoon. 



Buy the old standard Royal Baking Powder. 



56 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Fig Pudding- 
Half pound of figs, half cup of buttea, half cup of bread crumbs, 
one tablespoon of ginger, three eggs, one cup of milk, chop the 
figs, add cinnamon, nutmeg, and wines if you like, boil three 
hours, to be eaten with sauce. — [Miss C, R. 

Blow-Ups- 

Four cups of sweet milk, four cups of flour, lour eggs, salt, bake 
in cups, repeat or lessen the quantity as you like { this makes six- 
teen. Bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven, to be eaten with 
liquid sauce. — [Mrs. M. J. C7raff. 

Snow Pudding (very nice) 

Half cup of gelatine, cover it with cold water and soak an hour, 
add one cup of sugar, one teacup boiling water, the juice of one 
lemon and the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, beat the 
whole together (after stirring the gelatine thoroughly) serve with 
boiled custard made with the yolks of the eggs and a pint of milk, 
serve cold.— [Mrs. Burnham, Mrs. N. B. Young and Miss Emma 
Hardy. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding- 
Wash a coffecup of tapioca and put in to soak over night in a 
pint of water, then add one pint of line chopped apples, a little 
sugar, salt and little water, Savor to taste. — [Mrs. Hattie H. Little 

and Mrs. Hankins. 

English Plum Pudding- 
Beat four eggs until light, add one teaspoon of salt, one pound 
01 enpppedsuet, then take three tablespoons of sugar, two wine- 
glasses of brandy and the same of milk, one nutmeg, cloves and 
cinnamon, then add one pound each pi currants and raisins, one" 
quarter pound of citron and one pound of flour ; boil five hours. — 

[Mrs. Robert Lowry. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One pound dried bread crumbs, soaked in a pint of milk, one 
pound of beef suet chopped fine, one of currants, one of raisins, 
one pound of brown sugar, one of flour, three ounces citron, one 
nutmeg grated, nine eggs, one and a half pints of brandy — soak rai- 
sins in the brandy before mixing. Steam six hours. — [Mrs. N. B. 

Young. 

___ I ■■ 

Be sure you have the Royal Baking Powder then go ahead. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 57 

Plum Pudding. 

One and a half loaves of baker's bread, two pounds each of 
brown sugar and raisins, half of chopped suet, three teaspoons of 
ground cloves, eight eggs well beaten ; cut the bread in thin slices 
the night before and cover with sweet milk ; in the morning mash 
your bread well and add eggs, etc., and bake three hours in a slow 
oven, after half hour's baking stir with a spoon to prevent the fruit 
from settling ; serve with brandy sauce. This is good for weeks if 
kept in a cool place. Is best warmed when wanted. — [Mrs. J. B. 
Morse. 

Cherry Pot Pie. 

Roll out crust enough to line the pot around the sides, stone the 
cherries, place a layer in the bottom with half pint of water, sugar, 
then a layer of the crust and so on alternately until the size wished, 
put a layer of the crust on top with a slit in the center ; cover 
closely and boil three-quarters of an hour. Peach or apple can be 
made in the same manner. — [Mrs. John Gilbert. 

Plain Plum Pudding. 

One cnp dried bread crumbs rolled fine, one quart of milk, one 
teaspoon baking powder, one egg, fruit, serve with liquid sauce? 
steam one hour. — i [Mrs. O. B. Laurence. 

Baked Apple Dumpling- 
First prepare apples ; take one quart sifted flour, three teaspoon- 
fuls Royal Baking Powder, well mixed with the flour while dry, a 
little salt, shortening the size of two eggs; make dough soft with 
water, cover the apples and bake quickly in a hot oven ; serve with 
butter, cream or brandy sauce. — [Mrs. Hoagland. 



Nothing is so good for the purpose as Royal Baking Powder. 



58 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS & VARIETIES. 



Sago Cream 
Take a dessert spoonful of sago and boil it in one pint of water, 
to a jelly ; add a tea-cup of cream, let it boil again, beat up an egg, 
very light and pour the boifeng sago on it, add sugar and flavoring 

to taste. — ]Mrs. . 

Almond Custard 

One pint of new milk, one teacup of white sugar, one-quarter 
pound of almonds blanched and pounded, with two spoonfuls of 
rose water. Into these ingredients stir the yolks of four eggs in a 
spider over a slow fire until as thick as cream, then remove it quick- 
ly to a deep dish, beat the whites of the eggs with a little sugar 
added and a few drops of brandy; spread it over the custard. — ; 
[Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Caramel Custard- 
One quart of milk, four eggs, five tablespoonfuls of brown sugar 
burned and stirred in while boiling. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Apple Island - 

Pare and- stew ten large apples, sift through a fine sieve, add one 
teacup of fine powdered sugar and the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth , stir thoroughly until all are well mixed, take three 
pints of milk, the yolks of four eggs and one teacup of sugar, boil 
slowly for five minutes, flavor with vanilla, serve in dessert dishes 
same as floating island. — [Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 

Apple Snow 

Take one dozen good cooking apples, pare and core them, put 
in a steamer and steam until well done, then mash fine ; beat the 
whites of one dozen eggs to a stiff froth, mix well together apples, 
eggs, one pint of fine white sugar, one teaspoon of essence of lemon, 
put in glass dishes and dot it over with bits of jelly. It is beautiful 
to the eye and delicious to the taste. — [Mrs. T. R. Pickard. 



The test housekeepers will take none other than Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 59 

Tapioca Cream- 
Three tablespoon fuls of tapioca, one quart of sweet milk, three 
eggs, soak the tapioca over night in a cup of the milk, in the morn- 
ing add the rest of the milk, putting it in a tin pail, set in boiling 
water, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs and sufficient sugar to 
sweeten, flavor with lemon or vanilla, cooking it like boiled custard, 
when ready to serve beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with 
three tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar and pour over it, set in the 
oven and brown lightly. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Velvet Cream- 
Set the pan in hot water over the fire, put in it one quart of sweet 
milk, three tablespoon fuls of sugar, four sheets of Cooper's isin- 
glass, separate four eggs, beat the yolks and stir into the milk until 
as thick as boiled custard, and be careful it does not curdle, strain 
through a mosquito net and set away to cool. Before sending to 
the table stir in one-third of the whites of the eggs, stirring hard ; 
flavor with a tablespoon of extract. Put the remainder of the 
whites over the top and grate nutmeg on it. — [Mrs. Henry Little. 

Velvet Cream- 
One and a half pints of cream or new milk, half pint of wine, hal 
pound of sugar, one ounce of gelatine, dissolve the gelatine in thef 
wine over the fire and when quite cool mix in the other ingredients 
and pour into moulds. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Fruit Cream- 

Lay in a dish, jam or fruit, take half ounce gelatine dissolved 
in a little warm water, add one pint of rich cream, sweeten to taste, 
add a little salt, boil a few minutes, when nearly cold pour over the 
fruit or jam, fruit of different colors, arranged tastefully looks very 
pretty covered with cream. — [Mrs. Clara C. 

Snow Cream- 
To one cup of cream add one of sugar, one egg well beaten ex- 
tract of lemon, stir in fine snow until about as thick as ice-cream, 
and eat like it. — [Mrs. C. L. Smith. 



Royal Baking Powder is always uniform in its action. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Chocolate Cream Custard- 

Scrape one-quarter pound of the best chocolate, pour on it one 
spoonful of boiling water and let it stand by the fire until it is well 
dissolved beat eight eggs very light, omitting the whites of two 
stir them by degrees into a quart of rich milk, alternately with th ' 
chocolate and three tablespoons of white sugar, put the mixture 
into cups and bake ten minutes, beat up the whites you have re 
served with a little sugar and place on the tops, then set in the 
oven again and brown lightly.— [Miss Estella Ray 

Italian Cream. 
One half box gelatine, one quart of milk, when dissolved add 
the yolks of three eggs with three tablespoons of sugar, boil until 
as thick as soft custard, when remove from the fire and stir in the 
whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, flavor to taste -rMrs 
Geo. L. Little. 

Blanc Mange 
About two ounces American isinglass to three pints of milk, one 
half pound of sugar, flavor to taste, boil five minutes and strain 
mto moulds; when cold serve with sugar and cream. 
Mock Cream- 
Take the yolks of three fresh eggs, small cup of sugar, beat the 
sugar and eggs well together with a teaspoon of flour, pour over it 
a pint of boding milk, new milk is best, but be sure it is sweet, 
stirring rapidly till thoroughly mixed, then place the kettle contain- 
ing it in boiling water until it thickens, but do not let it boil If 
you wish flavoring,, lemon or orange peel scalded in the milk will 
give it to you,— [Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

One, quarter pound sweet chocolate, half box gelatine, one quart 
of folk, one coffee cup sugar, boil one hour, when nearly cold 
turn into moulds.— ["Cariad." 

Charlotte Russe 

h J h h ee ^T °J Cream ' ° ne P ° Und of su * ar * the whites °f six e^gs, 
half box of gelatine, prepare as in any cream, line a dish with 

-[Mrs cTa" C ^ " kdy "^ and P ° Ur the *"»* « 
^[^y^^king Powder is guaranteed as represented. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 6 1 



Chocolate Cream Custard 

One quart of milk, one ounce of Cox's or Cooper's gelatine, 
soaked in a cup of the milk, one hour, four heaping tablespoons of 
grated chocolate, rubbed up with a little milk, three eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, three-quarters cup sugar and two tea- 
poons vanilla, heat the milk to boiling, pour in gelatine and milk 
and stir till it is dissolved, add sugar to the beaten yolks and stir 
till it is smooth, beat chocolate into this and stir in spoonful by 
spoonful of the scalding milk upon the mixture, stirring all the 
while, return to the inner saucepan and heat gently till it almost 
boils, remove from the fire aud turn into a bowl, then beat in 
lightly and quickly the beaten whites, then pour into the mould 
which must be wet in cold water and set to cool. — [Mrs. Stock- 
bridge. 

Charlotte Russe 
Mix together half pint milk, half pint cream and five eggs, well 
beaten and strained, boil but not curdle ; must be like a soft cus- 
tard, set it on the ice, boil one ounce best isinglass in half pint of 
water, till it is a thick jelly. When both are cool, but not hard, 
mix together and add four tablespoons of sugar, the juice and yel- 
low rind of two lemons and one pint of cream whipped to a froth, 
then cover the bottom and sides of an oval dish with slices of 
sponge cake, putting the white of an egg between to make them ad- 
here. Pour the custard over and put sponge cake on top using 
white of an egg to make it adhere ; make an icing and cover the 
top with it. — [Miss Dolly Ward. 

A Bird's Nest- 
Have some eggs' blown and pour blanc mange into them, when 
it is quite cold peel off the shell, then place pieces of jelly or firm 
preserve round a glass dish, lay some lemon peel cut in thin strips 
to represent straws in the center, and also on the jelly and place 
the eggs on top, put some moss or pretty green leaves round th e 
edge of the dish and you witl have a simple but pretty and fancifnl 
supper dish, is nice served with boiled custard. — [Mignon. 

Royal Baking Powder is sure. 



62 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Crystalized Fruit- 
Beat the white of an egg to a froth, dip your fruit in it, then roll 
in sifted white sugar, place in an open oven to be slowly dried, 
must remain white. 

Cocoanut and Oranges 

One dozen oranges, one cocoanut, cut the oranges in thin slices 

and grate the cocoanut, place a layer of orange in a glass dish and 

sprinkle powdered sugar over it, then a layer of cocoanut and so 

on alternate layers, having cocoanut last. — [Mrs. J. B. Morse and 

Mrs. Judge Worden. 

• 

Lemon Custard- 

One large lemon, two cups sugar, two of water, half of butter, 

one tablespoon of flour, three eggs, beaten separately and put the 

whites in last. — [Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 

Iced Apples- 
Pare, core and fill the centers of ten large tart apples with sugar, 
bake till you can run a straw through them, then put them away to 
get entirely cold, prepare an icing with the whites of four eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, with four large spoonfuls of fine white sugar 
flavored with either lemon or vanilla. When the apples are cold 
lay the icing on the tops and sides as much as you can, return to 
the oven to just harden and "set." Serve with cream. — [Mrs, 
S. B. 

Trifles- 

Take two eggs, beat the whites saparately, add three tablespoons 
of white sugar, a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, half 
cup of water, knead together until very stiff and roll thin as a 
wafer, cut to suit yourself and fry in lard, when baked sprinkle 
loaf sugar and cinnamon over them. — [Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

Nothings- 
Three well beaten eggs, salt-spoon of salt and flour enough for a 
very stiff paste, roll and cut into very thin cakes and fry like trifles, 
put two together with jam or jelly between. — [Mrs. Robt. Lowry. 

Make wheat cakes with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 63 



ICE CREAM. 



Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve with a wooden 
spoon, and four ounces powdered sugar, a pint of cream and freeze- 

Pine Apple Ice Cream. 

Pare a ripe juicy pine apple, chop it fine and pound it to extract 
the juice, cover with sugar and let it lie a while in a china bow^> 
when the sugar has entirely melted, strain the juice into a quart of 
good cream and add a little less than a pound of loaf sugar, beat 
up with the cream and freeze. 

Currant Ice Cream. 

Put one and a half large spoonfuls of currant jelly into a basin 
with half a pound of fine sugar, squeeze in one and a half lemons, 
add a pint of cream and a little bit of cochineal, pass through a 
sieve and freeze. 

Water Ices 

Are made with the juice of any fruit sweetened and mixed wit n 
water then frozen like ice cream, if made from jam you must rub it 
through a sieve adding thick boiled syrup and lemon juice, some 
coloring if wished, white of an egg beaten up before you add the 
water. If currants are used pass them through a sieve, add four 
ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of water to each pint of 
currants, strain and freeze. For orange ice take as many as wished 
cut in half, press the juice from them ; take the pulp from the rind 
and put it in a bowl, pour a little boiling water on it, stir it well 
and pass through a sieve, mix this with the orange juice and stir in 
as much sugar as will make a rich syrup. If the oranges are fine 
and some of the sugar on the peel to extract the juice. Lemons 
can be used in the same way adding the white of an egg. 

Make a pudding with Royal Baking Powder. 



64 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Chocolate Ice Cream. 

One quart cream, one pint new milk, two cups of sugar, two 
eggs beaten light, Ave tablespoons of chocolate rubbed smooth in a 
little milk, heat the milk almost to boiling and pour, by degrees, in 
with the beaten egg and sugar. — [Mrs. S. B. 

Ice Cream- 

Four quarts of milk, half box Cox's gelatine, the yolks of three 
eggs, one and a half pounds of sugar, add as much cream as you wish 
with three-quartets of a pound of sugar, to each quart, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream- 
Two quarts of milk, cream when you can get it, three tablespoons 
of arrow-root, the whites of eight eggs well beaten, one pound of 
powdered sugar, boil the milk, thicken with the arrow -root, add 
the sugar and pour the whole upon the eggs ; flavor to taste. — [Miss 
Dolly Ward. 

Ice Cream (very nice) 

One quart o( milk, half pound of sugar, three eggs well beaten, 
mix all together in a tin pail, add lemon extract, then put the pai] 
into boiling water, stir well till quite thick ; when cool add one 
pint oi' cream and freeze. — [Mrs. Col. Robertson and Mrs. D. B. 
Strope. 

Ice Cream Made of Cream- 
Allow two pounds of loaf sugar, to a gallon of cream, the flavor- 
must be strong as the freezing destroys it in part. 

Made of Milk 

Allow twenty eggs to a gallon, boil half the milk, beat up the 
eggs, turn the boding milk into them, stirring all the time, strain 
it and then add the cold milk, the sugar and flavoring, freeze. — 
[Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 65 



SWKET DISHES. 



Sand Tarts, 

One pound of flour, half pound of butter, two eggs, leave out 
the white of one, work the butter to a rream, add the sugar, flour 
and eggs, make a stiff paste, roll out very thin and cut in forms, 
• have ready some powdered sugar and cinnamon, wash the tarts 
with the beaten white of an egg, strew the powdei over them and 
lay a few blanched almonds on top. — [Mrs. John Hough, Mrs. J. 
C. Hewes and Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

Drop C5ak©9- 

One-quarter pound of butter, one of white sugar, rub to a cream, 
add the yolk of one egg, and the whites of four beaten to a froth, 
one teaspoon essence of bitter almonds, as much flour as will thick- 
en ihe dough, drop on tins the size of a small cracker. — [Mrs. J's 
mother. 

Almond fTkeese Cakes- 
Take half pound of sweet almonds, blanch and put them in cold 
water; drain off the water and beat them in a mortar fine and 
quickly, and drop in a few drops of rose water or the white of an 
egg to prevent oiling, put this in a bowl then add half pound of 
powdered sugar and yolks of eight eggs and rind of one lemon 
grated. Beat the whole mixture together until it becomes white 
and frothy, butter small tins, cover with "puff paste," (pound to 
pound) fill them, grate sugar over them and bake in a gentle oven # 
Part cocoanut improves it. — [Mrs. Henry Little. 

Spingerline- 

One pound of sugar, five eggs, beat the yolks and whites separ- 
ately until frothy, add sugar, then the grated rind of two lemons, 
stir it in when the batter is light with half teaspoon of saleratus, 
add flour enough to make a stiff dough and cut in the form of a 
star, let them stand a while before putting in the oven. — [Mrs. 
Fred Joslin. 



66 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Cocoanut Drops- 

Half pound grated cocoanut, one teacup sugar, whites of three 

eggs, well beaten, bake on buttered white paper. — [Mrs. Sol. D. 

Bash. 

Molasses Candy- 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, teaspoon of vinegar, piece 

of butter the size of a nutmeg, boil hard stirring all the time ; try it 

by dipping a little in cold water just before taking off, add about 

one-quarter teaspoon of soda. Pull, if wished, or put in nut 

meats. — [Laura K. 

White Sugar Candy 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters cup of water, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one tablespoon vinegar, flavor with vanilla, boil with- 
out stirring, about twenty minutes, cool quickly and pull till white- 

— [Mrs. Hattie Chapman 

Nnt Cakes- 

One pint of chopped hickory nuts, one pound of sugar, whites 
of two eggs, two tablespoons of flour. Drop on greased paper on 
tins size of macaroni. — [Mrs. Fred Joslin. 

Chocolate Caramels- 

One cup each of molasses, sugar and milk, one and a half cakes 
of chocolate, piece of butter the size of an egg, boil until stiff and 
pour on buttered tins. — [Mrs. Nettie Lord. 

Chocolate Caramels- 
One cup molasses, one-half of sugar, one-third of milk, two and a 
half squares of chocolate, piece of butter half the size of an egg . 
grate the chocolate fine and boil until stiff, pour into buttered pan s 
to cool, before^cold mark off in little squares. — [Mrs. Will Dyer. 

Caramels- 
Two cups of sugar, one of molasses, small piece of butter, half 
cup milk, flavor with vanilla, stir constantly, pour out thin in a pan 

when done. — ["Cariad." 

Kisses- 
Beat the whites of nine fresh eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with 
it fifteen spoonfuls of finest white sugar and five or six drops of 
essence of lemon, drop them on paper with a teaspoon, sift sugar 
over them, and bake in a slow oven. — [Mrs. D. B. Strope. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 67 



Ice Cream Candy. 

One coffee cup of white sugar, half cup water, one tablespoon of 
vinegar, two-thirds teaspoon cream tartar, put all in a pan together 
and boil twenty-five minutes without stirring, flavor with vanilla, 
when almost cold pull it by the stove and it will be white. — [Miss 
Kitty Little. 

Macaroni 

Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, dry them well and then 
pound them very fine with a rolling pin, add the whites of three 
eggs, beaten light, one pound of pulverized sugar sifted through a 
hair sieve, mix well for ten minutes, then have a piece of buttered 
white paper over the bottom of your baking pan, drop the mixture 
on it in little cakes and dredge a little sugar on the top. — [Mignon. 

Batch el or's Buttons 

One egg, two ounces butter, five ounces of sugar ; make into 
small balls, roll in sifted sugar and bake on buttered tins, allowing 
rooms to spread. 

Old Maid's Pincushions- 
Six eggs, their weight in flour, and sugar also, beat well together 
and drop on greased paper; bake in a slow oven. 
Butter Scotch. 
Three cups white sugar, dissolved in one-half cup sweet milk, add 
half cup vinegar, piece of butter half as large as an egg ; boil slowly 
until it seems brittle when dropped in cold water; pour on buttered 
plates. — [Miss Nellie Fairbank. 

Butter Scotch' 
One cup of molasses, one of brown sugar, one-half of butter, 
flavor to taste. — [Miss Helie Miller. 



68 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Eggs, 



Brown sugar, powdered, i pound 

White 

Loaf sugar, broken, 

Butter, when soft, 

Indian Meal. . i lb and 2 oz. 

Wheat Flour, • • • 



10 eggs are equal to 1 pound. 



CAKES 



1 quart. 



Sugar, •■."*..■ 


2 x /i teacups 


LIQUIDS 




4 large tablespoons are equal to 
8 .... 

16 

A common sized wine glass holds 
tumbler 
1 quart of liquid 


y% gin. 
1 gin. 

y 2 pint. 

Y* gill. 
y, pint. 
4 teacups. 



Before baking get the materials wished together, have the flour 
sifted, sugar rolled, eggs beaten, etc., so that they will be ready, 
mix well together, a wooden spoon is the best. In winter 
soften but not melt the butter. Cake not raised with yeast 
should be baked as soon as made. Let the heat of the oven be a 
regular moderate one. Never add fruit till ready to bake and in 
raised cake spread it on the top only a little below the surface, or 
it will settle at the bottom. Cakes that require long baking should 
have buttered white or brown paper on the sides and bottom of 
the pan ; to ascertain when done, insert a clean, stiff straw in the 
thickest part of the loaf, if it does not stick to it it is done. To 
test it still further see if it "sings," a little hissing sound which 
you will hear if you apply your ear closely to the cake. If not you 
can with safety take it out. Nevei move a cake if possible, while 
baking as it is likely to make it fall. If likely to brown too much 
put a paper on the top. The mixing and baking has often times as 
much to do with success as the recipe. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 69 



ICINGS FOR CAKE. 



Orange Icing. 

Half pound of pulverized sugar, the juice of two oranges and 
one lemon. 

Cucoanut Icing- 

To one grated nut add one cup of fine sugar and whites of four 
eggs. 

White Frosting- 

To each white of an egg take nine teaspoons of pulverized sugar 
and beat all together forty-five minutes, add flavoring to taste and 
apply as soon as the cake is taken from the oven. — [Mrs. Matoon. 

Almond Icing- 
Beat up the whites of six eggs light, pound two pounds of 
blanched almonds with a little rose water or the white of an egg;. 
Mix the almonds and eggs lightly together, then add by degrees 
two pounds of loaf sugar pounded, lay upon the cake and put in 
the oven to brown. This will ice a large cake. — [Mrs. S. B. 

Icing for Chocolate Cake- 
Take three cups of white sugar, pour on it just water enough to 
moisten it, let it boil till perfectly clear, beat the whites of three 
eggs, very light, and add to it three sticks of grated chocolate, then 
pour on it the boiling sugar and beat until cold. It is much im- 
proved by adding two lumps of citric acid, dissolved in a teaspoon 
of water and mixed with the sugar. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Good Icing for Cake 

To the whites of five eggs take one pound of pulverized white 
sugar and stir all the while the cake is baking, put it on as soon a s 
the cake comes out of the oven. — [Mrs. C. K. Smith and Mrs. O. 
B. Laurence. 

Chocolate Icing for White Cake 

Two ounces grated chocolate, one of brown sugar, three tea- 
spoons sweet milk, one teaspoon prepared gum arabic, boil briskly 
for ten minutes. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

9 



yo HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Cocoanut Icing- 
One and a half cups white sugar, one tablespoon of corn starch, 
dissolved in a little water, whites of two eggs without beating, eight 
tablespoons grated cocoanut, boil in a vessel, over water, and cool 
before using. — [Mrs. Hankins and Mrs. Mattie Little. 

To Blanch Almonds- 

Pour boiling water on them, then slip their "coats" off, throw 
them in cold water to prevent turning yellow. When pounded 
moisten with the whites of an egg to prevent oiling, or rose or 
orange flower water. 



Black Cake- 
Yolks of eight eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one of 
milk, two pounds of raisins, two of currants, one and a half of 
citron, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, one 
nutmeg, two teaspoons baking powder, three and a half cups of 
browned flour if you wish the cake very dark. — [Mrs. Mattie H. 

Little. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three pounds currants, two of raisins, six ounces citron, one and 
a quarter pounds of brown sugar, one of butter, one and a quarter 
of flour, eight eggs, one gill of brandy, four tablespoons of cinna- 
mon, two nutmegs, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in one-quarter teacup of water. Beat butter and sugar to a 
cream, next add the eggs well beaten, then the brandy, next the 
flour, spices and fruit and soda, fruit last. The raisins must be 
seeded, currants well washed, and dried citron, cut fine, sift flour 
on the fruit. — -[Mrs. Sarah Hurt and Miss Lucretia Munson. 

Fruit Cake • 

Two pounds each of raisins, currants, flour and butter, one 
pound each of citron and brown sugar, twelve eggs, cloves, cinna- 
mon and mace to taste, two large glasses of wine and brandy ; 
wash the currants and dry them, cut the raisins, dredge the fruit 
with flour to prevent sinking, stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
beat the eggs very light, then add fruit, bake four hours, put in a 
large gravy spoonful of cream tartar and soda, one cup of molasses, 
add one-half of flour browned, add dates, figs and almonds. — [Mrs. 
Robt. Lowry. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 71 



Fruit Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, three-quarters of a poumd of butter, half 
of sugar, one pint of molasses, one teaspoon of each kind of spice, 
half pound of almonds, one-quarter pound of orange peel, one 
pound of raisins, eight eggs, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one of soda ; makes two loaves. — [Mrs. David Bur- 
gess. 

Fruit Cake- 
Two and a half pounds of butter, two and three-quarters of 
sugar, two and a half of flour, five of seeded raisins, three of Zante 
currants, one and one-quarter of citron, eighteen eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, three and a half wineglasses of wine, same 
of brandy, three and a half grated nutmegs, two and a half tea- 
spoons of mace, same of cinnamon, one of soda. — [Mrs. John 

Hough. 

Fruit Cake (splendid)- 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one of sugar, one of raisins. 

one of currants, one-half of citron, one-half of figs, six eggs, one 

teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, three-fourths of a 

cup of milk, one cup of coffee, half of a nutmeg, flour to stiffen. 

— [Mrs. Horatio Mills. 

Fruit Cake. 

Five eggs, three cups of brown sugar, one of molasses, one and 

a half of butter, five of sifted flour, one of sour milk, one teaspoon 

of soda, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, two 

pounds of seeded raisins, one of currants, one of blanched almonds, 

one-half of citron, one wine glass of brandy, or flavor with extract 

of vanilla. This makes two large loaves ; bake slowly two hours. 

— [Mrs. Pool. 

Fruit Cake- 

One pound of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, three of cur- 
rants, three of raisins, one of citron, eight eggs, one pint of brandy, 
one ounce of mace, half ounce each of cloves, cinnamon,- and nut- 
meg, to taste. — [Mrs. Wm. B. Douglass. 

Fruit Cake. 

Two cups of butter, two of brown sugar, two of molasses, one of 
sour cream, eight of flour, six eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two 
pounds of raisins, two of currants, half pound of citron, two nut- 
megs, spices and one wineglass of brandy. — [Abbie Wallace. 



72 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Fruit Cup Cake- 
One cup butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, three of flour, 
four eggs, half pound of currants, half pound of raisins, one-quarter 
pound of citron, one-quarter teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of all 
kinds of spices will keep a year, little brandy. — [Mrs. Morgan thaler. 

Fruit Cake. 
Two pounds of flour, one of brown sugar, three-quarters of but- 
ter, one cup molasses, three eges, one pint of warm sweet milk, 
two teaspoons soda, all kinds of spices, one pound of raisins, on e 
and a half of currants, one-half of citron, rub the flour, butter and 
sugar together, add the eggs well beaten, then the molasses, then 
the fruit, spice and flour and last of all the soda, flour the currants, 
bake in a moderate oven, two and a half hours, three if made in a 
very large loaf, brandy and wine improve the cake if cost and con- 
science admit of it. — [Mrs. Henry Little and Mrs. Hattie Chap- 
man. 

Fruit Cake. 
Three cups sugar, two of butter, one-half of molasses, four and 
a half of flour, five eggs, three pounds raisins, one and a half of 
currants, half pound of citron, one teaspoon baking powder, one 
glass brandy, spices. — [Miss Emma Hardy. 

Spice Cake- 
One and a half cups of sugar, one-half of molasses, one-half of 
butter, more if you wish it richer, one of sour milk, one and a half 
of chopped raisins, four of flour, three eggs, one teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in the milk, half teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg and 
cinnamon is very nice. — [Sadie Kimball. 

Cold Water Cake 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of butter, one- half molasses, one 
of cold water, one of raisins, four of flour, two eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder, two teaspoons each of clove and cinnamon, half a 
nutmeg. — [Miss Kitty Little and Miss Emma Hardy. 
Currant Composition Cakes- 

Two cups of butter, three of sugar, five of flour, one of milk, 
five eggs, one pound of currants, two teaspoons baking powder ; 
bake in gem pans or muffin-rings. — [Mrs. Mattie Little and Mrs. 
Netty Lord. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 73 

Pork Cake- 
One pound of fresh fat pork chopped fine, one pint of boiling 
water, one pint of molasses, two cups of brown sugar, one pound 
of raisins, one of currants, one-half of shelled almonds, blanched 
and chopped, one teaspoon each of all spices, one nutmeg, one 
heaping tablespoonful of saleratus, glass of brandy, flour enough to 
make it stiff. — [Mrs. James Cairns. 

Chocolate Cake 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of water, three of flour, 
four eggs, one and a half teaspoons Royal Baking Powder; after 
mixing these ingredients together, take half the dough and grate 
half a cake of German chocolate in it, then put first one spoonful 
of the light, then the dark, and so on, until all is used up. — [Mrs. 
Ella Morgan thaler and Mrs. E. M. Kimball. 

Chocolate Cake- 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, yolks of five eggs, whites of 
two, one cup of milk, three and a half of flour, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, bake in jelly tins, place between the layers the fol- 
lowing mixture : whites of three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, 
three tablespoons grated chocolate, one teaspoon vanilla, beat well 
together. — [Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

Chocolate Cake- 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, two of 
flour, one of corn starch, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, two of cream 
tartar, one of vanilla, bake in jelly pans, and place between the 
following mixture : one-quarter cup grated chocolate, eight table- 
spoons of pulverized sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, beaten whites of 
three eggs ; spread as soon as baked. — [Mrs. Will Dyer and Mrs. 
Addie Howard. 

Cocoa. mi t Cake- 
Two cups of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of sweet milk, 
two and a halt of flour, whites of four eggs, one and a half tea- 
spoons Royal Baking Powder ; bake in tins the same as jelly cake, 
with an icing made of the whites of three eggs, sugar enough to 
make it stiff, and cocoanut sprinkled on top of the frosting, between 
each layer. — [Mrs. Clarkson. 



74 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Cocoanut Cake* 

Whites of nine e^gs, two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, two and a half of flour, three spoons of Baking Powder, one 
large eoccanut grated very fine ; bake as jelly cake and place be- 
tween the following mixture, one cup of sugar and well beaten 
whites of four eggs. — [Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

Cocoaiiut Cake (very nice) 
One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound of 
flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of cream tartar, 
one of soda, grate two large cocoanuts, put half in the cake the 
last thing with the whites of twelve eggs, bake in one large cake, 
make your icing, put the rest of the cocoanut in it, and ice as you 
would any cake. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Cocoanut Cake- 
Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, half of a large cocoanut or two small ones, grated 
and put in the last thing. Make an icing with the other half, the 
whites of three eggs and half cup of sugar, cover the cake as soon 
as taken from the oven ; can be baked in one large cake or in gem 
pans or muffin rings. — [Mrs. Mollie Kimball and Mrs. Addie 

Howard. 

Cocoanut Cake- 
Two cups of sugar, half cup of butter, one of milk, three of 
flour, three eggs, three teaspoons baking powder; bake as jelly cake, 
place between the layers the following mixture : haif of a grated 
cocoanut, whites of three eggs and one cup of sugar ; mix with the 
rest of the cocoanut four tablespoons of sugar and strew thickly on 
top. — [Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

Ckocolate Squares- 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of water, two and a half 
of flour, one and a half teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder; bake 
in two layers in a biscuit pan, place between them the following 
mixture cut in squares : 

Icing — Dissolve one sheet of isinglass in one cup of boiling water, 
mix with it one cake of grated chocolate, one cup of pulverized 
sugar to the consistency of cream. For the top, mix the remainder 
of the icing with one cup of sugar flavored with lemon, spread 
thin. — [Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 75 



Almond Cake 

Two cups of sugar, three-quarters of butter, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, one of corn-starch, whites of six eggs, one teaspoon 
of baking powder, bake as jelly cake with the following cream be- 
tween : three eggs beaten separately, one cup sugar, one pint of 
sour cream, one pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, little 
vanilla ; beat the yolks and sugar together gradually, stir in the 
cream, then the almonds, then the whites, well beaten. — [Miss Mag- 
gie Angell. 

Almond Cake 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, two of blanched 
almonds, three of raisins, three-quarters of citron, ten eggs. — [Mrs. 
W. H. Withers. 

Almond Cake- 
Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a froth with one pound of white 
sugar, beat the whites of nine eggs and stir into the yolks and sugar, 
add gradually one pound of flour and a half pound of blanched 
almonds, pounded, and three tablespoons of thick cream. — [Mrs. 

Jesse Williams. 

Almond Cream Cake- 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of sweet 
milk, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two teaspoons 
of cream tartar and one of soda, bake like jelly cake and spread 
between the layers the following mixture : three eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, add to the yolks one cup of sugar, half 
pound of blanched almonds, rolled fine, one cup of sour cream, 
then the whites well beaten and sweeten to taste. — [Mrs. Sol. D. 
Bash and Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

Almond Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of pulverized sugar, one-half of milk, 
two of flour, one of corn starch, whites of eight eggs, one tea 
spoon of soda, two of cream tartar, two of essence of almonds. — 

[Mrs. Keil. 

Orange Cake- 
One cup of sugar, three large teaspoons melted butter, four large 
spoons of sweet milk, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, four eggs, leaving out the white of one for frosting ; bake 
in layers and place between frosting, made of the juice of one 
orange and part of the rind grated, powdered sugar and white of 
one egg. — [Mrs. Beals. 



76 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Orange Cake- 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, five 
eggs, one and a half teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder, taking 
the juice of three oranges, mix with white sugar to the consistency 
of cream; bake in layers and spread with the paste. — [Mrs. Ella 

Morganthaler. 

Lemon Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one-half of butter, one of milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder ; bake in layers and place between frosting 
made of grated rind and juice of two lemons, one coffee-cup of 
sugar ; let this come to a boil, then stir in the well-beaten whites of 
four eggs. — [Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

Apple Cake- 
One cup sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, four eggs, one cup 
of flour, half teaspoon baking powder — or, half cup each of sugar, 
butter and milk, two cups of flour, one egg, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, half of soda, bake as jelly cake, and place between a jelly 
made of four large apples grated, one egg, one cup of sugar, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, let it come to a boil, and when cool 
spread between the cakes. — [Mrs. jethro Mitchell and Mrs. K. P. 
Smith. 

Custard Cream Cake- 

Two cups of sugar, six teaspoons melted butter, half cup of milk 
or cold water, one teaspoon cream tartar, half of soda, two and a 
half cups of flour and six eggs — or, two cups of powdered sugar, 
two-thirds of butter, one-half of milk, three of flour, four eggs and 
two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder in the flour : bake in jelly 
cake pans, and when cool place between the following custard : heat 
half pint of milk to boiling and stir in two small teaspoons of corn 
starch, wet with a little cold milk, take out a little and mix grad- 
ually with the beaten egg and sugar, return to the rest of the custard, 
stirring constantly till quite thick ; when cool flavor and spread on 
the cakes. — [Mrs. W. S. Buck and Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Buffalo Cream Cake 

One cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, one egg, one and a 
half cups of flour, three-quarters cup of milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder, cream to place between, one cup boiling milk, one egg, 
two teaspoons corn starch, one of sugar, one of flour, flavor to 
taste. — [Mrs. . 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 77 



Cream Sponge Cake- 
Three eggs, one teacup sugar, two tablespoons of cold water, one 
and a half cups of flour, one teaspoon of Royal Baking Powder ; 
bake as jelly cake with the following cream : boil one pint of milk, 
stir in a large tablespoon of corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk, two eggs, one cup of sugar and a large spoonful of butter. 
Make the cream first, that it may cool while the cake is baking. 
Grated cocoanut put in the cream improves it greatly. — [Miss Dolly 
Ward and Miss Mollie Kimball. 

Cream Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one and a half of flour, three eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, one teaspoon cream tartar, half of soda, 
two tablespoons sweet milk ; when the cake is done, cut the top off 
very carefully, take some ol the inside out and pour in the follow- 
ing custard : half pint of milk, yolks of three eggs, half cup of sugar, 
flavor to taste; mix all together and boil in hot water until it 
thickens, then put the top on again, and let it cool before sending 
to the table ; must be eaten fresh. — [Mrs. Wm B. Douglass.. 

"White Cake- 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one-half of butter, whites of 
sixteen eggs, one and a half teaspoons of cream tartar, one-half 
of soda, rub the butter and sugar together, then put the whites of 
eggs into it, sift the flour three times, with the cream tartar and 
soda in it, added last. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Bride's Cake (Splendid) 

Half cup of butter, two of white sugar, whites of five eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, one cup of cold water, mix well together, then add 
three cups of flour, two teaspoons of cream tartar sifted in the flour, 
one teaspoon soda, flavored with almond. — [Mrs. Pool. 

"White Cake- 
Whites of eight eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one of 
sweet milk, three of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder and 
one of rose or peach essence. For "Gold Cake," take the yolks, 
same quantities of everything else, and flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
— [Mrs. Eliza Hartman and Mrs. K. P. Smith. 



78 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Delicate Cake- 
One and a half cups of sugar, half of butter, two of flour, one- 
half of milk, whites of four eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half soda. — [Mrs. J. Hallsworth and Mrs. H. Mills. 

Delicate Cake- 
One pound of sugar, one of flour, half of butter, two of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, whites of ten eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one of soda. — [Mrs. Chas. McCulloch and Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

Stollen (a German Cake) 

One quart of sponge, one of milk, one pound of butter, one of 
sugar, one of raisins, one-quarter of citron, two ounces of sweet 
almonds, one of bitter almonds, six eggs, one lemon, grated, blanch 
and chop the almonds, stir all together, flour enough to make not 
quite so stiff as bread ; make into loaves, let it rise, and when light 
bake slowly one hour. — [Mrs. Schmetzer. 

Stollen. 

One pint of milk warmed, one pound of butter, five spoons of 
yeast, half-pound of raisins, one-half of currants, one-quarter of 
a pound of sugar, a little mace and flour enough to keep it from 
sticking, warm the flour and put the warmed milk in the center 
of it, then stir in the yeast, then the butter, into which the other 
ingredients have been worked, set it in a warm place to rise, then 
cut ridges in the top and spread some melted butter and a quarter 
of a pound of coarsely-rolled almonds, which have been blanched, 
over it, bake slowly, when done spread it again with butter and sift 
sugar and cinnamon over the top. — [Mrs. Carrie Douglass. 

White Pound Cake- 
One pound of sugar, one-half of flour, one-half of corii starch, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of nineteen eggs, rose-water, brandy and lemon. This is a 
superior cake. — [Mrs. John Gilbert. 

White Cake. 
Two and a half cups of flour, two of sugar, one-half butter, three- 
quarters of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, whites of 
six eggs, beat sugar and butter together, then add milk, flour and 
baking powder, last the whites of the eggs. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 79 

Lemon Cake- 
One cup of butter, three of pounded loaf sugar, four of flour, 
one of sweet milk, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one teaspoon of soda dissolved in the milk, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon. Is much improved by icing. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Queen Cake (very nice) 

One cup of bntter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, six 
eggs, three teaspoons Royal Baking Powder or two of cream tartar 
and one of soda, flavor to taste. — [Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 
French Loaf Cake. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one-half of cream, four of 
brandy, (fruit if you like) three spoons Royal Baking Powder, or 
cream tartar and soda. — [Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

Berwick Sponge Cake- 
Beat six eggs together two minutes, add three cups of sugar and 
beat five minutes, add two cups of flour, with two teaspoons of 
cream tartar sifted in, and beat two minutes, then add one cup of 
cold water with one teaspoon saleratus dissolved in it and beat one 
minute, grated rind of one lemon and one-half of the juice, a little 
salt and two cups more flour, then beat one minute, (observe the 
time exactly), bake in rather deep pans. — [Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

Mountain Cake- 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of sweet 
milk, one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, whites of eight 
eggs ; bake as jelly cake and place between the following mixture : 
Two cups of white sugar, boil to a thick syrup, putting in water 
enough to keep from burning, pour this boiling hot over the whites 
of two well beaten eggs and stir till cold, add one-third teaspoon 
of citric -acid and flavor to taste. Another icing : Use isinglass 
instead of eggs — as much as will dissolve in one-half teacup of warm 
water ; beat sugar into a stiff froth ; it adds to the appearance of it; 
can be baked in layers of different sizes, decreasing in size as it is 
"built" up, ice it on top. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 

Pound Cake- 
One pound of sugar, one of butter, one of flour, ten eggs, one- 
half tumbler of rose water. — [Mrs. Nellie Matoon and Mrs. Brown. 



8o HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Quaker Pound Cake excellent 1 

One cup of white sugar, one of butter, two and one-half of flour; 
one-haif of sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, one of cloves, 
one of cinnamon, one-half cup chopped raisins. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin 
ane Mrs. Will Joslin. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, the whites beaten to a froth in the bowl in which 
the cake is made, the yolks beaten in the bowl with one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one-half pound of flour with a teaspoon of cream 
tartar sifted after the latter is put in, one pound of sugar stirred 
into the whites, then the yolks, afterward the flour ; flavor with 
essence of lemon, — [Mrs. John Hough. 

None So Good* 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, one-half of butter, six eggs, 

one teaspoon soda, one cup of cream, one nutmeg. [Mrs. John 

Hough. 

'White Sponge Cake- 
One and one-half tumblers of pulverized sugar, one of flour, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, whites of ten eggs, beat the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add the sugar, sift the flour and cream tartar together and 
stir in as gently as possible ; flavor to taste ; never move it in the 
oven. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank, Mrs. C. M. Dawson, Helie Miller and 
Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 
Stir a cup of white sugar into the beaten yolks of two eggs, add 
half cup of sweet cream and Graham or white flour, with a tea- 
spoon of baking powder, enough to make a thin batter. Have 
your pans hot, and the last thing add the whites well beaten; stir 
together quickly and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. Will Stock- 
bridge. 

Sponge Cake (nice)- 
One and a half cups of sugar, three eggs, whites and yolks, 
beaten separately; half cup of water, two of flour, one and one- 
half teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder ; roll the sugar ; add the 
whites well beaten, then the yolks, then the water, then flour with 
baking powder sifted in. Flavor with lemon. — [Miss Mollie Kim- 
ball. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. Si 



Sponge Cake- 
Six eggs, one pint of pulverized sugar, one of Hour, half a tea- 
spoon of salt, half a teacup of water, one teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, one grated lemon. Bake one hour in a slow oven. — [Mrs. 
Keil. 

Sponge Roll. 

Two cups of sugar, one-fourth of milk, two of flour, six eggs, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, half of soda. Will make three rolls, baked 
in long tins. For the frosting, take the whites of three eggs, one 
and a half cups of pulverized sugar, spread on the bottom of the 
cake and roll up quickly. — [Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Roll Jelly Cake 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, half of sweet milk, one good cup of 
flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth of soda. Makes two 
rolls. — [Mrs. Hattie Woodward. 

Warm Jelly Cake- 
One cup of sugar, one of sweet milk, one egg, half teaspoon of 
butter, same of lard, one pint of Hour and two teaspoons of baking 
powder sifted together. Bake in tins and spread while hot. — [Mrs. 
Eliza Hartman. 

Gold Cake. 

Yolks of ten eggs, two cups of brown sugar, one of butter, one 
of sweet milk, three and a half of flour, three teaspoons of baking 
powder, flavor to taste, beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
eggs, beaten very light, next the milk; then flour and flavoring, 
baking powder last. Silver cake, same quantities, using the whites 
of the eggs and white sugar. — [Mrs. Sarah Hurtt and Miss Lucre- 
tia Munson. 

Boston Cream Cake- 
Boil together one pint of water and one-half pound of butter; 
while boiling stir in three-fourths of a pound of flour. When cool 
add ten eggs and half a teaspoon of soda ; drop in pans in small 
pieces and when baked cut open and put in cream. For the cream 
boil one pint of milk, two cups of sugar, one cup of flour, four 
eggs ; flavor to taste. — [Mrs. Rowland. 



.S2 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Boston Cream Cakes- 
One pint of boiling water, one cup of butter, one cup of flour, 
add the butter to the boiling water, and then, while boiling, stir in 
the flour quickly and thoroughly; while cooling beat up six eggs, 
whites and yolks separately ; when the flour and butter are cool, 
mix in one-fourth teaspoon of soda , add the yolks, the whites, 
beaten very light. Drop on pans, a tablespoonful at a time, not 
very close together. Be sure they are fully done before you take 
them out, or they will fall. Before putting them in the oven wash 
the top with the white of an egg. For cream, take one pint of 
milk, three eggs, one cup of sugar, half cup of flour ; boil the milk, 
beat the eggs, stir in the flour and sugar, then stir this into the boil- 
ing milk and let it just thicken. Flavor with lemon when cold. 
Just before you wish to place them on the table cut one side of the 
cake open and fill with cream.— [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Scotch Cake. 

Stir to a cream one pound of sugar, three-fourths of butter, add 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one wine glass of brandy, 
separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs, beat them to a froth and 
stir them in. add one pound of sifted flour and just before putting 
in the cake pans add one pound of seedless raisins. — [Mrs. C. 
Douglas. 

Corn Starch Cake- 
Beat to a thick cream one cup of butter, two of sugar, mix one 
cup of corn starch with one of milk or water and add to the butter 
and sugar, then add two cups of flour and the whites of four eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, two teaspoons of baking powder, flavor the 
icing with rose. — [Mrs. A. C. Keel, and Mrs. Clara C : . 

Corn Starch Cake- 
One cup pulverized sugar, half cup of butter, stir until it looks 
like thick cream, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in half teacup of 
sweet milk, beat the whites of three eggs and put them in with two 
teaspoons of cream tartar mixed with a teacup of flour, stir and add 
half a teacup of corn starch, flavor and bake in a moderate oven. 
Frost or not, just as you please. — [Mrs. B. W. Chapman. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 83 

Lemon Cake- 
Five cups of flour, white and clean, 
One cup of butter, nothing mean, 
Six new-laid eggs, well beaten up, 
Enough of milk to fill one cup, 
One lemon, large, or two, if small ; 
Sugar, three cups, to sweeten all, 
A teaspoon ful of soda add — 
Rich lemon cake will then be had. 
Bake it in pans to please the eye, 
Or round, or oblong, should you try, 
Of one thing note, without surprise: 
The more you make the less the size, 

—[Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 

Corn Starch Cake- 
One cup of butter, two of white sugar, two-thirds of sweet milk, 
one of corn starch, two of flour, yolks of six eggs, two teaspoons 
of cream tartar, one of soda, last of all the whites of the eggs : 
flavor with lemon. — [Mrs. . 

Citron Tumbler Cake- 
Three tumblers of white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, 
five of flour, one of citron, four eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two of 
cream tartar ; flavor with lemon extract. — [" Cariad." 

Coffee Cake- 
One cup of coffee, one of molasses, two of sugar, one of butter, 
five of flour, three eggs, one teaspoon of soda, fruit and spice to 
the taste. — [Mrs. John Gilbert and Mrs. Keil. 

Coffee Cake- 
One cup of butter, one of fresh made coffee, two of brown sugar, 
three of flour, one of currants, one of raisins, six eggs, two tea- 
spoons each of cinnamon and cloves, one of soda. — [Mrs. Ella 

Morganthaler. 

Coffee Cake. 

One-half cup each of molasses, brown sugar, butter, coffee, two 
and a half of flour, one egg, one teaspoon saleratus ; spices to taste 
and fruit. — [Mrs. K. P. Smith. 



You can always rely on Royal Baking Powder. 



84 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



La<ly Fingers- 
Four eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, if 
made into paste for fingers, add just enough flour to bring it into a 
roll the size of the finger, it will spread in the oven to a thin cake. 
Flavor with lemon. They are nice dipped in chocolate icing. — 
[Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 

Water melon Cake- 
Whites of eight eggs, two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
sweet milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one 
of soda; in one-third of the batter put two cents worth of cochi- 
neal, a lump of alum the size of a pea, dissolved in water, flavor 
with lemon. Put in the cake pan as you would marble cake. — 
[Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 

Watermelon Cake- 
White part: two cups of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half of sour milk, whites of eight eggs, three cups of flour, one 
teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar. Red part : one-half pound 
red sugar, half cup of butter, half cup sweet milk, whites of six 
e< r us, two cups of flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda, put 
half the white part in the pan, then the red, with a few currants 
sprinkled in to have the appearance of seeds, then place the re- 
maining white part on top. — [Mrs. Judge Worden. 

Leopard Cake- 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, to the whites add 
one and a half cups white sugar, one of butter, half of sour milk, 
two of flour, half a teaspoon of soda, to the yolks add the same 
quantities, using brown sugar instead of white, flavor to taste, drop 
in cake pans, spoonful of each alternately. — Mrs. W. B. Douglass. 

Bread Cake. 

Three cups' of light dough, taken out after kneading thoroughly, 
three of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, small teaspoon of soda, 
one cup of raisins (more if you can afford it), spices to taste, more 
flour if necessary to make it the consistency of pound cake, let it 
stand a little while to rise, then put raisins in the top and press 
them in a little. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge and Mrs. W. H. Howard. 



Make a pudding with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 85 



Bread Cake. 

Two pounds of dough, three-quarters of sugar, one-half of butter, 
three eggs, half teaspoon of soda, three-quarters of a nutmeg. Im- 
proved by two tablespoons of brandy. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Marble Cake- 

To the whites of five eggs add one and a half of white sugar, half 
of butter, half of sweet milk, two and a half of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Same quantities for dark part, using brown 
sugar and spices. — [Mrs. Rodabaugh. 

Hickory Nut Cake 

Four cups of flour, one of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda, half pound of raisins, half 
pound of hickory-nut kernels, the whites of eight eggs, nutmeg. — 
[Mrs. W. H. Withers. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

One cup of butter, two and a half of sugar, three and a half of 
flour, one of sweet milk, four eggs, one pint of hickory-nut meats, 
one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, small piece of citron, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar. — [Miss Maggie Angell. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Three cups of flour, two of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half of 
milk, one-half teaspoon of soda and cream tartar, two eggs, one 
pint of hickory-nut meats. — [Mrs. Netty Lord. 
French Cake (very nice-) 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one of sweet milk, three 
of flour, three or four eggs as you happen to want to use, one tea- 
spoon soda, two of cream tartar, or two teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder. This is nice plain or with fruit in it, can be used for any 
cream or roll jelly cake, and is a very accommodating recipe. A 
nice chocolate cake can be made from it by taking one-third of the 
dough and mixing grated chocolate in it and putting it in like 
marble cake — or taking half the dough, putting chocolate in it and 
baking so that you can have alternate layers for a jelly cake of the 
chocolate and white with cocoanut icing between. — [Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball and Mrs. Martha Bieber. 



Make wheat cakes with Royal Baking Powder. 
11 



86 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Cider Cake- 

Two pints of flour, one of sugar, half of molasses, half of cider, 
one cup of butter, three eggs, half a teaspoon of soda, raisins and 
spices. — [Mrs. W. B. Douglass. 

French Loaf Cake (very nice-) 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one and a half of butter, one of 
sweet milk, three eggs, five cups of flour, one-half teaspoon of soda, 
half pound of raisins, one-quarter pound of citron, mace to taste. — 
[Miss Emma Hardy. 

Picnic Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar, two eggs and the white of a third, one 
cup of butter, one of sweet milk, two of flour, one of corn starch, 
half teaspoon of soda, one of cream tartar. — [Mrs. Etta Joslin. 

Jersey Cake- 
One cup sugar, one-half of butter, two of flour, half of milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoon baking powder or two of cream tartar and one 
of soda.— [Mrs- F. H. Hall and Mrs. James Hamilton. 

'Washington Pie- 
One cup sugar, one-half of butter, half of milk, two of flour, four 
eggs, bake in two layers and spread with jelly. — [Mrs. Ella Mor- 

ganthaler. 

Two Egg Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half of butter, one of milk, three of flour, 
two eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder, flavoring to taste. — [Miss 

Kittie Little. 

One Egg Cake- 
One egg, one and a half cups of sugar, one of sweet milk, three 
of flour, two tablespoons of butter and three teaspoons of baking 
powder. You can put a cup of raisins in this, making a very eata- 
ble cake' — or omit the raisins, and instead of three cups of flour, use 
one of corn starch and two of flour for a white cake. — [Mrs. Will 

Stockbridge. 

Cream Cake- 
One cup of sugar, three-quarters of milk, one and a half of flour, 
one egg, one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- 
der. — [Mrs. D. B. Strope and Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

Royal Baking Pinvder is sure. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 87 



Sally Lunn. 

Seven cups of flour, one-half teacup of butter warmed in a pint 
of milk, a little salt, three well-beaten eggs, one-half cup of sugar, 
if wished, two tablespoons of brewer's yeast (if home made use 
twice as much), pour into pans to rise, and bake before it sours. — 
[Mrs. Jesse Williams, Mrs. Mattie H. Little, Mrs. Hankins. 

Molasses Gingerbread. 

One cup of molasses, one of warm water, one-half cup of short- 
ening, one half teaspoon of soda, three cups of flour, and spice to 
taste. Is a nice common gingerbread- — [Mrs. John Gilbert, 

Gingerbread. 

One pint of molasses, two eggs, one-half teacup of butter, two 
teaspoons ginger, three of baking powder, one cup of water, and 
flour enough to stiffen. — [Mrs. Barnes. 

Gingerbread, 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of shortening, one-half cup 
of boiling water poured on a piece of alum size of a nutmeg, one 
teaspoon ginger, one large teaspoon soda, and flour to stiffen. — 
[Mrs. T. P. Anderson, Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

Hard Sugar Gingerbread (nice.) 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, one tablespoon of 
ginger, a little salt, and flour enough to roll thin. Cut in squares 
and bake in a quick oven. — [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Gingerbread- 
One pint of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one of sour milk, 
one-half of butter, one teaspoon of soda, one tablespoon of ginger, 
three eggs, and flour enough to stiffen. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Jumbles. 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of cream, one egg, one tea- 
spoon of soda, flour enough to roll out. — [Mrs. Wm. B. Douglass. 

Superior Molasses Cake- 

Two cups of molasses, one of sour cream, one of sour milk, one 
tablespoon of butter, two teaspoons of soda, two of ginger, one of 
salt, and flour enough for a thick batter. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 



Royal Baking Powder is guaranteed as represented. 



88 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Good Molasses Gingerbread. 

One cup of boiling water, two of molasses, two teaspoons of 
saleratus, one tablespoon of butter or lard, one of ginger, and a 
little salt. When cool add flour — not very stiff. — Miss Sadie Kim- 
ball. 

Soft Gingerbread- 
One cup of butter, one of white sugar, and rub to a cream ; 
then add one cup of syrup ; beat three eggs well and add ; then 
one tablespoon each of cinnamon, allspice and ginger ; next add 
three cups of sifted flour; and last, one teaspoon of soda, dissolved 
in a teacup of sour milk. — [Miss Hellie Miller. 

Fatuous Ginger Snaps- 
Three pounds of flour, one and one-half of brown sugar, one 
and one-quarter of shortening, (two-thirds butter and one-third 
lard,) one pint of thick molasses, one-half pint of sour milk, and 
one teaspoon of soda, two tablespoons of ginger, and one teaspoon 
of cloves. Mix well. Be sure not to add any more milk or flour. 
Make exactly according to directions, and they will be found very 
nice. Roll very thin and bake quickly. — [Mrs. Jesse L. Williams. 

Ginger Snaps 

One pint of molasses, one teacup of butter, one tablespoon of 
ginger, one-half tablespoon of cloves, one teaspoon soda; boil all 
together until thoroughly mixed. When cold add as much flour as 
you can mix in. Roll thin and bake quick. — [Mrs. Dr. Chapman. 

Ginger Nuts- 
One pound of sugar, six eggs, one tablespoon each of ginger and 
cinnamon, one teaspoon each of cloves, soda and cream tartar ; mix 
stiff, roll out and cut with a biscuit cutter; bake on tins in a quick 
oven. — [Mrs. Jane Moyer. 

Sugar Gingerbread- 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, four eggs, two-thirds teaspoon 
of soda, one-half of cream tartar, one nutmeg, some kind of essence, 
flour to make stiff; roll out on tin sheets, cut into squares when 
baked. — [Mrs. Sadie Kimball. 

Try the Recipes in this book with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSKIIOIJ) TKKASURE. 



Ginger Snaps- 

One cup molasses, one-half of butter, one teaspoon of soda, one 
of ginger, one of ground cloves, flour enough to stiffen, roll thin 
and bake quick. — [Miss Dolly Ward. 

Cookies. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, three 
teaspoons baking powder, one hall scant cup of sweet milk, flavor- 
ing and flour enough to make it stiff enough to roll out — [Mrs. 
Dr. Woodward. 

Aunt Nelly's Cakes (very nice) 

Five cups of flour, two and a half of sugar, one of butter, one 
of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, roll it thin and cut out with a 
biscuit cutter and then cut a small hole in the center, beat up the 
whites of two eggs and wash the tops, and sprinkle sugar and cinna- 
mon on them before baking ; bake in a hot oven. — [Miss Mary 
Hanks and Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Aunt Eliza's Cookies (extra) 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, four great table- 
spoons of cold water, one and a half teaspoons of saleratus, flour 
enough to roll out, season with lemon, bake lightly in a quick oven. 
—[Mrs .C. D. Newell. 

Clove Cookies. 

Three pounds of flour, one of butter, one sugar, four eggs, rub 
the butter and sugar together, add as much molasses as will mix the 
flour, one teaspoon saleratus, cloves (ground) to taste. — [Mrs. Jesse 
Williams. 

Soft Jumbles- 

Seven eggs, five cups of sugar, two of butter, one of milk, one 
nutmeg, teaspoon saleratus ; beat the eggs, butter and sugar well 
together, have the milk warm, into which stir the saleratus, flour 
enough to handle and roll out. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Drop Cakes- 
One and a half cups of sugar, three of flour, one egg, one table- 
spoon of butter, one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar in one 
cup of sweet milk, flavor highly and drop on buttered tins. — [Mrs. 
Jesse Williams. 

Nothing is so good for the purpose as Royal Baking Powder. 



9© HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Jumbles- 
Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one of butter, one teaspoon of 
soda, dissolved in quarter cup of cold water, caraway seed, mix soft 
and roll thin. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 

Crullers- 

One-half pound of butter, one of sugar, four eggs, dissolve in a 
teacup of thick cream, a teacup of saleratus, add the eggs, make as 
stiff as bread dough, roll out and cut in any shape you please, fry 
in hot lard. You can add a glass of brandy and spices if you de- 
sire,— [Mrs. Etta Joslin and Mrs. Will Joslin. 

Crullers- 
Three eggs, one cup white sugar, three tablespoons melted lard, 
three of cold water, little salt and soda. — [Mrs. Pool. 

Doughnuts- 
Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one of milk, butter half 
the size of a hen's egg, one teaspoon of soda, nutmeg, flour enough 
to roll out. — [Mrs. K. L. Smith. 

Doughnuts- 
Three eggs, one coffee cup of sugar, one of sour milk, one tea- 
spoon of soda, one-half of shortening, flour enough to roll out. — 
[Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

Doughnuts- 
Three eggs, two quarts of flour, three teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, sift well together, add the eggs, one and a half coffee cups of 
white sugar, one and a half cups of sweet milk, piece of butter size 
of a walnut, season to taste, mix until stiff enough to roll out; fry 
in hot lard. — [Mrs. John Morgan. 

Doughnuts- 
Two eggs, two cups white sugar, one of sweet milk, one table 
spoon melted butter, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda, one 
of salt. — [Mrs. Pool. 

Doughnuts- 
One egg, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, one cup of 
sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, little ground cinnamon, flour 
enough to roll thin ; fry in hot lard. — [Miss Dolly Ward. 

Be sure you have the Royal Baking Powder then go ahead. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 9 1 



Doughnuts Without Eggs • 

Two quarts of flour, three heaping teaspoons of Royal Baking 
Powder, sift well together, add two cups of white sugar, one and a 
half of sweet milk, piece of butter size of a hickory nut, season to 
taste, mix until stiff enough to fry. — -[Mrs. John Morgan, 

Raised Doughnuts. 

One quart of bread dough that is ready to bake, mixed with two 
teacups of sugar, two tablespoons of shortening, roll thin and fry in 
hot lard. — [Mrs Martha Bieber. 

Jelly Turnover- 

To one quart of bread dough that is ready to bake, add one tea- 
cup of sugar, two tablespoons of shortening, roll thin and cut with 
a biscuit cutter, then stretch as thin as possible, put a lump of hard 
jelly in the centre, moisten the edges, turn over and pinch firmly 
together, fry in hot lard. Are nicer when first made Mince meat 
can be substituted in place of jelly, taking care to fold closely to- 
gether ; also, any firm preserves. — [Mrs. Martha Bieber, Mrs. B. 
H. Kimball. 

French Rolls. 

Boil and mash two potatoes, one quart of water and one-half cup 
of yeast ; stir stiff with flour and set away to rise ; when light add 
one cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one tablespoon of cin- 
namon, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, one-half pound of 
dried currants, then roll out and bake on tins. — [Mrs. Jane Moyer. 

Doughnuts- 
One cup of sugar, one and one-half of sour milk, six cups of flour, 
two eggs, two tablespoon fuls of butter, one teaspoonful of soda. — 
[Miss Emma Hardy 



Try the Recipes in this book with Royal Baking Powder \ 



9 2 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Apple Custard- 

One pint of strained apple, one pint of cream, five eggs, sugar 
and cream. — [Miss Emma Hardy. 

Hotch Patch- 
Take equal quantities of cling peaches, pears and apples that will 
not cook to pieces, put together and weigh. Take one-half the 
weight of coffee sugar, have the syrup boiling hot before adding the 
fruit, boil over a slow fire for three hours ; put in stone jars and 
seal up with paper and white of an egg. — [Mrs. Allen. 

Marmalade- 
One peck of quinces, two pecks of nice ripe apples, pare and 
stew separately. Take a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit; 
if the fruit is sweet three-fourths of a pound is sufficient. Mix well 
and cook about three-quarters of an hour, stirring all the time, then 
take out in small bowls. — [Mrs. M. J. Graff. 

Rhubarb Jam- 

Pare the stalks and cut it up small. To every twelve pounds of 
rhubarb add ten of sugar in lumps, with the juice and peel of a lem- 
on, which must be taken out after the jam is boiled. Boil it with 
the sugar very slowly that the stalks may dissolve. This will not 
be less than one-half hour. Must be stirred continually. — [Mrs. 

Miller. 

To Preserve Quinces. 

Peel the quinces and boil until a straw will pierce through them, 

then put them into the hot syrup and cook until red. The syrup 

should be made with a pound of sugar to each pound of the fruit. 

—[Mrs. F. H. Hall. 

Preserved Grapes. 

Slip the grapes from their skins, save the latter, and put the pulps 
over the fire, and heat them. They will dissolve to liquid. When 
heated enough to melt, strain through a coarse sieve to remove the 
seeds. Put the juice and skins back into the kettle with three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. The skins will fill 
up again with the pulp. They require very little cooking as there 
is no water with them. — [Mrs. Randall. 



Make a pudding with Roy at Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 93 

Preserved Strawberries (very nice.) 

Take equal weights of strawberries and white sugar, put the sugar 
into a pan with merely water enough to dissolve it, and let it boil 
until the surface is covered with bubbles— about 20 minutes— then 
put in the fruit with one pint of red currant juice to each pound of 
strawberries, which will improve the color of the berries ; allow it 
to boil five minutes, good, and then put it into small jars. It is 
not necessary to use more sugar on account of the currant juice, as 
the berries themselves are sweet. — [Mrs. Miller. 

Preserved Pears- 
Sickle or Bartlett, halve them, take three-quarters of a pound of 
granulated sugar to a pound of fruit ; boil them first in water until 
you can put a straw through them; have your syrup made and boil 
them in that until they are clear ; put in a glass jar and pour the 
syrup over them; when making the syrup put in a little sliced 
lemon and green ginger. — [Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Rhubarb. 

If you want to imitate green apple sauce, cut up the rhubarb 
stalks into an earthen pie dish, sprinkle sugar over them, cover with 
a plate and set in the oven until soft — fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Orange Marmalade ■ 

Weigh the oranges and allow pound for pound of sugar, pare off 
the yellow outside rind of one-half the oranges as thin as possible, 
putting it into a pail with plenty of cold water ; cover tight and 
boil slowly until soft enough to pierce with a straw easily; in the 
meantime grate the rind of the other half and put aside ; squeeze 
the juice of the oranges through a sieve, then put the sugar into a 
kettle with one-half pint or less of water to each pound of sugar to 
clarify the sugar, when the sugar is dissolved put over the fire and 
skim until clear and thick; next take the boiled parings and cut 
into very small shreds, put them in sugar and boil ten minutes • 
then put in the pulp juice and grated rind and boil all together. It 
is a transparent mass. — [Mrs. Nellie G . 

Nothing is so good for Ihe purpose as Royal Baking Powder. 



94 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Green Tomato Preserves. 

Eight pounds of small green tomatoes, pierce each with a fork, 
seven pounds of sugar, the juice of four lemons, one ounce of gin- 
ger and mace, use the ginger root ; heat all together and boil until 
the tomatoes are clear ; skim them out and spread upon dishes to 
cool ; boil the syrup thick, put the fruit into jars and cover with 
hot syrup, — [Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Unique Preserves. 

Gather small young cucumbers, lay them in strong brine for one 
week ; wash them, soak in soft water a day and a night, changing 
this four times. Line a bell mettle kettle with vine leaves, lay in 
the cucumbers with a little alum, fill up with clear water, cover with 
vine leaves, then with a close lid and green as for pickles : do not 
let them boil ; when greened drop in ice water ; when cold wipe, 
cut a slit in the side, dig out the seeds, fill with chopped raisins and 
citron, sew up with thread. Make a syrup, allowing one pound of 
sugar to each pound of cucumbers with a pint of water. Heat to a 
boil, skim and drop in the cucumbers. Simmer one-half hour, take 
out and put upon dishes in the sun while you boil down the syrup 
with a few slices of ginger root added ; when thick pnt in the 
cucumbers again, simmer five minutes, and put them in glass jars, 
tying up when cold. This is copied from Marion Harland's 
" Common Sense" because of its oddity. She says "it is a singu- 
larly delicious sweetmeat." 

To Keep Preserves- 
Apply the white of an egg to a single thickness of white tissue 
paper, with which cover the jars, lapping over an inch or two. It 
will require no tying, and when dry will be very tight and strong. 



Apple Jam- 
Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good sour apples ; 
pare, core and chop them fine, make a good clear syrup of the su- 
gar, add the apples, the juice and grated rind of three lemons and 
a few pieces of white ginger. Boil until the apple looks clear and 
yellow. On no account omit the ginger. — [Dolly W. 

Make wheat cakes with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



95 



Strawberry Jam- 
Put the fruit into a jar and stand it in a pan of boiling water over 
the fire until cool. Keep mashing the berries, after which boil the 
juice to the proper consistency, adding to every pound of juice 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. — [Miss Louisa Ward. 
A Nice Way to Bake Apples. 
Fill your baking pans with medium sized apples which have been 
nicely pared and cored, fill the cavities with sugar and pieces of 
butter and put them in the oven, having first poured a little water 
over them; flavor as desired. Omit butter if not wished so rich. — 
[Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Coddled Apples. 
Peel the apples leaving the stems on, and put as many as will 
stand into the preserving kettle, put in a little water and let them 
boil until they are tender, take them out carefully, allow a cup of 
sugar to three apples, put it into the water they were boiled in and 
boil ten minutes. Peel a lemon very thin in very narrow strips, lay 
them around the stem of the apple, put them in the syrup and boil 
until they are clear. Put them into the dish in which you send 
them to the table and pour the syrup over them. Will not keep 
for more than three or four days. — [Aunt Sarah. 



Suggestions for Making Jellies. 

A friend says : " Instead of making jelly in summer, when there 
is so much to do, can the juice and make when wanted." Jelly is 
always nicer when fresh. She has tried it for two years. 

To Clarify Sugar. 

The whites of three eggs, with the shells broken in will clarify a 
large porcelain kettle full of sugar. The scum which will rise on 
the top must be carefully removed. For maple sugar, use the white 
of one egg with the shell to two pounds. Jellies and preserves are 
much nicer with clarified sugar. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Be sure you have the Royal Baking Powder then go ahead. 



96 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Orange Jelly. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in a cup of cold water for half an hour. 
To one and one-half cups of orange juice and the juice of one lem- 
on, add one cup of sugar. Pour one and one-half cups of boiling 
water on the gelatine ; stir until all is dissolved and add the juice. 
Pour into glasses or molds. — [Miss Emma Hardy, Mrs. John 
Hough. 

Lemon Jelly- 

Take one pound of loaf sugar, six eggs, the juice of six lemons 
and the rind of two, one-fourth pound of butter. Put the sugar, 
butter and lemon in a saucepan and melt slowly ; when all are dis- 
solved, stir in the eggs which have been well whisked. Stir rapidly 
until as thick as honey. If kept air tight will keep a year. — [Miss 

Hattie Woodward. 

Wine Jelly- 

One-half box Cox gelatine in one-half pint of cold water , let it 
stand two hours, then add one pint of boiling water, one-half pint 
of sherry wine, two lemons, rind and juice, which add to the gela- 
tine and cold water, with fourteen tablespoons of sugar ; strain and 
pour into glasses or moulds. — [Miss Ella Moore, Mrs. Addie How- 
ard, Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Wine Jelly. 

One box of gelatine, soak two hours, then stir in well the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, one pint of boiling water, one pint 
of sugar, one and one-half pints of wine. — [Mrs. John Hough. 

Gelatine - 

One box Cox's gelatine, add one pint of cold water, the juice of 
four lemons and rind of two. Let it soak one hour, then pour on 
three pints of boiling water, add two pounds of white sugar. Strain 
and set in a cool place to jelly. — [Mrs. Mattie Little, Mrs. Hattie 

Chapman. 

Lemon Jelly for Tarts- 
Beat one egg and one cup of sugar together, when well mixed 
add the juice of one lemon and two tablespoons of cold water. Put 
in a shallow dish, set on the stove, stir steadily until it thickens, 
then take off immediately. Do not let it boil. When cool, put it 
in the tarts. — ["Mignon." 

Royal Baking Powder is pure. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. q7 



Currant Jelly- 
Strain the juice and to every pint allow a pound of sugar, put in 
one-half the sugar, boil about fifteen minutes, then add the remain- 
der of the sugar which has first been heated, taking it off just as it 
comes to a boil. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Cranberry Jelly- 

Pick over the fruit and boil till soft in water enough to cover it. 
Strain through a sieve and weigh equal quantities of the pulp and 
sugar ; boil gently fifteen or twenty minutes, taking care it does 
not burn. — [Miss Dolly Ward. 

Lemon Butter. 

Three eggs, three lemons grated fine, one pint sugar, butter size 
of an egg j stir all together and steam until it thickens. — [Mrs. J. 
L. Worden. 



Duryeas" Plain Corn Starch Pudding- 
One quart of milk, five tablespoonsful of the Improved Corn 
Starch, four ounces of sugar. Heat the milk and sugar to boiling ; 
then add the Improved Corn Starch, it having been previously well 
dissolved in a part of the milk, cold ; boil two or three minutes, 
stirring it briskly ; flavor to taste, and pour the pudding into 
moulds. When cold, turn it out, and serve with cold stewed fruit, 
preserves, or jellies, as a sauce. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



DRINKS. 

Currant Shrub. 

To a pint of strained currant juice put one pound of sugar, boil 

gently together eight or ten minutes, then set it where it will cool, 

and when lukewarm add a wineglass of brandy to a pint of syrup. 

Bottle and cork it tight and keep it in a cool place. — [Mrs. Jesse 

Williams. 

Lemonade Without Lemons. 

Tartaric acid one-half ounce, three of loaf sugar, little essence of 
lemon. Powder the tartaric acid and sugar very fine, mix them 
together, pour on the essence of lemon a few drops at a time, mix 
thoroughly and divide into twelve parts, wrapping each up separate- 
ly in white paper. When wanted dissolve in cold water, and you 
will have a good lemonade. It is a nice drink for persons who are 

traveling. — [Mrs. Barnes. 

Cream Nectar- 

Take six pounds of refined sugar, four ounces tartaric acid, two 
quarts of water, and when warm add the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a froth. Be careful that it does not boil. When cool strain it 
and add a teaspoon of essence of lemon. Directions for use : Take 
two tablespoons of the above syrup to a glass filled two-thirds full 
of water, and add a very small quantity of carbonate of soda, and 
stir well until it effervesces. Drink immediately. Make the syrup 
in a porcelain or brass kettle. — [Mrs. Jessie Williams. 
Blackberry Cordial- 

To each quart of juice add a little less than one pound of sugar, 

one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Boil nearly an 

hour, strain the liquid from the spices, or better still, have the 

spices tied in a bag loosely. When cool, add two tablespoons of 

New England Rum or brandy, and bottle tight. — [Mrs. Henry 

Little. 

Currant Wine. 

Squeeze the currants, to every gallon of juice add two of water 

and nine pounds of sugar ; let it stand until it ferments ; when done 

fermenting, bottle tight. — [Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

Royal Baking Powder makes delicious short cake. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 99 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Put the blackberries in a jar plunged in a kettle of boiling water, 
till they are a "mush," press or strain out the juice, add one pound 
of loaf sugar to two quarts of juice, one-half ounce each of cinna- 
mon, cloves and allspice put in whole, boil until the strength is 
extracted. When cold, skim out the spices, add a pint of good 
brandy, bottle and seal the corks. — [Mrs. Hugh McCulloch, Mrs. 
I. G. Kimball. 

Raspberry Shrub- 

To three quarts of mashed raspberries put one of good vinegar, 
let it remain a day, then strain it and put to each pint one pound 
of white sugar. Boil the whole together, for one-half hour. Skim 
it clear. When cool add one wineglass of brandy to each pint of 
the shrub. Two tablespoons of this mixed with two-thirds of a 
tumbler of water is a refreshing drink in a fever. Bottle and cork 
tight and keep in a cool place. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Blackberry Shrub- 
Put the berries over a moderate fire and let them simmer till they 
break to pieces, then strain through a flannel cloth, to each pint of 
juice put one pound of white sugar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, 
one-fourth pound of mace and six teaspoons of cloves all pulverized. 
Boil the whole together fifteen minutes, strain it, when cool add to 
each pint of syrup one wineglass of French brandy. Bottle, cork 
and seal it ; keep it in a cool place. This mixed with cold water in 
the proportion of a wineglass to two-thirds of a tumbler of water is 
an excellent remedy for dysentery. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Elderberry Wine- 
Squeeze the elderberries through a wine press, take as much again 
water as juice, three pounds of sugar to a gallon of the water and 
juice, put in bottles or large jars until it ferments; when it stops 
bottle it up. — [Mrs. James Cairns. 

Ginger Pop- 
Cream tartar one pound, ginger one and one-half ounces, white 
sugar seven pounds, essence lemon one drachm, water six gallons, 
yeast one-half pint. Mix, tie the corks down. 

Buy the old standard Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Lemon Beer 

Commence early in the morning. Take two large lemons, cut 
them in slices, and put them into the pot or jar in which you arc- 
going to make \ our beer. Now take a pound of white sugar anil 
put it over the lemons, add one gallon of boiling water, stand it 
away until ir is cool, and then put in one-quarter cup of yeast. Let 
it stand until it ferments. Bottle it in the evening in stone jugs, 
cork it tight. This is an elegant and refreshing drink in summer. 
—[Mrs. L. B. 

Currant Wine- 

Squeeze the currants. To every gallon of juice add two of wa- 
ter and nine pounds of sugar. Let it stand until it ferments, then 
when done fermenting bottle tight. — [Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

Currant "Wine. 
Wash the fruit and squeeze out the juice. Put to the pulp as 
much cold water as you have juice and let it stand over night, then 
strain and pour into the juice, and add three pounds of sugar to a 
gallon of the mixture. Set in a cool place and bottle in February. 
— [Mrs. Dr. Knapp. 

Gooseberry Champagne. 

Three gallons of soft water ^ measured after being boiled) to six 
gallons of gooseberries fully ripe. Wash and put them into a stone 
jar, pour on the boiling water and cover the jar. Let it stand 
twelve hours, then strain, adding to each quart of liquor three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar. Let it stand eight or nine hours. Stir 
several times and pour into a cask of proper size. As soon as it 
stops hissing stop it close, adding one pint of brandy to every gal- 
lon of wine. Bottle it in three or four months — in cold weather. 
Refine by allowing to every gallon the whites of two eggs, beaten 
to a froth, with one teaspoon of salt. Put two or three raisins in 
each bottle. — [Mrs. Dr. Knapp. 

White Spruce Beer 

Three pounds of loaf sugar, five gallons of water with enough of 
essence of spruce to give it a flavor, a cup of good yeast, a little 
lemon peel if you choose, and when fermented bottle it up close. It 
is a delightful beverage in warm weather. 



£ggs are saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Grape Wine- 
Take a gallon of good Deleware grapes and add one gallon of 
water after bruising the grapes. Let it stand for eight days and 
then draw it off. Then add to each gallon of water three pounds 
of sugar, stirring it in well. Let it stand over night, when it can 
be bottled for use. If allowed to stand three or four months it will 
be equal to imported wine. — [Mrs. L. B. 



PICKLES. 



Mange Pickles - 

Take one hundred mangoes of all sizes. They should be grown 
quick, that is quite green and tender. Put them in brine seven days, 
then wash them in clear water, pack them in large stone jars with 
fresh vine leaves. Sprinkle in for the above quantity two ounces 
of powdered alum. Fill up the jars with boiling water, cover tight 
and let them stand all night. Have in readiness and well washed 
two quarts of finely scraped horse-radish, and two quarts blanched 
celery cut in pieces, two quarts button onions, two pounds white 
mustard seed, one and a half of black, ounce of mace broken 
in small bits, one-half ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon 
broken fine, two of allspice, one of black pepper, (whole). Mix 
these ingredients well together with pieces of melon, small cucum 
bers, one quart of sterna seeds, raddish pods, chopped cabbage to 
fill up the mangoes with. Sew in each bung with a coarse thread, 
pack them in jars and cover with the very best cider vinegar. It is 
very important to use good vinegar. — [Mrs. Charles McCulloch, 
Miss Emma Hardy, Mrs. G. L. Little. 



Milk is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



13 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Chopped Pickles- 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, same of green cucumbers, one 
peck white onions, two dozen green peppers, one large bunch of 
celery, three ounces celery seed. Pack all down in salt twelve 
hours. Squeeze and scald pure cider vinegar and pour over it. — 
[Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Peach Mangoes- 
Wash and wipe the peaches, cut them in half, fill them with 
grated horse-radish, mace, cinnamon, cloves and white mustard 
seeds. Put them into a jar, boil together one pound of sugar and 
three pints of vinegar, with the same spices. After it is cool, pour 
over the peaches. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Chili Sauce- 
One large onion chopped fine, six green peppers (remove the 
seed) chopped fine with the onion, twelve good ripe tomatoes, after 
.removing the skins. Put all in a pan, add one tablespoon of salt, 
one of brown sugar, two cups of vinegar, one teaspoon of ginger, 
one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, one nutmeg; stew 
all gently until cooked, and bottle for use. — [Mrs. J. B. Morse and 
Mrs. Beals. 

Cucumber Catsup- 
Take cucumbers that are half grown, grate them and press the 
juice out thoroughly, add vinegar to make it the consistency of 
catsup, season with pepper and salt to taste and seal up before put- 
ting it away, for when made air tight it can be kept for years. — 
[Mrs. Mattie H. Little and Mrs. Hankins. 

Chow Chow- 

To one peck of green tomatoes add three good sized onions and 
six green peppers, first removing the seeds, chop together until fine 
and boil three minutes in three quarts of vinegar; throw this vine- 
gar away after straining, then to two quarts of vinegar when scald- 
ing hot add two cups of sugar, one cup mixed mustard, one table- 
spoon of ground cloves, one of allspice, two of cinnamon, three of 
salt and two of celery seed. Pour over the tomatoes hot. — [Mrs- 
Hattie Chapman and Mrs. Mattie Little. 



Royal Baking Powder is used by everyone. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



IO3 



Red Cabbage • 

Cut fine and salt it; add spices to taste; boil the vinegar, and 
when cold pour over the cabbage. — [Mrs. Brown. 
Very Nice Slaw- 
Take one head ol cabbage, chop — not too fine — sprinkle pepper 
and salt over it and then take one-quarter pound of butter, let it 
melt slowly, then add three tablespoons of flour, one pint of hot 
water, one pint of vinegar, letting all boil, then add the yolks only 
of five eggs. Remove from the fire. Do not pour this over the 
cabbage till half an hour before it is sent to the table. — [Mrs. Wm. 
B. Douglass. 

Green Pepper Mangoes. 

Cut the tops out and lay them in salt water for two days. Cut 
cabbage up fine, add some mustard, allspice and cloves, put them 
in the pepper and tie the tops on, place them in the jars and pour 
the vinegar over, and in a few weeks they are fit for use. — [Mrs. 

Brown. 

Gooseberry Catsup- 
One pound of gooseberries, one-half of sugar, one gill of vinegar 
and spice to taste. — [Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

Green Tomato Pickle- 

To one peck of chopped tomatoes add one pint of salt, let it stand 
over night, then drain and scald in vinegar. Put to every peck of 
tomatoes, three heads of cabbage, six green peppers, two tablespoons 
of cinnamon and black pepper. — [Mrs- Judge Worden. 

Tomato Catsup 

One bushel of tomatoes, boil until soft, squeeze them through a 
fine wire sieve, add half a gallon of vinegar, half a pint of salt, two 
ounces of cloves, one-quarter of allspice, one-half of cayenne pep- 
per and five heads of garlic skinned and separated. Mix together 
and boil about three hours, or until reduced about one-half, then 
bottle without straining. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Green Currant Catsup- 
Five pounds stemmed currants, two pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar. Season with two ounces of cloves, two ounces of cinna- 
mon. Boil over a steady fire two hours. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Take none but Royal Baking Powder. 



T04 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Tomato Catsup- 

One bushel of tomatoes. Boil until soft, then squeeze through a 
hair sieve, add one pint salt, half gallon vinegar, quarter pound 
allspice,, half ounce cloves, half ounce cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoon black pepper, half ounce white mustard seed. Boil until ru- 
duced about one half. When cold enough add one pint of brandy, 
then bottle up. -[Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

Tomato Catsup- 

Pare the tomatoes, salt and let them stand over night. Pour off 
the juice and boil the tomatoes. Strain through a sieve. To two 
quarts <>t tomatoes take one ounce of cloves, two of pepper, two 
nutmegs, two tablespoons each of allspice, cinnamon and mustard, 
one quart of vinegar.. Boil some time after adding spices. Put in 
* inegar last. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 

Tomato Catsup* 
Boil two gallons of peeled and sliced tomatoes until reduced to 

one gallon, strain through a sieve and add one pint of strong vine- 
gar and one ounce of whole cinnamon and two ounces of whole 
(loves, two tablespoons of salt, one onion. Let it boil thoroughly 
then skim the spices off. Bottle air tight. Good for five years. — 
[Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

C nrrant Catsup- 
Ten pounds stewed currants, three pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and black 
pepper, one-half of salt. Boil all together very fast for half an hour. 
— [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Chow Chow. 

Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle salt over them and let them stand 
all night. In the morning squeeze out the juice thoroughly, then 
to one gallon of chopped tomatoes put one-half gallon of strong 
vinegar, one pint of grated horse radish, a tablespoon each of 
ground mustard, cinnamon, allspice, cloves and pepper, and then 
bottle for use. Does not need to be cooked. — [Mrs. Lizzie Cutsall 
and Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



Make a cake with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 105 



Chow Chow- 

Two quarts small onions, four of small pickles and three good 
sized cauliflowers. Cut the cauliflower and pickles in small square 
pieces and soak all in strong salt water over night, then rinse off 
well and boil in vinegar until quite tender, mix one pound of best 
black ground mustard and two onnces best table oil with enough 
vinegar to mix well with, then stir in while boiling, and just before 
taking from the fire add three ounces of fine red peppers and it is 
ready to bottle. If made properly, this chow chow is equally as 
nice as any you can buy, and is much less expensive. — [Mrs. A. C. 

Keel. 

Cabbage Dressing- 
Two eggs, one teaspoon salt, one of mixed mustard, one cup of 
vinegar. Add last half cup boiling water. Put all on the stove 
and let it come to a boil. — [Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Shirley Sauee. 
Two dozen large ripe tomatoes, four onions, four peppers, four 
tablespoons of sugar, two ounces of salt, four cups of vinegar. 
Scald the tomatoes and slice them up. Chop the onions and pep- 
pers. Add sugar and salt and vineger, boil two hours. — [Mrs. M. 
Twombly and Mrs. M. Kimball. 

Spanish Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, same quantity of onions, or 
less will do, four cauliflowers or one head of cabbage, all to be 
salted twenty-four hours before pickling. Drain well and mix 
with one ounce of tumeric, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one 
pound of white mustard and small cucumbers. Put in a kettle in 
layers, cover with vinegar and boil until tender. Watch closely for 
it burns easily. — [Miss Hattie Woodward. 

Hot Pickles 

Three quarts best vinegar, eight ounces salt, two ounces ginger, 
one-half of mace, one-quart of shalotts, one-half tablespoon of 
cayenne pepper, one ounce mustard seed. Boil all together half 
an hour and put in a stone jar. Gather what vegetables you like, 
wipe clean and put into the pickle. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Royal Baking Powder makes delicious biscuit. 



Io6 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Pickled Onions- 
One peck of small onions. Peel and lay them in salt water for 
three days. Make the water strong enough to bear an egg- Take 
them out and put them to soak in fresh water for one day, then 
put them in milk and let them come 10 a boil, when drain until 
Place them in jars with red pepper pods, boil the vinegar, all- 
spice, 'loves and mace together, and when lukewarm put it on the 
onions, and in a few days they are'fit for use. — [Mrs. Brown. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Make a brine strong enough to bear up an egg, put in small cu- 
cumbers, let them stand twenty-four hours, then pour off and put 
over the fire. Let it come to a boil, then skim and pour boiling 
hot over the cucumbers. Do so for three mornings, then drain off 
the brine, pour on boiling hot water, let it stand twenty-four hours, 
then dry off and pack in jars, putting first in the jar slips of horse- 
radish ; pack tightly, mixing horse-radish all through, then to one 
gallon of pickle sprinkle in one pound of brown sugar, one ounce 
English mustard, one of allspice, one of cinnamon, alum size of a 
small hickory nut, and pour good cider vinegar over them. — [Mrs. 
D. B. Strope. 

Cucumber Pickles - 
Wash the cucumbers nicely, place them in a stone jar, make a 
brine of salt and water, pour over them and let them stand over 
night, then draw off the brine. Have ready enough good cider vin- 
egar to cover them, add a small lump of alum and some cloves, cin- 
namon and allspice tied up in a bag ; place the whole over the fire, 
let it come to a boil, then pour over the cucumbers; let them stand 
three days closely covered, then boil the vinegar, pour over them 
again, let them stand three days more ; boil and pour over, cover 
tight and set away for use boiling hot. — [Mrs. Pool. 

Spiced Currants (very nice-) 

Three pounds stemmed currants, two of brown sugar, one-half 
tablespoon ground cloves, same of allspice and cinnamon, one-half 
pint cider vinegar. Boil down to a jam. Will keep for a year or 
two if you don't eat it up. Splendid with cold meat. — [Mrs. Ann 
Magoun. 

Shortening is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 107 



Spiced Tomatoes. 

Take tomatoes, (green), slice them thin, lay them in jars in lay- 
ers, salt and tomatoes alternately. Let them stand over night, then 
take them out and scald in clear water, drain them dry, then take 
one gallon of cider vinegar, four pounds of sugar, spice to taste 
with one-quarter pound each of cinnamon and cloves ; have the 
vinegar hot to pour over the tomatoes. The above preparation will 
do for four gallons of sliced tomatoes. — [Mrs. Jerry Mudge. 

Superior Pickled Apples- 

Take a peck of sweet apples and pare them, boil until tender i n 
a syrup made of four pounds of sugar to one quart best cider vine- 
gar, then remove them from what is left of the syrup and make a 
new one of five pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar, to which 
add two teaspoons each of cloves and cinnamon tied in a bag ; let 
this boil fifteen or twenty minutes and pour while hot over the 
fruit, then can and seal. The first syrup can be easily used up for 
other sauces. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Spiced Peaches- 
One pint of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one teaspoon of each 

kind of ground spices tied up in a bag, steam the peaches until you 
can put a straw through them, boil the syrup until thick, then scald 
the peaches in it three mornings in succession, boiling the syrup 
down if it becomes thin from the peaches standing in it. — [Aunt 
Sarah . 

Spiced Pears- 
For seven pounds of pears, three pounds of sugar, one quart vin- 
egar and spice to taste. — [Mrs. J. M. Humaston. 

Spiced Cucumber Pickles- 

Scald your pickles nine mornings in salt water, then use cider 
vinegar, four pounds of sugar to one gallon of vinegar; red peppers 
and spices to taste. — [Mrs. Jerry Mudge. 

Spiced Peaches- 
Five pounds of peaches, two of brown sugar, one quart of vine- 
gar, one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and mace, wipe and cut 
the peaches in half, boil them until done in the sugar and vinegar. 
Take out the fruit, put your spices, tied in a bag, in the svrup, boil 
well and pour on the peaches. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 



Make doughnuts with Royal Baking Powder. 



Io8 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Spicing Fruit. 

To three pounds of fruit, ounce of cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one pint of vinegar, one pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and spices 
down to a syrup, then add the fruit and boil until done. — [Mrs- 
Joslin. 

Sweet Pickles- 
One gallon of fruit, two quarts of sugar, three pints of vinegar, 
six cents worth of mace, cinnamon and cloves. — [Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Spiced Grapes 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Let it come to a boil, skim it well, put the 
grapes in a stone jar in bunches and pour the syrup on hot. Repeat 
three or four times. — [Mrs. D. H. Wright and Mrs. East. 

Water Melon Pickles- 
Prepare your rind by peeling off the green part, cut them in 
slices, soak them over night in water, in which salt and alum have 
been dissolved, then pour that off and soak them in fresh water 
over night. Then to eight pounds of rind dissolve four^pounds of 
sugar, put in a few pieces at a time and cook them till a fork will 
penetrate them easily, skim them out and put in more. When all 
are cooked drain the juice from and put it in your kettle, add 
one ounce of whole cloves and one ounce of stick cinnamon, and 
half an ounce of sliced white ginger to a gallon of the pickles. 
If wished sliced lemon can be used instead of the other spices. After 
adding spices or lemon boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then place 
them in a jar, pour the syrup over them and when perfectly cool 
add one pint of vinegar. You will have nice preserves if the 
vinegar is not added. — [Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Spiced Cherries 

To seven pounds of fruit take four of brown sugar, one and a half 
pints of vinegar, one ounce of cloves, two ounces each of cinna- 
mon and mace, spices put in a bag and boiled in vinegar and sugar, 
then pour it over the fruit. Let it stand three days, drain off and 
boil down a little, so doing from three to five days, pouring it hot 
over the fruit each time. Seal up air 'tight. — [Mrs. J. B. Fairbank 
and Mrs. Jane Moyer. 



Water answers as well as milk by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 109 

Dressing for Salad. 

One egg, one tablespoon of cream, one tablespoon of white 
sugar, three of vinegar, one tablespoonful of olive oil, one of made 
mustard and a little salt. 

Chicken Salad- 

Yolks of four eggs, one small tablespoon of mixed mustard, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half a bottle of oil. Beat some of the oil in the 
mustard and some in the egg, then mix it and beat it well, add last 
one-half cup of vinegar, one chicken and four heads of celery. 
Sufficient for five persons. — [Mrs. Julia Porter. 

Chicken Salad. 

Two large chickens boiled, the yolks of nine hard boiled eggs, 

half pint of sweet cream or salad oil, half pint of vinegar, one gill 

of mustard mixed, a small teaspoon cayenne pepper, one teaspoon 

salt and four large heads of celery chopped fine. — [Miss Hattie 

Woodward . 

Potato Salad. 

Chop fine one small onion, slice thin twelve cold potatoes, sea- 
son with pepper, salt and three tablespoons of vinegar, one of made 
mustard, two of salad oil ; mix thoroughly. It is very nice. A 
little chopped celery improves it. Is good without, however. — 

[Mrs. F. H. Hall. 

liohster Salad- 
One can lobsters, one egg boiled hard, mash the yolk fine, add 
one teaspoon mixed mustard, little salt, oil enough to thicken it, 
one tablespoon of vinegar and one head of lettuce. — [Mrs. Geo. L. 

Little, 

French Mustard. 

Take quarter of a pound of the best fine yellow mustard, pom- 
over it vinegar enongh to make a thin paste, add a pinch of salt 
and a small piece of calemus root. Set it on the stove and while it 
boils stir in a tablespoonful of flour previously wet with a little 
water, as quick as possible. Let it boil for twenty minutes, stirring 
constantly. Just before it is done stir in a teaspoonful of honey. 
When cool put in bottles and cork tight. Is very nice. — [Miss 
Laura Kimball. 

Shortening is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Rice Water. 

Take four tablespoons of rice and boil for an hour and a half in 

two quarts of water. Will have about a quart of rice water as the 

result, which may be sweetened and flavored to taste with nutmeg 

or cinnamon. 

Oat Meal Gruel. 

Add two tablespoons of oat meal to a pint of boding water, then 

add half a pint of milk and a little salt, simmer for half an hour, 

strain, sweeten and flavor with nutmeg. Raisins are acceptable as 

an addition in many cases. 

''idnie Water and Milk." 

It is useful when nothing else can be retained on the stomach. 
Slack a lump of lime as large as an egg in a quart of water. Stir 
frequently and allow to remain for twenty-four hours, then pour off 
the clear fluid from the sediment. To a wineglass full of this clear 
lime water add a wineglass full of fresh milk. A tablespoon of the 
mixture may be taken as frequently as desired. 

Barley Broth- 
Boil gently for half an hour one-half pint of pearl barley in a gal- 
lon of water, take three pounds of lamb chops with the fat cut off, 
or a rib soup bone, and put in a stew pan with water to cover ; add 
any kind of vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions, celery or tomatoes, 
cut them up fine and when tender add to the barley water and boil 
slowly two hours. — [Mrs. Will Kimball. 

Chicken Broth- 
Clean half a chicken, put into a stew pan containing a quart of 
cold water with salt to the taste, add a tablespoon of rice and boil 
slowly for two or three hours. Skim and take out the skin which 
has separated from the meat and add a little parsley or onion. 

Panada. 

Toast a slice of bread brown, the crust having been previously 
removed, cut into small squares, place in a bowl and sprinkle with 
salt and nutmeg ; pour into it a teacup of boiling water and allow 
it to stand until cool; a teaspoon of sherry wine improves the 
flavor. 



None is so good as the Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Beef Essence. 

Chop a pound of lean beef the same as for beef tea, put it into a 
pint bottle corked loosely, or a covered vessel without water, im- 
merse the vessel in a stew pan of cold water, bring the water to a 
boil and let it boil for two hours; pour off the essence and season 
with salt and pepper ; add onion and parsley if desired co render 
more palatable. 

Chicken Salad - 

Two boiled chickens picked up small, two large heads of celery, 
yolks of nine hard boiled eggs, half pint melted butter, half pint of 
vinegar, one gill of mixed mustard, half teaspoon cayenne pepper, 
two teaspoons of salt.— [Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Take as many oysters as you wish, put them in a kettle with a 
little boiling water and a tablespoon of salt, just let them scald 
quick, take them out and put in a collander to drain, then take the 
liquor off the oysters and add to the boiling water and boil a few 
minutes, then strain and take one cup of pure cider vinegar to half 
a cup of the water in which they are boiled, till you have enough to 
cover the oysters, put it on. the stove and boil, adding one table- 
spoon of allspice, one of whole black peppers, break up some mace, 
not very fine, add as much red pepper as you choose and boil all 
together five minutes; have the oysters ready in a dish, and when 
the liquor is lukewarm pour it over the oysters ; if pepared in the 
morning they will be ready for use in the evening — [Miss Dolly 
Ward. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 



It is very necessary for a sick person when recovering to have 
everything nice to tempt the appetite, and some of the slops made 
up and called good are detestable. The following recipes I know 
to be desirable, and so many people do not know anything about 
their preparation. — [Dr. W. C. Chapman. 

Royal Baking Powder is the best in use. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Toast Water. 

Toast a slice of stale bread half an inch thick until of a uniform 
brown color. Be careful not to scorch it. Pour over it a pint o^ 
boiling water, let it stand closely covered until cool, then strain 
and it is ready for use. It may be sweetened a little if more palata- 
ble to the patient. 

Beef Tea 

Chop a pound of lean beef into small pieces, pour over it a pint 
of cold water, cover and stand before the fire for two hours. Af- 
terward boil for an hour. Remove all the scum and oil, salt 
to the taste and also add a little pepper. Pour off but do not 

strain. 

Wine Whey- 

Add a wine glass of Madeira or Sherry wine to one-half a pint 
of boiling milk, strain through muslin, sweeten the whey to taste 
and grate into it a little nutmeg. 

Egg and Wine- 
Beat up a raw fresh egg and stir with two tablespoons of wine. 
May or may not sweeten, according to taste. 

Milk Punch 

Add one or two tablespoons of brandy, whisky or Jamaica rum 
to a tumblerful of milk. Sweeten and grate nutmeg on top. 

The three above preparations are very desirable when a patient is 
recovering from any low form of fever, when nutritious articles 
must be given in small quantities. 



The remaining receipes have been gathered from other sources : 

Egg Gruel- 
Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of white sugar and then 
beat the white to a froth ; pour a teacup of boiling water on the 
yolk, then stir in the white. Add cold milk or wine to taste. 

Duryeas 1 Corn Starch Porridge for Invalids. 

The yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonsful of the Improved 
Corn Starch, three of cold water, a little salt ; mix well together, 
then add one pint of boiling water. Sugar may be added, if de- 
sired. 

Make a pudding with Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



"3 



Sago Pudding or Gruel 

Into boiling water slowly stir sago until the consistency wished, 
and cook about twenty minutes, or until it is clear. May be eaten 
with cream and sugar. 

Soft Toast- 
Toast two thin slices of bread, put them in a warm plate and pour 
boiling water over them, cover quickly with another plate of the 
same size and drain the water off; remove the upper plate, butter 
the toast, put it in the oven one minute, then cover with a hot 

plate and serve at once. 

Tapioca Gruel • 

Soak tapioca over night in twice the quantity of water, then 

add milk and water, boil until soft, making the consistency to suit 

yourself. 

Graham Mush or Porridge. 

Made of boiling water and unsifted Graham flour stirred in in 
the same manner that Indian meal mush is made, stirring in a little 
at a time until the consistency wished. Boil hard fifteen or twenty 
minutes. At water cures no salt is allowed, but " out in the 
world " the taste of the people is not sufficiently regenerated to do 
without it. To be eaten with sugar and cream, or milk, if one is 
sufficiently "convalescent" to admit of it. Dates stirred in just 
before taking from the fire makes a pleasant addition. 

Milk and Eggs- 
Beat up a fresh egg with a little salt, pour upon it a pint of boil- 
ing milk, stirring all the time. Serve with or without toast. 

Sago Toast- 
One tablespoon of sago boiled in half a pint of milk or water 
with a little salt. When boiled clear pour upon crackers split and 
toasted nicely on both sides. 

Tapioca Cup Pudding- 
One tablespoon of tapioca soaked for two hours in nearly a cup 
of new milk. Stir into it the yolk of a fresh egg, a little sugar, salt 
and bake in a cup for fifteen minutes. A little jelly may be eaten 
with it if allowed, or a few fresh strawberries. 



Graham gems are better with a little Royal Baking Powder. 



114 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Invalid Apple Pie 

Slice up one or more nice tart apples in a saucer, sweeten with 
white sugar and cover with a moderately thick slice of bread but- 
tered slightly on the underside, when the bread is browned, the ap- 
ple, if of a tender kind and thinly sliced, will be done. 

Slippery elm and date water is cool and nourishing for sick peo- 
ple. Take a tumblerful of nice plump dates, or of slippery elm, 
put into a pint of cold water and let it stand until it becomes thick 
like mucilage. There is a great deal of nourishment in it. 

Arrow Root Jelly- 
Wet two heaping teaspoons of Bermuda arrow root in a little cold 
water and rub smooth, then stir into it a cup of boiling water with 
two teaspoons of sugar melted in it ; stir until clear, boiling steadily 
all the time, and add one teaspoon of lemon juice. Wet a cup in 
cold water and pour the jelly in. Eat cold, with sugar and cream, 
flavored to taste. Sago can be used if you soak it first one hour in 
cold water. Boil a little longer than you do the arrow root. 

Wafers- 
Mix Graham flour to a rather stiff" dough with milk and a little 
salt, cut into round cakes and roll again almost as thin as letter 
paper ; bake quickly ; can be mixed with water ; are very simple 
and palatable, and are nice with any kind of soup or broth, espe- 
cially with oyster soup. 



A Few Common Remedies for Sickness- 

The bark and burs of the prickly ash are stimulant and tonic, are 
almost a sovereign remedy for cold feet and hands and all diseases 
dependent on a sluggish or languid circulation. Dose — from one- 
half to one teaspoon of the powdered bark and berries. 

Smart weed produces powerful sweating, is an excellent remedy 
to break up a cold when threatened with a fever ; it may be drank 
in tea at liberty. 

Graham gems are better with a little Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 115 

Motherwort will ease pain in nervous headache. 

Boneset is laxative, tonic and expectorant; a tea made from the 
leaves and flowers and taken warm will evacuate the stomach in a 
gentle and safe manner. Taken cold, it acts as a laxative and tonic. 
Is useful also in coughs and colds. 

Dandelion is an excellent corrector of the bile. 

Sage is useful in fevers and for worms in children. 

Balm of Gilead buds or arnica flowers steeped in alcohol are ex- 
cellent for dressing wounds. 



Batter Pudding. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one pint of sweet milk, one-half 
cup of butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough 
to make a stiff batter, add the white of the eggs the last thing be- 
fore putting it in the moulds. Steam one hour and a half. 



Time is saved by usimg Royal Baking Powder. 



n6 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



A LIST OF PLAIN DINNERS & BREAKFASTS. 



These are only intended as suggestions to aid in solving the ever 
recurring problem, "What shall I get to eat?" 

Dinners for "Winter. 

Roast turkey, celery, cranberry sauce, boiled onions, mashed po- 
tatoes browned, mashed turnips — desert. 

Leg of mutton boiled, then roasted, cold slaw, baked potatoes, 
turnips, sweet potatoes, apple dumplings. 

Soup, mutton sliced and warmed over, roast potatoes, fried pars- 
nips, mince pie. 

Fish chowder, boiled potatoes, baked cabbage, pickled beets, 
apple pie. 

Beefsteak, pie, vegetables, batter pudding. 

Roast beef, stewed onions, cold slaw, browned potatoes, "poor 
man's pudding." 

Chicken pot pie, vegetables, cocoanut pudding. 

Bean soup, roast pork with apple sauce, squash, beets, potatoes, 
baked Indian pudding. 

Roast venison with currant jelly, chicken salad, vegetables, Brown 
Beaver (pudding). 

Boiled corn beef, vegetables, rice and raisins, with sauce. 

Boiled fowl stuffed with oysters, vegetables, cranberry sauce and 
bird's nest pudding. 

Oyster soup, roast veal, celery, vegetables, suet pudding. 

Baked pork and beans, boiled codfish, mashed potatoes, pickles, 
apple sauce, corn meal, suet pudding. 

Baked fish with nice gravy, vegetables, lemon pie. 

Oyster pie, beefsteak, vegetables, Eve's pudding. 

Roast chicken, vegetables, cranberry or apple pie. 

Boiled lamb, baked potatoes, pickled beets, rich pudding. 

Roast pork with apple sauce, vegetables, batter pudding with 
"foam sauce." 

Scallop made from cold meat, vegetables, blow-ups. 



Royal Baking Powder is better than cream tartar. 



Wall Papw 



-AND- 



OTTIR, TRUSTS , 



ONLY ARE SOLD aT 



Siemon Brothers, 



34 East Berry Street, 



PORT WAYNE. 



MeCulloeh & Riehey, 



FANCY 



F F 

IF 



< 



IK GOODS 



Refrigerators, d£c. 



105 Columbia St. 



MemPm IK&mmgg! HaHiraun* 



THE REMEDY FOR CDRIN<; 



Consumption, Coughs, Bronchitis, Asth- 
ma and Croup. 

As an Expectorant it has no Equal, 

It is composed of the active principles of roots and plants, which are chemically extracted, 

go as to retain all their medical qualities. 

]VEI3Sri:STJBRS -A.3XT.D PUBLIC SPEAKERS, 

who are so often afflicted witb throat diseases, will find a sure remedy in this balsam. Loz- 
enges and waters sometimes give relief; but the balsam, taken a tew times, will insure a per- 
manent cure. Will all t.hose afflicted witb coughs or consumption read the following, and 
learn the value of 

▲Ilea's ijiiii^ H^lsatm* 

"What the Doctors Say- 
Amos Woolly, M. D., of Kosciusko Co., Indiana, says, " For three years past I have used 
Allen's Lung Balsam extensively in my practice, and I am satisfied tbat tUere is no better 
medicine tor Inug diseases in use. 

Isaac R. Doran, M. D , of Logan Co., Ohio, says. " Allen's Lung Balsam not only sells rapidly 
but gives perfect satisfaction in every case within my knowledge. Having confidence in it, 
and knowing it possesses valuable medical properties, 1 freely use it in my daily practice, and 
with unbounded success. As an expectorant, it is most certainly far ahead of any prepara- 
tion I have ever yet known." 

Nathaniel Harris, M. 0., of Middlebury, Vermont, says, " I have no doubt it will soon be- 
come a classical remedial ageut for the cure of diseases of the throat, bronchial tubes, and the 
lungs." 

Dr. Lloyd, of Ohio, surgeon in the army dining the war, from exposure, contracted con- 
sumption. Hesays, "I have no hesitancy in stating that it was by the use of your Lung 
Balsam that I am now alive and enjoying health." 

Dr. Fletcher, of Missouri, says, "I recommend your balsam in preference to any other 
medicine for coughs; and it gives satisfaction. 

IDIR,. -A.. Ij. SOOYILL, 

who haH for many years been known to the public throughout the United Stales as the 
inventor id' remedies for the lungs, recommends Allen's Lino Balsam as surpassing any 
thing that has everheen offered to 'the public for the cure of lung diseases. He has used it in 
his own family with great success, in the case ot his sister, who was supposed to be in the last 
stages of consumption. This lady is now well, and has been permanently cuied by its use. 

Physicians who have failed to cure their patients should, try this medicine before they give 
the case up, as we know very many valuable lives have been saved by being persuaded to give 
it atral. 

DON'T DESPAIR because all other remedies have tailed ; but try this remedy, and you 
will not be deceived. It will cure when others fail. Directions accompany each bottle. 

J. IM. HARRIS * CO., 

Sole Proprietors. CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

For sale by Meyer Bros. & Co., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 



SUTERMEISTER, BECKER & BOND, 

Architects and Contractors, 



DEALERS IN 



BUILDING STONES, 

MARBLE MONUMENTS, 

GRAVE STONES. 



MANUFACTURERS AGENTS FOR 



MANTELS AND GRATES. 

Corner Main and Fulton Streets, 

FORT WAYNE, - - INDIANA. 
HOFFMAN BROS., 

MANUFACTURERS OK 

Black Walnut Lumber 

BAND SAW MILLS, 

Cor. Main & VanBuren Sts., FORT WAYNE, INK- 



H. N, GOODWIN 



DEALER IN 



DRY GO ODS, 

Staple and Fancy Notions, Hosiery, &c„ &c, 

1 20 Broadway, 

Fort Wayne, - - Indiana. 

John M. Frietzsche, M. D., 

HOMOEOPATHIST. 

Office and Residence, 152 Griffith St., second door South 
of the Western Public School. 

Fort Wayne, - Indiana. 

Treats Acute and Chronic Diseases. Particular great care 
will be taken in Childrens' Diseases. Keeps constantly a full sup- 
ply of pure Homoeopathic medicines on hand and furnishes or 
refills medicine cases or single vial, &c. 

F. W. UNDERHILL, T o - J. E. CONGDON, 

Late of Underhill Bro. & Co. lo Lateunlh Underhill Bro. & Co. 

WmdevMM & Qomgdom, 

monumental, avestone, Marble 

And Granite Works, 

185 Broadway, - Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Dealers in Foreign and American Marble and Granite Monuments, Grave" 
stones, Cabinet Slabs, Urns, Vases, Corner Posts, &c; also 

Marble Burial Vaults Furnished to Order. 

' Have you buried a friend that you wish to erect marble or granite for ? If 
so, please examine our designs, quality of stock, workmanship and prices before 
purchasing elsewhere. Orders by mail or otherwise promptly attended to. 
F. W. UNDERBILL'S 

Well known practical experience of about TWENTY YEARS in the manu- 
facture and sale of Monuments, Gravestones, &c, having carried on monu- 
mental business in the city of Fort Wayne, and managing partner under the 
firms of Underbill & Mattison, and Underhill & M.irkley, and late of the 
firm Underhill, Bro. & Co., having supplied this city and surrounding country 
and adjoining States with some of the most beautilul Monuments and Grave- 
stones erected therein, thus securing for himself a reputation as a Monumen- 
tal Designer and Builder, which enables us more fully to assure those who 
may favor us with their patronage that satisfaction will be given to all. Call 
and see us at, 185 Broadway. UNDERHILL & CONGDON. 

Nov. 1st, 1873. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 1 7 

Spring and Summer. 

Soup, roast veal, vegetables, rhubarb pie ; fruits and berries are 
always nice for desert. 

Chicken pie, vegetables, tapioca pudding. 

Beef steak, canned tomatoes, asparagus, dried peach roll. 

Baked fish, vegetables, cranberry sauce, cottage pudding. 

Mutton chops, codfish toast, vegetables, maple syrup pie. 

Knuckle of veal stewed with rice, fried potatoes, slewed potatoes, 
lemon pie. 

Boiled fish with egg sauce, meat hash, vegetables, queen of pud- 
dings. 

Roast lamb, new potatoes, lettuce, rhubarb pie. 

Fish chowder, vegetables, cold slaw, baked Indian pudding. 

Lamb stew with potatoes and greens, currant dumplings. 

Veal pot pie, vegetables, salad, batter pudding. 

Veal cutlets, mashed potatoes, horse-radish, lemon pie. 

Roast chicken, vegetables, salad, currant pie. 

Roast beef, omelet of asparagus, vegetables, snow pudding. 

Veal stuffed and roasted, vegetables, love pudding. 

Fish stuffed and baked, vegetables, Winthrop House pudding. 

Summer, 

Rabbit pie, new potatoes, green salad, gooseberry pie. 
Lamb chops, potatoes, string beans, sliced tomatoes, currant pie. 
Fish chowder, vegetables, Virginia pudding. 
Shoulder of veal stuffed, asparagus, potatoes, salad, corn starch 
pudding, with strawberries and cream. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, blackberry batter pudding. 

Chicken pie, vegetables, huckleberry pie. 

Roast lamb, green peas, potatoes, lettuce, custard pie. 

Corned beef, vegetables, cherry pot pie. 

Mutton chops, succotash, tomatoes, potatoes, batter pudding. 

Veal and sago soup, vegetables, cold meat, green corn pudding. 

Roast chicken, vegetables, cocoanut pudding. 

Roast beef, cauliflower, succotash, etc., tipsey pudding. 

Tomato soup, cold sliced beef, vegetables, peach cobbler. 

Fried chicken, vegetables, brown beaver pudding. 



Do not use sour milk with Royal Baking Poivder. 

15 



Il8 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Beefsteak pie, succotash, baked sweet potatoes, every day pud- 
ding. 

Corn and chicken pie, vegetables, huckleberry pudding. 

Lamb chops, vegetables, batter pudding. 

Shoulder of veal stuffed, vegetables, corn starch pudding. 

Veal scallop, vegetables, tapioca pudding. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, green corn pudding. 

Autumn- 

Roast prairie chicken, apple sauce, vegetables, suet pudding. 

Shank end of leg of mutton stewed with rice, stewed tomatoes, 
fried potatoes, peach pie. 

Cold mutton, mashed potatoes browned salad, other vegetables, 
peach cobbler. 

Sirloin of beef roasted, vegetables, porcupine pudding. 

Cold meat, corn oysters, baked stuffed tomatoes, suet pudding. 

Corned beef, cabbage and other vegetables, apple pudding pie. 

Mutton chops, vegetables, acid pie. 

Vegetable soup, cold smoked tongue, baked potatoes, pickles, 
fruit for desert. 

Fish chowder, vegetables, snow pudding. 

Oyster pie, salad, vegetables, queen of puddings. 

Boiled ham, vegetables, baked Indian pudding. 

Fried fish, egg plant, baked cabbage, apple pie. 

Ribs of beef roasted, vegetables, pickles, squash pie. 

Oyster soup, cold meat, vegetables, love pudding. 

Baked pork and beans, vegetables, boiled Indian suet pudding. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, cocoanut pie. 

Spare rib of pork, apple sauce, vegetables, pumpkin pie. 

Boiled chops, vegetables, Winthrop House pudding. 

Young goose parboiled and then roasted, mashed potatoes, apple 
sauce, cold slaw, suet pudding. 

Breakfasts. 

Beef hash, corn bread, stewed tomatoes, toast. 
Cold roast beef, fried potatoes, apple sauce and biscuit. 
Pried ham and eggs, stewed apples, hominy and bread. 
Mutton chops, fried potatoes, Graham gems. 



Eggs are saved by using Royal Baking Powder, 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. II9 

Meat croquets, toast, omelette, berries. 

Cold meat, rice cakes, warmed over potatoes, cold bread. 

Fresh eggs boiled,. fried potatoes, muffins, sauce. 

Broiled ham, corn bread, sliced tomatoes, toast. 

Broiled chicken, toast, omelette and jelly. 

Broiled mackerel, potatoes warmed up, sliced tomatoes and John- 
ny cake. 

Corn cake, pork chop, fried apples and Graham bread. 

Sausage cakes, boiled potatoes and bread cakes. 

Fried Indian mush, ham broiled, poached eggs, bread- 
Minced chicken, buckwheats, boiled eggs, potatoes warmed over 
in milk. 

Veal cutlets, muffins, fresh strawberries. 

Corned cold beef, cabbage chopped fine and wanned over with 
vinegar and butter, French rolls. 

One of the "Breakfast Dishes," under "Made Dishes," in this 
book, stewed potatoes, muffins and sauce of some kind. 

Cold meat, French toast, baked potatoes, berries. 

Fried fish, potatoes, salad and biscuit. 

Minced veal, toast rice and sliced oranges. 

Codfish balls, stewed potatoes, gems, lettuce or radishes. 

Broiled mackerel, fried mashed tomatoes, Johnny rake, lettuce or 
radishes. 

Lamb chops, muffins and tomatoes. 

Beefsteak, tomatoes, Graham bread, apple sauce. 

Scrambled codfish, baked potatoes, bread and berries. 

Boiled eggs, warmed over potatoes, toast, lettuce or radishes. 

Fried liver, potatoes, biscuit or muffins. 

Codfish and potatoes warmed together, Graham gems, sliced to- 
matoes. 

Poached eggs, baked potatoes, bread and berries. 

Pork chops, fried apples, baked potatoes, Graham bread. 



Royal Baking Powder is the best in use. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



SUNDRIES. 



Liniment- 

This has often given relief in rheumatism, pain in the side, stiff 
neck and other cases of severe pain when other applications have 
failed. To Volatile Liniment (made by mixing four spoonfuls of 
sweet oil with two of spirits of ammonia) add one of spirits of cam- 
phor and one of laudanum. It will be more efficacions if the parts 
affected can be thoroughly heated after it has been well rubbed in. 
— [Miss Martha Hough. 

Palatable Castor Oil. 

If the nauseous stuff must be given, the bad taste may be removed 
by boiling it with twice the quantity of milk, sweetened a little with 
sugar, to be taken when cool enough. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

Furniture Polish (excellent) 

One-half pint boiled linseed oil, one gill vinegar, one ounce but- 
ter of antimony, put the three liquids in a bottle and shake. Sat- 
urate a piece of flannel cloth or cotton batting and apply a thin 
coating over the part to be cleansed and then rub off again. Dry 
thoroughly with a dry soft rag. — [Mrs. C. L. Smith. 

To Cleanse Silk or "Woolen Goods. 

One pint of alcohol, one of Orleans molasses, one of soft soap. 

Put the ingredients in a bottle or jug, let it stand twenty-four hours, 
shaking well before using; have your goods ripped and well shaken, 
then lay it on a smooth surface, take a sponge, dip it in the liquor, 
rub it thoroughly on both sides. Have two pails of hot rain-water, 
take each piece as soon as it is well rubbed, hold it by the corners 
and rinse it up and down first in one pail and then in the other, 
hang it over a smooth stick to drain, then proceed in the same way 
until each piece is cleansed. Iron when half dry. Turn down the 
corner of each piece so that you can tell which is the right side 
when it is wet. — [Mrs. S. J. McKenzie. 

To Clean Black Silk. 

Take two old black kid gloves, put them in a quart of water and 
boil to a pint, sponge the dress thoroughly and iron on the wrong 
side. 



None is as good as the Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



To Restore Lustre to Black Silk- 
Pare and slice two raw potatoes of ordinary size into half a pint 
of water and let thcrn stand all night. In the morning sponge the 
silk with the water not wetting too much, and iron on the wrong 
side. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

To Clean Kiel tiloves- 

Have a piece of common brown soap, a little milk (sweet), and 

a piece oi~ flannel. Draw the glove on the hand, just moisten the 
flannel in the milk, rub il on the soap, and then apply briskly to 
the glove, rubbing afterward with a dry flannel. Take a portion 
of the glove at a time. Is best for any shade of lemon. Have 
made such look as good as new. — [" Mignon." 

Wash for the Skin- 

This will remove tan, freckles or moth patches without injury to 
the skin. Take quarter of an ounce of pulverized borax, the same 
of pulverized saleratus, two ounces of muriate of ammonia. Put the 
ingredients into a tin pan and pour on four quarts of boiling soft 
water, stir until melted. When used apply with a sponge. It 
makes a nice wash in summer by putting a half teacup of it in the 
water in which you wash. — [Mrs. W. S. Buck. 

For Restoring the Hair. 

One ounce glycerine, one ounce sage, one ounce flower nut gall, 
one ounce lobelia, half ounce ginger, one teaspoon salt, two ounces 
bay rum. Strain, then bottle and perfume as you please. — [Mrs. 
Jane Moyer. 

* Paint "Whitewash-" 

Slack one bushel of stone lime and mix with it forty gallons of 
water, then add slowly, stirring well, twenty pounds of Spanish 
whiting, seventeen pounds of rock salt and twelve pounds of raw 
sugar; mix thoroughly. Is a good wash for fences, barns, &c. 
Does not wash or rub off easily. — [Mrs. James Hamilton. 

Bluing for Clothes. 

One ounce of Prussian or China Blue, the latter when you can get 
it. Put it into a bottle with one quart of clear rain water and add 
one-quarter ounce of oxolic acid (pulverized). One teaspoonful is 
sufficientl for a large wash. It does not settle as some bluing does, 
— [Mrs. D. B. Strope, Mrs. B. H. Kimball and Mrs. Addie Howard. 



Make a pudding with Boyal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



To Make Hard Soap- 

Pour four gallons ofboiling water on six pounds of sal soda, and 
three pounds of unslacked lime. Stir the mixture well and let it 
settle perfectly clear. It is better to let it stand all night, as 
il ukcs some time for the sediment to settle. When clear, strain 
Mi water, put six pounds of grease with it and boil for two hours, 
stirring most of the time. If it does not seem thin enough, put 
another gallon of water on the grounds, stir and drain off and add 
as is wanted to the boiling mixture. Its thickness can be tried by 
occasionally putting a little on a plate to cool. Stir in a little 
handful of salt just before taking off the fire. Have a tub ready 
soaked to prevent the soap from sticking ; pour it in and let it stand 
untii solid, when you will have from the above ingredients about 
forty pounds of nice white soap. — [Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

Mixture for taking Grease out of Carpets or anything else. 

Aijii.i Ammonia 2 oz , soft water 1 quart, saltpetre 1 tcaspoonful, 
shaving soap 1 oz. finely scraped. Mix well, shake and let it stand 
a few hours or days before using, to dissolve the soap. When used 
pom on enough to cover any grease or oil that has been spilled, 
sponging and rubbing well and applying again if necessary ; then 
wash off with clear cold water. An old carpet that was covered 
with grease spots, was perfectly cleaned by this. Use a clean new 
si rubbing brush to apply the mixture on carpets, a sponge for thin- 
ner fabrics. This is " handy to have in the house," as it is good 
for so many things. Is death to bedbugs if put in the cracks and 
crevices which they inhabit ; will even remove paint from a board 
if oil was used in the paint ; will not injure the finest fabrics; is an 
excellent shampoo for the head. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

For Making Ink- 
Ten grains of bi-chromate potash, one-half ounce ext. logwood. 
Dissolve in one quart of rain water. T-eave the bottle uncorked for 
eight or ten days. 

Lime Water for Eggs 
Two gallons of water, one pint of salt, one pint of unslacked 
lime. Do not put in the eggs till the day after the lime water is 
prepared. — [Mrs. John Hough. 



Graham gems are better with a little Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 23 



To Make Soft Soap 

Slice up four pounds of white bar soap into four gallons of soft 
water and add one pound of sal soda. Mix and dissolve it thor- 
oughly over the fire and set aside for use. One-fourth pound of 
borax improves it. — [Mrs. Nettie Lord, Mrs. Smith. 

To Improve Starch- 
Take two ounces of fine gum arabic powder, pour on it a pint or 
more of boiling soft water, cover and let it stand all night, then 
pour off carefully, cork it and keep for use. One tablespoonful in 
a pint of starch. — [Mas. S. B. 

Salve for Burns or Sores- 
One cup of linseed oil, a piece of yellow beeswax the size oi' a 
small egg; let them melt together and come to a boil, then pour off 
in a jar and it is ready for use. Nothing can be better or more 
easily made. — [Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

To Clarif'v Molasses. 

Common molasses can be clarified and made palatable by heating 
it over the fire and pouring in sweet milk in the proportion of one 
pint to a gallon of molasses. When it boils up once the milk col- 
lects all the impurities in a thick scum on the top, which must be 
carefully removed, and the molasses is then fit for use. 

Cornell Beei- 

One hundred pounds of beef, five pounds of salt, two of sugar, 
two ounces of saltpetre, two and one-half gallons of soft water. — 
[Mrs. Jesse Williams, Mrs. John Hough, Mrs. Will Stockbridge, 
Mrs. N. B. Young. 

Corned Beef or Hani. v 

To one hundred pounds of beef, five pounds of salt, live pounds 
sugar, two oz. saltpetre; boil the ingredients together till perfectly 
dissolved, and pour it over the meat when cold. Put in sufficient 
water to cover the meat well. — [Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

Sausage Meat- 

Twelve pounds of pork, four ounces of salt, two ounces <>| pepp< i 
and sage to taste, — [Mrs. John Hough. 



Time is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



124 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



Sausage Meat 

Two pounds of lean meat, one of fat pork, chop fine and mix 
well with it two teaspoons of black pepper, one of cloves, seven of 
powdered sage and five of salt.— [Mrs. James ("aims. 

Corned Seel' 

To eight gallons of water, add two pounds of brown sugar, one 

quart of molasses, four ounces of saltpetre and fine salt until it will 

float an egg. This is enough for two common quantities of beef. — 

Has been repeatedly tried and found very fine. — [Mrs. Jesse Wil- 

hams. 

To Sweeten Pie Plates. 

Place them in a boiler or large kettle of water, throw in a few hot 
ashes or cinders and boil for an hour. It will remove the unpleas- 
ant taste they acquire after much baking in them. 

A Prepaz'ation to Soak Clothes, for Washing, in- 

Heat one pint of soft soap and put in a spoonful of kerosene oil, 
put the clothes in the tub in the evening, put as much water as is 
needed to cover them in the boiler, make it hot, put half of the soap 
into it, stir it up and pour over the clothes, let them stand till morn- 
ing, then have your boiler of water ready, put the remainder of the 
soap in it, wring the clothes out and dry, rubbing any very dirty 
places a little, put them into the boiling water, just let them boil 
up once, then take them out and rinse in two waters. Have tried 
this and know it to be excellent. 

Earth for House Plants 

Equal parts of soil from the sides of a barnyard, well rotted ma- 
nure, leaf mold from the woods or earth from the inside of an old 
tree or stump ; add a quantity of sand. 

To Clean Hair Brushes- 
Dissolve a lump of soda in cold water and wash the brush with it ; 
do not set it near the fire nor in the sun to dry, but after shaking it 
well set it up on the point of the handle in a shady place. 

Wash for Cleansing Gentleuiens' Clothes 

Alcohol four ounces, ammonia three ounces, rain water two 
ounces, pearlash two ounces, and three teaspoons of castile soap. — 
[Mrs. C. B. Brokaw. 



Royal Baking Powder is better than cream tartar and soda. 



P. S. UNDERBILL. ELLIOT SMITH. 

UNDERHILL & SMITH, 

(Successors to Underfill!, Bro. & Co.) 

Established by P. S. UNDERHILL in the Year 1857. 

DEALERS IN 

Foreign and American Marble, 

AND 

Scotch Granite Monuments, Tombstones 

&c, &c, &e. 

No. 74 West Main Street, 

FORT WAYNE INDIANA 

D. D. WISELL. THOS. B. AUSTIN. 

WISELL, & AUSTIN, 



Columbia Street, 

OVER STOGKBRIDGE'S BOOKSTORE, 

FORT WAYNE, - - INDIANA. 
MORGAN & BEACH, 

JOBBERS AND DEALERS IN 

fieneral Hardware, 

CUTLERY, FARMERS' AND MECHANICS' TOOLS, NAILS, GLASS, 

RUBBER AND LEATHER BELTING, PACKING, &c. 

87 and SO Columbia Street, 

g^^SS^S: FORT WAYNE. 

Physician and Surgeon. 

No. 82 Calhoun Street, 
FORT WAYNE, - - INDIANA 



Jj 



Foster Bros. & Co., 



OENKKAL DKAJLKK.S IN 



)EI GOOD 



A 



D 



\J L 



V 



And House Furnishing Goods. 

Invite your particular attention to their very large assortment of new and 
seasonable 

Dress Goods, Shawls, Water-Proofs, 

Blankets, Cassimeres, &e., 

Also an immense stock of 

Hoop Skirts, Corsets, Hamburg Edgings, Guipure Laces, 
Hosiery, Gloves, Braids, Haadker chiefs, &c. 

In our 

CARPET DEPARTMENT 

Will be found everything new and desirable in 

Tapestry and Body Brussels, Hartford and Lowell Wool Oar- 
pets, Oil Cloths, Rugs, Mats and Mattings. 

Buying our goods in large quantities for 

FI^IE IL^IE^GKE STORES 

Enables us to oft'er our customers superior advantages in low prices, be- 
sides our Carpet Department being situated over our Dry Goods 
Store, it does not cost us a penny of rent, so if we sell 
at 5c a yard profit, it is so much clear gain. 

Great New York City Store, 



94 Columbia Street, 



L 



John Gray Foster, 1 M „. v Vnrt 
Scott Foster, '^ew \oik. 

Hobt. W. Murphy, Fort Wayne. 



Fort Wayne, Ind- 



IDTTIRrsriE.A.S' 

Satin Gloss Starch, 

In Six Pound Slide Cover Boxes and in One Pound Papers. 

Try it. Gives a Beautiful White and Glossy Finish, 

besides renders Fabrics Durable. No other Starch 

so easily used, or so economical. 

USE IT AT ONCE AND YOU WILL USE NO OTHER. 

The following awards of Prize Medals attest it is the lust in the world, the 
"PERFECTION OK QUALITY.'' 



Great Paris Exposition, 1867 ; Great International Exposition, 

London, 1862; Great International Exposition, Hamburg, 

1863; Great International Exposition, Cologne, 1865; 

Exposition Maritime, de Havre, 1863, 

Also at American Institute, Maryland Institute, Agricultural 

and States' Fairs. 

When Starch is pure it is free from Sourness, and is purely White. Interior Starch has h 
Golden or Yellow Tinge, the color of Hour, indicating the presence of gluten (not desirable in 
nue's linen.) It is absurd for the Laundress to cleanse and bleach, and then Discolor linen 
with Impure, Golden, or Yellow Starch. 

Duryeas" Improved Corn Starch. 

Made with great rare from the Choicest White Corn. For Sale by Grocers generally. 
None Genuine without "DURYEAS"' on every Package, 

CERTIFICATE. -Duryeas' Improved Com Starch. As an article of food under the different 
modes of preparation specified, it. affords many deli< ate, nourishing, attractive, and palatable, 
dishes. It is especially adapted to the use of invalids; its solubility indicating that it wili be 
easily assimulated by deranged organs, which would reject other forms of vegetable diet, and 
it may be substituted for sago, arrow root, and other such like bodies, with advantage. 

16 Boylston Street, Boston. A. A. HAYES, M. D., 

Consulting Chemist, State Assayer. 

Full Directions for its use, in Pamphlet, will be mailed Free of Charge, by addressing the 
( lompany, as above or 

WM. DURYEA, General Agent, 

29, 31 and 33 Park Place, N. Y. City. 



STANDARD 



DR. D. JAYFE'S FAMILY MEDICINES 

■Are prepared with great care, expressly for Family Use, and are so admirably 
calculated In preserve health and remove disease, that no family should be without 
ih( in. They consist of 

Jayne's Expectorant, 

For (nils, Cpugha, Asthma, Consumption and nil Pulmonary anrl Bronchial Affections. It 
promotes expectoration and allays inflammation. 

Jayne's Tonic Vermifuge, 

For Worms, Dyspepsia, Piles, General Debility, Ac. An excellent Tonic for children, and a 
beneficial remedy in many of the ailments of the young. 

Jayne's Carminative Balsam, 

For Bowel and Summer Complaints, Colic, Cramps, Cholera, Ac. A certain cure for Diarrhea, 
Cholera Morbus and Inflammation of the Bowels. 

Jayne's Alterative 

Of established efficiency in Purifying the Blood and for curing Scofula Goitre, Dropsy, Salt 
Rheum, Epilepsy, Cancers aud Diseases of the Skin and Bones. 

Jayne's Ague Mixture. 

For the cure of Fever and. Ague, Intermittent and Remittent Fevers, &c. These distressing 
complaints are very generally eradicated by this remedy, when taken strictly as directed. 

Jayne's Liniment or Counter Irritant, 

For Sprains, Bruises, Soreness in the Bones or Muscles, Rheumatism, aud useful in all cases 
where an external application is required. 

Jayne's Sanative Pills, 

A valuable Purgative and a certain cure for all Bilious Affections, Liver Complaints, Costive- 
ness, Dyspepsia aud Sick Headache. 

Jayne's Hair Tonic, 

For (he Preservation, Beauty, Growth and Restoration of the Hair. A pleasant dressing for 
the hair aud a useful toilet article. 

Jayne's Specific for the Tape Worm 

A certain, safe anil prompt remedy. 

In settlements and localities where the attendance o/' a physician cannot be readily 
obtained, families will find these remedies of great serrice. The directions which accom- 
pany them are in plain, unprofessional la nguage, easily understood by all; and, in addi- 
tion, Jayne's Medical Almanac, and Ifuide to Health, to be had gratis of all agents, con- 
tains, besides a reliable Calendar, a ( 'atalogne of all Diseases, the Symptoms by ivhich 
they man be known, together with advice as to the proper remedies to be used. 

All of Dr. D. Jayne & Son's Family Medicines are sold by Deal- 
ers and Druggists everywhere. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 125 

Cheap and Nice Vinegar- 

Save the parings and cores of apples, put them in ajar with warm 
rain water enough to little more than cover them, set in a warm 
place for several days, then strain and add one pint of molasses to 
a gallon of the water, put in a jar, tie a thin cloth over it, keep in 
a warm place, and in from one to two weeks you will have good 
vinegar. — [Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

To Take out Ink- 

Dip the spots in pure melted tallow, wash out the tallow and the 
ink will come out. 

Directions for Dyeing Cotton- 

Blue — One ounce Prussian blue, half ounce oxolic acid to one 
and a half pounds of rags. Dissolve the acid in rainwater first, then 
the Prussian blue in the acid water, have the water warm but not 
let it boil ; rinse in cold water and dry in the shade. 

Yellow — To five pounds of rags, twelve ounces of sugar of lead, 
dissolve in a tub of cold water, six ounces of bichromate of potash, 
dip the cotton first in the sugar of lead, wring out, then dip into 
the potash water, then in the lead, and so on till you have a bright 
color ; dry and wash in suds. 

Green — First dip in the yellow, then in the blue until you have 
the desired color. 

Orange — Dip the yellow into boiling hot lime water, put a lump 
of lime as big as your fist into a pail of water, let it settle, dip off 
the top and dip your cloth in it and rinse in cold water. 

Pink — One pound of madder, one ounce of alum, steep the mad- 
der, dip the cloth in the alum water and boil in the madder ; wash 
in soap suds. 

Brown — Gum catchu, one pound; blue vitriol, nine ounces; bi 
chromate of potash, three ounces; this will color five pounds of 
goods ; boil the gum and vitriol together two hours, then add the 
bichromate of potash. 

For Woolen Goods- 
Black — For two pounds of yarn, one pound of logwood chips or 
two and a half ounces of extract of logwood, one ounce of bichro- 
mate of potash ; let it lay in the potash water and simmer one hour, 
take it out, let it drain, then rinse, put it in logwood dye and sim- 
mer one hour, rinse and dry, then wash in soap suds. 

Do not use sour milk with Royal Baking Powder. 

16 



126 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Cochineal — In a kettle of soft water put one ounce of powdered 
cochineal, let it boil a few minutes, then pour in one ounce of solu- 
tion of tin, two ounces of cream tartar, stir well and let it boil a 
short time, then dip in one pound of the goods while boiling, let it 
lay two hours, airing it often. — [Mrs. M. Hamilton. 

To Take Out Fruit Stains- 
Dip the garment in milk, dry it and then wash it. — [Mrs. Ninde. 
Iron Mould and. Ink Spots. 

Wet the spots with milk and then cover with common salt, wash- 
ing the garment afterward. 

Cement- 
When an iron vessel, stove or stovepipe is cracked, the opening 
may be stopped with a cement made of ashes, salt and water. 

To Make Bad Butter Good- 
Put it into a large dish with a very little baking soda, pour plenty 
of soft water over it and let stand several hours, then work thor- 
oughly so as to wash out the milk, then break into small pieces, put 
them into another bowl, pour on cold water, work it a short time, 
and then salt it a little and put away for use. — [Mrs. B. H. 

To Purify Rancid Lard- 
Take an ounce or two of chloride of soda and put into a gallon 
of soft water ; when it is nearly boiling hot put your lard in and let 
it boil from one to two hours, according to the quantity you have, 
then take it off and set aside to cool ; when cold take the lard off 
the water, give it a boil by itself in the usual way, let it cool again 
and your lard will be sweet. — [Mrs. S. B. 

To prevent shoes from creaking rub a little olive oil on the sole, 
especially about the waist and ball of the shoe. In boots intended 
for out of door wear, avoid letting the oil get into the seams as it 
might dissolve the wax on the thread and cause leakage. 
Chlorine water will take out ink spots. 

To Relieve Asthma. 
Soak blotting or brown paper in strong saltpetre water. Dry 
and burn at night in your bedroom, or any time when suffering from 
the disease, Keep the room closed so that the patient can inhale 
the smoke from it. — [Aunt Ann. 

■Egg s ar e saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



127 



Antidotes to Poison. 

For any poison, swallow instantly a glass of cold water with a 
heaping teaspoonful of common salt and one of ground mustard 
stirred in. Is a speedy emetic. When it has acted, swallow the 
whites of two raw eggs ; if you have taken corrosive sublimate, take 
half a dozen raw eggs besides the emetic; if laudanum, a cup of very 
strong coffee ; if arsenic, first the emetic and then half a cup of 
sweet oil or melted lard. 

To Color Black- 
To one pound of cloth one ounce extract of logwood, half ounce 
blue vitriol, let it scald in the vitriol water twenty minutes, take it 
from the vitriol, rinse it, saving the water, let it scald in the log- 
wood water half an hour, then take it out and air well, then add the 
vitriol water to the logwood and let the cloth scald fifteen minutes 
longer. It will not rub off. 

A very pretty stripe for a carpet is made by taking two contrast, 
ing or some bright color and white (we have crimson and white) cut- 
ting the rags in pieces five inches long and sewing the colors alter- 
nately, get the weaver to be a little careful in weaving it and make 
into clouds or steeples — we like clouds the best. It is very pretty 
when just woven in as it comes. I have one strip that I tied the 
skeins of white rags with new unbleached factory for two or three 
inches, with intervals of six or seven inches, then dyed it dark blue. 
It is very pretty and not much work. 

To Dye Blue — For eight pounds of rags, make a strong solution 
of one pound of alum, dip the rags in first, then a few at a time i n 
a small quantity of water containing Prussian blue, then add a 
little moie of the blue to this water and to this water dip a few more 
rags and so on. Required about eight ounces of Prussian blue. 
It is is much better than using oxalic acid so set the color. It is 
cheaper, more durable and of a brighter color, and the acid wil^ 
injure the goods. 

To Dye Yellow — For eight pounds of rags take five ounces of 
bi-chromate of potash and seven ounces of sugar of lead. Dissolve 
the bi-chromate over night in warm water, warm the dye, dip first 
in the sugar of lead solution, four gallons of water for each. 



Royal Baking Powder is the best in use. 



128 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Dyeing Green — Dye the rags first blue, then yellow : or, for a 
different shade, reverse. 

A Dark Tan Color — To five pounds of cloth, one pound of japon- 
ica, eight ounces bichromate of potash, two tablespoonfuls of alum- 
Dissolve the japonica and alum in soft water enough to cover the 
goods. Wash the goods in suds and put them in the dye; let them 
stand two hours at scalding heat, then set them aside until the next 
morning with the goods in the dye. Dissolve the bichromate of 
potash in soft water to cover the goods, put them in and let them 
remain an hour at scalding heat, air them and wash in soft water 
suds and dry. 

Cochineal — -To one pound of yarn stir briskly into water enough 
to cover it, one ounce of cream of tartar. When the heat has in- 
creased a little add two ounces of powdered cochineal, stir well, 
add two ounces solution of tin; when the liquid boils put in the 
goods and move it around briskly for twenty minutes, rinse well in 
cold water. — Inter- Ocean. 



The following recipes were given the compiler by an experienced 
druggist : 

Iiiniment for Burns and Scalds- 
Oil of sweet almonds one ounce, lime water two ounces ; mix 
and apply with camel hair pencil, then cover with cotton batting. 
It is excellent. 

Old Remedy for Whooping Cough. 
Salts tartar, pulverized cochineal, each twenty grains; sugar, six- 
teen grains; water, four ounces. Mix. Dose for an infant, one-half 
teaspoonful ; for a child one to three years old, one teaspoonful. 

Liniment for Rheumatism, Sprains, Gout, fee- 
Oil origanum, oil cedar, oil hemlock, chloroform, laudanum 
tincture capsicum, each one ounce: alcohol, eight ounces. 

None is as good as the Royal Baking Powder. 



TO. E. Griffiths <£ Co. ? 



DEALER IN 



House Furnishing Goods, 

Nails, Cutlery, Carpenters' and Cabinet Makers' Tools, Glass' 

White Lead, Rope, and all Goods usually kept 

in a First-Olass Hardware Store. 



Bo. 122 Broadway, 



Fort Wayne, Ind. 



< 



L 



J 



< 



V 



u 



(OFFIGE WITH DR. J. S. GREGG.) 

Corner Calboun & Main Sts., over Wooster, Williams & Co.'s Drug Store, 

Fort Wayne, Ind. 



FOR THE LADIES. 

First Premium awarded ladies' hair combings put up, roots together, 
and the only place where it is done is at 

MRS. P. KLIX'S, 

Corner Calhoun and Columbia Sts. Entrance on Calhoun. 



Fort Wayne. 



Indiana. 



This lady warr; nts all work and material. Also, colors hair 
all shades. AH wor!. intrusted to her will receive prompt atten- 
tion. 



Stanley, Bieber & Co., 



O-^IRIEtlllJLGKE] 




MANUFACTURERS, 



No. 13© West Main St., 



Port "\7l7 r a,37"XXo, Ixxci- 



J\ &c IF. PIERR, 



DEALERS IN 




illirjery & 




ress 




Parties who like to get a Bonnet or Hat put up in the 



VERY LATEST STYLE, 

And at prices JTar below any other, would do well to call at J. & 
P. Pierr. The lady manager, late from New York City, with 15 
years experience, surpasses all expectation, and their stock of Mil- 
linery and Dress Goods is second to none; they also, keep a full 
line of Notions, Shawls, Woolen Yarns, Zephyr, and Blankets, 

Fort Wayne, Calhoun St. 



SHOAFF & BERST'S 




Photographs in Ink, Water Colors, Crayon or Oil. 

Hs^t li«p Mmw illifiii 1© to 12 

Use light colors for children, elderly people, dark. Old pictures 
copied and enlarged. Pictures handsomely framed. More than 
1000 babies photographed annually. 

All Pictures with Berlin Finish. 



S. A. AURENTZ 



Favors his freindswith 



it fiimii 



Dried and Canned Fruits, Salt, Fish, Pork, Ham, Smoked and 
Dried Meats, Oats, Corn, and Mill Feed, Tobacos, Cigars, Nails, 
Fresh and Cove Oysters, &c. 

S- JE» Cor, Broadway & Jefferson, Sts., 

FORT WAYNE, IBID. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 29 



Diarrhea and Cholera Mixture. 

Tincture rhubarb, capsicum, peppermint, laudanum, each one 
ounce ; French brandy, half pint. Dose, one teaspoonful. 
Lotion for Children- 
Muriate ammonia half ounce, water four ounces, muriate acid one 
drachm, alcohol one and a half ounces. Mix and apply morning 
and evening. 

Eye Wash. 
Sulphate of zinc five grains, sugar of lead thirty grains, rosewaler 
three ounces. Mix and apply frequently with soft linen cloth. 
For Toothache- 
Chloroform one and a half ounce, fluid extract of aconite one 
drachm, alcohol one ounce, morphine eight grains. Mix and moist- 
en with the solution cotton enough to fill the cavity. 
For a Hectic Cough- 
Take the yolks of three eggs, with it three spoonfuls of honey and 
one of tar; beat well together, add one gill of wine. Take a tea- 
spoon three times a day before eating. — [Mrs. James Cairns. 

For Sore Imngs- 

Drop three drops of tar on a lump of sugar, and take three times 
a day before eating. — [Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

An " Expectorant," 

Take two tablespoonfuls of unground flaxseed, boil it in a pint ot 
water down to a cup full, sweeten with honey or loaf sugar and add 
as much ipecac as would cover a three cent piece. Take a table- 
spoonful every half hour until the cold is loosened. — [Aunt Ann. 

Cure for Colds and Croup 

Elecampane root steeped and boiled down with honey is an ex- 
cellent remedy for colds and croup. 

To Cleanse Foul Casks, 

Fill them with meal or bran, and water, and let them stand till 
fermentation takes place. It will entirely cleanse them without 
expense, as you can use the mixture for swine. 



Make a pudding with Royal Baking Powder. 



130 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



To Cleanse Bed Ticks- 
Apply Poland starch by rubbing it on thick with a wet cloth. 
Place it in the sun. When dry rub it in with the hands. Repeat 
if necessary. 

Cure for Sore Throat- 
Inhale through a tunnel the steam of hot vinegar in which sago 
leaves have been steeped. 

Croup- 
Give an emetic as soon as possible, immerse the feet in warm 
water, put a poultice of yellow snuff mixed with goose oil upon the 
stomach. Sweet oil will answer. Apply a number of thicknesses 
of flannel wet in hot water, over the windpipe, as hot as it can be 
borne. Change as often as it cools. Place onion poultices upon 
the feet when taken out of the water. 



HINTS THAT HAVE BEEN GIVEN BY EX- 
PERIENCED HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Rub rough flat-irons with fine salt and it will make them smooth, 
or tie yellow beeswax in a cloth, and when the iron is nearly hot 
enough to use, rub it quickly with the wax and then with a coarse 
cloth, and somebody else says, who has tried it and "knows that 
whereof she affirms," that sand-paper is superior to salt or beeswax. 
Take your choice. 

A small piece of sponge is nice to grease pans or plates for baking 
with. 

When eggs are frozen put them in boiling water instead of cold, 
and the yolks will not be hard. 

Graham gems are better with a little Royal Baking Powder. 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 31 



Try the freshness of eggs by putting them in a pan of cold water. 
Those that sink the soonest are the freshest. Always drop hard 
boiled eggs in cold water so that the yolks will not turn black. 

Stir a hot custard with a twig from a peach tree that has a few 
leaves on it, and it will flavor it nicely. 

Save peach kernels from fresh peaches and dry them. Are nice 
to mix a few of them with sweet almonds for cake. 

Rub your griddle with fine salt before you grease it and your 
cakes will not stick. 

A lump of hard soap is good to stop rat holes up with. 

Oat straw is best for filling beds. 

Besides tea leaves and soap and water for dirt spots, common salt 
sprinkled on before sweeping will make an old carpet look bright 
and fresh. 

A spoonful of vinegar put in the water in which meats or fowls 
are boiled makes them tender. 

Immerse fresh meat in buttermilk, wash it off good when used. 
You can keep it several days, not changing the milk unless very 
sour. Sour milk will answer the purpose. 

A tablespoonful of corn starch is a substitute for one egg. 

A little carbonate of soda put in the water in which meat or 
fowls are boiled will make them tender. 

Strew ground coffee on a shovel of coals and it will clear the 
house of offensive odors. 

If a sponge becomes dry and hard, soaking in milk will make it 
all right again. Buttermilk is still better. 

Aqua ammonia will drive away warts. 

To keep lemons, put them in cold water, changed every week ; 
this will also add to the juice. 

To wash fruit stain from the hands rub with sorrel, rhubarb 
stocks, lemon juice, apple or tomato skins, or cream tartar water. 

Odors from boiling ham, cabbage, &c, may be prevented by 
throwing a few pieces of charcoal into the pot. 

Charcoal powder put into the water in which cut flowers are 
placed, will preserve them much longer. Placing them in wet sand 
will also preserve them a long time. 



Time is saved by using Royal Baking Powder. 



132 



HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



To destroy grass in gravel walks, scatter coarse salt along the 
edges and wherever the grass is springing. 

To kill flies, dissolve two drachms of quassia in half a pint o* 
boiling water ; sweeten and pour on plates. 

Green hickory bark will scatter ants. 

Never cook tomatoes, or any thing acid, in iron. 

Do not let coffee or tea stand in tin. 



THE END. 



Royal Baking Powder is better than cream tartar and soda. 



W. JACOBS & SON, 



DEALERS IN 



5©©te iii Sh#®»® 



No. W Calhoun Street, 

Opposite Keystone Block. 

THE GREAT HEADQUARTERS 

—IN— 
—FOR— 

Reaflj Made (Milt ai Gents' FaraisMon Goods, 

—IS AT— 

N. B. YOUNG & CO.'S, 

No. 9 East Main Street. 



We have an immense assortment of CHOICE PIECE GOODS, which will be 
made up in the Latest Style under the supervision of John Fower, the popular 
cutter. Fits guaranteed. 

A. MAYER. H. C. GRAFFE. 

MAYER & GRAFFE, 

DEALERS in 

GERMAN AND AMERICAN 
Silver and Silver Plated Ware, 

Gold, Silver, and Ivory Headed Canes, 

No. 22, Old No. 88, Columbia Street. 

Repairing done on short notice, I P'OT?T WAVWF TNfH 

and all work warranted. | rwR1 VVniiNil, Il\l LA 

A Large Assortment of Gold and Silver "Watches kept on hand. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Books and Stationery, 

Photograph Albums and Blank Books, 

CAP, LETTER, NOTE, WALL AND WRAPPING PAPERS, 

17 Columbia Street, Fort Wayne. 
SCHOOL BOOKS OF ALL KINDS AT PUBLISHERS' PRICES. 



New and Only First-Class Gallery in the State ! 
CHAS. E. WAILIN, 

Artistic ItooTOGFtypp, 



18 "West Berry Street, 

FORT WAYNE, - INDIANA. 

No Stairs to Climb ! First Floor Gallery ! 

ONLY PLACE TO GET THE 

GENUINE BERLIN FINISH! 

$3,00 PER DOZEN! 

Copying from Old Pictures a Specialty! 



INK, 

OIL, 

CRAYON and 

WATER COLORS, 



The Best Artist in the Country ! 

N. B. — No connection with any other Gallery. 



INSURE! INSURE! INSURE! 
YOUR LIiF IE ! 

—IN THE— 

FOR YOUR INSURANCE WILL 

COST YOU LESS CASH 

Because its surplus is LARGER, and its average ratio of expense LESS than 
any other Company. 

On the ist of January, 1873, it had paid out for losses on 

claims by dealh, * X c -, 2I g I4 g- 

And to Policy Holders, as Dividends, .' '" ' ig'^SS,82$ 41 

W. S. BUCK, District Agent, 
Office over Merck. Nat. Bank, FORT WAYNE IND . 



^HE BEST REMEDY 




inrai Akin HKpiraitti 1 



Elixir of- Pyrophosphate of Peruvian Bark. 

The best Tonic for ladies of delicate health. 

Call for Sample Bottle, corner Calhoun and Berry Sts., 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 



1mm 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 487 365 8 



