Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



I 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



^ D^iiizfdbt Google 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



D^,t,;.dbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



dl\oide ^e(5ei|)t^, 



BEST MANUSCKIPT AUTHOEITIIS, 



id then > the sitnet fluked u 



" Wa DUT lire wllliont ptwtiT, moakt, and ut ; 
We may lire nllbout cDiuciean, mod On without heut; ' 
Ws 01*7 Utb without Mendf, ws msy Ilia wlthoqt booki; 
Bat diUlied mu cmnot lin without cooka.— 
He maj Utb without booka.— wlHt 15 knawledgi bat gitntncT 
Ha m^ Uts without hope,— what la hope but dccelTll«T 
He Duj Utb wllhont lon.^what la pueioti but plnlnf} 
But where la the mui that on lire without dining?" 



FnBLTSHED TOWARD THI ERECTTOH 01 
k OIRL'S SCHOOL. AT -WALLA, WALLA. 



D^,t,;.dUt Google 



(.Ml. H 



1 S- } Jo „,,„„C.oogIc 



Recipe for a Pleasant Dinner Party. 

"A round table, holding eight, 
A hearty welcome aUd little stnte ; 
One dish set on at a time, 
Aa plain as you please, but elwaya prime; 
Beer for asking — and in pewter, 
Servants who don't require a tutor; 
, Talking guests and dumb waiters, 
Warm plates and hot potatoes." 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



PEEFAOE. 



All of the following "choice receipts" have been 
thoroughly tested ; and the most of them taken irom old 
family manuscripts. 

The fiist edition of thia little book, issued in 1872, for 
the benefit of Christ Church Fair, sold so rapidly, that the 
demand iar exceeded the supply ; and in order to accom- 
modate a large number of subsoriberB, it is deemed ad- 
visable to put forth a second and revised edition, cont^ning 
a number of additional receipts — the proceeds of which 
have been donated by tlie compiler toward the eredion of 
a Girl's School at WaUa Walla, Washington Territory. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



RECEIPTS. 



SOUPS. 



Calf's Sead Soup. — Boil until the meat cleaves 
from the bone ; cut in pieces the size of an egg ; 
strain the liquor and add to the meat ; also one dozen 
large onions chopped fine, and fried with butter. 
Season with black pepper, cayenne, and salt; one 
large spoonful each of marjoram, thyme, cloves, and 
mace, (powdered.) Save the brains and boil in a 
cloth by themselves, then mix them ■with browned 
flour, two ounces of butter, and add to the soup, to 
thicken it. For Ealls, three or four pounds of veal, 
chopped fine, with quarter the proportion of salt pork, 
and half the quantity of onions. Season the same 
as the soup, with the addition of two eggs, and two 
crackers pounded fine. Fry in lard. Add catsup 
and wine to the soup, also slices of lemon and hard 
boiled eggs after it is dished. 

Order the calf's head from market with the skin on. 

Qreen Pea Soup. — Four pounds of the knuckle 
1* 6 

D5,l,;.dbt Google 



of veal, one pound of bacon; cut in rather small 
pieces, put it in a soup kettle with five quarts of 
■water. Boil moderately fast, and skim well. When 
boiled to rags, strain and put to tlie liquor one quart 
' of young green peas. Boil until they have quite dis- 
solved and thickened the soup, coloring it green. 
Have ready two quarts of green peas that have been 
boiled in anotlier kettle, with two or three lumps of 
sugar. After they have boiled twenty minutes, put 
the whole in the soup and boil together about ten 
minutes. 

Okra Soup. — Five quarts of water, one and a half 
pounds of beef, five dozen okras cut in thin slices, 
one dozen tomatoes, a teacupful of jice ; salt and 
cloves. The whole must be boiled four hours, and 
then strained through a sieve. 

Oytter Soup. — One quart of oysters, separated 
from the liquor, washed tliorouglily in about a pint 
of water. Strain the liquor and add one quart of 
milk, some mace, nutmeg, and pepper, with three 
crackers pounded fine ; add quarter of a pound of 
butter to the liquor. Boil all together five minutes. 
Add tlie oysters and boil a few minutes 

Mexican Bean Soup. — One pint of beans to two 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



qaart3 of beef stock. Soak the beans over night, 
and boil tliem soft; pass them through a sieve , and 
add the pulp and two sliced onions to the soup. 
When dished, add wine, catsup, lemon, egg, and 
forcemeat balls. 

West India Soup. —Fry one pound of sliced onions 
and a small half loaf of bread in half a pound of 
butter. Put them in seven quarts of water, with a 
shin of beef, a few whole cloves, black pepper, a 
little mace, and sweet herbs. Stir this frequently, 
boiling down one half. When dished, add two glasses 
of red wine. The herbs and pepper should be boiled 
in a bag, the meat and bones to be taken out, but ■ 
nothing strained. 

Tomato Soap. — (Parker House.) — For one gallon 
of soup, take two and a half quarts of good beef soup, 
one medium sized carrot, turnip, beet, and two onions 
peeled and cut in pieces. Boll the vegetables in the 
stock three-quarters of an hour, strain through a 
sieve, but not pass the vegetables through. Add a 
two quart can of tomato, and boil fifteen minutes ; 
strain again, and add salt and pepper. While this 
is cooling, take a copper or iron saucepan that will 
hold about sis quarts, put in quarter of a pound of 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



8 BECEIPTS. 

batter, and heat it a light brown ; add (while hot) 
three tablespoonfula of flour. Take from the fire 
and mix well together. Then add the stock and 
tomato that have been boiled, and mix thoroughly; 
add Due dessert spoonful of sugar, and stir until it 
boils. Boil fifteen minutes and strain. 

Plain Thmato Soup. — Cut in halves half a peck of 
tomatoes and put them in a kettle with just enough 
water to cover them. Boil twenty minutes and 
strain, being particular to get all through except the 
skins and seeds. Cut some pork in pieces an inch 
square, and add pepper and salt, a little «ugar, and 
very little flour. Boil one hour. 

Green Com Soup. — Five hours required to prepare. 
One dozen ears of com ; cut through each row of 
kernels, and cut all off the cobs. Break tlie cobs in 
several pieces and put them into a kettle with just 
enougli water to cover tliem. Let tiiem boil two and 
a half hours. Tate them out and scrape them with 
a knife to remove all the corn, then into the same 
water pour the com and let it boil perfectly tender, 
say one and a half hours. Add salt and a little red 
and black pepper. About half an hour before dinner, 
pour in one pint of cream and one pint of new milk, 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



n3H AND MEATS. 9 

and let it boil well. Remove from the fire and stir 
in untQ dissolved a piece of butter. . Any amount of 
cream improves it. 

Carrot Soup. — Knuckle of veal, 9 carrots grated, 
2 onions, 2 blades of mace, 2 heads of celery ; boil 
three-hours. Strain it, salt and pepper to taste, and 
a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Thielten with a little 
floui" and butter rubbed together, and wine if liked. 

White Soup. — A large knuckle of veal, four quarts 
of water, a little celery seed, two onions, two carrots, 
two turnips ; boil down to two quarts. Strain the 
liquor and let it stand until it is cool. Take off all 
the fat and wipe with a cloUi to be sure it is off. 
Add one pint of new milk or cream, the beaten yolks 
of'three eggs, and a little vermicelli. Let it come to 
a boil. 

It is well t? prepare the broth the day before it is 



FISH AND MEiATS. 
Chowder. — ("Com. Stevens.'') — Four tablespoonr 
fuls of onion fried with pork, one quart of boiled 
potatoes well mashed, one pilot bread and a half, 

D^iiizfdbt Google 



10 BECEIPTS. 

broken, one tablespoonful of summer savory and 
thyme mixed, quarter bottle of catsup, half bottle of 
port or claret wine, half a nutmeg grated, half a 
teaspoonful each of cloves, mace and allspice, one 
teaspoonfnl of red pepper, three teaspoonfuls of black 
pepper, salt, six pounds of bass or cod cut in slices. 
Put the whole in a kettle together, with water enough 
to cover two or three inches. Boil one and a half 
hours, stirring gently. 

Stewed Fish. — Fry a few onions in butter, put the 
fish into the bake pan on top of the onions, add 
pepper, marjoram, thyme, cloves, and catsup, two 
pounded crackers mixed with butter, and not quite 
enough water to cover tlie fish. 

Fish Sauce. — (Grand Hotel, Paris.) — Sajice SoU 
landaise. — Place in a saucepan the yolks of sis eggs, 
and a little pepper. Put tliem in a vessel of water, 
or over a very slow fire ; stir quickly, adding little 
by little one pound of the freshest butter to every six 
eggs. When the butter is melted and mixed, pass 
through a sieve ; add the juice of a lemon, or a little 
vinegar. To keep it hot, return the saucepan to the 
vessel of hot water. 

Bread Satice. — Two slices of stale bread without 



FISH AND MEATB. 11 

any crust ; put them into a saucepan, witli two small 
onions, eight or ten pepper corns, and cold water 
enough to coyer. When it boils, throw away all 
but the bread. Put half a pint of cream into a 
saucepan ; when hot, stir in the bread, after beating 
with a fork. 

Mah a VOrly. — (Blot.) — Bone, akin, and cut the 
fish in pieces. Beat two eggs and a pinch of salt 
bother, and dip each piece of fish in it. Roll iii 
bread crumbs, (browned.) Fry in hot fat ; turn the 
sauce on a platter and lay the fish in it. 

IVir the sauce, half can of tomato in a saucepan, 
with a little onion, two or three stalks of parsley, 
fliyme, one bay leaf, one clove, sis pepper corns, and 
salt ; reduce by boiling to one third. Strain gently 
through a colander and return to the fire, with half 
a spoonful of butter, a little water and flour mixed 
smoothly. 

ISerhci dlailheTne. — In case of turbot, either baas 
or codfish will answer. Boil with plenty of salt, 
remove the akin and bones, and flake it. Boil one 
quart of cream, and wliile boiling, stii in tliree table- 
Bpoonfols of flour, perfectly smooth, and add a bunch 
of parsley and one onion. When boiled, take botli 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



12 RECEIPTS. 

out. Clarify quarter of a pound of butter, and add 
to the cream after it is boiled. Butter a deep dish, 
and put in tirst a layer of iisli, then one of the sauce, 
^terhat«ly, till the dish is filled, making the sauce 
come on top. Strew over a layer of sifted bread 
crumbB, and bake one hour. Garnish the dish with 
chopped eggs or parsley. 

Steamed Oysters. — Put the so^if? oysters into a pan 
with a generous bit of butter, and some salt and 
pepper ; cover tightly, and shake the pan occasion- 
ally. Have ready some dry, toasted bread, buttered, 
and when the oysters are sufficiently steamed and 
plump, turn on to the toast and send immediatelif to 
tlie table. 

Fried Oysters. — Drain large sized oysters, dip them 
in the beaten yolk of an egg, and roll in crumbs, 
(half bread and crackers,) seasoned with a little salt, 
and eayenne pepper. Fry in salt pork fat. 

Fricasseed Oysters. — Fifty very lai^ oysters, 
washed and put in sufficient water to cover tliem. 
Place over a slow fire until quite solid, thoroughly 
cooked without shrinking. Scald and strain half a 
pint of the oyster juice with half an onion, small 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



FISH AKD MEATS. 13 

bnnch of parsley, and a sprig of celery. Add to this, 
(after straining out the vegetables,) quarter of a 
pound of hutter aiil half a pint of thick cream. 
Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed in bufc- 
■ ter and the yolks of three eggs, a little salt and 
cayenne pepper. ■ Drain the oysters, lay them in a 
hot dish and pour the dressing over them very hot, 
just before serving. 

Tliis preparation is also very good used for the 
filling of a vol-aiMjent. 

I/obster. — Prepare the lobster as for salad, only 
cutting it in larger pieces. One tablespoon of flour, 
one of butter, well rubbed together ; the yolk of a 
raw egg, one and a half teaspoons curry powder, a 
little salt and cayenne_pepper, a cup of cream. This 
mixture must he well stirred togetlier and strained 
on to the lobster, taking care not to mash it. Sift 
the yolks of two hard boiled eggs. If too dry add 
more cream. This mixture can be baked on a dish, 
or heated through, making a stew. 

Lobster Outlets. — Boil two good lobsters and take 
out all the meat, mince very fine or pound in a mor- 
tar. Put it in a stew pan, with a small piece of butter, 
Bait and white pepper, a little lemon juice and si^ar. 
2 

D^iiiifdbt Google 



/ 



14 BECEIPTS. 

Set on the fire ; stir until it boils up. Jlemove fi'c:;i 
the fire, add one egg, stirring well. Add anotlier egg 
if the quantity of lobster requires. Set away to cool. 
When cold Bhape it in the form of lamb cutlets, 
brush over with a beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs. 
Use the Bmall red toes of the lobster for a point to 
every cutlet, preaa them up where the bone comes. 
Fry in sweet butter, a light brown. Serre with or 
without gravy 

Torque Stew. — Put a fresh tongue in cold water, 
add three poimds of lean beef ; let it boil four hours ; 
add carrets, potatoes, and other vegetables if desired. 
Brown a little flour to thicken the gravy. One half 
■ glass wine, fifteen or twenty cloves, salt, pepper. 
Strain the gravy to get out all bones, peel the tongue, 
leturu it to the gravy, but take out the beef, and not 
Bend It to tte table. 

Scolloped ClajM.-^—Cbop the soft part of tlie clams ; 
having well cleaned the shells fill the half shells with 
the chopped clams, season with pepper, mace, or nut- 
meg ; spread over the top, bread or cracker crumbs, 
and bits of butter. Bake a few minutes of a light 
brown. 

Chicken Oroquettes. — Mince very fine one cold 



FISH AND MEATS. 15 

chicken and two sweet breads, (previously parboiled,) 
season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg. Take a 
tumbler of cream, two tablespoonfula of butter, four 
of flour, a little salt, mix and boil, then stir into the 
minced meat. When cold take a spoonful of the 
mixture and roll into shape ; dip them in the beaten 
yolk of egg and cracker crumbs, drop into boiling 
lard, cook a light bi-own. This receipt makes one 
and one-half dozen. 

Sweet Breads. — Parboil till quite tender and set 
away to cool. Fry them a nice brown, season with 
pepper (red) and salt. For the gravy half a teacup- 
fill of the thin part of tomato, cooked, two table- 
spoonfuls or more of wine ; thicken with butter- and 
flour ; season with a littl^ pinch of ground cloves, 
allspice, red and black pepper, and salt,' Put back 
in the gravy, stew five minutes ; serve hot. 

OysUr Poi^.— (Philadelphia.)— To fifty oysters, 
(drained,) simmer plump, fifteen or twenty minutes; 
a large quarter of a pound of butter, mised with two 
teaspoonfuls of flour. Stir into the oysters a small 
quantity of nutmeg, the yolks of two well beaten 
e^s, half a teaspoonful of vinegar stirred in the eggs, 
a little parsley chopped fine, red pepper and salt. 



.;-,;-.j 01 Google 



16 BECEIPTS. 

Stir all with the oysters while cooking ten minutes. 
Have ready baked a very fine puff paste, and add this 
to it with a top crust. 

To Itnl a Sam. — Put a moderate sized ham in a * 
pot of cold water and let it simmer ten hours ; then 
let the water boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. Re- 
move, skin the ham, cover with fine cracker crumbs, 
. stick with cloves, and let it brown in the oven. 

Veai Pat4. — ^Three and a half pounds lean, raw 
veal, chopped fine, with a slice of salt pork, two 
eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, (or a piece of butter,) 
sis email, pounded crackers, two spoonfuls pepper, 
one of salt, some marjoram. Form into a loaf. 
Sprinkle tlie top with bread crumbs, and little bits 
of butter. Bake in a pan with a very little water, 
and baste frequently with wine and the water from 
the pan. Bake about two hours. To be eaten cold. 

Veal eu blanqaette. — Two pounds of the breast of 
Teal ; cover with tepid water for one or two hours ; 
drain and vripe with a towel. One ounce of butter 
in a sauce pan with one spoonful of flour, and stir. 
When turning yellow, add the meat, stirring fast, 
and just cover with cold water ; stir, and let it boil 



PISH AND MEATS. IT 

gently ; salt. "TOien underdone, beat the yolks of 
two eggs with a teaspoonful of cold water and mis 
with a spoonful of butter ; turn it to the naeat ; stir 
well and serve. 

A Salad Dressing. — The yolk of a hard-boiled egg, 
the yolk of one raw, one teaspoonful salt, a little red 
pepper, and mustard. Pour in ver^ slowly five table- 
spoonfuls of oil, mixing well. When made to a 
smooth paste, add two spoonfuls of rich cream ; last^ 
ly, one spoonful of vinegar. This -will keep on ice 
several days, 

Chicken Salad. — Roast or boil the chicken with 
salt in the wat«r. Eemove all the skin and fat ; cut 
the meat up fine. For one large chicken, use three 
or four roots of celery. Cut it up in pieces, not too 
fine, and let stand in cold water. Never mix a salad 
until the last moment. For the dressing use the yolks 
of four or six eggs, half hard boiled, salt and mus- 
tard to your taste. Stir in little by little, a flask of 
the very best oil, and add, as you require, one or two 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; lemon juice is better. Mix a 
part of the dressing witli the meat and celery, saving 
some to spread over the whole. 

W,nced Turkey. — Take some cold turkeys or any 



18 RECEIPTS. 

cold fowl, remove the bonea aad sTim, and mince 
fine ; put in a stewpan with a little broth or gravy, 
pepper, salt, a little nutmeg and lemon juice. Have 
ready a dish prepared with a border of mashed po- 
tatoes ; pour the turkey into the middle, and set into 
the oven a few minutes to brown. Garnish with 
slices of lemon and parsley. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 
Boston Baked Beans. — Pick over and put to soak 
three pints of beans, early in the morning. After 
noon put the beans over the fire in cold water, and 
at the first boiling pour off the water, and fill up with 
cold ; repeat three times. At the third boiling re- 
move from the fire, and put the beans into a stone 
crock, with three tahlespoonfuls of -molaBsea, and a 
small piece of salt pork. Cover with boiling hot 
water, and place in the oven to bake all night. Kteep 
the beans covered during the evening with the hot 



Potatoes Fried. — Square fillets, sliced, and drop 
into cold water. Put into boiling fat, and stir occar 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 19 

sionally. When nearly done take out and put in a 
colander ; heat the fat ; return the potatoes. In half 
a minute they are beautifully browned. Turn into 
colander again to drain ; salt and stir them ; serve 
hot. The second time makes them ewell. 

Jtice Ckoquettes. — Four ounces of rice, washed in 
cold water, and put on the fire in three gills of milk ; 
when it boils add a little more milk ; when cooked, 
add two ounces of butter, two oimcea of sugar, and 
mix well ; add two yolks of eggs and mix again ; re- 
turn to the fire one or two minutes ; then spread on 
a dish to cool ; mix a few b,read crumbs, put a spoon- 
ful of rice here and there on the hoard, roll and flat- 
ten each end with a knife ; dip in egg beaten, with a 
pinch of salt and a few drops of water ; roll again in 
crumbs and fry ; dust with sugar. 

Spinach. — Throw in boiling water, at the first boil- 
ing, a little salt ; boil tender ; turn into a colander ; 
then drop immediately into cold water ; turn again 
into a colander and press gently ; chop fine and re- 
turn to the fire with a little butter ; when melted and 
mixed add half a spoonful of flour ; stir again ; then 
add about one gill of gravy, and salt to taste. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil and mash potatoes, then 



beat them with the white of an e^ until frothy ; add 
a generous bit of butter, a few spoonfuls of cream ; 
salt ; strain tlirough a colander and set it in the oven 
a few moments. 

Com Oysters. — One pint of grated green corn, one 
egg well beaten, one tablespoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper, flour enough to make a batter ; 
mix all together, and drop by the spoonful into boil- 
ing lard. 

Green Com Pudding. — Half a dozen ears of green 

sweet corn, scraped from the car, mixed with two 
beaten e^^, two spoonfuls of sugar, one of butter, a 
saltspoon of salt, half a pint of cream (or milk), one 
dozen pounded crackers ; mix well together ; bake 
three hours in a pudding dish, or two hours in cups. 

Eggs d la Creme. — Boil six eggs hard, cut in slices, 
lay in a deep dish, with bread crumbs between eaeli 
layer ; put two ounces of butter with half a table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed into it, in a saucepan ; add 
some parsley, a little onion, salt, pppper, a little nut- 
meg, and half a gill of cream ; stir on the fire until 
it thickens, then pour it over the e^s ; cover the 
top with bread crumbs and bits of butter ; bake a 
light brown. 

D^iiiifdbt Google 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 21 

Omelette. — Six eggs beaten, the whites and yolks 
sepai-ately, one tablespoonful of butter, half a teacup 
of milk, one teaapoonful of flour ; -warm the milk 
enough to melt the butter ; add to it the salt and 
flour ; mix all together ; butter the frying pan with 
a large spoonful of butter, and pour in the batter ; 
when done, turn together and serve. 

Poached Eggs. — Beat six eggs ten minutes ; put 
into an earthen dish that will bear the heat ; one 
spoonful of milk to each egg, and two or three be- 
sides ; a little salt, butter the size of a nut; stir con- 
stantly until done. This makes enough for eight . 
persona. 

Stuffed Eggs. — (French.) — Boil eggs hard, cut 
them in half ; take the yolks out and mix with cold 
chicken orveal, chopped very fine ; add pepper, salt, 
, a large piece of butter, (chopped parsley if you 
choose ;) place this mixture in the eggs, uniting the 
two parts ; roll in the white of egg, (two whites t» 
one dozen eggs ;) drop in hot lard, and fry a light 
brown ; after taking them out, pour off the fat, and 
in the same pan pour half a pint of cream or rich 
milk, saving a little cold to mix with a spoonful of 
flour, to thicken ; add the yolk of an egg ; stir quickly, 
and when smooth pour over the eggs. 

L-_-.]i„ Google 



Maearoni. — One-quarter of ft pound of macaroni 
boiled in water, vltli a little salt, twenty or thirty 
minutes ; when done, drain off the water, and keep 
the saucepan covered ; roll two tablespoonfula of 
butter in four of flour ; boil half a pint of cream and 
one pint of milk, to which add the butter and flour, 
and boil until it tliickens, stirring all the time ; grate 
one-quarter of a pound of cheese ; butter a dish and 
put in first a layer of macaroni, and one of cheese ; 
add some of the sauce, and so on until the dish is 
filled, the last layer to be cheese ; bake ten minutes 
in a quick oven. 

Maearoni d la Solferino.— To half a pound of mac- 
aroni boiled in water and well strained, add half an 
onion, a slice of raw ham, chopped fine and browned ; 
moisten the mixture with tomato sauce, and juBt be- 
fore serving, sprinkle the whole with grated cheese, 
about four tableapoonfuls or more. 

For dressir^ Celery/. — Trim and wash the celery 
aad lay it in salt and water one hour ; put in a form 
the length of the celery pieces ; fill with a rich chicken 
water ; one ounce of butter, vinegar to taate, and a 
little salt ; cover tight and boil tender ; remove the 
celery, drain well ; brown two spoonfuls of flour, mix 
it well in and pour through a sieve over the celery. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 
Parker Souse Rolls. — One quart of flour, butter 
half as large as an egg, half a teaspoonful of white 
sugar, a little salt ; wet up at night with .warm milk, 
previously boiled ; half a teacup of yeast ; in the 
morning knead fifteen minutes ; let it rise until two 
P. M. ; then roll out like doughnuts, cut round, put 
a small piece of butter into each one, fold over and 
pull it, to make it long and shaped like a roll ; put 
in the tins and let it rise until time to bake, half an 
hour before tea, in a quick oven ; to be eaten hot. 

Burlington Muffins. — Boil and mash four potatoes, 
rub.tliem into one quart of flour, add one tablespoon 
of butter, a little salt, half a small teacup of yeast, 
four eggs, half a teaspoonful of fine sugar ; mix at 
night ; drop the dough from a spoon into muffin 
rings or pans, and set it to rise till morning ; bake 
half an hour. 

Bolls. — One pound of flour, one egg, butter the 
size of an egg, worked in the flour, one tablespoon 
of sugar, half a pint of milk, warmed ; an even spoon 
of salt, one and a half tablespoons of yeast ; make 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



over night ; etir down early in the morning, let it 
rise, then put in pans to rise before baking. 

French Rolls. — One quart of flour, add two well 
beaten eggs, half a pint of milk, one spoonful of yeast, 
a little Baltyione ounce of butter ; knead thoroughly ; 
mix the night before using ; make Into small rolls 
half an hour before baking. 

Bye Drop Caket. — One and a half pintB of rye 
flour, one pint and four lai^e spoonfuls of milk, five 
e^s, a piece of soda as large as a pea,^a pinch of 
salt ; beat the eggs separately and stir the flour into 
them ; bake in earthen cups. 

IDrop Biscuit. — Two pounds of flour, one-quarter 
of a pound of butter, one gill of yeast, milk enou^ 
to drop ; mix thoroughly ; set to rise ; after they are 
risen do not stir or knead, but drop with a spoon on 
to buttered tins ; bake in a quick oven. 

Magnolia Bice Bread. — One pint of rice flour, one 
pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg, 
one level teaspoonful of soda, one of cream tarter, a 
little salt ; scald the milk and mix as for com bread. 

Bmk. — One pint of warm milk, fo'or ounces of 

D^iiiifdbt Google 



BBBAKPA8T AND TEA CAKfS. 25 

butter dissolved in it, two pounds o£ flour, six ounces 
of powdered sugar, mixed in the flour, a little salt, a 
teacup o£ yeast ; set the sponge at night ; knead into 
a light dough in the morning ; let it rise well ; then 
roll it out half an inch thicfc ; cut it out and let it 
rise again ; beat an egg and brush over the top with 
a feather ; hake in a quick oven. 

Indian Batter Cdkex. — Onp quart of sifted Indian 
meal, one handful of wheat flour, sifted, three eggs 
well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of brewer's yeast, or 
four of home made, one teaspoonful of salt, one quart 
of milk. 

Muffins. — One quart of milk, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of yeast, flour 
to make them a stiff batter, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg ; the milk should be blood warm. 

Windham Biscuit. — Three pounds of flour, nine 
ounces of butter, three eggs, three spoonfuls of yeast, 
three of cream ; mix together with milk to a stiff 
paste, and beat half an hour ; a' little Bait ; roll out 
verj/ thin. 

Excellent Soda Biscuit. — One quart of flour, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, well rubbed together, one 



■ JO, Google 



26 RECEIPTS. 

teaspoonful of Boda diBeolved in the milk, (about one 
and a half cups of cold milk,) two teaspooiifuls of 
cream tartar sifted in the flour ; stir all together with 
a fork quickly, and turn on to the board ; roll out 
and bake inunediately. 

Lowell Brown Bread. — Three teacups of Indian 
meal, two teacups of rye meal, half a teacup of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoon of salt, and one of soda ; mix 
with not quite one quart of milk ; bake two hours ; 
thifl quantity makes one round loaf. 

Sally Lunn. — Six ounces of butter rubbed into 
two pounds of Hour, three e^s, one pint of milk, 
(blood warm,) two tableapoonMs of yeast ; bake 
one and a half hours in a quick oven ; half the 
quantity is enough for a small family. 

Com Pone. — Sift about one quart of com flour; 
make a thin batter, adding by degrees spoonfuls of 
clabber, beating it all the time one way ; add three 
or four e^s, well beaten, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
one of Boda, dissolved in a little warm milk ; grease 
the pane well ; then sprinkle com meal thickly over 
the buttered parts before putting in the batter. 

Italian Bread. — One pound of bread dough, mix in 



BBEAEFAST AND TEA CAKES. 27 

half a cup of softebed butter ; use flour enough to 
roll out, but not stiff ; sift fine Indian meal over the 
fingers after they have been rolled out, cut into Btrips 
about three-fourths of an inch wide, and sevfen or 
eight long; place them on a tin sheet ; let them rise 
^ few minutes, and bake ; they should be quite crisp. 

Graham Fuffs.— To one pint of Graham flour add 
one pint of milk and one egg ; stir in the flour slowly 
until it becomes a smooth batter ; put it in bake pans 
after heating, and place it in the oven at once ; two 
dozen. 

yantueket Cam Bread, — One pint of meal scalded 
with one quart of sweet milk ; add butter the size 
of an egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one tableapoonful 
of sugar, four eggs well beaten. Mis thoroughly, 
and bake. 

Bominy Bread. — Boil soft one pint of small homi- 
ny; when cool, add one tablespoonful of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of com meal, two eggs well 
beaten, and one pint of milk. Melt a tablespoonful 
of lard, and when hot, pour in the batter. Cooks in 
five minutes. 

Butch Puffet. — One quart of milk, three e^8, one 

u-.:-.]o, Google 



28 HECEIPTS, 

cup of Biigar, one cup of butter, half a cuji of yeast, 
and flour enough to make a spoon stand in it. Let 
it rige several houre. Bake in long tins three-quaiv 
ters of an hour. 

Breal^aat Cakes. — One quart of flour, one cup of 
cream, (sweet or sour,) one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar sifted in the flour, one teaspoonful (even full) 
of soda, two eggs beaten and worked in the dough. 
Else over night. To be rolled thin, and fried in boil- 
ing lard. 

Cream Cake. — One pint of cream, four eggs beaten 
separately, a little salt, and flour enough to make a 
batter like cake. Bake in long tins, and eat imme- 
diately. 

Cream Cakes. — One tumblerful of milk, one tum- 
blerful of cream, four eggs, salt, and flour enough 
to drop on buttered tins by spoonfuls several inches 
apart. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — The Yeast. — Soak alight hand- 
ful of hops in cold water. Boil four or five potatoes 
with the hops until they are very soft, then remove 
and mash the potatoes through a wire sieve. With 
the boiled water scald six or seven spoonfuls of flour, 



D^itizMut Google 



BBEAEFAST iSD TEA. CAKES. 29 

and add one teacupful of yeast. Let it stand until it 
becomes Hght. Wlien it rises, it is ready for use. 

The Cakes. — About ten lai^ spoonfuls of buck- 
■wheat flour, two spoonfuls of Indian meal, half a 
teacupfalof yeast. Beat the batter at least ^ecM 
minutes at night. Mix with warm water, and add 
some salt. 

Flannel Oa&ea. — Two ounces of butter, one pint 
of hot milk to melt it, one pint of cold milt, five 
eggs, flour enough to make a stiff batter, one tea- 
Bpoonful of salt, two spoonfuls of yeast. Set it in 
a warm place and let it rise three hours. Butter d 
griddle and drop on in small cakes. 

Vzrffinia Wafers. — One quart of flour, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, the yolks of two eggs, milk 
enough to be able to roll the dough very thin. Beat 
the dough with a rolling pin half an hour or more, 
until it blisters, and then roll it as thin as paper. 
Gut out the biscuits, prick them with a fork, and bake 
them on tins or pans two or three miuutea. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



CAKE, ETC. 
Black Cake. — Two pounds of butter, two pouuda 
of sugar, two pounds of florfr, twenty eggs, eight 
pounde of citron, nine pounds of raisins, seven 
pounds of currants, ten nutmegs, two teaapoonfuls 
of cinnamon, two of cloves, two of molasses, half a 
pint of brandy, and half a pint of wine. If the loaves 
are lai^, bake three hours in a moderately hot oven. 

Pound Cake. — One pound of sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, ten eggs, one pound of flour, 
and some grated nutmeg. 

Harford " Election Cake.'* — " Extra. — ^Four 
pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound of 
■ butter, one pound of lard, two pounds of raisins, one 
pound of citron, four eggs, one quart of new milk, 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of mace, four nutmegs, half 
a tumbler full each of wine and brandy, and one pint 
of home-made yeast. In the morning eream the but- 
ter and lard, and when very light, add the sugar, 
mixing well ; then take a little less than half of it 
and rub well into the flour, after well warming the 
flour. Add the milk blood-warm, and the yeast. 
Mix thoroughly, and let it stand where it will keep 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



CAKE, ETC. 31 

quite varm, until it becomes very light, which should 
be by nine or ten o'clock at night. Do not disturb 
it while rising. Beat the egg8 separately and mix 
with the remainder of shortening, adding spice, wine, 
etc. Mix well, and let it rise a second time. Next 
morning, when light, fill pans two-thirds full, putting 
in a little at a time, and dropping the fruit in thickly 
in layers, to prevent its sinking. Bake in a slow 
oven. Observe all of the directions. 

For the Yeast, boil a small handful of hops in one 
quart of water,' and strain through a sieve ; pour 
boilinff hot over the flour enough to make a thin bat- 
ter. When cool, add half a pint of distillery yeast, 
strain again, and let it stand until it is very light 
and foamy. 

Mate the yeast the day before you wish to make 
the cake. 

Imperial Cake. — One pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, fourteen ounces of flour, ten eggs,- one 
glass of wine, half a glass of rose water, two nut^ 
megs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, 
one pound of almonds blanched and cut in pieces. 
Bake in two round loaves. 

Ladi/ Cake. — One pound of sugar, half a pound of 

D;,t,;.dbt Google 



32 BECEIPTS. 

butter, .three-quarters of a pound of flour, the whites of 
sixteen eggs, two ounces of bitter almonds blanched 
and pounded with rose water to a fine paste, added 
to the butter and sugar well rubbed together. Bake 
in shallow tins in a moderate oven. 

French Loaf. — One pound of flour, one pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter, one pound of raisins, 
eight eggs, a glass of wine, the peal and half the 
jmce of a fresh lemon. 

Coeoanut Cake. — One pound of sugar, half a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of flour, six eggs, 
one nut pared and grated. 

Spice Cake. — One pound of flour, one pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter, four eggs, one spoon- 
ful each of cloves and cinnamon, one nutmeg, some 
chopped raisins and citron, one teacupful of milk, 
one teacupful of saleratus, and a glass of wine or 
brandy. 

Sponge Cake. — One pound of sugar, half a pound 
of flour, ten or eleven eggs, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, and a pinch of salt. Beat the whites 
of the eggs very stiff and add them to a part of the 
ntgv, beating stiff; then the yolks, beaten thor- 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



CAKE, ETC. 83 

oughly, with the remaining sugar, then the lemon, 
and lastly, sift in the flour lightly, Btir slowly, and 
bake immediately in a CLuick oven. 

QueeiCs Cake. — One pound of sugar, half a pound 

of butter, one pound of flour, sis eggs, a wine glass 
of cream, two glasses of wine simmered with some 
mace, and some chopped raiains. 

Betsey. — Two and one-half pounds of flour, one 
,aiid one-quarter pounds of sugar, one pound of but- 
ter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of ginger, carraway 
seeds, a tiny bit of saleratus. Roll very thin, and 
cut in long strips. Bake a delicate brown. One- 
half the quantity is stifGcient. 

Rose Drops. — One-half pound of butter, three cups 
(small) of sugar, four eggs, a wine glass of rose 
water, one teaspdonful of soda dissolved in one-half 
cup of milk or cream, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, six or seven cups of flour. Drop from a tear 
spoon into pans and bake. 

Excellent Bread Cake. — Two pounds of dough, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, five eggs, a wine glass of brandy. Eub the 
butter and sugar together and add one-half. When 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



well risen add the spice and brandy, then the re- 
mainder of the butter and sugar, raiaine and citron. 

Saised Bread Cake, iVo. 2. — Three tearcups of 
dough, two of sugar, one ot butter, two eggs, nut- 
meg, a glass of wine, one coffee-cup of raisins. 

Take three cups of flour, mix with it a little jeaat 
into a batter, (as tliick as for pound cake,) at night. 
In the morning add the other ingredients. Let stand 
about two hours before bakingv Fut in the raisins 
just before baking. 

French Cake. — Three and one-half cups of flour, 
two and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sour milk, six eggs, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonfiil of cream of tartar. 

Cocoanut Mountain Cake. — Six e^s, one poimd of 
powdered sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound 
of flour, one cup of milk with a teaspoonful of soda 
jn it. Mix the butter and sugar, then add the eggs 
one by one, stirring well, then the flour and milk 
alternately and gradually. Bake in three jelly cake 
tins. Sprinkle freshly grated cocoanut between each 
layer and over the top. Makes two loaves. 

A Nice Jelly Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one 



and three-qnartep cups of sugar, three cups of Sour, 
one cup of milk, four eggs, three teaapoonfuls of 
haking powder. Bake in a deep tin, and when cold 
cut in three layers, spreading jelly between. Sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the top. 

Lemon Cake. — One cup of butter, three cups of 
sugar, the yolks of five eggs well beaten, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a tearcup of milk, the grated 
peel and juice of a lemon ; add last of all the beaten 
whites of the eggs, and sift in four cups of flour as 
light as possible. Bake in long tins half an hour. 

Sugar (Hn^erhread. — One pound of butter, one 
and one-half pounds of brown sugar, eight eggs well 
beateuj^o pounds of flour (lacking a tearcup full,) 
a coffee-cup two-thirds full of ginger. Wet a kiiife 
in milk and spread on flat tins. Sift a little white 
sugar over the top just before baking. 

Coffee Cake. — One and one-half cups of sugar, one 
of butter, one tif molasses, one egg, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, three-<iuarterB of a 
teaspoouful of soda, one of cloves, one nutmeg, one 
cup of very strong coffee, four cups of flour. Mix in 
the above order. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



Ordinal Boston Cream Cakes. — One pound of flour, 
one-half pound of butter. Kub the butter well into 
the flour, etir very quickly into a quart of boiling 
■ water, boil one minute, and turn it into a dish to cool. 
When cool add ten eggs two at a time, heating with 
your hands only enough to mix. Drop on buttered 
tins, and hake in a hot oren fifteen minutes. Thia 
quantity will make twenty-four cakes. 

Custard for Cream Cakes. — One quart of milk, four 
eggs, two ounces of flour beaten with the eggs, and 
stirred in when it boils. Sweeten and flavor as you 
like. The custard should be made first that it may 
have time to cool. 

Sxcellent Cream Cahea. — (Blot.) — Two ounces of 
butter in a saucepan with one and one-half gills of 
cold water. At first boiling throw in four ounces of 
fiour, and stir fast half a minute or so ; then add 
four eggs one at a time, or five if the eggs are small. 
Butter a tin, drop with a spoon one and a half inches 
apart, glaze with egg and bake. When done cut — 
not quite through — and fill with cream- 
ing Cream. — Two tablespoonfids of sugar in a 
saucepan with one of flour, three yolks of eggs, one- 
half pint of milk. Mix well cold, set on the fire, stir 
cotutanily five minutes, and flavor. 

u -.■■JO, Google 



OAEB, ETC. - S7 

CkooolaU Bolaira. — Paste the same as for cream 
cakes, and drop on buttered tins lengthwise. When 
baked and cold cut through one-half and fill with the 
following cream : 

One-half omnce of chocolate cnt and melted on the 
fire, three spoonfuls of sugar, one of flour, and the 
yolka of four eggs. Mis well cold, add three gills of 
milk, set on the fire and stir constantly till thickened, 
flavor, add a, few drops of water to the chocolate, and 
add to the cream, mixing well. 

Scrape two ounces of chocolate, four ounces of 
sugar, two spoonfuls of cold water, stir on the fire 
till thick enough, dip one side of the cakes in, and 
when cold enjoy them. 

JwnMei. — One pound of flour, one ponnd of sugar 
mixed ; then cut up one pound of butter (after hav- 
ing washed the salt out of it) in the sugar and flour ; 
rub all well together, add the whites and yolks of 
four eggs beaten separately, a wine glass of brandy, 
enough rose water to flavor, and some cinnamon. 
Drop a teaspoonful on tins quite far apart, as they 
spread very thin. Bake in a Tiioderate oven. Watch 
constantly to prevent their burning. 

CooMes (Mrs. Hart's). — ^Two cups of sugar, one 
4 

D^iiiifd'bt Google 



88 RECEIPTS. 

of butter, one teaspoonfiil of pearlash diaaolTed in one 
tearcup of milk, flour enough to roll out, and half an 
ounce of carraway seed if you wish. 

CoohieB, No. 2. — Two cups of sugar, one of butter, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar, one tablespoonful of carraway seed, and flour 
enough to roU out very thin. Use a crimped rolling- 
pin, and cut in lengths with a jagging iron. Bate 
a light brown. 

Beignet SoufflS. — Ptit in a stewpan one pint of 
milt or water, one teaspoonful of sugar, two ounces 
of butter, a few drops of vanilla flavoring ; give it one 
boil, and throw in some flour, stirring constantly until 
it thickens and detaches itself from the pan ; it will 
take about half an hour, as the better it is done the 
lighter it is ; remove it from the fire ; stir in six eggs, 
one at a time ; about two ounces of sugar ; have 
ready a pan of hot fat, and drop in by a spoon small 
pieces of the paste ; when cooked a nice color, take 
out and drain on a napkin, and sift sugar over. 

Qiitgerhread. — One cup of sugar, two cups of mo- 
lasses, one cup of butter, three e^s, four cups of 
flour, two teaspoon&ls of saleratus, one cup of cream, 

u-_-.ji,v Google 



CAKE, ETC. 39 

one tablespoonful of ginger ; add also cumamon, 
cloves, and allspice, ami a little dried orange-peel if 
you like. 

OruUera. — One-half pound of sugar, five eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, one nutmeg, and enough 
flour to roll out. Fry in hot lard. 

NapUi Biscuit. — One pound of flour, one pound 
of sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, half a ■wine 
glass of rose water. Drop on buttered tins and bake 
a light brown. 

Oleeokes. — One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of yeast. ■ Make a sponge over night, let it rise, and 
when light add one pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, six eggs, cinnamon and nutmeg, and one pint 
of inilk : let it rise a second time, cut into round 
pieces after roUing out, fry in hot lard, and then roll 
in Bugar. 

QingerhreadNvts. — Half a pound of brown sugar, 
a quarter of a pound of butter, one and a half pounds 
of flour, two large spoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful of powdered cloves, and one of cinnamon ; stir 
in one pint of molasses, the grated peel of a large 
lemon, and a very small tcaspoonful of pearlash 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



40 EECEIPT3. 

diaaolved in vinegar. Roll out half an inch thick, 
and cut in small cakes thb size of a quarter of a 
dollar. 

Chocolate Cake. — One pound of sugar, ten eggs, a 
part of the juice and grated rind of a lemon, a pinch 
of salt, half a teaspoonM o£ cream tartar, quarter o£ 
a teaspoonful of soda, half a pound of dour. Dissolve 
the Boda in a trifle of hot water, and sift the cream 
tartar in the flour. Spread on jelly tins, and remove 
firom the tin as soon as baked to a light brown. Have 
ready the following paste, and spread on warm : — 
Two squares of Baker's chocolate, three-quarters of 
a cup of sweet milk, one cup of brown sugar. Pound 
the chocolate, and dissolve it on the fire in the milk ; 
then add the sugar, and boil slowly forty or fifty 
minutes. Must be spread on the cake while both 
are warm. 

Another Chocolate Icing. — Two-thirds of a cup of 
grated chocolate, one cupful of powdered sugar, well 
mixed together ; stir like frosting into the beaten 
whites of three eggs, and add a little vanilla flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoanvt Spor^e. — One and a half pounds of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, ten eggs beaten 



D;*;.JUt Google 



CAKE, ETC. 41 

separately, one half the sugar with the yolks, and 
the other half with the wliitea ; the grated meat of 
two large nuts, and some salt. 

IhughnutB. — Add some flour to one cent's worth 
of yeast, and one cupfiil of milk ; let it rise after din- 
ner. At night add two eggs, one cupful of milk, 
three-quarters of a cup of lard, two cups of sugar, a 
pinch each of nutmeg and cinnamon, and soda the 
size of a pea. Give a second rising. In the morning 
heatihe moulding board, cut all out with a spice box, 
and let them rise an hour or more before frying. Fry 
them a light brown. Drain them on a napkin and 
sift sugar over them. 

Siekory-nut Cakea. — One teacupful of nnt meats, 
one teacupfiil of sugar, one egg, two scant table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Drop on buttered tins in small 
cakes and bake. 

yl Cocoanut Cakes. — One pound of cocoanut grated 
fine and dried, one pound of sugar, the whites of two 
eggs well beaten ; mix with a spoon and make into 
small balls. Lay them on tins covered with white 
paper ; set two inches apart and bake them about 
fifteen minutes. Watch them closely, for they are 
apt to bum. 
4* 

D^iiiifdbt Google 



42 BECEIPTS. 

Chocolate Caramels. — (N. T.) — ^Half a pound of 
chocolate, three-quarters of a cup of milk, two cups 
of sugar, one cup of molasscB, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg ; boil half an hour. Try them in cold 
water, and if they are hard, spread them on buttered 
pans, and when nearly cold, cut them in squares. 

Another. — Half a pound of Baker's chocolate, three 
■ tumblerfuls of brown sugar, two tumblerfuls of mo- 
lasses, a piece of butter the size of a butternut, two 
tablespoonMs of cream. Boil the sugar and molaBses 
half an hour. Add the other ingredients and boil 
half an hour loi^r. Flavor with vanilla, etc. 

Geneva MolatBea Candy. — Put one spoonful of but- 
ter, one cupful of sugar, and two spoonfuls of water 
into a kettle. When it just boils, add half a cup of 
molasses. Boil about fifteen or twenty minutes, or 
longer, according to test. Add nutmeats just before 
turning on to buttered tins, and spread it as thin as 
possible. Try it. • 

Oranges 0-lac^i. — (Blot.) — Pare and separate them 
the day before using, and set in a dry place. Put 
halt a pound of sugar, and half a pint of water on 
the fire in a copper saucepan ; after mising once do 



D^itizMut Google 



CBEAMS, ETC. 43 

not stir again. Let them boil for some time, then 
test with a stack, and drop in water ; if the sugar 
breaks, it is ready. Hang the fruit on wire and dip 
in, then hang on a pole to dry. 



CREAMS, ETC. 



Philadelphia Ice Cream. — Boil one pint of milk 
and two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, and stir until 
very thick. Strain and let it cool, then add two 
quarts of good cream, and sweeten to taste. Flavor 
with vanilla bean. 

Another lee Oream. — One quart of milk, one qnart 
of cream, the whites of ten e^s, some sugar, and 
flavor. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and stir 
them into the cold milk, and let it boU. Add the 
cream cold, just before freezing. 

Frozen Pudding. — Six eggs, (the yolks added to a 
quart of milk or cream,) one heaping tablespoonful of 
arrowroot. Boil like custard. When cold, add pre- 
serves, stale cake, almonds, or anything good. Fla- 
vor with wine, brandy, and vanilla ; sweeten to taste. 
Freeze like ice cream. For the sauce, beat the 

D^iiizfdbt Google 



whites of tiie eggs with a little brandy, sugar, and 
cream. 

Matrimony. — Pare aiid cut in Btnall pieces two 
dozen peaches. Cover them with sugar and let them 
stand three or four hours. Beat them into one quart 
of cream, or very rich custard, (if cream sweeten,) 
and freeze. 

Poreupine. — Slice a sponge cake in halves, spread 
them with jelly, then put them together, and pour 
wine over it ; stick with blanched almonds. Set in 
a deep dish, and pour custard around it, 

^man Punch. — One tumblerful each of brandy 
and rum, half a tumblerful of madeira wine, three 
large lemons, three pints of water, one teaspoonful 
of drawn green tea, and sugar to taste. Squeeze 
the lemons and cut a parf; of the peel thin, leaving 
it in the liquor several hours before using, to extract 
the flavor. May be frozen or not. 

Apple Float. — Core three large apples, bake them, 
remove the skin, and add one cupful of powdered 
sugar, and the white of one egg ; beat all together 
very light. Put a rich soft custard at the bottom of 
a dish, and float the apple upon it. 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



CREAMS, ETC. 45 

Chocolate Oream». — Beat separately the whites and 
yolks of six eggs ; add to tlie latter a cupful of fine 
sugar, and stir the whites into the yolka. Dissolve 
quarter of a pound of chocolate in half a pint of hot 
water, and add one and a half pints of cream. Give 
it one boil, and turn it on to the eggs, stirring con- 
stantly. Pour it into a pitcher and set it into boiling 
water, stirring until the cream thickens. 

To be served in glasses, and eaten cold. Whip 
sweetened cream very thick to ornament the top. 

Wkipg. — One quart of cream, half a pint of wine, 
half a pound of sugar, the whites of three eggs, and 
the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 

Chocolate Custard. — Grate and boil two squares of 
Baker's chocolate in one pint of water for fifteen. 
minutes ; then add a quart of milk, and sugar enough 
to make it quite sweet, and boil all together for ten 
minutes. Set it away to cool, and when quite cold 
add five eggs, beaten, leaving out the whites of two. 
Return the mixture to the fire till it thickens. Strain 
it and flavor with vanilla. 

For Squash or Pumpkin Pies. — AHow to three cups 
of the squash, one cupful of cream, three eggs, some 
sugar, and seasoning ; make very thin with hot milk. 

. - V kIc 



46 RECEIPTS. 

Lemon Pies. — Two lemona, one cupfiil of cream, 
five eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
sugar to taste. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar 
together, then beat the whites of the eggs stiff ; add 
the cream to the yolks, nest the melted butter, grated 
lemon, and juice ; then add the whites just before 
putting into the plates, which must be covered with 
light paste. 

Apple Pudding. — Two pounds of strained apple, 
six ounces of melted butter in rose water, eight e^^, 
lemon and sugar to taste. Bake in pu£E paste. 

Charlotte Busae. — Three-quarters of an ounce of 
isinglass, (good weight,) one vanilla bean, put into 
lialf a pint of milk ; boil till dissolved ; ten e^s, (less 
" will do ;) add to the yolks half a pound of sugar ; 
treat very light ; add half a gill of brandy, then one 
pint of sweet cream ; strain the half a pint of milk y 
add then the beaten whites, and mix all together ; 
pour into moulds which have been lined with sponge 
cake, about a quarter of an inch thick. 

Another (easier). — Whip to a stiff froth one pint 
of cream, with the whites of two eggs in it ; one great 
spoon of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in a cup of milk ; 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



CBEAUS, ETC. 47 

sweeten ; flavor with wine and vanilla ; ponr on to 
the cake in moulds. 

G-ateau de Pommea. — Dissolve three-quarterB of a 
pound of loaf sugar in one pint of water ; add two 
pounds of apples, pared and cored, the peel of one 
lemon, chopped very fine, and a part of the juice; 
hoil until quite stiff ; put into a mould ; when turned 
out for the table, stick with blanched almonds, and 
pour around it a rich, soft custard. 

Charlotte. — Line tlie sides and bottom of a baking 
dish with thin slices of bread well buttered ; then fill 
the dish with layers of apple, cut in thin slices ; 
sprinkle frequently with sugar and bits of butter, 
using in all about half a pound of butter ; in the 
meantime soak in warm milk as many thin slices of 
bread as will cover the whole ; over wliich place a 
plate and a weight to keep the bread close upon the 
apples ; bake slowly three hours. 

Wine Jelly. — Add to a box of Nelson's gelatine the 
juice of three lemons and one orange, one pint of 
cold water ; let it stand one and a quarter hours ; 
then add one pound of white sugar, one quart of 
boiling water, one pint of wine, stirring gently until 

. - V Jc 



48 BBCEIFTS. 

dieaolTed ; turn through a strainer into moulda to 
cool ; it is best to pare the rind of one lemon and 
of tlie orange, very thin, and boil in some of the 
water, with a little whole mace, and sticks of cinna- 
mon, to give a good flavor. 

Italian Cream. — Soak half a bos of Cos's gelatine 
in half a pint of milk, for about an hour ; add to it 
one pint of milk, and the beaten yolks of four eggs, 
stirring constantly, as for boiled custard ; sweeten to 
taste ; remove from the fire and add vanilla flavoring, 
and two glasses of wine ; then the beaten whites 
of the eggs thoroughly stirred in ; turn into moulds 
to cool. 

Com Starch Blarie-mange. — Dissolve four table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch in a little cold milk, and pour 
into one quart of boiling milk ; let it boil twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly ; have ready the whites of 
four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and four tablespoon- 
ful3 of white sugar, with a little salt ; stir together 
as soon as the corn starch is taken from the fire, and 
pour immediately into moulds ; make a soft custard 
of one pint of milk, the yolks of the e^s, and four 
tablespoonfuls of shgar ; flavor with vanilla ; when 
ready to serve turn the blancmange on to a deep 
dish, and pour the custard around it. 

u -.■■JO, Google 



CREAMS, ETC. 49 

Fritters. — One pint of boiling hot water, four egga, 
BOme salt, one pint of fiour ; stir the flour into the 
water and let it get cold ; then add the eggs, and fry 
in boiling lard. 

Strawherry Short Cake. — One pint of flour, one 
teacup of milk, two eggs, half a cup of butter, two 
teaspoons of baking powder ; bake in a shallow tin ; 
Wlien done cut it tlirough the center, butter it and 
put in the fruit plentifully sweetened ; sprinkle sugar 
over the top. 

Mirin^/ue. — Beat the whites of four small eggs; 
stir in half a pound of fine sugar ; spread on two tin 
plates ; bake of a light brown ; when done put one 
above the other, with the following mixture between : 
a small quarter of a sheet of Cooper's isinglasSj dis- 
solved, and added to one pint of cream ; flavor and 
sweeten to taste ; whip till quite light. 

Velvet Cream. — One quart of whipped cream, three- 
quarters of a box of gelatine, put into a cup and just 
covered with cold water ; let it stand an hour, tlien 
dissolve and strain it ; the whites of four eggs beaten 
stiff, stirred into the cream ; sweeten ; flavor with 
vanilla ; put it into a dish to cool ; then turn out. 
5 

L _-.ji,..Goo^k"- 



50 ■ RECEIPTS. 

In winter an excellent sherbet can be made by 
adding to the juice of oranges or lemons, powdered 
sugar and stirring in enough fresh fallen snow to 
thicken it ; to be eaten immediately. 

Spamak Cream. — Half an oimce of isinglass boiled 
ten minutes in half a pint of water ; strain into one 
quart of boiling cream ; add the yolks of six eggs, 
beaten very light ; one glass of wine ; sweeten to 
taste ; flavor with raniUa, and stir tmtil cold. 

Lemon Sponge. — Boil one and a half ounces of 
isinglass in a pint and a half of water with the rind 
of one lemon ; when nearly dissolved, add three 
ounces of fine si^ar and let it stand a short time on 
the fire. Strain, and add when nearly cold the juice 
of six lemons. Whisk a long time in a cool place 
till thick and white ; then put in a mould. 

Lemon Solid. — Boil two ounces of isinglass and 
the rind of four lemons grated in one quart of water 
imtil dissolved ; when cold, add the juice of the lem- 
ons; sweeten to taste, and add the yolks of nine 
e(^ well beaten. Fut all in a stewpan and give it 
a sinamer, stirring it all the time. Strain, and pour 
Into moulds. 

D^iiizfdbt Google 



CKEAMS, ETC. 51 

Omelette Souffii. — The yolks of six eggs beaten 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar ; the juice 
and grated peel t)f one lemon ; add the beaten whites 
just before putting in the oven. To be baked fifteen 
minutes, and serve immediately, as it will fall. 

Cream M4ringue. — Beat five yolks of eggs with a 
quarter of a pound of fine sugar; add one pint of ■ 
cream, with the grated rind of a small lemon. Put 
it in a deep dish and set it in boiling, water, stirring 
till it is a rich cream. Cool it, and when cold beat 
the whites of five e^s very stiff, with sugar ; spread 
it over the cream and hold a hot iron over it to 
harden the whites and make them brown. 

Ooeoanut MSrirtgue. — Mix one grated nut with one 
pint of milk, a small lump of butter, the grated rind 
of one lemon, the yolks of four eg^ ; bake fifteen 
minutes ; beat the whites of the eggs with half a pint 
of sugar, the juice of the lemon, and spread upon 
the top of the baked cocoanut, and bake f^ain ten 
minutes. 

Bake a sponge coke, cat out the middle and put 
soft custard in. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



PUDDINGS. 
Tapioca Pudding. — One quart of milk, four table- 
spoonfuls tapioca, four egga, one pint of cream, tlie 
grated peel of one lemon, a little salt, two glasses of 
wine, and sugar to taste ; let the tapioca soak twelve 
' hours in the milk, then put it over tlie fire, let it just 
hoil ; remove and let it stand until cold ; then add 
the other ingredients, leaving the cream and beaten 
whites of eggs until the last ; bake in a pan of water ; 
to be eaten cold; 

Birds-nest Puddivg. — Make puff paste sufficient 
for one pudding ; a pint of butter to a pint of sugar, 
rubbed to a cream ; flavor with nutmeg, and almost 
a wine-glass of wine ; eight eggs beaten separately, 
then mixed witJi tlie butter and sugar ; put it over 
the fire, stirring constantly, and let it almost boil ; 
line a pudding dish with paste ; put in six apples, 
pared and cored ; turn the mixture over the whole 
and bake half an hour. 

The above is enough for two puddings. If the 
mixture does not quite fill tlie dish fill up with milk, 
and add a little more sugar. Ornament the top with 
whipped cream. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



PDDDING3. 53 

Marlborough Pudding. — Six eggs, six ounces of 
butter, six ounces of sugar, six large spoonfuls of 
Bour apple stewed and strained, tJic grated peel of one 
lemon and lialf the juice. Mix the butter and suirar 
with the apple while hot, and not add the eggs until 
cool. Bake in deep dishes lined with paste. 

Sir Watkins Pudding. — One-half pound of beef 
■ suet chopped fine, one-half pound of pounded sugar, 
one-quarter of a pouhd of bread crumbs, one-quarter 
of a pound of fine flour, the grated rind of one lemon. 
Mix with these the yolks and whites of two eggs, 
and the juice of the lemon. A pudding this size re- 
quires two hours boiling, and the mould should be 
stuck with stoned raisins. To be served with a rich 
lemon sauce. 

Ckriatmaa Pudding. — Ten sponge crackers pounded 
and put in one quart of milk. Let stand over night. 
In the morning rub through a colander ; eight eggs 
beaten, one pound of sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of brandy, one pound of suet, one tableapoonful 
of salt, one of nutmeg, half a spoonful of mace, one 
spoonfiil of cloves, the rind of a lemon grated, one- 
quarter of a pound of citron cut in thin pieces, one ' 
pound of Gurraats, and one pound of atoned raisins. 
5* 

u-.:-.]o, Google 



54 RECEIPTS. 

Boil five lioura. It adda much to the appearance to 
turn half a tumbler of brandy over, and set it on fire 
just as it goes to the table. Serve with wine sauce. 

Lemon Fttdding. — One quart of rich lemonade, 
four tablespooitfuls of sago, six apples pared and 
cored. Bake in a pudding dish. 

Chocolate Pudding. — Four eggs, three even spoon- 
fuls of corn starch, one full cup of grated chocolate, 
two cups of sugar. Beat the yolks, mix the starch 
with a little cold milk and add ; put in the sugar and 
chocolate, pour all into one quart of boiling milk, , 
and cook a few minutes. Turn into a pudding dish. 
Make a frosting of the whites with four spoonfuls of 
sugar, spread on the top of the pudding, and just 
brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Amber or Marmalade Pudding. — One-half pound 
of bread crumbs, one-lialf pound of suet, one-half 
poand of sugar, one jar of Dundee orange marmalade, 
four e^s well beaten. Have the bread grat«d very 
fine, aud the suet chopped fine. Stir in the orange, 
lastly the eggs. Mix well, pour into a tin mould, 
. and steam four hours. Eat hot with wine sauce. 

Coeoanut Ptidding. — One pound of grated cocoa- 

u-.:-.]o, Google 



PODDINGS. 55 

nut, one-half pound of butter and one-half pound of 
sugar, stirred together until very light, add a glass 
of wine, six eggs well beaten added with the nut to 
the Bugar and butter. Grate two stale sponge cakes 
(confectioner's size,) or two ordinary slices, mix 
well together, put into a buttered dish, and balce half 
an hour. When done, ornament by bits of citron 
stuck all over, a la porcupine. Serve with hot wine 
sauce. 

Snow PvAding. — Dissolve half a box of gelatine in 
a cup of cold water, one large lemon sliced thin, with 
two cups of sugar, added to one pint of hot water. 
When the gelatine is dissolved add that also. When 
the mixture is cool add the beaten whites of three 
eggs, and beat till it looks like snow. Make a custard 
of the yolks of the three eggs and one pint of milk, 
and pour around the snow after it is turned out of 
the moulds. 

JBunter's Pudding. — One pound of bread crumbs 
mixed with one gill of thick cream, ten eggs, leaving 
out the whites of six, one pound of beef suet, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins, two ounces 
of citron, one tablespoonful of rose water, half a gill 
of brandy. Mix all well together, tie in a cloth, boil 

D;,t,;.J0tC.OO(^lc 



five honrs, and then send to the table with the top 
stuck with bits of citron. Serve with hot sauce. 

English Plum Pudding. — One pound of heef suftt, 
a little salt, three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, 
one pound of flour, six eggs, one pint of new milk, 
one and a half pounds of raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants, three-quarters of a pound of citron, two nut- 
megs, mace and cloves to .your taste, and two wine 
glasses of brandy. Chop the suet fine, nib it to a 
cream, add first the sugar, rub it well, then the flour, 
rub again, and add spices, fruit, and brandy. Beat 
the eggs, add them, then the milk. Tie in a cloth 
tight. This quantity will make two quart bowls, or 
three pints. ■ Boil the quarts five hours, the pints 
four hours. The water must be plentiful, boiling 
when the puddings are put in, and'not stop. 

Pine-apple Pudding. — One pine grated, one-half a 
pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, ten 
eggs, two ounces of bread crumbs. 

Virginia Puddij^.—Yive eggs, reserving the whites 
of three for sauce, one pint of milk, one gill of cream 
or an ounce of butter, three tablespoonfiils of flour, 
and a little salt. Bake half an hour. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



PUDDINGS. 57 

Sauce. — Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth 
with half a pound of sugar, and flavor with wine and 
vaniUa. To be put on tlie pudding just before serv- 
ing, after the pudding is cold. 

Suet Pudding. — One cup of suet, three ^ups of 
flour, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, two cups of raisins, one cup of molasses, 
currants and citron. To be boiled. Eat with wine 
sauce. 

Indian Pudding. — Turn one quart of scalding hot 
milk over one cup of Indian meal, mix well, and add 
a little salt, one cup of molasses, and butter tlie size 
of an egg. Bake. 

Sago Pudding. — Four large spoonfuls of sago pre- 
pared like starch ou Uie fire, with salt, pare and core 
apples, put a lump of sugar in each, pour the sago 
around tliem and bake. To be eaten with cream and 
sugar. 

Pop Oven. — Two teacups of flour, two of milk, two 
egga, salt, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
(melted,) butter the cups and nearly fill ; bake in a 
quick oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

Cold Miee Pudding. — A small teacup of rice, boiled 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



very soft, in three pints of milk, five eggs, the yolks 
of three, well beaten ; mix tlie eggs and rice ; after 
it comes off the fire, a small piece of butter, a little 
salt, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated rind of 
a lemon, one-half the juice to be added to the five 
whites, beaten stiff, with five tablespoonfids of sugar ; 
spread over the top of the rice, and brown in the 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 
Orange Marmalade. — To one dozen sweet oranges, 
add two lemons ; skin them and soak the rinds in 
water two or three days ; change the water, and boil 
them soft ; mash and mix them with the pulp, adding 
one pound of sugar to one pound of pulp and rind, 
and boil it. 

Brandy Peaches. — Put a quarter of a pound of 
ealeratus to a pail full of water ; when boiling throw 
in two or three peaches at a time, and let them re- 
main about five minutes ; then throw them into cold 
water for a minute, and rub the furze and skin 
off with a towel,.after which throw them into another 
pail of cold water till all are done ; make a syrup 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



PBESEEVBS Aim PICKLES. 59 

while the peaches are preparing; three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit ; boil the 
peaches in the syrup until a fork mil go in them 
easily, and then put in jara, filling up with the syrup 
and half the quantity of brandy ; when cold, cork 
tight. 

(hirratit Jelly. — Strain the juice of the fruit, add 
to every pint one pound of sugar ; heat the sugar in 
the oyen ; boil the juice separately twenty minutes, 
skimming it constantly ; pour to the sugar and when 
dissolved tarn into moulds, cover with paper the 
next day. 

ChUi Sauce. — Thirty ripe tomatoes, three green 
peppers, three medium sized onions, (chopped ;) add 
three tablespoons of salt, three tablespoons of mus- 
tard, three teaspoons of nutmeg, three teaspoons of 
ginger, one and a half teaspoons of allspice, one and 
a half teaspoons of cloves, one and a half of cinna- 
mon, one pint of vinegar, sugar about twelve table- 
Bpoonfuls ; boil until cooked, and bottle. 

Chow Chow. — Chop sixteen quarts of green toma- 
toes, thirty-six large cucumbers, thirty-six green pep- 
pers, five and one-third qnarta of onions, three cauli- 

' u-.:-.]o, Google 



flowers, picked Bmall ; salt it well and let it stand 
twenty-four hours ; drain off the brine, scald, and 
put it on again ; in an hour scald all together, with 
a piece of alum, half the size of an e^. 

Dreitsing. — Seven quarts of vinegar, two and a 
half pounds of brown sugar, two and a half teacups 
of flour, fourteen tablespoons of ground mustard ; 
put a piece of alum the size of a walnut into the 
vinegar, and when scalding hot stir in the flour, 
mustard and sugar, previously wet with a little cold 
vinegar ; " stir constantly until it thickens ; drain off 
the brine from the vegetables, and pour the dressing 
on hot. 

Tomato Catsup. — To one gallon of strained tomato, 
four tablespoonfuls of black pepper, four of salt, tliree 
of mustard, half a tablespoonful of allspice, half of 
cayenne pepper. 

ToTiiato Catsup. — Six quarts of tomatoes, (measure 
after they are peeled and mashed,) three pints of 
vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of salt, four of black 
pepper, three of mustard, three of allspice, three of 
cloves, two red peppers, three onions; boil font 
hours, and strain through a sieve ; bottle and cork 
tightly. 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



PRESEBVES AND PICKLES. 61 

Hot Pot, — Six quarts of vinegar, one pound of salt, 
one pound of ginger root, half a pound of shelotts, half 
an ounce of mace, two ounces of whole pepper, two 
ounces of mustard seed, one tablespoonful of cayenne 
pepper, one ounce of long peppers ; boil all together 
half an hour ; put it in a stone pot to cool, and then 
put in anything you please. 

A pichle for preserving tongues or any meat »)hen 
boiled fresh. — Sis pounds of salt, one pound of sugar, 
one pint of molasses, four ounces of saltpetre, boiled 
in four gallons of water ; cool and skim ; the meat 
to be put cold into the pickle. 

Sigdom. — One peck of green tomatoes, three pep- 
pers, and three onions, chopped fine ; add one cup 
of salt, and let it stand over night, then press out 
all water ; one-half a cup of white mustard seed, one 
tablespoon of black pepper, one tablespoon of cloves, 
one tablespoon of allspice, one cup of brown sugar, 
and a litUe horse-radish ; cover all witi scalded 
vinegar. 

Pickled Majtgoes. — Put the melons in a pot and 
pour boiling salt water upon them, and cover up ; the 
next day cat a slit from end to end, and take out the 
. 6 

^ - - A- 



aeeds ; return the melons to the brine, and leave them 
in it eight days ; then put them in strong vinegar for 
a fortnight ; afterwards wipe them dry inside, and 
stufE and tie them ; pack in a stone jar, with the slit 
uppermost, and keep them covered with the best 
Tinegar. 

Stuffing for forty melons. — One pound of white 
raw ginger to be washed and bpiling water poured 
upon it ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then slice it 
thin and dry it ; one pound of horse-radish, scraped 
and dried, one pound of mustard seed, washed and 
dried, one pound of chopped onions, one ounce of 
mace, one ounce of nutmeg, pounded fine, two ounces 
of tumeric, and a handful of black pepper corns ; 
make these ingredients into a paste with one-quarter 
of a pound of ground mustard, and half a pint of 
sweet oil. 

Spiced Currants. — Five pounds of currants, four 
pounds of brown sugar, one pint of vinegar; add 
whole cloves and cinnamon to taste ; simmer to- 
gether one hour. 

Pickled Oyaters. — A gallon of solid oysters, put 
into a colander to drain ; put the oysters into a bowl 
of salt and water, enough to cover them ; tako im- 



FBG3ERTES AND PICELB3. 63 

mediately out ; measure the liquor and add to it as 
mtich vinegar as liquor ; a tablespoonful of pepper 
corns, one of cloves, one of salt, a small teaspoon of 
mace ; boil about five minutes ; pour on the oysters ; 
cover and let stand. . 

PieMed Peaches. — Take ripe but hard peaches, 
wipe off tlie down, stick a few cloves into them, and 
lay them in cold spiced vinegar ; in three mouths 
they vrill be sufficiently pickled, and retain much of 
their natural flavor, 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. — One peck of peaches, one 
quart of vinegar, tliree pounds of brown sugar ; wipe 
off the down, and lay the fruit in a jar ; let them 
stand in the vinegar and sugar forty-eight hours ; 
take them out ; put the syrup on tlie fire, and throw 
in a few peaches at a time ; let the peaches cook 
until you can perforate them with a fork to the Btone ; 
take them out and pour the hot vinegar on them ; let 
a bag of cloves and pepper remain iu the vinegar. 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



PUNCHES, 4c. 
Mlk Punch. — (To bottle.) — (Judge Halihurton's 
receipt from, ike 53d Megimenfs mess.') — One quart 
of pale brandy, one quart of best rum, two and a half 
pounds of loaf sugar, seven lemons, rind and juice, 
four quarts of water, one quart of boiled milk ; mix 
the spirits, lemon and sugar ; let it stand one hour ; 
then add the water and milk, which must be quite 
cold ; stir tlie whole very well, and let it stand three 
hours ; pass it through a flannel bag until it becomes 
quite clear, when it may be bottled. 

Bum Toddy. — ( Com. Edgar, of New York Yacht 
Club.") — One part of rum, by measure (tumbler), half 
, a measure of sugar, two parts of water, one lemon, 
the rind only. 

Claret Cup. — (English receipt.) — Put into a large 
jug one bottle of claret, the rind of half a lemon, 
about four slices of cucumber, four ounces of sugar ; 
ice two hours ; stir once or twice ; just before serv- 
ing add one pound of ice, one bottle of seltzer, a 
glass of sherry, one of curagoa, or brandy, if you 



D^,t,;.dbt Google 



PUNCHES, ETC. 65 

Charleston Punch. — Three bottles of hock, six 
bottles of catawba, sis cups of strong black tea, three 
wine glasses of maraschino, three champagne glasses 
of old rum, three tumblers of powdered sugar, three 
oranges, three lemons, ice. 

Virginia Apple Toddy. — Three parts of brandy, 
(by measure,) one part of rum, two parts of sugar, 
eight parts of water, four roasted apples, if used, 
crashed in ; omit one part of water. 

FreTich Punch. — One bottle of brandy, one bottle 
of rum, three pounds of sugar, (half a bottle of orange 
flower water,) six oraqges, three lemons, one pint of 
green tea, six apples, stewed in two quarts of water ; 
this makes eight bottles of punch. 

Egg Nog. — Beat six eggs separately ; stir the yolks 
into one quart of milk, or thin cream, half a pound 
of sugar, then mix in half a pint of rum, or brandy ; 
flavor witli grated nutmeg ; lastly stir in the beaten 
whites of three eggs ; mix in a China bowl. 

Mint Julep. — Put at the bottom of a large tumbler 

one or two pieces of pine apple, nicely pared, and 

cover them with a thick layer of loaf sugar,; pour on 

it a wineglassful of the best brandy, and add water 

6* 



60 HECEIPTS. 

till the tumbler is two-thirds full : finish with a thick 
layer of pounded ice ; then Btick down at tlie side a 
bunch of fresh mint, and put in the other side a straw 
or glass tube. 

Meffent'a Punch. — Roll the lemons to make them 
more juicy ; then pare them very thin and cut out 
the pulp, removii^ the seeds and the white part of 
the rind ; add the peel and pulp to one pint of boil- 
ing water, with two teaspoonfuls of green tea. Boil 
ten minutes, then strain through a linen cloth, and 
sweeten. Add champa^e or brandy the last thing. 

Oxford Receipt for '■'■Siahop" — Stick cloves in the 
rind of a lemon or orange, and roast it a long time 
before a slow fire. Put equal quantities of cinnamon, 
cloves, allspice, and mace, into a little water, and 
boil them till the whole strength is extracted ; then 
boil a bottle of port or claret wine and put the roast 
lemon and spice into it ; then sVeeten and add the 
juice of half a lemon, and grate on some nutmeg. 
Serve hot, with the lemon and spice floating in it. 

Midled Wine. — One bottle of sherry or madeira 
wine, one and a half pints of water, and boil in a tea 
kettle. While boiling, beat up the yolks of nine eggs. 



PUNCHES, ETC. 67 

and add not qnite one pound of white sngar, grated 
nutmeg, and stir all together ; beat the ifhites of the 
eggs stiff, and stir them into the yolks. When the 
wine is boiled, hold the kettle as high as possible and 
turn the wine on, stirring constantly ; then turn from 
one pitcher to another until thoroughly mised. 

Tom and Jerry, — (Baltimore Receipt.)— Four eg^ 
and six lai^e spoonfuls of powdered sugar beaten to- 
gether very light, (a perfect froth,) six wineglasafuls 
of St. Croix rum, and one pint of boiling water. Stir 
the water into the mixture, and then turn it back 
and forth into two pitchers, the pitchers being hot, 
and the glasses also hot. Grate nutmeg on the top 
of each glass, and drink immediately. 



CAUDLE. 



Mix two spoonfiils of oatmeal in a quart of water, 
with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon 
peel ; stir it often, and let it boil twenty minutes ; 
strain and sweeten, and add a little white wine, nut- 
meg, and a little lemon juice. 

D^iiizfdbt Google 



A very delicate and excellent way of cooking an 
egg for the sick, is to break the egg in water, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours ; then gently boil the 
water until the egg is cooked. Serve on toast or 
plain. 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



fdbt Google 



fdbt Google 



D^iiizfdbt Google 



D;,t,;.dbt Google 



fdbt Google 



D5,l,;.dt» Google 



fdbt Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



fdbt Google 



fdbt Google 



b; Google 



fdbt Google 



i 



r 



■J i„ Google 



D^iiiifdbt Google 



