'LIBRARY 01 CONGRESS, # 



Uh. 



i 



•y^ 



opHtigltt 



.:ML 



M52>. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 



ol 



ERRATA. 



Page 60 — Cup Measure Douphmits. middio of the first line, add one cup and 
a half of s uga r. 

Page 62 — Pastiy, first line, omit ei- 0/ a pound . 



THE 

HOME MESSENGER BOOK 



OF 



Tested Receipts, 



RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED 

TO THE FRIENDS AND PATRONS 

OF THE 

DETROIT HOME OF THE FRIENDLESS, 

BY THE COMPILERS, 

M. B. D/^AND I. G. D. S. 

P R ICE, $1.2 5 . N,v.^^; 



The Profits of this Volume are devoted to the tieeds of the 
Home of the Friendless. 



While Using tliis Bool<, Hang it up by the Loop, and Hold it 
Open with two Clothes-Pins, 



PUBLISHED BY . 

E. B. SMITH & CO., Detroit. 
1S73. 




^ 






Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by 
E. B. SMITH & CO. 
For the Home of the Friendless, Detroit, Mich., 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



PRINTED BY THE 

TR'.BUNE PRINTING COMPANT. 

Detroit, 1873. 



SUMMARY OF CONTENTS. 



Soups, 

Beef and Game, 

Vegetables, .... 

Bread, Biscuit and Y^^ast, 
Tea and Breakfast Cakes, 
Breakfast and Tea Relishes, 
Cake, ..... 

Cookies and Ginger Cakes, 
Doughnuts and Crullers, 
Pies, ..... 

Puddings, .... 

Creams, Meringues and Charlottes, 
Ice Creams and Water Ices, 
Salads, ..... 

Pickles and Catsups, 

Preserves and Jellies, . . . . 

To Cure Beef, Tongues, Hams and Fish, 
To Banish Vermin, . . . . . 

Washing and Cleaning Receipts, . 
Receipts for the Sick, . . . . 

Ointments, Salves, Liniments, Sec, 
Miscellaneous, ...... 

Bills of Fare, 



PAGE 

5 
i8 

22 
27 

32 

37 
42 

56 
60 
62 

67 
80 
82 
89 

91 

98 

103 

105 

108 

"3 
121 

J 24 



PREFACE. 



Of the making of books there is no end, and of the making of 
Cook Books we trust there never will be, as long as each successive 
volume records an advance in gastronomic art and science. Every 
American woman of medium ability edits a receipt book. Our 
library shelves are full of these productions. Miss Leslie, Mrs. 
Hall, Mrs. Cornelius, Miss Beecher, Marion Harland, and scores of 
others, have contributed their mite, or might. Monsieur Blot 
rushed into the arena with the laudable intention of reforming, 
reconstructing and remodelling American taste. The present 
volume is an unambitious compilation of receipts gathered from 
hundreds of private sources, and published during the past five 
years in the Home Messenger, the organ of the Detroit Home of the 
Friendless, and the Thompson Home for Old Ladies. They have 
been tried, tested, criticised and reformed, until in a plain and 
practical way we consider them faultless. 

No cookery book alone will make a good cook. Judgment in 
baking, boiling, stewing, frying and compounding is only to be 
attained by experience ; but the acquisition of that experience 
may be greatly expedited by such instructions as are to be found 
herein. Here are receipts that will enable any lady to get up for 
her own family, or ceremonious guests, a delightful breakfast, lunch, 
dinner, lea, tea-company, or large evening entertainment. We 
have endeavored to make them so explicit, that a lady can follow 
them herself, or stand by her cook, and see that she follows them. 

One word on the subject of instructing cooks ; 

" Do you understand how to make muffins, Bridget?" 

" I do that, mum. I makes illegant muffins ; they 're just as 
loight, as loight," etc. 



IV PREFACE. 

True enough, they are as "loight, as loight," for she poisons 
them with baking powder, and they taste like saw-dust and over- 
effervesced soda water. Therefore stand by her ; see that she puts 
in first, flour; second, salt ; third, milk and eggs beaten together; 
fourth, yeast ; fifth, butter, and then make sure they set in a warm 
place over night. 

In this book will be found some of the most distinguished 
receipts, whose secrecy has been guarded with great care; a rare 
one for Biscuit Glace, others for Water Ices, Creams, Chicken and 
Lobster Salad, and very many fresh and new receipts for Sweet 
Cakes ; at the end of the volume a few bills of fare for the various 
seasons, or different styles of entertainment. 
Detroit, October, 1873. 



GENERAL HINTS FOR MAKING SOUPS. 



GENERAL HINTS FOR MAKING SOUPS. 

It is not easy to see why soups are held in so little favor 
by Americans generally, while with almost all other people 
they form an important article of food. 

The French, from the richest to the poorest, have their 
'''' Pot au feu^^^ which literally would be " pot to the fire," 
but it is the name used to designate the universal soup. 
The directions for this vary. We give one of the most 
economical. Put in a pot which is kept for this purpose 
alone, 4^ quarts of cold water, and 3 lbs. of rump beef, 
with what remains of poultry or cooked meat that may be 
at hand. Put upon the fire until it boils, and then place 
where it will simmer gently, removing the scum as it rises ; 
add carrots, two turnips, two leeks or small onions, a head 
of celery, and three or four cloves. 

The whole story is meat and vegetables simmered 
slowly together, and it may be varied in many ways by 
using different vegetables. The meat and vegetables are 
removed and the clear soup served, after which the meat 
and vegetables are served plain, or the meat is dressed 
with tomato or other sauce. Sometimes a tough fowl is 
put into the soup pot and cooked until tender, and then 
put into the oven and browned; the broth thus made 
serves for a variety of soups ; with vermicelli, macaroni, 
rice or barley, it gives soups those names. By using a 
variety of vegetables cut fine it makes vegetable soup. 
Roast an onion until it is thoroughly brown and boil in 
the broth and you have brown soup. 

A soup may be varied in many ways, sometimes by 
slicing hard boiled eggs into it, after dishing; again a 
slice of bread, fried to a brown crisp in butter, cut in small 
bits and dropped into the soup when it is ready for the 
table, imparts a savory relish.. 



6 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Perfect Mock Turtle Soup. 

Endeavor to have the head and the broth ready for the 
soup, the day before it is to be eaten. It will take eight 
hours to prepare it properly. 

hours. 

Cleaning and soaking the head i 

To paTboil it to cut up i 

Cooling, nearly i 

Making the broth and finishing the soup 5 

8 
Get a calf s head with the skin on (the fresher the bet- 
ter) ; take out the brains, wash the head several times in 
cold water, let it soak for about an hour in spring water, 
then lay it in a stewpan, and cover it with cold water, and 
half a gallon over; as it becomes warm, a great deal of 
scum will rise, which must be immediately removed ; let it 
boil gendy for one hour, take it up, and when almost cold, 
cut the head into pieces about an inch and a half by an 
inch and a quarter, and the tongue into mouthfuls, or 
rather make a side dish of the tongue and brains. 

When the head is taken out, put in the stock meat, 
about five pounds of knuckle of veal, and as much beef; 
add to the stock all the trimmings and bones of the head, 
skim it well, and then cover it close, and let it boil five 
hcurs (reserve a couple of quarts of this to make gravy 
sauces); then strain it off and let it stand till the next 
morning ; then take off the fat, set a large stewpan on the 
fire with half a pound of good fresh butter, twelve ounces 
of onions sliced, and four ounces of green sage ; chop it a 
little; let these fry one hour; then rub in half a pound of 
flour, and by degrees add your broth till it is the thickness 
of cream ; season it with a quarter of an ounce of ground 
allspice and half an ounce of black pepper ground very 
fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one lemon peeled 
very thin; let it simmer very gently for one hour and a 



PERFECT MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 7 

half, then strain it through a hair sieve ; do not rub your 
soup to get it through the sieve, or it will make it grouty ; 
if it does not run through easily kiiock your wooden spoon 
against the side of your sieve; put it :n a clean stewpan 
with the head, and season it by adding to each gallon of 
soup half a pint of wine; this should be Madeira, or, if 
you wish to darken the color of your soup, claret, and two 
table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice; let it simmer gently tiU 
the meat is tender ; this may take from half an hour to an 
hour ; take care it is not over-done ; stir it frequently to 
prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, 
and when the meat is quite tender the soup is ready. 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten pounds of 
stock meat, will make ten quarts of excellent soup, besides 
the two quarts of stock you have put by for made dishes. 

Obs. — If there is more meat on the head than you wish 
to put in the soup, prepare it for a pie, and, with the 
addition of a calf's foot boiled tender, it will make an ex- 
cellent ragout pie; season it with zest, and a little minced 
onion, put in half a teacupful of stock, cover it with puff 
paste, and bake it one hour ; when the soup comes from 
table, if there is a deal of meat and no soup, put it into a 
pie-dish, season it a little, and add some little stock to it ; 
then cover it with paste, bake it one hour, and you have a 
good mock turtle pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup put two table-spoon- 
fuls of lemon-juice, same of mushroom catsup, and one 
of essence of anchovy, half a pint of wine (this should be 
Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the color of your soup^ 
claret), a tea-spoonful of curry powder, or 'a quarter of a 
drachm of cayenne, and the peel of a lemon pared as thin 
as possible, let it simmer for five minutes more, take out 
the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready for the tureen. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each tureen a dozen 
and a half of mock turtle forcemeat balls, and put them 
into the tureen. Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant 



8 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

addition, and are made by boiling the brains for ten min- 
utes, then putting them in cold water, and cutting them 
into pieces about as big as a large nutmeg ; take savory or 
lemon thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg grated, 
and pepper and salt, and pound them all together; beat up 
an egg, dip the brains in it, and then roll them in this mix- 
ture, and make as much of it as possible stick to them ; 
dip them in the egg again, and then in finely-grated and 
sifted bread crumbs; fry them in hot fat, and send them 
up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done or it will break, 
cut into pieces the same size as you cut the calf's head, 
and put in the soup, just to get warm before it goes to 
table, is a superb " bonne bouche ; " and pickled tongue, 
stewed till very tender, and cut into mouthfuls, is a favorite 
addition. We order the meat to be cut into mouthfuls, 
that it may be eaten with a spoon ; the knife and fork have 
no business in a soup-plate. 

N. B. — In helping this soup, the distributer of it should 
serve out the meat, force-meat and gravy, in equal parts; 
however trifling or needless this remark may appear, the 
writer has often suffered from the want of such a hint 
being given to the soup-server, who has sometimes sent a 
plate of mere gravy without meat, at others, of meat with- 
out gravy, and sometimes scarcely anything but force- meat 
balls. 

Obs. — This is a delicious soup, within the reach of those 
who " eat to live ;" but if it had been composed expressly 
for those who only " live to eat," I do not know how it 
could have been made more agreeable; as it is, the lover 
of good eating will " wish his throat a mile long, and every 
inch of it palate," 



BROWNING FOR SOUPS. — CORN SOUP. 9 

Browning for Soups. 

Many of the nicest soups owe their attractive appear- 
ance to burnt sugar, which is prepared as follows : Put 
three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and an ounce of but- 
ter in a small frying pan and set over the fire ; stir con- 
tinually until it is of a bright brown color, add half a pint 
of water, boil and skim, and when cold, bottle for use. 
Add to soups at discretion. 



Corn Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton or shank of beef in six quarts 
of water for four hours. After the meat and fat have 
been removed (it is better to stand over one day to 
cool, so that the grease may all be taken off), add a quart 
or more of sweet corn nicely cut from the cob, and boil 
twenty or thirty minutes. In cutting the corn (with a 
sharp knife) take off only the point of the kernels, and 
scrape the milk and pulp, thus avoiding the hull or skin, 
which is indigestible and unpalatable. Just before serv- 
ing, add to the soup a coffee cup of cream, with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour stirred smoothly in and boil for a minute. 
This can be made in winter by using the Yarmouth canned 
corn or the dried corn soaked over night, and boiled till 
tender. 



Corn Soup. 

Cut the grains from twelve ears of sweet corn and scrape 
the milk, add one quart of water. Let it boil until quite 
done — fifteen to twenty minutes — then add two quarts of 
new milk, and when it boils stir in one-quarter pound of 
butter rubbed into two tablespoonfuls of flour, pepper and 
salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs in the tureen and pour 
the soup in boiling, stirring all the time. 



lO HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Wtiy Soup is Wholesome. 

The London J^ood Journal says : Physiologically, soup 
has great value for those who hurry to and from their 
meals, as it allows an interval of comparative rest to the 
fainting stomach before the more substantial beef and 
mutton is attacked, rest before solid food being as impor- 
tant as rest after it. Let a hungry and weary merchant 
rush in jnedias res — plunge boldly into roast beef, and what 
is the result % The defeat is often as precipitate as was the 
attack. When the body is weary the stomach must be 
identified with it, and cannot therefore stand the shock of 
some ill-masticated, half-pound weight of beef. But if a 
small plateful of light soup be gently insinuated into the 
system, nourishment will soon be introduced, and strength 
will follow to receive more substantial material. 



Parker House Tomato Soup. 

For one gallon of soup take three quarts of good beef 
stock, (a shank of beef will make six quarts); one medium 
sized carrot, one turnip, one beet and two small onions ; 
peel and cut them in pieces ; add to this three quarts of 
red tomatoes ; boil all for one hour and strain through a 
cullender. Put five ounces oi butter in a pan, heat it until 
it becomes a light brown ; take it oft' the fire and add three 
tablespoonfuls of flour while hot ; mix well and pour a pint 
or more of the soup into the frying pan, then return all to 
the soup kettle ; season with salt, pepper and a dessert 
spoonful of sugar. Set it over the fire and stir till it boils ; 
boil and skim five minutes. For winter soup of this kind 
strain the soup before adding the tomatoes, and use in 
place of the raw tomatoes two quart cans of sealed toma- 
toes. 



calf's head soup. — TOMATO SOUP, ETC. IT 

Calfs Head Soup. 

Take the head, pluck and feet. Put them into a pot 
with cold water. Be careful to skim well when it boils. Chop 
a dozen small onions and let them all boil together until 
the meat cleaves from the bones. Then strain it. After 
putting the liquor into the pot again, add thyme, cloves, 
salt, pepper and cayenne to your taste. Cut all thi meat 
from the head and feet, half the liver and lights, the whole 
of the heart and tongue ; put all into the pot and boil 
about three-quarters of an hour. Before it is done take 
half a pound of butter with as much flour as will make into 
balls ; stir until dissolved. Then add a pint of port 
wine, four hard boiled eggs cut in slices, and a lemon to 
improve the flavor. This will make two gallons, and may 
be kept several weeks, to be used asoccasion requires. 



Tomato Soup. 

One quart of water, eight good sized ripe tomatoes cut up; 
boil twenty minutes and add one half teaspoonful of soda, 
then boil and add one pint or more of milk, and season as 
you do oysters. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

One quart of black beans soaked over night, boiled until 
soft and mashed through a cullender ; have ready two 
quarts of soup made of beef bones, add the beans, and boil 
about half an hour ; have in the tureen two hard boiled 
eggs cut up, and slices of lemon, half teaspoonful brown 
sugar, a pinch of powdered cloves, cinnamon, black pep- 
per and salt ; a wine glass of sherry, and half a dozen 
force-meat balls. 



12 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One quart of black beans soaked over night i-i four 
quarts of water, one pound of beef, half pound of salt 
pork. Grate one large or two small carrots, and slice one 
large onion, and add to the beans and the water iii which 
they were soaked. Boil all together three or foui hours, 
then strain through a cullender. When in the tureen add 
two gills of port wine, one sliced lemon and one sliced or 
chopped boiled egg. 



Black Bean Soup, No. 2. 

Mash and put them into a pot with proper quantity of 
water, boil until thoroughly done, then dip them out of the 
pot and press through a cullender. Return the beans to 
the water, boil two or three eggs hard and put into the 
soup with sliced lemon ; add butter, pepper and salt. 



Pea Soup. 

One quart of split peas, two pounds of salt pork, five 
quarts of water. Boil five hours, and strain through a 
sieve while hot. 



Oyster Soup. 

To four cans of oysters, twelve crackers rolled fine, two 
quarts of boiling water, one pint of good rich milk. Let 
the milk and water come to a boil, add the crackers, salt 
and pepper, boil one minute briskly ; pour in the oysters 
and let all boil up again, and then add about a quarter of 
a pound of butter and they are done. 



OYSTER SOUP. 13 

Oyster Soup, No. 2. 

To one quart of oysters add one quart of water ; pour 
the water on the oysters and stir them ; take them out one 
at a time, so that no small particle of shell may adhere to 
them ; strain the liquor through a seive and put it in a 
stew pan over the fire, with two or three blades of mace, 
and season with red pepper and salt to taste ; when this 
boils put in your oysters, add a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
to a paste with one ounce of butter; let them boil again, 
then add one half pint of cream and serve hot. 



14 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



OYSTERS AND FISH. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Put the oysters with the broth to boil, and when they 
begin to curl, skim them out of the kettle into a pan of 
cold water ; let them lie in the water until the broth has 
been skimmed and seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, 
add mace if you like ; then drain off the water and return 
the oysters to the broth. When they begin to boil up 
again they are ready to serve, and will be found to be more 
I)lump and hard by the process. 

(jriddled Oysters. 

Heat a griddle very hot, butter it and lay large oysters 
all over it ; when brown on one side, turn as you do grid- 
dle cakes. They should be washed first from the liquor, 
and this must be boiled and skimmed, and turned over the 
oysters when served, first seasoning it with butter, salt and 
pepper; serve on bread or cracker toast. 

Oyster Pie. 

Two cans of oysters, or three pints of solid oysters, one 
quart of cream, one dozen rolled crackers, pepper, salt, etc. 
Stir all together and pour into a dish lined with thick puff 
paste, cover with another paste and bake three-quarters of 
an hour. This is a delicious mode of cooking oysters. 

Fried Oysters. 

Select the largest, drain them on a cloth or hair sieve, 
dip them in rolled cracker crumbs that have been seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; fry in equal parts of butter and 
lard until they are browned. 



OYSTERS BROILED ON THE SHELL, ETC. 1$ 

Oysters Broiled on the Shell. 

The oysters should be of the largest size. Clean the 
shells with a stiff brush, then open, and save the juice ; 
turn boiling water over the oysters for only a minute or 
two ; drain it off, and lay the oysters on one-half of the 
shell, putting it on a well heated gridiron over a very hot 
fire. Boil the liquor that came from the oysters when 
opened, add it to the shells with a sprinkle of salt, pepper, 
and a bit of butter, serve hot on the shells, laid on large 
platters. 



Chicken and Oyster Croquettes. 

Take equal quantities of chicken and oysters, chopped 
fine, with a cup of sifted bread crumbs and a piece of but- 
ter ; season with salt and pepper, and^ if liked, a little mace. 
Moisten with one or two well beaten eggs. Form into 
long, slender rolls, and fry in lard to a light brown ; 
serve on a napkin, and garnish with celery tops or parsley, 
and slices of lemon. 



Fricasseed Oysters. 

Drain the liquor from a quart of oysters, strain half a 
pint and put in a porcelain kettle and when it boils put in 
the oysters. Have a tablespoonful of flour rubbed well 
into two tablespoonsfuls of butter. When the oysters begin 
to swell, stir in the butter and flour, cook until the oysters 
are white and plump ; then add a gill of cream, and pep- 
per and salt. 



1 6 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

To Pry Oysters with Batter. 

Take fine large oysters, beat as many eggs with cream 
(say 2 eggs to a cup of cream), as will moisten all the 
oysters required ; dip the oyster thoroughly into this mix- 
ture and then cover well with cracker crumbs which have 
been seasoned with salt, pepper and a little mace, if de- 
sired. Put into your frying pan or spider equal quantities 
of butter and lard, and when hot fry the prepared oysters 
to a delicate brown tint and serve hot. If preferred, add 
three tablespoonfuls of flour to the eggs and cream and 
omit the cracker crumbs. 



Unsurpassed Fricasseed Oysters. 

For one can of oysters use one pint of thin cream ; clean 
all the liquor from the oysters and put them over steam 
until hot ; at the same time thicken the cream with flour 
and season with salt, pepper and a small pinch of mace, 
and the same of cinnamon and a very little butter ; cook 
this well, and when done thoroughly, add to it the liquor 
of the oysters which has been scalded and well skimmed 
until clear ; then add the oysters, letting them remain just 
long enough to get plump, (if left too long, they grow 
tough). Have ready some toast on a platter and pour 
the whole over it, or have leaves and triangles of rich 
paste around the dish and partially moistened by the 
fricassee. 



Fish Chowder. 

Quarter pound of pork, cut in pieces ; put in bottom of 
pot and fry out. Put slices of potatoes on this, then 
layer of fish cut up, two onions, sliced, and layer of soda- 
crackers. Then pour boiling water over till well covered. 
Boil 25 minutes. 



TURBOT.— ^PICKLED FISH. — FISH CHOWDER, ETC. I^ 

Turbot. 

Take a fine large white fish, steam until tender ; take 
out the bones and sprinkle with pepper and salt. For the 
dressing, heat one pint of milk and thicken with one- 
quarter pound of flour. When cool add two eggs and 
one quarter pound of butter. Put in the baking dish a 
layer offish, then a layer of sauce, until full. Season with 
onions, parsley and thyme. Cover the top with bread 
crumbs and bake half an hour. 



Pickled Fish. 

Skin the fish and pack in a deep dish, cover with olive 
oil or butter; spice with vinegar, season with pepper, 
cloves, cinnamon and allspice and salt; scald and pour 
over the fish, cover closely and bake until done. 



Cul de Sac or Pish Chowder. 

Boil 3 pounds of fresh cod, rock or other fresh white 
fish; pick it fine and free from bones, season with pepper, 
salt, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, a wineglass of 
wine ; take one quart of milk, slice in it two small onions, and 
boil until they are soft; strain it and thicken with butter 
and flour to the consistency of thick drawn butter. Put a 
layer of dressing and fish alternately, shape into a round 
or oval form, cover with grated bread crumbs, and bake 
nicely. It can be served upon the same platter in which 
it is browned, by placing muffin-rings under it in a pan of 
water while baking. 



l8 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



BEEF, POULTRY AND GAME. 

Boast Beef. 

Wash the joint and wipe it dry ; then place it on a pan, 
with the fat and skin side up; put into a hot oven, 
and when the heat has started enough of the oil 
of the fat to baste with, open the oven, and drawing the 
pan toward you, take up a spoonful of the grease and pour 
over the meat for a few times, closing the door immediate- 
ly; this should be repeated four or five times during the 
process of roasting. When nearly done sprinkle with salt, 
and baste. Have ready a warm platter, and when the 
meat is dished drain off the grease, carefully keeping back 
the rich, brown juice which has exuded from the meat. 

This remaining gravy leave in the pan, placing it on the 
stove and adding about a gill of water, let it come to a 
boil and then pour it over the meat. If a made gravy is 
preferred, more water should be added and a little flour. 
Salt hardens and toughens meat, therefore in beef and 
mutton it should not be put on till it is cooked. It is also 
necessary to have the oven hot in order that the heat may 
quickly sear the surface, which will prevent the juice from 
escaping. It is obvious, if water is put in the pan, this 
quick searing cannot be effected ; water cannot be raised 
above a certain temperature (its boiling point) while fat 
is susceptible of a much greater degree of heat, and, 
therefore, as a basting agent is preferable. Beef roasted 
before a fire has a flavor inexpressiby finer than that done 
in an oven. 



BEEF A LA MODE. — BONED TURKEY. 1 9 

Eeef a la Mode. 

Take the bone out of a small round of beef, cut some 
salt pork in strips, about the size of your two fingers, and 
the thickness of the beef; dip them in vinegar and roll 
them in the following seasoning: One grated nutmeg; 
one tablespoonful of black pepper, one of ground cloves, one 
of allspice and one of salt ; parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram 
and summer savory; then cut openings about four inches 
apart all through the beef and insert them. Make a rich stuf- 
fing with bread crumb, etc., lay it over the top. Put the 
whole into a covered pan, pour over it a pint of sour wine 
and let it stand in the oven for six hours. The addition of 
vegetables, one large onion, four carrots and two turnips, 
chopped fine, is a great improvement. Half an hour be- 
fore serving skim off the fat, take up the round and veget- 
ables, and add a teacup of port wine and a little browned 
flour to the gravy ; this is as delightful a dish as a turkey, 
when it is no longer in season. 



Boned Turkey. 

This favorite dish for evening parties may be thus pre- 
pared : Boil a turkey in as little water as may be, until 
the bones can be easily separated from the meat. Remove 
all the skin; slice, mixing together the light and dark 
parts. Season with salt and pepper. Take the liquid in 
which the turkey was boiled, having kept it warm, pour it 
on the meat; mix well. Shape it like a loaf of bread, wrap 
it in a cloth or put it into an oval shaped dish and press 
with a heavy weight for a few hours. When served up, it 
is cut in thin slices. Chickens can be prepared in the 
same way. A spoonful of butter and flour braided together 
and stirred into the water for boiling is an improve 
ment. 



20 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Spiced Beef. 

Take a piece of beef from the forequarter, weighing ten 
pounds. Those who like fat should select a fatty piece ; 
those who prefer lean may take the shoulder clod, or up- 
per part of the fore leg. Take one pint of salt, one tea- 
cup of molasses or brown sugar, one tablespoon of ground 
cloves, allspice and pepper, and two tablespoons of pulver- 
ized saltpetre. Place the beef in a deep pan ; rub with this 
mixture. Turn and rub each side twice a day for a week. 
Then wash off the spices ; put in a pot of boiling water, 
and, as often as it boils hard, turn in a teacupful of cold 
water. It must simmer for five hours, on the back part of 
the stove. Press under a heavy weight till it is cold, and 
you will never desire to try corned beef of the butcher again. 
Your pickle will do for another ten pounds of beef, first 
rubbing into it a handful of salt. It can be renewed and 
a piece kept in preparation every day. This is good to 
pickle tongues also. 



A nice way to Cook Pigeons. 

Stuff the birds with a rich bread dressing; place com- 
pactly in an iron or earthen dish ; season with salt, pepper 
and butter (or if you like best thin slices of salt pork over the 
top), dredge thickly with flour and neirly cover them with 
water. Then put over a closely fitting plate or cover, and 
place the dish in a moderate oven, from two to four or even 
five hours, according to the age of the birds. If the birds 
are old and ioiigh this is the best way they can be cooked, 
and they may be made perfectly tender and much sweeter 
than by any other process, [f the gravy \z insufficient add 
a little water before dishing. 



BRUNSWICK STEW. — RICE AND CHICKEN PIE, ETC. 21 

Brunswick Stew. 

Two chickens, whole, nine quarts of water ; boil till ten- 
der, take out skin and bones and return to the kettle, adding 
six potatoes previously soaked an hour in cold water and 
chopped very fine, also one pint of sweet corn, one quart 
of tomatoes; boil two hours. Before dishing, add two hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine, and one in slices, a piece of but- 
ter the size of a hen's egg, fourteen hard crackers, a little 
salt, very little red pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of 
Worcestershire Sauce. To be served like soup. ^ 



Rice and Chicken Pie. 

Boil a pint or more of rice ; stir in a spoonful of butter, 
a Httle milk, two eggs and a little salt. Fricassee two chick- 
ens. Cover the bottom of a long dish with rice, then a 
layer of chicken, and so on until it is full. Save out some 
of the gravy of the fricassee to eat on the rice. Cover the 
whole with the yolk of an egg and brown it. Curry may 
be put into the chicken if liked. One chicken makes a 
good sized dish. 



To Boil a Chicken or Turkey.. 

It is not every housewife who knows how best to boil a 
chicken. Plain, artless boiling is apt to produce a yellow- 
ish, slimy looking fowl. Before cooking, the bird should 
always be well washed in tepid water and lemon juice, and 
to insure whiteness, delicacy and succulence, should be 
boiled in a paste of flour and water, and after being put in 
the boiling water should be allowed to simmer slowly. 
This method is very effectual in preserving all the juices of 
the fowl, and the result is a more toothsome and nourish- 
ing morsel than the luckless bird which has been "galloped 
to death" in plain boiling. 



2 2 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Boil and peel the potatoes and let them become cold. 
Then cut them into rather thick slices. Put a lump of 
fresh butter into a stew pan, and add a little flour — about 
a teaspoonful for a middling sized dish. When the flour 
has boiled a little while in the butter, add by degrees a 
cupful of broth or water. When this has boiled up, put in 
the potatoes with chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Let 
the potatoes stew a few minutes, then take them from the 
fire, and, when quite off the boil, add the yolk of an egg, 
beaten up with a little lemon juice and a tablespoonful of 
cold water. As soon as the sauce has set, the potatoes 
may be dished up and sent to table. 



Boiled Potatoes. 

Potatoes in the spring begin to shrivel and should be 
soaked in cold water several hours before cooking. Put 
them over the fire in cold water [without salt], and when 
done drain off the water, returning them to the fire for a 
minute or two, but not long enough to endanger burning ; 
then throw in a little salt, take hold of the handle and toss 
the kettle in such a way that the potatoes will be thrown 
up and down. When they look white and floury they are 
ready to dish for the table. New potatoes should always 
be put into boiling water, and it is better to prepare them 
only just in time for cooking. 



FRIED POTATOES. — SARATOGA POTATOES. 23 

Pried Potatoes. 

Pare and slice the potatoes thin — if sliced in small flakes 
they look more inviting than when cut in larger pieces — 
keep in ice-water two or three hours — then drain them 
dry, or dry them on a crash towel, and drop them into 
boiling lard ; when nearly done take them out with a skim- 
mer and drain them. Let them get cold, and then drop 
them again into boiling lard, and fry until well done. This 
last operation causes them to swell up and puff out ; sprin- 
kle with salt, and serve hot — our receipt says : but many 
like them cold as a relish for tea or with cold meats. 



Saratoga Potatoes. 

Peel good sized potatoes and cut as thin as your cab- 
bage cutter will slice them, and throw into cold water. 
After soaking an hour wipe them dry, and drop into boil- 
ing lard till a light brown. Skim them out into a cullender 
and sprinkle with salt while hot. 



Spring Vegetables and how to Cook them. 

In March and April Salsify, or Oyster plant, is a pleasant 
change from boiled turnips and cabbage, and can be pre- 
pared in various ways. 

First way : Grate a bunch or two of salsify as you would 
horse-radish, add a raw egg beaten, and a little bread 
crumbs or flour, and fry in a frying-pan, as you would 
oysters. Parsnips prepared in this way, are extremely nice. 

Second way: Cut your salsify into round lozenges, par- 
boil ; throw it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and heat 
through, but do not fry brown; turn over this enough soup 
stock, or the boilings from steak or other bones, to cover 
it; thicken with a little flour and butter braided together, 
add pepper and salt, and you have a nice dish. 



24 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Asparagus. 

While this vegetable is sold on the market at such an 
extravagant price, it is well to know how to make all of it 
available. Cut off the green ends, then chop the remain- 
der of the stalk into small pieces, as you would string 
beans; boil tliese until they are thoroughly tender, and 
add the green part a few minutes before serving. Have 
ready some toasted bread, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, having water enough to moisten the toast. Or, if 
preferred to keep the bunches whole, set them on end in a 
small sauce pan, leaving the green above water, and boil 
till the white part is tender. The steam meantime will 
cook the tops sufficiently. 

Asparagus should be boiled in fresh water, and when 
thoroughly cooked taken out, salted, laid lengthwise upon 
a piece of toast in a deep dish ; pour over a sauce for 
Asparagus, made after this fashion : Take equal parts of 
flour and butter, a tablespoonful of each ; mix thoroughly, 
add water and a little salt ; cook in a stew-pan ; when done 
remove from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. 
Some persons cut asparagus into inch long pieces, but a 
genuine ^'bonvivant^^ prefers to eat only so much as ghdes 
off into his mouth from the four inch long stalk. 



Boiled Oanlifiower. 

To each half a gallon of water allow one heaped tea- 
spoonful of salt. Choose cauliflowers that are close and 
white. Trim off" the decayed outside leaves, cut the stalk 
off flat at the bottom. Open the flowers a little to remove 
the insects and let lie in salt and water with the head down 
for an hour before cooking ; then put them into fast boiling 
water with the addition of salt as above. Skim well and 
boil till tender. Serve with melted butter or delicate drawn 
butter poured over. 



TO STEW CABBAGE. — CABBAGE JELLY, ETC. 25 

To Stew Cabbage. 

Parboil in milk and water and drain it, then shred it. 
put it into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, a small 
cupful of cream, and seasoning, and stew tender. 



Cabbage Jelly. 

Boil a cabbage in the usual way, and squeeze it in a cul- 
lender till perfectly dry, then chop fine ; add a little butter, 
pepper and salt; press the whole very closely into an 
earthenware mould, and bake one hour, either in an oven 
or in front of the fire. 



Cole Slaw. 

Sprinkle a quart of finely chopped cabbage with salt, and 
let it stand an hour ; drain off the brine into a sauce-pan ; 
pour half a pint of strong vinegar, a piece of butter [size of a 
hickory nut], a teaspoonful of strong mustard [after it has 
been stirred with water], and half the same of pepper; 
when it boils stir in two well-beaten eggs, and three table- 
spoonfuls of sweet cream ; pour hot on the cabbage, and 
have it cold when it is to be served. A very delicious 
relish with meats. 



Badishes. 

Prof. Blot says cut off the root and all. the leaves, but 
the center one, or stalk. This should always be left on and 
eaten, as it contains an element which assists in the diges- 
tion of the radish. Split the radish up into stems, and 
leave whole at the top; serve in fresh ice-water. 



26 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Com Oysters. 

One dozen grated ears of sweet corn, three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, two do. of flour, one do. of melted butter, 
one egg well beaten ; mix and bake in small cakes on a 
griddle. 



Corn Oysters No. 2. 

One teacup of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of flour and a pinch of salt. Beat all well together and 
with this stir the corn cut from one dozen ears or more, 
according to the size, enough to make a thick mass, having 
just batter enough to bind it together. Drop it by the 
tablespoonful into a frying pan with enough hot butter or 
drippings to keep it from burning. Serve on a platter, hot. 

Boiled Leg of Mntton Soup. 

Grate twelve ears of corn, and add to broth left from leg 
cooked day before; season, and if wished add meat balls 
or soup herbs. 



BREAD, BISCUIT AND YEAST. 2^ 



BREAD, BISCUIT AND YEAST. 

Brown Bread. 

One quart of corn meal, one pint of Rye or Graham flour, 
one quart of sour milk, one teacup of molasses, and one 
teaspoonful of soda. Steam four hours or bake one hour. 
This quantity will make two loaves. 



Corn Bread. 

One quart of Indian meal, two ounces of butter, as much 
warm milk as will make a stiff batter, four eggs, a little salt. 
Beat the whole well together, and bake in shallow tins in a 
moderate oven. 



Mrs. A.'s Corn Bread. 

Two cupfuls of corn meal, two cupfuls of flour, one cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one cupful of sour milk, one-half cupful 
of sugar, two eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt. 



Phillis' Corn Bread. 

One pint of sour milk, one-half pint of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of lard or butter. White Indian meal stirred in 
to make a batter thick as for muffins. If the meal is per- 
fectly sweet stir it in dry. If not, scald it first. ^ 



28 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Graham Bread, 

One quart of Graham flour, three-quarters of a cup of 
yeast, one quart of water, warm, one cup of molasses. Let 
this rise over night. Mix with wheat flour in the morning 
into a stiff loaf; let it rise a second time ; afterwards put in- 
to loaves to rise for baking. Very good. 



Graham Gems. 

One pint of milk, one cup of wheat flour, one cup of 
Graham flour, one egg, a little salt. Bake in heated tins. 



Drop Biscuits. 

Three cups of sweet milk, four cups of flour, into which 
put two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and pass the flour through a sieve. Mix with 
the batter, butter the size of an egg, and a little salt. Drop 
into greased tins, or mufiin rings, and bake in a quick 
oven. 



Parker House Rolls. 

Scald a little more than a pint of milk, let it stand till 
cold ; two quarts of flour ; make a hole in the middle of the 
flour after rubbing into it a tablespoonful of lard or butter, 
then add a half teacup of yeast, a little sugar, salt and the 
milk, and cover with the flour. Let it stand until morning, 
then work until smooth. When it is light roll out and cut 
with a pint pail cover; rub it over with a little butter and 
lap over like a turnover, then let them rise and bake 
twenty minutes. They are splendid and never fail if the 
directions are followed. 



LIGHT BISCUIT. — FRENCH ROLLS. RUSKS. 29 

Light Biscuit. 

With one quart of boiled milk when nearly cold mix a 
thick sponge, add half a cup of good hop yeast, beat fifteen 
minutes. Let it rise four or five hours, or over night; 
then add two-thirds of a cup of shortening, (butter and lard 
half and half), two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt, 
stirring in the flour with a large wooden spoon until the 
dough cleaves from the spoon. Roll out to an inch or less 
in thickness; mould into cakes and let them stand in a 
warm place till thoroughly light. Bake in a quick oven. 



French Rolls. • 

One pint of milk, one quart of flour, whites of two eggs, 
one tablespoonful of white sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg. First take the milk and flour, with a tablespoon- 
ful of yesLSt, and make a sponge. If made of baker's or 
home-made yeast, it can be set at night. When the sponge 
is light, add the other ingredients and set to rise again ; roll 
out to half an inch in thickness; cut with an oval cutter; 
bake in a quick oven. 



Busks. 

One cup of yeast, one bowl of milk, three eggs, salt, one- 
quarter of a pound of butter, enough flour to mix not so hard 
as bread dough. Knead the biscuits in the hand from the 
pan without rolling out, to make them more soft and 
spongy. 



30 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Old School Presbyterian Yeast. 

Boil two good handfuls of good hops in three quarts of 
water. Strain. When cool stir in one quart of flour, one 
cup of sugar, and a handful of salt. Cover this in a stone 
jar, and let it stand three days in a warm place, stirring it 
occasionally. On the fourth day add one quart of nicely 
mashed potatoes. Let it stand until the day following, 
when it will be ready for use. A small teacup is sufficient 
for five loaves of bread. 

This yeast which has proved most reliable, needs noth- 
ing to start it, as it is self-raising, and if kept in a cool place 
will keep six weeks in the summer, and three months in 
cold weather. 

It does not foam as do other kinds of yeast, so that one 
who had not used it would think it worthless, but if once 
used its excellency will not be doubted. 

In making bread, a tablespoonful of white sugar to a 
quart of flour is a great improvement to all kinds of bread- 



Joanna's Yeast. 

Peel and wash five good sized potatoes and boil in two 
quarts of water, then mash and add two small cups of flour, 
a handful of salt, and an even cup of sugar, white or brown; 
add potatoes and flour together, and mix slowly in the scald- 
ing water in which the potatoes were boiled, and strain all 
through the cullender. Then add the sugar, salt, and a 
cup of yeast, baker's or home made, or a yeast cake ; keep 
in a warm place until it rises, and then put away in an 
earthern crock. 

Bread made with the above yeast. — Sift two quarts of 
flour and add a little salt, boil three or four potatoes and 
mash in three pints of water and stir in with a cup full of 
yeast. Keep in a warm place over night. 



HOP YEAST. — ESTHER S BREAD. TO SPONGE BREAD. 3 1 

Hop Yeast. 

Of pressed hops, break up fine about enough to make a 
teacupful; boil them in one quart of water for half an hour. 
At the same time boil in another kettle ten or twelve pota- 
toes (peeled) in a quart of water ; when thoroughly done 
mash the potatoes and pour the water back over them. . If 
the water is boiled away restore the quantity. Have ready 
two quarts of sifted flour ; strain the hop water on to it, and 
add the potato gruel; when luke-warm put in a teacupful 
of good yeast, or a yeast cake, and a little salt. After it is 
thoroughly light it should be kept in a stone jug or jar in a 
cool place. 

Esther's Bread. 

To make the yeast. — Take ten or twelve potatoes from 
the dinner pot, wet two teacupfuls of flour with two cups 
of boiling potato water, add one teacup of white sugar 
and one heaping tablespoonful of salt; raise twenty-four 
hours with a Twin Brother or Waterloo Yeast Cake. This 
will last a week or ten days. One cup and a half is enough 
for four loaves of the bread. Scald skim milk ; when cool 
enough sponge your bread at night; in the morning work 
it well, let it rise, then put it in the pan and rise again ; 
bake in a quick oven. 

To Sponge Bread. 

Sift four quarts of flour into a deep pan, sprinkle a dessert 
spoonful of salt over it. Make a hole in the center and add 
by degrees three pints of luke warm water or skim milk ; 
stir the flour into this till it reaches the consistency of a very 
thick cream ; add one-and-a-half cups of Esther's Yeast, or 
one cup of Joanna's Yeast, or two yeast cakes, or five cents 
worth of compressed or German Yeast, or three cents' 
worth of bakers' yeast, or two tablespoonfuls of brewers' 
yeast. German and brewers' yeast require but two hours, 
the others all night, to raise them. 



32 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



TEA AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Tea Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, into which mix three heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; lard, size of a hen's egg, rub- 
bed into the flour and salt ; wet with milk or water to as 
soft a consistency as can be rolled out, then bake in a quick 
oven. 



Muffins. 

One quart of sweet milk, three pints of flour, two eggs, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, one-half of a 
cup of yeast. Let the batter rise three or four hours and 
bake in mufiin rings, on a griddle. 



Flannel Cakes. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of yeast, one 
tablespoonful of butter, melted, two eggs well beaten, one 
teaspoonful of salt, flour to make a good batter. Set the 
rest of the ingredients as a sponge over night, and in the 
morning add the melted butter and eggs. 



Sally Lunn— A Supper Dish. 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one cup of milk, two eggs, three small cups of flour ; 
one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
or two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



WAFFLES. — INDIAN MUFFINS. — PONE, ETC. 33 

Waffles. 

Four coffee cups of sweet milk, three eggs, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, one and or.e half teaspoonfuls of soda, 
four teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, flour enough to make 
a thin batter. 



Indian Muffins. 

One quart of milk, eight eggs, one and a half cups of but- 
ter, one cup of flour, two cups of Indian meal, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and a 
little salt ; two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Beat well together 
and bake in muffin rings. 

(This receipt is from a reliable source, but we can only 
recommend it to those who have eggs and butter in abun- 
dance.) 



Pone. 

Boil one quart of milk, with which scald a pint of nice 
corn meal. Beat five eggs, whites and yolks separately ; 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg, and a teaspoonful 
of salt. Stir all together thoroughly, and bake immediate- 
ly, while it is still hot. This quantity makes two nice loaves, 
and should be baked half an hour. 



Corn Muffins. 

Three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, two cups 
of sweet milk, two cups of sour milk, or butter-milk, half a 
cup of molasses, one egg, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
soda. Have the iron-clads hot before putting in the bat- 
ter. 



34 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS 

Puffs. 

One quart of sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg, melted, milk enough to make a thick batter. 
Drop in spoonfuls on dripping pan and bake. 



Potato Cake. 

Take six nicely mashed potatoes, add to this one pint 
of warm milk, a tablespoonful of lard^ a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a quart of sifted flour. Let this be raised with a small 
quantity of German yeast or a portion of Twin Brothers' 
yeast cake, or a half cup of home-made. When ready to 
make up, which will be in about two hours, knead up to 
the consistency of biscuits and cut with a biscuit cutter ; lay 
in a dripping pan and stand in a warm place till tea time. 
These biscuits will bake in ten minutes in a quick oven. 



Sally Lnnn, No. 2. 

Seven cups of sifted flour, half a cup of butter, warmed 
in one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, three well beat- 
en eggs, two tablespoonfuls of brewers' yeast or four of 
home-made. Pour into square tins and let rise two or four 
hours before baking. 



Corn Bread. 

Three cups of flour, four cups of corn meal, one egg, 
two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one quart of sour milk, soda 
and salt. Steam three hours and bake half an hour. If 
you do not have sour milk, sweet milk and baking powder 
will answer as well. 



HOW TO MAKE MUSH. CORN CAKE. 35 

How tc Make Mush, 

One of the earliest literary productions of this country 
that attracted attention, was a poem by Joel Barlow, en- 
titled " The Hasty Pudding." In it he sings the praises of 
this old New England dish, and takes exceptions to its be- 
ing called mush, samp, or any name except the one our 
fathers gave. Mush, or hasty pudding, as he would have 
us call it, is an American dish, and, until lately, has never 
been met with over the water. But notwithstanding the 
fact of its antiquity, its wonderful cheapness and its undis- 
puted excellence, very few people know how to make this 
dish as it should be. The ingredients for a dish of mush 
are water, salt and corn meal. The water should be soft, 
and the salt fine, and the meal of the first quality ; yellow 
meal gives the best color, but white meal is the more easily 
cooked. The water should be boiling hot at the com- 
mencement, middle and end of the operation. The meal 
should be added very slowly, so as to prevent any lumps 
being formed, the cook stirring all the time, and should 
never be in such quantities as would bring down the tem- 
perature of the water below the boiling point. Herein lies 
the secret of making good mush. The reason that it re- 
quires a high degree of heat to cook Indian corn is, that the 
starch globules are very hard and compact, and require 
more heat to expand them than the starch particles con- 
tained in rice. Mush should be thoroughly cooked, but 
the cook must guard against its burning, by continual stir- 
ring. — Prairie Farmer, 



Corn Cake, No. 1. 

One pint of Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one egg, one pint of milk, a small 
piece of butter. Bake in shallow paijs. 



36 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Corn Cake, No. 2. 

One and a half cups of Indian meal, one cup of flour, one 
and a half cups of milk, one egg, one cup of molasses, one 
teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. 

Good Ann's Receipt for Waffles. 

A pint bowl of sour cream or buttermilk (I have known 
her in town to use store milk with about three ounces of but- 
ter in it, though, of course, the results were not quite the 
same), a pint bowl heaped with sifted flour, three eggs, and 
a teaspoonful of soda, stirred well in a tablespoonful of hot 
water and then into the cream, and half a teaspoonful of 
salt. To be baked in an iron at just the right shade of 
heat (be sure and not have it too hot to start with) ; butter 
well and eat with powdered sugar or sugar and cinnamon. 

Graham Pop-Overs. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one quart of sweet milk, 
four well beaten eggs and a pinch of salt. Have ready the 
pop-over irons, and. bake as quickly as possible. 

Flannel Cakes. 

One cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of yeast, whites of 
two eggs, two-thirds of a cup of butter, flour enough to 
make a thick batter, set to rise over night and in the morn- 
ing add whites and butter. Bake in cups. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA RELISHES. 37 



BREAKFAST AND TEA RELISHES. 

Omelet. 

Six eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, a little salt. Melt the butter in 
half the milk, wet the flour smoothly in the other half; beat 
the yolks of the eggs and add in the milk, then stir in the 
whites lightly beaten to a stiff froth. Cook one-third at a 
time, turning one-half over the other just before taking up. 



Omelet. 

Five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. One tea- 
cupful of milk, a teaspoonful of flour, and a little salt. 
Beat these ingredients together very thoroughly, and bake 
about fifteen minutes, in a pudding dish that has been well 
buttered, or pour into a hot frying pan and stir till cook- 
ed. 



Ham Toast, 

One-fourth of a pound of lean ham, chopped fine ; beat 
well the yolks of three eggs ; one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream or good milk. Stir 
over the fire till it thickens ; spread on hot toast. 



Veal Omelet. 

Three pounds of fresh veal and two pounds of salt pork, 
chopped fine ; three eggs ; six crackers, rolled ; one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of pepper, and a little parsley. Roll 
into an oblong form and baste with butter while it is bak- 
ing. This makes a nice relish, cold sliced for tea. 



38 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Omelet. 

Four eggs, beat yolks and whites separately , one table- 
spoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter; add nearly a cup of milk. Pour all except 
the whites of the eggs into a pail, stand it on the stove in a 
pot of boiling water ; when it commences to thicken add 
the whites, stirring gradually ; after a few moments pour 
into a dish and set it in the oven to brown. 

Baked Omelet. 

Heat three gills of milk with a dessert spoonful of butter 
in it, beat thoroughly four or five eggs, wet a tablespoonful 
of flour and a teaspoonful of salt in a little cold milk. 
Mix the eggs with the flour and cold milk and add the hot 
milk stirring fast. Bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 



Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of veal cutlets and a small piece of salt 
pork chopped together very fine (uncooked) ; one teacup- 
ful of cracker crumbs moistened with a little water ; one 
egg ; season with salt and pepper. Bake one and one half 
hours, and slice when cold. Add savory or sage, if liked, 
when mixing. 



Veal Casserole. 

Twelve pounds of very lean veal, chop raw quite fine ; 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one-half pound of but- 
ter crackers, dried and rolled, one pint of water, pepper 
and salt to your taste. Mix well together and bake slowly 
four hours in a pan lined with buttered paper. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES, ETC. 39 

Chicken Croquettes. 

To one good sized chicken (after having been boiled 
and finely chopped) add one pint of rich cream, four eggs, 
butter the size of an egg, and a handful of flour. Flavor 
with nutmeg, cayenne pepper and salt. Cook over a slow 
fire until it is of the consistency of paste, then put into the 
refrigerator until thoroughly cold ; mould into oval pat- 
ties. Paint the croquettes with the yolks of three eggs and 
roll into bread crumbs, after which brown them nicely in a 
little butter and serve hot. With two sweetbreads added 
this receipt makes two dozen croquettes. 



Breakfast Balls or Croquettes. 

A little cold mutton or beef, or both ; a slice of cold 
ham; a small quantity of fine bread crumbs; a bit of sage, 
parsley or thyme. Chop well together : add one egg, a lit- 
tle melted butter, pepper and salt. Make up in flattened 
balls, dredge with flour and fry in hot lard. They are 
very nice. 



Cheese as Food. 

In his Philosophy of Eating, Professor A. J. Bellows 
says of cheese : 

" Cheese has in it more than twice the amount of food of 
any other known substance. It should therefore be used 
in small quantities, and with articles containing little nitro- 
gen, such as fruits and fine flour. Those persons whose 
occupation necessitates hard labor, and who cannot afford 
much fresh meat, will find in cheese a most wholesome as 
well as a most nutritious food, less expensive, and less likely 
to develop in the human system those scrofulous diseases 
attributed to animal food." 



40 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Chicken or Beef Croquettes. 

Take a cold chicken (roast or boiled), or cold roast beef 
or veal, mince it very fine or it will not adhere, moisten it 
with the gravy, season with pepper, salt, thyme or onion. 
Make it up into small cakes ; cover with egg and bread 
crumbs ; fry in lard and butter, half and half. 

rricatelli. 

This is made of any kind of cold roast meat or raw fresh 
pork. Chop the meat very fine, add a little salt and plenty 
of pepper (two onions chopped, if you please), bread soaked 
in water until soft, half as much bread as meat ; ttvo eggs ; 
mix well together, make into oblong patties and fry like 
oysters. Serve with sliced lemon, if used as a tea relish. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Quarter of a pound of melted butter, four eggs, half 
a pound of grated cheese, one teacupful of sweet cream. 
Melt the butter and pour on the eggs after they are well 
beaten, then add the cheese and cream. Bake about 
twenty minutes or cook in a frying pan. 

Welsh Rarebit, 

Take one-fourth of a pound of good fresh cheese ; cut in 
small thin slices and put in a frying pan with a little over a 
teacupful of sweet milk. Stir in a previously beaten egg, 
and add a salt-spoon full of dry mustard, two dashes of red 
pepper, and a small piece of butter, stirring the mixture 
constantly. Have ready rolled crackers and gradually stir 
them in. As soon as this is thoroughly incorporated, turn 
it out into a heated dish and serve, or omit the crackers 
and pour on hot buttered toast. 



BICHAMELLE, OR MINCED VEAL. FRITEURS. 4I 

Bichamelle, or Minced Veal. 

Mince your cold roast veal fine in a chopping bowl, 
leaving out the stringy part; put into your frying pan a 
teacupful (or more as the quantity requires), of milk or sweet 
cream, into which stir, when hot, a tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour, braided together ; then add your veal, 
heat it thoroughly through, grate a little nutmeg, or sprin- 
kle fine mace over it, and pour it into a dish that has a 
border of puff paste leaves spread around it (you can 
make your leaves when you are making pies, and just heat 
them in the oven a moment) ; then squeeze the juice of a 
lemon o\er the top of the minced veal, laying five or six 
leaves of paste on it, and serve. This was from old Mam- 
my Wood, and is delicious for breakfast. You can make 
veal patties of it by just enclosing it in paste and baking it. 



Friteurs. 

Put in a sauce pan a little butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour with soup stock if you have it, if not a little water 
until it thickens, then add minced turkey, chicken or veal, 
with a little salt. Take off" the fire and cool. Then make 
in any shape you please, say like small sausages half a 
finger long. Roll in cracker or brown bread crumbs and 
drop into lard until a delicate brown. 



42 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



CAKES. 



Loaf or Bread Cake. 



Two pounds of light dough, one pound of sugar, one- 
half pound of butter, three eggs, and one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the 
eggs, well beaten, and the saleratus. Work the mixture 
thoroughly into the dough, until it is entirely smooth. 
Flavor with one teaspoonful of ground mace and one grated 
nutmeg. A wine-glassful of wine or brandy and a coffee 
cupful of seeded raisins. A few thin bits of citron are an 
improvement. Put it as soon as mixed into a slow oven, 
and bake about one hour. This will make two ordinary 
sized loaves ; and if frosted is nearly as good as the old 
times Connecticut election cake. 



Trench Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one 
pound of currants washed clean and dredged with flour, 
two cups of flour, four eggs, nutmeg and cinnamon to 
taste, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of milk. 



Hickory Nut Cake. 

Two tea cups of white sugar, half a cup of butter, three 
cups of flour, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, a half 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk, a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, put into the flour, the whites of eight 
eggs. Just before baking add two teacupfuls of hickory 
nut meats. 



EXCELLENT FRUIT CAKE, ETC. 43 

Excellent Fruit Cake. 

One cup of brown sugar ; one-half cup of butter ; 
one cup of molasses ; one-half cup of sour milk ; two and 
one-half cups of flour ; yolks of four eggs ; cloves, allspice, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, each one-half teaspoonful ; and 
one teaspoonful of soda added to the milk. Then stir in 
one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one quarter 
of a pound of citron, all well dredged with flour. 

Mrs. H. M. D's Reliable Fmit Cake. 

One pound of light brown sugar, ten ounces of butter, 
eight eggs, broken into the butter and sugar, after it has 
been stirred to a cream ; one wine-glassful of brandy, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder in one pound of flour; mace 
and nutmeg; pour into a pan till half the quantity required 
is in, then cut slips of citron over the top and fill up the 
pan with the batter, this being an excellent way of putting 
in the citron ; add two pounds of raisins. 

Mrs. B's Receipt for "Washington Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, one and one-half pounds of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one scant pint of milk, 
to which add a gill of wine or brandy, five eggs, two large 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and two pounds of raisins, 
upon which scatter spices and flour well rubbed upon the 
fruit. 

Plain Fruit Cake, No. 2. 

One cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sweet milk, four cups of flour, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, two pounds of raisins chopped fine, 
spice to taste. 



44 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Almond Cake. 

One half cup of butter, two of sugar, two and a half 
of flour, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, one half a 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one pound of 
soft shelled almonds blanched by steeping in boihng water 
till the skins are loose enough to remove, and then sliced 
or rolled, adding while crushing them, two wine glasses of 
white wine; flavor with essence of bitter almond. Bake in 
a pan two inches deep. 



Cocoanut Cake, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two and three-fourths cups of sugar, 
three and three-fourths cups of flour, six eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one half teaspoonful of soda, one grated peel of 
lemon with juice. Bake in four sheets, cover each with 
frosting and spread on a thick layer of cocoanut, putting 
one on the other as for jelly cake. One cocoanut will be 
sufficient, and it is better to have it grated over night. 



Cocoanut Cake, No. 2. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, whites of six 
eggs, four and a half cups of sifted flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one half teaspoonful of soda, one grated 
cocoanut, one teacupful of milk. Rub the butter and 
sugar to a cream, beat the eggs to a froth, dissolve the soda 
in the milk, and mix the cream of tartar with the flour. 
After all are mixed together, put in the cocoanut, mixing 
thoroughly, and bake immediately. This cake will keep 
for some time, retaining its freshness. 



FRUIT CAKE.— CHOCOLATE CAKE, ETC. 45 

Fruit Cake, No. 3. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a cup 
of sour milk, four eggs, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two teaspoonfuls of lemon, two tablespoonfuls of 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, half a nutmeg, half a 
pound of raisins and a quarter of a pound of citron, makes 
two loaves; bake slowly. 



Chocolate Cake. 

One full cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a 
half cups of flour, one scant cup of milk, one half teaspoon- 
ful of bi-carbonate of soda, one-half teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, five eggs, leaving out the whites of two. 
Rub your butter and sugar (which if pulverized makes 
the best cakes) to a cream and add the eggs, then 
about two-thirds of the milk, then the flour, having the 
cream of tartar mixed with it, then the remainder of the 
milk in which you have dissolved the soda. Pour into a 
large dripping pan and bake so that the cake is an inch 
thick. While hot. and as soon as turned out on a cake 
box, tray, waiter or other perfectly flat surface, spread with 
an icing formed by beating the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, adding a cup and a half of pulverized sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of essence of vanilla, and six tablespoonfuls of 
grated vanilla chocolate. 



Lemon Cake. 

Four eggs, white and yolks beaten separately; one 
small cup of butter, two of sugar, one-fourth of a cup of 
sweet milk, four small cups of flour, half a teaspoonful 
of soda one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifted 
through the sugar. Bake in a loaf, and cut as for jelly 
cake. 



46 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Por Dressing. 

Take the white of one egg, sugar to make it the consis- 
tency of icing ; after beating thoroughly, add the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon ; spread this between the 
layers and ice the top. 



Apple Cake, 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one and 
a half teacupfuls of sugar, scant three-quarters of a teacup- 
ful of butter, half a cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifted in the flour, 
half a teaspoonful of soda in the milk. Bake in jelly tins 
or cut for dressing. 



Dressing, 

Three good sized sour apples grated, the juice and 
grated rind' of one lemon, one egg, beaten, one cup of 
sugar. Cook all together, three minutes, and spread be- 
tween the layers. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, two apples 
grated, one egg well beaten, and one cup of sugar. Put 
this mixture between layers of cake made after the receipt 
for ordinary jelly cake. 

Aunt Fanny's Loaf Cake. 

Six teacups of bread dough, five eggs, three teacups of 
sugar, one cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon, half a nutmeg, one and a half pounds of 
raisins. Bake in a moderate oven. 



RAILROAD CAKE LEMON HONEY CAKE, ETC. 47 

Hailroad Cake. 

One cup of sugar, OLe cup of flour, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half teaspoonful of 
soda (or one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder), 
a little salt ; beat all together as for sponge cake and 
spread on two square tins to bake. 

Make a custard of one-half pint of milk, one-half cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of flour, one egg ; wet the flour with a 
little milk, and stir into the milk boiling, then add the 
egg and sugar beaten together. Boil up and take off; 
flavor with a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
When cold spread between two layers of cake. This is 
very good for a dessert. 



Lemon Honey Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of corn starch, three cups of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; rub the 
butter and sugar to a cream, then add the milk, lastly the 
whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then the corn 
starch and flour to which has been added the baking 
powder; bake in jelly tins. 



Lemon Honey. 

Take one pound of loaf sugar, the yolks of eight eggs 
with two whole ones, juice of six lemons, grated rind of 
two, quarter of a pound of butter. Put the sugar, lemon and 
butter in a saucepan, melt over a gentle fire ; when all are 
dissolved stir in the eggs which have been well beaten ; 
stir rapidly until it is as thick as honey. Spread this 
between the layers of cake. Set aside the remainder in a 
closely covered vessel for future use. 



48 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Custard Cake— Good. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
a half cup of sweet milk, one and a half cups of flour ; 
baked in jelly tins ; let it cool ; one cup of milk, one 
teaspoonful of flour, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one 
egg, six teaspoonfuls of sugar; flavor to taste; spread 
like jelly. 



Rich Bread Cake. 

Three cups of light dough, three cups of sugar, one cut 
of butter, three eggs, one cup of raisins, a little nutmeg, 
a little cloves and cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water. Let it rise a short time before 
baking, and bake in a very slow oven. 



Wedding Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of brown sugar, eleven pounds of raisins, two pounds of 
citron, two gills of brandy, half an ounce of cinnamon, 
three-quarters of an ounce of cloves, one ounce of mace, 
one teacup of milk, twelve eggs ; chop part of the raisins 
and citron. 



Delicate Cake. 

One cup of butter beaten to a cream with two of sugar, 
add the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
and three and one-third cups of flour in which has been 
mixed one teaspoonful of baking powder, and one table - 
spoonful of essence of bitter almond. 



TO USE THE YOLKS OF EGGS, ETC. 49 

To use the Yolks of Eggs. 

One quart of scalding milk, to which add the yolks of 
eight eggs and one teacup of sugar ; stir just one minute 
before taking off the fire, and you have the genuine old- 
fashioned boiled custard. When cold, flavor with vanilla 
or bitter almonds. 



Jamaica Plains Lemon Cake. 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one of 
milk, five of flour, one lemon rind grated, half a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved well in the milk, and after all is well 
beaten, add the juice of the lemon and bake immediately. 



Spice Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, nearly four 
cups of flour, one cup almost full of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, or three 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Fruit and spices of all kinds 
in abundance. 

Q,uinc7 Cakes. 

One cup of butter, three teacups of powdered sugar, four 
teacups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful and a half of cream of tartar, juice 
and rind of one fresh lemon. Bake one and a half or two 
hours in one pan. 



Haised Cake, 



Three cups of light dough, three cups of sugar, one 
ip of butter, three eggs, fruit and spices ; bake in a slow 
^en. 



cup 
oven 



50 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

"Shoo Fly" (very nice). 

One cup of rich sour cream, one-half cup of butter, two 
cups of sugar, whites of four eggs, three cups of flour, 
flavor with citron or bitter almonds, add to the cream one- 
half teaspoonful or more of soda. 



Snow Cake. 

One tumbler full of flour, whites of ten eggs, one and a- 
half tumblers of fine sugar, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar stirred into the flour. Beat the eggs to a stiff" froth, 
stir in the sugar, and lastly the flour. Flavor with lemon 
or almond. Bake immediately. 



Black Cake, 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of sour milk, in which dissolve one 
teaspoonful of soda, the yolks of eight eggs, four cups of 
browned flour, and spices to your taste. 



Eugenia's Cake. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 



Qrove Cake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, four and a half cups of flour, eight eggs, 
omitting the yolks of four; two teaspoonfuls of Snowflake 
Baking Powder. 



WHITE CAKE. — RICH CUP CAKE, ETC. 5T 

White Cake. 

Beat well together three cups of sugar and one of butter; 
then put in one cup of sweet milk, in which is one-half 
a teaspoonful of soda ; then add the whites of eight eggs, 
beaten to a froth; one teaspoonful of vanilla, and four 
cups of flour, in which scatter a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. 



Mother's Rich Cup Cake. 

Five cups of flour, two and one-half cups of sugar, one 
and one-half cups of butter, one cup of milk, six eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



Coffee Cake. 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of butter, one cup of hot coffee ; four and one-half 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one-half cup of chopped raisins; cloves, 
nutmeg and cinnamon to the taste. 

QiUeen Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-quarters of 
a pound of butter, five eggs, one gill of sweet cream, one gill 
of wine, one grated nutmeg ; beat the sugar and butter to 
a cream, add the eggs, beaten very light ; then the cream 
and flour, and lastly the wine. — Mrs. F. 

Aunt Eliza's White Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, a small half cup of butter, one cup 
of milk, two and three-quarters cups of flour, the whites of 
three eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
3 



52 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Cream Cake. 

One cup of cream, two of sugar, two eggs, a wine glass 
of milk, two and a half cups of sifted flour, and one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. Beat the eggs and sugar together 
till very light ; then dissolve the saleratus in the cream and 
stir it in with the flour. Add half a wine glass of wine, 
one teaspoonful of ground mace, and one grated nutmeg. 
Bake in shallow tins. Very nice baked in layers and put 
together with frosting. 



Sponge Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, ten eggs, the 
juice of one lemon and grated rind, and a pinch of salt. 
The yolks of the eggs and the sugar should be beaten to- 
gether, the whites separately, until they stand stiff. The 
whole should then be stirred slowly together, adding the 
flour by degrees, the juice of the lemon added last. No 
soda or cream of tartar should go into sponge cake, as they 
make it dry. The lemon is very essential, not only for the 
flavor, but to make it light. The oven should be pretty 
hot. 



Sponge Cake. 

Two large cups of coffee sugar, two wine glasses of cold 
water, put on the stove and boil ; six eggs, the whites and 
yolks beaten separately and then together in the boiling 
syrup, stirring briskly all the time ; when cool add two 
cups of sifted flour and the rind and juice of a fresh 
lemon. 



STARCH CAKE. CORN STARCH CAKE, ETC. 53 

Starch Cake, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one of corn starch, two of flour, one 
of sweet cream, one cup of butter, the whites of seven 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar. 
Rub the butter and sugar together till light and creamy ; 
dissolve the starch in the cream and add, then the whites 
of the eggs well beaten, and lastly the flour with soda and 
cream of tartar. 



Corn Starch Cake, No. 3. 

One and a half cups of powdered sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one and one-half cups of flower, one-half cup of corn 
starch, one-half cup of sweet milk, the whites of six eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda ; flavor with lemon, vanilla or bitter almond. The 
same receipt, with the yolks of the eggs, and an orange rind 
and juice, makes rich yellow cake. 



Harrison Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of molasses, one and one- 
half cups of milk, two cups of sugar, four cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
three eggs, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, 
one teaspoonful of cloves and two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 



Cousin Nell's Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour and two 
large tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



54 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Calico Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, six 
eggs, two-thirds of a cup of milk, one half teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, four cups of flour. 
Make half of the above with brown sugar, adding a litde 
ground cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, and one-half pound 
of dried currants. Make the other half with white sugar 
and the whites of the eggs. Put into your pans for baking 
alternate tablespoonfuls of the dark and light, and the 
effect will be novel and the cake palatable. 



Short Bread— The True Scotch Receipt. 

Four pounds of flour, two and a half pounds of butter, one 
and one-quarter pounds of sugar, one wine glass of rose 
water, one-half pound of caraway comfits and one-half 
pound of citron. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the rose water and then the flour, roll out to rather less than 
half an inch in thickness and strew over the top the candy 
comfits and the citron ; cut in thin pieces the size of your 
thumb nail, pass your rolling-pin over this and then cut 
out into squares and diamonds with a paste-jigger, and 
bake in a dripping pan ; will keep nice and fresh two or 
three months. This receipt has been in an old Scotch 
family for more than three-quarters of a century, and has 
always been the New Year's cake in the old fashioned 
Knickerbocker visitations on that day. The candy and 
citron make it a very handsome looking cake, as well as 
delightful in flavor. 

Savoy Biscuits. 

One pound of sugar, six eggs, three-quarters ofa pound of 
flour beaten as for sponge cake, flavor with bitter almonds, 
and drop on tin pans and bake in a quick oven. 



CREAM CAKE. — BOSTON CREAM CAKES, ETC. 55 

Cream Cake. 

Five eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, five cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. To prepare the cream 
for the cake take one pint of milk, two eggs, one table 
spoonful of corn starch, put in the milk when near boiling ; 
bake about an inch thick, when done open and spread 
with the cream mixture. Put together as for jelly cake. 
This is nice for loaf or jelly cake. 



Boston Cream Cakes. 

One half-pint of water, one quarter of a pound of butter, 
six ounces of flour and five eggs. Boil the butter and 
water together, adding the flour while the above is boiling. 
When thoroughly stirred take it from the fire, and when it 
is cold add the eggs, one at a time, beating the mixture 
until it is entirely free from lumps. Dissolve soda in the 
proportion of one teaspoonful to one cup of water, with 
which wet the baking pan, on which the mixture is to be 
dropped in round places the size of a cream cake. Bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven, avoid opening the oven door 
while baking. When cool, open them on one side and fill 
with the following mixture . One cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of flour, two eggs and one pint of milk. Beat the 
eggs, sugar and flour together and stir them into the milk 
while it is boiling, stirring constantly until it thickens. 
When it is cold, flavor to suit the taste. 



Sponge Cake Drops. 

Six eggs, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, juice of a lemon; drop on tins and bake quickly. 



56 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, two-thirds of a 
cup of milk, and four eggs. Put three teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder into the flour before adding it to the other in- 
gredients. Beat the eggs and sugar together as for sponge 
cake, whites and yolks separately, then add the milk and 
flour with a saltspoonful of salt. Bake in jelly tins. 
Make a frosting of the whites of two eggs and one cup 
and a half of sugar, to which add the juice and grated 
peel of two oranges. Put this between the layers of cake. 

Ladies' Fingers. 

Use any kind of light sponge cake batter. Take a 
sheet of buttered paper, and, with a spoonful of the batter, 
draw a shape on the paper the size and length of a finger. 
Make an even number ; bake until crisp and lightly 
brown ; remove from the paper and join two together by 
means of a little good jelly. They may be cemented with 
frosting, or with white of egg alone, if desirable. 

Cookies, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sour 
cream, one egg, eight cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda 
in cream. Put ingredients all together in a bowl at once, 
leaving out just enough of the flour to use in rolling out; 
mix as speedily as possible; roll thin; sift sugar over and 
bake quickly, and the result will be cookies, delicious as 
rich jumbles. 

Cookies, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, half a cup 
of sour cream, half a teaspoonful of saleratus ; flavor with 
nutmeg or mace ; mix soft. 



BROWN SUGAR COOKIES. — DROP COOKIES, ETC. 57 

Brown Sugar Cookies, No. 3. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
butter, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda in a tablespoon- 
ful of hot water; mix soft, spice to taste, cloves, ginger and 
cinnamon, or either one of these spices. 



Drop Cookies, No. 4. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, 
four cups of flour, one cap of milk, four eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
caraway seeds. Drop in pan and bake in quick oven. 

New Year's Cookies, No. 5. 

Six cups of sugar, three of butter, one and a half of 
sour cream or milk, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus, 
one ounce of caraway seeds; make them stiff. 



First Rate G-inger Nuts. 

One and a half pounds of flour, half-a-pound of butter, 
half a pound of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one pint of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in luke warm water ; roll out thin and bake in a 
dripping pan, wash over with molasses and water before 
baking. 



Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup 
of lard (or drippings), one egg, a little salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger,, two teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in a little 
hot water, flour enough to roll out easily. Lay a little 
apart on tins that they may not run together in baking. 



58 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. » 

Lrop Ginger Calces— Mrs. D.'s. 

One cup of boiling water, one cup of butter, one egg, 
one cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, in which is 
dissolved two teaspoonfuls of saleratus {not soda) ; five cups 
of flour, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, two tablespoonfuls 
of cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of cloves. 

Process. — Pour your boiling water into a pan, set it on 
the stove, add the butter and sugar, then the molasses. 
Take it off the stove and stir in the flour, spice and egg. 
Drop in by the spoonful on a dripping pan or into iron 
cake bakers. 



Soft Gingerbread— Very Nice. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one-half 
cup of butter, three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
two eggs, three cups of flour, cinnamon and ginger, two 
spoonfuls each — put in the milk last. 



Hot Water Frosting. 

. One pound of sugar, one cup of water. Boil to a thick, 
ropy syrup, add to this while boiling the whites of four 
eggs, beaten stiff, and flavor to taste. 



Cinnamon "Wafers. 

One pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, three 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in as little 
milk as possible, two or three tablespoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon, flour enough to roll out ; roll thin and bake 
quickly. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. — MOLASSES POUND CAKE, ETC. 59 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, three cups of 
flour, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one quarter of a 
cup of butter, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 



Molasses Pound Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molas- 
ses, one-half cup of milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of gin- 
ger. 



Molasses Sponge Cake. 

One pint of Molasses, three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved in a tea cup 
full of hot water, one quart of flour, a little ginger ; beat 
the eggs separately. 

Ginger Bread. 

One-half pint of molasses, one egg, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup of hot water, three and one-half cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoon of ginger. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One coffee cup of sugar, one do. of molasses, one do. of 
butter, four cups of flour, one cup of sour milk, two large 
teaspoonfuls of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of ground cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of saler- 
atus dissolved in sour milk ; stoned raisins may be added. 
Bake in sponge cake tins. 



6o HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



FRIED CAKES. 

Doughnuts and Crullers. 

Genuine dough-nuts are raised with yeast. There is a 
spurious article that can be made very palatable with soda 
and cream of tarter or baking powder. Strange to say the 
three latter ingredients are much more digestible than if 
made with yeast, though we still cling to the faith of our 
"fore-mothers" and believe in old fashioned ''lightning." 



To Prepare the Yeast for Doughnuts. 

Take from the potato pot at dinner time, two good sized 
boiled potatoes, two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, and a 
tea cup full of the scalding potato water ; mash and beat 
the whole smooth. Add a tablespoonful of white sugar and 
set it by till luke warm, then add a Twin Brother Yeast 
cake, and let it ferment from two till eight or nine o'clock 
P. M. 



Cup Measure Doughnuts. 

One cup of luke warm milk, four tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, three eggs beaten light, half a nutmeg grated, a pinch 
of salt, half a tea cup of yeast, as above, and one quart of 
flour, let rise over night. Mould up at 9 A. M. with as 
little flour as possible; set near the stove till 2 P. M., and 
fry. This receipt is excellent without yeast, substituting 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, or one of bi-carbonate 
of soda, and two of cream of tartar. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. CRULLERS. 6 1 

Baised Doughnuts. 

Three-quarters ofa pound of butter, one and one-half pounds 
of white sugar, five eggs, one pint of milk, one cup of fresh 
yeast, as above, and flour enough to make them of the con- 
sistency of bread dough ; one nutmeg and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Process. — Mix the butter warmed in the milk, the sugar 
and eggs ; stir into the flour until it is a soft sponge, then 
add the yeast and more flour ; set it to rise over night. 

In the morning roll out and cut into diamond shapes or 
twists, lay them on the paste board, set them in a warm 
place, let them rise until very light, say till two or three 
o'clock P. M. ; then drop them into hot lard, turn them 
over in the pot, promptly but not hurriedly. Should the lard 
incline to burn, throw in an apple skin, or a pared potato, 
which will clear it of any scorching propensity. 



Crullers. 

Six eggs to one cup of butter, and two of sugar and one- 
half cup of milk, and flour to roll out easily. Cut with a 
jigging iron and drop into boiling lard. Long fingers are 
requisite to give them a peculiar shape, peculiar things as 
well as peculiar people being attractive. 



Crullers. 

Two pints of flour, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar and one teaspoonful of soda. 
Flavor with nutmeg. 



62 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



PIES. 

Pastry, 

One quarter of a pound of flour, one pound of shortning 
and a little salt, all rubbed together, but not too thoroughly, 
sufficient cold water to mix with ; no more flour. Put upon 
the moulding board, roll out and cut in strips, put one 
upon another, then cut oif in squares, roll out and put 
upon plates. 



Plain, but Good Family Pie-Crust. 

One pound of flour, half a pound butter, mix thoroughly 
with a knife or spoon. Pour in very cold water, just 
enough to form a dough for rolling out ; flour the board 
and rolling pin, using a knife to handle the dough (the 
warmth of the hand makes it heavy); roll out the size of 
one plate at a time, so as to work it as little as possible. 
Bake in a quick oven. 



Minc3 Pie. 

Seven pounds of meat, six pounds of suet, seven pounds 
of sugar, one gallon of hard cider, seven pounds of currants, 
seven pounds of seeded raisins, fourteen pounds of chopped 
apples. Boil together cider, apples and sugar, and when 
hot pour over the other ingredients. Salt, brandy, nutmeg, 
mace and cinnamon to taste. If citron is liked, put in 
slices just before baking. 



RICH MINCE PIE. — LEMON PIE, ETC. 63 

Eich Mince Fie. 

Three pounds of beef, one fresh beefs tongue, four 
pounds of suet, two and a half pounds of raisins, one 
pound of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, 
eight pounds of chopped apples, four and a half pounds 
of sugar, three pints of molasses, three ounces of cinna- 
mon, two ounces of cloves, half a nutmeg, one and a fourth 
ounces of salt, half an ounce of pepper, one gallon of sweet 
cider, three pints of brandy, three pints of wine. When 
mixed, put into a kettle and scald, stirring it all the time. 

Lemon Pie- 
Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of one lemon ; take 
a tablespoonful of white sugar and the yolks of two eggs ; 
beat them up and bake in a crust. Then beat the white of 
the eggs to a froth, adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
put this on top and put it in the oven till it is brown. 

Lemon Pie that will Keep a Long Time. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, eight eggs, 
the rind of two lemons, the juice of one. Beat well and 
bake with an under crust in an oven not too hot, as it needs 
thorough baking and must not have a soft or custard look 
when done. This recipe will make two pies, which if not 
eaten fresh will be equally good a week after with a mer- 
ingue and browned in the oven. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

One teacup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, three eggs, 
one grated cocoanut, one pint of milk ; underlined with 
pastry. 



64 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Orange Pie. 

Three oranges peeled with a knife, and sliced in rounds 
into a plate lined with paste. Sprinkle well (if sour) with 
sugar, and add two tablespoonfuls of water if the oranges 
are sweet. Add the juice of half a lemon. Cover with 
paste and bake. This is as nice as peach pie. 



Pie Plant or Rhubarb Pie. 

Peel a bunch of pie plant, put it into your chopping- 
bowl and chop into pieces the size of your little finger nail ; 
grate the rind and squeeze the juice of a lemon over this, 
add sugar to taste ; put this into a pie dish lined with paste, 
and cut strips of paste and lay them across the top, and 
bake. 



Strawberry Pie. 

Make a nice puff paste, with which line a baking plate ; 
bake in a quick oven. Have ready sugared strawberries 
to fill the plate, and the white of an egg beaten to a froth 
and sweetened, with which to cover the berries. Return 
to the oven long enough to brown slightly. 



Pumpkin Pie. 

Of pumpkin or squash, stewed and strained, take one 
teacupful, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, two of 
ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt, and milk enough for 
two pies; bake on an ordinary sized soup plate (one- third 
or one-quarter cream is an inprovement), sweeten to taste ; 
if the pumpkin is not quite dry, a little more than a tea- 
cupful will be required. Do not let them bake till they 
whey or the crust will be softened and the flavor spoiled. 



CRACKER PIE. — CREAM PIE, ETC. 65 

Cracker Pie. 

One soda cracker, one coffee cupful of cold water, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of tartaric acid, and 
one teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 

Break up the cracker into a bowl with the sugar, pour 
the water over ; stir in the acid and let it stand for half an 
hour, then add the egg, well beaten, and the lemon, and 
bake in a pie plate with top and bottom crusts. It is 
better cold, and tastes something like a lemon pie. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of rich cream, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
egg ; sweeten to the taste ; a little nutmeg. Bake with an 
under crust. 

Cream Pie without Cream. 

For one pie, take two eggs, one-half of a cup of sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of sweet milk ; heat 
your milk, beat sugar, eggs and flour together ; add to the 
scalded milk, and cook to a thick custard ; flavor with the 
lemons; bake your crust, and when cold fill with the 
custard. 

Peach Pie. 

Line with paste a deep pie or "soup plate, then skin the 
peaches (or if they are fair-skinned and tender, rub off 
with a crash towel the downy coat), and lay on the plate as 
many as will make one layer ; cover with white sugar and lay 
on the top paste. Bake until the fruit is thoroughly done. 
If the crust is likely to be overdone, leave open the oven- 
door. Some prefer to have no under crust, in which case 
the upper crust should be somewhat thicker. To be eaten 
cold, and is delicious with the addition of cream. 



66 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Apple Custard Pie. 

One pint of good stewed apples, quarter of a pound of 
butter, half a pint of cream, three eggs, beaten light. 
Sugar and flavoring to the taste. Bake on an under crust. 



Cream Pie— Unsurpassed. 

One pint of rich cream, one scant teacup of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, the whites of four eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth ; beat all together and pour into a pie plate lined 
with paste. Bake as you would custard pie and eat when 
very cold. 



PUDDINGS. 67 



PUDDINGS. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup of sweet 
milk, one cup of raisins, three cups of flour, and a 
little salt and soda. Tie in a cloth, allowing a little room 
to swell, or put it into a tin pudding dish, and boil three or 
four hours. It is just as good the second day by steaming 
for an hour. To be eaten with liquid sauce. 



Cottage Pudding. 

One egg, one pint of flour, one cup of milk, one cup of 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Mix the 
cream of tartar in the flour, and the soda in the milk. Can 
be made in twenty minutes. Bake quickly, and eat with 
sauce. Square, shallow pans are better to bake in. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one even of flour, 
a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg, stirred to a cream. 
Stir in, gradually, a wine glass of sherry wine ; add a tea- 
cup of boiling water. Then set into a kettle of boiling 
water, stirring it constantly, until the flour is cooked. 

Gypsy Pudding. 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices ; spread with jelly 
or sweet meats, and put together like a sandwich ; then lay 
them in a deep dish and pour over boiled custard hot -, let 
it cool before serving. 



68 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Eve's Pudding— Mrs. T.'s. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught ; 

Take of eggs six in number when bought for a groat ; 

The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen, 

Well pared and well chopped at least half a dozen ; 

Six ounces of bread — let Moll eat the crust, 

And crumble the rest as fine as the dust ; 

Six ounces of sugar wont make it too sweet ; 

Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete ; 

Three hours let it boil without any flutter, 

But Adam wont like it without wine and butter. 

Very Nice Bice Pudding. 

Put one-half cup of rice into one and one-half cups of 
water and set it upon the stove until about done, then stir 
in a pint of milk and let it come to a jelly. Beat the yolks 
of five eggs with five tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar, 
and stir in with a little salt while boiling. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth with five tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and spread over the top and bake a little. 

It may be flavored with lemon or vanilla, and eaten hot 
or cold. 

Snow Pudding. 

One-half box of gelatine dissolved in a pint of warm wa- 
ter ; three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar. Beat the 
whites of three eggs, add gradually the gelatine, sugar, and 
juice of three lemons; beat constantly, hard and fast, from 
half an hour to an hour, or until it is about as stiff as pan- 
cake batter ; put it in the dish in which it is to be served, 
and set in a cold place or on ice : make the yolks into a 
soft custard, with a pint of milk, flavoring with the rind 
of the lemon. This pudding is good the second day, eaten 
with strawberries or brandied fruit. 



BALLOON PUDDING. — BROWN BREAD PUDDING, ETC. 69 

Balloon Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one quart of flour, six eggs. Bake 
in small tins. 



Brown Bread Pudding. 

Three cups of Graham flour, three cups of corn meU, 
one cup of molasses, one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Boil three hours in a mould. 



A Delicate Pudding— Cocoanut and Rice, 

Half a teacup of rice in three pints of milk ; set it, in a 
tin pail, in a kettle of water ; let it simmer till the rice is 
cooked very soft ; set it by to cool. Beat five eggs, leav- 
ing out two whites, one coffee cup of sugar and one gra- 
ted cocoanut; stir in the rice and milk when cold, and 
set it in the oven to bake ; take out as soon as the custard 
forms ; do not wait for it to set, or it will whey. Make a 
meringue of the two whites of eggs and six tablespoonfuls 
of pulverized sugar beaten to a stiff" froth ; pile up on the 
top and return to the oven for two minutes. Very nice 
hot or cold. 



Troy Pudding. 

One cup of suet, chopped fine, one and one-half cups of 
raisins, one cup of milk, one-half cup of molasses, three 
and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of saleratus. 
Boil three hours. 

Sauce for the same. Five tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
one tablespoonful of flour, three of butter, one pint of 
boihng water ; wine to the taste. 



70 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Baked: Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, boiled ; seven tablespoonfuls of In- 
dian meal. Let it boil together five minutes, and cool ; 
then add three eggs, nutmeg, sweeten well, and bake an 
hour. Butter the dish well that the pudding is baked in. 



Sweet Corn Pudding. 

Ten or twelve ears of corn, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one or two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, a little salt, a quart of milk, three eggs. Put the 
flour and butter into the corn, then the sugar and salt, 
then the eggs and milk, and bake. 



Marlboro Pudding. 

Nine tablespoonfuls of sweetened stewed apples ; one- 
fourth of a pound of butter; six eggs, beaten separately; flavor 
with lemon or vanilla ; bake with an undercrust. The 
whites of two of the eggs may be reserved and mixed with 
one-half cup of sugar, spread over the top when baked 
and slightly browned. 



Queen of Puddings. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of sweet milk, one 
cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, the grated 
rind of one lemon, butter the size of an egg. When baked 
spread over the pudding a layer of fruit or jelly, and add a 
meringue made of the whites of the eggs, and one cup of 
sugar. 



PORK PUDDING. — WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING, ETC. 7 1 

Pork Pudding. 

Two teacupfuls of sweet milk, one of molasses, one of 
salt pork ; after chopping very fine, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, two of cloves, two of cinnamon ; add fruit, 
using your own judgment as to the quantity, putting in 
flour enough to make it as stiff as can be stirred with a 
spoon ; put in a pan and steam five hours. 



Whortleberry Pudding. 

Six cups of flour, in which three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder have been sifted, two cups of milk, stirred well to- 
gether; then add three pints of berries, and boil in a 
floured cloth or bag two hours and a half, Ser\ e with 
rich, sweet sauce. 



Rice Pudding, 

Half a teacup of rice in three pints of milk ; set it in a 
tin pail in a kettle of boiling water ; let it simmer till the 
rice is cooked soft ; while hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter; set it by to cool; beat five eggs, leaving out two 
whites, and a teacup of sugar ; stir into the rice and milk 
when cold, and set into the oven to bake; take out as soon 
diS^it fvrjfis a custard ; do not wait for the custard to set or 
it will whey ; one-quarter of a pound of stoned raisins ad- 
ded to this is very nice. Make a meringue of the two 
whites of eggs and six tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar 
beaten to a stifl" froth ; pile up on the top and set in the 
oven just two minutes. 



Batter Pudding. 

Six eggs, beaten light ; six tablespoonfuls of flour, sifted 
one quart of sweet milk. Bake an hour. 



72 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Lemon Rice Pudding. 

Boil one-half pint of rice in one quart of milk until 
very soft, add to it while hot the yolks of three eggs, gra- 
ted rinds of two lemons, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a 
pinch of salt. If too thick, add some cold milk. It should be 
a little thicker than boiled custard. Turn it into a pudding 
dish, beat the whites of the eggs very stiff together with 
eight tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and juice of the lemons, 
and brown on top. To be eaten icy cold. 



German Puff Pudding. 

One pint of milk, six eggs beaten separately and stirred 
into the milk. Take sifted flour and stir all into a thin 
batter. Bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one quart of corn meal, one-half pint 
of molasses, two eggs, a little salt, one teaspoonful of soda. 
Mixed cold, put into a bag and boil four hours. 



Phillis' Christmas Plum Pudding. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of suet, one pound of 
currants, half a pound of brown sugar, eight eggs, half a 
teacup of milk, one nutmeg, one wineglass of brandy, half 
a pound of citron. Boil ten to twelve hours. 



Amherst Pudding. 

Four cups of flour, three-fourths of a cup of molasses, 
one cup of milk, one cup of chopped rasins, one cup of 
chopped suet, one teaspoonful of soda, spice to taste. 
Steam three hours. 



APPLE BETTY. — FARINA PUDDING, ETC. 73 

Apple Betty. 

Take one pint of stewed apples, sweetened, a small 
lump of butter 'and a teacup of rich milk, or thin cream ; 
put the apple into a pudding dish in layers, with thin shav- 
ings from a loaf of bread between the layers ; pour the 
milk over it and bake a half hour. To be eaten with 
Fairy Sauce — that is, butter and sugar stirred to a frothy 
compound, flavored with wine and nutmeg. 



Farina Pudding. 

Stir into one quart of milk, while boiling, three large 
tablespoonfuls of farina; set it away to cool; then add 
three well-beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, a little salt, and put into your pudding dish that has 
been well buttered ; set into the oven in a pan half filled 
with boiling water; bake for about half an hour, and then 
turn out upon a platter, and serve hot with a sauce made 
of butter and sugar beaten to a cream and flavored with 
nutmeg or vanilla. If the pudding dish is oval-shaped of 
the size of the platter upon which the pudding is to be 
served, and the sauce put over the top of the pudding, a 
most tempting dessert is before you. 



English Plum Pudding Without Eggs. 

One bowl of flour, one bowl ot sugar, one bowl of suet, 
one bowl of fruit, one dessert spoonful of salt ; cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg to taste. The fruit should be raisins, 
currants, and citron cut into strips, candied orange peeling, 
and if desired, blanched almonds. Boil constantly for six 
hours, leaving room in the bag for it to swell. It should 
be boiled the day before it is wanted. Keep in the bag. 
Next day boil one hour. Eat with a rich sauce. 



74 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Genuine English Phm Pudding. 

Grate the crumbs of a ten cent loaf of bread, boil a quart of 
rich milk, strain and set to cool ; pick, wash aiid dry a pound 
of currants, stone and cut a pound of raisins ; strew over the 
fruit three large tablespoonfuls of flour. Roll fine a 
pound of brown sugar and mince three-quarters of a pound 
of beef suet. Prepare two grated nutmegs, a large table- 
spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon, the grated 
peel and juice of two large lemons or oranges, and one-half 
pound of cut citron ; beat ten eggs very light and stir them 
gradually into the cold milk, alternately with the suet and 
grated bread crumbs ; add by degrees the sugar, fruit and 
spice with a large glass of brandy, and one ot white wine, 
mix the whole very well, then pour it into a mould or a 
scalded and floured pudding bag, and put into boiling 
water and boil steadily five hours, replenishing the pot 
with boiling water. If you wish a sensation, send it to the 
table blazing. To accomplish this pour a wine glass of 
strong brandy into a hollow, scooped with a spoon from 
the top of the pudding, just as the waiter is entering with 
the dish let the brandy be ignited. 



Snow Cream. 

Pour one pint of boiling w^ter over one-half box of 
sparkling gelatine (in weight three-quarters of an ounce), 
add two cups of sugar, the juice of two lemons and grated 
rind or zest of one ; strain it and when cool add the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; then beat the whole 
with an egg beater until it becomes stiff; make a soft 
boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs, half a cup of 
sugar and one pint of milk, flavor to taste ; and when cold 
pour on the pudding. 



FRIED PUDDING, ETC. 75 

Fried Br3ad Pudding, 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a pinch of salt, and flour 
enough to make a very thin batter ; cut a stale baker's 
loaf in slices one inch thick ; dip each slice one instant in 
milk, then lay them in the batter for fifteen to twenty min- 
utes ; remove carefully with a pancake turner when ready 
to cook, and fry brown on both sides in hot batter in a fry- 
ing pan; eat with sauce. 

Sauce — Half a pint bowl of brown sugar, two heaped 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a wine glass of rose water or 
brandy, all stirred to a cream ; then dredge in about a 
tablespoonful of flour, and add a teacup of boiling water, 
stirring well for two or three minutes ; grate half a nutmeg 
over the top, and use the moment it is done. The above 
is a delicious French desert, though bearing so homespun 
a title. 



My Pudding— (I. G. D. S.) 

Beat the yolks and whites separately of five eggs, and 
gradually add a coffee cup of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, half a pound of grated bread crumbs (a scant pint 
bowl makes half a pound generally), and half a pound of 
fine chopped suet, or if preferred four ounces of butter; mix 
all thoroughly half an hour before pouring it into the butter- 
ed mould or bag. When ready to put over to boil or steam, 
stir in the juice and rind of two lemons ; boil or steam three 
hours. When dishing it for the table, pour cnm it the fol- 
lowing sauce, piping hot. 

Sauce — One pint of madeira or sherry wine, heated to 
boiling and into which stir as much loaf sugar as it will 
take up, say two or three teacupfuls ; let this sauce sim- 
mer to the consistency of thick syrup or molasses, before 
serving. 



76 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Orange Pudding. 

Grate the yellow of two oranges, and juice of three, add 
one cup of white sugar, one cracker, a small piece of butter, 
four eggs, one cup of sweet milk. Line pudding dish with 
paste, and bake until firm, nice either hot or cold. 



Tapioca Pudding. 

Put into one quart of milk two thirds of a cup of tapioca 
that has soaked over night ; set it on the back part of the 
stove and heat gently until the tapioca becomes clear, then 
beat the yolks of four eggs with one cup of sugar and a 
wine glassful of wine or the rind and juice of one lemon ; 
stir this into the boiling milk and tapioca ; of the whites of 
the eggs make a frosting with one cup of pulverized sugar. 
Add the juice of a lemon or other flavoring, spread over 
the top of the pudding in a baking dish, and let it just 
brown to a cream tint in the oven. It is best eaten cold. 

Cream Batter Pudding. 

Half a pint of sour cream, half a pint of sweet milk, 
half a pint of flour, three eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda. 
Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately, and 
add the whites last. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 
This is the queen of batter puddings. Eat with half a cup 
of butter and one cup of sugar, stirred to a cream and 
flavored with a teaspoonful of extract of vanilla or a table- 
spoonful of brandy. 



Rennet Wine. 

Take a rennet freshly salted, wash clean, and soak half 
an hour ; cut up into a quart of madeira or sherry, and 
cork tightly. With this make " Velvet Slip," page 77. 



PUDDING SAUCE,. — FIG PUDDING, ETC. 77 

Pudding Sauce. 

Add to a coffee cup of boiling milk, one tablespoonful of 
flour, wetted with two of cold milk, have ready a tea cup 
of sugar, and half a tea cup of butter, throughly stirred to- 
gether and when the flour and milk have boiled two or 
three minutes add the sugar and butter, stir well but do 
not boil, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



Pig Pudding. 

Six ounces of suet, six ounces of bread crumbs, six ounces 
of sugar, one half pound of figs chopped fine, three eggs, one 
cup of milk, one nutmeg, one-half glass of brandy, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Steam three hours. Wine sauce. 



Lemon Pudding. 

Mix three large tablespoonfuls of corn starch with cold 
water very thin ; pour in three coffee cups of boiling water, 
and boil till it thickens, stirring all the time ; then add two 
coffee cups of sugar, the grated rind and juice of two large 
lemons, two eggs well beaten, and salt to taste. Butter a 
pudding dish, and bake twenty minutes. To be eaten cold, 
and it is very nice with cream. 



Velvet Slip. 

Take two quarts of new milk, warm from the cow, sweet- 
en and flavor the same, half a dozen peach leaves boiled 
in a tea cup of milk, and added, flavors delightfully ; stir 
into this a tablespoonful of the rennet wine that has been 
made five days or more. Set in a cool place four or five 
hours, and eat with cream. 



78 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Fritters. 

One pint of sour milk, two eggs, soda enough to sweeten 
the milk, a little salt, one tablespoonful of melted lard, stir a 
little thicker than for griddle cakes ; drop from a spoon 
into hot lard. 

Omelet Souffle. 

One cup of flour, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, piece of butter the size of a walnut Scald milk, 
butter and flour together. After the batter is cold, stir in 
the yolks of eight eggs, and just before baking, the whites 
beaten light. Bake in a quick oven. Eat with sauce. 



Poor Man's Rice Pudding, 

Two quarts of rich milk, one teacup of raw rice well 
washed, one teacup, or more, of sugar, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and a little salt. Flavor with nutmeg. 
Bake slowly from one and a half to two hours. Stir occa- 
sionally during the first hour to prevent the rice from set- 
ling in the bottom of the dish. Some like a few raisins 
added. This is very nice when cold. 



Lemon Custards that will Keep a Week. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs until they are white, then 
put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two 
lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your taste, stir 
it on the fire until it is thick, then add a glass of wine or a 
little brandy, and after giving it one scald, put in cups to 
eat cold. 

If it does not come thick enough a Httle corn starch 
can be added. 



WASHINGTON PIE. BOILED BATTER PUDDING, ETC. 79 

Washington Pie— A Eeady Dessert. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk (if sour stir in one teaspoonful of saleratus), add one 
egg. Beat the butter and sugar together, then break in 
the egg and beat it light, then add the milk foaming, and 
three and a half cups of flour (if the milk is sweet, use 
three t^aspoonfuls of baking powder in the flour instead of 
saleratus). Bake in four tin plates in a quick oven ; then 
have ready some nicely stewed apples, sweetened and 
flavored with nutmeg or lemon, or other fruit like raspberry 
jam ; spread a thick layer on one of the cakes and place 
another on the top, making two pies. 

In an emergency they may be made after the dinner is 
served if the fruit is at hand. 

Boiled Batter Pudding. 

Four tablespo^nfuls of flour, four eggs, one pint of milk ; 
mix well, and boil an hour. 

Whortleberry Pudding, 

One quart of flour, one heaping tablespoonful of baking 
powder, a little salt, and mix with cold water, having the 
dough softer than for soda biscuit; roll out the paste and 
pour upon it one quart of whortleberries, then cover the 
berries by securely lapping the paste as for dumplings 
The water must be boiling, the pot ample and well filled 
with the boiling water. Dip the pudding cloth in hot 
water, then flour it well ; tie the pudding very closely in 
the cloth and let it boil steadily one hour. 

Sauce — One cup of sugar, a little less than a half a cup 
of butter, worked together until white and smooth ; add a 
wine glass of good wine, flavor with nutmeg ; just before 
sending to the table pour in boiling milk until the whole is 
the consistency of thick cream. Stir the sauce when used 
as it will settle a little. 



HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



CHARLOTTES AND CREAMS, MERIN- 
" GUES, &c. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Take one pint of milk ; make a rich custard ; boiled hot 
over hot water. Dissolve one ounce of English gelatine in a 
little hot water; whip to a stiff froth one quart of cream 
flavored with vanilla. When the custard is perfectly cold, 
stir them all together. Have your dish ready lined with 
sponge cake, fill and place in powdered ice. 

Delicate Custard. 

Heat a quart of milk quite hot that it may not whey 
when baked, let it stand till cold ; then beat six eggs very 
light (five will do very well), and add to the milk; sweet- 
en to taste with white sugar, flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
and a pinch of salt. Fill cups or bowls and set them in 
the oven in a dripping pan filled with boiling water. When 
the water has boiled ten or fifteen minutes take out a cup 
and if the cup is the consistency of jelly it is done. Cover 
the cups and they will bake better. 

Spanish Cream. 

Dissolve half a package of Cox's gelatine in half a pint of 
cold milk. Simmer a quart of milk ; while hot on the 
stove pour in the gelatine stirring till perfectly dissolved , 
add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, sugar and vanilla, as 
for a custard and let them scald one minute or a little more. 
When done pour the mixture into a large dish containing 
the well beaten whites of the eight eggs; stir briskly for 
one minute and pour into moulds. It will fill two quarts 
and one pint. 



I 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 8 1 

Charlotts Russe. 

Four eggs, three pints of cream, one oz. of gelatine, one 
pound of sugar. Flavor with vanilla bean. Beat 
the eggs light, grate the bean into the sugar, and then stic 
in the egg ; add the gelatine when it is dissolved and cool. 
Whip the cream very light, and stir in the froth. Cut 
your cake and place around and on the bottom of the 
mould or dish in which it is to be shaped. When the 
Russe begins to stiffen, pour it on the cake, and let it cool 
until it is in a state to turn out. This quantity will make 
four medium sized moulds. 



Charlotte Russe, No. 2. 

* 

Sweeten and flavor to taste one quart of fresh cream ; 
whip it to a froth. Break up one ounce of Cooper's isin- 
glass into a half pint of water, and set it over a boiling tea- 
kettle to dissolve. When thoroughly dissolved pour it in- 
to the cream, stirring it until it begins to thicken. Line 
a mould with lady fingers and pour in the mixture. 



Charlotte Russe, No. 3. 

Four sheets of Cooper's isinglass broken up and soaked 
in cold water till soft, then pour off the water and put the 
isinglass into a pint of milk, and set it on the stove to dis- 
solve. Beat the yolks of four eggs till very light, with 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Beat the whites sepa- 
rately. When the isinglass is dissolved, and the milk 
very hot (it should not boil), pour it on the yolks and 
sugar, and add the beaten whites. Have ready a quart of 
cream churned to a froth, which add when the custard is 
quite cold and commencing to thicken, stirring very thor- 
oughly. Flavor with vanilla and put into moulds lined 
with sponge cake. 



82 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Ice Cream. 

To one quart of cream take six ozs. of sugar, grate in one 
quarter of a vanilla bean, strain it and put it into your freez- 
er; add the whites of two eggs beaten very light, with three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to stiffen them. If your 
cream is not very rich, boil a little milk, sweeten it, beat 
two eggs very light and stir in and cook like soft custard. 
The flavor will perhaps be better if the vanilla bean is boiled 
a few minutes in a little milk, which may be added to the 
cream when cool. 



Biscuit (jlace. 

To half a pound of powdered sugar add the yolks of 
four eggs and vanilla flavor; beat well and then take two 
quarts of well whipped cream, and mix with sugar and 
yolks; color some of it red and spread on the bottom of 
paper capsules and fill up with the fresh cream. Then put 
them in a tin box with cover and pack well up on all sides 
with pounded ice and salt. Let stand for two hours; it is 
then ready for use. 

The above receipt was procured from the French cook at . 
the St. Nicholas Hotel, New York, where biscuits glace 
reach a perfection that cannot be excelled by any confec- 
tioner. 



Chocolate Ice. 

Grate two cakes of chocolate, and mix to a paste in milk. 
Boil one quart ot milk and when boiling, add the chocolate 
with sugar enough to make it very sweet. When cool and 
ready for the freezer, pour in a teaspoonful of vanilla and 
freeze as ice-cream. 



\ 



I 



LEMON ICE. ITALIAN CREAM, ETC. 83 

Lemon Ice. 

Take the juice of four lemons, add about three pints of 
water and sweeten as for lemonade. To every pint, 
when it begins to freeze, stir into it the whites of two 
eggs beaten very light with a little powdered sugar. This 
will make it smooth. 

Any kind of water ice may be made in this way, by 
mixing the strained juice of the fruit, currant, raspberry, 
strawberry, etc., with water, sweeten to taste and add the 
juice of a lemon and the white of egg when it begins to 
freeze. 



Italian Cream. 

Mix one pint of rich cream with half a pint of milk, 
sweeten to taste; add two gills of Maderia wine, one gill of 
rose water. Beat these thoroughly together. Take one 
and a half ounces of isinglass, break it small into a very 
little water and set it over a boiling teakettle until dissolved; 
strain and stir into the cream. Fill the moulds and set in 
a cool place. 



Gelatine Pudding. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, one-half pint of cold water; let 
it stand an hour, and add one half pint of boiling water. 
When dissolved add three lemons and two cups of sugar, the 
juice of three lemons and grated rind of one. Strain into a 
di3h to cool. Make a custard from the yolks of three eggs, 
one pint of milk, one cup of sugar, and flavor with vanilla. 
Just before using cut the jelly into squares and place in a 
glass dish ; pour the custard over it, beat the whites to a 
froth with a little sugar, and pour over the top. 



84 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Eussian Cream. 

One half box of gelatine ; cover it with water and let it 
stand fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and 
one cup of powdered sugar together; stir in the gelatine 
and pour all into one quart of boiling milk. Flavor with 
vanilla. Let it cool a little, and then stir in the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; pour into moulds and let it 
stand four hours, when it will be ready to use. 

Isabella Cream. 

One-quarter of a box of gelatine, one pint of milk, three eggs. 
With the eggs and milk make a boiled custard. Dissolve 
the gelatine in a little extra milk and add to the custard 
after it cools. Flavor with vanilla and sweeten to taste, 
then whip a pint of cream and add to it with one wine-glass 
of wine. Stand two hours to set and cool. 

Cream a la Mode. 

Put half a pound of white sugar into a deep glass dish ; 
two wine glasses of wine and the juice of one large 
lemon ; to one ounce of isinglass, add one pint of 
water ; let it simmer down one half; strain it on the above, 
and by degrees add one and a half pints of cresm, that has 
been well whipped; stir till cool, and place it on ice, to set. 

Tapioca Cream. 

One teacup of tapioca; add to it sufficient milk to make 
it soft, then take one quait of milk, let it boil for a few min- 
utes ; beat two eggs, whites and yolks separately, stir the 
yolks into the milk, and, when it begins to boil, add the 
tapioca ; let it boil up, then stir the whites very thoroughly 
through it. Flavor to taste ; eat cold. The tapioca must 
soak over night. 



ORANGE JELLY. — ISABELLA CREAM, ETC. 85 

Orange Jelly. 

One package of gelatine in one pint of cold water, six or 
eight oranges, the peel of four taken off very thin, the juice 
of one lemon, two pounds of sugar, one quart of boiHng 
water; stir until all is dissolved, then add four tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy or wine. Strain and cool. 



Isabella Cream, No. 2. 

One ounce of isinglass dissolved in one-half pint of boil- 
ing water. After straining it, add one quart of cream and 
stir until it boils. One teacup of crushed sugar is now put 
in and the mixture cooled a little. The beaten yolks of 
six eggs are then added, with one glass of wine. The 
whole should be strained and stirred until almost cool and 
then turned into a mould. 



CoDoanut Custard. 

To one pound of grated cocoanut allow one pint of 
milk and six ounces of sugar. Beat well the yolks of six 
eggs and stir them alternately in the milk with the cocoanut 
and sugar. Pour this into a dish lined with paste and bake 
twenty minutes, or, if preferred, treat the milk, cocoanut, 
eggs and sugar as for boiled custard and serve in cups. 



Custard to Turn Out. 

Mix with the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, one pint of 
new milk, one half oz. of dissolved isinglass; sweeten with 
sugar and boil over the fire till it thickens. Pour into a 
dish and stir till a little cooler, then pour into cups to turn 
out when cold. Add flavoring to the eggs. 



86 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Iced Coffee. 

One pint of strong coffee ; one pint of rich cream ; one- 
half a pound of sugar ; then freeze. 



Pineapple Ice. 

Peel and grate two pineapples, let them stand in a dish 
covered with sugar until the juice is extracted; then squeeze 
through fine muslin, and add as much water as juice, stir in 
thoroughly the whites of a dozen well beaten eggs ; add su- 
gar to make it sweet, if needed, then freeze. 



Rice Meringue. 

Boil nearly one teacupful of rice very soft, add one pint of 
milk, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, half a teacup 
of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, four eggs, reserving the 
whites of three to be beaten to a stiff froth, adding two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar; bake the same as a custard. The 
whites are to be put on after it is done, and browned a very 
little. Sweeten to your taste. 



Apple Pudding Meringue. 

Stew some tender apples — if juicy they will require very 
little water to cook them. Add to one pound of the mashed 
apples, sifted through a cullender and sweetened, a quarter 
of a pound of butter (while the apples are hot), add (when 
cold) four eggs, keeping out the whites of two. Pour this 
out into pie dishes lined with pie crust. Take four or six 
tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar and add to the two whites 
after they have been well beaten, also a little lemon juice. 
Spread over the top of the pies after they are baked, and 
let stand in the oven from one to five minutes to brown the 
meringue. This is a delicious desert. 



FRENCH MERINGUE. PEACH MERINGUE, ETC. 87 

French Meringue. 

One gill of sugar, one quart of milk, one pint of bread 
crumbs, yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla ; pour 
into a pudding dish, and bake. When cold spread on top 
raspberry jam, or any other marmalade, or jelly of any kind. 
Beat the remaining whites of eggs to a meringue ; sprinkle 
with sugar.and brown for a few moments in the oven. 



Peach Meringue. 

Cut up peaches and put in the bottom of a dish : sprinkle 
them with sugar. Make an icing of the whites of three 
eggs and three-fourths of a cup of sugar, spread over the 
peaches and bake a few minutes. 



Orange Souffle. 

Two oranges peeled and cut in thin slices in your pud- 
ding dish, with sugar sprinkled over them, and let stand an 
hour. Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs and one 
pint of milk, sweetened to taste, pour over the oranges boil- 
ing hot. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with five table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar, spread over the top of the 
custard, set the dish in a pan of water and put in the oven 
until it is a lovely brown. 



Fruit Charlotte. 

Line a dish with sponge cake , place upon the bottom, 
in the renter of the dish, grated pine apple; cover with a 
whipped cream blanc mange. Keep back a little of the 
cream to pour over the top after it is turned out of the 
mould. 



88 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Charlotte of Apples. 

Melt a lump of butter in a bowl of stewed sour apples. 
Pass them through a cullender, sweeten with brown sugar, 
and flavor with nutmeg. Cut some pieces of bread dipped 
in melted butter, and lit them to your mould, and fill it 
with the apple, cover with thin slices of bread, and set in 
the oven until it browns nicely. Serve hot, with sauce or 
cream. 



Caramels. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of white sugar, one cup 
of milk, two cups of molasses, one tablespoonful of flour, 
butter the size of an egg, eight ozs. of chocolate. Boil an 
hour ; pour on a platter, when cool cut in small square cakes. 



Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one and one -half cups of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of vinegar, one-fourth cup of butter. 
Made thus, there will be no adhering to the fingers in pull- 
ing, and sticks as white and delicious as any one could wish 
for will be the result. 



Bell's Candy. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, juice of two 
lemons; let the sugar and water boil "to the crack" (or 
thirty to forty minutes), in a frying pan or spider; add the 
lemon and stir ten minutes after removing from the fire. 



SALADS. 89 



SALADS. 



Chicken Salad. 



One chicken, three bunches of celery, four eggs whites 
and yolks (beaten separately)^ two tablespoonfuls of mixed 
mustard, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one tablespoonful of butter (hard), six or eight table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Set the dish with these ingredients 
into a pan of boiling water on the stove, and stir until it 
thickens like custard; then set off to cool. Cut the chicken, 
that has been carefully boiled, into little pieces, and the 
celery also, and pour over them the dressing, adding, if you 
pjease, a little olive oil and sweet cream. 



Chicken Salad, No. 2. 

Two common sized fowls, one teacupful of fresh sweet 
oil, half a jar of French mustard, the yolks of ten eggs 
(boiled hard), half a pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful of cay- 
enne pepper, eight heads of celery, one teaspoonful of salt, 
or more if required. Boil the fowls and put sufficient salt 
in the water to make them palatable. When they are 
perfectly cold, cut the meat from the bones in pieces about 
a quarter of an inch in size. Cut the white part of the 
celery about the same. Mix the chicken and celery and 
set them away. Mash the eggs to a paste with the oil, then 
add the vinegar and mustard, cayenne and salt. Mix them 
all thoroughly. When the dressing is made it must not be 
poured over the salad until about half an hour before it is 
to be used, as the celery becomes wilted. 



90 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Dressing for Salad. 

Four eggs beaten light, yolks and whites together, two 
tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of black pepper, or one-third of a tea- 
spoon of red pepper, one tablespoonful of butter, and 
nearly one teacupful of sharp vinegar. Float the pan con- 
taining the ingredients in a pan of boiling water on the 
stove and stir until it is thick like custard. When cold 
pour over the salad, adding cold vinegar if needed. 



German Salad Dressing. 

The yolks of three hard boiled eggs, put through a sieve, 
the yolks of three raw eggs, oue teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
well together until cream like, then add a pint of olive oil, 
one cup of vinegar, a little pepper, and a little sugar. 
Beat all well together until light, cold and creamy. Add 
capers if used for fish dressing. 



Dressing for a Mayonaise. 

The yolks of four eggs beaten light with a silver fork ; 
then add, drop by drop, a teacupful of the finest salad oil, 
two small onions, and a small bunch of celery, minced very 
fine ; pour this over a white fish that has been boiled in 
salted and spiced water flavored with a lemon (juice and 
rind); remove the bones from the fish ; when cold, pile into 
a shape, and as it comes to table pour oyer the dressing. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 9 1 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

Tomato Catsup, 

Break up the tomatoes and stew them till they are soft 
enough to strain through a cullender. After straining, to 
one gallon of tomatoes put four tablespoonfuls of salt, 
four or live pods of red pepper, chopped fine, three white 
onions, sliced thin. Boil to a half gallon, and when nearly 
done, put in two tablespoonfuls of ground cloves. It 
should be kept closely corked and sealed. 

Tomato Mustard. , 

One bushel of tomatoes ; take out the stalks and boil 
for an hour with six red peppers. Then strain through a 
sieve and add one-half pound of salt, one ounce of ginger, 
one half ounce of cloves, three tablespoonfuls of black 
pepper, one ounce of allspice, two onions. Boil for six 
hours to a thick paste; when cold add one-fourth of a pound 
of mustard and one-half pint of vinegar. 



Cucumber Catsup. 

Late in September take a bushel of full grown cucum- 
bers, peel and slice them, sprinkle them with salt, and let 
them stand over a sieve two hours that the salt may drain 
off, then chop them fine. Add two dozen onions cut up 
small, one pound of white mustard seed, one pound of 
black mustard, one-fourth of a pound of black pepper, 
ground. Mix all together very thoroughly with the best 
vinegar, making it the consistency of a thick catsup, and 
fill your jars, tying up closely. 



92 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Plum Catsup. 

To three pounds of fruit put one and three-quarter 
pounds of sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of pepper, and 
very little salt. Scald the plums and put them through a 
cullender, then boil until about the same consistency as the 
tomato catsup. 



Another Peach or Plum Pickle. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, a little water to dissolve the sugar. Boil up 
the fruit in this syrup. Stick a clove in each peach, and 
add cinnamon ; take them out and add the vinegar. For 
plums put one pint of molasses to this quantity of sugar, 
and not as many cloves. 



Spiced Currants or Grapes. 

One spoonful of cloves and one spoonful of cinnamon 
to one quart of fruit ; three pounds of sugar and one quart 
of vinegar to five quarts of fruit. Boil the sugar, spices 
and vinegar together, and pour on to the fruit hot. 

The same proportions for Peach Pickle. Peaches will 
need to be cooked in the vinegar till they are tender. Rub 
them clean of the downy coat, prick them over with a 
fork, and put a few at a time in the kettle. 



Canadian Bed Belish, 

To a quart of boiled beets chopped the size of peas, 
add a teacup of very finely chopped raw onions. Make a 
dressing of vinegar, pepper, salt, and mustard, and if it is 
liked, oil sufficient to wet it. 



PICCALILLI. — PEACH PICKLE, ETC. 93 

Piccalilli. 

One peck of green tomatoes, three small cabbages, six 
good sized cucumbers, six large green peppers, six white 
onions, one gill of white mustard seed. Chop fine and let 
the whole lie in weak brine for twenty-four hours; drain 
well, and add vinegar, spiced to taste, boiling hot. Cover 
close. 



Peach Pickle. 

To seven pounds of fruit take one quart of vinegar, 
three pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful of ground cloves 
and one of cinnamon (tied in a muslin bag), rub the 
peaches clean of their downy coat, prick them with a fork, 
and put them, a few at a time, into the spiced vinegar. Let 
them cook till they are tender. Put them into jars, as 
taken out, and pour the vinegar over them. 

This is equally good for plums, quinces, or any other 
fruit. 



White Pickle. 

Two quarts of vinegar, one-quarter of a pound of ground 
mustard, one-quarter pound of white mustard seed, two 
ounces of black mustard seed, one teaspoonful of root gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful of celery seed; tarragon and mace to 
taste ; green and red pepper to taste ; a lemon or two cut 
into this quantity improves the flavor, as also does a root 
of horse radish. Scald the vinegar before adding the above 
ingredients, and pour all when cold over sliced green toma- 
toes that have stood in salt one day. It is equally good 
over beans, cucumbers, etc. 



94 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Piccalilli, 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, with a pint of salt, next 
day drain well and chop, ('hop a dozen large cucumbers, 
half a dozen onions, a head of cabbage, half a dozen 
red peppers. Mix well together and scald with vinegar. 
Drain well. Add one pint of mustard seed, one pint of 
molasses, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, half an 
ounce of celery seed and a cup of grated horse radish ; 
mix well. On the top of each jar put a thick layer of 
brown sugar, and fill with good vinegar. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Two pecks of tomatoes, six onions, one dozen of peach 
leaves, one bulb of garlic, one teaspoonful of red pepper, 
one tablespoonful of black pepper, two spoonfuls of ground 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, one half 
pound of brown sugar, one cup of good vinegar. Slice 
the tomatoes, sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand 
several hours. Drain them well and boil together with the 
peach leaves, onions and garlic, until done ; rub through a 
sieve. Boil the pulp until as thick as you wish. Twenty 
minutes before you take it up^ add the sugar, vinegar and 
spice. 

Spiced Currants or Grapes. 

To six pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar. Boil to a thick jam. Just before taking it up, 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of powdered cloves and the 
same of cinnamon. Very nice to eat with meats. 

To Keep Eggs. 

Half a pint of unslacked lime, the same quantity of salt, 
two gallons of hot water. When perfectly cold put in the 
eggs. They will keep for months. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES, ETC. 95 

Chicuniber Pickles. 

Make a brine strong enough to bear up an egg ; pour it 
scalding hot over the pickles. Let them stand twenty- 
four hours. Take them out, wipe and put into cold vine- 
gar. To one gallon of vinegar add one tablespoonful of 
salt, a piece of ginger root, and a lump of alum the size of 
a walnut. Set them over the fire, stirring up from the bot- 
tom all the while until they are scalded, but not to boil. 
Break into them two or three small green peppers and 
bottle them. 



For Pickling Small Cucumbers. 

Wash the cucumbers and put into a jar, throw a double 
handful of salt over them, cover with boiling water and let 
them stand twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Then after 
pouring off the brine and wiping them dry, drop a few at 
a time into scalding vinegar, to which you have added a 
bag of spices and a little sugar, and let them be until 
thoroughly heated through ; then put into jars, and pour 
the hot vinegar over them. If it is deemed desirable to 
have them green in color, they can be made beautifully so 
by using an old-fashioned brass kettle for scalding them in 
the vinegar. 



Pepper Sauce. 

Take twenty-five peppers without the seeds, cut them 
pretty fine, then take more than double the quantity of 
cabbage, cut like slaw, one root of horse radish grated, a 
handful of salt, rather more than a tablespoonful of mustard 
seed, a tablespoonful of allspice, and the same of cloves ; 
simmer a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover it and 
pour over, mixing well through. 



g6 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Twelve pounds of peaches, six pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar; make the syrup with the vinegar; work the 
peaches a Httle ; pour over hot, two or three tinnes, cloves, 
cinnamon and mace. 



Tomato Catsup. 

Scald the tomatoes, press them through a sieve; boil 
three gallons of this juice, thus pressed out, down to one 
gallon. Add one and one- half pints of cider vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of black pepper, two of cloves, one of cay- 
enne, four of salt ; mix well ; bottle, and stop tight. 



Melon Mangoes. 

The late small smooth musk melons are used for this 
pickle. Wash and put them into a strong brine and let 
them lie twenty-four hours or more, then throw them into 
fresh cold water and let them remain over night. Cut out 
neatly a piece at the stem or from the side, take out the 
seeds and carefully scrape the inside with a teaspoon, then 
scatter within celery seed which will adhere to the sides of 
the melon, and stuff with such materials as you may have, 
shreded cabbage, broken cauliflower, small onions and cu- 
cumbers, green beans, radish and the like, scattering in also 
whole cloves and allspice, pieces of stick cinnamon and a 
little white mustard seed. After filling the melon sew 
each piece that has been cut out, into its place with a 
needle and coarse thread. Drop them into scalding vine- 
gar a few moments, put them into a jar and pour hot vine- 
gar over them; in a day or two drain off and re-scald the 
vinegar, and pour over them again. 



TOMATO CHOWDER. — GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 97 

Tomato 'Chowder. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one-half peck of pep- 
pers, red and green, eight good sized onions, two large 
cabbage heads. Chop all fine, place in an earthen jar, 
with one quart of salt, for twenty-four hours; then strain 
and press it thoroughly ; now place in weak vinegar and 
boil for a few moments. Set it away for twenty-four hours. 
Then drain thoroughly, and add cold vinegar with these 
spices; two ounces of celery seed, two boxes of ground 
cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one pound of brown 
sugar, two or three sticks of horse radish chopped fine. 
If not salty enough, add more to suit the taste. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

Cut your tomatoes in thin slices and let them boil four 
or five minutes in salt and water. Then take them out 
and put in a cullender to drain. To one quart of vinegar 
add one pound of sugar, a few allspice, cloves and cinna- 
mon. Let it come to a boil, then put in the tomatoes and 
boil a few minutes. Take them out and put in a jar. Let 
the vinegar scald again and pour over. 



98 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

To Skin Peaches. 

To two quarts of wood ashes put four quarts of soft 
water ; place in an iron pot, ashes and all, and let it come 
to a boil ; throw in a dozen peaches, take them out almost 
immediately, and throw into a pail of cold water. The 
skin will slip off without any trouble, when the round ball 
should be passed to another pail of clear water, to remain 
until wanted for the kettle ; put more peaches into the pot 
and proceed in the same manner until all are done. 

Mrs. L.'s Receipt for Preserving Peaches. 

One peck of rich yellow peaches, five pounds of crushed 
sugar, one quart of water. Boil the syrup until clear, and, 
in the meantime, fill cans or jars with peaches, packed as 
full as possible, whole or in halves, as you please. Pour 
the syrup boiling hot over them ; then place the jars thus 
filled in pans of water on the stove and let them be heated 
to the boiling point — then seal. 

Grape Jam. 

Pick the grapes from the stem and wash them ; ^fter 
they are drained slip the pulp from the skin, keeping them 
in separate dishes, then boil the pulp until it will easily 
part from the seeds. Strain through a cullender, rinsing 
the seed with a little water. Boil the skins (adding some 
water) until they are quite tender, (the Isabella will not 
become as tender as other varieties). Then put all together 
and weigh one pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil 
two or three minutes and put into cups or jars. 



GRAPE JELLY. — ORANGE MARMALADE, ETC. 99 

Grape Jelly. 

Differs only by heating the grapes ; bruising them mean- 
time with a ladle or potato masher until the juice runs 
freely, then strain through a sieve or thin cloth, and meas- 
ure one pint for one pound of sugar. Boil the juice 
fifteen or twenty minutes before putting in the sugar ; 
after adding the. sugar let it boil from three to five min- 
utes. 

All fruit will form more readily in a jelly if not quite 
ripe; if the fruit is over-ripe I have sometimes used a little 
tartaric acid. 



Orange Marmalade, 

Three pounds of oranges, two pounds of lemons, five 
pounds of sugar. 

Directions — Peel the oranges and lemons, put the skins 
of both in the preserving pan, cover with water and cook 
till tender; then take them out, and put the pulps into the 
same water and cook from one to two hours, adding more 
water if it gets too thick ; while the pulp is cooking cut the 
skins in strips as fine as possible ; strain the pulp through a 
jelly bag, and put the juice back in the pan with the sugar ; 
when it is dissolved put in the skins; boil about fifteen min- 
utes, and it is ready to put in bowls. 



Apple Jelly. 

Core and quarter, but not pare, tart apples. Cook in a 
little more water than will cover them till well reduced. 
Strain, add one pound of sugar to one pint of the juice, 
boil twenty minutes or half an hour, and strain carefully 
into your moulds. Slices of lemon or Jamaica ginger may 
be added to the apples while boiling. 



lOO HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Hipe Peach Marmalade. 

One-half pound of sugar, one pound of peaches, cut up ; 
put the sugar over ; cook slowly two hours ; put in cups 
or bowls. 



Jelly Without Boiling. 

To three packages of sparkling gelatine, one quart of 
cold water, juice of four lemons and the thin yellow peel; 
let it stand one hour, and add three quarts of boiling 
water, one quart of wine and three pounds of sugar ; 
when the sugar is dissolved, strain and set away to 
cool. 



Lemon Jelly. 

One ounce of gelatine, (red the best), one pound of su- 
gar, one quart of boiling water, four lemons ; cut the 
lemons in slices and bruise them, then add the sugar and 
gelatine, and pour upon the whole the boiling water; set 
the vessel containing them upon the stove and stir until 
the gelatine is well dissolved; then pour into moulds or 
tumblers. 



Currant Jelly. 

Pick over the fruit but leave it on the stems. Put it into 
the preserving kettle and break with a ladle or wooden 
masher, squeeze through a coarse linen bag, or put into a 
bag and let it drip over a crock through one night. Then 
weigh a pound of sugar to a pint of juice ; heat the sugar 
and add to the juice after it has boiled twenty minutes or a 
half hour ; boil about five minutes after adding the sugar ; 
take off the fire and pour into your jelly glasses. 



CRAB-APPLE JELLY. WINE JELLY, ETC. lOI 

Crab-Apple Jelly. 

Boil the fruit whole in water enough to cover it until it 
is perfectly soft, then pour the contents of the kettle into 
a coarse linen bag and suspend it between two chairs with 
a pan under it and leave it until it ceases to drip. Then 
press it a very little. Allow a pound of sugar to a pint of 
the juice — if you choose, add the juice of a lemon to every 
quart of syrup. Boil the juice first and skim it ; heat the 
sugar in a dish in the stove oven and add it as the syrup 
boils up. Boil gently twenty minutes and pour in tumblers 
or moulds. 



Wine Jelly. 

To a package of gelatine add one pint of cold water, 
the juice of three lemons and the rind of one ; then add 
three pints of boiling water, one pint of wine, two and a 
half pounds of white crushed sugar ; run into moulds and 
stand it in a cool place. The flavor may be varied by ad- 
ding three or four whole cloves, a stick or two of cinna- 
mon, or oranges may be substituted for lemons. 



Worth Knowing. 

In boiling fruit, take a thick cloth (or one folded in sev- 
eral thicknesses), wring it out in cold water and lay on a 
table. On this set the bottles for filling, and you may pour 
in the boiling fruit with impunity, thus avoiding the dis- 
comfort of standing over a hot stove during the process, 
handling heated bottles. If the cloth becomes warm wring 
it out again. Some persons think a dry cloth answers the 
same purpose. 



I02 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

A Nice Way to Cook Apples. 

Pare and cut into quarters; fill a pudding dish ; sprinkle 
with sugar according to the tartness of the apple, and very- 
little water; cover the dish closely with a plate, and 
cook in the oven till done. The flavor is much better than 
when stewed in the ordinary manner. 



Apple Betty. 

Take one pint of stewed apples, sweetened, a small lump 
of butter, and a teacupful.of rich milk or thin cream; put 
the apples in a pudding dish in layers, with thin shav- 
ings from a loaf of bread between the layers ; pour the 
milk in it and bake half an hour. To be eaten with fairy 
sauce ; that is butter and sugar stirred to a frothy com- 
pound, flavored with wine and nutmeg. 



If the sugar used in making jelly is heated very -hot, and 
used while in that state, the jelly will set sooner and be a 
better color. 



TO CURE BEEF, TONGUES, HAMS, AND FISH. IO3 



TO CURE BEEF, TONGUES, HAMS, AND 

FISH. 

To Corn Beef. 

One peck of coarse salt, four ounces of saltpetre, one 
and a half lbs of brown sugar, one and a half pints of molas- 
ses ; add to the above four gallons of water, boil and skim 
until clear. When cold it is fit for use ; salt the meat a few 
hours before it is put into the pickle. 



Brine for Curing Beef and Tongue. 

Six gallons of water, nine lbs of salt, three lbs of brown 
sugar, one quart of molasses, three ounces of saltpetre ; 
boil all together and skim ; when cold pour on the beef. 
This is quantity sufficient for one hundred pounds ; keep 
closely covered and under the brine. 



Receipt for Curing Hams. 

To eight hams of common size, take eight lbs of brown 
sugar, one and a half lbs of saltpetre, five lbs of fine salt. 
Rub the hams with the mixture, and let them remain a 
week with the skins downward. Then make a brine of com- 
mon salt and water, strong enough to bear up an egg ; add 
two or three quarts of ley made from hickory ashes, refined 
by boiling and skimming. Cover the hams with this liquid, 
keeping them down with a weight. Let them remain in it 
from four to six weeks according to their size, then take 
them out and let them drain there for a day before sending 
them to the smoke house. 



I04 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Beef. 

To pickle for drying or boiling, thoroughly rub salt into 
it and let it remain twenty-four hours, to draw off the blood ; 
after which drain and pack as desired; have ready a 
pickle prepared as follows : For every one hundred lbs of 
beef, seven lbs of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, one quart of 
molasses, eight gallons of soft water; boil and skim well; 
when cold pour it over the beef; pieces designed for dry- 
ing should be taken out in two weeks, and soaked over 
night, to take the salt from the outside. 



To Boil a Ham as it is done at the Parker House, Boston. 

A ham weighing ten or twelve pounds should be boiled 
six hours. Wash and scrape the ham well. Put it into 
cold water enough to cover it well and stir into the water 
a teaspoonful of soft soap. Let it come to a boil gradually ; 
keep hot water ready to fill up the boiler as it evaporates. 
If it is to be eaten cold, have ready a large pan in which to 
put your ham, and cover it with cold water and let it stand 
an hour or two, or until it is cold. Take it up and remove 
the skin and ornament as you choose. 



To Boil Corn Beef. 

Corn beef or tongue that is intended to be eaten cold, 
is greatly improved by letting it stand until cold in the 
water in which it is boiled. The great secret in having 
good corn beef, is long boiling without stopping in plenty 
of water. 



TO BANISH VERMIN. IO5 



TO BANISH VERMIN. 

Moths. 

Moths are at present the pest of our city houses. Wheth- 
er this is the result of our using furnaces during the win- 
ter and late mto the spring, or because Axminster and 
Moquette carpets have taken the place of Brussels and in- 
grain we cannot tell. In our own wear furs and soft chin- 
chilla cloths are the order, where, heretofore, it was French 
broadcloth, etc. Certain it is that moth millers fill the air 
with their dusty wings. We give a few reliable and well 
tried methods of preservation from these pests. 

A Red Pepper Smoke. 

This is the surest of all we ever tried : Hang up in a 
closet or clothes press all woolen things, such as dresses, 
cloths, ovjrcoats, etc., and take a few ounces of Cayenne 
pods (the imported article), or the dried red pepper of our 
gardens, and putting them upon some live coals in a tin 
pan, the bottom of which is covered with ashes, shut them 
close into yrur closet, and let it remain without opening for 
twenty-four hours ; an attic infested with moths may re- 
quire this process repeated three or four times. Carpets 
which are on the floors cannot, of course, be treated in 
this fashion, but by following round the base board (where 
they mostly lodge), with a wet sheet or towel of several 
thicknesses, and pressing the same with a very hot iron, un- 
til the steam from the wet cloths penetrates the thickness 
of the carpet, the insects and their eggs will be killed. 

Alum is said to be an excellent preventive of moths ; 
have it powdered fine and sprinkled where they appear. 

To fold furs tightly in black inky newspapers early in 
the season is highly recommended. 



Io6 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Fur dealers tell us that the only sure way to preserve 
skins from the ravages of these little wretches is to hang 
out and beat the furs well every two weeks. 

Ants may be banished by powdered alum or by wash- 
ing your shelves with a solution of corosive sublimate ; 
this is dangerous but said to be '' a dead shot." Carbonic 
acid or oxalic acid, in a strong solution, is said to have the 
same effect. 

A Cure for Bedbugs. 

The only sure remedy that, in the course of seventeen 
year?, we have invariably found efficacious, is a preparation 
of copperas, one pound to one gallon of boiling water. 
The most infected house we ever saw was cleared by filling 
a syringe with this fluid and shooting it into the cracks and 
crevices of the rooms and walls. Sponging or painting the 
bedstead with this solution will drive them away for 
months and forever. 

The only drawback to this is that it leaves a stain like 
iron rust. 



To Clear Rose Bushes of Insects. 

Put a tablespoonful of whale oil soap into a pail of warm 
water, and with a garden syringe wash the bushes 
thoroughly. In a very short time the insects that infest 
them will disappear and the after blossom will be perfect, 
though the leaf may not be restored that year. 



To Cure A Felon. 

Lay the skin of an ^<g^ over the place where the felon is 
rising ; let it remain as long as it can be endured ; repeat at 
intervals or plunge the finger into a white lye as hot and 
strong as can be borne. 



TO DRIVE AWAY MICE, ETC. IO7 

To Drive Away Mice. 

Moisten chloride of lime, and stop their holes of in- 
gress with the paste. If the holes are inaccessible, set the 
chloride around on small plates. Mice do not like it. 



To Get Rid of Black Ants. 

Get five cents worth of tartar emetic, mix in an old saucer 
with sugar and water and set in your pantry or cupboard, 
where the ants trouble you. In twenty-four hours every 
ant will have left the premises. With me the same dish of 
tartar emetic answered as well the second year as the first; 
as the water dries out add more. Perhaps this will drive 
away red ants. I have had no experience with them. 
This mixture does not destroy, it drives them away ; you 
will occasionally see a straggler about, but he does not 
bring a host with him ; he probably informs his friends and 
relatives of its sickening effects. 



To &et Rid of Cockroaches. 

Take carbolic acid and powdered camphor in equal 
parts; put them in a bottle ; they will become fluid. With 
a painter's brush, of the size called a sash tool, put the mix- 
ture on the cracks or places where the "critters" hide; 
they will come out at once. It is wonderful to see the her- 
oism with which they move to certain death. Nothing 
more sublime in history; the extirpation is certain and com- 
plete. ' 

Another remedy is common green paint in powder, scat- 
tered in the corners that cockroaches frequent; ten cents 
worth will clear the kitchen of those pests. 



Io8 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



WASHING AND CLEANING RECEIPTS, 

The Virtues of Borax. 

It may not be generally known how very valuable borax 
is in the various purposes of household use. We find it 
the very best cockroach exterminator yet discovered. One 
half-pound, costing but 50 cents, has completely cleaned a 
large house formerly swarming with them, so that the ap- 
pearance of one in a month is quite a novelty. The 
various exterminating powders puffed and advertised have 
been found not fully effective, tending rather to make the 
roaches crazy than to kill them. There is something pecu- 
liar, either in the smell or touch of borax, which is certain 
death to them. They will flee in terror from it, and never 
again appear where it has once been placed. It is also a 
great advantage that borax is perfectly harmless to human 
beings ; hence no danger from poisoning. It is also valua- 
ble for laundry purposes. The washerwomen of Holland 
and Belguim, so proverbially clean, and who get their linen 
so beautifully white, use fine borax for washing powder 
instead of soda, in the proportion of a large handful of 
borax powder to 10 gallons of water. They save soap 
nearly one-half. All the large washing establishments 
adopt the same mode. For laces, cambrics, etc., an extra 
quantity of the powder is used ; and for crinolines (requir- 
ing to be made stiff) a stronger solution is necessary. Borax 
being a neutral salt, does not in the slightest degree injure 
the texture of linen. Its effect is to soften the hardest 
water, and therefore it should be kept on the toilet-table. 
As a way of cleaning the hair, nothing is better than a 
solution of borax in water. It leaves the scalp in a most 
cleanly condition, and the hair is just sufficiently stiffened 



HOW SUMMER SUITS SHOULD BE WASHED. I09 

to retain its place. This stiffness, however, can be readily 
removed, if objectionable, by washing with water. Borax 
is also an excellent dentifrice ; dissolved in water, it is one 
of the best tooth-washes. In hot countries it is used, in 
combination with tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda, as 
a cooling beverage. 



How Summer Suits should be "Washed. 

Summer suits are nearly all made of white or buff linen, 
pique, cambric, or muslin, and the art of preserving the 
new appearance after washing is a matter of the very great- 
est importance. In the hands of ordinary washerwomen, 
the linens and cambrics and piques lose all their beauty, 
and come out pale, faded and stretched the wrong way, 
ironed up instead of down, and down instead of up. It 
is worth while for ladies to pay attention to this, and insist 
upon having their summer dresses washed according to the 
directions which they should be prepared to give the laun- 
dresses themselves. In the first place, the water should be 
tepid, the soap should not be allowed to touch the fabric ; it 
should be washed and rinsed quickly, turned upon the wrong 
side, and hung in the shade to dry, and when starched (in 
thin boiled, but not boiling starch) should be folded in 
sheets or towels, and ironed upon the wrong side as soon 
as possible. But linen should be washed in water in which 
hay has been boiled, or a quart bag of bran. This last 
will be found to answer for starch as well, and is excellent 
for print dresses of all kinds, but a handful of salt is very 
useful also to set the colors of light cambrics and dotted 
lawns ; and a little beefs gall will not only set but heighten 
yellow and purple tints, and has a good effect upon green. 
The prevailing fashion has made the washerwoman a most 
important personage, and added a new and most lucrative 
branch to the business of the operators, who only know 



no HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

how to make the most of it. A public spirited lady recom- 
mends all the women who apply to her lately for assistance 
to open a laundry. If some washerwoman of genius 
would only open a laundry, advertise to wash buif linen in 
hay-water, prints in boiled bran-water, colored cambrics in 
a mixture of salt and beef-gall, add a promise not to ruin 
clothes of any kind with lime and soda, and do just as she 
said, she would make a fortune. I give the hint free gra- 
tis : would some experienced woman reduce it to practice? 
—Post. 



To Clean Silk Dresses, 

Equal quantities of alcohol or whiskey, molasses and 
soft soap ; one pint of each will do two dresses; beat well 
together, and after spreading a breadth of silk on a clean 
kitchen table, scour it with an old but clean clothes brush ; 
have three tubs or pails of water, take up the breadth of 
silk by the top and dip it up and down in first one pail, 
then the second and then the third. When there is no color 
left in the water the rinsing is complete. Pin the breadths 
to the clothes line without wringing. When a little damp 
press out with a rather cool iron. Before cleaning rub the 
grease spots with pure naptha. We have used this horrid 
looking mixture with the best success, on even light silks 
and silks with white stripes. 



To Restore Old Velvet. 

First brush the velvet thoroughly to free it from dust, 
then sponge the surface with alcohol, and having ready a 
very hot flat-iron inverted (this may be kept in place by 
putting the handle downward between two cold ones), and 
lay over it a wet cloth. While the steam rises pass the 
wrong side of the velvet over it to raise the pile. 



HOW TO WASH COLORED FLANNEL, ETC. Ill 

How to Wash Colored Flannels. 

Make a suds of cold water and ordinary bar soap ; wash 
the garment and rinse in cold water, Press while it is still 
damp. In this way children's fancy sacques and bright 
dresses may be kept looking like new, neither shrinking 
nor changing color. Don't be afraid to try it. 

A gallon of strong lye put in a barrel of hard water will 
make it as soft as rain water. 



To Clean Woolen Garments and Boys' Clothes. 

One ounce of Borax, one ounce of spirits of Camphor, 
one quart of boiling water. Lay a thick towel under the 
spots ; then rub the soiled place with a woolen cloth dipped 
in the mixture. 



To Wash Black Prints, Alpacas and Waterproofs. 

To a boilerful of strong soap-suds, put two handfuls of 
logwood chips, and let it boil half an hour ; strain. Free 
the garment from grease spots and wet it thoroughly. Put 
it into the boiler and let it boil several minutes. Take it 
out and rinse in clear cold water until the water is color- 
less. Woolens should be ironed on the wrong side while 
quite damp. 



Washing Compound— Our Own. 

Cut up one bar of soap in two quarts of water ; to this 
add one-quarter of a pound of commercial borax, in the 
evening stand a bowl containing this mixture over a kettle 
of hot water, and in the morning it will be of a wax-Hke 
consistency. Put a teacupful of this mixture into every 
pail of water in your wash boiler. 



I 

112 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. | 

To Remove Mildew. 1 

Rub common brown soap on the spot ; and scrape white 
chalk in it. Keep wet and lay in the sun. 



Bridget's Bleaoher. 

One pound of soda ash, one-half pound of unslacked 
lime ; put it in two gallons of soft water ; bring it to a 
boil ; then strain and set away for use in a stone jug or 
crock ; use one pint to three pails of water ; boil sheets and 
half-soiled clothes one hour before you rub them. Be 
particular to rinse well. 



RECEIPTS FOR THE SICK. II3 



RECEIPTS FOR THE SICK. 

Of no Interest to Railroad Restaurants and Hotels. 

A correspondent of the I?idependefit, traveling in Sweden, 
was immensely delighted with the coffee served on the 
steamboats and in the hotels. " At Upsala," he writes^ 
" we determined to find out how they made such perfect 
coffee as we had just drank, and stepped into the neat 
kitchen of the little hotel; and this was the report: Take 
any kind of coffee-pot or urn, and suspend a bag made of 
felt or very heavy flannel, so long that it reaches to the bot- 
tom, bound on a wire just fitting the top ; put in the fresh 
ground pure coffee, and pour on freshly boiled water. The 
fluid filters through the bag, and may be used at once ; 
it needs no settling, and retains its aroma. The advantage 
of this over the ordinary filter is its economy, as the coffee 
stands and soaks out its strength, instead of merely letting 
the water pass through it. * ' Do you boil it ?" inquired the 
learner. " N-a-a-a-ay " said the maid, in simple astonish- 
ment that any one should be so wasteful as to send the 
precious aroma away in steam ; should rob that prince of 
food of that evanescent something which constitutes his 
nobility, and reduce him to mere aliment. As soon would 
one think of throwing away that drop of sunshine, charged 
with all the summer's gold, which lies at the throat of a 
bottle of Johannisberger." 



In Making Tea, 

Remember the old adage of our " Grand Mothers." 
" Unless the tea-kettle Boiling be, 
Filling the tea-pot spoils the tea. 



114 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

To Prepare Coffee. 

To one pound of coffee, ready for roasting, add a coffee 
cup of fresh bread crumbs to absorb the oil, as it oozes 
from the coffee and is otherwise lost ; then, when it is near- 
ly cool, stir into it the beaten white of an egg ; thus glazing 
the kernels to prevent the loss of flavor. Grind the quan- 
tity required at night, and saturate with cold water, cover 
closely, and in the morning, add as much boiling water as 
will be necessary, set on the stove and let it just boil. In 
this manner the strength of the coffee is obtained without 
the escape of the aromatic properties by long boiling. To 
those who use the Old Dominion Coffee Boiler this will be 
an unnecessary precaution. 



Cream Soda. 

Dissolve two pounds of loaf sugar and a half ounce of 
tartaric acid in one quart of cold water. Beat whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth and stir into them a tablespoonful 
of flour ; add the sugar, acid and water, then pour into a 
kettle and boil three minutes ; strain, let it cool, and bottle. 
Two tablespoonfuls of the mixture with half a teaspoonful 
of soda in a tumbler of water will make a pleasant drink. 



Currant Wine. 

Press the juice from the ripe currants and strain it. To 
one quart of the juice add three quarts of water and four 
pounds of sugar. Put them into an open vessel, stir well 
so that the sugar may all dissolve. Cover with a cloth to 
keep the dust out and let stand until the next day. Then 
skim and put into a tight cask, without even a vent, (one 
that can be filled is best). Put into the cellar and in the 
spring draw off and bottle. 



ENGLISH GINGER BEER. — SPRUCE BEER, ETC. II5 

English Ginger Beer. 

One gallon of boiling water, two lbs of brown sugar, one- 
and-a-half tablespoonfuls of ginger, two tablespoonfuls of 
pure yeast, one lemon if you choose, one tablespoonful 
of cream of tartar. Let it stand twenty-four hours in cool 
weather, then bottle in strong bottles. It is good the 
second day. 



Spnice Beer. 

Ten quarts of water, two lbs of sugar, ten drops of oil 
of spruce, ten drops of oil of wintergreen, ten drops of oil 
of sassafras, two tablespoonfuls of cream of tartar, one tea- 
cup of yeast, mix and let stand, 24 hours, before bot- 
tling. 



(jrape Wine. 

To one gallon of bruised grapes, put one gallon of water. 
Let them stand a week without stirring, then drain off the 
liquor and to each gallon strained, add three lbs of crushed 
sugar. Then put into a cask loosely corked, until it has 
done hissing or working, then cork tight and leave it for 
three months, when it will be clear and fit for bottling, seal 
the bottles and keep in a cool place. 



Mutton Broth as an Enema. 

In cases of excessive irritability of the rectum, we have 
known much reliefobtained by minute injections of mutton 
broth prepared by boiling a fat mutton chop cut up in 
small pieces in twice its volume of water ; let boil without 
salt or any other condiment thirty minutes or more, and 
then give in tablespoonful injections once in every half- 
hour till the distress is relieved. 



Il6 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Beef Tea. 

Chop fine a pound of beefsteak ; put it into a new tin 
pail or sauce pan, pour over just enough cold water to 
cover the meat ; set it on the back part of the stove and 
let it come slowly to a scald; strain through a fine sieve or 
coarse cullender — as may be best for the patient — this is 
the best method of making beef tea for such sick persons 
as have delicate or sensitive stomachs, and is invaluable in 
typhoid fevers and other diseases requiring nourishing treat- 
ment. 

Beef tea for enema may be made in the same manner, 
only that the pail may be set in boiling water and let scald 
for an hour. 

Chicken Tea may be made as above. 



Essence of Beef, 

Is quite different from Beef Tea, and is made by packing 
the chopped beef in a hero or mason preserve jar or a bot 
tie, and, lightly covering or corking the vessel ; place it in 
a pot of cold water and let it come to a boil and continue 
to cook till the meat which was placed without water in 
the jar is so dissolved as to produce a teacup or more of 
liquid, this is much stronger than beef tea but not nearly as 
digestible 



Plum Broth. 

Put a cup of raisins in a quart of water, and boil hard 
for half an hour. Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with 
a little cold water and salt, and stir it in with the raisins. 
Let it boil up and skim it well, and then boil twenty min- 
utes or half an hour. Sweeten with white sugar and add 
a little nutmeg. This is very nourishing. 



CHICKEN JELLY FOR THE SICK, ETC. II7 

Chicken Jelly for the Sick. 

Cut up one chicken, taking off the skin and all the fat; 
leave out the coarser parts, such as the neck, and back. 
Put the remainder into a kettle containing one quart of 
water. Boil slowly until the chicken is quite tender, and 
the water reduced to a teacupful. Season to taste with salt 
and strain through a jelly strainer. When it is cold and 
jellied, with a piece of tissue paper take off all the parti- 
cles of grease from the top. This is a nutritious and ac- 
ceptable diet to patients who can receive only small quan- 
tities of nourishment at a time. 



Stewed Oysters. 

Pour over six large oysters a half teacupful of scalding wa- 
ter, let stew till the oysters have given off their juice, this 
can have a little butter and salt added and be eaten with 
broken crackers or toast cut in slices. 



Oyster Soup. 

A teacupful of cream made scalding hot, have stewing 
in another pan a dozen oysters, when well heated and 
skimmed, pour both together and add salt, pepper, a blade 
of mace and a broken cracker. 



Receipt for Blackberry Brandy. 

Taken in 1864 from the N. Y, Times, and proved by ex-, 
perience to be a valuable medidne in summer. 

To two quarts of blackberry juice put one and one-half 
pounds of loaf sugar ; one-half ounce of cinnamon, one- 
half ounce of nutmeg, one-fourth ounce of cloves, one 
ounce of allspice. Let it boil a few minutes and when 
cool add one pint of brandy. 



Il8 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Oysters Cooked in the Shell. 

Set the shells on a gridiron and place the same over 
coals in the grate or stove in the sick room, let cook till 
the oysters open, then feed them piping hot to the patient. 



Diet for Patients Suffering from Nausea. 

Equal quantities of lime water and milk, in teaspoonful 
doses. 

The yolk of an egg beaten very light with half a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar and a teaspoonful of wine ; give a teaspoonful 
at a time. 

Take a tablespoonful of gum arable and pour over it 
three quarters of a tumblerful of cold water ; let stand 
till dissolved and then give teaspoonful doses. 



Mulled Cider. 

One quart of cider, four eggs. Boil the cider ; beat the 
eggs to a froth, and stir them rapidly into the cider ; add a 
half dozen cloves, and a few allspice. Sweeten to taste. 



Milk Punch. 

Put one tablespoonful of Jamaica spirits (or rum), into a 
tumbler with six teaspoonfuls of sugar ; fill up with milk, 
and grate nutmeg over the top. 



Wine Whey. 

One pint of boiling milk, two wine glasses of wine; boil 
one minute stirring. Take out the curd and sweeten and 
flavor the whey. 



MULLED WINE. CAUDLE, ETC. Up 

Mulled Wine. 

One pint of wine, one pint of water, four eggs ; mix the 
wine and water, and set over the fire to boil. Beat the eggs 
well and as the wine boils stir them in rapidly ; add a few 
grains of allspice, and sweeten to taste. Poured over toast 
it is very nourishing. 



Caudle. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal in a quart of water, 
add a blade of mace, a piece of lemon peel ; stir it often 
and let boil twenty minutes; strain, sweeten, and add a 
tumbler of white wine, nutmeg and a little lemon juice. 



A Remedy for Croup. 

" Let a healthy person fill his lungs with pure air ; then 
slowly breathe upon the patient's throat and chest, com- 
mencing at the point of the chin and moving slowly down 
to the bottom of the windpipe. Repeat for a few minutes 
and it will give relief in cases where all other means fail." 

My boy was always subject to croup ; came near dying 
with the rattling, noisy kind at about ii months old. I 
saved him with water, and ever after prevented a serious 
attack by watchfulness and water. But when three years 
old, I let him play in the brook one warm rainy day, and 
he took a severe cold and had the still kind of croup, the 
first and last time he ever had it. In spite of all I could 
do, he grew constantly worse until he could only gasp and 
breathe with his head thrown back. We thought his last 
moments had come, when I thought of and applied Bron- 
son's remedy for a minute. When I stopped he looked up 
and said, " Do so again^ mother, do," though he could not 
speak when I began. You may be assured I did so again, 
and I believed it saved his life. — Laws of Life. 



I20 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Egg Nog. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately ; the latter until 
they stand alone. When the yolks are light enough, stir in 
sugar and sweeten them to taste. Three teaspoonfuls of 
sugar to an egg is a good allowance. Then grate in a lit- 
tle nutmeg and stir in whatever liquor you wish, first add- 
ing half the quantity of water to it, when these ingredients 
are well mixed together, stir in gradually the beaten whites, 
then pour the custard from one pitcher to another for 
several minutes and it is ready for the patient. 

Sherry Nog. 

Place in a tumbler, a wine glassful of sherry wine, beaten 
into the yolk of an egg, and sugar to taste, pour gradually over 
this enough boiling water to fill the tumbler, stirring rapid- 
ly all the time. Give in such quantities as the patient can 
bear, either cold or hot. 

For Burns. 

Procure from a tallow chandler a few ounces of palm oil, 
which is a brownish yellow substance the consistency of 
lard ; spread it on a cloth and apply to the burn. Should 
the face or eyes have been burned, paint the oil on with a 
camels hair brush every hour. The effect is almost-miracu- 
lous. By the use of it a terrific burn was cured in six days 
without the sign of a scar. 

Toothache, 

According to the London Lancet, can be cured by the 
following preparation of carbolic acid : To one drachm of 
collodium add two drachms of Calvert's carbolic acid. A 
gelatinous mass is precipitated, a small portion of which, 
inserted in the cavity of an aching tooth, invariably gives 
immediate relief. 



OINTMENTS, SALVES, LINIMENTS, ETC. 121 



OINTMENTS, SALVES, LINIMENTS, &c. 

^ Ointment to Soften the Hands. 

One and-a-half pounds of nicely rendered mutton tallow, 
one ounce of camphor gum, one ounce of glycerine ; melt 
all together and when thoroughly mixed put away to cool. 



Cold Cream. 

Five ounces of oil of sweet almonds, three ounces of 
spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, otto of roses three 
to five drops; melt in a water bath the oil of spermaceti and 
wax. Strain through fine book muslin ; and stir and beat 
until cold. Scent with neroli or rose. 



Mrs. Chester's Salve, for Cuts, Bruises and Slow Healing 
Sores, 

One cup of mutton tallow, one cup of rosin, one cup of 
raw linseed oil, one cup of bees wax. Cut the ingredients 
in pieces the size of a hickory nut before measuring ; melt 
together, strain and stir until cold. 



Liniment for Rheumatism, or Sprains. 

One-half ounce of oil of oraganum, one-half ounce of oil 
of hemlock, one-half ounce of spirits of camphor, one-half 
ounce of hartshorn. Put into one pint of ninety per cent 
alcohol. 



122 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. } 

Hair Restorer. I 

One-half drachm of sugar of lead, one drachm of lac- 
sulphur in one-half pint of rain water, two ounces of best 
glycerine. Perfume to taste. 



A Sure Remedy for Piles. 

Take inwardly for one or two nights two teaspoonfuls 
of sulpher in a little milk. And apply as an ointment ; one 
ounce of pulverized 7iut gall in a tablespoonful of lard. 



To Remove Milk Crust from an Infant's Head. 

Moisten well with linseed oil. Put on an oil skin cap ; 
fitting close to the head to exclude the air. 



Camphor loe. 

One and-one-half ounces of spermaceti, one-half ounce of 
white wax, six drachms of camphor gum, four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil. Melted together. 



Nipple Salve— Sure Cure. 

One-and-a-half tablespoonfuls of cream from milk that 
has stood two hours, one tablespoonful of sweet oil, piece 
of white beeswax size of a fifty cent piece ; put on the stove 
in a saucer, and stir until it boils ; then cool a few minutes, 
and put five cents worth of tannin and a little camphor 
gum the size of a small pea. Stir all the time until cold. 
To be put on fine tissue paper and put on the nipple. 



» 



LIP SALVE. — SOAP FOR WHITENING THE HANDS. 1 23 

Lip Salve. 

One part of white wax, two parts of spermaceti, one 
part of sweet oil , flavor with rose or bergamot. 



Soap for Whitening the Hands. 

Into a wine glass of eau de cologne and a wine glass of 
lemon juice, scrape two cakes of brown Windsor soap very- 
fine and mix well. When it becomes hard it will be an 
excellent soap for whitening the hands. 

To preserve the hands from chapping take white castile 
soap one-fourth of a pound, borax one-half of an ounce, one 
wine glass of boiling water, and one of fine strained honey ; 
grate the soap, pour over the borax and water and add the 
honey. Stir well. 



124 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Macaroni. 



One quarter of a pound of macaroni boiled in water, 
with a little salt twenty or thirty minutes. When done 
drain off the water and keep the sauce pan covered ; roll 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in four of flour ; boil half a pint 
of cream, and one pint of milk ; to which add the butter 
and flour and boil until it thickens. Stirring all the time ; 
butter a dish, and put in first a layer of macaroni; then 
grate over this an ounce of cheese, and pour a portion of 
the sauce. Repeat this four times which will fill your dish ; 
(use a quarter of a pound of cheese in all). Bake ten min- 
utes. 



Macaroni a la Solferino. 

To half a pound of macaroni boiled in water and well 
drained, add half an onion, a slice of raw ham chopped fine 
and then browned. Moisten the mixture with tomato 
sauce, or a layer of fried tomatoes, just before serving 
sprinkle the whole with grated cheese, and serve very hot. 



Succotash. 

Cut the corn from a dozen ears of corn, being careful 
not to cut into the cob. Boil one pint of lima beans in 
three quarts of water two hours ; boil also, the cobs, as 
they contain much saccharine matter, with the beans. 
Take out the cobs and put in the corn. Just before taking 
up, mix half a pound of butter with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, some salt and pepper. A cup of good cream is a 
great improvement. Let your corn boil only twenty 
minutes. 



MINT VINEGAR. TO CLEAN GOLD CHAINS, ETC. 12 5 

Mint Vinegar. 

Take a glass can and put loosely into it enough nice, clean 
mint leaves to fill it; then pour over enough good vinegar 
to fill the bottle full. Cork tight and let stand for three 
weeks ; then pour off into another bottle and keep to flavor 
mint sauce, etc. 



To Clean Gold Chains. 

Put the chain in a small glass bottle, with water, a little 
tooth-powder, and some soap. Cork the bottle, and shake 
it for a minute violently. The friction against the glass 
polishes the gold, and the soap and chalk extract every par- 
ticle of grease and dirt from the interstices of a chain of a 
most intricate pattern. Rinse it in clear cold water, wipe 
with a towel, and the polish will surprise you. 



Polish for Removing Spots or Mildew Prom Furniture. 

One-and-a-half ounces of alcohol, eight ounces of linseed 
oil, one-half pint of the best vinegar or butter of antimony, 
one-half ounce (lig striichlor), putting in the vinegar last. 



Paste That Will Keep Well. 

A perpetual paste can be made by dissolving one ounce 
of alum in a quart of warm water; when cold, add flour 
enough to make it the consistency of cream ; then stir into 
it half a teaspoonful of powdered resin. Boil it to a proper 
consistency, stirring all the time. It will keep for twelve 
months, and when dry may be softened with water. 



126 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

Hsmoving Marks. 

If a whitish mark is left on a table by carelessly setting 
on a pitcher of boiling water or hot dish, pour some lamp 
oil on the spot, and rub it hard with a soft cloth ; then pour 
on a little spirits of wine or cologne water, and rub it dry 
with another cloth. The white marks will thus disappear, 
and the table look as well as ever. 



Rosewood Furniture. 

To take away the whitish appearance that often covers 
a polished rosewood surface, wash in castile soap suds, dry 
with a soft cloth and rub with a chamois. This is far bet- 
ter than the application of oil. 



To Make Cows Give Milk. 

A writer who says his cow gives all the milk that is want- 
ed in a family of eight persons, and from which was made 
two hundred and sixty pounds of butter last year, gives the 
following as his treatment. He says : "If you desire to get 
a large yield of rich milk, give your cow, three times a day, 
water slightly warmed, slightly salted, in which bran as been 
stirred at the rate of one quart to two gallons of water. You 
will find, if you have not tried this daily practice, that your 
cow will give twenty-five per cent more, immediately under 
the effect of it, and she will become so attached to the diet as 
to refuse to drink clear water, unless very thirsty ; but this 
mess she will drink almost any time, and " ask for more." 
The amount of this drink necessary is an ordinary water 
pail full each time, noon and night. Four hundred pounds 
of butter are often obtained from good stock, and instances 
are mentioned where the yield is often at a higher figure." 



SAPOLIO. TO PURIFY DAIRY UTENSILS. IZ'J 

Sapolio. 

Good housekeepers will appreciate this valuable commod- 
ity. It will remove the most obstinate stains from paint 
and marble, polish tinware, etc., clean steel knives, and all 
with very slight application. 



To Purify Dairy Utensils. 

Stand on end, in a convenient place for use, an open end- 
ed vessel of suitable dimensions for the size of the dairy, 
say from half a barrel to a hogshead. In this slake some 
good quicklime, enough to make a thin whitewash then 
fill full of water, and cover to keep out dust and dirt. 
The lime will settle, leaving a saturated solution of lime 
over it, as clear as spring water. After using the milk-pans 
etc., wash them as other utensils are washed and rinsed, 
then dip them in the adjoining cask of lime water, giving 
them a quick turn, so that every part becomes immersed 
therein ; set them to drain and dry, and the purification is 
complete, without any scalding process, from the new pan 
to the worn-out one The lime in the clear water instantly 
neutralizes the acidity of the milk yet remaining in the 
cracks or seams, etc., of the milk vessels, to destroy which 
the process of scalding has been performed. In the case 
of a very small dairy, or of one cow, the clear water may, 
if preferred, be dipped out for the time being and poured 
gently back again, the lime purifying the water and keep- 
ing it good all summer. Of course there will be a little 
waste from evaporation, which will be made up by adding 
clear water as needed, the lime settled in the bottom of the 
cask keeping up the strength of the saturated solution. 
Let any one who reads and doubts its efficacy, simply try 
it thoroughly, and he will effect a great saving in time and 
cost. 



128 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

An empty oyster can is a good thing to have standing 
in the kitchen sink, to put the soiled knives in to save the 
handles. 



In trying lard, put a good handful of salt in the bottom 
of your jar before putting in the hot lard ; also, in the 
vessels in which you strain your dripping, it will keep 
much nicer. 



All kinds of jelly is better made before the fruit is very 
ripe. 

If you are buying a carpet for durability, choose small 
figures. The loosely woven spots in large figures wear off 
very soon. 



A hot shovel held over varnished furniture will take out 
white spots. So will rubbing with a soft cloth wet in spir- 
its of camphor, followed by another dipped in a mixture of 
sweet oil and turpentine to restore the polish. 



When a garment is yellowed by a too hot iron, expose it 
for a little while to the bright sun light, and if the scorch 
be not to deep, it will disappear. 



In using lard for shortening, the peculiar taste can be 
removed by the use of a spoonful of white sugar, to a 
quart of flour ; stir the sugar into the flour, and if for pie 
crust, enough salt to the water used for mixing to make it 
taste salt. 



MISCELLANEOUS. I 2 9 

In mixing a batter the lumps of flour are more easily 
overcome by putting the salt in the flour before wetting. 



Lay a piece of writing paper over the shoulders of your 
jars of sweetmeats, and any mold will collect on that and 
not on the sweetmeats. 



Any disagreeable taste can be removed from dripping 
by boiling a piece of bread or a few slices of raw potato 
in it. 



Ammonia or spirits of camphor, will remove white stains 
from furniture. 



Do not let the sun shine on mirrors, it will give them a 
milky appearance. 

Knives should be put away in strong brown paper. 



This is the way a man had to put in a stock of ice for sum- 
mer use : He gradually filled 50 barrels with water, allow- 
B ing it to freeze, and then putting it into his cellar, covered 
it with sawdust. 



130 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



BILLS OF FARE 



i 

I 



Of the small annoyances of the housekeeper, there is 
none perhaps more worrying than the ever-occuring ques- 
tion *^ What shall we have for dinner?" No matter how 
full the larder, the inventive genius of the household head 
is often puzzled to contrive and prepare a nice, and varied 
dinner for every day in the week. 

To a young wife and housekeeper who is inexperienced 
in all these matters, though furnished with the most com- 
prehensive and complete rook books, the directions are 
often too elaborate, too rich or too expensive for her taste 
or that of her family, whose health and comfort are to a 
large extent committed to her charge. 

With a large amount of interest and sympathy for such 
puzzled and perplexed friends, we herewith add a few hints 
in the shape of " Bills of Fare," nutritious and sufficiently 
elaborate to suit the wants of a large family or a small one 
with half-a-dozen guests added, and which, if not within 
the reach of all, can be modified to suit the taste and 
purse. 

BILLS OF FARE. 

BREAKFAST— No. i. 

Tea, Coffee, Oat-Meal Mush, eaten with Syrup or Cream and Sugar. 

Broiled Ham and Fried Eggs. 

Beefsteak and Fried Potatoes. 

Griddle Cakes, either Buckwheat, Indian or flour. 

BREAKFAST— No.* 2. 

Tea, Coffee. 

Broiled Spring Chickens. 

Potatoes Stewed in Cream. 

Egg Omelet. Fried Oysters. 

Rolls and Muffins, or Corn Bread. 



BILLS OF FARE. I3I 

BREAKFAST— No. 3. 

Tea, Coffee. 

Pork, Lamb, or Mutton Chops. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Eggs. 

Fried or Baked Apples, 

Corn Bread or Waffles, and Buttered or Cream Toast. 

BREAKFAST— Xo. 4. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Sausages. Fried Potatoes. 

Dough-Nuts and Coff"ee. 

Salt Mackerel. Poached Eggs. 

Oyster Patties. 

BREAKFAST— No. 5. 

Mutton Chops. Muffins. 

Potatoes A la Maitre d' Hotel. 

Omelet. 

Corn Bread. Coff"ee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 6. 

Beefsteak. 
Parker House Rolls. Saratoga Potatoes. 
Scrambled Eggs. Fried Hominy. 
Coff'ee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 7. 

White Fish. Potatoes. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Bacon and Eggs. 

Rye and Indian Loaf. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 8. 

Bichamelle of Veal. 

Rice Cakes. Fried Potatoes. French Rolls. 

Ham Omelet. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 



132 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 



LUNCH ES. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. i. 

Beef Tea served in small Porcelain Cups. 

Cold Chicken and Oyster, or other form of Croquettes. 

Chicken Salad. Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

•'Tutti Frutti." Chocolate Cream. 

Cake Basket of Mixed Cake. 

Mulled Chocolate. 

Mixed Pickles. Biscuit, etc. 

Ice Creams and Charlottes can either be added or substituled. 

For twenty guests allow one gallon of cream. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 2. 

Broiled Partridge. 

Oyster Pie. Cold Ham. 

Peach or Pear Pickles. Biscuit and Tongue Sandwiches. 

Pound and Fruit Cake. Pyramids of Wine Jelly. 

Quaking Blanc Mange. Snow Sponge Cake. 

Pineapple Flumery. 

Kisses. Macaroons. Ice Cream. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 3. 

Fried Oysters. 
Woodcock or Cold Roast Prairie Chicken. 

Oyster Patties. 

Thin Sliced and Rolled Bread and Butter. 

Thinly Sliced Smoked Tongue. 

Harlequin Ice. Charlotte Russe or A la Mode Cream. 

Jelly Cake. Delicate Cake. Scotch Cake. 

Meringues. Macaroons. 



Oyster Sandwiches. 

Chop raw Oysters very fine, season with pepper, salt, a little nut- 
meg, and four crackers pounded and sifted ; the white of an egg 
beaten ; cream and butter. When all is mixed, heat them over 



BILLS OF FARE. 



^33 



the fire until a smooth paste ; spread between buttered slices of 
bread. A quart of solid meats, a half teacup of melted butter, the 
same of rich cream, whites of three eggs and eight crackers. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Chop fine the lean of cold boiled ham, season with prepared 
mustard and black pepper. Add melted butter and sweet cream 
until smooth like a paste, then spread between buttered slices of 
bread. 

Glazed Ham. 

Boil a ham, then mix one cup of currant jelly and one cup of wine 
together and warm the mixture. Put the ham in the oven and 
baste with the mixture, and the result will be a handsome red 
glazing over the ham. 



DINNERS. 



D I N N E R — No. I. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Second Course. 
Boiled White Fish with Oyster Dressing and Sauce. 

THIRD course. 

Roast Saddle of Venison. Wine Sauce. Currant Jelly. 
FOURTH course. 

Roast Partridges or Ducks. 

Oyster Pie. 

Macaroni Pudding. Celery. Pickles and Vegetables. 

dessert. 

Plum Pudding. 
Mince Pie. Squash or Lemon Pie. Peach-Meringue. 
Cheese. Fruits. Nuts. 
Coffee if desired. 



134 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

D I N N E R— No. 2.^ 

FIRST COURSE. 

Black Bean Soup. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Roas<" Beef. 

THIRD COURSE. 

Turkey or Chickens. Cranberries. 

Cold Boiled Ham. Broiled Quail. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Macaroni, Rice or Hominy Croquettes. 

Celery, Pickles and Vegetables. 

DESSERT. 

Hot Farina Pudding. 

Ice Cream. 

Fruits. Nuts. Cofifee, or Chocolate. 

D I N N E R— No. 3. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Parker House Tomato Soup. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Baked Pike. 

THIRD COURSE. 

Sirloin of Beef Oyster Pie. 

Fourth Course. 

Roast Turkey. Ducks. 
Vegetables in Season. Parsnip Cakes. 
Salsify. Macaroni. 
Cranberry Sauce. Currant Jelly. 

Dessert. 

Cream Pie. Wine Jelly. 
Cocoanut Pie, Lemon Ice. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



135 



D I N N E R— No. 4. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Oyster Soup. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Boiled Salmon Trout. Worcester Sauce. 

Egg Sauce and Sliced Fresh Lemons. 

THIRD COURSE. 

A la Mode Beef. Veal Cutlets, 
FOURTH COURSE. 

Chicken Pie and Roast Ducks. 

Hominy Croquettes. Macaroni Dressed with Cheese. 

Vegetables and Celery. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Charlotte. Cream Custards. Lemon Pie. 
Fruits. Nuts. Coffee. 

TEA COMPANY. 

TEA COMPANY— No. i. 

Tea and Coffee and Chocolate. 

Raised Biscuits. 

Oyster Sandwiches. Chicken Salad. 

Cold Tongue. 

Cake and Preserved Peaches. 

Ice Cream and Cake, later in the evening. 



TEA COMPANY— No. 2. 

Tea and Coffee. 

Fricasseed or Scalloped Oysters. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Biscuits and Graham Gems. 

Dressed Celery. 

Charlotte and Cake. 



136 HOME MESSENGER RECEIPTS. 

TEA COMPANY— No. 3. 

Tea, Coffee or Chocolate. 

Scalloped or Fried Oysters. Chicken Salad. 

Sliced Cold Ham. Lobster Salad. 

Rolled Bread and Biscuits. 
Charlotte, Wine Jelly and Cakes. 

TEA COMPANY— No. 4. 

Tea and Coffee. 

Fried Oysters. Muffins. 

Sliced Broiled Chicken's Breast. 

Cold Biscuits. 

Sardines and Sliced Lemons. 

Thin Sliced Bread rolled up. Sliced Tongue. 

Cake in Variety. 

EVENING SUPPERS. 

SUPPER— No. I. 

Cold Roast Turkey. Chicken Salad. 

Quail on Toast. 

Ham Croquettes. Pickled Oysters. 

Charlotte Russe. Pistachio or Vanilla Cream. 

Chocolate Cake, Cocoanut Cake. 

Basket filled with a variety of Cakes. Fruit. 

Coffee and Chocolate. 

For a company of twenty allow three chickens for salad, one 
hundred pickled oysters, two moulds of Charlotte Russe, one gal- 
lon of cream and four dozen biscuits. 

SUPPER— No. 2. 

Cold Roast Grouse or Partridges, or Ducks. 
Oyster Patties. Cold Boiled Ham. Dressed Celery. 

Oyster or Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Raw Oysters. Chicken Croquettes or Fricasseed Oysters 

Wine Jelly. Ice Cream. Biscuit Glace. Cakes. 

Fruits. Chocolate. Coffee. 

Pickles and Biscuits. 



BILLS OF FARE. I37 

Allowance of Supplies for an Entertainment. 

In inviting guests, it is safe to calculate that out of one hundred 
and fifty guests but two-thirds of that number will be present. If 
five hundred are invited, not more than three hundred can be 
reckoned on as accepting, many invitations to so large a company 
being in a measure perfunctory and declined in the same spirit. 

Allow one quart of oysters to every three persons present ; five 
chickens, and fifteen or twenty heads of celery (or what is better, 
a ten pound turkey, boiled and minced), are enough for chicken 
salad for fifty guests ; one gallon of ice cream to every twenty 
guests ; one hundred and thirty sandwiches for one hundred guests ; 
six to ten quarts of wine jelly for a hundred. 



FINIS 






P 



'\'-^^ 



"U 



■■■"^ .1 



' -v. ::,■::> T 



^v.> 



IN. . ». 



■^; 



:v ' , ■-■•.■■■ < .■ , 






^:-:v. 



^ .':-t.-. !.• 



