UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STREET 

LIBR'^^^FACIUTY 



Corner Book Shop 

102 Founh Ave. 



TRIED x\ND TRUE RECIPES. 



THE 



HOME COOK BOOK 



OF CHIO-A-OO- 



COMPILED FROM RECIPES CONTRIBUTED BY LADIES OF CHICAGO AND 

OTHER CITIF.S AND TOWNS: PUBLISHED FOR THK HI NKFIT 

OF THE HOME FOR THE FRIENDLESS. 



With flispatchfnl looks in hrvilc 

She turnx, on hoxpilublc thovyhU iiitenl. 
What choice, to choose for delicacy brgt, 
Whal order, no contrived a^ not to mix 
Ttigte not well joined, inelcgnnt, but bring 
Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change. 

PARADISE LOST, 



CHICAGO: 

J. FRED. WAGGONER, PUBLISHER. 

1874. 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1874, by 

J. FRED. WAGGONER, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



coMaiaciAL purr, toluo. 







PREFACE. 



Good diet, with wisdom, best comforteth man. 

— Thomas Tusser. 

Sir Thomas Browne has quaintly observed, that at some 
time or other we have all been on our own trenchers; and if 
the present rendering of science be true in the relation of mat- 
ter to mind, it may be a subject of no slight importance how 
the psychological units that go to build up our brain and nerve 
forces are set before us, and how our 'dinners are cooked may 
be a more momentous question than who is to be the next 
President. 

With all supplied advice upon this subject, there are two 
qualities which have been seldom attained in any treatise hith- 
erto published upon this science, viz : the art of uniting plain, 
simple and practical methods in the preparation of food, with 
that finish and perfection of detail, and that delicate blending 
of material, which are products of a refined and exquisite per- 
ception, and a delicate and sensitive taste. In short, that 
"gumption," by which the woman who possesses the genius for 
housekeeping graces her table daily with viands that in her 
skillful hands become a " perpetual feast of delights." It is just 
as easy, for instance, to broil a beefsteak to perfection, as to 



•4 PREFACE. 

prepare those greasy and indigestible products of unskilled 
hands and unsuitable gridirons, so often set before us. It is 
just as easy to make biscuits of feathery lightness, (if one only 
Icnows just how to do it,) as to prepare those heavy and sour 
compounds accepted neither of body nor spirit. 

How to unite perfection and simplicity in food, is a problem 
that puts many a housekeeper's soul upon the rack. To this 
end, the woman of "gumption" has come to the fore with her 
experiences, and has inaugurated a new era in the literature 
and science of gastronomic art in a class of Cook Books that 
supply a want which no treatises hitherto published have ever 
filled. These works are made up from recipes in daily use 
with experienced housekeepers, in which they have achieved 
a success that makes of these methods objects of especial de- 
sire among their friends. Although these methods have hith- 
erto found their way into our households in the unobtrusive form 
of penciled recipes, they are, like Jewish oral law and tradition, 
of high — indeed, we may say, of the highest — authority and now 
that they are offered to the public in the permanent, convenient 
and attractive form of letter-press and binding, we feel assured 
of the warm welcome that awaits them from every housekeeper 
who may. resort to our Book for advice and suggestion. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



©O^^PS* 



" No useless dish our table crowds; 
Harmoniously ranged and consonantly just, 
As in a concert instruments resound, 
Our ordered dishes in their courses chime." 

The basis of all good soups, is the broth of meat. This may- 
be made by boiling the cracked joints of beef, veal or mutton, 
and is best when cooked the day before it is to be eaten. After 
putting the meat into the pot, cover it well with cold water and 
let it come to a boil, when it should be Well skimmed. Set the 
pot where it will simmer slowly until it is thoroughly done, keep- 
ing the pot closely covered the while. The next day, when the 
soup is cold, remove the fat, which will harden on the top of 
the soup. After this, add the vegetables and the herbs you use 
for seasoning, cooking all well together. Before sending to the 
table, the soup should be strained. A good stock for soups may 
be made from shreds and bits of uncooked meat and bones, 
poultry and the remains of game. When these are all put to- 
gether and stewed down in the pot, the French term it consomme, 
and use it chiefly in the preparation of brown soups. 

Soups may be varied in many ways, chiefly in the kinds of 
vegetables and different seasoning used, — as in herbs, burned 
caramel, eggs or slices of bread fri -d to a crisp in butter, -which 
impart a savory relish. 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. - 

s 



BEEF SOUP. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Low. 

Cut all the lean off the shank, and with a little beef suet in 
the bottom of the kettle, fry it to a nice brown ; put in the bones 
and cover with water ; cov^r the kettle closely ; let it cook slow- 
ly until the meat drops from the bones ; strain through a colan- 
der and leave it in the dish during the night, which is the only 
way to get off all the fat. The day it is wanted for the table, 
fry as brown as possible a carrot, an onion and a very small tur- 
nip sliced thin. Just before taking up, put in half a teaspoonful 
of sugar, a blade of mace, six cloves, a dozen kernels of allspice, 
a small teaspoonful of celery seed. With the vegetables this 
must cook slowly in the soup an hour; then strain again for the 
table. If you use vermicelli or pearl barley, soak in water. 



JULIENNE SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Shred two onions and fry brown in a half spoon of butter ; 
add a little mace, salt and pepper; then a spoonful or so of 
stock ; rub a tablespoonful of flour smooth with a little butter 
and let fry with the onions ; strain through a colander, then add 
more stock as desired ; cut turnip, carrot and celery in fillets ; 
add a few green peas ; boil tender in a little water and add both 
water and vegetables to the soup. If wished, the flour can be 
left out, and it will make a clear light colored soup. In that 
case, the onions should be cut in fillets and boile;d with the veg- 
etables. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Mrs. Whitehead. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours ; season to your taste with 
salt and pepper, and add one teaspoon of summer savory ; make 
a batter of one egg, two tablespoons of milk, two tablespoons of 
flour, all well beaten together; drop this batter into the soup 
with a spoon and boil for three minutes. 



VALUABLE RECIPRR. 



VEAL SOUP. 

To about three pounds of a joint of veal, which must be well 
broken up, put four quarts of water and set it over to boil. Pre- 
pare one-fourth pound of maccaroni by boiling it in a dish by 
itself, wMth sufficient water to cover it; add a little butter to^the 
maccaroni when it is tender ; strain the soup and season to taste 
with salt and pepper, when add the maccaroni in the water in 
which it is boiled. The addition of a pint of rich milk or cream 
and celery flavor is relished by many. 

SWISS WHITE SOUP. 

. • Anonymous. 

Ta rich broth or soup for six persons, when boiling add three 
eggs, two spoons of flour and one cup of milk beaten together ; 
pour this slowly through a sieve^nto the boiling soup and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

Take the turkey bones and cook for one hour in water enough 
to cover them; then stir in a litde -dressing and a beaten egg. 
Take from the fire and when the water has ceased boHing, add a 
little butter with pepper and salt. y 

OYSTER SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Take one quart of water; one teacup Sf butter; one pint of 
milk; two teaspoons of salt; four crackers rolled fine, and one 
teaspoon of pepper; bring to full boiling heat as soon as possible, 
then add one quart can ofrf)ysters; let the whole come to boiling 
heat quickly and remove from the fire. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. T. V. Wadskicr. 

Pour one quart of boiling water into a skillet; then one quart 
of good rich milk; stir in one teacup of rolled cracker crumbs; 



8 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

seasoned with pepper and salt to taste. When all come to a 
boil, add one quart of good fresh oysters ; stir well, so as to keep 
from scorching; then add a piece of good sweet butter, about 
the size of an egg; let it boil up once; then remove from the fire 
immediately; dish up and send to table. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. Robert Harris. 

One large lobster or two small ones; pick all the meat from 
the shell and chop fine; scald one quart of milk and one pint of 
water; then add the lobster, one pound of butter, a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and salt and red pepper to taste. Boil ten minutes 
and serve hot. 

PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Take a calf's head well cleaned, a knuckle of veal, and put 
them both into a large kettle; put one onion and a large table- 
spoon of sweet herbs, into a cloth and into the kettle, with the 
meat over which you have poured about four quarts of water. 
If you wish the soup for a one o'clock dinner, put the meat over 
to boil as early as eight o'clock in the morning; let it boil steadily 
and slowly and season well with salt and pepper. About one 
hour before serving, take off the soup and pour it through a col- 
ander, pick out all the meat carefully, chop very fine and return 
to the soup, putting it again over the fire. Boil four eggs very 
hard, chop them fine, and slice one lemt)n very thin, adding at 
the very last a glass of wine. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

A knuckle of lamb, a small piece of veal and water to cover 
well; when well cooked season with salt, pepper herbs to your 
taste, and a small onion, to which you may add Halford or 
Worcestershire sauce, about a tablcspoonful. Have ready one 
quarter of a pound of vermicelli, which has been boiled tender; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 9 

Strain your soup from the meat, add the vermicelli, let it ])()il 
well and serve. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

Put on a half a peck of tomatoes in a porcelain kettle aiui let 
them stew; have half a peck of ochra cut in fine shreds; put 
them with thyme, parsley and an onion cut fine, into the toma- 
toes and let them cook until quite tender. Fricassee one chick- 
en in ham giftvy ; then take the yolk of four eggs, a litde vinegar, 
the juice of one lemon, and seasoning to taste, beating the eggs 
into the vinegar; pour this over the chicken, and put all then 
into the tomatoes, letting the ketde he nearly filled with water. 
Boil all together four or five hours. 

OCHRA GUMBO. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Two tpiarts of ripe tomatoes and one cjuart of o( hra cut in 
small rings; put them over the fire with about three (piarts of 
water and let the mixture come to a boil ; take one chicken ; cut 
it up and fry brown, with plenty of gravy; put it in with the 
ochra and tomatoes; add several small onions chopped fine; salt 
and pepper to taste ; a little corn and Lima beans are an im- 
provement, if you have them. Let all simmer gently together for 
several hours. To be served with a tablespoonful of boiled rice 
and green garden pepper cut fine to each soup plate. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Whitehead. 

Boil chicken or beef four hours; then strain ; add to the soup 
one can of tomatoes and boil one hour. This w ill make four 
tjuarts of soup. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One soup-bone, one quart of turtle beans, one large spoonful 
of powdered cloves, salt and pejiper. Soak the beans over 



10 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

night, put them on with the soup-bone in nearly a pail full of 
water and cook five or six hours. When half done, add the 
cloves, salt and pepper ; when done strain through a colander, 
pressing the pulp of the beans through to make the soup the de- 
sired thickness, and serve with a few slices of hard-boiled egg 
and lemon sliced very thin. The turtle beans are black and can 
only be obtained from large grocers. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. B. J". Seward. 

To one pint tomatoes canned, or four large raw ones, cut up 
fine, add one quart boiling water and let them boil. Then add 
one teaspoonful of soda, when it will foam ; immediately add one 
pint of sweet milk, with salt, pepper and plenty of butter. When 
this boils add eight small crackers rolled fine, and serve. E<:|ual 
to oyster soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. J. Hudson. 

One quart of tomatoes, one soup bone, one onion, one cucum- 
ber sliced, two ears of grated corn, salt, pepper and a trifle of 
cayenne pepper. Boil four hours, then add one tablespoon of 
corn starch dissolved in cold water; strain before serving. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. G. \V. Brayton. 

For one gallon of soup, take two and a half quarts good beef 
soup, one medium sized carrot, one turnip, one beet and two 
onions peeled and cut in pieces; boil the vegetables in the beef 
soup three quarters of an hour; strain through a sieve; add a two 
quart can of tomatoes and boil fifteen minutes; strain again and 
add salt and pepper. While this is cooking, take a sauce-pan 
that will hold about six quarts and put in a quarter of a pound 
of butter and heat it to a light brown ; add while hot three table- 
spoons of flour; take from the fire and mix well together, and 
thoroughly; add one desert spoon of sugar and stir until it boils; 
boil fifteen minutes and strain. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 11 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. L. H. Smith. 

Make one gallon beef stock. Take half peck ripe tomatoes, 
cut in halves, two carrots, two onions, one turnip cut fine; boil all 
together for one hour and a half, then strain all through a fine 
sieve ; take a sauce-pan large enough to hold it and put it on the 
fire with half pound of butter; heat it until of a light brown color, 
and add two spoons of flour, mixing well together; add to. this, 
two spoons of white sugar, salt and pepper to suit taste); stir 
well until it boils; let it boil and skim it for five minutes and 
serve very hot. This receipt serves a large family, usually pre- 
pare two quarts of beef stock for a small family, using half the 
quantity of ingredients. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, one-half peck of 
green peas, one gallon of water ; boil the empty pods of the peas 
in the water one hour ; strain them out ; add the beef and boil 
slowly one and a half hours. Half an hour before serving strain 
out the meat and add the peas ; twenty minutes later add one- 
half cup of rice flour; salt and pepper to taste; and if you 
choose, one teaspoonful of sugar. After adding the rice, stir 
frequently to prevent burning. 

CORN SOUP. 

Mrs. W. P. Nixon. 
One small beef bone, two quarts of water, four tomatoes, 
eight ears of corn ; let the meat boil a short time in the water ; 
cut the corn from the cob and put in the cobs with the cut corn 
and tomatoes; let it boil about half an hour and ju.st before serv- 
ing add the milk, which allow to boil for a few moment only; 
season with salt and pepper. 

CORN SOUP. 

Anonymous. 
One quart of corn cut from the cob in thre» pints of water ; 
when the grain is quite tender, mix with them two ounces of 



12 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



sweet butter rolled in a tablespoon of flour; let it boil fifteen 
minutes longer; just before taking up the soup, beat up an egg 
and stir in with pepper and salt. 

TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 
Take a quart of black beans, wash them and put them in a 
pot with three quarts of water; boil until thoroughly soft; rub 
the pulp through a colander and return it to the pot; add some 
thyme in a clean cloth, and let it boil a few minutes for flavor; 
slice some hard boiled eggs and drop them into the soup ; add a 
little butter, pepper and salt. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. John B. Adams. 
Boil the beans and strain them ; at the same time make your 
stock (of any kind of meat) saving the best for force meat balls ; 
to be well seasoned and fried. Put the bean pulp in with the 
stock and boil; add red pepper, salt and a little thyme, tying 
it up in a bag to be taken out; cloves to your taste and a little 
wine. When ready to serve, put the fried balls into the tureen, 
with two or three sliced hard boiled eggs, and a lemon or two, 
according to the quantity of soup. Skim out bones and pieces 
of meat and pour over. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. H. L. Adams. 

One pound of the round of beef, one-half pound of salt pork, 
and one quart of black beans; soak the beans twenty-four hours; 
chop the beef and pork and boil with the beans, one grated car- 
rot and one onion five or six hours; strain and add hard boiled 
eggs, salt, pepper and sliced lemon. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. Andrews and others. 

Take one quart of beans; cook them over night; put them in 
a pot with a large (juantity of water; add a bone of beef or veal; 



^ 






y 



y. 



/ '  



/y 



•/> -^ 



/>f ' 



^"^^A - -^^ /*-i^Oy y,^^^^-^' /^-t^^^^A 





.vf-'^<r 











"C-^U 



i^^C^t^-*^ ^^.^r-'^^i^^i^ ^A-^ifO^t'^^ ^y 






'^ 










^ 






o^^^^^/C 



2_ 



'^■^>z^ 



, V. 






- .^^ /X^c-tlU<-<^ /^jf<^^^i^ir?2^ /C^i^i^^Z^--^ ^n^ (^^c^-^^^We^A^ 










y^ 





Z'. 















^^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 13 

Stir fretjuently ; when reduced to a pulp, strain throi^h a colander 
and return to the fire, putting in a cjuantity of celery, some red 
pepper and onion. This should be done three or four hours 
before dinner is ready. The longer the soup simmers the bet- 
ter. Force meat balls are a great improvement. 

POTATO SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil five or six potatoes with a small piece of salt pork and a 
little celery ; pass through a colander and add milk or cream (if 
milk, a little butter) to make the consistency of thick cream ; 
chop a little jjarsley fine and throw in ; let boil five minutes ; cut 
some dry bread in small dice, fry brown in hot lard ; drain them 
and place in the bottom of soup tureen, and pour the soup over; 
chop two onions and boil with the soup, if liked. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS FOR BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. Baushar. 

Take cold meat ; chop very fine ; add flour enough to make it 
stick together in balls about the size of a walnut ; roll in flour 
and fry until brown, and add to the soup just before it is served. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Mrs. James S. Gibbs. 

Mix with one pound of chopped veal or other meat one egg, a 
little butter or raw pork chopped fine, one cup or* less of bread 
crumbs ; the whole well moistened with warm water, or what is 
better, .the water from stewed meat ; season with salt and pep- 
per; make in small balls and fry them brown. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil four eggs; put into cold water.; mash yolks with yolk of 
one raw egg, and one teaspoon of flour; pepper, salt and pars- 
ley; make into balls and boil two minutes. 



14 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

• NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Rub into two eggs as much sifted flour as they will absorb ; 
then roll out until thin as a wafer ; dust over a little flour, and 
then roll over and over into a roll ; cut off" thin slices from the 
edge of the roll and shake out into long strips; put them into 
the soup lightly and boil for ten minutes; salt should be added 
while mixing with the flour — about a salt spoonful. 



Tt&n, 



"The silvery fish, 
Grazing at large in meadows submarine, 
Fresh from the wave now cheers 
Our festive board." 

— Anon. 

Fish are good, when the gills are red, eyes are full, and the 
body of the fish is firm and stiff". After washing them well, they 
should be allowed to remain for a short time in salt water suffi- 
cient to cover them; before cooking, wipe them dry dredge, 
lightly with flour, and season with salt and pepper. Salmon, 
trout and other small fish are usually fried or broiled ; all large 
fish should be put in a cloth, tied closely with twine and then 
placed in cold water, when they may be put over the fire "to boil. 
AVhen fish are baked, prepare the fish the same as for boiling, and 
put in the oven on a wire gridiron, over a dripping pan. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Mrs. C. G. Smith. 

Put a small onion inside your fish and tie it up in a towel ; 
cover it with cold water, salt and a little vinegar, and let it heat 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 15 



to the boiling point ; from two to three minutes' boiling is suffi- 
cient for the largest fish, and a small one will not require more 
than one minute. Fish boiled in this way is incomparably bet- 
ter than when cooked longer. 

A Suggestion. — Boiling salt watti is l)est for salmon, as it 
•sets the color. — M. A. T. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Lay the fish open ; put it in a dripping pan, with the back 
down; nearly cover with water; to one fish put two tablespoons 
salt ; cover tighdy and simmer (not boil) one-half hour ; dress 
with gravy, butter and pepper ; garnish y,iih sliced eggs. 

For sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one table- 
spoon of flour, one-half pint boiling water; boil a few minutes, 
and add three hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Mrs. A. Keith. 

Boil a large white fish; pick it uj) fine, taking out the bones; 
make a sauce of a quart of milk, a little thyme, a few sprigs of 
parsley, a little onion ; simmer together till well flavored ; wet two 
ounces of flour and stir in with a (juarter of a pound of butter; 
stir until it thickens; then strain it on the yolks of two eggs; 
season with pepper and salt. Put some of the sauce in a pudding 
dish, then a layer of fish aad so on until the dish is full, putting 
sauce on top; cover with rolled crackers and a little grated 
cheese, if to the taste; brown in the oven. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

To one teacup of milk, add one teacup of water; put it on the 
fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoonful of flour, prev- 
iously wet with cold water; add two or three eggs; season with 
salt and pepper, a little celery, vinegar and three tablespoons of 
butter. Boil four or five eggs hard, t^e off" the shells, and cut 
in slices, and lay over the dish. Then pour over the sauce and 
serve. 



16 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BAKED HALIBUT OR SALMON. 

Let the fish remain in cold water, slightly salted, for an hour 
before it is time to cook it; place the gridiron on a dripping pan 
with a little hot water in it and bake in a hot oven; just before 
it is done, butter it well on the top, and brown it nicely. The 
time of baking depends upon the size of the fish. A small fish 
will bake in about half an hour, and a large one in an hour. 
They are very nice when cooked as above and served with a 
sauce which is made from the gravy in the dripping pan, to 
which is added a tablespoonful of catsup and another of some 
pungent sauce and the juice of a lemon. Thicken with brown 
flour moistened with a little cold water. Garnish handsomely 
with sprigs of parsley and currant jelly. 



BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Eight good sized onions chopped fine; half that tjuantity of 
bread crumbs; butter size of hen's egg; plenty of pepper and salt, 
mix thoroughly with anchovy sauce until (piite red. Stuff your 
fish with this comi)ound and pour the rest over it, pre\ iously 
sprinkling a little red pepper over it. Shad, pickerel and trout 
are good the same way. Tomatoes can be used instead of an- 
chovies, and is more economical. If using them, take park in 
place of butter and chop fine. 

BROILED WHITE FISH— FRESH. 

Mrs. G. E. P. 

i Wash and drain the fish; sprinkle with pepper and lay with 
the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil over fresh bright 
coals. When a nice brown, turn for a moment on the other 
side, then talte up and spread with butter. This is a very nice 
way of broiling all kinds of fish, fresh or salted. A little smoke 
under the fish adds to its flavor. This may be made by putting 
two or three cobs under the gridiron. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 17 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Soak the fish for a few hours in lukewarm water, changing the 
water several times; then put into cold water loosely tied in 
cloths, and let the fish come to a boil, turning off the water once, 
and pouring over the fish hot water from the tea kettle; let 
this just come to a boil then take them out and drain them, lay 
them on a platter, butter and pepper them, and place them for a 
few moments in the oven. Serve with sliced lemons. 

BOILED CODFISH— SALT. 

Soak two pounds of codfish in lukewarm water over night or 
for several hours; change the water several times; about one 
hour before dinner put this into cold fresh water, and set over 
the fire; let it come to a boil, or just simmer, for fifteen minutes 
but not to boil hard, then take out of the water, drain and serve 
with egg sauce, or with cold boiled eggs sliced and laid over it, 
with a drawn butter or cream gravy poured over all, 

CROQUETTES OF FISH. 

Take dressed fish of any kind ; separate from the bones, mince 
it with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a teaspoon of flour 
and one of milk ; roll into balls, brush the outside with egg and 
dredge well with bread and cracker crumbs and fry them of a 
nice color. The bones, heads, tails, an onion, an anchovy and 
a pint of water will make the gravy. 

EELS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Skin and par boil them; cleanse the back bone of all coagula- 
tions; cut them in pieces about three inches in length; dip in 
flour and cook in pork fat, brown. 

TONGUES AND SOUNDS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Soak them thirty-six hours in cold water; scrape them thor- 
oughly and boil tender; fry them brown or eat with butter and 
egg sauce. 



18 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHOWDER. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Five pounds of codfish cut in squares ; fry plenty of salt pork 
cut in thin slices ; put a layer of pork in your kettle, then one of 
fish ; one of potatoes in thick slices, and one of onions in slices ; 
plenty of pepper and salt ; repeat as long as your materials last, 
and finish with a layer of Boston crackers or crusts of bread. 
Water sufficient to cook with, or milk if you prefer. Cook one- 
half hour and turn over on your platter, disturbing as little as 
possible. Clams and eels the same way. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Mrs. R. A. Sibley. 

Four pounds of fresh fish skinned and cut in pieces ; put in a 
pot some of the fish, then some crackers and sliced potatoes, salt 
and pepper; another layer offish, crackers and potatoes; cover 
the whole with waiter ; add a little onion, if liked, and some fried 
pork or butter; boil until the potatoes are done, then add a quart 
of mijk and let it boil. When dishing for the table, take out all 
the large bones. Cod fish or haddocks are the best ; other fish 
will answer ; use the head. 

POTTED FISH. 

Mrs. Gridley, Evanston. 

Take out the back bone of the fish; for one weighing two 
pounds take a tablespoonful of allspice and cloves mixed ; these 
spices should be put into little bags of not too thick muslin ; put 
sufficient salt directly upon eacfi fish ; then roll in a cloth, over 
which sprinkle a little cayenne pepper ; put alternate layers of 
fish, spice and sago in an earthern jar ; cover with the best cider 
vinegar ; cover the jar closely with a plate and over this put a 
covering of dough, rolled out to twice the thickness of pie crust. 
Make the edges of paste, to adhere closely to the sides of the jar, 
so as to make it air-tight. Put the jar into a pot of cold water 
and let it boil from three to five hours, according to quantity. 
Ready when cold. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 19 



SHELL FISH 



OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon the top of 
a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven ; open the shells with an 
oyster-knife, taking care to lose none of the liquor, and serve 
quickly on hot plates, with toast. Oysters may be steamed in 
the shells and are excellent eaten in the same manner. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters well and dry them with a napkin. Have 
ready a griddle hot and well buttered; season the oysters; lay 
them on the griddle and brown them on both sides. Serve them 
on a hot plate with plenty of butter. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Clara E. Thatcher. 

To one quart of oysters take one pint of cream or sweet milk ; 
thicken with a little flour, as if for gravy; when cooked, pour in 
the oysters with liquor; pepper, salt and butter the mixture. 
Have ready a platter with slices of nicely browned toast, pour 
creamed oysters on toast and serve hot. 

OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyon, Detroit. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of cream; put the oysters in a 
double kettle, cook until the milk juice begins to flow out; drain 
the oysters in a colander; put the cream on the same way; when 
it comes to a boil, thicken with flour wet with milk as thick as 
corn starch, ready to mould; then put in the oysters and cook 
five minutes. Serve hot on toast. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyon, Detroit. 

Drain the oysters from the liquor; put them in a hot pan or 
spider; as soon as they begin to curl, add butter, pepper and 
salt. Serve on toast, or without, if preferred. 



20 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



STEWED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

In all cases, unless shell oysters, wash and drain ; mix half a 
cup of butter and a tablespoon of corn starch ; put with the oys- 
ters in a porcelain kettle ; stir until they boil ; add two cups of 
■cream or milk ; salt to taste • do not use the licpior of the oysters 
in either stewing or escaloping. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Butter the dish, (common earthen pie-plates are the best ; ) 
cover the bottom of the dish with very fine bread crumbs ; add 
a layer of oysters; season with pepper and salt; alternate the 
crumbs and oysters until you have three layers; finish with 
crumbs ; cover the top with small pieces of butter ; finish around 
the edge with bread cut into small oblong pieces dipped in but- 
ter; bake half an hour; unless shell oysters wash them thorough- 
ly and strain. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. D. 

Crush and roll several handfuls of friable crackers ; put a lay- 
er in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish ; wet this with a mix- 
ture of the oyster liquor and milk, slightly warmed ; next a layer 
of oysters ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay small bits of 
butter upon them ; then another layer of moistened crumbs, and 
so on until the dish is full. Let the top layer be of crumbs, 
thicker than the rest, and beat an egg into the milk you pour 
•over them ; piit pieces of butter on top ; cover the dish ; bake 
Jialf an hour.' 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Norcross. 

Scald the oysters; butter the dish in which they are to be 
"baked ; put in first a layer of rolled crackers ; take the oysters 
from the liquor one at a time, to be sure no shells are on them ; 
.then add a layer of oysters with butter, a little pepper, and con- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 21 



tinue adding a layer of crackers and oysters until the dish is full ; 
have the top layer crackers ; strain over the whole the liquor ; 
bake half an hour. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Clara E. Thatcher. 

Roll one pound of crackers for one quart of oysters. Put a 
layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish ; next a layer of 
oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper and lay small bits of butter 
upon them ; then another layer of oysters, and so on till the dish 
is full; finish with a layer of crackers and small pieces of but- 
ter; then pour on the juice of the oysters, and one (piart of 
water; bake three-quarters of an hour. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Take a large dish, butter it, and spread a rich paste over the 
sides and around the edge, but not on the bottom. The oysters 
should be as large and fine as possible; drain off part of the 
liquor from the oysters; put them into a pan, and season them 
with pepper, salt, spice and butter ; have ready the yolks of three 
boiled eggs chopped fine, and grated bread crumbs ; pour the 
oysters with as much of their liquor as you please into the dish 
with the paste, strew over them the chopped egg and grated 
bread; roll out the lid of the pie and i)ut it on, crimping the 
edges. Bake in a quick oven. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Aunt Maggie. 

Make some rich puff paste and bake it in very small tin patty 
pans; when cool, turn them out upon a large dish; stew some 
large fresh oysters with a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg; 
then add the yolk of one egg, boiled hard and grated; add a little 
butter, and as much of the oyster liquor as will cover them. 
When they have stewed a little while, take them out of the pan 
and set them to cool. When quite cx)ld, lay two or three oysters 
in each shell of puff paste. 
3 



22 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Mrs. Thos. Orton. 

Stew the oysters; take the broth and allow the yolk of one 
egg to every dozen of oysters; turn off the broth and add the 
eggs; let it come to a boil; then turn back the oysters and fill 
the crust. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Roll a few crackers; beat two eggs; wash your oysters or not, 
according to your notion, but the bits of shell must be removed; 
dip your oysters into the egg, then into the rolled crackers; take 
half butter, and half lard in a spider, have it hot ; (but not so 
hot that your oysters will burn;) fry them; then have a colander 
in a pan on the stove, and as soon as done, put into the colander 
to dry; when you have a dozen or so, take them out and put on 
a hot platter; salt to your taste. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Mrs. D., and Mrs. T. V. Wadskier. 

Use the largest and best oysters; lay them in rows upon a 
clean cloth and press another upon them, to absorb the mois- 
ture; have ready several beaten eggs; and in another dish some 
finely crushed crackers; in the frying pan heat enough butter to 
entirely cover the oysters; dip the oysters first into the eggs, then 
into the crackers, rolling it or them over that they may become 
well incrusted; drop into the frying pan and fry quickly to a 
light brown. Serve dry and let the dish be warm. A chafing 
dish is best. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. W. P. Nixon. 

One dozen ears of corn ; two eggs ; salt, pepper and a dredg- 
ing of flour; grate the raw corn, over which dredge a little flour; 
season well ; add the beaten eggs and fry quickly in buttter. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 23 



FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. W. P. Brown, 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible ; put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg into your spider, and let it get quite 
brown ; put in your oysters and as soon as they commence to 
cook, add as much more butter, which has been previously well 
mixed with a tablespoonful of flour ; let it cook a moment and 
add one egg, beaten with a tablespoonful of cream; let this cook 
a moment and pour all over toasted bread. 

MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. 

« 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Boil macaroni in salt water, after which drain through a col- 
ander ; take a deep earthen dish or tin, put in alternate layers 
of macaroni and oysters ; sprinkle the layers of macaroni with 
grated cheese; bake until brown. Delicious as a side-board 
dish at dinner. 

PICKLED OYSTERS.' 

Mrs. C. G. Smith. 

Wash them from their liquor and put them into a porcelain- 
lined kettle, with strong salt and water to cover them ; let them 
come to a boil, and then skim them into cold water; scald whole 
peppers, mace and cloves in a little vinegar; the quantity of 
these must be determined by the number of oysters ;, when the 
oysters are cold, put them into a stone jar with layers of spice 
between them, and make liquor enough to cover them, from tl^e 
liquor in which they were cooked; spice your vinegar and cold 
^ater to taste. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Four or five pounds of lobster, chopped fine ; take the green 
part and add to it four pounded crackers; stir this into one 
quart of boiling milk; then add the lobster, a piece of but- 
ter one-half the size of an egg, a little pepper and salt, and bring 
to a boil. 



24 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

M. A. T. 
The same mixture as given for stuffed lobster, without the 
cream; made into pointed balls, dipped in egg and then rolled' 
cracker and fried in very hot lard ; served dry and garnished 
with parsley. 

STUFFED GRABS OR LOBSTER. 

M.A. T. 
Boil crabs and pick out meat; carefully preserving the shell 
whale; rub this with salad oil; add to meat one-fourth as much 
fine bread crumbs, very little nutmeg, cayenne pepper,, grated 
rind and juice of lemon, butter and a little sweet cream, (if 
lobster, rub the coral with the cream;) replace in shells, dust 
lightly with bread crumbs and butter and bro^'n in oven. Gar- 
nish with parsley and lemon. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

» M. A. T. 

Twelve clams, chopped or not; one pint milk; three eggs; add 
liquor from clams; salt and pepper, and flour enough for thin 
batter. Fry in hot lard. 

TO DRESS CRAB. 

Mrs. Elia M, Walker. 
Two or three shalots and a little parsley chopped very fine ; 
one ounce of butter; a bunch of sweet herbs, a teacup of broth 
<(or water); boil a few minutes, and take out the herbs, add the 
crumbs of a roll finely grated; one tablespoon of best sweet oil; 
one glass of sherry; the juice of half a lemon; cayenne pepper 
and salt to taste. Put in the crab to warm, then put all nicely 
into the shell, grate over some bread crumbs and put in the oven 
a few moments to brown. 

CLAM STEW. 

Mrs. M. L. S. 
Lay the clams on a gridiron over hot coals, taking them out of 
the shells as soon as open, saving the juice; add a little hot wa- 



VALUABLE RECIPES'. 26 



ter, pepper, a very little salt and bufter rolled in flour sufficient 
for seasoning; cook for five minutes and pour over toast. 



:p(0uti^7 ^9^4 ^^tif^^^ 



" Whoso seeks an audit here, 
Propitious pays his tribute — game or fish, 
Wildfowl or venison, and his errand speed." 

— COWI'ER. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Take a young fowl and fill the inside with oysters ; place in a 
jar and plunge into a kettle of water ; boil for one and one-half 
hours ; there will be a quantity of gravy in the jar from the juice 
of the fowls and the oysters; make this into a white sauce with 
the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter ; add oys- 
ters or serve up plain with the fowl. This is very nice with the 
addition of a little parsley to the sauce. 

ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Having picked and drawn the fowls, wash them well in two 
or three waters; wipe them dry; dredge them with a little flour 
inside and out, and a little pepper and salt; prepare a dressing 
of bread and cracker crumbs, fill the bodies and the crops of the 
fowls and then bake them for one or two hours; baste them fre- 
quently while roasting; stew the giblets in a sauce pan; just 
before serving, chop the giblets fine; after taking up the chicken, 
add the water in which the giblets were boiled, and the chopped 
giblets to the gravy of the roast fowl ; thicken with a little flour, 
which has been previously wet with water; boil up, and serve 
in a gravy dish. Roast chickens and turkey should be accom- 
panied with celery and jellies. 



26 THE HOME COOK BOOK, 



BAKED CHICKEN. 

Anonymous. 

Cut the fowls open and lay them flat in a pan, breaking down 
the breast and back bones; dredge with flour and season well 
with salt and pepper, with bits of butter ; put in a very hot oven 
until done, basting frequently with melted butter; or when half 
done take out the chicken and finish by broiling it upon a grid- 
iron over bright coals; pour over it melted butter and the juices 
in the pan in which it was baked. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Sarah Page, Albany, N. Y. 

Cut up the chickens and put on the fire in a kettle with cold 
water sufficient to cover, add a little salt or salt pork sliced, if 
you like; boil until tender, and cut up and put in a part of a 
head of celery. When tender have ready hot baking-powder 
biscuits broken open and laid on a platter; on this place the 
chicken; thicken the gravy with flour moistened with water or 
milk, and pour it over the chicken and biscuits. If you prefer, 
use a good sized piece of butter to season instead of the salt 
pork. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Bausher. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay in salt and water, which change 
several times; roll each piece in flour; fry in very hot lard or 
butter, season with salt and pepper; fry parsley with them also. 
Make a gravy of cream seasoned with salt, pepper and a little 
mac^, thickened with a little flour in the pan in which the 
chickens were fried, pouring off the lard. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKENS OR TURKEY. 

Mrs. F. D. 

Chop bread i:rumbs quite fine, season well with pepper, salt 
and plenty of butter; moisten with a very little water, and add a 
few oysters with a little of the liquor, if you please. 



VALUABLE RECIPE8. 27 



DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

C. Kennicott. 

One pint of soaked bread, two tablespoons of sage, two table- 
spoons of summer savory, two teaspoons of salt, two teaspoons 
pepper, butter size of an egg. 

CPIICKEN CHEESE. 

Two chickens boiled tender, chop, but not too fine; salt and 
pepper; three or four eggs boiled and sliced; line dishes or 
moulds with them ; pour in the chicken and the liquor they were 
boiled in, when cold, slice. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

M. A. T. 

Boil a fowl until it will slip easily from the bones; let the wa- 
ter be reduced to about one pint in boiling; pick the meat from 
the bones in good sized pieces, taking out all gristle, fat and 
bones; place in a wet mould; skim the fat from the liquor; a 
little butter; pepper and salt to the taste and one-half ounce of 
gelatine. When this dissolves, pour it hot over the chicken. 
The liquor must be seasoned pretty high, for the chicken 
absorbs. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Mrs. H. 

Stew chickens until tender; line the sides of a deep pie dish, 
with nice pastry; put in the chicken, and the water in which it 
has boiled, (which should be but half a pint); season with a 
large piece of butter, salt and pepper, and then cover loosely 
with a crust. While this is baking, have ready a quart can of 
fine oysters; put on the fire a pint of rich milk, (or the liquor of 
the oysters will do); let it come to a boil; thicken with a little 
flour, and season with butter, pepper and salt; pour this over the 
oysters boiling hot, and about fifteen minutes before the pie is 
done, lift the crust and pour the oysters and all, into the pie; 
then return to the oven to finish. 



28 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



CHICKEN LOAF. 

Mrs. W. H. Low. 
Take two chickens, boil them in as httle water as possible, 
until the meat will drop from the bones; cut it with a knife and 
fork ; then put it back in the kettle ; put in plenty of butter, pep- 
per and salt; heat it thoroughly; boil an egg hard and slice it 
and place in the bottom of a dish ; pour it in hot, place a weight 
upon it, and put it away to cool; it will come out in a form. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 
Two well cooked chickens chopped fine; one pound rice boil- 
ed not more than twenty minutes; an onion, if preferred; one- 
half pound old cheese grated; parsley chopped fine ; very little 
cloves, mace and thyme; cayenne and black pepper to season. 
Mix this thoroughly with the yolks often eggs, well beaten; one 
pint of sifted crackers ; beat six eggs, separately ; form the first 
compound in a pointed wine glass; dip first in the egg and then 
in the sifted cracker and brown in hot lard. Heat before eating. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon. 
The proportions that we give below are for half a good sized 
chicken. After boiling, chop the meat fine, fry it with one ounce 
of butter; then add one-half teaspoon of flour; stir for half a 
minute, adding the chopped meat and a little more than a gill of 
meat broJ;h; salt, pepper and a pinch of nutmeg; stir for five 
minutes, then take it from the fire and mix the yolks of two 
eggs with it; put on the fire again for one minute, stirring the 
while. Lastly, you may or may not add four mushrooms chop- 
ped, or two truffles, or both, according to taste. Turn the mix- 
ture into a dish and set it away to cool, \yhen perfectly cold, 
mix it well, as the upper part is drier than the rest; put it in 
parts on the pasteboard a tablespoon for each part. Have bread 
crumbs on the paste-board, then make them into any form re- 
quired. Dip each crocjuette in beaten egg ; roll in bread crumbs 
again and fry in hot fat. Garnish each croquette with a sprig of 
parsley. 



VALUABLE RECIPE8. 29 



CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. I. N. Isham. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of ham, 
fat and lean; chop all together very fine; add half as much 
grated bread, and season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; one 
tablespoon of catsup, one teaspoon of made mustard and one 
lump of butter; mix well together, make up in little rolls or 
balls, dip in beaten yolks of eggs, cover with grated bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in lard. 

DUCKS. 

Miss S. P., Albany, N. Y. 

When roasted; use dressing as for turkey, with the addition of 
a few slices of onion. Many cooks lay over the game slices of 
onions, which takes away the fishy flavor, removing the onion 
before serving. Make a sauce with the drippings in the pan, in 
which the game is roasted, into which are put the chopped gib- 
lets, which are previously well cooked; thicken the gravy with 
browned flour, moistened with water. Serve with currant jelly. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Stuff and roast in the same manner as ducks. Many cooks 
cover poultry with a paste of flour and water while baking, 
removing it before it is served. 

TO ROAST WILD FOWL. 

M. A. T. 

Put an onion, salt and hot water into the pan, and baste for 
ten or fifteen minutes; change the pan; put in a slice of salt pork 
and baste with butter and pork drippings vdry often; just before 
serving dredge lightly with flour and baste. Ducks take from 
twenty-five to thirty-five minutes to roast, and woodcock and 
snips fifteen to twenty-five. Do not draw nor take of the heads 
of either. Garnish with fried or toasted bread, lemon, parsley 
and currant jelly. 



30 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES AND QUAILS. 

Miss Sarah Page, Albany, N. Y. 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which they 
are washed; rinse them and dry, and then fill them with dress- 
ing, sewing them up nicely, and binding down the legs and 
wings with cords. Put them in a steamer over hot water, and 
let them cook until just done. Then place them in a pan with 
a little butter; set them in the oven and baste them frequently 
with melted butter until of a nice brown. They ought to brown 
nicely in about fifteen minutes. Serve them on a platter, with 
sprigs of parsley alternating with currant jelly. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

After the birds are nicely cleaned, cut them open down the 
back; salt and pepper them, and dredge with flour. Break 
•down the brest and back-bones, so they will lie flat, and place 
them in a pan with a very little water and butter in a hot oven, 
covering them up tightly until nearly done. Then place them 
in a spider in hot butter, and fry a moment a nice brown. 
Have ready slices of baker's bread toasted, and slightly buttered 
•upon a platter. The toast should be broken down with a carving 
knife, so that it will be tender. On this place the quails; make 
a sauce of the gravy, in the pan thicken lightly with browned 
iflour, and pour over each quail and the toast. 

A SUGGESTION. 

M. A. T. 

Singe all poultry with alcohol and dip quails into clarified 
butter for boiling. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

• Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Cut up the fowls and place in a kettle with a tight cover, so 
as to retain the steam ; put about two teacups of water and plenty 
of salt and pepper over the chicken, then let it cook until the 
meat cleaves easily from the bones, cut or chop all the meat 
(freed from skin, bones and grizzle) about as for chicken salad; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 31 



season well, put it into a dish and pour the remnant of the juice 
in which it was cooked over it. This will jelly when cold, and 
can then be sliced or set on the table in shape. Nice for tea or 
lunch. The nack of making this simple dish is in not having too 
much water; it will not jelly if too weak or if the water is allowed 
to boil away entirely while cooking. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Mrs. L. 

Make a fine puff paste; lay a border of it around a large dish, 
and cover the bottom with a veal cutlet, or a very tender steak 
free from fat and bone; season with salt, cayenne pepper and 
mace. Prepare as many pigeons as can be put in one layer in 
the dish; put into each pigeon a small lump of butter, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt; lay them in the dish breast downwards, 
and cut in slices a half dozen of hard boiled eggs, and lay in with 
the birds; put in more butter, some veal broth, and cover the 
whole with crust. Bake slowly for an hour and a half. 



JA^ATS. 



"Cook, see all your sawces 

Be sharp and poynant in the palate, that they may 

Commend you ; look to your roast and baked meats handsomely, 

And what new kickshaws and delicate made things. 

— BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING MEATS. 

All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that the salt may 
be extracted while cooking. Fresh meat which is boiled to be 
served with sauces at the table, should be put to cook in boiling 
water, when the outer fibres contract, the inner juices are pre- 
served. 



32 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

For making soup, put the meat over in cold water, to extract 
the juices for the broth. 

In boiHng meats, if more water is needed, add that which is 
hot, and be careful to keep the water on the meat constantly 
boiling. 

Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. The. more 
gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. Allow twenty 
minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat. 

Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. Twenty min- 
utes is required for roasting each pound of fresh . meat. The 
variation in roasted meats consists simply in the method of pre- 
paring them to cook, before putting in the oven. Some are to 
be larded; some stuffed with bread dressing, and others plain, 
only seasoning with pepper and salt. 

HINTS FOR COOKING MEATS. 

E. E. Masey. 

A tough piece of meat can be made tender by cooking for 
several hours, in water at a simmering heat. The fibre of meats 
is toughened by being subjected to a high temperature. It is 
upon this theory that Warren's Patent Cooker is constructed. 
The same results can be obtained by carefully watching the pro- 
cess of cooking, to prevent rapid boiling. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with flour, and sea- 
soning with salt and pepper; place in the oven, and baste 
frequently while roasting. Allow a quarter of an hour for a 
pound of meat, if you like it rare ; longer if you prefer it well 
done. Serve with a sauce, made from the drippings in the pan, 
to which has been added a tablespoon of Harvey or Worcester- 
shire sauce, and a tablespoon of tomato catsup. Thicken with 
with browned flour, and serve in a gravy boat. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs Perry H. Smith. 

Put in a sauce pan one ounce of butter, a small onion chopped 
fine, a little ground sage, and a little thyme, and put it over the 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 33 



fire ; when hot, shake in two tablespoons of flour, and when it 
becomes brown, put in one gill of water, and let it boil for half 
an hour. Then add three tablespoons of beef stock, a little salt, 
a little nutmeg and one wine glass of sherry wine. But in one 
can of mushrooms, and let it boil for ten minutes. Pour this 
over a nicely broiled beefsteak. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron over hot coals, hav- 
ing greased the bars with butter before the steak has been put 
upon it; (a steel gridiron with slender bars is to be preferred, the 
broad flat iron bars of gridirons commonly used, fry and scorch 
the meat, imparting a disagreeable flavor.) When done on one 
side, have ready your platter warmed, with a little butter on it; 
lay the steak upon the platter with the cooked side down, that 
the juices which have gathered may run on the platter, but do 
not press the meat; then lay your beefsteak again upon the grid- 
iron quickly and cook the other side. When done to your liking, 
put again on the platter, spread lightly with butter, place where 
it will keep warm for a few moments, but not to let the butter 
become oily, (over boiling steam is best;) and then serve on hot 
plates. Beefsteak should never be seasoned with salt and pepper 
while cooking. If your meat is tough, pound well with a steak 
mallet on both sides. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Miss Sarah Page. 
Take a piece of beef four or five inches thick, and with a small 
knife make small holes entirely through it at small distances 
apart. Then take strips of fat salt pork, roll them in pepper and 
cloves. Lay on a pan, cover closely, and put over in a steamer, 
and steam for three hours. When done, thicken the gravy in 
the pan with a little flour. This is excellent when eaten as cold 
meat. 

BEEF WITH TOMATOES. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Eight pounds fresh plate beef, second cut; boil tender two 
quarts tomatoes, three cloves, plenty butter, pepper and salt; 



34 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

when cooked nice and thick, strain through a colander and pour 
over your beef and serve hot or cold. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Mrs. C. C. Stratton, Evanston. 

Take the round of beef steak, salt and pepper either side; pre- 
pare bread or crackers with oysters or without, as for stuffing a 
turkey; lay your stuffing on the meat; sew up, and roast about 
an hour; and if you do not see the wings and legs, you will think 
you have roast duck. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Mrs. S. B. Adams. 

Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped fine ; six eggs 
beaten together; five or six soda crackers rolled fine, little 
butter and suet, pepper, salt and sage, if you choose; make two 
loaves, roll in cracker; bake about an hour; slice when cold. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

Four pounds of round of beef chopped fine ; take from it all 
fat; add to it three dozen small crackers rolled fine, four eggs, 
one cup of milk, one tablespoon ground mace, two tablespoons 
of black pepper, one tablespoon melted butter ; mix well and put 
in any tin pan that it will just fill, packing it well ; baste with 
butter and water, and bake two hours in a slow oven. 

MEAT FROM SOUP BONES. 

Mrs. DeForest, Freeport. 

Before thickening the soup or putting in the vegetables, take 
out a large bowl of the liquor ; take the meat from the bones, 
chop it fine, season with catsup and spices ; pour over the liquor, 
which should be thick enough to jelly when cold ; put into molds 
and serve cold in slices. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 35 



BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. B. R. 

Chop fine some cold beef; beat two eggs and mix with the 
meat and add a little milk, melted butter, and salt and pepper. 
Make into rolls and fry. 

TO BOIL CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. A. \V. D. 

Put the meat in cold water; boil from five to six hours, then 
take out the bones; wrap it tightly in a towel: put on ice, with a 
weight to press it. 

PRESERVED BEEF. 

Mrs. Carter. 

For preserving one hundred pounds beef: Six pounds salt, 
two ounces salt-petre, two tablespoonfuls soda, two pounds sugar, 
four gallons water; mix well together; sprinkle the bottom of the 
barrel with salt; put in the beef with a very little salt between 
each layer ; pour over the brine and put on a weight to keep all 
well covered. 

TO CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

To each gallon of cold water, put one quart of rock salt, one 
ounce of saltpetre and four ounces of brown sugar, ( it need not 
be boiled;) as long as any salt remains undissolved, the meat will 
be sweet. If any scum should rise, scald and skim well; add. 
more salt, saltpetre and sugar; as you put each piece of meat into 
the brine, rub over with salt. If the weather is hot, gash the 
meat to the bone, and put in salt. Put a flat stone or some weight 
on the meat to keep it under the brine. 

Or this : To every four gallons of water allow two pounds of 
brown sugar, and six pounds of salt, boil about twenty minutes, 
taking off the scum ; the next day turn it on the meat packed in 
the pickling tub ; pour off this brine ; boil and strain every two 
months, adding three ounces of brown sugar and half a pound 
of common salt. It will keep good a year. Sprinkle the meat 



36 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



with salt the next day, wipe dry before turning the pickle over it. 
Let it entirely cover the meat; add four ounces saltpetre. Can- 
vas lids are excellent for covering as they admit the air and ex- 
clude flies. Mutton and beef may be kept sweet several weeks 
by simply rubbing well with dry salt and closely covering. Turn 
the pieces whenever the vessel is uncovered. 

BOILED TONGUE AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. A. L. Chatlain. 

Boil a pickled tongue till well done, then peel. For the 
•sauce, one can of tomatoes, boil half down, then strain, rub to- 
gether, one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of flour and a 
little salt, put these into the tomatoe, and let it come to a boil; 
then pour over the tongue and serve. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Mrs. J. Brown. 

Boil well in clear water until tender, seasoning the water with 
•salt; serve with egg sauce, and garnish with parsley, sliced 
lemons, or some sour jelly. 

MUTTON A LA VENISON. 

Mrs. J. B. L. 

Take a leg of mutton and lard it well with strips of salt pork 
inserted in deep slits in the meat, which has been previously 
rolled in pepper and cloves ; bake two hours or according to the 
size of the roast, basting frequently while in the oven; about 
an hour before serving, spread over it currant jelly, return to the 
oven and let it brown. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut them nicely, clearing away all ragged ends and edges; 
fry for a few moments covered closely, and then dip each piece 
in cracker crumbs and beaten egg, or you may prepare them as 
for frying ; then, lay them in a dripping pan, and put into the 
oven to bake ; baste frequently with a little melted butter and 
>vater. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 37 

ROAST VEAL. 

Mrs. D. S. F. 

Prepare a leg of veal for the oven, by washing, drying, and 
larding it with strips of fat bacon or ham, and dredging it well 
with flour, and seasoning with salt and pepper ; baste frequently 
and serve with the gravy thickened. A roast fillet of veal should 
be prepared by stuffing it with bread crumbs, seasoned with 
chopped ham, summer savory, pepper and salt. Dredge lightly 
with flour and bake. 

NECK PIECE OR SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Mrs. C. C. Stratton, Evanston. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a kettle ; put it on 
the stove ; when it begins to fry, put in the veal, season it and 
let it fry until brown ; then add water sufficient to cook it. When 
done take cream and flour well stirred, and thicken as for fricas- 
seed chicken, and you have a nice dinner, very like chicken and 
much cheaper. Two pounds of veal will make a dinner for six 
or eight, providing it is not all bone. 

VEAL PIE. 

Mrs. Houghteling. 

Three pounds of lean veal ; two slices of salt pork, chopped 
fine ; one coffee cup of bread crumbs, two eggs, salt, pepper and 
herbs to taste ; mix thoroughly and bake ; use cold as a relish. 

PATTIE OF VEAL. 

Mrs. L. J. Tilton. 
Three and one-half pounds of the leg of veal, fat and lean, 
chopped fine ; six or eight small crackers rolled fine ; two eggs, 
piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon of salt, one of 
pepper and one of nutmeg ; a slice of salt pork chopped fine. 
Work all together in the form of a loaf; put bits of butter and 
grate bread crumbs over the top. Bake two hours ; to be cut 
in slices when cold. 



Use J. S. Kirk & Cb'« Standard Soaps. 



38 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

VEAL PATTIE. 

M. A. P. 

Four pounds of veal and one and one-half pounds of salt pork 
chopped together, raw and very fine, with four rolled crackers ; 
two well beaten eggs, one lemon and one small onion ; salt, pep- 
per and sweet herbs to taste ; mix well and bake in a pan as you 
would a loaf of bread ; requires three hours. 

VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FRIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Cut the veal in small pieces three or four inches square ; dry 
with a towel; season to taste; have ready a beaten egg and 
crackers rolled fine, each on separate dishes ; dip each piece of 
the cutlet in the egg, then in the rolled cracker ; have enough 
lard or butter hot in your spider so that it will nearly cover the 
cutlets when you put them in. A rich gravy can be made after 
the meat is done, by adding a little boiling water. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Three and one-half pounds of lean and fat raw veal, chopped 
fine ; one slice of salt pork, six small crackers rolled fine, butter 
the size of an egg, two eggs, one tablespoon of salt, one table- 
spoon of pepper, one of sage, three of extract of celery; mix 
thoroughly. Pack tightly in a deep square tin ; cover with bits 
of butter and sprinkle fine cracker crumbs over the top; cover 
with another tin. Bake two hours, uncover and brown the top. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. Chas. Duffield. 

Six Boston crackers, three eggs, one tablespoonful of salt, pep- 
per and sage, or summer savory; three pounds of veal. The veal 
must be raw and chopped fine; mix all well together and pack 



Use J. S, Kirk A Co^s Standard Soaps — " Savon Imperial,'* 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 39 

it hard in a deep tin pan ; bake slowly for one hour ; a table- 
spoonful of butter improves it. This is a nice relish for tea, and 
should be sliced thin, when cold. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. G. W. Brayton and others. 

Three pounds raw veal ; one-half pound raw salt pork chopped 
fine; three Boston crackers rolled fine, or bread crumbs; three 
eggs, one teaspoon black pepper, little sage, little mace or nut- 
meg, one tablespoon of salt. Make in a loaf and baste while 
baking with butter size of an egg with water, and put on out- 
side of loaf a small quantity of rolled crackers. Bake about 
three hours. Is very nice cold, cut in thin slices. 

SPICED VEAL. 

Mrs. C. E. Brown, Evanston. 
Take four pounds veal, chop it fine and season highly with salt, 
pepper, cloves and cinnamon; add four small crackers rolled 
out, one egg, and a lump of butter nearly the size of an egg;, 
mix throughly together and press it in a baking tin, and bake 
about two and a half hours. When thoroughly cold, slice for 
tea. Some prefer it in rolls, convenient for slicing, and baked 
from one half to three quarters of an hour. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

M. A. T. 
Boil the veal tender, pick it up fine, put in a mould, add the 
water it was boiled in, and set it in a cold place; season with salt 
and pepper to taste; a layer of hard boiled eggs improves it. 

FRICANDEAU. 

Mrs. J. M. Brown, and Mrs. M. L. 
Three and one half pounds of cold roast veal chopped fine, 
one table spoon of salt and one of pepper, one half a nutmeg, 
four or five rolled crackers, three eggs. If the veal is lean, add 



*' White Huasian"' aT^d"^fottled Oerman" — Beat Brands Known. 



40 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



a piece of butter half as large as an egg and tablespoon of cream. 
Form all this in a large roll, and spot the roll over with bits of 
butter ; then strew over it the pounded crackers, ( a little of the 
cracker should be mixed with the meat;) put it in the oven, and 
from time to time, add a little water. Cook slowly two hours. 
When cold slice thin, and it makes an excellent relish. 

.^ CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Dr. I. N. Isham. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of ham, 
fat and lean; chop together very fine, add half as much grated 
bread, salt and pepper, nutmeg, one tablespoon catsup, one tea- 
spoon made mustard, lump of butter; knead well together; make 
up in little rolls or balls, dip in beaten yolks of eggs; cover with 
grated bread and fry brown in lard; no butter is used, except 
for chickens. 

CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN, VEAL OR SWEET 
BREAD. 

"S[^ Mrs. Gen. N. J. T. Dana. 

Put in a stew pan a piece of butter size of an egg, one spoon- 
ful of flour, a little pepper, salt and nutmeg; let it melt and mix 
well; chop the meat, but not too fine; put in the mixture and 
stir till well mixed; when cold, add the yolks of two eggs to bind 
it; roll into oblong shape, dip it into egg beaten with a little pep- 
per and salt ; roll in crumbs of bread or powdered crackers and 
fry in boiling lard. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Scald in salt and water, take out the stringy parts ; then put in 
cold water a few minutes ; dry in a towel ; dip in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry brown in butter; when done place in a hot dish; 
pour into the pan a cup of sweet cream, a little pepper and salt, 
and a little parsley chopped fine ; add flour, and when boiling, 
pour over the sweet breads ; add mushrooms, if desired. 

Use J. S. Kirk & Co^s Standard Soaps— '^ Savon Imperial,^'' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 41 



SWEET BREADS, BROILED. 

Mrs. Bates. 

Parboil, rub them well with butter and broil on a clean grid- 
iron ; turn them often and now and then roll them over in a 
plate containing hot melted butter, to prevent them from getting 
hard and dry. 

CALF'S LIVER— FRIED. 

Cut in thin slices; wash and drain them, roll them in corn 
meal or cracker crumbs, and fry "in fresh or salt pork gravy or 
butter. 

CALF'S LIVER— STEWED. 

Boil till partly done ; take out of the sauce pan ; chop in smar 
pieces ; put back in the sauce pan ; skim well ; stew until tender ; 
season with butter, pepper and salt; thicken with a little flour, 
and serve over slices of toasted bread. 

TO ROAST VENISON. 

Mrs. Porter. 
Wash a saddle of venison thoroughly in several waters, then 
rub it over with vinegar, red pepper and a little salt ; lard with 
strips of salt pork rolled in seasoned bread crumbs ; season if you 
like, with sweet marjoram and sweet basil, one teaspoonful each, 
also pepper; then rub the whole over with currant jelly, and 
pour over it one bottle of claret wine. Let it stand over night, 
and next morning cover the venison with a paste made of flour 
and water half an inch thick ; then cover with soft paper, and 
secure well with strings; place it in the dripping pan with some 
claret, butter and water, and baste very often ; half an hour be- 
fore you take it up, remove paste and paper, baste it with butter 
and dredge with flour to make it brown. 

For Sauce.— Take a pound and a h»ilf of scraps of venison, with 
three pints of water, a few cloves, a few blades of mace, one- 
half a nutmeg, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste ; boil it down 



" White Russian" and ^* Mottled Oerman" — Beat Brands Known. 



42 . THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

to a pint, skim off the fat and strain ; add half a pint of currant 
jelly, one pint of claret and one-quarter pound of butter, divided 
into bits and rolled in flour. 

ROAST PIG. 

See that the pig has been well scalded; put in the body a 
stuffing of dry bread crumbs, seasoned with sage, salt and pep- 
per, and sew it up; skewer the legs back or the under part will 
not crisp; put in a hot oven after dredging well with flour, and 
baste it frequently while roasting with melted butter, or rub the 
pig with a cloth wet with melted butter. When done, serve 
whole on a platter, and garnish with parsley and celery tops 
alternately. Take off some of the fat from the gravy, set the rest 
on the top of the stove, thicken with a little flour, add a half a 
glass of sherry wine, and the juice of half a lemon and serve in 
a gravy boat. 

. HEAD CHEESE. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

To one head add one heart, one-half liver and one tongue; 
first clean the head very nicely, then put it in a brine for twenty- 
four hours; then boil it until it is very soft, pick out the bones 
and chop very fine; then add salt, pepper, four small onions and 
a little sage, if you wish; mix it very thoroughly and put it in a 
colander and set it over a kettle of hot water over night; in the 
morning put in the press and press it as cheese. 

SOUSE. 

When the pigs' feet and ears are well cleaned and scraped, put 
in cold water, and over the fire to boil; when tender, put them 
in a jar; prepare a pickle of half a gallon of cider vinegar, whole 
black pepper, mace and cloves; boil up with the vinegar, and 
*^hen pour over the pigs' feet. Let them stand for two or three 
days, when they will be ready for use. 



Use J. S. Kirk & Wa Standard Soaps — " Savon Imperial,'^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 43 



SAUSAGES. 

Mrs. C. Bradley and others. 

Six pounds of lean fresh pork, three pounds of fat pork, twelve 
teaspoons of sage, and six teaspoons of pepper, six teaspoons of 
salt, ( and two of cloves, and one nutmeg, if you prefer ; ) grind 
or chop very fine; mix these ingredients thoroughly, and pack in 
a jar, and pour hot lard over the top. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mrs, W. Butterfield. 

Take some boiled ham, and chop it very fine, mix it with a 
dressing composed of one dessert spoon of mustard, two of oil, one 
raw egg beaten very light, a little salt and pepi:)er; cut and 
spread the bread very thin. 

HAM SAND WITCHES. 

Mrs. W. Butterfield. 
Chop fine some cold boiled ham, a little fat with the lean; add 
tongue and chicken also chopped fine ; make a dressing of one- 
half a pound of butter, three tablespoons of salad oil, three of 
mustard, the yolk of one egg, and a little salt; mix well together 
and spread over the meat smoothly on thin slices of bread. 
Very nice. 

BOILED HAM. 

• Mrs. C. Waggoner, Toledo. 

Take a ham weighing about eight or ten poinds ; soak it for 
twelve or twenty-four hours in cold water ; then cover it with 
boiling water, add one pint of vinegar, two or three bay-leaves, 
a little bunch of thyme and parsley, (the dried and sifted will do, 
or even the seeds of parsley may be used, if the fresh can not be 
procured ) ; boil very slowly two hours and a half, take it out, 
skim it, remove all the fat, except a layer half an inch thick ; cut 
off with a sharp knife all the black-looking outside ; put the ham 

" WhUe Russian'^ and ''Mottled Oerman^'—JBeat Brands Known. 



44 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

into your dripping pan, ilit side uppermost, grate bread crust 
over it and sprinkle a teaspoon of powdered sugar over it ; put 
it in the oven for half an hour, until it is a beautiful brown. 
Eat cold ; cut the nicest portion in slices ; the ragged parts and 
odds and ends can be chopped fine and used for sandwiches ; or, 
by adding three eggs to one pint of chopped' ham, and frying 
brown, you have a delicious omelet for breakfast or lunch. The 
bones should be put in a soup-ketde, the rind and fat should be 
rendered and strained for frying potatoes and crullers. Ham 
cooked in this way will go much farther than when cooked in 
the ordinary manner. 

VEAL OMELET. 

Mrs. J. S. Gano. 

Three pounds of lean veal, two eggs, six small butter crackers, 
one tablespoon of thyme, one of salt, one of pepper, two of milk ; 
knead it like bread and bake it two hours in a slow oven, basting 
it with butter often, then slice for tea. 

TRAVELING LUNCH. 

Mrs. J. L. B. 

Chop sardines, ham and a few pickles quite fine; mix with 
mustard, pepper, catsup, salt and vinegar; spread between bread 
nicely buttered. This is to be cut crosswise, like jelly cake. 

• 

OMELET. 

M. A. T. 

Seven eggs beaten separately; add the yolks, one-half teacup 
sweet milk or cream, a teaspoon of flour, salt and pepper; after 
beating them very light, mix well; lastly, add the whites cut to a 
stiff froth; mix very lightly and only a little. Fry with butter on 
a quick fire. When brown, fold together and serve immediately. 
This will make two omelets. 
1 

Use J. S. Kirk <&■ Co^s Standard Soaps—" Savon Imperial^'* 











r{. -^--^^ ^;" 

/^x /' y ^ 

/ 






/r 






tfi-^t^:^^-^^ , ^„ 






^ 




A47// ^^ '^j/ifl^. 



■fi-^ 






<i^ '^^ r>^ '^Z^ 



^^.^>.^ , Ay^^--^ 



/i^-'^' 










'--0--^^ 




<^ ^l^^^-' 













VALUABLE RECIPES. 45 



OMELET. 

Miss E. C. Harris. 
One cup of milk, one tablespoon flour stirred into the milk ; 
four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; one-half table- 
spoon of melted butter stirred into the mixture ; a little salt. Stir 
in the whites before putting it into the spider. Cook on top of 
the stove about ten minutes, then set the spider in the oven to 
brown the top. To be eaten as soon as taken from the oven. 
Very nice. ' 

OMf:LET SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. Laml<in. 

One pint boiled milk, three spoonsful flour, yolks of seven 
eggs, beaten with the flour; season with pepper and salt, and 
add a piece of butter size of egg ; mix well, then add whites well 
beaten ; bake twenty minutes. 

FRIED OMELET. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 
Three eggs, two gills milk, two tablespoons flour, a little salt 
and pepper, fried on hot griddle. 

FRIAR'S OMELET. 

Mrs. DeForest, Freeport. 

Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce; stir in one-fourth pound of 
butter, ditto white sugar; when cold, add four well beaten eggs, 
and a few spoons of cream; put it into a baking dish, well but- 
tered, and thickly strewn with bread crumbs on the bottom and 
sides; strew currants over the top. Bake forty-five minutes; 
turn on a platter, and sift sugar over it. Serve with sugar and 
cream, or a boiled custard; the latter is much the nicer. 

OMELET. 

E. V. Case, Elmhurst. 

Take three eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately; to the 
yolks after they are beaten, add a half teaspoon of salt and a tea- 

" Tihite Russian'^ and ^^ Mottled Oerman'^—Best Brands Known. 



46 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



cup of rich cream, in which a heaping teaspoon of flour has 
been smoothly rubbed; lastly, stir in the whites which have been 
beaten as for cake ; have ready a spider in which has been melted 
a tablespoon of lard, and which is as hot as it can be and not be 
turned; pour in the mixture and let it stand till it is of a rich 
brown on the bottom. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

M. 
One cup boiling milk with one tablespoon of butter melted in 
it ; pour this on one cup bread crumbs, ( the bread must be 
light ) ; add salt, pepper and the yolks of six eggs well beaten ; 
mix thoroughly ; and lastly, add the six whites cut to a stiff froth ; 
mix lightly and fry with hot butter ; this will make two ; when 
almost done, turn together in shape of half-moon. 

BOILED OMELET. 

E. M. Walker. 

Four eggs well beaten up with a little pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
"Chopped parsley and chives ; one-half pint of cream ( or milk ) ; 
half fill little well buttered cups or moulds and set them in boil- 
ing water ; boil for ten minutes, then turn out. They may be 
served with a sauce. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Take six eggs, two tablespoons of flour, a little salt, one cup 
■of milk; take a little of the milk, and stir the flour into it; add 
the rest of the milk, and the yolks of the eggs; then beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and pour into the flour, milk 
and yolks; put a piece of butter the size of a small egg into an 
iron spider, and let it get hot, bu*-? not so the butter will burn; 
then pour the mixture in and put in a moderate oven to bake in 
the spider. It takes about ten minutes to bake. Then slip a 
knife under and loosen, and slip off on a large plate or platter. 

Use J. S. Kirk & Go's Standard Soaps— '^ Savon ImppriaJ," 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 47 



OMELET. 

' (With ham, cold tongue and other meats. ) 

Any of these omelets are nice, laid upon minced meat, which 
has been previously seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, bound 
together with beaten egg and a little sweet cream, and warmed 
in a pan. Then turn on the platter, and lay the omelet over it. 

SALTING PORK. 

A. M. G. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep; put 
down one layer of pork and cover that with salt half an inch, 
thick; continue thus, until all your pork is disposed of; then 
cover the whole with strong brine ; pack as tight as possible, the 
rind side down or next to the barrel ; keep the pork always un- 
der the brine by using an inner cover and clean stones. Should 
any scum arise, pour off the brine, scald it, and add more salt. 
Old brine can be boiled down, well skimmed and used for a 
fresh supply. 

CURING HAMS. 

Mrs. Mulford. 

Hang up the hams a week or ten days, the longer the tenderer 
and better, if kept perfectly sweet; mix for each good sized ham, 
one teacup of salt, one tablespoon of molasses, one ounce of 
salt-petre; lay the hams in a clean dry tub; heat the mixture and 
rub well into the hams, especially around the bones and recesses; 
repeat the process once or twice, or until all the mixture is used; 
then let the hams lie two or three days, when they must be put 
for three weeks in brine strong enough to bear an egg; then soak 
eight hours in cold water; hang up to dry in the kitchen or other 
more convenient place for a week or more; smoke from three to 
five days, being careful not tc heat the hams. Corn cobs and 
apple tree wood are good for smoking. The juices are better 
retained if smoked with the hock down. Tie up carefully in 
bags for the summer. 

'* White Russian" and "^ Mottled Oerman'^ — Beat Brands Knotvn. 



48 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

•  ~ J 

BOILED AND BAKED HAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil your ham tender; cover it with the white of a raw egg, 
and sprinkle sugar or bread crumbs over it; put it in the oven 
and brown; it is delicious also covered with a regular cake icing 
and browned. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

M. 
Wash and scrape the ham clean; put it on in cold water enough 
to cover it; put into the water two onions, two carrots, a head of 
celery, a dozen cloves and a handful of timothy hay; boil without 
stopping until the skin will readily peel from the ham; cover the 
ham with rolled crackers, or bread crumbs that have been brown- 
ed and rolled, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. 



U8e J. S. Kirk <& Co' 8 Standard Soaps — '^ Savon Imperial," 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 49 



&^v^^^m mnA 9%t%4m^ 



"To make this condiment, your poet begs 
The powdered yellow of two hard-boiled eggs; 
Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve. 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give ; 
Let onions atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, half suspected, animate the whole; 
Of mordant mustard, add a single spoon; 
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 
But, deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 
And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 

A magic soup con of anchovy sauce. 

O, green and glorious! O, herbaceous treat ! 

'T would tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl ; 

Serenely full, the epicure would say, 

'Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.' " 

— SIDNEY SMITH. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Drawn butter forms the basis of most sauces. From this a 
great variety may be made, by adding to this different flavors — 
anchovies, ochra, onions, celery, parsley, mint and relishes — us- 
ing those flavors, which are suitable for the meat, game or fish. 



*' White Hussian^^ and "Mottled Oermari'^ — Best Brands Known. 



iM^ 



60 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



with which the sauces are to be served. A good standard recipe 
for drawn butter, is as follows : 

Rub one tablespoon of flour, with one quarter of a pound of 
butter; when well mixed, put in a sauce pan with a tablespoon 
of milk or water; set it in a dish of boiling water, shaking it well 
until the butter melts and is near boiling. It should not be set 
directly on the stove or over the coals, as the heat will make the 
butter oily and spoil it. 

MELTED BUTTER OR PARSLEY SAUCE. 

M. A. T. 

One tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon flour, rubbed together; 
one tablespoon chopped parsley, first boiled five minutes in water 
and squeezed out; two tablespoons water; shake over a clear fire, 
OTU way, until it boils; add the parsley gradually. 

MINT SAUCE. 

M. A. T. 

Two tablespoons green mint, cut fine; two of sugar, and one- 
half teacup vinegar. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. M. B. * " 

Mix one tablespoon of white sugar to half a teacup of good 
vinegar; add the mint and let it infuse for half hour in a cool 
place before sending to the table. Serve with roast lamb or 
mutton. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mrs. /. B. L. 

Mix two tablespoons of flour with half a teacup of butter; have 
ready a pint of boiling milk; stir the flour and butter into the 
milk; take three heads of celery, cut into small bits, and boil for 
a few minutes in water, which strain off; put the celery into the 
melted butter, and keep it stirred over the fire, for five or ten 
minutes. This is very nice with boiled fowl or turkey. 



Vie J. S. Kirk & Go's Standard Soaps— ^^ Savon Imperial,'^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 61 



EGG SAUCE. 

Miss Hattie Buck, Adrian, Mich. 

Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard ; mash them with a 
teaspoon of mustard, a little pepper and salt, three tablespoons 
of vinegar, and three of salad oil. A tablespoon of catsup im- 
proves this for some. Nice for boiled fish. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. S. Horseman, Rockford, 111. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, two onions chop- 
ped fine, two cups of sugar, two tablespoons of salt, two tea- 
spoons of ground cloves, two teaspoons of mustard, two tea- 
spoons of cinnamon, two cups of vinegar, and boil half a day. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

/ Mrs. Houghteling. 

One peck of green tomatoes, cut in very thin slices ; sprinkle 
with salt ; press with a plate and leave to drain twenty-four hours. 
Then place in a porcelain kettle in layers with the following mix- 
ture : — six large onions cut in slices, one small bottle of mustard, 
one-quarter pound mustard seed, two teaspoons cloves, four tea- 
spoons black pepper, two teaspoons ginger, four teaspoons all- 
spice. Cover with vinegar and simmer two hours or until the 
tomato looks clear. All the spices should be ground. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. L. T. 

Take oysters out of their li(iuor and throw them into cold wa- 
ter ; put the liquor over the fire with the beards of the oysters, 
and boil with a bit of mace and lemon peel ; then strain the 
licjuor; take the oysters out of the water and drain them, and. 
put oysters and strained liquor into a saucepan, with sufficient 
butter and milk for your sauce ; dust in to this flour ; let it boil 
up; add a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve hot. 



*' White Huasian^^ and ^'Mottled German'^ — Best Brands Known. 



62 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Boil three or four white onions until they are tender, and then 
mince them fine ; put one half pint of milk over to boil ; add a 
piece of butter half size of egg, and a little salt and pepper ; stir 
in the minced onion and a tablespoon of flour, which has been 
moistened with milk ; let it cream over boiling water. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Henry M. Knickerbocker. 
Twenty-four large ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, four 
large onions, three tablespoons salt, eight tablespoons brown 
sugar, six teacups vinegar. Chop the peppers and onions very 
fine ; peel the tomatoes and cut very small ; put all into a kettle 
and boil gently one hour. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Etta C. Springer. 

One peck ripe tomatoes boiled one hour ; add a cup of salt, 
one quart of vinegar, one ounce whole cloves, one ounce cinna- 
mon, one ounce allspice, one ounce ground white mustard, one 
quart of onions sliced, a little celery, a little horse-radish, one- 
half pound of sugar, six red peppers. 

CHILI SAUCE WITH SPICE. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 
Eighteen tomatoes, (ripe ones;) one green pepper chopped 
fine; three onions, if that flavor is desired; two tablespoons of 
salt; one-half cup of sugar, two cups of vinegar, one teaspoon of 
■each kind of spice; stew slowly; tomatoes to be sliced. Good 
without onion. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. H. Dennison, Highland Park, 111. 
To nine large ripe tomatoes and three green peppers, add one 
•onion chopped fine, two cups of vinegar, two tablespoons of 
sugar, and one of salt; steam one hour, then add one teaspoon 
of ginger, one of allspice, and one of cloves. 



For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 53 



HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Two teaspoons of made mustard, two of white sugar, half a 
teaspoon of salt, and a gill of vinegar; mix and pour over grated 
horse-radish. Excellent with beef. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a very little boiling water over three tablespoons of 
mustard; add one saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of olive oil, 
stirred slowly in, and one teaspoon of sugar ; add the yolk of an 
egg, beaten well together, and pour in vinegar to taste. It is 
best eaten next day. 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Yolks of two raw eggs, (not a particle of the white, or your 
sauce will curdle) and one and a half mustardspoons of made 
mustard, mixed together; add very slowly the best salad oil, 
stirring constantly until you can reverse the dish without spilling; 
then add one tablespoon of vinegar and cayenne and black pep- 
per to taste, one-half teaspoon salt; stir briskly until quite light; 
colored, and serve on lobster, lettuce or fish. 

CURRY POWDER. 

Mrs. F. S. Page, Rockford, III. 

Mix an ounce of ginger, one of mustard one of black pepper, 
three of cariander seed, three of turmeric, quarter of an ounce 
of cayenne pepper, half an ounce of cardamon, half an ounce of 
cummin seed and cinnamon ; pound the whole very fine, sift 
and keep it in a bottle corked tight. To be used for gravies for 
ducks and other meats. 

MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. M. E. 

Put one teacup of butter in an earthen dish ; have ready two 
large tablespoons of parsley, which has been boiled for a few 

 * 

Use J. S. Kirk <& Wa Superior Soaps. 



64 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

moments in water ; chop fine and add to the butter the juice 
of two lemons ; add cayenne pepper and salt to taste ; let it boil a 
few moments. An excellent sauce for a variety of meats. 

CELERY VINEGAR. 

Soak one ounce of celery seed in half a pint of vinegar; bottle 
it and use to flavor soups and gravies. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens. 

Eight quarts gooseberries, four pounds of sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one-half ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon; boil four hours; 
careful not to let it burn. 



GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

Eight pounds ripe or partially ripe fruit, four pounds brown 
sugar; one pint good vinegar, two ounces each fine cloves and 
cinnamon tied in a bag; boil the berries and sugar for three or 
four hours, then add spice; boil a little more; put in a jar and 
cover well. Will keep two years, by occasionally scalding and 
adding little vinegar and spice. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Take a dozen large ripe cucumbers; pare and cut them open, 
and take out all the seeds ; then grate them ; make a bag like a 
jelly-bag of some thin muslin cotton, and hang them up to drain 
over night; chop two or three onions and two or three green 
peppers, a tablespoon of salt, and thin substance left in the bag, 
with a quart of best vinegar. If made of good vinegar, will keep 
two or three years. ' 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 55 



CURRANT CATSUP. 

Mrs. Packard. 

Three quarts currant juice, two pounds sugar, one ounce cin- 
namon, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon mustard, one table- 
spoon black pepper, one-half pint vinegar, one-half teacup salt; 
boil well together, care being taken not to scorch. 

' CURRANT CATSUP. 

Etta C. Springer. 

Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, two teaspoons of allspice, two teaspoons of cloves, two 
of mustard, one teaspoon cayenne pepper; boil two hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. J. B. King. 

Boil one bushel of tomatoes until quite soft; strain through a 
seive and add half gallon vinegar, one and a half pounds salt, 
two ounces whole cloves, quarter pound allspice, two teaspoons 
red pepper, three teaspoons black peppers, five heads garlic, 
chopped fine ; boil three or four hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. H. F. Waite. 

One gallon ripe tomatoes, four tablespoons full of salt, four 
tablespoons full of black pepper, three tablespoons mustard, 
one-half tablespoon allspice, one-half tablespoon cloves, six red 
peppers; simmer the above in vinegar sufficient to cover the 
mixture three or four hours; then strain through a seive, and 
cork in bottles. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. N. P. Iglehart. 

Slice your tomatoes as you do cucumbers; sprinkle salt on 
every two layers of tomatoes; let them stand twenty-four hours, 

Use J. S. Kirk & Co's Superior Soaps. 



56 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

after which strain them through a cloth or sieve; boil two gallons 
to one, or in that proportion ; whatever quantity, boil down one- 
half; then add one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, one ounce 
mace, one ounce black pepper, one ounce allspice, one nutmeg 
and one quart of port wine to two gallons of juice. The spices 
are to be ground. Boil all together, after the ingredients are 
added, one-half hour. This will keep seven years without fer- 
menting. This quantity of spice is for one gallon of catsup. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. C. E. Browne, Evanston. 

Take any quantity of tomatoes you choose; pour boiling water 
over them and remove the skins; add vinegar and sugar in about 
the same proportions as for sweet pickles, or to suit the taste; 
also salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon and other spices if preferred; 
boil in porcelain or brass kettle, until the tomatoes are perfectly 
dissolved and the original quantity is diminished one-half. It is 
better not to add the spices until it is about half done. A favorite 
relish for cold meats. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Morgan, Rockford, 111. 

Cut the white meat of chickens into small bits, the size of 
peas, ( also the dark meat, if you like ) ; chop the whole parts of 
celery nearly as small ; prepare a dressing thus : Rub the yolks 
of hard boiled eggs smooth ; to each yolk, put half a teaspoon of 
mustard, the same quantity of salt, a tablespoon of oil, and a 
wine glass of vinegar ; mix the chicken and celery in a large 
bowl and pour over this dressing, with a little cream added. 
The dressing must not be put on till just before it is served. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Higgins. 
Two chickens, chopped coarse; eight heads of celery, three 
eggs, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon flour, one tablepoon sugar, 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



one tablespoon melted butter, one-half tablespoon mustard, salt 
and pepper ; mix the other ingredients thoroughly and stir in the 
vinegar boiling hot; a teacup of chopped ham and a little of the 
oil from the chicken imj)rove the salad; when the dressing is 
cold, mix with the chicken and celery. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mary Norton. 

Take the breasts of four well boiled chickens, cut in small 
pieces, but not too fine; mix with the chicken eight teacups of 
celery cut also in small pieces, and with the above, the chopped 
whites of twelve hard-boiled eggs. For dressing the yolks of 
four raw eggs ; beat into them half of an ordinary sized bottle of 
olive oil, beginning with a teaspoonful, and adding no more than 
that at a time, until it is all thoroughly mixed; then add the well 
mashed and pulverized yolks of twelve eggs, salt and pepper, a 
pinch of cayenne pepper, and a gill of vinegar; then stir this 
dressing thoroughly into the mixed chicken celery and whites of 
eggs. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Chas. DuBicld. 

The yolks of six eggs, well beaten; one-half pint of melted 
butter, or the same quantity of olive oil; three tablespoons of 
mixed mustard, (or more, if it is not very strong; ) salt to taste; 
two teaspoons of celery seed; mix thoroughly; then add three, 
fourths of a pint of strong vinegar; place over the fire, stirring 
constantly until it becomes thick, like boiled custard. Turn the 
mixture over the chickens, which have previously been chopped 
(not very fine.) Just before bringing to the table, add four heads 
of chopped celery. If it is not strong enough of spice, add more 
mustard and cayenne pepper. This is enough for one boiled 
turkey, or three small chickens. The some dressing makes an 
excellent mixture for sandwiches, if used with finely chopped 
boiled ham or beef tongue, but should not be salted. 

U%e J. S. Kirk & Cb*« Superior Soaps. 



58 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Hobbs. 

Three chickens chopped fine, both light and dark meat ; the 
juice of two lemons ; eight or ten eggs boiled hard ; the whites 
chopped fine and the yolks mashed fine, moistened with six tea- 
spoons melted butter, two of sweet oil ; to which add one table- 
spoon of mustard, one of pepper, one of salt, one of sugar, three 
of cream ; and last, add six large bunches of celery chopped fine, 
with sufficient vinegar to moisten the whole. 

SWEET BREAD SALAD. 
Mrs. D. C. B. 

Four hard boiled eggs, one raw egg, three tablespoons of salad 
oil, one teaspoon of salt, one of pepper, two of sugar, two of 
mixed mustard, one half a tea cup of vinegar one calf's sweet 
bread, and two heads of lettuce. For dressing, mash the yolks 
and mix the oil thoroughly in them ; then add the raw egg well 
beaten ; mix the other ingredients in slowly and thoroughly, add- 
ing the vinegar last. Boil the sweet bread thoroughly until ten- 
der ; pick it up in small pieces ; break the lettuce also in small 
pieces, and then put in a dish alternate layers of lettuce, and 
sweet bread and dressing. Use the whites of the eggs sliced 
over the top. 

For salmon salad, use the same dressing, omitting the sweet 
breads, and substituting salmon. Put the salmon on a platter, 
pour over it the dressing and garnish with celery leaves. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. S. I. D. 

Two lobsters, picked fine; four heads of fresh lettuce, cut fine; 
put in a dish in layers with the lobsters; boil your eggs, mash 
the yolks, add three tablespoons of melted butter, a teaspoon of 
mustard, cayenne pepper and salt; two tablespoons of sugar, two 
cups of vinegar; heat together and pour over when served. 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 59 



FISH SALAD. 
M. A. T. 

Boil tender a white fish or trout; chop fine: add same quantity 
chopped celery, cabbage or lettuce; season same as chicken salad. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Mrs. G. E. P. 
Boil veal until very tender, chop fine and stir into it a nice 
salad dressing; put in a shallow dish and garnish with slices of 
lemon and celery; a little chopped cabbage or lettuce may be 
added, if desired. Boiled ham chopped and seasoned and served 
in the same manner, is a very nice dish. 

POTATO SALAD. 

M. A. T. 

Sliced cold boiled potatoes ; almonds blanched and quartered ; 
hichory-nuts, also, if liked; (both of these may be omitted.) 
A very small quantity of chopped onions ; pour over this any 
good salad dressing, not too much, and garnish with chopped 
parsley ; cold boiled beets, sliced lemon, and anchovies, may be 
added to the salad, if liked. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Mrs. King. 

Take a dozen ripe "white spine" cucumbers; wash, pare and 
cut into strips, taking out the seeds; cut into pieces, like small 
dice; to each dozen cucumbers, take twelve large white onions 
chopped; six large green peppers, also chopped; one quarter 
pound each of black and white mustard seed, and a gill of celery 
seed; mix all well together; add a teacup of salt, and hang up in 
a cotton bag to drain for twenty-four hours. Then add enough 
clear cold vinegar to cover it; put into stone jars and fasten near- 
ly air tight. In six weeks, it will be fit for use. Excellent 



Use J. S. Kirk d- Oo'« Superior Soaps. 



60 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Miss Spruance, 

Twelve tomatoes^ peeled and sliced; four eggs, boiled hard; 
one egg (raw,) well beaten; one teaspoon salt; one-half teaspoon 
cayenne pepper; one teaspoon sugar; one teacup of vinegar; set 
on ice to become perfectly cold. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoon of butter, eight tablespoons 
of vinegar; one-half teaspoon of mustard; put in a bowl over 
boiling water and stir until it becomes like cream; pepper and 
salt to your taste. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

M. A. T. 
Take the yolks of two raw eggs, beat with them one teaspoon 
of made mustard ; this mustard should be mixed with water, not vin- 
egar ; then add to this, drop by drop, olive oil, stirring constantly 
until the mixture becomes very thick; then add two teaspoonsful 
of powdered sugar and a scant one of salt; mix thoroughly; 
squeeze in the juice of one lemon; beat well, and if too thick, 
thin with a little sweet cream. If perferred, omit the lemon and 
cream, and use vinegar. This dressing with lettuce, celery or 
potato, makes a delicious salad. If used for chicken salad, the 
yolks of hard boiled eggs added make it richer. Garnish lettuce 
with nasturtium blossoms and sliced lemon. Garnish potatoes 
with cold boiled beets, chopped parsley and sliced lemon. 

DRESSING FOR LETTUCE. 

Mrs. H. E. Sargent. 

Yolks of three hard boiled eggs ; half teaspoon salt ; one tea- 
spoon made mustard ; four teaspoons sweet oil ; four tablespoons 
cream; three tablespoons vinegar; one raw egg beaten to a froth; 

For the Bath., Toilet, or Laundry, 



\ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 61 



rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine powder, then add the salt, 
mustard and oil, mixing well together ; then add the cream ; and 
after that the vinegar and raw egg. 

DRESSED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. B, J. Seward. 

One small teacup vinegar, one egg, two tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, butter half the size of an egg ; beat the egg be- 
fore mixing ; stir till boils ; cool, then pour over chopped or shav- 
ed cabbage. 

HOT SLAW. 

Anonymous. 

Cut cabbage in fine shreds; boil in clear water until tender, 
allowing so little that when done there will be very little left in 
the stew pan; just before dishing, add a teacup of vinegar, a 
tablespoon of butter, a little salt and pepper. 

COLD SLAW. 
Carter. 

Shave hard white cabbage very fine; for one quart of this slaw 
take yolks of three eggs; beat them well, stir into them one tum- 
bler and a half of good vinegar, two teaspoons of thick sweet 
cream, a small piece of butter, a teaspoon of mixed mustard; salt 
and pepper to taste; mix all together with the yolks and put into 
a stew pan where it will boil; add the cabbage and let it boil five 
minutes, stirring all the time; dish the slaw and set it where it 
will get cold; if the vinegar is very strong, use less in proportion. 
Add two teaspoons of sugar, if liked. 



Use J. S. Kirk & Oo's Superior Soaps. 



62 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Or^n^fn^t mn4 Smyi^^r^ 



*' Dinner may be pleasant ; 

So may social tea ; 
But yet, methinks the breakfast 
Is best of all the three." . 

— Anon. 



R.ELISHES. 



OYSTER STEW. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewing. 
Strain the juice from the oysters placed in the colander into a 
stew pan ; let it come to a boil ; remove the scum and a clear 
liquor will remain ; turn cold water upon the oysters, and rinse 
thoroughly ; add them to the liquor, with a cup of cream or milk, 
butter, salt and cayenne pepper. Have ready buttered dice- 
shaped pieces of toast upon a meat dish ; pour the oysters over, 
;garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

TOAST. 

Toast the bread very quickly, dip each slice in boiling water, 
(a little salt in the water,) as soon as you have toasted it; then 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



spread it with butter ; cover and keep hot as you proceed. Make 
milk toast in the same way, keeping the milk at nearly boiling 
heat ; it is better to spread the butter on to the bread after it is 
dipped in hot milk, than to melt it in the milk ; thicken what 
milk is left very little, and pour over the toast when sent to the 
table. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Mrs. M. J. Savage. 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet milk and 
a little salt. Slice light bread, and dip into the mixture, allow- 
ing each slice to absorb some of the milk ; then brown on a hot 
buttered griddle ; spread with butter and serve hot. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

M. A. P. 
Take cold boiled tongue, mince it fine ; mix it with cream or 
milk, and to every half pint of the mixture, allow the well beaten 
yolks of two eggs ; place over the fire and let it simmer a minute 
or two ; have ready some nicely toasted bread ; butter it ; place it 
on a hot dish and pour the mixture c^er; send to the table hot. 

LEMON TOAST. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them well and add three cups 
of sweet milk ; take baker's bread not too stale and cut into slices ; 
dip them into the milk and eggs, and lay the slices into a spider, 
with sufficient meltted butter hot to fry a nice delicate crown ; 
take the whites of the six eggs, and beat them to a froth, adding 
a large cup of white sugar; add the juice of two lemons, heating 
well, and adding two cups boiling water; serve over the toast as 
a sauce, and you will find it a very delicious dish. 

FRIED BREAD IN BATTER. 

M. A. T. 

Take one tablespoon sweet light dough ; dissolve it in one cup 
sweet milk ; add three or four eggs, one and a half cups flour, 

U»e J. S. Kirk <k Go's Superior Soaps. 



64 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one teaspoon of salt ; cut some thin slices of light bread, dip in 
this batter ; and fry in hot lard ; sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
^nd garnish with jelly. 

COD-FISH BALLS. 

Mrs. Banks. 

Take four cups of mashed potatoes ; three cups of boiled cod- 
fish minced fine ; add butter ; mix well together ; then add two 
well beaten eggs, beating it up again thoroughly ; drop by spoon- 
fulls into hot lard and fry the same as doughnuts. 

COD-FISH HASH. 

Mrs. N. P. Wilder. 

One pint boiled picked codfish well freshened, one quart cold 
boiled chopped potatoes mixed well together, three slices salt 
pork freshened, cut in very small pieces and fried brown ; re- 
move half the pork, and add your fish and potatoes to the re- 
mainder; let it stand and steam five minutes without stirring; 
careful not to let it burn ; then add one-third cup milk and stir 
thoroughly ; put the remainder of the pork around the edge of the 
spider, and a little butter over it ; simmer it over a slow fire for 
half an hour, until a brown crust is formed, when turn it over on 
a platter and serve. 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop fine cold beef, either boiled or baked ; have ready cold 
boiled potatoes ; to one pint of meat, put one pint and a little 
more of potatoes, chopped fine; have ready a spider, with a 
good piece of butter in it ; put in the hash ; season with pepper 
and salt, and then add rich milk or cream. Milk is a very great 
improvement. 

BREAKFAST STEAK. 

A nice steak of beef or veal ; pound it with a steak mallet, if 
tough ; lay in a baking tin, dredge it lightly with flour, season 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIFE8. 65 

with salt and pepper, and if you like, a little chopped parsley ; 
then put in the oven, and bake for twenty or thirty minutes, or 
until sufficiently well done ; take it up, put it on the platter, spread 
with butter, and dredge into the juices of the meat in the bak- 
ing pan, a little flour, and season with butter ; let this boil up, 
and pour over steak. This is very nice. 

SIDE DISH. 

R. A. Sibley. 

Chopped cold meat well seasoned ; wet with gravy, if conven- 
ient, put it on a platter ; then take cold rice made moist with 
milk and one egg, season with pepper and salt; if not sufficient 
rice, add powdered bread crumbs ; place this around the platter 
quite thick ; set in the oven to heat and brown. 

ANOTHER SIDE DISH. 

R. A. Sibley. 

Cold turkey, chicken or any cold meat, chopped fine, season- 
ed with salt, pepper and gravy ; lay pie crust round the edge of 
the platter, and cover the same ; bake a nice brown in the oven. 
Very little meat makes quite a dish for several persons. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Anonymous. 

Take pieces of cold ham chopped, and after cooking, add 
beaten eggs to suit your taste. 

A NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

H. N. Jenks. 

Mince cold beef or lamb; if beef put in a pinch of pulverized 
cloves ; if lamb, a pinch of summer savory to season it, very 
little pepper and some salt, and put it in a baking dish ; mash 
potatoes and mix them with cream and butter and a little salt, 

Use J. S. Kirk & Ws Superior Soaps. 



66 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



and spread them over the meat ; beat up an egg with cream or 
milk, a very little ; spread it over the potatoes, and bake it a 
short time, sufficient to warm it through and brown the potatoes. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

S. S. Peirce. 

Take cold roast meat, (either beef, veal or mutton;) clear it 
from gristle; chop fine; season with pepper and salt; boil and 
mash some potatoes, and make them into a paste with one or 
two eggs; roll it out with a little flour; cut it round with a saucer; 
put your seasoned meat on one-half; fold it over like a puff; turn 
it neatly around, and fry it a light brown. Nice for breakfast. 

KICE CAKES. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

One teacup of soft boiled rice, the yolk of one egg, a pinch of 
salt, two tablespoons of sifted flour, beaten well together; add 
sweet milk until it is about the consistency of sponge cake or 
thick cream, and just before baking stir in lightly the beaten 
white of the egg. The less flour used the better for invalids. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Chaffee, Detroit. 

One plump chicken, two pounds veal cut from the round. 
Boil chicken and veal separately in cold water, just enough to 
cover ; pick to pieces and chop. Cut up one-third of a loaf of 
bread and soak in the broth of the chicken while warm ; put all 
in a chopping bowl ; season with salt, pepper, mace and nut- 
meg; beat three eggs light and mix with the above ingredients; 
make up in oblong balls ; fry brown in hot lard and butter equal 
parts. 



For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. G7 



BI^EAI^FA^ST C^4.Ii:ES. 



LAPLANDERS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Mrs. A. L. Chetlain. 

Three eggs, three cups of flour, three cups sweet milk, one 
tablespoon of melted butter, and a little salt; beat well together^ 
then bake in iron moulds. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

Mrs. Brown. 

One cup sweet milk, one and a half cups flour, one egg, one 
teaspoon salt ; beaten together five minutes ; bake in hot gem. 
pans, in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

BREAKFAST BUNS. 

Mrs. J. W. Preston. 

Two cups of flour, three-fourths cup of corn meal, three-fourths 
cup of butter, one-half c»p of sugar, two eggs unbeaten, one 
cup of milk, three teaspoons baking powder; bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter ; stir well together, 
and then add one or two eggs ; put in one good pint of sweet 
milk, and with sufficient flour to make a batter about as stiff" as 
cake ; put in three teaspoons of baking powder ; bake and eat 
hot with butter, for tea or breakfast. 

Vie J. S. Kirk & Co's Superior Soaps, 



68 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

One pint of flour, three tablespoons of butter, three table- 
spoons of sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda ; to be eaten with butter. 

V 

RYE CAKES FOR TEA. 

Harriet N. Jenks. 

Two teacups of rye flour, one of wheat flour, one of sour milk, 
one-half teaspoon of soda, put in the sour milk, and while foam- 
ing' stir it in the flour and rye, with one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-half teacup of molasses; make it stiff" and turn it into a but- 
tered pan; spread it smooth with a spoon dipped in hot water; 
bake one-half hour. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir into sour milk sufficient rye flour to make a batter for 
•griddle cakes; add salt, and a little soda, and bake on a hot 
.griddle. These are very simple, but very nice. 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Jeannie Brayton. 

One quart of corn meal; scald and cool; one pint of flour, two 
•eggs, one teaspoon soda, two of cream-tartar, a little milk, salt; 
make as thick as pancakes, and fry in hot lard. Nice for 
breakfast. 

GRAHAM BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of wheat flour, two eggs 
well beaten; mix with sweet milk, to make a very thin batter; 
bake in gem irons; have the irons hot, then set them on the upper 
.grate in the oven; will bake in fifteen minutes. 

For the Bath, Toilet, or Laundry, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 69 



TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. II. P. Stowell. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, piece of butter 
size of an egg, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one pint of flour. Eaten warm. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Pour boiling water on the thick milk in the pan in which it 
has turned, stirring while you pour ; as soon as the milk separates 
from the whey and begins to appear cooked, let it settle ; in a 
minute or two most of the water and whey can be poured off; if 
not sufficiently cooked, more hot water may be used ; set the pan 
on edge and with your spoon or hand draw the curd to the up- 
per side, pressing out as much water as possible ; if desired, it 
can stand a few moments in cold water ; when squeezed dry, 
work the curd fine, rolling it between the hands ; add salt and 
cream to taste ; in very warm weather when the milk has turned 
quickly, it is very palatable without the addition of cream. 






See dying vegetables life sustain ; 
See life dissolving, vegetate again. 

— Pope. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Old potatoes are better for being peeled and put in cold water 
an hour before putting over to boil. They should then be put 
into fresh cold water, when set over the fire. New potatoes 
should always be put into boiling water, and it is best to pre- 
pare them just in time for cooking. 

Uae J. S. Kirk <t (Jo's Superior Soaps. 



70 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

\ POTATOES AND CREAM. 

Mince cold boiled potatoes fine ; put them into a spider with 
melted butter in it ; let them fry a little in the butter well cover- 
ed ; then put in a fresh piece of butter, season with salt aftd pep- 
per, and pour over cream or rich milk ; let it boil up once and 
serve. 

POTATOES FRIED. 

Mrs. A. 

Pare potatoes ; cut in pieces one-half inch square, and as long 
as the potato ; keep them in cold water till wanted ; drop in boil- 
ing lard ; when nearly done, take them out with a skimmer and 
drain them; boil up the lard again, and drop them back, and 
fry till done ; this makes them puff up ; sprinkle with salt and 
serve very hot. 

SARATOGA FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut into thin slices; put them in cold water over night with 
a small piece alum to make them crisp ; rinse in cold water, and 
dry with crash towel ; fry light brown in boiling lard. 

PARSNEPS. 

Boil until tender in a little salted water ; then take up ; skim 

them, cut in strips, dip in beaten egg, and fry in melted, butter 

or hot lard. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and a half 
hours, according to the thickness of the squash ; to be eaten 
with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

FRIED SQUASHES. 

Mrs. F. M. Craigie. 

Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it with .salt ; let it 
stand a few moments ; then beat two eggs, and dip the squash 
into the egg ; then fry it brown in butter. 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wcibaah Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 71 



GREEN-CORN OYSTERS. 

To a pint of grated corn add two well beaten eggs; one-half 
cup of cream, and a half cup of flour, with one-half spoonful of 
baking powder stirred in it; season with pepper and salt, and 
fry in butter, dropping the batter in spoonsful ; serve a few at a 
time, very hot, as a relish with meats. 

GREEN-CORN PATTIES. 

M. 
Grate as much corn as will make one pint; one teacup flour, 
one-half teacup butter, one egg, pepper and salt to taste. If too 
thick, add a little milk, and fry in butter. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of green corn cut from the cob, and two-thirds of a 
pint of Lima beans; let them stew in just enough water to cover 
them until tender, then season with butter, pepper, salt and a 
little milk; simmer together a few moments and serve. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak over night one pint of beans in clear water; in the morn- 
ing parboil the beans, and at the same time, in another di§h, 
parboil a piece of salt pork, abdut three inches long and wide 
and thick; drain off" the water from the beans and pork; put both 
together in a deep pan with the pork at top; season with one 
tablespoon of molasses, and bake for several hours. Add a lit- 
tle water when they are put in to bake. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off" the green ends, and chop up the remainder of the 
stalks ; boil these until tender, and season with salt and pepper ; 
have ready some toasted bread in a deep dish; mix together 
equal parts of flour and butter to a cream ; add to this slowly, 
enough of the asparagus water or clear hot water, to make a 

Charles ITarmn, QeneraZ Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



72 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



sauce ; boil this up once ; put the asparagus on the toast, and 
pour over all the sauce. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Boil a cabbage, then put in a colander and drain it until per- 
fectly dry; then chop fine ; put in pepper, salt and a little cream, 
and put in an earthen baking pan, and into the oven. Bake 
one hour. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Put in an earthen baking dish, a layer of cracker crumbs and 
small bits of butter ; then a layer of tomatoes with a very little 
sugar sprinkled over them ; then another layer of cracker crumbs 
seasoned with butter, and a layer of tomatoes, until your dish is 
full, with the cracker crumbs at the top ; pour over all this a little 
water to moisten, and bake half an hour. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragie, 

Slice the egg plant, at least half an inch thick ; pare each piece 
carefully, and lay in salt and water, putting a plate upon the 
topmost, to keep it under the brine, and let them remain for an 
hour or more. Wipe each slice, dip in beaten egg, then in 
cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard until well done and nicely 
browned. 

MACARONI. 

Mrs. M. C. Gridley, Evanston. 
Cook macaroni in water until soft; then put in a deep dish, 
with alternate layers of grated crackers and cheese, a little salt; 
fill up the dish with milk and bake one hour. 

YANKEE BAKED BEANS. 

Mrs. Higgins. 
Boil the beans until they begin to crack, with a pound or two 
of salt fat pork; put the beans in the baking pan; score the pork 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPEg. 73 



across the top, and settle in the middle; add two tablespoons of 
sugar or molasses, and bake in a moderate oven two hours; they 
should be very moist when first put into the oven, or they will 
grow too dry in baking; do not forget the sweetening if you 
want Yankee baked beans. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 
Pare and slice, cover the bottom of a dish sprinkled with 
bread crumb or crackers; put in a layer of tomatoes and sprinkle 
crumbs over them; fill up the dish, with crumbs upon the top- 
season the whole with salt and pepper. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut a large Feejee tomato in half, flour the cut side, heat very 
hot, and put the floured side down ; when brown on one side, 
turn ; when done, pour over a tea cup of hot cream or rich milk. 

TOMATO HASH. 

Butter the dish well ; put in a layer of sliced tomatoes, a layer 
of cold meat, sliced thin ; then a layer of bread and butter, and 
so on until the dish is full, seasoning well with pepper and salt, 
and beaten eggs poured over the top. Bake brown. 






Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



74 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



S^^ddit^.j^B >m^4 9*l$#« 



«' And solid pudding against empty praise." 

PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One large cup of butter, one large cup of lard ; stir together 
with a knife to get all the lumps out ; sift one quart of flour, and 
mix into it with (ice water), to made it the consistency to roll 
out, saving flour enough from the quart for that purpose ; avoid 
kneading it ; use hands as little as possible. 

PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

To four cups of flour, one full cup of lard, or half lard and 
half of butter, rubbed well into the flour ; then add cold water 
enough to roll; add white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Higgins, 

One cup sweet cream, one egg, one teaspoon flour, two table- 
spoons sugar. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. F. M. Craigie. 

Roll out the under crust and cover the plate; then roll out 
the upper crust and spread it over the under crust, placing little 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



VAI.UABl-E RECIPES. 76 " 



wedges of paste between, to prevent them from sticking to- 
gether; after these are baked, take off the upper crust and pour 
in your cream ; replace the upper crust, and it is ready for the 
table. The cream is made by taking two eggs, one pint of milk 
and one tablespoon of flour; sweeten to taste and flavor with es- 
sence of lemon; boil them well together in a tin set in boiling 
water until like thick cream, stirring all the time. This makes 
two pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. S. Cornel!. 

Butter the size of an egg; one cup sugar and two eggs stirred 
together ; then add one-third cup milk, two cups flour, with two 
teaspoons baking powder, stirred in before sifting into the mix- 
ture ; bake in two pie tins for two pies. For the filling — one pint 
milk, taking out enough to wet one-half cup flour, and boil the 
rest ; two-thirds cup sugar and yolks of two eggs ; stir the filling 
mixture together, and boil three minutes ; when cold flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, and spread between the upper and lower 
crusts; when cut smothly apart. This makes two very delicious 
pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon cream- 
tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, five eggs beaten separately; 
grated rind of lemon. Cream — set in hot water one-half pint of 
milk; when scalding hot add one-half cup sugar, a little salt and 
one egg beaten together; stir until thick, and when cool, add 

e tablespoon vanilla; put between cakes. 



PHILADELPHIA BUTTER PIE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Cover a pie plate with crust, as for a custard pie; take a peice 
of butter the size of an egg, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one cup 
sweet cream, one tablespoon of flour; stir butter, flour and sugar 



Charles Harms, General Caterer, 956 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



76 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

together; then stir in the cream; pour in the plate; bake until 
brown. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

One small cup of dry maple sugar dissolved in a little water, 
two cups of strained squash stirred in the sugar ; add four eggs, 
two teaspoons of allspice, two cups of milk ; one teaspoonful of 
butter, and two of ginger, added last. This makes two pies. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. Rice. 

One pint of squash, one pint of milk, three eggs, one-half of 
a nutmeg, one teaspoon of cinnamon; one teaspoon of vanilla, 
two cups of sugar; put everything into the squash; the milk last. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. L. H. Davis. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, three-fourths teacup of brown 
sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons of molasses, one tablespoon 
of melted butter, one tablespoon of ginger, one teaspoon of cin- 
namon, two teacups of milk, a little salt. Makes two plate pies. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

E. E. Macey. 

. Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs with milk, seasoned 
to the taste ; bake it in ordinary crust ; put it in a brick ovei 
that the crust may not be heavy, and as soon as that is heat? 
remove it to a place in the oven of a more moderate heat, that 
the custard may bake slowly, and not curdle ; when done, beat 
the whites to a froth, add sugar and spread over the top, and 
return to the oven to brown slightly ; a small pinch of salt added 
to a custard, heightens the flavor ; a little soda in the crust pre- 
vents it from being heavy. Very nice. 



Charles Harms, Oeneral Caterer, 955 Wabanh Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 77 



WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. A. M. Chetlain. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, three eggs, two and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder; bake in three layers, in 
jelly cake tins; pafe and grate two large apples; add one cup 
of sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemon ; put this on the stove 
and let it steam until it forms a jelly; then take it off and stir in 
the yolk of one egg. When the cake and jelly are both cold, 

put them together. 

i 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. D. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups of flour, 
one teaspoon of baking powder; flavor to taste; bake as for jelly 
cake in layers, and spread between the layers raspberry jam. 



COCOANUT PIE. 

• Mrs. E. P. Thomas, Rockford, 111. 

Grate fresh cocoanut; to one cup of cocoanut, add one and 
one-half cup of sweet milk, the yolks of four eggs, a little salt, 
and sweeten to taste; one tablespoon of melted butter; beat the 
whole five or six minutes; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and put over the top just long enough to slightly brown 
before taking the pie from the oven. If you use desiccated 
cocoanut, soak it in the milk over night. 



COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. Taylor, Fort Wayne. 

One and one-half pints of milk, six eggs, one cocoanut, three 
cups sugar, one-half cup butter; mix sugar and butter, then the 
eggs, then the cocoanut, and lastly the milk. 



Charles Harma, General Caterer, (>o5 Wabash Ave., near22d. 



78 THE HOMK COOK BOOK. 



POLISH TARTLETS. 

Roll some good puff paste out thin, and cut it into two and a 
half inch squares; brush each square over with the whites of an 
egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the 
ttiiddle of each piece of paste ; slightly press the two pieces to- 
gether, brush them over with the egg ; sift over sugar ; bake in a 
quick oven for a quarter of an hour ; when they are done, make 
■a little hole in the middle, and fill with jam or jelly. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two lemons, 
two cups of sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of sponge cake ; 
beat it all together until smooth ; put into twelve patty pans, lined 
with puff paste, and bake until the crust is done. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

Anonymous. 

One cup of sugar, one lemon, one cup of raisins, one cup 
water; chop lemon and raisins fine, cook in the water three- 
quarters of an hour. a 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. A. M. Chetlain. 

T One tablespoon of corn starch stirred in a little cold water; 
add one cup of boiling water, let it come to a boil, then add 
seven tablespoons of sugar, yolks of four eggs, grated rind and 
juice of two lemons; bake with a bottom crust, then beat the 
white of four eggs and a little sugar, pour this over the top, 
and then brown. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. L. Bradley. 

One lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the juice; three eggs, 
one tablespoon of butter, three tablespoons of sugar, one cup of 
milk; beat the white of eggs and stir in after the rest are mixed. 

Charles Harms, Oeneral Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 23,d. 



VALUABLE RRCIPES. 79 



ACID PIE. 
M, A. Bingham, Elgin, III. 

One cup of soft bread or crackers, one cup of sugar, two cups 
of water, little lemon, one egg, one teaspoon of tartaric acid. 

LEMON PIE 

Mrs. H. L. Adams and others. 

One tablespoon of corn starch, boiled in a cup of water; one 
egg, one cup of sugar, juice and rind of one lemon; bake in a 
crust. This will fill one shallow plate. 

LEMON PIK 

Mrs. J. W. Preston. 

Six eggs, (less two whites,) two cups of white sugar, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoons of corn starch dissolved in the 
milk; two large lemons, juice and rind; bake slowly until set. 
Meringue for the top : White of two eggs beaten with six table- 
spoons of powdered sugar; bake to a light brown, after having 
spread over the surface of the pie. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. G. L. Dunlap. 

Yolks of six eggs, two cups of pulverized sugar, beaten well 
together, two and a half cups of milk, three lemons (only juice), 
a little salt, mix well, bake ; then take the whites of the eggs, 
add one-half cup of pulverized sugar, beaten well together, then 
spread over the top of pies and brown. This receipt will make 
two good sized pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

Miss Annie Slocum. 

Two lemons, five eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of water, 
two tablespoons corn starch ; grate the outside of the lemon 

Charles Hdrms^ General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



80 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

rinds into a dish, then cut in half and remove the seeds, scoop- 
ing the pulp and juice into the dish with a silver spoon; add the 
sugar and water, wetting the starch with some of the water; mix 
it in with the yolks and one white of an egg, (the eggs well 
beaten first,) pour into two tins lined with pastry, and bake; 
beat the remaining whites; gradually stir in ten tablespoons of 
pulverized sugar, and when the pies are done, spread the snow 
over them, and place in the oven until brown. 

LEMON PIE. 

M. 
For three pies, take the rind and juice of four lemons, the 
yolks of nine eggs, nearly one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of sweet milk ; beat the whites of six eggs with six 
ounces of sugar ; put on the top, after baking, and brown slight- 
ly. Very rich. 

LEMON PIES. 

Mrs. Beyer and others. 
For one pie, take one large lemon, the yolks of two eggs, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of cold water, one teaspoon of butter. 
Icing for the same : Whites of two eggs, two tablespoons of 
pulverized sugar; brown it nicely in the oven. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. Higgins. 
Six pounds of beef and six pounds of apples, chopped fine ; 
four pounds of sugar, two of citron, three of raisins, three of cur- 
rants, one of suet, two quarts of boiled cider, one-half cup of 
salt, two nutmegs, two tablespoons of ground cloves, two of all- 
spice, two of cinnamon ; when used, enough sweet cider should 
be added to make the mixture quite moist. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. J. M. Durand. 
Two pounds of raisins, one of currants, one of suet, two and 
one-half of sugar, one-quarter of citron, one-eighth of cinnamon, 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Ti^abash Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 81 



two chopped pippins, three lemons, two nutmegs ; wine, brandy 
and cloves to taste. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Pulnise. 

Two pounds of suet (chopped fine,) four pounds of mince 
meat, three cups of raisins, three cups of currants, two pieces 
of citron, twelve cups of fine chopped apples, five large teaspoons 
of cloves, four large teaspoons of ginger, four nutmegs, one 
quart of syrup, four quarts of cider, five teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of pepper, salt to taste, one cup of sugar, two 
lemons (juice, and rind grated;) stir all together; let come to a 
boil, then put in a jar; when making pies put a tablespoon of 
brandy to a pie. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. James Morgan. 

Boil beef until tender, (three pounds after it is boiled,) when 
cold, chop fine ; add three pounds of fine chopped suet, and mix 
with the beef; add a tablespoon of salt, six pounds of apples, 
four pounds of currants, six pounds of raisins, two pounds of 
citron; season to taste with powdered cinnamon, mace, cloves 
and nutmeg; add boiled cider, brandy and wine until quite soft; 
mix well and pack in stone jars, pour brandy over the top and 
cover tightly. This will make about five gallons. Add two 
pounds sugar. 

MINCE PIE. 

C. Kennicott. 

Three pints apples, one pint boiled beef, one-half pint of but- 
ter or beef drippings, one pint of molasses, one-half pint of water, 
one and a half teaspoons allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon salt, three-fourths teaspoon cloves, two and a half large 
spoons of vinegar, one-half of a nutmeg. Young housekeepers 
will find this recipe a great comfort. 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



82 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. G. F. DeForrest, Freeport, 111. 

One egg, three or four large crackers, or six or eight small 
ones, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
vinegar, one-half cup strong tea, one cup chopped raisins, a 
small piece of butter, spice and salt. 

SHAM MINCE PIE. 

Eliza Wormley. 

Ten crackers, made fine ; two cups of water, one of vinegar, 
one-half of butter, one of molasses, five eggs ; add raisins ; beat 
the eggs, butter and sugar together; spices and sugar to taste. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. J. R. Adams. 

Boil and chop three pounds of lean beef, two pounds of suet, 
four of good raisins, four of currants, one of citron, four of sugar, 
grated rind and juice of three lemons, and two sweet oranges, 
three large tablespoons of cinnamon, three grated nutmegs, two 
tablespoons of cloves, two of mace, one quart of cooking bran- 
dy, some wine, four tablespoons of salt ; pack it down tightly in 
a jar, and stir well before using. In making a pie, take nearly 
two-thirds of apples and more than one-third meat ; add enough 
cider to make very Juicy, and enough sugar to make very sweet. 

VINEGAR pip:. 

Ella Guild. 

One cup of sugar, one-half of vinegar, two teaspoons of flour, 
one of butter, one of cinnamon, two cups of water; boil all to- 
gether till thick, and bake as you would a custard pie. This is 
very nice. 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 83 

RICE PIE. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewing. 

One quart of milk, boiled; one small teacup of rice flour 
mixed in a little cold milk ; add to the boiling milk two table- 
spoons of butter; when cold, add five eggs well beaten; sweeten 
to taste ; flavor with vanilla, and bake. 



FRUIT PIE. 

Mrs. M. P. Carroll. 

Must be baked in a two quart tin basin; to give it the right 
shape the basin must be of nearly the same size top and bottom; 
first make a nice pie-crust; put a layer of it in the bottom, but 
not around the sides of the dish ; then a layer of chopped sour 
apples, two inches thick; then a layer of chopped raisins; sprinkle 
sugar over this, pieces of butter, and any spice you like — cloves 
and nutmeg are nice; another layer of crust and fruit, &c., until 
your dish is full; put a crust on top; bake slowly for two hours; 
when done, turn bottom upwards on a plate, and before putting, 
it on the table sprinkle fine sugar over it. It is quite as good 
when warmed again as when first baked. It takes one pound of 
raisins, ten or twelve good sized apples, two large cups of sugar, 
more if you like. 



TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Mrs. Perry Smith. 

Five eggs, butter the size of a large egg, two coffee cups of 
sugar, three tablespoons of thick cream; divide the sugar, beat 
half with the butter, and the other half with the yolks; add the 
whipped cream; whip the cream and lay it on a sieve, so that 
the thin part sifts through; put sponge cake in a mould, dipping 
the edges of each piece in the white of eggs, so they will stick 
together; put sponge cake over the top of the mould. 

Charles Harms, General Caterer, 955 Wahaah Ave., near 22d. 



84 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. Bradley and Mrs. D. S. Munger. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught; 

Take eggs six in number, when bought for a groat; 

The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen. 

Well pared, and well chopped, at least half a dozen ; 

Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust, 

And crumble the rest, as fine as the dust ; 

Six ounces of currants, from the stem you must sort, 

Lest you break out your teeth, and spoil all the sport; 

Six ounces of sugar, won't make it too sweet; 

Some salt, and some nutmeg, will make it complete ; 

Three hours let it boil, without any flutter ; 

But Adam won't like it, without wine and butter. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup chopped raisins, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk ; three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder ; spice to your taste ; four cups of flour ; mix and 
steam three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One cup suet, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one cup chopped 
raisins, three cups flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda; 
spice to taste; boil three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. * 

Two cups of chopped suet, two of raisins, two of molasses, 
four of flour, one of milk, three teaspoons of baking powder; 
boil three and one-half hours ; eat while hot. Sauce for same : 
One cup of sugar, one-half of butter, one egg, one tablespoon of 
wine or vinegar; beat fifteen minutes and heat to a scald. 

Charles JSdrma, General Caterer, 955 Wabash Ave., near 22d. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 85 



SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens. 

One teacup of suet chopped fine, one teacup of molasses, one 
teacup of sweet milk, three and a half teacups of flour, one 
cup fruit, one teaspoon soda; steam two hours. Sauce for 
same : One coffee cup pulverized sugar, one-half teacup butter; 
stir these to a cream; place the dish in a kettle of boiling water; 
stir in white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth ; one teaspoon of 
vanilla ; serve hot. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. A. Tolman. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup raisins, one cup suet, one cup 
sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, cinnamon, ten whole cloves. Sauce : One tablespoon 
of butter; boil in a pint of water, add flour, sugar and nutmeg. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Butterfield. 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one 
cnp of raisins, three and half cups of flour, one egg, one table- 
spoon of cloves, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one nutmeg, a 
little salt, one teaspoon of soda (dissolve in the milk;) steam 
three hours. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Taylor, Fort Wayne. 

One quart of flour, two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon 
of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder; make a soft dough of 
milk or water, roll out thin and spread with fruit; roll it up and 
boil three quarters of an hour. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, three cups of flour, one 
egg, onef%up raisins seeded, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 

> 't 

Duryed'8 "Satin Qloss Starch" Excels all Others. 

7 



86 THE- HOME COOK BOOK. 

cup of sweet milk, spices to suit the taste; steam three hours, 
and serve with liquid sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. E. Houghton. 

One cup suet, one cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, one cup currants, two and a half cups raisins, four cups 
flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon 
spice, one teaspoon soda ; boil three hours. 

PLUxM PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. S. Towle. 

One pint chopped suet, one pint sour apples, one pint raisins, 
one pint currants, one-half pint sugar, one-half pint sweet milk, 
one cup of citron ; beat eight eggs and mix with the above, and 
add sufficient flour to make it stick together; boil three hours in 
a cloth bag; serve with brandy sauce. 

ENGLISH FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. S. Bristol. 

One pound currants, one pound stoned raisins, one pound 
sugar, one pound suet, two pounds of grated or soaked bread, 
six eggs, one-half teaspoon saleratus, one teaspoon salt, and one 
grated nutmeg; crumb the soft part of the bread fine; soak the 
crust with boiling milk, or water will do; beat up the eggs and 
put all together, mixing thoroughly with the hands; take a square 
piece of cotton cloth and lay in a tin pan, put the pudding into 
the cloth and tie down close ; put into a pot full of boiling water, 
and boil five hours ; as the water boils away, keep adding more. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

M. Walker. 

One pound raisins, (stoned), one pound of currants, one 
pound suet very finely chopped, one pound flour, seven eggs, 

Duryed's "Satiyi Oloss Starch''^ Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 87 



two wine glasses brandy, three of sweet wine, sugar and spice 
to taste; (it may require a little sweet milk) tie it tightly in a vvell 
floured cloth, which should be first dipped in hot water, and boi! 
for four hours; or it may be boiled in a pudding form. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Hempstead. 
One pint raisins, one pint currants, one pint suet, one pint 
flour, one-half pint bread crumbs, one cup milk, five eggs, spi- 
ces to taste, a little candied orange and lemon ; mix all together 
and boil three hours. To be eaten with wine sauce. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. M. Kidder, Cranston, 111. 

One teacup of molasses, one teacup of butter, one teacup of 
sugar, two teacups of flour, one teacup sour milk, four eggs, one 
nutmeg, one teaspoon soda; mix butter and sugar to a cream, 
add eggs well beaten, then molasses, then nutmeg, then flour 
and sour milk; last, soda dissolved in a little warm water; steam 
three hours. This pudding can be made Saturday and heated 
over again for Sunday. Sauce for same : Half cup butter, one of 
sugar, worked thoroughly together to a cream; put a teacup and 
a half of water in sauce pan, and when it boils, thicken with 
flour to the consistency of cream; take from the fire and stir 
rapidly into it the butter and sugar; it will be like white foam; 
flavor to taste. This is an excellent sauce for all puddings. 

BIRD'S NESTS. 

Mrs. F. M. Craigie. 

Pare six or eight large apples, (Spitzenbergs or Greenings are 
best,) and remove the core by cutting from the end down into 
the middle, so as to leave the apple whole, except where the 
core has been removed ; place them as near together as they can 
stand with the open part upward, in a deep pie-dish ; next make 

Duryed'8 "Satin Qlosa Starch*^ Excels all Others. 



88 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

a thin batter, using one quart sweet milk, three eggs with suffi- 
cient flour, and pour it into the dish around the apples, also fill- 
ing the cavities in them ; bake them in a quick oven ; eat them 
with butter and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Packard. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons sugar, four tablespoons corn 
starch, two and a half tablespoons chocolate; scald the milk over 
boiling water ; dissolve the corn starch in a little scalded milk, 
and before it thickens add the chocolate dissolved in boiling 
Avater ; stir until sufficiently cooked. Use with cream, or sauce 
of butter and sugar, stirred to a cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

C. A. Tinkham. 

One quart sweet milk, ten tablespoons grated cocoanut, one 
cup powdered sugar, and whites of ten eggs; bake one hour, 
evenly and slowly ; to be served cold, with sugar and cream. 

' A DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Mrs. De Forrest. 

Three tablespoons of corn starch, the yolks of five eggs, six 
tablespoons of sugar; beat the eggs light, then add the sugar, 
and beat again till very light ; mix the corn starch with a little 
cold milk, mix all together, and stir into it one quart of milk, just 
as it is about to boil, having added a little salt; stir it until it has 
thickened well ; pour it into a dish for the table, and place it in 
the oven until it will bear icing ; place over the top a layer of 
canned peaches, and it improves it to mix the syrup of the 
peaches with the custard part ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
with two tablespoons white sugar to an egg, then put it into the 
oven till it is a light brown. 

Duryed'8 ^' Satin Qlosa Starch" Excels all Others, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 89 



QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. P. Wightman, Evanston. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread crumbs, five eggs, 
one teaspoon of corn starch, one large, or two small, lemons, 
one cup of common sugar, and one of pulverized sugar ; bring 
the milk to a scald, pour it over the bread crumbs and let it 
cool ; beat the yolks of the eggs and one: cup of common sugar 
together, and mix in the cornstarch also; just before putting in 
to bake, add the grated rind of the lemon, and bake twenty min- 
utes. Beat the whites of the eggs and one cup of pulverized 
sugar together, and add the lemon juice; when the pudding is 
done, put this on the top and set it in the oven again for a few 
minutes; to be eaten cold. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. L. H. Clement. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, the rind of one lemon 
grated, and butter the size of an egg; bake three-quarters of an .<i^ 
hour; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding a cup of 
powdered sugar and the juice of the lemon; spread this over the 
pudding when done and replace in the oven until slightly 
browned. 

I ROI.Y-POLY. 

M. 

Take one quart of flour; make good biscuist crust; roll out 
one-half inch thick and spread with any kind of fruit, fresh or 
preserved; fold so that the fruit will not run out; dip cloth into 
boiling water, and flour it and lay around the pudding loosely, 
leaving room to swell ; steam one or one and one-half hours ; 
serve with boiled sauce ; or lay in steamer without a cloth, and 
steam for one hour. 



Duryed's "Satin Oloss Starch^^ Excels all Others. 



90 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



RAILROAD PUDDING. 

E. Gage. 

Cook a dozen apples soft, then stir in about a pint of Graham 
flour; salt it; then eat with sugar, cream and butter; it is very 
simple, and good for people troubled with dyspepsia. 

RICE PUDDING. 

E. Gage. 

One quart of milk, with two tablespoons of rice ; let it come to 
a boil, then pour it over two tablespoons of sugar, one-half cup 
of raisins, a little lump of butter, flavor with ground cinnamon. 
Bake until thick. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler and others. 

Two quarts of milk, half a teacup of rice, a little less than a 
teacup of sugar, the same quantity of raisins, a teaspoon of cin- 
namon or allspice ; wash the rice, and put it with the rest of the 
ingredients into the milk; bake rather slowly from two to three 
hours ; stir two or three times the first hour of baking. If prop- 
erly done, this pudding is delicious. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mr. G. S. Whitaker. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, % 
two tablespoons oi melted butter, one teaspoon of soda, two tea- 
spoons of cream tartar, one egg. 



I 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

M. G. Rand. 



/ .' One teacup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, (or little 
/ less,) one cup sweet milk, one egg, a little nutmeg, one pint of 
flour, three teaspoons of baking powder; rub the butter, sugar 



DiJ^a^ 



8 *'Salin Gloss Starch " Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPE8. 91 



and egg together until light, add the nutmeg and milk, stir the 
baking powder into the flour while dry, and add just as the pud- 
ding is to be put in the oven; bake in a quart basin, very slowly; 
bring to the table hot, cut like cake, and serve with sauce made 
according to the following directions: Rub one tablespoono! 
flour in a little cold water until smooth, then turn it into one 
pint of boiling water, letting it cook five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly; add sugar, salt and nutmeg to suit the taste. 

1. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. C. Norton. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of a large egg, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon saleratus, (sweet milk is just as good if two 
teaspoons of baking powder is used instead of saleratus,) two 
eggs, two heaping cups of flour, a little salt. 



PUDDING IN HASTE. 

Mrs. F. E. Stearns. 

Three eggs, three cups of milk, and three cups of flour; bake 
in patty tins or cups, and serve with hot sauce. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

C,»K>«nnicott. 

One-half cup milk, five large spoons flour, three eggs, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, stirred smoothly together; stir this into one pint 
of boiling milk. 

A QUICK PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

One-half pint of milk, one-half pint of cream, three eggs 
beaten separately, little over one-half pint flour; season with 
lemon or vanilla. 



y 



Duryea'a **Sa(ln Oloas Starch^* Excels all Others. 



92 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

Three cups of raisins, one cup of chopped suet or butter, one 
pint of Indian meal, four sour apples, one quart of milk, one 
egg, and a little salt. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

Seven spoons of Indian meal, two spoons of butter, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one teacup molasses, ginger or cinnamon to your 
taste; pour into these a quart of milk while boiling hot; mix 
well and put in a buttered dish ; just as you put it in the oven, 
stir in a teacup of cold water, which will produce the same effect 
as eggs. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. De Forest. 

One quart of good butter milk or thick sour milk, two table- 
spoons of sweet cream, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, three 
handsful of flour, a little salt, Indian meal to make a rather thin 

batter. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. Benham. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoons ( heaping ) of Indian meal, 
one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon of ginger, one of cinnamon, 
one lemon peel, one teaspoon salt, two eggs, one cup molasses; 
bake three hours, not in too hot an oven ; boil the meal in half the 
quantity of milk, one cup raisins, one cup of suet, (not too full), 
add the remainder of milk before the eggs. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Thos. G. F. De Forest. 

One and a half coffee cups Graham flour, one-half coffee cup 
molasses, one-fourth coffee cup butter, one-half coffee cup sweet 

Duryea'a '^ Satin Gloss Starch'^ Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 93 



milk, one egg, one even teaspoon soda, one good half cup rais- 
ins, one good half cup currants ; salt and spice to taste ; steam 
two and a half or three hours ; serve with liquid sauce. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford. 

Eight tablespoons flour, four eggs, three pints sweet milk, 
one tablespoon melted butter, one-half nutmeg; bake in a pie 
tin ; serve with pudding sauce. 

DANDY JACK. 

Mrs. Benham. 

One pint milk, yolks of three eggs, two heaping tablespoons 
corn starch, one-half cup sugar ; flavor as you like ; for top, the 
whites of the eggs and a little sugar. ' 

PRETTY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles Bradbury. 

One tablespoon flour wet with one-half cup of cold milk, the 
yolks of three eggs beaten, one small cup of sugar ; mix these 
together ; put one quart of milk in a kettle, and set it in boiling 
water ; when the milk is at the boiling point, stir in the above 
mixture with vanilla or rose flavoring ; stir till it begins to thick- 
en, then take it off and let it cool a little ; pour it into a pudding 
dish or cups ; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
a teaspoon of fine white sugar, and drop it on the top of the cus- 
tard in rounds about as large as an egg ; put a small spoon of cur- 
rant or other tart jelly on the middle of each round ; serve cold. 

WEBSTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. O. L. Wheelock. 

One cup molasses, one cup milk, one cup suet, one-half cup 
brandy, or wine if you like, one teaspoon saleratus, one teaspoon 



Daryea's '^ Satin O/osa Starch" Excel i^ all Others. 



94 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, two cups cur- 
rants, one teaspoon salt ; mix as soft as pound cake, and steam it 
two hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Ada Sturtevant, Delaware, Wis. 

One-half cup of butter, or one cup of chopped suet, one-third 
cup molasses, one-half cup wine, one-half cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda, raisins and such spices as you 
prefer, about one-half spoonful of each ; dried cherries are nice, 
instead of raisins, or it is good without any fruit; steam two 
hours and serve hot with sauce. 

POUND CAKE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. L. Nichols. 

One cup of sugar, one-half of butter, rub to a cream, add one 
-cup of milk, three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, 
one teaspoon of soda in the milk, two teaspoons of cream tartar 
in the flour; fruit; bake or steam an hour. 

ROME PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. J. Woodworth. 

Eight good sized apples stewed and strained, the yolks of five 
eggs, one-quarter pound of butter, one lemon chopped fine, one- 
half pound sugar, one gill of cream ; put a thin paste on a plate, 
as for custard pie, and bake. 

ASTOR HOUSE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Two-thirds of a cup of rice, three pints of milk, one cup of 
sugar, a little salt, a piece of butter one-half the size of an egg ; 
let it come to a boil ; bake one and one-half hours in a slow 
oven. 



Duryea's '^ Satin Gloss Starch^* Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 95 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. L. Bristol. 
One pint of milk, four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten sep- 
arately, ten tablespoons of sifted flour, a little salt ; beat in the 
whites of the eggs the last thing before baking ; bake half an 
hour. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Booth. 

Seven eggs, two pint cups of milk, eight spoons of flour, 
(large iron spoon), a pinch of salt; beat the yellow of the eggs, 
then add the flour and one cup of milk to beat the lumps out; 
add the rest of the milk, and last of all, the whites of the eggs 
well beaten ; bake one hour ; this will do for ten persons. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, seven tablespoons of flour, (beeping) 
six eggs well beaten, (whites separated,) one tablespoon brandy; 
put the whites of the eggs in the last thing, and bake half an 
hour. To be eaten with brandy sauce. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. H. Davis. 

Two eggs and one tablespoon of sugar beaten together, one 
cup of milk, two cups flour, one tablespoon melted butter, half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar ; beat well, and pour 
the batter over either sliced apples or peaches, and steam one 
hour and a quarter; this will fill a three pint basin. Serve with 
hot sauce. 

AMHERST PUDDING. 

Mrs. F. M. Craigie. 

Three cups of flour, one of suet, one of milk, one of molasses, 
two of raisins ; salt and spice to your taste ; one teaspoon of sal- 
eratus ; boil it in a bag three hours. For sauce : One cup of su- 
gar, one-half of butter, one egg. 

Dxiryea^s ^^ Satin Oloss Starch" Excels all Others. 



96 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Mrs. F. M. Craigie. 

One dozen ears of corn, one pint of milk, two eggs, salt, two 
teaspoons of sugar, two of flour ; bake one hour in quick oven. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Freeman. 

Soak a pint of bread crumbs in milk for an hour, then squeeze 
with the hands to a pulp, and mix well with a gill of milk, then 
add three tablespoons of sugar, one-quarter pound of raisins, one- 
quarter pound of melted butter, and the yolks of four eggs; then 
beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and mix with the rest ; turn 
the mixture into a dish and bake; bake about forty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce, hot or cold, according to taste. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. M., Winnetka, 111. 

Put a pint of scalded milk to a pint of bread crumbs and add 
the yolks of four eggs well beaten, a teacup of sugar, butter 
the size of an egg, and the grated rind of a lemon ; bake, and 
then beat the whites of the eggs into a cup of powdered sugar 
and the juice of one lemon ; cover the pudding with it, and set 
it in the oven till it is a brownish yellow. 

BAKED CRACKER PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

Two quart?- of sweet milk, seven Boston butter crackers, 
rolled, three eggs, a little nutmeg, a little salt ; sweeten with su- 
gar to taste. Bake two hours and a half in a moderate oven. 

APPLE BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. O. L. Wheelock. 

Pare, core and chop one-half dozen sour apples ; dry bread in 
the oven until crisp, then roll ; butter a deep dish and place in 

Duryea's ^' Satin Gloss Starch ^^ Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 97 



it a layer of crumbs and apples alternately, with spice, and one- 
half cup of beef suet chopped fine j pour in one-half pint of sweet 
milk, and bake till nicely browned ; serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Guthrie. 

Five eggs, one pint milk, four tablespoons flour, four apples 
grated; bake one hour and a quarter; serve with sweetened cream 
or pudding sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Etta C. Springer. 

Five large sour apples chopped, one cup raisins, one cup 
sugar, one cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one-half cup butter, 
two eggs, little salt, butter and sugar worked together ; bake one 
hour; any sauce you please. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. B. J. Seward. 

One teacup molasses, one dessert spoon saleratus, stirred 
thoroughly in the molasses ; as much flour as can be stirred in 
with one quart of huckleberries. To be steamed four hours in a 
basin, or boiled in a pudding bag. Serve with liquid sauce. 
An excellent dessert. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One brick loaf, wet it with boiling milk, say one pint, four 
eggs, little salt, and one quart of berries. Boil one and a half 
hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One pound suet chopped fine, one pound wheat flour, one- 
half loaf of wheat bread, one pound figs chopped, one and a half 

Duryed's "Satin Oloss Starch'^ Excels all Others. 



98 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



cups molasses, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. 
To be eaten with sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

E. M. Walker. 

One-half pound figs, one-quarter pound greated bread, two 
and a half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces butter, two 
eggs, one teacup of milk. Chop the figs small and mix first 
with the butter, then all the other ingredients by degrees ; but- 
ter a mould, sprinkle with bread crumbs, cover it tight and boil 
for three hours. 

CURRANT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

Slice a baker's loaf, add butter, stew and sweeten three pints 
of currants, turn over the bread, and set away until cold ; serve 
without sauce, slice the bread thin. 



MUSKMELON PUDDING. 

Mrs. De Forest. 

One-half cup butter, one pint milk, two eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder, nearly one quart of flour. Steam <-wo hours, 
serve with a liquid sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. W. Cheever, Ottawa, 111. 

One cup milk, one cup sugar, two eggs, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one teaspoon soda, flour, dried fruit ; steam two hours. 
Sauce : To a pint of milk, add a lump of butter size of a small 
egg, let this come near to a boil ; save out from the pudding half 
teacup batter, thin it, and stir into the hot milk, stir all the time 
till it begins to thicken ; sweeten and flavor to the taste. 

Duryea'i '^ Satin Gfoss Starch^^ Excels all Others. 



( 

VALUABLE RECIPK8. 99 



SWEETMEATS PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. E. Browne. 

Make a nice pie crust, little or much, as you may desire, and 
roll it out in a long oval shape ; spread thickly with raspberry or 
currant jam, or with stewed fruit, cherries, or plums, then wet 
the edges of the dough with cold water, and roll it up, closing 
the edges tightly. Steam it for an hour or more, and serve in 
slices with a sauce of butter and sugar beaten well together, with 
nutmeg or other flavoring. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. S. Towle. 

One pint flour, one pint sweet milk, one quart cherries, four 
eggs, a little butter and salt, baking powder; steamed; serve 
with cream and sugar. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, yolks of four 
beaten eggs, one half cup of sugar; bake about half an hour; 
when cool, spread jelly over the pudding, beat the whites with 
a little sugar, and spread on top for frosting ; set back in the oven 
a few minutes after the whites have been spread on the pudding; 
excellent for Sunday dinners, as it may be eaten cold. 

BAKEWELL PUDDING. 

E. M. Walker. 

Cover a dish with thin puff paste, and put over it a layer of 
any kind of firm jelly, one-half inch thick; take the yolks of four 
eggs, and one white, one-(iuarter pound sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, twelve sweet, and eight bitter almonds, well 
pounded ; beat all together to a froth, pour over the jelly and 
bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. 



Duryed'a ^^ Satin Oloss Starch " Excels all Others. 



100 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. F. B. Cole. 

One quart milk,. three tablespoons of corn starch, yolks of four 
eggs, half cup sugar, and a little salt ; put part of the milk, salt 
and sugar on the stove and let it boil ; dissolve the corn starch 
in the rest of the milk ; stir into the milk, and while boiling add 
the yolks. Flavor with vanilla. 

Frosting — Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, half a 
cup of sugar ; flavor with lemon, spread it on the pudding, and 
put it into the oven to brown, saving a little of the frosting to 
moisten the top ; then put on grated cocoanut to give it the ap- 
pearance of snow flake. 

MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

One pint of stale bread crumbs, one quart of milk, the yolks 
of four eggs, butter the size of an egg, a small cup of sugar, salt, 
the grated rind of one lemon ; bake. When cool, spread the 
top with preserves or jelly ; beat the whites of the eggs with five 
tablespoons of pulverized sugar ; spread on the pudding and 
brown in a quick oven ; eat with cream. 

CORN STARCH LEMON PUDDING. 

Glen Cove Starch Co. 
Grate the rind of two lemons, add the juice and rind to six 
ounces of sugar and three ounces of the improved corn starch.  
Stir this well into some cold water, sufficient to make it smooth. 
Place three pints of milk on the fire ; when boiling add the 
above, stirring all the time until it thickens. Remove it from 
the fire, and add one ounce of butter and four eggs. Stir again 
while on the fire, taking care not to allow it to burn ; as soon as 
it becomes thick, remove it and fill out some small cups or 
forms, previously dipped in cold water. Place them aside; in 
one hour they will be fit to turn out. Cream and sugar or any 
sauce preferred. 

Duryea^a *' Satin Oloss Starch " Excels all Others. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 101 

Sauce. — One ounce of the improved corn starch in a little 
cold milk ; blend till smooth ; then pour a pint of boiling milk 
on it. Beat the white of four eggs in three ounces of sugar, one 
glass of brandy ; add this to the sauce, and allow it to remain on 
the fire a short time, stirring all the while. The sauce can be 
served hot or cold. May be flavored with anything to fancy. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. G. Hamilton. 

Peel and cut five sweet oranges into thin slices, taking out the 
seeds ; pour over them a coffee cup of white sugar ; let a pint of 
milk get boiling hot, by setting it in a pot of boiling water ; add 
the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, one tablespoon of corn 
starch, made smooth with a little cold milk ; stir all the time ; as 
soon as thickened, pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread over the 
top for frosting ; set it in the oven for a few minutes to harden ; 
eat cold or hot, (better cold,) for dinner or supper. Berries or 
peaches can be substituted for oranges. 



CREAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. Watson Thatcher. • 

One and one-half cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
one-half pint of boiling water; boil butter' and water together 
and stir in the flour while boiling ; let it cool and add five well 
beaten eggs; drop on tins and bake thirty minutes in a quick 
oven ; fill them with the following : One pint of milk, one cup 
of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of flour, two eggs ; beat the eggs, 
flour and sugar together, and stir them in the milk while it is 
boiling. When partially cool, flavor with lemon. These are 
favorites in bake shops. 



Enquire for Duryea'a '^Improved CornjStarch.^' It is pure. 



102 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

DESSERT PUFFS. 

Mrs. N. C. Gri^Iey, Evanston. 

One pint sweet milk, scant pint flour, three eggs, (whites and 
yolks beaten separately ;) bake in cups. To be eaten with liquid 
sauce. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

Five tablespoons of flour, five tablespoons of milk, five eggs 
stirred smooth ; turn on a pint of boiling milk, and bake twenty 
minutes. To be eaten with hard sauce. 

MOLLY PUFFS. 

Mrs. George B. Gushing. 

One cup Indian meal scalded ; when it cools, add two cups 
of rye meal, two eggs, one tablespoon of brown sugar, and a 
small half teaspoon of soda ; fry them, dropped from a spoon in 
boiling lard. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

H. M, Brewer. 

One pint sweet milk, five tablespoons flour, one tablespoon 
melted butter, six eggs, leaving out the whites of three ; bake in 
buttered cups, half filled, twenty minutes, in hot oven. 

For Sauce. — Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff" froth, and 
one coffee cup powdered sugar, and the juice of two oranges; 
turn the pudding from the cups on to a platter, and cover with 
the sauce, just before sending to the table. 

DUMPLING FOR ANY KIND OF POT-PIE. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

One quart of flour; mix in it three teaspoons of baking pow- 
der; rub in a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and mix 
very soft with sweet milk; roll about an inch thick; cut in 

Enquire for Duryea'a "Improved Corn Starch.'''' It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 103 



squares; put in steamer over the pot; cover tightly with cloth 
before you put cover on, keeping it air-tight; steam for half an 
hour. 

A SIMPLE DESSERT. 

A. S. Ewing. 

Put a teacup of tapioca into sufficient cold water ; boil until 
the lumps become almost transparent ; squeeze the juice of two 
lemons partially into the mixture, then slice them into it, sweet- 
en or not, then eat when cold, with cream and sugar. 

GERMAN PUDDING. 

A. S. Ewing. 

Beat six eggs separately until very light; add one pint milk to 
the yolks, six tablespoons flour, one-half spoon butter, one-half 
nutmeg and salt spoon salt ; stir in whites of eggs last. Bake 
half an hour. 

Sauce. — Six tablespoons sugar, one-half pound butter worked 
to a cream, one egg, one wineglass wine, one-half nutmeg ; put 
on the fire and let it come to a boil. 

AN EXCELLENT DESSERT. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffeecups of sugar, one 
pint of water and the whites of three eggs; break the peaches 
with and stir all the ingredients together; freeze the whole into 
a form; beat the eggs to a froth. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One and a half quarts milk, boiled, one-half cake of chocolate 
stirred in ^ilk, small cup of corn starch dissolved in little water, 
add too eggs, with one cup sugar, a little salt. Cream for sauce. 

  ,  — .— ,. , - -.. . — -, — -, — „.■%  , , ,, , ^ 

Enquire for Duryed'a ^'Improved Corn Starch.^' It is pure. 



104 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

Mrs. O. L. Parker. 

One pound sugar sifted, one of chocolate scraped very fine, 
mix together ; beat the white of one egg, and stir in your choco- 
late and sugar; continue to beat until stiff paste; sugar your pa- 
per, drop them on it and bake in a slow oven. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

One pint of flour, one-half of sugar, one-third of a ciip of milk, 
three eggs, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one of soda, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg rubbed into the flour. Roll out ; 
sift over lightly with flour ; double over and cut out with a wine 
glass. When fried, roll in pulverized sugar. 

• CHERRY PUDDING. 

H. N. Jenks. 

A pint of bread crusts or soft crackers, scalded in a quart of 
boiling milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, one teaspoon of 
salt, three eggs, one and a half teacups of sugar if eaten without 
sauce, and if with sauce a tablespoon of sugar ; a pinch of pul- 
verized cinnamon, and a quart of stoned cherries ; bake quickly. 

WIDOW BEDOT PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. J. Mcdrath. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup of raisins, one cup of 
sweet milk, spice to taste, flour to make a thick batter; steam 
one hour and serve with butter and sugar sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Place in a tin basin fruit of any kind, (raspberries, peaches 
and apples are the best,) put sugar over them, and a little water; 
if peaches are used put them in after paring them, whole ; have 

Enquire for Duryea'8 "Improved Corn Starch." It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 105 



ready a biscuit crust, made of one pint of flour, with a small 
piece of butter or lard, a little salt, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, and water or milk to make a dough; then roll out crust, 
and place over the top of your fruit in. the tin ; cover with another 
two quart basin, to give room for the crust to rise, and set it on 
the stove; as the fruit stews the crust will steam done. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

GIPSY PUDDING. 

L. Osgood. 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices; spread them with cur- 
rant jelly or preserves; put two pieces together like sandwiches, 
and lay them in a dish; make a soft custard, pour over while it 
is hot, let cool before serving. 

CRACKED WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

Cook cracked wheat enough for two meals ; stir in a few min- 
utes before taking up, raisins, dates, or any dried fruit; next 
day prepare a custard as usual, and stir thoroughly through the 
wheat, and bake just long enough to bake the custard; thus you 
have two desserts with but little trouble. Very palatable and 
nutritious. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. White. 
Put in a basin one-fourth pound of flour, the same of sugar, 
same of bread crumbs and chopped suet, the juice of one good 
sized lemon, and the peel grated; two eggs, and enough milk to 
make it the consistency of porridge; boil in a basin for one hour; 
serve with or without sauce. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Nellie. 

Line the bottom of a pudding dish with stale sponge cake, 
slice upon the cake six oranges; make a custard of one quart of 

Enquire for Duryea'a ^^Improved Com Starch." It h purfi. 



106 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

milk and five eggs, leaving out the whites of four ; beat the whites 
to a stifif froth, adding sugar, put on top of pudding, and put in 
the over until brown, 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

Mrs. K. 

One cup sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch of salt ; 
soaked for one hour ; six or eight apples, pared and cored, or 
quartered, and steamed tender, and put in the pudding dish; 
boil and stir the sago until clear, adding water to make it thin, 
and pour it over the apples; this is good hot with butter and 
sugar, or cold with cream and sugar. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Mrs. E. P. Thomas, Rockford, 111. 

One pint sweet milk, four eggs, five tablespoons flour, and a 
little salt. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. 

Boil a pint of rice in two quarts of Avater, with a teaspoon of 
salt, until quite soft, then put it in small cups, having them quite 
full; when perfectly cold, turn them into a dish, take the yolks 
of three eggs, one pint of milk, one teaspoon corn starch; flavor 
with lemon, and cook as you do soft custard ; turn over the rice 
half an hour previous to eating it. This is a nice dessert in hot 
weather. Sweet meats are a good accompaniment. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

Mrs. King. 

One-half tea cup of butter, the same of sugar ; beat to a froth ; 
put into a dish and set in a pan of hot water; add a tablespoon 
of hot water, or if preferred, a little vanilla; stir one way until it 
comes to a very light foam. 

Enquire for Duryea's "Improved Corn Starch.'' It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 107 



WINE PUDDING SAUCE. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of wine, 
one egg; beat butter, sugar and egg together; set it on the stove 
and heat, pour in the wine, add a little nutmeg; pour from one 
dish to another a few times, and send to the table. 

WINE SAUCE. 
M. A. T. 

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of butter; stir to a cream; 
beat two eggs very light, and stir all together; add one teacup of 
wine; mix and set on top of teakettle of boiling water. It must 
not be put on the stove, nor boil. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. B. P. Hutchinson. 
Two eggs well beaten, one cup pulverized sugar; when mixed 
pour over one cup of boiling milk, and stir rapidly; flavor as you 
please. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, yolks of three eggs; 
one teaspoon of corn starch or arrow root; stir the whole until 
very light; add sufficient boiling water to make the consistency 
of thick cream; wine or brandy to suit the taste. 

SAUCE FOR APPLE PUDDING. 

M. 
Boil good molasses with a little butter, and serve hot. 

HARD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, RICE, &c. 

M. 
Take one teacup sugar, one-half teacup butter; stir together 
until light; flavor with wine or essence of lemon; smooth the top 
with a knife, and grate nutmeg over it. 

Enquire for Daryea'a "Improved Com Starch V It is pure. 



108 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

COLD TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. F. Waite. 

One cup tapioca in five cups water, one cup sugar and one 
lemon. Wash the tapioca; add the water; put it in a tin pail, 
in a kettle of water ; let it boil two hours or more and until it is 
perfectly clear ; just before taking up, add a teaspoon of salt, one 
cup sugar and rind and juice of a lemon; stir thoroughly; place 
to cool ; eat with cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. Rice. 

Cover three tablespoons tapioca with water; stand over night; 
add one quart milk, a small piece of butter, a little salt and boil; 
beat the yolks of three eggs with a cup of sugar and boil the 
whole to a very thick custard; flavor with vanilla; when cold 
cover with whites of egg beaten. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. Frances M. Thatcher. 

Soak one cup of tapioca in milk; add one quart of milk, one 
cup of white sugar, two eggs, butter the size of an egg, nutmeg 
and raisins to suit taste; steam two hours. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water over night; put the 
tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil half hour; beat the 
yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar; add three tablespoons of 
prepared cocoanut; stir in and boil ten minutes longer; pour 
into a pudding dish ; beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff 
froth, stir in three tablespoons of sugar; put this over the top 
and sprinkle cocoanut over the top and brown for five minutes. 

Enquirr for Duryea's ^'Improved Com Starch." It is pure. 



VALUABLE RKCIPES. 109 



APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. Duffield. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night in six cups of water; 
next morning add about six large tart apples, chopped very fine, 
(or more, according to the size,) then one cup of white sugar; 
bake slowly about four hours; to be eaten either warm or cold, 
with cream. Very delicate for invalids. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. 

One-half package Coxe's gelatine ; pour over it a cup of cold 
water and add one and one-half cup of sugar; when soft, add 
one cup boiling water, juice of one lemon and the whites of four 
well beaten eggj; beat all together until very light; put in glass 
dish and pour over it custard made as follows : — one pint milk, 
yolks four eggs and grated rind of one lemon ; boil. Splendid. 



OTJSTAI^T>«, CIMilAMS, etc. 



MRS. GRAVE'S CUSTARDS. 

Six eggs, one pint milk, one and a half cups sugar, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla; beat sugar and eggs together, and stir into the 
hot milk ; when done, strain ; cook very slowly, not to boil ; pour 
into cups. 

Another Way. — Instead of boiling, put the mixture into 
cups ; set them in a dripping pan half full of water and bake 
in the oven till done. 



Enquire for Duriied'i ^'Improved Corn Starch.^' It is pure. 



110 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford. 

To half a cup of rice, add one quart of milk, and a little salt; 
steam one hour, or until quite soft; beat the yolks of four eggs 
with four tablespoons of white sugar ; add this just before taking 
off the rice ; stir in thoroughly, but do not let it boil any more ; 
flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
with sugar ; after putting the mixture into the pudding dish in 
which you serve it, put the whites over it and let it slightly 
brown in the oven. 

RICH CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Morgan, Rockford, 111. 

One quart of cream, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces of pow- 
dered white sugar, a small pinch of salt, two tablespoons of 
brandy, one tablespoon of peach water, half a tablespoon of 
lemon brandy, an ounce of blanched almonds pounded to a 
paste ; mix the cream with the sugar, and the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten ; scald them together in a tin pail in boiling water, 
stirring all the time until sufficiently thick ; when cool, add the 
other ingredients, and pour into custard cups. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. R. M. Pickering. 

One quart of milk, eight eggs, one-half pound of sugar; beat 
to a good froth the eggs and sugar. Put the milk in a tin pail 
and set it in boiling water ; pour in the eggs and sugar and stir 
until it thickens. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Three ounces Baker's chocolate, three pints milk, four table- 
spoons white sugar, two tablespoons brown sugar; prepare a 
soft custard of the milk and the yolks of five eggs and the white 

Enquire for Duryed's ^^ Improved Corn Starch " It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. Ill 

of one ; dissolve the chocolate in a cup of warm milk and heat it 
to boiling point ; when cool, sweeten it with brown sugar and 
flavor with the extract of vanilla ; pour the whole into a dish and 
cover with the whites of the five eggs beaten stiff, with a little 
sugar; brown slighty and serve cold. 

SAGO CUSTARD. 

C. D. Adams. 

Three tablespoons of sago boiled in a little water till clear; 
add one quart of milk, let it come to a boil, then add five or six 
well beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Put the vessel containing 
the custard in a kettle of boiling water ; stir it briskly, till it 
thickens a little ; flavor with vanilla after it is partly cool. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Pare, core and quarter one dozen tart ajjples, strew into it the 
grated rind of one lemon; stew until tender in very little water; 
then mash smooth with back of a spoon. To one and a half 
pints of strained apple add one and a quarter pounds sugar; 
leave it until cold ; beat six eggs light and stir alternately into 
one quart milk with the apples ; put into cups or deep dish and 
bake twenty minutes ; to be eaten cold. 

APPLE CUSTARDS. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford. 

Take six tart apples, pare and quarter them, put into a baking 
dish with one cup water ; cook until tender, but not to pieces, 
then turn them into a pudding dish and sprinkle sugar over to 
cover them ; beat eight eggs with sugar and mix with them three 
pints of milk, a little nutmeg ; turn it over the apples, and bake 
twenty-five minutes. 



Enquire for Duryed's "Improvid Com Starch." It is pure. 



112 THE HOME COOK BOOK, 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Perry Smith. 

One quart of milk, one cup of white sugar, one cup of brown 
sugar, two tablespoons of corn starch, pinch of salt and vanilla. 
Place the milk with the white sugar and salt in a farina kettle, 
over the fire ; if you have not such a kettle, a tin pail set in a 
pot of hot water will answer the purpose ; beat the eggs, with- 
out separating, in a large bowl, and wet the corn starch with a 
little cold milk ; put the brown sugar in a tin pan and set over 
the fire ; stir until it is thoroughly scorched, but not burned ; 
then turn the scalding milk on the eggs; put the mixture in 
the kettle again over the fire; stir in the corn starch until it 
thickens; lastly, stir in the scorched sugar and remove from the 
fire ; then add a generous amount of vanilla. The scorched su- 
gar falls into the custard in strings, but these will dissolve with 
vigorous stirring, after removal from the fire. Turn into cus- 
tard glasses and serve cold. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Stew the apples; add a little grated lemon peel and juice; line 
the sides and bottom of the dish about two inches thick. Make 
a boiled custard with one pint of milk and two eggs ; when it is 
cool, pour it into the center of the dish. Beat the whites of the 
eggs and spread it over the top ; sprinkle sugar over it, and bake 
a few minutes in the oven. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

E. E. Macey. 
One-half package of gelatine, one pint of water ; soak twenty 
minutes ; add two cups of sugar, set it on the stove to come to a 
boil ; when nearly cold, add the whites of four eggs beaten stiff, 
the juice and rind of two lemons, and pour into a mold. Make 
a custard of the yolks of four eggs, a quart of milk, and a small 
tablespoon of corn starch, sweetened to taste. 

Enquire for Duryed's ^'Improved Com Starch." It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 113 



APPLE FLOAT. 

Mrs. O. L. Parker. 

To one quart of apples, partially stewed and well mashed, put 
the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and four heaping table- 
spoons of loaf sugar J beat them together for fifteen minutes, and 
eat with rich milk and nutmeg. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

Mrs. M. E. Kedzie, Evanston. 

One quart of water, the juice and pulp of two lemons, one 
coffee cup of sugar ; when boiling add to it four tablespoons of 
corn starch mixed in water j let it boil, stirring it fifteen min- 
utes ; when cool, pour it over four or five sliced oranges ; over 
the top spread the beaten whites of three eggs, sweetened, and 
. a few drops, of vanilla. Eaten with cream. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs. J. P. Booker. 

One pint milk and one-half box gelatine, heated together ; 
yolks of three eggs, and five tablespoons sugar beaten together 
added to the above ; take off as soon as it thickens, then stir in 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth j flavor with va- 
nilla ; to be served with cream and sugar. 



SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Boil one ounce of gelatine in one pint of new milk until dis- 
solved, add four eggs well beaten and half a pound of sugar j 
stir it over the fire until the eggs thicken, take it off the fire and 
add a full wine-glass of peach water, and when cool pour it into 
moulds ; serve with cream. 



Enquire for Duryea^s ^^/nrproved Com Starch^ It is pure. 



114 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Mrs. R. Harris. 

Nearly a box of gelatine, soaked over night in a cup of wine ; 
melt it over the fire, with the sugar ; when it is warm, put in a 
quart of cream or new milk and strain it into moulds. If the 
wine is too hot, it will curdle the milk. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Mrs. Spruance. 

Soak one box of Cox's English gelatine (in cold water suffi- 
cient to cover) one hour; one quart of milk boiled; scrape two 
ounces of French chocolate, mix with eight spoons of white 
sugar; moisten this with three spoons of the boiling milk; then 
stir in the gelatine and the yolks of ten well beaten eggs ; stir 
three minutes briskly ; take off, strain and add two teaspoons of 
vanilla ; strain and put in moulds to cool. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Mrs. King. 

Half a cake of chocolate dissolved in a little hot water ; put in 
a cup of milk and when it boils have five eggs well beaten and 
mixed with two cups of milk ; pour the hot chocolate into the 
eggs and milk ; stir well and boil all together for a few minutes ; 
sweeten to your taste. To be eaten cold. 



APPLE CREAM. 

Mrs. Mann. 

One cup thick cream, one cup sugar, beat till very smooth ; 
then beat the whites of two eggs, and add ; stew apples in water 
till soft ; take them from the water with a fork ; steam them if 
you prefer. Pour the cream over the apples when cold. 

Enquire for Duryea's "Improved Corn Starch." It is pure. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. ^^ffliPIW 115 




CARAMEL CREAM. 

Mrs. Anna S. Ogden. 

Three pounds sugar browned in the oven to a liquid, but not 
burned; sixteen eggs, seven quarts of milk, and one of cream; 
the milk should be boiled and be frozen like ordinary ice cream. 



^^-^ 



BAVARIAN (REAM. 

Mrs. Chas. Duffield. 



One ipint of milk, yolks of four eggs, one-fourth pound of 
sugar, one-half ounce of gelatine; put all over the fire, and stir 
until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain through a fine sieve^ 
and when cool, add one pint of cold cream; flavor with vanilla. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

E. V. Case, Elmhurst. 

Take one quart of cream, one pint of milk sweetened very 
sweet, and highly seasoned with sherry wine and vanilla ; beat it 
with a whip dasher, and remove the froth as it rises until it is all 
converted into froth. Have ready one box of Cox's sparkling 
gelatine, dissolved in a little warm water; set your frothed cream 
into a tub of ice; pour the gelatine into it, and stir constantly 
until it thickens, then pour into moulds, and set in a cool place. 

ICE creIm. 

M. 

One pint milk, yolks of two eggs, six ounces sugar, one table- 
spoon corn starch; scald until it thickens; when cool, add one 
pint whipped creajn, and the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff; 
sweeten, flavor and freeze. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. A. P. Iglehart. 

Have ready two quarts of rich cream; take out three pints 
and stir into the pint left one pound of white sugar; flavor with 

Enquire for Duryea^s ^^Improved Corn Starch." It is pure. 



116 A^^^^ THE HOME COOK BOOK. 




C> _ . ... 

lemon H;^ vanilla ; after mixing this well add it to the three pints 

and freeze it. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

Scald one quart of mijk-with one sheet of Isinglass, (broken,) 
and a vanilla bean; when)cool, strain, mix with onafpipt of 
cream whipped to a fraft«f^weeten to taste. w "^ 



TAPIOCA MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Spruance. 

One teacup of tapioca soaked in one and a half pints of warm 
water three hours; peel and core eight tart apples; fill apples 
with sugar, grating a little nutmeg or moistening with wine ; one 
hour before needed, pour the tapioca over the apples and bake, 
serving in the dish baked in; the addition of the whites of four 
well beaten eggs spread over the top and browned slightly, im- 
proves it. 

SPANISH MERINGUES. 

M. 

• 

Take the whites of eight eggs ; beat until stiff; add "One-half 
pound of powdered' sugar and a pinch of salt, and beat well; 
grease sbme paper and lay on a board; drop the meringues on 
it, and bake in a slow oven ; when done, remove with a knife 
and place the two together ; sprinkle with powdered sugar be- 
fore baking. 

SWISS MERINGUES. 

M. 

Use the same mixture as above, formed* in a ring, using 
whipped cream with sugar and vanilla to the taste, for the 
centre. 

MELANGE. 

Mrs. W. Guthiie. 
Line a deep pie dish with pie crust, and spread on a thin lay- 
er of tart apple sauce, then a layer of buttered bread ; on this 

Enquire for Duryea's '^Improved Com Starch." It is pure. 



VALUABLE R£CIP£8. 117 



anoflier layer of apple. Bake until the crust is done; when 
done, spread on the whites of two eggs beaten t® a froth and 
sweetened ; brown slightly. Serve with pudding sauce of butter 
and sugar stirred to a cream, seasoned with lemon. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Two ounces of gelatine ; pour' over one pint of cold water ; 
let it stand fifteen minutes; add half a pint of boiling water, 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, and the juice of four 
lemons. When the gelatine is cold, before it begins to get firm, 
add the well beaten whites of three eggs ; beat the whole fifteen 
minutes, until the mixture is quite white, and begins to thicken; 
then put in a mould first wet in cold water. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Mrs. B. 

Two ounces isinglass, one and three-fourths pints water, three- 
fourths pound powdered sugar, juice of five lemons and rind of 
one, whites of three eggs ; dissolve isinglass in water, strain, add 
sugar, lemon rind and juice ; boil the whole ten or fifteen min- 
utes; strain again; let it stand until it is cold and begins to 
stiffen; beat the whites of the eggs, add them to the mixture; 
beat until quite white, then mould and let it stand. 

SNOW SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. J. Louis Harris, Keokuk, Iowa. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; dissolve one-half 
box of gelatine in a little more than a pmt of hot water, two 
cups of sugar, and the juice of two lemons; when this is dis- 
solved and cooled, stir into it the eggs you have beaten, beat the 
whole together until it is white and stiff; mould and pour around 
it soft custard. 



^'Richards' Queen Baking Powder ^^ makes Biscuit very light. 
9 



118 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SNOW AND ICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. R. Cornell, Hyde Park. 

In one pint of boiling water dissolve one-third of a package 
of Cox's gelatine, three-fourths of a teacup of sugar, juice of two 
lemons; when nearly formed into jelly, stir in lightly the whites 
of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; then place in a mould 
and serve with a boiled custard, poured over the snow and ice 
mould of jelly. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

* 

Mrs. McDowell. 

One-half box of Cox's gelatine ; pour over it one pint of boil- 
ing water; then add two cups of sugar and the juice of two lem- 
ons; when cool, add the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and 
pour into a mould to harden. 

For Sauce. — The yolks of three eggs and one pint of milk 
sweetened to taste ; place in a vessel of hot water to boil, stir- 
ring constantly ; when nearly cold, add a little salt, and flavor 
with vanilla. 

SNOW PUDDING." 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

Pour one pint of boiling water to half a box of gelatine, two 
cups sugar, juice of two lemons ; when nearly cold, strain it and 
beat with whites of three eggs half an hour until perfectly light 
artd thick. Put it in a glass dish, then make soft custard with 
the yolks of the three eggs and one pint of milk ; flavor with 
vanilla and pour over it. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens. 

One-half box of Cox's gelatine, dissolve in one pint of boiling 
hot water; when nearly cool, ^dd one cup sugar, juice of one 
lemon; strain; add whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
beat all thoroughly and quickly pouf kito mould. Serve cold 
with soft custard made of the yolks of the three eggs, and one- 

The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 119 



half teaspoon of corn starch stirred in one pint of boiling milk ; 
sweeten to taste. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. H. Smith, Kenwood. 

One-third box Cox's gelatine, soaked ten minutes in one-half 
pint cold water, and afterwards add one-half pint boiling water, 
juice of two good sized fresh lemons, one and a half cups pow- 
dered sugar; allow this to stand over a slow fire only a few mo- 
ments; then strain it through a flannel bag into your pudding 
dish and set away to cool ; then make a smooth custard of the 
yolks of five eggs with one and a half tablespoons corn starch ; 
sweeten to taste and cook it a few minutes in a tin pail, set in a 
kettle of boiling water, stirring all the while; when sufficiently 
cooked and partially cooled, flavor with vanilla extract, and 
when entirely cold, pour this custard over the jelly already in 
the dish, and beat to a stiff froth the whites of the five eggs, 
adding a little sugar and pour over the top of the custard, and it 
is then ready to serve. This is considered an excellent and del- 
icate dessert, if properly and carefully made. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

M. 

One pint cream and whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth 
separately; one-fourth ounce of gelatine soaked in one gill of 
milk; set on back of stove to dissolve. Mix cream and eggs, 
sweeten and flavor; stir in gelatine; when cool, place on sponge 
cake and set away to get firm; or you can use two eggs (whites) 
and one-half ounce gelatine. Good. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Put a layer of bread, cut in thin slices and buttered on both 
sides, in the bottom of your pudding dish, and on this a layer of 
apples cut as for a pie, seasoning with sugar and a dust of cinna- 

Using ^'Hicharda' Queen ;" it makes Biscuit delicate and light. 



120 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



mon, alternating the bread and apples until the dish is filled, 
having a layer of bread on top. Bake one-half hour. If the 
bread is in danger of becoming too brown and hard, cover with 
a plate until the apples are cooked. To be eaten with cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. W. Butterfield. 

Take one-third of a box of gelatine, soak it ten minutes in 
enough cold water to cover it, then add a little hot water to dis- 
solve it; whip up one pint of cream, very light, with a wire spoon 
or whip churn; mix it thoroughly with the gelatine; add two 
tablespoons of sugar and flour with vanilla. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

Two quarts cream, sweeten with white sugar to taste; put 
cream in pan of ice and whip until light; one package of gelatine 
to one and a half quarts water ; add to the whipped cream while 
boiling hot, stirring it all the time; dish out with a slice of sponge 
cake. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Whip one quart rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain well on 
a nice seive. To one scant pint of milk add six eggs beaten 
very light ; make very sweet, flavor high with vanilla. Cook 
over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak one full ounce 
Cox's gelatine in a very little water, and warm over hot water. 
When the custard is very cold, beat in lightly the gelatine and 
the whipped cream. Line the bottom, of your mould with but- 
tered paper, the sides with sponge cake or lady-fingers fastened 
together with the white of an egg. Fill with the cream, put in a 
odd place or in summer on ice. To turn out, dip the mould 
fo • a moment in hot water. In draining the whip cream, all 
"hat drips through can be re-whipped. 

^^ 

All of our leading Hotels of Chicago are now using 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 121 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

S. Osgood. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, put in a pint of sweet milk and 
let it cool; beat four eggs and stir in, but do not let the milk boil ; 
one cup of sugar, stir in with the yolks; when cool, add one quart 
of cream and the whites of the four eggs, well beaten. Stir all 
together, flavor the cream with vanilla before mixing. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit.- 

Take one quart of thin cream, sweeten and flavor; whip the 
cream until all in froth; then take half box of gelatine, put in as 
little cold water as possible to soak, and set on the stove to melt; 
have the gelatine cool before putting into the cream; have a 
dish already lined with cake or lady-fingers, pour the cream into 
it and set on ice until ready for use. 

CHARLOTTE. 

Mrs. VV. W. Kimball. 

One quart of rich cream, three tablespoons of Madeira wine, 
whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, one teacup of powdered 
sugar, half a box of gelatine dissolved in half a cup of sweet milk; 
flavor with vanilla; beat the cream and wine together; add the 
eggs, then the sugar, and last, the gelatine. 

RICE CHARLOTTE. 

E. M. Walker. 

Blanch one-fourth pound of rice, and boil in one quart of milk, 
with a little sugar and vanilla; when soft, let it cool, and then 
mix it with one pint of whipped cream; oil a mould and fill with 
a layer of rice and preserves, or marmalade, alternately; let it 
stand until stiff, and then turn it out. 

"Bichards' Queen Baking Bowder;^^ it makes Biscuit very Ugh . 



122 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT BLANC-MANGE. 

Mrs. T. V. Wadskier. 

Stew nice fresh fruit, (whatever you may please, cherries and 
raspberries being the best,) strain off the juice, and sweeten to 
taste; place it over the fire in jl double kettle until it boils; while 
boiling, stir in corn starch wet with a little cold water, allowing 
two tablespoons of starch for each pint of juice; continue stirring 
until sufficiently cooked, then pour into moulds wet in cold water; 
set them away to cool. This, eaten with cream and sugar, makes 
a delightful dessert. 

CHOCOLATE MANGE. 

S. D. F. 

One box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold water, 
three pints of milk; put over to boil, with one cup of French 
chocolate; when the milk is just scalded, pour in the gelatine; 
sweeten to taste; boil five minutes, then take from the fire, flavor 
with vanilla, pour into moulds. When cold, serve with powder- 
ed sugar and cream. 

MOUNT BLANC. 

Mrs. T. B. Orr. 

One-third box of gelatine, grated rind of two lemons, two cups 
of sugar, one pint boiling water ; before the mixture gets stiff, 
stir in the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Eat with 
custard, boiled, made with yolks of eggs and one pint of boiling 
milk. Sweeten to taste, flavor with vanilla. Excellent. 

GELATINE BLANC MANGE. 

C. D. Adams. 

Soak one-half box Cox's gelatine in one and a half pints of 
milk for an hour ; put it over a kettle of b'biling water, and when 
it comes to the boil, add the beaten yolks of three eggs and four 
tablespoons of sugar, stirring it briskly for a few moments ; when 
partly cool, add the whites of the eggs, beaten very light; flavor 
with vanilla; cool in a mould and serve with sugar andcream. 

You can only realize the excellence of the above receipts by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 123 



leaS^^ A3S^ T^ABTi 



Bread is the staff of life. 

— Swift. 

The bread she daily offers me, 
Is that perpetual feast of sweets 
Where no crude surfeit reigns. 

— Anon. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BREAD. 

In the composition of good bread, there are three important 
requisites: Good flour, good yeast, and strength to knead it well. 
Flour should be white and dry, crumbling easily again after it is 
pressed in the hand. 

A very good method of ascertaining the quality of yeast, will 
be to add a little flour to a very small quantity, setting it in a 
warm place. If in the course of ten or fifteen minutes it rises, 
it will do to use. 

When you make bread, first set the sponge with warm milk or 
water, keeping it in a warm place until quite light. Then 
mould this sponge, by adding flour into one large loaf, kneading 
it well. Set this to rise again, and then when sufficiently light, 

Vising Richards' Queen Baking Powder and Extracts of Fruit. 



124 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



mould into smaller loaves; let it rise again, and then bake. Care 
should be taken not to get the dough too-stiff with flour ; it should 
be as soft as it can be to knead well. 

To make bread or biscuits a nice color, wet the dough over 
top with water just before putting in the oven. Flour should 
always be sifted. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesebrough. 

Put two tablespoons of hops in a muslin bag and boil them in 
three quarts of water for a few minutes ; have ready a quart of 
hot mashed potatoes ; put in one cup of flour, one tablespoon of 
sugar, one of salt ; pour over the mixture the boiling hop >\'ater, 
strain through a colander, put a pint or less of fresh baker's 
yeast or two cakes of yeast in while it is warm, and set it in a 
warm place to rise. This yeast will keep three or four weeks, if 
set in a cool place. In making it from tirne to time, use a bowl 
of the same to raise the fresh with. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. M. L., Evanston. 

Six good potatoes grated raw, a little hop tea, one quart boil- 
ing water, three-fourths cup of brown sugar, one-half teaspoon 
salt; when cool, add yeast to rise; keep covered and in a cool 
place. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 
Boil, steam and mash a few potatoes; pour slowly on some 
boiling water, in which a bag of hops has been boiled; stir 
immediately in sifted flour enough to thicken; when lukewarm, 
add compressed yeast (dissolved,) or raise with potato or baker's 
yeast. 

GOOD YEAST. 

Mrs. N, P. Iglehart. 

On one morning boil two ounces of best hops in four quarts of 
well water half an hour, strain it and let the liquor cool to the- 

No Biscuits so delicate as that made with "Hichards^ Queen, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 125 



consistency of milk ; then put in a small handful of salt, and half 
pound of brown sugar; beat up one pound of good flour with 
some of the liquor; then mix all well together, and let it stand 
till next day; when strained, bottle it, (it must be frequently stir- 
ed while it is making and kept near the fire.) Before using it, 
shake the bottle well; it 'will keep in a cool place two months. 
Use the same quantity for bread as other yeast. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. W. C. Harris. 

Boil in separate pans, one-half cup of hops, and two potatoes ; 
strain both liquids boiling hot on a large cup of flour, one spoon 
of salt, half cup sugar, a cup of yeast. Pour it into a jug and 
set it in a cool place. 

YEAST. 

* Mrs. Freeman. 

Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water twenty min- 
utes, strain through a sieve and add one coffee cup of sugar to 
the hop water. When so cool as not to scald, stir in one coffee 
cup of flour. Let this mixture stand in a warm place three days, 
stirring frequently. The third day boil three potatoes, press 
them through the colander and stir gradually into the hop water, 
adding a handful of salt ; let it stand till next morning, then put 
into a jug. Shake well every time before using. Use a teacup 
full for six loaves. To your sponge next morning add three 
good sized potatoes pressed through the colander, with the water 
they are boiled in. 

GOOD YEAST. 

S. S. Peirce. 

Eight potatoes boiled and mashed fine, four tablespoons of 
flour put in with the potatoes, two tablespoons of salt, two of 
sugar; pour on one quart of boiling water; stir carefully while 
pouring, so as to dissolve, and add one quart of cold water; 

• 

We advise the use of '^Richards' Queen*^ for making light biscuit. 



126 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

then strain, and when cold, add one cup of yeast and set in a 
warm place to rise ; as soon as it is light, put it in a jug or bot- 
tle and cork tight. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. John C. Corthell. 

Six large raw potatoes grated into a stone jar, one handful of 
dry hops in two quarts of water ; boil a few minutes and add 
one tablespoon of salt, one teacup of sugar ; strain the liquor on 
the potatoes while boiling hot; stir six yeast cakes in cold water 
until dissolved, then add to the yeast when cool ; let it stand two 
■days before using. Use one-half a cup to four loaves of bread. 

YEAST THAT WILL NOT SOUR. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

Boil two ounces of hops in two quarts of water ; put one cup 
of brown sugar in a jar ; boil and strain tlje hops and pour into 
the jar. Add one cup of flour stirred smooth ; let it stand in a 
Avarm kitchen till it ferments. Add six potatoes boiled and 
mashed, and one cup of salt. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. Anna Marble.. 
Two quarts of wheat bran, one of Indian bran, two gallons of 
boiling water ; simmer an hour or so ; put in a handful of hops. 
As soon as the water boils, add one tea cup of molasses and one 
tablespoon of ground ginger. When cold, put in a teacup of 
yeast and cork tightly. Keep cool. 

YEAST. 

From the Prairie Farmer. 

A handful small of fragrant hops deposit in a kettle ; 

Then add a pint of Adam's ale, and boil them till they settle. 

Then if you wish to brew good yeast, lively and sweet, you'd 

oughter 
Take four potatoes, medium sized, and wash them well with water ; 
• , 

We advise the use of ^^ Richards' Queen Baking Powder," 



VALUABLE RECIPK8. 127 



Divest them of their jackets next, — in common parlance, skin 'em, 
And faithfully dig out the eyes, there's dirt imbedded in 'em. 
Then make assurance doubly sure, and banish all pollution, 
By subsequently giving them another grand ablution ; 
Then boil them, — half an hour perhaps, of course your judg- 
ment using, — 
Or steam them, if you like it best ; the method's of your choosing. 
But whether boiled or cooked by steam, the process should be 

rapid ; 
Potatoes moderately cooked are heavy, sogged, vapid. 
Then mash them thoroughly, each lump with vigor pulverizing; 
And put them in a vessel which leaves ample room for rising ; 
A cup half filled with sugar add; 'twill sweeten it enough; 
It needs the same amount of salt; you'll find it quantum stuff. 
The hop infusion strain in next, a pint, you mind, by measure, 
Then with two quarts of water warm, dilute it at your pleasure, 
And gently keep it moving from circumference to center; 
Never fail to bid your silver spoon its hidden depth to enter; 
Then add two brimming cups of yeast and quickly take occasion 
The fragrant mixture to subject to brisk manipulation. 
And when the entire ingredients are mingled well together. 
Then give the opportunity to rise, according to the weather — 
In winter set it near the stove, and oft renew the fire. 
In summer, place it further off, the temperature is higher — 
Then patiently the issue wait, while time his flight is winging, 
Its status scanning now and then ; and when you hear it singing, 
And see upon its surface — now here now there — a bubble. 
You'll feel a thousand fold repaid for all your toil and trouble. 
Give to the wind all idle fears ; all doubts, all scruples banish ; 
And when the bubbies thicken fast, and crowd, and break and 

vanish, 
The yeast is prime, your toil is o'er, success has crowned per- 
sistence. 
And loaves of tender, light, sweet bread are looming in the dis- 
tance. 



When in hasfeyau wish to make delicate light and white bread. 



128 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



BREAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesebrough. 

Take four quarts of sifted flour and a tea cup of yeast; a 
pinch of salt, and wet with warm milk and water stiff enough to 
knead. Work it on the board until it requires no more flour. 
*If made at night, the bread will be light enough to work over 
and put in pans early in the morning. This quantity will make 
two large loaves. One-third of the lump may be taken for rolls, 
which can be made by working in butter the size of an egg, and 
setting aside to rise again ; when light the second time, make 
out in oblong shapes, cover them with a cloth, and let them 
rise again. As soon as they break apart, bake them in a quick 
oven. They will not fail to be nice if they are baked as soon as 
they seam. This is the great secret of white, flaky rolls. Two 
or three potatoes will improve the bread. Good housekeepers 
always have flour sifted in readiness for use, and never use it in 
any other way. 

BREAD. 

M. E. B. Lynde. 

The sponge is made over night in the centre of a pan of flour, 
with milk and warm water and a cup of home-made hop and po- 
tato yeast to about four loaves. The yeast is put in when about 
half the flour and water are mixed, and then the remainder of 
the water is added and the sponge beaten with a wooden spoon 
for fifteen minutes and left to rise over night in a moderately 
warm place. In the morning, the bread-dough mixed and 
kneaded for half an hour, adding flour to make a stiff dough, 
and left to rise in a mass. It is then made into small loaves, 
being kneaded with as little flour as possible, and put in pans to 
rise the second time, all the while kept moderately warm, and 
when light, bake in a moderately hot oven. The important 
part of said recipe is the beating of the sponge fifteen minutes, 
as given. Bread made after this recipe received first premium 
at Wisconsin State Fair, 1872. 

We wish to impress upon all the neccessity of using 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 129 



EXCELLENT BREAD. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Pitkin. 

Four potatoes mashed fine, four tea spoons of salt, two quarts 
of luke warm milk, one-half cake of compressed yeast, dissolved 
in one-half cup of warm water ; flour enough to make a pliable 
dough ; mould with hands well greased with lard ; place in pans, 
and when sufficiently light, it is ready for baking. 

SUPERIOR BREAD. 

Mrs. D. C. Norton. 

Scald one quart of sour milk; when cool enough, set your 
sponge with the whey; take about three quarts of flour, make a 
hole in the centre, put in the whey, about a good teaspoon of 
salt, one teacup of good hop yeast (home made is best,) and stir 
quite stiff" with a spoon ; wrap in a thick cloth, so as to keep as 
warm as possible, (in cold weather,) in summer it is not neces- 
sary. In the morning knead well, adding flour until stiff" enough, 
and keep warm until light; then set it in pans to rise; no salera- 
tus is needed. Bread made in this way will never fail to be 
good, if good flour and yeast are used. 

WHEAT BREAD. 

Mrs. D. W. Thatcher, River Forest. 

Take a pan of flour, and put in a small hand full of salt and a 
bowl of soft yeast and one pint of luke warm milk, mix stiff" with 
flour, and let it rise. Then knead it into pans, and let it rise, 
and if 'wanted very white, knead it down two or three times; 
this makes it whiter, but loses its sweet taste ; bake forty-five 
minutes. 

RICE BREAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesebrough. 

Boil a teacup of rice quite soft ; while hot, add butter the size 
of an egg, one and a half pints of miljc, rather more than one-half 



"Hichards^ (^uecn^'' in making Biscuits, Cakes, Bread or Bolls. 



130 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

pint of bolted corn meal, two tablespoons of flour, two eggs, and 
a little salt. Bake just one hour. The bread should be about 
two inches thick. 

MRS. FURLONG'S BROWN BREAD. 

Three cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, one cup of syrup, 
one cup of sour milk, two cups of sweet milk ; one teaspoon of 
soda, one teaspoon of salt; steam four hours. 

BROWN STEAMED BREAD. 

Mrs. G. B. Griffin. 

Two cups corn meal, one cup Graham flour, one cup white 
flour, one cup molasses, two cups sour milk, one cup sweet milk, 
one teaspoon saleratus; steam four hours. 

RYE AND INDIAN BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Messer. 

One quart of rye meal, unbolted, one quart of Indian meal, 
yellow, one cup molasses, two-thirds cup of yeast, one-half tea- 
spoon of soda ; wet up with milk or water, not very stiff". 

BROWN KREAD. 

Mrs. G. F. DeForest, Freeport, 111. ^ 

One and a half pints of thick sour milk, one and a half cups 
Graham flour, one and a half cups rye flour, two cups two-thirds 
full of Indian meal, one-half cup molasses, salt, one heaping 
teaspoon soda beaten into the milk before adding the other ingre- 
dients. Steam five hours. Very fine. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. C. G. Smith. 

One pint -of sweet milk, four tablespoons of molasses, one cup 
of Indian meal, two cups of rye or Graham flour, one teaspoon 

The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 131 



of salt, one of saleratus; mix with a spoon, and steam three 
hours, and bake half an hour or more. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Lanikin. 

One and one-half cups of rye meal, one and one-half of Indian 
meal, one-half cup of molasses, two and one-half of cold water, 
even teaspoon of soda, a little salt; steam four and a half hours, 
then put it in the oven for a very few minutes, just to take the 
moisture from the top. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. A. L. Chetlain. ' 

One quart of bread sponge, one pint of Graham flour, (perhaps 
a little more,) one egg, one cup of molasses, one tablespoon 
of melted butter, a trifle of salt; mix well together, let rise and 
bake. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Spruance. 

Three cups of corn meal> one of flour, three of sweet milk, 
one of sour milk, two-thirds of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, 
one of salt, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Steam four 
hours : eat while hot. Excellent. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Banks. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one of wheat flour, two large 
spoons of molasses, a little salt, one yeast cake or half cup of 
yeast, warm water enough to make a very stiff" batter. Put it ia 
the bake-tin, and when light enough, bake in a good oven three- 
fourths of an hour. 



Using "Jiicharda' Queen;" it makes Biscuit delicate and light. 



132 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. F. E. Stearns. 

One and one-half cups of Graham flour, two cups of corn meal, 
one-half cup of molasses, one pint of sweet milk, and one-half a 
teaspoon of soda ; steam three hours. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Kent. 

Three and one-half cups of Graham flour, two of corn meal, 
three of sour milk, one-half of molasses, one and one-half tea- 
spoons of soda ; steam two and one-half hours, and put in the 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One quart of Graharai flour, one pint of wheat flour, one-half 
cup of brown sugar, one pint of yeast, a little salt ; let rise, put 
in pans, stand short time to rise and then bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. L. Gilbert, Evanston. 

Three teacups Graham flour, two teacups corn meal, one-half 
teacup molasses, one pint sour milk, one pint water, one tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon salt, put into a tin pail, covered tight- 
ly and boil four hours in a kettle. 

BROWN JOE. 

Mrs. O. L. Wheelock. 

Two cups of Indian meal, two of flour, one of molasses, one 
pint of milk; one teaspoon of soda, same of salt; steam six hours. 

TRAVELER'S BREAD. 

Take Graham flour, (unsifted,) and currants, figs, dates or 
raisins may be used by chopping them; stir quite stiffly with the 



All of our leading Hotels of Chicago are now using 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 138 



coldest water as briskly as possible, so as to incorporate air with 
it; then knead in all the unbolted wheat flour you can; cut in 
cakes or rolls one-half inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. 

STEAMED BREAD. 

Sophia B. Irmberg. 

One cup flour, one cup rye meal, one cup corn meal, one-half 
cup molasses, one and a half cups of sour milk, one egg, little 
salt, one teaspoon soda. Steam for three hours; then set the 
pan in the oven for ten or twenty minutes before sending it to 
the table. 

STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Jane Conger. 

Take three cups of meal, and one of flour, scald two cups of 
the meal with boiling water, add the other cup of meal and 
flour, two cups of sour milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoon of 
soda, a little salt. Steam three hours. 

STEAM LOAF. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

Four cups Indian meal, two cups of flour, two cups of sweet 
milk, two cups of sour milk, one and a half cups molasses, one 
teaspoon of soda and a little salt. Steam three hours. 

CORN MEAL BREAD. 

Mrs. A. M. Chetlain. 

For a small family, one quart of meal run through sieve, one 
teaspoon salt, three eggs broken in the meal and well mixed; 
add one teaspoon of saleratus, and sour milk enough to make a 
stiff batter; mix in this about three tablespoons of melted butter, 
and bake in a hot oven. If baking powder is preferred, use two 
teaspoonsful mixed in the meal while dry, and the same quantity 
of other ingredients, but use sweet milk. 

, - I. I  - 1 I I ff  , ,   

"Richards^ Queen Baking Jbwdcr/" it makes Biscuit very fight. 
10 



134 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Juliet L. Strayer, a Southern Lady. 

One-half pint of butter milk, one-half pint of sweet milk; 
sweeten the sour milk with one-half teaspoon of soda; beat two 
eggs, whites and yolks together; pour the milk into the eggs, 
then thicken with about nine tablespoons of sifted corn meal. 
Put the pan on the stove with a piece of lard the size of an egg, 
when melted pour it in the batter; this lard by stirring it will 
grease the pan to bake in ; add a teaspoon of salt. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. O. F. Avery. 

One pint Indian meal, one pint sour milk or buttermilk, two 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, whites put in last 
thing ; two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, a 
little salt, half a teaspoon saleratus. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Wm, H. Low. 

Two tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon butter, two eggs ; 
stir all together, add one cup of sweet milk, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, and three-fourths of a cup corn meal ; flour to 
make it quite stiff. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

Mrs. G. H. L. 

Five cups Indian meal, yellow, five cups sour milk, three cups 
rye flour, one-half cup molasses, one tablespoon saleratus. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

One pint of meal, one pint of flour, one pint of milk, one tea- 
cup of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, one-half of cream tartar ; 
steam two hours and bake half an hour. 



You'Can only realize the excellence of the above receipts by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 135 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. B. J. Seward. 

One pint sweet milk, one half cup molasses, one teaspoon 
saleratus, one teaspoon salt. Mix thin enough to pour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. / 

Mrs. J. B. Hobbs. 

For one loaf, take two cups of white bread sponge, to which 
add two tablespoons of brown sugar, and Graham flour to make 
a stiff batter; let it rise, after which add Graham flour sufficient 
to knead, but not very stiff; then put in the pan to rise and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. , 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

Set sponge of fine flour, same as for wheat bread; when suffi- 
ciently raised, instead of mixing with fine flour, mix with Gra- 
ham to the usual consistency ; mould with fine flour a little, raise 
once, then it is ready for the oven. Sweeten with syrup or 
sugar, if desired, though I think it better without either. 

' GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Ludlam, Evanston. 

One cup wheat flour, three cups Graham flour, two table- 
spoons of molasses, one teaspoon salt, yeast enough to make it 
rise; mix and put in baking tins at night. It will be ready to 
bake in the morning. 

ROLLS. 

Mrs. H. F. Waite. 

To the quantity of light bread dough that you would take for 
twelve persons, add the white of one egg well beaten, two table- 
spoons of white sugar, and two tablespoons of butter; work these 
thoroughly together; roll out about half an inch thick; cut the 
size desired, and spread one with melted butter, and lay another 
upon the top of it. Bake delicately, when they have risen. 

Using Richards' Queen Baking Pounder and Extracts of Fruit. 



136 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs. A. H. Dashiell, Bricksburg, N. J. 

One quart sifted flour, one-half cup of yeast, two tablespoons 
of sugar, salt, two tablespoons butter and one of lard ; pour one 
l^int of boiling milk over the ingredients, except yeast, and add 
that when lukewarm; mix early in the morning, and knead at 
noon, adding sufficient flour to make as stiff as biscuit; when light 
knead into rolls; roll out rather thin, cut with a biscuit cutter 
and then roll oblong, spread a little butter on one end and fold 
over; let them rise on the pans before baking. They ought to 
bake in ten or fifteen minutes. In cold weather the sponge 
should be made at night. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Alice M. Adams, Mrs. J. P. Hoit and others. 

Two quarts flour, make a hole in the top, put in a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, a little salt, and a tablespoon of white 
sugar ; pour over this a pint of milk previously boiled and cooled, 
and one-half teacup of good yeast. When the sponge is light, 
mould for fifteen minutes, let it rise again and cut into round 
cakes, butter one side and turn over on itself, bake in a quick 
oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs. L. J. Tilton. 

Boil one pint of sweet milk, and when partly cooled melt in 
it half a cup of white sugar and one tablespoon of lard or butter; 
when lukewarm, add half a cup of yeast; make a hole in two 
quarts of flour and pour this mixture in. If for tea, set to rise 
over night, in the morning mix well and knead for half hour, 
then set to rise again; about four o'clock knead again for ten or 
fifteen minutes; roll out thinner than for biscuit, rub melted but- 
ter upon half the surface and fold it upon the other; set to rise 
once more in pans, and when light, ba}ie twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. 



No Biscuit 80 delicate as thai made with "Jiicharde' Queen. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 137 



DETROIT ROLLS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Put one pint warm milk in the middle of two quarts flour, 
beat up a thick batter, a little stiffer than pancakes, and add 
one-half cake German compressed yeast. When light, knead up 
like bread, kneading the dough out in a long roll and folding 
over like pie crust, doing this six or seven times. When again 
light, add a piece of butter size of a large egg, pulling it through 
the dough, then work in two eggs, and one tablespoon sugar that 
has been beaten together very light. Knead again same way as 
before. Roll out on your bread board with rolling pin, cut with 
small round or oval cutters, dipping cutter occasionally in a cup 
of melted lard or drippings instead of flour, and put in pans to 
rise. When creamy light, bake. It will expedite the rising, 
to set the pans over hot water. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mrs. Thos. Orton. 
Take one-half cup of yeast, rub a small one-half cup of butter 
in the flour, (you will have to guess the quantity), then add the 
yeast, and water enough to wet ; mix as for soda biscuit. Let it 
rise till morning. Roll in thin sheets, and cut into squares, 
spread a very little butter on each, and sprinkle a little flour on 
to roll up. Put in the pan when light, bake twenty minutes. 
Nice. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Etta C. Springer. 
One quart flour, add two eggs, one-half pint milk, tablespoon 
of yeast, knead it well ; rise till morning. Work in one ounce 
of butter, and mould in small rolls; bake immediately. 

YF.'^ilLANTI EGG ROLLS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Allow one egg for each person, two cups milk for three eggs, 
four tablespoons flour; beat whites and yolks separately; eggs 



We advise the use of "liichards' Queen''' for taking li^ght fnscuif. 



138 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

are added last. Put a very little of the mixture into a hot frying 
pan, well greased with butter, roll as you would omelet, and pile 
a number on a plat*^er ; send in hot. For breakfast or tea. Can 
be eaten with sugar. 

BROWN ROLLS. 

Mrs. Melancthon Starr, Rockford, 111. 

One quart Graham flour, milk enough to make a stiff batter, 
one-third cup of yeast, and mix over night ; in the morning add 
two eggs, one large tablespoon of sugar, one-fourth teaspoon of 
soda, piece of butter half the size of an egg, and a little salt ; put 
into cups, and let stand twenty minutes before baking. 

CORN MEAL ROLLS. 

Mrs. A. H. Dashiell, Bricksburg, N. J. 

To one quart of mush, add, when hot, one-half cup unmelted 
lard, salt it well; when lukewarm, add one-half cup of yeast; 
make this at noon, and at night add a small teaspoon of soda, 
and knead in wheat flour as for biscuit. In the morning mould 
into biscuit, and let them rise in the pan before baking. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

Mrs. M. 

Three teacups Graham flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon melted butter, milk to wet it 
with. 

TREMONT BISCUIT. 

Brought from Boston by Mrs. O. B. Wilson. 

One and a half pints of warm milk, one tablespoon lard, two 
tablespoons white sugar, a little salt, one yeast cake, (Twin 
Bro's,) a cup of home-made yeast or half a cake of compressed 
yeast as is most convenient ; two quarts of sifted flour. To 
mix — make a hole in the flour and mix in all the ingredients to 

We advise the use of "JRicharda^ Queen Baking Powder,*^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 139 



make a sponge; set in a warm place to rise; when quite light, 
work in all the flour and set the dough once more to rise; when 
well risen, work a little more, and roll out about one-third of an 
inch thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Moisten one edge 
with melted butter, then fold together in the middle like rolls. 
Place them in a bread pan about one inch a part ; set to rise for 
about half an hour in a warm place, and when light, bake in a 
quick oven, allowing from ten to fifteen minutes if the oven is 
just right. Make up about ten o'clock in the morning, if wanted 
for tea ; if wanted for breakfast, make up about nine o'clock in 
the evening, and work in all the flour at the first mixing, then 
add as soon as you are up in the morning, one-half teaspoon of 
soda, mould your biscuit and they will be ready for baking when 
the oven is hot. With compressed yeast, about six hours all to- 
gether is required. These are very delicate and delicious when 
properly made. 

VIRGINIA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. J. G. Hamilton. 

Rub a teaspoonful of lard into a quart of flour, put the flour 
into a sifter and sift a teaspoon of soda with the flour, one tea- 
spoon of salt, and one pint of butter milk to moisten the flour; 
after beating the mixture with a spoon until thoroughly mixed, 
turn it out on a biscuit board, work until smooth, cut it out with 
a cutter and bake with a steady heat. 

/ 

GREEN MOUNTAIN BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Latnkin, Evanston. 

Three cups milk, two cups sugar, one cup butter; make a stiff 
batter at night with two tablespoons yeast ; one-half the sugar 
and one-half the butter melted; in the morning add the other 
half of sugar and butter, and make it not quite as stifl* as yeast 
bread ; two hours before tea make up the biscuits and set them to 
rise. 

When in haste you wish to make delicate light and white bread. 



140 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LIGHT BISCUITS. 

Mrs. A. R. Edwards. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half pint of lard (not melted,) one- 
half pint of home-made yeast ; add salt and flour to mix soft, rise 
once, then put in tins. 

FRENCH BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Lind. 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg (or the whites 
of two,) half a cup of sour milk, half a teaspoon of soda, flour to 
roll; spinkle with sugar. 

RAISED BISCUITS. 

Hannah Johnson ; endorsed by Mrs. A. N. Sheppard. 
Take one and one-half pints of milk, one spoon of lard, two 
of white sugar, and one yeast cake or one-half a package of com- 
pressed yeast, and two quarts of flour ; make a hole in the flour 
and put in all the ingredients ; set in a warm place to rise until 
morning, then mix all together and set to rise again ; when well 
risen, roll out rather thin, cut them out like biscuits, wet one 
edge with melted butter, and fold together like rolls ; when well 
risen, bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. If made 
with compressed yeast, six and one-half hours will be sufficient 
to raise them in winter. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Norcross. 

One cup of hot water, two of milk, three tablespoons of yeast ; 
mix thoroughly ; after it is risen, take two-thirds of a cup of but- 
ter and a little sugar and mould it; then let it rise, and mould 
it into small cakes. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. O. L. Parker. 

Make a good soda or cream biscuit ; mould it and roll it out 
half the thickness of cominon biscuit; spread it over with three 



We tviah to impress upon all the neccessity of using 



1 ( 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 141 



or four spoons of melted butter ; then over this sprinkle half a 
coffee cup of the best sugar ; roll up as compactly as you would 
a roll of jelly cake; slice your roll off into inch thick slices; lay 
these flat on your tins and bake as biscuits. They are very nice 
cold. 

RAISED BISCUITS. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Make a sponge of one pint of milk, a little salt, and half a cake 
of compressed yeast — any other will do; when light, take a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, one-quarter of a cup of sugar, and 
one egg ; beat them up together and stir into the sponge, adding 
flour to make a stiff batter ; stir it well and leave to rise ; then 
take with a spoon, the light dough just enough for each biscuit 
and work softly into shape ; lay into pans and bake after stand- 
ing a short time to rise again. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

Three cups of Graham flour, one of wheat flour, one egg, but- 
ter the size of an egg, one tablespoon of sugar, two of cream tar- 
tar, one of soda ; salt and milk to mix. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

M. 

One quart of Graham flour, three and one-half heaping tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, one of butter; 
make into soft dough with milk. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Phelps. 

Three cups of Graham flour, one cup white flour, three cups 
milk, two tablespoons lard, one heaping tablespoon white sugar, 
one salt spoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cream tartar ; mix and bake as you do the white soda biscuit. 

. :k — — — — — . 

"Hicharda^ Queen^' in making Biscuits, Cakes, Bread or Bolls. 



142 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



RYE BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Two cups rye meal, one and a half cups flour, one-third cup 
molasses, one egg, a little salt, two cups sour milk, two even 
teaspoons saleratus. 

BUNS. 

Two coffee cups bread dough, two eggs, one cup sugar, spices, 
a few currants ; mould like rusk and let them rise before baking. 

BUNS. 

M. 

Take one large coffee cup of warm "milk, 'one-quarter cake of 
yeast and salt ; make sponge, let rise ; when light, work into a 
dough, adding one-half teacup sugar, one egg, butter twice size 
of an egg ; let rise, roll into a sheet, butter it, cut into strips 
three inches wide and six inches long ; fold not quite in the mid- 
dle ; let rise again and bake; when in a dough, if it rises before 
you are ready, push it down. Excellent. 

RUSKS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

* 
To one tumbler of warm milk, add a half gill of yeast, three 

eggs and a coffee cup of sugar, beaten together; two ounces of 

butter rubbed into flour, of which use only enough to enable 

you to mould it; let it raise over night; when very light, roll and 

put on tins to raise again; after which, bake in a quick oven 

twenty minutes. 

RUSKS. 

Milk enough with one-half cup of yeast to make a pint; make 
a sponge and rise; then add one and a half cups of white sugar, 
three eggs, one-half cup of butter; spice to your taste; mould, 
then put in pan to rise. When baked, cover the tops with sugar 
dissolved in milk. 

The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 143 



SODA BISCUITS. 

M. 

To each quart of flour add one tablespoon of shortening, one- 
half teaspoon of salt and three and a half heaping teaspoons of 
Price's Cream Baking Powder; mix baking powder thoroughly 
through the flour, then add other ingredients. Do not knead, 
and bake quick. To use cream-tartar and soda, take the same 
proportions without the baking powder, using instead three 
heaping teaspoons of cream-tartar and one of soda. If good, 
they will bake in five minutes. 

SODA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Three heaping tablespoons of sour cream ; put in a bowl or 
vessel containing a quart and fill two-thirds full of sweet milk, 
four teaspoons of cream-tartar, two teaspoons of soda, a little 
salt; pour the cream in the flour, mix soft and bake in a quick 
oven. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Make good biscuit crust; bake in two tins of same shape and 
size; mix berries with plenty of sugar; open the shortcake, but- 
ter well and place berries in layers, alternated with the crust; 
have the top layer of berries and over all put charlotte russe or 
whipped cream. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

M. 

Make a nice shortcake ; spread in layers of sliced oranges 
with sugar and a little cream. To be eaten with sweetened 
cream. 

APPLE SHORTCAKE. 

M. 

Season apple sauce with butter, sugar, &c.; make a nice short- 
cake, open and butter it and put the apple sauce in layers. 
Serve with sweetened cream. 

Using "Rieharda' Queen ;" it makes Biscuit delicate and light. 



144 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

One quart of warm milk, one-half cup of butter, one of sugar, 
five eggs and one cup of yeast ; flour enough for stiff batter. 
Bake one hour. 

SALLY LUNN. 

M. 

Take one pint of milk, three of flour, three eggs, a little salt, 
two tablespoons of butter, and two of sugar. Yeast enough to 
raise. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One pint of milk, a piece of lard or butter the size of an egg 
warmed in the milk ; take from the stove and add three well 
beaten eggs, three pints of flour, one cup of yeast ; let it stand 
about three hours or until light ; then pour into flat pans without 
working or kneading, and let it stand an hour before baking ; 
'when baked, split and butter; eat while hot. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. I. W. Preston, Highland Park. 

One quart of flour, butter the size of an egg, two eggs, two 
cups of milk, three spoons of baking powder, a pint of salt ; rub 
the salt and baking powder dry with the flour; melt the butter 
in one cup of the milk; add the other cold; break in the eggs 
without beating; stir all together hard, and bake twenty or 
thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Miss Annie Yocum, Cairo, Ills. 

Three teacups of light dough from hop yeast, three teaspoons 
melted butter, one cup of sugar, three well beaten eggs, one-half 
teaspoon of soda dissolved and strained, a pinch of salt, and flour 

All of our leading Hotels of Chicago are now using 



VALFABLE RRCirES. 145 

to make the dough stiff enough to knead well; set away to rise, 
and when light, make out by rolling in cakes to fit your pans, 
one-half inch thick ; place one in the pan, cover well with soft 
butter and lay another on top ; when light bake and serve at 
once. If properly buttered the layers will separate when baked. 
This bread we prize very highly for tea, warm, and any that may 
be left is good cold for breakfast. 

SQUASH CAKES. 

Miss C. Harris. 

One cup squash, one pint sour milk, one egg, a little salt, half 
a teaspoon soda, flour for a batter thick enough to fry. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Six eggs, beaten separately, a half pint of sour cream, a pint 
of sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, 
flour enough to make a thin batter; bake in cups. 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Rice. 

One cup milk, one pint flour, three eggs, piece butter size of 
an egg, two teaspoons cream tartar, on teaspoonful soda, one 
tablespoon butter. 

TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 

One quart sifted flour, one pint sweet milk, butter size of egg, 
two eggs, two teaspoons sugar, one of soda, two of cream tartar; 
bake in small patty-pans. 

WHEAT GEMS. 

Mrs. W. II. Ovington. 

ir , . 

^ One pint milk, two eggs, flour enough to make a batter not 
very still, two large spoons melted butter, yeast to raise them, a 
little soda and salt. Bake in gem irons. 

*'Iiichards' Queen Baking Powder;'^ it makes Biscuit very light. 



146 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens, Winona, Minn. 

One pint sweet milk, two eggs, one-half cup sugar, two heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder, one tablespoon melted butter, 
Graham flour enough to make a stiff batter ; drop in hot gem 
pans. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One, quart Graham flour, one-half cup of wheat flour, one-half 
cup of butter, one teaspoon of cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda, very little sugar, put in cast iron gem pans to bake. 

GEMS. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

A heaping tea saucer of Graham flour, one-half teacups of 
white flour, mix with sweet milk or water until somewhat thicker 
than griddle-cake batter. In the meantime, have your gem-irons 
a little greased, heating on top of the stove. Bake in a hot oven 
and in twenty-five minutes you have a dish for your breakfast 
that is rightly named. Have tried them with and without salt, 
and we think the latter very preferable. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

One quart of sweet milk, one cup syrup, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoon cream tartar, little salt; mix cream tartar in Gra- 
ham flour, soda in the milk, and make it as stiff with the flour 
as will make it drop easily from the spoon into muffin rings. 

POP OVERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

One cup milk, one cup flour, one egg, beaten separately. 
Bake in cups, a tablespoonful to each cup. 

The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 14T 



POP OVERS. 

S. S. Peirce. 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one egg, piece butter size of a 
walnut, a little salt; to be baked in scallops in a very quick 
oven. This rule makes twelve. 

CORN POP OVERS. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

One pint sweet milk scalded ; stir into the hot milk a coffee 
cup of corn meal, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a lit- 
tle salt, three eggs well beaten and stirred in the last thing. No 

soda. 

POP OVERS. 

Mrs. King. 

Three cups milk, three cups flour, three eggs, a little salt, one 
tablespoon melted butter put in the last thing; two tablespoons. 
to a puff. 

ROSETTES. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewing. 

Mix a quart of milk into a pint of flour, beat the whites and 
yolks of three eggs separately, one tablespoonful of butter cut 
fine into the mixture, half teaspoonful salt; add the stifily beat- 
en whites of eggs last of all. Bake in well warmed and greas- 
ed rosettes or muffin pans. 

PUFFS. 

Mrs. Wren. 

Two eggs beaten separately, two cups of milk, two cups of 
flour, butter the size of a walnut; drop into hot irons and bake 
quickly. 

YPSILANTI COCOANUT PUFFS. 

One grated cocoanut, a little over one-half pound pulverized 
sugar stirred in the whites of three eggs, beaten light ; drop in 
small cakes on a dripping pan. Bake in a very quick oven. 

Using ^'Richards' Queen ;^^ it makes Biscuit delicate and lights 



148 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



PUFFS. 

Four cups of milk, ^our cups of flour, four eggs, butter the size 
of two eggs; put in cups half full, and bake for tea or break- 
fast. 

GRAHAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. O. S. Wheelock. 

One pint of Graham flour, one egg, teaspoon salt, one table- 
spoon baking 'powder; wet with milk or water. 

FRITTERS. 

Mrs. Brown. 

One pint sweet milk, four eggs, one quart flour and three tea- 
spoons baking powder sifted together. Serve warm with maple 
syrup. 

FRITTERS OR PUFFS. 

M. 

One pint milk in sauce-pan ; when it boils, stir in flour until 
very thick ; when cold, mix with six well beaten eggs, one table- 
spoon sugar, one-half nutmeg, grated peel of small lemon, one 
tablespoon brandy. Beat well for fifteen minutes. It should be 
thicker than pancake batter. Drop into hot lard. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar or spiced sugar. 

FRITTERS. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

Four eggs, one quart of milk, a little salt; stir a little stifier 
than pancakes, and fry in hot lard. 

FRITTERS. 

M. 

One pint boiling water, one tablespoon butter, one pint flour, 
stirred into water while boiling; let it cool a little, and add four 
eggs, one at a time. Fry in hot lard when the steam rises. 

You can only realize the excellence of the above receipts by 



VALUABr.K RECiri'*. ]-49 



FREN'CII FRITTERS. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs very light, add to theni one pint 
of milk, cut some slices of baker's bread about an inch thick, 
cutting off all the crust and lay them in the milk about fifteen 
minutes. Have your griddle hot, and fry the slices a nice 
brown, using fresh lard for the purpose. Beat the whites of the 
eggs very light, and stir into them one cup of powdered sugar, 
and flavor with lemon ; to be used as sauce with the fritters. 
Some prefer liquid pudding sauce. 



PARSNIP FRITTERS. 
M. 

One-half cup milk and a tablespoon'of butter ; boil five or six 
medium sized parsnips till tender, mash very fine, add two eggs, 
three tablespoons flour and a little salt ; fry a delicate brown in 
hot drippings. Serve on a hot dish, or napkin. 



GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Twelve ears of corn grated, four eggs, tablespoon of butter, 
salt, very little flour; drop a spoonful of the batter into boiling 
lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 
M. 
One tea cup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of sweet light 
dough dissolved in milk, three eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one and one-half teacups of flour, one tablespoon 
of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, peeled apples sliced with- 
out the core ; drop into hot lard with a piece of apple in each 
one ; sprinkled with powdered sugar or spiced sugar. Let thera 
stand after making and they will be lighter. Good. 



Using Richards' Queen Baking Powder and Extracts of Fruit. 
11 



150 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SPICED SUGAR FOR FRITTERS. 

M. 

One tablespoon of finely powdered and mixed spices, (sifted,) 
three tablespoons of powdered sugar well mixed with spices, 
(two-thirds cinnamon and one-third nutmeg and cloves.) 

GREEN CORN CAKES. 

A. M. G. 
Twelve ears of sweet corn grated, one teaspoon of salt, one 
egg and a little more than a good tablespoon of flour. If the 
corn is not young and riiilky, very little or no flour need be 
used. Drop the cakes from the spoon into hot lard or butter. 

Oyster plant fritters may be made in the same way — first boil- 
ing and mashing the oyster plant; six plants would be sufficient 
for one egg. "* 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

S. L. S. 

One coffee cup of sour milk, one tablespoon of sugar or mo- 
lasses, one egg, one scant teaspoon of soda, one-half of salt, 
enough Graham flour to make a stiff" batter; sweet milk and two 
teaspoons of baking powder can be used instead of sour milk 
undsoda. Bake in muffin pans twenty minutes. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Low. 

One tablespoon of butter, two tablespoonful sugar, two eggs 
— stir all together ; add one cup of sweet milk, three teaspoons 
■of baking powder, flour to make a stiff" batter. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 

From a Southern Lady. 

Beat four eggs into a full tablespoon of lard, mix into them 
one and one-half pints sour milk, effervescing with a teaspoon- 

'No Biscuit 80 delicate as that made with ^^Richardn^ Queen. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 161 



ful of soda ; add enough flour to make the consistency of pound 
cake. Bake in heated rings. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Rice. 

Three cups flour, one-half cup sugar, two cups milk, large 
spoonful of butter rubbed to a cream with the sugar, two eggs, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon 
salt. Bake one-half hoi;r. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One pint sweet milk, one-half cup yeast, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon saltj stir a little thicker than 
fritters; set over night. 

MUFFINS. 

M. 

One half-half cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two eggs, two ta- 
blespoons butter, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, flour 
enough to make like cake, 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. C. M., Winnetka. 

Butter size of an egg, three tablespoonsful of sugar, three 
eggs — yolks beaten to a cream, one-half cup sweet milk, flour 
to make a stifl" batter ; add whites of eggs well beaten. Bake in 
muffin pans in a hot oven. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

Five eggs, one quart flour, two small cups of milk, two table- 
spoons melted butter, four tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons 
baking powder and a little salt. 



We advise the use of '^Richards'' Queen*^ for making light biscuit. 



152 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



CINNAMON MUFFINS. 

Mrs N. C. Gridley, Evanston, 

One teacup sour milk, one cup not quite half full sugar, one 
teaspoon soda, one tablespoon cinnamon, one egg; stir thick 
with flour and bake in gem irons. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. P. U. Ayer. 

No. I. — One cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder, two 
tablespoons cream, one egg, flour enough to make a stifl" batter; 
bake in rings. 

No. 2. — Melt one-half teacup of butter in a pint and a half of 
milk, one gill of yeast, four eggs well beaten, and flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. When light, bake in rings. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Lake Forest. 

One and a half pints of Graham flour, one-half pint wheat 
flour. Take a pint cup three-fourths full of sour milk ; add sour 
cream until full, soda to sweeten, and little molasses and little 
salt. Bake in gem irons and have the irons hot before turning 
in the mixture. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. I.. Cornell. 

One egg, butter half size of an egg, three cups Graham flour, 
three teasi^oonful baking powder, a pinch of salt, one-half ))int 
milk or milk and water; to be of thickness of ordinary cake batter. 
Corn cake may be made same way, only use two cups flour and 
one of meal, instead of the Graham flour, as above. Excellent. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. L. J. Tillon. 

One egg, half a cup of sugar, piece of butter the size of an 
egg, one cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder, Graham meal 



ire advise (he use ofJiichards^ Queen JJakivg Foudcr,^' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 153 

• . . .* 

to make a batter thick enough to dro^ in rings without spread- 
ing; thoroughly mix the baking powder with the meal; melt the 
butter and mix well with the sugar and egg; add the milk and 
gradually stir in the meal. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

One egg, one and a half cups of sour milk, one teaspoon sal- 
eratus, a little salt, two tablespoons of melted lard or butter, two 
tablespoons molasses; ipake as stiff as corn meal. Bake fifteen 
minutes. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

Two cups of rye, one of flour, one of sugar, one egg, one tea 
spoon of soda, and a little salt ; mix quite stiff with sour milk. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Two cups of Indian meal scalded with as little water as possi- 
ble, one coffee cup of flour, one tea cup of sweet milk, one ta- 
blespoon of shortening, one-half cup of brown ^ugar, a small cup 
of yeast; mi)ied over night. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Mrs. A. M. Cibbs. 

Soak a pint of meal over night in sweet milk, just enough to 
wet it ; in the morning dibsulvc half a teaspoon of soda in a tea- 
spoon of hot water; then fill the cup with buttermilk or sour 
milk ; add this with the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoon of 
thick cream or melted butter to the meal, also half a teaspoon of 
salt. Have your rings or muffin-frames hot, and bake twenty 
minutes. If preferred, a shallow pan can be used. 

When in haste you wish to make mllcate light and white bread. 



154 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Spruance. 

Two cups flour, three-fourths of white corn meal, three-fourths 
of butter, one-half of sugar, two eggs, one cup of milk, three .tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford, III. 

One cup sour cream, two cups butter milk, two eggs, a little 
salt, one teaspoon soda. Bake in waffle irons. 

WAFFLES. 

M.  

One pint sour milk, three tablespoons melted butter, three 
eggs, b.eaten separately, one tea-spoon soda, salt, flour enough to 
make a thick batter. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

C. T. C, Evanston, 111. 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk or water till tender ; 
while warm, add a piece of butter the size of an egg, two eggs ; 
make into rolls, dip them in cracker crumbs and fry them in lard 
or butter. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. N. C. Gridley, Evanston. 

To about one quart of boiled rice, add the yolks of three 
eggs and a little salt ; make it up into balls, roll them in flour 
and fry them in hot lard, as you would doughnuts. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One teacup rice, one pint milk, one pint water, a little salt; 
butter a tin, put in the mixture and swell on the stove, where it 
will not quite simmer. When dry, add two eggs, beaten light, 

^ ^ 

We tvish to impress xi'mn all the neccessity of using 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 155 



with with two tablespoons of sugar and one of butter. Have 
ready cracker crumbs spread on a board thickly. Make a roll of 
the rice in the crumbs ; drop in hot lard and brown. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Rice boiled in milk and flavored with lemon or orange flower 
water ; add sugar and eggs ; when cold, cut in small pieces ; roll 
them in flour dipped in egg, then roll again in bread crumbs, fry 
in hot fat, as you would doughnuts. 

CORN MEAL PONES. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Scald a quart of milk ; stir into one pint of meal six eggs beat- 
en separately, a little salt, one table spoon flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder; bake in white cups or small bowls and send to 
the table in the cups, so they may be hot to be turned out on to 
the plate and eaten with butter or syrup. For tea or breakfast. 

GOOD BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Three eggs well beaten, two and a half teacups of flour, one 
pint of sweet milk, a little salt ; make a batter of these, bake in 
cups or rings and bake in a quick oven. 

' BANNOCKS. 
M. 

One pint corn meal, pour on it boiling water to thoroughly wet 
it ; let it stand a few minutes ; add salt and one egg and a little 
sweet cream, or a tablespoon melted butter. Make into balls 
and fry in hot iard. 



m 



"Richarda' Queen^^ in making Biacuita, Cakes, Bread or Rolls. 



156 THR IIOMR COOK BOOK. 

INDIAN BANNOCKS. 

R. A. Sibley. 

One quart Indian meal, with a little salt, wet it quite soft with 
boiling water or milk, must be boiling; wet your hands; pat 
them out in small flat cakes ; fry in hot lard, not enough to cover 
them. Cook one side first, then turn. Cheap and good for 
breakfast. 

STELLA'S CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

No. I. — One pint milk, one pint meal, two eggs, a piece of 
butter size of an egg, one and a half teaspoons cream tartar, 
three-fourths teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, a Httle sugar. 

No. 2. — One pint sour milk, two eggs, one pint meal, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one teaspoon saleratus. 

No. 3. — One pint sour milk, one-half pint water, one quart 
meal, three tablespoons melted lard, one teaspoon saleratus, one 
teaspoon salt. 

CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One pint of grated sweet corn, three tablespoons milk, one 
teacup of drawn butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
black pepper, one egg. Drop by the tablespoon in hot butter. 
Fry from ten to twenty minutes. 

CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. B. F. Adams. 
Three cups Indian meal, one cup flour, two cups sweet milk, 
one cup sour milk, one egg, teaspoon salt, teaspoon soda. Bake 
half an hour. This, with half a cup molasses and one cup suet, 
makes a nice pudding. Steam four hours. 

The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 157 



CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. Pulnip. 
One pint of milk, one-half pint of corn meal, two tablespoons 
of fiour, two eggs, one tablespoon of lard or butter, three table* 
spoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon baking powder. Beat well. 

CORN CAKES. 

S. S. Peirce. 

One pint meal, one pint flour, one cup white sugar, two eggs, 

piece of butter size small egg; melt the butter; teaspoon soda, 

two teaspoons cream-tartar, salt, sweet milk; make as thick as 

griddle cakes. 

GOOD CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. Wm. C. Harris. 
Scald about a pint of corn meal at night, adding a little salt^ 
in the morning stir in one egg, and milk enough to make it thin 
enough to drop from a spoon on a tin. 

CORN CAKES. 

E. E. Macey. 
One and one-half cups of Indian meal, one-half cup fine flour,^ 
one-half of molasses, one of milk, one-half teaspoon soda, a lit- 
tle salt. For weak stomachs, it is an improvement to add a little 
ginger. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Orson Smith. 

Two quarts warm water, one teaspoon salt, one cup flour, one 
cup corn meal, one-half teacup yeast, two eggs well beaten and 
added the last ; raise over night. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford, 111. 
Twelve ears corn grated, four eggs, one cup sweet milk, (cream 
is better,) one cup flour, three tablespoons butter, if you use milk, 
none if you use cream ; a little salt. Bake on a griddle. 



Using ^'Hicharda' Queen;" it makes Bhouif rJ^rfrate and light. 



158 THE HOME COOK BOOK, 



RICE CAKES. 

Mrs. Luiit, Evanston. 

One cup soft boiled rice, add one-half cup milk, the yolks of 
three eggs, two tablespoons flour, a little salt; then beat the 
whites to a stiff froth and mix with the rest. Fry on a buttered 
griddle as soon as possible after adding the whites of the eggs. 
Nice for invalids. 

SQUASH GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Rice. 

One cup squash, two eggs, one and a half pints milk, salt to 
flavor, flour to make it of a consistency for frying; add a little 
soda dissolved in milk. 

QUICK BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, one-half a tea cup of corn 
meal or wheat flour, a little salt, and two tablespoons of syrup. 
Wet these with cold or warm water to a thin batter, and add last- 
ly four good tablespoons of baking powder. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Lake Forest. 

One quart buckwheat flour, four tablespoons yeast, one tea- 
spoon salt, one handful Indian meal, two tablespoons molasses, 
not syrup. Warm water enough to make a thin batter; beat 
very well and set in a warm place. If the batter is the least 
■sour in the morning, add a little soda. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Lake Forest. 

Soak three-fourths of a pint of meal over night in three cups 
of sour milk and one of sour cream ; in the morning add one 
pint of flour, a little salt and two eggs ; soda to sweeten the mix- 
ture. 

All of our leading Hotels of Chicago are now using 



VALUABLE RECIPE8. 159 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

M. 

One pint of corn meal, two tablespoons melted butter, one 
teaspoon salt, two eggs, one tablespoon sugar, sour milk enough 
to make batter; saleratus, (if you should get in a little too much, 
it is easily remedied by adding a few drops of vinegar.) 

OAT MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. J. M. Wetherell, Englewood, 111. 

One cup oat meal, one cup flour, one teaspoon sugar, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt ; sift the baking 
powder in with the flour; add cold water to make a batter of the 
consistency of buckwheat cakes; beat very well together and 
bake immediately. This recipe is sufficient for a family of three. 

MUSH. 

Indian or oat meal mush, is best made in the following man- 
ner : Put fresh water in a kettle over the fire to boil, and put 
in some salt ; when the water boils, stir in handful by handful 
corn or oat meal, until thick enough for use. In order to have 
e.xcellent mush, the meal should be allowed to cook well, and 
long as possible while thin, and before the final handful is added. 
When desired to be fried for |jreakfast, turn into an earthen 
dish a ndset away to cool. Then cut in slices when you wish 
to fry; dip each piece in beaten eggs and fry on a hot griddle. 



OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

Take two tablespoons of oat meal, pour on it a pint of cold 
water ; let it stand half a day, then pour it through a sieve and 
boil well one-(iuarter of an hour, stirring all of the time ; season 
according to taste. The coarse meal to be rejected. Good for 
invalids or children. 
* . 

*' Richards' Queen Baking Powder;^^ it makes Biscuit very light. 



160 THE IIOMR COOK BOOK. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Ten eggs are equal to one pound. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of white sugar pow- 
dered or loaf sugar broken, is equal to one quart. 
One pound of butter, when soft, is equal to one quart. * 
One pound and two ounces Indian meal is equal to one quart. 
One pound and two ounces of wheat flour is equal to one quart. 

Four large tablespoons are equal to one-half gill. 

Eight large tablespoons are equal to one gill. 

Sixteen large tablespoons are equal to one-half pint. 

A common sized wine glass holds half a gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

Four ordinary teacups of liquid are equal to one quart. 



We advise you to use ^'liichards' Queen Baking Powder '' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 16S 



cd, turn it over the whites, beating all together rapidly until of 
the right consistency to spread over the cake. Flavor with lem- 
on if preferred. This is sufficient for two loaves. 

FROSTING. 

Mrs. F. D. Gr.iy. 

To two-thirds teacup sugar add two small tablespoons water 
and let the water boil out. Then turn the syrup slowly on the 
beaten white of one egg. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Ella Guild. 

One cup frosting sugar, fwo tablespoons of water boiled to- 
gether; take it off the stove and stir in the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff froth; stir all together well; then frost your 
cake with it ; and you will never want for a nicer frosting than 
this. 

ICK CREAM ICING FOR WHITE CAKE. 

\ Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Two (lips of pulverized sugar boiled to a thick syrup; add' 
three teaspoons vanilla ; when cool, add the whites of two eggs 
v>c-ll beaten, and flavored with two teaspoons of citric acid. 

ICING. 

Mrs. II. P. Stowell. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour ovef'Sftne tablespoon cold 
water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a stiff froth ; add 
to the sugar and water ; put in a deep bowl ; place in a vessel of 
boiling water and heat. It will become thin and clear. After- 
ward begin to thicken. When it becomes quite thick remove 
from the fire and stir while it becomes cool till thick enough to 
spread with a knife. This will frost several ordinarily sized cakes. 



I'arlar and Soda, Sour Milk and Soda, or other Baking Poivdcr^ 



1G4 THE HOME CX)OK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE F HOSTING. 

Mrs. II. L. Bristol. 

Six tablespoons of baker's grated chocolate scalded with 
enough milk to make a paste that will spread easily ; sweeten to 
taste and flavor with vanilla. This is about enough for one rule 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Mrs. E. H. Wheeler. 

Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups of fine sugar, six 
great spoons of grated chocolate, two teaspoons of vanilla; spread 
rather thickly between layers and on the top of cake; best when 
freshly made. It should be made like any frosting. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

One cup grated chocolate, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk. 
Boil until thick and flavor with vanilla while cooling. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. II. Wheeler. * 

Three-fourths pound butter, one pound sugar, (brown,) one 
pound flour, two pounds currants, three pounds raisins, (seed- 
ed,) one-half pound citron, one-fourth pound almonds, eight 
eggs, one nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon, one wine-glass of brandy ; 
the raisins are better to be soaked in brandy over night. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. G. F. Deforest. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds sugar, two pounds butter, 
eight pounds raisins, four pounds currants, one pint brandy, two 
pounds citron, twenty-four eggs, two ounces nutmeg, two tea- 
spoons of cloves ; add a little molasses to make it more moist 
and black. 'I'his makes two very large loaves, baked in tin-pans 
I'Or hoops. For weddings. Splendid. 

All leading Hotels of Chicago {'11) are using Hicharda' Queen 



VALKABLE RECIPES. 165 



BEST BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

One pound of flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, ten 
eggs, half a pint of brandy, four pounds currants, four pounds 
raisins, one pound citron, two tablespoons molasses, two table- 
spoons cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, two nutmegs ; flour the 
fruit; bake three hours. ' 

MOTHER DORCHESTER'S BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. Kate Johnson. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, ten eggs, 
three pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one-half pound cit- 
ron, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, tw© teaspoons 
nutmeg, one wine glass of brandy or alcohol. Stone the raisins 
and pour the liquor over them, and cover tight over night. 
Brown the flour to darken the cake. Bake from two to four 
hours. Will keep good two or three years. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. N. C. Gridley, Evanston. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, three pounds seeded raisins, one pound currants, one 
pound citron, one-quarter pound almonds, blanched and pow- 
dered in rose water; one nutmeg, one wine glass brandy, ten 
eggs. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, then add whites and 
eight yolks of eggs, beaten separately. Stir in the flour, then 
spices and add the fruit just before it is put in the pans. Bake 
slowly. This cake will keep two years. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Earlc, Peoria, 111. 

One pound flour, three-quarters of pound of sugar, one-half 
pound butter, one-half pint of cream, four eggs, one pound rais- 

Bakmg Powder, as articles made unth this are very delicate, 
12 



166 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ins, one of currants, one-half of citron, two glasses brandy, spices 
to the taste, small lump soda. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Earle, Peoria, 111. 

Three teacups flour, one coffee cup of sugar, three-quarters of 
a teacup butter, three-quarters of a teacup of milk, three eggs, 
raisins, and currants. 

NICE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. E. Brown, Evanston. 

One pound butter, two pounds sugar, three pounds flour, four 
eggsj put together in the usual manner with plenty of fruit, rais- 
ins, currants and citron; four teaspoons baking powder; and 
sufficient flour to make the batter quite stiff". Spices to your 
taste. To improve the color of the cake, brown the flour before 
using. It is not too rich. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Guthrie. 

Twelve eggs, one pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one ponnd cit- 
ron, two tablespoons cinnamon, four nutmegs, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, one gill brandy. Bake two hours or more. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. P. Wightman, Evanston. 

Twelve eggs, one pound flour, fourteen ounces butter, two 
pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron, one pound 
brown sugar, one nutmeg, one teaspoon ground cloves, one tea- 
spoon extract rose, one-half teaspoon soda. Beat the eggs to a 
froth, and the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs and the 
flour, dissolve the soda in a tablespoon of boiling water; add fruit 
and bake in a moderate oven. This cake will keep for months. 

When you have Company, and wish elegant Cake, use 



'•n-- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 167 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Louisa Churchill. 



One pound of sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, four 
pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one and one-half pounds 
citron, one gill brandy, one cup cream, one nutmeg, one tea- 
spoon soda. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H, Ovington. 

One pound of flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, two 
pound raisins, two pounds currants, one-half pound citron, ten 
eggs, four large nutmegs, one-fourth ounce mace, one-fourth 
ounce cloves, one-half ounce cinnamon, one gill brandy, one 
gill wine. 

FRUIT CAKE. • " 

Mrs. Creole. 

One pound of flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, three 
pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one pound citron, two 
grated lemons, ten eggs, three nutmegs, three ounces cinnamon, 
one gill brandy, one gill wine. Bake two and one-half hours 
in a ^en quart pan. 

FARMER'S FRUIT CAKE. 

> 

Lucy Settle. 

Three cups of sour dried apples, soak over night in warm wa- 
ter. In the morning drain off" the water, chop them the size of 
raisins, (not too fine,) then simmer in two cups of molasses two 
hours or until the apples absorb all the molasses ; one and one- 
half cups butter and one cup of sugar well beaten, one cup sweet 
milk, four eggs, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one of nutmeg, one and one-half teaspoons soda, one wine-glass 
wine, four and one-half teacups flour, one teacup currants or 
raisins rolled in flour. Bake in a well heated oven. 






^'Richards' Queen,^' as it makes Cake very Delicate and Light. 



168 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



# 



FARMER'S FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. P. Cragin. 

Take three cups of dried apples, wash them and soak them 
over night in water. In the morning drain off tlif water and 
chop them ; add two cups of molasses, and let them simmer two 
hours, or until the molasses is all absorbed. Let them cool be- 
fore adding them to the other ingredients, then take one cup of 
brown sugar, three-fourths ctp butter, two eggs, one cup milk, 
one small teaspoon soda, one and one-half teaspoon cream-tartar, 
one large tablespoon cloves, one of allspice, two of cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, the grated rind of two lemons and the juice of one, 
one-fourth pound of citron, one cup of raisins, flour enough to 
make it the consistency of cup cake. Bake in a moderate oven. 

" • DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

^Irs. G. W. Gage. 

One cup of dried apples soaked over night, then steamed till 
soft ; put them into a cup of molasses and simmer slowly till well 
cooked; when cool, add one egg, one-hdf cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, .two and a half cups of flour, 
one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar and spice to taste. 

^ DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Mrs. G. F. De Forest, Freeport, 111. 

Two ips dried 'apples covered with boiling water and soaked 
over nifeUt; in the morning pour off the water; chop rather fine, 
put in a sauce-pan, with one and a hMf cups of sugar and one 
cup molasses, and a little of the water; simmer until the syrup is 
nearly absorbed ; add two-thirds of a cup of butter, the yolks 
of two eggs and white of %ne, one cup of currants, two and a 
half cups of flour, spice as for other fruit cakes. Take the other 
white of egg, and frost the cake. This makes two loaves. Can- 
not be told from rich fruit cake. 

The excellence of the above receipts can only he realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 169 



PORK FRUIT CAKE. ^^ 

One pound pickled pork chopped fine, one pint boiling watei^^K. 
poured upon the chopped pork, one cup sugar, two cups mo-^^^ 
lasses, one, pound raisins chopped, one-fourth pound candied 
citron, two tablespoons ground cloves, three tablespoons cinna 
mon, one nutmeg, one teaspoon ginger, one tablespoon soda. 

DRIED APPt^E CAKE. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

Soak six cups good dried apples over night. In the morning 
chop'them and, simmer gently two hours in two cups of molasses; 
when cool, add one-half pound raisins, (chopped,) one cup but- 
ter, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, one and one- 
half teaspoons soda, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 
Make ratlier stiff. 

RAISED CAKE. 

C. T. Stevens. 

Two cups bread dough, two cups sugar, two eggs, one and 
one-half cups butter, one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk ; raisins, 
cloves and cinnamon to your taste. 

BREAD CAKES. 

Mrs. H. B. Iluid. 

Three cups dough, three cups sugar, one cyp butter, three eggs, 
three teaspoons soda, raisins and nutmeg ; rub butter and sugar 
together ; add the eggs ^nd .sjjice, mix well with the dough ; the 
cake will be lighter if it stand a short time before putting in oven. 

NEW ENGLAND THANKSGIVING CAKE. 

Miss Nancy Cotton, Lon^Meadow, Mass. 
Five pounds flour, two and one-half pounds shortening, (but- 
ter and lard,) three and three-fovrths pounds sugar, three pounds 

Using '^Hichards' Queen,"' an it maken Cake truly elegant. 



170 THB HOMK COOK BOOK. 



SI 

• 



Stoned raisins, three eggs, three small teaspoons soda, extract of 
innamon, five nutmegs, one-half spoon mace, one large spoon 
of lemon to the loaf, one glass of wine, one glass of brandy, and 
citron. This makes seven loaves. Make over night with one 
large cup of yeast, with half the shortening and sugar. Be sure 
not to keep too warm or to let get cold. In the morning have 
the shortening warmed, but not hot; add spices and fruit, letting 
all rise again before putting in pans; rub flour in the chopped 
raisins, and reserve the citron and one-half the raisins; stir into 
the top of the pans just before baking ; let stand an hour in tins 
before baking. In first mixing, use warm milk enough for a 
stiff batter, keeping a handful of flour for the fruit. 

NEW ENGLAND ELECTION CAKE. 

Mrs. Jno. King, Jr. 

Take three pounds sifted flour, leaving out a pint to put in 
with fruit, and mix in warm milk till it is a stiff batter; weigh 
one and a half pounds of sugar, one pound butter; mix them to 
a cream, then mix one-half this with the batter of milk and 
flour, and one-half pint of good home-made yeast ; beat very 
thoroughly together ; when light, which will take several hours 
in winter, (better to mix at night and stand in a warm place till 
morning ; ) add the remainder of butter and sugar with six eggs, 
and one pound raisins, one glass brandy, cinnamon, mace or 
nutmeg, as the taste, and a little soda ; if in season of scarcity 
of eggs, it is very good without any ; should rise the second 
time before putting in pans for baking. The more such cake is 
beaten the finer and lighter it will be. 

A PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ada Stuitevant, Delavan, Wis. 

(Jnc cup of butter, thre^f brown sugar, three of sour milk, 
six of flour, two eggs, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves ; two cups 
of raisins and currants improve it. Add the fruit the last thing. 
Bake in two tins. 

Why should the patience of ladies be tried irheu a child can 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 171 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. E. H. Dennison. 4H^* 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of brown sugar, one-half 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of sour milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
one-half teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of cream tartar, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one cup of raisins chopped fine, one cup 
of currants, one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Mrs. W. P. Nixon. 

One pint bowl of dough as it is ready to mould into loaves, 
four eggs beaten separately, one cup of butter, two cups of white 
sugar, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one nutmeg, one-half 
teaspoon of soda, one pint bowl of stoned raisins; mix by 
hand ; put the dough in a large bowl ; first work in the butter 
well, then the sugar and spice, next the yolks, then the whites 
of the eggs, then the soda, J^st dissolved in a little warm water; 
lastly, the raisins. Bake aoout as long as you would bread. 
This quantity makes two loaves. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

Three teacups of light dough, three-fourths cup butter, two 
cups sugar, three eggs, small teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, nutmeg or cinnamon for spice, a coffeecup of raisins 
or currants; mix all well together and let it raise in the pan fif- 
teen or twenty minutes before setting in the oven. 

RAISED LOAF CAKE.. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray.' 

Three cups of milk, two cups s|^^r, one cup yeast, flour to 
make a thick batter. Stand till ligh^^ti^ add two cups sugar, 
two cups butter, two eggs, raisins and spices. Stand from one 
to three hours in the tins. 



Always make delicoAe and light cake with ^'Jilcharda' Queen f^' 



172 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



DOUGH CAKE. 

1^ Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Four cups dough, one and one-half cups butter, two and one- 
half cups sugar, two eggs, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, brandy and 
a small spoon of soda. Rise from one to three hours. For two 
loaves. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

One cup of sponge, one-half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half teaspoon soda, two eggs, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, one teaspoon cloves, one of cinnamon, and nutmeg. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. John King, Jr. 

Four pounds light dough, two pounds sugar, one pound butter, 
four eggs, one pound stoned and chopped raisins, (sliced citron, 
if you like,) one wine-glass brandy % wine, small teaspoon soda, 
mace or nutmeg ; mix sugar and butter with the eggs, well beaten ; 
then with the hands mix the dough to the ingredients, beating 
very thoroughly ; add spices and fruit, and allow to rise before 
baking, after putting in the pans. 

Plainer Loaf Cake. — Six cups light dough, three cups su- 
gar, one and one-half cups butter, three eggs, small teaspoon of 
saleratus, spice and fruit as you please ; mix as the fruit. Dough 
for cake should always be light, either bread or biscuit ; if bis- 
cuit dough is used, a little less shortening is needed, and to 
insure light cake, the bread should be made from good home 
made yeast. 

FRENCH LOAF. 

Mrs. H. M. Buell. 



Ten cups of flour, six q»s sugar, three cups butter, six eggs, 
three nutmegs, two ciijji mrlk, one pound raisins, a little citron, 
glass of wine or brandy, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream- 
tartar. Makes four loaves. 



We advise you to use '^^ Richards' Queen Baking Powder " 



f?**^ 



■4« 



VALUABLE RECIPL-S. 173 



LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. G. F. De Forest, Freeport. 

Four pounds flour, two pounds sugar, two and a half pounds 
butter, (or one and a quarter pounds butter and three-quarters 
of a pound lard,) three and a half pounds raisins, a little citron ; 
add wine, brandy, four eggs, one teaspoon soda, and spice 
as you please; rub the butter and sugar well together, then 
take half and work into the flour; add half a pint of domestic 
yeast ; make the dough not quite as stiff" as biscuit. When it 
has well risen, work in the other half of the butter and sugar, 
with the spices and brandy. When thoroughly light, add the 
eggs, beaten separately, and the fruit. Let it rise an hour in 
the tins; bake one and a quarter hours. It will keep all winter, 
if frosted. This rule makes eight loaves. 



LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Two cups light dough, one cup sugar, one cup chopped rais- 
ins, small one-half cup of soft butter, one egg, half a nutmeg, 
teaspoon of cinnamon; one-half a wine glass of wine can be add- 
ed if desired; dissolve one-half teaspoon of soda in two table- 
spoons of milk; mix the butter and sugar well into the dough 
with the hand, before adding the rest of the ingredients; flour 
the raisins; a little flour may be added if the brandy is used and 
the cake seems too thin. Mix or stir very thoroughly, and raise 
about an hour or until it looks light. 



QUICK LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. H. M. Buell. 

One cup of sugar, one-half of butter, one of milk, one egg, 
two and one-half cups of flour, one-half teaspoon of soda, one 
teaspoon of cream tartar. 

In the above receipts, if you winh to realize their excellence. 



174 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington, 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, ten eggs; beat the yolks 
and sugar together; add one pound of butter, putting in the 
whites beaten to a froth, and the flour last. Very nice baked 
in small patty pans and frosted. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. G. S. Whitaker. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, fourteen ounces butter, one 
■cup sour milk, or sweet milk with soda or cream tartar mixed 
in milk, whites of twelve eggs; flavoring, and citron. 

MOUNTAIN POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford, III. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, one-half of butter, six eggs, 
■^the whites and yolks beaten separately,) three-fourth cup sweet 
milk, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar ; sift the soda and 
cream tartar together into the flour, after sifting the flour; then 
rub butter and sugar to a cream, and add a part of the whites 
and the yolks of the eggs, also a part of the flour, and then the 
milk. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. H. E. Sargent. 

One pound flour, one of sugar, three-fourths of butter, nine 
€ggs, one and a quarter pounds almonds, before being cracked, 
one-half pound citron, one and a half pounds raisins, one nut- 
meg, the rind and juice of one lemon. Blanch the almonds, 
and chop fine. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

M. A. T. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, one of butter, ten eggs, one 
pound almonds, three-quarters of citron cuf* fine, one glass of 

Vse ^'jRicliards^ Queen Baking Potcder'' in the place of Cream 



VALUABLE RKCIPES. 175 



brandy and mace; put the fruit in the flour, and bake in thick 
loaves. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. De Forest. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, three-fourths of butter, one of 
almonds, blanched and cut fine, one-half of citron, one-half of 
raisins, rind and juice of one lemon, one nutmeg, ten eggs. 
This is very delicious and will keep for months. Elegant. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Elmina Meeker, Cortland, III. 

Two cups of white sugar, one of cream, (sweet), two of flour, 
one tablespoon of butter, the whites of five eggs, one teasf)oon 
of cream tartar, one-half of soda. Flavor with lemon. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Marian Ely, Cortland, 111. 

One cup of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half of sweet milk, 
whites of two eggs, one teaspoon of cream tartai, one-half of 
soda, two and one half cups of flour. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half of butter, the whites of four eggs, 
one cup sweet milk, three of flour, three small teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder sifted with the flour. Beat t+ie sugar and butter to a 
cream, then stir in the milk and flour, a little at a time ; add the 
whites last. All cake should be well stirred before the whites of 
the eggs are added. Never fails. 

WHITE CAKE. 

L. Sherwood. 

The whiter oi llh eggs, one and one -half i uj.^ <m :>ngar, one 
of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, one-half Of lemon. 

Tartar and Soda, Sour Milk and Soda, or other Baking Powder. 



176 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

WHITE CAltE. 

Mrs. Brown. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half sugar, one-half of 
sweet milk, the whites of four eggs ; add last two cups of flour 
and one and one-half teaspoons of baking powder sifted togeth- 
er. Flavor to taste. 

PRIZE WHITE CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Kate W. Hoge. 

One cup of butter, four cups sifted flour or three of unsifted, 
two cups of white sugar, one of sour milk with one-half teaspoon 
soda, five eggs, beaten separately. Beat the yellow of the eggs 
until light, then add the sugar, and beat it well together, then 
add the whites of the eggs (beaten well beforehand) alternating 
with the flour (after being sifted.) Mix the white of the eggs 
and flour very slowly and bake in a moderately heated oven at 
first, then finish with a hotter oven. Try it with a straw or knife; 
when the dough don't stick, it is done. Use flavoring to taste. 
This will make one large or two small cakes. 

WHITE OR BRIDE'.^ CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. Taylor. 

The whites of twenty-two eggs beaten to a stifi" froth, two 
pounds of flour, one and one-half pounds of butter, (the butter 
and flour creamed together,) and two pounds of white sugar. 
Bake quickly. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Three-fourths cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, one 
cup corn starch, two cups flour, one and- one-half teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Mix corn starch, flour and baking powder together ; 
add to the butter and sugar alternately with the milk ; lastly, add 
the whites of seven eggs. Flavor to taste. Never fails to be 
good. 

All leading Hotels of Chicago (22) are using Richards' Queen 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 177 



SNOW CAKE. 

Mrs. Kent. 

Whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one and one-half 
tumblers powdered sugar, one tumbler of flour, one very full 
teaspoon of cream-tartar. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Beat one cup of butter to a cream, then add one and one-half 
cups flour, and stir very thoroughly together; next one cup of 
corn starch, and one cup of sweet milk in which you have dis- 
solved three teaspoons baking powder ; last of all, add the whites 
of eight eggs, and two cups sugar well beaten together; flavor 
to taste ; bake in one large loaf, or in sheets, and put together 
with icing. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Anson Gorton. 

One coffee cup butter, two cofiee cups sugar, four coffee cups 
flour, one-half coffee cup milk. The whites of eight eggs, two 
tablespoons cream tartar, even teaspoon soda. Flavor to the 
taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Marian Ely, 

The whites of four eggs well beaten, one cup white sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Louisa Churchill. 

One cup corn starch, one of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet 
milk, two of flour, the whites of seven eggs. Rub butter and 
sugar to a cream, mix one spoon cream tartar with the flour and 
starch, one-half spoon soda with the sweet milk ; add the milk 
and soda to the sugar and butter, then add flour, then the whites 
of eggs and one spoon of lemon flavor. 

Baking Powder, aa articles made ivith this are very delicate. 



178 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 

One and a half cups powdered sugar, one-half of butter, one 
and a half of flour, one-half of corn starch, sifted with the fl®ur, 
one-half of milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, one 
small teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda ; flavor with 
almond or vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, eight eggs, 
three cups flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Furlong's. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, one of butter, two of flour, two- 
thirds of milk, two teaspoons baking powder ; mix well with 
flour, whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. A. Forsyth. 

The whites of four eggs, two cups of white sugar well beaten 
together, four tablespoons melted butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups sifted flour, two teaspoons Dr. Price's baking powder 
mixed with the flour. This cake, if baked in a slow oven, will 
be very nice. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

H. M. Brewer. 

One-half cuj) of butter, one of powdered sugar, one of sweet 
milk, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one of soda, both stirred 
into the milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, two cups 
of flour; lastly, two-thirds cup of corn starch. Flavor with 
bitter almond. 



Whe/i yov have Company, and urish elegant Cake, use 



VALUABLE RECIPEB. 179- 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. L., Evanston. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, two of 
flour, one of corn starch, the whites of seven eggs, one teaspoon 
teaspoon of cream tartar, one of soda. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

One and a half cups sugar, two-thirds of butter, two-thirds of 
sweet milk, three of flour, one and a half teaspoons cream tartar, 
one-half of soda, whites five eggs. For jelly cake, whites of six 
eggs. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Alice M. Adams. 

One-half cup butter, two of sugar, nearly three of flour, three- 
fourths of sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder, whites of 
six eggs; use chocolate and white frosting. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. E. Browne, Evanston. 

Two eggs, a trifle over half a cup of butter, one cup sweet 
milk, one and a half of sugar, and three teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Put together in the usual manner, and flavor with extract 
of almonds or lemon. Made with the whites of four eggs, it is 
admirable for cocoanut cake; or with yolks, for chocolate. Use 
your judgemnt in adding flour. This recipe I have had in use 
for fifteen years, and while inexpensive, it is nice enough for 
most any occasion. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. M.J. Woodworlh. 

One pound of flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound but- 
ter, the whites of sixteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with 
bitter almond. Elegant. 

"Jiicharda^ Queen,*' aa it makes Cake very Delicate and lAght. 



180 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

Mrs. A. L. Hutchinson. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, butter the size of an egg, two- 
thirds cup milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream-tartar, half 
of soda, a little nutmeg. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Mrs. A. P. Wiglitman. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, one egg, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon baking powder, 
pinch of salt, flavor to taste; put in the baking powder and run 
through a seive. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

One cup sugar, three eggs beaten well together, butter the size 
of an egg, one cup flour, one teaspoon cream-tartar mixed with 
flour, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in eight teaspoons of wa- 
ter. Season to taste. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. M. J. Woodworth. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one cup sugar, two 
teaspoons baking powder, three tablespoons water, bake in jelly 
cake pans, making four cakes ; cream, one pint milk, one egg, 
one and one-half tablespoons corn starch, two tablespoons sugar ; 
flavor when cool. Very nice. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. James Wadsworth, Hyde Park. 

Beat five eggs thoroughly, add two cups sugar, two tablespoons 
cream, two cups flour in which has been mixed one and one-half 
teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, bake in five jelly tins, 
leaving about one-sixth of the batter, to this add one cup of 

The excellence of the above receipts can only bs realized by 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 181 



milk, also lemon or vanilla; boil till it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly; then spread it over the cakes as they are laid together. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, two- 
thirds cup corn starch and fill it up with flour, two cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder, whites of seven eggs. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

M. W. Lazcar. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, whites seven 
eggs, one cup corn starch, two cups flour, yolk of one egg, one 
teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, (or three teaspoons bakmg 
powder). Mix flour, starch and cream tartar together ; flavor 
with almond. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. H. E. Sargent. 

One and a half cups sugar, one and a half of flour, one-half of 
butter, one-half of corn starch, one-half of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon al- 
mond flavoring, whites of six eggs. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. P. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half of 
sour milk, one-half teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half cup corn starch ; the whites of six eggs put in the last 
thing. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Hobbs. 

Whites of seven eggs, one cup corn starch, two of flour, one 
of butter, one of sweet milk, two of sugar, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one teaspoon soda. 

Using'J^ Richards' Queen" as it makes Cake truly elegant. 
13 



182 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Lucy D. Fake. 

One cup white sugar and one-half cup butter beaten together, 
one-half cup corn starch, the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, one cup milk, one cup flour, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, one-half of soda. Flavor with lemon. 

LADY CAKE. 

Mrs. Evving. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound flour, 
whites of sixteen eggs, one and one-half teaspoons soda, one 
and one-half teaspoons cream-tartar. Rub butter and sugar to- 
gether, then stir the whites of eggs intO it. Sift the flour, three 
times with cream-tartar and soda in it, and add lastly. 

LADY CAKE. 

H. M. H, 

One and one-half pounds sugar, one pound flour, nine ounces 
butter, two lemons, grate rinds and squeeze the juice, whites of 
twenty-one eggs. 

LADY CAKE. 

One cup boiled milk, one-half cup butter, two cups powdered 
sugar, three cups flour, one even teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda, whites of two eggs; flavor with bitter allnond. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. H. M. Buell. 

Four cups of flour, three cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
teaspoon cream-tartar, rubbed into the flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one cup of milk, four eggs, one ^teaspoon of 
essence of lemon. 

Why should the patience of ladies be tried when a child can 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 183 



LEMON CAKE. 

Lake Forest, 111. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, five eggs, 
four cups flour. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the 
eggs separately, the whites to a stiff froth, and dissolve a little 
soda in the milk. Mix all together ; sift the flour and put in by- 
degrees, and add the juice and grated rind of a fresh lemon. 
This cake is delicious. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. H. B. Hurd. 

Five cups flour, one cup butter, three cups sugar, one cup 

cream, five eggs, one teaspoon saleratus and the peel and juice 

of two lemons. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. Elmendorf. 

Three cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, four 
cups flour, five eggs, (whites beaten separately,) and add last, one 
teaspoon cream-tartar, one teaspoon soda, the grated peel and 

juice of one lemon. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. J. O. Knapp. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, rub them to a cream; stir 
into this the yolks of five eggs well beaten, one cup of milk, one 
teaspoon of saleratus, juice and grated peel of one lemon, and 
the whites of five eggs ; sift in lightly four cups of flour, bake in 
shallow pans one-half hour. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

One cup of butter and three cups of powdered sugar, rubbed 
to a cream ; add five well beaten eggs, one small or even tea- 
spoon of soda, in one cup of sweet milk, the juice and grated 
yellow of one lemon ; stir in as light as possible four cups of 
flour. Bake in two tin sheets. Is improved by icing. 



Always make delicate and light cake with "Sicharde' Queen f^* 



184 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups butter, six cups flour, one cup 
molasses, one cup milk, six eggs, one glass brandy, two teaspoons 
cream-tartar, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cloves, one nut- 
meg, two pounds raisins. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. P. Merriman. 

Four and one-half cofiee cups of sifted flour, three full cups 
sugar, one and one-half cups butter, one teacup cream or milk, 
one teaspoon saleratus, four eggs, one tablespoon cloves, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon nutmeg, one pound fruit 
and citron. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. C. Mooar. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
raisins, two-thirds cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two eggs, 
one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, cinnamon, 
nutmegs and cloves to suit taste. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Fanny L., Evanston. 

One and one-half pounds flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths 
pound butter, seven eggs, one gill milk, one-half teaspoon saler- 
atus, one pound currants. 

BERRY CAKE. 

Fanny L. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cups butter, two eggs, one cup 
molasses, two cups milk, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon 
saleratus, a little salt, stiffen with flour, one quart berries. 

We advise you to use ^'Bichards' Queen Baking Powder " 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 186 



POOR MAN'S CAKE. 

Fanny L. 

Two cups raised dough, one egg, one-half cup molasses, one 
cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one teaspoon soda; one cup 
raisins, flour to stiffen. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. H. Brown. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
liquid coffee, five and one-half cups flour, five eggs, one pound 
raisins, one pound currants, one spoonful each of cloves, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg, three teaspoons baking powder or one of soda. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 

One cup butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, one of strong 
coffee, five of flour, one pound of raisins, one teaspoon of soda, 
one of cinnamon, one of allspice, one-half a nutmeg, three eggs, 
(it can be made with one or two.) Sift the soda in molasses. 
Excellent. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Guthrie. 

One and one-half cups of liquid coffee, one and one-half of 
molasses, one and one-half of sugar, one of butter, two teaspoons 
of soda, flour to thicken; cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg; fruit, 
if desired. 

PUFF CAKE. 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

One cup brown sugar, one half of butter, two eggs, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two of Graham flour, (sifted), one-half teaspoon 
soda, one of cream tartar, or two teaspoons of baking powder, 
one cup of raisins. 



In the above receipts, if you wish to realise their excellence. 



186 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

C. A. Tinkham. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, five eggs, (leaving out the whites 
of two,) one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half 
of soda, both dissolved in the milk, three and one-half cups of 
flour, scant measure. For frosting : Take the whites of the 
two eggs, one and one-half cups of powdered sugar, six large 
tablespoons grated chocolate ; frost while the cake is hot. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. Gilbert, Evanston. 

White Part. — One cup white pulverized sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, two and 
one-half cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, or 
one teaspoon cream-tartar and one-half teaspoon soda; stir but- 
ter and sugar together to a cream, and beat whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth, which are to be added the last of all of the ingredi- 
ents, with the half cup of flour, which must contain the baking 
powder well mixed in the flour ; season to taste. This is a very- 
good recipe for delicate cake, also. 

Dark Part. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half cup sour milk, two and one-half cups flour, one level 
teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk and in the molasses, yolks 
of four eggs and one-half cup butter, to be rubbed well together 
with the sugar ; add one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, allspice and 
cloves. 

Either of these make good cake used separately, or well mixed 
to represent marble. 

COCHINEAL MARBLE CAKE. 

Miss Anne Yocum, Cairo, 111. 

One cup butter, three cups pulverized sugar, five cups flour, 
one cup water, ten eggs, (whites only,) three teaspoons yeast 
powder sifted with flour; cream the butter and sugar by stirring 



Use "Jilchards^ Queen Baking Powder" in the place of Cream 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 187 



together; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and gradually 
add all together. Before beginning the cake, put a small tea- 
spoon of cochineal to soak in two tablespoons of hot water ; 
bruise it with a spoon, and strain through a piece of swiss mus- 
lin into three-fourths teacup of the cake batter, and as you pour 
the batter into the cake tin, marble with the red dough. A little 
practice will produce very satisfactory results. 



MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Frances M. Thatcher. 

One-half cup of sour cream, one-half cup butter, one cup white 
sugar, the whites of five eggs, two-thirds teaspoon soda ; prepare 
another mixture, except substituting dark sugar for white, and 
the yolks instead of the whites ; fill a tin with alternate layers of 
each and bake. 

LEOPARD CAKE. 

Mrs. P. 

For Dark Part. — One cup brown sugar, one-half of molas- 
ses, one-half of strong coffee, three-fourths of butter, three table- 
spoons sweet milk, one-fourth of soda, one-half of cream tartar, 
one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg, two tablespoons 
of brandy. 

For Light Part. — Two-thirds of a cup butter, one of white 
sugar, three tablespoons sweet milk, one of lemon essence, one- 
fourth of soda, one-half of cream tartar, the whites of four eggs. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Hunt. 

One cup milk, two of sugar, one of butter, three of flour, four 
eggs, one and one-half teaspoons yeast powder, one and one-half 
teacups sour cream beaten with one coffee cup sugar, one pound 
almonds chopped fine. 

Tartar and Soda, Sour Milk and Soda, or other Baking Powder. 



• 



188 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Wicker. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half of butter, two 
of flour, three and one-fourths of sweet milk, the whites of four 
eggs, three teaspoons baking powder ; bake in jelly tins. Grate 
one cocoanut, beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, adding a 
little sugar, and two-thirds of the cocoanut put between the 
layers; frost the top, and carefully throw on the remainder of 
the cocoanut. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Hobbs. 

One cup meats, (broken,) one and one-half of sugar, one-half 
of butter, two of flour, three-fourths of sweet milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder, the whites of four eggs well beaten; add the 
meats last. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Ella J. Roe. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one of butter, one of chopped 
hickory-nuts, three-fourths of sweet milk ; add last, two cups of 
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder sifted together. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. C. Stratton, Evanston. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, one cup butter, one cup new milk, 
four cups sifted flour, (winter wheat flour,) white of eight eggs, 
one and one-half cups hickory-nut meats, one tablespoon vanil- 
la, three heaping teaspoons baking powder ; put the baking pow- 
der into the flour, and stir well before using, beat and add the 
eggs the last; bake slowly one hour. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Nellie Gould. 
Not quite a cup of butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three- 
fourths cup sweet milk, three cups flour, three teaspoons baking 
powder, white of four eggs, one cup hickory-nuts. 



AU leading Hotels of Chicago (22) are uaing Bichards' Queen 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 189 



NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Taylor, Fort Wayne. 

Two and a half cups sugar, one of butter, three and a half of 
flour; one of sweet milk, five eggs, one pound stoned raisins, 
one-half pound of citron, one-half of a lemon peel, one-half of an 
orange peel, one pint hickory-nut meats, one nutmeg, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

WHITE CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewing. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, four of flour, one of sweet 
cream, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the cream, two teaspoons 
cream tartar mixed through the flour, whites of eight eggs. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Southern Lady's Recipe. 

Two cups butter, three of sugar, one of sour milk, five cups 
flour, eight eggs, one teaspoon soda, one-half nutmeg; fruit. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Mrs. H. F. Waite. 

Five eggs, our cups sifted flour, two and one-half of sugar, 
one of butter, one of milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of 
soda. Beat sugar, butter and yolks of eggs a long time, then 
add milk and part of the flour ; with the rest of flour add the 
whites, beaten very light; raisins or citrons, if desired. 

VANILLA CAKE. 

A. E. W. 

One-half cup of butter stirred into one cup of sugar till it is 
like cream, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons 
vanilla; bake or tins, dropping. 

Baking Powder, as articles made with this are very delicate. 



190 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

REBECCA'S PLAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. G. H. L. 

One cup sugar, two of flour, one-half of butter, one-half of 
sour milk, one egg, one teaspoon saleratus. One loaf. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Harriet N. Jenks. 

One cup of Indian meal sifted, one of flour, one of sugar, one 
teaspoon soda, about a pint of sour milk, teaspoon full of salt, 
one egg, piece of butter size of a common egg. Wholesome for 
children. 

EXCELLENT CAKE. 

Harriet N. Jenks. 

One pound of sugar, two pounds of flour, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, one-half cup ginger, eight eggs. Rub a little 
melted butter over the cake when hot, and sift sugar over it. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

One and a harlf cups sugar and one-half of butter beaten togeth- 
er, one egg, one cup milk, two and a half of flour, two and a half 
teaspoons of baking powder. This cake should have icing of 
some kind between, chocolate for example. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 

Jennie Simons. 

Three cups flour, two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cream-tartar; stir butter and sugar together, add the yolks of 
the eggs, then the flour, soda and cream-tartar together, and the 
•whites of the eggs well beaten, the last thing. 



When you have Company, and wish elegant Cake, use 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 191 



TKA CAKE. 

Mrs. C. S. Horsman, Rockford, 111. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one cup of 
milk, the whites of five eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

Mrs. Gen. N. J. T. Dana. 

Take sponge cake and stick it full of almonds which have 
been blanched; turn gver it as much white wine as it will ab- 
sorb ; put it in a deep dish or glass bowl, and let it stand one 
hour, then pour over it as much soft custard as the dish will 
hold. Let it stand two or three hours. Very simple and very 
nice. 

TEMPERANCE CAKE. 

Mattie Winslow, Aurora, 111. 

Two and a half cups flour, one of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
one egg, one tablespoon melted butter, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bake quickly. 



CHARITY CAKE, 

Marian Ely. 

One cup sugar, one egg, butter size of an egg, stir to a cream ; 
one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one of soda. 

RUNAWAY CAKE. 

Mattie Winslow, Aurpra, 111. 

One egg, one teaspoon sugar, two tablespoons butter, one cup 
milk, two teaspoons cream-tartar, one teaspoon soda, flour to 
make a little thicker than griddle cakes. This is very nice eaten 
hot with butter for breakfast and tea. 

"Hichards^ Queen," as it makes Cake very Delicate and Light. 



192 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SURPRISE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. G. Hubbell, Shabbona Station, 111. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream-tartar mixed in 
two cups of flour. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

Mrs, Lamkin. 

Four eggs, one tumbler sugar, one tumbler butter, one-half 
tumbler molasses, one-third tumbler milk, one teaspoon salera- 
tus; spices to taste; one-half pound raisins, one-fourth pound 
currants. Bake one and one-fourth hours in a slow oven. 

ADAMS' CAKE. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four eggs, one and one- 
eighth cups flour, very little soda. Very nice. 

CLAY CAKE. 

Mrs. Ada Sturtevant. 

One cup butter, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, four cups flour, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of 
seven, two spoons cream-tartar, one spoon soda, one spoon of 
the extract of lemon ; stir the butter and sugar till it looks like 
cream ; beat the yolks separately and well, the whites to a stiff 
froth, adding the whites and flour last, and beat all very thor- 
oughly. This will make two cakes. If you lack time, and wish 
variety, by changing the flavoring and adding fruit to one, you 
will have two cakes entirely unlike, and very good. 

HARRISON CAKE. 

Mrs. B. F. Adams. 

One and one-half cups butter, one cup sugar, one cup mo- 
lasses, one cup sour milk, four eggs, one teaspoon soda, flour to 
make as thick as pound cake ; fruit and spice. 



The excellence of the above receipts can only be realized by 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 193 



HARRISON CAKE. 

Mrs. T. W. Anderson. 

Five cups flour, two and and-half cups molasses, one and one- 
half cups butter, two pounds raisins, eight eggs, one cup wine or 
milk, one and one-half teaspoons saleratus, several kinds spices; 
bake in deep pans three hours. 

LINCOLN CAKE. 

Mrs. £. H. Dennison, Highland Park. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two eggs well beaten, 
one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons cream-tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, three cups flour. 

CORK CAKE. 

Mrs. James Wadsworth. 

Four eggs, three cups sugar, two cups butter, one cup milk, 
five cups flour, one teaspoon soda. 

WILMINGTON CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Browne. 

One cup butter, one of cream, three of sugar, four of flour, 
five eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon of soda. 

EVANSTON CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Browne. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, six eggs, (whites beaten sep- 
arately,) one cup butter, one cup milk, two teaspoons of baking 
powder ; put in the flour and essence to the taste. 

PARADISE CAKE. 

li. S. Lewis. 

Three eggs, two and one-half cups sugar, one of butter, one 
and one-half sweet milk, small teaspoon soda, four cups flour, 
one pound raisins. 



Using "JRichards' Queeri'^ an it makes Cake truly elegant. 



194 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

KENTUCKY CAKE. 

Mrs. C. T. Tupper. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half of butter, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one of soda, one cup sweet milk, two and a half 
of flour, 

BORDENTOWN CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. M. L. 

Four cups flour, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoon tartaric acid, one- 
half teaspoon soda; beat together butter and sugar, add a por- 
tion of flour, next the eggs, well beaten, then more flour, next 
the milk and remainder of flour, the powders dissolved separately 
in a little water ; stir in well and bake immediately. 

IDLE WILD. 

Fannie L., Evanston. 

Two cups flour, one cup Indian meal, one teaspoon cream- 
tartar, one-half teaspoon saleratus, one cup sugar, piece butter 
size of an egg, one coffeecup milk or water, one or two eggs; 
make stifi" as cake. 

RIVER FOREST CAKE. 

Mrs. D. W. Thatcher. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet .milk, two cups flour, two eggs, two spoons baking 
powder ; if wanted white, use the whites of four eggs beaten to 
a froth. 

NEWPORT TEA-CAKE. 

Mrs. L. J. Tilton. 

One pint flour, three eggs, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, a small cup 
milk, and the same of sugar. Dissolve the cream-tartar in the 

All Leetding Hotels of Chicago (22) are using Richards' Queen 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 195 



milk, melt the butter and beat it thoroughly with the eggs and 
sugar ; mix this with part of the flour, and half the milk ; lastly, 
dissolve the soda in the half cup of milk, and while effervescing 
stir in quickly with the remaining flour. Bake in a bread pan 
twenty minutes or half an hour. The oven should be decided- 
ly hot to begin with, and gradually cooled off. 

SODA CAKE. 

Mrs. J. C. Knapp. 

One pound flour, six ounces butter, rubbed well into the flour,, 
one-half pound currants, and six ounces sugar, all mixed well 
together; three eggs beaten with one cup of milk, mix it well 
with the eggs and milk, then add one teaspoon of soda; beat 
that well in with a spoon, put it in your pan and bake two hours 
in a bread oven. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. Russell. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
nutmeg, flour, yolks of six eggs. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Russell. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream-tartar, 
whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, and flour. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. L. Bradley. 

Take yolks of twelve eggs, five cups sifted flour, three cups 
white powdered sugar, one cup butter, one and a half cups of 
cream or sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar and half a tea- 
spoon of soda. 

Baking Powder, ae articles made loith this are very delicate. 



196 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. L, Bradley. 

Take whites of one dozen eggs, five cups flour, three cups 
powdered sugar, one cup butter, one cup cream or sweet milk, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, half a teaspoon soda. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

One coffee cup of sugar, one-half of butter, two-thirds of sweet 
milk, two of flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half of soda. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Monroe Heath. 

Half pound sugar, half pound flour, one-fourth to one-eighth 
pound of butter, whites of seven eggs ; beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream ; add the eggs, beaten to a stiff" froth ; rub a teaspoon 
of baking powder into the flour and stir it into the mixture; 
flavor with vanilla or almond water. Bake in flat pans, and ice. 

FRENCH SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Wadsworth, Hyde Park. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, one of milk, three of flour, two 
tablespoons butter, two teaspoons baking powder. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. G. Morgan. 

Break two large eggs into a teacup and fill it with sweet cream j 
add one cup white sugar, a little salt, and put in a pan; add two 
cups of sifted flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one of lemon 
essence ; put in a square baking tin and bake fifteen minutes. 



^'Rieharda^ Queen*^ makes Cake very Delicate and Light. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 197 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. L. H. Smith. 

One tumbler sifted flour, one and one-half of powdered sugar, 
one heaping teaspoon cream tartar, and a little salt; sift alto- 
gether into a dish ; beat the whites of ten fresh eggs, and stir 
(not beat) very carefully into the flour and sugar until well 
mixed. Bake with great care in a moderaWoven, in one good- 
sized round tin, with an opening in the centre; Flavor with ex- 
tract lemon, and put it in with the whites of the eggs. This is 
an excellent cake. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Dr. Evarts. 

Whites of ten eggs, a tumbler and a half pulverized sugar, one 
of flour, one heaping teaspoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt; put 
all in a sieve and sift twice ; then stir in lightly the eggs beaten 
to a stifi" froth. Flavor with vanilla or rose. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Leonore Tryon and Mrs. D. W. Thatcher. 

The whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff* froth, one and one- 
half tumblers of sugar, one tumbler of flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar rubbed in the flour ; flavor with lemon ; stir as lightly as 
possible. 

MRS. DREW'S SPONGE CAKE. 

From Toledo Home Cook Book. 

Two cups sugar, one cup of flour, four eggs, one and one-half 
teaspoons of baking powder, pinch of salt, rind and juice of one 
lemon. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. R. M. Patrick, Marengo, 111. 

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, one half a cup of cream, 
two eggs, one-half a teaspoon of cream of tartar, one-fourth of 
soda. 



Duryeas' Satin Olo»8 Starch gives a perfect flniah to^JLdnen. 
14 



198 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



« 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Sanford. 



The whites of ten eggs, one-half pound powdered sugar, three 
ounces flour, two teaspoons essence of lemon, salt, one teaspoon 
cream-tartar; mix the flour, sugar and cream-tartar together, and 
add to the beaten whites. This mafees one large loaf. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

M, "Wheeler. 

* Whites of ten eggs, one tumbler of flour, one teaspoon pulver- 
ized sugar, one teaspoon cream-tartar in the flour and sift it; a 
very little salt. 

DELICATE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Preston. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup flour, whites of ten eggs, 
one teaspoon cream-tartar, one teaspoon salt. Sift the cream- 
tartar and salt with the sugar. Then add the eggs, and lastly 
the flour, stirring very lightly. 

Icing for the Above. — White of one egg, two-thirds teacup 
powdered sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, three tablespoons grated 
chocolate spread smoothly upon the surface of the cake. No 
soda to be used. 

TELE(?RAPH SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. F. E. Stearns. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, and two-thirds cup water. 

BERWICH SPONGE CAKE. 

Fannie L. 

Beat six eggs two minutes, (yolks and whites together); add 
three cups sugar and beat five minutes ; two cups flour and one 
teaspoon cream-tartar and beat two minutes; add one cup cold 



Duryeaa' Unproved Corn Starch received the Medal at the Grand 



St 



VALUABLE RECirKS?^^^^^ 199 



water with one-half teaspoon of saleratus djssdWWfflnt, and beat 
one minute ; add the grated rind and half me juice of a lemon, 
a little salt and two more cups of flour, and beat another minute, 
observing the time exactly. ^B^^V rather^eei)«qj|fepans. Ex- 
tra(t>of lemon will answer. ^^^ ^W^ 



P 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. D. G. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, four eggs, one-half cup cold 
water, two teaspoons U^jking powder, and a little salt. 

SPONGE CAKm 

Mrs.L. J. Tilton. 

^^'eight of twelve eggs in sugar, and of seven eggs in flour, 
beat yolks and sugar together, and the whites separately very 
light, gradually add beaten whites to the yolks and sugar ; stir in 
the flour quickly and ^noothly, and bake immediately. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Sarah I. Parrish. 

Thirteen eggs, one pound and one-half of sugar, one pound 
flour, essence of lemon ; stir the yolks of the eggs with the su- 
gar, until very light ; then add the whites of the eggs after they 
are beaten to a stiff" froth ; stir lightly together, and add the flour 
just before it is to be put into the oven. 

NELLY'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, nine eggs; beat the yolks a 
sugar fifteen minutes, then add whites already beaten, beat ten 
minutes ; stir in flour lightly ; put in oven (pretty hot) as soon as 
possible. 




O 



^position in Paris, in 1887, for "Perfection of Preparation,.^* 



200 "rrfD HOME CQOK BOOK. 

Dk SPONGE CAKE. 

C. T. Stevens. 



i 



Two cups white sugaf, on^^mbutter, three cups flour, four 
"^ggs, ^i^Jbwi^oon ^da disd^^^B half a cup of sweet milk, 



iil^^^Bcr 
11 ^^H^^V^ 




two teaspooilt «i;^m-Urtar iil^^^Hcr. This is very nice for 
jelly cake, if not preferred in 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Banks. ' ' 

Take four eggs, two cups sugar; beat the eggs and sugar well 
together; two coffeecups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking 
powder; two-thirds cuj|^of boiling water; lemon to flavor; add 
the water last. Pour into a pan, place in a well heated oven. 
This will seem very thin, but will come from the oven a most 
delightful cake. 

SPQNGE CAKE. 

ri. M. Brewer. 

Twelve eggs, the weights of the eggs in powdered sugar, and 
the weight of six eggs in flour; separate the yolks from the 
whites, beating yolks and sugar, and adding the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon ; then beat the whites to a stiff" froth and add 
to the beaten yolks and sugar ; lastly, put one small teaspoon of 
cream tartar into the weighed flour, and stir in thoroughly with 
the other ingredients. Bake quickly. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. B. Stubbs. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, six eggs, one teaspoon salt, 
ne tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice, four tablespoons water. 

MRS. WILDER'S SPONGE GINGER BREAD. 

In two cups molasses, sift two teaspoons soda and a dessert 
spoon ginger. Stir to a ere un, then add four well beaten eggs, 

DuryeaP Scttin Oloaa Starch is the beat and mosf economidfU. 



« 




VALUABLE liECl^^^^^ 201 



one cup butter meWd, one cup sour n^lk inwhftif is dissolved 
one teaspoon soda ; mix all together, theivadd flour to the con- 
sistency of pound cake. ..'^wo4oaves. 

SOFT GINGER B HE AD. 

Mrs. D. 
One quart flour, one-half cup butter, one tablespoon ginger, 
one teaspoon saleratus put into the dry flour with one cup boil- 
ing water; beat one egg and stir in. If not soft enough, add a 
little more water. It is very nice. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

* Mss. Blaikie. ^ 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, one of milk, tw6 of molasses, 
four of flour, five eggs, one tablespoon of strong ground cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon of ground cloves, sufficiently strong gin- 
ger to suit the taste, three ttjaspoons baking powder mixed with 
the flour. Be careful that the oven is not so hot as to burn be- 
fore baking through. 

gingp:r bread. 

" Mrs. Annie Marble- 
One and a half cups sour milk, two cups molasses, one cup 
melted butter, one and a half teaspoon soda, five teaspoons gin- 
ger; flour enough to thicken. 

SOFT ginger bread. 

Mrs. N. C. Houghton. 

One-half cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup milk, one egg, 
one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda. 

GINGER I>READ. 

Mrs. H. M. Kidder, Evanston. * 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, one . 
sour milk, five cups flour, three eggs, half teaspoon ginger, 1 

Durifean Improved Com St< , ,-/je ^g^^ 



• 



• 



.:-^' 




202 ^^^^^knoMK COOK book. 



•teaspoon cinnamon, oneiteaspoon soda; miFbutter and sugar to 
a cream; add molasses, eggs and spices, flour, and some milk; 
last, soda dissolved in warm water. 

THIN GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, six cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon ginger ; roll out on tin sheets 
very thin, mark with a crimped roller and bake ; then cut into 
strips. 

HARD GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 

One pound lard, one-half pound butter, beaten to a cream, 
one and one-half pounds brown sugar, three pints of West India 
molasses, ginger, cinnamon, allspice and cloves, enough flour to 
make a stiff" dough ; roll out very thin, and cut with a cutter. 

MRS. HAMILTON'S GINGER BREAD. 

Mattie M. Winslow, Aurora, 111. 

Two eggs, one cup molasses, one cup sour cream, two table- 
spoons ginger, one teaspoon soda. Stir quite thin. 



LA.^^EI^ CAIi:ES. 



GENTLEMAN'S FAVORITE. 

Miss Anna M. Whitman, Indianapolis, Ind. 

ven eggs beaten separately, one-half cup butter, two cups 
ite sugar, two cups flour, two tablespoons baking powder, two 
tablespoons water, one-half teaspoon salt; bake in jelly cake 
pans in a quick oven. The jelly for the cake — One egg, a cup 



^hitt 



% 



Duryeas^ Sc" "^'i-roh /•« ihp whitpnt. therefai^ the pure^- 



# 






VALUABLE RKCIPBK*- .■ 203 



of sugar, three grated apples and one lemon ; stir till it boils and 
becomes thick, let it cool before putting between the layers. 

IMPROMPTU JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. P. B. Brown. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs; 
stir the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the yolks of the 
eggs, and lastly the beaten whites and flour. Have ready the 
jelly, made as follows : One grated apple, the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, one cup sugar and one egg; boil until it Jel- 
lies, stirring constantly ; cool before using. Bake your cake in 
jelly cake pans, or in thin layers, putting the jelly between each 
layer, as in ordinary jelly cake. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. John Edwards. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half of 
sweet milk, two and one-half of flour, three eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, and add two teaspoons baking powder. 

The Jelly. — One cup of sugar, one egg, grate the rind and 
use the juice of one lemon, one tablespoon of water, one tea- 
spoon of flour; put your dish in a kettle of boiling water, and 
let it come to a boil ; have your cake ready and put it together. 

LEMON JELLY CAKEJ. 

Miss Bell Cassette. 

Six tablespoons melted butter, two cups sugar, two and a half 
cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, six eggs, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. 

Jelly. — The grate^ rind and juice of three lemons, one pound 
sugar, one-third cup of butter. Beat all together and scald till 
thick as boiled custard. This jelly is sufficient for two cakes. 



^^Duryeas' Satin Gloss Starch »'« the strongenf  mi >/i'- whitest. 



204 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McPherson. 

One" teaspoon of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 

The Jelly. — Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, yolks of three eggs. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. W. G. Morgan. 

Prepare and grate three large apples, (Greenings preferred)^ 
the juice and rind of a lemon, half a cup of sugar, one egg well 
beaten ; put the ingredients together in a tin basin ; simmer until 
cooked, with constant stirring ; set to cool until the cake is ready. 
Take three eggs, stir whites artd yolks separately. To a cup 
and a half of white sugar, add half a cup sweet milk and a piece 
of butter the size of an egg ; mix butter and sugar together, four 
cups of flour and three teaspoons of baking powder; divide in 
four equal parts, and put in baking tins or jelly pans; use the 
jelly as in other cases, while the cake is hot. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Monroe Frank. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter the size of 
an egg, two cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder. 

The Jelly. — Two large apples grated, one cup sugar, one 
egg, one grated rind of lemon and juice. Boil three minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Monroe Frank. 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, four cups flour, four eggs, 
three teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder, one cup sweet milk. 

F< X Frosting. — One-half cake Baker's chocolate, one-half 
cup sugar, (pulverized ;) enough hot water to cover; set in a pan 
of boiling water over the fire three minutes. When cold, add 
one-half teaspoon vanilla. Spread the same as for jelly cake. 

Duryeaa' Ilnproved Corn Starch, the '* Perfection of 



VALUABLE RECIPKS. 20& 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Julia French, Evanston. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, six eggs, one-half 
cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 

Custard. — Whites of five eggs beaten stiff, two cups sugar^ 
two teaspoons vanilla, one-eighth cake of chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Julia French. 

Six eggs, four cups sugar, one cup butter, two cups milk, six 
cups flour, five teaspoons baking powder. 

Custard. — One tablespoon of corn starch; wet and stir into a 
teacup of boiling milk; a large cup of brown sugar, one-fourth 
cake chocolate, piece of butter the size of an egg, two teaspoons 
vanilla, pinch of salt; boil altogether three or four minutes. This^ 
makes two loaves of four layers each. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. John Edwards, Rockford. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, whites of sevtn ii^c;-' 
well beaten, two-thirds cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one cup 
corn starch, two teaspoons baking powder; bake in jelly cake 
tins. 

Frosting. — Whites of three eggs and some sugar beaten to- 
gether — not quite as stifl" as for frosting ; spread over the cake^ 
add some grated cocanut, then put your cakes together ; put co- 
coanut or frosting for the top. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. C. E. Cheney. 

Six eggs, six cups flour, three cups sugar, two cups butter, one 
cup butter, one cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder ; flavor 
with lemon. Frost thickly with chocolate, cocoanut, or plaia 
white icing. Bake in three loaves. 



Preparation,'^— Grand Exposition, Paris, 1867. 



206 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. McDowell. 

Two cups sugar, two of butter, three of flour, three-fourths of 
inilk, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons of 
<:ream tartar. 

YELLOW MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Nellie Spencer. 

Yolks of ten eggs, one cup butter, two of sugar, one of milk, 
three of flour, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Earle, Peoria. 

Two cups sugar, one-half of butter, three-fourths of milk, three 
cups flour, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons baking powder. 

Icing. — Whites of four eggs, one pound sugar; put sugar dis- 
solved in three-fourths cup water upon the stove, and boil till 
ready to turn, then pour on egg and flour with two teaspoons 
vanilla and one of lemon syrup. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN OR COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Hill. 

Two and two-thirds cups of sugar, one cup butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, four cups flour, whites of six eggs, one teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in milk, two teaspoons cream tartar in flour. 
Bake in thin cakes, spread frosting between like jelly cake; the 
whites of five eggs will ice it all. Use one grated cocoanut in 
the frosting for cocoanut cake. 

COCOANUT MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

One cup butter three cups sugar, one cup milk, three and a half 
■cups flour, whites of ten eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 

Duryeas'' Satin Gloss Starch gives the best 



valuablp: recipes. 207 



half teaspoon soda, essence of almond ; bake in sheets. Make 
an icing of the whites of three eggs and one pound sugar; ice 
each sheet, and sprinkle one grated cocoanut lightly over all. 



COCOANUT MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One cup flour, one of sweet milk, two of sugar, three of flour, 
four eggs, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, bake in three 
or four layers. Grate one cocoanut; take the juice of two lem- 
ons, (or less, if they are large and juicy), one cup fine sugar, 
the white of one egg, well beaten ; set all on the fire in an earth- 
en dish, and heat until the sugar is well dissolved, then spread 
on the cake; enough of the cocoanut should be reserved to 
spread thickly over the top layer. Excellent, if nicely made. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. M. G. Hubbell, Shabbona, 111. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup of milk, one-half cup 
butter, two cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder. 

Frosting. — Whites of two eggs, eight teaspoons sugar, flavor 
to suit. Bake the same as jelly cake ; spread a thin layer of 
frosting, sprinkled with prepared cocoanut, and frost the top 
and thickly sprinkle with the cocoanut. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Harry Pearsons, Evanston. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of four eggs, two 
cups flour, flavor to taste, one teaspoon baking powder, one-half 
cup sweet milk ; yolks the same, making two layers of the whites, 
and two of the yolks. Prepare the cocoanut as for the other 
cakes. ' 

Fin i ah, and is (he easiest to xise. 



208 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two 
and one-half cups flour, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoon of 
cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda; mix butter and sugar to a 
cream ; mix other ingredients alternately, putting in soda last ; 
bake in layers like jelly cake ; spread each layer with soft frost- 
ing and add blanched split almonds about an inch apart on each 
layer. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, six tablespoons melted butter, six eggs, 
beaten separately, half cup milk, three cups flour, two table- 
spoons baking powder. 

Custard for the Cake. — Three-fourths pint of milk, scald, 
sweeten, and stir in three beaten eggs ; then let cool ; blanch a 
pound of almonds and chop or pound ; then stir into the cold 
custard, and spread between the layers just before eating; flavor 
the custard with vanilla for custard cake. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. H. W. Loomis, Rockford, 111. 

One pound of butter, sugar and flour, the whites of twelve 
eggs and yolks of seven. 

Cream. — One pint of sweet cream, one pound soft almonds, 
whites of four eggs ; beat to a froth with four tablespoons of 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten separately with the same 
quantity of sugar; chop the almonds and add the flavoring al- 
monds the last thing. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Mrs. Booth. 

One cup milk, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four. eggs, one- 
half cup butter, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half of soda. 

Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch, ^^Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 209 



Frosting. — One teacup sour cream well beaten, one coffe^ 
cup sugar, one cup blanched almonds. Bake the cake in jelly 
pans, make it in layers, and put the above frosting between each 
layer when baked. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 

One pint of water, one-h'alf pound butter, three-fourths pound 
flour, ten eggs; boil the butter and water together; stir in the 
flour when boiling ; when cool, add the eggs, and soda the size 
of a pea; drop by the spoonful on a buttered baking pan, leav- 
ing space so that the cakes will not touch when risen. Bake in 
a veiy quick oven about ten minutes. When cold, make an in- 
cision at the side and fill with the following cream : Six gills of 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, three cups sugar, six eggs; 
beat the flour, sugar and eggs together and stir into the milk 
while boiling. Flavor with the rind of a lemon. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

Mrs. James P. Clarke. 

Two cups sugar, six tablespoons melted butter, six eggs beaten 
separately, two and one-half cups flour, one-half cup milk, one 
teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream-tartar. 

Custard for the Same. — One-half pint milk, two eggs, 
sweeten to taste, flavor with vanilla ; bake on pie plates, and put 
custard between as jelly cake. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

Mrs. Downs. 

Six eggs less one white, two cups sugar, six tablespoons melt- 
ed butter, two and one-half cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
vanilla. 

Custard. — One pint milk, three eggs, three large tablespoons 
sugar, three teaspoons vanilla. Very nice. 

Excellent for Food'^ — London Exposition, 1862. 



210 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE CAKE. /; 

Mrs. H. W. Loomis, Rockford. 

Two teaspoons baking powder, three cups flour, one and one- 
half cups sugar, four eggs, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk. 

Use for Frosting — The whites of three eggs'anci'sugar, the 
juice of one orange, also the peel grated. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Yolks of five eggs, whites &f four beaten separately, two cups 
of sugar, two of flour, one-half cup of cold water, the juice and 
grated rind of one large orange, and the usual quantity of bak- 
ing powder, beat the white of the remaining egg to a stiff froth, 
with the juice and rind of another orange, and one cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Put this between the layers, and put it on the top. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. D. S. Covert. 

Two cups sugar, two of flour, one-half of cold water, yolks of 
five eggs, whites of three eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder, 
grated rind and juice of one orange; bake in jelly tins. 

Dressing. — Whftes of two eggs beaten stiff, grated rind and 
juice of one orange, made stiff" with pulverized sugar, and spread 
between^s jelly cake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. E. Sargent. 

One tumbler sugar, two tumblers flour, one-half tumbler milk, 
two eggs, two spoons baking powder, five tumblers melted butter. 

Frosting. — Whites three eggs, and juice and grated rind of 
one orange, with sufficient powdered sugar to make it like any 
frosting. Bake the cake in jelly cake tins, and put the frosting 
between the layers. 



Duryeas' Starchy the Prize Medal Starch of the world. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 211 



, ORANGE CAKE. 

'• Mrs. J. p. L. Harvey. 

Two cups flour, two cups pulverized sugar, one-half cup cold 
water, yolks five eggs and whites of two, juice and rind of one 
orange, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bakp 
in four long tins. 

Frosting. — Beat the whites of two eggs stiff; add the juice 
and rind of one orange; then add sugar to the thickness of jel- 
ly; put this between the loaves, and frost the top with the same- 
frosting. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. W. Cheever, Ottawa, 111. 

Beat the whites of three and the yolks of five eggs separately, 
stir to a cream ; two cups sugar, one-half cup butter; add one- 
half cup cold water, two and one-half cups flour with two tea- 
spoons baking powder, grated rind of one orange and all the 
juice (except about one tablespo|fc^ stirred into the cake. Bake 
in two square tins. ^^ 

Frosting. — Whites of two eggs, two small cups sugar, with 
a tablespobn of the orange juice served from the cake. When 
the cake is cold, join them with this frosting and frcst the tops. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Two cups flour, one of corn starch, one tablespoon baking 
powder, one teaspoon of extract of lemon, one\teaspoon of va- 
nilla mixed with the flour and put all through the sieve together ; 
one cup of butter, two cups of sugar stirred to a cream ; add one 
tea cup of milk and one-half of above ingredients; stir well, and 
add the whites of seven eggs well beaten, and then the rest of 
the flour mixture. Bake in jelly tins. 

The Jellv. — Whites of two eggs, one cup of pulverized sugar, 
juice and grated pulp of two oranges; meringue top adds to its 
appearance when piled on quite high. 

Duryeas' Improved Com Starch is made from the choicest com. 



• 



212 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON HONEY CAKE. 

Home Messenger, Detroit. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, one cup of corn starch, three cups of flour, three tea- 
spoons baking powder; rub the butter and sugar to a cream, 
♦hen add the milk ; lastly, the whites of eight eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, then the corn starch and flour, to which has been 
added the baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. 

Lemon Honey for the Cake. — One pound loaf sugar, the 
yolks of eight eggs with two whole ones, the juice of six lemons 
and grated rind of two, one-fourth pound butter. Put the sugar, 
lemon and butter into a sauce pan, melt over a gentle fire ; when 
all is dissolved, stir in the eggs which have been well beaten ; 
stir rapidly until it is as thick as honey. Spread this between 
the layers of cake ; set aside the remainder in a closely covered 
vessel for future use. 



SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 



CHESS CAKES. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 

Peel and grate one cocoanut, take one pound sugar, one-half 
pint water, and boil fifteen minures; stir in the grated cocoanut, 
boil fifteen minutes longer, while warm stir in one-fourth pound 
butter, then add the yolks of seven well beaten eggs. Bake in 
patty pans lined with a rich paste ; will keep some time, and 
mixes prettily in a basket of cake. The small oval patty tins are 
prettier than scallops. . 

The whitest, strongest, and most economical Search — Duryeas\ 



-ve.» 



VALUAIII.K RECIPES. 213 



FINGER CAKES. 

Mrs. Lanikin. 

Two eggs beaten very light, to which add a cup of granulated 
sugar, (excepting a tablespoonful;) sift in a very small tea- 
spoon cream-tartar, half as much soda, a little salt; stir in 
flour enough for a stiff dough ; roll very thin, and sprinkle with 
a tablespoon of sugar from the cupful, giving it a light roll; cut 
the dough in strips a finger width ; do not let them touch in the 
pan. Hake in quick oven, watching them, as they readily scorch. 
Add a good size teaspoon of vanilla. 

WIKE CAKE3. 

Mrs. A. M. Chellain. 

One pint of sweet milk, three eggs, well beaten, flour to make 
a thick batter, have hot lard and fry as you would fried cakes; 
take a spoon of batter, and let your hand shake as you drop it 
into the lard; serve warm with wine and sugar, or sweet cream. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Maggie Trainer. 

One egg, one cup sugar, ten cups sour milk, one large spoon 
cream, one teaspoon soda, a little salt, nutmeg, flour enough to 
roll. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Beyer. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one cup sour milk, in which dissolve 
one teaspoon soda, si.x tablespoons melted butter, a pinch of salt, 
and nutmeg ; after cooking, let them cool, and then roll in pul- 
verized sugar. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Mrs. Dr. Evarts. 

Two cups sweet milk, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup but- 
ter, four egc^s, two teaspoons cream-tartar, one teaspoon soda. 



Duryeas' i)'.Uin Gloss Starch gives a perfect Jiaish to Linen. 
15 



214 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

OLD-FASHIONED YANKEE DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. H. M. Riddle, Evanston; 

One pint milk, one teacup yeast; put yeast in milk, stir in 
flour and let it rise over night; in the morning add two teacups 
sugar, one teacup lard, two eggs, one teaspoon soda; work in 
flour, and let it rise very light ; add nutmeg or cinnamon to suit 
taste. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Benham. 

Two cups milk, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup lard, one cup sponge yeast, two eggs; add flour to make a 
stiff" dough; let it rise; when light, roll it out, and after they are 
cut out, let them stand on the moulding board untih light. Fry 
in hot lard, and when hot dip them in pulverized sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. H. W. Loomis, Rockford, 111. 

One quart new milk, four eggs, one cup of yeast, one cup of 
butter, two cups of sugar, one large nutmeg; at night, take. one 
quart of scalding milk, and stir* in your flour until very thick ; 
beat the eggs with one cup of sugar, and add the butter as soon 
as it can be done without scalding the eggs ; then add the cup 
of yeast and let it rise until morning. In the morning add the 
butter and sugar that has previously been stirred ; then the nut- 
meg, with flour enough to make it as stiff" as soft biscuit ; let it 
rise again. When very light, roll out three-fourths of an inch 
thick, and cut with a small cake cutter; let them stand two 
hours before frying. Roll in sugar when nearly cold. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. L. H. Clement. 

One cup of sugar, one and one-half of sour milk, one-half of 
butter, two eggs, and one teaspoon of soda ; flavor with nutmeg. 

Duryeas'' Improved Cbr^i Starch received the Medal at the Orand 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 215 



FRIED CAKES. 

Mrs. B. J. Seward. 

One cup of sugar, four tablespoons of fat, three eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, or three 
teaspoons baking powder; roll half an inch thick after mixing 
soft, and fry in hot lard. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Mrs. A. Kesler, Evanston. 

Two quarts unsifted flour, two teaspoons soda, four of cream 
tartar, two of salt, two eggs, one-half cup shortening, two of 
sugar, milk to mix. 

CRULLERS. 

Ella Waggoner, Toledo. 

Eight heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, four eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, two tablespoons milk and two of wine, 
(or four of milk,) and a pinch of soda dissolved in water. Fry 
in hot lard; sprinkle sugar over when hot. 

CRULLERS. ' 

Mrs. Arnold. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder; spice to taste. 

RUSK COOKIES. 

Mrs. E. A. Forsyth. 

One cup melted butter, one and a half cups sugar, one cup of 
tepid water, two teaspoons Dr. Price's baking powder mixed 
well with sifted flour ; roll out very thin, and cut with a round 
cake cutter, baking in a quick oven. 

Exposition in Paris, in 1867, for '^Perfection of Preparation.^^ 



210 THE nOMR COOK BOOK. 



WATER v^OOKIES. 

Mrs. F. D. Cray. 

One cup sugar, one-half of butter, one-half of water, caraway 
seed, wet hard and roll very thin, indeed; sprinkle with sugar 
after putting them in the tins. 

LEMOX COOKIES. 

Ella J. Roc. 

One pint sugar, one cup butter, one teaspoon soda, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Roll soft and thin, and bake quickly. 

VANILLA COOKIES. 

Mrs. C. S. Dartlett. 

One cup of butter and two cups of sugar, beaten well ; one 
cup of cold water, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of vanil- 
la, flour to make a very stiff dough. Roll very thin, and bake 
brown. 

BOILED COOKIES. 

Mrs. F. 

Boil one cup of milk, tAvo of sugar, three of flour ; cool it off; 
then add one teaspoon of soda, the yolks of three eggs; cut in 
rounds and bake in a quick oven. 

EVERLASTING COOKIES. 

Mrs. John Edwards, Rockford. 

Two cups sugar,^one of butter, three fourths of sweet milk, 
two teaspoons baking powder ; season to taste ; rub butter and 
sugar togetlier ; then add two eggs, milk and flour to make a soft 
dough ; roll thin, sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and bake 
in quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Russell. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sour cream, one tea- 
spoon soda, two of cream tartar, three eggs, three tablespoons 



Duryeas' Satin Oloss Starch is the best and most eoonomical. 



VALUABLE RKCIPES. 217 



caraway seed, a little nutmeg, flour enough to form a soft dough ; 
roll out thin and bake in a quick oven. 

'cookies. 

Mrs. Solomon Thatcher, Sr. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sour cream, three 
eggs, beat separately, one teaspoon of soda; beat cream and 
yolks well together, then mix soft and roll not very thick; bake 
in a quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. S. Bogue. 

Six cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of sour milk, one egg, one teaspoon of saleratus; first mix 
well together the flour, sugar and butter ; then put the saleratus 
in the milk, beat the egg and mix all together very light. 

COOKIES. 

Virginia West, Evanston. 

Two eggs, two teacups sugar, one teacup butter, one teacup 
milk, one nutmeg, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda; flour to roll. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Amelia Gravis. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of saleratus, one tablespoon 
ginger. 

WHIG JUMBLES. 

Mrs. W. II, Ovington. 

One teacup and a half of butter ; three teacups of sugar, one 
cup of sour cream, four eggs, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in 
it, six cups of flour, nutmeg; drop in heaping teaspoons on but- 
tered paper in pans. 



Daryeas' Improved Com Starch warranted the best. 



218 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington, 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, six eggs, grated 
peel of a fresh lemon, flour sufficient to make a soft dough; put 
in teaspoons in papered pans; on top of each cake put a blanch- 
ed almond, and some coarse lumps of crushed sugar before 
baking. 

RICH JUMBLES. 

Mrs. Kate Johnson. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, two eggs well 
beaten, three-quarters pound flour; have plenty of rolled sugar 
on the board, and work little lumps of the dough (which is very- 
soft) in it; make into little rings, and turn them over into butter- 
ed pans and bake with care; they will keep for two or three 
months. 

EXCELLENT JUMBLES. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

One. cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup cream, one teaspoon 
soda, one egg, a little bit of nutmeg, flour enough to stiffen it so 
as to bake in rings ; bake quickly. 

COCO AN UT JUMBLES. 

Mrs. F. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, small teaspoon of 
soda, mixed with the flour, two cups of cocoanut. 



JACKSON JUMBLES. 

Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

One cup of butter, one cup cream, three cups of sugar, five 
eggs, fiye cups of flour. 

Duryeas' Satin Oloaa Starch is the whitest, therefore the purest. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 219 



SAND TARTS. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

One pound sugar, three-fourths pound of butter, two eggs, 
flour enough to make very stiff; roll them out and wet the tops 
with whites of eggs, then put two almonds on each one; sprinkle 
over them cinnamon and sugar. 

SUGAR DROPS. 

Mrs. H. M. Buell. • 

One pound flour, three-fourths pound of sugar, one-half of 
butter, four eggs, a gill of rose water. To be baked on paper. 
This will make sixty drops. 

' '^ * COCO ANtTT DROPS. 

^ Mrs. H. M. Buell, 

ji The meat of one cocoanut, pared and grated, weight of the 

same in sugar, one-half cup of flour, white. 

^ NO MATTERS. 

^ - M. A. Bingham. 

• Three cups sour milk, three tablespoons of cream or butter; 
one cup of sugar ; roll about the size of a plate, fry in hot lard, 
cover each with nicely seasoned apple sauce; lay over each 
other. 

COOKIES. 

M. A. Bingham. 

* Two cups of butter, three cups of sugar, four eggs, one table- 
spoon of vinegar, one teaspoon ofsaleratus; roll thin, bake in a 
hot oven. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

Mrs. Beyer. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon soda ; put in enough 
flour to roll out, 

Duryeaa' Satin Gloss Starch is the strongest and the whitest. 



220 THE nOMR COOK BOOK. 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Sarah Waldo. i 'i, 

One pint of molasses, one teacup of sugar, one of butter, one 
of lard, one-half of sour milk, two teaspoons soda, two table- 
spoons of ginger. 

GINGER CAK^. « 

Mrs. Mann, Freeport. ^ 

One half cup butter, one of molasses, one of sugar, one of 
cold water, one heaping teaspoon soda, one quart of flour. 
Ginger and salt to taste ; drop on the tins and bake in a quick 
oven. 

GINGER COOKIES. " '^'^ *- ^ \ 

Mrs. J. O. Knapp. ^ 

One cup of sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, two table** 
spoons ginger, and two ^teaspoons saleratus dissolved in threes- 
tablespoons of hot water. Bake quickly. ^ 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Miss Gilbert, Evanston. 

One cup molasses, one-half of sugar, two-thirds of butter, onc-, 
hq^f of water, one tablespoon ginger, one-half teaspoon of alui^ 
dissolved in hot water, two teaspoons saleratus, dissolved in the 
molasses; mix the whole, with flour enough to roll out nicely. 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. John Edwards, Rockford. 

One cup ofmolases; let it come to a boil, then add two tea- 
spoons of soda, when cool ; mix one cup of butter, three-fourths 
of sugar, and two eggs well, together; then add your molasses 
and two tablespoons of water, two tablespoons ging^, some cin- 
namon, and some cloves, and allspice ; add flour and roH - very 
thin ; bake in a quick oven. 

Duryeas* Improved Corn Starch, the ^^ Perfection of 



^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 221 



e03SfT:&G TXO»«%7. 



•• Sweets to the Sweet." 

— SllAKSPEARE. 

CANDY. 

One pound sugar, one and a half cup water, three tablespoons 
rose water; boil twenty minutes; then pull. 

CANDY. 

Carrie A. • 

One>half pound sugar, one-half cup syrup, butter the size of a 
walnut; add little water to the syrup, and have the sugar thor- 
oughly dissolved; to try it, drop a spoonful in a glass of ice 
water; if brittle, it is done. • 

CANDY CARAMELS. 

Mary H. 

One pint cream, one pound sugar, one cup butter, one-fourth 
cup chocolate, one cup of molasses. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

• * - * 

Ella C. Springer. 

Two pounds sugar, two ounces butter, one cup of cream, boil 
over a good fire until the syrup is brittle ; try in water as you do 

Preparation,'^— Orand Exposition, Paris, 18C7. 



222 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

taffy ; then pour it in pans, and when it is most cold cut it in 
squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup of fine granulated sugar, one cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one-fourth cup of milk, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, one cup of chocolate after it is cut up, if made single quan- 
tity; if doubled, it is as well not to put the chocolate in till about 
done, and then the same quantity of this recipe will suffice, as it 
retains the flavor if not cooked as much. Boil till it will stiffen 
in water; pour into flat buttered pans to the thickness of half an 
inch. Use Baker's chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup choco- 
late grated fine, one cup boiled milk, one tablespoon of flour; 
butter the size of a large English walnut ; let it boil slowly and 
pour on flat tins to cool; mark off while warm. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayers. 

To one grated cocoanut, add half its weight of sugar and the 
white of one egg, cut to a stiff" froth; mix thoroughly and drop 
on buttered white paper or tin sheets. Bake fifteen minutes. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound white sugar, one wineglass vinegar, one tumbler 
water, vanilla ; boil one-half hour, and pull, if you choose. 

KISSES. 

E. S. P. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half of soda, flour enough 

Duryeas* Satin Gloss Starch gives the best 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 223 



to make a stiff dough ; drop on tins and sprinkle over with pow- 
dered sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Mrs. Benham. 

One cup molasses, two cups sugar, one tablespoon vinegar, a 
little butter and vanilla ; boil ten minutes, then cool enough to 
pull. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Julia French. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoon vinegar, 
piece of butter size of an egg; boil (but do not stir) until it hard- 
ens when dropped in cold water ; then stir in a teaspoon of soda, 
and pour on buttered tins; when cool, pull and cut in sticks. 

Or, two cups sugar, two tablespoons vinegar, boil, when done 
add a teaspoon soda, cool and pull, or cut in squares without pull- 
ing : do not stir while it is boiling. 

BUTTER SCOTCH CANDY. 

Four cups brown sugar, two of butter, vinegar to taste, two 
tablespoons water, and a little soda ; boil half an hour ; drop a 
little in hot water, and if crisp, it is done. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Fannie Waggoner, Toledo. 

Three tablespoons of molasses, two of sugar, two of water, 
one of butter ; add a pinch of soda before taking up. 



Finish, and is the easiest to use. 



22t 



THE nOME OOOK BOOK. 



ratyjTS< 



Bring me berries or such cooling fruit 
As the Ivind, hospitable woods provide. 

— COWPER. 



Fruits for preserving should be carefully selected, removing 
all that are imperfect; they are in the best condition when not 
fully ripe, 'and as soon as possible after they are picked. Small 
fruits should not be allowed to stand over night after they are 
picked, when they are to be preserved. Use only the finest 
sugar for preserving. When fruit is sealed in glass cans, wrap 
paper of two or three thicknesses around the cans. The chemical 
action of light will affect the quality of the preserves when per- 
fectly air-tight. With this precaution, glass cans are preferable 
to any other for preserving fruit. One-half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit is a good rule for canned fruit, although many 
housekeepers use but one-quarter of a pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit. 

An excellent rule for canning the larger fruits, as peaches, 
pears, &c. , is to place them in a steamer over a kettle of boil- 
ing water, laying first a cloth in the bottom of the steamer; fill 
this with the fruit and cover tighdy. Let them steam for fifteen 
minutes, or until they can be easily pierced with a fork, (some 
fruits will require a longer time.) Make a syrup of sugar of the 
right consistency. As the fruit is steamed, drop each for a 



Duryeas^ Improved Corn Starch, "Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPF8. 225 



moment in the syrup, then place in the cans, having each one- 
half full of fruit, and then fill up with the hot syrup, then cover 
and seal. 
^ ORANGES FOR DESSERT. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon, 

Slices of orange dipped in spiced wine, is a famous dessert in 
Jaffa. 

AMBROSIA. 

Mrs. S. W. Cheever, OUawa, 111. 

Take one dozen sweet oranges, peel off the skins and cut them 
in slices; take a large sized fresh cocoanut, grate it on a coarse 
grater, then put alternate layers of the orange and grated cocoa- 
nut in a glass dish, and sprinkle pulverized sugar over each layer 
of the cocoanut. This makes a beautiful and palatable dish. 

MOCK STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. 

Mrs. Barllelt. 

Take any quantity of sound ripe peaches, and well flavored 
eating api)les, say in i)roportion of three peaches to one apple, 
peel the fruit nicely, cut a layer of peaches and then of apples, 
alternately, they should be cut, (not sliced) about the size of a 
large strawberry. When finished, covt^r the top with a layer of 
crushed sugar, then pour over all two or three spoons of cold 
water. Let the whole stand about two hours ; then mix the 
peaches and apples indiscriminately; let stand one hour longer, 
serve with, or without cream. The flavor of strawberry is more 

perfect without cream. 

« 

BAKED APPLES. 

Pare as many apples as you wish of some nice variety, neither 
sweet nor sour ; core them by using an api)le corcr or a steel 
fork ; set them in biscuit tins, and fill the cavities with sugar, a 
little butter and some ground cinnamon, if you like; set them in 
the oven and bake until done. 

Excellent for Food'^ — London Expoiilion, 1862. 



/■ 



226 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Mrs. J. B. Stubbs. 

Place in a stone jar, first a layer of pears, (without paring,) 
then a layer of sugar, then pears, and so on until the jar is full. 
Then put in as much water as it will hold. Bake in oven three 
hours. Very nice. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

One dozen nice quinces, cored and wefrrubbed. Put in bak- 
ing pans, and fill the centre with pulverized sugar. " Bake and 
serve cold, with or without cream. 

JELLIED GRAPES. * 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

A very delicate dish, is made of one-third of a cup of rice, 
two cups of grapes, half a cup of water, and two spoons of sugar. 
Sprinkle the nee and sugar among the grapes, while placing 
them in a deep dish ; pour on the water, cover close and simmer 
two hours slowly in the oveu. Serve cream as sauce, or cold as 
pudding. If served warm as pudding, increase slightly the pro- 
portion of rice and sugar. 

CITRON PRESERVES. • 

Carter. 

Cut the citron in thin slices, boil in water with a small piece 
of alum until clear and tender ; then rinse in cold water. MaKe 
a syrup of three-fourths pound of sugar to the pound of citron ; 
boil a piece of ginger in the syrup ; then pour the citron in and 
let it boil a few minutes. Put in one lemon to five of the fruit. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

As you peel and core the quinces, throw them in cold water ; 
strain them out of the water and make a syrup. To a pint of 

Duryeas' Starchy the Prize Medal Starch of the world. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 227 



water, put a pound of sugar, to every pound of fruit. When 
the syrup boils, put in fruit, and boil until soft. BoiUthe syrup 
down as usual with other preserves. 

PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Peel the oranges, and cut the rinds into narrow shreds, boil till 
tender; change the water three times; squeeze the juice of the 
orange over the sugaif put poun& to pound of sugar and peel ; 
boil twenty minutes all together. 

SPICED PEACHES OR PEARS. 

Mrs. Menry M. Knickerbocker. 

To ten pounds good mellow peaches, use five pounds sugar, 
one pint of good vinegar, and some whole cloves or cinnamon. 
Take the sugar, vinegar and cloves, and let tliem come to a boil, 
and turn aver the fruit. This do three days in succession, and 
the last day put the fruit into the syrup, a few at a time, and let 
them just boil up. 

CANNED PINE APPLE. 

Mrs. F. L. Bristol. 

For six pounds fruit when cut and ready to can, make syrup 
with two and a half pounds sugar and nearly three pints of water; 
boil syrup five minutes and skim or strain if necessary; thpn add 
tUb fruit, and let it boil up; have car^ hot, fill and shut up as 
soon as possible. Use the best white sugar. As the cans cool, 
keep tightening them up. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Miss Blaikie. 

After the berries are pulled, let as many as can be put care- 
fully in the preserve kettle at once^ be placed on a platter. To 
each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a pound of sugar ; let 

Duryeas' Improved Com Starch is made from the choicest cotti. 



228 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

them stand two or three hours, till the juice is drawn from them ; 
pour it in the kettle and let it come to a boil, and remove the 
scum which rises ; then put in the berries very carefully. As 
soon as they come thoroughly to a boil, put them <in warm jars, 
and seal while boiling hot. Be sure the cans are air tight. 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE, 

Mrs. R. Harris. 

Four pounds brown sugar, eight pounds'^ooseberries, one pint 
vinegar, two ounces cloves (ground,) two ounces cinnamon, boil 
four hours. 

GOOSEBERRY SOY. ^ 

M. A. Bingham, Elgin, 111. 

Take six pounds gooseberries that are nearly ripe, and three 
pounds sugar, one pint best vinegar, and boil altogether until 
quite thick. To be eaten with meats; will keep good a long 
time ; season to suit your taste with ground cloves and cinnamon. 

CHERRY OR CURRANT SAUCE. 

M. A. Bingham, Elgin, 111. 

Four pounds of cherries or currants, two pounds sugar, one 
cup vinegar, one-half ounce cinnamon ; cook slowly about one 
hour. 

CANNED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. Wicker. 

Put sufficient sugar to prepare them for the table, then boil 
ten minutes and seal hot as possible. 

TO CAN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Wash your tomatoes, and f ut out any places that are green or 
imperfect, then cut them up, and put over to cook with a little 
salt ; boil them till perfectly soft ; then strain them through a 

The whitest, strongest, and most economical Starch — DaryeasK 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 229 



colander ; turn them back to cook, and when they have come to 
to a boiling heat, pour them into stone jugs, (one or two gallon 
jugs as you prefer;) they will keep a day or two in winter, if all 
are not used at a time ; put the cork in, and have some canning 
cement hot, and pour over the cork. The jug must, of course, 
be hot when the tomatoes are poured in. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One quart cranberries, one quart water, one quart sugar; stew 
slowly. 

PIC NIC LEMON BUTTER. 

Etta C. Springer. 

Grate the rind, add juice of three lemons, one pound sugar, 
two ounces butter, three eggs ; mix together, let come to boil ; 
stir all the time. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Mrs. D. S. Munger. 

Beat six eggs, one-fourth pound butter, one pound sugar, the 
rind and juice of three lemons ; mix together and set it in a pan 
of hot water to cook. Very nice for tarts, or to eat with bread. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Mrs. M. L. 

Take pound for pound o£ peaches and sugar ; cook peaches 
alone until they become soft, then put in one-half the sugar, and 
stir for one-half an hour ; then the remainder of sugar, and stir 
an hour and a half. Season with cloves and cinnamon. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Mrs. Johnson. 

Nine pounds peeled tomatoes, three pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, three tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, one 

Daryeas^ Satin Oloss Starch gives a per feet finish to Linen. 
16 



^^h 



230 THE HOME (X>OK BOOK. 

and one-half tablespoons allspice; boil three or four hours until 
quite thick, and stir often, that it may not burn. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford, 111. 

To five pounds currants add three pounds brown sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves and one pint of 
good cider, or white wir\e vinegar, and boil two hours. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Take nice green apples that will cook nicely ; quarter the ap- 
ples without paring, put them in a pan or kettle and cover 
over with water, and keep them covered ; let them boil slowly 
until entirely done ; then put in a bag and drain (not squeeze) 
them. Put a pound of white sugar to a pint of juice. This is 
very easily made in the winter; is best made the day before 
using. 

APPLE JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 
Grate one large or two small apples, the rind and juice of one 
kmon, one cup of sugar; boil three minutes. 

APPLE JELLY. 

"^ Mrs. N. P. Iglehart. 

• 
Take juicy apples, (Rambos, if possible;) take the stem and 

top off, and wash them nicely, then cut up in quarters and put 
cold water on them, just enough to cover them ; boil them soft, 
afterward strain them through a jelly bag ; then take two pints 
at a time with two pounds of crushed sugar; boil twenty min- 
utes, then do the same with the other juice left; to be econom- 
ical, pare and core the apples; don't strain so close, but that you 
can, by adding a little more water, use the apples for sauce or 
pies. 

Duryeaa' Improved Corn Starch received the Medal at the Grand 



■. VALUABLE RECIPES. 231 

CRAB APPLE JELLY AND JAM. 

Mrs. Ludlam, Evanston. 

Remove stems and blossoms from the apples ; let them scald 
and pour off the first water ; next put them in plenty of water 
and let them cook slowly ; as they begin to soften, dip off the 
juice for jelly, straining it through flannel. One pound of juice 
to a pound of sugar, for jelly. Next add more water ; let apples 
stew very soft, strain through a sieve, which takes out cores and 
seeds; to this pulp add brown sugar, pound for pound; it needs 
careful cooking and stirring. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Allow fourteen ounces of sugar to a pint of juice. Boil fifteen 
minutes alone ; add sugar and boil five minutes. 

LEMON JELLY. 

M. A. P. 

Grate the outside, and squeeze the juice of two lemons; add 
one cup of sugar, one-half of butter, yolks of three eggs; place 
the ingredients on the fire, stirring all the time until it forms a 
jelly, which will be in about ten minutes. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Mrs. P. B, Ayer. 

Grate the outsides of two lemons, and squeeze the juice; add 
one cup of sugar, one-half of butter, yolks of three eggs; beat 
the three last ingredients thoroughly, then add the juice and 
grated rind, and put it over your fire, stirring until thick ; mould 
to fancy. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Soak one package of gelatine in one-half pint cold water for 
one hour ; add juice of three lemons, two pounds sugar, and one 

Expoaitlon in PariSy in 1887, for "Perfection of Preparation." 



232 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



quart of boiling water ; when all are dissolved, add one pint of 
orange juice ; strain carefully and set on ice till ready for use ; 
eight oranges usually make it, .but a pint of wine may be used 
instead of oranges. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Jam and strain the currants, to each pint of juice, add one 
pound sugar; boil the juice fifteen minutes without sugar, and 
the same time after it is in. Strain into glasses. 

When pouring hot fruit or jelly in cans or glasses, wring a tow- 
el out of cold water, lay it on a table, and set the cold cans upon 
it, pouring the boiling fruit into them. Care should be taken 
not to set two cans on the same spot without first wetting the 
towel. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. C. Wh-eeler. 

Use the currants when they first ripen ; pick them from the 
stems and put them on the stove in a stone jar, bruising them 
with a wooden spoon; then when warm, squeeze through a 
coarse cloth or flannel, and put the juice on in a new tin pan or 
porcelain kettle ; one quart of juice requires twO pounds of su- 
gar, or a pound to a pint; boil fifteen minutes; to be a nice 
color, the currants should n5t come in contact with iron spoons 
or tin dishes, unless new and bright ; should be made quickly. 
It never fails to jelly good if the currants are not to ripe. The 
same method for jam, only do not strain the currants, but mash 
them well. Currants should not be dead ripe for jelly or jam. 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

E. M. Walker. 

Boil six pounds of green unripe gooseberries in six pints of 
water, (they must be well boiled, but not burst too much) ; pour 
them into a basin, and let them stand covered with a cloth for 
twenty-four hours, then strain through a jelly bag, and to every 

Duryeaa^ SatirC^oss Starch is the best and most economical. 



\ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 233 



pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil it for an hour, then 
skim it, and boil for one-half hour longer with a sprig of vanilla. 

CIDER JELLY. 

Soak a package of gelatine in a pint of cider until the cider is 
absorbed ; then add a pound and a half of sugar, and the juice 
of three large lemons, (or one pound of sugar and no lemons, if 
desired). Stir in quickly and thoroughly a quart and a half of 
boiling water; wet moulds in cold water, and gour in the mix- 
ture ; let it stand from eight to twenty-four hours before using. 

CIDER JELLY. 

Mrs. George Frost, Detroit. 

One package of gelatine (one and one-half ounces,) the grat- 
ed rind of one lemon and the juice of three ; add one pint of 
cold water, and let it stand one hour ; then add two and one-half 
pounds of loaf sugar, three pints of boiling water, and one pint 
of cider, put into moulds and set in a cool place. 

CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 

Mrs. H. E. Sargent. 

One package Cdx's gelatine, pour upon it a pint of cold water 
and let it soak for half an hour, adding the juice of one lemon 
and half the rind, one quart of sugar, one quart of champagne ; 
mix all thoroughly together and add a scant quart of boiling wa- 
ter, stirring well all the time ; strain through a flannel bag, and 
pour into moulds to cool. 

WINE JELLY. 

Kitty King. 

Dissolve one ounce package of Cox's Sparkling (ielatine, in a 
pint of cold water for half an hour ; then pour over it a quart of 
boiling water; add the grated rind of one and the juice of three 
lemons, half a pint of sherry wine, a pinch of ground cinna- 

Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch warranted the beet. 



^^ 



idKS Sac- ttHAir Sours. 
■Bsai mae^ jsu£ ^piUL" '^ 



.LSLl 



jxHse off iShbc feai 



an imt jiur m : ua 



•omc ^inti 



lUEtf 



7t*HblWlfe. 




MtmTfBBO^' firi» ifimmmarA m -Sit mAUmt . ^msm^tm Ac 








Cm. 



3BBX 



omA Thwg^ jpntTi 






SfHaS: X WfTHT 



'i7<M» .:for>s& :» -Av^ 



236 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GRAPE JAM. 

Mrs. S. W. Cheever, Ottawa, 111. 

Take your grapes, separate the skin from the pulp, keeping 
them in separate dishes, put the pulps in your preserving kettle 
with a teacup of water; when thoroughly heated, run -them 
through a colander to separate the seeds; then put your skins 
with them and weigh ; to each pound of fruit, put three-fourths 
of a pound of sugar ; add merely water enough to keep from 
burning ; cook slowly three-fourths of an hour. ' This is a deli- 
cious jam, and worth the trouble. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

M. A. T. 

To each pound of fruit, add three-fourths of a pound of sugar; 
■nash each separately ; then put together and boil from one-half 
to three-fourths of an hour. 

QUINCE JAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil your fruit in as little water as possible, until soft enough 
to break easily ; pour off all the water and rub with a spoon un- 
til entirely smooth. To one pound of the quince, add ten 
ounces of brown sugar, and boil twenty minutes, stirring often. 

PINE APPLE JAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Grate your pine apple ; to one pound of the apple, add three- 
fourths of a pound of loaf sugar ; boil ten minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon. 

One dozen Seville oranges, one dozen common oranges, one 
dozen lemons ; boil the oranges and lemons whole in water for 

Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch, the ^^ Perfection of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 237 



five hours; scoop out the inside, removing the seeds; cut the 
peel into thin slices with a knife, and add to every pound of pulp 
and peel, a pint of water, and two pounds of sugar. Boil twenty 
minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. Wm. Brackett. 

Take seven oranges and five lemons ; boil in water two or three 
hours; throw away the water, and open the oranges and lemons, 
taking out the seeds and preserving all the pulp and juice possi- 
ble ; cut the rinds in small strips or chop them, but cutting in 
strips is better; weigh it all, when this is done; then put three 
pounds of sugar, to two of the pulp and boil slowly till clear. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. B. P. Hutchinson. 

Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, one tablespoon cloves, and one of cinnamon. Boil 
twenty minutes. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. Meek and Mrs. O. L. Wheeler. 

Five pounds currants, four pounds sugar, two tablespoons 
cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon, one pint vinegar ; simmer two- 
hours. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Ten pounds fruit, seven pounds sugar, three quarts vinegar, 
six large spoons cinnamon, one spoon cloves, two spoons all- 
spice; put all together and boil thick. To be eaten with ineats. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Five pounds fruit, four pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, two 
teaspoons pulverized cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon, simmer 
three hours ; more spices can be used, if desired. 

Preparation.'^— Grand Exposition, Paris, 1867. 



238 



THE HOME <X)OK BOOK. 



Glittering squares of colored ice, 

Sweetened with syrups, tinctured with spice ; 

Creams and cordials and sugared dates ; 

Syrian apples, Othmanee quinces. 

Limes and citrons and apricots. 

And wines that are known to eastern princes. 

****** 

And all that the curious palate could wish, 
Pass in and out of the cedarn doors. 

— T. B. Aldrich. 

Who peppered the highest was surest to please." 



S^V^EET nCIilEES. 



PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Six quarts cherries, three pounds of sugar, three quarts of best 
cider vinegar, one ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon; put 
spice in a musUn bag, and boil with the sugar and vinegar; 
when this boils up for a few minutes, add the cherries. 



Ihtryeas' Satin Oloas Starch gives the best 



VALUABLE RECIPKS. 239 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Mrs. Meek. 

To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two ounces stick 
cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one quart vinegar, add a little 
mace ; put in the jar first a layer plums, then a layer of spices 
alternately ; scald the vinegar and sugar together ; pour it over 
the plums, repeat three times for plums, (only once for cut ap- 
ples and pears ;) the fourth time scald all together; put them into 
glass jars and they are ready for use. 



PICKLED APPLES. 

Mrs. Watson Thatcher. 

For one peck of sweet apples, take three pounds of sugar, two 
quarts of vinegar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, one-half ounce 
cloves; pare the apples, leaving them whole; boil them in part 
of the vinegar and sugar, until you can put a fork through them ; 
take them out, beat the remainder of vinegar and sugar, and 
pour over them. Be careful not to boil them too long, or they 
will break. 

PICKLED APPLP:S. 

Mrs. Henry Stevens, 

Ten pounds fruit, four pounds sugar, one quart vinegar, cloves 
and cinnamon. Pare and core the apples. Boil apples in syrup 
until soft. Eat with pleasure, not with sauce. 



PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. Dr. Evarts. 

One quart sugar, one pint vinegar, one gallon fruit; let sugar 
and vinegar come to a boil; pour over the fruit, next day draw 
off, and let the liquor come to a boil again ; repeat till the ninth 
day, then boil fruit and syrup ten minutes. Spice to taste. 

fVnish, and is the easiest to use. 



240 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

, PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. C. D. Howard. 

Take- five pounds of brown sugar to one gallon of pure cider 
vinegar ; boil it hard for thirty minutes, skimming off the scum 
till clear; rub off the peaches in the meantime otit of boiling 
water, (quickly,) with a flannel cloth, sticking four cloves in each 
peach, and a bag of cinnamon put into the boiling syrup. If 
the peaches are clingstones, put them into the boiling syrup for 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; if freestones, lay them in the jar in 
layers, and pour the syrup over them while hot ; then put a 
small plate over to keep them from rising, and cover tightly with 
cloth or paper. In four days look at them, and if necessary, 
boil the syrup again, and pour on while hot; keep them in a 
cool place while the weather is hot to prevent their souring. 
The White Sugar Cling is nice for pickling, and the Blood Peach 
is very rich, but dark. Small pears can be pickled in the same 
manner, if the skin is taken off. 



SOUPt FICIvLES. 



PREPARED MUSTARD, 

C. D. Adams. 

Two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon* sugar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, boiling water enough to mix it ; when cold, add one 
tablespoon salad oil, and vinegar enough to thin it. This will 
keep a week or two. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Monroe Heath. 

Select good ripe tomatoes, scald and strain through a coarse 
sieve to remove seeds and skins ; then add to each gallon when 

Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch, ^'Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 241 



cold, four tablespoons of salt, three of ground mustard, two of 
black pepper, one of ground allspice, one-half of cloves, one-half 
of cayenne pepper, and one pint of white wine or cider vinegar; 
simmer slowly four hours ; bottle and cork tight. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. A. P. Wightman. 

Pick those that are small and of quick growth, wash well and 
pour boiling water over them with a little salt. Let them stand 
twelve hours ; put them into cold vinegar. To a gallon of vin- 
egar, put one tablespoon of pulverized alum, and a teacup of 
salt; let them remain in this until your vinegar is full of cucum- 
bers, then scald them in it, and put them into new viOiegar. 
Red peppers improve them. 

OUDE SAUCE. 

C. Kennicott. 

One pint green tomatoes, six peppers, (not large), four onions, 
chop together; add one cup salt, and let it stand over night; in 
the morning, drain off the water ; add one cup sugar, one cup 
horse radish, one tablespoon ground cloves, one tablespoon cin- 
namon, cover with vinegar, and stew gently all day. 

MY MOTHER'S FAVORITE PICKLES. 

Mrs. Savage. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine ; one quart boiled beets 
chopped fine ; two cups of sugar, tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon 
black pepper, one-fourth teaspoon red pepper, one tea cup of 
grated horse radish ; cover with cold vinegar, and keep from the 
air. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

H. N. Jenks. 

One peck of tomatoes sliced, six large onions, some cauliflow- 
er, (much or little as you prefer), a pint of salt thrown over them 

Excellent for Food.'''' — London Exposition, 1862. 



242 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

at night, the liquor drained off in the morning; then boil the to- 
matoes, onions, &c., in two quarts of water, and one quart of vin- 
egar, fifteen or twenty minutes. After boiling, put it in a 
colander and drain it off; add seven pints of vinegar, two pounds 
brown sugar, one-half of white mustard seed, two tablespoons of 
ground allspice, two of cloves, two of ginger, two of cinnamon, 
two of ground mustard, one-half a tablespoon of cayenne ; put 
all in a kettle and boil fifteen or twenty minutes, stir and be very 
careful not to burn. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

9 Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, four green peppers sliced 
fine, two large or three small heads cauliflower, three heads of 
white cabbage shaved fine, nine large onions sliced, one large 
root horse-radish, one quart of green beans cut one inch long, 
one quart green tomatoes sliced ; put this mixture in a pretty 
strong brine twenty-four hours; drain three hours, then sprinkle 
in one-fourth pound of black and one-fourth pound of white mus- 
stard seed, also one tablespoon black ground pepper; let it come 
to a good boil in just vinegar enough to cover it, adding a little 
alum. Drain again, and when cold, mix in one-half pint of 
ground mustard: cover the whole with good cider vinegar; add 
tumeric enough to color, if you like. 



PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Select solid heads, slice very fine, put in a jar, then cover with 
boiling water; when cold, drain off the water and season with 
grated horse-radish, salt, equal parts of black and red pepper, 
cinnamon, and cloves whole ; cover with strong vinegar. This 
i3 convenient and always good. 

Duryeas' Starch, the Prize Medal Starch of the ivorld. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 243- 



WEST INDIA PICKLE. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

One white crisp cabbage, two heads cauliflower, three heads 
celery, one quart each of small green plums, peaches, grapes, 
radish pods, masturtion seeds, artichokes, tomatoes, and string 
beans. The green part of a watermelon next to the rind ; one 
quart small onions parboiled in milk; one hundred small cucum- 
bers about an inch or so long, a few green peppers, and three 
limes or green lemons. Cut fine the cabbage, cauliflower, celery, 
pepper and limes, and green ginger; mix well with the rest, then 
pour a strong hot brine over them, and let them stand three 
hours, then take out and let them drain over night. Mix one 
ounce tumeric powder, with a little cold vinegar, add one bottle 
French mustard, ground cinnamon, allspice, two nutmegs, black 
pepper, four pounds white sugar, and one gallon vinegar, pour 
boiling hot over\he pickle; if not suflficiently liquid to moisten 
nicely, add more vinegar. 



PICKLED ONIONS. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Peel your onions, and let them lie in a weak brine made of 
salt and water (over night) ; then put them in a jar, cover them 
with boiling white wine and vinegar. Cover close, and tie down 
when cold. 

PICKLED MELONS. 

Mrs. Wicker. 

Take ripe melons, wash, pare and take out the seeds, cut 
them in slices; put them in a stone jar, cover with vinegar, and 
let them stand twenty-four hours. Take out, and to each quart 
of fresh vinegar, add three pounds brown sugar ; for twelve mel- 
ons take three ounces cinnamon, two of cloves, two of allspice; 
boil the sugar and spices in the vinegar ; skim it well, then put 

Durj/eaa' Improved Com Starch ie made from, the choicest com. 



244 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

in the melons, and boil for twenty minutes; let the syrup boil a 
few minutes after taking them but, then pour it over them. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

After cuttiAg off all the green leaves, put the cauliflower into 
boiling water, with a good supply of salt, and boil from three to 
five minutes ; take them out of the salt and water, dip them in 
clear cold water one minute, to send the heat to the heart of the 
■cauliflower, cut them in pieces convenient to put in jars, then 
make a mixture of one tablespoon of mace, one of cloves, one 
allspice, one of ginger, two of white mustard seed and a red 
pepper pod, with each gallon of vinegar. Let the mixture boil, 
and pour it upon the cauliflower, cover them closely, and let 
them stand one week, then pour off the vinegar, scald it and re- 
turn it again hot to the cauliflower ; then put them in jars ready 
for use. The best cider vinegar should be used, and if it is not 
perfectly clear, it will dissolve the cauliflower. 

BRINE FOR CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

Three pails water, two quarts coarse salt, (rock is good,) one 
pound alum, one pound black pepper, tied in a bag; dissolve 
the alum in a little hot water ; put all into a jar or keg ; wash 
the cucumbers with great care, and have none that are bruised; 
throw them in and place a weight to keep them under. When 
wanted for pickling, soak a short time, changing the water as 
often as necessary. ' 

CONGRESS PICKLES. 

S. S. Peirce. 

Wash the cucumbers ; take one pint of fine salt to one hun- 
dred medium sized cucumbers, and sprinkle it over them ; pour 
on boiling hot water enough to cover them; let them stand forty- 
eight hours; take them out of the brine, wipe them, put 'them 

The whitest, strongest and most economical Starch — Duryeas\ 



VALUABLE KECIPE8. 245 



in the jars, and pour over them scalding hot vinegar with any 
spices you Hke. If the vinegar becomes tasteless, put them into 
fresh vinegar before using them. 'Keep them covered tight. 

KECIPE FOR 600 PICKLES. 

Mrs. F. D. Gray. 

Make a brine of cold water and salt strong enough to bare an 
egg ; heat boiling hot and pour over the cucumbers ; let them stand 
twenty-four hours, then take out and wipe dry ; scald vinegar and 
jKJur over them and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then pour 
off, and to fresh vinegar add one quart brown sugar, two large 
green peppers, one-half pint white mustard, six cents' worth of 
ginger root, the same of cinnamon, allspice and cloves; one ta- 
blespoon celery seed, alum the size of a butternut ; scald these 
together and pour boiling hot on the cucumbers. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. Packard. 

Wash with care your cucumbers, and place in jars. Make a 
weak brine (a handful of salt to a gallon and a half of water.) 
.When scalding hot, turn over the cucumbers and cover; repeat 
this process three mornings in succession, taking care to skim 
thoroughly. On the fourth day have ready a porcelain kettle of 
vinegar, in which has been added a piece of alum the size of a 
walnut. When scalding hot, put in as many cucumbers as may 
be covered with the vinegar; do not let them boil, but skim out 
as soon as scalded through, and replace with others, adding each 
time a small piece of alum. W' hen this process is through, 
throw out the vinegar, and replace with good cider or white wine 
vinegar ; add spices, mustard seed and red peppers. Sort the 
pickles and place in stone or glass jars, turn over the hot spiced' 
vinegar ; seal and put away the jars not needed for immediate 
use. Pickles thus prepared, are fine and crisp at the expiration 
of a year. Those that are kept in open mouth jars may be cov- 
€red with a cloth, which will need to be taken off and rinsed oc- 

Duryeas' Satin Oloss Starch gives a perfect finish to Linen. 
17 



246 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

casionally. I prefer green peppers, and prepare them with the 
cucumbers in brine. They are not as apt to become soft. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. J. L. Harris, Keokuk, Iowa. 

Chop one-half peck tomatoes, three onions, a gill of horse- 
radish, three green peppers ; put them in a sieve and drain dry, 
salt in layers and let them stand one night ; drain the next day, 
scald vinegar and pour over it ; let it stand two or three days; 
drain again, scald a pound of sugar to a quart of vinegar, a ta- 
blespoon black pepper, the same of allspice, three ounces of 
ground cloves, three ounces of mustard, a gill of mustard seed. 
Boil the spices in a little vinegar. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman, Rockford, 111. 

To seven pounds ripe tomatoes add three pounds sugar, one 
quart vinegar ; boil them together fifteen minutes, skim out the 
tomatoes, and boil the syrup a few minutes longer. Spice to 
suit the taste with cloves and cinnamon. 

PICCALILLL 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

One peck of green tomatoes, slice them thin, add' one pint of 
salt, cover with cold water, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; 
then chop very fine one head of cabbage, six onions, twelve green 
peppers; then cover it with hot vinegar, drain it through a seive, 
add one pint of molasses, one tablespoon cloves, allspice, two 
ounces of white mustard seed and cover with cold vinegar. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs. Lamkin. 
One peck of green tomatoes; (if the flavor of onions is desired, 
take eight, but it is very nice without any,) four green peppers; 
slice all, and put in layers, sprinkle on one cup of salt, and let 

Duryeaa' Improved Corn Starch received the Medal at the Grand 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 247 



them remain over night, in the morning press dry through a 
sieve, put it in a porcelain kettle, and cover with vinegar; add 
one cup of sugar, a tablespoon of each kind of spice ; put into a 
muslin bag ; stew slowly about an hour, or until the tomatoes 
are as soft as you desire. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

One peck of green tomatoes, slice them thin, add one pint of 
salt, cover with cold water, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; 
then chop very fine one head of cabbage, six onions, twelve 
green peppers ; then cover it with hot vinegar, drain it through a 
sieve, add one pint of molasses, one tablespoon cloves, allspice, 
two ounces of white mustard seed and cover with cold vinegar. 

SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. P. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced ; 
sprinkle through them one teacup of salt, let them stand over 
night; drain off in the morning; take two quarts of water and 
one of vinegar, boil the tomatoes and onions five minutes; drain 
through a colander, take four quarts of vinegar, two pounds of 
brown sugar, one-half pound of ground mustard, two tablespoons 
of cloves, two of ginger, twO of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of 
cayenne pepper, or instead five or six green peppers chopped; 
boil fifteen minutes. This will keep good a year, if prepared 
according to •'he recipe, and is generally liked. 

• 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES. 

S. S. Peirce. 

One peck tomatoes, two quarts small white onions, one dozen 

green peppers, one cup salt, one cup sugar, one tablespoon of 

cloves, allspice, stick of cinnamon ; slice your tomatoes over 

night, and mix in the salt. In the morning drain off the water 

Exposition in Paris, in 1867, for "JPierfection of Preparation." 



248 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

and throw it away ; put all the ingredients together and let it 
come to a boil. Put away for use. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. John Corthell. 

Two heads of cabbage, two heads cauliflower, one dozen cu- 
cumbers, six roots of celery, six peppers, one quart of small 
white onions, two quarts of green tomatoes, cut into small pieces, 
and boil each vegetable separately until tender, then strain them. 
Two gallons of vinegar, one-fourth pound of mustard, one-fourth 
pound of mustard seed, o;ie pot of French mustard, one ounce 
of cloves, two ounces of turmeric ; put the vinegar and spices 
into a kettle and let them come to a boil ; mix the vegetables 
and pour over the dressing. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, one dozen onions, one dozen 
green peppers, (chopped fine,) sprinkle with salt, and let stand 
over night; then drain off the lime, cover it with vinegar, and 
cook one hour slowly ; drain again, and pack closely in a jar ; 
take two pounds sugar, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one pound 
of allspice, one each of cloves and pepper, one-half cup ground 
mustard, one pint horse-iadish, and vinegar enough to mix them; 
then, when boiling hot, pour it over the mixture in the jar, and 
cover tightly. 

CHOW-CHO\^. 

Mrs. Kine, 
Take a peck of cucumbers, one peck of onions, half a peck 
of string beans, three heads of cauliflower, three bunches of cel- 
ery, a half dozen sweet peppers ; soak the whole in strong salt 
and water over night ; in the morning scald them all in weak salt 
and water, but before scalding cut them into shape so that they 
will go easily into glass jars ; add three-quarters of a pound of 
mustard, two packages of curry powder, and six quarts of good 

Duryeas^ Satin Olosa Starch is the best and most economical. 



VALUABLE KECIPES. * 249 



vinegar ; put the mustard and curry powder into the vinegar, and 
let it come to a boil ; put the pickles into the cans, and pour the 
liquid over them while hot. Do not cover while scalding. 

CANTELOPE PICKLES. 

Mrs. Earle. 

Take fine ripe cantelopes, wash, pare and cut into small pieces, 
taking out the seeds ; cover them with vinegar for twenty-four 
hours ; throw away one quart of the vinegar to each quart re- 
maining, allow three pounds sugar to a dozen cantelopes, three 
ounces stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, two ounces of all- 
spice, (spices whole,) boil them with the vinegar, when well 
skimmed put in the fruit, boil fifteen minutes, then take out, boil 
and skim syrup, and pour boiling hot over the fruit. 



x>nxirsiB, 



The bubbling'^nd loud hissing urn 
Throws up a steaming column ; and the cups 
That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each ; 
So let us welcome peaceful evening in. 

— COWPER. 

TEA. 

When the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil, have ready a 
tin tea-steeper; pour into the tea-steeper just a very little of the 
boiling water, and then put in tea, allowing one teaspoonful of 
tea to each person. Pour over this boiling , water until the steep- 
er is a little more than half full ; cover tightly and let it stand 



Duryeas' Improt^ed Com Starch warranted the best. 



250 ' THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

where it will keep hot, but not to boil. Let the tea infuse for 
ten or fifteen minutes and then pour into the tea urn, adding 
more boiling water, in the proportion of one cup of water for 
every teaspoon of dry tea which has been infused. Have boil- 
ing water in a water pot, and weaken each cup of tea, as 
desired. Do not use water for tea that has boiled long. Spring 
water is best for tea, and filtered water next best. 



COFFEE. 

Cleanse the coffee, dry and roast the berries evenly but quick- 
ly, until they are browned to the centre, and are of a dark chest- 
nut color. Grind as you use it, keeping the rest in a closely 
covered glass can. Allow one heaping tablespoon of ground 
coffee for every person, and one or two over. Mix with the 
grounds, a part or whole of an egg, according to the amount of 
coffee used. Pour boiling water in the coffee-pot before using, 
and scald it well ; then put in the coffee and pour over half as 
much water as will be used. Let the coffee froth up, stir down 
the grounds, and let it boil for about five minutes ; then stand the 
coffee pot where it will be hot, (but not to boil the coffee,) for 
five or ten minutes longer. Mocha, is the richest and most 
delicate flavored coffee. Old Government Java is an excellent 
coffee, and more economical than Mocha. An excellent author- 
ity in coffee making allows to one pound of Mocha coffee, five 
quarts of water, made after the above recipe. 



CHOCOLATE. 

M. 

Scrape baker's chocolate fine, mix with a little cold water and 
the yolks of eggs well beaten ; add this to equal parts of milk 
and water, and boil well, being careful that it does not burn. 
Sweeten to taste and serve hot. 

Duryeaa' Satin Oloas Starch is the whitest, therefore the purest. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 251 



SODA CREAM. 

M. G. Band. 
Two and one-half pounds white sugar, one-eighth pound tar- 
taric acid, both dissolved in one quart of hot water ; when cold, 
add the beaten whites of three eggs, stirring well ; bottle for 
use. Put two large spoons of this syrup in a glass of cold water 
and stir in it one-fourth of a spoon of bicarbonate of soda. Any 
flavor can be put in the syrup. An excellent drink for summer. 

EGG-NOG. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 
Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs ; stir the yolks 
into a quart of rich milk, or thin cream ; add one-half pound of 
sugar; mix in one-half pint of rum or brandy. Flavor with a 
grated nutmeg. 

SANGAREE. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 
One-third of wine, ale or porter ; two-thirds of water, warm 
or cold ; stir in sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Flavor with nut- 
meg. By adding lemon juice you make what is called negus. 

MULLED CIDER. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 
Allow five eggs to a quart of cider, put a handful of cloves 
into the cider and boil it ; while it is boiling, beat the eggs in a 
large pitcher, adding to them as much sugar as will make the 
cider very sweet ; by the time the cider boils the eggs will be suf- 
ficiently light. Pour the boiling liquor on the beaten egg, and 
continue to pour the mixture from one pitcher to another until it 
foams lightly. Pour it warm into your glasses, and grate nut- 
meg over each. Port wine may be mulled in the same way. 

RASPBERRY ACID. 

Mrs. G. W. Pitkin, 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of water j 
pour it upon twelve pounds of red raspberries in a large bowl ; 



Dui^eas' Satin Gloaa Starch is the strongest and the whitest. 



••' 



252 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

let it stand twenty-four hours, strain it without pressing ; to a 
pint of this liquor, add one and one-half pounds of white sugar, 
stir until dissolves. Bottle but do not cook for several days, 
when it is ready for use. Two or three tablespoons in a glass 
of ice water will make delicious beverage. 

RASJPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. W. S. Walker. 

To four quarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to cover, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours ; scald and strain it ; add 
a pound of sugar to one pint of juice, boil it twenty minutes, 
and bottle j it is then ready for use and will keep years. To one 
glass of water, add a great spoonful. It is much relished by the 
sick. Very nice. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

Mrs. Bausher. 

To one pint of juice, put one pound of white sugar, one-half 
ounce of powdered cinnamon, one- fourth ounce mace, and two 
teaspoons cloves ; boil all together for quarter of an hour, then 
strain the syrup, and add to each pint a glass of French brandy. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Mrs. De Forest. 

Pare off the yellow rind of the lemon, slice the lemon and put 
a layer of lemon and a thick layer of sugar in a deep plate; cover 
close with a saucer, and set in a warm place. This is an ex- 
cellent remedy for a cold. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. Caroline L. Warner. 

One quart of juice, two quarts of water, three pounds of brown 
sugar; mix well until the sugar is all dissolved; set your keg or 
barrel in the cellar, where it can stand undisturbed ; fill with the 



Duryeas* Improved Corn Starch, the "Perfection of» 

" i 



// 



u 



■A. A 



/ I 



I f 




X. 



rsr 



m 



* • 

a 








1 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 25^ 



wine made as above; let it stand with the bung out until it has 
stopped working, then put in the bung and it will be fit for use 
in two months. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. A. W. D. ^ 

Put into a ten gallon keg, thirty pounds crushed sugar, ten 
quarts of juice, and fill up with water; leave open the bung, and 
as it works fill up with water. When done working, stop up 
the keg, 

RED CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. N. B. Iglehart. 

One gallon of juice, ten pounds of loaf sugar, two gallons of 
water ; the currants should be ripe, and fresh picked ; crush 
them and let them be well strained ; pour it on the sugar and 
add water until all the sugar is dissolved ; mix well, and put it in 
a strong cask in a cool cellar ; after it is done fermenting, bot- 
tle it. 

SPLENDID GINGER BEER. 

Mrs. H. L. Bristol. 

Five gallons of water, one-half pounds ginger root boiled, four 
pounds of sugar, one-dlght pound cream tartar, one bottle es- 
sence of lemon, one ounce of tartaric acid, one quart of yeast. 

HOP BEER. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

One handful of hops, boil an hour, strain, and add one pint 
of molasses, and enough water to make two gallons. When 
milk warm, add one cup or cake of yeast, let it stand over night, 
skim and pour it off from the yeast carefully ; add one tablespoon 
of wintergreen, and bottle for use. 



Preparation.^^ — Grand Expotrition, Paris, 1867. 



254 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



iiit&c^z.t.Aisf^0^s* 



What does Cookery mean ? It means the knowledge of all fruits and 
herbs and balms and spices, and of all that is healing and sweet in fields 
and groves, and savory in meats. It means carefulness and inventiveness, 
and watchfulness and willingness, and readiness of appliance. It means 
the economy of your great grandmother and the science of modern chem- 
ists. It means much tasting and no wasting ; it means English thorough- 
ness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality ; and it means, in fine, that 
you are to be perfectly and always ladies — loaf givers ; and as you are to 
see imperatively that everybody has something pretty to put on, so you 
are to see even yet more imperatively that everybody has something nice 
to eat. — RusKiN. 

• 

GENERAL HINTS. 

It is a matter of great convenience to have a covered tub or 
pail for sifted flour ready for use. It will save half the time in 
an emergency. 

Always sift soda, when not dissolved in hot water, through a 
fine wire sieve. 

Sugar for fried cakes should be dissolved in the milk, to pre- 
vent the cake from absorbing the lard while frying. 

Two kinds of coffee mixed, (Java and Mocha,) are better than 
•one alone ; but should be browned separately. 

Tea should never be boiled, but be sure the water boils that 
you use for steeping. From three to five minutes is sufficient 

Duryeas^ Satin Gloss Starch gives the best 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 255 



time; if it stands longer, the tea is apt to lose the aroma, and 
have the bitter taste of the leaf. 

An old house keeper of fifty years experience thinks the very 
best way of making coffee is to use the National Pot, no egg ; 
nothj#ig to settle is required, simply use a muslin bag, and let 
the water boil around it ten or fifteen minutes. A very impor- 
tant advantage is, that none of the aroma is lost by standing. If 
the "gude mon " of the home is late to breakfast, his coffee is 
late to breakfast, his coffee is just as nice and hot as when first 
made. 

When bread is like a honey comb all through, is the time to 
make it up in loaves. When the loaves do not retain the dent 
of the finger, it is ready for the oven. 

When meats are put in to roast, have no water in the pan. 
When.they begin to brown, is time enough for water. 

Chicken for salad is nicer cut with a knife than chopped in a 
bowl, and the celery should always be cut with a knife. 

If you would be a true economist, do not burn letters, 
envelopes, &c., but tear them across once or twice, and put 
them in the scrap bag for the rag man. 

A silver spoon put into a glass jar, will temper it so that it can 
at once be filled with anything hot, even to the boiling point. 



LIME WATER. 

Mrs. E. B. Lynde, Milwaukee. 

One of the most useful agents of household economy, if rightly 
understood, is lime water. Its mode of preparation is as follows : 
Put a stone of fresh unslacked lime about the size of a half-peck 
measure into a large stone jar or unpainted pail, and pour over 
it slowly and carefully, (so as not to slacken too rapidly,) a tea- 
kettle full, (four gallons,) of hot water, and stir thoroughly; let 
it settle, and then stir again two or three times in twenty-four 
hours. Then bottle carefully, all that can be poured off in a 
clear and limpid state. 



Finish, and is the easiest to use. 



256 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Uses. — It is often sold by druggists as a remedy for children's 
summer complaint, a teaspoonful being a dose in a cup of milk, 
and when the diarrhoea is caused by acidity of the stomach, it is 
an excellent remedy, and when put into milk gives no unpleasant 
taste, but rather improves the flavor. ^ 

When put into milk that might curdle when heated, it will 
prevent its so doing, and can then be used for puddings and 
pies. A little stirred into cream or milk, after a hot day or 
night, will prevent its turning when used for tea or coffee. 

It is unequalled in cleansing bottles or small milk vessels, or 
babies' nursing bottles, as it sweetens and purifies without leav- 
ing an unpleasant odor or flavor. 

A cupful, or even more, mixed in the sponge of bread or 
cakes made over night, will prevent it from souring. 

PRESERVING AUTUMN LEAVES. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

These may be easily preserved and retain their natural tints, 
or nearly so, by either of the following methods : As they are 
gathered they may be laid between the leaves of a magazine un- 
til the book is full, and left with a light weight upon them until 
the moisture of the leaves has been absorbed ; two or three thick- 
nesses of paper should intervene between the leaves. If the 
leaves are large or in clusters, take newspapers, lay them on a 
shelf and use in the same manner as above. 

Another method, is to iron each leaf with a middHng hot iron 
until the moisture is all out of them. Are best with out varnish. 

SKELETON LEAVES. 

Boil the leaves in equal parts of rain water and soft soap un- 
til you can separate the pulp from the skin; take them out into 
clear water ; lay the leaf to b^ cleaned on glass, the upper side 
of the leaf next to the glass; then, with a tooth-brush remove 
all pulp and skin, turn the leaf and repeat the process; when 
thoroughly done, put the leaf to bleach in this solution : One 

Duryeaa' ImproDed Corn Starch, "Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 257 



pound sal soda, dissolved in five pints rain water; one-half 
pound chloride of lime, in three pints water j allow twenty-four 
hours for the latter to dissolve. Strain out the sediment, and 
pour the clear solution of lime into the solution of sal soda. The 
result will be a thick butter-milk solution, otherwise the lime was 
not strong enough. Filter this until it is perfectly clear. For 
leaves, use one part of solution to one part of water ; for ferns, 
use the solution full strength. When perfectly white, remove to 
clear water ; let stand for several hours, changing two or three 
times; the last water should be a little blue; float out on paper, 
press in book when nearly dry. In mounting use mucilage made 
of five parts gum arabic, three parts white sugar, two parts of 
starch ; add a very little water, boil and stir until thick and white. 

FOR CRYSTALIZING GRASS. 

Mrs. Dudlam, Evanston. 

Take one and one half pounds of rock alum, pour on three 
pints of boiling water; when quite cool, put into a wide-mouth 
vessel, hang in your grasses, a few at a time. Do not let them 
get two heavy, or the stems will not support them. You may 
again heat alum and add more grasses. By adding a little color- 
ing, it will give variety. 

COLOGNE. 

Etta C, Springer. 

One ounce oil citronella, one ounce oil burgemot, and one 
ounce oil lemon, cut with equal quantities of 95 per cent, al- 
cohol. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One ounce of lard, one ounce spermaceti, one ounce camphor, 
one ounce almond oil, one-half cake of white wax; melt and 
turn into moulds. 

Excellent for FoodJ'^ — London Exposition, 1862. 



258 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One-half ounce each of camphor gum and white wax, sperma- 
ceti and sweet oil ; melt slowly the hard ingredients and then add 

the oil. 

COLD CREAM. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Four ounces sweet almond oil, .two of rose water, two of white 
wax, two of cocoa butter, two of spermaceti ; put a bowl in a 
pan of boiling water; cut the spermaceti, white wax and cocoa 
butter in small pieces; put them in the bowl, also the oil and rose 
water. When melted, stir contents until cold. 

TO BEAUTIFY TEETH. 

Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling water, 
and before it is cold, add one teaspoon of spirits of camphor ; 
bottle it for use. A teaspoon of this with an equal quantity of 
tepid water. 

HAIR TONIC. 

i\Irs. A. M. 

One-half ounce sugar of lead, one-half of lac sulphur, one 
quart of rose water, six tablespoons castor oil. 

FOR CLEANING HAIR BRUSHES. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Use spirits of ammonia and hot water ; wash them well and 
shake the water out, drying on a coarse towel ; they will look 
white and clean as new, little or no soap is needed. 

TO CLEAN HAIR BRUSHES. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Do not use soap, but put a tablespoon of harts-horn into the 
water, having it only tepid, and dip up and down until clean ; 

Duryeaa' Starchy the Prize Medal Starch of the world. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 259 

they dry with the brushes down, and they will be like new ones ; 
if you do not have ammonia, use soda; a teaspoon dissolved in 
the water will do very well. 

JAPANESE CLEANSING CREAM. 

One-fourth pound white castile soap, three ounces ammonia, 
one of ether, one of spirits of wine, one of glycerine; cut the 
soap fine and dissolve in one quart rain water ; then add four 
quarts rain water and then all the ingredients. For cleansing 
silks. 

FOR CLOTHES THAT FADE. 

One ounce of lead in a pail of rain water. Soak over night. 

TO WASH CALICO. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Blue calicoes or muslins will retain their color, if one small 
teaspoon of sugar of lead is put into a pail of water,.and the arti- 
cles washed in the water. / 

BLACK CALICOES. 

Wash black percales or calicoes, as usual, rinse in water with a 
strong solution of salt. This will prevent black from running, 
and also colors. 

TO WASH WOOLEN BLANKETS. 

Mrs. J. A. Packard. 

Dissolve soap enough to make a good suds in a boiling water, 
add a tablespoon of aqua ammonia; when scalding hot, turn over 
your blankets. If convenient, use a pounder, or any way to 
work them thoroughly through the suds without rubbing on a 
board. Rinse well in hot water. There is usually soap enough 
from the first suds, to make the second soft; if not, add a little 
soap and ammonia ; and after being put through the ringer, let 

DuryeoB' Improved (Jom Starch is made from the choicest com. 



260 TlIK HOME COOK BOOK. 

two persons, standing opposite, pull them into shape ; dry in the 

sun. White flannels may be washed in the same way without 

shrinking. 

TO WASH WOOLEN. 

E. A. Forsyth. 
To every pail of water, add one tablespoon of ammonia, and 
the same of beef gall; wash out quickly, and rinse in warm 
water, adding a very little beef gall to the water ; this will re- 
move spots from carpets, making them look fresh. 

TO WASH CARPETS. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Spread the carpet where you can use a brush; take Irish po- 
tatoes and scrape them into a pail or tub of water and let them 
stand over night, using one peck to clean a large carpet; two 
pails of water is sufficient to let them stand in, and you can add 
more when ready to use ; add two ounces of beef gall and use 
with a brush, as to scrub a floor; the particles of potatoe will 
help cleanse; when dry, brush with a broom or stiff brush. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Mrs. A. P. Iglehart. ' 
Nine tablespoons unslacked lime, two pounds of sal soda, four 
quarts water; let this simmer half an hour, then bottle up, take 
a small teacup to a boiler of water. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 
One pound sal soda, one pound potash, each dissolved in one 
gallon of water, (separately;) then mixed together and bottle. 

TO MAKE GOOD STARCH. 

Mrs. D. 

Mix the starch with cold water, add boiling water until it 
thickens, then add dessert spoon of sugar, and a small piece of 
butter. Makes a stiff and glossy finish equal to laundry. 

The whitest, strongest and most economical Starch — Duryeas'. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 261 



AN EXCELLENT HARD SOAP. 

Mrs. Kate Johnson. 

Pour twelve quarts soft boiling water on two and one-half 
pounds of unslacked lime ; dissolve five pounds sal soda in twelve 
quarts soft hot water ; then mix and let them remain from twelve 
to twenty-four hours. Pour off all the clear fluid, being careful 
not to allow any of the sediment to run off; boil three and one- 
half pounds of clean grease and three or four ounces of rosin 
in the above ley till the grease disappears ; pour into a box and 
let it stand a day to stiffen and then cut in bars. It is as well to 
put the lime in all the water and then add the soda. After pour- 
ing off the fluid, add two or three gallons of water and let it the 
lime and soda dregs a day or two. This makes an excellent 
washing fluid to boil or soak the clothes in, with one pint in a 
boiler of water. 

CLEANING SILVER. 

Mrs. O. L. Parker. 

Never put a particle of soap about your silver, if you would 
have it retain its original lustre. When it wants polish, take a 
piece of soft leather and whiting and rub hard. The proprietor 
of one of the oldest silver establishments in the City of Phila- 
delphia says that house-keepers ruin their silver in soap suds, as 
it makes it look like pewter. 

STOVE POLISH. 

Mrs. O. L. Parker. 

Stove lustre, when mixed with turpentine and applied in the 
usual manner, is blacked more glossy and more durably than 
when mixed with any other liquid. The turpentine prevents 
rust, and wlien put on an old rusty stove, will make it look as 
well as new. 

TO EXTRACT INK. 

To extract ink from cotton, silk and woolen goods, satufate 
the spot with spirits of turpentine and let it remain several hours ; 

Duryeaa' Satin Oioss Starch gives a perfect finish to lAnen. 
18 



262 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



then rub it between the hands. It will crumble away without 
injuring either the color or the texture of the article. 

PATENT SOAP. 

Five pounds hard soap, one quart ley, one-fourth ounce pearl- 
ash; place on the fire and stir well until the soap is dissolved; 
add one-half pint spirits turpentine, one gill spirits hartshorn and 
stir well. It is then fit for use. The finest muslins may be put 
to soak in this suds, and if left for a time will become beautifully 
white. A small portion of soap put into a little hot water, and a 
flannel cloth will save hard labor and a brush in cleaning paint. 

FOR BLEACHING COTTON CLOTH. 

Mrs. C. n. Wheeler. 

One gound of chloride of lime, dissolved and strained; put 
in two or three pails water ; thoroughly wet the cloth and leave 
it in over night; then rinse well in two waters. This will also 
take out mildew and is equally good for brown cotton or white 
that has become yellow from any cause, and will not injure the 
fabric. 

TO REMOVE TAR. 

Rub well with clean lard, afterwards wash with soap and warm 
water. Apply this to either hands or clothing. 

JAVELLE WATER FOR MILDEW STAINS. 

One pound of chloride of lime, two of washing soda, two gal- 
lons of soft water ; pour one gallon of boiling water to the in- 
gredients to dissolve them, adding the cold water when dissolved. 

COLORING COTTON CARPET RAGS. 

Mrs. S. I. Parker, Channahon, 111. 

Bluk. — For five pounds of cloth, take five ounces of cop- 
peras, with two pails of water in a tin or copper boiler ; set it 
over the fire till the copperas is dissolved and it begins to heat. 



No Biscuit so delicate as that made with '■'Richards^ Queen.'* 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 263 

then put in the cloth, stirring it fretjuently till it boils, one-half 
or three-fourths of an hour; then remove the cloth where it can 
drain; pour away the copperas water and take two ounces of 
prussiate of potash in about two pails of water in the same 
vessel; when it is well dissolved and hot, put in the cloth from 
the copperas water, stirring it thoroughly till it boils one-half an 
hour, then remove the cloth; add, (with care and caution, on 
account of the spattering which ensues,) one tablespoon of oil 
of vitriol, and stir it well in the dye; replace the cloth, stirring 
it briskly till it has boiled one-half an hour. Should be well 
rinsed and washed in clear water to prevent the dye from 
making it tender after coloring. 

YjiLLOw. — For five pounds of cloth, dissolve one-half pound 
of sugar of lead in a tub of warm water and twelve ounces of 
bi-chromate of potash in another tub of cold water ; soak, rinse, 
and wring the cloth in the leak water first, then in the other, and 
return from one to the other till the right shade of color is ob- 
tained. 

Orange. — Dip the yellow colored cloth in strong lime water 
— if it should not turn, boil it, rinse all well. 

Grken. — Put your blue cloth in the yellow dye in the same 
manner as for coloring yellow. Old calico will take a darker 
shade of blue or green in the same dye with the white cloth. 

TO BOIL CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. E. A. Forsyth. 

Put into boiling water when you put it on to cook, and do 
not take it out of the pot when done, until cold. This will leave 
the meat juicy, instead of dry, when cold. 

FOR PRESERVING EGGS. 

Mrs. B. F. Adams. 

To one pint of unslacked lime and one pint of salt, pour one 
pail full of boiling water; when cold, pour over the eggs, having 
placed them in ajar or tub, with the small end of the egg down. 



We advise the use of *' Richards^ Queen*' for making light biscuit. 



264 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CLEANING MARBLE. 

Mrs. Gray. 

Dissolve a large lump of Spanish whiting in water which has 
previously dissolved a teaspoon of washing soda; take only suf- 
ficient water to moisten the whiting, and it will become a paste ; 
with a flannel cloth rub the marble well, leaving it on for a while 
and repeating the process two or three times, if necessary. 
Wash off with soap and water, then dry the marble well and pol- 
ish with a soft duster. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

No. I. Shellac varnish, linseed oil and spirits of wine, equal 
parts. 

No. 2. Linseed oil, alcohol, equal parts. 

No. 3. Linseed oil five ounces, turpentine two ounces, oil of 
vitriol one-half ounce. 

CLEANING WHITE PAINT. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Spirits of ammonia, used in sufficient quantity to soften the 
water, and ordinary hard soap will make the paint look white 
and clean with half the effort of any other method I have ever 
tried. Care should be taken not to have too much ammonia, or 
the paint will be injured. 

HARD SOAP. 

Mrs. Mary A. Odell. 

Six pounds of clean grease, six pounds of Sal Soda, three 
pounds of stone lime ; slake the lime and put it into four gallons 
of soft water ; add the sal soda, and when dissolved let it settle. 
Pour off the water into an iron kettle, and add the grease melted, 
and boil. If the soap does not come after boiling a few minutes, 
add more soft water till it is of the consistency of honey. Wet 
a tub and pour the hot soap into it. When cold, cut it into pieces 
and lay it away to dry. Always make soap in an iron kettle. 

( Duryeaa^ Improved Corn Starch received the Medal at the Grand 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 266 



T8« &tGM. B^OM* 



EGG GRUEL. — Boil eggs from one to tliree hours until hard enough 
to grate; then boil new milk and thicken with the egg, and add a little 
salt. Excellent in cases of nausea. — Mrs. Bartlett. 

GRUEL FOR INFANTS. — To make a gruel for infants sufil'ering from 
marasmus, take one pint of goat's milk and the yolks of two eggs boiled 
sufficiently hard to reduce to an impalpable powder; add a pint of boiling 
water, a little salt or sugar and administer by a nursing bottle. — Dr. Small. 

BEEF TEA. — To one pound of lean beef add one and one-half tumblers 
of cold water; cut the beef in small pieces, cover and let it boil slowly for 
ten minutes, and add a little salt after it is boiled. Excellent. 

PANADA. — Two thick slices of stale bread half an inch in thickness; 
cut off the crust, toast them a nice brown, cut them into squares of two 
inches in size, lay them in a bowl, sprinkle a little salt over them and pour 
on a pint of boiling water. 

REMEDY FOR CANCER.— Col. Ussery, of the Parish of De Soto, in- 
forms the editor of the Caddo Gazette, that he fully tested a remedy re- 
commended by a Spanish woman, native of the country. Take an egg 
and break it, pour out the white, retaining the yolk in the shell ; put in 
salt, mix with the yolk as long as it will receive it ; stir them together un- 
til the salve is formed ; put this on a piece of sticking plaster and apply it 
to the cancer twice a day. 

A citizen of Philadelphia used a weak solution of carbolic acid, as awash 
to neutralize the offensive odor arising from a cancer, discovered that the 
latter was removed by the application. The solution consisted of one- 
fourth of an ounceof acid, diluted in a quart of water. — Mrs. R.A.SiBLKY. 



Exposition in Parim, in 1867, for ''Perfection of Preparation^ 



2()fi THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



FEVER AND AGUE. — Four ounces galangal root in a (juart of gin, 
steeped in a warm place; take often. — Mrs. R. A. Sibi.ey. 

SMALL POX REMEDY.— The following remedy a friend tried in 
Ohio in case of confluent small pox, when the Doctor had little hope of 
saving the patient, and it saved the woman's life. The remedy is sure in 
scarlet fever, *' I herewith ap])end a recipe which has been used to my 
own knowledge in a hundred cases. It will prevent or cure the small pox, 
even though the pittings are filling. When Jenner discovered cow-pox in 
England, the world of science Ivurled an avalanche of fame upon his head, 
and when the most scientific school of medicine in the world (that of 
Paris,) published this panacea for the small pox, it passed unheeded. It 
is unfailing as fate, and conquers in every instance. It is harmless when 
taken by a well person. It will also cure scarlet fever. Take sulphate of 
zinc, one grain ; fox glove, {digitalis,) one grain ; half a teaspoon of water. 
When thoroughly mixed, add four ounces water. Take a spoonful every 
hour, and either disease will disappear in twelve hours. For a child, 
smaller doses, according to age. 

FOR HYDROPHOBIA.— Franklin Dyer, ahighly respectable farmer of 
Galena, Kent County, Md., gives the following as a sure cure for the bite 
of a mad dog." He has tested it with most gratifying results: Elecam- 
l)ane is a plant well known and found in many gardens. Immediately af- 
ter being bitten, take one and a half ounces of the root of the plant, the 
green root is preferable. The dried, to be found in drug stores, will an- 
swer ; bruise it, put it in a pint of fresh milk, boil down to half a pint, 
strain, and when cold, drink it, fasting at least six hours afterwards. The 
next morning repeat the dose, fasting; using two ounces of the root. On 
the third morning, take another dose prepared as the last, and this will be 
sufficient. After each dose, nothing to be eaten for at least six hours. I 
had a son who was bitten by a mad dog, eighteen years ago, and four oth- 
er children in the neighborhood were also bitten. They took the above, 
and are now alive and well. I have known many who were cured. It is 
supposed that the root contains a principle, which, being taken up by the 
lilood in its circulation, conteracts or neutralizes the deadly effect of the 
virus of hydrophobia. I feel so much confidence in this simple remedy, 
that I am willing you should give my name in connection with this state- 
ment. ' 

FOR FELON. — Take common rock salt, as used for salting down pork 
or beef, dry in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with spirits of turpen- 
tine in equal parts ; put it in a rag and wrap it around the parts affected ; 

We advlxe the use of ^ Richards^ Queen Baking Powder, ^^ 



VALUABLE RECIPK»«. 267 



as it gets dry, put on mure, and in twenty-four hours you arc ciinil. Tlic 
felon will be dead. No harm to try it, as I have with success. 

CURE FOR NEURALGIA.— A friend who suffered horrible pains 
from neuralgia, hearing of a noted physician in Germany who invariably 
cured the disease, went to him, and was jiermanently cured after a short so- 
journ. The Doctor gave him the remedy, which was nothing but a poul- 
tice and tea made from our common field thistle. The leaves are macerat- 
ed and used as a poultice on the parts affected, while a small quantity of 
the same is boiled down to the proportion of a quart to a pint, and a 
small wine glass of the decoction drank before each meal. Our friend 
says he has never known it to fail of giving relief, while in almost every 
case it has effected a cure. God gave herbs for the healing of the nations. 

FOR HOARSENESS. — Squeeze the juice of half a lemon in a pint 
bowl, add loaf sugar, (two tablespoons,) one full teaspoon of glycerine, 
and one full tablespoon of whiskey ; pour over this boiling hot water to 
nearly fill the bowl, and drink hot just before going to bed. 

FOR SORE THROAT.— Cut slices of salt pork or fat bacon ; simmer a 
few moments in hot vinegar, and apply to throat as hot as jiossible. When 
this is taken off, as the throat is relieved, put around a bandage of soft 
flannel. A gargle of equal parts of borax and alum, disxilved in water, is 
also excellent to be used frequently. 

HEALING LOTION. — One ounce glycerine, one ounce rosewater, ten 
drops carbolic acid. This preparation prevents and cures chapping of the 
skin, and at the same time bleaches it. It is also excellent for sore lips 
and gums. I consider it an indisjiensible adjunct to the toilet table. — 
Miss A. Yocum, Cairo, III. 

TO STOP BLEEDING.— A handful of flour, bound on the cut.— Mrs. 
A. M. 

TO PREVENT CONTAGION , FROM ERUPTIVE DISEASES.— 
Keep constantly in plates or saucers, sliced raw onions in the sick room, 
as possible. As fast as they become discolored, replace by fresh ones. 
During any epidemic of skin diseases that are eruptive, onions, except 
those taken fresh from one earth, are unsafe, as they are peculiarly sensi- 
tive to disease. 

TO RESTORE FROM STROKE OF LIGHTNING.— Shower with 
cold water for two hours; if the patient does not show signs of life, put 
salt in the water, and continue to shower an hour longer. 

FOR TOOTH-ACHE.— Of powdered alum and fine salt, equal .|uanti- 
ties ; apply to the tooth and it will give speedy relief. — Mrs. Bartlett. 



When in haste gov wish to make delicate light crnrf ri'hif*> bread. 



268 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



FOR HEADACHE. — Pour a few drops of ether on one-half ounce of 
gum camphor and pulverize ; add to this an equal quantity of carbonate 
ammonia pulverized ; add twenty drops peppermint ; mix and put in an 
open mouthed bottle and cork. — Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

SALVE FOR CHILBLAINS.— Fry out nicely a little mutton tallow ; 
into this while melted and after it is nicely strained, put an equal quanti- 
ty of coil oil ; stir well together while it is cooling. 

TO REMOVE DISCOLORATION FROM BRUISES.— Apply a cloth 
wrung out very hot water, and renew frecjuently until the pain ceases. 
Or, apply raw beef steak. 

CURE FOR WASP STING.— Apply a poultice of saleratus water and 
flour, and bind on the sting. Apply slices of raw onion for a bee sting. 

CURE FOR SUMMER COMPLAINT.— Two ounces tincture rhubarb, 
one i^f paregoric, one-half of esseiice of peppermint, one-half of essence of 
annis, one-half of prepared chalk. Dose for adult, one teaspoon in a little 
water; take as often as needed. — Mrs. L. Bradley. 

THE BEST DEODORIZER.— Use bromo-chloralum in the proportion 
of one tablespoon to eight of soft water; dip cloths in this solution and 
hang in the rooms ; it will purify sick rooms of any foul smells. The sur- 
face of anything may be purified by washing well and then rubbing over 
with a weakened solution of bromo-chloralum. 

A weak solution is excellent to rinse the mouth with often, when from 
any cause the breath is offensive. It is also an excellent wash for sores 
and wounds that have an offensive odor. 

TO DESTROY BED BUGS, MOTHS AND OTHER VERMIN.— 
Dissolve alum in hot water, making a very strong solution ; apply to furni- 
ture or crevices in the walls with paint brush. This is sure destruction to 
these noxious vermin, and invaluable because easily obtained ; is perfectly 
safe to use, and leaves no unpleasant traces behind. When you suspect 
moths have lodged in the borders of carpets, wet the edges of the carpets 
with a strong solution ; whenever it reaches them, it is certain death. 



Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch, the ^^ Perfection of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 2(^ 



TASdX.% %7S^'0'£TTS. 



" Man in society is like a flower 
Blown in its native land ; 'tis there alone 
His faculties, expanded in full bloom, 
Shine out — there only reach their proper use." 

THE BREAKFAST. 

How to serve our food, is no less important than how to cook 
it. The aesthetics of eating have an effect upon our lives that is 
far-reaching and most powerful in its influences. Food served 
gracefully and without confusion, with the accompaniments of 
fruits, flowers, dainty table napery and beautiful forms in the 
service, are grateful to the senses; give zest to the most delicate 
appetite; and make the plainest meal a season of enjoyment. 
The great purpose of rules of etiquette, is to inculcate good man- 
ners, and thus render us mutually agreeable. That they have 
a solid basis in taste and good sense, is apparent to every one 
who will consider the subject; and while many ceremonious 
observances may seem at first sight frivolous to the sensible and 
practical person, those formalities that are practically useful are 
of importance, and should be generally adopted. We offer no 
apology for presenting in these pages a few hints upon social 
customs and formalities, feeling assured that to many they may 
prove both interesting and profitable. 

Preparation.^^— Orand Exposition, Paris, 1867, 



270 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



The decoration and arrangement of the table, is a very essen- 
tial point to be regarded, and can seldom be wholly left to the 
care of servants. The breakfast table, in accordance with this 
unceremonious repast, should be simply dressed. The damask 
table cloth and napkins; the quaint and fanciful service of China; 
the shining urn and the glistening vessels of glass, all arranged 
symetrically, have a freshness very enticing to a morning's re- 
past. The centre of the table should be adorned with fruits and 
flowers, if they can be obtained. "A table," says a high au- 
thority upon these matters, " may be well set as expeditiously 
and with no more expense, than if every article was out of line 
with its fellows." 

The tea urn and cups and saucers should be placed in front 
of hostess, and so arranged that they may be used without clat- 
ter or confusion. Butter, which is in order at the breakfast 
table, should be served upon the small individual butter-plates. 
Bread is most elegantly served at breakfast, placed first on the 
table in the bread-tray in the loaf, and then cut by a servant at 
the side-board, as desired. Coffee and tea are stylishly served 
at the close of the meal, though this is a custom not always 
favorably regarded among ceremonious people at breakfast. 

An authority upon table etiquette says that when the drinker 
leaves his spoon in the tea or coffee-cup, it is an indication that 
he has had enough; when it is placed in the saucer, the hostess 
may understand that another cup is wished. The order of serv- 
ing viands, as at present observed in some fashionable circles, 
-may be found in our arrangement of bills of fare. 

DINNER. 

*• Dinner best lubricates business." 
In laying the cloth for dinner, the table should be first covered 
with a white cloth, over which is spread a fine white damask 
table cloth. This is now rarely removed for dessert, because 
large damask cloths or napkins are placed under dishes liable to 
soil the cloth, and are easily removed with the last course, while 
the adornments of the table are not so easily displaced as for- 



We wish to impress upon all the necessity of using 



VALUABLE REClPkS. 271 



nierly. Gracefully shaped epergnes, conipo>etl of crystal and 
silver, are very handsome, and when arranged with low plates 
or branches and shallow dishes to hold bon-bons, fruits, flowers 
and ferns, artistically mingled, the effect is always pleasing to 
the eye. 

At elaborate dinners and suppers, the centre ornament is usu- 
ally a candelabrum, a plateau, and epergne or a vase of flowers. 
The mats for the various dishes arranged, the ornamental vases 
are placed between the bottom and the top dishes or wine cool- 
ers, with the wines in the original bottles loosely corked. The 
spoons for helping the various dishes — asparagus tongs, fish 
knife and fork, or slice and carving forks — are placed in front 
of the respective dishes to which they belong, and knife-rests and 
a bill of fare opposite to those who are to carve. Small boquets 
are often placed upon the napkin of each guest, and many of the 
dishes may be tastefully decorated with leaves and flowers. At 
stylish dinner parties, aii ornamental card tastefully designed 
is often laid upon each plate, with the name of the guest upon 
it. Lights at or after dinner, should be subdued, and, if possi- 
ble, above the guests, so as to be shed upon the tables without 
interrupting the view. White kid-gloves are worn at large din- 
ner parties, but are taken ofl" before the knives and forks are 
brought into requisition. Beside the napkin should be placed a 
small square piece of bread, three inches in width and thickness; 
or rolls may be used instead. Butter is never in order for din- 
ner. 

The arrangement of silver and cutlery upon the table varies 
with the style of the entertainment. Care should be taken that 
each guest is provided with silver spoons and cutlery for the dif- 
ferent viands served. At dinner two large knives and forks are 
needed — knives at the right and forks at the left of the plate; 
also, a soup spoon, and when dessert is served, a silver knife, 
fork and spoon are placed upon the dessert plate, with a glass 
finger-bowl and doily at the left. The guest places the knife 
and spoon at the right side and the fork at the left of the 
doily with the finger-bowl upon it, and when the re- 

^' Richards' Queen" in making Biscuifn, Cakes, Bread or Rolls. 



272 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



past is finished, he dips his fingers into the bowl, and. then 
dries them upon the napkin. In some circles, the fashion pre- 
vails of placing finger-glasses just preceding dessert; while in 
others cut-glass bowls, partially filled with rose or orange flower 
water, iced in summer and lukewarm in winter, are passed down 
each side of the table, into which the guest dips the corner of 
the dinner napkin and just touches the lips and tips of the fingers. 

When wines are used, each guest should be provided with 
three glasses of different styles, one for claret wine, one for 
madeira or sherry, and one for champagne. When the latter is 
served, it is handed around upon a waiter or salver, commenc- 
ing at the right hand side of the table, (from the top and bottom 
simultaneously,) without distinction as regards ladies and gen- 
tlemen ; or, instead of being handed upon a salver, the bottle 
being enveloped in a clean dinner napkin as far as the neck, the 
servants pour the wine into the glass at the right hand of the 
guest. Liquors are served when the sweets are on the table. It 
is not customary now, as formerly, to drink healths. The ser- 
vant passes the wine and you accept or decline, at pleasure. If 
you do not drink it, quietly cover the top of your glass with your 
fingers, saying, " Please excuse me." 

Raw oysters or clams upon the shell are usually the first course 
at dinner; then follows the soup of which every one partakes. 
At dinners there will often be two kinds of soup, one dark col- 
ored and the other white, of which you may take your choice. 
(Never be helped to soup twice.) Then the fish should be served 
with sauce, sliced lemons and jelly. The second course consists 
of roasts — turkey or fowls, game, ham garnished, tongue, orfric- 
andeau, with small dishes for corners, curries, ragouts or vege- 
tables. 

For formal occasions, however, the Russian mode or the diner 
a la jRussc, has become fashionable. The dishes, when this style 
is adopted, are not served until cut up, when they are handed in 
succession to each guest by the waiters. The plates of soup are 
generally put on the table before the guests are called in, and a 
bill of fare, as well as the name of each person, to indicate the 



Diiryeas^ Improved Corn Starch, ^^Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 273 

seat he is to take, printed or written upon a card, is placed upon 
the napkin. 

Dishes served should always be handed to the left of the guest. 
This custom is the most convenient, and withal, the correct 
thing. 

Salads should be served after the meats and just before the 
dessert. 

THE DESSERT. 

When the party is large and ices are served, the ice-plates are 
placed around the table, the ices at both ends, and dishes of 
wafer biscuits at the sides. Some persons have the ice served in 
glass dishes, which, together with the wafer biscuits, are handed 
around before the usual dessert. When there is preserved ging- 
er, it follows the ices, as it serves to stimulate the palate, so that 
the delicious coolness of the wines may be better appreciated. 
The side and corner dishes usually put on for dessert, consist of 
compotes in glass dishes ; frosted prints served on lace paper in 
small glass dishes ; and biscuits plain and fancy with fresh fruit. 
Coffee should always be the last thing served, and handed 
around in cups ; should be very strong and taken without cream 
or sugar. When the dinner is over, the hostess gives the signal 
by rising from the table and all return to the drawing-room. 
Here tea and coffee are provided. Unless additional company 
has been invited for the evening, the guests soon after take their 
leave. The present style of taking coffee at the close of both 
breakfast and dinner, is a healthful custom and should be gener- 
ally adopted on hygienic principles. 

TEAS. 

Those Attrc nights and those refections of the Gods. 

— CURRAN. 

After-dinner teas stylishly consist of simple refections of cups 
of fragrant tea and coffee, served with cream and sugar, accom- 
panied with thinly cut slices of rolled bread or sandwiches, wafer 



Excellent for Food.'^ — London Exjiosition, 1862. 



274 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

biscuits, and sometimes mixed cakes. Hot suppers are .now 
seldom served. Late dinners are in order with simple refections 
later. Russian tea is made in the ordinary way, with the addi- 
tion of sliced lemon, and is very much in vogue. 

LUNCHES. 

It seems he had taken 

A light breakfast^ — bacon, s. 

An egg with a little broiled haddock, at most 
A round and a half of some hot buttered toast. 
With a slice of cold sirloin from yesterday's roast ;. 

And then — let me see — ! 

He had two — perhaps three — 
Cups, (with sugar and cream,) of strong gun-powder tea, 
With a spoonful in each of some choice eati de vie. 

— Hood: 

Of late years, the Luncheon or Jejeinicr a la foiircJieUc has taken 
its place in society as a ceremonious repast. At these recep- 
tions, tea and boiiilloti in cups, (which is simply beef froth.) 
chocolate and cakes are served. These repasts, however simple 
or elaborate, are set before the guests at once. When only one 
or two partake of the meal, it is served on a tray ; but when there 
are a number of guests, the table is laid at once. 

Refreshments at matinees, wedding receptions and dancing 
parties, are stylishly served, as at New Year's receptions, where 
servants in attendance help the guests to refreshments, which 
are laid in a side room or the dining room. 



All of our leadincj Hotel a of Chicago are now using 



VALUABLE RECIPKS. 'iT/) 



S«.t.S OS" FAJI«: 



In the accompanying Bills of Fare, the arrangement of the 
various courses will be suggested by the form in which they are 
given : 

MENU. 

BREAKFAST— No. 1. 

Fjnj; Hominy. Buttered Toast. 

Beefsteak. 

French Rolls. Potatoes a la Creme. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 2. 

' Boiled Spiing Chickens. 

Parker House Rolls. Saratoga Potatoes. 

Scrambled Eggs. Fried Oysters. 

Rye and Indian Loaf. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 3. 

White Fish. Potatoes. 

Muffins. 

Fried Ham. Egg Omelette. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

, <l : 

"Richards' Queen Baking Powder;^* it makes Biscuit very light. 



276 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



LUNCHES. 



LUNCH PARTY— No. 1. 

Beef Tea, served in small porcelain cups. 

Cold Chicken and Oyster and other forms of Croquettes. 

Chicken Salad. Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Tutti Frutti. Chocolate Cream. 

Cake Basket of Mixed Cake. 

Mulled Chocolate. 

Mixed Pickles. Biscuits, etc. 

Ice Creams and Charlottes can either be added or substituted. For twenty 

guests, allow one gallon. • 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 2. 

Broiled Partridge. 

Oyster Pie. Cold Ham. 

Sweet Pickles, Sandwiches. 

Pound and Fruit Cake, Pyramids of Wine Jelly. 

Blanc Mange. Snow Jelly. 

Pineapple Flummery. 

Kisses, Macaroons. Ice Creams. 

DINNERS. 

DINNER No. 1. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Oyster Soup, with Celery. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Roast Turkey. 

Croquettes of Rice. Sweet and Irish Potatoes. 

THIRD COURSE. 

Quail on Toast. 

Vegetables. Pickles. Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Macaroni. Jelly. 

DESSERT. 

Almond Pudding. 

Mince Pie. Lemon Pie. 

Cheese. Fruits. Nuts. 

Coflee. 



The whitest, strongest and most economical Starch — Duryeas'. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 277 

DINNER— No. 2. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Raw Oysters. 
White and Brown Soup. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Boiled White Fish, with Sauce and Sliced Lemon. 

THIRD COURSE. 

Roast Beef. 

FOURTH COURSE. 

Roast Turkey. Ducks. 

Vegetables in season. Croquettes of Rice or Hominy. 

Cranberry Sauce. Currant Jelly. 

DESSERT. 

Cream Custard. Lemon Pie. 

Fruits. Nuts. 

Coffee. 



TEA COMPANY. 

Tea, Coffee. Chocolate. 

Biscuits. 

Oyster Sandwiches. Chicken Salad. 

Cold Tongue. 

Cake and Preserves. 

Ice Cream and Cake later in the evening. 

TEA COMPANY No. 2. 

Tea, Coffee or Chocolate. 

Escalloped or Fried Oysters. Muffins. 

Sliced Turkey and Ham. 

Cold Biscuits. 

Sardines and Sliced Lemons. 

Thin slices of Bread, rolled. Sliced Pressed Meats. 

Cake in variety. 

Duryeas' Improved Com Starch is made from the choicest corn. 
19 



278 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SUPPERS, 

SUPPER— No. 1. 

Cold Roast Turkey. Chicken Salad. 

Quail on Toast. 

Ham Croquettes. Fricasseed Oysters. 

Charlotte Russe. Vanilla Cream. 

Chocolate Cake. Cocoanut Cake. 

Mixed Cakes. 

Fruit. 

Coffee and Chocolate. 



SUPPER— No. 2. 

Cold Roast Partridges or Ducks. 

Oyster Patties. Cold Boiled Mam. Dressed Celery. 

Oyster or Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Raw Oysters, Chicken Croquettes or Fricasseed Oysters. 

Wine Jelly. Ice Cream. Biscuit Glace. Cakes. 

Fruits. Chocolate. Coffee. 

Pickles and Biscuits. 



Allowance of Snpies for an Enlerlainment. 

In inviting guests, it is safe to calculate that out of one hundred and fifty, 
but two-thirds of the number will be present. If five hundred are invited, 
not more than three hundred can be counted upon as accepting. 

Allow one quart of oysters to every three persons present. Five chick- 
ens, (or, what is better, a ten-pound turkey, boiled and minced,) and fif- 
teen heads of celery, are enough for chicken salad for fifty guests ; one 
gallon of ice cream to every twenty guests ; one hundred and thirty sand- 
wiches for one hundred guests; and six to ten quarts of wine jelly for each 
hundred ; for a company of twenty, allow three chickens for salad ; one 
hundred pickled oysters ; two molds of Charlotte Russe ; one gallon of 
cream, and four dozen biscuits. 



Duryeas' Satin Oloss Starch gives the beat 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 279 



Coll Lnncties for f aslilng Days or Oflier Days of Extra Lalior. 

Lunch No. i. — Cold corn beef, nicely sliced; baked po'.atoes; bread, 
butter and pickles. Dessert — mince pie and cheese. 

Lunch No. 2. — Chicken pie ; baked potatoes; rolled bread or biscuit. 
Dessert — cake and custard. 

Lunch No. 3. — First course ; Raw oysters, with lemon and crackers. 
Second course : Cold veal with jelly and Saratoga potatoes ; bread and 
butter. Dessert — cherry pie with cheese. 

Lunch No. 4. — Casserole of fish, with mushroom catsup ; bread with 
butter. Dessert — pie with cheese. 



EcoiioMcal Dluners. 



Sunday. — Roast beef; potatoes and greens. Dessert — pudding or pie ; 
cheese. 

Monday. — Hashed beef; potatoes and bread pudding. 

Tuesday. — Broiled beef ; vegetables; apple pudding. 

Wednesday. — Boiled pork; beans; potatoes; greens, and pie or rice 
pudding. 

Thursday. — Roast or broiled fowl; cabbage; potatoes; lemon pie; 
cheese. 

Friday. — Fish; potatoe croquettes; escalloped tomatoes ; pudding. 

Saturday. — A la mode beef; potatoes; vegetables; suet pudding and 
mince pie ; cheese. 



For such valuable information, Bills of Fare, &c., as have been derived 
from the following authorities, we would make due acknowledgement, viz: 
To The Practical Housekeeper, by Mrs. Ei.LET; The Housekeeper's Encyclo- 
pedia, by Mrs. Haskem. ; The Home Messenger Recipe Book; and Harper's 
Book of Decorum, 



Finish, and is the easiest to use. 



280 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



insriDEx:. 



SOUPS. 

PAGE. 

Beef Soup.. Julienne Soup.. Mutton Soup.. Veal Soup.. 
Swiss White Soup.. Turkey Soup.. Oyster Soup.. Lob- 
ster Soup.. Plain Calf-Head Soup.. Vermicelli Soup.. 
Gumbo Soup.. Ochra Gumbo.. Tomato Soup.. Mock 
Turtle Soup.. Green Pea Soup.. Corn Soup.. Turtle 
Bean Soup.. Black Bean Soup.. Potato Soup.. Force 
Meat Balls.. Egg Balls.. Noodles for Soup 5_14 

FISH. 

General Remarks.. To Boil Fish.. Boiled White Fish.. 
Turbot a la Creme.. Sauce for Boiled Fish.. Baked 
Halibut or Salmon.. Baked Black Bass.. Broiled 
White Fish.. Salt Mackerel.. Boiled Codfish.. Cro- 
quettes of Fish.. Eels.. Tongues and Sounds.. Chow- 
der.. Fish Chowder.. Potted Fish 14-19 

SHELL FISH. 

Oysters on the Shell.. Broiled Oysters.. Creamed Oys- 
ters.. Panned Oysters.. Stewed Oysters.. Escaloped 
Oysters.. Oyster Pie.. Oyster Patties.. To Fry Oys- 
ters.. Corn Oysters.. Fricasseed Oysters.. Macaroni 
with Oysters.. Pickled Oysters.. Lobster Chowder.. 
Lobster Croquettes.. ^Stuffed Crabs or Lobster.. Cl%m 
Fritters.. To Dress Crab.. Clam Stew 19-25 

Duryeas' Improved Com Starch warranted the best. 



VALUABI-E RECIPES. 281 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



PAGE. 



Boiled Fowl.. Roast Turkey or ('hicken.. Baked Chick- 
en.. Chicken Fricassee.. Fried Chicken.. Dressing for 
Chickens or Turkey.. Chicken Cheese.. Jellied Chick- 
en.. Chicken Pie.. Chicken Loaf.. Chicken Croquettes, 
Croquettes, Ducks.. Roast Gimse.. To Roast Wild 
Fowl.. Prairie Chickens.. Partridges and Quails.. 
Q,uail on Toast.. Pressed Chicken.. Pigeon Pie 25-31 

MEATS. 

General Rules.. Hints for Cooking Meats.. Roast Beef.. 
Beefsteak and jMushrooni.. Broiled Beefsteak.. A la 
mode Beef.. Beef with Tomatoes.. Mock Duck.. Beef 
Omelet.. Spiced Beef. Meat from Soup Bones.. Beef 
Croquettes.. To Boil Corn Beef. Preserved Beef. To 
Corn Beef. Boiled Tongue and Tomato Sauce.. Boil- 
ed Leg of Mutton.. Mutton a la Venison.. Mutton 
Chops.. Roast Veal.. Neck piece of Veal.. Veal Pie.., 
Pattie of Veal.. ,Veal Cutlet a la Fried Oysters.. Veal 
Loaf. Spiced Veal.. Jellied Veal.. Fricancieau.. Cro- 
quettes.. Sweet Breads.. Calf's Liver, Fried, Stewed.. 
To Roast Venison.. Roast Pig.. Head Cheese.. Souse.. 
Sausages.. Ham Sandwiches.. Boiled Ham.. Veal 
Omelet.. Travelling Lunch.. Omelet Souffle.. Fried 
Omelet.. Friar's Omelet.. French Omelet.. Boiled 
Omelet.. Baked Omelet.. Salting Pork.. Curing Hams.. 
Boiled and Baked Hams.. To Boil a Ham 31-48 

SAUCES AND SALADS. 

Drawn Butter.. Melted Butter or Parsley Sauce.. Mint 
Sauce.. Celery Sauce.. Egg Sauce.. Tomato Sauce.. 
Green Tomato Sauce.. Oyster Sauce.. Onion Sauce.. 
Chili Sauce.. Horse Radish Sauce.. Made Mustard.. 
Sauce Mayonnaise.. Curry Powdei% Maitra D'Hotel 

Duryeas^ Satin Oloas Starch is the whitest, therefore the purest. 



282 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Sauce.. Celery Vinegar.. Gooseberry Catsup.. Cucum- page. 
ber Catsup.. Currant Catsup.. Tomato Catsup.. Spiced 
Tomatoes,. Chicken Salad.. Sweet Bread Salad.. Lob- 
ster salad.. Fish Salad.. Veal Salad.. Potato Salad.. 
Cucumber Salad.. Tomato Salad.. Dressing for Salad.. 
Dressing for Lettuce.. Dressed Cabbage.. Hot Slaw.. 
Cold Slaw 49-62 

BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 

Relishes.. Oyster Stew.. Toast., French Toast.. Tongue 
Toast., Lemon Toast,. Fried Bread in Batter.. Cod- 
fish Balls,, Codfish Hash., Beef Hash.. Breakfast 
Steak.. Side Dish,, Ham and Eggs,, Breakfast Dish,. 
Potato Puffs., Rice cakes,. Chicken Croquettes.. Lap- 
landers for Breakfast.. Breakfast Gems,. Quick Sal- 
ly Lunn.. Rye Cake for Tea.. Rye Griddle Cakes.. 
Jolly Boys.. Graham Breakfast Cakes.. Tea Cake.. 
Cottage Cheese 62-69 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled Potatoes.. Potatoes and Cream.. Potatoes Fried.. 
Saratoga Fried Potatoes . Parsneps.. Baked Squash.. 
Fried Squashes.. Green Corn Oysters.. Green Corn 
Patties.. Succotash.. Boston Baked Beans.. Aspara- 
gus.. Baked Cabbage.. Escaloped Tomatoes.. Fried 
Egg Plant,. Maccaroni,. Yankee Baked Beans.. Baked 
Tomatoes.. Fried Tomatoes.. Tomato Hash 69-73 

/ 

PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

Pie Crust.. Cream Pie.. Philadelphia Butter Pie.. Squash 
Pie.. Custard Pie . Washington Pie.. Cocoanut Pie.. 
Polish Tartlets.. Lemon Tarts. Lemon Raisin Pie.. 
Lemon Pie.. Acid Pie.. Mince Meat.. Mince Pie.. 
Mock Mince Pie.. Shswn Mince Pie.. Vinegar Pie.. 

Duryeas.'' Satin Olosa Starch is the best and most economical, 
t 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 283- 



Rice Pie.. Fruit Pie.. Transparent Pie.. Puddings., page. 
Eve's Pudding.. Suet Pudding.. Fruit Pudding.. Poor 
Man's Pudding . Plum Pudding.. English Fruit Pud- 
ding.. Black Pudding. Bird's Nests.. Chocolate Pud- 
ding.. Cocoanut Pudding.. A Delmonico Pudding. 
Queen's Pudding.. Queen of Puddings.. Roly-Poly.. 
Railroad Pudding.. Rice Pudding.. Rice Pudding 
without Eggs.. Cottage Pudding,. Pudding in Haste.. 
Minute Pudding.. A Quick Pudding.. Boiled Indian 
Pudding.. Baked Jndian Pudding.. Indian Pud- 
ding.. Graham Pudding.. Sunderland Pudding.. 
Dandy Jack.. Pretty Pudding.. Webster Pudding.. 
Sponge Pudding.. Pound Cake Pudding.. Rome Pud- 
ding.. Astor House Pudding.. Batter Pudding.. Baked 
Batter Pudding.. Steamed Batter Pudding.. Amherst 
Pudding.. Corn Pudding.. Bread Pudding.. Baked 
Cracker Pudding.. Apple Bread Pudding.. Apple 
Pudding. Huckleberry Pudding.. Fig Pudding.. Cur- 
rant Pudding.. Muskmelon Pudding.. Fruit Pudding.. 
Sweetmeat Pudding.. Cherry Pudding.. Jelly Pud- 
ding.. Bakewell Puddings Kiss Pudding,. Meringue 
Pudding.. Corn Siarch Lemon Pudding.. Orange Pud- 
ding.. Cream Pufis.. Dessert Puffs,. Puff Pudding.. 
Molly Puffs,, German Puffs.. Dumpling for Pot Pie,. 
A Simple Dessert.. German Pudding.. An Excellent 
Dessert,. Chocolate Pudding.. Chocolate Puffs.. Snow 
Balls.. Cherry Pudding.. Widow Bedot Pudding.. 
Fruit Pudding.i Gipsy Pudding., Cracked Wheat Pud- 
ding.. Lemon Pudding.. Orange Pudding,, Apple 
Sago Pudding,. German Puffs., Rice Snow Balls,. Pud-, 
ding Sauces,. Foaming Sauce.. Wine Pudding Sauce.. 
Wine Sauce.. Pudding Sauce,. Sauce for Apple Pud- 
ding,. Hard Sauce for Puddings, Rice, &c.. Cold Tap- 
ioca Pudding:. Tapioca Pudding.. Cream Tapioca 
Pudding.. Snow Pudding 74-109 

Duryeas' Satin Gloss Starch is the strongest and the whitest. 



284 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, &c. page. 

Mrs. Grave's Custards.. Rice Custard.. Rich Custard.. 
Boiled Custard.. Chocolate Custard.. Sago Custard.. 
Apple Custards.. Caramel Custards.. Apple Souffle. 
Floating Island.. Apple Float.. Orange Float.. Spanish 
Cream.. Velvet Cream.. Chocolate Cream.. Apple 
Cream.. Caramel Cream.. Bavarian Cream.. Italian 
Cream.. Ice Cream.. Tanioca Meringue.. Spanish Me- 
ringues.. Swiss Meringues.. Melange.. Lemon Sponge.. 
Snow Souffle.. Snow and Ice Pudding.. Snow Pud- 
dings.. Charlotte Russe.. Apple Charlotte.. Charlotte 
Russe.. Rice Charlotte.. Fruit Blanc Mange.. Choco- 
late Mange.. Mont Blanc. Gelatine Blanc Mange. .. 109-122 

BREAD AND YEAST. 

General Directions.. Yeast.. Potato Yeast.. Goad Yeast.. 
Yeast that will not Sour.. Yeast (poetical).. Bread.. 
Excellent Bread.. Superior Bread.. Wheat Bread.. 
Rice Bread.. Mrs. Furlong's Brown Bread.. Steamed 
Brown Bread.. Rye and Indian Brown Bread.. 
Brown Bread.. Steamed Brown Bread.. Boston 
Brown Bread . Brown Joe.. Traveler's Bread.. Steamed • 

Bread.. Steamed Corn Bread.. Steam Loaf.. Corn 
Meal Bread.. .Indian Bread. Graham Bread.. Rolls.. 
Parker House Rolls.. Detroit Rolls.. French Rolls.. 
Ypsilanti Egg Rolls.. Brown Rolls.. Corn Meal Rolls.. 
Graham Rolls,. Tremout Biscuit.. Virginia Biscuit- 
Green Mountain Biscuits.. Light Biscuits.. French 
Biscuit.. Raised Biscuit.. Tea Biscuit.. Graham Bis- 
cuits.; Rye Biscuits.. Buns.. Rusks.. Soda Biscuit.. 
Strawberry Short Cake.. Orange Short Cake.. Apple 
Short Cake.. Sally Lunn.. Squash Cakes.. Cream 
Cakes.. Breakfast Cakes.. Tea Cakes.. Wheat Gems.. 
Graham Gems.. Pop Overs.. Corn Pop Overs.. Ro- 
settes.. Puffs.. Ypsilanti Cocoanut Puflfe.. Graham 



Duryeas'' ImproDcd Corn Start'li, '■'Exceedingly 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 285 



Puffs.. French Fritters.. Parsnip Fritters.. Green Corn page. 
Fritters.. Apple Fritters.. Spiced Sugar for Fritters.. 
Green Corn Cakes.. Graham Muffins.. Muffins.. Cin- 
namon Muffins.. Rye Muffins.. Indian Meal Muffins.. 
Corn Meal Muffins.. Waffies.. Rice Croquettes.. Corn 
Meal Pones.. Good Breakfast Cakes.. Bannocks.. In- 
dian Bannocks.. Stella's Corn Cake.. Corn Cakes.. 
Griddle Cakes.. Green Corn Griddle Cakes.. Rice 
Cakes.. Squash Griddle Cakes.. Quick Buckwheat 
Cakes.. Buckwheat Cakes.. Corn M"al Griddle Cakes.. 
Oat Meal Griddle Cakes.. Mush.. Oat Meal Gruel. .123-150 

Weights and Measures 160 

CAKES. 

Suggestions.. Icing.. Frosting.. Ice Cream Icing.. 
Chocolate Frosting.. Chocolate Icing.. Black 
Fruit Cake.. Best Black Cake.. Mother Dorches- 
ter's Black Cake.. Fruit Cake.. Farmer's Fruit Cake.. 
Dried Apple Cake.. Pork Fruit Cake.. Raised Cake.. 
Bread Cakes.. New England Thanksgiving Cake.. 
New England Election Cake.. A Plain Fruit Cake.. 
Fruit Cake.. Dough Cake.. Bread Cake.. Raised Loaf 
Cake.. French Loaf.. Quick Loaf Cake.. Pound Cake.. 
White Pound Cake.. Mountain Pound Cake.. Impe- 
rial Cake.. White Cake.. Prize Wliite Cup Cake.. 
White or Bride's Cake.. Snow Cake.. Delicate Cake.. 
Feather Cake.. Cream Cake.. Corn Starch Cake.. 
Lady Cake.. Lemon Cake.. Spice Cake. Clove Cake., 
Spice Cake.. Currant Cake.. Berry Cake.. Poor Man's 
Cake.. Coffee Cake.. Puff Cake.. Chocolate Cake.. 
Marble Cake.. Cochineal Marble Cake.. Leopard Cake.. 
Almond Cake.. Cocoanut Cake.. Hickory Nut Cake.. 
White Cup Cake.. Composition Cake.. Vanilla Cake.. 
Rebecca's Plain Cake.. Excellent Cake.. One Egg 



Excellent for Food." — London Exposition, 1862. 



286 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Cake.. Delicious Cake.. Tea Cake.. Tipsy Cake.. Tem- page. 
perance Cake.. Charity Cake.. Runaway Cake.. Sur- 
prise Cake.. Tumbler Cake.. Adams' Cake.. Clay 
Cake.. Harrison Cake.. Lincoln Cuke.. Cork Cake.. 
Wilmington Cake.. Evanston Cake.. Paradise Cake.. 
Kentucky Cake.. Bordeutbwn Cup Cake.. Idle Wild.. 
River Forest Cake.. Newport Tea Cake.. Soda Cake.. 
Gold Cake.. Silver Cake.. French Sponge Cake.. 
Cream Sponge Cake.. White Sponge Cake.. Mrs. 
Drew's Sponge Cake.. Cream Sponge Cake.. Delicate 
Sponge Cake.. Telegraph Sponge Cake.. Berwick 
Sponge Cake. Sponge Cake.. Xelly's Sponge Cake.. 
Soda Sponge Cake.. Mrs. Wilder's Sponge Ginger 
Bread.. Soft Ginger Bread.. Thin Ginger Bread.. 
Hard Gijiger Bread.. Mrs. Hamilton's Ginger Bread. 161-202 

LAYER CAKES. 

Gentleman's Favorite.. Impromptu Jelly Cake.. Jel- 
ly Cake.. Lemon Jelly Cake.. Apple Jelly Cake.. 
Chocolate Cake.. White Mountain Cake.. Yellow 
Mountain Cake.. Cocoanut Mountain Cake.. Cocoa- 
nut Cake.. Almond Cake.. Almond Cream Cake.. 
Boston Cream Cake.. Custard Cake.. Orange Cake.. 
Lemon Honey Cake 202-212 

SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 

Chess Cakes.. Finger Cakes.. Wine Cakes.. Doughnuts.. 
Fried Cakes.. Old Fashioned Yankee Doughnuts.. 
Doughnuts.. Fried Cakes.. Crullers.. Rusk Cookies.. 
Water Cookies.. Lemon Cookies.. Vanilla Cookies.. 
Boiled Cookies.. Everlasting Cookies.. Cookies.. Mo- 
lasses Cookies.. Whig- Jumbles.. Jumbles.. Rich 
Jumbles.. Excellent Jumbles.. Cocoanut Jumbles. 
Jackson Jumbles.. Sand Tarts.. Sugar Drops.. Cocoa- 
nut Drops.. No Matters.. Cookies.. Cinnamon Wafers.. 
Ginger Snaps.. Ginger Cakes.. Ginger Cookies 212-220 

Duryeas' Improved Corn Starch received the Medal at the Orand 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 287 



CONFECTIONERY. page. 

Candy.. Candy Caramels.. Chocolate Caramels.. Cocoa- 
nut Drops.. Cream Candy.. Kisses.. Molasses Candy.. 
Butter Scotch Candy.. Butter Scotch 221-223 



FRUITS. 

Oranges for Dessert.. Ambrosia.. Mock Strawberries 
and Cream.. Baked Apples.. Baked Pears.. Baked 
Quinces... Jellied Grapes.. Citron Preserves.. Preserved 
Quinces.. Preserved Orange Peel.. Spiced Peaches or 
Pears.. Canned Pine Apple.. Canned Strawberries.. 
Gooseberry Sauce.. Gooseberry Soy.. Cherry or Cur- 
rant Sauce.. Canned Currants.. To Can Tomatoes.. 
Cranberry Sauce.. Picnic Lemon Butter.. Lemon But- 
ter.. Peach Butter.. Tomato Butter.. Currant Catsup.. 
Apple Jelly.. Apple Jelly for Cake.. Crab Apple Jel- 
ly and Jam.. Grape Jelly.. Lemon Jelly.. Orange 
Jelly.. Currant Jelly.. Gooseberry Jelly.. Cider Jelly.. 
Champagne Jelly.. Wine Jelly.. Corn Starch Jelly.. 
Tapioca Jelly.. Gelatine Jelly.. Rhubarb Jam.. Grape 
Jam.. Gooseberry Jam.. Blackberry Jam.. Quince 
Jam.. Pine Apple Jam.. Orange Marmalade.. Spiced 
Currants.. Spiced Gooseberries 224-237 

PICKLES. 

Cherries.. Plums.. Apples.. Peaches.. Cucumbers.. Pre- 
pared Mustard.. Tomato Catsup.. Oude Sauce.. My 
Mother's Favorite Pickles.. French Pickles.. Mixed 
Pickles.. Cabbage.. West India Pickles.. Onions.. Mel- 
ons.. Cauliflower.. Brine for Cucumbers.. Congress 
Pickles.. For 600 Pickles.. Green Tomatoes.. Ripe 
Tomatoes.. Piccalilli.. Sweet Green Tomatoes.. Chow- 
Chow.. Cautelopes 238-249 

Exposition in Paris, in 1867, for ** Perfection of Preparation." 



288 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

DRINKS. PAGE. 

Tea.. Coffee.. Chocolate.. Soda Cream., Egg-Nog.. San- 
garee.. Mulled Cider.. Raspberry Acid.. Blackberry 
Syrup.. Lemon Syrup.. Currant Wine.. Ginger Beer.. 
Hop Beer 249-253 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

General Hints.. Lime Water.. Preserving Autumn 
Leaves.. Skeleton Leaves.. Crystalizing Grass.. Co- 
logne.. Camphor Ice.. Cold Cream.. To Beautify 
Teeth.. Hair Tonic. Cleaning Hair Brushes.. Japan- 
ese Cleansing Cream.. To Wash Calico.. Black Cali- 
coes.. Woolen Blankets.. Woolen.. Carpets,. Wash- 
ing Fluid.. To Make Starch.. Excellent Hard Soap.. 
Cleaning Silver.. Stove Polish,. To Extract Ink.. 
Patent Soap.. To Bleach Cotton Cloth.. To Remove 
Tar.. For Mildew Stain.. Coloring Carpet Rags.. Pre- 
serving Eggs.. Cleaning Marble.. Furniture Polish.. 
Cleaning White Paint 254-264 

THE SICK ROOM. 

Egg Gruel.. Gruel for Infants.. Beef Tea.. Panada.. 
For Cancer.. Fever and Ague, For Small Pox.. For 
Hydrophobia.. For Felon.. For Hoarseness.. For 
Sore Throat,. Healing Lotion,. To Stop Bleeding.. To 
Prevent Contagion.. To Restore from Stroke of Light- 
ning.. For Tooth-Ache,. For Head-Ache,. Salve for 
Chilblains,. To Remove Discoloration from Bruises.. 
For Wasp Sting.. For Summer Complaint.. Best 
Deoderizer.. To Destroy Vermin 265-168 

TABLE ETIQUETTE. 

Breakfast.. Dinner.. Dessert.. Tea.. Lunches,. Bills of 
Fare.. Allowance of Supplies for Entertainments.. 
Cold Lunches,. Economical Dinners 269-279 

Duryeas* Starch, the Prize Medal Starch of the world. 



i 



t 



; 



V, 



