Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 









i 



' Unto the boundless ocean of thy beanty 
Runs this poor river, charged with streams of zeal. 
Returning thee the tribute of my duty, 
Which here my love, my suit, my plaints reveaL 
Here I unclasp the book of my chai^ged soul, 
Where I have cast th' accounts of all my care : 
Here have I summed my thoughts ; here I enrol 
How they were spent for thee : look what they are, 
Look on the dear expenses of thy youth, 
And see how just I reckon with mine eyes : 

Examine well thy bearings with my truth ; t 

And mark thy cares ere greater sums arise. 

Read it, sweet girl, tho' it be done but slightly ; 

Who can show all his love, doth love but lightly.' ' 

— ^Earl of Surrey. 

I 

' Read, and fear not thine own understanding : this book will create a clear one ! I 

in thee ; and when thou dost consider thy purchase, thou wilt call the price of it a r 

charity to thyselt '—Shirley. 



THINGS A LADY WOULD I.IKE TO KNOW. 
{FnmtufiWr} 



THINGS 
A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW 

CONCERNING 

DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT AND 

EXPENDITURE 



ARRANGED FOR DAILY REFERENCE WITH 



Jisls ftgBtlring i\i |ntelhctttal B8 fojell B8 i\i '^\gAtvX %\lt 



BY 



HENRY SOUTHGATE 

AUTHOR OF ' UAMT THOUGHTS OP MANY MINOS/ ' NOBLB THOUGHTS IN NOBLB LANGUAGB/ 

'comb bbfobb/ 'bridal bouqubt/ btc btc btc 



SECOND EDITION 



' A jadidous woman that is diligent and religious is the very soul of a house : she gives orders for 
the good things of this life, and for thosb too op bterkity/— Bishop Horns. 

'Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good. 
Must love one another, as cousins in blood : 
The wiPB, too, must husband as well as the man. 
Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can.' 

TOSSBR. 




WILLIAM P. NIMMO: 
LONDON, 14 KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND; 

AND EDINBURGH. 
1875. 



2L%. a., lo^ 



MURRAY AND GIBB, BOINBVRGH, 
FSINTBRS TO MBK MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFPICB. 



DEDICATED TO MY DAUGHTER 



J U JL, I A. 



In hsrsblp she dwellbth not, 

Altho' no homs were half so fair; 

no simplest duty is forgot : 

Life hath no dim and lowly spot 

That doth not in her sunshine shark ! 



o 



Oh t Thou whose merciful decree 
Hast knit our hearts in bonds of love. 

Our sure defence and safeguard be. 
Whatever our wedded lot may prove. 

Without Thy blessing love is vain. 

The varied ills of life to bear ; 
But when bestowed, few griefs remain 

Beyond affection's healing care. 

Avert from us the spirit's chill, ' 

Each wand'ring thought and fickle mood ; 

Mould every feeling to Thy will, 
Incline our hearts to every good. 

Implanting deep that perfect trust, 
Of love's rich soil the flower most dear ; 

Tbm all our promised joys to dust, 
But leave that root unwithered here. 

Blend with our love that gentleness 
Which turns each angry word aside, 

Which stifles wrath with tenderness. 
And melts away the frost of pride. 



6 



PREFACE. 



6« on earth a poem of God's making/— Herdrkt. 

THE SPECTATOR, in one of those admirable papers which de- 
lighted a former generation, tells us that ^the utmost of a woman's 
character is contained in domestic life, and that there she is the most 
blameable or praiseworthy.* It is my design, in this Handbook of 
Domestic Management, to aid my Countrywomen, who aim to make an 
English home what it should be, in matters which are neither incon- 
siderable in themselves nor imimportant in their influence. Some of 
these will at once be accepted as worthy of consideration in the in- 
teresting affairs of home life ; others may seem trivial to those who, 
from inexperience, scarcely know how trifles affect the general result, or 
how much the wise management of little things tells upon the comfort 
and happiness of a household. In these days of general progress we 
expect to find some degree of refinement, as well as of comfort, in the 
domestic arrangements of persons in the middle class of English 
society. A cultivated mind will by a touch add embellishment to 
common things, and surround them, without much more cost than that 
of a little thought and interest, with something of grace and beauty. 
I( therefore, in this work I may sometimes seem to treat of trivialities, 
I would apply to them the words of Monckton Milnes (Lord Houghton) : 

'The world is wide, these things are small ; 
They may be nothing, but they are all.' 

The object of this book is to make the management of domestic 

aiSairs easy and interesting. I have examined many treatises on the 

same subject To the suggestions they have supplied I have added 

what occurs to me from my own experience and observation ; and as 

the result, there will be found in the following pages much to promote 

7 



8 PREFACE. 



the pleasantness and completeness of things in any household, and in 
particular^ in one of that laige and important middle class, the comfort 
and well-being of which cannot be too earnestly desired. 

May I venture to suggest, especially to the yoimg Mistress who has 
newly entered upon the responsibilities of that home-sphere in which 
woman's mission is mainly to be found, and where it may be most 
gracefully fulfilled, that a wise economy and management of things will 
tend, with God's' blessing, to secure the permanent happiness of the 
little kingdom in which she reigns, and light up with the brightness of 
content and satisfaction the face she most loves to see. My wish is, 
that she should not feel those responsibilities so heavily as to oppress 
her with care; and ^dth my manual as her daily companion, I am 
inclined to believe that she will feel her burden greatly lightened. I 
have striven not to overcrowd my pages, as that would bewilder rather 
than direct The Lady whom I am addressing is doubtless intellectual 
and accomplished ; she will therefore understand that the mind requires 
a good substratum of physical nourishment, and will also be able to 
appreciate the apt and wise words of the lamented Rev. F. W. Robert- 
son, of Brighton : 'The glory of womanhood is no common glory; it is 
that of unsensualizing coarse and common things, the objects of mere 
sense, meat and drink and household cares, — elevating them by the 
spirit in which she ministers them into something transfigured and 
sublime.' 

HENRY SOUTHGATE. 



WOODBINB, SiDMOUTB 

Devon. 



CONTENTa 



* We ooBtcBt ouxsehres to present to thinking minds the original seeds from whence spring vast 
fields of new theorie* that maj be further cultiTated, beautified, and enlarged.'— Thb Chbvaluk 
Rasisat. 

FAGB 

PftELUDE OF Mottoes expressive of what all Good Men think of 

Women ......... ii 

Marketing ......... 17 

General Remarks on Cookery . . .18 

Dinners arranged for Every Day in the Year, and Dessert 
FOR Every Month, with due Attention to the Things in 

Season ..... ... 27 

Party Dinners .... ^ ... 375 

Breakfasts ........ 425 

Tea • ......... 427 

Suppers ......... 429 

Vegetables — ^a few Hints as to their Cooking, etc. . . 436 

Salads ......... 439 

Sauces ......... 443 

Pickling ......... 454 

Summer Beverages, Liqueurs, etc. ..... 457 

Confectionery, Cakes, and Preserves .... 460 

Household Recipes ....... 473 

Hints oit Travelling ....... 477 

Dress, etc. ......... 480 

Recifbs for Accidents and Slight Physical Derangements . 4S8 

The Garden and Gardening ...... 496 

Hints for the Angels of our Household, chiefly as touching 

Deportment and Conduct in Life ..... 508 

Prater, etc. ••...... 528 

Index ......••• 537 



PRELUDE OF MOTTOES 



EXPRESSIVE OF 



WHAT ALL GOOD MEN THINK OF WOMEN. 



In garnering together these few mottoes, expressive of what all true and 
good men think of the gentle sex, I have had no difficulty. The brave 
and generous spirits of all times have ever been ready to speak out of the 
simple abundance of their hearts ; hence I have had rather to curtail the 
riches of literature on this theme, than delve for it. And the motive I have 
for binding this bouquet together as a free-will offering to the maidens, the 
mothers, and the matrons of the world, is simply to let them know that loving 
specimens of each have ever existed, and will exist, to bless and humanize 
our rougher sex. A loving woman is an angel in the house, her presence 
and influence have ever been on the right side. From our earliest infancy 
woman moulds us, and the greatest men have ever willingly and cordially 
acknowledged a mother's love and early training. How great, then, is your 
responsibility ! As you plant, so shall the harvest yield ; as you bend, so 
shall the tree grow. Our future is imdoubtedly in the hands of woman ; and 
it could not be in better hands. How truly Shakspeare thought, when he 
wrote of you as ' the books, the arts, the academies, that show, contain, and 
nourish all the world* ! Assuredly this is so, and with all my heart I endorse 
his most excellent judgment. I cannot do better than close these few 
proemial observations by quoting the inspired words of the wisest man who 
ever lived : — 

' A Tirtaous woman I her price is far above rubles. 

'The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of 
q)oiL 

' She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. 

*She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. 

'She is like the merchants' ships ; she bringeth her food from afar. 

'She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a 
ponkm to her maidens. 

'She considereth a field, and buyeth it : with the fruit of her hands she planteth a 
vineyard. 

'She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. 

' She peroeiveth that her merchandise is good : her candle goeth not out by night 

'She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. 

'She stretcbeth out her hands to the poor ; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the 



'She is not afraid of the snow for her household : for all her household are clothed 
vithscaileL 

'She maketh herself coverings of tapestry ; her clothing is siUc and purple. 
' Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the eldei-s of the land. 
' She maketh fine linen, and selleth it ; and delivereth girdles unto the merchants. 

U 



12 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES, 

'Strength and honour are her clothing, and she shall lejoioe in time to come. 
' She openeth her mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. 
' She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. 
' Her children arise up, and call her blessed ; her husband also, and he pxaiseth her. 
' Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. 
' Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates.' 

Proverbs xxxi. 10-31. 

' She doeth little kindnesses, 

Which most leave undone or despise; 
For nought that sets one heart at ease. 
And giveth happiness or peace. 
Is low-esteemM in her eyes.'— J. R. Lowell. 



' Let no man value at a little price 
A virtuous woman's counsel ; her wing'd spirit 
Is feather'd oftentimes with heavenly words, 
And, like her beauty, ravishing and pure.' — Chapman. 



'She 
Is making with her heavenly face 
Sweetness like sunlight, and the place 
Grows luminous.' — Robert Buchanan. 



*0h woman ! lovely woman I nature made thee 
To temper man ; we had been brutes without you : 
Angels are painted fair to look like you ; 
There's in you all that we believe of heaven. 
Amazing brightness, purity, and truth. 
Eternal joy, and everlasting love.* — Otwat. 



' Day unto day her dainty hands 

Make life's soil'd temples clean ; 
And there's a wake of glory, where 
Her spirit pure hath been.' — Gerald Massey. 



'The society of a woman of virtue and understanding produces a polish more perfect 
and pleasing than that received from a general commerce with the world. The heart 
itself is moulded ; habits of undissembled courtesy are formed ; a certain flowing urbanity 
is acquired ; violent passions, rash oaths, coarse jests, indelicate language of every kind, are 
precluded and disrelished. Understanding and virtue, by being often contemplated in the 
most engaging lights, have a sort of assimilating power.' — Rev. James Fordycb, D.D. 



' Nothing lovelier can be found 
In woman, than to study household good. 
And good works in her husband to promote.' — ^Milton. 

'Married life appears to me a sort of philosophical discipline, training persons to 
honourable duties, worthy of the good and wise.' — ^Melancthon. 



' I know, dear heart 1 that in our lot 
May mingle tears and sorrow ; 

But love's rich rainbow 's built from tears 
To-day ;— with smiles to-morrow. 



PRELUDE OF MOTTOES, 13 

The sonshine from our sky may die. 

The greenness from life's tree ; 
But ever, 'mid the warring storm, 

Thy nest shall shelter'd be.*— Gerald Massey. 



' She who does not make her family comfortable, will herself never be happy at home ; 
and she who is not happy at home, will never be happy anywhere.' — ^Addison. 



' In words be thou 
A gentle flower grown musical. '^Dbrozier, 



' How do the duties of a good wife, a good mother, and worthy matron, well per- 
formed, dignify a woman !'— Richardson. 



The scales of household polity are the scales of love ; and she who holds them 
should be a sympathizing friend, ever ready to make allowance for failxues, ingenious in 
cootrtviag apologies, more lavish of counsels than rebukes, and less anxious to overwhelm 
a person with a sense of deficiency than to awaken in the bosom a consciousness of power 
to do better.'— T. S. Arthur. 



'The air of Paradise did fan the house, 
And angels officed alL'— Shaxspearb. 



' According to the experience I have learned, I require in married women the economi- 
cal virtue above all other virtues.'— Fuller. 



' Woman was created to refine the joys and soften the cares of humanity by the most 
agreeable participation.'— Addison. 



'She twines and inweaves 
Heavenly roses with life's earthly leaves,— 

Weaves for her favour'd ones love's happy band ; 
Veiled in fair grace, and in modesty's tire. 
Watchful she feeds with perpetual fire 

High sensihilitifis, holy of hand.'— Schiller. 



' Woman should be acquainted that no beauty has charms like the inward one of the 
mind, and that a gracefulness of her manners is much more engaging than that of her 
person ; that meekness and modesty are the true and lasting ornaments : for she that has 
these IS qualified, as she ought to be, for the management of a family, for the education 
of diiklren, for an afifection to her husband, and submitting to a prudent way of living. ' — 

EnCTBTUS. 



'Can comeliness of form, or shape, or air. 
With comeliness of words or deeds compare ? 
No : those at first the unwary heart may gain ; 
But these, these only, can that heart retain.'— GAT. 



' Tls virtue that doth make them most admired ; 
Tis modesty that makes them seem divine.'— Shakspbarb. 



"Good without oflfort— great without a foe.'— Byron. 



14 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. 

* Women are never so amiable as when thej are usefdL'— Cobbett. 



Tbe foundation of domestic happiness is faith in the virtue of woman. '—Lamdox. 



' She hath a natural wise sincerity, 
A simple truthfulness ; and these have lent her 
A dignity as moveless as the centre.'— J. R. LowELU 



' A world of comfort 
Lies in that one word, wife.— After a bickering day. 
To come with jaded spirit home at night. 
And find the cheerful fire, the sweet repast, 
At which, in dress of happy cheeks and eyes, 
Love sits, and smiling, lightens all the bo«uxi.' — ^Knowles. 



'Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be dever ; 

Do noble things, not dream them, all day long; 
And so make life, death, and that vast for ever, 

One grand, sweet song.' — Charles Kingslet. 



' How much is it to be regretted that women should ever sit down contented to polish, 
when they are able to xefoxm, — to entertain, when they might instruct 1 *— Dh. Rlatb. 

'An her luxury was doing good.' — Garth. 



' A good wife is none of 3rour dainty dames, who love to appear in a variety of suits 
every day new ; as if a good gown, like a stratagem in war, were to be used but once;' — 
Fuller. 

'Her sway is held on earth. 
Enthroned by native worth.'— Thomas Woolnsr. 



' I am prejudiced in favour of her who can ask with a loving confidence, jret without 
rudeness ; she has faith in humanity, she has faith in herself. No one who is not accus- 
tomed to give generously, can ask nobly and with all faith.' — Lavater. 

' It makes us proud when our love of a girl is returned ; it ought to make us prouder 
stiU when we can love her for herself alone, without the aid of any such selfish reflection. 
This is the religion of love.'— Hazlitt. 

' It is in the heart that God has placed the genius of woman, because the works of their 
genius are all works of love,' — Lamartine. 

' Tell me a thing she cannot dress — 
Soups, hashes, pickles, pudding, pies ; 
Nought comes amiss— she is so wise.' — Lloyd. 



Give me next good, an understanding wife. 
By nature wise, not leamM by much art. 
Some knowledge on her side, will all my life 
More scope of conversaUon impart : 

Besides, her inbome vertue fortifie. 

They are most firmly good, that best know why.*— SIR T. OVERBURY. 



* Sweet the music of the step 
That meets us at the door.'— J. R. DRAKE. 



PRELUDE OF MOTTOES, 15 

'Silence and a chaste reserve 
Is woman's genuine praise, and to remain 
Quiet within the house.'— Euripides. 



' In person decent, and in dress, 
Her manners and her words express 

The purity of mind ; 
Good humour brightens up her face, 
Where passion never leaves a trace. 

Nor frowns a look unkind : 
No vexing sneer, no angry word. 
No scandal from her lips is heard. 

Where truth and sweetness blend. 
Submissive to her husband's will. 
Her study is to please him stifl. 

His fond and faithful friend. 
She watches his returning way. 
When from the troubles of the day 

He seeks an hour of bliss : 
She runs to meet him with a smile. 
And if no eye be near awhile. 

The smile is with a kiss.' — ^Anom. 



' Let no man value at a Vttle price a virtuous woman's ootmaeL' — George Chapman. 



'The modest virgin, the prudent wife, or the careful matron, are much more 
aerdoeable in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, or virago queens.' — 



'Th' affection warm, the temper mild. 
The sweetness that in sorrow smiled ; 
The cheek where beauty glowed. 
The heart where goodness overflowed.'— LogaH. 



*0h, what makes woman lovely? Virtue, faith. 
And gentleness in sufTering ; an endurance 
Through scorn or trial : these call beauty fortht 
Give it the stamp celestial, and admit it 
To sisterhood with angels I '— Bremt. 



*Xjently entreating, and sweetly beguiling. 
Woman reigns while the graces around her are smiling. 
Calming down the fierce discord of hatred and pride.' — Schiller. 



' Thy soft hand, amid the maze of ill. 
Can rear one blissful bower of Eden still.''— Beresford. 



Fair ladies I you drop manna In the way of starved people.'— Shakspeare. 

'Well thou play'dst the housewife's part. 
And all thy threads with magic art 
Have wound themselves about this heart. 

My Mary !'— CoWPEt. 



i6 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES, 



'Hen was a gracious and a gentle house. 
Rich in obliging nice observances, 
And famed ancestral hospitality. 
A cool repose lay grateful thro' the place ; 
And pleasant duties (promptly, truly done, 
And every service moved by hidden springs 
Sped with intelligence) went smoothly round. '—TiiOMAS Woolner. 



' Blessing she is : God made her so. 
And deeds of week-day holiness 
Fall from her. noiseless as the snow ; 
Nor hath she ever chanced to know 
That aught were easier than to bless/— J. R. Lowell. 



* Her voice was sweet. 
And tuned to music, bearing with it a charm.'— Bar&t Cornwall. 

' When she spoke, 
Such a becoming diffidence adom'd 
The accents of her voice, as seem'd to say 
She fear'd her words might wound that modesty 
In whose defence her trembling tongue pronounced 'em^ 
In gentle, yet in most persuasive sort.'— Beller. 



' A lively smile, that sent 
This silent speech in sunshine to his heart.' — ^Wiffen. 



• She will be herself in all dianges of fortune j neither blown up by prosperity, nor 
broken with adversity. You will find in her an even, cheerful, good-humoured friend, and 
an agreeable companion for life. She will infuse knowledge into your children with their 
milk, and from their infancy train them up to wisdom. Whatever company you are 
engaged in, you will long to be at home ; and retire with delight from the society of men 
into the bosom of one who is so dear, so accomplished, and so amiable. If she touches 
her lute, or sings to it any of her own compositions, her voice will soothe you in your 
solitude, and sound more sweetly in your ear than that of the nightingale. You will 
spend with pleasure whole days and nights in her conversation, and be for ever finding 
out new beauties in her discourse. She will keep your mind in perpetual serenity, restrain 
its mirth from being dissolute, and prevent its melancholy from being painful'— Sir T. 
More. 



• We do not call a woman's perfection manliness. We do not think that woman will 
ever find her crown— though she may seek it— in quitting her privacy, and usurping the 
functions of statesmen, of orators, of professional workmen. We incline to think that, in 
grasping at power, she will lose influence ; and that, though the novelty may daxde for a 
moment, in the end the performance will disappoint the promise.'— Rev. C T Vaughan 
D.D. 



' Come near me, wife ; I fare the better &r, 
For the sweet food of thy divine advice ; 
Let no man value at a little price 
A virtuous woman's counsel. Her wlng'd spirit 
Is feather'd oftentimes with heavenly words. 
And, like her beauty, ravishing and pure.' — Chapman. 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MARKETING. 

^Tkert it a ripttltutnfiir everything ; and i/yim tlif that, cr antUipati it, yorn 
dim IIU graet ^ tkt matttr, tt it ever sa good.' — BiSUOP Hackett. 

THE first rule of marketing is to purchase from respectable trades- 
people, who have to support the character of their shops. The 
second rule is, not to purchase inferior articles under the idea of being 
economical A bargain is seldom a prize ; and this is especially the 
case with regard to butchers' meat The best meat, and the prime 
parts, are unquesdonabljr the cheapest in the end, although the fiist 
cost may be the greatest. In coarse and inferior joints there is always 
too great a proportion of gristle, bone, and hard mea^ to render them 
tnily economic 

GOOD MEAT. 

Good meat has the following characteristics : — ■ 
I. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint 
>. It has a marked appearance, from the ramification of little veins 
of &t among the muscles. 

3. It should be firm and elastic to the touch; bad meat being 
vet, sodden, and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parch- 
ment 

4. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be 
disagreeable; for diseased meat has a sickly, cadaverous smell, and 
sometimes a smell of physic. This is discoverable when the meat is 
chopped up and drenched with warm water. 

5. It should not shrink nor waste much in cooking.— .ZTr. Lelheby. 



i8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON THE ART OF COOKING. 

* ly three, read P thy right wits,' — Shakspearx. 

It is a true though trite remark, that ' God is the Giver and the devil's 
the Cook/ in too many cases ; and all for want of attention to a few 
general laws, if I may so speak, that rule aU good cooking. I have 
gathered together the following excellent remarks on the various modes 
of cookery from esteemed authorities, well worthy of study, and from 
their conmion sense most practicable. 

SOUP-MAKING. 

The chief art in making good soup lies in the judicious blending of 
the different flavours, so that nothing shall predominate. 

The scum should be taken off before the soup boils, or it will not be 
clear. All the fat is to be taken off. 

Simmer very softly. If soup be suffered to boil quickly, the goodness 
of the meat can never be extracted. 

Put the meat into cold water ; let it be long on the fire before it 
comes to a boil ; allow about 2 table-spoonfiils of salt to a gallon of 
soup, if it have many vegetables ; less, if the vegetables be few. 

From i^ pints to i quart of water to every pound of meat will make 
good soup. 

If the water waste, and more is to be added, use boiling water. 
Cold or lukewarm water will spoil the soup. 

Keep the saucepan in which your soup is boUing closely covered, or 
the strength will fly off with the steam. 

Soup will be as good the second day as the first, if heated to the 
boiling point It should never be left in the saucepan, but should be 
turned into a dish or shallow pan, and set aside to get cold. Never 
cover it up, as that will cause it to turn sour very quickly. 

Before heating a second time, remove all the fet from the top. If 
this be melted in, the flavour of the soup will certainly be spoiled. 

Thickened soups require nearly double the seasoning used for thin 
soups or broth. 

Brown soup is made chiefly of beef; white soup of veal. 

It should be observed, that split peas will not soften in salt Uquor ; 
therefore if you make your soup of salt pork or salt beef liquor, it will 
be necessary to boil the peas by themselves in a small quantity of soft 
water until they are melted ; the vegetables meantime wiU be cooking 



THE ART OF COOKING, 19 

in the liquor, and the peas, when sufficiently done, must be added. 
Some persons lay the peas in soak over night, but it is not a good plan. 

Green peas make an excellent soup in summer. The peas are boiled 
to a pulp and then rubbed through a sieve, afterwards flavoured with 
pepper and salt, and, for those who like it, an onion, a carrot, and a 
spoonful or two of catsup may be added ; but these things tend to 
destroy the flavour of the peas. 

Stock. — ^Put in 10 lbs. of fresh killed shin of beef, and i pint of 
water ; let it stand by the fire for an hour, then add f lb. of lean ham, 
3 carrots, 3 onions, i small head of celery, 4 cloves, 6 allspice, 10 
peppercorns, i tea-spoonful salt, do. mustard, i table-spoonful brown 
sugar, I large black onion, and 6 quarts of water. Simmer for six hours, 
skimming frequently. Strain through a fine hair sieve that has been 
dipped in cold water, into an earthen (uncovered) pan, and when cold 
remove the fat 

It makes about 4 quarts, and what remains each day may be boiled up. 

ROASTING. 

Jtme-Table for Roasting, 

Ten lbs. of beef will take from two hours to two hours and a half 
roasting, eighteen inches from a good fire. Six lbs., one hour and a 
quarter to an hour and a half, fourteen inches from the fire. Three 
ribs of beef, boned and rolled, well tied round with paper, will take two 
hours and a half, eighteen inches from the fire, and only baste once. 
If beef is very fat, it does not require basting; if very lean, tie it up in 
greasy paper, and baste well. 

Eight lbs. of veal will take from one hour and a half to two hours, 
eighteen inches from the fire ; if stuffed, at least two hours. 

Chump, or loin and kidneys, of 4 lbs., will take one hour and a 
quarter; baste well. Six lbs. of breast, one hour, twelve inches from 
the fire. Six lbs. of the shoulder and neck, the same. 

Calfs hearty well stuffed, and tied up in paper, three-quarters of an 
hour. 

A leg of muttotiy of 3 lbs., will take one hour and a half, eighteen 
inches fi:om the fire. Saddle, 10 lbs., one hour and a quarter to one 
hour and a half, eighteen inches, measuring firom the flat surface. 
Shoulder, one hour and a half; loin« one hour ajid a half; breast, three- 
quarters of an hour; neck, one hour. 

Lamby according to size, but in the same proportion less than mutton, 
but ought always to be well done, and placed nearer the fire ; if a good 
fire, about fifteen inches from iL 

Fork should be well done. A leg oi 6 lbs., with skin over, two hours. 



20 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



eighteen inches from the fire. Loin of the same, one hour. Neck, the 
same weight, one hour and three-quarters. Pork rubbed with salt the 
night previous, and then scraped before roasting, improves the flavour. 

In roasting of beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and poultry, place a dripping- 
pan under the meat, with a little dean dripping or fat, which should be 
very hot when the meat is basted. A quarter of an hour before serving, 
add \ pint of water to the fat in the dripping-pan ; dredge the meat 
with flour and salt When the meat is dished up, pour the contents of 
the pan into a basin, straining it through a gauze sieve kept on purpose ; 
remove all the fat, add a little colouring and salt to the gravy, and pour 
it into the dish under the meat 

Veal and poultry should have half the quantity of water put into the 
pan, and that, when strained, added to \ pint of thick melted butter, 
with 2 tea-spoonfuls of any sauce for flavour. — M. Soyer. 

BOILINa 

Meat should be boiled in a vessel large enough to contain it easily, 
so that it may have perfect freedom and sufficient water, otherwise it 
will be hard and discoloured ; at the same time, too large a pot wiU 
leave unnecessary space, which ought to be avoided ; for, as the meat 
requires to be covered with water full two inches, the liquor will then 
be too weak to be of any service afterwards. 

Before putting your joint into the pot, put in a plate turned upside 
down, so that the water may get to every part, and the meat may not 
stick to the bottom. All kinds of meat should be put into cold soft 
water ; and with fresh meat, throw in a little salt to raise the scum. 
The water should not be suffered to come to a boil too quickly, and 
just before it boils the scum should be removed, and for a few minutes 
afterwards ; for, if the scum be suffered to boil down, it will render the 
meat black. When it is skimmed quite clean, cover the pot and set it 
aside, so that it may only simmer; taking great care, however, that it 
never ceases to do sa Should the water waste in the boiling, it will be 
necessary to add more, so as to keep the meat covered : in this case 
boiling water must be used. If the meat be boiled in a cloth, it will be 
whiter, but the liquor will be spoiled. It is usual to allow a quarter of 
an hour to every pound of meat, reckoning from the time the water 
begins to boil ; but this is by no means an infallible rule, as some parts 
of meat require much more cooking than others. A piece of brisket of 
bee^ for instance, requires much more time for cooking than a piece of 
the round of the same weight ; and you would surely spoil the best end 
of the neck of mutton by boiling it the same length of time as the 
breast The cook must use her own judgment, in some measure, on 



THE ART OF COOKING. 21 

diese matters. When meat is perfectly fresh, it requires more time for 
cooking than when stale or long-killed. Good meat invariably swells 
in boiling. 

If corned meat be too salt, you may pour off the water after it has 
boiled a few minutes, and replace it with fresh. 

BROILING. 

For broiling, the fire should be brisk and perfectly clear ; a good 
strong cinder fire is best Set the gridiron over for a minute or two to 
get hot, then wipe it quite clean with a clean damp cloth — do not use 
paper ; then rub a bit of hard dripping or suet over the bars, to prevent 
the meat sticking to them. Put the lean of the meat on the back part 
of the girdiron, and the fat in the front ; pepper your meat before you 
lay it on, but do not salt it, as that draws out the gravy. Turn the meat 
once or twice, but do not insert a fork for that purpose. Do not beat 
the meat before broiling; it will not make tough meat tender, and it 
expels the juices. 

Broiled meat should be cooked quickly, and served quite hot ; on 
taking it off the girdiron, lay it on a hot dish, sprinkle it with salt, and 
lay a good lump of butter over it Some persons like ketchup or 
walnut-liquor with broiled meat; others like the dish rubbed with a 
shalot Instead of buying our cutlets and chops ready for the girdiron 
or pan, we buy loins and necks of fat mutton, at least half of which are 
thrown to waste. The enormous weight of meat thus daily in our 
kitchens would be most acceptable to the poorer classes, and could be 
readily sold to them by the butcher ; for the inferior parts of good meat 
are far more wholesome and nourishing than the best parts of inferior 
meat, such as the poorer classes chiefly eat The second step, there- 
fore, towards kitchen reform ought to be an arrangement with the 
butcher, that every joint sent in should be closely trimmed for the table 
before it leaves his shop ; and that, if we want chops or cutlets, we 
should buy from him chops and cutlets, and not the entire joints from 
which they are cut — British Medical Journal, 

FRYING. 

Frying is, of all methods of cooking, the most objectionable, fix>m 
the foods being less digestible when thus prepared, as the fat employed 
undeigoes chemical changes. Olive oil, in this respect, is preferable 
to lard or butter. If the meat is very juicy, it will not firy well, because 
it becomes sodden before the water is evaporated; and it will not 
brown, because the temperature is too low to scorch it To fry fish 



22 7HINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

well, the fat should be boiling hot and the fish well dried in a cloth : 
otherwise, owing to the generation of steam, the temperature will ^ 
so low, that it will be boiled in its own steam, and not be browned. 
Meat, or indeed any article, should be frequently turned and agitated 
during frying, to promote the evaporation of the watery particles. To 
make fried things look well, they should be done over twice with egg 
and stale bread-crumbs. 

STEWS AND SALTED MEAT. 

Liebig observes, that stewing meat with vegetables is probably the 
most economical mode of cookery that has ever been invented, and 
many think it the most palatable. The meat should be cut into mode- 
rately small pieces, and put into the water when cold ; and the whole 
should be very gradually heated till it nearly reaches the boiling 
point The vegetables should be put in when the meat is about half 
done ; and if a few onions are fried and added to the stew, they not 
only increase the flavour, but give a rich brown colour. Stews should 
never be suffered to bcii. 

After considerable experiments, Liebig found that the kind of salted 
meat which is least injurious to the system is that which is cured with 
salt containing a considerable portion of chloride of calcium and chloride 
of magnesium ; the external aspect of flesh salted in this manner being 
covered as if with a white froth, consisting chiefly of phosphate of lime 
and phosphate of magnesia, the earthy parts of the sea-salt having 
entered into mutual decomposition with the alkaline phosphates of the 
juice. 

Meat thus cured and eaten with cabbage, or any other vegetable rich 
in potash, is nearly as digestible as fresh meat ; it should, however, be 
eaten with caution by those who have weak stomachs. 

TO DRESS POULTRY. 

Hang it up with worsted, ^bout ten inches from the fire; let it hang 
for ten minutes to set the skin, then press into a wooden spoon a piece 
of butter or hard dripping ; when the skin is very hot, rub it over with 
the fat in the spoon until all is melted, then draw it back to about twelve 
inches. A good-sized fowl will take three-quarters of an hour ; chicken, 
twenty minutes; middle-sized goose, one hour; turkey of fourteen 
pounds, two hours and a half; hare, large, one hour and a half; if very 
young, three-quarters of an hour. Never baste them, but dredge all, 
after having well rubbed them over witii butter, as for fowls. 

Small game should be placed nearer the fire. — M. Soyer. 



THE ART OF COOKING. 23 



Time for Keeping Poultry and Game, 

In Summer. In Winter. 

Hare, 3 days. 6 days. 

Rabbit, 2 ,, 4 „ 

Pheasant, 4 „ 10 ,, 

Young fat pullet, • . . 4 „ 10 ,, 

Partridge, 2 „ 6 to 8 „ 

Turkey, duck, goose, . . . 2 „ 6 „ 

Capon, 3 „ 6 „ 

Chickeus, 2 „ 4 „ 

Young pigeons, . . . 2 „ 4 „ 

When the weather is moist or rainy, the articles must be kept some- 
what less time. 

TO DRESS FISH. 

Fish must be put into cold or boiling water according to its firmness 
of flesh : for instance, turbot, salmon, mackerel, etc, should be put into 
cold water ; while plaice, whitings, haddocks, and such soft-fleshed, as 
well as crimped fish, should be put into boiling water. The reason is 
obvious : by putting flaccid and watery fish into the water cold, it is 
rendered still more soft and watery; but the boiling water sets it, 
and renders it firmer. On the other hand, the cold water penetrates 
and softens the fish that is of a firmer texture, and makes it eat more 
tender and delicate. Keep the water skimmed while the fish is 
boiling. 

Fish is cooked enough when it leaves the bone easily. Be sure to 
wash and dean your fish well, never trusting to the fishmonger. 

In frying fish, having washed it, dry it thoroughly in a clean cloth ; 
then flour it well, or whisk it over with egg, and dip it into bread-crumbs 
before firying it Be sure your pan is very clean, and that your fat (of 
which there should be enough to cover the fish) boils before you put 
the fish in. Fry fish quickly, of a fine light brown. Some like fish fried 
in batter — ^as good a batter as any, is a little ale and flour beaten up 
just as you are ready for it ; then dip the fish in before firying it. Put 
plenty of salt in the water in which you boil fish, and a stick of horse- 
radish, excepting mackerel, with which you boil salt, mint, parsley, or 
fennel* 

FISH SEASONS. 

The cod-fish comes m September, and disappears in March. 



24 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

— i I ■ ■ 

Crimped Gloucester salmon is plentiful in June and part of July ; but 
it may be procured almost all the year round. 

Conunon salmon, from March to July. 

Salmon peale, from June to July. 

Spey trout, from May to July. 

Sturgeon is very good in June. 

Turbot, soles, and brill are in season all the year round. 

John Doxy's depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all 
the year round for the epicure, May excepted. 

The original season of Yarmouth mackerel is from the 12th of 
May till the end of July; now we have Christmas mackerel; then 
the West of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of 
April 

Haddock and whiting all the year round. 

Skate all the winter. 

Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish; the 
Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large ; the Dutch are also 
very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. 

Gtimards are spring fish. 

Fresh herrings, from November to January. 

River eels all the year round. 

Lobsters and prawns, spring, and part of summer. 

Crabs are best in May. 

Barrelled oysters, from the middle of September till the end of 
February. 

Sprats were formerly said to come in on Lord Mayor's day (Novem- 
ber 9), but they are only good in frosty weather. 

Fish is readily known to be in perfection by the layer of curdy matter 
interposed within its flakes. It often happens, however, that those 
parts of fish — ^viz. the pulpy, gelatinous, or glutinous — ^which are con- 
sidered the most delicious, are the most indigestible. 

PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

In boiling puddings, see that the cloth is perfectly clean. Dip it in 
hot water, and dredge it well with flour. If a bread pudding, tie it 
loose ; if a batter pudding, tie it nearly close ; apple and gooseberry 
pudding, etc., should be tied quite close. When you make a batter 
pudding, first mix the flour well with milk, and stir in the other 
ingredients by degrees ; you will then have it smooth without lump?. 
Strain the eggs when they are beaten up. Be sure the water boils when 
you put your pudding in, that it keeps boiling all the time, and is always 
covered with water; you should also move it about two or three times 



THE ART OF COOKING. 25 

at first, or it may stick to the pot ; dip the pudding into cold water 
immediately you take it out, to prevent it sticking. If you boil your 
pudding in a dish or basin, butter the inside before putting the pud- 
ding in ; the same should be done to the dish lor a baked pudding 
or pie. 

The quality of pie-crust depends much on the baking. If the oven 
be too hot, the paste, besides being burned, will fall ; if too slack, it 
will be soddened, and consequently heavy. 

Paste should be made on a cold, smooth substance, such as marble, 
with a light, cool hand It should be made quickly ; much handling 
makes it heavy. Great nicety is required in wetting the paste, too little 
moisture rendering it dry and crumbly, while too much makes it tough 
and heavy; and in either case, the paste cannot be easily worked. 
Practice alone can produce perfection in this art 

Before commencing to make paste for pies or puddings, it is neces- 
sary to place near at hand everything likely to be wanted, to inspect all 
the utensils, to prepare all the ingredients, and though last, not least, to 
wash the hands and nails perfectly clean ; for the hands are the best 
tools to make paste with. 

Always use good sweet butter, dripping, or lard for pie or pudding 
crust Some persons entertain the mistaken notion that butter which 
cannot be eaten on bread will do very well for paste ; on the contrary, 
the baking or boilmg of rancid fat increases tlie bad flavour. It is 
a good plan to wash the butter in clean spring water before using it 
Make two or three holes with a fork in the cover of your pies, that the 
steam may escape. 

TO DRESS VEGETABLES. 

Be careful to pick and wash greens thoroughly ; pick them dose, for 
one old outside leaf will deteriorate a dishful ; split the stems of cabbages 
across twice. They should be washed in a pan, as particles of sand or 
dust are very apt to hang round wooden vessels ; do not pour or pump 
the water on them, but plunge them in ; it is a good plan to throw into 
the water a good handful of salt, as that will draw out worms or other 
insects, which you cannot see without pulling the vegetables to pieces. 
All greens should be boiled by themselves, in plenty of water, with a 
good lump of salt ; the water should boil when they are put in, and be 
kept boiling ; they should be well done, or they are unwholesome ; a 
very little bit of soda put into the water mellows the greens, and pre- 
serves their colour. 

No directions can be given as to the exact time that vegetables' take 
for boiling, as much depends on their size and age. To ascertain when 



i6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

they are done enough, pass a fork through the stem : if soft, they are 
done j they begin to sink when nearly boiled enough. Greens should 
be perfectly strained, and that immediately they are done. 

DRIED HERBS, ETC, FOR WINTER USE. 

Cut the herbs on a dry day, just before they flower ; cut off the hard 
parts of the stems, and dry the tender tops and leaves in an oven (or 
hot closet or screen) between two dishes, as quickly as possible, pro- 
vided they are not burnt ; pick off the leaves while hot, pound them 
well in a mortar, and put them into bottles to be well stopped : they 
ought to be gran, but crisp. 

Basil is in the best state for drying &om the middle of August, and 
three weeks after. 

Knotted marjoram — from the beginning of July, and during the same. 

Savoury — the latter end of July, and throughout August 

Thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme — during June and July. 

Mint — latter end of June and during July. 

Sage — August and September. 

Tarragon^ — June, July, and AugusL 

Chervil — May, June, and July. 

Burnet and basil — June, July, and AugusL 

Parsley — May, June, and July. 

Fennel — May, June, and July. 

Elder-flowers — May, June, and July. 

Herb-mixture of equal proportions of knotted matjotam and winter 
savoury, with half the quantity of basD, thyme, and tarragon, dried, 
rubbed to powder, and kept is a closely-corked bottle, will be useful lor 
force-meats and flavouring. 



DINNERS, 

ARRANGED FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR ; 



AND 



DESSERT FOR EVERY MONTH, 



WITH 



DUE ATTENTION TO THE PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 



' There's no want of meat, sir : 
Portly and curious viands are prepared, 
To please all kinds of appetites.' 

— Massinger. 



JANUARY 1. 

* Mtderatt ymtr acfttua note, atfirit. 
At yen may ittp Ihe same frefiertiait still, 
Ner stand sa miuh en yeur gmtUUy. '— Bkn Jonson. 



PROVISIONS IN SSA50N. 

FtSB : BiiU— Cod— Crab— Du:e—E«ls— Haddocks— Ling— Lobslen—Oyslcn — 

Pike— Pnwnt— Shrimp) — Skale— Smelts— Spnts—Stiugeon— Tench— Turbot 

—Whitings. 
Hkat : Berf— Home- Limb— Mutton— Pork— Veal and Venison, 
PooLTlY J Turkeys— Capons— Pullets— Tame Pigeons— Rabbits. 
Gamk: Gronse— Hares—Partridges— Pheasants— Snipes— Wild Fowl- Widgeon— 

Woodcodi*. 
Vegctables: Brocoli — Brussels Sprouts — Cabbage — Carrots — Leeks — Celerjf — 

PuBiips — SaToji — Spinach. 

FRUrrs IN SEASON. 

Apple* — Crapei — Medlars — Pears — Walnuts — Noti — Oranges — Forrign preserved 
Fruiu— Dried Fruit* — Almond* and Raisins — French and Spanish Plums — Date* 



BILL OF FARE. 



5. M&ALT Potatoes. 

6. Cabinet Pudding. 
J. Lemon Tartlett. 

8. Stilton Chebse, Cbleky, and 



I. Mock Tdetlb Socp. 

a. Cod's Head and Shoulders; 

BOILED OVSTEE SAUCE. 

3. Roast Sibloih op Beep and 

scraped hoksebadisk. 

4. Bedssels Sfkoiits. 



I. Atotk Turtle .Siw/.— FarboD, in separate saucepans of a lai^e size, 
ud well filled with water, half a calf s head with the skin on, and half 
■ pig's head. Skim the water constandy in which the first is boiling. 
Take both out, cut the meat off in oblong squares about an inch and a 
quaiter long, and slice the tongues ; put the bones of both into the 



30 . THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

liquor in which the calf s head has been boiled, with a table-spoonfol 
of sweet herbs in powder, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one 
chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, a table-spoonful of mushroom 
powder, and a chalot chopped fine ; let it all simmer slowly over the 
fire for a couple of hours. Make a couple of dozen savoury forcemeat 
balls, and boil a dozen eggs very hard. Pour the liquor through a 
sieve at the expiration of the two hours, and let it be quite cold before 
you remove the fat and scum ; the liquor ought to be in a jelly, but not 
too stifif a one. Put this into a stewpan with the meat, the forcemeat 
balls, the yolks of the eggs, a spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble 
cayenne, with half a pint of sherry. Stew for an hour and a half, and 
it will be fit for table. 

2. Cod^s Head and Shoulders; boiled Oyster Sauce, — Clean a cod's 
head and shoulders in one piece, and lay it in salt all night Before 
you dress it, bind it firmly together with tape. Put it into a fish-kettle 
with plenty of cold water, a handful of salt, and a stick of horseradish. 
Let it boil slowly for about three-quarters of an hour, then let the water 
drain from it across the top of the kettle. Place it on a hot dish back 
upwards, and draw away the tapes very carefully. Brush it over with 
beaten egg, and strew over it bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; then 
stick pieces of butter thickly over the top. Set it before the fire, which 
should be clear and brisk, to brown. Make a rich oyster sauce with 
gravy well seasoned with cayenne pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour 
it into the dish, but not over the fish. Do not boil the oysters. 

3. Roast Sirloin of Beef and scraped Horseradish, — Sirloin of beef 
will require as many quarters of an hour before the fire as it weighs 
pounds ; it should be covered with clean white paper, well basted, and 
sent to table with newly-made mustard. 

4. Brussels Sprouts, — Brussels sprouts should be put into boiling 
water, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved; twenty 
minutes on the fire will be sufficient Drain them well, and serve with 
melted butter. 

5. MecUy Potatoes, ^'^mX. the required number, well washed but not 
peeled^ into a saucepan, and cover them with water about an inch above 
those at the top. Let them boil on a fire not too fierce, so that the 
process be a slow one. Take ofif the saucepan, and let it stand on the 
edge of the hob till a fork easily penetrates the vegetable ; you may 
now drain off the water, and let the steam evaporate; when you 
perceive that the vapour has ceased to rise, put a clean cloth over the 
top of the saucepan, and let it stand in a warm comer till the potatoes 
are required. Five-and-twenty minutes are quite sufficient time for 
their dressing. 

6. Cdbind Pudding, — Break four sponge-cakes into small pieces, add 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 31 

three or four bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of 
candied citron, two ounces of ratafia cakes ; beat up five eggs with two 
glasses of brown sherry, and one of brandy ; add enough fine Lisbon 
sugar to sweeten it ; boil a pint of milk with half a dozen cloves and a 
quarter of a stick of cinnamon \ strain, and add the milk to the above. 
See that the mould be well buttered, and boil two hours. • 

7. Lemon TartUtt^ Stilton Cheese^ and Celery^ with pulled Bread. — 
The juice of two lemons, and the peel grated ; clean the grater with 
bread Crumbs only sufficient to clean the grater firom the peel. 
Beat all together with two eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a quarter 
of a pound of butter; put in a light paste, and bake it. 



JANUARY 2. 

* True delicacy^ thai most beautiful heart-leaf of humanity^ exhibits itself most 
significantly in little things.*— Mary Howitt. 



1. Roast Pheasant, Gravy, and 

Bread Sauce. 

2. Cold Sirloin of Beef and 

Horseradish. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Brocoli. 

5. Sutherland Pudding. 



I. Roast Pfieasanty Gravy ^ and Bread Sauce. — It should hang for 
some time, and not be plucked till in a good condition to be cooked. 
Wipe the inside with a damp cloth after it is plucked and drawn, and 
truss it with the head brought round under the wing. Flour and baste 
it well before a brisk fire ; if a large bird, it will take about an hour. 
Serve with bread sauce and plenty of brown gravy, pouring a little 
round the bird. For Bread Sauce, see the 3d of January. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. — ^VVhen sufficiently boiled, drain them quite dry ; 
beat them over the fire till firee from lumps, and stir well in 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfiils of milk, a little salt, and butter. Allow about an ounce of 
butter to each pound of mashed potatoes. 

4. Brocoli. — Pare off the* side leaves and the outside of the stalk, 
which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boiling, 
throw in a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of 
an hour. When the stalks are tender, the vegetables are done. Serve 
on a slice of toast, with a boatfal of melted butter. 

5. Sutherland Pudding. — To 2 eggs add 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 
2\ of floufy ^ lb. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of marmalade, a pinch of 
salt, an^ just before putting into die 'bason' (which must be well 
battered) add a small bit of carbonate of soda ; beat up well together, 
and boil two hoars. 



32 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JANUARY a 

' Proportion and propriety an among the best secrets of domestic wisdom ; and there is 
no surer test of integrity than a well-proportioned expenditure,^ — Hannah More. 



1. Gravy Soup.' 

2. Roast Fowls and Mashbd Pota- 

toes. 

3. Gravy FOR Fowls. 



4. Bread Sauce. 

5. Tongue. 

6. Apple Fritters. 



1. Soup, — Put the remaining meat and bones, with 2 lbs. of leg of 
beef, 2 onions, 2 turnips, i parsnip, 2 carrots, i head of celeiy, i 
small tea-cupful of rice, pepper and salt to the taste, and 4 quarts 
of water, in a stewpan. Simmer all gently for four hours, or till the 
.goodness is drawn from the meat Strain it, and let it stand till 
cold. When wanted for use, skim off the fat, and serve with toasted 
bread. 

2. Roast Fowls, — ^Three or 4 slices of fat bacon, not too thick, may 
be attached by skewers to your fowl for roasting ; it answers all the 
purpose of larding, and saves the time and trouble required for that 
operation. The frizzled baccMi makes an appropriate garnish for the 
dish. In drawing the fowl, be careful not to bresJc the gall-bag. 

3. Gravy ft^ Foivls. — Boil the neck of the fowl, after having cut 
it small, in half a pint of water, with a seasoning of spice and herbs ; 
let it stew very sofdy for an hour and a hal£ When the bird is just 
ready for the table, take the gravy from the dripping-pan and drain 
it off the fat; strain the liquor from the neck into it, mixing them 
smoothly ; pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, add sea- 
soning if necessary, and send to table hot. 

4. Bread Sauce, — Boil a large onion, cut in four, with some black 
peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Four the milk strained 
on grated white stale bread, and cover it ; in an hour, put it in a sauce- 
pan with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole 
up together, and serve. 

5. Tongue. — Put the tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it; 
boil up slowly, and skim ; simmer very gently till done. A large tongue 
will require six hours, a small one from four to five. Take off the skin, 
trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root To keep it a good 
shape, it should be sewn with a broad strip of calico to a straight board 
about the length of the tongue. 

6. Apffle Fritters.^VtA and core, without dividing the apples, slice 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR V. 33 

them in rounds the full size of the fruit ; their flavour is much improved 
by soaking them for three or four hours in a little wine mixed with 
lemon juice. For the batter, pour less than J pint of boiling water 
upon 2 oz. of good butter, cut into small pieces ; when dissolved, add 
f pint of cold water, so that the whole shall not be quite milk-warm ; 
mix it by d^ees smoothly with 1 2 oz. of fine dry flour, and a small 
pinch of salt ; stir into it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a solid 
froth (just before used). Previously to this, add a little water, should 
it appear too thick ; heat some butter in a frying-pan, dip each slice 
separately in the batter, fry a pale brown, turning them if required ; 
when done, lay them before the fire on a piece of blotting paper to 
absorb the greasy moisture ; serve them upon a folded napkin, piling 
the fritters one above the other; sift pounded sugar over them, and 
nutmeg, if liked. 



JANUARY 4. 
* The pure in heart are slow to credit calumnies,^ — ^Jane Porter. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 

3. Celery Sauce. 



4. Spinach and Potatoes. 

5. Victoria Pudding. 

6. Sauce to Victoria Pudding. 



1. Fried Soles, — Scrape, but do not skin them; wash them and 
wipe them dry, and let them remain in the cloth till time to dress 
them; dredge the soles with a little flour; dip them into, or brush 
them over with, beaten tgg^ and cover them with bread-crumbs ; fry 
them af a ^ht brown in boiling lard or dripping, and turn them but 
once; take them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on a 
napkin, or on a reversed sieve, and soft paper to absorb the fat 
(Particular attention should be paid to that.) Dish them on a hot 
napkin, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and send to 
table with shrimp sauce or plain melted butter. Allow about ten 
minutes for large soles. 

2. Roast Lq; of Mutton, — Hang it before a large brisk fire, quite 
near for a quarter of an hour ; baste it well, withdraw it to a distance, 
and let it roast slowly, basting it constantly. Half an hour before 
serving, dredge it slightly with dried flour, and sprinkle over a salt- 
spoonfijl of salt, and continue to baste ; have ready a very hot dish ; 
pour off the dripping ; add a tea-cupful of boiling water to the gravy 
dripped from the meat, and pour into the dish. Allow a quarter of 
an hour to the pound, but if frosty, add eighteen minutes to the time. 

3. Celery Sauce, — ^Wash and boil 4 heads of celery in salt and water 

c 



34 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

till tender, and cut it in pieces two inches long ; make \ pint of melted 
butter with milk; put in the celery with i blade ot pounded mace, 
white pepper and salt to the taste, and simmer for three or four minutes, 
till the sauce thickens. It may be made brown by flavouring with 
mushroom ketchup or Harve/s sauce. 

4. Spinach, — It must be washed through several waters to cleanse it 
from all grit ; the stalks carefully picked ofl^ then placed with some salt 
in a large saucepan, and only water sufficient to keep it from burning. 
It will take about a quarter of an hour. When done, squeeze it in a 
colander, put it with some butter in a hot dish, garnished with sippets of 
toasted bread, and place on the spinach either poached or hard eggs 
cut in slices. Spinach shrinks considerably in boiling. 

5. Victoria Pudding. — Mix \ oz. of ratafias, 3 oz. of stale French 
roll in fine crumbs, 3 oz. loaf sugar, '2 oz. sweet almonds blanched 
and poimded, 2 oz. beef maijow, i oz. baked flour, \ pint milk, 3 
fresh eggs. Mix and beat them briskly for ten minutes, and let it stand 
in a cool place for an hour. Beat again for ten minutes ; put it in a 
mould well rubbed with butter, tastefully stuck with dried cherries 
or stoned raisins ; tie a cloth over, put it into plenty of boiling water, 
and boil fast for two and a half hours. 

6. Sauce for Victoria Pudding. — Dissolve 3 oz. loaf sugar in a 
wine-glassful of water ; boil till a syrup ; then add, whisking rapidly, 
the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with a gill of cream and a wine-glassful of 
brandy. If properly made, it will look like rich smooth cream. 



JANUARY a 

* CovdousnesSf by a greediness of getting more, deprives itsdfofthe true end of getting; 

it loses the enjoyment of what it has got,* — Sprat. 



I. TURBOT. 

2. Lobster Sauce. 

3. Fried Allerlee. 

4. Roast Breast of Veal. 



5. Mashed PoTATa 

6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding. 

7. Sauce to Do. 



1. Turbot, — The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the 
nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely. 
Throw a glass of vinegar and a handful of salt into it, and let it 
gradually boil ; being careful that no blacks fall on it, but preserve the 
beauty of the colour and skim it well Serve it garnished with a com- 
plete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horseradish. 

2. Lobster Sauce, — ^Take a fine hen lobster ^ when boiled, take out 
all the spawn, and bruise it in a mortar very fine, with a little butter; 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 35 



take all the meat out of the tail and claws, cut it in small square 
pieces^ and put it aside. Put into a saucepan a spoonful of anchovy 
liquor, a spoonful of ketchup, a blade of mace, a bit of horseradish, 
a gill of gravy, a little butter rolled in flour, just enough to thicken 
it, and some butter nicely melted. Boil it gently for six or seven 
minutes; then take out the horseradish, mace, and lemon, squeezing 
the juice of the latter into the sauce ; just simmer it up ; then put 
in your lobster and spawn, and allow it to get hot through. 

3. Fried AlUrke, — Chop the remains of the meat to the consistence of 
sausage-meat \ flavour to the taste with dried savoury herbs rubbed fine, 
nutmeg, ground-pepper, and salt ; mix well with the above ingredients 
the yolks of 2 eggs ; roll into balls and flatten, dip them in the whites 
of the ^gs with bread-crumbs, and fry of a light brown. Serve hot 
Garnish the dish with parsley. % 

4. Roast Breast of Veal and Bacon. — ^When dredged with flour, put it 
at a little distance from a bright fire, basting it constantly. Pour some 
good melted butter over it when done, serve a piece of boiled bacon 
with it, and garnish witli cut lemon. 

6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding, — Pour some boiling milk over a break- 
fast-cupful of vermicelli, and let it remain covered for ten minutes ; 
then mix \ lb. raisins stoned, 2 table-spoonfuls of marmalade, 3 
eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Stir all well together, put 
all into a buttered mould, boil for one and a half hours, and serve 
with 

7. Custard Sauce — ^for which put \ pint milk in a clean saucepan, 
and let it boil. Beat 2 eggs, stir to them the milk and 3 oz. of 
pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug, which place in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, stining well till it thickens \ but do not let it boily 
or it wiU curdle. Serve in a tureen, stir in i table-spoonful of brandy, 
and grate a little nutmeg over the top. 



JANUARY 6. 

Walk in felt shoes to do a good action.^ 



1. Remains OF TuRBOT. 

2. Staffordshire Beefsteaks. 

3. Masked Potatoes. 



4. Stewed Apples. 

5. Custard. 



I. Remains ofTurbot. — ^Take all skin and bone firom the fish, divide 
it into square pieces of an equal size, brush them with egg, and sprinkle 
them with bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and season- 



36 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. 

ing. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste. 
Bake for a quarter of an hour, keeping it well moistened with butter. 
Well drain the fish from the butter, have ready the remains of lobster 
sauce, adding a litde grated nutmeg and lemon-juice, make it hot, 
and pour over the fish. The fish warmed thus in the remains of the 
sauce will be found much nicer than putting it again in water. 

2. Staffordshire Beejsteaks, — Take a table-spoonful of flour, half a 
tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground pepper and allspice 
together. Mix well Have 2 lbs. tender beefsteak ; rub it in the flour 
seasoning. Slice a large onion thin, take a little fat from the steak, and 
use it to fry the onion a light brown ; then lightly fry the steak. Cut 
into moderate-sized pieces, put the steak in a stewpan, with just enough 
water for sauce, and stew very gently for half an hour. Add a litde 
ketchup, or £^ sauce, and serve hot 

4. Vetoed AfpUs. — Seven good-sized apples with the stalks on, the 
rind of half a lemon, quarter of a lb. of sugar, three-quarters of a pint 
of water ; pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing 
them. Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes, then put in the apples 
with the lemon-rinds, and simmer gently until they are tender, taking 
care not to let them break ; dish them neatly on a glass dish ; reduce 
the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes ; let it cool a little ; 
then pour it over the apples. When they are quite cold, a few doves, 
or almonds, blanched and stuck in the apples are pretty ; they take 
from twenty to thirty minutes to stew. 

5. Have quite ready Bright's Vegetable Custard, use as directed on 
the IS. box, and pour it round, not over the apples. 



JANUARY 7. 



* 77ie aids to noble Vfe are all wi/Ain.^—'MATrHEW Arnold. 



1. Vegetable Soup. 

2. Roast Hare and Sauce, and 

Red Currant Jelly. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Lemon Dumplings and 

Sauce. 



I. Vegetable Soup. —Peel and cut into small pieces 2 or 3 large turnips 
or 4 small, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 6 potatoes, i head celery, i large slice 
of bread toasted rather brown ; 2 mushrooms, if obtainable ; i small 
salt-spoonful of salt, \ do. ground black pepper, 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
Harvey or other sauce, and 6 quarts 01 water. Simmer gentiy for 
three hours, or till reduced to a pulp; then pass it through a sieve; 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 37 

waim it up when required ; add more Harvey's sauce and flavouring, 
if necessary, to the taste, as it should be a dark brown colour. 

A vegetable cutter should be had for chopping the vegetables for 
soups, etc 

2. RacLst Hare and Sauce, or Red Currant Jelly, — A hare, after being 
properly stufled, is basted for the first seven minutes with strong salt 
and water ; a fresh dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, 
in which about half a pound of butter has been dissolved. The animal 
is dredged with flour occasionally ; when the eyes start from the sockets, 
the hare is flt to be sent to table. 

Stuffing for Hares. — Use the liver — see that it is quite fresh; an 
anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a 
little onion, crumbs of bread, and an tg% to bind it alL 

4. Lemon Dumplings and Sauce, — The juice of a lemon and half the 
rind, ^ lb. of bread grated, \ lb. suet chopped very fine, \ lb. loaf sugar, 
and 2 eggs, mixed together, and made into balls, tied in doths^ and 
boiled half an hour ; served up with wine sauce. 

JANUARY 8. 

' The harvest and vintage come not every day, therejore he provident* 



1. Boiled Salmon. 

2. Shrimp Sauce. 

3. Roast Beef-heart. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Plum-pudding. 



1. Boiled Salmon. — Clean it carefully ; boil it gently, and take out of 
the water as soon as done ; let the water be warm if the fish be split. 

2. Shrimp Sauce. — ^Take ^ a pint of shrimps, pick and lay them 
aside ; put the pickings into a little water, stew it a short time, then 
strain ofi" the liquor, with which make your melted butter ; put in your 
shrimps, add a spoonful of anchovy liquor and a little lemon-juice, and 
kt it sinmier all together for a few minutes. 

3. Roast Beef 'heart. — ^The heart must be stuffed with the same mate- 
rials used for fillet of veal, well basted with fresh butter, and allowed 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Make some beef gravy to serve with 
ity and melt a pot of red currant jelly in a gill of port wine, to be sent 
quite hot to table. 

5. Plum-pudding. — The same proportions of flour and suet, and half 
the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine, and one egg and 
milk ; boil as long as you can — the longer the better. 



38 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

JANUARY 9 

' Good silence is near holiness* 

1. Oxtail Soup. I 3. Potatoes and Brussels Sprouts. 

2. Mutton Pis a la Perigord. I 4. Roast Cheese. 

1. Oxtail Sovp. — Cut up 2 fresh oxtails, separating them at the 
joints ; wash, and put in a stewpan with i oz. of butter and 2 slices 
of ham ; cut into slices 3 onions, i leek, 2 turnips, 2 caxrots, i head 
of celery, and add them, with 12 whole peppercorns, a bay-l«af, i 
bunch of savoury herbs, and 4 cloves ; put in \ pint of water and stir 
it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up the stewpan with 
2 quarts and i^ pints of water, and when boiling, add i table-spoonful 
of salt. Skim well, and simmer till the tails are tender (about four 
hours). Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with flour, 
and flavour with port wine and ketchup. Put back the tails, simmer 
for five minutes, and serve. If the tails are not quite fresh, the soup 
will be milky. 

2. Mutton Pie d la Perigord. — Cut the fat oflf half a dozen mutton 
chops, and season them with pepper and salt Line the bottom of a 
pie-dish with paste about the tenth of an inch thick ; put 5 peeled truffles 
in the centre, and arrange the chops, with thin rashers of bacon between 
them, round the dish ; 2 oz. of butter cut into thin slices are placed at 
the top, and \ a, tea-cupful of veal stock poured in. Cover with paste, 
and bake for three hours in a slow oven ; make a small orifice in the 
top crust, and pour in a couple of glasses of brown sherry or Madeira, 
The top of the pie can be rendered ornamental if desired, and glazed 
with egg. 

3. Potatoes and Brussels Sprouts, — Clean the sprouts from insects, 
wash thoroughly, and pick ofi any dead or discoloured leaves ; put them 
in a saucepan of boiling water (to each ^ gallon of water put a large table- 
spoonful of salt and a little soda) ; keep the lid of! and boil quickly over 
a brisk fire till tender, which will be about twelve minutes. Serve with 
melted butter quickly^ as the vegetable soon cools. 

4. Roast Cheese, — Grate 3 oz. of fat Cheshire cheese ; mix it with 
the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 oz. of grated bread, and 3 oz. of butter ; beat the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little 
salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces ; lay the 
paste as above thick upon them, into a Dutch oven, covered with a 
dish, till hot through ; remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a 
little. Serve as hot as possible. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR Y, 39 



JANUARY 10. 

' To choose time is to save time; and an unseasonable motion is but beating 

the air J* — Bacon. 



1. White Soup. 

2. Corned Shoulder of 

Mutton. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Broccoli. 

5. Nesselrode Pudding. 



1. White Soup. — ^Take i quart of veal broth, and flavour it with 
nutmeg, lemon-peel, bay-leaf, etc., to the taste preferred. Strain very 
carefully into a stewpan, and let it boil ; then put in i oz. of sago, and 
boil gently for twenty minutes. Skim well. Take the yolks of 4 eggs ; 
beat well ; add to them a gill of cream or milk ; take the stewpan off 
the fire i stir in the eggs and cream quickly, and serve. 

Note, — Care must be taken not to allow the eggs to boil, or the 
soup will be curdled and spoilt 

2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton. — ^A shoulder of mutton, not too fat, 
well powdered with salt for four days, boiled, and sent to table with 
plenty of onion sauce, is the thing. 

5. Nesselrode Pudding. — Put a pint of new milk, i oz. best isinglass, 
2 inches of stick vanilla, 5 oz. loaf sugar, into an enamelled saucepan, 
and boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 6 fresh eggs into the 
milk while hot, but not boiling ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, 
then stxain into a basin. Cut into \ inch squares 4 oz. preserved pine- 
apple, I oz. of angelica, 2 oz. of candied apricots without stones, 2 oz. 
of candied cherries, 2 oz. of orange peel, and i oz. of ginger ; pour over 
the firuit a wine-glassful of either Curagoa, brandy, or Maraschino, and 
let it stand half an hour. Beat a pint of double cream to froth, stir it 
into the custard when nearly cold, put in the fruit, and stir it rapidly for 
five minutes. Rinse a mould in cold water ; put in the pudding, and 
place it in a pan on and surrounded by rough ice. Stir till it begins 
to set, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till 
quite firm, turn it on a glass dish, and serve immediately. 



JANUARY 11. 

• The wise and prudent conquer difficulties by daring to attempt them^ — ROWE. 



1. Haunch of Mutton. 

2. Stewed Celery. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. 



4. Broccoli. 

5. Marmalade Pudding. 



I. Haunch of Mutton. — Order a haunch of South Devon mutton that 
has been kept some days, and let the butcher trim it for dressing ; rub 



40 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KXOW. 

it well with a coarse doth, and dredge it with floor; tie it in large sheets 
of white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping. Have a good fire ; 
hang it near for the flist half hour, then at a distance; loast slowly 
till done ; baste ccnstandy ; if liked well done;, it will take eighteen 
minutes to the lb. ; if not, from ten to fourteen minutes. Take ofi the 
paper twenty minutes before serving ; dredge slighdy with baked flour, 
and baste with 2 oz. of dissolved butter ; pour ofi* the draping ; add a 
tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the dripped 
gravy, and pour it into a Aoi well-dish ; put the haunch on, broad side 
uppennost, and serve at once. Have red currant jelly on a glass 
dish. 

2. Stewed Celery, — Celety b in season from October to AprSL To 
each \ gallon of water put i lar^e table-spoonful salt ; thoroughly wash 
and trim 6 heads of celery, and boil them : if large heads, they take 
about twenty-five minutes ; smaller ones, quarter of an hour to twenty 
minutes, to be tender. Put } pint of cream in a stewpan with a blade 
of pounded mare; shake it over the fire till the cream thickens; dish 
the celery, pour over the sauce, and serve. 

5. Marmalade Pudding. — Mix \ lb. suet, finely chopped, with do. 
bread-crumbs in a basin, \ lb. marmalade, and do. sugar; stir well 
together; beat 4 eggs to a froth, and gradually mix well with the 
ingredients ; put in a mould or buttered basin ; tie down with floured 
cloth, and boil for two hours. When turned out, strew fine sifted 
sugar over the top. This pudding will look very pretty if stoned raisins 
are tastefully arranged before the mixture is poured in. 



JANUARY 12. 

' Cod causes the good vjomaiCs purpose to prosper^ 



f , Baked Soles. 
2. Scotch Brose. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Crullars. 



X. Baked Soles. — Clean the sole, and lay in a cloth to dry as if for 
frying. Take it from the cloth, and rub it over with softened but not 
liquid butter ; then dip the fish in a beaten tg%^ and draw it through 
bread-crumbs till well covered ; let it remain a little while, then put on 
a few more crumbs ; put a little butter in a flat dish or baking tin, and 
allow it to melt ; place the fish in it, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
It will take about twenty minutes. If not nicely browned in the oven, 
use a salamander, or if you have not one, make the kitchen shovel 
red hot and carefully brown it Send to table on a napkin, and 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 



41 



garnish with sliced lemon and fried parsley. Anchovy sauce or plain 
butter can be served if approved, but the fish is excellent without 
either. 

2. Scotch Broth. — ^Take a neck of mutton, with the fat raised from oflf 
the best end. Cut oflf the scrag end, and divide it into several pieces 
to make the broth. Let it boil gently a couple of hours, skimming 
well. Then add sliced carrots, onions, turnips, celery, a sprig of 
parsley, pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of split peas, and six table^ 
spoonfuls of pearl barley, both previously steeped in tepid water. 

4. Cruliars, — Rub 6 oz, of butter with ground nutmeg to taste into 
\ lb. of sifted sugar ; beat 4 eggs, whites and yolks separately ; add i^ lbs. 
of flour, and make into a light paste ; roll it into a sheet half an inch 
thick, cut it into long narrow strips, twist them into fanciful forms, and 
fry them of a light brown in lard. Care must be taken to put them into 
the lard when boiling, and a deep pan full of the fat be used, or the 
cruliars will be greasy. 



JANUARY 18- 
' The inu philosopher's stone is to have means, and not to spend injudiciously,^ 



1. Mulligatawny Soup. 

a. Boiled Turkey and Sausages. 

3. Celery Sauce. 



4. Plum-pudding. 

5. Custards in Glasses (Bright*s 

Vegetable are the best). 



1. Mulligatawny Soup, — Parboil, in 2 quarts of water, a couple of 
fowls or rabbits ; cut the meat off the bones, put these and the livers into 
the water ; add a couple of shalots chopped fine, 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
powdered mace and salt, and a salt-spoonful of soluble Cayenne pepper; 
let the bones, etc., boil for an hour and a quarter over a slow fire. 
Cut 4 moderate-sized onions into thin slices, and try them with the 
meat in fresh butter till they are properly browned. When the broth 
has been on the time directed, skim it carefully, strain it through a fine 
sieve, and put in the meat and onion, and let all simmer for five-and- 
twenty minutes ; rub together a table-spoonful of fine flour, and an 
equal quantity of curry powder; stir these by degrees, and after ten 
minutes more slow sitnmering, the soup wiU be ready for table. 

2. Boiled Turkey and Sausages, — Carefully pluck the bird, and singe 
the hair with lighted paper, being careful not to bum or blacken the 
skin. Then draw it, and wipe the inside clean. Cut off the legs at the 
first joints, and draw the sinews ; then pull down the skin, and push 
the legs inside. Cut off the head close to the body^ leaving the skin 



42 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

long ; then draw out the crop. Make a stuffing of suet, bread-cnunbs, 
and parsley, chopped fine ; add pepper, salt, lemon-peel, and a little 
nutmeg, and then mix with two eggs, well beaten, and sufficient milk 
(if required) to wet the whole. The stuffiing is to be placed lightly in 
the breast, so as to leave room for swelling ; and the skin is then drawn 
over it, and sewn neatly across the back. Place the liver in one wing, 
and the gizzard in the other ; turn the wing on to the back, and fix 
them with a skewer. Have ready a deep ketde of boiling water ; put 
in the bird^ let the water boil two minutes^ and then reduce the tem- 
perature. A turkey, according to its size and age, will take from an 
hour and a half to two hours and a half; but if very laige and old, 
three hours. Be careful not to let it boil fast, and to keep the 
turkey covered by adding hot water from time to time. When done, 
place breast upwards, on a large hot dish, and pour a little sauce 
over it 

3. Celery Sauce — ^for boiled turkey. Wash and cut into small pieces 
2 heads of fine white celery ; put it into i^ pints of new milk, and 
simmer (about an hour) till quite tender. Then rub it through a 
fine sieve, beat the yolks of 4 eggs with a gill of thick cream ; mix all 
together, stir over a gende fire for five or six minutes till the sauce 
thickens ; put the fowl on a hot dish, pour \ pint over the breast, and 
put the rest in a sauce tureen. 

4. Plum-Spudding, — A good plum-pudding without any eggs. Mix 
well together 6 oz. currants, do. raisins, \ lb. flour, \ lb. brown sugar, 
\ lb. chopped suet Have ready, of mashed carrot \ lb., and mashed 
potatoes \ lb. ; stir them with the currants, etc. ; then add i oz. candied 
citron, do. of candied lemon-peel, and i table-spoonful of treacle. Do 
not put any liquid whatever in, or it will spoil it. If put in a basin, do 
not fill it, as it must have room to swell ; if in a cloth, tie it loosely, and 
boil it for four hours. It is better to mix this pudding the day before. 
Serve with brandy sauce. 

JANUARY 14. 

* ffer worth shines forth the brightest, who in hope 
Always confides : The abjeci soul despairs. * — EURIPIDES. 



x. cocr-a-leekie. 
2. Broccoli. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Regent's Pudding and Sauce. 



I. Cock-a-leekie, — ^Boil from 4 to 6 lbs. of good shin beef, well broken, 
till the liquor is very good. Strain it, and put it to a capon or large 
fowl trussed as for boiling; and when it boils, half the quantity of 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 



43 



blanched leeks intended to be used, well cleaned, and put in inch 
lengths or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half hour add the remain- 
ing part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pepper and salt The soup 
must be very thick of leeks, and the first part ot them must be boiled 
down into the soup till it becomes a pulp. Serve the capon in a tureen 
with the soup. 

4, Regenfs Pudding and Sauce, — Beat together for ten minutes 2 oz. 
raisins stoned, 2 oz. currants washed and dried, 2 oz. of flour, do. of 
bread-crumbs, do. sugar, do. grated cocoa-nut, 4 oz. suet chopped fine, 
2 ^gs, and \ gill of milk. Put it into a basin, tie a doth over, and 
boil fast for three hours. Serve with a sauce made with a yolk of an 
egg, I gill of cream, i oz. of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of rum, and 
IP drops ot vanilla; beat all together till quite smooth^ and pour over 
the pudding. 



JANUARY IS. 

* To ihitu own self be true; 
And it mustjoliow, as the night the day^ 
Thou canst not then be false to any manJ* — Shakspeake. 



t. Rics Soup. 

2. Boiled Round OP Beep. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Boiled Batter AND Sauce. 



1. Rice Soup. — ^To one quart of broth allow one ounce of rice. Let 
the broth boil j then thoroughly wash and pick the rice ; put it into the 
boiling broth, and let it simmer quietly for half an hour. Carolina rice 
is the best for this purpose. 

2. Boiled Round of Beef . — Rinse it in a pan of cold water, cut out 
the bone, roll it round firmly and bind it fast with a broad tape ; put it 
into the pot, and cover the lid close ; keep it gently simmering, taking 
care to skim before it comes to a boil ; allow a quarter of an hour to 
each pound of beef. 

4. Boiled Batter and Sauce. — Mix by degrees, that the batter may be 
smooth, a pint of new milk with four table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and 
3 eggs well beaten ; beat all together with a wooden spoon for a quarter 
of an hour ; pour in the batter into a buttered basin ; dip a cloth into 
boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over the basin ; plunge it into 
fast-boiling water ; move it quickly up and down for a few minutes, then 
boil for an hour and a quarter. Serve with sweet sauce. 

A simpU Sweet Sauce. — Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of 
baked flour, and stir in ^ of a pint of boiling milk ; add 2 table-spoonfuls 
of moist sugar, and boil five minutes ; flavoured with wine, if liked. 



44 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JANUARY 16. 

* Never anything can be amiss 
IVhen simpleness and duty Under it»^ — Shakspeare. 



1. Pea Soup. 

2. Roast Leg of Pork. 

3. Apple Sauce. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Marrow PuDDiNa 



1. Fca Soup, — One quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin beef, trimmings 
of meat and poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 turnips, 5 large 
onions, i head of celery, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water. Any 
bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock or liquor in 
which meat has been boiled ; boil about foiu: hours. 

2. Koast Leg of Pork. — Let the knuckle be stuffed with sage and 
onion minced fine, bread-crumbs, salt and pepper as before directed. 
Score the crackling, and rub it over with some Florence oil upon a 
brush ; this will assist in giving it a deep brown colour, and prevent it 
from rising in blisters. Serve with apple sauce, fresh mustard, and 
mashed potatoes. 

5. Marrow Pudding, — Blanch eight ounces of sweet almonds, and 
beat them up in a mortar with a table-spoonful of rose-water; chop up 
six ounces of candied orange and citron ; beat up the yolks of \ 
dozen eggs, and add a glass of sherry or Madeira to them ; shred very 
fine I pound of beef marrow, free from the minute bones ; wash and 
pick \ pound of currants ; grate up the crumbs of a French roll : these 
things done, boil a quart of cream, and whilst it is quite hot stir in the 
ingredients, mixing all well together. Rub the sides of a pie-dish with 
butter, put in the above materials, and bake for half an hour. Before 
serving, strew powdered sugar over the top. 



JANUARY 17. 

* Lose no time : he always employed in something useful. Keep out ofaU unnecessary 

action,'— Dk, Franklin. 



X. Haddocks. 

2. Saddle OF Mutton. 

3. Sweet Sauce (Melted Cur- 

rant Jelly). 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Baked Rice Pudding. 



I. Haddocks, — Clean the fish carefully, wash it last in salt and water, 
stuff it with veal stuffing, and sew it up ; fasten the tail to the mouth, 
rub the back lightly over with butter, and then with egg and bread- 
crumbs ; bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters ot an hour. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 45 

Serve surrounded with any fish sauce that is preferred — not on a 
napkin. 

2. Saddle of Mutton^ Roasted, — If wanted to be underdone, will take 
seven minutes to each lb. ; with the gravy in, ten minutes to the lb. ; 
well done, quarter of an hour to the lb. In frosty weather, add a 
quarter of an hour extra to the joint The saddle should be hung 
about ten days. The rump should be split and skewered back on 
each side ; raise the skin and skewer it on again, but take it off a 
quarter of an hour before serving; dredge it with dry flour; put it 
into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping. Being broad, 
it requires a high and strong flre ; hang it quite close for twenty minutes, 
then at a distance till done. A quarter of an hour before, take off the 
paper ; put \ salt-spoon of salt into a tea-cupful of boiling water, pour 
it over Uie mutton, then baste till slightly browned. Four off the fat, 
and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hoiy and 
turn out a pot of red currant jelly on glass dish. 

5. Baked Rice Pudding. — Put a quart of milk into a baking-dish ; 
wash and pick i tea-cupful of rice, put it in the milk, and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of white pounded sugar, half a tea-cupful of minced veal suet, 
a little nutmeg and salt Bake for two hours in a slow oven. 



JANUARY 18. 

^ If I am right ^ Thy grace impart. 

Still in the right to stay : 
Jf I am wron^, oh ! teach my heart 
To find that better «wy.'— POPE. 



1. Calf's-head Soup. 

2. Pigeon Pie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Plum-puddino. 



1. CalfS'head Soup, — Boil the head in just enough water to cover it ; 
when tender, remove the bones, cut the meat in small pieces, and 
season with sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and salt Put all back into 
the pot with the liquor, and thicken it with a little batter ; stew gently 
for an honr; and just as you dish it up, add a glass or two of sherry 
wine, and the yolks of a few eggs boiled hard. 

2. Pigeon Pie. — Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well flat- 
tened and cut to the size ; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and 
soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuff \ dozen pigeons with bread-crumbs 
well mixed with sweet herbs and egg ; rub the birds over with fresh 
butter, and place them on the meat, flUing up the spaces with the yolks 
of eggs boiled hard; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you 
nearly reach the brim ; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven 



46 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

for an hour and a half. Before sending to table, make a small hole in 
the crust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot. It is 
usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in the centre 
of the top paste. 

4. Plum-pudding, — ^The Muscatel raisins are but a little dearer than 
the ordinary ones, if bought loose instead of in bunches. Take if 
lbs. currants, wash and dry them— do not chop, but stone them ; cut 
i^ lbs. of Muscatel raisins, and cut into thin slices 6 oz. mixed candied 
peel ; i lb. of Sultana raisins, 2 lbs. bread-crumbs, 2 lbs. of finest moist 
sugar, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, the rind of 2 lemons, i oz. of 
ground cinnamon, i oz. ground nutmeg, \ oz. bitter almonds, pounded : 
mix all these well together. Take 16 eggs (break each separately, lest 
any should not be quite firesh) ; let them be well beaten and strained, 
and moisten the above ingredients with them by degrees, stirring 
meanwhile ; then add \ pint brandy; well butter and flour a stout new 
pudding-doth ; and when all is thoroughly mixed, put it in the doth, tie 
it down very tightly and closely, boU from six to eight hours, and serve 
with brandy sauce. As this is rather a large pudding, it may be as well 
to divide it, and boil one in a buttered mould. If liked, ornament the 
pudding with some sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips. 



JANUARY 19. 

' That work which is begun well is half done. 
And without prayer no work is weU begun,^ — Lady Fanshawe. 



1. Winter Soup. 

2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and 

Caper Sauce. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Boiled Batter Pudding. 



1. Winter Soup, — To 2\ quarts of water put 2 or 3 pennjrworth of 
bones and 2 lbs. of beef cut in small pieces, | lb. rice, a few sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a large bunch of parsley. A little 
oatmeal or some potatoes are a great improvement, 6 onions, and 6 
turnips. Boil gendy for three hours. 

2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and Caper Sauce, — Cut off the superfluous 
fat, bone the meat, sprinkle over a layer of bread-crumbs, minced 
herbs, and seasoning; roll and bind it up firmly; boil gently for two 
hours. Remove the tape, and serve with caper sauce, a litde of which 
should be served over the meat ; boil two hours. 

4. Boiled Batter Pudding. — Boil in a pint of milk sufficient lemon- 
peel to flavour it ; strain, and mix with it 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, i of 
airow-root, 2 oz. of butter, and sugar to taste; boil up for a few 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 



47 



minutes, sdiring weU. Add 5 well-beaten eggs, whites and yolks 
separately. 



JANUARY 20. 

' Lordf grant nu one suity which is this : Deny me all 
Suits which are bad for me J — FULLER. 



1. Semolina Soup. 

2. Venison Pasty. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Lemon Tartletts. 



1. SemoUfia Soup. — Into 2 pints of boiling broth shake rather less 
than 2 oz. of semolina, keeping the broth stirred during the process. 
Cover closely, and let it simmer for half an hour. Semolina requires 
careful keeping. It is easily damaged by damp or dust 

2, Venison Pasty, — ^Take oflf the skin, and cut the meat oflF the bones 
into pieces of about an inch and a h^ square ; put these, with the 
bones and skin, into a stewpan ; cover them with veal or mutton broth ; 
add a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, \ dozen allspice, 4 chalots chopped 
fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, \ of soluble cayenne, and a tumbler of port 
wine ; stew over a slow fire imtil the meat is half done, then take it out 
and let the gravy continue on the fire whilst the crust for the pastry is 
preparing ; line a good large dish, arrange your meat in it, pour the 
gravy upon it through a sieve, adding the juice of a lemon ; put on the 
top crust, and bake for a couple of hours in a slow oven. 

4. Lemon Tartletts. — ^The juice of 2 lemons and the peel grated; 
clean the grater with bread-crumbs only sufficient to clean the grater 
from all the peel. Beat all together with 2 eggs, \ lb. sugar, and ^ lb. 
of butter. Put it in a light paste, and bake it 



JANUARY 21. 

Sum up at night what thou hast done by day. 

And in the morning what thou hast to do, ' — Geo. Herbert. 



1. JuLiEN Soup. 

2. Shoulder op Mutton. 

3. Sweet Saucb, made of Red 

Currant Jelly, 



4. Mashed Potatoes and Broc< 

coll 

5. Sutherland Pudding. 



I. Julien Soup. — ^This quantity makes about 2 quarts. Clean and 
cut into shreds, an inch long, 2 carrots, i turnip, ^ head celery, or a 
small endive, some spring onions, or the white part of a leek. Put 
them into a saucepan with a dessert-spoonful sugar, a tea-spoonful of 



48 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

salt, do. vinegar, and a quart of cold water; boil about twenty minutes, 
or till tender, and drain it Boil 2 quarts and \ pint of stock, put in the 
vegetables, and boil moderately fast (uncovered) for half hour. Add 
\ grain cayenne and 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and serve at once very 
hot In the winter use leeks and celery, in summer spring onions and 
endive. A tea-cupful of green peas and do. of asparagus are a great 
improvement 

2. Shoulder of Mutton, — Parboil the shoulder, and then put it into a 
stewpan with a quart of good gravy and a little of the water in which it 
has been boiled ; add \ lb. of rice, well washed, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
mushroom ketchup, and let all stew gently together for one hour, or 
until the rice is tender. Take up the mutton out of the pan, and keep 
it warm before the fire*; mix into the rice \ pint of rich cream, and a 
lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil it for a few minutes, stirring it con- 
tinually. Lay the mutton upon a warm dish, and arrange neatly the 
rice around it Garnish with pickled walnuts. 

5. Sutherland Pudding, — ^Blanch 6 bitter and 2 oz. sweet almonds, 
boil them in f pint of new milk tor twenty minutes, then pound them 
to a paste. When the milk is nearly cold, add \ gill of thick cream, 4 
eggs well beaten, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy ; rub 6 oz. of stale 
sponge-cake to crumbs. Mix them all well, and beat for ten minutes ; 
stir in 2 oz. of sifled loaf sugar. Butter a mould ; stick it round in 
Vandykes with dried cherries ; pour in the mixture, tie it over with 
writing-paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for 
an hour and three-quarters. Turn out carefully, and serve directly, 
having the following sauce ready, made thus : — 

Sauce for above. — Moisten a tea-spoonful of arrowroot with a table- 
spoonful of cold milk, and add a gill of boiling milk ; stir in dessert- 
spoonful of loaf sugar sifted, and boil two minutes. Dissolve \ lb. 
pot of cherry jelly, and stir in by degrees ; stir till quite smooth, off the 
fire, and serve in a tureen or the dish. 



JANUARY 22. 

' I do not wish to see my journey, or its length ; 
Assured that, through my Father's lave, each step will brin^ Us strength,* 

— Rev. Elon Foster's CvcLOPiGDiA* 



1. Hare Soup. 

2. Boiled Fowls. 

3. Oyster Sauce. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Comarqu£*s Pudding. 



1. Hare Soup, — Pour on 2 lbs. of shin of beef, and a hare well washed 
and carved into joints (or the remains ot a roasted hare, with the forced 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 49 



meat and gravy), i gallon of cold water ; and when it boils and has 
been skimmed, add 2 oz. of salt, 3 onions, i large head of celery, and 
3 carrots, \ oz. of black peppercorns, and a few cloves. Gently stew 
this for three or four hours, then take up the principal joints, cut the 
meat from them, mince and pound to a paste, with the crun)b of 2 
penny rolls that has been soaked in a little of the boiling soup, and 
then pressed dry in a cloth ; strain, and mix smoothly with it the stock 
from the remainder of the hare. Strain the soup, season with cayenne, 
and serve it when at the point of boiling. 

2. Bailed Fowl. — Having your fowl properly trussed, let it be well 
floured ; rub the quarter of a nutmeg, grated, in a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut ; put this, a pinch of powdered mace, and your fowl 
into a bladder, then pour in a dozen oysters with their liquor ; leave the 
body of the bladder loose, but tie the neck of it very tight, and you 
may then boil in a saucepan containing any other meat ; about five-and- 
twenty minutes is quite time enough ; have a deep dish ready, and you 
will find sufficient and excellent sauce made to your hand when you 
take the fowl out of its case. 

3. Oyster Sauce, — Unless the party is very large, never allow less 
ihaxi 6 oysters to each person. Save the liquor in opening the oysters, 
and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peeL In the 
meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off; strain the 
liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed 
with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little flour 
with it Set them over the fire, and stir all the time ; and when the 
butter has boiled once or twice, take them off ; keep saucepan near the 
fire, but not on it : if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze 
little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great 
improvement Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter 
accordingly. 

5. Comarquis Pudding. — Excellent Five eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls flour, 
2 do. powdered sugar, i:ind of i lemon, \ pint of cream, different kinds 
of preserve. Mode : Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, 
and put them into different basins ; stir the flour, sugar, and lemon- 
peel into the yolks ; whip the cream very thick, and put it on a sieve to 
harden ; then add it with the whites of the eggs to the other ingredients, 
and pour the mixture into little deep saucers just before putting into 
the oven. Bake about half an hour. When they are taken out, a very 
thin Jaycr of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each, piled 
one above another. A litde whipped cream placed here and there on 
the pudding as a garnish much improves the appearance of the dish. 



50 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JANUARY 28. 

* Would you both please and be instructed too, 
IVaUh well the rage of shining to subdue.^ — StILLINGFLEST. 

r. Baked Cod's Head. | 3. Potatoes. 

2. GiBLET Pie. | 4. Baroness Pudding. 

1. BaJud Cod* s Head, — Butter your baking-dish, dean the head well, 
lay it in the dish ; put in an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, a small spoonful of black and white pepper, 3 or 4 blades 
of mace, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, and a 
small piece of horseradish. Rub the head with butter, and strew bread- 
crumbs over it, then send it to the oven. When done, take it out of 
the dish, and lay it carefully in the one in which you intend to serve it 
Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot ; in the 
meantime, pour all the liquor out of the dish in which it was baked into 
a saucepan, set it on to boil three or four minutes, then strain it, and 
put to it a gill of red wine, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint of shrimps, 
and \ pint of oysters or mussels, with the liquor. After straining it, 
add a spoonful of mushroom-pickle, \ lb. of butter rolled in flour, and 
stir all together till it boils ; pour this into the dish, and have ready 
toasted bread, cut in three-comer pieces and fried crisp, of which 
stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round the 
dish. Garnish with lemon, scraped horseradish, and parsley crisped 
before the fire. Lay i slice of lemon on the head, and serve it up 
hot 

2. Gibld Pie. — ^Take 2 sets of giblets nicely cleaned ; put all but 
the livers into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water, 20 con^s of whole 
pepper, 3 blades of mace, a large onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; 
cover close, and stew them till they are tender ; tlien have a good crust 
ready, cover the dish, lay a fine rumpsteak at the bottom, seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; lay in the giblets with the livers, and strain the 
liquor in which they were stewed ; season it with pepper and salt, and 
pour it into the pie ; put on the top crust, and bake it an hour and a 
half. 

4. Baroness Pudding, — Prepare | lb. of suet, by carefully freeing 
it from skin, and chop it finely; stone | lb. of raisins (weigh them 
after being stoned), cut them in halves, and mix both these ingre- 
dients with \ salt-spoonful of salt and f lb. of flour; moisten the 
whole with \ pint of milk. Stir the mixture well, and tie the pudding 
in a floured cloth which has been previously wrung out in boiling 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 51 



water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it 
boil without ceasing four hours and a half (never less time). Serve 
with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the 
pudding. — Mrs. Buton's Recipe. 



JANUARY 24. 

• Dress and undress iky soui: mark the decay 
Andgrowtk of it,* — Geo. Herbert. 

1. OxHEAD Soup. | 3. Mashed Potatoes. 

2. Sweetbread Pie. | 4. Hannah More*s Pudding. 

I. Ox/iead Soup, — Prepare the day before. Soak an ox-cheek in a pan 
of cold water for a couple of hours, after which cleanse it well in two 
or three more waters ; when thoroughly clean, put it into a saucepan 
with 6 quarts of cold water and a good lump of salt, and let it boil very 
gently on a slow fire for two hours, skimming off the scum as it rises, 
just before it comes to a boil ; then lay the head in a dish, pour the 
soup into a pan and set it by in a cold place till next day, when you 
will find a good cake of fat settled on the top : this you must remove 
and set by, as it will be very useful to use in place of butter or lard. 
Then take all the meat off the bones into a clean pot, and cut into 
it 2 large onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, a head of celery, a few allspice 
berries, a l)undle of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley ; cover 
close, and let it stew gently till the carrots be soft, which will be in 
about an hour and a half; then put a lump of the fat which you took 
off the liquor into another saucepan, with a good spoonful or two of 
flour; shake and mix them well over the fire till well browned, then 
add a pint of your soup and let it boil up, when you may pour it into 
the rest, and add pepper and salt to your taste ; let it simmer for half 
an hour, and serve it up. 

2. Sweetbread Fie, — Boil over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a 
neck of veal, and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful ot grated 
nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in poyrder and soluble cayenne, and 
a tea-spoonful of salt ; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to about 
half a pint ; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round 
the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbreads 
stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their liquor, taking 
care that the fish and meat are properly distributed ; then fill the dish 
with the gravy before made, as above ; put on the top crust, and bake 
in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. 



52 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



4. Hannah Moris Pudding, — Six oz. of apples chopped fine, 6 oz. of 
beef suet chopped fine, 6 oz. of bread grated, 6 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of 
raisins stoned and chopped, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, 3 oz. 
of candied peel chopped, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. 
These ingredients to be well mixed, and boikd in a well-buttered quart 
mould for three hours. This pudding should be mixed the day before 
it is cooked. 

JANUARY 2 8. 

' ConUnt is a vessel not built for display, 
TM skis ready and steady, come storm when it may,* — CHARLES SwAIN. 

1. Stewed Oxtails. I 3. Beefsteak Pie. 

2. Mashed Potatoes. | 4. Ipswich Pudding, 

I. Stewed Oxtails, — ^^Vash and divide 2 oxtails at the joints; put 
sufiicient water to cover them, and set them on the fire ; remove the 
scum when the water boils ; add an onion cut into rings, a blade of 
mace, \ tea-spoonful of allspice, 3 cloves, \ tea-spoonful of whole black 
pepper, \ tea-spoonfiil of salt, a small bunch of savouiy herbs ; cover 
the stewpan closely, and let the tails simmer gently for two and a half 
hours, or till tender ; take them out, and add to the gravy a thickening 
of butter and fiour, and boil it for a quarter of an hour. , Strain through 
a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, adding i table-spoonful of 
lemon-juice and i table-spoonfiil of mushroom ketchup ; let the whole 
just boil up, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 

3. Beefsteak Pie, — From 2 to 3 pounds of steak will make a good 
family pie. Trim off part of the fat, should there be much of it If the 
beef should not appear veiy tender, it may be gently beaten with a 
paste-roller imtil the fibre is broken ; then divide into slices, and lay in 
a dish bordered with paste. Season with salt and pepper, and sufficient 
water poured in to make the gravy and keep the meat moist Lay on 
the cover, join it securely to the paste which is round the rim, trim 
both off close to the dish, make an incision through the middle of the 
cover, and lay some slight ornament of paste round it Let the pie 
remain in a well-heated oven for nearly an hour and a hal£ You may 
season with minced onion or eschalot Mushrooms improve all meat- 
pies. 

4. Ipswich Pudding, — Steep in i\ pints of cream 3 oz. of fine white 
bread-crumbs ; pound into a paste ^ pint of blanched almonds in a 
small quantity of orange flour water ; beat up the whites of four and the 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR K 53 

yolks of eight eggs, with \ lb. of lump sugar in powder. Mix these 
together with \ lb. of butter melted ; stir well over a slow fire till the 
mixture is tolerably thick ; place puff paste at the bottom and round 
the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an 
hour. 



JAN UARY 26. 

* Almost any antamental talent is a good things when it is not the best thing a woman 

^AT.'— Hannah More. 



1. Co WHEEL Soup. 

2. Mutton Cutlets. 

3. Potatoes. 



4. Brussels Sprouts. 

5. Suet Dumplings. 



1. Cowhed Soup, — ^Take 2 cowheels ; split them ; remove the oily 
fat and any little bits that are offensive ; wash very clean, and set on 
to stew in 6 quarts of water, adding i lb. of rice and 12 leeks ; flavour 
with thyme, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Let the whole stew 
gently for two hours (more will not hurt) ; skim it well A spoonful 
of vinegar (or better, a little lemon-juice) added when serving is a great 
improvement 

2. Mutton Cutlets, — ^Take some cutlets firom the loin, and carefully 
trim them from all fat (which should be saved as suet for puddings) ; 
just dip them into cold water ; dredge them well on both sides with 
flour, and a little pepper ; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water, 
leaving 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls in it If it can be done, arrange the 
cutlets in one flat layer, and place them over a very gentle fire ; when 
they begin to stew, throw in a little salt, and simmer, without ceasing, 
as softly as possible for nearly an hour and a half. They require dressing 
with great care, and will be tender, nutritious, and invaluable for in- 
valids. It must be most gently stewed^ or the meat will be unfit for 
table, and the gravy dried up. When half done, the cutlets must be 
turned ; if there is not sufficient moisture, add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of cold 
broth, gravy, or water; carefully skim ofl* any remaining fat before 
serving. 

5. Suei Dumplings, — Put a tea-spoonful of salt into 8 oz. of fine 
flour, and mix well with \ dozen oz. of finely-chopped suet ; beat up, 
in a tea-cupfiil of milk, a couple of eggs, and stir these with the other 
ingredients. Tliis will make 8 small dumplings ; they can be either 
tied up separately in cloths covered with flour, or put in ' naked,' and 
boiled for an hour with beef or mutton. 



54 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JANUARY 27. 

*Not what we wish, but what we wan/. 
Oh let Thy ^ace supply / 
TTie good uttask*df in mercy grant; 
The ill, though asUd, deny.* — ^MsRiaCK. 



1. Hashed Ha&e and Red 

Currant Jelly. 

2. Potatoes. 



3. Broccoli. 

4. Hasty Pudding. 



I. Hashed Hare and Red Currant felly. — Put in a stewpan half a 
pint of good beef gravy, of the thickness of cream, until it boils. Draw 
it from the fire, and put in the remains of the cold hare and stuffing. 
Cover closely, and keep it to boiling point ; but on no account let it 
boil, or it will be hard, etc. Make forcemeat (into balls) of \ lb. suet 
chopped very fine, 2 oz. of ham or bacon shred (mince very fine), 

1 tea-spoonful of sweet herbs and i tea-spoonfiil of parsley, and rind of 
half a lemon ; add salt, mace, and cayenne to the taste, and mix well 
together with the bread-crumbs before wetting ; then beat and strain 

2 eggs, and work them up with the other ingredients. When made 
into balls, fiy in boiling lard of a nice brown, or put them on a dn and 
bake them for half an hour in a moderate oven. Some add the liver, 
boiled for five minutes and minced veiy small, but it must be very 
fresh. Garnish the dish with the hot balls when the hare is thoroughly 
heated through ; add a spoonhil of some nice sauce to the gravy, and 
pour over it Serve with red currant jelly. 

4. Hasty Pudding, — Boil i quart of milk with 4 bay-leaves ; beat 
up the yolks of 2 eggs and a little salt ; stir in the milk ; then take out 
the bay-leaves, and with a wooden spoon in one hand, with the other 
sprinkle in flour, and keep stirring it till it is of a good thickness. Let 
it boil, and keep it stirring ; then pour it into the dish, and stick pieces 
of butter here and there. 



JANUARY 28. 

• Mahe no expense, but to do good to others or yourself; that is, waste 

nothing.* — Dr. Franklin. 



1. Mutton Soup. 

2. Sweetbread. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. 



4. Broccoli. 

5. Apple Fritters. 



1. Mutton Soup. — Have two scrags of mutton ; joint them, and wash 
off any congealed blood j then put them in a stewpan with i gallon of 



BILL OB FARE FOR JANUARY. 55 

water, to which add 3 onions, 3 turnips,, and i carrot cut in pieces. 
Bring it to the boil, then set it to simmer for three hours, keeping it 
well skimmed, and adding salt and pepper. Now cut up i small 
carrot, 2 turnips, i onion, with a little leek and celery, into small 
pieces, and put them with a wine-glassful of pearl barley into another 
stewpan. Remove every particle of fat from the broth, and pour it 
through a hair sieve on to the fresh vegetables, and let it boil gently till 
the barley is cooked, when it is ready to serve. Cut the meat into 
nicely sized pieces, and serve separately, covered with parsley or onion 
sauce. 

2. Sweetbread, — Let the sweetbread be well secured with small 
twine, and roast it before a good bright fire, taking care that it be 
constantly basted with plenty of fresh butter, and that you allow it 
twenty-five minutes or half an hour. 

5. Apple Fritters, — Peel and core 12 dumpling apples boiled quite 
soft; force the pulp through a sieve; add sugar to your taste. 
Thicken, moderately, i quart of new milk with fine flour; beat up 8 
eggs with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, powdered mace, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a glass of brandy ; mix well all together. Let the 
frying-pan be quite hot, and melt \ lb. of butter in it ; place the batter 
in the pan in separate quantities of about two spoonfuls each ; put a 
spoonful of apple pulp on every portion, and cover with two more 
spoonfuls of batter. Grate sugar over them, and serve with a fresh 
lemon. 



JANUARY 29. 

* The character of ccvctottsncss is generally etcquired more through some niggardliness 
or ill grace in little^ inconsiderable things, than in expenses of any conseptence, A very 
few pounds a year would ease that woman of the scandal of avarice J* — Pope. 



1. German Pea Soup. 

2. Mutton and Beef Pie. 

3. Potatoes. 



4. Scotch Kale. 

5. Mince Pies. 



I. German Pea Soup, — Prepare a thickening by gradually mixing 
in a stewpan 3 oz. of sifted flour with i quart of chicken broth. In 
another stewpan boil up 2 quarts of chicken broth, into which stir the 
thickening ; add a little salt and sugar, and i quart of yellow peas ; 
continue stirring with a spoon till the soup boils, then simmer till the 
peas are done ; skim, pour the soup in a tureen, and stir in an ounce 
and a halt of butter. 



56 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Mutton and Beef Pit. — Line a deep dish with good dripping crust. 
Beat the meat with your FoUing-pin, then broil it in the lump for ten 
minutes ; cut it in slices, and lay it in the dish with thin strips of salt 
pork alternately ; season it with pepper and salt, and put in a lump of 
butter (about 2 oz.), some mushroom ketchup, and water thickened 
with flour, enough to nearly fill the dish ; cover it with the upper crust, 
and bake for an hour and a quarter, or a litde longer if the crust be 
thick. 

5. Mince Pies, — ^Take equal weights of tender roast beef, suet, 
currants, raisins, and apples which have been previously pared and 
cored, with half their weight ot soft sugar, i oz. of powdered cinnamon, 
an equal quantity of candied orange and lemon peel and citron, a little 
salt, and 12 bitter almonds blanched and grated. Chop the meat and 
the suet separately ; wash and pick the currants ; stone the raisins, and 
chop them with the peel ; and having minced all the ingredients very 
fine, mix them together, adding a nutmeg grated and the juice of a 
lemon. A glass or two of wine or spirit greatly improves it Line 
your dish or pattypans with puff paste ; fill with the mince ; cover, and 
pinch the edges together. Bake half an hour. Many persons make 
the mince without meat. 



JANUARY SO. 

' Temper your enjoyments with prudence.^ lest there he written upon your hearts that 

feafful word, * ' Satiety. " * — ^Lavater. 



1. Sturgeon, Roast. 

2. Do. Garnished. 

3. Devonshire Squab Pie. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Open Tarts. 

6. Gravy. 



r. Sturgeon^ Roast — Wash and skin the fish bone; fill the part 
where the bones came from, and fill it with veal stuffing. For stuffing, 
mince finely and mix i oz. suet, i oz. bacon, i oz. butter, z small 
tea-spoonful of minced savoury herbs, and parsley, salt, nutmeg, and 
cayenne to taste, 4 oz. bread-crumbs. Shred a little onion when 
liked , beat all smoothly together with i tgg ; roll it in buttered paper ; 
bind it firmly with tape, like a fillet of veal , and roast it before a clear 
fire, in a Dutch oven. Have plain melted butter, or a rich brown 
gravy. Takes about an hour roasting. 

2. Garnish for Ditto. — Cut the crumb of a stale loaf into small 
pyramids with fiat tops, and put rather more than a table-spoonlul 
of white ot egg, beaten to a stiff froth, on the top of each pyramid. 
Over this sprinkle finely chopped parsley and fine dark raspings. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR K ' 57 

Arrange these alternately, one green and one brown, on the napkin 
round the fish. 

3. Devonshire Squab Pie, — Cover the inside of your dish with a thin 
paste, and lay at the bottom mutton chops rolled in pepper and salt ; 
then strew on a mixture of sliced onions and apples, then some more 
chops, alternately, till you have filled the dish ; pour on some water, 
put on the cover, and let it bake for two hours. 

5. Open Tarts. — Line your dishes with thin light paste, fill in with 
preserved fruits or jam, and lay strips of paste across in squares or 
diamonds. A short time will bake them. 

6. Gravy, — Slice, flour, and fry a light brown, in 2 oz. of butter, 
I large carrot, 2 onions ; then add 3 pints of boiling water, with a 
bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a wine-glassful of 
good beer. It is much improved with the addition of a little mushroom 
ketchup or other sauce. 



JANUARY 81. 
*Envy is Blind, and Aas no other quality but thai of detracting from virtue,^ — LiVY. 

1. Plaice. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Boiled Pork. I 4. Hard Dumplings. 

1. Plaice. — ^Take veal or beef broth, and convert it into gravy by 
seasoning, thickening, and colouring ; it should be rather thicker than 
you intend to serve. If veal stock is used, make it rather sharp with 
lemon, and use cayenne pepper, keeping the gravy white. If the stock is 
of beef, flavour with Worcestershire sauce, and make it of a rich brown 
with caramel Put the gravy when made into a stewpan, and let it boil 
up. In the meanwhile, wash the plaice in salt and water, and boil it 
till nearly done ; then draw it up on the strainer, and cut it into con- 
venient pieces, letting it drain as much as possible ; take out the roe, 
bruise it and stir it into the gravy ; then place the fish in, and let it 
simmer till perfectly cooked ; dish with sippets of toasted bread. 

2. BoiUd Park, — Pork requires to be particularly well cooked, and 
should therefore be boiled on an average twenty minutes or more, if the 
joint be very large. Place the joint in the boiler, with the skin side 
upwards, and put a dish or plate at the bottom, to prevent it sticking. 
Put it into cold water, if it be salted ; but with fresh pork lollow the 
general directions for boiling. 

4. Hard Dumplings, — Make a stiff" paste of flour and water with a little 
salt Boil them with the pickled pork. 



5« 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JANUARY. 

In the middle of the table, a stand containing vases of flowers, 
candelabra, or baskets of fresh fruits, tastefully arranged with foHage. 
If for a dessert (Tilitey groups of figures or other statuary may be 
introduced. 



1. Madei&aCake. 

2. Compote d'Oranges. 

3. Compote DE PoiREs. 

Two Baskets of Fresh Fruits. 
Apples, Oranges. 

4. Biscuits d'Amandes. 



5. Petits Souffles a l'Italienne. 

Nuts, Dates, French Prunes, 
GuAVA Jelly, Lumps of De- 
light, etc. 

6. Chestnuts. 



I. MADEIRA CAKE. 

Take 4 large or 6 small fresh eggs ; beat them constantly for twenty 
minutes ; then, by degrees, add to them 6 oz. of fine loaf sugar pounded 
and sifted, 6 oz. of the best wheaten flour previously well dried, and put 
into a dredger, so as to dredge it in gently, 4 oz. of dissolved but cold 
fresh butter, and a little grated lemon-peel. When these ingredients 
are thoroughly mingled, briskly stir in a salt-spoonful of carbonate of 
soda ; put the cake quickly into a mould, and bake it for a good hour 
in a moderately heated oven. 

2. COMPOTE D'ORANGES. 

Take 4 or 5 sweet oranges, pull off every particle of peel and white 
pellicle; cut them into quarters, take out their pips, and throw the 
fruit into a strong sjTup, prepared with \ pint of water, 10 oz. of loaf 
sugar, a glass of cognac, and the strained juice of 2 oranges. After the 
fruit has come to a boil, retire the saucepan from the fire, lay the oranges 
in your dish, reduce the syrup by boiling it down and skimming it, and 
when cool enough pour it over the fruit. A large double handful of 
sugar is sometimes put in the centre of the dish just before serving ; 
and some neat slips ot the outer rind of the oranges may be advan- 
tageously added to the syrup. 



3. COMPOTE DE POIRES A LA CARDINALE. 

Throw your pears into cold water without paring them ; place them 
upon a very gentle fire, and simmer them slowly for seven minutes. 



DESSERT FOR JANUAR Y. 59 

Take them up ; peel, core, and cut them into halves or quarters as pre- 
ferred ; put them into a preserving-pan with their weight of fine loaf 
sugar, and a tea-cupfiil each of red wine and water. Do them very 
slowly over a slack fire, and when of a good colour place them in the 
compotier, skim the syrup, and pour it over them. Should the pears 
be very ripe^ they may be peeled, cored, cut up, and at once done in 
the syrup. 

4. BISCUITS D'aMAKDES. 

Carefully blanch ^ lb. each of sweet and bitter almonds ; pound them 
in a mortar until they form a smooth paste, but add the whites of 2 
eggs to prevent the almonds from turning oily. Beat together the 
yolks of 8 eggs and i^ lbs. of fine loaf sugar in powder. Well whisk the 
whites of the eggs ; put them with the almonds ; add the yolks, and 
graduaUy thicken it with 4 oz. of flour rubbed together with another 
pound of loaf sugar finely powdered and sifted. Lay the paste thus 
prepared in small paper cases, strew sugar over the tops, and bake them 
in a slow oven. When cold, divest them of their cases. 

5. PETITS SOUFFLES A L'ITALIENNE. 

Beat well together 12 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, the whites of 3 eggs, 
and the rasped rind of a sweet orange. When this is a smooth paste, 
lay portions of it, as thinly as you can, in rounds upon greased paper. 
Place some very fine slips of candied citron-peel in the middle of each, 
wet the edges, cover the soufil^s with a similar shaped piece of the 
paste, press them together, put them into a slow oven, and when done, 
and suffered to grow cold, take them from the papers, glaze them with 
an icing, and place them in a warm spot to set 

6. CHESTNUTS. 

The most elegant method of serving chestnuts is to dress them as 
foDows : — Let them be well roasted, and the husks taken off; dissolve 
i lb. of sugar in a wine-glassful of water, and the juice of a lemon ; 
put this and the chestnuts into a saucepan over a slow fire for ten 
minutes; serve in a deep dish, and grate sugar over the top. 




FEBRUARY L 

' Experienct is fy iaduslry aekitt^d. 
And pcrficled by llu aottt courutftit 



PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 
Meat : Beer— Malton — Veal — House-Lamb— Porlt — Venison— Brawn. 
Poultry : Turkeys— Capons— Pullets— Fowls— Tame Pigeons- Rabbits— ChLclcen* 

— Ducltlings, 
[These two last are now to be bought at high prices ; but they are best wh«n 

cheapest.] 
Game : Hares— Wild Fowl. 
Fish : Barbel (the spawn of this fish is poisonous)— Brill— Carp— Cockles— Cod— 

Dabbs — Dace — Eels — Flounders — Haddocks — Herrings — Ling — Lobsters — 

Mussels-Oysten— Perch— Pike— Plaice — Salmon— Shrimps — Skate — Smelts 

—Tench— Turbot. 
Vegetables : Broccoli— Brussels Sprouts — Leeks — Parsley and (through the year) 

Parsnips, 

FRUITS IH SEASON. 
Nuts and Walnuts, and Foreign dried Fruits— Golden and Dutch Pippins — Pears — 
Grapes — Medlars— Oranges— French and Spanish Plums — Prunes — Figs — Dates 
— Ciyslalliied Preserves. 

I. Turbot. i 4. Phim-pudding. 

3. Rolled Ribs of Beef. 5. Saijce to Do. 

3. Fkied Potatoes. | 

I. Turbot. — Lay it in plenty of salt and water for an hour. In the 
meantime, set on a fish-kettle with spring-water and salt, and a piece of 
horseradish. Lay the turbot on a fish-plate, with the belly upwards, 
and put it in the kettle ; let it be well boiled through, but not over- 
done ; it will require from half an hour to three-quarters after it boils, 
according to the thickness. It should boil slowly. When it is done 
enough, take off the fish-kettle, set it before the fire, then carefully lift 
up the fish-plate, and set it across the kettle to drain ; during which 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 



6i 



melt a good deal of fresh butter, and bruise in the spawn of one or two 
lobsters, and the meat cut small, with a spoonful of anchovy liquor ; 
then give it a boil, and pour it into boats. Now lay the turbot in the 
dish, and garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon. 

2. Rolled Ribs of Beef, — Bone and roll the meat round, secure it 
with wooden skewers, and, if necessary, bind it round with a piece of 
tape. Spit the beef firmly, and place it near a nice clear fire ; let it 
remain so till the outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, 
and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be 
ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the fire. As this 
joint is solid, rather more than a quarter of an hour to the lb. must be 
allowed. Send the joint to the table with gravy in the dish, and 
garnish with tufts of horseradish. 

4. Plum-pudding, — Half lb. of flour, \ lb. of grated bread, i lb. of 
currants well washed and dried, i lb. of raisins stoned and cut, the peel 
of a lemon finely chopped, i^ oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 2 oz. 
of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and citron 
peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, and 3 wine-glasses of 
brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as necessary 
to maJce the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped 
mould for eight hours. 

5. Saua to Ditto, — ^The yolks of 3 eggs, i table-spoonful of powdered 
sugar, I gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wine-glass- 
fuls of brandy. Mode : Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, 
and put the former into a stewpan ; add the sugar, milk, and grated 
lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do 
mt allow it to boil. Put in the brandy ; let the sauce stand by the 
side of the fire, to get quite hot ; keep stirring it, and serve in a tureen 
separately, or pour it over the pudding. 



FEBRUARY 2. 

• Be ehtcMdfor silence ^ 
But never tax* d for speech,* — SHAKSPEAR& 



I. Bkoiixd Haddocks. 
3. Haunch of Mutton and Cur- 
rant Jelly Sauce. 
3. Brussels Sprouts. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Remains op Plum-pudding 

FRIED IN Slices. 



1. Broiled Haddocks, — Scale, gut, and wash them clean. Do not 
rip open the bellies, but take out the guts with the gills ; dry them in a 



62 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

dean cloth ; and if there be any roe or liver, take it out, wash and dry 
it, and put it in again j flour them well, and have a clear brisk Are. 
Clean your gridiron, and let it get hot ; then lay on your fish ; turn 
them two or three times at first, to keep them fi-om sticking ; then let 
one side be done enough, and turn it on the other. When done, lay 
them in a dish, and serve them with plain melted butter or anchovy 
sauce. 

2. Haunch of Mutton and Currant Jelly Satue, — Keep it as long as 
you can. When to be dressed, wash it well, put a paste of coarse flour 
on strong paper, and fold the haunch in. Set it at a great distance from 
the fire ; do not take ofi* the paste till about half an hour before serving, 
and then baste it well A gravy must be made of i lb. of old mutton 
simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt BroWn 
it with a little burnt sugar. 



FEBRUARY S. 

' To be idle and unemployed^ is a sign not ottly of a weak kead^ but of a bad heart.*- 

' W. DoDD, LL.D. 



1. Fried Herrings. 

2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

3. Caper Sauce, or Pickled Nas- 

turtium Seeds, or Chopped 

GUJ^RKINS THROWN INTO WhITE 

Sauce. 



4. Mashed Turnips. 

5. Potatoes. 

6. Lemon Dumplings, Sifted 

Sugar over them. 

7. Brandy Sauce or Wine Do. 



1. Fried Herrings. — Gut and wash them clean, and dry them in a 
cloth ; £iy them brown ; have ready some onions sliced thin ; fiy them 
of a light brown, with the herrings ; lay the herrings in a dish, and the 
onions round, with butter and mustard in a cup. Dress them on a 
quick fire. 

2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Do not keep it too long before cooking; 
when put into the pot, let it be well covered in cold water, with a 
dessert-spoonful of salt ; take off all the scum as it arises, and allow it 
only to simmer. 

6. Lemon Dumplings {sifted sugar over them). — With 10 oz. of fine 
bread-crumbs mix i large table-spoonful of flour, J lb. of finely chopped 
beef-suet, the grated rinds of 2 small lemons, 4 oz. of pounded sugar, 
3 large eggs beaten and strained, and last of all the juice of 2 lemons, 
also strained. Divide the mixture into four dumplings, tie them in 
well-floured cloths, and let them boil an hour. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 63 



FEBRUARY 4. 

' The care taken to prevent *'eftnui" is but a creditable plan far promoting 

self-ignorance,^ — HANNAH More. 



1. Baked Haddocks. 

2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg 

OF Mutton hashed. 



3. Potatoes and Broccoll 

4. Maccaroni Pudding. 



1. Baked Haddocks, — Gut and clean your haddocks, and lay them 
all night in salt Next day skin them carefully, and cut ofi the heads, 
tails, and fins; stuff them with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and 
onions, worked up with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt. Rub them 
over with butter ; roll them in bread-crumbs, and bake them, or put 
them in a Dutch oven before the fire. 

2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg of MuUon hashed, — Cut it in thin 
slices, fat and lean ; flour them ; have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 
3 spoonfuls of water ; add to it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and 
make it hot, but not to boil Serve in a covered dish ; a spoonful of 
currant jelly and half a glass of port wine will give an agreeable 
flavour. 

4. Maccaroni Pudding, — Simmer i or 2 oz. of the pipe sort in a pint 
of milk and a bit of lemon and cinnamon till tender; put it into a dish 
with milk, 2 or 3 eggs, but only i white ; sugar, nutmeg, and a half glass 
of laisin wine, or table-spoonful of brandy. Bake with a paste round 
the edges. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam in this 
pudding, for change, is a great improvement ; in which case omit the 
almond water, or ratifia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. 



•0- 



FEBRUARY 8. 



• Austerity driva the gentU spirit to artifice^ and the rugged to despair^ and generates 

deceit and cunning,* — Hannah More. 



1. Roast Shoulder of 

Mutton. 

2. Onion Sauce. 



3. Haricot's Beans. 

4. Potatoes. 

5. Custard Pudding. 



I. Roast Shoulder oj Mutton. — Cut out the vein fi"om the under part; 
hang before a good fire, and baste constantly; half an hour before 
serving, sprinkle with halt salt-spoonful of salt, dredge with a little 
flour, and baste again till done. Pour oft all the fat, add a tea-cupfiil 
ot boiling water to the ' dripped ' gravy, pour it on the dish, and serve 
very hot As a shoulder is generally liked well done, allow sixteen 
minutes to the lb. 



64 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Ontoft Sauce, — Boil 4 onions in plenty of water for half an hour, 
with a tea-spoonful of salt in it ; press out the water ; chop the onions 
quite fine, boil them small ; add \ oz. of butter ; serve in a tureen. 

5. Custara Pudding, — Boil i^ pints of new milk, and when quite hot 
thicken it by stirring in finely-sifted flour ; these must be well mixed ; then 
add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, \ of a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or 
Madeira, and 5 eggs well beat up. When all these materials have been 
properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides 
of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hoiu:*s baking in a 
moderately quick oven. 



FEBRUARY 6. 

' Christianity does not so much give us new affections or faculties^ as a new 
direction to those we already have.'' — Hannah More. 



1. Pea Soup. 

2. Remains op Cold Roast 

Shoulder of Mutton hashed. 



3. Potatoes. 
4. Snow Pancakes. 



1. Pea Soup.-^TYiis soup should be made with liquor in which any 
kind of meat has been boiled, but the liquor of salt pork gives it a more 
savoury flavour. Wash i quart of peas perfectly clean, put them into a 
pot with the bones and 3 carrots sliced thin, and simmer gently for 
about an hour ; then add 4 onions cut in thin slices, a head of celery, a 
few sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley chopped very fine; and let 
the whole stew gently for three hours longer, taking care to stir it now 
and then, as the peas are apt to bum. Press the whole through a 
colander with a spoon, season it with pepper and salt to your palate, 
put it over the fire again to have it quite hot, and serve it up with some 
thin toasted bread, and some dried mint rubbed fine. 

2. Remains of Cold Roast Shoulder of Mutton hashed, — Put into a 
stewpan a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, a large onion peeled and 
sliced, and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and simmer till quite brown. 
Cut into neat slices about | lb. of cold roast mutton, sprinkle over 2 
dessert-spoonfuls of dried flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful 
of black pepper, \ a grain of cayenne. Put it in the stewpan with the 
onions ; pour over \ pint of either gravy or water, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
walnut ketchup ; shake the pan frequently, and simmer for half an hour, 
and serve very hot, garnished with three-cornered sippets of toasted 
bread, placed round the hash at equal distances. 

4. Snow Pancakes, — Beat up \ lb. of flour in milk till you have a 
stiff batter ; add a spoonful ot salt, a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Divide 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 



65 



the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each portion 
add 3 table-spoonfuls of pure snow. Fry in fresh butter. 



FEBRUARY 7. 
* It is a certain sipi of an ill heart to be inclined to defamation,* — W. DODD, LL.D. 



1. Baked Cod. 

2. Boiled Aitch-bone OP Beef 

(SAYS Liquor for Soup). 

3. Carrots AND Turnip. 



4. Suet Dumplings boiled with 

THE Beef. 

5. Orange Pudding. 



1. Baked Cod, — Stuff with a seasoning made of bread-crumbs, 
batter, salt, pepper, and (if agreeable) parsley and spices. Put the fish 
in a baking-dish, with a cupful of water and a lump of butter. Bake 
from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 

2. Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef {save Liquor for Soup), — ^Wash the meat 
after it has been in salt for five or six days ; if too salt, soak it for a 
few hours, changing the water once or twice. Put into a saucepan with 
water sufficient to cover, and when the water boils, plunge in die joint, 
and let it boil up quickly. Then put the pot to the side of the fire, and 
the water must only simmer gently for two and a half hours for a joint 
weighing 10 lbs. (or four hours for 20 lbs.). Carefully remove the scum 
from the surface of the water, especially for a few minutes after boiling. 
Suet dumplings may be boiled with the beef. Garnish and serve with 
turnips, and carrots when in season. Save the liquor for soup. 

5. Orange Pudding, — Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, grate the rinds of 
a couple of Seville oranges; add to ^ese ^ of a lb. of finely-powdered 
sugar, the same weight of firesh butter, 3 spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, 2 glasses of sherry, a couple of Naples biscuits, and a tea-cupful 
of cream ; line the bottom, sides, and rim of a dish with puff paste, 
pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. 



FEBRUARY 8. 

• One self-approving hour whole years outweighs J* — POPB, 



I. Soup from Remains of Aitch- 
BONK OF Beef, with Vege- 
tables. 



2. Roast Beef Tongue. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Lemon Pudding. 



I. Soup from Remains of Aitch-bone of Beefy with Vcgetabtes.^^Oit it in 
pieces ; put it into 2 quarts of water ; skim it ; put in 2 or 3 blades of 
mace, some parsley, and a crust of bread ; boil it Toast bread, and 
cut into dice. 



66 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



2. Roast Beef Tongue, — Boil it a couple of hours, then peel off the 
skin, and lay thin strips of bacon ; roll it in a cheek of mutton Cat, and 
roast it When done, take off the roll of fat, and pour over it any 
brown sauce highly seasoned. 

4. Lemon Pudding, — Mix together \ lb. of butter and loaf sugar, 
and \ pint of milk ; put all together into a saucepan, and let it dissolve 
(but not allowed to boil) ; when nearly cool, add 3 eggs well beaten, 
the rind of a large lemon grated, and a little juice ; line the dish with a 
thin paste, and bake it 



FEBRUARY 9. 

' Use no hurtful deceit ; think innocently and justly ; and if you speak, 
speak accordingly,^ — Dr. Franklin. 



1. Mock Turtle Soup. 

2. Bullock's Heart. 

3. Potatoes. 



4. Brussels Sprouts. 

5. Greengage Tart. 



1. Mock Turtle Soup, — ^Take a calfs head, the skin having been 
scalded and the hair scraped off clean ; wash it thoroughly ; take out 
the brains, and boil them separately till done enough. Put the head 
into a pot with more water than will cover it Skim it frequendy till it 
boils, and let it boil for an hour, but very gently. Take it out, and, 
when cool, cut the meat into pieces of about an inch square. Scrape 
and cut the tongue in the same manner. Lay all these pieces aside, 
then put into the water in which the head was boiled about 3 or 4 lbs. 
ot leg of beef and a knuckle of veal — the meat cut small, and the bones 
broken. Add 4 or 5 onions, a carrot and turnip sliced, a small bunch 
of sweet herbs, and some whole black and Jamaica pepper. Boil 
all together slowly for four or five hours, then strain it and let it cool, 
then take off the fat. Now melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put to 
it 2 hand^s of flour, and let it brown, stirring it all the time. Add a 
little ot the soup, a sprig or two of sweet basil, and a few sprigs of 
parsley. Boil thus for a quarter of an hour, strain it through a sieve, 
put it, with the pieces of meat, into the soup, with the brains pounded, 
and boil all together for an hour. Add \ a tea-cupfiil of ketchup, the 
juice of a lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste, also 4 glasses of 
sherry ; and when dished in a tureen, put in 2 dozen of forcemeat-balls, 
and die same quantity of egg-balls. 

2. Bullocks Heart, — Wash it well inside and out with salt water, and 
let it hang as long as the weather will allow ; stuff it with veal stuffing, 
and keep basting continually. Any roast beef gravy will do. Serve widi 
gravyi well seasoned with a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 



67 



5. Greengage Tart, — Select fruit not quite ripe, but perfectly sound \ 
fill a pie-dish with them; beat up \ lb. of powdered sugar, in as 
much spring water as will dissolve it ; pour this over the fruit, cover 
with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of 
yolk of ^g with a brush over your crust ; put the tart back in the oven 
for a few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before 
scmng. 



FEBRUARY lO. 

* A desire of gain to support any idle expense^ taints by degrees the purest minds; 
wtaltA is then the only object of desire^ and poverty the only mark of disgrace J* 

— ^Fenelon. 



1. Plaics. 

2. The Remainder OF THE Bull's 

Hea&t. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Currant and Apple Pudding. 



1. Plaice.-^ln dressing all sorts of flat fish, take great care, if you 
hoU them, to have them done enough, but do not let them break. Put 
plenty of salt in the water, also horseradish; let the fish be well 
drained, and cut off the fins when cleaning them. When to be fried, 
let them be well dried in a cloth ; ^^ and bread-crumb them, and fiy 
them of a light brown ; use plenty of fat ; and when done, drain the 
fish on a clean coarse doth. 

2. T?U Remainder of the BulPs Heart, — Slice it, and hash it up in its 
own gravy ; add to it a dessert-spoonfiil of currant jelly, and mind you 
do not let it boil. Forcemeat-balls make an appropriate garnish. 

4. Currant and Apple Pudding. — Of each of the following materials 
take 6 oz. : grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet \ 
to these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon, and 
citron peel mixed, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Boil 
for two hours in a well-buttered mould. 



FEBRUARY 11. 

' Uve not above your condition^ either from ostentation or to glory in your wealthy 
from false shame or to conceal your poverty.* — Fenelon. 



I. Shin of Beef Soup. 
X Stewed Oxchsek. 
3. Potatoes. 



4. Broccoli. 

5. Bread and Butter Pudding. 



I. Shin of Beef Soup. — ^Take a. shin of beef (say 10 lbs.), break 
it in several pieces, take the bone from the meat, take out the marrow, 



68 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

lay it in the bottom of a clean saucepan, and put in the meat to brown ; 
turn it about well, and take care that it does not burn. When brown 
all over, put in a pint of cold water and a lump of salt, shake it well 
up, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour ; then add 5 quarts of water, 

2 or 3 onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, cut in dice, a head of celery and a 
few sweet herbs, a few allspice berries, and whole black pepper. Let 
it simmer slowly for five hours, then skim the fat from the top as closely 
as possible, after which take out a cupful of the soup ; let it cool till 
you are able to mix up in it two table-spoonfuls of flour, and then add 
it gradually to the rest of the soup ; shake it all well together, and give 
it a boil up, when it will be ready for table. 

2. Stewed Oxcheek, — ^The fresher the better. Get your butcher to 
trim it nicely for you, taking out the eyes, etc. ; then boil in the soup- 
kettle three hours, trim off all the unsightly bits, and make it look like 
an oval lump of meat ; then put it into a deep stewpan, cover it with 
its own liquor, and season to taste. In the course of an hour or so 
add 4 or 5 onions, and some celery and parsnips. Continue to stew 
till quite tender. When served up, put the vegetables round the dish, 
and the hot gravy poured over all. 

5. Bread and Butter Pudding, — Cut some thin slices of buttered 
French roll; have i^ oz. currants well washed, picked, and dried; 
thickly strew currants over these; beat up the yolks of 3 and the 
whites of 2 eggs in rather more than half a pint of new milk ; add 

3 oz. of powdered sugar. Fill the bottom of the dish with a thin layer 
of currants, then put some of the bread and butter, then a layer of 
currants, and so on till your dish be filled; pour the milk and eggs 
over the bread, grate enough nutmeg to cover the surface, and bake for 
forty minutes. 



FEBRUARY 12. 

* Inborn courage^ 
The generous child of Fortitude- and Faith, 
Holds its firm empire in the constant soul.* — HANNAH Mo&E. 



I. Soup made from the Remains 
OP THE Oxcheek, with thb 
Addition of Vegetables. 



2. Beefsteak Pie. 

3. Potatoes. 

4. German Puddings. 



2. Beefsteak Fie. — Invert a cupful of highly seasoned liquor in the 
centre of the dish. Cut the steak into pieces about the size of an 
helping ; flour, pepper, and salt each piece ; place them neatly in the 
dish, with a few pieces of fat here and there, — 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
cut in slices, are good ; then pour over the whole some liquor, and 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 69 

cover with a good stout crust, and bake thoroughly. The crust put on 
when the meat is wanned through, is best for the crust. 

4. German Puddings. — ^Mix J lb. of flour with \ lb. of butter, and 
the same weight of loaf sugar ; beat up 4 eggs in half a pint of milk ; 
stir all the materials well together, then divide into four parts ; bake 
in tea-cups, and serve with sweet sauce or white wine. 



FEBRUARY IS. 

* Felt Luxury I more perilous to youth 
Thtn storms or quit hands, foverty or chains.'' — HANNAH More. 



1. Broiled Herrings. 

2. Loin op Mutton. 

3. Onion Sauce. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Fruit Pie. 



I. Broiled Herrings. — Scale and gut them ; cut off the heads ; wash 
them dean, and dry them in a cloth ; flour and broil them ; mash the 
heads ; boil them in small beer or ale, with a little whole pepper and 
an onion. Let it boil for a quarter of an hour ; strain it ; then thicken 
it with butter and flour, and a good deal of mustard. Lay the herrings 
on a dish, and pour the sauce into a boat. 

2- Ltfin of Mutton. — Cut it when roast lengthwajrs, as a saddle. 

3. Onion Sauce. — Boil the onions until tender, changing the water 
occasionally to render them more mild. Strain, and mash the onions 
in a bowl, adding butter and salt. Warm up again, and mix the whole 
thoroughly. 

5. Fruit Fie. — Divide into two slices each as many sponge-cakes as 
will be required for the size of your dish ; put a layer of these, with the 
brown side downwards, at the bottom of the pie-dish ; then fill with 
cunants and raspberries, plums, damsons, greengages, or whatever fruit 
the season affords. Sprinkle well with fine Lisbon sugar, and pour in 
water nearly to the brim ; place a portion of the cut cakes upon the 
trait as an upper crust, and let the dish be put in the oven for forty 
minutes. 



FEBRUARY 14. 

^Honemr^ as a principle, is the refinement 0/ virtue ; as an ettd, it is the splendour 0/ 
reputation, the reward 0/ such virtue.* — W. DoDD, LL.D. 

1. Broiled Eels. i 3. Potatoes. 

2. Stewed Rump-steak. | 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 

I. Broiltd Eds. — ^Take a large eel; skin and make it clean; then 
open the belly, and cut it into four pieces. Then take the tail end, strip 



70 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

— 

off the flesh, and beat it in a mortar; season with a little beaten mace, 
grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, chopped parsley, thyme, lemon-peel, 
and bread-crumbs ; roll it in a piece of butter ; then mix it again with 
the yolk of an egg ; roll it up, and fill the pieces of belly with it ; now 
cut the skin of the eel, wrap it round the pieces, and sew them up ; 
broil them well ; have butter and an anchovy for sauce, with the juice 
of a lemon. 

2. Stewed Rump-steak, — ^Take a layer of any vegetables, and place 
them in your stewpan ; then moisten with just enough liquor to keep 
them from catching; on these lay your steaks; keep the lid close 
down, and let them stew for several hours until quite tender, stirring 
occasionally. You may serve just as it comes from the stewpan. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding, — In a pint of new milk boil 3 oz. of ground 
rice, with half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon chopped 
fine ; keep it well stirred whilst boiling ; set the saucepan on the hob, 
and then beat up 4 eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar ; mix 
these with the rice milk ; butter a pie-dish, pour the ingredients into it, 
taking out the spice, and grate nutmeg over the top. Half an hour's 
baking will be enough. 



FEBRUARY la 
' Heaven deigns to suit our trials to our strength,^ — Hannah More. 



1. Oxtail Soup. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Light Pudding. 



1. Oxtail Soup. — Make a quantity of brown soup with shin of beef; 
take 2 or 3 tails and cut them in pieces at the joints; put them into 
the soup, and stew them till tender, but not till the meat leaves the 
bones. Add a little ketchup, and serve it with the pieces ot tail in 
the soup. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding. — ^Two lbs. of steak, with 6 kidneys, 2 dozen 
oysters, and 6 mushrooms. Cook for two hours or more. 

4, Light Pudding. — Six oz. of flour ; an equal weight of butter and 
loaf sugar ; the rind of 2 lemons chopped very fine : beat these up with 
4 eggs tor fifteen minutes. This should be made just before it is 
required. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY, 71 



FEBRUARY 16. 

' Tkegiary of true womanhcod consists in being herself, not in striving to be some- 
thing else. Her glory lies in her sphere, and God has given her a sphere distinct, * — Rev. 
F. W. Robertson. 



1. Savoury Haddock. 

2. Roast Sirloin of Beef. 

3. Potatoes. 



4. Broccoli. 

5. Cabinet Pudding. 



1. Savoury Haddock, — ^After cleaning the interior, dry it with a doth, 
and stuff the fish with the same force-meat you would use for a fillet of 
veal ; tie the tail to the mouth, and place the haddock in a deep pie- 
dish ; rub it over with flour, and half fill the dish with veal stock ; then 
let it bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 

2. Roast Sirloin of Buf, — Begin by hanging it at a distance from the 
fire, bringing it nearer by degrees, about a quarter of an hour to the 
pound. Baste continually, and dredge with flour. 

5. Cdbind Pudding, — ^Add \ lb. of grated bread to the same quantity 
of cat and stoned raisins ; boil a small quantity of lemon-peel, cinna- 
mon, and sugar in \ pint of milk ; strain it ofl*, and add 4 eggs well 
beaten up ; then pour in a glass of Madeira, and another of brandy. 
Butter a mould capable of holding i| pints \ put in the ingredients ; 
place a piece of writing-paper at the bottom of the mould, and steam 
it for an hour. 



FEBRUARY 17. 

' Wit so pointed^ it nier lost its etid. 
And so wdl'temperedf it nier lost a friend,' — Hannah More. 



1. Mutton Broth. 

2. Cold Sirloin of Beef. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. 



4. Brussels Sprouts. 

5. Pancakes. 



I. Mutton Broth, — The best parts of mutton for making broth are 
either the scrag end of the neck or the chump end of the loin, which 
should be put into a clean saucepan, with cold water in the proportion 
ot a quart of water to every pound of meat. Throw in a little salt, and 
skim it well as it comes to a boil ; then set it aside, that it may simmer 
very gently ; slice in i onion and 2 turnips ; let it stew for two hours ; 
and just before you take it up, chop up a few sprigs of parsley very fine, 
and put into the broth, first taking out the mutton. Toast some 



72 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



bread in thin slices, and cut it in small squares into a basin; pour 
the broth over it, and serve the meat in a dish ; the turnips may be 
strained dry and served plain, or mashed up with a litde butter, pepper, 
and salt 

5. Pancakes, — Beat 6 fresh eggs extremely well, and mix, when 
strained, with i pint of cream, 4 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, half a nut- 
meg grated, a glass of sherry, and as much flour as will make it almost 
as thick as the ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the 
fjying-pan tolerably hot ; wipe it very clean ; pour in the batter suffi- 
cient for thin pancake, and fry it for about five minutes. Pile the 
pancakes one above the other, with sifted sugar between each, and 
serve very hot, with cut lemon. 



FEBRUARY 18. ' 

' The girl whom benevolence warms 
Is an angel who lives btit to bless,* — Blooufield. 



T. Stewed Eels. 

2. Grilled Bones op Remains of 
Beef. 



3. Turkish Pillaw, with Meat. 

4. Potatoes. 

5. Custard Pudding. 



I. Stewed Eels.'^-CXtBXi them thoroughly, cut them in pieces of about 
three inches in length ; put them into a saucepan with barely sufficient 
water to cover them, a blade or two of mace, and a crust of bread; let 
them stew gently till the flesh will strip easily from the bone ; then put 
in a lump of butter rolled in flour, some parsley chopped fine, and a 
little pepper and salt; let it boil up once or twice, and serve them 
hot in a tureen with toasted sippets. 

3. Turkish Pillaw^ with Meat, — Wash a lb. of rice in tepid water, and 
three pints ot good broth, mutton or beef. When it begins to boil, 
put the least bit of saflron in a cup of the broth ; when well infused, 
pour it in your stewpan, and let all boil, closely covered. Then spread 
the cooked rice on the dish. On this lay a ragout of any meat or fowl 
or game that you may have. Cover over with plain boiled rice, and 
pour over the whole a table-spoonful of fresh butter oiled. 

5. Custard Pudding, — Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a 
large spoonful of flour, yolks of 5 eggs, some orange flour water (or 
vanilla), and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will exactly 
hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling 
water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the egg 
going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. Put currant jelly on it, 
and serve with sweet sauce. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 73 



FEBRUARY 19. 

' Whatever is engaging in manners should be the ftatural result of whatever is just 
in sentiment and correct in principle; softness should grow out of humility^ and 
external delicacy spring from purity ofheart,^ — HANNAH More. 



1. Kestoratiye Soup. 

2. Chicken Cu&ry. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Yeast Dumplings. 



1. Ratoraiive Broth or Soup. — One lb. neck of beef, i lb. neck of veal, 
I lb. neck of mutton, a small piece of melt, 3 pints of water, a bag of 
spice, long pepper and whole ditto, salt, a piece of lemon-peel, a stick 
of celery, 3 carrots, 3 onions, 3 small turnips. To be stirred gently six 
hours, then strained ; to which add the meat of a calf's foot, which has 
been boiled till quite tender in a saucepan by itself, in a pint of water* 
The jelly, when dear from fat, to be mixed whilst hot with the strained 
soup. If approved, a little sherry may be added. 

2. Chicken Curry. — Divide the chicken into small joints, brown 
them in a frying-pan with sliced chalots and butter. Then let them 
half cook, after which put them in a stewpan. Cover them with stock, 
and let them simmer until tender. Rub fine a tea-spoonful of curry 
powder, and a tea-spoonful of flour, i oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
cream, and add it to the stew. Arrange the chicken in the middle of 
your dish, and pour the gravy over it Serve with boiled rice in a 
separate dish. 

4* Yeast Dumplings, — To a dough of floxu: and water add a very 
moderate allowance of salt, and sufficient yeast to render the paste 
light ; as soon as this is well kneaded, set it before the fire in a deep 
dish, covered wiUi a light cloth. In half an hour it will be sufficiently 
raised. See that the water intended to be used is boiling ; divide the 
dough into small balls, flatten them on a trencher, put them into the 
water, which must be kept up to boiling heat, and five minutes will 
suffice for the cooking. Serve with melted butter poured over the 
dumplings. 




74 TFTINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



FEBRUARY 20. 

' Sure as night follows day. 
Death treads in pleasures footsteps round the world. 
When pleasure treads the paths which reason shuns J* — YoUNG. 



1. Fried Cod's Tail. 

2. Roast Turkey and Bread 

Sauce. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Broccoli Sprouts. 

5. Lemon Pudding. 



1. Fried CoiTs Tail, — ^Envelope in oiled paper, and put in the frying- 
pan with a sufficient quantity of lard. The process of heating requires 
as much time as would be occupied in boiling. 

2. Koast Turkey and Bread Sauce, — Hang for about a fortnight, in 
its feathers, in an airy pantry ; pluck, draw, and singe with exceeding 
care ; wash, and then dry it thoroughly with clean cloths, and pour water 
plentifully through the inside. Fill the breast with sausage meat, highly 
seasoned with minced herbs, lemon-rind, mace, and cayenne. Truss 
the bird firmly, lay it to a clear sound fire, baste it constantly and 
bountifully with butter, and serve it, when done, with good brown 
gravy and well-made bread sauce. An entire chain of delicately-firied 
sausages place round the dish. 

5. Lemon Pudding, — Nine eggs well beaten, f lb. of loaf sugar, the 
rind (grated) and juice of 3 large lemons, ^ lb. of butter to be melted. 
Mix them well together, put a puff paste at the bottom of the dish, and 
bake it 



FEBRUARY 21. 

* 755^ kindest and the happiest pair 
Will find occasion to forbear ; 
Afid something every day they live 
To pity^ and perhaps forgive. ' — CowPER. 



1. Soup. 

2. Mole, made of the Remains of 

the Turkey. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Baked Apple Pudding. 



I. Soup, — To ensure a good tureen of this delicious soup, two hares 
are positively required. With this proviso, it can be thus obtained : 
Choose the youngest and tenderest of the two for the bouilli ; a vene- 
rable tough old Jack makes a capital consommk (jelly-broth). Let the 
aforesaid John be properly paunched, and cut into pieces, the head 
split in half. Put these into a saucepan three-fourths full of water; add 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY, 75 



to the meat a Spanish onion chopped fine, a couple of anchovies, 4 
cloves, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonM of salt, and half that quantity of 
soluble cayenna Set the saucepan on a slow fire, and let it simmer 
for at least four hours. Meantime roast the other hare in the usual 
manner, until it is about half done ; then cut it into joints, and the meat 
of the thighs or haunches in large pieces ; put the head, spare bones, 
and stuffing of hare the second into the saucepan containing hare the 
first, and let all sinmier for another hour ; you may then strain off the 
liquor. When the soup is required, put in the roast meat, with a 
tumbler of port wine, and warm it on a quick fire for about ten 
minutes. 

2. Mole^ made of the Remains of the Turkey. — ^Take what's left of the 
turkey, and cut up in small pieces \ put it in the stewpan with just enough 
broth to cover it, seasoning it When tender, take it out and strain 
the gravy ; then take some tomato sauce and a couple of capsicums and 
pound in a mortar. Put gravy, tomato, and capsicum with the turkey 
into the stewpan again, with a clove of garlic split in two, and let all 
simmer together. At serving, sprinkle over a few coriander seeds. 

4. Baked Apple Pudding, — Peel and slice half a dozen apples, scald 
them, and steam off the water ; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the 
juice of a lemon, and its peel grated ; sweeten to your taste ; when cold, 
add the whites of 3 eggs, and the yolks of 5 ; put a thin crust in the 
dish, and bake in a slow oven. 



FEBRUARY 22. 

' Against diseases here the strongest fence^ 
Is the defensive virtue abstinence, ' — Rd. HSRRICK. 

1, Herrings. | 3. Mashbd Potatoes. 

2. Rabbit a la Jardiniere. | 4. College Pudding. 

1. Herrings, — Eat them as fresh as possible. With a sharp pen- 
knife make 3 or 4 incisions across the fish on each side ; cut an onion in 
thin slices ; place both on the gridiron, and turn them occasionally till 
done. Have melted butter ready, in which 2 table-spoonfuls of mush- 
room ketchup has been poured, and a little fresh mustard 

2. Rabbit d la Jardinltre, — Disjoint your rabbit, and put it in your 
stewpan, with onions, celery, and potatoes. Fill up your stewpan with 
both ; and if you have any good beef or mutton gravy, add it to the 
stew in preference to butter : let all sinmier together till the rabbit is 
tender. Fry some thin slices of bacon, and lay them round the dish. 



76 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. College Pudding. — Break 5 eggs into a basin, and whisk the yolks 
and whites well together; add, by degrees, 2 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of 
pounded white sugar, as much powdered ginger as will cover a shilling, 
an equal quantity of grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of cream or 
good milk. When you have mixed all these completely together, put 
in 6 oz. of well-washed currants, 4 of finely-chopped suet, an oz. of 
candied orange-peel cut very fine, and a wine-glass of brandy. Fill 
as many pattypans as your mixture will allow, and bake for twenty 
minutes. 



FEBRUARY 23. 

* Ld pleasure he eve*' so innocent^ the excess is always criminal,'' — W. DODD, LL.D. 



1. Baked Cod's Head. 

2. Ribs of Beef, Boned and 

Rolled up. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Brussels Sprouts. 

5. Yorkshire Pudding. 



1. Baked Cod's Head. — To eat cod's head in perfection, place it in 
an earthen shallow pan, and stick on, by means of small wooden 
skewers, \ a lb. of firesh butter made into little pats. The time required 
for cooking will depend upon the size of the fish, and also if to the 
head there should be appended shoulders. All the mucilaginous por- 
tions of the skull are rendered more palatable by this method of 
dressing. Serve the fish upon a proper dish, and have melted butter or 
oyster sauce as an accompaniment 

2. Ribs of Beef^ boned and rolled up. — Tied round with a string, 
and so roasted in a solid lump. 

5. Yorkshire Pudding. — Whisk up 4 eggs, then add 3 spoonfuls of 
salt ; mix gradually 8 table-spoonfuls of fine flour with a pint and a half 
of new milk j add the eggs, etc ; put a tin dish under your joint ; let it 
become quite hot, and well covered with the fat of the meat ; two hours 
before dinner, pour the batter into the tin, turn the pudding every half- 
hour, so as to have both sides well browned ; be careful to brush away 
immediately any coal or cinders that may fall out, or the appearance of 
the pudding will be destroyed. 




BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 77 



FEBRUARY 24. 



' CuUioate modesty^ meekness, prudence, piety with all its virtuous and charitable 
cccupaiicns, ail beautiful and useful accomplishments, suited to your rank and condition. 
These are the chief ornaments of your sex, and will render you truly lovely as women 
and as Christians.*— ViEV, jAMES Fo&DYCE, D.D. 



1. Fish Stew. 

2. Cold Rolled Beef, with 

HOESEKADISH SAUCE. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Macaroni Cheese. 



1. Fish Sew. — Make a strong jelly broth of skate ; then boil a pair 
of soles till nearly done, and cut off the fillets ; put the bones and fins 
to the skate, add the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a 
salt-spoonful of mixed soluble cayenne and powdered mace : let all 
simmer for half an hour over a slow fire, then strain off the liquor 
through a fine sieve, and warm up the fillets in it Serve with parsley 
and butter. 

2. Horseradish Sauce — for cold meats, very cheap and relishing. 
Pour a quart of the best vinegar on 3 oz. of scraped horseradish, i oz. 
of minced eschalot, and i drachm of cayenne. Let it stand a week. 
Horseradish is in perfection about November and December. 

4. Macaroni Cheese. — Six oz. of Cheshire or Parmesan cheese, \ lb. 
pipe macaroni, \ lb. butter, i pint of milk and 2 of water ; bread- 
crumbs, pepper and salt to taste. Put the milk and water into a sauce- 
pan, with salt to flavour itj and when it boils quickly, drop in the 
macaroni Keep the water boiling till it is quite tender; drain the 
macaroni, and put it in a deep dish. Have the grated cheese ready, 
sprinkle it amongst the macaroni and some of the butter cut into small 
pieces, reserving some cheese for the top layer (which cover with some 
very fine bread-crumbs). Season with a little pepper; warm, without 
oiling, the remainder of the butter, and pour it gently over the bread- 
crambs. Place the dish before a bright fire to brown the crumbs, turn 
it once or twice that it may be equally coloured, and serve very hot 

The riband macaroni does not require boiling so long a time. The 
top of the macaroni is browned quicker in a salamander than before 
the fire ; but never put it in the oven, as the butter would oil. The 
macaroni must be tender, but firm, no part beginning to melt It may 
be boiled in water, with a little salt instead of milk, but should then 
have a small piece of butter mixed with it 



78 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



FEBRUARY 28, 

* Reidve to perform what you ottgkt ; perform without faS what you resolve^ 

— Dr. Frankun. 

1. Soup Lorraine. | 3. Potatoes. 

2. Boiled Loin of Beep. | 4. Oxford Dumfungs. 

1. Soup Lorraine. — Beat up a lb. of blanched almonds in a mortar, 
with a small quantity of water ; add to this the yolks of 4 eggs boiled 
hard, and the white meat of a cold roast fowl. Pound these ingredients 
well together, seasoning with salt, mace, and nutmeg to your taste. 
Let the above be boiled over a slow fire in 3 quarts of strong veal 
broth, perfectly free from fat This soup is fit for table when it has 
attained the thickness of cream. 

2. Boiled Loin of Beef. — Remove the fillet for next day, then stew 
with the bones left in it, with a variety of vegetables, and seasoned with 
whole cloves and peppercorns. 

4. Oxford Dumplings. — ^Take 4 oz. of currants and shred suet, 2 oz. 
of grated bread, 2 large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon- 
peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with 
2 ^gs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fiy of a fine yellow 
brown. Serve with sweet sauce made with flour (but half the quantity) 
instead of bread. They are excellent 



FEBRUARY 26. 

' God takes women* s hearty desires and will instead of the deed, where they hdve not the 
power to fulfil it ; hut He never took the bare will instead of the deedJ* — Baxter. 



1. Collared Eels. 

2. Fillet of Beef. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Rice Dumplings. 



I. Collared Eels. — Pierce them with a three-pronged fork at back of 
the head ; then skin the fish, cut ofi* the heads and tails, take out the 
bones, and press the flesh quite flat with a wooden trencher. Put the 
bones, heads, and tails into a saucepan half filled with water ; add a tea- 
spoonful oi salt, enough soluble cayeime to fill a tea-spoon, half a dozen 
cloves, a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, and a bay-leaf : let this stew 
for an hour and a half. Meantime take a dozen sage leaves and reduce 
them to powder; mix these with half a grated nutmeg and a spoonful 
of salt ; rub the fish well over with this powder, both inside and out ; 



BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 



79 



cut them into lengths of about three inches ; place them close together, 
and tie them tightly up in a coarse open cloth, securing the top and 
bottom. When the stew has been on long enough, take out the bones 
and put in the fish ; let them simmer in the liquor till perfectly tender ; 
then take them out, boil up the liquor again, strain it through a sieve, 
and pour it quite hot over the eels, placed in a deep dish and divested 
of the cloth. 

2. FiHd of Beef Toakts a delicious steak, marinaded, and then either 
roasted or stewed. 

4. Rice Dumplings, — Soak the quantity of rice required in lukewarm 
water till it is quite white ; then parboil it, and drain off the water. 
Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large 
enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, 
cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the 
rice carefiilly placed round it ; as soon as this is done, tie the cloth 
tightly at the top^ boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter 
or wine sauce. 



FEBRUARY 27. 

*A woman should he very cautious of Beginning those expenses which, if once begun, 
wm continuo; but may be more liberal on such occasions as are not likely to return,^ — 

Bacon, 



1. Cod. 

2. Oyster Sauce. 

3. Roast Shoulder op Mutton. 



4. Broccoli and Potatoes. 

5. Bath Pudding. 



1. Cod, — ^To boil it well, have the water ready boiling, with i lb. of 
salt to every 6 quarts ; put in your fish, draw your fish-kettle to the 
comer of the fire, where let it simmer slowly fi-om twenty minutes to 
half an hour ; when done, the bone in the centre will draw out easily ; 
if boiled too much, it would eat tough and stringy. 

2. Oyster Sauce. — Rub 2^ table-spoonfuls ot flour into \ lb. of butter ; 
mdt these gently in a stewpan, and add | pint of stock to thicken, with 
half a spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon. The oysters should 
be bearded and stewed in their own liquor separately ; when the sauce 
is as thick as melted butter, add the fish, and stir them together. 

5. Bath Pudding. — ^Pare and chop half a dozen apples ; take 6 oz. 
of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed 
conants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a 
nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of 



So THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of brandy : mix all these well 
together ; boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted butter over the 
pudding just before serving. 



FEBRUARY 2a 

* 77uy who have the true taste of conversation^ enjoy themsdves in a communication of 
each other's excellences^ and not in a triumph over their imperfections.^ — ^Addison. 



1. Slit Lobster. 

2. Chops, with Cucumber Sauce. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Bread Pudding. 



1. Slit Lobster. — Procure the finest and fireshest of lobsters possible ; 
cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body ; take out all the 
meat, and save the shells; cut the meat into slices; then put a tea- 
spoonful of chopped shalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the 
size of 2 walnuts ; pass them a few minutes over the fire ; add a tea- 
spoonful of flour, well mixed with \ pint of milk, and stir over the fire, 
boiling about fi\^ minutes ; then add the lobster, which season with a 
little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies. Set it 
again on the fire, stirring until boiling ; then stir in the yolk of an egg ; 
take off the fire ; fill the shells of the lobster : sprinkle bread-crumbs 
over it, with a little butter ; put in the oven twenty minutes, and serve. 
To give it a nice colour, use the salamander. 

2. Chops^ with Cucumber Sauce. — For the cucumber sauce, cut up 
exactly as if for eating : put in a little butter at the bottom of the 
stewpan; when it is melted, stir in a little flour; then place your 
cucumber on it ; add just enough broth to cover it, and boil till the 
slices are quite tender, without falling to pieces. 

4. Bread Pudding, — Four oz. of bread, 2 oz. of suet, \ pint of milk, 
3 eggs well beaten, a little brandy, nutmeg, and sugar: 



FEBRUARY 29. 

*' When the mind loses its feeling for elegance^ it grows corrupt and grovdling^ and se^ 
in tlu crowd what ought to be found at home,'' — Landor. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Roast Leg of Pork. 

3. Apple Sauce. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Apple Dumpungs. 



I. Iried Soles. — ^Take off the upper and under skin, rub over with 
the white of egg and lay on the fish with a flat brush ; next strew the 



DESSERT FOR FEBR UAR V. 



8i 



soles with bread-crumbs^ reduced to a very fine powder, and be sure 
that the lard in the pan is boiling before you put them in. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. 

2. Rikist Leg of Pork, — Scald it first; the skin is tlien scored, not 
too deep ; protect it while roasting with oiled paper ; remove the joint 
towards the end of the cooking a little way from the fire, which will 
allow of the crackling to brown. 

3. Apple Sauce, — ^Peel, quarter, and core your apples ; cut them into 
small pieces ; put them into a stewpan, with a tumbler of cider ; peel 
half a lemon, and put in 3 or 4 cloves ; let boil till the apple is pulp ; 
take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of a lemon, mix up all thoroughly 
together. 

5. Apple Dumplings. — Select the large russet-coat fruit ; pare and cut 
them in halves ; take out the cores, and fill the cavities with quince 
marmalade, and a couple of cloves to each. Surround the apples with 
paste equally distributed ; tie up in cloths ; boil for fifty minutes, or an 
hour, if your dumplings are large. Have melted butter and powdered 
sugar ready to serve with them. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY. 

For the middle of the table a basket of mixed fruit : oranges, lemons, 
apples, eta 



1. Almond Cake. 

2. Confitures A LA VALENaENNE. 

3. COMPOTB DB RHUBARBE. 

4. COMFOTK DE MARROMS AU RhUM. 

Pears: Grapes. 

5. MASSEPAINS A LA DUCHESSE. 

6. Biscuits de Savoie. 

7. Bf ASSEPAINS A LA FrANCAISB. 

& Biscuits aux Marrons. 



Two Assiettes Montees Garnies 
DB Bonbons. 

Walnuts, Filberts, Candied 
Fruits, Batons Sucres, 
Citron Chips, Figs and 
Almonds, Gaufres, Marma- 
lade, Fruit Jellies, Rata- 
fias. 



I. almond cake. 



Take 10 oz. of sweet and i of bitter almonds; blanch them and 
pound them in a mortar, until they form a smooth paste, having 
added a dessert-spoonful of syrupj lemon-juice, white of egg, or sweet 
wine, to prevent the almonds from oiling. Then gradually add, first 
T2 eggs previously beaten to a froth, then i lb. ot loaf sugar powdered 

F 



82 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

and sifted, and afterwards dredge in slowly 12 oz. of very good dry 
flour. ^Vhen these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put in by degrees 
a lb. of butter first beaten to a cream. A tea-spoonful of grated lemon- 
rind may be also added if approved of Place the cake in a good- 
sized mould, and bake it for an hour and a half. 

3. CONFITURES A LA VALENCIENNE. 

Take any kind of fruit that has been previously preserved in brandy, 
dry it upon a doth, and dust it over with flour. Prepare an icing with 
the white of i ^g^ beaten with enough sifted loaf sugar to be sufficiently 
stiff; dip into this each cherry, apricot, or plum, according to which 
you employ, holding the fruit by the stem during the process. Lay 
them carefully in a warm place to set ; when firm, arrange them in a 
dish amongst sprigs of myrtle, cypress, or any other suitable foliage. 
Should the fruit be not well covered, it may be retouched with the 
icing. 

Fresh fruits may be treated in a similar manner, but of course they 
will not keep long. 

3. COMPOTE DE RHUBARBE. 

Take some very young rhubarb-stalks of a pretty pink colour, cut 
them into pieces of about 2 inches long. Prepare a syrup in the pro- 
portion of a tea-cupful of water and | of a lb. of loaf sugar to each lb. 
of rhubarb. Boil the syrup a quarter of an hour, then add yoiu: fruit, 
and do it very slowly for another quarter of an hour. Take up the 
rhubarb, arrange it in your compotier ; reduce the syrup to a proper 
consistency, let it cool, and pour it into the dish. Some thin slips of 
orange or lemon peel, or a few almonds blanched and slit, are a great 
improvement if stewed with this dish. A glazed or enamelled saucepan 
should be employed, or the colour of the rhubarb will not be preserved. 

4. COMPOTE DE MARRONS AU RHUM. 

Blanch and dry ^ of a hundred large Spanish chestnuts. Place 
them in a dessert-dish, strew over 6 oz. of pounded and sifted sugar. 
Add half a pint of rum, and immediately before sending to table put a 
light to it, and serve it flaming. 

5. MASSEPAINS A LA DVCHESSE. 

Blanch 12 oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar with a 
spoonful of Maraschino, pound them to a paste, add them to a strong 



DESSMRT FOR FEBR VARY. 83 

syrup made with half a lb. of loaf sugar ; place them by the side of a 
gentle fire, and stir them constantly until they will detach from the sides 
of the saucepan. Turn them upon a table thickly sprinkled with 
powdered sugar; work them wdl, and make them into small balls; 
flatten them until they are exceedingly thin, lay them upon a tin, and 
bake them for a short time in a SKxierate oven. 

6. BISCUITS DE SAVOIE. 

Take 12 very fresh eggs, break them into sepamte basins, and beat 
them welL Add to the yolks 20 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, whisk the 
whites to a froth, put them with the yolks, add the rasped rind of a 
lemon, and sift in 12 oz. of flour first dried in a slow oven. Rub some 
fresh butter upon the insides of small round tins, half All them with 
cake, glaze the tops with powdered sugar mixed with a very little flour, 
and bake them in a moderately heated oven until they are nicely 
browned. 

7. MASSEPAINS A LA FRANCAISE. 

Take i lb. of Jordan almonds, blanched, i lb. of double - refined 
loaf sugar, and 4 oz. of bitter almonds. Put the almonds together in 
a mortar, sprinkle them with a little eau-defleurs d'oranger, and pound 
them to a smooth pa.^te. Boil down your sugar with some water until 
it snaps, put in yoiu: almond-paste, withdraw it from the fire, and stir all 
well together. When it no longer adheres to the sides of the saucepan, 
empty it on a paste-board powdered with sugar; roll it out thin, and 
stamp it with a biscuit shape of any form you like. Bake them very 
slowly, and when done enough, glaze their tops, and return them to the 
oven to set. 

8. BISCUITS AUX MARRONS. 

Blanch and beat to a paste 6 oz. of Spanish chestnuts ; add to them 
the rasped rind of a lemon, i^ lbs. of powdered, white sugar, and the 
whites of ID e^s beaten and strained. Mix all thoroughly smooth, 
and upon paper shape it into biscuits of any form you please. Bake 
them in a very gentle oven. 




HAKCH I. 

• Te latK u lo be asefut to yatirittf : tocaustlavtii laietutfutloelhrrs'—'Q^^J^atX. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

MEAT: Beef— Mutton — Honse-Lamb — Pork — VeaisoD — Brawn— Veal (best from 

March 10 Jnly). 

Poultry : Turkeys — Capons — Pallets — Fowls — Tame PigEons — Kabbitt — Chickens 
— Ducklings. 

Gaue : Wild FowL 
[Poultry ii dearest from March to July, and cheapest about September, nhen the 
game season commences.] 

Fish : Btill— Carp— Cockles— Cod— Conger-Eels— Dabbs—Doiy— Eels— Flounderj 
— Ling — Lobsters — Mussels — Oysters — Perch— Pike — Plaice— Prawns — Sal- 
mon— Shiimps—Skatt— Smelts— Tench— Turbot— Whitings. 

Vegetables : Broccoli — Parsnips — RAdlshes — Rhubarb — Small Salad and (ihrongh 
the year) Sea Kale— Spinach (Spring). 

FRUITS YS SEASON. 

Apples — Golden and Dutch Pippins — Bon Chretiin Pears — Grapes — Medlars- Not* 
— Oranges and Walnuts — Dried Fruits — Crystallised Preserves, etc — French and 
Spanish Plums — Prunes — Figs— Dales. 

1. Macaroni Soup, I 3. Sauce. 

2. Havhch OF Venison AHD 4. Ouelette Soufflee. 

Mashid Potatoes. I 

I. Macaroni Soup. — Boil a lb. of the best macaroni in a quatt of 
good stock till quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another 
Stewpot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you 
can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve ; then add together the 
two liquors, a pint or so of cream, boiling hoL The macaroni that was 
lirst taken out, and \ lb. of grated Pannesan cheese, make it hot, but 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 



8S 



do not let it boiL Serve it with the crust of a French roll, cut into 
the size of a shilling. 

2. Haunch of Venison and MasJud Potatoes, — ^After the haunch has 
been well rubbed till quite dry with a coarse cloth, envelope it com- 
pletely in buttered white paper ; then lay a paste of flour and water, 
about half an inch in thickness, over the fat portion ; sectu-e this by 
other sheets of paper, and tie them on with flat narrow tape ; put the 
haunch into a cradle spit, and be sure that the fire is strong and bright \ 
begin to baste with clarified dripping immediately, or the paper will be 
destroyed. You may allow from ten to fifteen minutes to every lb., 
according to the size of the joint. Twenty minutes before it is com- 
pletely roasted, take off the papers and paste, and baste with fresh 
butter, using flour to froth it. It is usual to put a paper fiill round the 
knuckle. Serve with gravy-sauce, quite plain, and dissolved currant 
jelly. 

3. Sauce. — ^Take a sufficient quantity of the liquor in which the meat 
was boiled ; put in, to your taste, currant jelly, wine, pepper, and salt ; 
boO all up, and thicken with scorched flour mixed with a little water. 

4. Omelette Souffiie, — Break up half a dozen eggs, separate the whites 
from the yolks ; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon- 
peel and 4 of finely -powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten 
minutes, add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. of 
batter in a pan, and put in the eggs ; as soon as they are quite set, 
slant the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you 
mean to serve well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and 
brown the top with a salamander. 



MARCH 2. 

' Someiima sfeah to^ Cod, at other times hear Him speak to you. Let Him regulate 

your souI,^St. CypriaN. 



1. Oystzr Soup. 

2. Hashed Venison AND Currant 

Jelly. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Hannah More*s Pudding. 



1. Oyster Soup. — Get 4 lbs. of skate, boil it down over a slow fire, 
with abundance of water, till you have the quantity you require to fill 
a tureen. When you have made this jelly-broth, add salt, spice, etc to 
your taste, and twenty minutes before serving throw in 3 dozen oysters, 
with their liquor strained through a fine sieve. 

2. Hashed Venison and Currant Jelly. — Cook in its own gravy, which 
first strain and heat, thickened with a little butter and flour ; then put 



86 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

the venison in, cut in thin slices, and let them stew for about an hour, 
but do not allow to boil ; a very small quantity of port wine enriches 
the gravy. 

4. Hannah Moris Pudding, — Six oz. of apples chopped fine, 6 oz. of 
beef-suet chopped fine, 6 oz. of bread grated, 6 oz. of cunants, 6 oz. of 
raisins stoned and chopped, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, 3 oz. of 
candied peel chopped, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. 
These ingredients to be well mixed, and boiled in a well>buttered quart 
mould for three hours. This pudding should be mixed the day before 
it is cooked. 



MARCH 3. 

* Om of the best rules in conversation is, never to say a thing which any of the company 
can reasonably wish we had rather left unsaid,* — Swift. 



1. Cod Sounds. 

2. Oyster Sauce. 



3. Jugged Hare and Mashed 

Potatoes. 

4. Rice Pudding. 



1. Cod Sounds, — Let 2 cod-sounds be well soaked in salt and water, 
then wash them thoroughly, and boil them in milk and water for half an 
hour ; take them out, and let them cool ; dip in egg and bread-cnimbs, 
and fry a pale brown. Place a napkin on a hot dish, garnished with 
slices of lemon. Serve with oyster sauce, made as follows : — 

2. Oyster Sauce, — Simmer tfie oysters in their own liquor till they 
are plump ; strain off the liquor through a sieve ; wash the oysters clean, 
and beard them ; put them into a saucepan, and pour the liquor over 
them, taking care you do not pour in any of the sediment ; add a blade 
of mace, ^ of a lemon, a spoonful of anchovy liquor, and a bit of horse- 
radish ; boil it up gently, then take out the horseradish, the mace, and 
the lemon, the juice of which must be squeezed into the sauce. Now 
add some thick melted butter, toss it together, and boil it up. NB. 
Oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. This dish is 
considered a great delicacy. 

3. Jugged Hare and Mashed Potatoes, — Skin, draw, and wash the 
hare ; cut it into pieces, and put them into a jar with an onion, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and a little water. Cover the top of the jar close, so 
that very little of the steam can escape ; place the jar in a saucepan of 
water not sufficiently high to cover the top ; keep the water constantly 
boiling between three and four hours. When done, skim off the £it, 
thicken the sauce with flour and butter ; season with pepper and salt, 
and serve it all together in a hash-dish. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 87 

4. Rue Pudding. — ^Wash a sufficient quantity of rice, put a little 
water to it, and set it in the oven until the water is absorbed. Then 
put in a little milk, work it well with a spoon, set it in the oven again, 
and keep working it from time to time until it is sufficiently soft A 
little cream worked in at the last is an improvement Fill a tart-<lish 
nearly full of ^ruit, sweeten it, and lay on the rice unevenly by spoonfids. 
Bake it till the rice has a light-brown or fawn colour in the surface. 



MARCH 4. 

* Ilfoefor those who love me. 

For those who know me true; 
For the Heaven that smiles above mr. 

And awaits my spirit too. 
For the cause that lacks assistance. 
For the wroni^ that needs resistance. 
For the future in the distance. 

And the good that Jean <^<9/— BERNARD Barton. 

1. Scotch Broth. I 3. Plum-pudding. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beep. I 4. Almond Custard. 

I. Softch Broth. — Clean well, and chop in pieces a sheep's head, and 
boil it with a small carrot and a crust of bread in a gallon of water, till 
half is boiled away ; strain off the liquor, and put it back into a pot, 
with \ lb. of barley, 3 heads of celery washed dean and chopped 
small, an onion, a few sweet herbs, a little chopped parsley, and a few 
marigolds. Boil the whole for an hour. Take out the onion and herbs 
before sending it to table. 

3. Stewed Brisket of Beef. — Put the part with the hard fat into a 
itewpot, with a small quantity of water ; let it boil up, and skim it 
thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, and celeiy, and a few 
peppercorns. Stew till extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, 
and remove all the fat from the soup. Serve that and the meat in a 
tmreen, or the soup alone, and the meat in a dish garnished with some 
vegetables. 

3. Plum-fuddin^. — ^Take \ lb. of floxir, i lb. of stale bread-crumbs, 
I lb. of beef-suet, chopped fine ; i lb. of currants, well picked, washed, 
and dried ; i lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped ; } lb. of soft sugar, 
^ lb. of candied orange and lemon peel, i oz. of powdered cinnamon, 
\ oz. of ground ginger, a nutmeg grated, is bitter almonds blanched 
and grated, and a little salt: mix these well together; then beat up 



88 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



7 eggs, strain them through a sieve, and add a little sweet milk if 
required ; stir this well into the other ingredients ; mal^e it thick, but 
not too stiff. Just before you are going to boil it, stir into it a glass 
of rum or brandy ; scald a cloth, flour it and lay it in a basin ; pour 
in your pudding; then have ready another cloth, also scalded and 
floured, which lay over the top; tie it round tightly, and put it in 
boiling water, of which there should be abundance, as well as plenty 
of room ; keep it boiling for six or seven hours. When it is done, take 
it out of the pot, let it stand a few minutes to cool, or dip it into cold 
water; tlien turn it out into a dish, and serve it with caudle sauce. 
A plain pudding may be made by using less fruit and spices. 

4. Almond Custard, — Beat up in a mortar \ lb. of sweet almonds, 
previously blanched ; when these are rendered very fine, stir in 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of rose-water, the yolks of 4 eggs well whisked, and a pint of 
cream ; then sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste. Put this over 
a slow fire, and keep it constantly stirred till it has reached its proper 
thickness ; it will then be fit to be put into cups. 



MARCH 8. 

* She lives who lives to virtue; girls who cast 
TJuir ends for pleasure^ do not live, but last»^ — Herrick. 

1. Lobster as an Entree. 

2. Rolled Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 

3. Currant Dumplings. 

1. Lobster as an EnirU, — Chop the meat of a good-sized lobster fine, 
and add to it half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, the same quantity 
of soluble cayenne, and a spoonful of salt ; beat up 3 eggs, rub 2 oz. 
of butter into i oz. of bread-crumbs ; mix all well together, and boil 
in a well-buttered mould for an hour. Sprinkle the pea over it, and 
garnish with the small daws. 

2. Rolled Beef and Mashed Potatoes, — Take the inside of a sirloin; 
soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar, mixed, for forty- 
eight hours ; have ready a fine stuffing, and bind it up tight Roast it 
on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same 
quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding 
it improves the look and flavour. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish. 
Currant jelly and melted butter in tureens. 

3. Currant Dumplings, — Pick and wash a lb. of currants, dry them, 
and lay them on a plate before the fire. Chop a lb. of suet very small, 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCIL 89 

and put into it 8 spoonfuls of flour, with 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt and 3 
of ginger ; now add the currants, and mix all well together ; then beat 
up 4 eggs with a pint of milk ; add this by degrees to the other in- 
gredients, and make it into a light paste ; roll it up into balls as large 
as a turke/s t^^^ with a little flour ; flatten them a little, and put them 
into boiling water ; move them gently, that they may not stick together. 
Hall an horn: will boil them. 



MARCH 6. 
* If winter comes^ can spring he far behind V — ShelleY. 



1. Barley Broth. 

2. Bubble and Squeak. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Yeast Dumpungs. 



1. Barley Broth, — Put \ lb. of Scotch barley, and 2 or 3 onions sliced, 
into 5 quarts of water ; boil them gently for an hour, then pour it into 
a pan ; now melt a lump of dripping in the saucepan, and stir into it 
\ lb. of oatmeal, till you bring them into a paste ; then add the barley 
broth a little at a time, stirring it well together till it boils. Season it 
with a tea-spoonfiil of pounded celery, the same quantity of ground 
black pepper, and salt to your palate ; let it simmer gently for a quarter 
of an hour after you have added the seasoning, and it will be ready. 

2. Bubble and Squeak, — Boil, chop, and fry with a little butter, pepper, 
and salt, some cabbage, and lay it on slices of underdone beef, lightly 
fried. 

4. Yeast Dumplings, — Make a very light dough, as for bread — ^using, to 
mix it, milk instead of water; divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings. Plunge 
them into boiling watei:, and boil them for twenty minutes. Serve 
quickly, and eat them with 2 forks, tearing them apart They may 
be eaten with meat gravy or cold butter and sugar. 



MARCH 7. 

* Give thy thoughts no teniae {evil cnes\ 
Nor any unproportioned thought his acts,^ — Shakspeare. 



1. Baked Cod's Head. 

2. Harrico of Veal. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Tapioca Pudding. 



X. Baked Cod*s Head, — Butter your baking-dish ; clean the head 
well ; lay it in the dish ; put in an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle 



90 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

of sweet herbs, a small spoonful of black and white pepper, 3 or 4 
blades of mace, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, 
and a small piece of horseradish. Rub the head with butter, and strew 
bread-crumbs over it; then send it to the oven. When done, take it 
out of the dish, and lay it carefully in the one in which you intend to 
serve it Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it 
hot In the meantime, pour all the liquor out of the dish in which it 
was baked into a saucepan, set it on to boil three or four minutes, then 
strain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint 
of shrimps, and \ pint of oysters or muscles, with the liquor. After 
straining it, add a spoonful of mushroom-pickle, \ lb. of butter rolled 
in flour, and stir all together till it boils ; pour this into the dish, and 
have ready toasted bread, cut in three-comer pieces and fried crisp, of 
which stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round 
the dish. Garnish with lemon, scraped horseradish, and parsley crisped 
before the fire. Lay one slice of lemon on the head, and serve it 
up hot 

2. Harrico of Veai, — ^Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the 
bones out, but leave it whole ; put it into a stewpan ; just cover with 
brown gravy, and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of Harricot 
beans, 6 cucumbers sliced, and 2 lettuces cut into quarters — all stewed 
in a little good broth \ put them to the veal, and let them simmer for 
ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and 
vegetables over it 

4. Tapioca Pudding. — ^Take 6 table-spoonfuls of tapioca, and soak 
it in milk for some hours before you intend to use it ; when you are 
going to make your pudding, put the tapioca into a quart of milk, place 
it on the fire, and, as soon as it boils, sweeten it to yoiu: taste, and lei 
it simmer for a quarter of an hour ; be very careful that it does not bum 
to the pot Four into a basin, and stir into it a little fresh butter and 3 
eggs beaten ; butter your dish, pour it in, and bake it for an hour. If 
you wish it boiled, you must add another egg, and boil it for an hour 
and a half. 



MARCH 8. 
* Happiness consists in the multiplicity of agreeable consciousness,*^Jonvso79, 



1. Pork Soup. 

2. Veal and Ham Pie. 

3. Potatoes. 



4. Apple Dumplings. 

5. Cream for Glasses. 



I. Pork Soup, — Cut the fat off some 4 or half a dozen delicate pork 
chops, then separate the outward skin from the fat, and put it with the 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 91 

bones and meat into a stewpan ; add a little rice whole, a few sweet 
herbSy some pepper and salt ; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, 
skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. This prepara- 
tion should be, if properly made, perfectly transparent ; and if intended 
for an invalid, its delicacy entirely depends on the attention paid to its 
skimming. 

2. Veal and Ham Pie, — Cut 2 lbs. of veal cutlets into nice square 
pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of your dish. Have 
ready minced 2 table-spoonfuls of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded 
mace, a strip of lemon-peel finely minced, \ tea-spoonfiil of grated 
nutm^, pepper and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices ; sprinkle a portion of these over the veal, then put a layer of 
boiled ham, cut very thin. Proceed thus till the dish is full, always 
having the ham (about \ lb. in all) at the top. Lay a puff-paste on the 
edge of the dish, and poiu: in about half a pint of water. Cover with 
crust, ornamented with leaves ; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and 
bake it fi'om one hour to an hoiu: and a half in a well-heated oven. 
Should the pie be very large, bake longer time. (This pie will be much 
improved and enriched by adding a/ew mushrooms, oysters, or sweet- 
breads.) When the pie is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top 
tlirough a funnel nearly half a pint of strong gravy, which must be suffi- 
aendy good to cut in a firm jelly when cold. 

4. Apple Dumplings, — Make a good paste ; pare some large apples, 
cat them in quarters, take out the cores, and in place of them put in a 
dove and a piece of lemon-peel cut very thin ; take a piece of crust 
enongh for i apple, roll it round, put the quarters together, and roll the 
crust round it with a little flour in your hand. Have a pot of water 
boiling ; take a clean cloth, dip it into the water, shake flour over it, and 
tie each dumpling by itself; put them in, and keep the water boiling all 
the time : if the apples be not laige, half an hour will boil them. When 
they are done enough, take them up, lay them on a dish, throw fine 
sugar over them, and send them to table with fresh-melted butter in a 
boat, and fine-beaten sugar in a saucer. Some persons boil apple 
dumplings without tying them in a cloth, but they are apt to break and 
spoiL 

5. Cream for Glasses. — Dissolve \ of an oz. of isinglass, melt in a 
wine-glassful of brandy about half a dozen lumps of loaf sugar, whip 
some cream well; add the above, and just before putting into the 
glasses squeeze the juice of a lemon into your mixture. 



92 THINGS A LADY V/OULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

MARCH G. 

77ie ^eatest pleasure of life is /w^.'— Sir W. Temple, 



X. Boiled Salmon. 

2. bceup royale. 

3. Sea Kale and Potatoes. 



4. Boiled Rice PuDDiNa 

5. Creams. 



1. Boiled Salmon. — Clean out and scale the fish, and rinse it in 
water. Then put on a good roomy fish-kettle with plenty of water and 
a good handful of salt ; put in your fish, let it boil very gently, keeping 
it skimmed The time it will take depends greatly on the thickness of 
the fish. It is usual to reckon ten minutes to the pound. To ascertain 
if it be boiled enough, raise one end from the water; and if a knife pass 
easily betwixt the fish and the bone, it is sufficiently done. When it is 
ready, lift the drainer out of the water and set it across the ketde, that 
the water may drip from the fish. Serve it on a dish with a fish-plate ; 
lay a napkin under the fish. Garnish with green parsley and lobster or 
shrimp sauce. 

2. B(Euf RoyaU, — ^Take the bones out of a brisket of beef, and scoop 
holes in the meat about an inch asunder ; fill one with small rolls of fat 
bacon, a second with chopped parsley and sweet herbs seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and the third with oysters cut small, and powdered with 
a very little mace and nutmeg. When all the apertures are stuffed, tie 
up the meat in a roll, put it into a baking-pan, and pour over it, quite 
hot, a pint of sherry, in which half a dozen cloves have been boiled ; 
flour the meat well, and set it in a slow oven for three hours. Four off 
the gravy and set it by to cool, that you may skim away the fet ; if it is 
not already in a jelly, which it should be, add enough glaze to make 
it so. Serve the beef cold, and the jelly round it 

4. Boiled Rice Pudding, — Pick and wash your rice, put it into a clean 
saucepan with plenty of water, but without a cloth ; let it boil till the 
grains are swelled and sofl, which they will be in about twenty minutes 
after it boils ; then strain off the water, and set the saucepan on the 
hob, that the rice may be perfectly dry ; put it into a buttered mould or 
basin to set ; then turn it out, and pour sweet sauce over it 

5. Creams, — Dissolve an ounce of isinglass, beat up f of a lb. of loaf 
sugar in a pint of rich (or, as it is sometimes called in London, ' Double ') 
cream ; mix all together, throw in a glass of noyau and the juice of a 
lemon and a half; beat it up with a whisk, and put it into a mould. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 



93 



MARCH lO. 

* Take care to be an economist in prosperity ; there is no fear of your being one 

in adversity,^ — ZiMMERMANN. 



1. Winter Pea Soup. 

2. Veal Pie. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Custard Pudding. 



1. Winter Pea Soup, — Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have 
boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 
3 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs ; let it 
simmer slowly for three hours ; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add 
spice to your taste before warming up for use. 

2. Veal Pie. — Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; season them 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice z 
sweet-breads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste 
on the ledge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the 
sweet-breads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. I^y over 
the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill the dish with water ; 
cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through 
a funnel a few spoonfuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up ; 
but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, etc, if approved. 

4. Custard Pudding, — ^Beat up 6 eggs, add a quart of new milk, a 
little lemon-peel shred fine, 5 or 6 bitter almonds blanched and grated 
or crushed, with sugar to your taste ; mix all together, then have ready 
your dish covered with a good puff paste, into which pour the custard ; 
grate over it half a nutmeg, and bake it, or put it into a basin without 
paste ; tie a doth over it, and boil it If boiled, serve it with melted 
butter. 

MARCH 11. 



* Wrong none by doing injuries^ or omitting the benefits that are your duty,*-^ 

Dr. Franklin. 



1. Stewed Cod. 

2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 

3. Mashed Potatoes. 



4. Bread and Butter Pudding. 

5. Arrowroot Blancmange. 



X. Stewed Cod, — Cut it in slices an inch thick, lay them in a large 
stewpan; season with nutmeg beaten, pepper, and salt, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, an onion, \ a pint of wine, and ^ of a pint of water ; 
cover dose, and let it simmer softly for five or six minutes ; then squeeze 



94 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

in the juice of a lemon, put in a few oysters, and the liquor strained, 
with a blade or two of mace ; cover it dose, and let it stew softly, 
shaking the pan often. When it is done enough, take out the sweet 
herbs and onion, and dish it up ; pour the sauce over it, and garnish 
with lemon. 

2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets, — In winter, a small family may ensure a 
variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in half; hang the 
knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about } of an inch in thick- 
ness, sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section in the meat 
These slices are to be dressed in the pan ; 2 tea-cupfuls of water, and i 
of Harvey's, Readmg, Lopresti's, or any favourite sauce, with a small 
portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and 2 drops of garlic vinegar. 

4. Bread and Butter Pudding. — Cut some slices of thin bread and 
butter, and have ready some currants picked and washed. Butter a 
dish, and lay slices of the bread and butter on the bottom of it ; then 
strew some currants over them; then lay another row of bread and 
butter, then some more currants, until the dish be fulL Then beat up 
4 eggs, add a pint of new milk, a little ground cinnamon, nutmeg, grated 
lemon-peel, 4 or 5 bitter almonds blanched and crushed, and sugar to 
your taste, also a very little salt Mix all these together, and pour them 
over the bread and butter. Bake it half an hour. 

5. Arrowroot Blancmange. — ^Take a quart of sweet milk, put about 3 
parts of it into a saucepan, sweeten it with white sugar, and set it on the 
fire. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with the rest of the milk, using 
a little at a time, so as to have it completely smooth and well mixed. 
AVhen the milk in the saucepan boils, pour in the arrowroot, stirring it 
quickly, to prevent it being lumpy ; it will thicken immediately. Let it 
boil for two or three minutes. Wet a mould with cold milk and pour 
in the arrowroot, after stirring in 2 or 3 drops of oil of lemons. Let it 
stand till cold, then turn it out on a glass or china dish. 



MARCH 12. 

' Truefortiiudi of mind is hat discovered by a cheerful resignation to the mecuures of 

Providence. ' — FiTZOSBORNE. 



1. White Potato Soup. 

2. Savoury Omelet. 

3. Apple Fritters. 



4. Amber Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. White Potato Soup. — Cut a moderately- sized breast of mutton 
into small pieces, and put them into 3 quarts of water; make it boil. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH, 95 

skim it carelullyy and season the broth with salt and pepper to your 
taste ; peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes 
and 3 turnips ; slice up 4 onions, chop up 3 heads of celery, and throw 
these into ^e broth, with a liberal handful of sweet herbs. Let all stew 
for four hours and a half over a low fire ; strain off the liquor, take out 
the mutton, and force as much of the vegetable as possible through a 
sieve with a wooden spoon. Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in 
\ pint of cream, stir all well together, and warm it up for sending to 
table. 

2. Savoitry Omelet, — Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best 
ingredients for this excellent dish; whichever you select must be 
chopped very fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham ; add i 
shalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt Mix the yolks of 3 eggs, 
and 3 tea-spoonfuls of flour, in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites 
of ^gs separately ; see that the fiying-pan be quite hot, and the lard 
boiling, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together; as 
soon as you begin to fry, add the whites, and mix them well with the 
other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient 
Brown with a salamander before you send it to table. 

3. Apple Fritters. — Make batter as above, only thicker ; pare apples, 
cut them in quarters, and core them ; then take up a quarter ot apple, 
ivith some batter, and fry them on both sides, m hot fat, the same as 
pancakes. 

4. Amher Pudding. — (Make this when eggs are cheap.) Put i lb. of 
butter into a saucepan with f lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered ; melt 
the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of 15 eggs well 
beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add flavour and 
colour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste 
for turning out ; and when well filled with the above, lay a crust over, 
as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot 



MARCH IS. 

' To laoifcr the pure sake 0/ laving is almost the characteristic of an angd,^ — 

X.AMA&TINE. 

1. Fried Haddocks, I 3. Potatoes. 

2. White Fricassee OF Rabbits. | 4. Herefordshire Pudding. 

I. Fried Haddocks. — Take good -sized haddocks; wash and dean 
them well ; let them lie all night in salt When you are going to dress 
them, wash and wipe them dry ; cut off" the head, tail, and fins ; skin 



96 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

them carefully, so as not to tear the flesh, which is extremely tender ; 
cut the flesh from the bone, and divide each side in two pieces ; dredge 
them with flour, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot 
lard or dripping suflicient to cover them. Do not sufier the fat to 
scorch the fish. Brown both sides ; and when done, place them for a 
few minutes on a drainer before the fire. Garnish with parsley. Send 
up oyster sauce, or plain melted butter, in a boat. 

2. White Fricassee of Rabbits. — Be careful to take away all the interior 
of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut ofif the heads ; wash them 
repeatedly in cold water, till the flesh is perfectly white. Put them into 
a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up again, take out 
the rabbits, and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint of milk with flour 
and butter; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, salt, and white 
pepper ; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover carefully down, 
and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should be as thick as 
cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed. 

4. Herefordshire Pudding, — Peel and core 3 or 4 good dressing 
apples ; mince them fine ; and to every \ lb. of apple add the same 
quantity of bread-crumbs, and currants picked and washed, \ lb. of 
sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat up 4 eggs, and mix the whole 
together. It may be either boiled in a buttered basin, or mould, or 
baked in a dish with a paste round the rim. If boiled, it will take 
rather more than half an hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 



MARCH 14. 

' line such mirth as does not make friends ashamed to look upon one another next 

morning,^ — IzAAK Walton. 

1. Pea Soup. 

2. Pigeon Pie and Mashed Potatoes. 

3. Cabinet Pudding. 

1. Pea Soup. — ^Afler well washing i quart of split peas, soak them 
for the night, and boil them with a little carbonate of soda in just 
suflicient water to allow them to break to a mash. Then put them to 
3 or 4 quarts of beef broth, and stew for one hour ; then pass the whole 
through a sieve, and heat again. Season with salt and pepper. One 
or two small heads of celery, sliced and stewed in it, will be found a 
great improvement. 

2. Pigeon Pie and Mashed Potatoes, — Make a pufi'-paste crust ; cover 
the dish ; let the pigeons be very nicely picked and cleaned ; season 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 97 

tbem with pepper and salt, and put a good piece of fresh butter with 
pepper and sdt in their bellies; lay them in the dish ; the necks, gizzards, 
livers, pinions, and hearts place between, with the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg and a beafsteak in the middle ; put in as much water as will almost 
fill the dish ; lay on the top crust, and bake it well. It is a great im- 
provement to stuff the pigeons with forcemeat, very highly seasoned, 
and to lay forcemeat-balls round inside the dish. 

3. Cabinet Puddim^, — Over 6 spongecakes pour sufficient sherry to 
soak them thoroughly; meanwhile beat up 6 new-laid eggs with a quart 
of new milk, sweetening with pounded loaf sugar. Put your cakes into 
the custard without beating them together, and turn the whole into a 
mould or basin, previously well buttered ; tie a paper over the top, and 
steam the padding for an hour. For sauce, beat up the yolks of eggs 
and sherry ; heat them over the fire, not allowing them to boil, but keep 
whisking them all the time. Pour this over the pudding. 



MARCH IB. 

* A harder lesson to leame continence 
In joyous plecuure than in grievous paine.* — Spenser. 

1. Irish Pike. | 3. Potatoes. 

2. Rabbit Pie. I 4. Norfolk Dumplings. 

1. Irish Pike, — ^After the pike has been carefiilly cleaned, fill the 
belly with the same kind of stuffing you would prepare for roast veal, 
and this by two or three stitches may be prevented from flailing out If 
you attempt to roast it, the weight of the body is apt to separate it from 
the head, by which it is hung ; to prevent this, bake. 

2. Rabbit Pie, — ^Parboil and cut into joints a couple of rabbits. 
Chop up the livers very fine, and add to them ^ lb. of fat bacon 
boiled, enough soluble cayenne and powdered mace to cover a shilling, 
a spoonful of salt, the leaves of \ dozen sprigs of parsley, and a shalot 
finely chopped ; mix these well together, and lay them at the bottom of 
tile dish ; place the joints over the forcemeat, pour in 2 table-spoonfiils 
of bam extract, and fill up with veal stock ; cover with puff paste, and 
bake for an hour and a halfl This pie should be eaten hot 

4. Norfolk Dumplit^s. — ^Take ^ pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little salt; 
make it into a batter with flour. Have ready a clean saucepan of 
boiling water, into which drop the batter. Let the water boil fast, and 
two or three minutes will boil them enough ; then throw them into a 
sieve to drain the water from them, turn them into a dish, and stir a 
lamp of butter among them. Eat them hot 

Cm 



98 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MARCH 16. 

' If Misfortune conus^ she brings along 
T7u bravest viVite^v.'— Thomson. 



1. V£RMiCEi.Li Soup. 

2. Leg of Mutton and Currant 

Jelly Sauce. 



3. Potatoes and Broccoll 

4. Bakewell Pudding. 



I. Vermkdli Soup. — ^Break up the quantity of vennicelli required — 
i^ oz. or 2 oz. will be found quite enough for a laige tureen ; soak 
it in boiling water till perfectly white and free from dust. A quarter of 
an hour before dishing up your first course, add the vermicelli to the 
soup. Rich beef-gravy, in which vegetables have been stewed, and the 
liquor well strained, will be found most appropriate. 

4. Bakewdl Pudding, — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2 
with 6 oz. of powdered loaf sugar and \ lb. of clarified butter ; add \ 
pint of new milk or cream, and a little powdered bitter almond to flavour 
it When well mixed, place it over the fire, stirring it constantly till it 
thickens, but by no means suffer it to boil. Now line a dish with 
puff paste ; cover the bottom with jam or marmalade ; or, if these be 
not handy, with currants nicely picked and washed. Four the mixture 
over, and bake it in a slow oven. 



MARCH 17. 

' The effect of supreme and irrevocable misfortune is to elevate those souls wAicA it does 

not deprive of all virtue.* — GuizoT. 



1. Broiled Salmon. 

2. Hashed Mutton. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Rich Baked Apple Puddings. 



1. Broiled Salmon, — Cut the quantity required from the fish in slices 
of an inch and a half thick ; wipe them perfectly dry with a cloth, and 
sprinkle a very small quantity of salt over the slices ; rub dean writmg 
paper over with Florence oil, and fold up each slice of salmon separately ; 
see that your fire be clear, the gridiron quite hot, and its bars some six 
inches from the fire ; turn the fish every five minutes, and twenty will 
be sufficient for the dressing. Take off the paper envelopes before 
sending to table; serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce, Indian soy, 
soluble cayenne, and a fresh lemon. 

2. Hashed Mutton, — Cut it in thin slices, fat and lean ; flour them ; 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 99 

have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 3 spoonfiils of water ; add to 
it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. 
Serve in a covered dish. 

4. Rich Baked Apple Pudding. — Pare 12 large apples; take out the 
cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water ; 
boil tiiem till they are soft and thick ; beat them weU, and stir in i lb. 
of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and 
beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of 8 
^gs beaten up; mix all together, put it in a puff paste to bake it : 
when it is neady done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. 



MARCH 18. 

' Where there is much light, the shade is deepest.^ — Goethe. 



1. BfACARONi Soup. 

2. Wild Fowl. 



3. Sea Kale. 

4. Lemon Pudding. 



1. Macaroni Soup. — Into a pan of fast-boiling water throw 4 oz. of 
macaroni, add i oz. of butter, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. 
When the macaroni has swelled to its full size and become tender, 
drain it, and put it into 2 quarts of clear gravy-soup ; let it simmer for 
seven or eight minutes, and it will be ready for the table. Serve grated 
Parmesan cheese with it 

2. Wild Fowl, — ^The flavour is best preserved without stuffing; put 
pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much 
less dressing than tame. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the 
dish ; a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improve- 
ment to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which some wild fowl 
have, baste in the first instance with hot water, with an onion and salt 
for about ten minutes ; then take it away, and finish with butter basting. 

4. Lemon Pudding, — Take the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, with \ 
lb. of sugar ; take \ lb. of butter melted in as little water as possible ; 
be careful not to oil it ; keep stirring it till cold ; then mix all together 
with the juice of 2 lemons, and the peel grated in. Cover your dish 
with a thin puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it for half an 
hour. 



^<r^^^^^iy 



loo THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MARCH 19 
' Be vtistly worldly^ hut not voridly wise.* — QuA&LES. 

I 



T. Flounders. i 3. Potatoes. 

2. Savoury Lamb and Veal Pie. I 4. Millet PuDDiNa 



1. Flounders, — ^Let the fish be carefully cleaned, the fins cut off, 
then washed, and well dried in a cloth : put a handful of salt into the 
water in which they are boiled ; the time they take must be regulated 
by their size and thickness. Serve them with parsley and butter. 

2. Savoury Lamb and Veal PU, — Make a good puff paste crust, with 
which cover the sides of the dish. Cut the meat in pieces ; season it 
with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg finely beaten ; lay it in the 
crust with a few sweetbreads and lambstones seasoned as the meat 
is ; also oysters and forcemeat-balls, hard yolks of eggs, and tops of 
asparagus boiled green, and cut two inches in length ; put butter over 
all the pie ; put on the cover, and bake it for an hour and a half in a 
quick oven. Have gravy ready, made thus : Take a pint of gravy, the 
oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg ; mix all 
together, with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, and keep stirring it one way all 
the time. When it boils, pour it into your pie and put on the lid again. 
Send it hot to table. 

4. Milid Pudding, — Pick and wash dean \ lb. of millet seed ; put to 
it \ lb. of sugar, a whole nutmeg grated, and 3 quarts of milk. When 
you have mixed all well together, break \ lb. of butter into the dish, 
pour in the pudding, and bake it 



MARCH 20. 

* Frugality may he termed the dauj^hter of prudence, the sister of temperance^ and tht 

parent ofIiherty/^OKKSOV» 



1. Lobster Soup. 

2. Breast of Mutton. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Snowballs. 



1. Lobster Soup. — Make a jelly-broth for oyster soup ; add to this 
the interior, coral, and pea of the lobster ; cut the meat off the daws 
and tail into small bits about the size of dice ; strain the liquor, put in 
the meat, and serve quite hot Two lobsters are necessary for an 
ordinary-sized tureen. 

2. Briost of Mutton. — Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast the meat 
with stewed cucumbers. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. loi 

4. Snowballs, — Swell rice in milk ; strain it and lay it round some 
apples, previously pared and cored ; put a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, 
and a clove in each ; then tie them in a cloth, and boil them well : they 
axe eaten with melted butter and sugar. 

, — ^— 

MARCH 21. i 
* Do good 6y stealth, and blush to find it fame,^ — Pope. 



1. Eel Pie. 

2. Remains OF Breast OF Mutton. 



3. Spinach. 

4. Batter Pudding. 



1. Eel FU, — Four eels, of ^ lb. weight each, are enough for a good- 
sized pie. Let these be skinned and the fins cut away, and then washed 
in lair water ; divide the fish into lengths of about 2 inches ; rub these 
over with equal parts of soluble cayenne pepper and salt When you 
have placed the eels in a pie-dish, pour in as much veal stock as will 
fill it to the brim. Cover with a light paste, and bake for an hour. 
Before sending it to table, make a small aperture in the top crust, and 
poor in a tea-cupfiil of veal stock, in which a glass of sherry and the 
juice of a lemon have been mixed. 

2. Remains of Breast of Mutton. — Grill it before the fire; cover it 
with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce. 

4. Batter Fudding, — Beat up 6 eggs, take a quart of milk, 6 spoonfuls 
of flour, 8 bitter almonds blanched and grated, a tea-spoonfiil of salt^ 
and I of ground ginger; mix all together, butter your basin, and pour 
it in ; tie a cloth over it, and boil it an hour and a quarter. When it is 
done, turn it into a dish, and pour melted butter and sugar over it 



MARCH 22. 

* White entertainment is made the vehicle of instruction , nothing surely can be more 
harmless, agreeable, or useful,* — Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Scotch Barley Broth. 

2. Bei^f a LA Mode. 



3. Small Salad. 

4. Apple Pie. 



I. Scotch Barley Broth, — Procure a shin of beef of about 8 lbs. weight, 
and have it divided into four pieces — your butcher will do this for .you ; 
take \ lb. of Scotch barley, and wash it free from husk or dust in luke- 
warm water; select a large saucepan, put in your beef and barley, and 



102 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

cover them with cold water ; as soon as the water boils take away the 
scum, and then add a couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 
onions, all chopped up. You may now season the liquor with salt to 
your taste. Let it stew over a slow fire for three hours ; take out the 
meat, place it on a dish, and then pour the broth into an earthen 
vessel, where it should remain all night, to enable you to take away the 
fat Next day, warm up the meat and soup, and serve it to table, 
either with or without the bouilli and vegetables, as your fancy dictates. 

2. Bafi^ la Mode, — Procure about 10 lbs. of buttock of bee^ and cut 
it into bits of about \ lb. each. Chop a couple of large onions very 
fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with ^ lb. of fresh butter, or 
fresh and well-clarified beef-dripping : whilst this is warming, cover the 
pieces of beef with flour ; put them into the pan, and stir them for ten 
minutes, adding a little more flour by slow degrees, and taking great 
care the meat does not bum. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of 
boiling water ; then add a couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of 
black pepper, and a couple of bay leaves. Let all this stew on a slow 
fire, and very gently, for three hours and a quarter ; ascertain with a 
fork if the meat be tender : if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep 
dish. A well-dressed salad is the proper accompaniment oiBcsufcL la 
Mode. 

4. Apple Pie, — Make a puflF paste crust ; lay some round the sides 
of the dish ; pare and quarter the apples, and take out the cores ; lay a 
row of apples thick at the bottom of the dish, with half the sugar you 
intend for the pie, a little minced lemon-peel, a little of the juice, and 
2 or 3 cloves or a little cinnamon ; then the rest of the apples and 
sugar ; squeeze in a little more lemon-juice, and have ready the peels 
and cores of the apples boiled with some sugar in very little water, and 
strained ; pour the liquor into the pie, ^d put on the upper crust It 
should be baked very pale. Put no cup in the dish when you make 
apple pie. The flavour of a quince will greatly improve it 



MARCH 23. 

* Let all your things have their places; la each part of your business have 

its time.' — Dr. Franklin. 

1. Roast Lobster. i 3. Broccoli. 

2. House Lamb Steaks. | 4. Batter Pudding. 

I. Roast Lobster, — Boil your lobster imtil half done ; take it out of 
the water, and as soon as it has drained, and the shell is dry, rub it all 



BILL OP FARE FOR MARCH. 103 



over with sweet iresh butter. Set it in an American oven before 
the fire, and continue basting with butter until enough. For sauce, 
take the butter left in the pan, and mix with it a litde mustard and 
vinegar. 

2. House Lamb Steaks. — Season them with salt and pepper, nutmeg 
grated, lemon-peel, and chopped parsley ; dip them first into whipped 
eggs, firy them quickly. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour 
and butter ; add to it a spoonfiil of port wine and some oysters ; boil it 
op, and then put in the steaks warm ; let them heat up, and serve. 

4. Batter Pudding. — Use a quart of milk ; mix 6 spoonfiils of flout 
with a little of the milk first ; add the rest by degrees, with a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, 2 of beaten ginger, and 2 of the tincture of saflron ; mix all 
together quite smootli, and boil it for an hour either in a buttered cloth 

or basin. 

— ^— 

MARCH 24. 

*Be nd content to captivate only^ when you may bring into action powers of which 
the effects may be commensurate with eternity.^ — HANNAH More. 

1. Potato Soup. I 3. Mashed Potatoes. 

2. Neck of Lamb. I 4. Bread Pudding. 

J. Potato Soup. — ^Take a few uncooked bones, or bones of cold meat, 
or, if you have none of these, a piece of dripping, and put it into a pot 
of cold water, according to the quantity you wish to make ; after boiling 
a short time, peel a quantity of potatoes, and put them in with 2 or 
3 onions cut in thin slices ; add pepper and salt, and let it boil for half 
anhoiu*. 

2. Neck of Lamb. — ^Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into 
steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost 
round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning; fry them 
of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, 
and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the 
edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the 
potatoes. 

4. Bread Pudding, — Crumble down stale bread in a dish ; boil suffi- 
cient milk, which pour on to the bread. Cover it up for a quarter of 
an hour, that the bread may swell ; then beat it up to a fine pulp, stirring 
in a lamp of butter. Now beat up 3 or 4 eggs, ground cinnamon, 
ginger, grated lemon-peel, and sugar to taste ; ^ lb. of raisins stoned 
and chopped ; ^ lb. of currants picked and washed, with a litde salt 
Mix this among the bread ; make it of the consistence of thick batter. 
Butter the dish, pour it in, and bake it for half an hour. 



I04 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MARCH 28. 

* That w/ikk is U be U&ed long is to he laoei witA rmson raliir tJkau 

Dk. Johnsox. 

1. Boiled Hekkikcs. i 3. Mashed Potatoes. 

2. Broiled Fowls. | 4. Sponge Pudding. 

1. Boiled Herrings, — Hernngs that have been well powdered with 
salt for three days, and then plain boiled, will be found extremely 
delicate, served with parsley and butter. 

2. Broiled Fowls. — ^Split them down the back ; pepper, salt^ and broil ; 
serve with mushroom sauce. 

4. Sponge Pudding. — Beat up 2 eggs with their weight in flour, in 
good fresh butter and in pounded sugar; add 2 drops of essence of 
lemon ; when well mixed, pour it into 4 tea-cups, previously well buttered, 
and bake in a moderately quick oven. To be served with wine sauce 
in a boat, not poured over the puddings. 



MARCH 26. 

*Iiii the prerogative and ^lory of womanhood to eonsecrate tJke meanest things by a 
ministry which is not for sel/.'—REV. F. W. Robk&tson. 



1. Beef Soup. 

2. GiBLET Pie, 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Boiled Apple Dumplings. 



1. Beef Soup. — Chop up ^ lb. of gravy beef quite free from fat, and 
put it into i'^ pints of water, coid; let it simmer over a slow fire for half 
an hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your taste, put in 4 
cloves, and keep it over the fire for another half-hour; strain through a 
muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. 

2. Gidlet Fie. — ^Two sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderately- 
sized pie : let these be properly cleaned and half stewed ; cut the liver 
into three pieces, the gizzard into four, and divide the neck into joints ; 
separate the feet from the legs ; strain off the liquor, and put both that 
and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate allowance of 
pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same by a piece of rump- 
steak the size of the bottom of your pie dish ; arrange the gizzards, etc, 
over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupful of veal stock, cover with pufr 
paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half The liquor 
from the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 105 

fat ; thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, and add the juice of a lemon ; boil this up, and, when the pie 
is sufliciently baked, strain it tlirough a fine sieve, make a hole in the 
crust, pour in the liquor, replace the paste you have removed, smear the 
top with the yolk of an egg, and set the pie before the fire for a few 
minutes. 

4. Boiled Apple Dumplings. — Make a good paste, roll it out half an 
inch thick, but quite thin round the edge ; pare and core apples suffi- 
cient to fill the crust ; close it up, tie it up tight in a cloth, and boil it 
from two to three hours according to the size. When it is done, turn it 
into a dish, cut a piece of crust out of the top, put in a good lump of 
butter, and as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste, a little grated 
lemon-peel, and i drop of oil of cinnamon ; stir it well in the pudding, 
lay on the crus^ and send it to table hot 



MARCH 27. 

■ Tki Mtaximp " Reverence thysdf" seems to me peculiarly proper fir a woman.*- 

Rev. James Fordycb, D.D. 



1. Neck op Mutton Soup, 

2. Boiled Leg op Pore. 



3. Parsnips. 

4. Currant Pudding. 



1. NeA of Mutton Soup. — Put a cupfiil of pearl barley into a pot 
with 3 quarts of cold water, and let it boil ; then put in 2 lbs. of neck 
of mntton; boil it gently for an hour, taking care to skim it occasionally, 
and watch it to prevent it boiling over. Then put in i grated carrot, 
and 2 turnips cut in small squares ; an onion or two, sliced thin, or a 
leek, and 2 or 3 pieces of carrot and turnip, uncut Boil the whole for 
an hour longer after the vegetables are put in, adding, if required, a 
little hot water to make up for loss in boiling. Season with salt only, 
and serve the broth in a tureen or deep dish. The meat is served in a 
separate dish, garnished with the uncut turnip and carrot * Thus the 
broth, meat, and vegetables, being all used, food for a large number is 
produced at a very small expense. 

2. Boiled L^ of Fork. — Let it lie half an hour in cold water to make 
it white ; aUow a quarter of an hour to each lb., and half an hour over, 
from the time it boils up. Skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently 
after. It should be small and of a fine grain. 

4. Currant Pudding. — Make a good paste and roll it out very thin \ 
have ready some currants well picked and washed, which strew pretty 
thickly all over the paste; roll it up, scald and flour your cloth, and 



io6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

roll the pudding in it ; after which tie the doth tightly at each end, put 
it into boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half or two hours. 
Jelly, jam, or mincemeat is very good, spread over the pastes instead of 
currants. 



MARCH 2a 

* She whOf fond of dress, of painty andplace^ 
Aims but to be a goddess in the face. 
Sinks, as her beauty fades and passion cools. 
The scorn if coxcombs, and the Jest of fools.* — Cawthorn. 



I. Whiting. 

2. FSJCANDEAU OF BeEF. 



3. Spinach. 

4. Quaker Pudding. 



1. Whiting. — Slit them down from head to tail, rub them inside and 
out well with flour, and fry them in a pan full of boiling lard. 

2. Fricandeau of Berf, — ^Take a piece of lean beef, lard it with bacon, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves. Put it into a stewpan with a 
pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, a shalot or two, 
pepper and salt When the meat is become tender, cover it close. 
Skim the sauce well, and strain it Set it on the fire, and let it boil till 
it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the 
meat on sorrel saiice. 

4. Quaker Pudding, — Mix with a pint of cream 6 yolks and half the 
whites, beaten well ; grate in a little nutmeg, add a little salt and a little 
rose-water ; grate in also half the crumb of a penny roU, first mixed with 
a little of the cream. Butter a doth well, and flour it ; then put in the 
mixture ; tie it not too close, and boil it for half an hour. Mind the 
water boils when you put it in. 



MARCH 29. 

* Eccentricity in women is totally out of character. Neither genius, wit, generosity, 
nor even honesty, can make up for it; so peculiarly does the real power of a woman 
depend upon her power of pleasing, and so exclusivdy does that depend upon softness,* — 
Ward. 



1. Vegetable Soup. 

2. Rolled Beef. 



3. Broccou. 

4. Suet Pudding. 



I. Vegetable Soup, — ^Take the liquor in which any meat has been 
boiled ; cut into it 2 onions, 2 turnips, a large carrot, a head of celery, 



BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH, 107 

and a little paisley; add also a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil all together 
for a couple of hours ; then take out the sweet herbs, and rub the vege- 
tables through a sieve ; have ready some chopped parsley, and boil all 
up agaiiL Season with pepper and salt 

2. Rolled Beef, — ^Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the 
bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, 
and roast it Done with spices, and baked, is excellent 

4. Suet Ihidding. — Chop ^ lb. of suet very fine, and mix it with ^ lb. 
of flour, a few bread-cnmibs, and a little salt; when well mixed together, 
make it into a paste with a little water, not too stiff; dip your cloth into 
hot water, flom: it, and tie up the pudding tight ; put it into a saucepan 
of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a hal£ This is made 
richer by adding a couple of eggs, and using milk instead of water. 



MARCH SO. 
* NMing maiet a woman more esteemed by the oppotite sex than chastity,* — Addison. 



1. Fried Eels. 

2. A French Pie. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Baked Rice Pudding. 



1. Fried Eels. — Cut in small pieces, and fiied, being first dipped into 
^g and crumbs of bread. 

2. A French Pie, — ^Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, 
and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, with force- 
meat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and a few truffles. 

4. Baked Rice Pudding, — Boil ^ lb. of rice in a quart of new milk, 
and stir it that it may not bum ; when it begins to thicken take it off, 
let it stand till cool, then stir in a lump of butter, sugar to your palate, 
and some grated nutmeg; butter the dish, pour it in, and bake it 
Raisins^ cnnants, or sliced apples may be stirred in if liked 



MARCH 81. 

^JtioalsJup in shew is the ruling passion of the times ; and how much ie it nourished 

by dissipation V — Rsv. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Beef Soup. 

2. Sirloin OF Befp and 

Horseradish. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Yorkshire Pudding. 



I. Beef Soup, — ^Take a lb. of lean beef, cut it small, and put i^ with 
quart of cold water, into a saucepan ; add a little salt and 2 or 3 



io8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

allspice. Put it on a slow fire, and skim it carefully as it comes to a 
boiL Let it simmer gently for an hour, then strain it through a hair 
sieve. 

2. Sirloin of Beef and Horseradish.^^Wv^ the joint with a clean 
cloth ; place the screen before the fire half an hour before putting down 
the beef; hang the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour, 
near; baste, then withdraw to a distance, and let it roast slowly till done ; 
baste firequently, and dredge with baked flour; add a tea-cup of boiling 
water and half a tea-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped firom the beef, 
pouring the dripping off first ; it takes about a quarter of an hour to 
the lb. When the Yorkshire pudding is had the same day, put it under 
the beef while roasting for the last half-hour. 

4. Yorkshire Pudding. — Mix up a quart of milk, 4 eggs, and a little 
salt, into a thick batter with flour, as for pancakes. Have a good piece 
of meat roasting at the fire ; put a lump of dripping into a stewpan, 
and set it on the fire; when the fat boils, pour in the pudding; let it 
bake till neady done, then take away the dripping-pan, and set the 
stewpan under the meat, that the gravy and dripping may drop on the 
pudding, and the heat of the fire may reach it and make it brown. 
When the meat is done, drain the fat from the pudding, slide it as dzy 
as possible into a dish, and serve it up with the meat 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH. 



Centre of the table — ^a stand of flowers or other embellishments. 



1. Imperial Rice Cake. 
A Whipped Cream. 

2. Compote de Pommes a la Nor- 

MANDE. 

3. Pears ; Apples. . 

4. Queen Cakes. 

5. Macarons aux Fleurs 

d'Oranger. 

6. Amandes Pralinees.] 



7. Gaufres, Brazil and Barcb« 
LONA Nuts, Marrons Glaces, 
Dried Fruits, Moulded Ices, 
Dragees, Preserved Prunello, 
Fruit Jellies, Pastilles, 
Raisins, Burnt Almonds, 
Fromage Glace, Petits 
Baisers, Batons Sucres, Con- 
fitures a la Valenciennb. 



I. IMPERIAL RICE CARE. 



Put 2 oz. of whole rice to swell over the fire with half a pint of new 
milk 3 directly it comes to a boil, retire it to the hob, and let it staiid to 
absorb the milk. This done, pour it into a dish, and stir it occasionally 



DESSERT FOR MARCH. 109 

until it is cold. Beat to a paste ^ lb. of blanched sweet almonds mixed 
widi a spoonful of laurel water. Whisk the yolks of 8 and the whites 
of 4 eggSy add to them 2 oz. of butter worked to a cream, the rasped 
rind of a lemon, and 8 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Put in the almond 
paste, and then the rice, being careful that it is nicely granulated. 
Mix all well together, put it quickly into a hoop or mould, buttered 
and dusted with sugar; bake it for three-quarters of an hour in a 
moderate oven« 

2. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA NORBfANDE. 

Take 7 small-sized Normandy pippins, and set them to sinmier in 
half water and half white wine, with a small pinch of saffiron. When 
they are becoming transparent, put enough sugar to sweeten them, allow 
them to boil five minutes, then take them up, arrange them in a com- 
potxer. Simmer the syrup until it becomes a clear jelly, being par- 
ticular to skim it, and then strain it over your fruit Cider may be 
used instead of wine and water, and a few cloves are sometimes added. 

3. FRENCH MARMALADE OF ORANGE OR LEMON. 

Take the entire rinds of 12 oranges or lemons, put it into plenty of 
fresh water, and boil it gently until it is quite tender ; then take it up 
and throw it into a pan of cold water ; let it remain for eight or ten 
hours. Drain it, mash it smoothly, pass it through a sieve, weigh it, 
and to each pound of pulp allow a pound of highly-refined loaf sugar. 
Put it into a preserving-pan, and stir it well over a very moderate fire 
until it is a tolerably thick paste. Put it away in small pots for use. 
The juice and pulp are not used. 

4. QUEEN CARES. 

Work a pound of butter to a cream, put to it a lb. of beaten and 
sifted sugar, add the whites of 8 eggs whisked for twenty minutes ; beat 
the yolks for nearly an hour. Mix all thoroughly together, add a lb. of 
dried flour, ^ lb. of well-washed currants, and sufficient nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Put portions of this mixture into heart-shaped tins, sift 
sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. 

5. MACARONS AUX FLEURS D'ORANGER. 

Take 2 oz. of candied orange blossoms, mix them with a lb. and a half 
of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and the beaten whites of 8 eggs ; whisk 



no THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

it until it is veiy finD, put small portions of it upon wafer papexs, and 
bake it for a quarter of an hooi in a moderate oven. In the propei 
season fresh fioweis can be emfdojrecl, but these would require the 
addition of half a lb. more sugar. 

6. COMFITDRE DE CTTROHS OR ORANGES. 

Cut out a piece from the stalk end of your fruit, and with a salt-^pooa 
scoop out the pulp. Throw the rinds into cold water, and let them 
remain for two days. Then tie each in a piece of muslin, and boil 
them slowly in plenty of water until they are quite sofL Boil down 
double the original weight of the fruit in loaf sugar with some water and 
the juice of the fruit strained from the pulp. Drain the rinds, and put 
them into the symp ; boil gently for half an hour. Should they not be 
dear, boO them again the next day, and repeat the boihng if you find it 
necessary. Throw the syrup over them to keep. Quarters of these 
rinds may be served in a dish of fruit jelly, or arranged with alternate 
slices of jelly in a glass compoder. Devices may be carved upon the 
rinds before boiling them, or they may be fashioned to represent small 
baskets ; and when they are preserve(^ may be filled with some of their 
own syrup, or with a fruit jelly or ice of any kind. 

7. AUANDES PRALINEEa 

Take equal quantities of blanched almonds and sugar finely powdered ; 
add to the latter a quarter of its measure of water and some colouring^ 
either spinach juice, infusion of sa&on, cochineal, or carmine, according 
to the colour you wish your pralines to assume ; boil all together, and 

keep stirring it about until the fruit is well encrusted with sugar. Four 
it out upon greased paper, and separate those almonds that adhere 
together. Filberts or pistachio nuts are treated in a similar way. 



APRIL 1. 

• Our life a shori; but to ixUnd fkat tfan 
T» vast OtmUy, it virtual work.' — Shakspxaxe. 



PROVISIOKS IN &£ASOK. 

Heat : Beef— Mutton — Veal. Grass-Lamb is best from April to June, 
PoiTlTEY : Pullets — Fowls — Qiickens — Ducltlings — Pigeons — Rabbits. 
Fish : Brill— Carp— Cockles— Cod— Conger-Eels— Craba—Dabbs—Doiy— Eels— 

FItnmden — Ling — Lobsters — M ackeiel — Mulle t — Mussels — Oysters — Perch — 

PDte—FUiee— Prawns— Salmon— Shrimps— State— Smelts— Tench— Tnrbot — 

Whitings. 
Vegetables : Asparagus — Chervil — Cucumbers — Lettuce — Parsnips — Radices — 

Rhnbub— Sea Kale— Spinach {Spring). 

FRUIT IN SEASON. 

Dried Fnit* and Crystalliud Preserres — Apples — Nuts — Feus — Rhubarb— Forced 
Chcnies, etc., foe Tarts. 

1. VEftMicEtLt Soup. I 3. Sea Kals. Serve on Toast 

2. Ribs of Beef. with Melted BorrER. 

I 4. Rhubarb Pie. 

1. Vervtketti Soup. — Soak a couple of oz. in boiling water, till free 
from dost and perfectly white ; then put into rich beef gravy, in which 
vegetables have been stewed, and the liquor well strained. 

2. Sibs of Beef. — Cut away the bones ; cover the meat with an egg 
well beaten up, and then sprinkle a few bread-crumbs and chopped 
tweet herbs; roll the meat up as round as possible, securing it with a 
pece of string tightly tied round ; twenty minutes to each lb. must be 
given by this mode. 

4. Jthuharb PU. — Let a table-spoonful of lime-juice or a squeeze of 
a lemon be put over before the crust is on. 



112 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



APRIL 2. 

' No action will he eomidend at hlamdess unlas the will was so ; for by the will the 

act Tvas dictated.* — ^Seneca. 

1. Fish Pie. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hashed Mutton. | 4. Eve's Pudding. 

X. Fish Fie. — Remove all the bone from the fish, and cover the 
bottom of your pie-dish with it ; then put in the seasoning, then a layer 
of oysters in the proportion of la oysters to i lb. of fish ; cover these 
with another layer of fish, and pour over the whole a gravy of white 
stock ; add a little cayenne, cover with a very light puff paste, and bake 
half an hour. Just before serving, pour in a tea-cupful of warm cream 
or white sauce. 

2. Bashed Mutton. — Put a slice of butter into a thick saucepan, and 
when it boils, throw in a dessert-spoonful of minced herbs, and an onion 
shred small, or 2 or 3 shalots. Shake them over the fire till they are 
lightly browned ; then stir in a table-spoonful of flour, a little mace or 
nutmeg, cayenne, and half a tea-spoonful of salt When the whole is 
well coloured, pour in rather more than f of a pint (according to your 
quantity of meat). Boil it gendy for a quarter of an hour, then strain 
it; add about 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, or any good 
flavouring sauce ; lay in the meat ; keep it by the fire till on the point 
of simmering, but do not let it boiL Garnish with toasted or fried 
sippets of bread, and serve very hot 

4. Ev^s Fudding. — Pare and chop a few apples, take 6 oz. of finely 
grated bread-crumbs, the same quantity of washed currants, 6 oz. of 
crystallized sugar, a little salt, and a little nutmeg finely powdered, half 
a dozen eggs beat well up, a few slips of lemon-peel cut fine, and a 
tumbler of brandy. Boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted 
butter over the pudding just before serving. 

— — 



APRIL 8. 

* Louis tUght is «»;».'— Shakspeare. 



1. Macaroni Soup. 

2. Minced Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rice Dumplings. 



I. Macaroni Soup, — Boil a lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of 
good stock till quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 



"3 



stewpot To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you 
can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve ; then add together the 
two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boiling hot, the macaroni that was 
first taken out, and \ lb. of grated Parmesan cheese. Make it hot, but 
do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the 
size of a shilling. 

2. Minced Veal. — To have this a white dish, let the cold veal be cut 
into slices, pare off the brown edges and fat, and then chop the meat 
into square pieces ; flour these well, and put them into a saucepan, with 
a tea-cupful of cream, the juice of a lemon, a little of the peel chopped 
very fine, a very small quantity of salt, mace, and white pepper ; keep 
shaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil for more than a minute, 
or you will render the meat hard. 

4. Riu Dumplings. — Soak the rice well, then strain off the water ; 
then spread the rice out upon a cloth about an inch thick, and place an 
apple dumpling in the centre ; peel and core the fruit, and place in the 
centre a couple of cloves and some brown sugar. Place in a cloth, tie 
tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with wine sauce. 



APRIL 4. 



' CaUkcr wise whose actions^ words^ and steps^ are all a clear because, to a clear why. '• 

Lavater. 



X. Soup A LA Sap. 
2. Haunch of Mutton and 
Jelly. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Boiled Batter and Orange 

Marualade. 



I. Stmfi d la Sap, — Boil \ lb. of grated potatoes, a lb. of beef sliced 
thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and 3 oz. of rice in 6 pints of water. 
Strain it through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a 
saucepan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and 
add pepper and salt ; and when you serve, add also fried bread. 

4. Bailed Batter and Orange Marmalade. — Put in a basin 3 table- 
spoonfiils of flour, with milk sufficient to moisten it, carefully rubbing 
down all the lumps ; pour in the remainder of the pint of milk ; melt i 
02. of butter and stir in ; keep beating the mixture, and add 3 eggs and 
a pinch of salt When the batter is smooth, put into a well-buttered 
basm, tie down tightly, and put it into boiling water, moving it about 
a few minutes to prevent the flour settling, and boil for an hour and a 
quarter. Or, boil it in a floured cloth that has been wetted in hot water ; 
it will take about an hour. Serve with wine sauce ; or stewed fiiiit or jam 

H 



114 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

may be put as a garnish, in small quantities, round the dish. This 
pudding must be sent very quickly to table. Some orange marmalade 
may be made warm and put over the top of the pudding. 



APRIL B. 

' Whin the deuU finds the door shut, he retires i ' 

1. Fried Eels. 1 3. Mashed Potatoes. 

2. Fowl served with Rice. | 4. Shelpord Pudding. 

1. Fried Eels. — If small, should be curled round; if large, cut into 
pieces about two inches long, dipped into egg and crumbs of bread, and 
fried. 

2. Fowl servedwith Kiee.'^The fowl being prepared as usual for boiling, 
take the liver and gizzard, and put them with a small piece of fresh 
butter rolled in pepper and salt inside the bird Put it into a stewpan, 
and well cover it with cold water ; set it to boil, and keep it carefully 
skimmed ; as soon as it boils, set it aside, and cover closely to simmer 
for two hours. Have ready ^ lb. of rice nicely washed and picked, 
that has been steeped in soft water for three hours, drain it, and put it 
into the stewpan with the fowl, adding 3 finely-minced shalots, and a 
little pepper and salt to taste ; stir frequently, and keep boiling slowly 
for twenty minutes ; meanwhile boil a bunch of parsley very green in 
salt and water, drain, and chop fine. Lift out the fowl on to the centre 
of a dish, stir the parsley into the rice, and pour it over. Garnish your 
dish with sliced lemon and curled parsley. 

4. Shelford Pudding, — Mix J lb. of currants or raisins, i lb. of suet, 
I lb. of flour, 6 eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt 
Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. 



APRIL a 

' The sublimity 0/ wisdom is to do those things livings which are to be desired whem 

W15P.*— Jeremy Taylor. 



1. Spitchcock Eels. 3. Vegetables. 

2. Fricassee op Beef. 4. Rice Hedgehog. 

I. Spitchcock Eels. — ^Take 2 or 3 large eels, leave the skm on, cut them 
into pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 115 

them well ; wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and 
strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper and salt, a very little 
sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. 
Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. 
Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. 

2. Fricassee of Beef . — Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred parsley 
very fine, cut an onion in quarters, put all together into a stewpan with 
sufficient broth, season with salt and pepper ; stew for an hour, mix into 
it the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly, rub a hot dish with 
shalot, and serve in it 

Note. — ^Just before serving, put in a table-spoonful of vinegar. 

4. Rice Hedgehog. — Boil \ pint of rice in \ pint of milk, till thoroughly 
done ; then sweeten and flavour to taste with lemon or ratafia ; beat 2 
eggs well and add to the rice, which put in an oval mould to grow cold. 
Kanch ^ lb. of sweet almonds and cut them in slips, and make a boiled 
custard of 2 eggs, and rather less than \ pint ot milk. When all is cold, 
turn the rice out, and stick in the almonds all over ; then pour the 
custard over, and serve. 



APRIL 7. 

* WhiH thy hand hath done a good act^ ask thy Heart whether it was well done.'* — 

Fuller. 

1. Plaice. i 3. Vegetables. 

2. LnrsE AND Bacon. I 4. Custard Pudding. 

1. Plaice, — Sprinkle with salt, and let it be for a few hours, then wash 
and wipe it dry; wet over with egg, and cover with crumbs of bread ; 
make some lard or fine dripping, and two large spoonfiils of vinegar ; 
boiling hot^ lay the fish in, and fiy it a fine colour ; drain it from the fat, 
and serve with fried parsley round and anchovy sauce. 

2. Uver and Bacon^ — Chop up finely a shalot and half a dozen sprigs 
of parsley, roll a piece of butter the size of a walnut in flour, season a 
tea-cupfiil of veal stock with salt and pepper; put these and a calfs 
liver cat into slices into a stewpan for three-quarters of an hour. Having 
soaked the required number of slices of bacon in Itikewarm water for 
an hour, fiy them, and place them round a dish alternately with the 
slices of liver ; pour the liquor from the stewpan, through the sieve, into 
the centre of the dish. 

3. Vegetables, — Steam as many potatoes as are required in their skins, 
say 2 lbs., and while they are cooking set on i large Spanish onion, cut 



ii6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



in rings, or two common ones, which boil in plenty of water. Take up 
the potatoes when done, peel and mash; strain the water from the 
onions, and add to them half a pint of milk ; boil up and put them to 
the potatoes ; beat all well together, and flavour with pepper and salt. 
This is an excellent way of preparing potatoes to be eaten with fried 
rashers of bacon or with liver and bacon. 

4. Custard Pudding, — Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little 
cold milk, and pour on it i^ pints of boiling milk. Sweeten and 
flavour to your taste; beat 3 eggs, yolks and whites separately, and 
beat them into the thickened milk as soon as it is cooL Half an hour 
in a good oven will cook it Eaten cold with fruit tart, it is very nice. 



APRIL 8. 
*Iiis astonishing how little one feels poverty when otu /i?zw.*— BULWER Lytton, 

1. Stewed Lobster. i 3. Vegetables. 

2. Olla Podrida. I 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 

1. Stewed Lobster, — Pick the lobster; put the berries into a dish that 
has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, 2 spoonfuls of 
any sort of gravy, i of Soy or walnut ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, 
and a spoonful of port ; stew the lobster, cut into bits with the gravy as 
above. 

2. Olla Podrida, — Chop up like sausage meat any cold remains of 
flesh or fish, allowing for every lb. of meat a lb. of bread crumbs ; soak 
these in cold water, and wring them dry in a cloth. Put into a stewpan 
3 oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of chopped onions, fry for two 
minutes, then add the bread ; stir with a wooden spoon till rather dry ; 
season the meat with salt, pepper, lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and put 
into the bread ; stir continually till very hot, then add 2 beaten eggs 
separately, pour out on a dish till cold ; divide it into egg-sized and 
shaped pieces flattened slighdy, and fiy, or sauti in lard, fat, or 
oil. 

4. Ground Pice Pudding, — Moisten 2 oz. ground rice with half a gill 
of new milk, and add a gill of boiling milk, and stir over the fire for ten 
minutes, then let it get cold. Beat 3 eggs and 2 oz. of fresh butter to 
a cream, and mix them well into the rice; add the rind grated of half a 
lemon, and 3 oz. of softened loaf sugar. Beat all for twenty minutes ; 
butter 6 cups or small moulds ; put an equal quantity in each, and bake 
them eighteen minutes in a quick oven. Serve hot directly with loaf 



BILL 01 FARE FOR APRIL. ir; 



sugar sifted over them, and the following sauce; dish flavoured 'with 
essence of lemon instead of sweet almonds. 

Almond Sauce. — ^Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little 
cold water ; boil 3 do. of sugar in a gill of water for ten minutes, mix 
it with the arrowroot, and stir it over the fire for two minutes ; add 2 
table-spoonfuls of brandy, and essence of sweet almonds 20 drops. 
Serve in the dish, not over the pudding. 



APRIL 9. . 

• T would noi rob your sex of a single advantage you possess from nature, providence, 
cr Ugitimate custom, I would not divest you oftlu smallest ornament thai judgment 
Mas put on, that prudence allows, or that decency warrants.* — Rev. James Fordyce, 
D.D. 

I. MULUGATAWNV SOUP. I 3. VEGETABLES. 

2. Leg of Veal Boiled. I 4. Ratafia Pudding and Sauce. 

1. Muiiigatawny Soup. — Slice and peel 12 good-sized onions; fry 
them in butter, with a full table-spoonful of curry-powder. Put them 
into a stewpan with 2 quarts of good veal stock and a small quantity of 
mace, thickening with flour. Stew for an hour, and strain it If not 
thick enough, add a little more flour and butter. Cut up a cold chicken 
into small pieces, and put it into the soup with a tea-cupful of cream. 
Give a final boil, and serve. 

2. Leg of Veal Boiled. — ^Take out the bone, and fill the space with 
a staffing made of bread-crumbs, minced salt pork, suet chopped fine, 
parley, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt ; sew up the opening, or draw the 
flap over it, and skewer it down. Put it into a long pot, and cover it 
with cold water with a table-spoonful of salt ; skim it well, and let it 
simmer slowly till done enough, which may be ascertained by passing 
a fork into it. Serve with parsley and butter, or oyster sauce. The 
liquor will make excellent soup or broth with the addition of vegetables. 

4. Ratafia Puading and Sauce. — Soak in half a pint of boiling milk, 4 
oz. sifted sugar, 4 oz. fine bread-crumbs, 4 fresh eggs well beaten, half a 
gill of cream, half a wine-glassful of ratafia, and 2 oz. of blanched sweet 
almonds split in halves. When the bread has absorbed the milk, mix 
in aU the ingredients except the almonds, and beat for ten minutes 
with a wooden spoon ; butter a basin, and stick it in lines with the 
almonds, cover it closely over with writing paper spread with butter, 
and steam for an hour and three-quarters over fast-boiling water. Turn 
oat carefully, and have ready to pour in the dish the following sauce : 



ii8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

A dessert-spoonful of arrowroot moistened with a wine-glassful of cold 
water ; add a gill of boiling water, stirring in a table-spoonful of ratafia, 
and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of loaf sugar. 



APRIL lO. 

' She is well fed whom God loves^ 

1. Spring Soup. I 3. Bread and Ginger Pudding, 

2. Chowder. I and Sauce. 

1. Spring Soup, — One quart of green peas ; take a good quantity of 
lettuce, parsley, spinach, and spring onions, if liked. Put them in a 
close-covered stewpan, with a lump of fresh butter, pepper and salt, and 
a little water. Squeeze them through a cullender. Throw in some 
rice that has been previously boiled, season to taste, and let it simmer 
another quarter of an hour. Thicken with a little flour and ketchup. 

2. Chowder. — Frizzle pork and onions till quite brown ; put a layer 
at bottom of saucepan — z, saucerfiil ; on that a layer of mashed potatoes, 
a soup-plateful ; on that, raw sea bass (turbot or plaice is a good sub- 
stitute for sea bass) cut in lumps — ^four pounds; on that, pork and 
onions as before ; add half a nutmeg, a spoonful of mace, a spoonful of 
cloves, and double that quantity of thyme and summer savory, another 
layer of mashed potatoes, 3 or 4 crackers ; half a bottle of ketchup, half 
a bottle of claret, a large pinch of black and a small pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Just cover this with boiling water, and put it on the fire dll the 
fish is cooked. 

3. Bread and Ginger Puddings and Sauce, — Cut 4 oz. of preserved 
ginger into quarter-inch pieces ; soak 4 oz. of crumb of French roll in 
half a pint of milk for two hours ; beat 4 eggs, and mix aU together ; add 
2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger syrup, and 4 oz. of loaf sugar in powder ; beat 
the mixture for twenty minutes; pour it into a buttered mould; tie 
buttered writing paper over, and steam for an hour and a half over fast- 
boiling water. Turn out with care, and serve with sauce made as 
follows : Put an inch of bruised ginger and 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a 
saucepan with half a gill of water, and boil till well flavoured ; then add 
a table-spoonfiil of ginger syrup, the strained juice of a lemon, and a 
wine-glassful of rum or brandy. Strain the whole of the sauce. 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL, 119 



APRIL 11. 

' Mofuy is a good snvanfy but a dangerous master.^ — BoNHOUKS. 



I. Cod Pie. 

2. OXHXAAT. 



3. Mashxd Potatoes. 

4. Cumberland Pudding. 



1. Cod Pie, — ^Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 
weU one night ; next day wash it, season with pepper, salt, and a veiy 
little nntmeg mixed ; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a 
little good broth of any sort into the dish ; cover it with a crust ; and 
when done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, \ pint of cream, a 
little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one 
boil ; oysters may be added. 

2. Oxheart, — ^This joint is as good baked as roasted. It is not an 
aristocratic joint ; but if well prepared and served, it is a very cheap and 
savouiy dish. Soak the heart for an hour in hot water, having removed 
the lobes ; then wipe it very dry. Make a forcemeat as for veal, or 
if prefeiied, one of sage and onions, with a few bread-crumbs added. 
Fill the heart with the stuffing, and sew it up. Cover with larded 
paper, and roast or bake for two hours, keeping it well basted. Serve 
with a good gravy, which can be made from the lobes ; and if veal 
stuffing is used, with currant jelly ; if sage and onion, with apple sauce. 

IMe. — ^The main points on which the excellence of this dish depends 
are, that it should be thoroughly cooked, and served very hot. 

4. Cumberland Pudding, — Mix the following ingredients well together, 
and beat for ten minutes : 3 oz. fine bread-crumbs ; 4 oz. currants, well 
washed; 4 oz. of apples, finely chopped; 4 oz. finely chopped beel 
maxTOw or suet ; 4 oz. moist sugar ; the grated rind and strained juice of 
half a lemon; the sixth part of a nutmeg grated ; a table-spoonful ot 
dried flour ; 3 eggs well beaten, and half a gill of milk. Put the mixture 
in a buttered basin, tie a cloth over, and boil izsX for three hours in 
plenty of boiling water, and serve with sifted sugar over. It may also 
be baked, if preferred, an hour and a half in a moderate oven. 




120 7HINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



APRIL 12. 

' All true lave is grounded on esteem. '— DUKS OF BUCKINGHAM. 

1. White Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hashed Mutton. | 4. Oxford Dumpungs. 

T. White Soup. — ^Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after 
cutting up as much meat as will make collops ; 2 or 3 shank-bones of 
mutton nicely cleaned, and ^ lb. of fine undressed lean gammon of 
bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 3 
blades of mace, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper, and 2 or 3 onions ; 
boil all in 3 quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day 
take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it in a very 
nice tin saucepan. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon 
enough to get quite tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli 
may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have 
ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows : — ^Blanch \ lb. 
of sweet almonds, beaten to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful 
of water to prevent their oiling ; mince a large slice of dressed veal or 
chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread ; add all this to a 
pint of thick cream, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace 
in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, 
and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thickening is then 
fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour after- 
wards. 

2. Hashed Mutt(m. — Cut up the meat to be hashed into small pieces, 
not too thick, and lay them aside ; break up the bones, and set them to 
stew in rather more water than is wanted for gravy ; if liked, put in an 
onion, or only salt and pepper; let it stew an hour ; take off all the fat, 
and strain the gravy clear; mix sufficient flour to thicken, with any 
sauce you may prefer ; thicken and season to taste ; if necessary, colour 
it — the colour should be a delicate brown ; bring it to the boil, then 
put in the meat, and place it where it will only get thoroughly heated 
through. Serve with thin toasted sippets in a very hot disH, with currant 
jelly as sauce. 

4. Oxford Dumplings — Of grated bread, 2 oz. ; currants and shred 
suet, 4 oz. each ; 2 large spoonfiils of flour ; a great deal of grated 
lemon-peel ; a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix 
with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow- 
brown, ^lade with flour instead of bread, but with hall the quantity, 
they are excellent Serve with sweet sauce. 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 121 

APRIL IS. 

* The 7veddln« should last through wMed life* 



I. Roast Ducklings and Applb 

Sauce. 
3. Boiled Brisket of Beep. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Potato Dumplings. 



1. Roast Ducklings and Apple Sauce, — Stuff ^n^ with sage and onion, 
a dessert-spoonfiil of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt ; and 
for the gravy, mix equal parts of onion, parsley, and mushrooms chopped 
fine ; boil them in butter, add \ pint of brown sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar ; season with salt Pour round — not over — the ducks. 

2. Boiled Brisket of Beef. — A piece of brisket or thin flank of beef, 
weighing 8 lbs., will take four hours' boiling. To know if it be boiled 
enough, you may insert a fork through the meat a little way; and 
if it feel soft, then it is done. Pease-pudding is good with boiled 
bee£ Brisket of beef, if to be eaten cold, should be laid on a board ; 
and a heavy weight should be set on it, to press out all the loose fat : 
it then cuts smooth and solid. 

4. Potato Dumplings, — .Having peeled the potatoes you require, grate 
them into water, and leave the pulp there for two hours ; drain off the 
water, and mix with the potato half its weight in flour. Season to taste, 
with pepper, salt, chopped onion, and sweet herbs. Roll into dump- 
lings size of large apples, toss into a pan of boiling water, and boil till 
they rise to the top, when they will be sufliciently done. 



APRIL 14. 

• If a young lady is deeply possessed with a regard for *^ whatsoever things are pure, 
Icody, and of good report,** it will lead to decorum spontaneously, and /low with un- 
studied propriety through every part of her attire and demeaticurj* — Rev. James 
FoROYca, D.D. 



I. Pease Soup. 

a. Calf's Head Boned. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Macaroni Pudding. 



I. Pease Soup. — Any fresh -meat boilings may be used for pease 
soup, but the flavour of pork is much nicer. Take a couple of hocks 
of pork, with their fat, which have not been salted more than two or 
three days. Wash them well before putting them on in your boiler in 
cold water. When they boil and have been skimmed, add 2 split 
carrots, 2 sliced turnips, 3 or 4 sliced onions, a parsnip, and 2 good 



122 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

heads of celery, with a littie of the green leaf remaining. When the 
flesh of the feet will come away from the bones, take them oat, and cut 
them into small pieces, to add to the soup just before serving. When 
the hocks are well done, they can be taken out^ and either have their 
meat applied to the same purpose, if liked, or be set aside to be eaten 
cold at breakfast or lunch. When the v^etables aie quite tender, 
take them out, chop them fine, and return them to the soup, or squeeze 
them into it, through a cullender, into the shape of a purk. Add the 
purte of pease to thicken the soup to the consistency liked, throw in 
the meat of the feet and what you like of the hock ; season with cajrenne 
and pepper to taste ; add salt, if needed ; and serve hot 

2. Calf 5 Head Boned. — From half a calf s head, with the skin on, 
take out the bones, egg the inside well, put in the tongue, and sew the 
top and bottom together. Put this into a stewpan, with the bones, a 
pound of gravy-beef cut into bits, a bunch of parsley, a handful of sweet 
herbs, a couple of onions chopped fine, and a tearspoonfiil of salt, and 
half that quantity of soluble cayenne. Fill the stewpan three parts 
with water, and stew the contents for three hours. When required for 
table, take out the head, glaze it with egg, and pour a little of the 
liquor through a sieve into the dish. 

4. Maaironi Pudding. — ^Boil 2 oz. in a pint of milk, with a bit of 
lemon-peel and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and 
pour a custard over them hot, but serve cold. 



APRIL 18. 

' If thou wouldst know stWs strength, thy lusts how hard to tame. 
Against th^m take up arms, and earnest war proclaim,^ 

Archbishop Trench. 



I. POTAGS A LA JARDINIERE. 

2. AiTCH Bone op Beep. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding. 



1. Potage d la Jardiniere, — ^Take potatoes, turnips, carrots, and cdeiy, 
and leeks in sufficient quantity; cut them in pieces; put them in a' 
stewpan on a gentle fire, and scald them a few minutes in boiling water. 
Complete their cooking with broth or soup. When nearly done, throw 
in some green peas, asparagus tops, or other tender vegetables, as 
time and place allow. 

2. Aitck Bone of Beef . — ^This joint requires abundance of water, and 
to be boiled very slowly, allowing an hour for every 5 lbs., or, in shoit, 
twelve minutes for each pound. The meat can only be rendered 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 123 

tender by the water boiling very gently. It is an admirable dish either 
hot or cold ; and at this season of the year may with advantage be 
dressed over night, and served next day with a salad or pickles. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding, — Boil a cupful of ground rice in a pint of 
new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, 
nutmeg, and 2 ^gs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. 



APRIL 16. 

' grant me. Heaven^ a middle state. 
Neither too humble nor too great ; 
More than enough for natures ends. 
With something left to treat my friends,^ — Mallet. 



I. POTAGE A LA ReINE. 

2. Curried Fowl. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Spanish Fritters. 



1. Pottle d la Reine. — Boil a couple of young fowls, with a bunch of 
parsley, in enough water. When done, take them out, skin them, and 
cut off all the flesh. Return the skin, the bones, and sinews to the 
broth, and let all boil together till well reduced. Then strain off; 
chop up the flesh of the fowls as fine as you can, and then pound it 
in a mortar with half a dozen blanched almonds, a couple of hard egg- 
yolks, and some crumb of bread soaked in the broth. While pounding, 
gradually moisten with broth, and work till all is smooth enough to 
press through a strainer. Add this/»r& to the chicken broth, stirring 
in at the same time a pint or more of cream, and seasoning lightly 
with pepper and salt. Before pouring the soup into the tureen, toasted 
or fried bread-dice may be laid at the bottom ; but the soup is kept 
whiter by only adding rice or vermicelli, ready cooked, in the broth. 

2. Curried FowL—CmX. the fowl or rabbit into small pieces ; melt \ 
lb. firesh butter in a stewpan, and, when dissolved, put in the meat, and 
a Spanish onion cut into thin slices. When the meat becomes brown, 
pour in about half a pint of veal stock, and stew over a gentle fire for a 
quarter of an hour. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with a spoonful of 
salt in water, then add 3 tea-spoonfuls of curry powder and the juice of 
a lemon to the meat; stir all well together, and give it twenty minutes' 
more stewing. Serve with boiled rice. 

4. Spanish Fritters, — Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as 
thick as your finger, in which shape you will soak in some cream, nut- 
m^ sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an t^. When well soaked^ fry of 
a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. 



124 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

APRIL 17. 

' Wish chasidy, and lazfe dearfy.'—SHAKSVZAXR, 



1. Oxtail Soup. 

2. Calf's Head. 

3. Boiled Po&k. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Plum-pudding. 



1. Oxtail Soup, — One large or two small tails will make soup for half 
a dozen people. If not quite fresh, the soup will be milky, and perhaps 
unsavoury. Cut them into joints, and stew them slowly for three or 
four hours, until the meat comes easily from the bones, with a sufficiency 
of water, carrots, onions, pepper, and salt, taking care not to let the 
peculiar flavour of the oxtail be overpowered by any other. When 
done, take out the pieces of tail whole, and set them aside. Thicken 
the stew with flour and fried onion, diluting it afterwards with good 
consommL Strain, add the oxtail, boil up, and serve. 

2. Calf s Head, — ^Wash and cleanse the head thoroughly; take out 
the brains and soak them in cold water, and pick them quite clean. 
Boil the head slowly for an hour and a half; then put the brains into a 
small saucepan, and boil them in half a pint of the liquor for half an hour. 
Then take up the head in a dish, mash the brains, and season them 
with pepper and salt ; turn them back into the little saucepan, add a 
few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of wine ; 
shake all well together, just give it a boil, and serve it for sauce, either 
poured over the head or separately in a boat. The liquor will make 
excellent soup the next day. Some cooks bone the head previous to 
boiling. 

5. Plum-pudding, — Flour and suet, \ lb. of each, 4 eggs, \ pint of 
new milk, with a little mace and nutmeg, \ lb. of raisins, do. of currants. 
Mix well, and boil three-quarters of an hour, with the cover of the 
pot on. 



APRIL 18. 

* WeaUh is to be used only as the instrument 0/ action, not as the representative ofchril 

honours and moral excellence,^ — ^Miss Po&ter. 



1. Roast Fowls. 

2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 



3. Caper Sauce. 

4. Turnips. 



I. Roast Fowls. — Pick and draw them : be careful not to break the 
gall-bag in drawing, as, if the gall be spilled, it will render any part 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 125 

which it touches bitter j a fowl should be so cleanly drawn as to require 
no washing, but merely to be wiped out with a clean dry cloth. Singe 
them ; then press down the breast-bone. Break the legs by the middle 
of the first joint, draw out the sinews, and cutoff the parts at the break. 
Put the gizzard in one pinion and the liver in the other, and turn the 
points on the back ; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, and 
bring the middle of the leg close to it ; put the skewer dirough the 
middle of the leg and through the body, and the same on the other 
side ; put another, skewer through the small of the leg and the sidesman, 
and another through the other side. Cut the head ofif close to the 
body, leaving sufficient skin to tie on the back. Suspend it neck down- 
wards. Baste with butter for some time after putting to the fire. They 
will require from half an hour to an hour, according to the size. Wlien 
fowls are large, they are very good stuffed like turkey. 

Serve roast fowls with melted butter or gravy sauce. Before you 
send them to table, remove all skewers and strings which may have 
been used in trussing. Fowls and all other feathered animals are 
served with the breast upwards. 

2. Boiled L^ of Mutton, — If your pot be not long enough to let the 
1^ lie straight, you may cut the tendon at the joint and bend round the 
shank. Do not put in too much water, as the liquor will make good broth. 
Throw a little salt into the water when you put in the mutton, as that 
will make the scum rise, which must be taken ofif clean. Let it boil 
slowly and equally ; a good-sized leg of mutton, say of 8 lbs., will be 
done sufficiently in two hours. Do not boil turnips or any other 
vegetable with the meat, as they will flavour it, and prevent its keeping 
so well when cold. Dish it with a very little of the liquor, as, if the 
meat be good, and not too much boiled, it will yield sufficient gravy 
when cut Mashed turnips form the appropriate vegetable to this dish, 
with caper sauce. 



APRIL 10. 

' Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy, * — PoLLOK. 



1. PeasbSoup. 

2. Fricandeau of Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rice Flummery. 



I. Fease Soup, — Soak the peas all night in soft water ; put them on 
with the water cold, and without salt. When quite tender and falling 
to pieces, squeeze them with the back of a wooden spoon through a 
laige-holed cullender into a bowl; the skins and hard bits will remain in 
the cullender. 



126 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2, I*ricandtau of Veal. — Let the veal be well larded, and place it in 
the stewpan with the larded side uppermost ; then add 2 large tumblers 
of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, 
and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a haK Brown 
the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed 
mushrooms. 

4. Riu Flummery. — Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon-peel 
and cinnamon. Mix with a little cold milk as much rice flour as will 
make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of 
peach water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, but do not let it bum. 
Four it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When cold, 
turn it out, and serve with custard. 



APRIL 20. 

* In all the sciences^ in every valuable profession^ in the common intercourse oflife^ in 
dress, etc., and, let me add, even in the subiimest subjects^ ** simplicity " is that which^ 
above everything dse^ touches and delights.^— ViEY, James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce 

AND Gravy. 

2. Boiled Fresh Pork. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Baked Apple Pudding. 



1. Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce and Gravy. — Stuff with sausage 
meat, and let the liver be roasted inside ; and while the fowl is being 
carved, crush the liver with a veiy small fork, and put it in a small 
saucepan with the juice of a lemon, half a glass of red wine, pepper, 
and salt ; give it a shake or two over the fire, and pour it hot over the 
cut-up fowl. 

2. Boiled Fresh Pork. — ^Take a fat blade-bone of country pork, com- 
monly called the oyster; take out the bone, and put veal stuffing in its 
place ; wrap it in a dean doth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling 
water with a little salt ; let it boil slowly for about an hour and a half^ 
or an hour and three-quarters, according to the size: it should, however, 
be well done. Serve it up with parsley, and butter poured over it 
plentifully. 

4. Bctked Apple Pudding. — ^Pare and quarter 4 laige apples ; boil them 
tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none 
may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a 
small roll, 4 oz. of batter melted, the yolks of 5 and whites of 3 eggs, 
juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. Beat all together, and lay it 
in a dish with paste to turn out 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 



127 



APRIL 21. 
' Heaves^ s harmony is universal love,* — COWPER. 



1. White Soup. 

2. Boiled Leg OF Mutton. 



3. Caper Sauce. 

4. New College PuDDiNO. 



1. White Soup, — ^Beat ^ lb. of sweet almonds to a paste in a marble 
mortar, with a spoonful of water. Found together ^ lb. of cold veal or 
poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, and add to the almonds ; beat all 
together, adding i blade of mace pounded, and a piece of nice lemon- 
peel chopped very fine. Four the boiling stock on the whole, and 
simmer for an hour. Rub the yolks of 2 hard-boOed eggs in \ pint of 
cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve directly. 

2. BoiUd L^ cf Mutton, — This should be boiled in a deep fish-kettle 
with a strainer at the bottom to take it up by, as a fork should never be 
stack in the meat Weigh the mutton, place it in scalding YfdXex enough 
to just cover it ; after it bubbles^ allow a quarter of an hour to every lb. 
it weighs, and eight minutes to any ^ lb. Never allow it to boQ, but 
just to bubble : if it boils, the meat will be hard; if it does not bubble, the 
meat wiU eat raw, 

3. Caper Sauce. — ^Boil the capers, and then put them into the butter 
idiole. 

4. New College Pudding, — Grate the crumb of a twopenny loaf, shred 
suet 8 oz., and mix with 8 oz. of currants, i oz. of citron mixed fine, i 
oz. of orange, a handful of sugar, hall a nutmeg, 3 eggs beaten, yolk and 
white separately. Mix and make into the size and shape of a goose 
egg. Fut \ lb. of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted and quite 
hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; tiun them two or three times, 
till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the butter; serve 
with sauce. 



APRIL 22. 

' Love has no thought of self t 
Lave sacrifices all things 
To bless the thing it loves. '—Lord Lytton. 



1. HockopSoup. 

2. Fillet op Veau 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Cheesecakes. 



I. Hock of Soup, — Simmer a hock of beef gently for six hours in a 
gallon of water — ^be carefiil to skim it thoroughly. Fut in 2 onions. 



128 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

cut fine, and tie in a bunch some sweet marjoiy, thyme, and celeiy. 
Skim off all fat, and season with pepper, salt, and a little ketchup. 

2. FUUt oj Veal, — Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting, and 
twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed. Before cooking, 
let the flap be stuffed with a forcemeat, composed of 2 oz. of finely- 
powdered bread-crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, a salt-spoonful 
of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace in powder, and soluble 
cayenne pepper, the leaves of half a dozen stalks of parsley, and a tea- 
spoonful of dried sweet herbs; break up an egg, and mix these in- 
gredients well together. Baste your joint with fresh butter, and send 
it to table well browned. A nice bit of streaky bacon, or gammon, 
should invariably be served with fillet of veal, unless ham be provided. 

4. Cheesecakes. — Boil a quart of milk, pour it quite hot into a basin, 
and mix well with it a table-spoonful of runnet In about an hour, 
break up the curd, drain off the whey, and spread the curd on the back 
of a sieve till it is quite free firom liquid. Dissolve a couple of ounces 
of powdered sugar in an ounce and a half of butter, then add the yolks 
of a couple of eggs, a glass of sheny or Madeira, and a quarter of a 
nutmeg grated ; have an ounce of currants well washed and picked ; let 
all these be now mixed with the curd. Line your pattypans with light 
paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven for twenty- 
five minutes. 



APRIL 23. 

* Be thoufamUiar^ hut by no means vulgar J* — Shakspease. 

1. OxcHEEK Soup. | 3. Vegetables. 

2. Boiled Fowls. | 4. Marmalade PuDDiNa 

T. Oxcheek Soup, — Break the bones, and wash the cheek thoroughly. 
Put it into a large stewpan, with the fieshy part downwards. Place 
the butter at the bottom ; add the ham and all the above-mentioned 
vegetables and spices, and let it tlien simmer for a quarter of an hour 
over a moderate fire. Then put in 5 quarts of warm water, and let it 
simmer till reduced to 2 quarts. Take out the head, and strain off the 
liquor through a fine sieve, and place it by to cooL The next day 
take off the fat, and add the lean meat of the cheek, cut into small 
pieces. Scald the vermicelli, and put it and some browning into the 
liquor, and let it gently simmer for twenty minutes. Add the powdered 
lemon-rind and the white wine, and send the soup to table. 

2. Boiled Fowls.— Kvdid. black-legged fowls for boiling ; the other 
kinds cook whiter. Pick, singe, and draw the fowls, and truss in the 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. * 129 

following maimer: — Cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to skewer back. 
Cut off the feet to the first joint, tuck the stumps into slits made on 
each side of the belly, twist the wings over the back of the fowl, fasten 
the tips of the wings to the tops of the legs by passing a skewer through 
them and the body. Make a slit in the apron to admit the rump, and 
tie a string round it and the ends of the legs to keep them in place. 

When firmly trussed, put them in hot water or veal stock sufficient to 
well cover them, bring them to the boil quickly, then set aside and sim- 
mer very gently. T7u slower f(nvls are boiled^ the whiter and plumper they 
will be. A pair of large fowls will take one hour, smaller ones three- 
quarters, chickens firom twenty to thirty minutes. They should be 
dished covered in white sauce, the skewers being removed, and mush- 
room sauce served in a tureen. The accompaniments should be either 
boiled ham, tongue, bacon, bath chaps, or pickled pork. 

4. Marmalade Pudding, — Butter a plain pudding mould or basin, 
and cut thin slices of bread free from crust j line the basin with the 
bready and cover that with orange or other marmalade, then bread, and 
fill up alternately. Make a raw custard of i pint of milk and 4 eggs, 
which pour over the bread and marmalade ; tie the pudding over tightly, 
and boil for half an hour. Serve with sauce or not, as preferred. 



APRIL 24. 

' When we are alone, we have our thoughts to watch ; in the family, our tempers ; and 

in company, our tongues.'' — Hannah More. 



1. Salt Fish. 

2. Fore-quarter Lamb and 

Currant Jelly. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Lemon Pudding. 



1. Salt Fish, — Soak it for some hours to take out the salt, changing 
the water frequently. Put it into cold water. It will take from ten to 
twenty minutes after it boils, according to the thickness of the fish. 
Serve it with boiled parsnips, and egg-sauce in a boat 

2. Fore-quarter Lamb and Currant Jelly. — ^Twelve minutes' roasting 
should be allowed for eveiy pound the joint weighs ; it should be well 
basted with fresh butter, and a light sprinkling from the flour-dredger. 
The usual method of carving it is to separate the shoulders from the 
ribs, squeeze a Seville orange over the newly-cut meat, sprinkle it with 
soluble cayenne pepper and salt, and put two or three small pats ot 
butter between the joints ; these melt and amalgamate with the orange- 
juice and the gravy, and form a piquant sauce for the dish, whilst mint 

sauce is served separately. 

I 



I30 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Lemon Pudding, — Grate i lb. of bread finely, and add to the crumbs 
4 oz. flour, 6 oz. finely-chopped suet, \ lb. moist sugar (white in colour), 
the pounded peel and juice of x large lemon ; mix with as much milk 
as is necessary to form a light dough or thick batter ; boil fix>m three to 
four hours in a mould. When dished, it should be covered with sifted 
sugar, and served with wine sauce. 



APRIL 28. 

' As lave without esteem is capricious and volatile^ esteem without love is languid and 

cold.' — Da. Johnson. 

I. Bouillon. 2. Vegetables. 3. Leicester PuDDixa 

I. Bouillon, — ^Take 6 lbs. of beef. The part to be chosen is either 
rump, mouse, buttock, or leg of mutton piece. Bind it with tape into 
a nice shape, and put it in the digester with 6 quarts of water. Let it 
heat very slowly. Skim very carefully until it boils, and for about half 
an hour while it is boiling, not forgetting to throw in a little cold water 
now and then, to cause the scum to rise. Then add salt (say in the 
proportion of 2 oz. to the gallon), which will send up all the remaining 
scum, which collect and remove. Now put in the vegetables (carrots, 
turnips, celery, onions— ^ne stuck with cloves), and leek if approved, a 
tea-spoonful of whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Proportion 
the vegetables, so that no special flavour shall predominate. Let the 
whole now stew very slowly^ but unceasingly^ for five hours. 

Have ready 2 boiled cabbages, pressed very dry, cut them to serve 
conveniently. Season with pepper and salt, and stew them for ten 
minutes in a little of the broth. Use these for garnish, adding the other 
vegetables grouped in small heaps round the meat, which should be 
served without grav}', in a dish with the vegetables. Strain the soup, 
removing any fat, and colouring it, if necessary, with a little hrawn, not 
blacky burnt sugar. Serve in a tureen. If properly made, it will be 
very clear. The colour should be a pale golden brown. It should be 
accompanied by French roll crust, rasped, and dried in the oven, cut in 
dice or fingers. 

3. Leicester Pudding. — ^Finely chop J lb. of beef suet^ and mix it 
thoroughly with i lb. of flour ; add J lb. of stoned raisins, a tabI^ 
spoonful of sugar, the peel of half a lemon pounded, a little nutmeg, 
and halt a tea-spoonful of salt ; mix dry with the hands very completely ; 
stir a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into a pint of milk, and 
mix ; boil in a mould for two hours and a half, and serve with sweet 
sauce. 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 



13^ 



APRIL 26. 

* If young ladiet wotdd use their accom^Ushments, their talents^ and dress, not for 
display, but as a means of usefulness, their brothers VMmld be more disposed to stay at 
kowu, and much innocent amusement would take the place of idle dissipation,'' — Rev. 
Robert Anderson. 



1. Salmon. 

2. Sauce to ditto. 

3. Roast Leg OP Mutton. 



4. Spinach. 

5. Mashed Potatoes. 

6. Baked Batter Pudding. 



1. SaimofL — Salmon, like cod-fish, is better boiled in pieces than 
whole. A head and shoxilders, weighing 6 lbs., will take half an hour ; 
a whole fish of 10 lbs. weight, one hour. Put the fish into boiling 
water, to which some salt and a little vinegar has been added ; then boil 
slowly. The fish eats much firmer and better thus dressed than when 
set on in cold or lukewarm water. Serve with lobster, anchovy, or 
shrimp sauce, and cucumber salad. Plain butter should also be served, 
as well as some of the liquor in which the fish has been boiled. 

2. Sauce to above. — Put into a nice tin saucepan a pint of port wine, a 
gill of mountain, \ pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies and the 
liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the lind and juice 
of a large lemon, 4 or 5 shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 oz. scraped 
horseradish, 3 blades of mace, and 2 tea-spoonfiils of made mustard ; 
boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put it into small botdes 
for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. 

3. Roast Leg of Mutton. — Procure, if possible, four-years'-old meat, 
and let the leg hang for five or six da)rs in a cool place, and defended 
from flies by a wire safe. Allow a quarter of an hour per pound, and 
roast by brisk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use with 
roast mutton is made by putting two glasses of port wine, one of 
Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, into a small sauce- 
pan, and pouring the contents over the joint just before serving ; this, 
as it mixes with the gravy of the meat — for mutton should never be 
over-roasted — ^will tempt the weakest appetite. 

4. Spinach. — Pick and wash the spinach carefiiUy ; have a large tin 
saucepan with a small quantity of boiling water and a little salt ; put in 
the spinach, press it down, and bring it to the boil as quickly as pos- 
sible. Boil it thoroughly, strsdn and press it very dry, chop it fine ; then 
beat into it 3 oz. of butter, a grate of nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste ; 
return it to the saucepan, keep stirring till at boiling point, press it into 
a shape, and serve. 

6. Baked Batter Puddii^.^^o three heaped table-spoonfuls of flour 
mix a small salt-spoonful of salt, adding gradually 3 eggs strained and 



132 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

whisked to a light froth. Beat up the batter well, and stir into it, by 
degrees, a pint of new milk. If the milk is not very good, add the yolk 
of another egg, pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it three-quarters 
of an hour in a rather brisk oven. Send preserved or stewed fruit to 
table with it This batter may be baked in buttered cups, from twenty 
to thirty minutes ; turned out, with sifted sugar thickly over them. 



APRIL 27. 

' Tliat hope only is rational of which we are sensible that it cannot deceive us.* 

—Dr. Johnson. 



I. Vegetable Soup. 
::. Shoulder of Lamb. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rhubarb Pudding. 



1. Vegetable Soup. — Cut up a middling-sized carrot and one turnip 
into small dice, and peel eighteen button onions ; tlirow all into cold 
water, wash, and drain ; when dry, put them into a two^uart stewpan 
with two ounces of butter and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar ; set 
them over a brisk fire for ten minutes, and toss occasionally until the 
vegetables are covered with a thin slimy glaze. Take great care they 
do not become brown, or the flavour of the soup will be spoiled. It is 
on this part of the process being well performed that the success of the 
soup depends. Pour over the vegetables thus prepared two quarts of 
clear broth, bring it to boiling point, and then set to simmer till the 
vegetables (especially the onions) are tender, carefully skimming off the 
butter as it rises, and it will take about half an hour : taste if agreeably 
seasoned, as it should be with the above proportions ; if not, season to 
your own judgment. 

2. Shoulder of Lamb. — Score the joint with cuts an inch deep, rub it 
over with butter first, then season it with pepper and salt and sweet 
herbs ; rub over these the yolk of an egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs ; 
roast it a light brown. When sufficiently cooked, pour oflf the fat in the 
dripping-pan, and make a gravy of that which remains, seasoning with 
pepper and salt, tomato or mushroom ketchup, the grated rind and 
juice of a lemon, thickened with a little flour. Put the lamb on a clean 
hot dish, and pour the gravy over it 

4. Rhubarb Puddit^. — Make a good suet crust (or good dripping one), 
and line a buttered basin. Wash and wipe (and, if old, string it) 4 or 5 
sticks of fine rhubarb ; cut it into inch lengths, put in \ lb. moist sugar, 
cover with crust, pinch the edges together, tie over it a floured cloth, 
put it in boiling water, and boil it from 2 to 2^ hours. Turn it out, and 
serve with sifted sugar and cream. 



BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 



"^Zl 



APRIL 28. 

■ / hate to see a thing done by halves ; if it be rights do it boldly ; if it be wrong, 

leave it undone,"* — GiLPiN. 



I. Chicken Broth. 

2. B(EUF A LA FlAMMANADE. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Amber Pudding. 



1. Chicken Broth, — Cut up a lean fowl into joints. An old one makes 
better broth than a young one, but it takes a longer time to stew. Put 
it in a well-closed saucepan, with a beef or veal bone, onions, carrot, a 
sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt, and plenty of water. Skim as soon as 
it boils up, and simmer gently afterwards. 

2. Botttf d la Flammanade, — Select a rib of beef of sufficient thick- 
ness to weigh at least 8 lbs. Let the meat be well larded, and braized 
over a slow fire ; then add a pottle of firesh mushrooms (forced at this 
season), 2 lbs. of ruffles, two dozen forcemeat-balls made with plenty 
of eggs, and half a pint of Madeira. 

4. Amber Pudding, — Put a lb. of butter into a saucepan with | lb. of 
loaf sugar finely powdered. Melt the butter, and mix well with it ; then 
add the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten, and as much firesh candied orange as 
will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line 
the dish with paste for turning out, and when well filled with the above, 
lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. 



APRIL 29. 

* Sobriety is a sort of spiritual vesture entirely void of show, substantial y home'spun, 
and hardy — not unfit for any place where a reasonable being ought to appear.^ — Rev. 
James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Carrot and Onion Soup. 

2. Pig's Head Roasted. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Bread and Butter Pudding. 



1. Carrot and Onion Soup, — Cut up a lb. of lean beef into small 
pieces. Put it into a stewpan with chopped onions and carrots, a few 
thin slices of bacon, and half a tumbler of water. Let them simmer and 
stew for a quarter of an hour, till they begin to stick to the bottom of 
the stewpan, then add a quart of boiling water. With a pinch of salt, 
boil three-quarters of an hour. Strain and serve. 

2. Pi^s Head Roasted, — Divide the head of a young porker in half, 
take out the brains, and cleanse the interior thoroughly. Put stuffing 
of bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and lemon-peel, into the space once 
occupied by the brains ; tie the head together carefully ; a stitch or two 



134 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

is advisable to render all secure ; let it roast according to its size, and 
serve with brain and currant sauce. 

4. Bread and Butter Pudding. — Slice bread with butter, and lay it in 
a dish with currants between each layer, and sliced citron, orange, or 
lemon. If to be very nice, pour over an unboiled custard of milk, two 
or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at 
least before it is to be baked ; and lade it over to soak the bread 



APRIL SO. 

' She that has light within her ewn clear breast. 
May sit C the centre and enjoy hrighi day,^ — MlLTON. 



1. Mackerel. 

2. Sauce. 

3. Roast Rabbit. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Deucate Suet Pudding. 



1. Mackerel, — Clean the fish, and boil slowly for twenty minutes or 
half an hour in salt and water. Serve on a napkin, garnished with 
parsley or fennel, and serve in fennel or parsley sauce. When the eyes 
start and the tail splits, the fish is done ; it is better to watch for this 
than to trust to time in the cooking. 

2. Sauce. — Sauce (a sharp) for mackerel. Put in a saucepan, and 
mix over the fire, a tea-spoonful of made mustard and table-spoonful of 
vinegar, with a sauce-tureenful of good melted butter. 

3. Roast Rabbit. — Clear out the interior, and fill it with the same 
stuffing used for hare ; baste it with abundance of fresh butter, and use 
fiour occasionally : thirty minutes' roasting will be sufi[icient for a small 
rabbit ; five or ten more if larger. Boil the liver with a dozen sprigs of 
parsley ; when quite tender, chop both up fine, and add them to melted 
butter as a sauce ; but be sure to have another boat with plain gravy 
sauce to send to table. 

5. Delicate Suet Pudding. — Chop ^ lb. veal suet very fine, and mix 
it with I lb. of sifted and well-dried flour, and half a teaspoonfiil of salt. 
Mix it into a veiy light dough with two well-beaten eggs and a little 
milk. Fill a buttered tin mould, and boil for an hour and a bal£ 
Serve very hot with white pudding sauce. 



DESSERT FOR APRIL. 



135 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL. 

In the middle of the table a stand containing vases of flowers, baskets 
of fruity candelabra, etc 



1. Spongecakk. 

2. Pate la Hollandaise. 

3. Compote de Goings (Confits). 

4. Confiture DE Fleurs 

d'Oranger. 

5. Pate d*Amandes Ceoquante. 

6. Macaeons Souffles. 



7. Gaufres. 

8. Noix Confites au Sucre. 

9. Pate DE Verjus. 
10. Damson Cheese. 

Citron Chips, Dragees, Ices, 
Marons,Pralines,Nuts of dif- 
ferent KINDS, Gaufres, etc. 



I. SPONGECAKE. 

Take i lb. each of eggs, flour, and powdered loaf sugar ; separate the 
yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former for a quarter of an 
hour, and add by degrees a little rasped lemon-rind and the powdered 
sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a high froth, join them with the 
j-olks, and gradually dredge in the flour. Put it into a cake-mould, and 
bake it for rather more than an hour in a moderate oven. 

2. pate a la hollandaise. 

Beat together a wine-glassful of rum, J lb. of lump sugar beaten and 
sifted, a tea-spoonful of carraways, and the whites of 6 eggs whisked to 
a snow ; place it in a saucepan over the Are, stir it until it is pretty stiff. 
Turn it out, make it into balls the size of a large hazel-nut, put them on 
greased paper, and do them in a slow oven. 



3. compote de goings. 

Peel and core your quinces, halve them if small, or if large quarter 
tl)em, and put them into a stewpan with a little water and their weight 
of sugar. Place them over a slow fire, and when they begin to simmer 
withdraw them a little, and let them do very gently for two hours. 
Take them up, place them in your dish, reduce the syrup to a jelly, 
strain it, and i>our it upon the fruit 

4. CONFITURE DE FLEURS D'ORANGER. 

Take some orange-blossoms and pick off the petals, throw them into 
cold water to freshen them. Prepare a strong syrup with the weight of 



136 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

flowers in fine loaf sugar and a little water. Drain your petals, and 
throw them into the syrup ; let them simmer slowly for ten minutes, 
then put them away in pots, with the syrup in which they were done. 
For candying them, you must stir them over a slow fire until the sugar 
of the syrup again becomes a powder. Dry them for use. 

5. PATE D'aMANDES CROQUANTE. 

Blanch a lb. of Jordan almonds, and place them in a very slack oven 
to dry. Then moisten them with the white of an egg, and reduce them 
to a paste in a mortar. Put the paste into a saucepan, stir it over the 
fire until it becomes rather stiff; add gradually i^ lbs. of powdered loaf 
sugar. Mix it well until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved ; turn it out 
upon a slab or table, let it grow cool enough to handle, and make it 
into small biscuits. Stick some slips of blanched almonds upon the 
topSy and bake them slowly upon paper or tins. * 

6. MACARONS SOUFFLES. 

Take \ lb. of blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio nuts, cut 
them into very thin slips, rub them first in the white of an egg, and 
afterwards in 3 oz. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Spread them 
upon a board, and put them into a dry place until the next day. Then 
beat the whites of 3 eggs until they are a firm froth ; mix with them \ 
lb. of powdered loaf sugar, add your almonds, mingle well together, 
make up the paste quickly into small balls, put them upon paper, place 
ihem in a slow oven, and bake imtil they are of a nice colour. 

7. GAUFRES. 

• 

Gaufres are so essential to the dessert, that it is well worth our while 
to procure the apparatus necessary for making them. 

Beat 4 eggs, add \ lb. of powdered sugar, \ lb. of dried flour, i oz. 
of orange flowers candied and beaten to a paste, and enough cream and 
milk, in equal quantities, to make the mixture into a thin batter. Heat 
your gaufre irons, rub them over with a little butter, put in 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls of the paste, press the irons together, and place them in a pretty 
hot oven for a minute or two ; when one gaufre is done, do another, 
until all the batter is employed. The flavour of the gaufres may be 
varied by substituting spices, almonds, eau-de-vie, or Maraschino for 
the candied orange flowers. 

8. NOIX CONFIXES AU SUCRE. 

Take your young green walnuts when they are tender enough to prick 
with a pin ; pare them, and put them into -salt and water. Prepare 



DESSERT FOR APRIL. 137 

some sugai by boiling it until it blows. Drain the nuts, throw them 
into the boiling syrup ; retire them from the £re, put them into a pan, 
and let them remain till next da.y. Boil up the syrup again, pour it 
over the nuts, and let them stay as before. Repeat this again, and then 
place thera in pots, or diy and glaze them to serve as a candy. 

g. PATE DE VERJUS. 

Take some quite lipe grapes, pick them from their stalks, and place 
them in a stewpan over the fire with half their weight of chopped apples. 
Stir them about until they aie soft, then press all through a sieve. Put 
it into a preserving-pan, reduce it, and add the same weight of sugar 
highly refined. Stir it over the fire until it is thick ; lay it in shallow 
moulds. Place it in a slack oven, and when dry dust sugar ovei it 

10. DAUSOH CHEESE. 

Stone your fruit, blanch the kernels, and put them and the damsons 
into a baking-jar; bake it in a moderate oven until it is considerably 
reduced, then put it into a preserving-pan over the lire, and keep stirring 
until it is well thickened ; add a lb. of loaf sugar to each quart of pulp, 
boil it to a candy, then turn it into shallow moulds, and dry gradually. 
This will keep well Black currants done in the same way are excellent 



" Flying ktarls — teuch thtat btit Ughlfy^pimr 
A thoutaitd mdodia -unhtard bifort.' — Rogers. 



IN SEASON. 

Meat : Beef— Mutton— Veal— Grass Lamb. 

POULTEY ! Pallets — Fowls — Chickens — Dacklings — Pigeons — lUbUtl. 

Fish : Brill— Caip— Cod— Conger Eels— Ciabs—Dabbs- Dace— Dory- Eels — 

Flounders — Gurnets — Linj — Lobsters — Mackerel — Mullet — Feich — Pike — 

Plaice— Prawns— Salmon— Shrimps— Skate— Smelts—Tench— Trout— Turbot 

-Whitings. 
Vecetables : Asparagus — Cabbage — Carrots — Canliflowers — CbemI — Com Salad 

— Cucumbers — Lettuce — Peas — Potatoes (and thrtmgh the year) — Radiihea 

— Rhubarb — Sea Kale^Spinach (Spring) — Turnips. 

FRUITS IN SEASON, 

1 Apricots — Cherries — Coose- 

3. VECBTABLtS, 

4. BaTTBK PUDDtHC. 

I. Mackerel au Gratin, — Rub your fish well with salt on both sides, 
and hang it Up in a cuirent of cold dry air for twenty-four hours or 
longer. Take a shallow dish, grease the bottom well with butter or 
the fat of any gravy you may have, and place a few small lumps of it 
here and there, sufficient to keep the fish from sticking. Strew over the 
bottom a thin layer of bread-crumbs and chopped parsley. Lay your 
fish in, and cover it slightly with bread-crumbs mixed with fennel and 
sweet herbs — the parsley predominating. Over this put a few lumps 
of butter, or of beef or veal fat. They cook better and more equally, 
singly, but you may cook several by laying them one above the other, 
with a layer of bread-crumbs, etc., between each. Plaice are good 
cooked this way, omitting the fennel. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 139 

2. Bauf Royalc — ^Take the bones out of a brisket of beef, and scoop 
holes in the meat about an inch asunder ; fill one with small rolls of 
fat bacon, a second with chopped parsley and sweet herbs, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and the third with oysters cut small and powdered 
with a very little mace and nutmeg. AVhen all the apertures are stuffed, 
tie up the meat in a roll, put it into a baking-pan, and pour over it, 
quite hot, a pint of sherry, in which half a dozen cloves have been 
boiled ; flour the meat well, and set it in a slow oven for three hours. 
Pour off the gravy and set it by to cool, that you may skim away the 
£it; if it is not already in a jelly, which it should be, add enough glaze 
to make it so. Serve the beef cold, and the jelly round it. This is a 
veiy savoury dish, and weU adapted for warm weather, not being liable 
to taint 

4. Baiter Pudding, — Beat up, with a whisk, 4 new-laid eggs ; when 
the yolks and whitfes are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of finely- 
sifted flour, in which half a tea-spoonfiil of salt has been mixed ; pour 
upon the flour and egg half a pint of cream or new milk, and add 
a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg 
to cover a sixpence. See that the mould be well buttered ; pour in 
the batter, cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all with a 
proper cloth. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wine sauce over it 
before sending to table. 

MAY 2. 

• A willing heart adds feather to the heel^ 
And makes the clown a wingid Mercury.^ — ^JOANNA Batllie. 



1. Soup. 

2. Capon with Rice. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Cabinet Pudding. 



1. Soup, — Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and slice 3 
turnips, chop up 3 heads of celery and the hearts of 2 lettuces, slice a 
Spanish onion thin. Put these, with \ lb. of butter, two table-spoonfuls 
of salt and one of black pepper, into a stewpan ; set it on a slow fire, 
stir well to prevent burning ; and when the vegetables are nearly warmed 
through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is filled. Let all 
boil^Iowly for three hours and a half, then rub it through a hair sieve. 
If properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a rich 
ycUow colour. 

2. Capon with Rice. — Truss a fine capon for braizing, and cleanse 
the inside well from blood ; put a few slices of lemon on the breast, 
and cover with slices of fat bacon ; work together a little butter, pepper, 
and lemon-juice, and put inside the fowl. At the bottom of an oval 



I40 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

stewpan put a few slices of bacon ; on this place the fowl, and add an 
onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves, a sliced carrot, a bay leaf, and a few 
peppercorns, with as much water or fresh broth as will nearly cover the 
bird ; boil and scum it, then add about \ lb. of butter, and when the 
fowl is about half done, \ lb. of picked and washed rice ; let it cook 
very gently. AVhen done, dish the capon with the rice round, and pour 
some htchamd or sauce supreme over the capon. 

4. Cabinet Pudding, — Break 4 spongecakes into small pieces ; add 3 
or 4 bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of candied 
citron, 2 oz. of ratafia cakes ; beat up 5 eggs with 2 glasses of brown 
sherry and i of brandy ; add enough fine Lisbon sugar to sweeten it 
Boil a pint of milk, with half a dozen cloves and a quarter of a stick of 
cinnamon ; strain, and add the milk to the above. See that the mould 
be well buttered, and boil for the same time. 



MAY 8. 

*Leve Aas its instinct It knows hew to find its way to the hearty as the ftthlest insttt 
moves to itsfiawer^ with an irresistible will, which nothing daunts,^ — Balzac. 



1. Collared Mackerel. 

2. Calf's Head Hashed. 



3. Vegetables — Broccoli Sprouts. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding. 



1. Collared Mackerel, — Bone a large mackerel, but do not skin it; 
mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest 
powder, and rub over the whole inside; bind it tight with a coarse 
tape. Boil in salt and water till done ; then add vinegar, and when 
cold, keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. 
Chopped sage, a little fennel and thyme, knotted marjoram and savoury 
mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

2. Calfs Head Hashed. — Cut the meat into slices, and put the bones 
and trimmings into a stewpan, with a quart of liquor in which the head 
was boiled yesterday ; add a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion, a carrot, 
and a strip of lemon-peel, some mace, salt, and white pepper to taste, 
with a very little cayenne, a glass of sherry, a table-spoonful of lemon- 
juice, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Garnish the dish 
with forcemeat-balls and toasted rolls of bacon, placed alternately. It 
takes about an hour and a half. 

3. Broccoli Sprouts. — Pick and wash them well, and boil them in 
plenty of water, with salt in it ; when they are tender, strain and let 
them cool ; when cold, to heat them again, dredge them with flour, and 
fry them in butter of a light brown, sprinkle them with a little salt, and 
serve them up. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MA K 141 



MAY 4. 

*Act upon your impulses^ hut pray that you may be directed by God?- 

Eme&son Tennent. 



1. Stewed Sturgeon. 

2. Roast Ducks. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. College Pudding. 



1. Stewed Sturgeon. — ^A good-sized slice of sturgeon, stewed for an 
hour over a slow fire, in a rich and well-seasoned beef gravy, is an 
excellent dish. 

2. Ro€ut Ducks, — See that the birds be properly picked, and after 
drawing let the interior be carefully cleaned with a soft towel Boil a 
couple of onions in two waters, and then chop them up very small — ^half 
a tea-cupfiil will be sufficient ; mix the onion with about one-half the 
quantity of fresh sage leaves, 2 oz. of finely-powdered bread-crumbs, 
a spoonful of salt, and the third of a spoonful of soluble cayenne ; beat 
up the yolk of an tgg^ and rub the stuffing materials well together in it 
With a brisk fire, five and thirty minutes' roasting will be sufficient. 
Serve with gravy sauce. 

4. College Pudding. — Break 5 eggs into a basin, and whisk the yolks 
and whites well together ; add, by degrees, 2 oz. of flour, 3 of pounded 
white sugar, as much powdered ginger as will cover a shilling, an equal 
quantity of grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of cream or good milk. 
When you have mixed all these completely together, put in 6 oz. of 
well-washed currants, 4 of finely-chopped suet, an oz. of candied orange- 
peel cut very fine, and a wine-glass of brandy. Fill as many pattypans 
as your mixture will allow, and bake for twenty minutes. 



MAY 8. 

' Bow calmly may we commit oursehes to the hands of Him who hears up the world T- 

Jean Paul Richter. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Irish Stew. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Vermicelli Pudding. 



I. Fried Soles. — Soles, for frying, should be divested of both the 
upper and under skin, rubbed over with the white of tgg well beaten 
up, and laid on the fish with a flat brush ; next strew the soles with 
bread-crumbs, reduced to a very fine powder, and be sure that the lard 
in the pan is boiling before you put them in. By paying proper atten- 



I4a THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

tion to these simple directions, the fish will be served to table of a 
beautiful auburn tint. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

2, Irish Stew, — Cut the fat off half a dozen mutton chops, peel and 
divide into quarters 2 lbs. of potatoes, peel and cut into thin slices 3 
good-sized onions \ mix two-thirds of a tea-spoonful of salt with one- 
third of soluble cayenne ; rub the chops over with this on both sides. 
Place part of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the chops 
on the vegetables, covering with the remainder. Pour in water till both 
are covered; you may use veal stock or mutton broth, if you have it 
made, instead of water. Set your stewpan on a slow fire for two hours, 
now and then lifting the cover and pouring off the water attached to it 

4. Vermicelli Pudding, — Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break 
a stick of cinnamon into bits ; boil these in a pint of milk, then* sweeten 
with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve ; put \ lb. of vermi- 
celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; beat up the yolks of 
6 ^gs, add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an 
hour. 



MAY 6. 

' Uve well; and then^ Junv soon so/er thou die. 
Thou art ojage to claim eternity,* — Randolph. 

I. Scottish Hotch-potch. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 3. Ipswich PuDDiNa 

I. Scottish Hotch-potch, — Make the stock of sweet fresh lamb or 
mutton ; grate the outer rind of 2 or 3 young carrots, slice down as many 
more. Slice down also several young turnips, young onions, lettuce, 
and parsley. Have a full quart of Uiese things when finally shred, 
another of green peas and sprigs of cauliflower ; put in the vegetables, 
withholding half the peas till near the end of the process. Cut down 2 
or 3 lbs. of ribs of lamb into small steaks, trimming off superfluous fat, 
and put them to the stock. Boil well and skim carefully, add the 
remaining peas, white pepper, and salt ; and when thick enough, serve 
the cutlets in the tureen with the hotch-potch. 

3. Ipswich Pudding, — Take some bread-crumbs, steep in a pint of 
Bright's vegetable custard; pound into a paste \ pint of blanched 
almonds, and flavour with vanilla. Beat up the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs 
with \ lb. of white sugar pounded small Mix these together with \ lb. 
of butter melted ; stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably 
thick, place puff paste at the bottom and roimd the sides of your dish, 
pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 



M3 



MAY 7. 

•ZjT'tf thy better, let thy worst thoughts die.* — SlR WALTER Raleigh. 



1. Green Pea Soup. 

2. Lobster a la mode Francaise. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Blanc Mange and Raspberry 
Tarts. 



I. Green Pea Soup. — ^A good-sized tureen of soup cannot be made 
with less than a peck of peas. Half fill a large saucepan with water ; 
as soon as it boils put in 3 table-spoonfuls of salt, skim the scum off, 
and then put in the peas ; let them boil for five-and-twenty minutes, 
drain off the water. Put 3 quarts of broth, made from mutton or veal, 
but without herbs or spices, into a stewpan ; add the peas to this with a 
dozen leaves of mint, cover down tightly, and let all stew for an hour 
and a quarter ; season to your taste with pepper and salt, rub it through 
a coarse sieve with a wooden spoon, and serve it quite hot with toasted 
bread cut into dice. 

3. Lobster d la mode Francaise. — Pick the meat from the shell, and 
cut it up into small square pieces. Put the stock, cream, and seasoning 
into a stewpan, add the lobster, and let it simmer gendy for six minutes. 
Serve it in the shell, and have a border of puff paste. Cover it with 
bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter over, and brown before the fire. 

4. Blanc Mange tmd Raspberry Tarts. — Boil i oz. of pickled isinglass, 
tiU it is quite dissolved, in i^ pints of milk ; add the peel of half a 
lemon cut fine, half a stick of cinnamon broken up, a blade of mace, 2^ 
oz. of finely powdered white sugar; blanch and pound in a mortar 10 
bitter and \ oz. of sweet almonds, beat together in a spoonfiil of rose- 
water ; mix all these with the milk whilst quite hot, and let it simmer 
very gently for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, let it stand for 
half an hour, and then pour it into a mould 



MAY 8. 

*So live^ that toheit the mn 
Of your existence sinks in nighty 
Memorials sweet of mercies done 
May shrine your name in memory s light; 
And the blest seeds you scattered, bloom 
A hundredfold in days to come.' — BowRlNO. 



1. Green Pease Soup. 

2. Chump OP Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Fondue. 



1. Green Pease Soup. — ^Put \ lb. of butter at the bottom of a large 
stewpan. When hot, throw into it three pints of young green peas, two 



144 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

cabbage-lettuces shred fine, two cucumbers peeled and sliced, and two 
large onions sliced with their green. When nearly fried enough, stir in 
smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour in gradually three quarts of 
good veal broth. If you have a ham-bone, put it in ; if not, two or three 
slices of lean ham, also three or four mealy potatoes mashed. Let all 
simmer a couple of hours, skimming off any fat which may rise, and 
taking care the vegetables do not stick to the bottom. Before serving, 
remove the ham-bone, and throw in a cupful of boiled green peas, with 
the liquor they were cooked in. You may also add either fried or 
toasted bread, cut in small squares. 

2. Chump of Veal. — ^Wrap the joint in a cloth in order to have it 
white and delicate ; put it into a pot with a little salt, and cover it with 
water ; let it simmer gently for about an hour and a half after it comes 
to a boil When done, fry some thin rashers of ham or bacon, lay them 
round it on the dish, and serve it up with oyster sauce. 

4. Fondue, — ^Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; weigh 
the eggs in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Genybre cheese 
(good Cheshire has been tried, and found to answer very well), and a 
piece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs 
into a basin, beat them well ; add tiiie cheese, which should be grated, 
and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. Stir these 
ingredients together with a wooden spoon, put the mixture into a lined 
saucepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and 
soft Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a 
good sprinkling of pepper, and serve the fondue on a very hot silver or 
metal plate. Do not allow it to remain on the fire after it is set, for if 
it boils it will be entirely spoiled. 

Brillat Savarin recommends that some good Burgundy should be 
handed round with this dish. 



MAY 9. 

* Each om in her own house, and God in them all? 



1. Macaroni Soup. 

2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 

3. Brussels Sprouts. 



4. Cheesecakes and Blanc 
Mange. 



I. Macaroni Soup, — Break the macaroni into moderate-sized pieces, 
or, after it is blanched, cut into lengths of about 4 inches. Put into 
a saucepan about three pints of water, two or three ounces of butter, a 
small onion slit in four, two or three cloves, and half a dozen whole 
allspice. Make the water boil, and put in ^ lb. of macaroni ; when it is 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 145 

half or three parts done, drain off the water, take out the onion and 
spice, cut it in pieces, and put it into two quarts of boiling consommi. 
Season with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Let the macaroni be well 
done, but not enough to burst, or the soup will be spoiled. Serve it 
with some grated Parmesan cheese on a separate dish. 

2. BdUd Leg of Lamb, — Take care to immerse the joint in cold 
water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours 
and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli 
are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send 
this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of 
spinach dressed as above. 

3. Brussels Sprouts, — ^They should be put into boiling water, in 
which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved ; twenty minutes on 
the fire will be sufficient Drain them well, and serve with melted 
butter. 

4. Cheesecakes and Blanc Mange. — ^Boil a quart of milk, pour it quite 
hot into a basin, and mix well with it a table-spoonful of runnet In 
about an hour break up the curd, drain off the whey, and spread the 
curd on the back of a sieve till it is quite free from liquid. Dissolve 
2 02. of powdered sugar in i^ oz. of butter, then add the yolks of a 
couple of eggs, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a quarter of a nutmeg 
grated; have an ounce of currants well washed and picked; let all 
these be now mixed with the curd. Line your pattypans with light 
paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven for twenty- 
five minutes. 



MAY 10. 

• The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried. 
Grapple them to thy toul with hooks 0/ steel; 
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment 
Cfeach new-hatch^ d, un/ledgid comrade,* — Shakspeare. 



1. BoTLED Salmon. 

2. Lobster Sauce. 

3. Beef Kidneys. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Ground Rice Pudding. 



I. Boiled Salmon. — Put the salmon in cold water with salt ; put 6 oz. 
salt to each gallon of water ; bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the 
scum, and simmer gently till done, which will be when the meat sepa- 
rates easily from the bone. If done before wanted, keep it warm with 
hot doths laid over it, but do not let it remain in the fish-kettle. Serve 
on a hot napkin, the dish garnished with cut lemon and parsley, with 
lobster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. 



•r 

K 



146 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Lobster Sauce made in perfection with three parts cream to one of 
butter, with cayenne, salt, and cavice or coratch ; but the common error 
is not chopping the lobster small enough. When cut into large dice 
(as directed in most cookery books), it is scarcely a sauce, for the result 
is too much like eating fish with fish, 

3. Beef Kidneys, — Strip oflf the skin and remove the fat from the 
kidney, slice it rather thin ; season it with pepper, grated nutmeg, and 
saltj sprinkle over it equal parts of minced parsley and eschalots 
chopped very fine, or else with plenty of minced parsley only. Fry the 
slices over a brisk fire, and when nicely browned on both sides stir in 
a tea-spoonful of flour, and pour in by degrees a cup of gravy and a glass 
of white wine ; bring the sauce to boiling point, add a small piece of 
fresh butter and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice; garnish your dish 
(which must be quite hot) with fried bread. 

5. Ground Rice Pudding, — ^About a pint of milk ; boil in it 3 02. of 
ground rice, half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of halt a lemon 
chopped fine. Keep it well stirred while boiling, then beat up four 
eggs and two table-spoonfiils of powdered sugar. Mix these with the 
rice, butter a pie-dish, pour the ingredients into it, and grate nutmeg 
over the top. Bake for half an hour. 

— — 



MAY 11. 
* They are neifer alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts,^ — Sir P. Sidney. 



1. Vermicelli Soup. 

2. Roast Beef Hear?*. 



3. New Potatoes in Cream. 

4. Sweet Omelet. 



1. Vermicelli Soup. — ^Use four ounces of vermicelli for two quarts of 
soup. Take two quarts of veal consommi^ free from fat, make it boiling 
hot, and, as it boils, break the vermicelli rather small; throw it in 
gradually, that it may not clot together; keep it stirred occasionally 
from the bottom, and when done, season with salt and a very little 
cayenne. Use white consommt for white vermicelli soup, and brown 
consommh for brown soup. 

2. Roast Beef Heart, — ^The heart must be stuffed with the same 
materials used for fillet of veal, well basted with fresh butter, and allowed 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Make some beef gravy to serve 
with it, and melt a pot of red currant jelly in a gill of port wine, to be 
sent quite hot to table. 

3. New Potatoes in Cream, — ^When potatoes first make their appear- 
ance, and are about the size of a large marble, a very dainty dish can 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 147 

be sent to table by having a dozen or so of the young esculents fried in 
cream until they are of a deep auburn colour. 

4, Sweet Omdd, — In half a pint of new milk mix well a table-spoon- 
ful of fine flouTy then whisk together the yolks and whites of four eggs ; 
add these to the thickened milk. Over a clear fire see that the frying- 
pan be quite hot, and put into it as much fresh butter as will serve for 
frying the omelet ; aJ)out \ lb. will be enough. Pour into the boiling 
butter half the milk and eggs, and, when these are a little set, put four 
table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in the centre of the batter ; cover 
the jelly with the remainder ; and as soon as the upper portion is fixed, 
you should send the dish to table. A very few minutes are required 
for this acceptable and elegant preparation. 



MAY 12. 
* Human life is a constant want, and ougki to be a constant prayer,^ — S. OSGOOD. 



1. Broiled Shad and Caper 

Sauce. 

2. Stewed Breast op Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. GOUGERE AU FROHAGE. 



1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce, — Boil slowly some parsley, to let 
it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted 
butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. 
Boil up, and serve. 

2. Stewed Breast of Veal, — ^Put the joint into a stewpan two-thirds 
filled with water, next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon 
thyme, and an equal quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea- 
spoonfiil of powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped 
&ie, a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt ; 
let it stew veiy gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat, 
nm the gravy through a sieve ; and if it is not as thick as you desire, 
you may add butter and fiour till you have made it of the proper con- 
sistency; pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest 
by, as a good foundation for any made dish of white meat 

4. Gough-e au Frontage, — Put into a stewpan three-quarters of a 
tumbler of water, with 3 oz. of fresh butter and a little salt When the 
water boils, throw in 6 oz. of flour, and keep stirring till the paste is 
well cooked Then take the stewpan o£f the fire, and add to the 
mixture, first 4 yolks of eggs, then their whites beaten to a froth, then 
3 oz. of Goug^re cheese cut up into little bits. Mix the whole well 
together. 



148 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MAY 18.' 

• To matters of ** consciences^ first thoughts are best; in matters of *'prudaue** last 

thoitjrhts are best,* — Rev, Robert Hall. 



1. Soup a la Cleremont. 

2. Hashed Heart. 



3. Spring Cabbages. 

4. Cranberry Tart and Creau. 



1. Sotip d la Cleremont, — Peel from 12 to 18 small onions, cut off 
the stalk ends, cut the onions in slices, and separate each slice into 
rings ; fry them in butter, with a tea-spoonful of sugar. When of a nice 
brown, put them on the back of a sieve to drain and become dry. 
Put them into 2 quarts of veal consomme to boil gently for half an hour, 
carefully skimming off the grease. Cut the crumb of a rasped French 
roll into dice, or else into rings, with small cutters, to make them similar 
to the onions ; put the bits of bread into the tureen, pour the soup on 
them, and serve. 

2. Hashed Heart. — Cut the meat into slices, not too thick. Put 
what remains of the stuffing, jelly, etc., into sufficient beef gravy to 
cover the meat ; warm this up quickly, and when it is quite hot put in 
the slices ; but if you suffer the sauce to boil, you will render the meat 
too hard for mastication. 

3. Spring Cabbages, — ^These should be carefully looked over to remove 
worm or grub, and washed veiy clean. Have plenty of boiling water 
ready, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been mixed ; boil for twenty 
minutes ; and if due care be taken, the vegetables will retain their proper 
tint of green. 

4. Cranberry Tart and Cream, — ^Wash a quart of berries in several 
waters, dry them on a coarse doth, and pick them carefully. Mix them 
in a basin with a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered white sugar, and 
squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fruit. Put all into a pie-dish, 
have a light paste ready for the top, and bake for forty minutes. 



MAY 14. 

* If you tell your troubles to Cody you put them into the grave; they will netfer rise 
again when you have committed them to Him,* — Spurgeon. 



1. Pickled Salmon. 

2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Lemon Pudding. 



I. Pickled Salmon, — ^Take away the bone in the fish that comes 
from table, lay it in a nice dish, cover it to exclude the air. Put some 
of the liquor it was boiled in with an equal quantity of vinegar ; half an 



BILL OF FARE FOR MA K 149 

oz. of whole allspice ; half an oz. whole pepper ; 2 bay-leaves, and i 
tea-spoonful of salt : boil all together for ten minutes, and then stand to 
get cold ; pour it over the salmon, and it will be ready to send to the 
table in twelve hours. 

2. Boiled Leg of Lamb, — ^A leg of lamb is a delicate dish when nicely 
boiled. If whiteness is desirable, wrap it in a clean cloth ; only the 
liquor will then be spoiled for broth. Boil one of 5 lbs. gently for 
about an hour and a half. When you dish it, cut the loin into chops, fry 
them and lay round it Sauce : plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. 

4. Lemon Pudding, — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add 4 oz. of white 
sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take 
the flavour ; then put and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large 
lemon, and mix all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter warmed. Put a crust into 
a shaUow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. "When served, 
torn the pudding out of the dish. 



MAY 18. 

' Sobriety is the m^re inward ktM {so to spettX) which must support and grvi value 
io the whole; ar^ to tbop the metaphor, thai eternal and prevailing character, by which 
every part of a womatCs dress and aemeanour must be ever regulated,^ — Rev. James 
FORDYCE, D.D. 



1. Edinburgh Barley Broth. 

2. Green Goose. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Ipswich Pudding. 



1. Edinburgh Barley Broth, — ^Procure a shin of beef of about 8 lbs. 
weight, and have it divided into 4 pieces ; take half a lb. of Scotch 
bailey, and wash it free from husk or dust in lukewarm water ; select a 
large saucepan, put in your beef and barley, and cover them with cold 
water ; as soon as the water boils take away the scum, and then add a 
couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 onions, all chopped up ; 
you may now season the liquor with salt to your taste ; let it stew over 
a slow fire for three hours ; take out the meat, place it on a dish, and 
then pour the broth into an earthen vessel, where it should remain all 
night, to enable you to take away the fat Next day warm up the meat 
and soup, and serve it to table, either with or without the bouilli and 
vegetables, as your fancy dictates. 

2. Green Goose, — Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to 
the more mature bird, bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are 
used. Three-quarters of an hour's roasting will be sufficient Send it 
to table with a boat of gravy, another of apple sauce, and some newly- 
made mustard 

4. Ipswich Pudding, — Steep in a pint and a half of cream 3 oz. of 



ISO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fine white bread-crumbs. Pound into a paste half a pint of blanched 

almonds in a small quantity of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites 

of 4 and the yolks of 8 eggs, with \ lb. of lump sugar in powder. Mix 

these together with \ lb. of butter melted. Stir well over a slow fire 

till the mixture is tolerably thick. Place pu£f paste at the bottom and 

round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients^ and bake for half 

an hour. 

— ^ — 

MAY 16. 
' Wisdofn is oft times nearer when we stoop than when we soar.* — ^Wordsworth. 



1. Chantilly Soup. 

2. Stewed Kidneys. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. SousTER OR Dutch Pudding. 



1. Chantilly Soup. — Boil a quart of young green peas till quite tender, 
with 2 young onions and a small bunch of parsley. Rub them through 
a sieve, and pour 2 quarts of medium stock to them. Do not let it boil 
after the peas are added. Serve veiy hot. 

2. Slewed Kidneys. — Carefully remove the skin and vessels from the 
kidneys, and cut the meat into small portions ; put it into a stewpan 
with a bunch of mixed sweet herbs, and an onion tied up in a muslin 
bag. As soon as the meat is well browned, cover it with boiling water, 
and let it simmer for three hours. Just before serving, take away the 
bag, and sprinkle a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, in powder, over 
the meat. 

4* Souster or Dutch Pudding. — Melt i lb. of butter in half a pint of 
milk. Mix it into 2 lbs. of flour, 8 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of yeast ; add i lb. 
of currants, and \ lb. of sugar beaten and sifted. 



MAY 17. 

' Though lije has its venial trifles^ they cease to be innocent when they encroach upon its 

important concerns.^ — ^Mackenzie. 



1. Stewed Oxtails. 

2. Roast Pullet. 



3. Potatoes. 

4. Frangipane. 



I. Stewed Oxtails. — Cut these into joints and parboil them; put 
them into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them ; add a 
spoonful of salt, a spoonful of mixed powdered allspice, powdered 
mace, and soluble cayenne pepper, 4 cloves, and an onion chopped 
fine. Stew gently for an hour and three-quarters ; strain off the liquor, 
boil it up, and pour it quite hot over the meat Garnish with sippets 
of toast, and serve with a fresh lemon and Reading sauce. 



BILL OF JBARE FOR MAY. 151 

■ 

2. Eoasi PuUd, — Make a stuffing with the liver of the fowl or 
chicken, bruised fine, a little scraped bacon, parsley, and onion chopped 
fine, and a little panade ; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and 
bind it with the yolk of an egg. Cover the breast with barbs of bacon, 
or wrap the fowl in buttered paper ; roast it, and when done, brush it 
over with the yolk of an egg mixed with a litde clarified butter ; sprinkle 
it with bread-crumbs so as to form a crust all over it Brown well, and 
serve with a sharp sauce. 

3. Poiaioes. — Select the potatoes of one size, and scrape them quite 
free from skin ; remove all specks, and throw them into cold water ; 
clean them thoroughly, put them into an iron saucepan with a small 
quantity of water, and sprinkle them slighdy with salt Let them boil 
up quickly, then set them aside to simmer gently. Twenty to thirty 
minutes will cook them. Try them with a skewer, and when soft 
through, drain oflF whatever water may be lefb Take away the sauce- 
pan lid, and substitute a thickly-folded, delicately-clean clotL In five 
minutes serve them wrapped in a damask napkin. 

4. Fran^pane. — Beat up 6 eggs, and add 2 spoonfuls of flour, a 
spoonful of grated lemon-peel, another of powdered sugar, a table- 
spoonful of orange-flower water, and half a dozen macaroons, broken 
up. Put these and a pint of milk into a stewpan over a slow fire ; stir 
it well for twenty minutes ; have ready some pattypans lined with puff 
paste ; pour in the ingredients, and bake for twenty minutes. 



MAY la 



• There is a swed and holy blindness in Christian love, even as there is a blindness 
tflife, yea^ and of genius too^ in the moment 0/ productive energy ^ — SiK. THOMAS 
B&OWNE. 



1. Excellent Soup. 

2. Meat and Potato Pie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Sago Pudding. 



1. Excellent Soup, — ^Take a scrag of knuckle of veal, slices of un- 
dressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water ; 
simmer till very strong, and lower it with good beef broth, made the 
day betore, and stewed till the /meat is done to rags. Add a little 
cream and vermicelli, and gendy simmer. 

2. Meat and Potato Pie, — Mash some potatoes with pepper and salt 
and milk, and line a baking-dish with the same ; lay on slices of cold 
meat of any kind, with salt, pepper, butter, and ketchup ; lay on more 
potatoes, then more meat, then another layer of potatoes on the top. 
Bake it till it is quite hot through. 

4. Sago Pudding, — ^Boil a pint and a half of new milk with 4 spoon- 



1*52 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and cinna- 
mon. Sweeten to taste ; then mix 4 eggs, put a paste round the dish, 
and bake slowly. 



MAY 19. 

' Who love too muck, hate in the same extreme,^ — Pope. 

1. Lobster. | 3. Boiled Cucumber. 

2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton. | 4. Custard Pudding. 

1. Lobster, — Chop the meat of a good-sized lobster fine, and add to 
it lialf a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, the same quantity of soluble 
cayenne, and a spoonful of salt ; beat up 3 eggs, rub 2 oz. of butter 
into an ounce of bread-crumbs ; mix all well together, and boil in a 
well-buttered mould for an hour. Sprinkle the pea over it, and garnish 
with the small claws. 

2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton, — A shoulder of mutton, not too fet, 
well powdered with salt for four days, boiled and sent to table with 
plenty of onion sauce. 

3. Boiled Cucumber, — Peel and cut the cucumber in quarters, and 
take out the seed ; boil like asparagus, and serve on toast with melted 
butter. 

4. Custard Pudding, — If you cannot easily procure cream, boil a pint 
and a half of new milk, and when quite hot thicken it by stirring in 
finely-sifted flour. These must be well mixed; then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gUl of Cognac brandy or 
Madeira, and 5 eggs well beaten up. When all these materials have 
been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the 
sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour's baking in 
a moderately quick oven. 



MAY 20. 

• The smallest hair throws- its shadow,* — GOETHE. 



1. Soup a l'Aurore. 

2. Boiled Fowls. 

3. Sauce to ditto. 



4. Gooseberry Tart and 
Custards. 



T. SoupdPAurore, — This favourite Parisian soup can only be made 
when carrots are young. They must be scraped, cut into thin slices. 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY, 153 

and stewed in beef or veal gravy ; then forced through a sieve, seasoned 
with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 

3. Sauce to Boiled Fowls, — Cut thin slices of lemon into very small 
dice, and put them in melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over 
boiled fowls. 

4. Gooseberry Tart and Custards, — ^Remove the tops and tails, and 
pile the fruit in a pie-dish ; line the edge with crust ; put on the cover, 
and ornament the edges of the tart Bake for about three-quarters of 
an hour; and when done, dust some white sugar over it, and serve with 
custard (Brighfs Vegetable is the best). 



MAY 21. 

*Lcve doth ever shed 
Rich healing where it nestles — spread 
(yer desert pillows some green palm.*— Gy.^k\i> MasseY. 



1. Lobster Soup. 

2. Beef A LA Mode. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Gooseberry Fool. 



1. Lobster Soup, — Make a jelly-broth ; add to this the interior, coral, 
and pea of the lobster ; cut the meat of the claws and tail into small 
bits about the size of dice; strain the liquor, put in the meat, and 
serve quite hot Two lobsters are necessary for an ordinaxy-sized 
tureen. 

2. Beefd la Mode, — ^Frocure about ten pounds' weight of buttock, and 
cat it into bits of about a quarter of a pound each. Chop a couple of 
large onions very fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or fresh and well-clarified beef 
dripping. Whibt this is warming, cover the pieces of beef with flour ; 
put them into the pan, and stir them for ten minutes, adding a litde 
more flour by slow degrees, and taking great care the meat does not 
bum. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of boiling water, then add a 
couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of black pepper, and a couple 
of bay leaves. Let all this stew, on a low fire and very gently, for 
three hours and a quarter ; ascertain with a fork if the meat be tender : 
if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep dish. A well-dressed salad 
is the proper accompaniment oiBosufct^ la Mode, 

4. Gooseberry Fool, — ^Top and tail some green gooseberries ; to each 
pint of the pulp use \ pint cream and \ pint milk, or a pint of milk. 
After the beiries are top and tailed, put them in a jar with some 
moist sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of water ; set in a saucepan of boiling 
water, letting it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash ; then beat to a 



154 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

pulp through 3 cullender, and stir to every pint the equal prpportions 
of milk and creanL Add plenty of sugar, very gradually, to the goose- 
berries and milk. 



MAY 22. 

• Our acts our angels are, or good or ill. 
Our fatal shadows that walk by us stitl,^— John Fletchex. 



1. Hot Lobster. 

2. Roast Leg of Lamb and 

Mint Sauce. 



3. Spinach, etc 

4. Gooseberry Pudding 

AND Cream. 



1. Hof Lobster, — Separate the tail of the fish from the body, tear 
away the shell to which the lower claws are attached, abstract the 
interior, taking great care not to disturb the stomach, politely denomi- 
nated ' the lady ; ' split the tail in half, and remove the intestinal canal, 
a dark purple cord-like object, found in the centre of the flesh ; shred 
up the meat of the tail and claws ; mix all well together, squeeze the 
juice of two lemons over it, half a tea-spoonful of soluble cayenne, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and three ounces of fresh butter. Put these into a 
sauqepan ; let it be well stirred for a quarter of an hour, and serve it in 
a deep dish. 

2. Roast Leg of Lamb and Mint Sauce, — ^Baste well during cooking, 
and do not place too close to the fire at the first j brown it by drawing 
it nearer the fire. When it is done, sprinkle a little fine salt over the 

' meat, then empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a little 
boiling water, and strain this over the meat Serve with mint sauce. 

4. Gooseberry Pudding and Cream, — ^Take a pudding basin and line 
it with suet crust, about half an inch in thickness. Take a knife and 
cut round ; then top and bottom the gooseberries, fill the basin with 
the firuit, put in some sugar, and cover over with crust ; boil for about 
three hours. Serve with some cream. 



■o- 



MAY 23. 

• Make three guineas do the work of fve.'— -ROBERT Bu&NS. 



1. Gravy Soup. 

2. Veal Cutlets. 



3. Asparagus. 

4. Macaroni. 



I. Gravy Soup, — Chop up half a pound of gravy beef quite free firom 
fat, and put it into a pint and a half of water, co/d; let it simmer over a 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 155 

slow fire for half an hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your 
taste, put in four cloves, and keep it over tiie fire for another half hour; 
strain through a muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. 

2. Veal Cutlds, — Care should be taken that the meat be cut at least 
half an inch thick, and well flattened with the rolling-pin ; smear them 
over with ^g, and then cover them with finely powdered bread-crumbs. 
Fry them in fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both 
sides are well browned. Send them to table with a firesh lemon and 
some mushroom ketchup. 

4. Miuarani, — Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the 
liquid ; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, 
put it before the fire whilst you rub firesh butter over the top, and then 
cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes 
before sending to table. Some epicures have macaroni plain boiled, 
and instead of cheese use a good rich brown gravy. 



MAY 2 4. 

' Rt^ is essentiaHy vulgar^ and never vulgarer than wken it proceeds from mortified 
pridt^ disappointed amdUicnf or thwarted wilfulness,^ — Ha&tley Coleridge. 



I. Broiled Mackereu 
2- Haricot Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Macaroni. 



1. Braikd Mackerel, — A good-sized fish, with a hard roe, split, broiled, 
nibbed over with fresh butter, and eaten with Reading sauce, soluble 
cayenne, and salt, will be found by no means unsavoury. 

2. Haricot Mutton, — Cut up the remains ol a cold leg of mutton, 
and take off the fat ; slice onions, and fiy them with a little butter with 
the mutton till they are of a brown colour ; add the gravy ; stir in some 
floor, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In die meanwhile boil 
some carrots, turnips, and a head of celery, until nearly tender; slice 
them, and add them to the mutton a quarter of an hour before serving. 
Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup, give one boil, and 
serve. 

4. Macaroni. — 2 pints of milk, 3 oz. of macaroni, some lemon-peel, 
3 %gs, sweetened to taste; add some grated nutmeg and 2 table- 
spoonlols of brandy. 



156 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

MAY 2S. 
' Our content is our best having.^ — Shakspeare. 



1. Cod Sounds a la Trips. 

2. Brisket of Beep. 



3. Spring Cabbages. 

4. Raspberry TouRTB.' 



1. Cod Sounds d la Tripe, — Soak the sounds in lukewarm water till 
they are perfectly clean and white, then boil them in milk and water 
until quite tender. Have ready a small Spanish onion that has been 
boiled in two waters, cut the onion into half a dozen parts, then warm 
it up with the sounds in cream, seasoned with three-fourths of a spoonful 
of salt, a fourth of pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Serve with 
fresh mustard and a lemon. 

2. Briskd of Beef. — ^A brisket of beef of eight pounds will require 
somewhat more than half a pound of salt well rubbed in to com it 
The sooner it is salted after killing the better ; it should be turned and 
rubbed well with the salt for a week. Boil gently for three hours, and 
remove the scum as it rises. This is an excellent breakfast relish cold. 

3. Spring Cabbages. — ^These should be carefully looked over to 
remove worm or grub, and washed very clean. Have plenty of boiling 
water ready, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been mixed ; boil for 
twenty minutes ; and if due care be taken, the vegetables will retain 
their proper tint of green. 

4. Raspberry Tourie. — PufF paste having been laid in a proper tin, 
pour in enough jam to fill the dish, place strings of paste across, let it 
bake for half an hour, but never serve it hot 



MAY 26. 

* The game 0/ life 
Looks cheerful when one carries in onis heart 
The unalienable treasure.* — Coleridge. 



1. Soles with Cream. 

2. Lamb Cutlets and 

Cucumbers. 



3. Mashed Potatoes or 

Asparagus. 

4. Currant Dumplings. 



I. Soles with Cream. — Skin, wash, and fillet a pair of soles, and 
divide each fillet in two pieces ; lay them in cold salt and water, and 
bring gradually to a boil. When the water boils take out the fish, lay 
it in a very clean stewpan, and cover with half a pint of cream ; add a 
little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste, and simmer very gently 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 157 

for ten minutes, and put in the juice of half a lemon just before 
serving. 

2- Lamb Cutlets and Cucumbers, — Have ready a bright fire, lay the 
cutlets on a gridiron, and broil some eight or ten minutes ; season with 
pepper and salt ; garnish with crisp parsley. 

4. Currant Dumplings, — i lb. of flour ; chop 6 oz. of suet finely cut, 
mix it with flour, and add the currants after washing them ; then divide 
into several dumplings, and drop into boiling water. Serve with a cut 
lemon, cold butter, and crystallized sugar ; boil for about three-quarters 
of an hour. 



MAY 27. 
' L.atfe sought is good, but given wisought is better,^ — Shakspea&e. 

X. Asparagus Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Lamb Pie. 1 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 

1. Asparagus Soup, — ^To any good and well-seasoned jelly broth add 
asparagus tops boiled separately, and put into the tureen when served. 

2. Lamb Pie, — Cut the meat off" in slices from a loin of lamb. Put 
die bones into a saucepan with a spoonful of salt, half that quantity of 
pepper, and a pinch or two of dried sweet herbs j cover these with cold 
water. An hour and a half will be sufficient to draw a well-seasoned 
gravy ; strain this through a sieve. Brown the meat by frying it lightly 
in fresh butter ; line a pie-dish with light paste, place the lamb in the 
dish, then fill it with the gravy firom the bones ; squeeze half a lemon 
over it, put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 

3. Vegetables. — Cut off" the stalk, and strip off" the outer leaves, 
quarter, and wash them in plenty of water, and leave them to soak, top 
downwards, with a little salt in the water, for an hour or two. Put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a good handful of salt and a bit of 
soda, and boil them till the stalk feels tender. Cabbages require boiling 
from twenty to forty minutes, according to their age and size. Drain 
them through a cullender. Greens may be pressed between two 
plate& 

4. Ground Rice Pudding, — In a pint of new milk boil 3 oz. of ground 
rice, with half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon chopped 
fine; keep it well stirred whilst boiling, set the saucepan on the hob, 
and then beat up 4 eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar ; mix 
these with the rice milk ; butter a pie-dish, pour the ingredients into it, 
taking out the spice, and grate nutmeg over the top. Half an hour's 
baking will be enough. 



158 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MA^ 28. 

* //'/{/if be heavy on your hands. 
Are there no beggars at your gaUp 

Nor any poor about your lands f 
Oh, teach the orphan boy to read^ 

Or teach the orphan girl to sew ; 
Pray Heaven for a human heart. 

And let your selfish sorrow go* — ^Tennyson. 



1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce. 

2. Roast Ix)in of Veal and Boiled 

Bacon. 



3. Spinach AND Potatoes. 

4. Cabinet Pudding. 



1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce. — Scale, disembowel, and wash 
carefully, cut across the back twice or thrice, season it with pepper and 
salt, and let it remain in oil for half an hour. Broil it on both sides 
over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. 

2. I^oast Loin of Veal and Boiled Bacon. — Paper the kidney fat, 
dredge it well with flour, and put down to a bright fire. Be careful 
that it does not bum ; have ready some melted butter, pour it into the 
dripping-pan afler it is emptied, and then put over the veal, and serve. 
Garnish with slices of lemon. 

4. Cabinet Pudding. — Take the pudding basin, and after buttering it 
all round, lay some raisins that have been previously stoned, then nearly 
fill the basin with slices of bread and butter, the crust cut off, and in 
another basin beat up the eggs, and add milk, sugar, and grated nutmeg. 
Mix all well together, and pour the whole on the bread and butter ; 
then tie a floured cloth over it, and let it boil for one hour. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 



MAY 20. 
* Love is the virtue ofwoman,^ — Madame Dudevant. 



1. Oxtail Soup. 

2. Capon a la Duchesse. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Carrot Pudding. 



1. Oxtail Soup. — For a moderate-sized tureen a couple of tails will 
suffice. Joint them, and soak in lukewarm water. Chop up a couple 
of Spanish onions ; put these in a stewpan, with half a drachm of 
soluble cayenne pepper and the same quantity of allspice; add the tails, 
and pour in cold water till you have covered the meat, skim constantly 
as the water boils ; when the scum has ceased to rise, cover the stewpan 
close, and simmer for two hours. Strain the liquor through a sieve, add 



BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. 159 

3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a couple of glasses of sherry, 
season with salt to your taste, return the meat to the soup, warm up all 
together, and serve with toasted bread 

2. Capon a la Duchesse, — Truss the capon for boiling, and blanch it ; 
put it into a stewpan with parsley, green onions, and mushrooms 
chopped fine ; cover the breast with slices of bacon, moisten with fresh 
stock, add a little butter, pepper, and salt; simmer gently on one 
comer of the stove, and when done, strain some of the liquor, thicken 
it with yolk of egg and cream beat up ; add a little lemon juice to make 
it a little sharp, and mask the fowl, or serve with Dutch sauce. 

4. Carrot Pudding, — ^Scrape raw carrots very fine, till you have a lb. 
weight of them, grate white bread fine till you have an equal quantity ; 
in half a pint of cream beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs ; 
melt \ lb. of fresh butter in a pint of sherry and a couple of spoonfuls 
of orange-flower water ; add half a grated nutmeg, and sweeten to your 
taste. Mix all the ingredients well together, and pour them into a dish 
previously lined with a light paste. It will require one hour's baking 
in a moderately-heated oven. 



MAY 30. 

' Thy Ufe is no idle dream, hut a solemn reality. It is thy own ; it is all thou hast to 

front eternity wtth,^ — Carlyle. 

I. Spking Soup. 3. Cauliflower. 



2. Calf's Head, Tongue, and 
Brains. 



4. Gooseberry Tart and Custard. 



1. ^ringSoup. — ^Put in a clean stewpan some parsley, onions, chervil 
lettuces, and butter, to i pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. 
Season with salt and pepper ; when done, strain off the vegetables, and 
put two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock ; beat up 
the yolks of 3 eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, put it 
all together, and add to the soup. It takes about three-quarters of an 
hour to cook. 

2. Calfs Hetid^ Tongue^ and Brains {save the liqttor in which it is boiled). 
Thoroughly clean the head and remove the brains ; then soak in warm 
water, and the brains as well, for about an hour. Put the head into a 
stewpan with cold water enough to cover ; when it boils, add a litde 
salt Carefully skim as it boils until perfectly tender. Boil the brains, 
chop them, and mix them with melted butter, minced parsley, pepper 
and salt to taste. Skin the tongue, and put it in a small dish with the 
brains round it. 

3. Cauliflower. — Having picked them into small pieces, which is 



i6o TIIIXGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

absolutely necessary in order to remove the slugs with which this vege- 
table abounds, wash it thoroughly in several waters, and let it soak for 
full an hour before you dress it. Put it into a saucepan of boiling 
water, with a lump of salt, and when tender it will be done ; let it drain 
in a cullender, and serve it up with melted butter. Some persons may 
prefer to see them brought to table whole, but they must then take the 
chance of being helped, along with the cauliflower, to some unsightly 
insect, which would be sufficient to disgust the least delicate stomach ; 
besides, if properly boiled, and laid carefully in the dish, the pretty 
appearance of the vegetable is by no means destroyed by its having been 
divided. 



MAY 31. 

' Consult duty ^ not a/ents,*—l{AX(VAH. More. 



1, Soup A l'Aurore. 

2. Breast of Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Omelette Souffles. 



1. Soup a rAurore, — ^This favourite Parisian soup can only be made 
when carrots are young. They must be scraped, cut into Ain slices, 
and stewed in beef or veal gravy, then forced through a sieve, seasoned 
with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 

2. Breast of Veal, — Put the joint into a stewpan two-thirds filled with 
water, next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon-thyme, and an 
equal quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea-spoonful of 
powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a table- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt \ let it stew 
very gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat, run the 
gravy through a sieve, and, if it is not as thick as you desire, you may 
add butter and flour till you have made it of the proper consistency ; 
pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest by, as a 
good foundation for any made dish of white meat. 

4. Omelette Soufflk. — Break up half a dozen eggs, separate the whites 
from the yolks, into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon- 
peel and 4 of finely powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten 
minutes, add the froth to the yolks just before fiying. Melt \ lb. of 
butter in a pan, and put in the eggs ; as soon as they are quite set, 
slant the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you 
mean to serve well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet^ 
and brown the top with a salamander. 



DESSERT FOR MAY. 



i6i 



DESSERT FOR TtlE MONTH OF MAY. 
Centre-piece, a corbeille of fresh flowers. 



1. Ckeam Cake. 

2. Nesselkode Creau. 

3. Compote de Raisin (Confit). 

4. Compote de Peches (Confites). 

5. Biscuit Souffles. 

6. Pate Croquante a l'Italxenne. 

7. Bitter Almond Macaroons, 
S. Biscuits a la Canellb. 



9. Gelee de Bar. 

10. Marmelade de Poires. 

Dried Fruits, Nuts of Diffe- 
rent kinds, Fruit, Cheese, 
Fresh Fruits if obtainable, 
Plaisir, Olives, Iced Water, 

ETC 



I. CREAM cake. 

Take the grated rind of a large lemon or sweet orange, put with it 
12 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a table-spoonful of cognac, the yolks of 8 
eggs well beaten, and 4 oz. of very dry flour. Stir the whole together 
for a quarter of an hour, then add the whisked whites of 10 eggs, and a 
pint and a half of thick cream beaten to a snow. Put it into a cake- 
mould, and bake for an hour and a hal£ 

2. NESSELRODE CREAM. . 

Take a quart of sweet cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, 8 oz. of powdered 
and sifted loaf sugar, and a glass of Maraschino. Place this over the 
fire in a saucepan and thicken it, then let it grow cold ; put it into your 
ice^t, and freeze. Add 6 oz. of dried cherries, citron-chips, or candied 
orange flowers; mix well together, and pour it gently into a mould 
thickly lined with sweetmeats or dried fruits. Ice this, remove it from 
the mould, and serve it upon a dish surrounded with a whipped cream. 



3. COMPOTE DE raisin. 

Take a pound of grapes, white or black ; with a sharp knife open them 

at the side, and take out the pips. Place the grapes in an earthenware 

stewpan, with enough watef to cover them. Put a few vine leaves on 

the top, and let them come to a boil very slowly ; then take them up, 

add half a pound of loaf sugar to the liquor, boil it down to a syrup, 

skim it, replace the grapes, add a glass of eau-de-vie. Let it come to a 

boil, take out the grapes, and put them and the syrup into a glass 

desseit-dish. 

L 



i62 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



4. COMPOTE D£ PECHES. 

If you have not enough peaches to make a handsome dish of whole 
fruit, you may cut them in half and stone them, using the blanched ker- 
nels as an addition. Should you, however, be provided with an ample 
number, they are better dressed whole, extracting the stone or not at 
discretion. 

Scald the peaches for a few minutes, and then plunge them into cold 
water ; remove the skins, and lay the fruit in a preserving-pan with a 
breakfast-cupfiil of water, a little currant or other juice to add colouring, 
and 12 oz. of refined white sugar. Do them very slowly, and when 
tender, put them into your disL Boil down the syrup, let it cool, and 
pour it upon the fruit 

5. BISCUIT SOUFFLES. 

Take the whites of zo eggs, beat them to a snow, and add to them 
12 oz. of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and 3 oz. of candied citron 
chips beaten to a paste in a mortar, and moistened with white of egg ; 
or, in place of the citron, use an equal quantity of candied orange flowers 
reduced to a paste. Make up your biscuits in paper cases, glaze the 
tops with sifted loaf sugar, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutea 

6. PATE CROQUANTE A L*ITALIENNE. 

Beat in a mortar i lb. of blanched sweet almonds, i oz. of bitter 
almonds, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, and the white of an ^%%\ make this into a paste. Boil down 
a pound and a half of loaf sugar with half a pint of water; withdraw it 
from th6 fire ; add your almonds, etc. ; replace it on the fire, and con- 
tinue stirring until the paste adheres together and detaches itself from 
the sides of the saucepan. Be very careful that it does not bum. Turn 
it out into a dish, and when cooled enough, make it into small cakes, 
and bake gently. 

7. BirrER ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Beat in a mortar half a pound of bitter almonds and the whites of 2 
eggs ; add a pound and a half of sifted loaf sugar, and, if required, a 
litde more white of egg, to render it of the requisite moistness. Make 
it into very small balls, arrange them on paper, and place them in a 
gentle oven. When they are well set, glaze them, and return them to 
the oven to finish baking. 



DESSERT FOR MA Y. 



& BISCUITS A LA CANELLE. 



Beat the whites and yolks of i a eggs until they form s solid froth ; add 
a tea-cupfiil of orange-fio#er, rose, or laurel water, half an ounce of very 
finely-beaten dimamon, a. pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf 
sugar, and sufficient potato-flour to make it into a paste. Roll it out 
rather thin ; stamp it into biscuits of a fanciful form j put them upon 
greased paper ; place them in a moderate oven, and, when done and 
become cold, glaze them highly, and return them to the mouth of the 
OTCQ for a short time to set 

9. GELEE DE B.UI. 

Take a quarts of fine ripe currants, red or white ; cut them gently 
from their stalks with a pair of scissors, and carefully extract the pips 
with a quilL Hare ready a pound and a half of loaf sugar boiled with 
water to a strong syrup ; throw in your fruit, skim well, and boil for ten 
minutes. 

10. MARUELADE DE FOIRES. 

Put some dressing pears into spring water, and simmer them slowly 
until they are tender ; take them up, peel them, and scrape all the pulp 
away from the cores. To each pound of pulp put 1 3 oz. of loaf sugar ; 
place it in a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it well until it is quite 
iXiS, then put it into pots or moulds. The pears may be slowly baked 
instead of being boiled, if more convenient 



• CuUivate oat only Ikt corn-fields efyoar mind, but Iht fleasitrt-srauad) alsa,''- 
Wkatelv. 



PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

Meat : Beef— Mutton — Veal — Gtass-Lainb — Venison. 

Poultry : Pallets — Fowls — Chickens — Ducklings — Pigeons — lUbtnta. 

FisH: Carp— Cod— Conger Eels— Cc»b»—Dibhs— Dace— Dory— Eels— Floundeis 
— Garnets ^ H addocks — Ling — Lobsters — Mackerel ^ Mullet — Perch — Pike — 
Plaice— Prawns— Salmon— Skate— Tench— Trout-Tuibol-Whiting. 

VZGETABLES ! Aspii«gus— Beans (French and Kidney) — Beans (Wmdsor) — Cab- 
bages— Carrots — CaoliRowets — Chervil— Com Salad — Cucnmbeis — Endive (and 
through the year) — Lettuces — Peas — Radishes — Rhubarb — Spinach (Spring) 

Turnips. For Drying, Oiange Thyme — Mint — Tarragon — BumeL fvr 

Pukliiig, Garlic 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 
Cherries — Currants — Gooseberries — Raspberries — Slrawberties— Peaches — Nec- 
tarines — Apricots — Pine Apples — Pears— Melon — Rhubarb. 

t. Fish Sonp. 1 4- White Sauce. 

a. Fowls a la Pekiookd. S- Peas. 

3. Minced Veal. | 

I. Fish Soup. — BoU 4 lbs. of skate in 4 quarts of water till reduced 
to 2, with 6 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, paisley, a. carrot, 2 turnips, 
and a small head of celery. Codlings, whitings, eels, roach, dac^ 
flounders, or the pieces of any other fish, with the heads, tails, and fins, 
well cleansed, of any fish there may be to dress, may all be used to 
make the stock, in the same manner as the skate. If codlings or 
whitings are used, some of the fiesh should be reserved to make some 
lorcemeat-balls to put in the soup. 

When sufficiently boiled, strain it off; cut the flesh of the fish small, 
and chop the parsley, and make a purie of it by pounding it, which put 
into the soup, thicken with roux, season with salt and pepper, and serve. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 165 

2. Fowls d la Ferigord, — Fill them with veal, force or sausage meat, 
with some sliced truffles added to it Three or four days will be long 
enough for the fowls to hang in moderate weather. 

3. Minced Veal, — Cut a few slices of the cold veal (roast), very fine 
indeed, sufficient to make i lb., or rather more, weighed after being 
minced. Make a pint of bichamel (white) sauce, and put in the veal, 
with half a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-peel, and warm all gradually 
through. Dish it at the point of simmering, and garnish the dish with 
Med sippets of bread and forcemeat-balls. 

4. White Sauce, — It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this sauce, 
as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has 
boiled veal, fowls, or rabbit, or broth that may be in the house, or raw 
or dressed veal, or the feet and necks of chicken, will suffice. Strew 
with a little milk and water any of these, with some sliced onion, a 
piece of lemon-peel, some white peppercorns, a little pounded nut- 
meg or mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till the flavour be good ; 
then add a little good cream, a little flour, a piece of butter, and salt 
to the taste. Add a squeeze of lemon when taken ofi* the fire, stir- 
ring it well. Yolk of egg is often used instead of cream, but it is apt 
to curdle. 

5. Peas. — ^The time they will take depends on their age ; in general, 
about twenty minutes is enough. When done, strain them through a 
aeve, and pour them into a vegetable-dish over a good lump of butter. 
A few sprigs of green mint should be boiled and served up with the 
peas. 



JUNE 2. 

' The more we limit and concentrate happiness, the more certain we are 0/ 

securing it,'' — Deverant. 



z. Macaroni Sour. 

2. Roast Lamb. 

3. Mint Sauce. 



4. French Beans. 

5. Itauan Cream and Tartlets. 



1. Macaroni Soup. — Prepare the macaroni without breaking or cutting 
it; let it boil in the broth until it bursts, when it can be easily pulped ; 
then rub it through a sieve or tanmiy into a clean stewpan, add 3 or 4 
oz. of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir until it boils and is well mixed, 
adding about a quart more consommi^ or sufficient to make it of the 
required consistence ; season it with salt, a little cayenne pepper, and 
inace; just before serving, thicken it with 3 or 4 yolks of eggs mixed 
^ a little cream. 

2. Roast Lamd.^^LaLmh requires to be well roasted, as, if not suffi- 



i66 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

— ' 

dently done, it will fail to acquire that delicate taste so peculiar to it 
It is commonly dressed in quarters. Lamb should be well jointed or 
chopped by the butcher, as it is such a delicate sort of meat, that it 
becomes altogether disfigured if the carver is compelled to hack ^md 
pull it in pieces. In roasting, baste with its own dripping ; and after 
pouring off all the &t, serve it up in a hot dish with the gravy that 
remains after the fat is poured off. In serving up a fore-quarter, the 
cook should divide the shoulder neatly from the ribs, and after squeezing 
the juice of half a lemon on the ribs, cover the shoulder closely over 
again. It is usual to send up with lamb, mint sauce in a tureen. 

3. Mint Sauce. — Mix 3 heaped table-spoonfuls oi finely chopped mint 
with 2 of pounded sifted sugar, and 6 of the best vinegar ; stir it till 
the sugar is dissolved 

4. French Beans, — Prepare the beans as usual, by cutting finely ; boil 
them green and tender, and drain them thoroughly. For a large dish, 
put into a stewpan or saucepan 2 oz. of fresh butter, stir smoothly into 
it a small dessert-spoonful of flour ; keep these well shaken, and simmer 
gently till lightly browned ; put in pepper and salt, and then add a tea- 
cupful of veal stock by degrees, or the same quantity of cream, which is 
better ; put the beans in, and toss them till they are as hot as possible ; 
have the yolks of 2 fresh eggs well beaten ; and as the beans are being 
taken up, quickly stir them in ; dish as rapidly as possible j squeeze a 
lemon over them, and serve. 

5. Italian Cream and Tartlets. — Put into a pint and a half of boiling 
milk a tea-spoonful of coriander seeds, a quarter of a stick of cinnamon 
broken small, the peel of a lemon cut very thin, 3 oz. of finely-powdered 
sugar, and 3 or 4 grains of salt ; let all these boil till the milk is reduced 
one half; meantime beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, and thicken these with 
a litUe fine flour ; add this to the milk by degrees, stirring well all the 
while ; strain through a fine sieve into the dish you intend to send to 
table, and place it in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set Grate 
a little nutmeg over the top, and brown the siuface with a salamander. 



JUNE 8. 
* Woman^s influence is strong when rightly used,'' — Rev. W. B. MACKENZIE. 



1. Celery Soup. 

2. Boiled Fowls. 

3. Sauce to ditto. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Ice Creams and Gooseberry 

Pie. 



I. Celery Soup. — Cut 4 or 5 heads of fine white celery in small strips, 
wash them clean, drain dry, and boil in 2 quarts of consommi; when 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 167 

done, season with salt and a pinch of sugar. Put a few pieces of bread 
cut in dice into the tureen, and serve. 

3. Sauce to ditto, — Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into 
a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thjrme and 10 white 
peppercorns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then 
strain it, and thicken it with \ lb. of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of 
flour rubbed in it Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained 
into it, stirring it well Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white 
gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together. Add 
salt to your taste. 

5. la Creams and Gooseberry Pie, — ^Take 2 quarts of fresh milk. 
Scald the milk, stirring in 3 table-spoonfuls of com starch or arrow- 
root to give it body. These may be omitted if not at hand. Sdr 
well to keep from burning. Beat up 4 to 8 eggs, according to con- 
venience or as a rich dish is wanted, and pour the scalding milk 
on the ^[gs, stirring well. When cold, add sugar and essence of 
lemon, or extract of vanilla, to suit the taste. A very little salt also 
improves it Pour the cold contents into a deep tin pail or can 
holding about 3 quarts; put on the cover, and set in an ordinary 
wooden water paiL Pound up ice to the size of hen's eggs and less — 
some of course will be quite fine ; pack it round the tin can, mixing in 
about one pint of either medium or fine salt Pack this till it reaches 
nearly to the top of the can containing the mixture to be frozen, but be 
carefrd none enters it Now move the tin can or pail around by means 
of its bail, lifting the cover occasionally to scrape off the frozen cream 
on the inside, so that other portions may come in contact with the 
freezing surface. From fifteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient, and 
the dish may be served up at once or set away, without removing from 
the wooden pail, in a cool place for several hours, covering with a flannel 
cloth. 



JUNE 4. 
' WI^ is it so dtjkuit to hrve wisdy^ so easy to love too weUV — ^Miss Braddon. 



1. Salmon Collared. 

2. Boiled Leg OF Mutton. 
y Caper Sauce. 



4. Summer Pudding, and Sauce 

TO DITTO. 

5. Mashed Turnips. 



I. Salman Collared. — Split such a part of the fish as maybe sufficient 
to make a handsome roU, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, 
white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season 
it very high, rub it well inside and out Then roll it tight and bandage 



i68 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay 
leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till 
done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. 
Serve with fennel or anchovy sauce. 

4. Summer Pudding, — Moisten 5 table-spoonfuls of dry flour with a 
gill of new milk ; stir till quite smooth, then add f pint of boiling milk 
and 5 oz. of sugar ; boil five minutes ; beat 3 fresh eggs, and add to 
the batter while warm, but not boiling ; beat for ten minutes j stir in ^ 
pint of any kind of summer fruit Butter a basin, put in the pudding, 
dredge a cloth with flour, tie over securely, plunge the basin into boiling 
water, and boil fast for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and 
serve immediately, with sweet sauce poured over, in which add a little 
wine or brandy. 

Sauce to ditto, — Quarter lb. pounded sugar, do. of butter, and a wine- 
glassful of brandy or rum. Beat the butter to a cream, till no lumps 
remain; add the sugar and spirits, stir till the whole is thoroughly 
mixed ; and serve in a tureen, or pour round the pudding. 

5. Mashed Turnips. — ^The flavour of this justly favourite dish may be 
very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered loaf 
sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed from the 
water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the turnips 
should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table, by means 
of a small bit of butter or half a tea-cupful of cream. 



JUNE 8. 

* The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are icved, loved for oursdves- 
say rather ^ loved in spile of ourselves,^ — Victor Hugo. 



1. Vegetable Soup. 

2. Mackerel. 



3. Hashed Mutton. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Vegetable Soup. — Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and 
slice 3 turnips, chop up 3 heads of celery, and the hearts of 2 lettuces ; 
slice a Spanish onion thin. Put these, with ^ lb. ot butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of salt, and i ot black pepper, into a stewpan, set it on a slow 
fire, stir well to prevent burning ; and when the vegetables are nearly 
warmed through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is filled. 
Let all boil slowly for 3 hours and a half, then rub it through a hair- 
sieve ; if properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a 
rich yellow colour. 

2. Mackerel. — Cut off the heads, but do not rip them open ; gut and 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 169 

wash them dean, and dry them \ pull out the roe at the neck-end ; boil 
ity then bruise it with a spoon ; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little 
nutmeg, a little chopped lemon-peel, a litde thyme, some boiled parsley 
chopped fine, a little pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs : mix 
these together with the mashed roe, and fill the mackerel ; flour it, and 
broil it nicely. Send it up with a little ketchup or walnut-pickle, in 
plain melted butter. Mackerel, if boiled, should be put into cold water 
with plenty of salt When cold, they are nice soused in vinegar. 

3. Hashed Mutton. — Cut the least done parts of the cold mutton into 
small slices, carefully taking off the brown outside ; dust with flour ; fiy 
a few sliced onions ; when brown, put them in your stewpan, with a 
litde stock ; put a table-spoonful of currant jelly, with a dessert-spoonful 
of Harvey's sauce and a half glass of red wine ; stew these together 
till the onions are reduced to a pulp ; then withdraw the stewpan from 
the fire, put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer gently for half an 
hour. 



JUNE 0. 
The heart ought to give charity when the kand cannot.^-^'PASQmZK QUESNEL. 



1. Soup ET BouiLLL 

2. Lobster Salad. 

5. Baked Chicken Pudding. 



4. Carrot Pudding. 

5. Gooseberry Cream. 

6. Vegetables. 



I. Stntp et Bauilli. — ^Take about 2^ lbs. of brisket of beef, roll it up 
tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with 
2 lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef^ and a gallon of water ; let it 
boil slowly, skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, two 
carrots, two turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some 
whole pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slowly 
for seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup 
quite clear from the meat Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into 
wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut 
into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing 
the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and 
cayenne, remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate 
dish. 

3. Lobster Salad. — ^Wash the salad, and thoroughly dry it by shaking 
in a cloth. Cut up the lettuces, pour the dressing on them, and lightly 
throw in the small salad Mix all together with the pickings from the 
body of the lobster, reserving a few bits for garnishing. Separate the 
yolks firom the whites of two hard boiled eggs, chop the whites very 



17© THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from 
the inside. Arrange the salad nicely on a glass dish, and garnish with a 
few crayfish if handy. 

3. Baked Chicken Pudding. — Cut up two young chickens, and season 
with pepper and salt, and a little mace and nutmeg. Put into a sauce- 
pan with two large spoonfuls of butter, and water enough to cover them. 
Stew gently ; and, when about half cooked, take out and set them away 
to cooL Pour off the gravy, and reserve it to be served up separately. 
In the meantime make a batter, as if for a pudding, of i lb. of flour, 
stirred gradually into i quart of milk, 6 eggs well beaten, and added by 
degrees to the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a layer of chicken in 
the bottom of the pie-dish, and pour over it some of the batter; then 
another layer of chicken, and then some more batter, and so on, having 
a cover of batter on the top. Bake till it is brown. Break an egg into 
the gravy which you have set away, give it a boil, and send it to table 
in a sauce-tureen to eat with the pudding. 

4. Carrot Pudding. — ^To J lb. of carrot, when boiled and pulped 
through a sieve, mix \ lb. Savoy biscuit, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs 
well beaten, 6 oz. of butter beaten to cream, a little nutmeg, and 2 oz. 
of sugar, the rind of a lemon boiled till tender and pounded, and the 
juice of two ; bake in puff paste. 

5. Goosd>erry Cream. — Boil gooseberries in milk till they are quite 
soft, beat them up in a bowl, and force the pulp through a coarse sieve. 
Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste, then mix it with the pulp ; when 
quite cold, place it in glasses for use. 



JUNE 7. 
' Gcifd counsds observed are chains to grace, ' — Fuller. 



1. Plain Soup. 

2. Veal stewed with Peas, etc. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Castle PuDDiNa 

5. Currant Paste. 

6. Vegetables. 



I. P/ain Soup,^-TvLt 2 lbs. of bones into a stewpan with ^ lb. of 
calf s liver, and a small piece of ham or mutton. Add a little pepper 
and salt, two turnips, two carrots, a burnt onion, the bay leaves, thyme, 
cloves, and rice ; pour in a quart of water, and let it simmer for half an 
hour ; then add six pints of hot water, or the liquor in which mutton has 
been boiled, and let it stew gently for eight hours. Skim it frequently, 
and when done, strain it through a sieve, and serve. Haifa head of 
celery cut into pieces and boiled with it improves the broth, and a few 
slips may be served with it 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 171 

2. Veai stewed with Peas^ etc. — 3 or 4 lbs. of loin or neck of veal, 15 
young caiTots, a few green onions, a pint of green peas, 12 new potatoes, 
a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, i table-spoonful of 
lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
mushroom ketchup. Mode : Dredge the meat with flour, and roast or 
bake it for three-quarters of an hour ; it should acquire a nice brown 
colour. Put the meat into a stewpan, with the carrots, onions, potatoes, 
herbsy pepper, salt ; pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it, and 
stew gently for two hours. Take out the meat and herbs, put it in a 
deep dish, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and flavour it with lemon- 
juice, tomato sauce, and mushroom ketchup in the above proportion. 
Have ready a pint of green peas boiled separately ; put these with the 
meat, pour over it the gravy, and serve. The dish may be garnished 
with a few forcemeat-balls. The meat, when preferred, may be cut 
into chops, and floured and fried instead of being roasted, and any 
part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely savoury and 
good. 

4. Castle Pudding. — ^Take the weight of two eggs (in the shell) in 
butter, the same of powdered sugar and flour ; about half melt the butter 
in a basin before the fire, beat the eggs very well, mix the butter and 
sugar together, then the eggs and a little grated lemon-peel, then add 
the flour; butter some cups like coffee-cups with flat bottoms, fill them 
a little more than half-full, and bake them about half an hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve with raspberry vinegar sauce. 

5. Currant Paste. — Strip your fruit from the stalks, and place it over 
the fire for a quarter of an hour in a stewpan. Pass it through a sieve, 
boil it another quarter of an hour, add i^ lbs. of finely powdered loaf 
sugar to each pint of pulp, stir it over the fire for five minutes longer, 
and make it into any form preferred. Dry slowly in a very gentle oven, 
and dust it with sifted sugar. 



JUNE 8. 

* Employment is Natures physician.^ — Galen. 



1. WnmNGs. 

2. Mutton Cutlets a la 

Italienns. 



3. Spinach. 

4. Brighton PuDDiKa 



I. Whitings. — Choose large whitings ; take out the gills, eyes, and 
entrails, and remove the blood from the backbone: Wipe them dry, 
and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for 
a ni^t, then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four 



172 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

days they will be fit to eat. Skin and rub them with egg, and strew 
crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter 
until brown enough. Serve with egg sauce. This will prove excellent 
in the country especially, where there is no regular supply of fish, A 
haddock of 2 or 3 lbs. weight, done the above way, is very good. 

2. Mutton Cutlets d la Italienne. — Cut out a cudet between each 
bone. Rub a saucepan over with butter, lay them in, and about a 
quarter of an hour before dishing the dinner iry them a light brown, 
and pour an Italian sauce in the centre. French beans, peas, stewed 
lettuce, spinach, or mashed turnips may be placed in the centre, when 
in season. 

3. Spinach, — Few vegetables require more care in their preparation 
for table than spinach. It should be quite fresh, in the first place, and 
taken leaf by leaf firom the stalks ; by this means a peculiar vegetable 
fibre, resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, will be 
avoided. Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain 
through a cullender, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a 
good-sized saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water ; 
as soon as it boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, 
which, being light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced 
into the water with a large fork or spoon. Ten minutes' boiling is 
enough. Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden 
trenchers, and squeeze out as much water as possible; then chop it 
quite fine, after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As 
it is essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stew-pan with 
the juice of a lemon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. 
Let it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. 

4. Brighton Pudding. — ^Take 3 eggs, ^ lb. of sugar, J lb. of flour, J lb. 
of butter, and the peel of a lemon finely minced. Beat the sugar and 
eggs for tii^'enty minutes. Oil the butter, and mix it and the flour in at 
the last. Steam the pudding for one hour. Serve without sauce, only 
with preserve. 

— — 

JUNE 9. 

' We are amused through the intellect, but it is the heart that saves us 
Jrom ennui,^ — Madame Switchine. 

1. Pot AU Feu. I 3. Bread and BuTTsa FuDDiKa 

2. Lamb Chops and Asparagus. | 4. Vegetables* 

I. Pot au Feu, — Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water, set it over 
a slow fire, and let it gentiy boil, carefully taking off the scum that will 
rise to the top. Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scimi to 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE, 173 

rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, 
which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in 
slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in four pieces. 
Pat them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the 
water boils away too much, add a litde hot water in addition. A few 
bones improve tlie soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot 
very closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little ; it facilitates 
the operation. 

3. Lamb Chops and Asparagus. — Lamb chops carefully fried in ^%% 
and bread-crmnbs, and sent to table with asparagus, will be found a 
veiy palatable dish. 

3. Bread and Butter Pudding. — ^Boil gently for five or ten minutes a 
pint of good milk, with the peel of half a lemon, a little cinnamon, and 
a spoonful of almond or orange-flower water, then sweeten with good 
sugar ; break the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three into a basin ; 
beat them well, and add the milk ; beat all well together, and strain 
through a hair-sieve ; have some bread and butter cut very thin, put a 
layer of it in a pie-dish, and then a layer of currants, and so on till 
the dish is nearly full ; then pour the custard over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 



JUNE 10. 

• The surest way not to fail is to determine to succeed.^ — SllERIDAN. 

1. Dried Salmon. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hotch-potch. | 4. Eve's Pudding. 

I. Dried Salman. — ^Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs 
boiled hard and chopped large ; put both into \ pint of thin cream, and 

2 or 3 oz. of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it, and 
stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner 
edge of a dish, and pour the above into it 

Dried salmon is also eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed 
through with egg sauce and mashed potatoes ; or it may be boiled, 
especially the bit next the head 

3. Hotch-potch. — Cut into chops, with as little fat as possible, about 

3 lbs. of the best ribs of neck of mutton, with a quarts of water, 12 
young onions, 2 breakfast-cuphils of green peas cut into small pieces, 3 
do. turnips, 3 do. carrots, i^ do. of grated carrots, the white part of 2 
stock lettuces, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Simmer all for two hours, 
skimming off the fat occasionally, and half an hour before serving add 
a cupful of peas, salt and pepper to taste; if too thick, thin it with a 
little hot water. Serve in a tureen. 



174 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Ev^s Pudding. — ^Pare and chop half a dozen apples, take 6 oz. of 
finely-grated bread-cnunhs, the same weight of picked and washed 
cuzrantSy 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt^ and a qoazter of a 
nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen ^Qgs beat up, a table-spoonful of 
lemon-peel cut veiy fine, and a tumbler of brandy. Mix all these well 
together. Boil in a cloth for six houiSi and pour melted butter over 
the pudding just before serving. 



JUNE 11. 

' Wi an all a land of chamdeons^ taking the hue of our moral clutracter from thou 

who are about us.^ — ^LocKE. 



1. PiLLBTBD Soles. 

2. Boiled Leg OP Lamb. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding. 

5. Canary Pudding. 



1. Filleted Soles. — Fillet 2 or 3 soles, stew the heads and bones in 
about \ pint of water ; put the fillets in a flat pan in about a wine-glass 
of this water, simmer for two minutes and a half each side. Make a 
sauce with 2 oz. butter, the remainder of the water, a little cayenne and 
salt, and chopped parsley, thickened with arrowroot ; add the juice of 
half a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of eschalot vinegar, and pour over the 
fish. 

2. Boiled Leg of Lavih. — ^Take care to immerse the joint in cold 
water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours 
and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli 
are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send 
this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of 
spinach. 

4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding. — ^Turn 3 quarts of new milk, warm from 
the cow (or made lukewarm), with a quart of buttennilk ; drain ofi* the 
whey through a sieve, and when the curd is dry pound it in a marble 
mortar, with \ lb. of fine sugar, i oz. of sweet and 2 or 3 bitter almonds, 
and a lemon boiled tender. When these are well beaten and mixed 
together, add 2 oz. of grated bread, \ lb. of butter melted, the juice of 
a lemon, a little salt, a tea-cupful of thick cream, 5 eggs with but half 
the whites, well beaten, and a glass of rose-water ; stir well, and bake in 
a dish or cups well buttered ; turn out carefully, and sift sugar over it 

5. Canary Puddir^, — ^Take the weight of 3 eggs in sugar and butter, 
the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of i small lemon, 3 eggs. Melt 
the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil ; stir to this the 
sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel^ and gradually dredge in the flour, 
keeping the mixture well stirred ; whisk the eggs, and add them to the 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 175 

• 

padding; beat all together till thoroughly blended, then put into a 
battered mould or basin, and boil for two hotu's. Serve with sweet 
sattc& 

— (y — 

JUNE 12. 
• Beware of entrance into quarrel,^ — Shaespeare. 

1. Fish Salad. I 3. Bread Hasty PuDDiMa 

2. Sweetbreads with Peas. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Fish Salad may be made with the remains of turbot Cut the fish 
into very thin slices ; have also a young cos lettuces, which separate into 
leaves and cut lengthwise ; add a few leaves of tarragon, a little chervil ; 
season with a little pepper and salt, 6 or 8 spoonfuls of salad oil, and 2 
of vin^ar, or according to taste ; mix well together, turn into a salad 
bowl, and serve. The above salads are excellent for dinner upon a hot 
summer's day. 

2. Sweetbreads with Peas, — Put 3 heart sweetbreads into warm 
water, to disgoige the blood, and make them as white as possible ; 
blanch them firm, and braize them. When done, take them up and 
mask them with some good white bkhamel. Cut some French beans, 
boiled nice and green, into leaves and stalks ; make a border round 
each sweetbread with them, and a neat sprig in the middle ; put them 
into a stewpan, as they are done, to keep hot ; when wanted, cover the 
bottom of the dish with yoimg peas or asparagus, and the sweetbreads 
on them. Garnish with sippets of fried bread. 

3. Bread Hasty Pudding. — Set a quart of new milk on the fire, and 
when scalding hot put in grated bread, till it is about the thickness of 
common hasty pudding. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a little salt ; 
take out a few spoonfuls of the milk before you put in the bread, to mix 
with them ; then put it to the bread and stir it over the fire two or three 
minutes. It must not be suffered to boiL Eat with sugar and cold 
batter. It is very good without the eggs. 



JUNE. IS. 

*All love is sweety given or returned? — Shellet. 



I. TCMOT. 

2. Pigeons. 

3. Loin of Mutton en Fricandeau. 



4. Baked Batter Pudding 

WITH Fruit. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. TMftd. — ^Two hours before you intend to cook it, let it be put 
into fresh spring water ; and just as you are about to put it into the 



176 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

kettle, make a couple of incisions half-way down to the bone, upon the 
back of the fish. This will prevent the cracking of the skin, as the fish 
swells in hot water. Fill your kettle three parts with cold water, and 
then throw in a liberal handful of salt ; place the turbot upon a tin or 
earthenware strainer, and put it into the water ; as it begins to boil 
take off the scum, and then set your kettle by the side of the fire, so 
that the water boils very slowly for twenty minutes or a quarter of an 
hour, according to the size of your fish. A turbot of 9 lbs. will require 
at least twenty minutes, and so in proportion. Take it out of the water 
very carefully, and place it on a coarse cloth ; then cover the dish you 
mean to send to table with a napkin, place the turbot upon it, strew 
whole capers over it, and serve with lobster sauce and slices of lemon. 
You may, if you prefer it, strew the fish with the pea of lobster forced 
through a sieve. 

2. Pigeons. — ^These birds cannot be dressed too firesh ; let them be 
stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs, roast for five- 
and-twenty minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 

3. Loin of Mutton en Fricandeau. — Trim and lard a loin of mutton 
and braize it, or put the trimmings of the mutton into a stewpan that 
will hold the loin, with some beef and veal ; on this place the loin, also 
a few carrots, onions, and a bunch ot sweet herbs ; cover with broth, 
and stew gently until done ; drain, and glaze the loin well. 

4. Baked Batter Pudding with Fruit. — ^This pudding is very good 
baked with fresh fruits, adding 4 spoonfuls of cream and a tea-spoonful 
of powdered ginger. 



JUNE 14. 

' The constitution of the female mind shows that laving obedience is her prescriheJ 
course. Her happiness is never to be found in ctssuming the reins^ or strivmg to com* 
mand.^-^RBY. W. B. MACKENZIE. 



1. Grey Mullet. 

2. Brown Minced Veal. 

3. Pigeon Pie. 



4. Batter Pudding with Eggs. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Grey Mullet. — Put this fish into cold water and bring gradually to 
a boil, if very large ; if the fish is small, put it in boiling water. In 
either case, to each gallon of water put \ lb. of salt Serve with plain 
melted butter and anchovy sauce. 

2. Brown Minced Veal. — Cut the meat off the bones, and put them 
into a saucepan with a quart of water ; stew till you have about ^ pint 
ol liquor left Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat and 
lean, small ; season with pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 177 



a little peel ; add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, warm it up 
in the same manner as the white mince, and garnish with sippets. 

3. Pigeon Pie, — Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well 
flattened and cut to the size ; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and 
soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuff half a dozen pigeons with bread- 
oombs well mixed with sweet herbs and z^^ \ rub the birds over with 
fresh butter, and place them on the meat, filling up the spaces with the 
yolks of eggs boiled hard ; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you 
nearly reach the brim ; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven 
for an hour and a hal£ Before sending to table, make a small hole in 
the oust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot 

It is usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in 
the centre of the top paste. 

4. Baiier Pudding with Eggs. — Mix i lb. of flour with a pint of milk ; 
beat it till quite smooth ; add a little salt and some powdered ginger. 
Boil it in a doth one hour and a quarter. If prepared ginger be used, 
not quite a tea-spoonful ; if the common powdered ginger, double the 
quantity. 



JUNE 18. 

' £2^17 wtfs should knew the exact state of her husband* s finarueSy understand his 
pians, andaid hifttf if possible^ with her counsds.* — ^Professor Wilson. 



1. Broiled Salmon. 

2. PorkKabob. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Bakewell Pudding. 



1. Broiled Salmon. — Cut the fish in slices an inch thick, and season 
with pepper and salt Lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well 
battered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow 
^ six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 

2. Pork Kaboh. — Select 4 pork chops, not too fat ; peel 2 dumpling 
apples, and cut 2 slices from the centre of each, avoiding the core ; cut 
a Spanish onion into slices, select 4 of the largest ; attach with small 
skewers to each chop a slice of apple and a slice of onion ; fasten them 
together with twine, and roast before a bright fire for half an hour, 
basting welL Serve them quite hot, with some firesh mustard, soluble 
cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 

4- Bakewell Pudding. — Cover a dish with thin puff paste, and lay on 
it any kind of jam an inch thick ; then beat up the yolks of 8 eggs and 
the idiites of 2, with \ lb. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, and almond flavour 
to taste; pour this mixture on the jam, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. 

M 



lyS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JUNE 16. 

' Alas ! haw sddom it is that the sotd is so still that it can hear when Cad speaks to it!* 

— Fenelon. 



1. Red Mullet. 

2. Lamb Pie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Aunt Amelia's Pudding. 



1. Red Mullet. — ^This fish should never be plain boiled; it can be 
had at any time, but in summer is more plentiful. Clean it, but leave 
the inside, take out the gills, put the fish in oiled paper, and bake them 
gendy about twenty minutes. When done, take tiie liquor that has 
come from the fish, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flower, i 
glass of sherry, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, cayenne and salt 
to the taste, and let it boil two minutes, then serve in a tureen. The 
fish may be served either with or without the paper cases. 

2. Lamb Pie. — Cut the meat off in slices fi'om a loin of lamb. Put 
the bones into a saucepan with a spoonful of salt, half that quantity of 
pepper, and a pinch or two of dried sweet herbs ; cover these with cold 
water. An hour and a half will be sufficient to draw a well-seasoned 
gravy ; strain this through a sieve. Brown the meat by frying it lightly 
in fresh butter ; line a pie-dish with light paste, place the lamb in the 
dish, then fill it with the gravy from the bones ; squeeze half a lemon 
over it, put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 

4. Aunt Amditis Pudding. — Three pints of milk, 8 eggs, 8 heaped 
spoonfuls of sifted sugar, \ lb. of butter. Boil milk as if for a custard ; 
thicken with flour to the consistency of ordinary starch. Beat yolks 
of the eggs well, whip white to a froth, add the sugar to the yolk, and 
the frothed whites to that The butter is to be melted into the milk 
while boiling. Mix the whole together into a smooth batter, flavour it 
with lemon, and pour into plates lined with rich paste. Bake slowly. 



JUNE 17. 

' Be goody and fear for naught that slanderous speech endangers ; 
Who bears no sin himsdf^ affords to bear a stranger's.* — ^Ruc&E&T. 



1. Soup A LA Reine. 

2. Stewed Rump of Beef a la 

Daubb. 

3. Sauce TO ditto. 



4. Boiled Arrowroot Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 

6. Strawberry Creak AND Tart- 

lets. 



I. Soup d la Peine. — Stew 4 lbs. of the scrag or knuckle of veal, with 
a thick slice or two of lean ham^ a faggot of sweet herbs, 2 middle-sized 
carrot, the same of onions, a large blade of mace and half a tea-spoon- 
ful of white peppercorns, in 4 quarts of water, until reduced to about 5 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 179 

pints. Then strain the liquor, and set it by until the fat can be taken 
entirely from it Skin and wash thoroughly a couple of fowls, or 3 
young pullets, and take away the dark spongy substance which adheres 
to the insides ; pour the veal broth to them, and boil them gendy from 
three-quarters of an hour to an hour ; then lift them out, take off all the 
white flesh, mince it small, pound it to the finest paste, and cover it with 
a basin until wanted for use. In the meantime, let the bodies of the 
fowls be put again into the stock, and stew gently for an hour and a 
half; add as much salt and cayenne as will season the soup properly, 
strain it off when sufficiently boiled, and let it cool; skim ofiF every 
particle of fat ; steep, in a small portion of it which should be boiling, 
4 oz. of the crumb of light stale bread, sliced thin ; and when it has 
simmered a few minutes, drain or wring the moisture from it in a clean 
doth ; add it to the flesh of the chickens, and pound them together until 
they are perfectly blended ; then pour the stock to them, in very small 
quantities at first, and mix them smoothly with it; pass the whole 
through a sieve or tanuny, heat it in a clean stewpan, stir to it from i 
to i^ pints of boiling cream, and add, should it not be sufficiently thick, 
i^ oz. of arrowroot, quite free from lumps, and moistened with a few 
spoonfrils of cold milk or stock. 

2. Stewed Rump of Beef a la Dauhe. — Take out the bone from a 
romp of beef, and trim it neatly ; cut some fat bacon into pieces about 
a quarter of an inch square, and two or three inches long ; chop fine 
a handful of washed and picked parsley and some sweet herbs, such 
as basil, marjoram, thyme, savoury, with some bumet and tarragon if 
approved, when in season, observing to proportion the quantities to the 
pungency of the several sorts used ; season them with pepper, salt, a 
little ground allspice, and pounded mace. Make some holes all over 
the surface of the beef with a sharp-pointed knife, about as deep as the 
bacon is long ; dip the pieces of bacon into an egg beaten up, then roll 
them in the seasoned herbs, and stuff them into the holes. Tie up the 
beef with either string or tape, and either braize it or stew it very gendy 
for four or five hours in* the stock-pot. Boil 4 or 6 Spanish onions with 
the beef in the stock-pot to serve round it 

3. Saiue to ditto, — Cut some carrots and turnips into corks, or into 
round balls with a scoop ; boil them in some good stock with a pinch 
of sugar ; when done, thicken it with some brown roux; add a little 
ketchup and vinegar to flavour it, and season with pepper and salt Place 
it OQ one comer of the stove, to sinmier gently and throw up the grease. 
The sauce should be moderately thicL 

IVhen the beef is done, take it up, cut off the string, drain, and glaze 
it «dl ; lay it on the dish, glaze the onions, and place them round ; pour 
in the sauce without covering the onions, and serve. 



i8o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. BoiUd Arrowroot Pudding, — ^Set a pint of milk on the fire ; mix 2 
oz. of arrowroot with a little cold milk quite smooth, like starch ; when 
the milk is near boiling, pour it upon the arrowroot, stirring all the 
time ; return it into the pan, and set it on the fire a few minutes to thicken, 
stirring it briskly, but do not let it boil ; when cold, add 3 eggs well 
beaten and a little salt ; boil it an hour in a buttered basin. Serve with 
melted butter and currant jelly. 

6. Strawberry Cream and Tartlets. — ^A quart of cream will be required 
for two pottles of strawberries ; the small pines should be selected, as 
possessing most flavour. Carefully pick away the leaves and stalks, and 
mash up the fruit in a basin ; boil the cream, and add the firuit whilst it 
remains hot ; sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste ; let it become 
quite cold before you put it into glasses. 



JUNE 18. 
' Onis thoughts are heard in heaven,^ — ^YouNG. 

1. Flounders. 4. Vegetables. 

2. Parsley and Butter. 5. Arrowroot Pudding. 

3. Green Goose. 

I. Flounders, — Let the fish be carefully cleaned, the fins cut off, then 
washed, and well dried in a cloth ; put a handful of salt into the water 
in which they are boiled ; the time they take must be regulated by their 
size and thickness ; serve them with parsley and butter. 

3. Green Goose, — Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to 
the more mature bird, bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are 
used. Three-quarters of an hour's roasting will be sufiicient Send it 
to table with a boat of gravy, another of apple sauce, and some newly- 
made mustard. 

5. Arrowroot Pudding, — ^To a pint of boiling milk add 2 oz. of arrow- 
root, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk ; set it on the fire 
to boil, constantly stirring it; when cool, add 3 eggs, a few bitter 
almonds blanched and beaten, lemon-peel, and sugar; bake in a mode- 
rate oven. 

— — 

JUNE 19. 

* One always has tinu enough^ if one wHl apply it wdV — Goethe. 



1. Scotch Barley Broth. 

2. Leg of Mutton Farced. 

3. Bakewell Pudding. 



4. Blanc Mange. 

5. Vegetables. 



I.' Scotch Barley Broth, — ^Throw the barley into some dean water ; 
when thoroughly cleansed, place it with a knuckle of veal in a stewpan ; 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. i8i 

■ ■ 

arver it with water ; let it boil very slowly ; add the onions, and simmer 
it slowly for two hours, skimming it well ; then add the celery and the 
turnips cut in slices, or any shape you please ; add as much salt as 
required, and let it simmer for an hour and a half, skimming it con- 
stantly ; then serve. If it is intended to serve the veal with it, take 2 
pints of the broth ; put it in a stewpan over a clear fire ; add 2 spoon- 
fills of flour, stirring the broth as you shake it in until it boils ; then add 
a little pepper and cayenne, and a glass of port wine. Boil for ten 
minutes, and strain it over the veal in a hot dish. 

2. Leg of Mutton Farced, — Raise the skin all round the leg ; take out 
the lean part and chop it small, with an anchovy boned ; add a few 
sweet herbs, such as chopped parsley, marjoram, thyme, and a little 
onion, the rind of a lemon grated, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a few 
breadcrumbs ; make these into a forcemeat, with 3 eggs, and a large 
glass of port wine ; fill up the skin with the forcemeat, leaving the bone 
and shank in its place, when it will appear like a whole leg. Lay it in 
a baking-pan or dish, with a pint of red wine under, and bake it in a 
moderate oven for two hours, basting it occasionally with the wine. 
^Vhen done, dish the leg, skim the fat from the gravy in the dish, add 
some brown sauce to it, mix, and mask the leg with it 

3. Bakewell Pudding. — ^The yolks of 3 eggs and the white of i to be 
well beaten with \ lb. of butter, sugar to taste, and the almond flavour also 
to taste ; these are to be mi^ed the night before the pudding is required. 
Any sort of jam or marmalade will do to lay over the puff paste, and the 
pudding is to be baked in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. 

4. Blanc Mange. — ^Boil 2 oz. of isinglass in i^ pints of water half 
an hour; strain it to i^ pints of cream; sweeten it, and add some 
peach-water, vanilla, or a few bitter almonds ; let it boil once up, and 
put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, put a little 
less isinglass. Observe to let the blanc mange settle before you turn it 
into the moulds, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and 
be on the top of the blanc mange when turned out Brandy may be 
added if liked. The moulds should be in cold water two hours before 
use. 



JUNE 20. 

*Chfeyour tongue mort holiday than your hands or eyes? — Rabbi Ben Azai. 



1. Sole au Gratin. 

2. Loin of Mutton. 

3. Asparagus Pudding. 



4. Almond Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 



X. Sole au Gratin. — ^The French have an oblong dish for the purpose, 
mostly in silver, so that it may be served in the dish in which it is 



i82 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent its 
sticking ; chop some shalot and parsley ; spread lightly ; add salt and 
pepper, a little wine or brandy. Lay the sole upon it, and spread the 
same things over the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter, with 
some button mushrooms or a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
and a little gravy that you xnay have by you. Rasp over some bread- 
crumbs, and cook gently in the oven for about half an hour; it will 
take longer if a thick fish. Only one sole can be cooked at a time. 

3. Asparagus Pudding. — Cut up, about the size of peas, the green 
tender parts of asparagus, \ pint ; put them into a basin with 4 eggs 
well beaten, x table-spoonful of ham minced very finely^ 2 table-spoon- 
fuls of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and i oz. of butter. Mix all 
well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding 
of the consistency of thick batter. Put it into a pint buttered mould, 
tie it down with a floured cloth, place it in boiling watery and let it boil 
for two hours ; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour 
melted butter rounds but not aver the pudding. 

Green peas substituted for asparagus, may be made in exactly the 
same manner. 

4. Almond Pudding. — ^Blanch 6 oz. of sweet almonds and 12 bitter 
ones; beat them in a marble mortar with orange-flower water; add 
the juice and rind of i lemon grated, \ lb. of butter melted, 6 yolks of 
eggs and 4 whites, a pint of cream, with sugar to the taste Bake 
half an hour in pufl" paste, or butter some cups and All them half full, 
and bake. 



JUNE 21. 

' She neglects her heart who studies her gietss.* — ^Lavater. 

I. Mutton Soup. 2. Breast of Mutton Grilled. 

3. Stone Creai^i and Tartlets. 

I. Mutton Soup. — Put 7 lbs. of neck of mutton into a stewpan with 7 
pints of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 3 turnips, 3 
carrots, and a little pepper and salt Let it remain at the side of the 
fire for at least ten hours, stirring it firequently. Put it by until the 
following day, then place it over the fire until it boils, when it must be 
put on the side of the stove to simmer slowly for three hours. ^Vhen 
done, take out the meat, which must be served on a separate dish, 
garnished with carrots and turnips. Strain the soup through a hair- 
sieve, and when cold take off the fat, and add a little pepper, salt, 
and 3 dessert-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed smooth, and stirred gra« 
dually in to thicken it 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 



183 



2. Breast of Mutton Grilled, — Nicely trim a fine well-kept breast of 
mutton, joint it underneath, and put it into the stock-pot to boil until 
half or three parts done, or braize it, then take it out. Score the top 
all over in diamonds ; brush it over with an egg beaten up, and cover 
it with bread-crumbs seasoned with fine herbs, pepper, and salt Broil 
it over a clear fire, or bake it in an oven. Serve it with piquant^ 
Italian, tomato, onion, or caper sauce. 

3. Stone Cream and Tartlets, — Soak \ oz, of isinglass in a little warm 
water ; a pint of cream (or half cream and half milk) ; sweeten to your 
taste. Add the isinglass, and boil two minutes, stirring it the whole 
time. Put it in a jug to C90I ; have ready a glass dish with preserves ; 
when nearly cold, pour the mixture on it Be sure to stir it the whole 
time in the jug till it jellies. 



JUNE 22. 

*A viife has a thousand opportunities of removing prepossessions, of fixing impressions^ 
of engaging attentions, of insinuating goodness,'' — PR. BURNS. 



1. Mulligatawny Soup. 

2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb 

A la St. Menhould. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Strawberry Blanc Mange 

AND Tartlets. 



1. Mulligatawny Soup, — Cut up a rabbit or fowl into small pieces, 
and brown them in a frying-pan. Then put them into a stewpan with 
the onions fried, a slice of garlic, and 3 pints of stock, into which you 
have previously mixed the curry powder ; let all simmer gently for two 
hours; then add the almonds pounded, the lemon or mango juice^ 
with a lump of butter and salt to taste. Serve very hot, and send up 
a large dish of boiled rice with it ; or the rice may be put into the soup 
if preferred. 

2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb d la St. Menhould, — Cut off the red 
bone at the edge of the breast of lamb firom the tendons ; blanch and 
braize the breast until it is so tender that the rib -bones may be 
easily pulled out It may then be prepared whole as a breast of 
mntton. 

For cutlets, place it between two dishes that it may remain flat, and to 
cool ; then divide it into cutlets, with two or three bones to each. Pare 
off the skin and trim them neatly, leaving the bones protruding about 
an inch ; next ^g-and-breast-crumb them for firying. If for broiling, 
dip them in clarified butter, and cover them with bread-crumbs again. 
They may be done in either of those wa)rs. Serve them with plain 
gravy, Italian or piquant sauce, or with any of the sauces for mutton 
cutlets. 



i84 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Strawberry Blanc Mange and Tarilds, — Measure a quart (without 
their stalks) of fresh and richly-flavoured strawberries; crush them 
lightly with a wooden or silver spoon; strew over them 8 oz. of 
pounded sugar, and let them stand for three or four hours ; then turn 
them on to a fine hair-sieve reversed, and rub them through it Melt 
over a gentle fire a oz. of the best isinglass in a pint of new milk, and 
sweeten it with 4 oz. of sugar ; strain it through a muslin, and mix it 
with i^ pints of thick cream. Keep these stirred till nearly or quite 
cold, then pour them gradually to the strawberries, whisking them briskly 
together ; and, last of all, throw in by small portions the strained juice 
of a fine sound lemon. Put in a mould, in a very cool place, for 12 
hours or more, before it is served. 



JUNE 28. 

* Be net disturbed eibout trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidahle,^^^ 

Dr. Franklin. 

1. Wrexham Soup. 

2. Breast of Lamb with Peas. 

3. Cherry Pudding, etc 

1. Wrexham Soup, — Cut a lb. of gravy beef into very small pieces ; 
put them into a half-gallon jar ; fill it up with every description of vege- 
tables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over 
the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far 
better, for at least six hours. 

This generally makes sufficient soup for four persons. A little pepper 
and salt must be added. 

2. Breast of Lamb with Peas, — Take out the bones and cut it into 
moderate-size pieces ; warm them in a braize, drain, and glaze them ; 
serve them with stewed peas poured over, prepared thus : — ^Put some 
fresh-shelled young peas into a stewpan, with a slice of ham, a piece of 
butter, a bunch of parsley, and green onions ; stew them gently over a 
slow fire until tender ; then add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of brown sauce, salt, 
pepper, and a little sugar. If it is preferred white, use bkchamel or sauce 
supreme, 

3. Cherry Puddings etc, — Make a good crust, and line a pudding- 
basin, previously buttered, with it ; pick your fruit and fill the basin ; 
put in a very litde water and some sugar, wet the edge of the 
paste all round, then cover the top with a crust, and pinch the 
edges together; tie a cloth tightly over, and boil the pudding lor 
an hour and a half, or two hours, according to its size. AVhen you 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE, 185 

take it out of the pot, dip the basin into cold water, then turn the 
pudding out on to a dish. 



JUNE 24. 

' Piety is the true charm of home ; a holy home is the only really happy one,^- 

Rev. J. B. OSDEN. 



I. Stewed Eels. 
3. B&EAST OF Lamb rolled with 
A Ragout. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Amber Pudding. 



1. Stewed Eds. — Skin and cut the fish into lengths of about two 
inches ; fill a frying-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it 
over a slow fire ; extract as much of the oily fat from the fish as possible, 
keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent their 
touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to drain for a couple 
of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 table- 
spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, a glasses of sherry, a third of 
soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, and a 
dozen small silver onions ; let the fish stew in these ingredients over a 
slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve; should it 
require thickening, add a little flotu*, beat up with the yolk of an egg ; 
lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce, quite hot, over the fish. 
Gambh with slices of lemon. 

2. Breast of Lamb rolled with a RagoiU, — Have a breast of lamb cut 
rather broad^ bone it, and season it well with pepper and salt. Spread 
it over with veal forcemeat, roll it up, and bind it tight with tape. Stew 
it gently in a braize until tender ; take it up, and put it into a moderate 
oven ; glaze it two or three times before serving, and serve it with a 
ragoiU of any sort of vegetables round. 

4. Amber Pudding, — Line a pudding-dish with good puff paste, ^ lb. 
of fresh butter, \ lb. loaf sugar, and 8 eggs. Mix the yolks of the eggs 
with the sugar and butter on the fire till it becomes thick, but not boil- 
ing ; whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix with the other 
when cold. Put any jam on the bottom of the dish, according to taste ; 
pour the mixture of eggs, etc. over, and bake half an hour. 




x86 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



JUNE 28. 

* ' Tis never woman* s part 
Out offierfond misgivinqs to perplex 
The fortunes of the man to whom she cleaves: 
' Tis hers to weave all that she has of fair 
And bright in the dark meshes of their web 
Inseparate from their windings,"* — Talfourd. 



1. Oxtail Soup. 

2. Vegetable Stew. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Alderman's Pudding. 



1. Oxtail Soup: — Cut 3 or 4 oxtails into pieces (all but the tips) 
by dividing them at the joints, and cut the largest pieces again into two, 
or, if very large, into three or four pieces ; put these into a stewpan, and 
cover them with water. Let them come slowly to the boil, take ofif all 
the scum carefully, and boil gently by the side of the stove, adding a 
few black peppercorns, allspice, and 2 or 3 cloves ; keep the pan close 
covered. When the meat is tender, take out the pieces of tail, put them 
into a clean pan, and strain the liquor to them, which put aside. 

The roots should be prepared as below. When a basin or two of 
soup is required, it is only necessary to take some of each and put into 
a stewpan with sufficient water to reduce it; then boil, scum, and 
season with salt and pepper, and serve. Thus, with a little manage- 
ment, this, as well as several other soups, may be kept on hand without 
any danger of their being soon spoiled, and served at five minutes' notice. 

Pare off the rind of 5 or 6 turnips, scrape 3 or 4 carrots, and peel 2 or 
3 dozen of button onions ; cut the carrots and turnips into pieces about 
an inch long and half an inch square, and trim each in the form of a 
crescent Let the carrots be done first, and put them into a stewpan 
with sufficient water to boil the whole of the vegetables ; let these boil 
about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, then add the turnips, with 
the peeled button onions ; boil until tender, then drain the water from 
them, and put them to the tails previously prepared, with sufficient 
brown veal consotntnk to make 3 or 4 quarts of soup ; let them boil 
gently in this until well done, season with pepper and salt, and serve. 
Let it be perfectly clear and free from fat 

2. Vegetable Stew. — Put a few beets, a litde onion, i lettuce, and a 
cucumber sliced into a stewpan, with a little water, and a proper 
quantity of butter, pepper, and salt Set the pan in the oven ; and when 
the vegetables have been stewed some time, put a quantity of boiled 
peas and some meat into the pan, and let the whole stew till the meat 
is ready to serve up. Lay the vegetables in the dish round the meat 
Mutton, lamb, and veal are excellent dressed in this manner ; and it is 
a very good way of using up cold meat 



BILL OJi FARE FOR JUNE, 187 

4. Alderman's Pudding. — Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon- 
peel and some fine sugar ; pour it hot over ^ lb. of new Savoy biscuits, 
cover the bowl with a plate till the cream is soaked up ; then add 3 oz. 
of sweet almonds pounded or chopped fine, 8 eggs, the yolks and whites 
separately beaten ; bake it in puff paste, with a thin layer of orange or 
apricot marmalade in the middle. 



JUNE 2 6. 

' Sweet is the smUe of home; the mutual look 
When hearts are of each other sure; 
Sweet all the joys that crowd the household nooh. 
The haunt of all affections pure,^ — Keble. 



1. Clear Pea Soup. 

2. Lamb. 

3. Asparagus. 



4. Melted Butter for nirra 

5. Gooseberry Pudding. 

6. Vegetables. 



1. Clear Pea Sonp, — Shell about i-J pints of nice young peas, blanch 
them in salt and water, strain and put them into 2 quarts of boiling 
consommiy with a sprig of mint ; a lettuce may also be cut small and 
added, if preferred \ boil till the peas are tender, take out the mint, 
season with salt and a little sugar. Cut the crust of a French roll in 
small dice, and put into the tureen. 

2. Lamb. — Parboil & neck or breast of house-lamb; have ready 
bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; beat these up with as 
many eggs, both white and yolk, as will make the mixture sufficiently 
thick to adhere to the meat Score the joint all over deeply, and rub 
the seasoning well into the scores ; place it on a dish in a Dutch oven, 
before a good bright fire, turning it frequendy for above half an hour — 
the time will depend on the size of your joint. 

3. Asparagus, — Cut the heads about four or five inches long ; scrape 
them and throw them into cold water ; tie them in bundles ; put them 
into boiling water with plenty of salt in it ; let them come quickly to a 
boil — ^they will take from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. Wheii 
tender, take them up with a slice ; drain them well ; remove the string, 
and lay the asparagus in a dish, heads inwards, on slices of toast 
previously dipped in the liquor. Serve with melted butter. Sea kale 
is dressed in the same manner. 

4. Melted Butter for ditto, — For melted butter, mix in the proportion 
of a tea-spoonful of flour to 4 oz. ot good butter, on a trencher. Put it into 
a small saucepan, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls ot hot water ; boil quickly ^ 
minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water looks 
whiter, and requires rather less butter. 



1 88 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

5. Gooseberry Pudding, — Make a good suet crust (of veal, or beef- 
kidney suet), 8 oz. suet pounded with 2 of butter, and worked with the 
fingers into a lb. of flour. A richer crust will take 16 oz. suet, flour i^ 
lbs., butter 4 oz., and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Line the basin with 
it about half an inch thick. Top and tail the gooseberries (green 
about i^ pints to a quart of them), and put in the basin with ^ lb. 
of moist sugar; cover with crust, pinch the edges together, tie a 
floured cloth over ; put it into boiling water, and boil from two hours 
and a half to three hours. Turn it out, and serve with a jug of good 
cream. ' 



JUNE 27. 

* A masculine woman must be naturally an unamiahle creaiurej*- 

Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Vegetable Soup. 

2. Breast of Mutton a la 

St. Menhould. 



3. Batter Pudding. 

4. Sauce to ditto. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Vegetable Soup, — For a tureen of soup, take about 2 quarts of veal 
consommi quite free from fat ; make it boiling hot ; add the vegetables to 
it about a quarter of an hour before serving, so that the green vegetables 
may retain their colour, and the whole become perfectly hot ; season 
with salt and a pinch of sugar, and serve. 

2. Breast of Mutton d la St. Menhould, — ^Take a breast of mutton 
and braize it When done, take it up with a slice, and pull out the 
bones; season it with pepper and salt ; dip it in melted butter; cover 
it well with bread-crumbs ; boil it over a gende fire, and serve it with 
clear gravy. 

3. Hatter Pudding, — Beat up, with a whisk, 4 new-laid eggs ; when 
the yolks and whites are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of finely- 
sifted flour in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has been mixed ; pour 
upon the flour and egg half a pint of cream or new milk, and add a 
table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg to 
cover a sixpence. See that the mould be well buttered ; pour in the 
batter, cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all with a 
proper doth. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wine sauce over 
it before sending to table. 

4. Satice to ditto, — Thicken half a pint of milk with com flour, ac- 
cording to the directions for custards on the packets. Beat the yolk of 
an egg very well, and stir it into the custard when that is at boiling 
point, but do not boil it ; then put in a piece ot fresh butter, not laiger 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 189 

than a filbert, beat the sauce well up, add a heaped tea-spoonful of sifted 
white sugar, which beat in also. A few drops of essence of almonds 
give an agreeable flavour for rice, light suet pudding, or batter pudding. 
If the sauce is for currant, mince, or Christmas pudding, a glass of 
sherry or brandy should be put at the bottom of the sauce tureen, and 
the sauce poured on, beaten all the time of pouring. 



JUNE 2 8. 

* It is the heautt/ul necessity of our tiaiure to lave something,^ — DOUGLAS Jerrold, 



1. White Soup. 

2. Roast Veal- 

3. Boiled Ham. 



4. French Beans. 

5. Rhubarb Pie. 



1. White Soup, — Take the flesh from the legs and breast of a boiled 
fowl, \ lb. of veal cutlet, the crumb of two penny French rolls soaked 
in chicken broth, \ oz. of rice boiled, and z oz. of blanched sweet 
almonds. Clear the veal and fowl from skin, fat, and sinews, and poimd 
the whole well in a mortar, using a little veal cansommk to moisten it in 
the pounding. When well pounded, add some more veal consomtni^ 
using about 2 quarts, and rub the whole through a tammy into a pot 
that is perfectly clean ; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it well stirred ; then add a glass of sherry and a quarter 
of a pint of good cream, but do not let it boil after this, or it will curdle; 
season with salt, cayenne, a little mace, and nutmeg. Keep it hot for 
serving in the hain marie (a vessel containing boiling water). Some 
pieces of bread fried of a light gold colour may be cut into dice, and 
served with the soup in the tureen. 

2. Roast Veal, — Roast veal is much improved by a stufling com- 
posed of chopped suet and parsley, lemon-peel, a little thyme, savoury, 
marjoram, a litde grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, all mixed together with an egg. The bones should be 
carefully taken out, and the stufling put in their place ; then cover your 
veal with buttered paper to prevent it burning, and set it down before a 
strong, clear fire, not too close at first, as it requires more dressing than 
beef or mutton, it being extremely unwholesome it underdone. Wlien 
nearly enough roasted, take ofi* the paper and let it brown ; sprinkle it 
with salt, and baste it well either with its own dripping, or, if there be 
Dot enough, with lamb dripping or butter. Garnish with lemon cut in 
quarters or sliced 

4. Freruh Beans, — Cut ofl" the two ends and string them, then split 
and cut them in two, throw them into a pan of clean water, and put 



igo THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

them into plenty of boiling water with some salt and a little bit oi soda. 
When they are soft, which will be in about a quarter of an hour or 
twenty minutes, strain them through a sieve, and serve them with melted 
butter. 

5. Rhubarb Pie, — As a vast improvement to its flavour, let a table- 
spoonful of green lime juice be poured over the stalks before the crust 
is put on. In default of this, squeeze the juice of a lemon, and th^t of 

a Seville orange. 

— — 

JUNE 29. 
* Put this restriction on your pleasures : Be cautious that they injure no bein^ which 

has li/e,^ — ZiMMERMANN. 



1. Vegetable Soup. 

2. Mutton Cutlets Grilled. 

3. Roast Pigeons. 



4. Asparagus Omelet. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Vegetable Soup, — ^The vegetables should be nicely prepared for 
these soups. Cut carrots in thin rounds, with the edges notched ; grated, 
they give an amber colour to soup. Wash parsley carefully, and cut it 
small. Cut turnips into thin slices, and then divide the round in four ; 
cut leeks in slices ; cut celery in half-inch lengths — ^the delicate green 
leaves impart a fine flavour to the soup. Take the skins from tomatoes, 
and squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a lump of sugar to soups of 
vegetables or roots, to soften them and improve the flavour. 

2. Mutton Cutlets Grilled. — ^Take a well-kept neck of mutton ; cut it 
into cutlets, with a bone to each ; trim them neatly, cutting ofi" the chine 
bone and nearly the whole of the fat ; make them of a good shape, and 
scrape the ends of the bones bare about an inch. Wash, pick, and chop 
some parsley fine with a little thyme ; add these to some bread-crumbs, 
pepper, and salt; brush them over with Qg%^ and cover them with the 
seasoned crumbs ; they may be dipped in clarified butter, and again 
covered with the crumbs. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear 
fire, dish them en miroton (^ a circle, the half of one overlapping the 
other), and serve them with plain gravy in a boat ; or fill the centre with 
India pickle, and pour sauce round. 

3. Koast Pigeons. — ^Their good flavour depends much on their being 
cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much 
washing. When wiped dry, each bird should be stufied with paisley, 
either cut or whole, pepper and salt, and | oz. of butter to keep them 
moist Baste them well the whole time at a brisk fire; they will take 
from twenty to thirty minutes to roast Serve with parsley and butter, 
or with bread-sauce and gravy, or egg sauce. Peas or asparagus should 
be dressed to eat with them. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 191 



5. Asparagus Onuld, — Boil 12 of the largest and finest asparagus; 
cut off the green portion, and chop it in thin slices; season with a 
spoonful of salt and about a fourth of that quantity of soluble cayenne ; 
beat up 6 ^;gs in cream ; melt in the frying-pan \ lb. of butter ; pour 
half the batter into the centre of the pan as soon as the butter is quite 
hot, then place the asparagus tops upon the eggs, and cover the vege- 
table over with the remainder. Let this omelet be sent to table on a 
round of buttered toast 



JUNE 30. 

• We ought to take the utmost pains in every undertaking to make a good 

beginning, ' — POLYBIUS. 



1. Asparagus Soup. 

2. Veal Cutlets ek Papillottes. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Cabinet Pudding. 



1. Asparagus Soup, — ^To any good and well-seasoned cmsammi (jelly 
broth) you may add asparagus tops, boiled separately, and put into the 
tureen when you pour in the soup for ser\'ing. 

2. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes, — Cut the cutlets rather thin from the 
best end of the neck or leg of veal, and put them into a souse for a 
couple of hours made with parsley, green onions, a few shalots, and 
mushrooms chopped fine ; also add 2 or 3 bay leaves and spices, a little 
oil and lemon-juice. Take out the cutlets and bay leaves, trim them 
neatly, and put some of the souse on each side, over which place a thin 
slice of ham and udder. Wrap the whole in oiled or buttered writing 
paper, letting the end of the bone of the cutlet remain uncovered. 
Broil them over a moderate fire. When done, serve them in the papers 
with some white Italian sauce, in a boat, for which any remaining por- 
tion of the herbs firom the souse may be used. 

4. Cabinet Pudding, — Add \ lb. of grated bread to the same quantity 
of cut and stoned raisins. Boil a small quantity of lemon-peel, cinnar 
mon, and sugar in half a pint of milk, strain it off, and add 4 eggs well 
beaten up ; then pour in a glass of Madeira and another of brandy. 
Butter a mould capable of holding a pint and three-quarters, put in the 
ingredients, place a piece of writing paper at the bottom of the mould, 
and steam it for an hour. 




192 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JUNE. 

The table decorated with a handsome basket of fresh flowers placed 

upon a plateau in the centre. 



I. TOURONS DE DIFFE&ENTES COU- 
LEURS. 

2. Confiture ds Tiges d'Angel- 

IQUE. 

3. Ratafias. 

4. Compote de Groseilles a Ma- 

QUERAUD. 

5. Cherries and Green Aluonds 

Mixed. 



6. GUIRLANDES PRINTANIERES. 

7. Savoy Cake. 

8. Marmelade d'Abricots. 

9. Marmelade de Pommes. 

10. Portuguese Macaroons. 

1 1. Glaces de Cafe a la Creme. 
Confiture of Green Codlins, 

Dried Fruit, Fruit Jellies, 
Candied Citron Chips, etc. 



I. TOURONS DE DIFFERENTES COULEURS. 

• 

Break 2 eggs into a basin ; take away the yolks and whisk the whites 
to a snow ; gradually sift in powdered loaf sugar until a stiff paste is 
formed. Colour and perfume this with what extracts or conserves you 
prefer ; roll it into balls of about the size of a pigeon's egg ; put them 
upon paper, and let them set very slowly by placing them inside a cool 
oven. 

2. CONFITURE DE TIGES D'aNGELIQUE. 

Choose some young stalks of angelica ; cut them into short lengths^ 
and throw them into cold water, and then into boiling water, with a 
little salt Let them remain in this for an hour. Prepare a thick 
sugar S3mip ; when it boils put in the angelica, and retire it from the 
fire. The next day boil up the syrup by itself, and again put in the 
angelica. Repeat this twice, letting it remain at night in the cold 
syrup, and draining it each time. When quite tender, pack it in 
glasses ; reduce the syrup until it is very strong, and pour it upon the 
angelica. When you intend to candy it, you have only to take out 
the stalks, and dip them once or twice in a caramel of sugar. 



3. ratafias. 

Blanch and beat to a paste 8 oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds, 
using a little orange-flower or rose water to keep them from oiling. 
Put with them a pound of loaf sugar beaten fine and sifted, and the 
whites of 4 eggs well whisked. Mix lightly together, and put it into 



DESSERT FOR JUNE. 193 

a preserving-pan, and stir it over the fire until it is pretty hot. Then 
fonn it into small rolls, which are to be cut into slices ; dust your 
hands with a little flour, and lay the cakes upon wafer or sugar papers ; 
slightly press them, sift powdered sugar upon them, and put them into 
a slow oven to harden. 

4. CONFITURE DE GROSEILLES A MAQUERAUD. 

Take some large green gooseberries, cut them at the stalk end in 
4 quarters ; take out the pips, and string 5 or 6 gooseberries one upon 
another, ^.stening them together with thread, so as to resemble hops. 
Put them into a saucepan between layers of vine leaves, with enough 
water to cover them. Scald them, let them grow cold; scald them 
again, and if of a good green colour, drain them, and put them into a 
surong sugar syrup to steep until the following day. Give them a boil 
up for three days successively. Take them out of the syrup ; reduce 
and skim it thoroughly, adding a little finely-shred lemon-peel and 
ginger. Put your gooseberries into jars, and pour the syrup over 
them. The gooseberries may be aftenvards candied, if required. 



6. CUIRLANDES PRINTANIERES. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until they are a snow ; add to them a tea* 
spoonful of eau-defleurs tTaranger and \ lb. of loaf sugar powdered and 
sifted ; you may likewise add a tea-spoonful of any flavouring essence 
you fancy. Put some of this mixture into a tun-dish, and let it drop 
upon paper slightly greased ; let it fall in circles similar to wreaths in 
shape. Stick upon them halved almonds or pistachio nuts, to resemble 
leaves ; among these attach a few coloured comfits to represent flower- 
buds. Place your garlands in an oven just warm enough to fix them. 
When cold, remove them carefully from the paper. 



7. SAVOY CAKE. 

Crush a pound of very white loaf sugar; put it into a saucepan, with 
2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Beat separately the yolks of 12 and 
the whites of 4 eggs ; mix them together ; add to them a wine-glassful 
of eau-de-vie. Pour in the sugar that you have just melted over the fire ; 
beat it continually until almost cold ; then stir in 12 oz. of dried flour. 
Put it into a buttered tin into which you have strewn a little powdered 
sugar, and bake it for a good hour. 

N 



194 THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. 



8. MARMELADE D'ABRICOTS. 

Stone and cut up your apricots ; blanch the keniels, and put them 
with your fruit To each pound of apricots add 13 oz. of fine loaf 
sugar ; put all together in a preserving-pan ; stir it well over a moderate 
fire; and when it begins to detach itself, pour it into smalt pots or 
glasses, and cover it with brandied paper and skin. 

9. UARUELAQE DE POUMES. 

Peel, core, and cut up your apples ; put them into a jar ; place diem 
in a gentle oven, and bake them until they are soft Mash them 
smooth; add to them half their weight of loaf sugar and some lemon- 
rind very finely shred. Stir it in a preserving-pan over a clear fire 
until they are pretty stiff. 

10. PORTUGUESE MACAROONS. 

Beat to a snow the whites of ts eggs. Found to a smooth paste t 
lb. of blanched sweet almonds j put them together; add 6 oz. of dry 
potato-flour, and 5 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Mix well, and place por* 
tions of the paste in very small pattypans ; glaze the tops with powdered 
sugar, and bake until they are of a fine clear cinnamon colour. 

ri. GLACES DE CAFE A LA CREME. 

Slightly bruise J lb. of freshly-roasted Mocha coffee ; put it into a 
skillet, with the yolks of 8 new-laid eggs, and 10 oz. of loaf sugar 
powdered and sifted ; stir it for a few moments over a very gende fire ; 
then pour in, by degrees, a quart of good cream. Let it come almost 
to a boil, stirring it the whole time. Strain it through a sieve ; let it 
grow cold, and ice it 



JULY 1. 

Thtrit nothing bright abcvi, tdmo, 
Frsmfiaaxri that bloom to ttars that ^mv, 
Bui in its light my soul shall sa 
Somi/aituTa e/lhi Daly I 

' Thtr^t nsthing dark below, ahavt. 
But in its gloom I trace Thy lovt. 
And nutkly wit the moment when 
7%y tsHuh shall turn all bright again /'—Moore. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

Meat: Beef— Mutton— Veal— Grass-lamb — Venison. 

Poultry: Pullets — Fowls — Chickens — Rabbits — Pigeons— Given Geese — Leverets 
— Tuikej Ponlts. 

Game : Plovers— Wheat Ears. 

FisH: Barbd — Caip — Conger Eels— Crabs — Dabbs — Dace— Dory— Eels— Floun- 
den — Gurnets — Heirings — Haddocks— Lmg— Lobsters — Mackerel — Mullet — 
Perch— Pike— Pluce— Prawns — Salmon— Skate — Tench— Thomback— Trout 
— Turbot — Whitings. 

Vegetables : Artichokes — Asparagus — Beans (French, Kidney, and Scarlet) — Beans 
(Windsor)— Carrots — Cauliflowers — Cucumbers — Lettuce — Peas — Salsafy — 
Spinach (Spring) — Turnips. For Drying, Knotted Mai}orani — Winter Salsafjr 
— Sninraer Savoury. For PieiUng, Beans (French)^Cabbage (Red) — Cauli- 
fiowos — C ucumbers — Gherkins — N aslurtiums — Onions — Radish-pods. 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 
Pine Apples— Nectarines — Raspberries — Strawberries — Apricots — Chetries— Car- 
ranls— Gooseberries — Plums — Melons — Walnuts in seaion for Pickling. 

I. Boiled Salmo?). | 3. Haricot Bbans. 

3. Steweo Knuckle of Veal. | 4. Green Apricot Pudding. 

I. Boiled Salmon. — Clean it carefully, being particular not to let any 
blood remain inside ; boil it gently in water (with some salt) sufficient to 
wver it — a large thick fish will require about eight minutes to each lb. 



196 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

If underdone, it is unwholesome. Take it out of the water as soon as 
done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split Have a dish of 
dressed cucumbers sent to table with it Serve with shrimp or lobster 
sauce, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Some think it a great 
improvement to squeeze a little lemon-juice over the fish. 

2. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. — Into a stewpan, capable of holding a 
couple of quarts of water besides the joint, put the meat, having two or 
three incisions made in it, with half a table-spoonful of salt, a blade of 
mace, and a salt-spoonful of soluble cayenne pepper, a head of celery 
chopped up, a small bunch of parsley, a few leaves of dried thyme, a 
couple of endives well washed and picked, and a table-spoonful of dried 
marigold leaves. Clear away the scum as it rises, let it stew for three 
hours, take out the meat, run the liquor through a sieve, pour it over the 
joint, and serve with fresh parsley and butter, and some boiled gammon 
bacon or knuckle of ham. 

3. Haricot Beans. — ^As they are the dried seeds of the French bean, 
they require soaking for several hours before they are fit to cook. Put 
them into cold water with salt in it, and let them simmer for three or 
four hours. As soon as they begin to crack, pour off the water and 
stand them on the hob to dry. They are eaten with the gravy of the 
meat like potatoes, imless preferred with melted butter. 

For a change, they may be put into a little broth or gravy, and set 
over the fire, thickened with a lump of butter rolled in floiu:, some pepper 
and salt, and chopped parsley. 

4. Green Apricot Pudding, — ^A very delicious and peculiarly fine- 
flavoured pudding can be made by putting a bottle of green apricots 
into paste, in a good-sized basin, filling up with white sugar, powdered, 
and water ; add the usual top crust, and boil the ordinary time. 



JULY 2. 

* There is much more misery thrcvm into the cup of life by domestic vnhindness than 
we might at first suppose. To love is to be happy and make ha/py ; and to love is tJu 
vety spirit 0/ true womanliness,* — ^T. S. ARTHUR. 

1. Salmon Pudding. | 3. Lentils. 

2. Roast Tongue. | 4. Macaroni. 

I. Salmon Pudding, — Take a slice of salmon of the weight you 
require, pound it \^ell in a mortar, and pass it through a sieve ; make it 
up into a ball. Poimd up with it again an equal weight of butter. Mix 
with the /««tf/& sufficient eggs to prevent it from breaking ; season with 
salt and cayenne. Put it into a pudding-mould, and steam it for an 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY, 197 

hour. Make a good bichamd sauce, add a little essence of anchovies, 
and serve round it 

2. Roast Tongue, — ^A fresh ox tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and 
sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety 
to the routine of ordinary dishes. 

3. Lentils. — Dress them according to the mode prescribed for haricots, 
in gravy or good broth instead of water, and season with pepper, salt, 
and vinegar. The gravy served with them should be thickened. 

Lentils are largely used on the Continent for thickening soups. Two 
varieties are imported into England, of which the large brown French is 
the best As a food for healthy persons, lentils are very valuable, being 
more nutritious and more readily softened than peas. 

4. Macaroni. — Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the 
liquid ; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, 
put it before the fire whilst you rub fresh butter over the top, and then 
cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes 
before sent to table. 



JULY 8. 

* Innocence in women wants not the aid of ostentation*— V>,Y.Y. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Vermicelli Soup. 

2. Beep Olives. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Victoria Pudding. 



1. Vermicelli Soup, — Cut about 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, i^ lbs. of the 
scrag of mutton, and a few slices of ham, into small pieces ; put them 
into a stewpan with one onion stuck with cloves, and four ounces of 
butter ; then add the carrots, mace, bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, 
and the celery. Mix all together, cover it close, and set it over the fire 
till all the gravy has been extracted from the meat ; pour the liquor into 
a basin, let the meat brown in the pan, and add to it four quarts of water ; 
boil it slowly till it is reduced to three pints, strain it, and stir in the 
gravy drawn from the meat Set it over the fire, add the vermicelli, one 
head of celery cut small, a little cayenne, and salt ; boil it up for ten 
minutes. Lay the roll in the tureen, pour the soup over it, and strew 
some vermicelli on the top. 

Vermicelli can also be made by boiling i quart of clear stock, adding 
2 oz. of vermicelli to it while boiling, first cutting the vermicelli into 
short lengths, and boiling it again for ten minutes. 

2. Beef Olives. — Cut some steaks from a rump of beef about ten or 
twelve inches long, four wide, and nearly half an inch thick ; trim them 



198 THII^GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



to make them square, and flatten them ; spread each over with some 
forcemeat, or take the trimmings of the beef, with an equal quantity of 
beef suet and fat bacon, some parsley, green onions, or two shalots, 
mushrooms and basil ; chop the whole veiy fine, and make them into a 
forcemeat with a little crumb of bread soaked in milk, and the yolks of 
eggs. Spread this over, roll tliem up tight, and bind them with pack- 
thread. Stew them in some second stock, with an onion stuck with 
three or four cloves, some sliced carrot and turnip, taking care the sauce 
Ts not too highly flavoured with the vegetables ; a glass of wine may also 
be added. When done, take them up, strain the liquor, skim off" the fiat, 
season with pepper and salt, reduce it a little, and pour over them on 
the dish ; or the liquor may be thickened with a little brown raux before 
it is poured over. 

4. Victoria Pudding, — Slice some apples as for fntters ; butter a deep 
mould well ; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and dipped 
in clarified (melted) butter ; then a layer of apples, with sugar and 
lemon-peel grated ; fill the mould in this way ; if the apples require it, 
add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose ; last of all, before 
you put it in the oven, cover the mould with slices of roll dipped in 
melted butter. 

— — 

JULY 4. 

* Turn to the virtues! Formed to connectj to blend, to associate, and to co-operate; 
hearing the same course, with kindred energies and harmonious sympathy, ea^h perfect 
in its awn lovely sphere, each moving in its wider or more contracted orbit, with different 
but concentring powers, guided by the same influence of reason, and endeavouring at tlie 
same blessed end — the happiness of the individual, the harmony of the species, and the 
glory of the Creator.^ — Sheridan. 

1. Brown Bread Soup. i 3. Vegetables. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. | 4. Orange Souffleb. 

1. Brown Bread Soup, — Chop your meat very fine, and put a lb. of 
it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Dredge over it an even table-spoonful of flour ; then add a quart or 
more of boiling water, cover it close, and set it over a moderate fire for 
half an hour. Strain it through a loose cloth ; toast some thin slices of 
bread delicately brown, cut them in small squares or diamonds, put 
them into a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Macaroni or vermi- 
celli boiled tender may be put to the soup ten or twelve minutes before 
serving. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef, — Have a nice square piece of brisket ; 
joint it well in the bone, and across where the gristle runs, to make it 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 199 

lie flat on the dish ; tie it up with string, and put it into the stock-pot to 
stew gently, until the bones can be pulled out easily. Take it up, drain 
and serve with sauce poured over, to which may be added a few button 
onions, and a couple of gherkins cut small. 

4. Orange Souffle, — Put \ lb. of butter into a stewpan, and mix in | 
lb. of fine flour, without melting the butter. Have ready a quart of milk, 
lukewarm, and well mixed with the orange flavouring, or bitter orange- 
peel ; pour it upon the flour ; stir over a sharp fire, and boil for five 
minutes. To this add quickly the beaten yolks of 10 eggs, with ^ lb. 
of sifted sugar, and let it cool One hour and a half before it is to be 
served, whip up the whites of the eggs until veiy firm ; stir them into 
the mixture, and pour into the souffl^e pan. This should be made of 
tin, and a band of buttered paper, four inches broad, should be tied 
round the top. When the mixture is poured into this case, it must be 
baked in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The paper should then 
be removed, and the soufflde served immediately. 



JULY 8. 

' The way in which things are done often materially lessens or increases their value?' 

Rev. Robert Anderson. 



1. Fresh Fish Soup. 

2. Cold Brisket of Beef. 

3. Dressed Salad. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Queen Anne*s Pudding. 



I. Fresh Fish Soup, — ^Take a lb. (each) of all the fish you have caught 
in your day's fishing, such as carp, dace, roach, perch, pike, and tench ; 
wash them in salt and water; then put them in a stewpan with a tomato, 
3 cariQts, I leek, 2 fried onions, and a bimch of sweet herbs ; put as 
much water to them as will cover them, and let them stew till the whole 
is reduced to a pulp, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. 
Strain off the liquor, and let it boil for another hour. Have ready 2 
turnips and a head of celery, cut into small pieces and previously boiled; 
add them to the fish soup, with the Chili vinegar and soy, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

3. Dressed Saltid, — ^Take small salad, lettuce, endive, celery, radishes, 
and young onions ; pick and wash them quite clean, cut them up in 
small pieces, put them into a salad-bowl or deep dish,' and pour over 
them the following dressing : Bruise the yolk of a cold hard-boiled egg 
with the back of a spoon on a plate, then pour on it about a tea-spoon- 
fiil of cold water and the same measure of salt ; rub all together till it 
becomes smooth like a thick paste, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; 



200 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



and when this is well mixed also, add and mix a table-spoonful of salad- 
oil or cold melted butter : after this, add and mix 2 table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar. 

Ornament the top of the salad with small bits of the white of the egg 
and pickled beetroot alternately. 

5. Queen Ann£s Pudding, — Mix in equal proportions grated bread, 
chopped apples, loaf sugar, cleaned currants, and butter, with 6 well- 
beaten eggs, adding salt, nutmeg, grated lemon -peel, and 2 oz. of 
candied citron, lemon, and orange ; mix the ingredients thoroughly ; and 
when the mixture has stood an hour, put it in a buttered mould, tie a 
floured cloth over it in several folds, and boil two and a half hours. 



JULY 6. 

' Get up ^ and ue 
Tfu deW'hespan^ed herb and tree ; 
Each flower has wept and bowed towards the east 
Abot/e an hour since; yet thou art not drest^ — 
Nay J not so much as out of bed. 
When all the birds /lave matins said. 
And sung their thankful hymns, *tis sin. 
Nay, profanation, to keep in.* — Herrick. 



1. Salmon Cutlets. 

2. Roast Wild Duck. 



3. Peas. 

4. Vermicelli Pudding. 



1. Salmon Cutlets, — Cut the slice one inch thick, and season them 
with salt and pepper ; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a 
separate bit with their ends twisted, broil gently over a clear fire, and 
serve with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, 
add a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time, five to ten minutes. 

2. Roast Wild Duck, — ^The wild duck requires no stuffing. Hang it 
down to a good brisk fire, and roast for about half an hour, keeping it 
well basted ; finish by lighdy dredging with flour, and frothing dish with 
a litde good gravy round it Before carving, make a few slits in the 
breast, over which place a piece of fresh butter to melt down. Cut a 
lemon in half; on one piece sprinkle a little salt, on the other some 
cayenne; put the two together, and squeeze out the juice over the 
butter ; pour over a glass of warm port wine to crown the whole, and 
your duck is ready to be eaten. 

3. Peas, — ^Take half a tea-spoonful of subcarbon of soda, and throw 
it into the water a minute before you put the vegetables into the sauce* 
pan. This will assuredly preserve the colour of peas and French beans, 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY, 201 

and may be used with good effect on cauliflower and broccoli, obtaining 
thereby a fine contrast in colour between the vegetable and its 
stalk. 

4. Vermicelli Pudding, — Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break 
a stick of cinnamon into bits ; boil these in a pint of milk, then sweeten 
with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve ; put ^ lb. of vermi- 
celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; beat up the yolks of 
6 eggSy add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an 
hour. 



JULY 7. 

Give every man thine ear^ but few thy voice 

Ta&e each man^s censure, but reserve thy judgment.^ — Shakspeare. 



1. Red Mullet. 

2. Stewed Lamb. 



3. Cauliflower. 

4. Gooseberry Fool. 



T. Red Mullet, — They should be enveloped in oiled paper, and put 
into boiling lard in the frying-pan, and turned occasionally for a quarter 
of an hour ; before serving take off the paper, and garnish the di^ with 
slices of lemon. 

2. Slewed Lamb, — Cut up into small pieces 2 lbs. of cold roast or 
boiled lamb, put it into a convenient-sized stewpan, with 2 tea-spoonfuls 
of flour, I of chopped onions, i of salt, quarter of pepper and pint of 
water, and a bay leaf; bring to the boil, add a pint of boiled green 
peas, simmer for twenty minutes, and serve. 

The white of dressed cauliflower can be used, or small mushrooms. 

3. Cauliflower, — ^Afler trimming the outside leaves, and cutting off 
the stalk, put them in a panful of salt and water for an hour before 
cooking. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of salt into the water in the saucepan, 
let it boil, and skim it most carefully ; put in your vegetables, and allow 
from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size. Remember that 
those of moderate growth, neither too large nor too small, are always 
the best 

4. Gooseberry Fool, — Pick a quart of full-grown unripe gooseberries, 
and put them into a saucepan with a little water. Cover them up, and let 
them simmer very softly. When they are tender, but not so much done 
as to burst, take them off, strain the water from them, and turn them 
into a dish. Now bruise them to a fine pulp, and sweeten them with 
sugar to your taste. Let them stand till cool, and then add new milk 
or cream. 



202 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



JULY a 

' If we would make lave our hwseholdgod^ we had best secure him a comfortable roof* 

— Sheridan. 



1. Trimming Soup. 

2. Stewed Rump-steaks. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Bread Pudding. 



1. Trimming Soup, — Cut the beef or mutton and the v^etables in 
pieces ; season them with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a 
jar with a pint of peas and the Patna rice. Pour in 4 quarts of water ; 
cover the jar very closely, and set it in the oven to bake. When 
done, strain it through a sieve, and serve it up very hot 

2. Stewed Eumpsteaks. — Cut some steaks from a well-kept rump of 
beef. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and an onion cut 
small Fry the steaks quickly of a nice brown, and take them up ; 
thicken the butter with some flour, and stir it well over the fire to 
make a brown roux^ which moisten with beef gravy or good cansommk; 
add a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, 3 or 4 cloves, 
and about a dozen whole allspice. Put in the steaks, and let the whole 
stew gendy until they are very tender ; then skim off the fat ; strain the 
sauce, and season it with pepper and salt Add a glass of port wine 
and a little mushroom or walnut ketchup ; lay the steaks in the middle 
of the dish, pour the sauce over quite hot, and serve. 

4. Bread Pudding, — Boil a pint of milk with 2 oz. of butter and a 
little mace ; pour it on 2 tea-cakes or a French roll. When cold, beat 
it up well with 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of sugar, \ lb. of currants, the peel 
of half a lemon grated, and a little salt Bake or boil it If baked, 
turn it out of the dish it is baked in. 



JULY 9. 

* I had ratJicr a thousand times see a young lady carry her hashfulness toofar^ than 
pique herself on the freedom of her manners,* — Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Eel Soup. 

2. Roast Pigeons. 



3. Boiled Bacon and Beans. 

4. Fruit Pie. 



I. Eel Soup, — Take 3 lbs. of eels ; cut them into slices, and stew 
them for ten minutes over a slow fire in 3 oz. of butter; then pour 
over them 2 quarts of water, put in a crust of bread, an onion cut into 
slices, 3 blades of mace, 30 whole peppers, i carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a little salt ; cover the stewpan closely, and simmer till the 
eels are tender, but not broken. Mix 3 dessert-spoonfuls of flour with 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY, 203 

\ pint of cream nibbed smooth j add to it the soup, which must be 
ureviously strained^ and the slices of eel taken carefully out Boil it 
up, and pour it over the sliced eels in your tureen. Toast a slice of 
bread, cut it into dice, and place it at the bottom of the tureen. 

2. Roast Figeans. — ^These birds cannot be dressed too fresh. Let 
them be stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs; 
roast for five-and-twenty-minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 

3. BaiUd Bacon and Beans. — These must be boiled separately, other- 
wise the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Soak the bacon for 
an hour or two in cold water ; trim and scrape it as dean as possible, 
and put it into enough cold watp to cover it ; set it over a slow fire, so 
that it will be half an hour before it comes to a boil ; then skim it, 
and let it boil gently till done. Two or 3 pounds will require an hour 
and a half after it boils ; the hock or gammon, being thick, will require 
more time. When done enough, strip off the rind ; and your beans in 
the meantime having been boiled and strained, put them into a deep 
dish, lay the bacon upon them, and send them to table, with parsley 
and butter in a boat. 

4. Fruit Fie. — Make a good crust; lay a little round the sides of 
the dish ; throw some sugar on the bottom, and put in a little cup to 
suck in the juice ; lay in the fmit, and put some more sugar at top ; 
then put in a very little water ; wet the top of the crust that goes round 
inside the dish ; put on the cover, and pinch the edges together. Cut 
the rhubarb into lengths of two inches, but do not skin it ; only trim it 
at top and bottouL 

JULY 10. 

^HecataCs never deaf but when your heart is dumb,* — Quarles. 



I. Haddock Soup. 

2. SWEETB&KADS A LA DaUPHINE. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Greengage Tart. 



I. Haddock Soup, — ^Separate all the meat from the bones of a fine 
fresh haddock, and pound it in a mortar with a pint of picked shrimps ; 
chop a little bunch of parsley very fine, and add it to the fish, with the 
crumb of a French roll steeped in \ pint of cream. Beat i ^^ well, 
and mix it with the above ingredients, which must then be put into 2 
quarts of good warm broth, and seasoned with the pepper, salt, cayenne, 
and mace. Let it boil, closely covered, for half an hour, and then 
pulp it through a sieve. Thicken the soup with a little piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; warm it up, and serve. 

•2. Sweetbreads d la Dauphine, — Pare the fat and sinews from 3 or 4 



204 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

heart sweetbreads, and put them into warm water to disgorge ; blanch 
them to make them firm, and lard them on the top. Prepare a stew- 
pan as for z. fricandeau^ and braize them. AVhen done, drain them dry 
and glaze them well Serve z.purie of sorrel or endive under them. 

4. Greengage Tart — Select fruit not quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; 
fill a pie-dish with them ; beat up \ lb. of powdered sugar in as much 
spring water as will dissolve it; pour this over the fruit, cover with 
puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of 
egg with a brush over your crust ; put the tart back in the oven for a 
few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. 



JULY 11. 

* So be ours the faith that savetA^ 
Hope that every trial braveth^ 
Love that to the end endureth. 
And, through Christy the crown secureth,* — DOANE. 



1. Grey Mullet. 

2. Sweetbread Fie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Regent Pudding. 



1. Grey Mullet — This is a fish of a peculiar flavour and character. 
It may be boiled, broiled, roasted, or baked. When small, it may be 
cooked in the usual fashion of dressing such fish as whitings, etc. If 
large, it may be cooked as cod or salmon. 

2. Sweetbread Pie. — Boil over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a 
neck of veal and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful of grated 
nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in powder and soluble cayenne, and 
a tea-spoonful of salt ; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to about 
half a pint ; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round 
the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbreads 
stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their liquor, taking 
care that the fish and meat are properly distributed ; then fill the dish 
with the gravy before made as above. Put on the top crust, and bake 
in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. 

4. Regent Pudding, — Five eggs well beaten, and i pint of cream, 
mixed together and strained into a basin that has been well buttered 
Tie a cloth over the edge of it, and boil slowly for half an hour ; then 
turn it into a deep dish with sauce as follows : — ^Two glasses of white 
wine, the juice and rind of a lemon cut very thin like threads, \ lb. of 
lump sugar. Boil this to a syrup, and pour it round the pudding, not 
over it, as it would discolour and might break it 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUL K 205 



JULY 12. 

• Tht retiring graces have been always the most attractive*-^ 
Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. John Dory. 

2. Pigeons Broiled. 

3. Fillet OF Veal. 



4. Asparagus. 

5. Mark Lane PuDDiNa 



1. John Dory, — Prepare the fish as you do a turbot Put it into a 
fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with the salt in proportion to 
the quantity of water ; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer gradually 
for about three-quarters of an hour — more or less, according to the size 
of your fish. Serve it in a neatly-folded napkin, and garnish with curled 
parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, 
or plain melted butter, can be sent to table in a tureen. 

2. Pigeons Broiled, — ^After cleaning them thoroughly,, split the backs ; 
pepper and salt them, and rub them over with a little butter, broil them 
very nicely for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes with a 
moderate fire, and pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms 
in melted butter, and serve very hot; or parsley and butter. They 
should be stuffed like boiled fowls. 

3. Fillet of Veal, — ^Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting, and 
twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed. Before cooking, 
let the flap be stuffed with a forcemeat, composed of 2 oz. of finely 
powdered bread-crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, a salt-spoonful 
of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace in powder, and soluble 
cayenne pepper, the leaves of 6 stalks of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of 
dried sweet herbs ; break up an egg, and mix these ingredients well 
together. Baste your joint with iresh butter, and send it to table well 
browned. A nice bit of streaky bacon, or gammon, should invariably 
be served with fillet of veal, unless ham be provided. 

4. Asparagus, — Cut the asparagus so that only the eatable part has 
to be dressed ; set on water, and slightly salt it when it boils ; put in 
the vegetables, which will take at least half an hour to cook ; try it before 
you dish it Have ready some toasted bread, and enough melted butter 
tor the quantity of asparagus you have dressed ; dip the toast quickly 
into the asparagus water, cut it into pieces of a convenient size for 
serving, place it on a dish, and cover with melted butter; then drain 
the asparagus, arrange it nicely on the toast, and cover with the rest of 
the melted butter. Serve hot. This is a much better mode of serving 
than the old way ; it does not need tongs, an article not always found 
in small households. 

5. Mark Lane Pudding, — Cut fine, stale bread in thin slices, boil i 



2o6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



pint of milk and put to it, let it stand till cold, sweeten it with white 
sugar, and add 2 spoonfuls of rose-water mixed with 4 eggs well beaten ; 
beat all together till it is a fine batter ; butter a wooden dish and put 
in the batter, dredge a litde flour on the top, tie a cloth over, and boil 
an hour. 



JULY IS. 

' There is small chance of truth at the goal^ where there is not a childlike humility 

at the starting-past.* — Coleridge. 



1. Celery Soup. 

2. Minced Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. SouFFLEE Pudding. 



1. Cday Soup. — ^After cutting your celery into pieces of about an 
inch long, put it into a stewpan of boiling water, seasoned with a little 
salt and sugar ; put it over a dear fire, and when veiy tender take out 
the celery and pulp it through a sieve ; add it to the stock, and let it 
stew slowly for nearly three-quarters of an hour ; then stir in a pint of 
nice firesh cream, make it very hot, but do not let it boil, and serve it in 
a tureen. 

2. Minced Veal. — To have this a white dish, let the cold veal be cut 
into slices, pare off the brown edges and fat, and then chop the meat 
into square pieces ; flour these well, and put them into a saucepan, with 
a tea-cupful of cream, the juice of a lemon, a httle of the peel chopped 
very fine, a very small quantity of salt, mace, and white pepper ; keep 
shaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil for more than a minute, or 
you will render the meat hard. 

4. SoujffUe Pudding. — ^Work with your hands \ lb. of butter with 6 oz. 
of flour; have i pint of milk boiled, flavour with lemon-peel, and add 
the milk to the butter and flour ; when this boils, add 6 yolks of e^s, 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; put this by till cold ; then whip up 4 
whites of eggs to a strong froth, add to the former mixture ; have a 
plain mould papered and ornamented with dried cherries, citron, etc, 
and boil or steam two hours. This pudding will rise 4 times its original 
height^ so that great care should be taken to have the mould or stewpan 
large enough. Let it stand ten minutes before turning it out Ser^e 
with brandy sauce. 




BILL OF FARE FOR JUL V. 207 



JULY 14. 

'Many a ttrfe who is plunging her husband deeper and deeper into debt from ignore 
ance^ would, if she knew his embarrassments, be the first to retrench, the first to save, 
and with true womanly sympathy and generosity, hdp him to reinstate his falling for'- 
tunes.* — Professor Wilson. 



1. Stxwed Red Mullet. 

2. Casssrolx OF Beef. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Strawberry Soufflee. 



1. Stewed Red Mullet. — Stew 2 or 3 mullets for about twenty or thirty 
minutes over a moderate fire, with 2 glassfuls of hock, i of sherry, a 
carrot and a turnip cut into slices, half a blade of mace, i large bay leaf, 
a bunch of thyme and parsley, and half a lemon sliced, with pepper and 
salt to your taste. When done, lay them in a hot dish, strain the sauce, 
thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, pour it over the fish. 
Serve them up very hot 

2. Casserole of Beef . — Make a brown sauce as for stewed steaks, cut 
some thin slices off the underdone part of a piece of roast beef, and put 
into the sauce to warm through, tsJcing particular care that the sauce 
does not boil after the beef is added. Prepare some mashed potatoes ; 
make a rim with them round the inside of a dish, and put them into the 
oven to brown ; when done, pom: the beef and sauce into the centre, 
and serve with some pickles in a glass. 

4. Strawberry Soufflee. — Stew the strawberries with a little lemon-peel, 
sweeten, then lay them pretty high round the inside of a dish. Make a 
custard of the yolks of 2 eggs, a little cinnamon, sugar, and milk ; let it 
thicken over a slow fire, but not boil ; when ready, pour it in the inside 
of the strawberries; beat the whites of the eggs to a strong firoth, and 
cover the whole ; throw over it a good deal of pounded sugar, and brown 
of a fine brown. Any fiiiit made of a proper consistence does for the 
walls. 



JULY 18. 

' Of all qualities, good temper is the one that wears and works the best in married life. 
Conjoined with self-control, it gives patience, — the patience to bear and forbear, to listen 
without retortf to refrain until the angry flash has past.^^SuiLES. 



1. Toasted Mackerel. 

2. Duck Stewed with Green 

Peas. 



3. Victoria Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Toasted Mackerel. — ^To toast mackerel, they must be wrapped in 
fennel, and put upon the gridiron at a charcoal fire, turning them often. 



2o8 THINGS A LAI>Y WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



When roasted, they must be opened, and a good sauce made under 
them with butter, parsley, and gooseberries; the whole very well 
seasoned. It may be done over a clear cinder fire. 

2. Duck Stewed with Green Peas, — Prepare a duck as for roasting, 
but do not stuff it. Put a small piece of butter in a stewpan, and nicely 
brown the duck, take it out, and brown a table-spoonful of flour in the 
remaining butter, and add to it half a pint of beef stock ; let it boil, 
return the duck, put in also i quart of peas, with a bunch of sweet herbs, 
including a little mint and sage, cover dose, and stew till done ; remove 
the herbs, dish the duck, cover, and surround with the peas. 

3. Victoria Pudding, — Make a custard with 4 eggs, i pint of milk, 
and \ oz. of isinglass, flavouring it with vanilla and brandy ; the vanilla 
should be cut into small pieces, tied up in a muslin bag, and boiled in 
the milk; the brandy should be added when cold — 2, very small 
quantity of the latter is sufficient Let the custard get quite cold, when 
it will become thick and lumpy. Dip a jelly mould into cold water, and 
with a spoon arrange the custard in the design at the bottom of the 
mould, carefully filling all the holes. Slice some penny spongecakes in 
halves, dip them in sherry or Marsala, and place them in layers in the 
centre of the mould, with preserves (eitlier strawberry or raspberry) 
between each layer, filling up the space between the cake and the mould 
with custard, so that when turned out the custard appears as a crust 
around it It should remain in the mould for at least twelve hours to 
stififen. Turn out on a dish, and garnish with fruit jelly. 



JULY 16. 

* All essential transgressions of ordcr^ how successful soever they may outwardly 
appear^ shall certainly he punished by inward disquietude and homefell mmnness,' — 
Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 

1. Jardiniere Soup. [ 3. Vegetables. 

2. Veal Cutlets. | 4. Windsor Pudding. 

1. Jardinilre Soup, — Cut the vegetables in the French vegetable 
cutter of any pattern you please, or shape them with the ordinary vege- 
table scoop as you like best in the form of peas, olives, etc. ; sidd the 
leaves and onions, put them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with two quarts 
(or more as required) of clear stock ; let it boil gently till the v^etables 
are done, add a lump of sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and 
serve this soup very hot 

2. Veal Cutlets. — Cut into cutlets about 2 or 3 lbs. of neck or loin of 
veal, trim them, and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y, 209 

butter; then put the cutlets in, and fry them a nice brown on both 
sides. Add two slices of lean bacon, a bunch of green onions, 10 or 12 
young carrots, a pint of green peas, a few new potatoes, 2 blades of 
pounded mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste. 
Pour in a pint of boiling water, and stew gently over a slow fire for about 
two hours. Skim off the fat when done, take out the herbs, and flavour 
the gravy with ketchup or tomato sauce. Boil the peas and potatoes 
separately^ put them to the veal, and serve. 

4. Windsor Pudding.— M til i lb. of butter ; add to it i lb. of the 
crumb of French roll or light tea-cake, the grated rind of a lemon, ^ lb. 
of chopped apples, ^ lb. of currants, ^ lb. of jar raisins stoned and 
chopped, 5 eggs well beaten, and a little salt j mix well together, and 
boil in a basin or mould 3 hours. 

JULY 17. 

* Education is not that which smothers a Jtfoman with iucomplishmeiitSf but that which 
tends to consolidate a firm and regular system of character — that which tetids to form a 
friend^ a companion, and a wife.'' — HANNAH MORE. 



1. Holy Land Soup. 

2. Roasted Fillet of Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Queen's Pudding. 



1. Holy Zand Soup. — Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem 
artichokes, three tiunips, one onion, and a head of celery ; put them 
into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them 
boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them 
through a sieve ; if the purie be too thick, thin it with a little fresh 
milk ; boil all together again ; season it with a spoonful of sugar, pepper, 
salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot, with some fried 
bread served separately, cut into very small dice. 

2. Roasted Fillet of Veal. — Cut out the bone and truss the fillet for 
roasting; stuff it with veal stuffing under the udder fat; spit, paper, and 
roast it When done, cut a round piece out of the middle. Keep the 
fillet hot, and mince what was taken out, with the addition of a 
couple of yolks of eggs and a little finely<hopped lemon-peel ; pour 
it into the hole where it was cut out; sprinkle bread-crumbs over; 
brown them with the salamander, and serve with bec/ianiel vind^i the 
joint 

4. QtuerCs Pudding. — ^Take \ lb. of fresh butter, beat it to a cream, 
and mix with an equal quantity of powdered loaf sugar. After these 
have been well beaten together, add the yolks and then the whites 
(which have been whisked apart) of 5 eggs. Strew in lightly \ lb. of 

o 



2IO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fine, well-sifted flour, and, above that, i lb. of stoned raisins. Boil 
3 hours in a buttered mould or pudding<loth, and serve with wine or 

punch sauce. 

— i^ — 



JULY 18. 

' The affections of a husband are never to be reqtuned by reproaches or sullen 

behaviour.*— Maintenoh. 



1. Vegetable Mulligatawny. 

2. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. 



3. Green Peas. 

4. West Riding PuDDiNa 



1. V^dable Mulligatawny, — Put the butter into a frying-pan, slightly 
brown it; add the marrows cut up and freed from seeds, two laige 
onions, three or four apples peeled and cored, the tomatoes if in season, 
and the cucumber cut up, taking care not to put any of the seeds in. 
Stew these gently until tender, then add the curry powder ; salt to taste. 
Let this simmer a quarter of an hour longer, adding sufficient good stock 
to cover them. Reduce it all to a pulp, and press it through a sieve ; 
put the liquid into a fresh stewpan j take as much stock as will make it 
the required thickness. Add a squeezed lemon if baked, and serve the 
soup as hot as possible. 

2. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. — Let the saucepan be perfectly dean; wash 
the knuckle well ; place four wooden ^kewers at the bottom of the pot to 
prevent the meat burning ; lay in your veal with two or three blades of 
mace, an onion, a little whole pepper, a sprig of thyme, and some salt, 
with two quarts of water ; cover it dose, and let it simmer gently for 
two hours ; when done enough, lay it in a dish, and strain the broth 
over it 

3. Green Peas. — ^Take young green peas, shell and wash them ; put 
into a stewpan enough butter to keep them from burning, but no water; 
season with a little pepper and salt ; stir them well about every now 
and then to see they do not bum ; if too dry, put in a little more butter, 
cover dose, and let them simmer till slightly broken; take them up 
in a hot colander, which keep hot while draining. Serve them very 
hot 

4. West Riding Pudding, — Peel, and core, and mince fine 3 or 4 
dressing apples. To \ lb. of minced apple add same quantity of l»ead- 
crumbs and nicely-deaned currants, ^ lb. or 6 oz. of sugar, and half a 
nutmeg grated. Beat up 4 eggs, and mix the whole together. This 
pudding may be either boiled in a buttered mould or basin, or baked in 
a dish with a rim of paste on the edge. It will take rather more than 
an hour to boil. Serve with sweet sauce For variety, 4 oz. of whole 
rice boiled soft in milk may be used instead of the breadcrumbs. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 9\\ 



JULY 19. 

' Your judgment wiU be seen in joining frugality and simplicity together; in being 
never fond cf finery ; in carefully distinguishing between what is glaring and what is 
gnUed; in presaving degance with the plainest habit ; in wearing costly array but 
sddoniy and always with ecue, — a point that may be attained by her who has learnt not 
to think more highly of herself for the richest raimetit she can put on* — Rev. James 
FORDYCE, D.D. ' 



1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets. 

2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon 

Pie. 



3. Stewed Cucumber. 

4. Curate Pudding. 



1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets, — Cut two or three slices of salmon about 
an inch thick ; rub a little oil or butter over them, and a dust of pepper 
and salt Put them on a gridiron over a veiy clear fire ; turn them 
occasionally until done, rubbing a little butter over them each time they 
are turned. When quite dressed, place them on a hot dish, and pour 
over them caper, tomato, or brown butter sauce. 

2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon Fie, — Line the bottom of a pie-dish 
with i^ lbs. of rump-steak cut into pieces about 3 inches square, sea- 
soning it well with pepper and salt Clean the pigeons, rubbing them 
with salt and pepper inside and out, putting rather more than ^ oz. of 
butter into the body of each bird ; lay them on the steak, and put a 
slice of ham on each. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, and half fill the dish 
with stock. Put puff paste round the edge of the dish ; put on the 
cover ; and put three of the feet, cleaned, in a hole at top of the crust 
Brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in about i^ hours in a 
well-heated ovea Pounded mace may be added to the seasoning, if 
liked, and each pigeon covered with a piece of fat bacon to keep them 
moist 

3. Stewed Cucumber, — Select straightly-grown cucumbers for this 
purpose ; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters long-ways ; 
take away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain ; when 
perfectly dry, cover them with flour ; melt ^ lb. of fi-esh butter in the 
frying-pan ; when it boils, put in the vegetables, and firy them till they 
are of a light brown ; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set 
them on a sloping slab to drain off the fat Have ready some rich 
beef gravy, in which onions have been used ; put the cucumbers into a 
stewpan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite 
tender. Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the 
gravy with floor and butter, season it to your taste with salt and 
pepper, boil it, and pour it quite hot over the slices. 

4. Curate Pudding, — ^Take two eggs in their shells, their weight in 
sugar, flour, and batter ; pound and sift the sugar, beat the butter to a 



212 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

cream, then beat in the sugar, next the eggs one by one, then add the 
flour ; beat all together ten minutes. Butter four earthenware tea-cups, 
and divide the batter equally into them ; bake half an hour, turn them 
out, and serve with wine sauce over them. 



JULY 20. 

' True dignity abides with her alone 
IVho, in the silent hour of inward thought^ 
Can still respect and still revere herself 
In lowliness of heart,* — Wordsworth. 

4. Yorkshire FuDDiNa 

5. Currant Fritters. 



1. Broiled Mackerel. 

2. Sirloin of Beef. 

3. Vegetables. 



1. Broikd Mackerel, — Open the fish quite flat at the belly, but do not 
take out the backbone. Do not wash, but wipe them dry, inside and 
out Dust the inside with a little pepper and salt, and a few small 
pieces of butter. Broil (or fry) them first on the skinny, then on the 
fleshy side. Serve hot in a tureen the sauce made as follows : Put a 
tumblerful of water, a spoonful of flour, chopped parsley, a lump of 
butter, and chervil or chives, the juice of a lemon, a few peppercorns, 
and a little salt Bring it gradually up to the boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly in the same direction. 

2. Sirloin of Beef. — It should be covered with clean paper, well 
basted, and sent to table with newly-made mustard, soluble horseradish, 
some mealy potatoes, and now and then, by way of variety, a well-made 
Yorkshire pudding. 

4. Yorkshire Pudding, — ^Whisk up 4 eggs, then add 3 spoonfuls of 
salt, mix gradually 8 table-spoonfuls of fine flour with i^ pints of new 
milk, add the eggs, etc. ; put a tin dish under your joint ; let it become 
quite hot, and well covered with the fat of the meat ; two hours before 
dinner, pour the batter into the tin, turn the pudding every half hour, 
so as to have both sides well browned; be careful to brush away 
immediately any coal or cinders that may fall out, or the appearance of 
the pudding will be destroyed. 

5. Currant Fritters, — Make a light batter, with \ lb. of fine flour, 4 
pint of milk, and 2 fresh eggs, sugar according to taste, part of a nutm^ 
grated. Put a small tea-cupful of the batter into a frying-pan, with 
scalding fresh butter ; place as many separate fritters in the pan as it 
will hold, and add the quantity of currants over them, according to 
fancy. When done, strew sugar over them, and serve quite hot Quince 
or apple marmalade may be used instead of currants, if preferred. 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 213 



JULY 21. 

*Lave is an image of God, the Irving essence of the divine nature which beams full of 

aU goodness J — Martin Luther. 

I. Lobster Stewed. I 3. Vegetables. 

4. Veal Cutlets a la Maintenon. | 4. Fruit Fritters. 

1. Lobster Stewed. — Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that 
has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, 2 spoonfuls of any 
sort of gravy, i of soy, or walnut ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and 
a spoonful of port Stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as 
above. 

2. Veal Cutlets i la Maintenon, — Chop some parsley, mushrooms, and 
a little shaloty and put into a stewpan with fat bacon cut into dice, and 
a Httle butter ; pass these over the fire for a few minutes, and put in the 
cutlets (which should be cut rather thicker than for the last) to stew a 
short time with the herbs without being allowed to be quite done, and let 
them cooL Spread over each cutlet, with the herbs and bacon they were 
done in, seasoned with pepper and salt, to which may be added a few 
bread-crumbs ; fold each up in buttered paper, and broil them over a slow 
fire. Serve them with mushroom, //^2/a;i/, or Italian sauce in a boat 

4. Fruit Fritters. — Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, of whatever 
richness you desire ; stir into it either raspberries, currants, or any other 
firuit Fry in hot lard the same as pancakes. 



JULY 22. 
* Duti<:s are ours ; events are God's. * — Cecil. 

1, Red Mullets. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Roast Goose. I 4. Fritters of Pine Apple. 

1. Red Mullets. — ^Take 3 red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven, 
^th 4 spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, a little pepper, and salt. 

Put into a deep saut^-pan a table-spoonful of chopped shalot, the 
same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of 
claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. 
^Tien the fish is baked, pour this sauce over them. 

2. Roast Goose. — Having paid due attention to the cleaning, picking, 
and singeing of the bird, let the following stuffing be prepared : — ^Two 
oz. of undressed onions, and i of sage leaves, must be first chopped 
small ; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper, 
must be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the whole 



214 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

moistened with the yolk and white of an egg well whisked. In putting 
the stuffing into the bird, give it space wherein to swell, under the 
action of the fire ; when you have put the goose upon the spit, secure 
the neck and pope's nose with twine, to prevent the stuffing from falling 
out^ and to keep the bird steady. A large goose will require somewhat 
more than an hour and a half s roasting ; be sure it be well basted, and 
sent to table of a rich brown hue, with a boatful of gravy sauce, another 
of apple sauce, and some newly-made mustard. 

4. Fritters of Pine Apple. — ^To a large table-spoonful of flour, stir \ 
oz. of butter melted to a cream; add \ salt-spoonful of salt, and moisten 
with sufficient warm cream to make it a proper consistency. Stir it 
well, rubbing down any lumps ; add the yolks and then the whites of 2 
eggs which have been well whisked ; beat up the batter again just 
before using. Pare a pine apple with as little waste as possible, and 
cut it into rather thin slices, soaking them for four hours in a small 
wine-glassfiil of brandy or liqueur, and 2 oz. pounded sugar. Dip the 
pine apples in the batter (mixed as above), and fry them in boiling lard 
from five to eight minutes ; turn them when sufficiently brown on one 
side, drain them before the fire ; when done (from the lard), place them 
on a white d'oyley, with sifted sugar strewed over them, and serve very 
hot When pine apples are plentiful, this is an inexpensive dish. 

— — 

JULY 2 8. 

* '7m hope^ and joy ^ and memory ^ give 
A honu in which the heart can live* — CONDER. 



1. Salmon. 

2. Calf's Heart. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Cu&iLANT Fritters. 



1. Salmon, — In purchasing salmon avoid split fish, and select the 
middle part in preference. Be sure that the kettle contains sufficient 
water to cover the fish ; when it boils, put in a good handfiil of salt, and 
as the scum rises skim it carefully off; then put in the fish, properly 
secured with twine or tape, and boil gently in the proportion of a 
quarter of an hour to every lb. of salmon. 

A Wrinkle. — Instead of sherry or Madeira, usually taken after fish, 
drink claret when you have eaten salmon, and it will be allowed that 
the true flavour of the wine has never been tasted in greater per- 
fection. 

2. Calfs Heart. — Instead of the usual method of stuffing and 
roasting, the heart should be cut open and broiled like a beefsteak. 
When thoroughly done, rub a bit of fresh butter over it, and pour into 



BILL OF FARE FOR JUL K 215 

the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketchup, with some soluble 
cayenne. 

4. Currant Fritters. — ^Put 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs to i pint of 
milky mix with it \ pint of bread-crumbs grated fine, a little nutmeg, 6 
oz. of currants, \ lb. of butter melted, a little salt, and floiu: sufficient 
to make it of a moderate thickness ; fry the size of fritters. 

— — 

JULY 24. 

* Do what thou dost as if the earth were heaven^ 
And that thy last day were the judgment-day? — Canon Kingsley. 



1. Stewed Plaice. 

2. Boiled Chicken Pudding. 



3. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

4. Paste Fritters. 



1. Slewed Plaice, — Cut 4 or 5 plaice into pieces about two inches 
wide, salt them, and let them remain fifteen minutes. Slice and fiy a 
light brown 2 onions, and put in the stewpan ; put the fish on the top of 
them (without washing), and add \ pint of water, \ oz. ground ginger, 
and I pint of lemon-juice. Do not let the fish boil, or it will break, 
but cook slowly for half an hour. Take it out, add 6 eggs well beaten 
to the liquor when cool, then simmer till it thickens, and pour it over 
the fish. 

2. BoiUd Chicken Pudding, — Let the chickens be fasted and killed. 
At the end of twenty-four hours cut them yxg. Cut off the wings at the 
first joint from the body. Begin at the end of the breast-bone, bring it 
down in one clean cut to the wing-joint on each side ; this gives two 
wings. Take off the merrythought, remove the legs and divide them, 
giving the thigh and the drumstick. Let the carcase lie sideways on the 
table, and divide it fi'om end to end, separating the back firom the 
breast; cut the back in half, crossways, and flatten the two pieces; 
serve the breast the same. Season according to taste. Take some 
mild bacon, and cut very thin slices. Make a suet crust, put it in a 
basin, place your joints of chicken and a few slices of bacon in the 
basin, tie it up in a cloth, and boil slowly for a long time. Turn it out 
when done. Chickens that are too small to roast or boil are very nice 
eaten in this way. The addition of a couple of kidneys is an improve- 
ment 

3. Jertisalem Artichokes, — ^These are usually plain-boiled, cut, and 
peeled, and served with parsley and butter; but a great improvement 
in their flavour will be obtained by baking them in their coats for about 
twenty minutes, then peeling and cutting them into slices of about two- 
tenths of an inch, and warming them up in a rich brown sauce, well 



3i6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Pcute Fritters, — Roll some puff paste very thin, put into it mar- 
malade or any other sweetmeat, roll up in what form you please and in 
different shapes, fry in butter, and sift a little powdered sugar over. 



JULY 28. 

Consider everlasting eonsequenca ; contemplate approaching judpnent,^-^ 

Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Salmon. 

2. Roast Pigeons. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Tapioca PuDDiNa 



1. Salmon, — ^Take 2 slices of salmon, and lay them in a baking-dish ; 
put some pieces of butter over them ; add salt, pepper, and grated nut- 
meg, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, i shalot, rubbing a little of 
it into the fish. Baste frequently. Take out when done (in about 
three-quarters of an hour) ; drain it ; lay it on a hot dish, and pour over 
it either tomato or caper sauce. 

2. Eoast Pigeons, — Pick, draw, and truss them, keeping on the feet 
Chop the liver with some parsley ; add crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, 
and a little butter ; put this stuffing inside. Slit one of the legs, and 
slip the other through it; skewer and roast them for half an hour; 
baste them well with butter. Serve with brown gravy in a boat, and 
bread sauce. 

4. Tapioca Pudding, — ^Wash and pick \ lb. of tapioca very clean, put 
it in a saucepan on the fire with cold water ; when it has boiled two or 
three minutes, strain it ; then return it into the pan, with i pint of new 
milk. Boil gently till the milk is nearly soaked up, then pour out to 
cool, and stir in 2 oz. of butter ; add sugar and nutmeg to taste ; the 
yolks of 5 and whites of 2 eggs well beaten, and a table-spoonful of 
rose or orange-flower water ; butter a dish, and put puff paste round 
the edge, and bake. It is very good boiled 



JULY 26. 

* Serve all^ and lave but oiu, ' — Balzac 



1. Boiled Mackerel. 

2. Pickled Pork Stew. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Omelette Soxjfflee. 



I. Boiled Mackerel, — Empty by an orifice near the gills, made as 
small as possible, leaving the roes in their place. Twenty minutes after 
boiling is generally long enough to simmer them. Serve on a napkin, 



BILL 01' FARE FOR JULY. 217 

on a bed of green fennel leaves, with either gooseberry, fennel, anchovy, 
or shrimp sauce. 

2. Fickied Fork Sirw, — Put 2 lbs. of streaky bacon or pickled pork 
into a saucepan with i gallon of water, and cut up 2 lbs. of thoroughly- 
washed white cabbage, from which the stalks have been removed ; cut up 
2 large onions, a carrot, a turnip, a head of celery, and a quart of green 
peas, and let the whole boil for three or four hours, removing the scum. 
Skim off all the fat, and season with a little pepper dnd brown sugar; 
salt is seldom necessary. Cut i lb. of bread in slices, and lay it in the 
tureen ; pour over the soup, and close the vessel for ten minutes ; then 
serve. 

4. Otneldte Soufflee. — Break up 6 eggs ; separate the whites from the 
yolks ; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon-peel, and 
4 ot finely-powdered sugar ; whisk up the whites for ten minutes ; add 
the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt \ lb. of butter in a pan, 
and put in the eggs. As soon as they are quite set, slant the frying- 
pan and turn them over. Serve on a dish well buttered, strew powdered 
sugar over the omelet, and bro^vn the top with a salamander. 



JULY 27. 

* Paradise is always where love dwells.^ — RiCHTER. 

1. Fricasseed Soles. | 3. Green Peas. 

2. Roast Ducks. | 4. Lemon Dumplings. 

1. Fricasseed Soles, — Buy 3 soles (2 good-sized and i small) ; fry 
the large pair of a nice brown, and drain them well from fat Chop 
quite fine all the meat from the small sole, i tea-spoonful of (chopped) 
parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon, a little grated bread, and 
seasoning. Work all together with the yolk of i egg and 2 oz. of 
butter; make into small balls, and fiy them. Thicken \ pint of good 
gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour ; add some cayenne, lemon-juice, 
^d 2 table-spoonfuls of port wine. Lay in the soles and balls ; simmer 
gently for five minutes ; garnish with cut lemon, and serve hot. 

2. Roast Ducks, — See that the birds be properly picked, and after 
<lniwing let the interior be carefully cleaned with a soft towel. Boil a 
couple of onions in two waters, and then chop them up very small ; 
half a tea-cupful will be sufficient Mix the onion with about one-half 
tile quantity of fresh sage leaves, 2 oz. of finely-powdered bread-crumbs, 
2 spoonful of salt, and the third of a spoonful of soluble cayenne ; beat 
up the yolk of an t%%^ and rub the stuffing materials well together in it 
With a brisk fire, five-and-thirty minutes* roasting will be sufficient 
Serve with gravy sauce. 



2i8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Lemon Dumplings. — Eight oz. of beef suet, 10 oz. of bread-crumbs, 

6 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of a large lemon grated off, and the 

juice of half a one. Make into 6 dumplings. They are best put into 

cups or basins. Boil three-quarters of an hour, and serve with brandy 

sauce. 

— <> — 

J ULY 28. 
* Everything aoerdone is liable to juspkum,*—REV. James Fordyce, D.D. 

1, Fillets of Salmon. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Rump of Beef Bilaized. | 4. Oxford Dumplings. 

1. Jnllgfs of Salmon, — Cut about i^ or 2 lbs. of salmon into small 
fillets, removing them from the bone with a sharp knife. Carefully 
take away all the skin j dip each fillet into a well-beaten egg, then into 
breadcrumbs, and fiy them a light colour in some boiling dripping or 
lard. Dish them up, and pour over them some Indian sauce. 

2. Rump of Beef Braized, — Prepare a rump of beef as for the last, 
and stew it tender in a braize, with fire under and over. Drain it 
when done ; glaze the top, and put it inside the oven or before the 
fire to dry ; take it out, glaze it again twice, and serve with vegetables 
prepared as for bouilli beef boiled in consommt^ and put round with a 
few heads of nice greens. 

4. Oxford Dumplings, — ^Take 2 oz. of grated bread, 4 oz. of butter, 
4 oz. of currants, 2 large spoonfuls of flour, a dessert-spoonfiil of grated 
lemon-peel, and a little pimento or ginger in fine powder. Mix with 
2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fiy them in butter on a 
slow fire, of a fine yellow brown. When made with double the quan- 
tity of flour instead of bread, they are very good. They may also be 
made of eggs with biscuits, leaving out the whites, and made up into 
balls about the size of an egg, rubbed over with the yolks, and fried a 
light brown. 



JULY 29. 

• On Cod's eternal did 
GotVs eternal sunbeams shine, 

Bdieve in God'—TKOUAS CoOPES. 



1. Red Mullet Baked. 

2. White Fricassee of Rabbit. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Sweet Omelet. 



I. Red Mullet Baked, — Fold each mullet in oiled or well-buttered 
paper; tie the ends, pass the string over tliem, and bake in a small 



BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 219 

dish in a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from 
the fish with a piece of butter, a little flour, a tea-spoonful of essence of 
anchovies, a glass of port or sherry, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Boil it, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and the fish in their paper cases. 

2. White Fricassee of Rabbit — Be careful to take away all the interior 
of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut off the heads ; wash 
them repeatedly in cold water till the flesh is perfec£ly white. Put 
them into a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up 
again, take out the rabbits and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint 
of milk with flour and butter ; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, 
salt, and white pepper ; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover 
carefully down, and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should 
be as thick as cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed 

4. Sweet Omelet. — To i gill of cream or good milk put 4 well-beaten 
eggs, sugar, nutmeg, or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt ; fiy a nice 
light brown on a slow fire ; sift fine sugar over. 



JULY SO. 

*Iftke vforld he in the middle of the hearty it will be often shaken^ for all there is eon- 
timial motion and chan^; dtU God in it keeps it stable,* — Archbishop Leighton. 



1. Pea Soup. 

2. Pork Kabob. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Shropshire Dumplings. 



I. Pea Soup. — One pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 
^ge onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet 
herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few bones 
or tiny pieces of bacon ; flavour it nicely ; pepper and salt to your taste. 
Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender ; 
strain them through a hair-sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it 
Then boil the soup well for an hoiu: with the best part of the celery 
2nd a tea-spoonful of pepper ; add a little dried mint and fried bread, 
vith a little spinach. 

3. Pork Kabob. — Select four pork chops, not too fiit ; peel a couple of 
dumpling apples, and cut a couple of slices from the centre of each, 
avoiding the core ; cut a Spanish onion into slices, select four of the 
^est ; attach with small skewers to each chop a slice' of apple and a 
slice of onion; fasten them together with twine, and roast before a 
Mght fire for half an hour, basting well. Serve them quite hot, with 
some fresh mustard, soluble cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 

4* Shropshire Dumplings. — Rub about 3 oz. of butter into 2 lbs. of 
floor; add a little salt and a few currants ; mix them up in rather a stiff 



220 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

paste with water that has had a Hitie yeast stirred in it. Cover it, and 
let it stand an hour or two; then make up the dumplings about the 
usual size of yeast dumplings, and boil them about twenty minutes. 
Serve with melted butter and sugar. 



JULY 81. 

' Sure He that made us with such lar^ discourse^ 
Looking before and a/ter^ gave us not 
That capability and Cod-like reason 
To rust in us i^frtij/^.'— Shakspearb. 



X. Salmon Pudding. 
2. Haricot of Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Souffle Pudding. 



T. Salmon Pudding, — Take i to } lb. of cold boiled salmon ; put it 
into a mortar ; pound it fine, with 4 02. of crumb of bread soaked in 
milk and squeezed dry, or 3 oz. of flour may be used instead ; add the 
yolks of 5 eggs, i oz. of butter, a little essence of anchovy, and about 
half a pint of milk, or part milk and cream, and mix the whole welL 
Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; put it into a 
well-buttered mould ; steam or boil one hour. Serve with white sauce 
in which a little essence of anchovy has been mixed, or, instead of 
anchovy, add some chopped capers and a little vinegar, or with cucum- 
ber sauce. Any fish pudding may be made in the same manner ; or, if 
made into a firm paste, it may then be formed into cutlets, egged, 
bread-crumbed, and fried, and served as a side dish with either of the 
above-named sauces, or with sliced cucumbers. 

2. Haricot of Mutton. — Scrape and cut into thin slices 2 good-sized 
carrots; put these into a saucepan containing 2 quarts ot boiling 
water ; let it simmer over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Meanwhile 
pare and cut into squares, the size of dice, 2 turnips ; add a head of 
celery cut small, and a little pepper and salt. Whilst the vegetables 
, are stewing, put half a dozen mutton chops, with their fat cut ofif and 
well flattened, into the frying-pan, with sufficient butter to fiy them a 
light brown, without risk of burning. When this is accomplished, 
put the meat with the vegetables, and let all stew together for half 
an hour. 

4 Souffle Pudding, — Put three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a 
stewpan, and when it boils add 2 spoonfuls of flour mixed smooth with 
a little milk ; boil it up again, and set it to cool. Then take the yolks 
of 3 eggs well beaten ; stir them in, and the whites whipped to a very 
stiff froth. When all are thoroughly well mixed together, butter a 
baking-dish, put it in, and bake it in a quick oven. 



DESSERT FOE JULY. 221 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JULY. 

Vases of flowers and baskets of fresh fruits of the season in the middle 

ol the table. 



X. Glaces aux Abricots. 

2. Compote de Prunes. 

3. Compote DE Melon. 

4. Currant Cakes, Clear. 

5. Compote de Framboises. 

6. Cerises Groseillees. 

7. Compote of Greengages. 

8L Black, Red, or White Currant 
Jelly. 



9. Massepains aux Fruits. 

10. Glaces de Creme au The. 

11. Pistachio Cream. 

12. Pain de Prusse. 

Glaces a la Creme Blanche, 
Bonbons, Dried Fruits, Pe- 
tits Baisers, etc 



1. GLACES AUX ABRICOTS. 

Stone your apricots; pulp them through a sieve; put to them an 
equal weight of clarified sugar ; and to each pound of this composition 
add half a dozen blanched apricot kernels infused for two hours in the 
juice of a lemon and a little water. Work well together, put it into the 
ice-poty and freeze it gradually. 

2. COMPOTE DE PRUNES. 

Take of any kind of ripe plums sufficient to make a good-sized dish. 
If you purpose to have them stoned, remove the stone as carefully as 
you can from the stem end of the fruit. Should the plums be of a 
large kind, they should be first scalded, and afterwards immersed in 
cold water. Small fruit may at once be placed in an earthen pipkin, 
with a syrup made with their weight of loaf sugar, a wine-glassful of 
white brandy, and enough water to float them in. Do them as slowly 
as possible, and as soon as they are tender place them in your com- 
pote dish, and pour over them the syrup when cooled. 

3. COMPOTE DE MELON. 

Cut a good- sized melon into rather thick slices ; take away the rind 
and the seeds ; divide each slice into square pieces, then round them 
so as to resemble large apricots. Prepare a strong syrup of sugar and 
water ; throw in your melon ; withdraw it from the fire ; cover it down 
close, and let it remain some time to infuse ; then let it come quickly 



222 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

to a boil, take it up, axrange it in your glass dessert-dish ; skim and 
reduce the syrup, and when a little cooled pour it over the fruit 

4. CURRANT CAKESy CLEAR. 

Strain some fresh currant-juice through a gauze sieve ; put 18 oz. of 
the finest loaf sugar in powder to every pint of juice. Put it into 
a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it until it nearly boils ; skim it 
carefully ; withdraw it from the fire, and put it into small shallow trays, 
which should be first rubbed over with greased muslin. Keep them in 
a dry warm place till they will turn out of the moulds, then place them 
in a very slack oven to harden. Put them between paper to pack them 
for use. 

5. COMPOTE DE FRAMBOISES. 

Take a quart of either red or white raspberries ; carefully stem them 
without bruising the fruit; place them in a stewpan, and pour upon 
them a boiling syrup, made with a pound of loaf sugar and half a pint 
of water; put them over the fire, and let them just come to a boil; 
withdraw them, and when cool enough, put them into your compotier, 
and pour the syrup over them. 

6. CERISES GROSEILLEES. 

Take a pint of ripe cherries; cut off the stems to within an inch of 
the fruit ; prick them with a needle, and sift over them half a pound 
of powdered sugar. Let them stand a night Dissolve a pound of loaf 
sugar in a pint of currant juice ; when it boils, put in the cherries, and 
simmer them gently for a few minutes ; take them out with a skimmer, 
boil down the syrup until it is very thick, pour it over them, and serve 
as required. 

7. COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES. 

Boil in a pint of water a little grape juice or vinegar; take your 
greengages and prick them with a coarse needle ; throw them into the 
water ; let them boil up ; then take them out, and throw them into cold 
water. Make a strong syrup ; when it boils, put in your plums, simmer 
them for about five minutes, arrange them in a dessert-dish, reduce the 
syrup, let it cool, and pour it over the fruit 

8. BLACK, RED, OR WHITE CURRANT JELLY. 

Slightly bruise your firuit, and put it in a jar ; place tiiis in a cool 



DESSERT FOR JUL Y. 223 

oven, and pour off the juice as it collects ; strain it through fine muslin, 
and put weight for weight of fruit and siq;ar ; boil and skim it until it 
is of the proper thickness. Put it into glasses or moulds as preferred. 

9. UASSEPAINS AUX FRUITS. 

Take equal quantities of blanched almonds and powdered loaf sugar ; 
reduce the former to a paste ; add to it the sugar ; place it in a pre- 
serving-pan, and make it a thin syrup with some sjtrained juice of either 
fresh raspberries, cherries, strawberries, or currants. Stir it over the 
fire until it is a stiff paste ; pour it upon a board, roll it tolerably thin, 
form it into biscuits ; place them upon a tin, and bake them for ten 
minutes in a slow oven. Glaze the tops before they are cold. 

10. GLACES D£ CREME AU THE. 

Take 2 02. of the best green tea ; mix with it the yolks of 8 fresh 
eggs and \ lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered ; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan; stir them over the fire, and pour in by degrees a 
quart of rich cream. When it is upon the boil, withdraw it from the 
fh>e ; stir it for some minutes longer ; strain it through a fine sieve, and, 
when cold, ice it 

II. PISTACHIO CREAiL 

Put into a mortar a pound of blanched pistachio nuts, and a wine- 
glassful of brandy. Beat to a smooth paste. Add to it a quart of 
thick cream, and the beaten and strained yolks of 4 eggs. Place it 
upon a slow fire, and stir it until it is sufficiently thick. Pile it high 
in a glass dessert-dish, or put it into small glasses. When cold, decorate 
it with neatly-cut pieces of pistachio nuts ; or you may put it into your 
ice-pot and freeze it if preferred. 

12. PAIN DE PRUSSE. 

Beat 2 eggs; add to them a pinch of salt and half a tea-spoonful 
of powdered caraways. Gradually dredge in 6 oz. of flour and 3 of 
powdered loaf sugar. Mix thoroughly together ; roll out the paste ; 
form it into thin slabs similar to gingerbread in shape ; glaze the top, 
and mark them into narrow divisions with the back of a knife. 



AUGUST 1. 
■ Prudetue pnfcrls aiid guides ui, wit bitrayi; 
A tplendid leuret cf ill, a Ikeusand loays ; 
A certain man ef misery immenie ; 
A gay prtrog-it'eoe from common sense; 
Unlfss tireng pidgmmt Ihe wild thing can tame. 
And break to paths of virtue and ef fame.'— XoVtiQ. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

Meat : Buck Venison— Mutton— Beef— Veal— Lamb. 

Poultry : Fowls — Ducklings— Green Geese — Chickens — Pullets — Pigeons— Plovers 
—Wild Ducks— Turkey Poulls— Wheitears. 

Game : Grouse— Blackcock— Rabbits — Levercls, 

Fish : Crayfish — Carp — Eels— Biill — Dory — Grigs — Chub — Herrings — Flounders 
— Crabs — Lobsters — Prawns — Shrimps— Soles — Mullet — Pike — Salmon — Skate 
—Trout- Sturgeon— Thomback—TurboL 

Vegetables : Cabbages — Carrots — Beans — Artichokes — Cauliflowers — Asparagus 
— Endi ve — Celery — Lettuces — C resses — Mushrooms — Onions^S ea Kale — Pota- 
toes — Peas — Turnips — Small Siliding — Sprouts — Vegetable Marrows — Various 
Kitchen Herbs— Radishes. 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 

■ants — Plums — Filberts — Melons — Grapes — Mulberries — 

—Pine Apples — Pears^Raspberries, 

I. Boiled Salmon. | 4. French Beans. 

3. Steweu Oxtails. 5. Baroness Pudding. 

3. Roast Rabbit. | 

I. BoiUd Salmon. — This fish should be firm and thick, and should be 
well cooked ; for, if underdressed, it is reckoned very unwholesome. 
■\Vhen done, it must be drained, covered over with hot cloths, but never 
allowed to remain in the fish-kettle, or it will be watery and colourless. 
Before putting it in the saucepan with cold water and salt (in the pro- 
portion of 3 oz. of salt to each half gallon of water), scale and clean it, 
being particular that no blood is left inside. Bring it quickly to a boil, 
take off all scum, simmer gently till done, which will be when you can 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 225 

easily separate the fish from the bone. This will allow for a large^ thick 
fish about eight minutes to the lb., six minutes for a thin fish. The fish 
should be served on a hot napkin, with a garnish of cut lemon and 
paisley, and lobster or shrimp sauce. 

2. Siewed Oxtails. — Cut these into joints and parboil them ; put them 
into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them ; add a spoonfiil 
of salt, a spoonful of mixed, powdered allspice, powdered mace, and 
soluble cayenne pepper, 4 cloves, and an onion chopped fine. Stew 
gently for an hour and three-quarters ; strain ofi* the liquor, boil it up, 
and pour it, quite hot, over the meat Garnish with sippets of toast, 
and serve with a fresh lemon and Reading sauce. 

5. RocLst Rabbit. — One large rabbit, pepper, salt, nutmeg, \ lb. of 
butter, 4 dessert-spoonfuls of milk, i table-spoonfiil of flour, yolks of 2 
eggs, brown gravy, the peel of half a lemon grated. 

4. French Beans. — Having boiled beans as usual, warm them up 
again in parsley and butter. 

5. Baroness Pudding. — ^Three-quarter lb. suet, } lb. raisins, weighed 
after being stoned, } lb. flour, ^ pint milk, \ salt-spoonful salt 
Mode : Prepare the suet by carefully freeing it from skin, and chop it 
finely ; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these 
ingredients with the salt and flour ; moisten the whole with the above 
proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pudding in a floured 
cloth which has been previously wrung out in boiling water. Put the 
pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil without ceasing 
four and a half hours. Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of 
which may be sprinkled over the pudding. 

Great attention must be paid to the time of boiling, which should 
never be less than that mentioned 



AUGUST 2. 

* Pleasures are like poppies spread^ 
You seite thejlcwer, its bloom is shed; 
Or like the snowfall in the river ^ 
A moment white — then melts for ever; 
Or like the borealis race. 
That flit ere you ean point their place; 
Or like the rainbow's lovely form 
Evanishing amid the storm,* — BURNS. 



1. Gaxdsn Soup. 

2. Roast Wild Ducks. 

3. Neck OF Vial. 



4. Alexandra PuDDiNa 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Garden Soup. — ^Two quarts of clear stock seasoned to taste, 4 
anall carrots, 4 small turnips, equal quantity of button onions, a head 

p 



226 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

of celery, 8 lettuce leaves, a little tarragon and chervil, i lamp of 
sugar. 

Cut the vegetables in the French vegetable-cutter of any pattern you 
please, or shape them with the ordinary vegetable scoop as you like 
best, in the form of peas, olives, etc ; add the leaves and onions, put 
them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with 2 quarts (or more as required) of 
clear stock, let it boil gently till the vegetables are done, add a lump of 
sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and serve this soup very hot 

2. Roast Wild Ducks. — ^When the ducks are trussed, spit them, and 
put them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit in rapid 
motion. Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them lighdy with 
flour, and send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good gravy 
in the dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a few indsions 
made across it with a knife, and a piece of firesh butter put on it \ 
then cut a lemon across, on one half put a litde salt, on the other a very 
small quantity of cayenne pepper; put the lemon together and squeeze 
the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and 
your ducks will be ready to carve. 

3. Neck of Veal. — Trim a neck of veal, and lard the fleshy part thickly. 
Put it into a souse for three or four hours, made with chopped paisley, 
2 or 3 shalots, thyme, sweet basil, mushrooms, bay leaves, 2 or 3 spoonfiils 
of oil, and a litde vinegar. Arrange it in an oval brazing-pan with the 
souse, and as much broth as will cover the larding ; when done, drain 
dry, glaze it lightly, and serve it with white Italian sauce, or any puree ot 
vegetables under. 

4. Alexandra Pudding. — Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and cover 
the bottom with apricot or strawberry jam; mix the bread-crumbs, 
pounded sugar, juice of the lemon, and the peel grated with the milk 
and the eggs well beaten ; beat all thoroughly together, pour it into the 
dish over the jam, and bake it. 



AUGUST 3. 

' Prudence is that virtue by which we discern what is proper to be done under the 
various circumstances of time andplace.^ — Milton. 

1. Macaroni Soup. i 3. Cabbage. 

2. Roast Ribs of Pork. | 4. Napier Pudding. 

I. Mctcaroni Soup. — Put into a stewpan of boiling water 4 oz. of 
macaroni, i oz. of butter, and an onion stuck with five cloves. "When the 
macaroni has become quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it 2 
quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking care 
that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then be 
ready to serve. It should be sent to table with grated Parmesan cheese. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 227 

2. Roast Ribs of Pork. — Score the skin, put the joint down to a 
bright fire to roast, rub a little flour over it If the rind is kept on, 
loast it without a buttered paper over it; but if the skin and fat are 
lemovedy cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently basted. 
About ten minutes before taking it up, strew over it some powdered 
sage ; froth it with a little butter, and serve with gravy strained over it, 
azid apple sauce in a tureen. 

3. Cabbage. — Have 2 large saucepans, each half filled with water, 
allowing to each half-gallon of water a tea-Spoonful of salt and a very 
small piece of soda. Let the water boil fast Cut and dean the 
cabbage, removing the stalk. Put it into one of the saucepans, and let 
it boil for eight minutes. Pass it through a cullender, and put it in 
the other saucepan of fresh boiling water ; let it boil there for ten or 
twelve minutes. Pass again through a cullender, and let it boil for the 
third time in fresh boiling water, which has been supplied from the 
boiler into the first saucepan, for ten or fifteen minutes, according to 
size. Toast a large slice of bread without crust, dip it in melted buttler 
prepared with milk, and put it on a hot dish. Drain the cabbage 
through a cullender, carefully pressing out every drop of water. Lay 
the cabbage nicely on the toast, and cover it with melted butter. 
Serve it very hot. Cabbage dressed in this way is a great delicacy. 

4. Napier Pudding. — ^Take any quantity of cup-cakes which are made 
with a spongecake mixture, and baked in buttered tea-cups, with a few 
currants strewed over the butter. These, when previously prepared, are 
to be warmed in an oven, and when quite hot placed on the dish they 
are to be served on, covered with hot melted butter, a little lemon- 
juice, white wine, and sugar. 



AUGUST 4. 

• Virfuous tove^ like true devotion, flies from noiie, seeks retreat^ and delights to 
indulge itself unobserved by all save the object of its veneration.* — Rsv. James For- 
DTCB, D.D. 

I. Tapioca Soxn». 



2. Veal Cutlets. 

3. Roast Lbveket. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. North Country Pudding. 

6. Buttered Apples. 



1. Tapioca Soup. — Boil i quait of stock ; when it is at boiling-point 
add the tapioca ; boil twenty minutes, and it is done. 

You can use sago and semolina in the same manner. 

2. Veai Cutlets, — Care should be taken that the meat be cut atleast 
half an inch thick, and well flattened with the rolling-pin ; smear them 
over with egg, and then cover them with finely-powdered bread-crumbs. 
Fiy them in fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both 



228 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

sides are well browned Send them to table with a fresh lemon and 
some mushroom ketchup. 

5. Ro<ut Leveret, — Clean and truss a leveret in the same manner as 
a hare, but roast it plain without any stuffing. Place it before a clear, 
bright fire for about three-quarters of an hour, and baste it often with 
butter. About ten minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with flour 
to froth it nicely. Serve with gravy poiured roimd it, and red currant 
jelly with it 

5. North Country Pudding, — ^Make a hasty pudding with i pint of 
milk sweetened, a little salt, and flour to make it of a proper thickness ; 
when boiled enough pour into a basin, cover with a plate, and let stand 
till the next day ; then mash well with a spoon, and add \ lb. of clari- 
fied butter, \ lb. of ciurants, and 2 oz. of candied lemon cut in thin 
slices. Bake in tea-cups buttered, turn out on a dish, and serve with 
raspberry vinegar sauce. 

6. Buttered Apples, — Pare 6 or 8 fine apples of a firm but good boil- 
ing kind, and core, without piercing through or dividing them ; fill the 
cavities with fi^sh butter ; put \ lb. more, cut small, into a stewpan just 
large enough to contain the apples in a single layer ; place them closely 
together on it, and stew them as softly as /^i'xi^/if, turning them occasion- 
ally imtil they are almost sufficiently tender to serve ; then strew upon 
them as much sifted sugar as will sweeten the dish highly, and a tea- 
spoonful of pounded cinnamon ; shake tliese well in and upon the fruit, 
and stew it for a few minutes longer. Lift it out, arrange it in a hot 
dish, put into each apple as much apricot jam as it will contain, and lay 
a small quantity on die top ; pour the syrup from the pan round, but not 
on the fruit, and serve it immediately. Particular care must be taken to 
keep the apples entire : they should rather steam in a gentle heat than boil 
If die stewpan were placed in a very slow oven, the more regular heat 
would perhaps be better in its efiect than the stewing. 



AUGUST 8. 

' Oh Hsttrs ! let us leave the shame and sin 
Oftalkinj^ vainly ^ in a plaintive mood, 
7^ holy name of grief I — holv herein. 
That by the grief of one came all our good, * — 

Mrs. £. Barrett BROWKiNa 



1. Julienne Soup. 

2. Roast Loin of Mutton. 

3. Grouse. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Hasty Pudding; 



I. Julienne 5<w/.— -Three-quarters of a lb. of carrots, turnips, celery, 
onions, and leeks ; i large cabbage-lettuce ; a litde sorrel and chervil ; 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 229 

2 oz. of butter ; 2 lumps of sugar \ 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock. 
Weigh \ lb. of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips 
of about an inch and a half long, taking care they are all the same size ; 
wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry ; then put them into 
a stewpan with the butter, and the sugar pounded Set it over a quick 
fire for a few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are 
covered with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to 
bum ; then add 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock ; cut the lettuce, 
sorrel, and chervil into pieces, and put them into the soup, and let it all 
stew gently for an hour or more. 

2. RocLst Loin of Mutton, — Roast it at a bright fire, and baste carefully 
about every quarter of an hour. Brown and froth. 

3. Grouse, — ^VVill require at least fifteen 'minutes' roasting before a 
bright fire ; these birds, if in good condition, do not require any addition 
to their own exquisite flavour, except a little gravy and a squeeze of 
lemon. 

5. Hasty Pudding, — Set some milk on the fire, and when it boils put 
in a little salt, and stir in by degrees as much flour as will make it of a 
proper thickness ; let it boil quickly a few minutes, beating it constantly 
while on the fire ; pour it into a dish, and eat it with cold butter and 
sugar, or treacle. Eggs may be used with it if preferred. 



AUGUST 6. 

' Lave is such an affectum^ as cannot so proptrly he said to he in the soul as the 

soul to he in that,^ — Bishop South. 



1. Stewed Conger. 

2. Rolled Loin of Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Norwich Pudding. 



I. Stewed Conger. — A conger eel, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, 
pepper, salt, and mace, water or broth, a little flour. 

Cut the conger into pieces as for frying, dry and flour the pieces, and 
brown them in a fiying-pan. Put them into a stewpan with a bunch of 
sweet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, seasoning of pepper and salt, and 
of spice, if it be liked, and enough water or broth nearly to cover the 
fish. Let it stew gently until it is cooked enough ; thicken the gravy 
with flour, just enough to take off the richness that may have risen to 
the top, and serve the conger with the gravy round it 

The gravy may be flavoured with tomatoes, chutney, or any other 
sauce. The stewed conger is nice with oysters ; open them, and save 
the liquor, mix it with a little flour, use it to thicken the gravy, as much 
as necessary, let it just boil up, and put in the oysters long enough for 
them to get hot 



23© THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. RoUed Lain of Mutton, — Hang a loin of mutton till tender, take 
out the bone, and lay over the meat a stuffing made as for veal ; roll it 
up tightly, fasten it with small skewers to keep it in shape, and tie it 
roimd with a string. Roast it before a brisk fire, allowing a quarter of 
an hour or twenty minutes for each pound of meat Make a gravy of 
the bones, adding to it a table-spoonfiil of ketchup and a little salt 
When the meat is done, pour the gravy made from the bones, mixed 
with the gravy firom the meat, over it, and serve with currant jelly, 
separately. 

4. Norwich Pudding. — Steep in i^ pints of cream '3 oz. of fine white 
bread-crumbs. Pound into a paste \ pint of blanched almonds in a 
small quantity of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of 4 and the 
yolks of 8 eggs with \ lb. of lump-sugar in powder. Mix these together 
with \ lb. of butter melted Stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is 
tolerably thick. Place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of 
the dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. 



AUGUST 7. 

• Send thy good before thee^ 

The whilst thou may to Heaven ; 
For better is one alms before^ 

Than bin after seven. '—Old Rhyme, 



1. Boiled Salmon. 

2. Leg of Mutton Roasted. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Boiled Lemon Pudding. 



1. Boiled Salmon. — One salmon, 4 oz. of salt to i gallon of water. 
Salmon is put into warm water instead of cold, in order to preserve its 
colour and set the curd. It should be thoroughly well dressed to be 
wholesome. Scale it ; empty and wash it with the greatest care. Do 
not leave any blood in the inside that you can remove. Boil the salt 
rapidly in the fish-kettle for a minute or two, taking off the scum as it 
rises ; put in the salmon, first trussing it in the shape of the letter S, 
and let it boil gently till it is thoroughly done. Take it from the water 
on the fish-plate, let it drain, put it on a hot folded fish-napkin, and 
garnish with slices of lemon. Sauce: shrimp or lobster. Send up 
dressed cucumber with salmon. 

2. Leg of Mutton Roasted. — ^Time, half an hour to the lb., slow method; 
a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, ordinary time. A leg of mutton 
intended for roasting can be kept much longer than for boiling, but it 
must be wiped very dry, and dusted with flour and pepper. Cut off the 
knuckle, remove the thick skin, and trim off the piece of flank. Put a 



BILL OF FARE FOR A UG UST. 231 

little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and baste the joint for a short 
time with it, then use the gravy from the meat itself, basting it every 
ten minutes. Serve it with gravy poured round it, and currant jelly, 
separately. The wether leg of mutton is the best for roasting. A leg 
of mutton, if too large, can be divided, and the knuckle boiled ; or, by 
placing a paste of flour and water over the part cut to keep in the gravy, 
it can be roasted, by which means two roast dinners can be had from the 
one joint 

4. Boiled Lemon Pudding, — Four oz. of suet finely chopped, \ lb. of 
bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon strained, with the yellow 
rind chopped veiy fine or grated 0% sugar to taste. Boil one hour in a 
well-buttered mould, and serve with sweet sauce, to which add a little 
lemon juice and wine. 



AUGUST 8. 

*DorCt tell me of to-morrow. 

There is much to do to-day 
That can never be accomplisJCa 

If we throw the hours ceway I 
Every moment has its duty. 

Who the future canforetdU 
Then why defer to-morrow 

What to-day can do as well f*—-'ELlor. 



1. Pea Soup. 

2. Roast Shoulder op Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Surrey Pudding. 



1. Fea Soup. — One pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 
laige onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet 
herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few 
bones or tiny pieces of bacon ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all 
these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender ; strain them 
through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it Then boil the 
soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery and a tea-spoonfiil 
of pepper, add a little dried mint and fried bread, with a little spinacL 
A few roast-beef bones or a slice of bacon will be an improvement 

2. Boas/ Shoulder of Mutton, — ^Time, a quarter of an hour to each lb. 
A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but simply 
rubbed with a little butter. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It 
should be well hung, and served with onion sauce. 

4. Surrey Budding. — One quart of milk, 6 oz. of ground rice, 3 eggs, 
currants, sugar, and spice to taste. The milk and rice should be boiled 
overnight, and the other ingredients mixed in the next morning. Stir 
the mixture well before putting it into the oven. 



232 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



AUGUST 9. 

' Lit nfit soft slumber close my eyes. 
Ere I have recollected thrice 
The train of actions through the day^ 
Where have my feet marKd out their tf«y.'— PYTHAGORAS. 



1. Villa Soup. 

2. Stewed Fowls. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Semolina Pudding. 



1. Villa Soup, — A pound of meat, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice^ 
a pint of whole peas, pepper and salt, a gallon of water. Cut the 
meat into slices; put one or two at the bottom of an earthen jar 
or pan; lay on it the onions sliced; then put meat again, then the 
carrots sliced. Soak the pint of peas all the previous night ; put them 
in with I gallon of water. Tie the jar down, and put it in a hot oven 
for three or four hours. 

2. Stewed Fowls, — A fowl, about a quart of mutton broth, pepper, 
salt, mace, a large cupful of rice. 

Truss the fowl for boiling, and stew it in about a quart of mutton 
broth, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace, for 
an hour and a half, skimming it often. About half an hour before the 
fowl is ready to serve, add a large cupful of rice ; and when tender, 
strain the broth from it, and place the rice on a sieve to dry and swell 
before the fire, keeping the fowl hot ; then place it in the centre of a 
hot dish, with the rice arranged in rather a high border round it 
Serve parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. 

4. Semolina Pudding, — A pint and a half of new milk, half a tea-cup- 
ful of semolina, orange marmalade. 

Put a pint and a half of milk over the fire, and when boiling stir in 
half a cupful of semolina, and continue to stir it over the fire for 
ten n:unutes ; then put it into a mould to cool ; turn it out, and serve 
with jam or marmalade round it It is delicious iced 

— — 
AUGUST 10. 

• IVe need not bid^for cloistered cell, 
Our neighbour and our worh farewell: 
The trivial rouftd, the common tash. 
May furnish all we ought to ask — 
Room to deny ourselves, a road 
To bring us, daily, nearer CodJ* — Akon. 



1. Cock-a-Leekie. 

2. Stewed Neck of Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. German PuDDiNa 



I. Cock-a-Leekie. — ^Time, three or four hours. One fowl, 3 bunches 
of winter leeks, pepper and salt, and 5 quarts of medium stock. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 233 

Well wash the leeks, take ofif part of the heads and the roots, scald 
them in boiling water for five or six minutes, and then cut them into 
small pieces. Put a fowl, trussed as for boiling, into a stewpan with 
the pieces of leek, a little pepper and salt, and nearly 5 quarts of 
stock. Let the whole simmer very slowly at the comer of the fire for 
three or four hours, keeping it well skimmed. When ready to serve, 
take out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, place them in a tureen, 
and pour the leeks and the broth over them (the leeks being made 
into 2ipurU)y as the soup should be very thick of leeks. 

This soup is greatly improved by warming it up a second time. 

2. Stewai Neck of Mutton. — Time, two and a half to three hours. 
Four or 5 lbs. of neck of mutton, rather more than a pint of water, a 
little cayenne pepper and salt, two sprigs of parsley. 

4. German Pudding, — Mix \ lb. of flour with \ lb. of butter, and the 
same weight of loaf sugar ; beat up 4 eggs in \ pint of milk ; stir all 
the materials well together, then divide into 4 parts. Bake in tea-cups, 
and serve with sweet sauce or white wine. 



AUGUST 11. 

*Shun ddays, they breed remorse; 

Take thy time whUe time is lent thee: 
Creeping snails have weakish force — 

Fly their faulty lest thou repent thee: 
Good is best when sooner wrought, 
Lin^ ring labours come to nought,* — SOUTHWELL, 159$. 



X. Roast Pigeons. 
2. Fillet OP Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding. 



1. Roast Pigeons. — ^Time, twenty minutes to half an hour. Some 
pigeons, \ lb. of butter, pepper and salt. 

Well wash and thoroughly clean the pigeons ; wipe them dry ; season 
them inside with pepper and salt, and put a good-sized piece of butter 
into the body of each bird. Roast them before a clear, bright fire, 
basting them well the whole oi the time. Serve them with gravy and 
bread sauce. 

2. Fillet of Mtdton. — ^Time, two hours. Take off the chump end of 
a loin of mutton, and cover it with 2 sheets of buttered paper as for 
venison ; roast it for two hours, but do not allow it to become the least 
brown. Have ready some French beans, boiled tender, and well drained 
from the water on a sieve. While the mutton is being glazed, warm 
them up in the gravy, put them on a dish, and serve the meat on them. 

4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding. — Melt 2 oz. of tresh butter in a clean 



234 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

saucepan ; when melted, stir in with a spoon sufficient flour to make a 
stifif paste; then add, by degrees, 4 eggs well beaten, and form the 
whole into a smooth batter ; gradually add i pint of milk in which 6 
oz. of loaf sugar has been dissolved, with i oz. of grated Jamaica 
ginger, and 2 oz. of preserved ginger cut into small dice. Well butter 
a mould or basin, and decorate it to fancy with dried cherries or stoned 
raisins, and citron-peel cut thin, and in various shapes. Fill the mould 
or basin with the preparation, covered with buttered paper, and steam 
one hour, or boil it for about the same length of time in a saucepan 
with water about half the height of the mould or basin. When done, 
turn it out^ and serve with sweet sauce. 



AUGUST 12. 

* Hoist up sail while gaie doth last. 

Tide and wind stay no man* s pleasure ! 
Seek not time, when time is past. 
Sober speed is wisdom* s leisure, ' 
After-wits are dearly bought. 
Let thy fore-wit guide thy thoughtsJ^—SOJJTKWELL, 1595. 



1. Autumnal Broth. 

2. Grilled Fowl. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Napoleon's Pudding. 



1. Autumnal Broth, — ^Time, three hours. Nine or ten pints of 
water, ^ lb. of barley, a quarter of a peck of green peas, i small 
turnip, 2 carrots, a litde parsley, i onion, 4 lbs. of mutton, i tea-spoonful 
of salt, I of pepper. Cut into small pieces the turnip, carrot, and 
onion (after well washing them), and put the meat in first. Skim the 
pot till no more scum rises, then add the vegetables. Any one of the 
vegetables may be omitted except the green peas. 

2. Grilled Fowl, — Cut the remains of cold fowl into pieces ; season 
them with pepper and salt ; squeeze over them the juice of half a 
lemon, and let them stand for three-quarters of an hour; wipe Aem 
dry; dip them into clarified butter, and then into bread-crumbs, wi& 
a little lemon-peel grated. Put them on a gridiron and broil them over 
a clear fire. When fried instead of broiled, use the yolk of egg well 
beaten instead of the clarified butter. 

4. NapoleotCs Pudding, — Wash and pick sufficient rice to fill the 
dish to be used (^ lb. will fill a quart dish). Boil it very soft in milk, 
or milk and water, over a gentle fire, taking care it does not bum ; to 
prevent this, it should be stirred occasionally. Two oz. of butter may 
be added to the rice while boiling, or before it is taken fix)m the fire. 
When done, place it aside to cool, stirring in 2 or 3 eggs well beaten 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 235 



just before using, as follows : — ^Line a flat dish with puff paste, and 
over the bottom put a layer of rice, on this a thin layer of raspberry or 
other preserve, continuing in this way until the dish is full Bake it in 
a moderate oven from a half to three-quarters of an hour. It may be 
eaten hot or cold, and much improved if a rich custard be poured over 
the top. 



AUGUST 13. 

' Tiffte wears all his locks before. 
Take thou hold upon his forehead: 
When hi flees he turns no more^ 

And behind his scalp is naked. 
Works adjourned have many stays. 
Long demurs breed new <&Azyx.'— SoUTHWBLL» 1595. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Saddle of Mutton. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Plum-pudding. 

5. Blancmange. 



X. Fritd Soles. — Time, eight minutes. Two soles, i egg, a few 
bread-crumbs. 

Remove the skin from the dark side of the soles ; clean them, and 
wipe them dry, and dredge a little flour over them ; brush them over 
with the yolk of a well-beaten egg ; dip them into bread-crumbs, and 
fry them of a light brown, in sufficient boiling fat for them to swim in. 
When done, lay them on a cloth to absorb the grease ; dish them on a 
napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted 
butter or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with them. 

2. Saddle of Mutton. — Time, a quarter of an hoiu: to a pound. Take 
off the skin ; cover the fat with a sheet of well-greased paper, and 
roast it Just before it is finished cooking, remove the paper, sprinkle 
the joint with salt, dredge it well over with flour, and drop wanned 
butter over it Serve it with good gravy, or empty the contents of the 
dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat; add a little 
wann water, and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. 

4. Plum-pudding. — ^To i^ lbs. of flour take 5 eggs well beaten, and 
as much milk as will make it a stiff batter ; add salt, Jamaica pepper 
or nutmeg, and sugar to taste ; i lb. of raisins, and \ lb. of currants. 
Boil four hours. 

5. Blancmange. — ^Time, fifteen minutes. One oz. of isinglass or 
gelatine, 2 oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, i oz. of bitter ones ; 
i^ pints of milk, i pint of cream, i lemon, a spoonful of rose-water, and 
a oz. of loaf sugar. 

Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass or gelatine, the 



236 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

i 

sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, the new milk and 
cream, the lemon-juice and the peel grated, with loaf sugar to taste. 
Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it till the isinglass is dissolved ; 
then take it off, and continue stirring it till nearly cold before putting 
it into the mould. This quantity will fill a quart mould ; but if you wish 
to make it in a smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream. Colour the top ornament with cochineal, 
and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. 



AUG.UST 14. 
' You have lived if you have loved,* — Alfred de Musset. 



1. Boiled Soles. 

2. Hashed Beef. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Lemon Rice Pudding. 



1. Boiled Soles, — ^Two soles, a large handful of salt in one gallon of 
water. 

Well wash and clean the soles, cut off the fins, and put them into a 
fish-kettle with salt and water. Let them boil slowly, and then simmer 
until done, which must be according to the weight of the fish, a large 
one requiring about ten minutes, a medium size eight When done, 
serve them on a napkin, with the white side uppermost Garnish with 
slices of lemon and parsley. Anchovy or shrimp sauce is usually sent 
to table with boiled soles, but may be varied at pleasure. 

2. Hashed Beef, — Time, twenty-five minutes. Some slices of cold 
roast beef, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- 
chup, and the gravy from the meat or from the bones boiled down \ 
pepper and salt. 

Put the gravy saved from the meat (with a little water if not suffi- 
cient), or the bones of the cold joint boiled down to a gravy, into a 
stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- 
chup, some pepper, salt, and a little butter rolled in fiour to thicken it ; 
let it simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour ; take it firom the fire, 
and when cold remove the fat Cut the meat into slices, dredge them 
with flour, and lay them in the stewpan with the gravy ; let it simmer 
slowly for ten minutes until hot, taking care it does not boil, or the 
meat will be hard. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 

4. Lemon Rice Pudding, — One quarter lb. of ground rice boiled in i 
pint of new milk ; when nearly cold, add the rind of 2 lemons, cut very 
small, witli 4 eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste ; then bake in an 
oven. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 237 



AUGUST 18. 

' Is a far thee the lark ascends and sings f 
Joy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. 
Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat. 
Loves of his own, and rapture swells the note? 
Know, Natures childrett all divide her care: 
TTiefur that warms a monarch, warmed a hear. 
While man exclaims, ** See, all things for my use!* 
" See man for mine I " replies a pampered goose. 
And just as short of reason he must fall. 
Who thinks all made for one, not one for alU — PoPE. 



1. Pot-AU-Feu. 

2. Stewed Steak. 



3. Mashed Potatoes. 

4. Marmalade Pudding. 



1. Pot-au-Feu. — ^Time, three hours. Three quarts of water, 4 lbs. 
of meat, 2 tea-spoontuls of salt, 3 small carrots, 3 middling-sized onions 
(one being stuck with 2 cloves), a head of celery, a bunch of thyme, a 
bay leaf and a little parsley tied together, 2 turnips, a burnt onion, or 
a little browning. 

Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water ; set it over a slow fire, and 
let it gently boil, carefully taking off the scum that will rise to the top. 
Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scum to rise. When no 
more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should 
have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the 
onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in 4 pieces. Put them into the 
pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away 
too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve the 
soup very much. 

It is not necessary to keep the pot very closely covered. It is better 
to raise the lid a little, it facilitates the operation. 

2. Stewed Steak. — Time, forty minutes altogether. Half a pint of 
water, i onion, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, a litde caper liquor, a 
piece of butter rolled in flour, and some pepper and salt 

Fry the steaks in butter a good brown ; then put in a stewpan half a 
pint of water, i onion sliced, a table-spoonfiil of walnut ketchup, a little 
caper liquor, pepper and salt Cover the pan close, and let them stew 
slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
serve them on a hot dish. 

4. Afarmaiatie Pudding. — ^Take 3 oz. of fresh butter, clarify it, inix it 
with 3 oz. of poimded sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 4 
eggs, X table-spoonful of flour. Beat the mixture all together for ten 
minutes with a wooden spoon. Line a mould with sweet tart paste ; 
pour the ingredients into the mould. Bake it in a moderate oven for 
an hour. 



a38 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



AUGUST 16. 

' " What a pleasure it is to pay on^s debts! " / remember hearing Sir Thomas 
LytUetan make this observation. It seems to flow from a combination of circumstances^ 
each of which is productive of pleasure. In the first place^ it removes that uneasiness 
which a true spirit feels from dependence and obligation. It affords pleasure to the 
crecUtor, and therefore gratifies our social affection. It promotes that future confidence 
which is so very interesting to an honest mind; it opens a prospect of being readiiy sup- 
fiied with what we want on future occasions ; it leaves a consciousness of our own 
virtue; audit is a measure we know to be tight, both in point of justice and rf sound 
economy. Finally, it is a main support of simple reputation, * — Shbnstonb. 

1. Scotch Broth. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Rump-steak. 4. Plain Boiled Custard. 

1. Softch Broth. — ^Time, two hours. Six lbs. of flank of beef, 6 
quarts of water, \ lb. of barley, 3 heads of celery, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a small onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, and a little chopped parsley. 

Take 6 lbs. of the thick flank of beef, and cover it with 6 quarts of 
water, and \ lb. of barley; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it 
frequently. Then add 3 heads of celery, 2 carrots, 2 turnips cut into 
pieces, i onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley; boil all 
together till you find the broth very good. Season it with salt Then 
take out the beef, the onion, and sweet herbs ; pour the broth into the 
tureen, and put the beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips. 

2. RuMp^aik, — ^Time, twenty minutes. Broiling is the best mode 
of cooking steaks and chops ; if, however, you prefer a steak fried, do 
not cut it quite as thick as for broiling, and leave a little frit on it 

Put some clarified dripping in the pan and let it boil; then lay the 
steak in the boiling fiit and fry it, moving the x>an about to prevent it 
from burning. When one side is well done, turn it on the other with 
your meat tongs ; if you do not possess a pair, turn it with a fork, but 
take care not to stick the fork into the juicy part of the steak ; put it in 
the fat or in the edge of the meat When the steak is done, lay it on a 
hot dish, with a little made gravy, or a lump oi butter and a table- 
spoonful of ketchup. Season with pepper and salt Tomato saace is 
sometimes eaten with beefsteak. 

4. Plain Boiled Custard. — ^Time, about twenty mmutes to infuse the 
peel ; ten or fifteen minutes to stir the custard. One quart of milk, 10 
eggs, peel of one lemon, 3 laurel leaves, ^ lb. of sugar. 

Four a quart of milk into a delicately-clean saucepan, with 3 laurel 
leaves and the peel of a lemon ; set it by the side of the fire for about 
twenty minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it into a basin 
to cool. Then stir in ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and the 10 eggs well beaten ; 
again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep saucepan of boiling water. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 239 

and stir it one way until it thickens ; then pour it into a glass dish, or 

into custard cups. You may put a knob of coloured jelly on the top of 

each custard cup if you please. 

— ^— 

AUGUST 17. 

' Oh^ what a world of beauty 

A loving heart mi^htplan^ 
If we but did our duty. 

And helped our brother man ! 
Then angel quests would brighten 

The threshold with their wings^ 
And love divine enlighten 

The old forgotten things J* — SwAlN. 



X. Filleted Soles. 
2. Mince OF Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rice Pudding. 



I. FiUded Soics. — ^Time, ten minutes. Two soles, i egg, and bread* 
crumbs. 

Take 2 soles, divide them from the backbone, and remove the head, 
fins, and taiL Sprinkle the inside with salt ; roll them up from the tail 
ends upwards, and fasten them with very small skewers. If small or 
middling-sized soles, put half a fish in each roll Dip them into the 
yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs ; then into the 
egg a second time, and again sprinkle them with crumbs ; fry them in 
hot lardy or in clarified butter. 

Instead of rolling the fish they may be cut into pieces, and arranged 
in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and garnished with 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

3. Minu of Mutton. — Cut ofif 2 lbs. from a leg of mutton, and chop 
it up finely, freeing it first from fat, but adding a slice or two of bacon 
likewise minced ; season it well with pepper and salt, and put it into a 
saucepan, with a tea-cupfiil of gravy and 6 oz. of butter. Cut up very 
small 3 young lettuces ; add a quart of young peas, an onion chopped 
small Stir all these ingredients over a gende fire until quite hot, then 
place the saucepan, closely covered, at the side of the fire, and let it 
stew gently for at least three hours. Arrange it neatly in the centre of 
a hot dish, and place round it a wall of well-cooked rice. 

4. Rice Pudding, — Put a small tea-cupfiil of rice in a saucepan of 
boiling water; let it boil for ten minutes, then pour the water off, and 
let the saucepan stand by the fire, uncovered, for a little time. Put a 
piece of butter about the size of a walnut in the rice, stirring with a fork 
till thoroughly mixed ; then add a breakfast-cupful of new milk, and let 
it simmer at the fire for half an hour, till the rice is soft and swelled. 
S<&t 4 eggs, yolks and whites, with a table-spoonfuls of sugar ; pour the 



240 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

rice into a basin, and grate half a nutmeg over it Mix well before 
putting in the eggs. Have your pudding-dish well buttered ; and, after 
the rice and eggs are beaten up, pour in, and bake in a quick oven. 



AUGUST 18. 

* Woe unto those that countenance a sin^ 
Siding with vice that it may credit win ; 
By their unhcllowed vote, that do benight 
The truth for error, putting darkjor light. 
And light for dark ; that call an evil good. 
And would by vice have virtue understood! * — BiSROP King. 

X. KiDNBV Soup. I 3. Elizabeth Fry Pudding. 

2. Neck OF Venison, I 4. Vegetables. 

1. Kidfuy Soup. — One bullock's kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 
turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. 

Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney ; put 
it over the fire, and when half done take out the kidney and cut it into 
pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, and the 
same of carrots, all cut small, and a bimch of sweet herbs tied together. 
Season to your taste with pepper and salt Let it boil slowly for five 
or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done take out the herbs, and 
serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) 
made the day before it is wanted. 

2. Neck of Vmison.^^Time, a quarter of an hour for a lb. Cover it 
>vith paste and paper as for the haunch ; fix it on a spit, and roast 

3. Eiizabeth Fry Pudding, — ^Take i quart of milk, from this reserve 
enough to wet four heaped table-spoons of flour ; mix the flour vexy 
smoothly with this milk, boil the remainder of the milk, and add 4 well- 
beaten eggs, a little salt, and the flour. Boil a few minutes, stirring 
with energy. Wet your pudding-dish, and put the pudding in ; sift over 
it half a cup of white sugar. Put half a cup of wine and half a cup of 
sugar together, and pour over the pudding before serving. 



AUGUST 10. 

' Quench, oh quench not that flame of love! it is the breath of your being.'* — ^LONGFSLLOW. 

1. Mixed Soup. | 3. Vegetables. 

2. Neck op Veal Braized. | 4. Lemon Custard. 

I. Mixed Soup. — One pound and a half of lean beef, 6 quarts of 
water, 3 onions, 6 turnips, thyme, parsley, pepper and salt, \ lb. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 241 

of rice, X lb. of potatoes, i handful of oatmeal. Cut the beef into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the water, onions, 
and the turnips ; add a bunch of thyme and parsley, a seasoning ot 
pepper and salt, \ lb. of Patna rice, a lb. of potatoes peeled and cut in 
quarters, and a handful of oatmeal. Let £dl stew for four hours, and 
serve. 

2. Neck of Veal Braized, — Trim the best end of a neck of veal by 
cutting off the chine bone and the rib bones short ; set it on the fire in 
cold water to blanch ; when it boils, take it off and put it into cold 
water for a few minutes while preparing a bndzing-pan, thus : Lay the 
bottom over with sheets of bacon ; put the veal in, and cover that also 
with bacon ; put in a few onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a few blades of 
mace, and a carrot sliced. Braize it about two hours in a light braize ; 
when done, take it up, drain it dry, and pour sauu d la Reine over. 
It may be glazed with light glaze instead; and serve with zny purU of 
vegetables under, as tomatoes, lentils, etc., or with stewed peas, sorrel, 
or endive. 

4. Lemon Custard, — ^Take \ lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, 
the peel of i pared very thin, boiled tender, and rubbed through a sieve, 
and a pint of white wine. Let all boil for a quarter of an hour ; then 
take out the peel and a little of the liquoi, and set them to cool. Pour 
the rest into the dish you intend for it Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the whites, and mix them with the cool liquor. Strain them into your 
dish, stir them well up together, and set them on a slow fire in boiling 
water. When done, grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown 
it over with a salamander. This custard may be eaten hot or cold. 



AUGUST 20. 

' If solid happiness weprise^ 
Within our breast this jewel lies; 
And they are fools who roam. 
The world has nothing to bestow : 
From our own selves our joys must flow. 
And that dear cot— our hofne.^—CoTTOU. 



1. Soup et Bouilu. 

2. Fillet OF Veal Daubed. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rice Flummery. 



I. Soup et BouillL — ^Take about 2^ lbs. brisket of beef, roll it up 
tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with 2 
lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water ; let it 
boil slowly; skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, 2 carrots, 
2 turnips, a leek, a head ot celery cut into slices, with some whole 
pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stey^ the whole very slowly for 

Q 



242 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite 
clear from the meat. Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, 
some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into 
pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the 
crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and 
cayenne ; remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate dish. 

2. Fillet of Veal Daubed, — Daub a fillet of veal with bacon rolled in 
fine herbs and spices. Tie it in a good form, cover it with bacon, and 
either roast or braize (it eats best roasted). If roasted, cover it well 
with buttered paper ; it will take two hours and a half either to roast 
or braize. If braized, put a pint of sheny in the braize. Serve with 
Italian or mushroom sauce. 

4. Rice Flummery. — Boil 4J oz. of ground rice in 6 table-spoonfuls 
of milk, stirring it all the time. When tolerably thick, add 3 oz. of 
powdered loaf sugar, and 12 drops of almond flavouring. Then pour 
it into an oiled mould, set it in a cold place, and the next day turn it 
out, and serve with baked pears round it, or with cream and preserve. 

AUGUST 21. 

*Siveet is the smile o/home, the mutual lookf 

When hearts are of each other sure: 
Sweet all the joys that crowd the household nook. 

The haunt of all affections pure. 
Yet in the world even these abide^ and we 

Above the world our calling boast. 
Once gain the mountain-top, and thou art free. 
Till then, who rest, presume; who turn to look are lost.^ — 

Keble. 



1. Macaroni Soup. 

2. Veal Cutlets. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Arrowroot, Blancmange, 
'and tartlet's. 



1. Macaroni Soup, — Put into a stewpan of boiling water 4 oz. of 
macaroni, i oz. of butter, and an onion stuck with 5 cloves. When the 
macaroni has become quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it 
2 quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking 
care that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then 
be ready to serve. It should be sent to table with grated Parmesan 
cheese. Macaroni is a great improvement to white soup, or to clear 
gravy soup, but it must be previously boiled for twenty minutes in 
water. 

2. Veal Guilds. — Cut some thin slices off the leg; flat them well, and 
trim them of a good shape ; brush them over with tggj and cover them 
with bread-crumbs; butter a frying-pan and lay them in, with some 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 243 

thin slices of ham neatly trimmed. Fry the cutlets a nice brown ; dish 
them en miroton (in a circle, the half of one overlapping the other), 
alternately a slice of ham and a cutlet ; or, instead of the ham, small 
pieces of bacon may be fried and put round. Serve them with mush- 
room sauce in the middle. 

4. Arrowroot^ Blancmange^ and Tartlets, — Mix the 2 oz. of arrowroot 
with a large cuphil of the milk into a smooth thick batter ; boil the 
remainder of the milk with three laurel leaves until sufficiently flavoured ; 
then strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring 
it constantly; add sugar to taste, and stir it over a clear fire imtil very 
thick ; add a table-spoonful of brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an 
oiled mould. Set it in a cold place, or in ice if you have it When 
firm, turn it carefully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. 



AUGUST 22. 
' Onis own honu is the bat home^ iho^ t%ever so small, ' — ^Bishop PerCY. 



1. Salmon Sauce. 

2. Roast Rabbit. 

3. Sauce. 



4. Cauliflower. 

5. Lemon Pudding. 



1. Salmon Sauce, — Stew very gently 2 or 3 slices of salmon (laid in 
a small kettle with a strainer) in a quart of veal gravy and a gill of 
Harvey's sauce for twenty minutes; or lift out the strainer with the 
fish, pour off th^ gravy into a stewpan, return the strainer with the fish 
to keep warm ; thicken the gravy with arrowroot, season with pepper 
and salt ; add a gill of capers, \ pint of sherry, and 12 pickled gherkins 
cut in slices \ and pour the whole back again over the salmon. Simmer 
five minutes, and serve immediately, very hot 

2. Roast Rabbit, — Rabbit for roasting should be trussed like hare ; then 
skin \ lb. of Cambridge sausages and line the inside of the rabbit with 
them ; fill up the vacuum with veal stufling, to which the rabbit's liver 
has been added ; sew the stuffing in, smear the rabbit over with butter 
and paper it, Aen roast before a very brisk fire for nearly three-quarters 
of an hour ; remove the paper, dredge with flour, fi-oth up, and serve with 
brown gravy and red currant jelly. Note, — ^A small rabbit will only take 
half an hour. Slices of fat bacon tied over can be used instead of 
butter and paper. It should be removed in time to froth the rabbit. 

3. Sattce, — Scald and chop 2 fowls' livers, and a proportion of par- 
sley; cut half a lemon into slices, and chop 2 hard-boiled eggs; add a 
little salt, and boil up the whole in half a pint of melted butter. This 
sauce serves well to mask the bad colour of boiled fowls, and is equally 
good for roast or boiled rabbit 



244 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Cauliflower, — Dress the cauliflower in the usual way, only boiling 
it in equal parts of milk and water, to which a little butter should.. be 
added ; when the flower is done, break it into sprigs. For one cauli- 
flo\^:er, prepare 3 oz. of rich, mild cheese by grating finely ; put half of 
it, with a \ lb. of fresh butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, a little salt 
and cayenne, into a stewpan and shake it over the fire till it comes to 
a boil, then add the cauliflower ; let the whole stew together for five 
minutes ; put it in a pie-dish ; strew over the top the remainder of the 
grated cheese, and brown it with a salamander or red-hot shovel held 
over the top. 

5. Lemon Pudding, — Put \ lb. of loaf sugar and 6 oz. of fresh butter 
into a saucepan ; set it over a slow fire till both are melted, stirring it 
well, as it is liable to bum, but do not let it boil ; pour into a basin and 
grate the rind of a lemon, and leave it to cool ; have ready 2 sponge 
biscuits soaked in ^ of a pint of cream, bruise them fine and stir them 
into the sugar and butter ; beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 e^;s 
with a little salt ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and mix it well in ; lay 
a puff paste in a dish, strew it with pieces of candied lemon-peel, put in 
the pudding, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 
Sift fine sugar over. 

AUGUST 23. 
' Our cotwcrsaiion should rather be laid out on things than persons.^ — Dr. Watts. 



1. Hotch-potch. 

2. Wild Ducks. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Brunswick Pudding. 



1. Hotch-PotcK — Put a pint of peas into a stewpan with a quart of 
water, and boil them until they will pulp through a sieve. Then take 
the lean end of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, put it into a stewpan 
with a gallon of water, the carrots and turnips cut into small pieces, and 
a seasoning of pepper and salt. Boil it until all the vegetables are quite 
tender ; put in the pulped peas, and a head of celery, and an onion 
sliced \ let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 

2. WUd Ducks, — When the ducks are trussed, spit them, and put 
them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit in rapid motion. 
Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and 
send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good gravy in the 
dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a few incisions made 
across it with a knife, and a piece of fresh butter put on it ; then.cut a 
lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the other a .very small 
quantity of cayenne pepper ; put the lemon together and squeeze the 
juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and your 
ducks will be ready to carve. 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 245 

. 4. Brunswick Pudding, — Cover a dish with puff paste ; spread it with 
marmalade or raspberry jam the third of an inch thick ; put 8 yolks and 
4 whites of eggs in a pan with a \ lb. of butter, and 6 oz. of lump sugar 
bruised ; stir the whole on a slow fire ten minutes ; when cold, put it in 
the dish, and bake. A custard poured over the fruit and baked makes 
an excellent pudding. 



AUGUST 24. 

' The hvop<fwers which constitute a wise womatty are those of bearing and forbearing * 

— Epictetus. 



1. Julienne Soup. 

2. Haunch or Venison. 



3. Vegetables, French Beans. 

4. winkin de wordes pudding. 



1. Julienne Soup, — Put 2 oz. butter into a saucepan ; when it begins 
to melt, add an onion chopped very fine, and a spopnful of flour ; stir 
together till it is quite red; then put in parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, 
onions, lettuce, bruised peas and haricots, sorrel, chervil, turnips 
chopped up together. Place the saucepan on the stove, and simmer, for 
an hour, stirring often to prevent burning ; and when of a light brown, 
put in 3 quarts of veal broth ; let it boil and skim ; afterwards add some 
thjrme, bay leaves, garlic, and parsley tied up together, and let them 
remain. An hour before serving, add peas reduced to a pulp, a pinch 
of pepper, a little salt, and half a spoonRil of brown sugar. Use plenty 
of leeks, but only the white part, and do not put in the stalks of the 
carrots. 

2. Haunch of Venison, — ^This joint is trimmed by cutting off part of 
the knuckle and sawing off the chine bone ; then the flap is folded over, 
and it is covered with a paste made of flour and water. This paste 
should be about an inch thick. Tie it up in strong and very thick 
paper, and place it in a cradle spit very close to the fire till the paste is 
well hardened or crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over it 
occasionally to prevent the paper from catching fire. Then move it 
farther from the fire ; take care that your fire is a very good one, clear 
and strong. When the venison has roasted for about four hours, take it 
up, remove the paper and paste, and run a thin skewer in to see if it is 
done enough. If the skewer goes in easily, it is dressed ; if not, put it 
down again, as it depends greatly on the strength of the fire for so large 
a joint When it is dressed, glaze the top and salamander it Put a 
frill round the knuckle, and serve very hot with strong gravy. Red 
currant jelly in a glass dish or a tureen. 

4. Winkin de Wbrdes Pudding, — One lb. of marrow, i lb. of sugar, i 
lb. of bread-crumbs, 4 lemons, and 8 eggs. 
Mix the marrow with the sugar, bread-crumbs, peel of the lemons 



246 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



grated, and the juice strained. Beat the yolks and the whites of the 
eggs separately, and add them to the other ingredients, and boil it in 
a basin or mould for eight hours. A small one can be made with a 
quarter of the quantity, and boiled for two hours. 



AUGUST 28. 

• Neither a borrower nor a lender be ; 
For loan oft loseth both itself and friend^ 
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry,^ — Shakspeare. 

1. Gravy Soup. | 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hash Venison. | 4. Matrimonial Pudding. 

1. Gravy Soup. — Put the gravy beef, yj lbs., and the veal, 2^ lbs., 
into a well-tinned copper stock-pot, with 2 oz. of butter; set it over a 
hot plate, and cover it tightly over to keep in the steam until it is 
properly drawn down. You will know when it is sufficiently drawn by 
the smell, which resembles a delicately-roasted joint, the butter fiying 
the meat ; then add the water made very hot, the carrots cut small, the 
onions, turnips, celery, bunch of thyme and parsley, with 2 blades of 
mace, the salt, and lumps of sugar. Half cover the stock-pot with the 
lid, but by no means cover it wholly, as all the steam must be allowed 
to evaporate, or the stock will imbibe a coarse flavour and become 
thick ; let it simmer gently for seven hours, then strain it off carefully 
through a sieve into a pan, and heat it when required for use, adding a 
little salt and loaf sugar. 

2. Hash Venison. — Cut some cold roast venison into nice slices, and 
season them lightly with salt ; put the bones, trimmings, any cold gravy 
from the venison, and as much broth as you may require into a stew- 
pan, and let it simmer slowly for quite an hour, then strain it off; stir 
the butter and flour over the fire until sufficiently brown to colour 
the gravy, taking care it does not bum. Pour the gravy from the 
bones, add the port wine, and let it simmer until it boils. Then draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the slices of venison ; and 
when thoroughly kot^ serve it up, with red currant jelly in a glass dish. 
Garnish with forcemeat-balls about the size of a marble. 

4. Mairimanial Pudding, — Mix 6 eggs, \ lb. of ratafias, 2 small 
spongecakes, i^ pints of milk, and 12 drops of the essence of almonds ; 
the whole to be sweetened to taste. It is to be baked for half an hour 
in a moderately-heated oven, and when taken out of the oven, orna- 
mented with orange or lemon-peel cut in slices. One oz. of bitter 
almonds blanched, and finely pounded or ground, may be substituted 
for the essence of almonds, if preferred. 



BILL OF FARE FOR A UGUST. 247 



AUGUST 26. 
• Li/is choicest blessings centre ail in homeJ* — COWPER. 



1. Salmon (middle piece). 

2. Haricot of Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Lemon Pudding. 



1. Salmon {middle fiece), — Boil slowly in salt and water. . Salmon 
should be put into warm water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. 
Serve on a napkin. Sauce : lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter, and 
parsley. 

2. Haricot of Mutton. — Make a good gravy by boiling the rou^ bits 
and trimmings, seasoning it with pepper and salt and a little ketchup. 
Strain, and add carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, previously boiled 
tender ; slice them in ; then pepper and salt your mutton, broil it brown, 
put it into the gravy along with the vegetables, and stew all together for 
about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Garnish with small pickles. 

4. Lemon Pudding. — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add 4 oz. of white 
sugar, rubbing some of the lumps on the rind of a lemon to take out 
the essence ; boil the rind till it is soft, changing the water to free it 
from bitterness ; then beat it in a mortar with the juice of a lemon ; mix 
all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter melted. Put a paste into a shallow dish, 
mark the edges, put the mixture into it, and bake it. Slide it carefully 
out of the dish upon another, before sending it to table. 



AUGUST 27. 
« Dost thee love me f Keep me then still worthy to be loved. '— SiR Philip Sydney. 



1. Boiled Brill. 

2. Roast Fowl. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Patty-pan Puddings. 



1. Boiled Brill. — Clean the fish, cut oflf the fins, and rub over with 
a little lemon-juice to preserve its whiteness. Put it in water (cold) suffi- 
cient to cover it (having \ lb. of salt and a little vinegar to each gallon 
of water), and bring it gradually to boil. Simmer very gently till done, 
which will be in about ten minutes ; if a small fish, firom the time the 
water begins to simmer — ^if the brill is thick, it will take longer; but 
the cook must remember that all fish must be thoroughly dressed. 
Place a hot napkin on the dish, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, 
horseradish; and, when there is lobster sauce, a little of the coral 
sprinkled over the fish. 

2. Roast Fotvl. — ^When the fowls are trussed for roasting, singe them 
carefully and wipe them clean ; put a piece of buttered paper over the 



248 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

breasts, and roast them at a clear fire, keeping them frequently basted. 
Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge them with flour, 
and baste them with butter warmed in the basting-ladle until they are 
nicely browned and have a frothy appearance. Then place them on a 
hot dish, pour a little brown gravy over them, and serve the remainder 
in a tureen with another of bread sauce. 

4. Patty-pan Puddings, — Slice ^ lb. of white bread ; put in a bowl 
with 6 oz. of butter ; pour i pint of boiling milk upon it, and let it stand 
uncovered; when cool, work well with a spoon, then add 602. of 
sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, a little mace or nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, 
a little salt, and ^ lb. of currants well cleaned and dried. Bake in 
cups or patty-pans, well buttered, in a quick oven ; then turn them out 
on a dish, and serve them up with melted butter or sweet sauce. 



AUGUST 28. 

* Since tri/Ur make the sum of human things. 
And half our misery from these trifles springs. 
Oh / let the ungentle spirit learn from thence, 
A small unkindness is a great offence ; 
To give rich gifts, perhaps, we wish in vain. 
But all may shun the guilt of giving painJ* — H. MORE. 



1. Boiled Eels. 

2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 



3. Onion Sauce. 

4. Carrots. 



I. Boiled Eds. — The small eels are the best. Do them in sufficient 
water to cover them ; add a bunch of parsley ; when tender, they are 
done. Serve them up in a shallow tureen, with parsley and buttered 
sauce poured over them. 

3. Onion Sauce, — Choose Spanish onions for sauce when obtainable. 
Skin 4 large common or 2 Spanish onions ; cut them in quarters, and 
throw them into cold water ; drain and set them on the fire in cold 
water. When they boil, draw them on one side to stew till tender ; 
drain through a colander, and, when pressed . dry, mash them through 
the 'colander and return to the saucepan; dredge a "little flour over 
with one' hand, keeping the onion- well' stirted with the other to prevent 
lumps forming; stir in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When 
this is well incorporated, pour in a tea-spoonful of milk, and beat the 
sauce well. Add a little salt The sauce should be of the consistence 
of thick cream. 

4. Carrots. — ^Take 6 or 8 large carrots ; clean, scrape, and cut them 
in round slices. Put 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, with a table-spoonful 
of minced parsley, the same of onion, a little salt and nutmeg ; add the 



BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 249 

carrots ; shake them well over the fire, and when they have absorbed 
the butter, pour in half a pint of weak broth, and simmer till tender. 
Brown a table-spoonful of flour, and add to it the carrots ; fry bread, 
cut in dice. Dish the vegetable, and put the fried bread amongst it 
Roast pork or sausages fried is the favourite meat to be eaten with this 
dish of carrots. 

— a — 

AUGUST 29. 

* It is the sole prerogative of Heaven 
Not to be tainted with the smallest error ; 
' But that immunity was never given 
iTo earth. Wise Solomon, de thou the mirror 
^ Where all may see their frailties, ien with terror I 
Thou, moving in perfection's highest^ sphere. 
Fell from thy orb I Who hath not cause for fear f '—Francis Hubert. 

1. Abbotsford Soup. I 3. Cauliflowers. 

2. Roast Loin of Pork. * 4. Orange Pudding. 

1. Abbotsford Soup. — Cut a pound of gravy beef into very small 
pieces ; put them into a half-gallon jar ; fill it up with every description 
of vegetables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put 
it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, 
which is far better, for at least six hours. 

2. Roast Loin of Pork. — ^Take a loin of pork of about 5 lbs., and 
score it with a very sharp knife at equal distances ; place it at a good 
distance firom the fire to prevent the skin from becoming hard, and 
baste it very frequently all the time. When done, make a little gravy 
in the dripping-pan, pour it round the meat, and serve with apple sauce 
in a tureen. A loin of pork may be stuflfed with sage and onion, or 
the stuffing baked and served separately. 

3. Cauliflowers. — Cut up J lb. of ham or lean bacon, i onion, i 
turnip, and a little celery ; put them in a stewpan with 4 oz. of butter ; 
stir over a sharp fire for twenty minutes until a whitish glaze is formed ; 
have 4 middling-sized cauliflowers thoroughly boiled and finely chopped, 
and add them to the contents of the stewpan, with a pint of water ; 
stew till all is quite tender, then mix smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of 
flour in a little water, and stir in. Put 2 quarts of white stock and ^ 
pint of milk, and keep it stirring until it boils. Season with salt and 
sugar ; rub the whole through a fine hair sieve, and boil up again for 
five minutes, and serve with fried bread. 

4. Orange Pudding. — Make a light paste, and roll out to the extent 
you require. Take the oranges, slice them with the rinds on, removing 
carefully the pips or seeds from the pulp. Place a layer ot fruit, well 



250 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

sugared, within one side of the paste, and turn it over the fruit, and 
repeat the same course until the whole of the slices are disposed o£ 
Fold the paste up at each end, so as to secure the syrup. Boil it in a 
pudding-cloth. 



AUGUST 30. 

Daughter^ the happiness of life depends 

On our discretion^ and a prudent choice: 

Look unto those they call unfortunate. 

And, closer viewed, you'll find they were unwisi. 

Some flaw in their own conduct lies beneath ; 

And 'tis the trick of fools, to save their credit. 

Which brought another language into use,* — ^YoUNGw 



1. Fried Eels. 

2. Hashed Heart. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. SaLFORD PLUM-PUDDINa 



1. Frud Eels. — Prepare and wash the eels, wipe them thoroughly 
dry, and dredge over them a very little flour. If l^ge, cut them into 
pieces of about four inches long ; brush them over with egg; dip them 
into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat If small, they should be 
curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and bread-crumbs. 
Serve them up garnished with fried parsley. 

2. Bashed Heart, — Cut the meat into slices, not too thick. Put 
what remains of the stuffing, jelly, etc, into sufficient beef-gravy to 
cover the meat ; warm this up quickly, and when it is quite hot, put in 
the slices ; but, if you suffer the sauce to boil, you will render the meat 
too hard for mastication. 

4. Salford Plum-pudding. — Rub \ lb. of butter into i lb. of flour j 
add I lb. of currants, i lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of raisins stoned and 
cut a little, the grated rind of a lemon, 6 well-beaten eggs, a little mace 
or nutmeg, 8 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon sliced, a 
little salt, and as little milk as will make it up quite stiff; boil in a floured 
cloth five hours. Serve with sweet sauce. This pudding will keep 
several months if boiled six hours, tied up in a cloth, and hung up 
folded in a sheet of cap paper to keep out the dust after it is cold 
When to be used, put it into a clean doth, and boil an hour and 
a half. 




BILL OF FARE FOR A UG UST. 25 1 



AUGUST 81. 

« Lo, the lUia oftheJUld, 
How their leaves instruction yidd I 
Hark to Natures lesson given 
By the blessed birds of Hecofen I 
Every bush and tufted tree 
Warbles sweet philosophy. 
Mortal^ flee from doubt and sorrow^ 
God provideth for the morrow,^ — Heber. 

1. Carp. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hashed Beef. | 4. Sterry Pudding. 

1. Carp. — Clean and dry the fish, flour them well, put them in the 
pan, and fiy them of a light brown ; lay them on a cloth to drain, and 
fry some three-cornered pieces of bread and the roes. Serve the carp 
with the roes on each side of the dish ; garnish it with the fiied bread 
and lemon in slices, and make anchovy sauce, with the juice of a lemon 
added, to eat with it. 

2. Hashed Beef, — Put the gravy of the meat into a stewpan, with a 
pint of water, a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, half an onion chopped 
Tcry fine, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne ; 
boil for about ten minutes ; dip out a cupful of the liquid, and rub a 
table-spoonfiil of flour in it ; then stir it well into the stewpan, and let 
all boil for ten minutes. Pass it through a sieve, return it to the pan, 
put in the slices of beef, and, just before taking up, throw in half a 
wineglass of Tarragon vinegar. 

4. Sterry Pudding. — ^To i lb. of bread-crumbs pour i pint of boiling 
milk ; cover with a plate for an hour, then stir in 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs 
well beaten, i lb. of raisins stoned, i lb. of currants, lemon-peel, mace 
or nutmeg, and sugar to taste ; boil it three hours. If you wish to add 
a little flour, boil an hour longer. A large spoonful of potato flour is a 
great improvement 




252 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF AUGUST. 

Baskets of fresh fruits or flowers tastefully arranged to decorate the 

middle of the table. 



1. Stone Fruits a l'Espacnole. 

2. Greengage Marmalade. 

3. Compote d'Oranges A l'Itali- 

ENNE. 

4. Royal Rice Cake. 

5. Macarons de Hollands. 



6. Compote de Pruneaux. 

7. Compote de Citrons. 
& Saffron Cake. 

9. Biscuits a la Crems. 
10. Glaces de Creme aux 
Amandes. 



I. STONE FRUITS A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Take either plums^ apricots, small peaches or damsons ; prick them 
very well with a needle, and completely cover them with the best 
brandy. Let them steep in this for ten days, then drain them, and 
pour upon them refined sugar boiled to almost a candy height, and tie 
it well down. 

2. GREENGAGE MARMALADE. 

Put your stoned fruit into a jar, and bake it until it will pulp easily. 
Pass it through a sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 1 2 oz. of fine 
loaf sugar ; boil it down until it is of the required thickness. Put it 
into small pots to keep. 

3. COMPOTE D'ORANGES A L'iTALIENNE. 

Carefully take away the rind and white skin from three good-sized 
sweet oranges, then divide them by pulling them asunder so as to leave 
them in their natural segments; remove the pips, lay the fruit in a 
glass dish, and pour over them the juice of three similar oranges, or 
an equivalent of white wine boiled with \ lb. of loal sugar, and strained 
together for twenty minutes ; put it into small moulds or paper cases, 
glaze the tops, and bake for a quarter ot an hour. 



4. ROYAL RICE CARE. 

Whisk the yolks of 15 eggs for half an hour, then beat in 10 oz. of 
loaf sugar finely powdered and sifted ; add a table-spoonful of brandy, 
the grated rind of 2 lemons, and \ lb. of rice flour. Mix these things 
well together, and stir in the whites of 7 eggs that have been beaten for 



DESSERT FOR A UGUST. 253 

an hour. \^ Put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for rather more 
than an hour in a tolerably quick oven. 

5. MACARONS DE HOLLANDE. 

Blanch and beat to a paste a pound of Jordan almonds, mixing with 
them the white of an egg and a wine-glassful of the best Hollands ; 
add I lb. of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, and the whisked whites of 
4 eggs. Stir all well together ; make the paste into balls as large as a 
walnut, place them on wafer paper, and bake for ten minutes. 

6. COMPOTE DE PRUNEAXJX. 

Take sufficient dried French prunes for the purpose, put them into 
an earthen pipkin, with enough cold water to cover them ; set them 
over a moderate fire, and let them do slowly until they feel soft to the 
touch ; then add the same weight of loaf sugar as you had of fruit, a 
glass of port wine, and a little cinnamon. Simmer this slowly for some 
time longer ; strain the prunes from the syrup, reduce the latter, being 
very particular to skim it thoroughly. When cool enough, pour it over 
your fruit, which should be arranged in a compotier, or deep glass dish. 
It is almost needless to observe that compotes are only served cold. 

7. COMPOTE DE CITRONS. 

Perfectly remove the rind and pellicle from 2 or 3 fresh lemons, cut 
them into rather thin slices and take out the pips. Put the fruit into a 
strong syrup made with 1 2 oz. of loaf sugar, a tea-cupful of water, and 
a tearcupful of either white currant or apple jelly. Simmer it gently 
for some minutes ; take up the lemon, arrange it in a dessert-dish, and, 
when sufficiently cooled, pour over it the syrup. 

8. SAFFRON CAKE. 

Make a strong infusion of saflfron in \ pint of new milk, which is 
done by placing the saffron and milk in a cool oven for some time. 
Strain it, and with one-half put a tea-cupful of yeast, in the other half 
melt 6 oz. of fresh butter; mix the latter with 2 lbs. of dried flour, add 
the yeast, 4 eggs well beaten, 4 oz. of powdeted loaf sugar, 4 oz. of 
candied orange-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Let 
it stand for a little while to rise ; work it well together, put it into a 
buttered hoop, and bake it for not quite an hour. When done and 



254 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

become cold, it may be thickly iced. In many parts of Ei^land this 
is called an Easter cake, from being eaten at that period. 

9. BISCUITS A LA CREME. 

Take the whites of 8 eggs ; beat them to a snow ; mix with them to 
oz. of powdered and sifted loat sugar, a spoonful of oiange-flower water, 
and a quait of very thick cream whipped as thick as possible. Stir 
this gently with one hand, and with the other dredge in 6 oz. of dried 
flour. Either bake it as small biscuits or in the form of a cake. In 
the latter case, first thickly butter your mould, and then sift sugar into 
it ; shake out the loose sugar, put in the cake, glaze the top, and bake 
for an hour and a half. 

10. CLACES DE CREME AUX AMANDES. 

Blanch and beat to a paste \ lb. of sweet almonds, and z lbs. of bitter 
almonds ; add a little orange-flower water, otherwise they may turn oily. 
Put them into a skillet with 5 oz. of powdered loaf sugar and the yolks 
of 8 large eggs ; mix well together, and, by degrees, pour in a quart of 
thick cream. Stir it gently over a stow fire until it is almost ready to 
boil, then strain it j let it grow cold, and ice iL 



SEPTEMBER 1. 

' / livi/cr these whe lave tin, — 

Whose hrarts are Und and trut; 
For the Heaven that smiles above me. 

And auiaiis my sfirii tea ; 
Far all human ties thai bind me ; 
For the task by Cod assigned me; 
Far the bright hopes left behind me. 
And the gvad that I tan da.' — BesNARQ Babton. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

MUT : Pork— Lamb— Beef— Veftl— Mutton. 

PouLTKY : Chickens— Geese— FowU— Larks— Dnclcs— Pallets— TnrkeTS—Teil— 



Fish : Cod— Bloaters— C«tp— Eels— Brill— Flounders— Mullet— Lobstere— Herrings 
—Prawns —Oysters— Skate— Plaice— Soles— Tnrbol— Whitebait— Whiling— 
Salmon. 

Vegetables : Asparagus — Beans — Carrots — Cabbage Sprouts — Artichokes — Celery 
— Orkions — Lettuces — Mushrooms — Peas — Sea Kale — Potatoes — Sprouts — 
Salading — V^etable Marrows — Turnips — Tomatoes — Various Herbs. 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 
Filberts — Damsons — BuUaces — Figs — Morello Cherries — Grapes — Mulberries — 
Melons — Pears — Walnuts — Plums— Nectarines — Peaches — Quinces. 

3. Vegetables. 

4. Lehon Cheesecakes. 

I. Fried Salmon. — Cut slices of salmon, sprinkle them with salt, and 
let them lie for a quarter of an hour ; flour them, brush them over with 
yolk of e^ well beaten up, and fry them in boiling salad oil 

3. Patrician BubbU and Squaik. — Cold roast veal, divested of the 
outside skin, cut into bits about an inch long, with the white parts only 
of cauliflowers, previously dressed, and also cut up small ; these wanned 
up in a frying-pan, in \ pint of cream, and seasoned with a slight 



256 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, will be found a very delight- 
ful dish. 

4. Lanon Cheesecakes. — ^To \ lb. of butter put a lb. of loaf sugar 
broken into small pieces, 6 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, the rind of 3 
lemons and the juice ; put them all into a pan, and let them simmer 
over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken like 
honey. AVhen cold, put it into sweetmeat pots for use; cover with 
brandy-paper. AVhen made into cheesecakes, add grated sweet biscuits. 



SEPTEMBER 2. 

' Seven hours to work, to soothing slumber seven. 
Ten to the world, and all to Heaven.*— SlK W. JONKS. 



1. Mock Turtle Soup. 

2. Brown Minced Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Carrot Pudding. 



I. Mock Turtle Soup. — Have a calf s head with the skin on ; let it 
be nicely cleansed from hair. Saw the head in two, take out the brains, 
chop off the nostril-bones, and put the head into a pan of lukewarm 
water with a little salt to draw out the blood ; let it soak for an hour 
or two, then pour off the water, fill up with fresh, and wash it clean. 
Put it into a pot that will hold it conveniently ; cover it well with clean 
water, and set it on to boil ; take off all the scum carefully, and boil 
gently until tender ; but it must not be too much done, as it has to be 
boiled again in the soup. Take all the meat from the bones, and cut 
it into pieces three-quarters of an inch square ; peel and trim the tongue, 
and cut it into pieces the same size. Place the whole on a dish, and 
put it in the larder until wanted. 

If the head is large, take 2 knuckles of veal and a leg of beef; if 
small, or only half a head is required, a knuckle of veal and a shin of 
beef will be enough, and a knuckle or two of ham. Rub the bottom of 
a large stewpan or a stock-pot well over with butter. Cut the ham into 
thin slices and place it in the stewpan ; on this put the veal, and then 
the beef cut small, with the trimmings of the head and tongue, and 
proceed as for brown cansommk^ using the liquor in which the head 
was boiled to moisten it with ; let the meat be well covered, adding 
water if there is not sufficient broth for this purpose. When the pot is 
scummed, add a bunch of turtle herbs, viz. : — marjoram and basil (these 
must predominate), a little thyme and winter savoury, with a handful of 
parsley, 2 or 3 carrots, a head or two of celery, and 3 or 4 onions cut 
in slices, a blade or two of mace, some allspice and pepper ; boil three 
or four hours, strain, and fill up with hot water for a second stock. 

Put into a stewpan about ^ lb. of butter, a knuckle or a slice of ham 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 257 

cut into dice, 5 or 6 onions cut small, and a bunch of turtle herbs 
for the stock, and some mushroom trimmings. Let the whole sweat 
over a slow fire, stirring it occasionally, to prevent burning, until the 
onions are done ; then stir in sufficient flour to make a nice raux^ and 
moisten it gradually with the stock, that the sauce may be smooth ; 
add sufficient to make the sauce rather thinner than melted butter ; let 
it simmer by the side of the stove to throw up the grease, which skim 
off carefully. Pass the sauce through a tammy into a clean soup-pot ; 
add the head, with some blanched forcemeat and egg-balls; sinmier 
gendy until the meat is well done; season it with salt and a little 
cayenne pepper ; add the juice of 2 lemons. Add a pint of warmed 
Madeira or sherry wine when served. 

Note — ^The flavour of the herbs will be best obtained by putting 
them into a separate stewpan, with a portion of the stock, to digest at 
the comer of the stove, instead of putting them in with the butter. 

2. Brown Minced VeaL — Cut the meat off the bones, and put them 
into a saucepan with a quart of water ; stew till you have about \ pint 
of liquor left. Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat 
and lean, small ; season with pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, 
and a little peel as before directed ; add a tea-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup ; warm it up in the same manner as the white mince, and 
garnish with sippets. 

4. Carrot Pudding, — Stone \ lb. of raisins, and mix them with the 
same quantity of dried currants and chopped suet. Scrape 4 oz. of 
carrot and the same of potato, and mix with a dessert-spoonful of sugar, 
a litde salt and nutmeg; boil in a basin four hours. Dish and serve 
hot, with brandy sauce. 



SEPTEMBER 8. 

' Let constant vigilance thy footsteps guide^ 
And wary circumspection guard thy side. 
Then shall thou walk unharmed,^ — Gav. 

1. Chicken Gravy Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Roast Fowls. | 4. Victoria Pudding. 

I. Chicken Gravy Soup, — ^While your chickens are roasting, baste 
them thoroughly. When ready to dish up, take out the chickens 
from the pan in which they have been cooking; pour into the pan 
i\ pints of boiling hot water, and stir well all the drippings with the 
water ; set it on the stove or range ; make a little flour thickening and 
pour it into the gravy ; boil it up once. Have ready the giblets and 
liver, which you must have previously cooked tender in water and 

R 



2S8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

chopped fine. Strain the gravy, and then put in the chopped giblets ; 
serve hot, and you will find it very nice. 

4. Victoria Pudding. — Infuse in a pmt of new milk \ lb. of vaniUa, 
cut into short lengths and bruised ; or, if any othier flavour be pre* 
ferred, use bitter almonds, lemon, noyeau, etc. Simmer them gently 
together for twenty minutes, and strain the milk through muslin to \ 
pint of cream ; put these again on the fire in a clean saucepan, with 
3 oz. of fine sugar, and pour them, when they boil, to the beaten yolks 
of 8 very fresh eggs. Stir the mixture often until it is nearly or quite 
cold, and boil it as gently as possible for an hour in a weU-buttered 
mould or basin that will just hold it Let it stand five minutes before 
it is turned out; dish it carefully; strew and garnish thickly with 
branches of preserved barberries, or serve with a rich syrup of fresh 
fiuit, or with clear firuit jelly melted. 

— — 

SEPTEMBER 4. 

*EtPn in the happiest choice^ when faz/ ring Heaven 
Has equal love and easy fortune given, 
Think not the husband gained, that all is done,— 
The prise of happiness must still be won : 
And oft the cardessfind it to their cost. 
The lever in the husband may be lost; 
The graces might alone his heart allure — 
They and the virtues meeting, must secure, ' — LORD LvTTLSTON. 



1. Mulligatawny. 

2. Salmi op Wild Duck. 



3. Irish Stew. 

4. Pain de Pommr. 



1. Mulligatawny, — Clean and cut up a fowl or rabbit into joints as for 
curry. Put them into a stewpan with \ lb. of butter and 2 onions cut 
in thin slices ; fry of a light brown over a brisk fire ; add a table-spoon- 
ful of curry powder, the same of flour, or, if the soup is required thick, 
a little more, and stir the whole together; pour in gradually fi:om 3 
pints to 2 quarts of veal consommi, and let the whole simmer by the 
side of the stove until the fowl or rabbit is done. Skim off the grease, 
take out the members and trim them neatly ; ^ass the sauce through a 
sieve or tammy ; return the best pieces to it ; season with a little salt, 
and make hot for serving. A dish of boiled rice should be always 
served with it 

2. Salmi of Wild Duck, — Half roast the wild ducks, and cut them 
up ; put a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of gravy, 6 shalots 
chopped fine, the juice of a Seville orange or a lemon, a little salt and 
cayenne pepper, into a silver chafing-dish, and set it over a spirit-lamp 
till it boils up; then put in the wild duck, put on the cover, make it 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 259 

thoroughly hot, and send it to table in tlie dish. If you have not a 
chafing-dishy stew it in a stewpan, and serve it on a hot dish, and pour 
over it a sauce made thus : One glass of port wine or claret, sauce i la 
Russe I table-spoonful, z of ketchup, i of lemon-juice, i slice of lemon- 
peel, I large slice of shalot, 4 grains of cayenne pepper. Scald, strain, 
and add the above to the gravy which comes from the bird in roasting. 
The bird should be cut up in the silver dish which has a lamp under it, 
while the sauce is simmered with it 

3. Irish Stew. — Cut the fat off half a dozen mutton-chops ; peel and 
divide into quarters 2 lbs. of potatoes ; peel and cut into slices 2 good- 
sized onions ; mix two-thirds of a tea-spoonful of salt with one-third of 
soluble cayenne, rub the chops over with this on both sides. Place 
part of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the chops on 
the vegetables, covering with the remainder ; pour in water till both 
are covered. You may use veal stock or mutton broth, if you have it 
made, instead of water. Set your stewpan on a slow fire for two 
hours, now and then lifting the cover and pouiing off the water attached 
to it 

4. Pain de Pomme, — Boil a dozen dumpling apples till they are soft, 
peel and core them, break them up, and force ^e pulp through a coarse 
sieve ; mix this with twice its weight of dough ; make the whole into 
small loaves, and bake in a slow oven. 

— a — 



SEPTEMBER 6. 

' Coxdy thy habit as thy purse can buy^ 
BtU not expressed tn fancy : rich^ not gaudy, ^ — Shakspeare. 



1. Cabbage Soup. 

2. BeefBouilli. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Bakewell Pudding. 



I. Cabbage Soup. — ^The night before you intend making your soup, 
cut a white or savoy cabbage (the latter preferable) into foiu: quarters, and 
remove the stalks. Soak all night in salt and water. In the morning, 
drain it welL Trim \ lb. of streaky bacon, and put it, with the cab- 
bage, for twenty or thirty minutes into boiling water. Remove them, 
press the cabbage dry, and put it into the digester with a little pepper 
and salt, a bunch of herbs, i onion (with 2 cloves), and i small carrot, 
above which place i lb. of fresh brisket of bee^ and the bacon. Over 
this pour 3 quarts of cold, filtered water. Skim welL Let it come to the 
hail slowly^ and then simmer slowly for three hours. Serve the meat 
and vegetables, only a part of the cabbage, in a flat dish. Remove the 
iat from the soap, and serve, with the remainder of the cabbage, in a 



26o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. * 

tureen, with sippets of French roll (the French mode), or with toasted 
bread as in other soups. 

2. BeefBouilli, — ^Take 6 or 8 lbs. of round of fresh beef. Put it into 
a soup pot with the remains of cold roast beef, bones and all, to enrich 
the gravy ; season with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient water to 
cover well ; boil slowly, and skim well When the scum ceases to rise, 
have ready half a dozen large carrots ; cut them in pieces, and put them 
in first, afterwards 6 turnips quartered, a head of celery cut small, half- 
dozen parsnips cut in pieces, and 6 whole onions. Let it boil till the 
vegetables are done. 

4, Bakewell Pudding. — Some puff paste, raspberry or any other pre- 
serve, yolks and whites of 8 eggs wanned ; sweeten it to your taste, and 
beat all well together. Lay a puff paste round a dish, pour in the mix- 
ture, and bake it a light brown. 



SEPTEMBER 6. 

' The heart of a young woman in love is a go/den sanctuary which often enshrines an 

idol o/clay.'^VAVUS Limayrac. 



1. Oyster Omelet. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. 



3. Vegetable Marrow. 

4^ Baked Arrowroot Pudding. 



1. Oyster Omelet. — Strain the liquor from 25 large oysters or 40 
small ones ; chop them fine, leaving out the hard part Break into a 
shallow pan, 6, 7, or 8 eggs, according to the quantity of oysters, leaving 
out half the whites. Having beaten the eggs well, mix in the chopped 
oysters, adding a little cayenne pepper and nutmeg, if you like that 
spice. Put 3 oz. of the best butter into a frying-pan, let it come to a 
boil, pour in the omelet mixture, stir it till it begins to harden ; fry it a 
light brown, lifting it from the edge several times, by slipping a knife 
under it Take care not to cook it too much, or it will be tough ; 
serve immediately. This quantity will make one large, or two smaller 
omelets. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef . — Put the part with the hard fat into a stew- 
pot with a small quantity of water; let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly; 
then add carrots, celery, onions, turnips, and a few peppercorns. Stew 
till very tender, then take out the flat bones, and remove all the lat 
from the soup. Serve that and the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone, 
and the meat on a dish garnished with some vegetables. The following 
sauce served with the meat is much admired : Mix with ^ pint of the 
soup a glass of port wine, a spoonful of ketchup, a tea-spoonful of made 
mustard, a little flour, salt, and a piece of butter; boil all for a few 
minutes, and then pour it round tiie meat Chop capers, walnuts. 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 261 

pickled cucumber, red cabbage, and chives or parsley, small, and put in 
separate heaps over it. 

3. Vegetable Marrow, — Choose a fine marrow, and boil it in salt and 
water from twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. The best pot to 
boil it in is a mackerel-kettle, because it can be lifted out on the 
strainer easily. Take up the marrow when cooked, keep it on the 
strainer over the hot water, and scrape off all the skin very carefully. 
Cut the marrow in half lengthwise, and then across ; remove all the 
seeds, and let it drain, keeping it hot during the process. Have a large 
slice of toasted bread buttered and cut into four pieces ; place on each 
a part of the marrow, and smother with white sauce. It forms a delicate 
and nice supper dish by itself. If preferred, thin toasted sippets may 
take the place of the buttered toast. 

4. Baked Arrowroot Pudding, — Mix into a rather thick smooth batter 
3 spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk. Put the remainder of 
the milk into a clean saucepan with the peel of half a lemon, and sugar 
to taste. When it boils, strain it gradually into the batter, stirring it all 
the time, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When nearly 
cold, stir in 3 well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a pie-dish, 
round which has been placed a border of puff paste. Grate a little nut- 
meg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

If boiled, it will take the same time, about one hour. 



SEPTEMBER 7. 

* Husband and wife should no more strug^ to get the last word^ than they would 
struggle for the possession of a lighted bomb-shell. Married people should study each 
ether's vfeak points^ as skaters look after the weak parts of the ice, in order to keep off them. 
By attention to this apparently small matter, the course of wedded life will run more 
smoothly, and thus ensure happiness.* — Dr. Parr. 



1. Cray-Fish Soup. 

2. Roast Partridges. 

3. Calf's Liver a la Mode. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Wafer Pancakes. 



I. Crayfish Soup, — ^Wash 50 or 60 river cray-fish ; put them into a 
stewpan with some beef or fish stock, not enough to cover them ; stir 
them over a brisk fire, without ceasing, for about a quarter of an hour, or 
undl they are of a fine red, and take them out Let them cool ; pick 
the meat from the shells and the gut from the belly, that runs to the end 
of the tail, which throw away; reserve the flesh from the tails, and 
pound the rest with the shells and the crumb of a French roll, or a slice 
of bread fried quite brown and crisp, in a mortar, to a fine paste, using 
the broth (being first strained) in which they were boiled to moisten it 



262 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

with. Rub all through a tammyy using between 2 and 3 quarts of broth 
to moisten the pulp. Let it boil about a quarter of an hour; add the 
tails cut in two \ colour the soup with some pounded lobster spawn as 
for sauce, or with a little red beetroot-juice. This is made by rasping 
or pounding the root, and squeezing the juice through a cloth. Season 
wiUi salt and a little cayenne, and serve with fried bread cut in dice. 
Ncie. — ^The soup must not boil after the spawn is added. 

2. Roast Partridges, — Pick, draw, singe, and clean them the same as 
fowls. Make a slit in the neck and draw out the craw ; twist the neck 
round the wing, and bring the head round to the side of the breast 
The legs and wings are trussed the same as fowls, only the feet are left 
on and crossed over one another. Put them down to a dear fire, and 
baste well with butter. When about half done, dust a little flour over 
them ; let them be nicely browned. They will require to roast from 
twenty minutes to half an hour each. Serve on toasted bread dipped 
in the gravy, with gravy and bread sauce. 

3. Calfs Liver d la Mode, — ^A calf's liver, 7 oz. of bacon, 2 J 02. of 
butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions, 6 cloves, i clove of garlic, 3 
carrots, 2 turnips, i wine-glass of brandy, i of wine, i table-spoonful of 
Harvey sauce. 

After well washing the calfs liver, soak it for a short time in cold 
water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon at equal distances 
in the interior part of the liver ; put it into a stewpan with about 2^ oz. 
of butter, a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of 
mace, and a small onion stuck with 6 cloves, and fjy it a nice brown ; 
then add 3 carrots, 2 turnips, an onion cut into wheels, and a wine- 
glass of brandy, with sufficient water to just cover the whole ; baste it 
frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer slowly for two hours. 
When done, take out the liver and put it on a dish garnished with the 
cut vegetables, strain and skim the gravy, add the sauce and glass of 
wine, boil it to the quantity required, pour it over the liver, and serve it 
up hot. Time, two hours and a quarter. 

5. Wafer Pancakes, — Beat 4 eggs well with 2 large spoonfuls of flour 
and 2 of cream, i oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and a little grated nutmeg 
or mace ; put a little butter in a bit of clean cloth, rub the pan well 
with it ; pour in the batter as thin as a wafer ; fry only on one side ; lay 
on a dish with grated sugar between each pancake. Serve hot, with 
sugar and a lemon. 




BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 263 



SEPTEMBER 8. 

*** Niffw,^ is the constant syllable ticking from the clock of time, "AW," is the 
watchword of the wise ; " now" is on the banner of the prudent. Let us keep this little 
word always in our mirui, and whenever anything presents itself in the shape of work, 
whether mental or physical^ we should do it with all our might, remembering that 
** now ** is the only time for us.* — Dr. Pa&r. 



1. Mulligatawny. 

2. Boiled Duck. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Rice and Apples. 



1. MuUigatawny, — Prepare 2 fowls or rabbits. Use only the prime parts 
for the soup, cut into moderate-sized pieces. On particular occasions 
the flesh should be taken from the bones before it is served in the soup. 

Take 6 or 8 middling-sized onions, peel and chop them rather small ; 
put them into a mortar, with \ lb. of butter, half a blade of ginger 
grated, half a nutmeg, and a small tea-cupful of India pickle. Pound 
the whole well, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of good curry powder and \ 
lb. of flour. The addition of a cocoa-nut grated or cut small and 
pounded with it will much improve the flavour. When reduced to a 
perfectly smooth paste, take it out into a clean stewpan, place it over 
the fire, and add gradually 2 quarts of good stock ; mix well, and let it 
be perfectly smooth. Place it on the comer of the stove, to boil gently 
and throw up the grease ; skim well, and add 2 quarts of veal or fowl 
amsommi; pass the sauce through a tammy, or sieve, into a clean stew- 
pan ; add Uie prepared members of fowl or rabbit, and let the whole 
simmer gently for about half an hour. Season with a little salt, and 
serve with rice. 

2. Boiled Duck. — ^A duck boiled, and smothered in onions, is a 
delicacy fit for the table of an empress. Twenty minutes is quite 
sufficient time, and be sure that the onions have been twice boiled 
before you make them into sauce. 

4. Riu and Apples, — Boil the rind of a quarter of a lemon in a quart 
of milk for a few minutes; take out the peel j boil 6 oz. of rice (sweetened 
to taste) till quite soft, then let it cooL Peel, quarter, and core 8 
apples in \ lb. of sugar and \ pint of water, and, when soft, put on a 
sieve to drain. Then in the centre of your dish put a middling-sized 
gallipot ; lay the rice all round to the top of the gallipot, smoothing it 
with a spoon, then stick your apples in rows, one row sloping to the 
right, the other to the left Put it in the oven to colour the apples ; 
remove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fruits, and in the 
middle pour boiled custard till level with the top of the rice. Serve 
quite hot 

Lemon rind flavours custards deliciously, or a few drops of vanilla. 
Let a pint of milk, about 3 oz. of lump sugar, and 3 laurel leaves. 



264 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

or rind of half a lemon, steep by the fire till well flavoured in aa 
enamelled saucepan. Let it come to boiling point, and strain it 
Well whisk 5 eggs (if duck eggs, use 4), and when the milk is a little 
cooled, stir them in, and strain all into a jug^ which place on a sauce- 
pan on the fire, and keep stirring tme way until it thickens* It must 
not boil, or it will curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, and 
add I table-spoonful of brandy, mixing it well with the ciistard. 



SEPTEMBER 9. 

* Rdigicn I providence I our after, state ! 
Here is firm footings Here is solid rock , 
nis can support us, all is sea besides^ 
Sinks under us, bestows, and then devours. 
His hand the good man fastens on the skies, 
And bids earth roll, nor feds her idle whirlJ* — ^YoUNG. 



1. Stbwed Sturgeon. 

2. Boiled Leg of Pork. 



3. Peas Pudding. 

4. Apple Pie. 



I. Stewed Sturgeon, — A good-sized slice of sturgeon, stewed for an 
hour over a slow fire, in a rich and well-seasoned beef gravy, is an 
excellent dish. 

3. Peas Pudding. — Pick and well wash the best split peas ; tie them 
loosely in a cloth, and let them boil for two or three hours ; untie the 
clothy and mash the peas with a wooden spoon till quite smooth ; put 
in a good lump of butter, and pepper and salt ; tie up the pudding again, 
and boil it for another half-hour. 

4. Apple Fie. — Pare, core, and cut into quarters 9 or 10 pippins or 

russet-coats ; pack them closely in a proper dish ; add the peel of half a 

lemon chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of quince 

marmalade, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and enough rose-water to moisten 

the whole ; put on a top crust of puff paste, and give it an hour and a 

quarter's baking. This pie is best warm, but by no means to be 

despised when cold 

— — 

SEPTEMBER lO. 

* Nature isfru^l, and her wants are few ; 
Those few wants answered, brings sincere delights^ 
But fools create themsdvcs new appetites.'— Yovno, 

1. Pork Broth. 4. Vegetables. 

2. Boiled Fowl. 5. Apple Pancakes. 

3. Boiled Pork. 

I. Fork Broth. — Cut the fat off some 4 or half a dozen delicate pork 
chopsy then separate the outward skin from the fat, and put it with the 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER, 265 

bones and meat into a stewpan ; add a little rice whole, a few sweet 
herbs, some pepper and salt ; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, 
skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. 

3. BciUd Fowl. — Beard and wash some oysters in their own liquor ; 
stuff a young fowl, trussed for boiling, with them ; sew securely the ends 
of the fowl, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water. Let it b<nl for nearly one hour and three-quarters. Take the 
gravy that has flowed from it, add to it some oysters scalded in their 
own liquor, the yolks of 2 eggs and \ pint of cream, and a blade of 
powdered mace. Stir this sauce all together till quite hot^ but do not 
let it boil ; put part in a sauce tureen, and part pour over the fowl 

5. Apple Pancakes. — ^Pare and cut some apples in thick slices, fry 
them in butter a light brown, keep them as whole as possible ; when 
tender, take them out, melt some butter in the pan, and put in some 
batter as for a pancake, then put in a layer of apples, then a little more 
batter ; fry a nice brown, and strew sugar on each pancake. 



SEPTEMBER 11. 

' She who holds fast the ^Idett mean. 
And lives contentedly between 

The little and thegreat^ 
Feels not the wants that pinch the poor ^ 
Nor plagues that haunt the rich mcuCs door^ 
Embittering all his state.*— Cov/tek. 



1. Baked Conger. 

2. Boiled Ducks. 

3. Onion Sauce. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Evs's Pudding. 



I. Baked Conger. — Take such a piece of fine conger as would be 
chosen for boiling ; make a stuffing, and stuff it as mentioned for boiled 
conger. Put it into a pie-dish or a baking-dish, with a pint of water ; 
lay pieces of butter over the fish, flour it well, and put it into a moderate 
oven. Baste it often with the liquor while it is cooking, and when it is 
almost done, thicken the liquor with flour, just enough to correct any 
little richness that may float on the top of it, not more. Baked conger 
may be varied in many ways. It is very nice with potatoes baked under 
it ; but as there must be liquor in the dish with which to baste the fish, 
to prevent the skin getting dry and hard, they will not brown on the 
outside. The gravy may be thickened with tomatoes, or with tomato 
sauce, and this is particularly nice. It may be taken firom the liquor 
and eaten with dressed cucumber and early potatoes. It may be 
flavoured with, or eaten with, any sauce that is nice, and it will be excel- 



266 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

s 

lent any way. A good flavouring, for a change, is a table-spoonfiil of 
lemon-pickle, the same of walnut ketchup, and a dessert-spoonfiil of 
soy. 

2. Boiled Ducks, — Choose a fine fat duck, salt* it for two days, then 
boil it slowly in a cloth ; serve it with onion sauce, using milk instead 
of water in its preparation. 

3. Onion Sauce, — The proportions for making this soup are as fol- 
lows : — ^To a quart of beef gravy add i large onion, that has been 
previously boiled in three waters, and then finely chopped ; season with 
soluble cayenne and salt ; put in the vegetables ; let all simmer for an 
hour; strain before serving. 

5. Ev^s Fudding^-^V^xt and chop 6 apples ; take 6 oz. of finely^ 
grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 
6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and quarter of a nutmeg finely 
powdered, 6 eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of lemon-peel cut very fine^ 
and a tumbler of white wine. Mix well together ; boil six hours. 



SEPTEMBER 12. » 

* The tallest pine feels most thepcwer 
Of wintry blasts : the loftiest tower 

Comes heaviest to the ground. 
The bolts that spare the mountain's suie 
His cloud'clapt eminence divide. 

And spread the ruin round/ — Cowper. 

1. Carrot Soup. | 3. Vegetables. 

2. Curried Chicken. I 4. Alice Pudding. 

1. Carrot Soup, — ^The liquor in which you have boiled mutton or 
veal, or a gravy drawn firom beef bones, will make sufficient foundation 
for this excellent soup. Put a couple of quarts of either of these into a 
stewpan, then scrape 6 large carrots, and cut off the red portion ; put 
that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, into the stewpan, 
cover down close, and set it near the fire, or on a very slow one, for two 
hours and a half; if you do not find the carrots quite soft by this time, 
give them another half-hour's simmering ; force the vegetables through 
a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find that the pulp 
mixed with the liquor is too thick for soup, add more broth ; season 
with salt and pepper to your taste. It must be warmed up again before 
sending to table. Serve with toasted bread. 

2. Curried Chicken, — Skin a chicken and cut it up, dividing the legs 
and wings into small joints. Mix with \ oz. of curry powder i table- 
spoonful of flour, and roll the chicken in it Slice 2 onions, and fry them 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 267 

lightly in butter ; add the chicken, and lightly brown that Put it all 
together into a stewpan, with sufficient water to just cover it Simmer 
very gently for one hour. If made of dressed fowl, use gravy instead of 
water ; but the curry made of a raw fowl is much richer. Serve with 
boiled rice prepared in the Indian way. 

4. Alke Pudding, — Pour i pint of boiling milk upon 3 oz. of grated 
bread, \ lb. of butter, and 4 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; add the 
rind of a large lemon, and sugar to taste. Place any sort of preserve at 
the bottom of a tart-dish ; pour the above over, and bake. 



SEPTEMBER IS. 

• Divine authority within your breast 
Brings every thought^ word, action to the test; 
Warns you or prompts, approves you or restrains. 
As Reason or as Passion takes the reins » 
Heaven from above, and Conscience from within. 
Cries in his startled ear, " Abstain from sin" ' — COWPEIU 



I 

1. Cod. 

2. Faicandeau OF Veal. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Custard Pudding. 



1. Cod. — ^The cod being thoroughly cleansed, a little salt should be 
nibbed over the thick part and inside of the fish, about an hour or two 
before dressing. Put sufficient water into the fish-kettle just to cover 
the fish ; add a little salt, the proportion being 5 oz. of salt to eveiy 
gallon of water; bring the water gradually to the boil, then skim care- 
fully, and let the fish simmer till done ; take it out, drain it, serve on a 
hot napkin garnished with horseradish and sliced lemon. The sauce 
should be oyster sauce and plain butter. 

2. Fricandeau of Veal. — Let the veal be well larded, and place it in 
the stewpan with the larded side uppermost ; then add 2 large tumblers 
of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, 
and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a hal£ Bro>vn 
the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed 
mushrooms. 

4. Ctisiard Pudding. — ^Two large spoonfuls of fine rice flour, a little 
salt, 6 eggs well beaten, some cinnamon, sugar to taste, and a pint of 
cream or new milk ; stir it well, put in a cloth well floured, and boil 
three quarters of an hour; move it about some minutes after it is put 
in the pan. 



268 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



SEPTEMBER 14. 

* Sp:ak not hut what might benefit yourself or others; avoid trifling conversazioni — 

Dr. Franklin. 



1. Roast Boned Leg of Mutton. 

2. Partridges. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Custard Pudding. 



1. Roast Boned Leg of Mutton, — ^Procure a nice small leg of mutton, 
and remove the bone carefully ; make a good veal forcemeat (to which 
about 3 oz. of ham or bacon must be added), and fill up the hole 
from whence the bone has been taken with it ; cover the skin over, 
and sew it neatly up to secure the forcemeat Tie it round, and roast 
it for about three hours before a bright, clear fire. When it is done, 
remove the string, place it on a hot dish, and place round it some good 
brown gravy. 

2. Partridges. — ^They will be all the better for having been drawn as 
soon after they have come to hand as possible. Abstain firom the 
common custom of sticking one leg through the other, as it renders 
the carving difficult A good rich gravy sauce is essential with partridge, 
which, with all its flavour, is a very dry-meated bird. 

3. Vegetables. — ^Take a bunch of turnips ; pare, and, by the aid of a 
vegetable-cutter, form them into fanciful shapes. Boil till tender in 
weak broth, strain as dry as possible, and cover with white sauce, put- 
ting toasted sippets round the dish, unless served with meat, then omit 
the sippets. 

Note. — ^Turnips eat best mashed. The best mode to dry them is to 
squeeze them in a delicately clean cloth, and to add to the butter used 
a little cream and flour ; if stirred over the fire after this admixture, 
they can be served in perfection, namely,, white and dry. 

4. Custard Pudding. — If you cannot procure cream, boil i^ pints of 
new milk, and when quite hot, thicken by stirring in finely-sifted flour ; 
these must be well mixed, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very 
small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5 eggs well beaten up. 
When all these have been properly stirred together, place some light 
puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it 
half an hour's baking in a moderately quick oven. 




BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 269 



SEPTEMBER 18. 

' The^iisttre wJdch affects the human mind with the most lively and transporting 
touches^ is the sense that we act in the eye of infinite wisdom^ power, and goodness thai 
will crown our virtuous endeavours here with happiness hereafter ; large as our desires^ 
oKd lasting as aur immortal souls, ' — ^TlLLOTSON. 



1. Spitchcock Eels. 

2. Roast Sirloin of Beep. 

3. Yorkshire Pudding. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Canton Pudding. 



I. Spitchcock Eels, — Take i or 2 large ones, leave the skin on, cut 
them in pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and 
clean them nicely. Wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten 
egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, a very little sago, 
pepper, salt, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the sea- 
soning. Rub the gridiron with a piece of suet, and broil the fish of a 
fine colour. For sauce, serve with anchovy and butter. 

3. Yorkshire Pudding, — Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour with a quart of 
milk and 3 eggs well beaten. Butter the pan, which should be a square 
one. When browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side 
upwards, and brown that Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it 
some minutes. Cut into square pieces to come to table. 

5. Canton Pudding, — Mix well together the following ingredients : — 
\ lb. of bread-crumbs, \ lb. of beef suet minced fine, and \ lb. of apples 
which have been pared, cored, and chopped small, 6 oz. of sifted loaf 
sugar, the juice and grated peel of i lemon, i pinch of salt ; after well 
mixing, put it into a mould and boil four hours. 



SEPTEMBER 16. 

' The soul reposing on assured rdief, \ 

Feels herself happy amidst all her grief; , 

Forgets her labour as she toils along^ 
Weeps tears of joy ^ and bursts into a song,*^-Cov^VESu 

1. Beef Soup. i 3. Vegetables. 

2. Croquets of Beef. I 4. Welsh Pudding. 

I. Beef Soup, — ^Take i J lbs. firom a shin, or any other part of gravy 
beef» and make cuts in it with a knife so that the gravy may be ex- 
tracted easily ; then put it into the stewpan with about 3 quarts of 
water. Chop i^ lbs. of potatoes up fine, and add them with the green 
peas and the rice to the liquor. Let it all simmer for two hoturs and a 
half; then take out the meat, strain off the liquor, and rub the peas, 
potatoes, and rice through a sieve. Cut 2 heads of celery into thin 



270 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

pieces about an inch and a half long, and put them into the soup ; add 
the pulped vegetables ; pepper and salt to your taste, and stew it for 
another half hour, or xmtil the celery is quite tender. When done, 
serve it with toasted bread cut into small pieces, and put into the 
tureen. 

2. Croquets of Beef, — ^Force and braize them, or take any which may 
be left from dinner; cut them in half or in slices; dip them in batter, 
and fry them a nice brown in hot lard; dish them en miroton (in a 
circle, the half of one overlapping the other), and serve them with fried 
parsley in the centre, or with peas, French beans, or asparagus peas. 

4. Welsh Pudding. — Melt \ lb, of butter gently ; beat with it the 
yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, and the peel of 
a grated lemon. Put a puff paste into a dish for turning out, pour in 
the above, and nicely bake it 



SEPTEMBER 17. 

*Some men would like a sightly companion in marriage^ but none a dissipated 
one; and ail of them^ to a man, dread a woman of expense* — Rev. Jambs Fok- 
DYCX, D.D. 



1. Baked Haddock. 

2. Roast Goose. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Apple Charlotte. 



1. Baked Haddock. — One haddock, some veal stuffing, bread-crumbs, 
and I t!g%. 

2. Roast Goose. — Having picked, drawn, and singed the goose, cut 
off the head and neck, leaving sufficient skin to tie over the neck- 
bone. Take off the legs and wings at the first joint Stuff with chopped 
sage and onion, and a few bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt 
Cut off the end of the vent, and make a slit sufficiently large to admit 
the rump through, in order to keep the stuffing in. Tie the skin of the 
neck securely to prevent the gravy from nmning out, and tie a string 
round the goose over the wings, and another over the legs. Paper the 
breast for a short time. Rub a few pieces of butter in the shoulders 
and back, to baste with ; but, as it is naturally greasy, it will soon yield 
sufficient fat for that purpose. It will require full two hours' roasting. 
It should be well done. Serve it with plenty of gravy and apple sauce. 

4. Apple Charlotte, — Pare and cut up 18 good cooking apples ; put 
them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sugar, the fourth 
part of a nutmeg, 2 cloves, the rind grated and strained juice of 2 
lemons, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil and stir till in a rich mar- 
malade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of 18 Savoy 
biscuits, butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 271 

an upnght position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while 
hot, press it well in, cover with a dish, and let it remain in a cool place 
(or on ice) till firmly set Turn out carefully; cover the top with 
Devonshire cream, or the juice of 2 lemons strained into \ pint of 
thick cream, whipped with a whisk to a creamy frothy and serve at 
once. 

■ ^ - 



SEPTEMBER 18. 

' 7W gardeners^ who were neighbours, had their crops of early peas killed fy thefrosL 
One of them came to condole with the other, **Ah," cried he, * ' how unfortunate I Do 
you know, neighbour, that I have done nothing but fret ever since t But, bless me, you 
seem to hoaie a fine crop coming up I what are these f " " fVhy, these are what I sowed 
immediatdy after my loss,'* '* What I coming up already t" said the fretter, << Yes,'* 
replied Ike other ; *' while you were FRETTING^ / was WO&KING. ' 



»» > 



1. Palestine Soup. | 3. Vegetables. 

2. Roast Hare. | 4. Spongecake Pudding. 

I. Palatine Soup. — ^Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem 
artichokes, 3 turnips, i onion, and a head of celery; put them into a 
stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil 
gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them through 
a sieve. If the^r^ be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk : boil 
all together again ; add \ pint of good cream, or milk, and season it 
with a spoonful of sugar ; pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send 
it up very hot, with some fried bread separately, cut into very small 
dice. 

3. Roast Hare, — After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry 
with a clean cloth, fill the belly with well-seasoned veal stuffing, and 
sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a 
long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one 
skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head 
between the shoulders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the 
ears on. Place it at some distance firom the fire when first it is put 
down, and baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with 
butter. Just before it is done, dredge over it a little flour, and baste 
it well with butter to make a fine froth. When done, take it up on a 
hot dish, remove the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the 
dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. 

4. Spongecakt Pttdding. — Soak some cakes in a little milk, and mix 
them with the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, a piece of butter, 
a very little loaf sugar, and z egg. Beat all together, and bake it in 
a quick oven. 



2 72 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



SEPTEMBER 19- 

* Cod has made sunny spots in the heart; why should we exclude the light from them, t ' 

— Haliburton. 

1. Puree OF Game Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Stewed Beefsteak. | 4. Marrow Pudding. 

1. Furie of Game Soup, — Pick all the flesh from the bones, put it into 
a mortar with a small bit of butter, pound it, and add a little crumb of 
bread soaked in consommL The bones should be put into some good 
consommk to boil, with some spice, vegetables, and herbs, as the last ; 
some of this broth should be used in the pounding. When sufficiently 
pounded, rub the whole through a sieve or tammy into a clean pot. 
Moisten with the broth in which the bones are boiled, using sufficient 
to make it about the consistence of hare soup. Place it on the coiner 
of the stove, to get thoroughly hot without boiling. Season with cayenne 
and salt, and serve with fried bread cut in dice in the tureen. 

2. Stewed Beefsteak, — Peel and chop 2 Spanish onions, cut into small 
parts 4 pickled walnuts, and put them at the bottom of a stewpan ; add 
a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of walnut ditto, i of 
shalot, and i of Chile vinegar. See that the rump-steak be cut of a 
proper thickness, about three-quarters of an inch, and beat it flat with a 
rolling-pin ; place the meat on the top of the onions, etc.; let it stew for 
one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes 
before serving up, throw in a dozen oysters, with their liquor strained 
through a fine sieve. 

4. Marrow Pudding, — ^Blanch 8 oz. of sweet almonds, and beat them 
up in a mortar with a table-spoonful of rose-water ; chop up 6 oz. of 
candied orange and citron ; beat up the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and 
add a glass of sherry or Madeira to them ; shred very fine a lb. of beef 
marrow free from the minute bones, wash and pick \ lb. of currants, 
grate up the crumb of a French roll ; these things done, boil a quart of 
cream, and whilst it is quite hot stir in the ingredients, mixing all well 
together. Rub the sides of a pie-dish with butter, put in the above 
materials, and bake for half an hour. Before serving, strew powdered 
sugar over the top. 




BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 273 



SEPTEMBER 2 O. 

' A noMe Iieart^ like the sun^ thrazoeth its greatest countenance in its lowest estate,'^ — 

Sir p. Sidney. 



1. Fried Conger. 

2. Hashed Beef. 

3. Vegetables. 



4. Strawberry AND Crumb 
Pudding. 



z. FrUd Cotter. — Cut the conger into slices an inch and a half or 
two inches thick, or a little thicker, according to the size of the fish. 
This is the best way to cut conger for frying, and most other purposes 
for which it may require similar subdivision ; because by it the solid 
back of the fish and the richer under part go together, which they do not 
when collops are cut longitudinally. Cover the fish with t%;g and 
bread-crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, made to boil before the fish is 
put in« Take care that the frying-pan is perfectly clean, and that the 
fish is fried to a bright colour. Serve it with lemon to squeeze over it, 
plain melted butter, oyster sauce, shrimp sauce, or any sauce preferred. 

2. Hashed Beef. — ^Put the gravy of the meat into a stewpan, with a 
pint of water, a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, half an onion chopped 
very fine, half a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne ; 
boil for about ten minutes, dip out a cupful of the liquid, and rub a 
table-spoonfiil of flour in it, then stir it well into the stewpan, and let all 
boil for ten minutes ; pass it through a sieve, return it to the pan, put in 
the slices of beef, and just before taking up throw in half a wine-glass 
of Tarragon vinegar. 

4. Strawberry and Crumb Pudding, — A quart of new milk, 4 eggs, a 
little nutmeg, 2 oz. of sugar, i small pot of strawberry jam, \ lb. of bread- 
crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, and put a small pot of strawberry jam at the 
bottom, then a good layer of bread-crumbs. Well beat 4 eggs ; stir into 
them 2 oz. of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg ; add a quart 
of new milk, and stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently thick ; pour 
it over the preserve very gradually, and bake the pudding in a veiy 
moderate oven. 

— (^ — 



SEPTEMBER 21. 

' When two affectionaie^ congenial hearts are united to each other^ matrimony has no 
unpleasant side ; for when they find thorns scattered on their path^ they carefully and 
cheerfully remove them J — KoTZEBUE. 

1. Herrings. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Rabbit Pie. | 4. Apple Dumpuncs. 

I. Herrir^s, — ^With a sharp penknife make three or four incisions 

across the fish on each side ; cut an onion in thin slices 3 place both on 

s 



274 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

the gridiron, and turn them occasionally till done. Have melted butter 
ready, in which 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup have been poured, 
and a little fresh mustard. 

2. Rabbit Pie. — Parboil and cut into joints a couple of rabbits. Chop 
up the livers very fine, and add to them \ lb. of fat bacon boiled, 
enough soluble cayenne and powdered mace to cover a shilling, a 
spoonful of salt, the leaves of half a dozen sprigs of parsley, and a shalot 
finely chopped ; mix these well together, and lay them at the bottom of 
the dish ; place the joints over the forcemeat, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls 
of ham extract, and fill up with veal stock ; cover with puff paste, and 
bake for an hour and a hal£ 

4. Apple Dumplings, — ^Make a good piste ; pare some large apples, 
cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and in place of them put in a 
clove and a piece of lemon-peel cut very thin ; take a piece of cnist 
enough for one apple, roU it round, put the quarters together, and roll 
the crust round it with a little flour in your hand. Have a pot of water 
boiling ; take a dean doth, dip it into the water, shake flour over it, and 
tie each dumpling by itself; put them in, and keep the water boiling all 
the time ; if the apples be not large, half an hour will boil them. When 
they are done enough, take them up, lay them on a dish, throw fine 
sugar over them, and send them to table with firesh melted butter in a 
boat, and finely-beaten sugar in a saucer. 



SEPTEMBER 22. 
* Thu love, like the eye, can bear no flaw,* — Lavater. 



1. Hare Soup. 

2. Hotch-potch of Mutton. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Plain Tapioca Pudding. 



I. Hare Soup. — Skin a large hare, saving the blood when you empty 
it Do not wash, but wipe it thoroughly. Cut it up into joints, and 
put them with the blood into an earthen vessel that will hold 6 or 7 
pintSp Add 2 large onions quartered, 2 or 3 lbs. of lean bee( whole 
pepper, mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few doves. Nearly fill 
the vessel with boiling water, tie its top down dose with a bladder, and 
set it to cook in a boiler of water for three or four hours. Pour off the 
soup, thicken it with a little flour and butter, stirring in a table-spoonful 
of any approved sauce — ^as Worcester, Reading, Harvey, mushroom, or 
walnut ketchup, essence of anchovy, soy, or Sidmouth sauce, or two or 
three of the above sauces mixed. Make quite hot, and send to table 
with the best parts oi the meat of the hare thrown into it, and forcemeat- 
balls. 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER, ays 

2. Hotch-potch of Mutton, — Cut some carrots and turnips into corks ; 
blanch and put them into some clear brown stock, with some button- 
onions and celery cut in strips, and boil tender. In the meantime cut and 
trim neatly a few mutton chops ; stew them separately in some broth until 
tender ; put them into the stewpan with the roots a few minutes before 
serving, and season it with salt and pepper. Toast some thin slices of 
bread and put in the bottom of the tureen ; pour on a little broth to 
soak the bread. Put the chops on the bread without breaking it, and 
pour in the soup and vegetables on the top. 

4. Plcun Tapioca Pudding, — One oz. and a half of tapioca, a pint of 
milk, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, grated lemon-peel. 



SEPTEMBER 23. 

' My way must be straight on. True with the tongue^ 
False with the heart, I may not, cannot be,^ — COLERIDGE. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. Plain Swiss Pudding. 



1. Conger Eel Soup. 

2. Ma&inade OF Beef Palates. 

3. Tripe Roasted, 

1. Conger Ed Soup, — Head and tail of a large conger eel, 3 quarts of 
water, \ lb. of butter, i leek, the blossoms of 4 or 5 marigolds, and a 
few leaves, \ pint of green peas, or the white heart of a cabbage, half 
a tea-cup of parsley, a bunch of thyme, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, a 
pint of milk, and a little salt. 

2. Marinade of Beef Palates, — Prepare the palates ; cut them in 
pieces about the size of the finger, and steep them for three or four 
hours in a souse made with sufficient vinegar to cover them ; pepper, 
salt, a few blades of mace, cloves, 2 or 3 bay leaves, parsley, th)mae, 
onions and carrots sliced ; warm them in this, and set them aside to 
cooL Drain, flour, egg, and bread-crumb them ; fry a nice brown ; dish 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

3. Tripe Roasted, — Cut the tripe into good-sized pieces, and spread 
some forcemeat over them ; roll them up securely, and tie them upon a 
small spit, or roast them in a cradle spit ; flour and baste them with 
butter, and serve them up garnished with lemon in slices, and melted 
butter. 

5. Plain Swiss Pudding. — Chop very fine 6 oz. of beef suet, and 
mix it well with 8 oz. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of apples, pared, cored, 
and minced fine ; add 8 oz. of powdered white sugar, the juice of i 
lemon, and the peel grated, with a pinch of salt Well mix all the 
above ingredients, and put it into a buttered mould ; boil it, and when 
done, turn it out and serve; 



276 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

SEPTEMBER 24. 

* Lave is an old story ^ yet remains ever new.* — Heinrich Heine. 



1. Roast Leg of Mutton. 

2. Grouse Pie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Dutch Pudding. 



1. Roast Leg of Mutton. — Allow a quarter of an hour per lb., and 
roast by a brisk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use 
with roast mutton is made by putting 2 glasses of port wine, one of 
Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar into a small 
saucepan, and pouring the contents over the joint just before 
serving. 

2. Grouse Fie, — Line a pie-dish with the steak cut into small pieces. 
If the grouse be small, lay them in whole ; if large, cut them into joints. 
Season highly with salt, cayenne and black pepper ; pour in the broth, 
and cover with a puff paste ; brush the crust over with the yolk of an 
egg, and bake from three-quarters to one hour. If the grouse are large, 
the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by stewing them with 
an onion, a blade of mace, and a little sheny. This should be poured 
in after the pie is baked. 

4. Dutch Pudding, — Melt i lb. of butter in \ pint of milk ; mix 2 lbs. 
of flour, 8 eggs well beaten, and 4 spoonfuls of yeast ; set it before the 
fire to rise for an hour; add i lb. of currants and ^ lb. of sugar. 



SEPTEMBER 26. 

* Discharge ariglii 
The simple dues with which each day is rife.^ — ScHILLER. 



1. Stewed Eels. 

2. Cold Roast Mutton. 

3. Beetroot Salad. 



4. Mashed Potatoes. 

5. Ground Rice. 



I. Stewed Eels, — Skin and cut the fish into lengths of about two 
inches ; fill a frying-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it 
over a slow fire. Extract as much of the oily fat firom the fish as pos- 
sible, keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent 
their touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to drain for a 
couple of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 
table-spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, 2 glasses of sherry, a 
third of soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, 
and a dozen small silver onions ; let the fish stew in these ingredients 
over a slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve ; should 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 277 

it require thickening, add a little flour, beat up with the yolk of an Qg%^ 
lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce quite hot over the dish. 
Garnish with slices of lemon. 

2. Cold Roast Mutton. — It can be either eaten with a salad, with 
piquant sauce, but used cold ; or with pickles, walnuts, red cabbage, or 
mixed West India, according to the taste of the diner. 

3. Beetroot Salad, — Boil a fine head of beetroot till tender. When 
cold, a few minutes before wanted, cut it in slices, and pour over the 
following sauce : — Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil ; when well mixed, add a table-spoonful of French 
vinegar, a little salt to taste ; and last, mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls 
of thick cream. 

5. Ground Rice. — Set \ lb. of ground rice in i pint of milk on the 
fire till it thickens, but not till it boils, stirring constantly ; put it in a 
basin with ^ lb. of firesh butter, stirring till the butter is melted ; throw 
a thin cloth over, and let it stand till the next day ; then add 3 eggs 
well beaten, with a little salt, cinnamon, and sugar to taste ; add a 
spoonful of rose-water, and \ lb. of currants, well cleaned and dried. 
Bake either in puff paste or without 



SEPTEMBER 26. 

* My mvn I my own ! oh^ breathes there one 
To whom that simple word's not dear ? 
Beats there a heart so drear and lone 
That holds not some loved object near?* — Charles Swain. 

1. Mackerel. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Roast Tongue. I 4. Spongecake Pudding. 

1. Mackerel. — Cut the fish open sufficiently to empty the inside; 
remove the roes, and thoroughly wash them and the mackerel. Put the 
fish into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large table-spoonful of salt ; 
bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer for about twenty minutes if 
the fish is large ; if small, fifteen minutes will be sufficient, or even less 
time ; but they must be taken carefully out when the eyes are starting. 
Remove the scum as it rises ; and when done, serve them on a napkin, 
and send fennel sauce, plain melted butter, or gooseberry sauce to table 
with them. 

2. Roast Tor^iu. — ^A fresh ox-tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and 
sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety 
to the routine of ordinary dishes. 

4. Spongecake Pudding. — Butter a mould thickly, stick it all over with 
dried cherries, almonds, or rabins. Fill the mould three parts with 



278 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW, 



small spongecakes soaked in wine, and fill up the mould with a rich 
custard. Then butter a piece of paper, put it on the mould, tie it 
securely over, and boil it. 

— a — 

SEPTEMBER 27. 

' In council^ ^tis good to see dangers ; and in execution^ not to see them unless they are 

very great, ' — Bacon. 

1. Savoury Haddock. . 3. Sea Kale. 

2. Roast Goose. | 4. Damson Batter Pudding. 

1. Savoury Haddock, — ^After cleaning the interior, dry it with a cloth, 
and stufif the fish with the same forcemeat you would use for a fillet of 
veal ; tie the tail to the mouth, and place the haddock in a deep pie- 
dish ; rub it over with flour, and half fill the dish with veal stock ; then 
let it bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 

2. Roast Goose, — Having paid due attention to the cleaning, picking, 
and singeing of the bird, let the following stuffing be prepared : — ^Two 
oz. of undressed onion and i of sage leaves must be first chopped 
small ; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper, 
must be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the whole 
moistened with the yolk and white of an egg well whisked. In putting 
the stuffing into the bird, give it space wherein to swell, under the action 
of the fire ; when you have put the goose upon the spit, secure the neck 
and pope's nose with twine, to prevent the stuffing fi-om falling out, and 
to keep the bird steady. A laige goose will require somewhat more 
than an hour and a half s roasting. Be sure it be well basted, and sent 
to table of a rich brown hue, with a boatful of gravy sauce, another of 
apple sauce, and some newly made mustard. • 

3. Sea Kak, — The roots having been pared, the kale should be 
washed, tied in a bundle, and put into boiling water into which a couple 
of table-spoonfuls of salt have been thrown. Ten or twelve minutes' 
boiling will be found sufficient Serve on a toast, and have a boatful of 
melted butter ready to send to table with it. 

4. Damson Batter Pudding, — ^Take about i or ij. pints of ripe 
damsons, or other plums ; take out the stones and rub them through a 
sieve ; stir this with the batter, adding about 6 oz. of sugar ; pour into 
a well-buttered basin or mould, tie a floured doth over, and boil one 
hour. When done, turn it out of the basin, and serve with sweet sauce. 
A mixture of apple with damson destroys tlie unpleasant roughness of 
the latter fruit An excellent tart may be made with Morella cherries 
and apples. 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 



279 



SEPTEMBER 28. 

' EnUrtain a just esteem for yoursdves, /would, on the one hand, guard you against 
everything degrading; and, on the other, awaken your amhition to act up h the best 
standard of your sex,^to aspire at every amiable, every noble quality that is proportioned 
to your state, or that can ensure the affection and preserve the importance to which you 
were bom,* — Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 



1. Soles Filleted and Stewed. 

2. Veal Rissoles. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding. 



1. Soles Filleted and Stewed, — Soles should be large for filleting. 
Have 3 soles filleted, and cut into 12 pieces; chop 2 shalots and 3 
sprigs of parsley very fine, spread them over the bottom of a shallow 
copper o6telette-pan, double each fillet of sole, and lay the pointed ends 
in the centre of the pan, and it will form something lUce a star. Throw 
over a glass of sherry, and stew on your gas stove or hot plate for two 
and a half minutes ; turn the 12 pieces, and have the following mixture 
ready to pour in the centre of the pan : — ^Three tea-spoonfuls of mush- 
room ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonfiil of sugar, 
I tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and ^ tea-spoonful of cayenne. When 
the fish comes to boil, they are done, which will be about two and a half 
minutes. This dish is best served smoking in the pan as cooked. 

When the soles are filleted, have the heads and bones sent home; put 
them in \ pint water, and stew with some parsley ; pepper and salt 
This will make a thick jelly, which, added to any other broth, will be 
nice for the following day. 

2. Veal Rissoles, — Mince very finely some slices of cold roast veal 
with a few slices of ham or bacon ; add i table-spoonful of savoury 
herbs, i table-spoonful of parsley, both minced, i blade of pounded mace; 
put pepper and salt to taste, and grate a very little nutmeg. Mix into 
a paste with an egg in the shape of cones or balls. Brush them over 
with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry a rich brown. Garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve with brown gravy. 

4. Ground Rice Pudding. — Set i\ pints of new milk on the fire ; mix 
6 oz. of ground rice quite smooth with ^ pint of cold milk ; add this to 
the other milk when nearly boiling, and stir over the fire till pretty 
thick, then pour into a basin, leaving uncovered till nearly cold ; sweeten 
to taste, add a litde salt, and 6 eggs well beaten. Boil i]^ hours in a 
basin well buttered. 



28o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



SEPTEMBER 29. 

* Prejudice may be considered as a continual false medium of viewing things; for 
prejudiced persons not only never speak^ but never think ivdl of those whom they dislike,* 
—Butler. 

1. Pepperpot. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Hot Pot. I 4. Venetian Fritters. 

1. Pepperpot, — Put 4 lbs. of gravy beef into 6 quarts of water, with 
the bouquet of savoury herbs ; let it simmer well till all the goodness 
is extracted, skimming it well. Let it stand till cold, that all the fat 
may be taken off it Put it into a stewpan and heat it When \xA 
add the flesh of 2 middling-sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up; 
spinach well boiled and chopped fine; \ a pound of cold bacon or 
pickled pork, dressed previously and cut into small pieces ; a few small 
dumplings, made very light with flour, beef-suet, yolk of egg, and a little 
water. Add z poimd of asparagus tops; season to your taste with 
cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a lemon ; stew for about half an 
hour, stirring it constantly. 

2. Hot Pot, — Cut 3 lbs. of rump-steak into square pieces ; cut 8 or 
10 potatoes in quarters, some whole small onions (and mushrooms if in 
season), with 6 kidneys ; well season with cayenne, black pepper, and 
salt Place all in layers, one on the other; pour over them 3 or 4 table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and put 6 or 7 dozen oysters at the 
top ; cover with a crust, and bake for two hours. A few larks or snipes 
are considered a great addition. This dish must be made in a fire- 
proof-pan, in shape like a cheese-pan or turtle-mug. 

4. Venetian Fritters, — Pick, wash, and drain 3 oz. of whole rice ; put 
it into a full pint of cold milk, and bring it very slowly to boil ; stir 
often, and let it simmer gently until quite thick and dry. When about 
three parts done, add 2 oz. of pounded sugar, and i of fresh butter, a 
grain of salt, and the grated rind of ^ a small lemon. Let it cool in 
the saucepan, and when only just warm mix with it thoroughly 3 oz. of 
currants, 4 apples chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of flour, and 3 well- 
beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in small fritters; fry them in butter from 
5 to 7 minutes, and let them become quite firm on one side before they 
are turned : do this with a slice. Drain them as tliey are taken up, and 
sift white sugar over when dished. 



BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 



SEPTEMBER Sa 

• T7u calm of truth-ttitd lovi.' — CoWPER. 

I. Boiled Soles. 
3. JucGED Hake and Currant 
Jelly. I 

1, Boiltd Seles. — ^To 2 middling-sized soles, take i pint of milk, i pint 
of water, i oz. butter, i oz. salt, and a little lemon-juice. Wash, but do 
not skin the soles ; lay them in a fish-kettle with the above ingredients ; 
bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer very gently till done, which 
will be in about seven minutes. Take them up, drain them well on a 
cloth, put on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. 

2. Jugged Hare and Currant Jelly. — Divide an undressed hare into 
joints ; let them be larded with bacon. Mix well, upon the dish on 
which you have made the dissection, a spoonfiil of salt, and half a one 
of soluble cayenne and pounded mace, a few leaves of mixed sweet 
herbs ; add to these four silver onions, half a dozen cloves, a gill of port 
wine, half a pint of spring water, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. 
Put all into a jug with a close-fitting top, and place it in a saucepan of 
boiling water for three hours. Lay the meat on a dish before the Are, 
strain the liquor, boil it up, and pour it over the hare just before send- 
ing it to table. 

4. Grateful Pudding. — One lb. of flour, 1 lb. of white bread grated, 
and 6 eggs ; beat the e^s up, and mix with them a pint of new milk ; 
then stir in the bread and flour, and i lb. of raisins stoned, i lb. of 
currants, \ lb, of sugar, and a little ginger ; mix all well together, put 
into a dish, and bake. 



282 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER. 
Centre-piece, a basket of fresh flowers. 



1. Compote d'epine-vinette. 

2. Compote i>i^ pommes a l'espag- 

NOLE. 



3. Citron Maca&oons. 

4. GeLEE D*£PINE-VINETTE. 

Filberts, Apples, Figs, Grapes. 



I. COMPOTE d'epine-vinette. 

Take a lb. of ripe barberries ; do not stem them, but let them remain 
in bunches ; boil them slowly in a strong syrup of sugar and water for 
seven minutes, strain them from the syrup, arrange them in a glass 
dessert-dish, and before pouring the syrup over them, add to them a 
small glass of eau-de-vie. This compote is gready improved by the 
addition of a little jelly, or fresh fruit juice, to give colour to the syrup. 



2. COMPOTE D£ POMMES A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Peel 9 or 10 small pippins, core them carefully so as not to de- 
stroy the appearance of the fruit ; as you do them, throw them into a 
stewpan in which you have a quart of water, the juice of two lemons, 
and a lb. of loaf sugar ; add two chopped dressing apples ; place it over 
the fire and simmer it slowly. When the pippins are tender, take them 
up and arrange them in your dish. Reduce the syrup until it gives 
away from the sides of the saucepan ; pour it into as many small cups 
as you have pippins. When it is cold and firm, turn one over each 
of the pippins, and serve. 

3. CITRON MACAROONS. 

Take the rasped rind of two lemons, and a lb. and 12 oz. each of 
blanched sweet almonds and fine dry sifted loaf sugar. Pound the 
almonds, citron rind, and the whites of four eggs in a mortar; add 
your sugar; beat all well together^ and form the paste into small balls; 
lay them upon paper, glaze them, and bake them for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

4. gelee d'epimk-vinette. 

Choose some fine ripe barberries, stem them, and to each lb. of fiuit 
put 12 oz. of loaf sugar and half a pint of water ; put them into a jar or 
saucepan, and dress them until they are soft, then press them through 
a gauze sieve ; take the juice that is obtained, and simmer it down until 
it is thick enough. 



OCTOBER 1. 
'Afflklient darify thi nxi/.'— Quarles. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

Meat : Venison— Pork— Beef— Veal— Motion. 

POOLTRV : Larks— Fowls— Chickens— Teal— Geese— Pigeons— Pullets— Wild Dock 
— W idgeons— Turkeys. 

GjUIE : Partridges — Doe Venison— Grouse— Blackcock — Hares — Pheasants— Wood- 
cocks — Rabbits — Snipe. 

Fish : Herrings— Gudgeons— Crabs— Barbel— Cod— Brill-Eels— Lobsters— Turbot 
—Prawns— Flounders— PI ake— Mullet— Skate— Oysten— Soles— Hadd ock— 
Whiting— Turbot— Tench. 

Vegetables : Cabbages — Celery — Beets — Cauliflowers — Carrots — Artichokes- 
Lettuces — Tomatoes — Mushrooms — Potatoes— Onions — Sprouts — V^etable 
Marrows — Turnips — Various Herbs. 

rRurrs in season. 

—Black and White Bulloces— Filberts— Apples— 

I 3. Polka Pudding. 

I 4. Vegetables. 

I. Oyster Fritter t. — Open a quart of oysters, strain the liquoi into a. 
basin, and add to it ^ a pint of milk and 2 well-beaten eggs ; stir in by 
d^ees flour enough to make a smooth but rather thin batter; when 
perfectly free from lumps, put the oysters into it Have some beef 
dripping or butter made hot in a very clean frying-pan, and season with 
a little salt ; and when it is boiling, drop in the batter with a large spoon, 
putting one or more oysters in each spoonful. Hold the pan over a 
gentle fire until one side of the batter is a delicate brown ; turn each 
flitter separately, and when both sides are done, place them on a hot 
dish, and serve. 

a. Roast Geese. — When the goose has been picked and singed, put 
into the body 3 boiled onions chopped finely, and mixed with a little 
sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a little black pepper; to these put a 



284 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

small piece of butter. Truss your goose, and roast it at a brisk fire. 
Serve it with made gravy and apple sauce. When the taste is in favour of 
a milder seasoning, mix a handful of fine bread-crumbs with the other 
stuffing. Some fill their goose with potatoes boiled very dry, mashed 
and well mixed with butter, some salt and cayenne pepper : sage and 
onions are also added to this. A very good mixture can be made in the 
following manner : — A tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and 
cayenne, mixed smoothly, with a glass of wine poured into the goose 
before it is served. 

3. Foika Pudding, — Four table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, i quart of 
new milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. of butter or 3 large spoonfuls of rich cream, 
3 oz. of bitter almonds, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange or rose water. 



OCTOBER 2. 

* The etemaJ stars shine out^ as soon as it is dark enough,'' — Carlyle. 

3. Romford Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Fried Oysters. 

2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak. 



1. Fried Oysters, — Boil one minute 3 dozen oysters in their own 
liquor, and drain them ; fry them with 2 oz. butter, \ tea-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, i table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little chopped 
lemon-peel. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets, fried potatoes, and 
parsley fried. 

2. Fatridan Bubble and Squeak, — Cold roast veal, divested of the 
outside skin, cut into bits about an inch long, with the white parts only 
of cauliflowers, previously dressed, and also cut up small ; these warmed 
up in a frying-pan, in ^ a pint of cream, and seasoned with a slight 
sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, will be found a very delightful 
dish. 

3. Romford Fudding. — Peel the apples, and take out all the core ; fill 
them up with sugar, and place them in a pie-dish. Cover them with a 
light batter, and bake. 



OCTOBER 8. 

* With the wind of tribulation, God separates, in the floor of the soul, the chaff 

from the com,* — MOLINOS. 



1. Smelts. 

2. Calf's Heart. 

3. Stewed Rabbit. 



4. Norfolk Dumplings. 

5. Vegetables. 



T. Smelts, — To a dozen smelts have about \ lb. butter, 2 blades of 
pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. Wash and well diy the fish 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 285 

in a dothy and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them 
with fine bread-crumbs, with little pieces of butter all over tliem. 
Season, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving add a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with cut lemon and fried parsley. 

2. Caips Heart. — Put the heart to disgorge in lukewarm water for 
an hour nearly ; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly seasoned 
veal stuffing or forcemeat ' Cover it with buttered paper, and set it 
down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any sharp 
sauce. Send it up as hot as possible to table. 

3. Stewed Rabbit, — Clean the rabbits thoroughly, cut them up, and 
scald them for a short time ; put some sliced onions and a bit of dripping 
into your pot, and fry the rabbits with them till slightly browned ; dredge 
in a little flour, then add hot water sufficient to make gravy ; pepper and 
salt and a little ketchup. Stew them very gently for an hour. 

4. Norfolk Dumplings. — ^Take about a lb. of dough from a baking 
of light bread, and divide it into small pieces, mould them into 
dumplings, drop them into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil 
them quickly. Send them to table the instant they are dished up, with 
wine sauce, or melted butter sweetened. 

OCTOBER 4. 

* The very afflictions of our earthly pilgrimage are presages of our ftdure glory ^ as 

shadows indicate the sun,'' — Richter. 



1. Soup Lobster. 

2. Beefsteaks. 

3. Sauce for ditto. 



4. Orange Pudding. 
$. Vegetables. 



1. Soup Lobster. — Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of 
6 small lobsters ; take away the brown fur and the bag in the head ; 
beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar. Boil it very gently 
in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, 
salt, 2 anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, 
tiU you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the 
spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a ^ of a nutmeg, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into 
pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with 
forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, 
salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up 
with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 

2. Beefsteaks, — A fine, tender rump-steak, if properly dressed, is a 
dish worthy of an Englishman. A bright, clear fire is essential Let 
the gridiron be carefully cleaned, rub the bars with suet, and put it over 



286 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

the fire until quite hot ; the steak should be moie than \ an inch thick ; 
whilst dressing, turn it backwards and forwards till done ; rub it over 
with butter, and pour over it, quite hot, two tea-spoonfuls of shalot 
vinegar, in which some soluble horseradish has been dissolved. In the 
season it may also be served with oyster sauce. 

3. Sauce for ditto, — Set 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and 
when browning, throw in 3 onions cut into small slices ; fry brown, but 
do not bum them ; put i tea-spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, 
and give the whole another fry. Put in salt and pepper to taste, with 4 
table-spoonfuls of gtavy or stock, and boil it gently ten minutes. Skim 
off the fat ; add vinegar and made mustard, i tea-spoonful of each, and 
the juice of half a lemon ; give it one boil, and pour round the dish. 

4. Orange Pudding, — Put a small piece of butter into a stewpan; 
break into it the yolks of 5 eggs, then grate the rind of the 2 oranges 
into it, and squeeze the juice in tlirough a sieve to catch the seed sand 
pulp. Add as much lump sugar as w^ make it pleasant the quantity 
depending on the acidity of the oranges, anid stir it over the fire till it 
becomes as thick as custard. Line a tart-dish with puff paste, put in the 
orange custard, and bake it 



OCTOBER 8. 

* The end of all is an action^ not a thought^ though it were of the noisiest.*—' 

Thomas Carlyle. 



1. Fried Whiting. 

2. Mutton Cutlets. 



3. Fried Parsnips. 

4. Plum Pudding. 



1. Fried Whiting, — Clean the whitings, take off the skin, turn them 
rounds and fasten the tail into the mouth ; dry them in flour. Brush 
them over with an ^^ well beaten, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry 
them in hot lard ; and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried 
parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. 

2. Mutton Cutlets. — Trim the fat entirely from some cutlets taken firom 
the loin ; dredge them carefully and moderately with pepper, and plenti- 
fully on both sides with flour ; rinse a thick iron saucepan with water, and 
leave a couple of table-spoonfuls in it ; arrange the cutlets in one flat 
layer, if it can be done conveniently, and place them over a gentle fire ; 
throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as 
softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an 
hour and a hal£ If dressed with great care, which they require, they 
will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious ; and being at 
the same time free from everything which can disagree with the most 
delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids. 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 287 



The mutton should be of good quality, but the excellence of the dish 
mainly depends on its being most gently stewed ; for if allowed to boil 
quickly, aU the gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for the 
table. The cutlets must be turned when they are half done ; a couple 
of spoonfuls of hot water or gravy can be added to them if they do not 
yield sufficient gravy. 

3. Fried Parsnips, — ^Parsnips parboiled whole, then cut into pieces 
and fried in butter, are much more delicious, and easier of digestion, 
than when sent to table plain boiled. 

4. Plum Pudding. — One pound of raisins, \ a pound of suet, i pound 
of flour, 4 oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, i pint of 
milk, nutmeg, and grated ginger. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it 
with the flour. Add the bread-crumbs, ginger, and nutmeg, and the 
raisins stoned, and mix it all well together with the milk and treacle. 
Put it into a basin, or floured cloth, and boil it 



OCTOBER 6. 

*No decking sets forth anything so much as ajficticn. ' — SiR P. Sidney. 

1. Boiled Whiting. | 3. Baked Codung PuDDura 

2. Roast Widgeon. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Boiled Whiting. — ^Thoroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the 
fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a 
boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your 
fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches 
of double parsley. Serve with anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter. 

2. Roast Widgeon. — ^Two birds are sufficient for a dish. Pluck and 
draw them carefully ; cut ofl* the heads close to the necks, leaving suffi- 
cient skin to turn over ; do not cut off the feet ; twist each leg at the 
knuckle, and rest the claws on each side of the breast Roast them 
before a quick fire, but do not baste them for the first five minutes after 
they are put down ; afterwards baste them plentifully with butter; a few 
minutes before serving dredge them lightly with flour. If liked well 
done, they will take about twenty minutes, but they should not be over- 
done. When browned and nicely frothed, send very hot and quickly to 
table, with a cut lemon, and the following orange gravy, made as follows: 
—Cut a small onion into slices, put it in a stewpan with a \ pint of white 
stock, 3 or 4 strips of orange or lemon peel, and a few leaves of basil, 
if at hand; simmer very gendy for about fifteen minutes, or till the giavy 
is nicely flavoured with the peeL Strain it off", and add the juice of a 
Seville orange or lemon, i glass of port wine, salt and pepper to taste > 



288 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

let the whole heat through ; when at the point of boiling, serve very 
hot in a covered tureen. 

3. Baked Codling Pudding, — Roast half a dozen large codling apples, 
and take out the pulp. Beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 
eggs; add \ a pound of powdered white sugar, the same weight of 
clarified butter, the juice of a lemon, its rind cut very small, an ounce 
of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small portions, a wine glass 
of brandy, and the crumb of a French roll finely grated. Mix up these 
ingredients well together. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the 
materials, and send to the oven. Before serving, cover the top with 
powdered sugar, and garnish the sides with candied firuit 



OCTOBER 7. 

* Immoderate assurance is perfect ticetitiousness,* — Shenstone. 



1. Red Mullet. 

2. Stewed Fowls. 



3. Cranberry Tart. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Red Mullet — Place the mullets in a saut^-pan with the butter, 
sauce, and wine. Bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take 
the fish out of the pan ; strain off their liquor ; add to it the truffles, 
mushrooms, parsley, shalot, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and flour; stir all 
together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison of 3 
well-beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonfiil of cream. Take 2 sheets of 
letter paper, oil them well, lay the mullets on them, and spread an equal 
proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and 
roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow 
fire, sufficiently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, 
but be careful not to bum the paper. When done, serve them on a 
napkin. 

2. Slewed Fowls. — Order a pair of fowls to be sent without being 
trussed, and let the heads and necks be sent with them. Take one of 
the fowls, cut the leg and thigh into 2 pieces, each wing into 2 pieces^ 
the back into 3 pieces, and the breast into 2 pieces. These, with the 
merry-thought, making 14 pieces. Cut a Spanish or other onion up 
small ; put it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and a little salt and 
cayenne \ stew it about an hour, till it is a complete pulp. Half an 
hour before you want it, put in the 14 pieces of chicken ; let them stew 
half an hour, and when done, put into your silver dish a tea-spoonful of 
French or Spanish garlic vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon. Mind 
it requires no water ; the fowl will be done in its own gravy. 

Cut the other fowl the same way, into 14 pieces. Let the heads and 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER, 289 

necks be picked and scalded, stew them in \ pint of water ; and when 
all the goodness is extracted, strain off the liquor, put it in a stewpan 
with a pint of button mushrooms, a little pepper and salt, and put in the 
14 pieces of fowL Stew them till done, which will be in about half an 
hour, and thicken with a little arrowroot ; before serving, put into your 
silver dish a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. The 2 fowls will be 
enough for 8 or 10 persons. Grouse and partridges are nicer this way 
than roasted; also a young turkey poult, and pigeons also when in 
season. 

3. Cranberry Tart. — ^Wash a quart of berries in several waters, dry 
on a coarse cloth, and pick carefully. Mix in a basin with \ lb. of 
finely-powdered white sugar, and squeeze the juice of ^ a lemon over 
the fruit Put all into a pi6-dish, with a light paste for the top, and 
bake for forty minutes. 



OCTOBER 8. 

* Stiff people lose some of their awkwardness under high ceilings,* — ^EMERSON. 



1. Roast Sirloin or Ribs 

OF Beef. 

2. Yorkshire Pudding. 



3. Vegetable Marrow. 

4. Fritters. 



2. Yorkshire Pudding, — Take an equal number of eggs and of heaped 
table-spoonfuls of flour, with a tea-spoonful of salt to six of these. Whisk 
the eggs well; strain and mix them gradually with the flour ; then pour 
in nearly i pint of milk, or as much as will make the batter the con- 
sistence of rather thin cream. The tin for the pudding should be placed 
for some time previously under the joint that is roasting (beef is best). 
Beat the batter lightly and briskly the instant before it is poured in the 
pan ; watch that it does not bum, and let the eggs have an equal share 
of the fire. Turn it, to brown the under side, when it is firm in every 
part, and well-coloured on the surface ; this is best accomplished by first 
dividing it into quarters. 

3. Vegetable Marrow, — In boiling, never pierce the vegetable with a 
fork, or you render it watery directly : you may judge when it is suffi- 
ciently dressed by the ease with which you can rub off the outside skin. 
The best mode of cooking it is to stew it in a good, rich sauce ; it is also 
very palatable cut into quarters, when half grown, and fried either in 
batter or butter. 

4. Fritters, — Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick as 
your finger, in what shape you will Soak in some cream, nutmeg, 
sugar, an egg, and pounded cinnamon. When well soaked, fry of a nice 
brown, and serve with butter and sweet wine sauce. 

T 



290 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

OCTOBER 9. 

* The highest art is artlessness, ' — F. A. DURIVAGE. 

1. Partridge Soup. I 3. Boiled Apple Dumpling. 

2. Cold Roast Beef Broiled. I 4. Vegetables. 

1. Partridge Soup, — Skin 2 old partridges ; cut them into pieces, with 
3 or 4 slices of ham, 3 large onions cut in slices, and a stick of celery. 
Fry them all in butter till brown, but be careful not to bum them. 
Then put them into a stewpan, with 5 pints of boiling water, a Few 
pepper-corns, a little salt, and a shank or two of mutton. Stew it gently 
two hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again in a stewpan 
with some fried bread and stewed celery. When near boiling, skim it, 
pour into a tureen, and serve it up hot 

2. Cold Roast Beef Broiled, — Nicely season and broil a few slices of 
cold roast beef; pare 4 or 5 potatoes as you would peel an apple ; fry 
the parings in a thin batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little 
ketchup, till of a light brown ; then pour them over the slices of bee^ 
and serve very hot. 

3. Boiled Apple Dumpling, — ^Make a good paste ; roll it out \ an 
inch thick, but quite thin round the edge ; pare and core apples suffi- 
cient to fill the crust; close it up, tie it up tight in a cloth, and boil it 
from two to three hours according to the size. When it is done, turn 
it into a dish, cut a piece of crust out of the top, put in a good lump of 
butter and as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste, a little grated 
lemon-peel, and one drop of oil of cinnamon ; stir it well in the pudding, 
lay on the crust, and send it to table hot 



OCTOBER 10. 

* // is worse to apprehend than to suffer,'* — ^Bruyers. 

1. Stewed Partridge. 3. Currant and Apple Dumpukgs. 

2. Beef Olives. 4. Vegetables. 

I. Stewed Partridge, — Having trussed the birds as fowls are trussed 
for boiling, take the livers and pound them with double the quantity of 
bread-crumbs and fat bacon boiled in milk; add flavoming composed 
of chopped parsley, shalots, thyme, mushrooms, all in equal proportions, 
and season with pepper, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel. Stuff the 
birds, and tie them up at both ends ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon, 
and add a sufficient quantity of stock to stew the birds in ; let them 
simmer very gendy till done, take them out, thicken and strain the 
gravy, adding sherry; dish with the gravy over. 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 291 

2. Beef Olives. — ^A pound and a half of rump-steak, 3 yolks of eggs, a 
little beaten mace, pepper and salt, a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. 
of marrow or suet, a sprig of parsley, the rind of ^ a lemon, i pint of 
brown gravy, a table-spoonful of ketchup, i of browning, a tea-spoonful 
of lemon vinegar, a piece of butter rolled in flour, 8 forcemeat-balls. 

Cut the steak into slices of about \ an inch thick and 6 or 7 inches 
long ; rub them over with the yolk of a beaten ^^^ and strew thickly over 
them some bread-crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine^ then the 
parsley minced, the grated rind of ^ a large lemon, a little beaten mace, 
and some pepper and salt, all mixed well together. Roll each olive 
round, fasten it with a small skewer, and brown them lightly before the 
fire in a Dutch oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, 
ketchup, browning, and lemon vinegar ; thicken it with a piece of butter 
rolled in flomr, and serve the olives in the gravy. Garnish with force- 
meat-balls. 

3. Currant and Apple Dumplings, — Of each of the following materials 
take 6 oz. : grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet ; to 
these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon, and citron 
peel mixed, \ a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Boil for two 
hours in a well-buttered mould. 



— o- 



OCTOBER It 

• Moral beauty is ike basis of all true beauty,^— -VICTOR, CousiN. 



I. GOOSB. 

2. Mutton Cutlets. 



3. Baked Apple Dumpling. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Goose. — ^The goose being plucked, drawn, singed, and trussed, 
should be stuffed as follows : — Cut up 4 onions in slices and put them 
in boiling water with 24 sage leaves ; let them boil till the onions are 
done ; strain and chop finely ; return them to the stewpan or saucepan ; 
add I oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and 2 table-spoonfuls of 
bread-crumbs ; let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and the stuffing 
is prepared. Fill the body of the goose, and tie it closely at both ends 
to keep the stuffing in ; hang it down to a brisk fire, and keep it well 
basted. Serve with apple sauce. 

Note. — Goose may be filled with mashed potatoes, flavoured with 
sage and onions or not, according to taste. The stuffing can, if pre- 
ferred, be rendered stronger by using raw onions, or milder by using 
more crumbs, and chopping up an apple with them. Roasted chestnuts, 
peeled and broken, can also be used for goose stuffing. Tomato sauce 
can be substituted for apple. 



292 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Mutton Cutlets, — Cut about a pound and a half of the neck or loin 
of mutton into delicate cutlets, and chop each bone short ; trim them 
neatly, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a little 
thyme and paisley chopped fine ; season with pepper and salt ; fry them 
lightly, and then take diem out to cool, after which take some fresh 
chopped parsley and some bread-crumbs, spread them evenly over the 
cudets with a knife, wrap them in buttered papers, and broil them over 
a clear fire. Serve them up in the papers, with gravy in a tureen. 

3. Baked Apple Dumpling, — ^Peel and slice \ a dozen apples ; scald 
them, and steam ofif the water ; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the 
juice of a lemon and its peel grated ; sweeten to your taste : when cold, 
add the whites of 3 eggs and the yolks of 5 ; put a thin crust in the 
dish, and bake in a slow oven. 



OCTOBER 12. 

' Tliou tremblcst befon atUicipcUed ills^ and still bemoanest xvhcU thou never losettj*^- 

Goethe. 

1. GiBLET Soup. | 3. Peas-Pudding. 

2. Boiled Pork. | 4. Apple and Custard Pancake. 

1. Giblet Soup. — Scald and clean 3 or 4 sets of duck or goose giblets ; 
set them to stew with 2 lbs. of leg of bee^ the bone of a knuckle of 
veal, an ox-tail, a scrag of mutton, or 2 or 3 shanks, with 3 onions, i 
tea-spoonfiil of white pepper, i large spoonfiil of salt, 2 carrots, a large 
bunch of sweet herbs. Put 5 pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards 
(which must be each in 4 pieces) are quite tender ; skim thoroughly. 
When tender, take them out, put them in a hot tureen ; quickly strain 
the soup through a sieve ; mix an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of 
fiour, 2 tea-spoonfuls of mushroom powder, and \ pint of cream. Boil 
it up for a few minutes, and then pour it over the giblets. Instead of 
cream it may be flavoured with 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, a laige 
spoonful of ketchup, and some cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt 
to taste. 

2. Boiled Fork, — Having washed and scraped it, put it into boiling 
water with the skin side uppermost If it be thin, a piece of 4 pounds 
will be done in less than an hour ; a leg of 8 pounds will take three 
hours. Pork should be done enough ; but if boiled too fast or too long, 
it will become jelly. Keep the pot well skimmed, and send it to table 
with peas-pudding and greens. Some persons like carrots^ parsnips, 
and turnips also. 

3. Peas-Pudding, — ^Tie up loosely in a cloth a quart of split peas; 
put them in a saucepan of cold water, and let them boil for two hours 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 293 

and a quarter ; rub them through a coarse sieve into a dish ; stir in an 
oz. of butter, a spoonful of salt, and a few drops of soluble cayenne ; beat 
up the yolks of a couple of eggs, and mix these well with the peas, etc. 
Tie up the pudding in a well-floured cloth as tightly as you can, and 
give it another hour's boiling. 

4. Apple and Custard Pancake, — ^Pare and slice some apples thin ; fry 
them in good butter ; beat 4 eggs with 6 spoonfuls of cream, some rose- 
water, sugar, and nutmeg ; stir them together, and pour over the apples ; 
fry a nice brown, then turn it carefully. Serve with fine sugar sifted 
over. 



OCTOBER la 

• Nature is mi^hiy. Art is mighty. Artifice is wm/t.'— AUGUSTUS Hare. 



1. Soup. 

2. Roast Sucking Fig. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. SouFFLEE Pudding. 



1. Stmp, — Pour 2 quarts of medium or common stock over the bones 
and remains of any cold game (as pheasants, partridges, etc), and 
sliced vegetables, 2 small onions, 2 carrots, i turnip, i head of celery. 
Simmer all for two hours. Skim off all fat, and strain it Have ready 
washed \ lb. of pearl barley, which has been previously boiled in 2 or 3 
waters, put it in the soup, and finish simmering in it ; and when the 
barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks 
of 3 hard-boiled eggs. Rub it through a clean tammy when pounded ; 
add \ pint of cream, salt if required ; put in the barley that was taken 
out first, boil up once, and serve very hot 

2. Roast Sucking Fig, — An oz. and a half of onion finely chopped, 2 
oz. of sage leaves cut small, must be mixed in 5 oz. of finely powdered 
bread-crumbs, the yolk of egg, and a spoonful of salt, and a third of one 
of soluble cayenne pepper ; fill the belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. 
As the extremities will require more fire than the middle, hang a flat- 
iron in the centre of your grate, and be sure to have a fine brisk fire for 
roasting : an hour and a half will be time sufficient. Baste with fresh 
butter, or best Florence oil. The most rigid attention must be paid to 
the pig whilst roasting ; if left for a second, it may be blistered or burnt, 
and very soon spoiled for the table. About ten minutes before the time 
allowed for cooking has elapsed, cut off the head, the body still remain- 
ing before the fire. Split the skull in half, take out the brains, and beat 
them up finely with a dozen sage leaves, previously boiled and chopped 
small ; this can be moistened into sauce with the juices that followed 
the cutting off of the head, if the cook has been prudent enough to place 
a basin under the neck. Split the body down the back ; lay the sides 



294 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

flat upon a dish, with half the head at the top and the other half at the 
bottom. Serve with currant sauce, and a sauce-boatfiil of good gravy. 

4. Soufflte Pudding, — ^Take \ lb. of sifted loaf sugar, \ lb. of floi^r, \ lb. 
of fresh butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, and i table-spoonful of orange-juice ; 
beat ingredients well together until very smooth, then beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the rest. Four into a dish — 
take care not to fill it — ^and bake in a moderate oven. 



1. Stewed Pheasant. 

2. Roast Loin of Veal. 



OCTOBER 14. 

• Too hw they build who build beneath the stars,^ — Y0UN0% 

3. Northumberland PuDDiNa 

4. Vegetables. 

1. Stewed Pheasant — Cut up a pheasant into 14 pieces, i.e, each 
wing into 2 pieces, the back into 3 pieces, the leg and thigh into 2 
pieces, the breast into 2 pieces, and the merry-thought Stew them in 
2 oz. butter, some cayenne and salt, the oyster liquor of 2 dozen oysters 
thickened with a spoonful of arrowroot Just before serving, throw in 
the oysters merely to plump them. 

2. Roast Loin of Veal, — ^Take about 7 lbs. of the kidney end of a loin 
of veal, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small sketirer, run the spit 
through the thick end lengthways, cover the veal with buttered paper, 
and place it before a good fire to roast Just before serving, remove 
the paper, and firoth it up by dredging it with a little flour, and basting 
it with butter. Pour melted butter over it when placed on the dish, and 
serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on a toast 
if preferred, but it is not very usual to do so. 

3. Northumberland Pudding, — Boil i pint of milk, then stir in it a 
little salt, and as much flour gradually stirred in as will make it like 
hasty pudding ; boil three minutes, and pour into a basin ; when cool, 
add 4 well-beaten eggs ; mix and boil in a clean cloth an hour. Serve 
with melted butter and currant jelly. 



OCTOBER 18. 
' We learn to treasure what is above this earth : we long for revelation I ' — GOSTHI. 



1. Hashed Wild Duck. 

2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal. 



3. Raisin Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Hashed Wild Duek, — ^Two glasses of port wine, i table-spoonful 
ot mushroom ketchup, x of Harvey sauce, a little flour, pepper, salt^ 
and cayenne to taste, a little weak stock, or water. 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 295 

Divide the wild duck into pieces, and dredge them well with flour ; 
put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
and the same of Harvey sauce ; add 2 glasses of port wine, and a very 
little water or weak stock. Season to your taste with pepper, salt, 
and cayenne; and let it simmer for about an hour, taking care it 
does not boil. Arrange the pieces of duck on toast; boil and skim 
the sauce, and when as thick as cream, pour it over the whole, and 
serve very hot 

2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal, — ^Take part of a loin of veal — the chump 
end will do ; put into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or into a 
stewpan, about a couple of oz. of butter, and shake it over a moderate 
fire until it begins to brown ; flour the veal well all over, lay it into the 
saucepan, and when it is of a fine, equal, light brown, pour gradually in 
veal broth, gravy, or boiling water to nearly half its depth ; add a little 
salty I or 2 sliced carrots, a small onion or more ; when the flavour is 
much liked, add a bunch of parsley. Stew the veal very softly for an 
hooTy or rather more, then turn it, and let it stew for nearly or quite 
another hour, or longer, should it not appear perfectly done. Dish the 
joint ; skim all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat, or 
keep the joint hot while it is rapidly reduced to a richer consistency. 
This is merely a plain family stew. 

3. Raisin Pudding, — One lb. of raisins, i lb. of currants, a :^ of a lb. 
of sultanas, i lb. of suet, f of a lb. of bread-crumbs, i pint of milk, 10 
eggs, f of a lb. of citron and orange peel mixed, i small nutmeg, i glass 
of brandy. 

Stone the raisins and divide them ; wash and dry the curmnts and 
sultanas, and cut the peel into slices. Mix all these with the bread- 
crumbs, flour, and suet chopped very fine ; add the grated nutmeg, and 
then stir in the eggs well beaten, the brandy, and the milk. When the 
ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured 
doth over it, and boil it. When done, turn it out, and serve it with 
burning brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. 

OCTOBER 16. 

' Assertion^ unsupported byfact^ is nugatory. Surmise and general abuse, in however 
elegant language, ought not to pass for proofs,^ — Junius. 



1. Soles Fricasseed. 

2. Boiled Turkey. 



3. Greengage Fritters. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Soles Fricasseed, — Fry 3 soles of a nice brown, and drain them well 
from fat. Take all the meat from the smallest fish ; chop it fine, and 



296 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

mix with it lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning. Work together 
with the yolk of an egg and the butter. Make this into small balls, and 
fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour ; add the 
port wine, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Lay in the 2 soles and balls ; let 
them simmer gently five minutes. Serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon. 

2. Boiled Turkey, — Cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle 
finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the 
apron of the bird 

Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the 
leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The 
liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end 
of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack-thread over the ends of the 
legs to keep them in their places. Having trussed the turkey for 
boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to 
more than cover it Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove 
the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it 
simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a 
large size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery sauce^ 
oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter ; put a small quantity of either 
over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. 

3. Greengage Fritters, — ^Two pints of new milk, 10 oz. of arrowroot^ 
a httle vanilla, yolks of 8 eggs, sugar to taste, bread-crumbs, greengage 
or apricot jam. 

Put the milk in a good-sized stewpan over the fire until it boils ; have 
the arrowroot ready mixed, and stir it into the milk as quickly as possible; 
add the vanilla and yolks of eggs, the sugar last Stir it for about twenty 
minutes over a quick fire ; then put it into a deep cutlet-pan, and bake 
it about ten minutes in a quick oven. Wlien it is quite cold cut out 
the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread-crumb them ; glaze 
and send them up quite hot, with greengage or apricot sauce in the 
dish. 



— a — 

OCTOBER 17. 

* Associate with nun of good judgment,^ — FULLER. 

1. Oyster Patties. I 3. Apple Fritters. 

2. Jugged Hare. I 4. Vegetables. 

1. Oyster Patties, — Light puff paste, 2 dozen large oysters, i oz. of 
butter rolled in flour, \ a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon-peel, 
a little cayenne pepper, salt, x tea-spoonfiil of lemon-juice. 

2. Jugged Hare. — Divide an undressed hare into joints ; let them be 
larded with bacon. Mix well, upon the dish on which you have made 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 297 

the dissection, a spoonful of salt and \ a one of soluble cayenne and 
pounded mace, a few leaves of mixed sweet herbs ; add to these 4 silver 
onions, \ sl dozen cloves, a gill of port wine, ^ a pint of spring water^ 
and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. Put all into a jug with a close- 
fitting top, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. 
Lay the meat on a dish before the fire, strain the liquor, boil it up, and 
pour it over the hare just before sending it to table. 

3. j4^//g Fritters. — Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the 
whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a litde grated nutmeg, 
a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then 
add gradually sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Pare and core 6 
large apples, cut them in slices about a :^ of an inch thick, fiy them in 
the batter till nicely brown, then strew some white sugar over them, and 

serve them hot. 

— — 

OCTOBER 18. 

Anxiety is the poison of human life. Ji is the parent of many sins, and of 

more miseries.^ — ^Blair. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Roast Hare. 



3. Veal and Ham Pie. 

4. Vegetables. 



X. Fried Soles. — Scrape, but do not skin them ; wash them and wipe 
them dry; dip them in beaten egg, and then strew them over with 
bread-crumbs. Have a pan of fat, and be sure it boils before you put in 
the soles. Fry them of a light brown, and turn them but once. Lay 
them on a napkin for the fat to drain off, and serve them on a fish-plate, 
with plain melted butter in a boat. 

2. Roast Hare. — ^A hare may be rendered much easier to carve, and 
far more plump in appearance, by taking out the bones of the back and 
thighs, or of the former only. In removing this, a very sharp knife should 
be used, and much care will be required to avoid cutting tlirough the skin 
just over the spine, as it adheres closely to the bone. Nearly double the 
usual quantity of forcemeat must be prepared; with this restore the legs to 
their original shape, and fill the body, which should be previously lined 
with delicate slices of the nicest bacon, of which the rind and edges 
have been trimmed away. Sew up the hare ; truss it as usual ; lard it 
or not, as is most convenient ; keep it well basted with butter while 
roasting (it takes from one hour and a quarter to one and three-quarters), 
and serve with the ordinary sauce. When the taste is in favour of a 
sweet sauce, melt 2 table-spoonfuls of fine red currant jelly in ^ a pint 
of rich brown gravy. 

To remove the backbone, clear from it first the flesh in the inside ; 
lay this back to the right and left, from the centre of the bones to the 



298 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

tips; then work the knife on the upper side quite to the spine, and 
when all but the skin which adheres to this is detached, separate the 
bone at the first joint fi:om the neckbone or ribs, and pass the knife 
with caution under the skin down the middle of the back. 

3. Veal and Ham Pie. — ^Take the meat off an undressed breast of 
veal, by cutting it in pieces about an inch and a half long and an inch 
broad Put the bones into a saucepan, with plenty of water, and a 
bundle of sweet herbs ; extract about half a pint of strong gravy ; strain 
this through a sieve. Line a pie-dish with thin paste ; envelope every 
piece of veal in a thin slice of dressed ham, not too fat ; have ready half 
a dozen hard boiled eggs, distributing the yolks of these amongst your 
meat Season the gravy extracted from the bones with pepper and 
salt, and pour it over the meat till the dish be completely filled, then 
cover with top crust. This pie will require more time in baking than 
those of beefsteak, mutton, or fruit 

OCTOBER 10. 

• / knew that we often trenihle at an empty terror : yet the false fancy brings 

a real misery, ' — SCHILLER. 

1. Pheasant. I 3. Masked Turnips. 

2. Boiled Neck of Mutton. I 4. Nelson Pudding. 

I. Pheasant — Let the bird be carefully picked and drawn; after 
hanging some two or three days, take out the craw by cutting a slit in 
the back of the neck ; leave the head on, and truss as you would a fowl 
for roasting, with this difference, that you do not cut ofif the feet, but 
merely divest them of the claws. From half an hour to three-quarters' 
roasting will be sufficient, the time depending upon the size. Baste with 
fresh butter ; send it to table properly browned, with some rich gravy 
sauce, in which a tea-spoonful of ham extract has been mixed. 

3. Mashed Turnips. — The flavour of this justly favourite dish may 
be very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered 
loaf sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed 
from the water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the 
turnips should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table; 
add a small bit of butter, or half a tea-cupful of cream. 

4. Nelson Pudding, — Butter a pudding dish, then cut some slices of 
thin bread and butter; line the dish with them, keeping the buttered side 
next it ; strew a layer of shred suet, mixed with a little flour, over the 
bread at the bottom of the dish ; over that, a layer of captain's biscuits 
pounded, then a layer of sliced apples ; strew over the apples a little 
mixed spice and sugar. Continue to put a layer of suet, biscuit, and 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER, 299 

apples alternately, until the dish is full. Beat up 4 eggs; 2 of the 
whites may be left out Poiu: to the eggs, stirring the while, i quart of 
boiling milk. Pour this over the pudding, reserving a little, into which 
dip a sufficient number of slices of bread and butter to cover the top, 
keeping the buttered side up. 

OCTOBER 2 0. 

* Anger manages everything badly. ' — Stadius. 



1. Carrot Soup. 

2. Hashed Mutton. 



3. Celts Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Carrot Soup, — Make this soup the day before it is to be used. 
Put some beef-bones, with 4 quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg 
of mutton has been boiled, with 2 large onions, i turnip, into a sauce- 
pan to simmer or stew for three hours; pepper and salt to taste. 
Scrape 6 large canots, cut them thin, strain the soup on them, and stew 
till they will pulp through a coarse cloth or hair sieve ; then boil the 
pulp with the soup till of the consistency of good cream. Do not pulp 
the yellow, but only the red part of the cairot ; add cayenne. Use 2 
wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. 

2. Hashed Mutton. — Put a wine-glassful of vinegar into a stewpan, 2 
cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay leaf; reduce to half, take out the 
spice and bay leaf; add \ a pint of water or broth ; cut the mutton to 
be bashed in thin, small slices, and season well with pepper and salt ; 
shake a good spoonful of flour over, mix all together and put into the 
stewpan ; let simmer gently ten minutes. Serve with slices of gherkin 
as garnish, adding a little mustard to the gravy, or, what is better, some 
piccalilly. 

3. Celts Pudding, — Melt \ a lb. of butter in a basin set in a pan of 
hot water ; mix with it gradually the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs 
well beaten ; add fine sugar, grated lemon-peel, and mace to taste ; bake 
in a shallow dish. 



OCTOiBER 21. 

• The guardian angel of life sometimes flies so hi^h that we cannot see it; but he is ahoays 
looking down upon us, and will soon hover nearer to us,* — RiCHTER. 



1. Plaice. 

2. A LA MODE Beef. 

3. Roast Larks. 



4. Anna's Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Plaice, — For a large — especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with 
salt, and keep twenty-four hours ; then wash and wipe it dry ; wet over 
with egg, and cover over with bread-crumbs ; make some lard or fine 



300 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

dripping, and 2 large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot Lay the fish 
in, and fiy it a fine colour ; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried 
parsley round, and anchovy sauce. You may dip the fish in the vinegar, 
and not put it in the pan. 

2. A Id mode Beef, — Take apiece of clod or sticking of beef and cut 
it in small pieces ; then put a lump of dripping into your pot, with a 
good-sized onion cut thin ; when quite hot, roll the pieces of beef in 
flomr and lay them in, stirring it well about ; when nicely browned all 
over, add boiling water, in the proportion of a quart to every lb. of meat ; 
this must be added by degrees, and the whole kept stirring well together 
all the time ; then put in a few allspice, 2 bay leaves, some black pepper, 
and a little salt ; cover it up close, and set it by the side of the fire, so 
that it may stew very gently till the meat becomes quite tender, which 
it will in about three hours, when it will be ready to serve up. 

3. Roast Larks. — Two dozen larks, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a sprig 
of parsley, egg, bread-crumbs, and melted butter. 

Pick and clean 2 dozen birds, and cut off the heads and legs ; pick out 
the gizzards, and put a seasoning inside them of pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and a Wy litde chopped parsley] brush them over with the yolks of 
some well-beaten eggs, dip them into bread-crumbs, covering them 
very thickly; run a small bird-spit through them, and fasten it on a 
larger one, and put them to roast before a bright fire, basting them con- 
stantly with butter, or they will bum. When done, arrange them in a 
circle round a dish, and fill the centre with a pile of crumbs of bread, 
fried crisp and brown in a little butter. Serve them with melted butter, 
with the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it 

4. Annans Pudding, — A \ lb. of suet, \ lb. of bread-crumbs, i table- 
spoonful of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs, peel of a lemon. 

Chop the suet very fine, and add to it the stale bread-crumbs, the 
ground rice, and the peel of the lemon grated. Mix it well together 
with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Butter a basin, and place the 
ingredients in it ; steam it When served, pour over it a little melted 
butter and sugar, with half a glass of white wine, or serve the sauce in 
a tureen. 



OCTOBER 22. 

• We are never like angels Hll our passion dies J' — THOMAS Decker. 



1. Roast Goose. 

2. Oxtails Stewed. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Apple Charlotte. 



I. Roast Goose. — ^Prepare a goose as for roasting ; pour over it a 
quart of boiling milk, and let it lie all night in it Take it out and 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 301 



dry it well ; boil tlie liver, chop and mix it with the stuffing, which 
make of sage and onion and a few bread-crumbs, pepper and salt Sew 
the goose up dose, and hang it up for a day ; after which, boil slowly 
for an hour in a closely-covered pot, and serve smothered in onion 
sauce. It is an excellent dish^ and prepared with much less cost than 
roasting. 

2. Oxtails Stewed, — ^Three tails, half a tea-spoonfiil of pepper, a little 
cayenne, 8 or 10 cloves, 2 small onions, 2 large carrots, a large bunch 
of parsley, a little butter and flour; salt to taste. 

4. Afple Charlotte, — Peel, core, and cut up 12 good apples; put in 
a stewpan, with two-thirds their weight of sugar, the grated rind and 
strained juice of i lemon, and sixth part of a nutmeg grated ; boil and 
stir till in a marmalade, then add 2 oz. of fresh butter ; cut 4 slices of 
bread the sixth of an inch thick ; cut them into two-inch squares, and 
then across into triangles ; put them on a dish, and pour over 4 oz. of 
dissolved fresh butter. When well saturated and cold, butter a plain 
mould, stick in the bread so that the points meet in the centre, fit 
one piece in the other round the sides, press in the apple, cover with 
a di^ and bake in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 
Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 



OCTOBER 23. 

* Th£ mind ought sometimes to he amused^ that it may better return to thought and to 

itself, * — Phaedrus. 



1. Game Soup. 

2. Roast Partridges. 

3. Stewed Sweetbreads. 



4. Egg Fritters. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. Game Soup, — Cut a knuckle of ham into thin slices, and put over 
the bottom of a stewpan ; on this put a knuckle of veal cut small, or 
an old rabbit, and 2 or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, with any remnants of 
game or poultry which may be left On the top place 3 or 4 partridges 
whole ; moisten with a little water, or the liquor in which a joint has 
been boiled ; sweat this over a slow fire until reduced to a glaze, then 
fill up with more liquor, and skim carefully. Add 3 or 4 leeks, a 
carrot, 2 or 3 turnips, a head of celery, and 2 or 3 onions, with a bunch 
of sweet herbs, thyme, marjoram, basil and parsley, and spice, and boil 
till the game is tender. Take ofif the fillets, and put them into a clean 
stewpan ; strain the broth, and put with them. The carrot, leeks, and 
celery may be cut into dice and added to the rest ; let it boil by the 
side of the stove, and skim ofif all the grease. Season with cayenne 



302 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

and salt Put the fillets into a tureen, pour the broth over, and add 
some slices of fried bread cut in dice. 

2. Roast Fartri(fges. — The partridge, being prepared for roasting, 
should have a piece of butter rolled in salt and pepper put in its 
inside. Roast before a brisk fire for about half an hour, and keep well 
basted with butter ; froth up just before serving, and dish with a little 
gravy over ; send up bread sauce and gravy in tureens. 

Note. — ^Partridges can be stuffed with mushrooms ; thus cooked, they 
are very delicious eating. Sufficient for a brace is thus prepared : Half 
or three-quarters of a pint of buttons or mushroom flaps ; dissolve i^ oz. 
of butter over a slow fire ; put in the mushrooms, slightly sprinkled with 
salt and cayenne. Stew for a quarter of an hour, tiHn them out to cool ; 
when quite cold, use them as stuffing for the birds, which sew up 
securely to keep the filling in. Roast and serve as usual. 

3. Stewed Sweetbreads. — One or 2 sweetbreads, x pint of veal broth, 
some marjoram, mace, pepper, salt, flour, yolks of 2 eggs. 

Soak the sweetbreads in warm water, and then put them into a stew- 
pan with the veal broth, pepper, salt, and mace, with a litde marjoram, 
and let them stew for rather more than half an hour. When done, 
place them on a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with a little floiu: and the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. 

4. Egg Fritters, — ^Take some well-drained poached eggs, brush them 
over with well-beaten yolk of egg ; strew over some good cheese grated, 
then bread-crumbs ; fry a moment in very hot clarified butter. Serve 
with fried or crisped parsley. 



OCTOBER 24. 

* Act wdl at tJu moment^ and you have performed a good aetion to aH eternity^ 

— Lavateil 



1. Boiled Eels. 

2. Meat and Potato Pudding. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. College Puddings. 



1. Boiled Eels, — Boiled eels are done in a small quantity of water, 
with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them ami 
the liquor. The small ones are best for boiling. Serve with chopped 
parsley and butter. 

2. Meat and Potato Pudding. — Boil 4 lbs. of potatoes, and dry thein 
well over the fire ; beat and roll them fine. When cold, beat them up 
with 2 eggs and a quart of milk into a smooth batter; now lay some 
steaks, seasoned with pepper and salt, in a deep dish, and pour on about 
half the batter; then some more steaks, then the rest of the batter. 
Bake it gradually, and of a fine brown. 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 303 

4. College Puddings. — ^A \ lb. of bread-crumbs, \ lb. of Naples bis- 
cuits, \ lb. of beef suet, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon peel, \ lb. of 
currants, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, yolks of 4 eggs. 

Mix the bread-crumbs, Naples biscuits pounded, beef suet chopped 
very fine, the candied orange-peel cut into shreds, the sugar pounded, 
and the currants washed and dried. Mix the above with the yolks of 
4 beaten eggs till all becomes a paste ; then cut them in pieces of a flat 
shape ; firy them in lard over a gentle fire till brown^ and put them on a 
napkin. Sauce in a tureen. 



OCTOBER 28. 

'• TTujcompany in which you will improve most will be least expensive toyou,^ — 

General Washington. 



1. Scalloped Oysters. 

2. Pie of Larks. 

3. Stewed Steak. 



4. Vegetables. 

5. CiNTRA Fritters. 



1. Scalloped Oysters, — The true method of making this savoury winter 
dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- 
powdered crumbs of white bread ; on this place as many bearded oysters 
as the shape will hold ; over these strew a little salt and soluble cayenne, 
and 2 or 3 morsels of butter ; then make a second layer of crumbs, and 
proceed as before directed till the shape be filled, then pour the liquor 
of the oysters over ; put them into the oven for half an hour, and just 
before serving to table brown the top with a hot salamander. 

2. Pie of Larks, — ^A dozen small birds, a rump-steak, a small bunch 
of savoury herbs, the peel of ^ a lemon, a slice of stale. bread, \ a 
cupful of milk, 6 eggs, pepper and salt, 2 oz. of butter, puff paste. 

Make a forcemeat with the slice of bread soaked in milk, and beaten 
up, a small bunch of savoury herbs chopped fine, and the peel of ^ a 
lemon minced, a seasoning of pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and 
the yolks of 6 eggs ; mix all together ; put it into a stewpan, and stir it 
over the fire for a few minutes imtil it becomes very stiff, then fill the 
inside of each bird. Line a pie-dish with the rump-steak, seasoned with 
pepper and salt and fried lightly ; place the birds on it, cover them with 
the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and pour in a sufficient 
quantity of gravy. Put a paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it 
over with the same ; glaze it with the yolk of an egg brushed over it, 
make a hole in the top, and bake it 

3. Stewed Steak. — ^Take some slices of beef, pepper and salt them 
well, slice up a couple of onions thin, and lay a piece or two of the fat of 
the steak at the bottom of a clean saucepan, then some of the onion, 
and on that some more steak, and so on alternately till you have put all 



_ J 



304 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

in ; shake and turn it about frequently to keep it from burning, it will 
presently be nice and brown ; let it stew in its own gravy till the meat 
becomes tender, then take off all the fat from the top, mix some flour 
in two table-spoonfuls of water, with a little ketchup or pickled walnut 
liquor, and pour it gradually into the stew ; stir it about well, and just 
give it a boil up ; serve it quite hot. 

S. Cintra Fritters, — Cut up some spongecake, or any other kind of 
cake, into slices \ of an inch thick, stamp them into roimd or oblong 
shapes, soak them for a few minutes in a mixture of wine and cream 
sweetened and flavoured with a few drops of ratafia, dredge them with 
flour on both sides, and fry them in lard, of a light brown colour. Pour 
some melted raspberry jelly round them, and serve very hot 

— — 

OCTOBER 26. 

* Costly company are not to he liked; Ust, whilst you make your hair lon^^ you make 

your wings shorter,^ — ^LoRD BaCON. 



1. Venison Pasty. 

2. Partridge Pie. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Queen Mab's Pudding. 



X. Venison Pasty, — ^Take either of the above parts of venison, 
remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put 
them into a stewpan with 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. 
Add a ^ of a pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth or stock to 
cover it ; put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew till three-parts done. 
Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them 
into a deep dish, in a cold place, with a litde of the gravy poured over 
them. Pour the remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc, and boil 
it for a quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust, 
ornament the top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. 
'When done, have ready the gravy left firom the bones, strain and skim 
it clean, add a glass of port wine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece 
of butter rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. 

For the gravy. — ^A glass of port wine, juice of a small lemon, a piece 
of butter and flour, some stock firom the stewed venison. 

2. Partridge Pie. — Prepare 4 partridges for dressing ; do not truss 
them, but remove the heads and necks, as well as the legs from the 
knee-joints. Put in a pie-dish i lb. of veal cutlet and a rasher of un- 
dressed ham, or some very nice bacon ; then place the partridges' breasts 
to the centre in form, and prepare the following seasoning thus : — Take 
of chopped thyme and parsley mixed i tea-spoonful, and of chopped 
mushrooms x dessert-spoonful ; mix and season with salt, pepper, and 
cayenne ; scatter this between the birds, and fill up the dish wiUi strong 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 305 

veal broth, allowing room for cooking ; edge the dish with pufif paste, 
and cover with the same ; bake for one hour ; when nearly done, take it 
from the oven, wash over lighdy with egg, and return to finish. Serve 
hot, with gravy in tureen. 

4. Queen MaVs Pudding. — Blanch and bruise about 6 bitter almonds, 
cut the peel of a lemon very thin, and put both into a clean stewpan 
with a pint of milk ; stir it at the side of the fire until it is at the point 
of boiling, and the flavour of the lemon and almonds is well drawn out 
Then add an oz. of isinglass, and a very little salt When the isinglass 
is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin into another stewpan, and 
add the sugar broken and the cream; just allow it to boil, then stir 
quickly in the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and stir it constantly and 
carefully, to prevent its curdling, imtil it becomes of the thickness of a 
good custard ; then pour it out, and again stir it until nearly cold ; then 
mix with it the dried cherries, and the citron cut into shreds. Rub a 
drop of oil over a mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cold place, 
or on ice, for some time before it is turned out 



OCTOBER 27. 

• What need to forestall the date of grief ^ and run to tneit what we would most avoid ? ' 

— Milton. 



1. Savoury Omelet. 

2. Bubble and Squeak. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Bread and Butter Pudding. 



1. Savoury Omelet, — Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best 
ingredients for this excellent dish. Whichever you select must be 
chopped very fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham ; add i 
shalot, a little parsley^ and pepper and salt Mix the yolks of 3 eggs 
and 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites 
of egg separately; see that the frying-pan be quite hot, and the lard 
boiling, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together : as 
soon as you begin to fry, r.dd the whites, and mix them well with the 
other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient. 
Brown with a salamander before you send it to table. 

2. Bubble and Squeak, — Cut cold boiled beef in slices about } of an 
inch thick. Fry them till heated through, and of a light brown ; keep 
them hot before the fire. Have ready chopped some cold boiled 
cabbage ; fry this in the pan, stirring it well about, and season it with 
pepper and a very little salt Put the cabbage into a dish, and lay the 
meat around it 

4. Bread and Butter Pudding, — Put into a deep dish that will hold a 

quart very thin slices of bread and butter, only half filling it Stir into 

u 



3o6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

\\ pints of cold milk 8 tea-spoonfuls of white pounded sugar, a laurel 
leafy and 3 eggs well beaten. When all are well mixed, pour it into the 
dish over the bread and butter, and bake it in a quick oven. 



OCTOBER 2a 

* Oft expectation fcttlsy and most oft there where most it promises.^ — SrAKSPEAUL 



1. Roast Guinea Fowl. 

2. Boiled Knuckle of Veau 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Carrot Pudding. 



1. Roast Guinea Fowl — ^When the guinea fowl is properly prepared, 
lard the breast with shreds of bacon, and truss it the same as a pheasant 
Put it down to a clear, brisk fire to roast, keeping it well basted, and 
about ten minutes before it is done dredge it with flour to make it froth 
nicely. Serve it with a little gravy poured roimd it ; send up some also 
in a tureen, and the same of bread sauce. If the guinea fowl is not 
larded, but plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. 

A guinea fowl may be roasted plain, as a pheasant. It will then take 
one hour to roast at a good fire. Baste it well with butter. 

2. BoiUd Knuckle of Veal, — Break, or rather saw, the knuckle into 
pieces ; wash, and put it into plenty of water, with a little salt ; let it 
boil gently for two or three hours, according to the size ; it requires to 
be well boiled, in order to soften the sinews, which, when sufficiendy 
done, are most delicious ; you must keep it well skimmed, as the liquor 
is excellent for broth or soup. It is eaten with boiled ham, bacon, or 
pickled pork. When dished, pour over it some good paisley and 
butter. 

4. Carrot Pudding, — ^Boil some carrots till they will pulp through a 
sieve ; take \ lb. of the pulp, J lb. of potato boiled and mashed very fine, 
with a little salt, \ lb. of flour, \ lb. of moist sugar, \ lb. of butter 
melted, 2 oz. of candied orange, and f lb. of currants ; mix all well 
together overnight, and boil it full four hours. When the pudding is 
taken out of the pan, let it remain in the cloth about three minutes 
before serving. 




BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 307 



OCTOBER 29. 

^Beware, so long as you live, of judging men by their otUward appearance,^ — 

La Fontaine. 

1. Soup A LA Cantatrice. I 3. Vegetables. 

2. Brown Fricassee of Rabbits. I 4. Amber Pudding. 

1. Soup d la Cantatrice, — Excellent soup for the voice. 3 oz. of 
sago, half a pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, i lump of sugar, and 
seasoning to taste; i bay leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock. 
Cut up into pieces about three inches square 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 
4 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. of each, and \ lb. of lean bacon or 
ham. Rub 2 oz. butter on the bottom of the stewpan, put in half a 
pint of water, the meat, etc., and any bones, trimmings of poultry, or 
fresh meat, 2 large onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, 3 carrots, 
I head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 oz. salt, half a tea-spoonful of 
whole pepper, i large blade of mace, i bunch of savoury herbs. Cover 
the stewpan and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its 
contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale 
jelly-like substance, add four quarts of cold water, and sinuner very 
gently for five hours : do not let it boil quickly ; remove every particle 
of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. This 
stock is the basis of most soups, and will be found strong enough for 
ordinary purposes. (Average cost, 9d. per quart) Mode, — Having 
washed the sago in boiling water, let it be gradually added in the nearly 
boiling stock ; simmer for half an hour, when it should be well dis- 
solved ; beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream, 
stir them quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not let the 
soup boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time, about forty minutes. 

This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which (sago and eggs) 
have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat, and 
of great advantage to the voice in singing. 

2. Brown Fricassee of Rabbits, — Cut a couple of rabbits into joints, 
fry these in a little fresh butter till they become a light brown colour. 
Put the meat into a stewpan, with a pint of spring water, two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon -juice, mushroom ketchup, and Reading sauce, a 
couple of burnt onions, a little soluble cayenne and salt Stew over a 
slow fire till perfectly done ; then take out the meat, strain the gravy, 
and thicken it with a little flour if necessary ; make it quite hot, and 
pour it over the rabbits. 

4. Amber Pudding, — ^Three eggs ; their weight in sugar, butter, and 
flour ; juice of one or two lemons, peel of one grated. Work the butter 
with yoiu: hand till like cream ; then add the flour, sugar, and beaten 



3o8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

eggs by degrees ; then the juice of one or two lemons, with the peel 
grated. Butter a mould thickly, and when the ingredients are well 
mixed pour it in, taking care that the mould is quite full. Butter a 
piece of white paper, cover it over the top, tie it well over with a cloth, 
and put it into a saucepan of fast boiling water. 



-o- 



OCTOBER 30. 



• Moderate your anger^ govern well your household affairs, and wriieyour letters 
without useless r(^///w/w/— FERDINAND, King of Spain. 



1. Oyster Soup. 

2. A Neck of Mutton. 



3. Pigeon Pie, 

4. Turnips, etc 



1. Oyster Soup, — ^Take a sufficient quantity of oysters, according to 
their size ; about a dozen fine natives is sufficient for a pint of soup. 
Open the oysters, save all the liquor which comes from them, and 
strain it Beard the oysters, put the beards and a little consommi 
together into a small saucepan over the fire, to boil for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. In the meantime pound the oysters to a pulp 
with a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread, and two or three yolks of 
eggs boiled hard, to three dozen natives, more or less according to the 
quantity. Strain the liquor from the beards into a stewpan ; add the 
rest of the stock, the liquor of the oysters free from sediment, and the 
pulp of the oysters ; stew all together very gently for half an hour, and 
rub through a tammy. Keep it hot, without allowing it to boil Season 
it with cayenne or white pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and also salt, if 
required ; some cream may also be added. Serve with fried bread cut 
in dice in the tureen. 

2. A Neck of Mutton may be served with various ragouts of vegetables, 
such as spinach, sorrel, endive, cucumbers, cauliflowers, green or white 
haricot beans, potatoes, or mashed turnips. 

3. Pigeon Fie. — Two or three pigeons, a rump-steak, pepper and salt, 
a little gravy, two ounces of butter, puff paste. Lay a rim of paste 
round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt 
over the f)Ottom, and put in a thin beefsteak; pick and draw the 
pigeons, wash them clean, cut off the feet, and press the legs into the 
sides ; put a bit of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt in the 
inside of each, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and 
the necks and gizzards between them ; sprinkle some pepper and salt 
over them, and put in a wine-glass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste 
over the top, and with a brush wet it all over ; then put a puff paste 
half an indi thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with 
egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it, and bake it 



BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER, 309 

"WTien done, pour in a little good gravy. You may put in the yolks of 
six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beefsteak if you think proper. 

4. Turnips^ etc, — ^Pare and wash the turnips, boil them well in plenty 
of water, then wring them very dry in a delicately clean doth ; beat 
them up with pepper, salt, and butter to taste ; add a little milk to give 
whiteness, and serve very hot A little sugar, if the turnips are old, is 
an improvement 



OCTOBER 81. 

* Might I give counsel to any young friend^ I would say unto her: " Try to frequent 
the company of your betters ; learn to admire rightly. The great pleasure of life is in 
thaty narrow spirits admire basely and worship meanly; broad spirits worship the 
right, " ' — ^Thackeray. 



1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. 

2. Roast Pork. 



3. Vegetables. 

4. Apple Dumplings. 



2. Roast Fork, — ^Pork should at all times be perfectly well done, and 
therefore requires a longer time to roast than any other meat Pork is 
much more savoury when stuffed with chopped sage, and onions, and 
bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt The outer rind should 
be neatly scored to enable the carver to cut slices more easily. Before 
setting it down to roast, rub the skin with salad oil to prevent its 
blistering, and baste it frequently. Serve it with apple sauce in a 
tureen or boat The onions should be boiled a little before being 
chopped for the stuffing. 

3. V^etablcs. — Let them remain for a full hour before dressing in 
cold water; be sure to dress them in a capacious saucepan full of 
boiling water, into which three table-spoonfuls of salt has been thrown ; 
give them twenty minutes on the fire ; drain off the water through a 
colander ; put the vegetables on a sieve, bottom upwards, and gently 
press them with a hot plate. 

4. Apple Dumplings, — Select the large russet-coat fruit, pare and cut 
them in halves, take out the cores, and fill the cavities with quince 
marmalade and a couple of cloves to each. Surround the apples with 
paste equally distributed ; tie up in cloths ; boil for fifty minutes or an 
hour, if your dumplings are large. Have melted butter and powdered 
sugar ready to serve with them. 




3IO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF OCTOBER. 



Flowers in the centre. 



1. Preserved Golden Pippins. 

2. Compote of Siberian Crabs. 

3. Meringues Ordinaires. 

4. Quince Paste. 



5. Biscuits aux Avelunes. 

6. POMMES A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Walnuts, Grapes, Filberts, 
Apples, Pears. 



1. PRESERVED GOLDEN PIPPINS. 

Pare, core, quarter, and boil to a pulp with water a qu^irt of golden 
pippins; pass them through a jelly bag. Boil the rind of a Seville 
orange in plenty of water until it is quite soft, slice it, and add it to 
your apple pulp. Peel and core 12 choice pippins. Boil down 2 lbs. 
of loaf sugar with a little water, skim it, and put in your pippins ; boil 
pretty fast until the sugar is almost a candy, then add the jelly and 
orange-ped ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Simmer all till the syrup 
looks clear, and put it into a mould or into pots to keep. 

2. COMPOTE OF SIBERIAN CRABS. 

Strip your fruit from the stalks, weigh it, and for i lb. of crabs boil 
together a tea-cupful each of juice of a lemon, and bake them until 
they form a pulp ; add to them their weight of loaf sugar, place them in 
a preserving-pan, and do them over a clear ^e until they are ex- 
ceedingly thick. Make them into lozenges, or diy them slowly in 
small moulds. Sift sugar over them to keep. 



3. MERINGUES ORDINAIRES. 

Beat the whites of 8 eggs until they are a very stifi froth, then mix 
with them 8 oz. of pounded and sifted white sugar. When quite a 
smooth paste, place spoonfuls of it upon sheets of paper rubbed with a 
little oil or butter ; put them quickly into the oven ; and directly they 
are sufficiently set, retire them and press the back of a spoon upon the 
under side of each, so as to make them hollow in the middle ; replace 
them in the oven, and when they are perfectly firm take them out 
Let them grow cold, and fill them with marmalade fruit jelly or whipped 
cream ; fasten two together by moistening the edges with white of egg ; 
rub the outsides also with the t,%g^^ roll them in sifted loaf sugar, and 
let them dry in an airy place. 



DESSEXTFOS OCTOBER. 



4. QUINCE PASTE. 



Put yoai quinces whole iDto water, and simmer them slowly until 
they are tender; pare, core, mash, and pass them through a sieve. 
Place the pulp in a preserving-pan over the fire, and add to it an equal 
weight of fine loaf sugar; boQ it until it is thickened, and spread it 
upon sugared plates or papers. Dry it slowly in a slack oven, and 
keep for use between paper. 

5. BISCUITS AUX AVELLINES. 

Blanch half a pound of filberts and i oz. of bitter almonds ; pound 
them in a mortar, using a little white of egg with them to prevent them 
from oiling. Beat the yolks of 3 i^^ half a pound of sifted loaf 
sugar, and the rasped rind of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs 
to 3 snow, add to them the yolks, etc, and very gradually sift in i oz. 
of dried flour. Put the mixture into paper cases, and bake until they 
are of a nice colour. The slower the oven is, the Ughter and better 
these will be. 

6. FOUMES A L'ALLEHANDE. 

Pare and core 1 lb. of pippins ; put with them 6 oz. of powdered 
sugar, a good glass of Rhine wine (white), and the strained juice of two 
good sweet oranges. Simmer this by the side of the fire until it is 
pretty thick, then mix it with 4 oz. of apricot or pine-apple jam, and 
4 oz. of blanched sweet almonds, cut in half or pounded to a paste, as 
preferred. Give it a boil up, put it into a greased mould, and when 
quite set turn it into a dessert-dish, and garnish it with candied orange 
chips. 



NOVEMBER 1. 

' The more ymi deny yourstlf, the more you skidl obtain Jrom C«/.'— HORACt. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 
Meat: Doe Venison— Mullon— Veal— Beef. 
Poultry ; Fowls— Pullets — Larks- Geese— Chickens— Pigeons— Teal— Turkey— 

wad Duck— Widgeons. 
Game i Woodcocks— Hares— Pheflsants— Snipes— Partridges— Rabbits. 
Fish: Brill — Gudgeons- Oyslets—Whitings-Carp— Crab— Cod— Eels— Pike— 

Turbol— Tench— SoJes— Haddock. 
VEGETABLES! Carrots — Beetroot- Onions— lale Cucumbers — Cabbages — Cdeiy — 

Lei tuces — Sprouts — Potatoes — Spinach— Salad ing — Herbs. 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 
Pears— Chestnuts — Filberts— G rapes— BuUaces — Walnuts — Apples. 



I, Tongue Soup. — Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs, of shin of beef, 
some beef bones, and any cold pieces of meat, 3 carrots, z turnips, 2 
onions, i parsnip, i head of celery, \ tea-cupful of rice, salt and pepper 
to taste, 4 quarts of water. Simmer all gently about four hours, or till 
the gravy is drawn &om the meat Strain off the soup, and let it stand 
till cold. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put in 
the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of 
fresh carrot, turnip, and onion ; stew till the vegetables are tender, and 
serve with toasted bread. 

a. Pork Cutlets Broiled. — Take some cutlets from a loin of pork, trim 
them neatly, and cut off nearly all the fat. Season them with pepper, 
and place them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. Broil them for a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, as pork requires to be very well 
done. Turn them as often as necicssary while over the fire. When 
they are done, put them on a hot dish, and serve them with sauce 
piquante, or plain brown gravy. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 313 

3# Vermicelli Pudding. — Wash 3 oz. of vermicelli and put it into a 
saucepan with 3 cupfiils of milk ; boil it for a quarter of an hour, then 
add 2 oz. of butter. Well beat 3 eggs with 3 spoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and when the vermicelli is quite cold sdr in the eggs and sugar. 
Bake it one hour, and serve with brandy sauce. 



NOVEMBER 2. 

' Endeavour to have as little to do with thy affectum and passions as thou canst, and 
labour to thy power to ntake thy body content to go 0/ thy souths errands,* — JEREMY 
Taylor. 

1. Baked Haddocks. I 3. Aldershot Pudding. 

2. VealOuves. I 4. Vegetables. 

2. Veal Olives. — Some slices of veal, a slice or two of fat bacon, 
some forcemeat, a shalot, cayenne pepper, egg, some brown gravy. 
Cut some thin slices of veal rather wide, but not more than 3 or 4 inches 
long ; lay a very thin slice of fat bacon on each, then a layer of force- 
meat, a little shalot sliced as thin and fine as possible, with pepper, 
salt, and cayenne ; roll them round, and fasten each securely with a 
small skewer ; brush them over with egg, and fry them a nice brown. 
Boil a few mushrooms, pickled or fresh, with half a pint, or as much as 
your olives will require, of brown gravy, pour it round them, and garnish 
with egg-balls. 

3. Aldershot Pudding. — Three-quarters of a lb. of bread-crumbs, 10 
oz. of suet, } lb. of fine moist sugar, 2 lemons, 2 oz. of candied orange- 
peel. Mix the bread-crumbs with the suet chopped as fine as you can, 
the grated lemon-peel, the candied orange or lemon cut very small ; add 
the sugar and juice of the lemons, grate in a little nutmeg, and bake 
them in small buttered moulds for about three-quarters of an hour. 
When done, turn them out on a dish, and pour some lemon, or any 
sweet sauce you may prefer, over them. 



NOVEMBER 8. 

'^i, haw much suffering might be spared sometimes by a single abstinence, by a single 
No^ answered in a fierce tone, to the voice of seduction /* — Lavater. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Haricot OF Veal. 



3. Apple Fritters. 

4. Vegetables. 



2. Haricot of Veal. — Cut off the bones from the best end of a neck 
of veal quite short, but leave the neck whole ; put all into a stewpan. 



314 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

and cover it with some good gravy. Just before servings add a pint of 
green peas, then cucumbers cut into slices, the carrots and turnips cut 
into wheels, and the lettuces into 4 pieces, previously stewed in a little 
broth, and let them simmer with the veal for ten or twelve minutes. 
Dish up the meat, pour the vegetables and sauce over it, and garnish 
with the quarters of lettuce and forcemeat-balls. 

3. Apple Fritters, — Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the 
whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg, 
a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then 
add gradually sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Pare and core 
6 large apples, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or 
more ; dip each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard 
about six minutes ; the lard should not be made too hot at first, but 
must become hotter as they are frying. Serve on a napkin, with sifted 
sugar over them. 



NOVEMBER 4. 

* Moderation is the silken string running through the pearl chain of all virtues *^^ 

Fuller. 



1. Whitings. 

2. Stewed Pigeons. 



3. Alice Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



2. Stewed Pigeons. — Pick and wash 6 pigeons, put them into a stew- 
pan with a pint of good gravy, an onion cut small, the shalots, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, a pint of mushrooms cut into small pieces, and a little 
pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace. Let the whole stew gently until 
tender, and add the wine just before you take the stewpan from the 
fire. Put the pigeons on a dish, brown the sauce, and pour it with the 
mushrooms over the pigeons. Stew over the whole some grated bread, 
and brown it with a salamander. 

3. Alice Pudding, — Make a good custard with five well -beaten 
cggSy l^^lf A pint of cream, and the same quantity of milk, or milk alone ; 
add f of an oz. of isinglass, and flavour it with a small piece of shred 
vanilla tied in muslin. When cold, stir in 2 dessert spoonfuls of brandy. 
Have ready any ornamental mould, dip it in water, and fill the pattern 
at the bottom with custard ; then place in slices of spongecake in layers 
with raspberry jam between each, and fill up the mould with the re- 
mainder of the custard ; put it in a cold place until the next day, or 
ice it Turn it out, and ornament it with crystallized fruit or jelly. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 315 



NOVEMBER 8. 

' That good sense which nature affords us^ is preferable to mast of the hnawledge that we 

can ac^re/'-^^OMiHES. 

I. SOITFFLEE OF ChICKEN. I 3. LeMON DUMPLINGS. 

a. Cheshire Pork Pie. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Saufflke of Chicken, — Chicken legs, etc., } of a pint of white sauce, 
pepper and salt, i dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley and sweet herbs, 
3 ^gs, a few bread-crumbs. 

Take the meat from the legs of chicken, pheasant, or rabbit ; take 
out the sinews ; mince the meat very small by putting it through the 
mincing machine twice ; boS it in a stewpan with white sauce, pepper, 
salt, and a little chopped parsley, or any other sweet herb ; stir it on 
the fire till it boils ; put into it the yolks of 3 eggs, whipped to a firm 
froth that will bear an egg ; stir them lightly into the mixture. Bake it 
in a plain mould, with paper round the top to allow it to rise ; bake it in a 
very quick oven. Serve white sauce or gravy round it Butter the mould, 
and shake bread-crumbs into it previous to putting the mixtiure into it 

2. Cheshire Fork Fie. — Divide a loin of pork into chops, and cut 
away the skin and the greatest part of the fat ; season the meat with 
salt, soluble cayenne, and a little nutmeg. Peel and core a dozen 
pippins, filling up the centres with fine Lisbon sugar. Line your dish 
with a good crust paste, then put in a layer of pork, then a layer of 
pippins, and so on till you have filled your dish ; pour in a pint of 
sherry, and cover down with paste for top crust Two hoiu^' baking 
will not be too much to ensure the meat being perfectly done. 

3. Lemon Dumplings, — Half a lb. of grated bread, \ lb. of suet, i 
lemon, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs. 

Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the grated bread, the sugar 
pounded, and the peel of the lemon grated ; mix these all well to- 
gether with 2 well-beaten eggs ; make it into small balls, or boil it in 
a basin. 



NOVEMBER 6. 
* Pleasure and action make the hours seemjhort,^ — Shakspearb. 



1. Vermicelli Soup. 

2. Veal Cutlets. 



3. Maud Pudding. 

4. Spinach. 



I. Vermicelli Soup. — ^Vermicelli must not be kept too long in the 
house, or it will be unfit for table. If of very fine quality, it usually 
requires less boiling. Drop very lightly, and by degrees, 6 oz. of ver- 



3i6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

micelli, broken rather small, of boiling bouillon or clear gravy soup ; let 
it simmer for half an hour over a gentle fire, and stir it often. 

2. Veal Cutlets, — ^Take about 2 lbs. from the best end of a neck of 
veal, and divide it into cutlets all of the same size — ^that of a crown-piece, 
and rather more than a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into the 
yolks of some beaten eggs, and then cover them with bread-crumbs 
mixed with a little cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, a table-spoonful of minced 
herbs, and the peel of half a lemon chopped as fine as possible. Fry 
them a nice brown in butter. Toast an equal number of very thin 
slices of bacon, or ham, as near the size of the cutlets as you can, and 
roll them round. Arrange the cutlets in a pile in the dish ; surround 
them with the rolls of bacon. Pour a little good gravy into the centre, 
and serve with mushroom sauce or without. 

3. Maud Pudding, — Beat the butter to a cream, then add gradually 
the sugar pounded, and the grated lemon-peel ; stir in the eggs well 
beaten, and then the flour dried before the fire. Beat all well together ; 
half fill some cups or moulds, well-buttered, with the mixture, and put 
them into the oven the moment the flour is added. Bake them in a 
quick oven for half an hour, or longer should it be a slow one. Serve 
them quickly, with wine sauce poured over them. 

4. Spinach, — Pick and wash the spinach carefully, then put it in an 
inner saucepan, without any water, and cover closely. Keep the outer 
saucepan nearly filled with water, which keep boiling. When the 
spinach is done, put it to drain where it will keep hot, but do not press 
it. Chop it small ; add hard-boiled eggs chopped in, any quantity you 
desire ; flavour it with a dash of nutmeg and some pepper ; add a piece 
of fresh butter : beat the whole up with a fork, and return it to the 
inner kettle to stew for twenty minutes. Serve on buttered toast, and, 
if liked, add curled rashers of bacon, or chopped ham. Spinach juice 
for colouring is obtained by pounding raw leaves ; the juice must then 
be strained and boiled up. 

— — 

NOVEMBER 7. 

• TTitre is no action in this life which is not the beginning of so long a chain of con* 
sequences, as thai no human providence is high enough to give us a prospect to the end,* 
— Thomas of Malmesburv. 

1. Curried Cod. 1 3. LecheCrema. 

2. Venison Pasty. | 4. Vegetables. 

I. Curried Cod, — ^Take a piece of cod, pull it into lai^e flakes, and 
fry it till -brown ; put this into a stewpan, with half a fried onion. Pour 
over it sufficient good stock to cover it ; add a tea*spoonful of cuiry 



BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 3 1 7 

powder, and 2 oz. of butter, with salt to taste, also the juice of half a 
lemon. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, or until the fish is cooked ; 
thicken the gravy, and serve. 

2. Venison Pasty, — ^Take a neck or shoulder of venison, remove the 
bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a 
stewpan, with 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add \ pint 
of port wine, and sufficient veal broth, or stock, to cover it ; put it on a 
gentle fire, and let it stew until three parts done. Then take out the 
neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, 
in a cold place, with a little of the gravy poured over them. Pour the 
remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc., and boil it for a quarter of 
an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust ; ornament the 
top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, 
have ready the gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it clean \ add 
a glass of port wine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. 

For the gravy. — ^A glass of port wine, juice of a small lemon, a piece 
of butter and flour, some stock firom the stewed venison. 

3. Leche Crhna, — Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and 
add to them gradually i^ pints of milk ; then mix carefully 4 table- 
spoonfiils of fine wheat flour and 2 oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, 
with grated lemon-peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a 
slow fire, stirring constantly to prevent their burning, until the flour is 
quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with \ lb. of ratafia cakes at 
the bottom, and when the cr€ma is sufliciently boiled, pour it through 
a sieve upon the cakes. This delicious dish is always served cold ; but 
just before sending it up, some finely-powdered cinnamon should be 
dusted thickly over it. 

— <y — 

NOVEMBER 8. 
• // bihova the high^ for their own sake^ to do things worthily, '— Ben Jonson. 

1. Cod Sounds a la Tripe. I 3. Worcester Pudding. 

2. Hare Pie. | 4. Vegetables. 

I. Cod Sounds d la Tripe, — Soak the sounds in lukewarm water till 
they are perfectly clean and white, then boil them in milk and water 
until quite tender. Have ready a small Spanish onion that has been 
boiled in two waters, cut the onion into half a dozen parts, then warm 
it up with the sounds in cream, seasoned with three-fourths of a spoon- 
fill of salt, a fourth of pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Serve 
with firesh mustard and a lemon. 



3i8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Hare Pie, — Cut the hare into small pieces, and season it with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; put it into a jar, cover it close, and 
set it over the fire in a deep stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew 
until half done. Make a forcemeat with \ lb. of scraped bacon, i 
onion minced fine, the crumb of a French roll grated, the liver chopped 
fine, a little winter savoury, grated nutmeg, and a glass of port wine. 
Season it with pepper and salt, and mix it well together with the yolks 
of 3 well-beaten eggs. Line the side and edge of a dish with puff 
paste ; put the forcemeat at the bottom, and then the pieces of hare, 
with the gravy that ran from it in the jar ; cover it over with a puff 
paste ; make a hole in the top, egg it over, and bake. 

3. Worcester Pudding. — One tea-spoonfiil of carbonate of soda, 2 
tea-cupfiils of flour, \ lb. of suet, \ lb. of stoned raisins, i table- 
spoonful of sugar, ^ pint of milk, peel of half a lemon, and some 
nutmeg. 

Mix the carbonate of soda with the flour, the suet chopped very fine, 
the raisins stoned, the sugar, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg ; mix all 
together with a pint of milk : put it into a basin or mould ; boil it two 
hours and a half, and serve it with sweet sauce. 



■ih 



NOVEMBER 9. 



* Remember that in aJl miseries lamenting becomes fools^ and action wisefMJ'^ 

Sir. p. Sidney. 



1. Chicken Soup. 

2. Devonshire Squab Cake. 



3. Lemon Turnovers. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Chicken Soup, — Put 2 quarts of white stock, i^ lb. of bacon stuck 
with cloves, \ oz. of butter worked up in flour, i small fowl trussed for 
boiling, into a stewpan, and stew for three-quarters of an hour. Take 
2 oz. of vermicelli, add to it a little of the stock, and set it on the fire 
till quite tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, 
and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible ; 
pour it, with the vermicelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in 
the soup, and serve. 

2. Devonshire Squab Pie, — Cover a pie-dish with a good pie-crust, and 
put at the bottom of it a layer of pippins pared, cored, and cut into 
slices, then a layer of mutton steaks, cut from the loin, and well seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; then put another layer of pippins, and 2 onions 
sliced thin (but previously boiled in two waters, to extract the strong 
flavour), and put over the pippins; then again with mutton, pippins, 
and onions until the dish is full; pour in a pint of water; put a cover 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 319 

over the pie with a hole in the top, glaze and ornament it, and 
bake. 

3. Ltman Turnovers, — ^Three dessert-spoonfuls of flour, i of powdered 
sugar, rind of i lemon, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, and a little milk. 



NOVEMBER 1 0. 

*Be nd too tctme neither y but Id your own discretion be your tutor. Suit the action to 
the word, the word to the action ; with this special observance^ that you derstep not the 
modesty of nature? — Shakspeare. 

1. Oyster Patties. I 3. Adelind Pudding. 

2. Veal and Ham Pie. J 4. Vegetables. 

1. Oyster Patties. — Should a dish of these savoury little pies be 
desired, either for lunch, supper, or to make out the bill of fare for your 
dinner, procure from a pastry-cook as many empty puff patties as re- 
quired. Beard and cut the oysters into four; stew them for a few 
minutes in their own liquor, mixed with ci;eam, seasoned with a very 
small quantity of soluble cayenne, salt, powdered mace, and lemon- 
juice. When the fish is ready, remove with a spoon the top of the patty ; 
fill with your stew, then rub the edges of the divided paste with white 
of ^^ ; put on the tops, and place the patties on a slow oven for ten 
minutes before they are required. 

2. Veal and Ham Pie. — Cut about 2 lbs. of veal and \ a lb. of ham 
or bacon into rather small cutlets ; fry 3 or 4 minced mushrooms and a 
sprig of parsley in a small piece of butter seasoned with pepper and 
salt ; then pour in a table-spoonfiil of ketchup, about \ a pint of water 
(or gravy if you have it), dredge in some flour, and stir it all over the 
fire until it boils. Place the veal and ham alternately in a pie-dish lined 
with puff paste, pour in the gravy, add 5 or 6 hard-boiled eggs cut 
across, and cover the pie with puff paste ; make a hole at the top, orna- 
ment it with paste in any forms you please, and bake it. Pour in a little 
more gravy, when done, through the hole at the top. 

3. Adelind Pudding. — Put the juice and the grated peel of the lemon 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, and stir the whole 
over the fire until nearly boiling. Have ready the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth, and stir them into the yolks, adding \ a 
breakfast-cup of wine. Put the sponge biscuits into a dish, pour over 
them the remainder of the wine, and when soaked, lay over them some 
preserve, and pour the custard made from the lemon and the yolks of 
the eggs over them, then pile some whipped cream on the top, and 
omament it with harlequin comfits.' 



520 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



NOVEMBER 11. 

' Action is no less necessary than thought to the instinctive tendencies of the human 

franu, ' — Hazlitt. 



1. Beefsteak Pudding. 

2. Ragout of Rabbit. 



3. Orange Tartlet. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Beefsteak Pudding, — ^Put a pound, or a little more, of flour in a 
basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very finely chopped suet ; put 
in a good heaped salt-spoonful of salt Mix it to a paste with water ; 
flour the pasteboard, the roller, and your hands. Take out the lump of 
paste, and roll it out about \ an inch thick. 

Butter a round-bottomed pudding basin, line it with paste, turning a 
little over the edge. Cut up the steak into small pieces, with a little 
fat; flour them slightly; season highly with pepper and salt, then lay 
them in the basin ; pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest of 
the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it down with 
the thumb. 

Tie the basin in a floured pudding cloth, and put it into a saucepan 
in a gallon of boiling water ; keep it continually boiling for nearly two 
hours, occasionally adding a litde more water. 

Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on the dish, and 
take the basin carefully from it. Serve. 

2. Ragout of Rabbit, — ^Wash and clean a good Ostend rabbit; boil 
the liver and heart, which chop flne and mix with some good veal stufi"- 
ing ; fill the rabbit, and sew it up. Put 2 lbs. of fat beef and the same 
weight of pickled pork into a saucepan with a quart of water and a good- 
sized onion sliced. Let them simmer slowly for an hour, then put in 
your rabbit, and boil all together for another hour. Skim ofif all ^e fat 
about ten ;ninutes before serving, and thicken the gravy with flour and 
butter. Season with pepper and salt, and add a bunch of parsley 
boiled soft and green, and finely chopped. Lay the rabbit and the meat 
in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 

3. Orange Tartlet. — ^Take out the pulp firom 2 Seville oranges, boil 
the peels until quite tender, and then beat them to a paste with twice 
their weight in pounded loaf sugar, then add the pulp and the juice of 
the oranges with a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; beat all these 
ingredients together, line some patty-pans with rich pufi* paste, lay the 
orange mixture in them, and bake them. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER, 321 

NOVEMBER 12. 
• Our actions are our own : tJieir conseqtunces belong to heaven,^ — P. Francis. 



1. Vermicelli Soup. 

2. Jugged Hare. 

3. Eel Pie. 



4. Frank Sewell Tartlets. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Vermicdli Soup, — Soak for half -an hour a \ lb. of vermicelli 
(broken into inch lengths) in cold water, then drain it. Put it into a 
stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan or Stilton, a tea-spoonful of fresh -made mustard, a salt- 
spoonful of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer gently for good 
three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of 
stocky and a wine-glassful of Marsala or i\ of sheny. Boil slowly about 
eight minutes longer, and serve with a separate dish of Parmesan or 
Stilton cheese. 

2. Jugged Hare, — Skin the hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash 
it ; dredge it with flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, seasoning it 
with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Make about a pint and a half of 
gravy from the beef Put the pieces of hare into a jar ; add the onion 
stuck with 4 or 5 cloves, the lemon peeled and cut, and pour in the gravy. 
Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam ; put it into a deep stewpan of 
cold water, and let it boil four hours ; but if a young hare, three hours 
will be sufficient When done, take it out of the jar and shake it over 
the fire for a few minutes^ adding a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
2 glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, with some 
fried forcemeat-balls. Serve with red currant jelly. 

3. Eel Pie, — Make a good crust ; clean, gut, and wash the eels well ; 
cut them in pieces as for stewing ; season them with pepper and salt 
and a little beaten mace, according to your taste. Line the sides of your 
dish with crust, fill in the eels, and put as much water as the dish will 
hold, with a table-spoonful of ketchup ; put on the cover, and bake it 
well 

4. Frank Sewell Tartlets, — ^Whites of 3 eggs, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 
some apricot jam or orange marmalade, puff paste. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, then stir in the loaf sugar 
pounded fine, and whisk it well to a very stiff froth ; have ready some 
patty-pans lined with puff paste; put a spoonful of apricot jam or 
orange marmalade at the bottom of each, and bake them ; and when 
taken from the oven, pile the froth on each. 




322 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

NOVEMBER 13. 

* Our acts make or mar us ; we are the children of our own deeds. * — Victor HucOu 

I. Sucking Pig. | 2. Wyvern Puddings. 

3. Vegetables. 

1. Sucking Pig, — It should not be much more than three weeks eld, 
and is much better if you can get it when just killed. Let it be scalded 
(which is usually done by the dealers) ; then put about 15 sage leaves 
minced, pepper and salt to taste, and about 6 oz. of bread well mixed, 
and put into the body and send it up neatly. Then skewer the legs 
back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk dear fire (not 
too near) till thoroughly dry ; have ready some butter tied up in a thin 
dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part Dredge as much floiu: 
over it as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve. 
Then scrape oflf the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well 
with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire ; take 
out the brains and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig 
(many send it to table whole, the head only being cut off to garnish). 
Then take it up, and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the bade 
and belly ; lay it into a hot dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly 
as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted 
butter that has very little flavour. Put the sauce into the dish after the 
pig has been split down the back and garnished with the ears and the 
two jaws ; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout 

2. Wyvern Puddings, — Three-quarters of a pint of milk, 3 ^gs, 
enough flour to make a thick batter, raspberry jam. Make a nice 
batter of the milk, flour, and eggs. Butter some patty-pans. Pour the 
batter into them till they are three-parts fiill ; bake them. When done, 
place them on a folded napkin, and put jam on the top of them. 



NOVEMBER 14. 

' Jj you wish to appear agreeable in society^ you must consent to be taught many 
things which you know already,'* — Lavater. 



1. Fried Soles. 

2. Venison. 

3. Sauce to ditto. 



4. Bath PuDDiKa 

5. Vegetables. 



2. Vmsion, — Have the haunch properly trimmed by removing the 
chine and knuckle bones, which stew to make the gravy. Cover the 
haunch either with a lamb's caul, or two or three folds of paper to pro- 
tect the fat from burning. Roast before a slow fire, basting for some 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 323 

time with salt and water, to prevent the paper burning. A weight of 
12 lbs. will take three hoiu^ When nearly done, remove the paper, 
dredge with flour, and baste with butter until every part is nicely 
browned and frothed. Serve very hot, with a paper frill round the 
knuckle, and the gravy made from the trimmings, flavoured only with 
salt Send red currant jelly to table with it. 

Note. — ^Venison should hang three or four weeks before dressing ; 
in this case it is best to remove the outer skin before the joint is 
cooked. 

3. Sauce to do. — ^Put a small jar of red currant jelly and i glass 
of port wine in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted, not boiled, 
pour in a tureen, and serve. 

4. Bath Pudding, — ^Mix the milk and flour into a smooth hasty 
pudding. Four it into a basin on the butter, and stir it till the butter 
is melted. When cold, add the eggs well beaten, sugar, nutmeg and 
the rind of a lemon, the juice of half a lemon, and a little ratafia or 
brandy. Bake it in a dish with a puff paste on the edge. Put it in a 
brisk oven. Serve with wine sauce. 



NOVEMBER 18. 

* You have greatly ventured; but all must do so, who would greatly win,'* — Byron. 



I. TURBOT. 

2. Hashed Venison. 



3. Orange Fritters. 

4. Vegetables. 



2. Hashed Venison, — Parboil a small onion and stick it with cloves ; 
well wash and chop small an anchovy ; put these in a stewpan with half 
a pint of port wine, a table-spoonfiil of mushroom ketchup, another of 
Lopresti's ' Duke of Gloster's Sauce,* and two table-spoonfiils of currant 
jeUy ; as soon as these boil, take out the onion and put in the slices of 
venison, which should be cut moderately thin; five minutes will be 
quite time enough to warm the meat 

3. Orange Fritters, — Make a light batter with \ lb. of flour, 2 eggs, 
\ oz. of butter, \ a salt-spoonfiil of salt, mixed with milk till of a proper 
consistency. Peel the oranges, and as much of the white skin as you 
can ; divide each into 8 pieces, take out the pips, being careful not to 
break the thin skin ; then dip each piece in the batter ; drop in the 
oranges into a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping, and fry them 
for eight or ten minutes; when fiied a delicate brown, lay them before 
the fire on blotting paper to drain away the grease ; serve veiy quickly 
(on a white d'oyley), with plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over 
^em. 



324 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



NOVEMBER 16. 

• Toil t feel, think, Hope, We are sure to dream enough before we die^ without 
making arrangements for the purpose,^ — Stirling. 



1. Macaroni Soup. 

2. Breslau of Beef. 



3. Pain A LA DucHEssE.' 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Macaroni Soup. — ^Break up a J lb. of Naples macaroni into inch 
lengths, and soak it in cold water for half an hour ; drain. Put it into 
a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table^spoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese (or Stilton), a tea-spoonful of fresh -made mustard, 
a salt-spoonful of salt, a spoonful of loaf sugar, and simmer gently 
for an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of stock, and a 
wine-glassful of Marsala. BoU slowly ten minutes longer, and serve, 
with a separate dish of grated Parmesan or Stilton. 

2. Breslau of Berf. — ^Trim the brown edges from the beef, shred it 
very small, and mix it with fine bread-crumbs, minced parsley and 
thyme, the grated lemon-peel, and butter broken into very small pieces ; 
pour on the mince a cupful of gravy (or, if you have it, a cupful of 
cream) ; add the 3 eggs thoroughly beaten. Season it well with pepper, 
cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, if to your taste. Butter some coffee-cups or 
the tin cups sold for poaching eggs in, put the Breslau into them, bake 
it for half an hour, and serve. Garnish with egg-balls, sauce Espagnole, 
or good gravy. 

3. Pain a la Duchesse, — Boil in a quarter of a pint of milk half the 
rind of a lemon, a small stick of cinnamon, and a bit of butter the size 
of a nut. Strain it, and set on the fire in a stewpan. When it boils 
stir in 2 spoonfuls of flour and half a glass of brandy. Take it 
off and rub it well together. When quite cold, add 4 eggs, one at a 
time, rubbing well all the while. Divide the mixture into tea-spoonfuls 
on a plate, let it stand to grow firm, then fry in plenty of boiling lard. 



NOVEMBER 17. 

* To cultivate sympathy, you must be amon^ living creatures, and thinking about 

them.^ — RusKiN. 



1. Guinea Fowl. 

2. Round of Boiled Beef. 



3. Charles Douglas Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Guinea Fowl, — Slices of fat ham should be skewered over this 
bird whilst roasting, and it should also be plentifully basted, the meat 
being peculiarly dry. A guinea fowl and pheasant are advantageously 
dressed together when the latter is in full season. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 325 

2. Round of Boiled Beef , — Select a fine rib of beef, from 9 to 10 lbs.; 
have the bone removed, — it will make a gravy 4br anything you may 
require ; rub a little salt over the inside of tlie rib, roll it like a fillet of 
vealy and bind it round with a tape or a few wooden skewers ; place it 
in sufficient pickle to cover it, and let it remain in it five or six days, 
turning it every morning. When it is required, place it in a stewpan of 
very hot water (to prevent the gravy from being drawn out), and let it 
only simmeTy not boil^ according to the size of the joint, allowing the 
full dme for each pound of meat. When done, remove the skewers, and 
replace them with a silver or plated one. 

3. Charles Douglas Budding, — Half a lb. of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of 
beef suet, 6 oz. of stoned raisins, 2 table-spoonfuls of the best moist 
sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, half a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, 
a little salt, 4 drops of essence of almonds, i tgg, a glass of sherry, 
nearly half a pint of milk. Mix the above quantities well and gradually 
togedier, and when thoroughly beaten up, put the pudding into a well^ 
buttered mould, and boil it Serve with brandy or wine sauce. 



-0 — 



NOVEMBER 18. 

' lial/ ike ills we hoard within our hearts are ills because we hoard them. * — 

Barry Cornwall. 



1. Roast Fowl. 

2. Irish Stew. 



3. Agnes Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Roctsi Fowl. — Fill the breast of the fowl with a nice veal stuffing, 
and truss it for roasting 3 put it down to a clear fire, and dredge over 
it a little flour. If a large fowl, it will require about an hour to roast, 
but less time if of a medium size. When done, remove the skewers, 
and serve it with brown gravy and bread sauce. 

2. Irish Stew. — ^Put 2 lbs. of breast of mutton in a pot, with i\ pints 
of water and a pinch of salt. Let it stew gently for an hour, then take 
ofi* all the fat. Take out the meat and cut it into small pieces ; have 
ready 4 lbs. of potatoes pared and cut in halves, 3 or 4 good-sized 
onions peeled and sliced, and pepper and salt mixed in a cup. When 
you have taken the fat ofi* the broth as closely as possible, put in a 
layer of potatoes ; then sprinkle 2 or 3 pieces of meat with the pepper 
and salt, and lay them on the potatoes; then a layer of the sliced 
onions, then another layer of potatoes, i of mutton, then i of onions, 
and so on till the whole is in. Cover close, and let it stew very 
gently for another hour, shaking it frequently, that it may not bum. 

3. Agnes Budding. — ^Butter a pudding-mould thickly ; sprinkle brown 



326 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

sugar over the butter, and then line the mould with slices of bread 
thickly buttered. Cut some good baking £q)ples into slices; place 
them in the mould in layers, with grated lemon-peel, candied citron, 
and orange-peel, and a litde sugar between each layer of apples. 
When the mould is full, cover the top with a slice of bread, previously 
soaked in a little warm water. Bake it in a moderately-heated oven ; 
turn it out of the mould, and serve it 



NOVEMBER 10. 

* Adversity is ihe only balance to wei^h frkitds, ' — Plutarch. 



1. Boiled Beef. 

2. Hashed Hare. 



3. Brandy Pudding. 

4. Carrots. 



1. BoiUd Beef, — ^After the beef has been in the pickle for about 
nine or ten days, take it out and wash it in water ; skewer it up in a 
round form, and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stew- 
pan of water, and when it boils, remove the scum very carefully, or it 
will sink, and spoil the appearance of the meat Then draw the sauce- 
pan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly until done. When 
ready to serve, draw out the skewers and replace them with a silver 
one. Pour over it a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, 
and garnish with boiled carrots and parsnips. When taken from 
the water, trim off any soiled part from the beef before sending it to 
table. 

2. Hashed Hare. — Into a pint of beef gravy put a couple of silver 
onions and 3 or 4 cloves, with a small qxiantity of soluble cayenne and 
salt ; let this boil slowly till you have extracted the flavour of the spice 
and vegetables ; take them out, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of red cur- 
rant jeUy, and a good-sized wine-glass of port When all is quite hot, 
put in the hare, previously cut in small pieces ; and, should any of the 
stuffing be left, crumble it into the saucepan. Do not suffer the meat 
to remain long in the sauce. Serve it hot, with sippets and currant 
JeHy. 

3. Brandy Pudding, — Line a pudding-mould with jar raisins or dried 
cherries, then with slices of French roll ; next to which put ratafias or 
macaroons, then the iruit, roll, and cakes in succession until the mould 
be full ; sprinkle in at times 2 glasses of brandy ; beat 4 whole eggs ; 
add to them a pint of milk or cream, the peel of half a lemon finely 
grated, and half a grated nutmeg. Let the liquid sink into the solid 
part ; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over the mould, and boil it, keeping 
it the right side up. Serve it out of the mould, and with sweet sauce. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 327 



NOVEMBER 20. 

• Life is a short day ; but it is a working day. Activity may lead to evii, bttt inactivity 

cannot be led to good,* — H. More, 



1. Prin'ce Arthur's Soup. 

2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 



3. Beetroot and Onion. 

4. Baked Codling Pudding. 



I. Prince Arthur's Soup, — Twelve turnips, i lump of sugar, 2 spoon- 
fuls of strong veal stock, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of very 
bright stock. 

Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as 
possible, but very small ; put them in the stock, which must be very 
bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and seasoning. 
Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling ; 
moisten them with stock; put them in a tureen, and pour the soup 
over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would 
spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. 

To clarify Stock. — ^The whites of 2 eggs, \ pint of water, 2 quarts of 
stock. Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, 
and that its quantity is 2 quarts, take the whites of 2 eggs carefully 
separated from their yolks, whisk them well together with the water, 
and add gradually the 2 quarts of boiling stock, still whisking. Place 
the soup on the fire, and when boiling and well-skinmied, whisk the 
eggs with it till nearly boiling again ; then draw it from the fire and 
let it settle till the whites of the eggs become separated. Pass through 
a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear. 

Note. — ^The rule is, that all clear soups should be of a light straw 
colour. 

3. Beetroot and Onion. — ^A root of beet well boQed, and its outside 
coat taken off, served to table with a Spanish onion boiled, are admir- 
able accompaniments to either beef or mutton roasted. If cream can 
be readily procured, stew the onion in it ; the beetroot requires only 
plain boiling. These vegetables should be eaten with a little salt and 
soluble cayenne, with the gravy of the joint poured over them. In 
dressing them, you can judge by the outside skin of the beetroot being 
easily detached, and firom the softness the onion attains either in water 
or cream. 

4. Baked Codling Pudding, — Roast 6 large codling apples, take out 
the pulp ; beat up yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs ; add \ lb. of pow- 
dered white sugar, the same weight of clarified butter, the juice of a 
lemon, its rind cut very small, i oz. of candied orange and lemon peel 
cut into small portions, a wine-glass of brandy, and the crumb of a 
French roll finely grated. Mix up these ingredients well together. 



328 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the materials, and bake. Before 
serving, cover top with powdered sugar, garnish sides widi candied 
fruit 



NOVEMBER 21. 
* Adversity is the first path to trutA.*—lX>KD Btron. 

1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. | 3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding. 

2. Hashed Widgeon. I 4. Vegetables. 

2. Hashed Widgeon, — Cut the birds into joints ; mix the juice of 2 
Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfuls of Reading or home-made sauce, 
a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke 
bottoms broken into bits. See that you have enough to cover the flesh, 
adding a little more of each liquid if necessary. Make it boil, and ten 
minutes before the hash is required put in the meat, and let it simmer 
gently for that time. 

3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding. — Fare 12 large apples; take out the 
cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water; 
boil them till they are soft and thick ; beat them well, and stir in a lb. 
of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and 
beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of S 
eggs beaten up ; mix all together, put it in a puff paste to bake it 
When it is nearly done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. 



NOVEMBER 22. 

* Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than the sntaU-pox.^ — St. Evremond. 



1. Roast Pheasant. 

2. Veal Curry. 



3. Baked Apple and Almond 

Pudding, 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Roast Pheasant. — These birds should not be cooked till there is 
a slight change in the colour of the breast, and care should be taken 
not to pluck it till in a good condition to be cooked. It should be 
stuffed as follows : — ^Take 2 snipes, draw them, and put the bodies on 
one plate, and the livers, etc. on another. Take off the flesh, mince it 
finely with a little beef, lard, pepper and salt, and a few tnifiies, and 
stuff the bird carefully. Cut a slice of bread much larger than the bird, 
and cover it with the liver, etc., and a few truflles ; an anchovy and a 
little firesh butter added will much improve it. Put the bread, etc. into 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 329 

the dripping pan, and when the bird is roasted, place it on the prepara* 
tion, and surround it with Florida oranges. 

2. Veal Curry. — Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, into very 
small pieces, and a large sour apple into thin slices ; put them into a 
stewpan with the butter, and stir it about until lightly browned Then 
mix in the curry powder, the flour, and a pint of water ; add the veal 
cut into very small square pieces, seasoned with salt, and stir^t roimd 
several times, that it may be well covered with the cuny mixture. Put 
it over the fire to stew slowly for an hour and a half, or until the veal is 
tender. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon strained, stir it round, and 
serve with rice in a separate dish. 

3. Baked Apple and Almond Pudding. — Quarter of a lb. of sweet 
almonds and \ lb. of loaf sugar; pound all well together, then add the well- 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs. Grate the peel of i lemon, add the juice of it 
and I table-spoonful of flour. Mix well all together ; whip the whites of 
the 6 eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the other ingredients before 
baking. Pour the whole upon a thick layer of stewed apples already 
prepared in a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven until brown. 



NOVEMBER 23 

* Avoid all affectation and singularity. What is according to nature is best, and 
what is contrary to it is always distasteful. Nothing is graceful that is not our own.^—^ 
Jeremy Collier. 



1. Quails. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding. 



3. Rice Dumplings. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Quails. — ^Take a stewpan and put into it 2 oz. of fresh butter ; 
prepare spring onions, say a dozen, as for salad, and fry them, dusting 
in a little flour in the stewpan, till they are nicely browned, then add a 
wine-glassful of stock or water, and the same quantity of white wine ; 
let it come to the boil, then put in 4 quails, adding a little chopped 
parsley, a bay leaf, 3 cloves, and 6 more onions ; stew till the birds are 
sufiiciently done. Dish the quails, strain the gravy and pour over; 
garnish with toasted sippets. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding. — One lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped beef 
suet, \ a tea-spoonful of salt, and \ a pint of cold water. Mix the 
whole into a smooth, firm paste. Take f of this paste, mould it into a 
ball, and then with a rolling-pin roll it out sufliciently large to line i^ 
pint basin, previously well greased or buttered. Next, season about i^ 
lb. of tender steak, free from bone, with \ oz. of salt, and nearly ^ oz. 
of black pepper. Lay the steak in the basin in neat pieces, with a 
table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and a ^ of a pint of 



330 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

water. Moisten the paste round the edge ; roll out the remainder of 
the paste for a cover; close carefully round the edge; tie it in a 
cloth, and boil well for two or two and a half hours. When done, 
untie the doth, and turn it out into a deep dish; cut a small hole 
in the bottom, and pour in a litde boiling water or good gravy, and 
serve. 

3. Riu Dumplings. — Soak the quantity of rice required in lukewarm 
water till it is quite white ; then parboil it, and drain off the water. 
Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large 
enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, 
cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the rice 
carefully placed round it As soon as this is done tie the cloth tightly 
at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter or wine 
sauce. This is a very delicate dish, and well adapted for an invalid. 



NOVEMBER 24. 

' Advice is seldom wdconu ; those who need it most like it least, ' — Dr. JohNSOX. 



1. Woodcock. 

2. Veal Cutlets. 



3. Apple Charlotte. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Woodcock. — ^These birds must not be drawn. Truss the head 
under the wing, and the legs straight ; hang them to the fire, legs down- 
ward; baste with butter, and dredge the birds lightly with flour; have 
ready for each bird a slice of toasted bread without crust, and buttered 
on both sides, to place beneath the roast to catch the trail, this being 
regarded as superior to the birds themselves. Keep them basted con- 
stantly till done, which will be in from twenty to twenty-five minutes; 
put the toast on a very hot dish, having spread the trail evenly ; lay the 
birds on the toast, and pour around them a little gravy. Send gravy 
also in a tureen. 

2. VecU Cutlets. — Let the cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cat 
it into pieces the size and shape of a crown-piece. Chop the herbs 
very fine; mix them well with the bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets 
over with yolk of tgg, then cover them with the bread-crumbs and 
chopped herbs ; firy them lightly in butter, turning them when required. 
Take them out when done. Mix about an oz. of fresh butter with the 
grated peel of half a lemon, a little nutmeg, and flour; pour a litde 
water into the fiying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated lemon- 
peel into it; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat Serve 
them piled in the centre of the dish with thin rolls of bacon as a 
garnish. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 331 

3. Apple Charlotte, — Any number of rennet apples you desire to use ; 
peel, cut into quarters, take out the cores. Cut the quarters into slices ; 
let them cook over a brisk fire, with butter, sugar, and powdered cinna- 
mon, until they are tender ; add boiling cream or milk to some white 
bread-crumbs ; when cold, use the yolks of 4 eggs, and sugar to taste ; 
bake it half an hour in puff paste. 



NOVEMBER 28. 

* Admonish your friends privately^ but prime them openly,^ — PuBLiUS Syrus. 



1. Smelts. 

2. Boiled Rabbits. 



3. Plum-Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Smelts, — ^I'hey should not be washed more than is necessary to 
clean them, and must be very fresh. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour 
them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- 
crumbs grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; let 
them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make a bright yellow 
brown. Put them in a drainer before the fire ; but take care not to 
take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or the beauty of the fish will 
be spoiled. They are often used for garnishing. Serve with melted 
butter. 

2. Boiled Ra^Ms.-^-WBsh them well in warm water; they may be 
stuffed or not, according to taste. When stuffing is required, make it 
of crumbs of bread, suet, parsley, and onions, well chopped, and pepper 
and salt ; moisten with milk and egg. Put this into the belly and sew 
it up neatly. Truss in the same manner as roast hare ; put into boiling 
water for two minutes, reduce as before directed, and boil slowly for an 
hour. The sauce to be made of boiled onions, milk, melted butter, and 
flour, with pepper and salt, which pour over the rabbit when dished. 
This is called raddt't stnotliered in onions. When two rabbits are dished 
together, always lay the head of one in a contrary direction to that of 
the other. 

3. Flum-Pudding, — Six 02, of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of bread- 
crumbs, 6 oz. of suet, half a nutmeg, a little lemon-peel, 5 eggs, half a 
wine-glass of brandy. Mix these ingredients together, and put the 
pudding into a mould, and boil it 




332 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



NOVEMBER 26. 

* Mishaps are master^ by advice discreet^ 
And counsel mitigates the greatest smart.* — Spenser* 



1. Pike, 

2. Chicken Pie. 



3. Baked Apple Puddiko. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Pike, — Prepare a dressing with bread-crumbs, boiled eggs chopped 
fine, pepper, salt, and butter. Fill the body of the fish, and bind it 
firmly with slips of doth. Boil gently until thoroughly cooked. 
Remove it to the platter, and set it in the oven a few minutes to dry. 
Boil eggs hard, slice and lay them round the dish, and just before 
serving pour over the fish a little drawn butter. Prepare a sauce in this 
manner : — Boil 6 eggs one hour, work the yolks, until they become a 
paste, with a wooden spoon. Take a tea-cup nearly full of sweet 
butter ; mix with it a good table-spoonful of flour, work in the yolks of 
the eggs, and then stir gently, little by little, \ a pint of boiling water. 
Add a little salt, if needed, and pepper ; but if the butter is salt, no salt 
will be required. 

2. Chicken Pie. — ^Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a puff paste ; 
upon that, round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat ; cut 2 small 
chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt ; put some 
of the pieces into the dish, then some sweet-bread cut into pieces and 
well seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and the yolks of 4 or 5 hard- 
boiled eggs cut into 4 pieces, and strewed over the tops. Put in a little 
water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste ; glaze it, ornament 
the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in through the hole in the top 
a cupful of good gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. 

3. Baked Apple Pudding, — Prepare some apples as for sauce ; stew 
them to a pulp in water just enough to keep them firom burning, and 
to each \ lb. of pulp (when weighed) put \ lb. of loaf sugar, grate i 
lemon, beat up well 6 eggs. Beat together all the ingredients, then stir 
in 6 oz. of butter melted ; put a border of puff paste round the dish, and 
bake it from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 



NOVEMBER 27. 

* The truest end of life is to knew the life that never ends.'^—VfiUAKhl Pbnn. 

3. Stewed Cucuubeks. 

4. Raspberry Puff. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Roast Woodcocks. 

2. Beefsteak and Kidney 

Puddings. 



I. Roast Woodcocks. — Pluck off the feathers gently, or the skin of the 
birds will break, but handle them as lightly and as little as possible. 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 333 

Do not draw them ; but after wiping them with clean soft cloths, truss 
them with the head under the wing, and the bill laid close along the 
breast; skin the head and neck ; let the feet press against the thighs ; 
pass a slight skewer through the thighs, catch the ends with twine, and 
tie it across to keep the legs straight Dissolve some butter in a pan or 
ladle, and baste the birds with it; they should be well floured and 
suspended with the feet downwards to a bird-spit Lay in the pan a 
thick round of bread freed from crust, butter it on both sides (after 
having toasted it a light brown), the trail to drop on ; continue basting, 
and be particular that it drips on the toast or toasts, as a piece should 
be served with each woodcock, the trail being spread equally over the 
buttered toast Let there be a brisk clear fire ; if liked well done, they 
will take about twenty to twenty-five minutes (snipes, five minutes less). 
Lay the birds upon the toast, in a very hot dish ; pour some gravy round 
the bread, with the remainder in a tureen. 

2. Bufstectk and Kidney Puddings. — Take a lb. of nice tender beef, or 
rump-steak and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a ^ of an inch 
thick, season them well with pepper and salt, and dredge a little flour 
over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding-basin ; roll out 
the paste to about \ an inch in thickness, and line the basin ; then put in 
the beef and kidney, pour in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of water, cover a 
piece of paste over the top, press it firmly together with your thumb ; 
then tie the pudding-basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan 
with about 4 quarts of water; keep it constantly boiling, adding more 
boiling water if required. 

3. Stewed Cucumbers. — Select straightly grown cucumbers for this 
purpose ; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters longways ; take 
away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain ; when per- 
fectly dry, cover them with flour. Melt \ a pound of fresh butter in 
the frying-pan ; when it boils put in the vegetables, and fry them till 
they are of a light brown ; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set 
them on a sloping slab to drain off the fat Have ready some rich beef 
gravy, in which onions have been used ; put the cucumbers into a stew- 
pan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite tender. 
Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the gravy with 
flour and butter, season it to your taste with salt and pepper, boil it, 
and pour it quite hot over the slices. 

4. Raspberry Pitff. — Line a pie-dish with rich puflf paste. Put a layer 
of raspberry or strawberry preserve at the bottom, then a layer of the 
finger spongecakes, then a layer of the following mixture : — ^Take a gill 
of milk, I oz. of butter, a spoonful of flour, and the peel of a lemon 
grated, and boil it until it thickens. When cold, add the yolk of a 
beaten egg, a little nutmeg, and sugar to your taste. Cover the edge of 



n 



334 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

the paste to prevent its burning, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
Whisk the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, lay it on the pudding when 
baked, and put it again into the oven for a few minutes before serving. 



NOVEMBER 28. 

* A deity believed^ *^j^ begun; 
A deiiy adored, is Joy advanced; 
A deity hdaved, ^'j^y natural.* — ^YoUNa 

1. Pike. I 3. Citron Pudding. 

2. Pheasant. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Fikt. — Prepare, stuff, and tie in a circle. Put it in a baking-dish 
with a little flour and water at the bottom, and lay lumps of butter along 
its back. Set it in the oven, and when the butter is melted, baste the fish 
with its own gravy from time to time. When nearly done, add to the 
gravy a dessert-spoonful of capers and their vinegar, and a few olives. 
When quite done, dish the fish, put the gravy into a saucepan, and finish 
it off by adding stock if necessary, thickening and smoothing it with a 
sprinkle of flour, and seasoning with salt and pepper. Pour hot over 
the dish, and serve. Pike may also be thus baked at full length if 
preferred. 

2. Pheasant, — A pheasant requires to be well hung before dressmg, 
or it will be dry and tasteless. It is best hung in its feathers until it is 
fit for dressing. Do not wash pheasants before dressing; wipe them 
inside with a clean damp cloth ; roll a small piece of butter in pepper 
and salt, and put it inside the bird. Hang it down to a quick, brisk 
fire. It will take from three-quarters of an hour to one hour to cook. 
Baste it well with butter, and bring it to table nicely firothed, and with a 
little good beef gravy in the dish. Send a tureen of bread sauce and a 
tureen of gravy to table with the bird. 

Hen pheasants are the most delicate. They should be hung till 
blood drops from the bill — a sign that the pheasant is ready for dressing. 
Sometimes a few of the finest tail feathers are stuck in the dressed bird 
as an ornament, but it has rather a savage appearance. 

3. Citron Pudding. — Grate sufficient stale bread to fill a pint basin ; 
pour over it a pint of boiling milk, or cream. When cold, slice into it 
a lb. of beef matrow very thin; add 4 well-beaten eggs, sugar and 
nutm^ to taste, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Mix all well together, 
and boil it in a buttered mould two hours. Cut the citron into very 
thin shreds, and when the pudding is served, stick the citron over it 



BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER, 335 

NOVEMBER 20. 
• Knnv htm sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong. ' — Longfellow. 

1. Flemish Soup. i 3. Scalloped Oysters. 

2. Boiled Turkey. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Flemish Soup. — Simmer in \ pint of water for an hour, 10 moderate- 
sized potatoes, 4 onions, 5 heads of celery, 3 oz. of butter. Then fill 
up the stewpan with about 2 quarts of stock (this soup can be made 
with water instead), and boil gently about an hour more when the 
potatoes are done. Rub all through a tammy, and add \ pint of cream 
(which has been previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream 
is put in. 

2. Bailed Thrkey. — Prefer a hen turkey for boiling, as they are the 
most delicate. It should also be of a moderate size, which will take an 
hour and a half to dress. Hang the bird for four days at least, and having 
plucked, drawn, and smged it, cut off the head and neck, and draw out 
the sinews of the thighs ; cut off the legs at the first joint, and draw 
them inside the body ; break the breast-bone, and skewer the ends of 
the pinions down to the tops of the legs, passing the skewer right 
through the bird ; stuff the breast with forcemeat, sew up the opening, 
and set on to boil in hot water, skimming carefully until brought to the 
boil, then cover close to simmer slowly till done. Dish, and pour over 
the bird a little parsley sauce^ serving more in a sauce tureen. 

Tk€ Forcemeat. — Of ham or lean bacon mince 2 oz. very fine ; of 
parsley and sweet herbs, each i tea-spoonful ; a ^ of a pound of veal 
suet, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, the grated rind of J a lemon, with pounded 
mace, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Bind with 2 eggs. 

Note. — Boiled turkey may be served with parsley, white celery, 
mushroom, or oyster sauce. The stuffing should be in harmony with 
the sauce ; thus, if mushroom or oyster sauce is used, a few minced 
should be in the stuffing. Ham, tongue, salt pork, or bath chaps boiled 
should be served with turkey. 

3. Scalloped Oysters. — ^The true method of makmg this savoury winter 
dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- 
powdered crumbs of white bread, on this place as many bearded oysters 
as the shape will hold; over these strew a little salt and soluble 
cayenne, ^d 2 or 3 morsels of butter ; then make a second layer of 
crumbs, and proceed as before directed till the shape be filled ; then pour 
the liquor of the oysters over, put them into the oven for half an hour, 
and just before serving to table, brown the top with a hot salamander. 



336 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



NOVEMBER 80. 

' Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly hides itself to enhance 

its beauty.* — RiCHTER. 

1. Hessian Soup. I 3. Boiled Rabbits. 

2. Mutton Fib. | 4. Baked Apple PuddinGw 

1. Hessian Soup. — Rub half an ox's head with salt and water after 
cleaning it, and soak it for five hours in 5 quarts of warm water. Let 
it simmer till tender, then put it into a pan to cool, and skim off all 
the fat ; take out the head ; let a pint of split peas be previously soaked, 
and cut up small 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 6 turnips, 8 carrots, i head of 
celery. Simmer them (without the meat) till they will pulp through a 
sieve. Cut up the pieces of meat, put in the crumb of a French 
roll, and a seasoning of i bunch of savoury herbs, a little allspice, 
pepper and salt, 2 blades of mace, 4 cloves. Boil up once, and 
serve. 

A good ragout or hash can be made of the above by cutting up the 
nicest parts of the head, thickening and seasoning a little of the soup 
more highly, and adding 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup and a glass of 
port wine. 

2. Mutton Pie, — Strip off the meat from the bones of a loin of mutton 
without dividing it, and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them 
with pepper and salt ; put a pie-crust round the edge of a pie^ish ; place 
in it a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices of 
mutton, with 3 or 4 halves of kidneys at equal distances ; then pour in 
a gravy made from the bones, seasoned, and well cleared from fat 
Moisten the edge with water ; cover with a paste half an inch thick, 
press it round with your thumbs, make a hole in the centre, and cut the 
edges close to the dish ; ornament the top and border according to 
your taste, and bake it 

3. Boiled Kabbits, — For boiling, take out the liver and dress it 
separately ; and to ensure the desirable whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits 
soak for ten minutes in lukewann water. Half an hour's boiling will 
be sufficient for tliose of moderate size, more if they are: larger. Smother 
with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it in a sauce-boat 
If you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dislike tlie 
flavour from partaking of the dish. 

4. Baked Afple Pudding, — Peel and core 10 large apples ; boil as 
for sauce ; stir in \ lb. of butter till cold ; beat 5 eggs; put in the lind 
of a lemon grated, and juice ; sweeten, and bake in puff paste. 



DESSERT FOR NOVEMBER, 



337 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER. 
Centre of the table, an assiette montde gamie de bonbons, etc. 



1. Marmalade D* Ananas. 

2. Lemon Cake. 

3. Compote de Grenades. 

4. Naples Biscuits. 

5' Amandes, etc., a la Royale. 



6. Confitures a l'Eau-de-Vie. 

7. Pears, etc. 

Chestnuts, Filberts, Grapes, 
Walnuts, Apples. 



I. MARMALADE D'ANANAS. 

Take the flesh of a good-sized pine apple, cut it up small, and put 
with it an equal weight of powdered loaf sugar. Let it infuse until the 
following day, then put it in a preserving-pan, and stir it over a clear 
fire until it is sufficiently thickened. Put it into a mould to keep. 

2. LEMON CAKE. 

Take the whites of 10 eggs ; add to them half a wine-glass of orange- 
flower water ; beat them to a high froth, then by degrees put in a lb. 
of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a fresh lemon. 
When mixed smooth, add the yolks of the 10 eggs beaten to a high 
froth. Just before putting it in the oven, stir in 12 oz. of dry flour; 
butter a mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. An orange 
cake is made by substitutmg orange for the lemon. 



3. COMPOTE DE GRENADES. 

Carefully open 3 very ripe pomegranates of a good size ; take out 
the grains of the fruit and throw them into a boiling syrup of sugar 
boiled with suflicient water until it is well thickened. Let it just come 
to a boil, and then retire it from the fire. As soon as it is cool enough, 
pour fruit and syrup into a glass dessert-dish, and serve when quite 
cold. 

4. NAPLES BISCUITS. 

Beat 12 eggs to a very high froth ; add a lb. of finely-powdered and 
sifted loaf sugar, i lb. of dried flour, and a wine-glassful of laurel orange- 
flower, or rose water. Mix well together, and do them in long-shaped 
biscuit-moulds lined with greased paper ; glaze the tops, and do them 
in a gentle oven. 



THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



5. AMANDES, ETC, A LA ROY ALE. 

Take \ lb. of either blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio 
nuts ; place them in a slack oven or before the Are to dry ; then mix 
together 6 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a little spinach juice, and the white of 
an egg. Put in your almonds, work them well in the mixture, and 
arrange them in the form of shamrocks or stars on buttered paper. 
Dry them in a cool oven. 

6. CONFITURES A L'EAU-DE-VI E. 

Any fruit that has been properly preserved in sugar may be drained 
fixira the syiup, and placed in wide-mouthed bottles, adding to each Ib- 
of fruit 6 oz. of powdered lump sugar or sugar-candy, and a good half 
pint of the best French pale brandy. 

7. FEARS A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Peel and cut 7 or 8 pears into any shape tliat may be preferred, 
keeping them in cold water to prevent them turning black ; thai put 
them in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, with 2 oz. of 
butter ; sugar to the taste, and boil them till tender ; then brush the peais 
over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle them with sifted sugar, and arrange 
them nicety on a dish. Add \ an oz. of gelatine to the syrup, boil it up 
quickly for about five minutes, strain it over them and let thera remain 
until set The appearance of this dish is much improved if the S)Tup 
is coloured with a little prepared cochineal. 



DECEMBER 1. 

' / axntld exhort Chriilian ■women always to drat with daauy and modtration ; 
nr.fr to go t^ond their circumstaneei, nor asfirt abmie their station, so as lopruludeor 
Under looris of mercy ; nor valiie themidvts on their dress, or despise others more 
meanly habited ; in short, never to spend too much time or thought on the embcllish- 
menteftht body? — Rev. Jamks Fokdyce, D.D. 

PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 

Heat: Pork — Beef— Motion — Venison— House Lamb. 

PouLTBY : Pigeons — Chickens — Fowls — Teal — Capons — Geese — Pollets — Wild 
Docks— Widgeon— Turk eys. 

Game : Pheasants — Woodcock^Harts — Snipe — Partridges — Rabbits. 

Fish : Dace — Carp^Barbel— Brill — Gudgeon — Cod — Eels — Crabs — Hertings — lob- 
sters — Haddock — Shrimps — Oysters — Whiting — Perch — Sprats — Skate — Thom- 
baclc— Soles— Turbot— Pike— Tench. 

Vegetables : Carrots— Potatoes — Broccoli — Cabbages — Celery — Onioiu — Leeks — 
Winter Spinach — Pannips — Tnmips — Scotch Kile. 

FRUITS IN SEASON. 

Crapes — Oranges — Apples — Fears — Chestnuts — Walnuts^ Fflberta — Medlars — 
Crystalliied Preserves — Dried Fruits : Almonds and Raisins — Dates — Figs, etc 



2. Fried Cau 's Livee. and Bacon. | 4. Vegetables. 

I. CWj Head and Shoulders. — Crimped cod may be put on with the 
water hot ; it is safer to put on an entire, unslashed, large piece of cod, 
with the water cold or tepid, unless it has become very firm indeed by 
several days* salting and drying. The thickness of the fish must regu- 
late the time of boiling but <Aout half an hour will suffice. Serve on a 
napkin ; garnish with scraped horseradish or parsley, or both ; surround 
with slices of &ied roe and pieces either of its own or of skate's liver, 
and accompany with oyster sauce It is also eaten with Dutch sauce, 
caper sauce, anchovy sauce, or shrimp sauce. 



340 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Fried Calfs Liver and Bacon. — Slice your liver thin, your bacon 
the same. Fry your bacon first, enough, but not dried up or burnt ; 
set it in a hot dish on your hot iron plate, to keep it from cooling. 
Then fiy your slices of liver. When done, lay on a hot dish a slice 
of bacon and a slice of liver, lapping one over the other alternately, till 
the dish is full. 

To the gravy in your frying-pan put a few slices of lemon-peel ; 
dredge in a little flour ; moisten with a table-spoonful or so of good 
hot stock, and half a glass of white wine, if liked ; season with pepper, 
salt, and lemon-juice ; keep stirring with a fork till all is brown and 
smooth ; remove the lemon-peel, and then pour hot over your liver and 
bacon. A few forcemeat-balls may be laid round this dish. 

3. Potato Fritters. — Slice potatoes very thin ; dip them in a fine 
batter, and fry them ; add lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower 
water to the batter. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. 



DECEMBER 2. 
• Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries,^ — Dr. Franklin. 



1. CoD-FisH Hash. 

2. Broiled Veal Cutlets. 



3. Potato Fritters. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Cod-Fish Hash. — Put in soak over-night a tea-cup of cod-fish 
picked up fine. In the morning boil some potatoes nicely, mash and 
work them until very light Put the fish in the chopping-bowl and 
chop it fine, after which, before taking it from the bowl, mash and work 
it until as fine as possible. Work the potato in little by litde ; work it 
with the potato pounder until five parts of potato are thoroughly in- 
corporated with the fish. This should be so perfectly done that the fish 
can neither be seen nor felt in the mouth separate from the potato. 
Season the hash a little richer than for mashed potatoes ; put it in the 
potato-kettle and heat it, constantly stirripg. Have butter heated in 
the spider, press the hash into it firmly, and cook it gently. When 
brown, turn it out without breaking, and set it in the oven ; it is better, 
however, to leave it in the spider, if not scorching, until it is served. 
Always buy white cod-fish. 

2. Broiled Veal Cutlets. — Procure a few nice cutlets from the best 
end of the neck of veal. Mix well together pepper and salt, mixed 
spices, biscuit raspmgs, and well-chopped thyme, shalots, and parsley. 
Roll your cutlets in this mixture one by one, pressing them into it on 
both sides, so as to make as much of it as possible stick to them ; then 
wrap them, first in very thin slices of bacon, and afterwards in oUed or 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 



341 



buttered paper. Secure the paper with string, and broil the cutlets so 
enveloped on a gridiron over a fire that is not too fierce. Make in a 
saucepan^ with butter, vinegar, and the remainder of your mixed 
dressing, a sauce, to be kept hot till wanted. When the cutlets are 
thoroughly broiled, take off the paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and 
pour the sauce over them. 

3. Potato Fritters, — Boil and scrape fine 2 large potatoes ; beat 4 
yolks and 3 whites of eggs, and add to the above i large spoonful of 
cream, i large spoonful of sweet wine, a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of 
lemon. It will be extremely light, but must be beat half an hour at 
least Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stewpan, and drop a 
spoonful at a time of the batter into it Fry them a light brown and 
serve hot Put the following sauce in a tureen : — ^A glass of white wine, 
the juice of a lemon, a dessertspoonful of peach leaf, or almond water, 
or vanilla, and white pounded sugar warmed together. 



^DECEMBER 8. 

* Whatever purifies^ fortifies also the heart, ^ — Blair. 



1. Fkted Soles. 

2. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc. 



3. American Pancakes. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Fried Soles^ after thorough drying by pressing between the folds of 
a napkin, may be either rubbed in flour, or egged and bread-crumbed, 
or dipped in batter. Let tlie fat in which they are fiied be hot and 
deep. It is absurd, because a sole is thin, to attempt to fry it in scarcely 
enough fat to keep it from sticking to the pan. Fry crisp to a nice 
light brown ; serve on a napkin. Well-fiied soles hardly require any 
sauce ; nevertheless, you may send up with them a little anchovy or 
shrimp sauce. 

2- Veal Sweetbread au Blanc, — Steep a couple of sweetbreads all 
night in cold water ; peel off all their thin outside skin, and set them 
on the fire in a stewpan of cold water. When they are on the point of 
boiling, take them out and blanch them in two cold waters, and then 
return them to the stewpan in the water in which they were previously 
scalded. Add to this a couple of hearts of fine celery, a large onion, 
butter, salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. Afler boiling for half an 
hour, take them out and lay them on a dish on which you have put a 
large bit of butter and a couple of raw ^^ yolks. Now mix in a cup a 
spoonful of flour with half a pint of milk j stir this into the sweetbread 
boilings to make the sauce ; add to it the juice of lemon, and pass it 
through a strainer over your sweetbreads. 



342 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

3. American Pancakes, — Mix i pint of cream, 5 spoonfub of fine 
flour, 5 eggs, and a very little salt Fry the pancakes very thin in 
fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Serve six 
or seven at once. 



DECEMBER 4. 

' Talents are admirable when not made to stand proxy for virtues,^ — Hannar Moke. 

1. Mock Turtle Soup. I 3. Orange PuDDiNa 

2. Calf's Heart, Roasted. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Mock Turtle Soup. — Bespeak a calfs head with the skin on ; cut 
it in hal^ and clean it well ; then half boil it, take o£f all the meat in 
square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some beef 
and veal broth to add to the richness. Fiy some shalot in butter, 
and dredge in flour suflicient to thicken the gravy ; stir this into the 
browning, and give it one or two boils; skim it carefully, and then 
put in the head ; add half a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the 
meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before serving, put in some 
tarragon, chives, basil, parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper to taste, 
one spoonful of say, and two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; squeeze 
the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pout the soup upon it 
Forcemeat-balls and small eggs. More or less wine may be put, 
according to the taste. 

2. dlfs Hearty Roasted. — Wash well; stufif with veal stuffing. 
While roasting, if you have no cold roast veal or beef giavy, baste well 
with butter. When done, with the gravy left in the latch-pan make a 
brown sauce. 

3. Orange Pudding. — ^Take half a pound of melted butter, half a 
pound of sugar, and the yolks of 8 eggs ; mix all well together with 
2 oz. of candied orange ; put pufi" paste all over the dish, and bake half 
an hour : 2 oz. of biscuits may be added. 



DECEMBER 5. 

* There is no better method of moderating suspieions than to provide against them 
as if they were true; yet bridle them as if they were false.'' — Bacon. 



1. Eel A l'Italienne. 

2. Haricoed Mutton. 



3. Batter Pancakes. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Eel h ritalienne. — ^Take a large eel, skinned; cut it into pieces 
three inches long; boil them in white wine and water. Put into a 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 343 

saucepan a good lump of butter, with shalots and mushrooms minced 
very fine, and seasoned with salt and peppercorns. When it begins to 
heat, add two spoonfuls of good stock or gravy, and the liquor in which 
the eel was boiled. When this sauce is sufficiently reduced, arrange 
the pieces of eel on a dish, and pour it over them boiling hot The 
flesh of eels being oily and viscous, they should be thoroughly cooked 
and rather highly seasoned (in whatever way they are dressed), to 
prevent their causing indigestion. 

2. Haricotd Mutton, — Cut up a breast or a neck of mutton inta 
pieces ; brown them with butter in a stewpan over a brisk fire ; when 
nicely ^7/, take them out and drain. Feel and slice some turnips, and 
fiy them also to a light brown on both sides; put them into your 
banco; moisten with broth, adding pepper, salt, parsley, onions, 
cloves, and bay leaf Stew for half an hour, and tzJce off the fat If 
the sauce is too thin, reduce it by boiling. Pile your harico in the 
middle of the dish, and lay the turnips round it The turnips in the 
harico may be replaced by salsify, potatoes, or carrots. Mutton is 
converted into Mock Venison by marinading with wine, vinegar, spice, 
and aromatic herbs. 

3. Batter Pancakes, — ^Beat up 3 eggs with 4 large table-spoonfuls of 
flour ; add half a pint of milk, or as much as will make the batter the 
consistency of cream, and a little salt; fiy in lard or butter; grate 
sugar over the top of each, and serve directly with a lemon. 



DECBMBER 6. 

• I call education^ not that which is made up of shreds and patches of useless arts^ bttt 
that which inculcates principles^ polishes taste, regulates temper, culiivates reason, stdh 
dues the passions^ directs the feelings, habituates to reflection, trains to self-denial ; and 
mare especially that which refers all actions, feelings, sentiments, tastes, and passions to 
the lave and fear of God, ' — Hannah More. 



1. Kidney Soup. 

2. Roast Snipes. 

3. Beefsteak Pudding. 



4. Plum-Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. Kidney Soup, — One bullock's kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 
turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been 
boiled. 

Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney; 
put it over the fire, and when half done, take out the kidney and cut 
it into pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, 
and the same of carrots, all cut small, and 9. bunch of sweet herbs tied 



344 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt Let it boil slowly 
for five or six hours^ adding the ketchup. When done, take out the 
herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all 
soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 

2. I^oast Snipes. — Pluck and wipe them very clean outside; trass 
them, with the legs close to the body, the feet pressing upon the thighs ; 
skin the head and neck, and bring the beak round imder the wing. 
They must be trussed without being drawn. Tie a thin layer of bacon 
over them ; put 3 or 4 of them, skewered, on to a spit or jack, and 
roast before a clear fire for about a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes ; 
baste continually with butter, with some bread toasted and buttered, 
placed underneath for the trail to drop on. \Vhen the birds are nicely 
floured and frothed, cut the toast in quarters; put the birds on it, 
with the bills outwards. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour some 
good brown gravy round the dish. Be particular in basting that die 
butter should drip on to the toast and trail, as it is considered a deli- 
cacy. A piece of toast, with the trail equally spread on it, should be 
placed under each burd, and served with it to each person. 

3. Beefsteak Pudding, — Rub ^ lb. of dripping, or lard, or suet into i^ 
lbs. of flour, with a pinch of salt, and make it into a stiff paste with as 
little water as possible ; then, having greased the inside of your basin, 
lay a thin crust over the same, except just the bottom, as it will else 
absorb all the gravy ; now have ready some pieces of steak or beef- 
skirt, well seasoned with pepper and salt ; put a piece of fat at the 
bottom, then lay in all your meat ; after which, pour in about a tea- 
cupful of broth or water, then moisten the edges of the crust round the 
basin, and lay on a cover of the remainder of the paste, pinching the 
two edges together ; dip your cloth in hot water, flour it well, and tie 
it tightly over the pudding. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water ; 
make it boil up quickly, and keep it boiling from three to four hours. 

4. Plum- Pudding, — An excellent pudding can be made fiom the 
following ingredients : — Half a lb. of flour, \ lb. of grated bread, a lb. of 
currants well washed and dried, a lb. of raisins well stoned and cut, the 
peel of a lemon finely chopped, i^ oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 
2 oz. of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and 
citron peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, and 3 wine-glasses 
of brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as neces- 
sary to make the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped 
mould for eight hours. 

Sauce for Plum-Pudding, — Into \ pint of thick melted butter put a 
table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-syrup, 2 glasses of Madeira and one of Curagoa ; stir 
all well together, and pour it quite hot over the pudding. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 345 



DECEMBER 7. 

' In such a world so thorny , and where none 
Finds happiness unblighted ; or, if founds 
Without some thistly sorrow at its side. 
It seems the part ofwisdom, and no sin 
Against the laws of love, to measure lots 
With less distinguished than ourselves, that thus 
We may with patience bear our moderate ills. 
And sympathize with others suffering more,"* — CoWPER. 



1. Perch. 

2. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardi- 

niere. 



3. Hasty Fritters. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Perch, — Scale (which is a troublesome operation with perch, ren- 
dering the fishmonger's assistance acceptable) and empty them. Mari- 
nade them several hours in a mixture of olive oil, parsley, pepper, salt, 
and sweet herbs minced very fine. When wanted, smear them with 
^%j and sprinkle them well with a mixture of grated crumb of stale 
bread and fine-minced sweet herbs. Broil them over a gentle fire 
until thoroughly done and nicely yellow-browned on both sides. If 
any sauce is served with them it should be of the simplest, as a little 
lemon-juice, or oiled butter with a dash of vinegar. 

2. Mutton Cutlets d la Jardiniire. — Boil in stock or good mutton 
broth some fresh haricots, green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, all sorts of 
roots cut into short lengths or punched into shapes, with a few mush- 
rooms. When cooked, throw them into a stewpan in which you have 
made a roux^ and let them simmer. Meanwhile, fry your cutlets in 
butter ; arrange them on a hot dish, and pour over them your ragout of 
vegetables. Of course, you can only employ such vegetables as take 
the same time to cook; any others must be cooked apart, as also 
should potatoes, if used. 

3. Hasty Fritters. — ^Take \ pint of ginger beer, and stir into it by 
degrees as much floiu: as will make it a stiff batter ; put in a few currants 
or chopped apples ; beat up quickly, and fiy in butter ; drop a large 
spoonful for each into the pan, taking care that they do not stick 
together ; turn them, and when of a fine brown, lay on a dish, and 
strew sugar over. 




346 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DECEMBER 8. 

' To preserve sobriety will require the unremitted exercise of prudence, vigilance^ and 
severe eircumspection,* — Rev. Jamks Fordyce, D.D. 

1. Eels A LA Ta&tare. I 3. Snow Pancakes. 

2. Hashed Mutton. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Eds i la Tartare, — ^Take a couple of middle-sized eels; skin and 
clean them ; cut oflf the heads and the thinnest part of the tail-ends ; 
score or crimp the fish at equal distances along their length, as if you 
were going to joint an oxtaiL Powder the slashes in the eels with 
parsley and chives minced very fine. Tie the eels together in such a 
way that between them they shall form a ring or circle. Put a lump of 
butter into a stewpan, with carrots and onions sliced, paisley, and bay 
leaf. After they have had a turn or two in the heated butter, add salt 
and peppercorns, and dilute with white wine and water. When this 
liquor is cooked enough, strain it, and then put your circle of eel to 
boil in it When half done, take it out and let it cooL When cold, 
wet it with your sauce, and dust it with bread-crumbs. Smear it again 
with beat-up ^g% seasoned with pepper and salt, and sprinkle more 
bread-crumbs over it; then broil it on a gridiron over a gentle fire. 
When done, put it on a hot dish, and pour tartar sauce into the middle 
of the circle. 

2. Hashed Mutton, — Cut the least done parts of cold roast mutton 
into small neat slices, trimming off any skin or brown outside, especially 
if the latter is burnt in the least Dust these slices on each side with 
flour, pepper, and salt Fry a few sliced onions; when brown, put 
them in your stewpan with a little broth. Crush in a tea-cup half a 
pickled walnut widi a dessert-spoonful of Harvey's sauce and half a 
glass of red wine ; stew these together till the onions are reduced quite 
to a pulp, then withdraw the stewpan from the fire, put in the sliced 
mutton, and let it simmer very gently for half an hour. If it boil up, 
the mutton will be hard. 

By omitting the pickled walnut, putting in a table-spoonful of currant 
jelly instead, and adding a bouquet of thyme, basil, and marjoram, and 
seasoning a little more highly with spice and wine, you will have very 
good Mock Hashed Venison, 

3. Snow Pancakes, — Beat up \ lb. of flour in milk till you have a 
stiff batter; add a spoonful of salt, quarter of a nutmeg grated 
Divide the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each 
portion add 3 table-spoonfiils of pure snow. Fry in fresh butter, when 
they will be found as light as though eggs had been used. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 347 



DECEMBER 9. 

' Love one another, pray oft together, and see 
You never both tocher angry be: 
If 07U speak fire, f other with water come: 
Is one provoked f be f other soft and dumbj* — PHILIP Henry, 



1. Tench. 

2. Roast Leg OF Mutton. 

3. Woodcocks and Snipes. 



4. Boiled Orange Pudding. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. Tanch. — Prepare and pickle the fish. Set it on the fire, in a 
mixture, just enough to cover it, of half good veal broth and half red 
wine, cold, with a few peppercorns, the rind of half a lemon, and a 
sprig of parsley and sweet marjoram. When the boiling point is 
reached let it simmer slowly, taking care the fish do not break. When 
done, transfer it to an oval dish ; garnish it round with alternate bits of 
toasted bread and slices of lemon. Remove the bouquet and lemon- 
peel firom the gravy. Thicken it with a bit of butter worked in flour; 
season to taste with salt, or with a tea-spoonfiil of anchovy sauce, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Boil up^ and pour over the fish. 

3. Woodcocks and Snipes. — These birds should be roasted by the aid 
of a jack or burd-spit, the thighs closely secured to the body by an iron 
skewer. Let them be well basted, and have a bright fire ; place toast 
under them to receive the trails. Twenty minutes' roasting is sufficient 
for woodcocks, a quarter of an hour for snipes. Serve with lemon-juice 
and soluble cayenne. 

4. Boiled Orcmge Pudding. — ^Beat the grated rind of 2 Seville oranges 
in a mortar to paste ; put \ lb. of Naples biscuits into i pint of cream ; 
mix this with tiie orange paste ; add sugar to taste, and 5 well-beaten 
^[gs ; mix all together with a pinch of salt ; tie in a floured pudding- 
doth, and put in a pan of boiling water : an hour will boil it Serve 
with sweet sauce. 




348 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DHCHMBER 10. 

' We overstate the ills of life, and take 
Imagination, given us to bring down 
The choirs of shining angels, overshone 
By God's clear glory, — dawn our earth, to rake 
The dismal snows instead: flake following flake^ 
To cover all the com. We walk upon 
The shadows of hills, across a level thrown. 
And pant like climbers. Near the alder brake 
We sigh so loud, the nightingale within 
Refuses to sing loud, as else she would, ^ 

— ^Mrs. E. Barrett Brownik& 



1. Broiled Carp. 

2. Roast Turkey. 

3. Tongue. 



4. Apple Soufflee. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Broiled Carp, — ^When your fish is scaled, emptied, and wiped 
thoroughly dry, smear it with a little oil, and lay it on the gridiron. 
When done, you may serve it either on a bed of sorrel, or with caper 
sauce, or with a mattre-d'hdtel sauce, or simply with oil and vinegar. 
Either way, it is light and digestible. 

2. Roast Turkey, — If the weather be very cold, a turkey will hang 
for a week, and will prove to be all the better, however young it may 
be ; but take great care not to let it be the least thing gone. Pluck, 
draw, and singe it with care ; wash and wipe the outside well, and pom- 
water through the inside. Fill the breast with sausage meat, seasoned 
with minced herbs, lemon-peel, mace, and cayenne. Truss the bird, 
roast it at a clear fire, baste constantly with butter, and serve it when 
done with brown gravy and bread sauce. A Chain of fried sausages is 
often placed roimd a turkey. 

3. Tongue, — Soak it all night before using, and be careful to wash 
out the salt which is put into .various crevices to preserve it. Boil it in 
plenty of water from two hours and a half to three hours. Remove the 
skin before sending it to table, and garnish with parsley. 

4. Afple Soufflee, — ^Ten or 12 large apples, peel of half a lemon, whites 
of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, half a pound of puflf paste. Well-butter 
the outside of a tin or pie-dish, cover it with good puff paste, and bake 
it a nice light colour. When done, take out the dish carefully, and fill 
the inside of the paste with 10 or 12 large apples, 3 oz. of pounded 
sugar, and the peel of half a lemon stewed until perfectly soft. AVhisk 
the whites of 4 eggs very stiff, pile it on the apples, strew sifted sugar 
over it, and brown it lightly in a gentle oven. Serve hot, with a napkin 
round it 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 



349 



DECEMBER 11. 
In the home of the good the angel of hope is never absent,^ — ^Bentley. 



1. Soup A LA Cantatrice. 

2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 



3. Swiss Apple Pudding. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Soup h la Cafiiairice. — Having washed 3 oz. of sago in boiling 
water, add it gradually with a large lump of sugar (i bay leaf, if liked) 
to 2 quarts of nearly boiling medium stock seasoned to the taste. 
Simmer till well dissolved, which will be in about half an hour. To 
half a pint of boiling cream add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten ; stir 
it quickly in the soup, but do not let the soup boil (or the eggs will 
curdle), and serve at once. 

Medium Stock for the above, — ^Buy 4 lbs. of the knuckle of veal, or 
4 lbs. of the shin of beef (or, if preferred, 2 lbs. of each), and a \ lb. 
of lean bacon or ham, and 3 lbs. of bones. Cut the meat and ham 
into pieces about three inches square; rub 2 oz. of butter on the 
bottom of the stewpan ; put in half a pint of water, the meat and bones, 
with any trimmings of fresh meat or poultry that may be in the house, 
half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, 2 oz. of salt, i large blade of mace, 
3 lumps of sugar, i bunch of savoury herbs, i head of celery, 2 large 
onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, and 3 carrots. Cover the 
stewpan, place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents; 
add 4 quarts of cold water when the bottom of the pan is covered with 
a jelly-like pale substance: do not let it boil at all, but let it very 
gently sinuner for five hours, removing all scum while it is doing, and 
strain when done through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of 
almost all soups, the vegetables or flavouring being varied as required. 

2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. — In wmter a small family may ensure a 
variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in half; hang the 
knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness, sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section 
in the meat These slices are to be dressed in the pan; two tea- 
cupfuls of water, and one of Harvey's, Reading, Lopresti's, or any 
favourite sauce, with a small portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and 
two drops of garlic vinegar. 

3. Swiss Apple Pudding, — ^Alternate layers of sliced apples and sugar, 
with a thin layer of rusk, pounded and soaked in milk ; finish with 
powdered rusks; pour melted butter »over; grate sugar over before 
serving. 



35© THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 



DECEMBER 12. 

* Works of ingenuity and elegance are particularly becomings and the study of 
them ought to enter into female education as much as possible,* — Rev. James 

FORDYCE, D.D. 

1. Stuffed Carp. I 3. Apple and Bread Pudding. 

2. Roast Sucking Pig. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Stuffed Carp. — Chop fine some button mushrooms, together with 
parsley, chives, and a couple of small onions ; toss them in a saucepan 
over a brisk fire with a little butter. If the caip has any roe, it should 
be mixed up with the above. Take it off the fire, and mix therewith 
minced hard egg yolks, chopped anchovy, pepper, and salt Scale and 
empty your carp, and split it open along the belly ; put your stuffing in, 
and sew it up again. Oil a sheet of paper, wrap your carp in it, and 
lay it on the gridiron over a moderate fire. When thoroughly done, 
remove the paper and serve the carp on a hot oval dish, with a good 
lump of butter well worked up with minced parsley, pepper, salt, and ' 
lemon-juice. 

2. Koast Sucking Fig. — ^When the pig is properly prepared and 
cleaned by the butcher, cut off the feet and make a stuffing of chopped 
sage, crumbs of bread, butter, pepper, and salt, according to your taste 
and judgment, but let the bread be the principal ingredient ; fill the 
inside of the pig with the stuffing, and sew up the slit Baste with 
butter ; it will require from two to three hours' roasting, according to 
the size. The skin should be nicely browned and crisp. Before 
sending it to table, split it down the back from head to tail, and lay it 
with the skin side uppermost fiat in the dish. The head is cut 0% and 
a half laid at each end. Take out the brains, and having previously 
boiled the liver, chop it up with the brains and mix them together with 
veal or beef gravy in a small tureen. Apple sauce as for pork. 

3. Apple and Bread Pudding. — Pare and cut apples as for a pie, put 
a little sugar to them, cover and set them in a moderate oven till they 
begin to soften ; then take them out, and when nearly cold cover well 
with bread that has been soaked in wann milk, or set the bread and 
milk (covered with a plate) in a moderate oven till the bread has 
absorbed the milk. An egg or two may be added to the milk, but it 
is vety wholesome and good without eggs. Any kind of firesh fruit may 
be used in the same way. 




BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 351 



DECEMBER IS. 

• You have received from the Almighty your bodies and your souls unstained by 
dishonour; you will be soon required to restore them immaculate,^ — Rev. James 
FORDYCS, D.D. 



X. PiKS A LA GeNEVAISE. 

2. Roast Beef. 



3. Christmas PuDDiNa 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Pike d la Genevaise. — Boil the fish in a court bouillon made with 
all sorts of aromatic herbs, and serve with sauce prepared as follows : 
Make a roux with butter and flour ; moisten with the court bouillon, 
with chopped mushrooms, parsley leaves, and green onions; strain 
after stewing well, mix with it essence of anchovy and lemon-juice, and 
pour hot over the fish. 

2. Roctst Beef, — Begin by hanging it at a distance from the fire, 
bringing it nearer when about half or three parts done. For the time of 
roasting, the general and approximate rule is a quarter of an hour for 
each pound of meat ; but much will depend on the brightness and also 
the mass of the fire, the weather, and other circumstances. Continual 
basting must be observed from the beginning to the end of the opera- 
tion ; dredging with flour is a matter of choice. 

3. Christmas Pudding, — ^Take 10 crackers, break them up into a 
quart of milk, leaving them over-night, and the next morning rub them 
through the colander. Beat up 8 eggs, i lb. sugar, i cup of molasses, 
I cup of brandy, i lb. suet, i table-spoonful of salt, i nutmeg, i spoon- 
fiil of cloves, half a spoonful of mace, the rind of one lemon and juice, 
\ lb. of citron cut thin, i lb. currants, and i^ lb. raisins stoned. Boil 
five hours, and serve with brandy or rich wine sauce. 

DECEMBER 14: 

* Home is where the heart can bloom, '—Charles Swain. 



1. Salmon Steaks. 

2. Stewed Giblets. 

3. Ribs of Beef. 



4. Apple Pudding with 

ImiREAM. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. Salmon Steaks, — Cut the fish completely across, in slices about an 
inch thick. Dry them well between the folds of a napkin. If for 
fiying, they may be dusted with flour, which can be spread evenly over 
their surface with a feather; if for grilling, they can be seasoned with 
the slightest sprinkling of pepper and salt In the latter case, the 
turning must be adroitly performed with steak-tongs. Either anchovy 
or caper sauce goes well with salmon steaks. 



352 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Stewed Giblets, — Having scalded and picked them, cut them in 
pieces, wash tliem clean, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of 
scrag of veal ; cover them with water, and let them boil up ; then take 
off the scum quite clean, and add 3 onions, 2 turnips, i carrot, and a 
little th3rme and parsley ; stew them till they are tender, and strain them 
through a sieve ; wash the giblets clean from the herbs, etc Now take 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, put it into a saucepan with a large 
spoonful of flour, and stir it about till it is well mixed and smooth ; 
then put in the broth and giblets, stew them for a quarter of an hour, 
season with salt and a little pepper, and just before you serve them up 
chop a handful of green parsley, and put it in. Give it a boil up, and 
serve them in a tureen. 

3. Ribs of Beef, — Ribs of beef maybe boned (the butcher will mostly 
save the cook this trouble), rolled, tied round with a string, and so 
roasted in a solid lump, which is convenient for carving, and also more 
presentable cold ; but it is questionable whether boned joints of meat 
are quite so juicy and succulent as those in which the bones are allowed 
to remaia In the former case, however, the bones render service by 
helping to make stock broth. ' 

4. Apple Pudding with Cream, — Grate 4 large apples ; add \ lb. of 
Naples biscuits grated, a little powdered cinnamon, -j^ a pint of cream, 
sugar to taste, a little salt, and 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out half 
the whites. Bake with a crust round edge of dish ; when done, sift 
powdered sugar over. 

DECEMBER 1& 

• Woman* s right and proper influence, her legitimate and best power, is that 0/ kind- 
ness, gentleness, devoted affection. It is tike that of the great sun in the heavens, or of 
the earth on which we live — the influence of attraction ; and this, wdl and perseveringiy 
employed, may prove almost, if not altogether, irresistible,^ — Rev. Charles Cook. 



1. GiBLET Soup. 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. 



3. Ground Rice Cream. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Giblet Soup, — Swan giblets are the best, then goose, turkey, then 
duck and fowl For water birds, the pinion should be chopped in two 
across, the feet scalded, removing the outer skin and claws. For all, 
cut the neck into short pieces ; split the head, removing the eyes and 
beak ; divide the livers into two, and gizzards, well cleaned and peeled of 
the hard, white skin, into 4 pieces. Stew these tender, and then pro- 
ceed exactly as oxtaiL If you make your stock of the bones or remains 
of poultry, all the better. You may season rather highly with herbs 
and spice, as there is no fear of overpowering the giblet flavour. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 353 

2. Stewed Brisket of Beef, — Put a piece of brisket of beef, say of 
4 lbs. weight, into a saucepan with a good lump of dripping or butter ; 
brown it well all over, then pour in as much water as will nearly cover 
the meaty and, closing the lid tight, stew it gently for three hours, 
taking care that the meat does not bum to the pot, which may be pre- 
vented by putting a small plate beneath it. Boil a carrot, 2 turnips, 
and a few very small onions in another saucepan, just before you intend 
to serve up the dinner ; take a cupfid of the liquor and mix in it 2 good 
table-spoonfuls of flour, some pepper and salt, and a little ketchup ; 
turn this, with the onions and the carrot, and the turnips cut in small 
squares, into the pot with the meat, and shaking it well up, boil all 
together for a few minutes, when it will be ready. Should the beef be 
fat, the gravy will require skimming, which must be done before you 
add the thickening. 

3. Ground Rice Cream, — Four table-spoonfuls of ground rice, yolks 
of 4 eggs, whites of 2, i pint of new milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Mix 4 
table-spoonfiils of ground rice very smooth with a spoonful or two of 
milk, add the yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and the whites of 2 ; sweeten 
it to taste, or add about 2 oz. of pounded sugar ; boil a pint of milk, 
pour it over the rice and eggs, boil it three minutes, and put it into a 
mould. When turned out, serve it with either custard, preserves, or 
whipped cream over it. 



DECEMBER 16. 

* Our firesides must he our sanctuaries, our refuges from misfortune, our choice 

retreat from all the world.'' — Goldsmith. 

1. Collared Eel. I 3. Apple Snow. 

2. Boiled Beef. | 4. Vegetables. 

1. Collared Eel. — Bone a large eel, but do not skin it ; mix mace, 
albpice, pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder, and rub 
over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind it with a coarse tape. 
Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep 
the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped 
sage, parsley, a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with 
the spices, greatly improve the taste. Eels, if small, should be curled 
round and fried, being first dipped into ^gg and bread-crumbs. 

2. Boiled Beef. — For private families, beef will be quite enough 
salted in from four days to a week. First rub it with pounded salt- 
petre, to give the scarlet tinge to the inside. Too much must not be 
used, for fear of turning the meat hard ; half an oz. will do for a joint of 

from 7 to 8 lbs. Then lay the beef in your salting-pan, and cover it 

z 



3S4 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

completely with common salt well heaped over it Turn the meat every 
day, and ladle it with the brine which forms in the dish. Beef so 
salted is more delicate than when plunged into a ready-made brine ; 
which, however, has its advantages when several pieces are salted at 
once, as well as in hot weather, when flies are troublesome. The 
addition of sugar for salting beef is a matter of taste ; it is usually re- 
served for meat intended to be dried, hung, or smoked. Miss Acton 
very correctly observes: ^Saltpetre hardens and rendeis the meat 
indigestible ; sugar, on the contrary, mellows and improves it much.' 
The one flatters the eye, the other suits the stomach. 

3. AppU Snow, — Half a pound of the pulp of baked apples, \ lb. 
pounded loaf sugar, a pinch of pounded alum, the whites of 3 eggs, 
and the juice of half a lemon, beat with a wire whisk until quite white 
and stiff. May be used for garnishing custards or trifles, or makes a 
pretty dish itself. 



DECEMBER 17. 

* In her husbantPs sickness she feels more grief than she shows,' — Fuller. 



1. Pike, Plain Boiled. 

2. Hashed Widgeon. 

3. Stewed Rump-steak. 



4. Iced Chocolats Creau. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Pike, Plain Boiled, — If served whole, after scaling and emptying 
the belly, sins' it with veal stufiing, and sew the belly up again. Tie the 
head and tail together by means of string passed through the eye-holes, 
so as to bend the fish into the form of a circle. If there be any milt or 
roe, it may either be boiled plain and served in the centre of the circular 
fish, or mixed up with the stufling. Pike is a fish which requires 
thorough boiling, especially when stuffed. A 5 or 6 lbs. fish will take 
about half an hour's boiling. Serve on a napkin ; garnish with parsley, 
and send up with anchovy sauce. 

2. Hashed Widgeon. — Cut the birds into joints; mix the juice of 3 
Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfiils of Reading or home-made sauce» 
a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke 
bottoms broken into bits ; see that you have enough to cover the flesh, 
adding a little more of each liquid if necessary; make it boil, and, ten 
minutes before the hash is required, put in the meat, and let it simmer 
gently for that time. 

3. Stewed Rump-steak. — ^At the bottom of a stewpan put a layer of 
sliced carrots, onions, and any other vegetables to taste, together with a 
bouquet complete. Moisten with just enough stock to keep them firom 
burning. On these lay your steaks ; cover close with the lid, and let 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 355 

them stew very slowly for several hours, until quite tender; stirring 
occasionally, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. You may 
serve the gravy with it, either just as it comes from the stewpan, or you 
may treat it as directed for stewing the loin. 

4, Iced Chocolate Cream, — Half a pint of strong-made chocolate, i 
pint of milk, yolks of 8 eggs, \ a, pint of thick cream, ^ a lb. of loaf 
sugar. Make a pint of milk very hot, sweetened with ^ a lb. of loaf 
sugar; then stir carefully into it the yolks of 8 well-beaten eggs and ^ 
a pint of strong-made chocolate. Put it into a jug, stand it in boiling 
water over a clear fire, and stir it one way until the eggs are set in the 
milk, but do not let it boil ; then strain it through a fine silk or hair 
sieve, and stir into it about ^ a pint of thick cream. Freeze and mould 
it as other iced creams. 

— — 

DECEMBER 18. 

*^ot many lives, but only om, have we: 
How sacred should that one life ever be ! 
Day after day filled up with blessed toil. 
Hour after hour still bringing in new spoil, ^ — Dr. H. BonAR. 



1. Hare Soup. 

2. Woodcocks and Snipes. 

3. Beefsteak Pie. 



4. Chocolate Cream. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Hare Soup, — One hare, \\ lbs. of gravy beef, i lb. of bones, a slice 
of lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, a spoonful of soy, a 
little cayenne, salt, and 2 quarts of water. 

Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it into a large jar with i^ lbs. of 
gravy beef, i lb. of bones well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon, i onion, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it 2 quarts of water, and 
cover the jar well over with ladder and paper ; set it in a kettle of 
boiling water, and let it simmer till the hare is stewed to rags. Strain 
o£f the gravy, add an anchovy cut into small pieces, a spoonful of soy, 
with a little cayenne and salt Serve a few forcemeat-balls in the tureen. 

2. Woodcocks and Snipes. — ^These birds should be roasted by the aid 
of a jack, or bird-spit, the thighs closely secured to the body by an iron 
skewer ; let them be well basted, and have a bright fire ; place toast 
under them to receive the trails. Twenty minutes' roasting is sufficient 
for woodcocks, a quarter of an hour for snipes. Serve with lemon- 
juice and soluble cayenne. 

3. Beefsteak Pie, — Invert a cupfiil of highly-seasoned stock in the 
middle of your pie-dish. Cut the steaks into pieces of convenient size 
for serving to each person, or less than that rather than larger. Dust 
them on each side with flour, pepper, and salt Arrange them in the 



3s6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



dish, intermingling with them a small proportion of fat A few pieces 
of veal, with 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs in quarters, make an agreeable 
variety in the contents of the pie. Pour over these a little well-seasoned 
stock ; cover with a good stout crust, and bake thoroughly. 

4. Chocolate Cream, — One bar of chocolate, \\ pints of cream, yolks 
of 5 eggs, I table-spoonful and a half of good moist sugar. 

Break a bar of chocolate into small pieces, and pour over them a pint 
and a half of cream ; let it remain until it is dissolved, and then boil it 
slowly for ten minutes. Well-beat the yolks of 5 eggs with a spoonful 
and a half of good moist sugar, mix it with the cream, and pour it into 
cups. Stand them in a stewpan of boiling water, which must only cover 
half way to the edge of the cup, and let them remain simmering twenty 
minutes with the cover of the stewpan kept on. When done, place 
them in a very cold place. Milk may be used instead of cream if a less 
expensive cream is required. 






DECEMBER 19. 
^ Judge before friendship; then confide till deatV — ^YOUNO. 

3. Ratafia Cream. 



1. Fish Stew. 

2. GiBLET Pie. 



4. Vegetables. 



1. Fish Stew, — ^Take cod, mullet, whiting, turbot, or any other fish 
you like ; cut them cross-ways, in pieces from 2 oz. to a ^ of a lb. each. 
Slice 2 good-sized onions, and place them in a stewpan large enough 
to contain all the fish at the bottom ; a shallow pan is best. Add 2 
table-spoonfuls of olive oil ; fry the onions a light brown ; put in the 
fish with as much warm water as will cover them well, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, \ a tea-spoonful of pepper, \ a bay leaf, the flesh of ^ a peeled 
lemon cut in dice, 2 tomatoes cut in slices and their seeds removed 
(when no ripe tomatoes are to be had, bottled tomato sauce will do), 2 
small glasses of sherry or other white wine, a few peppercorns, and \ a 
clove of garlic. Set on a fierce fire, and boil very fast for twelve minutes, 
or till the liquor is reduced to one-third. Then add a table-spoonful 
of chopped parsley \ let it boil one minute longer, and pour it into a 
dish over slices of bread. 

2. Gibld Pie. — A^tt very nicely cleaning duck or goose giblets, 
stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not 
enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks at 
bottom. Strain the liquor off the stew and bake with the above ; and 
when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. 
Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 357 



3. Ratafia Cream, — Six bay leaves^ i quart of new milk, a little 
essence of ratafia, yolks of 4 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of cream, sugar to taste. 
Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with 6 bay leaves and a little 
ratafia. When it has boiled up, take out the leaves, beat up the yolks 
of 4 eggs with 4 spoonfuls of cream, and add sugar to your taste. Stir 
it into the ratafia cream to thicken it, and set it over the fire to get hot, 
without allowing it to boiL Keep stirring it all the time one way^ or it 
may curdle, and then pour it into a glass dish to serve when cold. 

DECEMBER 20. 

* What if the head^ the eye^ or ear repined 
To serve^ mere engines to the ruling mindt 
Just as absurd for any part to claim 
To he another in the general frame ; 
yust as absurd to mourn the task or pains 
7^ great directing Mind of all ordains J* — Pope. 



1. Winter Pea Soup. 

2. Wild Ducks. 



3, Coffee Cream. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Winter Pea Soup, — Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have 
boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 
2 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs ; let it 
simmer slowly for three hours ; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add 
spice to your taste before warming up for use. 

2. Wild Ducks. — ^A brisk fire is necessary for roasting these birds ; 
baste and dredge them well ; allow twenty minutes for cooking, if you 
desire to have them full of gravy. Serve with gravy sauce, to which a 
chopped shalot and the juice of a Seville orange have been added. 

3. Coffee Cream. — One large cupful of made coffee, 4 oz. of sugar, ^ 
of a pint of milk^ yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of gelatine. 



DECEMBER 21. 

• Happy the girl who sees a God employed 
In all the good and ill that chequers /j^.*— CoWPER. 



I. Julienne Soup. 

2. GiGOTAUjUS. 

3, GiBLET Pie. 



4. Omelet Soufflee. 

5. Vegetables. 



I. Julienne Soup. — Cut into very fine, narrow strips, carrots, turnips, 
parsnips, cabbage, celery, leeks, potatoes, onions, each in equal quantity. 
Chop some lettuce, chervil, and sorrel. You may add (chopped small, 



358 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



or in long narrow strips) the green tops of asparagus, green kidney 
beans, green peas (whole) ; in short, whatever vegetables are in season. 
Mix these^ and put them all together in a stewpan with a good lump 
of butter and a little sugar and salt Cover them close, and let them 
stew a few minutes ; then add your broth, and boil till all the vegetables 
are thoroughly done. It is not usual to put bread, either in crusts or 
toasted dice, into julienne soup. Machines or choppers are sold for 
cutting the vegetables for this wholesome dish ; they can also be pur- 
chased preserved dry. 

N.B. — When a soup, of whatever kind, strikes you as particularly 
agreeable to the palate, it is often owing to the unsuspected presence 
of a very slight dust of sugar. 

2. Gigot aujus, — ^Put a nice leg of mutton into your stewpan, with 8 
large carrots cut in slices, 12 onions, a calf s foot, or a lb. of knuckle of 
veal, and a little salt Cover all with water, and let it simmer over a 
gentle fire. When the mutton begms to shrink from the bone, and is 
about half done, take it out of the stewpan. Let the rest boil, until it 
is reduced to about 3 pints ; then strain it through a napkin or a sieve, 
pressing the vegetables and veal a little hard. Let it cool to a jelly, 
and take oflf the fat It is better to prepare the dish thus fiar the day 
before it is wanted. Replace the leg of mutton in the stewpan with 
the gravy jelly. Let it boil, close covered, not too fest, a couple of 
hours, taking care to prevent its burning or sticking to the bottom of 
the pan. Serve in a deep dish with the gravy, which will be concen- 
trated and highly flavoured, garnishing the edge with slices of lemon. 

In the north of England, hot mutton (roast especially) is often 
accompanied by cold ham ; and the association is far from disagreeable. 

3. Gibld Pie. — ^Two sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderately- 
sized pie. Let these be properly cleaned and half stewed. Cut the liver 
into 3 pieces, the gizzard into 4, and divide the neck into joints; 
separate the feet from the legs ; strain off the liquor, and put both that 
and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate allowance of 
pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same by a piece of rump- 
steak the size of the bottom of your pie-dish ; arrange the gizzards, etc., 
etc. over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupflil of veal stock, cover with 
puff paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half. The liquor 
from the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the 
fat ; thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, and add the juice of a lemon ; boil this up, and when the pie 
is sufficiently baked, strain it through a fine sieve ; make a hole in the 
crust, pour in the liquor, replace the paste you have removed, smear the 
top with the yolk of an egg, and set the pie before the fire for a few 
minutes. This is an admirable dish hot or cold. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 359 

4. OmeUt Soufflee. — Break 6 fresh eggs, separate the whites from the 
yolks, add to the latter 3 spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a spoonful of 
rice flour, and a little orange flower water; stir these well together. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them to the yolks. 
Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, rather more than half full ; 
bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. When done, turn it on a 
dish, and serve quickly. This omelet must be clear, and shake like a 
jeUy. 



DECEMBER 22. 

* Where is to-morrow ? in another world. 
For numbers this is certain : the reverse 
Is sure to none. And yet on this ^^ perhaps^* 
This ** peradventure^"* infamous for lies. 
As on a rock of adamant we build 
Our mountain hopes; spin out eternal schemes. 
As we the fated sisters could outspin, 
Andy big with lifers futurities, expire? — ^YOUNG. 



X. Whtte Potato Soup. 
2. Roast Hare. 



3. Omelette Souffles. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. White Fataio 57»^.— Cut a moderately-sized breast of mutton into 
small pieces, and put them into 3 quarts of water ; make it boil ; skim 
it carefully, and season the broth with salt and pepper to your taste : 
peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes and 3 
turnips j slice up 4 onions ; chop up three heads of celeiy, and throw 
these into the broth, with a libend handful of sweet herbs. Some cooks 
will add three leeks ; but, with onions already in use, these Cambrian 
insignia are unnecessary. Let all stew for four hours and a half over a 
low fire; strain ofi* the Uquor; take out the mutton, and force as much 
of the vegetable as possible through a sieve with a wooden spooQ. 
Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in ^ pint of cream ; stir all well 
together, and warm it up for sending to table. 

2. Roast Hare. — In the west of England — and in no part of the world 
is good living better understood — 2, hare, after being properly stufled, 
is basted for the first seven mmutes with strong salt and water ; a fresh 
dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, in which about \ lb. 
of butter has been dissolved. The animal is dredged with flour occa- 
sionally; and it is calculated by cooks who pursue this plan, that; 
when die eyes start from the sockets, the hare is fit to be sent to table. 

3. OtmUtte Soufflie. — ^Yolks of 7 eggs, whites of 8, \ lb. of sugar, 2 
dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a flavouring of vanilla. 

Beat the yolks of 7 eggs with 2 spoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth in 



36o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

a spoonful of milk ; add \ lb. of powdered sugar and a flavouring of 
vanilla. Well-beat all these together, and stir lightly in the whites of 
8 eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Put the soufflee in the centre of a dish, 
and bake it in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. When done, 
sift sugar over it, and serve as quickly as possible* 



DECEMBER 23. 

* Too much sensibility creates unhappiness; too much insensibility creates erifiuJ*-^ 

Talleyrand. 



1. Harb Soup. 

2. Mutton Steaks. 



3. Omelet Glack. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Hare Soup, — Skin and cleanse a hare ; cut it into joints, and put 
into a stewpan with a knuckle of ham at the bottom, cut in slices ; two 
onions cut in slices, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 7 or 8 cloves, 
and 2 or 3 blades of mace, and a few whole allspice ; cover with some 
good beef gravy ; take off the scum when it comes to the boil ; stew 
gently until tender, and strain off the broth. Cut the meat from the 
bones of the back and legs, which «cut into small pieces and put aside. 
Put the rest into the stewpan again; cover with some boiling beef 
stock, and stew gently until the meat can be easily separated from the 
bones. Strain off the broth, pick out the bones, and pound the meat 
in a mortar ; rub it through a tammy into a clean pot, using the broth 
to moisten it with whilst rubbing it through. 

Put into a stewpan about ^ lb. of sweet butter and 2 moderate-sized 
onions sliced. Sweat the whole over a slow fire until the onions are 
done ; then make a nice brown roux and moisten it with the first stock ; 
let it simmer gently to throw up the grease ; skim and strain : mix the 
whole together; boil and season with salt and cayenne pepper; add \ 
pint of port wine, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. A few pieces 
of fried bread cut in dice may be put into the tureen when served. 
This should produce 4 quarts of soup. 

The remains of a roast hare may be made into soup in the same 
manner. The crumb of 2 penny French rolls soaked in broth and 
rubbed through the tammy with the hare, may be used for thickening 
instead of brown roux. 

2. Mutton Steaks, — ^Just brown your steaks on each side in the fiy- 
ing-pan, or in the large shallow stewpan in which they are to be finished 
off. Then cover the steaks with a variety of any good vegetables that 
are in season : green peas, young carrots, small turnips sliced, celery 
cut into small pieces, a few leaves of sorrel and parsley, haricots, etc. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 361 

Moisten with a tea-cupful of mutton broth and half a glass of wine 
(white or red). Let the cover of the stewpan fit down as close as 
possible. Simmer very gently over a slow fire, giving a shake from 
time to time, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. It takes 
a considerable time to do thoroughly, but has the advantage of being 
able to be kept hot, and always remaining in readiness. 

3. Omelet Glace. — Six eggs, a Httle salt, 5 or 6 macaroons, the peel 
of half a lemon. 

Break and separate the yolks from the whites of 6 firesh eggs ; add a 
pinch of salt, the peel of half a lemon minced fiXi^^ and 5 or 6 pounded 
macaroons; mix all well together. Then whip the whites to a stiff 
froth ; beat them well into the yolks, and then pour the mixture into a 
pan of hot butter ; stir them round, and raise the edges to separate it 
firom the pan ; turn them over, and then turn the omelet on a dish ; 
sprinkle sugar over it, and lightly brown with a salamander. Serve 
quickly. 



DECEMBER 24. 
* The best sort of revenue is not to be like him who did the injury.^ — ANTONINUS. 



1. Tapioca Soup. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding. 



3. Cream Omelet. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Tapioca Soup, — Put as much ready-boiled tapioca into your stock 
as will bring it to the consistency of good pease soup. There ought 
never to be a mere sediment of tapioca at the bottom of your tureen, 
covered and drowned by an ocean of broth. The tapioca should per- 
vade the soup. Flavour with whatever you like. The ordinary vege- 
tables are most commonly employed. 

2. Beefsteak Pudding, — Line a basin with a well-made light paste, not 
too thick ; put in half the quantity of beef required, each piece having 
been seasoned with a little salt and soluble cayenne pepper j then put 
in 12 oysters with their liquor, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 
2 tea-spoonfuls of shalot vinegar, and the rest of the meat. Let your 
top crust be well secured to the basin, the whole carefully tied up. 
Boil according to the size of your pudding. 

3. Cream Omelet — Ten eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of rice flour, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, peel of half a lemon, i 
pint of cream, i oz. of bitter and sweet almonds mixed. 

Boil a pint of cream with 3 large spoonfuls of rice flour mixed smooth 
in a little of the cream, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and a piece of butter the 
size of an tgg. When thick, set it to cool, and then stir in the yolks of 6 
eggs, the grated lemon peel, and the almonds blanched and pounded in 



362 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

a mortar. Stir all well together, and lightly add the whites of the 6 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Line a mould with buttered paper on both sides, 
pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, let 
it settle for a minute ; turn it very carefully out, and strew sugar over 
the top. 



DECEMBER 28. 

' Must hve be ever treated with prof oneness as a mere illusion f or with coarseness as 
a mere impuiset or with fear as a mere disease f or with shame as a vtere weakness t or 
with levity as a mere accident? Whereas it is a great mystery, and a great necessity^ 
lying at the foundation of human existencCf morality, and happiness — mysterious, msU' 
versal, inevitable as death,* — Harriet Martineau. 



I. Soup. 

2. TURBOT. 

3. Boiled Turkey and Sauce. 

4. Ham. 

5. Sirloin of Beef. 



6. Sauce to Sirloin of Beef. 

7. Christmas Pudding. 

8. Sauce to ditto. 

9. Syllabubs. 
10. Vegetables. 



1. Soup, — One lb. of gravy beef, i pint of water, i carrot, i turnip, i 
onion, i clove. 

2. Turbot — It is a question of taste whether to cook it immediately it 
comes out of the water, or to keep it a couple of days, salting it at least 
one night. Most people prefer it in the latter condition ; the flesh is 
firmer, and it has acquired more flavour. On the other hand, the 
sooner it is cooked after taking leave of the sea, the lighter and moie 
digestible it is. 

Put your turbot in a fish-kettle three-quarters full of cold water, 
into which you have thrown a handfiil of salt While boiling up, 
remove the scum as fast as it rises. As soon as it really boUs, draw the 
kettle partially ofi* the fire, allowing it only to simmer gently. The 
size of the fish must regulate the time it .should remain in the water 
4ifter boiling. A moderate-sized turbot will be done in from thirty to 
forty minutes ; a small one in twenty ; while it must be a veiy large 
turbot indeed which takes a whole hour to cook. Give a final carefiil 
skimming before lifting the fish on its strainer out of the water. Let it 
drain a few minutes over the kettle ; have ready the dish with a napkin 
on it, and adroitly let the fish slide on to its snowy bed. Of course, 
the fish will have been laid on the strainer with the side uppermost 
which is wished to be so when served. 

3. BoiUd Turkey and Sauce. — Chop i^ oz. of suet very fine (if butter 
is used instead, cut it in small pieces), with ^ pint of finely-grated bread- 
crumbs ; chop very small a fiiggot of savoury herbs, a \ salt-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to the taste; mix all thoroughly tx^* 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 363 

gether. Open 18 oysters, beard and chop them (not too small), and 
add them to the ingredients. Beat up 2 eggs, and work and mix 
smoothly all together with the hand. Do not stuff the turkey too full, 
but make the remaining forcemeat rolled into balls; fry them, and 
garnish with them. 

A boiled turkey is a most delicate and excellent dish, and requires to 
be dressed with extreme care. Clean the turkey from feathers and 
stumps, and singe off the hairs, taking care not to blacken the skin. 
Draw and wipe it inside with a clean dry cloth ; cut off the legs at 
the first joint ; draw out the sinews ; then pull down the skin, and push 
the legs inside ; cut the head off dose to the body, leaving the skin 
long, and draw out the craw. Make a good veal stuffing and put it 
into the breast, leaving sufficient room for the ^stuffing to swell ; then 
draw the skin of the breast over the opening and sew it neatly across 
the back, so that when the turkey is brought to table no sewing will 
appear. Place the gizzard in one wing and the liver in the other ; turn 
the wings on the back, and fix them to the sides with a skewer j wrap it 
in a cloth dredged with flour, and put it into a pot of warm water, in 
sufficient quantity to keep the turkey always covered. Skim it whUe 
boiling. A small young turkey will not take more than an hour and a 
half to boil it ; a large one about two hours and a half. When done, 
place it in a hot dish, and poiu: a little sauce over the breast. Send up 
oyster sauce, or parsley and butter, in a tureen. Some cooks make 
the stuffing of chopped bread and butter, oysters, cream, and the yolks 
of eggs. 

Celery, stock-broth, sugar, bechamel, cream. Take the white of 
heads of celery; blanch, drain, and throw them in cold water; let 
them cool, and drain dry. Stew them with a litde broth and sugar 
until all the moisture is absorbed ; then mix with 4 table-spoonfuls of 
bechamel, strain through a tammy, and put in a water bath. Just before 
serving, add a little cream. 

4. Ham, — If the ham has been long cured, soak it in cold water fbr 
from twelve to twenty hours. Scrape it and put it into a large vessel to 
boU with plenty of cold water, and let it simmer gently from three to 
four or five hours, according to the size. A ham of 20 lbs will require 
four hours and a half. Skim the pot frequently to rempve the grease as 
it rises. When done, strip off the rind, and strew bread-raspings over 
the top side ; then set it before the fire, or in the oven, to dry and 
brown. Some persons prefer to bake a ham ; it is then necessary, after 
soaking and scraping, to enclose it in a paste of flour and water before 
sending it to the oven. 

6. Saua to Sirloin of Beef. — Grate or scrape very fine i table-spoon- 
ful of horseradish, and thoroughly mix with it i tea-spoonfiil of made 



364 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

mustard, 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and i tea-spoonful of pounded 
sugar. 

7. Christmas Pudding, — ^Take \ lb. of suet, i lb. of bread, i lb. of 
currants, i lb. of raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon 
shred as fine as possible, \ lb. of sugar, 6 Jamaica peppers in fine 
powder, 8 eggs, take out 4 whites, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence. Boil it in a 
floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. This pudding 
will keep, after it has been boiled, six months, if kept tied up in 
the same cloth and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap paper to pre^ 
serve it from dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil 
a full hour. 

8. Sauce to ditto, — Into \ pint of thick melted butter put a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoon- 
ful of lemon syrup, 2 glasses of Madeira, and i of Curagoa ; stir all 
well together, and pour it quite hot over the pudding. 

9. Syllabubs, — Weigh 7 oz. of fine sugar, and rasp on it the rinds of 
two fresh, large^ sound lemons ; then pound or roll it to powder and put 
it into a bowl with the strained juice of the lemons, 2 large glasses of 
sherry, and 2 of brandy ; when the sugar is dissolved, add a pint of 
fresh cream, and whisk or mill the mixture well ; take off the froth as it 
rises and put it into glasses. These syllabubs should always be made 
twenty-four hours before they are wanted, and will remain good for 
days. 

The full flavour of the lemon-rind is obtained with less trouble than 
in rasping, by paring it very thin indeed, and infusing it for some hours 
in the juice of the fruit These proportions are suflicient for 2 dozen or 
more of syllabubs. 

DECEMBER 26. 
• VirUu is hold^ and goodness never fearful: -—^l^KHSi^J^YCR. 

1. Gravy Soup. I 3. Snow Pancakes. 

2. Roast Leg of Pore. | 4. Vegetables. 

I. Gravy Soup, — Have 3 or 4 lbs. of the fleshy part of a shin of beef 
cut across in slices, sawing the bone quite through. You may take out 
the marrow, it will help to make the Doctor's Pudding, eta With the 
meat and bones make a good stock, flavouring with the vegetables and 
herbs usual for brown soups. Suppose you have left a quantity of roast 
beef or veal gravy, put this with the fat into a stewpan; when hot, 
brown it in chopped onions and flour for a thickening ; season, work it 
well into your stock, strain, boil up, and ser/e. 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 



36; 



2. Roast Leg of Porky like boiled, must have been scalded. The 
skin is then scored (without cutting into the fat beneath it) to form the 
•crackle.' In roasting, this requires to be protected by oiled paper; if 
the fire is very fierce, to be removed towards the end of the process, in 
order that the crackle may be crisp and nicely browned. It therefore 
requires considerable attention all the while it is roasting. Roast leg 
of pork is best accompanied by mashed potatoes and apple sauce ; for 
which latter, peel, quarter, and core your apples, cut them into small 
pieces, put them into a stewpan with a tumbler of cider or (if you have 
none) water, the peel of half a lemon, and 3 or 4 doves. Let boil tiU 
the apple is reduced quite to a pulp. Take out the lemon-peel, add 
the juice of a lemon, mix and mash all thoroughly together, and serve 
very hot in a small vegetable dish or sauce tiureen. Roast leg of pork 
may be stuffed with sage and onions in the same way as with parsley. 
Chop the onions and sage leaves finely together; season with salt, 
pepper, and allspice, and ram them into the hole made in the pork to 
receive them. 

3. Snow Pancakes. — Four oz. of flour, a ^ of a pint of milk, a little 
grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, sufficient flour to make a thick batter, 
and 3 large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. Make a stiff batter 
with 4 oz. of flour, a :^ of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number 
of pancakes, and add 3 large spoonfuls of snow to each. Fry them 
lightly in very good butter, and serve quickly. 



DECEMBER 27. 

* Nothing earthly i^ves or can destroy 

I The sottTs calm sunshine and the heartfelt Joy.* — PoPE. 



1. Mock Turtle. 

2. Snipe Pudding. 



3. Omelet with Sweetmeats. 

4. Vegetables. 



I. Mock Turtle. — ^Take half a calTs head, properly scalded and pre- 
pared, with the skin on. Take out the brains, and boil them separately 
in salt and water. Take out the bones of the nose, and wash the head 
in cold spring water. Put it on the fire in a laige boiler or soup-kettle, 
in which it can be well covered with cold water ; throw in a handful ot 
salt ; skim until it boils, and there remains no more scum to remove. 
Let it boil galloping a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; then take 
it out ; throw away this first water, and put the head on the fire again 
in fresh hot water, in which it may boil until enough but not too much 
done. Any impurities which can reasonably excite dislike will have 
been removed by the first water and its scum. 



366 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

» ^ 

2. Smpe Pudding. — Allow a snipe for each person at table, and one 
or two more over and above that number. When plucked and singed, 
merely remove the eyes ; they must be left whole, without emptying, as 
for roasting. Take first-rate rump-steak (in quantity which you wiU 
easily calculate from the size of your pudding), with the small propor- 
tion of &t belonging to it ; cut it into shapely pieces, an inch and a 
half or two inches square ; dust them well on each side with ^ound 
white pepper, salt, and flour. Line the inside of a large pudding-<lish 
or basin with pie-crust rolled thin; dust this with a little flour. In the 
pudding-basin so lined, pack your snipe and your steak, placing them 
at equal distances throughout the mass, seasoning rather highly with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkling amongst them (if not disapproved) as 
much cayenne pepper as will lie on the point of your penknife. If you 
have one or two brown or black-gilled mushrooms, dean and free from 
maggots^ add them, after removing the stalks and peeling off the upper 
skin. If not, replace them with one or two dessert-spoonfuls of mush- 
room ketchup ; with this sauce, however, you had better be sparing; as 
it is apt to be very salt Cover your pudding with thick crust ; tie the 
doth (dusted with flour) dosely over it; set it on the fire to cook in 
a large boiler or copper of boiling water, and let it boil galloping 
for three or four hours, or even longer. The truth is, that you can 
hardly cook it too much in any reasonable time. Let it boil away, 
therefore, imtil the guests are seated at table waiting for it As soon 
as it is fished out of the boiler, and set upright on a plate, take off 
the doth instantly. Transfer the pudding to the dish (standing) on 
which it is to be sent to table, and serve it in the basin in which it 
was boiled. 

3. Omelet with Sweetmeats, — Nine eggs, 5 table-spoonfuls of white 
sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon extract or peach water, a tea-cup of 
butter, and preserved apricot, strawberry, or any other jauL 



DECEMBER 28. 

• ^Tis virtue makes the bliss wkerier we <ftc«//.*— COLUNS. 

1. Chestnut Soup. I 3. Stone Creau. 

2. Roast Rabbits. | 4. Vegetables. 

I. Chestnut Soup. — Have ready some good broth or consommi; that 
of game or fowl is best 

Feel the brown skin from a quantity of raw chestnuts ; boil them a 
minute or two in water, to make the under skin come away easily. 
Pound them in a mortar ; boil them in water till tender enough to crush 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 367 

them through a cullender with a spoon ; throw them into the broth ; 
boil up again, and pour into a tureen with a few crusts or dice of toasted 
bread, and a sl^ht sprinkling of sugar at the bottom. 

2. Rodst Rabbits. — Make a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, minced beef 
suet, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a little lemon 
thyme, if sweet herbs are approved. Beat up 2 eggs, and mix the 
whole into a paste. Put this forcemeat inside the rabbit, sew it up, 
and skewer it into the proper form. Rub the outside of the rabbit over 
with butter ; flour it a little j and stick on very thin slices of bacon by 
means of small skewers of iron wire. A French cook would lard the 
back of the rabbit with a larding needle. These slices of bacon will 
roast up, till they are become quite crisp and dry. The fat which oozes 
fix>m them will keep the rabbit moist and juicy ; still, it ought to be 
well basted while roasting. 

Make a gravy with a small piece of beef (or the livers of the rabbits, 
if they are not roasted inside), a whole onion, some whole peppercorns, 
a blade of mace, a clove or two, and a small crust of bread toasted very 
dry and brown, but not burnt When the gravy is boiled enough, strain 
it, and then add a little ketchup and flour well braided together. Make 
the gravy yitf/ boil up (for a minute or two) before serving with the 
roast rabbit in a separate tureen by itsel£ Some add a glass of port 
wine to the gravy. 

3. Stone Cream, — One pot of preserved apricots or plums, \ an oz. of 
isinglass, i pint of cream, i lemon, 2 tea-spoonfuls of crushed white 
sugar (more or less, to taste). 

Take a glass dish and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with 
preserved apricots or plums ; dissolve half an oz. of isinglass in a little 
water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the lemon 
grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste. Let it boil one 
minute, then put it into a jug that has a spout When it is nearly cold, 
but not quite set, squeeze into it the juice of the lemon (or rather, 
squeeze the lemon in a cup and add to it the cream, lest a pip should 
foil into the jug). Pour it into the dish (from a jug with a spout) over 
the sweetmeat, and let it stand all night Place on the top a few 
ratafias. 

Any very nice jam may be substituted for the apricot, but the latter 
is best of alL 




o 



68 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DECEMBER 29. 

* Say what is prayer , when it is prayer indeed? 
The mighty utterance of a mighty need/— AKCKBlsnov TrenCIL 



1. FiJEMisH Soup. 

2. Broiled Fowl. 



3. Omelet Soufflee. 

4. Vegetables. 



1. Flemish Soup. — Put 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with a suffi- 
ciency of stock or good broth that has been well skimmed. Into this 
slice 6 onions and 3 heads of celery cut into small pieces. Set it over 
a slow fire to boil gently for one hour. At the same time peel and 
quarter a dozen middle-sized potatoes, and put them on in a separate 
saucepan to boil. This is done because potatoes ought not to be 
cooked in any soup, hash, or made dish of which they are to form part, 
as the water that comes from them contains a principle that disagrees 
with many stomachs. When the quartered potatoes are done enough, 
drain them a minute or two, and add them to the sliced onions and 
celery. Season with a little pepper and salt When the potatoes are 
quite dissolved, rub the whole through an iron-wire sieve ; add a pint 
of cream, and give it. a boil. A little macaroni broken into short 
lengths, boiled tender in milk, and thrown into the soup just before 
going to table, is a great improvement 

2. Broiled Fowl, — At a quiet repast you may be content with broiled 
fowl; on a state occasion you must have spread eagle, and Hoo of 
them, if only to display the double head and neck. For the former, 
you may cut off the neck an inch above its junction with the body, and 
remove the shanks entirely ; for the latter, you must retain head, neck, 
and all, and leave the legs pheasant-length. 

Singe your fowl, empty it, decapitate the head and neck, amputate 
the shanks. Split it open down the back, from the insertion of the 
neck to the rump. Lay it open, press it flat, and keep it flat with 
the aid of skewers and string. When nicely arranged, put it into a 
stewpan with just enough water to cover it, and a tea-spoonful of salt 
Put in also the head and neck cut into 3 or 4 pieces, the gizzard, heart, 
liver, and the two white kidneys, if any. Let these boil gently until 
the fowl is cooked, but slightly under-done. Take it out and set it 
aside to cool : it may be kept in that state till next day, or whenever 
wanted. Take out also the liver and kidneys, cut off" ^e wattles and 
comb, and take the brains from the head ; put them aside. Let the 
rest continue to boil, to make the heart and gizzard quite tender, and 
extract all the goodness from the head and neck. 

For the Sauee to Broiled Fowl^ — Fry sliced onions, in a stewpan, in 
butter ; add a little flour ; moisten with the boilings of the fowl, stirring 
to keep all smooth ; remove the onions 3 season with pepper, salt, and 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 369 



grated nutmeg. When that is done, and you have obtained a creamy, 
thick, brown sauce, throw into it the fowl's comb and wattles, the 
kidneys, the liver cut in two, the gizzard cut into four, the brains, 2 
table-spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms, and i dessert-spoonful of the 
vinegar from them : the mushrooms are indispensable. Keep your sauce 
hot in a bain-maru till wanted. Smear the upper surface of your opened 
and cold boiled fowl with oiled butter ; broil it, presenting the under side 
first to the fire. When thoroughly hot through, turn it on the gridiron 
to brown the upper surface. When nicely done, lay it on your dish, 
remove the skewers, and pour over it the hot sauce with all its contents. 
3. Omelet Soufflie. — Six eggs, 4 dessert-spoonfiils of sugar, peel of i 
large lemon, ^ lb. of fresh butter. Beat 6 eggs, the whites and yolks 
separately ; put to the yolks 4 dessert-spoonfuls of white sugar powdered, 
and the peel of a large lemon chopped very fine ; mix them thoroughly. 
Whisk the whites to a high froth, and add them to the yolks. Put \ lb. 
of butter into a pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as it is completely 
melted, pour in the mixture ; stir it that the butter may be well in- 
corporated with the eggs. When it is so, put it in a buttered dish, and 
set it over hot embers or ashes ; strew powdered sugar over the top, and 
colour it with a salamander. This may be done in the oven. Serve 
quickly, or the omelet will fall and its appearance be spoiled. 



DECEMBER 30. 

• The true way of softening on^s troubles is to solace those of others, * — 

Madame de Maintenon. 



4. Batter FOR Fritters. 

5. Vegetables. 



1. Shin op Beef Soup. 

2. Roast Pigeons. 

3. HousE-LAMB Steaks. 

I. Shin of Beef Soup, — Into a large boiler of cold water put 8 or 9 
lbs. of the hind legs of beQ^ cut into convenient-sized pieces, 6 large 
carrots, 10 onions, and 3 heads of celery, all sliced, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, 2 whole anchovies, a little bit of ham, quite lean, from the bone 
(a small portion of ham-bone which is tolerably close cut will answer 
exceedingly well), and some pounded cloves and whole pepper. All 
these are to simmer gently over a slow fire for at least twenty-four hours 
(six-and-thirty is better), and are then to be strained into a pan and left 
to cool till the next morning, when the fat may be cleared off. A few 
small carrots and button onions should be boiled separately in a por- 
tion of this liquor, and added with it when the soup is served. When 
the beef is about enough and not too much done, the nicest pieces of 
gristle and tender meat should be picked out, cut into dice, and added 
to the soup before serving it. 

2 A 



370 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2. Roast Pigeons. — ^The birds should be killed by having their necks 
broken, and should not be bled. When they are plucked, drawn, 
singed, and trussed, cover them with 3 or 4 thin slices of bacon, and 
as many vine leaves tied around them with a coarse thread. Roast 
them on a spit, and baste them Mrith good veal broth and a slice of 
butter. If they are young and tender, half an hour is long enough to 
cook them. If they are to be eaten hot, dish them up as they are, 
simply taking off the thread which confines the vine leaves and the 
bacon, and serve them Mrith a saua piquatUey made by mixing a little 
mustard, salt, tarragon, vinegar, and pepper with the gravy which comes 
from them. If the gravy is poor or short in quantity, add a little vtrj 
good Florence oil. 

3. House4atnb Steaks, — Some steaks from a loin of lamb, pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, peel of half a lemon, a sprig of parsley, i egg, a large cup- 
ful of rich gravy, 3 oz. of butter, i tea-spoonful of flour, 2 dessert-spoon- 
fuls of port wine, 12 oysters. 

Cut some nice steaks from a loin of house-lamb ; dip them into the 
yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then season them with a sprig of parsley 
chopped very fine, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a little pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg. Fiy the steaks a nice light brown in some butter; 
then thicken a large cupfiil of rich gravy with about an oz. of butter 
rolled in flour ; add 2 dessert-spoonfuls of port wine, and a dozen oysters 
bearded and washed dean ; let the gravy boil, and then put in the steaks. 
When they are thoroughly hot, serve them with forcemeat-balls or plain. 

4. Batter for Fritters, — Eight oz. of flour, \ pint of water, 2 or. of 
butter, whites of 2 eggs. 

Mix 8 oz. of fine flom: with about \ pint of water into a smooth batter ; 

dissolve the butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees into the 

flour. Then add the whites of 2 eggs whisked to a stifi* firoth, and stir 

them lightly in. 

— — 

DECEMBER 81. 

' Virtue alone can five true joy ; 
The sweets of virtue never cUy: 
To take delight in doing food^ 
Injustice^ truths and gratitude^ 
In aiding those whom cares oppress^ 
Administering comfort to distress* — ^Dewa&t.' 



5. Swiss Pudding. 

6. Cocoa-nut Saucb. 

7. Cheese. 



1. GiBLET Soup. 

2. Fork Cutlets. 

3. Tomato Sauce. 

4. Vegetables. 

I. Giblet Soup, — Have a set of goose giblets nicely cleaned and 
cut into pieces two inches long. Put them into a stewpan with \\ 



BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 371 

pints of cold water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white 
pepper, a salt-spoonfiil of flour of mustard, half a grain of cayenne, 
the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf and a laurel leal. 
Boil up slowly ; skim, then simmer for one hour. Take out the gib- 
lets, strain the liquor, and skim off every particle of fat. Add the 
liquor and the giblets to 2 quarts of stock ; simmer gently for about an 
hour and a half Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour with half a gill 
of cold stock, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Stir this into the soup, and boil for twelve minutes ; add a 
small wine-glassful of Marsala or sherry, and serve at once. 

2. Park Cutlets, — Cut 6 or 7 cutlets from the fore-loins of small pork, 
each the width of the bone ; trim ofi" all the fat, and bare the end of the 
bone about an inch. Season 3 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonfiil of white pepper, and the sixth part of a 
nutmeg grated. Beat a fresh egg on a plate for five minutes ; dip each 
cutlet into the e^ and then into the crumbs; let them stand ten 
minutes. Cut the fat into small pieces ; put it into a fiying-pan, and, 
when suflSciently dissolved, firy the cutlets in it to a pale brown colour 
(about twenty minutes) over a moderate fire ; drain on a sieve before 
the fire for two minutes. 

3. Tomato Sauce. — Put a gill (or more) of tomato sauce into a sauce- 
pan j knead a tea-spoonful of baked flour with \ oz, of butter, and stir 
iiL Place the cutlets neatly round a hot dish ; pour the sauce in the 
centre, and serve. 

5. Swiss Pudding, — Four oz. of bread-crumbs dried and pounded to 
a fine powder, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of 
any kind of preserved fiiiit, 6 oz. of beef-marrow or suet, the milk of 
the cocoa-nut, or ^ a gill of new milk, and 3 beaten eggs ; beat well, and 
let it stand an hour. Butter a basin ; beat the mixture again for ten 
minutes j put it into the basin ; tie a doth over, plunge it into fast- 
boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours and a half. Turn out 
carefully and serve, with the following sauce poured over : — 

6. Cocoa-nut Sauce, — Boil 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut and 2 oz. of loaf 
sugar in a gill of water for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a fine 
sieve ; add the beaten yolk of an egg, and ^ a gill of thick cream. 

7. Cheese, — Cut f lb. of cheese into thin slices (without rind) ; season 
with 2 tea-spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, spread over in layers, and 
a salt-spoonfiil of black pepper. Put the cheese into a small tin toaster; 
pour over the top an oz. of dissolved butter; place it before a bright 
fire for about eighteen minutes. Serve very hot, and with a rack of 
fresh-made toast also quite hot 



372 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF DECEMBER. 



1. Scotch Seed Cake. 

2. Bordeaux Cake. 

3. Cocoa-nut Cake. I 

4. Pine Apple. 

5. Grapes in Brandy. 

6. Glaces a l* Ananas. 

7. Orange Biscuits. 

8. Medlar Jelly. 



9. Portugal Cake. 

10. Cocoa-nut Macaroons. 

11. Cup Cakes. 

Grapes, Chestnuts, Dates, 
Oranges, Filberts, Figs, 
Apples, Medlars and Driei> 
Fruits, Pears, Almonds, and 
Raisins. 



I. SCOTCH SEED CAKE, 

Beat to a high froth the yolks of 6 and the whites of 4 eggs ; add loaf 
sugar in powder 4 oz., and butter worked to a cream 4 oz., a tea-spoon- 
ful of mixed spice, and another of caraway seeds ; 4 oz. of sweet almonds 
beaten to a paste, with the addition of a little laurel water to prevent 
them turning oily ; ^ a lb. of candied orange peel, not cut too small ; 
20 oz. of flour, and enough brandy to make it of the proper consistency. 
Mix well, and bake for one hour in rather a brisk oven« 

2. BORDEAUX cake. 

Beat separately the yolks and whites of 12 eggs ; mix them together; 
add to them a lb. of loaf sugar in powder, a lb. of butter worked to a 
froth, and \ a lb. each of dried wheaten flour and potato facule. Bake 
for an hour in a circular tin. The next day, cut it into slices horizontally, 
and spread each slice with apricot and pine apple marmalade alternately; 
lay the slices upon each other; arrange some dried fruits upon the last 
slice, sift sugar over it, and place it in an oven for ten minutes. When 
cold, serve. 

3. COCOA-NUT cake. 

Blanch and grate \ a lb. of fresh cocoa-nut, and put it to simmer in 
a pint of new milk until the latter is reduced one hal£ Put a lb. ot 
flour into a pan ; make a pit in the middle of it ; add to it a little salt, a 
lb. of butter beaten up, 12 eggs lightly whisked, the milk strained from 
the cocoa-nut, a good dessert-spoonful of ginger, and a tea-cupful of 
mild yeast Mix it well together, and let it remain six or eight hours in 
a warm place to rise. Before making it up, add 12 oz. of roughly 
crushed loaf sugar. Form it into a cake, and bake it in a rather brisk 
oven for an hour and a halfl 



DESSERT FOR DECEMBER. 373 



4. PINE APPLE, 

Peel a very ripe pine apple, cut it into thin slices, lay them to soak 
in a thick sugar syrup first boiled and allowed to grow cold ; cover them 
closely down, and when they have infused some hours, arrange them in 
your compotier, and pour the syrup round them. 

5. GRAPES IN BRANDY, 

Put some small bunches of very sound grapes into a wide-mouthed 
botde j add to them half their weight of fine loaf sugar in powder, and 
fill them up with the best white brandy. 

6. CLACES A L'aNANAS. 

Reduce a good-sized pine apple to a pulp ; add to it a lb. of clarified 
sugar, and let it stand some time to infuse ; add the juice of 2 or 3 
lemons ; strain it through a sieve ; mix with it -^ a tea-cupful of water ; 
stir all well together, and ice it 

7. ORANGE BISCUITS. 

Rasp the rind of a good-sized Seville orange ; add to it 6 eggs very 
highly beaten, 12 oz. of powdered sugar, 4 oz. of flour, and a very little 
strained orange juice. Mix all thoroughly until it forms a smooth 
paste ; lay it upon paper, or in small moulds ; glaze and bake them as 
other biscuits. 

8. MEDLAR JELLY. 

Pick over your medlars; choose those that are ripe, but perfectly 
sound j halve them, and put them into a saucepan with the juice of a 
lemon and enough water to float them. Boil them until the water is 
reduced to a third of its original quantity. Mash the fiuit in the liquor, 
put it in a very fine sieve, and let the juice run through without using 
pressure. Take weight for weight of the latter and highly refined loaf 
sugar, boil and skim it carefully, and when thick enough place it in your 
glass mould. This jelly should be beautifully clear when well made. 

9. PORTUGAL CAKE. 

Blanch a lb. of sweet almonds ; add 2 tea-spoonfuls of orange flower 
water, and beat them to a paste. Take a lb. of loaf sugar powdered 



374 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

and sifted, work into it a lb. of very fresh butter ; add the almonds, a 
glass of brandy, and lo eggs. Whip all well together, and when quite 
smooth put in 8 oz. of washed and dried currants. Pour it into a 
mould, and bake it for an hour in a gentle oven. 

TO. COCOA-NUT MACAROONS. 

Take a medium-sized cocoa-nut ; rasp it on a grater, and then slightly 
parch it in a slack oven for half an hour. To each pound of nut add 
the beaten whites of S ^gs and 3 lbs. of finely powdered loaf sugar. 
Form this mixture into small balls, lay them upon water paper ot a 
buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes or longer, according to the 
heat of the oven. 



Take 4 well-beaten eggs, mix with them 4 oz. of powdered loai sugar 
and 4 oz. of fine dry floui. Rub the insides of 10 or 13 small cups 
with batter, sift sugar into them, strew in a Itnr currants well cleaned and 
dried, and half fill the cups with the cake mixture. Bake until they are 
well browned, and when cold turn them into a dish. 



*PARTY' DINNERS 



ARRANGED FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR, 



DULY CONSULTING 



THE PROVISIONS WHEN IN THEIR PRIME, 



* My lordf vnJlyou vjalk t dinrur is ready,'* — Shakspeare. 

' To preserve himself in due vigour^ man requires not only sdid nutriment, but to 
obtain complete vigour he must choose that species of food most agreeable to his constitution^ 
and must partake of a variety of meats to prevent the disgust arising from a uniformity 
of nourishment.^ ^BUFFON, 



'PARTY' DINNERS 

ARRANGED FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR, 

DULY CONSULTING THE PROVISIONS WHEN IN THEIR PRIME. 



SUGGESTIONS TO THOSE WHO GIVE DINNER PARTIES. 

' .Sir, yeu are vtty wdceme te out houte ; 
Jl mutl apptar in ether wayi than imrds. 
Therefore I leant this breathing Rwn'ny.'— Shakspeare. 

WITH respect to setting out a dinner-table, everything should be 
brilliantly clean, and nothbg should be placed upon it except 
what is wanted ; and everything wanted, which can conveniently be 
upon the table, should be there, so as to dispense as much as possible 
with attendance, and thereby avoid the trouble of asking for things. I 
think it desirable not to have lights upon it, nor, indeed, anything 
which can interrupt the freest communication among the guests. The 
art of throwing the most agreeable light upon a table is well worth 
cultivating. Instead of inconvenient and useless centre-pieces, I would 
have a basket of beautiful bread, white and brown, in the middle of the 
table, with a silver fork on each side, so that the guests could help 
themselves, which would be perfectly easy with a party not exceeding 
eight, which limit I understand in all I say. I would have the wine 
placed upon the table in such a manner as to be as much as possible 
within the reach of each person ; and I hold stands for decanters to be 
impediments, and coolers also, except, perhaps, in very hot weather. 
If the wine is served at a proper temperature, it will in general remain 
so, as long as ought to be necessary ; ' but it is often set upon the table 
before it is wanted, for show. Instead of the supernumeraries we now 

' For coolmg wine, Told a wet doth mlitely round ihe decanter, and place it in a 
current of air. Be particular Iliat il is quite covered. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR DINNER PARTIES. 377 

see, I would have one or more sets of cruets upon the table, according 
to the size of the party, and containing those things which are con- 
tinually wanted, and which it is desirable to have at hand. 

Whatever dish is placed upon the table, it ought to be preceded by 
all its minor adjuncts, and accompanied by the proper vegetables, quite 
hot, so that it may be enjoyed entirely and at once. I am an advocate 
for dumb waiters ; and the smaller the party is, the more they are de- 
sirable, because attendants are a restraint upon conversation, and upon 
one's ease in general. 

With respect to the dinner itself, there are two kinds of dinners ; one 
simple, consisting of a few dishes ; the other, embracing a variety. 
Both kinds are good in their way, and both deserving attention ; but 
for constancy I greatly prefer the simple style. In the first place, it is 
necessary not to be afraid of not having enough, and so to go into the 
other extreme, and have a great deal too much, as is almost invariably 
the practice. It is also necessary not to be afraid of the table looking 
bare, and so to crowd it with dishes not wanted, or before they are 
wanted, whereby they become cold and sodden. ' Enough is as good 
as a feast,' is a sound maxim, as well in providing as in eating. The 
advantages of having only enough are these : — It saves expense, trouble, 
and attendance ; it removes temptation, and induces contentment j and 
it afifords the best chance of havifig a well-dressed dinner, by concen- 
trating the attention of the cook. The having too much, and setting 
dishes on the table merely for appearance, are practices arising out of 
prejudices, which, if once broken through, would be looked upon, and 
deservedly, as the height of vulgarity. 

In proportion to the smallness of dinner ought to be its excellence, 
both as to the quality of the materials and the cooking. When the 
materials and the cooking are of the best, and the dinner is served 
according to the most approved rules of comfort, the plainest, cheapest 
food has attractions, which is seldom to be found in the most laboured 
attempts. 

In general, there is far too little attention paid to varying the mode 
of dining according to the temperature of the seasons. Summer din- 
ners are, for the most part, as heavy and as hot as those in ^vinter, and 
the consequence is they are frequently very oppressive. In hot weather 
they ought to be of a light, cooling nature, and accompanied with 
beverages well iced, rather than with pure wine, especially of the 
stronger kinds. I cannot think there is any danger from such diet to 
those who use it moderately. The danger, I apprehend, lies in excess, 
from the pleasure felt in allaying thirst and heat The season in which 
Nature produces fruits and vegetables in the greatest abundance, is 
surely that in which they ought to be most used. In hot weather, the 



378 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

chief thing to be aimed at is to produce a light and cool feeling, 
both by the management of the room and the nature of the repast. 
In winter, warmth and substantial diet afford the most satisfaction. In 
damp weather, when the digestion is the weakest, the diet ought 
to be moderate, but warm and stimulating ; and in bracing weather, I 
think plain and substantial food the most appropriate. By studying to 
suit the repast to the temperature, the greatest satisfaction may be given 
at the cheapest rate. 

One of the greatest luxuries, to my mind, in dining, is to be able to 
command plenty of good vegetables, well served up ; but this is a 
luxury vainly hoped for at set parties. Everybody of genuine taste is 
delighted with a display of vegetables of superior order ; and if great 
attention was bestowed upon that part of dinners, instead of upon the 
many other dishes, dinners would be at once more wholesome and 
more satisfactory to the palate, and often less expensive. With respect 
to variety of vegetables, I think the same rule applies as to other dishes. 
In French cookery, vegetables meet with attention much more propor- 
tionate to their importance than in ours, and appropriateness in serving 
them is much more studied. 

In conformity with my dislike to show or display in anything con- 
nected with dinners, I prefer a service of plain white ware to plate or 
ornamented china. There is a simplicity in white ware, and an appear- 
ance of cleanliness and purity, indicative of a proper feeling, and a due 
attention in the right direction. 

As to desserts, I am no great friend to them : I enjoy fruit much 
more at any other time of the day. At any rate, I would have them in 
great moderation, and confined to a few kinds of ripe fruit Preserved 
fruits are, in my opinion, cloying after dinner. 

Common soup made at home, fish of little cost, any joint, the cheapest 
vegetables, some happy and inexpensive introduction, like the crab, and 
a pudding, Mrith sherry and port, provided everything is good in quality 
and the dishes are well dressed, and served hot and in succession with 
their adjuncts, will ensure a quantity of enjoyment which no one need 
be afraid to offer; and so it will be with any combination in the same 
style. But then it is absolutely necessary not to overdo the thing on 
the one hand, and on the other to direct the attention entirely in the 
right course ; to think nothing of display or fashion, but only of realitiesi 
and to dispose everything for comfort and ease. 




JANUARY. 

8. MAKESCO OF Fl 



. TimTLE. 

Fish. . 

. t011bot,with(3)i.oestersauce. 



6. SWEETBREADS, WITH 

7. BblLED FOWLS AND V 



ta. HASHED POTATOES. 

Pastry, etc. 

II. MADEIRA PUDDlNi;. 

13. PUNCH JELLY. 

14. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

15. ITALIAN CREAM. 

16. SAVOURY HACAROM. 



I. IStrtle Soup. — Tie down the jar in which the turtle is sent, and 
place it in a pan of Jiot water ; let it boil slowly till the soup is quite 
hot ; put a glass of old Madeira into the tureen, pour in the turtle, and 
serve immediately, with cut lemons on a plate. 

Have Justerini and Brooks' punch (2 Colonnade, Pall Mall) on the 
table. 

3. Turiot. — Wash the fish ; rub it over with lemon-juice and a table- 
spoonful of salt, and let it remain an hour. Put it into plenty of cold 
water, with a tablc-spoonful of salt and a wine-glassful of white vinegar. 
Place the kettle over a brisk fircj and when on the point of boiling, 
draw it aside ; skim, and simmer gently till done. A large turbot will 
require about three-quarters of an hour ; one of 8 lbs, half an hour, and 
a smaller one twenty minutes. Sen^e on a fine napkin, neatly rolled 
round the edges, and with lobster sauce in a tureen. 

3. Lobster Sauce. — Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine 
fresh-boiled hen lobster ; cut it into pieces the third of an inch square. 
Break up the head and shell ; bruise a salt-spoonful of live spawn ; put 
them into a saucepan with a pint of water and a blade of mace, and 
boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve ; put the liquor 
into a saucepan. Knead 6 oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried 
flour, and stir in. Boil a quarter of an hour ; add the pieces of lobster 



38o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW 

and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. 
Stir in a wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. 

Note. — The quantity given is sufl5cient to serve for lo or 12 persons, 
with a turbot weighing 8 or 9 lbs. 

4. Fillets of Sole. — Saturate them for half an hour in lemon-juice ; 
dry, and dip each fillet into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs of 
bread. Fry in plenty of boiling lard or olive oil till of a yellow-brown 
colour. Drain, and serve upon neatly-folded white paper, placing the 
fillets in a circle, one resting on the other. 

Note. — Ten minutes will fiy fillets unless very thick. 

5. Stewed Pigeons. — Stuff the pigeons, and roast them for ten minutes. 
Feel 12 button onions, and firy them till slightly browned in an oz. of 
butter; dredge in a table-spoonful of baked flour ; stir till well mixed ; 
then add ^ pint of any good stock, a table-spoonful of mushroom ket- 
chup, a tea-spoonfiil of soy, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a salt-spoonful of 
good anchovy sauce, and two table-spoonfuls of port wine ; put in the 
pigeons, and svcamti gently for half an hour. Serve very hot 

5. Oyster Vol-au-vent. — Make a puff paste with } lb. of dry sifted 
flour, J lb. of fresh butter, the yolk of an egg, the strained juice of a 
lemon ; beat the tgg first alone, then with a gill of cold water ; add the 
lemon-juice. Put tiie flour into a bowl, stir in the liquid, and make it 
into a soft paste, touching it as little as possible. Squeeze the butter in 
a cloth ; slightly sprinkle the paste slab with flour ; lay on the paste, 
make a hole in the centre, put in the butter; turn over the edges, and 
roll out 4 times. Let the paste stand in a cold place for an hour; roll 
out 2 or 3 times ; then roll it the last time an inch and a quarter thicL 
Press a tin vol-au-vent cutter quickly down, so as to take off* the rough 
edges, and cut it the size and shape required. Make a circular incision 
with a penknife a quarter of an inch deep and half an inch from the 
edge ; place it on a baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. With a penknife take out the centre carefully, remove the 
soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters prepared as follows : — Beard 
3 doz. oysters ; put the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a small 
piece of mace, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of white 
pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained 
juice ; boil up. Knead 3 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked 
flour, and stir in ; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint ; strain : 
add the oysters ; simmer six minutes ; stir in a gill of very thick fresh 
cream. Serve the vol-au-vent on a neatly-folded napkin. 

6. Sweethreadsy with Mushrooms. — Blanch and trim the sweetbreads ; 
lard them thickly with good fat bacon ; cut up half a carrot, half a 
turnip, half a head of celery, a small onion. Rub a stewpan four times 
across the bottom with garlic ; put in the vegetables, with \ lb. of butter. 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUARY. 381 

and fry them brown ; lay in the sweetbreads, and add the third of a pint 
of stock, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar and white pepper, 
a small blade of mace, 2 cloves, 3 allspice, the tenth part of a nutmeg 
grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of brandy. 
Boil up quickly ; skim, then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an 
hour. Put the sweetbreads in a moderate oven (with ^ oz. of butter on 
each) for ten minutes ; skim and strain the gravy. Skin and clean 1 2 
button mushrooms; put them into the gravy with a tea-spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar ; knead an oz. of fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful 
of baked flour, and stir in ; boil up ; put in the sweetbreads, and con- 
tinue to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sweetbreads in the 
centre, and the sauce round. 

7. Boiled Fowls and Wkiie Sauce, — Let the fowls be neatly trussed 
for boiling ; place them in a stewpan, and cover them with new milk ; 
boil up quickly, then simmer as gently as possible till done. Spring 
chickens will require sixteen minutes ; fine fowls, twenty-five minutes ; 
capons, from forty to fifty minutes. In each case the time to be 
reckoned from the boiling up. Make a sauce as follows : — Knead 2 
dessert-spoonfuls of baked flour with 3 oz. of butter, and stir into it the 
third of a pint of the milk the fowls are boiling in ; boil ten minutes ; 
add a gill of thick cream ; place the fowls on a hot dish, draw out the 
skewers. Four half of the sauce over the breasts, and serve the rest in 
a tureen. 

Note. — ^About 3 quarts of milk will be required for 2 good-sized 
fowls. If reserved in an earthen pan, it will make excellent soup, by 
adding onions, garlic, celery, carrots, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, the bones 
of the fowl, and a thick slice of crumb of bread. Boil for two hours, 
then rub through a sieve. 

8. Marengo of Fowl, — Cut a fine young fowl into joints ; divide the 
legs from the thighs, and the pinions from the wings ; cut the breast off 
the bone in 4 neat slices. Put the prime pieces into a basin of cold 
water with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a clove of garlic, and a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; let them remain for three hours. Put the 
remainder of the fowl in a saucepan, with a small carrot and an onion 
sliced, ^ lb. of gravy beef, \ lb. of lean veal, 2 oz. of ham, i clove, a 
small blade of mace, and i oz. of butter ; let it stand by the fire to 
brown the meat; add a quart of water, boil up quickly, skim, then 
simmer for three hours. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful 
of flour ; stir it into the gravy, and boil fast till it is reduced to ^ a pint, 
then strain. Add 12 button mushrooms, nicely cleaned, and a wine- 
glassful of Madeira or Marsala. Wipe the fowl dry, dredge it with 
baked flour, and fly it in butter (6 oz.) till of a deep yellow colour 
(about half an hour). Boil 6 good-sized potatoes ; mash them with a 



382 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

wooden spoon ; add a salt-spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, and 4 table- 
spoonfuls of good cream; beat till quite light and smooth. Lay the 
potatoes in the centre of a hot dish in the form of a cone ; place the 
fowl neatly round, resting on the potatoes ; pour over the sauce, and 
serve immediately. 

9. Haunch of Mutton, — ^Rub it well with a coarse doth, and dredge 
it over with dry flour; tie it in large sheets of white paper, thickly 
spread with sweet dripping ; hang it before a good fire, for the first half 
hour near^ then draw it to a distance, and roast slowly till done ; baste 
constantly. Twenty minutes before serving take off the paper, dredge 
the mutton slightly with baked flour, and baste it with 2 oz. of dissolved 
butter. Pour off the dripping ; add a tea-cupfiil of boiling water and a 
salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the meat ; pour it into a 
hot well-dish ; place the haunch on the dish, the broad side uppermost, and 
serve at once, with red currant jelly turned out on a glass d^h or a plate. 

Note. — ^Time for roasting : underdone, ten minutes to the lb. ; with 
the gravy in, fourteen minutes ; well done, eighteen minutes. In frosty 
weather, two minutes to the lb. must be added in each case. 

11. Madeira Pudding, — Beat 5 oz. of fresh butter to cream; add to 
it \ lb. of dry sifted flour, \ lb. of loaf sugar in powder, 4 beaten eggs, 
and \ lb. of citron cut into half-inch pieces ; beat for ten minutes. 
When the ingredients are well mixed, butter a mould, stick the top 
with thin slices of citron (2 oz.) ; put in the pudding, tie it closely over, 
and boil in plenty of water, as fast as possible, for an hour and a half 
Turn out carefuUy and serve, with sifted sugar over the top. 

12. Pine- Apple Cream. — Pare off the rough outside of a small ripe 
pine-apple, then peel it sufficiently thick to take off all the eyes ; put 
the peel into a saucepan with \ pint of water, and boil till the flavour is 
extracted ; then strain, and let the liquor get cold Cut the pine into 
half-inch square pieces, and strew over it 9 oz. of loaf sugar in powder, 
and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy ; let it saturate for two hours. Put 
the pine, sugar, etc., into the liquor, and boil fast for ten minutes, 
skinuning constantly; add \ oz. of ismglass; boil ten minutes more; 
pour it into a basin, and stir into it (with a whisk) a pint and a gill of 
rich cream. Stir briskly till the mixture begins to thicken, then pour it 
into a mould, and place it on ice till firmly set Stir for ten minutes 
after placing it on the ice, to prevent the fruit sinkmg. 

13. Punch Jelly. — ^Ten oz. of loaf sugar, 5 lemons, i Seville and 3 
sweet oranges, a slice of pine apple, a wine-glassful of Madeira (or rich 
brown sheny)» 3 wine-glassfuls of rum, half a wine-glassful of brandy, a 
table-spoonful of noyeau, 1} oz. of isinglass, a tea-spoonfiil of fine green 
tea, and a pint of water. Pour the water, boiling, over the tea, and let 
it infuse for twenty minutes, then strain through muslin ; nib Uie sugar 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUAR K 383 

on the rinds of the Seville orange and the lemons to extract the essence ; 
bruise the pine-apple and press out the juice; express and strain the 
juice of all the oranges and lemons ; put the sugar and the juice into 
the tea ; boil up ; skim carefully ; add the isinglass, and stir rabidly till it 
is quite dissolved, then drain through a jelly-bag. Add the spirits and 
wine ; pour the mixture from one basin to another rapidly^ to soften the 
flavoiu: j put it into a quart mould, and let it remain in a cool place till 
set, or an hour on ice will improve it. 

Note. — Calf-foot stock may be used. In this case, f oz. of ismglass 
will be sufficient 

14. Charlotte Russe. — Beat the yolks of 5 fresh eggs, and strain them 
into ^ a pint of good cream ; put this into an enamelled saucepan, 
and stir over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, but not to boiL Turn 
it into a basin to get quite cold. Dissolve 5 oz. of loaf sugar and | 
oz. of the best isinglass in } of a pint of new milk ; add 2 oz. of sweet 
almonds blanched and pounded to paste, two inches of vanilla, and 
boil slowly for twelve minutes ; then rub through a sieve, and stir it into 
the eggs while warm ; whip } of a pint of cream, and add to the rest ; 
stir till it begins to thicken. Trim off the ends of 18 or 20 new Savoy 
biscuits ; rub a plain quart mould with fresh butter; stick the biscuits 
round in an upright position, close to each other, so as to form a wall 
(the flat side inwards) ; place the mould in a pan of ice, pour in the 
cream, cover over, and let it remain till quite &inly set When about 
to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe ofif the droppings, and turn 
out carefully. 

15. Italian Cream, — Dissolve f oz. of the best isinglass and 5 oz. 
of loaf sugar in f of a pint of new milk by boiling it slowly for ten 
minutes ; strain it into a basin, and add a pint of rich cream and 35 
drops of the essence of vanilla ; turn it rapidly with a whisk till it 
begins to thicken. Dip a mould in cold water, put in the cream, and 
place it on ice till firmly set Turn out carefully, and serve immediately. 

16. Savoury Macaroni, — ^Blanch 6 oz. of Naples macaroni in 2 quarts 
of boiling water with a table-spoonful of salt in it ; let it remain till 
cold, then drain on a sieve. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with 2 
oz. of butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is absorbed ; then add 
a quart of new milk and simmer very gently till quite tender (about an 
hour and a half) ; add a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful 
of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of cayenne, 
3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 2 fresh eggs beaten with a gill of 
thick cream. Place it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese 
thickly over (3 oz.) ; on that lay an oz. of butter in small pieces ; bake 
in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from 
twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot 



Fish, 



FEBRUARY. 

7. CUKR 



VEAL WITH 
. WITH PIQUANT 



LOBSTER WI' 
OP MUTTON, S 



STILTON CHEESE, CELEKYr 



1. Mulligaiawney Soup. — (Two quarts.) — Roast a fine young fowl 
before a quick fire for half an hour, and baste it with 6 oz. of good butter ; 
put it aside till cold. Peel and slice i lai^e apple, 3 large onions, a ^ 
of a clove of garlic, and the heart of i lettuce ; fry them till tender, but 
very slightly coloured, in the butter the fowl was basted with. Cut the 
white meat off the fowl into neat pieces an inch square; break the 
bones, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, the vegetAbles, 
a oz, of cocoa-nut, a dessert-spoonful of tamarinds, 2 table-spoonfuls of 
curry powder, 2 table-spoonfiils of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, 4 leaves 
of mint, a tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, and a quart of water. Boil for an 
hour and a half, then strain through a fine sieve. Add to this a quart 
and- \ a pint of stock, the pieces of fowl, and simmer very gently for 
three-quarters of an hour. Stir in the strained juice of a large lemon 
and a gill of fresh cream, and serve immediately, with a dish of plain 
boiled rice and cut lemons on a plate. Wash J of a lb. of the best rice, 
put it into 3 pints of cold water, with a salt-spoonful of salt, and boil 
slowly, stirring frequently, for twenty-five minutes. Drain on a sieve in 
the oven, and stir n-ith a wooden fork to divide the grains. 

2. Clear Gravy Soup. — (Two quarts.) — Peel, scrape, wash, drain, and 
slice I onion, i carrot, ^ a turnip, i a head of celery, and fry them to a 



^ PARTY' DINNER FOR FEBRUARY. 385 



pale brown colour in 2 oz. of butter. Boil 5 pints of stock, put in the 
vegetables, and a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of loaf sugar, \ a 
grain of cayenne, and ^ a grain of saffron. Boil gently for three-quarters 
of an hour, skimming frequently. Strain ; put the soup into a clean 
stewpan, and boil fast (uncovered) for ten or fifteen minutes. Then set 
it aside to settle. Put a small wine-glassful of Madeira or Marsala into 
the tureen ; pour in the soup, and serve. 

3. Stewed Eds, — Skin and cut off the fins of an eel weighing 2 lbs. ; 
put it on a gridiron over a bright, quick fire for six minutes to draw out 
the fat ; well scrape it, and cut it into pieces 3 inches long ; put it into 
a pie-dish with the strained juice of 2 lemons, a salt-spoonful of salt, a 
salt-spoonful of pepper, the \ part of a nutmeg grated, a moderate- 
sized onion chopped fine, a ^ of a clove of garlic chopped, and a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; well rub the «el with this seasoning, and 
let it remain for an hour. Dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip each piece of 
eel in, and dredge it with baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over 
a quick fire (in 2 oz. of butter) for ten minutes. Put } of a pint of 
stock into a stewpan, with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of soy, a grain of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of baked flour ; 
stir till it boils. Put in the eel, boil up quickly, skim carefully, then 
simmer gently for twenty five-minutes. Add \ a gill of port wine, and 
serve. 

Note. — Button onions, button mushrooms, or fried sippets may be 
added. 

4. Fried Soles. — Fold the soles in a clean cloth to dry them ; brush 
them over with beaten egg, and dredge them with dried crumbs of bread ; 
do this twice ; then fiy in boiling fat (sufficient to entirely cover them) 
till of a pale brown colour. Put the fiying-pan at a distance from the 
fire, so that the fat boils slowly ; the colour will then be a guide as to 
the fish being done. From twelve to twenty minutes, according to the 
size of the soles, will be sufficient Drain on paper before the fire ; 
then serve on neatly folded foolscap paper, with the following melted 
butter in a tureen : — 

Butter for Soles. — Knead 3 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of 
baked flour, and stir into ^ a pint of boiling water ; boil ten minutes. 
Add the strained juice of ^ a lemon and a tea-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Serve at once. 

5. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach. — Have either the middle of the 

loin or the best end of a neck of veal, about 3 lbs. ; cut the meat off 

the bones in one compact piece ; trim off the skin and fat, and lard it 

thickly with fat bacon ; rub the bottom of a stewpan 3 times across 

with a fresh piece of cut garlic; place in the veal, with the bones 

and trimmings round it ; add a sliced onion, a sliced small carrot, a 

2 B 



386 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

mushroom chopped, \ a lettuce, 2 cloves, a small blade of mace, 4 
allspice, a salt-spoonful of salt, \ a salt-spoonful of pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of moist sugar, and f of a pint of water ; cover the larding 
with writing paper, thickly spread with butter; simmer as gently as 
possible lor three hours ; take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue 
to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal ; skim off all the fat ; 
and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair sieve ; add a table- 
spoonful of French brandy, or a wine-glassful of sherry, and serve the 
gravy over the veaL 

6. Croquets of Fowl with Piquant Sauce, — Rub 2 oz. of fresh butter 
into 6 oz. of dried floiu: ; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste ; knead 
till quite smooth, roll it out twice, then let it stand in a cool place for 
five or six hours. Cut up about \ a lb. of cold fowl (roast or boiled) free 
from skin ; .put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece 
of garlic the size of a pea, and \ a pint of water, and stew for gravy ; 
pound the fowl to paste ; add 2 oz. of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, 
pounded ; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, \ a salt-spoonful 
of white pepper, the grated rind of a ^ of a lemon, \ a salt-spoonfiil of 
floiu: of mustard, and a ^ of a salt-spoonful of salt ; add sufficient gravy 
to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are well mixed ; 
roll out the paste the eighth of an inch thick ; divide it into eight equal- 
sized pieces, about three inches square ; brush over the surface with cold 
water ; put an eighth part of the pounded meat into each piece, in the 
form of a sausage ; fold the paste over ; press the edges to make them 
adhere; then fiy in plenty of boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) 
till of a yellow-brown colour (about ten minutes) ; drain on a sieve 
before the fire, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, with or without 
fried parsley in the centre. 

7. Curried Lobster with Rice, — ^Take the meat from the shell of 2 mode- 
rate-sized fresh hen lobsters ; cut it into half-inch square pieces ; chop 
quite small a good-sized onion ; knead 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder 
and a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 3 oz. of fresh butter. Fry 
the onion and butter together till nicely browned ; stir in a gill of cocoa- 
nut milk, or thin cream ; put in the lobster, and stir for eight minutes, 
add a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemorL Serve 00 
a bed of rice. Well wash and boil ^ a lb. of the best rice in a quart of 
water for twenty minutes; drain on a sieve, and separate each grain 
with a wooden fork ; place the rice on the dish in the form of a well, 
put the lobster in the centre, and serve with mixed pickles or chutney 
separate. 

8. Roast Capon, — Scrape \ a lb. of lean veal from the fillet, chop a \ 
of a lb. of veal suet, scrape an oz. of lean ham, boil 3 fresh eggs twelve 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR FEBRUARY. 387 

minutes ; pound the whole (except the whites of the eggs) till in a paste ; 
season with \ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, \ a salt-spoonful of flour of 
mu$tard9 \ a salt-spoonful of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the 
grated rind of ^ a lemon, \ a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a 
tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; add 2 well-beaten eggs; dean 
and slice 3 truffles, mix them with the stuffing. Raise the skin from the 
upper part of the breast, lay in as much forcemeat as it will contain to 
look well, put the remainder into the body, cover the capon with paper 
spread with butter (3 oz.), and roast before a good fire for an hour and 
a half, basting frequently. Serve with gravy made as directed in the 
preceding receipt 

9. Saddle of Mutton^ Sea Kale, etc, — The saddle should be hung for 
ten days. Dredge it with dry flour ; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly 
spread with sweet dripping ; hang it before a good fire, quite close, for 
twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour 
before serving, take off" the paper ; put ^ a salt-spoon of salt into a tea- 
cupfiil of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightly 
browned. Pour off" the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. 
Send to table very hot^ and with a pot of red currant jelly turned out on 
a plate. 

Note. — ^A saddle, to be underdone, will require only seven minutes 
to the pound ; with the gravy in, ten minutes ; and well done, a quarter 
of an hour. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour for the joint 
(in each case) extra. 

10. Conservative Fudditig, — Four oz, of sponge cake, ^ an oz. of 
ratafias, i^ oz. of macaroons. Put them into a basin, and pour over 
^ a gill of rum and a gill of good cream ; add 6 well-beaten eggs ; 
beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with 
preserved cherries ; put in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper 
spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an horn: and a 
half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with 
almond) in the dish, not poured over the pudding. Three oz. of loaf 
sugar, a laurel lea^ and ^ a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make 
the sauce. 

1 1. Raspberry Cream for ditto, — ^Whip a gill and a half of good cream 
with a small pot of raspberry jam ; strain through a sieve to take out 
the pips ; whip again. 

12. Blancmange, — Have ready the following ingredients : — One oz. of 
the best isinglass, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 2 inches 
of cinnamon, a pint of new milk, a gill of rich cream, 10 bitter and 2 
oz. of sweet almonds ; blanch the almonds and pound them to paste ; 
add by degrees, while pounding, the third of a pint of cold water ; let it 
stand for two hours, then strain off the liquid. Put the milk, sugar. 



388 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

cinnamon, and vanilla into an enamelled saucepan, and boil slowly till 
the sugar is dissolved, then stir in the isinglass. When that is dissolvedf 
strain into a. basin ; stir in the milk of almonds and the cream : whea 
cool, pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cold place 
till finnly set, or put it on ice for an hour. 

13. Cheaemkes. — Line small tartlet tins with paste; fill the centre 
with lemon cheesecake; smooth over with a knife, and bake in a 
moderately-heated oven for eighteen minutes. Serve hot or cold. 
Currants may be added to the lemon or almond, and candied orange- 
peel to the orange, when preferred. 





MARCH. 




Soup. 

Fish. 

3. bakzd cod with sufk 


MB SAUCE. 


4. LOBSTER PATTIES. 

5. STUFFED LOIN OF MUTTON. 

8. TEAL AND SEA KALE. 

9. VENETIAN CKEAU. 


Entbzes. 

3. BRISKET OF lEEF STE 


„„w™ 


II. JUNIOR UNITE 

NEUFCHATBL 


AND OTHER CHEESE. 



I. Afock Turtle Smip. — (Three quarts.) — Have ready half of a jma// 
calTs head with the skin on, 3 lbs. oflean veal, 3 lbs. of veiy fresh lean 
beef, \ a lb. of mild lean ham, 3 onions, a head of celery, 2 large 
carrots, t turnip, a small bunch of mixed sweet herbs, a bunch of fresh 
parsley, 3 sage leaves, garlic, spice, sugar, anchovy sauce, soy, butter, 
baked Sour, a gill of Marsala, 3 n-ine-glassfuls of Madeira or rich brown 
sheny, lemons, etc Feel, scrape, wash, slice, and fry the vegetables to 
a pale brown colour in a ^ of a lb. of butter. Put the veal and the beef 
into an iron pot with a pint of cold water, and let it stand by the side 
of the fire for an hour, to draw out the gravy ; then put in the vegetables, 
the herbs, ham, 6 peppercorns, 4 cloves, a blade of roace, a piece of 
garlic the size of a pea, a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of loaf 
sugar, the head, skin uppermost, and 4 quarts of cold water. Boil up 
quickly ; skim. Put in the Marsala, and simmer gently for two hours, 
skimming frequently. Take out the head, pull out the bones, and 
trim off all rough pieces j put the meat between two dishes, with a 
heavy weight on the upper one, and let it get cold. Put the bones and 
trimmings back into the pot, and simmer for four hours, skimming 
constantly. Knead a j of a lb. of fresh butter with 5 table-spoonfuls of 
flour, baked till slightly browned, a grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of 
flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and a salt-spoonfiil of 
salt Stir this into the soup ; add a dessert-spoonful of soy and a tea- 
spoonfiil of ancho\y sauce. Boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain 



390 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

through a fine sieve. Cut the meat off the head into inch square pieces ; 
put it into the soup, add the strained juice of a lemon ; simmer for 
twenty minutes. Put in the Madeira or sherry, and serve immediately. 
Cut lemons and cayenne should be handed. 

2. Baked Cod with Supreme Samce, — Have a piece out of the middle 
of a fine cod weighing about 4 lbs. ; wash it in salt and water ; rub it 
over with a wine-glassful of vin^;ar, and let it stand an hour; roll it in 
a cloth to dry. Mix together 2 oz. of fine crumbs of bread, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, the peel of half 
a lemon grated, half a grain of cayenne. Beat i fresh egg, brush the 
fish over with the egg, and dredge it with the crumbs. Slice an onion 
and a carrot, and put them into a tin dish with a small cupful of water 
and a wine-glassful of vinegar. Put the fish on a drainer and place it 
over the vegetables, but neither the water nor the vegetables must 
touch the fish. Put it intb a moderately-heated oven, and bake about 
an hour, basting it firequently with dissolved butter. When half done 
tiun the fish, then strew over some more crumbs, and baste with the 
butter. 

3. Brisket of Beef Stewed with Pickles. — Have a nicely cut piece of 
brisket, about 6 lbs. ; hang it before a good fire to roast for one hour; 
dredge it lightly with flour, and baste well. Chop one onion, cut into 
half-inch squares, i carrot, i turnip, and a small head of celery ; put 
them into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, and firy till brown ; lay in the 
beef, with a pint and a half of stock or water ; boil up quickly, skim, 
then simmer very gently for two hours. Mix together a table-spoonfiil 
of flour, a tea-spoonfiil of mustard, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoon- 
ful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of 
soy, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 table-spoonfiils of Harvey 
sauce, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfiils of 
the vinegar of mixed pickles ; stir these into the gravy, and continue 
the simmering two hours longer, skimming frequently; add a break- 
fast-cupful of mixed pickles, cut into inch lengths; simmer another 
hour, then serve very hot 

4. Lobster Patties, — Make a paste, and proceed as directed in the 
foregoing receipt, using lobster instead of oysters. Take the meat out 
of a good-sized hen lobster, and chop it small ; put the shells into half 
a pint of milk, with half an inch of mace, the thin rind of half a lemon, 
the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, half a grain of cayenne, a grain of 
white pepper, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes, 
then strain. Put the lobster into the milk, and simmer for five minutes. 
Stir a dessert-spoonful of Oswego floiu: into \ a gill of thick cream, and 
add to the rest ; stir till it thickens, then fill the patties as directed. 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR MARCH. 391 

5. Stuffed Loin ofMtUton, — Bone a fine loin of mutton, trim off some 
of the £ait, and beat the mutton with a rolling-pin to flatten it and to 
make it tender. Make a stuffing with a \ lb. of mutton suet chopped 
fine, \ an oz. of sweet almonds boiled ten minutes and pounded to 
paste, an oz. of crumbs of bread, a tea-spoonfiil of chopped parsley, a 
salt-spooniiil of mixed sweet herbs, \ a salt-spoonful of pepper and the 
same of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, a grate or two of 
lemon-peel, and 2 eggs, leaving out one white ; mix these well together, 
and spread the stuffing equally over the inner side of the mutton ; roll 
it neatly lengthways, skewer it up, and roast before a fire, at a distance, 
for an hour and a half, basting continually. Put the bones into a 
saucepan, with a black onion, i shalot, a piece of garlic the size of a 
pea, half a carrot, half a head of celery, and a pint of water ; stew three 
hours. Strain, and add a table-spoonful of baked flour, a dessert- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of soy, half a salt- 
spoonfiil of salt ; boil up for ten minutes ; add a wine-glassfiil of port 
wine. Pour the gravy over the mutton, and serve very hot. 

6. New Potatoes and (7) Spinach, — Rub off" the skin with a rough 
doth ; let them stand half an hour in cold water; put them into boiling 
water with a salt-spoonfiil of salt, and boil about ten minutes. Drain 
quite dry, and serve with an oz. of fresh butter in the centre of the 
potatoes, or on a hot napkin, neatly folded. 

Pick off the stem of each leaf, and avoid using any that are old or 
discoloured; wash the spinach in several waters, and put it into a 
quart of boiling water, with a dessert-spoonftil of salt ; press it down, 
and let it boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten or twelve minutes ; drain it 
through a sieve, and press out all the water ; mince quite fine, and put 
it into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, hali the 
quantity of white pepper, and a tea-spoonfid of sifted sugar ; stir for six 
or eight minutes. Place the spinach on a vegetable-dish, smooth it 
over with a knife, and cut it into triangles ; garnish with fried sippets. 
Cut a slice of bread into small three-cornered pieces, and fry to a pale 
brown colour in plenty of butter or oil 

8. Teal and Sea Kale, — Rub the liver over the breast till red ; roast 
before a very brisk fire, basting frequently with butter (3 oz.) till done, 
from sixteen to twenty-five minutes. Dissolve an oz. ot firesh butter ; 
add to it 3 grains of cayenne and the strained juice 01 2 lemons (for 2 
birds). Score the breast down to the bone at quarter-inch distances; 
pour the sauce over, and serve at once. 

9. Venetian Cream, — Make a cream as directed in the foregoing 
receipt, but instead of flavouring add 8 oz. of apricot jam, or any kind 
of preserved or candied fruit cut into small pieces. Stir till the cream 
begins to set, that the fruit may not sink to the bottom. 



392 THINGS A LADY iVOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

10. American Blancmange. — Peel and pound to a soft paste S or lo 
Brazil nuts ; add a gill of water while pounding ; let this stand for two 
houis to extract the flavour. Beat 4 fresh eggs and mix them into 5 
table-spoonfuls of Osw^o flour ; dissolve 4 oz. of loaf sugar in a pint of 
new milk ; add the nuts ; simmer for Ave minutes : let it stand off the 
fire foT five minutes, then strain it into the eggs, stirring them quickly as 
the milk is added ; stir over a slow fire till it thickens. Pour the 
mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till finnly set 
Turn out carefully, and garnish with preserved mango, guava jelly, or 
preserved ginger. 

1 1. Junior United Pudding. — Cut into slices, a ^ of an inch thick, \ 
a lb. of sponge-cake two days old ; spread one side with fresh butter 
{3 oz. for the whole) and the other with mannalade (^ a lb. for the 
pudding). Boil a oz. of loaf sugar in half a pint of new milk, beat 4 
fresh eggs ; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not boiling. Butter 
a plain tin pint and a half mould, lay in the cake (buttered side next 
the tin) and custard alternately to fiill. Let it stand half an hour to 
soak ; then bake in a well-heated oven for an hour and ten minutes. 
Turn out carefully, and serve with 01 without sauce in the dish. 



FisM. 



FORK CUTLETS WITH 

SAUCE. 
BOILEn FOWL WITH 



Pastry, etc. 
ion pudding. 



13. BOILED BATTER PUDDINC 

15. OMELET, WITH PKESERVE. 
STILTON CHEESE, ETC. 



r. Oxtail Soup. — (Two quarts.) — Have a fine oxtail cut into pieces 
about an inch long, and the thick part again cut into four. Dredge it 
well with flour, and fry it in a ^ of a lb. of good butter till of a nice 
brown colour. Slice and fry in the same butter a carrots, i turnip, a 
onions, } a head of celery, 3 mushrooms, and a piece of garlic as big as 
a pea. When brown, put the whole into a stewpan with a quart of 
water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a salt-spoonful 
of mustard, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, and 6 peppercorns. Boil 
up quickly; skim, then simmer very gently for two hours. Skim off every 
particle of lat ; take out the tail, strain the soup ; add to it 3 pints of 
stock ; put in the tail ; stir in a table-spoonful of soy and \ a grain of 
cayenne. Sinuner three-quarters of an hour longer. Add a large wine- 
glassful of port wine, and serve immediately. 

2. Red MuUd.—^ei\ wash the mullet ; rub each one with a tea- 
spoonful of salad oil, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a \ of a salt-spoonful 
of salt, the same of white pepper, the twelfth part of a nutmeg grated ; 
put them into a dish, and strew over them a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, a shalots finely chopped, and let them saturate for three hours. 
Spread a sheet of foolscap paper (for each mullet) with an oz. of butter; 



394 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

put in the mullet, and roll the edges neatly and closely, to prevent the 
butter escaping, and broil over a gentle fire, or firy in plenty of boiling 
lard, for twenty or twenty-five minutes (according to size). Serve in 
the paper. 

3. Sauce for ditto, — Pound the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs with a 
tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, \ a salt-spoonfiil 
of white pepper, a table-spoonfiil of baked flour, a dessert-spoonful of 
French vinegar, and 3 oz. of dissolved butter; add \ a pint of cold 
water. Rub a saucepan thre^ times across the bottom with fresh-cut 
garlic ; put in the sauce, and stir over a brisk Are till it boils ; add a 
table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Boil up, and serve at once. 

4. JFrkandeau of Veat. — Order the butcher to cut a piece of veal from 
the prime part of the fillet, six inches long and four broad ; trim ofif the 
skin and comers, and make it a compact, neat piece ; lard it deeply with 
good fat bacon all over the top and sides; rub a stewpan six times 
across with fresh-cut garlic ; put in 2 slices of &t bacon, place the veal 
(larding uppermost) on it ; spread a ^ of a lb. of good butter on half a 
sheet of foolscap paper, and place over the veal ; peel and slice a large 
onion, a small carrot, \ a head of celery, 2 large mushrooms, i large 
truflle, and ^ of a small turnip ; put these, with the veal trimmings^ 
round the veal ; add three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a 
nutmeg grated, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, 2 cloves, the thin lind of ^ a 
lemon, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar; boil up quickly, skim, then 
simmer very gently for three hoiurs. Remove the paper, baste the veal, 
and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim 
off all the fat, rub the gravy through a fine sieve ; add the strained juice 
of a lemon, and serve with the gravy in the dish, or with either spinach, 
sorrel, or young green peas, and mixed with a tea-cupfiil of the gravy. 

5. Pork Cutlets with Spanish Sauce, — Have 6 chops off the fore loin 
cut the third of an inch thick ; trim off all the fat Season 3 oz. of fine 
bread-crumbs with \ a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, 
the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, and a salt-spoonful of mixed herbs ; 
dip the cutlets into beaten egg, and then into the crumbs; let them 
stand in an airy place for a quarter of an hour ; dip them again into the 
^gg and crumbs ; place them on a tin dish, with 3 oz. of butter, and 
bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve with the following sauce : 
— Peel and cut up i large Spanish onion, a small dove of garlic, 4 acid 
apples ; put them into a saucepan, with the strained juice of 2 lemons, 
a grain of cayenne, 2 grains of powdered ginger, a table-spoonfiil of 
moist sugar, and stew for an hour, stirring frequently; add a wine- 
glassful of Madeira or sherry, and serve — ^the cutlets round the dish, and 
the sauce in the centre. 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR APRIL. 395 

6. Boiled Fowl with Parsley Sauce, — ^Dip the fowl in hot water for one 
minute, and nib it well over with a cut lemon. This process will make 
it white. Cover the breast with a thin slice oifat bacon ; tie the fowl 
in a clean white doth ; put it into a saucepan (breast uppermost) with 
just sufficient cold water to cover it; boil up quickly, then sinmier 
gently till done. Wash a good bunch of parsley in salted water; dip it 
twice into boiling water ; chop the leaves quite fine ; knead a ^ of a lb. 
of butter with a table-spoonfiil of baked flour, and stir into the third of a 
pint of the water the fowl is boiled in ; simmer Ave minutes : sdr in a 
dessert-spoonful of the chopped parsley ; place the fowl in a hot dish 
(without the bacon), draw out the skewers, pour half of the sauce over 
the breast, and serve the remainder in a tureen, and send to table at 
once. 

7. Tongue. — If a dried tongue, soak it for twelve hours; put the 
tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it ; boil up slowly and 
skim ; simmer very gently till done. A large tongue, to be well done, 
will require six hours from the time of putting it on, and a small one, 
from four to five hours. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the 
rough part of the root Have a nicely cut fiill of foolscap paper, put it 
round the root, fasten it with two small silver skewers, and serve. 

8. Lain of Mutton Roasted, — Place it before a quick bright fire, quite 
close, for ten minutes ; draw it back, and roast slowly at a distance for 
one hour. A few minutes before serving, dredge it with baked flour 
and ^ a salt-spoonful of salt ; baste it well from the beginning. Pom: 
off the dripping, and serve its own gravy, with a little boiling water 
added to it in the dish. 

11. Lemon Pudding. — Haifa lb. of fresh butter beaten to cream, ^ a 
lb. of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, 4 
table-spoonfuls of Oswego, and 6 fresh eggs ; beat the whole together 
for twenty minutes. Make a paste as follows : — Six oz. of sifted flour, 6 
oz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, the yolk of an t^ beaten with 
a wine-glassful of cold water. Rub the butter into flour till quite mixed, 
add the liquid, and knead to a paste ; roll it out the sixth of an inch 
thick. Line a pie-dish, ornament the edge to taste, put in the pudding, 
and bake in a quick oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot or 
cold. 

12. Apple Charlotte. — Pare and cut up 18 good cooking apples; put 
them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sugar, the grated 
rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, 
2 cloves, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil, and stir till in a rich 
marmalade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of 18 Savoy 
biscuits ; butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in 
an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while 



386 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

mushroom chopped, \ a lettuce, 2 cloves, a small blade of mace, 4 
allspice, a salt-spoonful of salt, \ a salt-spoonful of pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of moist sugar, and f of a pint of water ; cover the larding 
with writing paper, thickly spread with butter; simmer as gently as 
possible lor three hours ; take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue 
to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal ; skim off all the fat ; 
and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair sieve ; add a table- 
spoonful of French brandy, or a wine-glassful of sherry, and serve the 
gravy over the veaL 

6. Croquets of Fowl with Piquant Sauce, — Rub 2 oz. of fresh butter 
into 6 oz. of dried flour ; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste ; knead 
till quite smooth, roll it out twice, then let it stand in a cool place for 
five or six hours. Cut up about \ a lb. of cold fowl (roast or boiled) free 
from skin \ .put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece 
of garlic the size of a pea, and \ a pint of water, and stew for gravy ; 
pound the fowl to paste ; add 2 oz. of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, 
pounded ; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, \ a salt-spoonflil 
of white pepper, the grated rind of a ^ of a lemon, \ a salt-spoonful of 
flour of mustard, and a ^ of a salt-spoonful of salt ; add sufficient gravy 
to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are well mixed ; 
roll out the paste the eighth of an inch thick \ divide it into eight equal- 
sized pieces, about three inches square ; brush over the surface with cold 
water ; put an eighth part of the pounded meat into each piece, in the 
form of a sausage ; fold the paste over ; press the edges to make them 
adhere ; then fiy in plenty of boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) 
till of a yellow-brown colour (about ten minutes) ; drain on a sieve 
before the fire, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, with or without 
fried parsley in the centre. 

7. Curried Lobster with Rice, — Take the meat from the shell of 2 mode- 
rate-sized fresh hen lobsters ; cut it into half-inch square pieces ; chop 
quite small a good-sized onion ; knead 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder 
and a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 3 oz. of fresh butter. Fry 
the onion and butter together till nicely browned ; stir in a gill of cocoa- 
nut milk, or thin cream ; put in the lobster, and stir for eight minutes^ 
add a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve on 
a bed of rice. Well wash and boil ^ a lb. of the best rice in a quart of 
water for twenty minutes; drain on a sieve, and separate each grain 
with a wooden fork ; place the rice on the dish in the form of a w^el), 
put the lobster in the centre, and serve with mixed pickles or chutney 
separate. 

8. Roast Capon, — Scrape \ a lb. of lean veal from the fillet, chop a \ 
of a lb. of veal suet, scrape an oz. of lean ham, boil 3 fresh eggs twelve 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR FEBRUARY. 387 

minates ; pound the whole (except the whites of the eggs) till in a paste ; 
season witii \ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, \ a salt-spoonful of flour of 
mu^tardy \ a salt-spoonfiil of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the 
grated rind of ^ a lemon, \ a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a 
tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; add 2 well-beaten eggs ; dean 
and slice 3 truffles, mix them with the stuffing. Raise the skin from the 
upper part of the breast, lay in as much forcemeat as it will contain to 
look well, put the remainder into the body, cover the capon with paper 
spread with butter (3 oz.), and roast before a good fire for an hour and 
a half, basting frequently. Serve with gravy made as directed in the 
preceding receipt 

9. Saddle of Mutton^ Sea Kale, etc. — The saddle should be hung for 
ten days. Dredge it with dry flour ; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly 
spread with sweet dripping ; hang it before a good fire, quite close, for 
twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour 
before serving, take off the paper ; put ^ a salt-spoon of salt into a tea- 
cupful of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightly 
browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. 
Send to table very hoty and with a pot of red currant jelly turned out on 
a plate. 

Note. — ^A saddle, to be underdone, will require only seven minutes 
to the pound ; with the gravy in, ten minutes ; and well done, a quarter 
of an hour. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour for the joint 
(in each case) extra. 

10. Conservative Pudding. — Four oz. of sponge cake, ^ an oz. of 
ratafias, i^ oz. of macaroons. Put them into a basin, and pour over 
\ a gill of rum and a gill of good cream ; add 6 well-beaten eggs ; 
beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with 
preserved cherries ; put in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper 
spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a 
lialf. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with 
almond) in the dish, not poured over the pudding. Three oz. of loaf 
sugar, a laurel leaf, and ^ a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make 
the sauce. 

1 1. Raspberry Cream for ditto, — ^Whip a gill and a half of good cream 
with a small pot of raspberry jam ; strain through a sieve to take out 
the pips ; whip again. 

12. Blancmange. — Have ready the following ingredients : — One oz. of 
the best isinglass, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 2 inches 
of cinnamon, a pint of new milk, a gill of rich cream, 10 bitter and 2 
oz. of sweet almonds ; blanch the almonds and pound them to paste ; 
add by degrees, while pounding, the third of a pint of cold water ; let it 
stand for two hours, then strain off the liquid. Put the milk, sugar. 



398 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

large thick fish, thirty minutes; the same weight from a small fish, 
twenty-five minutes; 4 lbs. of a split fish, twenty minutes; a whole 
fish weighing 7 or 8 lbs., thirty minutes. Serve tiie salmon on a fine 
napkin, neatly rolled round the edges, and with shrimp sauce, unless 
any other be preferred; the quantity, according to the number of 
persons ; three-quarters of a pint is sufficient for five or six. 

Note i. — Skinuning may seem unnecessary ; but if neglected, the 
scum adheres to the fish and destroys the good appearance. If time 
be of consequence, it will be well to boil the fish in a doth as follows : 
— ^Place the fish upon the drainer, throw a large dean cloth over the 
handles, and pin it underneath the plate so as not to touch the fish, but 
to completely cover it. This renders skimming unnecessary. 

Note 2. The liver and roe of salmon are not sent to table. 

3. Shrimp Sauce, — (Three-quarters of a pint) — Have the third of a 
pint of nicely picked fresh-boiled shrimps ; put half of them into a 
mortar, and pound to a smooth paste ; add 3 table-spoonfuls of thick 
fresh cream. Knead 3 oz. of fresh butter with a table-spoonful of 
baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water. Boil eight 
minutes; put in the whole shrimps; simmer three minutes, then stir 
in the shrimp cream. Serve immediately. 

5. VecU Olives. — Scrape \ a lb. of uncooked veal and i oz. of lean 
ham; clean and pound z anchovy; mix well together, and season with 
the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, 
z salt-spoonful of pepper (white), i salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, 
I tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, z dessert-spoonful of Oswego flour, 
z oz. of veal suet finely chopped, and z well-beaten egg. Cut some 
slices of veal ofi" the fillet, as thin as possible^ and trim them into pieces 
four inches and a half long and three wide (six will be required) ; roll 
these flat with the rolling-pin ; have the same number of pieces of bx 
bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent ; divide the force- 
meat into six parts, roll one part in each piece of veal, and over that 
the bacon ; bind them round with tape. Put the six olives into a small 
stewpan with a tea-cupful of good gravy, and simmer for two hours ; 
baste the olives constantly with the gravy ; take them out, remove the 
tape carefully ; put them neatly on a dish ; skim, and strain the gravy ; 
add half a wine-glass of Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; 
pour it over, and serve. 

6. Stewed Brisket of Beef with French Beans. — Have a neatly cut 
square piece of brisket of beef, about 7 lbs. ; hang it before a quick fire 
for half an hour to brown ; baste it well ; put it into a stewpan with 3 
chopped onions fried brown, and sufficient water to reach the top, bat 
not quite cover it; boil up and skim; then add r tea-spoonful of 
pepper, z tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, z dessert-spoonful of soy. 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR MAY, 399 

z table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonful of moist sugar, 2 
table-spoonRils of mushroom ketchup, the eighth part of a nutmeg 
grated, and i dessert-spoonfiil of vinegar ; simmer gently for four hours 
and a half, skimming frequently ; add i lb. of French beans, strung and 
washed in salt and water, but not cut, a wine-glassful of vinegar mixed 
with a table-spoonful of baked flour ; continue to simmer another hour, 
and serve — the beef in the centre, and the beans round the dish. 

7. Jufwly fricasseed in Oil, — Cut up a young fowl into joints, and put 
it into cold water for two hours ; wipe it quite dry. Put i pint of the 
best salad oil into a bright stewpan, and when warm put in the fowl, 
with I tea-spoonful of salt, 2 moderate-sized mushrooms and 3 truffles 
(cleaned and cut up), i shalot, i sprig of thyme, 4 sprigs of parsley, 
and I bay leaf. Boil up quickly, then simmer till the fowl is a pale 
yellow colour (about three-quarters of an hour). Make the following 
sauce: — Clean 12 button mushrooms, chop 2 shalots and i truffle; 
put them into a saucepan with sufficient of the oil the fowl is cooked in 
to well moisten them ; stir over a quick fire for ten minutes. Add i 
salt-spoonful of salt, i salt-spoonful of sifted sugar, the juice of i lemon 
(strained), and ^ a gill of Marsala. Drain the fowl on a cloth, place it 
neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and send to table immediately. 

8. Boiled Leg of Lamb, — Put the lamb into sufficient cold water just 
to cover it; boil up quickly; skim; then simmer as gently as possible 
till done, allowing nineteen minutes to the pound, after it boils. When 
it has sinmiered three-quarters of an hour, add i dessert-spoonful of 
salt Serve with caper sauce made as follows : — Take \ pint of the 
liquor the lamb is boiled in ; stir into it 3 oz. of butter, kneaded with i 
table-spoonful of baked flour ; boil ten minutes ; chop i table-spoonfiil 
of capers; add these; then stir in i table-spoonful of thick cream. 
Place the lamb on a hot dish, the skin downwards ; pour over half of 
the sauce, and the remainder serve in a tureen; garnish with young 
carrots and mashed or whole young turnips. 

9. Caper Sauce. — ELnead i oz. of butter with i table-spoonful of dried 
flour, and stir into \ pint of the liquor the mutton is boiled in ; add i 
table-spoonfiil of capers, i tea-spoonfiil of vinegar ; boil ten minutes, 
and pour over the mutton. Carrots and turnips may be boiled with 
the mutton ; the carrots require two hours, the turnips one. 

10. Mashed Turnips, — ^Prepare and boil 6 turnips; press out all the 
water, and rub the turnips through a wire sieve; put them into a 
stewpan with ^ gill of thick cream and i salt-spoonful of salt ; stir till 
boiling hot, then serve. Smooth over the top with a knife, and cut 
into triangles. 

Note. — ^A tea-spoonfiil of sifted sugar is an improvement, if not 
objected to. 



400 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

II. Cauliflower, — ^Trim and wash the cauliflower; divide it into 
branches, and leave it in cold water for two hours. Place the flower 
upon a drainer ; put it into boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt, 
and boil (uncovered) for a quarter of an hour. Drain and serve, with 
the following sauce poured over : — Beat the yolks of 2 fresh ^gs with 
^ a gill of thick cream, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling 
milk for three minutes. 

13. Braised Duck, with young Peas. — Chop quite small 4 spring 
onions, 2 sage leaves, and 4 sprigs of parsley; season with half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, and the tenth 
part of a nutmeg grated. ELnead these with* i oz. of butter, and put it 
into the body of the duck ; spread 3 oz. of butter over the breast ; lay- 
on the bottom of the stewpan 4 laige leaves of fresh-cut lettuce ; place 
the duck upon them, cover closely, and let it bruise or simmer till of a 
pale brown colour (about half an hour) ; then add three-quarters of a pint 
of stock or plain veal gravy. Continue to simmer for twenty minutes ; 
then take out the duck, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes ; 
skim the gravy, and rub it through a fine sieve ; put it back into the 
stewpan, with rather more than i pint of fresh-shelled young peas, 
I tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, and i salt-spoonful of salt; boil rapidly 
(uncovered) for ten minutes ; put in the duck, and simmer gently for 
twenty-five minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish ; pull out the 
skewers ; pour the peas and gravy into the dish, and serve at once. 

14. Asparagus Pudding,— CmI up the nice green tender parts of 
asparagus about the size of peas ; put them into a basin with the ^^s, 
which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and 
salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufficient 
milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter ; put it 
into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, 
place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours ; turn it out of the 
mould on to a hot dbh, and pour plain melted butter round, but not 
over, the pudding. 

16. Gooseberry Charlotte, — Equal weight of gooseberries and loaf 
sugar; boil and stir till in a soft rich pulp, then rub through a fine 
sieve. Stone the plums, blanch the kernels, put them with the fruit 
and two-thirds of the weight of loaf sugar, and boil till b a rich jam 
(whether greengages or apricots), and put in a mould till cold. 

17. Lemon Cream, — Dissolve \ a lb. of loaf sugar and three-quarters 
of an ounce of isinglass in i gill of water; add the thin rind and 
strained juice of 2 lemons ; boil and skim till it becomes a bright rich 
syrup, then strain, and whisk it into i pint and i gill of thick, sweet 
cream till it begins to thicken ; pour it into a mould, and place it on 
ice till firmly set 





JUNE. 




Soups. 




6. 


LAMB CUTLETS, WITH WHITE 


I. PRAWN SOUP. 




7- 
8. 


R^TPIOEONS 


i. TAPIOCA SOUP. 




FORE-QUARTEB OF LAMB. 


FlSK. 




9. 


PEAS, SPINACH, POTATOES. 


3. FRIED SALMON, WIT 


\ TARTAR 


It. 


BRAISED DUCK, WITH TURNIPS 


4. STE^VEU WHITING. 




13- 


PRINCE Albert's pudding. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 


Entrees. 




14. 
15. 


GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. 


5. SWEETBREAD, WITH TRUFFLES. 




CHEESE, SALAD, ETC. 



I. Prawn Soup. — (Three quarts.) — Have a fine hen lobster and 50 
prawns quite fresh boiled ; cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, 
and put it with the shells into a stewpan, with an onion sliced, z oz. of 
butter, and a quart of water. Boil for one hour, then add 3 quarts of 
stock. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of dry flour with \ a pint of cold stock, 
and stir into the soup till it thickens ; then boil half an hour longer, 
and strain through a sieve. Take off the shells carefully, and put the 
prawns into the soup; boil up for six minutes. Add J of a pint of 
sweet, thick cream, and serve immediately, 

a. Tapioca Si>up.^{Two quarts.) — Well wash 3 oz, of tapioca ; rub a 
stewpan across the bottom three times with garlic ; put in the tapioca, 
-n-ith 5 pints of stock, and boil for two hours, stirring frequently. Add 
a wine-glassful of Marsala, and serve at once. 

3. J^ied Salmon, with Tartar Sauce. — Two slices of salraon three- 
quarters of an inch thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fish, 
will be sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Wash the salmon in water with a ' 
handful of salt in i^ and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Season 1 oz. 
of fine crumbs of bread with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a 
quarter of a spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley. Dissolve a 02. of butter ; dip in the fish, and strew 
it over with crumbs. Fry in ^ a lb. of boiling butter or lard over a gentle 



402 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. Drain, and serve on a cold dish, 
with the following sauce in the centre : — Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, 
and, when quite cold, pound the yolks to powder. Mix in a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a quarter of a grain 
of cayenne ; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in (alwajrs turning 
the same way) till quite smooth ; then add, drop by drop, seven table- 
spoonfuls of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, 3 tea-spoonfuls of taiiagon 
vinegar, and 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar. Set the mortar in 
a cold place, or on ice for an hour; then stir in a tea-spoonful of 
finely-chopped chives or shalot, and serve as directed. 

Note. — The sauce should be made half an hour before the fish is 
commenced. It should be perfectly smooth, and of the consistency of 
very thick cream, which entirely depends on the care in making. 

4. Stewed Whiting. — ^Take off the skin and the heads and tails ; \xf 
the fish in a stewpan, and season each one with a quarter of a salt-spoon- 
fill of salt, I grain of white pepper, a quarter of a salt-spoonfiil of mixed 
sweet herbs in powder, and for the whole (4 or 6) the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Pour in a ^ lb. of dissolved butter ; simmer for ten 
minutes ; add a laxge wine-glassful of Marsala, and the strained juice of 
a lemon. Simmer five minutes more ; place the fish neatly on a hot 
dish, and pour the sauce over. Send to table immediately. 

5. Sweetbread^ with Tmffles, — Blanch the sweetbreads in boiling water 
five minutes, and in cold for one hour; remove the fat, skin, and pith ; 
dry them, and dredge them lightly with baked flour ; place them on a 
tin dish, baste well with dissolved butter (a \ lb.), and bake till nicely 
browned, about half an hour. Feel and slice 6 firesh truffles ; put them 
into a stewpan, with a gill of Marsala, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonfiil of white pepper, the strained juice of a large lemon. Sinuner 
ten minutes ; add a gill of stock. Elnead a dessert-spoonful of baked 
flour with 2 oz. of butter, and stir in for five minutes. Put in the sweet- 
breads, and continue to simmer half an hour longer, then serve. 

6. Lanib Cutlets^ with White Sauce. — Cut up any joint of cold roast 
lamb into slices the third of an inch thick; trim them into neatly- 
formed cutlets ; season 4 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, 2 salt-spoonfuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of 
mixed sweet herbs (in fine powder), a table-spoonful of finely-chopped 
parsley, and the sixdi part of a nutmeg grated ; beat z egg, dissolve i 
oz. of butter. Dip the cutlets into the butter, then into the crumbs ; 
let them stand in a cool place for ten minutes, then dip them into the 
cggy s^<l again into the crumbs, and fiy in 2 oz. of dissolved butter for 
ten minutes. Place the cutlets round the dish, and serve, with the 
sauce made as follows : — ^Put the bones of the lamb into a saucepan 
with a pint of cold water, a small onion, 2 cloves, a bay leaf, 4 sprigs 



^ PARTY' DINNER FOR JUNE. 403 

of parsley, and boil till reduced to the third of a pint ; knead i oz. of 
butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil five 
minutes, then strain. Put the sauce again into the saucepan ; add the 
well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; simmer for two minutes, and serve in the 
centre of the cutlets. 

7. Roast Pigeons. — Knead together 2 oz. of butter, 2 dessert-spoon- 
fuls of dried fine crumbs of bread, a grain of cayenne, a ^ of a 
salt-spoonfiil of salt, the same of pepper, a salt-spoonful of chopped 
parsley> the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and i small shalot finely 
chopped. Have 2 young pigeons, and put half of the stuffing into 
each; roast before a very quick fire for fifteen or eighteen minutes, 
basting constantly with butter. Serve with or without gravy. 

8. Fore-quarter of Lamb, — ^This joint should weigh about 9 lbs. 
Cover it with white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping (or 
butter), hang it before a large fire, and roast for two hours and a 
quarter, constantly basting. Three-quarters of an hour before serving, 
take ofif the paper ; dredge the lamb slightly with baked flour ; con- 
tinue to baste till of a delicate brown colour in every part ; just before 
taking it up, baste with i oz. of dissolved butter. Place the joint on a 
hot dish, and, with a sharp knife, divide the shoulder from the ribs ; 
rub the ribs over with a thin slice of fresh butter (about i oz.), and 
drop equally over the strained juice of a small lemon, then replace the 
shoulder. Pour ofif the fat ; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a 
salt-spoonfiil of salt to the gravy dripped firom the lamb ; pour the 
gravy into the dish (not over the meat), and send to table immediately 
with mint sauce in a tureen, and a separate hot dish to receive the 
shoulder. 

9. Mint Sauce. — Chop the leaves of firesb, well-washed mint quite 
fine ; mix equal quantities of mint, moist sugar, and good vinegar, about 
2 table-spoonfuls of each. 

II. Braised Duck, with Turnips. — ^Peel 8 or 10 small turnips; sift a 
dessert-spoonfid of loaf sugar over them ; dissolve 6 oz. of butter, and 
fry the turnips to a pale brown colour (in a stewpan) ; add 2 oz. more 
butter, and an onion chopped ; put in, breast downwards, a fine duck, 
and let it remain to brown for twenty minutes. Take out the duck, 
stir into the butter 2 dessert-spoonfiils of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of 
soy, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonfid of pepper, and three- 
quarters of a pint of any good stock. Boil fast, and skim off all the 
fat ; then add a wine-glassful of Marsala and the strained juice of a 
lemon; put in the duck, breast uppermost, and simmer gendy for 
twenty minutes; add the turnips, and continue to simmer twenty 
minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish, the turnip round it, and 
the gravy poured over. Serve at once. 



404 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

12. Prince Alberts Pudding. — Half a lb. of butter beaten to cream, 
\ a lb. of dried flour, ^ of a lb. of sifted loaf sugar, \ a lb. of raisins 
stoned and chopped, a ^ of a lb. of mixed candied peel chopped, half 
a wine-glassful oi brandy, the grated rind of half a lemon, a gill of new 
milk, and 4 beaten eggs; mix these ingredients, and beat for ten 
minutes. Butter a mould, put in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and 
boil fast for two hours. Serve with clarified sugar, flavoured with 
brandy. Boil 3 oz. of sugar in a wine-glassful of water for ten minutes ; 
add a wine-glassful of brandy. Four the sauce over the pudding. 

13. Raspberry Jelly. — ^Pick and wash m cold water \ a pint of ripe 
red currants apd i^ pints of ripe raspberries ; squeeze out the juice 
without bruising the seeds (as that would make the juice bitter) ; strain 
through muslin. Dissolve 9 oz. of loaf sugar and i^ oz. of isinglass in 
I of a pint of water ; add this to the juice while hot, but not boiling ; 
add, when nearly cold, a small wine-glassful of any kind of spirit ; strain 
through a jelly-bag till quite bright Ornament the top of the mould 
with fine raspberries, pour in the jelly, and let it remain in a cool place, 
or on ice, till firmly set 

14. Gooseberry Trifle. — Cut up 6 oz. of sponge-cake into slices half 
an inch thick ; lay it on the bottom of a glass dish that will hold 3 
pints. Mix together a wine-glassful and a half of brandy, half a wine- 
glassful of whisky, half a wine-glassful of gin, and a table-spoonful of 
sifted loaf sugar ; pour this equally over the cake, and let it soak while 
the following preparations are made: — Pick, wash, and wipe dry a 
quart of fine green gooseberries \ put them into a brass skillet, with \ 
of a lb. of loaf sugar, and simmer over a very slow fire till they are 
quite tender, but not broken ; turn them into a basin to get cold. Boil 
a ^ of a lb. of loaf sugar and the thin peel of half a lemon in a pint of 
new milk ; moisten 2 table-spoonfiils of Oswego flour with \ a gill of 
cold milk ; add 4 well-beaten fresh eggs ; beat for 5 minutes, then stir 
in the milk while hot, but not boiling ; pour the mixture into the skillet, 
and stir over a very slow fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it into 
a basin. Take out the peel ; stir frequently, and when nearly cold add 
30 drops of the essence of vanilla \ lay the gooseberries on the cake, 
smooth the surface, and pour over the cream ; let it stand in a cool 
place three hours before serving. 

15. American Blcmcmange. — Dissolve 7 oz. of loaf sugar and x oz. of 
isinglass in a pint of water ; add the grated rind of half a Seville orange 
and X lemon, with the strained juice of both, and the almonds. Simmer 
for ten minutes, then strain into a basin ; beat the yolks of 7 fresh eggs, 
add these, and stir over the fire till at boiling heat Strain the mixture 
into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till it is firmly set 



4- VEAL AND HAU CUTLETS, \ 

5. BROILED sheep's kidneys. 



6. RISSOLES OF FOWL. 

7. ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 
SALAD, FRENCH BEANS, POTATOES. 

8. LEVERET. 



. SPONGE-CAKES, WITH APPLE SNOW. 
!. CHEESE PONDU. 

CHEESE, SALAD, 



1. Creey Soup. — Scrape, peel, and wash g carrots, 2 onions, and i a 
head of celery ; put them into a saucepan with a quart and half a pint of 
cold water, a table-spoonful of flinegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar, and a grain of cayenne. Boil for two hours and a 
quarter ; breaV up the vegetables in the water, and, when they are quite 
in a pulp, mb the whole through a fine hair sieve j stir into the v^- 
tables 2 oz. of good butter. Add a quart and half a pint of stock. Put 
the whole into a stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire for twenty minutes ; 
then serve. 

2. Stdmon Cutleis, viik Sauce. — Have 4 slices, the third of an inch 
thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fish, strip off the skin, 
take out the bone, and cut each slice into two. Wash and well dry 
each piece. Mix a table-spoonful of baked flour with a salt-spoonful of 
salt and a tea-spoonfiil of cuny powder, and put it into a dredger. 
Dissolve 2 oz. of butter in a soup plate, rubbed three times across with 
garlic. Dip in the cutlets, dredge them with the seasoned flour, and 
fiy in boiling butter (J of a lb.) for twelve minutes. Serve with the 
sauce in the dish. 

3. Whitebait. — (From April to August.) — ^This fish should be put 
into iced water as soon as bought, if not cooked at once. Drain them 



4o6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, 
over which put 2 good handfiils (^ flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake 
them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker sieve to take away 
the superfloous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few 
at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour (about three 
minutes). Directly they aie done they nmst be taken out and laid 
before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve reversed, covered with 
blotting-paper to absorb the fat Dish them on a hot napkin ; arrange 
the fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over the whole. 

4. Veal and Ham Cutlets^ with Tartar Sauce. — Pound | of a lb. of cold 
roast veal and a ^ lb. of lean ham or tongue ; season with a salt-spoonful 
of pepper, a ^ of a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, 
^ a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, a salt-spoonfiil of anchovy sauce, 
the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice ; add a table-spoonful of 
veal gravy, 2 oz. of dissolved butter ; mix well, and form the paste into 
neat cutlets ; dip each into dissolved butter, and dredge them with dried 
flour ; then dip them into beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs ; 
do this twice or thrice. Place them on a tin dish, with a piece of 
butter the size of a nut on each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter 
of an hour. Beat the hard yolks of 3 eggs to a powder, with ^ a salt- 
spoonful of salt, ^ a salt-spoonfiil of pepper, and a salt-spoonful of flour 
of mustard ; beat the yolk of an egg, and stir it into the rest ; add, drop 
by drop, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad oil, then a salt-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of white vinegar ; beat it till in a thick 
cream; add a tearspoonful of finely -chopped chives, or shalot and 
gherkin if chives are not to be had. Place the cutlets round the dish, 
and the cold sauce in the centre. 

Note. — ^The sauce should be made two hours before serving, and pot 
in a cool place. Cream may be used instead of oil, if preferred. 

5. Broiled Sheep*s Kidneys. — ^Take off the skin and cut the kidneys in 
half; put them on an iron skewer ; dip them into oiled butter ; sprinkle 
them slightly with pepper and salt; put them on a gridiron, over a 
bright fire, and broil for eight or ten minutes ; withdraw the skewer, 
and serve on a very hot dish. 

6. Rissoles of Fowl. — Cut up about \ lb. of cold fowl; put the bones 
and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, 
an inch of thin lemon peel, an inch of laiurel leaf, and a pint of stock or 
water; boil fast till reduced to a gill of strong gravy, then strain. 
Chop the fowl and 2 oz. of ham or tongue till quite fine ; season with 
a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonfiil of chopped parsley, ^ a 
salt-spoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and a dessert- 
spoonful of baked flour ; stir in sufficient gravy to moisten the meat ; 
put it into a basin, and let it stand three hours to become firm. Make 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR JULY. 407 



the meat up into 6 equal-sized balls ; dredge them lightly with dry flour ; 
dip them into beaten e^, then into dried crumbs ; do this a second 
time, then fly in boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) till of a pale 
yellow-brown colour (about eight minutes). Serve with a bunch of flied 
parsley in the centre. Lay the parsley in salt and water for an hour or 
more ; drain, then dip it twice into the boiling fat after the rissoles are 
done ; put it before the flre on a sieve for two minutes. 

Note. — ^A stewpan is better than a flying-pan for all things requiring 
to be boiled in fat, and where a proper pan is not possessed. 

7. Roast Shoulder of Mution.-^CMt out the vein firom the under part ; 
allow sixteen minutes to the lb., as a shoulder is generally liked well done; 
hang it belore a good fire, and baste constandy. Half an hour before 
serving, dredge it with a little dried flour, sprinkle over \ a salt-spoonflil 
of salt, and continue to baste ; pour ofl* all the fiit ; add a tea-cupful of 
boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton ; pour it on 
the dish, and serve very hot. Sauce: — Boil 4 onions in plenty of 
water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it, for half an hour : press out the 
water, chop the onions quite flne, boil them small; add ^ an oz. of 
butter. Serve in a tureen. 

8. Z«w<rf.-— Leverets may be stufied or not, either is equally correct 
If stufled, prepare the following : — Chop 2 oz. of veal suet and enough 
parsley to fill a tea-spoon ; mix it with an oz. of fine crumbs of bread, 
the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, \ a salt-spoonflil of salt, a ^ of a 
salt-spoonful of white pepper, the peel of a ^ of a lemon grated, a 
dessert-spoonflil of rum, and i firesh egg ; beat well, and put it into the 
body of the leveret; sew it up. Spread a sheet of paper thickly with 
butter (a \ lb.), secure it round the leveret, and roast before a very brisk 
fire for three-quarters of an hour ; baste frequently with fresh lard (a \ 
lb.) ; ten minutes before serving, remove the paper, dredge lightly "with 
baked flour, and baste with fresh butter. Serve very hot, with the 
following gravy : — Boil f of a pint of stock for ten minutes ; stir in an 
oz. of butter, kneaded with a table-spoonfiil of baked flour ; boil fast 
ten minutes more ; add a wine-glassfiil of port wine ; serve a little in 
the dish and the rest in a tureen ; send currant jelly to table also. 

9. Pudding for a Prince. — Blanch 6 bitter and 2 oz. of sweet almonds ; 
boil them twenty minutes in the third of a pint of new milk, then 
pound them to a paste; when the milk is nearly cold, add 4 well- 
beaten fre^h eggs, ^ a gill of thick cream, and a table-spoonfuls of 
brandy ; rub 6 oz. of stale sponge-cake to crumbs. Mix these ingre- 
dients well, and beat for ten minutes ; stir in 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. 
Butter a mould ; stick it round in Vandykes with dried cherries ; pour 
in the mixture, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and 
steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and three^uarters. Turn out 



4o8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

carefully, and serve immediately, with the sauce in the dish or in a 
tureen. 

10. Fruit Trataparetuy, — Press out the juice of a quart of red or 
white cuirants ; strain it through a fine sieve into a brass skillet ; add 
\ lb. of loaf sugai and \ oz. of isinglass ; boil and slum till it is per- 
fectly bright and rather thick, about twenty minutes ; pour it into a 
pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit ; put it in a cool place, 
or on ice, till quite firm. Turn out carefiilly, and serve, with or without 
Devonshire or other cream round as a garnish. 

Note. — If red currant juice be used, then let the whole fruit be either 
red currants, raspberries, or red cherries ; if white currant, either straw- 
berries or white currants. 

11. Sfitmge-caka, with Apple Snow. — Put 6 sponge.cakes into a glass 
dish, and pour over them | of a pint of good cream, or Bright's 
vegetable custard. Let them soak for two or three hours. Roast 8 
large apples till quite soft ; take away the skin and core, and add to ^ a 
lb. ol apple pulp, ^ lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the strained juice 
of a lemon, and the whites of 2 eggs ; beat with a whisk till in a snow- 
like froth. Flace it on the cakes, and serve at once. 

13. Cheese Fondu. — Grate 6 oz. of rich cheese (Pannesan is the best); 
put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a tea-spoonfiil of flour of 
mustard, a salt-spoonful ot white pepper, a grain of cayenn^ the sixth 
part ol a nutmeg grated, 3 oz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of baked 
floui, and a gill of new milk ; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes like 
smooth thick cream (but it must not boil) ; add the well-beaten yolks 
of 6 eggs ; beat for ten minutes, then add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stifl froth ; pour the mixture in'o a tin, or a cardboard mould, and 
bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 



AUGUST. 



2. FILLETS OF SOLES, WITH WHIT 

3. EELS, WITH TARTAR SAUCE, 

I. J^oek Turtle Soup. — Clean and split a fine ox-foot ; put it into an 
iron pot with sixpenny worth of fresh beef bones, ^ a lb. of gammon of 
bacoD, 3 onions, 2 carrots, I tumip, i head of celery, a small bunch of 
sweet herbs, 4 sprigs of parsley, 2 sage leaves, i bay leaf, i laurel leaf, 
3 cloves, 4 allspice, i blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, a grain of cayenne, 
a table-spoonful of brown sugar, and 4 quarts of cold water. Simmer 
gendy and skim frequently for six hours. Take out the foot ; cut off 
the meat, in pieces an inch square ; dredge them with highly-baked 
flour. Put back the booes and rough pieces, and boil another hour. 
Rub the bottom of a frying-pan four times across with fresh-cut garlic ; 
dissolve 6 oz. of butter, and fry the pieces of foot to a nice brown 
colour. Stir into the butter 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonfut of soy, a tea-spoonful ol 
anchovy sauce, and a tea-spoonfiil of flour of mustard ; add half a pint 
of the soup, and when nicely browned stir it into the whole. Boil fast 
for a quarter of an hour, then strain through a fine sieve. Put in the 
meat, and simmer for half an hour ; add the strained juice of a large 
lemon and a wine-glassful -of Marsala : serve immediately. 

a. Fillett of Sola, with White Saua.—Oit 2 soles into 8 fillets ; place 
them in a stewpan nibbed 6 times across the bottom with garlic ; pour 
over a J of a lb. of dissolved butter ; add a salt-spoonful of salt, half a 
salt-spoonfid of white pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, the 



4IO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

grated rind of half a lemon, and i shalot chopped as fine as possible ; 
simmer ten minutes. Add a wine-glassful of white wine and the 
strained juice of a lemon ; simmer five minutes m(xe, then serve with 
the following sauce poured over : — Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 
a gill of good cream ; strain the sauce in which tbe fish was stewed, 
skim off the butter, mix the sauce with the cream, and stir it over the 
fire till it thickens. 

3. Eds^ with Tartar Sauce. — Have an eel weighing a pound and a 
half; skin it, and cut off the fins j put it into boiling water, with a 
table-spoonfiil of vinegar and a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and let it remain 
five minutes ; cut it into three-inch lengths, and roll it in a clean doth 
to dry. Make a batter as follows : — Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and mix 
with 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour ; add an oz. of dissolved butter 
and Uie third of a pint of tepid water ; beat quickly for ten minutes ; 
let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff firoth, and add to the batter ; continue to beat for ten 
minutes. Dip the eel into the batter, then fry it in boiling lard (enough 
to cover it) till of a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes) : drain 
on a cloth before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold 
dish, and serve with the following sauce in the centre : — Rub the hard- 
boiled yolks of 3 eggs to a powder; add a salt-spoonfiil of flour of 
mustard, \ a salt-spoonful of salt, ^ a grain of cayenne, and the beaten 
yolk of I egg ; sdr in, drop by drop, 4 table-spoonfiils of Lucca oil, 2 
tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and i table-spoonfiil of French 
vinegar ; continue to stir till the sauce becomes a thick cream ; chop 
quite fine i shalot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and i small 
gherkin ; stir these into the sauce, and serve (cold). 

4. Sweetbreads^ Mushrooms^ and Fotato-BaUs.-^rdicx a 2 lb. loaf to 
be baked in an oval cake-tin; let it be one day old. Cut off the 
top above the tin; scoop out the crumb, leaving three-quarters of 
an inch all round and at the bottom ; be veiy carefiil not to make 
a hole anywhere. Now pare off the crust, and dip the case into 
oiled butter {\ a lb.), and put it into the oven for twenty minutes ; 
re-dip it in the butter, and let it remain in the oven till of a pale, 
bright, brown coloiu*. Cut off the pith and skin of 2 sweetbreads, 
and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; cut each into 
equal-sized pieces, and throw them into cold water for an hour; 
take them out, wipe them dry, and dredge over a dessert-spoontul 
of baked flour. Rub a bright stewpan with garlic (four times across 
the bottom) ; put in 2 oz. of butter, the sweetbreads, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 
the thin rind of half a lemon, 4 sprigs of parsley, a laurel leaf, a bay 
lea^ ^ a blade of mace, 2 cloves, the strained juice of a lemon, 2 table- 



^ PARTY' DINNER FOR AUGUST. 411 

spoonfuls of white wine, and a tea-cupfU of veal stock ; boil up quickly; 
skim; then simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take out 
the sweetbreads ; skim and strain the sauce ; add the yolks of 2 eggs 
beaten with a gill of thick cream ; boil two minutes. Take off the 
skin of 20 button mushrooms ; throw them into a pint of boiling water, 
with a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil &st 
for twelve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Boil 4 potatoes ; add half a 
salt-spoonfiil of salt, an oz. of fresh butter, a ^ of a gill of cream, and i 
well-beaten egg; beat with a wooden spoon till light; make up the 
potatoes into balls the size of a marble ; dip each into beaten tggy and 
put them into fast-boiling milk for two minutes, then drain on a sieve. 
Put the sweetbreads, mushrooms, and potato-balls in alternate layers 
into the bread case, and pour the sauce over ; serve quite hot, with a 
neatly-rolled napkin on the dish. 

Note. — ^Make a paste; roll it out the last time an inch and a 
quarter thick; cut it with a vol-au-vent cutter six inches in diameter. 
Make an incision a quarter of an inch deep with a cutter an inch 
smaller ; bake about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the centre. 

5. Sirloin of Beef . — Beef should be kept a week or ten days when 
the weather will permit Wipe the joint with a clean cloth ; envelope 
it in thin paper, thickly spread with sweet beef-dripping; place the 
screen before the fire half an hour before putting down the beef; hang 
the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour near; baste ; 
then withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast slowly till done ; baste 
frequently from the commencement Half an hour before serving take 
off the paper, dredge the beef slightly with baked flour, and baste it 
with 2 oz. of dissolved butter ; place the beef on a hot dish ; pour the 
dripping off; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and half a salt-spoonful 
of salt to the gravy dripped from the beef; pour it into the dish ; 
garnish with horseradish, and serve at once. The time as follows : — 
To be underdone, eleven minutes to the pound ; with the gravy in, 
fourteen minutes; to be well done through, seventeen minutes; in 
frosty weather, two minutes to the pound must be added in each 
case. 

' Note. — Horseradish, scraped or grated, should always be served 
with roast beef. 

6. Zandrina Pudding, — Beat 6 oz. of butter to cream ; stir into it, by 
degrees, 6 oz. oi dried flour, 6 oz. of sifted sugar, and the beaten yolks 
of 6 fresh eggs ; when well mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a fi'oth and a wine-glassful of raspberry syrup ; beat for ten minutes. 
Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for 
an hour and a half, or bake in a moderate oven a quarter of an hour 
less. Serve, with raspberry cream poured over the pudding. 



413 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

7 . Rice letters. — Wash and drain dry 3 oz. of the best rice ; put it 
into a saucepan with 3 oz. of sugar, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, an inch 
of cinnamon, and nearly a pint of millc ; boil (stirring frequently) for 
three-quarters of an hour, then rub through a fine wire sieve. Beat 
3 fresh eggs, yolks and whites separateljr ; add the yolks ; beat for ten 
minutes, then add the whites; beat five minutes more, then &y in 
butter (in a small omelet-pan) till of a golden colour on both sides. 
Drain before the fire; sift fine loaf sugar over, and serve on a neatly- 
folded napkin. 

Note. — The quantity given will make five frittets \\ of an oz. of 
butter will be required for each. 

8. Savoury Macaroni. — Put into an enamelled saucepan S oz. of 
Genoa macaroni, 3 pints of cold water, and a dessert-spoonful of salt ; 
place it over a gentle fire, and simmer for twenty minutes, then drain 
on a sieve. Put the macaroni again into the saucepan with a quart of 
stock, and simmer till it is quite tender (about an hour and three- 
quarters) ; stir in an oz. of butter, 3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a 
tea-spoonfuls of flour of mustard, 3 grains of cayenne, and a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper ; lay it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan 
cheese thickly over (3 oz.) ; on that lay an oz. of butter in small pieces ; 
bake in a quick oven, 01 before the fire, till of a pale brown colour 
(from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot 



SEPTEMBER. 



Entrees. 

4. veal cutlets in fafer. 

5. fowl, with savourv macaronl 



P PORK, WITH ITALIAN 



BRUSSELS 
SPROUTS, POTATOES. 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

HARASCtKNO SYRUP. 
DEVILLED BISCUITS, CRATED. 
CHEESE, SALAD, PULLED BREAD, 
ETC. 



1. While Soup. — Boil a knuclcle of veal in water, with seasoning, 
reducing it to 3 or 4 pints. For thickening, stir over the fire a little 
ground rice into a pint of milk, to which add a little salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of good cream. Boit up all together before serving, stirring 
carefully. 

2. I^ied Cod and Oysters. — Cut the cod into slices three-quarters of 
an inch thick ; rub each slice with a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and let it remain for two hours. Wipe it dry ; dredge 
it over with baked flour, and fry in butter, over a slow fire, eighteen or 
twenty minutes. Make a batter with J a pint of milk, 3 table-spoonfuls 
of baked flour, and i egg. Beat it well ; wipe the oysters (3 dozen) ; 
put them into the batter. When the cod is done, fry the oysters fiar five 
minutes in butter ; lay them round the cod ; pour the butter over, and 
serve at once. Fried slices- of cod may also be served with 2 shalots 
finely chopped, and the strained juice of a lemon poured over. Three 
slices of cod and 3 dozen of oysters will require a J lb. of butter. 
Enough to serve six or eight persons. 

3. Mayonnaise of ZtfJrf^r,— Take out the meat of two moderate- 
sized fresh-boiled hen lobsters, and cut it into inch squares. Orna- 
ment the top with crawfish, and cucumber sliced. 



414 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

4. Veal Cutlets in Paper, — ^An oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of fat bacon, 
a small shalot, a good sprig of parsley, a laige mushroom (or a truffle), 
all very finely chopped ; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the 
tenth part of a nutmeg, a salt-spoonfiil of mixed sweet herbs, half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Cut 3 chops off 
the best end of the neck of veal, just as thick as the bone ; take off the 
skin and the chine part of the bone ; butter 3 sheets of small foolscap 
paper with 3 oz. of butter ; dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip the cudets into 
it, and then into the seasoned crumbs ; lay each on a sheet of paper, 
and boil slowly in plenty of lard for an houf. Drain on a sieve before 
the fire, and serve in the paper. 

5. Fowl, with Savoury Macaroni. — Put 6 oz. of the best Genoa maca- 
roni into 3 pints of cold water, and let it remam two hours. Cut up a 
cold fowl ; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with an onion 
sliced, half a carrot, 3 sprigs of parsley, i clove^ a tea-spoonful of salt, a 
tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of grated cheese, a 
grain of cayenne, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea ; pour in a quait 
of cold water or any light stock ; boil for two hours, then strain ; lay 
the macaroni carefully into a stewpan, with 3 oz. of butter ; pour over 
the gravy, and simmer till tender (about an hour and a half). Season 
the fowl (f of a lb.) witli a salt-spoonfiil of salt, the same of white 
pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg grated ; dredge it lightly with 
baked flour, and fry to a nice yellow colour (ten minutes) in olive oil (a 
gill), or dissolved butter ( a ^ of a lb.). Lay the macaroni round the 
dish in the form of a wall ; add half a wine-glassful of Marsala to the 
gravy ; place the fowl in the centre ; pour over the gravy, and send to 
table at once. 

6. Leg of Porky with Italian Sauce. — Have a leg of very small pork j 
roast it before a good fire, at a distance, for two hours, and serve with the 
sauce, made as follows, poured over : — ^Wash, scrape, and remove the 
bone of i anchovy; peel 2 shalots and a piece of garlic the size of a pea; 
wash 3 sprigs of parsley ; chop these as fine as possible, and put them 
into a saucepan with \ an oz. of butter ; stir over the fire till the shalot 
is tender ; add a tea-spoonful of baked flour, a table-spoonful of vinegar, 
a gill of strong stock, a tea-spoonful of capers chopped, half a salt- 
spoonfiil of pepper, half a salt-spoonful of mustard ; boil ten minutes; 
strain ; put the sauce again into the saucepan ; boil it up ; add a table- 
spoonful of white wine, and serve immediately. 

7. Koast Partridges. — Hang the birds before a brisk fire ; baste con- 
stantly with butter. Serve garnished with fried crumbs, and with gravy 
and bread sauce in tureens. Put 3 oz. of crumbs of bread into a snoall 
frying-pan or stewpan, with i^ oz. of butter, and fiy over a gende fire 
(stirring all the time) till of a pale yellow brown colour; drain on a 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR SEPTEMBER, 415 

sieve before the fire. Put a ^ of a lb. of crumbs of bread into a stew- 
pan, with I clove, 2 allspice, 3 shalots, and three-quarters of a pint of 
milk ; boil, and stir for a quarter of an hour^ then rub through a sieve. 
Put the sauce again into the saucepan ; add either 2 table-spoonfiils of 
thick cream or i oz. of fresh butter; boil two minutes, tiien serve. 
Put a pint of stock into a saucepan with a tea-spoonful of soy, a table- 
spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of flour, half a salt-spoonful 
of salt, half a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a grain of cayenne. 
Boil quickly (uncovered) till reduced one-third (about twenty minutes) ; 
add a table-spoonful of port wine ; strain, and serve. 

8. Diplomatic Pudding, — Put a \ pint of cream, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 
and the grated rind of a lemon into an enamelled saucepan, and place 
it over a gentle fire ; when nearly boiling, stir in 6 oz. of crumbs 
of bread, i oz. of flour, 3 oz. of beef suet, and i oz. of beef-marrow 
chopped ; stir over the fire for ten minutes, then turn it into a basin to 
get cold. Stone and mince 2 oz. of Muscatel raisins ; chop 2 oz. of 
candied orange-peel ; wash and rub dry 2 oz. of currants and i oz. of 
sultana raisins; beat 4 fresh eggs. Mix these ingredients together; 
add the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a wine-glassfiil of rum, and a 
wine-glassful of orange wine ; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, 
or longer. Butter a mould ; stick it fancifuUy with Muscatel raisins ; 
put in the pudding ; tie it closely over, and boil rapidly for three hours, 
or bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Sauce : — Dissolve 3 oz. 
of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 2 sweet oranges ; boil tOl it 
becomes a thick syrup, then add 3 table-spoonfuls of rum. 

9. HcLsty Puffs. — Put f of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with 
the thin rind of half a lemon and an inch of cinnamon, and boil up ; 
then stir in quickly 3 oz. of flour ; when well mixed, add 3 oz. of butter 
and 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when nearly cold, add 3 well-beaten 
eggs. Take out the peel and cinnamon; beat for five minutes. Butter 
6 small cups ; put a sixth part of the mixture into each, and bake in a 
quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. Turn out and serve^ with any 
kind of preserve placed round the dish. 

10. Maraschino Syrup. — Put 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 
4 bitter almonds blanched and chopped, the thin rind of a quarter of a 
lemon, the strained juice of a sweet orange, and a wine-glassfU of 
water ; boU and skim till quite bright and thick, then strain ; add a 
wine-glassful of Maraschino, and serve. 

11. Devilled Biscuits^ Graled.'-^Chetse biscuits are* the best for 
devilling. Dip them twice into warm water, then dredge them with 
cayenne (for 6 biscuits use a salt-spoonful), and bake till quite crisp in 
a slow oven. Serve hot, either in a rack or piled on a napkin. 



OCTOBER. 



K SFITCH-CUCKED EELS. 



5. BROILED PIGEOKS. 

6. ROAST SHOVLDER OF VEAL. 
CAULIFLOWER, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, 



I AND BREAD PUDDING. 
9. DO. SAUCE. 
10. BLANCMANGE. 

CHEESE, SALAD, PULLED BREAJ 



1. Scotch Broth. — Take a neck of mutton with the fat raised from off 
the best end. Cut off the scrag end, and divide it into several pieces 
to make the broth. Let it boil gently a couple of houi^, skimming 
well. Then add sliced carrots, onions, turnips, celery, a sprig of 
parsley, pepper and salt, a tea-cupful of split peas, and 6 table-spoonfuls 
of p»arl-barley, both previously steeped in tepid water. Cut the best 
end off the neck into mutton-chops, exactly as if for frying; put them in 
soon after the vegetables, and let the whole simmer together until all is 
tender. A second skimming will be required after the addition of the 
fresh meat and vegetables. In serving, there should be a mutton-chop 
for each person's plate, to be accompanied by the vegetables, barley, 
and brose. 

2. Red Mullet, .fl(ii«/.— Wash the mullet, and lub it well with lemon- 
juice ; put it into a tin dish with a large mushroom finely chopped, 3 
thin slices of carrot, and 4 sprigs of parsley chopped, a salt-spoonful of 
salt, the same of white pepper, a ^ of a pint of Marsala ; bake in a 
moderate oven for thirty-five minutes or three-quartere of an hour; 
Baste constantly with dissolved butter (6 oz. for 3 fish) ; serve with the 
sauce poured over the mullet 

Note. — This receipt is written for a large mullet 

3. Fried or Spitch-cocked Eds. — Choose eels weighing a lbs. each ; 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR OCTOBER, 417 

skin them^ and place them either in a Dutch oven before a quick fire or 
on a gridiron^ for eight minutes, to draw out the fat ; split them down 
the thin part, take out the backbone, cut off the fins, scrape the outside, 
and cut them into pieces 3 inches long. Have 3 oz. of dried crumbs 
of bread and 2 well-beaten eggs ; dip each piece of eel into the egg, 
then into the crumbs, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to thoroughly 
cover them) over a gentle fire (about twenty-five minutes) till of a pale 
yellow colour. Serve, placed in a circular form, on neatly -folded 
foolscap paper, with melted butter. 

4. Mutton Cutlets^ with Indian Sauce. — Have 6 or 8 cutlets oflf the 
best end of the neck, the third of an inch thick ; trim off all the fat and 
gristle, leaving only the round piece of lean ; beat them with a chopper ; 
brush them over with beaten tgg^ and strew them with fine crumbs of 
bread, seasoned with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and \ a salt- 
spoonful of salt ; put them into a tin dish, with a small piece of butter 
(a \ of an oz. to each) under and an each, and bake in a moderate oven 
about three-quarters of an hour: they must be a light-brown colour. 
Chop fine a tea-cupfiil of Indian pickle ; add it to a table-spoonful of 
chutney, 2 table-spoonfuls of stock or gravy ; simmer ten minutes, and 
serve with the cutlets ; place the cutlets in a circle, and the sauce in the 
centre. 

5. Broiled Pigeons. — The pigeons must be trussed flat. Knead 
rather more than an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, 
a tea-spoonful of chopped chives, \ a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
a ^ of a salt-spoonfiil of salt, the same of pepper ; stir over the fire for 
fiwt minutes; dip the pigeons (two) in while warm, but not hot, and con- 
tinue to do so till the mixture all adheres to them. Let them stand 
for an hour, then broil over a bright fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve with the following sauce in the dish : — Rub the bottom of a small 
saucepan twice across with garlic ; put in an oz. of butter, a dessert- 
spooiifiil of baked flour, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of pepper; stir till well 
mixed ; then add a gill of either stock or water, a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Marsala, the strained juice of a 
lemon, and 2 pickled gherkins finely chopped; boil fast for eight 
minutes, then serve. 

6. Roast Shoulder of Veal. — Shoulder of veal should be stuffed. Pass 
your knife between the blade-bone and the meat on its upper surface. 
You thus easily make a sort of pocket, into which pocket push your 
veal-stuffing. By making the opening as narrow as may be, there will 
be no need to sew it up or dose it with string. On the contrary, a 
little delicately browned stuffing, protruding, will help to garnish the 
joint, and will show the carver where to find the forcemeat 

7. Pigeon Pie. — ^Two young pigeons, cut in quarters ; i lb. of rump- 

2 D 



4i8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

steak, \ an inch thick, cat into 6 pieces; 4 fresh eggs^ boiled ten 
minutes: season the whole with 2 salt-spoonfuJs and a half of salt 
and 2 salt-spoonfuls of pepper. Laj Uie steak at the bottcMn of 
a ten-inch pie^lish, the pigeons upon it, the yolks of the ^gs at 
equal distances ; add about a gill of gravy or water. Rub the edge 
of the dish with lard or butter ; line it with strips of paste the sixth of 
an inch thick ; moisten it with cold water ; cover it with paste ; press 
round to make it adhere ; trim with a sharp knife ; notch at inch dis- 
tances ; make a hole in the centre ; ornament to fancy, and bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. Make the paste as follows : 
— Moisten 9 oz. of flour with \ a gill of cold water and the juice of ^ a 
lemon ; knead flat ; put in the centre \ a lb. of good butter ; fold over ; 
roll out 4 times ; dredge flour over each time. Let it stand in a cool 
place two or three hours. 

8. Almond and Bread Pudding. — ^Blanch 3 oz. of sweet and 4 bitter 
almonds, and boU them ten minutes in ^ a pmt of milk, then pound 
them to a paste. Chop 4 oz. of beef-mairow, beat 2 ^gs, and add to 
the milk the almonds were boUed in ; rub 3 oz. of bread a day old to 
crumbs ; mix these ingredients together ; add \ a lb. of moist sugar, 
the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg 
grated, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Let it stand, to soak the bread, 
for half an hour, then beat with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an 
hour. Butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil 
fast for three hours. Serve, either with sugar sifted over it^ or with the 
following sauce. 

9. Ditto Sauce, — Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a litde 
cold water ; boil 3 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar in a gill of water for ten 
minutes; mix it with the arrowroot; stir it over the fire for two 
minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy and 20 drops of the essence 
of sweet almonds. Serve in the dish, not poured over the pudding. 

10. Blancmange, — ^Take \ a lb. of sweet almonds and 10 bitter 
almonds ; blanch them, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. 
Melt a lb. of sugar in 4 tumblers of milk, and in it boil the pounded 
almonds, flavouring with vanilla. Strain the whole through a piece 
of coarse muslin; and, while the ingredients are still hot, stir into 
them ^ an oz. of isinglass, previously dissolved in boiling water and 
then strained. Then put the whole into a mould, which must remain 
twenty-four hours in a cold cellar, or six hours on ice, before turning 
the blancmange out of the mould. 



NOVEMBER. 



. habe soup. 

Fish. 
:. boiled skate. 



Ektrees. 
s. braised mittton cutlets. 



D PUDDING. 
I. CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 
. MILANESE CREAM. 
CHEESE, FULLED BREAD, 



1. Hare Soup. — Skin a large hare, saving the blood when you empty 
it. Wipe it well, but do not wash it. Cut it up into joints, and put 
them with the blood into an earthen vessel that will hold 6 or 7 pints. 
Add 2 lbs. of lean beef cut in pieces, 2 large onions quartered, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, whole pepper, mace, and a few cloves. Nearly fill the 
vessel with boiling water, tie its top down close with a bladder, and set 
it to coolt in a boiler of water for three or four hours. Pour off the soup, 
thicken it with a little flour and butter, stirring in at the same time a 
table-spoonful of any or several of the following sauces, viz.: — Essence 
of anchovy, soy, Worcestershire, Reading, or Harvey's sauce, mush- 
room or walnut ketchup, or other approved zest. Make quite hot, and 
send to table with forcemeat-balls and the best parts of the meat of the 
hare thrown into it. 

2. Boiled Skate. — Put the fish into plenty of cold water with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a table -spoonful of vinegar. Boil up quickly, skim, 
and simmer for five minutes. Serve immediately, on a neatly-folded 
napkin. 

3. While Sauee to dUlo. — Knead 3 oz. of butter with a dessert- 
spoonful of baked flour, and stir into a gill of boiling water; boil five 
minutes. Add the strained juice of a lemon. 

5, Braised Mutlon Cvllets. — Cut 5 or 6 cutlets, the width of the 



420 THIISrGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

bone, off a neck of mutton ; trim off all the fat, and bare the bone an 
inch at the end ; season with a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful 
of pepper, and dredge each cutlet with dried flour. Make a bright 
stewpan hot, and rub it 4 times across with garlic ; put in 2 oz. of 
butter to dissolve ; then put in the cutlets, and brown both sides slowly ; 
add a tea-cupful ot any good gravy, and simmer as gently as possible 
for half an hour. Well wash 5 or 6 handfuls of spinach ; put it into a 
saucepan, with a pint of boiling water, a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and a 
dessert-spoonful of sugar, and boil till done (about eighteen minutes) ; 
drain off the water, rub the spinach through a fine wire sieve, and put 
it into a saucepan ; add a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar and a quarter 
of a gill of thick cream ; stir over the fire for five minutes. Place the 
spinach round the dish, and the cutlets in the centre, the ends of the 
bones raised in the middle of the dish. 

Note. — Sorrel is dressed exactly as spinach, omitting the sugar. 
Some persons object to sugar with spinach, which should be ascertained 
before using it 

6. Kidney end of Loin of VeaL — Place a piece of buttered paper over 
the lean side, hang it close to a good fire for twenty minutes, then at a 
distance ; baste constantly till done, allowing twenty-eight minutes to the 
lb. ; half an hour before serving, remove the paper, dredge over a little 
baked flour, \ a salt-spoonful of salt, and the strained juice of a lemon ; 
continue to baste. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of 
baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling water ; simmer 
ten minutes. Cut a round of bread, the third of an inch thick, off a 2 
lb. loaf; take of! the crust and outside ; toast to a pale brown colour; 
place the veal upon the toast ; pour off the dripping ; add the gravy to 
the melted butter, and pour it over the veaL Serve, with cut lemon 
on a plate. 

7. Ham. — ^Put the ham into an iron pot, the skin uppermost, and 
more than cover it with cold water ; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer 
till done, allowing twenty-five minutes to the lb. ; take it up by the 
knuckle, to avoid putting a fork into the thick part, and thus letting 
out the juice ; pull off the skin ; trim off any rough brown pieces, and 
powder the ham over with brown baked crumbs. Cut a neat frill of 
white paper 3 inches deep ; roll it round the knuckle, and send the 
ham to table on a dry^ warm dish. 

8. Golden Plover. — ^Place the birds before a brisk fire, with a piece of 
crumb of bread, the third of an inch thick, under them. Baste with 
fresh butter till done (about sixteen or eighteen minutes). Serve on the 
bread, which should be nicely browned, and saturated with the butter 
and the trail. Serve, with rich, thin sauce. 

9. Cumberland Pudding, — Four oz, of apples finely chopped, 3 ot 



'PARTY' DINNER FOR NOVEMBER. 421 

of fine crumbs of bread, 4 oz, of moist sugar, 4 oz. of well-washed cur- 
rants, 4 oz. of beef marrow or suet finely chopped, the grated rind and 
strained juice of ^ a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of dried flour, and half a gill of milk ; mix 
these ingredients well together ; beat for ten minutes ; butter a basin ; 
put in the mixture ; tie a cloth over ; put it into plenty of boiling water, 
and boil fast for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven an hour and 
a half. Serve, with sifted sugar over. 

10. Charlotte Puddittg. — Butter a large basin ; strew it thickly with 
moist sugar; cut some thin slices of bread and butter without crust ; 
peel and slice very thin 3 or 4 apples; have a pot of marmalade ; put 
a layer of bread into the basin, butter downwards, then marmalade, 
then apples ; continue to do this till the basin is quite fiilt ; press it 
well down ; put a plate over, with a weight upon it, and bake in a 
quick oven for three-quarters of an hour for a pint and a half basin, and 
an hour for a quart. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 

ir. Milanese Crtam. — A pint of new milk and 5 oz. of loaf sugar 
boiled, f of an oz. of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water, the yolks of 
8 fi'csh eggs, well beaten ; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not 
boiling ; stir over a gentle fire till at boiling heat ; strain into a basin ; 
stir in the isinglass and a gill of thick cream ; flavour with 35 drops of 
any kind of essence, or with 3 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino, Cura^oa, 
or lum. Pour the mixture into a mould slightly rubbed with oil of 
sweet almonds, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. 



DECEMBER. 



Entrees. 
4. aitch-bone of beet, boiled. 

6. pheasant, with truffles. 



I. Pea Soup. — Soak a pint of split peas for two hours; wash them, 
and take out all that are black ; put them into a saucepan with a quart 
of water, and let them simmer by the side of the £rc till quite sofL 
Boil sixpennyworth of fresh beef bones in a quarts of water, with 3 
onions, 2 carrots, a head of celery, i turnip, 8 peppercorns, a salt- 
spoonful of dried mint, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and a sslt- 
spoonfiil of salt When the bones are bare, strain the liquor and put 
in the peas. Boil and skim till the peas are quite mixed with the soup. 
Stir in 3 oz. of butter kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grain of white pepper, a salt- 
spoonful of flour of mustard. Boil twenty minutes ; then rub the soup 
through a tammy sieve, and serve very hot. Cut 3 slices of bread into 
half-inch pieces, and fry to a pale brown colour in ^ oz. of good butter. 
Rub some dry mint to powder, and sift it on to a plate. Serve these 
with the soup. 

a. John Dory, with Caper Sauce. — Rub the fish with a spoonful of 
vinegar; put it into cold water, with a table-spoonful of salt; boil up 
quickly; skim, and then simmer for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
Great care is required in boiling this fish, that the skin may not break. 
Serve on a napkin, neatly rolled round the edges. 

Note. — The receipt is written for a fish weighing 5 or 6 lbs. 

3. Buttered Soles. — Rub a tin dish 4 times across the bottom with 
fresh-cut garlic ; wipe the soles dry, and dredge them with baked flour. 



^ PARTY' DINNER FOR DECEMBER, 423 

Lay them in the dish, with 6 oz. of butter (for 2 soles), and bake in a 
moderately-heated oven for half an hour, or forty minutes if the soles 
be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, with the butter poured over, 
and a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or parsley sprinkled over 
the soles. 

4. Aitch-bone of Beef y boiled. — ^Put the joint into an iron pot, and cover 
it with cold water; boil up slowly, skim, then simmer as gently as 
possible till done. To be slightly underdone, allow eleven minutes to 
the lb. ; just done, twelve minutes ; and well done^ thirteen minutes, 
after at boiling heat In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour to 
the whole time. If carrots be boiled with the beef, they will require an 
hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Place the 
beef on a hot dish, the broad side downwards ; pour over it | of a pint 
of the liquor ; garnish with carrots, and serve. 

Note. — Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan for soup. 

5. Gravy Curry, — ^About a lb. and a half of veal cutlets, in pieces a 
^ of an inch thick and 2 inches square. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of 
biscuit-powder with a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the 
same of pepper and salt. Dissolve a \ lb. of butter; dip each piece of 
veal into the butter, then into the powder, and fiy in the remainder of 
the butter till slightly browned on both sides. Slice 2 onions and a \ 
of a clove of garlic ; knead 3 oz. of butter with 2 dessert-spoonfuls of 
curry-powder and i leaf of mint chopped fine ; fry the onions in the 
butter till tender ; then put in the veal and f of a pint of stock or 
gravy ; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Add the strained 
juice of a lemon, and serve, with or without rice. 

6. Pheasant, with Truffles, — Wash, peel, and slice 6 large truffles ; 
put the truffles into the body of a young pheasant, nicely trussed ; 
pound the peel with \ a clove of garlic, and knead it with i lb. of fresh 
lard. Put the pheasant into an oval deep dish or pan, cover it with 
the lard ; add 3 sprigs of parsley, i sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a salt- 
spoonfiil of salt, 4 peppercorns, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, i 
clove, 3 slices of carrot, and a wine-glasshil of rum ; cover it closely, 
and put it into a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; then let 
it remain for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. 
When required, take it out of the fat, envelope it in paper, spread 
thickly with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. Strain the gravy; add a tea-cupful of any stock, with a 
dessert-spoonfiil of baked flour, \ a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of 
loaf sugar ; boil ten minutes ; take the paper off the pheasant ; add the 
dripped gravy and the butter to the rest Place the pheasant on a hot 
dish, remove the skewers, pour over the gravy, and serve at once. 

7. White Pudding, — One lb. of fresh (pork) kidney fat, chopped, \ a 



424 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

lb. of flour, a ^ of a lb. of ground lice, \ a lb. of loaf sugar, | a lb. of 
currants well washed, a oz. of sweet and 8 bitter almonds, blanched 
and chopped, 3 oz. of orange and a oz. of lemon-peel (candied), chopped, 
the \ part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a salt-spoonfiil of salt, 2 eggs, and a 
gill of new milk. Beat these ingredients well togedier for twenty 
minutes; put the mixture into pig skins that have been well cleansed, 
leaving room for the pudding to swell ; tie both ends, put them into 
boiling water, and boil slowly for two hours and a hal£ Serve hot or 
cold ; in either case, remove the skin. When made for keepii^, bang 
them up separately ; and when required, put them into hot water and 
boil up slowly for ten minutes. 

8. SttwedAppla. — Dessert apples should be used. Pare them neatly 
with a sharp knife, and scoop out the core ; put them into a skillet, 
with hall their weight of loaf sugar, i clove, an inch of cinnamon, the 
thin rind of ^ a lemon, and the strained juice, and 3 table-spoonfuls of 
cold water to every lb. of apples ; simmer very slowly, and skim fre- 
quently, till they are tender (about an hour and a quarter). Take them 
out carefully ; place them neatly on a glass dish ; boil the symp quickly 
for ten minutes, and when nearly cold, strain it over the apples. To 
be served cold at dessert. A pint of whipped cream or Devonshire 
cream poured over the apples, makes it a pretty dish for diimei 01 
supper. 



BREAKFASTS. 

' Tktn te breakfait imlh ■what appdUe you hoit.' — Shaksfeaxe. 



THE less luxurious your breakfast table is, the better, always 
provided you are careful to have the four essentials, — good tea, 
good coffee or cocoa, good bread, and sweet butter, together with 
a fitring supply of milk and cream. I would therefore recommend a 
few savoury things suitable to the several months of the year, harmless, 
nutritive, and easily digested. Never forget to have a fair damask 
cloth upon your table ; nothing shows off so sweetly the morning repast 
with its bright silver, its cheerful china, and the meny, hissing um. 
\Vhen the months have flowers, by all means have the epergne well 
filled ; for, as the poet beautifully says,. ' They are the smiles of God.' 

JANUARY. 

Broiled Haddock — Broiled Rasher of Bacon and Eggs — Sausages 

on Toast — Cold Fowl and Tongue ^ Broiled Kidneys — Kippered 

Salmon — Hung Beef — Cold Pigeon Pie — Broiled Legs of Fowl — 

Broiled Legs of Turkey — Broiled Whitings. 

FEBRUARY. 
Broiled Soles — Pigeon Pie — Rabbit Pie — Frjed Eggs and Bacon — 
Rolled Tongue — Broiled Bacon — Dried Salmon — Dried Haddock — 
Spiced Beef — Cold Soles (fried) — Broiled Ham and Eggs. 

MARCH. 
Giblet Pie (cold) — Cold Fried Sausages — Cold Ham — Broiled 
Whiting — Brawn — Pigeon Pie — German Sausage — Cold Roast Capon 
— ^Tongue — Broiled Haddock — Broiled Kidneys. 

APRIL. 
Sheep's Tongues — Ham — Toasted Bacon and Fried Eggs — Cold 



426 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Pork Sausages — Pigeon Pie — Savoury Omelet — Prawns — German 

Sausage — Reindeer's Tongue — Bath Chop — Cold Fillet of Beef 

(stuffed). 

MAY. 

Cold Leveret Pie — Broiled Ham and Eggs — Prawns — Savoury 
Omelet— Cold Ham— Cold Roast Fowl— Broiled Eadneys— Rolled 
Tongue — Corned Beef— Sardines — Cold Fried Soles. 

JUNE. 

Spiced Beef— Broiled Whiting— Cold Boiled Bacon— Broiled Kidneys 

. — Ham Omelet — Potted Ham — ^Anchovies — Boiled Cold Tongue — 

Prawns — Broiled Mackerel — Scalloped Skate ; and any fruits that may 

be ripe. 

JULY. 

Spiced Beef— Potted Ham — Pigeon Pie — Prawns — ^Poached Eggs 
and Bacon — ^Toasted Bacon and Eggs — Broiled Ham — ^Cold Fowl — 
Cold Plaice — Dried Salmon — ^Broiled Mackerel; and any fruits that 
may be ripe. 

august; 

Ham and Broiled Mushrooms — Anchovies — Broiled Whiting — 

Rabbit Pie — Fried Soles (cold) — Fricandeau of Eggs — Mayonnaise of 

Prawns — Roast Pigeons — ^Broiled Ham and Fried Eggs — Spiced Beef 

— Savoury Omelets. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Broiled Haddock — Potted Ham — Sheep's Tongues — Pig's Cheek — 
Cold Roast Fowl — Ham — Cold Grouse — Rolled Tongue — Cold 
Partridges — Scalloped Cod — Kippered Sabnon. 

OCTOBER. 

Giblet Pie — Cold Soles — Hot Sausages and Toast — Pigeon Pie — 
Bloaters and Boiled Eggs — Savoury Omelet — Potted Shrimps — Fried 
Whitings — ^Partridge Pie^Pheasant Pie — Kippered Salmon. 

NOVEMBER. 
Broiled Soles — ^Broiled Ham and Eggs — Dried Haddock — ^Pork 
Sausages and Toast — Savoury Omelet — Roast Fowl (cold) — Ham — 
Lobster Cutlets (hot) — Grouse (cold)— Mock Brawn — Partridge (cold). 

DECEMBER. 
Dried Sprats — Rump-steak Pie — Potted Shrimps — Cold Fried Soles 
— ^Bloaters and Boiled Eggs — German Sausages — Broiled Haddock- 
Partridges — Broiled Ham and Eggs — Cold Fowl — Ham — Rolled 
Tongue. 



TEA. 

' Nam stir the fin, and close Iht skutteri fait. 
La fall thi eurtahu, wieil the lifa round ; 
Andwhili tht buibling and Imid-kiising urn 
Tlawi! up a steamy column, and the cups 
Thai cheer, iut not inebriate, wait on each. 
So let m vxleame peaceful evening iVi,'— COWPER. 



HOWEVER careful some servants may be to procure the best 
water, almost every kind of water in use, except rain-water, 
will speedily cover the inside of the kettle with an unpleasant crust 
This may be easily guarded against by placing a clean oyster-shell in 
the kettle, which will always keep it in good order, by attracting the 
particles of earth, or of stone, or of such peculiar salts as the water 
may be impregnated with. 

As a test in general to distinguish genuine tea from the sloe leaf, let 
it be infused, and some of the largest leaves spread out to dry ; when 
the r^ tea leaf will be found narrow in proportion to its length, and 
deeply notched at the edges with a sharp point ; whilst the sloe leaf is 
notched very slightly, is darker in colour, rounder at the point, and of 
a coarser texture. 

In preparing the tea, a good economist will be careful to have the 
best water ; that is, the softest and freest from foreign mixture. If tea 
be infused in hard and in soft water, the latter will always yield the 
greatest quantity of the tanning matter, and will strike the deepest black 
with the sulphate of iron in solution ; consequently, according to the 
technical tenn, it will always be found ' to draw best.' 

In the management of the tea-um it may be observed, that a polished 
um may be kept boiling with a much smaller quantity of spirits of wine 
than when a varnished or bronzed um is used, so that a silver um is 
absolutely an object of economy. 

In order to make a good cup of tea, M. Soyer recommends that 
before pouring in any water, the teapot, with the tea in it, shall be 
placed in the oven till hot, or heated by means of a spirit-lamp, or in 
front of the fire (not too close, of course), and the pot then filled 



428 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

with boiling water. The result, he says, will be in about a minute a 
delicious cup of tea, much superior to that drawn in the ordinary way. 

Tastes differ regarding the flavour of teas. A good mixture, in point 
of flavour, we know to be two-fifths black, two-fifths green, and one- 
fifth gunpowder ; all being, of course, of superior quality. 

Presuming all ladies to be intimately acquainted with the mode of 
making tea, yet to some a few hints may be serviceable : — 

First, never make tea in any other than a highly-polished teapot; 
for it is a chemical fact, that metal retains the heat longer than earthen- 
ware ; and the better it is polished, the more completely will the liquid 
be kept hot, and the essence of the tea be extracted. 

Secondly, see that the water be really boiling. 

Tea retains its fine flavour better if kept in little tin canisters instead 
of a caddy. 

To impart a fine flavour to ordinary tea, add i drop of the otto of 
roses on a piece of soft paper to every lb. of tea, and keep the canister 
closely covered. 

With regard to coffee^ the best kind is always the cheapest Btum it 
at home in small quantities, taking care in using a close roaster, never 
to fill it more than half. Turn the roaster slowly at first, more rapidly 
as the process advances, and keep up a lively fire. Bum it until of a 
light chestnut colour. Keep it in dose canisters or botdes. Grind it 
as wanted. Boil it in a vessel only half full, to prevent boiling over. 
in the proportion of i^ oz. to a pint of water. Put in a few hartshorn 
shavings, or isinglass, if you will ; but if the cofiee is taken ofi" the 
fire whilst boiling, and set on again alternately, until nothing remains 
on the top but a clear bubble, and then some poured out to clear the 
pipe, and poured back again, it will be as fine as if cleared artificially. 
Long boiling does not make cofiee stronger, but destroys its colour and 
renders it turbid. In making cofl'ee, the broader the bottom and the 
smaller the top of the vessel, the better it will prove. 

Various methods have been tried of preparing this Arabian beverage, 
but it will be found, after all, that there is no surer way of having coffee 
clear and strong, than pursuing the plan here given : — 

Beat up an t%% — two for a large pot — ^and mix it well with the coffee 
till you have formed it into a ball ; fill the pot with cold water, allowing 
room enough to put in the ingredients ; let it simmer very gently for an 
hour, but do not think of stirring it on any account Just before it is 
required, put the pot on the fire and warm it well ; but, as you value 
the true aroma, take care that it does not boil Pour it off gently, and 
you will have as pure and as strong an extract of the Indian berry as 
you can desire. Use white sugar candy, in powder, in preference to 
sugar ; cream, if attainable ; if not, boiled milk. 



S0PPERS. 

' Te know thepatata 
trai tastes ofiht /imc.'— Ben JonsoS, 



HOT SUPPERS are not healthy, but occasionally such things are 
taken, and without evil consequences ; but, as a rule, I should 
recommend light suppers, and have therefore given some dishes, with 
an eye to what has been left at dinner, with a few additions. In fact, 
the l^hter the diet, the better they appear; and glass and silver inter- 
mixed have the happiest effect The remains of jellies and different 
coloured blancmanges, and especially the chaste decoration of flowers, 
add much to the effective beauty of the table. An elegant supper may 
be served at a small expense, by those who know how to make trifles 
that are left from fonner meals form the diiefest part of the refresh- 
ment. 

Reast Larks. — ^These should be enveloped in thin slices of ham or 
bacon, and well basted ; fifteen minutes' roasting will be sufficient 
Before serving, take off the bacon, and strew bread-crumbs over the 
birds; brown them with a salamander, and send them to table with 
melted butter and a fresh lemon. 

Frangipane. — Beat up 6 eggs, and add 3 spoonfuls of flour, a spoonful 
of grated lemon-peel, another of powdered sugar, a table-spoonful of 
orange-flour water, and half a dozen macaroons broken up ; put these 
and a pint of milk into a stewpan over a slow fire, stir it well for twenty 
minutes; have ready some pattypans lined with puff paste; pour in the 
ingredients, and bake for twenty minutes. 

To Boil Tripe. — Wash it clean, and put it on to boil in plenty of 
water, with 4 or fi moderately-sized onions. When the onions are 
quite soft, the tripe will be boiled enough. Serve it with the onions 
in a hash-dish, with a little of the liquor in which it haa been boiled, 



430 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. 

and plain melted butter in a cup. It will be greatly improved thus : 
— About ten minutes before it is done, strain oflf all the liquor, and 
replace it with a cupful of milk \ roll a lump of butter in some flour ; 
add a little chopped lemon-peel, pepper, and salt ; mix all well together, 
and let it boil gently for about ten minutes. This way of dressing tripe 
is both cheap and delicious. 

To fry Bacon and JSggs, — Cut the bacon in thin rashers, and fry it as 
before directed ; when done, lay it in a hot dish before the fire. Break 
the eggs in separate cups, and place them gently in the pan ; keep them 
in a round, flat shape. When the white is set, take them out of the pan 
with a slice, and place an egg on each rasher. The pretty appearance 
of the dish is spoiled if the eggs be broken, for which reason great care 
must be used in taking them out of the pan. 

Rabbit to taste like Hare, with Red Currant Jelly, — Choose one young, 
but full grown ; hang it in the skin three or four days ; then skin it, 
and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and all- 
spice in very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and a glass of vinegar. 
Baste it occasionally, then stufi' and roast it as a hare, and with the 
same sauce. Do not wash ofi* the liquor it was soaked in. 

Devils. — ^The gizzard of a turkey scored and rubbed with firesh butter 
and soluble cayenne, is esteemed an admhable zest The backbone of 
mackerel similarly treated makes the best devil. 

Fondu. — Four eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire 
cheese, the weight of 2 in butter, pepper and salt to taste. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the yolks in a 
basin, and grate the cheese, or cut into very thin flakes. Parmesan or 
Cheshire cheese may be used, whichever is the most convenient, 
although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an 
equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small 
pieces ; add the other ingredients, and season with pepper and salt, 
and well-beat the mixture. Stir lightly in the whites of 4 eggs well 
whisked. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondu should rise a good 
deal. Bake in a small round tin, or in a soufflk-dv^, about a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes. If not served very hot, and eaten 
directly, the beauty and lightness will be destroyed. 

Ham Omelet. — Ingredients : 6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, half a salt-spoon- 
fill of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced ham. Mode. — ^Mince the 
ham very finely without any fat, and fry it for two Minutes in a little 
butter; then make the batter for the omelet; stir in the ham, and 
proceed as in the case of a plain omelet Do not add any salt to 
the batter, as the ham is usually sufliciently salt to impart a flavour. 
Good lean bacon or tongue answers equally weU for this dish, but they 
must also be slightly cooked previously to mixing them with the 



LIGHT DISHES FOR SUPPER, 431 

batter. Serve very hot, and quickly, without gravy. Sufficient for 4 
persons. 

Sausage Rolls. — ^Take equal portions of cold roast veal and ham, or 
cold fowl and tongue ; chop these together very small, and season with 
a tea-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, and a spoonful of mixed salt 
and soluble cayenne pepper ; mix well together ; put 3 table-spoonfuls 
of the chopped and seasoned meat well rolled together into enough 
light puff-paste to cover it When you have used up the whole of your 
material, bake for half an hour in a good brisk oven. 

Broiled Partridge. — (September i to February 7.) — Pluck, draw, and 
cut three partridges in half, and thoroughly wipe the inside with a damp 
cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne; broil them over a very 
dear fire ; put them on a hot dish ; rub a little butter over each half, 
and have brown gravy or mushroom sauce with them. 

Baked Sprats and Herrings, — ^Wash and drain without wiping them ; 
season with allspice in fine powder, a few whole cloves, and salt ; lay 
them in a pan with a few bay leaves, an onion, and plenty of black 
pepper; add equal quantity of vinegar and small beer to cover them. Put 
paper over the pan, and bake them in a slow oven (gut, but do not open 
them). If liked to look red, throw saltpetre over them the night 
before. 

Poached Eggs. — ^To prevent the imsightly admixture of the yolk with 
the white, so often observed in poached eggs, observe the following 
simple method : — ^Use a large saucepan, nearly filled with boiling water ; 
pour a couple of table-spoonfiils of hot water into a saucer ; break the 
^^ carefully into the centre of the saucer, then gently lift it and place 
it on the surface of the water in the saucepan ; the instant you perceive 
the yolk set, take out the saucer, and remove the egg with a slice to the 
dish required. Dress the number you wish for separately ; as the time 
occupied is so short, there is little risk of the spinach, bacon, or what- 
ever else you are about to use, becoming cold. 

Oyster Sausages. — Beard, rinse well in their strained liquor, and 
mince, but not finely, 3^ dozen of plump native oysters, and mix them 
with 10 oz. of fine bread-crumbs, and 10 oz. of beef suet chopped 
extremely small; add a salt-spoonful of salt, and i salt-spoonful of 
pepper, or less than half of cayenne, twice as much pounded mace, and 
the third of a small nutmeg grated. Moisten the whole with 2 unbeaten 
eggs, or with the yolks only of 3, and a dessert-spoonful of the whites. 
When these ingredients are well worked together, and perfectly blended, 
set the mixture in a cool place for two or three hours before it is used ; 
make it into the form of small sausages or sausage cakes ; flour and fry 
them in butter of a fine light brown, or throw them into boiling water 
for three minutes ; drain and let them become cold ; dip them into egg 



432 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOJV. 

and bread-crumbs, and broil them gently until they are lightly coloured. 
The sausages thus made are extremely good : the fingers should be 
well floured in making them up. A small piece should be cooked 
and tasted before the whole is put aside, that the seasoning may 
be heightened if required. 

Broiled Bones, — If you desire a relish, and have in your larder either 
roast beef or mutton bones not too closely carved, score the meat, rub 
it over with walnut ketchup, and sprinkle it with soluble cayenne and 
salt. Set them in a bonnet before the fire ; when they begin to smoke 
rub a little firesh butter over them, let them be turned now and then, 
but take care they are not burnt Beef cinders and broiled bones are 
very distinct affairs. Although originally dressed upon the gridiron, 
the above method will be found the most satisfactory. 

Sprats. — Sprats, when cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer 
run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot 

Cold Meat Puffs. — Cut the meat into small thin pieces, and season 
them with pepper and salt ; mash very fine i^ lb. of cold boiled potatoes, 
and mix diem up with a table-spoonful or two of flour and i egg ; roll 
this out into a proper thickness for pufls, and make them up,'putt'mg 
into each puff about 2 oz. of the meat ; fry them slowly, in a clean pan, 
on both sides, of a fine light brown. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — ^Take away the skin and stalks ; strew a little 
pepper and salt over the mushrooms, then put them into a stewpan with 
\ a. pint of cream. Keep stirring constantly, but with a gentle hand, 
not to break them ; when nearly done, add a little butter rolled in flour» 
to thicken the sauce. 

Stewed Cheese. — Good double Gloucester, whilst new, is the best 
cheese for stewing. Chop the quantity required into small portions, 
and put them in a basm, covering them with strong ale. Set the basin 
on the hob, or into the oven of a kitchen range, for thr^e-quarters of an 
hour, stirring now and then. Toast some slices of bread, and make 
some fresh mustard, then pour the stew over the toast upon a hot plate. 
A little soluble cayenne pepper is an excellent addition to this supper 
dish. 

Anchovy Toast. — Make as many slices of toast as required ; let these 
be fried in fresh butter, and whilst quite hot spread the fish upon them. 
Before making your toast, wash 2 anchovies for each slice, bone them» 
and force the meat through a coarse sieve. 

Mushroom au Beurre. — Cut the stems from some fine meadow mush- 
room buttons, and clean them with a bit of new flannel and some fine 
salt, then either wipe them dry with a soft cloth or rinse them in firesh 
water; drain them quickly; spread them in a clean cloth, fold it over 
them, and leave them for ten minutes or more to dry. For every pint ol 



LIGHT DISHES FOR SUPPER. 433 

them thus prepared, put i| oz. of fresh butter into a thick iron saucepan ; 
shake it over the fire until it just begins to brown ; throw in the mush- 
rooms; continue to shake the saucepan over a clear fire that they may not 
stick to it nor bum ; and when they have simmered three or four minutes, 
strew them over with a little salt, some cayenne, and pounded mace ; 
stew them until they are perfectly tender. Heap them in a dish and 
serve them, in their own sauce only, for breakfast, supper, or luncheon : 
nothing can be finer than the mushrooms thus prepared, and the addi- 
tion of any liquid is far fi:om an improvement to it They are very 
good when drained firom the butter and served cold, and in a cool 
larder may be kept for several days. The butter in which they are 
stewed is admirable for flavouring gravies, sauces, or potted meats. 
Small flaps, freed from the fur and skin, may be stewed in the same way ; 
and either these or the buttons served under roast poultry or partridges, 
will give a dish of very superior relish. 

Meadow mushrooms, 3 pints; fresh butter, 4^ oz. ; three to five minutes; 
salt, I teaspoonfiil. Mace, half as much ; cayenne, tiiird of a salt-spoonful ; 
ten to fifteen minutes. More spices to be added if required, much 
depending on their quality, but they should not overpower the flavour 
of the mushrooms. 

Oranges — a pretty Supper dish — November to May. — ^Ingredients: 
Six large oranges, \ lb. loaf sugar, \ pint of water, \ pint of cream, 2 
table-spoonfuls of any kind of liquor, sugar to taste. Mode. — Put the 
sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes 
britUe, which may be ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a 
spoon, and dipping it in cold water ; if the sugar is sufliciently boiled, 
it will easily snap. Feel the oranges, remove as much of the white 
pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices without breaking 
the thin, white skin which surrounds the juicy pulp. Place the pieces 
of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot sugar, and arrange 
them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with 
the purest salad oil The slides of the mould only should be lined 
with the oranges, and the centre left open for the cream. Let the 
sugar become firm by cooling; turn the oranges carefully out on a dish, 
and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of 
liquor, and sweetened with pounded sugar. 

Bread and Butter and Anchovy, — ^The following, if nicely and fanci- 
fully moulded, makes a pretty breakfast or supper dish : — ^Wash, bone, 
and pound some anchovies well in a mortar; scald and chop some 
parsley, and rub it through a sieve ; mix and pound all the ingredients 
well together, and make the butter into pats immediately. To each 
pound of butter, allow one small bunch of parsley and six anchovies 

2 E 



A FEW HINTS 

AS TO 

THE COOKING, Etc. OF VEGETABLES. 



' Hen is but lUlU, andlhat lighl i>/distttiiin:—Q<:KSAJBS. 

EVERY housekeeper who possesses a patch of ground should have 
a few herbs mostly in use for cookery and garnish. 'By this 
means they will always be fresh, and the expense, after the first 
purchase of the seeds or roots, is very trifling. Let the housekeeper 
look over her greengrocer's bills, and she vnll be surprised at the 
aggregate charge for herbs, and such small gear as horseradish, fennel, 
etc., in a month or year. A very few square yards of ground will 
suffice to cultivate as many herbs as are wanted by any family. 

To IJress Potaloes.- — In general, it will be found best to pare them 
before boiiing; they should also be as nearly of a size as possible, or 
the small ones will break before the lai^e ones are done ; they should 
be put into cold water scarcely enough to cover them, with a good 
lump of salt; they should boil slowly, and when they begin to crack 
the water should be poured off; then set the saucepan over the fire 
with the hd off, till they are quite dry and mealy. On serving, cover 
them with a clean napkin. 

Cold potatoes may be cooked up again in many ways. They may 
be mashed with a little milk, butter, pepper, and salt, and heated in a 
saucepan, then turned out and set before the fire to brown; or another 
way is to cut them in slices and broil them on a gridiron ; or they may 
be mashed very fine with butter, pepper, and salt, and then made into 
balls, dipped into beaten egg, rolled in fine bread-ciumbs, and fiied a 
nice light brown. They are excellent this way, and form a handsome 
dish. Another pretty mode for a fancy dish is to pare your potatoes, 
then cut them round as you would pare an apple, and fiy them in lard 
434 



THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES. 435 

till brown all alike ; drain them on a sieve, and sprinkle a little fine 
salt over them. 

Haw to choose Potatoes^ and keep them from being wasted, — Observe, 
as a general rule, that the smaller the eye the better the potato, as 
when they are too full in the eye, they are either of an inferior quality 
or are running to seed. To ascertain if they are sound, nip a piece 
from the thickest end with your finger-nail; if good, the inside will 
either be of a white, yellow, or reddish hue, according to the sort and 
quality ; if, on the contrary, they are spotted, they are bad, or getting 
so ; but though this part may be slightly touched, by cutting a little off 
the outside they may prove fit for boiling, though they ought to be 
bought when in this state at a cheap rate. Potatoes always get bad in 
the spring of the year, as then the old ones are going out, and the new 
ones for some time continue to possess but little flavour, and are watery 
when boiled. The old ones ought to be peeled, and steamed, and 
mashed, or baked in an oven under a joint, or fried in fat ; for when 
done whole in their skins at this time of the year, the slightest spot 
spoils their flavour. The new ones are tasteless and watery, and are 
much better cooked when put in very hot water (but not boiling) than 
when put in cold. There are few articles in families more subject to 
waste, both in paring, boiling, and being actually thrown away, than 
potatoes ; and there are few cooks but what boil twice as many potatoes 
every day as are wanted, and fewer still that do not throw the residue 
away as totally \mfit in any shape for the next day's meal ; yet, if they 
would take the trouble to heat up the despised cold potatoes with an 
equal quantity of flour, they would find them produce a much lighter 
dumpling or pudding than they can make with flour alone, and by the 
aid of a few spoonfuls of good gravy they would produce an agreeable 
dish for the dinner table. 

To Boil Carrots, — Scrape and wash them, then split them in two (if 
very large, into four), and cut them across ; they require long boiling 
to make them soft Parsnips are dressed in the same manner. When 
cold) they are very nice cut in slices and fried. 

Cucumber. — ^Those who are at all afi-aid of eating cucumber may 
venture without danger, if, to the dressing of salt, soluble cayenne, oil, 
and vinegar, a table-spoonful of strong mustard be added. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. — Scrape and wash them clean, and put them 
into boiling water with salt in it ; large ones will require boiling for 
two hours. When done, take them up and butter them. 

Broccoli to Boil. — Pare off the side leaves and the outside of the stalk, 
which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boiling, 
throw in a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of 
an hour. When the stalks are tender, the vegetables are done, and 



436 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



they should be served without delay on a slice of toast, with a boatful 
of melted butter. 

Stewed Winter Spinach. — ^Boil and squeeze the vegetable ; mix 3 oz. 
ot butter with a spoonful of salt and as much flour as it will hold ; put 
this and the spinach into a stewpan, and stir it well for a quarter of 
an hour. Before serving, add a tea-cupful of cream, or of veal or beef 
gravy. This dish is applicable to any joint of roast meat 

TO PRESERVE SOME VEGETABLES TO EAT IN WINTER. 

Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry, cold room. 

Carrots^ etc, — Carrots, parsnips, and beetroots should be kept in 
layers of dry sand for winter use, and neither they nor potatoes should 
be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from 
frost. 

Parsley should be cut close to the stalks and dried in a warm room, 
or on tins in a very cool oven ; it preserves its flavour and colour, and 
is very useful in winter. 

French Beans, — ^Pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg 
a layer of them three inches deep, and sprinkle with salt and a layer of 
beans alternately, as high as you think proper. Do not put too much 
salt, or they will not be pleasant to the taste ; lay over them a plate or 
cover of wood tliat will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. 
A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. AVhen they are to be eaten, 
cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. 

Artichoke Bottoms^ slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags ; and 
truffles, morels, lemon-peel,' etc., in a dry place, ticketed. 

Mint, — ^When mint is green and plentiful, cut it up fine and put it 
into empty pickle bottles; fill the bottles with vinegar, and cork 
closely ; add the sugar when required for use. No one can tell it from 
that newly gathered. 

Spinach, — It should be quite fresh in the first place, and taken leaf 
by leaf from the stalks; by this means a peculiar vegetable fibre 
resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, will be avoided. 
Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain through a 
colander, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a good-sized 
saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water ; as soon as it 
boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, which, being 
light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced into the 
water with a large fork or spoon. Ten minutes' boiling is enough. 
Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden trenchers, 
and squeeze out as much water as possible ; then chop it quite fine, 
after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As it is 
essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stewpan with the 



THE PRESERVING OF VEGETABLES. 437 

juice of a leiQon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt Let 
it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. 

Soluble Horseradish. — Scrape a stick of horseradish, and boil it in 
vinegar; when the liquor is strongly flavoured with the piquancy of the 
root, pour it upon salt Many persons have been obliged to leave the 
table from the unpleasant fact of a long string of horseradish having 
become entangled in their teeth, and descending with the mouthful 
into the throat, but not going farther, and thus causing a sensation of 
suffocation. Such a trial of temper will be avoided by using the above 
preparation. 

To preserve Artichokes. — Having cut the tips of the leaves, boil the 
artichokes for five minutes, then set them bottom upwards ; let them 
drain all night, put them in paper bags, and keep them in a dry place. 

Cabbages. — Small close cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the 
frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine after many weeks' keeping. 

Green Peas. — Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it 
boils; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a 
colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser 
covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly ; 
then put them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving only room to pour 
clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick; and for the cork, 
rosin it down and keep it in the cellar, or dig a trench in a part of the 
garden less used, sufficiently deep for the bottles to stand, and let the 
earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. If a frost comes 
on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from 
hardening so that they cannot be dug up. When wanted for use, boil 
them till tender with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of 
mint 

Another way — practised in the Russian Emperor's kitchen: — Shell, 
scald, and dry them as above ; put them on. tins or earthen dishes (in a 
cool oven) once or twice to harden ; keep them in paper bags hung up 
in the kitchen. When to be used, let them lie an hour in water ; then 
set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till 
ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. 

Artichokes. — Boil them till tender, let them drain, and serve them 
with melted butter. They must be well washed and soaked before 
cooking. 

Preserving Peas Green for Winter use. — Carefiilly shell the peas?, 
then put them in the canisters, not too large ones ; put in a small piece 
of alum, about the size of a horse-bean, to a pint of peas. When the 
canister is full of peas, fill up the interstices with water, and solder on 
the lid perfectly air-tight, and boil the canisters for about t\Yenty 
minutes ; then remove them to a cool place, and they will be found in 



438 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

January but little inferior to fresh, newly-gathered peas. Potting is not 
so good; at least, we have found it so. The air gets in, the liquid 
turns sour, and the peas acquire a bad taste. 

Onions, — Select the white kind, peel them, and put them into boiling 
milk with a little salt, and let them boil from half an hour to three- 
quarters. Drain them through a colander, and serve them with melted 
butter. 

French Beans for Winter use, — ^Throw them into boiling water for 
one minute, then into cold; drain them immediately, and dry them 
separately and thoroughly in cloths. Put a layer of salt, about half an 
inch thick, in the bottom of a large earthen pan, then a layer of beans 
of about two inches thick, then salt as before, and bean, till the pan is 
filled, taking care to have the upper layer of salt The pan should be 
covered down with a large slate, and kept in a dry place. When you 
require a dish, take out the quantity and fill the gap up with salt Soak 
the beans all night and morning previous to dressing, and add a little 
sub-carbon of soda. 

Herbs for Winter use, — At this season you can procure the following 
herbs: — Knotted marjoram, winter savoury, summer savoury, thyme, 
lemon and orange thyme, chevril, and bumet Let these be well dried, 
take the leaves from the stalks, and press them closely together; then 
wrap them in stout paper, having the name of gach written on the 
outside. Herbs preserved in a compact form will retain their flavour 
for two or three years ; but if merely kept in loose bundles, as is the 
usual method, they soon lose their fragrance. Orange and elder flowers 
may be preserved in the same manner, though it is best to distil them 
whilst quite fresh. Basil is not in a state for drying till the latter end 
of August % 




SALADS 

' fVilt pliiue yim tasU o/'jiIuU is kere'~\ 



Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off 
sufficient 'dressing' for a few days' consumption; but the salad should 
not be made long before it is wanted for table. The dressing will re- 
main good for four or five days if kept in a coot place. 

Bedroot as a Winter Salad. — It is extremely good, boiled and sliced 
with a small quantity of onion, or stewed with whole onions, large or 
small, as follows : — Boil the beet tender with the skin on ; slice it into 
a stewpan with a little broth and a spooniul of vinegar. Simmer till the 
gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make 
a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender ; lake off the skin 
just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or roast 
3 large onions, and peel off the outer skin till they look clear, and serve 
the beetroot strewed round them. If beetroot is in the least broken 
before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. 

Chicken Salad. — Neatly trim the remains of a cold roast or boiled 
fowl or chicken ; wash dry, and slice the lettuces, and place them in 
the middle of the dish, with a. little endive. Put the pieces of chicken 
at top, and pour salad dressing over them. Garnish the edge of the 
salad with hard-boiled e^s cut in rings, sliced cucumber, and boiled 
beetroot cut in slices ; or, if arranged nicely, the yolks of the eggs 
(instead of cutting them in rings) may be rubbed through a hair sieve, 
and the whites chopped very finely, placing the yellow and white alter- 
nately in small bunches on the salad. To be made just before wanted 
for table. 

Cowslips and Cream Salad. — Half-fill a small bowl with the petals 
only (removed from the calyx) of fresh-blown and fresh-gathered cow- 
slips ; cover them with thick cream, well flavoured with sugar and 



440 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



orange-flower water, and you will have a delicious accompaniment to 
eat with a crust of bread or common cake. 

An ExcdUnt Herring Salad (Swedish Redpi). — Soak, skin, split, and 
bone a large Norway herring ; lay the two sides along a dish, and slice 
them slopingly (or substitute for this one or two fine Dutch herrings). 
Arrange in symmetrical order over the fish slices of cooked beetroot, 
cold boiled potatoes, and pickled gherkins; then add i or 2 sharp 
apples chopped small, and the yolks and whites, separately minced, of 
some hard-boiled eggs, with anything else which may be at hand, and 
may serve to vary tastefully the decoration of the dish. Place these 
ingredients in small heaps of well-contrasting colours on the surface of 
the salad, and lay a border of curled celery leaves or parsley round the 
bowL 

For sauce, rub the yolk of one hard-boiled egg quite smooth with 
some salt ; to this add oil and vinegar as for an ordinary salad, and 
dilute the whole with some thick, sour cream. 

About \ lb. of cold beef cut into small thin shavings or collops is 
often added to a herring salad abroad : it may be either of simply 
roasted or boiled, or of salted and smoked meat. 

Lettuce and Cream Salad. — Season the lettuce with vinegar, salt, 
pepper, and pounded sugar, all in sparing quantity. Then pour over 
it the thickest cream you can get, and mix it well in the bowL This 
salad should be eaten directly it is dressed. The gos-lettuces are the 
best for it. 

Lobster Salad, and Dressing for ditto, — Best from April to October. 
— For the salad, i hen lobster, endive, lettuces, whatever small salad is 
in season, a few slices of cucumber, a little chopped beetroot, and 2 
hard-boiled eggs. Wash the salad, and shake it in a cloth till thoroughly 
dry ; break up the lettuces and endive ; pour the dressing on them, and 
lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings 
from the body of the lobster ; pick the meat from the shell ; cut it up 
into nice square pieces ; put half in the salad, and reserve half for 
garnishing. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 2 eggs ; chop 
the whites very fine ; rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the 
coral from the inside. Arrange the salad lightly oU a glass dish, and 
garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then with the pieces of 
lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral, and beetroot placed 
alternately, and arranged in small separate bunches, so that the colouis 
contrast nicely. A few crayfish make a pretty garnishing to lobster 
salad. For dressing, to form a creamy-looking sauce, use 2 table-spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, 4 table-spoonfuls of oil, i tea-spoonful of made mustard, 
a quarter of a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolks ot 2 eggs, cayenne^ 
and salt to taste ; to be mixed together till perfectly smooth. 



RECEIPTS FOR SALADS. 441 



Poets Receipt for Salad,— 

*Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 
Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 
Of mordent mustard, add a single spoon. 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar, procured from town ; 
True flavour needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs j 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 
And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss 
A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce ; 
Then, though green turtle fail, tho' venison's tough. 
And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 
Serenely full, the epicure hiay say : 
Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day.* 

— Rev. Sydney Smith. 

An Excellent Salad of Young Vegetables. — Pare off the coarse fibrous 
parts from 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms, boiled quite tender, well drained, 
and freed carefully from the insides ; cut them into quarters, and lay 
them in the salad-bowl ; arrange over them some cold new potatoes and 
young carrots sliced moderately thin ; strew minced tarragon, chervil, 
or any other herbs which may be better liked, thickly over the surface, 
and sauce the salad with an English or French dressing just before it is 
sent to table. Very young French beans, cut into short lozenge-shaped 
lengths, or asparagus points, can be added to this dish at pleasure ; or 
small tufts of cauliflower placed round it. When these are put, the 
herbs may be omitted. A little of the liquor of pickled Indian mangoes 
is an improvement j or, in lieu of it, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne 
pepper. 

Walnut Salad, — ^This is a common summer salad in France, where 
the growth of walnuts is generally abundant, but is not much served in 
England, though the sweet flavour of the just-formed nut is very agree- 
able. Take the walnuts when a pin will pierce them easily; pare them 
down to the kernels, and toss them gently, just before they are served, 
in a French or English salad dressing (the former would generally be 
preferred, we think), and turn them into the salad-bowl lor table. 

Water-cress Salad. — ^These are best before the frosts have touched 
thenL It is not usual to mix anything else with them ^ut only to have 



443 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

2 dressing of plenty of oil, little vin^ar, salt to taste, no mustard or 
pepper. This salad is nice garnished with hard-boiled ^gs cat into 
quarters, picked shrimps or prawns, anchovy fillets in oil cut into strips, 
and capers or gherkins cut into slices. 

Winter Saiad. — Nearly fill the salad-bowl with rounds of beetroot, 
slices of celery, tampion roots with their plume of blanched leaves, 
and boiled potatoes. Place a dish on the salad-bowl ; turn the latter 
topsy-turvy, and put into it a bard yolk of ^g isa every two persons; 
crush them in oil till they form a paste. To this paste add chervil, 
crushed tunny (which may be bought preserved in bottles), pounded 
anchovies, some of Maille's mustard, a large spoonfiil of soy, gherkins 
cut in slices, and the whites of the hard e^s chopped in pieces, and 
moisten the whole with some fA the very best vinegar. Then restore 
the salad to the bowl, stirring it thoroughly. When well stirred, let faQ 
on it a pinch of powdered Hungarian capsicum, oi the smallest quantity 
of cayenne. 

Wittier Salad. — From the end of September to March. — Endive, 
boiled beetroot, mustard and'cress, celety, and 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs 
fonn the chief ingredients of a winter salad \ and if the colours are 
nicely contrasted, and it is tastefully garnished, it may be converted into 
a very pretty dish. The celery must be most carefully washed, and all 
worm-eaten pieces cut away, and shred into thin pieces ; the mustard 
and cress and endive well cleansed and placed high in the centre of the 
dish or salad-bowl, garnished with the eggs and beetroot, each cot in 
slices; then pour some salad-dressing into the dish, but not over the 
salad. The sauce may be prepared beforehand, but the salad loses its 
freshness and pretty appearance if made long before it b wanted. 



SAUCES. 

'Switt-wtre lit lauet would flauc each kindo/tasit.'—Si^ Wai.ter Ralbirh. 



Ameriean Saua. — Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in a gill of brandy ; 
beat 3 oz. of fresh butter to cream ; mix them together, and beat till 
smooth, 

AtuAavy Sauce. — This quantity is sufficient for 3 soles, a brill, and 
small tnrbot, etc : — Bone 4 anchovies, and pound them in a mortar to a 
paste with 1 oz. of butter. Make \ pint of melted butter hot ; stir the 
pounded anchovies, adding cayenne to the taste ; simmer three or four 
minutes, and, if liked, add a squeeze of lemon-juice. Another and a 
quicker way of making this sauce, is to stir in i^ table-spooniuls of 
anchovy essence to ^ a pint of melted butter, and to add seasoning to 
taste ; then boil the whole one minute, and senre hot. 

Apple Sauce for Goose and Roast Pork. — Pare, core, and slice some 
apples, and throw them into cold water to preserve their whiteness; 
take them out, and put them into a saucepan with only water sufficient 
to hinder them from burning, and to moisten them. When soft enough 
to pulp, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a piece of butter the 
size of a nutmeg, and brown sugar to the taste. Serve in a sauce 
tureen. 

Artichoke or Turnip Sauce for Soiled Meat (excellent). — Ingredients : 
Pared artichokes or turnips, r lb. ; fresh butter, i( oz. j flour, i large 
tea-spoonful (twice as much if all milk be used) ; salt, \ a tea-spoonful 
or more ; cream, or cream and milk mixed, from | to i pint 

Pare, slice, and boil quite tender some linely-grained mild turnips ; 
press the water from them thoroughly, and pass them through a sieve. 
Dissolve a slice of butter in a clean saucepan, and stir to it a large tea- 
spoonful of flour, or mix them smoothly together before they are put in, 
and shake the saucepan round until they boil Pour to them very 
gradually nearly a pint of thin cream (or of good milk mixed with a 
portion of cream) ; add the turnips, with a half tea-spoonful or more of 



444 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

salt, and when the whole is well mixed and veiy hot, pour it over 
boiled mutton, veal, lamb, or poultry. Sufficient sauce should be made 
for some to be served very hotvaz, tureen, and the remainder poured 
over the meat, so as to cover it entirely ; and when properly made, it 
greatly improves the appearance of a joint A little cayenne, tied in a 
muslin, may be boiled in the milk before it is mixed with the vegetables. 
Jerusalem artichokes make a more delicate sauce than turnips. The 
weight of both vegetables must be taken after they are pared. 

Asparagus Sauce. — Cut the green tender points of some young aspa- 
ragus into half-inch lengths, or into Jthe size of peas only ; wash them 
well, then drain, and throw them into plenty of boiling salt and water. 
When they are quite tender, which may be in from ten to fifteen 
minutes, turn them into a hot strainer and drain the water thoroughly 
firom them j put them at the instant of serving into \ a pint of thickened 
veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of 2 eggs, and well-seasoned with salt 
and cayenne or white pepper, or into \ b. pint of good melted butter ; 
add to this last a squeeze of lemon-juice. The asparagus will become 
yellow if reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before served. 

Bechamel or White Sauce, — ^Take an equal quantity (say a pint of 
each) of good cream and of strong pale veal gravy, and, by rapid 
boiling over a clear fire, reduce to nearly half; mix a table-spoonful of 
fine dry fiour, to pour to the remainder when it nearly boils. If it 
boils, it will curdle, or bum, and must be done over a slow fire. Then 
add the gravy ; stir and mix the sauce perfectly, and simmer for a few 
minutes longer. French cooks boil a few green onions, some branches 
of parsley, and a handful of mushrooms in the gravy before it is 
reduced, as all the flavour should be in the gravy. 

Benton Sauce (for hot or cold roast beef).— Grate or scrape some 
horseradish very fine ; add a little made mustard, some white sugar 
pounded, and 4 large spoonfuls of vinegar. 

Bread Sauce, — Put into a bright saucepan 3 oz. of stale crumbs of 
bread, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, a ^ of an inch of mace, 3 peppercorns, an 
onion, \ a salt-spoonful of salt, and f of a pint of new milk ; boil gently, 
and stir constantly for twenty minutes, then nib through a fine sieve ; 
put it back into the saucepan, and stir in either 2 table-spoonfuls of 
thick cream or an oz. of fresh butter. Serve in a tureen. 

Mdted Butter, — Mix, in the proportion of a tea-spoonfiil of flour to 4 
oz. of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and 
2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water; boil quick a minute, shaking it all 
the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and 
looks whiter. 

Caper Sauce for Fish, — ^To 6 spoonfuls of strong veal gravy or jelly, 
add \ a pint of rich melted butter, a table-spoonful of essence of 



RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 445 

anchovies, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne, and from 2 to 3 table- 
spoonfuls of capers. When there is no gravy at hand, substitute \ a 
wine-glassful of mushroom ketchup or Harvey's sauce, though these 
deepen the colour rather too much. 

To keep capers, add fresh vinegar that has been scalded and become 
cold, and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes them soft 

Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton, — Slice 3 or 4 good dessert-spoonfuls 
of capers into the third of a pint of good melted butter made very 
smoothly with milk ; add about a table-spoonful of their liquor, or a 
little Chili vinegar; keep stirring it constantly; let the sauce just 
sinmier. Some chop the capers once or twice. For a laxge joint, in- 
crease the quantity of butter to ^ a pint. 

Pickled nasturtium pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are preferred 
to the capers. 

Cherry Sauee (delicious for boiled batter,* or other sweet puddings). 
From June to August — Stone z lb. of cherries, and pound the kernels 
to a smooth paste in a mortar ; put i oz. of butter and a table-spoonful 
of flour into a saucepan. Stir them over the fire till of a pale brown, 
then add \ pint of water, i wine-glassful of port wine to the cherries and 
pounded kernels. Simmer these gently till the cherries are quite 
cooked (this will be in about a quarter of an hour) ; rub the whole 
through a hair sieve ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a litde 
grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, and sugar to taste ; boil the sauce 
for another five minutes, and pour over the pudding. 

Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls. — Peel off" the outside skin of ^ a 
lb. of chestnuts ; put them for a few minutes into boiling water ; take off 
the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan with 2 strips of 
lemon-peel and \ pint of stock ; simmer them about an hour and a half, 
till the chestnuts are quite tender. With a wooden spoon rub the 
whole through a hair sieve ; add ^ pint of cream or milk, with cayenne 
to taste. Then (do not boil) just let it simmer, stirring all the time ; 
serve veiy hot and quickly. A smaller quantity of thickening may be 
required, if milk is used instead of cream, according to the taste. 

E^ Sauce (very good for salt fish). — Boil 4 fresh eggs for quite 
fifteen minutes, then lay them into plenty of firesh water, and let them 
remain till they are perfectly cold. Break the shells by rolling them on 
a table, take them off, separate the whites firom the yolks, and divide 
all of the latter into \ inch dice ; mince 2 of the whites tolerably small, 
mix them lightly, and stir them into the third of a pint of rich melted 
butter, or of white sauce. Salt as required ; serve the whole as hot as 
possible. Add a little lemon-juice, if liked. 

Fennel Sauce for boiled Mackerel, — Dip a bunch of fennel into boiling 
salt and water, and boil for two minutes, squeeze out the water, and 



446 THINGS 4 LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

chop the fennel quite fine (leaving out the stalks) ; knead 3 oz. of butter 
with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into \ a pint of boiling 
water. Boil ten minutes \ stir in a table-spoonful of the chopped fennel, 
and serve at once. 

Fish Sauce for Fried Salmon, — Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, and 
when cold, pound the yolks to powder ; mix in a tea-spoonful of flour 
of mustard, a ^ of a grain of cayenne, and a salt-spoonful of salt ; beat 
the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in till quite smooth (always turning 
the same way) ; then add 7 table-spoonfuls, drop by drop, of the finest 
salad (Lucca) oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, and 3 tea-spoon- 
fuls of tarragon vinegar ; set the mortar in a cold place, or on ice, for 
an hour ; then stir in a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, 
and poiu: in the centre of the dish. This sauce requires care, and 
should be made half an hour before the fish is commenced ; it must 
be of the consistency of very thick cream and perfectly smooth. 

Fish Sauce. — ^A gill of India soy, a wine-glassful of shalot vinegar, \ a 
pint of mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup in equal proportions, the 
juice of a lemon, and its peel chopped very fine, a couple of anchovies 
boned, 2 tea-spoonfuls of soluble cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of 
horseradish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. I^t all these be put 
into a bottle and corked down close ; place it where it will be con- 
stantly seen, and whenever opportunity arises, give the bottle a good 
Ifearty shaking, but do not think of using the contents till they have 
been at least a month mixing : you may then fill small sauce bottles 
with the mixture, strained. 

If fowls are of a bad colour, make a sauce as follows : — Cut the livers, 
slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley, and hard eggs ; add salt, and 
mix them with butter; boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This 
will do also for roast rabbits. 

Sauce for Wild Fowl. — Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same 
quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, pepper, salt, a grate of 
nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and 
flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. 

Fruit Sauce for Puddings. — Half a pint of any kind of summer fruit, 
a \ lb. of loaf sugar, and a wine-glassful of water; boil and skim till 
the juice is a rich syrup, then stiain it over the pudding ; jam or jelly 
may be dissolved and strained when fresh fiiiit is not to be had. 

Christopher Norths Sauce fir Game or Meat (excellent). — Mix 
thoroughly together 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, i glass of port 
wine, I dessert-spoonful of pounded white sugar, i dessert-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, i table-spoonful of lemon-juice, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Place the vessel in 
which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water, and heat the sauce 



RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 447 

gradually. Do not let it boil, and serve directly it is ready; or if 
bottled immediately, it will keep good for a fortnight 

German Pudding Sauce (a delicious). — Dissolve from 3 to 4 oz. of 
fine sugar in half a pint of Madeira or sherry, but do not let the wine 
boil ; stir it hot to the well-beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs, and mill or 
whisk the sauce over a gentle fire until it is well-thickened and highly 
frothed. Pour it over a plum, or any kind of sweet boiled pudding, of 
which it much improves the appearance. Half the quantity is sufficient 
for one of moderate size. The addition of a dessert-spoonful of strained 
lemon-juice to the wine is a great improvement 

Note. — ^The Germans use a small mill — like a chocolate mill — ^to 
froth their sauces. It may be had at a very trifling cost; or, on an 
emergency, 2 silver forks fastened together at the handles may be used 
instead. Care must be taken that these sauces do not curdle. It is 
safer to put any preparations of this kind into a white jar, placed over 
the fire in a pan of boiling water, and to stir {one way) or mill it till 
sufficiently thickened. The jar should not be half filled, and be large 
enough to allow the sauce to be worked easily. The water should not 
reach to within two or three inches of the brim. 

A German Sauce. — This is a general favourite for made dishes. Put 
\ pint of sauce taumee into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, which have been previously strained. Let it just 
simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle ; and after they are added 
to the sauce, stir one way without ceasing. This sauce is used for 
many made dishes. 

Gooseberry Sauce for a large Dish of Boiled Mackerel. — May to July. — 
Boil till tender a pint of green gooseberries in water, then strain and 
rub them through a sieve (they should boil from twenty minutes to half 
an hour) ; put 3 table-spoonfids of Bechamel (or good veal gravy) and 
2 oz. of fresh butter into a saucepan, with pepper, grated nutmeg, and 
salt to taste ; mix all these well together with the pulp of the goose- 
berries, and heat gradually through. It is considered an improvement 
to add a little pounded sugar to this sauce. 

Green Sauce for Ducklings or Green Geese, — From June to August — 
Boil half a pint of green gooseberries in water until quite tender ; mash 
and press them through a sieve ; put the pulp into a saucepan with i 
tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, \ pint of sorrel juice, i oz. of fresh 
butter, I glass of sherry. Simmer for three or four minutes, and serve 
very hot 

Horseradish Sauce. — Grate very small a stick of young horseradish ; 
then, with a couple of table-spoonfiils of it, mix a small tea-spoonfiil of 
salt and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it briskly, and add by degrees 
a wine-glassful of vinegar. Excellent to serve with cold roast bee£ 



448 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Lemon Sauce for Puddings. — Rub the rind of 2 lemons with 3 or. of 
loaf sugar to imbibe the essence. Put the sugar into a saucepan with a 
wine-glassful of gin, a wine-glassful of water, and the juice of the lemons, 
and boil till in a syrup. Then serve quite hot 

Lobster Sauce for Salmon^ TurboU BriU^ etc — Pick the meat from the 
shells of a hen lobster, and cut it into small square pieces ; put the 
spawn (which will be found under the tail of the fish) into a mortar with 
^ oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth ; rub it through a hair sieve, 
and cover up till wanted. Put | of a pint of melted butter; put in all 
the ingredients except the lobster meat, and well-mix the sauce before 
the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not 
come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat to get thoroughly 
hot, but not to boil^ as the colour would be spoiled, and this sauce should 
always have a bright red appearance. If it is intended to be served 
with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and nibbed through a 
sieve without butter) should be saved to garnish with ; very little must 
be used, as the flavour and goodness of this sauce much depends on 
having a proper quantity of spawn. The melted butter should be 
seasoned with salt and cayenne to taste, a little poimded mace (if liked), 
a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfiils of cream : 
the latter may be omitted if economy is desired, and the remains of a 
lobster may be used with care. Melted butter made with milk answers 
very well, and makes the sauce a nice white coloiu:. 

Lobster Sauce for Boiled Turbot^ etc, — It is almost indispensable that 
you procure a ?ien lobster in order to make this sauce as good as it 
should be. Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine fi^sh-boiled 
hen lobster ; cut it into pieces the third of an inch square. Break up 
the head and shell, bruise a salt-spoonful of live spawn, put them into 
a saucepan with a pint of water and a blade of mace, and boil for twenty 
minutes. Strain through a fine sieve ; put the liquor into a saucepan. 
Knead 6 oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir in. 
Boil a quarter of an hour; add the pieces of lobster and a dessert- 
spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. Stir in a 
wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. This is sufficient for a turbot 
weighing 8 or 9 lbs. 

Maitre d" Hotel (Hot) Sauce, for Calfs Head, boiled Eels, and different 
Fish, — Ingredients : One slice of minced ham, a few poultry trimmings, 
I clove of garlic, i bay leaf, 2 shalots, } of a pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, 
I dessert-spoonful of flour, i heaped table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, the juice of ^ a large lemon, \ tea- 
spoonful of pounded sugar. Put the minced ham at the bottom of the 
stewpan, and over it the poultry trimmings or veal (if they are not at 
hand), with the garlic, shalotSi and bay leafl Pour in the water, and let 



RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 449 

the whole simmer gently for one hour, or till the liquor is reduced to a 
full ^ pint Then stir the gravy ; put it in another saucepan ; make 
a thickening of butter and flour, and stir it to the gravy over a nice 
clear fire until rather thick, but perfectly smooth, care being taken 
that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well ; add the other 
ingredients ; then do not boil, but gradually heat the sauce. If this 
sauce is intended for an entr^, it must be of sufficient tliickness to 
adhere to what it is meant to cover. 

Maitre d'Hoiei^ French. — Make a thickening with a small table- 
spoonful of flour and 2 oz. of butter. Keep these stirred constantly 
for nearly fifteen minutes ; then add \ a pint of pale, rich veal gravy to 
them boiling, in small portions, mixing up well as it is added, and 
letting it boil up between each ; if this is not done, the butter will be 
likely to float upon the surface. Simmer the sauce for a few minutes. 
Skim it well ; then add pepper, 2 or 3 tea-spoonfuls of minced parsley, 
the strained juice of i lemon, salt it required. For some dishes this 
sauce is thickened with about 4 yolks of eggs to the pint The French 
generally work a small bit of butter into their sauce before taking from 
the fire, to give them mellowness. 

Mint Sauce, — Pick and wash fresh leaves of mint, and chop them 
finely. To every table-spoonful of chopped mint allow a tea-spoonful 
of fine raw sugar ; mix the mint and the sugar very thoroughly, and then 
just moisten with vinegar, and let it stand for about an hour. Just 
before sending to table add as much vinegar as will make the sauce of 
an agreeable consistence. 

Note. — Loaf sugar is used, but good raw answers quite as well, and 
to many tastes is preferable. 

Mushroom Ketchup. — Carefully examine the lot of mushrooms, and 
remove any that are unsoimd or have the worm ; pluck out the stalks, 
and place the mushrooms selected for use in a deep dish, with their tops 
downwards ; strew a liberal handful of salt over them. In two hours you 
will perceive a quantity of dark-coloured liquid at the bottom of the 
dish, and the brown interior of the fungus undeigoing a rapid dissolu- 
tion ; with a silver dessert spoon remove the interior firom its leathern 
top, throwing away the latter. As soon as you have completed this, 
add a tea-spoonful of soluble cayenne, half a dozen allspice, and boil 
the liquor till you have thoroughly dissolved all the mushrooms. Strain 
and bottle for use. 

Nonpareil Sauce. — ^Put i pint of tomato juice into a stewpan ; have 

ready three large apples and 4 large onions baked ; break them up, and 

add them to the liquor, with \ pint of walnut vinegar, | of mushroom 

ketchup, ^ pint onion vinegar, and i^ pint of plain vinegar. Grate 2 

nutmegs ; mix with | tea-spoonful cayenne, 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt ; of 

2 F 



4SO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

ground mustard and curry powder, each 2 table-spoonfuls, the same of 
anchovy sauce, 3 table-spoonftils of moist sugar, and x green capsicum 
finely chopped. Mix all these well, and add to the contents of the 
stewpan. Boil slowly, keeping it stirred for half an hour ; mash through 
a hair sieve, and when cold, bottle for use. If well made and closely 
corked, this sauce will keep for an indefinite time, and be found a 
capital relish for cold meat, as well as an excellent flavouring for gravies. 

Onion Sauce. — rPeel, and cut in four, 6 good-sized onions, and boil 
th^m till tender with i turnip. Strain and chop the onions (the turnip 
is only used to make the onions milder). Press them through a sieve, 
and boil up in ^ a pint of melted butter, made with milk instead of 
water. 

Oratigt Sauce for Diplomatic Pudding. — Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar 
in the strained juice of 2 oranges j boil till it becomes a thick syrup, 
then add 2 table-spoonfuls of rum. Serve in the dish. 

Oyster Sauce. — Beard the oysters, and stew them in their own liquor, 
with enough mace to cover the point of a knife. Beat up the yolk of 
an e^ in melted butter, and then add the oysters and liquor. 

White Oyster Sauce. — Rub 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a piece of 
butter the size of an &^\ melt these gently in a stewpan, and add | of 
a pint of stock to thicken, with ^ a spoonful of salt, the juice of ^ a 
lemon, and a gill of cream. The oysters should be bearded and stewed 
in their own liquor separately; when the sauce is as thick as melted 
butter, add the fish, and stir them together. This is applicable for 
boiled turkey, fowl, or cod-fish. 

Parisian Sauce for Parisian Pudding.-^'BtzX. the yolks of 3 fi'csh 
eggs ; add 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar and \ a pint of Marsala ; stir over a 
slow fire till it thickens; add ^ gill of cream stirred in by d^ees. 
Serve directly. 

Parsley y a good substitute for Caper Sauce. — ^Boil slowly some parsley to 
let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted 
butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. 
Boil up, and serve in a tureen. 

Piquante Sauce. — Put 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with 6 shalots 
and I small carrot, both cut into small slices. Add to it, minced 
rather finely, 2 slices of lean ham, i small bunch of savoury herbs 
and parsley, \ a bay leaf, 2 cloves, i blade mace, 3 whole allspice, 
6 pepper-corns, and let them simmer over a slow fire till the bottom 
of the stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with 
a wooden spoon, and add \ a pint of stock, 4 table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar, some salt, \ salt-spoonful of cayenne, i small lump of sugar. 
Simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour ; skim off ai7 &t ; strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot 



RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 451 



The quantity of vinegar (whether less or more) must be decided by 
the taste, as the sauce, though it should be sharp, must not be too acid. 

Plum Pudding Sauce, — ^Two oz. very good butter, i wine-glassfiil of 
brandy, z of Madeira, and pounded sugar to taste. Put in a basin the 
pounded sugar with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand till 
dissolved, then add the rest of the brandy and the Madeira. Serve in 
a tureen, or pour it over the pudding. 

Rimolade, — Chop very fine a shalot and 4 or 5 sprigs of parsley. Beat 
up, quickly, the yolks of a couple of eggs, and on them pour Florence oil 
till the mixture be as thick as new butter. Add a tea-spoon^ of French 
vinegar, a salt-spoonful of salt, another of soluble cayenne, and then stir 
in the shalot and parsley. You will find your trouble well rewarded. 

Sc^o Sauce^ delicious for various Puddings^ as Bread, Raisins, Rice, 
etc. — Ingredients : One table-spoonful of sago, \ pint of water, ^ pint of 
port or sherry, the rind and juice of i small lemon, sugar to taste, 
a little pounded cinnamon, when the flavour is liked. 

Mode. — ^Wash the sago in 2 or 3 waters, then put it into a saucepan 
with the water and lemon-peel ; let it simmer gently by the side of the 
fire for ten minutes, then take out the lemon peel, add the remaining 
ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be partiailar to strain the lemon- 
juice before adding it to the sauce. 

Shrimp Sauce. — The flavour of this is much improved by boiling the 
shells and pea, after the fish have been picked, straining the water off*, 
and using it with an equal proportion of milk, to warm up the butter 
and flour. The shrimps will require only two minutes on the fire. 

Spice Mixture, delicious for Steaks, Chops, or Gravies. — ^Pound the 
following ingredients, mix tliem and blend thoroughly together : — ^Three 
drachms of black pepper, 3 drachms of ginger, 3 drachms of cinnamon, 
\ oz. of cayenne, \ oz. of mace, 7 cloves, z oz. of grated nutmeg, i^ oz. 
of white pepper. The quantity of cayenne may be increased according 
to the taste. Put aU into a very dry bottle for use. 

The Indian receipt for Curry Powder. — One oz. of coriander seed, i 
oz. of poppy seed, i oz. of turmeric, \ oz. of ganger, \ a drachm of 
cinnamon, 8 grains of mustard seed, \ oz. of red chillies. Pound all 
the above ingredients to a fine powder; put them into a botde corked 
closely down. 

Parsley, Fried for garnishing. — ^Wash, pick, and dry some young 
parsley thoroughly in a cloth, and if you have not a ' wire basket ' for it, 
throw it into a fiying-pan with boiling lard or clarified dripping, and when 
crisp, take it out with a slice ; dry it before the fire : it will be ready for 
use when thoroughly crisp. 

Curry Powder, Receipt of Capt. White (very good). — ^Well-pound and 
mix the following ingredients together, and place in the sun, or before the 



4S» THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

fire, stirring it firequently : — ^Foor oz. of cumming seed, 4 oz. of Jamaica 
ginger, 4 oz. of black pepper, 1 lb. of pale turmeric seed, 8 oz. of 
coriander seed, 10 oz. of carraway seed, \ oz. of cardamoms, 2 oz. of 
cayenne pepper. 

A Store Sauce. — Pound some green walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out 
the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the 
clear juice, and to every pint of it add i lb. of anchovies, i drachm of 
cloves, I drachm of Jamaica ginger bruised, i drachm of mace. Boil 
all these till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again ; 
put in 8 shalots to every pint, and boil again. To every pint of the 
boiled liquor add 2 table-spoonfub of soy, \ a pint of vinegar, and ^ a 
pint of port wine, and bottle for use. Cork tightly, and seal the corks. 

Stare Sauce, — Boil the following ingredients gently for about half an 
hour : — One pint of vinegar, i table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, 2 
table-spoonfuls of soy, ^ an oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic 
Strain and bottle. 

Superlative Mixture for Stews^ etc.^ and Gravies. — ^Mix the following 
ingredients well together, then bottle and cork it closely \ keep it in a 
warm closet for three weeks before using. The longer it is kept the 
better ; shake the bottle before using. Ingredients : — One quart of mush- 
room ketchup, I pint of port wine, 6 pickled walnuts, a table-spoonful 
of horseradish finely grated, a table-spoonful of curry powder, a salt- 
spoonful of celery seed pounded, a salt-spoonfiil of cayenne, i oz. of 
garlic, I oz. of anchovies pounded, \ a pint of soy, the grated rind of i 
and the strained juice of 3 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, 
a tea-spoonful of yellow mustard-seed, a tea-spoonful of ground ginger. 

Sweet Sauce^ for Puddings^ Breads Rice^ or Batter^ etc. — Make \ a 
pint of melted butter with milk (omit the salt in the butter) ; stir in 
3 table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar ; add nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, 
or lemon rind grated. Previous to making the melted butter, about 12 
bitter almonds may be infused into the milk for half an hour, then 
strained, and added to the other ingredients. 

Sweet Sauce, for Venison. — Put into a stewpan i glass of port wine, 
and red currant jelly (a small pot of) ; set them over the fire to melt, 
but not boil ; pour in a tureen, and then serve. 

Tomato Sauce, for keeping. — ^To 12 tomatoes allow 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
the best powdered ginger, i dessert-spoonful of salt, i head of garlic 
chopped fine, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, i dessert-spoonful of Chili 
vinegar. Choose ripe tomatoes ; put them into a stone jar, and stand 
them in a cool oven till quite tender. When cold, take the skins and 
stalks from them ; mix the pulp with the liquor which is in the jar, but 
do not strain it ; add all the other ingredients ; mix well together, and 
put it into well-sealed bottles. It will be kept good for years if stored 



RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 453 

away in a cool, dry place. It is ready for use when made, but is of a 
better flavour after a week or two. For immediate use, the skins 
should be put into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a little of the different 
ingredients, and will be nice for st^ws or hashes. Should it not appear 
to keep, turn it out, and boil it up with a little additional cayenne and 
ginger. 

Sauce Toumie, — Ingredients : One pint of white stock, thickening of 
flour and butter, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, 6 chopped 
mushrooms, 6 green onions. Put the stock into a stewpan, with the 
herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about 
half an hour ; stir in sufficient thickening to make it of a proper con- 
sistency ; let it boil for a few minutes ; skim off all the fat ; strain and 
serve. A little cream is considered by some to be an agreeable addition. 

Vanilla Sauced/or Puddings. — Stir well together 2 eggs well beaten in 
\ a pint of milk and 2 oz. of sugar, and flavour with 10 drops of vaniUa, 
or according to the size of the eggs or the strength of the essence. 
Then put all into a small jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and stir the sauce till it thickens, about eight to ten minutes ; it will 
curdle if allowed to boil, and must be stirred one way. This sauce is 
nice for plum, bread, or any dry pudding, and is served separately in a 
tureen. The flavouring for this sauce may be varied, according to the 
ingredients in the pudding with which it is served. 

Walnut Ketchup (very fine). — Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed 
juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well ; then put in 2 
lbs. of anchovies, bones and liquor, 2 lbs. of shalots, z oz. of doves, z 
oz. of mace, i oz. of pepper, and z clove of garlic Let all simmer till 
the shalots sink, then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle, and 
share the spice with each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It 
will keep twenty years, and is not good the first Be very careful to 
express the juice at home ; the bought is rarely unadulterated. (Some 
make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe, about September ; 
but neither the flavour nor colour is then so fine.) Procure the walnuts 
at the time when you can run a pin through them ; this is about the 
beginning to the middle of July. 

White Sauce. — Boil ^ a pint of new milk with half an inch of mace 
and two inches of thin peel of a lemon. Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs 
with a gill of good cream. Strain the milk, and beat it by degrees into 
the eggs ; then put the sauce into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over 
a gentle heat till it thickens. Serve immediately. Or, knead 3 oz. ot 
fresh butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into \ a pint 
of boiling milk. BoU ten minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 
serve directly. 



PICKLING. 



' Hire you havt liat tekick in itself is good, made httier fy tioringefit^ — FuLLEB. 

ALWAYS use stone jais, as vinegar and salt will penetrate through 
earthenware. Use the best vinegar. Never put in the hand to 
take pickles out of the jar, but use a wooden spoon with little holes 
bored through it If you take out more pickle than you require to use, 
do not put what is left back into the jar, and be careful to keep grease 
from your pickles. Keep the Jar securely covered. The glazing on 
earthen jars is made from lead or arsenic, from which vinegar dtam 
forth poison. Keep pickles in a dry place. 

To pUkle Red Cabbage. — (July and August ; best when the frost has 
touched the leaves.) — Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer 
with salt ; let it drain two days ; then put it into a jar, and pour boiling 
vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beetroot Those 
who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar; the propor- 
tion to each quart of vinegar will be i oz. of whole black pepper, \ oz. 
of ginger well bruised, and, if liked, a little cayenne. A little brtdsed 
cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds to the appearance ; or cauli- 
flower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a 
beautiful red. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage, seasonable 
in July and August; but the pickle will be more crisp if the frost has 
touched the leaves. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place 

To Pickle Ytmng Cucumbers. — Choose young gherkins ; spread them 
on dishes ; salt them, and let them lie a week ; drain them, and, putting ■ 
them in a jar, pour boihi^ vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, 
covered with plenty of vine leaves. If they do not become a tolerable 
good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, 
and, when it boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves ; 
and thus do till they are as good a colour as you wish. Seasonable 
from June to August. 



THE ART OF PICKLING. 455 

Indian Pickle. — Lay a lb. of white ginger in water one night, then 
scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall 
be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a lb. of garlic three days, then put it in 
the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare 
various sorts of vegetables thus : — Quarter small white cabbages ; salt 
three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut 
in the branches ; cut off the green from radishes ; cut celery in three- 
inch lengths ; cut young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of 
elder, which will look like bamboo. ' Apples and cucumbers choose 
of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters if not too 
large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the 
latter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar, ^d in twelve hours 
drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, ^ of a lb. 
of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the 
quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and i oz. of turmeric, 
to be ready against the vegetables should be dried. When they are 
ready, observe the following directions : — ^Put some of them into a 
2-quart stone jar, and pour over them x quart of boiling vinegar. Next 
day, take out those vegetables, and, when drained, put them into a 
large stock-jar, and, boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the 
vegetables ; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed, till 
each set is cleansed from the dust which has fallen on them by being 
so long doing ; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of 
mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole 
of the vinegar should be scalded, but set to be cool before put to the 
spice. Stop the jar tight This pickle will not be ready for a year ; 
but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, by giving the 
cauliflower one scald in water, alter salting and drying as above, but 
without the preparative^vinegar ; then pour the vinegar that has the 
spice and garlic boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the 
vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it 
over them hot, will plump them. 

Mixed Pickle, — (The pickle-liquor to be made in May or June.) — 
Have a large jar (with a rightly-fitting lid), in which put as much 
vinegar as required, reserving a little to mix the various powders to a 
smooth paste. Put into a basin the mustard, turmenc, pepper, and 
cayenne ; mix them with vinegar, and stir well till no lumps remain ; 
add all the ingredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor 
in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a 
wooden spoon, when it will be ready for the different vegetables to be 
added to it As these come into season, have them gathered on a dry 
day and put into the pickle, after wiping them with a dry cloth to free 
them from moisture. The cauliflowers must be divided into small 



4S6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the end of the 
season, when as many vegetables have been added as could be pro- 
cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the 
ingredients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat for twelve 
months. Keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar, and stir its contents 
every morning while the pickle is being made. The proportions used 
to each gallon of vinegar are a ^ of a lb. of mustard, a ^ of a lb. 
of bruised ginger, a ^ of a lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, i^ oz. of 
turmeric, i oz. of ground black pepper, ^ of an oz. of cayenne ; cauli- 
flowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nastur- 
tiums, capsicums. 

Pickled Onums, — (Middle of July to end of August.) — In the month 
of September choose the small, white, round onions ; take off the brown 
skin j have a very nice tin stewpan of boiling water ready ; throw in as 
many onions as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear on the 
outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them 
on a clean cloth ; cover them close with another, and scald some more; 
and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, 
or wide-mouthed botdes, and pour over them the best white wine 
vinegar, just hot, but not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should 
the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. The 
Reading onion is the best kind. 

Spanish Onions to Pickle. — (September to February.) — ^Put a layer 
of onions cut in thin slices in the bottom of a jar, then sprinkle with 
salt and cayenne ; continue this till the jar is full, then pour in vinegar 
sufficient to cover the whole. In a month the pickle will be fit for use. 
Tie it tight down with a leather or bladder. 

A Pickle that can be used t/ie same day it is made. — (August and Sep- 
tember.) — Slice sufficient onions of a medium size, sauce apples and 
cucumbers, an equal quantity of each, sufficient to fill a pint stone jar. 
Be particular to cut them in very thin slices, then put them in alternate 
layers, with 3 tea-spoonfuls of cayenne and i^ tea-spoonfiils of salt. 
Pour in soy and sherr}', i wine-glassfal of each, and fill up with 
vinegar. 




SUMMER BEVERAGES, LIQUEURS, Etc. 



• If thou wilt obiervt 
The rule */hot TOO MUCH, by temperatui taught 

In what thou laftt and drinUst, sakingfrvm them 

Hat nourishment, iiol glultanoui ddight. 
Till many yean ever Iky hiad return: 

So mayst thou live, till like ripe fruit Ihtm drop 

Into thy molhet's lap ; or be vntk mi 

Cather'd, not harshly fluek'd, in death mature.'— tin-TOS. 

Pumh & la Ford. — To make punch on a large scale, select 3 dozen 
of lemons, the coats of which are smooth, and whose rinds are not too 
thin. These should be peeled with a sharp knife into a large earthen 
vessel, taking care that none of the rind be detached but that portion 
in which the cells are placed containing the essential oil. When the 
first part of the process is completed, add z lbs. of lump sugar, and stir 
the peel and sugar together with an oar-shaped piece of wood for nearly 
half an hour; by this means a greater quantity of the essential oil will 
be extracted. Boiling water may be next poured into the vessel, and 
the whole well stirred until the sugar is completely dissolved. The 
lemons should then be cut and squeezed, the juice strained from the 
kernels, and these be next placed in a separate jug, and boiling water 
poured upon them, for the pips will be found to be enveloped in a 
thick mucilage, full of flavour; half the lemon-juice must now be 
thrown in, and as soon as the kernels are free from their transparent 
coating, their liquor should be strained and added. 

The sherbet may now be tasted ; more acid or sugar applied as 
required, and care taken not to render the lemonade too watery. The 
sherbet is now fit for measurement, and to every 3 quarts a pint of 
cognac brandy and a pint of old Jamaica rum should be allotted, the 
spirit being well stirred as poured in ; bottling immediately to follow, 
and, when completed, the brewage to be kept in a cool cellar, or tank, 
till required. Punch thus made is much improved by time and a coot 
atmosphere. 



458 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Soda Negus. — ^A most refreshing and elegant beverage, paiticulariy 
for those who do not take punch or grog, is thus made : — ^Put \ a pint 
of port wine, with 4 hnnps of sugar, 3 cloves, and enough grated nut- 
meg to cover a shilling, into a saucepan; wann it well, but do not 
suffer it to boil ; pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the wann wine 
decant a bottle of soda water. You will have an effervescing and deli- 
cious negus by this means. 

Cherry Brandy. — Put into a wide-necked bottle as many Morella 
cherries as it will hold; add a few peach or nectarine kernels, or bitter 
almonds ; fill the bottle with the best French brandy, and cork down. 
In a month after, add a ^ of a lb. of loaf sugar to every pint of brandy. 

Elder Wine, — In 2 gallons of water boil i gallon of elder berries for 
one hour, or until the berries sink. For every gallon of liquor provide 
3^ lbs. of sug^ ; strain the liquor over the sugar ; when nearly cold, 
add a little yeast The next day put it into a cask, and let it work till 
it has ceased to make any hissing noise. Boil 2 or 3 cloves of ginger, 
a few cloves, and some allspice for a short time ; then put them in a 
small muslin bag, adding a pebble, that the spice may sink to the 
bottom of the cask. Bung down close. If you make 9 gallons of 
wine, you will require about 4^ oz. of the above spice for that quantity. 
The addition of a few sloes or damsons will be found a great improve- 
ment 

Raspberry^ Strawberry^ Currant or Orange Effervescing Draughts. — 
Take i quart of the juice of either of the above fruits ; filter it, and 
boil it into a syrup with i lb. of powdered loaf sugar. To this add i^ 
oz. of tartaric acid. When cold, put it into a bottle, and keep it well 
corked. When required for use, fill a half-pint tumbler three parts full 
of water, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Then stir in briskly 
a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a very delicious drink 
will be formed. The colour may be improved by adding a very small 
portion of cochineal to the syrup at the time of boiling. 

Ginger Beer- — Pour 4 quarts of boiling water upon i lb. of loaf sugar, 
z oz. of powdered ginger, and the rind of a lemon chopped fine ; cover 
it over, and let it stand for six hours ; then add i oz. of cream of tartar, 
the juice of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of yeast; three hours after, 
you can begiiT to bottle, t3ring the corks well down. If kept in a warm 
place it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. 

Champagne d la Minute. — If you are about to drink sharp cider, put 
half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a dessert-spoonful of finely- 
powdered sugar at the bottom of your glass ; have the cider poured on 
this, and you will allow that it is a very pleasant, though humble^ imi- 
tation of champagne. 

Drink for the Dog Days, — A bottle of soda water poured into a laxge 



RECEIPTS FOR SUMMER BEVERAGES, ETC. 459 

goblet in which a lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool 
and refreshing draught ; but should be taken with some care, and posi- 
tively avoided whilst you are very hot 

Milk Punch. — This seductive and nectareous drink can be made by 
the direction herewith given : — ^To a couple of quarts of spring water add 
I quart of genuine milk. Mix i quart of old Jamaica rum with 2 of 
French brandy, and put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short 
time; let it stand for an hour. Filter through blotting-paper into 
bottles ; and, should you find that the liquid is cloudy, which it should 
not be, you may clarify by adding a small portion of isinglass to each 
botde. This receipt will furnish half a dozen punch. 

To Ripen BottUd Porter or Ale. — May, being a good season for 
bottling malt liquor for autumn or winter drinking, a couple of raisins 
or half a dozen grains of rice should be put into each bottle, which will 
mainly assist in generating the required efferve^ence. 

Gin Punch. — Following the plan already given for making Punch a 
la Ford, add good gin, or Hollands if you can procure it, in the proper 
proportion before prescribed ; this, bottled and kept in a cool cellar or 
cistern, will be found an economical and excellent summer drink. 

West India experience. — To a tumbler filled with two -thirds of 
lemonade, add a wine-glass of brandy, and fill to the brim with green 
lime shrub. 

A Hint from Barhadoes. — To render a glass of punch more than 
usually acceptable, add a table-spoonful of Guava jelly to it 

Whisky Cordial. — (Make this in July.) — Put into a large jug a lb. of 
ripe white currants stripped from their stalks ; add a ^ of an oz. of 
grated ginger, the rind of 2 lemons, and a quart of whisky. Let it 
remain for twenty-four hours closely covered in the jug ; strain through 
a hair sieve; add i lb. of lump sugar, and let it stand twelve hours 
longer; then bottle, and well cork it 

Lemon Syrup, — Boil 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in i lb. of water. When the 
syrup is clarified, add an equal quantity of fresh lemon-juice ; mix both 
together, and let it simmer for ten minutes. 

Raspberry Vin^ar, — Pick 2 quarts of raspberries, and pour over 
them a quart of vinegar ; let them steep twenty-four hours, then strain 
through a sieve, but do not press the fruit Have 2 more quarts of 
Iresh fiiiit, and pour this liquor over them, leaving them to steep tor 
twenty-four hours ; strain again, and to every pint of juice allow i^ lbs. 
of loaf-sugar. Pour all into a deep jar, which set in hot water until the 
sugar is entirely dissolved. Take oflf the scum, and bottle for use. 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 



' jij whtn seme skilful eeot, lo fUase rack guest. 
Would in one mijiltire egmfrekenJ a feast, 
fVith due pn^erium, and judicious cart.' — Pope. 

EVERY kind of preserve should be made in a. copper or brass 
preserving-pan (uncovered) ; it must be scrupulously clean and 
bright inside. The pots or bottles must be sound, and perfectly clean 
and dry. Pots should be filled within a quarter of an inch of the top, 
and bottles just above the shoulder. The following day they must be 
closely covered with strong cap paper (thin whitey brown), which must 
be made to adhere round the edge, and then brushed over with the 
white of an egg, so as to exclude the air. Each pot should be written 
upon, to show its contents and date of making. Fruit fbi jellies and 
jams must be quite ripe and fresh, and gathered in dry weather ; in such 
case the preserves cannot fail to be good, and the cost is something less 
than half that paid for those ready bought It may be well to know 
that the weight is reduced about one-third in making, and also that lb, 
pots only hold 13 oz., and \ lb. pots 7 oz. 

Gather the firuit when it is dry. Do not boil the fruit too long, as 
that hardens it ; pour boiling water over the sieves used. Let the pots 
and jars containing fresh-made sweets remain vncovcred for two days, 
tbeo soak a split bladder and tie it tightly over the top ; in diying, 
it will shrink to the net, and render the latter perfectly air-tight Keep 
preserves in a dry, but not in a wann place. Be sure to use sufficient 
sugar; this, with keeping them air-tight, is the only way to avoid the 
risk of their spoiling. 

To clarify Sugar far Sva/Kuais, — For each lb. of sugar aDow ^ a f»n( 
of water, and for every 3 lbs., allow the white of an ^g. Blix when 
cold, boil a few minntes, and skim it ; let it stand ten minntcs, then 
skim it again, and strain it 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 461 

To clarify Isinglass, — Dissolve an oz. of isinglass in a cupful of boiling 
water ; skim it, and drain it through a coarse cloth. Jellies, candies, and 
blancmange should be made in a clean copper pot, or a bell-metal pre- 
serving-pan, and stirred with a silver or wooden spoon. 

Candied Fruits, — Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to 
candy thickness, afterwards dry it Grapes may be thus dipped un- 
cooked, and then dried. Or fruit may be taken from the syrup when 
preserved, rolled in powdered sugar, and afterwards set on a sieve to 
diy. 

Bottled Fruit. — Currants, gooseberries, greengages, and other fruits, 
may be preserved by putting them, after being carefully picked, into 
open-mouthed glass bottles, shaking them so as to have each bottle well 
filled, and then placing the bottles, slightly corked, into an oven, nearly 
cold, for five hours ; when you observe the fruit get into wrinkles, you 
may take out the bottles, cork well down, and cover with leather and 
wax. Be sure to keep the bottles in a dry place. 

Short Crust for sweet Pastry. — Crumble very lightly ^ lb. butter into a 
lb. of flour, breaking it quite small Well mix with them 2 oz. of sifted 
sugar, a little salt, with enough milk to make a smooth and rather firm 
paste. Bake it slowly, and keep it pale ; it will rise in the oven, and be 
very light. It must be well made, and very lightly handled. 

Apple felly. — Fill a stewpan with apples, simply cut in half and 
quartered, then put enough cold water to cover them, and stew gently 
by a clear fire till the apples are quite of a pulp. When done, put all 
into a jelly (flannel) bag to strain over a basin all night Then add to 
each pint of juice ^ a lb. of sifted sugar, and the juice and rind of z or 
2 lemons (according to taste), and stew and stir gently by a clear fire 
till it thickens. Put in pots, and cover with brandy papers. 

Apricot Preserve. — ^When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them 
as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, 
with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good 
loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them ; in the meantime, 
break the stones and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain 
twelve hours, put it with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into 
a preserving pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear, then take out 
the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small 
pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be 
taken oflf as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. 

CAKES, ETC. 

In making cakes, it is indispensably necessary that all the ingredients 
should be heated before they are mixed: for this purpose every- 



462 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

thing should be prepared an hour before it is wanted, and placed near 
the fire or upon a stove ; the flour thoroughly dried and wanned ; the 
cuirants, sugar, carraway seeds, and anything else required, treated in 
the same way. Butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into 
ketdeSy or pans of warm water, which will give them the requisite degree 
of temperature. Without these precautions, cakes will be heavy, and the 
best materials, with the greatest pains, will &il to produce the desired 
results. The following directions should also be strictly attended to : — 
Cuirants should be nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before a 
fire. Before they are used, a dust of fine flour should be thrown among 
them, and a shake given to them, which causes the cakes to be lighter. 
Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always 
strained. Sugar should be pounded in a mortar, or rubbed to a powder 
on a dean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. 
Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a litde sugar, beaten 
in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine or 
cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. The pans 
should be of earthenware ; nor should eggs, or butter, and sugar be 
beaten in tins, as the coldness of the metd will prevent them firom 
becoming light Use no flour but the best superfine ; for if the flour 
be of inferior quality, the cakes will be heavy, ill-colouted, and unfit to 
eat ; but if a little potato flour be added, it will improve their lightness. 
Cakes are frequently rendered hard, heavy, and uneatable by misplaced 
economy in eggs and butter, or for want of a due seasoning in spices 
and sugar. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be 
thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much 
on their being well incorporated. Unless you are provided with proper 
utensils as well as materials, the difficulty of making cakes will be so 
great as in most instances, to be a failure. Accuracy in proportioning 
the ingredients is almost indispensable ; and therefore scales, weights, 
and measures, down to the smallest quantity, are of the utmost import- 
ance. When yeast is used, a cake should stand for some time to rise 
before it is put into the oven. All stifi' cakes should be beaten with 
the hand ; but pound and similar cakes should be beaten with a whisk 
or spoon. 

Madeira Cake. — ^Whisk 4 fresh eggs until they are as light as possible; 
then, continuing still to whisk them, throw in, by slow degrees, the 
following ingredients in the order in which they are written : — Six oz. of 
dry, poiinded, and sifted sugar ; 6 oz. of floiu:, also dry and sifted ; 4 oz. 
of butter just dissolved, but not heated ; the rind of a fresh lemon ; and 
the instant before the cake is moulded, beat well in the third of a tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake it an hour in a moderate oven. 



' 



CONFECTIONER F, CAKES, AND PRESER VES. 463 

In this, as in all compositions of the same nature, observe particularly 
that each portion of butter must be beaten into the mixture until no 
appearance of it remains before the next is added ; and if this be done^ 
and the preparation be kept light by constant and light whisking, the 
cake will be as good, if not better, than if the. butter were creamed. 
Candied citron can be added if liked. 

Plum Cake, Rich^ with Almond Paste, and Iced, — ^Put the following 
ingredients into a pan (or laige basin) in the order given, then proceed 
as directed : — ^Three-quarters of a lb. of good butter beaten to cream, ^ 
a lb. of richest moist sugar, f of a lb. of cuirants well washed and dried, 
I of a lb. of raisins carefully stoned, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel finely 
chopped, 6 bitter and i oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, 
the grated rind of a lemon and the strained juice, a grain of powdered 
doves, 2 grains of powdered cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg 
grated, 14 oz. of sifted flour, \ a, gill of new milk, the yolks of 6 eggs 
beaten with a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat the whole together till 
well mixed, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to froth ; continue 
to beat rapidly for twenty minutes. Turn the mixture into a large 
cake-tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven about 
two and a half hours. Turn the cake out carefully, and, when cold, ice 
it as follows : — Blanch and pound to a fine paste 12 bitter and 7 oz. of 
sweet ahnonds ; add 10 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a table-spoonful of 
orange-flower water, and the whites of 8 eggs beaten to a froth ; stir 
the mixture till it becomes a soft, smooth paste, then spread it over the 
cake about the sixth of an inch thick ; let it stand in an airy place to dry 
while the icing is being prepared. Found to the finest possible powder 
I lb. of loaf sugar; add the whites of five firesh eggs and the strained 
juice of half a lemon ; stir till it becomes a thick, moist substance. 
When the almond paste is dry, spread the icing over it about a quarter 
of an inch thick, and let the c^e remain until it is quite set The 
cake can be used without the paste and icing if preferred. 

Plain and very Crisp Biscuits. — Take a lb. of flour, the yolk of an 
egg, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till 
quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a 
slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 

Rusks, — ^Beat 7 eggs well, and mix with ^ a pint of new milk, in 
which have been melted 4 oz. of butter ; add to it a ^ of a pint of 
yeast and 3 oz. of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour 
as will make a very light paste, rather like batter, and let it rise before 
the fire half an hour ; then add some more flour to make it a little 
stifier, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small cakes about 
five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice 
them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. 



464 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

These cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea, or with 
carraways, to eat cold. 

liice Cake, — Half a lb. of ground rice, ^ of a lb. of butter, ^ of a lb. 
of white sugar, 3 eggs, rind and juice of half a lemon, or some drops of 
essence of lemon. Beat all well together, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Rich Cakes, — Mix together i lb. of flour, \ a lb. of loaf sugar, and \ 
a lb. of melted butter ; add a ^ of a lb. of currants and a glass of brandy 
or raisin wine. Roll out the paste ; cut the cakes with a small round 
tin, and bake upon a floured tin. 

Rich Fruit Cake, — ^Two lbs. of raisins stoned, 2 lbs. of currants, i lb. 
of citron cut in small pieces, ^ of a lb. of almonds, i lb. of flom:, zo eggs, 
z lb. of brown sugar, | of a lb. of butter, i cup of treacle, i oz. of nut- 
megs, I wine-glass of wine, i wine-glass of brandy. Mode. — Mix the 
butter (to a cream) and sugar together; then beat the eggs and stir 
them in ; add part of the flour, then the treacle. Mix the fruit with 
some of the flour, and add half the fruit with the wine, brandy, and 
nutmeg ; then the rest of the flour and fruit Stir well together, and 
bake for three hours in a slow oven. 

Ma^s Gold Cake (good). — ^Yolks of 8 eggs, i cup of butter, 2 cups of 
sugar, 4 cups of flour, i cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon and vanilla. 

Mag^s Silver Cake (good). — Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 4 
cups of flour, I cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, whites of 8 eggs. Flavour with almond or peach. 

Mag^s Soda Cakes (nice). — ^Two eggs, two cupfuls of flour, i cupful of 
sugar, ^ a cupful of butter, ^ a tea-spoonfid of soda, z tea-spoonfiil 
of cream of tartar, ^ a cupful of milk. Flavour with vanilla or peach. 

Hard Molasses Gingerbread, — Melt z cupful of butter in 2 of molasses 
(treacle) ; pour it hot on z quart of flour. Dissolve z tea-spoonful of 
soda in a litde hot water, and add it with 2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger; 
put in flour to roll. Roll it thin, and bake it quick (cut in rounds). 
These cakes arc very crisp. 

Gingerbread. — Mix with 2 lbs. of flour \ a lb. of treacle, J of an or. 
of carraways, z oz. of ginger finely sifted, and 8 oz. of butter. Roll the 
paste into what form you please ; bake on tins, afler having worked it 
very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange 
candied. It may be added in small bits. 

Shortbread. — Take z lb. of flour, \ a lb. of butter, and 4 oz. of 
powdered loaf sugar ; mix well together without any water ; knead it 
well with your hand ; roll it out thin, and stick pieces of candied peel 
cut thin over the top ; cut it any shape you please, and bake it in a 
slow oven. 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 465 

Lemon Sponge, — One oz. of isinglass in a pint of boiling water ; when 
dissolved, strain it ; add the juice of 2 or 3 lemons, \ a lb. of fine silted 
sugar. Whisk forty minutes, and put in a shape. 

Savoy Biscuits. — Beat up ^ a dozen eggs ; add f of a lb, of finely- 
powdered white sugar, and the same weight of sifted flour ; mix these 
well together. Lay thin paper upon iron plates, and place the batter, 
with a tea-spoon, about four inches long and one broad, keeping each 
separate ; just before putting them into the oven strew powdered sugar 
over them. The paper, which will adhere to the backs of the biscuits, 
is easily removed with cold water and a soft brush. 

Rice Cake. — Beat up 9 eggs, then mix 6 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of 
flour, } of a lb. of white sugar in powder, and ^ an oz. of carraway seed. 
These ingredients may be very well mixedy then placed in a tin, and 
baked in a quick oven. 

Sally Lunn Cake. — Put a pint of boiling milk into a pan, and when it 
has become lukewarm, pour half a tumblerful of yeast upon it ; stir well, 
and add as much flom: as will form a good stiff batter ; cover the pan 
with a cloth, and place it before the fire for two hours. Beat up 4 eggs 
with 2 oz. of powdered sugar. After allowing the time specified, mix a 
^ of a lb. of butter, the eggs and sugar, with the dough ; let all remain 
in the pan for half an hour. Divide into cakes ; put them on tins, and 
bake it in a well-heated oven. 

Cake. — One lb, of dough, -J lb. of butter, 1 lb. of currants, J lb. of 
loaf sugar, 2 oz. of almonds, 3 oz. of raisins, a ^ of a nutmeg, allspice 
and a few cloves, the peel of ^ a lemon, ^ a glass of wine, ^ a glass of 
brandy, 6 eggs — ^beat the yolks and whites separately, ^ of an oz. of 
candied orange and lemon peel. Beat well, and bake in a tin. 

Found' Cake. — ^Beat a lb. of butter to a cream, and mix with it the 
whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the 
fire, a lb. of flom:, a lb. of sifted sugar ; mix them, and a few cloves, a 
little nutmeg, and cinnamon in fine powder together ; then by degrees 
work up all the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well 
beaten, add a glass of wine and some carraways. It must be beaten a 
full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The 
above proportions, leaving out 4 oz. of the butter and the same of sugar, 
make a less luscious, and, to some tastes, a more pleasant one. 

Sponge Cake. — ^Take 4 eggs and put them in the scales; put the 
same weight of loaf sugar in the other ; then take 2 eggs, and have 
their weight in flour; mix well, and put in tins, covered, if possible, 
and bake in a quick oven. You must beat the whites to a very stiff 
froth. 



2 G 



466 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 

Coifs Fed Jelly. — ^Boil 2 feet in 2 quarts and a pint of water, till the 
feet are broken and the water half wasted ; strain it When cold, take 
off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it mto a 
saucepan with sugar, sheny wine, and brandy (raisin wine, if preferred), 
lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peeL (The lemon-juice 
should be carefully strained before added to the other ingredients, or it 
is liable to make the jelly muddy.) When the flavour is rich, put it to 
the whites of 5 eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the 
saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it b^;ins to wann. 
Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it 
through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag into hot water to 
prevent waste, and squeezing it quite diy. Fasten the bag on to a 
stand, or back of a chair, place it near the fire with a basin undemeath 
it, and run the jelly through and through till clear; then put it into 
glasses or moulds. (The moulds should be first soaked in water and 
drained for half a second.) Put it in a cool place to set In summer, 
it is necessary to put the mould in ice ; then when wanted for table, 
dip them in hot water for a minute , wipe the outside ; lay the dish 
on the top of the mould and turn it quickly over, and the jelly should 
slip out easily. 

The following mode will facilitate the clearing of jelly. When the 
mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; 
let it boil five minutes longer; then take the saucepan off the fire, 
covered close, and keep it half an hour ; ailer which it will be so dear 
as to need only once running through the bag, and save much waste. 
The feet need only be scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will 
require greater care in removing the fat; and, of course, allow more 
water; but the jelly will be more nutritious. Cow heels are equally 
good, and more economical than calves' feet. 

Cherry Jelly, — ^July or August— Dissolve \\ oz. of isinglass in a J 
ot a pint of water, to ano&er ^ of a pint add as much powdered 
loaf sugar as will make a good thick syrup ; squeeze the juice out of a 
botdeful of Morella cherries ; add to it a glass of brandy, a glass of 
noyeau, and the juice of a lemon and a half; mix all together; strain 
through a muslin sieve, and pour into a shape, which should be kq>t in 
a very cold place till the jelly is required. 

An excellent Cream, — ^Whip up f of a pint of very Hch cream to a 
strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the 
juice, \ a glass ot sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not 
too sweet ; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, 
and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 467 

the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be 
strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to 
line the edge of the dish. 

Brandy Cream, — Boil 2 dozen of (blanched) almonds and pounded 
bitter almonds in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of 5 
eggs beaten well in a little cream; sweeten, and put to it 2 glasses of the 
best brandy ; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream ; 
set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, 
then pour into cups, or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A 
ratafia drop may be put in each if you choose it If you wish it to keep, 
scald the cream previously. 

Coffee Cream, — Boil a calf's foot in water till it wastes to a pint of 
jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cupful of very strong coffee. 
(Observe that your coffee be firesh.) Clear it with a bit of isinglass to 
be perfecdy bright ; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant ; give one boil up, 
and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stifL 

Currant Jam, Black, Red, or White. — In July. — Let the finit be very 
ripe ; pick it cleai^ firom the stalks, bruise it, and to every lb. put f of 
a lb. of loaf sugar ; stir it well, and boil three-quarters of an hour. 
Gather the firuit on a dry day. Cover with brandy papers. 

Currant JeUy, Black or Red. — In July. — Strip the fiiiit, and in a stone 
jar strew them in a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the hot 
hearth ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a lb. of loaf sugar ; 
put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china vessel till nearly 
dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan ; simmer and skim as neces- 
sary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses, and 
cover with brandy papers. Boil a quarter of an hour. 

Rich Custards, — Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; 
mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten ; when the 
milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it 
into the cream, stirring it well ; then give the custard a simmer till of a 
proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way. 
Flavour with brandy. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart 
of cream to the eggs. 

Damson Cheese, — September or October. — Bake or boil the fruit in a 
stone jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of 
the juice, and to every 2 lbs. of firuit weigh \ a lb. of sugar. Set the 
fruit over a fire in the pan ; let it boil quickly until it begins to look dry ; 
take out the stones and add the sugar; stir it well in, and simmer two 
hours slowly ; then boil it quickly \ an hour, till the sides of the pan 
candy ; pom: the jam then into potting pans or dishes, about an inch 
thicl^ so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is 



468 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

not to be taken out ; but after the first process the fruit is to be pulped 
through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The 
stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the kernels boiled in the 
janL All the juice may be left in and boiled to evaporate, but do not 
add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. 

Fruit Transparency, — Made in June, July, or August. — Press out the 
juice of a quart of red or white currants ; strain it through a fine sieve 
into a brass skillet; add \ an oz. of isinglass, and \ lb. of loaf sugar; 
boil and skim, about twenty minutes, till it is perfecdy bright and rather 
thick ; pour it into a pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit ; if 
white currant juice, either strawberries or white currants ; if red currant 
juice be used, then let the whole fruit be ^ither red currants, red cherries, 
or raspberries. Put it in a cool place, or on ice, till quite firm. Turn 
out carefully, and garnish the dish with Devonshire cream, or strain the 
juice of 2 lemons into \ a pint of thick cream, and whip with a whisk 
to a creamy froth, and serve it round the dish. 

Preserved Gherkins, — ^July to end of August — See that the gherkins 
intended for use be sound and firee from external blemish ; soak them in 
salt and water for two days, then scald them in fresh water, and let them 
remain in it till the next day. Drain them well, and let them boil for 
three minutes in a thin syrup ; put them into a glazed vessel, and on the 
following day boil them for five minutes in a strong S3rrup. For the 
three following days, drain off the syrup, make it boil, and pour it over 
the gherkins. Place brandied paper over the pots in which you have 
put your preserve. 

NB. French beans can be treated in the same manner as above. 

To Preserve Gooseberries, — June or July. — ^Take full-grown goosebeiries 
before they are ripe; pick them, and put them into wide-mouthed botdes; 
cork them gently with new soft corks, and put them in an oven from 
which the bread has been drawn ; let them stand till they have shnmk 
nearly a quarter, then take them out and beat the corks in tight ; cut 
them off level with the bottle, and rosin them down close. Keep them 
in a dry place. 

Grape Jelly. — ^August to March. — Dissolve \ a lb. of loaf sugar and 
i^ oz. of isinglass in ^ a pint of water; add to this | of a pint of the 
strained juice of ripe grapes, a few drops of burnt sugar, and a wine- 
glassful of brandy. Ornament the top of a mould with fine grapes ; 
strain the jelly till bright ; pour it into the mould, and let it remain in a 
cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour. 

Lemon Creams, — Blanch 2 dozen sweet almonds (in boiling water) ; 
chop them, and put them into a jug with i pint of cream ; in another 
jug put in the rind and the strained juice of 2 lemons, 3 glasses of 
sherry, and pounded sugar to sweeten to the taste. Pour rapidly from 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 469 

one jug to the other, till the mixture is well frothed; take out the 
lemon-rind, and pour it into jelly glasses. If wanted less rich, put 
orange or raisins rinsed instead of the sherry, and omit the almonds. 

Lenion Mixture far CJieesecakes or Tarts, — Dissolve i lb. of loaf sugar 
in the strained juice of 3 lemons and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy ; stir 
in ^ a lb. of fresh butter till dissolved, but not oiled ; then add the 
grated rind of the lemons, the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 fresh eggs 
well beaten ; stir rapidly over a gentle fire till of the consistency of 
honey. Put into a jar when cold ; tie it over with thick writing paper, 
and keep it in a cool place. 

Lemon Mixture for Cheesecakes or Tartlets, — ^To a ^ of a lb. of fresh 
butter put a lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out 2 whites, 
the grated rind and juice of 3 lemons ; put all into a nice saucepan, 
and simmer till the sugar dissolves, and it begins to thicken like good 
honey ; put in gallipots. When cold, tie down with brandy papers. 

Medlar Jelly. — Put the medlars (which must be quite ripe) into a pre- 
serving-pan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer till in a 
pulp j then strain through a jelly bag. To every pint of liquor add 
I lb. of loaf sugar ; boil fast, skimming frequently, for an hour. Pour 
the jelly into ornamental earthen moulds or glasses, and the next day 
tie them down. This jelly is served at dessert 

Mincemeat, — Mincemeat is much improved by being well mixed for 
some da3rs before use. Peel, core, and chop fine i lb. of sound apples ; 
wash and pick i^ lbs. of currants ; stone ^ a lb. of raisins, and let both 
these be chopped small. Take away the skin and gristle from i lb. of 
cold roast beef, and carefully pick i lb. of beef suet ; chop these well 
together. Cut into small bits | of a lb. of mixed candied orange, 
citron, and lemon peel ; let all these be well stirred up in a large pan. 
Grind into powder a nutmeg, \ an oz. of ginger, and a ^ of an oz. of 
cloves, the same quantity of allspice and coriander seeds ; add \ an oz. 
of salt, and put these into the pan, mixing thoroughly. Grate the rinds 
of 3 lemons, and squeeze the juice over \ a, lb. of fine Lisbon sugar 
mixed with the lemon peel ; pour over this 2 gills of brandy and ^ a 
pint of sheny. Let these ingredients be stirred for twenty minutes ; 
cover the pan with a slate ; and, when about to use the mincemeat, 
take it from the bottom of the pan. 

Normandy Pippins Stewed, — Put ^ a lb. of Normandy pippins into a 
stewpan and the peel of half a lemon cut thin ; dissolve a ^ of a lb. oi 
loaf sugar in a pint of spring water ; pour this over the fruit ; cover 
down the pan close, and set it on a slow fire for two hours and a hal£ 

Transparent Orange Marmalade, — March or April — Cut the Seville 
oranges into quarters ; take the pulp out and put it in a basin ; pick 
out the seeds and skins \ let the outside soak in water, with a little salt. 



470 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

all night ; then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till quite 
tender; pare and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the 
pulps (but before you put the rind to the pulp after you have sliced 
them, beat them in a mortar). To every lb. of fruit, i^ lbs. of loaf 
sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty minutes. If not quite 
clear, simmer it five or six minutes longer. It must be stiired all 
the time very gendy. When cold, put it into glasses. 

N,B. — ^To 30 oranges put the juice of 3 lemons when boiling the 
marmalade. 

Preserved Oranges, — February or March. — ^Peel 12 oranges, and take 
ofi* as much of the white as possible. Make a syrup of i^ lbs. of loaf 
sugar with \ a pint of water. Take the peel, with the white off, and 
boil it in water till tender; then boil it in the syrup. Cut it in slices 
first 

Paste for Cheesecakes^ Tarts^ and Tartlets. — Rub a ^ of a lb. of fresh 
butter and a tea-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar into \ a lb. of well-dried 
flour; moisten, with the yolk of an egg beaten, with a tea-cupfiil of cold 
water. Knead^to a firm paste; roll out a quarter of an inch thick 
twice, and each time spread over 2 oz. of fresh butter ; fold over, and 
let it stand two hours in a cool place. Roll out twice again, and each 
time dredge over a little dry flour ; rub the tins slightly with butter, and 
line them ^th the paste the sixth of an inch thick. Trim round the 
edge ; fill the centre with jam, or the lemon, etc., mixture ; smooth it 
over with a knife ; ornament with leaves tastefully arranged, or narrow 
strips of paste laid on in cross bars, and bake in a moderate oven from 
fifteen to eighteen minutes. Tarts, about half an hour. (This quan- 
tity will make 2 tarts or 12 tartlets.) Tartlets may be ornamented with 
a small crescent of paste in the centre. 

Stewed Pears, — Septembet to Januaiy. — ^Take large winter pears; 
halve or quarter them (according to the size), leaving the stem in, and 
to about 50 pears put nearly i quart of water, the juice and thin peel of 
4 lemons. To every lb. of pears add } of a lb. ot loaf sugar, a small 
tea-cupfiil of cloves tied in a muslin bag, with third of cochineal Stew 
gendy over a fire until you can easily pass a straw through them ; then 
put a little brandy. Boil up once, and put in jars covered with brandy- 
papers. They will keep two or three years. 

Preserved Pine-Apple, — Cut oft the rind, and divide the pine into 
tolerably thick slices ; boil the rind in ^ a pint of water, with a lb. of 
loaf sugar in powder, and the juice ot a lemon, for twenty minutes. 
Strain this liquor, and boil the slices in it for a quarter of an hour. 
Next day, pour oft the syrup ; boil it, taking care to remove the scum 
as it rises, and pour the liquor quite hot over the fruit. Tie down the 
jar with bladder, having brandied paper over the preserve. 



CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 471 

Plumsy Preserved and Dry. — ^The Magnum Bonum Plum is tbe best for 
this preserve. In season from August to October. — Have large ripe 
plums ; prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, and simmer them 
very gently in a thin syrup, made in the proportion of a ^ of a lb. of 
sugar to each pint of water. Put them in a china bowl, and, when 
cold, pour it over. Let them lie three days ; then make a syrup of 3 
lbs. of sugar to 5 lbs. of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large 
lumps of the sugar dipped quickly and instantly brought out Boil 
the plums in this fresh syrup after draining the first from them. Do 
them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them ; 
put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those 
you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for longer in the pan, 
and boil it quickly ; then give the fruit one warm more ; drain, and 
put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to 
ferment if not boiled in two syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, but will 
have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a 
little sugar to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so 
sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as 
those. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, 
and save much sugar. 

Raspberry Jam, — July and August. — ^Weigh a lb. of fruit to f of a 
lb. of sugar. Put the former into a preserving-pan ; boil and break it ; 
stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is 
wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way, the jam 
is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by 
putting the sugar in at first. 

Raspberry Vin^ar. — ^July or August. — ^To 6 lbs. of fresh fruit, care- 
fully picked, add 4 pints of the best French vinegar ; macerate for four 
days m a glazed earthen pan, stirring frequently, but taking care not 
to crush the seeds. Filter the vinegar from the fruit, and to each pint 
of juice add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Place it in a glazed pan, in a hot 
water bath, and let the juice boil until it is as thick as syrup ; it is 
then fit for bottling when cool. 

Rhubarb Jam, — ^February to May. — ^To each \\ lbs. of rhubarb put 
I lb. of loadf sugar, i oz. of bitter almonds, and about half the juice, 
and the peel of a lemon chopped very fine. Boil it altogether half an 
hour, after it comes to boiling very gently, and keep stirring all the 
time. Cover with brandy-papers. 

Stawberries, Preserved Whole, — Jime and July. — Choose strawberries 
of a fine laige sort, and of a good colour, but not too ripe. To every 
lb. of fruit allow i^ lbs. of good loaf sugar, and i pint of red currant 
juice. Pick off the stalks ; lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle 
over them half the Quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded ; 



472 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed, and 
touch the under side of the fruit, and let iwemain for one day. Then 
have ready the cuirant juice, drawn as for red currant jelly; boil it 
with the remainder of the sugar till it fonns a thin syrup, and in this 
simmer the strawberries and sugar until the whole is sufficiently jellied. 
Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be 
preserved as whole as possible. Strawberries preserved in this manner 
are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. 

Trifle, or Swiss Cream (very good). — Flavour pleasantly with lemon- 
rind and cinnamon a pint of rich cream, after having taken from it as 
much as will mix smoothly to a thin batter, 4 tea-spoonfuls of the finest 
flour ; sweeten it with 6 oz. of well-refined sugar in lumps ; place it over 
a dear fire in a delicately-clean saucepan, and when it boils stir in the 
flour and simmer it for four or five minutes, stirring it gently without 
ceasing. Then pour it out, and, when it is quite cold, mix with it, by 
degrees, the strained juice of two moderate-sized and very fresh lemons. 
Take a ^ lb. of macaroons ; cover the bottom of a glass dish with a 
portion of them ; pour in a part of the cream ; lay the r^ainder of the 
macaroons upon it ; add the rest of the cream, and ornament it with 
candied citron shced thin. The requisite flavour should be given to 
this dish by infusing in the cream the very thin rind of a lemon, and 
part of a Stick of cinnamon slightly bruised, and then straining it 
before the flour is added ; or, these and the sugar may be boiled 
together, with a or 3 spoonhils of water, to a strongly-flavoured syrup, 
which, after having been passed through a muslin strainer, may be 
stirred into the cream. It is very delidous, flavoured with vanilla 
instead of lemon and maraschino. 



HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 

FOR VARIODS MATTERS OF 

FURNITURE, GLASS, PLATE, ETC. 



. ' Ld thy mind's swetliuis Aaat Hi optraiien 

Ufenlhy body, dotha, and habitation.' — Herbert. 

ALL new crockery to be used for cooking purposes, should fiist be 
well greased inside, and then placed in the oven, which effectually 
removes all poisonous taints. 

Cement for Broken China, Glass, etc. — Dissolve \ an oz, of gum 
acacia in a wine-glassful of boiling water ; add plaster of Paris sufhclenl 
to form a thick paste, and apply it with a brush to the broken parts 
Being nearly colourless, it is better than liquid glue, or other cements. 

To clean Brasses belonging to 'Mahogany furniture. — Use scraped 
rotten-Stone, or powdered whiting mixed with sweet oil, and rubbed on 
with a buckskin. 

Clean Brasses, Britannia Metal, Tins, Ci^pers, etc., with a mixture 
of rotten-stone, soft soap, and oil of turpentine mixed to the consistency 
of stiff putty. The rotten-stone should be powdered veiy fine, and 
siiled, and a quantity made to last for a time. The articles should first 
be washed with hot water to remove grease ; then rub the metal with the 
mixture, mixed with a little water ; then rub off briskly with a dry clean 
rag or leather, and a beautiful polish will be obtained. 

Iron Stains may be removed from marble by wetting the spots with 
oil of vitriol, or oxalic acid diluted in spirit of wine, or with lemon-juice, 
and after a quarter of an hour, rubbing them dry with a soft linen cloth. 

Metiicine Stains may be removed from silver spoons by rubbing them 
with a rag dipped in sulphuric acid, and washing it off with soap-suds. 

J^ cleantr^ Coppers, Tins, etc. — Half a lb. of soft soap and a packet 



474 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

of rotten-stone mixed together ; put it in the oven till in a liquid state ; 
then stir in a laige wine^lassful of gin ; keep it in a covered pot for 
use. When used, moisten it with cold water, rub it on with a piece of 
flannel till the tarnish disappears, wipe it off| and polish with a leather 
dipped in rotten-stone or fine whiting. 

For Cleaning Marble. — ^Three oz. of pearl-ash, a cake of whiting, and 
3 pints of water well mixed together, and boiled for lo minutes. Rub 
it well over the marble, and let it remain for twenty-four hours, then rub 
it off. 

To give a gloss lo fine Oak Wainscot. — ^If greasy, it must be w^hed 
with wann beer ; then boU 2 quarts of strong beer, a bit of bee's-wax as 
large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar ; wet it aU over with a 
large brush, and when dry, rub it till bright. 

To take Ink out of Mahogany. — Dilute \ a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol 
with a large spoon^ of water, and touch the part with a feather ; watch 
it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore 
better to rub it quickly, and repeat if not quite removed. 

To take Iron Stains out of Marble.^^hxi equal quantity of fresh spirit 
of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well ; wet 
the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. 

Cleaning Woodwork — ^Where painted wainscot or other woodwork 
requires cleansing, fuller's earth will be found cheap and useful ; and, 
on wood not painted, it forms an excellent substitute for soap. Where 
extreme nicety is required, use a mixture of i lb. of soft soap, 2 oz. of 
pearl-ash, i pint of sand, and i pint of table beer; simmer these sub- 
stances in a pipkin over a slow fire, and let them be well mixed. The 
mode of application is to put a small quantity in flannel, rubbed on the 
wainscot, wash it o£f with warm water, and dry thoroughly with a linen 
doth. 

Treatment of Oil-cloth. — Oil-cloth ought never to be wetted, if it can 
be possibly avoided, but merely to be rubbed with a flannel, and 
polished with a brush of moderate hardness, exactly like a mahogany 
table j and by this simple means the fading of the colours and the 
rotting of the canvas, which are inevitably attendant upon the oU-cloth 
being kept in a state of moisture or dampness, are entirely avoided. 

Papering of Damp Walls, — The following observations, in House- 
hold Words, on this subject are useful. The omnipresent gutta-percha 
is among the paper-hangings already, and presents itself in the form of 
a consolation to the owners of houses which are cursed with a damp 
wall or comer. As for a generally damp house, one has only to quit it, 
if one has ever been foolish enough to go into it But there are many 
excellent houses with some faulty bit — some comer or projection — 
which got wet in building, and never could be got dry ; and here comes 



HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. 475 

in the gutta-percha paper most consolmgly. It confines the damp 
within the wall at least, and compels it to evaporate externally, if at all ; 
— it thoroughly intercepts, if it cannot cure, a great evil, and will no 
doubt be in extensive use, till all men are too sensible to have a damp 
comer in a house. 

To cement Broken China, — Beat lime into the most impalpable 
powder, sift it through fine muslin ; then tie some into a thin muslin ; 
put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some 
lime quickly on the same^ and unite them exacdy. 

Polishing Paste for Tins, etc, — 2d. of hartshorn, 2d. oil of thyme, 2d. 
rotten-stone, 2d. soft soap. Pour a pint of boiling water over the soft 
soap and rotten-stone; and when cold, add the hartshorn and oil of 
thyme. 

To clean the bcuk of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the fronts of Cast- 
iron Stoves, — Boil about a ^ of a lb. of the best black lead, with a pint 
of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut When that is 
melted, dip a painter's brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed oflf 
all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a 
beautiful briskness. Or, 

To clean Cast-Iron, to Black Hearths, — Mix black lead and whites 
of eggs well-beaten together ; dip a painter's brush, and wet all over, 
then rub it bright with a hard brush. 

To take out Mildew. — Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as 
much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay on the part of both sides with 
a painter's brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain 
comes out 

To take the Black off the bright Bars of Polished 5/w«.— Rub them 
well with some of the following mixture on a piece of broad cloth ; when 
the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand- 
paper. The mixture : — Boil slowly i lb. of soft soap in 2 quarts of 
water, to one. Of this jelly take 3 or 4 spoonfuls, and mix to a con- 
sistence with emery. No. 3. 

To remove Fruit or Vinegar Stains from Knives. — Rub the blades 
before cleaning with raw potato. 

Washifjg, its labour diminished greatly (invaluable). — Pour upon \ a 
lb. of soda 2 quarts of water in an earthenware pan ; take \ a lb. of 
soap, shred fine ; put it into a saucepan with 2 quarts of cold water ; 
stand it on a fire till it boils ; and when perfectly dissolved and boiling, 
add to it the former. Mix it well, and let it stand till cold, when it has 
the appearance of a strong jelly. Let the linen be soaked in water, the 
seams and any other dirty part rubbed in the usual way, and remain till 
the following morning. Get your copper ready, and add to the water 
about a pint basin full of the above preparation ; when lukewarm put in 



476 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

your linen, and allow it to boil twenty minutes. Rinse it in the usual 
way. This will be all that is necessary to get it clean, and keep it a 
good colour. 

To kill Codtroackes or Black Bedks, — A tea-cupful of well-bniised 
plaster of Paris, mixed with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which 
add a little sugar (this latter is not essential) ; then strew it on the floor 
or in the chinks where they frequent 

Faint. — To get rid of the smell of oil paint, plunge a handful of hay 
into a pail full of water, and let it stand in the room newly painted 

Th dean Gilt Frames, — When the gilt frames of pictures or looking- 
glasses, or the gilt mouldings of rooms, have got specks of dirt upon 
them, from flies or other causes, they can be cleaned with the white of 
egg gently rubbed on with a camel's hair pencil 

To purify Water. — It is not generally known that pounded alum 
possesses the property of purifying water, A table-spoonful of pulverized 
alum sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water to be stirred at the 
time) will, after the lapse of a few hours, by precipitating to the bottom 
the impure particles, so purify it that it will be found to possess neaily 
the freshness and clearness of the finest spring water. A pailful con- 
taining 4 gallons may be purified by a single tea-spoonful. 

To remove Fly Spots.— Di^ a camel's hair brush into spirits of wine, 
and apply it to remove fly spots. 



HINTS ON TRAVELLING. 



' Plr^rinataml charm our semes luilh sutk unspfakable and sweet varidy, that mme 
cOHni him un&affy who never trataUid-'a kind p/priiimer; and pity his cast that from 
hit cradU to hit old agr, he beholds the same still, stUl—stUi the same, the same.'— 

BUKTON. 

TRAVELLING may be said to be a state of great pleasure, mixed 
with great annoyance; but by management the fonner may be 
much increased, and the latter proportionally diminished. In whatever 
way you travel, I particularly recommend you to guard against the 
cravings of hunger, both for your health's sake, and in order the better 
to preserve placidity of temper, which, with every precaution, is exposed 
to frequent disturbance. When your mind is ruffled, you can neither 
see with pleasure nor profit, and the natives are pretty sure to revenge 
themselves for your ill-humour by imposing upon you. On setting out 
on the last long joumey I made, which was in a private carriage with 
one companion, I bought a small basket, and caused it to be filled with 
cold provisions, bread, and fruit, and I kept it constantly replenished 
during ten months, whenever we were upon the road, to which circum- 
stance I mainly attribute the fact that we never had the shadow of a 
disagreement or an uncomfort There is nothing like a basket of this 
sort for diminishing the dreadfiil tediousness of uncertain distances at 
the end of a long day, and it is a great consolation in case of accidental 
stoppages. In aid of it, I purchased two clasp-knives, and forks at- 
tached, a couple of tumblers, and a snuff-box, with an almanac on the 
lid, by way of salt-cellar. A quarto French dictionary served for a 
table, and so equipped we almost defied fortune. At the inns where 
we slept, I always made special mention of the basket over-night, and 
the consequence was it was frequently specially filled, particularly with 
excellent game, which, with bread and grapes, or figs, we found ex- 
tremely palatable and wholesome. Where the wine was good, we 
generally carried off a bottle or twoj but wine, and indeed any liquid. 



478 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

ought to be sparingly used on such occasions^ and an hour or two after 
eating: otherwise the motion of the carriage prevents digestion, and 
induces feverishness. The fruit, taken by way of vegetables, supplies 
in a great measure the place of liquids. The proper and most agree- 
able mode of refreshing is in small quantities, and frequently ; and the 
only thing to be guarded against is, to leave sufficient appetite for the 
meak you intend to take where you stop, and this sometimes requires 
a little judgment and resolution. Some people have a habit, and rather 
make a boast of it, of travelling long distances without taking anjrthing; 
but I strongly recommend the basket system, having tried both plans. 
In public conveyances, I think a sandwich-box might be convenient 

One of the greatest annoyances in travelling is continual exposure to 
imposition ; but this may, by good management, be frequently avoided, 
either altogether or in part, as by bad management it may be gready 
increased. There are four kinds of imposers. The first are downright 
rogues, who make a point of taking the advantage whenever they have 
the power ; but even they have degrees of extortion according to the 
behaviour of their victims. The second are a sort of good-tempered, 
easy imposers, who impose as a matter of course, but whom a little 
good management almost inunediately turns from their purpose. They 
are willing to impose upon you if you are willing to be imposed upon, 
but otherwise not On remonstrance, they will pretend they have made 
a mistake, or that if you are not satisfied, they do not wish to have any 
dispute. The third will not attempt any imposition unless they are 
encouraged to it by some foolish display or swagger ; nor the fouitb, 
until they are provoked by unreasonableness or discourtesy. My ohser- 
vation tells me there is no preventive against these different kinds of im- 
position so sure as a certain quiet, composed bearing, indicative at once 
of self-respect and of consideration for others. I have made many ex- 
periments in the matter under various circumstances, both in this country 
and abroad, and the result seems to me to be, that by such behaviour 
you ensure greater attention at a lower cost than by any other course; 
and, having adopted such a course, I think that on the Continent 
you may still be exposed, when actually travelling, to imposition to 
the extent of about ten per cent upon your expenditure, to which, 
for comforf s sake, and to avoid the chance of being wrong, which 
fi%quently happens in small matters, it is wise to submit, without 
keeping yourself in a constant fever and state of distraction bovx the 
objects only worthy of attention. I am speaking now of those who 
have no, or but little experience ; others will be able to protect them- 
selves to a greater extent 

One of the most desirable qualities in travelling, is punctuality or 
readiness. Without it there is but small satis&ction, either to yourself 



HINTS ON TEA YELLING. 479 



or those with you. In all my journeys I was always ready in time, but 
often with a good deal of bustling and hurry, till one morning in Swit- 
zerland I looked out of my window as I was dressing, and saw a gentle- 
man, who had just joined the party, pacing backwards and forwards 
before the inn with a degree of composure which made me determine 
to imitate what he told me was his constant rule, to be ready at least a 
quarter of an hour before the time. I adopted the practice thencefor- 
waid, and found the greatest advantage from it One of the benefits of 
habitual punctuality is the confidence it inspires. The uncertainty of 
unpunctuality is a continual drawback to enjoyment ; it hangs over one 
like a cloud 

The quickest mode of acquiring a good idea of any place is to take 
the earliest opportunity of ascending some tower or eminence, from 
which there is a commanding view, with some person who can point out 
the most remarkable objects. If this is followed up by wandering about 
without a guide, and trusting solely to your own observation, you will 
be as well acquainted with the localities in a few hours as the generality 
of travellers would be in a week, or perhaps better, because your im- 
pressions would be stronger. I do not mean by this to supersede 
the employment of guides in sightseeing, for they are very usefiil in 
saving time. The first day I arrived at Rome I met a classical friend 
who had been there some time, and who had made himself completely 
master of the place. He took me to the top of the tower in the Capitol, 
and pointed out everything remarkable, so that from the very beginning 
I acquired a sort of familiar acquaintance with the city and its environs, 
and was never at a loss afterwards. As soon as you have seen all you 
wish to see in any place, and do not mean to make it a residence, it is 
advisable without delay to proceed on your journey. Many people 
lose a great deal of time in loitering, and to no purpose whatever, 
because it is impossible under such circumstances to setde to anything. 

Wherever you are, it is good to fall into the customs and habits of 
the place ; for though sometimes they may be a little inconvenient, it 
is generally much more so to run counter to them. Those who will 
have their own way, never succeed but at a much greater cost than 
success is worth. 




DRESS, 



AND VARIOUS OTHER HINTS CONNECTED WITH 
THE TOILET. 



' Know, tht that in ker dreii rrvrals 
Afim and modcit taste, dafiayi 
Mare Imdinat tAatt she ten^eaJr. ' — Patuore. 

DRESS indicates mind ; and a favourable or unfavourable impres- 
sion is made according to the appearance presented by every 
lady. Rightly considered, it is a study, and well worthy of being so, 
if not earned to excess. Women by nature are beautifiil aJid graceful ; 
and there is no reason why they should disfigure themselves by extremes 
in any mode that may prevail ; and yet there is every good reason why 
a lady should be up in all that pertains to the toilet, and not to be 
behind in that peculiar finish and tone so characteristic of the refined 
woman. To this end her dress must be easy ; there must be no 
restraint Anything that constrains and hinders the intensely natural 
gracefulness of woman is in bad taste. This is as true in regard to the 
clothing of the body as it is to the education of the mind. life, health, 
reason, and convenience ought to be the first consideration. Graceful- 
ness cannot exist without ease ; delicacy is not debility ; and a sound 
taste in dress is the fair and beautiful right of wontan. 

Chapped Hands. — Mix a ^ of a lb. of unsalted hog's lard which has 
been washed in common, and then rose water, widi the yolks of a ne«'- 
Imd eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal 
or almond paste as will work into a paste. 

Chapped Lips. — Put a ^ of an oz. of borax, benjamin, and sperma- 
ceti, ad, worth of aikanet root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of 
black grapes bruised, a ^ of a lb. of unsalted butter, and a oz. of bee's- 
480 



HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 481 

wax, into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, etc, are 
dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it 
again, and pour it into small pots or boxes ; or if to make cakes, use 
the bottoms of tea-cups. 

All Flannels should be soaked before they are made up, first in cold, 
then in hot water, in order to shrink them. 

Washing, — Flannel should always be washed with white soap, and in 
warm, but not boiling water. 

Patent Leather Boots require to be wiped with a wet sponge, and 
afterwards with a soft dry cloth, and occasionally with a soft cloth and 
sweet oil, blacking and polishing the edge of the soles in the usual way, 
but so as not to cover the patent polish with blacking. A little milk 
may also be used with very good effect for patent leather boots. 

Pinching Shoes and Boots do much mischief. That they produce 
tormenting and crippling corns, all know. But this is not all, nor even 
the worst. They check the circulation of the pedal blood, make the 
feet cold, and sometimes aid in chilblaining them ; diminish the size 
of the muscles of the part, and take from their strength and impede 
their action by compressing them. Cramping and torturing the feet by 
pressure produces, sympathetically, dyspepsia and headache; and some- 
times troublesome affections of the lungs. Haemorrhage from the 
nostrils and lungs, and even apoplexy and pulmonary consumption 
are occasionally excited by it 

To Polish BootSy Slippers, etc,^ of Enamelled Leather. — ^Make lukewarm, 
and then well mix together the following ingredients : — One quart of 
the best cream and i pint of linseed oil ; clean the shoe, etc., free from 
dirt, and rub it over with a sponge dipped in the mixture ; then rub it 
with a soft dry cloth till a brilliant polish is produced. 

Corsets and Stays, — Of all wicked fashions, that of wearing tight 

corsets is the most wicked. They not only interfere with the free 

motions of the muscles, but they entirely alter the shape of the body as 

it is designed by nature; squeeze the important organs contained in 

that part, so as to impede their healthy action ; and entail misery and 

disease upon the unfortunate victim of fashion. Did it end here, the 

punishment would be given to the party committing the wrong ; but it 

it is a well-known fact that the offspring suffers, and it has been 

remarked that they are as feeble in mind as they are in body. 

Great men are not the offspring of tight-laced mothers. Even 

beauty of countenance is impaired, and in time destroyed, by tight 

corsets. Those instruments of mischief wither in the complexion 

the freshness of health, and substitute for it the sallowness of disease : 

on the spot where the rose and the ruby had shed their lustre, they 

pour bile and sprinkle ashes. They do still more; they dapple the 

2 H 



482 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



cheek with unsightly blotches, convert its fine cuticle into a motley 
scur^ blear the eyes, discolour the teeth and destroy them by caries, 
and tip the nose with cranberry red That effects of this descrip* 
tion often result from gastric and hepatic derangement, every practi- 
tioner of medicine knows, and it is a well-ascertained ^t that such 
derangement is produced by corsets. But tight stays make still more 
fatal havoc of female beauty, by imprinting on the countenance marks 
of the decay of mental beauty — ^I mean deep and indelible lines ot 
peevishness, fretfulness, and ill-temper, the bitter result of impaired 
health. Woman bears fevers, consumption, fractures, wounds, and other 
forms ot injury, with a patience and mildness which, if they do not 
improve her personal beauty, increase her loveliness, and add tenfold 
to the sympathy and sorrow felt for her suffering ; but dyspeptic affec- 
tions, when brought on by wearing corsets, are submitted to in a very 
different spirit, and no complaints pour into the temper such acerbity 
and bitterness as those of the digestive organs. I should rejoice indeed 
if what I have here said may have the effect of destroying the abomi- 
nable practice which destroys health, peace, and loveliness. 

Furs^ Feathers^ and Woollens not in constant use should be wrapped 
up in linen washed in lye. From May to September they are subject 
to being made the depository of the moth-eggs. They should be looked 
too, and shaken and beaten, from time to time, in case some of the eggs 
should have been lodged in them, in spite of every precaution ; laying 
them up again, or rather folding them up as before, wrapping them in 
brown paper, which is itself a preservative. 

Furs preserved from Moths, — Place pieces of camphor, cedar-wood, 
Russia leather, tobacco-leaves, bog-myrtle, or anything else strongly 
aromatic, in the drawers or boxes where furs or other things to be pre- 
served from moths are kept, sewn up in linen bags. 

To clean Kid Gloves, — To dean kid gloves, have ready a little new 
milk in one saucer and a piece of brown soap in another, and a dean 
doth or towel, folded three or four times. On the doth spread out the 
glove smooth and neat Take a piece of flannel, dip it in the milk, then 
rub off a good quantity of soap to the wetted flannel, and commence to 
rub the glove towards the fingers, holding it firmly with the lefl hand. 
Continue this process until the glove, if white, looks of a dingy yellow, 
though clean j if coloured, till it looks dark and spoiled Lay it to 
dry, and the operator will soon be gratified to see the old glove looks 
nearly new. It will be soft, glossy, smooth, and elastic 

To clean White Ostrich Feathers, — Four oz. of white soap, cut small, 
dissolved in 2 quarts of water, rather hot, in a large basin ; make the 
solution into a lather, by beating it with birch rods or wires. Introduce 
the feathers, and rub well with the hands for five or six minutes. After 



HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET 483 

this soaping, wash in clean water, as hot as the hand can bear. Shake 
until dry. 

Grazse-spois from cotton or woollen materials of fast colours. Absorbent 
pastes, purified bullock's-blood, and even conunon soap, are used, 
applied to the spot when dry. When the colours are not fast, use 
fuller's earth or pulverized potter's day, laid in a layer over the spot, 
and press it with a very hot iron. 

Grease from silks, moires, and plain or brocaded satins. Begin by 
pouring over the spot two drops of rectified spirits of wine ; cover it 
over with a linen cloth, and press it with a hot iron, changing the linen 
instantly. The spot will look tarnished, for a portion of the grease still 
remains; this will be removed entirely by a little sulphuric ether 
dropped on the spot, and a very little rubbing. If neatly done, no 
perceptible mark or circle will remain ; nor will the lustre of the richest 
silk be changed, the union of the two liquids operating with no injurious 
effects from rubbing. 



HAIR, ETC. 
*Soft hair, on which light drops a diadem,* — Massey. 

Bandoline, for beautifying the Hair, — Soak starch, or Irish moss 
(whichever you please), in rose-water until dissolved and smooth. If 
you wish it to be pink, colour it with a little pounded cochineal. 

To clean Hair Brushes and Combs. — Dissolve a piece of soda in some 
hot water, allowing a piece the size of a walnut to a quart of water. 
Put the water into a basin, and, after combing out the hair from the 
brushes, dip them, brisdes downwards, into the water and out again, 
keeping the backs and handles as free from the water as possible. 
Repeat this until the bristles look clean ; then rinse the brushes in a 
little cold water ; shake them well, and wipe the handles and backs with 
a towel, but not the bristles, and set the brushes to dry in the sun, or 
near the fire ; but take care not to put them too close to it. Wiping 
the bristles of a brush makes them soft, as does also the use of 
soap. 

Combs, — If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water oflen 
makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshell or horn of which they are 
made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured purposely for cleaning 
combs,, may be purchased at a trifling cost : with this the comb should 
be well brushed, and afterwards wiped with a doth or towel 

Hair Lotion, to prevent the Hair from falling off. — ^Eau-de-Cologne, a 
oz. ; tincture of cantharides, 2 drachms ; oil of lavender, or rosemary, of 
either, 10 drops. This application must be used once or twice a day 



484 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE tO KNOW. 

for some tiine ; but if the scalp becomes sore, use it less frequently, or 
discontinue it for a time. 

An excellent Water to prevent Hair front falling off^ and to thicken it. — 
Put 4 lbs. of unadulterated honey into a still, with 12 handfub of the 
tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool 
and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it 
begins to taste sour. 

To prevent the Hair from falling ojf^ sponge the head lightly every 
day with cold tea. 

For the Growth of Hair, — Simmer 4d. of rosemary till of a dark green 
colour; then to each quart of the liquid add \ a pint of rum. If the 
hair is inclined to dryness, mix castor oil with the rum before putting 
it with the rosemary. Bottle it ready for use. Some add a little of the 
oil of cantharides. 

Oil of Roses for the Hair, — Otto of roses, i drachm ; oil of rosemary, 
I drachm ; olive oil, i quart, mixed together. It may be coloured red 
by steeping a little alkanet root in the oil (with heat) before scenting it 

Castor Oil PomcLdefor the Hair, — Pour a quart of boiling water over 
\ a lb. of fresh lard ; stir it that it may be well melted. When cold, 
take it off the water, squeeze it dry, and beat it to a soft cream with a 
wooden fork; then add by degrees i^ oz. of fresh castor oil and 25 
drops of essential oil of beigamot, or any other perfume ; beat it till it is 
like a thick cream. Put it into covered toilet jars. 

Marrow Ponuide for the Hair, — One quarter of a lb. of marrow, 4 
oz. of lard, 6 oz. of castor oil, 6 oz. of salad oil, id. of palm oil Scent 
the whole with essential oil of bergamot, or almonds, etc Melt the lard 
and palm oil together, then strain it, and strain the marrow. Mix all 
well together until nearly cold, and put in pots. 

A good Wash for cleaning and promoting the Growth of Hair, — ^Take 
of distilled vinegar, 2 oz. ; salt of tartar, 2 drachms ; spirit of lavender, 
\ an oz. ; spirit of rosemary, i oz. ; spirit of nutmegs, -^ an oz. ; essence 
of essential oil of almonds, i drachm ; essence of violets, i diachm ; 
pure spring water, 20 oz. Mix and bottle for use. This is not only 
the best wash for cleaning, strengthening, and promoting the growth of 
the hair, but is a cool and refreshing perfume. 

For Whitening the Hands, — Take a wine-glassful of eau-de-Cologne, 
and another of lemon-juice; then scrape 2 cakes of brown Witidsor 
soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, it will be an 
excellent soap for whitening the hands. 

Ironmould in Imen or calico may be removed by dipping it immedi- 
ately in cold water. 

To whiten Lcue, — Lace may be restored to the original whiteness by 
first ironing it slightly, and then folding it and sewing it into a dean 



HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 485 

linen bag, which is placed for 24 hours in pure olive oil. Afterwards the 
bag is boiled in a solution of soap and water for fifteen minutes, then 
well rinsed in lukewarm water, and finally dipped in water containing a 
slight proportion of starch. The lace is then taken from the bag, and 
stretched on pins to dry. 

Mildew in Linen, — Rub the linen well with soap ; then scrape some 
fine chalk, and rub it well on the linen. Lay it on the grass. As it 
dries, wet it a little ; the mildew will generally disappear with a second 
application. 

To revive old Crape (mourning). — Place a little water in a tea-kettle, 
and let it boil till there is plenty of steam from the spout ; then, hold- 
ing the crape in both hands, pass it to and fro several times through 
the steam. 

Stains are removed from mourning dresses^ such as bombazines, cloth, 
crape, etc, by rubbing them with a sponge dipped in a mixture com- 
posed of a handful ot fig-leaves, boiled in 2 quarts of water till reduced 
to a pint 

To remove Faint from Silk Cloth, — If the fabric will bear it, sharp 
rubbing will frequently entirely discharge a newly-made paint-stain ; but, 
if this is not successful, apply spirit of turpentine with a quill till the 
stains disappear. 

PERFUMES. 

* Perfumed as {/Arabian ivindi scattered their spices loosely on the face of some rich 

earth fruitful with aromatics.* — NoBBS. 

Eau-de-Cologne. — Half a pint of spirits of wine, 15 drops of the 
oil of orange flowers, and a few drops of the essence of lavender and 
bergamot 

A French Ferfume. — Mix together the fresh petals of roses, jessamine 
pinks, or clove-carnation, and violets. Take an upright glass jar, such 
as is used by confectioners to display sweets in their windows ; at the 
bottom of the jar put a layer of mixed petals, then a thin layer of 
pounded lump sugar, then another layer of petals, and so on till the 
jar is full, pressing all down tight Cover the jar close, and set in the 
sun for a week. Then empty its contents into a woollen cloth, squeeze 
out the liquid by means of a press, and bottle it in phials for use, 
corking them tightly. 

Lavender Water (good). — Oil of lavender, \ an oz. ; essence of musk, 
\ an oz. ; ambergris, \ an oz. ; essence of bergamot, 40 drops ; recti- 
fied spirits of wine, \ a pint 

Note. — Quarter of an oz. is just 2 drachms and 25 dropsL 



486 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Perfume far the Drawers and Linen, — ^Half a lb. of lavender flowers, 
free from stalk ; dried thyme and mint, of each ^ an oz. ; ground 
cloves and carraways, of each a ^ of an oz. ; common salt dried, i oz. 
To be well mixed together and put into cambric or silk bags. 

A Perfume^ also a Preventive against Moths, — Let the following ingre- 
dients be ground together to powder and put in bags among your 
clothes : i oz. of tonquin beans ; i oz. of carraway seeds ; i oz. of cloves, 
mace, nutmeg, cinnamon ; and add as much Florentine orris root as 
will equal the other ingredients put together. 

Perfume of Roses, — ^Take the petals of the common rose {cenHfoUa) ', 
place them, without pressing them, in a bottle ; pour some good spirits 
of wine upon them ; close tiie bottle, and let it stand until it is required 
for use. This will keep for years, and yield a perfume little inferior to 
otto of roses ; a few drops will sufHce to impregnate the atmosphere of 
a room with a delicious odour. Common vinegar is greatly improved 
by a very small quantity being added to it 

To Remove Freckles. — Dissolve i oz. of Venice soap in |^ an oz. of 
lemon-juice, and add a ^ of an oz. each of oil of bitter almonds and 
deliquated oil ot tartar. Place this mixture in the sun till it is of the 
consistency of ointment ; then add 3 drops of the oil of rhodium, and 
keep it for use. Apply it to the hands and face in the following 
manner : — ^Wash the parts at night with elder-flower water, or Rowland's 
kalydor, then anoint with the ointment In the morning, cleanse the 
skin from its oily adhesion by washing it copiously in rose-water. 

For Cleanif^ Silks. — ^Four oz. of honey ; 6 oz. of soft soap ; i pint 
of whisky or gin. To be well mixed together, and rubbed on the silk 
with a soft brush on both sides ; afterwards to be rinsed through a tub 
of soft water, and then through hard water. Dry it on a horse, and iron 
it with a tolerably hot iron. 

To Clean Flowered Silks and White Satin. — Mix sifted stale bread- 
crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over the article ; 
then shake it well, and dust it with dean soft cloths. Afterwards, 
where there are any gold or silver flowers, take a piece of crimson in- 
grain velvet, rub the flowers with it, which will restore them to their 
original lustre. 

When the colour has been taken from silk by adds, it may be re> 
stored by applying a little hartshorn, or sal-volatile, to the spot It may 
be dropped upon any garment without doing harm. 

Powder for the Skin. — One oz. of pounded camphor, and ^ a lb. of 
the best starch finely poimded. While pounding, add 2 drachms of 
spirit of wine, 2 drachms of oxide of zinc, and 8 drops of otto of 
roses. Mix all well together. 

Anotlier Preparation. — Mix some flower of sulphur in a little milk, 



HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 487 

— » 

let it stand an hour or two ; then rub the milk (without disturbing the 
sulphur) intd the skin. It will keep it sofl^ and make the complexion 
clear. A wine-glassful at a time is sufficient. It should be prepared 
over-night, and never used if the milk has become sour. 

A very good Honey Soap for the Skin. — Cut 2 lbs. of yellow soap very 
thin; put it into a double saucepan, stirring it occasionally till it is 
melted, which will be in a few minutes if the water is kept boiling 
around it ; then add a \ lb. of honey, \ lb. of palm oil, and 3d. of real 
oil of cinnamon ; boil all together for six or eight minutes, then pour 
out and let it stand till the next day, when it will be fit for use. 

For Preserving and Beautifying the Teeth, — Dissolve 2 oz. of borax in 
three pints of water; before quite cold, i table-spoonful of spirits of 
camphor, and i tea-spoonful of tincture of myrrh, and put it into 
bottles ready for use. One wine-glassful ot this preparation added to J 
a pint of tepid water is sufficient for each application. 

Camphor Tooth Powder. — Prepared chalk, i lb. ; camphor, i or 2 
drachms. The camphor must be finely powdered by moistening it with 
a litde spirit of wine, and then mixing it thoroughly with the chalk. 

Quinine Tooth Powder, — Sulphate of quinine, 6 grains ; precipitated 
chalk, 12 drachms; rose pink, 2 drachms; carbonate of magnesia, i 
drachm. Mix all well together. 

Hair Wash. — For cleansing and promoting the growth of the hair. 
Oil of sweet almonds, i oz. ; otto of roses, 2 drops ; carbonate of 
ammonia, 20 grains ; rosemary water, \ pint ; tincture of cantharides, 2 
drachms ; spirit of red lavender, 10 drops. Mix as follows : — Drop 
the otto of roses into the oil of sweet almonds ; dissolve the carbonate 
of ammonia in the rosemary water ; add to it the first named articles ; 
shake well the bottle ; ai\d lasdy put in the tincture of cantharides and 
red lavender. A little of the above should be well rubbed into the 
roots of the hair every morning. 

To fasten the Teeth, — Put powdered alum (the quantity of a nutmeg) 
in a quart of spring water for twenty-four hours ; then strain the water, 
and gargle with it 

To Clean the Teeth, — Rub your brush on the soap you use, and lather 
your teeth welL 



RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, 



SLIGHT PHYSICAL DERANGEMENTS. 



' Coed hotisrwi/e provida tri a skknat do lOmt, 
0/ tundry good lAiiigs in her kouii la have ieme,'' — ThoS. TuSSER. 
'A imail disiau ■which ii ynougk durablt. 
At tht beginning for lacke 0/ mrdccine. 
At longe conlinuauna btcommith incuraile. 
The fiaytufidl paeieni bringing unio ruint: 
Tktrefor who viill io his oivn health encline. 
And soani be healed ef ill ■aiilhaul all lary. 
To Ihefhysitian ought not to be coitfrary.'—BjkRCUkV, 157Q. 

REGARDING the ' ills that life is heir to,' we must submit with as 
good humour as may be ; good temper is of itself a medicine ; 
but still I hold the doctrine of alleviation and cure to be very good I 
have therefore selected, with some valuable assistance, a few simple 
remedies for use when required, and should advise that the ingredients 
and other matters hereinafter mentioned be kept in the store-room, and 
a small chest for the dmgs, tincmres, etc. I do not, however, advocate 
being your own doctor. Your common sense will tell you when i^ is 
required, and then by all means have him, and let him be one well 
accredited, and possessed of a lady's hand, an eagle's eye, and a lion's 
heart, if possible ; and if he be a God-fearing man, so much the better, 
for every man who is guided by a loving submission to the known laws 
of God, is a superior creature, and the true man to enter your house, 
and to minister to your complaints. 

Mediant Chest. — Every bouse should contain suitable medicines to 
administer in cases of sudden illness, accidents, colds, or slight ail- 
ments. To those who have not a medicine chest, the following list 



RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS,. ETC. 



489 



may be useful. They should be kept in a cupboard or box, easy 
of access : — 



Prepared chalk. 

Oil of peppermint. 

Laudanum. 

Opiate and aromatic confections. 

Tincture of rhubarb. 

Dr. CoUis Brown's chlorodyne. 

Dr. Gregor/s powder. 

Turkish rhubarb. 

Calcined magnesia. 

Epsom salts — Senna. 

Flour of sulphur. 

Cream of tartar. 

Cold-drawn castor oiL 

Antibilious pills. 

Seidlitz powders. 

Carbonate of soda. 

Carbonate of potass. 

Sal-volatile. 

Camphor julep. 

Sweet spirit ot nitre. 

Essence of ginger. 

Bitters. 

Dr. Davis' Calorific and shield. 



Friar's balsam. 

Opium plaster. 

Eye lotion {see receipt). 

Camomile flowers. 

Liquid blisters, and a camel's-hair 
brush. 

Spermaceti ointment. 

Cold cream. 

Glycerine and rose-water. 

Adhesive plaster. 

Court plaster. 

Caustic — Iodine. 

Compound camphor liniment. 

Olive oil. 

Tincture of Arnica, tincture of Cal- 
endula. 

Condy's Toilet and Disinfecting 
Fluids — Directions for use on the 
bottles. 

Bandages, lint, linen rag, medicated 
cotton, oil silk, spongio piline, 
scissors, ivory knife, syringes, etc. 



Health. — ^A morning bath and daily exercise are proved to be pro- 
moters of health. When a bath cannot be obtained, a good substitute 
is to rub the body with wet towels, and then with dry coarse ones, till 
the skin glows. A glass of cold water drunk immediately alter the bath 
will be found beneficial. 

Bathing, — Hot or cold baths should not be taken till three hours, or 
longer, after a meal. 

Mustard Plaster. — Mix the mustard with cold water, and knead it 
to the consistency ot putty. Spread it, the eighth of an inch thick, upon 
brown paper ; warm it before the fire, and apply to the part affected. 
This plaster will be found more effectual than when made with hot 
water. If the skin is very sensitive, brush the surface of the plaster 
over slightly with salad oil. 

Camphor Julep. — Put an oz. of camphor into a quart bottle, fill it 
with cold boiled water, cork it closely, and let it remain twenty-four 
hours ; then strain, and keep it for use. A wine-glassful is a dose. 

Fainting. — If fainting be caused by an over-heated room or excite- 
ment, administer quickly a wine-glassful of camphor julep with a tea- 
spoonfiil of sal-volatile in it, and let the patient recline on the back. If 
from debility, a large glass of sherry, and a reclining position. If from 



490 THINGS A- LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

disease of the heait, half a tumbler of rather strong brandy and water 
cold, and an upright sitting position. 

For Spots, Pimples, etc, on the Face (INVALUABLE).— One oz. of 
aqttafortis^ i oz. quicksilver ; put these into an earthen vessel; i oz. hard 
soap to mix readily ^ i oz. prepared chalk, i lb. lard, ^ tcUfie-spoonJul of 
spirit of turpentine; aquafortis, quicksilver, and hard soap dissolve 
together; prepared chalk mixed with lard (incorporated). The above, by 
putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into an earthen vessel, and when 
done ejffervescing, mix with the other ingredients, putting the chcUk in last, 
and spirit of turpentine tinted with carmine. 

Cure for Neuralgia. — Five grains of citrate ot quinine and iron, 
dissolved in a small wine-glass of water for a dose ; to be repeated three 
times a day during the attacks. 

Lotion for Chilblains (not broken). — ^Take a tea- spoonful of common 
alum and the same quantity oi purified white copperas, dissolve them 
in half a pint of white wine vinegar, and add a wineglass of gin. 
Apply the lotion with a camel's hair brush or feather, and allow to 
dry without wiping. 

Gout. — ^Take of acetic extract of colchicum, i grain; compound 
powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains j compound colocynth pill, 4 grains. 
Make two pills — to be taken at bed-time. Send six. Take of compound 
tincture of senna and peppermint water, of each i^ oz. ; mix and make 
a mixture. Take a third part early in the morning after the pills. 

Ringworm. — Ointment of nitrate of mercury, i part ; clarified hog's 
lard, 3 parts : to be mixed thoroughly, and applied in small quantity 
night and morning. 

The above ointment, more or less diluted with clarified hog's lard, is 
an excellent application for the cure of many skin affections. 

Toothache. — One drop of pure liquid carbolic acid upon a pOlet of 
cotton wool, placed carefully in the caries of the teeth, will be found of 
great value both in allaying pain and arresting decay. When free from 
pain and sensitiveness, the tooth may be stopped either by a dentist, or, 
if the caries be too large, a temporary stopping of gutta-percha. The 
last-named may be found highly useful, and can be readily applied 
by one's own self as follows : — Take a piece of either white or brown 
gutta-percha of the required size ; immerse it in warm water, and when 
quite plastic, fill the tooth, and trim off before the filling hardens. The 
gutta-percha indicated may be obtained at any chemist's. 

Carminative Mixture for Infants. — Turkey rhubarb, 8 grains ; mag- 
nesia, 16 grains; laudanum, 2 drops; syrup, a table-spoonful; dill 
water, three table-spoonfiils. 

The above ingredients to be put into a bottle, and shaken before use. 
Dose : a tea-spoonful once, twice, or thrice daily, or during the night ; 



RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. 491 

two tea-spoonfuls when restless or flatulent. / can most confidently 
commend the above to mothers for infants up to a year old. Any chemist 
can prepare it in a few minutes. 

Diarrhoea Mixture, — Diluted nitric acid, 5 drops ; diluted sulphuric 
acid, 10 drops; laudanum, 5 drops; chloric ether, 10 drops; tincture 
of gum catechu, 20 drops ; peppermint or cinnamon water, a small 
wine-glassful. To be taken at one dose for an adult, and repeated 
every two or three hours if required. Children 10 to 12 years of age, 
half the above dose ; and younger, less in proportion to age. 

A speedy Remedy for Recent Colds. — Ten drops of spirit of sal-volatile, 
chloric ether, and red lavender, taken in a wine-glassful of camphor 
julep, and repeated at intervals of a few hours. 

Lotion for Sprains, — Sal ammoniac, ^ an oz. ; rose-water, ^ a pint; 
eau-de-Cologne, a table-spoonfiil. Rags wet widi the lotion should be 
laid on the injured part, and changed when they get diy. 

The above lotion will be found very useful and refreshing if applied 
as a wash for the face, neck, arms, etc, during warm summer weather, 
allaying much the inconveniences of profuse perspiration. 

A Good Pick-me-up, — ^Dissolve as much bicarbonate of potash as will 
cover a threepenny-piece and a small lump of white sugar in a wine- 
glassful of cold water ; then add a tea-spoonful each of tincture of gentian 
and tincture of cardamoms, and half that quantity of sal-volatile. Stir, 
and drink all. 

Palpitation of the Heart, — Drink a pint of cold water. 

Marseilles Vim^ar, a Preventive to Infection, — Infuse rue, sage, mint, 
rosemary, wormwood, of each a handful, in 2 quarts of the sharpest 
vinegar, over warm embers for eight days; then strain it through a 
flannel, and add ^ an oz. of camphor dissolved in 3 oz. of rectified 
spirits of wine. With this wash the face and mouth, and snuff a little 
up the nose when you pay your visit Smell to a sponge dipped 
therein when you approach infected places. 

Sore Throat, — ^Take a pint of cold water when in bed, or eat as 
many apples as you can, and drink apple water. 

An Inflamed Sore Throat, — Lay nitre and loaf sugar, mixed, on the 
tongue. 

For Bctd Digestion, — Drink the juice of half a large lemon immedi- 
ately after dinner every day. 

Flatulence. — Swallow five or seven corns of white pepper for six or 
seven mornings. 

A Prick or Cut that Festers, — ^Apply turpentine with a small brush. 

The Quinsey, — Swallow, slowly, white rose-water mixed with syrup of 
mulberries. 

Rheumatism, — Use the cold bath firequently, with rubbing and sweat- 



492 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

ing ; or mix flower of brimstone with honey in equal quantities. Take 
3 tea-spoonfuls at night, 2 in the morning, and z afterwards morning 
and evening till cured. In their seasons, eat as much asparagus as you 
can, and also strawbeiries. 

Sciatica. — Boil nettles till soft; foment with the liquor; then apply 
the herb as a poultice. 

Scorbutic Gums. — ^Wash them daily with a decoction of the Peruvian 
bark, adding a little tincture of roses, with a solution of myrrh. 

A broken Shin. — Put on a bit of white paper moistened with spittle ; 
it will stay on till the place is well. 

Bloodshot Eye. — ^Apply linen rags dipt in cold water frequently. 

A bruise in the Eye, — Apply, as a plaster, conserve of roses. 

An excellent Eye- Water. — Boil very lightiy i spoonful of white 
copperas and 3 spoonfuls of white salt in 3 pints of spring water. When 
cold, bottle it in large phials without straining. Take up the phial softly, 
and put a drop or two in the eye night and morning. 

Weak Eyes. — ^Wash the head daily with cold water. 

Dysentery. — Feed on rice-milk, and sit a quarter of an hour in a 
shallow tub, having in it warm water three inches deep. 

Gout — Steadily use the elixir of vitriol in proper doses. 

Gravel. — Eat largely of spinach when in season. 

Headache. — Get some one to rub your head for a quarter of an hour, 
or be electrified. 

Headache from Heat. — ^Apply to the forehead cloths dipt in cold 
water for an hour. 

Heartburn. — Drink a pint of cold water. 

To cure Hiccup. — Three drops of oil of cinnamon on a lump of 
sugar. 

Hoarseness, — ^A tea-spoonful of conserve of roses every night 

Leiliargy. — ^Take a pint of decoction of water cresses morning and 
evening. 

TJu Measles, — Immediately consult a physician. In the interim, 
drink water gruel, or milk and water, or toast and water, — ^the more the 
better, — ^and keep out of all draughts. 

A Whitlow. — ^A poultice of chewed bread. 

Bums. — Lime water beaten up with sweet oil is an excellent oint- 
ment for bums; and medicated cotton laid over the burnt parts is 
admirable for its cooling properties. 

Cramp. — Cramp may be kept at a distance by tilting the bed, so that 
the feet and legs should be in a slightly depending position. The idea 
is the keeping more blood in the legs. 

Warts. — ^There is a very useful property belonging to the Ranunculus 
arveus, or common crow-foot, which I do not think is generally knon*n. 



RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC 493 

On breaking the stalk of the growing plant in two, a drop of milky juice 
will be observed to hang on the upper part of the stem; if this is allowed 
to drop on the wart, so that it be well saturated with the juice, in about 
three or four dressings the warts will die, and may be picked off with 
the fingers. 

Cold Cream for Chapped Hands, — ^Take 2 oz. of oil of almonds, i oz. 
of spermaceti, and a piece of white wax as big as a hazel-nut, and melt 
them together at the bottom of a basin. When these are melted and 
well mixed, pour over them a pint of cold spring water, and let them 
stand for 24 hours. Then pour away all the water, and pound the 
mixed residue in a mortar. Scent with a drop or two of essence of 
bergamot, or a litde lavender. 

Receipt for Boils, Carbuncles, etc, — ^Two oz. of soft soap, \ an oz. of bee's- 
wax, a large tea-spoonful of flour, a ^ of a tea-cupful of beer, a ^ of an 
oz. of the best sweet oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle. These ingredients 
to be simmered for a quarter of an hour in an earthen pipkin. Apply 
thinly spread on a piece of linen. Change it twice a day, and sponge 
the parts with warm water. 

Lip Salve. — Alkanet root, 1 drachm ; oil of almonds, i oz. ; sperma- 
ceti cerate, 2 oz. Add a few drops of any scent that you like, while 
warm. Take care to let the alkanet root be put in a jar with the oil, 
and placed on the hob or in an oven till it is a beautiful red ; then take 
it out and place it again on the hob with the cerate. 

To prevent Chilblains. — ^Wear flannel socks, or socks of chamois 
leather, when you go to bed. 

To cure Chilblains. — ^Wash them with tincture of myrrh in a little water.. 

For Cold. — Drink a pint of cold water when in bed. 

Windy Cholic. — Drink a pint of camomile tea, or parched peas 
eaten freely. 

Bilious Cholic. — Drink warm lemonade. 

Costivencss. — Rise early, or take daily (two hours before dinner) a 
small tea-cupful of stewed prunes. 

Dry Cough. — Immediately after your cough, chew a piece of Peruvian 
bark, about the size of a peppercorn. Swallow your spittle as long as 
it is bitter, and then spit out the wood. Do this every time you cough ; 
it is invaluable. 

Asthma. — Cut an ounce of stick liquorice into slices. Steep this in 
a quart of water four and twenty hours, and use it as a common drink, 
and eat as much toasted bacon with the dripping as you can. 

Bleeding of the Nose. — ^Wash the temples, nose, and neck with 
vinegar. 

Bleeding of a Wound. — ^Take ripe puff-balls, break them warily, and 
save the powder ; strew this on the wound, and bind it on. 



494 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Spitting Blood. — ^Three tea-spoonfiils of sage juice in a little honey. 

A Bruise, — ^Apply a plaster of chopped paisley mixed with butter. 

To prevent Swelling from a Bruise, — Immediately apply a doth five 
or six times doubled, dipt in cold water, and re-dipt when it grows 
warm. 

To cure a Swelling from a Bruise. — Foment it half an hour (morning 
and evening) with cloths dipt in water as hot as you can bear, or a 
bruised onion. 

For a Cough. — ^Drink a pint of cold water when you get into bed. 

Th€ Cramp. — Be electrified through the part which uses to be 
afifected, or hold a roll of brimstone^ in your hand. 

A Cut, — ^Bind on toasted cheese. 

Deafness. — Be electrified through the ear, and use the cold bath. 

An intermitting Fever. — Drink warm lemonade in the beginning of 
every fit 

To draw out TTioms, Splinters^ etc. — ^Turpentine spread on wash leather. 

When you can't Slop { VigiUa). — Take a grain or two of camphor 
before getting into bed. 

Ulcer. — Foment morning and evening with a decoction of walnut 
leaves, and bind the leaves on. 

Inflamed Uvula. — ^Touch it firequently with a brush steeped in 
camphorated spirits of wine. 

Relaxed Uvula. — ^Bruise the veins of a cabbage leaf, and lay it hot 
on the crown of the head ; repeat, it needed, in two hours. 

Warts. — ^Rub them daily with a radish when in season, or with the 
juice of marigold flowers. 

Weah Ankles. — Hold them in cold water a quarter of an hour, 
morning and evening. 

To cure Night Perspirations. — Drink a gill of warm milk at bed-time 
in bed. 

To prevent the Toothache. — Rinse your mouth well in cold water every 
morning, and rinse well after eveiy meal when practicable. All rough 
and cutting powders destroy the teeth, so do all common tinctures. 
Sweetmeats are apt to hurt the teeth, if the mouth be not rinsed after- 
wards. Cracking nuts and bitmg off thread often cracks and chips 
the enamel. Constant use of toothpick is bad. 

When in Extreme 7>iiirr/.— *Drink spring water, in which a little 
sal prunella is dissolved. 

RXn.ES FOR A SICK ROOM. 

r. A sick room should be kept very sweet and airy. If the weather 
is warm enough, let the door or window be open ; if cold, let there be 
a small fire. The chimney should never be stopped up. 



RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. 493 

3. It should be made rather dark, by a blind over the window j but 
bcd-cuitains should not be drawn dose. 

3. It should be very clean. The floor should be wiped over with a 
damp cloth every day. 

4. As soon as medicine comes, read the labels and directions care- 
fully. The medicines should be kept in one particular place, and all 
bottles, cups, etc. that are done with should be taken away at once. 

5. The room should be kept very quiet There should be no talking 
nor gossiping; one 01 two people at the most, besides the invalid, are 
quite enough to be there at a time.' 

6. The sick person's iace, and hands, and feet should be often 
washed with warm water and soap, and the mouth be rinsed with 
vinegar and water; the hair should be cut rather short, and be combed 
every day. 

7. Never give gin, rum, or other spirits, unless ordered by the 
medical attendant Sick people always feel weak, but such things 
given at a wrong time would only make them weaker. 

8. When a person lies long in bed, take great care that the back and 
hips are kept clean and dry. If any place looks red or tender, dab it 
twice a day with some spirit, and arrange thin pillows so as to take 
the weight off the tender parts. If the skin comes off, apply yellow 
basil icon ointment 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 



WHAT a wondrous thing is vegetation ! Take a trowel full of 
earth, and look attentively at it There does not seem any- 
thing creative or sustaining about the black mass ; yet put the bulb of 
a lily into this bit of earth, and see what it shall develope with the 
aid of the sun, the shower, and the atmosphere, — a thing so beautiful, 
that Solomon in all his glory was not clothed like one of these. And 
so we cannot wonder at a garden being a spot of earth made peculiar 
ground ; for it is full of sweet wonders, and of the smiles of God's good- 
ness, which flowers are so truly said to resemble. And again, it soothes 
the mind with a balm fresh from Eden, and renovates the soul and glad- 
dens the eye. I do not think I ever knew any one who rejoiced in a 
garden who was a sour-complexioned soul. God Almighty placed man 
in a garden in the first blessed state of his being, and walked therein with 
him ; and it can be so again, though not continuously as then ; but we 
can still snatch a few hours of calm enjoyment from the turmoil of life, 
and delve amidst the beauties of flower-life, — working thus far in har- 
mony with Him who hath clothed the hills with verdure, and strewed 
about our pathway the blooming reminiscences of the better land. 

The following instructions are culled from the excellent little manual 
of Mr, Carter, of the well-known firm of Messrs, James Carter, Dunnett, 
and Bealc, of 237 and 238 H^h Holbom, W.C., to whom I can con- 
fidently recommend my readers for all matters appertaining to garden 
culture, the pmrchase of seeds, etc. . — v 

JANUARY. 

Where there is the convenience of a vinery at work, commence about 
the last week in the month to pot off firom the store pots the plants 
intended for bedding out, beginning with scarlet geraniums and other 
free-rooting varieties, leaving verbenas and other more tender beddeis 



THE GARDEN-, AND GARDENING. 497 

until next month. Plants reserved in the autumn for the purpose of fur- 
nishing spring cuttings, such as Heliotropes, Fuchsias, Lantanas,Cupheas, 
Verbenas, and Lobelias, should also be brought into heat to start ; see 
also that a sufficient quantity of fresh dung and leaves are getting ready 
for a bed for striking these cuttings. Have some composts under cover 
ready for the earliest sowing of annuals next month : in the out-door 
department attend to neatness in the grass and the borders along the 
principal walks ; trench up all vacant beds, adding some nice decayed 
leaf mould where necessary ; thin out shrubberies, and, weather per- 
mitting, commence digging the same, keeping in mind, however, that 
established shrubberies will be best undug, and, if weeds appear, well 
hoed. If the hyacinths in beds are pushing through, it is a good plan 
to cover the beds with dry rotten leaves, or a mixture of dry earth, 
ashes, and a little lime, as the leaves, though well rotten, will present 
a rough surface in which slugs will hide during the day, and come out 
to forage at night. Bear in mind, that after this month every week will 
bring an increase of necessary operations ; it is well, therefore, to be in 
advance. 

FEBRUARY. 

Preparations for summer display must have constant attention. Sow 
some of the most showy hardy annuals in pots, and place them in a 
frame on gentle bottom heat j these will flower very early. A few may 
also be sown on a warm border, to transplant into the flower borders 
when they are dug up next month; dress the beds or patches of 
annuals which have been standing through the winter with soot and 
ashes to keep away snail; make up a good dung-bed early in the 
month, and commence striking the cuttings of bedding plants as soon 
as they are ready. When the first-potted bedding plants are well rooted, 
remove them to a cooler temperature, and supply their places with 
freshly-potted ones from the stores; bring forward the dry roots of 
choice Dahlias into heat, to furnish cuttings. The tall varieties ot 
Lobelias should be put into heat, and when started into growth, part 
and pot them singly into four-inch pots, and harden ofi" when well 
rooted ; shift Carnations and Picotees into their blooming pots at the 
end of the month ; protect choice Tulips and Hyacinths ; fumigate 
Auriculas and top-dress them ; let them have plenty of air and protec- 
tion from frost and damp ; commence the pruning of hardy Roses, also 
of climbing Roses on walls and trellises ; where crowded, remove ex- 
hausted wood, and lay in young stuff. Dress over Scillas and choice 
Crocus with soot and ashes ; also lay traps for mice, which are very 
destructive to crocus roots. Sow some pots or pans of German ten- 
week Stocks for early flowering, also a pan of Delphinum Chinense and 

2 I 



498 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

Fonnosum to flower late in the autumn* Commence digging up the 
borders in the rougher parts of the mixed flower garden ; and where 
the background is formed of shrubs, let them be thinned out, re~ 
arranged, and blanks filled up as may be found necessary ; some nice 
rotten leaf mould pricked in amongst the choicer sorts of shrubs will 
be very beneficial 

MARCH. 

All the autmnn $tores of bedding plants must now be potted ofl* with- 
out delay, and the stock continually increased by spring-struck cuttings. 
Have some turf-pits in readiness for pricking out, at three inches apart, 
all the spring-struck Verbenas* These pits must have a moveable water- 
proof covering ; glass is best, but wooden shutters will da Nothing 
is better than calico strained tight, but in very frosty nights some more 
covering of litter or branches will be necessary. See that hardy annuals 
sown in pots last month are getting hardened off" for planting out Sow 
Sweet Peas in pots in a gentle heat, to be hardened off quickly and 
planted out for early flowering ; sow the same in the open border for 
succession; also sow some hardy annuals in the open ground, and 
protect the tenderest by placing a pot over them, which should be 
lifted on one side, or taken off on fine days. This is a good plan when 
a fine regular bed is wanted, or to form patches at regular distances. 
Prick out German ten-week Stocks, and sow more seed. A general 
sowing of hardy annuals may be made at the end of the month if the 
borders are ready. Sow also lawn grasses in showery weather. Plant 
out seeding Pansies; top-dress Pinks and Carnations; stir the soil 
amongst Tulip, Hyacinth, and Ranunculus beds, and protect them from 
snails. When digging the borders of herbaceous plants, reduce the 
size of all overgrown specimens, and fill up vacancies from the reserve 
garden. Finish pruning all Roses, manure them well, and replace rotten 
stakes. Keep grass and gravel well swept and rolled. Plant out bulbs 
of the beautiful varieties of Gladiolus. Throw up a dung bed the last 
week, for tender annuals early next month. 

APRIU 

Let the principal sowing of hardy annuals be made immediately, if 
it were not done last month. The manure bed recommended last 
month will now be ready, and may at once be filled with pots or pans 
sown with tender annuals, — ^such as French and African Marigolds, 
Spanish and Indian Pinks, German and French Asters, Zinnias, Nolana*s, 
Tropceola, Maurandyas, Lychospermums, and many others which will be 
found enumerated in catalogues, most of which will be required to be 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING, 499 

pricked out into nursery beds, to be finally transplanted into the borders 
towards the end of next month. Plant out beds of German Stocks firom 
the early sowings ; keep them shaded imtil rooted ; sow more seed for 
succession, and also of intermediate stock for autumn blooming. The 
value of bulbous plants for spring display will now be fully apparent ; 
for with Hyacinths, Jonquils, Narcissus, Scillas, Van Thol and other 
early tulips, and Turban Ranimculus, an amount of beauty may be 
realized which those who have not tried cannot conceive. Plant out 
immediately the beds of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchifiora. Sow Holly- 
hocks and other perennial herbaceous plants, also biennials for next 
year's blooming. Let bedding plants in their various stages have due 
attention ; any which are pot-bound may, towards the end of the month, 
be turned out under a temporary firamework into light soil, and kept 
covered at night : attend particularly to keeping down insects — it very 
often constitutes the difference between success and failure. Plants 
pot-bound, standing with pots exposed to the sun, parching dryness of 
the roots at one time and a drenching at another, with the cold attend- 
ing a rapid evaporation of moisture, are firuitful causes of weakness and 
hosts of insects. All such plants that make fibrous roots are better 
planted out in a bed, with the necessary protection given to them ; 
hence Calceolarias, etc do better when they never see artificial heat, 
and never know what it is to be cramped, heated, and cooled in pots. 
Even plants in pots would be less liable to such extremes, and require 
less labour in looking after them, when plunged in some open material. 
As a general rule, plants struck in autumn in a cool temperature do 
best, though there are often exceptions, as Verbenas struck in heat in 
the spring, and well hardened off afterwards. Calceolarias struck in 
spring come in well for edgings, and perhaps bloom more fireely in 
autumn. The difference in time is also of importance to the beginner, 
who likes to see the results of his handiwork. For instance, Calceo- 
laria cuttings inserted in a cold pit in the end of October may take two 
months before they emit a single root ; a similar cutting will be rooted 
in as many days in a hot-bed in March and April. To ensure quick 
rooting, the cutting should be growing, be slipped off dose to the older 
stem, dressed there, and the foliage thinned to lessen the perspiring 
surface; be inserted in sandy soil in a well-drained pot; the pot be 
plunged in a sweet hot-bed, be watered, a little air let in at night 
to prevent vapours accumulating, the sashes shut during the day, and a 
litde shading given tf»/y when the cutting will not stand sunlight without 
flagging. Look well to the watering of newly-planted trees, shrubs, 
ToseSi and herbaceous plants, if the weather is at all cry and parching. 



500 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



MAY. 

Early in this month commence planting the rooted runners of Nea- 
politan, Russian, and Tree Violets, in beds previously prepared by the 
addition of fresh compost, at from seven to nine inches apart, and take 
care during the season to give them abundance of water. Propagate 
also spring-flowering plants, such as Alyssum, Iberis, Arabis, Wall- 
flowers, and Arenarias, to be planted in the reserve garden when rooted. 
Sow a bed of German Asters and some hardy annuals in pots plunged 
in a shady place, for the purpose of filling up vacancies later in the 
season. The last week in the month will be the proper time to com- 
mence planting out the bedding-plants. Begin with the hardiest and 
well-hardened plants, particularly Verbenas and Calceolarias, leaving 
the tender sorts, such as Heliotropes, Petunias, Salvias, and others 
likely to suffer even from a slight frost, until early next month. 
Towards the end of the month, when the plants are large enough, com- 
mence planting in the mixed borders the tender annuals mentioned 
last month ; choose dull days for the operation, and water through a 
fine rose to settle the earth about the roots. In all such watering, and 
especially in the case of bedding plants at all tender, it is well to water 
at the roots before all the earth is replaced, so as to have the surface 
loose and as dry as possible. For similar reasons, preventing loss of 
heat by evaporation, etc, it is advisable not to plant such things on a 
wet day or when the ground is wet, as then it takes great trouble to get 
the trampled ground sweet and friable. Roses should now have plenty 
of liquid manure and frequent syringings overhead. 

JUNE. 

As the season is now arrived in which it becomes an absolute neces- 
sity to get out the whole of the stock of bedding plants, such things 
as Turban Ranunculus, Hyacinths, and other bulbs which have been 
occupying the beds, must be taken up at any sacrifice ; they must there- 
fore be very carefully lifted without injuring the foliage, and plunged in 
sand for a time before being exposed to dry for storing ; the next thing 
is to give the beds a little fresh compost, and proceed with the planting. 
When all the bedding-out is done, let the surface of the beds be neatly 
levelled, and such as require it have the plants pegged down ; it is of 
importance not to do this too soon, as a cold night that will not injure 
a plant growing upright will blacken and destroy a shoot of such pknta 
placed in a horizontal position. Great economy will be gained by 
arranging plants according to height, and so as to require no pegging. 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 501 

Continue the planting out of tender annuals ; these are very useful in 
the mixed borders to supply the vacancies which are always occurring 
through the plants going out of bloom ; take care that there is a reserve 
bed of those things to supply future vacancies of the kind. Patches of 
annuals sown last month must be well thinned out, and more may be 
sown for later blooming. Plant in the mixed borders a good number 
of Cuphea Platycentra and Strigulosa ; they come in so cheerful-looking 
late in the autumn ; and more especially if there are bees within travel- 
ling distance, they will be sure to find them out The propagation of 
spring-flowering herbaceous plants must be finished off immediately. 
Finks also, and Pansies, must now be propagated, the first especially, 
for forcing. For out-door work, the cuttings may be slipped off in the 
beginning of next month ; they will do best in sandy soil, under a hand- 
light About the middle ot the month sow Brompton, Queen, and 
Emperor Stocks, to stand through the winter. Finish off the planting of 
Dahlias, and keep them well watered ; continue to give Roses thorough 
syringings, unless just when they are in full bloom, and also repeated 
doses of liquid manure. 

JULY. 

Bedded-out plants will now be started off into full growth, and will 
require to be trained out and nicely pegged down as they advance. 
The borders in the mixed flower garden will require to be kept up to 
the extreme of neatness, by staking and tying the plants as they require 
it, hoeing and raking the borders at short intervals, particularly after 
heavy rains, and clearing away all old flower stems and decaying leaves. 
A little dexterity in using the hoe will leave a regular surface without 
the use of the rake — it is one of those tools we dread to see in a nice 
bed or border ; many plants that are ruined by * Mr. Nobody ' may 
easily trace their destruction to a whip from the rake : for all such pur- 
poses we would keep that tool under lock and key. As Roses will now 
be objects of great attraction, they must have corresponding attention 
paid to them : nothing tends more to prolong the summer bloom than 
a constant supply of water and liquid manure ; dead flowers and insects 
must be constantly removed by handpicking ; and when the bloom is 
over, use the syringe thoroughly. Lose no time in getting a good stock 
of Cloves, Picotees, and Carnations layered. If taken at the beginning 
of the month, much time will be saved by taking off cuttings, inserting 
them in sandy soil in pots, and placing in a sweet hot-bed, or inserting 
in soil over such a hot-bed at once. This may easily be done without 
disfiguring the old plants, not by cutting off the slips, but by catching 
each firmly above the second joint with the right hand, holding the 
shoot below with the left, then give a brisk pull, and the cutting will 



S02 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

come out dean at the joint, and be ready at once for dibbing in. In 
some cases there may be a little fihn adhering, which must be removed 
with a sharp knife. Prick out Brompton and Queen Stocks into nursety 
beds; see that beds of Violets do not want for water. Towards the 
end of the month put in a few handlights of choice Verbena cuttings on 
a south border, which will make fine plants to pot in September, and 
supply any number of cuttings in the spring. Cuttings inserted in this 
and the next month will have little chance to be troubled with mildew 
or thrip, which is almost sure to attack these plants late in antumn. 
The propagation of any choice kinds of bedding plants when the stock 
is short may be commenced at once, and followed up as fast as cuttings 
can be procured. Stake Hollyhocks and Dahlias in time, also Salvias, 
Phloxes, Asters, and other autumnal-blooming plants. Pick off the seed 
vessels from Rhododendrons and Azaleas ; and if the weather is dry, let 
them have copious supplies of water, and mulch when procurable, with 
rotten dung in which leaves form a principal part. Clip box edgings, 
also yew, thorn, and laurel hedges; but for yews and laurel, and 
especially the latter, it is preferable to use the knife, and so as to hide 
the cuts ; it is always disagreeable to see laurel leaves chopped and 
cut in the middle. Go over the shrubberies and reduce any over- 
luxuriant growth, and remove the remains of early flowers. 

AUGUST. 

Operations in this department for this month are principally routinal, 
such as watering, staking, tying, and, in fact, all the operations which 
have a thorough neatness in view. Bedding plants of all sorts should 
now be in very great beauty, and it is the proper time to detennine on 
any different arrangement of colour which may be thought desirable for 
another season. The taU varieties of Lobelias will be very much 
benefited by frequent and copious applications of liquid manure, so also 
will the beds of Cannas. Give plants of Pampas Grass frequent doses of 
liquid manure and water alternately, if the weather is dry. Propagation 
for the wants of another season niust now be commenced, particularly 
of such sorts as do not ropt freely ; for unless they get pretty well 
rooted before winter, they are often difficult to preserve. All kinds of 
juicy Scarlet Pelargoniums will root well in the open air; the shrivelling 
of their leaves is of no consequence. Attend strictly to the routine of 
mowing, sweeping, and rolling, and to keeping the edges of all well 
defined; indeed, perfect order and a finished appearance are quite 
as essential to the enjoyment of a garden as beautiful flowers and 
superior cultivation. 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 503 



SEPTEMBER. 

Towards the end of this month or the beginning of next, sow hardy 
annuals to stand through the winter. The following may be safely re- 
commended: — ^Nemophila Discoidalis, Insignis, and Maculata; Gilia 
Achillaefolia and Tricolour ; Clarkia Fulchella and Alba ; Platystemon 
Califomicus ; Erysimum Perowskianum ; Godetia Tenella, Lindleyana, 
and Rubicunda; CoUinsia Vema, Bicolour, Multicolour, and Bartsiaefolia; 
limnanthes Douglasi; Bartonia Aurea ; Callichroa Platyglossa ; Silene 
Compacta, Pendula, Shaft!, etc. ; Virginian Stock ; Lupinus Nanus ; 
Cyanus; Eucharidium Grandifiorum ; Sanvitalia Procumbens; Esch- 
scholtzia Crocea and Califomica ; Leptosiphon Androsaceus ; Calliopsis 
of the Tinctoria Varieties ; Sweet Al3rssum ; all the annual Candytufts, 
and Catchfly, etc With the above a great display may be made in the 
spring. Autumn-flowering Roses must be supplied with liquid manure. 
Commence the planting of Narcissus, Crocus, Anemones, and Aconites 
as soon as the places are vacant Stake and fasten securely Salvias, 
Dahlias, Asters, and other autumn-flowering plants. Get in a good stock 
of cuttings of free-rooting bedding plants in store pots to stand through 
the winter. Shallow boxes, five inches deep, from two to two and a 
half feet long, and nine to twelve inches wide, are so far better than 
pots, that the quantities of cuttings are easier moved from place to 
place ; and provided they are roughly made, — the sides not too perfect 
a join to the bottom, — ^no drainage will be necessary except a little 
rough soil or compost over the bottom. Let us reconmiend, either for 
pots or boxes, the avoidance of half-rotten tree leaves at the bottom of 
either such pots or boxes, as they are apt to give no end of crops of 
fungL Prepare beds for Pansies. Plant out Pinks; pot off rooted 
layers of Picotee and Carnation, and plant the rest in nursery beds. 
Pick off dead seed vessels from Scarlet Geraniums and Verbenas ; and, 
indeed, try and make the most of all the late bloom by the constant 
removal of unsightly refuse, and attention to neatness. 

OCTOBER. 

• 

As the season of beauty will soon be over for most of the bedding 
plants towards the middle and the end of the month, begin to take up 
Scarlet Geraniums, and such like plants, which are required for storing. 
Take up as many as there can possibly be found room for, as old plants 
will always be found to flower earlier and more abundantly than young 
cutting plants, providing you can command room to give them suitable 
treatment ; but, in a majority of cases, this does not obtain, and young 



504 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

struck plants will beat the old plants now flourishing in the beds. One 
thing is essential to success, and that is, that the plants should have 
previously been little injured by frost Those things that spread their 
roots far, as Heliotropes, are better secured in the shape of young plants. 
Scarlet Geraniums do well in many ways : for instance, if you want a 
few tall ones for the centre of beds, raise and pot the plants, in the 
smallest pots in which the roots will go ; remove most of the leaves, 
and, after watering, place them anywhere where they will be free trom 
frost and damp ; if they had a little bottom heat, they would break away 
in no time. Another plan is useful for those who cannot keep young 
plants : take up the Geraniums (at least, as soon as the top leaves are 
touched with frost) ; cut the plants down to five to six inches in height, 
which will remove all the soft stems, and leave each head, like so many 
stag horns ; then thin off all the roots to three or four inches in length, 
cut the tops close to a joint, and dip all these cut parts in a pot of lime, 
to dry up the wounds, after removmg every leaf; then take these 
skeleton Geraniums and pack the roots as closely as possible in largish 
pots or shallow wooden boxes, every pot or box looking like a little 
faggot. A good-sized bed may thus be squeezed into a 12-inch pot 
Water, and when fairly drained and settled, cover the surface over with 
dry soil ; and in any dry airy place, from whence frost is excluded, and 
even where there is little or no light, these plants will keep alive, and 
scarcely show any movement of growth imtil the month of March, when 
they must have light ; and as the leaves get the size of a shilling, they 
must be turned out, and be potted or planted separately. Under such 
treatment, if after the pruning they were potted separately, or packed 
together, and placed in heat, they would soon begin to grow ; but then 
they must have care all the winter. The rougher process minimizes 
care, position, etc. The variegated kinds do rather best when potted 
separately, and after more slight pruning and removing the large leaves, 
it is best to place them in pots just large enough to hold the roots, and 
in light soil, rather sandy than otherwise, and put them into a pit near 
the glass, and give them for a short time a gentle heat to start them 
afresh, and then gradually expose them to harden, when they may be 
placed on shelves and other vacant places in the greenhouse. When 
such treatment cannot be given the old plants, it would be wisest to 
let them alone, and secure nice young plants, by inserting cuttings in 
the end of July and the beginning of August No cuttings of bedding 
plants will do much good now, unless they have the advantages of 
bottom heat and dry heat when necessary ; and this involves much more 
labour and attention than if the plants were, like Geraniums, struck in the 
open air in August, or like Verbenas and Heliotropes in a cold frame 
or pit, at the same time where they could be shaded when necessary. 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 505 

We know of hardly one exception as to the time of striking, unless that 
of the shrubby bedding Calceolarias — they alwa3rs, with us, do best when 
stubby side cuttings are taken off, and inserted in fresh sandy loam, 
under a cold frame or pit, in the end of October or the beginning of 
November ; we prefer the last, if we could make sure of frost keeping 
.away. They will take a couple of months or more to make roots, but 
then scarcely one in a thousand will fail to do so ; among them there is 
one exception — the Amplexicaulis — ^which will not bear so much cold 
and damp as the others. In the case of other bedding plants that have 
been inserted as cuttings some time ago, and have not rooted suffi- 
ciently, a little bottom heat, with light and air above, will be of im- 
portance for getting them all right before the short days come on us. 
When all the principal beds are cleared, let them be immediately pre- 
pared for the reception of bulbous plants, such as Narcissus, Hyacinths, 
Turban Ranunculus, and Tulips, and let the whole of them be edged with 
Ciocus of various colours ; some may also be filled with spring-Rowering 
herbaceous plants, such as Viola Arborea, Primroses, Polyanthus, Alys- 
sum, Iberis, Aubrietia, and Arabis, all of which will help to keep up a 
gay appearance in early spring, and will mostly be over before the beds 
will be again required for bedding plants. Some of the larger beds may 
be filled with nice dwarf plants of the hardier evergreens; common 
Rhododendrons, which may be moved any day in the year, are very 
suitable for the purpose — ^in fact, all evergreens, when they come to be 
moved every year, get quite used to, and seem to look for the operation ; 
for such purposes a reserve garden should be kept Many kinds of 
herbaceous plants may now be taken up, divided, and replanted ; it is 
far better than doing it in the spring. Amongst them do not forget 
those useful plants, the double Rockets, both purple and white ; they 
should be lifted annually about the first week in the month, divided into 
pieces, and replanted in fresh situations. Alterations which involve 
planting trees and shrubs should be set about vigorously ; every tree 
and shrub planted this month will stand in a far better position as to 
its well-doing, than those planted during any other month of the year, 
however carefully they may be tended. What is said on planting fruit 
trees will here apply. Attention, as in spring, to watering, etc. will be 
reduced to a minimum. 

NOVEMBER. 

The bulbs of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchiflora may now be lifted, and, 
after being dried, stored away in sand seciure from mice. Frequently 
the leaves keep green a long time, and in that case should be lifted and 
packed closely imder glass, and the roots kept moistish until the leaves 



So6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

decay ; in diy soils we have known them stand f^r years, with a ridge 
of dry ashes placed over the rows ; it is a long time before a conical 
row of such dry ashes gets wet through. Let the stems be cut ofif from 
the beds or patches of Japan Lilies, and then cover them with about 
four inches of decayed leaves : a similar covering should be put over 
the beds of Alstroemerias. Dahlia roots will now be matured, and may 
be carefully lifted, taking care to secure the labels to the roots with 
wire ; lay ^em out to dry previous to storing them away for the winter, 
and if a sharp frost comes before they can be lifted, place a little earth 
round the stem, that the buds at the top of the bulb may not be 
injured Plant Tulips, and finish ofif the plaiiting of Turban Ranunculus, 
Hyacinths, Narcissus, Crocus, Jonquil, and ScUla ; choose the warmest 
and most sheltered situations for the Hyacinths, and they will well repay 
any extra care. Put a little heap of finely-sifted coal-ashes over plants of 
doubtful hardiness, such as Salvia Patens, Ta^etes Lucida, and Fuchsias : 
if neatness and efi&cacy are to be combined, nothing answers better than 
a thin layer of green moss ; it requires a sharp continued frost to get 
through it Bedding plants in store pots will require constant attention 
paid to the removal of decayed foliage, and a free circulation of air ; a 
shelf near the glass in a heated pit or greenhouse is about the best 
place for them, but the difiSculty is to get such a position for the myriads 
now required. Great care must be exercised in watering, as they must 
neither be allowed to get dry, nor yet be saturated; when water is 
necessary, if the drainage is good, give them enough to wet the soil, 
and then wait till they require it again ; never water at this season 
unless absolutely necessary, or unless early in the forenoon, and let it 
always be a few degrees wanner than the temperature of the house. 
When such plants are kept in cold frames and pits, it is well to take 
out a pot when diy, water, and aUow it to drain before replacing it ; 
damp in such cases is as injurious as cold. In watering all houses, let 
as little be spilled as possible, as, unless where a high temperature is 
kept, and the air, as in severe frost, is exceedingly dry, we must neutralize 
the in general too great dampness of the atmosphere in places where 
litde or no artificial heat is given. Continue to plant Roses of all the 
hardy sorts, and let them be well mulched with rotten manure after 
planting. Alterations in pleasure-grounds must be vigorously followed 
up in favourable weather. 

DECEMBER. 

Beds of Roses, both standards and dwarfs, should be well dressed with 
good decomposed stable manure. Tenderer varieties in open beds, 
particularly tea-scented, may with great advantage be carefiilly lifted 



THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 507 

and planted very thickly in trenches in a sheltered place, where they 
can be well protected in hard weather ; or if dwarfs, dry litter or fern 
may be fastened round or packed among the plants ; and if standards, 
fern may be tied about their heads. When taken up as above stated, 
and planted in April in fresh friable soil, they generally bloom splendidly. 
See that beds of Ixias, Gladioli, and Lilia are well protected by a cover- 
ing of half-decayed leaves. Dust over the beds and patches of hardy 
annuals with quick-lime, soot, and wood-askes in a dry state ; slugs are 
apt to be very destructive to them in mild weather, and in severe 
weather some evergreen twigs stuck among them will greatly help them. 
Most of the deciduous trees will now have shed their leaves, and there- 
fore the whole of the lawns should be thoroughly swept, the borders 
well raked over, and the grass and gravel kept constantly well rolled. 
In most gardens the leaves obtained from these sweepings are most 
invaluable, first for hot beds, and then as part of compost ; and, as a 
general rule, the driest soil and the driest air are ever the warmest, 
although we never forget the seeming exceptions, that the air is some- 
times so dry in a severe frost as to be as destructive, when at once 
admitted among tender plants, as the heated fire from a furnace. 
Trench up all vacant beds, and leave them rough, to become well 
frosted ; choice and tender herbaceous plants should also be protected 
from severe frost by a mulching of half-decayed leaves. Now is a good 
time to see if the drainage of the garden is perfect ; if not, let it be 
seen to at once, for the frost will always have more effect upon plants 
where the drainage is imperfect. Do not neglect former directions with 
regard to the store pots of bedding plants — the next six weeks is a 
critical time for them ; after that time, potting off will again commence, 
and it is amazing how fast they will grow when more heat and a litde 
room can be given them. Many with limited space keep the whole of 
their flower-garden stock in store pots until March, when they can make 
more room, and then, when pretty well established, they are turned out 
of doors with a slight protection. The half of the general directions to 
pot off Scarlet Geraniums, Verbenas, etc. etc, in autumn, are just so 
many tantalizing doses to the bulk of practitioners, who, if they did so, 
would never find room in winter for a tithe of the stuff they want, 
though they may manage by having fine lots ot store pots, with 20 or 
30 plants in a pot instead of one. 



HINTS FOR THE ANGELS OF OUR HOUSEHOLD, 

CHIEFLY AS TOUCHINC 

DEPORTMENT AND CONDITION IN LIFE. 



'Learn te be inise and fratlUt hffm te Ihrhie: 
That Ivieuid have Ikeede ; and not to spend 
Yenr coin en tvery bauble that you fancy. 
Or every foidish brain that hummri yau ; 
I would not have you to iirvade eaek plate. 
Nor thrust yoursdf en all lecittitt. 
Till men's a^ectiont, eryeur ean desert, 
Sheuld worthily tnvite yeii toyeur rank. 
Nor loould I you shenld null away yourself 
In fiasking bravery, lest while you affect 
To mate a blate of gentry to the world, 
A little puff of seern extinguish it. 
And you be left with an untaveury snuff. 
Whose property is only to offend. 
Moderate your expenses now at FIKST, 
As you may keep the same proportion Still ; 
Nor stand so much on your gentility. 
Which is an airy and mere borraaied thing. 
From dead men's dust and bones, and none of yours. 
Except you make or hold it.' — Ben Jonson. 

HAVE AN OBJECT IN LIFE. 

Some high or humble enterprise of good 

Contemplate, till it shall possess thy mind, 
Become thy study, pastime, rest, and food, 

And kindle in thy heart a flame refined. 

Pray heaven for finnness, thy whole soul to bind 
To this thy purpose, — to begin, pursue. 

With thoughts all fixed, and feelings purely kind ; 
Strength to complete, and with delight review, 
And grace to give the praise where all is ever due. 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 509 



' Beware lest thou from sloth, that would appear 
But lowliness of mind, with joy proclaim 
Thy want of work, — z. charge thou couldst not hear 
From other lips without a blush of shame, 
Or pride indignant : then be thine to blame. 
And make thyself of worth ; and thus enlist 

The smiles of all the good, the dear to fame : 
'Tis infamy to die and not be miss'd, 
And let all soon forget that thou didst e'er exist : 

' Rise to some work of high and holy love. 
And thou an angel's happiness shalt know; 

Shalt bless the earth, while in the world above, 
The good begun by thee shall onward flow 
In many a branching stream, and wider grow : 

The seed, that in these few and fleeting hours 
Thy hands unsparing and unwearied sow, 

Shall deck thy grave with amaranthine flowers. 

And yield the fruit divine in heaven's immortal bowers.' 

'^Carlos Wilcox, 



EXAMPLE TO OUR SERVANTS. 

Example is of the greatest importance to our servants, particularly 
those who are young, whose habits are frequently formed by the first 
service they enter. With the mild and good, they become softened and 
improved ; but with the dissipated and violent, are too often disorderly 
and vicious. It is therefore not among the least of the duties incum- 
bent on the heads of families, to place in their view such examples as 
are worthy their imitation. But these examples, otherwise praiseworthy, 
should neither be rendered disagreeable, nor have their force diminished 
by any accompaniment of ill-humour. Rather, by the happiness and 
comfort resulting from our conduct towards our domestics, should they 
be made sensible of the beauty of virtue and piety. What we admire 
we often strive to imitate ; and thus they might be led on to imbibe 
good principles, and to form regular and virtuous habits. — Mrs. Parkes. 



fenelon's advice to housekeepers. 

Women run a risk in being extreme in everything; it is good to 
accustom them from their very childhood to have something under 
their government and management, — to keep accounts, to see the man- 



5IO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

ner of the market as to everything that is bought, and to understand 
how everything belonging to a (kmily should be made fit for use. Bat 
you must also have a care that housekeeping in them turn not to 
avarice : show them particularly all the absurdities of this passion. Say 
to them, ' Take heed ; avarice gains but a little, and dishonours a great 
deal ; a reasonable person ought not to seek anjrthing in a frugal and 
laborious life, but only to avoid the scandal and the injustice which 
attend a prodigal and a ruinous one.' Tell them, moreover, it is often 
great gain to know how to lose when it is fit; and that it is good 
order, and not sordid sparing, which brings in the great profits. Fail 
not to represent the great mistakes of such women who are intent upon 
saving an inch oi candle while they suffer themselves to be cheated in 
a steward of the main part oi their estate. Do for neatness as you do 
for housekeeping; suffer nothing nasty or displaced in your house; 
remember that nothing contributes more to comfort than to keep con- 
stantly everything in its place. This rule appears nothing, yet goes 
very far, if exactly kept If you need anything, not a moment is lost in 
finding it ; there is no trouble, or dispute, or confusion. Good order 
is certainly one of the greatest parts of neatness. Nothing is more 
pleasing to the eye than to see this exact disposition of things. To 
these advantages add that of taking away, by this habit, from servants, 
those of idleness or confusion. And it is more than a little thing to 
render their service quick and easy, and to take from ourselves the 
impatience we feel when anything cannot be found. 

Mothers should instruct their children, however young, in household 
matters. The disinterested afiection of mothers often leads them to 
dispense with all assistance from their daughters in their domestic 
affairs, so long as they are in daily attendance at school, or, as the 
common phrase is, whilst they are 'getting their education.' Where 
the school-hours are diligently employed, and the tasks laborious, and 
much time is required to prepare lessons at home, that it is particularly 
important that all the leisure a girl has should be wisely disposed of in 
healthful exercise ; but far better would it be for her health that some 
of her time should be given to the stirring occupations of the household, 
than that she should be sitting over a frame of worsted or lacework, 
hurting her eyes, and wasting her time in making bead-bags, or some 
ornamental articles of dress, not worth a tithe of the pains bestowed 
upon them. 

THE FIRST YEAR OF MARRIED LIFE. 

The first year of a woman's married life is not alwa3rs most free from 
vexations and troubles. She carries into one family the prejudices and 
the habits of another, which sometimes prove so different, as to cause the 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 511 

task of assimflatiDg herself, in her new character, to those with whom 
she is henceforth to dwell, to be both painful and difficult If she be 
solicitous to promote unanimity between her new connections and her- 
self, she will perhaps examine how far she can 3rield to their preju- 
dices, and in what degree she ought to maintain her own. By yielding 
a little, she makes, at least, her road smoother, if she do not thereby 
lay the foundation of esteem and affection, not to be shaken for the 
future by any trifling cause. As the happiness of the husband is 
liable to interruption, and his temper to be tried, by the petty umbrages 
and irritations between his wife and his relations, it is her duty, and 
assturedly the best mode of securing her own happiness, to endeavour 
to please them, so as to engage their affections if possible. A deter- 
mination to be pleased herself is half-way towards pleasing them ; and 
this may be shown by her willingness to discover their agreeable traits 
of character, rather than, with the critical penetration of ill-humour, to 
mark their weaknesses and errors. By pleasing manners at first, she 
may secure herself a favourable reception into her husband's family ; 
and in time, when she has proved her worth, her footing amongst them 
will be on a surer foundation. Many and various are the means to 
promote happiness in married life. A cheerful manner, a kind word, 
a readiness to oblige, can always diffuse a pleasing influence around. 
'I noticed,' observes Dr. Franklin in his Life, 'a mechanic among a 
number of others, at work in a house, erecting but a little way from my 
ofiice, who always appeared to be in a merry humour, — who had a kind 
word and a cheerful smile for every one he met Let the day be ever 
so cold, gloomy, or sunless, a happy smile danced like a sunbeam on 
his cheerful countenance. Meeting him one morning, I asked him to 
tell me the secret of his constant happy flow of spirits. " No secret. 
Doctor," he replied ; " I have got one of the best of wives, and when I 
go to work she always has a kind word of encouragement for me ; and 
when I go home she meets me with a smile and a kiss, and then tea is 
sure to be ready ; and she has done so many little things during the day 
to please me, that I cannot find it in my heart to say an unkind word 
to anybody."' 

A wife at the outset of her career should make it her determination, 
in every possible way, to gain the sympathies of her husband, and she 
will rarely fail when she applies herself cheerfully to the task. — Mrs. 
Farkes. 

AVOID UNPUNCrUAL PEOPLE. 

If you desire to enjoy life, avoid unpunctual people. They impede 
business and poison pleasure. Make it your own rule not only to be 
punctual, but a little beforehand. Such a habit secures a composure 



Sia THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

which is essential to happiness. For want of it, many people live in a 
constant fever, and put all about them into a fever too. — Thos. Walker^ 
M.A. 

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE. 

Mr. Hazlitt has said somewhere, of the portrait of a beautiful female 
with a noble countenance, that it seems as if an unhandsome action 
would be impossible in its presence. Most men of any refinement of 
soul, must have felt the truth and force of this sentiment We have 
often thought that the picture of a beloved mother or devoted wife, 
hung up in the room where we spend our leisure hours, must certainly 
excite a mighty influence over the feelings and thoughts. Cowper's 
picture of his mother was a living presence, whose speaking counte- 
nance and beaming eye appealed, as no living mortal could, to his 
inmost soul, and stirred to its profoundest depths. But what is it that 
gives this power to the inanimate resemblance of departed ones? 
Their virtues, their moral graces and excellences, as remembered by 
the affectionate survivor. It may seem an odd thought, but we cannot 
help suggesting it to every female reader, — ^to every sister, wife, and 
mother, — that it is a worthy ambition for each of them to labour to 
be, both now and when dead, that picture in the house^ before which 
vice shall stand abashed, confounded, and in whose presence every 
virtuous and manly heart shall glow with every honourable and lofty 
sentiment, and be irresistibly urged to the love of goodness and 
truth. — W.JoneSy F,S.A. 

WHEN VOU ARE IN LOW SPIRITS. 

Take an ounce of the seeds of resolution, mixed well with the oil of 
good conscience; infuse into it a large spoonful of the salts of patience; 
distil very carefully a composing plant called ' other's woes,' which you 
will find in every part of the garden of life, growing under the broad 
leaves of disguise ; add a small quantity, and it will greatly assist the 
salts ot patience in their operation ; gather a handful of the blossom of 
hope, then sweeten them properly with the balm of prudence ; and if 
you can get any of the seeds of true friendship, you will then have the 
most valuable medicine that can be administered. But you must be 
careful to get some of the seeds of tnte friendships as there is a seed 
very much like it called ' self-interest,' which will spoil the whole com- 
position. Make the ingredients into pills, take one night and morning, 
and the cure will be efliected. 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 513 



PROCRASTINATION AND EXTRAVAGANCE. 

Micawber, — My advice is, Never to do to-morrow what you can do 
to-day. 'Procrastination is the thief of time.' My other piece of 
advice is : Annual income of £20, annual expenditure £i\% 19^. 6//. ; 
result, happiness. Annual income £20^ annual expenditure ^20, 
oj. dd. ; result, misery. The blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered, 
the god of day goes down upon the dreary scene, and, in short, you are 
for ever floored, — as I am now. — Charles Dickens. 



WORTH REMEMBERING. 

To pray to God continually ; 

To leame to know Him rightfully ; 

To honour God in Trinitie, 

The Trinity in Unitie ; 

The Father in His majestie, 

The Son in His humanitie, 

The Holy Ghost's benignitie, 

Three persons one in Deitie ; 

To serve Him always holily ; 

To aske Him all things needfully ; 

To prayse Him alway worthely ; 

To love Him alway stedfastly ; 

To dread Him alway fearefully ; 

To aske Him mercy hartely ; 

To trust Him alway faithfully ; 

To obey Him alway willingly ; 

To abide Him alway patiently ; 

To thank Him alway thankfully ; 

To live here alway vertuously ; 

To use thy neighbour honestly ; 

To looke for death still presently ; 

To helpe the poore in misery ; 

To hope for heaven's felicity ; 

To have faith, hope, and charity; 

To count this life but vanitie — 

Bee points of Christianitie. — Thomas Tusser. 

GOVERN YOUR TEMPER. 

First study to acquire a composure of mind and body. Avoid 

agitation of one or the other, especially before and after meals, and 

2 K 



SI4 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

whilst the process of digestion is going on. To this end, govern your 
temper,— endeavour to look at the bright side of things, — ^keep down 
as much as possible the unruly passions, — discard envy, hatred, and 
malice, and lay your head upon your pillow in charity with all man- 
kind Let not your wants outrun your means. Whatever difficulties 
you have to encounter, be not perplexed, but only think what is right 
to do in the sight of Him who seeth all things, and bear without pining 
the results. When your meals are solitary, let your thoughts be cheer- 
ful ; when they are social, which is better, avoid disputes, or serious 
arguments, or unpleasant topics. 'Unquiet meals,' says Shakspeare, 
* make ill digestions ; ' and tiie contrary is produced by easy conver- 
sation, a pleasant project, welcome news, or a lively companion. I 
advise wives not to entertain their husbands with domestic grievances 
about children or servants, nor to ask for money, nor propound un- 
reasonable or provoking questions ; and advise husbands to keep the 
cares and vexations of tiie world to themselves, but to be com- 
municative of whatever is comfortable, cheerful, and amusing. Self- 
government is the best step to health and happiness. — Walker, 

CIRCUMSPECTION. 

In reflections on the absent, go no further than you would go if they 
were present * I resolve never to speak of a man's virtues before his 
face, nor of his faults behind his back.' A golden rule, the observation 
of which would, at one stroke, banish from the earth flattery and 
defamation. — Bishop Bevtridge. 

GOLD DUST. 

Trust in God; distrust th)rself; act with propriety; pray witii 
sincerity ; use small things, and shun the great ; hear much, say little ; 
be silent as to things hidden ; learn to spare an inferior, to yield to a 
superior, and to bear an equal. — Bishop Beveridge, 



DUTY. 

Are you the mistress of a family? Fulfil th^ charge for which yea 
are responsible. Attempt not to transfer your proper occupation to a 
favourite maid, however tried may be her fidelity and skill To confide 
implicitly in servants is the way to render them undeserving of con- 
fidence. If they be abready negligent or dishonest, your remissness 
encourages their faults, while it continues your own loss and incon- 
venience. If their integrity be unsullied, they axe ignorant of the 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 515 

principles by which your expenses ought to"be regulated ; and will act 
for you on other principles, which, if you were apprised of them, you 
ought to disapprove. They know not the amount of your husband's 
income, nor of his debts, nor of his other incumbrances ; nor, if they 
knew all these things, could they judge what part of his revenue may 
reasonably be expended in the departments with which they are 
concerned. They will not reflect that small degrees of waste and 
extravagance, when it would be easy to guard against them, are 
criminal ; nor will they suspect the magnitude of the sum to which 
small degrees of waste and extravagance, frequently repeated, will 
accumulate in the course of the year. They will consider the credit of 
your character as entrusted to them, and will conceive that they uphold 
it by profusion. The larger your family is, the greater will be the 
annual portion of your expenditure, which by these means will be 
thrown away. And if your ample fortune incline you to regard the 
sum as scarcely worth the little trouble which would have been required 
to prevent the loss, consider the extent of good which it might have 
accomplished had it been employed in feeding the hungry and clothing 
the naked. Be regular in requiring, and punctual in examining, your 
weekly accounts. Be frugal without parsimony; save, that you may 
distribute. Study the comfort of all under your roof, even of the 
humblest inhabitant of the kitchen. Pinch not the inferior part of the 
family to provide against the cost of a day of splendour. Consider 
the welfare of the servants of your own sex as particularly committed 
to you. Encourage them in religion, and be active in furnishing them 
witii all requisites, that they may be fully adequate to the work which 
they have to perform ; but let it not be swelled either from a love of 
parade, or from blind indulgence, to an extent which is needless. In 
those ranks of life where the mind is not accustomed to continued 
reflection, idleness is a never-failing source of folly and of vice. Forget 
not to indulge them, at fit seasons, with visits to their friends. Let not 
one tyrannize over another. In hearing complaints, be patient; in 
inquiring into faults, be candid; in reproving, be temperate and un- 
ruffled. Let not your kindness to the meritorious terminate when they 
leave your house ; but reward good conduct in them, and encourage it 
in others, by subsequent acts of benevolence adapted to their circum- 
stances. Let it be your resolution, when called upon to describe 
the characters of servants who have quitted your family, to act con- 
scientiously towards all the parties interested, neither aggravating nor 
disguising the truth. And never let any one of those whose qualifica- 
tions are to be mentioned, nor of those who apply for the information, 
find you seduced from your purpose by partiality or by resentment 
Though the act of managing a house may seem at first sight a very 



Si6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

simple affair, there are not many people who can do it well Some 
women do either too much or too little ; and husbands generally dislike 
the worry of over-management almost as much as neglect The great 
art is to hit the happy medium quietly. It is a great point, also, to live 
always in the same manner as regards style, and to have the doth laid 
as carefully when alone as when there is company. When this is the 
case, no wife feels afraid of her husband bringing in an unexpected 
guest ; and it is gratifying to a husband to find a friend of this kind 
received quietly, whereas nothing can be more disagreeable to a 
husband than to see his home thrown into confusion, his wife cross, 
and his servants scrambling to change the things laid on the table, 
and, in short, everything going wrong, simply because he has asked a 
friend to dine without giving a day or two's notice of his intention to 
do so. By judicious management, a wife can always contrive to have 
everything ready at the proper time and place. — Mrs, Parker. 

EDUCATIONAL PRINCIPLES. 

Carry religion into common life, and your life will be rendered useful 
as well as noble. There are many women who listen incredulously to the 
high-toned exhortations of the pulpit : the religious life there depicted 
is much too seraphic, they think, for this plain and prosaic world of 
ours. Show these women that the picture is not a fancy one ; make it a 
reality. Bring religion down from the clouds ; apply it to the infallible 
test of experiment, and, by suffusing your daily actions with holy 
principles, prove that love to God, superiority to worldly pleasures, 
spirituality, holiness, heavenly-mindedness, are something more than 
the stock ideas of sermons. — Caird. 

MORAL COURAGE. 

Have the courage to speak your mind when it is necessary to do so, 
and to hold your tongue when it is better that you should be silent 
Have the courage to speak to a poor friend in a threadbare coat, even 
in the street, and when a rich one is nigh ; the effort is less than many 
take it to be, and the act is worthy a king. Have the courage to 
adhere to a first resolution when you cannot change it for a better, and 
to abandon it at the eleventh hour upon conviction. Have the courage 
to say you hate the * polka,' and prefer an English song to an Italian 
'piece of music,' if such be your taste. Have the courage to wear your 
old garments till you can pay for new ones. Have the courage to 
prefer propriety to fashion— one is but the abuse of the other. — 
W. Jorus^ F.S.A. 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC, 517 



ADVICE TO A YOUNG WIFE, 

Among the minor virtues which tend to cement the bond of conjugal 
affection, the Christian female must not overlook that of personal neat- 
ness and self-respect * Rely not,' says Mr. Jay, * too much on the 
rights of relationship, however intimate the connection may be^ and 
however endearing it ought to be. In preserving and keeping alive 
attachment, you must not absolutely depend upon the impressions that 
awakened it A woman is not to presume on the certainty of homage, 
regardless of an attention to her manners. She is not, as soon as she 
has stepped over the threshold of marriage, to drop the delicacy, the 
decencies, the engaging appearance, by which she has attracted her 
lover. What attraction can there be in negligence, disorder, slattern- 
liness? A disregard of propriety, and especially neatness of apparel, 
is, in a female, a fault that nothing can expiate. Even religion will not 
excuse it There is a greater connection between mental and outward 
purity than some are aware of. A female may be always judged of 
by her dress. The founders of Methodism were accustomed to say that 
cleanliness was next to godliness. I have known a few exceptions to 
this in men — I never knew one in a woman^ 

Perhaps the idea has already been implied, in the remarks on the 
preference that a Wife should entertain for the society of her husband ; 
but it had better be repeated than omitted, or not clearly expressed, 
that it is her duty to render herself conversable. When a man comes 
home, wearied with the labours and harassments of the day, he ought 
to find at home a comfortable fireside, and an intelligent and cheerful 
companion ready to receive and entertain him. That you may be well 
qualified to discharge this pleasing part of conjugal duty, it will be your 
wisdom to keep your attention alive through the day. Endeavour to 
inform your mind on subjects in which you know your husband takes 
an interest. In the course of your reading, mark a passage that you 
think will please him, or one that is not perfectly intelligible to yourself 
at first view, but on which you think he can give you information. 
Shun the real indolence and affected humility of saying, ' Ah ! it is all 
above my understanding. My husband is so learned, it is of no use 
for me to pretend to converse with him.' The same exercise of atten- 
tion, recollection, and energy, which enables a woman to run down 
that incessant string of tattle and nonsense, which is justly the abhor- 
rence of a sensible man, well directed, would abundantly qualify her to 
join him in rational and improving conversation, at least as a hmnble 
learner ; and in that capacity she would neither be contemptible, nor 
disgusting, nor uninteresting in the eyes of a man of sense and 



5i8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, 

benevolence. Most men of that character would esteem it an agree- 
able recreation from severer pursuits, playftiUy to impart the rudiments 
of knowledge to a docile pupil in the person of an admired and beloved 
wife. 

Another duty which a married woman owes to her husband is love to 
home, and such exertions as are likely to render home attractive to 
him likewise. Men, in general, are occupied from home in the pursuits 
of business, or, at least, they are so engaged through the day in the 
office, the shop, or the counting-house, that they see but little of the 
wife and children. It is unspeakably important that a man of business 
should be inclined to spend his hours of leisure in the bosom of his 
family. Hence the duty of the wife to render home, by the winning 
charms of her behaviour, attractive and delightful to her husband, 
derives additional force. Let her consider the numberless temptations 
to vice, to profusion, to idle amusement, with which he is encompassed. 
Let her remember with what various characters the business of his 
station renders him familiar ; of whom some, perhaps, openly deride 
the principles of religion ; others sap them by insidious machinations ; 
others extenuate, by. their wit and talents, the offensiveness of guilt; 
others add to the seducing example of gay wickedness, the fascinations 
of rank and popularity. Is she desirous of his society? would she 
confirm him in domestic habits? would she fortify him against being 
allured into the haunts of luxury, riot, and profaneness ? Let her con- 
duct show that home is dear to herself in his absence, still dearer when 
he is present. Let her unaffected mildness, her ingenuous tenderness, 
display before his mind a forcible contrast to the violence, the artifice, 
the unfeeling selfishness which* he witnesses in his commerce with the 
world. Let the cheerful tranquillity of domestic pleasures stand for- 
ward, to supply the place of trifiing and turbulent festivity abroad. Let 
his house, so far as her endeavours can be effectual, be the abode of 
happiness, and he will surely have little temptation to bewilder himselt 
in seeking for happiness under another roof. 

The regulation of her personal expenses, on a scale conformable 
to her husband's income, is the indispensable duty of a married 
woman. By this it is by no means meant to imply that it is incumbent 
on her to spend to the full extent which the resources of the family 
might warrant, but that she should scrupulously adhere to the rule of 
keeping within these limits. Where persons have a stated and certain 
income, their scale of expenditure is more easily arranged ; but how- 
ever liberal that income may be, it is the part of wisdom, and the only 
security against straits, to allot and apportion it with judicious care to 
the various branches of expenditure; and even of a stated income 
arising from permanent sources, to reserve some portion for unforeseen 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 519 

contingencies. But where the support of the family depends on the 
uncertain results of trade, or on die precarious tenure of a quarterly 
salary, liable to be interrupted or cut off by the illness or death of the 
employed; or by changes in the circumstances, projects, or even 
caprices of the employers, — it is the height of folly not to have a settled 
scale of expenditure, or to sufifer the outlay in any one department to 
exceed its appointed limits, which ought in prudence to be considerably 
within the actual capabilities of a single year. In the arrangement of, 
and adherence to, this prudent scale for the distribution of property, a 
man will be greatly dependent on the discretion and good principles of 
his wife. I would impress on the young married female the duty of 
scrupulously and cheerfully conforming her personal expenses to her 
husband's resources. ' Whose adorning,' said the apostle tq the Chris- 
tian wives, ' let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and 
of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel,' i Pet. iii. 3. * Not,' 
said another, * with broidered hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array,' 
I Tim. ii 9. Thus combining a caution against spending too much 
time or too much money on dress and ornaments, and recommending 
the unexpenisive and incomparably more tasteful as well as excellent 
adornments of meekness, modesty, and good works. It is evident 
from the contrast implied, that finery and profusion in personal attire 
are at variance with all these. 

Surely no well-principled young woman could bear the idea of her 
husband suffering anything hke embarrassment, or even being straitened 
in purposes of benevolence, by her expensive tastes and habits ! It may 
be, that in the house of her father she has been liberally supplied ; per- 
haps a considerable sum placed at her own disposal, for dress and 
pocket-money ; perhaps allowied to purchase what she pleased at her 
father's expense j and it may not have occurred to her that her hus- 
band's resources are more circumscribed and uncertain than those of 
her father. But a hint to the wise is sufficient, and a moment's con- 
sideration will convince her that it would be a most preposterous thing 
for one half of her husband's income to be spent on decking out her 
person ; or in case of the distressing contingency of his being involved 
in difficulty, for half the difficulties to be traced to her lavish personal 
expenditure. 'Oh, no!' she will exclaim; 'one half! no; far be it 
firom me to consume a tenth. I ought to have learned frugality and 
moderation before I was married ; but better late than never. I will 
immediately begin to economize in my personal expenses.' Do you, 
my young friend, adopt and adhere to the wise resolution. Accustom 
yourself, this first year, to economize in a manner to which you have 
not been accustomed. Bring yourself into a habit of seeing fine things 
without desiring to possess them ; of seeing other people in a newer 



520 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

mode or gayer dress than yourself, without wishing to imitate them. Be 
content with such things as you have ; and be more than ever solicitous 
for the embellishments of the mind and the graces of the heart Occupy 
your time and thoughts in the faithful discharge of your new duties, 
and in improving your qualifications for that purpose. Carry on this 
plan steadily for the first year, and it may fairly be predicted that before 
its close you will have become very indifferent to finery, and not 
likely in future to outstep the bounds of prudence in expense either 
of time or money bestowed upon it I believe that a thorough love 
and conscientious adherence to duty, and a prevailing love for fine 
and costly dress, cannot co-exist, especially in a married woman. — The 
Young Wife. 

CHOOSE WISELY. 

Benevolence and prudence may make marriage happy ; but what can 
be expected but disappointment and repentance firom a choice made in 
the immaturity of youth, in the ardour of desire, without judgment, 
without foresight, without inquiry into conformity of opinions, similarity 
of manners, rectitude of judgment, or purity of sentiment 1 Such is the 
common process of marriage. A youth and maiden meeting by chance, 
or brought together by artifice, exchange glances, reciprocate civilities, 
go home and dream of one another ; and having but little to divert 
attention or diversify thought, they find themselves uneasy when they 
are apart, and therefore conclude they shall be happy together. They 
marry, and discover what nothing but voluntary blindness before had 
concealed. They wear out life with altercations, and charge nature 
with cruelty. * Deceive not thyself,' observes Fuller, ' by over-expecting 
happiness in the marriage estate. Look not therein for contentment 
greater than God will give, or creature in this world can receive, namely, 
to be free from all inconveniences. Marriage is not, like the hill of 
OlympuSi wholly cUar^ without clouds ; yea, expect both winds and 
storms sometimes, which, when blown away, the air is the clearer and 
the wholesomer for it Make account of certain cares and troubles 
which will attend thee. Remember the nightingales, which sing only 
some months in the spring, but commonly are silent when they have 
hatched their eggs, as if their mirth were turned into care for their 
young ones. Yet all the molestations of marriage are abundantly 
recompensed with other comforts which God bestoweth on them who 
make a wise choice of a wife.' — Dr. Johnson. 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 521 



EMOTIONS OF ATTRACTION AND REPULSION. 

Most young women of respectable parentage and education believe 
that they love virtue and hate vice. But have they clearly ascertained 
what virtue and vice are ? Have they examined the meaning of these 
two important words by the light of the world, or by the light of divine 
truth ? Have they listened to the plausible reasoning of what is called 
society; where things are of^en spoken of by false names, and where 
vulgar vice is distinguished from that which is sanctioned by good 
breeding ? Or have they gone directly to the eternal and immutable prin- 
ciples of good and evil, as explained in the Bible, which they profess to 
believe ? have they by this test tried all their favourite habits, their 
sweet weaknesses, their darling idols ? and have they been willing to 
abide the result of this test ; to love whatever approaches that standard 
of moral excellence, and to renounce whatever is offensive to the pure 
eye of Omniscience ? Now, when we reflect that all this must be done 
before we can safely give ourselves up either to love or hate, we shall 
probably cease to think that our great duty is so easily performed. 

There is, perhaps, no subject on which young women are apt to 
make so many and such fatal mistakes as in tlie regulation of their 
emotions of attraction and repulsion ; and chiefly for this reason, 
because there is a popular notion prevailing amongst them, that it is 
exceedingly becoming to act from the impulse of the moment ; to be 
what they call * the creatures of feeling ;' or, in other words, to exclude 
the high attribute of reason from those very emotions which are given 
them, especially to serve the most exalted purposes. 'It is a cold 
philosophy,' they say, *to calculate before you feel;* and thus they 
choose to act f];om impulse rather than from principle. 

In order to make the best use of time, we must lay out beforehand 
the exact amount proportioned to every occupation in which we expect 
to engage. Casualties will perpetually occur demanding an additional 
allowance, and something must consequently be given up in exchange ; 
but still our calculations may generally be made with a degree of 
certainty which leaves no excuse for our being habitually at a loss what 
to do. Accustom yourself every morning to say what you are intending 
to do j and every night, with equal faithfulness, to say what you have 
actually done during the day. If you And any material diflerence 
between what you have intended and what you have achieved, try to 
proportion them better, and the next day, either lay out for yourself, or, 
what is far better, endeavour to accomplish more. 

You should always be able to say what you are doing, and not 
merely what you are going to do. * I am going to be so busy — I am 
going to get to my work — I am going to prepare for my journey — I am 



S22 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

going to learn Italian — I am going to visit a poor neighbour.' These, 
and ten thousand other 'goings' with the addition of the word 'just' 
before them, are words which form a network of delusions by which 
hundreds of well-intentioned young persons are completely entangled. 
' I am just going to do this or that good work,' sounds so much like 
' I am really doing it/ that the conscience is satisfied for the moment ; 
yet how vast is the difference between these two expressions when habit 
has fixed them upon the character ! To the same class of persons who 
habitually say, ' I am going,' rather than ' I am doing/ belong those 
who seldom know what they really are about ; who, coming into a room 
for a particular purpose, and finding a book there by chance, open it, 
and sit down to read for half an hour or an hour, beUeving all the while 
that they are going to do the thing they first intended ; or who, setting 
out to walk for the benefit of their health, drop in upon a pleasant 
acquaintance by the way, still thinking they are going to walk, until 
the time for doing so has expired, when they return home, with cold 
feet and aching heads, half fancying that they have really walked, and 
disappointed that exercise has produced no better effect 

Young persons are often beguiled into the dangerous habit of being 
a little too late, by the apparent unimportance of each particular trans- 
gression of the kind during the season of youth. If, for instance, they 
are a little too late for breakfast, the matron of the family commences 
operations without them, and they can easily gain time upon some of 
the senior members. At the dinner-hour it is the same. They have 
only to calculate upon a few impatient words and a few angry looks ; 
and it is not the least unfavourable feature of their case, that to such 
looks and words they become so accustomed as scarcely to heed them, 
nor is it often that they bring any more serious consequences upon 
themselves by their delay, because the young are generally so kindly 
assisted and cared for by their friends, that by a long, and patient, and 
often-repeated process of helping, urging, and entreating, they are, for 
the most part, got ready for every important occasion, or, in other 
words, are seldom left behind. 

The cleverness of the hand, though almost entirely neglected in 
modem education, except as relates to practice on the keys of the 
piano, is a qualification which, while it takes nothing away from the 
charm of feminine delicacy, imparts the additional charm of perpetual 
cheerfulness, added to a capability of general usefulness, and a con- 
sequent readiness for action whenever occasion may require our services. 
If I were asked which of the three qualities— cleverness, learning, or 
knowledge — was most valuable in a woman, and supposing all to have 
an equal accompaniment of good sense, good feeling, and good 
principle^ I believe I should answer in favour of the first, provided the 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 523 

situation of the woman was in the middle rank of life, and she could 
not enjoy more than one of these valuable recommendations. In order 
to convey a more correct idea of my meaning when I speak of clever- 
ness, I will simply add, that a woman possessed of this qualification is 
seldom at a loss what to do ; seldom gives wrong orders ; seldom mis- 
takes the right means of producing the end she desires ; seldom spoils, 
or wastes, or mismanages the works she undertakes ; never hurries to 
and fro in a state of confusion, not knowing what is best to be done 
first ; and never 3delds to her own feelings, so as to incapacitate her 
from the service of others, at any critical moment when her assistance 
may be most needed. Nor are her reconmiendations only of a negative 
kind. Her habitual self-possession is a positive good ; her coolness, 
her promptitude, her power to adapt herself to circumstances, all give 
worth and dignity to her character in the estimation of others, while 
they afford peace and satisfaction to her own mind. — Mrs, Ellis. 

ECONOMIZE YOUR TIME. 

« 

Jeremy Bentham was a great economist of time. He knew the value 
of minutes. The disposal of his hours, both of labour and of repose, was 
a matter of systematic arrangement ; and the arrangement was deter- 
mined on the principle that it is a calamity to lose the smallest portion 
of time. He did not deem it sufficient to provide against the loss of 
a day or an hour ; he took effectual means to prevent the occurrence of 
any such calamity to him : but he did more, he was careful to provide 
against the loss even of a single minute ; and there is not on record any 
example of a human being who lived more habitually imder the practical 
consciousness that his days are numbered, and that ' the night cometh 
in which no man can work.' Go thou and do likewise. 

Modus Operandi, — Moderation in eating and drinking ; short hours 
of labour and study — i.e. do not overwork; regularity in exercise, 
recreation, and rest ; cleanliness, by constant use of the bath ; equa- 
nimity of temper, and equality of temperature, as much as possible, 
are the great essentials to that which surpasses all wealth — health of 
mind and body. 'Above all things be on your guard against your 
temper. It is an enemy that will accompany you everywhere to the last 
hour of your life. If you listen to it, it will frustrate all your designs. 
It will make you lose the most important opportunities, and will inspire 
you with the inclinations and aversions of a child, to the prejudice of 
your gravest interests. Temper causes the greatest affairs to be decided 
by the most paltry reasons ; it obscures every talent, paralyses every 
energy, and renders its victims unequal, weak, vile, and insupportable.' 
— Fenelon. 



'524 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



EARLY INFLUENCE. 

At his first aptness the maternal love 

Those rudiments of wisdom did improve ; 

The tender age was pliant to command ; 

Like wax it yielded to the forming hand : 

True to the artificer, the laboured mind. 

With ease, was pious, generous, just, and kind : 

Soft for impression firom the first prepared. 

Till virtue, withiong exercise, grew hard ; 

With every act confirmed, and made at last 

So durable as not to be effaced. 

It turned to habit : and firom vices firee, 

Goodness resolved into necessity. — Drydm* 

CORPORAL PUNISHMENT. 

Corporal punishment might soon be suppressed, did parents make 
it their constant care to render it unnecessary. Begin with your child 
in the cradle, and govern him by gentle methods. Do not accustom 
him to be shaken or slapped every hour of the day. You can so train 
him that violence will never be necessary. It is possible to guide with 
a look, reward with a smile, and punish with a frown. Forbear 
threatening. It is probably even worse for a child's moral nature to be 
accustomed to constant threats of the rod, than to be occasionally 
punished with it. You are to excite a fear of doing wrong, not a fear 
of punishment The former motive strengthens good principles; the 
latter, in its excess, always debilitates the character. Great harm is 
often done by punishing a child in presence of others. If whipping 
must be done, let it take place with the utmost privacy. This principle 
should be carried out in all methods of correction. Be sure a child 
understands your command before you rebuke him for disobedience. — 
Cobbitt. 

HUMAN UFE. 

Pliny has compared a river to human life. I have never read the 
passage in his works, but I have been a hundred times struck with the 
analogy, particularly amidst mountain scenery. The river, small and 
clear in its origin, gushes forth from rocks, falls into deep gien% and 
wantons and meanders through a wild and picturesque country, nonridi- 
ing only the uncultivated tree or flower by its dew or spray. In diis, 
its state of infancy and youth, it may be compared to the human mind. 



HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 525 

in which fancy and strength of imagination are predominant — ^it is more 
beautiful than useful When the different rills or torrents join, and 
descend into the plain, it becomes slow and stately in its movements ; 
it is applied to move machinery, to irrigate meadows, and to bear upon 
its bosom the stately barge ; in this mature state, it is deep, strong, and 
useful As it flows on towards the sea, it loses its force and its motion, 
and at last, as it were, becomes lost and mingled with the mighty abyss 
of waters. 

One might pursue the metaphor still further and say, that in its 
origin, its thundering and foam, when it carries down clay from the 
bank and becomes impure, it resembles the youthful mind affected by 
dangerous passions. And the influence of a lake in calming and clear- 
ing the turbid water may be compared to the effect of reason in more 
mature life, when the tranquil, deep, cool, and unimpassioned mind is 
freed from its fever, its troubles, bubbles, noise, and foam. And, above 
all, the sources of a river, which may be considered as belonging to the 
atmosphere, and its termination in the ocean, may be regarded as 
imaging the divine origin of the human mind, and its being ultimately 
returned to, and lost in, the Infinite and Eternal Intelligence from which 
it originally sprung. — Sir Humphry Davy. 

love! 

Love, shall I read thy dream ? oh ! is it not 
All of some sheltering wood-embosomed spot— 

A bower for thee and thine ? 
Yes I lone and lowly is that home, yet there 
Something of heaven in the transparent air 
Makes every flower divine ! 

Something that mellows and that glorifies. 
Breathes o'er it ever from the tender skies, 

As o'er some blessed isle, 
E'en like the soft and spiritual glow 
Kindling rich woods, whereon the ethereal bow 

Sleeps lovingly awhile. 

Then by the hearth shall many a glorious page. 
From mind to mind the immortal heritage, 

For thee its treasures pour ; 
O'er music's voice at vesper hours be heard, 
Or dearer interchange of playful word. 

Affection's household love. 



526 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

And the rich unison of mingled prayer. 
The melody of hearts in heavenly air, 

Thence duly should arise ; 
Lifting th' eternal hope, the adoring breath 
Of spirits not to be disjoin'd by death. 

Up to the starry skies 1 — Hemans. 

PETTY EVILS. 

Remember that life is not entirely made up of great evils, or heavy 
trials, but that the perpetual recurrence of petty evils and small trials 
is the ordinary and appointed exercise of Christian graces. To bear 
with the feelings of those about us, with their infirmities, their bad judg- 
ments, their ill-breeding, their perverse tempers ; to endure neglect 
where we feel we have deserved attention, and ingratitude where we 
expected thanks; to bear with the company of disagreeable people, 
whom Providence has placed in our way, and whom He has, perhaps, 
provided on purpose for the trial of our virtue, — ^these are the best 
exercise, and the better because not chosen by ourselves. To bear 
with vexations in business, with disappointments in our expectations, 
with interruptions in our retirement, with folly, intrusion, disturbance ; 
in short, with whatever opposes our will and contradicts our humour, — 
this habitual acquiescence appears to be the very essence of self-denial. 
These constant, inevitable, but inferior evils, properly improved, furnish 
a good moral discipline, and might well, in the days of ignorance, have 
superseded pilgrimage and penance. — Hannah More, 

6WEET MANNERS, 

There are a thousand engaging ways, which every person may put on 
without running the risk of being deemed either affected or foppisL 
The sweet smile, the quiet cordial bow, the earnest movement in 
addressing a friend, or more especially a stranger who may be recom- 
mended to us, the graceful attention which is so captivating when 
united with self-possession,— 'these will ensure us the good regards of 
aU. There is a certain softness of manner which should be cultivated, 
and which, in either man or woman, adds a charm that is even more 
irresistible than beauty. — W. Jones^ F,S.A. 

AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION* 

I never lose any time. I do not think that lost which is spent in 
amusement or recreation, some time every day ; but always be in the 



If/NTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 527 

habit of being employed. Never err the least in truth. Never say an 
ill thing of a. person when thou canst say a good thing of her; not 
only speak charitably, but feel so. Never be irritable or unkind to 
anybody. Never indulge thyself in luxuries that are not necessaries. 
Do all things with consideration; and when thy path to act right is 
most difficult, feel confident in that power alone which is able to assist 
thee, and exert thy own powers as far as they go. — Mrs. EUzaietA Fry. 



If we engage into a large acquaintance and various familiarities, we 
set open our gates to the invaders of most of our time ; we expose our 
life to a quotidian ague of frigid impertinences, which would make a 
wise woman tremble to think of — Cowley. 

lUPORTANT. 

IVhm your child is sent to school, he careful io stipulate thai a chair be 
provided for it to sit upon, instead of that instrument of torture, a form. 
More young girls suffer from weakness in their baeks from this cause than 
any other; and from the neglect of a little care in early life being bestowed 
on this subject, they are frequently made miserable for the remainder of ' 
their days. If all mothers insist upon this, forms will be abolislied, and 
the next generation will bless you. 



PRAYER. 



THE following extracts, being a few quotations from the woib oi 
good men, are here noted down as a guide to piaycr. Without it 
we are nothing, with it we are mighty. It is a gloiious state to be in 
harmony with God ; and by prayer, we assuredly learn His will, and 
act according to His teaching : — 

When is the time for prayer? — 
With the first beams that light the morning sky, 
Ere for the toils of day thou dost prepare, 

Lift up thy thoughts on high : 
Commend thy loved ones to His watchful caie : — 

Mom is the time for prayer t 

And in the noontide hour, 
If worn by toil, or by sad cares opprest. 
Then unto God thy spirit's sorrow pour. 

And He will give you rest 
Thy voice shall reach Him through the fields of air :—' 

Noon is the time for prayer 1 

When the bright sun hath set— 
Whilst yet eve's glowing coloura deck the skies, — 
When with the loved, at home, again thou'st me^ 

Then let thy praise arise 
For those who in thy joys and sorrows share >— 

Eve is the time for prayer 1 

And when the stare come forth — 
When to the trusting heart sweet hopes are given, 
And the deep stillness of the hour gives birth 

To pure bright dreams of heaven, — 
Kneel to thy God— ask strength, life's ills to bear : — 

Night is the time for piayei 1 



GUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 529 

When is the time for prayer? 
In every hour, while life is spared to thee — 
In crowds or solitudes, in joy or care — 

Thy thoughts should heavenward flee. 
At home — at mom and eve — ^with loved ones there, 

Bend thou the knee of prayer 1 — Burnet. 

ACCEPTED PRAYER IS ANSWERED PRAYER. 

Prayer is answered when it is accepted, though there be no other 
effect of it visible. Prayer is not in vain, if the person be accepted, 
and the service approved. Is it nothing to be admitted to such sweet 
intimate commimion with God in such a familiar way ; to speak to Him 
as a man to his friend, as a child to his father? Suppose you should 
reap no other benefit from prayer, is not here as much as will amoimt 
to an answer? If you will not measure the return of your prayers by 
lower inferior advantages, those are the most blessed returns. It should 
be more desirable in your account to please Him, than to be happy 
yourselves. His glory should be more valuable than your salvation, or 
all the means that tend to it And such society with Him should be 
esteemed the first-fruits of heaven. Yet these are the privileges of every 
accepted prayer, and therefore, if it be accepted, though it obtain 
nothing more, it is abundantly answered. — Clarkson. 

'always to pray, and not to faint.' — (Luke xviii. i.) 

Prayer may be unintermitted, and yet be faint This may flow from 
several causes : from physical depression, from mental distraction, from 
inability or indifference. One prevalent cause is a doubt of success 
produced by a delay in answering. Christ teaches a persevering urgency 
by the parable of the imjust judge, who was stirred to aid the widow's 
cause simply by her 'continual coming.' For if such an one can be 
moved by importunateness, much more that God of grace, who is more 
ready to give than we to ask, and never can fail His chosen ! 

* O merciful Lord Christ, who art the just judge of the earth, help 
me to maintain towards Thee that importunateness of prayer, which 
Thou Thyself commandest j and cause me so to pray, and not to faint, 
that in me Thou findest faith when Thou comest, to the praise of Thy 
sustaining grace.' — Lord Kinioch. 



2 L 



530 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



EXALTED PilSSION OF PRAYER. 

The prayer of the truly Christian man is generally offered up with the 
tenderest and most exalted passion ; and a holy pleasure mingles itself 
in every part of his office ; his petitions and praises^ his confessions, 
deprecations, and confidences, are all of them expressions of warm and 
delightful passions. And how can we well conceive it otherwise? 
Must not those praises and magnificats be fiill of joy and transport, 
which flow firom a fiill assurance of the divine favour, from a long ex- 
perience of His love, and from the glorious prospect of a blessed 
eternity? Can those deprecations and confidences want a heavenly 
calm and tranquillity of spirit, which rest upon the mediation of Jesus, 
the promises of an inunutable God, and the pledge of His Spirit ? Can 
those confessions want contrition, that have all the tenderness that holy 
zeal and the humblest reflections can inspire them with? which are 
poured forth by a soul enlightened, purified, strong in the faith, rooted 
and grounded in love; by a soul consequently that has the liveliest 
sense of the deformity and danger of sin, of the beauty and pleasure of 
holiness, of the' infinite goodness of God, and of that love of Christ that 
passeth knowledge ? Can those petitions want desire and flame, which' 
are offered up by a soul that hungers and thirsts after righteousness, that 
counts all things but dung and dross in comparison of Jesus, that pants 
after God, that longs to be dissolved and to be with Christ ? 

Tis true, weight and dignity of matter, gravity and significancy of 
expression, are the character most conspicuous in public offices, in the 
best and most ancient prayers, and particularly in the Lord's prayer. 
We find in them few or no figures of speech, no vehemence of expres- 
sion. But it is true too, that the devotion of a soul disengaged, as it 
were, from the body, retired from the world, collected within itself 
raised by daily contemplation and accustomed to converse with Heaven, 
flows naturally and easily. Those great ideas, which such a prayer as 
that of our Lord's composure present to the mind, inflame the desire, 
awaken all the passions of the holy m^n, without any labour of imagina- 
tion or artifice of words. — Dr. Richard Lucas^ 



FAITH. 



Faith in God and His doings is true nobility. Tis a great and 
difficult lesson, doubtless, to see God in all things ; but, rest assured, if 
we have a simple trust in Him, He never foigets us. And although at 



GUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 531 



times OUT way may be dark and drear, rest assured ifs only the shadow 
which, passing away, will reveal in more intense splendour the glory of 
His love. The few following and brief extracts will serve to build up 
the chief joy of our pilgrimage, which is peace in believing : — 



FAITH AND HEAVEN. 



Marvel not ; for we know of heaven 
But by iht faith we realize on earth. 

^T. F. TriOner. 



FAITH IN CHRIST. 

Whatever 
1 may have been, or am, resteth between 
Heaven and myself I shall not choose a mortal 
To be my mediator. ''^Byron, 

TASTELESS FAFIH. 

Tasteless faith 
Dishonours where it worships. Heaven disdains 
Obedience from the blind. — Aaron Hill. 

THE STAFF OF FAITH. 

Your God, who has given you so many promises, you do not trust ; 
you make Him a liar, and worthy of no honour. The devil, who is a 
liar, finds more faith in you than God does, who is Himself the Truth, 
and His word, truth. Give up doubting, and believe. If you lean for 
support on the stafif of faith, you will walk without danger. The way is 
sometimes dark ; but submit to it in humility and faith, and pray : 
' My Lord and my God, lay on me what Thou wilt, only give me faidL* 
Luther says, ' Faith is courage in the heart, that sees everything to be 
good that God does.' If the road is dark, faith kindles a light; if it is 
rough and stony, faith finds a way through it In going through the 
wilderness, faith is the rod of Moses, by which he brought water from 
the hard rock. If you are passing through a Red Sea of trouble, the 
magic rod of faith will divide the waves that threaten you, and you will 
pass through unhurt.' — Frederic Amdt. 

FAITH AND HUMILITY. 

When thou canst not bring thy love to God accompanied with 



532 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

many and great offerings, bring to Him what thou bast and mayest 
with such good will, and holy desires and wishes, that He may cheer 
fully accept thy godly strnc^-^Johann Amdt, 

FAITH, ITS POWER. 

St John spoke of faith as the instrument of the conquest over the 
world — ^as the spring which sets in motion our efforts to be virtuous, 
which quickens their vigour and directs their aim. In this position, 
the apostle has not done what his interpreters are prone to do ; he has 
neither perplexed what is distinct, nor united what is irrelative. Faith, 
exercised on the evidence and laws of religion, sets before you the 
beauty of holiness, the deformity of sin, the chorus of God's mercy, and 
the terrors of His wrath. It lays open to us the excellence of heavenly 
joys, which we ought to pursue ; the hollowness of earthly gratifications, 
which we ought to abandon ; the severity of hell-torments, which we 
ought to shun. It represents to you the various offices of Christ, and 
the relation severally resulting from them. If He be our teacher, we 
should be careful to follow His instructions. If He be our redeemer, 
we should be anxious not to forfeit our portion in the blessings of re- 
demption. If He be our judge, we should be indefatigable to secure 
His approbation. — Dr, Samuel Parr. 



HOPE. 

Hope is one of the angels of our life, and a most blessed one too. 
Hope has golden wings, and always bears us to a more congenial dime. 
It smooths the rugged parts of our pilgrimage, and fills us with a joy that 
few things else could do. It adapts itself to all circumstances, and so 
gives courage to dare and to do, shedding a radiance over all our attempts, 
and thus lighting up our struggles, our misfortunes, otu: very being. 

The few extracts that follow on this subject, I trust may be useful, 

and develope in the mind a hope that cannot be deceived : — 

» 

HOPE, THE FORETASTE OF GOOD THINGS TO COME. 

Our actual enjoyments are so few and transient, that we should be 
very miserable beings were we not endowed with this passion, which 
gives us a taste of those good things that may possibly come into our 
possession. Hope quickens all the still parts of life, and keeps the 
mind awake in her most remiss and indolent hours. It gives habitual 



GUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 533 

serenity and good humour. It is a kind of vital heat in the soul, that 
cheers and gladdens. It makes pain easy and labour pleasant. — Addison, 

THE HAPPIEST LIFE IS FULL OF HOPE. 

No kind of life is so happy as that which is so full of hope, especially 
when the hope is well-founded, and when the object of it is of an 
exalted kind, and in its nature proper to make the person happy who 
enjoys it. This proposition must be very evident to those who con- 
sider how few are the present enjoyments of the most happy, and how 
insufficient to give entire satisfaction and acquiescence. — Addisoiu 

HOPE, ITS EFFICACY. 

Beside the several advantages which arise from hope, there is one 
which is none of the least, and that is, its great efficacy in preserving us 
from setting too high a value on present enjoyments. The saying of 
Caesar is very well known. When he had given away all his estate in 
gratuities amongst his friends, one of them asked what he had left for 
himself; to which that great man replied, 'Hope.' His natural 
magnanimity hindered him from prizing what he was certainly possessed 
of, and turned all his thoughts upon something more valuable that he 
had in view. — Addison, 

HOPE SWEETENS LIFE. 

I have set the Lord always before me. Therefore my heart is glad, 
and my glory rejoiceth ; my flesh also shall rest in hope : for Thou wilt 
not leave my soul in hell ; neither wilt Thou suffer Thine Holy One to 
see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life : in Thy presence 
is fulness of joy ; at Thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. — 
Ps. xvi 

HOPE LIFTS UP THE HEAD. 

Hope lifts up the head, and looks up to the redemption and salva- 
tion Uiat is to come in another world in its fulness and perfection. 
Hope doth three things : it assures good things to come ; it disposes us 
for them ; it waits for them unto the tn^— Edward FophilL 

HOPE — RELIGIOUS. 

* It is good that a man should both hope, and quifetly wait for the 
salvation of the Lord' (Lam. iii.). Hope is a beautiful meteor: like 



534 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 

the rainbow, it is not only lovely, because of its seven lich and radiant 
stripes, it is the memorial of a covenant between man and his Maker, 
telling us we were bom for immortality, destined, unless we sepulchre 
our greatness, to the highest honour and noblest happiness. 

Hope proves man deathless ; — ^it is the struggle of the soul breaking 
loose from what is perishable, and attesting her etemi^; and when the 
eye of the mind is turned upon Christ, delivered for our offences and 
raised again for our justification, the imsubstantial and deceitful cha- 
racter is taken away from hope. Hope is one of the prime pieces of 
that armour of proof in which the believer is arrayed ; for Paul teUs us 
to take for an helmet the hope of salvation. It is not good that a man 
hope for wealth, since ' riches profit not in the day of wrath / and it is 
not good that we hope for human honours, since the mean and the 
mighty go down to the same burial But it is good that he hope for 
salvation. The meteor then gathers like a golden halo round his head ; 
and as he presses forward in the batde-time, no weapon of the evil one 
can pierce through that helmet It is good, then, that he hope ; it is 
good, also, that he quiedy wait There is much promised in the Scrip- 
ture to the waiting upon God. Men wish an immediate answer to 
prayer, and think themselves forgotten unless the reply be instantaneous. 
It is a great mistake. The delay is often part, and a great part, of the 
answer. It exercises faith, and hope, and patience ; and what better 
thing can be done for us than strengthening those graces, to whose 
growth shall be proportioned the splendours of immortality ? It is good, 
then, that ye wait ' They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their 
strength ; they shall mount up with wings as eagles ; they shall run, and 
not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint' — Rev, Henry 
MdvUk. 

COMFORT IN HOPE. 

Nothing can compensate for the loss of hope, it entirely changes the 
character. ' How can I work ? how can I be happy,' said a great but 
miserable thinker, 'when I have lost all hope ?' Hope is like the sun, 
which, as we journey towards it, casts the shadow of our burden behind 
us. — Samuel Smiles. 



CHARITY. 

Pure in her aim, and in her temper mild, 
Her wisdom seems the weakness of a child : 
She makes excuses where she might condemn ; 
Reviled by those that hate her, prays for them. 



GUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 535 

Suspicion lurks not in her artless breast ; 

The worse suggested, she believes the best ; 

Not soon provok'd, however stung and teas*d ; 

And if perhaps made angry, soon appeas'd : 

She rather waves than will dispute her right, 

And injured, makes forgiveness her delight — Cowper, 

Oh I teach us, yet unspoil'd by wealth. 

That secret race, between the extremes to move, 

Of mad good-nature, and of mean self-love. — Pope. 

Soft-e/d pity and forgiveness bland, 

And melting charity with open hand; 

And mercy stretching out ere want can speak, 

To wipe the tear which stains affliction's cheek. 

— Hannah More, 

Her hand, the agent of her heart. — Shakspeare. 

* Earth has nothing more tender than a woman's heart, when it U 
the abode of piety/ — Luther, 

Oh, Charity ! our helpless nature's pride. 
Thou friend to him who knows no friend beside, 
Is there in morning's breath, or the sweet gale 
That steals o'er the tired pilgrim of the vale, 
Cheering with fragrance fresh his wearied frame, 
Aught like the influence of thy holy frame ? 
Is aught in all the beauties that adorn 
The azure heaven, or purple lights of mom — 
Is aught so fair in evening's lingering gleam. 
As from thine eye the meek but pensive beam. 
That falls like saddest moonlight on the hill 
And distant woods, when the wide world is still ? 
Thine are the ample views that, unconfined. 
Stretch to the utmost walks of human kind ; 
Thine is the spirit, that, with widest plan. 
Brother to brother binds, and man to man. 

— William Lisle Bowles, 

The greatest object in the universe is a Christian struggling with ad- 
versity; yet there is still a greater — the one who comes to relieve it ! — 
a Goldsmith. 



536 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 



L'ENVOI. 

Take up tfay burden, ever forward pressing. 
Fight thy way onward, fearless day by day ; 
The steady heart, the untifd hand possessing; — 
The stars of faith and hope to light the way. 
Let not the lonely soul, still earthward given, 
Sigh o'er its broken reeds, its gods laid low ; 
Better kneel down and pray, till breath from heaven 
Shall waft its fragrance o'er the poor sad brow. 

Take up thy burden I 

Cease from repining if the winter hours 
Are soon dispelled by sunbeams of the spring ; — 
If chilling gales give place to summer flowers, 
And glad birds mount to heaven on joyous wing; 
Why should thy head hang down, and heart be weary? 
The heart that smiles on them, to thee shall come ; 
What though the wayside of the world be dreary. 
If safe at last it brings thee to thy home. 

Cease from repining. 

Ever in heaven 1 when this life is closing ; 

The world gone by — the strife and struggle o'er — 

Pleasures and pains alike forgot, reposing, 

Nothing to ruffle or to trouble more. 

When guardian angels, upon noiseless pinions, 

Thy spirit wait to bear o'er life's dark sea. 

To the far radiance of the soul's dominions, — 

Nothing to stand between thy God and thee ! 

Ever in heaven ! 



INDEX. 



Apiei Pudding, sat 

Aiich Bone of Beef, u^ ^^i , 

Soup, 65. 
Alderman 1 Pudding, 187. 
Aldenhol Pudding, 313. 
Alexandra Pudding, 33& 
Alice Pudding, 367, 314. 
Alleriee. Frt.3, 35. 
Almond and Bread Pudding, 



i la Rojide, 338. 

AmbM Pudding, 95, 183, 133, 

307- 
American Blancmange. 39a, 



Sauoe, 443. 

Amusement and Retreation, 

Anchovy Toast, 433. 

Sauce, 443. 

Anna's Pudding, 300> 

Apple and Almond Pudding. 

Baked, 399. 
— '-^ and Bread FNiddiug, 350. 
Charlotte, 270, 301, 331, 

395:. 

Cieam, 396. 

and Currant Pudding, 67. 

and Ciulaid Pancake, 

293- 
Dumplings, Bt, 91, (05, 

374. 390. 39". "9* 309- 
Fritten. 33, 55, 95. 397, 



Apple Sauce, 81, 443, 

Snow, 354- 

Soufflie, 34a. 

Applei, Buttered, aaS. 

and Rice, 363. 

Stewed, 36, 424. 

Apricot Preserve, ^&i. 
Arrowroot Blonctnange, 94, 

Pudding, Boiled. 180, 361. 

Artichoke Bottom, 436- 



Aiparagus, 1B7, 005. 

Omelet. 191, 

Pudding, 183, 400. 

Sauce, 444. 

Asthma, 493. 

Aunt Ameha's Pudding, 178. 
Autumnal Broth, 334. 
Bacon and Beans, Boiled, 303. 

and Eggs, Fried. 430. 

Baked Bailer Pudding, with 

Bakewell Pudding, 98, 177. 

Bandoline for the Hair, 483. 
Borle; Broth, 89. 
Baroness Pudding, 335. 
Bath Pudding, 79. 
Bathing, 4S9. 
Batter and Orange Uaitna- 

lade, 113. 

for Fritters, 37a 

Pancakes, 343. 

■ Pudding. 43, 46, 101. 103, 

133, 139, r77, iB«, 396. 
Bechamel Sauce, 444. 
Beef. Boiled, 336. 353. 

Boiled Round of, 43. 

Bailed Ailch Bone of, 65. 

Bouilli, 360. 

Breslau of, 314. 

Briaket of, I3i, 196, 156, 



Beef. FVicaiee of. 115. 

Hashed, 336, 35 r, 373. 

Heart, Roast. 37, 146. 

Kidneys, 146. 

Loin en, Bt^ed, 78. 

i. la Mode. 103. 153, 300. 

and Mutton Pie, 56. 

Olives, r97, 391. 

Ribs, Boned and Rolled, 



61.76. 



^ 71. 



Rolled, 88. 

Soup. ro4, 107, 369. 

Tongue, Roast, 66. 

Beefsteak. 385. 

and K idney Pudding, 333, 



-Pudt 



r 



330. 3=9. 3M. 



. ■ Staffordshire, 36. 

Beetroot and Onion, 337. 

Salad, 376, 439. 

Benton Sauce, 444. 
Biscuits aux Avellines. 311. 

k la Canelle, r63. 

i. la Creme, 354. 

D'Amandei. 59. 

aux Marronj, 83, 

Plain, Crisp, 464. 

de Savoie, 83, 

SoufB*5. 163. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 
163. 

Black entrant Jelly, 333. 
Blancmange, 143, lEi, 335, 

387. 418. 
Bleeding, to Stop, 494. 
Bcenf ft la Flammanade, 133. 

Royale, 93, 139, 

Boiling, Hint) on, ao. 
Boils. 493- 

Boots and Slippeis, 48 1. 
Bordeaux Cake, 373. 
Bottled Fruit, 461. 
Bouillon, 130. 



Bnases, How to a 



1. 473- 



538 



INDEX. 



Bread and Butter Pudding, 68, 

80, 94. 134. 173. 305- 

^ Pudding, 103, 002, 

• and Butter and Anchovy, 

433. 

and Ginger Pudding, 118. 

Hasty Pudding, 175. 

Sauce, 32, 444. 

Breakfasts, January to De- 
cember, 425, 436. 

Breast of Lamb, Grilled, 183. 

with Peas, 184. 

Rolled with a Ragout, 

185. 

Breast of Mutton, zoa 

— Remains of, 101. 

k la St. Menhould, z88. 

Breast of Veal, x6o. 
Brighton Pudding, 172. 
Brill, Boiled, 247. 
Broccoli, 31, 140. 

— How to boU, 435, 
Broiled Bones, 432. 
Broiling, 21. 

Brose, Scotch, 41. 
Broth, Restorative. 73. 
Brown Bread Soup, 198. 
Brown Minced V^, 176, 257. 
Bruises, 494. 

Brunswick Pudding, 245. 
Brussels Sprouts, 30, 38, 145. 
Bubble and Squeak. 89, 305. 
Bullock's Heart, 66. 
— - Remainder of, 67. 
Bums, 492. 
Buttered Soles, 422. 
Butter for do., 385. 
Buttermilk Curd Pudding, 174. 

Cabbage, 148, 156, 227. 

Red, How to Pickle, 454. 

•^— Soup, 259. 

Cabinet Ptidding, 30, 71, 97, 

140, 158, 191. 
Cake, 465. 

Cakes, The Making of, 461-4. 
Calfs Foot Jelly, 466. 
Calfs Head, .Boned, 122, 

124. 

— Hashed, 14a 

Heart, 214, 285. 

Liver, Fried, and Bacon, 

340. 
^— Liver, k la Mode, 262. 

Head Soup, 45. 

Tongue and Brains, 159. 

Camphor Julep, 489. 
Canary Pudding, 174. 
Candied Fruits, 461. 
Canton Pudding, 269. 
Caper Sauce, 127, 399, 444-45. 
Capon, k la Duchesse, 159. 

— Roast, 386. 

— ^ vnth Rice, 139. 
Carminative Mixture. 49a 

arp, 251 ; Broiled, 348 ; 

Stuffed, 350. 
Carrot and Onion Soup, 133. 



Carrot Pudding, 159, 170, 257, 

306. 

Soup, 266, 299. 

Carrots, 248, 436. 

How to Boil, 43$. 

Casserole of Beef, 207. 
Cast-iron, How to Clean, 475. 
Castle Pudding, 171. 
Castor Oil Pomade, 484. 
Cauliflower, 159, 201, 244, 249, 

400. 
Celery Sauce, 34. 43. 
ooup, 166, 206, 

— Stewed, 40. 
Celts Pudding, 299. 
Cement for Broken China, 473, 

Cerises Grosdllees, 222. 
Champagne, k la Minute, 458. 
Chantilly Soup, 150. 
Chapped Hands, 48a 

Lips, 48a 

Charity, 534. 

Charles Douglas Pudding, 325. 

Charlotte Russe, 383. 

Pudding, 421. 

Cheese, 371. 

— Damson, 467. 
Fondu, 408. 

— Roast. 38. 

Stewed, 432. 

Cheesecakes, 128, Z45, 388. 
Cheshire Pork Pie, 315. 
Cheny Brandy, 458. 

feUy, 466. 

Pudding, 184. 

Sauce, 445. 

Chestnut Sauce, 445. 

Soup, 366. 

Chestnuts, 59. 
Chicken Broth, 133. 
Curry, 73. 

— Curried, 266. 

Gravy Soup, 257. 

Pie, 332. 

Pudding, 170, 215. 

Salad, 439. 

Souffle, 315. 

Soup, 3x8. 

Chilblains, 490. 493. 
Chocolate Cream, Iced, 355. 

356. 
Choose Wisely, 520. 
Chops, with Cucumber Sauce, 

8a 
Chowder, zz8. 

Christmas Pudding, 351, 364. 
Chump of Veal, 144. 
Cintra Fritters, 304. 
Circumspection, 514. 
Citron Macaroons, 289L 

Pudding, 334- 

Cock-a-leekie, 42, 232. 
Cockroaches, How to Kill, 476. 
Cocoa-nut Cake, 372. 
Macaroons, 374. 

— Sauce, 371. 

Cod, 65. 79, 2(57, 316. 390- 



Cod, Fried, and Oysters, 4x3. 
Head and Shoulders, 30, 

339- ^ , 
Baked. 50, 76, 89. 

Pie, XX9. 

Sounds, 86, 156, 317. 

Stewed, 93. 

Cod's Tail Fried. 74. 

Codfish Hash. 34a 

Codling Pudding. 288, 327. 

Coffee Cream, 357. 

Cold Cream. 403. 

Cold Meat Pufis. 433. 

Colic. Windy. 493. 

— Bilious, 493. 

College Pudding, 76, 141, 303. 
Comarque's Pudding, 49. 
Combs, 483. 
Compote de Citrons. 253. 

de Epine Vinette. 28a. 

de Framboises, 222. 

— — of Greengage 222^ 

de Grenades. 337. 

de Marrons au Rhum, 82. 

de Mek)n, 22X. 

— d'Oranges, 58. 

d'Oranges k I'ltaliemie, 

252. 

— de Pechcs, 162. 

de Poires k la Cardinak, 

58. 

— de PommesirEspagnole. 
282. 

de Pommes k la Nor- 

mande. X09. 

— de Pruneaux, 253. 
— — de Prunes. 221. 
de Raisin. 161. 

— de Rhubaibe. 8au 

of Siberian Craba^ 3Z<x 

Confectionery, 460. 
Confitures de Citrons, zia 
k I'Eau-de-Vie, 338. 

— de Groseilles a Afaqoe- 
raud, i^. 

-— — de llges d' AngeBque, 

192, 
—- — k la Valencienne, 82. 
Conger. 229, 265. 273. 
Conservative Pudding, 387. 
Cooking, General remarks oo. 

18. 
Coppers and Tins, How to 

Ctean, 473. 
Corned Shoulder of Muttoa 

15a. 
Corporal Punishment. 594. 
Corsets and Staya^ 481. 
Costiveness, 493. 
Cough, 404. 
Cow Heel Soup,_S3. 
Cowslips and 

^439. 

Cramp, 492, 494. 

Cranberry Tart, 269^ 

and Cream, 14&. 

Crayfish Soup, 261. 
Cream Cake, z6z. 



INDEX. 



539 



Cream Omelet, 361. 

Creams, 93. 

Cream, An excellent. 466. 

Brandy, 467. 

Coffee, 467. 

— for Glasses, 91. 
Crecy Soup, 405. 
Croquets of Beef, 270. 

^— of Fowl, with Piquant 

Sauce, 386. 
CruUars, 41. 
Cucumbers, 435. 

Boiled, 152. 

Stewed, 333. 

Young, To pickle, 454. 

Cumberland Pudding, 119, 

420. 
Cup Cakes, 374. 
Currant CaJces, 222. 
— - Dumplings, 88, 157. 
Fritters, 212, 215. 

Jam, Black, Red, or 

White, 467. 

Jelly, Black and Red, 

467. 

Paste, 171. 

— Pudding, 67, 105. 
Curate Pudding, 211. 
Curried Fowl, 12^. 

Lobster, 380. 

Curry Powder, 451. 

Custard Pudding, 64, 72, 93, 

116, 152, 267, 268. 

— Sauce, 35, 238. 
Custards, 467. 
Cut, A, 494. 

Cutlets of Breast of Lamb k la 
St. Menhould, 183. 

Damson Batter Pudding, 278. 

Cheese, 137, 467. 

Deafness, 494. 

Devilled Biscuits, 4x5. 

Devils, 43a 

Devonshue Squab Pie, 57, 

318. 
Diarrhcea, 491. 
Digestion, Bad, 491. 
Diplomatic Pudding, 415. 
Dress, and hints connected 

with the ToUet, 480. 
Dressed Salad, 199. 
Drink for the Dog Days, 458. 
Duck, 208, 400, 403. 
Ducks, Roast, 141, 200, 217 ; 

Wild, 226, 244, 357 ; Boiled, 

363, 266. 
Dumplings, Suet, 53 ; Hard, 

<7 ; Lemon, 62 ; Yeast, 73 ; 

Oxford, 78 ; Rice, 79 ; Nor- 
folk, 97. 
Dutch Pudding, 150^ 3761 
Duty, On, 514. 
Dysentery, 492. 
Early Influence, 524. 
Eau-de-Cologne, 485. 
Economize your Time', 593. 
Edinburgh Barley Broth, 14911 



Educational Principles, 516. 
Eel Pie, zoi, 321. 
Eels k ritalienne, 34a. 
— ^ Boiled, 248, 302. 

Broiled, 69. 

Collared. 78, 353. 

Fried, 107, 114, 250. 416. 

Spitchcock. 269. 

Stewed, 72, 185, 276, 385. 

— k la Tartare, 346. 

vrith Tartar Sauce, 410. 

Effervescing Draughts — Cur- 
rant, 458; Orange, 458; 
Strawberry, 458. 

Egg Fritters, 302. 

Sauce, 445. 

Elder Wine, 458. 
Elizabeth Fzy Pudding, 24a 
Emotions of Attraction and 

Repulsion. 521. 
Epsom Grandl Stand Pigeon 

Pie. 21 1. 
Eve's Pudding, zx2, 174, 266. 
Example to Grants, 509. 
Eye, Bloodshot, 493. 

Bruised, 492. 

Inflamed. 493. 

Water, 492. 

— Weak. 492. 

Faintmg, 489. 
Faith, 53a 

Fenelon's advice to House- 
keepers, 509. 
Feimel Sauce, 445. 
Fever, 494. 

Fillet of Veal, 128, 205, 243. 
Fish, Garnish for a large, 56. 

How to Dress, 23. 

Pie, X12. 

— Salad, 175. 

Sauce, 446, 

-~- Seasons, 23. 24. 

Soup, 164, 199L 

Stew, 77, 356. 

Flatulence, 491. 
Flemish Soup, 335, 368. 
Flounders, 100, 180. 

Fly Spots, To remove, 476. 

Fondu, 144. 43a 

Fowls, Boiled, 49, 1x4, X38, 

265 ; and Sauce, 381, 395. 
Broiled. X04. 

— Fricassed in Oil, 399. 

— with Savoury Macaroni, 
4x4. 

k la Pwigord, X65. 

Roast, 32, 247. 

Sauce for. 446U 

Stewed, 232, 288. 

Frames. GUt, to dean, 476k 
Frank Sewell Tartlets, 321. 
Freckles, How to Remove, 486. 
Fnmgipane, X51, 429. 
French Beans, x66, 189, 335, 

^ 436. 438- 

French Marmalade, 209^ 

French Pie, Z07. 



Fricandeau of Veal, 126. 385, 

?94- 
Fned Haddock, 95. 

Fritters, 289. 

Fruit Fritters, 2x3. 

Pie, 69, 203. 

Sauce, 446. 

Stains, How to Remove, 

475- 
Transparency, 408, 468. 

Frying, 21. 

Furs preserved from Moths. 

482. 

Game Sauce, 446. 

Soup, 30X. 

Garden Soup, 225. 

Garden, The, and Gardening, 

496-507. 
Gaufres, 136. 
Gelee de ^ar, 163. 
Gelee d'Epine Vinette, 282. 
German Fea Soup, 55. 

Puddings, 69, 233. 

Sauce, 447. 

Sauce for made dishes, 

447- 
Gherkins, Preserved, and 

French Beans, 468. 

Giblet Pie, 50, 104, 356, 358. 

Soup, 292, 352, 37a 

Gigotaujus, 358. 

Ginger Beer, 458. 

Gingerbread, 464. 

Ginger Souffl^ Pudding, 233. 

Gin Punch, 459. 

Glace de Crfime aux Amande, 

354- 
Glaces & lAnanas, 373. 

— aux Abricots, 22X. 

de Cafe k la Crfime, 194. 

de au The. 223. 

Gold Dust, 514. 

Golden Pippins, Preserved, 

310. 
Golden Plover, 420. 
Good Meat, Test of, 17. 
Goose, 213, 270, 278, 283, 291, 

300. 
Gooseberry Charlotte, 40a 

Cream, 170. 

Fool, 153, 201. 

Pie and Ice Cream, 167. 

Pudding and Cream, 17a 

— Sauce, 447. 

Tart and Custards, 153. 

Trifle, 404. 

Gooseberries Preserved, 468. 

Goug^re au Fromage, 147. 

Gout, 490, 49a. 

Govern your Temper, 513. 

Grape Jelly, 468. 

Grapes in Brandy, 373. 

Grate, How to Clean the, 475. 

Grateful Pudding, a8i. 

Gravel, 492. 

Gravy Curry, 433. 

^— for Roast fowls, ^ 



540 



INDEX. 



Gravy Soup, 154, 346, 364. 
Grease Spots removed, 483. 
Green Apricot Pudding, i^ 

Goose, 149, x8a 

Pea Soup, 143. 

Peas. axo. 

Sauce, 447. 

Greengage Fritters, 296. 

Marmalade, 353. 

Tart, 67, 304. 

Grey Mullet, 176, 304. 
Grilled Fowl, 334. 

Salmon Cutlets, 3zi. 

Ground Rice, 377. 

Cream, 353. 

Pudding, 133, Z46, 

157. 279. 
Grouse, 339. 

Pie, 376. 

Guinea Fowl, Roast, 306, 324. 

Guirlandes Printanieres, 193. 

Haddocks, 44. 

Baked, 63, a7a 

Broiled, 6x, 

Savoury, 71, S78. 

Soup, 303. 

Hair Brushes, How to Ctean, 

483- 
Lotion, 483. ' 

Wash, 4)34. 

Ham, 363, 430. 

Omelet, 430. 

and Veal Pie, 91. 

Hands, The. to Whiten. 484. 

Hannah More's Pudding. 53, 

86. 
Hard Dumplings, 57. 
Molasses Gingerbread, 

464. 
Hare, Hashed, 54, 336. 

Jugged, 86, 38z, 396. 

Pic, 318. 

Roast, 37, 371, 397. 331, 

359. 
Soup, 48, 74, 374. 3SS, 

360, 419. 

Stuffing, 37. 

Haricot Beans, 196. 

Mutton, 155, 330, 347, 

343. 
Harrico of Veal, 90, 313. 
Hashed Heart, 148, 35a 
Mutton, 98, 113, 130, 169, 

299. 346. 
Venison, 85, 346, 333. 

Wild Duck, 394. 

Hasty Pudding, 54, 339. 

Puffs, A15. 

Haimch of Venison and Sauce, 

•^— of Mutton, 383. 

Have an object in Life, 508. 

Headache, 493. 

Health, 489. 

Heart, Palpitation of, 491. 

Heartburn, 492. 

Herefordshire Pudding, 96. 



Herrings, 75, X04. 373. 

Broiled, 69. 

Fried, 63, 

Salad, 44a 

Hessian Soup, 336. 

Hiccup, 493. 

Hints touching Deportment 

and Condition in Life, 508. 
Hoarseness, 49a. 
Hock of Soup, Z37. 
Holy Land Soup, 309. 
Hope, 533. 

Horseradish Sauce, 77, 447. 
Hotch-potch. 173, 344. 
Hot Pot, 38a 

House Lamb Steaks. 103, 370. 
Household Recipes, 473. 
Human Life, 534. 

Ice Creams and Gooseberry 

Pie, 167. 
Imperial Rice Cake, xo8. 
Important. 537. 
Indian Curry Powder, 451. 

Pickle, 455. 

Ipswich Pudding, 53, X43, X49. 
Irish Pike, 97. 

Stew, 143, 359, 335. 

Iron Stains, How to Remove, 

473- 
Isinglass. To Clarify, 461. 

Italum Cream, x66, 383. 

Jardini^ Soup, ao8. 

* erusalem Arti^okes, 435. 

] ohn Dory, 305, 433. 

] ulicn Soup, 47, 328, 345, 357. 

Junior United Pudding, 393. 

Kid Gloves, To Clean, 483. 
Kidney-end Loin of Veal, 430. 
Puddings and Beefsteak. 

333. 

Soup, 340, 343. 

Kidneys, Stewed, X50. 
Knuckle of Veal, Stewed, 196, 

axo. 

Lamb, X65, 187. 

Chops and Asparagus, 

173- 
Catlets, 157, 403. 

Fore-quarters of, 403. 

Pie, 157, 178. 

Shoulder of, 133. 

Stewed, soi. 

— and Veal Pie, xoa 
Lark Pie, 303. 
Lavender Water, 485. 
LecheCrftma, 3x7. 

Leg of Lamb, Boiled, 245, 

149. 174. 399* 

of Mutton Cutlets, 94, 

3^ « . 
Farced 181. 

— Roast, 154. 

of Veal, Boiled, 117. 

Leicester Pudding, xyx 



Lemon Cake, ^37. 

Cheesecakes, 256. 

— ^^ Cream, 400, 468. 

Dumpline,37.62,3i8,3X5. 

Mixture for Tartlets. 469^ 

Pudding, 66, 74, 99. 130. 

149. 231. 244. 247. 395. 

and Rice Pudding, 2361 

Sauce, 448. 

Sponge. 465. 

Syrup. 459. 

Tartlet, 31. 49. 

Turnovers, 319. 

Lentils, X97. 

L'Envoi, 536. 

Lethargy, 49a. 

Lettuce and Cream Salad, 

440. 
Leveret, Roast, 338, 407. 
Light Pudding, 70. 
Lip Salve. 493. 
Liver and Bacon, 115. 
Lobster, X53 ; Hot, 154 ; 

Stewed, 313. 

as an Entrfe, 88. 

k la mode Fran^ais, 143. 

Patties, 39a 

Salad, X69 ; and Dressing. 



Sauce, 34, 146. 379, 448. 

Soup, xoob XS3, 285. 

Stewed. 313. 

Loin of Mutton en Fricandeao. 
X76. 

Roasted, 395. 

Love, 525. 

Low Spirits, Recipe for, 512. 

Macaroni, 155, X97. 

Cheese?. 77. 

Pudding. 63, X33. 

Soup, 84. 99. xxa, X44. 

165, 336. 343,^34. 
Macarons aux Fieurs d'Oian- 

ger, 109. 

d'HoUande, 253. 

Mackerel, 134, 155. 269, aia, 

3X6. 

CoUared. Z40. 

au Gratin. X38. 

Madeira Cake, 58. 46a. 

Pudding, 383. 

Mahogany, To take Ink out 

of, 474. 
Maitre d'Hotel and Maigie 

Sauce, 448, 449. 
Maraschino Syrup, 4x5. 
Marble, How to Clean. 474. 
Marinade of Beef Palates. 275. 
Mark Lane Pudding. 205. 
Marmalade de Abricots* 294- 

d'Ananas, 337. 

de Poires, i^ 

— de Pommes, 194. 

Pudding, 35. 40, 229, 237. 

Marrow Pomade for Hair. 4&4- 

Pudding, 44, 27a. 

Married Life, FimYauraCsio 



INDEX, 



541 



MarseUles Vinegari 491. 
Massepains k la Duchesse, 82. 

k la Fran9aise, 83. 

au Fruit, 223. 

Matrimonial Pudding, 246. 
Maud Pudding, 316. 
Mayonnaise of Lx>bster, 413. 
Measles, The, 492. 
Meat and Potato Pie, 151. 

Pudding, 302. 

Medicine Chest, The, 488. 

Stains, To Remove, 473. 

Medlar Telly, 373, 469. 
Meg's Gold Cake, 464. 

Silver Cake, 464. 

— Soda Cake, 464. 
Meringues Ordinaires, 31a 
Milanese Cream, 421. 
Mildew in Linen, To Remove, 

47S 
Milk Punch, 459. 

Millet Pudding, xoa 

Mince Meat, 469. 

Pies, 56. 

Minced Veal, 1x3, 165, 206. 

Mint, 436. 

Sauce, 166, 403, 449. 

Mixed Pickle, 455. 

Soup, 240. 

Mock Turtle Soup, 29, 66, 256, 

342, 365. 409- 
Mole of Turkey, 75. 
Moral Courage, 516. 
Mulligatawny Soup, 41, 1x7, 

X83, 258, 263, 416. 
Mushrooms, 410, 432. 

Ketchup, 449. 

Mustard Plaster, 489. 
Mutton and BeeJf Pie, 56k 

Breast of, 46, loa 

Broth, 71, 

Cutlets, 53, 94, 286, 292, 

417. 419- 

Grilled, X90. 

k la Italienne, 172. 

k la Jardiniere, 345. 

Haunch of, 39, 62. 

Hotch-potch. 275. 

Leg of. Roast, 33, 268, 

276. 
Boiled, 62, 12$, X27, 

145- 

Cold, 63. 277. 

Minoe of, 239. 

Pie, 336. 

Roast Loin of, 69, 229. 

Saddle of, 45, 235, 387. 

Shoulder of. Coined, 39. 

48. 

Roast. 63, 407. 

Remains of. Cold, 

64. 

Soup, 54, 182. 

Steaks, j6o. 

Stuffed Loin of, 39X. 

Napier Pudding, 227. 
Naples Biscuits, 337. 



Napoleon's Pudding, 234. 
Neck of Lamb, 103. 

of Mutton Soup, xos- 

Stewed, 233, 308. 

of Veal, 24X. 

of Venison, 240. 

Nelson Pudding, 298. 
Nesselrode Cream, i6x. 

Puddmg, 39. 

Neuralgia, 49a 
New College Pudding. X27. 
Noix Confites au Sucre, X37. 
Nonpaieil Sauce, 449. 
Norfolk Dumplings, 97, 285. 
Normandy Pippins, Stewed, 

470. 
North Country Pudding, 228. 
Northumberland Pudding, 294. 
Norwich Pudding, 230. 

Oak Wainscot, To give a gloss 

to, 474, 
Oilcloth, 474* 

Oil of Roses for the Hair, 484. 
011a Podrida, xi6. 
Omelet Glace, 361. 

with Preserves, 396. 

Souffle, 85, x6o, 2x7, 

359. 360, 369. 
■^— with Sweetmeats, 366. 
Onions, 438. 

and Beetroot, 327. 

Pickled, 456. 

Spanish, How to Pickle, 

456- 
Sauce, 64, 69, 248, 266, 

450. 
Orange Biscuits, 373. 
Fritters, 323. 

— Marmalade, 469. 

Pudding, 286, 342, 347. 

— Sauce, 450. 

Tartlet, 32a 

Oranges. 433. 

Preserved, 470. 

Ostrich Feathers, To Clean, 

482. 
Oxcheek, Stewed, 68, 128, 397. 
Oxford Dumplings, 78, x2o, 

218. 
Oxhead Soup, 5X. 
Oxheart, X19. 
Oxtail Soup, 38, 70, X24, 158, 

x86, 39^ 
Oxtails, Stewed, 52, 150, 225, 

301. 
Oyster Fritters, 283. 

Omelet, 26a 

Patties, 296, 319^ 

Sauce. 49, 79, 86, 4Sa 

Sausages, 43 x. 

Soup, 8<, 308. 

Vol-au-Vent, 380. 

White, 45a 

Oysters, Fried, 284. 
Scalloped, 303. 

Pain k la Duchesse, 324. 



Pain de Pomme, 259. 

de Prusse, 223. 

Paint, To get rid of Smell of, 

476. 
Palestine Soup, 271. 
Pancakes, 72. 
Papering of Damp Walls, 

474- 
Parisian Sauce, 450. 

Parsley, 436. 

Sauce, 45a 

Parsnips, Fried. 287. 

Partridge. 262, 268, 290^ 302, 

414. 431- 
Pie, 304. 

Soup, 29a 

Paste Fritters, 216. 

' for Cheesecakes, 470. 

Pate d'Amandes Croquante. 

136. 
Croquante k I'ltalieime, 

162. 

de Veijus, X37. 

Patrician Bubble and Squeak, 

25s. 284. 
Patty-pan Pudding, 248. 

Pea Soup, 44, 74, 96, lai, 125. 

187, 219, 231. 422. 

— German. 55. 

Pears k I'Allemande, 338. 

Stewed, 470. 

Peas, 165, 200. 
— To Preserve, 437. 
Peas Pudding, 264, 292. 
Pepperpot, 280. 
Perfumes, 485. 

French, 485. 

for Drawers and Linen. 

486. 

of Roses, 486. 

Perch, 345. 

Perspiration, Night, 494. 
Petits Souffle k ritalienne. 

59. 

Petty Evils, 526. 

Pheasant, 31, 294, 298, 328, 
334, 423. 

Pick-me-up, 491. 

Pickle, which can be used di- 
rectly, 456. 

Pickling, 454. 

Pies and Puddings, 24. 

Pigeons, 176, 190, 203, 205, 
216, 233, 314. 370, 380, 403. 

Pie, 45, 96, 177, 308, 417. 

Pig's Head, Roasted, 134. 

Pike, 332, 334, 354. 

k la Gencvaise, 351. 

Pimples and Spots on the Face, 
How to Remove, 490. 

Pine Apple, 373. 382. 

Fritters, 214. 

Preserved, 471. 

Piquante Sauce, 450. 

Pistachio Cream, 223. 

Plaice, 57, 67, 1x5, 2x5, 299. 

Plum Cake, 463. 

— — Porridge, sa 



542 



INDEX. 



Plum Padding, 37, 42, 46. 6z, 
87, 124, 235, 250, 287. 331. 

344* 
— — Sauce. 61, 451. 

Plums. Preserved, 471. 

Poached Eggs, 431. 

Poet's Receipt for Salad, 441. 

Polished Stoves, 475. 

Polishing Paste for Tins. 475. 

Pork, Boiled, 57, 126, 29a. 

Boiled L^ of. xos 414- 

Broth, 264, 309. 

Cutlets, 394, 371. 

Kabob. 177, 219. 

Pickled and Stewed, 217. 

Roast Leg of, 44, 8x, 365. 

Loin of, 249. 

Ribs of, 227. 

— Soup, 9a 
Porter, Bottled, 459. 
Portugal Cake, 373. 
Portuguese Macaroons, 194. 
Potage k la Jardiniere, 12a. 
4 la Reine. 123. 

Pot au Feu, 172, 237. 
Potato Soup, 103. 

Dumplings, I2X. 

Fritters, 340, 341. 

Potatoes, 38, 151. 

How to Choose, 435. 

How to Dress, 434. 

Mashed, 31, 391. 

— Mealy, 30. 

and Meat Pie, 151. 

New, in Cream, 146. 

Poultry, How to Dress, 2a. 

Prawn Soup, 401. 

Prayer, 528. 

Prelude of Mottoes, 11. 

Preventitive against Moths, 
486. 

Prince Arthur's Soup, 327. 

Pudding, 404. 

Procrastination and Extrava- 
gance, 513- 

Pudding for a Prince, 407. 

Pullet Roast, 151. 

Punch 4 la Ford, 457. 

Punch Jelly, 382. 

Pur^ of Game Soup, 27B. 

Quails, 329. 

Quaker Pudding, io6. 

Queen Cakes, 109. 

Anne's Pudding, 2tx). 

Mab's Pudding, 305, 

Queen's Pudding, 209. 
Quince Paste, 3x1. 
Quinsey, 491. 

Rabbit, Boiled, 331. 336. 
— - Brown, Fricasee of, 307. 

4 la Jardiniere, 75. 

Pie, 97, 274. 

— Ragdut, 320. 

Roast. X34, 225, 243, 285, 

367. 
To taste like Hare. 43a 



Raisin Podding, 295. 
Raspberry Cream, 387. 
Jam, 47X. 
eUi 



a- 



333- 
Tourte, 156. 

— - \^egar. 459, 471. 

Ratafia Cream, 357. 

Pudding and Sanoe, 1x7. 

Ratafias, 192. 

Red Mullet, 178, aox, 207, 2x3, 

2x8, 288, 393^ 4x6. 

Regent's Pudding and Sonoe, 

43» «4- 
Restoxative Broth, 73, 

Rheumatism, 492. 

Rhubaib Jam, 47a. 

Pie, 19a 

Pudding, 132. 

Ribs of Beef, xxx, 352. 

Rice Cakes, 464, 465. 

Rice Dumpling, 79, 1x3, 330. 

Flummery, xa6, 242. 

Fritters, 4x2. 

Hedgehog, 1x5. 

Pudding, 45, 87, 9a, 107, 

a39- 
Soup, 43. 

Rich Cakes, 464. 

Fruit Cakes. 464* 

Rimolade Sauce, 451. 

Ringworm, 490. 

Rissoles of Fowl, 406. 

Roast Beef, 351. 

Boiled, 29a 

Roasting, X9. 

Roast Dumplings. i2X. 

Fowls, X24, X26, 325. 

Larks, 500, 429. 

Leg of Mutton, X3X, 230. 

Lobster, X02. 

Rolled Beef, 88, 107. 

Loin of Mutton, 23a 

Ribs of Beef, 6x. 

Romford Pudding, 284. 

Round of Boiled Beef, 325. 

Royal Rice Cake, 252. 

Rump of Beef Braized, 2x8. 

SteeJc 238. 

Stewed, 70^ aoa, 

354- ^ 
Rusks, 463. 

Saffron Cake, 253. 
Sago Pudding, X5X. 

Sauce, 45X, 

Sally Lunn Cake, 465. 
Salmi of WUd Ducks, 258. 
Salmon, 131, 2x4, ai6, 247. 

Boiled, 37, 92, 98, 14s, 

X9S, 224, 236, 397. 

— Broiled, X77, 23a 

— Collared, 167. 

Cutlets, 200, 405. 

Dried, X73. 

Fillet of, 218. 

Fried, 255, 40X. 

Pickled, X48. 



Salmon Pudding. 196, 22a 

Steaks. 351. 

Salt Fish. 129. 

Sauce to Boiled Fowls. 153. 

A Simple Sweet, 43. 

to Sirloin of Beef, 363. 

Sausage Rolls, 431. 
Savoy Biscuits, 465. 

Cake, X93. 

Savoury Omelet, 95. 305. 

— Macaroni. 383, 4x2. 
Scalloped Oysters, 335. 
Sciatica. 49a. 
Scorbutic Gums. 49a. 
Scotch Barley Broth, xoi, xSo^ 

238. 
Scotch Broth, 41, 4X6L 

Broth, 87. 

Seed Cake, 37a. 

Scottish Hotch-potch. 142, 
Sea-Kale, 34, 278, 419. 
Semolina Pudding, 83% 

Soup, 47. 

Shad. Boiled, 147. 158. 
Sheep's Kidneys, 406. 
Shelford Pudding. 114. 
Shin of Beef Soup. 67, 369. 

A Broken, 49a. 

Shortbread, 464. 
Short-Crust Pastry, 461. 
Shrimp Sauce. 37, 398, 451. 
Shropshire Dumpling, 2x9. 
Sickroom. Rules for a, 495. 
Silks, To Clean, 486. 
— - Flowered and Satin, 

486. 
Skin Powder, 486. 
Slit Lobster. 80. 
Smelts, 284. 33X. 
Snipe Pudding, 366^ 

Roast. 344. 

Snowballs, xoi. 

Snow Pancakes. 64. 34$, 365. 

Soap, good, for the Sikin. 487. 

Soda N^us. 458. 

Soles, B^ced, 4a 

Boiled, 281. 

— ^ with Cream, 156. 

Filleted. 239, a79, 38a 

409. 
Fried, 33, 80^ 141, 235, 

297. 341. 385. 
au Gratin, i8r. 

Soluble Horseradish, 437. 

Sore Throat, 491. 

Souffle Pudding, ao6, aacv 

294. 
Soup, 3a, 39, 139^ 151. ag^ 

362. 

k I'Aurore, 152, i6a 

a Boulli, X69. 841. 

— ^ k la Clermont, 148. 

k la Cantatrice, 307. 349^ 

Lorraine, 78. 

Making 01, x8. 

Medium Stock, 349^ 

Mulligatawny, 41. 

— Plain, x/a 



INDEX. 



543 



Soup 4 la Rdne, 178. 


Sweetbread, with Truffles, 


Veal Sweetbread au Blanc, 




402. 


^,^^' , 


Spring, 118, 159. 


Sweet Manners, ^pf^. 


Vegetables, 157, 268, 309. 
How to Dress, 25, 434. 




Winter. 46. 


Sauce for Puddings, 452. 


Vegetable Marrow, 261, 289. 


Souster or Dutch Pudding, 


for Venison, 452. 


Mulligatawney, aza 


150. 


Swiss Pudding, Plain, 27s. 


Salad, 441. 


Spanish Fritters, 123. 


^349- 


Soup, 36, 106, 13a, 168, 


Spice Mixture, 451. 


Syllabubs, 364. 


x88, 190. 


Spinach, 131, 17a, 316, 436. 


Tapioca Pudding, 90^ 216, 


Stew, 186. 


Spitch-cock Eels, 114. 


a75- 


Venetian Cream. 391. 


Spitting Blood, 494. 


Soup, 2a7, 361, 401. 


Fritters, 28a 


Sponge Cake, i^s* 4o8. 


Tarts, 57. 


Venison Pasty, 47, 304. 317. 


Pudding, 271. 277. 


Tea, 427, 428. 


and Sauce, 322. 


Spots and Pimples on the 


Teal and Sea-Kale, 391. 


Vermicelli Soup, 98, iii, 146, 


Teeth, The, 487, 494. 


197. 315. 321- 


Face, To Remove, 49a 


Powder, 487. 


Pudding, '.142, 201, 313. 


Sprains, 491. 


Tench, 347. 


Victoria Pudding, 34, 198, 


Sprats, Baked, 431. 


Toasted Mackerel, 207. 


208, 2S8. 


Stewed Rump of Beef k la 


Tomato Sauce, 371, 4sa. 


Sauce, 34. 


Daube, 179. 


Tongue, 3a, 197. 377, 348, 


Villa Soup, 232. 


Stewed Steak, 237, 303, 


395- 


Visiting, 527. 


Beefsteak, 272. 


Soup, 3X3. 




Stews and Salted Meat, 2^ 


Toothache, 489, 494. 


Wafer Pancakes, 262. 


— Sauce, 179. 


Toum^e Sauce, 453. 


Walnut Ketchup, 453. 


Stews, Sauce for, 452. 


Tourons de diifdrentes 


Salad, 441. 


Stock, To clarify, 327. 
Stone Cream and Tartlets, 183, 


Couleurs, 193. 


Warts, 493. 494. 


Travelling, Hints on. 477. 


Washing, The Labour of. 


'/*!' 


Trifle, or Swiss Cream, 47a, 


Diminished, 4^S- 
Water, To Purify, 476. 


Fruits & I'Espagnole, 25a. 


Trimming Soup, aoa. 


Store Onions, 436. 


Tripe, Boiled, 439. 


Watercress Salad, 441. 


A, Sauce, 452. 


Roasted. 275. 


Weak Ankles, 494. 


Strawberry Blancmange, 184. 
and Crumb Pudding, 373. 


Turbot, 34, 60. 175, 36a, 379. 


Welsh Pudding, 27a 
West India Experience, 4S9. 


Remains of, 35. 




Turkey, BoUed, 41, 396, 33s, 


West Riding Pudding, axa 


— Souffl^, 207. 


362. 


Whisky Cordial, 459. 


Strawberries, Preserved whole, 


Roast, 74, 348, 


Whitebait, 405. 


471. 


Turkish Pillaw with Meat. 7a. 


White Fricassee of Rabbits, 


Staffordshire Beefsteaks, 36. 


Turmps, i68. 298, 309, 399. 


96, 219. 


Sterry Pudding, 251. 


Turtle Soup, 379. 


— Potato Soup, 94. 


Stewed Brisket of Beef, 87, 






260, 353, 398. 
Stewed Cod, 93. 


Ulcers, 494. 


Sauce, i6s, 4S3- 


Unconscious Influence, si^- 


Soup, 39, lao. 127, 189, 


Cucumber, 21 j. 


Unpunctual People to be 


413- 


Stewed Giblets, 352. 


avoided, sn- 


Whiting, 106, 171, a86, 387, 


Lobster, 116. 


Uvula, Inflamed, 494. 


402. 


Omelet, 292. 


Relaxed, 494. 


Whitlow, 492. 


Sturgeon, Roast, 56. 


1 


Widgeon, 287, 328, 354. 


Stewed, 141, 264. 


Vanilla Sauce, 4S3. 


Wild Fowl. 99. 


Sucking Pig, Roast, 293, 32a, 


Veal Cutlets, 155, ao8, 227, 


Windsor Pudding, 209. 
Winkin de Wordes Pudding. 


350- 


242, 316, 330, 340. 414- 


Suet Dumphngs, 53. 


Curry, 329. 


245- 


Pudding, 107, 134. 


Fricandeau, 267. 


Winter Salad, 44a. 


Sugar, How to Clarify, 46a 


— and Ham Cutlets, 4106. 




Suggestions to those who give 


— — and Ham Pie, 91, 398, 


Woodcocks, 330, 33a, 


Dinner Parties, 376. 


319. 


and Snipes, 347, 355. 

Woodwork, How to Clean, 


Summer Beverages, 457. 


k la Maintenon, 2x3. 


Pudding, 168. 


Neck of, 226. 


474- 


— — Sauoe, x68. 


Olives, 313, 398. 


Worcester Pudding, 318. 


Supper, 429. 




Worth Remembering, 513. 


Surrey Pudding, 231. 


Pie, 93. 


Wrexham Soup, 184. 


Sutherland Pudding, 31, 48. 


Wyvem Pudding, 332. 


Sweetbreads, 4xa 


Roast, 189. 




k la Dauphine, 303. 




Yeast Dumplings, 73, 89. 
Yorkshire Pudding, 76, xoB, 


with Mushrooms, 38a 


Fillet of, 209. 


with Peas, 175. 




axa, 369, 389. 


Pic, SI, SS^ «M. 


Sirloin of, 295. 




— Stewed, 30a. 


Stewed, 147, 171. 


Zandrina Padding, 4x1. 



MURRAY AND CIBB, EDINBURGH, 
PRINTSRS TO HBR MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE, 



I 



A SELECTI O N 

FROM 

PUBLISHED BY 

WILLIAM P. NIMMO, EDINBURGH. 



*»* Complete Catalogues of Mr. Nimmo's Publications, choicely printed and 
elegantly bound, suitable for the Library, Presentation, and School Prizes, etc. 
etc., will be forwarded gratis, post free, on application. 

* Mr, Nimmo^s Books are well known as marvels of cheapness^ elegance^ and 

sterling worth,* — Observer. 



HUan MILLER'S WORKS. 

CHEAP POPULAR EDITIONS, 
In orown 8vo, oloth extra, price 6s. eaoh. 

Twenty-Fourth Edition, 

1. My Schools and Schoolmasters ; or, The 

Story of my Education. 

* A story which we have read with pleastire, and shall treasure up in memory for the sake of 
the manly career narrated, and the glances at old-world manners and distant scenes afforded us 
by the way.' — Aikefueum. 

Forty- Second Thousand, 

2. The Testimony of the Rocks ; or, Geology 

in its Bearings on the Two Theologies, Natural and Revealed. Profusely 
Illustrated, 

* The most remarkable woik of perhaps the most remarkable man of the age. ... A magnifi- 
cent epic, and the Principia of Geology.'— ^rr'/wA and Foreign Evangelical Revitva, 

Eleventh Edition, 

3. The Cruise of the Betsey ; or, A Summer 

Ramble among the Fossiliferous Deposits of the Hebrides. With Rambles 
of a Geologist ; or, Ten Thousand Miles over the Fossiliferous Deposits of 
Scotland. 

Seventh Edition, 

4. Sketch-Book of Popular Geology. 

[Continued on next page. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



HUGH MILLEB'S WOBK& 

CHEAP POPULAR EDITIONS, 

In orown 8to, oloth extra, jirioe 6s. each. 

Fourteenth Edition, 

5. First Impressions of England and its 

PEOPLE. 

'This is precisely the kind of book we should hare looked for from the author of the "Old 
Red Sandstone." Stiaightforward and earnest in style, rich and varied in matter, these "Flnt 
Impressions " will add another latirel to the wreath which Mr. Miller has already won for him- 

Thirteenth Edition, 

6. Scenes and Legends of the North of 

SCOTLAND; or, The Traditional History of Cromarty. 

*A very pleasing and interesting book. The style has a purity and rlrpmrti which icaund 
one of Inong, or of Irving's master. Goldsmith. *~-^pecUUcr, 

Nineteenth Edition, 

7. The Old Red Sandstone ; or, New Walks 

in an Old Field. Frofiudy Illustrated, 

' In Mr. Miller's charming little work will be found a Tory graphic descripdoa of die Old Red 
Fishes. I know not a more fascinating volume on any branch of British Geology.'—- if«ii4riff 
MtdaU of CrtoHni^ 

Fifth Edition. 

8. The Headship of Christ and the Rights of 

the Christian People. With Preface by P£TS& Bayns, A.M. 

Seventeenth Edition, 

9. Footprints of the Creator; or, The Aste- 

rolepis of Stromness. With Preface and Notes by Mrs. Miller, an 
a Biographical Sketch by Professor Agassiz. Profusely Illustratii, 

Seventh Edition, 

ID. Tales and Sketches. Edited, with a Prefacct 

by Mrs. Miller. 

Sixth Edition, 

II. Essays: Historical and Biographical, Political 

and Social, Literary and Scientific. 

Fifth Edition, 

12. Edinburgh and its Neighbourhood, 

Geological and Historical With the Geology of the Bass Rock. 

Fifth Edition, 

13. Leading Articles on Various Subjects. 

Edited by his Son-in-kw, the Rev. John Davidson. With a Chaimc- 
teristic Portrait of the Author, fac-sunile from a Photograph, by D. O. 
Hill, R.S.A. 



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



*(^* Hugh Miner's Works may also be had in complde sets of 1% 

Volumes^ bound in haif-caif with extra bands, price ^^4, 17J. 6<i, 

or elegantly bound in roxburgh style, gilt top^ price ^3, i8j., or 

in cloth extra, gold and black printing, new style, gilt top, price jQi, Jf. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



HUGH MILLER'S WORKS. 



NEW CHEAP RE'ISSUE. 



IN announcmg a New Cheap Edition of the Works of Hugh Miller, 
the Publisher does not consider it necessary to add anything by way of com- 
mendation. The fame of Hugh Miller is securely established throughout the 
world, and his works, by universal consent, take rank among the highest in 
English Literature. « 

To the higher and more cultivated classes of society, he appeals by the purity 
and elegance of his style, as well as by his remarkable powers of description, and 
his profound knowledge of the marvels of nature. To the humbler classes and 
the working man, the story of his life — himself originally a working man in the 
strictest sense of the word, pushing his way upward to the distinguished position 
which he attained — must possess a peculiar charm, and to them his writings 
cannot fiiil to prove of special value. 

At the present time, the works of Hugh Miller, one of the most gifted of our 
self-taught and self-made men, are peculiarly suited to exercise a most powerful 
influence in promoting the great cause of the progress of Education ; and this 
new Edition, while elegant enough to command a place in the libraries of the 
rich, is cheap enough to be within the reach of the student and the working man. 

Although many of his books have already attained an immense sale notwith- 
standing their high price, the Publisher feels assured that they only require to be 
offered to the general public at a moderate rate to ensure for them a very widely 
increased circulation. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

'This attempt to brins the works of to distinguished aa audior within the reach of aU danet 
cannot fail to be univenally appreciated.'— ilfvrmiv Star, 

* Hugh Miller's writings have long passed the period of critidsm, and taken rank among 
standard works. From the times of the British Essayists and Oliver Goldsmith, no literary man 
has shown a greater mastery of the English language than the author of Tkt Old Rtd Sand' 
tt0H4. The sin of the page and the letterpress are suitable for die library, while the price is a 
third less than the original tAxxXovL'^-Daily Rtvum, 

'The moderate price at which the series is now offered, however, wiU enable thousands of 
readers to acquire for themselves those volumes which they have hitherto only found accessible 
by means of the circulating library. From the pore, manly, and instructive character of his 
writings— whether social, moral, or scientific— and from the fascinating attractions of his style, 
we do not know any works better deserving of a vast circulation than those of Hugh Miller. 
The edition is clearly printed, and altogether well got up/— ^ilax^vtv Herald, 

* This cheap re-issue by Mr. Nimrao will enable tens of thousands who have yet only heard of 
Hugh Miller soon to learn to appreciate and admire him.' — Bt//*s Mtsxtngtr, 

'This cheap edition of Hugh Miller's works deserves, and will doubtless secure, a very ex- 
tended public support. No one knew better than Hugh Miller how to combine amusement with 
instrucdon ; and all his works exhibit this most important combination.' — Pt$hlu Opinion. 

'The works of Hugh Miller cannot be too widely known or studied; and die publisher 
deserves our thanks for his cheap re-issue of them.'— 7*4# Standard, 

' A new cheap issue of Hugh Miller's admirable works will be hailed with pleasure by all who 
desire to possess a really valuable collection of books.'— TVkr Ohserver. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



POPULAR WORKS BY ASCOTT R. HOPE. 

Second Edithn^ just published^ in large crown Zvo^ cloth gilt, price y, 6d,, 

STORIES OF WHITMINSTER. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of 'A Book about Dominies,' 'A Book about 
Boys,' 'My Schoolboy Friends,' 'Stories of School Life,' etc. etc. etc. 

T^ird Edition f just published, post 2iz/o, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated^ 

gUt edges, price 5j., 

MY SCHOOLBOY FRIENDS: 

A STORY OF WHITMINSTER GRAMMAR SCHOOL 

By the Author op 

' A Book about Dominies,' ' Stories of School Life,' etc. 

' lU fidelity to truth is the chaim of the book : but the individuiils introduced are so admirably 
described, that an excellent moral may be deduced from the attributes of the well-disposed and 
the Ticicms. The volume will be read with interest by those who have arrived at foil a^e, and 
with much mental profit by those who are in their nonage.'— TlAr Limeoim Mercury, 



Just ready, crown ^o, elegantly bound, cloth extra, gilt edges, and profusely 

Illustrated, price y. (>d., 

GEORGE'S ENEMIES;. 

A SEQUEL TO 'MY SCHOOLBOY FRIENDS.' 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of 'A Book about Boys,' etc. etc. 

'This is one of the best of Mr. Hope's books about boys. There is no pretension aboat it, 
and no sentimentality.' — The Spectator. 



Geori 
variety an' 
Pail Mall Gauitt. 



ee's Enemies/* a sequel to " My Schoolboy Friends," is, to say the least, too full of 
a of incident to weaiy the youthful reader, especially if that reader is a sclioolboy.'— 



THIRD EDITION, 

Crown 9vo, elegantly bound, cloth extra, gilt edges, and profusely Illustrated by 

Chas. Green, /r«-^ 3j. 6d,, 

STORIES ABOUT BOYS. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of * Stories of School Life,' ' My Schoolboy 

Friends,* etc. etc. 

' A book for boys by Mr. Hope stands in no need of recommendation. His previous tales 
have proved such'tavourites, that the simple announcement of his name is sufficient to ensure for 
his new volume a wide circulation among the host of youths who are let loose from school about 
Christmas-time. These stories are admirably suited, in their subject and style, to excite and 
attract all juvenile readers. They have the rare advantage of really good illustrations, and the 
style of binding is the prettiest and most artistic we have yet come across.'— 7)^ North Brituh 
MaU. 

* Boys will find he has prepared a tempting dish, into which they may dip again and again 
irith interest and with profit. The volume is nandsomely got \x^'-^Tk4 Seoismmn. 



Fourth Edition, just published, in crown %vo, elegantly bound and Uitistrated, 

gilt edges, 51., 

STORIES OF SCHOOL LIFE. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, 
Author of ' A Book about Boys,' ' A Book about Dominiei,' etc. etc 

' Every one who had the good fortune to read those delightful books of Mr. Hope's, ** A Book 
about Dominies " and '* A Book about Boys," must have registered a hope that ne wouki some 
day give us a collection of stories about school life ; and here is the identical book. The stories 
are genial and refreshing, rich with the hifrhest moral sentiments, never maudlin, and thoroughly 
natural. We trust to meet Mr. Hope again and again in similar works, for we can assure him 
that no sensational story that has ever been written ever possessed half the interest or exuoyment 
which these stories possess. '—/'mi/iVr Opinion, 

[Continued on next page. 



WILLIAM P« NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



POFULAS WOBEB BT ABOOTT B. KOFE—cotttinucd. 

In crown 9v0, cloth extra, gilt edges, with numerous Illustrations, price 5x.| 

STORIES OF 
FRENCH SCHOOL LIFE. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of < A Book about Dominies/ < Stories abont 

Boys/ ' My Schoolboy FriendS|' etc 

Fourth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, y. 6d,, 

A BOOK ABOUT DOMINIES: 

BEING THE REFLECTIONS AND RECOLLECTIONS OF A 
MEMBER OF THE PROFESSION. 

'This is a manly, earnest book. The author describes in a series of essays the life and woile 
of a schoohnaster : and as he has lived that life and done that woric from deliberate choice, his 
story is worth hearing.'— T'ikr S/*ctatffr, 



Jumrth Edition, crown 9vo, cloth extra, price y. 6d,, 

A BOOK ABOUT BOYS. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of <A Book about Dominies,' etc. 

'This Tolume is full of knowledge, both useful and entertaining, in the truest sense of the words, 
and it is impossible to put it down without a feeling of personal kindliness towards the author. 
If our readers think we have praised too much and criticised too little, we can cnly say there is 
something about the book which disarms one's critical faculty, and appeals to them to Judge for 
themselves. We should like to see it in the hands of every parent and schoolmaster in £nguuid.' 

S^ond Edition, crown %uo, cloth extra, price y, 6d,, 

TEXTS FROM THE TIMES. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of < A Book about Dominies,' ' A Book abont 

Boys,' etc. etc. 

' Mr. Hope is a very sensible man. and speaks what is well worth listening to for its ffood. 
practical common-sense. . . . This book is especially distinguished by its healthy tone, and should 
oe put into the hands of all young people.'— IVtttmiHsttr Review, 

Second and Cheaper Edition, just ready, crown %vo, cloth extra, price y, 6d.^ 

MASTER JOHN BULL: 
A HOLIDAY BOOK FOR PARENTS AND SCHOOLMASTERS. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of * A Book about Dominies,' etc etc 

'It is a book well worth reading by all who have the care and control of boys; for though 
they mav not, perhaps, correct theur mistakes, stiU some gleam of light and feeling of sympo^y 
must follow from reaiiling it.'— r4r A thetumm. 



In imperial i6mo, profusely Illustrated, cloth degant, price y, 6d,, 

THE NIGHT BEFORE THE 

HOLIDAYS. 

By ASCOTT R. HOPE, Author of * My Schoolboy Friends,' etc 

New Work by ASCOTT R, HOPE, 

Author of 'George's Enemies,' 'My Schoolboy Friends,' etc etc 

Uniform in Size and Price with * The Night Before the Holidays,' 

THE DAY AFTER THE HOLIDAYS. 

With Hnmerons Original lUnstratioiis bj PHIZ, jim. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



* A marvel of cheapness and excellence^ even in this age of cheap 

literature^ — Observer. 



NI MMO'S 



Library Edition of Standard Works. 

In large demy Zvc^ with Steel Portrait and Vignette^ handsomely 
bounds roxburgh style^ gilt top^ price 58. ecuh. 



I. Shakespeare's Complete Works. With 

a Biographical Sketch by Mary Cowden Clarke, a Copious Glossary, 
and numerous Illustrations. 



•»♦ This Edition is based on the Text of Johnson, Stccvcns, and Reed, which 
is allowed to be one of the most accurate ; and, so far as regards mechanical cor- 
rectness, it will contrast favourably with many high-priced and ambitious editions. 

2. Burns' Complete Works. Containing 

also his Remarks on Scottish Song, General Correspondence, Letters to 
Clarinda, and Correspondence with George Thomson. With Life and 
Variorum Notes, and full-page Illustrations by eminent Artists. 

3. Goldsmith's Miscellaneous Works. In- 

cluding 'The Vicar of Wakefield,' « Citizen of the World,* 'Polite 
Learning,' Poems, Plajrs, Essays, etc. etc. 

4. Lord Byron's Poetical Works. With 

Life. Illustrated with full-page Engravings on Wood by eminent Artists. 

5. Josephus; The Whole Works of Fla- 

VIUS JOSEPHUS, the Jewish Historian. Translated by WlLUAM 
Whiston, A.M. With Life, Portrait, Notes, and Index, etc. 

6. The Arabian Nights' Entertainments. 

Translated from the Arabic. An entirely New and Complete Edition. 
With upwards of a Hundred Illustrations on Wood, drawn by S. J. 
Groves. 

7. The Works of Jonathan Swift, D.lD. 

Carefully selected. Including *A Tale of a Tub,' 'Gulliver's Travels,' 
•Journal to Stella,' • Captain Crcichton,' 'Directions to Servants,' Essays, 
Poems, etc. etc With a Biography of the Author, and Original and 
Authentic Notes. 

[Continued on next page. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



* We congratulate the lovers of good literature on having their tastes 
supplied at such a cheap rate* — ^The City Press. 



N IMMO'S 

Library Edition of Standard Works, 

CONTINUED. 

In large demy 8w, with Steel Portrait and Vignette^ handsomely 
bound, roxburgh style, gilt top, price 68. each. 



8. The Works of Daniel Defoe. Carefully 

selected from the most authentic sources. Including ' Robinson Crusoe,' 
'Colonel Jack,' 'Memoirs of a Cavalier,' 'Journal of the Plague in 
London,' ' Duncan Campbell,' ' Complete English Tradesman,' etc. etc. 
With Life of the Author. 

9. The Works of Tobias Smollett. Care- 

fully selected from the most authentic sources. Including 'Roderick 
Random,' ' Peregrine Pickle,' ' Humphry Clinker,* Plays, Poems. * With 
Life, etc. 

ID. The Canterbury Tales and Faerie 

QUEEN : With other Poems of Chaucer and Spenskr. Edited for 
Popular Perusal, with current IllustratiTe and Explanatory Notes. With 
Lives of the Authors. 

11. The Works of the British Dramatists. 

Carefully selected from the Original Editions. Including the best 
Plays of Ben Jonson, Christopher Marlowe, Beaumont and, 
Fletcher, Philip Massinger, etc. etc. With copious Notes, Bio- 
graphies, and a Historical Introduction. 

12. The Scottish Minstrel : The Songs and 

Song Writers of Scotland subsequent to Bums. With Biographies, etc. 
etc. By the Rev. Charles Rogers, LL. D. 

13. Moore: The Poetical Works of Thomas 

MOORE. New Edition, carefully Revised. With Life. Illustrated 
with full-page Engravings on Wood by eminent Artists. 

14. Fielding : The Writings of *Henry 

FIELDING. Comprising his Celebrated Works of Fiction. With 
Life, etc. 

15. Sterne: The Works of Laurence 

STERNE. New and Complete Edition. Including 'Tristram 
Shandy,' 'A Sentimental Journey,* Sermons, Letters, etc. etc 

16. Boswell's Johnson; The Life of Samuel 

JOHNSON, LL. D. By James Boswell. New and Complete Edition, 
carefully revised from the most authentic sources, with Notes, etc. etc. 

*^* This Series is also kept bound in doth extra^ full gilt side^ back, and edges, 
price 6s, 6d. each ; and in half calf extra, marbled sides, edges, and end 
papers, price %s. 6d. each. 



8 WJLUAM P. NDfMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH 

yustrmdy^ 

WIXB BX4UT1FU1XT lUJUlOH ATHD HOT A1IOV IVOKT TABHAT OV BSBSm, 



MOBOOOO BOnVDRM^ 



m AinxQua* baibbd avd nj.TTiniiATM^ wns ifwiw.or.AiiB if»nATJj< 

FosnujT av sid^ pbiob iih oo. 




AUBO Of OAiaDOHZAJr WOOD, VBBIT PATTB«r, WITH PHOTO. POBilHAIT, HIOL, 

0« Sm^ M OBOOOO EKTBA BACK, PBICB IOb. 

N IMMO'S 

POPULAR EDITION OF THE WORKS 

OF THE POETS. 

Infcap. %vo^ printed on toned paper. E<uh volume contains a Memoir^ 
and is illustrated with a Portrait of the Author engr4Mved on 
Steelf and numerous Juilpage Illustrations on Woody from designs 
by eminent Artists; also beautiful Illuminated Titk-page. 

1. Longfellow^s. Poetical Works. 

2. Scott's Poetical Works. 

3. Byron's Poetical Works. 

4. Moore's Poetical Works. 

5. Wordsworth's Poetical Works. 

6. Cowper's Poetical Works. 

7. Milton's Poetical Works. 

8. Thomson's Poetical Works. 

9. Goldsmith's Choice Works. 

10. Pope's Poetical Works. 

11. Burns' Poetical Works. 

12. The Casquet of Gems. Choice Selections from 

the Poets. 

13. The Book of Humorous Poetry. 

14. Ballads: Scottish and English. 

15. Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and Holy War. 

16. Lives of the British Poets. 

17. The Prose Works of Robert Burns. 

18. Poems, Songs, and Ballads of the Sea. 

*^ This Series of Books, from the veiy superior manner in which it is pro- 
duced, is at once the cheapest and handsomest edition of the i^oets in the marJteu 
The volumes form elegant and appropriate Presents as School Prizes and Gift- 
Books, either in cloth or morocco. 

' They are a marvel of cheapneis, tome of the volumes extradine to as many as 700, and even 
f^^^^^^ P""'^.*"^ ^ao^ P*per in a beautiAilly dear type. Add to this, that they •n pro* 
^•^v T*"'*^ ^'^ ^"^°^ engravings, are elegantly and tastefully bound, and that they aw 
published at 3s. 6d. each, and our recommendation of them is complete.'— >S'Miln«««i». 



WnXIAU p. l^IMMO, LONDON AND EPINBURGH. 



NEW AND CHEAPER EDITIONS. 



NiMMo's Elegant Gift Books. 

Small 4/9, htauHfidly printed on st^ericr paper, hands9m^ bound in cloth extra^ 

bevelled boards^ ^t edgei^ price 60. tach. 

X. 

ROSES AND HOLLY: 

% B\iX iBook ini all X\i fgiar. CBSit^ ^^cigitml illustrations 

bs emintiU %xi\%i^ 

* This is reaUy a coDecdon of art and Utenuy gems— die prettiett book, take it all in all, that 
we have seen this season.'— /MMr/rvW TVsMf. 

II. 

PEN AND PENCIL PICTURES FROM 

THE POETS. 

nSitfr (Sl^oitr Slfautratfons lis ^% sunt cminntt Artists* 

III. 

GEMS OF LITERATURE: 

degant, iUre, anH 5«0ff^tt$»* SUttstratiH bg Uistinguisfieli fl^rtists. 

* For really liutnrioos books, Niauno'a " Pen and Pencil Picturas from the Poett " and " Gems 
of Liteiature** may be well recommended. They are hunmous in the binding, in the print, in 
the engravings, and in the paper.'— Jfi^mMSi' Ptt, 



IV. 

THE BOOK OF ELEGANT 

EXTRACTS. 

Vro&srls lEUustratcli bs t^r most nninent ftrtists. 

' This is one of the most attractive and beautiful books which we have seen for some time, and 
is really worthy of a place on any drawing-room table.'— /f«fn/t£ 

V. 

THE GOLDEN GIFT- 

IProfiisels illtisttati)! lottb ®rtj{tnal Snffrabinipi on OKooti bp 

eminmt Artists* 

' It consists of a beautifully illustrated selection from a wide field of author- 
ship.'— Z)tf/^ Telegraph. 

IContinued on next page* 



lO WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



NiMMO's Elegant Gift Books, 

CONTIJ^UED. 



THE POETICAL WORKS OF EDGAR 

ALLAN POE. 

IHtii^ CbtB^-Ct)^ #n0iiiil Jllnstncttons b]{ uuinent ^rtbt i> 

VIL 

THE LITERARY BOUQUET: 

GATHERED FROM FA VOURITE AUTHORS. 

|Pr0&scIj lUniirsttb b]{ omiunt ^duti . 

' Taking the book as a whole, it bears evidence of great good taste in the 
selections, and equally good taste in the arrangenient. Several of the engravings 
rise to a high pitch of excellence, and altogether the volume is el^ant in form.' 
— The Scotsman, 



THE 



VIII. 

TREASURY OF LITERATURE 
AND ART: 

A SELECTION FROM THE BEST WRITERS. 

Qltt^ nnnurosfl |Ilsstrattoiui b; todntnt ^rtxsts. 

' It contains much to gratify and delight ; in fact, a melange of pleasant things 
prettily arranged : ele^nt in all that concerns its mechanicil production, accept- 
able in respect to its literary value, and equally adapted for the library or the 
drawing-room table, for presentation, and for preservation.' — The BooksdUr. 

THE GARLAND OF POETRY AND 

PROSE. 

BY CELEBRATED AUTHORS. 

Wii\ ttsmtrons ^ngrabingg bj tmincnt ^^riists. 

' Compiled very wisely from our best known authors. Its contents are not 
only worth reading, but worth reading over and over again.' — The Publishers^ 
Circular, 

' Tried by every test, it is all that a table-book should be. Judged from a 
higher standard even, it passes muster bravely, — ^altogether a delightful volume.' 
— The Bookseller, 

X. 

NEW VOLUME. 

THE CABINET OF GEMS- 

GATHERED FROM CELEBRATED AUTHORS, 
Vtii^ 9<tBi<i^na lllnstrationi \s^ ^ndtuitt ^rtisti. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 1 1 



NIMMO'S SELECT LIBRARY. 



New Series of Choice Books, beautifully printed on superfine paper, profusdy 
Illustrated with original Engravings by the first Artists, and elegantly bound 
in cloth and gold, large crown %vo, price Ss. each. 



Second Edition. 



the 



1. Almost Faultless : A Story of 

Present Day. By the Author of ' A Book for Governesses.* 
'The author has written a capital story in a high moral tone.' — The Court 
Journal, 

Second Edition. 

2. Lives of Old English Worthies before 

the Conquest. By W. H. Davenport Adams. 

' The author's aim is to illuminate, what may be regarded as obscure, certain 
periods of historic England, accompanied with biographical sketches. The 
book is beautifully bound and printed, and cannot fail to command popular sup- 
port. * — Courant. 

Second Edition. 

3. Every -day Objects; or, Picturesque 

Aspects of Natural History. By W. H. Davenport Adams. 

Third Edition. 

4. My Schoolboy Friends: A Story of 

Whitminster Grammar School. By AscOTT R. Hope, Author of 
'A Book about Dominies,' ' Stories of School Life,' etc. 

***My Schoolboy Friends" is a most interesting book. It has many attrac- 
tive qualities, which are sure to win for it a wide and lasting popularity among 
the best sort of readers. Boys, for whom it is especially written, will thoroughly 
enjoy it.* — Westminster Review, 

Second Edition. 

5. Drifted and Sifted ; A Domestic 

Chronicle of the Seventeenth Century. 
' The author of this interesting, and we may add pathetic, story appears to 
possess the art of reproducing bygone times with much ability.' — The Record, 

6. Warrior, Priest, and Statesman; or, 

English Heroes in the Thirteenth Century. By W. H. Davenport 
Adams. 

7. Totty Testudo. The Life and Wonder- 

ful Adventures of Totty Testudo. An Autobiography by Flora F. 
Wylde. 

' The book is of engrossing interest, and the reader will be astonished, as he 
lays it down, to find that he has been able to get so much entertainment and 
instruction from the personal adventures of a tortoise.'— /wz'^riwyj Courier, 

8. On Holy Ground ; or. Scenes and In- 

cidents in the Land of Promise. By Edwin Hodder, Author of 
* Memories of New Zealand Life,* * The Junior Clerk,* etc. 



1 2 WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



NIMMO'S 

jFibe ^fiilUng iUustrateli ^iti Booits. 



Crottm Svc, beauHfuUy printed on superfine paper^ profusely lUus- 
irated by eminent Artists^ and richly bound in cloth and gpld^ and 
gilt edg^^pne^ $/• each. 

SscoNP Editio^t. 

1. Sword and Pen; or, English Worthies 

in the Reign of Elizabeth. Bj W. H. Dav^port Adams. 

'A more wholesome book lor young rea4e^ we have seldom seen.' — The 
Aiherueum. 

SscoND Edition, 

2. Norrie Seton ; or, Driven to Sea. By 

Mis. Gbo&gb Cupples, Author of ' Unexpected Pleasures,' etc. 

' Mr& Cupples has giyen to the boys in this volume just the soit of sea-stoiy 
with which they will be delighted. '~ri^ Scotsman, 

Second Edition, 

3- The Circle of the Year ; op, Studies of 

Nature and Pictures of the Seasons. By W. H» Davbnport Adams. 

'Its purpose is to tell both young and old, but especially the fonner, how 
much of interest there is in everything connected with nature.' — BeU*s Messenger, 

Second Edition. 

4. The Wealth of Nature : Our Food Sup- 
plies from the Vegetable Kingdom, By the Rev. John Montgomxet^ 
A.M. 

' It would be difficult to put into the hands of any boy or girl a volume which 
more equally combines the instructive and interesting in literature.' — N. B, Matin 

Fourth Edition. 

5- Stories of School Life. By Ascott R. 

Hope. 

6. Stories of French School Life. By 

Ascott R. Hope. 

' We were among the many who greatly admired Mr. Hope's *' Stories of 
School Life" and " Stories about Boys," and when we found that he had under- 
taken to illustrate French school life, we gladly opened the volume. The stories 
are interesting in the highest degree ; they appeal to the best sympathies of the 
lads for whom they are written. They set forth the right and the true against the 
fabe, and they are full of good, hearty humour.'— /W/i^ C^nion, 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 1 3 

'Bofd^ WaxhB Irs ^&^ ^1^ at ' Ptairm 0nr Pome.' 

Aggregate sale of the follcwing popular works^ 162,000 copies. 



Crown 8vo» doth extra, gilt side and edges, One Hnndxed and TUxd ThooBand, 

price 3S. 6d., 

1. HEAVEK OTTB HOME. We haye no Bationr but Jesiu, and no 

Home but Heaven. 



^ *The author of the Tolume before as endeavoun to describe what heaven is, as shown by the 
light of reason and Scripture ; and we promise the reader many charming pictiues of heavenly 
buss, founded upon undeniable authority, and described with the pen of a dramatist, which can- 
not lail to elevate the soul as well as to delight the imagination. . . . Part Second proves, in a 
manner as beautiful as it is convincing, the doctrinb or thb kkcognition or fbisnds in 
HBAVBN,->« subject of which the author makes much, introducing many touching scenes of 
Scripture celebrities meeting in heaven and discoursing of their experience on eaxth. Part Third 

OBMONSTRATBS THB INTBBBST WHICH THOSB IN HBAVSN FBBL IN BARTH, AND PROVBS, WITH 
BBMARKABLB CLBARNBSS, THAT SUCH AN IlfTBBBST BXISTS NOT ONLY WITH THB ALMIGHTY 
AND AMONG THB ANCBI^ BUT ALSO AMONG THB SPIRITS 09 DBPARTBD FRIBNOS. We un- 
hesitatingly give our opinion ^t this volume is one of the most delightful productions of a 
religious character which has appeared for some time ; and we would dnire to see it pass into 
extensive circulation.'— ^Piltu^var Herald, 

A CHEAP EDITION OF 'HEAVEN OUR HOME/ 
In crown 8vo, doth limp, price is. 6d., is also published. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt side and edges, Thlrty-flxtrt Thonaand, price 3s. 6d.9 

2. MEET FOB HEAVEIT. A State of Oraoe npon Earth the only 

Preparation for a State of Glory in Heaven. 
'The author, in his or her former work, *' Heaven our Home,* portrayed a social hbavbw, 

WHBRB SCATTERBO rAMILIBS MBBT AT LAST IN LOVING INTBRCOURSB AND IN POSSBSSION 09 

PBRrscT RBCOGNiTiON. to Spend a never-ending eternity ofpezcc and love. In the present work 
the individual state of the children of God is attempted to be unfolded, and more especially the 
state of probation which is set apart for them on earth to fit and prepare erring mortals for the 
society of the saints. . . . The work, as a whole, displays an originality of conception, a flow 
of language, and a closeness of reasoning rarely found in religious publications. . . . The author 
combats the pleasing and generally accepted belief, that dbatmwill bppbct anbntirbchancb 
ON THB SPIRITUAL CONDITION OP OUR SOULS, and that all who enter into bliss will be placed on 
a common level.' — Glasgow HertUd. 

A CHEAP EDITION OF 'MEET FOR HEAVEN,' 
In crown 8to, cloth limp, price is. 6d., is also published. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt side and edges, Twenty-flnt Thoniand, price 3s. 6d., 

3. LIFE IN HEAVEN. There, Faith is changed into Sight, and Hope 

is passed into blissful Fruition. 

' This is certainly one of the most remarkable works which have been issued from the press 
during the present generation : and we have no doubt it will prove as acceptable to the public as 
the two attractive volumes to which it forms an appropriate and beautiful sequel.' — ChelUnkam 

A CHEAP EDITION OF 'LIFE IN HEAVEN,' 
In crown 8vo, cloth limp, price is. 6d., is also published. 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt side and edges, Seyenth Thonaand, price 3s. 6d., 

4. OHBIBT'B TBAHBFIGUEATION j or. Tabor's Teachings. A 

Glimpse of Christ's Glory and Intercourse with His People for Ever. 

' The main subjects discussed in this new work are, Christ's glory and eternal intercourse with 
His people. These are developed with great power of thought and great beauty of language. 
Hie book is sure to meet with as flattering a reception as the author's former works.'— 74« 



1 4 WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 

Demy Svo, e/M, price lor. 6</., 

JAMIESON'S SCOTTISH 
DICTIONARY. 

Abridged from the Dictionazy and Supplement (in 4 vols. 4to) by John 
Johnstons. An entirely New Edition, Revised and Enlarged, by John 
LONGMUIR, A.M., LL.D., fonnerly Lecturer in King's College and Uni- 
versity, Aberdeen. 

In Four Volumes bound in Two^ roxhurgk sfyle^ crown Ssv, 

clotht price I2x., 

THE PEOPLE'S EDITION OF 

TYTLER'S 
HISTORY OF SCOTLAND, 

VBOIC THB AOOBBBION OF AT.TtTANDHB IIL TO THB UNION. 

' The most blilliant age of Scotland is fortunate in haring found a historian whose sound jndg- 
ment is accompanied by a graceful liveliness of imagination. We venture to predict that this book 
will soon become, and long remain, the standard History of Scotland. '^^imrirn^ Rtview. 

* The want of a complete History of Scotland has been long felt ; and from the wpeastuea which 
the volume before us gives of the author's talents and capacity for the task he has undertaken, it 
may be reasonably inferred that the deficiency will be very ably supplied. The descriptioDs of 
the battles are concise, but full of spirit. The events are themselves of the most romantic kind, 
and are detailed in a very picturesque and forcible style.' — Timtt. 

COMPLETION OF THE COPYRIGHT EDITION OF 

WILSON'S 

TALES OF THE BORDERS, 

AND OF Scotland: 

HZBTOBIOAXik TRADITZONABT, AND HCAOINATIVB. 

Edited by ALEXANDER LEIGHTON, 
One of the Original Editors and Contribators. 

In annouicing the completion of the Copyright Edition of the Border Tales, 
the Publisher does not cbnsider it necessary to say anything in recommendation 
of a work which has stood the test of a general competition, and which has in- 
creased in public favour with its years. Equally suited to all classes of readers, 
it has been received with delight in the school-room, the drawing-room, the par- 
lour, and the village reading-room. Many of the Tales have been publicly read. 
The high tone of its morality renders it an admirable small library for young 
members of the family. 

The new Edition is comprised in Twenty-four Volumes, sewed in elegant 
wrapper, price is. each. Each volume is complete in itself, forming an inde- 
pendent collection of stories. The work may also be had in Twelve Double 
volumes, handsomely bound in cloth, price 5s. each, or in roxburgh, gilt top, 
4s. each, and in substantial quarter calf and half calf bindings, suitable for 
libraries, etc. 

Those who already possess the first twenty Volumes are recommended to com- 
plete their sets by purchasing the four New Volumes, the last of which contains 
a Steel Portrait of the Editor and principal contributor, Alexander Leighton, 
with a copious Glossary. 



WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 1 5 



In crown 8vo, beautifully bound in cloth extra, full of Engravings and Coloured 

Pictures, price 3s. 6d., or gilt edges, price 4s., 

THREE HUNDRED BIBLE STORIES 

AND 

THREE HUNDRED BIBLE PICTURES. 
A PICTORIAL SUNDAY BOOK FOR THE YOUNG. 



In foolscap 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth, price is., 

HEALTH AND LONG LIFE; 

OR, HOW TO LIVE FOR A HUNDRED YEARS. 
By R. SCOTT CHRYSTAL. 

In foolscap 8vo, beautifully printed in carmine and black, with coloured 
title-page, cloth extra, gilt side and edges, price 3s. 6d., 

THE LITTLE FOLK'S JBIRTH-DAY 

BOOK; 

Or, Something Good about Children, Child-life, Flowers, etc., for 

Every Day in the Year. 

Selected and Arranged by C. B., 
Compiler of the * Birth-day Book of Proverbs.* 

Sixth Thousand, 
In crown 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, price 2s. 6d., 

THE BIRTH-DAY BOOK OF 

PROVERBS: 

Consisting of a Serious, Satirical, or Humorous Sentence, Proverb, and Verse of 

Poetry for every Day in the Year. 

By C. B. 

*«* Elegantly printed in Two Colours, with Carmine Border, and interleaved 
so as to form a Diary for the entry of Birth-days, etc. 



Crown 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, price 6$., 

THE national MELODIST: 

Two Hundred Standard Songs, with Symphonies and Accompaniments for the 

Pianoforte. 

Edited by J. C. KIESER. 

%* This Velnms cotuitU of a CoUection o/tht most popular Sngtish, Scotch, Irish, 
mttd American Songs, and is at ones ths ckea/est and btst Puhlishsd. 

— ^' T ■ III I -■ »■— - ■ — ■■»■■■ ■■■■^ I » ■■ » ■ ■ I I .^fc^^.^ 

In crown Svo, cloth limp, price is. 6d., 

THE WAY AND THE LIFE. 

By EDWIN HODDER, 
Author of • The Junior Clerk,' etc 



l6 WILLIAM P. NIMMO, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



NEW WORKS JUST READY. 



CHEAP EDITION OF THE EDINA BURNS. 

In Crown 4to, price I2s. 6d., el^^tly bound in cloth, extra gilt and gilt edges, 

and beautifully printed on toned paper by Mr. R. Clark, Edinburgh, 

the popular Drawing-room Edition of the 

POEMS AND SONGS BY 
ROBERT BORNS. 

With lUastrationB by Herdman, Waller H. Baton, Sam. Bough, Gonrlay 
Bteell, D. O. HIU, J. M'Whlrter, and other eminent Soottiah Artists. 

SoHtes of % IPrtss on i^e Jirgt ^biiton. 

' We do not know any other edition of Burns so well fitted fior the drawing-room table.*— 
Daify News. 

' This edition deserves the popularity it has already gained. '-^4T/«n/<x/ Review. 

' We fthould imagine that every Scotchman who can will buy it for the honour of his country. 
Englishmen should do the same for their own sakes. It does the publisher great credit.'— 
Daily 'feUgrapk. 



unaio's MTioiJAi iibraet. 

Just ready, in crown 8vo, with Steel Frontispiece and Vignette, handsomely 

bound, roxburgh style, price 5s., 

THE 

ENGLISH CIRCUMNAVIGATORS: 

THE MOST REMARKABLE VOYAGES ROUND THE WORLD 

BY ENGLISH SAILORS. 

[DRAKE, DAMPIER, ANSON, AND COOICS VOYAGES.") 

WITH A PRELIMINARY SKETCH OF THEIR LIVES AND DISCOVERIES. 

Edited, with Notes, Maps, etc., by David Laing Purves. 



To be foll<nved by *The English Explorers,* M^ more famous Land Travis 
by Sir John MandevilUt Bruce, Mungo Park, etc, etc^ and other Standard 
fVorks, uniform in size and price. 

This Series is also kept bound in cloth extra, full gilt side, back, and edges, 

price 6s. 6d. each. 

In demy 8vo, cloth elegant, richly gilt, price 7s. 6d., or in Turkey morocco 

antique, 2 is.' 

THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE 

TO KNOW, 

CONCERNING DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT AND EXPENDITURE, 

ARRANGED FOR DAILY REFERENCE. 

with hints regarding the intellectual as well as the physical life. 

By henry SOUTHGATE, 

Author of * Afany Thoughts of Many Minds, ^ ' Noble Thoughts in Noble 
Language,' * Gone Before,' * 7 he Bridal Bouquet,* etc. etc. 



9 



