


^ o^ 






^"^^ ^^^:.;e;iL^% ^'^^:.^''% ^^^:^^'>^ 




'<?' o: 
%<<^ 



^^ 



/ ft « s ' 



/^T^s' #^ ,, <- "/ ft. 






^ <x^' 



,<>9. 






A of*- 



■^^0^ 

,^^ ^ 



^^^ 



^^0^ : 











- ^^ 



.N^ 



,^^<5. 



.r 















%.<^^ : 















<!^ <^ 









•\.^^ 



<. 



'b. '.-' A** ... ^^ 










- ,^^ o. 











s^^ 





cO^.'V^''-,% cp^^!:^^% cp^^^_.;;^">^ 



■^^d< 

















93. ^0 



^ 



' « <- ^ ' ^\^^ <^ ' » « ^ ' A*^ 



<i5 Q. 












c-i -^ 



.^i ^^ 



>• A^ 









<^:' 



^^o^ 







,s^^. 



■a? -^^ 











PORTSMOUTH 



MONUMENTAL 



COOK BOOK, 



COMPILED 15Y THE 



LADIES OF THE SOLDIERS' AID SOCIETY, 



OF 



1^ O R T S M O U T tl, O M I O 



It is good to learn from the experience of others." 




' ' * * .■■:'\ 



11] 

PORTSMOUTH: 
JAS. W. NEWMAN, PRINTER, TIMES OFFICE. 

1874. 



4K 



^^^^ 



Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by the Ladies of 
the Soldiers' Aid Society, of Portsmouth, Ohio, in the office of the Librarian 
of Congress, at Washington. 



/7 5 



PREFACE. 



PREFACE. 



I do not |)roj)()se to enter into any disquisition on the art cuisine, 
though " what I know " about it might not be less than would 
prevent one from making such use of the materials of which 
food is composed, to keep one from starving. 

Those for the perpetuation of whose memory this book iscom- 
piled, suffered little on the tented or untented field for lack of 
knowledge of the art of cooking. They could prepare meals 
that their General could most generally relish, for Generals had 
appetites as well those who were " only privates." Whatever 
else was wanting, the}' were rarely without that most excellent 
condinaent that seldom fails to make even ordinary food palata- 
ble ; yet, good as it is, it is seldom in demand, never advertised 
or offered for sale, and when possessed, the possessor wants to 
get rid of it ; and compared to which, all other sauce would be 
but a saucy fraud. The sauce to which I refer has the signifi- 
cant cognomen of Hunger Sauce. For further particulars, in- 
quire within after having fasted — say, twenty-four hours. If 
you want to fasten what I mean on your minds, and know any 
faster way to do it, I shall still be your fast friend. If you 
would wait for a weightier definition, then dismiss the desire for 
the present, and if the opportunity to go to war should present 
itself, and your thirst for this special knowledge remains unsa- 
tiated, and you are hungry for a fight, you have only to enlist, 
draw your rations with the regularity and unstinted variety 
(vegetable and animal food in lively combination, is here meant) 



PREFACE. 



for which rations are noted, and you will not be long in attain- 
ing to a rational idea of what I am trying so hard to explain. 
Your hunger for fight will probably not survive your first skir- 
niisli, and possibly not your first night in camp, and therefore may 
not be longer dwelt upon. A change of residence becomes desira- 
ble when the atmosphere becomes heavy on . account of a sur- 
charge of particles of lead and iron, together with the unpleas- 
Miit smell of sulphur, and though such residence has been of 
long standing, it is just as apt to end in right down lying. And 
then should your mess pronounce your first mess of beans and 
pork an unpalatable mess, they will lay less stress on the short- 
comings of the second. While you improve they will appreciate, 
and cease to complain for conscience sake. 

Rotation in the office of cook begets a fellow feeling that 
makes us wondrous kind. Speaking of conscience, I am 
leminded that I have known it to lose its sensitiveness to some 
extent when a smoke-house was scented near the line of march. 
It made little difference whether it was March or September, or 
"forward march," a march was stolen on that smoke-house, and 
all of Bacon's moral precepts would not have saved that bacon, 
or brouglit a single tingle to the conscience. True, not every 
one would have taken that bacon, but all would have eaten it. 
Even the chaplain was not averse to a transverse section of the 
middle of a fine ham. 

So much for what I am not going to do. 

What I would gladly do, would be to pay a tribute to the 
noble women who, having given up those who wera dearest to 
them, and having bidden them go forth bearing their shields, 
and admonishing them, as did the women of Sparta, to return 
bearing them or being borne on them, immediately organized 
into societies for the purpose of rendering such a*id as would 
most speedily conduce to the accomplishment of the end sought, 
and as by one common impulse those societies, which numbered 
thousands, were bound together by a sentiment which arose to 
a high and holy enthusiasm, evincing a patriotism than which 



PREFACE. 



the world has known none deeper, higher, broader, nor more 
firmly grounded in the heart's best promptings. 

Actuated by a clear conviction that the cause they espoused 
was just, they, no less than the soldiers in the field, laid their 
lives on the altar of their country, and believing the cause was 
also God's cause, invoked His blessing on the consecration they 
would make, and believing that He would lead, however difficult 
the way, never hesitated to plunge into duty, however dark the 
adversity that loomed up against them. I would gladly portray 
so vividly the soul-earnestness, the abandonment of every selfish 
thought and purpose for the good of the boys in blue, that even 
now, at this distant day, the women so engaged might be held 
in yet higher honor for the deeds they wrought, and for the far- 
reaching results of those deeds. Were my pen a pen of fire, and 
had it the speed of the lightning, and had I for a parchment 
the blackness of midnight spread out all over the canopy of 
heaven^ and had I the language of angels, I yet could not suffi- 
ciently portray the grandeur of the work performed, or indicate 
to what extent victory hung upon those deeds. The war. was 
prolific of wounds, sickness and death; but amid all, these 
women ever kept pace with the rapid evolution of events, staying 
not for heat, or cold, or pestilence, or danger in any of its forms, 
and rarely failed to demonstrate that they were masters of the 
situation. Where there was a brow burning with fever; where 
there was a wound to be bound up ; wherever there was a soul 
to be lured back from the grave; where there was a heartgrown 
faint because its K)ved ones were not, and wherever mercy called, 
though but faintly, and woman could reach the spot, she was 
there, and to falter till the work was done, is not told in the 
annals, written or unwritten, of what women did in the war. 
Many of those who thus labored fell in the midst of their 
labors; others soon followed after the work was done; and oth- 
ers still live, upon whose heads the light of eternity is glinting 
in rays of silver, yet young in the thought that God permitted 
them to live and to labor in so great a cause, and to do and be 
spent in a reform so grand. They live and labor yet, deeming 



b PREFACE. 

their work incomplete until they shall have erected monuments 
to those who fell, and also to those who are yet spared to enjoy 
the blessings secux'ed by their toiling and their courageous dar- 
ing, and before whom is yet death's open door. Then to all who 
yet remember what those four dark years meant, when war hov- 
ered as a pall over the nation, and that the daring of our men 
and the exalted patriotism of our women saved it, I would 
say, extend them your help in this their crowning work, and it 
can not be long until their labor of love will be comj)lete ; and 
the monument they shall have raised to the honored dead shall 
also stand for a monument to the nobility of woman, but can 
not honor her more than that set up in the soldier's heart, which 
is, and shall be, more enduring than granite. 

I speak from the standpoint of one who knows whereof he 
affirms in all that pertains to woman's self imposed toiling dur- 
ing that dark period. Her heroism was none the less marked 
because she may never have seen a battle, for it required more 
than heroism to take upon herself the constant burden of care 
for the sick and the maimed ; that burden even sharing her 
pillow when she sought that rest that would enable her to take 
it up anew. Yet all this was her joy, her meat, her drink, 
could she minister with her hand and heart to the wants of one 
dying man. Now that the storm-cloud has receded far into the 
distance, and white-winged peace hovers smiling over all the 
land, and the record of the past wears a halo that only the 
recollection of duty done could impart, that the highest success 
may attend this final and crowning enterprise, is the wish of one 
whose debt of gratitude is such that he can not hope to repay 
or wish to forget it. 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS. 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS. 



BANKS. PAGE. 

First National 153 

Farmers' National 165 

BAKEKS AND CONFECTIONERS. 

Albert Knittel 156 

A. Seel 170 

BOOTS, SHOES, AND HATS. 

WHOLESALE. 

C. p. Tracy & Co 158 

Hibbs, Richardson & Co 159 

RETAIL. 

J. W. March & Co... 174 

R. M. Lloyd 178 

BOOKS AND STATIONERY. 

Geo. W. Watkins 164 

Valley Book Store 169 

BAKING POWDERS. 

A. D. Miller 172 

CLOTHING. 

Miller, Voorheis & Co 158 

Lehman, Richman & Co 171 

CONFECTIONERS. 
V. Reinhart & Co 163 

B. Augustin 173 



COAL DEALERS. page. 

W. W. Little & Co 165 

CARRIAGE MAKER. 
John Dice 176 

DENTIST. 

C. P.Dennis 167 

DRUGGISTS. 

D. R. Spry 159 

Davis & Jones 169 

Enos Reed 172 

H. P.Pursell 164 

George Fisher 166 

M. S. Pixley 178 

DRY GOODS. 

WHOLESALE. 

Jas. M. Rumsey & Co 154 

J. F. Towell 162 

RETAIL. 

P. Brodbeck 156 

W. A. Connolley 157 

J.N. Leedom 158 

R. Brunner 161 

W. H.Johnson & Co 168 

FIRE BRICK WORKS. 

Scioto Star Fire Brick Co 171 

Scioto Valley Fire Brick Co 176 



INDEX TO advektisi:mp:nts. 



FRUITS, GAME AND TOYS 

HAOE. 

W. E. Hancock 17:) 

FURNITURE. 

J. H. Wait & Son 155 

J. B. Nichols &C() 155 

Cabinet Makers' Union 156 

FLOUR AND GRAIN. 

M. W. Thompson & Son 171 

Geo. Davis A: Co 177 

(GROCERIES. 

WHOLESALE. 

Damarin & Co Ifili 

RETAIL. 

H. H. Buskirk KiH 

W. I. Gray & Co 106 

Fisher & Co 107 

John Wilhelm 107 

M. F. Micklethwait&Bro 175 

M. & S. Timmonds 177 

GASFITTING AND PLUMBING. 
John Jones 107 

HATS AND CAPS. 
Scioto Hat Co... 175 

HARDWARE. 

Hibbs, Angle & Co 156 

J. L. Hibbs &. Co 159 

HOTELS. 

Biggs House 101 

Massie House 101 

St. James Hotel 179 

Crawford House 180 

Walnut Street House 179 

INSURANCE. 

W. H. Bonsall & Co 173 

JEWELER. 
Ph. Zoellner 157 



LIVERY STABLES. 

I'ACJE. 

T. M. Lynn 104 

Yeager & Dice 170 

LUMBER DEALERS. 

n. Leet & Co 177 

MARBLE DEALER. 

Ch. C. Bode 174 

MERCHANT TAILORS. 

E. Miller 154 

A. Lorberg 170 

L. R. Morgan 172 

MILLINERY. 

Mrs. Nickells & Co 16:5 

Miss M. Lloyd 105 

Misses Coe & Keer 165 

Mrs. Trotter 160 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

John Yoakley 17:5 

D. S. Johnston 17:3 

NOTIONS AND WHITE GOODS. 

Reed & Peebles 170 

NOTIONS AND STAMPING. 
Miss E. Bell 174 

QUEENSWARE AND CHINA. 
Pursell, Ewing & Co 100 

STOVE DEALERS. 
H. Eberhardt & Co 175 

SEWING MACHINES. 

J. T. Grayson 152 

Geo. D. Selby 15:^ 

STONE DEALERS. 

Reitz & Bode 174 

TINNERS. 
Wilhelm & Conroy 167^ 



VALUABLE KECII'ES. 



c^SOtT^, 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Soup should not be distinguished by any flavor, all ingredients 
teing so blended that none seem prominent. A tin vessel is con- 
sidered best; never use brass or copper. Iron may be used, if 
"kept clean and fresh. A camp kettle is considered good, having 
a heavy lid, it retains the steam. 

Never let soup stand to get cold in the vessel in which it is 
<50oked. Pour it immediately into the tureen. 

Always put the meat in cold water, thus the juices are ex- 
tracted. 

Meat should be lean and fresh. 

Soft water is best. One quart of water to one pound of meat, 
IS a common rule; if the soup is desired richer, use less water. 

Let the meat boil very slow at first ; it is best to merely sim- 
mer, thus the impurities will rise to the top and may be skimmed 
off. The common flavorings are catsup, spices, celery, mush- 
rooms, onions, herbs, etc. It is best to be careful of seasoning 
of all kinds, particularly salt and pepper, as too little can be 
■remedied ; too much cannot. 

A wooden spoon is best for stirring soup. 

Mrs. Hale, in her new book on cookery, gives the following 
soup powders : 

Dried parsley, winter savory, sweet marjoram, lemon, thyme, 
'©f each two ounces ; dried lemon peel and sweet basil, one ounce 

[2] 



10 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



each; dry in a warm oven, pound, pass through a hair sieve, put 
it in a dry bottle and cork closely. It will retain its flavor a 
long time, and is a delicious flavoring. 

Stock, or broth for soup, may be made from odds and end* of 
meat, poultry, game, knuckle of veal, shin of beef, etc.; pour 
over a small quantity of water at first, and cook very slow uatEL 
the flavor and juices are extracted ; add more water, flavor witb 
herbs, vegetables, etc. Boil five or six hours slowly — some boil 
even longer. Let it cool over night. Skim off the fat, and it is 
ready for future use in soup. 

CORN SOUP. 

One old chicken, fat ; twelve ears of corn, one-fourth j>oao<f 
of butter, one quart of milk. Boil the chicken in two quails of 
■water, and, when about half cooked, take it out and stuff and 
roast it. Cut the corn from the cob and put into the water m 
■which the chicken has been boiled, (about three quarters of aa 
hour before dinner) the butter, thickened ■with a little flour; 
just a few minutes before lifting, add the milk, pepper and salt 
to taste. As soon as it boils, serve. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Mrs. J. L. WatkiiiB. 

Two quarts water, six large potatoes, two quarts milk. Slice 
the potatoes very thin, and cook in the water until quite tender; 
add milk, one tablespoon of butter; pepper and salt to taste; 
thicken with a little flour stirred in cold milk. It should no£ be 
made very thick. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take a small shin of beef, crack the bone, remove the tough 
outside skin ; wash and put it on to boil in a kettle with six or 
eight quarts of water, and two tablespoonfuls of salt. After 
boiling perfectly tender, (which will take quite four hours,) take 
it out of the liquid, to which add more salt, if necessary; v«^- 
etables to your taste ; one large tablesijoonful of scorched sugar. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 11 



a little sweet' raarjoram and thyme, (if lilsed,) and one small red 
pepper, cut in small pieces. Thicken very moderately with flour 
moistened with water to the consistency of cream, and stir in 
while boiling. About three quarters of an hour before the soup 
is served, put in eight medium sized potatoes, cut into quarters. 
Then make very small dumplings, with a quarter of a pound of 
flour, two ounces of butter, a little salt, and water to make a 
dough. Put into the soup and boil ten minutes. Last of all put 
in a little parsley, just before serving. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs, A. Pursell. 

To one whole can of oysters take one and one-half pints water, 
and the same of good milk. Let the water and milk come to a 
boil ; add half pound of butter, salt and pepper, and two table- 
spoonfuls corn starch. Pour in the oysters, and let them scald a 
few minutes. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Five quarts of water, two pounds of beef, two dozen okras, 
one dozen tomatoes, one teacupful of rice. Cut the okras in thin 
slices and boil a few minutes; pour off" the water and add to the 
soup. Boil four hours. Season with salt, pepper and cloves. ' 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Four quarts of water, beef and bones, (the bones from roast 
beef and uncooked steak) two onions, two turnips, two tomatoes, 
two carrots, a piece of cabbage, all cut fine. Boil until all are 
tender, then remove the bones and meat, and season with salt, 
pepper and thyme. 

RICE SOUP. 

To three quarts of beef stock, add one onion, one teacupful of 
rice, one pint canned tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. 



1 - 

i2 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

Six pounds of beef, four quarts of water, two onions, one pint 
of macaroni. When tender, remove the meat; add salt and 
pepper ; the macaroni broken in pieces, and one tablespoonful of 
tomato catsup, and one of flour. 

WHITE SOUP. 

A large knuckle of veal, four quarts of water, a little celery, 
two onions, two carrots, two turnips. Boil down to two quarts ; 
strain the liquor, and take off all the fat; add one pint of milk 
or eream, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and a little vermicelli. 
Liet it boil a little, and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Crack the bones of cold roast turkey ; boil in three quarts of 
water; add one cut onion, one turnip, a little rice, salt and pep- 
per. When cooked sufficiently, strain. Add a little flour or 
lioiled rice. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Four quarts of water, three rounds of the fore quarter of mut- 
ton, two cut onions, two turnips, one-half can tomatoes, one tea- 
capful of barley or rice. Boil four hours. Remove the meat 
and season with salt, pepper and thyme. 

BEAN SOUP. 

One pint of beans to two quarts of beef stock ; soak the beans 
^ver night, and boil them soft. Add pepper and salt. 

BRUNSWICK SOUP OR STEW. 

Two chickens, five quarts water; boil until tender. Remove 
jali the meat from the bones, pick it fine, and put it back into the 
liroth after having taken off" the fat. About two hours before 
4Jnner add six potatoes, chopped fine; after chopping them, boil 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 13 



separately for a few luinutes; draw off the water before adding- 
them to the soup. One quart or more of tomatoes, one pint oif' 
sweet corn, a little cayenne pepper, one tablespoonful Worcester- 
shire sauce; salt to taste ; add four hard boiled eggs — two chop- 
ped, two sliced. Before serving add one dozen small oyster 
crackers, one-half of them split. The corn and tomatoes should 
be added early enough to be thoroughly cooked. If the toma« 
toes are very sour, add one spoonful of sugar. Add eggs and 
crackers last. 



,^^E) 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

In choosing fresh fish, the gills should be red, the eyes full, 
and the flesh firm and stiff; if a fish is flabby, the eyes sunk, 
and the gills pale, it is stale. Split the fish well open, clean out 
all blood — hold the head in your hand to scrape off the scales. 
Wash them as little as possible, and dry or drain them ; nevejr 
allow them to stand in water. A few minutes before cooking 
salt them ; some prefer only to salt the water when they arje 
boiled. Use very little water, cover tight ; skim them ; boiS 
very gently. As soon as the flesh parts from the bone easily, 
they are done. Let the water be boiling before the fish is pat 
in. Serve as soon as cooked, as the flavor of fish is injured by 
standing. 

Eels should be glossy on the back and very white on the belly- 
Clean them well, skin them, and cut in pieces three or four inches 
long; let them stand an hour or more in salt water. 

Olive oil is much used for frying fish. By straiaing it, it may 



14 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

fee used more than once— any fat maybe so used, and it becomes 
richer each time. Never use for meat, oil in which fish has been 
fried. Roll fish in eggs and bread crumbs, corn meal or flour. 

TO BOIL SEA FISH (FRESH.) 

Soak, some time before dressing, in cold water, in which throw 
a handful of salt; always notch the back before putting them in 
the kettle ; salt the water, and let it heat gradually, boil gently, 
or they will break in pieces. A fish weighing eight pounds will 
boil in half an hour. 

TO FRY SHAD. 

Cut the fish in pieces, rinse and wipe dry ; rub over the fish a 
little salt, and when it has melted, roll them in flour ; heat the 
fat tried from salt pork, or oiled butter, nearly boiling hot ; lay 
in the fish, the skin side up, fry until brown, and then turn them ; 
cook slowly without burning. Serve plain. Horseradish makes 
a fine relish for fish. 

TO FRY MACKEREL. 

Take as many mackerel as are needed for the family, remove 
the skin, dip them in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, fry them 
slowly until done. For a sauce, pound the soft roes with sweet 
thick cream, and pass them through a sieve, melt some butter in 
alittle real consomme, or water, if no consomme is at hand, stir in 
the cream and roes, add a little lemon juice and mushroom 
catsup, heat it hot, and pour it over the fish after it is dished. 

HALIBUT STEAK. 

Wash and wipe the steaks dry; have ready some rolled 
cracker or bread crumbs, then beat up two or three eggs ; dip 
each steak into the beaten egg, then into the bread crumbs, 
(when you have salted the fish,) and fry in hot fat, lard, or nice 
dripping. Or, you can broil the steak upon a buttered gridiron, 
over a clear fire, first seasoning with salt and pepper. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 15 



STEWED COD FISH. 
Soak tfee fish over night. Pick it into small pieces, not over 
an iDch in size ; stew until tender in plenty of water ; pour off 
the water and season with pepper and butter; put in plenty of 
oailk, and thicken with flour. 

FRIED FISH. 

Having cleaned the fish thoroughly, sprinkle with salt ; let 
them stand a few hours, and wipe dry ; dust thick with flour or 
cora meal ; fry slowly, but have the fat boiling hot when the 
fish is put in the pan. 

PICKLED SALMON. 

Soak salt salmon tweaty-four hours ; pour boiling water over 
iJ lo cook, but change water while cooking ; melt butter, add 
two teaspoonfuls flour with two tablespoons of boiling water ; 
add pepper, and pour over when ready for the table. 

TO FRY BASS OR OTHER FRESH FISH. 

After they have been cleansed, lay the pieces in a cloth to dry 
tbem; if convenient, fry four or five slices of pork, or else take 
ifard and have it right hot ; season the fish with a little salt and 
pepper, and dip in a dish of Indian meal and lay in the skillet; 
iry a uice brown, and serve hot. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Dress them as for baking. Wrap them altogether in a cloth, 
or better still, put them in a clean bag and put the bag into boiling 
water. Let them boil half an hour. Pour over them, when 
Wished, cream-gravy or drawn butter. I don't know which is 
feest, baked or boiled fish ; but no one but a dyspeptic, whose 
tastes are all morbid, will be likely to prefer fried fish to either. 
The best way to salt the fish is before cooking, if you have time, 
by letting them lay, already dressed, in a pan of salted water over 



16 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



night, or for an hour before dinner. Drain thera from the 
salted water, or sprinkle salt over them if they have not beea in 
salted water, and lay them in your clean dripping pan, and put 
them in the oven. They need about half-an-hour's good baking, 
and then you may pour over them a cup of creamy milk, and 
set them back in the oven for a few minutes. It is best to bake 
them in some baking-dish that will do to set upon the table just 
as it comes fi'om the oven. 

BROILED SHAD (FRESH). 
Wash, wipe and split the fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper,, 
and lay it upon a buttered gridiron, inside downward ; when 
the lower side is browned, turn the fish. One of medium 
size will be done in about twenty minutes. Serve upon a hot 
dish, and lay a good piece of butter upon the fish. 

BROILED SHAD (SALT). 
Soak over night iu lukewarm water. Take out in the morn- 
ing and put it into ice cold water for half an hour. Broil as you 
do fresh shad. Mackerel may be done the same way. 

FRIED CAT FISH. 

Scald and clean the fish, sprinkle with salt, and keep in a cool 
place several hours. Dip the fish in grated cracker, meal or 
flour, and fry quickly in hot lard. Take up as soon as done. 

SALT CODFISH. 
Soak the fish in water over night, put in fresh water with a 
little soda, let it keep warm, but not boil ; change the water an 
hour before dinner, and let it scald ; take out the fish, and dress 
with egg sauce. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FRYING FROGS. 

Mrs. McGinley. 

For 1 doz. frogs, take ^ pound of crackers, roll very fine ; 
then take 3 eggs, beat very light ; add a very little water (cold) 
then pepper and salt ; dip the frog in the egg, then cover with 
cracker ; then drop them iu boiling butter; fry till a light brown. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 17 



G^Sam'0^# $PT Timh*"^^ 



SAUCE FOR TRIPE, HERRING AND LOBSTERS. 

Two tablespoons of mustard to a quarter of a pint of butter. 
This is a nice sauce. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Half a pint of boiling water; two teaspoonfuls of flour; two 
ounces of butter; mix the flour and butter together until thej 
are perfectly smooth ; stir this into the boiling water, and add 
salt to taste. If made with milk in place of water, less butter 
will answer. 

EGG SAUCE. 

This is made like drawn butter, with the addition of three 
eggs, boiled hard and chopped fine. Nice sauce for fish. 



18 VALUABLE RECIPES, 



.'^^^ 



OYSTER PIE. 



Line a deep dish with pie-crust, put in the bottom alayer of fine 
cracker or bread crumbs, then add the oysters, a part of. one 
quart, with pieces of butter, and a little salt and pepper, and a 
part of the liquor from the oysters. Over the oysters, put a 
layer of crackers or bread crumbs, season as above and add the 
remainder of the liquor, and cover with pie crust. Cut a hole 
in the top of the crust, and bake one hour slowly. Serve hot. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 

Butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with fine bread crumbs 
or rolled crackers. Put in a layer of oysters, and add bits of 
butter, salt and pepper, then another layer of crumbs, and so on 
till the dish is full. Pour part of the liquor over the above. 
Bake one quart of oysters half an hour. Have crumbs on the top 
dish. 

HOW TO PICKLE OYSTERS FOR LUNCH. 

Cook them until they burst open, strain off the liquid, add 
vinegar, allspice and whole black pepper. Let them stand for a 
day. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 19 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Dip tliem in batter made of eggs and bread crumbs ; season 
"With nutmeg, mace and salt. Fry in lard until brown. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take the largest oysters from their liquor and lay them on a 
•clean cloth, to absorb the moisture. Have ready several beaten 
eggs and crackers, crushed fine. In the frying pan heat enough 
nice butter to cover the oysters entirely. Dip each oyster first 
in the egg, then in the cracker, rolling it over, that it may 
become completely incrusted. Drop them carefully into the 
frying pan and fry quickly, to a light brown. Do not let them 
lie in the pan au instant after they are done. 



20 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



^*^^^:) 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

The great point in cooking meats is to have them tender,. 
without wasting the juices. 

Most cooks think hard boiling necessary; on tlie contrary, by 
simmering slowly in as little water as possible, the meat will be 
more savory and tender. 

In boiling, allow from eighteen to twenty minutes to every 
pound of meat. 

Put fresh meat in hot, salted meat in cold, water. 

Never let meat stand in the water after it is done. 

Save all liquors in which meats have been boiled for soup. 

Skim off all scum rising— you may aid it in rising by throwing 
in a very little cold water. 

The sirloin is best for roasting. 

The round is best for boiling. 

For steak, the inside of the sirloin is considered best ; cut 
about three-fourths of an inch thick. 

Frying is considered the poorest way of cooking meat, as the 
hot fat renders them indigestible. Broiled or baked steak h 
better. 

Use the suet to fry steak; it is healthier than any other fat. 

The juice which flows from the meat is the best gravy. Sea- 
son, and if too thin, sift in a little flour; if too greasy, skim. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 21 



HEAD CHEESE. 
This is made of the head, ears and tongue. Boil in salted 
water until tender; remove the bones and chop fine. Season 
with salt, pepper and sage, with a little vinegar. Mix all to- 
gether thoroughly ; pack in bowl; press down by putting a plate 
on the top; (first wet the plate;) in a day's time this will be 
ready for use. This is generally eaten cold for tea, with vinegar 
and mustard, but can be cut in slices, seasoned slightly with 
mustard, and warmed in a frying pan with enough butter to 
prevent burning. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

One weighing twelve pounds should boil five or six hours, A 
very nice way to cook a ham is to boil it half the time it takes 
to cook it, then take off the skin and cover the fat side with 
grated cracker or bread crumbs, and lay it into a dripping pan. 
Let it cook the remainder of the time. In cooking it in this 
way, the ham is much sweeter and more delicate. 

TO FRY HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut your ham thin and take ofi' the rind; if very salty, pour 
hot water over the slices, but do not let it remain long, as it 
spoils the taste of the meat; wipe dry and lay in a hot skillet, 
and turn in a minute or two. The secret of frying ham nicely 
is to do it quickly. Never put the slices in until the skillet is 
bot, and, when done, lay on a warm dish. Break your eggs sep- 
arately into the skillet, after the ham has been removed, and as 
they begin to fry, dip the boiling fat over them until they are 
<lone. This prevents the necessity of turning them. Serve hot. 

SAUSAGES. 

The proper seasoning is salt, pepper, sage, summer savory, or 
thyme. They should be one-third fat, the remainder lean, finely 
chopped, and the seasonings well mixed and proportioned, so that 



22 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



one herb may not predominate over the others. If skins arc 
used, they cannot be prepared with too much care; but they are 
about as well made into cakes. Spread the cakes on a clean, white 
wood board, and keep them in a dry, cool place. Fry them long 
and gently. Serve with potatoes, plain stewed apples, without 
sugar, baked sour apples, or sour pickles. 

LARD. 

Leaf lard is the nicest for all cooking purposes. Skin all the 
fat that is to be tried into lard, and commence by frying gently 
a little leaf lai'd, or your fat will scorch; let it cook slowly, and 
dip off the fat as fast as it is liquified, and strain it through Sk 
cloth ; when all is strained that can be dipped off, squeeze the- 
remainder by itself in the cloth. If the lard is to be used for 
cooking, salt it a trifle; but, if for burning in lard lamps, salt 
would be injurious. If the fat is not skinned before trying, the 
gluten in the skin will make the lard impure and frothy. Save- 
the scraps and skins for soap grease. 

SUPERIOR PORK AND BEANS. 

Look over the beans and put them to soak the evening previous^ 
to cooking, in soft water ; parboil and throw off the water twice;; 
prepare a piece of pork and put it in the beans with the third 
water ; let the water boil up ; skim and boil five minutes, and 
drain both pork and beans thoroughly. Have ready boiling wa- 
ter; put the beans and pork in the pot with as little water as- 
will cover them ; simmer gently until tender. The water should 
all be evaporated when done, leaving the beans nearly dry. 
Taste, and if not sufficiently salted by the pork, season with more> 
but be careful not to get too much salt. Spread the beans evenlj 
in a baking dish ; slash the pork and put it on a pan by itself to 
bake; it should be handsomely browned. Stir up the beans 
often, until within twenty minutes of dinner time, then spread 
them evenly and let them brown. If they do not look sufficiently 
brown, wet them over with egg, and brown with hot iron or any 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 23 



other manner convenient. Lay the pork in the middle, without 
the fat which dripped from it in roasting. This will be found 
much more healthy than when prepared after the old rule of 
baking pork and beans in the same dish. Horse-radish, catsups 
and pickles are the best relishes. 

Stewed beans are prepared as above, and gently boiled in the 
last water with the pork until nearly dry. Beans should be 
cooked in soft water, or, if hard, with a small bit of soda in the 
water. 



SUPERIOR BEEF TO USE COLD FROM POOR PIECES. 

Soak in warm, not hot water, until fresh as desired when 
boiled. Then cover it with water, and boil slowly; skim the 
pot as long as any scum rises, after which cover the pot closely, 
that the condensed steam may fall in the pot, and boil steadily, 
until the meat will break into bits if lifted with a fork; when 
.sufficiently tender, skim it out, remove the bone, and mix the 
fat and lean together , put in a wide earthen dish, deep 
enough to hold it; skim the fat from the liquor, and boil 
the liquor down ; when sufficiently reduced, pour it over 
the meat ; lay over it a flat cover, and put on a weight of fifteen 
or twenty pounds, and let it stand all night. When wanted for 
the table, cut in thin slices, as you would head-cheese. The jelly 
of the liquor will make it firm, and if properly mixed the fat 
and the lean will be in right proportion through the whole. 
This is an excellent way to manage the poor pieces of corned 
beef. The gristle will be tender, and every part good. The 
gelatine of the muscles will be saved ; though not considered 
particularly nutritious when used alone, it will assist in forming 
the meat into a solid mass, making it both agreeable to the eye 
and taste. If the beef is much salt, it should be soaked forty- 
eight hours, or longer if not sufficiently freshened, to allow all 
the water to evaporate, and the jelly to solidify, without tasting 
too much of the brine. 



24 . VALUABLE RECIPES. 



TO COOK DRIED BEEF. 

Slice it as ihiu. as possible, and let it lie in water, over night, 
or less time, if notvery salt. Stew it in water sufficient to make 
the gravy needed, until tender. Beat up an egg with a little 
flour ; add a lump of butter to the beef, and stir in the egg and 
flour. Toast bread ; lay the beef nicely on it, and pour the 
gravy over it ; add a trifle of pepper at the table, if relished. 

TO CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. Totcne. 

6 gallons of water, 10 lbs of salt, 2h oz. saltpetre, 3 lbs sugar 
or 1 qt. molasses, ^ oz soda. Boiled and skimmed, will cover 
about one hundred lbs. of beef. 

BEEF TONGUE SALAD. 

Boil one beef tongue perfectly tender, grate fine ; the yolks of 
four hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, with two table spoonfuls of 
olive oil, add 1 tablespoonful of mustai'd, 1| teaspoonfuls of 
salt, and enough vinegar to mix dressing with, and mix alto- 
gether. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. M. B. Boss. 

2 lbs. of lean beef, chopped very fine; 9 milk crackers rolled 
fine; 4 eggs well beaten, mix altogether thoroughly; seasoned 
high ; place it in bread tins, put thin pieces of butter or pork 
over the top ; bake 1 hour. 

TO COOK A STEAK. 

Take a tender steak, well pcunded orscored; season with salt 
and pepper. Have the skillet quite hot, put in the steak, and 
with a knife, keep stirring it about and pressing it, until it is 
very juicy, then cover closely for a few minutes ; turn it over 
and let it cook a very few minutes longer. Have your platter 
ready, heated and buttered. Put your steak on this, and a few 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 25 



pieces of butter on the steak. Sot it in the oven until the butter 
«nelts, when it is ready for the table. The meat thus cooked, in 
'its own juice, seems much sweeter than any other way. 

BIEAT CAKES. 

3Ir/<.. W. A. HittvJiini. 

Chop pieces of cold steak or roast, add equal quantity of 
•chopped potato, season with pepper and salt; make into small 
•cakes, and fry for breakfast or tea. Very nice. Add onion if 
jou like. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut the liver in slices half an inch thick ; pour boiling water 
^over and let stand five minutes. Season with salt and pepper and 
<3redge with flour. Fry in hot grease, a nice brown. Make 
gravy of flour and milk. 

DIRECTIONS FOR ROASTING A QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Paper the roast all over, baste frequently, and cook thoroughly; 
if underdone, it is not fit to eat; when sufiiciently roasted, the 
■gravy which drops from it is entirely free from color ; remove 
■the paper half aii hour before taking it from the fire; dredge it 
with flour and baste it with butter until it has penetrated the 
srieat ; brown nicely. The first basting liquid should be prepared 
with a little butter, salt and pepper, to season the meat. Some 
;advisc to cut ofl the fore slionlder and lift the flesh with a fork, 
-tind season it with pepper, salt, butter, and a little lemon 
juice. If done, the shoulder must be replaced neatly, so as not 
to mar the quarter. It is easier to run a knife in the flesh in 
several places, making openings without removing any of the 
rflesh, and dust in pepper, salt and lemon juice, if relished. Serve 
Avith mint sauce, the gravy of the quarter, or plain. xVsparagus, 
peas and potatoes are the vegetables proper for serving with 
iamb; for relishes, use salads. 



•26 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



LAMB CHOPS. 

Fry them a light brown, in butter; then add a little water, 
flour, salt, and a dust of pepper to the gravy. Let it brown, and 
pour it over the chops. 

BROILED LAMB STEAK. 

Broil slowly until quite done ; then make a gravy with fresh 
butter, melted by the steak ; add a dust of pepper and a little 
salt, dissolved in a tablespoon of water. Serve with peas, pota- 
toes and salads. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Trim the slices free from fat, beat up the yolk of egg with grated 
bread crumbs or crackers; season with pepper and salt; dip ia 
the cutlets and fry in butter or lard, gently, until thoroughly 
done. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF MUTTON. 

Cut off the bone close to the flesh, and nicely trim the knuckle; 
pour over it milk, boiling hot, and let it lay until the milk is cold; 
coverit with cold water in the stewpan, add salt, and simmer gently 
until done. Remove the scum as fast as it rises to the surface of 
the water. It will take from two to two and a half hours to boil. 
Serve with boiled turnips, onions, potatoes and caper sauce; if 
the caper sauce is not to be had, make a sauce of drawn butter, 
flavored with celery. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. Hickok. 

Three pounds of veal, raw, lean ; one-half pound salt pork, 
both chopped fine, without cooking; six Boston crackers, rolled; 
three eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful pepper, one teaspooa 
salt, one teaspoonful thyme; press hard in a dish; bake three 
hours, Nice sliced cold for tea. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 2^ 



VEAL PIE. 

Prepare a plain paste, cover a deep plate with it ; set it in the 
oven until baked ; have ready veal that has been parboiled ; cut 
in small bits; lay the meat on the crust until it is evenly full; 
put in each pie a piece of butter as large as the bowl of a table- 
spoon, broken into small bits, a little salt and pepper, a spoonful 
of flour, and a little of the broth in which the veal was boiled- 
Put on the top crust, Avhich should be made richer than the bot- 
tom, and rolled thin ; bake immediately in a quick oven. Serve 
with potatoes and any other dressed vegetables. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mm. M. B. Rosa. 

Three pounds veal, chopped fine, eight crackers, well rolled ; 
mix with the meat; salt and pepper well, and a good quantity 'of 
butter. Pack it in a basin, cover, and bake three hours ; half 
an hour before it is done, take off the cover and let the top browa. 
When cold, cut in slices. 

CREAM OMELET. 

Five eggs; three tablespoonfuls of cream; beat the whites 
and yolks separately ; add the cream to the yolks ; then join tis<e 
whites quickly to the yolks and cream, with salt, and a verj 
little parsley, if desired ; have your pan ready, put in a lump of 
butter, and set it over the fire; pour the omelet into the paia 
just as the butter is boiling ; when cooked, lay the omelet 
together, and serve. 

DELICATE OMELET. 

Six eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and the yolks well 
beaten; a teacupful of warm milk, with a tablespoonful of 
butter melted in it ; a tablespoonful of flour, wet to a paste witk 
a little of the milk, and poured to the milk ; a teaspoonful of 
salt and a little cayenne pepper ; mix all except the whites — add 
those last; have your griddle very hot and well greased ; drop m 
a large spoonful; as soon as brown, turn over and serve 
immediately. 



28. VALUABLE RECIPES. 



OMELET. 

4 eggs; 1 pint of milk; 1 tablespoon ful of corn starch or 
flour; a small lump of butter, with a little pepper and salt ; 
beat well, and put it in a pan in the oven for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Or, 6 well-beaten eggs; 12 tablespoonfuls of milk or cream ; 
a lump of butter half the size of an egg ; salt and pepper to the 
taste; put all in a liright, buttered pan, and set it into or over 
the steam of boiling water; scrape it from the pan till it 
thickens, and serve immediately. 

HAM OMELET. 

jUi-s. W. a. Jlntchljix. 

Stir teacup of chopped cold ham in six well-beaten eggs; 
season with pepper and salt. 

BUTTERED EGGS. 

Two slices of toast; two eggs ; four tablespoonfuls of milk; 
sprinkle. pepper and salt on the toast ; beat the eggs lightly ; put 
the milk over the fire, and when warm stir in the eggs; continue 
stirring, until as thick as cream ; take it off the fire and stir it 
for a minute longer, then turn it on the buttered toast, and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have on the fire a pan of water fast boiling ; break each egg 
into a cup, and slip carefully into the water; when the white is 
set the eggs are done ; take them up on a slice, and serve oq 
toast or bread and batter. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Takeout yolks of hard boiled eggs, mix with them some light 
breadcrumbs, softened with milk; season well with butter, salt and 
pepper; fill the whites of the eggs with the seasoning; put ia 
paa, pour milk over them, and put them in an oven to brown. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



b 



TO BOIL EGOS. 

To try the freshness of eggs, put them into a pan of cold water 
— those that sink are the best; always let the water boil before 
putting the eggs in ; three minutes will boil them soft ; four 
minutes will cook the whites completely, and in six minutes they 
will be sufficiently hard for garnishing salads and dishes requiring 
them. 

TO FRY EGGS. 

Proceed exactly as for poaching, only instead of watei*, use 
butter or bacon. 



Q^\ 



ONION SAUCE. 

Boil some large onions in a good deal of water till they are 
tender; put them in a cullender, and when drained, pass them 
through it with a spoon ; put them in a sauce pan with a good 
piece of butler, a little salt, and a gill of cream ; stir them over 
the fire until tiiey are of a good thickness. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

6 nice ripe tomatoes; squeeze out the seeds; stew until soft 
with four tablespuonfuls of gravy or broth ; pass through a sieve ; 
season with cayenne pepper; if too thick, add more gravy; 
butter may be used instead of gravy. 

CELERY SAUCE FOR FOWLS. 

1 bunch of celerj' cut fine and boiled tender; add half-pint of 
creara and a small piece of butter rolled in flour ; boil all gently. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Mr 8. A. V. Sappington. 

5 yolks of eggs ; 5 teaspoons mustard ; 5 teaepoons sugar ; 1 
teaspoon allspice ; 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper ; 1 tumbler currant 
Jelly ; 2 tumblers vinegar; (one cup of butter, if you like;) put 
is on cold ; stir constantly, cook a minute or two ; pour in a jar, 
let it cool, and set in the cellar or some cool place. 



i'^O 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



Poultry should be plump, but not too fat. 

If the skin is full of coarse hairs, it is old. 

Lift the wing of a fowl, if young and tender, it will tear easily; 
M it is very hard to break the skin, the fowl is old. 

Be careful to cook poultry well, nothing is worse than the taste 
and appearance half done. 

Be careful not to break the gall bladder; you cannot wash 
away the bitter. 

To make an old fowl tender, put a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
m the water in which you boil it. Strong vinegar will do, but 
is not so good. 

If game smells strong, wash it in vinegar and water. 

Birds can be kept longer by plunging them, after they are 
cleaned, into boiling water five or six minutes ; then salt and 
pepper inside; wash them off before cooking. 

Cook slices of bacon with pigeons and rabbits. 

BOILED CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Take one quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
kilf cup-o-f lard, a little salt, and mix with water; roll the dough 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 31 



and cut in square pieces. Cut up a cbicken in all the joints, peel 
and quarter eight or ten potatoes, place some chicken and pota- 
toes in the vessel, season with salt and pepper, and lumps 
of butter ; over this place some of the squares of dough ; repeat 
this until all the chicken and potatoes are used, having dough on 
top. Fill the vessel with boiling water and boil two hours. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Prepare your chicken as for stewed chicken for the table; add 
some small bits of dough ; make a rich gravy of milk, butter, 
salt, pepper and flour ; prepare your crust as for pastry ; line 
your pan, if you like, with the crust. Add a top crust and bake 
quickly. 

PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. J. C. Gilbert. 

Three coff'ee cups of flour, one teacup of shortening, a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; cut with a knife till very fine ; add water enough 
to wet it up, and roll thin. 

TO ROAST A DUCK OR GOOSE. 

Add to the usual stufling of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, &c., 
a tablespoon of melted butter, a large-sized onion, chopped fine, 
a tablespoonful of chopped sage; mix these with the yolks of two 
eggs ; stuff" and sew up ; baste well. The giblets should be stewed 
in a very little water, then chopped fine and add to the gravy in 
the dripping pan, with a spoonful of browned flour. Serve with 
currant jelly. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY. 

Mrs. A. Pursell. 

Having secured a nice tender turkey, see that it is well washed ; 
salt and pepper inside, cut in small pieces stale bread, salt and pep- 
per, two tablespoons of sage, (after it has been rubbed fine,) two eggs 
and a lump of butter as large as an egg; over this mixture pour 
boiling water, to moisten, (not wet ;) stuff turkey ; salt and pepper 



32 VALUABLE BECIPES. 



outside ; dust flour, and roast about three or four hours, accord- 
iog to size. 

TO PREPARE A TURKEY FOR COOKING. 

Mrs. John jV. Lodwlch. 

Salt and pepper, rubbed on inside and outside; dry bread* 
crumbs, salt, pepper and butter; mix well tcgether ; rub outside 
of fowl with butter, put in oven without water, bake brown;, 
then sprinkle a tablespoonful of flour, add one pint of water, and 
baste well until it is done. 

A fillet of veal can be prepared and cooked in like manner. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY. 

Proceed as directed in roast fowls ; allow from two and a half" 
to three hours for a good-sized, tender turkey. The dressing of 
fowls can be varied by using oysters. 

TO ROAST A PHEASANT. 

To roast a pheasant, proceed exactly as in roasting a fowl.; 
allow from forty to fifty minutes for a full grown pheasant. 
Serve with browned gravy, acid jelly and dressed potatoes. 

TO ROAST QUAIL. 

Pick them witli great care, and draw them so as to leave all 
the fat in the bodies of the birds; wash and dry them nicely; 
stuflf them with bread moistened with melted butter and a very 
little water, seasoned with pepper and salt ; truss them nicely; 
and fasten the wings and legs in place with very small skewers ,. 
roast or bake them fifteen or twenty minutes, basting frequently. 
Toast some nice bread quickly on both sides, without burning; 
make up the gravy from the drippings ; soak the toast, lay the 
slices in order on the platter, allowing half a slice to each bird; 
remove the skewers and strings, set a bird on each half slice o.f 
toast, and dip the gravy over them. Serve hot. When the 
birds are roasted without stuffing, they will cook in from ten to 
fifteen minutes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 3S 



JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. W. A. Hutchinii. 

To six well boiled, boued, and chopped chickens, allow oae 
box of Cox's gelatine, soaked, until dissolved, in one quart of cold 
water; when the chicken is ready, add gelatine, and also the 
broth in which the chickens were boiled, which should be about 
three pints after boiling down ; season to taste. Put in deep 
dish, and turn out when cold. 

Soup meat prepared in the same way, leaving out the gelatine. 

TO ROAST A FOWL. 

Having nicely dressed the fowl, have ready a dressing seasotted. 
with pepper, salt and summer savory; fill the body of tlie bux!, 
sew up the opening, truss it nicely, oil it with butter, and put it 
before a moderately hot, but bright fire, or hot oven ; heat'tJie 
skin evenly as soon as possible; cover it with paper if there Is 
the least danger of its browning too soon ; roast pretty fast, with- 
out scorching, the first half hour, and baste the fowl all over 
every five minutes; after this, let it roast steadily, but rathec 
slowly, three-quarters of an hour, when, if young and tender, it 
will be done quite through. Stick a fork through the breast 
and thigh, and if the fluid which follows the fork is entirely free 
from blood, it is done. If not browned, replenish the fire, wet 
the fowl over with a very little yolk of egg, dust it lightly wtd\ 
flour, and let it brown evenly all over. Remove the skewers aad 
strings before sending it to the table. 

TO ROAST A PARTRIDGE. 

Prepare the bird and roast it in every respect as a fowl ; whea 
quite done, remove it from the fire ; game is ruined if overdofte. 
A. young partridge will roast in from twenty to twenty-five mm- 
utes, and an old one may take forty minutes. 



34 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



,^^e:) 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mm. H. A, Townc. 

4 chickens; 8 bunches of celery; 8 eggs (yolks only) well 
beaten ; 1 tablespoonful sugar ; 1 tablespoonful salt ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls prepared mustard; a little cayenne pepper; ^ cup 
sweet cream; 1 pint of vinegar ; 1 cup of butter or olive oil; 
boil together, stirring constantly, and pour over chicken and 
celery. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. E. B. Moore. 

2 large fowls boiled. Yolks of 9 hard eggs; ^ pint table oil; 

i pint vinegar; 1 gill mixed mustard; 1 teasponful cayenne 

pepper; 1 teaspoonful salt; 2 large heads of cabbage cut 

fine; pick chicken fine; celery will improve it. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Rhodes. 

2 large chickens, boiled and chopped ; 2 large celery heads 
cut with knife; 1 pint vinegar; 1 tablespoon flour; 2 table- 
spoons milk ; 2 tablespoons mustard ; yolks of three eggs; pepper 
and salt to taste ; | cup butter ; stir egg and seasoning together, 
pour the vinegar, boiling, on them— to be stirred into the salad 
when cold. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. So 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Dunlevy. 

1 common sized fowl ; ^ cup olive oil ; ^ jar French mustard ; 
^ pint vinegar; yolks of five hard-boiled eggs; 1 teaspoon 
ciBiyeune pepper; 8 stalks celery; salt; put dressing on just 
'before serving. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mig8 Mary Terry. 

To two chickens chopped fine, take nine hard boiled eggs; 
-chop the whites with two large heads of celery ; mix with the 
■chickens 1 gill of mustard, 1 tablespoonful of pepper, salt to 
itaste; then take the yolks of tl'C eggs, make soft with ^ pint 
'Of vinegar, ^ pint of melted butter. 



G^T$:^as^A2e*.ss. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Vegetables should be freshly gathered. Those that are wilted, 
may be freshened by letting them stand in cold water a short 
"itioie before cooking. 

Soft water is best ; if you have to use hard water, use a very 
small bit of soda, or carbonate of ammonia; be careful of the soda, 
too much spoils the flavor. Always use plenty of water, and 
boil fast. Always have water to pour ofi*, never let it cook down 
on any vegetable. 

Put vegetables on in boiling water. 

Never cook two kinds la one kettle, unless intending to serve 
them in the same dish. 

Never let them stand a minute in the water after they are 
done. 

Potatoes, when boiled, should always be carefully dried before 
serving. 



36 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

BAKED EGG PLA^T. 

Mrs. Powf'll. 

Take two moderate sized egg plants, or one large one; boil till 
soft, and squeeze well ; then take off the skin ; chop it, and put 
through a cullender, to extract as much of the water as possible. 
Take a small loaf of stale bread, grate it fine ; 3 hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine; mix them with the bread and -jf lb. of butter; 
then mix the egg plant in well ; season it highly with pepperaad 
salt. Put it in a deep dish : grate bread over the top to form a 
crust, and lay some pieces of butter over it. liake and .serve 
hot. 

TO FRY EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in slices, not quite half an inch thick ; put 
them in salt and water for one hour ; then take them out and 
wipe dry; pepper them, and dip them in boiling lard, and thea 
in bread crumbs; put tiiem back in the boiling lard, and fry a 
light brown. Sprinkle salt over them after they are fried. Serve 
hot. 

SALSIFY DRESSED AS OYSTERS. 

Wash and scrape salsify (as much as will be needed,) and boil 
it until perfectly soft, but not broken. Mash it, and season with. 
butter; pepper and salt to your taste. Beat the yolks of three 
eggs, very light ; crumb a stale loaf of baker's bread, and season 
with salt and pepper. Have ready a pan of hot lard and butter 
mixed ; take a spoonful of the plant, dip it into the egg, cover- 
it with the crumbs, and drop it into the pan to fry. When the- 
under side is done, put some egg and bread over the top, turn it, 
and fry a light brown. Serve hot, for breakfast or dinner. 

YOUNG ONION (STEWED.) 

Peel thirt}' young onions, all of a size; boil until tender; put 
them into half a pint of meltedbutter, and. half pint milk. Seas(H2i 
with salt. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



37 



TO COOK PARSNIPS. 

Scrape aud wash the parsnips, and slice them lengthwise ; boil 
in just enough water to cover them, until thoroughly done ; 
drain off the water, put in a piece of butter, pepper and salt. 
Beat up an egg with one-half cup of milk, pour over them and 
serve hot. 

TO COOK ASPARAGUS. 

Mrs. S. L. Wdfking. 

2 qts. of water, salt, and a piece of soda as large as a pea ; 
let the water boil ; put in the asparagus, after first scraping the 
hard ends ; when tender, which will be in oue-half an hour, gen- 
erally, pour off all the water ; season with butter, pepper, and 
plenty of milk, thickened a little. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Leave the onions whole, or slice them, as is wished ; put plenty 
of cold water on; when half done, pour it off" and pour over 
boiling water ; when tender, pour off the water, and dress with 
fuilk, thickened with flour ; season to taste. Onions cooked in 
this way, will agree with delicate stomachs. 

MACARONI. 

S. E. F. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with macaroni, boiled soft, then 
^ layer of grated cheese, seasoned with mustard, pepper and salt, 
and so on, until the dish is full ; if wanted very rich, add a little 
butter, then bake in a moderate oven. 

COLD SLAW. 

Mrit. M. B. Ro8a. 

Shave your cabbage into fine slips ; beat up two eggs, add to 
this one gill of vinegar and water mixed ; put it on the fire ; 
>yhen it begins to thicken, stir in a piece of butter, a little salt, 
■and a teaspoonful of sugar. When cold, pour over the cabbage. 



38 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 

Mrs. M. B. Ross 

3 eggs well beaten ; 1 teacup vinegar ; 2 tablespoons mus- 
tard ; 1 teaspoon of salt ; 1 teaspoon pepper ; 1 tablespooa 
butter. Let this mixture come to a boil, and when cool, add 7 
tablespoons of cream. Haifa cabbage, shaved fine. 

COLD SLAW. 

Cut the cabbage fine, with a slaw cutter, and then prepare tbe- 
following : one heaping teaspoonful each of prepared mustard 
and salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of butter^ 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of vinegar,, 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten ; stir all together, and set on the 
fire, stirring constantly until it thickens, then jwur over the 
cabbage. 

COLD SLAW. 

Mrs. W. A. Hutchins. 

Half head of prepared cabbage, tablespoonful of prepared', 
mustard, teaspoonful sugar, pepper and salt, and the yolk o£" 
one egg well beaten, and stir in a cup of boiling vinegar aa^ 
water. Mix well together, and cover for a few minutes. 

DELICIOUS SLAW. 

i head of cabbage, cut fine; 1 large stalk of celery, cut fine]:: 
a hard boiled egg, 2 oz. grated horseradish, and 2 teaspooa- 
fuls of mustard. Mix with vinegar, pepper and salt, to taste. 

FRIED RICE. 

1 pint of cold boiled rice ; 2 eggs, beat light ; 3 tablespoons* 
flour ; 1 pint of milk. Salt and pepper, fry in cakes on a griddle^ 

PRESERVING CORN. 

To 24 lbs. of corn (cut from cob,) add 6 qts. of water,. 3 oz^ 
tartaric acid ; dissolve the acid in the water before putting witbi 
the corn. Let it scald well, then can and make air tight.. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 39 



FRIED CORN. 

Mr». J. L. Watkins. 

6 ears of corn, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs beat light, salt and pepper. 
Slice off* the outer edge of the grain, and then scrape the heart 
from the corn, leaving the husks on the cob as much as possible. 
Melt one tablespoon of butter in a skillet ; mix all the ingredi- 
ents together, and pour them in. Cover tiglit and cook very 
slow — stirring frequently to prevent burning. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Six smooth tomatoes; salt and pepper; butter and sugar ; six 
pieces of buttered toast. Peel the tomatoes, place the pieces of 
toast in the dish in which you bake them ; place a tomato on 
each piece of toast, (not having the pieces too large,) put apiece 
of butter the size of a nutmeg on each tomato, also two or three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, scattered over them with the salt, and 
pepper. Bake one hour and a half, in a moderate oven. Serve 
hot. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. E. Glover. 

Take a shallow pan, put a layer of tomatoes, sliced thin ; 
cover this with bread crumbs; butter, pepper, salt; sugar or 
not, as you like ; then another layer of tomatoes, ending with the 
bread, &c. on top. Bake in a slow oven three-fourths of an hour. 

TO FRY TOMATOES. 

Cut some tomatoes in slices ; mix some corn meal, pepper and 
salt; roll the slices of tomatoes well in the mixture; have about 
a tablespoonful of lard, boiling hot, in the spider, and fry them 
crisp and brown. If desired to have them very rich, put a small 
piece of butter with each slice of tomato. 

TO CAN TOMATOES AND CORN. 
Take one-third of the quantity of tomatoes that you do corn ; 
cut the corn from the cob and scald and can. 



40 VALUABLE RECIPKS. 



BAKED COKN. 

Prepare exactly as for fried corn ; place in a vessel and bake ; 
t>eat the white of egg separately and stir in last. This should bake 
slow. Will take about three-fourths of an hour to one hour. 

STEWED CORN. 

Split the grains and scrape from the cob, letting the husk re- 
leain ; stew with very little water, merely enough to prevent 
l^urring ; cook slow ; season with thickened milk, butter, 
pe'pper, salt. Children and invalids who can not eat corn any 
-olber way, will find it to agree with them, by being careful to 
split the grains and scrape well. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. G. Yovng. 

€'ut half the grain of two dozen ears tender young corn, and 
Sicrape the balance with a ktiife ; 5 eggs, well beaten ; 1 pint rich 
isjlk ; ^ lbs. butter; salt and pepper to taste; stir a tablespoonful 
©I flour into the milk until smooth, then add eggs, corn and 
ssielted butter. Bake in a tin pan. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mary E. Drajyer . 

1 pint grated corn; Ismail teacup flour; ^teacup butter; 
salt and pepper ; mix well and fry a light brown. 

CORN PUDDING. 

One dozen ears of corn, cut or grated ; half doz. eggs ; 1 pint 
milk; -| lb. butter; pepper and salt. Bake half an hour. 

TO BROWN POTATOES WITH MEAT. 

Boil some nice large potatoes, take off the skins carefully, and 
al)'Dut an hour before the meat is done, put them into the drip- 
ping pan, having well dredged them with flour. Drain them 
fi-om any grease, and serve hot. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 41 



TO MASH POTATOES. 

Potatees ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream ; salt. Prepare the potatoes nicely by paring and 
washing ; put into a vessel, with a teaspoonful of salt, and cold 
water enough to cover them ; let them boil half an hour, or until 
tender ; then drain the water from them and mash them fine 
with a potato pestle ; add the butter, and cream, and salt to the 
potato ; mix until thoroughly incorporated, and they have be- 
come a smooth mash ; put the mash into a dish, and smooth 
with a knife, and spread over the top, the yolk of an egg, and 
place in the oven long enough to brown nicely. Serve hot. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Boil, in salted water, a little more than enough to cover them, 
from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to their age; add butter 
and more salt, if needed, and boil up once. When old, they are 
improved by putting a very little saleratus into the water in 
which they are boiled, say a quarter of a teaspoonful to half a 
peck of shelled peas. 

GREEN PEAS WITH CREAM. 

Two quarts of green peas; boil fifteen or twenty minutes; 
when done, drain off the water; season with salt and pepper, a 
email lump of butter, and a teacup of cream. Serve hot. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Cook in plenty of water, a small piece of soda and a teaspoon 
of sugar; pour all the water off, and thicken with milk and 
flour. Season with butter, pepper and salt. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Take as many large and equal sized potatoes as you wish ; 
wash them nicely, and wipe dry ; then put them in a quick oven 
for one hour. Serve as soon as done. 

[4] 



42 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



COOKING BEANS. 

Moore's Rural New Yorker. 

"If, my dear Rural, you ever should wish 

For breakfast or dinner a tempting dish 

Of the beans so famous in Boston town, 

You must read the rules I here lay down : 

When the sun has set in golden light, 

And around you fall the shades of night, 

A large deep dish, you first prepare, 

A quart of beans select with care; 

And pick them over, until you find 

Not a speck or a moat is left behind ; 

A lot of cold water on them pour 

'Till every bean is covered o'er. 

And they seem to your poetic eye 

Like pearls in the depths of the sea to lie ; 

Here, if you please, you may let them stay 

'Till just after breakfast the very next day. 

When a parboiling process must be gone through, 

(I mean for the beans and not for you ;) 

Then, if in the pantry there still should be 

That bean pot, so famous in history. 

With all due deference bring it out 

And, if there's a skimmer lying aiiout, 

Skim half of the beans from the boiling pan 

Into the bean pot, as fast as you can ; 

Then turn to Biddy and calmly tell her 

To take a huge knife and go to the cellar — 

For you must have, like Shylock of old, 

" A pound of flesh," ere your beans grow cold ; 

But, very unlike that ancient Jew, 

Nothing but pork will do for you ; 

Then tell once more your maiden fair. 

In the choice of the piece to take great care, 

For a streak of fat and a streak of lean 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 43 



Will give the right flavor to every bean ! 
This you must wash, and rinse, and score, 
Put into the pot, and round it pour 
The rest, till the view presented seems 
Like an island of pork in an ocean of beans ; 
Pour on boiling water enough to cover 
The tops of the beans completely over, 
Shove in the oven and bake till done. 
And the triumph of Yankee cooking's done." 

MASHED POTATOES. 

When the potatoes are thoroughly boiled, drain off the water; 
add salt and butter, and mash and stir with a potato masher; 
then add some sweet milk, and stir until the potatoes are both 
white and light. 

SAEATOGA POTATOES. 

Mrs. Mary E. Drtqjer. 

Pare the potatoes and let them lie in very cold water four or 
five hours, then slice very thin with a potato slicer. Have ready 
a skillet, two-thirds full of hot lard ; take a handful at a time 
and dry between the folds of a soft cloth ; when dry, put them 
into the lard, stirring continually with a fork, to keep the slices 
separated. Fry a light brown. Place in a cullender to drain, 
and sprinkle a little salt over them. 

TO FRY POTATOES CEISP. 

Peel aud slice the potatoes very thin, and fry in boiling lard, 
a few at a time; salt them as fast as fried, and set them in the 
oven to keep hot until all are finished. Send to the table in a 
covered dish. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Take cold mashed potatoes ; make in small cakes ; flour on 
both sides, and fry in butter until brown on each side. 



■44 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



RISING. 

A little brown sugar added to yeast will make bread or biscuit 
rise quickly. 

YEAST. 

Parboil and mash 6 large potatoes ; 1 pint of boiling (hop) 
water, and 1 pint of cold water; strain this through a cullender 
and add 1 teacup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful'of ginger, and when cool, 1 teacup of good yeast; let it rise, 
and then bottle it, always shaking up well before using it. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. A. L. Martin, 

3^ piuts of water; 1 handful of hops; 1 tablespoon salt; 1 
tablespoon of ginger; 1 teacup of sugar; boil this together; 8 
large potatoes grated ; stir in whilst boiling ; when cool, put in 
dry yeast. 

YEAST. 

Mias Nancy White. 

1 quart of mashed potatoes; 1 pint of hops; 1 teacup of 
molasses; 1 teacup of sugar; 1 teacup of salt ; 3 tablespoonfuls 
of ginger; 1 quart of flour; stir in a gallon of water with the 
above, and when cool put in 1 pint of "bakers' yeast;" let it 
ferment; then put it in a cool place. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 45 



r:^^ 



^"^ 



BREAD. 

To test flour, take a handful, press it tight; if it retains its 
form, it is good ; if, on loosening the fingers, it falls to pieces, it 
is adulterated. 

Keep the sponge moderately warm while rising. 

If the oven is too cold, the bread will be heavy. 

If not well kneaded, it will rise full of large holes. 

Good yeast, good flour, good heat and experience, make good 
bread. Here we find that practice makes perfect. An ounce of 
practice is worth a pound of theory. 

ROLLS. 

1 quart of flour ; butter or lard the size of an egg ; 1 teacup 
of yeast; a little salt; warm water enough to make a dough; 
kuead together at night; in the morning knead again and make 
into rolls and put in the pans, and stand until light; then bake. 

Graham rolls may be made in the same way, adding one table- 
spoonful of sugar. 

SOFT RAISED ROLLS. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

\\ cups of sweet milk ; 1 egg ; butter, size of 2 eggs ; h teacup 
of good yeast; 1 tablespoonful of white sugar; salt; mix in 
flour enough to make a soft dough ; beat with a spoon ; raise 
over night; roll out in the morning with as little flour as possi- 
ble, and cut and raise again before baking. 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 



TEA CAKE (OR RATHER BREAD.) 

Mrs. J. W. Collins. 

Rub iuto a quart of dried flour a quarter-pound butter ; beat up 
2 eggs with 2 teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
brewers' yeast ; pour this liquid mixture in the centre of the 
flour and add a pint of warm milk; as you mix it, beat it with 
the hand till it comes off without sticking. Set it to rise before 
the fire. Let it rise an hour, then make it in cakes an inch 
thick; set them in tin plates before the fire ten minutes, then 
bake in a moderate oven. These cakes may be split and buttered 
hot from the oven, or split, toasted and buttered after they are 
cold. 

MILK TOAST, 

Boii a quart of milk, and stir into it three ounces of butter 
mixed with a tablespoonful of sifted flour and 1 saltspoonful of 
salt; let it boil five minutes; have a few slices of toasted bread; 
pour the milk over and send to the table hot. 

POCKET BOOKS. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

1 pint of sponge to 3 pints of flour; 2 eggs ; 1 spoonful of 
iard; if too light, work it down an hour before baking — less 
time iu hot weather ; roll the dough out, and sprinkle over it a 
tablespoonful of loaf sugar and one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
m a little warm water ; work thoroughly, roll thin and butter 
the surface; cut with a large biscuit-cutter, turn the buttered 
e(%es together, and let it raise again. (A lump of dough that 
will fill a quart bowl will do to commence on.) 

MILK RISING BREAD. 

Take one cup of milk, one of water, a teaspoon of salt, 
and flour to make a batter; keep it warm until light, then warm 
milk, and mix the rising and milk with sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough ; knead it thoroughly; put into the paus, and bake 
as soon as light. 



VALUABLE RECEPES. 47 



NEW ENGLAND MIXED BREAD. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

1 quart of corn meal ; pour boiling water over it till it is well 
scalded ; when cool enough to bear your hand in it, put in half 
cup of molasses, and a half-pint of yeast (or less will do if very 
strong) ; 2 quarts of brown flour ; knead it well ; let it rise 
light and bake it in steady and pretty hot oven four hours; bake 
slow at first. 

BREAD GEMS. 

Take some pieces of dry bread ; soak them over night in cold 
water; in the morning trim ofl* the brown crust, squeeze out all 
the water; pour on milk; add flour enough to make a stiff 
batter, salt, baking powder; a tablespoonful of melted butter to 
every pint ; beat well, and bake in gem irons, 

RUSK. 

Mrs. Win. Van Wwjenen. 

A batter of 1 pint of milk ; f of a cup of yeast ; 2 tablespoons 
of sugar ; after rising add 2 eggs, 1 teacup of sugar, 6 oz. of 
butter, h teaspoonful saleratus ; when baked,- swab them over 
with milk and sugar, setting them in the oven for a minute or 
two to dry. 

TO MAKE BREAD. 

Set a sponge over night, with one pound of flour, and three 
or four tablespoonfuls of yeast, and sufficient tepid water to make 
it into a moderately thick batter. In the morning sift four or 
five pounds of flour into a deep pan, to which add the sponge, a 
little salt, and sufficient water to make a dough ; knead it well, 
and then return it to the pan in which it was mixed, and let it 
rise; when it is light, turn it out on the moulding-board and 
knead for five or ten minutes, and make in loaves. Butter your 
pans, put in the loaves, cover them and set to rise in a 
moderately warm place, and bake, as soon as light, in a rather 
quick oven. 



48 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Mrs. James H olden. 

3 cups sweet milk; 1 cup yeast; flour for thick batter; set 
overnight; in morning add 1 cup sugar; ^ cup butter; \ 
nutmeg; salt; flour to roll; knead well; rise till light (say five 
hours); roll ^ inch thick; cut into round cakes; when they have 
stood \ hour make a cross and bake immediately. 



Q^ntB^mT%*^ 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Harriet C. Damarin, 

1 pint of sweet milk ; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 1 
quart of flour; mix flour and baking powder well together, then 
add one heaping tablespoonful of lard in the flour and powder ; 
rub well together, then add the milk ; roll thin and bake in 
a quick oven. 

MUSH BISCUIT. 

Mrs. Dunlcvy. 

2 lbs. flour; ^ pint yeast; 1 pint mush; ^ lb. lard; milk 
to mix soft; let rise, then make into rolls. Rise again and bake. 

SHORT BISCUIT. 

1 pint of sweet milk ; 3 pints of flour ; 1 cup of butter ; 1 
teaspoonful of salt ; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Rub the 
baking powder in the flour well, then add the butter and salt; 
rub these in thoroughly, and add the milk. Mix as quickly as 
possible, and bake immediately, in a hot oven. A little more 
flour may be required in rolling out, but the dredge should be as 
soft as can be handled. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 49 



BATH BISCUIT. 

Mrs. Jag. Holden 

Rub into 2 lbs. flour, ^ lb. butter, and mix with itl pint varna 
milk, \ pint yeast, 4 well beaten eggs, a teaspoon salt ; let rise 
three fourths hour ; make into thick cake about the size of 
a dinner plate. Bake in quick oven. 

MARYLAND BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Jas. Holden. 

^ cup butter ; ^ cup lard ; 7 cups flour ; 1 teaspoon salt; 
v?et with water ; knead till smooth. 

SHORT CAKE FOR FRUIT. 

Mrs. Wm. Moore, 

1 cup of sour cream ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 1 teaspoon- 
fulofsoda; 3 large cups of flour; rub the butter and flour to- 
gether well, then add the soda, after powdering it as fine as pos- 
sible with a knife. When all is ready, add the cream, and mix 
as quickly as possible. This will make two medium size, to bake 
in pie pans, or can be baked in one cake in a dripping pan. 
Split the cake open as soon as it has cooled sufficiently, ami put 
in a thick layer of fruit and sugar. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

1 qt. of flour ; 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, rubbed in the same as 
pie crust ; 2 teacups of sweet milk ; 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar; 
one-third as much soda ; a little salt ; mix and roll out, working 
it as little as possible. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

1 pint of sweet milk ; 4 tablespoons of butter, or lard ; 1 tea 
cup of yeast; the whites of two eggs; yolk of one; 1 tabSe- 
spoon of white sugar. 



50 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Q^^PTn »^tt#^ ^^U^n*'^^:^ 



CORN JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mrs. M. J. Waller. 

1 cup of flour ; 3 cups com meal ; 1 cup molasses ; 2 cups of 
milk; 3 teaspoons bakiug powder; 1 tea?i)Oon salt; bake 
immediately. 

RICE PONE. 

Mrs. Powell. 

Beat 2 eggs very light; 1 cup of rice boiled; piece of butter 
about the size of an egg; put in the rice, while hot,^ pint 
sweet milk, ^ pint Indian meal ; stir well together, and bake 
about half an hour. 

CORN BATTER CAKES. 

Mrs. W7n. Moore. 

1 pint of sour milk ; 4 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of soda ; 1 table- 
spoonful of lard ; 1 teaspoonful of salt ; 1 small cup of flour ; 
corn meal, to make the batter just thick enough to bake; sepa- 
rate the eggs and beat well; add the whites just before baking; 
they may be made without the flour, but adding the flour gives 
them a more velvety appearance. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 

2 cups of Indian meal ; 1 cup of flour ; 2 eggs ; | cup o* 
cream ; 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses ; milk to make it quite 
thin ; 1 teaspoonful saleratus. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 51 



CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. E. B. Moore. 
1 qt. corn meal ; 1 qt. of water; ^ lb of butter; 2 tablespoon fuls 
^ugar; 6 eggs, and salt; 4teaspoonfuls bakingpowder in 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour; pour 1 pt. boiling water over corn meal, other 
pint cold. 

VIRGINIA CORN BREAD. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter, or lard, into 1^ pints of hot 
milk ; into this, stir a pint of meal; when cool, add ^of a jiint 
of flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, salt, and 3 beaten eggs ; mix 
well, and bake in pans. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. C. S. Green. 
1 pint of sour milk ; 1 pint of sweet milk ; one cup of syrup ; 1 
teaspoonful of soda ; 1 tablespoonful of salt; 1^ pints of corn meal ; 
1 pint of flour ; bake three hours in a slow oven. 

CORN BREAD. 

1 qt. sour milk; 3 eggs; 1 tablespoon butter; 2 even tea- 
spoons soda; salt ; mix to a batter, that will run off" the spoon, 
with corn meal ; bake, in pie-pans, about 1 inch thick ; or the 
same amount of sweet milk with 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

This bread is nice baked in small tin moulds; also, made 
thinner to fry as griddle cakes. 

SWEET CORN BREAD. 

3Irs. H. A. Toune. 

2 teacups of corn meal ; 1 teaspoonful of salt ; 2 teacups of white 
flour ; 1 teaspoonful of soda ; 1 teacup of molasses ; \ teaspoonful 
of cream tartar ; apieceof butter or lard size of a walnut ; about 
^ pint of sweet milk (or water) to mix very thin ; stir the salt 
and cream tartar into the meal, dry, and the soda into the 
aiolasses. 



52 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



.^^ 



RYE BREAD. 



Set a sponge at night, as for wheat bread, then sift into a deep- 
pan, four pounds of rye flour and one of wheat flour, to which 
add thesponge and a little salt. Mix with water sufficient to mabea 
moderately soft dough ; knead well, and return to the pan in 
which it was mixed ; cover close, and put in a warm place to 
rise ; when light, bake in a quick oven. In cold weather, add a 
little mush made of corn meal. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mr 8. Syler. 

1 pint rye meal; 1 qt. corn meal; 1 egg; 1 cup molasses ; 1 
quart water ; 1 teaspoonful soda ; beat well and pour into a tia. 
mould, with a close lid; boil in a kettle of water 4 hours ; take 
out of the mould, and set in a hot oven ten minutes. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. U. A. Towne. 

2 qts. brown flour, (not sifted;) 1 teacup sugar; 1 teacup 
yeast ; salt; warm water sufficient to mix: as stiff as pound cake. 
Bake hour and half, slowly at first. 

BOSTON BREAD. 

3 cups corn meal ; l^cups flour ; 1 cup molasses ; 1 qt. warni 
water; 1 tablespoonful vinegar; aiM soda and salt. Boil four 
hours. Bake two hours. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



53 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. E. B. Moore. 
2 qts. sifted Graham flour; 1 teaspoonftilofsoda; 1 teaspoon- 
ful of yeast ; 1 large teaspoonful of salt; mix the above together 
with a spoon, pretty stiff, melting it up with warm water. Let 
it rise about three hours, in a cool place; then add one coffeecup 
-of New Orleans molasses, and let it rise about an hour more, 
and bake about 1^ hours in a quick oven. ' 

BROWN BREAD CAKES. 

Mrs. R R. Merrell. 
One pint of sour milk ; one teaspoonful of soda ; one ta- 
blespoon of molasses or sugar ; one tablespoon of melted lard ; 
one egg separated, the white beaten ; one quart of unbolted flour. 
Bake half an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 

1 qt. of unbolted flour ; ^ teacup of molasses; a piece of butter 
about half as large as a hen's egg ; stir it up with sweet milk, 
and one small teaspoonful of soda, making it about the consis- 
tency of pound cake. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Three quarts brown flour, sifted closely; one cup good 
yeast; one cup molasses, with one teaspoonful soda well beaten 
into it; mix into a soft sponge with warm water, at night; let 
3-ise till morning; then mix into a soft dough ; let rise again 
aad work into loaves; let rise again and bake. 

STEAMED BOSTON BREAD. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

2 teacups brown flour ; 1 teacup white flour ; 1 teacup corn 
aneal ; 1 qt. of sweet or sour milk. If sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls 
vof cream tartar, and one teaspoonful soda — if sour, only soda. — 
Sieam three hours. 



54 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



c^wjis^rr jws. «s0«^^) 



SALLY-LUNN. 



1^ lbs flour; 1 pint of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls yeast; 3 well bea- 
ten eggs ; 2 oz. butter; let it rise two or three hours. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

6 eggs to 1 qt. of milk; 6 tablespoonfuls of flour; piece of butter 
the size of an egg ; one teaspoon of soda : beat the white of egg: 
separately. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

7 spoonfuls flour ; 3 eggs ; 1 qt. milk ; very little salt ; beat 
flour and eggs together, and then add milk. Bake fifteen min- 
utes in cups. 

POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. Geo. Johnson. 

1 cup of sweet milk ; 1 cup of flour ; 1 egg and salt, will make 
one dozen. 2 cups of milk, 2 cups of flour, and 2 eggs, will make 
two dozen. Beat your eggs separately, and very light, and bake 
in pop over pans. 

PUFFETS. 

Mrs. M. E. Draper. 

2 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; 1 pint sweet milk ; 1 quart 
flour; butter, size of an egg ; 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar ; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt ; 1 teaspoonful soda. Dissolve the soda in a small 
portion of milk, add just before baking. Bake in muffin rings^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. * 55 



SNOW FLAKES. 

] quart milk; 6 eggs : ^ cup of butter ; 3 pints flour; salt; 
beat it a great deal. Bake in earthen cups in a hot oven, 

SUTHERLAND MUFFINS. 

1 pint milk; 1 pint flour; 3 eggs; salt. Bake in small round 
pans or rings. 

MUFFINS, 

legg; two-thirds cup of milk : 1 heaping cup of flour ; 1 tea- 
spoon of yeast powder; beat all together well. This quantity- 
makes 6 muffin rings two-thirds full. 

MUFFINS. 

2 eggs ; 1 qt. sour milk ; 2 teaspoons soda ; 1 qt. flour ; 1 
tablespoon of lard. 

MUFFINS. 

To 1^ lbs of flour, 3 eggs, ^ lb. of butter or lard, a gill of 
yeast ; break the eggs into the flour ; add the butter and yeast; 
■wet up with warm milk; grease muffin rings, fill half full and 
bake. Put a pan of water over the oven, to keep the muffins from 
having a stiff" crust on top. This must be done in all these light 
breakfast cakes. 

MUFFINS. 

3Irs. To well. 
Warm 1 qt. of milk with butter size of two eggs; 6 eggs bea- 
ten, and mix with milk, and nearly ^ pint of yeast ; add flour as 
thick as can be stirred ; stir in a little soda \ hour before baking. 
Made in the morning for supper, or over night for breakfast. 

RYE OR GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

3 cups of rye; 1 of flour; 2 teaspoon fuls of cream of tartar ; 1 
of soda ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; 1 egg and 1 pint of milk. — 
For Graham muffins, the flour may be left out. 



56 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



'.^=^) 



BATTER CAKES. 

Mrs. Wm. Moore. 

1 pint of sour milk; 4 eggs; 1 teaspoon ful of soda; 1 tea- 
spoonfid of salt ; stir enough flour in the sour milk to make a 
Btiff featter ; then add the beaten yolks, the salt, the soda, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, after the soda, aud lastly the well-beaten 



WAFFLES. 

Mrs. A. Mc Far land. 
Take 1 quart of sour milk ; 1 light teaspoonful of soda, and 
1 teaspoonful of salt; 4 eggs, and flour enough to make a toler- 
aijlj stiif batter , put the salt and soda into the milk and stir until 
dissiJved and the milk is light ; then add the yolks of the eggs, 
a.a<d then the flour ; beat well, and lastly add the whites, which 
most be beaten to a stiff" froth. 

BREAD PANCAKES. 

Mrs. A. Pur sell. 

1 ^t. boiling sweet milk; 2 cups stale bread crumbs; ^ cup 
flctar; 5 eggs; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder (in flour) ; 1 table- 
spof.tQfu[ melted butter; 1 teaspoonful salt; soak the bread in 
theliot milk fifteen minutes ; beat smooth ; add the yolks, butter 
and salt, and finally the whites, whipped stiff". 



VALUABLE RECIPES, 57 

FRITTERS. 

6 eggs ; 1 quart sweet milk ; 3 teaspoonfuls fresh baking 
jpowder; salt; flour enough to make a batter ; beat the yolks 
and whites separately ; sift the baking powder into the flour ; 
:add the whites last, having them whipped very light; fry in hot 
lard. 

ALICE'S WAFFLES. 

1 qt. sour milk ; 2 teaspoons soda ; 3 eggs ; 2 tablespoons corn 
■meal; ^tablespoon lard; i tablespoon butter; 1 cup sweet 
jnilk; beat eggs separately, and put flour to make as thick as 
" pancake" dough. 



rises 



PASTRY. 

Handle paste as little as possible; roll it very lightly ; don't 
'wet it too much, it makes it tough. Fresh butter is best; wash 
the salt out, and it will be nicer. Lard does not make so light 
or so finely flavored a puff paste as butter. Flour both sides before 
■you bake it, this will give the paste a fine color ; by folding and 
rolling several times, it rises higher and more even. Cooks agree 
in this, that puff paste must always be rolled from you. Put very 
small lumps of butter over the puff paste after you have rolled it; 
•dredge with flour ; fold it over; roll thin ; repeat the process as 
ibefore. 

Do not make your paste until you are ready to bake it. Have 
your oven hot and ready. 

If the oven is too hot, paste will not rise well ; the same, if it 



58 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



is too cold. Keep your oven swept and clean ; never permit 
juice to run over. 

MINCED MEAT. 

Four pounds of fresh tongue or beef ; Two pounds of suet ; 
eight pounds of chopped apples ; three pounds of currants, washed 
and picked ; three pounds of raisins, seeded and cut in halves ; six 
pounds of sugar; two pounds of citron, cut in thin pieces; the 
rind of one orange, chopped fine ; one ounce of cinnamon ; 
a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; a quarter of au 
ounce of mace ; a quarter of an ounce of allspice ; 
four nutmegs, grated ; 1 quart of the syrup of spiced fruit ; one 
pint of good vinegar ; boil the meat in salted water until tender; 
when cold, chop it fine; also the suet, mixing it with the meat, 
with salt just sufficient to remove the fresh taste; to this add the 
apples, then the fruit, sugar, spices and other ingredients. Mix 
all well together, and cover close. If too dry (before using) add 
a little water. 

MINCE PIES. 

Mrs. C. G. Young, 
4 pints of meat ; 1 lb raisins ; 1 lb. currants ; 2 pints of suet ; 
\ pint molasses; salt, pepper, cider; 1 tablespoon cinnamon; 
\ tablespoon allspice ; nutmegs ; sweeten to taste. Two pints of 
the above mixture, and one of apples. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Miss. Julia Fursell. 
\ cup molasses ; 1 cup sugar ; 1 cup chopped raisins ; i cup 
vinegar; \ cup butter; 3 cups boiling water; 3 eggs, (well 
beaten ;) 3 crackers, rolled fine ; 1 teaspoon cloves ; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon ; \ small nutmeg. This quantity makes 
four pies. 

TEMPERANCE MINCE PIE. 

To four pounds of meat (beef,) after it is prepared, 3 lbs. of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 59 

suet, 3 lbs. of raisius, 3 lbs. of currants, 3 lbs. of citron, 3 lbs. of 
best brown sugar, 1 large spoonful of salt, the juice of twelve 
lemons, and the rind of six, grated and cut fine, 1 pint of best 
syrup of molasses, 2 oz. of cinnamon, 1 oz. cloves, 1 oz. of allspice, 
or nutmeg. Mix these ingredients well together, and pack 
lightly in a jar (stone,) with a layer of sugar over it, till ready 
to bake. To one-third of the quantity, add one-half a peck of 
good pippin apples, chopped fine, the juice of eight lemons and 
two quarts of water, and one lb. of sugar. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

To 1 pint of stewed and strained pumpkin, take 1 qt. of sweet 
milk, a pinch of salt, and 6 eggs. Ginger, nutmeg or cinna- 
mon are good spices for these pies. Bake in rich paste. 

PUMPKIN PIES. 

To three cups of the pumpkin strained, add one cup of cream 
three eggs, a little cinnamon and nutmeg, (some prefer a little 
ginger;) make it thin with hot milk. 

FLOUR PIE. 

Stir one teacup of sifted flour in a quart of boiling milk, and 
yolks of three eggs; let boil a few minutes ; sweeten, and add 
a piece of one lemon ; have the crusts baked, and fill with the 
custard ; spread over the tops, the whites which have been well 
beaten and sweetened, and brown slightly ; wet the flour witL a 
little cold milk before stirring in. 

PEACH COBBLERS. 

Make a light dough of baking powder, and very little short- 
ening ; roll thin, and line the sides and ends of a small bread pan; 
peel the peaches ; put them in with enough water to cook them 
and make plenty of juice ; cover on top with a crust, leaving 
holes on top for the steam to escape ; bake until the peaches are 
quite tender, in a slow oven; lift all the crust; cut into small 



<>0 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



pieces; spread each piece with peaches and juice ; sprinkle su^ar 
and small lumps of butter all over, and eat with cream or milk. 
Apple cobblers in the same way. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

3 eggs ; 3 tablespoons of sugar ; 1 pint of milk ; cinnamon or 
nutmeg, or any flavoring to taste; beat the eggs and sugar until 
light and spongy ; add sugar and flavoring ; pour into the crust 
and bake in a moderate oven. Don't open tlie oven for twenty 
minutes. 

CHEESE-CAKE. 

Mr8. Col. Kinney. 

4 qts. of new milk, put rennet in it; when it is well cur- 
ded, tie it in a cloth and drain the whey from it ; put the curd 
in a hair seive, with 1 lb. of butter, and rub through with a 
spoon; add the yolks of 12 eggs; 12 spoons of rosewater, or 
lemon juice; 2 grated nutmegs; sweeten to taste ; 1 lb. of cur- 
rants ; mix all together and bake. For the crust take 1 lb. of 
flour, yolks of three eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, and as much butter as 
will mix these to a paste. 

SAND TARTS. 

2 eggs ; 2 cups of sugar ; li cups of butter ; flour enough to 
roll very stiff"; whites of two eggs ; 1^ cups of clarified sugar; 
^ teaspoonful of lemon ; sugar and cinnamon sprinkled over the 
top ; boil the sugar like candy, and pour it over the beaten eggs, 
then put it on the cakes, with almonds blanched ; sugar and cin- 
namon over the top. 

DEDHAM CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. C. G. Young. 

Make the pie crust not too rich, and bake as for puffs. The 

•Cream — 1 pint of milk ; ^ cup of flour ; 1 cup of sugar; yolks 

of 2 eggs; a little salt; grated rind and juice of 2 lemons; put 

on the stove, and cook to a thick custard ; fill the crust with the 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 61 



cream; then take i cup of sugar to the whites of three eggs, 
and make an icing; spread over the top of the pie, put in the 
oven and brown. 

PUFF PASTE. 

2 lbs. flour; 1 lb. butter; put a little butter in, and make it 
light with cold water, just stiff enough to work up, then roll it 
thin and put a layer of butter all over ; sprinkle on a little flour, 
double it up and roll it out again ; double it and roll three times. 

PIE-PLANT PIE. 

One pint of stewed pie-plant rubbed through a cullender ; one- 
half pint of cream ; one-half pint of sugar; one teacup of rolled 
crackers ; three eggs ; mix all together, and bake without an. 
upper crust. 

COCOANUT PIE. 
Mrs. A.r. 

1 quart of sweet milk (let this come to a boil); 1 grated' 
cocoauut; 2 heaping tablespoonfuls cornstarch : 4 eggs ; enough 
sugar to sweeten ; bake in puff paste. 

KENTUCKY PIE. 

Mrs. J. W. Collins. 

2 coffee cups sugar ; f coffee cup butter ; 1 coffee cup cream ; 
3 tablespoonfuls flour; season with nutmeg or lemon ; bake in a 
crust as you would custard pie. 

PASTRY. 

1 cup of lard ; 3 cups of flour ; 1 cup of water; a little salt ; 
mix lightly, roll out, and spread on it bits of butter ; sprinkle 
on a little flour, roll again, repeat twice; enough for two pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mus Kate Glover. 

2 lemons ; H cups sugar; 4 eggs ; li cups"of hot water; <> 
tablespoons flour ; butter size of a walnut; grate the pulp of 



S2 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



the lemons and a portion of the rind also ; beat the sugar and 
yolks of eggs well, and add to the lemon ; then the flour, the 
water, almost boiling, and the butter; for the icing, take 5 table- 
spoons of sugar to the whites of the eggs, first beating the eggs 
■well; after the pies are baked, spread on the icing, and let them 
leraain in the oven until a light brown. 

LEMON PIE (A VERY RICH PIE). 

Mrs. E. B. Moore. 
3 eggs; 3 lemons ; 3 sponge cakes (small square ones) ; 2 cups 
of sugar; -J cup of water; beat the yolks of eggs and sugar 
together till very light ; then add the lemon juice and grated 
spongecakes; then the water; just before filling in the paste, 
add the grated rind of the lemons and the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiflf froth. (This makes two full pics.) 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Hull. 

2 lemons; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 tablespoonfuls of corn starch; 
2 large cups of boiling water poured on the corn starch (having 
previously wet the same with cold water) ; a small piece of but- 
ter in the starch while hot ; 2 eggs ; when cool, mix all together 
and bake with an under crust. 

LEMON PUFFS. 

3rrs. 3Iary S. Ingalls, 

1 lib of sugar; \ lb of butter; 5 eggs, leaving out the whites 
of 3; the juice of 2 lemons, and the rind of 1 cut very fine; 
mix the ingredients, and put it on the fire; let it simmer until 
it becomes thick as honey, then remove it from the fire; when 
cool, bake in a rich paste; beat the three whites with three table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar to a cream, and spread on top ; let it 
remain in the oven to brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. W. A. Huichins. 
To juice and rind of one lemon, add 1 cup of sugar, the yolks 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 63 



of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of butter, and sufficient milk to fill the 
pan ; bake in rich paste; beat the whites to stiff froth, add sugar, 
and spread over the pie after it is baked ; brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mth. Manj E. Draper. 

1 quart of milk ; 8 eggs (beaten separately) ; 3 lemons ; ^ ft of 
butter; ^fb of flour ; rub well together the butter and flour ; scald 
the milk and pour over the butter and flour, allowing it to stand 
until cold ; add to the yolks of the eggs the grated rind of one 
leraon and the juice of 3 ; sweeten to your taste; bake with an 
undercrust ; Avhen nearly done, take from the oven and spread 
the whites of the eggs on the top, with which has been beaten a 
little pulverized sugar ; return to the oven to brown. 

LEMON PIE. 

Misi Katie Johnson, Steuhenville, Ohio. 
Grate one lemon to one cup of hot water, two cups of sugar, 
the yolks of four eggs, a lump of butter as large as a walnut, 
four tablespoonfuls of flour, stirred smooth in cold water ; line 
two pans with crust, divide this into them, and bake ; beat the 
whites of the four eggs to a stiff" froth; add four tablespoonfuls 
sugar; spread on when the pies are baked; put in the oven, 
and slightly brown. 

PERPETUAL LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Miss E. Bell. 
1 lb of loaf sugar; 6 eggs, leaving out two whites; the juice 
of 3 fine lemons, and grated rind of 2; \ lb of fresh butter; 
put all in a pan and boil gently until they are as thick as honey ; 
pour in a small jar covered air tight ; a dessert spoonful is sufli- 
cient for each pufi*. 

CREAM PIES. 

Mrs. J. W. Collins. 

3 eggs; 1 cup of sugar; butter size of a walnut; 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar ; ^ teaspoonful of soda ; coffee cup of flour, 



64 VALUABLE KECIPES. 



all mixed well together ; bake in two pans ; when perfectly 
cold, put between the following: Plit on to boil 1 pint of 
milk ; take 4 eggs, 1 teacup of sugar and a large spoonful of 
flour mixed well, and pour in the milk while boiling; when this 
is cold, flavor with vanilla, and it is ready to put between the- 
cakes; eat as other pies; remember to split each cake, for this 
quantity makes two pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

3Irs. E. B. Moore. 
2 tablespoon fu Is of flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 1 pint 
of cream ; a little nutmeg ; bake in a crust. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs-. H. A. Towne. 
1 pt. of good sweet cream ; 2 tablespoonfuls flour mixed with 
4 tablespoonfuls of white sugar pulverized, 2 eggs; use only 
the whites, beaten stiff, vanilla, add sugar to taste, if not already- 
sweet enough ; mix in the whites of eggs last, after the other 
ingredients; bake without an upper crust. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Beef suet is best, mutton next. 

Soak rice a half an hour before using. 

Stone raisins, cutting them once with a knife, is nicer f^ 
chopping. 

Wash currants ; pour boiling water on to make them stj«5I ; 
dry before the fire. 

Puddings may be boiled in a form or bag ; rub the form wish 
suet or butter ; dip the bag in boiling water, and flour tke hk- 
side. Tie batter puddings tight. 

Tie bread or corn meal puddings loose. 

Let the water boil before you put them in. 

Have water enough to cover and turn the bag often ; doii^t let 
the water come quite to the top of the form or tin. 

As soon as done, give whatever it is boiled in a sudden plscage 
in cold water. Turn out quickly, and serve as soon as tKzafitft 
out. 

For custards, bread pudding, corn meal, &c., have a ivis&c^ 
ate oven. 

Batter, a quick oven. 

TAPIOCA PUBDING. 

Mrs H. L. MlUer. 

4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca; 1 qt. of railk; 5 eggs; 4 ttlhfe- 
spooufuls of sugar; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; a little salt; -aiok 
the tapioca -in sufficient water to cover it, two hours, then totfki* 



66 VALUABLE KECIPES. 



add the butter, sugar, and yolks of the eggs, well beaten together, 
and put in the oven and bake an hour. Beat the whites thor- 
oughly, taking half and stirring in the hot pudding, then beat 
up a little sugar with the other half of the whites and spread over 
the top and set in the oven for a few minutes. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Mrs. II. L. Miller. 

1 coffeecup of sugar; i cofFeecup of butter; 1 egg; 1 lemon, 
juice and grated rind ; 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg ; 4 tablespoons of 
boiling water ; cream the butter and sugar and beat in the eggs; 
add the lemon and nutmeg ; beat hard ten minutes, and add, a 
spoonful at a time of the boiling water. Put in a tin basin and set 
in the uncovered top of the tea kettle, which must be kept boil- 
ing, until the steam heats the sauce very hot; stir constantly. 

SOUFLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. 11. A. Totcne. 

Boil f cup of butter in a sauce pan, with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, stirring all the time ; add 1 tumblerful of sweet milk, and 
stir till it is of the consistency of starch; take from the fire and 
add quickly the unbeaten yolks of four eggs. Just before din- 
ner, add the whites of the eggs beaten, and two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar. Flavor to taste, and bake twenty minutes. Eaten 
with a sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 3 cups of flour ; \ cup 
of butter ; 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 3 eggs, whites 
beaten. Bake ^ an hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Mm. Dit'kiiisoii. 

^ lb. of butter ; ^ lb. of white sugar ; 1 cup of cream ; 6 eggs ; 
2 oranges, juice and rind ; 1 tablespoon of grated cracker; beat 
butter and sugar together, the eggs separately; stir into the but- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 67 



ter and sugar; add cream and cracker; bake in a flat dish. — 
When done, beat the whites of three eggs with 2 spoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over, and bake a light brown. 

TAYLOR PUDDING. 

Mrs. II. A. Towne. 

1 cup of milk ; 1 cup of suet, chopped; 1 cup of molasses ; 2 
«aps of fruit ; 4 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of soda. Boil four 
or five hours. 

PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

1 lb. of sponge cake sliced up in a pudding dish ; boil 1 qt. of 
milk; thicken with 1 dessert spoonful of arrow root, or corn 
starch; flavor with stick of cinnamon, or any flavor; when it 
boils, add the yolk of five eggs, pour it on the cake ; bake in the 
stove a few minutes; mix the white of eggs, well beaten, with 4 
spoonfuls of sugar ; spread over the top of pudding, and set in the 
•oven «ntil brown. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 

Put slices of jelly cake in the dish, with a small piece of but- 
ter ; sprinkle each layer with mace, until the dish is filled, then 
beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, and pour over the top ; when baked, beat the two whites 
with 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; spread jelly over the top, and 
then add the whites and sugar, and let it stand in the oven until 
it crisps on the top. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Pour one, pint of boiling water on half a box of gelatine; add 
juice of one. lemon, and two cups of sugar; when nearly cold, 
.strain it; add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a stiff" froth, then 
beat all well together again ; put it into a mould to shape it. 



68 VALUABLE RBCIPES. 



and let it cool; take the yolks of these eggs, one pint of milk, 
and teaspoon of corn starch; flavor with vanilla. Cook this like 
any soft custard. Put the hard part of the pudding into a dish 
when you want to serve it, with the custard around it. 

CITRON PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

Line a pie plate with paste; put in 2 layers of sliced citroa; 
beat well J lb sugar, f lb butter, 10 eggs, leaving out the white?., 
pour it on the top of the citron and bake. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

Mrs. Mary E. Draper. 

Six eggs ; three tablespoonfuls of flour ; one pint of milk ; salt; 
beat the yolks well, and mix them smoothly with the flour ; add 
the milk and salt, and lastly beat the whites to a stiff* froth, and 
•work in immediately. Requires one-half hour for baking. To 
be eaten with " hard sauce," made of butter and pulverized 
sugar. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 

Put a teacup of tapioca in a pint and a half of cold water over 
night; in the course of the morning, peel half a dozen sour ap- 
ples and steam until tender ; put them in a pudding dish ; add a 
teacup and a half of sugar, a little salt and a teacupful of water 
to the tapioca, and pour over the apples ; slice a lemon thin and 
lay over the top of the pudding. Bake slowly, two hours. Serve 
with cream. 

HUNTINGTON PUDDING, (EXCELLENT.) 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

Boil a teacup of washed rice in a quart of milk ; when done,, 
add the yolks of four well beaten eggs, a little salt and a table- 
spoonful of butter; add the grated rind of a lemon and a teacup 
of sugar. Put in a baking dish. When done, spread the whites 
on the top, after tliey have been beaten, with 6 spoonfuls of' 



VALXJABLE RECIPES. 69 



sugar, and the juice of the lemon added; put back in the stove to 
brown the meringue. 

CUSTAED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Win. Van Wagenen. 

1 qt, of milk ; 4 eggs ; sweeten to your taste ; after beating 
Ihe eggs, pour in the milk with raisins, or other fruit, then spread 
slices of bread and butter, placing them upon the top, which 
form a nice crust. To be eaten with sauce unless you make it 
sufficiently sweet, add nutmeg. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wm. Van ^Ya<Jenen. 

1 qt. of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch ; 5 of sugar ; the 
yolks of 4 eggs ; stir and boil together thoroughly ; then whip 
tbe whites to a froth with sugar, cover it and put it into the oven 
Biitil a light brown. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 

1 cap of suet, chapped fine ; 1 eg^, beaten ; 1 cup of molasses; 
\ cup of sugar ; 1 slice of bread, crumbled fine ; ^ cup of sour 
icilk ; 1 cup of raisins ; \ cup of currants ; 1 teaspoonful of 
soda; a little salt;, thicken with flour, and steam it three hours. 
£»t with sauce. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Mrs. Kate Wait. 

Two lemons ; one pint of sugar ; one-half cup of butter ; three 
eggs ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, well 
Iwaten, then the juice and grated rind of lemons. Putin a tin ves- 
sel, and boil in a kettle of water until it thickens. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mr». A. L. RatcUff. 

1 lb seeded raisins ; lib currants ; 1 lb suet, chopped very fine ; 
2 tablespoons cut citron ; 1 teaspoonful ground ginger ; 1 tea- 



70 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



spoonful allspice ; 1 nutmeg; 4 eggs ; 1 small teacup full of mo- 
lasses ; 2 R)5 flour, and a little light bread ; mix with sweet milk ;, 
boil steadily 4 hours. Sauce of drawn butter and sugar, fla- 
vored to suit the taste. 

REVERE HOUSE PUDDING. 

Airs. Mary E. Draper. 

1 cup of chopped suet; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 1 cup of molas- 
ses ; 3 cups of flour ; 1 cup of chopped raisins ; salt ; 1 teaspoon 
saleratus ; cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Grease a tin bucket 
and boil 3 hours. 

DANDY PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, boiled by placing the vessel in water: mis 
two tablespoons of corn starch with the yolk of four eggs, 
and a half cup of sugar; pour into the milk and stir quickly, 
and bake at once; beat the whites of the eggs well with a capof. 
sugar; spread over the pudding when cool. Brown iu theoveo, 
and flavor to taste. Eat cold, 

FIG PUDDING. 

J lb of figs ; i cup of suet; -J lb bread crumbs ; 1 tabiespoon- 
of sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 cup of milk ; chop the suet and figs fine ;. 
flavor with cinnamon or nutmeg ; boil three hours. Eat with 
sauce. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Mrs. Geo. Johnson. 

1 qt. sweet milk; 3 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of corn starch; 1 
cup of sugar ; flavor with lemon, or anything to your taste • boil 
the milk and thicken it with corn starch, then add the yolks of 
eggs ; beat the whites separate, and put on top, and set it in tke- 
oven to brown. Eat when cold, with jelly. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. W. ColUns. 

2 large sweet potatoes, grated ; 1 qt. of milk ; 1 teaspoon of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 71 



ginger ; 2 tablespoons of sugar; 4 tablespoons of butter ; 4 eggs ; 
•i cup of flour ; beat eggs separately ; nutmeg. Eat with jelly 
or cream. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mils E. B'Al. 

Boil one quart of milk. Take three tablespoons of fine 
starch, yolks of four eggs, \ cup of sugar, beat togeth- 
er and stir in milk ; stir a few moments after it boils, 
and • pour into a deep dish; beat the whites of four eggs; 
1 teacup ®f pulverized sugar ; o teaspoons of vanilla ; juice of 1 
lemon ; pour on top of pudding. Bake fifteen minutes. Serve 
cold. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

1 cup of sugar ; i tablespoon of butter; 1 heaping tablespoon 
of flour; 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon, or any spice preferred, 
stir it well together, and pour on 1 qt. of boiling water ; stir it 
until it boils, and add 2 small tablespoons of vinegar. The vin- 
egar may be omitted. 

PUDDING. 

Put a qt. of milk to boil, when boiled, pour it over a pint of 
bread crumbs, grated ; beat the yolks of four eggs ; 1 cup of 
white sugar ; \ cup of butter, melted ; the grated rind of a lem- 
on. Bake it, and eat cold. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Mrs. Potccll. 

Cream together ^ itj of butter, i ft of brown sugar; break an 
egg and stir in the yolk; add 1 gill of vinegar. Stir all together, 
well, over some embers, until it thickens. 

DRIED CHERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Powell. 

Beat 4 eggs very light; add 1 cup of white sugar; h pint of 
sweet milk ; 6 oz. of flour, and 8 oz. of grated bread ; 12 ounces 



VAli,tJABLE RECIPES. 



■s^'^jopped suet, and a little salt; when well beaten, mix in 16 
mis ounces of cherries; turn frequent!}' while boiling, to pre- 
"x^M fruit from settling. Boil from three U) four hours. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Jbree cups of flour ; 1 cup of molasses; one cup of milk ; one 
«aspc>f raisins ; one cup of suet; one teaspoon of soda; teaspoon 
«#salt. Spice to taste. 

BREAD PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss Alice L. Boss, 

^Ba of fresh bread, cut in small pieces ; i lb of raisins; ^Ib of 
Esee-f suet;: ^ lb of currants; ^ lb of citron ; ^ lb of sugar and 6 
Nutmeg and cinnnamon to taste, and boil in a bag half 
Serve with egg sauce. 

QUEEN'S BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 

1 pint of bread crumbs to 1 quart of milk ; four eggs, two 
•^ifeiies reserved ; half cup of sugar ; a piece of butter the size of 
sta *gg ;■ a little nutmeg. After the pudding is baked, spread 
^v^ the top, currant jelly, or preserves of small fruit. Beat the 
tws:' whites with two tablespoonfuls sugar, and spread over the 
t^ Sauce of sugar and butter beaten stiff, or sweetened cream. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Mrs. .J. T7. Collins. 

1 cup of sugar ])eaten with three eggs ; 1 cup of butter washed 
%m: from salt; grated peel of a lemon ; line your pie dish with 
|vsaj-fey ; pour in part of the custard; cover with slices of jelly, 
Itea cover with the remaining custard. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. II. A. 
.Eoil one pint of milk, stir in one cup of sifted meal while boil- 
^^; remove from the fire and add one-half, cup of molasses, two 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 73 



tablespoon fills of sugar, oue-half teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, a little nutmeg, one pint of cold milk, and 
oae ei:g well beaten ; pour into the baking dish while warm, and 
bake one hour. We use cream and sugar for sauce with this, 
■but it is very nice without any sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

S. E. F. 

Cover the bottom of a dish with thin slices of bread aud but- 
ter, then a layer of currants, and so on until the dish is full. Make 
a custard aud pour over it. Let it stand to soak, then bake. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 coffeecup of chopped suet ; 2 teacups of sugar ; 1 teacup of 
sour milk ; 1 teacup of raisins, chopped fine : 3 eggs ; 2 teaspoon- 
fals of baking powder; add flour to make the consistency of 
fruitcake; flavor with nutmeg. Sauce of sugar, butter audone 
egg, beaten very light. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

6 crackers, pounded fine ; 1 qt. of boiling milk ; 1 spoonful of 
flour; 1 cup of brown sugar; 6 eggs; raisins, currants and spi- 
ces — bake. Very nice. 

STARCH PUDDING. 

To 1 quart of sweet milk 4 eggs, well beaten ; 1 cup of starch; 
mix with milk ; add the eggs and starch when the milk comes to 
a boil. Let it cook uutil it thickens, then pour in moulds. — 
Serve with sugar and cream. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald one pint of sweet milk (do not let it boil ;) take a half 
pint of corn meal, moisten it with cold milk and stir in the 
.■scalding SEilk ; take one egg, beat well with sugar, and one- 

[6] 



74 • VALUABLE EECLPES. 



fourth pint of milk to the egg and sugar, and then stir into the 
pudding; spice it, and add a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Bake one hour. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Sijler, 

1 cup of butter, or suet ; 1 cup of sugar ; 2 cups of flour ; 2 
eggs; ^ cup of water ; one teaspoonful of baking powder; Icup 
of currants ; steam 2 hours. Sauce to suit taste. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

For appple pudding, take bread crumbs, suet, apples, currants, 
and brown sugar, half a pound of each ; a dozen of sweet al- 
monds, chopped fine ; a little cinnamon and spice to taste. The 
apples to be pared, cored and chopped. Mix all well together, 
adding the whites of eggs, which should be the last ingredient 
put in. Boil for three hours, either in a pudding bag or a mould, 
well buttered. 

CREAM BATTER PUDDING. 

Take half a pint of sour cream, half a pint of sweet milk, 
half pint of flour, three eggs, a little salt, one-half of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; beat the eggs separate, adding the whites last. Bake 
two and a half hours. The above is the queen of puddings. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one egg, salt; 
stir as thick as pound cake, add fruit of any kind, and boil aii 
hour and a half, or steam two hours. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. J. Waller. 

1 qt. milk ; 6 eggs ; 6 tablespoons of flour and a little salt 
Bake half hour ; use butter and sugar dip. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Pare, quarter and core some tart apples and half fill a three 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 75 



pint dish, aud nearly cover them with water. Make a crust of 
one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one cup of milk; roll out and cover the ap- 
ples, place it on top of the stove, and put another dish the same 
size over it, and let it steam and cook half an hour. For sauce 
take two large spoonfuls of butter mixed with one spoonful of 
flour, add one pint of boiling water, stir quickly and let it boil; 
add two-thirds cup of sugar, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and let 
it boil. Try it, aud you will make more. 

CKACKER DESSERT. 

I do not remember to have seen in print directions for mak- 
ing a quick, and cheap, and pretty, and palatable dessert, which I 
learned how to make many years ago. Choose whole soda crack- 
ers, and lay each one upon a separate small plate. Pour upon 
it enough boiling water to soak it well, and leave none upon the 
plate ; cover with a dressing of good sweetened cream with a 
spoonful of jelly in the centre if you choose, or dip upon it a por- 
tion of nice fruit, canned, stewed or fresh, as is convenient. 

APPLE, CURRANT OR DAMSON" DUMPLINGS OR 
PUDDINGS. 

Make a paste of suet, or sweet dripping, and line a basin with 
it, tolerably thin ; fill with the fruit and cover it ; tie a cloth 
tight over it, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

1 lb grated cocoanut ; 1 pint of milk ; 6 oz. of sugar; yolks of 
6 eggs, well beaten ; stir into the milk alternately with the cocoa- 
nut and sugar ; place it in a vessel of boiling water, and stir 
until thick and smooth. As soon as it comes to a hard boil, take 
it off", and serve in cups or tumblers. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

Mrs. A. Buskirk. 
A small teacup of tapioca put to soak over night in a pint o£ 



76 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



milk; in the morning, add to this 4 tablespoons of sugar, and 
the yolks of four eggs, then stir this in a quart of niilk, boiling ; 
let it cook as float ; when wanted for the table, beat up the white 
and stir in the custard. Flavor to taste. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. E. Glover 
B eggs; 1 pint of milk; sugar to taste, flavoring. Let the 
milk boil; beat the yolks of eggs and sugar until very light ; 
stir them into the boiling milk; do not stop stirring until it boils 
again, and then take it off" the fire immediately ; pour it in a shal- 
low dish ; beat the white of eggs very light ; spread over the 
top and bake in the oven until a light brown, which will be done 
in about five to ten minutes, 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CUSTARD. 

Mrs. M. J. Waller. 
Scrape :]: lb of chocolate ; pour on it a teacup of boiling water; 
let it stand by the fire until dissolved ; beat 8 eggs lightly, omit- 
ting the whitesof two ; stir them by degrees into a qt. of rich cream, 
alternately with the chocolate and 3 tablespoons of white sugar; 
put in dish and bake 10 minutes. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

1 pint of stewed and strained apples; ^ ft of butter; ^ pint 
of cream; 3 eggs, beaten light ; sugar and nutmeg to taste ; mix 
the ingredients and bake in puff paste, in a moderate oven, 

FLUMMERY. 

Mrs. C. S. Smith. 

The whites of two eggs; 1 teacup of white sugar; ^ tumbler 
of jelly, of any kind ; beat all together until very stiff. Jelly, a 
little acid is best, 

COCOANUT BLANC MANGE. 

Boill qt. of milk, stir in 1 grated cocoanut, 3 tablespoofuls of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 77 



corn starch ; add luilk to soften it, and enough sugar to sweeten 
it, and a little salt; let it cook 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, 
then remove from oven, and stir in lightly, the beaten whites of 
4 eggs ; pour in a mould, and when cold, serve with sugar and 
cream. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

1 pint of milk, good measure ; 3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of su- 
gar : beat tho eg^s and sugar until very light, then add the milk 
and stir well. Bake in a quick oven ; try it often with a spoon, 
to see whether it is solid, and just at that moment, remove it 
from the oven ; baked too long, it gets watery. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. IT. A. Towne. 
3 eggs, well beaten ; 6 oz. of sugar in h pint of milk, flavorecf' 
with vanilla, boiled ; 1 oz. of gelatine dissolved in \ pint of milk; 
stir the gelatine into the custard ; when perfectly cool, add 1 qt. 
of whipped cream, Put into mould lined with sponge cake. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. A. W. Busldrk. 

2 OZ. of Russia isin glass in 1 qt. of fresh milk ; let it soa^ 
three hours; beat the yolks of 8 eggs and 1 lb of sugar very 
thoroughly together ; boil the isin glass and milk, and add the 
egg and sugar while boiling ; stir in two qts. of sweet cream ; fla- 
vor to taste, and pour in a mould. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Miss E. Bell. 
To the v^hites of 6 eggs, well beaten, add 2 teacups of apples, 
boiled and strained ; 1 cu]) of sugar ; beat all together thorough- 
ly. Flavor to taste. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Mrs. M. J. Waller. 

6 large apples ; pare, slice and stev,- in as much water as will 



78 VALUABLE EECIPES, 



cover them ; when well done, press through a sieve ; make very 
sweet with crushed sugar; beat the whites of 4 eggs to a froth ; 
stir in the apples when cool ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Serve, 
with cream. 

FLOAT. 

Mrs. Wju. Moore. 
1 qt. of sweet milk; 5 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; fla- 
voring extract to suit the taste ; put the milk in a vessel and 
place this in another, containing boiling water ; when the milk 
is almost boiling, add the beaten yolks, putting in a little at a 
•time, and stirring briskly ; let this cook until of the right con- 
sistency, then stir in the whites, which must also be well beaten. 
After the float has been removed from the vessel in which it 
was cooked, add the flavoring. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 79 



G^&wn^i^ $PT W^wi^Mn^u*"^^:) 



CKEAM SAUCE. 



1 cup of sweet, fresh butter; 2| cups of white sugar; 1 egg ; 
beat these together until it becomes a white and very light 
cream ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

COLD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS OR APPLE 
DUMPLINGS. 

Take 4 large spoonfuls of fine white sugar, and 2 of butter 
stir to a cream* and flavor with lemon or vanilla, or grate nut- 
met on the top if you prefer. 

ELEGANT PUDDING SAUCE. 

From Mrs. Cornelius' Cook Book. 

To4 spoonfuls of fine white sugar, put 2 of butter, 1 of flour, 
and stir them together to a cream in an earthen dish ; cut the 
■white of an egg to a stiff froth, and add it; then pour into the 
^jsh a gill of boiling water, stirring the mixture very fast; put 
it into the sauce tureen and add essence of lemon or rose, or 
grate nutmeg over the top, as you prefer. 



80 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



G^^^^^m^4^^ C^e^»^i '^1i^*^^>- 



WHIPPED CREAM. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 
Whip 1 pint of sweet cream to a stiff froth ; add sugar or lemoa, 
vanilla, and a sheet of isinglass or gelatine, after soaking it. 

GELATINE. 

Mis. if. a. IlutcJnns. 
Pour over 3 sliced lemons 1 pint boiling water; add table- 
spoonful ground cinnamon ; let stand until cold, strain, and 
pour over 1 box Cox's gelatine ; when dissolved, add three 
pints of boiling water, and sugar to taste; strain, and set away 
to cool. 

LEMON CREAM. 

The juice and grated peel of one lemon ; vub smooth 2 table 
Spoonfuls of corn starch in the yolks of three eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar and 1 pint of boiling water ; when done, beat the 3 whites 
and stir them in ; then pour it into small glasses or cups and 
set them in the refrigerator on ice to get very cold. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. 

Mrs. Foil' ell. 

Put some raspberries or jam through a hair sieve, to take out 



VALUABLE RECIPES. SU 



the seeds; if the raw fruit, it will require sugar ; mix it 
with some cream ; put it in glasses, and put frothed cream over It-' 
always put a little sugar in the cream as you wish it, and let h 
remain on the sieve an hour to get firm. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

■| oz. isinglass or gelatine dissolved in 1 qt. sweet milk ; 4 e^s 
(the yolks); 2 cups of sugar beaten well with the eggs; &dr 
them in the milk till it thickens; set aside to cool ; add fia^o^* 
ing and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

ICE CREAM. 

2 gals, rich milk ; 16 eggs; 2i tbs. white pulverized Sfigsx;: 
4 tablespoons corn starch, beaten with the yolks; beat th& 
•whites separately ; cook milk, yolks andicorn starch, beat m tfee 
whites and stir until cold, then add sugar and flavor to .^A 
taste; freeze immediately, 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

Boil 1 pint of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of arrow root, a.acl 
stir until cool, then add two quarts of cream, sweeten and flares. 
to taste, and freeze. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

iVrs. a S. Smith. 

Soak J of a box of gelatine in 1 qt. of milk ^ hour; then sM 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 2 eggs ; boil all together f<j.r se 
few minutes; when done, add flavoring of any kind you ckaoeep 
and pour into moulds like jelly; serve cold; with cream, it is 
much better. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. H. A. Tou-ne. 

1 qt. sour milk ; 8 eggs, use onl}' the yolks ; \ oz. gelatin-s oc 

isinglass; sugar to taste, and flavoring; soak in cold water 3' 

sheets of corpus isinglass 2 hours, or i oz. of gelatine ; t^Kss 

put it in the milk to boil, sitrring it often ; when it has <j&r- 



82 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



solved and the milk has boiled, stir into it the well-beaten yolks; 
sweeten, flavor and turn into moulds previously wet with a lit- 
tle white of egg and water ; it needs to stand a long time — ten 
hours at least ; needs no straining. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs Hull. 
Break 1 oz. of isinglass in 3 pints of milk, and put over the 
fire ; beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar; beat the whites to a stiff froth; when the isinglass is 
dissolved and the milk is almost boiling, stir in the yolks; then 
take it from the fire, stir a few times, and put in the whites of 
the eggs, flavor with vanilla, and turn into moulds; it is better 
to be made the day before it is to be eaten, as it should be cool. 

ITALIAN CKEAM. 

1 pt. of cream flavored and sweetened to the taste ; 1 oz. of 
sheet isinglass boiled in 3 cups of water ; strain it, cool partially, 
then add the cream and place in moulds till perfectly cold. 

CREAM CHARLOTTE. 

Line a dish with lady fingers or sliced sponge cake ; 1 qt. of 
cream, 1 oz. of American isinglass, flour, and sweeten the cream 
to your taste; whip it to a stiff froth ; pour on the isinglass ^ 
pt. of boiling water; boil it down one-half, add it to the cream 
very hot, beat in thoroughly, then turn it into the moulds. 

LEMON JELLY. 

1 paper of Cox's gelatine, 3 pints of boiling waier ; stir until 
all is dissolved ; then add 1^ lbs of sugar, 5 lemons cut in small 
pieces, strain all through a flannel bag. 

COCOANUT CREAM. 

Mrs. J. W. Clark. 
\ paper Cox's refined isinglass dissolved in 1 pt. of boiling 
water, 1 pt, 'of scalded milk and the yolks of 2 eggs, with 2 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 83 



tablespoonfuls of sugar well beaten ; beat the whites of 2 eggs 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; when cold, mix together with 1 
qt. of cream, 1 teacup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of vanilla, and 
sprinkle over the top 1 teacup of cocoanut; keep cold until served. 

PIE-PLANT JELLY. 

Mrs. E. S. W. 
Pick the plant while tender and juicy ; boil, being careful not 
to scorch ; add as many lemons sliced as you wish; strain 
through a flannel bag, without squeezing; add to every 3 pts. 
of juice 2 pts. of sugar, or a lb to a pint if preferred. Boil it 
until it jellies nicely. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Mrs. Wrn. Moore. 

Take parings of quinces and apples, about I apple, put in a 
kettle and pour in water to almost cover, after being pressed 
down; cook until tender, then straan through a flannel bag; 
to a taeasure of this juice, take an equal measure of white 
sugar, when the juice has been well strained add half the sugar 
and after it has commenced to boil let it boil hard 20 minutes — 
no longer — add the other half of sugar, and when it has reached 
the boiling point again let it boil briskly fifteen minutes, and 'tis 
done. Straining it a second time improves it, but is not 
necessary. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Cut Siberian crab apples in pieces, but do not pare them, 
cover them with water and stew until soft ; pour them into a 
jelly bag and strain; to 3 pts, of juice add 2i pts. sugar; boil 
until it jellies ; pour in glasses and set in the sun ; cover air 
tight. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Mis. M. Firmstone. 
To 7 tbs of peaches, take 3 fts of sugar, 1 pint of good vinegar, 
boil the sugar and vinegar, pour it over the peaches, and let them 



84 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



stand over night, then boil until clear, adding ^ an oz. each of 
unground cloves and cinnamon. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

One peck of tomatoes ; 1 R) of brown sugar ; 1 pint of vin- 
egar ; a dessertspoonful of mace ; a tablespoonfol each of cloves 
and cinnamon. After having removed the skin, put the tonoar- 
toes on to boil, and as they begin to boil, pour off the juice, that 
they may not be watery, then add the other ingredients, and 
cook until perfectly done. Time one hour. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

3Irs. Wm. Van Wag en en. 

5 lbs of currants ; 3 lbs of sugar ; 1 pint of vinegar; 1 table- 
spoonful of salt ; 1 tablespooufiil of pepper; 1 tablespoonful of 
cloves; 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon ; 1 tablespoonful of allspice. 
Boil slowly half an hour. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

^ gallon of cranberries, picked and washed ; 1 qt. of water ; 
stew slowly until soft ; strain the pulp through a cullender or 
sieve ; sweeten to taste, but be sure to have it sweet enough. — 
Eat with roast turkey, game and meats. 

APPLE SAUCE, 

Pare and slice some ripe tart apples ; stew in enough water to 
cover them, until they are soft; mas^h and press through a cull- 
ander ; while hot, add a small lump of butter ; sweeten to taste. 
If you wish, grate in nutmeg. 

AMBROSIA. 

12 sweet oranges peeled and sliced ; 1 grated cocoanut — re- 
move the dark part next the shell; 1 cup of white powdered sugar; 
place some of the oranges in a glass bowl, then some of the 
cocoanut; sprinkle sugar over this ; repeat this until all is used, 
reserving some of the cocoanut and sugar for top. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 85 



SUGAEED ORANGES. 

Pare and cut the oranges into thin slices, removing the seeds, 
then cover thickly with powdered white sugar. Lemons may 
be prepared in the same way if desired. 

TO STEW PEARS. 

Pare them, cut in half, put them in a stew pan witli very 
little water; let them stew until tender, add a small teacup of 
sugar to a quarter of a peck of pears ; let them stew until the 
ayrup is rich; a lemou boiled Avith the pears and sliced when 
the sugar is added, improves color and flavor. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash, and put them into a porcelain-lined kettle, with suffi- 
cient boiling water to cover them ; let them stand for tsvo or 
three hours to swell, then place them on the range, or stove, in 
the same water in ^^■hich they were steeped; let them simmer 
slowly, and when done, sweeten to taste. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Mrs. M. J. G. 
Wash and drain some apples, then cut them in pieces, and 
take out the cores and specks ; stew until tender, and when cold 
rub through a coarse sieve ; add to each pint of the pulp (that 
has passed through the sieve), f of a pound of sugar, and cook 
until clear. Add spices to taste, a few minutes before it is done. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

J//.5.S E.BelL 
\ peck of nice tart apples ; 1^ pecks of ripe tomatoes ; 2 
large lemons, cut fine ; 1 oz. of white ginger cut fine; sweeten 
to taste, with sugar ; boil down thick, and stir constantly. 

TO STEW APPLES WHOLE. 

Peel and core the apples ; make a syrup of 1 pt. of water to 
1 pt. sugar ; when boiling, put in the apples, being careful not 
to break them ; cook until tender. 



86 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

3Irs. Mary E. Draptr. 

Weigh the oranges and allow pound for pound of sugar; pare 
the rind of half the oranges as thinly as possible, putting it into 
a bucket with plenty of cold water ; cover tightly, and boil 
slowly until soft enough to pierce easily with a straw ; in the 
meantime, grate the rinds of the other half, and set aside ; 
squeeze the juice of the oranges, being careful to exclude tlae 
seeds; put the sugar into a kettle with little less than half a 
pint of water to each pound of sugar ; skim, while boiling, till clear 
and thick ; take the boiled parings and cut into small shreds ; 
put them in the clarified sugar and boil 10 minutes ; then add 
the pulp, juice and grated rind and boil all together 20 minutes, 
or until it is a transparent mass. 

CURRANT, STRAWBERRY, OR RASPBERRY JAM. 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks^ bruise 
it, and to every pound of fruit put f of a pound of sugar ; stir 
it well, and boil half an hour. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

6 bus. good apples, pared and cut fine ; 3 gals, of good syrup ; 
4 gals, of water ; lib cinnamon, ground fine, just before re- 
moving from the fire. 

QUINCE BUTTER. 

1 bushel of quinces, cut fine; I bushel of apples, 1 gal. of 
syrup, 1 gal. water. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 

To each R). of raspberries, f lb of sugar; scald together, 

after which pour into tin pans, not more than 2 inclies thick ; 

cover with gauze or some thin material, and place them in the 

hot sun a couple of days ; they retain their color and flavor. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 87 



cooked in this way, aud are much nicer than cooised over a fire 
TOMATO HONEY. 

Mrs. J. W. Collins. 

For each ft of tomatoes allow the grated peel of 1 lemoD, 
and 6 fresh peach leaves ; boil until the leaves are to pieces ; 
strain to each ft) of liquid 1 ft) of loaf sugar and juice of one. 
lemon ; cook half an hour, or until a th ick jelly ; put in glasses, 
and lay double tissue paper over them. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



mnv^B^'- 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Have all your vessels clean and dry. 

Iron, coated with earthenware, makes the nicest kettle. 

It is best to have a small stand between the kettle and the 
•liwe, thus there will be no danger of burning, and the cook be 
sjsjjed much trouble. 

Skim off all scum as it rises. 

!& is- considered best, in jams and jellies, to boil and reduce 
.4teffii asme before the sugar is added. 

Do n-at use a tin or iron spoon to stir jelly. 

It is not easy to give time of boiling jelly ; this depends on the 
wDDjafiJition of the fruit, etc; 

Bj taking out a spoonful in a saucer and setting it in cold wa- 
ter, the state of the jelly can be easily found out. 

Tiu pans alter the color of any fruit. 

Choose a dry day to gather fruit for jelly. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Take fine large peaches, pare them carefully, and to 1 lb of 
-Jniit take f of a R) of white sugar ; leave the peaches whole, or 
^Imde if you like ; make the syrup in a porcelain-lined, or per- 
iee% bright brass kettle, and lay the fruit in ; cook slowly until 
tiM? peaches are clear, then lift out carefully into your jar ; cook 
tfe syrup down and pour o-ver. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 89 



TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Take the small pear tomatoes, and scald them by pouring boil- 
ang water over thera ; let them stand until cool, then make a 
syrup of white sugar, and when boiling hot put them in one 
pound of sugar to one pound of tomatoes, and simmer until they 
become transparent, and flavor with lemon or ginger, 

WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

Soak the melon in salt and water one week — three days in 
clear water ; then boil in alum water, covering them very thick 
with grape leaves, until perfectly green ; then throw in clear cold 
water, and change the water every day ; make a thin syrup of 
half a pound of sugar to the pound, and boil them in it until 
nearly done, then make a rich syrup, a pound ofsugartoa pound 
of fruit, and boil until transparent; make strong ginger tea, 
strain it and wet the sugar with it. Season with mace. 

TO PRESERVE PEARS. 

Take small, rich fruit as soon as the pips are black ; set 
them on the fire in a kettle with water to cover them ; let them 
dimmer until they yield to the pressure of the fingers ; remove 
with a skimmer, and put them in cold water ; pare them neatly, 
leave on a small bit of the stem and the blossom end, and pierce 
them to the core at the blossom end ; make a syrup of one 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit — less sugar, if preferred ; 
when it is boiling hot pour it over the pears; let it stand until 
the next day; heat the syrup again to a boil, and pour over the 
pears; let them stand a day or two, put them on the fire and 
boil gently until the pears are clear ; put them in jars, boil the 
syrup until thick, and pour it over them. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Mrs. A. SfcFarland. 
To every pound of citron take f lb of sugar; slice the citron 
;and cover with weak alum water over night ; then boil in clear 

[7] 



90 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



water until tender, then make a syrup of the sugar and put it 
in and boil slowly until transparent ; add ginger root or sliced 
lemon to your taste— must be put in while the preserves are 
cooking. 

PRESERVES— ORANGES AND LEMONS. 

Rub all the oil out of the oranges with hard lumps of sugar 
(scrape it off of the sugar with a knife into a glass jar, it is nice 
for flavoring,) then cut a slit on one side an inch long, take out^ 
all the seeds with the handle of a teaspoon ; soak in weak salt 
water for eight days, changing the water daily; soak a day 
in clear water, and boil in clear water, until you can pierce them 
with a straw ; weigh them, and to 1 lb of fruit allow 2 lbs of su- 
gar; divide the sugar in four parts; make a syrup of one part; 
boil the fruit in it ten minutes ; the next day let the fruit only- 
scald, boiling the syrup longer, and pour hot over the fruit ; re- 
peat this every other day, adding the sugar each day, until the 
fruit is clear, and the syrup thick and rich. Pursue the same 
rule with the lemons. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

To every pound of the seeded fruit, take f of a lb of white 
sugar, cook twenty minutes from the time they commence boil- 
ing, then put hot into jars and seal. Strawberries are very nice 
preserved in the same way, only adding a little bit of alum to 
harden the fruit. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

2 lbs of strawberries; 2 lbs of sugar; alum, size of smallnut 
meg; boil the sugar and berries together for eight minutes, then 
add the alum, and let them boil seven minutes longer ; take 
the strawberries out and let the juice boil for five minutes more. 
The alum hardens the fruit. Not more than 2 lbs of fruit 
should ever be boiled at a time. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 91 



Gg^*»XC«t.«S*'^^ 



YELLOW PICKLES. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 
1 gallon of vinegar or more, in a 4 gallon jar; f pint of wliite 
mustard seed ; 2 oz. of turmeric ; 1 oz. of mace ; 4 oz. of white 
ginger; 2 tablespoonfuls of celery seed ; 3 oz. of black pepper, 
whole ; 2 tablespoonfuls of coriander seed ; all these spices to be 
well beaten ; one large double handful of horseradish ; 1 table- 
spoonful of salt ; 6 lt)s of coarse brown sugar ; 3 lemons sliced ; 
lay the ginger in salt water over night ; slice it and spread it to 
dry ; take Early Yorks, if small, halve them, if large, cut in 
quarters ; to be kept in brine, that will bear an egg, three days ; 
scald in clear water until tender ; squeeze dry, then throw, in a 
jar of inferior vinegar, or half vinegar and water, colored with 
turmeric, for two days, then place layers of cabbage and layers 
of sugar in your preserving kettle, (porcelain lined,) cover with 
the spiced vinegar, until all the sugar is dissolved, then throw 
all in the spiced vinegar. Take 2 qts. of small white onions, boil 
and soak in salt and water until tender, then boil in weak milk 
and water, to extract the onion taste. Put in the jar of yellow 
pickles. 

DAMSON PICKLES. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

1 
To 1 lb of the fruit, add 1 lb of sugar, IJ pints of vinegar, with 



92 VALUABLE BECIPES. 



Iialf an ounce of mace and cloves; boil the syrup every day for 
six mornings, and pour hot over the fruit. 

PEACH PICKLES. 

Mrs. D. 

To 3 ft s of peaches allow 2 fts of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 
J tablespoonful of cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 oz. of mace; boil the 
vinegar with the sugar and spice, and pour every day, (for five 
mornings) over the fruit. 

PICKLES. 

86 cucumbers, medium size; in salt six or seven days, then 
take out and rinse, and chop with two cabbage heads; let it re- 
main over night ; rinse and drain off, then chop four heads of 
celery with it; 1 pint of grated horseradish ; 2 oz. of cinnamon, 
6 tablespoons of ground mustard; 1 cup of sugar; bottle, 
'putting good cider vinegar with it. Cork tight. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs. E. B. Moore. 
\ peck of tomatoes ; 1 head of cabbage ; 2 doz. cucumbers ; 
'1 doz. green peppers; J doz. onions; slice the onions and let 
'them stand ten minutes with boiling water over them ; chop fine, 
and separate the rest of the ingredients; sprinkle salt to suit 
the taste; after adding all together, let the mixture stand one 
'hour, after which, press it dry, then pour cold vinegar on it, 
■let this stand 24 hours, then drain it all r>ff, and to every gallon 
of the mixture, add ^ lb of sugar ; use mustard seed, cloves, 
snace, and enough vinegar to cover it. To be poured on boiling 
'tot. 

PICKLED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. H.A.T. 

1 ft fruit, after draining; 1 ft of sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar; 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon ; \ teaspoonful of cloves ; 
boil all together two or three hours ; pick the currants from the 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 93 



stems, after drainingall the juice you can without much pressing, 
then weigh the fruit. 

MARTINO PICKLES. 

Soak well in a brine for 1 week, boil gently till tender io 
weak vinegar, in an iron kettle ; scald some allspice, horseradislv 
and pepper ; put layers of onions between the martinoes, anf) 
pour over them the hot vinegar. Fit for use in six weeks. It 
is very important to watch the bushes closely to gather the fruit 
before they become fibrous. Gather them early in the morning 
while the dew is on them. 

PICKLED PLUMS, 

1 quart of vinegar ; 4 lbs of sugar ; 7 lbs of plums ; 1 oz. of 
cloves ; 1 oz. of cinnamon ; wipe each plum, and stick 
two or three cloves in each plum, put them in a jar, 
then put the sugar, vinegar and cinnamon over a fire and le,t 
come to a boil, then pour it over the plums the next day ; scald 
the syrup again, and the third time put plums and all over the 
fire, and let them come to a boil. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. 0. F. Moore. 
1 peck of green tomatoes, sliced very thin ; sprinkle witb salt; 
rest 24 hours ; drain, then take six onions, cut in the same way, 
and at the same time ; mix together ^ tb of mustard seed (white;) 
1 oz. of ground pepper; 1 oz. of cloves; 1 oz. of ground ginger; 
1 oz. of ground mustard ; put a layer of tomatoes and one of 
spice alternately in a preserving kettle ; add ^ lb of moist sugar; 
cover with vinegar; boil gently until transparent; when cold it 
is ready for use. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Put the onions into salt and water for nine days, observing to 
ohange the water every day, next put them into jars, and pour 
fresh boiling salt and water over them ; cover them close up till 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



they are cold, then drain the onions and put them into bottles ; 
fill them up with cider vinegar; put into every bottle a slice or 
two of ginger, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of sweet oil, 
which will keep the onions white. Cork them tight. Keep in 
a dry place. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Cover the cucumbers with brine (made of water and salt, 
strong enough to bear up an egg) 24 hours, then wash in clear 
water and dry them ; place some cucumbers in the jar; add gin- 
ger, horseradish, and pepper pods ; add more cucumbers and 
epices, until the jar is full ; boil cider vinegar and pour over. 
Cover tight. 

SPANISH PICKLES. 

Mrs. C. G. Toung. 
One half bushel full grown cucumbers; cut an inch thick; 
thick; put them in layers a finger length in depth; 1 oz. white 
pepper ; 1 oz. of mace ; 1 oz. of turmeric ; 1 oz. of cloves ; 1 oz. 
©f cinnamon; 1 oz. of celery seed ; 1 oz. of ginger; i oz. of red 
pepper ; 1 oz. of allspice ; \ oz. of black mustard seed ; |^ lb of 
white mustard seed; 1 handful of salt with each layer of spices 
between the layer of cucumbers; there may be added yellow 
©chre ; \ peck of onions, sliced ; 2 boxes of mustard ; 1 lb of 
brown sugar; pour strong, cold vinegar over them. They must 
be stirred frequently. While warm weather, after mixed, boil 
two hours. 

TO PICKLE GREEN WALNUTS. 

Mrs. M. J. Gay lord. 

Gather the walnuts, or what is better, butternuts, when very 
«n>all ; prick them several times through and through, pack 
them in alternate layers of salt and nuts ; when they have made 
a brine, drain them, and repack with fresh salt; let them re- 
main eight days ; wash free from salt, and wipe them ; lay them 
to dry three days ; steep spices in strong vinegar, heat it boiling 
liot and pour it over the nuts ; let them stand one week, then 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 95 



pack the nuts in jars with spices; heat good vinegar near to 
boiling heat, fill the jars, let them become entirely cold, and then 
<;ork tightly ; the vinegar can be used in fish sauces after the 
pickles are used. 

PLUM PICKLES. 

Mrs. E. B M. 
6 lbs of sugar; 7 lbs of plums; 1 qt, of vinegar; 2 even 
-spoonfuls of cloves ; 1 even spoonful of cinnamon ; scald the 
vinegar, sugar, cloves and cinnamon together, and pour on the 
plums. Let them stand ten days, then pour oflT and scald it 
«gain. 

GREEN PICKLES. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

2 gallons of vinegar, in a four gallon jar ; \ pint of black 
mustard seed ; 4 ounces of ginger in sticks ; 2 ounces of long 
peppers; 1 oz. of cinnamon ; 2 oz. of stick cinnamon ; 3 oz. of 
allspice; 1 oz of cloves ; 1 large double handful of horseradish ; 
1 oz. of mace; 1 spoonful of salt ; 6 lbs of brown sugar ; 3 lem- 
ons sliced ; 2 tablespoonfuls each of celery and coriander seed ; 
all to be well beaten. Put the cucumbers in salt and water a 
week or more, then green with grape leaves and vinegar and 
water; cover close and keep hot until sufficiently colored, then 
throw them in ajar of weak vinegar, to extract the sale, then put 
them in the spiced vinegar. 

STUFFING FOR FORTY MANGOES. 

Mrs . Die kinson . 

lib of ginger ; 1 oz. of mace ; 1 lb of mustard seed ; 1 oz. of 
nutmegs ; 1 lb of horseradish ; 2 oz. of turmeric; 1 lb chopped 
■onions ; 1 handful of black pepper ; mix these ingi'edients into a 
paste with a quarter of a pound of ground mustard, and a cup 
of sweet oil, and 1 lb of brown sugar. Put a clove of garlic into 
'«ach mango; take the mangoes, wash them and cut out a little 
g)lug, remove all the seeds, replace the plug, or square, tie 



^6 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



with strips of cotton or twine, to keep them in place ; put in salt 
and water for a day or two, then boil in clear water until they 
-are tender enough to pierce with a straw. When cold, stuflu" 
each one ; add the plug ; sew it on with a coarse thread and nee- 
dle, and wrap with a string, and cover with cold vinegar. Sa 
many persons object to the flavor of oil, it is well to omit it,, and 



add the juice of lemon. 



G^C»©^*C»©1^#^^^:> 



CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. A. W. Buskirk. 
\ pk. of green tomatoes ; 1 doz. onions ;; 1 doz. cucumbers ; |- 
doz. green peppers ; 1 head cabbage ; 10» cts. worth of horse- 
radish ; mustard, salt, celery ; cover with good vinegar and boil 
slowly two hours, stirring often. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. W. A. Hutchins. 
\ peck of green tomatoes ; half quantity white onions ; 1 doz- 
cucumbers ; same number of green peppers ; 1 head cabbage ;. 
season with raiistard, celery seed, and salt to taste ; boil two hour» 
in good cider vinegar ; cover tight when> dione. 

CHOW-CHOW. 
3 large cabbage beads ; \ pi. white mustajid seed ; \ pt. horse- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 97 



radish; 1 teacup of white sugar; ^teacup salt; 1 pod of eed 
pepper ; put in jar, and cover with cold vinegar. 



G^J^cey^'.e*' S^m^^t'^S) 



PEPPER VINEGAR. 



Take 6 large red peppers, slit thera up, and boil in 3 pints of 
sti'oug vinegar ; boil down to 1 qt., strain and bottle. Wtii 
keep for years. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

1 doz. of peppers (green), 9 cucumbers, 3 heads of cafe'bag^, 
6 onions, if you want thera, 1 doz. tomatoes, all chopped jJiR^tf 
fine ; whole white and brown mustard seed, and whole €\&sres; 
cover with vinegar. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



G^CATS^F*^ 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

Take|^ peck of tomatoes, wash and slice them, put them ia 
3f©trr preserving kettle, and let them stew gently until quite soft, 
'hxtt do not stir them ; strain the juice through a sieve, pour it 
'ime& into the kettle ; add 2 doz. cloves, ^ oz. of allspice, h oz of 
»,. salt and cayenne to your taste ; boil it down half; next 
afcrain out the spice, and to every pint of juice add ^ gill of 
i vioegar,. and bottle for use. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

Bi>n 1 bushel of tomatoes until tender ; rub through a cul- 
leisder, add 2 qts. of cider vinegar, 1^ lbs of salt, J lb of black 
jse|»per, J lb of allspice, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper, 6 onions, 3 
gistedi nttlmegs, 3' Ifes of brown sugar; boil down, and when 
'dlssBe' steaiffi througb a sieve to remove onions ; bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

S. E. f. 

f Bashel of skinned tomatoes ; 1 qt. of vinegar ; 1 lb of salt; 

^ H» of black pepper, 2 oz. of cayenne ; \ lb allspice ; 1 oz. of 

cl»?es; 3: bo-xes of mustard ; 20 cloves of garlic; 6 onions; 2 

H® ©f brown sugar, 1 handful of peach leaves ; boil 3 hours. 



/ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 99 



constantly stirring it, strain it through a fine sieve or coarse 
cloth, then bottle it. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

iVr«. C. S. 8m' th. 
18 large tomatoes, ripe ; 2 green peppers ; 2 large onions ; 4 
cups of vinegar ; 2 tablespoonfuls of salt ; 5 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 2 of ginger, 2 of cloves, 2 of cinnamon, 2 of allspice, 1 
nutmeg ; cook 1 hour. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Miss E. Bell. 

Take 12 full-grown cucumbers, lay them one hour in cold 
water, pare and grate them into an earthen vessel; season with 
pepper, salt and vinegar, making it the consistency of marma- 
lade; when mixed well transfer to glass jar, making air tight. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Boil the gooseberries in as little water as possible, then strain 
through a fine sieve; add 7 coflTee cups of pulp, 5 cups of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and 3 of cloves; put in a wide - 
mouthed bottle. 

CHILTON SAUCE. 

Mrs. T. J. Graham. 

^ peck of tomatoes ; 4 peppers; 2 onions, chopped fine; 
■grated horseradish to taste ; 2 cups of vinegar ; 2 tablespoons of 
■salt, 2 of sugar, 2 of cloves, (ground), 2 of ginger (ground) ; 1 
nutmeg, grated ; cinnamon to suit the taste ; boil one hour and 
bottle; if to be kept long, seal it. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Take green walnuts, before the shell is formed, pound them 
In a marble mortar, squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth ; 
put to every pound of juice 1 lb of anchovies, 1 lb of bay salt, 
1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of black pepper ; of mace, cloves, and 



100 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

ginger, each 1 oz., and a stick of horse-radisli ; boil together 
until reduced to half the quantity ; put it into a pot, and.wheit 
cold, bottle it; it will be ready for use in three months. 



TO MAKE GOOD TEA. 

Mrs. a S. Smith. 
See that the water boils ; scald the pot, put in a teaspooufuE 
for each person; pour a little water upon green tea, and let it 
stand two or three minutes where it will keep hot; then fill the- 
pot with boiling water ; green tea should not be boiled, and it is^ 
rendered dead by steeping too long ; use the same quantity of 
black tea, and fill the pot with boiling water; then set on the 
stove to boil up once. Green and black mixed are good. 

TO BROWN COFFEE. 

After picking it over carefully, put it into a bread pan andi 
place in the oven of your stove ; while it is browning do not. 
attempt to do anything else, but watch it closely and stir every- 
few moments, that the grains may all brown evenly ; whea 
done, it should be a chestnut brown. 

HOW TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE. 

Mrs. A. McF^rland. 

To each person take one tablespoouful of ground coflfee (ands 
one for the coffee pot) and one large teacup of boiling water to. 
«ach person ; first scald the coffee pot add then put in the coffee^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 101 



add the white of an egg and a little cold water; stir well, and 
add the boiling water ; let it boil from five to ten minutes, 
when put in a little cold water and lift it off to settle. Coffee, 
when boiled too long, tastes like cold coffee warmed over. 

CHOCOLATE. 

1 qt. of new milk, or milk and cream ; f of a cake of sweet 
<Grerman chocolate ; break up the chocolate into small bits ; 
Bet the milk get scalding hot, and then add the chockolate, stir 
-constantly until the chocolate is dissolved to prevent its burn- 
ing or sticking to the bottom of the vessel. After it is thor- 
«jughly dissolved let it boil about two. minutes, remove itfrom the 
Sre and in case 'tis too strong for the taste dilute with boiling milk 
or cream. The safest plan is to serve as it is, and allow each to 
add the cream for themselves. 



c^CASS:®*^^^:) 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Have your oven ready as soon as your cake is mixed. It 
makes a cake less light to stand, particularly those having soda 
or baking powder in them. 

Fruit must be well dried, and dusted with flour ; if put in 
<damp, will make it heavy. 

Use good white sugar, if you want your cake nice. Some 
cooks sift the sugar. Coffee sugar makes good common cake, 
^ggs should be fresh, and beaten very light. Use none but good 



102 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



butter, the least strong flavor will be present in the cake. 

Cake cannot be beaten too much. An earthen or wooden 
bowl is best. Tin is too cold, and the cake will not beat so light. 

In winter, warm the flour. 

Be careful in measuring and weighing. A very small mistake 
will sometimes ruin a cake. 

Try your cake with a broomstraw. If it comes out free from 
dough, it is done ; if it sticks, leave it in longer. 

Too little flour or too cold an oven makes sad cake. 

It will keep nicely to wrap it in a linen cloth and put it in a 
stone jar. 

Some beat cake with the hand, others prefer a spoon. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Mrs. B. B. Oaylord. 
1^ lbs of butter ; 1^ lbs of sugar ; 1^ lbs of flour; 13 eggs; 
1 gill of rose-water ; the grating of 1 nutmeg ; 2 lbs of citron, 
cut thin and small ; beat the butter and sugar until very light, 
then add the yolks of the eggs, with the rose-water and one-half 
of the flour; whisk the whites of the eggs as lightly as possible, 
and add alternately with the remaining flour, and lastly stir in 
the citron, previously floured. Bake in one large, or two small 
cakes ; cover the pans with buttered paper. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CITRON CAKE. 

1 lb of sugar; f lb of flour ; 6 oz. of butter; whites of 14 
eggs ; ^ lb of citron, sliced thin, and floured ; juice of 1 lemon, 
and grated rind ; small cup of milk ; bake 20 minutes. Place 
a layer of dough and one of citron, and so on. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs, M. J. Gaylord. 

2 lbs of flour ; 2 lbs of white sugar ; 2 lbs of butter ; 20 eggs ; 
3 lbs of currants, washed and dried ; 3 lbs of raisins, seeded. 
and cut ; 1 lb of citron, cut fine ; ^ lb. almonds, blanched and 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 118$ 



chopped ; 1 gill of rose-water ; 2 nutmegs, and a little jcQixedi 
spice ; work the butter to a creara, mix the sugar &ad spi«e, and 
■work all well together ; then separate the eggs and beat the j<,4L3 
lightly, and add with part of the flour to butter and sugar;; tfeaa 
add the remainder of the flour and whites of the eggs, beatean &> 
a stifi^ froth ; next, add the rose-water ; then the currants, raisiaa, 
citron and almonds (previously floured) ; mix all thoroughly Iwit 
lightly together, and put into a pan lined with buttered paper- 
Bake four hours and a half. 

FRUIT CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER OR EGGS- 

3Irs. H. A. Towne. 
1 lb. of fat pork, either fresh or salt ; 3 cups of brewn sugar; 

1 teaspoonful of soda ; 2 teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon, <ilov«ss 
and allspice; 1 nutmeg; fruit to taste (or 1 lb. raisins, J Ik nit- 
ron) ; chop the pork very fine ; add one cup of boiling water, 
one cup of sugar; stir well, together; then add another cup «if 
boiling water, and the rest of the sugar ; make stiff" as cup-eake 
with flour — about 5^ cups. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Van Der Lyn. 
1 lb. of sugar ; 1 lb. of butter ; 10 eggs ; beat thena well 
together; 2 nutmegs; 2 tablespoonfuls of cloves; 3 tablesp®<8ai- 
fuls of cinnamon ; 1 tablespoonful of mace; 2 lbs. of rai^s;^ 

2 lbs. of currants ; ^ lb. of citron ; ^ teaspoonful soda to ^ cap 
sweet milk. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Manly. 
Whites of 16 eggs; 1 lb. of sugar; fib. of butter; 1 lb. -o^ 
flour ; 1 teaspoonful of extract of bitter almonds ; 1 Ih. of 
blanched almonds (sweet) ; 2 oz. bitter almonds ; pound the 
almonds in a mortar, with a little rose-water to prevent oiliag; 
1 lb. citron, cut fine; 1 cocoanut, grated; whisk the eggs uniil 
they will stand alone ; cream the butter, into which stir flour, uutH 



I©4 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



gBKfce »tiS-^ then add alternately egg, sugar and flour, till all are 
•weS eonobined ; flavor with vanilla, or extract of bitter almonds ; 
floor the fruit, and stir in last. Bake in a slow oven, using 
eautiofl not to burn it. Ice. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. McFarland, 

2| 1%& of butter ; 2| lbs. of sugar ; 2| pounds of flour ; 5 lbs. 
€& raMas ; 5' lbs. of currants ; 1 lb. of citron; 2 lbs. of almonds, 
Mba«h«d, and cut in small pieces ; 3 nutmegs ; 2 oz. of cinna- 
isssro ; 20* eggs ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and bake 
fimoi four to five hours in a slow oven. 

MEASURE BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. H. L. Miller. 
1 etep- of butter ; 3 cups of sugar ; 3 eggs ; \ pt. of milk ; 3 
ci^©f flour; 1 lb. raisins; ^ lb. of currants; \ lb. citron; 
EJiBsinieg ;. cloves and cinnamon ; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Manly. 
!%>. of sugar ; 1 lb. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour ; 1 lb. of 
rsBe^ixs,-: 1 lb, of currants; 1 lb. of citron ; 8 eggs; beat the 
feawtSer and sugar to a cream ; add 2 eggs and a little flour, till 
sMaare used. Then add the fruit, which must always be floured. 
Use the above, minus the fruit, for pound cake. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

4 caps of butter ; 8 cups of sugar; 12 cups of flour; 20 
<^ggs;: 2 nutmegs ; 2 lbs. of raisins; 2 lbs. of citron ; 2 lbs. of 
^^BOTsants ; 1 teaspoonful of cloves ; 4 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon ; 
1 teaspoonful of mace ; dredge the fruit in part of the flour ; 
»lir m the fruit last before baking. Bake four hours. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Pitrsell. 
1 lb. of brown sugar; J lbs. of butter; 1 lb. of flour; 2 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 105 



lbs. of raisins ; 2 lbs. of currants ; ^Ib. of citron ; 1 oz. of cloves ; 
^ oz. of mace; ^ pt. of sour cream ; 1 scant tablespoonful of soda ; 
1 teacup of dark jelly ; dredge the fruit with flour, and bake 3 
hours. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. R. W. Manly. 
1 lb. of flour ; 1 lb. of butter ; 1 lb. of sugar ; 2 lbs. of 
raisins ; 2 lbs. of currants ; f lb. of citron ; 8 eggs ; \ oz, of 
mace ; \ oz. of cloves ; \ oz. of nutmeg ; \ oz. of cinnamon ; 

1 tablespoonful of ginger ; 1 cup of dark jelly ; beat the butter 
and sugar to a cream, eggs to a froth ; fruit and flour last ; bake 

2 hours in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. George Johnson. 
1\ lbs. of butter; 1 J lbs. of sugar , 1\ lbs. of flour; 12 
eggs ; 2 lbs. of raisins ; 2 lbs. of currants ; J lbs. of citron ; 
spices. I 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrx. A. McF. 

1 R) of sugar: 1 lb flour; | lb butter; 9 eggs; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Miss Nettie Shepard. 

2 ft)s of white sugar ; 2 lbs of butter ; 2 lbs of flour, and the 
■whites of 30 eggs; stir the sugar and butter until very light; 
beat the eggs until they will stand alone ; add the flour and 
eggs alternately; flavor with lemon and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

4 cups of sugar ; 2 cups of butter ; 7 cups of flour; 1 cup of 

[8] 



106 VALTJABLE RECIPES. 

sour milk ; 1^ teaspoonfuls of soda in the milk ; 3 teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, well worked in flour ; flavor to taste ; 16 eggs, 
using the whites only. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

. . Mrs. J. R. Clarke, of Oxford, N. Y. 

2 cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of milk; 3 cups of 
flour ; 1 cup of corn starch ; whites of 8 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar; one teaspoonful of soda; flavoring as you 
like. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

1ft of flour; 1ft of raisins; 1 ft of currants; |^ ft of butter; 
f ft of brown sugar; 1 teaspoon of soda ; J teacup of molasses, 
same of milk ; ^ dozen eggs ; teaspoonful each of cloves, and 
cinnamon, and nutmeg. Bake from three to four hours in slow 
oven. 

FKENCH LOAF CAKE. 

1 ft raisins ; 1 ft flour ; 1 ft of currants ; ^ ft of butter ; f lb 
of brown sugar; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 cup of sour milk; 1 cup 
of molasses ; 4 eggs ; 1 teaspoon of alum, cloves, mace, nutmeg 
and other spices to suit the taste. Put the fruit in last, having 
it well rolled in flour. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Beat 12 eggs to a stiff" froth, the whites and yolks sparately, 
then mix them together, and add to them, gradually, 1 ft of 
white sugar; beat this ten minutes, then stir in, very lightly, 1 
ft of flour ; must not be beaten after the flour is added; bake in 
jelly-cake pans, in a quick oven. The Mixture. — Soak -^ box 
of Cox's gelatine one hour, then dissolve this in ^ teacup of wa- 
ter, by heating and pouring it over the gelatine, and stirring until 
the gelatine is dissolved. Beat one pint of very rich cream to a 
stiff" froth, also the whites of 8 eggs ; grate 2 cocoanuts ; after the 
gelatine is cool, but not stiff, stir it into the beaten cream, and 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 107 



then add the grated cocoanut M'ith enough white sugar to sweet- 
en, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, then add the whites of the eggs. 
Spread this mixture between the cakes, and also on the top cake. 
Preserve a little of the grated cocoanut to sprinkle over the top. 

COCOANUT CAKES. 

Mrs. W. Van Der Lyn, of Oxford, N. Y. 
1 coffeecup of sugar ; | teacup of butter ; i teacup of sweet 
milk; 4 eggs, leave out the whites of two; 2 small teacups of 
flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar ; \ teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in layers. Filling. — Beat the two whites and make frost- 
ing, not quite as thick as for cake, spread between each layer, 
and sprinkle with either fresh or prepared cocoanut. If pre- 
pared cocoanut, soak in a very little milk two or three hours be- 
fore using. 

PLAIN COCOANUT CAKE. 

Beat f lb of sugar and ^ fb of butter, to a cream, add gradu- 
ally, f lb of flour, the whites of twelve eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and J of a grated cocoanut ; mix well with part of flour, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and h teaspoonful of soda. 
Icing. — Whites of four eggs, sixteen tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, and the rest of cocoanut grated. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

\ lb. of flour; \ lb. of butter; ^ lb. of sugar; 1 cup of milk ; 
whites of 8 eggs , h teaspoonful of soda ; 1 teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar ; mix the above thoroughly, and add 1 grated cocoanut. 
After the cake is frosted, sift a cup of grated cocoanut over the 
top. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. S. Smith. 
6 eggs ; H cups of sugar ; 2 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder ; lemon ; -| of the cocoanut mixed with the cake; 



108 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



whites of 3 eggs; the rest of the cocoanut ; sugar enough to 
snake sweet. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

1 cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; the 
whites of 7 eggs ; 2 cups of flour ; 1 teaspoonful of soda ; 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar ; 1 cocoanut grated ; the whites of 
4 eggs ; 2 cups of pulverized sugar (loaf,) for icing between the 
layers. 

BOILED SPONGE CAKE. 

3Iiss E.Bell. 
1 R) of sugar ; f ft of flour; 7 eggs ; 1 teacup of water ; pour 
the water on the sugar and let it boil ; beat the eggs separately 
and then beat together ; when well mixed, pour over them the 
boiling sugar, and stir constantly until cold enough to add the 
flour. Bake in a loaf, in a moderate oven. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary E. Draper, 
. Whites of 8 eggs ; 1 large cup of granulated sugar ; 1 large 
cup of flour ; beat eggs very stiff on a large platter ; stir into it 
the granulated sugar, adding the flour into which has been 
stirred one teaspoon of cream of tartar. Bake in a square pan, 
in a quick oven. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Ms. Wm. Balcom, Oxford, N. Y. 
6 eggs ; 3 cups of powdered white sugar ; 4 even cups of sift- 
ed flour ; 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar ; 1 cup of cold water ; 
1 teaspoon of soda ; 1 lemon ; beat the eggs two minutes, and 
put in the sugar and beat five minutes more, then stir in the 
cream of tartar and two cups of the flour, and beat one minute ; 
now dissolve the soda in the water and stir in, having grated the 
•rind of the lemon ; squeeze in half of the juice only ; and final- 
ly, add the other two cups of flour and beat all one minute, and 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 109 



put into deep pans in a moderate oven. There is considerable 
beating about this cake, but if itself does not beat all the sponge 
cakes you ever beat, we will acknowledge it to be the beating 
cake all around. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen, Oxford, N. T. 
4 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; 1 cup of sugar; 
1 cup of flour; 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; ^ teaspoon of 
soda. Flavor with vanilla. 

ICE WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

7 eggs ; 3 cups of sugar; 3 cups of flour ; 1 cup of ice water ; 
beat the yolks and sugar together ; add in water, then flour, 
lastly whites of eggs. Put eggs in ice water twenty minutes be- 
fore using. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Hattie Damarin. 
Whites of ten eggs ; 1^ teacups of sugar ; 1 cup of flour ; 1 
teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

3Irs. Ann L. Martin. 
1 pint of sugar; 1 pint of flour; 3 large tablespoonfuls of 
■water ; 10 eggs. Sift in the flour last. 

OLD VIRGINIA SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. J. Glover. 
10 eggs; 1 lb of pulverized sugar; 1 lemon; fib. of sifted 
flour ; beat the yolks of eggs very light; add sugar ; beat half 
an hour; add juice of lemon, beat in well ; beat the whites of 
eggs very stifi"; stir in half of them gently; add half of flour, 
then the remainder of eggs ; last, the remainder of flour ; never 
beat while adding whites of eggs or flour, but stir in well as gent- 
ly as possible ; bake in a moderate oven three-fourths of au 



110 VALUABLE RECIPES, 



hour. Place a bowl of water in the oven while baking the cake. 
WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Miss K Bell. 
Whites of ten eggs or five whole eggs, two cups flour, one 
ounce white sugar, one and one-half cups butter, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, one ounce of ammonia; bake in 
thin layers; use icing between. For Icing— one pint of white 
sugar boiled in a teacup of water; pour it over the whites of two 
eggs, beaten light, 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Miss Clara Waller. 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup sweet milk, whites of ten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one of soda. Bake in three deep jelly cake pans. 
Spread icing between and all over the cake. Icing — Whites of 
four eggs and sixteen tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Flavor 
to taste. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs.H. L. Miller. 

2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, ^ cup cold water, the yolks of five 
eggs, and the whites of 3 eggs, th'e juice and grated rind of one 
orange, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powders. Beat the yolks very 
light, then add the sugar and water; after beating thoroughly, 
then add the other ingredients and buke in jelly tins, in four 
layers. When cold, beat the whites of 2 eggs, stiffen with sugar, 
flavor with juice and rind of 1 orange, and spread thickly be- 
tween layers. 

STARCH CAKE. 
7 eggs, whites only, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 cups 
of sugar, 1 cup of corn starch, 2 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, i teaspoon soda. For flavor, use lemon or rose. 

STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. C. S. Green. 

3 cups of white sugar, 1 cup of starch, dissolved in 1 cup of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. Ill 



aweet milk, 1 cup of butter, whites of 12 eggs, salt, 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder, mixed in 3 cups of flour. Flavor to taste. 

PLAIN MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two eggs, beat separate, one-half cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, two and a half cups of flour, three even 
teaspoons of baking powder; bake in layers. Take whites of 
two eggs, beat light, thicken with sugar. Spread between the 
layers while hot. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke, of Oxford, N. Y. 

^ lb of sugar, \ lb of butter, whites of 8 eggs, i lb of corn 
«tarch, \ teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoouful of cream tartar. 
Flavor with lemon or bitter almonds. 

CUP CAKE. 

/ :. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 4 eggs. Lemon 
extract. 

CUP CAKE. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, (rubbed to a cream,) 5 eggs, 

1 cup of milk, 4 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 teagpoon- 
fuls of cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 
3 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 5 eggs, 1 cup of new milk, 

2 cups of wheat flour, 1 cup of corn starch, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, 2 teaspoonsfuls of cream of tartar, I teaspoonful of mace. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Warner. 
3 cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 5 eggs, 21 cups of flour, 3 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Jelly— 1 lemon, 2 eggs, 5 or 



112 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



6 small apples, 1 cup sugar. Let the jelly cook slow until ifr: 
thickens. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, f cups of butter, | cup of* 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Jelly for Cake;. 
— 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 2 large apples, 1 egg. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. LeeL 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 2| cups of flour, 5 eggs, 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder. For Jelly — 1 lemon, 2 eggs, 3 large- 
apples, or 6 small ones, 1 cup sugar. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary E. Braper, 

3 cups of pulverized sugar, 4 cups of flour, 1 cup of butter,. 
1 cup of sweet milk, 5 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful of soda, 1 lemon. 
Beat butter and sugar well together, add the milk, juice aadi 
grated rind of lemon; stir in the white of eggs, well beaten, after- 
ward the soda, put in dry, and lastly the flour. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Miss Emma T. Johnson. 
2 cups of sugar, 1 of milk, 3 eggs, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon 
of cream tartar, ^ teaspoon of soda. Jelly for Same — 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 egg, 1 apple, 1 lemon, grated; let it boil, and spread. 
on the cake hot. 

LEMON JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Mrs. H. L. Miller. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 large lemon, juice, and rind grated, 3 
tablespoonfuls of water. Beat these thoroughly together, and 
put in a tin basin and set within the uncovered top of the tea 
kettle, which must be kept boiling until the steam thickens it 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 118 



snfficiently. Stir constantly. When cold, spread it betweeaaififee 
layers of cake like any other jelly. This will make one loaf wjJSj 
four layers. 

SILVER CAKE. , 

Mrs. Currie, 
2 cups of sugar, h cup of butter, f cup of milk, '2^ oupe rf 
flour, whites of 8 eggs, f teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaepoonM ^ 
cream tartar. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs BuTwell. 
Whites of 7 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of Gutter, 1 cti9«f 
sweet milk, 4^ cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of soda in a tablespoao 
of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar in the flaur. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gates. 
1^ large teacups even full of butter, 3 teacups of sugar, €la?^ 
eggs, whites only, 1^ cups sweet milk, 5 cups sifted "flosir, (p^t io' 
cups lightly,) 1 teaspoon of soda, 3 teaspoons of cream tartsr* 
put the soda in milk, cream tartar in flour; stir your butter to a 
cream before putting in sugar, then stir butter and sugar w-di 
before adding milk, flour and eggs. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

4 cups of sugar, 1^ cups of butter, (scant,) 1 cup of sw«et 
milk, the yolks of 16 eggs, 5 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfukof ^poaacs 
tartar, 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

GOLD CAKE. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of powdered sugar, yolks of ^ eggs, 1„ 
cup of milk, (sour,) 1 teaspoonful of soda, in milk, 4 -oypsiaf 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. Flavor to suit tlie itftste. 

SPICE CAKE. 

2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1 cnp of water, \ cup of bfit- 



114 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



ter, 2 eggs, ^ lb each raisins aad currants, 1 spoonful of baking 
powder, 1 small pinch of soda. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Dr. Cotton. 

1 cup of butter, 3 cups of sugar, 4 cups of flour, 5 eggs, 1 cup 
of milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon of cloves, 1 teaspoon of nutmeg. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs, C. G. Young. 
3 cups of sugar, 1^ cups of butter, 5 cups of flour, f pint of 
milk, 6 eggs, J pint of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
1 tablespoonfui of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

1 lb of sugar f lb of butter, 1 lb of flour, 10 eggs, 1 tablespoon 
of baking powder. Cream for this Cake — Yolks of 4 eggs, 
well beaten, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of sour cream, 1 teaspoon of 
baking powder, 2 lbs blanched almonds; add whites of eggs, well 
ibeaten. This quantity makes two cakes, six layers each. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 4 cups 
of flour, 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons of cream tartar, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda. Bake in jelly cake pans, and when done, put in each a 
oustard, made of 1 cup of sour cream, 1 egg, ^ lb almonds, (when 
shells taken off",) 1 tablespoon of sugar. Flavor with vanilla, all 
S)eaten together. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Van Der Lyn. 

2 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter; yolks of 5 eggs and whites 
of 2 ; 1 cup of milk ; 3i cups of flour ; \ teaspoonful of soda ; 
1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Filling for the cake — The 



VALUABLE RECIPES, 115 

-whites of 3 eggs ; l|cups of sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls of grated 
•chocolate ; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Miss R. Nye. 
1 lb. of sugar; 1 lb. of flour; | lb. of butter; 6 eggs, or 
whites of 8 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of baking powder in the 
flour ; 1 cup of sweet milk. Dressing for cake — 1^ lb. of brown 
:sugar; ^ lb. of Baker's chocolate; 1 cup of cream ; butter the 
;sizeof an egg; vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of milk ; 1 cup of 
<5orn starch ; 2 cups of flour; the whites of 7 eggs; 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar; ^ teaspoonful of soda; flavor to suit taste ; 
:t<o this, add i cup of chocolate. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Alice Terry. 
I cups of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3^ cups of flour; i cup 
■of sweet milk ; 4 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; bake 
in layers. When cold, spread between the following mixture — 
1 pt. sweet milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch ; 1 egg ; ^ cup of 
sugar. Heat the milk to boiling, wet the corn starch with cold 
milk, stir it in the hot milk ; beat the eggs and sugar, and stir 
them in; put it on the fire, and stir till it is very thick ; when 
tcold, flavor and spread between. 

CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs; 1 teacup of sugar; 1 teacup of flour: 1 small tea- 
.-apoonful of soda; 2 small teaspoonfuls of cream tartar; dis- 
.-solve the soda in three tablesp )onfals of water, the cream tartar 
in the flour ; stir in all the ingredients ; and for the jelly take 
1 pint of milk — leave out enough of the milk to dissolve 2 table- 
;spoonfuls of corn starch ; mix with the starch 2 eggs ; put the 
jpint of milk on the fire, let it come to the scald ; then stir in 



116 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

the eggs aud starch until it thickens ; then add f of a teacuijfc- 
of sugar ; let it cool, and when cold flavor with vanilla. Bake^ 
this cake in two pie-pans, and when done split them in two and^ 
spread on the jelly. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

J/j'ss Emma Bell. 
Use any cake, such as cup, mountain or jelly; bake in layers. 
Put between the following custard — | pint of thick sour cream.1 
or milk; 1 lb. blanched almonds pounded fine; 1 vanilla bean,, 
powdered fine ; 4 eggs — beat them separately ; mix 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar with the whites, and 2 with the yolks ; mix 
all together cold, and put between layers of cake. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. Gihhs. 

1 pint of molasses; 1 qt. of flour; | pint of warm water; t 
teaspoonful of soda; 1 tablespoonful of ginger; 1 teacup of but- 
ter ; 1 egg and a little salt, 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Oibbs, 
1 qt, of buttermilk ; 1 pint of meal ; 3 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of 
soda; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of salt. Bake in^ 
a hot oven. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. T.S. Currie. 
1 cup of butter; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 pint of molasses ; 5 eggs ,: 
5 cups of flour ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 1 teaspoonful of soda, one- 
half in the molasses and one-half in the milk ; 1 tablespoonful'. 
of strong ginger. Other spices to taste. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. George Johnson. 
1 cup of butter; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup» 
of sour milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of soda in milk, and one ic» 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 117 



^molasses ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in flour; flour 
-enough to make the consistency of cup cake ; ginger, 

MARK GINGER CAKES. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 

1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoonful of 
.-ginger; J cup of sour milk; dessertspoonful of soda; as much 
dour as you can stir in with a spoon; roll out, mark, and 
■t»ake quickly on baking tins. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

3Irs. A. Mc Far land. 
1 pint of New Orleans molasses; 1 teacup of sour milk ; 1 ta- 
blespoonful of butter or lard ; 1 tablespoonful of ginger ; 3 cups 
of flour; 1 tablespoon of soda, one-half of which must be stirred 
onto the molasses, and the other into the sour milk, until they 
ifoam, when the other ingredients are added and thoroughly 
stirred. Bake in a moderate oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take 1 teacup of raised sponge, (bread sponge ;) icup of lard 
or butter; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 eggs; teaspoonful of salt ; cinna- 
mon and nutmeg to taste, and flour enough to work stiff"; let it 
rise, and roll out thin, and cut as you fancy, and fry in hot 
lard. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. Wm. Van Wagenen. 

:2 cups of sugar ; 2 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of shortening; 1 cup 
<®f sweet milk; nutmeg; flour enough to stiffen it. Fry in hot 
^ard^ 

CRULLERS— PLAIN. 

Mrs. J. R. Clarke. 

Iqt. -of flour; 1| cups of sugar; 1 egg; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted lard or butter, or 3 tablespoonfuls of sour cream, which 
is better; ^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved m a little warm water; 



118 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



mix with sweet milk, making the paste as soft as you can well 
roll it out. 

JUMBLES. 

1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 eggs; ^ cup sour milk.,*; 
J teaspoonful soda ; spices. Mix dough soft, and bake quick. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 cups of sugar; 1 cup of sour milk; 1 teaspoon of soda; 5- 
eggs; lump of butter size of an egg; flour enough to make a 
stiff dough. Fry in hot lard. 

QUAKER CAKE. 

1 lb. of sugar ; J lb. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour ; 5 eggs ; 1 
cup of sour milk. 

COOKIES. 

Mn L. B. Dana. 

1 cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of sour milk or but- 
ter milk; 2 eggs; lemon; 1 teaspoonful of soda. Roll out- 
thick, with as little flour as possible. Bake quickly. Dust coarse 
with sugar over before putting in oven. 

COOKIES. 

4 eggs; 3 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter; \ cup of milk ; 1 
teaspoonful of soda ; nutmeg to suit taste, and knead soft as 
possible. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. Wm. Balcom, of Oxford, JV. T. 

2 cups of molasses ; 1 cup of shortening; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
soda; 1 teaspoonful of ginger ; 1 teaspoonful of alum; 1 tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar ; 1 cup of hot water ; half of water- 
on soda, and half on the alum. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. IW> 



Q^i&in^^^ll^ni^^nn (Gm&'e^*^^ 



MARBLE CAKE. 



Black Cake. — Yolks of 7 eggs; 2 cups of brown sugar; 2 
cups of molasses; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of sour milk; 5 cups 
of flour ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 2 teaspoons of cinnamon ; cloves, 
allspice and nutmeg. 

White Cake. — Whites of 7 eggs; 2 cups of sugar; 1 cup 
of butter; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 3 cups of flour; 1 teaspoon of 
soda; 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

VANILLA CAKE. 

3 eggs ; h cup of butter ; ^ cup of milk ; 2 cups of flour ; 1^ 
cups of sugar ; 2 teaspooufuls of baking powder ; 1 teaspoouful 
of vanilla. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Mrs. H. A. Towne. 
Blanch ^ lb, of almonds, pound a few at a time in a mortar 
to a fine paste, with a little extract of lemon, or add to the paste 
an equal weight of white sugar, pulverized; whites of two eggs. 



IW VALUABLE RECIPES. 



1K>^ beaten ; work it together with the back of a spoon till it is 
a mce paste, then dip your hand in water and roll iato balls 
tisesize of a nutmeg; lay them an inch apart on white paper on 
albaking tin, passing a wet finger over each one, to smooth it; 
feftfee f of an hour in a slow oven. Use grated cocoanut instead 
«£almonds, if you wish, 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gihhs. 

White Part. — Whites of 4 eggs; 1 cup of white sugar; -^ 
cap of butter; ^ cup of [sweet milk ; 1 teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar;. 2^ cups of flour. Dark Part. — Yolks of four eggs; 1 
cs^of brown sugar ; \ cup of molasses ; ^ cup of butter; ^ cup 
«f 8€»«3r nailk ; 1 teaspoonful of soda ; 2^ cups of flour, a little salt 
SBMi plenty of spice. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 
% etjps of bread dough ; f cup of butter ; 3 eggs ; 2 cups of 
ac^ar; \ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in butter; 1 lb. raisins; 
1 ftsaspoouful of nutmeg ; add a little flour ; when well mixed, 
lei it stand and rise an hour before baking. 

SPLIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

1 pint of sour milk ; a little salt ; 1 tablespoon of lard ; 1 ta- 
Mespoon of butter, melted ; 1 teaspoon of soda; just enough 
fear to roll ; bake thick enough to split and butter. 'Tis splen- 
^M. lor strawberry cake. 

NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 

2! cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 2 eggs ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 
4cHip9 of flour; 1 teaspoonful of soda; ^ teaspoonful of cream of 
^; 1 pint of nut meats. 

VELVET CAKE. 

Miss Jennie McFarland. 

). of sugar; 1 lb. of flour; ^ lb. of butter; 5 eggs; dis- 



VALUABLB RECIPES. 121 

solve a light teaspoon of soda in a cup of sweet milk; stir a tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar in the flour ; flavor with lemon or van- 
illa, and bake one hour. 

THANKSGIVING CAKE. 

4 lbs. of light dough ; 2 lbs. of sugar; 1 lb. of butter ; 4 eggs; 
beat butter and sugar together one hour, divide it into two equal 
parts ; work one-half in the dough ; let it rise, then work in the 
other half, with the eggs well beaten ; let it rise again, then add 
a spoonful of water, a teaspoon of soda, one nutmeg, one pound 
of raisins, l^lbs. of currants. Bake one hour and a half. 

JUMBLES. 

-S-. E. F. 
3 cups of sugar; \\ cups of butter; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 5 
<:ups of flour ; 2 eggs ; 1 small teaspoon of soda. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Harry Balcom. 
1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of shortening ; 1 
tablespoon of ginger; 1 of soda, and 1 of vinegar; 1 egg and 
flour enough to roll good. 

WEBSTER CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of milk ; 1 egg ; 1 
teaspoon of soda ; f lb of raisins. Flour as in fruit cake. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Hull, of Oxford, N. Y. 

1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of sugar; 1 tablespoonful of soda; 
1 tablespoonful of ginger, then add a cup of melted butter, 1 
egg ; beat this well, then 3 cups of flour, then 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar; beat thoroughly. Flour sufficient to roll out very 
thin. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

^ lb, of grated cocoanut ; \ lb. of loaf sugar ; whites of three 

[9] 



122 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



eggs. Bake on white buttered paper, dropping the cakes at a 
little distance from each other. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

^ cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 3 cups of flour; 1 cup of 
sweet milk ; 2 cups of hickory nuts, cut fine ; 1 teaspoon of van- 
ilia ; 2 teaspoons of baking powder ; 4 eggs beaten separately. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Jas. W. Newman. 
1^ cups of sugar ; | cup of butter ; f cup of sweet milk ; 2 
cups of flour ; 4 eggs (whites) ; 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar ; 
^ teaspoonful of soda ; 2 cups of nuts. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

Mrs. 0. F. 3Ioore. 
1 cup of sugar ; f of a cup of butter ; 3 eggs ; 1^ cups of 
flour ; 3 tablespoonfuls sour cream ; 1 teaspoonful of soda ; 
nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon to taste ; 1 cup of blackberry 
jam ; stir all together and bake in sheets like gingerbread, and 
spread with icing. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Geo. Johnson. 

5 pints of sifted flour; J lb. of butter; 1 pint of molasses ; ^ 
teaspoon of soda; 1 teacup of rolled sugar; 1 tablespoonful of 
ginger ; 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

MADISON CAKE. 

I lb. of butter ; | lb. of sugar; 1 lb. of flour ; 8 eggs ; 1 gill 
of cream, or rich milk; 1 nutmeg; £ lb. of raisins, seeded and 
chopped ; f lb. of currants, washed and dried ; i lb. of citron, 
cut fine. Beat the butter and sugar until very light, to which 
add the cream; whisk the eggs very ligbtly, and add gradually 
with the flour, and spice , and, lastly, add the fruit. Line the 
pan with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 123 



COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; li cups of molasses; 1 lb. 
of raisins; 1^ cups of coffee, (prepared as for the table;) 1 tea- 
spoon of soda; 2 teaspoons of creara of tartar; 8 cups of flour ; 
3 eggs ; 1 tablespoon of cloves; 1 tablespoon of cinnamon; 1 
lemon. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 
1 cup of butter; 2 cups of white sugar ; 1 cup of milk; 3 
eggs; ^ teaspoon of soda ; a scant teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar; 3 cups of flour. Stir butter and sugar together, then add 
the beaten yolks, then the beaten whites of eggs. Dissolve soda 
in milk, rub the cream of tartar in flour, and add the last thing. 

KISSES. 

Mrs. W. Van Der Lyn. 
To the white of 1 e^g, 9 teaspoons of granulated sugar ; 1 of 
corn starch ; beat the eggs very stiff*; drop them with a teaspoon 
on paper that cold water has been poured over. Bake slowly ia 
a moderate oven. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Clarke. 

1 R) of sugar ; | lb of butter ; 5 eggs ; \ teacup of cream ; 1 
teaspoonful of soda ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream qf tartar ; 1^ tea- 
spoonfuls of cloves; 1 teaspoonful of mace; 3 lbs of raisins; ^ 
lb of citron ; 1 ft of flour. 

CURRANT LOAF. 

Mrs. Mar J A . Grimes. 

2 qts. of flour ; 1 fb of currants ; 1 large cup of sugar ; 3 eggs; 
spice to taste ; ^ lb of butter or lard ; 1 gill of yeast. Knead 
all together when raised light. Bake in a moderate oven. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

2 cups of dried apples, soaked one night, then chopped rather 
fine; add 1 cup of molasses, and let them cook a little; when 



124 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



cold, add to cake 1^ cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, f cup of but- 
ter, 1 cup of raisins, 8 teaspoonfuls of water, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, a little citron and spice to taste, 

LINCOLN CAKE. 

IJ or 2 cups of sugar; ^ cup of butter; 2 eggs ; 1 cup of 
sweet milk or water ; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, thorough- 
ly mixed through 3 cups of flour. 

CLAY CAKE. 

Mrs. Hull. 

1 lb of sugar ; ^ lb of butter ; 1 lb of flour ; ^ pint of cream ; 
6 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar ; 1 teaspoonful of so- 
da; flavor to taste. 

FEDERAL CAKE. 

^ cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 cups of flour ; i cup of 
sweet milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar; iof so- 
da ; 1 lb of fruit. 

MUNN CAKE. 

Mrs. M. B. Rose. 

2 cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 4 eggs ; 1 cup of sweet 
milk; 1 teaspoonful of soda; flour enough to make it as thick 
as ordinary cake ; 2 small cups of raisins, seeded and chopped ; 
cinoamon and spices to your taste. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 

3 cups of sugar ; 4 cups of flour ; 1| cups of butter ; 1 cup of 
milk ; 1 lb of raisins ; 1 lb of currants ; 1^ teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder ; 1 tablespoonful of cloves ; 1 tablespoonful of cin- 
namon ; 1 nutmeg; 4 eggs. 

A GOOD SUGGESTION. 

la baking cake or bread, always place a bowl of water ia 
the oven ; this will prevent scorching. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 125 



.^^> 



BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Mrs 0. A. Lodwick. 

1 pint N. 0. sugar, \ pint of N. 0. molasses, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, as mucli pulverized alum as will lay on a knife blade, 
the same of baking powder, butter, (free from salt,) the size of 
an egg. Flavor with 4 drops of lemon. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss Emma T. Johnson. 
3 lbs of coffee sugar, 1 lb of butter, 1 cup of cream, 1 cake of 
Baker's chocolate. Dissolve sugar in cream, then add butter 
and chocolate, and vanilla to taste. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Mrs. Geo. 0. Newman. 
6 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of vinegar ; 1 cup of water ; table- 
spoonfiil of butter put in at the last with 1 teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water; boil without stirring half an hour, or 
until it crisps in cold water. Pull white with the tips of your 
fingers. 

WALNUT CANDY. 

Mrs. Jas. W. Newman. 

1 pt. of silver drip molasses; 1 pt. of walnut kernels ; \ pt. 
of coffee sugar ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a 



126 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



small pinch of salt ; stir all together in a skillet before putting 
on the fire ; boil until brittle when dropped in water, stirring 
often to keep the candy from burning. 

HOMEMADE CANDY. 

To 1 cup of sugar, (New Orleans is best,) add 1 cup of cider 
vinegar; if the viuegar be very sour, put in ^ water. Boil fifteen 
to twenty minutes, then work till white. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss Jennie Gharky. 

1 teacupful of sugar, 1 teacupful of molasses, 1 teacupful of 
milk, ^ teacupful of butter, | pound of chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss Mamie Gibbs. 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of milk, ^ cup of grated 
chocolate, alum size of a pea. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Miss Julia Pursell. 

1 qt. of white sugar, f pt. of water, \ pt. of vinegar. Boil 
these until it hardens when dropped into water; then add 2 
teaspoons of vanilla or lemon, butter, the size of an egg; be 
careful not to stir while boiling. When sufficiently cooked, pour 
on buttered dishes to cool; when nearly cold, pull until white. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Miis Kate Crichton. 
To 1 lb of cocoanut add \ lb of sugar, whites of 6 eggs; there 
should be egg enough to moisten the whole. Drop on paper and 
bake. 

EVERTON TAFFY. 

1^ lbs of brown sugar, 3 oz. of butter, 1^ teacups of water, 1 
lemon. Boil the sugar, butter, water, and half the rind of a 
lemon together; have a quick fire, and stir it all the time; when 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 127 



it is quite crisp in water, set it aside until the boiling stops, then 
stir in the juice of the lemon. Butter a dish, and pour it in a 
•quarter of an inch thick. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Mrs. Geo. 0. Newman. 

1 pt: N. O. molasses, 1 pt. sugar, \ pt. butter; stir all together 
and boil till, when dropped in cold water, it will be brittle. Pour 
-out in well buttered pans and let cool. 



-IPO OX) IF-OT^ THZE SIOIC 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

There can be no greater accomplishment in a housekeeper than 
that of being able to cook nice, dainty preparations for the sick. 
Nothing disgusts an invalid so much as to be given food look- 
ing mussed and untidy. Let all dishes be fresh and sweet, and 
all food looking clean and dainty. 

Be careful in making porridge or gruel, to have it free from 



128 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



lumps. Always mix the flour or meal in a part of the water^ 
and stir it into the remainder. 

TO CURE AGUE. 

Squeeze the juice from plantain leaves, and take a tablespoon- 
ful three times a day. 

FOR COUGH. 

One teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in half a teacup of 
water three times a day — midway between meals, and at bed- 
time. 

LOCK-JAW. 

A poultice of scraped beet. 

BOILS. 
Take beet leaves, wilt, bruise, and ase as a poultice ; whens 
these can not be had, scraped beet wilt be almost as good. 

NIGHT SWEATS. 

Sage tea, drank cold, is excellent. 

BOWEL COMPLAINTS. 

For children or adults the following is very good, and also for- 
infants during the second summer: 1 tb of blackberry root 
to 1 pt. of water ; simmer slow until reduced one-half; add 
sugar to make a thick syrup. For a child, a teaspoon- 
ful three times a day ; in bad cases, oftener. 

FOR SORE BREAST. 

Mutton tallow size of an egg ; beeswax, half size of egg ; ^r 
pt. of sweet oil; 1 tablespoonful of saffron ; rosin size of an egg, 
powdered and thoroughly melted. Add to the mixture 1 tea- 
spoonful of spirits of camphor, and ^ teaspoonful of turpentine. 

FOR SORE BREAST. 
^ teacup of ground allspictj ; ^ teacup of white pepper ; ^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 129 



teacup of mutton tallow; J teacup of beeswax ; rosin as large 
as a walnut; 2 tablespoonfuls of honey. Heat the abov-e well 
together, but do not let it burn. Dip in a linen cloth, and lay 
on the breast ; change as often as it gets cool. 

COUGH SYRUP. 

MrB. G. Lytton. 

5 cts. worth of boneset; 5 cts. worth of life-everlastiag-; 5 
cts. worth of spignet ; 5 cts. worth of comfrey ; 5 cts, wofftfa 
of licorice; 10 cts. worth of gum arable; 10 cts. worth of 
honey; ^ ft) of white sugar; boil the roots and herbs tcgetfecr, 
strain and add the rest ; boil in half-gallon of water ; when 
done, you will have about three pints ; a wine-glass fuM for a 
dose three or four times a day. 

CURE FOR COUGH. 

3 oz. of pure pine tree gura, dissolved in Jpt. of alcohol, witb 
1 oz. of essence of juniper ; when the gura is dissolved, add I 
qt. of Holland gin — gin would be dangerous except as «sed in 
this recipe ; take .3 ft)s of white sugar, and add to it ^ 
pt. of water ; boil this until it becomes a syrup ; pour the other 
ingredients in, stir well, and strain. Dose, a tablespoonful thre^ 
or four times daily. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 

2 quarts of rain water ; 1 ft) of raisins ; 5 cts. worth of licorioe; 
J ft) of rock candy. Boil this to 1 quart; strain^ 2 tafele- 
spoonfuls three times daily ; add a little vinegar when taken, 

CURE FOR DROPSY. 

1 pt. of strong ginger tea; 1 oz. of cream tartar; thiswh«le 
quantity is to be taken daily until there is a marked improve- 
ment in the patient, after which a smaller quantity will ausw^er. 

A COLD. 

A hot lemonade is one of the best remedies in the world for 



130 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



<5old. It acts promptly, and has no unpleasant after-effects. 
One lenaon, properly squeezed, cut in slices, put with sugar and 
covered with half a pint of boiling water. Drink just before 
going to bed, and do not expose yourself the next day. This 
remedy will ward off an attacii of chills and fever, if used 
Uromptly. 

EEMEDY FOR CROUP. 

^ teaspooaful pulverized alum in a small quantity of molasses ; 
Fepeal dose every hour until the patient is relieved. 

DIARRHOEA. 

Mm. S. Fuller. 

A tablespoonful of flour, mixed in a tumbler of water, and 
takeu at intervals during the day, will cure diarrhoea. 

CURE FOR HEADACHE. 

Mrs. E. Pond. 

Put a handful of salt in a quart of water ; add 1 oz. of spir- 
5ts of hartshorn and half an ounce of camphorated spirits of 
wif^; put them quickly into a bottle and cork tightly, to pre- 
vent the esca|>e of the spirits ; soak a piece of rag with the mix- 
ture, and apply it to the head ; wet the rag afresh as soon as it 
gets beate<]. 

DRIED FLOUR FOR FEEDING CHILDREN. 

M. H. 

1 Clip of flour, tied in a strong muslin bag and dropped into 
■cold water; then boil three hours; turn out the flour ball and 
■dry m the sun all day ; or, if needed at once, dry in a moderate 
-oven, without shutting the door. To use it — Grate a table- 
.-spoenful for a cup full of boiling milk and water (half and half) ; 
■^et the flour with a very little cold water. Stir in and boil five 
EXMSfites ; add a little salt; sweeten, if you wish. 

TEA LEAVES FOR BURNS. 

Tea leaves, slightly steeped, cooled, and laid on a burn, will 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 131 



-quickly relieve the pain and iuflamraation. They will doubtless 
Sielp to do this for a minutes, at least, until flour can be applied. 
Jn all cases where the burn breaks the skin, a coat of wheat 
idour, put on dry, is the very best application. 

CURE FOR NEURALGIA. 

Mr». T. J. Grahim. 

Pulverised sal. ammonia, ^ oz. ; camphor water, 3 oz. ; 
ijnix. Dose, one teaspoonful 4 or 5 times a day. 

SURE CURE FOR FELON. 
Strong, mercurial ointment, spread on linen cloth. Apply- 
when the sore first appears. 

HERB TEAS. 

Marian Uarland. 

Herb teas are made by infusing the dried or green leaves ov 
stalks in boiling water, and letting them stand until cold. Sweet- 
•«a to taste. 

-Sage tea, sweetened with honey, is good for a sore throat, used 
^8 a gargle, with a small bit of alum dissolved in it. 

Catnip tea is the best panacea for infant ills, in the way of 
'■cold and colic, known to nurses. 

Pennyroyal tea will often avert the unpleasant consequences 
of a sudden check of perspiration, or the evils induced by ladies' 
Ihin shoes. 

Chamomile and gentian teas are excellent tonics, taken either 
cold or hot. 

The tea made from blackberry roots is said to be good for 
:suraraer disorders. That from green strawberry leaves is an ad- 
taiirable and soothing wash for a cankered moutli. 

Tea of parsley root, scraped and steeped in boiling water, taken 
swarra, will often cure strangury and kindred affections, as will 
"iihat made from dried pumpkin seeds. 

Tansy, rue and fennel seeds are useful in cases of colic. 

A tea of damask rose leaves, dry or fresh, will usually subdue 
iaiiy simple case of summer complaint in infants. 

JNIint tea. made from the green leaves, crushed in cold or hot 



132 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

water, and sweetened, is palatable and healing to the stomack, 
and bowels. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL. 

3Irs. C. E. TurUy. 
4 tablespooufuls of meal, made into a smooth batter withi cold 
water; pour it into a quart of water actually boiling. Continue- 
to boil for one-half hour, stirring well from the bottom ; season) 
with salt. Some prefer it sweetened. 

BEEF TEA. 

1 or 2 pounds from the neck of the beef, cut in small pieces,, 
(being careful to remove the fat;) put it into a wide-mouthed^ 
bottle, cork it, and set in a vessel partly filled with cold water,, 
and place over the fire; let it cook slowly until the juice is ex- 
tracted. Salt to taste. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast 2 thin slices of bread a nice brown, put them into a 
quart pitcher, and fill with cold water. Cover and let stand a^ 
few minutes before it is used. 

VINEGAR WHEY. 

4 tablespoonfuls of good vinegar sweetened with white sugar p 
stir it into a pint of boiling milk; set it over the fire and let it 
simmer ten minutes; strain it through a fine sieve. When cold,. 
if not sufficiently sweet, add sugar. 

MULLED EGG. 

1 egg, well beaten, 1 slice of bread, toasted, broken into sraallj 
bits; over this pour a pint of boiling water, stirring all the while^ 
Sweeten to taste. Nutmeg. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Put 2 lbs of sugar and 2 oz. of tartaric acid in 3 pts of water; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 133 



«et on the stove and boil about five minutes, then set it away to 
•cool; beat the whites of four eggs to a very stiff froth, then beat 
in ^ cup of flour and the juice of two lemons; stir this in the 
liquid, and add 1 tablespoonful of the essence of wintergreen. 
3ottle and keep in a cool place. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of syrup 
in a tumbler, fill it ^ full of water, add a very little soda. Stir 
it up. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Mrs. C. E. Turley. 

Cut the chicken small and crack the bones well; put it into 1 
^t. of cold water, without salt; cook until it falls to pieces ; strain, 
add 1 tablespoonful of rice or barley, soaked in a very little 
warm water; 4 tablespoonfuls of milk; salt and pepper; simmer 
for five minutes, taking care it does not burn. Serve hot with 
<jrackers. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Put raspberries into a pan and scarcely cover them with strong 
vinegar; add 1 pt. of sugar to 1 pt. of juice. Scald it, skim it, 
and bottle when cool. 

DRINK FOR SICK. 

1 oz. of gum arable in a large glass, a lump of ice, and fill with 
water. 

RICE JELLY. 

Boil ^ lb rice flour with ^ lb of loaf sugar in 1 qt. of water 
until it becomes one mass. Strain off the jelly and let it cool. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

To 1 pt. of juice add 1 lb of sugar; boil twenty-five minutes* 
-add cinnamon and cloves to your taste. Seal while hot. 

SAGO GRUEL. 
2^ cups of water^ 2 tablespoonfuls of sago, 3 teaspoonfuls of 



134 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



white sugar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice or nutmeg to taste, and 
a pinch of salt. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

To 6 oysters take ^ teacup of their own liquor, the same of 
milk ; boil one minute. Season with butter, pepper and salt,, 
and pour over a slice of buttered toast. 

BEEF TEA. 

Mrs. C. E. Turley. 

1 lib of lean beef cut in small pieces; put in ajar without m 
drop of water, cover tightly and set into a pot of cold water;; 
heat gradually to a boil, and continue boiling steadily for three- 
or four hours, until the juice is all drawn out; season with salt,, 
and when cold, skim. The patient will often prefer this ice cold» 

CORN MEAL GRUEL. 

2 qts. of boiling water, 1 cup of meal, 1 tablespoonful of floirrj. 
salt to taste, or use sugar and nutmeg. Wet the meal and 
flour to a smooth paste with cold water; stir into the water 
while it is boiling. Boil slowly half an hour, keeping it welii 
stirred to prevent burning. 

EGG AND MILK. 

Beat separately the yolk and white of a fresh egg, sweeten it 
to your taste, and add to the yolk a tumbler of fresh milk, thec; 
stir in the white. 

OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oat meal with a little cold water,, 
and stir it into a pt. of boiling water and let it boil fifteen min- 
utes; add a little salt or sugar, to taste, also a little nutmeg, if 
approved. 

PAP OF BOILED FLOUR. 

Tie a teacupful of flour closely in a cloth and boil it six hours^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 135 



then grate some of it and mix with cold milk until of the con- 
sistency of thin starch, then stir into hoiling milk; when done, 
sweeten to (aste with loaf sugar; salt can be used to season, if 
preferred. 

SHERBET. 

Make 1 qt. of strong lemonade, add 1 qt. of milk, and thee 
freeze. 

SMITH'S COUGH POWDER. 

3{rs. Currie. 

Elecampane root, 2 oz., licorice, 2 oz., blood root, 2 oc, 
crane's-bill, 2 oz., Indian turnip, 2 oz., all pulverized fine. Dose 
— I teaspoonful three times daily. This is a good expectorant, 
pectoral and tonic. 

CURE FOR FELON. 

As soon as inflammation begins, take tincture of lobelia, satu- 
rate a cloth and bind it on. This will kill the felon. 

PLASTER FOR GATHERED BREAST, 

Mrs. A. Reed. 

^ teacapful of allspice, \ teacupful of black pepper, \ teacup 
of mutton tallow, \ teacup of beeswax, rosin as large as a walnut, 
2 tablespoonfuls of honey. 

TO AVOID A COLD. 

Change the stockings two or three times a day, if they become 
wet from perspiration. Avoid cold draughts upon any part of 
the body; or unequal temperature from any cause, such as evap- 
oration of moisture from wet clothes on a portion of the per.son. 
The clothing wet all over, is less productive of colds than wbera 
partly wet. You might jump naked into a snow bank and not 
take cold, but receive serious injury from immersing only a hand 
or a foot in the snow, while the rest of the body is kept warta. 
Unequal temperature upon different parts of the body, di.sturbs 



lS6i VALUABLE RECIPES. 



the circulation of the blood and produces a cold. The best pre- 
caution, however, is to keep the system vigorous by temperance, 
by a generous diet of digestible food, with plenty of sleep. 

ANTI-CHOLERA MIXTURE. 

Mrs. Carrie. 

1|^ dracbm tincture of ammonia, 1\ drachm of camphor, 1^ 
duachta of opium, ^ drachm of rhubarb, 1| drachm of cayenne 
pepper, \^ drachm of essence of peppermint. Dose — 15 drops 
every fi.fteen minutes, in a wine glass of water, until checked. 

FOR FROZEN FLESH. 

A poultice made of corn meal, mixed with an infusion of 
young hyson tea, and laid over burns and frozen flesh as hot as 
€aa be borne> will relieve pain. 

POTATO POULTICE. 

Potato poultice, more agreeable than bread, keeps heat longer; 
cau be re-heated. Peel, boil, mash fine, spread on a cloth, 
moisten and apply. 

CURE FOR DYSPEPSIA. 

Mix. together equal quantities of bran and sugar, and brown 
iss' the oven like coffee ; take two or three times a day. 

FOR CORNS. 

The strongest acetic acid, applied night and morning, will 
remove hard or soft corns in a week. 

TO PREVENT WOUNDS FROM MORTIFYING. 

Sprinkle sugar on them. Obstinate ulcers may be cured with 
sogaar dissolved in a strong decoction of walnut leaves, 

CURE FOR WA&P STINGS. 

Flour mixed with saleratus water and made into a poultice. 
I2aw onions sliced for a bee sting. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 137 



HOP POULTICE. 

A haudful of hops boiled in i\ piut of water, and mixed with 
corn meal, is good for a sore throat or swelled face. 

MUSTARD PLASTER. 

To make mustard plaster, use whites of eggs, and it will not 
blister. 

SALVE. 

Mrs. T. G. Lloyd. 

1 oz. vial of Venice turpentine; 1 oz. of rosin; ^ lb of but- 
ter (without salt) ; 1 oz. of red precipitate. Pulverize the rosia 
and sift it through book muslin ; rub the butter with your hands 
until it creams, and lastly mix in turpentine and red precipitate. 

TO CURE A WEN. 

Wash it with common salt, dissolved in water, every day, and 
it will be removed in a short time. 

TO CURE DIPTHERIA. 

Mrs. E. Pond. 
Take a common tobacco pipe, place a live coal in the bowl, 
drop a little tar on the coal, draw the smoke into the mouth, and 
discharge it through the nostrils. 

TO PREVENT FLIES INJURING PICTURE FRAMES 

Boil three or four onions in one pint of water ; brush your 
frames over with the liquid, and no fly will touch them. It will 
not injure your frames. 

TO CURE WHITE SWELLING ON THE KNEE. 

A poultice of elder leaves applied around the knee, and 
changed three times a day. This has been tried when amputa- 
tion seemed necessary, and proved a cure. 

[10] 



138 VALUABLE EECIPES. 



TO PREVENT A FELON. 

Mrs. E. Pond. 

When a soreness is felt, immerse the fingers in a basin of wood 
ashes and cold water ; set it on the stove while cold and stir it 
continually without taking it out, till the lye is so hot it cannot 
be borne any longer; if the soreness is not gone in half an hour, 
repeat it. 

SIMPLE REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. 

Bathe the parts affected with hot potato water. 
CURE FOR STRAIN. 

3Iiss E. Bell. 
The yolk of 1 egg and salt to mix to a salve. 

ROCK CANDY COUGH MIXTURE. 

Mrs. A. P. 

^Ib. rock candy; 2 oz. of best gum arabic; 3 lemons (juice 
only) ; \ pt. of water ; steam until dissolved ; desertspoonful a 
dose. 

A SPEEDY REMEDY FOR CROUP. 

Mrs. Wm. Armstrong, Rijoley, 0. 

1 tablespoonful of melted lard, taken inwardly ; saturate a 
piece of cloth with lard not melted, cover thick with grated 
nutmeg, then lay it on the throat and chest. 

TOOTHACHE REMEDY. 

A roasted onion bound on the wrist, over the pulse, will stop 
the ache in a few minutes. 

CURE FOR PHTPIISIC AND ASTHMA. 

Mrs. Wm. Armstrong, Ripley, 0. 

1 teaspoonful of white mustard seed, taken whenever the 
symptoms are felt. It will arrest it instantly. [This is also 
good for a cough; dose, 1 teaspoonful, three times a day. — Mrs. 
Fuller.] 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 139 



CURE FOR SCURVY OR CANKER SORE MOUTH. 

Burn a corn cob, and use the ashes. Apply to the sore three 
or four times a day. 

CURE FOR HOARSENESS. 

Whites of 2 eggs, beat with 2 spoonfuls of white sugar ; nut- 
meg ; 1 pt. of warm water ; stir well, and drink often. 



cm^mtS<G^^X.AM^<i>VrS*'^D 



HARD SOAP. 

3Irs. A. McFarland. 



Pour four gallons of boiling water over six pounds of sal soda 
and three pounds of unslacked lime. Stir it so as to get the 
strength ; let it stand over night ; pour the liquor off carefully, 
add six lbs of soap fat, and boil until it becomes thick like hon- 
ey. Stir it occasionally, and add a handful of salt just before 
taking it off from the fire. 

EXCELLENT HAIR WASH. 

Ta'^e one ounce of borax, half an ounce of camphor ; powder 
these ingredients fine, and dissolve them in one quart of boiling 
water; when cool, the solution will be ready for use ; dampen the 



140 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



hair frequently. This wash effectually cleanses, beautifies, and 
strengthens the hair, preserves the color, and prevents early 
baldness. The camphor will form into lumps after being dis- 
solved, but the water will be sufficiently impregnated. 

TO TAKE OUT GREASE. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 

To erase sewing machine oil from muslins, soap the spots and 
wash in cold water. 

A CLEANING POLISH FOR FURNITURE. 

Take of olive oil 1 pound, of rectified oil of amber, 1 pound ; 
spirits of turpentine, 1 lb.; oil of lavender, 1 oz.; tincture of al- 
kanet root, \ oz. Saturate a piece of cotton batting with this, 
and apply it to the wood, then with a soft rag, rub well and 
wipe off dry. This will make old things new. Must be kept 
tightly corked. 

TO RESTORE GILT FRAMES. 

Mrs. D. McFarland. 

Take one ounce of cooking soda and beat it thoroughly with 
the whites of three eggs. Blow pff the dust with a pair of bel- 
lows, or brush it out with a feather duster, then dip a small paint 
brush into the mixture, and rub it all over the gilding, into 
every tiny crevice, and it will render it fresh and bright. 

COLD WATER SOAP. 

Mrs. N. Barker. 

14 lbs. of rosin bar soap ; 3 lbs. of sal soda ; 1 lb. of rosin ; 8 
oz. of salt; put these in 6 or 7 gallons of soft water on the 
fire till dissolved, then put the same in a barrel and fill with 
soft water ; add 2 oz. of spirits of turpentine and stir well. 

TO CLEAN SILVER. 

J lb of cyanide of potassium ; | lb of salts of tartar. Dissolve 
this in 1 gallon of soft water. Put the article to be cleaned in 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 141 



the solution a minute or two, then wash in hot soap suds, and 
rub with soft cloth. This solution must be used in an earthen 
vessel when cleaning silver, as it is poisinous. The same solu- 
tion can be rebottled and used many times. 

FOR DISOBEDIENT CHILDRMN. 

Mrs. C. E. Tttrleij. 

Take a nice, green, limber switch, from a thrifty young peach 
tree ; apply briskly where the clothes are thickest. Amen. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 

Strong tea sweetened well and set in saucers, will attract flies, 
and destroy them as effectually as the poisoned paper commonly 
used. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

Salt, sprinkled upon the carpet before sweeping, Avill make it 
look bright and clean. This will also prevent moths. 

WASHING FLUID. 

1 lb. of sal soda ; 1 lb. of lime, over which pour 2 gallons of 
boiling water; let it stand until settled. Strain, and add 10 
oz. of brown soap, sliced up. Let it simmer until dissolved, 
then put in stone or glass vessels and cork tight. 

DEATH TO INSECTS. 

2 lbs of alum dissolved in three or four quarts of boiling wa^ 
ter, and applied to all cracks and crevices, will keep out ants, 
roaches, spiders, bedbugs, &c. , &c. 

TO REMOVE WATER STAINS FROM BLACK CRAPE. 

When a drop of water falls on a black crape veil or collar, it is 
apt to leave a white spot, which may be removed by spreading 
the crape on a table, having a piece of old black silk underneath. 



142 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



and taking a camel's hair brush, dipped in common black ink 
and rubbing over the spot, then wipe the ink off with a piece of 
silk. It will dry immediately, and the spot will have disap- 
peared. 

DEATH TO BEDBUGS ESPECIALLY. 

^ lb. of fish berries, cracked ; 1 pint of water ; boil these to 
gether until reduced to ^ pint ; add 1 pint of whisky, bottle and 
mark poison. Apply with brush. 

TO SET THE COLORS OF CALICOES. 

One oz. of sugar of lead to a gallon of water will set the colors 
of two dresses. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

1 oz. of white wax ; 2 oz. of spermaceti ; 1 oz. of gum of 
camphor ; 1 oz. of olive oil ; melt slowly on stove. Put up air 
tight. 

TO CLEAN WHITE PAINT. 

A tablespoonful of ammonia to a quart of water. Wash with 
a soft cloth. 

TO CLEAN BRASS STAIR RODS. 

Mix coal oil with ashes, and scour well, then rub off with dry 
ashes. 

TO REMOVE PIMPLES AND MAKE THE SKIN 
SMOOTH. 

Make a tea of red clover blossoms, and wash the face two or 
three times daily. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Mrs. Currie. 
20 lbs of strained grease; 18 lbs. of potash ; 2 lbs. of rosin ; 
turn in grease first, then the rosin ; dissolve potash in hot water, 
stir it vigorously. After it has had time to purify itself by set- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 143 



tling, turn in the solution on the grease, stir it again, and add 
sufficient water to make a barrel of soap. Repeat the stirring 
every day for a week. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

Shake them well and tack them down, then mix half a pint of 
bullock's gall with 2 gallons of soft water; use soap and this mix- 
ture; scrub with a soft brush ; rub dry. Your carpet will look 
like new. 

TO CLEAN STRAW MATTING. 

A coarse cloth dipped in salt and water ; wipe dry. The salt 
will keep the matting from turning yellow. 

SALVE FOR CHAPPED LIPS AND HANDS. 

Mrs. E. Pond. 

Take 2 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of spermaceti, 4 oz. of oil of 
almond, 2 oz. of English honey, J oz. essence of bergamot, or any 
other scent. Melt the wax and spermaceti, then add the honey and 
melt all together, and when hot, add the almond oil by degrees, 
stirring till cold. 

TO POLISH FURNITURE. 

One part of flaxseed oil ; three parts of alcohol ; shake well 
and apply with silk or linen cloth, then rub hard and dry with 
another cloth, or chamois skin. 

TO REMOVE ODOR. 

To remove the disagreeable odor within a refrigerator, apply 
gum shellac two or three times to all the wood work exposed in 
the inside, being particular to have the wood perfectly dry be- 
fore the first application. The gum shellac can be purchased at 
any paint shop, and costs but a trifle. It closes all the pores of the 
wood, thus stopping absorption, which is the cause of the musty 
odor. 



144 VALUABLE RECIPES. 



TO KEMOVE KUST FROM STEEL. 

Rub with sweet oil ; after two days, clean with pulverized 
lime. 

TO TAKE GREASE OUT OF SILKS. 

Mrs. Graham. 

Take a lump of magnesia and rub it, (wet,) over the spot, let 
it dry, then brush the powder off, and the spot will disappear. Or 
take a visiting, or other card, separate it and rub the spot with 
the soft internal part, and it will disappear without taking the 
gloss off" the silk. 

TO EXTERMINATE ROACHES. 

Mrs. A. McFarland. 
Procure a small quantity of Paris green" from the druggist, 
and put it into a small tin box with perforated top. Sift it in 
the corners and places infested wifh roaches, and it will exter- 
minate them in a very short time. As the Paris green is poison 
the box should be marked "poison." 

TOOTH POWDER. 

Mrs. T. J. Graham. 

Pulverized orris root, 2 oz. ; English prepared chalk, 2 oz.; 
cuttle fish bone, scraped, 1 oz.; pulverized gum myrrh, \ oz.; 
pulverized white sugar, 1 oz. Scent with otto of roses. 

PEARL DROPS FOR THE SKIN. 

Mrs. Emma L. Kendall. 
1 lb. of flake white ; \ pint of bay rum ; 3 pints of rain water; 
^ oz. of glycerine, and a few drops of oil of rose; a few drops of 
vinegar rouge. Boil the water and pour over the flake white, 
and stir well until smooth. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 
To destroy flies in a room, take half a teaspoonful of black 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 145 



pepper in powder, one teaspoon ful of brown sugar, and one ta- 
blespoonful of cream ; mix them well together, and place them 
in a room on a plate, where the flies are troublesome, and they 
will soon disappear, 

KASFBERRY VINEGAR. 

M. F. 
Put a quart of fine fruit into a bowl, and pour upon it a 
quart of the best vinegar ; next day strain the liquor, and 
squeeze the fruit on a quart of fresh raspberries, and the following 
day do the same; the last time, pass it through a canvas bag 
previously wef with vinegar, to prevent waste. Put it into a 
stone jar, with a pound of white sugar to every pint of juice, 
then put the jar into a kettle of water ; let it simmer ; skim it 
and when cold, bottle it. 

TO PRESERVE POTATOES TILL SPRING. 

Put a quantity of powdered charcoal on the bottom of the po- 
tato bin; ifc will preserve their flavor, and prevent the sprouts 
from shooting out so early as they otherwise would. 

TO MAKE AN OLD FOWL TENDER. 

L. E. W. 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice put in the water in which it is 
boiled. Strong vinegar may be used, but is not so good. 

FINE COLOGNE WATER. 

Mrs. C. E. Turley. 
1 drachm of oil of bergamot ; 1 drachm of oil of lavender; 2 
drachms of oil of lemon ; 2 drachms of oil of rosemary ; 50 drops 
of tincture of musk; 8 drops of oil of cinnamon ; 8 drops of oil 
of cloves; 1 pint of alcohol. 

LEMON ICE. 

Mrs. John G. Peebles, 
1 lb. of sugar to a quart of water; let it dissolve; 3 large lem- 



146 VALUABLE KECIPES. 



ons. Just before you put it in the freezer, add the whites of 2 
well beaten eggs. This will make one quart. Increase in pro- 
portion. 

ICE (COUNTERFEIT PURE) CREAM. 

Mrs. C. E. T. 
To 2 qts. of milk, add the yolks of 8 eggs, well beaten, and 
two jelly cups of sugar ; heat almost to boiling, then add 1 ta- 
blespoonful of flour (made into a smooth batter with cold milk,) 
and the white of eggs beaten to a stiif froth ; heat until it thick- 
ens, stirring constantly. Set aside until cool. Flavor and 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. J. N. Si anger. 
Cover your raspberries with vinegar and let them stand a 
week. To every pint, when strained, add a teacup of water and 
2J lbs. of sugax', and boil five minutes. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Take one or more quarts of sour milk, put it in a warm place, 
and let it remain until the whey separates from the curd, then 
pour it into a bag and hang it up; let it drain until all the whey 
has dripped from it, then turn it out, and mash with a spoon un- 
til very fine ; add cream, with salt to taste, before sending to ta- 
ble. A little nutmeg added, makes it very palatable for some. 

HOW TO KEEP MEAT. 

Meat may be kept several days in the height of summer, sweet 
and good, by lightly covering it with bran, and hanging it in a 
room where there is a current of air. 

TO SWEETEN CASKS. 

i pint of vitrei mixed with a quart of water, and the mixture 
poured into the barrel, roll about; next day, add 1 K) of chalk, 
and roll again. Bung down two or three days, then rinse well 
with hot water. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 147 



TO EXTINGUISH A FIRE IN A CHIMNEY. 

Throw some powdered brimstone on the fire in the grate, then 
pot a board or something in front of the fire place. The vapor 
•of the brimstone ascending the chimney, will extinguish the soot 
on fire. 

TO CLEAN MIRRORS. 

Wash the glass with soapsuds and a sponge. When dry, rub 
it with a buckskin and a little prepared chalk, finely pow* 
dered. 

SCENT BAGS. 

lavender flowers, | lb ; rose leaves, ^ lb ; dried thyme and 
mint, of each, ^ oz.; ground cloves and caraways, of each, J oz.; 
common salt, dried, 1 oz. Mix the whole well together, and 
pot in silk or cambric bags. It will perfume the drawer and 
linen nicely. 

TO PURIFY GLASS VESSELS. 

Glass vessels, and other utensils may be purified and cleaned, 
by rinsing them out with powdered charcoal. 

ROSE HAIR OIL. 

1 pint of olive oil ; 15 to 16 drops of the otto of roses. To 
color it red, use alkanet root, 1 drachm. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

Dissolve one ounce of Venice turpentine in Haifa pint of al- 
cohol. 

POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 

Muriatic Acid (Spirits of Salt.) — Mix an ounce of cal- 
oned magnesia with a quart of water, and give a wineglassful 
every five minutes. Soap, chalk, or whiting scraped off the wall, 
mijLed with water, milk, oil, white of eggs, or demulcents of any 



148 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

kind, may be given till magnesia can be obtained. Vomiting to 
be afterward excited by tickling the throat with a feather or the 
finger. 

Sulphuric Acid (Oil of Vitriol.) — The antidotes to this 
poison, are calcined magnesia or the carbonate of magnesia, finely 
powdered, and mixed with milk or water as above. These should 
be administered immediately. In the absence of these, give 
soapsuds, water of wood ashtis, milk, sweet oil, gruel, or aay 
mild diluent that first comes at hand, and do not lose a moraetit 
in waiting for the most appropriate chemical remedy. Exter- 
nal parts, burnt with the acid, should be washed with soap aad 
water. 

Nitric Acid (Aqua Fortis.) — The antidotes are the same- 
as for sulphuric acid. 

Prussic Acid, or Substances Containing it, as Oil of 
Bitter Almonds, Cherry-Laurel Water, Wild Cher- 
ries, &c. — A stream of cold water, as cold as can be obtained,, 
should be poured from a pitcher, on the head and spine, and also 
dashed upon the face and chest. The only antidote known that 
can be conveniently resorted to, is ammonia, which should be 
administered as soon as possible. If hartshorn is not at hand, 
give ten or twelve grains of the salts out of a common sraellitig- 
bottle, and apply it at the same time to the nostrils. 

Oxalic Acid. — Give an emetic, and favor copious vomiting 
by plenty of warm water, and then proceed as in poisoning from 
muriatic or sulphuric acid. 

Aconite. — If vomiting has not been occasioned by the poi- 
son, it should be excited at once by some active emetic, and fa- 
vored as much as possible by tepid drinks or gruel. A cup or 
very strong coffee, or vinegar, diluted with water, may thea be 
given with advantage. If there be insensibility, frictiott and 
warm mustard pastes or blisters should be resorted to. 

Potash. — Give vinegar diluted with water, lemon juice, miik:,, 
oil, mucilaginous drinks, and induce free vomiting. 

Ammonia. — Give the same remedies as in poisoning by pot- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 149 



Belladonna. — Stomach-pump, or an active emetic as soon 
as possible. 

Hellebore. — Same as for belladonna. 

Calomel. — Give whites of eggs, milk, sweet, sperm or cas- 
tor oil, flour beaten up with water, gruel, etc., until a stomach 
pump can be obtained. 

Cantharides (Spanish Fly.) — An emetic, followed by mu- 
'Cilaginous drinks. 

Copperas. — Same as for calomel. 

Verdigris. — Same as for calomel. 

Arsenic. — An emetic immediately, and vomiting to be pro- 
moted by draughts of demulcent drinks, as milk, gruel, flour 
aBfl water, broths, etc. There is no antidote to be relied upon 
as a specific against this poison. Olive oil is extolled by some 
as acting to envelop the particles of arsenic, and preventing its 
aljsorption. It may be given when convenient at hand. 

Sugar of Lead. — Give Epsom salts dissolved in water, and 
iudte free vomiting. 

€t>RROSiVE Sublimate (Bedbug Poison.) — The antidotes 
for this poison, are the same as for calomel. 

Opium, Laudanum, Morphine, etc. — Give an emetic of 
masilard and alum, promote copious emeses, and follow with 
draughts of very strong coffee or diluted vinegar. Also dash 
aM water upon the face, and prevent the patient from sleeping 
by walking him around, pricking with a pin, etc. 

IjUjie, or Lime Water. — Give vinegar, lemon juice, or any 
vegetable acid, and follow with demulcent drinks. 

Phosphorus. — Give large draughts of water, milk, or gruel, 
so as to envelope the phosphorus, and exclude it from the air con- 
tained in the alimentary canal. Then give magnesia or chalk 
t» neutralize the poison. Oily or fatty substances should not be 
(Bed. Burns occasioned by this substance, should be washed by 
some alkaline solution, as soda, and afterward, poulticed. 

Nitrate of Silver. — The antidote to this poison is common 
table salt. Dissolve a tablespoon of this in a bowl of water, and 
let the patient drink of it every few minutes. Mucilaginous 



150 VALUABLE EECIPES, 



drinks should then be administered, followed by a dose of castor 
oil. 

Strychnine. — Give freely of whites of eggs, sweet oil, etc., 
and produce vomiting as soon as possible. There is no realaU' 
tidote known. 

Pieces op Glass or Powdered Metal. — Give large quaa- 
tities of crumbs of bread to envelope the particles, and thea aa 
emetic of mustard. 

Iodine. — In case of an overdose of any of the preparations of 
this substance being taken, the first object is to evacuate the 
stomach, promoting the vomiting by large draughts of demulcent 
liquids, especially those containing starch, as common starch of 
wheaten flour, sago, milk, arrowroot, etc. These to be followed 
by opiates. 

Saltpetre, — As there is no chemical antidote for this salt 
known, it should be cleared from the stomach as speedily as pos- 
sible, and the patient to drink freely of milk, gum-water, or 
other bland mucilaginous drinks. 



THE YOUNG^ LADY'S TOILETTE. 



SELF-KNOWLEDGE— THE ENCHANTING MIRROR. 
This curious glass will bring your faults to light, 
And make your virtues shine both strong and bright. 

contentment— WASH TO SMOOTH WRINKLES. 
A daily portion of this essence use, 
'Twill smooth the brow, tranquility infuse. 

TRUTH— FINE LIP SALVE. 
Use daily for your lips this precious dye, 
They'll redden, and breathe sweet melody. 

PRAYER— MIXTURE, GIVING SWEETNESS TO THE VOICE. 
At morning, noon, and night, this mixture take. 
Your tones improved, will richer music make. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 151 



COMPASSION— BEST EYE WATER. 
These drops will add great lustre to the eye ; 
When more you need, the poor will you supply. 

WISDOM— SOLUTIONS TO PREVENT ERUPTIONS. 
It calms the temper, beautifies the face. 
And gives to woman dignity and grace. 

ATTENTION AND OBEDIENCE— MATCHLESS PAIR OF EAR-RINGS. 
With these clear drops appended to the ear, 
Attentive lessons you will gladly hear. 

NEATNESS AND INDUSTRY— INDISPENSABLE PAIR OP BRACELETS. 
Clasp them on carefully each day you live. 
To good designs they efficacy give. 

PATIENCE— AN ELASTIC GIRDLE. 
The more you use the brighter it will grow, \ 

Though its least merit is external show. 

PRINCIPLE— RING OF TRIED GOLD. 
Y'ield not this golden circlet while you live, 
'Twill sin restrain, and peace of conscience give. 

RESIGNATION— NECKLACE OF PUREST PEARL. 
This ornament embellishes the fair. 
And teaches all the ills of life to bear. 

LOVE— DIAMOND BREAST PIN. 
Adorn your bosom with this precious pin ; 
It shines without, and warms the heart within. 

POLITENESS— A GRACEFUL BANDEAU. 
The forehead neatly circled with this band, 
Will admiration and respect command. 

PIETY— A PRECIOUS DIADEM. 
Who e'er this precious diadem shall own, 
Secures herself an everlasting crown. 

GOOD TEMPER— UNIVERSAL BEAUTIFIER. 
With this choice liquid gently touch the mouth ; 
It spreads o'er all the face the charms of youth. 



152 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Grood Salesmen "Wanted ! 

APPLY TO 

J. T. GRAYSON. 



exj^m:ine the mieimts 

OF THE 

leelfiriffilsonSewinilacliine, 

Before you buy any other. It is the best and 
the Cheapest. Over 800,000 ♦^f these Machines 
are now in use. 40,000 more sold annually for 
family use, than of any other make. 

The New Feed and Improvements put on the 
old Wheeler & Wilson, and warranted as good as 
new. John Clark jr. & Go's Spool Cotton on Black 
Spools, is the best thread for Hand and Machine 
Sewing. Merchants and Dealers supplied at the 

XiO"V7"EST nvcj^E-KZET ^:E^IOES. 

A full stock always on baud. Orders from Merchants and 
Dealers solicited, and orders filled with dispatch. Office and 
Salesroom 

CORNER OF WASHINGTON & 2D ST., PORTSMOUTH, 0. 
J. T. GUiAYSOlN^, Agent. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 153 



SewingMachineSalesof 1 873 

The Siuger Mauufactiiring Company sold 232,44:4: 

Wheeler and AVilsou Manufacturing Company sold 119,190 

Doraestic Sewing Machine Company sold 40,114 

Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company sold 36,179 

Weed Sewing Machine Company sold 21,769 

Wilson Sewing Machine Company sold 21,247 

Howe Machine Company sold no returns 

The sales of fourteen other small companies ranged from 1(1,41)1 down to 
217 machines each. AVhile the Singer Manufacturing Company shows a 

In their business over that of 1872. All other companies have fallen off largely. 
A glance at the above will practically demonstrate the 

Superiority" of tlie "Siii.^er" Machine. 

GEORGE D. SELBY 

General Agent Singer's Machine, 119 West Second Street. 

P. S. lAMS, JAS. T. GORDON, WM. M. PURSELL, 

President. Cashier. Ass't Cashier. 

pmav mvmmis bmm 

or por^xsiytoxiTH, 

w^wtwmwm^^^'WWK^, ©mo. 

Designated Depository of the United States. 

DIRECTORS, 

P. S. Iams, L. C. Damarin, B. B. Gaylord, 

John P. Terry, Jas. Y. Gordon. 

[11] 



154 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



DEALER IN 

CLOTHS, CASSIMERES, VESTINGS, 

ALSO 

Overcoatings, Shirts, Drawers, Cravats, 

And all kinds of 

Second Street, hetiveen 3Iarket and Court, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



The clothing is of his own manufacture, and from the best New York 
bouses, and will be warranted to give satisfaction. 

His goods are of the finest quality, and the largest variety in the city; 
and his facilities will enable him to fill all orders on the shortest notice. 



JAS.M.RUMSEY. THOS. E. TYNES. (lEO. A. RUMSEY, Special. 



Dry Goads & Motions^ 

1*33 ^West Second Street, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 
-jfr^ 

AVe sell in competition with all points, always have on hand fresh and desir- 
able stocks of 

I>K.^ir GJ^OODS ^^lVr> IVOTIOIVS, 

And cordially invite an examination of the same before purchasing elsewhere. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



155 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

ALL KIIDS OF FDIIITm, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 

r*oi*t»siiiioiitli, Oliio. 

Salesroom 121 West Second Street, Factory, corner of Second and 
Jeflersou Streets. 



^« 



i^^L©!! 



■VT-HOXjESJLXiiHl 



^«^ 



©otrmep ©f TEiirrd] aoiii Slapket §tp©©tSo 
-yr. 

Buyers visiting the city arc invited to call. Estimates for work furnit-hed . 
Prices low as the lowest. 



ialtotHatori^ 



Wholesale Manufacturers of all kinds of 

FimilTDBE AID CHAIRS. 

OFFICE AND SALESROOM: 

205 AND 207 MARKET ST., AND 149 WEST SECOND ST. 
Factory, Mill Street, between Gay and Bond. 

POJtTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



156 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



HIBBS, ANGLE & CO. 



Dealers in 



135 \Vest Front Street, 

Portsraoutli, O. 

We have constantly in stock the following specialties, viz : Egg beaters, 
(several varieties), cherry seeders, apple pearers, brass kettles, spoons, tnble 
cutlery, scissors, shears, coffee mills, wood and tin sieves, brushes, pruning 
tools, fluting machines, (three kinds) 

IikJLrs. P*ott's Cold. Handle Sad Irons, 

Scales, butcher knives, lawn mowers, etc., etc. 

ALBERT KNITTEL, 

Baker and. Coiifectionex*, 
J^'anc/y Cake and Ice Cream. 

IPiii'ties a^nd "W eclcliiig-s Siii> plied. 

Corner 4th and Court Sts., Portsmouth, O. 



PETER BRODBECK, 

Dealer in 



CARPETS, OIL CLOTH AND CARPET CHAIN, 

Boots and Shoes, and ITotions of all Kinds. 

114 W. 2d St., bet. Market and Court, PORTSMOUTH, 0. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. ] 57 



House Establislied : 
1 8 5 5 , 

I860, 



]Boots, ^lioes. 

Hats, li^ixrs. 

Stock Unrivaled for Extent, Variety, and General 
Adaptation to the Wants of the Retail Trade. 

MOTTO— "Good Trade and Fair Treatment." 

421 and 423 Chillicotlie Street - - - POETSMOUTH. 0. 



fat. ^©mt^Zt 



Dealer in 



Watches, Clocks, Jewelry and Fancy Goods, 

2d St., two doors above Market, PORTSMOUTH, 0. 



Repairing Done Promptly, and Warranted. 



.A-g-ent for* 

Howard & Co.'s Watches and Clocks. 



158 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



MILLER, VOORHEIS & CO,, 

AVliolesale Clotliiers, 

117 WEST M ST., PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 

Piece Goods, for Men's and Boy's Wear, 

JEAIVS, COTTOMAOES, ETC. 

JOaj'^esi Sloc/c in This Market. 
J . ISr. LEEDOM, 

Dealer ia 

Dry Goods, Carpets, Oil Cloths, Boots, Shoes, Etc. 

Chillicothe Street, Between Gth and 7th. 
No Credit Given. Don't Ask it. 

Manufacturers and Exclusively Wholesale Dealers in 

Boots, Shoes, Hats, Leather and Findings, 

131 W. Front St., PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



Particular attention is invited to our 

CUSTOM ^V O R K ! 

Made at the 

Portsmouth Shoe Manufactory. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 159 



DAN'L R. SPRY, 

Druggist and A-potliecary, 

Corner Second and Market, (Fountain Place) 



DEALER IN 



Drugs, Medicines, Pure Oils, Paints, Varnishes, 

Fine Toilet Soaps, Brushes, Perfumery, 
and Fancy Goods. 

Saratoga Spring Water! 

Soda from G-lass Fountains I 

Prescriptions and Family Compounds carefully prepared. Pure Wines 
and Liquors for Medicinal purposes. Dye Wood and Dye Stuff generally. 

PUBU GOODS AJ^D LOW PRICES. 

J. L. HIBBS. I. N. CLOSMAN. 

J. L. HIBBS & CO., 

(Late Hibbs & Co.) 
Wholesale Dealers in 

At the Old Stand, Sign of the Anvil, 

115 and 117 W. Front St., PORTSMOVTE, OHIO. 



HIBBS, RICHARDSON & CO., 

Exclusively Wholesale Dealers in 

Boots, Shoes, and Hats, 

116 ir,MSt., PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



160 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



w^WLmmEmE*^ 



IMPORTERS ANn UEALKRS IN 



ftUEENSWARE, GLASSWARE, CHINA, SILVER PLATED 
WARE, FANCY GOODS AND TOYS. 

*AV>. 125 J'Yoitt Street, J'ortsmouth, Ohio. 



Aside from a full assortment of all kinds of Queensware, China and (jlassware,, 

may be found at our house such goods as are enumerated in the 

following Housekeeper's List: 



Argand Burners, 

Artificial Flowers, 

Basting Spoons, 

Bronze Ornaments, 

Bread Knives, 

Butcher Knives, 

Burners, 

Biscuit Pans, 

Butter Knives, 

Baskets, Clothes, 

Baskets, Market, 

Baskets, Traveling, 

Baskets, Moss, 

Baskets, Work, 

Baskets, Luni-h, 

Bracket Lamps, 

Bird Cage Hooks, 

Basins, Tin, 

Basins, Papier Ma^he, 

Brackets, 

Busts, 

Bath Tubs, 

Berry Bowls, 

Bureau Sets, 

Boot Jacks, 

Cake Pans, 

Cullenders, 

Chamois Skins, 

Coffee Pots, 

Cofi'ee Pot Stands, 

Coolers, 

Carvers and Forks, 

Chandeliers, 

Chimneys, 

Coffee Mills, 

Call Bells, 

Candlestieks, 

Can Openers, 

Coal Vases, 

Casters, 

Cake Baskets, 

Chafing Dishes, 

Card Stands, 

Cake Boxes, 

Canisters, 

Chimney Cleaners, 



Childrens' Trays, 
Cologne Sets, 
Crumb Brushes, 
Crumb Pans, 
Curtain Pins, 
Cake Cutters, 
Cracker Boxes, 
Cake Pans, 
Corn Poppers, 
Dish Pans, 
Dippers, 
Dredges, 
Dusters, 
Egg Beaters, 
Foot Scrapers, 
Fruit Jars, 
Fruit Knives, 
Fruit Baskets, 
Freezers, 
Flower Pots, 
Fish (ilobes. 
Folding Hat Backs, 
Fruit Can Cement, 
(las Stoves, 
Gas Shades, 
Gas Tubing, 
(Jas Lighters, 
Gas Portables, 
Gas Burners, 
Graters, 



Looking Glasses, 

Lemon Squeezers, 

Lemonade Mixers, 

Match Safes, 

Mountain Cake Pans,. 

Mouse Traps, 

Milk Pans, 

Myer's Hat Racks, 

Nut Cracks, 

Napkin Rings, 

Nursery Lamps, 

Nest Eggs, 

Oyster Dishes, 

Pudding Pans, 

Patty Pans, 

Pie Pans. 

Pond Lily Shades, 

Refrigerators, 

Syrup Bottles, 

Star Individual Salts,. 

Spice Boxes, 

Soup Ladles, 

School Sets, 

Shades and Holders,. 

Study Lamps, 

Scoops, 

Stove Polish, 

Sapolio, 

Slipper Pockets, 

Sealing Wax, 



Glass Shades and Stands, Tea Spoons, 



Garden Vases, 
Gravy Ladles, 
Iced Glassware, 
Ice Chests. 
Jelly Cake Pans, 
Jelly Moulds, 
.Japanese Waiters, 
Knives and Forks, 
Knives, Ivory Handle, 
Knives, Silver Plated, 
Lamps, 
Lanterns, 
Lamp Shears, 
Lamp Mats, 
Lamp Shades, 



Table Spoons, 

Table Mats, 

Toilet Ware, 

Thermometers,. 

Towel Racks, 

Teapots, 

Tea Trays, 

Tumbler Drainers,. 

Vases. 

Wall Protectors. 

AVhisk Brooms, 

Wicks, 

Wire Dish Covers,^ 

AVater Pails, 

Water Sets. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 161 






^ 



PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



MASSIE HOUSE, 

PRENDERGAST & JEININGS, 

I*ortsmoixth.- Oliio. 



Dealer in 

DRY GOODS, CARPETS, 

OIL CLOTHS, MATTINGS. RUGS, WINDOW SHADES, ETC. 
Cor. 2(1 and Market Sts., Portsmoiitli, Ohio. 



162 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Wholesale Dry Goods, 



EST^iLBStfii© TWE&«1rY'-@&l]E YEABS. 



WHOLESALE DEALERS IN 

DRY GOODS AID lOTIOIS 

129 FEONT STREET, POKTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



I am constantly supplied with a magnificent stock of 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC DRY GOODS, 

Suitable to the Seasons, and which I propose to sell as heretofore, 
in competition with any market. 

On the first, second and third floors of my building will be found the choicest 
styles of the choicest goods. Discarding all trashy goods, and purchasing only 
those ot the latest and freshest designs, my stock will please merchants of taste 
and judgment. My stock embraces in part: 

Brown and Bleached Sheetings and Shirtings, Ticks, 

Prints, Ginghams, Delaines, Merinoes, Alpacas, Poplins, 

Cloths, Cassimeres, Tweeds, Jeans, Satinets, Drills, 

Flannels, White Goods, Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Baskets 

Fancy Soaps, and all kinds of small wares pertaining to a first- 
class Notion House. 

Maysville and Zanesville Cotton Yarns, Batting and Carpet 
Chain. 

I would invite the merchants of Southern Ohio, Eastern Ken- 
tucky, and Western Virginia to visit my house. 

Goods will be shown cheerfully, or price lists will be furnished 
by mail, when desired. 

Traveling Agents: P. J. Reed, G. W. Belts, Geo. Seott. 

jr. F. TO^VELL. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



163 



^ 



JPortsmontli, Oliio, 

Dealers in 

2Cllinery, RiblDons, Flowers and Feathers, 



Hats and ^BoiinotSi 

In all the new shapes. 

jr. Side Sd St., let. Market ^ Court, POBTSMO UTH, 0. 



— AV H O L E 8 A I. E — 

C O i^T F E C T I O N ER S , 

And Dealer in 

Foreign & Canned Fruits, Fnts, Fireworks, etc. 

Market Street, PORTSMOUTH, 0. 



BWi 



Dealer in 



Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

HP o 1* t s m o 11 1 Ix , O. 



«i% 



Wholesale Dealers in 



Staple and Fancy Groceries, 



164 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Sign of the Big Book, Second Street, 

I^OK.T^]>XOXJTH, OlilO, 

Dealer in 

Books & S t a t i o 11 e X* y . 

ECLIPSELIYERY STABLE. 



T. jM;. L^'IVTV - - Proprietor. 



Second Street, West of Market, Portsmouth, 0. 



Livery Teams of all kinds furnished in the Finest Style. 



'^m.mmtsZi. 



5P 

Dealer in 

Drugs, Medicines, Chemicals, Perfumery, 
Toilet and Fancy Articles. 

Oig-ars and. I^aliiiig- Ir^owdler 

.d STUCIAZl'T. 

Every Lady Should Use our Opera House 
Baking PoT\^dex*. 



Cor. Jfth and Court Sts..,, Portsmouth, 0. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 165 



lilllnery aM Faicy Kools, 

:S. W. Corner Chillicothe and 4th Sts. 

Farmers' National Bank, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO, 
Oapital JPaia in - - #^^0,000. 



articular attention paid to collections, and proceeds promptly remitted. 



New York Correspondent:^ 

N i n t li IX a t i o 11 a 1 IB auk;. 

GEO. DA VIS, President. J. M WALL, Cashier. 

M:isses COE & KEER, 

MILLINEKS, 

Sd St., Portsmontli, O. 

"W. W. LITTLE. ED. N. HOPE. 

^W. ^W. LITTLE & CO., 

AVhoIesale and retail dealers in 

ASHLAND, POMEROY, PITTSBUKG and ANTHRACITE COAL, 

Have facilities for filling orders for any quantity on short notice. 

Sieamboats siqiplied with Coal at Wharf, all hours, Day or Night. 

OFFICE— Corner Front and Court Streets. 



166 ADVERTISEMENTS., 



FRENCH MILLINERY ESTABLISHMENT. 



PATTERlf BONNETS FOR THE TRADE. 



IVortli Side Second. Street*. 

between Court and ll^as/ihigtoii, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 






NORTHWEST CORNER OF 

Cliillicotlie and Sixtli Streets, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



Keeps constantly on hand a full line of everything pertaining to- 

THE I>3RXJC^ :bxjsi]vess. 

IKTME. I. 13-ll.Air ^ GO., 

DEALERS IN 



Ittetailins" at "W^liolesale IPriees- 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



167 



PLUMBIITG, GAS, AUD STEAM FITTING, 

PLUMBERS' GOODS, STEAM WHISTLES, 

Pumps, Steam and Water Gauges, Globe and Check Valves^ 
Gas, Steam and Water Cocks, 

Second Street, between Market and Court. 



Grocers, Um M Coiifectioier 



Second Street, Ibeween Court and Wasliington. 

Grocer and Produce Dealer, 

Wilhelm's Opera House, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



DENTIST, 



OFFICE: 

Cor. of Second and Washington Streets. 
Portsmouth, Ohio. 



WiLHELM & CONROY, 

Manufacturers of 

T I>^, COPPER, 
Sheet Iron Ware, 

And dealers in Stoves, Grates and 

Hollow -AVare, 
Second Street, near Court, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO- 



168 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



. H. JOHNSON & CO., 

1^1 SecoiidL Sti-eet, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

DKY GOODS 



j^JsrzD 



Invite the attention of the public to 



FIEST-CLASSGOODS, 



— SOLD AT — 



TJniform. Prices ! 

W. H. JOHNSON & CO. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 169 



MARKET STREET, PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 

JOBBERS AND RETAILERS OF 

Sclioolliscellaiieois&BlanMoob 

WRITING PAPERS, ENVELOPES, STATIONERY, 

Wall Papers, Window Shades and Cornices, 

Pictures, Frames, Gilt Mouldings aud Fancy Goods. 
Grive IX s a Call- 

J. F. DAVIS, D. L. JONES, 

formerly of Davis, Threlkeld & Co., Cin. of Packer & Jones. 



Wholesale and Metail 



DKUGGISTS, 

123 West Front Street, 



Fortsmoixtli, O. 

[12] 



170 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



JS^. tS "Em IEm JLm , 

Bakery, Confectionery, 

A N D 



No. 11 ~V\^est Second Street. 

JOS. G. EEED. JOHN PEEBLES. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN 

NfltioflsJosieryJIiite (joois 

A N D 

SPECIALTIES IN DRY GOODS, 

KOaipktt St!r©©t» West SEd)©,, meaip Wm^t^ 

I^ortsmoutli, O. 

THOS. T. YEAGER. JOHN DICE. 



©Iff Uwmy mi ®afe &taU§® 

YEAGER & DICE, Proprietors, 

MARKET STREET, BETWEEN THIRD AND FOURTH, 
POR^TSMOUTH, OHIO. 



-zTA- 



Horses kept by the Day or Week. Terms ReasonaWe. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 171 



SAM'L M'CONNELL, T. J. PURSELL, II. A. TOWNE. 

M. D. WILLIAMS, E. B. GREENE, R. A. MITCHELL. 

B§l0t§ mm PIf§ IrM Work$ 

McConnell, Towne & Co., 

Ma n nfacU i r ers of 

OF ANY DESIRED SIZE AND SHAPE, 

Inwalls, Bosh and Hearth Brick for Furnaees, and every variety of Tiles for 
Stoves, Grates, Boilers, Gas and Coal Oil Works, &c., &c. 

-i^lso, Fine Grroixnd. Fire Olay. 

Pi'ompt Attention Given to Orders. 
(Address,) PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



WMMI^'^ WMM^'mrW ^EaOiUTR,, 
Limestone Mollis/' 



ae 



BY THE 



Barrel, Half-Barrel and Sack. 

M. W. THOMPSON & SON, 
134 l^est Second. Street, 

iPOiaTSiyEOTJTH:, o. 

Lehman, Richman & Co., 

MANUFACTURERS OP 

Jobbers in "\^^oolens5. 

IS^ Front Street, Fortsmonth, O. 



172 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



ENOS REED, 

3D rtXJ C3i-C3rl!ST, 

Tribune Building, Cor. 2nd and Court Sts„ 

P^ortsmontlij Oliio. 

Specialties: 

Pure Flavoring Extracts, 

Lemon, Vanilla, Stra-v«7berry, 
Pine Apple, Celery and Rose. 

Pure Ground Pepj^er, Cinnamon, Cloves, Allspice, 
Ci*eaiii Tartai" anci Soda. 

Hi. 1=1.. 2M[OI=tC3rja.3Nr, 

Successor to Flauders & Morgan, 

MERCHANT TAILOR, CLOTHIER, 

AND DEALER IN 

G-ents' Furnishing O^oods, Trunks, 

Ch-ildrens' STiits, Etc. 

Hassl© ©!l@©k„ lyilapk©! §t!r©©t» PQ)P*sni!iQ)CslKij, @fe8@« 



TO HOTJSEKIEEFER^S. 



When Baking Powder is to be used in any of the Recipes of this Book, be 

sure and buy 

Maguire's Unrivaled Baking Powder, 

Manufactured only by 

.A.. I>. ]\i:iLLEI2^5 JPropi-ietor, 

I» OR TSJUO UTH, OHIO. 

It is pronounced by those who use it the best manufactured. Ask your gro- 
cer for it. 

Also proprietor of Miller's Diarrhoea Mixture and Cough Honey, the safest 
remedies offered. No family should be without them. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 173 



I n s LI r a n c e ^ gen cy . 

W. H. BONSALL. DA N . M ' FAR LAND, JR. 

^W. H. BO]>TSA^LL & CO., 

lis ^V^'est Second. Street. 



Losses of this agency at Portsmouth, paid -ivithin the last (i years, to July 1, '73. 

Fire $37,ir,9 00 

Hull 1(1,250 00 

Life 10,000 00 

Accident 3,052 00 

Cargo 2 



Prompt attention Riv- 
en to all matters pertain- 



;i7i 00 1 ing to Insurance. 



J O HE ISr Y O A_ K L E Y, 

Dealer in 

naiios, iZ^rg-aiis aii<i "Violins^ 

^^11 liiiicls of* Sti'ing-s, 

Musical Instruments, Musical Merchandise, 

And Slxeei; ]>£iisic!!. 

lis West Second Street, JPortsmoutJi, Ohio. 

General agent for Pianos and Organs of every make — Special agent fornone. 

:^. j^. "CJ C3r XJ S T I KT, 

Manufacturer and dealer in 

AMERICAN AND FRENCH CANDIES, 

Fruits and Nuts of all kinds, etc., 

Second. Street, near iM^arket. 

Fianosancl Organs. 
DECKER BROS. UNRIVALED PIANOS, 

The Favorite Valley Grem Pianos, 
Estey's Cottag-e Organs,. 

And a o-reat variety of other Pianos and Organs for sale or to rent until paid 
for. D.S.JOHNSTON. 

Washington Street, bet. 3d and 4th, Portsmouth, Ohio. 



174 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



J. W. MARCH. DAVID OVERMAN, 

of Hillsboro, 0. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN 

Boots, Shoes, Hats, Caps, &c. 

IVIarket Street, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO 



Freestone and Marble Works 

GALLIA STREET, BETWEEN GAY AND BOND, 

JPoi-tsmoiitli, Ohio. 

Post Office Box 178. 
c/r^ 

All Orders Promptly Attended to, and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

I. REITZ. CH. C. BODE. 

Contractors and Builders, 



AND DEALERS IN- 



SAWED & BLOCK STONE, 

D E A L E R I N 

Children's Wear, Mourning Goods, 

TOILET ARTICLES, &c.. 

Stamping Done to Order in New Patterns. 

Second Street, between Court and Washington, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



175 



H. EBERHA^JRDT & CO., 

Dealers in 

STOVES, TINWARE, MANTLES, ETC., ETC., 

9) ^--— ^«s^^ o 



© 

e8 
U 

o 

H 

O 

© 



EH 
Q 




^=^/ _ 



Market Street, West Side, Between Front and Second, 

DEALERS IN 

JEIstts^ GsLjpfSy DF'xxrs, 

Gents' Furnishing Goods, &c. 

60^ Chillicotlie Street, 

Tfep©© dl@@ps Pi]@ptEi @f Sktii Stp©©t. 



W. E. HAIVCOCIi:, 

Fruit, Fish and Oyster 

HO. 106 SECOND STREET, 
Portsmouth, ©. 



IVI. F. Micklethwait dt Bro., 

DEALERS IN 

Family Groceries, 

CORNER OF 

Market and Second Streets, 

POKTSMOUTH, OHIO. 



176 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Scioto Valley Fire Brick Co., 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

WILSON'S IBIFROVED 

CALCINED FIRE BRICK, 

OF EVERY SIZE AND SHAPE, 

IN-WALLS, BOSH AND HEARTH BRICK FOR FURNACES, 

AND EVERY VARIETY OF 

Tiles for Stoves, Grates, Boilers, Gas and Coal Oil Worlcs. 
ALSO, FINE GROUND FIRE CLAY. 

MANUFACTURER OF 



Buggies and Light "W^agons, 

PORTSMOUTH, OHIO. 






AND DEALER IN 



Gents' Furnishing Goods, 

lOO "W^est Second Street, 



ADVERTISEMENTS. VSt 



GEORGE DAVIS & CO 

Manufacturers and Dealers in 

Flour, FeeJ, Lime, Cement, Ei, 

Second Street, tetween Market and Court, 

M. F. TIMMONDS. S. D. TIMMONSS- 



S..;"^« 



"Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Groceries and Prodii 

Crackers, Bread and Boat Stores, 

FRONT STREET, OPPOSITE WHARFBOAT, 

I'or'tsiTioi-xtli^ O- 

Planing Mill and Lumber ITax^, 






•DEALERS IN- 



I^ine audi I>omestic T^iin[il>er', 

Shingles, Pine and Poplar Flooring. 

Will Fiirnisli Doors, Sash and Blinds on Short NMiccs. 

©©trcteir of NltetPn amdl Washlctg t©!it Streets, 



178 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



R. M. LLOYD, 

Extensive Retail Dealer at 

(IN) - 



TB a^ 



Keeps the largest stock in the city, and sells at 

603 Chillicotlie Street, 

TWO DOORS NORTH OF SIXTH, 

PORTSI^XOXJTH, O. 



m:. s. fixley- 



STORE, 



Froprietoi". 



Pure Drugs anJ Pateit leflicines, 

^7'us/ieSy Combs y ^erftmierjy, 

And J^ine Toilet Articles, 

Of the best manufacture, well selected. 
PRESCRIPTIONS CAREFULLY COMPOUNDED. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 179 



ST. JAMES HOTEL, 

4tli St., Cincinnati, O. 



J. J. McGRATH - - - Proprietor. 



Remodeled, Refurnished, Enlarged, 

E.B. LODWICK. A. H. STEIN. C.S.GREEN. 

Walnut Street House, 

Uast Side of Walnut St., het. 6th and 7th Sts., 



LODWICK, STEm & CO. - - Proprietors. 



Having just taken possession of this old established House, 
the Proprietors have made thorough repairs and general improve- 
ments. Good rooms and well furnished will be provided their 
guests, and a table unsurpassed in the city. 

We extend a special invitation to our Portsmouth and up-river 
frieods, and invite them to stop with us. 



180 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



1 



Corner of Sixth and Walnut Streets, 

ciisrciisrisrA^Ti, ohio 



Z Pride myself in providing for 
my guests the 

BEST LIVING, CLEANEST HOUSE? 

And 

M; ore Civility 

For Less l^oney than any other 
House in the City. 



003XE: .A.1VJ> SEE ]y[:E! 

!F*j:*oprietoi:'. 



CONTENTS. 181 



CODSTTEIsrTS. 



SOUP. PAGE. 

General Directions. ..Corn. ..Potato. ..Beef... Oyster.. .Okra - Vegetable 
...Riee...Macaroni... White. ..Turkey. ..Mutton. ..Bean. ..Brunswick... 9. ..13 

FISH. 

General Directions. ..Boiled Sea Fish... Pried Shad. ..Mackerel. ..Hali- 
but. ..Cod Fish. ..Fried Fish. ...Pickled Salmon. ..FriedBass... Boiled... 
Broiled Shad, Fresh. ..Boiled Shad, Salt. ..Fried Cat Fish. ..Salt Cod 
Fish.-.Eried Frogs 13. ..16 

SAUCES FOR FISH. 

For Tripe, Herring and Lobsters. ..Drawn Butter. ..Egg 17 

OYSTERS. 

Pie...Escaloped... Pickled. ..Fried 2. IS...] 9 

MEATS. 

General Directions. ..Head Cheese. ..Boiled Ham. ..Fried Ham and 
Eggs. ..Sausages. ..Lard. ..Pork and Beans. ..Cold Beef.. .Dried Beef... 
Corn Beef.. ..Beef Tongue Salad. ..Spiced Beef.. .Steak. ..Meat Cakes... 
Fried Liver. ..Roasted Lamb. ..Lamb Chops. ..Broiled Lamb Steak... 
Lamb Cutlets ...Boiled Leg of Mutton. ..Veal Loaf 2. ..Veal Pie... 
Cream Omelet. ..Delicate Omelet. ..Omelet. ..Ham Omelet. ..But- 
tered Eggs... Poached Eggs...StuflFed Eggs. ..Boiled Eggs. ..Fried 
Eggs 20. ..29 

SAUCE. 

Onion...Tomato... Celery. ..Mustard 29. ..30 



182 CONTENTS. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

General Directions. ..Boiled Chicken Pot Pie. ..Chicken Pie. ..Pie Crust 
...Roast Duck or Goose. ..Roast Turkey 2. ..Prepared Turkey for 
Cooking. ..Roast Pheasant. ..Roast Quail. ..Jellied Chicken. ..Roast 
Fowl. ..Roast Partridge 30. ..33. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Chicken Salad 5 34._35- 

VEGETABLES. 

General Directions. ..Baked Egg Plant. ..Fried Egg Plant. ..Salsify 
Dressed as Oysters. ..Young Onions Stewed... Parsnips. ..Aspargus... 
Stewed Onions. ..Macaroni. ..Cold slaw H... Cabbage Salad. ..Delicious 
Slaw. ..Fried Rice. ..Preserving Corn. ..Fried Corn. ..Baked Tomatoes 
2. ..Fried Tomatoes. ..Canned Tomatoes and Corn. ..Baked Corn... 
Stewed Corn. ..Green Corn Pudding. ..Corn Oysters, ..Corn Pudding 
...Browned Potatoes with Meat. ..Mashed Potatoes 2. ..Green Peas 3 
...Baked Potatoes. ..Cooked Beans. ..Saratoga Potatoes. ..Fried Pota- 
toes 2 35...43; 

YEAST. 

Rising. ..Yeast 3 44 

BREAD. 

Bread. ..Rolls. ..Soft Raised Rolls... Tea Cake. ..Milk Toast. ..Pocket 
Books. ..Milk Rising Bread. ..New England Mixed Bread... Bread 
Gems. ..Rusk. ..To Make Bread...Hot Cross Buns 45. ..48. 

BISCUITS. 

Baking Powder. ..Mush. ..Short. ..Bath. ..Maryland. ..Short Cake for 

Fruit. ..Soda. ..Tea 48...4'9i 

CORN BATTER CAKES. 

Corn Johnny Cake. ..Rice Pone. ..Batter Cakes. ..Johnny Cakes. ..Corn 

Bread 3. ..Virginia Corn Bread. ..Sweet Corn Bread 50...51 

BROWN BREAD. 

Rye. ..Boston Brown. ..Brown 2... Boston. ..Graham 2. ..Brown Bread 

Cakes. ..Steamed Boston Bread 52™53 

MUFFINS, ETC. 

Sally Lunn... German Puffs 2. .. Pop-Overs. ..Puffets... Snow Flakes... 

Sutherland Muffins. ..Muffins 4. ..Rye or Graham Muffins 54.-5^ 



CONTENTS. 183 



FRITTERS. 

Batter Cakes. ..Waffles. ..Bread Pan Cakes. ..Fritters. ..Alice's AVaffles... 56. ..57 

PIES. 

Pastry. ..Minced Meat. ..Mince. ..Mock Mince. ..Temperance Mince... 
Pumpkin 2. ..Flour. ..Peach Cobblers. ..Custard. ..Cheese Cake. ..Sand 
Tarts. ..Dedham Cream... Puff Paste... Pie-Plan t...Cocoanut... Ken- 
tucky. ..Pastry. ..Lemon 0... Lemon Pufi's... Lemon Cheese Cake... 
Cream Pies 3 57... 64 

PUDDINGS. 

Tapioca 2... Lemon Sauce... Soufle — Cottage... Orange... Taylor... Pud- 
ding. ..Jelly... Snow... Citron... Sunderland. ..Huntington... Custard... 
Corn Starch. ..Suet. ..Lemon Butter. ..Plum. ..Revere House. ..Dandy 
.. .Fig. ..Delmonico... Sweet Potato. ..Kiss. ..Sauce for Pudding 2... 
Pudding. ..Dried Cherry. ..Plum. ..Bread Plum. ..Queen's Bread... 
Transparent. ..Baked Indian 2. ..Bread and Butter. ..Suet. ..Cracker.... 
Starch. ..Steam. ..Apple. ..Cream Batter. ..Poor Man's 2. ..Apple Dump- 
lings. ..Cracker Dessert. ..Apple, Currant or Damson. ..Cocoanut 
Cnstard... Tapioca Custard. ..Baked Custard 2. ..Chocolate Cream 
Custard... Apple Custard. ..Flummery. ..Cocoanut Blanc Mange.., 
Charlotte Russe2...Apple Float 2. ..Float 65. ..78 

SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 

Cream. ..Cold. ..Elegant Pudding 79 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

Whipped Cream. ..Gelatine. ..Lemon Cream. ..Raspberry Cream... 
Spanish Cream.. Ice Cream. ..Philadelphia Ice Cream. ..Bavarian 
Cream. ..Italian Cream 2. ..Spanish Cream. ..Cream Charlotte... 
Lemon Jelly. ..Cocoanut Cream. ..Pie Plant Jelly. ..Quince Jelly... 
Crab Apple Jelly. ..Spiced Peaches... Spiced Tomatoes. ..Spiced Cur- 
rants ... Cranberry Sauce ... Apple Sauce ... Ambrosia ... Sugared 
Oranges. ..Stewed Pears. ..Stewed Prunes. ..Apple Butter. ..Tomato 
Butter. ..Stewed Apples, whole. ..Orange Marmalade. ..Currant, 
Strawberry or Raspberry Jam. ..Apple Butter. ..Quince Butter... 
Raspberry Jam... Tomato Honey 80.. .87 

PRESERVES. 

General Directions. ..Peach. ..Tomatoes ... WatermelGn... Pears. ..Citron 

...Orange and Lemon. ..Cherries. ..Strawberries 88... 90 



IM CONTENTS. 



PICKLES. 0, 

X(S&w_J>ams9n... Peach ... Pickles. ..Piccalilli. ..Pickled Currants... 
Martino... Plums 2... Green Tomato... Onion... Cucumber.. .Spanish... 
(fih'saa, Walnut. ..Green. ..Stuffing for Mangoes 91... 96 

CHOW-CHOW. 

<aa*w-«hsw 3 ■. 96. ..97 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

S^*^ Tinegar... Pepper Sauce 97 

CATSUP. 

UBat3.iee?4„.Cucumber... Gooseberry. ..Chilton Sauce.,. Walnut 98. ..100 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND TEA. 

-Sku.„&Qwn Coffee. ..Coffee. ..Chocolate 100. ..101 

CAKES. 



directions. ..Citron 2. ..Fruit 7. ..Black. ..White Fruit. .. Meas- 
■ars!Bl£ick... Black Fruit. ..Pound.. ..Delicate 3. ..French Loaf 2...Co- 
«jfcflssait 6. ..Boiled Sponge. ..White Sponge. ..Berwick Sponge... 
a^*sig,e 2. ..Ice Water Sponge. ..White Sifonge...01d Virginia 
Bjpoage^White Mountain 2. ..Orange. ..Starch 2. ..Plain Mountain... 
daia Starch. ..Cup 3. ..Lemon Jelly 4. ..Lemon Cake. ..Lemon Jelly 
tJEuc *UaJ£.e... Silver. ..White 2. ..Yellow. ..Gold. ..Spice 3. ..Almond 2... 
ISSwnsslate 3. ..Cream 2. ..Custard. ..Ginger Bread. ..Corn Bread. ..Soft 
ffiiiiEgss Bread. ..Soft Ginger Cake 2. ..Mark Ginger Cake... Dough- 
Biil;s .J ... Crullers 2 ... Jumbles ... Quaker. ..Cookies 2. ..Molasses 
Cu^k?. 101. ..118 

MISCELLANEOUS CAKES. 

feiiiSfe„.¥anilla... Almond Macaroons. ..Marble.. .Bread. ..Split... Nut 
_...lt«J^et... Thanksgiving... Jumbles... Ginger Snaps 3... Webster.. . Co- 
«eKai!itDrops...Hickory Nut 2.. .Blackberry. ..Madison... Coffee... Deli- 
aiiME.-.Kisses... Queen's. ..Currant Loaf ... Dried Apple. ..Lincoln... 
Cdsij.„J?ederal...Munn...Clove...A Good Suggestion 119. ..124 

CANDY. 

Scotch 2. ..Chocolate Caramels 3. ..Sugar... Walnut. ..Home Made 

...Cocoanut Drops. ..Everton Taffy...... , 125. ..127 



(•ONTKN r- 



185 



REMP]DIES AND FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

(ieiu-ral Reniiirks...To Cure Ague... For Cough. ..Lock-jaw. ..Boils... 
Night Sweats. ..Bowel Coini)laints...For Sore Breast 2. ..Cough 
Syrup. ..Cure for Cough. ..Cough Mixture. ..Cure for Dropsy. ..A CoUl 
...Reaiedy for Croup... Diarrhwa.. .Cure for Headache. ..Dried Flour 
for Feeding Children. ..Tea Leaves for Burns. ..Cure for Neural- 
gia. ..Sure Cure f'-r Felon. ..Herb Teas. ..Corn Meal Gruel. ..Beef 
Te«...Toa.st Water... Vinegar Whey... Mulled Egg. ..Cream Nectar... 
Chicken Broth. ..Ras])berry Shrub. ..Drink for Sick. ..Rice Jelly... 
Blackberry Cordial. ..Sago Gruel ...Oyster Toast. ..Beef Tea. ..Corn 
Meal Gruel... Egg and Milk. ..Oat Meal (Truel...Pap of Boiled 
Flour. ..Sherbet. ..Smith's Cough Powder. ..Cure for Felon. ..Plaster 
for Gathered Breast. ..To Avoid a Cold... Anti-Cholera Mixture... For 
Frozen Flesh. ..Potato Poultice. ..Cure for Dyspepsia, ..For Corns... 
To Prevent Wounds from Mortifying. ..Cure for Wa<p Stings. ..Hop 
Poultice. ..Mustard Plaster. ..Salve. ..To Cure a Wen. ..To Cure Dip- 
theria...To Prevent Flies Injuring Picture Frames. ..To Cure White 
Swelling on the Knee... To Prevent a Felon. ..Simple Remedy for 
Rheumatism. ..Cure for Strain. ..Rock Candy Cough Mi,\ture...A 
Speedy Remedy for Croup... Toothache Remedy.. .A Cure for 
Phthisic and Asthma. ..Cure for Scurvy or Canker Sore Mouth... 
Cure for Hoarseness 125. ..139 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Hard Soap...E.xcellent Hair Wash. ..To take out Grease. ..A Cleaning 
Polish for Furniture. ..To Restore Gilt Frames. ..Cold Water Soap... 
To Clean Silver. ..For Disobedient Children. ..To Destroy Flies.. To 
Clean Carpets 2... Washing Fluid. ..Death to Insects. ..To Remove 
Water Stains from Black Crape... Death to Bedbugs. ..To set the col- 
ors of Calicoes. ..Camphor Ice. ..To Clean White Paint. ...To Clean 
Brass Stair Rods.. ..To Remove Pimples.. ..Soft Soap. ...To Clean 
Straw Matting. ...Salve for Chapped Lips. etc.... To Polish Furni- 
ture.. ..To remove Odor To remove Rust from Steel... .To take 

Grease out of Silks... To E.xterminate Roaches.. ..Tooth Powder.... 
Pearl Drops for the Skin ..To destroy Flies. ...Raspberry Vinegar 2.... 
To Preserve Potatoes till Spring. ...To make an Old Fowl Tender.... 
Fine Cologne Water.. ..Lemon Ice... .Ice (countQrfeit pure) Cream.... 
Cottage Cheese. ..How to Keep Meat.. ..To Sweeten Casks.. ..To Ex- 
tinguish a Fire in a Chimney. ...To clean Mirrors. ...Scent Bags.. ..To 
Purity Glass Vessels. ...Rose Hair Oil.. ..Furniture Polish. ..Poisons, 
and their Antidotes l;i!)....16(l 

THE YOUNG LADY'S TOILETTE 150. ..151 







0" zf^M^- 
o. 






cf.^;^'°',% oo^^ri'-S ^^^-k'J'^S' 

6 Q. 






Ho^ 







s/-, 












^ 






'-':.f>>' 















Q-, 




0' 

95, "'..^^ A^ 



^^J^o^ 



^A 0^ 



-^°- .N^ 


















rP' ^ 






vAv 



^^M& 



Mi 






"^.^^^■ 












v'^ 



rO 









^c^ :^/^S}\': "^o^ 












^^^ °^ 



,^^o^ 















c't' -^. 



o^#' '^;^^;>^^^/^ ^^'»:^^^^/^ ^^'^::^f^^^/ 



v^ 






^6< ;/vv'n "^c^ 






'--\N^\v«.,%;--^ v^^^»-.V'"'"v^^^^^".%;'- 



V ^ <3 Ca ■ » ■ *6 V r (53_ 







::s^ J 









"x ^' - ^v.w I :_ 



%:\:^ ^0^ :, 









. "^. 



^ z 



\..# 



•- %. .^^ :•■ 






- .<:.^ -^ 



cS ^^ 






-*.r^'"'^ V;^;^,.*^;^% v^^^i^.* ^ ^ %,^5P.\,;?:^ 









•r 






Q, '"/ 



|V%•<<^'-'>K'^'° '^■■^ 
























a^^^ 



cy . 



v.. >■ ^. , ■) 



. ^ 









^d^ ^/SA; •^d* 



, * oV 



