Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




60007681 6Y 




4 



rrr 



THE 



CONTINENTAL FISH COOK; 



OB, 



A FEW HINTS ON MAIGRE DINNERS, 

ETC. 



BY 



M. J. N. DE FEEDEKIC. 



WITH %l 




ADDITIONS. 



E. WASHBOURNE, 
18 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. 

1883. 



r. 



% 



18 JUL83 



PREFACE. 



The Writer of this book is a foreign lady^ 
resident in England for some years^ bat 
wlio has lived in, and travelled through, 
many countries, where, owing to climate 
and other reasons, Fish and Maigre Dinners 
and Meals are of paramount importanoe, 
and where an excellent variety of dishes is 
provided, adapted to the requirements of 
lighter food. And as some of her friends in 
England have solicited her, for some time 
past, to write down a few recipes such as 
she has seen used in other countries, and 
different from those usual in England, she 
accordingly presents this little work to her 
many !E]nglish friends, trusting that her 
efforts will prove acceptable to them, as well 
as to the public in general; and she coil 

V— ^ 



iv PREFACE. 

assure them that if^ from her book, they 
cull a few hints for providing a diversified 
and economical dinner, she will have been 
amply rewarded for the time and labour 
spent in arranging all the information con- 
tained in these pages, and which she offers 
in grateful remembrance of the warm 
hospitality and welcome which she, as a 
foreigner^ has always met with during her 
long residence on English soil. 



THE 

CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 

1. — LENTIL POTAGB. 

In two quarts of water boil half a pint of 
lentils^ with one onion^ a head of garlic^ one 
shallot^ a sprig of parsley^ one bay leaf, 
three cloyes, a teacupful of salad oil, or 
three ounces of butter, and some pepper — 
for two hours; then add three ounces of 
rice, and one pound of spinach, scalded 
and chopped, and let all boil together for 
two more hours, or until thoroughly cooked, 
stirring it frequently, as this potage is 
served thick, and easily burns if not care- 
fully stirred. Salt should not be ^^^^ 




80007681 8Y 





8 THE OOKTINEKTAL FISH COOK. 

grated cheese. This sonp should remain 
thick. 

6. — BABCELONA^ VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cat a Sayoy cabbage into small pieces 
and boil it in two pints of water ; put some 
small sippets of toasted bread into a tureeui 
and pour the cabbage and water over the 
bread; add two tablespoonfuls of oil^ or 
two ounces of butter^ and a little yinegar^ 
pepper^ and salt. Stir it well, and serve. 



7. — BEBAD SOUP. 

Take one pound of best wheaten bread 
sliced fine, three ounces of butter, a little 
mint, pepper, and salt to taste, and boil in 
a pint and a half of water for one hour; 
let it stand covered a few minutes, then 
mix three eggs beaten up into the soup, 
and serve— care being taken never to put 
the saucepan on the fire after the eggs are 
mixed in, as they might curdle. Pour 
it into a tureen, and serve with grated 
cbeeae. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 9 

8* — ^AEn)THEB BBEAD SOUP. 

Toast two rounds of bread, cut into 
square pieces^ and place in a tureen; break 
over it two raw eggs, add two ounces of 
butter, some powdered dried mint, and a 
little salt j pour over all sufficient boiling 
water to soak the bi^ead and remain rather 
thick; stir it quickly to mix the eggs, and 
coyer for five minutes, and send up. This 
soup is very nice, and quickly made, as it 
does not require cooking. 

9. — cod's hjead and ricb. 
Take half a cod's head and shoulders, 
and put in a saucepan with one quart of 
water to boil for fifteen minutes; fry, in 
four ounces of butter, one onion and two 
tomatoes, sliced, some chopped parsley, 
pepper, salt, and two cloves ; when nicely 
fried, put it all into the saucepan, with the 
fish; add half a pound of rice, and boil until 
it is all well cooked ; let it stand away from 
the fire for ten minutes, and serve up. 

10. — PRAWN SOUP. 

Take one pound of bread, ^l\c»^dfei^^^issA. 
place in layers in a Ble^-ip«ii \ ^ >^5^ Shss?^^ 



10 THE CONTINENTAL MSH COOK. 

ounces of butter^ two Spanish onions^ one or 
two tomatoes cut small^ one shallot, and a 
little parsley chopped finely; when all is 
nicely browned, lay it all over the bread 
with a little pepper, salt, and two cloves ; 
pick two dozen prawns, and place them on 
the bread; pound the refuse in a mortar 
with a little water, strain through a sieve, 
and pour it over all, adding more water 
if required, as it should have a quart 
altogether; boil gently for three-quarters of 
an hour; let it stand 'ten minutes away 
from the fire, and serve. This soup must 
not be stirred with a spoon, as the bread 
shouldnot be displaced or broken, and should 
remain thick and savoury. 

11. — EEL SOUP. 

In three ounces of butter fry three large 
tomatoes, six spring onions, and some parsley 
cut up into small pieces, and stir in the pan 
until the tomatoes are melted into a sauce, 
and all has taken a light brown colour; add 
one pound of eels cut up into small pieces, 
and stir them in the pan wit\x V^v^ \iOT(i^\iQ^^ 



POTAOES iLND SOUPS. 11 

and onions for a few minutes. In a stew-pan 
lay one pound of thinly-sliced breads and 
throw over it the contents of the frying- 
pan ; add pepper^ salt> and cayenne to taste^ 
one quart of water^ and boil for one hour. 
Serve in a tureen^ carefully, so as not to 
break up the eels or bread. Oysters, 
mussels, or any kind of fish, may be sub- 
stituted in making this soup. 

12. — FISH SOUP. 

Take the head and bones from soles which 
have been filleted, and make the following 
excellent soup: boil them gently for two 
hours in a pint and a half of water, with a 
little salt, and strain; brown, in three ounces 
of butter, a sKced onion, a bunch of parsley, 
a few shreds of saffron, and a very little 
flour ; add the liquor from the fish, and turn 
all into an iron saucepan, and put it on the 
fire j when it begins to boil, mix by degrees 
into it two tablespoonfuls of semolina ; let it 
boil for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 



! 



12 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 



FISH. 
13. — BOILED SALMON. 

The way to boil salmon being generally 
known, it will be unnecessary to describe 
it; the following recipe will, however, be 
found useful for dressing cold boiled sal- 
mon: — 

14.— MCKLBD SALMON— SPANISH WAY. 

Take the remains of boiled salmon, re- 
move carefully all the bones, and divide it 
into nice pieces ; lay them in a deep dish. 
Chop finely a good bunch of parsley, some 
capers^ and two hard-boiled eggs ; well mix 
this in a basin with a little mustard, pepper, 
salt, oil, and vinegar, and pour it all over 
the salmon; a few chopped spring onions 
or half a Spanish onion added is a great 
improvement where onions are not objected 
to; garnish with sliced cucumber. Pish 
pickled in this way will keep good a week 
or even longer. 



FISH. 13 

15. — ^BAEBD SALMON. 

Place in a clean baking- dish a small sal- 
ion of abont two or three pounds weight, 
nd line the dish with thin rounds of 
Ipanish onions; spread over the fish and 
nions breadcrumbs, a good quantity of 
hopped parsley, thymci pepper, and salt, 
lixed all together, and pour over all a quar- 
3r of a pound of hot butter or oil^ half a 
tint of water, and some lemon juice ; bake 
1 a brisk oven and serve in the same dish. 

16. — FRIID SALMON — WITH TOMATOES. 

Pry in oil, lard, or dripping, two pounds 
f sliced salmon, and in the &>t remaining 
a the frying-pan brown three or four large 
omatoes cut in small pieces, stirring with 

spoon until they are melted; pour the 
ontents of the frying-pan into a wire sieve 
nd rub through; add pepper and salt; 
rarm this up and pour the sauce nicely 
ver the fried salmon. Any kind of fried 
sh is nice dressed in this way. 

17. — RED MULLETS — BROILED. 

Take Bome red mulleta, Temo^^ ^'wt^^^Ssijj 
U the liverB, and put tToieai ^ VxA^ ^"^^ ^ 



14 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

the red mullets ; cover each fish with bread- 
crnmbs^ pepper, and salt^ and broil on a 
gridiron over a very clear fire, wetting them 
frequently with a brush dipped in hot 
butter until the mullets are thoroughly 
done, when the livers are taken out and 
rubbed on a plate or small basin with a 
spoon, adding some hot melted butter until 
it becomes a thick sauce ; then add the well- 
whipped yolks of two eggs, pepper, salt, 
and mustard to taste, care being taken to 
hold the plate or basin before the fire all 
the time, that the sauce may keep hot, as 
it must not be boiled or put in a saucepan ; 
pour the sauce on a dish, and place the red 
mullets over the sauce, and garnish with 
slices of lemon or beetroot. This is the 
best and most delicious way of dressing red 
mullets, and fit for any recherche dinner. 

18.— BED MULLETS — BAKED. 

Place six red mullets on a flat dish or 

baking tin, and cover them with bread- 

crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 

three ounces of butter, and a squeeze of 

lemon J sprinkle a few Bpooni\x\a oi ^^\a^ 



FISH. 15 

orer the fish, and bake in a quick oven to 
a nice brown coloar. 

19. — EBD MULLETp — EN PAPILLOTBS. 

This recipe hardly requires explanation^ 
as it is BO well known^ being found in most 
cookery books^ but being a very nice way 
of dressing mullets, it may as well be in- 
cluded. Dip each fish in eggs and bread- 
cmmbSj seasoned with pepper and salt^ and 
wrap each mullet in a sheet of well-but- 
tered paper^ and broil on a gridiron over a 
clear fire. 

20. — BED MULLETS— WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Same as the recipe for salmon (16) ; but 
when fresh tomatoes are not in season, the 
mullets may be served with tomato sauce, 
such as i^ sold in bottles at the Italian 
warehouses. 

21. — PICKLED BED MULLETS. 

Pry the mullets in butter, lard, or oil 
(the latter preferred), to a nice cris^ brown. ; 
lay the fried fish in a xa^er d^i^"^ ^£^^^s&^ 



16 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

in the fat tliat remainB in the frying-pan 
brown two cloves of garlic, add two bay 
leaves, six peppercorns, pepper and salt, 
four cloves, and a winoglassf ul of vinegar ; 
boil for three minutes, and pour over the 
fish, garnished with rounds or slices of 
lemon. This is an excellent supper dish, 
as it is equally nice cold or hot. The above 
proportion of spices, etc., serves for three 
or four mullets. This recipe can be applied 
to almost any kind of fish. 

22. — SOLES — ANDALUSIAN WAY. 

Take two middle-sized soles and fry them 
of a light brown colour — either in butter 
or oil — and in the fat remaining in the fry- 
ing-pan after the soles have been friqd, 
brown two onions finely sliced, a bunch of 
parsley, two cloves of garlic or two shallots, 
and a thick slice of bread without crust ; 
when all has been fried, put everything, 
with the exception of the fish, into a mortar 
with two pounded cloves, pepper and salt, 
and pound well into a fine pulp; add 
one pint of water, and rub it all through a 
fn're fiieve, putting it all into t\vo tc^m^- 



FISH. 17 

pan again^ and put your fried soles into the 
sauce^ letting all boil together for about ten 
minutes^ until the sauce is thick enough to 
serve. 

23. — SOLES — IN A PLAINER WAY. 

Make some butter sauce in the usual 
way with a quarter of a pound of good 
butter^ flour^ pepper and salt^andjast suffi- 
cient water to make a rather thick sauce, 
stir and boil for a minute or two; then 
place in an oval stew-pan a large sole, and 
pour the butter sauce over it and boil for 
about half an hour, or until the sole is well 
cooked — there should be sufficient sauce to 
cover the sole, but no more — divide in four 
pieces a thin round of dry toast and lay it 
on a hot flat dish, and place the sole on the 
bread, pouring the sauce over all ; arrange 
some boiled turnips around the fish and 
serve. 

24. — SAJBtfiD SOLES. 

Mix together some breadcrumbs, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt ; sprinkle about a 
handful o£ this on a fla\i 3aaV,\^"^ \i^^ ^^t;K^ 

1 



18 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

oysters around the dish^ and place a good- 
sized sole in the centre^ and smother all 
well with the mixed breadcrumbs ; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter^ and pour it 
over with the juice of half a lemon^ a little 
water^ and all the liquor from the oysters ; 
bake in a quick oven to a light brown, until 
it remains nearly dry. The fish must not 
be removed from the dish, but sent to table 
on the same dish on which the sole has been 
baked. 

25. — SOLES — A LA 110SSB. 

Take the fillets of two or three large 
soles^ and cut them in two^ lengthways; 
roll up each piece and tie with a bit of 
thread, and boil carefully in a little water; 
make a rich butter sauce with butter^ a 
little milk^ flour^ pepper and salt^ and some 
of the liquor in which the soles were boiled ; 
boil this sauce well for about five minutes ; 
remove from the fire, and mix into it, just 
before serving, the yolks of three eggs 
well whipped, with a little cream, and the 
juice of half a lemon ; place the fillets of 
sole on a, hot dishj and pour t\i© ^waa^ ^"h^x 



FISH. 19 

them; garnish with bits of boiled caali- 
flower. % 

26. — STOTPBD SALMON BREAM. 

Stuff a salmon bream with the following 
ingredients : breadcrumbs^ a little butter^ 
chopped parsley, and a very little onion, 
some thyme, pepper, and salt, but not egg ; 
lay the fish on a dish, put thinly sliced 
potatoes and onions around the fish; spread 
breadcrumbs, with chopped parsley, over 
all, about a quarter of a pound of butter in 
bits, sprinkle a little water to moisten the 
fish, and bake in a brisk oven ; serve in the 
same dish. 

27. — BEOILED SALMON BREAM. 

Stuff your fish as in the preceding re- 
cipe, and broil it carefully on the gridiron, 
basting it frequently with a brush dipped 
in oil or hot butter; when thoroughly 
cooked put it on a hot dish, and spread 
finely chopped onion, parsley, and a few 
capers ; mix some oil and vinegar, or lemon 
juice, and pour it over alL Tha fe\kss^W^ 
saace may be used malQaSi^io^ ^ Oas^s^^^^ 



20 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

preferred : scald and peel some tomatoes^ 
rub them with some butter over the fire 
until they dissolve into a sauce, add a little 
pepper and salt ; pour into a dish, and place 
the fish on it. When tomatoes are not in 
season, tomato sauce, with a little butter 
and water added, and boiled for five minutes, 
is a good substitute. 

28. — STEWED SALMON BREAM. 

Fry a good slice of bread, without crust, 
some parsley, a tablespoonf ul of capers in a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and pound 
all in a mortar; mix into this a teaspoonful 
of anchovy sauce, a wineglassful of wine, 
and a pint ol water ; lay the salmon bream 
in a long stew-pan, pour the contents of 
the mortar over it, and stew gently for 
about half an hour, until the fish is quite 
done. 

29. — GURNETS. 

Gurnets should be dressed in the same 
way as salmon bream, and are equally good, 
making rich and excellent diaVioa* 



FISH. 21 

30. — EELS — WITH MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash some potatoes with butter, milk, 
pepper and salt, and make a High wall 
round a flat dish, leaving the centre free ; 
bake or brown it lightly. Stew two eels, 
cut up in pieces, in some parsley sauce, 
with a little cayenne pepper, and salt ; mix 
the yolk of one egg into the sauce just be- 
fore serving, and very carefully serve the 
stew in the centre of the dish, with the 
mashed potatoes. 

31. — EELS WITH WALNUT SAUCE. 

In two ounces of butter, brown one 
shallot and a slice of bread ; pound all in 
a mortar with three pickled walnuts, two 
cloves, pepper and salt ; mix half a pint of 
water, and rub through a cullender into a 
stew-pan with two pounds of eels; stew 
gently until cooked, and serve very hot. 

32. — STEWED EELS. 

Cut two pounds of eels in pieces and lay 
them in a stew-pan; in three ounces of 
butter, fry half a Spanish onion »lvc^i^cj^<^ ^ 
one Bballot, a sprig oi pat Ae^ > ^2cA. ^ \5^^<5^- 



22 THE CONTINEKTAL FISH COOK. 

spoonful of flonr^ to a light brown colour; 
mix into this one wineglassfol of port 
or Catalan wine, and Half a pint of water; 
pour all into the stew-pan with the eels ; 
add a bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt, 
and stew gently nntil the fish is well cooked 
— ^keeping the stew-pan closely covered — 
and serve. 

33. — FBioAssis or bels. 
In a stew-pan lay two ponnda of eels, a 
slice of onion, half a pint of green peas, two 
cloves, pepper, and salt, one tablespoonf al of 
flour, and half a pint of water, and boil gently 
until thoroughly cooked. Before dishing^ 
and after removing the stew-pan from the 
fire, mix into the sauce a liaison of two yolks 
of eggs, some cream, and a little lemon 
juice, and serve with sippets of fried bread. 

34. — EELS — WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

This recipe is the same as the one headed 
'' Fried Salmon with Tomatoes " (16). 

35. — PICKLED EELS. 

Cut up some eels in pieces two inches 
Jongy and lay them in a deep diaAi •, m «i 



FISH. 23 

mortar, pound one clove of garlic, pepper,, 
salt, and a teaspoonf ol of capsicum pepper 
some thyme, adding, when well pounded, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and one of 
water, and pour all this over the fish ; let 
it stand for two hours, then wipe the fish 
dry in a cloth, flour, and fry them in hot 
lard or butter ; serve with endive or celery 
salad. 

36. — PICKLED SELS — ^ANOTHER WAT. 

Proceed the same as for pickled red mul- 
lets (2-1). 

37. — SKATE — \ LA CATALANA. 

Chop finely two shallots, two tablespoon- 
fuls of capers, two anchovies, and a sprig 
of parsley ; put them into a stew-pan with 
a quarter of a pound of butter or salad oil, 
three spoonfuls of boiling water, and one 
of caper vinegar, stir all well over the fire 
until completely mixed ; lay in this sauce 
two pounds of skate, and stew until the 
fish is well cooked. 

38. — SKATE — WITH JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Brown very lightly t»vio XaMVa^^^cys&oSa. ^ 
iJonr in three ounces ol \iwfc\«t> «cA.^skx^Ns^ 



24 THE CONTINENTAL HSH COOK. 

degrees one pint of milk^ pepper^ and salt ; 
pour it into a stew-pan with two pounds of 
skate^ cut in pieces a sprig of parsley, and 
one pound of Jerusalem artichokes, which 
have been previously boiled, but not tho- 
roughly cooked j stew all together until the 
fish and artichokes are quite tender ; serve, 
garnished with slices of fried potatoes, 

39. — SKATE — ^WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Boil for a quarter of an hour two dozen 
mushrooms, keeping them whole ; place on 
a flat dish one pound and a half of * skate, 
and lay the mushrooms around the dish ; 
sprinkle over all four ounces of bread 
crumbs, mixed with a good bunch of well- 
chopped parsley, salt, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, and pour over them a quarter of a 
pound of hot butter, and half a tumblerful 
of water ; bake in a moderately quick oven ; 
serve in the same dish. When mushrooms 
are not in season, oysters may be substi- 
tuted. 

40. — ^TO DRESS SKATE WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Make a rich sauce with a good piece of 
baiter, Sour, and milk, and throYr mlo ifc 



FISH. 25 

some chopped parsley and green peas^ pre- 
viously boiled. Try some pieces of skate 
wifch egg and breadcrumbs, or butter; 
serve up very hot, and pour the sauce over 
it 

41. — STEWED MACKEREL. 

Pound two cloves of garlic with three 
ounces of breadcrumbs, and rub into it 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and one pint 
of water ; add some anchovy sauce, pepper, 
and salt; pour into a stew-pan, and put 
into it four mackerel cut in three pieces 
each j stew gently until quite tender, and 
serve up, bearing in mind that the sauce 
must be of the consistency of cream. 

Skates or eels done in the same way are 
excellent. 

42. — PICKLED MACKEREL. 

Same as pickled red mullets (21). 

43. — PICKLED MACKEREL — ANOTHER WAY. 

Proceed as for pickled aalmoiv \xsl tS^A 
Spaniab wa,j (14). 



26 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 



44— TO DEESS DEY COD OB UNO PISH. 

Dry cod or ling fish is very litfcle known 
in England^ but may be bad in several 
sbops in London, as foreigners and many 
English persons wbo have been abroad 
know well what delicious and excellent 
dinners may be made with the addition of 
this palatable fish. I shall therefore, by 
way of introducing an agreeable variety 
into English fish dinners, proceed to give 
several very good recipes for dressing dry 
codfish. 

In many countries where fresh fish is 
scarce, this fish constitutes the principal 
food of both rich and poor during Lent. 

It must be borne in mind that this fish, in 
whichever way it may be dressed, must as 
a rule be steeped or soaked in lukewarm 
water from the evening previous to the day 
in which it may be required, as otherwise it 
would remain too hard and salt, and unfit 
to be properly cooked; care must also be 
i^Bken in the manner of boiling, which I 
s^alj describe as follows : — 



FISH. 27 

45. — TO BOIL COD OB LING PISH. 

Take two or three pounds of salt fish pre- 
vionslj soaked, scrape and wash itj place in 
the fish kettle with cold water enoagh to 
coverj put right on the fire until it boils up^ 
when place on the side of the grate^ keep- 
ing it hot but not boiling until the fish is 
tender; this process generally takes an hour 
and a quarter, reckoning from the time it is 
first put on the fire ; if the cod is allowed 
to boil hard it becomes tough and indi- 
gestible. Serve with egg-sauce^ or as 
follows: — 

Place the boiled fish on a dish with a cup- 
ful of the fish liquor^ two or three spoonfuls 
of oil and vinegar poured over it; chop 
some parslejj spring onions, capers, and two 
hard-boiled eggs ; spread it all evenly over 
the fish, and serve ; or else make the follow- 
ing sauce, which is very nice for all kinds of 
boiled fish : — 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, rub them in a 
mortar with a teaspoonful of mustard^ mix 
by degrees about half a teacu^ial oi ^<^V^^ 
oilj and a little vinegar to a^^\'^^^^'Q:^>x2^%^ 



28 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

nntil it gets into a creamy state, and the oil 
does not rise; mix in a good handful of well- 
chopped fresh parsley, spring onions, and a 
tablespoonf nl of capers ; adding vinegar to 
taste, a little pepper, and some of the hot 
fish Uqnor, and serve in a sance-tureen. 
This sauce is not boiled, and only sufficient 
liquor should be added to leave the mixing 
the consistency of thin cream or salad dress- 
ing, and for this effect' the eggs must not be 
boiled too hard, and they should be well 
worked up. 

46. — CODFISH PUDDING. 

Soak and boil as above one pound of 
dried salt codfish, the tail part preferred ; 
skin and carefully remove every bone, and 
pound the fish in a mortar to a pulp ; mash 
two pounds of boiled potatoes while hot, 
and put the fish pulp and mashed potatoes 
into a basin, adding a quarter of a pound of 
good butter, four eggs, pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of mustard; well mix all together, 
but do not add salt ; butter a pudding-dish 
BDi place all the mash into it, smoothing it 
evenly with a, knite, making mdeut^Aivoika \»o 



FISH. 29 

form a pattern to taste ; pour over it about 
aa ounce of liot butter, and bake in a good 
quick oven to a deep brown colour ; servo 
with egg sauce. 

47. — PEICASS^B OP CODFISH. 

Fry, in three ounces of butter, to a light 
brown, half an onion, a bunch of parsley, 
a tablespoonful of flour, stirring it all the 
time to prevent its burning; add a little 
pepper, and mix into it half a pint of water; 
pour all into a stew-pan, and lay in it one or 
two pounds of the dried codfish, which must 
have been previously soaked and boiled as 
above ; cut up into square pieces, and let it 
stew together for fifteen minutes; before 
dishing, take the yolks of two eggs beaten 
up with a little lemon juice, and gradually 
mix it into the fricassee, taking care that it 
does not curdle ; and after this liaison has 
been added the fricassee must not be put on 
the fire again, but dished carefully. 

48. — CROQUETES OF CODFISH. 

Take some pieces of previously boiled 
codGsb, cut in small sc^vxate^ ot \qvi'?,>s^^% 



1 



30 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

and dip them in a thick batter made with 
an egg, milk, and flour, and fry in hot lard, 
salad oil, or clarified dripping, but not 
butter; when nicely browned, serve them 
very hot, garnished with fried parsley; salad 
ready dressed is usually served with cro- 
quetes when they are prepared for lun- 
cheon or supper. 



49. — CODFISH — ^WITH CAPSICUMS. 

Fry a slice of bread without crust in 
three ounces of butter, put the bread when 
nicely browned in a morfcar, and in the 
butter that remains in the pan, fry one 
sliced onion, one shallot, and a dessertspoon- 
ful of sweet capsicum pepper, a little black 
pepper, and two cloves ; add half a pint of 
water and put it all into a mortar with the 
fried piece of bread, pounding it all into a 
sauce j add a little more water and pour all 
into a stew-pan with about a pound of cod- 
fish previously soaked, boiled, and cut into 
small square pieces; stew half an hour, 
Tvlien it will he ready to serve% 



FISH. 31 

50. — BROILED CODFISH — FOR BREAKFAST. 

Take one or two pounds of dried codfish 
whicli has been previously soaked but not 
boiled ; wash it well, and dry it in a clean 
cloth; broil it on a gridiron over a very 
clear fire, until of a light brown colour ; put 
it on a hot dish and rub some butter over 
the fish, with the juice of half a lemon; 
shake some black pepper over it and serve. 
Some plain boiled rice, as for curry, with a 
little butter mixed in, should be served with 
the fish. Codfish dressed this way is a 
good substitute for broiled haddock for 
breakfast. 

51. — BAKED CODFISH — EITHER FRESH OR 

SALTED. 

Cut into thin rounds two large onions 
and two or three raw potatoes, sprinkle 
some fine breadcrumbs and chopped parsley 
on a flat dish, place the onions and potatoes 
in alternate slices around the dish, lay the 
codfish in the centre, and well cover all with 
breadcrumbs and parsley; some butter 
made hot and poured o^ex, ^Y^\x^^^i5^ ^ 



32 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

pint of water on the breadcrumbs and 
fisli ; well bake it in a quick oven. If the 
codfish used be fresh, it should be prepared 
raw ; if with dried salt cod, it must have 
been previously soaked and parboiled: 
either fresh or salted cod is equally good 
prepared in this way. 

# 

52. — DRY CODFISH — WITH EICB. 

Put half a pound of dry codfish to soak 
in boiling water for ten minutes ; scrape, 
wash, and dry it in a cloth, then bone and 
shred it in very little bits ; fry, in a little 
salad oil or butter, to a light brown, three 
cloves of garlic or shallots, one or two sliced 
Spanish onions, and a little parsley; then 
add three or four tomatoes, cut up, or some 
tomato sauce, a few shreds of saffron, a 
teaspoonf ul of sweet capsicum pepper ; stir 
it all into a sauce, then add the shredded 
fish, give it a turn or two, then pour it all 
into a stewpan with three-quarters of a 
pound of rice, three pints of water, some 
cloves, mace, and pepper; let it all boil 
^o^etber briskly for twenty-fi.YO minutes ; 



..^IfcM^/i r/M > .KIT 'M9 



remove it from tibi^ ^^ ^ping.tlifii,lid,f9^, 
and let ifc stand fpr .t]e^.|pm^^^.£9l^(tJ;e ri^e 
to swell; serve i(rpileriL;ttIvJigjiUyQn|ard^]^, 
as the rice sliouJ4i reppjiajajdry, and ..^y^jy 
grain separate. Wb^M l^qiled^riceis rejcj^ji^^a, 
either plain, boiled i^f,^ate?!y or in ^^ewB, 
care should be ta^<^u.t^i^jt.it,.boils[.l^rd at 
first, as, otherwise,- jit ]V?f?o^ei^.;^'f t, , watery, 
and unpalatable. .!> ol- '••Y/'iMu 






53. — DRY C0I)FISH»*^STBW11D WIXflfjldMATOEfl. 

Soak and parbttil a piece iif' Codfish, iKrid 
lay it in a stewi-^jifey tlit>Wh^^^ 
onions and tomatoes, either in a little oil or 
butter j add some flddi*, ailidErub it all into a 
sauce, with a pint o£wftii9rr^,ppiy^f|ij^U| into 
the stew-pan with, the, fiftt^jjfajit^tei^efjger, 
cloves, cayenne, qvG^f)^]^^, ^^^ jst^y^ gfjijijy 
for an hour. Wh^p.yi(^f^JSk^ps,^^^^^ 
season, a few spoonful^ q|, .tpq^atp, pap^^e^^s a 
good substitute. ^ ; , ..,,. -^ J,... I. ^^^^^J,^ 

54. — HUQUEdA^'(ANJATlAoiil|uDl8fl)li!nj 

Place in a deep ' biaking' dish albeWiate- 
layers of sliced tbttiil^^; otasyci^^ ^kt^ ^s^^- 



34 THE CONTINENTA.L FISH COOK. 

fish (brill OP plaice will do equally well, but 
not salmon, mackerel, or other red fish), 
until the dish is fuUj cut up a capsicum 
pepper into small bits and place over each 
layer ; pour over all half a teacupf ul of oil, 
or, if preferred, three ounces of butter or 
beef-dfripping> and salt ; cover with thin 
slices of bread and bake in a moderate 
oven until well cooked. (The onions should 
be sliced very fine, otherwise they will not 
be cooked as soon as the rest.) , This dish 
does not require water, as the tomatoes and 
onions yield sufficient moisture. 

55. — FISH BALLS. 

Put in a aiortar the remains of any boiled 
fish, either salted or fresh, and pound to a 
pulp, carefully removing all the bones ; then 
add some breadcrumbs and about two 
ounces of boiled rice, a little marjoram, 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt ; moisten 
it all with one or two eggs according to the 
quantity of fish and ingredients ; with this 
make some moderately sized balls, roll them 
in a little iJour, and brown them in boiling 



FISH. 35 

lard, clarified dripping, or butter; have 
ready, in a little stew-pan, some butter sauce, 
and drop the balls into this sauce while 
boiling, and let them cook for fifteen 
minutes ; make a liaison with the yolks of 
two eggs, a little cream or milk, and a few 
drops of lemon juice, and mix into the sauce 
before serving. 

56. — STUEFED SPKATS. 

Eemove the heads, split open the sprats * 
down to the tip of the tail, and take out 
the middle bone, lay them open on a dish, 
make some stuffing with breadcrumbs, 
chopped parsley, thyme, grated cheese, a 
small quantity of butter rubbed in, pepper 
and salt, and two eggs mixed in ; well spread 
a spoonful of this stuffing thickly over each 
open sprat ; dip them in whipped egg, and 
fry them in butter or boiKng lard to a light 
brown, first on the back, and then on the 
side which has the stuffing, giving them the 
appearance of fritters, or little cakes ; pile 
them on a dish, crowning it all with a 
bunch of fried parsley; garnish the di&K 
with alternate half rounQi^ ol\><i^^^'^^'^'^^^^'^ 



36 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK, 

and lemon, with lifctle sprigs of fresh parsley 
between. This is a very pretty dish for 
luncheons and suppers. 

57. — ANOTHEE WAY OP DRESSING SPEATS. 

Eemove the heads ; boil the sprats in a 
small quantity of water for ten minutes, put 
them in a little pie-dish with the liquor, 
pouring over them a dressing of a little oil, 
pepper, salt, mustard, anchovy sauce, and 
vinegar to taste. 

58. — A LOBSTER STEW. 

Take a live lobster, pierce it with a 
skewer to kill it, and save the blood as ib 
oozes out j cut up the lobster in pieces, and 
place in a stewpan with three pounds of 
finely sliced onions; pound in a mortar 
two pounds of blanched almonds, a piece 
of chocolate, the coral from the inside of 
the lobster, and the blood, which will have 
congealed ; pepper and salt, add a teacup- 
f ul of water, and rub these ingredients well 
together; pour into the pan over the lobster 
^^d stew gently jxntil well cooked. 



OMELETTES. 37 

OMELETTES. 

59. — SPINACH OMELETTE. 

Boil Lalf a pound of spinach^ strain^ 
chop, and fry it with butter for a few mi- 
nutes; beat up six eggs for two minutes, 
and pour them into the pan with the 
spinach, adding pepper and salt;; stir it all 
well, and let it set; then turn the omelette 
on the other side, and brown it lightly, as 
it should remain firm but soft; take a larger 
pan, and fry a few chopped spring onions 
and parsley ; then add a spoonful of flour, 
stir it well, mixing in a pint of milk gradu- 
ally, and let this sauce boil a few minutes; 
then place the omelette in this pan with 
the sauce, boil it a minute, and serve. 

This is a delicious sauce for all kinds of 
omelettes, and very easy to prepare. Should 
the sauce be desired richer, add a little 
cream, with the yolk of an egg mixed into 
it at the time of serving. 

60. — LETTUCE OMELETTE. 

Take two French lettuces, cut away the 
sterns from each leai ttv^ ^\isAa\^\^^^>'^'^"^ 



38 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

np the leaves^ but not the sterns^ as no use 
is made of them, and fry them, untfl well 
cooked and tender, in two ounces of butter; 
add six well-beaten eggs, pepper, and salt, 
and set as above; serve with or without 
sauce. 

61. — ASPARAGUS OMELETTE. 

Boil twenty-four asparagus for ten, 
minutes, chop them finely, fry them with 
butter, a little chopped onion, and parsley, 
pepper, and salt, mix in eight eggs well 
beaten up, and fry them on both sides very 
lightly, and serve. 

62. — ^ARTICHOKE OMELETTE. 

This is considered the best and most 
delicate of all omelettes, if properly made. 
Take three young artichokes before the 
seed has been developed, cut away all tie 
hard outside leaves, and cut the points off 
from the remaining ones ; divide each arti- 
choke in eight pieces, fry them in butter 
slowljr nnbi) f;ender and well cooked; then 
^dd eight eggs beaten up, peppex ^xlOl ^^\» \ 



OMELETTES. 39 

make tlie omelette as usual. Another way 
is to mix the eggs as above^ only stirring it 
all the time without setting it into an 
omelette, but like buttered eggs, which will 
be found equally as nice, and serves for a 
change. 



63. — A COMMON OMELETTE. 

Fry in butter, lard, or dripping, a little 
chopped onion and parsley, beat and mix in 
two, four, or six eggs ; fry the omelette 
quickly on one side only, and roll it up like 
a pancake ; serve without sauce. 



64. — CHEESE OMELETTE. 

Grate two ounces of cheese, double 
Gloucester, Parmesan, or any good cheese. 
Melt it in the pan with a little butter, 
pepper, salt, and mustard; mix into this 
four well-beaten eggs; set very soft, and 
serve very hot. This omelette should be 
made just when it is required, as it becomes 
tough if allowed to at^TiOi. 



40 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK, 

65. — SHRIMP OE OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Fry in butter half a pint of picked 
shrimps^ or two dozen oysters cat up, some 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, then add 
six eggs beaten up, and make the omelette 
the usual way. This omelette should be 
served with ready-dressed salad, or a sauce 
made as for spinach omelette (59). 

66. — LOBSTER OMELETTE. 

Eeserve the best parts of the lobster for a 
salad, and chop up the bits from the feelers 
and claws ; put three ounces of butter in a 
pan, and in it brown the chopped lobster, 
two ounces of breadcrumbs, a little grated 
cheese, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; 
then mix into this eight eggs, and let it set 
into an omelette. 

67. — POTATO OMELETTE — ^WITHOUT EGGS. 

Well mash two pounds of good potatoes, 

well boiled or steamed, with two ounces of 

butter, pepper, and salt ; put the mash in a 

hot frjin^-pan, with some butter, or good 

^^j'pping, laying it smoothly ; iry \m\iv\ ^^\\ 



EGGS. 41 

browned ; turn it on the other side, adding 
a little more butter, or dripping, and fry as 
before ; both sides should be well browned, 
but not burnt or broken; serve with a 
little parsley on the top as a garnish. 

Very rich and delicious omelettes may be 
made with fresh mushrooms, very tender 
broad beans, or borage leaves, frying them 
in the usual way before mixing the eggs. 



EGGS. 

DIFFEREa^T WAYS OF DRESSING. 
68. — EGGS — ^WITH SAUCE. 

Cut in halves, lengthways, six hard-boiled 
eggs, placing them neatly on a dish ; make 
a rich butter sauce in the usual way, adding 
half a pound of finely chopped and boiled 
spinach, mixing it well in the sauce ; boil 
three minutes ; take the sauce o£E the fire, 
and stir into it the yolks of two eggs, well 
whipped with a little cream and lemon- 
juice; pour it quickly into the dish with 
the hard-boiled eggs. This makes a ve^^ 
pretty dish, and very "paY^A^XAa* 



42 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

69.— EGGS — ^WITH CAPBR SAUCE. 

Cut in halves eight hard-boiled eggs^ and 
place them in a heap on a small dish ; pour 
over them some very good butter sauce^ 
with plenty of chopped capers in it, and 
flavoured with pepper, salt, and a pinch of 
cayenne. 

70. — EGGS — ^WITH SPINACH. 

Fry two pounds of boiled spinach with a 
good piece of butter, pepper, and salt ; lay 
them smoothly on a flat dish, fry some sip- 
pits of bread, and garnish the edge of the 
dish ; fry in butter, one by one, eight eggs, 
and place them carefully on the spinach 
without breaking the yolks. 

71. — EGGS — ^WITH TOMATOES. 

Take three large tomatoes, slice them in 
halves, and put a little salt over them ; fry 
them on both sides in butter or oil, always 
preferring oil, as tomatoes take some time 
to fry, and butter browns very quickly, and 
ofteiij if great care is not taken, will yield 
« bitter taste, from the tomatoes \iTo^Ti\si^ 



EQGS. 43 

too quickly; take them from the pan with 
a slice, and lay them on a dish carefally, 
pouring the butter or lard over them ; fry 
in butter or lard some eggs, and place one 
egg upon each half tomato^ and serve. This 
is a delicious way of dressing tomatoes^ 
and care should be taken to choose only 
tomatoes that are firm^ and not in any way 
damaged. 

72. — EGG PISTO (a SPANISH BREAKFAST 

dish). 

Scald two or three tomatoes, peel and cut 
them up, and put them into a frying-pan 
with a good piece of butter, stirring them 
all the time over the fire, until rubbed into 
a sauce; well whip six eggs in a basin, 
with a little pepper and salt; pour them 
into the pan with the tomatoes, and stir 
quickly all the time until the egg is set ; 
turn it out into a dish, and heap it up 
lightly. 

73. — EGGS AND ONIONS. 

Slice finely, and fry 1\^\>l^^ ^ \ax^'^ 
Spanish onion, in t\iTe^ onxtiq.^'^ ^Wsn^Js^^s^n 



44 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

add a spoonful of flour, stir it in with the 
fried onions for a few minutes, then mix 
with this half a pint of milk, and let it 
boil for half an hour ; pour it into a dish, 
and put sixhard-boiled eggs, cut into quar- 
ters, lengthways, around it, and four pieces 
in the centre to form a star or any pattern 
preferred. 

CEOQUETES. 

74. — SALMON CROQUBTES. 

Chop up the remains of cold boiled sal- 
mon, some parsley, capers, and marjoram, 
mixing in some breadcrumbs, pepper, and 
salt j rub in two ounces of butter, and 
moisten all with two eggs; stir it all well, 
and make with this little flat cakes; fry 
them in boiling lard or dripping a light 
brown; serve them on a dish, and garnish 
with alternate rounds of beetroot and 
lemon. 

75. — TURBOT CEOQUETES. 

Croquetes of turbot, or any other de- 
scrjption oi fish, are made in the same way 
as the above. 



CROQUETES. 45 

76. — ITALIAN CROQUETES. 

Chop up a boiled sole, or any kind of 
boiled fish, removing carefully all the bones; 
mix with it some breadcrumbs, finely 
chopped parsley, thyme, or marjoram, pep- 
per, salt, and two eggs. Make some good 
pie-crust with butter or lard; roll it out 
very thin, then place the stuffing upon it in 
little heaps, about the size of a walnut, and 
two inches apart ; fold the paste over the 
stuffing, and cut each portion in squares or 
diamond shape with the pastry- wheel ; fry 
them of a light brown colour in plenty of 
boiling lard or dripping, not butter, and 
serve with salad. 

77. — OYSTER CROQUETES. 

Brown in butter two dozen oysters, roll 
them in breadcrumbs, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and a pinch of marjoram ; dip them 
into whipped eggs, and fry them again in 
boiling lard to a nice colour ; heap up the 
croquetes on a dish, with fried parsley in 
the centre, and garnish with rounds of beet- 
root and hard-boiled, egg^* 



46 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

78. — ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Pick clean some anchovies, removing the 
bones^ and wash them well ; lay them on a 
dish, and sprinkle over them some chopped 
parslfey, onions (spring ones preferred), a 
few capers, and two hard-boiled eggs ; or 
lay each ingredient separately in squares to 
form a pattern ; pour some oil and vinegar 
over all, and serve. This salad keeps good 
a month if bottled in a pickle bottle, and 
more oil and vinegar be added. 

79. — BLOATER SALAD. 

Broil some bloaters, remove the skin, 
heads, and bones, and divide them in pieces. 
Slice some boiled potatoes and cucumber, 
and put them with the bloaters on the same 
dish, pouring oil, vinegar^ pepper, and mus- 
tard, mixed together, over all, and serve. 
This salad should be prepared quickly, as 
it must be sent to table quite hot. 



VEGETABLES. 47 

VEGETABLES. 

80. — STUFFED LETTUCE — A LA BAYONNAISB. 

Parboil two lettuces without cutting 
them j and lay them open on a dish or 
plate, leaf by leaf, without breaking them. 
Make a stuffing with a quarter of a pound 
of breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley, 
onion, marjoram, or thyme, a tablespoonful 
of grated cheese, pepper, and salt ; rub in 
two ounces of butter, and mix all with two 
eggs ; put a little stuffing in the heart of 
the lettuce, and replace the leaves, adding 
a little more stuffing between ; tie them up 
with a string, and stew them with a pint of 
water, a little flour to thicken it, pepper, 
salt, a little mace, and a piece of butler or 
dripping ; dish them on a flat dish without 
cutting them, and into the sauce mix the 
yolks of two eggs whipped with a little 
cream. 

81. — STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Proceed in the same way as the above. 



48 TH£ C05TI5E5TAL FISH COOK. 

82. — STUTFID TEGHABLS KABSOW. 

Make a staffing as beCore. Scoop out aU 
tbe seeds from two or three small T^etmble 
marrows^ and fill them with the stuffing. 
Stew them in a white or brown saoce, well 
seasoned^ adding chopped moahrooms and 
parsley. This will be fonnd an excellent 
dish serred with fried fish. 

83. — BASXD SPAinSH ONIOKSL 

Make some stuffing as aboTe. Scoop 
some good siaed Spanish onions^ and fill 
them with staffing; range the onions in a 
large baking dish; sprinkle a little floar^ 
pepper, and salt OTer them ; add three 
ounces of batter or beef dripping, and half 
fill the dish with water ; bake in a mode- 
rately qaick oven for three boors, basting 
them frequently; serve in a vegetable dish 
with all the gravy. 

84. — FRIED CAKBOTS — BELGIAN WAY. 

Chop up finely five well-boiled carrots ; 
put them in a frying-pan with three ounces 
of butter, a little salt, and plenty of black 



VEGETABLES. 49 

pepper; stir them over a quick fire for ten 
minutes with a spoon^ and serve in a vege- 
table dish^ well heaped up^ with a bunch of 
fried parsley. 

85. — BOILED CAULIPLOWEE — ^WITH SAUCJfi. 

Boil a large cauliflower^ and make the 
following sauce: fry two sliced onions in 
two ounces of butter or dripping, a sprig of 
parsley, and some chopped capers, stirring 
it all until of a light brown colour ; add a 
tablespoonf ul of flour, and brown also ; mix 
half a pint of milk into it, and boil for a 
few minutes. Serve the cauliflower in a 
vegetable dish, and strain the sauce over it. 

86. — SPINACH— POBTUaUESE WAT. 

Boil two pounds of spinach in plenty of 
water for three minutes only; strain and 
chop them well, put them in a frying-pan 
with three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful 
of flour, pepper^ and salt ; stir over the fire 
until nearly fried, then add a tablespoonful 
of milk or cream, and stir for five minutes 
more ; serve in a vegetable dish with sip- 
pets of fried bread arranged over the 



i 



50 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

spinacli in a pattern such as a star^ a flower^ 
leaves^ or any device taste may suggest, 

87. — ^AETICHOKES — BAKED OB STEWED. 

Well wash six artichokes, cutting the tips 
off ; then press them to open the leaves ; mix 
together breadcrumbs, plenty of parsley, 
one clove of garlic or shallot finely chopped, 
pepper, salt, thyme or marjoram, and with 
this stuffing fill in between the leiaves of 
the artichoke and cover over so as to form 
a head or crown j place the artichokes in a 
deep baking dish, and into each pour a few 
drops of salad oil or hot butter; half fill 
the dish with water; bake in a moderately 
hofc oven until the leaves pull off easily, and 
nearly all the water has been consumed, 
leaving a thick gravy, which should be 
poured over the artichokes when dished. 

Should the artichokes be preferred 
stewed, prepare them in the * same way, 
and stew in a caserole instead of baking. 

88. — STUFFED CUCUMBER. 

Proceed as for stuffed vegetable mar- 
row (82). 



VEaETABLES. 51 

89. — FEENCH BEAN SALAD. 

Boil sliced French beans, and serve with 
oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt over them 
while hot ; this is an excellent way of pre- 
paring French beans for a cold dinner. 

90. — STEWED VEGETABLES. 

Fry in three ounces of buttftr to a light 
brown, some spring onions, parsley, and two 
tomatoes cut up; add a spoonful of flour, 
mixing into this one pint of water, and pour 
into a stew-pan; cut one pound of pumpkin, 
gourd, or vegetable marrow in pieces, half a 
pound of French beans in halves, half a 
pint of shelled green peas, a sprig of fresh 
mint, one capsicum, and put all these vege- 
tables in the stew-pan; add pepper and salt, 
and stew gently until thoroughly cooked. 
As the pumpkin, gourd, or marrow requires 
less time to cook than tho other vegetables, 
they should be put into the stew an hour 
after the others. This stew requires from 
two. to three hours* cooking. 

4— ^ i 



52 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 
91. — STEWED ENDIVES AND CELEET. 

Put into a small stew-pan two endives cut 
in five pieces each, one head of celery in 
pieces two inches long; mix into this one 
tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of fresh 
butter, half a pint of milk mixed with 
pounded almonds, pepper, and salt, and 
simmer until thoroughly done; mix the yolk 
of an egg and cream with a few drops of 
lemon juice into the sauce before dishing. 
Vegetables dressed in this way are very 
wholesome and suitable for fish dinners, 

92. — POTATOES — WITH TOMATOES. 

Slice some raw potatoes, fry them in lard 
or dripping, and put them in a vegetable 
dish; cut up some tomatoes, stir them in the 
pan over the fire, with the fat remaining 
after the potatoes have been fried, until they 
are rubbed into a sauce; add pepper and salt, 
and pour it over the potatoes. 

93. — TURNIPS — WITH SAUCE. 

Turnips are very excellent dressed this 
way : peel and boil some good, tender, and 



PUDDINOS AND SWEET DISHES. 53 

very white tnniips^ cut them in quarters, 
place ill a vegetable dish, and pour over 
them some rich butter sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 

94. — BREAD AND CHBBEY PUDDING. 

Soak three-quarters of a pound of bread 
cut in thin slices in two pints of milk, 
adding three ounces of butter, and cover for 
ten minutes; beat four eggs with some 
moist sugar and a teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, and mix into the soaked bread ; 
butter a pudding-dish, and having stoned 
one pound of very ripe black cherries, place 
them at the bottom of the pudding-dish; 
add the bread mixture and sift some pow- 
dered cinnamon over it. Bake dry, and 
deep brown. 

95. — BREAD AND DAMSON PITDDINa. 

This pudding is made in the same manner 
as the preceding, with only this difference, 
that the damsons are stewed with sugar 



54 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

first and then stoned^ and put into a mould 
instead of a pudding-dish ; bake well. 

96. — SPANISH CUSTAED. 

Put in an enameled saucepan one quart 
of milk, four teaspoonfuls of flour, the rind 
of half a lemon, quarter pound of loaf sugar, 
and a small piece of cinnamon; mix and stir 
it well with a wooden spoon, and boil three 
minutes, taking care to stir all the time ; re- 
move from the fire and take away the lemon- 
peel and cinnamon; mix into it the yolks of 
eight eggs well beaten up, pour it into a flat 
dish or in a glass one, and allow it to get 
perfectly cold ; sprinkle some imoist sugar 
over it, and with a red hot salamander, or 
small flat iron, bum the sugar on the custard 
as evenly as possible; split some savoy 
cakes and place them around the edge of the 
dish, ornamenting the centre by forming a 
star, a leaf, or a flower, or indeed any pattern 
or device taste may suggest, by cutting the 
savoy biscuits into little pieces or shapes. 
This custard will be found a very elegant 
dish for dinners or suppers. 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 55 

97. — POETtrauESB eicb. 

Into three pints of milk put half a pound 
of rice^ the rind of half a lemon^ half a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon^ and about half a 
pound of lump sugar, and simmer until the 
rice is very well cooked^ thick and soft, 
generally taking two hours to become so ; 
stir it frequently that it may not bum; 
remove the saucepan from the fire, let it 
stand five minutes for the rice to swell, 
then mix into it the yolks only of six eggs 
well whipped, without setting the saucepan 
on the fire, as the egg would curdle ; turn it 
out into a fiat dish, or better still a glass 
one, and sift some powdered cinnamon over 
it all and serve. This rice will keep a week, 
and is equally good cold or hot. 

98. — SCALDED SPONGE CAKES. 

Lay six sponge cakes in a pudding-dish, 
sprinkle a little cinnamon or grated nutmeg 
and a very little sugar^ pour a pint of boil- 
ing milk over them and serve at once. 
This is a very nice substitute for a pudding, 



66 THB CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

is very light and delicate^ fit for the invalid^ 
the nursery^ or in a general wbj, and is 
very quickly prepared. 

99. — BEEAD FEITTEBS. 

Cut two French rolls into five rounds 
each^ and moisten Tfith a little milk and 
sugar. Well beat up four ^gs^ and dip the 
rounds of bread thoroughly in the eggs* 
Pry them in boiling oil to a light brown 
colour very evenly. Warm in a small 
saucepan some honey^ adding water only 
sufficient to thin it a little ; dip the fritters 
into it, and lay them on a dish^ pouring the 
remainder of the warm honey over them. 
If honey is not at hand^ make a thick 
syrup with a pound of sugar, some lemoii 
or Seville orange rind, and a piece of cin- 
namon in one pint of water, and boil for 
half an hour, using it the same way as the 
honey. 

100.— MOORISH FRITTERS. 

Put half a pound of fine breadcrumbs 
into a basin with a grated apple and lemon 
peel, two ounces of sugar, one tablespoonful 

i 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 67 

of brandy, three well-beaten eggs, and milk 
enough to moisten it to the consistency of 
porridge, and mix all well. Pour spoonfuls of 
this mixture into a frying-pan with boiling 
lard, so as* to form little cakes, and brown 
lightly; place them on a dish, sift some 
sugar and cinnamon over them, and serre 
hot. 

101. — ^nroiAN CORN FMTTBES. 

Pat into a basin one pound of coarse 
Indian corn flour, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and a teaspoonf ul of pounded 
aniseed ; mix into it sufficient boiling water 
to make it the consistency of mashed 
potatoes, and make it up into small cakes. 
Fry in boiling lard, place them on a dish, 
and sift sugar and cinnamon over them. 
Serve hot. 

102. — APPLE rEITTBRS. 

Peel and cut some apples into rounds, 
removing the core, and soak them in a 
mixture made with sherry wine, a little 
sugar, and powdered cinnamon, just sufficient 
to cover them, for two hours. Make a batter 
with flour, egg, and milk, well whipped to 
the consistency of cream; take the apple 



58 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

ronnds from the mixtare, and dip them in 
this batter; throw them one by one into 
boiling lard^ letting them brown lightly; 
sift some sngar^ with a little cinnamon^ or, if 
preferred, pour a little hot honey or symp 
over them^ and serre. 

103. — BAKED APPLE*— WITH SYEUP. 

Wash and scoop some large baking apples, 
pat them in a deep pie-dish^ with moist 
sugar (at the rate of one ponnd to every 
dozen apples), a little cinnamon, cloves, or 
nutmeg ; half fill the dish with water, and 
bake in a hot oven until the apples are 
thoroughly done, and browned, the syrup 
remaining thick ; let them stand until cold, 
and dish them in a glass dish, pouring the 
syrup over them. 

104.— STEWED QUFNCB. 

Peel and cut into quarters some quinces, 
removing the core, and put them in a 
preserving pan with some loaf sugar^ and 
water suflScient to just cover them; let 
them boil gently until they are quite tender, 
and the fruit turns a deep red colour ; the 
syrup should remain rather thick; put them 
away until cold, and serve in a glass disL 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 59 
105. — LTINCHEON TOAST. 

Toast a round of new bread without crust, 
spBinkle over it a little cinnamon, powdered 
aniseed, and sifted sugar, in equal quanti- 
ties; pour some sherry or port wine by 
degrees into the toast until well soaked. 
The bread should be quite hot when served, 
and will be found very useful for persons 
suffering from weak digestions, or who, 
having small and delicate appetites, can 
take but small quantities of food at a time. 

106. — SPANISH CHOCOLATE. 

Spanish chocolate is always made thick, 
and for the purpose put one ounce of choco- 
late for every teacupf ul of water. Mill it 
whilst boiling, and when it has risen three 
times stand it in a warm comer of the stove 
(without boiling) for a few minutes, as it 
improves it. This is taken at Merienda, 
which stands for afternoon tea, in Spain, 
and would be a pleasant and agreeable 
change in England. 

107. — HOW TO MAKE COFFEE. 

To a quart of cold water put one ounce 
or an ounce and a half of coffee, according 
as it is wanted very strong. Let it boil up, 



60 THE CONnNENTAL PISH OOOK. 

stir well, and then throw in half a cupf al of 
cold water to precipitate the coffee grounds. 
Coyer it up well and let it simmer on the 
hob for an hour and a half to two hours. 
Let it stand for three minutes and pour 
into the silver coffee-pot, carefully leaving 
the grounds behind. Should the coffee be 
wanted for breakfast, it can be made the 
previous evening, and warmed upj care 
being taken not to put it back with the 
grounds, as it would make it thick. Coffee 
made in this way, and drained into a clean 
jar, is ready for use at any time, and will 
keep for several days, ready when required 
without having to make it every day. 

108. — AFRICAN WAY OP MAKlNa COPfBE. 

Take some freshly ground Mocha coffee 
and put it into sweet fresh cold milk, as 
much as may be required for breakfast, and 
stir the coffee into the milk without boiling; 
let it stand until the morning, when it is 
boiled up only once. Pour into the cups 
gently, so as to leave the coffee grounds at 
the bottom. This is a very nourishing and 
stimulating beverage, as no water is put into 
it, and is greatly used by traveUers in Africa. 



INDEX. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 



KO. 
1. 

2. 
3 
4. 
6. 



Lentil Potage 
Haricot Bean Potage - 
Spanish Peas, Soup or Potage 
Macaroni Soup 
Vermicelli Soup 

6. Barcelona Vegetable Soup 

7. Bread Soup - 

8. Another Bread Soup - 

9. Cod's Head and Bice - 

10. Prawn Soup - 

11. Eel Soup 

12. Fish Soup 



t>AOS 

6 
6 
7 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
9 
10 
11 



FISH. 

13. Boiled Salmon 

14. Pickled Salmon — Spanish way 

15. Baked Salmon 

16. Fried Salmon — ^with Tomatoes 

17. Red Mallets—broiled - 

18. Bed Mullets— baked - 

19. Bed Mullets — en papillotes 

20. Bed Mullets — with tomato sauce 

21. Pickled Bed Mullets - 

22. Soles — ^Andalusian way 

23. Soles — in a plainer way 

24. Baked Soles - 

25. Soles — k la Busse 

26. Stuffed Salmon Bream - 

27. Broiled Salmon Bream - 



12 
12 
13 
13 
13 
14 
15 
15 
16 
16 
17 
17 
18 
19 
19 



I 



62 INDEX. 

KO. 

28. Stewed Salmon Bream - 

29. Gurnets 

30. Eels — ^with mashed potatoes 
SI. Eels — with walnut sauce 

32. Stewed Eels - 

33. Fricassee of Eels 

34. Eels — with tomato sauce 

35. Pickled Eels - 

36. Pickled Eels — another way 

37. Skate— & la Catalana - 

38. Skate — with Jerusalem artichokes 

39. Skate — ^with mushrooms 

40. To Dress Skate with Green Peas 

41. Stewed Mackerel 

42. Pickled Mackerel 

43. Pickled Mackerel — another way • 

44. To Dress Dry Cod or Ling Fish - 

45. To Boil Cod or Ling Fish 

46. Codfish Pudding 

47. Fricassee of Codfish 

48. Croquetes of Codfish - 

49. Codfish — with capsicums 

50. Broiled Codfish — for breakfast - 

51. Baked Codfish — either fresh or salted 

52. Dry Codfish — with rice 

53. Dry Codfish — stewed with tomatoes 

54. Muquepa (an African dish] 

55. Fish Balls - 

56. Stuffed Sprats 

57. Another Way of Dressing Sprats 

58. A Lobster Stew 



OMELETTES. 

59. Spinach Omelette 

60. Lettuce Omelette 

61. Asparacus Omelette 

62. Artichoke Omelette 

63. A Common Omelette 

64. Cheese Omelette 



IKDEX. 



63 



HO. 

65. Shrimp or Oyster Omelette 

66. Lobster Omelette 

67. Potato Omelette^without eggs 



PAGE 

40 
40 
40 



EGOS. — ^DIFFERENT WAYS OP DRESSING. 

68. Eggs — ^with sauce - • - 41 

69. Eggs — ^with caper sauce - . 42 

70. Eggs — ^with spinach • • - 42 

71. Eggs — ^with tomatoes - - - 42 

72. Egg Pisto (a Spanish breakfast dish) • 43 

73. Eggs and Onions - • .43 



CROQUETES. 



74. Salmon Croquetes 

75. Turbot Croquetes 

76. Italian Croquetes 

77. Oyster Croquetes 

78. Anchovy Salad 

79. Bloater Salad 



44 
44 
45 
45 
46 
46 



VEGETABLES. 

80. Stuffed Lettuce— k la Bayonnaise 

81. Stuffed Cabbaee 

82. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow 

83. Baked Spanish Onions - 

84. Fried Carrots — Belgian way 

85. Boiled Cauliflower — with sauce 

86. Spinach — Portuguese way 

87. Artichokes — baked or stewed 

88. Stuffed Cucumber 

89. French Bean Salad 

90. Stewed Vegetables 

91. Stewed Endives and Celery 

92. Potatoes — with tomatoes 

93. Turnips— with satt«e • 



47 
47 
48 
48 
48 
49 
49 
50 
50 
51 
51 
52 
52 
52 



64 



INDEX. 



PUDDINGS AND SWEK DISHI8. 



HO. 

94. 


Bread and Cherry Pudding 


TAOM 

53 


95. 


Bread and Damson Padding 


63 


96. 


Spanish Custard 


64 


97. 


Portuguese Rice 


65 


98. 


Scalded Sponge Cakes 


65 


99. 


Bread Fritters 


66 


100. 


Moorish Fritters 


66 


101. 


Indian Com Fritters - 


67 


102. 


Apple Fritters 


67 


103. 


Baked Apples — ^with symp 
Stewed Quince 


68 


104. 


68 


105. 


Luncheon Toast 


69 



CHOCOLATE AND COFFBX. 



106. Spanish Chocolate 

107. How to Make Coffee • 

108. African Way of Making Coffee 



69 
69 
60 




S, Fr(u/(&0Ki7^i Printer, 18 PaterMtter Bcwt ^wukm. 



.y 



9KL 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



"idii 



80007948a 



V 



THE 



CONTINENTAL FISH COOK : 



OB, 



A FEW HINTS ON MAIGRE DINNERS. 



BY 



M. J. N. 



DE FRED] 




LONDON : 
R. WASHBOURNE, 18 PATERNOSTER ROW. 

1874. 
Price One Shilling, 



^U . 



X,5% 



PREFACE. 



The Writer of this book is a foreign Lady, 
resident in England for some years, but 
who has lived in, and travelled through, 
many countries, where, owing to climate 
and other reasons. Fish and Maigre Dinners 
and Meals are of paramount importance, 
and where an excellent variety of dishes is 
provided, adapted to the requirements of 
lighter food. And as some of her friends in 
England have solicited her, for some time 
past, to write down a few recipes such as 
she has seen used in other countries, and 
different from those usual in England, she 
accordingly presents this little work to her 
many English friends, trusting that her 
efforts will prove acceptable to them, as well 
as to the public in general, and she can 



IV PREFACE. 

assure them that if, from her book, they 
cull a few hints for providing a diversified 
and economical dinner, she will have been 
amply rewarded for the time and labour 
spent in arranging all the information con- 
tained in these pages, and which she oflfers 
in grateful remembrance of the warm 
hospitality and welcome which she, as a 
foreigner, has always met with during her 
long residence on English soil. 



THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 

1. — LENTIL POTAGE. 

In two quarts of water boil half a pint of 
lentils, with one onion, a head of garlic, one 
shallot, a sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, 
three cloves, a teacupful of salad oil, or 
three ounces of butter, and some pepper — 
for two hours; then add three ounces of 
rice, and one pound of spinach, par-boiled 
and chopped, and let all boil together for 
two more hours, or until thoroughly cooked, 
stirring it frequently, as this potage is 
served thick, and easily burns if not care- 
fully stirred. Salt should not be added 
until just before serving, as it hardens the 



V 6 THE CONTINENTAL IT^SH COOK. 

lentils. Oil should always be preferred to 
butter in preparing potages of all kinds, 
being more mellow, and therefore better 
adapted for dressing lentils and beans of all 
descriptions. 

2. — HARICOT BEAN POTAGE. 

Boil for one hour half a pint of haricot 
beans in two quarts of water — fry in a 
teacupful of oil two sliced onions, four 
cloves of garlic or shallots, a sprig of parsley 
and two ounces of bread crumb, a teaspoon- 
ful of capsicum pepper, or a pinch of 
cayenne — ^pound all this in a mortar, with 
three cloves, and a little black pepper, mix 
a little water into this, and pour all into the 
saucepan with the haricot beans, and let it 
boil two hours longer; then add three 
ounces of rice, a little par-boiled spinach, one 
bay leaf, and some salt — ^let it stew for 
another hour, and serve. 

This is a richer way of making potages 
than the above, and all beans may be dressed 
either way. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 7 

3. — SPANISH PEAS, SOUP OR POTAGE. 

Same as the preceding, with the only 
difference, that Spanish peas require soaking 
over night in a little salt and water. 

4. — ^MACARONI SOUP. 

Throw half a pound of macaroni into 
three pints of boiling water, with three 
ounces of butter, one carrot, one turnip, a 
few celery stems, one onion, some fresh 
mint cut up small, pepper and salt — boil for 
an hour and a quarter, or until the maca- 
roni and vegetables are quite tender, but 
not broken from over boiling — pour this 
soup into a tureen, and then mix into it 
two well-beaten eggs, and serve with grated 
cheese — either Parmesan, or good Dutch 
cheese. 

5. — VERMICELLI SOUP. 

In one quart of boiling water put half a 
pound of vermicelli, and boil for five minutes 
with two ounces of good butter, pepper and 
salt to taste ; pour this into a tureen, mix. 



8 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

two well-beaten eggs in it, and serve with 
grated cheese. This soup should remain 
thick. 

6. — BARCELONA VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cut a Savoy cabbage into small pieces 
and boil it in two pints of water ; put some 
small sippets of toasted bread into a tureen, 
and pour the cabbage and water over the 
bread; add two tablespoonfuls of oil, or 
two ounces of butter, and a little vinegar, 
pepper, and salt. Stir it well, and serve. 

7.-— BREAD SOUP. 

Take one pound of best wheaten bread 
sliced fine, three ounces of butter, a little 
mint, pepper, and salt to taste, and boil in 
one and a half pints of water for one hour ; 
let it stand covered a few minutes, then 
mix three eggs beaten up into the soup, 
and serve— -^care being taken never to put 
the saucepan on the fire after the eggs are 
mixed in, as the soup might curdle. Pour 
it into a tureen, and serve with grated 
cheese. 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 9 

8. — ^ANOTHER BREAD SOUP. 

Toast two rounds of bread, cut into 
square pieces, and place in a tureen ; break 
over it two raw eggs, add two ounces of 
butter, some powdered dried mint, and a 
little salt; pour over all sufficient boiling 
water to soak the bread, and remain rather 
thick ; stir it quickly to mix the eggs, and 
cover for five minutes, and send up. This 
soup is very nice, and quickly made, as it 
does not require cooking. 

9. — cod's head and rice. 

Take half a cod's head and shoulders, 
and put in a saucepan with one quart of 
water to boil for fifteen minutes; fry, in 
four ounces of butter, one onion and two 
tomatoes, sliced, some chopped parsley, 
pepper, salt, and two cloves; when nicely 
fried, put it all into the saucepan, with the 
fish, add half a pound of rice, and boil until 
it is all well cooked ; let it stand away from 
the fire for ten minutes, and serve up. 



10 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

10. — PRAWN SOUP. 

Take one pound, of bread, sliced fine, and 
place in layers in a stew-pan ; fry, in three 
ounces of butter, two Spanish onions, one or 
two tomatoes cut small, one shallot, and a 
little parsley chopped finely; when all is 
nicely browned, lay it all over the bread 
with a little pepper, salt, and two cloves ; 
pick two dozen prawns, and place them on 
the bread; pound the refuse in a mortar 
with a little water, strain through a sieve, 
and pour it over all, adding more water 
if required, as it should have a quart 
altogether ; boil gently for three-quarters of 
an hour; let it stand ten minutes away 
from the fire, and serve. This soup must 
not be stirred with a spoon, as tlie bread 
should not be displaced or broken, and should 
remain thick and savoury. 

11. — EEL SOUP. 

In three ounces of butter fry three large 
tomatoes, six spring onions, and some parsley 
cut up into small pieces, and stir in the pan 



POTAGES AND SOUPS. 11 

until the tomatoes are melted into a sauce, 
and aU has taken a light brown colour ; add 
one pound of eels cut up into small pieces, 
and stir them in the pan with the tomatoes 
and onions for a few minutes. In a stew-pan 
lay one pound of thinly -sliced bread, and 
throw over it the contents of the frying- 
pan ; add pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, 
one quart of water, and boil for one hour. 
Serve in a tureen, carefully, so as not to 
break up the eels or bread. Oysters, 
mussels, or any kind of fish may be sub- 
stituted in making this soup. 

12. — FISH SOUP. 

Take the head and bones from soles which 
have been filleted, and make the following 
excellent soup: boil them gently for two 
hours in a pint and a half of water, with a 
little salt, and strain ; brown,' in three ounces 
of butter, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, 
a few shreds of safiron, and a very little 
flour; add the liquor from the fish, and turn 
all into an iron saucepan^ and put it on the 



12 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

fire ; when it begins to boil, mix by degrees 
into it two tablespoonfuls of semolina, let it 
boil for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 



FISH. 



^ 



13. — BOILED SAXMON. 

The way to boil salmon being generally 
known it will be unnecessary to describe 
it; the following recipe will, however, be 
found useful for dressing cold boiled sal- 
mon : — 

14. — PICKLED SALMON — SPANISH WAY. 

Take the remains of boiled salmon, re- 
move carefully aU the bones, and divide it 
into nice pieces ; lay them in a deep dish. 
Chop finely a good bunch of parsley, some 
capers, and two hard-boiled eggs ; well mix 
this in a basin with a little mustard, pepper, 
salt, oil, and vinegar, and pour it all, over 
the salmon; a few chopped spring onions 
or half a Spjinish onion added, is a great 
improvement where onions are not objected 



k 



FISH. 13 

to; garnish with sliced cucumber. Fish 
pickled in this way will keep good a week 
or even longer. 

15.-^BAKED SALMON. 

Place in a clean baking dish a small sal- 
mon of about two or three pounds weight, 
and line the dish with thin rounds of 
Spanish onions; spread over the fish and 
onions bread crumbs, a good quantity of 
chopped parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, 
mixed altogether, and pour over all a quar- 
ter of a pound of hot butter or oil, half a 
pint of water, and some lemon juice ; bake 
in a brisk oven and serve in the same dish. 

16. — FEIED SALMON — ^WITH TOMATOES. 

Fry in oil. lard, or dripping, two pounds 
of sliced salmon, and in the fat remaining 
in the frying-pan brown three or four large 
tomatoes cut in small pieces, stirring with 
a spoon until they are melted ; pour the 
contents of the frying-pan into a wire sieve 
and rub through ; add pepper and salt ; 
warm this up and pour the sauce nicely 






14 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

over the fried salmon. Any kind of fried 
fish is nice dressed in this way. 

17. — RED MULLETS— BROILED. 

Take some red mullets, remove carefully 
all the livers and put them all into one of 
the red mullets ; cover each fish with bread 
crumbs, pepper, and salt, and broil on a 
gridiron over a very clear fire, wetting them 
frequently with a brush dipped in hot 
butter until the mullets are thoroughly 
done, when the livers are taken out and 
rubbed on a plate or small basin with a 
spoon, adding some hot melted butter until 
it becomes a thick sauce ; then add the well- 
whipped yolks of two eggs, pepper, salt, 
and mustard to taste, care being taken to 
hold the plate or basin before the fire all 
the time, that the sauce may keep hot, as 
it must not be boiled or put in a saucepan ; 
pour the sauce on a dish, and place the red 
mullets over the sauce, and garnish with 
slices of lemon or beetroot. This is the 
best and most delicious way of dressing red 
mullets, and fit for any recherche dinner. 



FISH. 15 

18. — RED MULLETS — ^BAKED. 

Place six red mullets on a flat dish or 
baking tin, and cover them with bread 
crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
three ounces of butter, and a squeeze of 
lemon ; sprinkle a few spoonfuls of water 
over the fish, and bake in a quick oven to 
a nice brown colour. 

19. — RED MULLETS — EN PAPILLOTES. 

This recipe hardly requires explanation 
as it is so well known, being found in most 
cookery books, but being a very nice way 
of dressing mullets it may as well be in- 
cluded. Dip each fish in eggs and bread 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and- 
wrap each mullet in a sheet of well-but- 
tered paper, and broil on a gridiron over a 
clear fire. 

20. — RED MULLETS — WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Same as the recipe for salmon (16) ; but 
when fresh tomatoes are not in season, the 
mullets may be served with tomato sauce. 



16 THE CONTINENTAL PISH COOK. 

such as is sold in bottles at the Italian 
warehouses. . 

21. — PICKLED RED MULLETS. 

Fry the mullets in butter, lard, or oil 
(the latter preferred), to a nice crisp brown ; 
laj' the fried fish in a rather deep dish, and 
in the fat that remains in the frying-pan 
brown two cloves of garlic, add two bay 
leaves, six pepper-corns, pepper and salt, 
four cloves, and a wineglassful of vinegar ; 
boil for three minutes, and pour over the 
fish, garnished with rounds or slices of 
lemon. This is an excellent supper dish, 
as it is equally nice cold or hot. The above 
proportion of spices, &c., serves for three 
or four mullets. This recipe can be applied 
to almost any kind of fish. 

22. — SOLES— ANDALUSIAN WAY. 

Take two middle-sized soles and fry them 
of a light brown colour — either in butter 
or oil — and in the fat remaining in the fry- 
ing-pan after the soles have been fried, 
brown two onions finely sKced, a bunch of 




FISH. 17 

parsley, two cloves of garlic or two shallots, 
and a thick slice of bread without crust ; 
when all has been fried, put everything, 
with the exception of the fish, into a mor- 
tar with two pounded cloves, pepper, and 
salt, and pound well into a fine pulp ; add 
one pint of water, and rub it all through a 
wire sieve, putting it all into the frjang- 
pan again, and put your fried soles into the 
sauce, letting all boil together for about ten 
minutes, until the sauce is thick enough to 
serve. 

23. — SOLES — IN A PLAINER WAY. 

Make some butter sauce in the usual 
way with a quarter of a pound of good 
butter, flour, pepper and salt, and just suffi- 
cient water to make a rather thick sauce, 
stir and boil for a minute or two; then 
place in an oval stew-pan a large sole, and 
pour the butter sauce over it and boil for 
about half an hour, or until the sole is well 
cooked — ^there should be sufficient saue^ to 
cover the sole, but no more — divide in four 

1—% 



18 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

pieces a thin round of dry toast and lay it 
on a hot flat dish, and place the sole on the 
bread, pouring the sauce over all ; arrange 
some boiled turnips around the fish and 
serve. 

24. — BAKED SOLES. 

Mix together some bread crumbs, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt ; sprinkle about a 
handful of this on a flat dish, lay two dozen 
oysters around the dish, and place a good- 
sized sole in the centre, and smother all 
well with the mixed bread crumbs ; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and pour it 
over with the juice of half a lemon, a little 
water, and all the liquor from the oysters ; 
bake in a quick oven to a light brown until 
it remains nearly dry. The fish must not 
be removed from the dish, but sent to table 
on the same dish on which the sole has been 
baked. 

25. — SOLES — i LA RUSSE. 

Take the fillets of two or three larcr© 
soles, and cut them in two, lengthways ; 



FISH. 19 

roll up each piece and tie with a bit of 
thread, and boil carefully in a little water ; 
make a rich butter sauce with butter, a 
little milk, flour, pepper and salt, and some 
of the liquor in which the soles were boiled; 
boil this sauce well for about five minutes ; 
remove from the fire, and mix into it, just 
before serving, the yolks of three eggs 
well whipped, with a little cream, and the 
juice of half a lemon; place the fillets of 
sole on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over 
them ; garnish with bits of boiled cauli- 
flower. 

26. — STUFFED SALMON BREAM. 

Stuff a salmon bream with the following 
ingredients: bread crumbs, a little butter, 
chopped parsley, and a very little onion, 
some thyme, pepper, and salt, but not egg ; 
lay the fish on a dish, put thinly-sliced 
potatoes and onions around the fish ; spread 
bread crumbs, with chopped parsley, over 
all, about a quarter of a pound of butter in 
bits, sprinkle a little water to moisten the 



20 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

fish, and bake in a brisk oven ; serve in the 
same dish. 

27. — BROILED SALMON BREAM. 

Stuff your fish as in the preceding re- 
cipe, and broil it carefully on the gridiron, 
basting it frequently with a brush dipped 
in oil or hot butter; when thoroughly 
cooked put it on a hot dish, and spread 
finely-chopped onion, parsley, and a few 
capers ; mix some oil and vinegar, or lemon 
juice, and pour it over all. The following 
sauce may be used in3tead, for a change, if 
preferred: scald and peel some tomatoes, 
rub them with some butter over the fire 
until they dissolve into a sauce, add a little 
pepper and salt ; pour into a dish, and place 
the fish on it. When tomatoes are not in 
season, tomato sauce, with a little butter 
and water added, and boiled for five mi- 
nutes, is a good substitute. 

28. — STEWED SALMON BREAM. 

Fry a good slice of bread, without crust, 
some parsley, a tablespoonful of capers in a 



I 



FISH. 21 

quarter of a pound of butter, and pound 
all in a mortar ; mix into this a teaspoonf ul 
of anchovy sauce, a wineglassful of wine, 
and a pint of water ; lay the salmon bream 
in a long stew-pan, pour the contents of 
the mortar over it, and stew gently for 
about half an hour, until the fish is quite 
done. 

29. — GURNETS. 

Gurnets should be dressed in the same 
way as salmon bream, and are equally good, 
making rich and excellent dishes. 

30. — EELS — WITH MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash some potatoes with butter, milk, 
pepper, and salt, and make a high wall 
round a flat dish, leaving the centre free ; 
bake or brown it lightly. Stew two eels, 
cut up in pieces, in some parsley sauce, 
with a little cayenne pepper, and salt ; mix 
the yolk of one egg into the sauce just be- 
fore serving, and very carefully serve the 
stew in the centre of the dish, with the 
mashed potatoes. 



22 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

31. — EELS WITH WALNUT SAUCE. 

In two ounces of butter, brown one 
shallot and a slice of bread ; pound all in a 
mortar with three pickled walnuts, two 
cloves, pepper, and salt ; mix half a pint of 
water, and rub through a cullender into a 
stew-pan with two pounds of eels; stew 
gently until cooked, and serve very hot. 

32. — STEWED EELS. 

Cut two pounds of eels in pieces and lay 
them in a stew-pan; in three ounces of 
butter, fry half a Spanish onion sliced fine, 
one shallot, a sprig of parsley, and a table- 
spoonful of flour, to a light brown colour ; 
mix into this one wineglassful of port 
or Catalan wine, and half a pint of water ; 
pour all into the stew-pan with the eels ; 
add a bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt, 
and stew gently until the fish is well cooked 
— keeping the stew-pan closely covered — 
and serve. 



i 



FISH. 23 

33. — FRICASSl^E OF EELS. 

In a stew-pan lay two pounds of eels, a 
dice of onion, half a pint of green peas, two 
cloves, pepper and salt, one tablespoonful of 
flour, and half a pint of water, and boil gently 
until thoroughly cooked. Before dishing, 
and after removing the stew-pan from the 
fire, mix into the sauce a liaison of two 
yolks of eggs, some cream, and a little 
lemon juice, and serve with sippets of fried 
bread. 

34. — EELS — WnH TOMATO SAUCE. 

This recipe is the same as the one headed 
" Fried Salmon with Tomatoes " (16). 

35. — PICKLED EELS. 

Cut up some eels in pieces two inches 
long, and lay them in a deep dish ; in a 
mortar, pound one clove of garlic, pepper, 
salt, and a teaspoonful of capsicum pepper, 
some thyme, adding, when well pounded, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and one of 
water, and pour all this over the fish ; let 



24 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

it stand for two hours, then wipe the fish 
dry in a cloth, flour and fry them in hot 
lard or butter ; serve with endive or celery 
salad. 

36. — PICKLED EELS — ANOTHER WAY. 

Proceed the same as for pickled red mul- 
lets (21). 

37. — SKATE — 1 LA CATALANA. 

Chop finely two shallots, two tablespoon- 
fuls of capers, two anchovies, and a sprig 
of parsley ; put them into a stew-pan with 
a quarter of a pound of butter or salad oil, 
three spoonfuls of boiling water, and one 
of caper vinegar, stir all well over the fire 
until completely mixed ; lay in this sauce 
two pounds of skate, and stew until the 
fish is well cooked. 

38. — SKATE — ^WITH JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, 

Brown very lightly two tablespoonfuls of 
flour in three ounces of butter, and mix by 
degrees one pint of milk, pepper, and salt ; 
pour it into a stew-pan with two pounds of 



% 



FISH. 25 

skate, cut in pieces a sprig of parsley, and 
one pound of Jerusalem artichokes, which 
have been previously boiled, but not tho- 
roughly cooked ; stew all together until the 
fish and artichokes are quite tender ; serve, 
garnished with slices of fried potatoes. 

39. — SKATE — WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Boil for a quarter of an hour two dozen 
mushrooms, keeping them whole ; place on 
a flat (Jish one pound and a half of skate, 
and lay the mushrooms around the dish ; 
sprinkle over all four ounces of bread 
crumbs, mixed with a good bunch of well- 
chopped parsley, salt, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, and pour over, a quarter of a pound 
of hot butter, and half a tumblerful of 
water ; bake in a moderately quick oven ; 
serve in the same dish. When mushrooms 
are not in season, oysters may be substi- 
tuted. 

40. — TO DRESS SKATE WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Make a rich sauce with a good piece of 
butter, flour, and milk, and throw into it 

3 



26 THE CONTINENTAL FTSH COOK. 

some chopped parsley and green peas, pre- 
viously boiled. Fry some pieces of skate 
with egg and bread crumbs, or butter; 
serve up very hot, and pour the sauce over 
it. 

41. — STEWED MACKEREL. 

Pound two cloves of garlic with three 
ounces of bread crumbs, and rub into it 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and one pint 
of water ; add some anchovy sauce, pepper, 
and salt; pour into a stew-pan, and put 
into it four mackerels cut in three pieces 
each ; stew gently until quite tender, and 
serve up, bearing in mind that the sauce 
must be of the consistency of cream. 

Skates or eels done in the same way are 
excellent. 

42. — PICKLED MACKEREL. 

Same as pickled red mullets (21). 

43. — PICKLED MACKEREL — ^ANOTHER WAY. 

Proceed as for pickled salmon in the 
Spanish way (14). 



FISH. 27 

.44. — TO DRESS DRY COD OR LING FISH. 

Dry cod or ling fish is very little known 
in England, bat may be had in several 
shops in London, as foreigners and many 
English persons who have been abroad 
know well what delicious and excellent 
dinners may be made with the addition . of 
this palatable fish. I shall therefore, by 
way of introducing an agreeable variety 
into English fish dinners, proceed to give 
several very good recipes for dressing* dry 
codfish. 

In many countries where fresh fish is 
scarce, this fish constitutes the principal 
food of both rich and poor during Lent. 

It must be borne in mind that this fish, in 

whichever way it may be dressed, must as 

a rule be steeped or soaked in lukewarm 

water from the evening previous to the day 

in which it may be required, aa otherwise it 

would remain too hard and salt, and unfit 

to be properly cooked ; care must also be 

taken in the manner of boiling, which I 

shaU describe as foUows :— 

3— *i 



28 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

45. — TO BOIL COD OE LING FISH. 

Take two or three pounds of salt fish pre- 
viously soaked^ scrape and ^wash it, place in 
the fish kettle with cold water enough to 
cover, put right on the fire until it boils up, 
when, place on the side of the grate keep- 
ing it hot but not boiling until the fish is 
tender ; this process generally takes an hour 
and a quarter reckoning from the time it is 
first put on the fire ; if the cod is allowed 
to boil hard it becomes tough and indi- 
gestible. Serve with egg, butter sauce, or 
as follows : — 

Place the boiled fish on a dish with a cup- 
ful of the fish liquor, two or three spoonfuls 
of oil and vinegar poured over it; chop 
some parsley, spring onions, capers, and two 
hard-boiled eggs ; spread it all evenly over 
the fish and serve ; or else make the follow- 
ing sauce, which is very nice for all kinds of 
boiled fish : — 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, rub them in a 
mortar with a teaspoonful of mustard, mix 
by degrees about half a teacupful of salad 



FISH. 29 

oil, and a little vinegar to assist thfe mixing, 
until it gets into a creamy state, and the oil 
does not rise ; mix in a good handful of well- 
chopped fresh parsley, spring onions, and a 
tablespoonful of capers ; adding vinegar to 
taste, a little pepper, and some of the hot 
fish liquor, and serve in a sauce-tureen. 
This sauce is not boiled, and only sufficient 
liquor should be added to leave the mixing 
the consistency of thin cream or salad dress- 
ing, and for this effect the eggs must not be 
boiled too hard, and they should be well 
worked up. 

46. — CODFISH PUDDING. 

Soak and boil as above one pound of 
dried salt codfish, the tail part preferred ; 
skin and carefully remove every bone, and 
pound the fish in a mortar to a pulp ; mash 
two pound of boiled potatoes while hot, 
and put the fish pulp and mashed potatoes 
into a basin, adding a quarter of a pound of 
good butter, four eggs, pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; well mix all together 



30 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

but do not add salt; butter a pudding-dish 
and place aU the mash into it, smoothing it 
evenly with a knife, making indentations to 
form a pattern to taste, pour over it about 
an ounce of hot butter, and bake in a good 
quick oven to a deep brown colour ; serve 
with egg-butter sauce. 

47. — FRICASSEE OF CODFISH. 

Fry, in three ounces of butter, to a light 
brown, half an onion, a bunch of parsley, 
a tablespoonful of flour, stirring it all the 
time to prevent its burning; add a little 
pepper, and mix into it half a pint of water ; 
pour all into a stew-pan, and lay in it one or 
two pounds of the dried codfish, which must 
have been previously soaked and boiled as- 
above ; cut up into square pieces, and let it 
stew together for fifteen minutes; before 
dishing take the yolks of two eggs beaten 
up with a little leii^on juice, and gradually 
mix it into the fricassee, taking care that it 
does not curdle ; and after this liaison has 
been added the fricassee must not be put on 
tlie £re again, but dished carefujly. 



FISH. 31 

48. — CROQUETES OF CODFISH. 

Take some pieces of previously boiled 
codfish, cut in small squares or long bits, 
and dip them in a thick batter made with 
an egg, milk, and flour, and fry in hot lard, 
salad oil, or clarified dripping, but not 
butter; when nicely browned serve them 
very hot, garnished with fried parsley ; salad 
ready dressed is usually served with cro- 
quetes when they are prepared for lun- 
cheon or supper. 

49. — CODFISH — WITH CAPSICUMS. 

Fry a slice of bread without crust in 
three ounces of butter, put the bread when 
nicely browned in a mortar, and in the 
butter that remains in the pan, fry one 
sliced onion, one shallot, and a dessertspoon- 
ful of sweet capsicum pepper, a little black 
pepper, and two cloves ; add half a pint of 
water and put it all into a mortar with the 
fried piece of bread, pounding it all into a 
sauce ; add a little more water and pour all 
into a stew-pan with about a pound of cod- 



32 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

fish previously soaked, boiled, and cut into 
small square pieces ; stew lialf an hour, 
when it will be ready to serve. 

50. — BROILED CODFISH — FOR BREAKFAST. 

Take one or two pounds of dried codfish 
which has been previously soaked but not 
boiled ; wash it well, and dry it in a clean 
cloth; broil it on a gridiron over a very 
clear fire, until of a light brown colour ; put 
it on a hot dish and rub some butter over 
the fish, with the juice of half a lemon ; 
shake some black pepper over it and serve. 
Some plain boiled rice, as for curry, with a 
little butter mixed in, should be served with 
the fish. Codfish dressed this way is a 
good substitute for broiled haddock for 
breakfast. 

51.— BAKED CODFISH — EITHER FRESH OR 

SALTED. 

Cut into thin rounds two large onions 
and two or three raw potatoes, sprinkle 
some fine bread crumbs and chopped parsley 
on a flat dish, place the onions and potatoes 



FISH. 33 

in alternate slices arouDd the dish, lay the 
codfish in the centre, and well cover all with 
bread crumbs and parsley; some butter 
made hot and poured over, sprinkle half a 
pint of water on the bread crumbs and 
fish ; well bake it in a quick oven. If the 
codfish used be fresh, it should be prepared 
raw ; if with dried salt cod, it must have 
been previously soaked and par-boiled: 
either fresh or salted cod is equally good 
prepared in this way. 

52.— FISH BALLS. 

Put in a mortar the remains of any boiled 
fish either salted or fresh, and pound to a 
pulp, carefully removing all the bones ; then 
add some bread crumbs and about two 
ounces of boiled rice, a little marjoram, 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt ; moisten 
it all with one or two eggs according to the 
quantity of fish and ingredients ; with this 
make some moderately sized balls, roll them 
in a little flour, and brown them in boiling 
lard, clarified dripping, or butter; have 



I 



34 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

ready, in a little stew-pan, some butter sauce, 
and drop the balls into this sauce while 
boiling, and let them cook for fifteen 
minutes ; make a liaison with the yolks of 
two eggs, a little cream or milk, and a few 
drops of lemon juice, and mix into the sauce 
before serving. 

53. — DRY CODFISH — WITH RICE. 

Put half a pound of dry codfish to soak 
in boiling water for ten minutes; scrape, 
wash, and dry it in a cloth, then bone and 
shred it in very little bits ; fry, in a little 
salad oil or butter to a light brown, three 
cloves of garlic or shallots, one or two sliced 
Spanish onions, and a little parsley ; then 
add three or four tomatoes, cut up, or some 
tomato sauce, a few shreds of saffron, a 
teaspoonful of sweet capsicum pepper; stir 
it all into a sauce, then add the shredded 
fish, give it a turn or two, then pour it all 
into a stewpan with three-quarters of a 
pound of rice, three pints of water, some 
cloves, mace, and pepper; let it all boil 



FISH. 35 

together briskly for twenty-five minntes; 
remove it from the fire, keeping the lid on, 
and let it stand for ten minutes for the rice 
to swell; serve it piled up lightly on a dish, 
as the rice should remain dry, and every 
grain separate. When boiled rice is required, 
either plain, boiled in wat^r, or in stews, 
care should be taken that it boils hard at 
first, as, otherwise, it becomes soft, watery, 
and unpalatable. 

54. — DRY CODFISH— -STEWED WITH TOMATOES. 

Soak and parboil a piece of codfish, and 
lay it in a stew-pan; brown some sliced 
onions and tomatoes, either in a little oil or 
butter ; add some flour, and rub it all into a 
sauce, with a pint of water ; pour it all into 
the stew-pan with the fish, a little pepper, 
cloves, cayenne, or a chillie, and stew gently 
for an hour. When tomatoes are not in 
season, a few spoonfuls of tomato sauce is a 
good substitute. 

55. — STUFFED SPRATS. 

Bemove the heads, split open the sprats 



36 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

down to the tip of the tail, and take out 
the middle bone, lay them open on a dish, 
make some stniffing with bread crumbs, 
chopped parsley, thyme, grated cheese, a 
small quantity of butter rubbed in, pepper 
and salt, and two eggs mixed in ; well spread 
a spoonful of this stuffing thickly over each 
open sprat ; dip them in whipped egg, and 
fry them in butter or boiling lard to a light 
brown, first on the back, and then on the 
side which has the stuffing, giving them the 
appearance of fritters, or little cakes; pile 
them on a dish, crowning it all with a 
bunch of fried parsley; garnish the dish 
with alternate half rounds of boiled beetroot 
and lemon, with little sprigs of fresh parsley 
between. This is a very pretty dish for 
luncheons and suppers. 

56. — ^ANOTHER WAY OF DRESSING SPRATS. 

Remove the heads; boil the sprats in a 
small quantity of water for ten minutes, put 
them in a little pie dish with the liquor, 
pouring over them a dressing of a little oil 



\ 



OMELETTES. 37 

pepper, salt, mustard, anchovy sauce, and 
vinegar to ta^te. 



OMELETTES. 

57. — SPINACH OMELETTE. 

Boil half a pound of spinach, strain, 
chop, and fry it with butter for a few mi- 
nutes; beat up six eggs for two minutes, 
and pour them into the pan with the 
spinach, adding pepper and salt; stir it all 
well, and let it set ; then turn the omelette 
on the other side, and brown it lightly, as 
it should remain firm but soft ; take a larger 
pan, and fry a few chopped spring .onions 
and parsley; then add a spoonful of flour, 
stir it well, mixing in, a pint of milk gradu- 
ally, and let this sauce boil a few minutes ; 
then place the omelette in this pan with 
the sauce, boil it a minute, and serve. 

This is a delicious sauce for all kinds of 
omelettes, and very easy to prepare. Should 
the sauce be desired richer, add a little 



38 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

cream, with the yolk of an egg mixed into 
it at the time of serving. 

58.— ^LETTUCE OMELETTE. 

Take two French lettuces, cut away the 
stems from each leaf the whole length, chop 
up the leaves, but not the stems, as no use 
is made of them, and fry them, until well 
cooked and tender, in two ounces of butter ; 
add six well-beaten eggs, pepper, and salt, 
and set as above; serve- with or without 
sauce. 

59. — ASPARAGUS OMELETTE. 

Boil twenty-four asparagus for ten 
minutes, chop them finely, fry them with 
butter,' a little chopped onion, and parsley, 
pepper, and salt, mix in, eight eggs well 
beaten up, and fry them on both sides very 
lightly and serve. 

60. — ARTICHOKE OMELETTE. 

This is considered the best and most 
delicate of all omelettes, if properly made. 
Take three young artichokes before the 



OMELETTES. 39 

seed has been developed, cut away all the 
hard outside leaves, and cut the points off 
from the remaining ones ; divide each arti- 
choke in eight pieces, fry them in buttet 
slowly until tender and well cooked ; then 
add eight eggs beaten up, pepper and salt ; 
make the omelette as usual. Another way 
is to mix the eggs as above, only stirring it 
all the time without setting it into an 
omelette, but like buttered eggs, which will 
be found equally as nice, and serves for a 
change. 

61. — ^A COMMON OMELETTE. 

Fry in butter, lard, or dripping, a little 
chopped onion and parsley, beat and mix in 
two, four, or six eggs, fry the omelette 
quickly on one side only, and roll it up like 
a pancake ; serve without sauce. 

62. — CHEESE OMELETTE. * 

Grate two ounces of cheese, double * 
Gloucester, Parmesati, or any good cheese. 
Melt it in the pan with a little butter. 

At— ^=2* 



40 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

pepper, salt, and mustard; mix into this 
four well-beatdn eggs; set very soft, and 
serve very hot. This omelette should be 
made just when it is required, as it becomes 
tough if allowed to stand. 

63. — SHRIMP OR OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Fry in butter half a pint of picked 
shrimps, or two dozen oysters cut up, some 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, then add 
six eggs beaten up, and make the omelette 
the usual way. This omelette should be 
served with ready-dressed salad, or a sauce 
made as for spinach omelette (57). 

64. — LOBSTER OMELETTE. 

Reserve the best parts of the lobster for a 
salad, and chop up the bits from the feelers 
and claws ; put three ounces of butter in a 
pan, and in it brown the chopped lobster, 
two ounces of bread crumbs, a little grated 
cheese, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, 
then mix into this eight eggs, and let it set 
into an omelette. 



OMELETTES. 41 

65. — POTATO OMELETTE — ^WITHOUT EGGS. 

Well wash two pounds of good potatoes, 
well boiled or steamed, with two ounces of 
butter, pepper, and salt; put the mash in a 
hot frying-pan, with some butter, or good 
dripping, lajdng it smoothly ; fry until well 
browned ; turn it on the other side, adding 
a little more butter, or dripping, and fry as 
before ; both sides should be well browned, 
but not burnt or broken; serve with a 
little parsley on the top as a garnish. 

Very rich and delicious omelettes may be 
made with fresh mushrooms, very tender 
broad beans, or borage leaves, frying them 
in the usual way before mixing the eggs. 



EGGS. 
DIFFEKENT WAYS OF DRESSING. 

66. — EGGS — ^WTTH SAUCE. 

Cut in halves, lengthways, six hard-boiled 
eggs, placing them neatly on. a. d\^\N.\ tsss^^ 



1 



42 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

a rich butter sauce in the usual way, adding 
half a pound of finely-chopped and boiled 
spinach, mixing it well in the sauce ; boil 
three minutes ; take the sauce off the fire, 
and stir into it the yolks of two eggs, well 
whipped with a little cream and lemon* 
juice; pour it quickly into the dish with 
the hard-boiled eggs. This makes a very 
pretty dish, and very palatable. 

67. — EGGS — WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Cut in halves eight hard-boiled eggs, and 
place them in a heap on a small dish ; pour 
over them some very good butter sauce, 
with plenty of chopped capers in it, and 
flavoured with pepper, salt, and a pinch of 
cayenne. 

68. — EGGS — ^WITH SPINACH. 

Fry two pounds of boiled spinach with a 
good piece of butter, pepper, and salt ; lay 
them smootKly on a flat dish, fry some sip- 
pets of bread, and garnish the edge of the 
dish ; fry in butter, one by one, eight eggs^ 



Eoos. 43 

and place them carefully on the spinach 
without breaking the yolks. 

69.— EGGS — WTTH TOMATOES. 

Take three large tomatoes, slice them in 
halves, and put a little salt over them ; fry 
them on both sides in butter or oil, always 
preferring oil, as tomatoes take some time 
to fry, and butter browns very quickly, and 
often, if great care is not taken, will yield 
a bitter taste, from the tomatoes browning 
too quickly ; take them from the pan with 
a slice, and lay them on a dish carefully, 
pouring the butter or lard over them ; fry 
in butter or lard some eggs, and place ono 
egg upon each half tomato, and serve. This 
is a delicious way of dressing tomatoes, and 
care should be taken to choose only the 
tomatoes that are firm, and not in any way 
damaged. 

70. — EGG PISTO — A SPANISH BBEAKFA8T 

DISH. 

Scald two or three tomatoes, peel and cut 
them up, and put them into a frying-i^an 



44 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

with a good piece of butter, stirring them 
all the time over the fire, until rubbed into 
a sauce; well whip six eggs in a basin, 
with a little pepper and salt; pour them 
into the pan with the tomatoes, and stir 
quickly all the time until the egg is set ; 
turn it out into a dish, and heap it up 
lightly. 

71. — EGGS AND ONIONS. 

Slice finely, and fry lightly, a large 
Spanish onion, in three ounces of butter; 
add a spoonful of flour, stir it in with the 
fried onions for a few minutes, then mix 
with this half a pint of milk, and let it 
boil for half an hour ; pour it into a dish, 
and put six hard-boiled eggs, cut into quar- 
ters, lengthways, around it, and four pieces 
in the centre to fonn a star or any pattern 
preferred. 



I 



CROQUETES. 45 

CROQUETES. 

72. — SALMON CROQUETES. 

Chop up the remains of cold boiled sal- 
mon, some parsley, capers, and marjoram, 
mixing in some bread crumbs, pepper, and 
salt, rub in two ounces of butter, and 
moisten all with two eggs ; stir it all well, 
and make with this little flat cakes ; fry 
them in boiling lard or dripping a light 
brown ; serve them on a dish, and garnish 
with alternate rounds of beetroot and 
lemon. 

73. — TURBOT CROQUETES. 

Croquetes' of turbot, or any other de- 
scription of fish, are made in the same way 
as the above. 

74. — ITALIAN CROQUETES. 

Chop up a boiled sole, or any kind of 
boiled fish, removing carefully all the bones; 
mix with it some bread crumbs, finely 
chopped parsley, thyme, or marjoram, pep- 
per, salt, and two eggs. Make some good 



> 



46 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

pie crust with butter or lard; roll it out 
very thin, then place the stujaing upon it in 
little heaps, about the size of a walnut, and 
two inches apart ; fold the paste over the 
stuflSng, and cut each portion in squares or 
diamond shape with the pastry- wheel ; fry 
them of a light brown colour in plenty of 
boiling lard or dripping, not butter, and 
serve with salad. 

75. — OYSTER CROQUETES. 

Brown in butter two dozen oysters, roll 
them in bread crumbs, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and a pinch of marjoram ; dip them 
into whipped eggs, and fry them again in 
boiling lard to a nice colour ; heap up the 
croquetes on a dish, with fried parsley in 
the centre, and garnish with rounds of beet- 
root and hard-boiled eggs. 

76. — ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Pick clean some anchovies, removing the 
bones, and wash them well ; lay them on a 
dish, and sprinkle over them some chopped 
parsley, onions (spring ones preferred), a 



CROQUETES. 47 

few capers, and two bard-boiled eggs; or 
lay each ingredient separately in squares to 
form a pattern ; pour some oil and vinegar 
over all, and serve. This salad keeps good 
a month if bottled in a pickle bottle, and 
more oil and vinegar be added. 

77. — BLOATER SALAD. 

Broil some bloaters, remove the skin, 
heads, and bones, and divide them in pieces. 
Slice some boiled potatoes and cucumber, 
and put them with the bloaters on the same 
dish, pouring oil, vinegar, pepper, and mus- 
tard, mixed together, over all, and serve. 
This salad should be prepared quickly, as 
it must be sent to table quite hot. 



VEGETABLES. 

78. — STUFFED LETTUCE — ^1 LA BAYONAISE. 

Parboil two lettuces without cutting 
them; and lay them open on a dish or 
plate, leaf by leaf, without breaking them. 
Make a stuflSng with a quarter of a pound 



► 



50 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK, 

parsley, and some chopped capers, stirring 
it all until of a light brown colour ; adil a 
tablespoonful of flour, and brown also ; mix 
half a pint of milk into it, and boil for a 
few minutes. Serve the cauliflower in a 
vegetable dish, and strain the sauce over it. 

84. — SPINACH — ^PORTUGUESE WAY. 

Boil two pounds of spinach in plenty of 
water for three minutes only; strain and 
chop them well, put them in a frying-pan 
with three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful 
of flour, pepper, and salt ; stir over the fire 
until nearly fried, then add a tablespoonful 
of milk or cream, and stir for five minutes 
more ; serve in a vegetable dish with sip- 
pets of fried bread arranged over the 
spinach in a pattern such as a star, a fiower, 
leaves, or any device taste may suggest. 

85. — ARTICHOKES — BAKED OR STEWED. 

Well wash six artichokes, cutting the tips 
oflf; then press them to open the leaves ; mix 
together bread crumbs, plenty of parsley, 
one clove of garlic or shallot finely chopped. 



VEGETABLES. 51 

pepper, salt, thyme or marjoram, and with 
this stuflSng, fill in between the leaves of 
the artichoke and cover over so as to form 
a head or crown; place the artichokes in a 
deep baking dish, and into each pour a few 
drops of salad oil or hot butter; half fill 
the dish with water ; bake in a moderately 
hot oven until the leaves pull off easily, and 
nearly all the water Jjas been consumed, 
leaving a thick gravy, which should be 
poured over the artichokes when dished. 

Should the artichokes be preferred 
stewed, prepare them in the same way, 
and stew in a caserole instead of baking. 

86. — STUFFED CUCUMBER. 

Proceed as for stuflfed vegetable mar- 
row (80). 

87. — FRENCH BEAN SALAD. 

Boil sliced French beans and serve with 
oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt over them 
while hot ; this is an excellent way of pre- 
paring French beans for a cold dinner. 



\ 



52 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

88. — STEWED VEGETABLES. 

Fry in three ounces of butter to a light 
brown, some spring onions, parsley, and two 
tomatoes cut up ; add a spoonful of flour, 
mixing into this one pint of water, and pour 
into a stew-pan ; cut one pound of pum|5kin, 
gourd, or vegetable marrow in pieces, half a 
pound of French beans in halves, half a 
pint of shelled green peas, a sprig of fresh 
mint, one capsicum, and put all these vege- 
tables in the stew-pan ; add pepper and salt, 
and stew gently until thoroughly cooked. 
As the pumpkin, gourd, or marrow requires 
less time to cook than the other vegetables, 
they should be put into the stew an hour 
after the others. This stew requires from 
two to three hours' cooking. 

89. — STEWED ENDIVES AND CELERY. 

Put into a small stew-pan two endives cut 
in five pieces each, one head of celery in 
pieces two inches long ; mix into this one 
tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of fresh 
butter, half a pint of milk mixed with 



VEGETABLES. 53 

pounded almonds, pepper, and salt, and 
simmer until thoroughly done ; mix the yolk 
of an egg and cream with a few drops of 
lemon 'juice into the sauce before dishing. 
Vegetables dressed in this way are very 
wholesome and suitable for fish dinners. 

90. — POTATOES — WITH TOMATOES. 

Slice some raw potatoes, fry them in lard 
or dripping and put them in a vegetable 
dish ; cut up some tomatoes, stir them in the 
pan over the fire, with the fat remaining 
after the potatoes have been fried, until they 
are rubbed into a sauce ; add pepper and salt, 
and pour it over the potatoes. 

91. — TURNIPS — WITH SAUCE. 

Turnips are very excellent dressed this 
way : peel and boil some good, tender, and 
very white turnips, cut them in quarters, 
place in a vegetable dish, and pour over 
them some rich butter sauce. 



^— ^ 



I 



54 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 

92. — BREAD AND CHERBY PUDDING. 

Soak three-quarters of a pound of bread 
cut in thin slices, in two pints of milk, 
adding three ounces of butter, and cover for 
ten minutes; beat four eggs with some 
moist sugar and a teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon and mix into the soaked bread ; 
butter a pudding dish, and having stoned 
one pound of very ripe blapk cherries, place 
them at the bottom of the pudding dish ; 
add the bread mixture and sift some pow- 
dered cinnamon over it. Bake dry, and 
deep brown. 

93.— BREAD AND DAMSON PUDDING. 

This pudding is made in the same manner 
as the preceding, with this only diflference, 
that the damsons are stewed with sugar 
first and then stoned, and put into a mould 
instead of a pudding dish, and bake well. 

94. — SPANISH CUSTARD. 

Put in an enamelled saucepan one quart 
of milk, four teaspoonfuls of flour, the rind 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 55 

of half a lemon, quarter pound of loaf sugar, 
and a small piece of cinnamon ; mix and stir 
it well with a wooden spoon, and boil three 
minutes, taking care to stir all the time; re- 
move from the fire and take away the lemon 
peel and cinnamon ; mix into it the yolks of 
eight eggs well beaten up, pour it into a flat 
dish or in a glass one, and allow it to get 
perfectly cold, sprinkle some moist sugar 
over it, and with a red hot salamander, or 
small flat iron, bum the sugar on the custard 
as evenly as possible ; split some savoy 
cakes and place them around the edge of the 
dish, ornamenting the centre by forming a 
star, a leaf, or a flower, or indeed any pattern 
or device taste may suggest, by cutting the 
savoy biscuits into little pieces or shapes. 
This custard will be found a very elegant 
dish for dmners or suppers. 

95. — PORTUGUESE RICE. 

Into three pints of milk put half a pound 
of rice, the rind of half a lemon, half a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, and about half a 
pound of lump sugar, and simmer until the 



» 



56 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

rice is very well cooked, thick and soft, 
generally taking two hours to become so ; 
stir it frequently that it may not bum ; 
remove the saucepan from the fire, let it 
stand five minutes for the rice to swell, 
then mix into it the yolks OTdy of six eggs 
well whipped, without setting the saucepan 
on the fire as the egg would curdle ; turn it 
out into a flat dish, or better still a glass 
one, and sift some powdered cinnamon over 
it all and serve. This rice will keep a week 
and is equally good cold or hot. 

96. — SCALDED SPONGE CAKES. 

Lay six sponge cakes in a pudding dish, 
sprinkle a little cinnamon or grated nutmeg 
and a very little sugar, pour a pint of boil- 
ing milk over them and serve at once. 
This is a very nice substitute for a pudding, 
is very light and delicate, fit for the invalid, 
the nursery, or in a general way, and is 
very quickly prepared. 

97. — BREAD FRITTERS. 

Cut two French rolls into five rounds 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 57 

each, and moisten with a Uttle milk and 
sugar. Well beat up four eggs, and dip the 
rounds of bread thoroughly in the eggs. 
Fry them in boiling oil to a light brown 
colour very evenly. Warm in a small 
saucepan some honey, adding water only 
suificient to thin it a little ; dip the fritters 
into it, and lay them on a dish, pouring the 
remainder of the warm honey over them. 
If honey is not at hand, make a thick 
syrup with a pound of sugar, some lemon 
or Seville orange rind, and a piece of cin- 
namon in one pint of water, and boil for 
half an hour, using it the same way as the 
honey. 

98. — MOOBISH FRITTERS. 

Put half a pound of fine bread crumbs 
into a basin with a grated apple and lemon 
peel, two ounces of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of brandy, three well-beaten eggs, and milk 
enough to moisten it to the consistency of 
porridge, and mix all well. Pour spoonfuls of 
this mixture into a frying-pan with boiliss^^ 



58 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

lard, so as to form KtiJe cakes, and brown 
lightly; place them on a dish, sift some 
sugar and cinnamon over them, and serve hot. 

99. — INDIAN COBN FRITTERS. 

Put into a basin one pound of coarse 
Indian corn flour, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, arid a teaspoonful of pounded 
aniseed; mix into it sujficient boiling water 
to make it the consistency of mashed 
potatoes, and make it up into small cakes. 
Fry in boiling lard, place them on a dish, 
and sift sugar and cinnamon over them. 
Serve hot. 

100. — APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel and cut some apples into rounds, 
removing the core, and soak them in a 
mixture made with sherry wine, a little 
sugar, and powdered cinnamon, just sufficient 
to cover them, for two hours. Make a batter 
with flour, egg, and milk, well whipped to 
the consistency of cream; take the apple 
rounds from the mixture, and dip them in 
this batter, throw them one by one into 



PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 59 

boiling lard, letting them brown lightly; 
sift some sugar, with a little cinnamon, or, if 
preferred, pour a little hot honey or syrup 
over them, and serve. 

101. — BAKED APPLES — WITH SYRITP. 

Wash and scoop some large baking apples, 
put them in a deep pie dish, with moist 
sugar (at the rate of one pound to every 
dozen apples), a little cinnamon, cloves, or 
nutmeg, half fill the dish with water, and 
bake in a hot oven until the apples are 
thoroughly done, and browned, the syrup 
remaining thick ; let them stand until cold, 
and dish them in a glass dish, pouring the 
syrup over them. 

102. — STEWED QUINCE. 

Peel and cut into quarters some quinces, 
removing the core, and put them in a 
preserving pan with some loaf sugar, and 
water suflScient to just cover them; let 
them boil gently until they are quite tender, 
and the fruit turns a deep red colour \ the 



60 THE CONTINENTAL FISH COOK. 

syrup should remain rather thick ; put them 
away until cold, and serve in a glass dish. 

103. — LUNCHEON TOAST. 

Toast a round of new bread without crust, 
sprinkle over it a little cinnamon, powdered 
aniseed, and sifted sugar, in equal quanti- 
ties; pour some sherry or port wine by 
degrees into the toast until well soaked. 
The bread should be quite hot when served, 
and will be found very useful for persons 
suffering from weak digestions, or who, 
having small and delicate appetites, can 
take but small quantities of food at a time. 



INDEX. 





SOUPS AND POTAGF..S. 


i 


JStO. 




PAOK 


1. 


Lentil Potage 


5 


2. 


Haricot Bean Potage 


6 


3. 


Spanish Peas Soup or Potage 


7 


4. 


Macaroni Soup 


7 


5. 


Vermicelli Soup . 


7 


6. 


Barcelona Vegetable Soup . 


8 


7. 


Bread Soup 


8 


8. 


Another Bread Soup 


9 


9. 


Cod's Head and Rice 


9 


10. 


Prawn Soup 


10 


11. 


Eel Soup 


10 


12. 


Fish Soup 

FISH. 


11 


13. 


Boiled Salmon 


12 


14. 


Pickled Salmon — Spanish way 


12 


15. 


Baked Salmon 


la 


16. 


Pried Salmon — with Tomatoes 


13 


17. 


Bed Mullets— broiled 


14 


18. 


Red Mullets— baked 


15 


19. 


Red Mullets — eu papQlotes . 


15 


20. 


Red MuUets— with tomato sauce 


15 


21. 


Pickled Red Mullets 


16 


22. 


Soles — Andalusian way 


16 


23. 


Soles — in a plainer way 


17 


24. 


Baked Soles 


18 


25. 


Soles — a la Russe . 


18 


26. 


Stuffed Salmon Bream 


19 


27. 


Broiled Salmon Bream 


20 


28. 


Stewed Salmon Bream 


20 


29. 


Gurnets . 


21 



G 



62 



INDEX. 



i 



NO. 

30. 


• 

Eels — with mashed potatoes 


PAGE 
21 


31. 


Eels — ^with walnut sauce 


22 


32. 


Stewed Eels 


22 


33. 


Fricassee of Eels . 


23 


34. 


Eels— with tomato sauce 


23 


35. 


Pickled Eels 


23 


36. 


Pickled Eels — a.Tiother way . 


24 


37. 


Skate — k la Catalana ' . 


24 


38. 


Skate — with Jerusalem artichokes 


24 


39. 


Skate — with mushrooms 


26 


40. 


To Dress Skate with Green Peas 


26 


41. 


Stewed Mackerel . 


26 


42. 


Pickled Mackerel . 


26 


43. 


Pickled Mackerel — another way 


26 


44. 


To Dress Dry Cod or Ling Fish 


27 


45. 


To Boil Cod or Ling Fish . 


28 


46. 


Codfish Pudding . 


29 


47. 


Fricassee of Codfish 


30 


48. 


Croquetes of Codfish 


31 


49. 


Codfish — ^with capsicums 


31 


60. 


Broiled Codfish — ^for breakfast 


32 


61. 


Baked Codfish — either fresh or salt 


32 


62. 


Fish Balls 


33 


63. 


Dry Codfish — with rice 


34 


64. 


Dry Codfish— stewed with tomatoes 


35 


66. 


StuflTed Sprats 


35 


66. 


Another Way of Dressing Sprats 

OMELETTKa. 


36 


67. 


Spinach Omelette . 


37 


68. 


Lettuce Omelette . 


38 


69. 
60. 


Asparagus Omelette 
Artichoke Omelette 


38 
38 


^Z 


A Common Omelette 


39 



INDEX. 63 

NO. PAGE 

62. Cheese Omelette . . .39 

63. Shrimp or Oyster Omelette . . 40 

64. Lobster Omelette . . .40 
66. Potato Omelette — ^without eggs . 41 

EGGS. DIFFERENT WATS OF DRESSING. 

66. Eggs — ^with sauce. 

67. Eggs — with caper sauce 

68. Eggs — ^with spmach 

69. Eggs — with tomatoes 

70. Egg Pisto (a Spanish breakfast dish) 

71. Eggs and Onions . 

CROQUETBS. 



72. Salmon Croquetes 

78. Turbot Croquetes 

74. Italian Croquetes . 

75. Oyster Croquetes . 

76. Anchovy Salad 

77. Bloater Salad 

VEGETABLES. 

[ 78. Stuffed Lettuce (k la Bayonaise) 

1 79. Stuffed Cabbage . 

80. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow . 

81. Baked Spanish Onions 

82. Fried Carrots — (Belgian way) 

83. Boiled Cauliflower — with sauce 

84. Spinach (Portuffuese way) . 

85. .^artichokes — bs3:ed or stewed 

86. Stuffed Cucumber 

87. French Bean Salad 

88. Stewed Vegetables 

89. Stewed Endive and Celery . 



41 
42 
42 
43 
43 
44 



45 
45 
45 
46 
46 
47 



47 
48 
48 
49 
49 
49 
60 
50 
51 
51 
52 
52 



64 INDEX. 

NO. 

90. Potatoes — ^with toinatoes 

91. Turnips — with sauce 

PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 

92. Bread and Cheny Pudding 

93. Bread and Damson Pudding 

94. Spanish Custard . 

95. Portuguese Rice . . 

96. Scalded Sponge Cakes 

97. Bread Fritters 

98. Moorish Fritters . 

99. Indian Com Fritters 

100. Apple Fritters 

101. Baked Apples — with sjrrup 

102. Stewed Quince 

103. Luncheon Toast . 



> 



\ 







^Mmf^ 



