

sfo/tffo^ 






TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Crown 8vo, pp. iii.-140, cloth, 5s., 

W A TER-ANALYSIS. 

A PBACTICAL TREATISE ON THE EXAMINATION OF 
POET ABLE WATER. 

" Essential to e?ery Chemist whose duties may, by any possibility, include the 
analysis of water." Chemical News. 



Crown 8vo, pp. viii.-72, cloth, 5s., 

MILK-ANALYSIS. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE EXAMINATION OF MILK 
AND ITS DERIVATIVES, CREAM, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 

" Of the highest value to the practical analyst." Pall Mall Gazette. 
" May be safely accepted as an authority on the subject." Boston Journal of 
Science. 



LONDON : TRUBNER & CO., 57 & 59 LUDGATE HILL. 




TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA: 



A PRACTICAL TREATISE 

ON THE 

ANALYSIS OF TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, CHOCOLATE, 
MATE (PARAGUAY TEA), ETC. 



V* 

J.? ALFRED ^ANKLYN, M.R.C.S. 

CORRESPONDING MEMBER OF THE ROYAL BAVARIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, 

PUBLIC ANALYST FOR BUCKINGHAMSHIRE, BUCKINGHAM, 

AND HIGH WYCOMBE. 



10 



LONDON: 
TRUBNER & CO., 57 & 59 LUDGATE HILL. 

1874. 
[All rights reserved. ] 



PREFACE. 



THIS book is intended to form one of a series of Manuals 
for the use of Public Analysts under the Adulteration Act, 
and in writing it I have put forward the results of my own 
experience and observation. For much of the material, I 
am, however, indebted to the labours of others. To Peligot, 
whose work on Tea is more than thirty years old, I. am largely 
indebted, as will be apparent to my readers. Zoller's paper 
in Liebig's "Annalen" in the year 1871,1 have likewise 
quoted. To Mr Allen of Sheffield, as will likewise be 
observed, I am indebted for the titration of tannin described 
in its proper place. The ash of coffee has likewise been 
investigated by Mr Allen. 

The part of the book relating to Tea has been in type since 
the beginning of May. To this circumstance the absence of 
all allusion to some very recent papers by Mr Allen and 
Mr Wigner is to be ascribed. In a general way I regard 
the most recent investigations as being favourable to my 
views as expressed in this book. 

In the part devoted to Coffee, I have largely availed my- 
self of the report by Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell, 
published by the Chemical Society in the year 1857. 

In preparing the section on Cocoa and Chocolate, I have 

b 



VI - - --PREFACE. 

received great assistance from Mr John Holm, to whose 
excellent lecture on Cocoa and its Manufacture, given before 
the Society of Arts early this year, and published in a 
separate form, I beg to refer my readers. 

To Mr William Bettel, who has worked my new Tea-Assay 
in my own laboratory, and whose very careful analysis of 
cocoa-ash is published in Part III., I am under great obli- 
gations. The determinations of tea-extract marked W. B. 
were done by Mr Bettel for me. 

I am the more careful to make this acknowledgment of 
Mr Bettel's work, since the Chemical Society has recently 
disgraced itself by its refusal to receive him as a Fellow ; 
and since the Local Government Board has refused to con- 
firm his appointment to the office of Public Analyst of 
Middlesbofough, on the ground that his chemical ability was 
not sufficiently established. 

It is not a novelty for either the Society or the Board 
to blunder ; and in rejecting Mr Bettel, the Society has 
satirised the election of the great majority of its Fellows, and 
the Board the majority of its acts of confirmation. 



117 CHARLOTTE STREET, FITZROY SQUARF, 
LONDON, 8th July 1874. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAET I. TEA. 
CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION, 

CHAPTER II. 

THE ASH, 



CHAPTER III. 

THE EXTRACT : AND THE TEA- ASSAY, 13 

CHAPTER IV. 

" FREE AND ALBUMINOID " AMMONIA IN TEA-EXTRACT. ESTIMA- 
TION OF NITROGEN IN TEA, . . . ' . . . .18 

CHAPTER V. 

THEINE, 22 



CHAPTER VI. 

TANNIN IN TEA, .26 

CHAPTER VII. 

CALCULATION OF RESULTS, 28 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

PART II. 

PAGE 

COFFEE,- . .......... 31 

PART III. 
COCOA AND CHOCOLATE, ...... .43 



PART IV. 
, OB PARAGUAY TEA, . . . . . .58 



TEA-ANALYSIS. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

TEA, as it occurs in commerce, is the prepared leaves of the 
tea-plant (Thea sinensis) ; and the different varieties of tea 
depend chiefly on the age of the leaf at the time of gathering, 
and on the manner of its preparation. 

The tea-plant appears to be indigenous to China, but it 
also flourishes in Japan and in the Himalaya. The plant is 
described as a shrub growing to from four to thirty feet in 
height, and as usually five or six feet in height. 

The root of the plant is irregular and divided j the stem 
also divides into very numerous and irregular branches. The 
leaves are alternate. The flowers are white, and bear some 
resemblance to wild roses. They are usually about an inch 
in diameter. The plant is an evergreen, and the flowering is 
continued very far on into the winter. 

The leaves present the following characters : They bear 
some resemblance to the willow, being of course of various 
sizes. The border is serrated more regularly than the willow, 
but the serration just stops short of the stalk. 



2 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

The venation is said to be very characteristic. The veins 
run out from the midrib almost parallel to one another ; but 
before the border of the leaf is reached, they alter their course, 
turning so as to leave a bare space just within the border of 
the leaf. 

In making an examination of a sample of tea, so as to 
ascertain whether these characters are present, it will be found 
convenient to pour hot water on the leaves so as to soften 
them, and spread them out ; otherwise considerable difficulty 
might be experienced owing to the brittleness of the dry leaf. 

The tea of commerce is not subject to much irregularity in 
its hygrometric condition. There is usually about 8 per cent, 
of moisture in it; and this may fall to 6 per cent, or rise to 
10 per cent. 

Tea is a complex mixture of a variety of substances. 
Being a leaf, it necessarily contains some woody fibre, the 
quantity of which, as determined by Mulder, is 17'1 per 
cent, in green tea, and 28 '3 per cent, in black tea. Accord- 
ing to Peligot, whose admirable investigation of tea is a 
chemical classic, there is also a large quantity of legumen, a 
nitrogenous substance which is sometimes called vegetable 
caseine. The percentage of this substance is given by Peligot 
as about 15 in tea in its usual air-dried condition. Woody 
fibre, legumen, together with some tannic acid, colouring 
matter, and a certain quantity of the ash, make up mainly the 
portion of the leaf which is not soluble in boiling water, 

Tannic acid, probably of a peculiar kind, theine, which is 
the alkaloid of tea, dextrine, glucose, gum, and a portion of the 
ash, pass into solution when tea is infused. An essential oil, 
present in very small quantities, but undoubtedly very potent 
in its effects, passes also into the infusion. 



INTRODUCTION. .3 

The tea of commerce is accused of three Descriptions of 
sophistication. It is said to be sometimes mixed with leaves 
which are not tea ; sometimes it is sanded, and adulterated 
with a variety of mineral substances ; and sometimes it is more 
or less completely spent. 

Each trade has its own besetting adulteration; and, as in 
the milk trade the prevalent sophistications are watering and 
skimming, so in the tea trade the besetting malpractice is 
the selling of partially-exhausted tea, and the main efforts 
of the tea-analyst should be directed to this form of adultera- 
tion. 

The mixing of foreign leaves with tea, and the mineral 
adulterations, are comparatively trivial ; but nevertheless, the 
public analyst is frequently called upon to deal with them. 

Foreign leaves are detected by their botanical characters, 
and by the absence of the special structural marks which have 
been already described. 

Chemically, as will be explained in next chapter, an 
examination of the ash affords some criterea which may be 
utilised for the purpose of identifying the tea leaf. 

Peligot has also pointed out that tea leaves differ from 
other leaves by their extraordinary richness in nitrogen. In 
different varieties of tea dried at 110 C he found 

Percentage of Nitrogen. 

Pekoe, 6-58 

Gunpowder, 6 '62 

Souchong, 615 

Assam, ... . . 510 

The manufactured tea leaf is, indeed, by the process of 
manufacture rendered more nitrogenous than the fresh leaves 
of the plant. In these Peligot found 4*37 per cent, of 



4: TEA-ANALYSIS. 

nitrogen, the leaves having been analysed in the dry state, 
as dried at 100 C. During the preparation to which the 
leaves of the tea-plant are subjected in order to fit them for 
the market, a quantity of juice is expressed from them ; and 
the rise in nitrogen in the prepared leaf is accounted for on 
the supposition that this juice is not so rich in nitrogen as 
the remainder of the leaf which is left behind. 

If the tea leaf be unique in containing an exceedingly high 
percentage of nitrogen, it is obvious that a determination of 
nitrogen in tea might be useful as a method of identification, 
and accordingly I shall devote a portion of a chapter to a 
description of the determination of nitrogen in tea, and 
organic substances in general. 

A shorter and easier operation is the determination of 
albuminoid ammonia in tea-extract ; and moreover, the data 
so obtained appear to be characteristic of tea. I shall 
accordingly devote some space to this subject. 



CHAPTER II 

THE ASH. 

IN the common kinds of wood, such as oak, deal, &c., the 
proportion of ash is a few tenths per cent. Thus, taking 
wood in its ordinary air-dried condition, when it contains 
some 20 or 30 per cent, of moisture, Sprengel found 0'36 per 
cent, of ash in beech wood, and 0-20 per cent, of ash in the 
wood of the oak, and I have found 0*37 per cent, of ash in 
common deal. 

Leaves, on the other hand, contain ten, twenty, or even 
thirty times as much mineral matter ; and doubtless there is 
a connection between this abundance of mineral matter and 
the active chemical changes which take place in the leaves 
during the growth of the plant. 

The following determinations of the ash in leaves dried 
completely at 100 C were made in my laboratory last year. 
The leaves were gathered towards the end of August : 

Percentage of ash 
in dried leaves. 

Beech, . . . . 4-52 
Bramble, .... 4-53 
Elder, ;; . . . 10-67 
Gooseberry, *-. ; . . 13-50 
Hawthorn, . . . 8'05 

Plum, .... 9-90 
Willow, . . . . 9-34 



6 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

To these may be appended determinations of the ash of 
Paraguay tea and of common tea, viz. 

Paraguay tea, 6-28 

Common tea, 5 -92 

In tea, therefore, as in leaves in general, the ash amounts 
to a considerable percentage, and a chemical examination 
of the ash forms an important part of the analysis of tea. 

The proportion of ash in tea is tolerably constant. 

In Peligot's paper, published more than thirty years ago, 
the ash was given as follows : 

Ash per cent. 

Black tea (Souchong), . . . 5-5 

Green tea (Gunpowder), ... 5*5 

Another kind of tea, 60 

Pekoe (black), 5-3 

A more recent investigation by Zbller (Liebig's " Annalen," 
May 1871) gives the ash in air-dried tea, received direct 
from the plantations in the Himalaya, as being 5 '63 per cent. ; 
and my own analyses, made during the last and the present 
year, have furnished the following results : 

Percentage of ash 
in air-dried tea. 

Common tea, .:'. -. ' .* . 5'63 

Civil Service tea, ... . 5'56 

Horniman's tea, 5'99 

Mandarin's tea (at eight shillings per 

lb.), 5-3 

Orange Pekoe (at five shillings per lb.), 5' 84 

6-06 

Green tea (four shillings and sixpence 

perlb.), 5*86 

Very fine Himalayan tea (" Queen 

Elizabeth"), .... 5-00 

Himalayan tea (Pekoe), . . . 6'06 

Himalayan tea (Pekoe Souchong), . 5 '37 



THE ASH, 7 

From all which it appears that the range of variation of the 
ash of tea is from five to six, and that genuine tea rarely 
yields so little as five per cent, of ash, and rarely so much as 
six per cent, of ash. 

The method by which the ash is determined is by incine- 
ration. A weighed quantity of the tea (from one to two 
grammes), in its ordinary commercial state, is burnt in a 
platinum crucible, and the resulting ash weighed.. By observ- 
ing a few simple precautions very constant and accurate results 
are attainable. The crucible should be clean and bright (it 
may be polished with charcoal-powder); the lid should fit 
accurately ; and an iron triangle, covered with tobacco-pipe in 
a well-known manner, may be employed to support the crucible 
during the ignition. The operation is commenced by igniting 
the empty crucible, which is then allowed to cool, being placed 
for that purpose either on a clean piece of porcelain, or else on a 
clean piece of iron. Immediately on the crucible becoming cold, 
it is weighed. The one or two grammes of tea is then put into 
the crucible, and the crucible with its contents is then weighed. 
It is then ignited over either a spirit-lamp, or else a good 
Bunsen burner, or else in a muffle, the contents being stirred 
up with a platinum wire. When the ignition is complete, the 
crucible is covered with its lid, let cool, and then immediately 
weighed. If there be any doubt as to the completeness of 
the ignition, the crucible is again ignited ; and if there be no 
difference in weight, the ignition is thereby proved to be com- 
plete. As will be obvious, in order to have accurate results 
it is an indispensable condition that the crucible should be in 
the same condition when it is weighed empty and when 
weighed charged with the ash, and this is insured by the pre- 
liminary ignition and rapid weighing as above described. 



8 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

As has been mentioned, genuine tea, as brought by hand 
direct from China, or from the Himalaya, or such as is a fair 
commercial article, does not yield less than 5 per cent, of ash, 
or sensibly more than 6 per cent. The analyst will, however, 
meet with tea in commerce which contains 1 3 per cent, of ash, 
and even more than that. Such tea is sophisticated, and 
usually will be found to be sanded. Indeed, it is probable 
that the true ash of the absolutely clean tea leaf, in the 
ordinary air-dried condition, is about 5 per cent. ; whilst the 
6 per cent., or approximations to 6 per cent, of ash, which are 
sometimes met with, are probably due to a slight but 
unavoidable sanding of the leaves, which it would be exceed- 
ingly unfair to regard as an adulteration. 

When the ash much exceeds 6 per cent., the first question 
to be answered is whether that is accidental, or whether the 
high yield of ash would be maintained if a large quantity of 
the sample were incinerated. The burning up of a large 
quantity of tea is inconvenient, and the following operation 
may be conveniently substituted for it. 

50 or 100 grammes of tea is weighed out (it is quite 
accurate enough if the weighing be within half a gramme) and 
boiled with about ten times its weight of water in a porcelain 
dish or a wide beaker. This boiling will wash the sand off the 
leaves, and the sand will sink to the bottom, whilst the leaves 
float in the liquid. When the liquid has been allowed to cool 
sufficiently, the leaves may be removed with the hand, and the 
liquid, together with the sand, may then be poured on a filter. 
The sand is then to be washed, dried, ignited in a platinum 
dish, and weighed. In this manner the sand yielded by 50 
or 100 grammes may be actually weighed. 

By way of example, I will cite an analysis of a sample of 
Caper tea which I was called upon to examine. The percen- 



THE ASH. 9 

tage of ash determined upon 3 grammes of the tea was 15-49. 
In a second experiment 50 grammes was boiled with water, 
and the sand got out of the leaves washed, dried, ignited, 
and weighed. The sand weighed 4'181 grammes, equal to 
8.3C2 per cent, of sand, which agrees sufficiently well with 
the determination of sand by the ignition-process. 

The composition of the ash of genuine tea has been carefully 
studied. In Zoller's paper, which I have already quoted, will 
be found a very elaborate analysis of the ash yielded by 
Himalayan tea. Zoller's numbers are the following : 

Potash, 39.22 

Soda, 0-65 

Magnesia, ....... 6 '47 

Lime, ........ 4*24 

Oxide of iron, 4-38 

Protoxide of manganese, 1-03 

Phosphoric acid, 14'55 

Sulphuric acid, trace 

Chlorine, 0-81 

Silica, . . 4-35 

Carbonic acid, 24-30 

100-00 

This analysis is especially important, inasmuch as the tea 
wljich furnished the ash was of guaranteed purity : and no 
question of the possibility of sophistication could arise. 

On inspecting the analysis, it will be observed that tea-ash 
contains a quantity of iron, and likewise some manganese. The 
presence of manganese is indeed so marked in tea-ash, that on 
subsequent treatment of the ash with water, I have myself 
obtained a deep- green solution of the manganate. Owing to 
the manganese in it, tea-ash also always evolves chlorine 
very perceptibly when it is treated with hydrochloric acid. 



10 TEA- ANALYSIS. 

Tea-ash is completely (or very nearly completely) soluble 
in hydrochloric acid. Most samples of commercial tea will, 
however, leave a slight insoluble residue of sand when the 
ash from them is subjected to the action of an acid. If 
necessary, this residue may be dried, ignited, and weighed. 
It should, of course, be trifling in amount : and here again, 
I cannot forbear repeating the caution not to mistake an 
accidental fragment of quartz in the gramme that is being 
incinerated for a serious adulteration of the sample. 

If a sample of tea should yield only the normal percentage 
of ash, and at the same time contain a considerable quantity 
of silica, such a combination of characters would afford the 
strongest evidence of sophistication. 

This will be evident, since the tea-ash is an essential part of 
the tea ; and if a part of the tea-ash be absent, the sample must 
have been deprived of at least the corresponding quantity 
of tea. 

Spent tea leaves contain less ash than genuine tea : accord- 
ing to Zoller they contain 3 '06 parts of ash in 100 parts of 
the completely dried spent leaves. 

When the tea-ash is deficient, the explanation may there- 
fore be that genuine tea has been more or less replaced by 
spent tea leaves. 

If the analysis of tea-ash be referred to, it will be seen that 
a considerable proportion of the ash must be soluble in water. 
More than one-half of the ash should be soluble in water. 

For practical purposes, I should not recommend a complete 
analysis of tea-ash, but I should very strongly recommend 
determination of the ratio of soluble to insoluble portions of 
the ash. 

Such a determination is made by boiling the ash several 



THE ASH. 11 

times with a little water, filtering, washing the precipitate on 
the filter, drying the precipitate, igniting it, and weighing it. 

The weight of the insoluble part of the ash may then be 
subtracted from the weight of the entire ash, and in that 
manner both insoluble ash and soluble ash will be arrived at. 

The following determinations of the quantities of " soluble 
ash " and " insoluble ash," in 100 parts of various kinds of 
completely dried leaves, will be of interest here : 



Name of leaf. 


Soluble 
ash. 


Insoluble 
ash. 




2-00 


2-52 


Bramble, . 


1-84 


2-69 


Elder, 


3'19 


7-48 


Gooseberry, 


7-83 


5-67 


Hawthorn, 


3-78 


4-27 


Plum, 


5-66 


4-24 


Willow, . 


4-16 


5-18 


Paraguay tea, . 


4-22 


2-06 


Common tea, . 


3-55 


2-37 



In spent tea leaves the ratio of soluble to insoluble ash 
must be very different from what it is in genuine tea. 
Zoller's analysis of the spent leaves shows this very strikingly. 
Zoller's figures are 



Potash, 

Soda, . . . . 

Magnesia, . 

Lime, .... 

Oxide of iron, 

Protoxide of manganese, 

Chlorine, . 

Phosphoric acid, 

Sulphuric acid, 

Silica, 

Carbonic acid, 



100-00 



12 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

It is easy to see that an ash of this composition cannot be 
very soluble in water. 

In conclusion, I will mention the results of an experiment 
of my own, made with the object of determining whether the 
short stalks which are met with in every sample of genuine 
tea differ, as to their yield of ash, from the rest of the leaf. 
I carefully picked out a quantity of stalk, and determined the 
ash in it, and found no difference between the percentage of 
ash in the stalks and that in the entire sample of tea. 



CHAPTER III. 



THE EXTRACT : AND THE TEA-ASSAY. 

THE part of the tea which we really use being that which 
passes into the infusion viz., the extract of tea it is 
natural to look to the extract itself as affording the directest 
evidence of the quality and the genuineness of a sample of 
tea. We may regard the extract both quantitatively and 
qualitatively, and from the former point of view are led to 
the tea-assay, or determination of the weight of tea-extract 
which a given weight of tea is capable of yielding. 

In Peligot's admirable paper on tea, we find determina- 
tions of tea-extract, the author being quite alive to the 
practical importance of such a test. I quote Peligot's results 
from his paper : 

BLACK TEA. 

Parts soluble in Boiling Water, 
the Tea being taken 

Dry. In its ordinary 
condition. 

" Souchong fin," 457 40'3 

46-0 407 

Souchong ordinaire, . . 41'8 37'3 

40-3 36-0 

Pekoe, 34'6 31'3 

. . 38'1 34-5 

Pekoe orange, 487 44'5 

. . . 46-8 428 



14 TEA- ANALYSIS. 



Parts soluble in Boiling Water, 
the Tea being taken 

Dry. In its ordinary 
condition. 





42-8 


39-0 


Congo, . 


40-9 


36-8 


Congo bon, 


45-8 


41-5 




45-0 


407 


Bohea, 


44-4 


39-8 


Caper, 


39-3 


35-8 


Assam, 


45'4 


417 


The Java, 


35-2 


327 


Pekoe ordinaire, 


41-5 


38-0 



GREEN TEA. 

Poudre a Canon, , . . . 51'9 48'5 

J ".-' .' . 50-2 46-9 

Imperial,.' . V . . . 43'1 39'6 

47-9 44-0 

Hyson, . . . . . 477 43-8 

Hyson fin, . . ' . . . 46'9 43-1 

Schoulang, . . . . V " . 45 '9 42'3 

Hyson Skin, . . . ; . , 43'5 39'8 

Toukay, . . . . / . . 42-2 38'4 

These results were arrived at by the employment of a valid, 
but rather inconvenient method. Peligot weighed out ten 
grammes of tea, boiled it with water so long as anything 
dissolved out, and afterwards dried up the exhausted tea 
leaves, drying at first at low temperatures, and then at higher 
temperatures, and finally weighed the exhausted leaves. The 
loss in weight is the weight of the tea-extract : care being 
taken to weigh the original tea and the exhausted tea leaves 
in the same state of dryness. The results, as will be observed, 
are stated both on the perfectly dry tea, and on the tea in its 
ordinary air-dried or commercial condition. 



THE EXTRACT : AND THE TEA- ASS AY. 15 

Instead of weighing tea-leaves before and after extraction, 
and taking the difference in weight as the weight of the 
extract, there is another obvious process, viz., evaporating 
down the extract to dryness, and weighing it. Peligot tested 
his method by comparing, in one or more instances, its results 
with results got by the other process, and found them to be 
concordant. I have likewise made experiments, and deter- 
mined the tea-extract by both processes, and got the same 
result. There is, therefore, no question of the validity of the 
method ; but, as chemists will readily understand, it is very 
tedious and troublesome. The drying up of the exhausted 
leaves, and the getting of them into the same hygroscopic 
condition as the original tea, presents considerable practical 
difficulties. 

The evaporation of the infusion to dryness, and the weighing 
of the dry extract, is likewise a tedious process in its unmodified 
state. I have accordingly set to work to effect such modifica- 
tions as will render it at once easy, accurate, and rapid. 

With this object in view, I have made experiments which 
establish the following conclusions : 

(1.) If a given quantity of tea be boiled with successive 
portions of water, no more tea-extract is got than if the same 
tea be boiled once with a large quantity of water. 

(2.) I have boiled tea with 25 times its weight of water, 
with 50 times, with 100 times, and with 200 times its 
weight of water, and got as much extract with the first as 
with the others. 

(3.) Whether the infusion is kept for a length of time just 
at the boiling-point, or whether the infusion be made to boil 
vigorously, makes some difference in the result. (Brisk 
boiling extracts about one-tenth more than slow boiling.) 



16 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

(4.) If the boiling be very vigorous, half an hour's boiling 
is as effective as an hour's boiling. 

(5.) 0-3 or 0'4 gramme of tea-extract, spread over the 
surface of a platinum dish capable of holding 100 c. c., dries 
very readily in the water-bath, and is very constant. 

Founded on these observations, I now work a tea-assay as 
follows: 10 grammes of tea is weighed out, and introduced 
into a flask capable of holding about 700 c. c. Into the 
flask 500 c. c. of distilled water is accurately measured. A 
cork and bent tube is then adapted to the mouth of the flask 
(which should have a stout lip), and a connection is 
established with a small Liebig's condenser. The contents of 
the flask are next heated and made to boil strongly, and 50 
c. c. is distilled over and collected. That having been done, 
the boiling is stopped, the flask and Liebig's condenser dis- 
connected, and the 50 c. c. of distillate poured back into the 
flask. The decoction of tea is then to be observed carefully. 
If quite clear, 50 grammes (or more accurately 50 '3 grammes) 
are weighed out and evaporated to dryness in the water-bath, 
and weighed till constant. 

If the decoction be not quite clear (which most frequently 
happens), then it is to be filtered hot. The first small portion 
of filtrate is best thrown away ; and then 50'3 grammes of 
filtrate is collected, weighed, and dried up in the water-bath 
until the residual tea-extract becomes constant. 
. The weighing out of the 50 '3 grammes of decoction whilst 
still hot presents no real difficulties, inasmuch as the 
weighing error through heating does not amount to more 
than one or two centigrammes in such a case. For this 
purpose a rough balance (whose performance, however, has 
been tested) will answer very well 



THE EXTEACT I AND THE TEA- ASSAY. 17 

As will also be obvious, there would be no great difficulty 
in contriving a measure to hold a little more than 50 c. c., 
and which would contain approximately 50 '3 grammes of the 
hot decoction. 

Having done the operation in the manner directed, the 
weight of the tea-extract actually weighed will be the weight 
of the tea-extract yielded by one gramme of the sample to be 



The entire operation may be performed under two hours. 
The following determinations have been made in my labo- 
ratory : 



Specimen of tea direct ) ' 



Percentage of tea-extract 
in air-dried sample. 

' 4l ' 7 



Himalayan tea (" Queen Elizabeth") . 38 '6 

Himalayan tea (Pekoe Souchong) . 35*4 

another sample W.B. 39-9 

Java tea (5s. 6d. per Ib.) . . W.B. 40'8 

Caper tea (4s. per Ib.) . . W.B. 37-6 

Young Hyson (4s. per Ib.) . W.B. 42'0 

Choice Gunpowder (4s. per Ib.) W.B. 46'3 

The above are either high-priced or else extraordinary teas. 



CHAPTER IV. 

"FKEE AND ALBUMINOID 

ESTIMATION OF NITEOGEN IN TEA. 

TEA-EXTEACT yields a comparatively large quantity of am- 
monia when it is boiled with potash and permanganate of 
potash, and it is probable that this character may prove 
very valuable in the testing of tea. 

In order to make these determinations, I operate as 
follows : First, a suitable infusion is prepared by boiling 
5 grammes of the sample of tea with 500 c. c. of water 
(vide chapter in.), and filling up to the 500 c. c. 

Of this infusion 5 or 10 c. c. (equal to the extract from 
50 or 100 milligrammes of tea) is a convenient quantity to 
take. 

A solution of potash, containing about 10 per cent, of solid 
potash, and free from ammonia and nitrogenous matter, is 
required, and may be easily obtained. 

10 c. c. of this solution of potash having been put into a 
small flask-retort working in an oil-bath, and connected with 
a small Liebig's condenser, the whole apparatus is to be care- 
fully freed from the last traces of ammonia, which is accom- 
plished by simply distilling a little water through it. That 
having been done, 5 or 10 c. c. of the tea-infusion are poured 
into the retort, which is corked up and heated in the oil-bath 
to 150 C. 



ESTIMATION OF NITKOGEN IN TEA. 19 

Having been maintained for a short time at that tempera- 
ture, it is lifted out of the bath ; some 50 c. c. of pure water 
are poured into the retort, which is again heated in the oil- 
bath. More than half of the water is then distilled over, 
and in this manner the " free ammonia " is obtained in the 
distillate. 

When this has been done, 50 c. c. of potash and perman- 
ganate solution (strength 200 grm. of KHO, and 8 grm. 
KMn0 4 in the litre) is added to the contents of the retort, 
and distilled so as to yield a distillate containing the 
" albuminoid ammonia." 

On making experiments with infusion of tea, it appeared 
that the sum of "free" and " albuminoid" ammonia, 
obtained as described, did not differ materially from the 
albuminoid ammonia obtained at once by boiling the infusion 
with potash and permanganate. 

My results are as follows. The extract from 100 milli- 
grammes of tea gaVe 

Free ammonia, . . . 0'28 milligrammes. 
Albuminoid ammonia, . 0-43 

Total, 071 

And in another experiment, in which I omitted to take 
free and albuminoid ammonia in separate operations, but 
proceeded at once to get albuminoid ammonia, from 100 
milligrammes of tea the extract yielded (Total) Albuminoid 
ammonia, 070 milligrammes. 

These experiments are made with very great ease, and I 
confidently recommend this method of investigating the 
strength of tea-infusion. (For the details of the method of 
measuring ammonia, vide " Water-Analysis.") 



20 TEA- ANALYSIS. 

For comparison with tea-infusion, I am at present able to 
cite only two examples viz., infusion of gooseberry leaves 
and infusion of Paraguay tea. 

The extract from 100 milligrammes of gooseberry leaves 
gave 

Free ammonia, . . 0-20 milligrammes 

Albuminoid ammonia . 0-295 

Total, 0-495 

The extract from 100 milligrammes of gooseberry leaves 
gave also, total ammonia, not distinguished into free and 
albuminoid (Total) Albuminoid ammonia, 045 milligrammes. 
Paraguay tea gave, from 100 milligrammes (Total) Albumi- 
noid ammonia, 0'50 milligrammes. From which it appears 
that tea leaves yield an extraordinary amount of ammonia 
when the extract is submitted to the "ammonia-process." 
As has already been remarked in the introductory chapter, 
tea is remarkably rich in nitrogen, so much so, that a deter- 
mination of nitrogen may be resorted to as a means of iden- 
tification. 

Such a determination may be made by the well-known 
Gay Lussac method, which I will now describe. 

The sample of tea must first of all be well mixed up. 
With this object it is well to take several grammes and 
powder them in a mortar, and of this tea-powder some 0*3 
grammes should be accurately weighed out. This is to be 
mixed with some 50 grammes of oxide of copper, which has 
been oxidised without the employment of nitric acid, and 
which shortly before use had been ignited and allowed to 
cool. 



ESTIMATION OF NITBOGEN IN TEA. 21 

A combustion-tube of hard German glass, which is closed 
at one end and perfectly clean, is then charged as follows : 

At the closed end a layer, some three or four inches in 
length, of a mixture of dry bicarbonate of soda and fused 
bichromate of potash. This mixture is intended to give out 
carbonic acid. Next to this mixture come some two inches 
of oxide of copper, then the mixture of tea and oxide of 
copper, then more oxide of copper, then clean metallic copper, 
then a perforated cork and exit tube which dips under 
mercury. The combustion-tube is placed in an appropriate 
furnace. By heating the layer of carbonate of soda .and 
bichromate of potash, carbonic acid is caused to traverse the 
tube and to expel the air from it. This having been done, 
the tube is heated gradually from before backwards, so as to 
burn up the tea. The gases are collected over mercury. At 
the end of the operation carbonic acid is once more made to 
traverse the tube by again heating the mixture at the back, 
and all the nitrogen is driven from the tube and collected. 
Finally the carbonic acid is absorbed by means of potash, and 
the residual nitrogen gas is measured with well-known pre- 
cautions. The gas should also be tested for binoxide of 
nitrogen by means of oxygen and pyrogallate of potash. Any 
binoxide of nitrogen gas must be measured and allowed for. 



CHAPTER V. 

THEINE. 

TEA and coffee contain one and the same alkaloid, to which 
the names caffeine and theine have been given. The formula 
of this alkaloid is 

C 8 H 10 N 4 2 . 

It was first discovered under the name of caffeine in 1820 
by Runge, who got it from coffee. Seven yeass later Oudry 
discovered a crystalline substance which he extracted from 
tea, and to which he gave the name theine. Jobst and 
Mulder afterwards showed that the active principle extracted 
from tea was identical with caffeine. By Pfaff and Liebig 
the formula of the alkaloid was settled. 

Theine is a substance which crystallises very beautifully, 
forming white silk-like crystals, containing an atom of water 
of crystallisation. The specific gravity of the crystals is 1'23 
at 19 C. The water of crystallisation is not altogether driven 
off by a temperature of 150 C. At 1 78 C. theine melts, and 
at 185 C. it sublimes. 

As deposited from aqueous solutions, theine contains an 
atom of water of crystallisation (formula C 8 Hi N 4 2 + H 2 0) ; 
but as deposited from solution in alcohol or in ether, or 
when sublimed, it is anhydrous. It is much more soluble 
in hot water than in cold water, or in alcohol or ether. 
According to Peligot, one part of theine dissolves in 300 



THEINE. 23 

parts of ether, and one part of theine dissolves in 93 parts of 
water at ordinary temperatures. It is a base of the same class 
as aniline and urea ; that is to say, it combines with acids 
yielding crystalline compounds, but it never neutralises an acid. 
When aqueous solutions of its salts are boiled, they suffer spon- 
taneous decomposition, as a rule, and deposit theine. With 
chloride of platinum, chloride of gold, corrosive sublimate, 
the hydrochlorate of theine enters into combination, forming 
a double salt with each. 

Solutions of theine are precipitated by tannin, yielding a 
white tannate of theine which contains 41 '9 parts of theine, 
and 58 '1 parts of tannin. In tea the theine exists in com- 
bination with tannin. 

As will be manifest from its formula, theine is one of the 
most highly nitrogenous substances known to chemists, its 
percentage composition being 

C 8 96 

H 10 10 

N 4 56 

2 32 

194 100-00 

Connected with its high percentage of nitrogen (almost 
double of that found in the albuminous substances) is its 
property of yielding abundance of cyanides when fused with 
soda-lime. 

According to Kochleder, this property of yielding a cyanide 
distinguishes theine from a number of organic bases viz., 
piperine, morphine, quinine, and cinchonine. 
. A cyanogen compound, chloride of cyanogen, is likewise 
produced by the action of chlorine upon theine. 

With the base of cocoa, which has received the name 




24 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

theobromine, theine is closely related, being methylated 
theobromine. Strecker has, in point of fact, produced 
theine from theobromine. This he accomplished by acting 
upon a silver-derivative of theobromine with iodide of methyl 
in a sealed tube heated to 100 C. : the reaction being as 

follows : 

Silver Theobromine. 

CrH^OA^ +CHJ = Ag I 

Theine. 

+ "C^NA 

Little more is, however, known of the structure of theine 
and theobromine. These bodies are apparently related to uric 
acid, inasmuch as, like it, when exposed to the successive action 
of nitric acid and ammonia, they yield a purple colouring- 
matter (Murexide). 

As has been said, theine exists in tea, not in the free state, 
but in the form of tannate of theine, which appears to be dis- 
solved by the excess of tannic acid contained by the tea leaf, 
and so it comes to pass that the theine makes its appearance 
in the infusion, instead of remaining behind in the exhausted 



The proportion of theine in tea has been variously given 
by different chemists. Mulder found 0'43 per cent, in green 
tea, and 046 per cent, in black tea. Stenhouse found 1'05 
and 0'98 in green tea, and 1*02 and I '27 in black tea. 
Peligot found 2*34 and 3*0 per cent, of theine in tea; and 
Zoller, whose research is comparatively recent (vide Liebig's 
"Annalen" for 1871) found 4 '94 per cent, of theine in 
Himalayan tea. 

It would be a mistake to regard these varying results as 
showing that the quantity of theine in tea is very variable. 



THEINE. 25 

They only illustrate the difficulties which stand in the way of 
a quantitative extraction of the theine, and the imperfection of 
the earlier methods. In P6ligot's paper these difficulties are 
referred to, and by making an attempt to extract the theine 
from a sample of tea the chemist will easily acquire a sense of 
the reality of them. 

The following is a description of the method for the extraction 
of the theine : 

A quantity of tea is boiled with a considerable quantity of 
water viz., 200 grammes of tea with 3 litres of water. The 
infusion is then to be squeezed out of the leaves, which are to 
be boiled with a fresh quantity of water, and again subjected to 
pressure. This is to be repeated a third time. The several por- 
tions of infusion squeezed out of the leaves are mixed toge- 
ther, and treated with excess of acetate of lead and ammonia, 
which precipitates the tannin and the colouring-matter. The 
liquid is next to be filtered. The filtrate is then evaporated 
down to a small bulk, first over the naked flame, and after- 
wards in the water-bath. On being allowed to cool, the 
solution will deposit crude theine, which is removed by filtra- 
tion. The filtrate is afterwards nearly dried up in the water-' 
bath, and the residue boiled with alcohol, which dissolves the 
theine out of it. From its hot alcoholic solution theine 
crystallises on cooling. 

A final purification may be effected by crystallisation from 
ether, and decolourizing with animal charcoal. 

As will have been perceived, the extraction of theine will 
need improvement and simplification before it can be of much 
value to the food-analyst in his investigation of samples of 
tea. 



CHAPTEK VI. 

TANNIN IN TEA. 

A LARGE proportion of tea-extract consists of tannin, and in green 
tea there is much more tannin than in black tea. This differ- 
ence depends upon the circumstance that part of the tannin 
originally existing in the leaf is destroyed during the process 
of fermentation which takes place in the preparation to which 
black tea is subjected in the process of manufacture. 

In green tea there is, according to Allen (vide Chemical 
News, vol. 29, p. 189), about 20 per cent, of tannin ; but the 
quantity is subject to great variation. In black tea, accord- 
ing to the same authority, the tannin amounts to 10 per cent, 
on the average, the extremes being 12'00 and 9 '50 per cent. 

For the estimation of the tannin various processes are in 
use. There is a titration by means of a standard solution of 
gelatine, which depends upon the well-known property pos- 
sessed by gelatine of forming insoluble compounds with 
tannin. This titration is not easy, and is admitted to be very 
tedious by those who have employed it. A much more 
promising method, recently described by Mr Allen (vide 
Chemical News, vol. 29, pp. 169 and 189), consists in 
titrating by means of standard solution of lead, the point of 
saturation being indicated by the red colour struck by an 
ammoniacal solution of ferricyanide of potassium. The 
standard solution of lead is made by dissolving 5 grammes of 



TANNIN IN TEA. 27 

acetate of lead in water, which is diluted so as to measure a 
litre. This solution is filtered if necessary. 

The indicator is made by dissolving 5 milligrammes of 
crystals of ferricyanide of potassium in 5 c. c. of water, and 
mixing that with 5 c. c. of strong ammonia. One drop of this 
solution is capable of colouring one milligramme of tannin dis- 
solved in 100 c. c. of water. 

The exact strength of the solution of lead is ascertained by 
trial with a standard solution of tannin. 

In using the solution of lead, 10 c. c. of it are first diluted 
with nine times their volume of water. The tea-infusion 
is then dropped into it from a graduated burette, until the 
liquid strikes a red with a drop of the indicator. Before 
using the indicator a little of the solution is filtered, and the 
filtrate allowed to drop on filter-paper, moistened with a drop 
of the indicator. 

The infusion of tea is made by boiling 2 grammes of tea 
with water, and afterwards diluting to 250 c. c. ; and it will 
of course be understood that the smaller the quantity of this 
infusion required to saturate the 10 c. c. of lead solution, the 
higher the percentage of tannin in the sample of tea. 
Mr Allen considers that this test is specially applicable for 
ascertaining whether black tea has been mixed with spent tea. 
Taking the normal percentage of tannin in genuine black tea 
as 10, and the percentage of tannin in spent tea as 2, he 
proposes the following formula for the calculation of the per- 
centage of spent tea in the sample : 

E _ (10 T) 100 
8 

where E = percentage of spent tea and T = percentage of 
tannin found in the sample. 



CHAPTER VII. 

CALCULATION OF RESULTS. 

IN coming to a judgment as to the genuineness of a sample 
of tea of which an analysis has been made, it is of importance 
to bear in mind that genuine tea is subject to considerable 
variation in composition. The condition of the leaf at the 
time of gathering, and the different treatments to which it is 
subjected in the process of manufacture differences which 
determine whether the tea shall be black tea or green tea 
cause the composition of tea to exhibit a wide range of 
variation. 

Taking the percentage of tea-extract as the basis from 
which to start, we observe that in genuine tea this may range 
from 32 up to about 50 per cent. ; that is to say, unsophisti- 
cated tea, in its ordinary air-dried condition, may yield up to 
the action of boiling water from 32 to 50 per cent, of its 
weight. 

Such being the case, it is obvious that a determination of 
the percentage of extract will not enable the analyst to say 
whether the sample of tea consists of the lower variety of 
genuine tea, or whether it consists partly of the higher variety 
of genuine tea and partly of spent tea. In a general way, 
however, this is a question the solution of which is not of 
much importance to the public analyst. 

A little assistance, in such a case, may be derived from a 



CALCULATION OF EESULTS. 29 

determination of the soluble ash, which would probably be 
found to be rather deficient. Although tea may be exception- 
ally rich in extract, and although there are difficulties in the 
way of deciding whether a given specimen of tea consists of 
average tea or of rich tea mixed with spent tea, there are 
no such difficulties in recognising the case of average tea 
mixed with considerable quantities of spent tea. For this 
purpose it will be convenient to employ the formula : 

E = (32 B) 100 
30 

where E is the percentage of spent tea in the sample, and 
R the percentage of tea-extract found by the tea-assay. 

From an examination of the ash, data are obtained which 
may be utilised in the following formula : 
E = (6 2S) 20 

E being the percentage of spent tea, and S the percentage 
of soluble ash in the tea. This formula was proposed by Mr 
Allen, and is based upon the determinations of soluble ash 
brought out by me, and supplemented by Mr Allen's deter- 
mination that the soluble ash in spent tea is 0*5 per cent. 

It is assumed in this formula that the soluble ash in 
genuine tea is 3'0 per cent, and in spent tea 0'5 per cent. 

From the determination of tannin, as given in last chapter, 
the following formula has been proposed by Mr Allen : 

E = (10 T) 100 
8 

In using these formulae, it will of course be understood 
that the results are only rough approximations to the truth, 
and great judgment and discrimination is required. 



30 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

Of the other forms of sophistication, mineral adulteration 
will be dealt with through the ash, and adulteration with . 
foreign leaves will show itself when the tea is examined 
botanically. Deficient nitrogen, deficient ammonia, and 
deficient theine, are all indicative of foreign leaves. 



PART II. 



COFFEE. 

COFFEE is a seed which grows in a pod, like the pea or the 
bean. The plant which produces coffee is a tree, Cafea 
arabica. It grows in Arabia, Ceylon, the West Indies, 
Brazil, and other hot countries. Before it is imported to 
Europe the coffee is deprived of the pod, and also of another 
covering. 

In commerce coffee is met with in three conditions viz., 
raw or unroasted, roasted, and ground. As might be imagined, 
it is in this last condition that it is liable to the chief 
sophistications. 

According to Payen, 100 parts of raw coffee contain 34 
parts of cellulose, 12 of water, from 10 to 13 of fat, 15 -5 of 
dextrine, glucose, and an organic acid, 10 of legumen, 3 of 
indefinite organic nitrogenous substances, and 3*5 to 5 of 
double caffetannate of caffeine and potash. 

In addition to the foregoing, Payen describes some 0*8 per 
cent, of free caffeine, and very small quantities of essential and 
aromatic oils, amounting to only 0*003 per cent, of the coffee. 

Payen's determination of the ash of coffee was too high, and 
need not be quoted. 



32 COFFEE-ANALYSIS. 

Within the last few months Mr Allen has published some 
determinations of the ash of coffee (vide Chemical Neivs, 

Vol. 25, p. 140). He finds- 
Percentage of ash. 

Specimen 1, 3'86 

2, ...... 3-95 

3, 4'20 

Mean 4'00 

and adopting my plan of investigation, he has also determined 
the ratio of soluble to insoluble ash, and finds that the 4 parts 
of ash consist of 

Soluble in water, 3'24 

Insoluble, 076 

4-00 

This agrees very well with the analyses of coffee-ash which 
have been published, and according to which rather more than 
half of the entire ash consists of potash in combination with 
carbonic and phosphoric acids ; whilst the magnesia amounts 
to about 8 per cent., and the lime to about 4 per cent, of the 
entire ash. It is said that soda and silica are absent from 
coffee-ash, and great stress has been laid on this circumstance. 
The ash of chicory (which is the main adulterant of coffee), 
has likewise received attention from Mr Allen. It amounts 
to 5'06 per cent, of the chicory, and consists of 

Soluble in water, . ... . . 1-74 

Insoluble, . . ; . : '. . . . 3-32 

5-06 

from which it may be easily understood that an examina- 
tion of the ash would suffice to distinguish between coffee and 
chicory. 



COFFEE. 33 

As has been said, coffee is met with raw, roasted and ground. 
With the raw coffee and with the simply roasted coffee, the 
public analyst will have very little to do, and his services will 
be chiefly required in dealing with ground coffee. 

In the process of roasting, coffee undergoes certain changes. 
Before being roasted it contains from 5 '7 to 7 '8 per cent, 
of sugar, but after roasting, the percentage of sugar is not 
higher than I'l, and sometimes it is even zero. (Vide 
Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell on Coffee in the Quarterly 
Journal of the Chemical Society, vol. ix., p. 33.) 

It appears, therefore, that the description of sugar which is 
present in raw coffee suffers destruction during roasting. 

A change in the condition of the fat of coffee is also 
brought about by the roasting; for, whereas ether extracts 
with readiness only some 4 or 5 per cent, of fat from raw 
coffee-beans, it extracts easily double that quantity from 
roasted coffee. So striking is this that Von Bibra has even 
credited the roasting with the production of the fat, but most 
probably the action is only mechanical in bursting the fat- 
cells, and thereby rendering the fat accessible to the solvent 
action of the ether. 

Roasted coffee is tolerably rich in nitrogen. It contains 
from 2*5 to 3'0 per cent, of nitrogen. This, as will be 
observed, is only about half as much as exists in tea ( Vide 
Part I., chapter I.) 

The operation of roasting tends to make coffee soluble in 
boiling water. Thus when raw coffee is perfectly exhausted 
by means of boiling water, it yields up 25 per cent., which 
pass into solution. Roasted coffee, on the other hand, when 
completely exhausted by means of boiling water, yields up 39 
per cent. (Vogel). These numbers appear to be rather high. 



34 COFFEE- ANALYSIS. 

In actually using coffee as a beverage, we are not in the 
habit of making anything like a complete extraction, and 
only some 10 or 12 per cent, of the coffee passes into the 
liquid. 

'Coffee is quite devoid of starch. 

From the foregoing it will be perceived that the chemical 
characters of coffee provide tolerably satisfactory criteria for 
the recognition of many species of adulteration. 

The absence of starch in genuine coffee offers in itself a 
character which enables us at once to deal with a whole class 
of possible adulterants, including every species of grain. 

The absence of more than traces of sugar in roasted coffee 
can likewise be turned to excellent account ; inasmuch as 
chicory, which like coffee contains no starch, is highly 
saccharine even after roasting. 

The percentage of sugar in roasted coffee ranges from O'O 
to 1*14; in roasted chicory, on the other hand, the percentage 
of sugar ranges from 12 to 18. 

By the aid of the copper-reduction test this character may 
be easily brought out. 

For this purpose a standard solution of copper is required, 
which may be prepared by dissolving 34 '65 grammes of 
crystallised sulphate of copper in 200 c.c. of water, and 
adding to it 173 grammes of double tartrate of potash and 
soda and 480 c.c. of solution of caustic soda (sp. gr. 1*14), 
the whole being subsequently diluted with water so as to 
occupy exactly a litre. This standard solution of copper 
prepared in this manner is of such a strength that 10 c.c. are 
reduced by '050 gramme of grape sugar (C 6 H 12 6 ). 

The best way of using this solution is by taking a known 
volume of it, say 10 c.c. accurately measured out, diluting 



COFFEE. 35 

with three or four times its volume of water, boiling and then 
dropping into the boiling copper-solution the sugar-solution 
which is to be added, until the point is just reached when 
the copper-solution is exhausted. As the reduction of the 
copper-salt, to the state of red suboxide of copper progresses, 
the precipitate will accumulate, and at the same time the blue 
colour will fade from the solution. The last delicate reading 
is finally effected by help of the reaction between ferrocyanide 
of potassium and copper-solutions ; and for that purpose a 
little of the liquid is filtered, acidified slightly with acetic acid, 
and tested with a drop of solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. 

In this titration, as in all like cases, the piece of advice 
may be given, to make a rough and rapid estimation first, and 
then in a second operation, when the quantity is approxi- 
mately known, to make a delicate and careful reading of the 
exact point. 

If 100 parts of coffee when infused yield sensibly more than 
one per cent, of sugar, then chicory may be very strongly 
suspected : and a rough calculation of the quantity present 
may be made thus : 

(S-l) 100 
~T4~ 

Where in E is the percentage of chicory in the sample, and 
S the percentage of sugar. 

The circumstance that coffee-extract is devoid, or almost 
devoid of sugar, whilst many other natural products yield sac- 
charine extracts, makes itself manifest in many ways. The 
specific gravity of an infusion of coffee is very much lower 
than the specific gravity of an infusion of chicory, made from 
an equal weight of chicory. The following are the specific 



36 



COFFEE-ANALYSIS. 



gravities of infusion of a number of substances, as deter- 
mined by Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell in 1857. 

The solutions were made by taking one part of the substance 
(which had been roasted) and ten times its weight of cold 
water, and then heating gradually to boiling, and filtering 
through paper. The specific gravities of the solutions pre- 
pared in this manner were taken at 60 Fahr. 



Spent tan, 



1-0021 



Lupin seed, 1*0057 

Acorns, 1-0073 

Peas, 1-0073 

Mocha coffee 1-0080 

Beans, . 1-0084 

Neilgherry coffee, T0084 

Plantation Ceylon coffee, . . . 1'0087 

Java coffee, 1-0087 

Jamaica coffee, 1-0087 

Costa Eica coffee, 1-0090 

1-0090 

Native Ceylon coffee, . . . . 1-0090 

Brown malt, . . . . . 1-0109 

Parsnips, - . 1'0143 

Carrots, 1-0171 

Bouka, 1-0185 

Yorkshire chicory, . . . . . 1-0191 

Black malt, 1-0212 

Turnips, 1-0214 

Eye meal, . . . . . . 1-0216 

English chicory, 1'0217 

Dandelion root, . . . . 1-0219 

Eedbeet, ...... 1-0221 

Foreign chicory, 1-0226 

Guernsey chicory, 1-0232 

Mangold Wurzel, 1-0235 

Maize, 1-0253 

Bread raspings, 1-0263 

Chicory has much greater colouring power than coffee, and 



COFFEE. 



37 



this character may be rendered available. One part of the 
sample is boiled with 2000 parts of water, and the solution 
cooled and compared with a standard colour, in a manner 
which will be at once intelligible to persons who are in the 
habit of using the Nessler-test. Graham, Stenhouse, and 
Campbell have also published an investigation into the 
colouring power of a number of substances. I cannot do 
better than quote the results. 

Name of substance which was roasted Volume of solution 

and then treated with 2000 times required to give equal 

its weight of boiling water. colouration. 

. Caramel, 1-00 

Mangold Wurzel, . . . . T66 

Bouka (coffee substitute), . . . 1-66 

Black malt, 182 

White turnips, 2 '00 

Carrots, 2 -00 

Chicory (dark Yorkshire), . . . 2*22 

Parsnips, 2-50 

Maize, 2'86 

Eye, 2-86 

Dandelion, 3 '33 

Kedbeet, ...... 3-33 

Bread raspings, 3-64 

Acorns, 5-00 

Over-roasted coffee, .... 5-46 

High-roasted coffee, . . . . 5'77 

Medium-roasted coffee, . . . 6*95 

Coffee, 6-66 

White Lupin seeds, .... 10*00 

Peas, ...:... 13-33 

Beans, 13%33 

Spent Tan, 33-00 

Brown malt, 40.0 

In this table, the greater the volume of the solution the less 
the colouring power of the substance. The numbers are, 



38 COFFEE-ANALYSIS. 

therefore, inversely as the colouring powers of the different 
substances. 

The above solutions were made by heating to 212 Fahr. : 
but if solutions be made at ordinary temperatures, there is a 
far greater difference between coffee and chicory. 

Not only does chicory colour water more deeply than 
coffee, but it colours with far greater rapidity. No doubt 
the oil contained in coffee hinders the solution of the colour- 
ing matter by water, and more especially by cold water ; 
whereas chicory, which contains no oil, imparts its colouring 
matter to water with great readiness. All this tends to render 
the colour -test, when properly applied, especially available for 
the detection of chicory in coffee. 

With regard to propriety of selling chicory with coffee, the 
remark may be made that it is certainly not right to sell a 
mixture of coffee with chicory under the name of pure coffee. 
It would, furthermore, not be unreasonable to compel the 
vendor to specify, approximately, the proportion of chicory 
contained in the mixture which is sold. This is especially 
desirable, inasmuch as chicory is far cheaper than coffee, and 
it is, therefore, -necessary to protect the public against having 
chicory passed off for coffee. 

But whilst admitting all this, I think it cannot be doubted 
that the mixing of chicory with coffee is really demanded by 
public taste, and that this admixture is made, for the most 
part, in order to meet the requirements of the public, and not 
with fraudulent intent of any kind. 

The use of chicory along with coffee was originally a Dutch 
practice, and dates back about a century ago. For many 
years the nature of chicoried coffee was 'kept a secret by the 
Dutch dealers ; but in the year 1801 the secret was disclosed. 



COFFEE. 39 

At the present time the consumption of chicory has assumed 
colossal proportions, and in France alone the annual consump- 
tion of chicory is 6,000,000 kilogrammes (six thousand tons 
approximately). In short, there is no manner of doubt that 
public taste demands the admixture of chicory with coffee. 

Although, however, such admixtures be demanded, yet it 
appears to be impossible to replace coffee altogether ; and 
elaborate attempts made by the French during the war in 
the early part of this century were unsuccessful in providing 
any substitute for coffee. 



40 



COFFEE-ANALYSIS. 



tx' 






NBILGHBR 


O COOS rH OS O (N lO 

oo : co -rt< copcoosoo ; : 
ib o cb o co o Tt< 6 : : 

*O rH rH 


O 

1 

rH 


1 


(M 1> !> T}< CO OS OO O 

O ;OOOO TJ<GX|OO5rH ; ; 


CO 
CO 


Q 


rH ' 10 00 O O O CO O ' ' 


OS 


8 


O rH rH 


OS 


i 




CO 


< 


J> * rH CO ^^ rH 1> lO rH * " 





g 


CO ' CO 00 O CO O CO rH 
O rH rH 


rH 


I 


O rHCO COdO^O 
(M 'COCO COOOOCOOO * : 





j< 


CO ' 4}< 00 OCOrHCDO * ' 


OS 





O rH rH 


OS 


1 


O _ rH O CO OS CO CO 

^ ' Tf CO OCOOCOrH ' ' 
lO i 1 i 1 


oi 

O5 
OS 


M 


05 coco co?2i2?2S 
J>- ;io^ os - ^^ c P^ D ; ; 


8 




<g -^co o^o^^J 





H 






o . 


O OG3 tOCMi-ilr^CO 

r ( ^H "^ ^t* CO f~^ "^ CO * 


n 


56 


O ' ^ 00 O CO rH t^ 6 
HO rH rH 


| 


fi 













1 ""!' 2 111" S"tT 

*.agr^ 



COFFEE. 



41 



J 


O 00 CO 00 10 


O *O rH CD ^O r 1 


CO 


D 


CM CO CO CO 


CD T}< CO CD O O 

r i c?q 


O5 



3 


iO C^ ^^ Tf* CO 


00 CO O CD iO O 

CO CM 00 O Jt^- r-H 


CD 
CD 


i 


05 cq 10 co o 


<ONN " 2 " 


05 
05 


M 

2 


CO O O fN CO 

co r-n co cq i i 


CO 00 00 1>* r-H 00 


00 
05 


1 


^ jO 05 ^ CO 


^^ Tf G^l r- H OQ QO 
rH rH 


O5 

O5 


DARKEST ENGLISH 
(YORKSHIRE). 


co oq co Jt- >- 
TF rn co cq co 

co oo O5 ib co 


O5 CO CO CD r-H (M 
CN O5 J>- CD OO CO 
O Tj< rH O CO O5 


100-85 




















































i 








Potash, . 
Soda, 
Lime, 
Magnesia . 
Sesquioxide of ! 


rf " *-rf " " 

3 ^ 

2 :s. - - 
'S 1 1 ^ 

^,5^ 1*3^ 

"^ A S r^ ^ 

O2 O O PH CQ O2 





COFFEE- ANALYSIS. 



tO tO 00 i (J^T}<J>.i I i ICO 
O5O5Tt<COCNGpCpC^CNO^ 
J^OrHrHrHCOG<|cbrHrH 



O .OO^tppOTjiOOO 

cb : cbcb6eqTFrHco6 

*O rH rH 



O CO O 00 



o n ^r o> <o 

CO rH 



CO CO r- 1 
OSCpOCOtptpJf-CprHO 

-rfOCO^OC^^JICOrHrH 



T}< rH O5 O5 tO rH 
tO O JT^ CO rH O 



tO tO 00 

i> t^ cb 



^^ CO CO t^ 

00 tO tO 00 

cb 6 o 6 



"* - ^ s 
-i ! 

? M oT -r-i P 



I 

a 




PART III, 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 

COCOA, in its various forms, and chocolate, are preparations of 
the seed of the cacao, or chocolate-tree, a tree which grows in 
hot countries. 

This tree, Theobroma cacao, was cultivated in ancient 
Mexico ; and from the ancient Mexican civilisation we derive 
both the use of cocoa and chocolate, and also the names by 
which they are called in modern times. 

The tree is at present cultivated in Mexico, the West 
Indies, South America, and Africa. It is an evergreen, 
growing from fifteen to forty feet in height. The seeds 
are found in pods, containing twenty to forty seeds in a pod. 
Before leaving the country where they grow they are cured, as 
it is called*. In this process a kind of fermentation is set up, 
which is allowed to proceed to a certain point, and then 
stopped. 

In the year 1520 cocoa was brought to Europe by Columbus, 
but the earliest record of its employment in England is in the 
year 1659. 

In modern England it is of considerable commercial 
importance, as the following figures testify. The quantity of 
raw cocoa imported into England for home consumption in 



44 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

1820, was 276,321 Ibs., and in 1873 it had risen to 8,311,023 
Ibs. 

The seeds of the cacao, as they are seen in this country 
after importation, have the general appearance of almonds. 
They are brown in colour, and consist of a thin outer shell, 
and a more massive interior termed the nib. The shell is 
prolonged in the form of thin septa into the inner part of 
the seed. The relative proportions of shell and nib are 
approximately as 1:8, the nib being much the more 
abundant. 

They vary considerably in size. Single seeds may be picked 
out which weigh as much as 2 '7 grammes, but the average 
weight is much less, viz., 1*2 grammes. 

Having, through the kindness of Mr Holm, obtained pos- 
session of authentic specimens of the chief varieties of cacao 
seeds at present in the market, I have made the following 
determinations of the weights of the different sorts of 



Names of Cocoa. 


Weight of 100 Seeds 
Grammes. 

98' 


Fair good Trinidad, 
Very fine Trinidad, 


123-2 

1787 
104*5 


Fine Grenada, .... 
Caracas, 


i31. 
130-3 
110' 


Fine Surinam, .... 
Fine Surinam (small) . 


122. 
71-5 
118- 


Mexican, ..... 
African, ..... 


136-5 

128- 



The following analysis of the seeds may be quoted from 
Mr Holm's admirable lecture delivered to the Society of Arts- 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 



45 



S3SA1VNV 
jailiO 1VH3A3S 
iO 3OVH3AV 



8 : 8 . : : 88 . . : S8 : 8 : 8 

O " OO * * * O 00 " * " C^ CO tH " CO " O O 
O rH iH O 



b~ rH COO O OOOO O 

o c<i p ^ -os :? i ? 5 9 i i 05 : 

8 8 . : : : : 8 : : 

OS OO 

O O OO QO 1O^O<M 1O rt< O 

O CO " ' ' " O ^ ' 'O " CO O iH * CO 

=3 r- ^1 

o :?:::::??: :P8 . 

Tt< <M iH rH O 

8 8 . : : . . 8 . .? . 

CO t> . G^ i | ' CO O 

| :::::??: ;||H| : : : o 

O <M ^ 

8 . . .8 .. 8 ... .88 ... .8 

3 : : : : : i^ : : : : ' 



: : :8 : : 8 .888 

-o -<N icSOf 



8 



l>- O Tf< 1C Ci O rH rH CO O 

O^ C-l rH IO CO . O CO O lO O 

o : : : OTI< : bb : o : cb<bbco 



CO QO 







iOBj}jgMijjA< 

p^v , 'wo v -Y~'oHw1 s -v 



46 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

From this, it will be seen that the most abundant con- 
stituent of the seed is the fat, or cocoa butter, which con- 
stitutes about half of the entire seed. Owing, no doubt, to 
'this circumstance, the specific gravity of the seeds is less 
than unity, and the seeds float on water : after being kept for 
some days in contact with the water, some of the fat makes 
its escape from the seed, which sinks down to the bottom. 

I attach great importance to the determination of the ash. 
The following determinations of ash have been recently made 
in my laboratory : 

Percentage of Ash. 

Common Trinidad, . . . . . 3'37 

Very fine Trinidad, 3 -62 

Fair good fine Trinidad, . . '. . 3'64 

Fine Grenada, . . .;-.,.' 3'12 

Medium Grenada, 3'06 

Caracas, 4'58 

Bahia (Brazil), 3'31 

Fine Surinam, 3 -06 

Fine Surinam (Small), . . . . 3-15 

Mexican, 4 '27 

Dominican, 2'82 

African, 2*68 

The mean of the 12 being ..... 3.39 

Separate determinations of the ash of the nib and the shell 
have also been made. 

In the nib of the Caracas, the ash amounted to 3 '95 per 
cent., whereof 2 -00 was soluble in water, and T95 insoluble 
in water. 

In the nib of the Mexican seeds, the ash was found to be 
2 '5 9 per cent. : ^whereof 0'89 was soluble, and 1*70 insoluble 
in water. The shell (which, as mentioned above, forms only 
a very small proportion of the entire seed) is much richer in 
mineral matter or ash. I have found as much as 7.81 per 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 4 / 

cent, of ash in the shell. The composition of the ash of the 
shell is very different from that of the nib ; whilst the ash of 
the shell is rich in carbonates, that of the nib is almost 
devoid of carbonates. 

A very careful analysis of the ash of the entire seed has 
been recently made by my friend, Mr William Bettel, in my 
laboratory. The results are as follows : 

Composition of Ash of the entire seeds (Caracas'). 

Potash K 2 29-81 

Chloride of Sodium Na Ci . . 6- 10 

Peroxide of Iron Fi 2 3 . . . . T60 

Alumina, A1 2 3 2 '40 

Lime, Ca O 772 

Magnesia, Mg O 7'90 

Phosphoric Acid P 2 5 . . . . 24'28 

Sulphuric Acid, S0 3 . . . . 1*92 

Carbonic Acid, C0 2 .... 0'98 

Silica, Si 2 5 "00 

Sand 12-15 

99-86 

From this analysis it is apparent that the main constituent 
of the ash is phosphate of potash, and that there is almost 
total absence of carbonates. The ash of the shell being, as 
has been said, highly charged with carbonates, it follows that, 
in obtaining the ash of the entire seed, we cause the phos- 
phates of the nib to decompose the carbonates of the shell, 
and so obtain an ash devoid of carbonates. 

The large proportion of phosphate of potash in cocoa (cer- 
tainly not far short of one per cent, in the cacao seed of 
good quality) is worthy the attention of the physician, and 
no doubt gives an especial value to a dietary consisting 



48 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

largely of cocoa. It will further be observed that the fine 
kinds of cacao seed are rich in phosphate of potash. 

In making analyses of the various preparations of the cacao 
'seed, considerable use may be made of the determination of 
ash, as will be explained by and by. 

The Theobromine is the alkaloid of cocoa. Its formula 

C 7 H 8 N 4 2 

being, as has been said, closely related to theine, the alkaloid 
of tea and coffee, which is a methylated derivative of theo- 
bromine. Theobromine is richer in nitrogen than theine, as 
may be seen on comparing its percentage composition with 
that of theine. 



C 7 . . 

H 8 . . 

Ni. 


84 
8 

56 


46-67 
4-44 
31-11 


O 2 . 


32 


17-78 









180 100-00 

Theobromine differs from theine by not forming silk-like 
crystals, being nearly amorphous. It is, likewise, far less 
soluble in alcohol. It sublimes between 290 and 295 C. 

Its extraction is very similar to the extraction of theine. 
The cacao is boiled with successive portions of water; the solu- 
tion is precipitated with neutral acetate of lead, the excess of 
lead being precipitated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and the 
filtrate is evaporated down. The thick residue so obtained is 
boiled with alcohol, and the alcoholic solution filtered 
boiling. On cooling, the alcoholic solution deposits the 
theobromine in a coloured form, susceptible of purification 
in various ways. 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 49 

Tkeobromine, like tyrosine, dissolves in ammonia much 
more freely than in water. 

The cacao seed, in its unprepared condition, is not an 
article of retail trade. Before it reaches the consumer it 
requires much preparation, and without such preparation is in 
as impracticable a condition as unground grain before the 
miller has converted it into flour. 

Flake Cocoa, which is one of the simplest preparations of 
the cacao seed, consists of the seed simply crushed, without 
separation of the shell (or husk) into the form of flakes. It 
is by no means a desirable form of cocoa, inasmuch as the 
husk is irritating to the intestines, and apt to give rise to a 
peculiar form of dysentery ; moreover, it requires a great deal 
of cooking in order to render it palatable. 

Cocoa-Nibs. To prepare the nibs, the cacao seeds are 
roasted, crushed (but not powdered), and then winnowed 
from the husk. This is a much better preparation than the 
flake, inasmuch as it is free from the husk. The drawback to 
its use is, that it requires a very prolonged boiling in order to 
become available for food. 

Soluble Cocoa. There are two methods of making soluble 
cocoa : (1.) By taking the nibs, expressing a portion of the fat, 
and powdering the residue. (2.) By adding farina to the nib 
containing the whole of its fat, and then powdering. (Dunn 
and Hewett.) 

The exact details of the manufacture are quoted from Mr 
Holm's lectures to the Society of Arts : 

" The mode of manufacture of soluble cocoa or chocolate powder 
is as follows : The raw nuts are first picked in order to remove 
any mouldy or damaged nuts, the presence of which would 
injure the flavour of the cocoa. The picked nuts are then placed 

D 



50 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

in revolving heated cylinders. When sufficiently roasted a 
process which takes from three-quarters of an hour to an hour 
and a half they are either spread out thinly on a grating, or 
placed in coolers so constructed as to offer a large conducting 
surface, and are thus rapidly cooled down. The roasted nuts are 
then conveyed to a kibbling-mill supplied with fans ; the cocoa 
is here broken down and the shell winnowed from the nib. When 
this operation is fully effected, the nibs are slightly warmed before 
being ground. 

" A cocoa-mill constructed to reduce the nibs into a fine paste 
consists of two parts viz., the feed-mill and the grinding-mill. 
The object of the feed-mill is merely to regulate the supply of 
cocoa sent into the grinding-mill. The latter is not unlike a 
flour-mill, consisting of a horizontal bed, on which revolves a 
runner. These mills have to be heated, and the cocoa runs from 
them in a smooth, semi-liquid condition, when it is ready for incor- 
poration with the sugar and farinaceous substances with which 
it is to be mixed. It is afterwards reduced to a powder. This 
powder may be made either fine or coarse, it being a question of 
merely manipulative process, which has no relation to quality. 
If required very fine, it may have to be more completely pulverised 
in another mill. But whether coarse in grain or fine matters not ; 
the cocoa is the same in quality that is, either fine or common 
preparations may have either appearance. With slight variations 
of process, this is the only way in which soluble cocoa powder 
can be produced ; that is, it must contain sugar and farina. The 
cocoa being, in the first place, very finely ground, the sugar causes 
it to mix readily, while the farinaceous substance holds the par- 
ticles of cocoa in suspension, and the whole forms an emulsion." 

The disadvantage of the soluble cocoa prepared from the 
nib by simple expression of part of the fat, and then powder- 
ing, is, that it requires boiling in order to become available. 
The merit of the other mode of preparation, with starch and 
sugar, is, that simple mixing with boiling water is all the pre- 
paration required in order to become available for use. 

The former of these kinds of soluble cocoa has been rather 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 51 

unfairly extolled as being pure cocoa ; but it is much dearer 
than the latter, and is impoverished of a certain portion of 
fat 

Between these two kinds of soluble cocoa there are very 
obvious differences in chemical character. The former is 
necessarily rich in mineral matter, and the latter is compara- 
tively poor. 

The following determinations illustrate this fact : 

Percentage of ash. 

(1.) Cocoa powder (by abstraction of part of 

butter), 3'47 

(2.) Soluble cocoa (by mixture with starch and 

sugar), . . . . . . . 1*45 

(3.) Dunn & Hewett's commonest cocoa, . .171 

(4.) Chocolate, . . I'll 

A determination of the ratio of fat to ash in the sample of 
soluble cocoa would obviously afford information. 

With regard to the mixed cocoa and to chocolate (which is, 
in fact, a variety of mixed cocoa), a clue to the proportion of 
cocoa-nibs in the mixture may be derived from the percentage 
of ash yielded by the mixture. It is impossible for a larger 
proportion of nibs to be present in the mixture than is indi- 
cated by the ash. In the three mixtures which furnished 
1'45, 1*71, and I'll per cent, of ash respectively, there cannot 
possibly be more than 50 per cent, of real cocoa-nib. 

Advantage may likewise be taken of the fact that the ash 
consists to a great extent of soluble phosphates ; and having 
burnt a sample so as to get the ash, the analyst may boil the 
ash with water, filter, and precipitate the phosphoric acid in 
the filtrate by means of ammonia-sulphate of magnesia, and 
afterwards weigh the ignited pyrophosphate of magnesia. 



52 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

Inasmuch as the analyst, in dealing with cocoa, will chiefly 
have to deal with mixed cocoas, I have bestowed some trouble 
on the devising of ready methods of investigating these 
mixtures. 

One of the simplest and most satisfactory methods of testing 
these mixtures is by cold aqueous extraction, as exemplified in 
the following experiments. 

First of all, I have experimented on the nib itself, as was 
obviously desirable, in order to be provided with a basis for 
comparison and calculation. 

Ten grammes of crushed nibs were carefully ground up 
with cold water, which had been measured before being 
employed, and which measured 200 cubic centimetres. The 
water was of course added gradually, and after very complete 
mixture the liquid was filtered. The first portions of filtrate 
having been thrown away, 50 cubic centimetres of filtrate 
were then collected and evaporated to dryness in the water 
bath, and the residue weighed. The residue was then ignited 
and the resulting ash weighed. The results were as follow : 
residue = 0*223 grammes ; ash = 0*054: grammes. 

Since, however (although 200 c. c. of liquid had been 
employed to extract the ten grammes of cocoa-nib), only 50 
c. c. had been actually evaporated down, it follows that only 
one quarter of ten grammes of cocoa had been actually made 
to yield up dry solid extract. The results, therefore, stand 

thus : 

Cocoa-nib taken, . . 2 '5 grammes. 

Dry extract, * . . . 0*223 

Ash of extract, . * 0*054 

Or, in percentage, 

Dry extract, . . , . 8*92 

Ash, . . . . . -2-16 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 53 

The completeness of this extraction by cold water, in the 
manner described, may be judged of by the fact of the ash 
obtained from the extract being quite as large in amount as 
the soluble part of the ash of the nib itself. 

Good cocoa-nibs, therefore; yield up to cold water the fol- 
lowing percentages of organic and mineral matter : 

Organic matter, .... 6*76 

Mineral matter, . . . . 2*16 

The mineral matter was found to consist, in great part, of 
soluble phosphate, and it might be useful to weigh the pyro- 
phosphate of magnesia obtainable from it by precipitation with 
magnesia salts. 

On applying the same method of investigation to a mixed 
cocoa, to Dunn & Hewett's commonest cocoa (which is 
professedly a mixture containing sugar, starch, and cocoa), 
price 6d. per lb., I obtained the following results : 

2-5 grammes of this cocoa yielded 
1*151 dry extract, 

0-026 ash. 

Or, in percentage, 100 grammes cocoa gave 

46.04 grammes of dry extract, 
1-04 ash. 

If we base the calculation of the percentage of cocoa-nibs 
on the ash, we arrive at the following results : 

Gocoa-nibs, 48 

Sugar, . . f . . . 42 
Starch, k , . . < . . 10 

100 

The object of the analyst in making examinations of mixed 
cocoa, comprises the question of adulteration with chicory 



54 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

and other analogous matters. And from this point of view 
the method, by means of cold aqueous extract, is very avail- 
able. 

The solution yielded by unchicoried cocoa to cold water is 
very pale in colour, whereas chicory (vide Part II.) gives a 
deep colour to water ; we may, therefore, avail ourselves of 
colourimetrical comparison in such investigations. 

For this purpose it is desirable to reduce the proportion of 
water, and to operate on 10 grammes of the cocoa with not 
more than 100 c. c. of water. 

Catechu in cocoa may be recognised by the great astringency 
of the aqueous solution. 

In reference to the different preparations of cocoa, and to 
the permissible and non-permissible admixtures of cocoa, the 
following extracts from an Act of Parliament more than fifty 
years old may be quoted. The Act dates 5th July 18227 
and is entitled, "An Act to Regulate the Manufacture and 
Sale of scorched or roasted Corn, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, 
and of Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other Mixtures of Cocoa." 

After enacting that persons not being dealers in coffee may 
roast and sell corn, peas, beans, or parsnips, a penalty of 50 
for roasting and selling corn under any other name is imposed, 
and then the Act proceeds : 

" And be it further enacted, That from arid after the Tenth 
Day of October One thousand eight hundred and twenty-two, it 
shall and may be lawful for any Person or Persons duly licensed 
to deal in Cocoa, who shall first make Entry of his, her, or their 
Premises, for the Purpose herein-after mentioned, at the nearest 
Office of Excise, and who shall not be a Scorcher or Koaster of 
Corn, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, or a Dealer in or Seller of scorched 
or roasted Corn, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, or have in his Possession 
any such Corn, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, to make and manufacture 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 55 

in such entered Premises, and with the Knowledge of the proper 
Officer, Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other Mixtures and Preparations 
of Cocoa with Sugar and Arrow Eoot Flour or other farinaceous 
Powder, such Arrow Root Flour or other farinaceous Powder not 
being baked, scorched, roasted, or otherwise disguised or altered 
from its natural State, except by being mixed with Cocoa as 
aforesaid, and to sell and offer and expose to sale such Cocoa Paste, 
Brorna, or other Mixture or Preparation as aforesaid : Provided 
always, that every such Person and Persons shall inclose all such 
Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other such Mixtures and Preparations 
of Cocoa as aforesaid, as soon as the same is made, and before the 
same is sold, offered, or exposed for Sale or delivered, in Paper 
sealed and stamped, or in some Pot or other Vessel to which a 
Stamp shall be affixed in such Manner as the Commissioners of 
Excise shall from Time to Time direct for that Purpose, and which 
Stamp the Commissioners of Excise shall from Time to Time 
furnish and cause to be delivered to every such Person and 
Persons as aforesaid, upon his, her, or their Request ; and upon 
such Person and Persons paying to such Commissioners for such 
Stamps so to be used Sixpence for every Stamp to be attached to 
a Pound Weight, and Threepence for every Stamp to be attached 
to Half a Pound "Weight, and Three half-pence for every Stamp 
to be attached to every Quarter of a Pound Weight of all such 
Cocoa Paste, Broma, or other Mixtures as herein described ; and 
if any Person or Persons shall make or manufacture any Cocoa 
Paste, Broma, or other Mixture or Preparation of Cocoa as afore- 
said, without first making such Entry as aforesaid, or shall mix 
with any Cocoa any baked, scorched, or roasted Material whatso- 
ever, or any Ingredient whatsoever, except as aforesaid, or shall 
keep, offer for Sale, sell, or deliver any such Preparation of Cocoa, 
otherwise than in the Manner and inclosed in the Paper or Pot as 
aforesaid, containing not less than One Quarter of a Pound, or 
more than One Pound, stamped as aforesaid, or shall use any 
such Stamp or Paper a Second Time, or imitate or use 
any Stamp for the Purpose aforesaid which shall not have 
been issued by or by the Order of the Commissioners of Excise, 
or shall use any Art or Contrivance by which the Officer surveying 
such Premises shall be prevented or deceived in taking a true 
Account of all such compound Cocoa, Broma, or other Mixture of 



56 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

Cocoa with Sugar and Arrow Root Flour, or other unbaked, 
unscorched, unroasted, and undisguised farinaceous Powder as 
aforesaid, or shall obstruct or hinder such Officer in taking such 
Account, every such Person and Persons in such Cases respectively 
offending shall for every such Offence severally forfeit and lose 
the Sum of One Hundred Pounds." 

From this it is manifest that mixtures of cocoa with 
starch and sugar have long been perfectly legitimate, provided 
no deception as to the strength in cocoa be practised. 

Chocolate presents no essential chemical difference from 
some of the forms of soluble cocoa,' but is different physically 
viz., being in cake, not in powder. It must of necessity 
be tolerably rich in fatty matter. It is manufactured from 
cocoa as follows : 

" The nibs are placed in a heated mill, called a melangeur, 
formed of a revolving granite table, with two heavy granite 
runners. When brought to the consistency of a smooth paste, 
sugar or sugar and farina (as is the case in the cheaper 
qualities) are added, and the whole well ground and mixed 
together. When thoroughly incorporated, the mill is cleared, 
and the partially-prepared chocolate is passed between 
three horizontal rollers, which thoroughly crush any particles 
not previously sufficiently ground. This operation is repeated 
several times, to bring the chocolate into a perfectly smooth 
condition ; it is then again placed in the melangeur to be 
finally mixed, when it is ready to be moulded into cakes or 
fancy forms." 

A form of cocoa which appears to be coming into vogue 
is the mixture of cocoa and condensed milk, which is sold in 
tins. I am making an examination of the contents of a tin 
supplied by the English Condensed Milk Company. 

In taking leave of the preparations of cocoa, it may be 
remarked that they constitute food rather than drink, being 
highly nutritious in every sense of the term. The fat present 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 57 

in cocoa viz., the cocoa-butterappears to be of a particularly 
available description. It is said never to become rancid, and 
merits an elaborate examination. Whether it be owing to pecu- 
liarities in the fat of cocoa, or whether it be the theobromine 
that is particularly efficient, certain it is that cocoa will some- 
times nourish when nothing else will, and cocoa is occasion- 
ally invaluable to the physician. 



PART IV. 



OR PARAGUAY TEA. 

THE beverages described hitherto are in pretty general use in 
England. Mate", which will next claim our attention, is not 
taken in England, but is drunk in certain hot countries. 

Of the three beverages already treated of, tea is the one 
which nearest resembles mate* ; but between tea and mate 
there is much difference in taste, and though I believe that 
mate* deserves some degree of popularity here, it should by no 
means be put forward as resembling tea, but as a new drink 
for the English people. 

Paraguay tea consists of the dried leaves of the Ilex 
Paraguayensis, and mate is the name of the beverage made 
by infusing these leaves. The general aspect of the leaves as 
occurring in commerce, calls to mind the appearance of senna 
as seen in the druggist's shop. 

The leaves of Paraguay tea are often very much broken 
down, and mixed up with fragments of the twig. 

According to an analysis of my own, Paraguay tea, as 
imported, contains 

Moisture, '. 672 

Ash, 5-86 

Soluble organic matter, .... 25*10 

Insoluble organic matter, . . . . 62-32 

100-00 



MATE, OK PARAGUAY TEA. 59 

Of the 5 '86 parts of ash, 4'46 parts pass into the infusion, 
and 1*40 part remains behind, along with the insoluble 
organic matter. 

Being a leaf (and not a seed,, like coffee or cocoa), the 
soluble ash consists mainly of carbonates of the alkalies, and 
not of phosphates. 

By soluble, in the above statement, soluble in hot water is 
designated, and the 25*10 parts of soluble organic matter 
represent the organic matter which dissolves in making mate*. 
Like tea or coffee, this infusion contains the alkaloid theine. 
The proportion of theine in Paraguay tea is said to be much 
smaller than that in tea and coffee. Probably this is true ; 
but in the present unsatisfactory condition of the processes 
for the estimation of theine, no very high degree of confidence 
can be placed in the numbers given for the theine in mate*. 
The numbers 0*13 and 0*44 have been given for the per- 
centages of theine in Paraguay tea. 

In addition to theine, the aqueous extract of Paraguay tea 
contains other nitrogenous matter, yielding, when boiled with 
alkaline permanganate, a far larger quantity of ammonia than 
could come from the theine which it contains. As has been 
mentioned in Part I., Chapter IV., 1000 grammes of Paraguay 
tea yield to water a solution from which 0'5 grammes of am- 
monia is obtainable on boiling with alkaline permanganate. 

The infusion of Paraguay tea is of a yellowish-brown 
colour and pleasant taste. When allowed to become cold it is 
also by no means an unpleasant drink. On being kept for 
some days it is very prone to become mouldy, some, which 
I kept for some time in my laboratory, having acquired a 
thick coating of moss. 



NOTICE. 

For the convenience of persons ivho may be engaged in making 
analyses of water, of milk, or of tea, &c., I have arranged with 
Messrs Townson & Mercer (89 Bishopsgate Street Within) for 
the supply of suitable apparatus and of standard test-solutions, 
guaranteed by myself to be correct. 



KOUMISS. 

N||V^ TRADE ^^gsS) 

MANUFACTURED Jf^SJ^J^ BY 

E. CHAPMAN &CO. Wifl I^M, 10 DUKE STREET, 




KOUMISS, a sparkling milk wine prepared of the best milk, has now, 
after four years' trial in this country, established its great reputation as 
the most valuable alimentary and tonic beverage in all states of catarrh or 
relaxation of the mucous membranes when accompanied by loss of strength 
and flesh. The Lactic and Carbonic Acids and Alcohol, tpgether with a 
minute quantity of certain fragrant associates, are so combined in the 
Koumiss as to stimulate the stomach and nervous centres "without affect- 
ing the head." A large quantity of very assimilable food can thus be 
taken by the feeblest stomach, especially as the caseine of the milk is so 
finely divided as to form, with the Carbonic Acid, a rich attenuated foam, 
and to predispose the other constituents to rapid transformation into 
lymph and blood. Fresh milk, even when mixed with spirits and soda- 
water, coagulates within the stomach into thick clots, and irritates it; 
whereas in the Koumiss the double process of fermentation has done 
nearly all the preliminary work which would fall otherwise on the 
digestive organs ; and these physical and chemical characteristics of 
Koumiss render it so invaluable in the treatment of debility and emacia- 
tion. The Lactic Acid it contains is a prime constituent of the gastric 
juice, and the state of vitality of the Koumiss (being a fermenting and 
not a fermented beverage !) gives it the property of greatly assisting 
digestion and assimilation. 

According to Russian, German, and our own medical authorities, it is 
settled beyond question that " Koumiss is wonderfully suited as a, form of 
nourishment for badly nourished, wasted, rachitic, or scrofulous children, or 
for convalescents ; and also that it can often cure cases of obstinate chronic 
diarrhoza, or old catarrh." See for this, and Wanklyn's chemical analysis 
of our various sorts of Koumiss, The Irish Hospital Gazette, December 
15th, 1873 ; The British Medical Journal of January 3d, 10th, February 
21st, and March 7th, 1874 ; Pharmaceutical Journal, February 28th, 
March 21st; and The London Medical Record, April 1st. 

Our own small pamphlet, with analysis, testimonials, prices of our 
articles, and all other, informations, may be had gratis on application to our 
Manufactory in London, 

10 DUKE STREET, PORTLAND PLACE, W. 

EDWIN CHAPMAN & CO,, 

MANUFACTURERS OF SPARKLING KOUMISS AND BLAND, 
Importers of Natural Mineral Waters, &c. 



Amongst the many spontaneous testimonials on view at our 
office, we insert the following : 

October 27, 1871. 

DEAR SIR, Many thanks for your letter. I have myself begun to give a 
fair trial to Koumiss in a young lady, who is dreadfully phthisical. She has 
taken Koumiss for sixteen days, and the change it has occasioned has been 
most remarkable ; she has gained flesh, her cough has diminished, and her 
complexion has become wonderfully clear and bright. I shall put another 
patient under Koumiss in a day or two, Yours, &c., 

EDWARD CHARLTON, M.D., 

Senior Physician of the Infirmary of Newcastle-on-Tyne, 
and Lecturer on Practice of Physic in the College of 
Medicine ; late President of the British Medical Asso- 
ciation, &c. &c. 



March 10, 1874. 

Dr Myrtle, of Harrogate, Yorkshire, writes : " I gladly bear witness to 
the value of this article of diet (Koumiss), and look upon it as one of the 
most important additions which have been made to the physician's reper- 
torium. It is quite as much a true therapeutic agent as a genuine food, and 
is capable of being successfully employed in cases where the stomach can 
neither do with food of the ordinary kind or physic." 



LONDON, October 11, 1872. 

Milk has been justly called the typical food, and is eminently fitted for 
children ; but for adults, and all those who not unfrequently cannot take 
milk, Koumiss is its true representative. The caseine and fat contained in 
Koumiss are in a state of fine division, and in a very favourable condition for 
digestion. The presence of the lactic and carbonic acids, and small quantities 
of alcohol, is, in my opinion, conducive to easy assimilation. The earlier 
forms of Koumiss form agreeable beverages. 

F. ALFRED WANKLYN, M.K.C.S., 

Corresponding Member of the Koyal Bavarian Academy 
of Sciences; Public Analyst for Buckinghamshire, 
Buckingham, and High "Wycombe. 



9 ARUNDEL TERRACE, BRIGHTON, November 13, 1872. 
I have been an invalid for the last twelve years, suffering from an affection 
of the heart, lung, &c. I have consulted some of the first physicians in 
Europe, and tried the most approved remedies ; but I can with the greatest 
truth state that I have derived more benefit from a pint of the Medium 
Koumiss at breakfast, lunch, and dinner, than from any other medicine, or 
diet, that I have previously taken. I have gained ten pounds in weight in 



eleven months. My wife and my son are also taking it with great benefit. 
I have recommended it to many of my patients with great advantage, &c. 

RICHARD DAWSON, M.D., M.R.C.S., and L.R.C.P., Lond. 



LONDON, April 4, 1871. 

Koumiss is a very assimilable nutritious food and potent medicine in close 
natural union. I have lived on Koumiss and bread, almost exclusively, for 
the last six months, with great comfort and increase of weight, after having 
been very much reduced in health and strength. Its genuine worth entitles 
it justly, therefore, to the popular favour which it continues to gain in 

Europe and Great Britain. 

CAMPBELL MOEFIT, M.D., F.C.S., &c. 



10 CHANDOS STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE, W., 
LONDON, May 25, 1874. 

A preparation from genuine cow's milk, called "Koumiss," has now for 
some time attracted my attention. At first I was sceptical as to the benefits 
which were said to result from its consumption, but a somewhat extended 
experience has thoroughly convinced me of its great value. In cases where 
nutrition fails, when strength and weight are being lost, the virtues of the 
Koumiss soon become evident ; the appetite improves, and the patient 
experiences a considerable iacrease of constitutional power. In cancerous 
destructions and other diseases of the large intestine I have found Koumiss 
of eminent utility, and can thoroughly recommend it to my professional 
brethren. 

WM. ALLINGHAM, F.R.C.S., 

Surgeon to St Mark's Hospital for Fistula and other 
diseases of the Rectum, Consulting Surgeon to the 
British Orphan Asylum, &c. &c. 



8 WEYMOUTH STREET, PORTLAND PLACE, W. , 
LONDON, May 20, 1874. 

The various sorts of Koumiss manufactured by the firm of E. Chapman 
and Co., London, W., have given great satisfaction to me and others in the 
treatment of anaemia, weakness of digestion and assimilation, emaciation, 
catarrh of the mucous membranes, in pharyngitis, laryngitis, bronchitis, and 
pneumonia, sometimes even at the most critical stages of disease and of 
diminished vital power. In chronic syphilis, scrofula, and other constitu- 
tional cachectic conditions of the body, but especially in the early stage of 
consumption, I rely upon Koumiss as the "first" amongst all remedies used 
for their treatment; it improves nutrition, raises strength, and alters the 
constitution advantageously. 

A. V. JAGIELSKI, M.D., 

Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, &c. &c. 




SPARKLING BLAND. 



MANUFACTURED BY 

EDWIN CHAPMAN & CO., 

10 DUKE STEEET, PORTLAND PLACE, LONDON, W. 



BLAND, the most agreeable and refreshing beverage, is made from milk 
upon a similar principle as Koumiss, so as to render it a valuable tonic 
stimulant. By its use the digestive organs are improved. The ginger, 
which is used chiefly as a flavouring, adds an aromatic and carminative 
property 5 but we prepare the Bland also with lemon, orange, and almond 
flavours. The medical profession recommend its use particularly during 
inflammatory and febrile diseases. It may also be mixed with wine, 
spirits, and beer advantageously. The Bland will keep good for an 
indefinite period. 



OUR SCENTED GLYCER-AMYGDALINE CREAM 

* 

Is a really useful addition on every Toilet-Table. 

During a cold, and in rheumatic affections, it may be applied with benefit to 
the forehead, nose, chest, neck, or any other painful locality. 

As a cosmetic it is very efficacious in rendering the skin soft and 
delicate, and it is quite unequalled for imparting a fresh and healthy 
colour to the face and lips. For the hands it is best employed at night, 
and with gloves on during the night. 

On the hair, moustache, whiskers, beard, it may be used as a pomade. 
It keeps them moist, soft, and in good appearance, besides promoting 
their growth. 

WARSAW GLYCERINE SOAP, 6s, per Dozen Cakes, 
or 6d, per piece, 



to 

vO 
Cvi 



cd 

H <D 



to o 

CD O 



* 
cd 



1 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD , 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



CW^ //or 7^ 



 



CrTEMPi: rpiVlTCP ITPPAPV 



s^ 



/C 






TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA. 



BV THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Crown 8vo, pp. iii-140, cloth, 58., 

WATER -ANALYSIS. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE EXAMINATION OF 

PORTABLE WATER. 

" Essential to e^ery Chemist whose duties may, by any possibilityi include the 
analysis of water." CA*m*oal Nem^. 



Crown Svo, pp. viii.-72, cloth, 5s., 

MILK-ANALYSIS. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE EXAMINATION OF MILK 
AND ITS DERIVATIVES, CREAM, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 

** Of the highest value to the practical analyst." PoIZ UaXL Gcuette. 
" May be safely accepted as an authority on the sul(ject." Boston Jowmal of 
Science. 



LONDON : TRUBNEB & CO., 57 & 59 LUDGATE HILL. 



TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA: 



A PRACTICAL TREATISE 



ON THE 



ANALYSIS OP TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, CHOCOLATE, 
MATE (PARAGUAY TEA), ETC. 



BY 



J. ALFRED WANKLYN, M.RC.S. 

COBRBSPOKDINO MEMBER OF THE ROYAL BAVARIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, 

PUBLIC ANALYST FOB BUCKINGHAMSHIBE, BUCKINGHAM, 

AND HIGH WYCOMBE. 



LONDON: 
TRUBNER & CO., 57 & 59 LUDGATE HILL. 

1874. 
[All rights reterved.] 



ex M ^^11- 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUfcST OF 

MRS. CHESTER N. GREEN0U6H 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 



^ 



PREFACE. 



This book is intended to form one of a series of Manuals 
for the use of Public Analysts under the Adulteration Act, 
and in writing it I have put forward the results of my own 
experience and observation. For much of the material, I 
am, however, indebted to the labours of others. To F^ligot, 
whose work on Tea is more than thirty years old, I am largely 
indebted, as will be apparent to my readers. Zoller's paper 
in Liebig*s '^Annalen" in the year 1871,1 have likewise 
quoted. To Mr Allen of Sheffield, as will likewise be 
observed, I am indebted for the titration of tannin described 
in its proper place. The ash of cofifee has likewise been 
investigated by Mr Allen. 

The part of the book relating to Tea has been in type since 
the beginning of May. To this circumstance the absence of 
all allusion to some very recent papers by Mr Allen and 
Mr Wigner is to be ascribed. In a general way I regard 
the most recent investigations as being favourable to my 
views as expressed in this book. 

In the part devoted to Coffee, I have largely availed my- 
self of the report by Qraham, Stenhouse, and Campbell, 
published by the Chemical Society iu the year 1857. 

In preparing the section on Cocoa and Chocolate, I have 



VI PREFACE. 

received great assistance from Mr John Holm, to whose 
excellent lecture on Cocoa and its Manufacture, given before 
the Society of Arts early this year, and published in a 
separate form, I beg to refer my readers. 

To Mr William Bettel, who has worked my new Tea-Assay 
in my own laboratory, and whose very careful analysis of 
cocoa-ash is published in Part III., I am under great obli- 
gations. The determinations of tea-extract marked W. B. 
were done by Mr Bettel for me. 

I am the more careful to make this acknowledgment of 
Mr Bettel's work, since the Chemical Society has recently 
disgraced itself by its refusal to receive him as a Fellow ; 
and since the Local Government Board has refused to con- 
firm his appointment to the office of Public Analyst of 
Middlesborough, on the ground that his chemical ability was 
not sufficiently established. 

It is not a novelty for either the Society or the Board 
to blunder; and in rejecting Mr Bettel, the Society has 
satirised the election of the great majority of its Fellows, and 
the Board the majority of its acts of confirmation. 



117 Chaslottb Strbst, Fitzrot Square, 
London, Sth July 1874. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAOI 

PART L TEA. 

CHAPTER I. 

INTBODUCTIOW, . 1 

CHAPTER II. 

THE ASH, 6 

CHAPTER III. 

THE EXTRACT : AND THE TEA- ASSAY, 13 

CHAPTER IV. 

*' FBEE AND ALBUMINOID " AMMONIA IN TEA-EXTBAOT. ESTIMA- 
TION OF NITBOGEN IN TEA, 18 

CHAPTER V. 

THEINE, 22 

CHAPTER VI. 

TANNIN IN TEA, 26 

CHAPTER VII. 

CALCULATION OF BBSULTB, 28 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

PART II 

PAOE 

COFFEE, 31 

PART III. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE, 43 

PART IV. 
MAT^, OR PARAGUAY TEA, 58 



TEA-ANALYSIS. 



CHAPTER L 

INTRODUCTION. 

Tea, as it occurs in commerce, is the prepared leaves of the 
tea-plant {Thea sinensis); and the different varieties of tea 
depend chiefly on the age of the leaf at the time of gathering, 
and on the manner of its preparation. 

The tea-plant appears to be indigenous to Ohina, but it 
also flourishes in Japan and in the Himalaya. The plant is 
described as a shrub growing to from four to thirty feet in 
height, and as usually five or six feet in height. 

The root of the plant is irregular and divided j the stem 
also divides into very numerous and irregular branches. The 
leaves are alternate. The flowers are white, and bear some 
resemblance to wild roses. They are usually about an inch 
in diameter. The plant is an evergreen^ and the flowering is 
continued very far on into the winter. 

The leaves present the following characters :  They bear 
some resemblance to the willow, being of course of various 
sizes. The border is serrated more regularly than the willow, 
but the serration just stops short of the stalk. 



TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA. 



4r TSa-AKALYSIS. 

nitrogen, the leaves having been analysed in the dry state, 
as dried at 100^ C. Daring the preparation to which the 
leaves of the tea-plant are subjected in order to fit them for 
the market, a quantity of juice is expressed from them ; and 
the rise in nitrogen in the prepared leaf is accounted for on 
the supposition that this juice is not so rich in nitrogen as 
the remainder of the leaf which is left behind. 

If the tea leaf be unique in containing an exceedingly high 
percentage of nitrogen, it is obvious that a determination of 
nitrogen in tea might be useful as a method of identification, 
and accordingly I shall devote a portion of a chapter to a 
description of the determination of nitrogen in tea, and 
organic substances in general 

A shorter and easier operation is the determination of 
albuminoid ammonia in tea-extract ; and moreover, the data 
so obtained appear to be characteristic of tea. I shall 
accordingly devote some space to this subject. 



CHAPTER IL 



THE ASH. 



In the common kinds of wood, such as oak, deal, &g,, the 
proportion of ash is a few tenths per cent Thus, taking 
wood in its ordinary air-dried condition, when it contains 
some 20 or 30 per cent, of moisture, Sprengel found 0*36 per 
cent, of ash in beech wood, and 0*20 per cent, of ash in the 
wood of the oak, and I have found 0*37 per cent of ash in 
common deal 

Leaves, on the other hand, contain ten, twenty^ or even 
thirty times as much mineral matter ; and doubtless there is 
a connection between this abundance of mineral matter and 
the active chemical changes which take place in the leaves 
during the growth of the plant. 

The following determinations of the ash in leaves dried 
completely at 100^ C were made in my laboratory last year. 
The leaves were gathered towards the end of August :  





Percentage of ash 




in dried leaves. 


Beech, 


4-52 


Bramble, . 


4-53 


Elder, 


. 10-67 


Gooseberry, 


. 13-50 


Hawthorn, . 


8-05 


Plum, 


9-90 


Willow, . 


9-34 



6 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

To these may be appended determinations of the ash of 
Paraguay tea and of common tea, viz.  

Paraguay tea, 6-28 

Common tea, 5*92 

In tea, therefore, as in leaves in general, the ash amounts 
to a considerable percentage, and a chemical examination 
of the ash forms an important part of the analysis of tea. 

The proportion of ash in tea is tolerably constant. 

In P^ligot's paper, published more than thirty years ago, 
the ash was given as follows :  

Ash per cent. 

Black tea (Souchong), ... 5*5 

Green tea (Gunpowder), ... 5*5 

Another kind of tea, .... 60 

Pekoe (black), 5-3 

A more recent investigation by Zoller (liebig's " Annalen," 
May 1871) gives the ash in air-dried tea, received direct 
from the plantations in the Himalaya, as being 5 '63 per cent ; 
and my own analyses, made during the last and the present 
year, have furnished the following results :  

Percentage of ash 
in air-dried tea. 

Common tea, . . . . . 6*63 

Civil Service tea, .... 5*56 

Homiman's tea, 5*99 

Mandarin's tea (at eight shillings per 

lb.), 5-3 

Orange Pekoe (at five shillings per lb.), 5*84 

...... 6-06 

Green tea (four shillings and sixpence 

per lb.), 5-86 

Very fine Himalayan tea ("Queen 

Elizabeth"), .   .6-00 
Himalayan tea (Pekoe), . . . 6*06 
Himalayan tea (Pekoe Souchong), . 5*37 



THE ASH. 7 

From all which it appears that the range of variation of the 
ash of tea is from five to six, and that genuine tea rarely 
yields so little as five per cent, of ash, and rarely so much as 
six per cent, of ash. 

The method by which the ash is determined is by incine- 
ration. A weighed quantity of the tea (from one to two 
grammes), in its ordinary commercial state, is burnt in a 
platinum crucible, and the resulting ash weighed. By observ- 
ing a few simple precautions very constant and accurate results 
are attainable. The crucible should be clean and bright (it 
may be polished with charcoal-powder); the lid should fit 
accurately ; and an iron triangle, covered with tobacco-pipe in 
a well-known manner, may be employed to support the crucible 
during the ignition. The operation is commenced by igniting 
the empty crucible, which is then allowed to cool, being placed 
for that purpose either on a clean piece of porcelain, or else on a 
clean piece of irpn. Immediately on the crucible becoming cold, 
it is weighed. The one or two grammes of tea is then put into 
the crucible, and the crucible with its contents is then weighed. 
It is then ignited over either a spirit-lamp, or else a good 
Bunsen burner, or else in a muffle, the contents being stirred 
up with a platinum wire. When the ignition is complete, the 
crucible is covered with its lid, let cool, and then immediately 
weighed. If there be any doubt as to the completeness of 
the ignition, the crucible is again ignited ; and if there be no 
diference in weight, the ignition is thereby proved to be com- 
plete. As will be obvious, in order to have accurate results 
it is an indispensable condition that the crucible should be in 
the same condition when it is weighed empty and when 
weighed charged with the ash, and this is insured by the pre- 
liminary ignition and rapid weighing as above described. 



8 TEA-ANALYSIS. 

As has been mentioned, genuine tea, as brought by hand 
direct from China, or from the Himalaya, or such as is a fair 
commercial article, does not yield less than 5 per cent, of ash, 
or sensibly more than 6 per cent. The analyst will, however, 
meet with tea in commerce which contains 13 per cent of ash, 
and even more than that. Such tea is sophisticated, and 
usually will be found to be sanded. Indeed, it is probable 
that the true ash of the absolutely clean tea leaf, in the 
ordinary air-dried condition, is about 5 per cent. ; whilst the 
6 per cent., or approximations to 6 per cent, of ash, which are 
sometimes met with, are probably due to a slight but 
unavoidable sanding of the leaves, which it would be exceed- 
ingly unfair to regard as an adulteration. 

When the ash much exceeds 6 per cent., the first question 
to be answered is whether that is accidental, or whether the 
high yield of ash would be maintained jl a large quantity of 
the sample were incinerated. The burning ^up of a large 
quantity of tea is inconvenient, and the following operation 
may be conveniently substituted for it. 

50 or 100 grammes of tea is weighed out (it is quite 
accurate enough if the weighing be witMn half a gramme) and 
boiled with about ten times its weight of water in a porcelain 
dish or a wide beaker. This boiling will wash the sand off the 
leaves, and the sand will sink to the bottom, whUst the leaves 
float in the liquid. When the liquid has been allowed to cool 
sufficiently, the leaves may be removed with the hand, and the 
liquid, together with the sand, may then be poured on a filter. 
The sand is then to be washed, dried, ignited in a platinum 
dish, and weighed. In tMs manner the sand yielded by 50 
or 100 grammes may be actually weighed. 

By way of example, I will cite an analjrsis of a sample of 
Caper tea which I was called upon to examine. The percen- 



THE ASH. 9 

tage of ash determined upon 3 grammes of the tea was 1549. 
In a second experiment 50 grammes was boiled with water, 
and the sand got out of the leaves washed, dried, ignited, 
and weighed. The sand weighed 4*181 grammes, equal to 
8.3G2 per cent, of sand, which agrees sufficiently well with 
the determination of sand by the ignition-process. 

The composition of the ash of genuine tea has been carefully 
studied. In ZoUer's paper, which I have already quoted, will 
be found a very elaborate analysis of the ash yielded by 
Himalayan tea. Zoller's numbers are the following :  



Potash, . 










39.22 


Soda, 










0-65 


Magnesia, 










6-47 


Lime, . . . . 










4-24 


Oxide of iron, . 










4*38 


Protoxide of manganese, . 










1-03 


Phosphoric acid, 










14-55 


Sulphuric acid. 










trace 


Chlorine, 










0-81 


Silica, . . . , 










4-35 


Carbonic acid, . 










2430 



100-00 



This analysis is especially important, inasmuch as the tea 
which furnished the ash was of guaranteed purity : and no 
question of the possibility of sophistication could arise. 

On inspecting the analysis, it will be observed that tea-ash 
contains a quantity of iron, and likewise some manganese. The 
presence of manganese is indeed so marked in tea-ash, that on 
subsequent treatment of the ash with water, I have myself 
obtained a deep- green solution of the manganate. Owing to 
the manganese in it, tea-ash also always evolves chlorine 
very perceptibly when it is treated with hydrochloric acid. 



10 TEA- ANALYSIS. 

Tea-ash is completely (or very nearly completely) soluble 
in hydrochloric acid. Most samples of commercial tea will, 
however, leave a slight insoluble residue of sand when the 
ash from them is subjected to the action of an acid. If 
necessary, this residue may be dried, ignited, and weighed. 
It should, of course, be trifling in amount : and here again, 
I cannot forbear repeating the caution not to mistake an 
accidental fragment of quartz in the gramme that m being 
incinerated for a serious adulteration of the sample. 

If a sample of tea should yield onlt/ the normal percentage 
of ash, and at the same time contam a considerable quantity 
of silica, such a combination of characters would afford the 
strongest evidence of sophistication. 

This will be evident, since the tea-ash is an essential part of 
the tea ; and if a part of the tea-ash be absent, the sample must 
have been deprived of at least the corresponding quantity 
of tea. 

Spent tea leaves contain less ash than genuine tea : accord- 
ing to Zoller they contain 3*06 parts of ash in 100 parts of 
the completely dried spent leaves. 

When the tea-ash is deficient, the explanation may there- 
fore be that genuine tea has been more or less replaced by 
spent tea leaves. 

If the analysis of tea-ash be referred to, it will be seen that 
a considerable proportion of the ash must be soluble in water. 
More than one-half of the ash should be soluble in water. 

For practical purposes, I should not recommend a complete 
analysis of tea-ash, but I should very strongly recommend 
determination of the ratio of soluble to insoluble portions of 
the ash. 

Such a determination is made by boiling the ash several 



THE ASH. 



11 



times with a little water, filtering, washing the precipitate on 
the filter, drying the precipitate, igniting it, and weighing it 

The weight of the insoluble part of the ash may then be 
subtracted from the weight of the entire ash, and in that 
manner both insoluble ash and soluble ash will be arrived at. 

The following determinations of the quantities of " soluble 
ash " and '^ insoluble ash,'' in 100 parts of various kinds of 
completely dried leaves, will be of^interest here :  

Name of leaf. 

Beech, 
Bramble, . 
Elder, 
Gooseberry, 
Hawthorn, 
Plum, 
Willow, . 
Paraguay tea, 
Common tea. 

In spent tea leaves the ratio of soluble to insoluble ash 
must be very different from what it is in genuine tea. 
Zoller's analysis of the spent leaves shows this very strikingly. 
Zoller's figures are  

Potash, 7-34 

Soda,  0-69 

Magnesia, 11*45 



Soluble 


Insoluble 


ash. 


ash. 


2-00 


2-52 


1-84 


2-69 


3-19 


7-48 


7-83 


5-67 


3-78 


4-27 


5-66 


4-24 


416 


6-18 


4-22 


206 


3-55 


2-37 



Lome,. 

Oxide of iron, . 
Protoxide of manganese. 
Chlorine, . 
Phosphoric acid. 
Sulphuric acid. 
Silica, 
Carbonic acid, 



10-76 

9-53 

1-97 

trace 

25-41 

trace 
7-57 

25-28 



100-00 



12 TEA-AVALTSIS. 

It is easy to see that an ash of this composition cannot be 
very soluble in water. 

In conclasion, I will mention the results of an experiment 
of my own, made with the object of determining whether the 
short stalks which are met with in every sample of genuine 
tea differ, as to their yield of ash, from the rest of the leaf. 
I carefully picked out a Quantity of stalk, and determined the 
ash in it, and found no difference between the percentage of 
ash in the stalks and that in the entire sample of tea. 



CHAPTER III 



THB BXTBAOT : AKI> THS TBA-ASSAY. 



The part of the tea which we really use being that which 
passes into the infusion  yiz,, the extract of tea  it is 
natural to look to the extract itself as affording the directest 
evidence of the quality and the genuineness of a sample of 
tea. We may regard the extract both quantitatively and 
qualitatively, and from the former point of view are led to 
the tea-assay, or determination of the weight of tea-extract 
which, a given weight of tea is capable of yielding. 

In F^ligot's admirable paper on tea, we find determina- 
tions of tea-extract, the author being quite alive to the 
practical importance of such a test. I quote F^ligot's results 
from his paper :  

BLACK TBA. 



Parts solable in Boiling Water, 
the Tea being taken 



" Souchong fin," 
Souchong ordinaire, 

Pekoe orange, . 



 



}> 



Dry. 


In its ordinary 
condition. 


457 


40-3 


46-0 


40-7 


41-8 


37-3 


40-3 


36-0 


34-6 


31-3 


381 


34-5 


48-7 


44-5 


46-8 


42-8 



u 



TEA- ANALYSIS. 






Puts aolable in Boiling Water, 
the Tea being taken 




Diy. 


In its ordinarj 
condition. 


Souchong, 


42-8 


39*0 


Congo, .... 


40-9 


36-8 


Congo bon, 


45-8 


41-5 


. n 


450 


40-7 


Bohea, .... 


44-4 


39-8 


Caper, .... 


39-3 


36-8 


Assam, .... 


46-4 


41-7 


The Java, 


36-2 


32-7 


Pekoe ordinaire, 


41-5 


380 


GREEN TEA. 




Poudre ^ Canon, 


51-9 


48-5 


n    


50-2 


46-9 


Imperial,. 


431 


39-6 


 


47-9 


44-0 


Ilyson, .... 


47-7 


43-8 


Hyson fin, 


46-9 


431 


Schoulang, 


46-9 


42-3 


Hyson Skin, . 


43-5 


39-8 


Toukay, .... 


42-2 


38-4 



These results were arrived at by the employment of a valid, 
but rather inconvenient method. P61ig6t weighed out ten 
grammes of tea, boiled it with water so long as anything 
dissolved out, and afterwards dried up the exhausted tea 
leaves, drying at first at low temperatures, and then at higher 
temperatures, and finally weighed the exhausted leaves. The 
loss in weight is the weight of the tea-extract : care being 
taken to weigh the original tea and the exhausted tea leaves 
in the same state of dryness. The results, as will be observed, 
are stated both on the perfectly dry tea, and on the tea in its 
ordinary air-dried or commercial condition. 



THE EXTBACT : AND THE TEA* ASS AY. 15 

Instead of weighing tea-leaves before and after extraction, 
and taking the difference in weight as the weight of the 
extract, there is another obvious process, viz., evaporating 
down the extract to dryness, and weighing it. . P^ligot tested 
his method by comparing, in one or more instances, its results 
with results got by the other process, and found them to be 
concordant. I have likewise made experiments, and deter- 
mined the tea-extract by both processes, and got the same 
result. There is, therefore, no question of the validity of the 
method ; but, as chemists will readily understand, it is very 
tedious and troublesome. The drying up of the exhausted 
leaves, and the getting of them into the same hygroscopic 
condition as the original tea, presents considerable practical 
difficulties. 

The evaporation of the infusion to dryness, and the weighing 
of the dry extract, is likewise a tedious process in its unmodified 
state. I have accordingly set to work to effect such modifica- 
tions as will render it at once easy, accurate, and rapid. 

With this object in view, I have made experiments which 
establish the following conclusions :  

(1.) K a given quantity of tea be boiled with successive 
portions of water, no more tea-extract is got than if the same 
tea be boiled once with a large quantity of water. 

(2.) I have boiled tea with 25 times its weight of water, 
with 50 times, with 100 times, and with 200 times its 
weight of water, and got as much extract with the first as 
with the others. 

(3.) Whether the infusion is kept for a length of time just 
at the boiling-point, or whether the infusion be made to boil 
vigorously, makes some difference in the result. (Brisk 
boiling extracts about one-tenth more than slow boiling.) 



16 TEJl'ASJlLYBIB. 

(4.) If the boiling be very vigorous, half an hour's boiling 
is as effective as an hour's boiling. 

(5.) 0*3 or 0*4 gramme of tea-extract, spread over the 
surface of a platinum dish capable of holding 100 c. c, dries 
very readily in the water-bath, and is very constant. 

Founded on these observations, I now work a tea-assay as 
follows :  10 grammes of tea is weighed out, and introduced 
into a fiask capable of holding about 700 c. c. Into the 
flask 500 c. c. of distilled water is accurately measured. A 
cork and bent tube is then adapted to the mouth of the flask 
(which should have a. stout lip), and a connection is 
established with a small Liebig's condenser. The contents of 
the flask are next heated and made to boil strongly, and 50 
c. c. is distilled over and collected. That having been done, 
the boiling is stopped, the flask and Liebig's condenser dis- 
connected, and the 50 c. c. of distillate poured back into the 
flask. The decoction of tea is then to be observed carefully. 
If quite clear, 60 grammes (or more accurately 50*3 grammes) 
are weighed out and evaporated to dryness in the water-bath, 
and weighed till constant. 

If the decoction be not quite clear (which most frequently 
happens), then it is to be filtered hot. The first small portion 
of filtrate is best thrown away ; and then 50*3 grammes of 
filtrate is collected, weighed, and dried up in the water-bath 
until the residual tea-extract becomes constant. 

The weighing out of the 50*3 grammes of decoction whilst 
still hot presents no real difficulties, inasmuch as the 
weighing error through heating does not amount to more 
than one or two centigrammes in such a case. For this 
purpose a rough balance (whose performance, however, has 
been tested) will answer very well 



THE EXTBAGT : AND THE TEA-ASSAY. 17 

As will also be obvious, there would be no great difficulty 
in contriving a measure to hold a little more than 50 c. c, 
and which would contain approximately 50*3 grammes of the 
hot decoction. 

Having done the operation in the manner directed, the 
weight of the tea-extract actually weighed will be the weight 
of the tea-extract yielded by one gramme of the sample to be 
assayed. 

The entire operation may be performed under two hours. 

The following determinations have been made in my labo- 
ratory :  

Specimen of tea direct ) ^ '^ 
from China, i ^ '^ 

Himalayan tea (** Queen Elizabeth") 
Himalayan tea (Pgkoe Souchong) 

  anotner sample 

Java tea (5s. 6d. per lb.) . 
Caper tea (4s. per lb.) 
Young Hyson (4s. per lb.) 
Choice Gunpowder (4s. per lb.) 

The above are either high-priced or else extraordinary teas. 



Fercentflf^e of tea-extract 


in air-dried sample. 




41-7 




40-2 




41-2 


1 . 


38-6 




35-4 


W.B. 


39-9 


W.B. 


40-8 


W.B. 


37-6 


W.B. 


42-0 


W.B, 


46-3 



CHAPTER IV. 

"FREE AND albuminoid" AMMONIA IN TEA-EXTBACT. 
ESTIMATION OP NITROGEN IN TEA. 

Tea-extract yields a comparatively large quantity of am- 
monia when it is boiled with potash and permanganate of 
potash, and it is probable that this character may prove 
very valuable in the testing of tea. 

In order to make these determinations^ I operate as 
follows:  First, a suitable infusion is prepared by boiling 
5 grammes of the sample of tea with 500 c. c. of water 
(vide chapter iii.), and filling up to the 500 c. c. 

Of this infusion 5 or 10 c. c. (equal to the extract from 
50 or 100 milligrammes of tea) is a convenient quantity to 
take. 

A solution of potash, containing about 10 per cent, of solid 
potash, and free from ammonia and nitrogenous matter, is 
required, and may be easily obtained, 

10 c. c. of this solution of potash having been put into a 
small flask-retort working in an oil-bath, and connected with 
a small Liebig's condenser, the whole apparatus is to be care- 
fully freed from the last traces of ammonia, which is accom- 
plished by simply distilling a little water through it. That 
having been done^ 5 or 10 c. c. of the tea-infusion are poured 
into the retort, which is corked up and heated in the oil-bath 
to 150 C. 



ESTIMATION OF NITBOGSN IN TEA. 19 

Having been maintained for a short time at that tempera- 
ture, it is lifted out of the bath ; some 50 c. c. of pure water 
are poured into the retort, which is again heated in the oil- 
bath. More than half of the water is then distilled over, 
and in this manner the *^ free ammonia " is obtained in the 
distillate. 

When this has been done, 50 c. c. of potash and perman- 
ganate solution (strength 200 grm. of KHO, and 8 grm. 
KMn04 in the litre) is added to the contents of the retort, 
and distilled so as to yield a distillate containing the 
" albuminoid ammonia." 

On making experiments with ulfusion of tea^ it appeared 
that the sum of "free" and "albuminoid" ammonia, 
obtained as described, did not differ materially from the 
albuminoid ammonia obtained at once by boiling the infusion 
with potash and permanganate. 

My results are as follows. The extract from 100 milli- 
grammes of tea gave  

Free ammonia, . . . 0*28 milligrammes. 
Albuminoid ammonia, . 0*43  



Total, 071 



 



And in another experiment, in which I omitted to take 
free and albuminoid ammonia in separate operations, but 
proceeded at once to get albuminoid ammonia, from 100 
milligrammes of tea the extract yielded  (Total) Albuminoid 
ammonia, 0*70 milligrammes. 

These experiments are made with very great ease, and I 
confidently recommend this method of investigating the 
strength of tea-infusion. (For the details of the method of 
measuring ammonia, vide " Water-Analysis.'') 



20 TEA'AJTALTSUL 

For companBon with tea-infiisioii, I am at present able to 
cite onlj two ezamplea viZb, infusion of gooaebeny leaves 
and inf osion of Faragoay tea^ 

The extract from 100 milligrammes of gooseberry leaves 
gave 

Free ammonia, . . 0-20 milligrammes 

Albuminoid ammonia . 0*295 ,, 



Total, 0-495 



i 



The extract from 100 milligrammes of gooseberry leaves 
gave also, total ammonia, not distinguished into free and 
albuminoid (Total) Albuminoid ammonia, 0*45 milligrammes. 
Paraguay tea gave, from 100 milligrammes  (Total) Albumi- 
noid ammonia, 0*50 milligrammes. From which it appears 
that tea leaves yield an extraordinary amount of ammonia 
when the extract is submitted to the ''ammonia-process." 
As has already been remarked in the introductory chapter, 
tea is remarkably rich in nitrogen, so much so, that a deter- 
mination of nitrogen may be resorted to as a means of iden- 
tification. 

Such a determination may be made by the well-known 
Qay Lussao method, which I will now describe. 

The sample of tea must first of all be well mixed up. 
With this object it is well to take several grammes and 
powder them in a mortar, and of this tea-powder some 0*3 
grammes should be accurately weighed out. This is to be 
mixed with some 50 grammes of oxide of copper, which has 
boon oxidised without the employment of nitric add, and 
which shortly before use had been ignited and allowed to 
cooL 



ESTIMATION OF NITBOGEN IN TA. 21 

A combustion-tube of hard German glass, which is closed 
at one end and perfectly clean, is then charged as follows ;  

At the closed end a layer, some three or four inches in 
length, of a mixture of dry bicarbonate of soda and fused 
bichromate of potash. This mixture is intended to give out 
carbonic acid. Next to this mixture come some two inches 
of oxide of copper, then the mixture of tea and oxide of 
copper, then more oxide of copper, then clean metallic copper, 
then a perforated cork and exit tube which dips under 
mercury. The combustion-tube is placed in an appropriate 
furnace. By heating the layer of carbonate of soda and 
bichromate of potash, carbonic acid is caused to traverse the 
tube and to expel the air from it. This having been done, 
the tube is heated gradually from before backwards, so as to 
bum up the tea. The gases are collected over mercury. At 
the end of the operation carbonic acid is once more made to 
traverse the tube by again heating the mixture at the back, 
and all the nitrogen is driven from the tube and collected. 
Finally the carbonic acid is absorbed by means of potash, and 
the residual nitrogen gas is measured with well-known pre- 
cautions. The gas should also be tested for binoxide of 
nitrogen by means of oxygen and pyrogallate of potash. Any 
binoxide of nitrogen gas must be measured and allowed for. 



CHAPTER V. 



theinb: 



Tea and coffee contain one and the same alkaloid, to which 
the names caffeine and theine have been given. The formula 
of this alkaloid is 

CsHioNA. 

It was first discovered under the name of caffeine in 1820 
by Runge, who got it from coffee. Seven years later Oudry 
discovered a crystalline substance  ^which he extracted from 
tea, and to which he gave the name theine. Jobst and 
Mulder afterwards showed that the active principle extracted 
from tea was identical with caffeine. By Pfaff and Liebig 
the formula of the alkaloid was settled. 

Theine is a substance which crystallises very beautifully, 
forming white silk-like crystals, containing an atom of water 
of crystallisation. The specific gravity of the crystals is 1*2 3 
at 1 9 C. The water of crystallisation is not altogether driven 
off by a temperature of 150 C. At 178 C. theine melts, and 
at 185 C. it sublimes. 

As deposited from aqueous solutions, theine contains an 
atom of water of crystallisation (formula CgHioN^Oa + HaO) ; 
but as deposited from solution in alcohol or in ether, or 
when sublimed, it is anhydrous. It is much more soluble 
in hot water than in cold water, or in alcohol or ether. 
According to P61igot, one part of theine dissolves in 300 



THEINE. 23 

parts of ether, and one part of tlieine dissolves in 93 parts of 
water at ordinary temperatures. It is a base of the same class 
as aniline and urea ; that is to say, it combines with acids 
pelding crystalline compounds, but it never neutralises an acid. 
When aqueous solutions of its salts are boiled, they suffer spon- 
taneous-decomposition, as a rule, and deposit theine. With 
chloride of platinum, chloride of gold, corrosive sublimate, 
the hydrochlorate of theine enters into combination, forming 
a double salt with each. 

Solutions of theine are precipitated by tannin, jdelding a 
white tannate of theine which contains 41 '9 parts of theine, 
and 58'1 parts of tannin. In tea the theine exists in com- 
bination with tannin. 

As wiU be manifest from its formula, theine is one of the 
most highly nitrogenous substances known to chemists, its 
percentage composition beiag  



c, 


96 


49*48 


Hio 


10 


5-16 


N4 


66 


28-87 


0, 


32 


16-49 



194 100-00 

Connected with its high percentage of nitrogen (almost 
double of that found in the albuminous substances), is its 
property of yielding abundance of cyanides when fused with 
soda-lime. 

According to Bochleder, this property of yielding a cyanide 
distinguishes theine from a number of organic bases  ^viz., 
piperine, morphine, quinine, and cinchonine. 

A cyanogen compound, chloride of cyanogen, is likewise 
produced by the action of chlorine upon theine. 

With the base of cocoa, which has received the name 



24 TEA-AKALTSIS. 

theobromine, theine is closely related, being methylated 

theobromine. Strecker has, in point of fact, produced 

theine from theobromine. This he accomplished by acting 

upon a silver-derivative of theobromine with iodide of methyl 

in a sealed tube heated to 100*^ C. : the reaction being as 

follows : 

Silver Theobromine. 

CrRrN^O^g +CH,I = Ag I 
Theine. 

Little more is, however, known of the structure of theine 
and theobromine. These bodies are apparently related to uric 
acid, inasmuch as, like it, when exposed to the successive action 
of nitric acid and ammonia, they yield a purple colouring- 
matter (Murexide). 

As has been said, theine exists in tea, not in the free state, 
but in the form of tannate of theine, which appears to be dis- 
solved by the excess of tannic acid contained by the tea leaf, 
and so it comes to pass that the theine makes its appearance 
in the infusion, instead of remaining behind in the exhausted 
leaves. 

The proportion of theine in tea has been variously given 
by different chemists. Mulder found 0*43 per cent, in green 
tea, and 0*46 per cent, in black tea. Stenhouse found 1*05 
and 0*98 in green tea, and 1*02 and 1*27 in black tea. 
F^ligot found 2*34 and 3*0 per cent, of theine in tea; and 
Zoller, whose research is comparatively recent (vide Liebig's 
"Annalen" for 1871) found 4*94 per cent, of theine in 
Himalayan tea. 

It would be a mistake to regard these varying results as 
showing that the quantity of theine in tea is very variable. 



THEINE. 25 

They only illustrate the difficulties which stand in the way of 
a quantitative extraction of the theine, and the imperfection of 
the earlier methods. In P61igot's paper these difficulties are 
referred to, and by making an attempt to extract the theine 
from a sample of tea the chemist will easily acquire a sense of 
the reality of them. 

The following is a description of the method for the extraction 
of the theine :  

A quantity of tea is boiled with a considerable quantity of 
water  viz., 200 grammes of tea with 3 litres of water. The 
infusion is then to be squeezed out of the leaves, which are to 
be boiled with a fresh quantity of water, and again subjected to 
pressure. This is to be repeated a third time. The several por- 
tions of infusion squeezed out of the leaves are mixed toge- 
ther, and treated with excess of acetate of lead and ammonia, 
which precipitates the tannin and the colouring-matter. The 
liquid is next to be filtered. The filtrate is then evaporated 
down to a small bulk, first over the naked flame, and after- 
wards in the water-bath. On being allowed to cool, the 
solution will deposit crude theine, which is removed by filtra- 
tion. The filtrate is afterwards nearly dried up in the water- 
bath, and the residue boiled with alcohol, which dissolves the 
theine out of it. From its hot alcoholic solution theine 
crystallises on cooling. 

A final purification may be effected by crystallisation from 
ether, and decolourizing with animal charcoal 

As will have been perceived, the extraction of theine will 
need improvement and simplification before it can be of much 
value to the food-analyst in his investigation of samples of 
tea. 



'A Ij. w/^.^jrt ^^ ^tWetMa. ''>M.^ ii '// *C/1 i'.W [>tT MUt, 

^^ n.n u'.ii^i.^A /^ tt-ti ttiiit.'in vitrumn iirii/^tmuM are in 
n^K 'tt.'-tK Ut  iiUf*.i''ii i/]f iiiMiiin hi n, NtAiMunl milution of 
tii-MUih, tlil:li (tt-i-HfU Ufiiiii Llio Well Itiiimii ijr(i|jnrty poi- 

Hi-mhit Uf if>.|Hllim iif riiHillMK I tiililx (i[>iiiiitiiimlN with 

rHMiiIti TIiIn IIIkiIIhii I iioir tinii,r, hikI U iiiliiiltlwl ti> bo vet; 
tMllniiH li> iliiiHH nliii tiHiH i.iiiiil,i,u'il IK A mwcli luote 

 " " ' Invmlj t,>*vlllwl 1^ Mr AlW (nW* 

''It. t>|^ nut H,l isit^, ,^^,wisla in 
1 MiWiUrt( nvstwluiH ^xf Wit the i\^t i>t 



TANITIN IN TEA. ' 27 

acetate of lead in water, which is diluted so as to measure a 
litre. This solution is filtered if necessary. 

The indicator is mgAe by dissolving 5 milligrammes of 
crystals of ferricyanide of potassium in 5 c. c. of water, and 
mixing that with 5 c. c. of strong ammonia. One drop of this 
solution is capable of colouring one milligramme of tannin dis- 
solved in 100 c. c. of water. 

The exact strength of the solution of lead is ascertained by 
trial with a standard solution of tannin. 

In using the solution of lead, 10 c. c. of it are first diluted 
with nine times their volume of water. The tea-infusion 
is then dropped into it from a graduated burette, until the 
liquid strikes a red with a drop of the indicator. Before 
using the indicator a little of the solution is filtered, and the 
filtrate allowed to drop on filter-paper, moistened with a drop 
of the indicator. 

The infusion of tea is made by boiling 2 grammes of tea 
with water, and afterwards diluting to 250 c. c. ; and it will 
of course be understood that the smaller the quantity of this 
infusion required to saturate the 10 c. c. of lead solution, the 
higher the percentage of tannin in the sample of tea. 
Mr Allen considers that this test is specially applicable for 
ascertaining whether black tea has been mixed with spent tea. 
Taking the normal percentage of tannin in genuine black tea 
as 10, and the percentage of tannin in spent tea as 2, he 
proposes the following formula for the calculation of the per- 
centage of spent tea in the sample :  

 (10~T) 100 
^ 8 ' 

where E = percentage of spent tea and T  percentage of 
tannin found in the sample. 



CHAPTER VII. 

CALCULATION OF BESULTS. 

# 

In coming to a judgment as to the genuineness of a sample 
of tea of which an analysis has been made, it is of importand^ 
to bear in mind that genuine tea is subject to considerable 
variation in composition. The condition of the leaf at the 
time of gathering, and the different treatments to which it is 
subjected in the process of manufacture  differences which 
determine whether the tea shall be black tea or green tea  
cause the composition of tea to exhibit a wide range of 
yariation. 

Taking the percentage] of tea-extract as the basis from 
which to start, we observe that in genuine tea this may range 
from 32 up to about 50 per cent. ; th4t is to say, imsophisti- 
cated tea, in its ordinary air-dried condition, may yield up to 
the action of boiling water from 32 to 50 per cent, of its 
weight. 

Such being the case, it is obvious that a determination of 
the percentage of extract will not enable the analyst to say 
whether the sample of tea consists of the lower variety of 
genuine tea, or whether it consists partly of the higher variety 
of genuine tea and partly of spent tea. In a general way, 
however, this is a question the solution of which is not of 
much importance to the public analyst. 

A little assistance, in such a case, may be derived from a 



CALCULATION OF EESULTS. 29 

detennination of the soluble ash, which would probably be 
found to be rather deficient. Although tea may be exception- 
ally rich in extract, and although there are difficulties in the 
way of deciding whether a given specimen of tea consists of 
average tea or of rich tea mixed with spent tea, there are 
no such difficulties in recognising the case of average tea 
mixed with considerable quantities of spent tea. For this * 
purpose it will be convenient to employ the formula :  



E = 



(32 R) 100 



30 



where E is the percentage of spent tea in the sample, and 
R the percentage of tea-extract found by the tea-assay. 

From an examination 'of the ash, data are obtained which 
may be utilised in the following formula :  

E = (628)20 

E being the percentage of spent tea, and S the percentage 
of soluble ash in the tea. This formula was proposed by Mr 
Allen, and is based upon the determinations of soluble ash 
brought out by me, and supplemented by Mr Allen's deter- 
mination that the soluble ash in spent tea is 0*5 per cent. 

It is assumed in this formula that the soluble ash in 
genuine tea is 3*0 per cent, and in spent tea 0*5 per cent. 

From the determination of tannin, as given in last chapter, 
the following formula has been proposed by Mr Allen :  

E = (10-T) 100 
8 

In using these formulse, it will of course be understood 
that the results ar^ only rough approximations to the truth, 
and great judgment and discrimination is required. 



so TEA-AKALTSIS. 

Of the other forms of sophistication, mineral adulteration 
will be dealt with through the ash, and adulteration with 
foreign leaves will show itself when the tea is examined 
botanically. Deficient nitrogen, deficient ammonia, and 
deficient theine, are all indicative of foreign leaves. 



PART 11. 



COFFEE. 

Coffee is a seed which grows in a pod, like the pea or the 
bean. The plant which produces coffee is a tree, Caffea 
arahica. ', It grows in Arabia, Ceylon, the West Indies, 
Brazil, and other hot countries. Before it is imported to 
Europe the coffee is deprived of the pod, and also of another 
covering. 

In commerce coffee is met with in three conditions  viz., 
raw or unroasted, roasted, and ground. As might be imagined, 
it is in this last condition that it is liable to the chief 
sophistications. 

According to Fajen, 100 parts of raw coffee contain 34 
parts of cellulose, 12 of water, from 10 to 13 of fat, 15*5 of 
dextrine, glucose, and an organic acid, 10 of legumen, 3 of 
indefinite organic nitrogenous substances, and 3*5 to 5. of 
double caffetannate of caffeine and potash. 

In addition to the foregoing, Fayen describes some 0*8 per 
cent, of free caffeine, and very small quantities of essential and 
aromatic oils, amounting to only 0*003 per cent of the coffee. 

Fayen's determination of the ash of coffee was too high, and 
need not be quoted. 



32 COFFEE-ANALTSIS. 

Within the last few months Mr Allen has published some 
determinations of the ash of coffee (vide Chemical News, 
voL 25, p. 140). He finds 

Percentage of ash. 

Specimen 1, 3*86 

,,2, 3-95 

 3, 4-20 

Mean * 4*00 

and adopting my plan of investigation, he has also determined 
the ratio of soluble to insoluble ash, and finds that the 4 parts 
of ash consist of  

Soluble in water, 3'24 

Insoluble, 0*76 

400 

This agrees very well with the analyses of coffee-ash which 
have been published, and according to which rather more than 
half of the entire ash consists of potash in combination with 
carbonic and phosphoric acids ; whilst the magnesia amounts 
to about 8 per cent., and the lime to about 4 per cent, of the 
entire ash. It is said that soda and silica are absent from 
coffee-ash, and great stress has been laid on this circumstance. 

The ash of chicory (which is the main adulterant of coffee), 
has likewise received attention from Mr Allen. It amounts 
to 5*06 per cent, of the chicory, and consists of  

Soluble in water, 174 

Insoluble, 3*32 

5-06 

from which it may be easily understood that an examina- 
tion of the ash would suffice to distinguish between coffee and 
chicory. 



COFFEE. 33 

As has been said, coffee is met with raw, roasted and ground. 
With the raw coffee and with the simply roasted coffee, the 
public analyst will have very little to do, and his services will 
be chiefly required in dealing with ground coffee. 

In the process of roasting, coffee undergoes certain changes. 
Before being roasted it contains from 57 to 7*8 per cent, 
of sugar, but after roasting, the percentage of sugar is not 
higher than 1*1, and sometimes it is even zero. {Vide 
Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell on Coffee in the Qv^rterly 
JournaZ of the Chemical Society ^ vol. ix., p. 33.) 

It appears, therefore, that the description of sugar which is 
present in raw coffee suffers destruction during roasting. 

A change in the condition of the fat of coffee is also 
brought about by the roasting; for, whereas ether extracts 
with readiness only some 4 or 5 per cent, of fat from raw 
coffee-beans, it extracts easily double that quantity from 
roasted coffee. So striking is this that Yon Bibra has even 
credited the roasting with the production of the fat^ but most 
probably the action is only mechanical in bursting the fat- 
cells, and thereby rendering the fat accessible to the solvent 
action of the ether. 

Boasted coffee is tolerably rich in nitrogen. It contains 
from 2'5 to 3*0 per cent, of nitrogen. This, as will be 
observed, is only about half as much as exists in tea ( Vide 
Part I., chapter I.) 

The operation of roasting tends to make coffee soluble in 

boiling water. Thus when raw coffee is perfectly exhausted 

by means of boiling water, it yields up 25 per cent., which 

pass into solution. Boasted coffee, on the other hand, when 

completely exhausted by means of boilmg water, yields up 39 

per cent (Vogel). These numbers appear to be rather high. 

C 



34 COFFEE-ANALYSIS. 

In actually using coffee as a beverage, we are not in tbe 
habit of making anything like a Qpmplete extraction, and 
only some 10 or 12 per cent, of the coffee passes into the 
liquid. 

Coffee is quite dovoid of starch. 

From the foregoing it will be perceived that the chemical 
characters of coffee provide tolerably satisfactory criteria for 
the recognition of many species of adulteration. 

The absence of starch in genuine coffee offers in itself a 
character which enables us at once to deal with a whole class 
of possible adulterants, including every species of grain. 

The absence of more than traces of sugar in roasted coffee 
can likewise be turned to excellent account; inasmuch as 
chicory, which like coffee contains no starch, is highly 
saccharine even after roasting. 

The percentage of sugar in roasted coffee ranges from 0*0 
to 1*14; in roasted chicory, on the other hand, the percentage 
of sugar ranges from 12 to 18. 

By the aid of the copper-reduction test this character may 
be easily brought out. 

For this purpose a standard solution of copper is required, 
which may be prepared by dissolving 34*65 grammes of 
crystallised sulphate of copper in 200 c.c. of water, and 
adding to it 173 grammes of double tartrate of potash and 
soda and 480 c.c. of solution of caustic soda (sp. gr. 1*14), 
the whole being subsequently diluted with water so as to 
occupy exactly a litre. This standard solution of copper 
prepared in this manner is of such a strength that 10 cc. are 
reduced by '050 gramme of grape sugar (CHuOe). 

The best way of using this solution is by taking a known 
volume of it, say 10 cc. accurately measured out, diluting 



OOPFEB. 35 

with three or four times its volume of water, boiling and then 
dropping into the boiling copper-solution the sugar-solution 
which is to be added, until the point is just reached when 
the copper-solution is exhausted. As the reduction of the 
copper-salt, to the state of r^d suboxide of copper progresses, 
the precipitate will accumulate, and at the same time the blue 
colour will fade from the solution. The last delicate reading 
is finally eflfected by help of the reaction between ferrocyanide 
of potassium and copper-solutions; and for that purpose a 
little of the liquid is filtered, acidified slightly with acetic acid, 
and tested with a drop of solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. . 

In this titration, as in all like cases, the piece of advice 
may be given, to make a rough and rapid estimation first, and 
then in a second operation, when the quantity is approxi- 
mately known, to make a delicate and careful reading of the 
exact point. 

If 100 parts of coffee when infused yield sensibly more than 
one per cent, of sugar, then chicory may be very strongly 
suspected : and a rough calculation of the quantity present 
may be made thus :  

(S 1) 100 



E = 



14 



Where in E is the percentage of chicory in the sample, and 
S the percentage of sugar. 

The circumstance that coffee-extract is devoid, or almost 
devoid of sugar, whilst many other natural products yield sac- 
charine extracts, makes itself manifest in many ways. The 
specific gravity of an infusion of coffee is very much lower 
than the specific gravity of an infusion of chicory, made from 
an equal weight of chicory. The following are the specific 



36 



COPPEE-ANALYSIS. 



gravities of infusion of a number of substances, as deter- 
mined by Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell in 1857. 

The solutions were made by taking one part of the substance 
(which had been roasted) and ten times its weight of cold 
water, and then heating gradually to boiling, and filtering 
through paper. The specific gravities of the solutions pre- 
pared in this manner were taken at 60 Fahr. 



Spent tan. 








1-0021 


Lupin seed, . 








1-0057 


Acorns, .   . 








1-0073 


Peas, . . . . 








1-0073 


Mocha coffee, . 








1-0080 


Beans, .  . . 








1-0084 


Neilgherry coffee, . 








1-0084 


Plantation Ceylon coffee. 








1-0087 


Java coffee, . 








1-0087 


Jamaica coffee. 








1-0087 


Costa Kica coffee, . 








1-0090 


97    








1-0090 


Native Ceylon coffee. 








1-0090 


Brown inalt, . 








1-0109 


Parsnips, 








10143 


Carrots,  . . . 








1-0171 


Bouka, . . . . 








1-0185 


Yorkshire chicory, . 








1-0191 


Black malt, . 








1-0212 


Turnips, . 








1-0214 


Eye meal. 






 


1-0216 


English chicory, . 








1-0217 


Dandelion root. 








10219 


Bed beet. 








10221 


Foreign chicory, . 








1-0226 


Guernsey chicory, . 








1-0232 


Mangold VVurzel, . 








1-0236 


Maize, . 








1-0253 


Bread raspings, . . 








1-0263 



Chicory has much greater colouring power than coffee, and 



COFFEE. 



37 



this character may be rendered available. One part of the 
sample is boiled with 2000 parts of water, and the solution 
cooled and compared with a standard colour, in a manner 
which will be at once intelligible to persons who are in the 
habit of using the Nessler-test. Graham, Stenhouse, and 
Campbell have also published an investigation into the 
colouring power of a number of substances. I cannot do 
better than quote the results. 

Name of substance which was roasted Volume of solution 

and then treated with 2000 times required to ^ve equal 

its weight of boiling water. colouration. 

Caramel, 1*00 

Mangold Wurzel, .... 1'66 
Bouka (coffee substitute), . . . 1*66 

Black malt, 1*82 

White turnips, 200 

Carrots, 2-00 

Chicory (dark Yorkshire), . . . 2-22 

Parsnips, 2*50 

Maize, 2-86 

Rye, 2-86 

Dandelion, 3-33 

Red beet, 3-33 

Bread raspings, 3*64 

Acorns, 5*00 

Over-roasted coffee, .... 5*46 
High-roasted coffee, . . ' . . 6*77 
Medium-roasted coffee, . . . 6*95 

Coffee, 6-66 

White Lupin seeds, .... 10*00 

Peas, 13*33 

Beans, 13*33 

Spent Tan, 33*00 

Brown malt, 40.0 



In this table, the greater the volume of the solution the less 
the colouring power of the substance. The numbers are. 



38 COFFEE-AKALTSIS. 

therefore, inversely as the colouring powers of the different 
substances. 

The above solutions were made by heating to 212"* Fahr. : 
but if solutions be made at ordinary temperatures, there is a 
far greater difference between coffee and chicory. 

Not only does chicory colour water more deeply than 
coffee, but it colours with far greater rapidity. No doubt 
the oil contained in coffee hinders the solution of the colour- 
ing matter by water, and more especially by cold water ; 
whereas chicory, which contains no oil, imparts its colouring 
matter to water with great readiness. AU this tends to render 
the colour-test, when properly applied, especially available for 
the detection of chicory in coffee. 

With regard to propriety of selling chicory with coffee, the 
remark may be made that it is certainly not right to sell a 
mixture of coffee with chicory under the name of pure coffee. 
It would, furthermore, not be unreasonable to compel the 
vendor to specify, approximately, the proportion of chicory 
contained in the mixture which is sold. This is especially 
desirable, inasmuch as chicory is far cheaper than coffee, and 
it is, therefore, necessary to protect the pubUc against having 
chicory passed off for coffee. 

But whilst admitting all this, I think it cannot be doubted 
that the mixing of chicory with coffee is really demanded by 
public taste, and that this admixture is made, for the most 
part, in order to meet the requirements of the public, and not 
with f randulent intent of any kind. 

The use of chicory along with coffee was originally a Dutch 
practice, and dates back about a century ago. For many 
years the nature of chicoried coffee was kept a secret by the 
Dutch dealers ; but in the year 1801 the secret was disclosed. 



COFFBE. 39 

At the present time the consumption of chicory has assumed 
colossal proportions, and in France alone the annual consump- 
tion of chicory is 6,000,000 kilogrammes (six thousand tons 
approximately). In short, there is no manner of doubt that 
public taste demands the admixture of chicory with coffee. 

Although, however^ such admixtures be demanded, yet it 
appears to be impossible to replace coffee altogether; and 
elaborate attempts made by the French during jhe war in 
the early part of this century were unsuccessful in providing 
any substitute for coffee. 



40 



COPFEE-ANALYSIS. 






oT 



o 
o 

p^ 
o 

W 

CQ 



H 
H 

s 

M 


lO 'lO 00 o COOt*. o - - 

*0 l-H ,-1 


o 

8 

r-1 


i 

o 


p :oocp -^oqioosi-i : : 

i-l  0 00 O O O 50 O - * 
0 pH I-l 


00 
CO 

oi 


< 

3 


CO -COGO O W O QD ^   

0 l-H pH 


00 

I 1 

 

8 

I-H 


Costa Bioa. 


oq :^^ cpop9cpoo : : 

CO -TjiOO OC0r-H5DO * ' 
O i-H i-H 


CO 

o 


1 


Q i-io eoo5;ocoo 

o : I-H <N t>. Tf oq I-l p : : 

*..       r^   

"^ '^00 OCOOOOi-H   


05 


^5 


0? oo?D ooooo20 

_       -    

C "^00 O Tj* o ^ "   


 

8 

I-H 


1,. 


pH  pH ^ ^ CO ^H ^ CO   

3 .-^00 o CO I-H r^ o   

O I-H rH 


CO 
CO 

 

8 

f-H 


Potash, 
Soda, . 
Lime, . 
Magnesia, . 
Sesquioxide of 

Iron, 
Sulphuric acid, . 
Chlorine, . 
Carbonic acid, . 
Phosphoric acid. 
Silica, 
Sand, . 



COFFEE. 



41 



o 
o 

W 
o 

o 

 



 


i^ 


 1 


1-1 *o 


<M .-1 ?0 


Od kO (M Od 


00 


1 


9 


 


CO 00 


to O kO 


i-H CO 10 i-H 


CO 


23 


CO 


to CO 


CO  '^Jf 


CO  


a 


o 


CO 








ft w 


a 


O 
















^ 


'^ 


8^ 


(M 00 CO 


CO io 


CO 


H 


o 


o 


CO CO <N 


00 t>- rH 


CO 


H 


 


 




   


 ^   


 


s 


25 


&1 


O CO 


lO 0 CO 


(M t>- <M CO 


Oi 


 


<N 








r-l (M 


a 


i 


* 

00 


o 




o 2^ 


CO CO 00 


00 !> i-H 00 


00 


i 


GO 


1 1 


<p <N 


rH lO ;D 


00 oq CO 


< 


^ 


o 


05 t* 


W O "^ 


(M rH Cq 00 


Oi 


s 


p-l 




t-i 


l-H 


a 


H 














1 


CO 


(M 


00 1> 


:-* oi CO 


00 CO i-< (M 


j^ 


1 1 

 

00 




00 (M 95 
CO '^ 


Jt* CD 00 CO 
rH 6 w 6i 

r-t 


00 

 

8 


E o 












pH 


s >* 














5 ^^ 














S 






















   

   

   

   


    

 *   

    

 *   

 * *  












^ 

i^ 





























Pi 


























.^' 










1 


J* 


a 


1 


S 3 3 


1^3 g 




 


Ph 


Cfi 


H- 


CQ 03 Q (li QQ 02 





 



OOFFEE-ANALTSIS. 



 
























-3h 

H O 


lO 


to 


CO 


i-H 


1^ 


rj* 


!> 


1 1 


l-l 


CO 


o 


Oi 


05 


T"* 


CO 


(M 


00 


CO 


04 


04 


04 


00 


|S 


t^ 


S 


r-H 


1-t 


 

I-H 


CO 


 
04 


CO 


 

I-H 


 

I-H 


 


r-t 


CO 


- 












I-H 


r^ 


Oi 


P 
























 


Tf 




lO 


S 


CO 


Oi 


l> 


5 


T* 


t^ 


04 




o 


 


00 


Tt< 


kO 


o 


O 


00 


tQ 


"^ 






 






 


 


 


 


 


 


 


H 


CO 


 


o 


CD 


o 


04 


'^ 


1 1 


CO 


o 


04 


s 


o 














r-t 


I-H 




O 


A( 






















I-H 


S 


Tj< 




59 


I-H 


Tl* 


o 


CO 




o 


00 


t^ 




 
 
 


o 


00 

 

o 


 

o 


1 1 

 


 
 
 




 

I-H 


04 

 

8 

I-H 




eo 


CO 


r-i 


04 


Tj< 


I-H 


Oi 


<r> 


n 


I-H 


00 


 


 


9 


CO 


 


*p 


 


CO 

 


I-H 


o 


o 


8 


T*i 


o 


;0 


'^ 


o 


04 


-* 


CO 


I-H 


I-H 


a 


5 


kO 














f-l 


I-H 




a 


s? 


Tj< 


ta 


O 


00 




I-H 


o 


CD 


CO 


t^ 


<3i 




 


 


 


r- 

 


 
 


I-H 

 


00 

 


kO 

 


 


00 


o 


CO 


t* 


r* 


CO 


 


04 


CO 


o 


to 


o 


I-H 


^^ 


CO 


i-H 














04 




o 




 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 

 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 



I 



o 



rH 'O 3 

.-a "  

OQ O fl H 'S 






. . . -S 3    S <g 



PARTIII. 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 

Cocoa, in Its various forms, and chocolate, are preparations of 
the seed of the cacao, or chocolate-free, a tree which grows in 
hot countries. 

This tree, Theobroma cacao, was cultivated in ancient 
Mexico ; and from the ancient Mexican civilisation we derive 
both the use of cocoa and chocolate, and also the names by 
which they are called in modern times. 

The tree is at present cultivated in Mexico, the West 
Indies, South America^ and Africa. It is an evergreen, 
growing from fifteen to forty feet in height. The seeds 
are found in pods, containing twenty to forty seeds in a pod. 
Before leaving the country where they grow they are cured^ as 
it is called. In this process a kind of fermentation is set up, 
which is allowed to proceed to a certain point, and then 
stopped. 

In the year 1520 cocoa was brought to Europe by Columbus, 
but the earliest record of its employment in England is in the 
year 1659. 

In modem England it is of considerable commercial 
importance, as the following figures testify. The quantity of 
raw cocoa imported into England for home consumption in 



44 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 



1820, was 276,321 lbs., and in 1873 it had risen to 8,311,023 
lbs. 

The seeds of the cacao, as they are seen in this country 
after importation, have the general appearance of almonds. 
They are brown in colour, and consist of a thin outer shell, 
and a more massive interior termed the nib. The shell is 
prolonged in the form of thin septa into the inner part of 
the seed. The relative proportions of shell and nib are 
approximately as 1:8, the nib being much the more 
abundant. 

They vary considerably in size. Single seeds may be picked 
out which weigh as much as 2*7 grammes, but the average 
weight is much less, viz., 1*2 grammes. 

Having, through the kindness of Mr Holm, obtained pos- 
session of authentic specimens of the chief varieties of cacao 
seeds at present in the market, I have made the following 
determinations of the weights of the different sorts of 
seeds :  



Names of Cocoa. 










Weight of 100 Seeds 


Grammes. 


CoTmnon Trinidad, ..... 98* 


Fair good Trinidad, 










123*2 


Very fine Trinidad, 










178*7 


Medium Grenada,  










104*5 


Fine Qrenada, 










131. 


Caracas, 










130*3 


Dominican, . 










110- 


Fine Surinam, 










122. 


Fine Surinam (small) 










71-6 


Bahia (Brazil), 










118- 


Mexican, 










136*5 


African, 










128- 



The fpllowing analysis of the seeds may be quoted from 
Mr Holm's admirable lecture delivered to the Society of Arts* 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 



45 



,10 aoTuaAy 



8 . 8 

  ^ 



O 



00 



.ss 

   

OQO 



:gP 






.8 



o 



o 
o 



*HaxaK 






:<? 
 



 O ^ 



>0) 



 ps ^ o '^ 



>o)co -lo 'coioo *e<i * 



8 



'HonuaHasxiH 



^^ ^^      ^7   



O) 00 



8 8 . 

lo CO  



00 



.coo 

   



 O 

o 



ooo 

OCOaO 

>    



.OOO .O 

      

eoOiH "CO 



r-l 



8 



navoNissnoa 






.8 

  



,8 8 

CO CO 






O 

o 



8 

8 



aanijif 



8 8 

5 iH 



ss 



       

 -iH    CO 



'HaxBasKvrx 



8 8.. 



oo . -ooopo 



bCO 



"^<NiOC<I"^ 



*K08K90f 



to 



  o   o 

      



    ^^ ^^ 

      

   'tac<t 



saATj 



8 8 

/  ^ 



. .8 . .8 . |888 

 'O  -c^ : otfow^ 

iH M iH 



*NaHonx 



d>   C^iH .toco .o cooioo .^ o 

S2 'S"* "OO -P 'COCOOCO -b* iH 

C9 CO CO 



'saiaadicTq 



Soo 
iH 



O 
00 



   



    

Ofc*0 



;p^ 

'9^ lb 



CO 



I 

.a 



a 



00 M 



s 

a 

s 

1-^ 






o 

r4 



0) 

1 

o 






1-2 



8 
8 



8 
8 



'3 

I 



46 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 



From this, it will be seen that the most abandant con- 
stituent of the seed is the fat, or cocoa butter, which con- 
stitutes about half of the entire seed. Owing, no doubt, to 
this circumstance, the specific gravity of the seeds is less 
than unity, and the seeds float on water : after being kept for 
some days in contact with the water, some of the fat makes 
its escape from the seed, which sinks down to the bottom. 

I attach great importance to the determination of the ash. 
The following determinations of ash have been recently made 
in my laboratory :  



Percentage of Ash. 
3-37 
3-62 
3-64 
3*12 
3-06 
4-58 
3-31 
3-06 
315 
4-27 
2-82 
2-68 
3.39 



Common Trinidad, . 

Very fine Trinidad, . 

Fair good fine Trinidad, 

Fine Grenada, . 

Medium Qrenada, 

Caracas, 

Bahia (Brazil),  

Fine Surinam, . 

Fine Surinam (Small), 

Mexican,  

Dominican, 

African, 

The mean of the 12 being 

Separate determinations of the ash of the nib and the shell 
have also been made. 

In the nib of the Caracas, the ash amounted to 3*95 per 
cent., whereof 2*00 was soluble in water, and 1*95 insoluble 
in water. 

In the nib of the Mexican seeds, the ash was found to be 
2*59 per cent. : whereof 0*89 was soluble, and 1*70 insoluble 
in water. The shell (which, as mentioned above, forms only 
a very small proportion of the entire seed) is much richer in 
mineral matter or ash. I haye found as much as 7.81 per 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 



47 



cent, of ash in the shell. The composition of the ash of the 
shell is very different from that of the nib ; whilst the ash of 
the shell is rich in carbonates, that of the nib is almost 
devoid of carbonates. 

A very careful analysis of the ash of the entire seed has 
been recently made by my friend, Mr William Bettel, in my 
laboratory. The results are as follows :  

Composition of Ash of the entire seeds {Caracas). 



Potash KjO . . . . 


29-81 


Chloride of Sodium Na CI 


610 


Peroxide of Iron Fi, 0, . 


1-60 


Alumina, Al, 0,  . . 


2-40 


Lime, Ca . 


772 


Magnesia, Mg .  . 


 . . 7-90 


Phosphoric Acid Pj 0* . 


24-28 


Sulphuric Acid, SOs 


1-92 


Carbonic Acid, COj 


0-98 


SiUca, SiO, . 


6-00 


Sand .... 


12-15 



99-86 



From this analysis it is apparent that the main constituent 
of the ash is phosphate of potash, and that there is almost 
total absence of carbonates. The ash of the shell being, as 
has been said, highly charged with carbonates, it follows that, 
in obtaining the ash of the entire seed, we cause the phos- 
phates of the nib to decompose the carbonates of the shell, 
and so obtain an ash devoid of carbonates. 

The large proportion of phosphate of potash in cocoa (cer- 
tainly not far short of one per cent, in the cacao seed of 
good quality) is worthy the attention of the physician, and 
no doubt gives an especial value to a dietary consisting 



48 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

largely of cocoa. It will further be observed that the fine 
kinds of cacao seed are rich in phosphate of potash. 

In making analyses of the various preparations of the cacao 
seed, considerable use may be made of the determination of 
ash, as will be explained by and by. 

The Theobromine is the alkaloid of cocoa. Its formula 

is  

C, Hs N4 0, 

being, as has been said, closely related to theine, the alkaloid 
of tea and coffee, which is a methylated derivative of theo- 
bromine. Theobromine is richer in nitrogen than theine, as 
may be seen on comparing its percentage composition with 
that of theine. 

Cr. 84 46-67 

Hg 8 4-44 

N4. ...... 56 31-11 

O2. 32 17-78 

180 100-00 

Theobromine differs from theine by not forming silk-like 
crystals, being nearly amorphous. It is, likewise,, far less 
soluble in alcohol. It sublimes between 290 and 295 C. 

Its extraction is very similar to the extraction of theine. 
The cacao is boiled with successive portions of water; the solu- 
tion is precipitated with neutral acetate of lead, the excess of 
lead being precipitated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and the 
filtrate is evaporated down. The thick residue so obtained is 
boiled with alcohol, and the alcoholic solution filtered 
boiling. On cooling, the alcoholic solution deposits the 
theobromine in a coloured form, susceptible of purification 
in various ways. 



s 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 49 

Theobromine, like tyrosine^ dissolves in ammonia much 
more freely than in water. 

The cacao seed, in its unprepared condition, is not an 
article of retail trade. Before it reaches the consumer it 
requires much preparation, and without such preparation is in 
as impracticable a qpndition as unground grain before the 
miller has converted it into flour. 

Floke Cocoa, which is one of the simplest preparations of 
the cacao seed, consists of the seed simply crushed, without 
separation of the shell (or husk) into the form of flakes. It 
is by no means a desirable form of cocoa, inasmuch as the 
husk is irritating to the intestines, and apt to give rise to a 
peculiar form of dysentery ; moreover, it requires a great deal 
of cooking in order to render it palatable. 

Cocoa-Nibs,  To prepare the nibs, the cacao seeds are 
roasted, crushed (but not powdered), and then winnowed 
from the husk. This is a much better preparation than the 
jiake, inasmuch as it is free from the husk. The drawback to 
its use is, that it requires a very prolonged boiling in order to 
become available for food. v 

Soliihl^moa,  There are two methods of making soluble 
cocoa : (1.) By taking the nibs, expressing a portion of the fat, 
and powdering the residue. (2.) By adding farina to the nib 
containing the whole of its fat, and then powdering. (Dunn 
and Hewett.) 

The exact details of the manufacture are quoted from Mr 
Holm's lectures to the Society of Arts :-*- 

^^ The mode of manufacture of soluble cocoa or chocolate powder 
is as follows :  The raw nuts are first picked in order to remove 
any mouldy or damaged nuts, the presence of which would 
injure the flavour of the cocoa. The picked nuts are then placed 



50 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

in revolving heated cylinders. When sufficiently roasted  a 
process which takes from three-quarters of an hour to an hour 
and a half they are either spread out thinly on a grating, or 
placed in coolers so constructed as to offer a large conducting 
surface, and are thus rapidly cooled down. The roasted nuts are 
then conveyed to a kibbling-mill supplied with fans ; the cocoa 
is here broken down and the shell winnowe^ from the nib. When 
this operation is fully effected, the nibs are slightly warmed before 
being ground. 

" A cocoa-mill constructed to reduce the nibs into a fine paste 
consists of two parts  ^viz., the feed-mill and the grinding-milL 
The object of the feed-mill is merely to regulate the supply of 
cocoa sent into the grinding-milL The latter is not unlike a 
flour-miU, consisting of a horizontal bed, on which revolves a 
runner. These mills have to be heated, and the cocoa runs from 
them in a smooth, semi-liquid condition, when it is ready for incor- 
poration with the sugar and farinaceous substances with which 
it is to be mixed. It is afterwards reduced to a powder. This 
powder may be made either fine or coarse, it being a question of 
merely manipulative process, which has no relation to quality. 
If required very fine, it may have to be more completely pulverised 
in another mill. But whether coarse in grain or fine matters not ; 
the cocoa is the same in quality  that is, either fine or common 
preparations may have either appearance. With slight variations 
of process, this ^is the only way in which soluble cocoa powder 
can be produced ; that is, it must contain sugar and farina. The 
cocoa being, in the first place, very finely ground, the sugar causes 
it to mix readily, while the farinaceous substance holds the par- 
ticles of cocoa in suspension, and the whole forms an emulBion.*' 

The disadvantage of the soluble cocoa prepared from the 
nib by simple expression of part of the fat, and then powder- 
ing, is, that it requires boiling in order to become available. 
The merit of the other mode of preparation, with starch and 
sugar, is, that simple mixing with boiling water is all the pre- 
paration required in order to become available for use. 

The former of these kinds of soluble cocoa has been rather 



COOOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 51 

unfairly extolled as being pure cocoa ; but it is much dearer 
than the latter, and is impoverished of a certain portion of 
fat 

Between these two kinds of soluble cocoa there are very 
obvious differences in chemical character. The former is 
necessarily rich in nlineral matter, and the latter is compara- 
tively poor. 

The following determinations illustrate this fact :  

Percentage of ash. 

(1.) Cocoa powder (by abstraction of part of 

butter), 3-47 

(2.) Soluble cocoa (by mixture with starch and 

sugar), 1*45 

(3.) Dunn <fe Hewett's commonest cocoa, . . 171 

(4.) Chocolate, 1-11 

A determination of the ratio of fat to ash in the sample of 
soluble cocoa would obviously afford information. 

With regard to the mixed cocoa and to chocolate (which is, 
in fact, a variety of mixed cocoa), a clue to the proportion of 
cocoa-nibs in the mixture may be derived from the percentage 
of ash yielded by the mixture. It is impossible for a larger 
proportion of nibs to be present in the mixture than is indi- 
cated by the ash. In the three mixtures which furnished 
1*45, 1'71, and 1*11 per cent, of ash respectively, there cannot 
possibly be more than 50 per cent, of real cocoa-nib. 

Advantage may likewise be taken of the fact that the ash 
consists to a great extent of soluble phosphates j and having 
burnt a sample so as to get the ash, the analyst may boil the 
ash with water, filter, and precipitate the phosphoric acid in 
the filtrate by means of ammonia-sulphate of magnesia, and 
afterwards weigh the ignited pyrophosphate of magnesia. 



52 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

Inasmuch as the analyst, in dealing with cocoa, will chiefly 
have to deal with mixed cocoas, I have- bestowed some trouble 
on the devising of ready methods of investigating these 
mixtures. 

One of the simplest and most satisfactory methods of testing 
these mixtures is by cold aqueous extract'^, as exemplified in 
the following experiments. 

First of all, I have experimented on the nib itself, as was 
obviously desirable, in order to be provided with a basis for 
comparison and calculation. 

Ten grammes of crushed nibs were carefully ground up 
with cold water, which had been measured before being 
employed, and which measured 200 cubic centimetres. The 
water was of course added gradually, and after very complete 
mixture the liquid was filtered. The first portions of filtrate 
having been thrown away, 50 cubic centimetres of filtrate 
were then collected and evaporated to dryness in the water 
bath, and the residue weighed. The residue was then ignited 
and the resulting ash weighed. The results were as follow : 
residue = 0*223 grammes j ash = 0*054 grammes. 

Since, however (although 200 c. c. of liquid had been 

employed to extract the ten grammes of cocoa-nib), only 50 

c. c. had been actually evaporated down, it follows that only 

one quarter of ten grammes of cocoa had been actually made 

to yield up dry solid extract. The results, therefore, stand 

thus :  

Cocoa-nib taken, . . 2*5 grammes; 

Dry extract,  . . . 0*223  

Ash of extract, . . . 0*054  

Or, in percentage. 

Dry extract, .... 8*92 
Ash, 2'16 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 63 

The completeness of this extraction by cold water^ in the 
manner described, may be judged of by the fact of the ash 
obtained from the extract being quite as large in amount as 
the soluble part of the ash of the nib itself. 

Good cocoa-nibs, therefore, yield up to cold water the fol- 
lowing percentages of organic and mineral matter :  

Organic matter, .... 6*76 

Mineral matter, .... 2*16 

The mineral matter was found to consist, in great part, of 
soluble phosphate, and it might be useful to weigh the pyro- 
phosphate of magnesia obtainable from it by precipitation with 
magnesia salts. 

On applying the same method of investigation to a mixed 
cocoa, to Dunn <& Hewett's commonest cocoa (which is 
professedly a mixture containing sugar, starch, and cocoa), 
price 6d. per lb., I obtained the following results :  

2*5 grammes of this cocoa yielded 
1*151  dry extract 

0*026  ash. 

Or, in percentage, 100 grammes cocoa gave 

46.04 grammes of dry extract, 
1-04  ash. 

If we base the calculation of the percentage of cocoa-nibs 
on the ash, we arrive at the following results :  

Cocoa-nibs, . . . . . 48 

Sugar, 42 

Starch, 10 

100 

The object of the analyst in making examinations of mixed 
cocoa, comprises the question of adulteration with chicory 



54 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

and other analogous matters. And from this point of view 
the method, by means of cold aqueous extract, is very avail- 
able. 

The solution yielded by unchicoried cocoa to cold water is 
very pale in colour, whereas chicory (vide Part II.) gives a 
deep colour to water ; we may, therefore, avail ourselves of 
colourimetrical comparison in such investigations. 

For this purpose it is desirable to reduce the proportion of 
water, and to operate on 10 grammes of the cocoa with not 
more than 100 c. c. of water. 

Catechu in cocoa may be recognised by the great astringency 
of the aqueous solution. 

In reference to the different preparations of cocoa, and to 
the permissible and non-permissible admixtures of cocoa, the 
following extracts from an Act of Parliament more than fifty 
years old may be quoted. The Act dates 5th July 1822, 
and is entitled, "An Act to Eegulate the Manufacture and 
Sale of scorched or roasted Corn, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, 
and of Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other Mixtures of Cocoa." 

After enacting that persons not being dealers in coffee may 
roast and sell corn, peas, beans, or parsnips, a penalty of 50 
for roasting and selling com under any other name is imposed, 
and then the Act proceeds :  

" And be it further enacted. That from and after the Tenth 
Day of October One thousand eight hundred and twenty-two, it 
shall and may be lawful for any Person or Persons duly licensed 
to deal in Cocoa, who shall first make Entry of his, her, or their 
Premises, for the Purpose herein-after mentioned, at the nearest 
Office of Excise, and who shall not be a Scorcher or Roaster of 
Com, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, or a Dealer in or Seller of scorched 
or roasted Com, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, or have in his Possession 
any such Com, Peas, Beans, or Parsnips, to make and manufacture 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 55 

in Bucli entered Premises, and with the Knowledge of the proper 
Officer, Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other Mixtures and Preparations 
of Cocoa with Sugar and Arrow Root Flour or other farinaceous 
Powder, such Arrow Root Flour or other farinaceous Powder not 
being baked, scorched, roasted, or otherwise disguised or altered 
from its natural State, except by being mixed with Cocoa as 
aforesaid, and to sell and offer and expose to sale such Cocoa Paste, 
Broma, or other Mixture or Preparation as aforesaid : Provided 
always, that every such Person and Persons shall inclose all such 
Cocoa Paste, Broma, and other such Mixtures and Preparations 
of Cocoa as aforesaid, as soon as the same is made, and before the 
same is sold, offered, or exposed for Sale or delivered, in Paper 
sealed and stamped, or in some Pot or other Vessel to which a 
Stamp shall be affixed in such Manner as the Commissioners of 
Excise shall from Time to Time direct for that Purpose, and which 
Stamp the Commissioners of Excise shall from Time to Time 
furnish and cause to be delivered to every such Person and 
Persons as aforesaid, upon his, her, or their Request ; and upon 
such Person and Persons paying to such Commissioners for such 
Stamps so to be used Sixpence for every Stamp to be attached to 
a Pound Weight, and Threepence for every Stamp to be attached 
to Half a Pound "Weight, and Three half-pence for every Stamp 
to be attached to every Quarter of a Pound Weight of all such 
Cocoa Paste, Broma, or other Mixtures as herein described ; and 
if any Person or Persons shall make or manufacture any Cocoa 
Paste, Broma, or other Mixture or Preparation of Cocoa as afore- 
said, without first making such Entry as aforesaid, or shall mix 
with any Cocoa any baked, scorched, or roasted Material whatso- 
ever, or any Ingredient whatsoever, except as aforesaid, or shall 
keep, offer for Sale, sell, or deliver any such Preparation of Cocoa, 
otherwise than in the Manner and inclosed in the Paper or Pot as 
aforesaid, containing not less than One Quarter of a Pound, or 
more than One Pound, stamped as aforesaid, or shall use any 
such Stamp or Paper a Second Time, or imitate or use 
any Stamp for the Purpose aforesaid which shall not have 
been issued by or by the Order of the Commissioners of Excise, 
or shall use any Art or Contrivance by which the Officer surveying 
such Premises shall be prevented or deceived in taking a true 
Account of all such compound Cocoa, Broma, or other Mixture of 



56 COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 

Cocoa with. Sugar and Arrow Root Flonr, or other unbaked, 
tmscorclied, unroasted, and undisguised farinaceous Powder as 
aforesaid, or shaU obstruct or hinder such Officer in taking such 
Account, every such Person and Persons in such Cases respectively 
offending shcdl for every such Offence severally forfeit and lose 
the Sum of One Hundred Pounds." 

From this it is manifest that mixtures of cocoa with 
starch and sugar have long been perfectly legitimate, provided 
no deception as to the strength in cocoa be practised. 

Chocolate presents no essential chemical difference from 
some of the forms of soluble cocoa,' but is different physicaUy 
viz., being in cake, not in powder. It must of necessity 
be tolerably rich in fatty matter. It is manufactured rom 
cocoa as follows :  

" The nibs are placed in a heated mill, called a melangeur, 
formed of a revolving granite table, with two heavy granite 
runners. When brought to the consistency of a smooth paste, 
sugar or sugar and farina (as is the case in the cheaper 
qualities) are added, and the whole well ground and mixed 
together. When thoroughly incorporated, the mill is cleared, 
and the partially-prepared chocolate is passed between 
three horizontal rollers, which thoroughly crush any particles 
not previously sufficiently ground. This operation is repeated 
several times, to bring the chocolate into a perfectly smooth 
condition ; it is then again placed in the mMarigmr to be 
finally mixed, when it is ready to be moulded into cakes or 
fancy forms." 

A form of cocoa which appears to be coming into vogue 
is the mixture of cocoa and condensed milk, which is sold in 
tins. I am making an examination of the contents of a tin 
supplied by the English Condensed Milk Company. 

In taking leave of the preparations of cocoa, it may be 
remarked that they constitute food rather than drink, being 
highly nutritious in every sense of the term. The fat present 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE ANALYSIS. 57 

in cocoa  ^viz., the cocoa-butter  appears to be of a particularly 
available description. It is said never to become rancid, and 
merits an elaborate examination. Whether it be owing to pecu- 
liarities in the fat of cocoa, or whether it be the theobromine 
that is particularly efficient, certain it is that cocoa will some- 
tunes nourish when nothing else will, and cocoa is occasion- 
ally invaluable to the physician. 



1 



PART IV. 



MAT]6, OR PARAGUAY TEA 

' The beverages described hitherto are in pretty general nse in 
England. Mat6, which will next claim our attention, is not 
taken in England, but is drunk in certain hot countries. 

Of the three beverages already treated o^ tea is the one 
which nearest resembles mat^ ; but between tea and mat^ 
there is much difference in taste, and though I believe that 
mat^ deserves some degree of popularity here, it should by no 
means be put forward as resembling tea, but as a new drink 
for the English people. 

Paraguay tea consists of the dried leaves of the Ilex 
Faraguayensis, and mate is the name of the beverage made 
by infusing these leaves. The general aspect of the leaves as 
occurring in commerce, calls to mind the appearance of senna 
as seen in the druggist's shop. 

The leaves of Paraguay tea are often very much broken 
down, and mixed up with fragments of the twig. 

According to an analysis of my own, Paraguay tea, as 
imported, contains  

Moisture, 672 

Ash, 6*86 

Soluble organic matter, .... 25*10 

Insoluble organic matter, .... 62*32 

10000 



HAT^, OR PARAGUAY TEA. 59 

Of the 5*86 parts of ash, 4*46 parts pass into the infusion, 
and 1*40 part remains behind, along with the insoluble 
organic matter. 

Being a leaf (and not a seed, like coffee or cocoa), the 
soluble ash consists mainly of carbonates of the alkalies, and 
not of phosphates. 

By soluble, in the above statement, soluble in hot water is 
designated, and the 25*10 parts of soluble organic matter 
represent the organic matter which dissolves in making mat^. 
Like tea or coffee, this infusion contains the alkaloid theine. 
The proportion of theine in Paraguay tea is said to be much 
smaller than that in tea and coffee. Probably this is true ; 
but in the present unsatisfactory condition of the processes 
for the estimation of theine, no very high degree of confidence 
can be placed in the numbers given for the theine in mat^. 
The numbers 0*13 and 0*44 have been given for the per- 
centages of theine in Paraguay tea. 

In addition to theine, the aqueous extract of Paraguay tea 
contains other nitrogenous matter, 3delding, when boiled with 
alkaline permanganate, a far larger quantity of ammonia than 
could come from the theine which it contains. As has been 
mentioned in Part I., Chapter IV., 1000 grammes of Paraguay 
tea yield to water a solution from which 0*5 grammes of am- 
monia is obtainable on boiling with alkaline permanganate. 

The infusion of Paraguay tea is of a yellowish-brown 
colour and pleasant taste. / When allowed to become cold it is 
also by no means an unpleasant drink. On being kept for 
some days it is very prone to become mouldy, some, which 
I kept for some time in my laboratory, having acquired a 
thick coating of moss. 



NOTICK 

For ike convenience ofpenons who may he engaged in making 
analyses of vKiier, of milk, or of tea, dhc, I have arranged tnth 
Messrs Townson db Mercer (89 Bishopsgate Street Within) for 
the supply of suitable apparatus and of standard test-solutions, 
guaranteed by myself to be correct. 



KOUMISS. 

MAMUPAOTORED BY 

E. CHAPMAN & CO. ID DUKE STREET, 

Portland Plan, London, W. 



KOUMISS, a, uparkling tnilk wins prepared of the best milk, has now, 
after four years' trial ia this coimtrf, establiBbed its great reputation a* 
the most valuable alimeDtary aud tonic beverage in bU atat8 of catarrh or 
relaxation of the mucous membraueB when accompanied by loss of etrengtb 
tmd flesh. The Lactio and Carbonic Acids and Alcohol, together with a 
minute quantity of certain fragrant aBaooiates, are bo combined in the 
Konmisa as to stimulate the stomach and nervous centres "mthovl afficl- 
ivg the head." A large quantity of very aaaimilBble food can thus be 
taken by the feeblest stomach, especially as the caeeine of the milk ia ao 
finely divided aa to form, with the Carbonic Acid, a rich attenuated foam, 
and to prediepoBa the other conBtituenta to rapid transformation into 
lymph and blood. Fresh milk, even whan miied with spirits and soda- 
water, coagulates within the stomach into thick clots, and irritates it; 
whereas in the Koumiss the double procesa of fermentation has done 
nearly aU the preliminary work which would fall otherwise on the 
digestive organs ; and these physical and chemical characteristics of 
Koumiss render it so invaluable iu the treatment of debUity and emacia- 
tion. The Lactio Acid it contains is a prime constituent of the gastric 
juice, and the state of vitality of the KoumiBS (being 3, /ermeniing and 
not a fermented beverage 1) gives it the property ol greatly aBsisting 
digestion and asaimilation. 

According to Russian, German, and our own medical authorities, it is 
settled beyond question that "Sotimiit i vand^fulty tutted at a form of 
ouritAinnt for badly novrithed, vaited, rachitic, or icTofuloui ckiUtren, or 
for eonnaletcenti ; and also that it can often cure cases of obttinale chrome 
diarrhaa, or old eatarrA." See for this, and Wanklyn's chemical analysis 
of our various sorts of Koumiss, The Irish Hospital Gaeette, December 
IGth, 1873; The British Medical Journal of January 8d, 10th, February 
2Iat^ and March 7tb, 1874 ; Pharmaceutical Journal, February SStb, 
March 2lBt; and The London Medical Record, April Ist. 

Oar own small pamphlet, with analysis, testimonials, prices of our 
articles, and all other informations, may be had gratis on application to our 
Manufactory in London, 

10 DUXE STEEBT. POETLAMD PLACE, W. 

EDWIN CHAPMAN & CO., 

MANDFACTURBRS OP SPARKLING KOUMISS AMD BLAND, 
Importen of natural Mlngral Waters, do. 



Amongst tie many spontaneous testimonials on view at our 
office, we insert the following :  

October 27, 1871. 

Dbab Sib, Many thanks for your letter^ I have myself begun to give a 
fair trial to Koumiss in a young lady, who is dreadfully phthisicaJ. She has 
taken Koumiss for sixteen days, and the change it has occasioned has been 
most remarkable ; she has gained flesh, her cough has diminished, and her 
complexion has become wonderfully clear and bright. I shall put another 
patient under koumiss in a day or tWo, Yours, &c., 

Edwabd Charlton, M.D., 
Senior Physician of the Infirmary of Newcastle-on-Tyne, 
and Lecturer on Practice of Physio in the College of 
Medicine ; late President of the British Medical Asso<' 
ciation, ko. &c. 



March 10, 1874. 

Dr Myrtle, of Etarrogate, Yorkshire, writes j " I gladly bear witness to 
the value of this article of diet (Koumiss), and look upon it as one of the 
most important additions which have been made to the physician's reper* 
torium. It is quite as much a true therapeutic agent as a genuine food, and 
is capable of being successfully employed in cases Where the stomach can 
neither do with food of the or^nary. kind or physic.'' 



London, October* 11, 1872* 

Milk has been justly called the typical food, and is eminently fitted for 
children ; but for adults, and all those who not unf requently cannot take 
milk. Koumiss is its true representative. The caseine and fat contained in 
Koumiss are in a state of fine division, and in a very favourable condition for 
digestion. The presence of the lactic and carbonic acids, and small quantities 
of alcohol, is, in my opinion, conducive to easy assimilation. The earlier 
forms of Koumiss form agreeable beverages* 

F. Alpbbd Wankltn, H.B.C.S., 

Corresponding Member of the Boyal Bavarian Academy 
of Sciences; Public Analyst for Buckinghamshire, 
Buckingham, and High Wycombe. 



9 Arundel TeSrace, Brighton, NovemJber 13, 1872. 
I have been an invalid for the last twelve years, suffering from an affection 
of the heart, lung, &c. I have consulted some of the first physicians in 
Europe, and tried the most approved remedies ; but I can with the greatest 
truth state that I have derived more benefit from a pint of the Medium 
Koumiss at breakfast, lunch, and dinner, than from any other medicine, or 
diet, that I have previously taken. I have gained ten pounds in weight in 



eleven months. My wife and my son are also taking it with grdat benefit. 
I have recommended it to many of my patients with great advantage, &c. 

BiCHARD Dawson, M.D., M.B.G.S., and L.R.O.P., Lond. 



London, April 4, 1871. 

Itoumiss is a very assimilable nutritious food and potent medicine in close 

natural union. I have lived on Koumiss and bread, almost exclusively, for 

the last six months, with great comfort and increase of weight, after having 

been very much reduced in health and strength. Its genuine worth entitles 

it justly, therefore, to the popular favour which it continues to gain in 

Europe and Great Britain. 

Campbell Morfit, M.D., F.C.S., &c. 



10 Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, W., 
London, May 25 1874. 

A preparation from genuine cow*s milk, called ** Koumiss," has now for 
some time attracted my attention. At first I was sceptical as to the benefits 
which were said to result from its consumption, but a somewhat extended 
experience has thoroughly convinced me of its great value. In cases where 
nutrition fails, when strength and weight are being lost, the virtues of the 
Koumiss soon become evident ; the appetite improves, and the patient 
experiences a considerable increase of constitutional power. In cancerous 
destructions and other diseases of the large intestine I have found Koumiss 
of eminent utility, and can thoroughly recommend it to my professional 
brethren. 

Wm. Allingham, F.B.C.S., 

Surgeon to St Mark's Hospital for Fistula and other 
diseases of the Bectum, Consulting Surgeon to the 
British Orphan Asylum, &a &c. 



8 Weymouth Street, Portland Place, W., 
London, May 20, 1874. 

The various sorts of Koumiss manufactured by the firm of E. Chapman 
and Co., London, W., have given great satisfaction to me and others in the 
treatment of anffimia, weakness of digestion and assimilation, emaciation, 
catarrh of the mucous membranes, in pharyngitis, laryngitis, bronchitis, and 
pneumonia, sometimes even at the most critical stages of disease and of 
diminished vital power. In chronic syphilis, scrofula, and other constitu- 
tional cachectic conditions of the body, but especially in the early stage of 
consumption, I rely upon Koumiss as the " first " amongst all remedies used 
for their treatment; it improves nutrition, raises strength, and alters the 
constitution advantageously. 

A. Y. Jaoielski, M.D., 

Member of the Boyal College of Physicians, London, &c. &c. 



SPARKLING BLAND. 



MAmiTACTDEED BY 

EB^WIN CHAPMAN & CO., 

10 DUIE STBEET, POETLASD PUCE, LOHDOH. W. 



Blavd, the most agreeable and rebeehing beverage, is made from milk 
upon a Bimilar principle aa Eoumise, ao ai to reader it a valuable tonic 
atimulant. By its use the digeatiTe oinuu are improTed. The ginger, 
which ia used chiefly aa a flavouring, adds an aromatie and caminative 

Sropertf ; but we prepare the Bland also with lemon, orange, and almond 
avoura. The medical profesdon recommend its uaa particularly during 
inflammatory and febrile diseases. It may alao be mixed with wine, 
spirits, and beer advantageouely. The Blacd will keep good for an 
indefinite period. 



OUR SCENTED GLVOER-AMrODALINE CREAM 

Ii a Teally attful addition on every Toiltt-TaiiU. 

During a cold, and in rheumatic aSeotionE, it may be applied with benefit to 

the forehead, noas, chest, neck, or any other painful locality. 

As a cosmetic it is very efficacious in rendering the akin soft and 
delicate, and it ia quite unequalled for imparting a fresh and healthy 
colour to the face and lips. For tbe hands it is best employed at night, 
and with glovea on during the night. 

On the hair, moustache, whiskers, beard, it may be used aa a pomade. 
It keeps them moist, soft, and in good appearance, besides promoting 
their growth. 



WARSAW GLYCERINE SOAP, Bs. per Dozen Cakes, 
or Bd. per piece. 



