T X 
715 

6941: 




s.:i^^m 



1 LIBRARY OF CONGRESSJ 



I limp. .5:ix,|»ra"si<t j\" - 1 

t UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ^ 



n •*^'%,.'*i,.-*,-'^ <*,.«&■<?>■• 



-^->^ ;^ ^^ ^ tx ~->- 






r3> 


:)~ 


^ j> 




> 


3 


3»"3) 




3 


^ 


~^5»~^^ 




:> 


~3 


^!>T^ 




:> 


3 


~ji~~^ 


" 


:> 


3 


Z3^^^^ 


-^ 


^ 


3) 


^T> 


„ "; 


:> 


:~^ 


>:> 




:> 


■^ 






> 


^ 


~> >■ 






:* - 


>^ 






:> 


^>3> 




> 


^ 


^ 




> 


3 


» 


^^ 




z^* 


» 


»z> 




~Z3 


► » 


:»^ 



5 


>z> 


^^ 






> I 


>3 






Hi 



SUGGESTIONS 



IN 



Culinary Chemistry. 



" May good digestion wait on appetite, 
And health on both." 



— Macbeth. 



PRINTED FOR THE FAIR. 







^bosto:n^: 

KOCKWELL & CHURCHILL, PRINTERS, 
122 "Washington Street. 

18 74. 



A 



A^\' 



^ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by 

E. A. CLARKE, 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



PREFACE 



The first principle of chemistry is the rule of definite proportions. And 
the earliest application of chemistry was undoubtedly to the art of cooking 
food, and this is by no means tlie least important to-day. 

The first thing, then, in feeding mankind well, is to remember that cook- 
ing a meal is performing a chemical operation on a practical scale, which 
ought to be as definitely and accurately performed every time, as the refin- 
ing of a batch of sugar, or the manufacture of a hundred carboys of acid. 

The composition of a meal is in the nature of a fine art, and the serious 
business of eating should be carried on in such a way that, as a French 
writer well observes, "the soul should feast while the body dines." 

These two things, then, are to be remembered : that the preparation of 
food is a chemical operation, to be conducted carefully and exactly, and 
that there is no chance or luck, only skill, concerned in it; and that the 
body and soul ought to be fed at the same time in order to the " mens sana 
in corpore sano." Theee observed and kept in view, good living is simple 
and easy. 

It is the object of this pamphlet to supplement some other cookery-books. 
Our people eat too much dry food, and too little soup and made dishes. 
They stick to their spits too stoutly, forgetting that it v/as the soup-kettle 
that so changed the history of the world, when Jacob bought the birthright 
of Esau for a plate of bean-soup a la Saxe (pottage of lentils) ; and which 
so nearly subverted the rising power of Israel when the emigrants longed 
for the flesh-pots of Egypt. 

Towards the close of this book is a series of what in old times would bo 
called " diet lists," or bills of fare. There is nothing inflexible about a 
diet list. You take as a skeleton idea the notion that a full breakfast con- 
sists of some wholesome beverage, tea, coffee, cider, milk, buttermilk ; of 
some fruit, fresh vegetable or salad, if it can be got ; of a bit of meat or 
fish, or a plate of beans, and of bread or porridge, — that is, of something 
to drink, and of at least three or four things to eat in variety. 



A lunch should consist of a difTerent drink from the breakfast, avid of at 
least two dishes in variety ; and a dinner should be also in variety, soups, 
fish, meat, vegetables, salad, an entree, and a bit of pastry or pudding. 

Tea, also, should be in variety, and each meal should supplement the 
other meals of the day, and each day's diet-list should supplement the diet- 
list of the other days of the week. 

Thus it is hoped this little pamphlet may serve a purpose of lessening 
dyspepsia and improving the health and happiness of our people. 

In describing the soups, the usual names have been given, as it is well, 
if one has a favorite soup at home, to know what to ask for abroad. 



SOUPS. 

Soup Stock. 

Buy fourteen or fifteen pounds of beef shank. Have it 
cut into several pieces and the bone cracked. Wash and 
put OD to boil in a deep porcelain kettle, with enough cold 
water to cover it. When it comes to a boil, take off the scum 
and set the kettle where the soup will just simmer during the 
day. At night set it where it will be cold, and in the morn- 
ing skim off all the fat. Treat in the same way without add- 
ing water, nnless it has evaporated to a great degree, on the 
second and third days. At the end of that time strain the 
soup through a fine sieve into a glazed stone pot, which has 
been carefully scalded, and set it away to cool. This will 
make stock of the consistency of calf 's-foot jelly when cold. 
Do not boil vegetables with the stock while making, as they 
cause it to sour quickly. This quantity of beef will make 
nearly a gallon of stock. 

The w^ater in which fresh meat or poultry is boiled, should 
be saved for soups and broths, and the bones of roast meat, 
pieces of beef-steak or cold meats, should never be thrown 
away without boiling, as they make very nice soups or stews. 
These may be seasoned with salt and pepper and various 
kinds of vegetables. Cooked meats, however, will not make 
stock. 

The carcasses of roast or boiled poultry, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, onion, and a little . barley or rice, make a very 
rich soup. 



Soups are classified by professed cooks as soups (pi'op- 
er), potages, purees, and bisques. 

SOUPS. 

A soup is made of stock melted, and with or without the 
addition of other ingredients. The natural color of the stock 
is not changed. 

Consomme is stock alone, seasoned with salt and pepper 
or other spices. 

Julienne is stock seasoned to suit, with the addition of 
carrots, parsnips, turnips, and a suspicion of onion. These 
vegetables should be cut into strips two inches long and 
one-fourth of an inch wide and thick. The onion should be 
shredded fine. They should be cut into cold water an hour 
before using to make them crisp. If the vegetables are old, 
steam until quite soft, and put into the stock half an hour 
before serving. 

A. la Jardiniere is made like Julienne, except that whereas 
in the Julienne the vegetables are all roots, in the a la Jar- 
diniere they are all such as grow above ground, green peas, 
shell or string beans, cabbage, celery tops, and the like. 

Maccaroni, Vermicelli, or Star Soup is made by adding 
to the soup stock, maccaroni, vermicelli, or the pattern mac- 
caroni, which comes in small boxes, and in wafers of differ- 
ent shapes. Season to suit. 

Noedel Soup is also a stock soup, having in it noedels 
made of flour, eggs and butter, made into a stiff paste, cut 
either in balls or disks of an inch in diameter, or cut into 
ribbons about one-quarter of an inch wide and one-eighth of 
an inch thick, cooked in the stock. 

To make Ox-tall Soup, you separate two or three tails at 
the joints, put on to boil in cold water, enough to fully cover 
them, and, after boiling a short time, season with whole 



onion, carrot, a few cloves, salt and pepper. Boil two or 
three hours, then remove the vegetables and bones from the 
soup and serve. Soup stock added to the liquor an hour 
before taking from the iire will make a much richer soup. 

"White stock is made with veal instead of beef, and in the 
same way. All the above soups may be made from white 
stock, and noedel soup is much nicer made with white 
stock. 

^ la Yienne is made from white stock, with star macca- 
roni and green vegetables, such as are used in the a la Jar- 
diniere. 

Plain Veal Soup, or Broth, is best made from a knuckle 
of veal. Lay it in sufficient cold water to thoroughly cover 
it. Let it boil slowly for an hour and a half, carefully re- 
moving all the scum ; then add a small cup of rice, salt, pep- 
per, and an onion. Boil two and a half hours. Kemove the 
meat, and the broth will be ready to serve. 

For Mutton Broth, it is best to buy the neck of mutton. 
Put it on to boil in cold water, and skim carefully. After 
cooking for an hour and a half, add a small cup of rice, pep- 
per, salt, and a small onion. Boil two hours. Remove the 
meat and serve. 

POTAGES. 

These are soups thickened with flour or meal, — that of 
barley, wheat, rice or beans being emploj^ed. 

A. la Heine is soup stock, seasoned, and thickened with 
wheat flour. 

A la Palestine is stock seasoned, and thickened with bean 
meal. 

A la Indienne is stock seasoned and thickened with rice 
flour. 



8 



Ncibob is thickened with rice flonr, flavored or seasoned 
with curry powder. 

Mulligatawny is stock thickened with browned flour and 
flavored with curry powder. 

Barley Souj) is thickened either with barley flour or with 
whole barley boiled to a paste before putting into the 
stock. 

All these thickenings are made by allowing two or three 
tablespoonsfuls of the flour or meal to a quart of stock, and 
mixing with water to a smooth paste before stirring into the 
stock. 

Season with salt and pepper to taste. Some like ground 
cloves or allspice as flavoring; and in using bean flour a 
t'mspoonful of vinegar or the juice of a small lemon is very 
good. A small quantity of celery seed, or essence of celery, 
may be used in seasoning most of the above soups. 

• 

PUEEES. 

These are Bean, Pea, Black Bean or Tomato Soups. 

Pea or Bean Soujps. 
Wash and soak over night one pint of peas or beans. In 
the morning turn ofi* the water and put on to cook, in nearly 
four quarts of cold water, a half-pound of lean salt pork, a 
little pepper, and salt, if the pork does not salt it enough. 
A small onion and a little celery improve it. Boil slowly 
eight hours, being careful that it does not burn. When 
done, it should be thin enough to pour. If it becomes too 
thick in boiling, add hot water. When cooked it is smooth 
and mealy. If not cooked enough, after standing a few 
minutes the top will look watery. Strain the soup through 
a sieve, and serve. Before sending to the table, toast sev- 



eral slices of bread of an even brown, cut into pieces an inch 
square, and put into the tureen. 

Green Pea Bowp. 
Boil marrowfat peas in a little more than enough water to 
cover them; cook until the skin breaks and the peas are 
entirely softened. Strain through a sieve, and season with 
salt, pepper and butter. If the peas are old, and a long time 
is required to boil them, set the vessel in which they are 
cooking into another of boihng water, and you will avoid 
burning them. 

Black Bean, or Bowp a la Baxe. 
Make in the same way as Pea or Bean Soup, using if you 
choose, veal knuckles instead of pork. 

Potato BoujJ. 
Twelve potatoes boiled in one quart of milk. When 
done, mash finely. Add one onion, salt and pepper, and 
simmer one hour. Before serving, strain into it an egg. 
Tomato improves it. Should it be too thick, add a little 
water and let it boil up. 

Vegetable Boup. 
Two turnips, two carrots, four potatoes, one large onion, 
one parsnip, a few pieces of celery or a little celery seed. 
Cut or chop all very fine. Put them with a spoonful of rice 
into three quarts of water, and boil three hours. Then 
sii-ain, and replace over the fire. Add a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, and a little brown flour. Let it boil up, and 
then serve. Tomato may be added at choice. 



10 

Tomato Soiij)- 
Let the bones or meat boil in two quarts of water three or 
four hours ; then add two dozeu large tomatoes, and boil one 
hour. Season with salt, pepper, onion and turnips. Strain 
and serve. 

FISH SOUPS, STEWS, OR CHOWDERS. 

Cod Soup. 

Cut the fish into pieces, and put into cold water. Season 
with salt aud pepper. Boil five minutes, and then add one 
pint of nice milk, a large piece of butter, and a little thick- 
ening. In a few moments remove from the fire. Separate 
the flakes from the bones, and it is ready to serve. Crack- 
ers, dipped in milk or water, and placed in the tureen before 
sending to the table, are an improvement. 

Oyster Soup. 

Strain the liquor from one quart of water, and set it on 
the fire. If there is not a great deal of liquor add one pint 
of water. Boil for a few minutes ; then pour in a pint 
of rich milk. When it again boils stir in two spoonfuls of 
butter rubbed in two or three of flour. Then add the 
oysters, salt, and pepper. Boil two or three minutes, and 
serve. 

Clam Soupt. 

Make in the same w^ay as oyster soup, unless the clams 
are very large, when cut off" the heads and chop them and 
the rims before putting in. Allow the clams to cook a little 
longer than oysters. 

Lobster Soup. 

Cut into small pieces two medium-sized lobsters ; add one 
pint of water, butter, size of an g^^^^, salt and pepper, and 



11 



thicken with a tablespoonfal of flour. Boil fifteen minutes, 
and add a pint of milk just before taking the soup from the 
fire. 

Scallop Stew. 

Boil a quart of scallops in their own liquor five minutes. 
Then add a quart of milk, and after this has cooked three or 
four minutes, thicken with a little flour rubbed into butter. 
Add salt and pepper. Allow it to boil up once, after adding 
thickening, and it is then ready for use. 

Oyster Stew. 

Drain all the liquor from the oysters. If there is not 
much liquor add a little water. Let it come to a boil, and 
skim carefully. Turn in the milk, allowing one pint of milk 
to a pint of oysters. Add butter, salt, and pepper. Boil 
once or twice, and then add the oysters. Cook two minutes, 
and serve. 

Oyster stew is also very nice, made the same as above, 
with the exception of the milk, which must be boiled in a 
pan, set in water, and served separately, and which may be 
added to the stew or not, at pleasure. 

Qualiaug Soup or Stew. 
Quahaugs, or round clams, may be used and cooked in the 
same way as oysters, and by many people would be pre- 
ferred to the large clams. 

Clam Chowder. 

Take two quarts of clams, and, if they are of good size, 
separate the heads and rims from the bodies, and chop flue,- 
Cut into cold water ten or a dozen good-sized potatoes, 



12 



pared and sliced very thin, and three medinm-sized onions. 
Yry in the kettle in which you mean to make the chowder, 
until all the fat is extracted, one half pound of salt pork, 
cut into small squares, being careful not to burn. Then put 
in alternate layers of onions, potatoes, bodies of the clams, 
and small pieces of cold-water crackers, salt, and pepper. 
Cover with what clam-water you have, and if that is not 
sufficient, add boiUng water. AVhen the vegetables are 
nearly done, add the heads and rims. Just before serving, 
add one quart of milk, or more, if you prefer. If the clams 
are small do not separate the heads and rims, but add them 
to the chowder when it is nearly done. 

Fish CJioivder. 
Make in the same way as clam chowder, using five or six 
pounds of cod or haddock to the same quantity of other in- 
gredients given in the above receipt. 



Bisques are extremely difficult to make. They are similar 
in appearance to purees, and are made by entirely cooking 
up clams, oysters, or lobsters. Most Americans would pre- 
fer chowder or stews made of these fish. 



MEATS AND ENTREES. 

Minced Veal. 

Cut the veal into very small bits, and put them into 

mutton or veal broth with a little mace, white pepper, salt, 

grated lemon-peel, and a tablespoonful of catsup. Take 

out some of the gravy when nearly done, thicken with fiour 



13 



and a little butter; boil up with the rest of the gravy, and 
pour over the meat. Garnish with small points of toasted 
bread, parsley, and sliced lemon. The addition of a little 
of the juice of the lemon to the gravy gives zest. 

Ham or Bacon Bashers. 
Soak in hot water for a quarter of an hour. "Wipe per- 
fectly dry, and broil quickly. A few minutes is quite suf- 
ficient. The slices should be cut one quarter of an inch in 
thickness. 

Meat Calces. 

Any cold meat or poultry minced fine with a little ham or 
bacon. Season with salt and pepper, and make into small 
cakes one-half an inch thick. Fry brown, and serve with 
good gravy. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs sliced, bits of 
beets, and points of carrot. 

Devilled Ham. 
The small bits dropped in the carvings of boiled ham, 
with what meat may be got from off the bone, may be 
chopped very fine and made useful by mixing a cupful of 
the ham with a very small piece of onion, also chopped fine, 
quarter of a spoonful of mixed mustard, a little black 
pepper, some powdered sage, or savory, and water enough to 
mix thoroughly. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal chopped fine, one-fourth pound 
raw salt pork chopped, one cup pounded crackers, two eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of pepper, three of salt, one large spoonful 
of sage. Mix thoroughly; press in a dish and place on a 
tin sheet to bake. Beat one e^g and pour over the loaf; 



14 



put bits of butter on top, and sift over it a little cracker. 
Baste while baking. Bake three liours; and, when cold, cut 
into thin slices and serve for tea or breakfast. 

Breast of Turlcey. 

The least desirable parts of a turkey are the breast and 
wings. Cut off all the white meat, chop fine, wet with a 
little warm water and season with salt, pepper, and butter, 
and place on toasted bread. 

Sandwiches. 

Chop the ham or tongue very fine. Mix with a little 
warm water sufficient to spread it easily on slices of 
buttered bread cut very thin; season with mustard and a 
little sweet oil. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Chop very fine two pounds of cold veal, and mix it with 
two eggs and a quarter of a cup of water. Season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. Mix thoroughly, and roll into balls. 
Dip the croquettes into beaten e^g, and fry in boiling lard a 
light brown. 

PicJded Oysters. 

Scald and skim the liquor; put in the oysters and let them 
come to a boil. Take them from the boiling liquor, and 
throw them into ice-water. Put into the hot liquor whole 
2Depperc<3rns, whole allspice, blades of mace, and a few 
cloves, and let it boil up once. To one quart of the liquor 
add one pint of vinegar. Drain the oysters from the water, 
pour the liquor over them, and in twenty-four hours they 
are ready for use. 



15 



Oyster Patties. 
Make a shell as for tarts, only larger. Stew a pint of 
oysters in their own liquor three minutes. Dredge in a little 
flour. Season with salt, pepper, and a large spoonful of 
butter; fill the shells with this and place over them covers 
of paste the size of the tarts baked on tins. Serve hot. 

Cliicken Patties. 
Make a shell as for tarts only larger. Cut the boiled 
chicken into very small pieces, and with the water in which 
it was boiled make a gravy, thickened with flour, and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter. Place the chicken 
in this gravy, and boil five minutes. It is then ready to put 
into the tarts and serve. 

Baked Calfs Liver. 
Sprinkle the botton of the joan in which the liver is to be 
baked, with one-half teaspoonful each of pepper, cloves and 
salt. Lard the liver, lay it in the pan, and pour ,round it 
cold water; then sprinkle over the top with the same spices 
used in the pan. Put in the oven, and, as it bakes, dredge 
with flour, and baste with butter. Bake for an hour and a 
half; make a gravy from what remains in the pan, and pour 
over the liver. 

Beef^s Heart. 
Wash and clean the heart, and fill the large cavity with a 
stuffing made of bread, wet with an egg^ and seasoned with 
salt, pepper, butter and savory or sweet marjoram. Place 
the heart on its point in a tightly-covered pot, and just cover 
with cold water. Boil until nearly done, when take it from 
the kettle and place in the oven. Dredge flour on it, and 



16 

baste with butter until done, or lay slices of salt pork over 
the heart to finish cooking. The water in which it was 
boiled thickened with flour will make a very nice gravy, and 
will need no seasoning, as the stuffing which boils out from 
the heart will season it sufficiently. If you have any heart 
left, it Avill make very nice mince-meat, mixed with potatoes, 
and seasoned with the gravy. 

Lamlfs Hearts. 
"Wash and clean a dozen of lamb's hearts, and fill the cav- 
ities with a stuffing, made as for beef's heart. Set on their 
points in a kettle, and just cover with water. Stew until 
done, when serve with a gravy made of the water in which 
the hearts were boiled, thickened with flour, and seasoned with 
salt, pepper and butter. Pour over the hearts and serve. 

Fricaseed Veal. 
Buy a neck of veal, and put into a kettle with just suf- 
ficient cold- water to cook it, a handful of salt, and a half- 
pound of salt pork. When the veal is done, take from the 
kettle and cut into long strips. Make a gravy of the water 
remaining in the kettle, thickened with flour, and seasoned 
with pepper and butter. Place the veal in this, and cook five 
minutes, when it is ready for the table. 

Steamed Beef. 
Buy lower part of the round of beef. Place on skewers 
in a kettle just above the water necessary to cook it; put 
into the beef a handful of salt; steam several hours until 
done. Take out the meat; make agravy of the water in the 
kettle, thickened with flour, and seasoned with tomato, slices 
of carrots, a little onion, salt, pepper and butter. When the 



17 

carrots and tomatoes are cooked, place the beef in the gravy, 
and boil for ten oi' fifteen minutes, when send to the table, 
serving- tlie meat in the gravy. Many people might prefer a 
little ground clove added to the seasoning. 

Mutton, Veal, or Beef on Toast. 
If 3'on have ^\^y small pieces of mutton, veal or beef left, 
either roasted or boiled, a very nice breakfast dish is to chop 
the \)'\q(:qh fine, wet with warm water, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter, and boil fifteen minutes; dish on slices of 
nicely browned toast. If you use veal, it should be gar- 
nished with thin slices of lemon. 

Sausages. 
I do not mean to give any receipt for cooking sausages, 
but simply to mention what a German cook recommended to 
me as a great addition to fried sausages, and that is, au 
onion cut fine and cooked in the pan with the sausages. 

Calfs Liver. 

Cut into slices half an inch thick, and broil over clear 
coals; season with'butter, salt and pepper. 

Curried Veal. 
Make as directed for fricassee veal, and add to the gravy, 
as a fiu'ther seasoning, a teaspoonful or less of Indian curry; 
gai-nish with boiled rice, pressed into cup shape. Chicken 
and mutton can be cui'ried in the same manner. 

Stewed Kidneys. 
Get nice fresh kidneys, either beef or lamb; cut into small 
pieces, and scald two or three times with boiling water; stew 



18 

in a close kettle half an hour or less, when make a gravy of 
tlie watei' in which the kidneys were boiled; thicken with 
flour,- and season with salt, pepper and butter, and pour over 
the kidneys. 

Broiled Kidneys. 

Either beef or lamb kidneys are veiy nice broiled. Slice 
them through lengthwise with a thin knife, making two or 
three slices; scald them two or three times Avith boiling 
water; diy and broil over a clear fire until cooked. Season 
with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Blazed Veniscn. 

Lay the steaks of venison in a blazer, with a little water, 
salt, peppei", bntter, and a large spoonful of currant jelly. 
Cover tightly and simmer until done. Serve with currant 

Potted Pigeons. 

Clean and stuff the pigeons with a dressing made as for 
turkey. Sew them up and truss. Put them in a kettle 
with water enough to cover them and a pound of i)ork, and 
cook from two to three houis. Serve with gi'avy made of 
the liquor in which they were boiled, thickened with flour, 
and seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves. 

Blazed Oysters. 

Lay the oysters in their liqu(<r in a blazer; add salt, pe])- 
per, and butter, and simmer three or four minutes. When 
served at the table, lay a slice of lemon in each guest's dish. 



19 



Poached JEggs. 

Beat six eg-gs ten miiuites. Put thein in nn earthen dish 
tliat will stand the fire. Allow one hii-ge spoonful of milk or 
more to each i^'^)^; add a little salt, antl butter, the size of an 
Q^g. Stir constantly fi'om the bottom, and it will soon harden 
in large liakes. 

Baked Omelettes. 

Heat three gills of milk. Melt in it a small spoonful of 
butter, and stir in a tablespoonful of flour and a saltspoonful 
of salt, wet with a little cold milk. Pour upon this five eggs, 
well beaten, and stir till well mixed. Have ready a buttered 
dish just large enough to hold the mixture, and bake in a 
quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Omelettes. 
Beat lightly six eggs and stir in three large spoonfuls of 
milk and a little salt. Heat a pan hot; put in a bit of but- 
ter, and when melted turn in the eggs. As it hardens and 
begins to look brown, fold the omelette over and serve on a 
hot dish. You may vary the omelette by adding chopped 
ham, chicken, or lobster, and laying between the folds before 
serving. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

Pick and strain three pints of oysters. Butter a deep 
dish; strew it with bread or cracker crumbs, rolled very 
fine. Put in a layer of oysters, and dredge ovei- them salt 
and pepper; then a layer of crumbs, and lay on small pieces 
of butter, and so on until the dish is full, finishing with a 
layer of dry crumbs. Put in bnt little of the liquor, as 
oysters part with a good deal of moisture in cooking. Bake 
half ail hour. A little grated nutmeg will improve the 
oysters if you desire them rich. 



20 



Faricii Roast. 
Cook the o3\stcrs in their own liqnor five minutes. Season 
with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve on hot buttered 
toast. 

Fried Oysters. 
Drain the oysters and lay separately on a clean cloth to 
dry. Then dip each one into ^gg, and then into Indian meal 
or cracker crumbs. Put into a deep kettle of boiling lard; 
spj'inkle a little salt over them and brown lightly. 

Fried Clams or Scallo])S. 
Cook as directed for fried oysters. 

Oysters in Batter. 

Beat thoroughly two eggs; then add half a pint of milk, 
a little salt, and two cups of Hour. Mix well together and 
di'op the oyster with a spoonful of batter into boiling lard. 
Be sure that the oysters are drained and free from pieces of 
shell. 

Oyster or Scalloj) Pie. 

Line a deep dish with nice crust. Strain the liquor from 
three pints of oystei-s. Put in layei's of oysters or scallops, 
cracker crumbs, salt, pepper, and butter, as directed for 
escalloped oysters, and a very little of the liquor. Cover 
with crust, and ornament with pastry cut in fanciiul shapes. 
Bake nearly an hour, and serve hot. 

Ajtple Fritters. 
Make a batter of two eggs, half a pint of milk, a little 
salt, and two cups of flour. Beat thoroughly. Pare and 
core nice apples. Cut in thin slices, dip in the batter, and 
fry in boiling lai'd. WwAi fritters may be made by omitting 
the apples and simply using the batter. 



21 

Ajjple Frilters, Wo. 2. 

Pare and core the apples, and cut in thin slices. Make a 
batter of one tablespoonful flour, two eggs, and one table- 
spoonfnl of milk. Di]) the apples into the batter, and fry in 
hot lard. Sprinkle with sngar. 

Pressed Beef. 

Buy two or three ponnds of the lower part of the leg 
Boil until tender. Chop very fine, and season with sage, 
salt, and pepper, and press into shape in a deep dish. 

Mutton Pie. 
Take slices of cold mutton, and put into a deep dish, in 
layers of mutton, tomato, salt, pepper, and butter. If you 
have any gravy left, put in a little, and cover the dish with a 
plain crust. 

Deviled Turl:ey. 
If you have left turkey, or any kind of fowl, that is a lit- 
tle underdone, take the thick parts (the -first and second 
joints of the legs are best), cut deep gashes, and rub into 
them salt and pepper. Broil on the gridiron, until heated 
through. Place on a hot dish, and spread with butter. 

Deviled Ot/sters. 

Open the oysters, leaving them in their deep shells; place 
on a gridiron, with a little pepper, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, 
and butter in each. Cook four or five minutes, and serve 
with brown bread and butter. 

A very nice dish may be made of bits of beef, veal, mut- 
ton, or lamb, chopped very fine, mixed with two eggs and a 



22 



little warm water, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and but- 
ter. Press ill form in a wine-glass, then fry in hot lard, and 
garnish with a sprig of parsley i)laced in the top of each 
little cone. 



SALADS AND RELISHES. 

Salad Dressing. 
Beat three eggs with one-half cup of sweet oil, one teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, one-half cup white vinegar. To be mixed just 
before using. Salt the chicken or lobster when chopped. 
Add three hard-boiled eggs, also chopped, and pour the 
dressing over the Avhole. Should there not be dressing 
enough, add a little more vinegar. 

Salad Dressing. 
Beat the yolks of a dozen eggs to a froth. Add a large 
bottle of sweet oil, in very small quantities, beating until it 
is quite thick. Beat the whites to a stift' froth, and add to 
the eg^ and oil. Take three heaping teaspoonfuls of dry 
mustard, a teaspoonful of salt, the same of sugar, and a lit- 
tle cayenne pepper. Mix with sweet cream, and add to the 
e >gs. Add a pint or more of ci-eam. This will keep some 
time if bottled and corked tightly. Add vinegar to your 
taste, when you use the di'essing. 

Maifonaise Dressing. 
Separate the yolk of one ^•'^•g from the white. Mix one- 
half teasjjoonful of English mustard, yolk of Q^^^., and a 
saltspoonful of salt together, and add six tablespoonfuls of 
Lucca oil, little by little, mixing to a smooth paste; then add 



23 

three tablespoonfnls of vinegar, and continue stirring. The 
color, when finished, should be of a uniform even bright 
yellow. A few grains cayenne, well stirred in, will better it 
for gentlemen's taste. 

Welsh Rarehit. 
One pound of cheese cut in small bits, a small piece of 
butter, very little salt, pepper, one beaten Q^g. Stir into the 
i^gg^ a large teasi)oonful of mixed mustard, and a tablespoon- 
ful of bi-andy. Melt the cheese and butter in a ])an, stirring- 
it while melting. When thoroughly melted, add the ^^gg, 
give it one stir, and pour over hot toast. Be sure the dish 
you put it in is very hot. 

Potato Salad. 
Six cold, boiled potatoes, cut thin, and one small onion, 
shredded fine. Make a dressing of three tablespoonfnls of 
sweet oil, two table spoonfuls of vinegar, one saltspoonful 
of salt, one saltspoonful of coarse black pepper. Mix 
thoroughly, and pour over the potatoes. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Take six cold boiled potatoes, a small beet, a small carrot, 
a small parsnip, a small raw onion, and a little raw cabbage, 
choj'ped fine. Slice the vegetables very thin and pour over 
them the dressing used for potato salad. The vegetables 
may be cooked purposely for the salad, or it is a very eco- 
nomical way to use up vegetables that may be left from a 
previous dinner. 

Chiclen Salad. 

Boil chicken tender, cut off the white meat, and chop 
coarse. Cut off the white part of celery and chop in the 



24 

Slime manner. Mix well together, and stir in part of dress- 
ing given in receipt. Shape the salad in a flat dish, and 
pour over the rest of the dressing. Add, if you please, hard- 
boiled eggs, and garnish with celery-tops. 

Lohster Salad. 
Lobster Salad is made the same as chicken, using lettuce 
instead of celery. 

Dressed Celery. 
Chop the celery into small bits, and pour over it a dressing 
made as directed in the second receipt for salad dressing, or 
use Mayonaise dressing. Water cresses or lettuce are 
vei-y nice dressed as for celeiy. 

Cole Slaw. 
Cut cabbage as fine as possible. Mix together one table- 
spoonful of flour beaten with one egg, one-half cupful of 
vineo-ar, and a little salt. Place on the fii-e and boil. When 
cold, pour over the cabbage. 

Salmon Salad. 
If yon have boiled salmon left from a dinner, a very nice 
salad may be made of it by pouring over it a little hot 
vinegar, seasoned with salt and whole pepper, and letting it 
stand a da}^ or two. When ready for use, remove from the 
vinegar, and lay in a platter. Pour over it a dressing with 
the small leaves of lettuce chopped up in it, and serve. 



25 



SAUCES. 

Bread Sauce. 
Haifa pint of grated bread-crumbs, one pint of milk, and 
one whole onion. Boil this until the sauce is smooth, then 
take ont the onion and stir in two spoonfuls of butter, salt 
and pepper. Boil up once, and serve. This is very nice 
for grouse, partridge, or quail. 

Butter Sauce, 
Into one pint of boiling watei- stir three spoonfuls of flour 
wet with milk or water, and a little salt. Let it come to a 
boil, and when i-eady to serve add one-half cup or more of 
butter. 

Hollaiidaise Sauce. 
Chop two hard-boiled eggs, and add to the butter sauce. 

Calmer Sauce. 
Stir Ave spoonfuls of capers into a hirge pint of butter 
sauce. 

Anchovy Sauce. 
Add to a pint of butter sauce a sufficient essence of 
anchovy to flavor it. 

Tartare Sauce. 
Make a Mayonaise dressing, and mix with it finely 
chopped pickles or capers. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Boil for a few minutes the liquor of a quart of oysters. 
Add a little water, if there is not much oyster liquor. Skim 

4 



26 

carefully, and add a cup of milk. When it again boils stir 
in a large piece of butter rubbed into two large spoonfuls of 
flour, salt, pepper and the oysters. Boil tAVO or three min- 
utes, and serve. 

Mint Sauce. 

Take the fresh green leaves of mint, and mince very fine. 
To two tablespoonfuls of mint add two teaspoonfuls of sugar 
and four tablesj^oonfuls of good vinegar. Serve imme- 
diately. 

Sauce for Wild Game. 

One wine-glass of currant jelly and two wine-glasses of 
port wine melted together; add a very little cayenne pepper 
and one half teaspoonful of salt. Pour the drippings of the 
roast over this. Put in the gravy boat a slice of lemon be- 
fore you put this in. 

Essence of Celery. 
Soak for a fortnight one half onnce of the seeds of celery 
in a quarter of a pint of nice brandy. A few drops will 
flavor a pint of soup equal to a head of celery. 

Gravy for Stews artd Hashes. 
One large onion, some whole pepper, a piece of bread 
toasted brown (not burned), and a dessert-spoonful of wal- 
nut catsup boiled in one pint of soup stock. 

A nice Brown Gravy. 
Three sliced onions fried brown in butter; a large, thin 
slice of bread toasted very brown (but not burned in the 
least). Stew these with auy pieces of meat, bone, etc., and 
some herbs, with water according to judgment, and stew 
until a thick gravy is produced. 



27 

Very nice gravies may be made by using clear beef or 
white stock, thickened with flour and seasoned with salt, 
pepioer, butter, and any herbs or roots that you desire. 



VEGETABLES. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 
Cut medium-sized tomatoes in two, but do not skin. Lay 
on a gridiron and broil for five minutes. Lay them, when 
done, on a platter, and add salt, pepper and butter to each 
one. 

JEscaloj)ed Tomato. 

Use fresh tomatoes, if you have them; if not, the canned 
fruit. Put in a deep dish a layer of tomatoes, then a layer 
of stale bread-crumbs broken quite small, a little salt, pep- 
per, butter, and a shred or two of onion. Fill the dish in 
this way, finishing oflP the top with a layer of crumbs. One 
very small-sized onion to a quart can of tomatoes is suffi- 
cient. 

Boiled rice used instead of bread-crumbs makes a much 
more delicate dish, still using, however, salt, pepper, butter 
and onion. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Cut cold potatoes a quarter of an inch thich; broil on a 
gridiron and season with salt, pepper and butter, and add, if 
you like, a little chopped parsley. 

Fr leasee of Potatoes. 
Cut cold potatoes into enough milk to cover; then add 
salt and pepper, and stew until they break into small pieces. 
When ready to serve, add a little butter. 



28 

Broivned Potatoes. 
If you have mashed potato left from the day before, it is 
very nice browned in the oven. Press the potato in cups to 
make them of a nice shape, and turn out on a buttered tin 
sheet. Smooth with a knife dipped in milk, and put in the 
oven to brown. 

Potatoes in Cream. 
Before new potatoes become plentiful, a very nice dish 
may be made by using the old potatoes (particularly small 
ones), paring them to a small size, boiling in water for fif- 
teen minutes with a teaspoonful of salt, then allowing them 
to diain and steam for ten minutes more. Then cover 
with nice cream, add more salt if needed, and cook for five 
minutes longer, or until they are thoroughly heated through. 

Fried Potatoes. 
Cut cold potatoes quite thin, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and fry of a nice brown in a little hot fat, adding a 
few shreds of onion if agreeable to the taste. 

To use up Gold Potatoes. 
The cold potatoes of the previous day may be used by 
dipping in ^%% and then in crumbs, frying in plenty of hot 
fat till nicely browned; then drained, sprinkled with salt and 
served. 

Potato Snow. 

Take nice white potatoes, put them on in cold water, and 
when they begin to break open, strain and put them in a 
clean pan before the fire until they fall in pieces. Kub 
through a sieve into the dish they are to be served in, being 
careful not to disturb them with a spoon. 



29 



Fried Potatoes. 
Take nice, smooth potatoes, wash clean, but do not pare, 
except on the top, sides, and bottom to make them of an 
even shape; cut lengthwise two or three times, and cut 
these slices again into strips the length of the potato and 
nearly half an inch in width and thickness. Have them as 
near as possible of the same size. Put into very cold water 
for several hours, and, when ready to use put in a colander 
to drain. Have ready boiling fat in a deep kettle, and drop 
into it the potatoes, turning them over a few times until 
evenly browned. Then take them from the kettle with a 
skimmer, lay on a clean napkin in a colander until the fat is 
thoroughly absorbed, when put into a dish ready to serve. 
Sprinkle with salt, after they are cooked. 

Boiled Rice. 
Boil a cupful in three large pints of water with a table- 
spoonful of salt. Do not stir if you wish the kernels whole. 
It is less trouble, and needs less care to cook in a kettle set 
in boiling water. Cook three hours. If used as a vegetable, 
press into cup-shape, and cither serve in a platter by itself 
or garnish the dish in which the mqat is laid. 

Corn Oysters. 
Grate six ears of young sweet-corn. Mix with the corn 
four eggs and two tablespoonfuls of flour beaten together, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Fry like oysters, dropping it in 
the hot fat by spoonfuls, the size of an oyster. 

Fried or Broiled Parsnips. 
Cook boiled parsnips as directed for fried or broiled 
potatoes. 



30 



Fried Bananas. 
Take off the sMn and cut lengthwise in two or three 
slices; fry of an even brown on a griddle rubbed over with 
nice sweet butter, and serve hot. 

Fai'snij) Fritters. 
To one pint of mashed parsnips add three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful butter, pepper, and salt, and sufficient flour to hold 
the mixture together. Make into little flat cakes, and fry in 
butter. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Indian Batter Calces. 

One quart of bolted Indian meal, one teacup of flour, one 
quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, four spoonfuls of good 
yeast and three eggs. Put the j^east and salt into the milk 
when quite warm, add the eggs, then stir in the flour and 
meal. Let it rise eight or ten hours, and if it sours add (Mie 
teaspoonful of soda. Cook like griddle cakes, and butter 
them while hot. 

Indian Griddle Calces. 

One quart of milk or water to one pint of Indian meal, 
three spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and a little salt. Cook 
on a buttered griddle. 

Indian Calce. 

One cup of Indian meal (not scalded), one cup of flour, 
one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda. Mix with cold water and bake in 
quick oven. 



31 

Indian Cake. 

One pint of sour milk, one cup of Indian meal, two cups 
of flour, one Qgg, a little sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
of soda; mix thoroughly and bake from twenty-five to thir- 
ty-five minutes. 

Brown Bread. 

Three cups of Indian meal, two cups of rye, one cup of 
flour, one cup of molasses, five cups of lukewarm water, 
three teaspoonfuls of saleratus dissolved in the water. 
Turn the water into the molasses, add other ingredients, and 
bake four hours in a covered vessel; set in a tin with an inch 
of water in it. 

Pone. 

One pint of milk, one pint of Indian meal scalded, one-half 
pint of flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda, a little salt. Beat 
for five minutes and bake. 

Western Corn Bread. 

Three cupfuls of flour, four cupfuls of corn-meal, two- 
thirds cupful of molasses, one ^g,g, one quart of sour milk, 
a little soda and salt. Steam three hours and then bake half 
an hour. 

Connecticut Corn Bread. 

Wet Indian meal with hoiling hot water enough to make 
a stifl" batter, add a little salt, spread smoothly over a pan 
half an inch thick, and bake in a hot oven. Baste with 
cream, if you have it, after it has been in the oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Bije Drop Cakes. 

One pint of vyQ meal, one pint of flour, two eggs, one 
tublespoonful of butter, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of 



32 



soda, two of cream tartar, milk enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Bake in earthen cu^ds. 

Hye Dro]) Cakes. 
Two cups of rye, one egg, one cnp of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, two of cream tartar, small bit of 
bntter. Mix with milk or water, as thick as for cake. Bake 
in cups. 

Rye Droj) Cakes. 

One ]3int of rye, one pint of flonr, one pint of sour milk, 
one heaping teaspoonful of soda, stirred into the milk, 
one-fourth cup of molasses. 

Rye Muffins. 
Two cups of flour, two of rye meal, one cup of yeast, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix Avith 
milk, pretty stiff*, and rise over night. In the morning add 
an Qg,^ and one teaspoonful of soda. 

Tliird Bread. 

One piut of rye meal, one of Indian meal, one of wheat 
flour, one-half cup of yeast. Mix with warm water into a 
stiff" dough, and set to rise eight hours. Bake in loaves or 
biscuit, but before mouldiug for the pans dip the hands in 
cold water. Bake forty minntes. 

Oraham Muffins. 
Three pints of Graham flour, one of white flour, one-half 
cup of yeast, one tablespoonful of brown sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little salt, warm water enough to make a 
stiff" batter. Mix at night, and bake in the morning, in rings 
for breakfast. 



33 

Graham Drop Cal-es. 
Make the same as for rye drop cakes. 

Oraliam Rolls. 
Two coffee cnps of sour milk; stir into it one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus, one of salt, half a cup of sugar, two eggs, 
one cup of flour, and Graham flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Bake in I'oll-pans, twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

Graham Bread. 
Two quarts of Graham flour (not sifted), one of wheat 
flour, half a cup of yeast, one spoonful of salt, half a cup of 
molasses, and warm water enough to make a stiff batter; 
knead thoroughly; rise in a warm place four hours. If you 
rise it over night, set in a cool place, as it sours very quickly. 
When risen sufSciently, mix with it a teaspoonful of saler- 
atus dissolved in warm water, and flour enough to shape into 
loaves. Put it in the pans and let it rise for half an hour; 
bake slowly an hour and a quarter. 

Yeast. 

One cup of flour, five potatoes, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one of sugar; pour over them boiling water; when cool add 
one-half cup of yeast; let it rise, and then bottle. 

IIoiJ Yeast. 

Boil and mash four large potatoes; dissolve two coffee- 
cups of flour and the potatoes in cold water; then pour in 
boiling water, and mix well. Put a handful of hops into a 
quart of boiling w^ater; let it stand half an hour, then strain 
into the potato and flour, and mix thoroughly. When luke- 
warm, put in one cup of white sugar, two table spoonfuls of 
salt, and a coffee-cupful of yeast. Let it rise over night. 



34 

Yeast Bread. 

Make a bole in the middle of four quarts of sifted flour, 
into which one spoonful of lard has been well rubbed; pour 
into this one eup yeast, one spoonful of salt, and one of sugar, 
if you like. Then mix one pint of cold milk or water with one 
pint of boiling water, and pour it on to the flour; knead 
thoroughly, and rise over night. In the morning knead 
again, make into loaves, rise one hour, and then put in the 
oven to bake for fifty minutes. If you wish biscuits in the 
morning, take part of the dough, mould into small cakes, 
put in a shallow pan, rise twenty-five minutes, and bake in a 
quick oven. Should you desire to have biscuits on the suc- 
ceeding morning without the trouble of mixing fresh bread, 
the dough already made will keep very nicely by being put 
away in an earthen dish in a cool place where it will rise 
but little. 

3l2(ffins. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, a pint of milk, butter 
size of an egg, one-half cent's worth of yeast, flour enough 
to make it quite stifl"; rise over night; in the moi'uing fill 
the rings, and put in a warm place to rise before baking. 

Mi/ffins. 
One-half pint of lukewarm milk, one-half pint of water, 
one egg, a teaspoonful of yeast, and a little sugar; mix with 
flour to the consistency of pound cake, and rise over night. 

3fufins. 
One quart of milk, one egg, piece of butter as large as an 
Qgg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half cup of j^east. 
Mix with floui", thi(;k enough to separate a little as you pour 
from the spoon; rise over night, and, just before baking, 
add one teaspoonful of soda. 



35 

Muffins. 
Three ciipfiils of flour, one-half cupful of butter, one and 
one-half cupfuls of milk, one tablespoouful of sugar, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda. 

Parher House Rolls. 
Two quarts of flour, piece of butter size of an q^^ rubbed 
into the flour, one cup of fresh yeast, one tablespoouful of 
sugar, one pint of cold boiled milk, and a little salt. Let it 
rise over night. In the morning knead and roll for flfteen 
minutes. Let it rise until two hours before baking; knead 
again, roll thin and cut out round, butter one-half, and double 
over; set in the pans and allow room to rise. 

Tea Cctke. 
One quart of flour, one pint of milk, two small table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, two eggs, a piece of butter, one 
heaping teaspoonful of cream tartar, one even spoonful of 
soda and a little salt. 

Waffles. 
Four eggs, one quart of milk, one-quarter of pound of 
butter, a little salt, flour enough to* make a batter; heat irons 
and bake quickly. 

Waffles. 
Two quarts of flour, two eggs, piece of butter size of an 
e^g, a little salt, four teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, sweet 
milk enough to make a light batter. 

Cream Tartar Biscuit. 
One quart of sifted flour, butter the size of an Q^<r, a little 
salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar; put into the flour one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little water; roll out, cut out the biscuit, 
and bake in a quick oven. 



86 



Tea CaJce. 
Three cupfuls of flour, mix in two tenspooiifuls of cream 
tarta]-, two cupfuls of sugar, and a piece of butter size of an 
egg; break three eggs in the flour without beating, add one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk; mix with milk, as 
thick as hasty pudding; beat quickly and bake immediately. 

Berry Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, a piece of butter size 
of an ^^^^, one small tenspoonful of soda, two of ci'eam tar- 
tar, one quart of berries (carefully picked over, washed and 
drained), flour enough to make it of a proper consistency. 

Sally Luns. 

A quart of flour, a piece of butter size of an ^gg, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, two teacups of milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartai-, one of saleratns, and a little 
salt. 

Put the cream of tartar, salt, and sugar into the flour, add 
the eggs, then butter melted, and one cup of milk; dissolve 
the saleratns in the remaining cup, and stir all together. 

Strawherry Short Cale. 
One quai"t of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream 
tartar, butter size of an egg', mix with milk very soft, and 
bake quickly; split in two or three parts; butter one of the 
parts, sprinkle sugar on, put in a layer of strawberries, and 
cover slightly with milk or cream ; lay on the other ])art and 
sprinkle fine sugar on top. 

Buchwheat Cal:es. 
One quart of buckwheat, one tablespoonful of salt, little 
less than one-half cup of yeast, three pints of warm water; 



37 

rise over night, and in the morning add one teaspoonful of 
soda. 

Griddle Calces. 

Two cnps of sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratns dis- 
solved in a little water, a little salt, one Qg^^, and flour 
enough to pour; grease the griddles with butter, and fry the 
cakes a light brown. 

Rice Griddles. 

Boil a teacupful of i*ice until thoroughly dissolved; drain 
it and mash to a paste in half a pint of warm milk; beat 
four eggs until very light, and sift into them a tablespoonful 
flour; stir this into the rice and milk; sprinkle in a little 
salt, and beat well together; fry on a hot buttered griddle; 
butter each cake, and sprinkle with fine white sugar; serve 
hot. 

Rice Griddles. 

Two cups of sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratns dis- 
solved in Avater, two eggs, one cup of boiled rice, a little 
salt, and flour enough to pour. 

Bread Griddles. 
Stale bread will make very nice griddles. Dissolve it in 
milk, add an agg, salt and saleratns, and a little flour enough 
to hold them together. Mix thoroughly so that there may 
be no lumps. 



MUSH. 

Boiled Rice. 
Make for mush as given in the receipt for boiled rice as a 
vegetable. It is very nice boiled and poured into a deep 



38 

dish, and allowed to cool ; then cut in slices and fried on 
a griddle greased with butter. Eat with syrup. 

Cracked Wheat. 
Put a pint of cracked wheat to soak in cold water, stir it 
well, let it settle for half an hour, and then pour off the 
water. Then put it on to cook in a little over a quart of 
boiling water with a little salt. It is better to put the vessel 
in which it is cooked in a kettle of boiling watei", as it is less 
likely to bui'u. Cook slowly six or seven hours, in order 
that it may become thoroughly soft. If wanted for breakfast, 
cook the day before, and put on the stove to heat for half an 
hour or more in the morning. It is very nice fried as 
directed for boiled rice. 

Hominy. 
Take a pint of hominy, put it to soak in cold water, stir it 
well and let it settle for half an hour, then pour off the 
water. Put to boil in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water, 
add a little salt, and cook for six or seven hours. The very 
coarse hominy requires even longer. Coarse hominy is veiy 
nice used as a vegetable with roast beef or mutton. Hominy 
left over is nice sliced and fried in butter. 

Oatmeal. 
Into two quarts of boiling water stir a pint of oatmeal 
wet with cold water, and a spoonful of salt. Cook in a pail 
set in a kettle of boiling water, and boil three or four hours. 
The coarse Scotch oatmeal is the nicest. 

Indian Meal. 
Make as given in the receipt for oatmeal mush. If you 
wish to cut into slices and fry, it may need a little more 



39 

than a pint of meal to thicken it. After it is coolvcd, pour 
it into a deep dish, and in the morning cnt into slices an 
inch thick, and fry brown in pork fat. Eat with syrup. 



CAKE. 

Raisin Cake. 



One cup of molasses, one of butter, one of milk, three 
of flour, two of chopped raisins, and one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Spices to your taste. Soften the butter, and 
beat it and the molasses together; then add milk, and then 
the flour in which the saleratus is mixed, and lastly the 
raisins. Bake in two loaves, in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

One and one-half cup of sugar, three eggs, one-half cup 
of cold Avater, one half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream 
tartar, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of milk, large half- 
cup of butter, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half of soda; one grated cocoanut. 

Lemon Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths of butter, one of milk, 
three and one-half of flour, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one of soda; the grated rind of a lemon and 
one half of the juice. 



40 

Tea Cake. 
One Clip of sugar, one-half of butter, one of milk, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonfnl of cream tartar in 
thi'ee cups of flour. Bake quicklj^ To be eaten hot. 

Magic Cake. 
One-half cup of butter, one of sugar, one and one-half of 
flour, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoon 
of cream tartar, one-half of soda. 

Tea Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one-half of milk, two of flour, one e^^, 
one teaspoonfnl of cream tartai-, one half of soda, and piece 
of butter size of an Q^^. Salt and spice to the taste. 

Pound Cake. 
One goblet of powdered sugar (sifted), one small goblet 
of butter, chopped fine, one and a half goblets of sifted 
flour, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Small 
bit of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of milk. JN^o flavor- 
ing. Work butter and sugar to a cream with the hand; add 
3^olks of eggs with whites, add the floui", and, last of all, the 
soda. Bake in fifteen little pans, holding less than a gill 
each. Cool on a sieve, till the cake cleaves from the pans at 
the sides. Frost if you like. 

Dried Ajjple Cake. 
Two and one-fourth cups of flour, one-half cup of sour 
milk, one of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one Qg^^, 
small ])iece of butter, one cup of dried apples soaked over 
night, and stirred in when the cake is made. Salt and spice 
to taste. 



41 

Berwicl' Sjioyige Cake. 
Beat six eggs two minutes, add three cnps of sugar and 
beat five minutes, then two cups of flour with two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar sifted into it, and beat two minutes. 
Then add one cuj^ of water with a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in it, and beat one minute; then two more cups of 
flour, and beat two minutes. A little salt, the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon. 

Prairie Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, three of 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
of soda. 

Finger Biscuit. 

Break four eggs into a dish, add a small teaspoonful of 
volatile salt, and beat ten minutes; then add one pound of 
loaf sugar, beat well together; add one pound of flour, little 
at a time; roll out the size of your little finger. Bake on 
flat tins. Flavor with almond or vanilla, and sprinkle with 
sugar before baking. 

Wehster Cake. 
One-half cup of butter, two of sugar, one of molasses, five 
of floui-, one-half of milk, wine, or cold w^ater, fom* eggs. 
One teaspoonful of soda, two of cloves, two of mace, two of 
cinnamon, two nutmegs, two pounds of currants, one of 
citron. Will keep for three months. 

Lady's Cake. 
One-half cup of l)utter, one and one-half of sugar, two- 
thirds of milk, two and one-half of flour, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, one of soda. 



42 

^fountain Cake. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pouud of 
butter, five eggs, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one gill of brandy. 

Budget Cctke. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two cups of 
flour, one-half cup of milk, whites of two eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, one of cream tartar. Frost, and 
flavor with almonds. 

Tumhler Cake. 
Two tumblers of sugar, one of sour milk, four of flour, 
one-half cup of butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salera- 
tus. Flavor to taste. It is very nice, if currants or citron 
are added. 

Railroad Cake. 
Three cups of flour, two of sugar, one of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream tartar. 

Telegra'pli Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour (sifted), two eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half of soda, and a little salt. 

Coffee Cake. 
One cup of molasses, one cup of cofl*ee, one of sugar, one 
of raisins, two-thirds of butter, five of flour, two teaspoou- 
fuls of cream tartar, one of soda, one each of difterent spices. 



43 

Osgood CaTce. 
One cnp of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, one of sour 
milk, one of raisins stoned and chopped, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one nut- 
meg, one wine-glass of brandy. 

Fruit Ccike. 
Five cups of flour, one and one-half of butter, two of 
sugar, one and one-half of molasses, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one pound of currants, one of citron, 
one of raisins, one gill of milk, one glass of wine ; spices to 
suit. 

Tea Cahe. 
One quart of flour, one pint of milk, one cup of sugar, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. 

Silver Cake. 
One-half cup of butter, one of sugar, one-half of milk, two 
of flour, whites of four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salera- 
tus, two-thirds of cream tartar. Flavor with almond. 

Oold CaJce. 

Make the same as silver cake, using the yolks of the eggs 
instead of the whites. Flavor with lemon. 

Oujj Cake. 
Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus. Very nice 
cake can be made by dividing the receipt and flavoring one 
part with confectioner's ginger, and to the other part adding 
raisins and a little spice. 



44. 

Poor Man^s Cake. 
Four eggs and two cups of sugar, beaten fifteen minutes, 
three cups of flour, one of milk, one teaspoonful soda, two 
of cream tartar; beat twenty minutes; flavor as you please, 
and bake in quick oven. 

Cream Cakes. 
One pint of water, one-half pound of butter, three-fourths 
pound of flour, ten eggs; boil the water and butter together; 
stir in the flour while boiling, then let it cool, and add the 
eggs, well beaten, with a small teaspoonful of soda; drop 
them on tins, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Cream for the Cakes. 
One cup of flour, two cupfuls of sugar, one quart of milk, 
four eggs. Boil the milk, beat the eggs, sugar and flour 
together, and stir into the milk while boiling, until it 
thickens; season it. When the cakes are baked, open them 
and fill them with cream. 

Cottage Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one agg, one pint of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar, one of soda. 

Filling. — Three sticks of chocolate, grated and mixed 
with milk; let it thicken on the stove, and when cold place 
between the cake. 

Charlotte Cake. 
Two cups of flour, one of sugar, three-fourths of milk, 
two eggs, small teaspoonful of soda, large one of cream tar- 
tar, one of cinnamon, butter size of an Qgg. Beat sugar 



45 



and egg together; dissolve the soda and cream tartar in 
milk; melt the butter, and add last. To be eaten warm for 
tea. 

Charlotte I^usse. 
One quart of cream, whipped stiff; one-half box of Cox's 
gelatine, dissolved in one-half of a pint of milk; stir until 
perfectly dissolved; then beat three eggs and one-half pound 
of sugar together, add the gelatine, stirring all the while; 
flavor with vanilla and one small glass of brandy. Add the 
cream, whip all together, and pour into moulds lined with 
thin slices of sponge cake, or with sponge fingers, and set 
in a cool place. 

Chocolate Cal'e. 
One-fourth cup butter, coftee-cup of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, five eggs, reserving 
the whites of three, one teaspoonfid cream tartar, one-half of 
soda, one of vanilla. 

Frosting for Chocolate Cake. 
One and one-half cups sugar, whites of three eggs. Beat 
thoroughly and divide into two parts; mix with one part 
one-fourth pound of chocolate; spread on the cake and put 
in the oven to harden, and afterwards spread on the white 
frosting, and harden. 

Railroad CaTce. 
One cup of sugar, one-half of milk, one and one-half of 
flour, two tablespoonfnls of buttei-, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, one-half of saleratus. Flavor with 
lemon. 



46 

Connecticut Loaf Cctke. 
Two pounds of light dough, one pound of sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, three eggs, spice, brandy, citron, currants 
and I'aisins. Rub the butter and sugar together, and the 
dough; then add the other ingredients. Let it rise before 
baking. It is very nice frosted. 

Coohies. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, one quart of flour, one 
egg, two tablespoonfuls milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one of cream tartar. 

Coohies. 
One cup of sugar, one of milk, two eggs, piece of butter 
size of an egg, a little nutmeg, three teaspoonfuls yeast 
powder. 

Wine Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, four eggs, a very little 
soda, and just as little flour as will serve to make it stifl:' 
enough to roll. Bake brown in a quick oven. These are 
exceedingly nice if great care is taken in rolling out and 
baking. 

Seed Cakes. 

Two and one-half cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
six of flour, one of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, and 
caraway seeds. 

Doughnuts. 
One-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sour milk, one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, nutmeg, flour to make it stifl' enough to roll. 



47 

Doughnvis. 

One pint of flour, half a cup of sngar, one spoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half of saleratus, 
two eggs, nutmeg, and milk enough to roll. 

Doughnuts. 
Two and oue-balf cups sugar, two of sour milk, two eggs, 
butter size of an e^g, one nutmeg, a little salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda, and flour enough to make it easy to roll. 

Doughnuts. 
Two cups sugar, two cups milk, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two of cream tartar, flour enough to roll. 

Sponge Gingerbread. 
Mix with one pint of molasses a piece of butter size of an 
Q^g, add one quart of flour, one teaspoonful ginger, and a 
heaping teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a tumbler of 
milk. Bake in a quick oven, on flat tins. Koll one half an 
inch thick. 

Molasses Gingerhread. 
Two cups of molasses; dissolve in that a heaping tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. Heat hot two-thirds of a cup of lard or 
beef drippings, and pour upon the molasses, and stir until it 
foams, then add a cup and a half of cold water, and flour 
enough to make it as stiff* as you can stir easily with a 
spoon. Add ginger, and a little salt. By omitting the 
ginger, and using spices and chopped raisins, you will get a 
very good raisin cake. 



48 

3Iolasses Gingerhread. 
Three cnpfuls of molasses, one and a half eupfuls of sour 
milk or water, one-half cnpful of butter, three teaspoonfuls 
of soda, two eggs, a little ginger, and flour. 

Hard Oingerhread. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, one Qg^, 
one teaspoonfal ginger, one of soda, two of cream tartar. 
Flour enough to roll thin. Bake in hot oven. 

Sugar Gingerhread. 
Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
one ^^^^ two tablespoonfuls ginger, one teaspoonful soda, 
flour enough to roll. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of sugar, one of molasses, one-half of butter or 
nice beef shortening, one-half of boiling water, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, three of ginger; flour enough to roll. 



PASTRY. 

Lemon Pie. 
Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, six eggs, 
reserving the whites of four. Beat well together, then add 
the juice of two or three lemons, and spread on pastry. Set 
in the oven until the pastiy is cooked. To the white of the 
four eggs, beaten very stiff, add six tablespoonfuls 'of pow- 
dered sugar; beat again until very stifl', spread over the pie, 
and put in the oven to brown. 



49 

Ltemon Pie. 
Soak a pounded cracker in one pint of new milk; stir into 
this the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs, which 
have been beaten with half a cup of sugar and the rind and 
juice of one lemon; spread on the pastry and bake half an 
hour. When cooked, add the frosting made with the white 
of one ki^<g and a large spoonful of sugar, spread over the 
pie, and brown in the oven. 

Lemo7i Pie. 
Wet one tablespoonful of corn starch with one cup of hot 
water; alter cooling add the yolks of four eg^^^i, grated rind 
and juice of one and one-half lemons, and one cup of sugar. 
Beat thoroughly and spread it on pastry, and put in the 
oven to bake. To the whites of the four eggs beaten very 
stiff, add six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; beat again 
till stitf, spread over the pie and brown. 

Cream Pie. 
Three eggs beaten with one and one-half cups of sugar, 
half a cup of cold water, two cups of flour, in which are 
mixed one teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream tartar. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Fi ling for Cream Pie. 
One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
flour, two eggs; put the kettle in which the milk is, in 
another of hot water. Beat the sugar, flour and eggs 
together until they are light and smooth, and when the milk 
boils stir in with one teaspoonful of salt. Cook twenty 
minutes, stirring often. Flavor with lemon. 



50 



Cream Pie. 
One ciipfnl of sugar, one cnpfnl of flour, tlii'ee eggs, one 
teaspooiiful of cream tartar in the dry flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of milk. Flavor 
to taste. 

Filling for the Pie. 
One-half pint of boiled milk, tw^o eggs, one cupful of 
sugar, one-half cupful of flour. Beat all together, and stir 
into the boiling milk. Flavor to taste. 

Washington Pie. 
Make the outside the same as for cream pie, and fill with 
any kind of jelly or jam you choose. 

Mince Pie. 
To four pounds of chopped meat add eight of chopped 
apple, two of chopped suet, two of chopped raisins, four of 
sugar, five quarts of cider, one pint of molasses, one half 
pint of brandy, one cupful of salt, four nutmegs, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground cloves, two of cinnamon, and one of 
allspice. Mix thoroughly with the hands, then turn into the 
mixture the five quarts of cider, and let it stand over night. 
In the morning thoroughly scald the mixture, then put in a 
stone pot, and when cold cover tightly, and set in a cool, dry 
place. To tell the exact amount of ingredients would be 
almost impossible, but with a little judgment, and the rule 
above given, there could not be any serious trouble. 

Mince Pie. 
Three pounds of meat, after it is boiled, three pounds of 
suet, chopped fine, six pounds of apples, three of raisins, 



" 51 

three of currants, one of citron, two of sugar, one quart of 
brandy, one quart of nice cidei-, two teaspoonfuls each of 
mace, allspice, ciuuaman, one of cloves, two of nutmegs, 
grated rind of three lemons, one-half teacupful of salt. 
Sweeten with molasses. It will probably be necessary to 
add more cider than the quantity named. 



PUDDINGS. 

Queen of Puddings. 

Soak one large pint of bread crumbs in one quart of milk, add 
a piece of butter size of a wabiut, mixed with one cup of 
sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Add the gi-ated rind of 
one lemon, and a little salt. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, add one cup of 
fine white sugar and the juice of the lemon. Beat again, 
until it becomes stiff. When the pudding is cold spread 
over it a layer of currant jelly, then the frosting; put in the 
oven, and brown. Serve with cream, if desired. It is very 
nice cold. 

Cottage Pudding. 
One cup of sugar, one of sweet milk, two of flour, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one Qg^, two small tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, and one of soda. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

Three small tablespoonfuls of maizena, yolks of five eggs, 
beaten with four tablespoonfuls of sugar; mix the maizena 



with a little cold milk, and stir in a qnart of milk jnst before 
it boils; then stir in the yolks and sugar. Boil until it 
begins to thicken; then pour into a buttered pndding-dish, 
and set in the oven a few moments to harden. Beat the 
whites of the five eggs to a stiff froth, with five tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Spread over the pudding, and brown in the 
oven. Serve cold. 

Snow Pudding. 
Pour one quart of boiling water on three good-sized 
sheets of isinglass; add the juice of one lemon and two cups 
of sugar; strain aud place on ice over night; in the morning 
beat up the whites of three eggs and stii" into the jelly; put 
on the ice again till needed. Make a custard of the yolks of 
the four eggs, one quart of milk, sufficient sugar to SAveeten 
it, and a little salt; when cool pour over the pudding. 
Flavor the custard with vanilla. 

Pop Overs. 
Two cups of flour, two of milk, two eggs, butter melted 
size of a walnut, and a little salt; butter the cups, fill half 
full, and bake in a quick oven. 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart milk, four eggs, six tablespoonfnls flour, and a 
little salt; bake twent}'' minutes in a hot oven. 

Bird^s Nest Pudding. 
Pare and cook six large apples; make a syrup of one 
quart of water and one cup of sugar; simmer the apples in 
this till they are tender; lay in a deep dish and pour over 
them a custard made of one quart of milk, five eggs, and 
three spoonfuls of sugar; bake until the custard is hard. 



53 

8u7iderlands. 
Beat to a froth six eggs; mix gradually one quart of milk 
with one cup of flour; stir in the eggs and one teaspoonful 
of salt; bake twenty minutes. 

Tcqjioca Padding. 
Four tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked in a little water, 
one quart of milk; when it boils, add the yolks of three 
eggs, with sugar, salt, and the tapioca; wlien it thickens 
spoon into a dish and cool; frost with the whites of the 
eggs, and brown. 

Tapioca Padding. 
One cup of tapioca soaked, one quart of milk, four eggs, 
sugar, salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Virginia Padding. 

A pint and a half of milk, reserving a little to mix with 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, the yolks of three eggs, and 
the white of one Qgg', boil the milk, and stir in the eggs and 
flour; bake half an hour. "When cold beat up the whites of 
two eggs with half a cup of sugar, the juice and rind of a 
lemon, a little wine, and pour over the pudding before 
sei'ving. 

Troy Padding. 

One and one-half cups of sour milk, three and one-half 
of flour, one of suet, one of chopped raisins, one of molasses, 
one teaspoonful saleratus, one of cloves, one of allspice, one 
of cinnamon; steam three hours. 

Black Padding. 
One-half cup of butter, one of molasses, one of milk, four 
of flour, one of currants, one teaspoonful soda, two of cloves; 
boil four hours. 



54 



Bread Pudding. 
Souk stale bread in milk or water for an hour or two, then 
mix with the hands until perfectly smooth and even; add 
one i^gg, a small piece of butter, salt, and molasses enough to 
sweeten it; a whole nutmeg or other spices, a cupful or 
more of raisins and other fruits if you wish; make it very 
wet, adding considerable miik or water; bake three or four 
hours in a slow oven. 

Balced Indian Pudding. 
Boil one quart of milk, add six tablespoonfuls of Indian- 
meal moistened with a little milk; when it thickens pour into 
a deep dish, add one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
salt. Before you put into the oven, add a pint more of cold 
milk, but do not stir it. Bake three or four hours. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Hot Sauce. 

Four tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two of butter, one of 
flour. Beat to a cream, then add white of an Qgg beaten 
stiff, and pour a gill of boiling water* on it, stirring very 
fast. Flavor as you please. 

Sour Gream Sauce. 

One cup of brown sugar, a cup and a half of sour cream. 
Beat five or six minutes and grate nutmeg over it. N^ice for 
boiled puddings. 

Wine Sauce. 

One Qgg, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of com 
starch, beaten to a cream, with half a wine-glass of wine. 
Add a little boiling water, stirring very fast. 



Wine Sauce. 
Yolks of two eggs, and one cup of sugar, beaten to a 
cream. Add the whites after cutting to a froth, then one- 
half glass of wine. 

Hot Sauce. 
One egg, one cup of sugar, and a small piece of butter 
beaten thoroughly. Then add one tablespoonful corn 
starch, cooked with water, and allowed to cool before mix- 
ing with egg and sugar. Pour over the whole a little 
boiling water. Flavor as you please. 

Hot Sauce. 
Two cups sugar, tAvo eggs beaten to a froth, pour in a 
little boiUng milk and flavor with brandy. 

Cold Sauce. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to a 
cream; flavor as you please. 

Cold Sauce. 
One egg and a cup of sugar. Beat the yolks to a froth. 
Add sugar, and beat until dissolved; then add cold milk 
and wine, gradually stirring it in. Beat the whites and place 
on top. 

Hot Sauce. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar beaten to a cream, one 
cuj) of boiling milk. Flavor with wine. 

Hot Sauce. 
Two cups of white sugar, one pint of water, one spoonful 
of flour. Boil all together; add butter size of an egg, and 
flavor. 



5(j 



Hot Sauce. 



Cup of sugar and a tablespoonful of butter, thoroughly 
mixed. Then stir iu a wiue-ghiss of wine, and just before 
serving add a pint of boiling water, and stir fast until 
frothy. 



DESSERTS. 

Charlotte Blanc Mange. 
Four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, two of grated choco- 
late, and a little salt, wet with cold milk and stirred into one 
quart of boihng milk. Cook five minutes and pour into a 
mould. 

Iced Fruit. 
Take fine bunches of currants on the stalk, dip them in 
beaten whites of eggs, lay them on a sieve and sift fine 
white sugar over them, and set in a place to dry. 

Velvet Cream. 
Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a tumbler of wine. Add 
the peel and juice of one lemon, sugar, to one quart of 
cream. Put in a mould to cool. 

Italian Cream. 

One pint of cream mixed with six ounces of powdered 
sugar and the juice of two lai'ge lemons. Add to it two 
glasses of white wine and another pint of cream, and mix 
thoroughly. Boil two ounces of isinglass with four small 
cups of water until it is reduced one-half; then stir it luke- 
warm into the cream and pour into moulds. 



57 

Madeira Cream. 

Beat together six eggs and one-half cup of sugar, and 
l)oar into boihng milk. Stir till cooked. Then take two 
dozen ladies'-nngers, spread with preserves, and soak in 
sherry wine and brandy. Lay in a dish, and just before 
serving pour over them the custard. 

Ta'pioca Cream. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night in one pint of cold 
water. Boil one quart of milk. Stir in the tapioca with the 
yolks of three eggs and one cup of sugar well beaten, and a 
pinch of salt, and just scald. When taken from the fire stir 
in the whites beaten to a froth. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Grate one ounce chocolate, add it to one quart boiling 
milk and boil until smooth; then add four eggs (reserving 
the whites of three), and one-half cup of sugar. Stir two 
or three minutes and remove from the fire. One cup of 
thick cream, whites of three eggs and a little sugar; flavor 
and whip to a froth, and when the custard is cold put in 
glasses with the cream on top. 

Soft Custard. 

Put one quart of milk into a pail, and set the pail into a 
kettle of boiling water. Beat four eggs, sugar enough to 
sweeten, and a little salt together, and stir into the milk. 
Stir constantly until it thickens, when remove from the fire 
and turn into a deep bowl. Flavor with vanilla and serve 
in glasses. 



58 



SnoiohaU Custard. 
Make as directed for soft custard, using six eggs instead 
of four, and reserving the whites of four; beat them to a 
stiff froth, drop into clear boiling water, boil two minutes 
and skim out; let it drain, and when the custard is put into 
glasses heap this on top. 

Balked Custard. 
Four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of sngar, one quart of 
milk, and a little salt. Fill the cups, grate a little nutmeg 
over them, and set in a pan filled with warm water. Bake 
in a moderate oven till they ai-e hard in the centre. 

Apiole Snoiv. 

Pare and quarter six tart apples, steam until very tender, 
press through a coarse sieve and cool. When cold add the 
grated rind and juice of two lemons, one cup of sugar, and 
the whites of four eggs. Beat all to a froth, and serve 
immediately. 

Tijjsy Parson. 

Cut into squares stale sponge cake, . stick into them 
blanched almonds, and pour over them wine. When the 
cake has absorbed the wine, pour over it soft custard. A 
very* nice dessert can be made by omitting the almonds 
and wine, and simply using the cake and custard. 



DIET LISTS, OR BILLS OF FARE, 



FIRST DAY. 



BREAKFAST. 



Coffee. Cold Beef's Heart (sliced) , 

Graham Rolls. Cold Bread. 

Pickles. Oatmeal Porridge. 



DINNER 



Soup (consomme). 

03'ster Patties. . Roast Mutton. 

Boiled Potatoes. Boiled Maccaroni. 

Bananas. Chocolate. 



LUNCH (next day). 

Sliced Roast Mutton. Cold Graham Rolls. 

Potato Salad. 



TEA OR SUPPER. 

Cold Potatoes (toasted and buttered). Cold Mutton. 
Tea Buns. White Toast. 

Tea. 



SECOND DAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cocoa. 
Oyster Patties. * Fried Bananas. 

Rye Muffins. White Bread. 

Indian-meal Mush. 



60 



DINNER. 

Puree a la Saxe. 
Fried Smelts a la Tartare. 
Baked Calf's Liver. Scalloped Tomato. 

Potato Snow. 
Oranges. Troy Pudding (hot sauce). 

Tea t\ la Russe. 

LUNCH (next clay). 

Cold Calf's Liver. Buttered Toast. 

Pickled Gherkins. 

TEA OR SUPPER. 

Toasted Muffins. Broiled Digby Herring. 

Buttered Graham Toast. 
Lemon Cake. Coftee. 



THIRD D A Y . 

BREAKFAST. 

Coffee. 
Broiled Tripe. Plain Lobster. 

Connecticut Corn Bread. Cold Bread. 

Melon. 

DINNER. 

Julienne Soup. 
Fricasseed Veal. Boiled Rice. 

Baked Potatoes. Apple Fritters. 

Bread Pudding (cold sauce). 
Cocoa. 

LUNCH (next clay). 
Veal Loaf. Dry Toast. 

Dressed Lettuce. Toasted Bread Pudding. 

TEA OR SUPPER. 

Chipped Smoked Beef. Toasted Corn Bread. 

Parker House Rolls. 
Cookies. Tea. 



61 



FOURTH DAY. 



Raised Biscuit. 
Cole Slaw. 



Potatoes and Cream 
Boiled Squash, 
Taylor Pudding. 



BREAKFAST. 

Buttermilk, 
Cracked Wheat. 

DINNER. 

Barley Soup. 



Curried Veal. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 



Coffee. 
LUNCH (next day). 
Breast of Turkey, on Toast. Rolls. 

Connecticut Loaf Cake. 



Roast Turkey. 
Cranberry Sauce. 
Dressed Celery. 



TEA OR SUPPER. 



Tea. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 



Gingerbread. 



Pickled Oysters. 
Cold Bread. 



FIFTH DAY 



Broiled Kidneys. 
Fried Potatoes, 



BREAKFAST 

Chocolate, 



Pears, 



Graham Biscuit. 
Hominy. 



Curried Lobster, 
Boiled Parsnips. 
Grapes. 



DINNER. 

Ox-tail Soup. 



Boiled Potatoes. 
Boiled Beets. 
Coffee. 



LUNCH (next clay). 
Ox-tail Soup. Grapes. 

Bread. 



62 



TEA OR SUPPER . 

Ham Rasher. Indian Cake. 

Cold Bread. Fried Parsnij 

Tea. 



SIXTH DAY. 

B RE AKFA ST. 

Coffee. 

Vegetable Salad. 
Muffins. Oatmeal Porridge. 

Broiled Salt Herrings. 

DINNER. 

Soup a la Vienne. 
Oysters (on blazer). Steamed Beef. 

Boiled Potatoes. Boiled Rice. 

Apples. Cottage Pudding. 

Tea. 

LUNCH (next day) . 

Cold Steamed Beef. Fried Rice. 

Berries and Milk. 

TEA OR SUPPER . 
Broiled Smoked Salmon. Toasted Muffins. 

Cold Bread. Mixed Cake. 

Shells. 



SEVENTH DAY. 



BREAKFAST 



Coffee. 
Fried Scollops, Tartare Sauce. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Brown Bread. 

Oranges. 



63 



DI NNE R . 

Clam Chowder. 
Baked Beef's Heart. Shaker Apple Sauce. 

Bilked Potatoes. Boiled Parsnips. 

Tea a la Rnsse. 

LUNCH (next day). 
Fried Parsnips. Broiled Breakfast Bacon. 

Apples. 

TEA O R SUPPER . 

Baked Omelette. Brown Bread Toast. 

Broiled Tomatoes. Budget Cake. 

Chocolate. 



DOVER STAMPING COMPANY, 

BOSTON. 



THE DOVER EGG BEATER, 

l»ateiitocl :vray 31, IHrO. 

The peculiar arrange- 



It takes but 

32 SECONDS 



to beat the whites of six 
eggs so perfectly that the 
bowl may be turned upside 
down without a particle 
falling from the mass. 




ment of the 

DOUBLE FLOATS, 

interlacing each other, 
OONOENTEATES AND 
CUTS the egg in a manner 
never before obtained ; do- 
ing its work with wonder- 
ful rapidity, without scat- 
tering the article beaten, 



The only ABSOLUTELY PERFECT EGG BEATER 

made, and is warranted to be so. MONE\^ REFUNDED if a trial does not prove this. 

Properly Beaten or Aerated, a SINGLE EGG will perform the office of THREE or FOUR 
PARTIALLY done. 

REMEMBER the DOVER BEATER has TWO Revolving Bands or Floats, whieli 
turn in a fixed wire frame. Notice the two small cogwiieels in the cut. Don't be 
deceived into buying a worthless imitation, having but one revolving beater, whicli 
serves only to set the egg in motion in one direction, and does not beat it. Observe 
that tlie imitation has but one small cogwheel. Buy only the warranted arjcle. Wlien 
it fails to do as we say, send it back and receive tlie amount paid for it. 



DOVER C^IvE BEATER 



Patent Applied For. 



Tliis Most Valuable Article recently invented by a lady, prominent in 
SOCIETY, and of long and thorough practical experience, to meet 

AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY 

in lier kitchen, — will commend itself to every intelligent mistress of a house. 

For Beating Cakk, Sauces, Salad Cream and Frosting — or in frying Pota- 
toes, Doughnuts, &c., and removing them from the kettle — it has no equal. It has a 
REAL practical VALUE, and should be in every kitchen. 

DOVER STAMPING CO., 

BOSTON. 



SUGGESTIONS 



Culinary Chemistry 



May good digestion wait on appetite, 
And health on both," 

— Macbeth. 



PRINTED FOR THE FAIR. 



*^ B O S T O N : 
ROCKWELL & CHURCHILL, PRINTERS, 

122 Washington SxREtex. 
18 74. 



ifllH^ 



> > ^>.:3^^z> ^ ^oc 



":>3^.o ^Tijgw; :»■>': 



•>-4w ■"!>'->. ^ 



~>> ■ ^ ■!!> 


I^B* 


)"~!» ~> I^' 


^^y 


~3D9 - 15-"^^ 


J3^ 


)~TjJ> ^ 3i) 


,"j^ 


■ .) I3i» ■ ^ I^ 


^J^ 


■j~~>il* D I^ 


"J^ 


-)— T|jjp D I> _!2 


]^^ 


>Z*t' ■> > -^ 


» 




» 


j>»>' >::> ^jy- 


_> 


"Tm >J> -^^^ 


i* 


I3P* -^ -^ -^^^ 




~-w^ ^ J) !^^^ 


5^ 


:^ >^^^ 


y. 


» >i) :»^ 


, ')^% 



sW 







''ifilii 

•JliUiJIIIj 



